THE TARTAN
urne 85, Issue 21Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania8 April 1991
Pavine tribute....
Josn Freeman/1 artan fJnoto stair Manager
CMU students participate in a funeral service for Air Force First Lieutenant 
Jorge Arteaga, who was killed February 2 in a B-52 bomber crash in the 
Indian Ocean. The service was held Saturday morning in Mt. Lebanon, Penn. 
Arteaga attended CMU before obtaining a degree from Pitt.
Zimmerman wins national title
By JASON McDONALD
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
At the NCAA Division III National 
Championships, held March 2123 at 
Emory University, junior ECE major Brian 
Zimmerman secured his place in the Car
negie Mellon record books by becoming 
the first national champion in school his
tory.
By earning All-American honors six 
times in his first two years at Carnegie 
Mellon, Zimmerman had already estab
lished himself as one of the top swimmers 
in school history.
I didnt really expect to win, said 
Zimmerman. I came into the finals seeded 
fifth, so I was looking for a third-place 
finish.
Zimmerman won national champion
ships in the 200- and 500-yard freestyle 
events and was also named the Most 
Outstanding Performer of the meet. His 
winning times of 1:41.09 and 4:34.08 in 
the respective events were both school 
records.
Overall, Zimmerman earned AllAmerican status in four events; in addi
tion to the 200- and 500-yard races, 
Zimmermans fifth-place time of 16:08.19
in the 1,650-yard freestyle, and the twelfthplace, 7:01.83 performance of the 800-yard 
freestyle relay team, brought Zimmermans 
All-American total to 10, a Carnegie Mel
lon record. Zimmerman swam the anchor 
leg of the relay; freshmen Jean Paul Lie 
and Todd Vandall and junior Norman 
Murray were the other members of the 
team.
Zimmermans other All-American 
awards came from the 200,500, and 1,650 
in his freshman and sophomore years.
Despite the national championship, 
Zimmerman feels that theres room for 
Please see ZIMMERMAN, page 14
GSIA breaks ground May 17
By DAVID LADEK
Tartan News Editor
Carnegie Mellon has set the 
groundbreaking for the new wing of the 
Graduate School of Industrial Adminis
tration building for May 17.
The addition will about double the space 
available in the GSIA building; construc
tion for the $14.5 million wing should be 
complete before fall 1992.
According to GSIA Associate Dean for 
External Affairs Natalie Taaffe, the day 
will begin with a VIP luncheon at noon in 
the current buildings lobby. This luncheon 
will be to honor major donors, and the 
descendants of GSIA founder William 
Larimer Mellon.
At 2 pm, there will be a public ceremony 
open to all Carnegie Mellon alumni, as 
well as the schools students, faculty, and
uourcesy university ruouc neiauons
An artist's rendering of the planned addition to the GSIA building.
staff. [Carnegie Mellon President Robert] 
Mehrabian will act as the master of cer
emonies, and there will be several guest 
speakers, she said. The activities will 
conclude with the turning of the first shovel
of dirt and a public reception in the peace 
garden next to Hunt Library.
According to Taaffe, People are very 
excited about the new wing. They see this 
Please see GSIA, page 7
nside
Classifieds...............................16
Comics................................................L6
Diversions.............................Lll
Features..............................................LI
Forum............................................8
Sports......................................13
University Calendar............LI 6
VoxPopuli.....................................LI 6
Should opening day of 
baseball season become a 
national holiday?
See page 9.
CMU and Pitt host the first 
annual Lacrosse Shootout last 
weekend.
See page 13.
Nobel Laureate Herbert A. 
Simon will lecture in the 
Wherrett room tomorrow.
See page L3.
Terry Brooks latest book, 
The Druid of Shannara, proves 
to five up to his usual high 
standard.
See page Lll.
Kenpo karate master Jeff 
Speakman strikes a deadly pose 
during his new movie The 
Perfect Weapon.
Protesters stage 30-day hunger strike
Eirene, others fast; challenge Carnegie Mellon defense research
By MEGAN DIETZ
Tartan Assistant News Editor
Three concerned Pittsburgh residents 
are holding a hunger strike and vigil 
outside of Wean Hall for the month of 
April to protest CMUs involvement in 
U. S. Department of Defense research.
The protestors are Erin Bush, a Pitt 
student, Vincent Eirene of the Duncan 
andPorter House for the Homeless, and 
Michael Glabicki, a musician with the 
band Rusted Root. They specifically 
oppose SCS research in developing de
fense technology now stationed in the 
Persian Gulf.
Were objecting to the School of 
Computer Sciences involvement in this 
awful war, said Bush. 70 percent of 
the CS research done here is with the 
Department of Defense.
According to Eirene in an interview
with The Tartan, [Eirene targets Comp 
Sci 9/4/89], SCS has been involved 
with the development of Command 
Action Team (CAT), an artificial intel
ligence system designed to monitor 
and assess potential threats against a 
carrier group and to recommend pos
sible actions for countering those 
threats.
The hunger strike is targeted at this 
research. Says Eirene, We are hoping 
that CMU will replace its hardened 
heart with a heart of flesh and start 
doing research for people who are 
mentally ill, people who have AIDS, 
the homeless ... to be constructive in
stead of developing new and exotic ways 
of killing our brothers and sisters.
The recent war in the Persian Gulf 
has added fuel to the protestors fire. 
The terrible feat of being able to kill 
more than 100,000 people in 43 days
couldnt have been accomplished with
out the high-tech weaponry systems 
being developed here today, saidBush.
We want Sheryl Young [a research 
scientist in SCS] to end with the clan
destine spirit and go public with this 
[information about CMU research for 
the Department of Defense].... said 
Eirene. We live in a democracy, and 
we want the work thats being done 
here to be exposed to the light of public 
opinion.
This hunger strike is not the first 
reaction to CMUs military research 
contracts with the government.
One such protest in August 1989 
found Eirene arrested and tried for 
sitting on the steps of CMUs Software 
Engineering Institute. He was con
victed but not sentenced  instead, 
the judge commended his nonviolent 
protest tactics.
u.m. nciiucisun/ iditaii i_.ui ili luuimg cuiiui
Erin Bush and Vincent Eirene begin their 30-day hunger strike outside Wean Hall. The two, 
along with Michael Glabicki, are protesting Carnegie Mellon SCS research.
Zimeran wrnsn trolG SIGGwsA blrksnnrlng nGousmGn dIM nokksl
By KATIE CULBERTSON
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
Kinkos Graphics Corporation 
and other commercial printing 
establishments must revise their 
printing policies, according to a 
March 28 United States District 
Court of Southern New York rul
ing.
Eight textbook publishers filed 
suit against Kinkos in April 1989. 
The result of their action, Basic
Books us. Kinkos Graphics Cor
poration, is a ruling that limits 
the rights of such establishments 
to provide duplicates of copy
righted material to professors and 
students.
According to a Kinkos press 
release that followed the decision, 
the corporation plans to comply 
immediately. Through the 
Kinkos Service Corporation 
Rights and Permissions Center, 
[Kinkos] is well-equipped to ...
implement full compliance mea
sures at all of our Kinkos Copy 
Centers across the country, said 
Kinkos Vice President and 
Counsel Kurt Koenig.
Prior to the ruling, Kinkos made 
fair use determinations to decide 
whether or not copyrighted mate
rial could be reproduced without 
permission from the publisher.
Under United States Copyright 
Law, the fair use clause provides 
four criteria for such determina
tion.
They include: 1) the purpose 
and character of the use, includ
ing whether such use is of a com
mercial nature or for non-profit 
educational purposes; 2) the na
ture of the copyrighted work; 3) 
the amount and substantiality of 
the portion used in relation to the 
copyrighted work as a whole; and 
4) the effect of the use upon the 
potential market for or value of 
the copyrighted work.
The guidelines in the court rul
ing restrict the rights of commer
cial establishments to consult 
these criteria. We are no longer 
going to make fair use determina
tions, said Mark Nycz, manager 
of the Kinkos Copy Center on 
Forbes Avenue in Oakland.
Instead, Kinkos, when consid
ering copyrighted material, will 
require permission from the 
publisher to print material, even 
if the material is considered to
fall within fair use guidelines.
With our copyright permi ssion 
systems, numerous publisher 
agreements, and overall invest
ment in education, we will con
tinue to service the educational 
community, said Koenig.
But despite the corporations 
promises of continued service, he 
is concerned that university pro
fessors and students will experi
ence more trouble. This is a sad 
Please see KINKOS, page 5
ysmIGrl 1sim7 uisn im tlIn2
By DANIEL DE GRANDPRE
Tartan Forum Editor
U.S. Senator H. John Heinz III (R-Penn.), 52, was 
killed last Thursday in a collision between a small 
plane and a helicopter. The accident occurred over 
a schoolyard in Lower Merion Township outside of 
Philadelphia. The crash also killed six others, in
cluding two children.
Heinz taught business strategy as a GSIA adjunct 
Professorin 1970. The U.S. flag flew at half-staff on 
campus Friday in his memory.
He was an extremely fine person, said Richard 
Cyert, president of the Carnegie Bosch Institute, 
who worked with Heinz during his professorship 
and had kept in close contact with him since. He 
was very sensitive to others. He worked extremely 
hard and was very honest. I thought he had a good
mind and a tremendous amount of curiosity. 
Ilker Baybars, associate dean of GSIA and acting 
head of the IM Department, said last Friday, 
[Heinz] was articulate and thoughtful. We were 
planning on having him speak on the savings and 
loan crisis next semester.
This morning, we made a decision at GSIA to 
inform Heinzs family that we are establishing a 
John Heinz III memorial scholarship for a masters 
student starting next fall.
Just before winning the 18th Congressional 
District seat in 1971, Heinz spent ayear teaching at 
Carnegie Mellons Graduate School of Industrial 
Administration. At the time of his death, he was a 
member of the advisory board for the School of 
Urban and Public Affairs.
The loss of John Heinz is tragic for all of us. We 
Please see HEINZ, page 7
j>

---------------------------------------------------

2The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  8 April 1991
THIS JUST IN...
Ton2 rlusln Iilulrb Gr Zolun
NEWPORTBEACH, Calif. (AP) 
 President Bush said today he 
has ordered United States Air 
Force transport planes to airdrop 
food, blankets, and clothing to 
Kurdish rebels who have fled for 
their lives to the mountains of 
northern Iraq.
President Bush, under criticism 
for refusing to aid the Kurds in 
their battle against Saddam 
Husseins army, said in a state
ment:
The human tragedy unfolding 
in and around Iraq demands im
mediate action on a massive scale. 
At stake are not only the lives of 
hundreds of thousands of innocent 
men, women, and children, but 
the peace and security of the Gulf. 
He said he would sign an ex
ecutive order freeing as much as 
$10 million for the Kurds from 
the Emergency Refugee and Mi
gration Assistance Fund.
Beginning this Sunday, U.S. 
Air Force transport planes will 
fly over northern Iraq and drop 
supplies of food, blankets, cloth
ing, tents and other relief-related 
items for refugees and other Iraqi 
civilians suffering as a result of 
the situation there, he said.
President Bush said the U.S. 
has already spent more than $35 
million to help refugees and dis
placed persons in the region since 
August 2 when Iraq overran its 
neighbor, Kuwait.
It is clear, however, that the 
current tragedy requires a far 
greater effort, said Bush. As a
result, I have directed a major 
new effort be undertaken to as
sist Iraqi refugees.
Tens of thousands of Kurds have 
fled to the mountains bordering 
Turkey to escape the Iraqi army, 
which has smashed their rebel
lion.
Bush said the airlift was 
prompted only by humanitarian 
concerns.
We expect the government of 
Iraq to permit this effort to be 
carried out without any interfer
ence, he added.
He said the U.S. would also 
consult with its coalition part
ners and the United Nations on 
how it can best provide for the 
many refugees in and around Iraq 
on a long-term basis.
hrmlsnn wikGn yroG2 CklitIm nImtGirmn
CAPE TOWN, South Africa (DJ)  The Bush 
administration will move quickly to lift certain 
sanctions against South Africa after the release of 
all political prisoners, which is scheduled to be 
completed this month, the assistant secretary of 
state for Africa, Herman Cohen, said.
The first sanctions to go probably would be those 
hurting such labor-intensive industries as agricul
ture and coal, which employ large numbers of black 
workers, the U.S. official said in an interview. The 
black unemployment issue is our highest priority, 
he said. New U.S. investment also would probably 
be allowed soon, because that will help create jobs.
. Congress imposed economic sanctions to try to 
pressure South Africa to abandon the apartheid 
policy of oppression of its majority black popula
tion. The Comprehensive Anti-Apartheid Act of 
1986 says the U.S. sanctions will end when five 
conditions are met.
The President may move to suspend or modify 
any of the sanctions after South Africa has met four 
of the five conditions, including the release of politi
cal prisoners, and after he certifies that South 
Africa has made substantial progress toward dis
mantling the system of apartheid and establishing 
a non-racial democracy.
Under an agreement between the South African 
government and the African National Congress, 
the major anti-apartheid organization, South 
Africas remaining political prisoners are sched
uled for release by April 30. When they are re
leased, Bush will move promptly to relax sanc
tions, Cohen predicted. The relaxation will take 
effect unless the U.S. Congress rejects the move 
within 30 days of being notified by the President.
After the prisoner release is complete, the only 
condition that will remain unmet in Washingtons 
view is the repeal of the Group Areas Act, which 
sets out where South Africans can live, on a racially 
segregated basis, and of the Population Registra
tion Act, which categorizes people by race. South 
African President F. W. de Klerk proposed the repeal 
of these acts in February, though he indicated 
population registration would be phased out.
yr8isG nGliesn lsdIim omlsnrw8su
MOSCOW (AP)  Striking 
Soviet coal miners, ignoring an 
agreement reached with the 
Kremlin, stayed off the job as of 
Friday, as work stoppages 
spread to other industries, in
cluding the oil industry, in pro
test against government price 
increases.
Despite the fact that most 
economic demands by miners 
were met as a result of talks 
between Prime Minister 
Valentin Pavlov and President 
Mikhail Gorbachev with repre
sentatives of miners work col
lectives, strikes continue, the 
Tass news agency said.
Oil workers in the Tyumen
area of Western Siberia also ex
pressed discontent and demanded 
that their companies be allowed 
to keep 20 percent of their pro
duction, instead of being paid in 
rabies.
Although they didnt say out
right they would go on strike, the 
mayor of the Tyumen town of 
Surgut hinted that a walkout by 
oil workers was possible.
Since the ruble is virtually 
worthless, oil and gas are valu
able for bartering for everything 
from spare pipe to food.
In a letter to Gorbachev, pub
lished yesterday in the Tyumen 
Komsolets newspaper, the oil 
workers demanded that the govemment begin negotiations on 
their demands by April 10 or 
that the responsibility for a 
social explosion will rest on 
them.
The coal miners representa
tives on Wednesday initialed 
an agreement which met most 
of their economic demands, but 
ignored their call for 
Gorbachevs resignation.
At a news conference Thurs
day night, miners' said the 
agreement was inadequate be
cause it failed to take political 
demands into account and didnt 
even measure up to economic 
concessions that ended a na
tionwide coal strike in 1989.
prmsM uswIMn Zo9IGi lsSoiwuim
KUWAIT (DJ)  Kuwaits reconstruction is 
being hampered by bureaucratic delays, lack of 
equipment, and political confusion, dimming the 
prospects for rapid recovery.
The Kuwaitis had months in exile to plan for 
liberation, but they failed to anticipate the scope 
of the damage or to prepare the logistical ground
work for coping, especially with their oil infra
structure in ruin. U.S. officials say chaos in 
Kuwait may hold up the awarding of major re
building contracts for several months.
From the oil fields to the construction business 
to infrastructure suppliers, frustrated contractors 
and even Kuwaiti officials concede recovery work 
is going more slowly than anticipated. The re
covery effort so far has been very confused, says 
a London-based Kuwaiti businessman familiar 
with the recovery program.
More confusion arises because much of the 
secretarial and legal work on U.S. contracts is 
handled out of the Kuwaitis Washington office, 
where a small staff continues to labor, unseen by 
all but a few Persian Gulf insiders. Potential U.S. 
contractors cant get through to the Kuwaitis at 
this office because a security guard tells them to 
simply drop off their proposals at the lobby.
In the meantime, the U.S. chief executives who 
accompanied. Commerce Secretary Robert 
Mosbacher on his first trip to liberated Kuwait 
worry that the Kuwaitis could be too absorbed in 
their postwar politics to make prompt decisions. 
Irvin Richter, chairman of the construction con
sulting company Hill International Inc., says 
what is needed is an allied-Kuwaiti high com
mission like what we had in postwar Germany 
that could speed the effort. But the Kuwaiti 
government is likely to resist such efforts because 
it thinks it can do the job better itself.
Even the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, the 
first rebuilder on the scene, admits it has been
waiting for weeks for Kuwaiti approval for an 
additional $53 million in repair work. The Corps 
is Kuwaits agent for this emergency program.
Though potential reconstruction has set off a 
world-wide scramble for contracts, few beyond 
the initial salvo of awards for emergency repairs 
have been announced. Kuwait isnt likely to m&kb 
its first major awards until after the next couple 
of months, says Arthur Pilzer, the U.S. Export! 
Import Banks vice president for Africa and iRe 
Middle East.
Meanwhile, experts are scaling back their esti
mates of just how much work will be required. 
Earlier British estimates ranged from $85 billion 
to $375 billion, but John Finigan, general man
ager in London of the National Bank of Kuwait, 
says the final figure is likely to be at the modest 
end of this scale. The Corps of Engineers has an 
even more conservative assessment. Unofficially, 
its estimating $10 billion to $20 billion to restore 
Kuwaits oil industry and $5 billion to $10 billion 
to rebuild the rest of the infrastructure.
Confusion also rages about how the Kuwaitis 
intend to finance the reconstruction. Theres no 
doubt the countrys estimated 92 billion barrels of 
oil reserves give it the potential to regrain its place 
as one of the wealthiest nations per capita. But 
the route to recovery is filled with Obstacles.
Because of the damage, significant oil revenue 
isnt expected for months, if not longer. ThouSr 
many Kuwaiti officials are reluctant to sell items 
from the nations portfolio of overseas assets^ 
short-term financial requirements could forte 
the Kuwaitis to tap some of their liquid resound: 
Kuwaitis familiar with the London-based Kuwait 
Investment Office, which manages the investment1 
portfolio, say such resources already have 
dwindled, after the expenses of eight months-m 
exile, to $80 billion or less from $100 billion before 
the Iraqi invasion.
Ton2 IoG2rli7su tr8slG ItGirm im 3lIv
WASHINGTON (AP)  Presi
dent Bush early this year signed 
official orders authorizing the 
Central Intelligence Agency to aid 
rebel ^factions inside Iraq, ac
cording to several intelligence 
sources.
The authorizations, if carried 
out, would add concrete actions to 
the verbal encouragement Bush 
was giving the rebels to overthrow 
Iraqi President Saddam Hussein.
Meanwhile, NBC reported that 
the Voice of Free Iraq, a clandes
tine anti-government radio sta
tion that operated during the 
conflict over Kuwait, was a CIAsponsored operation. Clandestine 
anti-government broadcasts are 
a common covert action tool used 
by the agency.
According to three intelligence 
sources, Bush in January signed 
one or more presidential find
ings  official documents au
thorizing covert actions  that 
broadly described plans to help 
Iraqs rebel factions.
Such documents must by law 
be communicated to the House 
and Senate intelligence commit
tees, butthey were handledatthe 
most sensitive level.
Knowledge of their existence 
was confined to the so-called 
Gang of Eight, a group made up 
of the chairman and ranking mi
nority member of the two com
mittees, plus the House speaker 
and minority leader and the 
Senate majority and minority 
leaders.
The findings were approved at 
about the same time Bush ordered 
the start of the air war against 
Iraq, and at a time when his public 
statements were directly encour
aging the Iraqi people to rise up
and overthrow their president:
The administration has cpftie 
under increasing criticisiJfor; 
leadinglraqs rebels, particularly. 
the Kurds in the north and; the. 
Shiite Muslims in the southr,to 
believe that they would getttS. 
support if they followed through 
on Bushs exhortations.
Kepeated administration 
statements have made it clear 
that U.S. forces will not be used to 
interfere in the conflict because 
to do so would be outside the scope 
of the United Nations mandate 
that called for Iraq to be driven 
from Kuwait.
News briefs courtsey 
Dow Jones, Inc.
Layout by 
Rick Quinn
Pirates Home Opener
HOW TO GET TO THREE RIVERS STADIUM BY BUS
Catch a PAT Bus at Forbes and Morewood marked 
61 A, B, or C going downtown 
to either : Market St. and transfer to bus 16 A to the stadium 
or: Wood St. and transfer to bus 96 E across the river 
PAT fares : $1.25 to board + 25 cents for a transfer 
Zime raenwsts ol GS IrtAwbk gntiud

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  8 April 19913
Ch q smurlnsn trwwsiIGs nbsst2 blrGstGirm CtG
5CD5Cc
c$4y
CcCq0y3y
By RHONDA STRUMINGER
Tartan Contributing Editor
The Colle
giate Speech 
protection Act, 
currently before 
the U. S. House 
df Representa
tives, will, if
passed, allow students the right 
to try to appeal any college or 
university regulation that would 
junish them for making so-called 
tate speeches.
The,American Civil Liberties 
Union has endorsed the act. Acording to Marion Damick, 
Pittsburgh's ACLU executive di
rector, most universities dont
have such regulations. There are 
some in California and Wiscon
sin, though, and [such rules] are 
coming into more general use in 
attempts to control hate speech 
and things of this sort.
For example, at Brown Uni
versity, a student was suspended 
for two years for shouting some 
drunken epithets against 
anothers religion.
We would hope that other uni
versities wont adopt such rules 
and that free speech remains 
predominant for all universities 
so that [schools] serve as a 
sounding board for all types of 
opinions, he said.
The Carnegie Mellon Student 
Handbook states no such rule for
CMU students. The handbook 
clearly states that freedom of 
thought and freedom of expres
sion cannot be influenced by cir
cumstances.... This is apart ofthe 
price of freedom.
Anyone from on or off campus 
can come on to the campus and 
can demonstrate, pass out leaf
lets, or whatever so long as they 
dont damage property, block 
buildings, injure anyone, and 
dont interfere with the normal 
business of the University, said 
Chief of Campus Police Jim 
LaPaglia.
Assistant Dean of Student Af
fairs Anne Witchner said, A col
lege campus  what better place 
to serve as a forum for airing
"Freedom of thought and freedom of 
expression cannot be influenced by 
circumstances.... This is a part of the 
price of freedom. 
W CMU student handbook
different views? However, there 
is a fine line between what is 
harassment and what is consid
ered acceptable.
[It is] doubtful that we should 
have a rule which could be inter
preted to abridge speech, even 
offensive speech. But, theres room 
in society for voluntary granting
of dignity and respect to others, 
said Associate Professor of Law 
and Industrial Administration 
Emeritus Thomas Kerr. Kerr also 
served as the ACLU chair of 
Pennsylvania for 20 years and as 
a member of the ACLU National 
Board of Directors. Presently, he 
serves as a member of the Na
tional Advisory Council.
I dont think that CMU should 
sanction somebody who is so stu-C: 
pid and tasteless as to make an 
invidious remark about somebody! 
else, but that we ought to foster., 
developing good manners.
In a March 25 news release,_ 
Damick stressed that the ACLU 
is deeply opposed to racism, sex^ 
ism, homophobia and other such, 
biases on college campuses. I, 
believes, however, that efforts to ~ 
combat such offensive speech . 
must not at the same time sup
press freedom of thought and ex-, 
pression.
The policy of the ACLU, accord
ing to the news release, which 
Please see SPEECH, page 7
Community begins drive to prevent Mosque demolition
By DANIEL HOLLAND
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
The Shriners relinquished ownership 
ofthe Syria Mosque for $10 million last 
Monday to the National Development 
Corporation (NDC). Following the sale, 
the NDC announced its plans to demol
ish the Mosque and use the space to 
construct an office building.
A large following of individuals and 
community groups throughout Pittsburg&.has assembled behind the Mosque 
in a^attempt to save it from this fate.
T!he preservation effort is led by In 
Pittsburgh Senior Editor Scott Mervis, 
wh&getitioned the citys Historic Review 
Commission last week to nominate the
It is an important part of our cultural and 
physical landscape. The Mosques style is 
lending something to Oakland. 
W John Herbst, 
exec, dir., Historical Society of West Penn.
Mosque as an historic landmark and 
possibly prevent demolition. But a 
strange twist of fate has befallen In 
Pittsburghs attempts. According to the 
tabloid, its application to nominate the 
Mosque last Monday was two hours be
hind NDCs permit for demolition.
But Mosque supporters did not give 
up. A petition drive was started outside 
the Sphinx-guarded steps ofthe Mosque, 
while the Historic Review Commission 
announced a public hearing Friday at 
the commissions office.
The Shriners sale of the Mosque to
NDC comes at a time of waning popular
ity for the building as a concert hall. For 
the past several years, the Mosque has 
been out-competed for concert venues by 
other theaters like the Civic Arena, the 
A.J. Palumbo center, Heinz Hall, and 
Star Lake Ampitheather. Moreover, the 
Shriners have been losing membership 
steadily since 1983 and are currently 
looking for a new meeting hall for their 
members.
John Herbst, Executive Director ofthe 
Historical Society of Western Pennsyl
vania, located across the street from the 
Mosque, points out that the building fits 
an historical motif in Oakland. Sur
rounding the Syria Mosque are the Sol
diers and Sailors Memorial Hall, the
Pittsburgh Athletic Association, the'1 
Twentieth Century Club, and the His-1 
torical Society. The Historical Society is 
deeply concerned about the loss of this, 
architectural gem, Herbst said. It is an:; 
important part of our cultural and physi
cal landscape. The Mosques distinct 
style is lending something to the feel ofJ 
Oakland.
Pittsburgh History and Landmarks 
Foundation president, Arthur Zeigler, is 
absolutely opposed to demolition accordingtoth ^Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. He 
said that First, we think every effort 
should be made to find a reuse for the 
building, and secondly, if an alternative 
use cannot be found, find a building 
Please see MOSQUE, page 7
Senate announces April 24
%.JU *and 25 as election dates
TM Carnegie Mellon Student Senate will hold elections April 
24^and 25. Vacancies need to be filled for Student Government 
president and treasurer, as well as four seats for CIT, two seats 
fopM^S, four seats for CFA, three seats for H&SS, three seats 
for-SUPA, and one seat for GSIA.
Ini order to be eligible for election to the Student Senate you 
must1 be an activities fee-paying student, be a member of the 
;ge whose vacancy youd like to fill, and file a petition with at 
leat"25 signatures.
Call the Student Senate office at x2115 with any questions.
H&SS appoints associate dean
Richard A. Smith, associate professor of political science, has 
been appointed associate dean for curricular planning for the 
College of Humanities and Social Sciences.
Smith will be responsible for re-evaluating the H&SS core 
curriculum, which all H&SS students are required to complete in 
order to provide a base of skills, concepts, perspectives and
nowledge in many disciplines.
According to H&SS Dean Stephen Fienberg, Since the estab
lishment of the core curriculum in 1978, many of the courses 
have undergone major change. Dean Smith will direct our efforts 
toward a more traditional liberal arts education, making the
Carnegie Mellon in Brief
connections between literature, history, and languages clearer 
for students.
Smith was the associate head of the Department of Social and 
Decision Sciences for eight years before last summer and contrib
uted to the design of the original core curriculum and the Seniors 
Honors Program. He also developed the core course Decision 
Processes in American Political Institutions and received the 
Elliot Dunlap Smith Award for distinguished teaching and 
educational service in 1988-89.
Art department announces Paul 
MacCready to speak tonight
Paul MacCready, credited with building the first aircraft for 
sustained, human-powered flight, will speak on Gossamer 
Designing at 7 pm tonight at the Carnegie Lecture Hall.
MacCready, who has an academic background in physics and 
aeronautics, is also a meteorologist and a world champion glider 
pilot. In addition, he is concerned with conserving energy, saving 
the environment, and teaching thinking skills.
He has won numerous awards, including the 1982 Lindbergh 
Award, The Engineer of the Century Gold Medal, and The Collier 
Trophy. MacCready is also the president of the International 
Human Powered Vehicle Association. His aircraft, The Gossamer 
Condor, now hangs in the Smithsonian Institutions Air and 
Space Museum in Washington, D.C., next to the Wright Broth
ers flyer and the Spirit of St. Louis.
Currently, MacCready is the Chairman and CEO of 
AeroVironment, Inc., which produces prototype vehicles such as 
a high speed human-powered airplane and a radio controlled 
replica of a giant pterodactyl.
The lecture will include slides and video and is free and open to 
the public. It is presented as part of The Robert Lepper Distin
guished Lecture Series in Creative Inquiry, sponsored by the 
Department of Art.
Office of International education ; 
announces Fulbright scholarships i
Applications for the Fulbright Scholar Program are now 
available in the Office of International Education. Fulbright 
scholarships last from two months up to a year and offer the 
opportunity to propose your own lecture and research projects. 
Approximately 1000 grants will be awarded; nearly one third of I 
those will be for research projects. The Fulbright Scholar Pro
gram is open to people of all academic ranks and professions.
Each application packet contains a description of opportunities  
by country and a handbook. Requirements include U.S. citizen
ship, a PhD or the equivalent and, in some cases, language 
proficiency. Deadlines for most awards are June 15 or August 1. ;
For more information, stop by the Office of International Educa- \ 
tion or call x7595. |
Compiled by !
SAMANTHA KOSSMAN 1
MtdwstiAt ywmt Iubmm 
The Housing Office wishes to congratulate the Residence Life Staff selected for the 
1991-1992 academic year. Thank you for taking the time to "Just Do It"!
Resident Assistants
Boss HallJon WalshHendersonCourtney MacdonaldJohn DiCosolaShirley Julie McElhinny
Stephen Neely
Todd SwansonMMAConrad SchorrMudgeDiann DealTudor Seong AnEmma GosdenJeff Souser
CarolPat Mooney
MarybelleAlex James
Heather Westersund 
Octavio Lubrano
Welch Clare Green
DohertySridhar DasariPatricia ShanahanWoodlawn Courtney Schlisserman
Michael SchwartzMcGillKurt SchlegelLynn Clarke
Eric LarsonCharles BeyerBilal Rashid
Hannah LopezMike LippertLuisa Pessoa-Brandao
Brian MoyerProsrrammin?
DonnerAlex Macdonald 
Sean O'Brien
MorewoodRajesh Putcha 
Natalie Gesmond
Inge SwensonAssistants
Aymerik RenardCheryl BrewerResnik/West WingShauna GrovellMichael Ewedosh
Jenni LeeJennifer GaspariDan FioreLuke Hornof
Beatrice GuilleuxSanjay LallDave HamrockNatalie Mamczak
Satyan WadhwaCarolyn LoweMaggie DobkinPraveen Bahethi
Ron BeckMelissa ShirleyRob Schaeffer
Julie SterbankSheree Hutter 
Michele Corn
Jennifer Kilian 
Sarah Gibby
FairfaxMindy KippDolly Shen 
Yi-Ren Wang
Asha PuttaiahDesk Managers
HammerschlagChris Tesluk 
Asheesh Gupta
Rosemary Green 
Tracey Kilmer
RoselawnCory JacquesBill Cheeseman 
Christine Cocca
Mitch SebringRoy HuangScobellJohn McGoldrickChristine Kochinski
Mike MullerDavid MajorMichael StepaniakEmily Leon
George SegedaLisa HossainiEric McAnallenLorraine Miller
Chris KimMichael MoAndrew SattlerMatt Kelly
Selection '91

---------------------------------------------------

(j 1991 Summer Sessions
Undergraduate & Graduate Courses for Summer Sessions:
(1) Offered Summer Session One May 20- June 28,1991
(1&2) Offered Summer Session All May 20- August 16,1991
(2) Offered Summer Session Two July 1 - August 9,1991
* Graduate Course Number
Department
Course
NumberCourse Title
Number 
of units
Sessions
Offered
Architecture48-500Architectural Design18unlts(1)
Art60-374Individual Problems9 units(1)(2)
60-380Contemporary Art9 units(1)
60-381Independent Study:9 units(1)
Biomedical42-500
Contemporary Issues in Art History 
Physiology 9 units(1)
Engineering42-560Undergraduate Projects9 units(1)(2)
*42-735Physiology9 units(1)
Chemistry09-103Fundamentals of Gen. Chemistry9 units(1)
09-105Modern Chemistry I10 units(1)
09-106Modern Chemistry II10 units(1)
09-1178Organic Chemistry I9 units(1)
Computer99-206C Programming6 units(1)
Science
Design51-210Beginning Photography9 units(1)
51-302Two-D/Three-D Form Analysis9 units(1)
51-371Junior Independent Study9 units(1)(2)
51-471Senior Independent Study9 units(1)(2)
Economics73-100Principles of Economics9 units("0(2)
73-250Intermediate Microeconomics9 units(1)(2)
73-300Intermediate Macroeconomics9 units(2)
73-360Econometrics9 units(1)
English76-100Strategies for Writing9 units(1)(2)
76-101Reading Texts9 units(1)(2)
76-170Advanced Exposition9 units(2)
76-235Narrative Cinema:9 units(1)
76-239
Sound, Image, Text 
Intro, to Media Studies:9 units(1)
76-239
News Apparatus 
Intro, to Media Studies:9 units(2)
76-243
Women and Television 
Contemporary Women's Fictions9 units(1)
76-244Fantasy Literature for Children9 units(1)
76-245Shakespeare9 units(2)
76-246Science Fiction Film and Literature9 units(2)
76-248Avant-Garde Discourses9 units(1)
76-265
from Dada to Performance Art 
Survey of Forms: Poetry9 units(2)
76-291Discourse and Historical Change9 units(1)
76-301Internship9 units(1 )(2)
76-371Rhetoric in Social Interaction9 units(1)
*76-771Rhetoric in Social Interaction9 units(1)
History79-106Race and Gender9 units(2)
79-120Development of American Society9 units(2)
79-124Industrial America9 units(1 )(2)
79-220Contemporary America in Film9 units(1)79-221A History of American Urban Life9 units(2)
79-222History of Advertising9 units(2)
79-244History of Computing9 units(2)
79-253American Foreign Relations9 units(2)
79-307Twentieth Century America9 units(1)
79-328American Medicine, History & Policy 9 units(1)
79-360Witchcraft and Dissent9 units(1)
Industrial70-121
in the Middle Ages 
Financial Accounting9 units(1)
Management70-311Organizational Behavior I9 units(1)70-332Government and Business9 units(2)
70-340Business Communications9 units(1)70-371Production I9 units(1)70-381Marketing I9 units(2)
70-391Finance I9 units(2)
70-422Cost Accounting9 units(2)
Mathematics21-111Calculus I (H&SS)10 units(1)21-112Calculus II (H&SS)10 units(1 )(2)
21-121Calculus I10 units("0(2)
21-122Calculus and Linear Algebra10 units("0(2)
21-127Introduction to Modern Mathematics 9 units(1 )(2)
21-228Discrete Mathematics9 units(1)(2)
21-259Calculus in Three Dimensions9 units(1)(2)
21-260Differential Equations9 units(1 )(2)
21-341Linear Algebra9 units(1)21-484Applied Graph Theory9 untis0)
Mechanical24-112Fluid Mechanics I10 units(1)Engineering24-121Thermodynamics I9 units(1)
Department
Course
NumberCourse Title
Number 
of units
- YJJU
Sessions
Offered
Metallurgical27-312Materials III9 units(1&2) "
Engineering27-322Processing 112 units(1&2)
and Materials27-350Industrial Projects Seminar9 units(1&2)
Science27-390Industrial Internship9 units(1&2)
Modern82-101Elementary French 19 units(0
Languages82-102Elementary French II9 units(1)
82-121Elementary German 19 units(1) -S,
82-122Elementary German II9 units(1 )
82-141Elementary Spanish 19 units<1)82-142Elementary Spanish II9 units(1) Cl
82-161Elementary Italian 19 units(1)
82-162Elementary Italian II9 units(1) :::!
82-181Fundamental Latin 19 units(1) ...o
82-191Elementary Russian9 units/ H \ uuj
82-201Intermediate French 19 units
82-202Intermediate French II9 units
82-221Intermediate German 19 unitsI I I 'in
82-222Intermediate German II9 units
82-241Intermediate Spanish 19 units(1)
82-242intermediate Spanish II9 units(1)
82-301Adv. French Conversation & Comp.9 units(1)
82-415Studies in French Literature9 units(0
Philosophy80-100Philosophic Methods9 units(1)
80-210Intro, to Logic (self-paced)9 units("0(2) 
80-237Topics in Social & Political Philos.9 units(1) :c~:
80-495Supervised Research/Projects9 unitsjiiisj
Physics33-121Physics 1: Mechanics10 units(0(2) La
33-122Physics 11: Heat Waves and Optics10 units("0(2) ....
33-123Physics III: Electricity & Magnetism10 units(1)(2)
Psychology85-101
(Ail Physics courses are self-paced 
General Psychology (self-paced)9 units
'-.i.
(1)85-210General Programming (self-paced)9 units(1)(2) ;r,
85-480Research Intern, in Clinical Psych.18 units(1)(2) ;"
Social and88-211Cobol Programming Environment9 units(1) T
Decision88-334American Foreign Policy:9 units(2) -Sciences 
School of*90-800
from F.D.R. to Bush
- . L. - y . . ; 03 -j:'J . sub
Organizational Mgt: Theory/Practice 12 units(1&2)
Urban and*90-801Data Analysis for Managers12 units(1&2) -
Public Affairs*90-802Computer Appl. for Public Mgrs.12 units(1&2)
Masters of*90-803Economic Prin. of Policy Analysis12 units(1&2)
Public*90-804Financial Analysis for Managers12 units(1&2) -
Mangement*90-810Leadership6 units(2)*90-818Strategic Marketing I12 units(1&2) -
*90-820Strategic Planning12 units(1&2)
*90-822Personnel Administration12 units(1&2)
*90-828Ethical issues in Management6 units(1) .....*90-836Legal Issues in Health Systems12 units(1&2) !"WI
*90-841Entrepreneurship12 units(1&2)
*90-852Investment Analysis for Managers6units(2) 
*90-854Financial Reporting and Auditing6 units(1) :
*90-873Management of Computers12 units(1&2)- :
Statistics36-101
and Information Systems 
Statistical Concepts9 units("0(2) !
36-209
with Computer Applications 
Probability and Applied Statistics9 units(1 )(2)
36-210
for Management and Social Sciences I 
Probability and Applied Statistics 9 units(1)(2) _
36-211
for Management and Social Sciences II 
Probability and Applied Statistics 9 units(1)(2)
36-212
for Physical Sciences and Engineering I 
Probability and Applied Statistics 9 units(1)(2)
36-217
for Physical Sciences and Engineering II 
Prob. Theory & Random Process 9 units("0(2)
36-220Engineering Stats. & Quality Control 9 units(1)(2)
36-225Intro, to Probability and Statistics I9 units(1 )(2)
36-226Intro, to Probability and Statistics II9 units(1)(2)
36-309Expererimental Design for9 units(1)(2) ;
36-325
Behavioral and Social Sciences 
Probability & Mathematical Stats. I9 units(1)(2) i
36-326Probability & Mathematical Stats. II9 units(1)(2) I
The course schedules for the above listed courses are contained in the 1991 Summer Univer
sity Schedule of Courses. The dates of the Summer Sessions are listed above. Undergrade 
ate tuition is $127/unit (3 units = 1 credit). The Course Schedule also contains registration 
materials and further information.
The Summer University Catalog will be available on May ' at one of several locations on 
campus: outside of Warner Hall ''', the Registrar' Office (WH Lf'), the Summer Studies 
Office (WH 'fBPg or call ,NNLfE Course listings are now available from the Summer Studies 
Office.
Pre-Registration Day for Enrollment by Mail is April 16. All candidates must register for 
summer coursework using the 1991 Registration/Add/Drop Form. NOTE: Registration materi
als for courses taking place during Summer Sessions One and All are due in the Summer 
Studies Office May 15,1991. The offering of summer coursework is dependent upon sufficient 
course enrollments. Only those Registration Forms received by the registration 
deadline(s)will be counted. ____________

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  8 April 19915
1wi7e2d kedtd AeTau Abdth utbAtadC duTstiud 8bl dTmmta
Z3cZJayg klrd bIs '
day for the educational community, said 
Koenig. Professors across the country 
depend upon Kinkos to help them pro
vide up-to-date course materials for their 
students.
Professors and students who depend 
on this timely material will suffer as a 
result of this court ruling.
Nycz said that a lot of professors arent 
going to bother anymore.
CMU English Professor Kathleen 
McCormick, however, is not deterred by 
the change in policy. She has used Kinkos 
in the past to make copies for her students 
and plans to continue.
To me, this means that I need to get 
my act together and get my packets in 
earlier, said McCormick. I will certainly 
abide by this.
According to Nycz, it is crucial that 
professors bring their materials in sooner,
since things are going to slow down a 
lot, as it takes longer to receive consent 
from the publishers.
According to the Kinkos press release, 
the timing of the court decision may keep 
students from receiving material in time 
for the next semester, as Kinkos and 
their clients adjust to the new proce
dures.
Nevertheless, McCormick thinks the 
rulingis a good idea. They should always
get permission.
Due to the ruling, other printing estab
lishments will also now have to watch 
their backs. This includes University 
Printing and the CMU Copy Centers. 
We dont do much material thats copy
righted, said Patricia A. Herbster, man
ager of the CMU Copy Centers.
However, the Copy Center will take a 
proactive role, by making applications 
for publisher permission available at the
Copy Center. This is our next step, said 
Herbster.
Alvin P. Brannick, senior vice presi
dent for Legal Affairs, is concerned that 
the ruling dumps too much of the respon
sibility in the laps of Kinkos. People in 
the printing business should not be the 
police, he said.
Koenig said that as for the lawsuit, we 
currently are reviewing the decision and 
considering various options atthis time.
Crime and Incident Report
3/15 HARASS
MENT, 10:26 pm.
The parent of a fe
male Carnegie Mel
lon student called 
Campus Police be
cause her daughter was being 
harassed by another CMU stu
dent named George. George had 
been following the student since 
about 7 pm and asked the student 
to go to Greek Sing with him. The 
student refused, and George had 
been following her since that time. 
The student was advised to con
tact Campus Police if the harass
ment continued.
3/15 PRANK, 6:54 pm. A Car
negie Mellon student called Cam
pus Police to report the theft of a 
stereo, a watch, and other items 
from his dorm room. It was dis
covered that the resident assis
tants took the items from the 
students room to teach him a 
lesson about leaving his door un
locked.
3/16 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF,
10:18 am. A Carnegie Mellon stu
dent notified Campus Police that 
he had broken a window in the 
mens bathroom on the second 
floor of Donner Hall. The student 
had been drunk and threw a roll 
of paper towels at the window, 
causing it to break.
3/16 DISORDERLY CON
DUCT, 2:42 am. Campus Police 
responded to a complaint of an 
unruly individual on the seventh 
floor of Morewood B-Tower. A 
Carnegie Mellon student said that 
while he was at Alpha Tau Omega, 
he was involved in a disagree
ment with another individual. The 
student was escorted out of ATO 
by some of the brothers.
The student had also injured 
his right hand and was trans
ported to Presbyterian Hospital.
3/16 DISORDERLY CON
DUCT, 7:32 pm. Two Carnegie 
Mellon students were seen hav
ing a confrontation, with a third 
CMU student trying to keep them 
apart. Campus Police officers 
talked to the students, and the 
three left together.
3/16 FERE, 6:39 pm. During 
the Spirit fashion show, a trash 
can was discovered smoldering 
outside the Skibo Ballroom. The 
can was removed to the outside 
patio where the fire was extin
guished.
3/16 INSTITUTIONAL VAN
DALISM, 2:34 am. Campus Po
lice were informed of a fight in the 
A-Tower lobby. On arrival, Cam
pus Police found the window of 
one of the lobby entrance doors 
broken. The on-duty resident as
sistant was then informed of the 
damage.
3/16 THEFT, 4:50 pm. A Car
negie Mellon student notified 
Campus Police that her locker in 
Margaret Morrison Hall had been 
broken into. A camera tripod was 
the only item reported missing 
from the locker.
3/18 THEFT, 11:02 am. A 
Carnegie Mellon student reported 
that persons unknown had bro
ken into her locker outside the 
Margaret Morrison darkroom. A 
box of print paper was the only 
thing removed from the locker.
3/18 THEFT, 11:24 am. A 
Sigma Alpha Epsilon brother re
ported that someone had entered
his private bathroom and stolen a 
white pin-stripe dress shirt.
3/20 THEFT, 7:53 pm. A stu
dent called campus police to re
port thirty-four billiard balls 
missing from the Donner Desk. It 
is unknown how the billiard balls 
disappeared.
3/21 CRIMINAL ATTEMPT, 
4:46 pm. A Carnegie Mellon stu
dent reported the locking plate on 
his apartment door jamb bent. A 
check of the door and door jamb 
found no damage to the lock, how
ever there was ample space be
tween the door and frame to allow 
easy access with a pry tool to the 
locking plate. A maintenance re
quest was submitted to repair the 
locking plate.
3/21 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF, 
2:31 am. The Morewood Gardens 
desk attendant reported water 
coming out of the first floor mens 
restroom. Aphysical plant worker 
responded and found that the 
spigot in the sink had been bro
ken off and the hot water turned 
on full.
3/21 THEFT, 1:34 pm. Cam
pus Police received information 
about a parking permit reported 
lost or stolen on December 11, 
1990. The student in possesion of 
the permit apologized for using 
the permit at that time or any 
other.
3/22 SIMPLE ASSAULT,
RESEARCH PAPERS
18,500 to choose from  all subjects 
Order Catalog Today with Visa/MC or CODk'gfflfggarcEnffiflfl 800-351-0222
In Calif. (213) 477-8226
Or. rush S2.00 to: Research Assistance
11322 Idaho Ave. #206-SN Los Angeles. CA 90025
Custom research available- all levels
1991 Summer SessionCase Western Reserve University
This summer you can move ahead in engineering, the 
humanities, social sciences, natural sciences, and manage
ment. Take advantage of special summer session tuition 
rate of $267 per credit hour.
Summer session extends from June 4 through July 31 
and includes special sessions for premedical students:
 Intensive semesters cover two semesters of work in 
general chemistry, organic chemistry, physics, and labs.
June 4 to July 3 and July 8 to August 9.
For a copy of the Summer Session Roster and
application materials, please contact:
University Registrar
223 Pardee Hall
Case Western Reserve University 
10900 Euclid Avenue 
Cleveland, Ohio 44106-7042
(216) 368-4318CWR
Strip District
Known as Pittsburghs secret shopping area, the 
Strip features wholesale shops that provide ethnic 
foods, baked goods, produce, meat, fish, specialty 
items, etc.
Saturday, April 27,1991 
11 am 
$3/Person
Lunch will be subsidized and transportation will be provided.
Tickets available at the Skibo Information Desk.
Sponsored by Student Affairs
11:05 pm. Two Carnegie Mellon 
students were assaulted with eggs 
by four or five white men in a car. 
The victims are discussing filing 
charges.
3/22 STOLEN VEHICLE, 4:37 
pm. A1978 brown Buick LeSabre 
was removed from the Morewood 
parking lot. The victim was ad
vised to file a report with the City 
Police.
3/24 BURGLARY, 7:04 am. 
The padlock from the steel cage 
belonging to KGB was removed. 
It is unknown if anything is miss
ing.
3/24 THEFT, 10:24 am. Two 
white males removed a box con
taining unknown contents from 
the ABM storage area of Ham
burg Hall. It was not determined 
what was missing and there was 
no sign of forced entry.
3/25 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF, 
4:32 am. Rooms in the gymna
sium containing chlorine and 
janitorial supplies were broken 
into and a bag of fencing clothes 
was scattered on the floor. Noth
ing appeared to be missing.
3/25 THEFT, 1:54 am. An 18- 
speed shogun racing bicycle was 
removed from the bike rack in the 
rear of UCC. The bike had been 
secured with a cable and padlock 
to the bike rack.
3/26 INSTITUTIONAL VAN
DALISM, 1:11 am. A gray cart
was tossed down the Wean Hall 
staircase known as Architects 
Leap, causing a large section of 
the handrail to be broken off. 
Maintenance requests were sub
mitted and pictures were taken of 
the damaged area.
3/28 VEHICLE THEFT, 8:40 
pm. A1980 Buick Regal was sto
len from the Morewood parking 
lot. A report will be filed with the 
City Police.
3/29 BURGLARY/INSTRU
MENTS OF CRIME, 7:01 pm. A 
Campus Police officer encoun
tered a man in the Tartan Grill 
kitchen area while on a building 
check of Skibo.
3/30 MEDICAL ESCORT, 
5:11 pm. A Carnegie Mellon staff 
member cut the tip of his middle 
finger on his left hand while cut
ting apples with a french knife. 
The bleeding was controlled when 
the reporting officer arrived and 
the victim was transported to 
West Penn Hospital.
3/31 SPECIAL, 10:37 am. A 
Hunt Library employee reported 
various items missing.
3/31 THEFT, 10:26 pm. A 
Sigma Nu brother reported to 
Campus Police that the stereo 
had been removed from his locked 
car. Nothing else was missing or 
damaged.
3/31 THEFT/RECOVERY, 
1:48 am. A Campus Police officer
found a sign used by the Physical 
Plant on the wall in CFA 200. The 
sign was taken to Baker Hall 155.
3/31 VEHICLE VANDAL
ISM, 8:49 pm. The rear window of 
a Carnegie Mellon students 
Mazda was broken. Nothing ap
peared to be disturbed or missing 
from the inside of the car.
4/2 DISORDERLY CON
DUCT, 8:27 pm. Milk cartons 
were thrown onto Forbes and 
Morewood Avenues. It could not 
be determined where they were 
being thrown from.
4/2 SUSPICIOUS PERSON, 
3:37 pm. A suspicious person was 
wandering through the SUPA 
area. When he left the area, noth
ing was out of order. Later, the 
City of Pittsburgh wanted the 
same man for a purse snatch on 
Wilkins Avenue.
4/3 HIT & RUN, 8:57 am. The 
driver of a brown station wagon 
hit a white Daihatsu. After exam
ining the damage, the driver of 
the station wagon left the scene.
4/4 MEDICAL ESCORT, 1:15 
am. A Carnegie Mellon student 
knocked out two of his teeth while 
pushing a buggy on Frew Street. 
The student was transported to 
Presbyterian Hospital.
Compiled By 
JASON McDONALD 
& SAMANTHA KOSSMAN
Counseling and Student Development Center
Carnegie Mellon University 
Morewood Gardens - E Tower 
Phone 268-2922
Consultation ACOA Support Group Assessment & Referral 
Sexual Assult Counseling
Academic Tutoring Crisis Intervention Individual Psychotherapy Referrals from Health Service
Hours by Appointment 
Weekday Walk-in Crisis Hours 
After hours Emergency Service
Division of Student Affairs
hCDc$-3$zp$qqJc -DCRC53Jc DJJp yCq$
$4095
 2 ADULTS
 ^ PER NIGHT
Free Breakfast Buffet  Free Evening Reception 
Oversized Guestrooms  Indoor Whirlpool Spa
Zimeramnw3cc
ClubHouse Inn Pittsburgh 
(1-279 and Parkway West) 
5311 Campbells Run Road 
SS Pittsburgh, PA 15205 
(412) 788-8400
1-800 CLUB INN

---------------------------------------------------

We're Looking for Business Partners, 
Not Employees
yrkG9Ils $mimsslng xlrlIddslng yrkG9Ils Clt2iGstGn
ntuit, the makers of Quicken, the 3rd best 
J selling application software on the planet 
for Macintosh and IBM computers (behind 
WordPerfect and Lotus 1-2-3), will be conducting 
on-campus interviews for software engineers, 
programmers, and software architects on 
Monday, April 15.
ur software development team is small 
enough to be personable. Yet big enough to 
offer you a challenging variety of programs to 
work on. It is a place where you will enjoy using 
your creative talents. We are responsible for 
honing existing products and developing true 
state-of-the-art new products. We are also 
researching and developing object-oriented 
technology in multi-platform development.
T A Je're looking for individuals who want to 
make a meaningful contribution to a 
cutting-edge software development department 
with a proven track record of successful 
products. You will be responsible for the design, 
implementation, and ultimate delivery of signifi
cant portions of software products to the con
GiypTwA7ti
The fastest, easiest way to manage home & business financesr
Jntuit
sumer marketplace, as well as applying your 
design expertise to other product areas. We are 
particularly interested in engineers with strong 
program internals experience. We have a 
number of projects going on and several that are 
just starting out on Macintosh and PC platforms 
in both C and C++. We'd love to talk with you 
and find out what excites you.
i J ualifications. Exceptionally high IQ (but
hey, this is Carnegie Mellon). Bachelor's or 
Master's degree. C or C++, experience with the 
Macintosh or IBM PC's, and previous commer
cial software development experience would be 
outstanding. You must enjoy creating robust, 
maintainable, well- documented, and easy-to-use 
(and therefore not easy to program) code that 
will be sold to and used by millions of users.
User interface design expertise is a definite plus. 
You must be excited about working in small 
teams and taking on responsibilities for large pro
gramming tasks. Oh, yes. We do write product 
specifications, so your Strategies For Writing 
classes weren't a complete waste of time after all.
Description: Software Engineers. 
Location: Menlo Park, California. 
Compensation: Great! Including
stock.
On-campus interviews: April 15 & 16. 
Sign Up: Career Center in Warner Hall
BEST OF 
1988 AND 1989';B;
An equal opportunity employer. 
Copyright Intuit, Inc. 1991
MacUser
1989
EDITOR'S
CHOICE

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  8 April 1991
kwsim7 eiwwsu im bwIms tlIn2
HEINZ, from page 1
at;Gamegie Mellon are especially 
myed by the death of this great 
pOBlic servant because he was 
fice a member of our academic 
community, said President 
Robert Mehrabian last Friday in 
a press release. As an adjunct 
professor in GSIA and later as a 
strong supporter of higher edu
cation and of this university, 
John Heinz made lasting contri
butions to this community. His 
was a life of true leadership. 
Leonard Glickman, a legisla
tive assistant to Heinz specializingin transportation issues, said 
in last Fridays The Pittsburgh 
Press, In all the four years Ive 
worked for the Senator, the thing 
thats scared me most has been 
his hopping around the state in 
these little small planes. 
Janice Kelly, his assistant 
press secretary, told the Press, 
We sent him all over the state in 
those planes. He was in them a 
couple times a day, every week 
that the Senate wasnt in ses
sion. It was the only way to get 
around the state.
According to the Press, Heinz
%
8I
Senator John Heinz (R-Penn).
had been spending his Easter 
recess traveling around the 
state in a small twin-engine 
plane, gauging reaction to the 
pending federal transportation 
budget, when the collision oc
curred.
Baybars, who took Heinz 
business strategy class at CMU, 
said, As a citizen of Pennsyl
vania, I have followed Heinz 
career since I met him 20 years 
ago. I have admired his com
mitment to public service and I
have applauded him over the 
years for what he did for Penn
sylvania and nationwide for se
nior citizens. I always thought he 
would be a good presidential can
didate.
His death was a loss for both 
Pennsylvania and the nation.
Born October 23, 1938, in 
Pittsburgh, Heinz received a 
bachelors degree from Yale in 
1960 and a masters degree in 
business administration from the 
Harvard Graduate School of 
Business Administration in1963. 
Heinz then worked for the H.J. 
Heinz Co. until 1970, when he 
taught for a year in GSIA.
Heinz entered the House from 
the 18th Congressional District 
in 1971 and was elected to his 
first Senate term in 1976. He 
would have been up for re-elec
tion in 1994.
Heinz is survived by his wife, 
Teresa Simoes-Ferreira; their 
three sons, H. John IV, 24, Andre, 
21, and Christopher, 18; and his 
mother, Joan Diehl McCauley.
A funeral service will be held 
on Wednesday at 10:30 am in the 
Heinz Chapel.
-y3C Immromtsn ms9 9im 
trmnGlotGirm Gr Ssim pIM ':
GSIA, from page 1
as the light at the end of the 
tunnel, and a big step forward 
[for GSIA].
One of the goals [for the addi
tion] was to enhance the class
room space available for the school 
as a whole, said Dennis Epple, 
acting dean of GSIA. In order to 
accomplish this, the new wing 
will include several large amphitheater-style classrooms, regular 
classrooms, computer facilities, a 
seminar room, administrative 
space, and space for the Donald
H. Jones Center for Entrepre
neurial Studies and the Carnegie 
Bosch Institute for Applied 
Studies in International Man
agement.
According to Taaffe, The new 
classroom spaces are exciting; 
they should also be more com
fortable than the current building, 
because we have more space to 
work in.
There will be some inconve
nience while construction is hap
pening, acknowledged Epple. 
We have tried to plan and minimize that, however.
Tom Murphy, Carnegie 
Mellons director of construction, 
said that there may be occasional 
congestion on Tech Street due to 
deliveries, but the street will re
main open to the public during 
the work.
According to Epple, We have 
been listed as one of the top 
business schools in the country, 
and now, with the addition of this 
new space, we will also have top 
facilities to work in. Im very 
happy.
Chq nobbrlGn klss nbsst2 Siww
ACLU, from page 3
addresses free speech and bias 
issues at universities or colleges, 
does not accept the enaction of 
any speech restrictions or the 
temptation of doing nothing as 
options. Instead, the policy said, 
colleges and universities should 
combat bias with increased edu
cation, said Damick.
Right now, CMU is doing nothing in that direction. Education, 
the option most recommended by 
the ACLU, would not necessarily 
be in a school or classroom envi
ronment.
In Pittsburgh, there is a City 
Commission on Human Relations 
with a full-time staff who are 
trained to conduct teach-ins and 
to make other recommendations, 
said Damick.
It can be severely harassing to 
a minority person  and I am 
speaking of minority religion as 
well as race  to be subjected to 
social ostracism. In employment, 
we have laws which prohibit this 
because it causes the person to 
lose productivity and perhaps 
leave the employment. We dont 
want that to happen in a univer
sity setting.
hrddomiGM lIwwisn im Im IGGsdbG Gr blsnsl8s yMliI prnvos
MOSQUE, from page 3
that is an appropriate replace
ment. Zeigler mirrors many 
peoples fears that the proposed 
office building would be a lifeless 
bjock of steel and glass.
! Groups that want the Mosque 
preserved are the Friendship 
Preservation Group, the Schenley 
Farms Civic Association, the His
torical Society, and Pittsburgh 
History and Landmarks Founda"The Historical Society is deeply concerned about the 
loss of this gem."
W John Herbst,
executive directorA Historical Society of West Penn.
tion. Opposition to the Mosques and Jack L. Weaver, the Shriners Citing mounting troubles over 
preservation is represented by potentate, recorder, and business high taxes, declining memberJoelAaronson, attorney for NDC, administrator. ships, and an inability to main
Student Senate Minutes
tain the upkeep of the Mosque, 
Weaver claimed the Shriners sale 
of the building was one of finan
cial necessity. Aaronson claimed 
that the Mosque was a derelict 
monument to nostalgia, a com
ment which enraged the audience.
In the end, the Historic Review 
Commission granted the historic 
nomination merit. However, this 
is only one of a series of steps to 
actually designate the Mosque as
an historic structure.
Over the next eight months, 
there will be two more public 
hearings before the commission 
can recommend the historic des
ignation to City Council, which 
will vote on whether or not to 
grant the Mosque its historic 
landmark status.
The final motion will proceed to 
Mayor Sophie Masloff for her ap
proval.
,Meeting called to order at 8:04.
Senators Present: Altmann 
(CS), Austin (MCS), Barnes 
(H&SS) (late), Blake (CFA), 
Crehan (H&SS), Dean (CIT), 
DeRoss (MCS), Huang (CFA), 
Ikeda (H&SS), Larson (CFA), 
Loofbourrow (CIT), Loomis 
((jrSIA), Meek (H&SS) (exc.), 
Moran (CIT), Moore (CIT) (late), 
Mueller (IM), Neighbor (CFA), 
Newfield (MCS), Shin (H&SS) 
(late), Strong (MCS) (late), Wyatt 
(CIT), Yu (GSIA) (late).
Senators Absent: Chien 
(GSIA), Dautermann (CIT).
Ex^Officios Present: Evans 
(GC Representative), Nightwine 
(AB),;Rao (President) (late), Dean 
Witchner.
ExrOfficios Absent: Erickson 
(Treasurer) (exc.), Dean Murphy.
AB  Eric Nightwine: Band 
booked for Carnival: Ocean Blue. 
Another band as well: The Clarks. 
$3 for Pirates opener Monday 
night against Montreal on sale at 
Info Desk.
Greek Council  Kriss 
Evans: Faculty Family Day, egg 
hunt, 1-3 Saturday. Greek 
Council elections are on Tuesday 
the 9th.
Student Affairs  Dean 
Witchner: No report. Question 
of where the listing of who Stu
dent Affairs gives funding to is. It 
is forthcoming.
Chair  Chris Neighbor: 
Stew and Cohn cleaned up and 
rearranged the office. Lets keep 
it clean. The printer will be taken 
in for an overhaul soon. Petitions 
are out. I have key cards for you.
Academic Affairs  Mike 
Austin: No Report. Honors Code? 
Progress Report will be here next 
Wednesday. Library Committee 
from Faculty Senate will accept 
well-defined proposals for the 
book lending policy and we will 
get a response.
Campus Affairs  Hyun 
Shin: The report and recom
mendations for the gym have been 
submitted to Dr. Harvey, Presi
dent Mehrabian, and Bill Elliott. 
Roy is in the last stages of his 
report regarding food services. He 
will work with SDCs food com
mittee. Saturday we will tour the 
campus and look at the quality of 
bike parking areas.
Funding & Recognition  
Terrel Dean & Brad Wyatt: 
Budget packets will be given out.
SPECIAL
INTEREST
HOUSES
The
Housing Office wishes 
to congratulate the groups chosen 
to have Special Interest Houses during 
the 1991-92 academic year. We appreciate your interest!
Margaret Morrison Apartments
Jewish Cultural Center 
Chinese Student Association 
National Society of Black Engineers 
Cross-Country Team
Resnik House
Womems Soccer Team 
Korean Student Association 
Spanish House
Bring them back for the next 
meeting. Almost everything has 
been filed, so lets try and keep it 
neat. Next week we will move 
into the committee as a whole. 
The gavel is handed over to the 
F&R chairs. Changes are imple
mented and each budget is voted 
upon. Then we move out of the 
committee as a whole and into 
full Senate. The entire budget is 
then voted upon. The numbers 
will be in next weeks The Tartan 
and Student Union.
Public Relations  Colin 
Crehan: The office is clean, keep 
it that way. Calendar of upcom
ing events above the printer. The 
22nd is the Happy Hour in the 
Tartan Lounge with pizza and 
soda. On the 15th is the Presi
dential Debate from 6-9 pm in PH
100. Senate Social being put to
gether. The newsletter needs to 
be printed. Student Senate 
Handbook being put together. 
Letters to RAs as well as Student 
Leaders about the Happy Hour? 
The RAs get posters. Each com
mittee will do a speech on what 
theyve done this semester. In 
The Tartan will be a platform 
statement and a photo of each 
person running for Senate. Sen
ate debate? - Perhaps they will 
speak at the Happy Hour.
Rules  Stewart Barnes: 
Minor change to the constitution, 
so you will get a new version for 
consideration today.
Postering  Dale Newfield: 
Will go ahead and begin work on 
the policy, if you have any sug
gestions, let him know.
New Business:
NonFunded Recognition: 
Christian Science Organization. 
Special Allocation: Gulf Lecture 
Series, $28. Special Allocation: 
E.M.S., $2220. Advance upon 
budget: Action Against Rape, 
$100.
Revised constitution tabled. It 
will be brought up as old business 
in two weeks.
General Discussion:
Ask Bonnie Gorman to come 
and answer questions next week. 
If you have any ideas for the 
postering policy, see Dale.
Announcements:
Thank Erik Altmann for the 
good job on the report. Ask that 
groups dont thank us.
Meeting adjourned at 9:20.
Submitted by Amy Blake.
Wal k-i n Tutori ng
Sunday through Thursday Bz'' pm
CalculusWeH6Uf
PhysicsWeH6UL:
ChemistryWeH6Lf6
Academic WritingWeH6Lf6
Intro to ComputingWeH6UL:
52s Di2G xwIts 5r 5olm
Sponsored by Counseling and Student Development Center, Division 
of Student Affairs

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Ruling shouldnt deter teachers
Followingthe U.S. District Court 
decision on March 28 that Kinkos 
must tighten up its policy on du
plicating copyrighted material for 
students and professors, Kinkos 
Vice President and counsel Kurt 
Koenig proclaimed it a sad day 
for the educational community.
In the past, Kinkos has con
sulted the fair use clause criteria 
in U. S. copyright law to determine 
whether or not to reprint copy
righted material. According to the 
ruling that resulted from Basic 
Books vs. Kinkos Graphics Cor
poration, Kinkos interpreted the 
ambiguous clause too freely. As a 
result, publishers must now be 
approached for consent before 
printing establishments copy any 
material. This will slow down the 
process of obtaining packets for 
students, and could quite possibly 
represent a hassle for both stu
dents and professors.
We support Judge Constance 
Baker Motleys decision to limit 
printers interpretation. Part of 
the fair use clause states that 
deciding whether or not to print 
certain materials depends on 
whether or not publishers will 
suffer financially from such re
production. To be fair to the pub
lishers and their business, they 
deserve the right to decide what 
will hurt them.
In that light, we encourage CMU 
professors and teaching assistants 
to take the extra time that may be 
necessary to continue to provide 
students with course materials. 
Mark Nycz, manager of the 
Kinkos Copy Center at 3945 
Forbes Avenue in Oakland, fears 
that many professors will not 
bother to go to the trouble. 
Koenig as well anticipates troubles 
for professors and students across 
the country.
There are two immediate ways 
that students can suffer if pro
fessors dont make the extra effort 
to provide packets of reading 
material. First, ifthey dont, there 
is an educational and intellectual 
loss.
Or, professors may continue to 
provide that material, except in 
the form of expensive textbooks, 
which represents a financial loss. 
Students will be forced to shell 
out additional money, as profes
sors may start requiring students 
to buy the texts instead of making 
copies of the chapters pertinent to 
the course. Students and their 
parents suffer from enough fi
nancial burdens from day to day 
as it is.
The only way to avoid these 
possible problems is to continue 
the current procedure ofproviding 
materials, but to plan ahead so 
that students receive them on 
time.
English Professor Kathleen 
McCormick has the right idea. 
She plans to get [her] act together 
and get her packets in earlier to 
Kinkos so that there will be 
enough time to receive publishers 
consent.
McCormicks lead is a good one 
to follow. It may be a pain at first, 
but at most it should just require 
a little creative reorganization and 
planning ahead. True dedication 
to the teaching profession calls for 
this.
Kinkos is not the only estab
lishment that plans to save more 
time for publisher consent. The 
CMU Copy Center, according to 
Manager Patricia A. Herbster, will 
provide applications for publisher 
permission, and encourage people 
to apply.
At this point, its difficult to 
gauge the reactions of publishers. 
Some may grant consent freely, 
while others may only grant con
sent with a complicated fee system 
attached to make it difficult to 
reprint copyrighted material.
At any rate, they have the right 
to respond in any way they choose
 its their copyrighted material 
that people want to reprint, and 
its their business at stake.
So, be fair to the publishers, and 
above all, be fair to the students 
and the academic standards at 
CMU.
U. S. House, ACLU have right idea
The Collegiate Speech Protec
tion Act, a bill pending in the U. S. 
House, would give students the 
power to challenge college or 
university imposed regulations 
that restrict free speech.
This movement to protect the 
free speech of students is impor
tant, and those who support it are 
remembering what some colleges 
and universities in this country 
seem to be forgetting: It is essen
tial to allow a free exchange of 
ideas.
This is especially true in an 
academic community, where part 
of the purpose for being there is to 
provide exposure to all different 
viewpoints, including those people 
may find offensive.
At todays colleges and univer
sities, a heightening awareness of 
racism and discrimination exists. 
Two results stem from this 
awareness: one, the attempt to 
eliminate racism and discrimina
tion from campuses on an ad
ministrative level; and two, the 
attempt to eliminate them as they 
occur on a personal level, between 
students.
The latter attempt, certainly an 
admirable one, has led some 
schools  Brown University, for 
exampleto create punishments 
for students who express hate
WL To 
OVJR M^\PUS op 
L 0\JS *,v\d
UM I TV !
Letters to the Editor
qsGGsl Gr 
G2s $uiGrl
speech. Though these regula
tions are meant to solve a prob
lem, they also create another one
 they limit free speech. Hate 
speech may be abhorrent, but that 
does not take away the fact that 
people have the right to say it.
CMU has no regulations ban
ning hate speeches. The 1990-91 
Student Handbook states, If [men 
and women] are to learn to choose 
wisely, they must know what the 
choices are; and they must learn 
in an environment where no idea 
is unthinkable and where no al
ternative is withheld from their 
consideration.
The status quo at CMU, the 
preservation of which is essential, 
provides a model that other schools 
would do well to follow.
The way to understanding is 
education and discussion  in
volving the opportunity for ev
eryone to state his or her opinions 
and ideas  not repression. If 
students are forced to keep their 
mouths shut, they will never have 
the chance to learn from each 
other. Theyll only become more 
bitter and hateful. Students and 
education both lose, because 
opinions can no longer be freely 
expressed and discussed. Its a 
relief that Capitol Hill is taking 
note of this idea.
Dining Services director 
responds to editorial
Editor: oi
This is a response to 
The Tartans editorial 
concerning Dining 
Services [CMDS 
serves up disappoint
ment, 3/L8].
We recognize the concerns raised and 
feel it is important to discuss the issues 
pertinent to balancing the Universitys 
financial needs with student, faculty and 
staff dining preferences. Several changes 
in the hours and format of operations 
were implemented to reconcile conflict
ing priorities. Students are the primary 
customers of the services, especially those 
who purchase contract meal plans. The 
services provided are budgeted eight 
months in advance of the academic year 
and are based upon forecasts of many 
revenue and cost factors, such as: the 
number of students purchasing meal 
plans, labor costs, food costs, meal atten
dance rates, and utility consumption 
costs. All of these factors are volatile and 
any one can have a significant impact 
upon the budget. We knew in mid-September 1990 that a serious revenue 
shortfall would result, but rather than 
make revisions to the program at that 
point, every effort was focused on con
trolling costs to avoid a deficit. This deci
sion was made in the interest of cus
tomer satisfaction. As the fall semester 
ended, it was projected that despite con
siderable cost containment a deficit 
would result by year-end. Hence, the 
program revisions were carefully planned 
and implemented using feedback and 
guidance from established student 
channels.
Students are deriving greater value 
from the contract meal plan this year 
than in any previous year. Despite the 
program changes, the number of meals 
eaten each week, expressed as a percent
age of the total eligible meals, is at an all 
time high! This fact reinforces that the 
core value of the meal plan program has 
not been diminished. There are still 26 
meal periods each week during which a 
student may eat any one of their meals. 
The program changes have been carefully 
developed to make them insignificant in 
the overall scope of the dining service.
Carnegie Mellon has a meal plan pro
gram that is far more valuable and 
comparatively cost-effective than most 
schools. Most colleges/universities are 
moving away from cash allowance pro
grams for budgetary reasons. None that 
we have surveyed offer allowances any
where near as high as CMDS. Twentysix contract meal periods is virtually 
unheard of in the college food service 
arena. These entitlements are simply 
too risky to the institutions. Students 
can and do make changes to their meal 
plans up to and including cancellation. 
There are guidelines that control these 
circumstances, but traditionally we have 
been reasonably accommodating to le
gitimate change requests. Each year ap
proximately 300 boarders drop or reduce 
their meal plans. These changes have an 
obvious financial impact upon the pro
gram by reducing revenues.
Dining Service has been contending 
with significant operating constraints in 
recent years. Student employment has 
fallen off dramatically. General labor 
costs have risen significantly due to fed
eral wage guidelines, collective bargain
ing agreements, etc. We have tried to 
offset these rising labor costs by finding 
ways to increase productivity. Debt ser
vice has increased tremendously with 
the Highlander Cafe construction. These 
and other factors have necessitated the 
meal plan rate increases of recent years. 
Many institutions mandate that all resi
dent students be on a meal plan to 
maximize revenues. We have chosen not 
to take similar actions. Once the meal 
plans are marketed for a given year the 
financial stability of the program is de
pendent on the number of meal plans 
purchased. The University has provided 
students with a very open range of choices 
concemingmeal plans, campus accounts 
and cash purchases.
We are steadfast in our resolve to avoid 
deficits in any auxiliaryi.e. non-tuition 
funded  operations. We do not believe 
that carrying deficits forward to be re
paid by next years students is being 
sensitive to customer satisfaction. We 
have every intention of offering a pro
gressive dining program on into the fu
ture. But in the best interests of our 
customers we do not have the latitude to 
incur operating deficits. We will be as 
creative in providing services as we can 
and will always welcome constructive 
input from all members of the CMU 
community. Thank you.
James R. Gurley 
Director of Dining Services
Stephen A. Schillo
Associate V.P. Business Affairs and
University Planning
Locker thefts point to 
larger problem
o%qsiGsl wr G2s $uiGrl 52s 5IlGIm yeiSr1Ew3p
qsGGsl Gr 
G2s $uiGrl
Editor:
As a student in the 
Art Department, I 
would like to comment 
on the lockers and 
storage spaces on the 
third floor of CFA. Sophomores like me 
do not have personal studio spaces, and 
they rely on lockers and other available 
areas. In the beginning of the fall semes
ter, I claimed a locker by placing a lock on 
it. Over the course of that semester, my 
locker was broken into at least three 
times, requiring, me to change the lock 
twice  and to pay the cost of two more 
locks  and then ultimately move to 
another locker. In this process, I have 
figured that at least $80 worth of art 
supplies were stolen. Most, if not all of 
them, were new or in excellent condition. 
These are materials that must be re
placed, and, as I am sure many students 
in the Art Department and other depart
ments can attest to, it is difficult to 
scrape up $80 on short notice. Needless 
to say, this has presently made my prob
lematic financial situation even worse.
I did think I was finished with this 
problem until recently, when a second 
$25 can of gesso was stolen out of a 
smaller locker I occupy in the painting 
studio on the third floor. The lock on this 
locker was broken as well. I now have to 
replace this third broken lock, and the 
can of gessothe second nearly full can 
that has been stolen. I am aware that all 
students have problems covering the cost 
of supplies, but when materials are sto
len from students, by students, repeat
edly, something is wrong. Not only is this 
a financial problem, but it causes time 
and work problems, since I do not have 
the materi ais I need to get my work done. 
I am not sure what solution, if any, will 
remedy this problem, but I would like 
the University community, especially the 
art students, to know that I am having a 
lot of trouble dealing, with the hurt  
financially and otherwise1 that stems 
from these thefts.
Stephanie Serpick 
Sophomore, Art
Blame for sexism should 
not rest on victims
on
qsGGsl Gr 
G2s $uiGrl
Editor:
In response to 
Jonathan Levys col
umn in the last issue of 
The Tartan [Women 
must play lead role in 
battling sexism, 3/18], I would first like 
to state my confusion. What is Mr. Levys 
message? By the end of the column he 
has stated, in summary, that sexism and 
rape are bad and should end and that 
women are the only ones who are capable 
of stopping sexism and rape although it 
is not their fault they occur. However, 
since Mr. Levys argument rests on the 
assumption that only women can suc
ceed, whether its fair or not, at ending 
sexism, his argument conflates the cause 
of sexism with its effects. To insist that 
women are the catalysts in changing a 
sexist society is to suggest they are the 
cause.
However large a role women and men 
play in encouraging sexism and rape by 
passively condoning it through inaction, 
it is the active player, the rapist, the 
person who actively discriminates, who 
has the ultimate power to stop it.
Secondly, Id like to point out that Mr. 
Levys statement, it seems that very 
little real action is being taken by either 
men or women to attack the problems 
between them, is erroneous and insult
ing to those of us who are actively at
tacking these problems. What action 
does Mr. Levy suggest, beyond talking, 
speechmaking, demonstrating, and 
writing of letters to the editor, which 
are active strategies? The only.action he 
suggests is dumping the problems ex
clusively into the laps of the victims. 
Period. Mr. Levy anticipated this kind of 
criticism and yet failed to explain how 
his blame-the-victim strategy would ac
tually work. Society and the law have 
blamed the victim since almost anyone 
can remember. Rape, sexism, and dis
crimination still occur. Isnt that ad
equate time to prove that this strategy 
doesnt work  besides the fact its 
logically ludicrous?
There are students who are actively 
working to resolve these issues. Mr. Levy 
himself mentioned one organization, the 
Womens Center. However, he conve
niently overlooked the work of groups 
such as Stop Rape and Action Agains 
Rape, the work of certain individuals 
and the CMU administration, especially 
Student Affairs and the Counseling 
Center. If Mr. Levy had ever steppe 
inside the Womens Center for one minu te 
he would have researched his c0*un 
more thoroughly than he did. For 
Levy to deny the successes and progress 
Please see LETTERS, page &

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  8 April 19919
THE TARTAN
Camegle Meilons Student Newspaper 
Since 1906
Editor-in-Chief............Katie Culbertson
Business Manager.......Beth A. Moses
News Editor..........................David Ladek
Forum Editor..........Daniel de Grandpre
Sports Editor..............................Alim Ray
Features Editor.......................AJ. Durazzl
Diversions Editor..........Stephen Glicker
Calendar Editor ...Samantha Kossman
Magazine Editor...................Alison Green
Dossier Literary Editor........Jack Sllbert
Dossier Design Editor ....Chris Shields
Art Editor........................................John Un
Photo Staff Manager.....Josh Freeman
Darkroom Manager........Jennifer Adams
Production Manager....Jennifer Forbes
Copy Manager.......................Heidi Hoover
Systems Manager................Adam Gross
Asst. News Editor............Megan Dietz
Asst. Forum Editor..........M.K. Rodgers
Asst. Sports Editor.........Manish Modh
Asst. Features Editor..........Trupti Patel
Asst. Diversions Editor......Terri Kasch
Asst. Magazine Editor ..Azleena Salleh
Contributing Editors 
Susan Abrams, Kevin Barney, Dawn 
Brosonski, William Burky, Grant 
Carmichael, Jason Digman, Frank 
DiVito, Tad Dockstader, James B. 
Endres (Tokyo), Dustin Frazier, D.A. 
Henderson, Jennifer Kerstein, Dexter T. 
Kobayashi, Farron W. Levy, Jonathan 
Levy, Thomas Nichols, Don Pickett, 
Howdy Pierce, Michael T. Rose, William 
C. Sabram, Ignatius Sasmita, Rhonda 
Struminger
Senior Staff 
Javier Grillo-Marxuach, Daniel Holland, 
Waseem Hussain, Jason McDonald, 
Rich Robinson, Mike Shapiro, Randy 
Udavcak, A. Franklin Wheeler
Staffwriters 
Laura Adams, Matt Adler, Suzanne 
Bartlett, Russ Bedel, Allan Bourdius, 
Ingrid Bromberg, Alison Carter, Rob 
Clayton, Michael Colalanne, Andrew 
Cosentino, Lori Demeter, Jill Denevisch. 
Dan Ferrell, Justine Dymond, Natalie 
Gesmond, Francis M. Goldsberry, 
Megan Greig, Sarah Hamilton, Colleen 
Kane, Geetu Khanduja, Georgina Koon, 
Richard Kwiatkowski, Ed Lee, Karen 
Loglisci, Dave Martin, Chin Oh, Shizuka 
Otake, Mark A. Roces, Charles Sabatos, 
Doug Scott, Alan Sloan, Richard Song, 
Zachary Smith, Jason Lee Smith, Kelly 
Sterling, Tina Urso, Heather Walker, 
Robert Wyner
Art
Eric Davis, Ken Flickstein, Erik Jensen, 
Mike Kirscht, Chin Oh, Jeff Oplinger, 
Dave Pagani, Pauletta Pan, Naomi 
Pearson, Jason Peltz, Cesar Sanchez, 
Amy Weiner
Comics
Gregg Baimel, Andi Briggs, Flint 
Crumpacher, Eric Davis, Danny Fahs, 
Chris Fria, Dan Gallagher, Dave Kapla, 
Andre Khromov, Doug Lamperski, Neil 
McCarthy, Craig Mrusek, Paul Reed, 
R.J. Runas, Charles Sabatos, Mike 
Shapiro, Jack Silbert, Clifford Snider, 
Ray Strobel, K. Michael Thomas, Nick 
Wardigo
Photography/Darkroom 
Jason Barshay, Jae Chang, David 
Docktor, Dan Frey, Josh Freeman, Vivek 
Gupta, Hillary Kahn, Stephen Kang, Au
gustine Kuo, Abe Levine, Sam 
Mastromatteo, Jessica Miller, Guy 
Paquette, Pauletta Pan, Kishor K. Rao
Production/Layout 
Rachel Bourn, Anne Campbell, Pankaj 
S. Mody, Rick Quinn, Kishor K. Rao, 
Derek Rubinoff, Tina Urso
American Express 
Announces A Great New 
Travel Program.
Now students can get the Card and get 3 roundtrips on Continental 
Airlines, for only 29 or $189 each.
Theres only one way to cover a lot of territory without spending 
a lot of money. And that's by getting the American Express Card.
Its the only card that offers an exciting new travel program 
exclusively for studentsincluding three roundtrip certificates on 
Continental Airlines.
Just look at the map and pick the place youd like 
to visit. If it's on your side of the Mississippi River, you 
can use a certificate to fly for only $129 roundtrip. Or, 
you can cross the Mississippi for $189 roundtrip.
You have your pick of more than 150 cities in the
48 contiguous states. And you can fly almost any timebecause 
there are no blackout dates. But you must make your reservations 
within 14 days of the day you leave. And the maximum stay is 
7 days/6 nights and must include a Saturday night.
In addition to this great travel program, youll also enjoy all 
the benefits of Cardmembership as well as other exclusive student 
privileges. They include a quarterly magazine filled with informa
tive articles on summer jobs, careers, campus life. Plus valuable 
discounts from leading retailers.
But remember, theres only one way to get all thisand thats 
by getting the American Express Card. Just call us (have your bank 
address and account number on hand). Whats more, 
with our special student offer, its easier to get the 
Card now while youre still in school than it may 
ever be again.
So get the Card. And get ready to cover new 
territory on either side of our Great Continental Divide.
CMUstud
RELATED 
 SERVICESAn Ameocw Expreu companyCALL 1-800-942-AMEX
Ifyou re already a Cardmember, there's no need to call. Information about your certificates will be arriving soon.hJc53c$c5Cq
Copy
Susan Baker, Catherine Bellanca, 
Heather Broud, Ellen Hendrickson, 
Lenna Kydes, Daniel Martinez, Erika 
Olson, Chanda Sanders
Business
Mark Kovscek, Chris McIntyre, Annie 
Park, Niloo Sobhani
The Tartan is the student newspaper of Carn
egie Mellon University. It is a weekly newspa
per published by students during the fall and 
spring semesters, at no cost to members of 
the University community. It is printed by 
Western Pennsylvania Printing, Inc. Subscrip
tions are available for the semester or aca
demic year. The editorials appearing at the 
beginning of the opinion section are the offi
cial opinion of The Tartan editorial board. 
Columns are the opinions of individual au
thors. Letters to the Editor are opinions of 
authors who are usually, but not necessarily, 
members of the University community. A letter 
intended for publication must be signed and 
include the writer's address and phone num
ber for verification. Names will be withheld 
upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to 
condense or reject any letter or column. Copy
right  1991 by The Tartan. The Tartan 
editorial board reserves the right to withhold 
from publication any copy it deems unfit for 
publication.
Office: SKibo 50 (412) 268-2111
Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/Camegie Mellon
University/Pittsburgh. PA 15213-3890
Funded In part by the Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.
Ubrary of Congress ISSN #: 0890-3107.
5Ies ds roG Gr G2s SIwwIds EEE GruIM
Jonathan Levy
As far as Im concerned, today 
should be a national holiday.
No, its not anybody in 
particulars birthday as far as I 
know  although I suppose 
theres about a one- in -10 chance 
that some president was born on 
April 8. And I dont recall anything 
of any exceptional military or
political significance happening 
on todays date.
In fact, the reason I think today 
should be a holiday has nothing 
to do with any historical event, or 
even with the exact date.
But today is an important day, 
nonetheless  probably the sec
ond most anxiously anticipated 
day of the year after Christmas.
By now, many of you probably 
have figured out what I am talk
ing about. But for the benefit of 
those readers who are a little slow 
or are being distracted by the lecToday is the first day of the major 
league baseball season! Ill pause for 
a moment to let some of you groan....
tures going on around them, Ill 
fill you in.
Today is the first day of the 
major league baseball season!
Ill pause for a moment here to 
let some of you groan and ask the
treasonous question, Why in the 
world should Opening Day be a 
national holiday?
[Pause for groans and treason.] 
After all, baseballis just a bunch 
of guys in stupid-looking uniforms
beating the hell out of a ball of 
yarn wrapped in a hunk of horse 
flesh, right?
Wrong!
Opening Day has most of the 
characteristics we look for in 
holidays. About how many other 
potential holidays can you say all 
of the following?
Its an ideal day to empty the 
schools, lock the office doors, and 
close the banks. A lot of people are 
going to take the day off anyway, 
so why go to the trouble of dockPlease see BASEBALL, page 12
Carnival revitalizes campus
Some weeks are easy. One 
prominent issue or idea rolls 
around in my head, and by Friday 
Im ready to spit out another 
missive to the campus community. 
Unfortunately, this hasnt been 
one of the easy weeks.
Ive got Iraqi-Kurdish conflict, 
Soviet instability, police brutality, 
and the untimely deaths of three 
prominent Republicans  which 
ties in quite neatly with the crisis 
in air travel. Im swamped with 
depressing reality, and I cant 
choose among these dreary alter
natives.
So this week Ill address a lighter, 
happier topic  the imminent 
arrival of Spring Carnival.
Several people, faculty and stu
dents alike, have recently noted 
the lack of cooperative activity 
here at Carnegie Mellon. Unlike 
other schools, CMU has few cen
tralizing community forces that 
help provide identity as a campus. 
We lack a common spirit; the sense 
of unity fostered on other cam
puses usually by strong student 
support for athletics  is notice
ably absent here.
It would be nice, I suppose, to
________________________Michael T. Rose
have that sort of coherent com
munity at CMU. With our frag
mented academic disciplines and 
parallel social stratification, 
however, I dont think its possible. 
Were too competitive with each 
other; we have too few opportu
nities to work together.
While Carnival doesnt resolve 
the problem of community for the 
campus as a whole, it does pro
vide an important opportunity for 
campus groups to concentrate 
their efforts. All year long, we 
pursue our individual academic 
goals; once a year we come to
gether and pursue other, less se
rious, objectives.
As Carnival proceeds, it has 
usually become clear that in some 
ways, we do come together as a 
campusfor a few days, we drop 
our books in a pile and join the 
fun.
During Carnival, all the 
grumpy bookworms and grind
students have a chance to emerge 
from their chrysalises and enjoy 
themselves. (Dont blow it, 
people.)
Personally, Im eagerly antici
pating this years Carnival, and 
not only because of the bitter
sweet realization that it will be 
my last as a student. Ive got a 
project to complete for my 
fraternitys lock-for-first-place 
booth, a high-powered alarm clock 
to wake me up for Sweepstakes, 
and a plum role in the Scotch N 
Soda show. To put the shine on an 
already exceptional Carnival, a 
favor I did for A Phi O has guaran
teed me all the free hot dogs and 
funnel cakes I can munch.
So if youre looking for me be
tween next Thursday and Satur
day, I wont be too hard to find. Ill 
be the one riding the bumper cars, 
wearing the Shogun shirt, hum
ming a song from dArtegan, eat
ing a funnel cake, and grinning 
like an idiot. I highly recommend 
you do the same.
Michael T. Rose is a senior pro
fessional writing major. He can 
eat his weight in funnel cakes.
HERBLOCK S CARTOON
"HELLO - NEW W0RLP ORPERS "
EVERYWHBKEYOU TOO CAA/ me A WAt WM m0&T 
mAPot 
EVER
U.S. ARMS SALES
deliver anyrthen>\ 
-----------/A

---------------------------------------------------

'fThe Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  8 April 1991
TInsSIww nGliesn roG im smGslGIimdsmG 8Iwos
What is the most boring thing 
that you can think of? Might it be 
a freshman level history course 
where half of the class is asleep 
before class even starts? Or maybe 
its one ofthese newspaper articles 
found in The Tartan. You know, 
the cure for insomnia when you 
cant find yoij.r psych book. Being 
here at CMU exposes you to a lot 
of boring things.
But do you know what I find 
most boring?
Baseball, golf, bowling, and 
fishing as spectator sports.
First of all, lets talk about bor
ing sports. Baseball ranks right 
up there with bowling, golf, and 
fishing as one of the most boring 
spectator sports around. Occa
sionally, I tune into the classic 
PBS TV show, This Old Fish, 
where the commentators break 
the monotony by telling jokes be
tween fish.
Bowling is fun, especially when 
youve been drinking, but to sit
Kevin Barney
there and watch middle-aged men 
throw balls down a lane is boring.
Why this is so exciting is be
yond me, but Ive seen crowds in 
the background cheer and scream 
for their favorite players.
Golf is a good way to get more 
middle-aged couch potatoes off the 
sofa and out playing a sport. Ac
cording to Websters, a sport is a 
physical activity engaged in for 
pleasure. The part of the defini
tion that golf doesnt adhere to is 
the physical. Perhaps the game 
was physical one day, but now 
there are golf carts, and the fat 
men just ride around. In my opin
ion, golf is not a sport  its an 
excuse for wasting potential park 
area.
But today is opening day for one
of the sports that attempts to find 
new heights of boredom.
Baseball. Where else can you 
find overweight men who chew 
tobacco, spitting wherever they 
want, waiting for something to 
happen so they can stand up and 
start bitching at something?
Note: Charles Barkley only fits 
into one of these categories and 
he was punished for his saliva 
antics.
Baseball. Its been called 
Americas national pastime. We, 
being Americans, have also been 
criticized for being lazy. I think 
there is a correlation here.
Baseball. Where else can you go 
on a beautiful Saturday afternoon 
and watch nine guys stand around 
waiting for a ball to come toward 
them? What a way to spend a 
beautiful day, when you could be 
doing something active or con
structive or not mind-numbing.
How much do these people get 
paid? Dwight Gooden just signed
a deal for $16.2 million for three 
years. Hes a good pitcher  Ill 
give him that  but good pitch
ers make the game even more 
boring to watch. A pitchers duel 
is as exciting as a religious pup
pet show.
Why is opening day such a big 
thing? One of my friends said that 
a baseball game is a good place to 
go with a bunch of friends.
With a good bunch of friends, I 
can have fun anywhere, at least 
until we get kicked out or ar
rested.
So I think that part of the reason 
that America is considered one of 
the best places for lazy people to be 
is due in part to baseball, our na
tional pastime, one of the most 
boring sports to watch.
Kevin Barney is a senior profes
sional writing major who is 
spending tonight doing something 
that will involve beer, not base
ball.
Bill of Rights must protect all personal expression
Richard Robinson
Its the latest thing in the free-speech 
war. A bill is reportedly being drafted 
that will protect the right of college stu
dents to say what they wish without 
being threatened by their university. Its 
about time free speech won a battle.
The bill resulted from an incident at 
Brown this semester. On January 25, 
junior Douglas Hann was expelled from 
Brown for yelling such obscenities as 
nigger, faggot, and Jew in the 
middle of campus while intoxicated.
When Hann was expelled, it was an
other blow from conservatives to curb 
the ability of people to express them
selves. Im not saying that it was right of 
Hann to yell nigger to his whole cam
pus, but to be expelled for it is crazy. It is 
his right to say what he wants.
The idea behind free speech is to allow 
people to express their thoughts and 
feelings without the fear that Big Brother 
is going to come crashing through their 
door to take them away.
Most people will remember the contro
versy, a few summers ago, over suppos
edly obscene art exhibitions. Pictures 
such as a crucifix sitting in a glass of urine 
offended some people. As a result, the 
exhibits were banned and our homophobic, 
Christian-based Congress passed a bill 
that prevented support money from going 
to artists who created offensive art.
Where is the reasoning behind this? A 
piece of art offends peoples faith because 
the artist used his art to voice his opinion 
of that faith. You might as well arrest the
The idea behind free speech is to allow 
people to express their thoughts and feelings 
without the fear that Big Brother will come 
crashing through their door...
Pope for saying that Islam is gaining too 
many followers and that good Catholics 
should go out and actively convert people.
It is the same principle. The Pope is effec
tively saying that Islam is a worthless faith 
that is damning people to hell and all 
Catholics should lead the stray sheep back to 
the flock The artist simply said that he 
thought that the Christian faith was piss.
The problem is its normal to be a Chris
tian. And when you offend the group in 
power, it will use that power to stop you.
For example, why is there no law against 
white supremacists holding rallies against 
blacks? Most likely because there arent 
many black people in power. Therefore, it 
falls under the heading of free speech. The 
Moral Majority can understand the 
American Nazis right to put down blacks, 
but put down one of their own kind and the 
Moral Majority hits the roof.
Everyone has the right to their own 
opinion and the right to express it. No
where does it say in the Bill of Rights that
art is not a legal form of expression. It has 
been, and most likely always will be, a 
major force in the world. Music today is 
shaping the way we look at the world. 
Novels, poems, and news editorials are all 
art forms that expresses the creators ideas.
For years, the government has listened 
to groups like the PMRC that think they 
have the right to act as mother to the 
country. This has led to the demise of 
politically active musical groups like the 
Dead Kennedys, and the restriction of 
access to many forms of art, from music to 
sculpture to literature.
Free speech may actually win a round 
and certify free speech on college cam
puses. But the problem of censorship will 
remain. We must all keep fighting for our 
right to express ourselves, or we lose the 
ability to be ourselves.
Richard Robinson is a junior IM major. '
hrds nblimg I Mrom dIman G2ro2Gn Golm Gr EEE SInsSIww
When the hubbub of life over in 
Avon Park sets your nerves jan
gling, you can drive down the un
dulating road to Wauchula, a 
hamlet set in the center of Hardee 
County, in the center of the penin
sula, midway between most places. 
Far from Floridas beach-front 
condominiums and flashy tourist 
attractions, the Hardee Wildcats 
are hosting the St. Albans Bull
dogs, who are down from Wash
ington, rounding into shape for the 
high school baseball season.
The night is cool but the coffee 
at the concession stand is hot and 
strong and a smattering of high 
school girls wearing shorts and 
tans and orange satin Hardee 
jackets glow beneath the lights. 
After a rocky start, this trip has 
righted itself.
Picture this. Since September, 
about three dozen teenage boys  
a critical mass of critical masses 
have put up with school and winter 
so they could get down here for the 
pleasure of eating badly and play
ing ball. And it has rained.
They are living on donuts, pizza 
and, round about midnight, nachos 
from the Circle K store out on the 
highway that is sown so thick with 
fast-food joints that just a drive 
down it elevates your cholesterol.
George F. Will
Furthermore, something in  or 
perhaps not yet in  these crea
tures causes them to express 
emancipation from parents by 
dropping Doritos into the reten
tive shag of a motel carpet.
There are serious sides  well, 
sliversto the trip. For example, 
the shortstop was sent south 
packing a stack of 3 x 5 cards 
containing SAT vocabulary words. 
One afternoon found him stand
ing at a pay phone along U.S. 
Route 27, getting a long-distance 
vocabulary quiz, administered by 
his father, as the 18-wheelers 
whined by, hauling oranges north.
The other night the Bulldogs 
were rolling, 9-1, over Avon Parks 
Red Devils. Then the wheels fell 
off. A relief pitcher found the plate 
moving around on him and a Red 
Devil homered over the best out
field fence sign in America: Beef 
and Baseball. Thats it. Thats 
enough. It is put there by a local 
ranch that understands the two 
basic food groups.
Anyway, there were eight Red 
Devil runs, then extra innings, 
before the Bulldogs won. It was a
victory doubly sweet because it 
came on hallowed ground: Tom 
Flash Gordon of the Kansas City 
Royals began his ascent to glory 
from Avon Parks pitchers mound.
The Bulldogs win again the next 
night in Wauchula. After the game 
the Wildcats grab rakes and re
store the infields smoothness, 
getting the everyday sport ready 
for tomorrow. The Bulldogs 
sprawl on the wet grass for a 
critique from their coach. He is 
wise beyond his years  26 of 
them  and bilingual, fluent in 
English and a dialect, baseball.
We had too many backward 
Ks tonight. K is the scoring sym
bol for a strikeout; a backward K 
indicates a third called strike. 
That is a quick way to get to the 
pine  to get benched. The re
liever who got lit up by Avon Park 
did well tonight and is praised for 
getting back on the horse. Now 
its nacho time.
In our sun-down perambula
tions of late, wrote Walt Whitman 
in 1846, through the outer parts
The Civil WargA which moved millions of young men hither 
and yon, acquainting them with the variety of American 
experiences, simultaneously spread baseball like honey 
across bread. It has been everywhere ever since.
of Brooklyn, we have observed 
several parties of youngsters 
playing TDase, a certain game of 
ball. We wish such sights were 
more common among us. 
Whitm an didnt have long to wait.
Lincolnintercededfor boys whose 
ballgame had been shooed off the 
White House lawn. The Civil War, 
which moved millions ofyoungmen 
hither and yon, acquainting them 
with the variety of American ex
periences, simultaneously spread 
baseball like honey across bread. 
It has been everywhere ever since: 
When Geronimo escaped from a 
reservation near Fort Apache, sol
diers had to stop a baseball game 
to saddle up.
Every spring baseball brings 
American boys to places they 
would never visit, or even hear of. 
Some of the boys from Washing
ton were hauled off the see Lon
don, Paris, and Florence before 
they were allowed to see 
Kissimmee, Okeechobe, and 
Frostproof  the music of Ameri
can names!  but I will wager 
they learned more of lasting value 
along Floridas backroads then 
ever they did being marched 
through Florences Uffizi gallery. 
I know they had more fun.
For many fans this spring, the 
flavor of the dawning baseball 
season is being soured by the wellpublicized tantrums of a few
players at the pinnacle of 
baseballs steep pyramid. They 
are childish men who wonder 
aloud whether they can be moti
vated by a mere $2 million or so. 
But down at the pyramids broad 
base, boys still play for the sheer 
exhilaration of mastering the sat
isfying pressures of this pretty 
game that they play in front of 
small, quiet crowds  mostly 
family and friends  after a 
scratchy recording of the national 
anthem and before late-night 
pizza back on the highway.
George Will is a syndicated col
umnist with the Washington Post 
Writers Group.
Study Social Sciences in London
Study Year Abroad, Postgraduate Diplomas, 
One-Year Master's Degrees and Research 
Opportunities in the Social Sciences.
Subjects include:-
Accounting and Finance  Actuarial Science  Business 
Studies  Economics  Econometrics  Economic 
History  European Studies  Geography  Government  
Health Planning  Housing  Industrial Relations  
Information Systems  International HistoryInternational 
Relations Law  Management Operational Research 
Philosophy, Logic & Scientific Method Population Studies 
Politics  Regional & Urban Planning  Sea Use Policy* 
Social Administration  Social Anthropology  Social Plan
ning in Developing Countries  Social Work  Sociology 
Social Psychology  Statistics & Mathematical Sciences*
PiiratesaHo mHOpn vOHpj
Pnnanseos KgansOeO (CPSS)j HHp H616j
LHodHo SthHHr Hm EtHoHpatn eod PHrasater StaKotK 
HHughsHo SsOKKsj LHodHo WC2P 2PEj Eogreod 
nsesaog whKshKO uodKOgOeduesK HO iHnsgOeduesK
More Than 
Copies
Floppy Disks 
FAX Service 
Resumes
Collating & Binding.
Laser'typesetting 
Instant Passport Photos 
Pick-lJp & Delivery 
Office Supplies
3710 Forbes 
Ave.(next to 
McDonalds) 
3945 Forbes 
Ave.
OPEN 24 HOURS *
fcinko's
the copy center
r
The
DESIGNER PERMiv *30.00
Complete with written 
guarantee
The
PRECISION CUTonly $"14.00
Complete with shampoo 
and blow style
There's nothing like a 
good play followed by a 
quiet dinner for two"
I prefer two tickets to 
watch my favorite team 
play.-
Wrong. Nothing 
compares to a great rock 
concert!*
No matter what your 
style, you can be sure 
you'll get the latest In 
hnir fashions at Great 
Expectations. The one 
salon for everyone.
assr" GUREflJ CKPCCTBTItnS
PRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
JUST-A-CUT
only 0.00
Cut only
n$2.00 OFF
3 rm I
Precision Haircut |
. (complete w/ wash & style) .
Expires April 30,1991 
I Not valid with any other offer I 
Jfl^THAVECOUPON____|
Also
Available:
Perms
Coloring
Frosting
Conditioning
L: CG9rru yGlssG 
NB:z6ff


---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  8 April 1991''
C x$DyJcYy
The Syria Mosque has been sold 
for $10 million to developers 
who plan to raze it and construct 
an office building. How do you 
feel about the planned de
struction of the Syria 
Mosque?
Nicole Newbura 
Temporary Staff 
Physical Plant
Ripping that down will 
detract from this areas contem
porary culture. Without the 
Syria Mosque, I dont know 
where the concerts will go. Also, 
there is no draw in this area for 
office buildings.
Jaedeok Yoo 
Senior
Mechanical Engineering/ 
Material Science
Actually, I guess it is a great 
loss for local cultural events.
Brent Thomas 
Sophomore
Computer Engineering
I feel that we dont need any 
more office buildings in Oak
land. The Syria Mosque is such 
a rocking place. They shouldnt 
tear it down.
Sun Kim 
Sophomore 
Computer Science
I dont want to see it tom 
down. I think its a shame to 
tear it down because it has a 
special meaning.
Freeman/Tartan Photo Staff Manager 
Lisa Colosimo 
Senior
Mathematics/Computer
Science
I dont think its a good 
thing because there arent too 
many places close to campus 
where you can go to concerts 
or Greek Sing. It just makes it 
harder to get off campus and 
have a good time.
xlrSwsdng mrG bIteIimg donG usGsldims rbimirm
9
Javier Grillo-Marxuach
Stop.
What are you saying?
The most lucrative game in town has 
nothing to do with material objects. 
Packaging and marketing an opinion 
takes very little effort. It takes even less 
effort to form an opinion which will ap
pear compelling without truly address
ing any of the problems it pretends to.
It is no longer necessary to pretend 
that something is desperately wrong and 
has to be corrected immediately. All that 
is needed to raise an issue to the forefront 
of the nations consciousness is the idea 
that something has to be addressed; con
troversy inevitably follows.
Controversy is like a drug, and anyone
who can form an opinion is a potential 
user. The belief that one has formed a 
relevant opinion on any topic, no matter 
how irrelevant that topic may be, or how 
fleeting the attention to said topic may 
be, is one of the greatest highs an indi
vidual can attain.
But it is a short-lived high, because 
issues are designed to have a short-term 
life span. The market thrives because 
the issues which are tossed for public 
consumption without any connection 
either to each other or to the future or 
past, and when issues are connected to 
one another in the popular media (as in 
pomography/rape), it is usually because 
the synergy will create a rush of an even 
greater magnitude.
The result of the huckstering of ideas 
is not only increased revenues, circula
tion, and ratings, but also a false sense of 
liberty and liberation. Freedom of speech 
- in itself one of the most easily recy
Controversy is like a drug, and anyone who 
can form an opinion is a potential user.
clable issues of our time  is a relative 
term, dependent not only on who con
trols the outlets for expression but also 
on the amount of information made 
readily accessible at the time in which an 
issue is given importance.
The existence and expression of indi
vidual thought and opinion are crucial to 
the functioning of a democratic society, 
but the popular media hawks the issues 
in such a way that even those with the 
most limited access to information can 
form an opinion which will appear rel
evant.
Using the facts presented in the 
media in order to construct a position of 
support or opposition is probably more
dangerous than the problem on which 
one is forming an opinion.
The CNNs and USA Todays, and even 
the Times and Newsweeks, pretend to 
cover a picture full enough to allow any 
individual all of the information neces
sary to form an illuminating opinion on 
an issue. Paying heed to this pretension 
in the expression of an individual opin
ion is a concession to the commercializa
tion of ideas.
Voicing an opinion which is informed 
solely by the apparatus which created 
the controversy in the first place is not an 
expression of freedom of speech: It is the 
consumption of the easily digestible false 
social consciousness which the issue-ofthe-day represents. What appears to be 
an individual expression has become 
nothing more than an addition to the 
hype.
Perhaps the only fact that can be taken 
as such is that any one' of the issues 
which is presented for the consumption 
of the masses is probably a more compli
cated and involved in more deep- rooted, 
harder to addressand therefore harder 
to commercialize  causes, and that 
complicity in the media blitz will only 
create further simplification.
Before talking hard and fast, it may be 
wise to make sure we do not trip over our 
own contradictions. When political con
sciousness is a commodity which can be 
bought for the price of a magazine, dis
sent and consent only serve to feed the 
bonfire of stupidity.
Javier Grillo-Marxuach is a senior . 
creative writing/LCS major.
TlIuM Siww dinnsn dIle rm om trmGlrw
Richard Cohen
It is my conviction that if Ro
nald Reagan endorsed Darwinian 
evolution, he would be extrava
gantly praised for the boldness of 
thinking and George Bush, 
ever the follower, would be ru
mored to be thinking things over. 
This is what happened with the 
Brady bill.
A full decade after John 
Hinckley Jr. shot Reagan and 
severely wounded his press sec
retary, James S. Brady, the former 
president endorsed a bill that 
would require a seven-day waitperiod for the purchase of a 
handgun.
The so-called Brady bill, 
championed by Brady and his in
defatigable wife, Sarah, is now 
thought to stand a good chance of 
becoming law. Such is the pres
tige of Reagan.
But as is often the case with 
Reagan, his prestige seems to rest 
on being the last person to come 
to grips with reality. Even then, 
this tepid measureby no means 
a true gun-control bill  was en
dorsed by the former president in
words so carefully chosen that 
only the punctilious reader would 
understand its limitations. Writ
ing in The New York Times, 
Reagan said that if the bill had 
been law 10 years ago, Hinckleys 
shooting spree might never have 
happened.
The operative word is might. 
In the first place, Hinckley bought 
his gun, a .22-caliber Germanmade (but American-assembled) 
RoehmRG14, on October 13,1980
 a lot more than a week before 
he gunned down Reagan, Brady, 
and two law-enforcement officials 
on March 30,1981.
The purchase, in fact, followed 
by only four days his arrest in 
Nashville when he attempted to 
board a plane with three guns. 
The guns were seized but Hinckley 
was freed after paying a fine of 
$62.50.
Aha, I hear you say, the Brady 
bill would have made a difference: 
The gun store owner would have 
checked with the police and dis
covered that Hinckley had been 
arrested in Nashville and had 
used a false Texas address. A week 
later, Hinckley would have been 
denied his gun.
Trouble is, the Brady bill does
not require local police depart
ments to do anything. They can 
check if they want or they can not 
check if they want. In Hinckleys 
case, the Dallas police might not 
even have discovered that 
Hinckley had been arrested in 
Nashville. Not even the Secret 
Service had been notified of that 
incident, as federal guidelines 
require. Maybe Hinckley would 
have been tripped up for using a 
false address  and then again, 
maybe not.
For all the hoopla  imagine! 
Ronald Reagan writing for The 
New York Times  the Brady bill 
is no panacea for Americas con
siderable handgun problem an 
estimated 60 million to 70 million 
in circulation.
Its aims are modest. It would 
compel a certain number of hot
heads to cool off and, if adminis
tered diligently, it would deny 
guns to criminals or madmen. In 
1990, California turned down 
2,182 such sales.
But the main cause of the hand
gun problem, the unequivocal 
right of most Americans to buy a 
pistol, would not be changed by 
this bill.
The Brady bill is just the best
gun control advocates could do 
under the circumstances. Those 
circumstances are such that last 
year Speaker of the House Tom 
Foley (D - Wash.) blocked the in
nocuous Brady bill from even 
getting to the floor.
Such is the power of the gun 
lobby or such is the political 
cowardice of Foley  you make 
the choice.
I hardly mean to denigrate the 
Brady bill or belittle the accom
plishment of the Bradys. They 
have been effective, courteous 
proponents of gun limitations and 
their bill, for all its shortcomings, 
is a step in the right direction. 
And because it is a step, the Na
tional Rifle Association has vigor
ously opposed it  pretending 
that it would actually restrict the 
so-called rights of gun owners.
It will do little to restrict gun 
sales and the NRA knows it. But 
it does set something of a prece
dent and the NRA knows that, 
too.
Handguns have become an 
American anachronismas much 
an urban plague as the rats that 
infected Hamlin. Last year, they 
accounted for about 23,000 deaths, 
Please see REAGAN, page 12
HERBLOCK S CARTOON
"HES HiHT ABOUT KE PEATH PEtttlTIES TOO- OUR CUSTOMERS 0W HAftP OUT LOTS (ff THEM
KOKE 
cJ 4C353c-NRA
asiifed.e
t 119
LOSE 20 POUNDS IN TWO WEEKS!
Famous U.S. Women's Ski Team Diet
During the non-snow off season the U.S. Women's Alpine Ski Team 
Members used the "Ski Team" diet to lose 20 pounds in two weeks. That's right  
20poundsinl4 days! The basis ofthediet is chemical food action and was devised 
^ a famous Colorado physician especially for the U.S. Ski Team. Normal energy 
13 maintained (very important!) while reducing. You keep "full" no starvation 
because the diet is designed that way. It's a diet that is easy to follow whether 
you work, travel or stay at home.
This is, honestly, a fantastically successful diet. If it weren't, the U.S. 
Women's Ski Team wouldn't be permitted to use it! Right? So, give yourself the 
^ame break the U.S. Ski Team gets. Lose weight the scientific, proven way. Even 
you've tried all the other diets, you owe it to yourself to try the U.S. Women's Ski 
Team Diet. That is, if you really do want to lose 20 pounds in two weeks. Order 
today. Tear this out as a reminder.
Send only SI 0.00 (SI 0.50 for Rush Service) - to: SlimQuik, P.O.Box 103, 
^ept. 2R, Hayden, ID 83835. Don't order unless you want to lose 20 pounds in 
two weeks! Because that's what the Ski Team Diet will do.  1990
-resli homeade dough spun right before your eyes...#
16 CHEESE PIZZA 
$2.99
Offer good Sunday thru Thursday
Original Hotdog Shop 
3901 Forbes Ave. Oakland
Phone 621 -0453 I wivJ
Offer not good for delivery
Now available Friday and SaturdayOne 16 Pizza only $4.49
The London School of Economics & Political Science
I INTERNATIONAL SUMMER SCHOOL IN ECONOMICS 
, 1 July - 9 August, 1991.
 Intensive, high quality short course programme
 Courses led by senior members of LSE Economics 
Faculty and distinguished visiting professors 
from Yale and the London Business School
 Structured teaching methods - including tuition 
in small class groups
 Recognised by the Graduate School at the LSE 
and other leading graduate programmes
 Prestigious international arena -
in 1990 260 delegates enrolled from 45 countries
Tuition Fees:
1 session  595
2 sessions 1025
Second Session July 22-August 9
 Introductory Microeconomics
 Mathematics for Economists
 Intermediate Microeconomics 
. Economics of Transition
 Finance
 Economics of European Integration
First Session July 1-July 19 
Introductory Macroeconomics
 Principles of Accounting
 Intermediate Macroeconomics
 Introduction to Econometrics
 Business Strategy
 Advanced Economic Analysis
 Development Economics
All courses offer 50 contact hours and are examined and certificated 
The LSE is accredited by m^jor universities throughout North America
Accommodation: available in LSE residences in central London and 
prestigious Docklands locations
Further Details from: The Programme Director 
International Summer School in Economics 
London School of Economics, Houghton Street 
London WC2A 2AE Tel: 071 955 7554 Fax: 071 831 1840

---------------------------------------------------

'LThe Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  8 April 1991
HERBLOCKS CARTOON
"SIR, IF YOU COULP PLEAS mO<IRSLAU6HTfflft 
QUIfTLY WHILE WE'RE CfLEBRATW M <51m 
VICTORY OVER YOU"
2)1 f 9
pIes Jbsmim RIM I 2rwiuIM
BASEBALL, from page 9
ing pay and keeping track of who 
cut class? Just legitimize the 
whole thing and cash in on the 
resulting good will by making 
everyone work twice as hard for 
the rest of the week.
The nation wouldnt even lose 
that much productivity by giving 
everybody the day off. How much 
are people going to get done when 
they have to spend the morning 
thinking up excuses to cancel their 
afternoon meetings? Similarly, 
what are students going to learn 
today except how to run a head
phone wire from a jacket pocket 
to ones ear without the teacher 
seeing it?
And do you really want to go to 
the bank today, anyway, knowing 
that the person counting your 
money has baseball on the brain 
and thinks the number following 
three is and one?
 Opening Day would be a great 
spring holiday. Virtually every 
religion has a holiday at this time 
of year to celebrate rebirth and 
hope. Easter and Passover are 
okay, but what better symbol of 
starting anew could there be than
Like all great holidays, Opening Day is 
on a Monday, providing a three day 
weekend.
having the Cleveland Indians and 
Atlanta Braves in first place? For 
that matter, what better symbol 
of blind faith in the face of all 
reason is there than the people 
who sincerely believe they will be 
there in September?
April is one of only two months 
this year with no major holiday. 
(The other is August.)
Going to a baseball game in
corporates everything great about 
America. The game starts with 
the national anthem to get every
body in the proper patriotic mood. 
One then spends the next three 
hours strengtheningthe economy 
by buying overpriced American 
beer and exercising ones consti
tutional right to free speech by 
yelling, Kill the umpire! Even 
the economics of baseball high
light the best of the American
capitalistic system by providing a 
smooth transfer of wealth from 
the poor to the rich.
Like all great holidays, Open
ing Day is on a Monday, providing 
a three day weekend.
The case for making Opening 
Day a national holiday is clear 
and I think we all should sit down 
today and write to our elected 
representatives demanding that 
it become one.
Actually, on second thought, 
lets do it tomorrow.
Jonathan Levy is a second year 
S UP A masters student andal 990 
Biology Department alumnus. He 
is not skipping his evening class 
tonight to go to the ballgame and 
he hopes his professor will re
member that fact when it comes 
time to hand out grades.
Reagan 
endorses 
gun control
REAGAN, from page 11
about 10,000 of them homi
cides. God knows how many 
other people were wounded, 
paralyzed orno small thing
 scared to death by guns.
People who live in nations 
with sane gun laws cannot 
fathom Americas tolerance for 
handguns.
Increasingly, neither can a 
growing number of Ameri
cans. Yet it took the mun
dane observation of Ronald 
Reagan to give the timid Bush 
White House the political 
cover it needed to possibly 
drop its opposition to the 
Brady bill.
Ah, such political courage! 
We await a Reagan statement 
on infant mortality.
Richard Cohen is a syndi
cated columnist with the 
Washington Post Writers 
Group.
Letters to the Editor
LETTERS, from page 8
of those individuals and organizations 
working against sexism and rape is to 
perpetuate the sense of hopelessness and 
the lack of sympathy and support he 
deems so important to survivors of 
discrimination, harassment, rape, and 
other offenses.
Mr. Levy writes: I dont blame the 
person who is victimized when there is 
no reasonable way he or she could have 
anticipated or avoided the problem. He 
suggests the victim or potential victim 
avoid the problem by not knowingly and 
willingly walking into a situation where 
others have been victimized before. If I, 
as a woman, were to abide by this logic, 
I would be forced to stay in my room with 
my door locked for the rest of my life and 
even that would not be a guarantee 
against victimization. Women are and 
have been raped in every kind of circum
stance and location. Should all women 
avoid walking in the park? Walking down 
the street in broad daylight? Going into 
an office alone with a man? Attending 
male dominated educational institu
tions? In addition to rape, sexist dis
crimination occurs everywhere. How am 
I to avoid it? Furthermore, Mr. Levy 
suggests that by avoiding it, sexism will 
disappear. This implies that the pres
ence of the victim instigates sexism, that 
she is the source. This is like saying that 
people of color are the causes of racism, 
therefore, non-white people should avoid 
contact with white people. This is be
yond absurdity.
No one ever volunteers to be victimized 
as Mr. Levy states. Unfortunately, the 
attitude of Mr. Levys column is all too 
pervasive. Even people who are the ob
jects of discrimination internalize the 
blame-the-victim attitude and blame 
themselves. When we stop blaming the 
victim and start blaming those actively 
responsible and holdingthem accountable, 
discrimination, sexism, and rape might be 
alleviated. When we start educating our
selves and othersa truly active strategy
 against these wrongs and injustices 
they will stop. When we use what power 
we have to stop perpetuating sexism and 
to actively correct discrimination, it will 
stop. The victim is never to blame, and for 
Mr. Levy to suggest otherwise perpetu
ates victimization.
Finally, it is an affront to, and denial 
of, the intelligence and creativity of the 
CMU community to suggest that all of 
us, and most especially the perpetrators 
of injustice, cannot work against these 
problems, and that we must pawn off the
work to those the least responsible, the 
victims.
Justine Dymond 
Junior, H&SS
Column not attack on 
Financial Aid services
on
qsGGsl Gr 
G2s $uiGrl
Editor:
In my last column 
[Fraternities pay for 
University neglect 
...again, 3/18], a com
ment I made was taken 
out of context. I mentioned that my fa
ther had lost his job and I was not getting 
financial aid. The Financial Aid office 
took this as an attack on their office, but 
I did not intend it to be.
I did not mean to present any of my 
personal problems. The reason I men
tioned my problem was to try to illus
trate the problems many students have 
with money.
Currently, many students are on fi
nancial aid, meaning that they cannot 
afford to go to CMU with the amount of 
money their parents make. For the Uni
versity office pushing through the lease 
increase on the fraternity houses, this 
should be an import fact in making its 
decision on forcing the students to pay 
for its negligence in maintaining the 
houses properly.
Financial Aid and the Career Center 
are the only two administrative offices 
that seem to still care about the stu
dents. This is perplexing, since the rest 
of the administration still depends on 
the students to keep CMU on the top of 
high-quality learning institutions.
In my column, I came to the conclusion 
that the officials pushing through the 
lease increase were wrong because the 
problems they present that need to be 
fixed could not have come about if proper 
care was taken to keep the houses up to 
Pittsburgh housing code compliance.
In addition, I attempted to explain 
that many students have problems pay
ing for CMU as it is. To charge these 
students the money that officials are 
pushing for is ludicrous. Many of these 
students, even with financial aid help, 
will not be able to cover the costs. They 
will have to transfer to a less expensive, 
probably less prestigious school, to fin
ish their education. And only because 
they can not afford a prestigious name.
I did not mean to discredit Financial 
Aid. If anything, Financial Aid should be
commended for its support of the stu
dents. The point I was trying to make 
with my comment is that it is unfair to 
charge students for something that is 
not their fault, especially when they do 
not have the money to pay for it.
The University should not pass the 
buck because it failed to keep the frater
nity houses up to code and is now forced 
to give the students proper living quar
ters. The students did not renege on any 
promise to maintain the houses  the 
University did.
Rich Robinson
Junior, Industrial Management
SUPA survey emphasizes 
student concerns
Editor: ^ Oi
As public disclosure 
tends to enhance ac
countability, the foi-. qsGGsl Gr 
lowing information is +l|e Editor 
offered for the public 
record.
Perhaps some of you will recall the 
letter to the editor about Dean Blumstein 
[Dean of SUPA must be removed, 1/ 
28]. In an effort to verify that more than 
just some students were concerned 
about the state of affairs at SUPA, some 
students took it upon themselves to de
velop a petition which would allow stu
dents to indicate, given the 11 issues 
originally brought up in the letter, those 
with which they were particularly con
cerned.
In all, 65 signatures were collected in a 
two-and-a-half day period. (This time limit 
was self-imposed and, thus, those collecting 
signatures were unable to reach all SUPA 
students.) These 65 students represent 
approximately 40 percent of the combined 
first and second year classes at SUPA.
The tabulation of the survey results, 
by issue, along with some of the com
ments made in support of the students 
concerns is given below:
Sixteen students indicated concern 
about the composition of the assessment 
committee: two of the committee mem
bers are full-time faculty members at 
SUPA (one of these is an untenured, jun
ior, assistant professor); two of the five 
committee members have joint appoint
ments at SUPA; Dean Blumstein was the 
thesis supervisor for one of the committee 
members; research money from SUPA 
has gone to at least two of the committee 
members; and one of the committee mem
bers was also a member of the Selection/ 
Search Committee that recommended 
Dean Blumstein for his position.
Fifty-six students indicated concern 
about the quality of SUPAs curriculum: 
the SUPA challenge arises from the 
quantity of the work assigned, not the 
quality of the work demanded; the classes 
are watered down; and the class sizes are 
too large.
Thirty-nine students indicated concern 
about the quality of SUPAs faculty: 
SUPA has lost professors who graduated 
from Harvard, Stanford, and Minnesota 
and has replaced these professors with 
people who have graduated from far less 
prestigious universities; adjunct profes
sors and instructors teach core courses; 
and too little emphasis is placed on 
teaching performance.
Forty-three students indicated concern 
about the diversity of SUPAs faculty (if 
SUPA wants a diverse student body, it 
ought to have a diverse faculty): SUPA 
has no full-time black faculty on campus 
(one is on leave); and SUPA has very few 
female faculty members.
Thirty students indicated concern 
about the faculty turnover rate at SUPA.
Twenty-four students indicated con
cern about the morale of the faculty of 
the staff.
Twenty-six students indicated concern 
about the quality of the SUPAs Masters of 
Public Management (MPM) (SUPAs ex
ecutive education program) program: the 
courses are generally taught by adjuncts; 
the courses are watered down; given the 
size ofthe MPM program, SUPAis evolving 
into a night school; and the MPMs are 
mass-produced.
Forty-one students indicated concern 
about the way SUPA is marketed: mar
keted as an MBA program; marketed in 
a different way to black students; the 
modes chosen to market SUPAs pro
grams; and advertising five areas of con
centration when this is basically an il
lusion.
Forty-one students indicated concern 
about SUPAs financial aid policies: offer 
students just enough money to get them to 
attend; the administration of the HUD 
scholarships; and the preferential treat
ment given to some students.
Seventeen students indicated concern 
about SUPAs personnel policies.
Twenty-six students indicated concern 
about SUPAs administrative structure.
These tabulations were provided to Steve 
Klepper, chairman of Dean Blumsteins 
Assessment Committee, and to Dean 
Blumstein a few weeks ago; the names of
the students were withheld as some stu
dents fear retaliation due tz tlieir involve
ment with the petition. A high ranking 
member of President Mehrabians admin
istration, however, was given a complete 
copy of the results of the petition along 
with the names of the students partici
pating.
It is my understanding that, as a re
sult of the petition, an independent ex
amination into the concerns raised by 
SUPA students is being conducted. The 
results of this examination will be given 
to President Mehrabian (presumably, he 
is the one who will make the final reap
pointment decision) in order to provide 
him with information that he may com
pare with the information contained in 
the evaluation provided by the Assess
ment Committee.
A full report of the findings of the 
independent examination will be released 
after the report is submitted to Presi
dent Mehrabian.
On April 3,1991, Dean Blumstein held 
a general discussion with SUPA stu
dents to discuss with us some of our ques
tions and concerns. (A copy of the memo 
concerning this general discussion was 
forwarded to President Mehrabian and to 
the editor-in-chief of The Tartan with 
note requesting that each dispatch 
member of his/her staff to attend. No 
representative from either office was in 
attendance.)
After Dean Blumsteins discourse re
garding the particulars of the SUPA 
graduation ceremony and the status ofthe 
schools faculty requirement efforts, the 
following major topics were discussed: the 
degree of challenge presented by the SUPA 
curriculum, both in the day and MPM 
classes; the schools financial aid policies; 
the extent to which certain topics ar 
covered repeatedly (overlapping content 
of courses); and the efficiency of faculty 
advisors.
It may be of general interest to report; 
that at the April 3 meeting, in response tcj 
a direct question, Dean Blumstein statec 
that SUPAs personnel policies, durin{ 
his tenure as dean, have conformed with 
the prohibitions/provisions set forth in 
Title VII ofthe Civil Rights Act, specifically] 
those provisions/prohibitions with regar< 
to sex and age discrimination.
These facts are respectfully submittec 
for the record and will hopefully be of 
interest to the CMU community.
Jari M. Kowalski 
Graduate student, School of Urban; 
and Public Affairs
1l
1r9 ur Mro lsnbrmu Gr OFome pIiwK
When you Mass-mail your resume, that happens.
Automated Job Search
with yzhIlsslc$5
Resume Exchange Services
 Employers see actual resume
 Exposure to employers nationwide
 Confidential handling
 Employers contact you
 No reject letters
 Full Year of showing, only $19.95
Call and ask for more information
1 -800-FOCUS 1 1 24 hrs/day
TOSHIBA
1200XE
^0^1-nV": ou -20/40 MB hard disk 
-80C286 AT processor 
-12 Mhz, 1MB RAM, 7.9 Ibs 
-3.5" 1.44 MB FDD
UNIVERSITY DISCOUNTS
DSR, INC
Cali 800-875-0037
VISA & MASTERCARD AcceDted
Weekend Buffet 
All you can eat only $6.95 
Friday & Saturday 5-9:00 
p.m.
Sunday 12:00-3:00 p.m.
61Dvr ovv Restaurant
For take out call:621-6199m m
Daily Lunch Special
 one entree over rice
 with chefs special soup
 and served with tea
 and fortune cookie
 only  $3.79
4609 Centre Ave., 
N. Oakland/Shadyside Area 
(across from Giant Eagle)

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
psman wItlrnns 
nGIwwn im nsdin
By ALIM RAY
Tartan Sports Editor
CMU and Pitt hosted the first 
annual Pittsburgh Lacrosse 
Shootout Friday through Sunday. 
CMU lost in the semifinal round 
of the championship bracket on 
Sunday.
The tournament consisted of 
Buffalo State University, CMU, 
Denison Dowling College, Ohio 
State University, Pittsburgh La
crosse club, and West Virginia 
Wesleyan. Games were played at 
Pitt and Gesling Stadium on Fri
day and Saturday but the semifi
nals and championships were held 
in Gesling.
In CMUs first game the team 
was able to beat an Ohio State 
team without all of its players, 
10-5. Alarge part of the team was 
still travelling to Pittsburgh.
On Saturday, CMU lost a fairly 
close match to Dowling 107. At 
half-time CMU was down 25 but 
closed the gap to 7-8 in the fourth 
period. Dowling then scored two
quick goals to put the game out of 
reach for CMU.
Later that same day, CMU de
feated Denison with ease. The 
score was 3-2 in the first period 
but CMU took control from then 
on, winning 10-2.
The semifinals and champion
ship games were held at Gesling 
Stadium on Sunday. Carnegie 
Mellon came up short in a close 
game with the Pittsburgh La
crosse Club. CMU was down 
again, this time 3-5 in the third 
period, but came back to force a 
6-6 tie. The game went into sud
den death overtime where PLC 
won 7-6. PLC went on to win the 
tournament over Buffalo 8-6.
CMU Captain Peter Vondeleith 
was pleased with the progression 
of his teams play during the 
tournament, even though the 
team lost its semifinal match. In 
the first three games of the tour
nament we were pretty slow. We 
came back [from spring break] 
with not too many practices, 
Vondeleith said.
4rdsman wItlrnns 
usksIGn 2i2 nt2rrw
By STEPHEN KANG
Tartan Staffwriter
The CMU womens lacrosse 
team played a scrimmage game 
against the Winchester Thurston 
High School team Wednesday.
The game was quick-paced with 
a one hour running time rule. 
CMU trailed 3-5 at halftime, due 
to a lack of bench support. How
ever, CMU played a hard game to 
eventually pull out a 9-8 win. 
Graduate student Carolyn 
Pfatteicher scoredthree goals and 
chalked up one assist for CMU.
Sophomore Shannon Hayes and 
graduate student Vemice Chen 
each also had three goals. Also, 
freshman Vrushali Ranadive had 
two assists.
CMU played a strong defensive 
second half. Even though it was 
only a scrimmage, the CMU 
womens lacrosse team got a big 
boost in their confidence from this 
win. As the team continues to 
improve and play better together, 
it will participate in the tourna
ment at Pitt Stadium this Sun
day. West Virginia University and 
Allegheny College will also be 
there.
Sophomore Mike Klawansky of the mens ultimate frisbee team flings a pass in practice Thursday as 
alumnus Mark Schultz stops in his tracks. The team was practicing for a the Ivy's Plus tournament In 
Haverford, PA.
4rdsman tls9 bwItsn IG Fr2mn 1rbeimn DsIGGI
PRESS PASS
tb 1206( -836(2Th
DsIw nbrlGn 
2slrsn nGlows 
krl lstrmiGirm
I have a little quiz for all you 
sports fans out there. Which one 
of the following situations 
doesnt belong?
Last season, Oakland 
Athletics slugger Jose Canseco 
slammed the As management 
| as being racist when they didnt 
give him a contract comparable 
[ to that of San Francisco Giant 
I WiH Clark.
Pittsburgh outfielder Barry 
! Bonds, last seasons Most 
Valuable Player, unhappy with 
j his present contract, went on a 
8 profanity-laced tirade to reporti ers, and he followed up with a
* shouting match against Pirate 
manager Jim Leyland.
Sticking with MVPs, Oak. land outfielder Rickey 
Henderson walked out of camp 
| because the contract he had 
signed a month earlier, putting 
him among the top five highestpaid players in baseball, now 
only puts him in the mid| thirties in salary rankings.
When signed as a Plan B 
I. free agent by the Los Angeles 
1 Raiders, long-time San Fran, cisco defensive back Ronnie Lott 
tells the press that he has no 
|. bitterness toward the 49ers and 
would have probably done the 
same thing if he were the 
general manager.
If youve got any working 
, ; brain cells left, youve picked up 
I; on the fact that Ronnie Lotts 
.. case is the square peg here. 
Unfortunately, chances are you 
havent heard about Lotts 
situation before today.
To elaborate, the only offer 
the 49ers would give Lott was a 
one-year deal that stipulated 
, that he would retire when the 
i season was over. Not only that, 
i but Lott volunteered to take a 
(. reported $200,000 pay cut to 
stay with the Niners. When 
neither of these were accepted, 
the Niners put the nine-time 
All-Pro on Plan B, and Los 
Angeles scooped him up for $2.2 
. million for two years.
After all that, he wasnt 
bitter. In this age of playermanagement conflict, this 
borders on amazing. Bobby 
v Bonilla whines over the differ ence between 17 and 19 million 
; dollars, and Lott keeps his cool
over something far more unjust.
I, I know Id be pissed if I was told 
I the only way I could stay at a 
job is if I retired when the boss 
told me to.
So how is it that Lotts 
breath of fresh air story got 
buried? Well, m sure the 
collective media would say that 
its a busy time of year  NCAA 
Tournament, baseball spring 
training, NHL playoffs, even 
World League Football  and 
there were more important 
tilings to do. But the truth of 
1 the matter is that it wasnt 
interesting enough. No profan. ity, no threats about how hes 
going to make the Niners pay 
n the field  to put it bluntly, 
nothing that sells papers or 
Makes for an interesting news
cast.
Therefore, no ones going to 
know that there are still a few 
gentlemen left in the world of 
big-money athletics. There 
arent going to be any young 
athletes trying to emulate Lotts 
Sample; instead, well have a 
generation of crybaby Rickey 
Henderson clones on our hands.
Tartan senior staffwriter 
Jason McDonald is a junior IM  Kajor.
By ALIM RAY
Tartan Sports Editor
The Carnegie Mellon University 
Rowing Club travelled to Balti
more on Saturday to enter seven 
of its teams in the Johns Hopkins 
Regatta.
Head coach Liz Winter antici
pated the Baltimore course to be 
challenging. The water was very, 
very rough [last year at the Re
gatta], Winter said. Were hoping that the wind doesnt pick 
up....
The womens varsity four team 
for Carnegie Mellon, consisting of 
senior Julie Seaton at stroke, se
nior Amtine Stenbit, senior 
Abigail Ochberg, junior Anna 
Loney, and coxswain sophomore 
Kim McCormick, finished second 
in its heat with a time of 9:04.6 
and first in the finals with a time 
of 8:36.1. CMU was able to beat 
Duquesne in the finalsthe team
Carnegie Mellon lost to in the 
preliminaries.
The womens lightweight jun
ior varsity team also qualified for 
finals by finishing second in its 
heat with a time of 9:06.2. The 
team consisted of sophomore 
stroke Wendy Evans, second year 
masters student Ellen Barry, 
alumna Dory Martin, sophomore 
Opel Perry, and McCormick as 
coxswain. A dispute in timing oc
curred between Pitt and CMU.
The judges had the times for the 
two boats confused at first but 
later determined that CMU fin
ished fourth with a time of 9:03.7 
and Pitt finished fifth with a time 
of 9:05.21.
The womens novice four had a 
good first outing considering its 
members had only practiced to
gether for three weeks. Coaching 
for them has been inconsistent 
and the stroke for the team was 
changed for this regatta. With a
time of 10:10.5, the team finished 
third in its heat behind Pitt A and 
Pitt B.
The other three squads that 
competed for CMU  mens var
sity four, mens lightweight jun
ior varsity four, and mens novice 
four  did not reach the finals. 
Assistant coach Christine Sacksa 
said, There were a lot of people 
up there. The competition was 
tough.... Maritime, Lafayette, 
Pitt, are all good teams.
TInsSIww twoS nGlowsn 
im niHzIds 9sseg 'z6
By ALIM RAY
Tartan Sports Editor
The Carnegie Mellon baseball club had 
a busy opening week with six games in 
five days. The club went 1-5 for the week 
with its only win against Beaver Com
munity College in a double-header on 
Saturday.
Carnegie Mellon ended the week with 
a good showing against Stubenville. 
Sophomore lead batter Satoru Yamauch 
opened up the game with a double and 
was later driven home to give CMU the 
1-0 lead.
Stubenville later had a strong inning 
at the plate and took a 6-1 lead. CMU 
obtained four more runs but that was not 
enough as Stubenville won 9-5.
We neglected our hitting, coach Neil 
Stoemell said. The team has been in
doors using the pitching machine and 
did not hit as well outdoors in game 
situations. Stoemell has seen his teams 
hitting improve with more experience in 
real games.
Pitching ran thin for CMU on Sunday 
because of the four other games earlier 
in the week, and some younger pitchers 
got the call. If they [younger pitchers] 
come around well have a good pitching 
staff. Freshmen John Hutchinson, Chris 
Mcgee, and Jae Kim pitched for CMU on 
Sunday.
We played a really 
good game but didnt 
get the hits when we 
needed them. 
W Mike Fugaro, 
sophomore
Saturday CMU split a double-header 
against Beaver Community College. 
Freshman John Knutsin pitched the first 
game in a losing effort 0-3. We played a 
really good game but didnt get the hits 
when we needed them, sophomore Mike 
Fugaro said.
Knutsin pitched a one-hitter in a los
ing effort. According to Stoemell, when 
Knutsin pitches that well he wins 90 
percent of his games. The pitcher for 
Beaver College was one of the few that 
could beat Knutsin when he is pitching 
well.
In the next game junior Mike Gess 
pitched a complete game with only one 
hit on himas CMU won 7-0. I didnt 
realize I had given up one hit until after 
the game.
Gess, who played third in the first 
Please see BASEBALL, page 14Freshman Chris Mcgee lets one fly to a Duquesne batter.Josh Freeman/Tartan Photo Staff Manager

---------------------------------------------------

14The Tartan  Carnegie; Mellon  8 April 1991
Baseball drops four
BASEBALL, from page 13
game, also drove in two runs off a 
triple at his first time at the plate. 
We really came to life, coach 
Neil Strennel said. Carnegie Mel
lon hit more agressively in the 
second game to drive them to a 
win.
Earlier in the week, CMU had a 
double header with Stubenville. 
It was kind of cold. We really 
werent ready and pitching wasnt 
ready, Stoemell said. CMU also 
wasnt accustomed to the astroturf 
and night games under the lights. 
CMU lost both games 9-3 and 
12-0.
Duquesne University came to 
CMU on Thursday afternoon and 
beat Carnegie Mellon 7-3. We 
started to do a little bit better, 
Stoemell said. Fielding was bet
ter and pitching improved signifi
cantly. Stoemell was impressed
Sophomore Satoru Yamauch takes
with his teams showing against 
the Division I Duquesne. We gave 
them a pretty decent game, 
Stoernell said.
Stoemell believes his team will 
do better in the future with this
Josh Freeman/Tartan Photo Staff Manager 
a cut against Duquense University.
weeks experience under its belt. 
The night games on astroturf has 
helped the team along in its de
velopment. The team should keep 
improving until the end of the 
season.
Rugby takes third at tourney
By DAVE MARTIN
Tartan StaffWriter
Carnegie Mellon Universitys 
rugby club travelled to Johnstown 
bo take part in the Red Cross 
sponsored Blood Tournament on 
Saturday afternoon. The Eggmen 
\jvere forced to play four games in 
$ve hours in the six-team tour
nament, and came away with 
third place.
' St. Marys College was CMUs 
first opponent in the tournament, 
(parnegie Mellon defeated St. 
lytarys in a defensive struggle, 6- 
4. They then went on to play 
Altoona. Another low-scoring af
fair, the game went into a kicking 
tournament after a 6-6 tie at the 
nd of regulation. Senior Joe
We played well. It was really a test 
of endurance. 
senior captain Chris Devlin
Schwerha won the kicking tour
nament for CMU, propelling them 
to the next level.
CMUs next opponent, Indiana 
University of Pennsylvania, 
dominated CMU and every other 
team that fell in its path. CMU 
lost 38-3 to IUP, who took the 
tournament easily. IUP didnt 
allow a try the entire day, keep
ing its season-long streak going. 
Senior Tom Anfuso said, We 
played well but we were totally 
outclassed by IUP. Everybody
"iddsldIm nmIn t2Idbirmn2ib
ZIMMERMAN, from page 1
improvement. Theres still a lot 
more to do, he said. I swim to 
improve on my times; winning is 
Sf. nice added bonus, but theres 
sjtill more I can accomplish.
! Senior Jo Wollschlaeger turned 
in an impressive performance at
the womens Division III National 
Championships the previous 
weekend. Wollschlaeger earned 
All-American honors in two events 
to bring her career total to eight.
Wollschlaeger placed second in 
the 400-yard medley with a time 
of 4:36.84 and finished eleventh
IM Scoreboard
The first
LaserWriter
that fits in pur wallet
was. IUP went on to win the 
tournaments first place easily.
Twenty minutes after the loss 
to IUP, CMUs rugby team was 
called upon to play Altoona once 
more. Altoona won 10-6 over a 
predominantly B-side CMU team. 
Anfuso explained this strategy. 
We wanted to let our B-side guys 
get some playing time.
Senior captain Chris Devlin said 
of the tournament, We played 
well. It was really a test of endur
ance.
in the 200-yard medley with a 
time of 2:12.60. In addition to her 
eight All-American awards, 
Wollschlaeger finishes her Tar
tan career with six school records, 
despite the fact that she didnt 
transfer to Carnegie Mellon until 
her sophomore year.
SOFTBALLTheta Xi C0 1SAE Smokers0 1
; All intramural softball teamsKappa Sigma Gamma0 2DIVISION E
are reminded that teams that playATO Slobs1 0
$t 6:30 pm cannot use the staDIVISION DDU B1 0
dium fields until 6:15 pm. PleaseNew Beta Who1 0BSR Hamsters0 1
(Jo not come any earlieron thePilam1 0Theta XI Heckle0 1
field as the varsity track teamMad Scobellians0 0
has practice. The IntramuralSoftballs0 0DIVISION F
Department thanks you for yourMellon Heads0 1GSIA0 1
{operation.Theta Xi D0 1Kappa Sigma 
CIVE
1 0 
0 0
CeMuUnupasMuDIVISION ECIA0 0
WL TSAE B1 0
NATIONALSFringe II0 0DIVISION G
PAD10Phi Kap A0 0Navy A1 0
Pika Pirates01SUPA O'fers0 0Theta Xi B0 1
Phi Kap A00Teenage Mutant...0 0Pele's Melee0 0
Barcrawlers00WTHM0 1Wanna Bes0 0
SAE A00
Theta Xi B00DIVISION FFENCING SCHEDULE
CIA1 0Individual EpeeTomorrow
AMERICANMathletes0 1Individual SabreWednesday
Athletic Supporters10DU0 1Individual FoilThursday
Mutagens 
Green Aces
10Pika Putzers1 0Team EpeeApril 16
01Big Red0 0Team SabreApril 17
Beta's Good Team01Fringe 10 0Team FoilApril 18
Zoo A00Novice EpeeApril 23
Theta Xi A00INDOOR SOCCERNovice SabreApril 24
Novice FoilApril 25
MINORSDIVISION A
DIVISION ASAE A2 0WRESTLING
$20 Free Agents10Fringe Gargoyles1 0
Pokey's Team10Camel Jockeys0 1FINALS
Random Walkers10Trojans A0 2140  lb
Beta's Other Team01Cheeseman vs.Vallaro
Sig Tau Ready to Leave 01DIVSION BPioneers 14-3NROTC
Waho & the Tribe01Navy B1 0
Sig Tau Others1 0150  lb
DIVISION BBeta0 1Sanders vs.Shih
KDR10Mathletes0 1Theta Xi 12-1Morewood
Squeeze Play10
Pioneers01DIVISION C160  lb
Black Rain00Pioneers0 1Blankley vs.Grabarczyk
Beilstein Bombers00Pilan1 0Phi Kap 0-7NROTC
Phi Upsilon01Sig Tau Seniors 
DTD B
1 0 
0 1170+ lb
DIVISION CGross vs.Gourley
GSIA PHD B10DIVISION DATO 5-3Pioneers
Navy A10Psyclones1 0
Phi Kap B10Theta Xi Whales1 0Compiled by
Kappa Kappa Sigma00KDR0 1ALIM RAY
Introducing the affordable 
Personal LaserWriter IS.
Now you can get impressive, professional-looking 
documents without having to wait in long lines to use 
the laser printer at the computer lab.
The Personal LaserWriter LS printer is the most 
affordable Apple1 LaserWriter ever. It has the power to 
produce crisp text and high-definition graphics at up 
to four pages a minute (it even has a built-in, high
speed serial connection for enhanced performance).
It incorporates TrueType, Apples new font technol
ogy that enables you to scale and print characters 
smoothly and precisely, from the smallest footnote to 
the largest headline.
But, best of all, its from Apple - designed to let you 
get everything out of a Macintosh computer 
that Apple built into it. Not just the power 
to look your best. The power to be your best!
For more information visit the 
Carnegie Mellon Computer Store 
or call 268-2636
 1991 Apple Computer. Inc. Apple,Macintosh, LaserWriter and The power to be your best" are registered trademarks, and TrueType is a
trademark of Apple Computer, Inc.^

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  8 April 199115
SPORTS IN SEASON
Chess
Commissioner 
Buddy Peitt, x3947
Darts
Commissioner 
Rich Romeo, x8335 
GSXA Taverns are the campus 
champions.
Backgammon
Commissioner 
Buddy Feitt, x3947
Bridge
Commissioner 
Rich Romeo, x8335 
All scores must be reported to 
the commissioner or the IM Office, 
x2214.
Faculty/Grad Volleyball
Commissioner 
Chris Yount, x7113 
Standings are posted on the IM 
Bulletin Board.
Water Basketball
Commissioner 
Tom Fabian, x8471 
Playoffs are Tuesday and
Wednesday. Teams 2 and 3 will 
play at 9 pm on Tuesday and 
teams A and B will play at 10 pm 
on Tuesday. The consolation meet 
will be played on Wednesday at 9 
pm. The championship meet will 
be played at 10 pm.
Pinochle
Commissioner 
Buddy Feitt, x3947 
Schedules are out and can be 
picked up in the IM Office. Please 
report the scores of your matches 
to the commissioner.
IM Real Man Wrestling
Commissioners 
Bill Cheeseman, x8332 
Chris Ferrence, x4791 
Scott Quarles, x7516 
The 1991 Eighth Annual Real 
Man Wrestling Tournament was 
held Saturday. Results are shown 
in IM Scoreboard.
Floor Hockey
Commissioners
Majors Mike Gryzwinski, 521- 
8977
IntermediatesBill Vetri, x5300 
Minors  Sujit Bhattacharya, 
x4084
Playoff schedule will be posted 
on the IM Bulletin Board.
Playoffs will probably start 
Wednesday.
Table Tennis
Commissioner 
Jon Wei, x8354 
Schedules are out and can be 
picked up in the IM Office.
3-Point Shoot Out
Commissioner 
Buddy Feitt, x3947 
Sophomore Larry Toscano is the 
campus champion, andjuniorRob 
Sechan finished second.
Fencing
Commissioner 
Kim Meister, 681-3447 
Please turn in all entries to the 
commissioner.
The matchups will be in the 
Womens Gym at 6 pm.
IM Track Meet
Commissioners 
Mike Gryzwinski, 521-8977 
John Supp, x8423 
The meet will take place at the 
IM Track Thursday, April 25 at 7 
pm.
Frisbee Golf
Commissioner 
Kris Pasqualin, x5978 
The games will be played on the 
Schenley Park course.
Call Pool
Commissioner 
Jon Teng, 683-0104 
Nine-ball will be played this 
year. The tournament will start 
next week. Pick up schedules in 
the IM Office.
Ultimate Frisbee
Commissioner 
Scott Quarles, x7516 
Games will start Tuesday.
UPCOMING SPORTS
Softball
Commissioners
Major  Andy Helms, x5347
Intermediates  Sujit
Bhattacharya, x4084
Minors  Mike Gryzwinski, 521-
8977
Womens  A commissioner has 
not yet been appointed.
Schedules are out and can be 
picked up in the IM Office. Games 
are being played in the stadium
at 6:30 pm on fields A and B (4 pm 
on Sundays). Please do not come 
earlier than 6:14 to the field as 
the varsity track team has prac
tice.
Swimming
Commissioner 
Tom Fabian, x8471 
Thel991 IM swim meet will be 
held Wednesday at 4:30 pm in the 
CMU pool. Heats will be con
ducted in all events for women 
only. Post entries and swimmers 
may scratch at the block. The list 
of events will be posted in the pool 
and on the IM Bulletin Board.
Weight Lifting
Commissioner 
Keith Gorse, x2222 
All weight lifters should report 
to the commissioner.
Indoor Soccer
Commissioners
Majors  Sujit Bhattacharya, 
x4084
Intermediates  John Supp, 
x8423
Minors  Mike Gryzwinski, 521- 
8944
Schedules are out and can be
picked up in the IM office. Please 
play all matches as scheduled.a
Bowl-a-thon <
Commissioner 1
Kris Pasqualin, x5978 
The Intramural Department 
will conduct a Bowl-a-thon to help'- 
Junior Achievement of Southwest 
Pennsylvania. You may bowl as a 
five-person team or as an indi
vidual. >S>
To enter, pick up your team' 
captains packet or individual' 
sponsor sheet in the Intramural' 
Office. You must arrange for a' 
sponsor to pledge a certain: 
amount for every pin you knock
down.
The date and time of the Bowla-thon will be announced at i 
later date. For any additional in-1 
formation, please stop in the1 
IM Office or call the commissioner^
Officials Club .:
Officials are needed for both 
indoor soccer and softball. Any-^ 
one interested should contact 
Mike Mastroianni at x2193 or 
x2214.
Compiled by" 
ALIM RAY1
Student Senate Spring Funding Proposal
any questions contactTerrel Dean x4746
Brad Wyatt x5329
Senate x2115
Budget Hearings on 10-apr-91 at 8:00 pm in Room A14 MM 
Anyone may attend the budget hearings* previously a fall budget 
** newly funded organization
1991 Reciuest% Total1991 Request% Total1991 Request%. Total
Activities Board$130,61334.43%Carnegie Tech Radio$1,8360.48%Student Union$9,7392.57%
AB-Coffeehouse$13,4003.53%Computer Club$3,8401.01%The Tartan$25,1406.63%
AB-Concerts$39,50010.41%Explorers Club$2,4700.65%Thistle*$26,6257.02%
AB-Films$23,3506.16%Forbes Gallery$5,2501.38%UEA$1,0900.29%
AB-Lectures$17,9004.72%Hockey Club$10,9112.88%Womans Center$5,6621.49%
AB-Main$10,8132.85%Kiltie Band$11,5483.04%WRCT$38,20410.07%
AB-Special Events$11,800. 3.11%KSA$5890.16%Action Against Rape**$4500.12%
AB-Tech$26,8507.08%MAYUR$1,2780.34%Dancers Symposium**$4100.11%
Activities Fair$3,8201.01%OUT$1,3300.35%Focal Point**$1,0550.28%
Amnesty International$7000.18%PSFB$35,0009.23%MSA**$6050.16%
ASA$45241.19%Rugby Club$1,2800.34%Pugwash**$1,0960.29%
Ballroom Dance*$1,8350.48%Student Government$8,6292.27%SCUBA Club**$5180.14%
Baseball Club$2,6750.71%Student Senate$14,6853.87%Water Polo Club ($1,842):** $400.01%
Big Brothers/Big Sisters$8,2172.17%Spirit$4,1451.09%Volleyball Club** 
Total:
$500
$373,309
0.13%
100.00%
STUDENT 
SENATE
Dear Student,
On behalf of the Student Senate I would like to take this opportunity to 
explain what the Senate does. The Student Senate and the Student Government 
President make up the Student Government of Carnegie Mellon. The duties of the 
Senate include: Allocation of the student activities fee, allocation of student involve
ment in university decision making, and the resolution of student problems.
To accomplish these tasks best, the Senate has the following standing committees:
Academic Affairs - This committee deals with all university academic policies ad programs. Academic 
Affairs offers legislation concerning CMU academic life and informs Senate of any changes in academic 
policies.
Campus Affairs - This committee handles university auxiliary services, university wide policies, and 
campus building projects. Campus Affairs is concerned with the campus environment and campus life in 
general.
Funding and Recognition - This committee coordinates the allocation of the Student Activities Fee.
Also, F & R determines the status of all student organizations, as either funded, non-funded, or service. F 
& R is concerned with the fiscal aspect of senate.
Public Relations and Human Resources - This committee deals with the publicizing of Student Senate 
events and coordinating Senate involvement in campus events. Public Relations is concerned with 
eliciting campus involvement and creating a productive atmosphere in Senate.
Rules - This committee deals with changes in the Student Government Constitution and the Carnegie 
Mellon Student Handbook. Rules is concerned with handling the rules and regulations which govern the 
senate.
I addition to this the Student Senate nominates students to university and faculty 
committees. As you can see the Student Senate deals with a wide variety of issues that 
effect the entire university. Therefore, I encourage all interested students to become 
involved in the Student Senate. The Senate office is Tartan Loft #1 in Skibo. So stop 
by or give us a call at x2115.
Sincerely,
Colin Crehan 
Public Relations
Election Announcement:
Petitions are now being accepted for the following vacancies:
Student Government President
Student Government Treasurer
Carnegie Institute of Technology
Mellon College of Science
College of Fine Arts
Humanities and Social Sciences
School of Urban and Public Affairs
Graduate School of Industrial Administration
1 seat
1 seat 
4 seats
2 seats 
4 seats
3 seats 
3 seats 
1 seat
To be considered eligible to fill a Student Senate vacancy, you must meet the 
following criteria:
 Be an Activities-Fee-paying student of Carnegie Mellon University
 Be a member of the college whose vacancy you wish to fill
 File a petition with at least 25 signatures of Activities Fee Paying students 
Carnegie Mellon University from the college of the vacancy that you wish to fill (100 
for President / 50 for Treasurer). Students may sign as many positions as there are 
vacancies in each college. If a signature appears on more than this number of 
petitions, it becomes invalid on all petitions.
 Submit this petition to the Student Senate mailbox at the Skibo Information Desk 
by 7:00 pm on Wednesday, April 10, 1991.
 Elections will by held: April 24 & 25
If there are any questions.contact the Student Senate Office at x2115.
Thank you.
HERE ARE SOME IMPORTANT EVENTS:
 Petitions are due Wed, April 10 - Return Petitions to the Skibo Info Desk.
 Presidential Debate (Mon, April 15) - 6:30 PH100. The candidates for the student body presi
dency will present and debate their platform.
 Happy Hour (Mon, April 22) - 6:30 to 8:00 Tartan Lounge. Come meet the candidates for the 
student government openings as well as the standing Student Senate. Pizza and Refreshments pro
vided.
 ELECTIONS!! (Wed & Thurs, April 24 & 25) - CMU Students
<J5$

---------------------------------------------------

16The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  8 April 1991
c1q bwIMrkkn blr8ius ks9 nolblinsn im ';;fz;'
The NHL 1990-91 Playoffs up 
to now have been characterized 
by exciting action without many 
surprises about which teams are 
play the best.
In the Patrick Division, the New 
Jersey Devils pulled out a split in 
the first two games against the 
hometown Pittsburgh Penguins. 
Even though the Devils lost the 
second game Saturday night 54 
in overtime, this series has been 
dominated by the Devils.
They have consistently beaten 
the Penguins in the corners and 
have kept the Penguins from 
crossing the blue line in force, 
forcing the Pittsburgh Penguins 
to dump and chase.
The next two games in New 
Jersey should be particularly ex
citing. The Devils were one of the 
toughest teams at home during 
the regular season and the Pen
guins are going to have to find 
some consistency if they expect to 
snatch some wins on the road  
Devils in five or six.
The series between the New 
York Rangers and the Washing
ton Capitals is also split, 1-1. The 
Rangers won the first game, 21,
'TTHE PUCK 
STOPS HERE
tb eTT2( C6Aoh9A0
and the Caps the second, 3-0. The 
Rangers are probably not as well 
off as they would like to be be
cause of the inconsistent 
goaltending they have been get
ting from both Mike Richter and 
John Vanbiesbrouck.
On the other hand, the Capitals 
play has transitioned to the 
playoffs brilliantly, with 
defenseman A1 Iafrate taking 
center stage. This could likely be 
the most violent series in the first 
round, with the Capitals prevail
ing in six games.
The Adams Division was the 
scene of the first rounds only 
upset to date. The Hartford 
Whalers beat the Boston Bruins 
in Game One, 5-2 and then nar
rowly lost Game Two, 4^3. Hart
ford might have made beating 
Boston possible by the late sea
son trade with the Pittsburgh 
Penguins.
The combination of ex-Devil 
right wing Pat Verbeek, ex-Penguins center John Cullen, left 
wing Rob Brown is sure to give 
the Bruins many headaches. 
However, the Boston Bruins have 
a decisive advantage in 
goaltending and defense  Bos
ton in seven.
The Montreal Canadiens pos
sess the only chance left for a 
first-round sweep with their two 
victories over the Buffalo Sabres. 
The Sabres seemed to have game 
one in hand but then disaster 
struck.
The Sabres were up 30 and the 
Canadiens proceeded to score 
seven unanswered goals, eventu
ally winning the game 7-5. The 
second game was closer with a 
score of 5-4. The Canadiens will 
probably beat Buffalo in this se
ries, but they wont sweep. Buf
falo is tough at home and will win 
at least one thereCanadiens in 
five.
They [Devils] have consistently beat 
the Penguins in the comers and have 
kept the Penguins from crossing the 
blue line in force.
Both series in the Norris Divi
sion have been surprisingly evenly 
matched. The Chicago 
Blackhawks were expected to take 
the Minnesota North Stars apart 
in the first round, but the 
Blackhawks play has been far 
below predictions. Many hockey 
writers predicted this to be either 
a Blackhawks sweep or a North 
Stars upset (I originally picked 
the sweep).
Minnesotas performance in the 
first two games makes the upset 
more likely, but I dont think they 
will be able to overwhelm the 
Blackhawks defense enough to 
win four games  Chicago in six.
Similarly, the St. Louis Blues 
were picked to resurface the ice 
with the Detroit Red Wings. De
troit stunned them in Game One, 
6-3.
St. Louis star right wing Brett 
Hull scored two goals, but it wasnt 
enough to spark the Blues past 
Detroit center Steve Yzermans 
hat trick and superb on-ice lead
ership and play. This series could 
well prove that goal scoring isnt 
everything and the Red Wings 
might have a legitimate chance if 
they can keep Hull in check. Still, 
the Red Wings are a generally 
poor team and would need stellar 
performances from Yzerman and 
rookie Sergei Federov for them to 
prevail  St. Louis in six.
In the Smythe Division, the Los 
Angeles Kings find themselves 
tied with the lowly Vancouver 
Canucks. Vancouver shocked the 
Kings 6-5 in Game One but lost to 
L.A. 3-2 in overtime on Saturday. 
The key to this series is L.A.s 
Wayne Gretzky.
He is probably the only man 
who can win a playoff series solely 
on individual presence and effort. 
The Great One has predicted 
Stanley Cup for the Los Angeles 
Kings this year. He might be righthowever, they first have to win 
what is going to be a surprisingly 
tough series against Vancouver
 the Kings in six.
The final playoff series pits the 
Stanley Cup Champion 
Edmonton Oilers against the 
Calgary Flames.
Edmontons game hinges 
around a few key players like Esa 
Tikkanen, Mark Messier, and 
Kevin Lowe. If the Flames can 
control these men, their offensiv( 
depth and defensive supremacy 
should keep the Oilers well in 
check.
Unfortunately for the Flames 
the Oilers seem to have a gift for 
playoff hockey. Just when you 
think theyre down for the count 
they come on strong. Edmontons 
playing spirit should carry them 
to victory in seven games.
Allan Bourdius is a sophomore 
applied history major.
Track runs well against Division I and II teams at IUP
By ALIM RAY
Tartan Sports Editor
Carnegie Mellons track teams faired 
well against Division I and II teams 
Saturday at the Indiana University of 
Pennsylvania Invitational.
The mens team had an excellent 
showing despite fatigue from a doubledualmeeton Wednesday. JuniorCarolyn 
Lowe became the star for the womens 
team by winning the 10,000 meter run 
qualifying for Nationals in that event.
There was no score kept in the IUP 
Invitational but mens head coach Gary 
Meckley estimated that his team would
"It would have been a close meet, a four-way 
meet. We would have definitely been one of 
those teams. 
_______________________W coach Gary Meckley
have finished near the top of the stand
ings against good competition. Indiana, 
Slippery Rock, and Prostburg have all 
been national champions in the last few 
yearsIndiana and Slippery Rock Divi
sion II champions and Frostburg Divi
sion III championsand all would have
finished in the first four places.
It would have been a close meet, a 
four-way meet, saidMeckley. We would 
have definitely been one of those teams. 
The CMU mens team had one of the 
best distance teams at the Invitational. 
The Tartans placed first, third, and fourth
in the 10,000 meter run, and second and 
third in the 1500 meter run. To add to the 
strong distance showing, CMU placed 
third in the 4x100 relay, third and fourth 
in the triple jump, fifth in the shot put, 
and fifth in the long jump.
Outstanding performances for the 
women included Lowe, who qualified for 
Nationals with a time of 37:04; freshman 
Ersula Cosby, placing fifth in the triple 
jump with a jump of 31' 8; freshman Jody 
Piccolo, placing sixth in the javelin with a 
throw of94' 6"; andfreshman Alica Gilliam, 
running 28.5 seconds in the 200 meter 
run, recovered from an injuiy she sustained 
in the winter season.
Womens head coach Dario Donatello 
is very happy with the performances of 
his team because, The kids that placed 
today [Saturday] would place at UAAs. 
The mens team had an easy time with 
Bethany and Washington & Jefferson on 
Wednesday, winning 105-35 and 105 
31, respectively. Sophomore Brad 
Shapiro won the 1500 meter and half 
mile easily, while senior Jeff Illian won 
the 100 and 200 meter.
Overall I think we showed ... a lot of 
balance and depth against Division III 
teams, Meckley said about Wednesday! 
meet. We are far and away the best 
Division III team in the area.
ATTENTION:
ALL STUDENTS PLANNING TO TAKE COMPUTER SCIENCE 
COURSES
Computer Science 
Preliminary Registration
Registration forms are 
available in Wean Hall 6126.
Completed forms are due in 
Wean 6126 by 4 pm, April 
17,1991.
Questions? Contact Becky 
or Maria at ext. 3344 or 
ext. 3342.
hwInnikisun
Housing
Shadyside - 5 bedrooms & 2 
bedrooms furnished. New bath and 
kitchen, WAV, washer/drier. All 
utilities included. 683-6108. 
(304)599-4798 
Short Term -Shadyside Inn 
Apartment Suites. Elegantly 
furnished, well appointed, studio 1&2 
bedroom suites, fully equipped 
kitchen. Includes free cable (HBO), 
phone, parking, linens. One block to 
Walnut Street shops. From $41 per 
day, monthly basis. Daily, weekly,& 
monthly rates available. 441-4444. 
Office Space  Squirrel Hill.
Newly remodeled $225/ea. Utilities 
included. 422-7000 
May 1, clean, one bedroom studio 
apartment, furnished, 5 minute walk 
to campus, $250 plus utilities, 655- 
1872. Also September 1, walk to 
campus, furnished two and three 
bedroom apartment, living room, 
dining room, front porch, back yard, 
private entrances, $360-400 plus 
utilities, 655-1872.
Shadyside Large two bedroom 
apartment, Convenient to CMU 
campus, $415 (includes heat and 
electric). Available June 1. 422- 
0262.
Shadyside sublet Housemate needed 
for spacious apartment. Great 
location. Graduate student or visiting 
researcher preferred. Summer or full 
year. $290. 687-3415.
Shadyside: One and two bedroom 
apartments available fall 1991. Just 
off of Walnut Street. Great student 
apartments. 362-2164. 
Shadyside-Fifth Ave. Large, luxury 
1 BR for Grads or Faculty only.
$490 includes heat. May & June 
occupancy. 521-9555 **466-0835. 
Free Months Rent! Excellent and 
charming furnished rooms and apts. 
near campus by month or semester. 
Featuring all utilities paid, private 
bath, laundry and more. Call today 
682-6018.
Terrific Savings! Free Months 
Rent! Charming furnished rooms and 
apts. with private bath near 
campus. Short or long term leases. 
Call now 682-6018.
Jobs
Overseas Opportunities  Two 
year positions in developing 
countries. Citizenship/degree 
required. All expenses paid.
Excellent benefits  loan deferment/ 
grad school assistance. Call Gwen 
Allen, Peace Corp Rep 648-7424. 
Fast Fundraising Program: $1000 
in just one week. Earn up to $1000 
for your campus organization. Plus a 
chance at $5000 more! This program
works! No investment needed. Call 1- 
800-932-0528. Ext. 50.
AAA Student PaintersJobs available 
now for the summer as house painters in 
the Pittsburgh area. For information or 
application, call T.A.S.P. at 1-800-343- 
0303.
Cruise Ship JobsHiring MenWomen. Summer/Year Round. 
PHOTOGRAPHERS, TOUR GUIDES, 
RECREATION PERSONNEL.
Excellent pay plus FREE travel. 
Caribbean, Hawaii, Bahamas, South 
Pacific, Mexico. CALL NOW! Call 
refundable. 1-206-736-7000, Ext. 600N2 
Help wanted-Landscape laborer. 
Seasonal work. Grass cutting. Experi
ence helpful. Call Steve Nardozzi, 344- 
5449.
Summer Jobs Available-Indoor and 
outdoor painting in Shadyside/Squirrel 
Hill area. Training is provided and there 
are opportunities for advancement 
(Foreman or manager). Starting wage 
$5.25 (+$0.40 if you work the whole 
summer.) Call Triple A Student Painters 
1-800-343-0303, ask for Rick Seeger.
5 Asian Students Needed Assist in 
setting up a marketing and distribution 
system for a consumer products 
marketing group in the Pacific Rim.
Must be bilingual and self-motivated 
with contacts and/or relatives in Taiwan, 
Hong Kong, or Japan. Excellent income 
potential. Call (412)788-6335.
Dream Jobs Now!! Jobs open in 
Paradise Hawaii, California, Florida, 
Cruise-ships, National Parks, & more 
for Spring & Summer. 100s ad
dresses and telephone numbers 
guaranteed. 1-900-226-2644. Telephone 
charges $3/min.
Activists, Student Summer Jobs!
Campaign Work!! Pittsburgh Area!!! 
EARN $300-400 per week this summer 
working for environmental quality and 
consumer rights. PAs largest non-profit 
citizens lobby is hiring college students 
for its summer campaign staff in 
Pittsburgh. Call 412-765-2641 for 
personal interview. Make a difference, 
not just a buck!
Summer Jobs $9.10/hr. or commission. 
Advertising sales. No experience 
necessary. Training provided. Work 
close to school. Car recommended.
Call Steve Gorman at (800)344-6766 for 
details & application. Metro Marketing 
Group.
Easy Work! Excellent Pay! Over 400 
companies need homeworkers/distribu
tors NOW! Call for amazing recorded 
message. Get paid from home! 1-505- 
764-0667. Ext. T33.
Services
Abortion, Morning after treatment. Free 
pregnancy testing, supportive atmosphere. 
Birth control, VD testing, men and women. 
Call 661-8811. Allegheny Reproductive.
Heading for Europe this summer? 
Jet there anytime for $160 with 
Airhitch (r) (reported in NY Times 
and Lets Go!) Airhitch(r) 621-7,700. 
***Low Student, Faculty 
Fares*** AYH Passes*** 
EurailPasses*** TravelBooks*** All 
to be found at Forum Travel. Visit us 
at 4608 Winthrop St. (off South Craig) 
or call us at 681-4099. 
Wake-n-Bake!! Spring Break 91!! 
Jamaica/Cancun from $459.00!! A 
week of fun and sun ! The hottest 
destinations 1-800-426-7710.
Editing, Proofreading Service.
Well fix those grammatical, syntacti
cal, semantic mistakes in your theses, 
papers, business documents, etc. Let 
us worry about the spelling and 
punctuation. Reasonable rates; fast 
turnaround time; meticulous results. 
We specialize in helping clients for 
whom English is a second language. 
References, Call Syntactix, 521-1587 
Discount fares for Eurail passes and 
flights to Europe as low as $450.00 
with up to a one year stay. Contact 
NSTS at 800-257-7446 or 609-795- 
9044. Other destinations are also 
available.
Healthy Women-ages 18-37 (34 for 
smokers) needed for oral contracep
tive study at Magee-Womens 
Hospital. One year commitment. 
Reimbursement. For details call 647- 
4259 (Mon-Fri.)
Adoption
We are a happily married couple 
seeking to adopt. Private adoption is a 
compassionate and perfectly legal way 
to show your love for your child. We 
will be a milk & cookies Mom and a 
Little League Dad. We promise a full 
and happy life for a child. We are easy 
to talk to . You can meet us if you 
want to. Call Collect 421-836-4754.
Miscellaneous
Shadyside Book ExchangeCredit 
for quality paperbacks. Thousands of 
half-price paperbacks on all subjects. 
5815 Ellsworth Avenue. Phone 363- 
4426.
Is it true, govt seized vehicles from 
$100? Call for immediate informa
tion. 504-649-5745, Ext. S-10300
Nefre-Toe-Ring Exotic jewelry of 
the Ancient Nile. Sterling silver, one 
size fits all. $20 includes shippingNefretiti, 414 S. Craig Street, Suite 
112, Pittsburgh, PA 15213. Checks 
and money orders only.
Please send Classifieds to The 
Tartan, Box 17, Carnegie Mellon 
University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213. 
Call 268-2111 for more information.

---------------------------------------------------

rwods B6g 3nnos L'52s 5IlGImg hIlmsis pswwrm mi8slniGMg xiGGnSol2g xsmmnMw8ImiIB Cbliw ';;'
Senior Mark Mittelhauser.
Like the many Watson Fellows before 
him, Mark Mittelhauser is in for 
some surprises.
He doesnt know what to expect yet, 
but the senior economics major knows 
that ms year in Eastern Europe  specifically 
Germany, Poland, Hungary, and Czechoslovakia
 will be challenging.
Its a very risky venture, but thats one of the 
attractions to the Watson Fellowship program, 
says Mittelhauser.
The Thomas J. Watson Foundation makes 
risky business a priority. Each year the Founda
tion, started by the Watson family in honor of its 
fathers lifelong work in international business, 
awards 75 fellowships of $13,000 each to men 
and women graduating from a selected 55 schools 
in the nation. And each year since 1969, the 
Foundation has taken 75 risks on students like 
Mittelhauser.
This year, CMU nominated four candidates to 
the Foundation. My only surprise, says H&SS 
Associate Dean Joseph Devine, who is also chair 
of the Watson nomination committee, was that 
we didnt have more than two Fellows. I thought 
all four were excellent proposals.
The Foundation awards these grants for 
international research in areas that are of 
personal interest to the candidates. Mittelhauser 
will be studying the psychological effects of 
unemployment on the family and on the indi
vidual.
Mittelhausers personal interest for his Fellow
ship study is based on his own familys experi
ence with his fathers unemployment. Through 
his study, Mittelhauser hopes to make the 
experience easier for others. In my community, I 
saw unemployment on both levels, and I saw the 
pain it could cause, he says.
Once he had his topic, unemployment, 
Mittelhauser began thinking of a focus for his
Senior Chris Kasabach.
Watson Fellowship 
winners Kasabach, 
Mittelhauser seize
Chance
U
Lifetime
Stories by A. J. Durazzi 
Photos by Thomas Nichols 
--------------------?---------------------
proposal. I was helping a friend write a paper 
and I was reading an article for that and the 
article next to it was about unemployment in 
Poland and I kept reading, he says.
My interest in that part of the world just took 
off from there. I had been thinking of unemploy
ment for the Watson, but I wasnt sure of which 
area of the world I wanted to look at, he says. 
Mittelhauser feels that studying these problems 
outside of the U. S. will bring to light better ways 
Please see MITTELHAUSER, page L3
If I dont die, it will be amazing with a 
capital a,  says Chris Kasabach of his 
Watson Fellowship. A senior design 
major and literary and cultural stud
ies minor, Kasabach will be travelling 
to Africa and Brazil to study the effects of product 
design in third-world economies with his $13,000 
Watson Fellowship.
As Kasabach says, a lot has influenced him to 
research this topic. My parents. They always 
taught my brother and me to help others, do what 
makes us happy, and try to improve things. This 
fellowship acts as a starting point for me, says
Kasabach.
As I start to explore design,. I think I will 
become more sensitive to the people Id be affect
ing through design and sensitive to the many 
different issues in product design  how people 
are really affected. 
In looking at graduate schools, Kasabach found 
that many attempt to teach design in other 
cultures, but there was nothing offered to experi
ence these cultures. 
I was looking at grad schools, and I was 
thinking of UCLA. They teach designers to work 
in low-income and third world economies, and I 
thought, How can they teach you how to design 
in Kenya when theyre in the middle of Southern
California? 
I want to see the people Id be affecting, learn 
the cultures, then be a designer, says Kasabach. 
I dont want to design what I think people want. 
I want to get as much information as possible. 
Getting as much information as possible is 
Kasabachs approach to life, whether hes working 
on a project  like the Watson proposal  or if 
hes learning about people, especially himself. 
In working on his proposal, he began making 
international contacts through his job last sum
mer at the Engineering Design Research Center.
Please see KASABACH, page L3
Seniors Chris Kasabach and Mark Mittelhauser both won the Watson Fellowship. Kasabach plans to take his fellowship in Africa, while Mittelhauser plans to go 
to Eastern Europe.
Former Fellows 
travelled many 
continents to 
meet themselves
1981 Watson Fellow Reginald MeKnight 
never did study his proposed topic for the 
Watson Fellowship. 1975 Watson Fellow Joe 
Lewis studied more than his proposed topic 
for the Watson Foundations $13,000 fellow
ship to study abroad. But both learned more 
than ever before in their lives.
College was very difficult for me, says 
Lewis, a graduate ofHamilton College. There 
was a lot of pressure and I wasnt prepared for 
that. I didnt know what I wanted to do. The 
Watson gave me the time to think about it. 
MeKnight had a similar learning experi
ence about himself. After planning to study 
African literature and compare how tradi
tional African writing affected contemporary 
African writers, MeKnight contracted malaria 
in Senegal.
I fell ill in my second week with cerebral 
malaria. After I recovered from that I con
tracted hepatitis. So, I felt that to venture 
forth would be unwise. I lived in Senegal and 
, wrote fiction and ended up teaching in Dakar. 
Two books came out of my time there. 
Although his intent was changed, MeKnight 
says that the Watson Foundation was recep
tive to this. I think that they were pleased. I 
received two lettters from them in my time 
there and they were [encouraging]. It was a 
learning experience. For me it was that I was 
in fact a writer and not just a scholar with 
writerly ambitions.
Lewiss plans changed too while he was 
traveling as a Fellow. I actually did more than 
what I set out to do. I went to Asia, South 
America, Africa. I was on the road for 18 
months, he says. The Watson Foundation 
only grants the money for nine to 12 months, 
so Lewis funded his way from there.
I sold a lot of my work on the road. Id see 
a cafe and set up on a sidewalk selling my 
paintings, says Lewis.
In 1976, Lewis was a Salzburg Fellow. I 
was a Salzburg Fellow in 1976 as a direct 
result from Watson travels. I was nominated 
by someone I met while studying with the 
Watson, he says. Although Lewis was a 
Watson Fellow to study painting, he was a 
Salzburg Fellow as a composer of music.
MeKnight has won several awards in fiction 
since his return from Senegal, including the 
University of Pittsburgh Drue Heinz Award 
for a collection of short stories and an O. 
Henty Award for short fiction in 1989-90. His 
first novel, I Get On the Bus, is based on Iris 
experiences as a Watson Fellow in Senegal.
MeKnight taught at Pitt last year and is 
currently teaching in Michigan. This fall, 
though, MeKnight will be teaching at CMU. 
Forever, I hope. Ill be teaching literature 
and writing. Im pleased, he says. I am 
pleased to be teaching at a university that is 
a member of the Watson program. By enter
ing into the program, they have done their 
students and future students good.
Lewis is a visiting professor in the Art 
department in CFA. Senior design major and 
1991 Watson Fellow Chris Kasabach is in one 
of Lewis classes.
After class one day I went up to the Fine 
Arts Department... I was interested in what 
he did before he came to CMU, says Kasabach. 
He said that he had been travelling men
tioned that he had a Watson Fellowship.
Theres a map of the world in the depart
ment and he just started pointing to all the 
countries where he had been.
When Lewis found out he had a new Watson 
Fellow in his class, he says he was glad for 
Kasabach. I like Chris, his work is good, hes 
smart, and he has a good proposal. Im glad. I 
congratulate both Chris and Mark, and I 
would tell them to make the best of the year. 
They just say, Heres the dough, see you 
later! Take full advantage of that. 
MeKnight also offers advice to the new Fel
lows. Dont fret about the culture shock and 
homesickness. It sets in about two to three 
months after youre there, but it goes away. 
Do everything because it doesnt last forever, 
says MeKnight.
 They dont want to get malaria, its scary 
and can be deadly, says MeKnight, who nearly 
died from his case of cerebral malaria.
MeKnight still recalls his Watson travels 
with ease 10 years later, and predicts the 
same for the newest Fellows. They will never 
forget one moment of their experience as 
Watson Fellows.

---------------------------------------------------

12The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  8 April 1991
NAMI
Qu
Josh Freeman/Tartan Photo Staff Manager 
The Names Project recently sponsored quilt panels display on the first floor of Hunt Library. The quilts 
will be on display through today.
Dancers return from London
By COLLEEN KANE
Tartan Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellons ballroom 
dance team, a subset of the ball
room dance club, recently re
turned from an eight day compe
tition and dance seminar in 
London.
Carnegie Mellon was one of 
seven U.S. teams competing. 
Among the American competitors 
were the likes of the Massachu
setts Institute of Technology, 
Brown, Ohio State, and Wichita 
State University. Five English 
teams competed, including Ox
ford, Cambridge, and Leicester 
Universities.
There are two styles of ball
room dancing: International and 
American. The team did very well 
in the American style, coming in 
third place dancing the waltz, 
tango, cha-cha, and swing. How
ever, one of the American teams 
placed in the International style 
finals.
Two couples made it into the
finals. Frans Coetzee, an ECE 
graduate student, and Catherine 
Peters, an EPP graduate student, 
were in fifth place in the Ameri
can Swing. Aki Oshima, the 
teams president, and Susan 
Javorski, placed fifth in Jive.
Since the team has been danc
ing for less than one year, it is 
considered a beginner team.
Due to time constraints, some 
of the beginner-level dances were 
cancelled. However, the team was 
still competitive at the interme
diate level. Oshima and Cindy 
Woods made it into the semi-finals for the intermediate level 
cha-cha.
Peters, an official spokesper
son for the group, said, All our 
hard work paid off. All of us were 
very happy with how we did..
One of the reasons Peters be
lieved that the team did so well is 
the teams trainers, Val and Bill 
Grainer. The Grainers have a 
studio on the South Side and are 
ranked among the top 25 trainers 
in the country. Theyre really topnotch.
For the first part of the trip, the
nine-member team stayed \tdth 
host families in St. Ives. |
Said Javorski, I was really im
pressed with the hospitality, of 
the people. Mike Americusy an
ECE senior, enjoyed staying with
the host family because it'gave 
him a chance to experience.the ] 
culture that we were surroiifided
by.  u.Javorski became very interested
in the culture of London. She.took' 
partin the traditional dishes and 
was surprised by the famous tea 
time.
I expected tea and little crum
pets. Theyre not as picky asthat.. 
It was very informal, sdid 
Javorski. She even ended up in a 
protest against the poll tax.
The complete roster of-team 
members included Americus, 
Javo.rski, Coetzee, Peters, I 
Oshima, Woods, Jennifer Gaspari, I 
a sophomore design major, and-1 
Jenny Pittway, a Pitt graduate I 
student.
Athens-bound Enos balances life of professor, family man
FChq50
xDJF3q$
By CHRIS SHERWOOD
Special to the Tartan
As the class ends and the students 
begin to file out of the classroom, the 
spectacled professor 
gazes out the window 
with a far-off look in 
his eye. Back in his 
narrow, cozy office, 
the dark-haired man 
sheds his professor 
persona as he dons his 
leather jacket and hat, checking his 
pocket to make sure his airline ticket to 
Athens is intact.
He pauses a minute to stroke his full 
beard as he thinks about the dig, and the 
newly found ancient specimens that he 
is going to see. The name on the ticket: 
Indiana Jones? No, its Richard Enos, a 
rhetoric professor at CMU, on his way to 
participate in field studies in Greece.
Enos 12-year career at CMU culmi
nated earlier this year when he became 
a full professor. Aside from teaching at 
the University, he is also the president of
the Rhetorical Society of America, has 
run in four marathons including the 
Pittsburgh Marathon, and is currently 
raising a family of seven children, six of 
whom are adopted.
Because his family takes much of his 
time, Enos enjoys the flexibility that 
teaching brings. He himself had only one 
sister, but had a large traditional ItalianCatholic extended family in Oakland, 
Calif, where he grew up.
He teaches classes in rhetorical theory 
and the history of rhetoric concentrating 
on ancient rhetoric, with emphasis on 
the relationship between oral discourse 
and writing. Enos enjoys teaching un
dergraduates and now teaches Rhetoric 
and Social Interaction, which he teaches 
every semester, and Persuasion and 
Propaganda Analysis, a new course at 
CMU. Both classes utilize rhetorical 
theory to analyze language in everyday 
life.
Enos research has led him to publish 
two books. The first, published in 1987, 
is about Cicero, the ancient Roman 
rhetorician and senator; his second,
Students at [CMU] really are the best stu
dents Ive taught... But I look at these faces 
around mid-terms and finals, I worry about it 
because they could jeopardize their health.
W Richard Enos, 
__________________________professor of rhetoric
Written Communications, was pub
lished this past summer. He is working 
on a new book about the development of 
rhetoric in ancient Greece and has re
cently received a grant from the Na
tional Endowment for the Humanities to 
work on the book. Research for the book 
included fieldwork in Greece to study 
and draw ancient inscriptions. I do some 
work in the library, I do some work in the 
field, and I like teaching, so I really feel 
I have the best of all worlds.
Enos admires the drive and concern of 
the students in his classes. Students at 
Carnegie Mellon really are the best stu
dents Ive taught, without a doubt, he 
says. But I look at these faces around 
mid-terms and finals, I worry about it 
because they could jeopardize their 
health. To help his students, Enos says 
that he tries to structure the workload in 
his class so that the peaks in workload do 
not coincide with peaks in other classes.
On top of his normal lectures, Enos 
gives three sermonettes each semes
ter. In one such sermonette, Enos told 
his students about the importance of 
literacy. He discussed how students an
cestors came to the Americas, unable to 
speak English, and had to take menial
labor jobs. He compared the immigrantsplight to that of students in elementary 
schools who cannot read.  . j
Afterward, a group of Enos studfeflts 
came to him wanting to help elementary 
school students who had trouble f&atU 
ing. Enos established a program where 
students could volunteer their time^o 
tutor kids at the Cofax Elementary 
School. They have learned that there 
are a lot of very important things xfor 
which there is not a monetary return; 
Enos told his students, Just becatfSe 
people cant afford a high power consult
ing fee like you guys are goingto demand, 
rightfully so, doesnt mean that its not 
important.
Enos played competitive tennis in high 
school and college until an injury caused 
him to stop in his senior year. Later on, 
however, he started coaching high school 
tennis. I found a lot of the principles of 
learning how to train in athletics toap
ply to school. I had to work very hard'fo 
learn how to write well. RealizingliKat 
there were theories and research toEelp 
Please see ENOS, page L5Coffee theme-park goers seek good, clean American fun
Lately Ive been thinking about 
winning the lottery and opening 
up a coffee theme-park, because 
Americans get really happy when 
theyre drinking coffee. After go
ing through the turnstiles, each 
visitor of the coffee theme-park 
would be handed one of those
WHA TEVER HAPPENED TO ^ourescent plastic reservoir cups 
which are only purchasable at PLATINUM BLONDES? gas stations thyatPsell an inordl.
tb e(ho4M E604(X9(6 nate amount of cheese-coated 
material and preserved meat
snacks.
Along with the cup would come 
a string, so that after getting a 
refill at one of the thousands of 
urns dispersed throughout the 
park, the steamingjava-reservoir 
could be hung from the neck area, 
making heart palpitations and 
frantic running from ride to ride 
that much easier.
And ridesthink of the money 
Ill save on building them. Coffee 
theme-park goers dont mind
crappy rides; theyre too 
preocuppied with the anticipation 
of when they will be free to get the 
hell off, scamper about the park, 
and sweat profusely in a chipper 
and chatty euphoria.
In fact, the more visibly unsafe 
the rides are, the more people will 
feel justified in stepping off and 
saying in a calculatedly self
inswarmed by blue-haired 
grandmothers, pointing bony fin
gers and shouting out over and
over again, You better put that 
down, youre too young, do you 
want to stay that tall forever, it 
stunts your growth, it makes your 
hair fall out, did you ever hear of 
Mickey Rooney...?
For a little relief from all the 
coffee drinking, the Yellow River 
Flume is one of the few rides on 
which coffee consumption is not a 
requirement. And unlike most 
other flumes in the country, while 
sailing the luke-warm waters of
the Yellow River, passengers are 
free to stand up at will and lean 
out the sides of their boats when
ever they deem such an action 
necessary.
In order to prevent the 
parkgoers from getting cranky, 
the riders of the Yellow River 
Flume are directed to the oldest 
section of the park called The Work 
Place.
Park records show that more 
Please see COSENTINO, pagf L3
The Housing Office is accepting applications for
Desk Attendant Positions
for the 1991-1992 academic year.
Applications are available at the following locations:
Mudge House Desk
Morewood Gardens A and E Tower Desks 
Donner Desk
Resnik and West Wing Desks
Timeline for the selection process:
Applications will be accepted through Thrusday, April 18th. 
Inerviews will be conducted from April 22nd to May 3rd.
Positions will be available at the following locations:
Mudge House desk
Morewood Gardens A and E Tower Desks 
Resnik and West Wing Desks 
Donner Desk
Morewood Recreation Room 
West Wing Recreation Room
Pay Rate:
Minimum wage to start is $4.25.
$0.50 more per hour for "graveyard" shifts. 
$0.25 raise per hour each semester.
We are seeking students for whom this will be a primary position as well as students who will work another job(s) 
on campus. Flexible hours are available. Preference will be given to students with work study awards but all 
applications are welcome. Desk Attendants will be encouraged to return to campus by August 20, 1991.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  8 April 1991q
xlrksnnrlg crSsw wIolsIGs yidrm bivosn tolirniGM
By A.J. DURAZZI
Tartan Features Editor
Perhaps the cat that curiosity couldnt 
[all is- Herb Simon himself.
Although this University professor of 
psychology and Nobel laureate of eco
nomics has had little to say about his 
installment in the Last Lecture Series, 
titled The Cat that Curiosity Couldnt 
Kiltp-tomorrow at 4 pm in the Wherrett 
Rooritin Skibo  I dont like to say too 
mushrin advance... I hear the echo when 
Italk1Simon has walked through life 
i curious cat.
The'son of an inventor, Simon never 
considered anything unusual about his 
fathers patents. I just accepted that its 
i normal thing to have new ideas and to
examine them, to take them seriously, 
says Simon.
Simon has been an academician all his 
life. I had nothing but good experiences 
in education, he says of his Wisconsin 
public school system. While at CMU, 
Simon has had a hand in many impor
tant University changes. He was one of 
the founding professors of the Graduate 
School of Industrial Administration  
not because he was a business educator, 
he states in Models, but because he and 
other professors were social scientists 
who had disco veredin one way or another 
that organizational and business envi
ronments provide a fertile source of basic 
research.... It seems that Simons re
search has required him to be an 
interdisciplinarian. His political science
studies brought him to the social sci
ences which in turn lead him to econom
ics, artificial intelligence, and cognitive 
psychology.
Part of this interdisciplinary nature 
was fostered by Simons alma mater,
same courses, and there is more opportu
nity for sensible conversation, says 
Simon.
In a distributional core, students tend 
to take courses that have professional or 
technical merit. They say, take a huUniversity of Michigan, where Simon manities course. Well, that could be 
says he lived as an intellectual ... im- anything: an engineer could take ecomersed in books. Directly from his un- nomics as a humanities course because 
dergraduate career, Simon makes his he might someday be running a busicase for a core curriculum, a liberal- ness, and thats not what is supposed to 
professional curriculum at CMU that he take place.
helped to institute. Many people here Herb Simon is also an educator, and 
are very bright, says Simon, but they his work in artificial intelligence has
want what theyre learning to be useful. 
Simon argues that the required core cur
riculum in H&SS is better than a distri
butional core curriculum in many ways.
In a required core, everyone has the
found him controversy. Not only his 
colleagues, but also the general public 
take issue with his research, but in dif
ferent ways.
Artificial intelligence, in general, is
the power of machines, says Simon. 
While his University counterparts are 
debating different methods and uses of 
Artificial Intelligence, the public cries 
out. A recently aired documentary on 
Deep Thought, the CMU-built chessplaying computer that challenged World 
Chess Champion Garry Kasparov, 
showed how people, Kasparov included, 
rejoiced in Deep Thoughts defeat, call
ing it a victory for humanity.
On why people are afraid of the com
puter frontier, Simon says, Its human 
nature to want to categorize a we and a 
the/ in any situation. Its hard to see a 
competition and not pick a we or a they. 
They side with the one more like them, 
the human. Time. he says, Time will 
get rid of that fear.
$mjrM I 2Mbsl lius IG G2s 9rlwuan ms9snG IdonsdsmG bIle
COSENTINO, from page L2
coffee is drunk in The Work Place 
than at any other attraction and 
some parkgoers admit upon en
tering that theyve come for no 
othej; reason than to drink the 
bnjvHi beverage.
TKe Work Place provides a 
chance for people to feel what it's 
reaHyJike to drink coffee at dif
ferent jobs; it is split up into white 
and-blue collar areas.
A favorite of the white collar 
half of The Work Place attraction 
is the Faculty Room Simulator. 
Yourememberthosegrade-school 
teachers who graduated from the 
Bunn-O-Matic school of teaching, 
the ones with the teeth that looked 
like theyd been soaked in wood 
stain? The Faculty Room Simula
tor makes it possible to enter their 
sacred shrine just like you always 
wanted to.
Each parkgoer gets his javareservoir filled and is handed a 
carton of cigarettes on the way 
into the tiny room.
Once inside, the door is sealed 
shut behind the park goers and 
coffee breath is blown in their 
faces from strategically placed 
vents around the room while they 
struggle to chug from their cups 
and smoke as many cigarettes as 
is humanly possible in the short
period of time before the bell 
sounds. Three-quarters of the 
way through the simulation, a 
child carrying a notebook pokes 
his head into the stale and smoky 
chamber, at which time the park 
goers are instructed to look up 
crankily and shout, This is for 
faculty only, followed by Who 
are you looking for? The childs 
stuttering and frozen expression, 
like a deer looking into the head
lights of an oncoming car, signal 
the end of the simulation.
Finally, for the TV lovers visit
ing the coffee theme park, NBC 
provides a brief workshop on the 
importance of coffee in late-night 
television.
Parkgoers get to work a live 
talk show audience and try their 
hands at drinking coffee while 
sitting at a desk in front of a 
television camera.
With instructional video tapes, 
they learn from masters, like 
Carson, Letterman, and Costas, : 
the fine art of widdling away va
cant air time by taking frequent 
and deliberate sips of coffee which 
thousands of people across the 
country stay up all hours of thenight to watch.
Andrew Cosentino is a sopho
more in H&SS.
3tkkev 1bdbobA tbsd mea GmawAbC Sabqwk ue duTsl raesTAu stdwi
KASABACH, from page LI
Xye been working on the proposal 
since,July. I found that for me to do a 
thorough proposal I needed to make con
tacts all over the world, like Africa. And 
tosetup correspondence can take a month 
and a half to send a letter and get a 
response, says Kasabach.
Kasabach revised his proposal several 
times over the course of his preparation.
When I was working on the proposal, 
I looked at it, and I thought, Whats 
really weak here? What are the inter
viewers going to question me about? I 
thought the biggest problem would re
volve around, How am I going to commu
nicate? So, I tried to establish a lot of 
comets, and I looked at countries where 
atiteast one of the national languages is
O ...I thought, How can they teach you how 
to design in Kenya when they're in the middle 
of Southern California?
W senior Chris Kasabach
English, says Kasabach.
Kasabach found a good deal of support 
on campus when he was drafting his 
proposals, from both faculty members 
and other nominees. The people on cam
pus that are in charge of giving out 
fellowship information, [Associate Pro
vost] Barb Lazarus, [Director of Student 
Employment] Tom Keating, [Associate 
H&SS Dean] Jay Devine, were all very
helpful. They gave me new people to talk 
to, and those people gave me more people 
to talk to. It was a very long process, 
says Kasabach.
Toward the end of that process, 
Kasabach and Javier Grillo-Marxuach, 
a senior creative writing major and Tar
tan senior staffwriter, worked together 
on their interviewing skills. It could 
have gone to any of us, says Kasabach of
the CMU nominees. Who really knows 
what it was. Javi and I worked very 
closely at the end for the last interviews. 
We videotaped each other being inter
viewed; we looked really silly.
The waiting period was exasperating 
for Kasabach. It was one of the most 
helpless feelings I ever had.
Kasabach heard of the Watson Fellow
ship when he saw an ad for it in an old 
issue of The Tartan lying around his 
fraternity house, Theta Xi.
In addition to his parents, Kasabach 
has had professors that helped to guide 
him to where he is now. I had no idea 
what I wanted to do when I came here 
freshman year, says Kasabach. I took a 
course freshman year  freshman 
history seminar  with Professor
Schoenwald. He was very influential in 
my transferring to Industrial Design. He 
wouldnt let us say anything in class 
without supporting it. He really made us 
think.
When he returns, Kasabach plans on 
his research to the U. S. design industry 
among the projects hed like to explore.'
I might like to compile a book of pho^1 
tography. I plan on photodocumentingT 
what I see while Im there.
Kasabach has cashed in on what he' 
feels are the divestities of this campus, 
and gathered some more information to 
understand himself.
 I think that the more I do, the more i 
understand myself, and the more people' 
I meet through those different activities, 
the more I understand how I fit in.
piGGsw2Ionsl GIlsGn skkstGn rk omsdbwrMdsmG im $InGslm $olrbs
MITTELHAUSER, from page LI
of dealing with unemployment in
ii e'ountry.
"A: region where the social 
equality played a large role in the 
ideology that holds these nations 
together is going to address un
employment differently than that 
U.S., and these countries will 
address the specific issues of the 
impact of unemployment on the 
home and individual, says 
Mittelhauser.
KPhe United States policy has 
the^primary goal of getting the 
person off unemploymentnot a 
horribly painful experience, but
get the individual back to work, 
says Mittelhauser.
The government, for reasons 
of structure and groups that have 
influence in the state have pro
duced policies whose primary aim 
is to get people back to work, and 
in the process they have stigma
tized unemployment.
Mittelhauser says that his plans 
in Europe will be flexible. By the 
time I get there, circumstances 
will have changed. I want to go to 
places where particularly effec
tive policies are being imple
mented, and where I go depends 
on whats going on, says
Mittelhauser. Ive added 
Czechoslovakia to the list, but it 
wasnt in my proposal; the unem
ployment rate there jumped in 
January, so I want to examine the 
effects of that, he says.
While many economists look at 
the statistics of unemployment, 
Mittelhauser will be interviewing 
workers at strikes, protests, and 
job retraining centers.
Id like to apply to the U.S. 
suggestions from official pro
grams as well as the unemployed, 
says Mittelhauser. Thats very 
key, its a grassroots approach to 
the problem. This gives a voice to
the unemployed.
Mittelhauser then set out to do 
his research and make the con
tacts he needed to strengthen his 
proposal.
I started reading articles, I met 
with professors in GSIA, psy
chology, economics, and some 
professors from the Pitt School of 
Social Work and Graduate School 
of Public and International Af
fairs. I went to a lot of lectures 
and discussions, and made con
tacts.
Mittelhausers involvement in 
campus organizations came into 
play, specifically Student
Pugwash. I was at an interna
tional conference a few years ago 
for Pugwash, and I roomed with a 
man from Kenya who went to the 
Karl Marx University in Bulgaria. 
I have some contacts from that 
conference, but theyre mostly in 
Germany, says Mittelhauser. 
Most of my contacts were through 
my professors.
Another important experience 
for Mittelhauser was his tenure 
as student body president during 
the 1989-90 academic year.
I learned how to handle pre
sentations to the board of trustees, 
how to talk with administrators.
Mittelhauser also developed a 
keen eye for identifying problems 
on campus.
Mittelhauser is looking forward 
to his study with the Watson. Im; 
going to learn about myself 
through certain situations I would 
never be in otherwise.
The Watson Fellowship pro-J 
gram is open to H&SS majors 
and minors.
Due to size restrictions by the 
Foundation, H&SS cannot nomi
nate for the whole University. For 
anyone interested in the program] 
there will be an information ses
sion later this month.
Nancy Lubin
Associate Professor of Engineering & Public 
Policy and History, Carnegie Mellon University
The Soviet Union: Recent Observations on a Fast-Moving Subject
Thursday, April 11,1991 
3:30 pm Wherrett Room, Skibo Hall
Having returned recently from a conference in Moscow, Nancy Lubin, one of the nations 
experts on the Soviet Union, relates to us her observations of the recent history-making changes 
in the Soviet Union. After years of research and travel in the Soviet Union, Lubin shares her 
sense of the surging conflicts affecting the development of Soviet internal and external affairs.
Before coming to Carnegie Mellon, Lubin spent seven years as the Soviet expert for the 
Congressional Office of Technology Assesment in Washington, D.C. Lubin has studied at 
Leningrad State University and Tashkent State University in the Soviet Union. She is a fellow 
at the Woodrow Wilson Center for Scholars of the Smithsonian Institution and holds a grant 
from the MacArthur Foundation to work on the political, economic, and social dimensions of 
environmental issues in the Soviet Union.
The Presidents Distinguished lecture Series is organized by Faculty Senate, chaired by School 
of Urban and Public Affairs Professor Daniel Nagin, and funded by the Office of the President.
Free and open to the public.

---------------------------------------------------

7 DAYS ONLY: MAY 2 - 8
Need more computing power? Trade in your old system and peripherals at the 
Apple Trade-Up, May 2-8. Most brands and models accepted. Add some dollars 
of your own. And get an advanced new Apple Macintosh system. With more 
speed. Color. Expandability. And all the power you need to stay ahead.
Pick up your Information Packet today at the CMU Computer Store. Call 
the CMU Computer Store at 268-2636 or e-mail psOO@andrew, for your current 
systems trade-in value.
VISIT THE CMU COMPUTER STORE. OR CALL 268-2636 OR E-MAIL PS00@ANDREW, FOR DETAILS.
* The Apple Trade Up is limited to eligible students, faculty and staff. " Appio, the Appli; Imjo and Macintosh aio iu(|istoiod tiadoinaiks ni Appio Compiitoi. Inc IVI "lini (iuwoi to In; ytuii host is a tudomaik ol Appio l.omputoi Inc

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  8 April 1991L5
$mrn It2is8sn SIwImts SsG9ssm tIlsslg kIdiwM
ENOS, from page L2
people to communicate just intrigued 
me. Enos fell in love with rhetoric while 
He was studying writing. Other facets of 
literacy, argument persuasion, and pro
paganda analysis also captured his in
terest.
Enos attended graduate school at Indi
ana University-Wilmington. His first 
teaching job was at the University of 
Michigan. Enos first came to CMU in
1979 to serve as Director of Graduate 
Studies. He chose to raise his kids in 
Pittsburgh because Tthe people are 
friendly. Theyre hard-working and un
assuming. Theres no false attitude. 
Its almost like a small-town mentality, 
but in a major city. It is also, he says, a 
good place for him and his wife, a lawyer, 
to coordinate their careers.
Enos started as an associate professor 
and was tenured a few years later. Then,
Enos became the Associate Dean of H&SS 
in charge of academic affairs for three 
years.
His goal was to provide an environ
ment that was conducive to learning. As 
head of Academic Affairs for H&SS, Enos 
gave it his all, but found himself ex
hausted and missing the classroom.
Enos believes the hardworking people 
deserve credit for the success of Carnegie 
Mellons rhetoric program. We have all
the talent in the world right here. Really 
different people, but they think as a 
group, and that has to be nurtured a lot 
and encouraged. Thats what I like 
there really are colleagues here. 
Where his children are concerned, 
Enos main goal is to get them through 
high school, while instilling some of the 
values that he holds dear.
I was raised Catholic, my wife was 
raised Protestant and were big support
ers of the Jewish Community Center. 
Were sort of all over the map, which is 
what I like. Im a big believer in ecu
menical values.
Once his kids get a little older, Enos 
also hopes to have more time on his 
hands  maybe to take up tennis again. 
In the meantime, though, he continues 
his multi-faceted life, which puts him 
one up on Indiana Jones who only leads 
a double life.
Tong $wdsl Iuulsnn 8slM lsIw GlIodIn rk 2odIm sHinGsmts
Conventional wisdom has al
ways held that there is more to 
cartoons than meets the eye. For 
years, Rocky and Bull winkle sati
rized dtente before an audience 
scarcely old enough to grasp the 
concept of ahomburg. In the same 
way, the Bugs Bunny and Road 
Runner cartoons explore some of 
the most heavily debated philo
sophical territory of the 20th 
century.
Consider the case of Wile E. 
Coyote. In every aspect of his ex
istence, Wile E. Coyote is the 
embodiment of the existential 
hero. Like Camus Sisyphus, Wile 
E. Coyote is doomed to repeat the 
same endeavour countless times 
without any tangible gain. The 
Road Runner represents th un
reachable goal, the slippery pos
sibility that the Coyotes primal 
hunger may be satiated (one may 
even correlate the rare bird to the 
myth of the Holy Grail). In his 
never ending quest for nourish
ment, Wile E. Coyote is the 
evryman, trapped by circum
stances he cannot possibly under
stand  as one cartoon ends and 
the Coyote finds himself plung
ing into yet another void, he holds 
up a crude, hand painted sign 
bearing the legend WHY ME? 
One may ask the same question of 
the entire human condition.
As an individual bound in a 
cartoon life, Wile E. Coyote also 
j>Fesents a scathing criticism of 
themodem consumer society. The 
ruthless exploitation of the CoyTStiT by the ACME company is 
evident in every frame of ani
mated exploits. Constantly coaxed 
into purchasing products which 
he does not need and which do not 
work, the Coyote is always led 
away from the obvious solution to 
his dilemma (using his income to 
purchase food). The unseen power 
structure of the ACME Company 
has erected a block on the Coyotes 
mentality which is immediately 
obvious but which cannot be 
traced to any tangible source.
The ACME Corporation, as the 
name implies, is an invisible hier
archy representing the pressures 
of society on the defenseless indi
vidual. Whether ACME is taken
JaviVision
tb 1294o So9TT6d-2ocA28i
to signify the late-capitalist cor
porate monolith or simply the 
presence of an overwhelming un
conscious parental influence, one 
thing is for certain: the pressures 
of a physically spare yet intellec
tually loaded environment have 
rendered Wile E. Coyote free of
all reason and volition.
But nowhere in the turbulent 
universe of the Warner Brothers 
(a relation which signifies both 
familial hegemony as well as male 
domination) is the conflict raging 
in the mind of the individual as 
apparent as in Chuck Joness 
Magnum Opus Rabbit Season
ing, in which Daffy Duck continu
ously attempts to inculcate the 
idea that it is rabbit season into 
the gullible mind of a gun-happy 
Elmer Fudd only to be outmaneuvered by the crafty Bugs. The 
Elmer Fudd/Bugs Bunny/Daffy 
Duck triumvirate is an obvious 
example of Freuds representa
tion ofthe psyche as the conflict of
Summer Housing inNew York City
Will you be working, doing an internship, 
or enjoying a summer in New York? You can 
live in the heart of Greenwich Village as an 
NYU Associate or take a course in our exciting 
summer sessions if you wish.
 Minutes from New Yorks business and 
cultural centers
 Apartment-style and traditional residences; 
single and double occupancy
 Outstanding sports-recreation facility
 Includes the New York Experience, an 
enjoyable noncredit program exploring 
careers and culture in New York City
 Over 1,000 
undergraduate, 
graduate, and 
professional 
courses offered 
day and evening
Housing available 
May 19-August 10
For more information and an application, 
call toll free
1-800-282-4NYU Ext. 840
New York University is an 
affirmative action/equal 
opportunity employer.
atNewYorkUniversity
NYU Summer Housing
14-A Washington Place 
New York. N.Y. 10003
Id, Ego and Superego. In his con
tinual insistence of the existence 
of rabbit season, Daffy represents 
the Superego, imposing the un
reasonable dictates and con
straints of society on the desiredriven Id, represented by the 
singleminded Elmer Fudd. In his 
resourceful manipulation of the 
situation, Bugs is clearly the ego, 
not entirely in control of either 
one of his counterparts but always 
able to come up with a plan by 
which to fulfill the goals of the Id 
while confusing the Superego.
To be fair, Bugs Bunny occu
pies a far more involved position 
in Cartoon Philosophy than that 
of a cog in the metaphorical workings of the animated psyche. 
Whereas Bugs constant and suc
cessful action makes him tran
scendent over mere issues of vo
lition, the light gray hare is also a 
secure and active sexual radical 
taking on a variety of roles and 
attitudes ranging from the subtly 
homoerotic(as seen in his constant 
kissing of his adversaries) to his 
obvious cross-dressing ways.
Elmer Fudd may be the re
pressed, nave sensualist in a 
constant and desperate quest for 
the coming of his expectations (a 
state illustrated by the constantly 
erect state of his hunting cap) and 
Daffy Duck may be the 
superintellect no longer concerned
with sexual desires (and in turn 
affected adversely by a repres
sion he cannot pinpoint) Bugs 
Bunny embodies all of the free
dom and liberation of those indi
viduals who are mentally and 
physically in tune with their own 
desires. While, in their 
meanderings, the characters of 
the Warner Brothers Universe 
may each be held as a symbol for 
some aspect of the troubled hu
man condition, it is that hallowed 
state which Bugs occupies which 
we should all strive to attain, in 
spite of the Brooklyn accent.
Javier Grillo-Marxuach is a se
nior creative writing /LCS major.
$3
11 am
$3.00 
11:00 a.m.
Saturday, April 13,1991
* Lunch and transportation will be provided
Tickets available at the Skibo Information Desk
Sponsored by Student Affairs
FALL 1991 REGISTRATION WEEK
(BASED ON FALL 1991 CLASS STATUS, OF COURSE!)________
S 4TH/5TH YR JUNIORS SOPHOMORES ALL OTHERS
____________SENIORS_______________________________________________________________________________________
MONDAY TUESDAY WEDNESDAY FRIDAY
APRIL 22 APRIL 23 APRIL 24 APRIL 26
All students should register during Registration Week if they wish to enroll for Fall 1991. If you won't be returning (for reasons other than graduation), submit an 
Application for Withdrawal or Leave of Absence (marked "Fall 1991") to the Registrar's Office, Warner Hall 201.
All currently-enrolled students will first receive a Biographic Update Sheet and a letter explaining the registration process; review the Bio Update Sheet, make 
corrections and submit the form to the Registrar's Office (if there are no changes, keep the form). A Registratlon/Add/Drop form is enclosed In each Fall 1991 
Schedule of Classes, available at the Skibo Information Desk, outside the CFA Dean's Office and inside the main entrances to Baker Hall and Doherty Hall.
HOW TO REGISTER Pick up a Fall 1991 Schedule of Classes with Registration/Add/Drop (RAD) form inside.
Plan course selections and alternatives with your advisor, and obtain your advisor's approval on the RAD. Many advisors will extend 
office hours during Registration; contact yours for specific Information. RAD forms without advisor approval will not be processed. 
Go to the departments teaching the course(s) In which you wish to register on your registration day (or after), between 9:30 AM and 4:00 PM.
The department will enter the course(s) directly into your schedule on the Student Information System and sign approval on the RAD. 
Remember that if you are on a "wait list" for a course, you are not registered for the course; you must add the course later (if approved). 
Return the completed, signed Registration/Add/Drop form to your department. The goldenrod copy is yours to keep.
P.S. Approximately one week after Registration Week, you will receive confirmation of your course schedule in the mail.
P.P.S. Your department may conduct a "pre-registration" prior to Registration Week. They'll send you instructions if necessary.
THIS MESSAGE BROUGHT TO YOU BY THE REGISTRARS OFFICE!

---------------------------------------------------

"Ticks, fleas ... Ticks, fleas ..." Listen, Morrison!... It's OK  those are ..Wel, what d ya know!,,, / m a follower, too!
jungle triangles'.''

---------------------------------------------------

 mD OF RESENT TUE
urne8r5,eIsI2 1uCa151,
ASSUMPTION THW THIS 
WOULD AMUSE. ME.
H DAD, HO BBS SMS THAT 
TIGERS ARE WORE PERFECTS
sgiagsM mm leurn2o
WE SASS TUAT IF TUE PLASlNG 
HELO WAS LEVEL AND WE 
DVOHT HAVE GUNS, PEOPLE 
Y^OULD BE NtUUNG BUT CAT 
FOOD/ TEU. U\N\ TUATS HOT...
WE BET A 
QUARTER, 
SOU CH\SELER
CLAP
CLAP
CLAPCL&P
CLAP
CLAP
PHILISTINES
nL6fFtu
rCCrIsn,s2 r was
MISINFORMED.
NPE/ IK STASIMG 
HOWE ANO WATCHING
TELEVISION ___<
ALL DM/ /i 1
OH. WRE 
HOT? /
I'M NOT 
GOING TO 
SCHOOL 
TOOAV. /
AS RONALD PROVES, 
ITS QUITE EFFECAVE, 
EVEN AT LONS RANGE
oU SURE.CMNIN 
GIVE US AB PEAKTODAS FOR SHOW AND TELL 
t UvtIieyl, ins i8 u2 
Pbh Ap9mh9 .mhc/hd _ 
D /hbmh9/whJoRRRo
I HAVE IN MS HAND AN 
INVISIBLE CRETIN 11ER. / 
ONE SHOT RENDERS THE
THEAHR N hNhheHLo nHRdS 
N cleAS NL fAAmi RlisL
HERE THOUGH, SOU JUST 
HAVE TO 5TART DGG'NG 
^ NUT' V-W. rDR
< V THE SLST
UEN'-c TUE SYSTEMATIC APP50ACU. 
UMM ?
I WISU WE LWED IN TUE 
BADLANDS OP MONT AK A 
HS EAS\ER WLRt BECAMSL 
Erosion o;tin EXPOSES. 
THE K^NES
Dkc phJ c/hPJpQS 
tins2 2s, C
2s24 1 *sa1sgs 1n ,ls
IMPORTANCE OF GCOD 
GROOMING-.
f WEIL LOOK AT YOU. 
S Dont Som look 
Tv nice and neat/
SPEAKING OF WHICH, ID BETTER 
GET \N THE TUB 
\F I WAKT TO 
BE IN BED ON 
V.___, TIME.
I HEARD CALVIN 
SPLASHINS \N IME TUB, BUT 
TEERES NO WATER 
cu TUE FLOOR.
AND SOU'RE 
ALREADS IN BED ??
WOULD SCU CUE 
CNER MS VOME- WORK TONIGHT SO I CAN 
CORRECT ANS 
MISTAKES \N 
TUE MORNING 
BEFORE SCHCOL? TUANKS. NtoM.
H\5 TOWEL IS 
HUHG TO DR1/
TUE TOOTHPASTE 
CAP \S ON-' 
TUERES NO 
MSS ANS WHERE.'
SOURE. UP AND 
DRESSED?' I 
DlDNT EVEN 
CALL SOU
 LIKE TO > GET UP EARLS 
SO THE MORNING ISNT RUSHED, j
AND WITH TUE EXTRA TIME.
I CAN RENIEW MS ASSIGNMENTS 
AND BE BETTER PREPARED 
FOR. CLASS.
IN BRACING MSSELF FOR 
WHEN TUE OTHER. SHOE DROPS
DONT GET UP 
VU. FIX MS OWN BREAKFAST 
DO WE UAVE 
ANS PRUNES 5
I MADE MS BED ANO C 
^T MS BREAKFAST D\SHES 
AWAS .' I'M OFF TO 
K SCHCOL NOW/ .
THANK. SCM. 
LU STUDS 
HARD. A GOOD 
EDUCATION \S 
INVALUABLE.
THIS \S 
WORKING 
CUT GREAT.
I CANT 
BEUEVE SCUR 
MOM THINKS TUATS SO).
I'VE GOT TS SAS, 
HOBBES, L\E REALLS 
PERFECTED MS OLD 
DUPLICATOR THIS 
TIME.' ,____^
ILL GRANT \ IT WAS SO \T NEEDED SIMPLE TO ADD 
PERFECTING./ AN ETHICATOR.' --V-'[ I DONT KNOW fgkf-X WUS I DIDN'T 
rwfe \ think s& \T 
V BEFORE/ .
NOW, instead of making a 
COMPLETE DUPLICATE OF ME, 
I'VE MACE A DUPLICATE OF 
JUST MS 600P SIDE ' HE 
DOES All TUE WORK. AND I 
GET ALL TUE CREDIT/ HES 
A TOTAL SAP/
o Svfp3 
r KNOW 
THE
rvap.eV
SOU'ME GOTTEN SO 
MANS, LETS LET 
SOMEONE ELSE 
TRS THIS ONE,  OK.DEAR?
\)OPLCtofi 
<jocA CVit.
Calvin and Hobbes in I uIiwM ksIGols im G2s xiGGnSol2 xlsnnE
Calvin and Hobbesby Bill Watterson
TUE ETHICATOR MUSIVE DONE^ 
SOME DEEP DIGGING TO ^ UNEARTH HIM '

---------------------------------------------------

7 I'Y.l
Doonesbury is a daily feature in the Pittsburgh Post Gazette
N.Ki!. T yj $
Kyi
HISTJ UIui^S

---------------------------------------------------

Zack's Wo rid
Both Cause You 
to Make the 
Same Noises
oooh; J 
oft (n)V, 
6NeewWoman with 
V^baby woman J
Woman with 
lollipop J
Woman with baby 
woman with lollipop.
Ore Is often a 
substitute for the other 
Bad Date?) Hugryy
r y~7Vcu'Te not.
mereFOOD
ln us7F7 e Ervv7Eulrv 
s7F7 rF .seuxPinhead
Woman
Pac
Woman
Amazon 
Woman y
Egyptian
\WomanyBoth Leave a Messy 
Residue
f Ok, Who didn't clean up after^\ 
themselves on the kitchen table?.
Desperation Increases Over 
Time
fw hat's ~lhat?y---------------------Sat----------------Peanut Butter
Wand Mayonnaise. If was the 
(^only thing that I could find..Siamese Twin 
^esbian Women,Siamese Twin 
Women J
Lesbian
Women
Chorus Line
Who's
that?.Getting Stoned Enhances A
Both x~ &rffh GodTiT^rfjtffIt's o/y~o~ 
per lencesjy] j his is so]Wj hamburger, 
/fUkt/rfi/f/mlK intense!!])]/! lack ^__^
Look for these 
future comparisons.Emma
Goldman
Marie
Antoinette
Note. It Is possible to lose the 
distinction between the two... 
We shan't elaborate. Figure it out 
for yourselves, you little perverts.
Sex and Skiing
Sex and Rollercoasiers
Sex and Differenlial Eqs
Nancy Reagan
OM liiir
OY FUce 
fcAJTALHy.
+ is O j0ro\=
N-ress/,^
^A(ap sbr ^ 
Wli-L  
'vCoUiiMilp^
^ up .L3BBg
2^ G6ri^:^ West CoiX^
u6 jtoy/g ,7'&/\TiE
iNY Hes2,oHkJ&
/ v'w4g(Ie')T 
b c ifcou
P/tAU <
JiTER TWf VICTORIOUS 
CONCLUSION or THE 
GALACTIC IVAH OF THE 
YEAR 2/50. EARTH 
LAUNCHED A TEP.P,1BLL 
SLAUGHTER OF THOSE  
THAT 5URVIVED...
TH6A0u.%JU-.j of/e> / 0/ '/fcfS TSe'{O)-/y T(*OK txm^v yHu /jHvy rKed
0$ Uvtd sH PaetK vjtK TW-K yHv
y) Pavii T^e 6Ji'of.. ffoTv tofK5
\ / We^e UO't^ <XCjc*|VlST t* fovimaO
^ \ FHK - Thd t/OHaC5-
/ / (-Y i$ '
J/ \K<1 o'J
\/l STor/,wrt1'
L II CcK'f.
C?K<vV> V*' \
c)ec(efitne55.
A<"t you 30lO3 ^ 
rne wV>y yoiX" 
fie*.- i'vnfestd &otouca^e b<^u3^
V^tre. T
^/MrTRIg; netrbtu.Tthufr 
6RZ-hC[ JULY 162-
E3sD)d5
WILL GIVE EXE
CUTIVE ORDERS;
SVf" .
tyLnhnl
p-72 .'...TWO V_J'
SCORPIONS IN ,
SECTION <?-A9... <
\l AM UNDERTAKING 
^LTHEIR EXECUTIQ1HavivieS one 6fo|jo> WoOic/ tve StJ5 of T^e. 
v/ndd'^ of- iwnl
 T^iov/jt-, NI5 
iolt^croS wKe. P^r1/ bene\altnT. Ht woS Th*-
. U80 i ZafJ fo^noaCH-kurrtP 
Vie\' PlNP 
5o<r*ed^exjjlno ,
WVicnTS
3oeT Yov/ (aoK 3riTHE SCORPION 15 
ATTACKING WITH AN R-7-_-SHOT HIT jTHE HARK_tMY , nHoUtP^
COMPUTER YOUARE 
UN&EMNS.
I-FALL TO THE LE?T.
OH GOD. A BALLISTIC RAr:... IF IT WAS THE 
IMPROVED VERSION 
J ONLY HAVE ONE MINUTE. 
:N^PT TO LIVE.' J/
51-26 Durringthero
Tr'-rTINGUISI . '-11 =-N. MPin? -
^UT UP/
cMR> AMD AZ-? 
WOULD BE. DEAD:
Vi^Rr P'PQW HAS BEEN 
^ELFREGULATED FOR 
^THERMAL SHOT,fHRE HE IS.' ^ .IS WAinWG... UIH?J, HE COULD HAvK 
KILLED ME ' 
\WHY DIDN'T HE> Xqo IT ? "yStudent Comics
V DEREGUUTED'T the THERMAL SHOT. HE IGauiTE 
BRAVE ( r WOULD 
^J<EA CUSSICAl^/'^?,mPHTR 2 INFORMS THAT A THIRD LIGHT HAS eDD7eF73 _ 
TWO ARE HEADING r TiV^D5 THE EA5TStudent-drawn comics are due the Friday 
before Monday publication. Leave submissions 
in the Art/Comics Drop Off Drawer by Midnight 
in The Tartan office, Skibo 50.Submissions will 
be returned in the Pick Up Drawer on Monday. 
Or contact John Lin at x2111.
WILL LTX-' 
HIM SHOOT ONE 
.MORE TIME ,
" COMPUTER \NCr.P.FORATE ' 
THE DFru7EulG7 
FIELD  /I
 -I DON'T THINK 
lu IS REQUIRED.
ABSOLUTELY

---------------------------------------------------

Ul Muinif Je*
<vi M,Mb'0 j*fi'!ii dzazp ftc eyjif iV'7
^'rir 7M7. tv?k,S rt\vir><\ rM"^^Tfc j pAbluft li AA^ A^> o(<{.
DMh fwfficr. w.'/l Hie ii'jpt of hib -URR |je'-ffM hib fuA C
MUL ^FFI> Al-P MM ''
NOTE'. We A'K1''oyjfeJse 'Hat ve (iA4e t,e?h
^,Vo^ M '(ur-WAr'-g,W^Wing 
pUf/e ftfc CoH-Wt recjn, MM&^es, 
li'le Al I ofUr rACe-ijtoMe/noH di-ffeffn; uM/f-s 
of- //fe ARi to VAP-ied i*1er<sfs. "S.'^vU ^ 
ys^JA /;" yO-ll Ujer-fsfei fs^iMo s/<ofy|e5 
cDgT DICING WiTH WOLVES
Zime
fl)"Woolwortn <
^tn'ih&rs&n
a; xrvd ! / r^egeuevt NeiTwe^. 
A/aoL\VoftTH -S T P|D Vfl S5 Hhn  GohJZ ^yPoptmr WH&LI , h floDE VwoUs-lj jjHefewte? WffAH. ' iMfn6sjn/e)
1 'ly^v 
P ir7 / 'H OW
N\\

---------------------------------------------------

ytbsta bodbn wiks 
mGr G2s sIlwM niHGisn
By MARK A. ROCES
Tartan Staffwriter
With a lively wag of bouffant 
hairdos and a shuffle of bell-bottoms, the Broadway show The 
Leader of the Pack opened 
Wednesday night at the Pitts
burgh Playhouse, presenting the 
audience with some of the best 
music that the early sixties had to 
offer.
Leader tells the pseudo real-life 
story of songwriter Ellie Green
wich, from the advent of her suc
cess, to her marriage and divorce 
to fellow songwriter Jeff Barry, 
and beyond. Greenwich is re
sponsible for such popular hits as 
'Chapel of Love, Be My Baby, 
*Do Wah Diddy, and of course, 
Leader of the Pack. These, and 
some 20 other songs written by 
Greenwich, appear in the play 
are strategically placed to 
ell much of the story.
Indeed, there seemed to be little 
more to this production than 
Greenwichs music, as any diaogue lasts for little more than 
ive minutes before the songs start 
up again. But, this is the story 
about a songwriter, after all, and 
fone should do what comes best, 
hen, by all means, keep the songs 
going and dont stop.
Lynette DuPre and jazz vocalstEtta Cox certainly took up the 
task of singing the many songs by 
ripping into song whenever the 
moment arose. While the story of 
leader itself gave new meaning 
'o many of Greenwichs songs, 
these two ladies with their pow
erful vocal cords managed to put 
a whole new face on Greenwichs 
5. Cox, who has opened for
 Theatre Review 
THE LEADER OF THE PACK. Relive 
the early sixties through the songs 
and life story of Ellie Greenwich. 
Starring Lynette DuPre, Etta Cox, 
Pam Klinger, John De Luca, and Jon 
Bicsey. At The Pittsburgh Playhouse 
until April 21. Tickets are $12 and 
$17. For more information about 
tickets call 621-4445.
Ray Charles and Doc Severinson 
and was voted Pittsburghs Best 
Jazz Vocalist from 1988 to 1990, 
and DuPre, who took a leading 
role in a national tour of 
Dreamgirls, managed to trans
form the music in Leader from a 
tame bit of the American past 
into a burst upon the senses and 
thoughts of all that is truly plea
surable.
Taking the lead as the anxious 
and sometimes teary Greenwich 
was A Chorus Line veteran Pam 
Klinger, and playing her husband 
was John De Luca. De Luca has 
directed A Chorus Line here at 
CMU and has toured nationally 
with the production. Also worth 
mentioning is Jon Bicsey, who 
played Gus Sharkey, the pro
ducer.
The roles played by these three, 
while being the main ones, are 
slight nonetheless, as not much 
can be put into the five minute 
intervals between songs. In ad
dition, the script didnt give these 
actors much to work with, at least 
nothing worth mentioning. 
Klinger especially does a nice job 
of expressing Greenwichs feel
ings, upon which the script puts a
CMU Music and 
Sondheim make 
bad 5e8rbil
John Fobes/courtesy Pittsburgh Playhouse 
Linda Gabler, Etta Cox, and Lynette DuPre test out their vocal cords 
while singing in The Leader of the Pack.
spotlight, and might otherwise boy, girl falls in love, girls heart
present unconvincingly. What 
their roles lack is made up for, 
once again, by the singing and 
dancing.
One might look at the story as 
being as frugal as a parable, and 
it is the lack of anything more
breaks, girl recovers.
It is this celebration of song 
that makes the production 
worthwhile. What first presents 
itself as a look back at an awk
ward age soon develops into an 
expression of the eloquence of
than a most basic storyline that Greenwichs music. Indeed, the
might take away from this pro
duction. But at the same time, 
this entire production could be 
thought of as one long song. The 
storyline follows something like 
lyrics from the sixties: girl meets
songs become more lively as the 
play progresses and explodes into 
excited revelry at the end. The 
Leader of the Pack not only re
vives Greenwichs work, it re
evaluates and replenishes it.
By CHARLES SABATOS
Tartan Staffwriter
The CMU Department of Music 
stages Stephen Sondheims mu
sical romp Company tonight for 
its last performance. The play, 
also stagedThursday, Friday, and 
Saturday at the Winchester 
Thurston School, features a group 
of self-centeredNew Yorkers: four 
couples and Robert, the only single 
person among them.
The plot, such as it is, gathers 
the couples for Roberts surprise 
35th birthday party, a scene which 
recurs at the beginning and end 
of each act, in different versions. 
In between each act, Robert visits 
each of the couples for dinner and 
is given some insights into mar riage. But Robert likes things the 
way they are: One is lonely, two 
is dreary, threes company, much 
more cheery.
Since Company is being pre
sented by the Music Department 
and all of the stage performers 
are voice majors, the production 
puts more emphasis on the vocals 
and orchestra. Thus, the vocals 
are good, although the acting is 
not as strong.
Senior Melinda Klump is ex
ceptional in both aspects as Amy, 
expressing her characters wed
ding day jitters in an impressive 
rapid-fire delivery while at the 
same time making her neurotic 
character the most believable in 
the show. Sophomore Jessie 
McClure is also good as April,
 Theatre Review 
COMPANY. A group of New Yorkers 
gather together for a surprise party. 
Starring Melinda Klump, Jessie 
McClure, David Velarde, Dana 
Cefalo, Adam Karstan, and Erin Quill. 
At the Winchester Thurston School 
tonight at 8.
who has a fling with Robert. The 
other characters are generally 
one-dimensional, which is not 
entirely the fault of the perform
ers.
Fridays performance featured 
senior David Velarde, who was 
vocally adequate but whose goodnatured but befuddled portrayal 
of Robert failed to create a com-. 
pelling central focus. Sophomore 
Dana Cefalo stood out as the 
strong-willed Joanne, but wa
vered between affectionate sourness and true bitchiness. 
Tonights performance features 
junior Adam Karstan and junior 
Erin Quill, respectively.
It is the choreography of Com
pany which really stands out. We 
tried to do some things with it, 
and tried to utilize the dancing, 
said Director Chris Wunderlich. 
Numbers such as Another Hun
dred People and Night Club 
make good use of a fairly large 
cast.
As for the music itself, it doesnt i 
live up to Sondheims past works.
Please see COMPANY, page L12
Terry Brooks Druid of Shannara breaks the fantasy mold
By DANIEL DE GRANDPRE
wtan Forum Editor
If youve ever seen a book by Terry 
^ooks on display in a bookstore and 
Pondered if it would be a good way to 
Pend a quiet afternoon (or, since his 
^oks tend to run in the 400 to 700 page 
^ge, several afternoons), Id have to 
kU you that spending your time with 
of Brooks books would be a marvelus way to spend an afternoon.
Brooks latest book, The Druid ofOi ^ 'wnnara, the continuation of his 
^Pular fantasy series featuring the offnUnwilling descendants of the 
hannara family, continues to display roks talent as a writer and is a welcome 
Edition to his family of fantasy novels. However, before going into Druid, ere>s a little history about the Shannara *ries.The series began in 1977 with The 
JJJord of Shannara, a story about two
 Book Review 
???? DRUID OF SHANNARA. By Terry 
Brooks. The second book in the Heritage of 
Shannara series.
brothers, Shea and Flick Ohmsford, who 
undertook a nearly impossible quest to 
find the sword and, with it, destroy the 
nefarious Warlock Lord. They succeeded, 
as did their children in the following 
adventures, The Elf stones of Shannara 
and The Wishsong of Shannara. The 
Scions of Shannara, the precursor to 
Druid, brought the Shannara series back 
to life and was the first book in the 
Heritage of Shannara trilogy.
As for the story of Druid, it continues 
right where The Scions of Shannara left 
off. Walker Boh, a descendant of the 
Shannara clan, undertakes the duty of
restoring the lost Druids Keep, Paranor. 
For that, Walker needs the Black 
Elfstone, but the search leads into a 
deadly trap.
To help Boh, the legendary King of the 
Silver River creates an elemental 
daughter named Quickening and sends 
her to aid his quest. The story then 
rotates around Boh and his seemingly 
impossible quest; Quickening, whose 
emotions are tom between the purpose 
for which she was created and an 
awakening of the part of her thats hu
man; Morgan Leah, whose quest is to 
reforge the broken Sword of Leah and 
save his friend Par; and Pe Ell, who is 
hired by Rimmer Dali, leader of the 
Shadowen, to kill Quickening before she 
can achieve her purpose.
In a nutshell, if youve read and enjoyed 
Brooks previous works, youll loveDruid. 
And if you havent read any of Brooks 
past books, but go for this kind of fan
If youve read and enjoyed Brooks previous 
works, youll love RloiuE
tasy, then youll love Druid anyway.
Brooks stays with the same plot in 
Druid and doesnt try to move between 
sub-plots as he has done in the past when 
the action gets intense. Except for a brief 
mention of Par, Wren, and Col, Druid is 
solely a story about Walker Boh and his 
companions.
Druid also further explores the char
acters from the first book. Brooks man
ages to successfully go as deep as the 
fantasy genre allows, with realistic biases 
and hesitations in their heroic undertak
ings. His characters do not always fit the 
hero stereotype, but rather have real 
fears, worries, and hesitations. The end 
result is a book about people in a fantasy
setting rather than the other way around.
Brooks also breaks out of the fantasy 
genre mold with the love story between ; 
Morgan Leah and Quickening. Unlike 
most fantasy novels, their relationship 
isnt near pornographic. Rather, Brooks 
tells a story in a quite charming and 
tasteful maimer without being corny. 
Morgan Leah and Quickening end up 
Please see DRUID, page L13
What the stars mean
Masterpiece 
Excellent 
??? Good 
** Fair
? Poor
DIVERSIONS
The Perfect Weapon kIiwn Gr tr8sl ms9 lromu
 Movie Review 
if THE PERFECT WEAPON. Jeff Speakman makes his motion picture 
starring debut as Jeff Sanders, a master of kenpo karate with his own 
code of honor. The end result is your basic martial arts film which is only 
a small cut above the rest. Starring John Dye, Mako, James Hong, and 
Toru Tanaka.
By ALISON GREEN
Tartan Magazine Editor
Far be it from any martial-arts 
film connoisseur to demand a 
substantial plot in a film obviously 
created to promote an actor: The 
plot of The Perfect Weapon has 
been used a thousand times. A 
martial-arts expert  played by 
someone like Steven Segal, JeanClaude Van Damme, or, in this 
case, newcomer Jeff Speakman
 must avenge the death of a 
dear friend by finding the person 
responsible and administering 
some kind of punishment. Change 
the names, setting, and villains, 
and youve got a never-ending 
supply of martial arts films and 
star vehicles. After all, director
Mark DiSalle propelled Van 
Damme to fame. As a matter of 
fact, DiSalle met Speakman dur
ing a casting call for Kickboxer.
So which one is the perfect 
weapon? Is it the plain-looking, 
yet dangerous, Speakman, or a 
film promoted to getting curious 
moviegoers to lay down six bucks 
to watch Speakman pummel un
suspecting adversaries?
In this case, it could be 
Speakman. Afourth-degree kenpo 
black belt, hes actually an im
pressive fighter. He plays a 
character named Jeff (go figure) 
who returns home after years of 
estrangement from his family and 
friends to help a close friend of the 
family. When JefFsfriendiskilled 
by a local Korean Mafia hitman,
Marsha Blackbum/1991 Paramount Pictures 
Jeff Speakman takes on combatants at a sparring gym in The Perfect Weapon.
he spends the rest of the movie In addition, Speakman has an 
pursuing the killer, dealing with experienced supporting cast behis father and brother, and learn- hind him. James Hong stars as 
ing self-control (i.e. stop killing Yung, one of the Mafia leaders, 
people). Although the plot isnt as Hong has been in several movies, 
exciting as it could be, theres including Big Trouble in Little 
enoughmartial arts action to keep China, Blade Runner, and 
you interested. Chinatown. Toru Tanaka plays a
350-pound body  from other 
martial arts movies confront 
Speakman gives The Perfect 
Weapon the kind of interest upon 
which the movie depends, and a 
tension which the plot doesnt 
provide.
The novelty of watching 
Speakman confront opponents 
who think hell be easy to beat 
doesnt wear off during the course 
of the movie. Could it be the fact 
thathes wearingjeans every time 
he fights someone, or that he looks 
more like Charlie Brown than 
Chuck Norris? Whatever the 
reason, Speakman is interesting 
to watch.
The Perfect Weapon leaves 
something to be desired in terms 
of a plot, but thats no surprise, 
and it isnt what the movie is 
really about. The real question is, 
character named Tanaka (again, is newcomer Jeff Speakman 
go figure), Yungs bodyguard and enough of a reason to go see this 
hitman. Tanaka also has an im- movie? Sure, if you have a lot of 
pressive list of movies under his time to kill, six dollars you dont 
belt, including Darkman, Black care about, and a burning desire 
Rain, and The Running Man. to see The Perfect Weapon before 
Watching familiar facesand in it comes out on video. Just dont 
Tanakas case, a familiar six-foot, bring any great expectations.

---------------------------------------------------

L12The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  8 April 1991
Frs TrS sHbwIimn 92M YGsmna Ils Grr bslkstG
Men dont want tens anymore. 
They want women to be nines. 
There was a big article about it in 
Psychology This Week, where they 
interviewed all these guys who 
talked about how the Bo Derek 
standard was out. I didnt quite 
understand what they were say
ing, since I thought a ten was 
whatever you personally thought 
was bodacious, but I think the 
reasoning goes like this:
Tens are too perfect. They look 
like mannequins in a department 
store. If you want a mans insides 
to go all gooey, show him a woman 
with a crooked nose, or fingers 
that are too long for the rest of her 
body, or something like that  
and theyll go Wow! Shes almost 
beautiful!
Its like a medium-rare steak. 
This is great! Its almost cooked! 
But I dont think the article 
went far enough. If a Nine is better 
than a Ten, why isnt an Eight 
better than a Nine? Think of the 
advantages for the nineties 
woman:
Ten: Obviously out. Thats 
why nobody went to Bo Dereks 
last movie.
Nine: Sexier than a Ten, be
cause she has a little flaw, like 
thin eyebrows.
Eight: Sexier than a Nine, 
because shes actually cross-eyed 
and pigeon-toed, making it obvi
ous that she could never be a Ten,
JOE BOB GOES TO 
THE DRIVE-IN
tb 164 C6t Co9ff0
and therefore making her an at
tainable Dream Woman.
Seven: Better than an Eight, 
because she has a knife scar on 
her left cheek for that Lets party 
look.
Six: Better than a Seven, be
cause shes good-looking, but she 
has body tattoos all over her back, 
some of them in the shape of ex
tinct reptiles. When she has her 
clothes on, nobody knows how 
hideous she is. When she has her 
clothes off, who cares?
Five: One leg shorter than the 
other, bunions, and a hiney the 
size of Saudi Arabia. This woman 
could walk down Fifth Avenue 
buck nekkid in the daytime, and 
the Turkish cab drivers wouldnt 
even notice her. She can be yours 
forever.
Four: Now were getting into 
the real Dream Woman. A Four 
has buck teeth, a bowl haircut, 
and a body like the Tasmanian
Devil. Moss grows on her teeth. 
Dogs take four-block detours to 
avoid her. This woman will not 
only notice you, shell be grateful 
to you.
Three: This woman has two 
extra fingers on her left hand, a 
mustache, and weighs 230 
pounds. She knows how to belch 
the themes of popular show tunes.
Two: Men in the nineties will 
be drooling over this goddess, who 
was born with six arms and a tail. 
She can make your dinner, give 
you a massage, and clean the wax 
out of her ears all at the same 
time. And to think, in the eight
ies, she would have been consid
ered freaky.
One: Finally, the woman all 
sensitive nineties men are 
dreaming about. Her name is 
Roseanne Barr.
I want that woman.
Speaking of feminism, the longawaited Slumber Party Massacre 
///just came out, featuring Keely 
Christian as the latest symbol of 
American womanhood who takes 
on the Driller Killer. All movies in 
this series, beginning with Rita 
Mae Browns Slumber Party 
Massacre One, are written and 
directed by women, and all of them 
have creepola psycho villains who 
are sexually frustrated, so they 
take it out on women by splat
tering their guts all over the wall 
with a huge power drill (Symbol
ism! Symbolism!). In the big final 
scene of all three movies, the 
women get control of the drill and 
destroy it, if you know what I 
mean, and I think you do.
In case any of my feminist crit
ics are reading today, let me point 
out that this series of slasher 
movies is a) created by women, b) 
demeaning to men, and c) obvi
ously politically slanted to make 
us enjoy the destruction of the 
guys and the triumph of the gals.
I am not forming an organiza
tion to protest.
Girls have a slumber party. 
Guys crash the slumber party. 
Creepola hangs around outside. 
People start disappearing. And, 
of course, we have the alwaysnecessary-to-the-plot scene where 
the girl is electrocuted by a marital 
aid. The distant sound of a powerdrill turned on and ... well, you 
know the rest.
Nine breasts. Ten dead bodies. 
Chainsawed ankles. Power drill 
through the upholstery. For Sale 
sign through the chest. One 
stuffed swordfish. Spearguntothe 
leg. Bleach in the eyes. Polo mallet 
to the head. Gratuitous beach 
volleyball. Sledgehammer Fu. 
Vibrator Fu. Drive-In Academy 
Award nominations for Brittain 
Frye, as The Driller Killer, for 
crying as he says Shes stuffed in 
a garment bag in the closet! and 
for saying Be nice to Uncle, girls.
Keely Christian inspires fear in the hearts of bimbos everywhere as she 
prepares to steak-knife a psycho in Slumber Party Massacre III.
The first-time directing effort 
of Sally Mattison is a lot scarier 
than Number Two, but it doesnt 
really have the comedy ... so....
Two and a half stars.
Joe Bob says check it out.
Joe Bob Briggs is the one and 
only Drive-In critic from Grape-] 
vine, Texas.
Hurry to CFA for your chance to see Superstar
By MIKE SHAPIRO
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
What has 12 disciples, vengeful 
priests and pharisees, chilling 
crucifixionsand electric guitar? 
Why, nothing less melodically 
biblical than Jesus Christ Superstar, the latest offering of CMUs 
Drama Department, which comes 
our way next week.
Written by Andrew Lloyd 
Webber and Tim Rice  whose 
faces might as well adorn every 
dollar that ever passed under a 
box office windowJesus Christ 
Superstar is a rock opera loosely 
based upon the last week of 
Christs life, following his rise and 
fall in the eyes of the public, and 
culminating with the hysterical 
mob execution thats had Western
 Theatre Preview 
JESUS CHRISTSUPERSTAR. A rock 
opera loosely based upon the last 
week of Christs life  following his 
rise and fall in the eyes of the 
public. At the Kresge Theatre. Pre
views run from Thursday through 
Saturday. Opening night is April 16 
with shows running until April 27. 
For information about tickets call 
x2407.
civilization in such a snit for the 
past two millennia.
As if the premise werent con
troversial enough, Webber set the 
libretto to an irreverent, offbeat 
blend of funk and early 70s rock 
n roll. This, in combination with
Rices often tongue-in-cheek lyri
cal style, makes for a very enter
taining, as well as eyebrow-rais
ing, juxtaposition of atmospheres.
CMUs production is directed 
by Billy Wilson, whose credentials 
include terpsichorean roles both 
on Broadway and in Europe as 
well as at CMU. This background 
partially accounts for the heavy 
choreographic emphasis thats 
gone intothe production. However 
ponderous the subject matter, 
therell be no aimless onstage 
wandering here  Christ and 
friends are seriously going to get 
down and boogie.
The shoulder-jerking, hip-hop 
score that makes Superstar so 
memorable will be present in full, 
visibly performed onstage by pro
fessional musicians. While per
haps somewhat more modernized 
than the version that reverber
ated through theaters 20 years 
ago, the music should satiate the 
eardrums of even the most de
manding Webberites.
I think its going to be one of 
those shows that people are going 
to be talking about for a long
time, remarked Stage Manager 
Jeremy Eisen, I know everyone 
involved with it is very .excited.... 
Its a show with a great deal of 
energy. And it would seem that 
the world shares this assessment 
as well. Were almost sold out as 
is  with no advertising, beams 
Eisen.
CMU Music disappoints in Company
COMPANY, from page Lll
Although the lyrics feature 
Sondheims typical cleverness, the 
relentlessly go-go style of the 
music dates many of the pieces.
Ultimately, Company is some
what unsatisfying, largely be
cause the story itself fails to live
up to the quality expected of a 
Sondheim work. After the origi
nal ending was replaced with a 
more upbeat one, Sondheim 
himself admitted that it was a 
cop-out.
We follow Roberts encounters 
without ever becoming very in
volved in them, and when he af
firms the importance of marriage 
in the final number, it does not 
seem to follow from what he has 
experienced. The final result of 
Company is an empty feeling and 
a disappointing Sondheim musi
cal.
Where do you /T\ 
put your faith? VL/
An Exploration of the Worlds Religions
This new program is designed to explore a number of world 
religions, from Hinduism to Christianity. Members of the 
Inteifaith Council will present videos and facilitate discussions to 
help us understand where we put our faith and why.
Wednesday, April 10 4:30 pm to 6 pm 
Christianity
Skibo Room 12
Sponsored by the Interfaith Council and Student Affairs
ALL MATH AND 
MATH/CS MAJORS: 
PREREGISTRATION 
FOR FALL 1991
To avoid long lines, the Math Department is preregistering 
Math and Math/CS Majors only on April 16, 17, & 18 from 8:30 am to 4:00 pm
 Please see your advisor or Dr. Russ Walker to approve your courses on the form to be found in the Fall 1991 Schedule Book before coming to sign up for classes. It is to your advantage that you come in to avoid lines.
The Math Department will preregister all others and any math major who did not make the April 16, 17, & 18 preregistration on the Registrar's specified dates.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  8 April 1991LL3
5rrm im Gr G2s SsnG im ImidIGirm
The face of kids TV has 
I changed quite a bit over the years.
* When I was a child, I would rush
 home from school to watch The 
J Commander Tom Show. The 
!' Commander (who pretended he 
; was a weatherman during the 
; stations news) lived in a neati looking tower and had lots of 
I friends  consisting of both hu
mans and puppets. Mixed in with 
' their safety messages and stories 
\ were old Warner Bros, and Woody 
} Woodpecker cartoons, and some
times The Little Rascals and Three 
\ Stooges shorts.
Somewhere along the line, 
i Commander Tom was relegated 
' to Sunday mornings and all the 
old cartoons started appearing 
less frequently. Soon I came home 
to find my brother watching such 
classics as He-Man, Thundercats, 
Transformers, and G.I. Joe. My 
love for cartoons turned to disgust, 
and I kept my eyes on the sched
ule for reruns of my old favorites 
Bugs, Daffy, Fred, and Barney.
In the past couple of years, 
however, another transformation 
has taken place. Voltron and the 
Go-Bots have disappeared and 
have been replaced by new ani
mation from Disney, and even 
Warner Bros. Its a new age in 
cartoons; this is some of the 
highest quality animation ever 
seen on TV.
Everyone should enjoy this re
birth, not just kids. These toons 
are appealing to adults as well. 
Consider this a college students 
guide to kids TV. Ive made an 
exhaustive list of whats good and 
whats not in toonland. The list is 
limited to programs broadcast 
Monday through Friday, in the 
morning or afternoon. In other 
words, The Simpsons and Satur
day morning cartoons are not in
cluded here.
THE LAUGH TRACK
tb eJ Ko2(PT9( .i44T4o
Im also using a quack rating 
system in honor of that unfairly 
underbilled duck, Daffy. Four 
quacks is perfection, three quacks 
is damn good, two quacks is ad
equate, one quack is barely 
watchable, and zero quacks is 
potentially dangerous to life as 
we know it. The list is in ap
proximately descending order.
Tiny Toon Adventures: 4:30 
pm, channel 53, four quacks. Babs 
and Buster Bunny? Plucky Duck? 
I must admit I had doubts when I 
first heard about this show, billed 
as a miniature version of old 
Warner Bros, cartoons. However, 
any doubts I had were gone ten 
minutes into the first show. This 
really is a miniature version of 
the old Warner Bros, cartoons, 
with plenty of double meanings, 
inside jokes, and lots  I mean 
lots  of physical humor. Its the 
closest thing on TV to the zaniness 
of Roger Rabbit.
The Disney Afternoon: 2:30 
pm, channel 53, three quacks. This 
two-hour block, consisting of four 
shows daily (The Gummi Bears, 
Ducktales, Chip NDales Rescue 
Rangers, and Tale Spin) boasts 
high-quality animation and lik
able (if a bit too cute) characters. 
The last two are generally the 
best. The first two are aimed more 
at very little kids (but, then, so is 
Sesame Street, and thats pretty 
dam entertaining).
Merrie Melodies: 9:30 am,
channel 53, three quacks. Simply 
a repackaging of some of the best 
Warner Bros, shorts. But the 
quality of these shorts is enough 
to get it this ranking. Theres 
nothing better than a dose of Bugs, 
Daffy, or Sylvester to start your 
day.
Peter Pan & the Pirates: 2
pm, channel 53, three quacks. The 
animation made me do it. This 
Fox series has had a lot of pro
duction delays, but technically the 
show is first-rate. The plot, how
ever (when there is one), is a dif
ferent story.
The Flintstones: 9 am, chan
nel 53, three quacks. Okay, I ad
mit it, Im a softy for the Bedrock 
gang. The animation stinks, the 
jokes are really obvious, but I like 
it anyway. Definite nostalgia 
value.
The J etsons: 4 pm, channel 22, 
two quacks. This is The 
Flintstones without the nostalgia 
value: most of the episodes were 
made recently and just arent as 
good as the originals. Still, theres 
just something about Astro.
The Real Ghostbusters: 7:30 
am, channel 53, two quacks. 
Surprisingly good animated ver
sion of the movie filled with lots of 
fun, but limited in quality ani
mation.
Teenage Mutant Ninja 
Turtles: 5 pm, channel 53, two 
quacks. If it wasnt for the fact 
that the heroes were green and 
had shells, this could be almost 
any mediocre action-adventure 
cartoon. The Turtles keep me in
terested, though.
Dudley Do-Right: 8:30 am, 
channel 22, two quacks. Dont 
tune in expecting Bullwinkle and 
Rocky; you wont see them. The 
Dudley Do-Right skits are very 
entertaining, but the other sec
tions are uninspired.

[t\fln?i ! ilii iMs
- -,-j;__A J
LAST LECTURE
SERIES
The Cat 
That Curiosity 
Couldn't Kill
Professor Herbert Simon
University Professor of psychology and 
computer science and Nobel laureate in 
economics
5osnuIMg Cbliw ;g ';;' 
6 z N bd 
FItowGM Rimim Drrdg yeiSr 1Iww
reception to follow
The Last Lecture Series is an opportunity for 
the university community to hear faculty 
members present their ultimate lecture - 
the words they would choose if the 
lecture were to be their last...
ybrmnrlsu SM G2s Ri8inirm rk yGousmG CkkIiln
Tom and Jerry: 8 am and 3
pm, channel 22, one quack. 
Warning: these are not the origi
nal MGM shorts. These are 
hopelessly inane cartoons made 
in the sixties. Not worth your time.
The Super Mario Bros. Su
per Show: 6:30 am, channel 53; 
Police Academy: 7 am, channel 
22; and Video Power: 4:30 pm, 
channel 22, all one quack. Three 
shows whose most recognizable 
point is their common mediocrity. 
Boring action-adventures, every 
one.
Dennis the Menace: 7 am, 
channel 53; Alvin & the Chip
munks: 7:30 am, channel 22; 
Muppet Babies: 8:30 am, chan
nel 53; and Mighty Mouse: 3:30 
pm, channel 53, all one quack. 
Again, mediocrity, but this time 
its sickly sweet creatures doing 
nice things. Leaves a funny taste 
in your mouth. Really.
The New He-Man: 6 am, 
channel 53, zero quacks. He-Mans 
unsuccessful attempt at a come
back, which is just as well. I think 
the worlds probably a little bet
ter off without the stereotypical 
sex-role portrayals of Him-Guy 
and his muscular buddies.
G.I. Joe: 8 am, channel 53, zero 
quacks. Frightening. The show 
that refuses to die. This program 
is incredibly violent, overly pa
triotic, and downright damaging 
to peoples brains. The really scary 
part is that this show is still popu
lar.
So, there it is: what to watch 
and what to avoid. Kick back, 
relax, and soak in some toons: 
your brain will thank you.
Tartan Senior Staffwriter A. 
Franklin Wheeler is a junior pro
fessional writing major who has 
nothing to do all day but sit home 
and watch cartoons.
Druid breaks the 
fantasy mold
RD3Rg klrd bIs E'
strengthening the book rather 
than stifling it in fake senti
ment.
Brooks does such a good job 
that the sense of loss at the end 
maybe givingaway toomuch 
is overwhelming and painful 
because of this love affair, and 
has substance and poignancy 
which Ive never seen in a 
Brooks novel. You really feel for 
Brooks characters and share 
their pain; I know I did.
Is Druid worth buying in 
hardback? If youre like me, you 
couldnt wait: The Scions of
Shannara ended inaclifihanger
 something Im just not used 
to from a Terry Brooks book  
and so does Druid. But if you 
enjoyed the first few Shannara 
books, and can sift through the 
thick, descriptive text Brooks 
uses to set up the simplest 
conceptslike a bush or shrub, 
for instance  you wont come 
away disappointed.
The final book in the Heritage 
trilogy, The Elf Queen of 
Shannara, isnt scheduled to 
come out until next year. Hurry 
up, Mr. Brooks, I dont know if
I can wait another year.
C8IiwISws IG Mrol wrtIw SrrenGrls
ST. MARTINS PRESS
msms.
Dance Perfomances 
Short Skits 
Classical Indian Music 
&
Popular Indian Film Tunes Perfomed by
MELLON INSTITUTE AUDITORIUM
(At the Comer of Bellefield Street and 5th Avenue)
7:00pm FRIDAY, APRIL 12,1991
A Light Indian Snack will be served during the Intermission
Please contact one of the following for Ticket Information and Sales:
SKIBO INFORMATION DESK 
Aruna Chandrasekharan 
Vivek Gupta 
Mrinal Iyengar 
Madhumita Lodh 
Alok Sharan
268-2107
268-4560
268-4563
268-4587
268-2724 or 243-2707 
268-3525 or 687-2764
Guest Tickets will be available for $4, MEMBERS FREE w/MAYUR ID
MAyZMLis hIlmsis pswwrmYn 3muiIm CnnrtiIGirmE 52in s8smG in komusu im bIlG SM G2s yGousmG CtGi8iGisn FssE

---------------------------------------------------

L14The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  8 April 1991
Milk and Cheese W uIilM blruotGn rms SIu
Theyre violent, despicable, and 
filled with nothing but contempt 
f6r all of mankind. They feel no 
remorse, repress no impulse, and 
wreak inordinate amounts of 
havoc upon an unsuspecting 
populace with amazing frequency. 
America is under siege, dear 
readers, and we can do nothing to 
stop them. Who are they? What 
are they? They are Milk and 
Cheese, dairy products gone bad!
: Spewed forth from the bowels 
of a New Jersey farm, the carton 
of hate and wedge of spite set 
forth on their mission ofterror. In 
the tradition of other anti-social 
figures, these vivid portrayals of 
32 ounces of pasteurized and ho
mogenized hatred poke, no, stab 
fun at American icons. What we 
see in this incredibly successful 
barrage of shock humor is a well-educated milk carton and wedge 
of cheese showing us how absurd 
-America is.
In one interesting anecdote, the 
iterrorist foods decide they want 
;to incite revolution in New York. 
While making a lot of noise and 
jdestroyingmuch of Trumps Plaza 
Hotel in a light-hearted game of 
No Talent Celebrity Tag, Milk 
and Cheese draw the attention of 
the local police. When cuffed and 
told that they have the right to 
remain silent, Milk proclaims 
Viva la Revolution! as Cheese 
cries for democracy lost.
The police immediately feel the 
weight of the two-fisted terrors 
and the dairy fiends begin to plot 
.the overthrow of the police state 
iat they see New York to be. 
What next? Do we make 
molotovs? Burn the flag? Go unerground? Go on Oprah? they 
sk. But there is no answer for 
ur young revolutionaries. So they 
ecide to follow their natural tenencies and begin a revolution in 
lieir own unique manner. By
COMIC RELIEF
tb .2044U sA0029(
blocking subway traffic (throw
ing pedestrians on the tracks), 
offering free beer with riot, and 
showing young children how to 
clean and load a .38 revolver, our 
ultraviolent pals hope to spread 
the flames of revolution.
But they find their call for revolt 
falling on apathetic ears (after 
all, this is New York), so the 
mayhem ends with our fun-loving 
pair returning to another game of 
No Talent Celebrity Tag. Thus 
another adventure in the satire
laden, sadistic lives of Milk and 
Cheese comes to an end.
Why is Milk and Cheese so en
tertaining? The satire plays a 
large role. Truly it is a comedy 
with roots which He in making 
fun of our need to feel cultured 
and sophisticated. When denied 
access to a high-class, exclusive 
club, Milk proclaims Were way 
upscale! We name drop! I leave 
Spy magazine on my floor! Cheese 
here slept through Jean de 
Florette three times! Were hip I 
tell you! HIP HIP! V.I.P. HIP! 
Theyre kicked out ofthe club, but 
return momentarily by running 
their car through the front door of 
the club, killing everybody.
Oh, the violence! Theres an
other reason why Milk and Cheese 
is so amusing. Its not violence in 
the real sense of brutality and 
pain, but more dark humor as a 
block of cheese and a carton of 
milk destroy their cartoon world. 
Violence like Looney Tunes, ex
Nlilk and Cheese display what happens when you mix matches and gasoline.
cept theres blood on occasion. Its 
only a comic and all done in fun, 
so it should be understood in the 
context of a world in which dairy 
products can go bowling (and do).
Though the satire is an integral 
part of the book, its the amazingly 
original characters of Milk and 
Cheese developed by writer/artist 
Evan Dorkin which distinguish 
this book from the tons of black 
and white roughage which floods 
the shelves every week. If Milk 
and Cheese were allowed to re
main in a room for one issue and 
just speak to each other without a 
word of satire passing through 
their lips, they would be funny. 
They speak to each other with a 
bourgeois, overly melodramatic
flavor which is half the fun.
Artistically, the book is much 
more cartoon-like than conven
tional comics. Milk and Cheese 
are cherubic, with accentuated 
eyebrows and big, evil, intimidat
ing open-mouthed grins. Truly, 
Evan Dorkin has created two of 
the most visually striking dairy 
products this veteran column hoss 
has ever seen.
This month marks the first 
month ever in the history of man
kind that Milk and Cheese have 
been published in their very own 
comicbook. Forthepastfewyears, 
these terrifying characters have 
been ravaging the back pages of 
other well-established black and 
white books. This first issue com
piles the intermittently dispersed 
adventures into one easy-to-read 
issue titled Society is to Blame. 
How appropriate!
1991 Evan Dorkin
Tartan Senior Staffwriter 
Waseem Hussain is a junior biol
ogy major who still believes in the 
healing power of dairy fare.
JUST GRADUATED? 
HAVING JOB 
HUNTING PROBLEMS?
For a quick, easy, no-risk solution, 
call for free information pack
CAREER DYNAMICS INC.
The company that gets you prepared 
(412P 687-6354 
Open 7 days per week10 days till 
Spring Carnival 1991!
Be a Spring Carnival 
Security Monitor
Fashionable jackets 
State of the art 
walkie-talkie technology $$$$$$$
Applications available Monday, April 8 at Skibo Info desk
MANDATORY training session: 
Monday, April 15 
Skibo 13 
6:30pm-7:30pm
Questions??? call Phil at x4531 or Lance at x8670
A Game of Strategy, Endurance, And Fun!
Friday, April 1911:00 am - 3:00 pm On The Cut (by Warner Hall) Rain Location: The Gym
AIR BALL THE GAME WITH BOUNCE.
AIR BALL is 
played on a three 
foot air matress 
26' x 40'. Each 
team has nine 
players and each 
player has a 
marked area to 
cover. The walls 
and ceilings are 
nets so that you 
can play the ball 
off of them.The object ofthe 
game is similar to 
volleyball in that 
the player hits the 
18" AIR BALL over 
an 11 foot high 
net, and much like 
raquetball because 
the ball is played 
off ofthe ceilings 
and walls.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  8 April 1991L15
Thursday, April 11
Yaaba
Yaaba is the second feature-length work by Idrissa 
Ouedraogo and is set in a village not far from where 
he was born and brought up. The story centers 
around a 12-year-old boy and girl who are close 
Mends. However, the girl soon becomes ill, so the boy 
enlists the aid of an old woman and outcast of the 
village called Yaaba (grandmother in the regional 
language) to find someone who can cure her.
In addition to telling a moving story, Yaaba shows 
a side of life Americans rarely see  people who live 
in shacks without floors, eat the plainest of food, and 
in general live as the National Geographic has led us 
to expect of African villagers. Be sure to check out 
this winner of the International Critics Prize at the 
Cannes Film Festival.
At 6, 8,10
Friday, April 12
Dances with Wolves
Okay, this movie has won seven Academy Awards, 
has made more than $100 million, stars Kevin 
Costner, and youre saying you havent seen it yet? 
Well, nows your chance, because its playing in DH 
2210 and this movie is worth three hours of your time 
and one lousy buck.
Just in case you havent heard the plot to this 
movie yet, here it goes.... A Union soldier (Costner) 
gets assigned to a post far beyond the furthest 
reaches of American civilization and discovers a 
Sioux village near his post. Over time Costner be
comes friendly with the Sioux and becomes fasci
nated with their people and their customs. In the 
end, Costner must decide between his old life and 
that of a Sioux Indian.
Now, if the story isnt enough to make you see this 
film, then how about the great acting for which 
Costner, Mary McDonnell, and Graham Greene all 
received Academy Award nominations? Or how about 
the breathtaking scenery? Or the famous buffalo 
hunt scene? Whatever the reason, see this film. You 
have no excuse not to.
At 6, 9,12
Saturday, April 13
Presumed Innocent
Hollywood tackles courtroom drama and the law 
once again, this time in the box-office success Pre
sumed Innocent. Harrison Ford, Brian Dennehy, and 
Bonnie Bedelia team up for the screen adaptation of 
lawyer/novelist Scott Turows best-selling novel of 
the same name.
The death of Rusty Sabichs (Ford) extra-marital 
lover spurs an investigation in the DAs office that 
eventually points its finger directly at Rusty. Raul 
Julia plays the brilliant defense lawyer who tries, in 
the face of very incriminating evidence, to get Rusty 
off the hook. Rusty, an accomplished public defender 
determined to prove his innocence, works on his own 
case as well.
The viewer may get lost along the way, though the 
legal intricacies and plot twists. But as far as surprise 
endings go, this one will go down in history. Stick 
around for it. And even if you read the book, check out 
Presumed Innocent. Despite a few deviations, the 
movie remains faithful to the novel.
At 6, 8,10,12
Sunday, April 14
Old Yeller
When was the last time you saw this classic liveaction Walt Disney favorite? Its been a long, long 
time, I bet.
To refresh your memory, Old Yeller is the story 
about a big yellow mongrel taken in by a Southwest
ern family. In no time, the two boys of the family fall 
in love with the mutt, as will you. During the rest of 
the movie we get to follow the numerous adventures 
of Old Yeller and the two boys, that is, until the tearjerking conclusion.
So if you havent seen this film in a long time and 
'would like to see it again, or just want a real good cry 
(dont forget your hankie), then head on over to DH 
2210 and see Old Yeller.
At 6, 8,10,12
By KATIE CULBERTSON & STEPHEN 
GLICKER
TV BREAK
A summary of upcoming epi
sodes of Carnegie Mellons favor
ite TV shows.
Regular Network Programs 
ANYTHING BUT LOVE.
Wednesday at 9:30 pm, channel 4 
(ABC). Fun with a five-year-old 
just isnt Martys idea of a good 
time.
CHEERS. Thursday at 9 pm, 
channel 11 (NBC). Cliffs mom 
adopts Woody, much to Cliffs 
consternation, and Norm gets 
trapped in a window. (Repeat) 
DOOGIE HOWSER, M.D. 
Wednesday at 9 pm, channel 4 
(ABC). Anerdy type doesnt know 
howto have fun, until Vinnie gives 
him the leading role in a horror 
film. (Repeat)
FRESH PRINCE OF BELAIR. Monday at 8 pm, channel 11 
(NBC). Wills in love with a snooty 
woman, and his snooty relatives 
help him out with social rules. 
(Repeat)
LA LAW. Thursday at 10 pm, 
channelll (NBC). Atension-filled 
case dealing with a policeman who 
shot a black youth, a courtroom 
visit for the law partners to defend 
against Rosalinds charge that 
they forced her out, and Stewart 
has a heart attack. (Repeat) 
MURPHY BROWN. Monday 
at 9 pm, channel 2 (CBS). Not 
being shown due to a Pittsburgh 
Pirates baseball game.
QUANTUM LEAP. Wednes
day at 10 pm, channel 11 (NBC).
Not being shown due to a local 
special, Doctors II.
SEINFELD. Thursday at 9:30 
pm, channel 11 (NBC). Jerry 
doesnt like the new apartment 
cleaner, but Elaine is a friend of 
the cleaners girlfriend. What to 
do?
THE SIMPSONS. Thursday at 
8 pm, channel 53 (WPGH). 
Somehow, Marge ends up paint
ing a portrait of the inimitable 
Mr. Burns. Ringo Starr has a 
cameo.
STAR TREK: THE NEXT 
GENERATION. Sunday at 6 pm, 
channel 22 (WPTT). While the 
Enterprise is swept into the 
gravitational wake of two-di
mensional life forms, Troi sud
denly realizes her powers have 
left her.
THIRTYS OMETHIN G. Tues
day at 10 pm, channel 4 (ABC). 
Wedding bells are in the air for 
Ellyn, whos not so sure she wants 
to hear them, and Lee andMelissa 
make peace.
TWIN PEAKS. Thursday at 9 
pm, channel 4 (ABC). Cooper has 
a date with Annie, Catherinelooks 
in the mystery box, Gordon likes 
Shelly, but so does Bobby, who 
wants her to be the next Miss 
Twin Peaks, a position that Lana 
covets, and Windom Earle is up to 
his old tricks.
THE WONDER YEARS. 
Wednesday at 8 pm, channel 4 
(ABC). Kevins writing photo 
captions for the yearbook, but hes
D o you know that Jesus and Mary are 
reportedly appearing throughout the world?
1991 Eastern Regional Conference On
Apparitions Of The Mother Of God 
And Her Divine Son
July 13 and 14 
A.J. Palumbo Center 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
International visionaries 
and mystics will share mes
sages regarding world peace.
Renowned authorities will 
address the relationship be
tween the events of Fatima and 
current apparitions.
For brochure/registration form send request with a stamped, 
self addressed business size envelope to:
Our Lady of Peace Ministries 
1991 Conference Registration 
P.O. Box 22002 
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
Limited Seating  Register Early 
Interpreter for the hearing impaired will be provided
ByJyASOA NOMcADSMLV
Spending your SUMMER in Pittsburgh?
DUQUESNES 1991 SUMMER SESSIONS 
OFFER A WIDE RANGE OF:
*TRANSFERABLE COURSES*
* ACCELERATED SESSIONS*
START DATES MAY THRU JULY*
Registration for visiting students is easy - 
by phone, fax, mail or in person!
ayoutubou12
CALL 1-800-283-3853
for your complete 
SUMMER 1991 INFORMATION PACKAGE
treading on shaky ground.
Special Programs
ALL IN THE FAMILY. Monday-Friday at 10 pm and 10:30 
pm, channel 22 (WPTT). Repeats 
of this classic are now on twice a 
night.
ALL THE RIGHT MOVES.
Monday at 8 pm, channel 53 
(WPGH). An ambitious high 
school banking on a football 
scholarship to escape from a grim 
steel town. Starring Tom Cruise, 
Craig T. Nelson, and Lea 
Thompson.
CATCH-22. Thursday at 8 pm, 
channel 22 (WPTT). M*A*S*H 
goes off the deep end: a quirky 
look at the lives of American sol
diers at a base in the Mediterra
nean during World War II. Star
ring Alan Arkin, Martin Balsam, 
Richard Benjamin, Art Garfunkel, 
Jack Gilford, and Bob Newhart.
CHARLES IN CHARGE. 
Thursday at 6 pm, channel 53 
(WPGH). Its the pivotal episode 
that changed the series forever: 
Charles returns from vacation to 
find a new family inhabiting his 
house.
GIRLS OF SUMMER. Mon
day at 9 pm, channel 11 (NBC). 
A.k.a. Satisfaction, a really bad 
movie released to theaters in1988. 
Justine Bateman plays the leader 
ofa strugglingbandtryingto rock 
its way to the top. Not even Julia 
Roberts can save this stinker.
JOHNNY DANGEROUSLY.
Tuesday at 8 pm, channel 53 
(WPGH). Entertaining spoof of 
1930s gangster films. Starring 
Michael Keaton, Joe Piscopo, 
Marilu Henner, and Maureen 
Stapleton.
SHANNONS DEAL. Tuesday 
at 10 pm, channel 11 (NBC). Last 
years mid-season replacement 
returns in a new time slot. This 
week, Shannon gets a new job 
and a spiffy condo, but he must 
deal with a developer who is 
forcing tenants out of Shannons 
old apartment building.
Cable Programs
FELIX THE CAT. Thursday at
7 pm, Disney Channel. A featurelength cartoon featuring the fa
mous black feline. Voices by Chris 
Phillips, Maureen OConnell, Pfeter Neuman, and Alice Playten.
NEVER FORGET. Monday at
8 pm, TNT. Leonard Nimoy plays 
a survivor of Auschwitz who must 
prove in court that the Holocaust 
actually occurred. Also starring 
Dabney Coleman, Blythe Danner, 
Paul Hampton, Jason Presson, 
and Juliet Sorcey.
WE ALL HAVE TALES. 
Tuesday at 7:30 pm, Showtime". 
Celebrities tell folk tales with th 
help of drawings. This time up, 
Robin Williams tells the story of 
The Fool and the Flying Ship.
Compiled by 
A. FRANKLIN WHEELER
Four Star Pizza 
Welcomes You Back 
With This Fantastic Offer!
A Large Cheese Pizza
WITH ONE TOPPING FREE!
$ COOOnly
ADDITIONAL
TOPPINGS
50C each
Fast FREE Delivery
683-0400
Offer Valid 
To Deliveries Made 
To Campus 
Address Only.
FOU SU 
PvZZP
MORE GOOD NEWS FROM DATA GENERAL.
Data General is proud to announce a first quarter income of 
$12.4 million. And with an excellent proprietary product line based 
on high performance, fifth generation MV processors, and AViiON, 
our leading-edge, RISC-based jJNIX system, were well positioned 
to meet not only the needs of our customers  but those of the 
Class of 91 as well!
If you're about to graduate with a Computer Science degree, 
have coursework in OS, Data Communications and Software Engi
neering and are familiar with networking, C and UNIX, get your 
resume out to a company that's proven itself time and time again.
To learn more about the opportunities that currently 
exist at Data General, forward your resume to Data General 
Corporation, 4400 Computer Drive, College Recruitment,
MS A239, Westboro, MA 01580.
i w DataGeneral
HPtaIOUPM HP dCs,1CAs RJCC Egi'Ai. lUuysCOUuO- N iCJU1UOiiriii>lj-!.'ll Ir.iilrlM.irk 1.1 \l<\I llrll I............

---------------------------------------------------

Culture
through Friday. Weekend masses are 
celebrated at 7 pm Saturday and 10:30 am 
Sunday in the Graduate School of Indus
trial Administration auditorium. For more 
information call the Roman Catholic
David Lawrence Hall at the University of 
Pittsburgh.
Films
Admission for all DH 2210 films is $1 for 
students with ID, $2 otherwise. Admission 
to all Pittsburgh Playhouse films is $3, 
unless otherwise stated.
Yaaba will play in DH 2210 Thursday at 
6, 8, and 10 pm.
Dances With Wolves will play in DH 2210 
Friday at 6, 9, and midnight.
Presumed Innocent will play in DH 2210 
Saturday at 6, 8,10 and midnight.
Old Yeller will play in DH 2210 Sunday at 
6, 8,10 and midnight.
Notices
The Lesbian and Bisexual Womens 
Group will meet at the CMU Womens 
Center Mondays at 7 pm.
The GCMSO biweekly meeting will be 
held tonight in Skibo 12, April 22 in Skibo 
112, and May 7 in Skibo 12. All meetings 
begin at 6:30 pm. For more information see 
bboard+assocs. IM-GCM@Andre w.
A discussion on Jewish issues will take 
place at Bnai Brith Hillel tonight at 7 pm.
A Hillel community meeting will be held 
Tuesday at 7 pm in the Hillel Lounge and 
is open to anyone interested in Hillel. For 
more information call 621-8875.
Alvin P. Brannick, CMU senior vice 
president for legal affairs, will have an 
open office hour each Tuesday from 2-3 pm 
in Warner Hall 605 for students with legal 
problems. Call x3708 to make an appoint
ment.
The Carnegie Tech Radio Club will 
meet April 16 at 7 pm in Hamerschlag 401. 
Call 683-7586 for more information.
Rachel Stock, program assistant for Bnai 
Brith Hillel, will have office hours Tues
days from 4-6 pm at Hillel.
Carnegie Mellon Ballroom Dance Club
will have meetings Wednesdays from 7-11 
pm in the Mellon Institute Conference 
Room. Singles and couples at all experience 
levels are welcome. For more information 
contact Aki Ohshima at x7116.
A Poetry and Fiction Workshop is held 
every Wednesday at 8. pm in the Cathedral 
of Learning, room 204. Bring in finished 
works or write at the site.
A Maple workshop will be held Wednes
day in Baker Hall 140 from 5-6:30 pm. For 
more information or to sign up, call x5720.
The SCUBA Club will hold its monthly 
meeting Wednesday at 9 pm in the Tartan 
Lounge.
The Explorers Club weekly meetings 
will be held every Thursday at 6:30 pm in 
.Porter Hall 225C. For more information 
call Lee Janson at x3457.
The Carnegie Mellon Riding Club
meets every Thursday at 6 pm in Porter 
Hall 226C. Come talk to fellow motorcycle 
enthusiasts about racing, mechanics, and 
rides!
The seventh annual Great Book Sale, 
sponsored by Goodwill Industries of 
Pittsburgh, will be held Thursday through 
Sunday at the Shops at Station Square.
For more information call 481-9005, x260.
cmuOUT holds business meetings in 
Baker Hall 254C Fridays at 7:30 pm. 
Impromptu social activities often follow.
Religion
Episcopalians worship at the Church of 
the Ascension Sundays at 8:30 and 11 am. 
A class for college students is held at 9:45 
am. Services are also held Wednesdays at 7 
am. For more information call Hank Suhr 
at 621-4361.
Theater
1990 Orion Pictures Corporation
The three young Sioux boys shown above appear in Dances With Wolves, which will 
play in DH 2210 Friday at 6, 9, and midnight.
A night of fun is being sponsored by Hillel 
Saturday and includes Havdallah services 
in Margaret Morrison courtyard at 8:15 
pm, a laser show, The Doors, at the Buhl 
Science Center and a cookout under the 
stars. Cost is $7. RSVP by Wednesday at 
621-8875.
Carnegie Mellon Students for Peace
meets every Sunday at 7 pm in Baker Hall 
225C. All new members and views are 
welcome  please join us. For more 
information call x5501.
An auction and flea market, sponsored 
by The American Society for Technion, will 
be held Sunday at 10 am at the Synagogue 
Beth Shalom. Proceeds go to scholarships 
for students at the Technion in Haifa, 
Israel. For more information call 521-2542.
Volunteers are needed at LawrencevilleBloomfield Meals on Wheels, located at 
St. Augustines church on 37th Street and 
Butler. Meals are prepared every day of the 
year for people on special diets who are not 
able to cook for themselves. Help is needed 
in the kitchen and on the road at various 
times of the day. For more information or 
to sign up, contact Tony or Josie at 687- 
0830.
Seminars for the City of Pittsburgh 
Marathon have begun. The schedule 
continues with "Aids for Improving Run
ning Performance at 6:30 pm Friday at the 
Monroeville Palace Hotel. For more 
information call 647-RUNN.
Applications for the Kent D. Shaffer 
Memorial Scholarship are available at 
the Skibo Information Desk, the Hunt 
Library circulation desk and the A Phi O 
office (Skibo 54). The scholarship is 
awarded by Alpha Phi Omega to the 
applicant who best exemplifies the prin
ciples of leadership, friendship and service. 
Applications are due April 26 and can be 
turned in at the A Phi O office or the Skibo 
Information Desk.
Soundings is a new biweekly radio series 
featuring interviews, ideas, events, and 
personalities of the campus and urban 
communities. The programs will air every 
other Sunday at 8 pm on WRCT, 88.3 FM. 
For more information contact Kevin 
Goldsmith, general manager, WRCT, at 
621-WRCT or by email: 
WRCT@andrew.cmu.edu
Foreign language tables will be held in 
conjunction with the Modern Languages 
Department. All tables take place in the 
Morewood cafeteria unless otherwise 
stated. Tuesdays: II Circolo Italiano 
(Italian), 5-6 pm. Wednesdays: La Table 
Franaise (French) beginning at 11:30 am 
and Bentoo Lunch o nihongo de (Japanese) 
at noon in Baker Hall 228A. Please order 
lunch for the Japanese table on Tuesday in 
Baker Hall 160. Cost is $3. Thursdays: 
Deutscher Stammtisch (German) beginning 
at 11:30 am. Fridays: La Mesa Espaola 
(Spanish) and Russkaya Beseda (Russian) 
beginning at 11:30 am.
WPXI-TV/Channel 11 Volunteer 
Connection matches volunteers with 
families. If you have a service to donate to 
local families with Operation Desert Storm 
members, call the Channel 11 Volunteer 
Connection at 394-5380. Sponsored by the 
United Way Volunteer Action Center, Bell 
of Pennsylvania, and WPXI-TV.
The Road to Mecca by Athol Fugard, will 
play through April 21 at the City Theater. 
Showtime is 8 pm Tuesdays through 
Fridays, 6 and 9 pm Saturdays, and 2 pm 
Sundays. For more information call Caty 
De wait at 624-6469.
Flying Pig Theatre presents Show 
Stoppers Saturday at 8 pm at the 
Wilkinsburg Boro Building Auditorium.
Reality Optional, at the Artery, will have 
shows April 20, May 4 and 18. Curtain 
time is 7:30 pm.
An improvisation workshop will be 
held by Flying Pig Theatre Sunday at 1 
pm. For more information call 687-1136.
Company will be performed at the 
Winchester Thurston School at 8 pm 
tonight. Admission is $10. Call x2383 for 
more information.
The Pirates of Penzance will be per
formed Friday and Saturday at the 
Community College of Allegheny South 
Campus. Curtain is 8 pm. For more 
information call 469-6220.
The artwork of Jetelova, Walther and 
Matakos, Czechoslovakian, German, and 
Greek artists, will be on exhibit through 
April 28 at the Carnegie Mellon Art 
Gallery. Call x3110 for more information.
The Arditti String Quartet will perform 
tonight at 8 pm in Carnegie Music Hall. 
Seats cost $10 and $14.
A Celtic music performance will take 
place Wednesday at 5 pm. Call Mike 
Newton at x8164 for the location.
A variety show will be presented on 
Mayur night, Wednesday at 7 pm in the 
Mellon Institute Auditorium. Tickets will 
be available at the Skibo Information Desk 
for $4.
The University Choirs, under the 
direction of Robert Page, will perform in 
Alumni Concert Hall Wednesday at 8 pm.
The Crisis of the Left will be presented 
by Ernest Mandel at 7:30 pm Thursday in 
the Skibo Ballroom.
The Future of Socialism will be 
presented by Ernest Mandel at 8 pm 
Friday at the First Unitarian Church.
The Art of Peace in a World of War 
will be presented by Jim Frid and the 
Emissary Foundation at 8 pm Friday at the 
Friends Meeting House at 4836 Ellsworth 
Avenue. Admission is $7, $4 for students. 
For more information call Mary Jane Dix 
at (304) 599-8723.
Lectures
Gossamer Designing will be presented 
by Paul MacCready tonight at 7 pm in the 
Carnegie Lecture Hall.
The Cat that Curiosity Couldn't Kill
will be presented by Herbert Simon 
tomorrow at 5 pm in the Wherrett Room as 
part of the Last Lecture Series. A reception 
will follow the lecture.
Crisis in the USSR will be presented by 
Ernest Mandel at noon Wednesday in the
The womens tennis team will compete in 
the UAA Championships at Washington 
University of Missouri April 19-21.
The mens tennis team will compete 
against Westminster College Thursday at 3 
pm, and Grove City College April 17 at 3 
pm, and in the UAA Championships at 
Washington University of Missouri April 
19-21. The team will play at home against 
Malone College April 26 at 5 pm.
The mens outdoor track team will 
compete at the Clarion University of 
Pennsylvania Invitational April 13.
The womens outdoor track team will 
compete at home against Robert Morris 
College and Duquesne University Wednes
day.
The golf team will compete at home in the 
Pittsburgh Collegiate Championships 
Thursday.
Yom HaShoah, Holocaust Remem
brance Day service, will be held Thurs
day at 9:30 pm at Bnai Brith Hillel.
Spend Shabbat dinner at Hillel Friday. 
Happy half-hour starts at 6 pm, services at 
6:30 and dinner at 7:15. For reservations or 
more information call 621-8875.
The Roman Catholic Oratory celebrates 
mass daily at 12:30 pm in Skibo 39 Monday
to ETHAN FROME 
the one who can make you 
feel magical may be closer 
than you think, give one 
of your pursuers a chance.
from
Werewindle
NO ONE DISSES ME 
LIKE THAT AND GETS 
AWAY WITH IT...
Pepsi, NO Coke! (15-200)
How many times have you 
lied outside to make 
yourself feel fine? How 
many times have you cried 
inside? Ill tell you Im not 
growing old...
ok, if were going to be 
married, we may as well 
have sex a few times, 
besides, our daughter is 
still wondering where she 
came from and wants to 
know by Carnival...
guy from Burbank 
talk to me
you should know who by 
now
Ill be at the Yard every 
night from now til gradua
tion
Gabrielle
Looks like Dessert 
spoiled. I guess Ill eat 
elsewhere.
Armand
To ASs Son,
I am so sorry to have 
blown you off! My friends 
said you actually DID 
show up at the Yard! Well 
have to try again. My 
mistake...
Ginger
Chris says, If people could 
contort like Gum by, they 
wouldnt have to go out on 
Friday nights.
Gabrielle
Interesting news, my dear. 
I hear Dessert does in fact 
have a sex drive. Should I 
try to start it up?
Armand
Gabrielle
Looks like I should switch 
directions... again.
Armand
My dearest Brenda, 
Fridays!?! Really!!!
God
Stooge has been knocking 
boots with all his brothers 
mothers.
Dear Mike,
I have watched you from 
afar. I would like to be with 
you, but I have no courage. 
You dont have to look very 
far to find me, I hope you do, 
and I hope you dont.
 An anonymous, adoring 
former student
PEACHY,
Happy Birthday!! Now you 
are as old as I am. Gee, 
youre old. So did you like 
your present?? I Love You
ICEMAN
Congratulations!!
Stooge and Elle are engaged. 
It came from a very reliable 
source.
Bogoslav. 
An Irish-Mexican connec
tion.
Blue Eyes,
Happy 1.6 years. It seems 
like I have been with you 
longer than that. I am not 
complaining though. Lets 
make it many more. I love 
you.
Brown Eyes
American Psycho 
Gettin any? Bonus points for 
Name that Oscar Winner! 
Lets watch movies till we 
pass out one night before 
graduation, okay? Ill even 
help freak out your room
mate. Get drunk soon.
 Cheesecurls
Skinny dipping anyone?
Hey Matt,
We bought you the econo
size vaseline. Is this going to 
be enough?
Johnny
MIKE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Happy Birthday from Jeckyl, 
Beaker, and Reggie.
Hey Margaret, are you going 
to do the whole booth, too?
Busboys. Yum, yum!
Nick Carraway,
You made a promise to never 
forget me.
Please let me know you kept 
it.
Love always, Mattie Silver
To whoever ripped half of 
the hammers out of a piano 
in a CFA practice room:
A true musician would never 
destroy any instrument, no 
matter what the reason.
Especially those useless 
C.E.s with cars.
3/13/91  George discovers 
the pole thats been there all 
semester. Too bad Russ,
Tom, and Joseph: youre out 
of a job!
I screw myself out of days of 
work.
A.D.
Julie, Grace and Ann,
Men have only two faults: 
Everything they say and 
everything they do!
Sweetie 
No, I will never get tired 
of roses.
But I like the other 
flowers too.
I love you  huggs and 
kisses and all that good 
stuff!
Love Always
Congratulations on your 
initiation Kathy.
Love, Your Sisters
AD and BM 
Thanks for hanging out 
being single women 
Friday night. I had a great 
time. Let's do it again next 
weekend.
SK
Spud!
Bobo!
If I said, Here, let me 
dust you off, that would 
be objectifying you.
No, that would be bric-abrac-ing
Who are you playing with 
Jon
Himself
Great personal sacrifice 
Hey guys:
The drunken sot worked 
sober this week.
So there!
T
When I jump, theyll say 
How high?
Really, Chris? And just how 
high CAN you jump?
Vox Populi was 
created to be a fun 
outlet for stress. 
Please keep it clean 
and good natured.
