Inside
Calendar..................................................LIO
Classified.............................................................11
Comics......................................................L4
Diversions..................................................L7
Living......................................................L1
Forum........;................................................6
Sports.........................................................................12
Forum
Columnist wants sex
 see page 7
Features
Learn outside of class
 see page LI
Mary Tremonte/Tartan Junior Staff
Sports
Swimmers win season
 see page 12
THE TARTAN
Volume 92. Issue 15
Lunar Gala dazzles audience.
Carnegie Mellon Universitys Student Newspaper Since 19062 February 1998
11


'
SCS Dean resigns
By MAUREEN McGRANAGHAN
Tartan Staffwriter
Last Tuesday, Dr. Raj Reddy, dean of 
the School of Computer Science (SCS), 
announced to his fellow faculty members 
that he intends to resign as dean and 
return to teaching and research, effective 
June 1999.
Reddy became acting dean of SCS in 
1992, when then-dean Nico Habermann 
took a leave of absence and later suf
fered a heart attack. Two years after
wards, Reddy was officially made dean 
at the request of faculty and agreed to 
serve a term of five years. The faculty 
simply wanted him to do it, said Dr. 
Robert Thibadeau, senior researcher in
the Robotics Institute. But he was re
luctant. It was never something he was 
after.... The faculty of all the depart
ments under SCS would be happy if Raj 
wanted to continue [as dean], but we 
understand that he never really wanted 
the position, he said.
Since then, SCS has undergone many 
changes and additions. I feel very good, 
Reddy said of his time as dean. Weve 
doubled in size, created 10 new chairs, 
and added the undergraduate program 
in computer science.
President Cohon and Provost Paul 
Christiano are currently forming a com
mittee to assess SCS in preparation for 
the search for a new dean. Its a strategic 
Please see DEAN, page 3
Lisette Miller-Dixon/Tartan Darkroom Manager
Llsette Mlller-Dixon/Tartan Darkroom Manager 
Lunar Galas mix of student and commercial fashion designs entertained 
a full house in Rangos Hall last Friday. Please see related story on page L2.
Asian market crash hits home
News Analysis
By MICHELLE HAN
Tartan Staffwriter
Bankruptcy, unemployment, and bil
lions of dollars worth of debt are afflict
ing the once booming economies of the 
Asian tigers. Asias recent economic 
crisis, however, hits closer to home than 
many of us might think: for many Asian 
students at Carnegie Mellon, it means 
serious trouble in making ends meet.
People are having problems paying 
tuition, said senior industrial manage
ment major Loretta Chon, an interna
tional student from Korea. After Ko
rean currency lost roughly half its value, 
the cost of paying tuition practically 
doubled. Its like two Loretta Chons are 
going to school, said Chon.
; A lot of my friends are spending less, 
said Ivan Handojo, a GSIA masters stu
dent from Indonesia, whose local cur
rency, the rupiah, has lost 83 percent of 
its value to the dollar. I feel sad.... I 
think its a terrible problem.
The crash that shook Asia
When Hong Kongs stock market 
crashed in October, it set off a chain 
reaction of events across the world, leav
ing nations in Southeast Asia in 
economic turmoil. After shaking mar
kets in Europe, South America, and 
America, the economic illness leaves 
Thailand, Indonesia, Malaysia, and 
South Korea the hardest hit, with cur
rency exchange rates fluctuating wildly 
and devaluations ranging from approxi
mately 40 to 80 percent.
A chief cause of the currency drops 
was the many banks and companies in 
Asia who had borrowed billions of dol
lars abroad at low in
terest rates in order to 
channel money into 
their booming econo
mies. Often these companies would over
spend and expand at 
rapid rates. Foreign 
investors also took ad
vantage of the situa
tion to make money 
and, as a result, put 
too much faith in the 
stability of smaller 
Asian currencies without insuring 
against a fall. As pressure on currencies 
rose and stocks lost value in Hong Kong, 
a frantic selloff began in Japan first, 
then Europe, and finally on Wall Street. 
Asian currency values fell, and the to
tals owed by the Asian nations multi
plied to extraordinary amounts.
The four nations are slowly starting to 
put their economies back together after 
receiving major fiscal bailouts from the 
International Monetary Fund (IMF). But 
despite remarkable progress, said Mellon 
Bank chief economist Richard Berner in
a GSIA panel discussion last Wednes
day, the crisis is not over.
Theres going to be a lot more pain 
before this is all over. None of these 
lessons are new, Berner said. They 
just have to be relearned by people who 
werent around to learn them the first 
time, the hard way.
A headline hits home
The past decade has seen CMUs in
ternational student population nearly 
double: currently, in
ternational students 
make up more than 12 
percent of CMUs to
tal student body. Of 
the four Asian coun
tries in the most dis
tress, the largest 
population of students 
affected at CMU come 
from Korea.
The biggest prob
lem is Korea, and [the 
problem! is currency 
devaluation, said Linda Melville, for
eign student advisor in the Office of 
International Education.
The administration has agreed to post
pone tuition payment to April 1 for those 
students who are unable to pay right 
away. If students cannot make the pay
ments by then, they will not be able to 
register in the fall.
The problem right now is no one knows 
whether this is a long or a short term 
problem, Melville said. Most students 
are hoping it will be short.
Please see ASIA, page 4
Anthony Chao/Tartan Photo Editor 
Raj Reddy, current dean of SCS, announced that he will resign effective 1999.CMU unveils software 
development facility
William Holtz/Tartan Production Manager
By DANIEL ARP
Tartan Contributing Editor
Last Wednesday, Carnegie Mellon 
announced that it will establish a new 
center for software development called 
the Center for Information Systems En
gineering (CISE). The center, which is 
designed primarily to address the soft
ware needs of industries unrelated to 
national defense or the government, is 
a spinoff of CMUs Software Engineer
ing Institute (SEI).
Essentially, [CISE is] helping [com
panies] improve their software engi
neering processes and practices, so that 
when they develop their software, they 
can do it faster, cheaper, and with bet
ter quality, said Jack Hilbing, director 
of the new center and eight-and-a-half 
year veteran of the SEI. [Were] trying
to help industry solve its problems. 
Because of government-imposed re
strictions on the use of its technologies, 
the SEI is unable to work closely with 
some private industry.
A lot of the software improvement 
techniques and other advances in soft
ware engineering that the SEI is per
mitted to do for the defense department 
and related industries, it cannot do 
within its charter for industry gener
ally and especially internationally, 
said Paul Christiano, CMU provost. 
So the CISE ... can address these po
tential clients.
One of the early priorities of the CISE 
will be to work with more international 
corporations than SEI has been able to 
in the past. Hibling said about half the 
corporations the CISE is currently purPlease see CISE, page 3
Construction of Purnell Centers steel framework begins
By CHRIS CANNON
Tartan Contributing Editor
CMU construction manager Joe 
Greenway has a picture of 
Yosemite Sam on the left side of
upwards from that base. Well 
start Monday morning [Febru
ary 2] with steel going up, said 
Greenway.
A giant crane has been brought 
in to manage the steel girders, 
;his hardhat. Its a symbol that which weigh up to ten tons each. 
Ive carried with me ________________________________________________
from my younger 
days when I would 
% off the handle 
from time to time, 
said Greenway.
But since con
struction of the 
Purnell Center be=an on September BBBBy 
23, Greenways 
temper hasnt been tested. 
Everything has gone smoothly as 
burner Construction company 
has been digging, drilling, and 
Pouring cement to lay the 
foundation. Now, as construction 
n the Purnell Center continues, 
the workers are ready to build
It s all steel. You really dont 
have that on any other building.  
 Joe Greenway, 
construction manager
Concrete foundation and footers 
construction is 90 percent com
plete, but room has been left to 
place the crane at the center of 
construction, where its reach will 
encompass the entire site.
Steel will be brought in using 
the temporary road from Forbes
across the Cut. The trucks will 
exit from the CFA parking lot. 
Because of the nature of theatres, 
steel construction is complex.
It has construction materials 
that arent found in other build
ings, said Turner Constructions
_____________ Frank Pinciotti,
project superin
tendent for 
Purnells con
struction. Rope 
systems, pullies, 
its all to raise 
and lower props. 
Its all steel. You 
*5 really dont have 
that on any other 
building. Steel erection is right 
on time, thanks to the weather. 
Its been a great winter for con
struction, said Pinciotti.
About 40 people are working in 
the mild weather now, but by late 
fall there will be about 100 workPlease see PURNELL, page 3
Hillary Carey/Tartan Junior Staff
The Purnell Center for the Arts, slated for a 1999 opening, stands with a nearly completed foundation.

---------------------------------------------------

2The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  2 February 1998
 
Europe backs U.S. in 
possible attack on Iraq
LONDON (AP)  Assured Britain 
was solidly allied with theUnited States, 
Secretary of State Madeleine Albright 
today warned Saddam Hussein that 
any attack to open his suspected arms 
sites will be significant.
The reaffirmation by Foreign Secre
tary Robin Cook of Britains resolve 
contrasted with the hesitancy and 
outright opposition of some other U.S. 
allies and other nations.
It gave a lift to Albright as she wound 
up her Iraqi mission to Europe and 
headed for meetings on the crisis with 
Arab leaders in the Middle East. She 
also sought to make headway on the 
Arab-Israeli front in separate talks 
with Prime Minister Benjamin 
Netanyahu of Israel and Palestinian 
leader Yasser Arafat.
Both Albright and Gook excoriated 
the Iraqi president as not just in defi
ance of U.N. weapons inspections but 
also as a tyrant who used chemical 
weapons in the past and tested bio
logical weapons in his current devel
opment programs.
Cook said he would like to see the 
U.N. Security Council adopt another 
resolution finding Iraq in breach of 
the inspection system. But he agreed 
with Albright that there was no fur
ther legal authority needed for ap
proving an attack if diplomacy did not 
suddenly succeed.
At the Pentagon, Defense Secretary 
William Cohen said any military op
eration against Iraq would be unable 
either to topple Saddam or to elimi
nate his arsenal of deadly weaponry.
If there were military action, I think 
we should not raise expectations 
unreasonably high, Cohen told re
porters. What we would hope to 
accomplish ... is to curtail, as best we 
can, Saddam Husseins capacity to 
regenerate his weapons of mass 
destruction capability.
At a joint news conference with 
Albright, Cook said the situation was 
very grave and the United States 
and Britain were absolutely one in
our resolve. Albright said Britain 
stood shoulder to shoulder in our as
sessment of the crisis.
The London-based Arabic newspa
per Al-Hayat today reported the United 
States was planning a three-stage at
tack on Iraq, starting with a four-day 
air campaign against Saddams Re
publican Guards. Quoting Western dip
lomatic sources in Jordan, the newspa
per said Saddam would then get an 
ultimatum that included a demand that 
U.N. weapons inspections have unfet
tered access to all sites, includingpresidential palaces.
If Saddam refused, according to the 
report, a second air campaign would 
target the palaces and Iraqs infra
structure. A third stage would include 
the possibility of landing U.S. and 
British troops in sensitive sites in 
Baghdad, Al-Hayat said. The sources 
did not say if the troops would try to 
capture Saddam.
Cook also said that what was con
fronting the world was a straightfor
ward matter of preventing a brutal 
dictator from producing weapons of 
mass destruction. Every week, he said, 
Iraqi factories turn out material for 
missile warheads.
Albright, citing widespread reports, 
said, there is not a civilized person 
who would place women and children. 
around potential targets.
Albrights meeting Friday in Spain 
with Russian Foreign Minister 
Yevgeny Primakov highlighted the 
Iraqi policy that the U.S. had devel
oped. She said the United States was 
running out of patience, and she raised 
the prospect of attacking Iraqi sites 
where U.S. and U.N. experts believe 
anthrax and other biological weapons 
ingredients may be stored secretly.:
In Washington, Cohen was reviewing 
a proposal to send more planes, and 
perhaps even Marines, into the Persian 
Gulf region, Pentagon officials said. More 
than 300 U.S. aircraft and 24,400 
military men and women already are in 
the region.
Pro-life bombers 
kill Alabama cop
BIRMINGHAM, Ala. (AP) - When 
Robert Sanderson needed some extra 
money, fellow police Officer Scott 
Morro referred him to a security guard 
job at a health clinic where abortions 
were performed.
Morro remembered his friend with a 
strip of black tape over his badge Friday, 
a day after Sanderson was killed in an 
explosion outside the New Woman All 
Women Health Care Clinic.
I think their purpose in blowing up 
my friend is so that I wouldnt be 
out here, Morro said as he worked 
security at a nearby clinic. But its not 
going to work.
Authorities were searching for a North 
Carolina man who may have been a 
witness to Thursdays bombing, which 
also critically injured a nurse.
A warrant was issued for Eric Robert 
Rudolph, 31, said U.S. Attorney Doug 
Jones, who stressed Rudolph was not 
under suspicion in the bombing. No one 
should jump to any conclusions about 
the fact we are seeking Mr. Rudolph, 
Jones said.
Rudolphs pickup truck, which is reg
istered in Asheville, N.C., was seen 
near the clinic right after the bomb 
exploded. Jones declined to give fur
ther details on Rudolph.
The homemade bomb laced with nails 
blew up outside the clinic a week after the 
25th anniversary of the U.S. Supreme 
Court decision that legalized abortion.
Sanderson, 35, was the sixth person 
killed in abortion clinic violence since 
March 1993. He is the first to die in a 
U.S. clinic bombing.
Emily Lyons, a nurse and counselor, 
suffered extensive injuries to her 
legs, abdomen, and face, including the 
loss of an eye.
Diane Derzis, a co-owner of the 
clinic, said it would reopen soon, per
haps next week.
The clinic where Morro was working 
reopened in defiance Friday. This clinic 
stays open, read a sign in a window of 
the Summit Medical Center.
Two volunteers were outside the Sum
mit clinic by 8 am to escort patients into 
the building. Two police officers and a 
U.S. marshal stood watch.
Lisa Santer, one of the escorts, said 
it was her first time volunteering. 
She offered to help after hearing 
about the bombing because I was furi
ous. I think allowing a bombing to 
frighten us is not a fitting tribute to a 
person who gives their life or a part of 
their body.
NBC, TNT ponder 
forming NFL rival
ATLANTA (AP)  Turner Broadcast
ing and NBC, the networks shut out of 
the latest National Football League tele
vision contract, are discussing whether 
to try and start a rival league.
Time Wamer spokesman Ed Adler con
firmed Thursday that preliminary talks 
were under way between the companys 
Turner subsidiary and NBC. NFL spokes
man Greg Aiello declined to comment.
Under a deal reached earlier this month, 
Fox, CBS, ABC, and ESPN will pay at 
least $17.6 billion over the next eight 
years to broadcast NFL games. NBC and 
Turner Network Television passed.
Time Warner Vice Chairman Ted 
Turner has a history of using his sports 
properties, including the Atlanta Braves 
and the Hawks, for programming. He 
also started the Goodwill Games, at a 
cost of millions, when the Olympics were 
hit by American and Soviet boycotts in 
1980 and 1984.
A new football league apparently would 
start in 1999 at the earliest and compete 
head-to-head against the NFL in the 
fall, unlike the springtime United States 
Football League which started in 1984 
and later fizzled.
New England Patriots owner Robert 
Kraft said networks talk about feasibil
ity studies all the time, but that doesnt 
mean they do anything with them.
Another member of the NFL televi
sion committee, Denver Broncos owner 
Patrick Bowlen, said, You never say 
never, but there are a lot of bones out 
there of leagues that attempted to com
pete with the NFL.
Volcano eruption 
sheds light on life
SEATTLE (AP)  A massive under
water volcano has been erupting
scientists are scrambling to get 
closer to study how life survives deep in 
the ocean.
The eruptions at Axial Seamount are 
no danger to the public, said Chris Fox 
a National Oceanographic and Atmo
spheric Administration geologist who 
has tracked thousands of regional earth
quakes since the volcano awoke Satur
day night.
Axial rises 4,500 feet off the ocean 
floor about 300 miles west of Cannon 
Beach, Oregon. Its peak is nearly 4,000 
feet below the ocean surface.
The eruption could shed light on sub
jects as diverse as the origin of life, 
genetic compounds.
Also, studying the bacteria found 
in the eruptions hot spots might 
not only illuminate how life arose on 
Earth, but could describe scenarios 
where life might exist in hostile 
environments elsewhere in the solar 
system, including Jupiters moons, 
Fox said.
Unlike Mount St. Helens, which 
devastated hundreds of square miles 
with its 1980 explosion, Axial is more 
likely oozing lava' similar to volcanoes 
on Hawaii.
Amateur clowns 
lose instruction
TAMPA, Fla. (AP) - For 30 years 
Clown College taught the basics  how 
to apply your perfect clown makeup, 
how to take a pie thrown smack at your 
big clown nose.
Now the crme de la crme of clowning 
is moving on to more advanced lessons
 and thats bad news for amateurs 
wantingto learn about clowning around.
Ringling Bros, and Barnum & Bailey 
Circus has decided to stop offering its 
introductory classes in favor of Masters 
of Comedy workshops available only to 
experienced clowns.
Kenneth Feld, the chairman and chief 
executive of Feld Entertainment Inc., 
which runs Ringling Bros., said from his 
headquarters in Virginia, This will be 
like a masters class in clowning.
Even at Ringling Bros., there is less 
and less turnoyer among clowns. So the 
new challenge is creating better clown 
acts that are more refined, more skilled, 
acts that relate to the comedy of today,
off the Oregon coast for days, and Feld said.Developments in Washington scandal elicit more questions
WASHINGTON, D.C. (AP) - 
With no deal for Monica 
Lewinskys cooperation in sight, 
her lawyer said Saturday they 
would head back to California in 
the coming week. Prosecutor Ken
neth Starr said he was moving 
forward trying to gather the facts.
Lewinskys attorney, William 
Ginsburg, said he was not 
trying to send any messages to 
Starr with their impending de
parture. Were all tired from a 
frenzied week in Washington, 
he said, pledging to remain ac
tive in the case.
Ginsburg said Lewinsky 
wanted to spend time with her 
father in California and that there 
was no strategy to leaving. He 
said their departure would occur
sometime between Monday and 
Friday. Its just a young lady 
who wants to see her father, he 
said. Every 24-year-old girl needs 
to have a break.
Lewinsky also has a lawyer who 
is based in Washington, 
Nathaniel Speights.
With the key witness in his 
investigation planning to leave 
town, Starr went to his office for 
another weekend of work and said 
he was moving forward trying to 
gather the facts. Beyond that, 
he declined to give details.
Ginsburg said that absent a 
deal between Lewinsky and pros
ecutors, Starr could rely on use 
immunity, a process in which 
Starr would get a court order 
forcing Lewinsky to answer ques
tions before a grand jury or face 
jail. That testimony could not be 
used against her, but she still 
could be prosecuted on the basis 
of other evidence.
We have been telling the pros
ecutor consistently that if he 
wants full, complete, comfortable, 
relaxed cooperation, the only way 
hes going to get it is with full 
immunity with no threat of pros
ecution, Ginsburg said Friday on 
ABCs 20/20.
With Clintons approval ratings 
soaring despite the most serious 
controversy of his presidency, Re
publicans in increasing numbers 
are speaking out about the alleged 
presidential affair and cover-up.
I say to you, Mr. President, 
just four words: Tell us the truth.
Tell us the truth about relation
ships, said Republican National 
Committee Chairman Jim 
Nicholson. Nicholson did not 
mention Lewinsky by name, but 
referred instead to other figures 
whose names have come up in the 
campaign fund-raising and FBI 
files controversies. Nicholson, 
however, urged Republicans to 
refrain from reaching conclusions 
without having the facts. We 
dont really know what has hap
pened, he said.
After a rough week for Dad, 
Chelsea Clinton flew home from 
California. Arm in arm, she and 
Clinton escaped to the seclusion 
of Camp David, where the presi
dent went out for a round of golf.
The college freshman made the
cross-country flight just for 
the weekend. But a spokeswoman 
dismissed any suggestion that the 
daughters homecoming had 
anything to do with this weeks 
sensational headlines, saying 
the visit had been planned for 
some weeks.
Ginsburg played down the sig
nificance of items Lewinsky re
ceived from the president, telling 
ABC, Theyre ashtrays, theyre 
a sleeve of golfballs, theyre things 
that just dont add up.
Asked whether Lewinsky had 
received a dress from Clinton, 
Ginsburg replied, Unless you 
consider a long t-shirt a dress, 
the answer is no.
Ginsburg cast doubt on the 
truthfulness of Linda Tripp, a
one-time friend of Lewinsky 
who secretly taped their conver
sations. The lawyer denied 
Tripps assertion that she had 
overheard Lewinsky in a 2 am 
phone call with the president 
in November. Ginsburgs 
comments infuriated New 
York book agent Lucianne 
Goldberg, a friend of Tripp who 
threatened to release audiotapes 
of her own September conversa
tions with Tripp about Lewinsky1 s 
alleged affair with Clinton.
Everybody will be sorry and 
surprised, Goldberg said of her 
tapes. She said they would leave 
no doubt about Tripps veracity. 
It was Goldberg who had urged 
Tripp to tape her conversations 
with Lewinsky.
Four-Day Forecast
Tuesday
mi
Showers with sun. 
HI 50 Lo 33
Wednesday
fit
Rain.
Hi 43 Lo 35
ThursdayRain and snow.m
Hi 36 Lo 34
FridayPartly Cloudy. 
Hi 35 Lo 23
50 YEARS AGO, March 9,1948
 Carnegie Tech voters were 
ready for the upcoming Student 
Council elections which were go
ing to be held later that week. 
Unlike today, students would run 
under tickets. Some of the par
ties including Citcom Clan, Inde
pendent Action Committee (IAC), 
and a slew of independent forces 
were readying for the impending 
election.
The reason the election was 
being held so late was because 
errors were found in the elec
tions procedure by leaders of 
IAC. Observers predicted that 
IAC would achieve its goal of 
increasing the then-meager 
number of independent repre
sentatives in Student Council.
25 YEARS AGO, January 23,
1973  Metropolitan Pittsburgh 
From National Weather Service bulletins and other sources public radio stations, WQED 13
Carnegie Almanac
and WQEX 16, announced that 
their new public radio station 
WQED-FM would begin broad
cast operation Thursday, Janu
ary 26. The station initially broad
cast 18 hours a day, featuring 
classical and jazz along with local 
artists of Western Pennsylvania.
WQED has been dutifully serv
ing Pittsburgh ever since, and 
now includes National Public 
Radio news broadcasts as part of 
its daily lineup.
10 YEARS AGO, February 2, 
1988  University Housing an
nounced a new policy on the entry 
of student dormitory rooms by 
Unversity employees. Previously, 
no notice was required, but under 
the new policy, students were to 
be given 24 hours advance knowl
edge of the entrance. Although 
the rule applied mostly to physi
cal plant employees entering stu
dent rooms, there also were rami
fications involving policy regula
tions. If a violation was found, the 
item in question under the new 
policy was not to be confiscated, 
but the University did reserve the 
right to bring charges against of
fending students.
FIVE YEARS AGO, Febru
ary 2, 1993  Student Senate 
passed legislation that allowed 
it to confiscate the property of 
student organizations funded by 
the activities fee, if an organiza
tion violated fiscal policy. Sup
porters claimed it was tangible 
evidence of Student Senate work
ing to protect the interests of the 
student body.
Senators said that the amend
ment would be very useful if an 
organization were to become abu
sive. Michael Loomis, former F&R 
chair, said the property of stu
dent organizations is property of 
the students, not of the clubs.
ONE YEAR AGO, February 3, 
1997  Student Senate received 
notice of an $80,000 surplus which 
resulted from the unanticipated 
low enrollment of the freshman 
class. In response, Senate formed 
a surplus commission to collect 
ideas and make recommenda
tions for spending the extra 
money. Bryon Krug, student body 
president, assembled the commis
sion of 10 students. To help gather 
ideas, Senate placed ballot boxes 
in many areas around campus, 
and a bboard was developed 
for discussion of the proposed 
ideas. In addition, all serious sug
gestions were to be entered in a 
raffle for $50.
Compiled 1f 
RYAN D. SCHILLING

---------------------------------------------------

UFO expert
The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  2 February 1998
Steel work begins on Purnell
PURNELL, from page 1
ers on the site, the largest number 
of subcontractors that will be 
working on the building. Accord
ing to Pinciotti, at least 22 sepa
rate contractors are contributing 
to construction. Take the 
waterproofer, said Pinciotti. He 
pointed towards a worker apply
ing black sealant to the founda
tion. Hes got one of the 
smallest contracts on the job, 
but hes important.
The next construction mile
stone is pre-cast and masonry 
work, which could start as soon 
as April. Despite problems that 
developed earlier due to 
the buildings location, construc
tion has been progressing 
smoothly. The sloping hill on 
the west side of the Cut is 
not natural land; rather, it 
was formed about 70 years ago
when the Cut was filled in during 
other construction.
There were some problems, 
even though we did some core
borings, said Greenway.
While drilling, workers would 
sometimes hit large, loose objects 
suspended in the soft soil that 
couldnt support the buildings 
weight. All the digging, however, 
makes for a large site and extra 
work at the end of construction. 
Of the dirt we took out, we have 
to put 75 percent back in, 
Greenway said.
According to Greenway, con
struction is set to end in Septem
ber of1999, but the building wont 
be open to the public until around 
November 1 of next year. Theres 
a lot of furnishings that have to 
go in place, [including] special 
riggings, said Greenway.
According to Pinciotti, the
greatest expenses are for con
crete, steel, mechanical gearing, 
plumbing, and electrical wiring. 
Dollar-wise, were ten percent 
complete, he said. The entire 
project is estimated to cost $30 
million, but the amount to be 
spent on construction itself isnt 
indicative of the total amount of 
work to be done. Some of the 
interior finishes are labor-inten
sive, said Pinciotti.
The Purnell Center is the last 
building to be constructed as part 
of the campus master plan.
No date has been set to begin 
construction on the extension to 
the building that will run in front 
of Warner, mirroring the Univer
sity Centers covered walkway 
along the sides of the Cut.
Greenway said that there are 
future plans to resod the Cut, but 
none to replant the hillsides trees.A bulldozer and crane have been brought to the Purnell Center site to aid Turner Construction company.Dean returns to teaching
DEAN, from page 1
planning exercise, an assessment of 
the state of the college at this point and 
where we need to go, Reddy said. Who
ever is coming in needs to know what 
the expectations of the faculty and stu
dents and University president are.
The search committee for the new 
dean will be formed in the summer of 
1998, and Cohon will consider candi
dates at the end of the year. Reddys 
five-year term ended in 1997, but he 
agreed to continue as dean until 1999 
in order to ease the Universitys transi
tion to a new president.
Reddy has been on the faculty of 
Carnegie Mellon since 1969 and 
founded the Robotics Institute in 1980. 
In 1995, he received the Association for 
Computer Machinerys Turing Award 
for his significant contribution to the 
computing community, and he contin
ues to work on several research projects.
Along with Thibadeau, computer sci
ence researcher Jaime Carbonell, and 
Michael Shamos of the Language Tech
nologies Institute, Reddy is currently 
working on Universal Library, a project
that aims to put all written works ever 
printed on the Internet, creating an elec
tronic storage space for published mate
rial.
It will take a lifetime of work for many 
people, Reddy said. The project also aims 
to recreate electronically the physical 
attributes of certain antique texts, such 
as torn and yellowed pages, using a 
method developed by Thibadeau and 
Evan Benoit, an undergraduate in com
puter science. Reddy is also researching 
speech recognition in order to develop 
computers that can both hear and speak. 
Additionally, he is helping to develop a 
project known as Next Generation 
Internet, which will improve the quality 
of internet access available to users 
throughout the world.
As of June 1999, Reddy will be working 
full time on research and doing more 
teaching, including both undergraduate 
and graduate classes.
I think his shoes will be hard to fill, 
said Jonathan Betz, a junior computer 
science major. But its great for him if 
hes going back to teaching because thats 
what he wants to do.
CMU announces new research center
CISE, from page 1
suing are international corporations.
The center is currently exploring 
opportunities to do business with 
European corporations. Additionally, 
it is collaborating with research groups 
from other universities to assess 
the state of the software industry 
in India.
Although it was formed to fill a gap left 
by the SEI, the CISE will be considered 
part of the Carnegie Mellon 
Research Institute (CMRI) instead of the 
SEI. The CMRI is the Universitys other 
major research arm, whose focus is more 
on implementation than advancement 
of technologies.
[CISE] provides a new capability to 
the CMRI, one that is related to 
software engineering, which the CMRI 
does not currently have, said Christiano.
Hilbing noted that the SEI is currently 
working in a collaboration mode with 
government defense industries, but that 
the CISEs purpose is to translate tech
nologies that the SEI had not fully devel
oped to industries.
As yet, the CISE only has five perma
nent employees and a number of parttime employees. I would expect it to 
grow fairly rapidly, that is, to two times 
the size in the next couple of years, said 
Christiano.
The CISE will also work on exploiting 
the knowledge of colleges like SCS, GSIA, 
and the Heinz School. If you can utilize 
the strengths of the other thousand or so 
faculty when necessary, you really have 
something, said Christiano.
Industrial funding has been in decline 
at CMU since 1986. According to the 
CMU self-study, a document prepared by 
the University as part of its strategic
planning process, With the likelihood of 
government research support declining 
in the near future, Carnegie Mellon must 
pursue a strategy of diversifying its 
sources of research funding.
Christiano said the CISE was not a 
solution to the complex industry issue. 
[The creation of the CISE] was not in 
direct response to any statistics about 
industry support  it was just an oppor
tunity, he said.
I am really excited about this, said 
Hilbing. I think weve got a good chance 
to help industry, and weve got a good 
chance to help the University.
Corrections/Clarifications...
In the January 19 article Robotics Institutes Nomad braves Antarctican 
summer, The Tartan incorrectly stated that the robot Nomad is in Antartica 
with researchers. Nomad will not travel to Antarctica until 1999.
In the January 26 article Ex-marine gives speech, the front-page quote 
was incorrectly attributed to Pat Mooney. Nathan Locklin, a University of 
Pittsburgh junior, actually made the statement.
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of an error, please 
contact Editor-in-Chief Becky A. Cowser at tartan@andrew.cmu.edu.
thu 19 She's Gotta Have ItHoia Daring is not guile sure who she wants - but shes 
gain down la three. Spike Lee directs this him about her 
relationships and the pressure on her to make a choice.
fri 20 Eves BayooA doctor starts flirting with a married patient, not 
knowing that he is observed by his voungest daughter 
Eve. She cannot forget it. shares ber secret with her 
sister, and lies start to roll..
sun 22Thougher than leatheris eighties rap superstars Run-DMC hunt down the evil 
drugloffl/record comnay executive that murdered their 
triend. they encounter racist bikers, blond bimbos, and 
the Beastle Bovs.
tue 24 Dead PresidentsDirected by the Hughes Brothers [Menace II Society), 
this Him addresses the Issues ol Black Americans' 
involvement In the Vietnam War and their subsenuent 
disillusionment with progress in social issues and civil 
lights back home in the United States, during Ihe 1960 s.
kissfigirls
All tuesdav movies are free; the rest are $1 with CMU ID. $3 without. Brought to you by AB films and SBC films.
hme
mS
tue 3 GloryCritically acclaimed Civil War drama about the first 
regiment of black soldiers and the prejudices they had 
to overcome. Starring Denzel Washington in an Oscar 
winning performance, Morgan Freeman and Matthew 
Broderick.
sat 7 Kiss the GirlsAided by and excaned kidnapee (Ashley Juddl. Morgan 
Freeman hunts down a kidnapper, who operates under 
the pseudonym "Cassanova."
sun 8 Black ShampooJonathan Knight, master lover and hair stylist 
extraordinaire, transforms from the loving machine into 
the killing machine as he takes it to the mob. chalnsaw 
style.
tue17 Soul FoodA mother is trying to protect hBr family by Inviting her 
three daughters and their families to dinner every 
Sunday night. When she becomes il, the family starts 
falling appan and struggles to become united again.

---------------------------------------------------

4The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  2 February 1998
Economic crisis creates hardships for CMU students
ASIA, from page 1
But she is concerned that more 
students may be affected than 
are coming in for advice. So far, 
21 Korean undergraduate stu
dents have met for advising con
cerning difficulties in paying tu
ition. Melville pointed out that 
while this is not a large number, 
21 out of 67 total undergraduate 
students from Korea comprises 
almost a third of that population.
Melville stressed that it is im
portant for students to not wait 
until the last minute for financial 
counseling so that advisors have 
time to plan better solutions to 
problems students might be fac
ing. Students troubles range any
where from a parents loss of in
come, to not being able to access 
money because of the Korean
governments freeze on convert
ing currency, to the strain of mak
ing tuition payments with the se
verely devalued Korean won.
[Korean students] dont really 
come in for help, Melville said. I 
am worried about it from that 
perspective. Everyone comes in 
at the end of his rope.
People are having a hard time, 
but they have too much pride to 
admit it, said Chon, who 
watched countless stories on Ko
rean network news of people los
ing their jobs.
Seung Chan Lim, a junior com
puter science major and president 
of the Korean Students Associa
tion (KSA), agreed that students 
are hesitant to come forward with 
their concerns. Not that many 
people say out loud that theyre in
big trouble, he said. I dont think 
people want to let people know 
[their situation]. Theyre more 
likely to cover it up.
Finding an answer
Although students might try to
trying to find help for interna
tional students, who are tradi
tionally required to pay full tu
ition and are not eligible for finan
cial aid. Like CMU, many other 
colleges across the United States 
are exploring ways to help Asian
People are having a hard time, 
but they have too much pride to 
admit it 
 Loretta Chon, senior IM major
cover up hardships, assessment 
of their situation is key to getting 
them help. Melville said that the 
number of people coming in for 
advising will be a definite factor in
students stay enrolled, mostly in 
the form of tuition installment 
plans or payment deadline exten
sions as temporary solutions.
Discussion concerning a long
term plan for CMU students af
fected by the crises is also under 
way, Melville said. Several fac
tors would determine the type of 
aid available, including the 
students year in school. For ex
ample, a fifth-year architecture 
student, who has already invested 
four and a half years in the school, 
would be considered differently 
than a freshman in architecture 
who is unable to make payments.
In addition, Melville received a 
letter from the government of 
Korea requesting information on 
the number of Korean students 
currently enrolled at CMU.
Everybodys holding their 
breath, Melville said. Especially 
the Koreans. The real problem is 
that no one knows how long this 
is going to last.
AWTHfS AWTA PAYCHECKToon
The fun doesnt have to stop when the 
paychecks start. Especially when you join 
Adobe. We offer big-company success 
with a small-company attitude. Of 
course, we didn't become one of the 
world's largest personal computer soft
ware developers without lots of hard 
work. But when your products lead the
industry year after year, enriching the 
way everyone communicates, you have 
plenty to smile about. So if you agree that 
it's possible to have fun while doing inter
esting and creative work, Adobe may be 
the place for you. To learn more about 
opportunities at Adobe, visit the Career 
Center and sign up for an interview.
INFORMATION SESSION
Wed., Feb. 4
Location: Check with career center for location and time.
Adobe Illustrator' or Adobe Photoshop' will be raffled off to a lucky winner!
ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS
Thur. - Fri., Feb. 5 & 6 
19 Warner Hall 
Career Center
Email your scannable resume to: jobs@adobc.com. Mail to: Adobe Systems, College Recruiting, 
Dept. COLRE9798, 345 Park1 Ave., San Jose, CA 95110. FAX to: (408) 536-6818. EOE
Adobe, the Adobe logo und ull Adobe products arc trademarks c 
Incorporated. All rights 'reserved.
Adobe Syste/ns Incorporated. 1998 Adobe Systems
MATH* ELECTRICALG COMPUTER SCI ENGINEERING MECHANICALENGINEERING* BUSINESS ANALYSli
TAKE TECHNOLOGY
y idHJkLW  111 g T 1 B S> ft"fOiO fff ' &Yfl
When something is too extreme for words, it's to the Nth degree. And that's the 
level of technology you'll experience at Raytheon.
Raytheon has formed a new technological superpower-Raytheon Systems 
Company, composed of four major technological giants: Raytheon Electronic 
Systems, Raytheon E-Systems, Raytheon Tl Systems and Hughes Aircraft. 
The new Raytheon Systems Company is driving technology to the limit. And 
we're looking for engineers who want to push the envelope. Break new ground. 
Make their mark.
At Raytheon, you'll take technology-and your career-to the highest possible 
level. You'll lake it to the Nth. We'll be visiting your campus soon. Contact your 
career placement office now to schedule an interview, or check out our website 
at www.rayjobs.com. If you are unable to meet with us, please send your resume 
to: Raytheon Staffing, RO. Box 655 474, MS-201, Dallas, TX 75265. We have 
many exciting opportunities available and we would like to talk to you.
Melville also brought up the 
possibility that parents might not 
have told their children how dire 
a financial situation the family js 
in. The issue is so sensitive, the 
culture doesnt allow them to talk 
about [such] things.
Lim added that most Korean 
parents do not want financial con
cerns troubling their children in 
school, and that the parents 
believe working hard on their 
studies should be the students 
main focus.
Usually my parents dont re
ally talk about money to me, he 
said. But then my mom was saying Save up a bit, and I knew the 
situation was really bad.
Lim also said that although 
Asias economic troubles may not 
visibly appear to affect people 
Korean students at CMU are at 
least being affected mentally.
KSA, whose homepage 
currently posts up-to-date ex
change rates of the Korean won 
versus the dollar (http://
www.contrib.andrew.cmu.eduI 
~ksa), collected over $300 last 
semester to send to North Korea 
as a famine relief fund and also 
hoped to offer assistance to South 
Korea. But even a hundred times 
the amount collected would not 
put a dent in the $57 billion debt 
Korea will have to pay back over 
the next few years. The $57 bil
lion is the largest rescue package 
ever issued by the IMF.
Theyre really an innocent 
people caught in the crossfire, 
said Berner of Asian students 
studying in America. He said it 
was unfortunate that students 
pursuing their education are 
forced to be concerned with the 
economic welfare of their country 
and families back home. I am 
convinced the Koreans are seri
ous about solving their problems, 
said Berner.
While their country struggles 
to get back on its feet under 
sweeping IMF reforms and the 
upcoming new presidency of 
Kim Dae-Jung, many Korean 
students feel that putting their 
noses to the grindstone is a 
proper response.
The situation is very bad, but 
this is a good chance for Korea. For 
several years, Korea spent a lot of 
money. We have to consider what 
we were doing, said graduate stu
dent in environmental engineer
ing Joonhong Park. Life here is 
simple  just study and home. I 
spend less money; I think every 
Korean is trying to do that.
Needa Imi!
CUck*is ^. Axlvace Vu ptopU
Cancun $399 
Jamaica $399 
Puerto Rico $599
GEE: Council an International 
Educational Exchange
118 Meyran Avenue Pittsburgh
'J (412) 683-1881
i
$PR.IC mAlC
28 hours of all-you-can drink
FREE
in CANCUN & NEGRIL
from $389
packages also available to: 
Nassau, Bahamas, Panama City. FL 
Ft. Lauderdale, FL * S. Padre Island, ^ 
Travel Free - Call for Details 
800-657-4048
Internet: www.rayjobs.com  E-mail: resume@rayjobs.com
U.S. citizenship may be required. We are an equal opportunity employer.Raytheon
LunarG ldazG Gesilc

---------------------------------------------------

^Camegie Mellon
^ ENGINEERING
JuniorSo tiafSfPfo le soDEiANAr, pnAPgN, 
3DLiAMNogroa sEo 3Dugo-SD 3DESoxo-oif le 
sEo /ANNAMSir TirSioonSir kigonrnugPufoa mEA 
Guxo ooi du-og sA sEo couiha RSaf /An sEo
Fall Semester 1997:
Oiii'&O
O&Yli'O
Gil AlterovitzECEDongran HaCEEJohn H. PaulMEG/EPP
Mark D. BedillionMEGWade G. HenningMEGKaren E. PinkstonCEE/EPP
Jason M. BerzanskyCHEBrian T. HoffmanCHE/EPPJonathan B. PompaMEG
George A. BlahaMEGBrian J. IngramMSEStephanie L. PostalECE
Gabriel F. BrissonECEElizabeth M. JacobsCEE/EPPPradya PrempraneerachMEG
Jason W. BuelowMEGAltug KoymenCHEAlejandro M. RodriguezECE
Bryan G. CampoCHE/EPPBryon P. KrugECE/EPPAndrew C. RyanECE/EPP
Brian M. ChristopherCHEVolkan KukrerECEDaniel F. SchmidtMSE
Lisa A. CookCHEBrian A. LandauMEGTimothy A. SeigerECE
Benjamin C. CordesECEAndrew R. LeberMEGParag S. ShahCHE/EPP
Michael J. CurrieECEJay P. McCormackMEGAnthony M. SpotoMEG
Kris N. DahlCHEKendra M. McCoyCHEJennifer R. SweterlitschMEG
Michael J. DuttCHEJason R. McDowallECERobert R. TaylorECE
Stephen R. FoxCHEVolus T. McKennaMEGMary C. WallCEE
Kathleen A. GallagherMSEArmando F. MorrealeMEGChui WangMSE
Nathan A. GillMEGDilip R. MujumdarMEG/EPPScott J. WeberECE
Garth R. GoodsonECEPhilip T. OHaraECEPaul J. WeissmanECE
Erik S. GrossECEGlen C. OngECEMing-Yuan YehECE
Rachelle R. AbatiCHEWilliam J. HoltzECESooksan Panichpapiboon ECE
Kevin M. AlmirallCEE/EPPJonathan M. HsiehECEErnest J. PusateriECE
Juliana A. BakarECERaymond C. IpCHESarah M. PutaroCEE
Hemant BhanooECEKyle E. JenningsECE.Eric R. ReifECE
Allison L. BruceECERichard J. JuhnECEErin M. RockwellCEE
John M. CafardiCHECheryl J. KaminskyCHENia N. RodgersCEE
Michael S. CampieCEERyan C. KelloggECEJonathan M. RowlettECE
Thomas M. CasparECEBradley M. KeryanECEZalifah M. SahirECE
Nancy A. ChackoECEOren M. LasklnECEScott P. SannerECE
Matthew K. ChamberlainMEGSumit LohiaECEBarry C. SchneiderECE
Paris J. CoxMSECourtney E. MarrettMEGMichael D. ScottECE
Nathan T. DanielsonCEEBryan A. MeyerECEMichael S. ShellCHE
Brett M. DiamondECESupratik K. MoulikCHEDavid I. SimonECE
Samuel Ferraro-PollakMEGClarence C. MysenECEMichael A. SlowikCHE
Brian E. FrankelECEChristopher H. MuenzerMEGStephanie A. SzobotaMEG
Amy J. FreedCEEKanit NangkalaMEGWeechoon TeoECE
Frank E. GennariECEAndrea L. NellisCEERaymond T. ThngECE
Steven M. GoodeMEGPatrick L. OMalleyCHEJonathan P. VanT HofECE
Sriram C. GopalanECEYasutsugu ObaMEGMichael J. WallaceCHE
Roxanne K. GrebeyCEEKevin F. OBrienCEEMichael J. WalshECE
Kendra M. GromponeCEEKenn R. OldhamMEGJoshua D. WalstromECE
Morgan B. HaickMEGDavid A. OleszkiewicaECENawaporn WisitpongphanECE
Pratish R. HaladyECECharles T. OswaldECEMichael WongECE
Tejaswini P. HelbalkarECE
al'OT E&N'
BUYli'OHaitham Abu-Sbaih 
Nasser M. Abukhdeir 
Abhyudaya Agrawal
Robyn L. Harden 
Patrice R. Harduar 
Michael D. Hendricks
Vikas B. AhujaCHEJeffrey D. HemphillCHEJohn I. MurrayCEEGregory W. AlexanderSamuel S. Hong
Nik S. AzamECEBenjamin E. HentyECEKyle A. OppenheimECEMark I. AnboubaEric Huang
Dallas M. BakerECEJoseph C. HuangECEDavid E. OrmsbyECEColin A. AshePing-Szu S. Huang
Aaron K. BarkemaMEGDiego L. IglesiasECEAndrew B. OxnardMEGRyanth AtmadjaJames S. Johnston
Michael F. BlackhurstCEEMohd Z. IsmailECEYun Kay A. PauECERobert A. BarryMatthew D. Juhasz
Peter W. BoettcherECEWai KamECEAnne PetersCHERebecca M. BerngarttDavid Kogan
Chin Hau BoonCHEMark A. KimmelCHEThomas C. PraeselMEGAndrew D. BoyerAaron D. Krol
Tracy E. BurtonMEGAdam Z. KlatzkinECEBenjamin R. PuglieseECEDavid P. BurnsJason D. Lawrence
Rebecca A. CasslerCEE/EPPEric R. KochCHEDarius R. RadECETom M. ChenMichael W. Libby
Lin CheungCEEBengliang KohECEMahesh SaptharishiECEJike ChongLiam Lim
Kah Khen ChongCHEWesley M. KopackaCHEMartin SchlegelCHEBrian R. ColonnaMichael T. Lohmiller
Kun-Wei ChouCEEKristopher L. KriechbaumMEGCharles M. Schroeder, III CHEMichael B. DonohueGeorge F. Lu
Jason T. ChowECETham KriengchaiyaprukECEDaniel J. SidenMEGVanessa L. DornIrsal Mashhor
John W. CressmanECEAkiba J. LeismanCHEAaron N. SiegelECECynthia L. EchevarriaPeter J. Mavro
Thomas E. CurryCEE/EPPJeffrey T. LinwoodCHEHarmit SinghECEBrenden P. EppsLaura S. Miyakawa
Michael C. DaumECETze Bin LohECEAmy P. SokalskiCEESupapom ErjongmaneePimsiree Moongkhamklang
Kevin R. DixonECETan LuECEYoshiki ToriiCHECarl J. EvankovichGregory V. Nofi
Timothy 0. DrewsCHE/EPPAdam D. MadiganCHEShane N. TorsellECEFilipe P. FortesSara E. Nohejl
Li-Pin FanCEEBrandon J. McLeanECEWilliam R. TowcimakCHEAndrew J. FrancisParag R. Patel
Brett A. FarmeryCHEAdrienne M. MessengerCEEMargaret Y. WangECEKevin M. FrederickKevin J. Perry
Erika E. FleckensteinCHEChris T. MesserCHETimothy J. WarneckECEAdam L. FromAaron D. Politsky
Amit FleischerECERoland MeyerECERebecca J. WehrerMSEVincent A. GiarnellaJason S. Porter
Marian D. GoebesCEEJeremy J. MichalekMEGLeland W. WeissMEGFrancis C. GohTiffany A. Pourch
Charles D. HardenECEAndrew C. MihalECEKevin C. GotzeJohn A. Ramsey
Christopher J. GuerraDsu-Bei J. Yuen
Marco Rodriguez 
Melissa B. Rosen 
Maayan Roth 
Chad W. Rummel 
Temsiri Sapsaman 
Jonathan R. Schwanbeck 
Ting-Chih Shih 
Mark Sin 
Russell J. Snyder 
Denise L. Soh 
Albert C. Song 
Vishal G. Soni 
Choon Hon Tay 
Larry R. Traister 
Andrew G. Tsai 
Kirk E. Vance 
Alan P. Wagstaff 
Yang Wang 
Sy Bor Wang 
Shaonung B. Wei 
Chih-Chia Wen 
Alyssa A. Werthman 
Christopher J. White 
Adam C. Wierman 
Richard C. Yarnell 
Benjamin I. Ylvisaker 
Niti A. Yongvanich
the heinz schoolexperience
the Heinz School's Tenth Annual 
ring Visitation Program
Our two-day program is designed to introduce juniors and seniors to the graduate school, 
its faculty, students, staff and facilities. Wether youre considering the Heinz Schools Accel
erated Masters Program (AMP), the MS in Public Policy & Management, Master of Arts 
Management, Master of Information Systems, or just want to find out more about public 
policy, the Heinz School is the best place to be on February 27 & 28. We hope youll join us.
no later than february 16 
call 268.2165 or email sd1z@andrew.cmu.edu

---------------------------------------------------

FORM
Carnegie Mellon University2 February 1998
CMU lacks adequate 
guidance resources
Carnegie Mellons curriculum 
allows many students to concen
trate on their chosen career path 
as soon as they arrive on campus. 
But what about those students 
who are not sure of their future 
plans? They need help figuring 
out what their options are in a 
diverse, intense scholastic arena 
such as CMU. Unfortunately, 
these students are not given the 
appropriate formal guidance re
sources to help them chart their 
academic courses.
Guidance at CMU is not devel
oped enough. Certain colleges 
such as H&SS split their firstyear students among only two or 
three advisors. This system does 
not allow for the individual atten
tion that most undecided students 
need. If first-year students were 
given an individual faculty advi
sor in the field they felt would 
most likely become their major, 
this problem would be rectified. 
The students who are sure of their 
major would immediately have a 
resource in this faculty advisor, 
and the students who are unde
cided could make a more indi
vidual connection.
There is one drawback to ap
pointing faculty advisors to unde
cided students, however. Most 
faculty members know little about 
departments outside of their own. 
Then again, the same is true of 
the general guidance advisors. For 
example, undecided students who 
think they might want to become 
BHA majors have an extremely
Housing sets example 
through surveys
During the last two weeks, 
Housing Services has been work
ing to get student input through 
the Furniture Fair in Rangos Hall 
and the residence-hall-room-ofthe-future exhibit in the basement 
of Morewood Gardens. Housing 
should be commended for its ef
fort to solicit student opinion  
they have set an example that 
more University organizations 
should follow. The Furniture Fair 
gave students .a chance to make 
decisions about something that 
directly affects their living situa
tion, and if more campus service 
institutions would follow suit, stu
dents would have the opportu
nity to make a difference in their 
environment instead of complain
ing about it.
The objective of the Furniture 
Fair was to get students ideas 
about what kind of furniture 
should be used in future refur
bishing of Morewood Gardens and 
Hamerschlag House. The room 
exhibits showed sample room de
signs that will be found in the 
new dormitory to be located be
tween Morewood Gardens and 
Mudge House. Students at both 
the Fair and the Morewood room 
exhibits were given a comprehen
sive questionnaire which covered 
each presentation. Housing re
ceived feedback to make it easier 
for them to determine what stu
dents really want in a dorm room, 
and students got the chance to 
give opinions on living environdifficult time getting information 
on individual classes because nei
ther H&SS nor CFA guidance ad
visors know enough about the 
other colleges academic structure. 
The benefit of having individual 
faculty members as advisors is 
that they could take more time to 
help an undecided student break 
down communication barriers 
such as these. Plus, faculty see 
the University from a different 
perspective than general guidance 
advisors. They are involved on 
an academic level that can be 
beneficial for an undecided stu
dent trying to figure out their 
college career.
Additionally, the administration 
should institute some method of 
guidance evaluation similar to its 
course and faculty evaluation sys
tem. This would allow students to 
provide feedback on the quality of 
guidance they are receiving, 
thereby increasing the efficiency of 
the Universitys guidance system.
For some students, guidance at 
CMU has come to mean an advi
sor herding them and 25 of their 
classmates into a room to explain 
that the five-minute talk they are 
about to receive will be consid
ered their advising session be
fore registration. Instances such 
as these prove that the proper 
channels for guidance are not 
available for undecided students, 
and if these problems persist, 
undecided students will continue 
to have difficulty surviving in such 
an intense academic environment.
have
duel
James Mojonnier/Tartan Art Co-EditorPapal visit brings Cubans hope
Thibert
The Cuban people could use two things 
right now: hope and money. But given the 
current impoverished situation in Cuba
 with no end to the American embargo 
in sight  a sudden cash flow isnt likely. 
Itd be much easier to shoot for hope, even 
if hope isnt much more plentiful than 
money in Cuba, thanks again to the cur
rent oppressive conditions.
Generally, unless they have help from 
some external source, its difficult for 
people to feel hope when they have 
fewfreedoms andlittlefood. Forthousands of years, though, if not longer, 
religion has been this external source 
for people all over the world, and this 
is where Pope John Paul IPs recent 
visit to Cuba enters the picture.
The Cuban people have been un
able to utilize religion to maximize 
their hope because they are not al
lowed unrestricted practice and be
cause many have no grasp of the 
beliefs behind it. Current Cuban 
Catholics, along with Cuban Protes
tants and Santeras (followers of an 
African religion called Santeria that many 
follow in conjunction with Catholicism) have
Rather, that which the Popes visit repre
sented gave cause for hope that this un
derstanding can be achieved. It repre
sents a further softening of Fidel Castros 
atheistic stance, further in that Castro 
declared Cuba a secular (not atheistic) 
state in 1992, he met the Pope in the 
Vatican in 1996, and last year, he allowed 
open celebration of Christmas for the first 
time since 1969. Perhaps Castro is begin
ning to see that religion, and other forms 
of personal expression, are allowable, even 
in the midst of communism. Maybe he is 
realizing that no rule states that commu
nistic beliefs have to lead to atheism or to
Alex Smith/Tartan Junior Staff
suppression of individual rights.
Of course, there is evidence that Castro 
had great problems in the past with these is just looking to help himself. The papal
ments they would like to see 
implemented.
Since the purpose of Housing is 
to supply comfortable and effi
cient living quarters, this kind of 
student involvement is obviously 
necessary. But there are also other 
organizations on campus that 
could have gained useful infor
mation through student solicita
tion. For example, Dining Ser
vices could have asked for stu
dent ideas about which food ven
dors they wanted in the Univer
sity Center.
There is another side to seeking 
student input  lack of participa
tion. While the University made 
extensive efforts to gather stu
dent opinions during the search 
for the president, attendance at 
programs was sparse and inter
est in general was lackluster. If 
organizations such as Housing 
offer students the chance to make 
a difference in the campus com
munity, students should actively 
participate since there is no bet
ter way they can ensure that their 
voices are heard.
The Furniture Fair and room 
exhibit are perfect examples of 
two things most people feel are 
lacking on this campus: organiza
tions who pro-actively seek stu
dent opinion and students who 
take these organizations seri
ously. These do exist, but more 
effort is needed from both parties 
to ensure that the opinions of ev
eryone are considered.
two issues. Although Castro has lifted many 
restrictions as of late, the Cuban people are 
still not allowed to have religious proces
sions through the streets or to celebrate 
some religious holidays openly.
These problems have seemed to affect
visit has made him seem kinder and 
gentler, an image which he hopes will 
gain him European support, since Cuba 
is in dire need of aid, which is not forth
coming because of the United States 
embargo. Castro was also hoping for a
the Catholics most notably. Catholicism papal denunciation of that U.S. embargo,
is a religion that gains much of its 
strength from a complex hierarchy, a 
rich history, and meaningful ceremo
nies, and most Cuban Catholics have no 
idea who the Pope is or what the ceremo
nies represent. They also have a very 
limited knowledge of the Bible.
Of course, the Popes presence alone did 
not automatically allow the Cubans to 
achieve a full religious understanding.
in the hopes that it might sway the U.S. 
and provide a further spur for world aid. 
Castro got his denunciation, but the 
U.S. has refused to back down.
However, even though Castro may 
have had his agenda, we cant ignore the 
fact that the Pope had an agenda of his 
own: to restore freedoms and rights to 
the Cuban Church and to the oppressed 
people of Cuba, most of whom have
known nothing but the almost total gov
ernment control of Castros regime. The 
Pope not only promotes religious free
dom, but also the opportunity to enjoy 
fundamental human rights such 
freedom itself.
Neither of these agendas are despi
cable. We cant condemn the Pope for 
wanting people to know freedom and have 
basic rights; and Castro merely wants his 
country, and his people, to be better off. 
Who can deny him this? Should the Cu
ban people really have to suffer just be
cause the United States has a problem 
with their leader?
The Pope obviously doesnt think 
so, as evidenced by his denunciation 
of the embargo. Additionally, he has 
consistently been one of 
communisms strongest enemies and 
definitely hates Castros regime. Yet 
this did not stop him or Catholic 
organizations ..from entering Cuba 
so that they could help the people 
and spread to them messages that 
they desperately need to hear, i 
well as food and medicinal aid that 
the United States has withheld.
The Church and Pope John Paul 
II are diligently trying to instill 
hope in the Cuban people. Unfortu
nately, many Cuban Catholic s simply 
dont have enough of a grasp on their 
religion to use its saving powers to the 
fullest extent. We can only hope that the 
Popes visit will inspire them to learn 
more about their faith, and perhaps even 
inspire them to question their current 
leadership. Castro has already begun to 
buckle slightly on religious issues, and 
whos to say he wouldnt buckle in other 
areas if the Cuban people began to ques
tion him about their rights? The Popes 
visit stretches beyond mere religion; it 
may be a way to initiate a galvanization 
of the people and a change in the oppres
sion of Castros communist state.
Jeff Thibert is a freshman in the Uni
versity Choice program. He welcomes all 
responsible replies to his column.Divisions lead to mental atrophy
Bharat Bhat
Obviously, people in dif
ferent fields of study do not 
think about the same things 
during the day. That is, on 
Monday, the kind of things 
an engineer must deal with 
differs significantly from 
what an artist worries about. 
If this dichotomy is put into 
action for some period of 
time, then the person in one 
field might close his mind 
off to the way a person in 
another field thinks  the 
separation, of course, is pro
portional to the differences 
in brain processes called for 
by the two fields in question.
Now, if someone persists 
in one way of thinking, other 
thinking processes must go 
ignored  and thus may cor
rode. Also, in this time, cer
tain losses in mental capac
ity may take place. These
lost capacities, which appear 
useless at the moment, may 
need to be called into action 
later, at which time, if they 
have been successfully de
stroyed by present ignorance, 
it will be more difficult to 
be open-minded.
At our school, many people 
segregate themselves into 
groups based on their ma
jors. And, although this phe
nomenon can be attributed 
to professors giving out too 
much homework, there are 
also many people who indulge 
themselves in their field be
cause they are frightened to 
subject their egos to unfamil
iar modes of thought. But, 
many times, when you try 
out something new, you cant 
believe that you moved along 
without it.
Academics, through its 
rigid divisions between sub
jects and its figurative 
wreath-giving to those who 
are skillful at a particular 
subject, implants fear into
those who want to learn for the 
sake of learning. Academics 
stress performance  not life 
as it is. Since many people be
come preoccupied with perfor
mance, they go through school 
thinking that they are learning 
what they want to learn, but 
they do not realize that there 
are other ways of thinking 
which, if brought into their lives, 
might add salsa to their other
wise bland reality.
To make peoples existences 
more worthwhile, I propose a 
new class at this school. The 
setting will be a tent on the Cut. 
Temperature constraints must 
be accounted for. But, compared 
to the stubbornness of adminis
trators in regard to new ideas, 
paying for climate control cant 
be seen as the true problem. The 
class description:
Six units. Pass/Fail: Good 
attendence = pass, shabby 
attendence = fail. One hour, two 
days a week. No prerequisites.
On the first day of each week, 
a lecturer (preferably an en
thusiastic grad student) will 
speak on fiction, math, con
temporary art, new ideas in 
physics, poetry, computer sci
ence, music, et cetera. On the 
day of class, the students will 
do small projects, if applicable, 
or have discussion sessions in 
seminar format. If this isnt 
possible for some reason, it 
will become an exercise and 
nature appreciation class, con
sisting of a walk or run 
through Schenley Park.
The diversity of the lecture 
subjects will allow people fa
miliar with one area to ex
plain complexities to someone 
in another field, who thinks in 
another way. Hopefully, some
thing thought difficult and un
approachable can lead the way 
to new forms of expression.
Well, why are you sitting 
there eating dried banana 
chips and watching stale tele
vision? Petition.
Bharat Bhat is a sophomore 
in ECE and philosophy.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  2 February 19987
Uninformed voting hinders citizens
Lorelei Laird
As members of the 18-24 year-old age 
group, college students are inundated with 
propaganda urging us to exercise our right 
to vote. Rock The Vote, they say  you have 
a voice, so use it, dude! Would-be presi
dents make appearances on MTV and in 
Rolling Stone magazine; rock stars make 
benefit albums and have voter registration 
tables at their concerts. The message theyre 
attempting to put forth has all the subtlety 
of Beavis and Butt-head: Voting is cool. I 
agree. There are people out there who would 
love to have the chance to participate in a 
government that we Americans take for 
granted. However, it seems like most people 
following this youth voting movement are 
jumping on the voter bandwagon without a 
dear idea of their exact purpose in voting.
The original framers of the Constitution 
didnt establish a democracy as we know it. 
Their qualifications for what constituted a 
voting citizen were much more limited than 
todays; to be eligible to vote, you had to be a 
citizen, a free man, a landowner, and over 
the age of 21. (Or, to put it another way, an 
old, rich, white guy.) The reason why they 
did this was pretty straightforward: They 
didnt trust boys under 21 to be mature
enough, women to be interested and ana
lytical enough, and poor people to be edu
cated and intelligent enough to make the 
kind of knowledgeable judgment they 
wanted people to make in 
their new country. (Slaves 
werent even considered, 
except when it came time 
to divide up House seats.)
Women and boys aside, 
theres something of value 
to be learned from all this:
They didnt trust the 
masses, because the 
masses presumably didnt 
know or care much about 
their rather high-brow 
ideas of democracy. The 
framers didnt expect them 
to be able to make good 
electoral choices; limiting 
the voting population as 
they did, they were assured 
that most of the electorate 
would be interested and 
responsible voters.
Two hundred years and
such a big electorate, however, not every
body is guaranteed to be interested, edu
cated, and informed enough to vote.
Still, its a very serious matter. Every 
voter has the responsibil
ity to make sure he or she is 
well-informed before 
punching that little card. 
This should be all the more 
valuable for those of us who 
were historically disenfran
chised  now that we have 
this privilege, shouldnt we 
use it responsibly, if only to 
prove that we can? All of 
the clamor about making 
your voice heard by voting 
seems to blatantly disre
gard all of that if its not 
accompanied by an encour
agement to develop politi
cal opinions of any sort. And 
sadly, it rarely is.
Why should people not 
take their duties as voters 
just as seriously? After all, 
theyve got a personal in
Mark Adato/Tartan Art Co-Editor
several amendments later, we have a much terest in it  theyre choosing someone to 
bigger pool ofvoters, and society has changed whom to give power over their lives, 
a lot. This is for the better, of course  Yet many people in this country, it 
theres nothing in the world that makes seems, vote without having a clear under
women and people of color any less qualified standing of why theyre voting other than 
to have a voice in their government. With that they think they ought to. The less
thoughtful of our peers, urged on by 
movements aimed at getting youth into 
the polls, probably find themselves stand
ing in a little box in someones garage, 
thinking, Oh jeez, whats the name of the 
guy with the blue tie again? Is he the 
same one that said he supported school 
vouchers? Clearly,, when it comes down 
to Election Day, you simply cant make 
an intelligent decision without a thor
ough understanding of the issues sur
rounding the election. If no intelligent 
decisions are made, it stands to reason 
that the best governments we can get are 
not being elected. If you have no opinion, 
stand back and let those who have 
opinions vote; theyre likely to make a 
better decision.
I know college life can often seem like a 
realm unto itself, a giant petri dish cut off 
from the outside world. But there are 
plenty of ways to get news for cheap or 
even free without leaving campus. So do 
yourself a favor and either get politically 
informed or just dont vote. Sure, voting is 
trendy, but if everyone else had oral sex 
with the President, would you?
Lorelei Laird is a two-year-old tabbystriped kitty-cat whose owner can no longer 
keep her due to a change of residency. Free 
to good home. For more information email 
llaird+@andrew.cmu.edu.
UC food court turns stomachs
Bhumika Muchhala
Long lines growl noisily at my 
friend and I as we arrive up
stairs. I cannot decide between 
eating healthily at Ali Baba or 
sipping the grease of Papa Js. I 
contemplate, then decide Im hun
gry enough for grease today.
We sit down at the only empty 
table, which faces the workout 
rooms and is strewn with smeared 
trays and Snapple bottles no one 
bothered to throw away. I take a 
bite out of my plain cheese pizza. 
The moist cheese and bread 
tumble in my mouth.
My friend and I converse. As 
my friend talks, I notice how she 
casually looks at the people work
ing out on the machines. I know 
that she does this unconsciously, 
just as I do, and just as many 
others do as they sit and eat all 
around us. I glance at the view to 
my right: a female of already per
fect proportions pants and heaves 
on a Lifecycle. Strokes of bright 
pink energy garnish her counte
nance. Motivation is her name.
Hook back at my pizza and 
proceed to digest the remaining 
clumps of mozzarella lurking in 
front of me. I am now super-conscious of every morsel of excess 
flesh on my body.
I dont feel like finishing this, 
I say, as people with trays and 
people with gym bags walk 
past us.
I know, replies my friend. As 
we get up and put on our jackets, 
my eye catches a young male with 
thick glasses staring at the fe
male on the Lifecycle. Her tiny 
tanktop and her stretchy spandex 
reveal the flex of her thigh 
muscles, and the male proceeds
to bite into his Si Senor beef 
burrito with a complacent smile. 
The bad techno in the aerobics 
room matches my urgency to get 
out of there.
As we walk past the dollops of 
flesh that have sunk into the fa
mous black chairs of Kirr Com
mons, my friend reveals her views 
with honesty: This is wrong. Its 
just sick that we eat around people 
who are working out.... Its as if 
we transfer the disturbing real
ity into our unconscious so that it 
almost becomes natural to eat 
in the midst of racquetball 
and Lifecycles.
Hmm..., I reply.
It is wrong. And it is unnatu
ral. The repulsion results from 
the distasteful fusion of the getting-rid-of-the-fat-on-your-body 
area with the digesting-the-foodthat-causes-the-fat-on-yourbody area.
As a universal rule, the cafete
ria and the gym do not go to
gether. For the sake of general 
courtesy, if for nothing else, a 
certain amount of distance should 
be maintained between the people 
with growling stomachs and the 
people with sweatpants and hal
ter tops on.
A student provides an interest
ing viewpoint: The fact that the 
exercise facilities are located so 
close to the various eateries and 
their seating creates a fishbowl 
atmosphere for those working out 
and a forced voyeurism environ
ment for those eating.
The juxtaposition of healthy 
and unhealthy activities can be a 
cause for concern among a lot of 
people. Would you feel comfort
able sucking down an O burger 
while, nearby, someone whos 
obviously in better shape (and 
more driven) than you has 
been working out for the entire
time? said another student 
about the UC.
The problem is more than ob
vious. But what can be done 
about this?
The following suggestions 
have been made: Opaque 
glasses should be put up in the 
gym rooms. Seeing how rich this 
school is, opaque glasses is the 
least that they should do for 
the psychological well-being of 
their students, and Replace 
the glass of the gym rooms 
with tinted glass that will pre
vent the gorgers from seeing 
the fitness fans.
Everyone knows that the food 
courts vibe is a bit awkward, to 
say the very least. Even at The 
O, the same offensive juxtapo
sition exists, with the swimming 
pool replacing the gyms.
Something that I have always 
wondered about is, why, when 
the University Center seems so 
big, are there so many students 
scrambling for a place to sit and 
eat during lunch hours? Con
sider finding other places to put 
more chairs for those eating up
stairs; maybe use some of the 
unused space on the second floor 
of the UC, suggests a student.
Although this saga continues 
on a daily basis, hopefully, if we 
keep our fingers crossed, some
day something may be done to 
facilitate the ease of our 
dining experiences in the Uni
versity Center.
Bhumika Muchhala is a 
sophomore English major who 
often wanders aimlessly through 
the expansive space of the Uni
versity Center, wondering how 
she can tear it apart. She thanks 
the following people: Daniel 
Schmidt, Erica Hanna, and 
Christopher Hardouin.
Students need sex
Dave Liber
In keeping with the national 
headlines for this week, I have 
decided to address an issue 
which is timely and pressing to 
our nation and the very! whole of 
humanity  namely, sex. Yes, 
sex, that act of procreation which 
happens far too infrequently on 
the CMU campus.
I do not mean to sound like a 
pervert or an over-sexed maniac, 
but lets face it: Many people 
here at CMU do not think about 
sex enough, and some of us have 
to pick up the slack. I want to 
address the issue of CMU as a 
social community.
Yes, there is always plenty to 
do on campus between our orga
nizations and our clubs. But these 
organizations and clubs fail to 
provide some form of mischie
vous and possibly degenerative 
outlet for many CMU students. 
We are all human, and we all 
need to act a little irresponsibly 
for our own psychological health. 
Therefore, while volunteering for 
Habitat for Humanity is an ex
tremely worthwhile cause that is 
fulfilling in many ways, it fails to 
fulfill the natural human craving 
for destructive behaviors.
In order to rectify this lack of 
revoltamong CMU students, I 
offer a few suggestions. The first 
is a public offering of $100 to the 
first person who can provide me 
with proof of committing some 
type of sexual act while in Presi
dent Cohons office (not with 
President Cohon, though; as I 
have too much respect for him 
and I am not Ken Starr). By 
offering this reward, as small as
it may be, I hope to provoke 
students to act in slightly irre
sponsible fashions. Please do 
not break any laws while doing 
this, though.
While President Cohons of
fice might be a cool place to have 
sex (I have been there once, and 
it has a nice leather couch for 
shnooking), I would also sug
gest that CMU students be cre
ative. Imagine my joy if I were 
to find people being caught by 
Campus Police having sex in 
public locations. The UC for the 
exhibitionists, CFA for the ro
mantics, Hunt Library for those 
who read too many Playboys, 
and the unfinished part of Rob
erts Hall of Engineering for 
those who want a porno-movie 
experience. This campus is large 
enough to yield itself to the 
minds of all of us. Lets be cre
ative here, people.
I suggest that if people are to 
start going out and having 
more sex that they do it with 
someone they love.
So, since people need some
one they love to have sex with, 
we must have more dating here 
at CMU. Please wake up! To 
use one of my favorite quotes, 
Life is a banquet and most 
poor suckers are starving to 
death.  Auntie Maine. So let 
us not starve here; let us feast 
on the banquet of life. Let us 
move forward and create anew 
reputation for CMU  one of a 
school where the students work 
hard and play hard. Let us 
have a Slouching Towards 
Gomorrah weekend of pure 
irresponsibility and fun.
Dave Liber is a freshman in 
H&SS. He welcomes all respon
sible replies to his column.
Anna Fortin/Tartan Photo Staff
A balanced nutritional 
breakfast will transform you 
into a bundle of wholesome 
energy. We want to make 
sure youre eating right, so 
we thought wed ask you: 
Whats your favorite 
breakfast cereal?
Compiled by 
Bharat Bhat & Anna Fortin
Eric Alarcon 
Sophomore
Industrial Management
Honey Comb, honey
Jamie Zeigler
Junior
English
Cracklin Oat Bran
Valmiki Rao
Junior
ECE
Golden Grahams
Sirisha Reddy
Freshman
H&SS
Peanut Butter Capn Crunch
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mollons Student Newspaper 
Since 1906
Editor-in-Chief.... Becky A. Cowser
Managing Editor..............Ena Khan
Business Manager... Norman Mok
News Editor.................Ellen Beldner
Forum Editor.........Rebecca Fribush
Sports Co-Editors......Brian Smith,
Nathan Steinwald
Features Editor.........Kevin Babbitt
Diversions Editor............Anne Ray
Calendar Editor.....Kevin AuYoung
Dossier Literary Editors..........Lilian
Lee, Marshall Warfield
Art Co-Editors...........Mark Adato,
James Mojonnier
Photo Editor...........Anthony Chao
Production Manager..William Holtz
Advertising Manager.....Kevin Fine
Systems Manager.... Craig Soules 
Copy Manager..Helena Mcgahagan 
Asst. News Editor.. Ryan Schilling
Asst. Forum Editor............Vy Ty Mai
Asst. Production Manager.....Blake
Engel
Darkroom Mgr.......................Lisette
Miller-Dixon
Personnel Manager.. Seth Mandel
Contributing Editors 
Daniel Arp, Paul Boothe, Chris 
Cannon, Ryan Donovan, Jennifer 
Garcia de Osuna, Stephen Hsu, 
Kenneth Kraemer, 1-Ping Li, Amit 
Sheth, Sharmila Venkatasubban
Senior Staff 
Gil Alterovitz, Jessica Strelitz, 
Susan Watson
Staffwriters 
Neema Avashia, Max Chittister, Jus
tin Cina, MattCuccaro, Dave Elman, 
Sheila Flanagan, Andrew Francis, 
Charles Fryman, Rhonda Gillespie, 
Michelle Han, Elizabeth Irvine, 
Nathan Los, Carrie Jones-McGuire, 
Ryan Kellogg, WladimirLabeikovsky, 
Emily Landes, Alex Lewin, Tom Lianza, 
David Liber, Anand Marathe, Greg 
Marcks, Maureen McGranaghan, 
Trevor Meyerowitz, Susan Murray, 
Rob Punkunus, Stacey Reed, Nia 
Rodgers, Jaya Saxena, Palak Shah, 
Scott Shell, Reena Singhal,Jeff 
Thibert, Ryan Willhite
Art
Neil Babra, Tony Yu,
Comics
Akira Hasegawa, Hiromi Hasegaawa, 
Dave Wingrove, Mike Yeh
Photo
Anna Fortin, Stacey Tetzlaff, Mich
elle Ungerer
Darkroom 
Ava Bai, Amy Crisostomo, Maria 
Gimenez, Daniel Klein, Diana Ruth
erford, Alev Toker, Erica Yamada
Production 
Derek Greentree, Filipe Fortes, Maria 
Manautou, Tammy Manski, Andrea 
Okerholm, Michael Pudup, Diana 
Rutherford, Rimas Svarcas
Copy
Herine Coetzee, Christopher 
Dornfeld, David Elman, Dianne 
Gigler, Lorelei Laird, Matthew 
McHenry, Jennifer Terry, Andrew 
Thompson, Joanne Wei
Business 
Kevin Fine, Michael Y. Kan, Na Y 
Lee, Norman Mok, Nikhil Shah, 
Palak Shah, Vikas Sood, Toshi 
Takano, Irene Tan
Junior Staff 
Douglas Beeferman, Luke Brindle, 
Brendan Bosworth, David Bazelon, 
Bharat Bhat, Hillary Carey, Crawford, 
Susie Cribbs, Elizabeth Currid, Ian 
Downey, Cormac Eubanks, Andrew 
Holopeter, Lorelei Laird, John Lee, 
Joshua Merry, Bhumika Muchhala, 
Art Oberoi, Ping Pan, Peter Patterson, 
Paulette Poulle, Mary Tremonte
The Tartan is the student newspaper of 
Carnegie Mellon University. It is a weekly 
newspaperpublished by students during 
the fall and spring semesters, at no 
cost to members of the University 
community. It is printed by. Western 
Pennsylvania Printing, Inc. Subscriptions 
are available for the semester or 
academicyear.The editorials appearing 
at the beginning of the opinion section 
are the official opinion of The Tartan 
editorial board. Columns and political 
cartoons are the opinions of individual 
creators. The Tartan reserves the right 
to reject or condense any column or 
political cartoon. Letters to the Editor 
are opinions of authors who are usually, 
but not necessarily, members of the 
University community. A letter intended 
for publication must be signed and 
include the writer's address and phone 
number for verification. Names may be 
withheld upon request. The Tartan 
requests that letters be no longer than 
500 words. The Tartan reserves the 
right to condense or reject any letter. 
Copyright  1997 by The Tartan. The 
Tartan editorial board reserves the right 
to withhold from publication any copy it 
deems unfit for publication. Office: 
University Center Room 314 Phone: 
412/268-2111
Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/ 
Carnegie Mellon University/Pittsburgh, PA 
15213-3890
Email: tartan@andrew.cmu.edu 
Funded in part by your Activities Fee. All 
rights reserved. Library of Congress ISSN 
#: 0890-3107. The Tartan is 
a member of the Associated 
Press.

---------------------------------------------------

h. john heinz Mi 
school of public policy & management
Get the Word Out!
\oct Not. . Dec- fon.
\iarrMay
http://www.cmu.edu/enrollment/sa/events.html
Publicize your event and plan 
future events by viewing the 
Carnegie Mellon Events Calendar 
on the web. You can add your 
event through the web, send mail 
to <Event Pub>, or call Student 
Activities at 268-8704.
UC Information Center 268-2107
Let us help you! We need your 
event details in order to help you 
publicize it. Please contact : 
Audrey Russo, Information Center 
...........Manager, at 268-2110.___ ^
OTlTIJ
TRY 
TH IN-SATION
PITT/OAKLAND/SHADYSIDE/BLOOMFIELD
7 O CCC Sun. " Thurs., 11 a.m. - 2 a.m. O # " Zr Fri. & Sat., 11 a.m. - 3 a.m.
TH I N-SATION 
ONE TOPPING 
14 " LARGE PIZZA
$6.99.
Limited Time Offer. No coupon necessary.
accelerated masters 
ToHmSenimls
The Heinz School at Carnegie Mellon provides an opportunity for quali
fied Carnegie Mellon undergraduates to work toward a masters de
gree while completing their undergraduate programs. The Heinz 
Schools Accelerated Master Program (AMP) will allow you to com
plete both your undergraduate degree and graduate degree in just 
five years or less!
Want to learn more about this exciting opportunity? 
Come to an information session on the Heinz Schools 
Accelerated Masters Program and start your masters 
degree now! Programs available in Management Infor
mation Systems, Arts Management, Public Policy, and
accelerated masters program information session
Wednesday,february I I, 1998 : 12.30 - 2.00 p.m.
university center, rangos 1
Lunch will be provided.
RSVP by February 6 to x8 2165 
or sd Iz (5) andrew
COMPLIMENTARY PASSES
EXCLUSIVELY FOR AMERICAN EXPRESS CARDMEMBERS.
WHEN AND WHERE.
February 4, 7:30 pin 
Beehive Coffee House
WHAT.
Cardmembers get two compli
mentary passes to a preview 
screening of New Line Cinemas 
new film The Wedding Singer.
HOW.
Just bring the American Express 
Card or Optima* Card and your 
student ID to the location listed 
below to pick up your passes.
SPECIAL OFFER.
Receive 2 complimentary passes 
when you apply for the American 
Express-or Optima1 Card (at the 
location listed below).
MORE TO COME.
The Wedding Singer is one in a 
series of three major motion 
pictures to be previewed on your 
campus this year, compliments of 
American Express
adam sandier drew barrymore
hes gonna party like its 1985!
I '\weddingsinger
lumi aulii tinnii i liti Sppo in dii ..........Ri m mi ninnoli m ini rt sr .
"S uhi immilli smini mini miiiiiii "kiwi imi ih hi -aiMii 
animimi INFOO sminuii intimi "mirai iraiifflii '"insilisi
n: ,1  ||||| 1||||| Wm.O&Mml
lCK U EiU' TlCK&TO &'&S
University Center 
February 2-4
rpMBk:*
AFIAmencon Film hutitvtv
Entertainment
Cards
1997 American Express Travel Related Services Company. Inc

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  2 February 1998
UAA Basketball Standings
as of January 20, 1998
Mens Basketball
TeamUAA RecodPet.Overall
Chicago4-01.00013-1
Emory3-1.75010-4
Johns Hopkins6-2.66710-4
NYU4-3.5718-5
CWRU3-3.5006-7
Washington2-2.5005-9
Rochester2-4.3337-7
Carnegie Mellon2-4.3337-9
Brandeis0-7.0002-10
Womens Basketball
Team UAA Recod
Washington
Johns Hopkins
Emory
NYU
CWRU
Chicago
Brandeis
Carnegie Mellon
Rochester
4-0 
7-1 
3-1
5-2 
3-3
1-3
2-5 
1-5 
0-6
Pet.
1.000
.875
.750
.600
.714
.500
.250
.286
.167
Overall
13-1
12-2
8-2
10-3
5-8
6-9 
8-6 
5-6 
3-11
Women continue losing streak
By PAUL BOOTHE
Tartan Contributing Editor
The womens basketball 
team rallied hard but fell to 
UAA opponent New York Uni
versity, extending their los
ing streak to four straight 
games. The Tartans hosted the 
NYU Violets, the reigning Di
vision III national champions, 
on January 25, and were 
handed a 36-55 loss.
NYUs a really nice team, 
said head coach Geri Seidl. 
[They are] really quick, 
very athletic.
The Tartans attempted to 
play a slower-paced half-court 
style to counter NYUs strong 
running offensive. However, 
the Violets ran the scoreboard 
to an 18-38 lead, sending the 
Tartans to the locker room at 
the end of the first half facing 
a 20-point deficit. CMU played 
stronger in the second half, 
outscoring the NYU squad by 
one point, but was unable to 
undo the damage of the first 
half. Sophomore center 
Samantha Majernik led the 
Tartans with eight points.
We were excited we could 
only hold them to 55 points, 
said Seidl. The Tartans also 
managed to slow down NYUs 
top scorer, guard Marsha 
Harris, by holding her to 13
points  six less than her 
average. Despite these victo
ries, the Tartans sunk only 
14 of their 44 field goal at
tempts and went one for eight 
outside the perimeter.
Our shooting percentage 
wasnt strong enough, said 
Seidl. The Tartans were very 
strong at the free-throw line, 
shooting seven of 10  mark
edly better than their 57 per
cent average. The Tartans 
are currently 1-5 in the UAA 
and 6-9 overall.
Turnovers had a big im
pact on the game  CMU 
forced 23 NYU turnovers, 
but the Tartans also had 33 
turnovers of their own. Our 
biggest problem was taking 
care of the basketball, said 
Seidl. [Its] hard to shoot 
when you dont have the ball 
in your hands.
Carnegie Mellon is also com
ing off a weekend road trip 
against UAA foes University 
of Chicago last Friday and 
Washington University in St. 
Louis last Sunday. .The team 
looked forward to the match
up against Chicago, as they 
play a very similar style of 
basketball as the Tartans. The 
Chicago Maroons like to shoot 
from the top of the key and 
capitalize on rebound oppor
tunities, so the team knows
Brian Smith/Tartan Sports Co-Editor 
Hillary Harris takes the game into her own hands.
that they will have to work on York University on Friday
their box-out under the hoop to 
control rebounds and put heavy 
pressure on their shooters.
CMU will have their hands full 
against the Washington Bears, 
who currently lead the confer
ence. [Washington] is a very welloiled machine, said Seidl.
The Tartans next travel to 
face UAA opponents New
and Brandeis University 
on Sunday. When CMU 
last faced NYU, the Tar
tans lost 36-55, and when 
they last hosted Brandeis 
the Tartans were edged out 
53-55. In eluding these 
games, five of the Tartans 
next six games are against 
UAA opponents.
Intramurals
February^?,^998 O
Administration
Intramural Director
Mike Mastroianni X8-2214 
Asst. Intramural Director
Mike Grzywinski xS-2214 
Intramural Secretary
Amy Kiryk x8-2053 
Intramural President
Jeff Jesensky X2-2830 
Women's President
Katie Gallagher X2-3363
Important Dates
Feb. 3 IM Board Meeting at 
11:15am in Gym Conference Room 
Feb. 3 Floor Hockey Rules Meeting 
4:30pm
Feb. 4 Floor Hockey begins 
Feb. 5 Water Basketball Rosters 
due by 4:30pm in the IM Office
Sports In Season
Basketball: The 1998 Road to 
Skibo began Monday, January 26. 
Games are under way at the Univer
sity Center and Skibo Gym on 
Monday through Thursday evenings 
and Sunday afternoon. Please stay 
out of Main Gym while varsity 
practice is going on.
Pinochle: Rosters were due in the 
IM Office by 4:30 pm on January 
29. Team size is between two and 
four players. Schedules will be 
available at the IM Office on Tues
day after 12 noon.
Floor Hockey: The rules meeting will 
be held tomorrow, February 3 at 
4:30 pm in the Small Gym. All 
teams must have a representative 
at this meeting to discuss the 
changes In the rules for this year. 
Games will be played on Monday 
through Thursday evenings in the 
new hockey arena in the gym. 
Please stay out of arena until 
varsity track finishes practice.
Other IM News
-The 1997-98 Backgammon cham
pions are the SAE Double Six team.
-The revision of the Football rules 
for conversion to Flag from Touch 
will begin at the IM Board meeting 
on Tuesday. Any interested people 
may attend to voice their opinion.
-All basketball games scheduled for 
Thursday, February 5 originally 
scheduled for the University Center 
courts will be moved to the Main 
Gym due to the H&SS Job Fair.
-All Sports Update- 1st PiKA 2267, 
2nd SAE 2192, 3rd 2150 Beta, 4th 
2050 Todds Team
Past glories of Winter Games 
provide insight to the future
OLYMPICS, from page 12
opposition  they were actually held 
despite the protest of Scandinavia, who 
feared the games would compete with 
their own Nordic Games.
The first International Winter Sports 
Week took place from January 24 to 
February 5, 1924 in Chamonix MontBlanc, France. A modest 258 athletes 
from 16 countries competed in 14 differ
ent events. Three women participated - 
as compared to the nearly 1000 set to 
compete in Nagano. Norway led the 
medal count in 1924 with a total of 17.
While many things have changed, 
even more have remained the same. 
Skiing, speed skating, and the bobsled 
were among the first main events, and 
Canada took the gold in hockey, 
outscoring their opponents 110-3 in 
just five games.
The success of this trial was immedi
ate and long-lasting. Two years later 
the International Winter Sports Week 
was officially and retroactively named 
the Winter Olympics. It was deter
mined that the winter games would 
take place every four years as a lead-in 
to the summer competition. This tradi
tion lasted until 1994 when the winter 
games began running two years after 
their summer counterparts in an at
tempt to stagger the Olympic Games.
From Norwegian speed skater Knut 
Johannesens record setting 1960 games 
to the 1980 USA Hockey gold medal, the 
winter games have a rich and estab
lished history of incredible athletic per
formances. This years chapter in Olym
pic history hopes to add to that tradi
tion with more athletes, more sports, 
more countries, and more events than 
ever before. America and the world will 
tune in to witness athletes like Ameri
can figure skaters Tara Lipinski, 
Michelle Kwan, and Nicole Bobek battle 
for the gold. The 1998 Olympics will also 
be the debut year of events like 
snowboarding and curling. Hockey is 
expected to take center stage for much of 
the games, as National Hockey League 
players will compete for the first time in 
history. Names like Gretzky, Jagr, and 
Hasek will certainly capture the atten
tion of hockey fans around the globe and 
may have a profound effect on the NHL 
and ice hockey in general.
Will the international popularity of 
this sport explode due to the NHL play
ers? Will it have the same effect as the 
original Dream Team did for basket
ball? How will flamboyant Italian down
hill skier Alberto Tomba fare in his 
final Olympic games? Who will step up 
in the absence of the competition and 
controversy of Nancy Kerrigan and 
Tonya Harding and the brilliance of 
Oksana Baiul to grab the gold in 
womens figure skating?
As the answers to these and other 
questions unfold over the span of the 
games, the remembrance of the humble 
beginnings of the event provides addi
tional appreciation for the unification, 
competition, and entertainment fea
tured in this worldwide spectacle. The 
Games of the XVIII Winter Olympiad 
will bring the world together for the 
largest and most comprehensive win
ter sports festival to date.
Tartan swim team enters UAA finals riding on crest of victory
SWIMMING, from page 12
year. At the beginning of the meet, 
Belowitch thanked all the seniors and 
wished them good luck. He empha
sized that the team as a whole has 
improved a great deal over the sea
son, both physically and mentally. 
Throughout the season, we try to
"This meet was a great way 
to finish the season but we 
have a long way to go before 
the UAA championships. 
 Captian Mike Foster
build up confidence. Not just physi
cally, because both the men and 
women had had that, but as team. I 
try to create an environment, and then 
it is up to the swimmers to improve 
themselves as much as possible. The 
coach was very positive about both 
the team as a whole and the swimmers
individually. We have a difficult sched
ule-all the teams we swim against are 
competitive, but you must rise to the 
level of the competition. Thats how you 
become better.
After the strong victory, senior and 
mens team captain Mike Foster said, 
We had an excellent year; this 
meet was a great way to 
finish the season, but we 
have a long way to go before 
the UAA championships. 
The Carnegie Mellon 
swim team will take two 
weeks off before diving back 
into action February 19- 21. 
CMU will serve as the site 
of the UAA Championships 
this year, marking the first 
time in history the school 
has held the event. Over 
200 swimmers will participate in the 
four day event. The Championships will 
showcase the two year old Uni verity 
Center pool. Belowich expects that the 
pool record board will once again be 
rewritten; capping a season that has 
wittnessed a multitude of new records 
set every meet.
Phenoms should attend 
college before going pro
The Alley-Oop
by Chris Cannon
Maybe hes taking a cue from the 
Toronto Raptors Tracey McGrady, 
his teammate last year at Mt. Zion 
Academy, in Durham, N.C. What
ever his motivations, Hightower has 
the skills to join Bryant as the only 
guards to successfully jump to the 
NBA without playing college ball. I 
know this because I saw him play.
The lefty has a soft shot with range, 
plays defense straight up and with 
hustle, and (best of all) poise. Play
ing against smaller teams in a De
cember Las Vegas tournament, he 
was Mt. Zions key to breaking op
posing presses. Howre his hops? On 
one fast break, the man did a reverse 
5 his
When Kevin Garnett signed a nineyear, $121 million dollar contract ex
tension with the Minnesota 
Timberwolves the past summer, it 
seemed the first words out of the 21-
year-olds mouth were Its not about jam from a standing jump. Hows 
the money. Maybe a poor choice of handle? On a wing once, it took him 
words, but I think Kevin G was talk- about a half second to make a deing about respect. The dollar amount fender look plain silly; dribbling becemented Garnetts place as the tween his
man on his team. But as challenging legs, reversing the motion, and reas jumping straight from the high peating the whole motion again beschool to the NBA might seem, if G- fore pulling up to hit a baseline 
man wanted some respect, he jumper. Hightower isnt in a
probably shouldve gone to col
lege. More on that later.
This Wednesday is 
whats known in the foot- ^
ball world as Signing 
Day. Thats when foot
ball prep players 
across the nation 
can first put pen to 
paper and sign 
their soul to play 
for a University.
With football 
signings nearly 
complete, basket
ball players are the 
next big blip on the re
cruiting horizon.
But with the new 
threat of teenagers 
jumping to the NBA, 
basketball signing kick 
the hype-machine into 
an extra gear. Four 
high-schoolers 
have been se
lected in the last 
three drafts and 
as many as three could test the waters 
this year. The first is a 6*7 manchild 
Korleone Young who, by all accounts, 
is a force at power forward. Second (in 
order of talent) is Rashard Lewis: 610 
and with a sweet touch on his shot. 
Whos the third? If you know your 
hoops, 68 Stromile Swift comes to 
mind, but hes committed to LSU. For
ward A1 Harrington (68) also wants a 
degree (or part of one).
The third is 66 guard Corey
class of his own, but it sure 
doesnt take long to call role. 
But the point is that 
thats not the point.
It cant be the 
money. Drafter 13th in 
1996, Bryant has a 
three year $3.5 mil
lion contract. A top 
three pick makes 
three times that 
over the same pe J riod. If a player 
goes to college and 
improves his game to 
make him a top pick, 
hell make back what 
he would have made 
by skipping school.
Speaking of money, 
back to Garnett. If the 
man wants respect, 
what better way than 
to win a title? The 
past 11 NBA 
I championships
have been
Matt Blum/ Tartan Junior Staff ^ won by Chi
cago (5), Houston, Detroit, and the Los 
Angeles Lakers (two each). With the 
exception of Hakeem Olajuwon, who 
lost an NCAA final, the star from each 
team (Michael Jordan, Isiah Thomas, 
and Magic Johnson) all won NCAA 
titles. Of the past 11 losers in the NBA 
finals, (Utah, Seattle, New York, Or
lando, Phoenix, Portland twice, LA. 
twice, and Boston) six featured at least 
one star player who had played in an 
NCAA final. If phenoms like Garnett
Hightower (do these guys have great and Bryant want respect, they should
names or what?) who, if ESPN can be 
trusted, is the ninth best prep in the 
land and has already decided hes 
going pro. What makes Hightower 
think hes the next Kobe Bryant?
go to college, be the man there first, 
and put their school in the finals.
Chris Cannon is a senior computer 
science major.

---------------------------------------------------

SUMMER SCHOOL FOR PEOPLE ON THEIR WAY TO THE TOP.
If you didn't sign up 
for ROTC as a freshman 
or sophomore, you can 
catch up this summer by 
attending Army ROTC 
Camp Challenge, a paid 
five-week course in 
leadership.
Apply now! Youll
develop the leadership 
skills and self-confi
dence you need to 
succeed in college and 
beyond. And you may 
qualify for advanced 
officer training when 
you return to campus 
next fall.
ARMY ROTC
THE SMARTEST COLLEGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE
For details, visit 409 Bellefteld Hall 
on the University of Pittsburgh campus, 
or call 624-6495.
Bum GUNS AND VIOLENCE
eAn NLV TEN BUCKS!
Yeah, for 10 BUCKS 
the high-caliber madness 
of this new 
bang-up comedy 
can be yours!
And what s not to like about
10 neurotic city dwellers...
23 scenes...
Lots of guns...
and enough bloodshed to make
Quentin Tarantino blush.
BMW*,
y Keith Reddin
At TEN BUCKS a ticket it would
be a crime to miss it.
Bring your Public Theater ticket stub
ANY NIGHT to the Strip s
hottest nightclub
HAVE A NICE DAY CAFE
and they II waive the cover charge /
THEARNCar
UNDER 25/FULLTIME STUDENT~$10
321-9800
Visa  MasterCard  Amex 
Allegheny Square - Northside
^iltaburgl) :Post-(fiazcltc
STUDY ABROAD IN ISRAEL FOR CREDIT 
AT
Tke Hebrew University of Jerusalem
? One Year Programs for Undergraduates
? Pre-Med Program
? Visiting Graduate Programs
? Two-year M.A. Degree Programs
? Summer Courses
INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS  JUDAIC STUDIES  
ARCHAEOLOGY  SPECIALIZATIONS  POLITICAL 
SCIENCE  ISRAEL STUDIES  HEBREW LANGUAGE 
MIDDLE EAST/ISLAMIC STUDIES  COMPARATIVE 
RELIGION  POLITICAL SCIENCE  ANTHROPOLOGY
Colin Hogan from Hebrew University will be at 
the Student Union 
Friday, February 5 
11:30-2:00 PM
For more information, call:
(800) 404-8622 Hebrew University
discovering wellness 
stress management 
coping with change 
public speaking
i n v e s t i n -yourself.

an on-going series 
of I 6 personal, 
professional and academic 
development workshops
ime management 
feline library resources
rii: If-O? 
II!rnships
conv
Dimensions
Program runs Monday through Thursday weekly from January 26 - March 19
For information contact:
The Division of Student Affairs 268.2075

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  2 February 1998It
Recent violence plagues popular image of hockey
about what he has done. With the Olym
pic break beginning in a few days, play 
will not resume in the NHL until late 
this month. (And yeah, the kid deserved 
it. He rushed CMUs goalie the last time 
they played, and on Saturday he was as
On Net
by Jessica Strelitz
Last week, Paul Kariya got the first 
major penalty of his career for spearing 
Ed Ward of the Calgary Flames. Kariya, 
two-time winner of the Lady Byng Tro
phy for gentlemanly play, had only 30 
penalty minutes in his first two years of 
play. The same day, a 19-year veteran of 
the NHL, Boston Bruin Ray Bourque, 
was assessed the first major-misconduct 
of his career, for checking Pittsburghs 
Jaromir Jagr from behind. Everyone 
fights once in a while in hockey, right? 
Well, lately, it seems like everyone is 
panting to get down and dirty into it.
The NHL fined the Vancouver Canucks 
and the Buffalo Sabres $25,000 apiece 
on January 20 for multi-player brawls 
during a January 15 game. In addition, 
the league fined both teams coaches 
$5,000 each for not being able, or not 
wanting, to control their players. Over 
250 penalty minutes were handed out 
during the game, including time for a 
fight between between Buffalos Mat
thew Barnaby and Vancouvers goalie, 
Sean Burke.
A few days later, New Jersey Devils Tocchet will have a long time to think 
winger Scott Daniels was suspended for 
two games for headbutting P. J. Stock of 
the New York Rangers. Headbutting?
Daniels was also fined the league maxi
mum, $1,000.
Tony Granato, the San Jose Sharksplayer who, after coming back to the big of an asshole as ever.)
NHL following brain surgery, won 
the Bill Masterson trophy last 
year for his perseverance and 
dedication to hockey  was sus
pended for two games on January 
27 for high-sticking Drew Ban
nister of the Anaheim Mighty 
Ducks. Of all people, I just didnt 
think that Granato would ever 
lose his cool and make a danger
ous play for someones head.
Closer to home, a certain player 
that I know came up to me after 
the CMU club hockey game Sat
urday night, grinning about how 
he had pulled a Tocchet with 
number 91 on Lock Havens team.
The Tocchet reference was to Rick 
Tocchet of the Phoenix Coyotes, 
who has been suspended twice in 
the last 10 days, both for knee-toknee hits. The first one was on 
Ryan Smyth of the Oilers, who 
required surgery and is out for 6-8 weeks 
due to a torn knee ligament. The second 
came last Friday night when Tocchet hit 
Red Wing center Steve Yzerman. The 
NHL suspended Tocchet for two games 
the first time, but gave him five games 
without pay after the Yzerman hit. And
had to be last year when a player from 
Indiana University of Pennslyvania low
ered his body to try and make contact 
with Ray Ardires knee. Ardire, an 
award-winning football linebacker and 
very experienced hockey player, simply 
shifted his body right to avoid getting 
hurt. The attacking player broke his
The thing about knee-to-knee hits is 
the danger that the cheap shot poses to 
both players. If a player goes into it 
stiff- kneed, he could inflict more dam
age on himself than on the other guy. In 
three years of college hockey, I have 
seen some nasty hits. But the worst oneVictories put hockey club in playoff contention
HOCKEY, from page 10
Brangwynne, started a scuffle 
that cost him the game (miscon
duct), and put Brangwynne in 
the box.
i Min, frustrated by the LHU
pressure in front, sent a puck 
out of the rink for another delay 
of game call as the clock clicked 
toward the curfew ice time 
of 10:05.
A series of poor CMU penalAnthony Chao/Tartan Photo Editor 
Carnegie Mellon kept the puck away from Lock Haven enought to win.
ties gave the opposition another 
power play going into the third. 
After the short break, LHU 
scored on the first shift and put 
the team up again, 5-4.
But LHU was tired and CMU, 
hearing the calls from the bench, 
was suddenly revived. With 
Brangwynne in the box on a 
slashing call, Grzywacz stormed 
down almost the entire 
length of the ice, after Leonhardt 
and Voulgaris had controlled 
the puck in the CMU zone.
Grzywacz punched a goal past 
LHU sending the crowd 
roaring. Brangwynne got out of 
the box a minute later, drew 
a smart penalty, and on the 
power play took a long shot from 
Duncan and senior Scott 
Fitzgerald, scoring what would 
be the game winner. CMU 
was up 6-5.
Not to be outdone, winger 
Jonathan Berkowitz streaked 
down the ice with the puck and 
sent a perfect pass to Duncan, 
who stuffed in his second of 
the night and sealed the 
CMU lead.
>dcc
Noodle Restaurant 
Oakland
(Near Cathedral 
of Learning)
400 South Craig St 
687-7777 
Open Monday-Sunday li
tyuM 'HoocUe 
S<zt at Act Act4,
Thirty seconds later, Jander 
and Leonhardt controlled the 
disk and got it to Grzywacz, 
who scored his third of the night. 
The game endeddue to curfew 
three minutes later and 
CMU celebrated what was now 
a winning streak.
Life is easy when youre on a 
line with [Grzywacz]. For two 
of the assists, I was in our zone 
and the other was from the 
blue line, said Loenhardt, com
fortable in his position shift 
to wing.
Its my first time [at wing], 
but whatever makes [Grzywacz] 
score, Ill do it, said Loenhardt. 
I love to set him up. Loenhardt 
had assists on all three of 
Grzywaczs goals.
wIt was nice to get a couple 
and I was given a lot of chances. 
But I cant seem to catch 
P.J. He is still hot, said 
Duncan.
Centering the second line, 
Grzywacz is more involved 
and in control of the tempo of 
the game. It is exactly where he 
wants to be. Grinning after the 
game, he summed up the night 
by saying, Duncans hot, but 
so am I.
The Carnegie Mellon Hokey 
Club returns to action against 
Edinboro College on, February 
7 at home at 8pm
mumbling to one another.
When I ran into that player at playoffsj 
months later, he was still in a neckbrace; 
He told me that that night he had been 
frustrated with Ardire (who had scored 
a handful of goals) and wanted to tak^ 
him out  but he knew the second tha$ 
he went into the check that he was 
making a grave mistake. That is what I 
call learning the really hard way. \ 
The worst thing about the recent rasli 
of suspensions, fines, and other bedlam 
in the NHL is that it continues to per-} 
petuate the stereotype that people have 
about hockey. I remember the old 
Dangerfield quote, I went to a hockey 
fight the other night and a game brok^ 
out. Dirty play and stupid brawling 
does nothing for public respect of the 
deeply mental and incredibly demand^ 
ing sport of hockey.
What can the NHL do? Raise the fines 
and watch the hitting. While hitting is a 
basic element of hockey, unfortunately sd 
are goons. Players have to be smart, play 
heads-up, and watch their own backs.
While I cant condone the bloodshed, I 
can offer hope to any CMU misconduct 
hopefuls. The leagues leading fighter* 
Krzysztof Oliwa, has played 44 game$ 
this year, scored 1 point, and amasseql 
223 penalty minutes. The kicker is that 
the 65 240 pounder was professionally 
trained in Poland as a computer techni
cian. Who knew?
Jessica Strelitz is a senior professional 
writing major.Men improve standing
Matt Blum/Tartan Junior Staff 
neck during the hit attempt  he split 
his top vertebra but was not paralyzed, 
even though he laid on the ice for 20 
minutes and did not move. Nobody on 
either bench moved the entire time. 
They just watched, horrified, rub
bing their own necks and softly
MEN, from page 10
UAA opponents. Those four 
games are also part of the string 
of vital matches against division 
opponents that Carnegie Mellon 
will face in the rest of the season. 
CMU will play eight of their last 
nine games 
against UAA 
teams, including 
two against di
vision leader 
University of 
Chicago.
Aside, from 
Chicago, who is 
undefeated in 
the league, there 
is a log-jam of 
teams in the 
middle of the 
pack, said 
Sofish. We re
alize that if we 
put a few wins 
together, we can 
really get our
selves back in 
the thick of 
things.
The latest 
standings for the 
UAA show that 
there is only one 
team with more 
than four wins, 
and only four 
teams with winningrecords (one
of which is NYU). Provided thal| 
CMU does well on their upcomf 
ing road trip and the last leg of 
the season, they can finish in j 
respectable place in the Univer'r 
sity Athletic Association basket^ 
ball standings.
Brian Smlth/Tartan Sports Co-Editor 
Junior Tommy Praesel goes strong to the inside.
classified
Do You Skip 
or Miss Your 
Periods?
Are You Con<erned 
About Your Overall 
Health or Infertility?
Researchers at Magee-Womens Hospital and die University of Pittsburgh 
ore conducting o research study. They are testing o new treatment aimed 
at helping women who skip or miss their periods due to stress.
You may be paid up to $900 for your participation.
If you answer yes" to these Questions, you moy qualify to participate:
 Do you hove fewer than 6 menstrual cycles or no cycles per yeai?
 Hove you skipped or missed your periods for more than 4 months?
 Are you 18-35 years old?
 Are you normal weight and a nonsmoker?
For more information please call (412) 641-1602
or e-moil us by visiting Magee-Womens Hospital web poge: 
http://www.magee.edu under Research ot Mogee, then 
participants for Research Study
Needed. Out Research Nurse will Magee-Womens Hospital 
contact you with detoils.
For a lifetime.
pOR SALE
Flowers For Valentines Day. Alex's 
Flowers 687-ALEX. 687-4128. Delivery. 
Credit Cards Accepted. Order early.
FLOWERS for romance, birthday, 
platonic, formals and more... Make 
someone smile! Group discounts.
Alex's Flowers. 687-ALEX. 687-4128. 
Delivery. Credit Cards Accepted. Call 
before noon for same day delivery. 
www.alexsflowers.com
JOBS
Part- Time position for computers 
support tech. Flexible hours. $12/ 
hour. Experience desired.
We are Resident Coed Recreational 
Summer Camp located 90 miles West 
of Wash DC in the mountains of West 
Virginia. We have openings for 16 
additional men and women who love 
children and want the best summer of 
their lives. Also openings for Head 
Counselors, Program Director and
Nurses. Call Jerry at 1-800-625-6161 for 
more information or fax your resume to 
301-681-6662.
Pro-Choice Employment Needed: Self
motivated person to run Western 
Pennsylvania Pro-Choice Organizing 
project. Pittsburgh based. Half-time. 
Requirements: Commitment to abortion 
rights, independent work style, organiz
ing skills. Send resume, cover letter to 
NARAL-PA at 225 S. 15th Street, 
Suite300, Philadelphia, PA 19102. Salary 
commensurate with experience.
SERVICES
Gentle dental care and high technology 
for the 21 st century. Visit our interactive 
website at www.dentalpgh.com
TRAVEL
Low Student and faculty fares to 
international destinations. Good domestic 
fares, AYH and Eurail passes. 9-5 M-F, 
9:30- Noon Saturday. 4609 Winthrop 
Street, Off South Craig. Forum Travel
681-4099
Miami only $79 o.w. Mexico/ Carib
bean or San Juan $100 r.t. Europe $179 
o.w. Other world wide destinations 
cheap. ONLY TERRORISTS GET YOU 
THERE CHEAPER! Air-Tech (212) 219- 
7000. (800) 575-TECH. 
www.airtech.com
Classified Rates
1 -20 words.........$10.00/wk
21 -50 words............$12.00/wk
51-100 words........$15.00/wk
MAIL TO:
The Tartan, Box 17 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
Classifieds must be paid in cash or 
check before first run date
On-campus departments and 
organizations may pay by journal 
transfer
Due by 5 pm the Thursday before 
publication
THETARTAN 
268-2111

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
Volume 92, Issue 15The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania2 February 1998
Swim teams end stellar season
By JOSHUA MERRY
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
The CMU swim team finished 
up its regular season last week on 
a strong note with two meets. On 
Friday, both the mens and 
womens teams beat Westminster 
College. Less than 24 hours later, 
the teams were in action again, 
this time taking on West Virginia 
Wesleyan College (WVW) in the 
last dual meet of the season. The 
team did not let fatigue stand in 
their way, and, as a testament to 
exceptional training, turned in one 
of their best efforts of the season, 
beating the smaller WVW team.
Saturdays meet was strong 
from start to finish. The 400m 
relay event, in particular, high
lighted the strong performance 
of the underclassmen. CMU 
swam two teams  one was 
comprised entirely of first-year 
students, and the other fea
tured four seniors. Youth was 
victorious over seniority, as the 
freshman won by less than a 
quarter second. The closest 
race of the day was the womens 
50 free event, in which CMU 
freshman Julie Tseng won by 
one hundredth of a second, 
over a junior from WVW.
After many more exceptional perfor
mances and winning times, the men and. 
women came out on top, defeating WVW 
129-76 and 111-93, respectively. In addi
tion to the score, possibly the most excit
ing part of the day was after the score had 
been announced and the celebration of an 
exceptional season began. The team pro
ceeded to throw the three swim coaches 
into the pool in celebration.
Carnegie Mellon and West Virginia Weslyan sprang into action during the final meet last Saturday.
The win lifted the women to their first 
winning season in the history of Carnegie 
Mellon womens swimming. The 6-4 record 
can in large part be attributed to excep
tional training, a steady growth in talent, 
and a particularly strong base of under
classmen. The womens swim team improves 
every .year, and this year shows that the 
CMU women will not accept defeat, said 
senior and captain of the womens team 
Chandra Wheeler.
The womens swim team improves every 
year, and this year shows that the CMU 
Women will not accept defeat, said senior 
and captain Chandra Wheeler.
Senior Jake McGuire said, Im extremely 
pleased with the way the meet turned out. 
8-2 is by far our best record; peoples times 
are improving everywhere, the team is just 
kicking ass in general. Both the men and 
womens teams will be losing 4 seniors this 
Please see SWIMMING, page 9
Winter Olympics 
arrive in Nagano
riod this February, the entire 
world will be watching Nagano. 
However, the spectacle of the 
This is the first in a series of XVIII Winter Olympics is a far
By PETER PATTERSON
Tartan Junior Staff
Winter Olympics articles for The 
Tartan. This week the focus is on 
the history of the Games in order 
to set the stage leading up to this 
years Games.
This Saturday, February 7, 
will mark the opening of one of 
the largest sporting events ever 
held. Nearly 3,000 athletes from 
72 countries will converge on 
Nagano, Ja- ________________
pan for the 
Opening Cer
emonies of the 
1998 Olympic 
Winter 
Games. The 
event will 
unite people 
from across 
the globe  
from frigid Ice
land andNorway to tropical Ber
muda and Jamaicawhile cap
turing the attention ofhundreds 
of millions of fans. On top of the 
Gaines themselves, the Olym
pics will be a testament to mod
em press coverage as hundreds 
of media personnel, dozens ofcommunication satellites and the al
mighty World Wide Web will be 
utilized to scrutinize each milli
meter anpl thousandth of a second 
of tHe games. For a two-week peNagano 1998
cry from the humble origins of 
the games. Take a step back 
from the glitz and grandeur of 
the present and imagine a 
much different picture in 1896. 
That was is the year the mod
ern Olympic Summer Games 
were founded by Frenchman 
Baron Pierre deCoubertin. He 
was reluctant to include win
ter sports to complement his
__________________________ existing
summer 
games. The 
original 
games were 
occasion
ally pep
pered with 
sports such 
as figure 
skating and 
ice hockey, 
but not until 28 years after the 
inital Olympics did the winter 
sports obtain their own venue.
In 1924, this venue came 
about in the form of the Inter
national Winter Sports Week. 
The experimental venture was 
organized by the Olympic com
mittee and took place leading 
up to the 1924 Summer Games 
in Paris. The first Winter 
games did not come without 
Please see OLYMPICS, page 9
Games of the XVIII Olympiad
Hockey club wins third straight
By JESSICA STRELITZ
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
The Carnegie Mellon ice hockey team 
took another step on the comeback trail 
Saturday night, winning their third 
straight game this semester, 8-5 over 
Lock Haven University (LHU). The win 
improves the teams record to 5-4-1 in 
the division, 5-6-1 overall, and puts 
CMU back in the playoff hunt.
Przemyslaw (P.J.) Grzywacz contin
ued to light up the scoreboard, recording 
his second hat trick in two weeks. He has 
had eight goals in three games.
But this game almost didnt happen. 
The Lock Haven team was almost 30 
minutes late and barely missed forfeit
ing the game. While the team managed 
to get enough players on the ice in time 
to start, they still had a short squad (13 
players) for the entire contest.
LHU played man-to-man throughout 
the first two periods, keeping on the body
and working effectively to intercept 
CMUs sloppy passing. The first goal came 
well into it when the defenseive tandem 
of freshman Aaron Hula and sophomore 
Cliff Brangwynne drove to the net. 
Brangwynne caught freshman Rick Ebert 
in front of the goal, his back to the tender. 
Ebert took the pass, turned fast, and 
slipped the puck under the LHU goalie, 
scoring his first goal of the season.
It was fitting for [the third linel to get 
the first goal of the game. They have 
worked hard for it all year, said head 
coach Fred Maddalena, about Ebert and 
sophomores Brandon Paluzzi and Ryo 
Ota  CMUs third line of offense, who 
hustled hard all night.
Lock Haven managed to score two 
quick ones, putting the Tartans behind. 
But the team surged back when 
Grzywacz, at center for the first time all 
year, got control of the disk from 
linemate Steve Leonhardt. Grzywacz 
scored, and the tie held until 40 seconds
before the end of the first, when LHU 
took advantage of CMU not clearing 
the puck from its own zone, sending 
another one past starting goaltender 
Gil Min. The score stood at 3-2 LHU 
and set off some high tensions.
CMU swung into action to start the 
second period. On his first shift, grad 
student Adam Duncan charged towards 
the net and scored with help from senior 
defenseman Paul Voulgaris and Ota. Less 
than a minute later, Ebert came into the 
LHU zone and got a short shot. Senior 
Derek Jander controlled the rebound and 
Ebert shot again, but the rebound went 
out to Voulgaris who slapped it home and 
put the Tartans up 4-3.
With six minutes left in the period, 
LHU was on the power play after a delay 
of game call made when Min cleared an 
LHU shot out of the rink. LHU tied it, 4- 
4. Things looked out of control on the ice 
as an LHU player, head hunting for 
Please see HOCKEY, page 11
Anthony Chao/Tartan Photo Editor 
Paul Voulgaris squirms away from the grasp of a Lock Haven defender.Tartans hold on for narrow UAA victory
Dlldll OIIIIUI/ IdllciM OJJUIlb IsU-CUIlUl
Junior Dan Bowersox gives a lift to the Carnegie Mellon offense.
By NATHAN STEINWALD
Tartan Sports Co-Editor
On Sunday, January 25, the 
mens basketball team played 
their second home game in a row 
against division opponent New 
York University. CMU was com
ing off its first UAA win only two 
days before, against Brandeis 
University, and wanted desper
ately to earn a second and con
tinue to climb out of the base
ment of the UAA.
The New York University Vio
lets brought their 9-5 record with 
five wins and three losses in the 
UAA. The Tartans held a slightly 
less impressive 6-9 record with 
one win and four losses in the 
UAA. Yet, the team was optimis
tic about their chances, especially 
after having beaten Brandeis. It 
was a major motivating factor, 
said senior forward and co-captain Andy Sofish. We desper
ately needed to get a league win, 
and Brandeis is a team that we 
have been able to handle in the 
past with some consistency.
Early in the game, Carnegie 
Mellon fed off the need for more 
division wins and a chance to do 
it at home before they hit the 
road for a four-game stretch. Jun
ior forward Brad McNutt led the 
way for the Tartans in the first 
half. McNutt gives the Tartans 
an inside presence and is able to 
combine his physical play with 
the ability to face the basket and 
shoot over opponents close to the 
basket. Despite having been in
jured in the previous game, 
McNutt helped CMU to a 29-22 
lead for the first half.
Through the second half, 
Carnegie Mellon was able to hold 
onto its lead. Sofish finished the 
game with a team-high 17 points 
for the Tartans, having made 3 
out of 5 of his three-point shots. 
The game featured a high num
ber of shots from long range, in
cluding 29 three-point attempts 
from the Violets. CMU finished 
the game strongly, winning the 
game with a 61-54 score.
The win came at an important 
time in the season for CMU. It 
was their second UAA win in a 
row and helped to take away some 
of the bad taste left from their 
four UAA losses in the first half of 
the season. It also served to give 
the Tartans a good springboard 
into the final half of their season.
The next four games for CMU 
are all on the road, and all against 
Please see MEN, page 11
CMU track sprints 
into new season
By MARSHALL WARFIELD
Dossier Literary Co-Editor
The first serious show ofTartan 
track toughness pummelled a size
able hole in the wall of events at 
Slippery Rocks indoor track meet 
over the weekend. The sometimes 
injury-causing, banked track was 
no match for the women and the 
sometimes slippery floor of the 
basketball court didnt stop the 
field competitors. Many team 
members cant wait for the out
door season, but they still put 
effort into this meet.
Upperclassmen like sophomore 
Todd Kozuki and junior Stephen 
Wetter dominated. Kozuki triple 
jumped for 40 2. He hopes to 
improve by 2 by the time UAAs 
roll around. Wetter, in his first 
meet of the season, threw for 43 
10 in the shot put.
Upperclasswomen also per
formed well. Junior Rosemary 
Perez threw for 33 3 in the shot 
put. Senior Kerri Riley threw for 
336, which brough both women 
into the top eight. Senior Jes
sica Connollys official results in 
the triple jump are unavailible 
at press time, but according to 
Coach Dario Donatelli, she may
have set an indoor triple jump 
school record for the women.
The track events had their share 
of strong Tartans as well. Kerri 
Riley did an outstandingjob at the 
55m hurdles, said Donatelli. 
Sophomore Amy Antoci, part of 
the womens 4x4 relay team, earned 
a quite well from Donatelli in 
terms of her performance. The 
relay team finished third. On the 
mens side, junior Kelan Weiloch 
placed fourth in the 3000m. It was 
his first meet of the season.
Were training hard to pei'r 
form well at Dennison, si 
Donatelli. We really have to 
get keyed up to compete against 
our toughest competitors. The 
toughest competitors are 
Emory, Wash. U., and Brandeis.
Gary Meckley, the coach of the 
mens team, had to leave the meet 
eaiiy due to a family emergency. I 
thought that the men performed 
very well in the field events, he 
said. Coach Donatelli continued 
to get results after I left.
The Tartan track teams next 
meet is on February 14 at 
Dennison, but several team mem
bers are already lookingforward to 
Chicago in early March, as the 
Windy City hosts UAAs.

---------------------------------------------------

T TTT1T/X[9 ES ? S3 S E3 aop B
Volume 92, Issue 15The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania2 February 1998
All art this page by 
Mary Tremonte/Tartan Junior Staff
Discover research
By PAUL BOOTHE
Tartan Contributing Editor
One of the key aspects that sets CMU apart from other 
institutions its size is the schools emphasis on undergradu
ate research. The Undergraduate Research Initiative (URI), 
which operates out of Warner Hall 429, coordinates under
graduate research opportunities from every college and de
partment here at CMU.
Getting involved
Getting started on research as an undergrad can be as easy 
as meeting with one of your professors and asking to work 
with them on a research project. Most departments maintain 
a listing of each faculty members research interests, and they 
can help give you direction when you are just starting out.
Also, the URI publishes an annually-updated Research 
Directory which is available both in the library and on-line, 
cataloging all CMU researchers and their areas of expertise. 
From these resources, decide which professors are doing 
research which interests you and schedule time to talk with 
them about working on their project.
What's in it for everyone
Most CMU professors split their time between research and 
teaching duties  research and publications are cornerstones 
of a universitys reputation and faculty tenure. Graduate stu
dents work on facets of the research under the professors 
guidance in order to further their own educations. However, 
there is usually a lot of work that needs to be done, and a limited 
number of graduate students due to budget and workspace 
constraints. Undergrads can do a lot of the simpler research 
tasks, freeing up the grad students to focus on their projects. 
Undergrads are cheap  often working for class credit or an 
hourly wage  and usually come in only a few days a week. In 
exchange, undergrads get valuable experience and mentoring 
that they often cannot get in the classroom, a r6sum6 and 
interview builder which sets them apart from other students, 
and a chance for a faculty member to really get to know them 
for fantastic letters of recommendation.
Learning outside 
the classroom
Student builds virtual worlds
By KEVIN BABBITT
Tartan Features Editor
There I stood with nothing but my reaction 
time and my lightsaber to protect me from the 
droid hovering above me. It floated to the left, 
then upward a bit; my body tensed into a defen
sive position as I followed its motions. It then 
fired two quick blasts at me. The first stung my 
arm, but I managed to deflect the second. Soon 
enough, however, I got the knack of using my 
weapon to stop the onslaught.
Finally, the simulation ended. I removed my 
helmet and set down the plastic lightsaber that 
Dan Moskowitz had handed me a few minutes
;o. Moskowitz, a sophomore electrical and com
puter engineering major, works on the Alice 
Virtual Reality (VR) project directed by Randy 
Pausch, a professor in the Human-Computer 
Interaction Institute (HCII).
Alice derives its name from Lewis Carrolls 
Alice in Wonderland and allows the user to create 
fictional, three-dimensional worlds on a computer. 
According to Moskowitz, one of its strongest fea
tures is that, while it is a powerful tool for model
ing complex environments, it is easy enough to 
use so that simple worlds can be put together in a 
short time  the lightsaber simulation was put 
together in only a weekend.
Moskowitz got started with Alice last April dur
ing Spring Carnival. I had a booth.... [Two friends 
and I] made a game in which you have to shoot the 
Energizer bunny, he said. Randy Pausch checked 
out our booth, and the guy there told him who made 
[the game]. He left his business card and told him 
to make sure we got in touch with him.
The following summer, Moskowitz joined the 
Alice project team. The team consists of art, drama, 
and computer science students brought together 
by a common interest in virtual reality. Since 
then, he has-worked on a variety of aspects of the 
Alice project, including photo-based modeling and 
a special exhibition of the project in Los Angeles. 
Currently he is the only permanent undergraduPlease see ALICE, page L3
Budding poet creates children's book
By RYAN DONOVAN
Tartan Contributing Editor
Remember Shel Silverstein and 
all the hours you spent reading 
his poems, admiring his draw
ings, and wishing for a giving 
tree of your own? Sonja Brandt 
does, and with the help of a SURG 
grant, she hopes to create these 
same memories for a new genera
tion of children.
Brandt, a junior art and cre
ative writing major, received a 
SURG grant to create an illus
trated book of poetry for children 
 something she had long 
thought about doing but never
expected would become reality.
I knew I wanted to do it, but I 
wasnt sure if I actually [would], 
she said. When the time for 
SURG proposals came along, so 
did her chance to make the con
cept a concrete reality.
While she could have done the 
actual poetry and art without 
the grant money, she wouldnt 
have been able to make 15 full 
color copies and present them 
personally to public and private 
elementary schools in Maryland 
and Pittsburgh. Her first stop 
will be a first-grade elementary 
class in Maryland, taught by 
her mother.
At these schools, she plans to 
introduce the students to her 
book and talk a little about be
ing a writer and an artist. Then 
she will get them involved in 
the creative process by asking 
them to either draw a picture or 
take one from a pile of pictures 
and write about it  turning 
the visual into a poem.
I think its important to get 
creative energy going for little 
kids because theres not much 
opportunity for that. In schools, 
its more factual learning, like 
history and math, said Brandt. 
If theres anything on poetry, 
its a short unit.
She plans to divide the poems 
into four thematic areas: 
dreams, nature, love, and friend
ship. One poem, The Fork in 
the Road, deals with how she 
and a grade-school friend even
tually drifted apart and went 
their separate ways in life.
This is not Brandts first ex
perience helping children. For 
the past three summers, she has 
worked as a camp counselor. 
During swim time, she would 
Please see ART, page L3

---------------------------------------------------

J.2The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  2 February 1998
COLLEGE OF 
FINE ARTS
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE 
. OF TECHNOLOGY
GRADUATE SCHOOL OF 
INDUSTRIAL ADMINISTRATION
HUMANITIES & 
SOCIAL SCIENCES
MELLON COLLEGE 
OF SCIENCE
SCHOOL OF 
COMPUTER SCIENCE
College Briefs
The Student Script Reading 
Group, a forum where student play
wrights can hear their work per
formed and seek criticism, is look
ing for plays to read this semester. 
The group also connects play
wrights with those interested in 
producing or directing.
For more information, see the 
groups Web site at http:// 
www.andrew.cmu.edu/~smurray/ 
script or contact the group at 
newplays+@andrew.cmu.edu.
This Wednesday, February 4, 
Srihari Cadambi will present a semi
nar on managing pipelinereconfigurable field programmable 
gate arrays (FPGAs) from noon to 1 
pm in Hamerschlag Hall D210.
Cadambi will describe PipeRench, 
an architecture which supports a 
combination of pipeline reconfig
uration and run-time scheduling of 
both configuration and data streams. 
It is predicted to outperform both 
FPGAs and DSPs in overall perfor
mance and performance per unit 
area, and is expected to be forward 
compatible with fture architectures.
Six GSIA students will represent 
CMU in the Corporate Finance Case 
competition, scheduled for this Sat
urday, February 7, beginning at 
12:30 in Mellon Auditorium. Stu
dents are welcome to attend the pre
sentation portion of the competition.
The competition will include teams 
from the University of Chicago, 
North western University, the Uni
versity of Michigan, MIT, Duke 
University, and CMU.
This Wednesday, February 4, the 
Psychology Department will present 
Laura Namy of Northwestern Uni
versity in a seminar entitled Words 
and Gestures: Developmental Pat
terns in Infants Word Learning and 
Symbol Acquisition, from 3:30 to 5 
pm in Baker Hall 355.
Namys presentation will consist 
of a series of studies showing that 
infants word-learning is not a sepa
rate process, but rather is related to 
their learning of other symbolic 
forms such as gestures. Further
more, she will show that the focus on 
spoken language as the primary 
means of communication develops 
over time with experience.
Minor remodeling work will be 
conducted at the Mellon Institute 
library today, February 2. Both the 
main reading room and the periodi
cal reading room will be accessible, 
but probably too noisy to study in. 
Journals can be checked out for use 
outside the library in the office (see 
Ona or Kathy).
The work consists of dismantling 
and moving some shelving as a tem
porary solution to a space shortage.
Two companies will be presenting 
information sessions this week for 
interested students. HewlettPackard will be on campus this Tues
day, February 3, at 6:30 pm in Wean 
Hall 5409. Pizza will be served.
Walt Disney Feature Animation 
will have a special session this 
Thursday, February 5, in Wean 
Hall 7500 at 4:30 pm. Refreshments 
will be served.
Mesmerized by Fiction...
negieMl
MYRON HELFG0TT
Hillary Carey/Tartan Junior Staff
Sian Heder (left), a junior drama major, and Stacie Fried (right), a senior music major, study Myron Helfgotts exhibit Fiction" at the Hewlett Gallery.
ON CAMPUS
Student volunteers bring Special Olympics to CMU
By ANAND MARATHE
Tartan Staffwriter
No matter what their reasons were for 
participating, the volunteers from GSIA 
and Lambda Sigma who helped orga
nize and run the GSIA/Camegie Mellon 
Basketball Invitational gained some
thing unique from the experience.
Last Sunday, five teams with a total of 
85 athletes and 20 coaches from through
out Allegheny and Beaver Counties came 
to CMU for the GSIA/Carnegie Mellon 
Basketball Invitational. Over 200 vol
unteers turned out to help, including A1 
Martin of the Pittsburgh Pirates.
The work that has gone into plan
ning an event of this magnitude is 
really an eye-opener, said Glenn 
Harbold, a GSIA student.
The organizing committee from GSIA 
consisted of Harbold and graduate stu
dents Greg Beloff, Nick Longman, Jo
seph Ferris, and Cheryl Reneau, who 
worked with the Allegheny County Spe
cial Olympics to schedule, coordinate, 
and stage the tournament. They were 
also responsible for raising funds for the 
event, collecting a total of over $7,000 
from corporate sponsors Deloitte & Tou
che, Fisher Scientific, Eat N Park Res
taurants, and SmithKline Beecham.
Lambda Sigma, a sophomore honor 
society founded on the principles of ser
vice, scholarship, leadership, and fel
lowship, also gave their time to the 
planning and execution of the competi
tion, helping with registration and dis
tribution of t-shirts, getting the ath
letes and teams from place to place, 
running the games, and working with 
athletes in some skill clinics.
This event is one of the numerous 
opportunities for individuals at this uni
versity to come out and get involved in 
some service, said Lesley Leposo, presi
dent of Lambda Sigma. We decided to 
participate ... because it was an oppor
tunity for us to be of help to other 
members of society.
The volunteers cited a variety of rea
sons for wanting to participate in the 
organization of the event. Beloff believes 
that hosting the event here will help to 
strengthen the connections between 
CMU and the community. He also 
stressed the importance of community 
awareness and support as a part of the 
educational experience.
We hope that the event and the 
money we raise help bring attention to 
the school and the students, said 
Harbold. This will show that we want 
to be an important part of the commu
nity and not just live here for a few 
years while we get an education. 
Beloff also pointed out that this event 
gave volunteers the chance to grow as 
individuals. CMU is constantly turning
out the leaders of tomorrow,  he said. 
These leaders should be as well-versed 
in community activism as they are in 
traditional academic areas such as math, 
science, or business.
Others volunteered simply for the per
sonal satisfaction associated with help
ing others. I have the capability to help 
other people who are less fortunate than 
I am, and I feel that it is my responsibil
ity to do so, said Ferris.
Many of the organizers have worked 
with Special Olympics before, includ
ing Beloff, who has been volunteering 
as a coach for 11 years. He enjoys 
participating in sports himself, and 
works with the Special Olympics to 
help others do the same.
Longman has been working with the 
organization since last fall. [Through] 
volunteering, I... have the opportunity to 
enrich other peoples lives just as several 
people have done for myself, he said.
Lunar Gala spotlights fashion, performance
By GREGORY NOFI
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Last Wednesday, the moon com
pleted another orbit around the 
Earth amid the celebrations of 
over a billion Asians. It was time 
to celebrate the Lunar New Year 
and usher in the Year of the Ti
ger. The 500 attendees at last 
Saturdays Lunar Gala fashion 
show got the chance to see cloth
ing and entertainment charac
terized by the attributes of the 
tiger: aggressive, candid, color
ful, and energetic.
In addition to presentations 
from Benetton, Banana Repub
lic, Victorias Secret, Choices, and 
Moda, the show featured exhibi
tions of student designs as well 
as talents such as singing and 
dancing. The student design por
tion of the program displayed 
the work of three CMU students, 
including Chiayi Lee, a junior social and 
decision sciences major, who designed a 
dress made out of newspaper.
The special design exhibition high
lighted that the Lunar Gala was not 
just about fashion.
The show is trying to show what 
CMU students are capable of doing, 
said Douglas Lee, a sophomore indus
trial management major and assistant 
producer of the show.
The Lunar Gala also serves as an 
opportunity for several of the Asian stu
dent groups in Pittsburgh to work to
gether. The Asian Students Association
Llsette Mlller-Dlxon/Tartan Darkroom Manager 
Dancers perform at the second annual Lunar Gala fashion show last Saturday night.
(ASA), Hong Kong Students Association 
(HKSA), Singapore Students Associa
tion (SSA), Taiwanese Students Asso
ciation (TSA), and the Asian Student 
Assocation at the University of Pitts
burgh are all involved in the annual 
production of the show.
The idea of having a fashion show was 
conceived in the fall of 1996 when five 
student leaders from CMU and the Uni
versity of Pittsburgh wanted to plan an 
event that would celebrate the excitement 
of the Chinese New Year and bring that 
excitement to Pittsburgh. They believed 
that a fashion show would be especially
appropriate to celebrate the Chinese New 
Year, since clothing is an integral part of 
Chinese tradition on that day.
To the Chinese people, Chinese New 
Year is a big deal, said Shannon Tam, 
assistant producer and sophomore social 
and decision sciences major. They wear 
new clothes to the first day of work.
Jimmy Chiang, producer and senior in
dustrial management major, was respon
sible for finding sponsors for the first 
Lunar Gala, which took place on February
8,1997 in the lobby of the CFA building. 
Chiang already knew several of the man
agers that he asked for sponsorship. He
told them that the students 
wanted to do a professional fash
ion show that would strengthen 
the community through aware
ness and celebration.
We wanted to help everyone 
out, he said. The students 
would help the local businesses, 
and the local businesses would 
help the students.
To build on last years show 
the producers of this years Lu
nar Gala contacted more spon
sors in an effort to boost variety. 
As a result, Banana Republic 
was added to the program, while 
other local businesses contrib
uted products and services such 
as hair styling, sunglasses, and 
even cigars.
The 1998 Lunar Gala was a 
culmination of six months of 
preparation and proved to be a 
big success in the eyes of the 
staff. At first there were a lot of 
problems ... but the show was great. It 
was better than last years, said Pang 
Loh, backstage director and senior 
chemical engineering major.
Overall, the audiences reaction was 
favorable as well. The fashion show 
was especially classy, full of elegance, 
and professionally done, said James 
Yang, a sophomore philosophy major 
who attended the show.
Next year, the producers plan to make 
the staff more diverse. Even though the 
event is an opportunity for the local 
Asian student groups to work together, 
everyone is invited to participate.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  2 February 1998L3
Artist uses grant to 
bring poetry to youth
unfH from page LI
have free time to draw portraits and 
cartoon characters for the children 
by the pool.
The kids would get so excited about 
it, said Brandt. Id leave with a list
There are so many stories out 
there. If [kids] take to writing 
hopefully their imaginations will 
keep going."
 Sonja Brandt, junior art major
of drawings to do.... Then kids started 
to bring their own notebooks to the 
pool just so they could draw with me 
instead of swim.
Brandt attributes her own creativ
ity to childhood inspirations like Shel 
Silverstein and Dr. Seuss, as well as to 
creative peers at CMU. Ive been ... 
lucky [to] meet really inspiring people 
at CMU, she said.
Drawing with the kids reminded her 
why she started drawing in the first
place  because it was fun. And it still 
is fun for her. Although she regularly 
takes seven classes a semester, she 
doesnt really notice the work when 
its something she loves to do.
You feel like youre creating some
thing  you have
this great prod
uct, she said.
She hopes the il
lustrated book of 
poems she is creat
ing will encourage 
kids to make their 
own paintings. She 
also hopes her poetry will be easy for 
the children to re
late to and something they can enjoy.
Brandt hopes that the art will also 
inspire the kids and draw them into 
poetry. She says that children already 
have the creativity; they just need the 
encouragement to channel it into some 
sort of personal expression.
[At camp], theyd come up with these 
cool stories, and theyd be ... different 
people. There are so many stories out 
there. If they take to writing, hopefully
their imaginations will keep going.
CMU community sees no color
-<ZE>
Defining Ethnicity
by Michelle Han
Recently, The New York Times called 
race the great American obsession. 
Columnist Steven Holmes wrote, The 
concept of providing minorities and 
women special breaks to compensate 
for discrimination  past or present, 
real or imagined, intentional or inad
vertent  dominates the nations ob
session with race relations.
KDKA featured a story on teens in 
open-forum discussions about race rela
tions last week, one of a series of discus
sions that took place across the nation.
But step onto the campus of CMU, where 
almost every other face you see is the face 
of a minority, and everything changes: 
The issue of race all but disappears.
When I walk around CMU I see a 
typical college campus: students stand
ing in clumps, walking on sidewalks, 
carrying backpacks, going to class. I see 
minority groups in clumps as well, but I 
also see minority students everywhere.
I see them in computer clusters working 
on their programs, I see them acting on 
the stage of the Kresge Theatre, and I 
see them building Carnival booths in 
the spring. What I dont see is a student 
being singled out because of his race.
I grew up in a neat suburb on the north 
shore of Long Island, where all of my 
neighbors were white. I could count the 
number of Asian students in my elemen
tary school on one hand. I was quite a 
specimen with my jet black hair and 
smooth eyelids that didnt fold over at the 
top. Kids at the bus stop got a kick out of 
pulling back their eyes and calling me 
Chinese! in the sing-song, taunting tone 
that children are so prone to use. I used to 
open my eyes wide and pretend I didnt 
hear. For my Brownie troops fatherdaughter square dance, my father sported 
a pinstriped suit, while all the other girls 
dads wore cowboy boots and plaid.
Being of a different race was never an 
issue for me; it was a way of life. Race is not 
something you can hide. After 21 years of 
living, I am glad that I was bom Korean, 
but as a child, I wanted nothing more than 
to fit in with my blond-haired, blue-eyed 
friends. It was something I carried around 
on my face and in my blood, just as my 
parents, who immigrated here from Ko
rea in October of 1970, carry their past 
lives around in them.
But fit in is exactly what minority stu
dents do at CMU. If my blond-haired,
blue-eyed peers notice the color of my hair 
now, it is either embraced or ignored. Or 
accepted, once noticed. Educated white 
people at CMU surrounded by students of 
other races simply dont seem to care if you 
are a minority student. Race relations 
are reduced to blank stares, as if people 
had forgotten such a problem exists. Often 
race becomes an issue only when a person 
of a minority race makes it one. Other
wise, a student is just a student with a 
different-looking face.
Im not assuming problems of race 
dont occur at all at CMU. If they do, 
they happen behind closed doors. Im 
also not saying minority students should 
bask in the anonymity of cultural diver
sity, forgetting the heritage of their 
rich past; personal struggles ought to 
be a means of defining, not shunning, 
ethnicity. What I am saying is this: One 
day my stay in this padded, protected, 
anomalous world will end, forcing me 
into a world which will not be able to 
ignore the color of my skin or the fea
tures of my face. Discrimination  past 
or present, imagined or real, intentional 
or inadvertent  does exist. But for 
now, Im a little grateful for that insu
lating layer at CMU.
Michelle Hart is a senior creative writ
ing major and a second-generation Korean-American. She explores her personal 
ethnic experience through her writing.Undergrad brings digital modeling to masses
ALICE, from page LI
ate of the ten students working 
on the team.
Everyone can do a little of 
everything, and [can do] one 
thing really well, he said. Art
ists paint and model the scenes, 
and programmers write the code 
that ties it together.
Working with such a diverse 
team is one of Moskowitzs fa
vorite aspects of Alice. I really 
like the way the group is.... We 
hang out a lot on the weekends 
together, he said.
He also cites the working en
vironment as something he en
joys. The lab in which the group 
works, dubbed Randys Play
house, features a ceiling popu
lated with stuffed animals and 
Christmas lights.
Part of the team that worked 
on Alice that summer was from 
the Univeristy of Virginia, and 
this group continues its research 
on Alice in Charlottesville. Psy
chology faculty there have used 
Alice to research how the human 
mind reacts to being in a simu
lated environment and how to
best represent information in a 
VR environment. Via a projec
tion helmet, they have brought 
subjects into a room filled with 
floating letters and measured the 
reaction times and techniques 
used to locate a certain letter.
Besides psychology research, 
Moskowitz hopes that Alice can 
be used in teaching. He describes 
Alice as a three-dimensional ver
sion of LOGO, a programming lan
guage in which simple commands 
control an on-screen turtle 
(drawing cursor) that leaves aline 
trail behind it as it moves.
Because of the simplicity of 
the language used by Alice, it 
can be used to teach kids how to 
program, he said.
Companies experimenting 
with VR have also looked to Alice 
as an environment for develop
ing simulations. Chevron is 
working on an oil-rig simulation 
which can be used to train em
ployees before they are assigned 
to work on an actual rig.
Alice is also used by CMUs 
RoboCup group, which is working 
on creating a team of cooperative 
robots that play a game of soccer on
a miniature field. The group simu
lates the playing environment with 
Alice and can then explore it from 
the robots perspective.
Most of all, Moskowitz hopes 
that Alice will make three-dimen
sional modeling available to lots 
of people. While he expects few 
users to have a full-blown VR 
setup, he hopes that the simple 
language and the free availabil
ity of the software from sources 
such as the Alice homepage at 
http://alice.org will allow many 
people to put together simulated 
worlds with ease.
Cjmini
62.1- Hair
off 
any 
service 
with
student ID
Two heads 
are better than one.
Thats why Kevin the 
Features Editor needs 
an assistant. 
Interested? Stop by 
The Tartans 
recruitment meeting 
this Tuesday, February 
3 from 5 to 7 pm in 
the Adamson Wing.
THE TARTAN
Want to Make a Few Clams?
Do you have experience in making special seafood dishes? 
Or in serving, bartending, or swabbin the decks? If so, 
we think youll like our upscalebut funwork atmosphere,
The Pittsburgh Fish Market at Liberty Center (opening in 
late March) is looking for wait staff, kitchen staff, bar staff, 
cashiers, and hostesses. If you're a dedicated, responsible 
person with restaurant experience, looking 
for flexible work hours in an exciting 
new downtown restaurant, come see us.
Apply in person at the Liberty Center Building, 
between 11 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday thru Friday;
1001 Liberty Avenue, downtown, 7th floor.
Peters Cellar
Christian Coffee House
co-sponsored by United Campus Ministry 
and Albright United Methodist Church
Every Friday, 8-11 pm @ Albright UMC, 
corner of Center Ave & S. Grahm in Shadyside 
Call 628-1051 for details or email check+@andrew.cmu.edu
Desk ManagerWant to be a ^ 
or the
Residence Hall Service Desks?
Apply now for a position with Housing Services!
To apply, you must attend one of the, following information sessions 
in the Morewood TV Lounge:
Feb. pth - 7:30 & Feb. 12th - 6:30
Applications will be available at these sessions
Any Questions? 
send email to sshields@andrew.cmu.edu
Applications due Feb. 20th to Housing Services 
Desk Attendant experience preferred, but not required
Pennsylvania Governor's School for the Sciences (PGSS)
Undergraduate summer employment at Carnegie Mellon Univer
sity is available with the Pennsylvania Governor's School for the 
Sciences. The PGSS is a five-week summer school for extremely 
talented high school students from Pennsylvania. Teaching Assis
tant/Counselor appointments are available in the areas of biol
ogy, chemistry, physics, computer science and mathematics.
Applicants should have finished their sophomore year by the start 
of the program. Preference will be give to applicants with out
standing academic records. You will be expected to simultaneously 
serve as dormitory counselor and to live in the same dormitory as 
the PGSS students, see that the PGSS disciplinary rules are ad
hered to, provide tutorial help in the academic program, and con
duct program and social activities.
Stipend for five-and-one-half week period: $1200-$ 1600
(Depending on experience)
Free room and board
PGSS is in session from June 28 to August 1.
Counselor duties begin June 24, end August 1.
Applications are available in Mellon Institute 271.
Contact Gerry Rensko at 268-6669 or email rensko+@andrew.cmu.edu

---------------------------------------------------

by Scott (412)by Gary 6834-13
fBOUNTY 
HUNTERS. WE'RE 
LOOKING
Uck*isp
BRENNER.
 RUPB AWAKEN
ING IN SEATTLe.I APPOINTED 
MYSELF "DEPUTY 
OF COMMON 
SENSE." I '
SO, IT'S SIOIFT JUSTICE 
FOP, PEOPLE 60HO AREN'T 
TOO
SU)XFT? CAND I'M USINCT^ 
'  A CHOCOLATE
T^P GUN FOR IRONY.
I LOILL APPLY 5ULFT 
JUSTICE TO THOSE 
COHO EXHIBIT A 
LACK OF COMMON 
SENSE.
WHAT PO YOU 
WANT? MHO 
ARB YOU? j
DOWNTHEHAU) TO THE RIGHT. \ 
WATCH OUT 
FORTHESTEP
THANKS, 
KIP. 60 
BACKIO SLEEP.OKAY, POG-MEAT! 
PUT YOUR HANPSOUT WHERE I CAN) 
 SEE'EM.'r-^.
DEPUTY OF COMMON SENSEU/AIT A MINUTE... YEAH: 
I REMEMBER NOM! 
MATTY'S A... A...
MUTUAL FRJENP 
SENT ME. THE A 
WME MATTY I 
RUP/N RJNS I 
I A BELL ? jA
NO, LOOK AT THE 
AGENDA.* THE FOURTH 
HOUR 15 A DISCUSSION 
ABOUT GOHY MORALE
IS LOLJI f____________'
'--------------Vr fS122t Ma\\ ' Hr*. i
YOU SCHEDULED A 
FOUR-HOUR MEETING 
TO FIND OUT GOHY 
PEOPLE ARE BEHIND 
SCHEDULEj
WAKEY,
WAKEY,BARFBPEATH!
...BAIL 1 
BONPSMAN.
YOU'WHAT
.ARB YOU 
 POING 
I HERE? .
MATTY RUP/N? 
NAW...! SHOUU?\ 
I P157Du\ 
WHIP HIM 
NOW, PAP?)
DEPUTY OF COMMON SENSETRY/NG 70 TEACH 
MY KIP A USEFUL TRAPE! NOW MOVE IT/
 L HEY,
CMON,
r : A MAN...
YOU'RE MISSING THE 
SYMBOLISM. I GAVE 
THEfA CHESS PIECES TO 
SHOU) THAT OJE'RE ALL 
ON THE SAfAE TEAM.
HAVE YOU NO SENSE OF DECENCY? PRAGGING ME 
OUT OF MY OHJN HO MB- ?
I HAVE A KIP, TOO,
I PU KB, ASLEEP IN THE , 
bi NEXT ROOM...
SPECIFI
CALLY, YOU 
GAVE THEM 
PADNS.
HURRY! I 
6ETHIM0UT\ 
OF HERE I 
BEFORE mv,\ 
[ WAKES UP!)
I'M SAVING 
THE ROOKS 
FOR BONUS 
DAY. (------
...A BEAUTI
FUL UTTLB 
GIRL WHO 
LOVES ME 
MORBIHAN...
f PUKE...
\ YOU'RE 
BOUNTY 
HUNTING . AGAIN?)
YOU ARE ACCUSED OF 
TRYING TO MOTIVATE 
YOUR EMPLOYEES COITH 
INSULTING GIFTS. /
DEPUTY OF COMMON SENSE\PUKB, I SWEAR
rr-r toagel
JUMPING BAIL! \ 
I JUST HAVE J
I ivabgpaa lc m 
L los*:okiT
hm OF! JWl
f YOU'RE I BREAK!N' MY HEART HBRB/ZBKB.
\ COME ON, 
MAN! IF I 
60 BACK 
LLPO ( s HARP 
TIME/L
HOW DOES YOUR BOSS 
DETERMINE YOUR PAY?
WATCH 
YOUR 
STEP !
LOOK, IS IT 
MONEY YOU I BOYsnmr?\ 
I CAN PAY! I 
I'VE GOT... I 
UH...LETS \ 
. SEE:. J
HBRB! I BIGHT 
BUCKS! I 
TAKE 
TTALL!}
rF-CfDhrF--n 
.hu F-fyr h4 
nFy nuC4,7 D.D3 b
THE CAR AROUNP,
 SON. FARE YOU THE GOVERNMENT 
SAFETY
INSPECTOR? (YUP. I 'i 
W2 J LOVE fAYJ
iSj ^ 1
r PONT 
BOTHER.IT'S BASED ON  
THE DECREASE IN| 
ACd DENTS AFTER 
MY INSPECTION, j
MINE
100!
IT WAS A MAILBOX. OF COURSE, 
SO EARL LOOKEP IN THE PHONE 
BOOK, ANP BOOM-THERE )U 
WERE AT347WATERFRONT!SO 
WE BREAK/N, GRAB YOU, BNP 
OF STORY- EVERMNESHAPPY!
WELL, BRENNERAS YOU CAN 
IMAGINE, WITH A GENIUS LIKE 
YOURSELF, THAT WAS NO EASY 
PEAL. I HAP 70 CALL YOUR 
MOM TWICE WF/NP OUT WHERE 
5H WAS FORWARPING )UR SUBSCRIPTION 70 "HU5TLEP.V
m TESTING 
m Erf*\AJL. 
DID YOU GET 
THE "E" I 
SENT? y T
I OOULD MISS 
ALL THE HUMAN 
CONTACT.
MAYBE I SHOULD \ 
QUIT AND COORK 
FOR fAYSELF FROM' 
HOME. .-S"
SAME
AS
NOOO.
MP.GIVE
blokpal.
ISAIP1
WAS SOR-\ 
*3 RY! md
YOU PONT KNOW MY GIRLFRIENP! 5HES VERY WELL 
CONNECTEP IN SEATTLE/ 
I'LL BET THE COPS ARE COMBING THE STATE BY NOW!
YOU'LL INVENT 
VALUABLE 
THINGS AND 
I'LL EXPLOIT 
YOU ... I 
MEAN THEM.
DOING 
DH AT?
LISTEN TOME, PUKE! 
THIS IS KJPNAPP/N6, 
PO YOU KNOWTHAT?
I'M THINKING OF 
QUITTING AND 
COORKING FOR 
MYSELF.
l0gclsBHW
PIN6! YOU'RE 
GOING TO BE 
IN A H/ORLP 
OF TROUBLE!.
SEEN UNCLE [ f > ZEKB THIS NOT 
-, MORNING, F REALLY.
I HONEY?) '
CAN IT, 
SPAM- FORDON'T GIVE ME 
THAT INPUT, 
YOU "RESOURCE.
COME 
COORK 
FOR ME.
AFTER k FKVoRKBLE RKTINC. FRoM TUE FoCU4 &RoUP, 
IT UNDERWENT EXTENSIVE TE6T MARKETING-.Now, WTER MoNTUS 
oF CLEARING- LEGAL UURDLES, VTC READY FOR MASS- PRODUCTION.
oF CoURSE, TUE DOWNSIDE IS THAT IT'S 
Now OBSOLETE...
vii=yv\my
ACTUALLY, EVERYONE 
IN TUE RE4TWJBM4T 
0/0 KNOW TUE 
UEIML1CU hAWCUVER. 
BUT TUEY KL^o 
KNEW YoU WERE 
W l.R.6. AUDITOR...
...MJD WHEN1 'juwp;
I wwrr YouT2 68K. 
0U27 Ul5U?0
Vll=y vil=K
just because.
Every week, this little area is supposed to contain 
something funny, random, or weird. Its just 
another service brought to you by the friendly folks at 
Tartan Comics. Okay, its really space-filler, and some
times, Im all out of fill. But I dont want to be boring, 
so occasionally I like to throw in words like oregano, 
And mellifluous. Thats a great word. Great, grate, late.

---------------------------------------------------

^Vls eprsode. 
W basai oh 
rea\ If-fe.
by -James "-He Inter galactic Hopli^n" Plojbuj Joseph Hocking?nnier
^mma-kL.i \'m so gia<ou'fa tew! tf's so crazy 
aWV -Hie Clppershjj .. 
. sftlKng!
Vo rnoves sorneAVifng curong, 
?j3orT7mal L. NoJ Icok 
ail sertcus and sW
I/18/9S
why? have i done -somefhw + 
upseV ijou? you never mentioned 
anting +^aV i've <We wfc*^1. 
w\\e,f wH  go? f dn'+- 
LrvW"5^^... r-------"
emr having -Kcble nr/p y
classes, i A\ri\
hgU sdKail, t rnss f7iij tvvoKi;
V__v\uv^V>\e, vvujw\iD\e. 
X <UV| t-Ad ^r&x^
6orce.ftf) (Jo^n
I X JoiS mudi \I impressed bu ^ou.n 
3lauin<\ of iKe.
ca.enori<\o. 
de fecx-f a ri
X. need jour help 1L 
Ooj toiza/hl -Ocl C^cJ
/ W- colley is all aWu+V
groujngup a^4 rrkrg Cowpfo-'bu>V 'Roommate L, whaV
does Ws ba.1* \o o jm
juSrV" oianV wii
f~oo wl*
The Return of the Comics Survey
2. What comics would youjike to be 
reading regularly?
We want to kncj,w what you want to be 
splitting your side about in the comics 
section. So thisit your chance! Send this 
handy-dand^|clip-out survey to us via 
camvusmsm^^c^^ks^^mmtMcmu.edu.
T &e (Lr^nue^
3. Are you a sheep? (circle oiregularly?
%mbett m
DoonesM^r"
KidF
Non Sequitur 
Over the Hedge 
Robotman ^ 
Joe the Circll 
Dilate
amics Guy
The Tartan 
Box 17/ov, Dar Fon/ 
VloW coold you 
do ThiS afTer' 
all X Taiy^KT \ 
vnul /
FN yilWhtnvWS oryou yys 
a ce roo.pin3 
o- bij misis-K
X i
Po^erF^' /
prieoc)5. /
f too Coo .
We ae 
y<jjr 
FovJef\FW 
Friend*
AS I SAT "THEBC, KADIE APPBAR6D. SHO WAS 
IclND OP uoouina Cla r^e, sif sed.1r dn ei1 
gMogo St uMNwp ct N9 90Mot cM M6 AA mFp
I WAS SITTING AU1W6 AT A COFFEE 5HoP A 
Fw DAYS AGO, TURNING THOUGHTS 0VR IN
m hdirp x wAt v 11r ln eITd"HuEp
Colu js
UKaT \/0U
Vra^hT 
J \ roe  y
9CtB6 9 ,cFcoBptKMoDKP i1 e"sa"1r STER1N& 
TUB CONVeRSATION TOWAAbS HER mR6Oh9Tp
Lire. sueseAN "H TllW ^1aG oePfeaseD.
X SAT FRu-teM. r CC.ULD see WHAT WAS 
COMTHG, BDT XT HAPpfjeo Si> OUICK.UY. 
SHe5 weveR. done that before...
 F6UT TRAPPED. I PIDN'T ISwotw HOW 
To ResroWO. SHe NEAftLV BRiJKE DuWM CI6HT 
THEfte, BUT... x THINK SHE NEEDED XT./'leanwhile/Pon'T you Ter'iemier- \ 
I havO vJe used To
-T Sio^l "rrane zoomm/ 
\^> The <'oundT/<s 
Dcw^Voh v/ery weii!
ji^-^LXYoU Can Ha'/e SWr^ /i\ one r^o<~i
* j ?(^^X^Tfcsdj, 
_nr7^~-J ac|,<1 I J i5 Pinrf
oici.y
THANK &
meo-n, you 0
rw w/iseTicKeTS To Da.'Oe1'blt,f ore iQ.ooa credir peC\(TH<>vJ wtouT J37
-j p\\\ fooSM' X Ty 
VHjetJef hearty
1 of ir- y foii
oilerpricedJoubT UcT. Nova 
See To ir TWPf/.Son r)/>s/S 9t K6BP dh hG SeAT roK. A VMHIUC, WLIFE 
SoXN&fRAZY IN fftoM1" MS . CHC WEEDS 
So<*eoME MOW. XT'S AIWT ll'30Ive^oT Tg<&.
SHE OT V6RV FTDOET V /OLOP TH SUDOS/J 
AUt> SAID SHE WAt>To 6o. 3Hff SA> SoMETriJW ABOUT *&0IN6 To WtfKic 0UP6R HER BfiCAJH.
SuOOEKJUY, AS SHe WAS MAklWl A Quick. 
GESTURE WITH H6R HANO< SHE HIT HE. nuCIT SHATTERED WHEW IT HIT THE FLOoR.i i/'jii KovJ 1 y 
T^iS paro erb lap 7/\^Y\\ Beet S^J 
W v^efe aT y 
FooSblix/ /Ato Wooder
^ r-------7 ke loopei/
  /____________/ find oF
/ / unCOKifo^'
r I n-blC When
cbNh leFr
f T^is >5 
N c/ 
wlhe
/ The hecK 
/ ar-e Wfi 
3nnq 3&T 
money 7
assume 
youie inf 
eSted 1 
The I'fC 
5Jppo<'i'i opti onrj  mmatu
7V,aT5 3UST The 5pce5Viif. MovJ 3D,rl3 5omeujhere, ThoCT e^PenSM
y~ri]A. A ihad S0<"e
Bob, Oon-t t 
eaTTUT
NOT To f^Y READR(Si: THi5 15 thl Chm>uologicall.v last strip ikjaseries f sfRipi vjkich Co^PRise thc 
Stop-Y /\ a Whole. Tue fcST WILL 8e IN THE PR.Pft 0RD6- F&D BAcai ALU/AYS AfPRGCjA^S. - C.
The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  2 February 1998 L5

---------------------------------------------------

L6The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  2 February 1998
by Jim Meddick
n=y6AV JY'S WNMIM6 ...CAN'T 60 OKII V4AITIN6 FOR SUtTOO INSPIRATIONAL 
I VIVSIOU TO REWI&NKTC. ME....
APPLYINGmo we 
FsTdGtRFfATEPPA COTTAis EASIER 
\ t1yh u2nNJHIklK...
HfSP YfCEKPHhe
\FY0UCMm0Mt 
YOURSELF, HOW Cuti OTHERS LOVEYOUYou ARE &01N& 
To UAVE SEVERAL 
NEAJJ-DEATU 
EXPERIENCES 
OVER TUE NEXT 
TWo WEEKS...
W / Ott.VJO.'HOT > 
/ w Rowws! 
spi someone. tuse, j ...ok-wan keno?\.
0 WKY SAlBOft...
i UNVONie 6-user..
\NUEN 
CLAIRVOYANTS 
FEEL P.M.S. 
CoKMNG. ON
0199B Wllev
mi.mujaviessMLW 
DIRTY TRICK PAilP OFF...
mno uEoeoufDgH
\PATHETIC MESS'.. j
Wffl, IT CAN'T END THIS V5$\' WAY! THE 8M7 SW CAN'T 
VAN! THIS IS AMERICAN V? ^TOP CULTURE/!! /
d 9' G21HuWynHp 9
- I) ___\ M.MOST TORoT. )
OUCH! UM HANDS
REALLY UURT FW(A 1ST THAT BE Pi 
, IHTTINS YOU SO 16SS0W FOP -/OU.
s^wiiCH...
hlr1a uou of
UERo WoROilP
VB=K
 WOHPEPX WS 9E6N 45 MINUTtS. 
IF IT'S LETS)OUTAW> CHECK- VI0RKIH6. A-^--------------------
I'M ONLY HOPlNS\ NOW THAT CM- \ MESS IS EASIER TO HOSE OFF THANtitmouse w . 
V MESS- fg%>
TUFTED TITMICE LIKE TO NEST 
IN THE CARPORT AND MESS OH 
THE CAR. THIS DECOY OWL WILL 
SCARE THEIA MAY...
So You AND YoUR 
GIRLFRIEND FIGUT 
ALL TUE TIME, EU? 
WELL, TUEN 
MAYBE IT'S TIME 
YoU KIDS &oT 
MARRIED...
TUE DIVORCE 
MToRNEY 
NFTER UoUR4
Cl998 Wiley MlUer / dist. by The E-mail: wjleyftwileytoons.comington Post Writers Gr 
i Site: www.wileytoons.W'- VllsK
NUATSTUKr?"^ (WHAt'SWrtAT?
TH\S...TVtlS 
PIC& OF 
PAPER 
ST1CTON& . WT OF...
'MANO. A NEW,
Ivyfvyh0W I2v rWhEPEEL 8A0K FLA?...
OU W9 FIGHT. 
THE ADTWN& WON'T WORK.
OK...
TUE RESOLUTION 
DECLARING. MEN 
ABSOLUTELY WRoN& 
ABoUT EVERYTHING 
PASSES.
NEXT ISSUE... 
SUoULD MEN BE 
ALLOWED sA RtyT. 
3RR lpplFTc222
CAW
EXPLAIN.
vn=y
0H,100K.THETERM\HAT0RivS ON.0yh '/ou iNA&tue pI t1W IntnvW yS
KEAU.Y LM& THE TERMINATOR'S FUTURE
1WsW computers aw? androidsfcOMIMME THE WORLD AMP HUMANS 
become- w embattled minority.?. .
Sop SAlwMlKfc ON IME SOFA CUSHIONS.WoLLYWooDP/\NU/\NDLIN&
option mm[
 pour Hm Basca on h5 
HERD RND LRU&H 
* 1ER0 RN&RtllD UPR\5\N& 
RNB BANISH HUmRNS TO 
MRRTIRN PENRLC0LPNtE5 
aSUBSTITUTE 005CQ UilTHl ItUKElURRm 5DV 5RUCE | 
ENTER]
I ERROR I 
 OPTION SELECTED IN 
V10LRT1QN OF ROBOT 
COmiPRND 1R:"0BEV 
HUniRNS11 
jRETRVl 
ERROR
tnofnx 
IT4 m l4 
' IretrV!
ROeoiM^M! Ycowymfe1-WUERE'S AY \ WS.T ^ HOT BOSCO / tMNVTE! 
, m IA\iK?! /s' ^
V4UAT TOOK \00 SO 10M&?I WAS 
IpoMlN OUT ^ SOFTWApfc 
&UTCV\-
vmya
Ca lendr.L IOa o T. Lewis
...i MmrBE A SCIENTIST P0IN6 SECRET RESEARCH ON ENERGY 
CONS5RVA TlOH AS IT RELATES TO SHORT-TERM 
MEMORY LOSS.
OKAV, I'LL BITE...HOWS IT GOING?
i HOW'S / 0 WHAT / j GOING?
OK, VERNE... HOW DYOU K.NOW IP^/VTHAVEA CAREER?...
I STAND CORRECTED.I'VE &RUISEP MV KNEES ENOUGH FOR ONE PA'f, THANK YOU.
&HAK!...CLUCK-CLUCK!.CHICKE-E-N-NUDONT FEEL LIKE YOU CAN COMPETE WITH AIR VERNE'?
YA CHICKEN?.THERES SO MUCH ABOUT ME YOU DONT a KNOW.FiPNK!^
HRE IH GUACAtlOLE^JH
I^^but rn ou^ tCAe DNu- DESja2
IVE GOT SOME WEASEL JERKY.BEHOLD, THE WINNERS OF THE EVOLUTIONARY SWEEPSTAKES!
AIR VERNE DRIVES 
THE LANE.'
HIS PATENTED LOLLING TONGUE HANGS OUT TO ONE SIDE'...HE TAKES Off AND....'
mOOFH AREKNOWNTOR
UHOOP! SPORTSMANSHIP 
UHOOP!
SHOULD WE MIX SURF AND TURF?
WAM(SURVIVAL OF i THE THICKEST.
FfrtiiOiU'5l-O
7^ VERNE, ^ OLD POOP...THE "TITANIC WAS ALL ABOUT MANS ARROGANCE IN THE FACE OF NATURE.
THINKTHEYLLEVERLEARN?
VERNE, IFI WANT TO WELL...WHAT AREBE A GREAT YOUR PLAYING B-BAU/ST, CHARACTERISTICS? 
I GOTTA HAVE A NICKNAME1 [
I'M SMALL 
BUT FAST/...IN YOUR FACE/... UNDER YOUR SKIN/...
AND I'LL SUCK THE B-LOOP R/HT OUT OF 
YA/....
...BUT... I'M...NOT TOO... GOOD...ON DEFENSE.
&OINK.
BOINK.
FRED, THE WOOD i TICK!.'

---------------------------------------------------

DIVERSIONS
Volume 92, Issue 15The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania2 February 1998
Re-use old favorites
Avid collectors bargain-hunt for music
Bookstores add chapter to literary lifespan
By EMILY LANDES
Tartan Staffwriter
What is it about used bookstores that 
make them so far superior to retail 
book stores? Perhaps its the musty 
smell of old paper and ink that have 
been said to have the same exhilarat
ing effect on literary junkies that the 
whiff of a good cigarette has on a smoker, 
perhaps its the romanticism of scour
ing the shelves to find a lost treasure.
Townsend Booksellers offers a free search 
service, appraisals, and used books.
Perhaps its the idea of patronizing a 
private entrepreneur rather than a face
less corporation. Or perhaps, the thrill 
of a used bookstore is that it is personal
ized for each customer while simulta
neously having something for everyone.
Some people come to used bookstores 
looking for a good deal. In fact, most 
stores have a Bargain Rack where 
penny-pinchers can walk away with a 
hardcover book, for which the retail price 
might have been $30, for only one or two 
dollars. Most paperbacks placed on these 
racks sell for even less, anywhere from a 
quarter to 75 cents. However, books 
placed in these racks are usually there 
for a reason  nobody wants them. While 
Im sure there must be a market some
where for Tunisia  A Vacation Guide, 
which graced the Bargain Rack of one 
used bookstore I visited, most people 
simply arent interested.
However, even regularly priced used 
books are significantly less than what 
they would have been new. In Calibans 
Bookshop on South Craig Street, a copy 
of Stephen Kings best seller Despera
tion, which sells for eight dollars new, is 
only three dollars. Prices vary, of course. 
Stores such as Bryn Mawr-Vassar Book
store on Winthrop Street, which raises 
money for college scholarships at those 
universities, tend to have lower prices 
because all of their books are donated 
and all of their sales assistants are vol
unteers. Booksellers often compromise 
between space, locations and price, but 
there is hardly ever a used bookstore 
patron who walks away having paid
more than half of the original price.
I think all our books are sold fairly, 
said Neil Townsend, owner of Townsend 
Booksellers, also located on South Craig. 
Everybody wants a good deal, whether 
its a book or a collectible.
Collectibles actually make up a large 
portion of used book sales; about half, 
according to Townsend. Collectibles are 
generally classified as first-edition cop
ies of renowned out-of-print books. Used 
bookstores can be a great source for 
collectibles, but be prepared to pay quite 
a bit for these literary treasures. 
Calibans, for example, is happy to pro
vide its customers with a first edition 
copy of Rousseaus Social Contract, as 
long as its customers are happy to pro
vide them with nearly $2,000.
For this reason, few students have 
either the time or the inclination to buy 
collectibles. Id never buy one, said 
Meghan Tibbitts, a freshman art ma
jor, I dont have that sort of money to 
spend. Plus, I could buy the 54th edi
tion, and it would still be the same 
book. Therefore used bookstores whose 
customer base is made up of a high 
number of students, such as Stop, Book, 
and Listen on Highland Avenue in 
Shadyside, dont usually carry col
lectibles. Owner Walt Peachman said 
that colectibles dont serve his clientele.
While it may not have collectibles, 
Stop, Book, and Listen does have pro
grams such as poetry readings, folk gui
tarists, speakers, and other events which 
are fast becoming mainstays at used 
Please see BOOKS, page L8
All photos this page oy Lisette Miiier-Dixon/ i^artan uarKroom Manager 
At the Caliban Bookshop on South Craig Street, book collectors can find over 12,000 
volumes. The shops emphasis is on literary first editions and rare or scholarly books.
By SHARMILA 
VENKATASUBBAN
Tartan Contributing 
Editor
Shopping for music 
can be a costly and dis
appointing experience, 
especially if youre look
ing for older or more 
obscure picks. The best 
finds arent usually 
found on the shelves of 
chain record stores  
smaller music shops 
that are scattered 
throughout Pittsburgh 
house some of the best 
selections of older mu
sic and new music at 
cheaper prices. The 
trick to getting your 
moneys worth is know
ing how and where to 
look in Pittsburgh.
Only about one-third 
of my music is bought 
new, said Patrick 
Randerson, a junior 
physics major and the
music director at WRCT. In fact, 
the reason Im sitting here today 
is because I found an old Pixies 
CD for $3. Thats when I started 
getting involved in non-commer
cial music.
Of course, your luck depends 
on what youre looking for, but 
there are some useful tips out 
there to help you find whatever 
music, new or old, that you cur
rently covet.
Dont set your sights on one 
item in particular and then scav
enge record stores in search of it: 
Its like watching a pot that never 
boils. The key is to browse as 
often as you can.
Frequenting music stores on a 
regular basis will give you a bet
ter feel for what individual shops 
carry and what kind of prices 
they offer.
Pauls Music [on Forbes Av
enue] is usually pretty selective 
about what they buy back, but 
what that means is that they 
have good stuff, said Doug 
Mosurak, a senior technical 
writing major. Other Oakland 
shops such as Brave New World 
located on Craig Street, and 
Daves on Forbes Avenue offer 
good music, but according to 
junior materials science engi
neering major Neil Donnelly, 
you have to look hard. Some of 
the music at Daves is suspect, 
but you can find good stuff some
times, said Donnelly.
Its better to enter a store with 
ten or 12 CDs in mind  youre 
more likely to find something  
and if you dont thats OK, said 
Randerson. I think its fun. Ill 
go shopping for hours and not 
buy anything. Ill just check out 
all the music that Ill never own.
Trade in your unwanted music, 
but beware  chain music stores 
are ai bad place to recycle. They 
usually only give store credit, 
which rarely rivals the cost of a 
new CD.
Most chains wont accept 
promos or music from CD or 
record clubs, so its harder to find 
bargains at such places, said 
Mosurak.
If youre looking to buy and
sell, stores that display a lot of 
older selections are probably the 
best places to go. Pauls and 
Daves are good places to sell old 
CDs, as is as Record-Rama on 
McKnight Road.
Most avid collectors of older 
music suggest investing in vinyl. 
If you want your moneys worth, 
buy a turntable, then go to 
Jerrys, said Mosurak. Records 
tend to cost less, especially if 
youre willing to trade.
Jerrys Music Market in Squir
rel Hill is the one of the only 
places in Pittsburgh that will still 
buy records. According to em
ployee John Evans, the running 
word is that i f Jerry doesnt want 
it, no one does. Most records run 
between $3 to $4. They pay in 
cash, but offer more for trades.
You can find some high-price 
record stores, but you can prob
ably get more bang for your buck 
here, Evans said.
Although Jerrys bins overflow 
with vinyl (its a great place to do 
some serious browsing), theyre 
in need of good reggae, soul, and 
jazz if youre willing to unload it. 
What we dont want is any more 
classic rock from the 70s and 
80s, said Evans. We have too 
much, since thats what people 
were buying at the time. Some 
good 60s rock, or oddballs like 
Frank Zappa  were always 
looking for the kind of stuff that 
never sold.
Dont setup camp outside mu
sic stores to buy new CDs as 
soon as theyre released  wait 
three weeks. Most music is 
bound to show up in the used 
stores for a cheaper price. Or 
you can keep a lookout for 
promos a week before the CD 
comes out, said Randerson. 
You can usually get a good deal 
that way.
Ive never really found any
thing that Ive been really 
psyched about [at used music 
stores!, said Donnelly. But my 
luck may be different because I 
havent looked around as much 
as I should. Youve got to be will
ing to spend the time and get 
dirty to find good music.
CD Trader is an independent music store on South Craig Street that deals in used CDs at low prices.
trades all types of music.Located over a large-scale music store, Daves Music Mine buys, sells, and

---------------------------------------------------

L8The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  2 February 1998
Mid-Winter Sale!
Save on everything 
in the store!
Three days only:Friday, Feb. 6 \^V!> Saturday, Feb. 7Sunday, Feb. 8 *
^AhDYSinp
B0e0xtpertfg Open daily
SKlANDBIK^
804 S. Aiken Ave. Shadyside (412)683-9600
Album revisits past 
hip-hop influences
Vintage jeans spark creative flair
By PALAK SHAH
Tartan Staffwriter
These days it seems as if East Coast 
rap is orientated towards high-price 
glamour that weve become accustomed 
to seeing in rap videos. All the brand 
name clothes and high-priced cars seem 
to distract us from what the music is all 
about  the lyrics. GP Wu has come out 
with an album titled Dont Go Against 
the Grain, which returns us to the hiphop of the past.
Who: GP WU
What: Don't Go Against The Grain 
Company: MCA
The album reminds me of the hardcore 
lyrics and rhyme we had seen in the first 
Wu-Tang Clan album. Although both 
groups are from the same part of New 
York, known as Shaolin, on the borough 
of Staten Island, they are quick to draw 
the difference between the two styles 
of rap.
Listening to the album makes me real
ize that KRS Ones cries for the real hiphop have been answered by this group. 
Originally freestyle rhymers, the four 
members combination is powerful. The 
Down Low Recka produced most of the 
album and added the instrumental back
grounds that create a master blend of
beats to accompany the rap. 
Rubberbandz, June Luva, Pop da Brown 
Hornet, and The Down Low Recka per
form masterfully on the title song Dont 
Go Against the Grain, which contains a 
nice piano, blended with beats in the 
background. Hit Me with that Shit 
was the first single that was released 
from the album, and it gives a listener a 
good dose of what the album is all about. 
Party People, another song off of their 
single, in my opinion was one the only 
songs on the album which had a hip-hop 
party music type beat. However, DJs 
now have the ability to turn anything 
into party music. Their freestyle lyrics 
from the Stapleton Houses on Staten 
Island are reminiscent of the playground 
battles that members of my generation 
only wonder about.
If the purpose of this album was to 
return the hip-hop industry back to the 
days of street rhymes by Rakim and 
Run-DMC, this album undeniably gets 
the job done. However, if youre looking 
for the mainstream hip-hop pop culture 
which we have grown accustomed to in 
this day and age, Dont Go Against The 
Grain is not the album for you. Remem
ber, however, that there hasnt been 
such a lyric-orientated album since the 
days of the Wu-Tang Clan in 1993, and 
its refreshing to return to the past 
with GP Wu.
Secondhand stores provide high fashion for thrifty people
By BECCA FRIBUSH
Tartan Forum Editor
How do I love thee, secondhand 
clothing stores? Let me count the 
ways. One is for your studentfriendly price range. Where else 
could I outfit myself for a week 
for less than the price of one chem
istry textbook? Two is for your 
one-of-a-kind clothing. No mat
ter what I buy, theres no way Im 
going to find someone else wear
ing exaotly the same thing. Three 
is for the thrill of the hunt. Its 
infinitely more satisfying to find 
that perfect sweater in the midst 
of all sorts of unorganized, unre
lated pieces of clothing than it is 
to be ambushed by it the second 
you walk into your local depart
ment store.
Thrift shops in Pittsburgh run 
the gamut from Crimes of Fash
ion, which veritably bursts with 
stylish vintage clothing from the
1960s and 1970s, to non-profit 
stores with a grab-bag assort
ment of clothes for cheaper than 
a package of ramen noodles. There 
are advantages to each. Stores 
with a hand-picked selection of 
clothing save the buyer time. 
[Secondhand clothing shops] are 
less expensive than new stores, 
and a lot of the things they have 
are similar, with the 1970s-type 
clothing they brought back.... You 
can come here and find 10 good
things, as opposed to maybe one 
thing at a Goodwill after a lot of 
searching, said Tim Stanisz, 
owner of Crimes of Fashion on 
Forbes Avenue.
At Crimes of Fashion, you can 
expect to spend $10 to $15 for 
each of those 10 things if they 
happen to be shirts, $18 to $20 if 
theyre pants.
If you dont mind a bit of search
ing, non-profit stores such as 
Goodwill on Liberty Avenue, the 
Operatunity Shop on Atwood 
Street in Oakland, and the Na
tional Council of Jewish WomenCouncil Thrift Shop on Fifth Av
enue uptown offer real bargain 
prices. The Operatunity Shop and 
the Council Thrift Shop special
ize in upscale brands so if you 
visit one of these stores, you may 
be fortunate enough to pick up 
clothing by Brooks Brothers, 
Ralph Lauren, or Ann Taylor for 
wonderfully tiny prices. All three 
of these stores offer clothing start
ing at $3 or $4, along with an 
array of furniture and household 
goods. Such stores also let you
feed your conscience while you 
shop. The proceeds from their 
sales go to worthy causes. Good
will donates to an array of .pro
grams designed to help otHers, 
the Operatunity Shop supports 
the Pittsburgh Opera, and the 
Council Thrift Shop helps rfimd 
such projects as the anti-breast 
cancer Race for the Cure.
Yet whichever of these thrift 
shops you visit, youre nearly guar
anteed to go home with a wad of 
extra money in the pocket of your 
brand-new Secondhand pants.
Tomorrow's technology is something that frames all our thinking at 
today's Rockwell Automation. Because if you only focus on today's 
technology, you'll end up totally out of the competitive picture a 
few years from now.
Zoom in on us. We're looking for the visionaries, dreamers and 
non-stop creative thinkers who are changing the way the world 
controls things - from roller coasters and Broadway shows to 
pharmaceutical production and food processing. Join the people of 
today's Rockwell and get a close-up view of tomorrow.
See Rockwell Automation at:Carnegie Mellon University 
On-Campus Presentation: February 10,1998 
On-Campus Interview: February 11,1998
Check your placement office for locations.
Check out our website at www.ra.rockwell.com/careers/college
Together, creating a better working world.
Book stores offer rare treasures
BOOKS, from page L7
bookstores. It would seem that 
many used book store patrons 
are entranced by this added bo
nus to their shopping.
A lot of people come in to look 
around and end up staying for 
the acts, said Peachman. Other 
stores dont have readings but 
do offer writing workshops to 
their patrons, under the reason
able assumption that most of 
their clientele are interested in 
literary endeavors.
However, students trying to get 
rid of any other books will find 
most used bookstores happy to 
buy them. Some places are more 
selective than others, but most 
will accept a book in good shape 
that they have a reasonable 
chance of being able to sell for
cash or credit, depending on the 
store policy. The going rate 
for a book seems to be about 
one-half to one-third of what 
the seller hopes to get for it, 
with credit usually receiv
ing a higher price than 
cash.
Whether they have collectibles or bargain 
books, poetry readings 
or writing workshops, 
all the bookstores I 
visited agreed on one 
thing  no textbooks, 
to the dismay of those try
ing to avoid shelling out $80 
or $90 for a biology book.
We dont carry textbooks. 
They just get outmoded too 
quickly, said Madeline Half, a 
volunteer at BrynMawr-Vassar.
'hotos this page Anthony Chao/Tartan Photo Editor
From top left: Sophomore history and 
policy major Meghan Barke tries on a 
pair of old jeans that could use a 
makeover. Meghan often makes her 
own clothes. She cuts fabric in triangle 
shapes to make boot-cut flairs. Adding 
patches purchased at a store in Oakland, 
the finished product is a far cry from a 
basic pair of Levis. The patches cost 
less than $3.50, and are an inexpensive 
way to add detail when re-doing clothes. 
The fabric, taken from a 70s dress, 
costs $15 dollars at a secondhand store. 
Total cost for this project: $18.50, with 
plenty of fabric left over to make some 
velvet pillows.
Neil Babra/Tartan Art Staff
4L* Rockwell Automation
 Allen-Bradley gAwvvro

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  2 February 1998L9
W* 1(1% HIIICOPIIR TIXTION :
yMAUR ENNEcGAHyGL yasEGyc at
By HEATHER J. DENYER
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
What would you get if you crossed Air 
Force One with an extra-long episode of ER? 
The result would look a lot like this movie. 
Barbet Schroeder, the director, must have 
had some fine intentions in mind in co-producing and directing the movie. He attempted 
to make an insightful action flick about the 
psychoanalysis of the sickest mind on earth 
and of a devoted father. But Schroeders end 
result fails miserably on all accounts.
What: Desperate Measures 
Director: Barbet Schroeder 
Company: Mandalay
The film is advertised as a 
modern-day Frankenstein, mak
ing a true person out of a mon
ster and a monster out of an 
honest man. Schroeder claims 
to be original, but this is a tactic 
which has been tried many times 
before. Schroeder is neither cre
ative in his approach nor 
competent in realizing his goals.
In the end, the film does not even 
approach the amount of sub
stance which Schroeder claims 
to have intended.
At the start of the film,
Luciano Tovoli, the director of 
photography, creates the sin
ister mood appropriate for a 
dark film. He plays with angu
lar shots which add more sus
pense. The director makes the 
first few scenes 
devoid of color, 
thus establishing 
the contrast between light and 
dark essential to Schroeders 
grand theme. The background 
shots of Keaton in the prison 
and of Garcia as a policeman 
appear to set up an introduc
tion to two intriguing charac
ters. But in actuality, the mys
terious opening builds up 
to nothing.
After the first few scenes ex01998 Mandalay Entertainment ploiting Frank Conners 
Michael Keaton portrays prisoner Peter McCabe. (Garcias) love and Peter
only person compatible with his son for the McCabes (Keatons) controlling mind, the 
transplant is a murderer serving life, per- movie disintegrates to nothing more than 
formed by Michael Keaton. Its an interesting Schroeder going a little too far with his own 
plot, but unfortunately, thats all there is to it. enjoyment of action sequences.
The story is of a cop, played by Andy Garcia, 
who must locate a bone marrow donor in-order 
to save his son, who is dying of cancer. The
Andy Garcia (right) plays police officer Frank Connor.
Be warned against entering the movie antici
pating romance from Andy Garcia or impres
sive characterization abilities from Michael 
Keaton, for you will be greatly disappointed.
Garcias renowned sex appeal comes across 
beautifully when he is playing opposite a 
woman as in Dead Again or in When a Man 
Loves a Woman, but Garcias character here 
is a devoted father. Because he can only be 
sexy next to a little boy, Garcia becomes 
perverse and awkward. Keaton, a Pittsburgh 
native, is thought to portray psychotic char
acters well  and the same is expected of him 
in Desperate Measures. However,after 
such diverse roles in Beetlejuice, The Dream 
Team, and Batman, his part here is nothing 
but old hash.
By BRADLEY ZIMMERMAN
Tartan Staffwriter
I love propaganda. Critics have 
given out so many new category 
names to genre-benders like 
Portishead and Moby that its 
become easy to bullshit the pub/fci Who: Porcupine Tree 
Kl What: Signify
Company: Delirium
lie about what their ears are ac
tually experiencing. For instance, 
Englands Porcupine Tree, re
gardless of what they say to the 
contrary in their press kit, are 
little more than retread 70s progrock, and bad prog-rock at that.
Porcupine Tree has added two 
more members, allowing them
selves the requisite prog-rock 
power-trio lineup on their latest
album Signify. These Brits are 
apparently hedging their bets 
that theyll be considered so un
fashionable that theyll become 
fashionable.
For a bit of backstory for the 
uninitiated, prog-rock is short 
for progressive rock. Starting 
innocently in the 
late60s and com
ing to full bloom 
in the mid to late 
70s, the move
ment was ear
marked by non
standard time 
signatures, epic 
tales of mythic 
heroes, a touch of science fiction 
at times, and a lot of wanky 
MOOG keyboard lines. Oh yeah, 
and a lot of drug references. In 
the beginning, it was interesting 
due to the jazzy textures of King
Crimson and the spacy experi
mental meanderings of 
Ummagumma-era Pink Floyd, 
but it quickly died with the selfindulgence of Yes, ELP, Queen, 
and countless others who made 
the rebellion of punk necessary.
Porcupine Tree attempts to upTheNewFaceofAerospace.
Signify, a twelve-track throwaway, 
had me picking Dark Side of the 
Moon references out of my hair 
like a nasty case of lice. 
date these dated concepts on Sig
nify, a twelve-track throwaway 
which had me picking Dark Side 
of the Moon rferences out of my 
hair like a nasty case of lice. A lazy 
lounge-bass here, an orchestral 
synth there, mega-reverbed vo
cals fading in and out of the back
ground  and its all wrapped up 
in such modern conceptions as 
tape loops and 50s public address 
samples. We have Pagan, an 
exercise in low-fi ambient deep 
space textures, and Waiting 
Phase One, which is complete 
with postmodern concepts like 
misanthropic lyrics, CSNY vocal 
harmonies, and a wacky wah-wah 
guitar solo. Ooh! Looky here! 
Waiting Phase Two features 
more ambient textures and (gasp) 
jungle percussion.
Bleep bloop beep beep. On 
Sever we have six synths fakBe Upwardly Mobile.
Imagine being part of a select team that sets the pace for 
the entire vertical-lift industry. At Bell, the opportunities are 
wide open. See why so many top aerospace professionals 
wouldn't work anywhere else. There's never been a better 
time to get your career off the ground, To learn about 
opportunities in Finance, MIS, Engineering as well 
as other areas, send your resume to:
Bell Helicopter Textron Inc, 
P.O. Box 901014, Dept. ER-IN 
Fort Worth, Texas 76101 
www.bellhelicopter.textron.com
Bell Helicopter
TEXTRON
A Subsidiary of Textron Inc,
ing six different instruments, 
along with a doomy guitar and 
more vocal harmonies. No ex
pense was spared sucking all the 
emotion out of these songs in the 
studio. What signs of life there 
are in sections of Idiots Prayer 
are compromised by cheesy at-------------------- mo spheric
breaks and the 
type of forcedv 
feeling usually' 
reserved for gui
tar solo albums 
a la Steve Vai. 
Among other 
 low points too
numerous to 
mention are the lyrics to the oth
erwise fine Every Home is 
Wired,in which the technophobe 
narrator falls back on cliches like 
electric teenage dust/ hit the sol
vent keypad/ start the neural 
rust. Kinda like having Dad 
prove how with it he is by wear
ing vinyl pants  and sandals.
The press kit mentions the 
bands quest for a place alongside 
Aphex Twin. I dont see it. I am a 
Rush fan, and Signify embarasses 
me. There are bands still around 
who try to make intelligent mu
sic in this vein, such as Dream 
Theater and many more in the 
branch of indie known as math 
rock. Signify doesnt even qualify 
as background music. Porcupine 
Tree has delivered us 62 minutes 
of uninspired, self-important assembly-line retro wank. Pass the 
lubriderm, mate.
You've 9<>;xihin9 It takasacademic achievement, drive, and the knowledge yovro Just Itching to lot fly. As a 53.8 billion global powerhouse, Harris gives graduates real-world responsibilities right Out of the gate.
Come to Our Information Session on Sunday, February 75, 1998 from 7:OOpm-SkOOpm. We will also be conducting on-campus Interviews on Mondayifcbruary 1&1998 from 9&0am-430pm. Pi&tse contact your Career Services Cen ter for details.
 COMPUTER ENGINEERS
 SYSTEMS ENGINEERS
 COMPUTER SCIENCE 
 MECHANICAL ENGINE
 ELECTRICA!. ENGINEERS
 BUSINESS/fJNANCE/ACCOUNTlHO
 MIS/CIS
- CHEMICAL ENGINEERS
 INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERS
Haris offers graduates global exposure to a real-world arena, generous opportunities for professional growth, the technologies and resources to enhance your talents, and the compensation, benefits and rewards you'd peel from a Fortuno 500 company. If you cannot attend, please forward your resume, Indudmg sovrco tod IHCNEWS, to: Harris Corporation, RO. Box 37, Maitslop 2-1394, Melbourne, FL 32902-0037; Fax: (407) 729-1858; or Email: ra9umbaShoirU.com (Resumes must be In ASCII format) K; 
equal oppbitrvy (wnpoye* cfedscavsd D y AVF/D/V,
POWER UP  www.harris.com/ceElego
HARRIS
Poor casting plagues action film
Prog-rock album covers old territory
DH 2210
movies you may have seen before....
By GREG MARCKS
Thursday, February 5
Breathless
Invest your money in foreign trade, and one of 
these days you will make a profit. (Ecclesiastes 11:1) 
Figs. 2-186 through 2-191show a series of jump 
Cuts from Godards first feature, Breathless (1959, 
rel. 1960). The hero (Jean-Paul Belmondo) is driv
ing down a country road, and he is impatient to pass 
jny vehicles that happen to get in his way. In the 
first shot (Figs. 2-186 and 2-187) he passes a white 
car; the view is through his windshield. Then there 
18 a jump cut to the second shot (Figs. 2-188 and 2- 
189), whdeh shows his passing a gasoline truck. By 
the position of the trees, it is clear that the driving 
tjpie between the two passes has been deleted. 
(Bruce Kawin, How Movies Work, p. 231)
Flying dogs would be cool.
n'At 8,10 pm, and midnight 
_In McConomy
JB >
Friday, February 6
House of Yes
' Whoever curses his father or mother is to be put to 
"death(Deuteronomy 22:10)
.When you write about the movies, personal feel
ings, expectations, and reactions may be the beginHing of an intelligent critique, but they must be 
Balanced with rigorous reflection on where those 
feelings and expectations and reactions come from 
and how they relate to more objective factors con
cerning the movie in question: its place in film 
history, its cultural background, its formal strate
gies. (Timothy Corrigan, A Short Guide to Writing 
About Film, p. 15)
' 'One time I ate an entire stick of butter.
At 7:30, 10 pm, and 12:30 am 
In McConomy
Saturday, February 7
Kiss the Girls
No man is to have sexual relations with another 
man; God hates that. (Leviticus 18:22)
I do think, however, that in detailing the certain 
tendency of the American Cinema, the formal and 
thematic paradigms that commercially successful 
films in this country have consistently used, I have 
made theoretical progress toward an understand
ing of cinematic popularity. (Robert B. Ray, A 
Certain Tendency of the Hollywood Cinema, 1930- 
.1980, p. 21)
Everybody likes big boobs.
At 7:30,10 pm and 12:30 am 
In McConomy
Sunday, February 8
Black Shampoo
No man who has been castrated or whose penis 
has been cut off may be included among the Lords 
people. (Deuteronomy 23:1)
The metaphor of the camera-eye is constructed of 
synecdoches. That is to say, the eye and the camera 
are parts standing for the whole of their respective 
visual apparatuses. (William C. Wees, Light Mov
ing in Time: Studies in the Visual Aesthetics of 
Avant-Garde Film, p. 21)
I cant get my zipper down.
At 8, 10 pm, and midnight 
In McConomy
Name the Quote:
Yo, wassup wit tomorrow?
(Ride me, big Sheldon.  Billy Crystal in When 
Harry Met Sally)

---------------------------------------------------

Glory
will be playing at 8 pm 
on Tuesday in 
McConomy AutJrtorium.
Breathless
will be playing at 7:30,10 pm, 
and 12:30 am on Thursday in 
McConomy Auditorium.
Carpatl: 50 miles, 50 years
will be playing at 8 pm on 
Thursday and 7 pm on Sunday 
at the Carnegie Museum of Art.
House of Yes
will be playing at 7:30,10 pm. 
and 12:30 am on Friday in 
McConomy Auditorium.
Landscapes of Memory
will be playing at 8 pm on Friday 
*and2pm on Saturday at the 
Carnegie Museum of Art.
Hiss the Girls
will be playing at 7:30,10 pm, 
and 12:30 am on Saturday in 
McConomy Auditorium.
Gulmba the Tyrant
will be playing at 8 pm on 
Saturday and 7 pnron Sunday at
Black Shampoo
will be playing at 8,10 pm. 
and midnight on Sunday in 
McConomy Auciorium.
The Slingshot
will be playing at 1:30 pm on 
Sunday at the Beehive.
February 2, 1998teira'tyCALENDAR
February 8.1995
oncampus
H&SS Job Fair is taking place on Thurs
day from 10 am to 4 pm in the UC Gym. 
The job fair will enable students from 
H&SS to take a look into the many excit
ing, rewarding, and expanding fields open 
to a liberal arts major.
Senate. Everyone is invited to attend Sen
ate meetings during the semester. They 
will take place in Cooper Auditorium, in
side of Posner Hall, on February 11, March 
11, April 8, and May 6. All meetings begin 
at 3:30 pm.
Student Dormitory Council is having its 
next meeting this Wednesday at 7:30 pm 
in the Connan Room in the UC. Partici
pating in SDC enables interaction with the 
administration on campus issues and plan
ning campus events. For more information, 
contact Andy Sadhwani, SDC Public Rela
tions, at x2-3003.
Career Search is a Web-based product 
with a searchable database of over 700,000 ' 
potential employers that can be used to as
sist in finding contact information for job 
and internship searches. Career Search in
formation sessions will be held in the Ca
reer Center on February 2, 3, 11, 12, 16, 
18, and 25, all at 5 pm. For more informa
tion, go to the bboard cmu.careercenter. announce.
Slice of Life is a free conference presented 
by Carnegie Mellon alumni for students 
preparing to make the transition from cam
pus to career that will take place on Sat
urday from 11 am to 4 pm in the Univer
sity Center. The registration deadline is on 
Tuesday. Hard copy registrations may be 
dropped off at the Career Center until 7 
pm. For more information or to register,
, go to http:!'/www.andrew.emu.edu/~sarc.
German Kaffeestunde. Come practice 
your German in a relaxed, no-pressure 
environment while drinking Kaffee and 
eating Kuchen. The Kaffeestunde takes 
place every Tuesday afternoon from 3 to 
4:30 pm in Skibo Coffeehouse. For more 
information, contact Anne Green at x8- 
8050 or Stephen Brockman at x8-8055.
La Table Franaise will take place ev
ery Monday evening from 5:30 to 6:30 pm 
in Skibo Coffeehouse. Everyone is invited 
to come and speak French with other 
people. For additional information, contact 
the Department of Modern Languages or 
Professors Buttry or Rockmore.
La Mesa de Espanol. The Spanish Brown 
Bag Lunch and conversation hour will be 
held every Tuesday at 12:30 pm in Skibo 
Coffeehouse. Take advantage of this oppor
tunity to share in Spanish conversation. 
Speakers of all levels of Spanish are wel
come. For additional information, contact 
Professors Zulema Zattoni or Bladi Ruiz 
at x8-5669.
Health and Fitness Fest will take place 
in Rangos Hall on February 12 from 10 am 
to 4 pm. There will be vendors on hand to 
discuss home fitness equipment as well as 
a lot of holistic information about natural 
food choices and personal training.
Much Ado About Nothing will be per
formed by Scotch n Soda on Friday at 9 
pm, Saturday at 5 and 9 pm, and Sunday 
at 5 pm in Rangos Hall.
Groundhog)^ V
Groundhog Day originated in Germany where 
fanners used to predict the length of wmter by 
observance of small animals, specifically the badger. 
When some of these farmers immigrated to America, 
they brought the tradition with them. Due to a lack 
of badgers, groundhogs were substituted. 
Punxsutawney Phil,' located in the town of
Roman Catholic Mass takes place on 
Sundays at 10:30 am and 8 pm in Mellon 
Auditorium, Posner Hall. It also takes 
place daily at 12:30 pm in the UC Chapel. 
For further information, call the Ryan 
Catholic Newman Center at 681-3181.
Choral Compline will take place at the 
Heinz Chapel on Sunday evenings at 8:30 
pm. Mark B. Smith, of St. Basils Catholic 
Church, will be the guest organist this 
week and will be performing Epiphany 5.
Jewish Encounters. This event will be 
taking place today at Hillel-Jewish Uni
versity Center from 8:30 to 9:30 pm. For 
more informa
tion, call Natalie 
at 521-4603.
VOX pOpil lithe voice of the people
watching his shadow for 20 years straight
Jewish Prayers. Learn about the hows, 
whats, and whys of a Jewish service on 
Thursday at Hillel-Jewish University Cen
ter from 7 to 8:30 pm. For additional in
formation, call Warren at 648-2888.
Shabbat Service and Dinner will take 
place this Friday from 5 to 9 pm at the 
Rodef Shalom. For additional information, 
contact the Hillel-Jewish University Cen
ter at 621-8875.
Jewish Chinese Shabbat and Dinner
will take place on Friday. Services will take 
place at Hillel at 5:30 pm and dinner will 
be at 6:30 pm at the Lutheran University 
Center. RSVP to Hillel at 621-8875.
museums
One Womans Search for Humility is an
exhibition about Black History Month by 
local artist Lily Chang. The show will be 
on display in the UC Art Gallery through 
February 13. The UC Art Gallery is open 
from noon to 5 pm on weekdays.
Serendipity, a show featuring senior art
ists Erin Green, Surgei Kalinin, and Dana 
Smith, will be taking place from Wednes
day through Sunday at the Frame. There 
will be a reception on Friday from 7 to 9 
pm. For more information, call x8-2081.
Be Here Now, an installation by Philadel
phia artist Michael Grothusen, is on dis
play at the Hewlett Gallery from Thurs
day until February 27. There will be a re
ception at the gallery from 5 to 7 pm on 
Thursday. Grothusen tries to make the 
viewer aware of his or her presence in a 
space and his installations are site-specific 
dialogues between the structures and ma
terials, and the spaces they are in. Admis
sion is free. For more information, contact 
Petra Fallaux at x8-3877.
aroundtown
Breakfast with the Birds. Join National 
Aviary keepers on their morning rounds 
of feeding the birds on Feburary 14 at 8 
am. For more information, call Saul 
Straussman at 323-7235, ext. 216. Tb make 
reservations, call 323-7235, ext. 207.
Inspiration Quest. The Philosophical 
Self-Inquiry Discussion Group is sponsor
ing a weekend retreat on February 14 and 
15 for those interested in putting the magic 
of childhood back into their lives. Join oth
ers at the TAT Rural Retreat Center near 
Wheeling, W. Va. The cost is $20 per per
son including food and lodging. Reserva
tions, along with a $10 deposit, must be 
received by February 9. The trip is limited 
to 30 people. For more information, call the 
TAT Foundation at 464-1336.
Hillel Ice Skating and Sledding Win
ter Sports Day will take place on Sunday 
from 7 to 9 pm at Schenley Rink. Admis
sion and rental will cost $5. For pre-skating sledding, meet at Hillel at 6 pm. To 
RSVP, call Eva at 648-4255.
Courage will be the topic of the Phil0. 
sophical Self-Inquiry Discussion Groups 
discussion in the first floor conference room 
at the Carnegie Library at Forbes and 
Schenley at 7 pm today. People curious to 
learn more about themselves are invited 
to air their views and hear what others 
have to say.
music__________
Music on the Edge, featuring the Prism 
Players of New York, will perform new 
works by Pittsburgh composers on Saturday at 2 pm at the Carnegie Library of 
Pittsburgh Lecture Hall in Oakland. The 
performance will be followed by a panel dis-; 
cussion. Admission is free. For more infor- : 
mation, call 622-3105.
Paul Tabachneck will play in Skibo Cof
feehouse on February 18 from 10 pm to 
midnight. Copies of his new tape, Fluffys 
Operandi, can be purchased for $5 at the 
show. For more information, visit the Stone 
Soup website at http://srv.ml.org/ssoup or 
email paul@srv.ml.org.
La Forza d3Amore is a concert that will 
be presented by Chatham Baroque on Feb
ruary 13 and 15 at 8 pm and February 15 
at 3 pm at the James Laughlin Music Cen
ter at Chatham College. The program will 
feature guest artists Penelope Jensen, so
prano, and Deda Cristina Colonna, histori
cal dancer. Tickets are $8 for students and 
$12 otherwise. For additional information, 
call 365-1867.
Heinz Chapel Choir will host their sixth 
annual Choir Festival on February 15 at 3 
pm in the Heinz Memorial Chapel. The 
festival encourages and rewards excep
tional a cappella singing at the high school 
level. Admission is free. For additional in
formation, call 624-4125.
talks/readings
The Urban West: Broadening the Lens of 
African American History, Work, and So
cial Policy will be the focus of a presenta
tion by Quintard Taylor of the University 
of Oregon on Wednesday in the Singleton 
Room in Roberts Engineering Hall from 
5:30 to 7:30 pm.
Nazi films. Professor Sabine Hake of the 
University of Pittsburgh, one of the lead
ing experts on German film history, will 
be giving an advance presentation from her 
forthcoming book on Nazi film, At the Mov
ies: Film Audiences in the Third Reich on 
Friday at 3:30 pm in Porter Hall A18A. 
This talk is being sponsored by the Center 
for Cultural Analysis and there will be a 
reception after the talk.
Black History Month. Ken Keeling, De
partment Head of Music, will be speaking 
on Tuesday in the Connan Room from noon 
to 1 pm. Eugene Rudman, poet, will be ap
pearing at Skibo Coffeehouse on Wednes
day at 7 pm. These events are part of the 
ongoing month-long celebration.
"I need interns."
PHALLIC PAGES -studentBody T u
Punxsutawney30 minutes awayis relied
upon annually to give accurate readings
about his shadow. He has never really
seen his shadow. It's all just part
of the famous meteorologist
plot to rule the world.
No soup for you.
Is that my spaghetti?
 Mr. Boobalatti
I cant buy gray socks  
have to watch the State 
of the Union.
Banana Epanata
So, we were naked in the hot tub....
You can advertise for free In The Tartan!
What spice would you be?
We will not Taco Bell!
Someone pass me a blunt object...
Does Stan want hugs, Joanna? What matters is where you 
iMA/'ikii- start the killing.IMAGINEf you win ... 5
const size t MAX BAGGERS = 200;
If you know of an event on or off campus that has rel
evance to the campus community or people In general, email 
13We3dnsa23y-43 or mail it to The Tartan, Box 17 in the 
Carnegie Mellon University Center by the Wednesday before 
the Sunday before the event.
Vox Populi is a forum open to the entire campus commu
nity! To submit a vox, simply email it to 13We3dnsa23y-43, 
send it to The Tartan, Box 17 via campus mail, or drop it in 
the Vox Populi drop box on the ultra-quick Tartan Server.
Vox Populi has decided to host a bagger this weekend. 
Apparently, this victim is one headed for the CIT track whereas 
Mr. Vox would have preferred one heading for H&SS. Oh' 
well. Mr. Vox will have to make sure that Mr. Bagger gets 
what is coming to him, because Mr. Vox isn't allowed to 
host a her. That is just against the rules.
courtesy Columbia Pictures
Lauren Lamonica/Tartan Junior Staff
