Welcome to the real world...
orian mitn/iarian moto atari
Students attended the Business Opportunities Conference last Friday to explore career possibilities.
Student injured in bike crash
By JAYA SAXENA
Tartan Staffwriter
CMU student Ben Stollar suf
fered from a collapsed right lung 
from being hit by a car while 
riding a bicycle at the intersec
tion of Fifth and Morewood Av
enues at 10 pm last Wednesday.
Doctors at Presbyterian Hospi
tal have conducted a variety of 
tests on Stollar, including a CAT 
scan and x-rays, which have all 
shown normal results.
Im feeling fine. I have a chest 
tube in me which is a little uncom
fortable, but it doesnt hurt, said 
Stollar, a senior civil and environ
mental engineering major.
Stollar expects to be released 
this weekend.
The accident occurred when 
Stollar was riding his bike north 
on Morewood Avenue at a high 
rate of speed and rode into the
path of a Jeep Wagoneer that 
was traveling west on Fifth Av
enue. According to the police re
port, Stollar approached the in
tersection as the light was chang
ing, ran the red light on Morewood 
Avenue, and collided with the
to wear helmets, but the City of 
Pittsburgh as well as Campus 
Police officials highly encourage 
cyclists to use them as well.
Bicycle accidents are not that 
uncommon in the surrounding 
area, according to CMU police
Im feeling fine. I have a chest tube 
in me which is a little uncomfortable, 
but it doesnt hurt.
 Ben Stollar, senior civil and 
environmental engineering
car. N either the driver of the Jeep 
nor the only passenger in the car 
were seriously injured.
Stollar was not wearing a hel
met or any other protective gear 
at the time of the accident. Pitts
burgh law only requires children
officer Paul Helffrich. He said 
that most bicycle/car 
the past have involved 
sity of Pittsburgh students, 
ticularly in areas like the 
section of Schenley, Frew, 
Please see ACCIDENT,
Inside
Calendar.....;.......................................L14
Classified.............................................11
Comics..................................................L6
Diversions............................................LU
Living.....................;............................LI
Forum................:...................................6
Sports.....................................................9
Forum
Presi dntndo ulwcei 
m ioo clao g
Features
ShAv wo pho wAfoUF 
m ioo clao Ok
Diversions
Soo pho iplyi 
m ioo clao Orr
Volume 92, Issue 5Carnegie Mellon University's Student Newspaper Since 190629 September 1997
THE TARTAN
Clinton addresses AFL-CIO
President outlines new economic strategies to unions
Recycling program wastes away
By DANIEL ARP
Tartan Acting News EditorConference features acclaimed author
By LUKE BRINDLE
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
In his address to the AFL-CIO last 
Wednesday, President Clinton touted 
U.S. economic progress over the past 
five years and strategies that he plans 
to implement during the remainder of 
his term, focusing on reduc
ing the deficit, improving 
education, and opening new 
trade markets.
The deficit has been cut by 
87 percent since I have been 
in office, Clinton said.
His speech kicked off the 
22nd Biennial Convention of the 
American Federation of Labor-Congress of Industrial Organizations, the 
giant union of unions, held last 
Wednesday through Friday at the 
David L. Lawrence Convention Cen
ter in downtown Pittsburgh.
The 808 delegates of the AFL-CIO 
addressed existing policies and policy 
decisions such as urban renewal, creat
ing new jobs, and improving race rela
tions  these issues focus on organiza
tion of workers into unions, said Clinton.
Educational opportunities have risen
during his term mainly due to special 
work-study grants for students in need 
of financial aid. We have opened the 
doors of a college education to anyone 
willing to work for it, he said. He also 
proposed raising national standards 
in arithmetic and reading for grade 
school students.
Education is just one part of social 
spending that makes progressive gov
ernment work, Clinton said.
The President hailed recent Congres
sional acts that provide for paid ab
sences for workers with family illness 
and expand health care to five million 
children as victories for labor unions.
The current plan for increasing for
eign markets for U.S. products includes 
trade negotiations with North and South 
America through the Fast Track Agree
ment. Such a treaty would lower tariffs 
and other trade barriers  similar to
provisions made by the 1993 North 
American Free Trade Agreement.
While the agreement might help U.S. 
foreign markets, American labor 
unions are opposed to the Fast Track 
because the new policy could encour
age weak labor standards abroad, un
dermining jobs, standards, and wages 
at home, according to 
AFL-CIO leaders.
US workers fear that 
company owners will 
move factories and 
plants abroad  where 
standard wage require
ments and health ben
efits are less restricted.
Despite union criticisins, trade 
relations between the U.S. and 
South America have increased by 
nearly two-thirds in the last few 
years, said Clinton.
We want to help America the nation 
live up to America the idea, said Clinton, 
by bridging social gaps of race, gender, 
and class. We want to come closer to an 
equal distribution of opportunity. 
Reverend Jesse Jackson and Senator 
Edward Kennedy also spoke at the con
vention.
We want to help America the na
tion live up to America the idea.  
 President Bill Clinton
Last year, CMU failed to meet the 
requirements of the Pennsylvania Recy
cling and Waste Reduction Act 101 of 
1988. The Act calls for 25 percent of 
waste to be recycled; CMU produced 
3000 tons of waste and only recycled 300 
tons, 8 percent of the total.
According to students, the problem lies 
with CPS workers recycling practices.
Roberta Rigano, a fifth-year senior in 
chemistry, interrupted a conversation 
with a Dining Services employee in the 
University Center to throw a Snapple 
bottle in the recycling bin. When she returned, she said, the employee men- The dumPster beh'"d Doherty Hail is often filled with various unrecycled items.
tioned that the recycling bags went in bags, one from the trash receptacle and seriously also.
the trash anyway. Later she asked an the other from the recycling receptacle, Bush said she had no idea why ememployee with Central Property Ser- and, without even looking at them, claims ployees were making claims that recyvices (CPS), the company responsible Warn, threw them into the same bin. cling was not occurring. Thats not an 
for emptying recycling bins, and got the Why are employees doing this? informed response, she said,
same response. Theres no incentive, said Warn. If the problem is one of workers not
Now, this is completely out of line, What CPS does is up to the individual, doing their jobs, Bush said she could
said Rigano. If the UC does not want and theres nobody checking up on each do little about it on her own.
to recycle, it shouldnt advertise that individual worker, said Warn. I dont have enough staff [for a
it does. A second alternative is that it could supervision system], she said. What
Elin Warn, a senior music major and a be CPS policy, as the worker told Rigano. youre asking for would require a lot 
leader ofthe student organization Earth, I can only say we do recycle, said more supervision than I can provide, 
saw a CPS employee collecting bags out- Carol Bush, a CPS administrator. We [My employees! have been with this 
side the UC early one morning. The takeitvery seriously.... Quite honestly, institution a long time. These are not 
employee collected two black garbage I think [my employees] take it that Please see RECYCLING, page 5
By RYAN D. SCHILLING
Tartan Assistant News Editor
At first there was not even a micro
phone to assist Daniel Quinn in his key
note speech for this years CMU Student 
Pugwash Conference. Unfazed by the 
technical difficulties, Quinn merely 
raised his voice so that all in the Mellon 
Institute Auditorium could hear his take 
on the conference theme Technologies 
of Peace.
Quinn, the author of the Turner To
morrow Fellowship winning Ishmael, 
has spoken to groups of all sorts, his 
wide appeal attracting invitations to 
speak from the Minnesota Social 
Investors Board to an annual meeting 
of human resource professionals. Dem
onstrating further the wide range of 
people who have found his work of use, 
the novel Ishmael has been used as a 
text or supplement in courses including 
Anthropology, World History, Biology, 
Native American Studies, andat CMU
 Engineering Ethics. He said the rea
son for his broad appeal was, I follow a 
strange rule that can be applied usefully 
to any subject. If they give you lined 
paper, write sideways.
Daniel Quinn spoke at Mellon Institute on 
Friday as part ofthe Pugwash conference.
Quinn said the conference theme, 
technologies of peace, immediately sug
gests technologies of war. While it 
would have been easy to speak on the 
contrast between the two, Quinn spoke 
on what he called technologies of the 
other war. Those being technologies we 
often take to be peaceful, when in fact 
Please see PUGWASH, page 3
Anthony Chao/Tartan Photo Editor
President Clinton spoke to a Pittsburgh audience of the AFL-CIO last Wednesday.

---------------------------------------------------

2The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  29 September 1997
 
Earthquake damages St. 
Francis cathedral in Italy
ASSISI, Italy (AP)  The followers 
of St. Francis lost two brothers and a 
refuge of peace. Art lovers saw irrepa
rable harm to Italys Renaissance 
riches. And Italians in general experi
enced yet another blow to their pro
found but delicate cultural fabric. Sat
urday was a day to assess and mourn 
the damage to the Basilica of St. 
Francis of Assisi by two earthquakes a 
day earlier that shook central Italy.
The tremors killed 11 in all, and 
they destroyed whole villages in the 
mountainous area, leaving several 
thousand people homeless. The sec
ond jolt sent swaths of vaulted ceiling 
in the basilicas upper section plung
ing to the floor, completely destroying 
frescoes by early master Cimabue and 
others by followers of the Italian mas
ter Giotto. A cycle depicting the life of 
the saint, attributed by many to Giotto, 
suffered cracks, and a 3-foot fissure 
opened in the bell tower.
The basilica, a religious space known 
to millions of tourists and perhaps
courtesy of AFP
People stand outside the damaged church of Saint Francis of 
Assisi after two earthquakes rocked central Italy on Friday.
Italys most sacred place, became the 
repository of yard-high piles of rubble.
Fine chalky dust obscured the remain
ing frescoes. The altar was crushed.
There were cracks and broken ma
sonry over much of the two-level com
plex, plus the monastery area.
The damage to the basilica and other 
places holy to the friars who follow 
Francis precepts of poverty, selfless
ness, and humility was for us like pain
ful wounds, said Agostino Gardin, the 
orders worldwide leader. These are, in 
fact, the places where we brothers can 
re-create the spiritual life of our father 
St. Francis and of St. Clare, the most 
important and most significant places 
of our Franciscan family, he said.
Pope John Paul II had chosen the 
basilica twice as the site of multifaith 
prayer services for peace, and he, too, 
grieved. At a spiritual gathering for 
Italian Roman Catholics in Bologna, 
the pope offered his condolences to the 
quake victims.
Restoration officials put the cost of 
restoration at tens of millions of dol
lars, and the government immedi
ately set aside $29 million for help to 
Assisi overall.
The earthquake was the latest di
saster to hit Italys cultural heritage.
In recent 
years, fires 
destroyed 
Venices La 
Fenice opera 
house and 
heavily dam
aged Turins 
cathedral, 
endangering 
the Shroud of 
Turin, and 
Mafia car 
bombs lacer
ated Florence 
galleries and 
ancient 
churches in 
Rome. 
Thieves regu
larly raid 
churches and ancient tombs, while 
vandals damage public fountains by 
Renaissance masters.
It will be impossible to return the 
cathedral to its former state, said Anto
nio Paolucci, a former culture minister.
Satellites detect 
rise in solar heat
WASHINGTON (AP)  Heat from 
the sun may be increasing and adding to 
the growing global warming that some 
believe is caused by greenhouse gases, a 
researcher reported today.
Solar radiation reaching the Earth is 
0.036 percent warmer than it was in 
1986, when the current solar cycle was 
beginning, according to a study in the 
journal Science by Richard C. Willson of 
Columbia Universitys Center for Cli
mate Systems Research.
Willson said the increase, detected 
by satellites that measure sunlight, is 
only a fraction of the total heat from 
the sun. But over a century, the rise 
would be enough to seriously aggra
vate problems of warming from the 
greenhouse gas effect.
Most researchers expect greenhouse 
warming of about 3.6 degrees Fahren
heit over the next 100 years, said Willson. 
Solar irradiance could add another 0.72 
degrees and that is not an insignificant 
number. It is smaller than the green
house effect, but it is not trivial, he said.
This is a significant increase, said 
John Firor of the National Center for 
Atmospheric Research in Boulder, Colo
rado. It would increase the rate at which 
we go into warming.
Willson said his finding supports the 
idea that a variable sun can play a pow
erful and natural role in the Earths 
climate. He said it is consistent with 
studies of cores drilled from ice depos
ited over thousands of years in such 
places as Greenland. By studying the 
isotopic chemistry of these ice cores, 
researchers have spotted changes that 
suggest the suns heat can vary from 
century to century and dramatically af
fect the Earths temperature, he said.
Audio and video 
pirates flourish
HONG KONG (AP)  The Happy 
Times store is so crowded, shoppers are 
having trouble squeezing in the door 
when a salesman makes his pitch. Come 
and have a look! Come and have a look! 
he barks, waving video CDs of Face/ 
Off and Men in Black. Never mind 
that these Hollywood blockbusters have
only just opened in Hong 
Kong theaters.
Happy Times is selling the 
CDs for as little as 30 Hong 
Kong dollars ($3.85) apiece. 
That is less than half the 
price of a movie ticket, and 
one-seventh the price of the 
legitimate video CD that 
isnt yet available. Not to 
mention questionable prod
ucts like Windows 98, a pro
gram that the U.S. software 
giant Microsoft still has in 
development. You can get 
three for 100 Hong Kong 
dollars ($12.80).
The most frustrating ele
ment about the pirated goods 
is that theyre available 
openly in these shopping ar
cades, said Woody Tsung, 
chief executive of the Hong 
Kong office of the Motion Pic
ture Industry Association. 
They are even mentioned in 
some tourist guidebooks.
The American movie 
group estimates 200 million 
illegally copied films are sold 
each year in Hong Kong, 
many of them at huge malls 
like the Sino Center, home 
of the Happy Times store.
Its laughable because
Liftoff..
courtesy of AFP
The shuttle Atlantis streaks into space on Thursday 
at Kennedy Space Center in this time exposure.
some of these places have been open for II
10 years. Its a real black eye for Hong ^
Kong, said Kevin Henshaw, chairman + + 
of the Hong Kong branch ofthe Business L/vJI ILII lUt? LvJ IlOti
Software Alliance, which combats pi
racy. Its one of the most blatant and 
obvious piracy centers in the world.
Swissair pilots 
claim to see UFO
ZURICH, Switzerland (AP)An uni
dentified, wingless object traveling at 
high speed passed dangerously close to a 
Swissair jetliner between Philadelphia 
and Boston, the airline said Friday.
The pilot and copilot gave U.S. inves
tigators different descriptions of the ob
ject that passed about 50 yards from the 
Boeing 747 after it had taken off from 
Philadelphia on August 9.
The pilot told the U.S. National Trans
portation Safety Board that the object 
was long and wingless, but the copilot 
said it was more spherical.
WASHINGTON (AP)  College costs 
far outpaced inflation again this fall  
the average yearly tuition at a state 
university or college pushed past $3,000 
and private tuition rose beyond $13,000.
The College Boards annual survey 
found that undergraduate tuition and 
fees at four-year institutions increased 
an average five percent since last year, 
triple the current inflation rate.
That means families are paying $136 
to $670 more than last year. Add room, 
board, and other expenses, and a year at 
a public college costs more than $10,000. 
Costs add up to more than $21,400 on 
average at a private school.
Increases have run about five percent 
for the last five years after double-digit 
rises earlier in the decade. Average tu
ition has more than doubled since 1976, 
even when inflation is considered.
Smog from deliberately-set forest fires cause Indonesian plane crash
JAKARTA, Indonesia (AP)  
An Indonesian jetliner carrying 
234 people crashed today in an 
area of Sumatra where visibility 
has been hampered by dense 
smoke from forest fires. Witnesses 
said it exploded and came to rest 
in pieces in a mountainside rice 
field. All aboard were feared dead.
Rescuers located 212 bodies in 
the burning, broken-up wreckage 
ofthe Garuda Airlines jet before the 
search ended for the night, airline 
official John Pieter said. The bodies 
were to be removed Saturday morn
ing, when a search for victims and 
the flight data recorder was to re
sume in the lush green terrain.
Eleven foreigners, including two 
Americans, were among the
planes 222 passengers and 12- 
member crew, the airline said. 
The airline identified two Ameri
cans aboard as Lloyd and Hase 
Herr, both residents of Indonesia.
Authorities were investigating 
whether the thick smoke and haze 
played a role in the crash of the A300B4 Airbus. Hundreds of forest 
fires, smoldering for months across 
Indonesia, have forced many 
Southeast Asian airports to shut 
down because of poor visibility.
Airport officials refused to say 
whether the 15-year-old twinengine jet was making a visual 
or instrument approach or what 
the visibility was at the time of 
the crash.
The plane had taken off from
the capital, Jakarta, en route to 
Medan in northern Sumatra, an 
airline official said. The Antara 
news agency reported that at least 
one infant was on board.
Witnesses said Flight GA152 
was flying low in the haze 20 
miles from Medans Polonia Air
port when it hit a tree and crashed 
in pieces. The plane exploded sec
onds before crashing, Anteve tele
vision said, quoting witnesses.
The weather conditions were 
OK for landing, but there was 
smoke haze around Medan at the 
time, Communications Minister 
Haryanto Danutirto said.
The haze and the rugged ter
rain prevented rescuers from fly
ing helicopters to the crash site, a
mountainous area about 870 
miles northwest of Jakarta. 
Search teams rushed to the scene.
Sumatra, along with neighbor
ing Borneo, is among the islands 
most affected by the forest fires, 
many of which were deliberately 
set to clear land.
Medan police said the plane came 
down near the Sumatran village of 
Pancur Batu after it disappeared 
from radar screens, Antara re
ported. Later, it said radar contact 
was lost eight minutes after the 
last radio contact with the pilot.
The plane had been delivered 
to Garuda in November 1982, 
according to Airbus Industrie, 
the France-based manufacturer 
of the plane. By the end of August, the plane 
had flown
about 16,500 
flights, the 
company said.
President 
Suharto sent 
condolences to 
families of the 
dead, and
TVRI televi
sion played 
somber music.
Garuda is 
Indonesias larg
est state-owned 
airline and op
erates interna
tional and do
mestic flights.
courtesy of Reuters
Officials search the wreckage of an Indonesian 
Airbus jet that crashed in northern Sumatra.
Four-Day Forecast
Calendr
it's
Showers.
Hi 60 Lo 48
.ln;lendr L
fe)
Showers.
Hi 60 Lo 45
C1aLendrSunny.
Hi 69 Lo 43
4LsndrSunny.
Hi 72 Lo 46
Carnegie Almanac
From National Weather Service bulletins and other sources
50 YEARS AGO, November 4, 
1947The Carnegie Tartan was 
heavily criticized by a member of 
Student Council. Callingthe news
paper sensational and yellow 
journalism, councilman David 
Mintz demanded that the Tartan 
reporter who was covering the 
meeting be removed, and that all 
Tartan reporters be barred from 
any further Council meetings. He 
claimed The Tartan twisted the 
facts in order to make a big blow 
on the front page.
25 YEARS AGO, October 10, 
1972  Jane Fonda, Tom Hadyn, 
and George Smith were in Pitts
burgh as part of an education and 
exposure tour concerning the is
sues of the Vietnam War. Their 
purpose was to expose to the brain
washed public the fallacy that the 
war was actually winding down. 
Bombing, said Haydn, is occur
ring more than ever. Fonda, who 
had just returned from a visit to 
North Vietnam, gave a vivid de
scription of the effects of the bomb
ing. Tour million are homeless, 
four million bombs have fallen. I 
saw women whose bodies were 
mutilated, children with no hands 
or feet, napalm victims twisted out 
of shape, and people vomiting to 
death from a gas called CP.
10 YEARS AGO,September 29, 
1987Unknown persons defaced 
GSIA trailers that had been sit
ting adjacent to the Studio The
ater. The vandals spray-painted 
in large red letters across the ends 
of the four trailers This is a crime, 
and across the side of one, Save 
the wall. GSIA had installed the 
trailers to alleviate space concerns 
for the department. GSIA sympa
thized with people who found the 
trailers to be eyesores, but found
vandalism to be an unacceptable 
solution. Some students saw the 
incident as a form of civil disobe
dience. I see the trailers as van
dalism, said student Todd Sand
ers. When asked about the van
dalism, a group of people around 
the trailers applauded. Other stu
dents disagreed with the vandal
ism. I think this is a ridiculous 
way of dealing with the problem, 
said another student, Greg Berry. 
I dont particularly like the trail-. 
ers, but it is still vandalism.
FIVE YEARS AGO, Septem
ber 28, 1992  Student Senate 
passed an amended form of a 
smoking resolution proposed 
eariler. In the hopes of being fair 
to smokers and non-smokers alike, 
the resolution contained three 
main parts. The first banned 
smoking from all student organi
zation offices. The second permit
ted smoking at indoor activities 
sponsored by the Student Activi
ties Fee, but only if all concerned 
consented. The last section rec
ommended that Campus Police 
be required to fine smoking policy 
violators a minimum of $10.
ONE YEAR AGO, September 
30, 1996  President Clinton 
spoke at Robert Morris College, 
with the knowledge that he held 
a substantial lead in the state of 
Pennsylvania. He didnt mask his 
confidence of re-election during 
his speech. His official program 
for the morning was his proposal 
for an inflation-proof govern
ment bond, but since his audi
ence was mostly students, Clinton 
concentrated on his plans to main
tain the strong economy.
Compiled by 
RYAN D. SCHILLING

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  29 September 19973
In memory.
Senate proposes MLK holiday
African-American students and other 
minority students than it actually is, 
said Krug. One other point that the 
resolution makes is that by having no 
classes on Martin Luther King Jr. Day, 
the university can show the Pittsburgh 
community its responsibility to the ide
als of the man.
The diversity of the campus commu
nity is such that there are many holiBy DANIEL TSENG
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
This Thursday, several members of 
Student Senate plan to propose a resolu
tion concerning the cancellation of 
classes on Martin Luther King Jr. Day.
As it stands now, CMU does not observe 
the holiday by cancelling class.
The resolution was drafted by Bryon
Krug, student body president, _______
and members of Student Sen
ate. Krug sent out an email 
survey to about 600 students 
in 1996 questioning whether 
there should be a day off on 
Martin Luther King, Jr. Day.
Approximately 80 percent of 
the students think that Mar
tin Luther King Jr. Day should 
be recognized with a day off 
from classes.
The resolution lists several reasons 
why the holiday should be observed, 
noting that Martin Luther King Jr. Day 
represents equality, civil rights, accep
tance of diversity, and peaceful protest 
for everyone. It also states that by not 
recognizing this day, CMU sends a nega
tive message to the Pittsburgh commu
nity and future students.
By continuing to hold classes on Mar
tin Luther King Day, Carnegie Mellon 
seems to be much less supportive of
Crime and Incident Report
"Our campus tends to be rather 
closed-minded about civil rights 
and human rights..."
 Elayne Foster, sophomore 
business administration major
days of personal importance to individu
als, and so we need to have clear oppor
tunities for students, faculty, and staff 
to celebrate those holidays as they 
choose. It is for this reason that we have 
policies for floating holidays, for faculty 
and staff, and for students being able to 
make accommodations with faculty to 
miss a class, while ensuring that the 
work is covered, said Michael Murphy, 
dean of Student Affairs. With this policy, 
students who wish not to miss classes
may choose to attend them.
Our campus tends to be rather 
closed-minded about civil rights and 
human rights, and observing that 
would be a good way to open some 
eyes. said Elayne Foster, a sopho
more in Business Administration.
Bader Al-Essa, a senior in Mechanical 
Engineering, doesnt believe that the 
day off is appropriate. Itll be cool to
_________ have a day off from school,
but I think we have a lot of 
intelligent people on cam
pus and I dont think taking 
a day off is the right way to 
celebrate it, said Al-Essa.
As of now, it is unknown 
whether or not the adminis
tration will choose to cancel 
classes on Martin Luther 
King Jr. Day.
The reasons for not rec
ognizing a variety of holidays is un
derstandable and is a statement 
about the importance we place on 
classes and the need to be serious 
about the business of education, said 
Dean Murphy.
Doing this will send a message to 
the surrounding community that 
Carnegie Mellon truly does believe in 
the values that Martin Luther King 
Jr. stood for and still stands for to
day, said Krug.
Lecturer highlights 
Pugwash program
PUGWASH, from page 1
they are very detrimental to the envi
ronment. One example he gave was 
agricultural research to increase the 
yield of crops so as to support our 
growing global population. He said 
that the causal relationship we most 
often perceive in this case is back
ward. Food production is the fuel of 
our population explosion, said Quinn.
Quinns main focus in his lecture, 
was how humanity could eventually 
destroy itself using technologies of 
the other war. Overcrowding, which 
he already discussed, is one way. The 
most disturbing, however, is the way 
humanity attempts to kill off fastbreeding pests, such as cockroaches, 
fleas, bacteria, and viruses. By killing 
off the weaker 80 percent of these 
species, through natural selection we 
are creating a population of 
superbugs. These creatures we 
have produced are becoming more 
and more susceptible to any of our 
technologies. He was quick to point 
out that this is not nature fighting 
back. This is merely nature operating 
the way we know it operates. The way 
it has been operating here for three 
and a half billion years.
He also commented on humans
strange idea to consider all things 
made by plants, animals, and natural, 
processes to be good for you, while 
everything man-made is unnatural: 
and unhealthy.
Man has gradually come to be con
ceived as something no longer belong
ing to nature at all, said Quinn. Why 
is the trail system of a white-tailed deer 
natural, but an expressway system un
natural? Why is a birds nest natural, 
but this building were in unnatural?
The audience also benefited from an 
extended question-and-answer ses
sion. Quinn fielded all kinds of ques
tions, from what his take was on the 
human genome project to what he felt 
we should do about the problems he. 
brought up. He responded by saying 
that his purpose was to expose these 
problems so that people will come to
gether to solve them. Following, there 
was a reception outside the audito
rium, giving students the opportunity 
to speak with Quinn personally and to 
have him sign copies of their books.
In closing, Quinn said, I am defi
nitely for technologies of peace. At the 
same time we had better be aware 
that some technologies of peace are 
actually more hazardous than any 
technology of war.
9/17 NOISE COMPLAINT, 9:51 pm
 The victim phoned Campus Police to 
complain about the noise going on out
side of his West Wing room. The noise he 
was referring to was being created by 
the Kiltie Band, who often practice on 
the lawn between Donner and Resnik/ 
West Wing. He said the band practice 
includes the full band, but at other times 
is only the drum line. But no matter who 
it is that practices, they are loud and 
they disturb him. He felt that the band 
should practice at a place where not so 
many students will be disturbed by the 
noise. However, he offered no specific 
alternatives, and Campus Police had 
none either. Much to the victims cha
grin, the Kiltie Band continues to play 
on the lawn.
9/19 MEDICAL, 5:24 am  The dis
patcher on duty received an urgent call 
from a students mother in New York. 
She said that her son had called her 
stating that he was having trouble 
breathing. Officers were dispatched to 
the scene in Morewood Gardens. There 
they found the student in bed. He told 
them that he has been using a nicotine
patch to help him quit smoking and that 
the patch had been causing him to feel 
anxious. He was unable to sleep, and 
had been coughing a lot. This was when 
he discovered that he was having trouble 
breathing. He had phoned his mom in 
order to calm down. After checking the 
students vital signs, EMS decided that 
he was probably suffering from a panic 
attack. EMS advised he be sent to the 
hospital. En route, the student explained 
that he had had such attacks before, but 
he thought the current problems were 
due to the nicotine patch and that he had 
consumed too much caffeine. The officer 
suggested to the student that sometime 
in the near future he go to the Counsel
ing Center where support services are 
available.
9/20 THEFT, 8:51 am  The victim 
came to the Campus Police office and 
informed an officer that the previous 
night she had placed her IBM ThinkPad 
laptop computer on the ground at the 
bus stop in front of Warner Hall. She got 
on the bus without remembering to pick 
it up again. When she got off the bus, she 
realized her error, but when she re
turned to the spot where she left it, it 
was gone. The computer was valued at 
$2734.92.
9/20 MEDICAL, A Campus Police of
ficer provided transport for a student 
who had injured his left index finger. He 
cut part of the finger and sanded the rest 
while using an electric sander. He said 
that the machine was working properly, 
and it was his error that caused the 
accident.
9/24 HARRASMENT BY COMMU
NICATION, 4:52 pmWhile giving an 
officer information on a theft report, the 
student expressed her concern that the 
theft might be related to the harrassment 
that she had been receiving since the 
onset of the academic year. She said that 
somone seems to have broken into her 
Andrew account, and that the hacker 
leaves obscene messages in her signa
ture file such as, I [obscenity] hate you, 
Youre [obscenity] stupid. The victim 
has changed her password several times, 
but even that has not deterred the foulmouthed hacker. Also, two weeks ear
lier, when her roommate answered the
phone, a female caller said, [obscenity] 
you, [victims name]. There was noth
ing unusual about the callers voice, how9/24 MEDICAL, 6:47 am  A com
plainant called Campus Police to inform 
them that a female had fallen down the 
stairs inside Highlander Cafe. When the 
officer arrived on the scene, he found the 
victim sitting on a chair on the second 
floor of Highlander. Student EMS ar
rived at approximately the same time. 
The victim was given an ice pack to help 
reduce the swelling in her right ankle 
and was transported to Presbyterian 
Hospital by the reporting officer. It may 
be noted that the stairs were free and 
clear of any slippery debris.
9/25 SCAM, 7:59 pm  The following 
incident happened on Margaret Morrison 
Street in front of Donner Hall.
The victim was walking back from 
Shadyside when a woman in her late 30s 
approached her saying that she was 
having trouble with her car. The car, 
according to the actor, was broken down 
on a bridge. The actor then informed the
victim that she needed to get to 
Monroeville, and that a man in a nearby 
truck, which she pointed out, had of
fered to take her for the fee of $30. But 
alas, she had only five dollars. The kindhearted victim wrote the actor a check 
for cash in the amount of $25. The victim 
also stated that she saw the same woman 
the next day wearing stretch pants and 
a purple top. The victim was advised to 
contact Campus Police if she ever sees 
the actor again.
 Chief of Campus Police James LaPaglia 
reviews all reporis prior to release.
 Only three people on The Tartan staff see 
the reports: the Editor-in-Chief, the News 
Editor, and the staffwriter typing the report.
 All personal names of complainants, 
victims, suspects, and fraternity names are 
omitted from the printed report. Ethnic de
scriptions and otherpersonaldeta ils are given 
only in the context of complete descriptions.
 Notevery incidentthatoccursappears in 
the report.
Compiled by 
RYAN SCHILLING
Professional Manicure & Design
FULL SET OF ACRYLIC.........$25.00
FILL-IN................. .....................$15.00
Acrylic Nails  Silk Nails  Gel Nails 
Manicures  Pedicures  Designs 
Walk-Ins or 
AppointmentsAsk about Cal daily specials
117 Oakland Avenue, Oakland 682-3105
V got averything it takesacademic achievement, 
anve, and the khowfedge you're ust itching to let % As 
a $3.8 button global povimihouse, Harris ghrs graduates reaiworid responsibilities right out o* the gate.
Come see us at th Harris booth on September 25, 1997 thorn lOtfOafTHkOOpm at the Technical Opportunities Conference In the 
CMU Student Center Gym
 COMPUTER ENGINEERS
 SYSTEMS ENGINEERS
 COMPUTER SCIENCE
 MECHANICAL ENGINEERS
 ELECTRICAL ENGINES*
 BUSINESS/riNANCE/ACCdWrfNO MIS/CIS
 CHEMICAL ENGINEERS 
INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERSI
 Harris offers graduates global exposure lo a realworld arena, generous opportunities for professional 
growth, the technologies and resources to enhance your 
talents, and the compensation, benefits and rewards you'd 
expect from a Fortune 500 company. If you cannot attend, 
please forward your resume, hidudJng mure tod ikSHiWS,
| to: Harris Corporation, RO. So* 37, MaJIstop 
12-1430, Melbourne, FL 32902-0037; Email resumlx@ 
harris.com (Resumes must be in ASCII format) Hanit is chi 
equai opportunity employe dedicated to diversity MA/D/V.
POWER UP @ www.harris.com/collcgc
HARRIS
InformationSystems
Internet
Technology
Manufacturing/
Operations
Marketing
Customer
Service
HumanResources
BusinessDevelopment
Information
Session: Oct. 2 
On-campus Interviews: Oct. 3
At EMC, breaking out of the box" is the essence of our corporate culture. Its rising 
to new challenges....learning new technologies and skills...riding the wave of dramatic growth 
with a truly dynamic team. In technical terms, EMC's intelligent disk arrays, software products, 
and services are the leading information access and storage solutions for every major computing 
platform in todays business environment. In career terms, EMC is a company that values and 
supports individual contribution - you wont get lost in the crowd. You may find yourself inspired, 
energized, and rewarded. But we promise youll never be bored.
To explore a future with EMC, please stop by your Career Center or send/fax your resume to: 
Human Resources, University Recruitment, Code KWI-CMU929, EMC Corporation, Hopkinton, MA 
01748-9103; Fax: (508)435-8884. Or you may email your resume to:
university_emc@isus.emc.com Attach and save your resume as an ASCII text file using up to 
8 characters of your last/first name+.TXT (i.e. SMITHJOE.TXT). if you are using Word for 
Windows 6.0, save the document as 
MS-DOS Text with line breaks. EMC 
is an equal opportunity employer that *<
values the strength diversity brings to 
our workplace.EMC
The Enterprise Storage Company
Rise to the Enterprise.

---------------------------------------------------

^ SBC Warburg Dillon Read
1Your Key to Opportunity.111I111
Changing the Face 
of Investment 
Banking
As a world leader among financial institutions, 
SBC Warburg Dillon Read has opportunities for 
students interested in joining an organization that has 
built its franchise as the investment bank of choice, 
meeting the global banking needs of our clients.
We cordially invite the students of 
Carnegie Mellon University to learn 
more about our global 
opportunities on:
Monday, October 6, 1997
4:30PM 
Porter Hall 
Room A18A
Visit our website at: www.sbcwarburg.com
SBC Warburg Dillon Read is a subsidiary of Swiss Bank Corporation 
An Equal Opportunity Employer

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  29 September 19975-,
Student sustains injuries in bike crash
Anna Fortin/Tartan Junior Staff
A student was injured by a car while bike riding across the IVlorewood intersection.
ACCIDENT, from page 1
Tech streets, and the whole strip of 
Morewood Avenue between Forbes and 
Fifth.
Helffrich reminds bicyclists to _ 
wear helmets, obey traffic sig
nals, stay within the speed limit, 
remain on the right side of the 
road, and use hand signals.
The only way for these types of 
accidents to be prevented is if 
people are more careful, bicyclists
and drivers included, said Roz ____
Blank, an officer with the city of * 
Pittsburgh. She said roughly one bicycle 
accident occurs every two or three weeks.
No area is particularly more danger
ous than than any otehr, she said.
People need to be careful everywhere,
she said.
City of Pittsburgh police officers did 
arrive at the scene where they pro
ceeded to investigate the incident since
"People need to be careful 
everywhere. 
 Roz Blank 
Pittsburgh police officer
CMU officials only have jurisdiction 
over CMU property. However, they 
would not release further information 
regarding the accident unless the indi
viduals involved made the request.
CMU addresses the issue of bicycle 
safety in its university policy for bi
cycle and wheeled transportation. Ac
cording to this policy, The operation 
______ on campus of bicycles is sub
ject to the provisions of the 
Pennsylvania Motor Vehicle 
Code.
It is Carnegie Mellons goal 
to provide regulations for a 
safe and convenient environ
ment for bicycles and other 
wheeled transportation, while 
at the same time providing for 
the safety of all members of the cam
pus community.
Operators are required to operate at 
speeds that are prudent and reason
able under existing conditions.
Students question recycling plan
RECYCLING, from page 1
new employees. I have to trust 
their credibility.
Bush said she didnt know of 
any incidents like the one de
scribed by Warn, but advised that 
students report such incidents if 
they occur, and get the employees 
name. If everybody is a pair of 
eyes and a pair of ears for me 
also.... lean go to that person and 
say, This is what Ive heard.  
As for the low percentage of 
materials being recycled on camthan anywhere else, said Bush.
There has been confusion 
among students and staff as to 
what precisely is in the CPS con
tract with regard to recycling, 
especially in Housing. In the 
past, when CMU had a contract 
with American Building Main
tenance (ABM), it was not a part 
of ABMs contract to recycle in 
the dorms.
Bush said Housing is abso
lutely the same contract as the 
contract for academic buildings.
What CPS does is up to the indi
vidual, and theres nobody checking 
up on each individual worker.
 Elin Warn, senior piano 
performance major
pus, Bush said contamination is 
the problem. When materials are 
thrown in the recycling bins that 
cannot be recycled, that entire 
bag must be thrown out.
That, 99 percent of the time, is 
probably why those [recyclablesl 
get thrown away, said David 
Myers, Assistant Director of Uni
versity Housing.
The University Center is a spe
cial case, said Bush, because it is 
a multi-use building that attracts 
many different groups of people. 
A lot of trash up there is con
taminated, she said. We try very 
hard. Its not always easy.
Effective recycling in the dorms 
is even more difficult. To the best 
of my knowledge, the trash in 
Housing is far more contaminated
CPS is supposed to be, and I 
believe they are, taking 
recyclables out, said Myers.
But some, like Jon Beckley, a 
professor in the Art Department, 
argue that plastic, glass, and alu
minum are only a part of the 
recycling issued 
For the past two years, Beckley 
has been photographing all the 
recyclable and reusable trash hes 
found in the dumpster behind 
Doherty Hall, including card
board, scrap metal, compost ma
terial, and furniture.
Ive seen everything in there, 
he said.
Beckley even has some chairs 
from the dumpster in his office, 
and invites anyone to sit in them. 
It seems they could just call up
Goodwill, he said.
Barbara Kviz, the campus re
cycling coordinator, said that 
the University does give old 
furniture to Goodwill unless 
its in poor condition.
When told this, Beckley 
tapped a chair in almost-new 
condition. This came out of 
the dumpster, he. said.
There is currently no Uni
versity-wide program in place 
to recycle scrap metal. Were 
kind of in a space crunch now, 
said Kviz. We dont have any 
drop-off location for scrap 
metal. Theres really no place 
to put one.
With so many factors con
tributing to the less-than-legal recycling percentages, 
the question becomes 
whether 25 percent is a real
istic expectation.
[25 percent] should defi
nitely be the goal, said Myers. 
The biggest piece that has to 
happen is an educational 
piece.... If students dont know 
what theyre supposed to be do
ing, then its not going to work. 
Myers also said he felt more 
student involvement was 
called for.
The best [campus recy
cling program] I saw was 
driven by a group of students 
that were interested and in
vested and pretty much spon
sored the program. The uni
versity assisted them. 
Beckley said more needed to 
be done on the administration 
end. It seems like if we cant 
[recycle effectively] on this 
scale, how can we expect any
one to do it on a large scale?
Corrections/Clarifications...
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact If you know of an error, please contact Editor-in-Chief 
Sharmila Venkatasubban at tartan@andrew.cmu.edu.
resources for 
mega-clients. 
CSC is transcenters mio fullfledged resource 
renters for dents 
such as British
Taking Pictures of Pluto...
Helping perfect the Hubble
Space Telescope is one of Turning Data Into Dollars...
the many contributions that Creatng data warehouses has
CSC has made to NASA opened up new business opportixv
tes for dents Ike Black and Decker.
Just ,another DAY
CSC
At no other company will you find the variety, challenge and stimulation that 
you'll encounter as a CSC employee. The projects youll work on each day 
are as unique and as innovative as the clients we represent across more 
than a dozen different industries.
On any given day, you could play a role in cataloguing millions of stars for NASA. 
Turning an entire nations library into an on-line cybrary." Collecting airline data 
six miles above Earth. Or ensuring that code-red emergency ambulance services 
stay in the back. Whatever projects come your way, you'll acquire one-of-a-kind 
job skills and enjoy countless opportunities for advancement.
Here, no two days are alike. In fad, the only ordinary thing about CSC is the 
consistently extraordinary work we do. Interview with us at our company pre
sentation on October 1st from 5-7 pm, at the Student Center Room 200. 
Stop by to see us and find out why a day at CSC is never really just another 
day. Or email your resume to: csi19@csc.com. No file attachments, please.
Or mail your resume to: CSC, Attn: Recruiting Manager, 300 Executive 
Drive, Suite 300, West Orange, NJ 07052. For more information at CSC, visit 
our .website at http://www.c8c.com. An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/D/V.
Heading Down 
the Right Road.. 
CSC Developed 
an IT archlecture 
aSowing Chrysler 
Corporation to 
communicate 
more effectively 
with its auto
motive financing
Taking the Bull by the Horns... 
CSC is helpng Meml Lynch roll out one 
ol the bggest information technology 
irutiatrves in the history of Wall Street
vouxiiy b
Catching Spies in Cyberspace... 
Our INFOSEC accomplishments indude 
creabng a separate private internet for 
thegovernmenl
\ jl.
&i Mr ?
FOR SOMEPEOPLE,
OURL/vvJIlUt
Stud e SO
LIVABLE*
You can help.
By giving through United Way, you.'re supporting over 300 
different human service programs. Programs that meet the 
needs of people living right here in our community.
Put your money where your heart is.
UnlbedWay
of Southwestern Pennsylvania
ropy of.ihe. official registration and financial information of United Wav ofSoUthwestern Pennsylvania may Ix.- obtained fmin the 
PA Depannx-nt of State by calling toll free, within Pennsylvania.. 1 (fiOO) 732-0999. Registration does not imply endorsement.
I East  jT Liberty Jj Presbyterian11 Church___
The Cathedral ofJpe 
Penn and 
Highland Avenues
A New Vision of the Universe: A Cosmic 
Journey Through 
Space and Time
View the awesome beauty of the 
universe through spectacular colored 
slides and films. Trace the path that 
leads from the Big Bang to the mystery 
of life and explore how this new cosmic 
vision influences our conception of God.
Presented by Dr. Eric Carlson, 
Astronomer at Adler Planetarium 
in Chicago.
Saturday, October 11 9:00 am-3:00 pm 
Sunday, October 12 9:30 am-11:00 am
S30 in advance 
S35 at the door
S25 Students with ID/Senior Citizens
Indudes continental breakfast 
and lunch on Saturday
For tickets or information, 
call 441-3800.
career opportunities for graduates
tap into a High ST.
UiAwere new. were established.
Feel the full-throttje atmosphere of an aggressive start-up 
company that is a little different. (O.K.. a lot different.) Our 
corporation has 5.000 employees and over $600 million in 
current sales. You'll leverage a history of communication break
throughs that began with the original Vic trola machine (ask your 
parents), and now spans the latest developments in space and 
ground-based intelligent communications technologies for 
commercial and public sector markets. Our division's location is 
also very smart, on the waterfront across from Philadelphia's 
historic Penn's Landing.
were ready for you.
University Center - Rangos Ballroom 
 Mon., Oct. 6th, 9:00am - 4:30pm
www. careermosaic. com/cm/L3/
entry level programs.
for new graduates.
 Computer Engineering 
-  Computer Science
 Electrical Engineering
the areas,
for the right fit.
 Software
C or C++ programming experience and a 
comfort level with UNIX would be cool.
 Systems
You're ideal with experience in requirements analysis, 
plus integration and test.
 Hardware
If you have digital electronics experienceperfect.
or contact.. .Patricia A. Spruill. 1 Federal Street. Camden. NJ 
05103  voice [609] 335-4203  fax [609] 335-3720 
 e-mail patricia. a. sprulll(lmco.com
r.ntry level positions exist with both direct assignments or 
two-year rotational'opportunities. All candidates must be 
US citizens. Equal Opportunity Employer
communications
Communication Systems-East

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Carnegie Mellon University29 September 1997
Cohon should be lauded 
for his accessibility
While the University was look
ing for its next president, the 
presidential search committee 
offered students a number of 
opportunities to talk about the 
qualities that they wanted to 
see in their new leader. One at
tribute that ranked high on the 
list was accessibility; students 
wanted the president to take 
active interest in them, treat 
them with importance, and be
come a highly visible campus 
figure. Since his appointment as 
eighth president of CMU, Dr. 
Jared Cohon has made a con
certed effort to fulfill these ex
pectations.
Without proper access to the 
leader of an organization, mem
bers of a group or community 
have limited venues in which to 
voice their opinions. But as the 
leader of our university, Cohon 
not only holds office hours, he 
also actively pursues student 
input about things that affect 
students and the campus com
munity. He has promised to at
tend one meeting of every stu
dent organization and has also 
attended student-oriented 
events such as the Activities 
Fair. It is easy to see that Cohons 
interest goes beyond acknowl
edgment  he has genuine in
terest for students concerns.
However, a president must also 
fill many roles as a representa
tive of the school. Cohon must 
strike a balance between his role
Classrooms need to 
accomodate class size
CMU boasts a student to fac
ulty ratio of 8:1, but you wouldnt 
know it looking in on certain 
lecture classes, where students 
can be found sitting in the aisles, 
or in discussion classes that al
most resemble lectures.
Although professors are gen
erally expected to reserve class
rooms based on the number of 
students in the class, students 
are often jammed in to class
room spaces that are too small 
to accommodate the class size.
While most departments limit 
class size to a certain number 
depending on the nature of the 
class, professors tend to take in 
the first few students on the 
waiting list, regardless of how 
many people drop the class. This 
leads to students searching for 
seats or students having to rush 
to class to ensure that they will 
have a seat at all.
Classroom situations and con
ditions impact the learning ex
perience just as much as the 
quality of the course content and 
the abilities of the professor.
In small discussion-based 
classes, overcrowding makes a 
considerable impact on the class 
dynamic. If the professor (let 
alone students) cannot see and 
interact with all the members of 
the class, discussion can be lim
ited. Professors who go over the 
intended class limit might think 
that they are helping a student, 
but it is often at the expense of
We v MN 'em WrJ
as a campus resource, corporate 
head, and liason between the 
University and the Pittsburgh 
community. So far, he has lived 
up to all of these expectations, 
fostering open and honest com
munication. If he can continue 
to do this, maybe these two sides 
of CMU will finally synergize.
By offering office hours, he has 
taken the time and energy to 
show his concern for students, 
and now students should recip
rocate. In the past, the role of 
the president has been unclear 
for most students; if they didnt 
take advantage of opportunities 
to meet with former President 
Mehrabian, it was often because 
they didnt know how he could 
affect their college experience.
Attending office hours is a good 
way to find out what the presi
dent does and how he can act as 
aresourcefor students. Students 
should take advantage of his 
interest in order to ensure that 
he realizes how important it is 
to them. It should be a great com
fort to students that the leader of 
the University wants to know how 
they feel because he has the power 
to change things.
Hopefully, Cohon will continue 
his efforts to forge a bond with 
students. As the leader of the 
University, he has a duty to fos
ter an environment where free 
exchange of ideas between ad
ministrators and students are 
accepted and encouraged.
James Mojonnier/Tartan Art Staff
Letters to the Editor
Letter to 
the Editor
the other students already en
rolled in the class.
Students have enough trouble 
asking questions in large lec
ture courses; when the class is 
overcrowded, interaction be
tween the professor and students 
becomes even more strained. It 
also becomes harder for students 
to concentrate when classrooms 
are tight for space. Recitations 
are supposed to provide students 
with a chance to interact more 
closely with an instructor, but as 
lecture sizes increase so do recita
tions. These classes are often even 
more disproportionate in class size 
to classroom space ratios than the 
lectures themselves.
Many times, professors become 
lax in regard to class size be
cause a student needs the course 
in order to graduate on time, but 
an overcrowded classroom set
ting is not necessarily the an
swer. While the University has 
made strides to limit the num
ber of first-years admitted to 
CMU, measures such as com
munication between depart
ments and the Registrar can 
tackle this problem easily.
Possible solutions to the prob
lem include not only requesting 
adequate-sized classrooms, but 
also adhering to class-size limits. 
CMU offers quality classes that 
lead to one of the nations best 
educational programs  it is im
portant to make sure students 
are able to make the most of it.
Kappa Sigma 
brother responds
Editor:
Now, Im not one to 
name names (Idan 
Waisman), but a cer
tain letter by one of 
your readers (Idan 
Waisman) caught my 
attention recently. I was so impressed 
by the letter, I decided to model my 
opening after his own. Puerile effects 
aside though, I would like to address a 
few issues that the writer brought up. It 
is not my intent to belittle the author, so 
I hope nobody (Idan Waisman) perceives 
it as such.
In the first portion, he states, I cannot 
understand why anybody would want, 
much less feel it is their right, to turn 
what was once a symbol of free speech 
into a commercial device. I found this 
statement odd. I understand his point of 
view, insomuch as hed rather not see 
commercials on the Fence.
Isnt it strange, however, that the 
writer, in the same breath, identifies the 
Fence as an object of free speech and 
then proceeds to express the opinion 
that another organization cannot use it 
as a commercial device? So, if I decide 
I want to paint the Fence tomorrow, I 
have to refrain from painting what I 
want on it, because it is an object of free 
speech? I see. No, wait. I dont. Maybe it 
gets clearer later in the letter.
The next section describes the writers 
memories of the Fence. Apparently, ac
cording to the writer, the Fence was for 
the most part a fun device, conveying 
novel thoughts to otherwise weary fresh
man. Yeah, to an extent it was, and still 
is. The writer would have you believe, 
though, that this commercialization of 
the Fence is a recent, destructive devel
opment. Alas, I was a freshman the 
same year as the writer of the letter. 
Know what? It hasnt changed a bit. In 
fact, certain houses consider it a tradi
tion to host the Fence, camp out, and
entertain passers-by. Its always been 
done. Whether it was to advertise a 
Greek philanthropy event, a favored 
buggy, or another kickin production 
at Theta Xi, the Fence was used to 
advertise. For that matter, KGB, SDC, 
the inmates of Schlag, CMU Rugby, 
and many other non-Greek organiza
tions have used the Fence to  you 
know it  advertise.
In fact, I bet, just maybe, it was done 
even before our time, though it is hard to 
imagine such an evil could be perpetu
ated for so many years. This leads me to 
the next topic in the article.
The letter states, If these ads are 
trying to generate interest in people who 
are not already interested ... then who
ever makes them is sadly misled. I find 
that really hard to believe.
Perhaps the writer can explain then 
why so many Greek and non-Greek or
ganizations struggle to host the Fence at 
the beginning of the year. I, and many 
other freshmen at the time, wandered 
over to the Fence, attracted by the smoky 
grill and greasy burgers, the funky mu
sic being played, the random people just 
hanging around and playing ball, the 
Sega in the tent, whatever.
We werent at all interested in rushing 
a fraternity. In fact, I arrived at CMU 
very anti-Greek, since all I knew of fra
ternities was the stereotype.
The messages on the Fence were in
teresting, though. What the heck is 
Beach Party, and why does it say 20 tons 
of sand? Whats Postman? Pulse, sounds 
smooth, whats that all about? Its a 
great way to get a message out to people 
about whatever youre doing. Whats the 
one thing most everybody (who wakes 
up on time for class) sees on the way to 
class? Its huge. Its the one thing you 
can see from far away no matter which 
direction youre coming from.
The Fence just doesnt have the vi
sual space to make an ad that will catch 
the eye. Funny, didnt the author state 
earlier in the letter that his much-fa
vored bits of novelty on the Fence used to 
catch his eye? I think I dont need to
point out then that it obviously must 
have been painted big enough for him to 
read. I think from that we can deduce 
that organizations advertising on the 
Fence will be able to display at least an 
equal amount of skill when painting 
their messages.
If advertising on the Fence didnt work, 
youd have to figure that sooner or later 
over the years somebody would figure it 
out. If there wasnt a direct, immediate, 
and tangible benefit from advertising on 
the Fence, people wouldnt go through 
the extreme hassle of sleeping in the 
cold and the rain, painting every night, 
and keeping somebody on the Fence 
grounds at all times.
If you think about it for just a second, 
I believe youll agree. Really, though, 
why is the writer even concerned that 
people wont see the ads, when he him
self doesnt want to see them?
I agree with the writer to some extent, 
though, that perhaps there should be 
some conditions as to how long a group 
can hold the fence.
Its not a big enough issue for me to 
actually care about, though. If your group 
needs to host the Fence that bad, and 
you feel your message is that important, 
more power to you. Say what you need to 
say. Paint Celtic artwork on it for all I 
care. Thats what its there for. Its there 
for expression, communication, procras
tination, whatever. Its not there to please 
every single person.
Maybe, just maybe, some people dont 
care for the neat little novelties which 
interest some other people. You know 
what, though? You can still go ahead 
and paint them if you want. Somebody 
still might decide to complain, though, 
that they cant appreciate your message 
on the Fence, but who cares? It wasnt 
meant for them anyway. They cant re
late to it. You painted it for your audi
ence, and those that received your mes
sage appreciated it.
Sean Compton
Senior
ECE
Students learn process of design
Justin Cina
Heyyyy, havent seen 
you in a long time, whats 
up?
Oh nothin really, just 
chillin. How about you, 
where have you been? 
Around. So I heard you changed majors. Youre crazy, man, 
what are you in now?
Oh, I transferred into design.
Really, so you draw now.
(pause)
Um, yeah, I draw but....
What I mean is you make things look cool.
Well....
What kind of design? Graphic design? Are you going to make 
posters and stuff?
This is a common scene that presents itself to me as I try to 
explain the major that I have recently transferred into: design. 
This common reaction displays a fundamental misunderstand
ing of what design is truly about.
And although to understand what design is essentially about 
would be to understand what the design education at CMU 
really is, I am going to attempt the much smaller task of 
explaining what makes CMU design different. And ultimately, 
that which makes it different makes it CMU design. I will 
concentrate more on explaining the novel and nontraditional 
nature of CMU design.
A perfect example of a traditional definition of design is
portrayed in the dialogue above. Design as drawing; de
sign as making things look cool; design as graphic or 
industrial; design simply as some skill to achieve some 
specialized end.
This is how most of us traditionally view design, yet 
curiously, we continually designate the word design for 
seemingly separate purposes.
Sure we all say, That motorcycle has a really cool 
design, or That ad was really well-designed, but what 
about when we state that the PAT transportation system 
is poorly designed, or that history class was really welldesigned, or even that the U.S. government needs to 
redesign their approach to blah, blah, blah....?
These designs do not exist in a tangible form, yet we still 
refer to them as being designed. How can this be? And is it 
even slightly feasible that this sort of design can be taught? 
And if so, taught here at CMU?
Feasible, yes. Here at CMU, definitely. CMU design 
takes what traditionally would be crafting an object, i.e. 
utilizing a specialized skill to produce a substantial end, 
and turns it into a pt'ocess.
The students of CMU design are taught effective prob
lem-solving processes.
They are taught to think (and not think) analytically, 
expressively, and without boundaries.
They are instructed in every solution to go beyond what 
they know as being true and established to what is most 
Piease see DESIGN, page 7

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  29 September 19977
Citizens should keep the right to own guns
Last week, a 
nutball named 
Barney Soroyd 
James Stepanek flipped his lid and 
took his Chevy Suburban through a schoolyard. His intent was to kill as 
many children as possible, and he did a bang-up job. 
Using the four-wheel drive abilities of the sport utility 
vehicle (SUV), he was able to chase the kiddies all over 
the playground and hit them.
In response to this, certain members of Congress have 
introduced legislation to ban sport utility vehicles. Rep
resentative Schumer was quoted as saying No one 
really needs those off-road vehicles. Theyre like some 
sort of assault vehicle. Why would anyone really need to 
leave a road except to hit some poor soul? We have to 
save the children. Schumers legislation has called for 
approval by the Department of Transportation only of 
new vehicles which arent capable of jumping curbs or 
managing good traction on grassy surfaces. Current 
owners of SUVs will have to turn their vehicles in to be 
scrapped, and some recompense will be granted.
The above is only a ruse. Its just an example which 
might bring home to people how gun owners feel when 
they have items of theirs demonized and turned into 
contraband through no action of their own. In the world
of gun ownership, this is not an uncommon occurrence.
Just this year, Britain has completely banned all private 
ownership of handguns, rifles, and shotguns capable of 
carrying more than two rounds. Australia has also banned 
handguns and non-single shot weapons in calibers above
Neil Babra/Tartan Art Staff
.22 inches. The example of the SUVs that I fabricated 
is particularly apt because it reflects the same kind of 
knee-jerk reaction that has been the nucleus of all gun 
control legislation both here and abroad.
The UK banned all guns because some nutball shot up 
a school. Australia banned all guns because some nutball 
shot up a tourist trap. These were both tragic occur
rences, but lets face it, what did they have to do with the 
average gun owner? In both countries, there were hun
dreds of thousands of people who had responsibly owned 
their guns for years, and just used them for sport and 
recreation. Now, through no act of their own, they are 
denied the right to their property, with no course for 
redress.
This whole approach to solving violence problems is so 
ludicrous that it would be funny if it were not so wide
spread. The fact is that guns are not the problem. They 
arent capable of doing anything wrong by themselves. 
They require conscious control to do anything, either for 
good or evil. One of the main justifications for gun control 
has been, Why does anyone need a gun? Basically, 
without goinginto the possibility of riots or Armageddon, 
one does not need certain categories of guns any more 
than one needs an off-road vehicle. When did the govern
ment get to decide what you could have? This is what this 
is all really about. Its simply about freedom, and people 
who would ban my guns today are more than likely to 
come back some later day for your sportscar, SUV, 
workstation with encryption software, or any number of 
other things that you really dont need.
James Stepanek is a PhD candidate in materials science 
engineering. He welcomes all responsible replies to his column.
Designers learn to 
solve problems
DESIGN, from page 6
functional, in every sense of the 
word.
This process surely manifests 
itself in the form of 3-D and 2-D 
artifacts, but these objects are 
not the intended fruits of our 
labor. To leave CMU design un
derstanding how to make a chair 
is not the same as leaving CMU 
understanding the process that 
is required to make a difference 
in anything.
Of course I had to mention 
the forbidden word functional 
before. Implementing function
ality in our solutions and con
sidering functionality in our 
process is also an essential les
son of CMU design. More impor
tantly though, we are taught what 
functionality is. We are taught 
that it goes beyond simply the 
function of an object  what it 
does - and considers every as
pect of any problem. It is not just 
how this looks or how it works, 
but how much it will cost, what 
cultures it will affect, its envi
ronmental impact, its psycho
logical impact, its personal im
pact, etc.
It is hoped that we consider 
each and every aspect of a prob
lem before we reach a solution, 
and it is hoped that we exceed 
and consider more than any of 
those before and after us, and 
even more than we think we 
can do ourselves.
Now one may ask: So is that 
why you waste so much card
board, paper, and glue every 
year making who-knows-what 
in that CFA building  for pro
cess and functionality?
In a word, yes. In the four 
years of attendance, the stu
dents may make many objects 
look cool, and they may do a 
lot of drawing to get there, 
but what they ultimately leave 
with is the power of process.
Justin Cina is a freshman de
sign major and is really, really 
proud of that He welcomes all 
responsible replies to his column.
Ethnic clubs divide campus
Dave Liber
aback by how many organizations 
had as their philosophy the in
tent purpose of segregating the 
community. I do not mean to at
tack these organizations. I simply 
CMU Student Founds White wish to point out that these orgaMale Club. Well, no, not exactly, nizations have been founded on 
The founding of a University- the principle of serving some stu"/ was ... taken aback by how many 
organizations had... the intent pur
pose of segregating the community.
sponsored White Male Club is 
something I dont expect to see 
happening very soon, if ever. 
But why shouldnt there be one? 
There are so many organiza
tions already that cater to dif
ferent genders, minorities, 
sexual orientations, and so forth. 
Why shouldnt we as a student 
body have a White Male Club?
When walking down the bar
rage of tables at the Activities 
Fair, I was astounded at how 
many organizations there are 
here at CMU. I was also taken
dents and not the student body as 
a whole. Now, you may say that by 
spreading awareness of culture 
and identity that they are serving 
the community. But where is the 
awareness or culture? As a white 
male, I feel that these organiza
tions dont want me to participate 
in their functions. Otherwise, why 
would they have a name such as 
the Asian Student Association? 
That name doesnt make me think 
as a Caucasian that I would be 
welcomed into their ranks; Im 
not Asian. Possibly, if the organi
zation were named something 
else, such as Students for Asian 
Culture or something along 
those lines, I would feel more 
invited. The use of names such 
as Asian Student Association 
(I know there are others, I do 
not mean to just focus on the 
Asian organizations) are offen
sive in their implications of seg
regation. The names stand for 
a policy of segregation and iso
lation from the CMU commu
nity. These organizations are 
to serve some purpose to the 
community if they are to re
ceive University support. I, 
along with all my fellow white 
males who have been left out 
with no White Male club of our 
own, are calling for changes. 
Change the names; change the 
focus; change the membership; 
change the purpose. Segrega
tion is the same no matter what 
form it takes and who is the 
subject of it.
Dave Liber is an undeclared 
H&SS freshman. He welcomes all 
responsible replies to his column.
Columnist swallows his pride at Highlander
Jeff Thibert
Admitting fault, it was somewhat 
hard to come to terms with what some 
people in the Highlander taught me this 
past Thursdaythat I have a tendency 
to jump to conclusions regardingpeoples 
inner natures based solely on what they 
display to the outside world.
Did anyone else see the people in the 
Highlander foyer around dinner time 
this past Thursday? I was there around 
5:30 or 6 pm. These people had this sigh 
that said, Are Christians Hypocrites?, 
and it had a little Yes and No under
neath it. Now, think about this for a 
minute. What kind of answer do you 
think these people were expecting, and 
more importantly, what kind of people 
do you think they were?
Ill tell you what I thought. I thought 
that they were some kind of anti-Christian group, trying to attack Christianity 
(by attacking its followers), as quite a few 
people have a habit of doing. Ill bet 
others thought that, too, at first glance, 
and based on that first glance, Ill bet 
that a lot of Christians got a little of
fended, and just walked on by the people, 
slightly perturbed.
I didnt deny them the right to have a 
sign like that, but it bothered me that 
what it said was so ignorant. I was upset 
that this sign focused on Christianity 
when it could have focused on nearly any 
group, and I was upset that it made such 
a blanket statement about an entire group 
with no real justification. We call that a 
stereotype, dont we?
I imagine that a number of others felt 
the same way about these foyer people. I 
will admit, however, that I wasnt too 
upset, because the delicious pork chops 
and pasta were enough to make me for
get my feelings.
So, I blissfully ate my dinner with my 
friends, brushed by the rude people on
the way out the door, and went about my 
business. I happened to mention the 
foyer people to someone later on in the 
evening, and I was told that these people 
were, in fact, Christians, trying to pro
mote a discussion they were going to 
have on the subject. I felt pretty stupid 
for j ust assuming that these people were 
against Christianity. It didnt console 
me that a lot of others had probably 
formed the same impression, too  in 
fact, it made me realize something: Many 
of us are hypocrites, Christian or not.
Maybe this was the point the foyer 
people, the Christians, were trying to 
get across. Sure, a lot of people call 
Christians hypocrites, butis anyone else 
any different?
There are plenty of Christians and 
non-Christians alike out there who up
hold the adage that superficiality is not 
one of the most respected characteris
tics a person could have  plenty of 
people who assumed something about 
these people based on their sign, an
external signal. Even the atheists probably 
tripped up, assuming that the Christians were 
really against Christianity! These foyer people 
were crafty. So many people shunned them 
because they thought that they were some 
bunch of anti-Christian liberals, and so many 
people flocked to them for the same reason  
but all these people were wrong.
This might not seem like a big deal, but just 
think how this reflects on the way you deal with 
people. How many potentially interesting people 
have we passed up because we didnt like the way 
they looked or because they hung out with people 
we didnt like for some reason? Im sure youve 
heard all this before. Still, this might be a prime 
opportunity to think about ithow often are the 
assumptions that we make wrong, and how many 
mistakes do we make because of that error? More 
than we probably think. Even if those Christians 
were a bit tricky, they made a striking point  
maybe were all hypocrites, Christian or not.
Jeff Thibert is a freshman in the University 
Choice Program. He welcomes all responsible 
replies to his column.
A wish is a dream your heart 
makes when youre fast 
asleep. Not matter how your 
heart is dreaming, if you keep 
on believing ... you know the 
song. So anyway, we asked 
students: What do you wish 
for when you blow out your 
birthday candles ?
Laurence Solomon 
Junior
Computer Science
I wish all the candles would 
go out on the first try.
Khalid Goudeaux
Freshman
ECE
Its a secret. You are not sup
posed to tell.
Olga Massov
Freshman
H&SS Undeclared
A prosperous life.
Brian Smith/Tartan Photo Editor 
Jeremy Barnett 
Sophomore 
Drama
For Ed McMahon to come to 
my doorstep.
THETARTAN
Eclitor-in-Chief......................Sharmila
Venkatasubban
Managing Editor...................Ena Khan
Business Manager......Amit Sheth
Acting News Editor.........Daniel Arp
Forum Editor..........................Jennifer
Garcia de Osuna
Sports Editor................Chris Cannon
Features Editor...Becky A. Cowser
Diversions Editor..............Tracy Odell
Calendar Editor......Kevin AuYoung
Dossier Design Co-Editors .... Matt 
Tragresser, Kiera Westphal
Dossier Literary Editors............Lilian
Lee, Marshall Warfield
Art Editor.............................Julee White
Photo Editor................Anthony Chao
Production Manager..Kevin Babbitt 
Advertising Manager. Stephen Hsu 
Systems Manager.... Craig Soules
Copy Manager..........Victor Ortega
Asst. News Editor.. Ryan Schilling 
Asst. Forum Editor ..Rebecca Fribush
Asst. Features Editor......Anne Ray
Asst. Diversions Editor............Ryan
Donovan
Asst. Art Editor............Mark Adato
Asst. Production Mgr..........William
Holtz
Darkroom Mgr..........................Lisette
Miller-Dixon
Personnel Manager... Paul Boothe
Contributing Editors 
Kenneth Kraemer, Jay Mioila, 
Jason Siegendorf
Senior Staff 
Gil Alterovitz, Jessica Strelitz, 
Susan Watson
Staffwriters 
Max Chittister, Matt Cuccaro, Dave 
Elman, Sheila Flanagan, Charles 
Fryman, Rhonda Gillespie, Elizabeth 
Irvine, Carrie Jones-McGuire, Wladimir 
Labeikovsky, Alex Lewin, Greg Marcks, 
Maureen McGranaghan, Trevor 
Meyerowitz, Nia Rodgers, JayaSaxena, 
Scott Shell, Reena Singhal, Nathan 
Steinweld, James Stepanek, Bradley 
Zimmerman
Art
Neil Babra, Tom Birdsey, James 
Mojonnier, Tony Yu
Comics
Akira Hasegawa, Hiromi 
Hasegaawa, James Mojonnier, 
Dave Wingrove, Mike Yeh
Photo
Harold Hunt, Brian Smith
Darkroom 
Ava Bai, Eva Bai, Amy Crisostomo, 
Elias Fallon, Maria Gimenez, Daniel 
Klein, Samuel Listopad, Paul Moore, 
Diana Rutherford, Erica Yamada
Production 
Derek Greentree, Maria Manautou, 
Tammy Manski, Diana Rutherford
Copy
David Elman, Dianne Gigler, Lorelei 
Laird, Heather Keith, Helena 
McGahagan, Matthew McHenry, 
Andrew Thompson, Joanne Wei
Business 
Kevin Fine, Michael Y Kan, Toshi 
Takano, Na Y Lee, Norman Mok
Junior Staff 
Neema Avashia, Douglas Beeferman, 
Steve Bidwa, Luke Brindle, Brendan 
Bosworth, David Bazelon, James 
Carney, Rengie Chan, Susie Cribbs, 
Noah Donaldson, Ian Downey, Blake 
Engel, Anna Fortin, Andrew Francis, 
Cormac Eubanks, Filipe Fortes, Katy 
Harnes, Andrew Hollopeter, Ryan 
Kellogg, Ryan Laird, Emily Landes, 
John Lee, Seth Mandel, Anand 
Marathe, Alex Markle, Greg Nofi, Art 
Oberoi, Andrea Okerholm, Ping Pan, 
Paulette Poulle, Michael Pudup, Rob 
Punkunus, Stacey Reed, PalakShah, 
Rimas Svarcas, Stacey Tetzlaff, Jeff 
Thibert, Daniel Tseng, Michelle 
Ungerer, Joshua Walstrom, Daniel 
Wu, Seldon Yuan
The Tartan is the student newspaper of Carnegie Mellon University. It is a weekly newspaper published by students during 
the fall and spring semesters, at no cost to members of the University community. 
It is printed by Western Pennsylvania 
Printing, Inc. Subscriptions are available for the semester or academic year. The editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The Tartan editorial board. Columns 
and political cartoons are the opinions of 
individual creators. The Tartan reserves the right to reject or condense any column or political cartoon. Letters to the Editor are opinions of authors who are usually, 
but not necessarily, members of the 
University community. A letter intended forpublication must be signed and include 
the writer's address and phone number for verification. Names may be withheld upon request. The Tartan requests that 
letters be no longer than 500 words. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject any letter. Copyright  1997 by The 
Tartan. The Tartan editorial board reserves the right to withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Office: University Center Room 314 Phone: 412/ 
268-2111Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/ Carnegie Mellon University/Pittsburgh, PA 
15213-3890Email: tartan@andrew.cmu.edu Funded in part by your Activities Fee. All rights reserved. Library of 
Congress ISSN #: 0890-3107.The Tartan is a member of the Associated 
Press.4P

---------------------------------------------------

As part of Sprint's Technology Services 
group, youll play an integral part in a 
communications revolution. You'll 
bring leading-edge technology to peo
ple around the globe and help Sprint 
maintain its innovative edge over the 
competition. The nearly 6,000 
employees in Technology Services 
design, test, deploy and manage the 
worlds preeminent communications 
network. On our team, youll have the 
opportunity of a lifetimean oppor
tunity to connect people worldwide 
and explore the digital universe.
Event:Carnegie Mellon University
Information Night Presentation
Date:September 30, 1997
Time:7:00 PM 8:30 PM
Place:Room A19C, Porter Hall
For more information about 
Sprints on-campus activities, 
contact your Career Planning Office 
or visit our home page at 
http://www.sprint.com/hr
To find out how. to u/> to 60 free minutes oj Iona distance Killing, dial I -Syife(i%-N7.W. C OC M/F/DA'
M
If you want it in your 
HEAD you need it in your
A SCIITE FOR LESS 
THAN A HOTEL ROOM
Elegantly furnished one- or two-bedroom apartment suites include an equipped kitchen, 
fluffy linens, TV, VCR, cable movies, free local phone service, and reserved parking.
Conveniently located at 5405 Fifth Avenue, Shadyside. Two blocks from Walnut Streets 145 
fashionable shops and 12 delicious restaurants. One mile to CMC/Pitt/Hospitals.
DAILY, WEEKLY, MONTHLY RATES
5405 Fifth Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15232(412) 441-4444
http://Pittsburgh.net/Shadysidelnn/
.. -0 -^ Splint
is Coming to Your World...
 Mai aptfcaton suppofted on PamPiiot Professorial ort, Mai and Dponso appieations ana seme lmks to desktop software not supported on MaantosfT PalmPilot MxP.x. recured (of Macintosh connectv.ty. is son sep*ae*r. CopyHRW C1997 3Con Corporation or its suDsoanes. AN nghts reserved. 3Com. me 3Com logo, and Graffiti are registered tradcmai. and HotSync. PaftiWol. Palm OS and tue PalmPilot logo are trademarks of 3Com Corporation O' its subsidiaries aj aha brands and product names ma/ be trademarks or registered trademarks of tficir respectrve Holders.
You've got a lot on your mind. So before your brain gets to overload, 
get your hands on some help. With PalmPiloC its easy to store an 
entire college career's worth of info-names, phone numbers, 
appointments, assignments, e-mail* and more. And when you need to 
back up on your personal computer, just touch a button on the docking 
cradle and all your data is synchronized in 
seconds. At just 4.7 and 6oz, PalmPilot is more 
than a convenient electronic organizer. It's the 
buddy your overworked brains been waiting for. The Connected OrganizerPalm Pilot
PalmPilot Personal Edition 512KB memory  Back-lit display Datebook  Address book
 To-do lists  Memo pad Expense  Calculator Games _  HotSync*technology
PalmPilotProfessional Edition 1MB memory  Back-lit display Datebook  Address book
 To-do lists  Memo pad Expense  Calculator Games  E-mail Internet ready  HotSync'technology

---------------------------------------------------

A benefit performance for the School of Drama featuring L.A. Laws most 
celebrated couple, Michael Tucker (A66) and his wife, Jill Eikenberry.
TAKE TECHNOLOGY
an Francisco 55 I 
Caracas $429 
Frankfurt $491 adrid $60^
luoui ..I nr . nmuiu. ttm.ata >
^ ' It IIQbIHI. fAUS All kjUCT IB t>ICI fia  IUL Ou 101 t
fMIffll Travel _.
C1EF-: Coucil on IntcnutioaaJ 
tduciiionil Exchingt
118 Meyran Ave.
Pittsburgh
(412) 683-1881
The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  29 September 1997
Clubs bid for players wholl show them the Stanley
WATER POLO
The games are played Monday and 
Thursday nights at the University CenVOLLEYBALL
Teams are reminded to get in ros
ters for six-person volleyball. They 
are due by 4:30 pm Thursday in the 
IM office.
INTRAMURAL COACHES POLL
October 3-4,1997 
McConomy Auditorium
University Center
Majors
1. BETA
2. SAE
3. Hit Squad
Call 268-2407 or visit the Drama Box Office 
in the College of Fine Arts.
Tuesday-Friday noon to 5 p.m.
ADMINISTRATION
Director: Mike Mastroianni X8-2214; 
Assistant Director: Mike Grzywinski x8- 
2214; Intramural President: Jeff 
Jesensky x2-2830; Women's Presi
dent: Katie Gallagher x2-3363.
IMPORTANT DATES
Thursday, October 2  Intramural 
Cross Country Meet 4:30pm Flag
staff Hill.
Thursday, October 2  Soccer, 
roosball, Racquetball, Volleyball, and 
wling rosters due.
jnday, October 5  Intramural Golf 
jurnament.
uesday, October 7  Intramural Board 
neeting 11:30 am in the Gym Confer
ence room.
SPORTS IN SEASON
TOUCH FOOTBALL
Games are under way. The games will 
be played Monday through Thursday 
evenings as well as Sunday afternoon. 
Teams are reminded games are called 
at the field so plan o'n playing at sched
uled time.
Teams are also reminded that games 
that are played on the turf will be played 
even if grass games are rained out. Any 
games that are rained out will be made 
up at a later date. Teams are asked to 
check with the Intramural office for 
make-up dates.
ter pool at both 9 pm and 10 pm. 
Please follow all aquatic staff instruc
tions.
CHESS
The schedules are out and can be 
picked up Tuesday in the IM office. 
Teams are reminded to play matches 
as scheduled and to report scores to 
the IM office.
UPCOMING SPORTS
CROSS COUNTRY MEET
The IM Cross Country meet will be held 
on Thursday, October 2. Runners will 
meet on Flagstaff Hill by 4:30 pm. 
Teams of four runners and individual 
champions will be crowned.
GOLF TOURNAMENT
The 1997 IM golf tournament will be 
held October 5 at Schenley Park Golf 
Course. The green fee is $10 and club 
rental is $6.
Bring your CMU ID any time between 
7 am and 4 pm. Report scores to 
the intramural office by Friday, Oc
tober 10. Both teams consisting of
Intermediate
1. Theta Xi Blue
2. GSIA High Court
3. PKT Emeralds
4. SAE Shocker
Minors
1.Kappa Sig 
2.SAE Chad Roll 
3.Sig Tau Power Tools
4.Buttersville Bombers
5.KDR
Women Only
1.Tartan Hoopers A
2.Pioneers
3.Tartan Hoopers B
The Intramural Department is still 
looking for soccer officials. Any inter
ested person is encouraged to con
tact Mike Mastroianni at x8-2214. 
Experience is not needed, just an in
terest in sports.
Submitted by 
MIKE GRZYWINSKI 
Edited by 
CHRIS CANNON
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
CO-REC VOLLEYBALL
Playoffs begin tonight and continue 
through Thursday in the UC Gym.
TENNIS
Matches will be played on the Univer
sity Center courts Monday through 
Thursday evenings. The courts are re
served from 7 pm for matches. Sched
ules are out and can be picked up at 
the IM Office. If courts are unplayable 
due to rain, please notify the IM of
fice immediately.
Please be prompt in using the courts 
so that later matches may get started 
on time. The IM office reminds you only 
approved athletic shoes are pe-mitted 
on the courts. No sandals or rard 
shoes are allowed.
At Raytheon you'll take technology - and your career - to 
the highest possible level. You'll take it to the Nth. We'll be 
visiting your campus soon. Contact your career placement office 
now to schedule an interview, or check out our website at 
www.rayjobs.com.
by Jessica Strelitz
The cover of this weeks Sporting News 
insert on the NHL has a beaming pic
ture of Joe Sakic  I guess Id be happy 
too if I were making $17 million next 
season. Wasnt Joey making less than a 
mil two seasons ago? What a difference 
a cup makes.
But his extreme jump is not so ex
treme anymore. Since players have 
suddenly realized the mobility poten
tial of free agency and iow it trans
lated into moola for the big boys in the 
NFL and NBA, NHL salaries have 
risen the bar far above players previ
ous dreams.
Did it happen when Mario 
Lemiuex demanded $11.3 million 
for his last season? (it damn well 
better be if theyre shuffling him 
into the Hall of Fame early)
His departure opened up 
some bucks for the next 
crown prince of Pittsburgh 
Jaromir Jagr. His new con
tract guarantees him 
millionforthe next 
seven years that 
he spends in town.
The Rangers 
were looking to 
fill their own 
holes after Mark
Messier jetted for the Canucks and a 
contract worth $20 million over three 
years, with an extra $10 million for 
another two years. The New York 
team decided to acquire the con
cussion-prone Pat LaFontaine, 
who had been practicing with 
the Sabres. Now, this deal
is totally whacked  the Sabres doctors 
wouldnt clear him to play, but if 
LaFontaine is not fit to play, an insurance 
company must pay eight percent of his 
1997-98 salary of $4.8 million. LaFontaine 
has two years and almost $10 million left 
on his contract regardless.
Which brings us south to the Flyers. 
In 1992-93 Eric Lindros made $3.64 
million, still quite the hefty sum for a 
young pup. This year, his average in
creased to about $7.5 million a year, not 
a bad double of money  $60 million for 
seven years. The Flyers, apparently with 
money to burn, picked up Chris Gratton 
from the Lightning for $16.5 million 
over five years, including a $9 million 
signing bonus. They are investing in 
youth  Lindros is 24, Gratton is 22.
And youth is cashing in on good 
timing as well. The overall numberone draft choice by the Bruins, Joe
Thorton, though out for six to eight 
weeks with a fractured wrist (thanks to 
dirty old Stu Barnes  second coming 
of Ulf), is making about $3 million with 
incentives. Thorton is the highest paid 
rookie in a good many years.
Joe, Joe, I hope that hes worth it, but 
who cares. The fact that old Bruins 
general manager Harry Sinden coughed 
up that much dough for the (when 
signed) 17-year-old shows that he 
may be defrosting in the cash depart
ment. And if money buys cups, bring 
on the bank.
Jessica Strelitz is a senior professional 
writing major who is working on stop
ping her starting goalie from drinking 
too much, and this year has finally 
realized that Stacey Reed was right all 
along when she said that there was 
beauty in baseball.
four peopleand individual champs will 
be named.
Friday, October 3 at 8 p.m.
 VIP Scats @ S50 each
 Carnegie Mellon Faculty, Staff (2 per ID) or Drama Subscriber @ $20 each
 Carnegie Mellon Students @ $5 each (with valid student ID)
underwritten in part by the Division of Student Affairs
Saturday, October 4 at 8 p.m.
 VIP Seats @ S100 cach (includes post-play reception
with Michacl Tucker & Jill Eikenberry)
 Carnegie Mellon Faculty, Staff (2 per ID) or Drama Subscriber @ $20 each
 Carnegie Mellon Students @ $5 cach (with valid student ID)
underwritten in part by the Division of Student Affairs
Seating is reserved.
 MECHANICAL ENGINEERING  MATIH
When something is too extreme for words, it's to the Nth degree. 
And that's the level of technology you'll experience at Raytheon.
Raytheon has formed a new technological superpower - together, 
Raytheon Electronic Systems, Raytheon E-Systems and Raytheon 
Tl Systems are driving technology to the limit. And we're looking 
for engineers who want to push the envelope. Break new 
ground. Make their mark.
WE'LL BE ON YOUR CAMPUS ON OCTOBER 8, 1997. 
CONTACT YOUR CAREER PLACEMENT OFFICE TODAY TO SCHEDULE AN INTERVIEW.
Internet: www.rayjobs.com  E-mail: resume@rayjobs.com in.is'c
U.S. citizenship may be required. We are an equal opportunity employer. CXFfcC I (jKbA I I HIN(jbRaytheon

---------------------------------------------------

HUMANITIES
----------------- and-------------------
SOCIAL SCIENCES
Carnegie Mellon
ATTENTION STUDENTS WHO HAVE TAKEN ONE OR 
MORE COURSES WITH AN H&SS FACULTY MEMBER:
The H&SS Deans Office invites you to suggest names of H&SS faculty members for the 
College's 1997-98 Elliott Dunlap Smith Award for Distinguished Teaching and Edu
cational Service. Past winners of this award include:
1997 James Daniels, English
1996 Eugene Levy, History
1995 John Miller, Social and Decision Sciences
1994 Michael West, Modern Languages
1993 Richard Young, English
1992 Peter Steams, History
1991 Ann Hayes, English
1990 Margaret Clark, Psychology (1990 University Ryan Award Co-Winner)
1989 Richard Smith, Social and Decision Sciences
1988 Richard Schoenwald, History (1989 University Ryan Award Winner)
1987 Joel Greenhouse, Statistics (1987 University Ryan Award Winner)
1986 Ludwig Schaefer, History (1986 University Ryan Award Co-Winnerj
1985 Lois Fowler, English
1984 Steven Klepper, Social and Decision Sciences
1983 Preston Covey, Philosophy
1982 Michael Weber, History (1983 University Ryan Aiuard Winner)
1981 John R. Hayes, Psychology
1980 Granville Jones, English (1980 University Ryan Award Winner)
Nominations should consist of a letter (2 pages maximum), signed by any three faculty or 
students, submitted to Dr. Joseph Devine, Associate Dean of H&SS, Baker Hall 161 
(email address: jdOx). Nomination deadline: November 10,1997. A detailed description 
of the award criteria is available in the H&SS Academic Advisory Center (Baker Hall 
161).
Have you been awarded a
PERKINS LOAN
for the 1997-98 academic year?
k- you have, you RBS SIGN A PROMISSORY NOTE to borrow a Perkins Loan.
If you have not signed one yet, you are required to report to the
THE CARNEGIE CONFERENCE ROOM on:(first floor Warner Hall)
Wednesday October 1,1997 1:15 p.m. - 4:30 p.m.
or
Thursday October 2,1997 1:15 p.m. - 4:30 p.m.
DEAN & COMPANY
STRATEGY CONSULTANTS
 We are a rapidly growing strategic management 
consulting firm located in the Washington, DC 
area
 Our clients are Fortune 100 companies in 
dynamic industries such as consumer products, 
financial services, telecommunications, and 
utilities
 We offer top tier compensation with accelerated 
professional growth and advancement 
opportunities for Ph.D.. Master and Bachelor 
level applicants
Please join us for an Informational Meeting 
hosted by
Jim Smist
Executive Vice President
Monday, October 6, 7:00 p.m. 
Porter Hall Room 126A
Send resume and cover letter to: Recruiting Coordinator 
Dean & Company  8065 Leesburg Pike, Suite 500 
Vienna, VA 22182 703.506.3900  www.dean.com
Getting
  
Thats right folks!
Cable TV
is here and revving up for 
the big connection!
On September 30 & October l, 
Cable TV will be turned on in all 
on-campus University Housing!
For more information, please visit the Telecom website at 
http://www.telecom.cc.cmu.edu/cabletv or contact them at 268.2)00!

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  29 September 199711
Notre Dame and Pitt head in opposite directions
last year. The team returned nine 
starters on offense, including pe
rennial underachiever Ron 
Powlus at quarterback.
directions this year, much to 
nearly everyones surprise.
After a shaky opener against 
Georiga Tech, Notre Dame has
.snl isf1o
by Ryan Kellogg
! My, what a difference a year 
(makes. The end of the 1996 col
lege football season saw the end 
of coaching eras for both Notre 
Dame and the University of Pitts
burgh as Lou Holtz stepped down 
as head coach in South Bend and 
as Johnny Majors retired after 
'his second stint with the Pan'thers. Both teams replaced their 
aging coaches with young up
starts: The Irish anointed defen
sive coordinator Bob Davie to 
coach under Touchdown Jesus, 
while our good neighbors at Pitts
burgh went with Walt Harris.
\ Both teams began the season 
with guarded optimism. At Notre 
Dame, the Irish faithful hoped to 
i return to glory after three straight 
seasons out of the top ten and 
finishing with only a number 
18 ranking with an 8-3 record
\
!/ 1
(YmJ \
J Y \ 
'/ \ \
Jj/to \ -/ hi \
K ~
ou s xiy a
At Pitt, where optimism has 
always been guarded of late, fans 
hoped that new uniforms, a new 
panther logo, and a revamped 
stadium would signal a fresh 
beginning for a team that last 
season went 4-7 and was 
outscored by 216 points. Despite 
these similarities, the vaunted 
Irish and the get-no-respect Pan
thers have headed in opposite
Tony Yu/Tartan Art Staff
lost three straight games. Two 
were to ranked teams, but a third 
was to their usual whipping boy, 
Purdue. The 21-14 loss to num
ber 6 Michigan on Saturday 
dropped them to 1-3. While some 
point to the game as a sign that 
they are not as bad as everyone 
thinks, it was more a sign that 
Notre Dame is bad and that 
Michigan isnt a number 6 team.
Down a touchdown in the fourth 
quarter, Notre Dame couldnt 
capitalize on three straight Michi
gan fumbles. The Wolverine de
fense forced a punt and an inter
ception, and stopped Notre Dame 
on a critical 4th and two with 
two and a half minutes left to 
seal the game.
Whod have thought 
that after four games 
Pittsburgh would be re
ceiving more votes than 
Notre Dame in both 
polls? Pittsburgh is 31, 
a win shy of their vic
tory total from last year, 
with their only loss coming 
against number two Penn State 
by 17 points.
Whod have believed that the 
Panthers would upset thenranked Miami in their homecom
ing game two weeks ago? The 
turnaround has the Panthers sec
ond to Virginia Tech in the Big 
East, and looking at their sched
ule its not insanity to picture 
them in a bowl game.
Theyll finish at least 6-5 with 
games against Temple (next Sat
urday), Rutgers, and Boston Col
lege still to come, and they face 
number 12 Virginia Tech as the
only ranked team remaining on 
their schedule.
Notre Dame could easily finish 
with the same record as Pitts
burgh. The Irish still face two 
more ranked opponents (number 
22 Stanford and number 15 Loui
siana State), as well as tough 
squads from West Virginia and
Michigan and Stanford the pre
vious two Saturdays, while Pitts
burgh will be coming off a bye 
week and Temple.
Finally, the game will be played 
in Pittsburgh  if you have any 
questions about the difference 
that makes, just ask Miami. The 
Pittsburgh-Notre Dame game
Whod have thought that after four games 
Pittsburgh would be receiving more votes 
than Notre Dame in both polls?
Southern California. The really 
scary thing is that Pittsburgh 
could actually be better than Notre 
Dame, a mystery that will be 
solved in two weeks when the 
teams face each other.
Last year, Notre Dame blew 
out Pittsburgh 60-6, but now the 
teams are much more evenly 
matched on both offense and de
fense. The Pete Gonzalez-led Pan
thers have matched Ron Powlus 
at 357 yards per game. Defen
sively, Pittsburgh has allowed 
only 21 yards more per game than 
the Irish. When the two teams 
meet, Notre Dame will have faced
will be pivotal for both teams. A 
Panther win would reinforce their 
already-growing confidence and 
put them in position to challenge 
Big East rivals Syracuse and West 
Virginia late in the season. A 
Notre Dame loss would likely 
mean a losing season for the Irish 
and ice skating for the condemned 
souls in Hell. In a season that has 
already seen more than its share 
of upsets, anything can happen.
Ryan Kellogg is a sophomore 
electrical and computer engineer
ing major. He welcomes all irre
sponsible responses to his column.
Tartans massacre Kent State in rugby
FORFEIT, from page 12
' iarity forthegame, puts rugby low 
on the list of priorities for some 
members of the team. I cant 
blame someone for putting school 
work before rugby, said Lee.
1 I have a lot of conflicting 
emotions about playing rugby 
j at CMU. Its hard, said Trezza. 
Its something that requires 
you to put your heart and soul 
into it to do it well. Its some' thing that comes from inside or 
'something that comes logi
cally, he said.
[ The team is trying to live up to 
Its past reputation as a top notch 
rugby program. In 1993 and 
; 1994, the team won the Division
II midwest title. Weve had a 
great program over the past few 
years. Were trying to get back to 
where we were, said Gingras.
Geoffroy De Carbonnel, the 
teams new coach and a graduate
to the team, said Lee.
For this season, the team is 
hoping to finish with a decent 
record. Their primary goal is to 
build a strong team for next 
Fall. A couple more weeks and
Its something that requires you 
to put your hear and soul into it.
 Carl Trezza, senior scrum captain
Studentin industrial administra
tion is attempting to strengthen 
the team by leading various drills 
and concentrating on overall fit
ness. Geoff s a real asset to the 
team. He adds a new perspective
well have a win, said Trezza.
This week, they anticipates a 
difficult game against Salem 
Tekayo, a Japanese school in West 
Virginia. Trezza said, Asian 
rugby players are awesome.
Jason Slegendorf/Tartan Contributing Editor 
Kent State sat out the game against CMU.
Stars skate past 
hobbled Tartans
STARS, from page 12
team. Sophomore PJ Grzywacz 
was absent due to an ankle 
injury, but he hopes to be skat
ing again by next week. Jun
ior forward Andy Oxnard tore 
his ACL earlier in the week 
playing intramural football, 
an injury which has plagued 
him before and may end the 
players season. Their pres
ence and leadership was 
much missed.
The all-rookie forward line 
of Rick Ebert, Matt Davidson, 
and Matt Bouton saw a sub
stantial amount of playing 
time, as did rookie sophomore 
Chris Dock and freshman 
defenseman Harry Tsang. 
But none of them are yet 
showing the flashes of bril
liance that squads in the past 
have demonstrated.
Its a new season. We need 
a little time to bring the 
team together, but we will 
be OK. We have a lot of good 
players to replace, were 
gonna have to have some 
people step up and fill those 
roles, said Maddalena.
keesin 1961. McGwire blasted his 56th 
and 57th home runs Saturday and on 
Sunday needed to hit four homers in a 
game, a feat that has been accomplished 
just 12 times in baseball history. He 
settled for a sixth inning homer off 
Chicago's Steve Trachsel as the Cards 
slipped past the Cubs, 2-1.
2. "This team played with its heart, 
that's why we won," Ballesteros said. 
American captain Tom Kite said his 
team's inexperience ontheValderrama 
course in Spain was a key factor in the 
U.S. loss.
Heats center has 
Europeans beat surgery on knee
McGwire homers 4^ 'n ^up 
in season finale
St. Louis (Reuters)  The revered 
home run record of Roger Maris re
mains safe for another year. Mark 
McGwire hit home run number 58 
Sunday, but the St. Louis Cardinals 
slugger still fell three short of the 61 
hit by Maris for the New York YanSpain (Reuters)  Europe retained 
the Ryder Cup Sunday after beating 
back a spectacular late charge by the 
U.S. team. European captain Seve 
Ballesteros fulfilled his dream of vic
tory at home as his team, 
comprised of members from nine dif
ferent countries, retained the trophy 
by the same score with which they won 
it two years ago, 14 1/2 points to 13 1/
Miami (Reuters)  The NBA's Mi
ami Heat will start their season 
without their starting center, AllStar Alonzo Mourning. Mourning 
had surgery to repair a partial tear of 
a tendon, which was discovered dur
ing a pre-season physical, and is ex
pected to be out of action for eight to 
12 weeks.
'The Heat are hopeful Mourning will 
make a late November or early Decem
ber return.
Alumni win annual game
ALUMNI, from page 12 alumni team. They did pretty well,
Katherine Morrison, wasnt able to Haggerty said of the undergradumake the game. Trendels soccer expe- ate team. We didnt have enough
everybody there. 
They did a pretty 
good job of coach
ing themselves. 
CMU will get a 
chance for revenge 
earlier than usual. 
The annual game is 
being moved to the 
spring, sometime 
around Carnival, in 
order to get more 
alumni to play.
I wanted to keep 
coaching them in
stead, Haggerty 
said. They all think 
Im a traitor.
rience is limited.
I did play goal
keeper in
intramurals, said 
Trendel, who was 
the mens basket
ball teams start
ing centerlast sea
son.
Its fun, said 
womens coach 
Ann Haggerty of 
the game, which 
doesnt count in 
the teams official 
standings. 
Haggerty played 
sweeper for the
Brian Smith/Tartan Photo Staff 
A team of CMUs alumni battle the 
womens soccer team Sunday.
YOU WONT FIND HIM 
IN OUR STORE...
BUT YOU WILL FIND $8 CDS 3 FOR $20.
C.D. TRADER
BUY  SELL  TRADE  RESERVE
NOW FEATURING USED VIDEOS
201 SOUTH CRAIG  OAKLAND  412-687-6626 - and - 
2001 PENN AVE  STRIP DISTRICT  (Every Saturday)
SEPTEMBER SPECIAL:
Free poster with purchase and CMU ID
classified
IOBS IN THE GLOBAL MARKET.
Being Asian bilingual is your ticket to success.
Interview with the worlds top companies at the Pan-Asian Job Fair, including:
Adobe Systems, Exxon, Fidelity Investments, Johnson & Johnson, Procter & Gamble, and more !
Oct. 17-18,1997*
Jacob K. Javits Convention Center 
655 West 34th Street N.Y.C.
* Oct 18 il Only for Japanese speaking bilinguals 
To register or get more information, contact
International Career Information Inc.
Phone: 1-800-859-8535  http://www.rici.com/acw  e-mail: jfinfo@rici.com
China  Hong Kong  India  Indonesia  Japan  Korea  Malaysia  Philippines  Singapore  Taiwan  Thailand  Vietnam
PAN-ASIAN IOB FAIR
HOUSING
Several efficiencies for rent. $390/month 
includes all utilities, semi-furnished, and 
new carpeting. 549 Neville St. Call Ted 
963-9721.
JOBS
Excellent extra income now. Envelope 
stuffing. $600-5800 every week. Free 
details: SASE to International Inc., 1375 
Coney Island Ave., Brooklyn, New York 
11230.
Polygram Group Distribution is looking 
for College Reps in Pittsburgh. This is a 
paid position dealing with college radio, 
press, music retail, student activities, 
marketing opportunities, and more. All 
applicants must show proof of student 
status at a college or university. Inter
ested students should mail 2 copies of 
resume to: PCD, 825 8th Ave., 20th FI., 
New York, NY 10019, Attn. Rebecca 
Carroll. No phone calls, please.
.Innovative Retail P-T, weekend primarily, 
Paint-Your-Own Ceramics Studio, artistic, 
responsible, fun. 688-9892
Waiters/Waitresses- Part-time for private 
club in Oakland. $5.25 to $6.00 per hour. 
Free meal included. Call 621 -2353 between 
10:00 pm and 2:00 pm. Monday through 
Friday.
Earn free trips St cash. Class Travel needs 
students to promote spring break 1998. Sell 
15 trips and travel free. Highly motivated 
students can earn a free trip & over 
$10,000. Choose Cancn, Bahamas, 
Mazatlan, Jamaica or Florida. North 
America's largest student tour operator. Call 
now. 1-800-838-6411.
Mature person for retail sales November 
and December. Mostly evenings at 
Monroeville Mall. Transportation and ref
erences necessary. Lots of fun and good 
money. Call Erica at 781 -7171.
Misc
Weekend retreat. Saturday-Sunday, Octo
ber 18-19. Find guidance and answers 
within. http://members. aoicom/tatsociety. 
Phone 464-1 336
Music
Simply CD Music goes MLM. Fee $89. CDs 
$10 shipped to you. Pays 60%. Call for 
appt. Suzen 856-7214.
Classified Rates
1-20 words..........$10.00/wk
21-50 words..........$12.00/wk
51-100 words.......$15.00/wk
MAIL TO:
The Tartan, Boxi 7 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
 Classifieds must be paid in cash or 
check before first run date
 On-campus departments and 
organizations may pay by journal 
transfer
 Due by 5 pm the Thursday before
publication____________________________
THE TARTAN 
268-2111

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
Volume 92, Issue 5The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh. Pennsylvania29 September 1997
Kent State forfeits 
rugby match-up
Its hard to just start playing rugby. 
Youneed to knowthegame,"said Gingras.
The team tries to practice two or 
three times a week. According to 
Gingras, an average of only 15 players 
come out for each practice, making it 
difficult to scrimmage. The team has 
the physical ability to be a great team, 
but they dont want to put the work 
in, said Gingras.
Greg Lee, an undecided first year 
student, has been playing rugby for
By ENA KHAN
Tartan Managing Editor
The CMU rugby team got a free 
win Saturday morning after Kent 
State forfeited the teams third game 
of the season. With many new play
ers, the team is struggling to im
prove its 1-2 record.
The game was originally scheduled 
for 1 pm, but was moved up to 11 am 
because a referee could not be found for 
the later time. Only six members of the the past four years in high school. For 
Kent State team were available to make some people, its harder to get worked 
the game at 11 am, forcing the team to up about the game. Thats maybe the 
forfeit the game. difference between me and someone
[The forfeit] helps us but we wouldve whos new to the game, he said. 
ratherbeatenthem,saidMikeGingras, The overwhelming workload at 
president of the CMU rugby team and a CMU, combined with a lack of familsenior materials science and engineer- Please see FORFEIT, page 11
ing major. We 
need the experi
ence', he said.
After various 
attempts to re
cruit new players, 
the team cur
rently has about 
25 members. The 
majority, how
ever, are new to 
the sport. We 
have a lot of raw 
talent  I mean 
extremely raw, 
said Carl Trezza, 
the teams scrum 
captain and a se
nior professional 
writing major.
Jason Siegendorf/Tartan Contributing Editor 
Carl Trezza runs with the ball in Saturday afternoon's 
scrimmage after Kent State forfeited the game.
Alumni win with late goals
By CHRIS CANNON
Tartan Sports Editor
Its always a little intimidating, said 
Sonya Chmielnicki (93 Chem E) of play
ing against CMUs current team in the 
annual alumni 
game.
The alumni team 
beat the CMU 
womens soccer 
team 2-0 in the 
game, held Sunday 
at Gesling Sta
dium.
The alumni 
looked sharper at 
the start, gaining 
the first scoring 
chance. Nicole 
Poisson (96 profes
sional writing) got 
the first shot on 
goal, a soft liner 
that was easily 
stopped. The CMU 
team seemed to be 
off-balance playing 
against the alumni, 
but came back 
strong in the secate team broke their huddle before the 
game to a chant of Beat the geezers! 
The team coached themselves and some 
players played out of position, so that 
their teammates could have more play
ing time.
Chris Cannon/Tartan Sports Editor
CMU Alumni take a break between quarters of the womens soccer game Sunday.
the net with a crisp ground-shot from 
the left side.
The game is almost secondary until 
the day of, said Chmielnicki, who works 
for the DoD at an environmental firm in 
Philadelphia. She stays in shape at home 
by playing soccer 
and refereeing. 
Many of the women 
keep in touch 
through soccer.
CMU soccers 
what kept us all in 
school, said 
Chmielnicki.
The second goal 
came soon after, as 
Poisson sent a 
high looping shot 
up and into the top 
left corner of the 
net. Poisson was 
fed on the play by 
Christina Isaly 
(95 BHA). Pois
son, Isaly, and 
Bridget Caster 
(96 Civ E) all keep 
in touch by play
ing soccer.
We play every
ond quarter. CMU seemed to out-hustle The goals didnt come until late in the Wednesday, said Caster. They particithe alumni at times, but the more expe- fourth quarter, as both teams battled pate in an indoor league at Chelsea Piers 
rienced team placed their passes better back and forth the entire game. The in New York City.
Jill Sincaglia (97 BHA), 
Jessica Strieker (94 math
ematics), and Julie Paul 
(95 architecture) all still 
live in Pittsburgh and 
played on the team.
The goalkeeper duties 
were assumed by Gary 
Trendel (97 Civ E), who now works as a 
field engineer for BOC gases in Pittsand held control of the ball to 
negate this. The game was 
played in four 20-minute quar
ters, instead of the usual 45- 
minute halves, and it seemed 
the alumni benefitted from the 
extra rest.
The game was friendly and 
good-spirited. The alumni filled the game 
with random shouts, including Who
The game is almost secondary until 
the day of."
 Sonya Chmielnicki, 93 Chem E
Hockey falls to 
Pitt Stars on ice
By JESSICA STRELITZ
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
The CMU ice hockey club made 
their debut of the 1997-98 sea
son on Saturday night, getting 
whipped by the Pittsburgh 
Stars, 10-1. After only three 
practices and losing 90 percent 
of their scoring capacity from 
the previous season, this squad 
is going to have a rocky road 
ahead in the Western Pennsyl
vania Collegiate Hockey Asso
ciation if some big players step 
to the forefront.
There is little to say about a 
team that loses their first outing 
by that much. Just delve in to 
the stats. The Tartans were
going to be skating with in prac
tice, to find out what all of our 
expectations are, said winger 
Adam Duncan, a grad student. 
Duncan had three of CMUs 
shots on the night and tended to 
scrum a bit in the corners, also 
racking up the first penalty min
utes of CMUs year during the 
final minutes of the first.
Defensive coach Matt Will
iams was not discouraged by the 
work of his unit, but echoed the 
sentiments of the team on the 
ultimate wall of defense.
[Goaltender] Gil [Min] didnt 
stand a chance out there. He 
played well behind a sometimes 
shaky defense.
Were a long way from last
Were a long way from last year. 
We need to improve everyone, me, 
the team. But well get there.
Gil Min, Tartan goaltender
outshot 58-9. CMUs only goal 
came on a rush by senior Scott 
Fitzgerald the first 30 seconds 
of the game and the game went 
downhill quickly from there. The 
Stars scored five unanswered 
goals in the first period alone.
Then look deeper. Why all of 
the holes? Carnegie Mellon 
graduated five seniors last year 
that were the nucleus of a team 
that has not missed the play
offs for almost a decade. Sev
eral freshmen and rookies have 
joined the team; a total of 10 saw 
playing time on Saturday night. 
New faces need time to adjust to 
a college playing system; new 
lines need time to mesh.
The offense couldnt hold the 
puck long enough to really 
handle it effectively. It was a 
matter of touching, trying to con
trol and either getting stripped 
or making errant pass. Most of 
the play was in CMUs defensive 
zone and that was certainly 
where all of the action was.
We need more up front. I will 
work closer with people that Im
year. We need to improve every
one, me, the team. But well get 
there, said Min, who held the 
Stars scoreless in the second pe
riod despite their 19 shots.
We should have carried him 
off of the ice, said head coach 
Fred Maddalena about Mins 
game. There were too many 
good shots for him to have made 
all of those saves.
Senior defenseman Paul 
Voulgaris and senior winger 
Jon Berkowitz were the only 
players making an impact on 
the Stars with their checking. 
Rookie Berkowitz flew around 
the ice, using speed to his ad
vantage to sneak well-placed 
nips on the offense. Voulgaris 
was an all-over ice threat, work
ing the body cleanly and evenly 
throughout the entire game. 
Nonetheless, the Stars racked 
up 30 minutes in penalties and a 
10 minute misconduct, scoring 
two shorthanded goals in the 
third period alone.
Injury has clearly affected the 
Please see HOCKEY, page 11
alumni had shown the ability to get the 
ball deep in CMUs territory all game, 
ideawasitto eat at Eat and Park? from but never got a clear shot off. This was burgh. The alumnis usual goalie, 
one tired alumnus. CMUs undergradu- true until Chmielnicki found the back of Please see ALUMNI, page 11Team grabs first win, loses thrice
By STACEY REED
Tartan Junior Staffwriter 
& JESSICA STRELITZ
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
Lets play some ball! This week
end, the baseball club played two 
sets of doubleheaders, finally 
bringing home a win from their 
game against Franciscan Univer
sity on Saturday. The four games 
this weekend were a mix of the 
team at its best and its worst.
On Saturday, the first game of 
the double header ended after 
the top of the fifth inning, when 
the mercy rule was used, in favor 
of the opposing team. (Meaning 
that once one team is winning by 
ten or more runs, the game is 
called.) The final of this game 
was 15-3, Franciscan University.
This game was lost due to too 
many fielding errors. A total of 
seven were made during the five 
innings. Our defense is killing 
us, said Coach Bob Janeda.
The second game showed much 
more promise. Ramon Poo, Jon 
Mayes, and Steven Wetter all
scored in the first inning. Wetter 
hit well throughout the game, as 
did second baseman Mike 
Porpora, who racked up two 
singles and a double. The tables 
had turned, and the team came 
back to win 15-4, ending the game 
at the bottom of the sixth, again 
due to the mercy rule. This time 
the rule was used in CMUs faThe second set of games was 
played against Westmoreland 
County Community College on 
Sunday afternoon. The doubleheader had disappointing results, 
each game ending in a mercy rul
ing for the opponent after five 
innings. The score was 13-3 for 
both games.
In the second game, Steven
"Our pitching is good, but when 
youre making errors, you cant win 
games. 
 baseball coach Bob Janeda
vor, marking the first win of their 
fall season.
Steven Wetter pitched the en
tire game and did not give up a 
run until the fourth inning. Coach 
Janeda was impressed with his 
performance, and is confident with 
his pitching staff. The rest of the 
team was backing up their pitcher 
during this game; the number of 
fielding errors dropped to three.
Wetter started and pitched un
til the bottom of the fourth in
ning. His performance was ontarget, even after being hit in 
the shin by a grounder in the 
bottom of the third inning. Jay 
McCormack replaced him and 
finished the game.
Problems in the field were due 
partially to a lack of communica
tion on the part of the players,
but the Westmoreland team knew 
where the holes were and were 
able to get on base nearly every 
time. Many dramatic dives came 
up empty-handed, simply because 
the players could not cover all of 
their territory.
Some teams use distraction tac
tics to try to upset the batter. The 
players seemed to be impervious 
to this heckling, despite the fact 
that a Jerry Lewis impersonator 
was playing shortstop for 
Westmoreland. The perfor
mances at the plate were nothing 
to be scoffed at. Tyler Burke and 
Jay McCormack both showed 
promise in their offensive games.
Offense has improved consid
erably since the first games of the 
season. Unfortunately, the teams 
defense is still lacking. Coach Bob 
Janeda was convinced that this 
is what is holding the team back.
Our pitching is good, but when 
youre making errors, you cant 
win games, said Janeda. Be
cause of this fielding problem, 
Janeda is planning some tough 
defensive practice for this week.
Crew gains new coach
By HERAIN OBEROI
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Elizabeth Winter, coach and founder 
of the University Rowing Club (Crew) 
since1987, resigned last year to pursue 
further studies in Psychcology. 
Cassandra Hadley and Chris Maples, 
who were the assisting coaches as well 
as members of Crew, had to shoulder 
Winters responsibilities all of last year.
Inspite of such odds, the whole team 
placed in their last race at Charleston, 
West Virginia to close their season with 
a tally of two medals for the women and 
six for the men. Hadley is now coaching 
at Robert Morris College downtown, 
and Maples has left for Medical school.
This year Dean Taylor is the new 
Crew coach, and the most recent mem
ber of the athletic faculty. Taylor has 
been in the sport for the last 14 years, 
has coached at numerous clubs and 
colleges in Canada such as St. 
Catherines club and the University of 
Waterloo. I am looking forward to be
ing here and am really happy to be 
associated with a group of such fine and 
dedicated students, said Taylor. Tay
lor, a former member of the Canadian
national team, has had a fair amount of 
coaching experience as well as a good 
familiarity with the Canadian circuit.
Although he has not coached in U.S. 
colleges before, Taylor says that although 
the coaching aspect is routine for him. 
This year will be a learning experience, 
as far as the competitive circuit goes. 
According to Taylor, the team has great 
potential to be competitive and improve 
on last years medal tally.
Crew members practice from 5:45 am 
to 7:30 am six days a week, organise 
fundraisers such as stadium clean-ups^, 
Ergomania, face-painting during spring\ 
carnival, and even sandwich selling. 
With all that enthusiasm and dedica
tion, they definitely deserve all the 
support they can get.
According to Taylor workout sched
ule has been designed and hopes to have 
an interesting first semester. Crew mem
bers describe Taylor as Experienced, 
Organized and Confident and feel that 
their technique has been improving.
The team will compete six to seven 
times this semester, of which their 
first race will be down by the Ohio 
on October 4 which also happens to 
be the 10th anniversary of Crew.
Back Off...
Brian Smith/Tartan Photo Staff 
The mens soccer team kept Point Park off their 
backs with a 4-0 win Saturday night. They next host 
Grove City, Tuesday at 7:30 pm.

---------------------------------------------------

Volume 92, Issue 5 The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 29 September 1997
Cash in on the opportunities
Everyone knows that education is expensive. Th 
tuition alone for a CMU student is $20,000 a year.
So, how does a returning student fund oneself 
throughout college?
One place that students can turn is the Office 
of Scholarships and Fellowships (OSF). This of
fice essentially serves as a scholarship counselor 
for students in search of money.
What we do is try to link people to possibilitie 
down the road. The first-year student wouldnt re
ally find anything in our database, because people 
dont really throw scholarship money at first-yeai 
students, said Tom Keating, director of the OSF 
In most cases these foundations are not just looking 
for people with high grades. If that were the case 
theyd give money to only people with 4.0s and no 01 
else would get any money.
The OSF started over a year ago when there re 
was no comprehensive resource for students seard 
for funding. According to Keating, the office began 
with a list of scholarships that was over 200 
pages long. They would photocopy the document 
for students, but when that became inefficient 
they established an electronic bboard.
Currently the office has launched a Web site 
backed by a database of 350 scholarships from 
outside sources.
Grants are another source of money that CMU 
has to offer, but grants are found on a much more 
specific level.
One such grant is the Judith Resnik Award 
for Women in Science and Technology, said 
Robert Kail, associate dean of the College of 
Engineering. CIT is not a college that gives 
grants to students. All of our undergraduate 
students who need [or] receive aid in the form of 
grants... do so through the University Financial 
Aid Office. The University Financial Aid Office 
does earmark particular grants for CIT stu
dents, he said.
Students can also find funding when studying 
abroad. The College of Humanities and Social
Sciences (H&SS) offers grants to students who are considering foreign 
study programs. These grants are the Buerger scholarships and are 
usually awarded to three or four students a year.
The idea is to tty and help with some of the extra expenses that study 
abroad can entail, said Dean of H&SS Peter Stearns.
Partly, we have the good fortune of having a small endowment, but we 
do think [funding study abroad] is a priority because ... studying abroad 
can enhance many majors in the college. Were anxious to encourage the 
[study abroad] process.
Eva Mergner, a study abroad advisor in the Office of International 
Education, explained that students cannot receive institutional funding 
when studying abroad.
She further explained that it is only possible to transfer federal and 
state aid. This causes problems for students who have a hard time trying 
to finance foreign study.
Some students just cant go unless they receive a grant, said Mergner.
Michael Murphy, dean of Student Affairs, recommends that stu
dents talk to an advisor at The HUB if they are facing unexpected 
financial difficulties.
We do have emergency student loan funds, available in the associate 
deans office, which are small loans specifically for unforeseen emergen
cies. These funds have been donated by alumni to ensure students have 
some relief in a crisis, said Murphy.
Although paying for college can sometimes seem to be a painful 
process, there are many campus resources available to students if 
they look hard enough.
Fellowships build vital bonds
By ANNE RAY
Tartan Assistant Features Editor
For Mike Montemerlo, the decision to 
come to CMU was all about money.
Like many who come through this institu
tion, the price is an important concern. Some
times, the only way to reduce the monetary 
burden is without outside help, which is 
what Montemerlo, a PhD candidate in-electrical and computer engineering, used. He is 
one of several at CMU lucky enough to be 
awarded a fellowship.
When I applied to college in the begin
ning, I applied to CMU, Rice, and Virginia 
Tech, said Montemerlo. My parents told 
me that I couldnt go to CMU unless I 
reduced the price.
Montemerlo found funds by finding schol
arships so he could initially attend CMU, 
like the B arry Goldwater Scholarship. Now,
he was recently awarded with the Hertz 
Fellowship, which will allow him to con
tinue attending CMU to get a PhD.
So toward the end of my senior 
year, when I received the Goldwater 
scholarship, it reduced the strain on 
my parents, said Montemerlo. Be
cause my brother and sister would 
be going to college, they needed to 
have the same opportunity, finan
cially, to go to a good college. 
Fellowships generally have an application 
process that candidates have to go through, 
and can pay for as much as four years of school, 
or even longer in terms of graduate school.
For Grant Bromhal, a PhD candidate in 
civil and environmental engineering, having 
a fellowship means one less worry for his 
academic career.
Please see FELLOWSHIPS, page L3
"CMU has done its part, now its up to the 
student to go out and apply and get the fellow
ship. What do you have to lose?
 Mike Montemerlo, PhD candidate 
_________in electrical and computer engineering
Students reap the rewards of University scholarships
By ANAND MARATHE
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Students apply for scholarships 
and fellowships for different rea
sons, but one aspect they all share is 
that they benefit in some way from 
receiving the award. Often, students 
recognize the benefit that can be 
gained from the monetary aspect of 
receiving a scholarship, but under
estimate the intangible experiences 
that come with earning scholarships. 
At CMU, students have access to 
many of the most prestigious schol
arships that provide both experi
ence and funding.
One of the most comprehensive 
scholarships offered to certain 
CMU students is the Intel Foun
dation Women in Science and En
gineering Scholarship. It pays for 
tuition, fees, and books.
I think [the Intel Scholarship] 
changed my life because it wasnt as
much of a burden for [my] parents to 
pay for college, said Kendra McCoy, a 
senior chemical engineering major and 
one of the latest recipients of the Intel 
Foundation Women in Science and En
gineering award.
I already had a scholarship through 
the school, but it was not a full scholar
ship. Basically my goal 
was to have my par
ents not have 
to pay for
my education, she said.
[The Intel Scholarship] hasnt ' 
changed my life at CMU, but has 
had an effect on my career path 
choices, said Stephanie Postal, a 
fifth-year electrical and computer en
gineering major.
All art this page by Nell Babra/Tartan Art Staff
Another beneficial educational fund
ing opportunity for students is the 
Merck Fellowship, not only because it 
provides financial rewards, but also 
because it offers experience.
The [Merck] Fellowship program 
is set up so you dont have any par
ticular commitments. You have a 
summer internship, [but] there is no 
commitment after you graduate, 
said Nesta So, one of the recent 
recipients of the Merck Fellow
ship and a junior in informa
tion systems.
When she was applying for 
the fellowship, So was look
ing more for the experience 
rather than the money.
I didnt have financial 
aid or anything, so the im
portance of money didnt 
hit me at the time I ap
plied. But when the money 
came, I realized that it was a 
big deal, said So.
So is an international student, 
and many CMU scholarships are 
only for U.S. residents. The Merck 
Fellowship is open to international 
students, which allowed her to ap
ply. Other reasons So gave for ap
plying included the fact that there 
was no commitment and that there 
were no definite proposals required 
to apply.
If I hadnt gotten the scholar
ship ... I would have been more 
thrifty with everything. If I hadnt 
gotten the scholarship, it would 
have added another layer of stress 
as far as money is concerned, 
said McCoy.
Postal might have even trans
ferred out of CMU had she not got
ten the scholarship.
Funding plays a crucial role in 
many students lives at CMU. Schol
arships help students to decide 
about their future, not just here at 
CMU but also after graduation.
By ANDREW HOLLOPETER
Tartan Junior Staffwriter

---------------------------------------------------

College Briefs
COLLEGE OF 
FINE AKTS
Ryszard Kluszczynski, a Polish 
design critic and theoretician, will 
speak on the topic of Theoretical 
Look at Electronic Media and Art 
on Tuesday, September 30, at 6:30 
pm in CFA 303 (formerly 314c). 
The lecture is sponsored by the 
School of Art and the STUDIO for 
Creative Inquiry.
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE 
OF TECHNOLOGY
The Academic Development Cen
ter is offering workshops that offer 
students practical ways to bring up 
QPAs while helping to get the maxi
mum benefit out of classes. There 
are several sessions, including Sep
tember 30, October 7,14, and 21 on 
Tuesdays at 5 pm.
Topics include: test taking, lec
tures and notes, textbook reading, 
time management, and memory 
improvement.
Workshops are free to CMU stu
dents. Register by calling Academic 
Development at x8r6878 in 159 
Building D.
GRADUATE SCHOOL OF 
INDUSTRIAL ADMINISTRATION
Daniel J. Dudek, of the 
Enviornmental Defense Fund in 
New York, will present a lecture 
entitled Markets By Design at 6 
pm on Wednesday, October 1, in 
2503 Hamburg Hall. Dudek worked 
as a professor at the University of 
Massachusetts and for the U.S. gov
ernment as an agricultural econo
mist. He developed plans for EDF 
to eliminate acid rain, which were 
supported by the Senate. He has 
also researched the impact of cli
mate change on agriculture.
In addition, on Friday, October
10, from 10 am to 3 pm, there will be 
a graduate and professional school 
fair at the University of Pittsburgh, 
at the William Pitt Union. Students 
will have the opportunity to meet 
with representatives from medicine 
and law schools, among others from 
around the country.
HUMANITIES & 
SOCIAL SCIENCES
On Wednesday, October 1, Earl 
Miller, of the Massachusetts Insti
tute of Technology, will speak on the 
topic of Neural mechanisms for 
working memory and cognition. Thp 
lecture is part of the Psychology 
Department Colloquium Series. It 
is free and open to the public. All 
lectures in the series will be held on 
Wednesdays in Baker Hall 355. For 
more information, call x8-3153.
MELLON COLLEGE 
OF SCIENCE
Graduate students merge at social gatherings
The next seminar for the 1997 
Department of Chemistry Fall Semi
nar Series will be held on Tuesday, 
September 30 at 4:45 pm in the 
Mellon Institute Conference Room, 
third floor. Professor Mark 
Hollingsworth of Indiana Univer
sity will speak on the topic of Crys
tal Growth and Comain Switching 
of Organic Inclusion Compounds. 
For more information, please con
tact Ann Follette (afls@and.rew).
SCHOOL OF 
COMPUTER SCIENCE
This Wednesday, October 1, at 
3:30 pm, Manuela Veloso, a member 
of the winning CMUnited robotics 
team at RoboCup 97, will be speak
ing in 5409 Wean Hall. She will be 
speaking on the topic of Towards 
Continuous Planning, Execution, 
and Learning in Agent Systems: A 
Team of Robotic Soccer Agents.
In addition, accompanying the lec
ture, there will be a robotics demon
stration in 2300A Porter Hall the 
same day at noon.
By RHONDA GILLESPIE
Tartan Staffwriter
Beginning this year, graduate stu
dents from CMU and the University of 
Pittsburgh will be spending less time 
alone studying on some Saturday 
nights. Instead, many of them will par
ticipate in the CMU/Pitt Merge Par
ties.
Held about once each month, the 
Merge is sponsored by the Graduate 
Student Assembly (GSA) at CMU, and 
the Graduate and Professional Student 
Association (GPSA) at Pitt. It is an 
opportunity for graduate students at 
both schools to come together, get to 
know each other, dance, eat, and make 
potentially long-lasting connections.
The first Merge was held over the 
summer. Representatives from GSA 
deemed it a success. In addition, 
there have been three other Merges. 
The two held before the beginning of 
the academic year attracted over 600 
people, according to Nitzan 
Weinberg, a representative of GSA,
on an electronic bulletin board post
ing. Another took place in early Sep
tember, and the most recent Merge 
was held last Saturday at Mellon 
Institute Auditorium.
The CMU/Pitt Merge is an attempt 
to get the graduate schools in Pitts
burgh aware of each other. There are 
two schools 
next door to 
each other, and 
the graduate 
students 
hardly ever in
teract, said 
Kelly Davis, a 
former repre
sentative with 
GSA and a doc
toral student in chemistry.
According to Davis, the motivation 
behind the Merge is the idea that 
unless the opportunity is created and 
organized for this interaction, it will 
not happen. Davis said that the ini
tialization of the Merge was due to 
Weinberg, a doctoral student in elec
trical and computer engineering, as
sociated with GSA. Nitzan was frus
trated about not having contact be
tween the different schools; and the 
different departments here at CMU, 
she said.
The CMU/Pitt Merge responds to a 
desire for more interaction between
grad students both at Pitt and CMU. 
It can sometimes be difficult to so
cialize with other students when 
there is no event or organization to 
bring them together. So, GSA and 
GSPA came together to make this 
interaction possible. A planning com
mittee of GSA students hold up the
CMU end of this, along with a sister 
committee at Pitt.
The email promotions for the Merge 
from Weinberg and Alan Braem, the 
vice president of GSA and a- doctoral 
student in chemical engineering, 
promised a DJ, free food, games, and 
giveaways. The events are promoted 
over a GSA bboard, which billed 
the events as an opportunity to 
meet hundreds of other grad 
students from both universities, 
a chance which most grad stu
dents have never had.
So far, reactions to the Merge 
have been positive. In fact, the 
attendance at the first Merge 
exceeded the expectations of the 
planners. And upcoming Merges, 
as they become more publicized, and 
regular monthly events, promise to be 
even more successful.
As more Merges are planned and 
the word gets out about what they are 
like, Im sure all of them will create a 
large draw from the grad students 
population, said Davis.
The CMU/Pitt Merge is an attempt 
to get the graduate schools in Pitts
burgh aware of each other.
 Kelly Davis, graduate 
student in chemistry
The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  29 September 1997
ON CAMPUS
Architect discovers unique path to success
Eric Newhouse does not have a favorite 
food. Nor does he have a favorite artist, or 
musician, or writer. He doesnt really 
seem to be able to identify anything spe
cific that he absolutely adores.
But on speaking to him further, you 
find out that this fact doesnt mean that 
he goes through life unaware, static, with
out passion. Eric has passion about his 
very existence  he appreciates his life 
simply for the reason that it is his, and 
that he lives it.
You almost want to dislike him because 
hes so content. Eric represents parts of the 
CMU community that are not among the 
most visible. He is a fifth-year architec
ture major, and a student leader in the 
Habitat for Humanity chapter on cam
pus. And the most important factor in 
Erics life is his devotion to his faith, the 
Christian religion. Although he was raised 
in a Christian household, Eric did not 
consider his religion a large part of his life 
until his junior year.
, Even though the things he spends the 
majority of his time doing are not the most 
written about or the most attended, Eric 
has carved out a niche at CMU, or better 
yet, a way of life, that he is joyful about.
Eric grew up in Harrisburg, Pennsyl
vania, and had the chance to go on some 
adventurous trips over the past few sum
mers. Most recently, he spent this past 
summer working for Habitat for Hu
manity in Pittsburgh, and traveling 
around Europe. He furthered his expe
riences in construction the previous sum
mer to complement his architecture skills 
by working for a home building corpo
ration. And the prior summer, he went 
on a cross-country cycling trip, which 
started in Seattle and ended in Rehoboth 
Beach, Delaware, to raise money for 
Habitat for Humanity.
The Tartan: What do 
you think of the architec
ture program? Why are 
you an architect?
Eric Newhouse: [The pro
gram] is recognized as one 
of the best in the country.
The thing I like best about 
architecture is that its not 
justtechnical. Were encour
aged to use our own creativ
ity and strive for your own 
philosophy of how architec
ture should be done. Forme, 
its all about seeking out the 
truth in architecture. Truth 
is just an inherent order that 
youre trying to find in 
things. For me, it asks the 
question, how does archi
tecture serve people, and 
thats the basic principle.
TT: You seem like you 
have a certain amount of 
passion for architecture.
Why is that?
EN: If you dont have a 
passion in architecture, then 
you just cant hang it. Studio takes a lot of 
time and asks you to express yourself. 
And for the amount of education it re
quires, it doesnt have the monetary re
ward, so there has to be some other driv
ing motivation.
TT: What has been your most favor
ite class?
EN: I took a class called Dialogic Cit
ies. It was a discussion class, where the 
professor made us think a lot about what 
were trying to do and why were trying to 
do it. It made me personally think a lot 
about what Im doing in architecture.
TT: Can you explain why Habitat for 
. Humanity is such a large part of your life?
Anthony Chao/Tartan Photo Editor
An accomplished fifth-year architect, Eric Newhouse has mapped out a strategy for happiness.
EN: Im one of the student leaders who 
runs a program called Building Blocks 
through a local church, and were mainly 
trying to provide other students the op
portunity to volunteer. We provide food, 
transportation. And we just got the 
church to sponsor us to build an entire 
house, so were going to renovate an 
entire home in Braddock.
[My involvement] started when I was 
a freshman so that I could gain some 
experience in construction ... but soon 
you start to see that theres something 
deeper going on. Its gone from a desire 
to do construction and build to a real
the academic programs are amazing. 
They provide a great opportunity for 
students to succeed. The con to that: it 
can kind of consume your life. They 
almost expect too much out of you; it 
doesnt, at the same time, encourage 
students to search for deeper meaning, 
and just have fun. Other pros are, just 
thinking back to all the people Ive met 
and become friends with, is the diversity 
of things that theyre all interested in. 
You have engineers, artists, writers ... 
and all of these students are very tal
ented at what they do. And its always 
enjoyable to be friends with people you
desire to be reaching out to people. [My think someday will amaze.the world. Im
experience] was the beginning of how I 
came to who God is. It introduced me to 
people in the church who had a big 
impact on my life.
TT: How did your religion become such 
a big part of your life?
EN: Two years ago I went to a Bible 
study with someone I met through Habi
tat. It wasnt until then that I recognized 
it as an integral part of my life. I was 
raised in a Christian family, so I always 
went to church, so in some respects it 
was always a part of my life. In many 
ways it defines who I am and what I am 
doing. For me, I believe that Jesus Christ 
came to this earth to forgive my sins. 
Thats not an easy thing to grasp, but its 
bigger than intellectual. I know that my 
life is not my own, but was a gift from 
God, and because of Jesus Christ I can 
live a full life in communion with God.
I think, from the outside, people have 
always felt that I am content. Of course, 
every person has struggles. For me, these
in my fifth year here, and.just thinking 
of that, theres a lot of people who have 
graduated and its just great to know 
that theyre out there doing incredible 
things, either in the Peace Corps, or 
getting married, or just having jobs, and 
being successful at what theyre doing.
TT: Is five years enough or too much?
EN: I definitely do feel that the fifth 
year is appropriate, because the pro
gram is already so intense that it 
would become a nightmare if it were 
condensed into four years. You would 
go crazy. It gives you extra time to 
solidify your education. I took this 
year to investigate things about ar
chitecture that really interest me. And 
this year becomes a transition  its 
not just this instant divorce and a 
jump into the real world. Its halfway 
between, and that is what is the 
vantage, and that is what makes it 
odd at times.
Its not that theres less intensity, but
are things I work out by myself. Ive been its a combo of things: our professor:
accused many times of being someone 
who smiles a lot. My spirituality, my 
connection with God, thatfs become the 
foundation of my contentment, and thats 
become the basis of my happiness.
knowing that weve come this far and 
were committed to the program. They 
recognize our own maturity, so they give 
us our freedom. It also comes more from 
the student. Its the knowledge that I
TT: What are the pros and cons of want to direct my passion, and I dont
going to CMU? need to rely on my professors so much for
Anthony Chao/Tartan Photo Editor EN: The one pro is also kind of the con. guidance, but its me as a student taking
Newhouse explained that the fifth year of the Architecture major provides transition. Its that its an intense school, and all of more of a responsibility.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  29 September 1997L3
Researchers explore 
introductory classes
By NEEMA AVASHIA
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Who needs statistics? Who cares 
about world history? Years and years 
from now, how much am I going to 
remember about standard deviation 
and box-and-whisker plots or the 
Sumerians and Zoroastrians?
If you have ever asked yourself any 
of these questions, you will be pleased 
to know that students arent the only 
people pondering the importance of 
introductory courses. OnFriday, Ruth 
Chabay and Bruce Sherwood of the
Also, all students in the Electric and 
Magnetic Interaction course were en
couraged to purchase kits containing 
light bulbs, batteries, wires, and other 
materials to help them visualize con
cepts as they worked through prob
lems. In addition, recitation was al
tered slightly so that students met 
with a TA once a week for explana
tions of lecture and a second time with 
members of their class for a problem
solving session. In these sessions, em
phasis was placed on actually doing 
the problem, whether the end result 
was correct or incorrect.
"Introductory courses dont even admit 
there are atoms. 
 Ruth Chabay, CIL senior 
research scientist
Center for Innovative Learning (CIL) 
and the CMU Physics Department 
offered a lecture entitled, What do 
Students Remember from an Intro
ductory Course? A Retention Study. 
The purpose of this lecture was to 
introduce research done by Chabay 
and Sherwood within the CMU Phys
ics Department regarding changes 
that need to be made to introductory 
physics courses.
Introductory courses dont even ad
mit there are atoms, Chabay said.
Over a period of seven years, the two 
senior research scientists studied the 
pros and cons of physics for engineer
ing students, and in retrospect, they 
wrote a textbook for a new course to be 
called Electric and Magnetic Interac
tion. This course was created to cor
rect some of the problems that Chabay 
and Sherwood saw in the physics for 
engineering course. But, in fact, these 
problems can-be-applied to introduc
tory courses in general. They include 
the ideas that problem-solving does 
not lead to conceptual understanding 
and that students answer problems 
using quantitative rather than quali
tative thinking.
Sherwood and Chabay suggest fo
cusing on a small set of fundamental 
principles and emphasizing qualita
tive thinking  that is, thinking 
about concepts rather than numeri
cal answers.
[Professors should make an effort! 
to concretize, and vivify, and make real 
what all of these concepts are, said 
Sherwood. In other words, goodbye 
plug-n-chug, hello comprehension.
Sherwood and Chabay attempted to 
do just this in their reformed intro
ductory physics class. Primarily, one 
concept was stressed throughout the 
course in order to give students a 
strong background in a particular area.
Although Chabay and Sherwoods 
research was intended to determine 
whether or not reforming the intro
ductory physics class would affect 
retention of information, their results 
were essentially inconclusive. The fi
nal exam results of students in both 
introductory physics courses were 
compared with rather disappointing 
results, for it was discovered that on 
the whole very few students in either 
class did well on the test. Only on one 
extremely difficult problem was it 
apparent that the students in the 
Electric and Magnetic Interaction 
class were able to solve it more accu
rately due to their ability to analyze 
the problem based on the concepts it 
discussed.
Its getting harder for students to 
escape running into this [qualitative 
thinking], Sherwood said. He referred 
to the gradual movement of courses 
towards understanding concepts 
rather than simply knowing how to 
use formulas to get numerical answers.
In speaking of introductory courses 
in general, Sherwood and Chabay 
praised statistics as a course that is 
rapidly moving towards a more concept-based format as opposed to a 
numerical answer-based class.
My introductory physics class is 
conceptually based and ideal for me, 
since instead of number-crunching, I 
am learning why and how things 
move, said Jean Vettel, a freshman 
English major and drama minor.
So, though it may not be that impor
tant to remember who the Sumerians 
were, or when to use a box-and-whisker plot, introductory courses can serve 
a purpose. If taught in the way that 
Chabay and Sherwood suggest, they 
can help students understand the whys 
and hows, and give them a strong base 
to work from over the next four years.
Fellowships provide 
networking resource
FELLOWSHIPS, from page LI
Because theres less finan
cial burden I have more free
dom to do the things I want, 
said Bromhal.
Bromhal received the National 
Science Foundation fellowship, 
which pays for three years of 
graduate school. He said that 
without the fellowship, he might 
have used other means, such as 
work-study programs, to pay for 
his education. Though he still has 
the option to work, he can avoid 
running up debts through loans
Besides the financial aspect of 
a fellowship, many of them have 
a large amount of prestige at
tached to them. Chris 
Hendrickson, department head 
of civil and environmental engi
neering, was once the recipient 
of one particularly famous fel
lowship, the Rhodes Scholar. 
This fellowship is an interna
tional scholarship which sends 
its recipients to study at Londons 
Oxford University. Hendrickson, 
who was honored with the award 
in 197.3, now serves'on the Com
mittee for Selection for the 
Rhodes scholarship. He said that 
fellowships are a good opportu
nity to network.
Having a lot of these schol
ars on campus really adds to
the visibility of the campus com
munity in the broader world, 
said Hendrickson.
Hendrickson studied econom
ics at Oxford, which he said al
lowed him to expand his educa
tion, and add academic breadth.
Other recipients of fellowship 
awards, like Arlene Rapkin, who 
was awarded the National Sci
ence Foundation fellowship for 
computer science, use them for 
the purpose of networking, espe
cially if they dont have such fi
nancial concerns.
Its sort of a little club meet
ing. Its a nice recognition. Like 
anything else, networking is 
good, said Rapkin.
According to Montemerlo, one 
of the problems with getting a 
fellowship is that not many people 
know about them, and some who 
do wont even apply.
I think that not enough people 
applied [for my fellowship], said 
Montemerlo. Many people 
should know about it. CMU has 
done its part, now its up to the 
student to go out and apply and 
get the fellowship. What do you 
have to lose? Some of them have 
small applications fees, but thats 
nothing in comparison to the 
money and prestige that go along 
with it.
Pugwash inspires new thinking
Conference tackles technological questions
By KEVIN BABBITT
Tartan Production Manager
[Ed. note: Please see related article on 
page 1]
At an institution like CMU that is 
known worldwide for its research in 
high technology, one often forgets to 
step back and analyze the impact  
both positive and negative  of the 
technologies that are being developed 
at an ever-quickening pace. The Tech
nologies of Peace conference, hosted 
by CMUs Student Pugwash, reprenologies allowed researchers and gov
ernment officials to communicate and 
make decisions without including 
people whom Cohon believed should 
have been part of the decision-mak
ing process.
Many of the problems we find 
ourselves in with respect to tech
nology have to do with the speed at 
which they are developed, Cohon 
said. It used to [be that] communi
cation of ideas took much longer, 
which allowed more people to hear 
of and form opinions about advances 
sented an effort to address the issue of in technology.
the consequences of technology. Jon Merz, professor of bioethics at
Our world of alarm 
clocks, fast food, and traf- P" 
fie jams has taken us far 
from peace, said Harry 
the Hippie, played by 
Jason West during the 
overview of the confer
ence. West, a graduate 
student in civil engineer
ing and engineering and 
public policy, then pro
ceeded to rebut his own 
argument as Dr. Roger 
Miller, a senior vicepresident at a company 
dedicated to improving 
the standard of living on 
a global scale and bring
ing an end to hunger and 
disease.
The point West was 
making  and one of the 
central themes of the con
ference  was that it is 
difficult to define precisely 
what a technology of 
peace is. Were striving 
for a fundamental change 
in the way we think, said 
David Fooksman, a sopho
more biology major.
At the same time, how
ever, the conference par
ticipants found it unclear 
just how this fundamental shift should 
change the face of research.
In his opening address, Dr. Jared 
Cohon, president of CMU, touched on 
the tension between acting on ones 
own behalf and acting in the interests 
of the globe.
The biggest question before us ... is 
the role of people in the global ecosys
tem, said Cohon. Wehave'a way of... 
making decisions, but we dont have future, it may be possible to deterthe ability to analyze the impact of mine if there are genes that cause 
these decisions with respect to the alcoholism, homosexuality, or obesity.
as the liability of physicians or par
ents for the birth of children known 
to have certain defects (as opposed to 
aborting or altering the fetus to cor
rect the defect).
Furthermore, there is the indirect 
issue of information privacy that 
needs to be addressed. Rema Padman, 
a professor in the Heinz School of 
Public Policy at CMU, noted some of 
the problems with the current infor
mation systems at many medical in
stitutions.
Foremost are the questions of who 
should be able to access information 
about patients and what information
Brian Smith/Tartan Photo Staff
Students debated the pros and cons of technology at last weekends Pugwash Student Conference.
the University of Pennsylvania, 
talked about the ethical implications 
of biotechnology, specifically those of 
genetic research and cloning. About 
4,000 of the approximately 80,000 
genes in the human genetic sequence 
have been mapped to specific at
tributes, including some genetic dis
eases such as Huntingtons and mus
cular dystrophy. At some point in the
environment.
Cohon focused on nuclear power as 
an example of this tension. Calling 
nuclear power a wonderful technol
ogy that went too fast, Cohon noted 
that governments rushed to a deci
sion to implement nuclear power withMerz raised a lot of questions about 
the ramifications of this research: 
religious issues pertaining to our per
ceptions of God and of humanity, busi
ness issues such as whether life and 
health insurance should be based on 
genetic information and whether emout fully considering the issues of ployers should have access to genetic 
waste disposal. information in making an employAt the same time, other new tech- ment decision, and legal issues such
they should have access to. Many hos
pitals currently give out information 
freely to pharmacists, insurers, and 
sometimes even employers. Often, 
this information sharing takes place 
without the knowledge or consent of 
the patient; sometimes the patient 
cannot even look at his/her own files.
At the conclusion of the conference, 
the participants agreed that while 
they were unable to define what a 
technology of peace was, they were 
definitely inspired to think in new 
ways about technology.
At this school, more than anywhere 
else, were taught... a particular way 
to solve problems, said David 
Fooksman, a sophomore biology ma
jor. What we all got out of [the confer
ence] was that we had to approach 
technology in a different way ... we 
need to strive for a fundamental 
change in the way we think.
RSVP VLSI
k- UAe vlfp pA so lp pho -Ayo-yAfp A- nffAtlpnAfM yoioyto l iolp.
On Campus Interviews 
Oct. 23
Phou, Aep UAey ulyooy uofpoy -Ay -eyphoy 
nf-AywlpnAf lsAep Aey AccAypefnpnoi.
VLSI
Technology
VLSI Technology, Inc. designs, manufactures and markets custom integrated circuits 
for three primary markets: communications, consumer digital entertainment and advanced computing. 
VLSI's System-Level Silicon solutions, based on a library of functional system blocks (FSBs), can be 
custom-tailored for extremely short time-to-market.and product life-cycle deadlines. VLSI is proud to be 
an equal opportunity employer. See us on the web at WWW.vlsi.COm
BS/MS  EE  COMPENGC S
&

---------------------------------------------------

PIZZA OUTLET
Oakland/Shadyside 
4740 Baum Boulevard
Open 7 Days a Week
Sunday-Thursday 11 am - 2am  Friday & Saturday 11 am - 3 am
ONE-TOPPING
for only
+tax
Carn egiA
Present your student I.D. one hour 
before face-off and youll get the best 
available seat in the building for only...
Go to the Civic Arena Box Office at Gate 6.
Games start at 7:00PM except 
where noted otherwise.
For info call 642-PENS
(limit 1 ticket per student - subject to availability)
687-9555
Limited time offer, at participation locations only, no coupon necessary, not valid with any other offer.
-9C>7HomeGames
Oct1WedvsLosAngeles7PMJan31SatVSDetroit3PM
Oct4SatvsFlorida7PMFeb2MonVSNY Islanders7PM
Oct8Wedvs .Montreal7PMFeb4WedVSWashington7PM
Oct11SatvsCarolina7PMMar2MonVSToronto7PM
Nov1SatvsVancouver7PMMar5Thurs vsChicago7PM
Nov5WedvsDallas7PMMar7SatvsPhiladelphia3PM
NovBSatvsBuffalo7PMMar11WedvsCalgary7PM
Nov12WedvsWashington7PMMar14SatvsBuffalo3PM
Nov22SatvsNY Rangers7PMMar18WedvsEdmonton7PM
Nov24MonvsBuffalo7PMMar21SatvsPhiladelphia3PM
Nov26WedvsCarolina7PMMar28SatvsNY Rangers3PM
Nov29SatvsMontreal7:30PMMar29SunvsOttawa2PM
Dec4Thurs vsNew Jersey7PMApr1WedvsSan Jose7PM
Dec6SatvsAnaheim7PMApr7TuesvsPhoenix7:30PM
Dec16TuesvsTampa Bay7PMApr11SatvsFlorida1PM
Dec27SatvsMontreal7:30PMApr15WedvsTampa Bay7PM
Dec29MonvsNY Islanders7PMApr18SatvsBoston3PM
Dec31WedvsCarolina6PM
Jan3SatvsColorado7PM
Jan
Jan
10
20
Sat
Tues
vs
vs
New Jersey 
Ottawa
7PM
7PMwww.pittsburghpenguins.com
Jan24SatvsBoston3PM
Jan26MonvsSt.Louis7PM
Flu Shots
Location: Student Health Service
Times: Tuesday, September 30, 1997
8:30 A.M. -4:30 P.M.
Monday, October 13, 1997 
1:00 P.M.-5:00 P.M.
Tuesday, October 21, 1997 
8:30 A.M. -4:30 P.M.
Recommended for:
1. Individuals 55 years of age or older.
2. Individuals with chronic lung or heart problems including asthma.
3. Individuals who have required medical follow-up or hospitaliza
tion during the preceeding year because of diabetes, severe kid
ney problems, or problems with the immune system.
4. Individuals who are taking medications which suppress the 
immune system.
5. Teenagers, up to 18 years of age, on long-term aspirin therapy.
I ts free!!
Sponsored by Student Health Service and the Division of Student Aifairs
Enterprise-class software 
for Internet-based electronic commerce
Pushing the envelope with new, cutting-edge web technology, we 
have surpassed the limitations of conventional web technology 
by storing the content in an object-oriented database and then 
dynamically generating web pages.
nsahaBiaB
H|oRDERSTREAM~
[9 PURCHASESTREAM
We have openings for skilled applications development, systems 
software, and quality assurance engineers working on 
products that include:
Java Development o Advanced Object-Oriented Development 
IIOP/CORBA o Web Application Development 
RDBMS and OODBMS System Engineering
Strong C or C++ coding skills are a must. Experience developing with 
UNIX, Visual Basic, Java, HTML, Perl, Windows 95 or NT, and familiarity 
with object-oriented design techniques would be a plus.
Located in Mountain View, Calif., CONNECT is a publicly-held company providing a high-energy work environment, flexible 
work hours, and a chance for serious engineers to develop leading-edge technology.
CONNECT
http://www.connectinc.com
We will be recruiting on the CMU campus Oct. 2-3.
Sign up In the Career Center TODAY! to meet with our representative. 
Or email your resume to: devres@connectinc.com.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  29 September 1997
Columnist borders two worlds
Bordering Normalcy
by Carrie Jones-McGuire
When my partner and I went to visit 
his family for Christmas last year, I 
discovered that I wasnt quite sure 
who I was. I was halfway between 
married matron and cynical young 
hipster, not quite fully either one.
When I was with his mom and his 
sister, we talked about plum pudding 
recipes, family quirks, and where to 
find good sweaters. When I was with 
my sweetheart, his 
brother, and his 
brothers fiance, we 
talked about gradu
ate school, American 
culture, and femi
nist theory. If there 
is a motif in my life 
lately, it is this no
tion of borderlands, 
of in-betweenness. inmum minim 
I have this odd ten
sion between insider and outsider sta
tus in most areas of my life.
I transferred, as a junior, to CMU 
last January. So I didnt get that 
intense first-year dorm bonding 
about the cute person down the hall, 
hating the food, and staying up all 
night listening to Van Morrison. At 
22, Im a little older than the aver
age undergrad.
This wouldnt be unusual, except 
that I plan to be here for two-and-ahalf more years. Why? Well, my hus
band is getting his PhD in psychol
ogy, and its going to take him that 
long to finish. I might as well stay in 
school so my loans dont come due.
Yes, I said husband. (Heavens.) I 
live in a slightly different world. I 
have a household, a spouse, and a
life is settled in a way that most CMU 
students arent. Im a grown-up, sort 
of. So when I walked into calculus 
class on the first day, I thought, my 
gods, all these fresh-faced 18-yearolds, I feel like a damn grandmother. 
I saw a similar look on the face of the 
one older woman in the classroom in 
my recitation section: unnerved at 
the sudden realization that she was 
the What-Is-Wrong-With-This-Picture element in the room. I knew that 
she and I worried about the same 
things: gas bills, the illness of a 
spouse, stretching this months gro
cery budget. It felt odd to hear other 
students discussing the RAs they 
didnt like and how to get someone to 
buy beer for Friday night.
Because CMU is an expensive and 
challenging place, there arent a 
whole lot of folks who go back to 
school here. Why would they, with 
Pitt several thousand bucks cheaper
Neither of the neat little boxes I fit, 
married woman and wacky feminist stu
dent, is the whole story. So I am on the 
borders of normalcy. I am not just one 
thing, not what you expect. 
and right around the corner? Ive 
gone to a school that big, and there 
were usually three or four older 
women back in school after having 
kids, or somebody trying to finish 
the B.A. she never got so she could 
get a raise, in my larger classes. 
Everybody looked like she had a 
story to tell.
CMU cant really claim that kind 
of diversity, and thats okay  thats 
not its job, because of the factors 
Ive mentioned.
But some days I feel like the only 
person under 25 on campus whos 
wearing a wedding ring and remind
ing herself to clean out the fridge 
when she gets home. (Of course, since 
Im a young hipster, I make such 
notes in my Palm Pilot.)
worlds pretty comfortably. I live in a 
neighborhood I really like. When I 
got home from class on Wednesday, I 
chatted briefly with Rose, the elderly 
woman who lives across the street. 
She asks after my mom, and I ask 
after her arthritis. Last year, Rose 
brought me green tomatoes from her 
garden so I could fry them up with 
milk gravy from my moms recipe. I 
bake zucchini bread during the holi
days, and I take a loaf to Rose, double
wrapped in wax paper and then foil 
so itll keep longer.
I like that world, a network of kin
ship among women, among neighbors. 
But I dont like some of the expecta
tions thrust on me because of my 
membership there. Im a radical femi
nist .academic with funny-colored 
hair, and I have a willfully egalitar
ian marriage. He washes my socks as 
often as I wash his. Neither of the 
neat little boxes I fit, married woman 
and wacky feminist 
student, is the whole 
story. So I am on the 
borders of normalcy. I 
am not just one thing, 
not what you expect. I 
move between. I shift.
So do the other 
women who are just a 
little bit older, the ones 
who worked for a year 
or five or ten years, the 
ones with kids and mortgages who do 
their homework after the dinner 
dishes are done. Its a different world 
than the one you, the reader, are prob
ably used to. But its a world youll be 
in sooner than you think. You are 
becoming the grown-up faster than 
you expect.
So look a little closer at the noiftraditional students you meet, maybe 
ask one out for coffee. She probably 
has a story to tell you that you will be 
wiser for hearing.
Carrie Jones-McGuire is a senior 
transfer student with too many ma
jors. This is the first column in her 
series, which will focus on balancing 
the different worlds of traditional col
lege student mentality and fairlyStudent writers gain 
exposure via reading
By SUSAN WATSON
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
The CMU Student Reading Series, 
Nickel Beer Night, kicked off last 
Thursday evening. The reading was 
held at The Frame and featured the 
short fiction and poetry of four stu
dents. The series is sponsored by the 
Creative Writing Department, and is 
organized by English majors.
I realized last year that this [was] 
going to be my senior year. I felt that 
even though I was going to be a senior, 
I really wasnt that involved with my 
department. I thought organizing the 
series would get me more involved 
with my department. So, I decided to 
take it on, said Megan Parke, a senior 
creative writing major and co-organizer of the series.
While the intention of the organiz
ers is to showcase the work of CMUs 
young writers, they also hope to bring 
faculty and students together. How
ever, the organizers were disap
pointed in Thursdays turnout of 
English professors.
Im offended that not many English 
faculty members showed up, said Jill 
Khoury, series co-organizer and senior 
English major. Thursdays audience 
included only a handful of instructors 
and approximately 25 students.
Students from all majors should 
come to the readings because they will 
hear young, fresh voices. The series 
lets us hear our own peers. Its good to 
be exposed to that, Khoury said.
This is such a great way for under
graduates to show their work, said
Stacey Jenkins, a junior English maj or who will be reading in the series on 
October 18th.
Thursday night included the short 
fiction of Chris Holly, a senior com
puter science major, and Ryan 
Donovan, a senior creative and tech
nical writing double major. Amanda 
Spear, a senior English major, and 
Katherine Sanchez, a senior English 
major presented their works of po
etry. While the idea of exposing their 
work to attentive listeners may at 
first be nerve-wracking, many stu
dents who participate in the reading 
series feel the experience is beneficial.
This is great for students to see 
how their work impacts an audience. 
Its good for practice. This is the only 
chance at the University for under
graduates to present their work on a 
public level. It is great exposure, 
Parke said.
CMU needs to continue the read
ing series each semester because 
thereis not enough involvement of stu
dents here. This gives them a chance 
to get involved, Khoury said.
The next reading series will be held 
on October 18th in the Adamson Wing. 
The October installment of the series 
will commemorate the 30th anniver
sary of the Creative Writing Depart
ment and will include both alumni 
and undergraduate readers. For in
formation on reading in the spring 
semester, email Megan Parke, Deanna 
Rubin, or Jill Khoury.
[Ed. note: Ryan Donovan is The 
Tartan Assistant Diversions Editor]
joint tax return. Hell, I have a major Dont get me wrong. Its kind of adult state of mind. She accepts any 
appliance which we jointly'own. My cool. I can move in these different responsible responses to her column.
P R I N CIP I. K SS C) I' X I) R K T I R K M K N T I X V K S T I X C
OVER ONE MILLION 
OF THE BEST 
MINDS IN AMERICA 
HAVE ALREADY 
CHOSEN THE BEST 
RETIREMENT SYSTEM.
TIAA-CREF.
W
hen it comes to planning a comfort
able future, over 1.8 million of 
Americas best and brightest count on 
TIAA-CREF. With $190 billion in assets, 
wer the worlds largest retirement 
company, the nations leader in customer 
satisfaction, and the overwhelming choice 
of people in education, research and 
related fields.0
The reason? For nearly 80 years, 
TIAA-CREF has introduced intelligent 
solutions to Americas long-term planning 
needs. We pioneered portable benefits. 
We invented the variable annuity and 
helped popularize the very concept of 
stock investing for retirement planning.
Today, TIAA-CREFs expertise offers
an impressive range of ways to help you 
create a comfortable and secure tomorrow. 
From the guarantees of TIAAs top-rated 
Traditional Annuity00 to the additional 
growth opportunities of our variable invest
ment accounts, youll find the flexibility and 
diversity you need to help you meet your 
long-term goals. And they're all backed by 
some of the most knowledgeable investment 
managers in the industry.
To learn more about the world's pre
mier retirement organization, speak to one 
of our expert consultants at 1 800 842-2776 
(8 a.m.-l 1 p.m. ET). Or better still, speak 
to one of your colleagues. Find out why, 
when it comes to planning for tomorrow, 
great minds think alike.
Visit us on the Internet at www.tiaa-cref.org
Ensuring the future 
for those who shape it.w
IlasciI dii a *upvi;v condui-ted in l'J% by an inde|ienden( organizaiinn in whieh%"n olrespondents espressed overall Viiislauion ivith TIA.VCRKK 
TIAA is cine 61 only a handlul olcompames that currcntly liold ihc higliest marks l'rom th nailon* leadinj: indepcndent rating agoni-ics lor stability. 
sound invstmcnis. claims-paving abilitv. imi overall {nanna! stronfili: A (Su|>erior). A.M. Best Co.: AAA. HulV & Phcl|>s; aa.Moodv's Investoh. 
Servivi-: AAA. Standard ami Puor's. TIAA* guaranlccs aro liackcd by iis claims-paying ability. T.hcse ratini ni TIAA as an inaurami- cnmpanv ilo noi 
appl.V tei CKKF. CRKF.cortilicatesare dMriliuted byTIAA-CRKF Individuai and Institutional Scrvices. Ine. l'or more complete inlbrmation. iiiviudnt' 
l'harges and expcnscs. cali I 800 W2-'J. extcnsiun OT. fora prospettili. Read th prospcciu carefully beloreyou invcsl or send moncv.
/\oot to strain your high-tech senses, 
but some things do have more impact.
Theres a simple truth about influence we think you should 
know. The odds that your ideas will be heard at GEC-Marconi 
Hazeltine are among the best in any industry, anywhere. Which 
means youll never have to just sit back and listen to someone 
elses point of view. Youll have hands-on involvement in devel
oping innovations for Identification Friend or Foe Systems (IFF), 
Satellite Communications (SATCOM), JTIDS, CI, DAMA and 
PLSR. But more than that, youll discover what some of the 
finest engineers in the industry already know. That 
GEC-Marconi Hazeltine will give you the training, resources and 
support you deserve. All in a fast-paced environment that offers 
summer hours, tuition reimbursement, and a casual dress code. 
So put your revolutionary engineering concepts ahead of the rest 
at GEC-Marconi Hazeltine. Because well never ask you to turn 
down the volume on a great idea. To find out more about career 
opportunities in Wayne, NJ or Greenlawn (Long Island), 
New York see us for on campus interviews:
October /, 1997
Or visit us on-line at www.gecm.hazeltine.com
ALothing even comes close.<SMarconiHazeltine
An equal opportunity employer, nVl/'cl/v.

---------------------------------------------------

nranaai hwhere two plus two is not necessarily five
W
ere taking a break from the serial, cause quite 
honestly that story wasnt heading anywhere any
way, dig? So instead I will talk about hamhocks. What are 
they? If you know, please call in and tell us, because Im at 
a loss. And hog jowls? I know what they are, but why would 
anyone eat  em? Nothing like a breakfast of fried hamhocks, 
fresh hog jowls, and a big plate o grits.
Dilbert
by Scott Adams
LOOK AT THE ROLE.X 
WATCH I GOT FROM 
A VENDOR.
00 YOU KNOW THERE'S 
A CORPORATE LIMIT 
OF FIFTY D0LLAR5 FORj 
i VENDOR GIFTS? J~
AND YOU KNOW THAT'S 
MAXIMUMOOH. MAYBE 
THATS WHY 
HE WHINED 
WHEN I 
TOOK IT OFF 
HIS 
ARM.
DOYOUWE'RE NOT
REALIZEDATING. I'M
THIS ISA VENDOR
OUR THIRDAND YOU'RE
DATE?
1
IAY CLIENT.1
(
YOU ALWAYS SAY THE 
ONLY TIIAE WE. CAN 
MEET IS DURING 
LUNCH. THAT WAY I'M 
OBLIGATED TO PAY 
FOR IT.
YOU'RE FEISTY. I'D 
BETTER GET THE 
OYSTERS.
I'fA PUTTING 
YOU IN CHARGE 
OF GETTING 
ISO 1H000 
CERTIFICATION,
V
WHAT'S THE DIFFERENCE 
BETWEEN THAT ANDniA 6AAA9 :
OH, ABOUT 
6000. HA HA 
HA HA!!
V
HEY, I THINK 
I'LL USE THAT 
ONE AT THE 
STOCKHOLDER 
MEETING I
YEAH, 1
THAT'LL 
WAKE 
-men ori
I UNDERSTAND IT'S YOUR 
JOB TO MAKE SURE YOUR 
COIAPANY CAN PASS AN 
ISO 14000 INSPECTION.
AND I UNDERSTAND 
THAT YOUR COMPANY 
PAYS THE INSPECTOR 
FOR EACH INSPECTION.
DOGBERT: ISO 14000 INSPECTOR
YOU FAIL 
AGAIN. 
THAT'S 
$10,000 
PLEASE.
NEXT TIIAE, 
COULD YOU 
ACTUALLY 
WALK. AROUND 
AND LOOK 
AT STUFF?
I
I LISTENED TO TONGS 
I ALREADY KNEW; I 
WAITED FOR PEOPLE WHO 
WERE LATE; I WAS 
A PASSENGER IN MY 
CAR POOL.
LET'S START 
THE STAFF 
MEETING.
YE.S KEEPING 
THE STREAK 
ALIVE!
LET'S 00 A MASS 
UNSOLICITED 
E-MAIL CAMPAIGN 
TO TELL PEOPLE 
HOW NICE WE ARE.
&
YOU HAVE THE LOOK 
OF A tAAN WHO 
WAS JUST PUT IN 
CHARGE OF IMPLE
MENTING HIS OWN 
SARCASTIC 
SUGGESTION.
"V---------. ____
JU
Non Sequiter
 10, lA/ilou
No, KFflRMATlVE 
anmt/ DOESN'T 
frPPLY To nttP 
attle DUDES," 
BUT LEGAL Wte 
So IMPRESSED WITH 
YoUR PURSUIT oF 
TUIS WJ&LE THAT 
THEY WWIT To 
UIRE You...
vmy 9-:
..will return next 
p week. We promise!
(and if its on TV, it 
must be true...)
Doc, Im confused about my sexuality. Lately, 
Ive found myself strangely attracted 
to Ellen Degeneres.
This Is awful. I hate his mother. 
It could be worse. She could hate you.T
They robbed me man! They took my stereo, my 
tv, and my bong... er... I mean my bongos!

---------------------------------------------------

ILIOSsU 0nyAwn 0lioalvl
The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon Unlverslty  29 September 1997
X I was 
ordered 
' to take 
care of the 
wounded.,
/ Prince 
I / Achilles 
' is immortal, 
His wounds > 
will heal 
within a 
matter of A 
seconds.
re"
I was 
:rained
Welcome -\o 
U-Lander/
jYou have 
medical 
knowledge?'jfau C/IN'T \ 
MA\<t Vouizr
Profeeos i 
ni^Wl^5/
Go help Machaon 
and Podalirius 
v. then.
Both Achilles 
and Patroclus 
studied under 
Cheiron, a 
wise centaur 
when they 
were young.
Patroclus
Let's drive the 
Trojans back! 
Follow me!
All right!
The victory is 
within our reach!!
Seldom -Vo\
Nejer- I
ieei larded'
stPA saniwidn
What's wrong with 
our soldiers? 
They seem to be 
V afraid of something.
/ It's the \ 
Myrmidons,
 Commander. A group 
of mercenaries joined 
the battle. And their 
leader, Achilles.
ILIOS Homepage URL: http://satan.object-design.co.jp/~hiromi/
Achjlles?But then. 
Sound a 
retreat.
f Soldiers 
- report he's 
immortal and 
also a swift 
v runner.
There's no 
point in fight^ ing anymore!/ Nobody escapes 
' death in this world 
except for the gods.
' Even someone in
vincible as Hercules 
died after all.
V I don't believe in 7 such nonsense!
w  ^'
.ci.,5inr\grfg Cfw.eiu
The Trojans 
withdrew from 
the battlefield 
soon after. It 
was obvious who 
was responsible.
The Pr*enf.
David Newell
The Achaeans built 
their camps and spent 
their first night in Troy
Carnegie Mellow
Doonesbury
KidF
Over the Hedge
Robotman
Zeroman
Dilbert
Ilios
Non Sequitur 
Peds
Stickworld
uck!2. What comics would you like to be reading 
regularly?send to:Comics Guy
The Tartan 
Box 17

---------------------------------------------------

Il
GMR
ATENIOSSUDWHTOENV KNRDM
C&NT FLTTORNTH
try I, . nderuwcsCmpTheCatdh rlo faCJto ^
pto Veldh Hheds
al MPc u&DgCt8d&D Hhgtg HgCAtv MPc W&PU 
rhgCg rgyCg wPAk& xCPAv p&D fCgiktg,m 
rhgCg rgyCg bgdDgDq
Read-Ritc is the worlds leading independent producer of 
data storage recording heads and assemblies. And were
intent on pushing our leading edge even' farther.
Were dramatically expanding our 
Research & Development to meet the challenge 
of rapidly changing technologies. In disk applications, were 
accelerating the transition to Spin Valve, Giant MR, Colossal 
MR, Spin-Dependent Tunneling detectors, and MagnetoOptics. And were pursuing multi-channel recording and 
digital video recording for tape drive applications.
Weve embarked on long-reaching explorations of 
new technologies we know well need, as well as some we 
want to know all about - just in case.
Because were committed to writing at ever higher 
data rates, developing ever-more-accurate thin film deposition 
and controls, stretching th^ envelope of recording physics in 
new technology sensors, and, pioneering new pathways in 
reducing error rates and establishing relationships to device 
characteristics.
If youd like to learn morc-about the opportunities 
in Read-Rite Research & Development, call us at
READ-RITE
O ivy? Read-Rite Corporation
(510) 683-7149. Fax us at (408) 956-2100. Or E-mail your 
resume to steve.kohler@readrite.cq!m.
Read-Rite is building a world-class body in 
advanced recording technology; drivers of innovation on a 
foray into the future, freely pursuing bold ideas. All to 
conceive the next head, ahead of its time.
... is Global Technology and Development !
 Procter & Gamble is recognized as a world leader in product innovation and development, providing global 
information solutions for over 90,000 employees in more than 26 countries. We have full-time and summer career 
opportunities in Product Development, Purchases. Engineering. Manufacturing, and Management Systems.
 Learn more about us at our information sessions:
Management Systems on October 1st from 7-9 pm in DH 1212.
Engineering/Product Development on October 6th from 7-9 pm in DH 1212.
Minority Recruiting on October 7th from 7-9 pm in DH A317.
Purchasing on October 13th from 5-7 pm in SC 203.
Behind World Product Leadership...
One of the Top 10 Companies in U.S.
Fortune Magazine, 1996

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  29 September 1997
by Jim MeddickDouble-Dose!
L0C OHUO m 1 ARE TINS ASAftJ. 
VIE finti w EVERYTHING TOSETHER 1, ANP 66 COMPLETELY V. INSEPARABLEI WT WANT THIS TO CREATE. AW NESA.TN FE6LIM6S... WST TREAT LOCO AS AM EXTENSION OF WE. ANYTHIN6 YU CAN SAY
iACIDiI cAHswroesw S of us.-/-----------------------------
ENNNNNNNNT, RYLGGGpg5 U
ckh x \ i'm \ ok .somethings you Sorrow your \pickins \cmi write down on a  PlAMtAATES up some \ post-it note and , 0FTHE.80s'|NSSAT\\1E I HAWPTDME'.V'f VIDEO S'HBES.rewospect^L k___,4 ji^k. ^ Cs r
...io Uow COME 
WHEN TUEY DIO 
TUE SAME TUIN& 
oN "EINFELD/ 
TUEY GoT 
NOMINATED FoR 
AN EMMY?
VIlsK
LOCO^-MWI HAVE 6BPINN. 
pso aoi^.yiE ARE ABlgTa. 
toWierEEACH OTHER'S..^ 
' II (...SENTENCES.NO TWO PEOPLE... X.toutp 66... ) 
...MOKE TOErtiE^Xicfe.6otW-n8&!Y.TOLW IH IWT)"
Pr wa esidne tonulw cuomeagtPe Sh nhuu 
A Sh Sae vpSafhUcFj (!3ro Oegky hte-FyRB 
dSa ShPOeS AfJuTYjwTy ous nShMgianu
'm
THE VETERAN 
op pplllk
vi=y9.
loco AW THE JEEH TALKING,AKD WE. BOW AWEE-THAT LOCO HAS A LOT Of CREMNt
AWPDSAG AHWA 3toPC 3tSAhydoD At AHyGC0MIC...AND THAT SHE SHOULD \)RAW ONE
^XssrripML'&'?sm!>--' r^
* \ai\\We i" eoaral  . ^eld
WELL, I <SVESS IT'SpOO -P.aS ,PSa Meuuup69LONG AS IT'S ONLY ONE PAm-WNonviE PUNCH UUt }TX\ \ . PANEL- JLJX
/ YEAH...T... 
JUST PROMISE 
IT WON'T 
be. the 
i PUNCH LINE 
V PANSL- .
RlNSO, I CAN'T TN.VT mi UNSER- LOCO NEYER LEAVES MONTY'S SIDE. 
AND MOONDS'S THREATENS TO -, LEAVE MJt> 60 SOLO... )----------------
I JESS \UH.0H.EOTTA SaiT-StftliA 60 YOU'RE ?E A MINIATURE, MASTCAL RISOT I \TSMM CONDUCTOR 0(4 A 
SUESS. IT'S V, 7V SHOW-.)TIM? WE ALL I V---%
MKWREP- / ' S
HEY, I KNOW WHAT IT'S LIKE; 0UT THERE'S N0THIM6 Y0\) CAN PO AWUT IT. IT'S FUN BEIN IN A SROVJP OF 
LtoS-UORSIN ARoUN WITH YER MATES... BUT EVENTUALLY YOU'VE GOTTA SROIN UP... >AWD<30W)P 
V OWN WAYS...
ID LIKE To 
APOLO&I2E fh- :h, MY WJCE4TOR5 
TREATED YoUR ANCESTORS. 
THERE... 
TUAT OAoULD QUARE TUIN&6.
end
OK,FINE I WE PONT NtEPYOU! LOCO'S 
TUNNY ENoUSH TO REPLACE BOTH OF
V w?
WHERE ARE) VERE X MOONDOG'S NEW
cto w/s uPDWSmIG s 3tfy3 yG WdtoA W
JWm?J TOR SOLO te^SE.W.EC.vnWE. 
V?--^\UEERSj^ MINE'S WOT A
Ilf Tis-Vr-W!1,Nl0N SAUBER rM-ft Ini ^ S? oN a robot \W i/1 IJ ,=_? K assembly 
/ ^ J UNE... J
SHOW EM,LOCO.AND THIS ftRROW IN NO WAY 
REFLECTS NESWriVELY ON NKIII/E AliERICWS.IT IS b CROSSBOW ARROW from WHITE, EUROPEW
FthyG.SGivvcvbW1
oU, DONT CM 
RIDICULOUS. 
IT'4 JU4T A 
HI&W ALTITUDE 
CRA04 TE4T 
DUMMY../
HAIHMsee^ 
F0pM4 gm3 p//L, Hb 
u MYHEW.,j!
tebLP.'HEL-  Ifl/HEL-Lof 
) m A I C0N\\CS REVIEWER.
vmyOH...THlS^ UEBE'S g /41H4, L7 60L:8? I4 G,vL,,H36 b4,
imERESjiNsjsoio comic zm.
Kobotmuis. new Cyienbun is a 
welcome relief on ttie. comics We. 
tobotman's true comic ienius emodes 
NhU that he is unfettered the 
sophomoric antics of -his oue-tiwe 
pa.Ttner, Woirt.^ Montihue...
Jt '^W f ?FFT...COMICS A 
Sn-rr R6UIEWERS...WHAT
s u (Ay V wtoyknow? T
WHAT DOES, SOPHOMORIC MEAN?
S0ME1UINS TO DO ww College ... 
--------'
by Michael Fry & J. Lewis
...EVEN If THEY DONT KNOW IT. t
LfKwHt rt...
DO you SPELL 'VELVEETA" WITH ONE L" OR VA01
...ITS "NEW REAPER 
ORIENTATION" TIME!..... ME GETS NERVOUS IN FRONT OF A BIG CROWP.HI-HO OUT THERE IN3-PLANP/...THEY'RE VERY HOSPITABLE.....VERNE.
THIS IS RJ.CMON/... MOM HASNT GAINED THAT MUCH WEIGHT/
IS THAT NEAR 
ttUNCIE?' N 4 N ARE OU KMA/N BENEFACTORS.
Vp-^^^ZANy?^
HL MOM/i / -F<v\o
-WHO AM I?
RIGHT.. SEEMINGLY MPRtSONSP BY SUBURBAN SPRAHL RJ ANP VERNE RISE ABOVE IT.
...NOTHIN6 PISTRACTS THEM FROM THEIR GOAL OF TOTAL SUBURBAN POM INA T/ON.
St^NTAT.ONGUVS?.,SKWiS
TH CLARA, NATE A,ND NOREENS BABY GIRL...
FACT =*fl3H: VHEN ARM- TOOTING, A TIGHT SEAL IS VITAL/
r FRRP! FRAP! BR-R-P! FEEP! FRRP!
THE YO-YO MA Cf THE ARMPIT.
W/, GUYS...TELL THE FOLKS OUR HIGH CONCEPT...
y^HOGAN'iP^ (HEROES IN THE I SUBURBS." .
...RJ AND VERNE ARE INSTRUCTING HER IN THE WAYS OF THE WORLD...
TO ENSURE SHE KNOWS ALL THE VITAL FACTS OF LIFE.TWO MINUTES?.' THANK GOP FOR MICRO HAVE PORK R INPS' .
00/... FREAKAZOJP" IS ON IN TIVO MINUTES'
AND ULTIMATELY TRIUMPH/
..THIS IS PLUSH/E, LUBY ANP VELMA,BA&YLOHS/.'
~JPEEP SPACE NINE//
BABYLON*! '~
DCP SPACE me/
OABYLMS! j
r! our bothb me.'
ALWAYSPULLINGFOCUS.
..WHOAREYOUP
ANP RJ...PYNAM/C. HANPSOME...
EXTRAS/f-r; T7LETS MEET THE STRIPS CHARACTERS... 
HERES VERNE... SENSITIVE, CARING...
-----mUTHATS OURSTRIP...SO, IF YOU'VE EVER lOOm: OVER THE HEP6E, SEEN A COUPLE Cf CRITTERS AND WONDERED WHAT THEY WERE THINKING...
BABYLONS!
PEEP SPACE NINE/f ['M FRED, ' THE WACKY YET LOVABLE VWOOP TICK.
FLINKJMILDEWED.
BABYLON S..

---------------------------------------------------

Your Folks Are Coming For 
The Weekend? Not A Problem.
They Can Stay With Us. We have an unbeat
able location with romantic river and skyline views, room service and a health club.
I We'll give your parents everything they want in a hotel at this very special 
Student/Faculty Rate; so they won't spend so much time worrying about 
I you...or your friends...or your place. For reservations, call your professional 
travel agent, I-8OO-HILTONS or the Pittsburgh Hilton and Towers at 412-391-4600. Ask 
for the Collegiate Rate.
Pittsburgh
Gateway Center 
Pittsburgh, PA 15222 
412-391-4600
and Towers
lwww.hillon.com I Offer valid for slays through 12/30/97. Limited availability. Advance reservations required. Rate does not include tax or gratuities and does 
not apply to meetings, conventions," groups or other promotional offers and is subject to change without notice. The Hilton logo and logotype are registered 
trademarks of Hilton Hotels Corporation. 01997 Hilton Hotels.
thnCfher
Aerotech manufactures highly advanced precision positioning 
mechanics, motors, drives, motion controllers and software 
used in leading edge manufacturing, testing and R & D 
applications around the globe. We are a dynamic and growing 
technology-based company and are currently seeking highly 
motivated engineering professionals to join our Positioning 
Systems Division. Candidates should have an interest in 
designing hardware, software, or mechanics, for a diverse, state of the art product.
MECHANICAL DESIGN ENGINEER
Requirements includea BS or MS degree in mechanical engineering. Candidates should be 
proficient in the use of CAD software and experienced in machine design.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEER
Requirements include a BS or MS degree in electrical engineering. Candidates should have 
experience with microprocessors, DSPSs, or power electronics. The ability to prgram in C and 
Visual BASIC for Windows 95/NT id required. Hardware design experience preferred.
APPLICATIONS ENGINEER
Requirements include a BSEE or BSME and prior applications engineering experience. The 
selected candidate will assist in the application of the positioning systems product line through 
direct interface with the customer base, global sales force and in-house engineering staff.
Aerotech provides an outstanding compensation and benefit package which includes:
 stock ownership, profit sharing, and 401(K)
 medical, dental, vision, and life insurance
 tuition reimbursement program
If you are a highly motivated engineer with a desire for career growth, submit resume, QPA and 
salary requirements to:
Aerotech, Inc.
101 Zeta Drive 
Pittsburgh, PA 15238\
Attn: Human Resources
or E-mail at Ktaylor@aerotechinc.com__________________________________________________
Undergraduate Program
4450 Bayard Street
Wednesday, October 1, 1997
6:15  
7:00'
7:45
..............................Mass
............Hospitality Dinner
Presentation & Discussion
TOPIC: St. Therese of Lisieux,
The 3rd Woman Doctor in the Church
Come for the evening or any part of it. 
Information: 681-3181
Rsum
Morgan means more 
career opportunities
J.P. Morgan is a leading global financial firm that provides strategic 
advice, raises capital, trades financial instruments, and manages assets 
for corporations, governments, financial institutions, and private clients.
Interviews for Carnegie Mellon seniors will be held on 
October 21st for a position in
Internal Consulting Services
Please submit cover letter and resume by September 30th to 
Career Services Development Planning and Placement Office
It is our policy that students may apply 
to one program only.
JP Morgan
www.jpmorgan.com
J.P. Morgan is an equal opportunity employer.
ILLIO SHoOIme 
pILLIO aOgU SHRoo:e 
pILLIO hgOIIOe
{The one place to turn for all grad school questions
if you want to get an edge on getting into graduate 
rschool and higher test scores on the MCAT, LSAT, GMAT or GRE, The
Princeton Review offers the most effective ways to achieve your goals.
How do we do it? For starters, we combine solid academics with revolutionary 
test-talcing techniques. Our class sizes are intentionally small (no more than 15 
students), so you re guaranteed personal attention from our top instructors. 
And, you 11 receive all the FREE extra help you need.
FREE ADMISSIONS SEMINAR 
October 4, 1997 LSAT & GMAT 
October 18, 1997 MCAT
Attend one of these sessions and see how you will 
do on one of these tests. Call us now to reserve a 
spot or for more information: 800 2-REVIEW. Or, 
check us out at www.review.com.
The Princeton Review is not affiliated with Princeton University.
}
BEHIND EVERY ACHIEVEMENT, 
YOU'LL FIND AN 
EXTRAORDINARY DRIVE.
And thats only the beginning. Because at Quantum, theres more propelling 
our leadership in mass storage than disk and tape drives. Like the passion of our people. 
In fact, their extraordinary initiative has produced over 55 million disk drives. And with 
ambition like ours, we'll never rest on our laurels.
Our vision is to lead every aspect of storage into the digital age. Get more for your 
career than the same old drive.
Opportunities for graduates with MS/Ph.D. in EE:
On-Campus Interviews 
Monday, October 6th
For consideration, please mail or fax your resume to: Quantum, Human Resources 
Dept., indicating Job Code COCM0929, 500 McCarthy Blvd., Milpitas, CA 95035; FAX 
(408) 894-4152. See us on the World Wide Web: http://www.quantum.com. E-mail: 
jobs@qntm.com. Modem access: (415) 903-5815. 8, N, 1, ANSI/VT100. Principals 
only. Equal opportunity employer M/F/D/V.
Quantum
Ustsuden BSo elM areosSofdsonm

---------------------------------------------------

DIVERSIONS
Volume 92, Issue 5 The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 29 September 1997
This [benefit] was initiated has asked that the play only be 
through Michael Tuckers gener- performed for charitable causes, 
osity. We did not approach him, according to Stit. The Tuckers 
said Jay Carson, director of devel- have performed the play nuopmentfor Arts and Humanities, merous times for other chariwho are very involved in charitable 
causes, have been supporters of 
other various fundraising activi
ties for the Purnell Center includ
ing the Bud Yorkin benefit, accord
ing to Stit.
The Tuckers generosity in per
forming to raise money for the 
Purnell Center has also become a 
model for other alumni. After Arne 
Zaslove, a 1961 School of Drama - 
graduate, heard about the Love i 
Letters benefit, he also decided I 
he wanted to help. According to I 
Stit, Zaslove will hold a I 
fundraising event for the / 
Purnell Center this July in the / 
Seattle theatre where he is ar- / 
tistic director.
Michael Tucker inspired J 
him, and its entirely possible / 
that others of our drama I 
alumni will want to do some- j 
thing like this too, said Stit. /
[CMU] was the best I 
possible professional edu- m 
cation I could get, said I 
Tucker. It was between 3 
Carnegie [Mellon] and /
Yale, which was a j 
graduate program, so / 
Carnegie was really / 
my best shot. I was j 
very fortunate to get / I
in, especially given / 
my grades in high / /
school. / /
By BECKY A. COWSER
Tartan Features Editor
From Holly Hunter to Steven Bochco, 
the School of Drama is home to many 
famous alumni. Periodically, these 
alumni come back to share their expe
riences as working actors. However, it 
is rare that they come back to per
form, especially without payment. But 
thats exactly what Michael Tucker 
i and his wife Jill Eikenberry will be 
\ doing this Friday and Saturday in 
\ A. R. Gurneys Love Letters, a 
\ fundraising production for the 
i V Purnell Center for the Arts.
V \ This gift is enormously gen\ ; \ erous, said Peter Frisch, head 
V \ of the School of Drama. Its 
\ \ very typical of Tucker.
\ \ [Tucker] is one of our very
\ \ accomplished, very suc\ \ cessful alumni.... I think 
\ \ they [both] are beloved 
\ \ by the public for their 
\ \ roles on L.A. Law,  
\ \ said Susan Stit, direc\ \ \ tor of development\
\ for the western 
\ United States.
1 Tucker gradu
al ated from the 
\ \ School of Drama
in 1966. He then 
went on to star 
in various stage
i and screen pro
ductions, includ
ing the televi
sion drama L. A. 
Law where he 
portrayed the 
lawyer Stuart 
; Markowitz.
Eikenberry was 
also featured on 
the show as law
yer Ann Kelsey.
courtesy of University Relations 
The husband and wife duo of Jill Eikenberry and Michael Tucker will star 
in Love Letters in McConomy Auditorium.
Theyre getting no fee at all  ties they support.
thats a nice precedent as well. Tucker said that both he and
I think it just seemed like a his wife enjoy performing this 
natural thing to do, said Tucker, piece because it feels good. Since 
I got a lot from [CMU], they had they both got their professional 
a need, and we have so much fun start in the theatre and met in 
doing the piece. Its such a great the theatre, performing a play 
way to raise money for theatre.... such as Love Letters is a great 
It seemed poetic. experience.
Love Letters is a play about the According to Frisch, alumni are 
intricate workings of a man and invaluable resources in the School 
womans lifelongrelationship, told of Drama because of their signifithrough their written correspon- cant roles in teaching, fundraising, 
dence. The playwright, Gurney, and networking. The Tuckers,
Love Letters will 
run this Friday 
and Saturday, Oc
tober ILO at S pm 
in McConomy Au- . 
ditorium in the 
University Center, f 
For tickets or more ? 
information, call j 
HSLoOmepJulee White/Tartan Art Editor
(Kresfje season puts strong leadIna iacfles in spotfiaFit
D
By TRACY ODELL
Tartan Diversions Editor
You might call this season at the 
Kresge Theatre the year of the woman. 
All the plays, including the season opener 
The Philadelphia Story, feature strong 
women in the leading roles.
We have an exceptionally strong 
group of women in our senior class 
and we want to showcase their tal
ent, said Peter Frisch, head of the 
School of Drama.
The plays feature women in various 
times and places throughout history. 
From Molieres The Learned Ladies to 
Cole Porters Kiss Me Kate, the audience 
will be able to journey through life with 
the women in Kresges lineup. The di
verse selection of works provides unique 
opportunities not only for the audience, 
but also for the actors.
Its vital for the students training 
that they do both contemporary and 
classic works, said Frisch. Kresge The
atre shows feature senior drama ma
jors, many of whom will be off to star in 
bigger theaters soon. Sophomores make 
up the choruses in the musicals.
The Philadelphia Story , the first of six 
plays this season, is a romantic comedy 
by Philip Barry. It tells the story of a 
strong society woman, Tracy Lord, who 
has little compassion for hu
man weakness. Tracy hasjust 
divorced one husband and is 
about to marry another when 
the action starts.
Dagmara Dominczyk plays 
the leading lady, a role origi
nally written for Kathryn 
Hepburn. Tracy Lord is on 
stage 85 percent of the time 
 shes a true tour-de-force, 
said Dexter Fidler, director 
oiThePhiladelphia Story and 
a graduate directing student.
I think Dagmara has come 
into her own this year. She is 
quite a striking presence in 
this role, said Frisch.
Fidler explains that the 
first and third acts can be 
viewed as light comedy while 
the second act gets to the 
heart of the matter. What I 
love about Philip Barry is he 
has a wonderful blend of com
edy and very deep emotional feelings, 
said Fidler.
This semester Kresge will also host 
The Learned Ladies and Berlin to Broad
way. The Learned Ladies, a Moliere sat
ire on amateur support groups, features 
Philamente, a strong mother figure. 
Berlin to Broadway is a musical mon
tage of Kurt Weills works, such as 
Threepenny Opera, a song originally 
sung by a strong female character.
The second half of the season opens 
with Female Transport, a play 
depicting the transport of 
women prisoners from England 
to Australia in the 19th cen
tury. Following on the heels of 
this hard-hitting drama is the 
American musical masterpiece, 
Kiss Me Kate. Flyin West will 
close the season with yet more 
strong female characters. The 
plays tells the story of vision
ary black women staking a 
claim to land that will make 
them free in 1898 Kansas.
No matter what your taste, 
Kresge offers something to suit 
your thirst for drama as women 
take the center s
(L-R) Michael Zlabinger, Dagmara Dominczyk, Paul Domencic, and Adam Donshak star in The 
Philadelphia Story. The play is the first in a series of six this season at the Kresge Theatre.
The Philadelphia Story opens 
Friday and runs through Octo
ber amp Call the box office at x8- 
oOmefor ticket information. Dis
counts are available for students, 
faculty, and staff

---------------------------------------------------

L12The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  29 September 1997
New release keeps long-time fan happy
By RYAN D. SCHILLING
Tartan Assistant News Editor
Bjork. How do you describe Bjork 
Gudmundsdottir? You cant, because 
you never know what shes going to do 
next. First, she wowed us with her 
poppy dance debut called, appropri
ately enough, Debut..
Artist: Bjork 
Album: Homogenic 
Label: Elektra
While I liked a few songs off that 
album, Bjork didnt completely draw 
me in until she released her sopho
more effort Post. That eclectic album 
featured everything from big band on 
Its Oh So Quiet to Latin-jazz on I 
Miss You and everything else in be
tween. That album was very much an 
ensemble of many artists, one of them 
being techno/hip-hop artist Tricky who 
co-wrote and produced on two tracks.
I anxiously awaited the remix album 
Telegram, that arrived last January, 
but was still disappointed 
by the dearth of new mate
rial coming from Bjork. But 
finally, last Tuesday, the day 
arrived. As soon as I fin
ished lunch, I raced down to 
Vibes, and returned for that 
all-important first listen. All 
I can say is the dynamic little 
Icelander has done it again 
with Homogenic.
Unlike Post, Bjork has 
opted for a more solo effort 
this time around. She pro
duces or co-produces on ev
ery track, and of course, 
she wrote a large majority 
of the music and lyrics. Its 
obvious that Bjork has 
been influenced by techno 
in the recent years, as elec
tronic music permeates the album. 
However, Bjork has an affinity for 
sharp contrast, and so the use of live 
strings and orchestration is exten
experience this track wearing head
phones is a sonic journey. Bjork lay
ers several takes of her singing at 
the same time. This, together with 
the lyrics, which are really just a 
short poem repeated several times, 
makes for the most soothing mo
ment on the album.
The next track, Bachelorette, 
which is to be the next single, is the 
most stunning on the album. Deodato 
completely outdoes himself with a full 
orchestra athiis disposal by adding an 
incredible and dramatic arrangement 
for this powerful love song. I hesitate 
to say love song because I usually 
dont pay any attention to lyrics, lis
tening to the voice as just another 
instrument, but today I realized what 
she was saying in the song. My only 
complaint is that Bjork uses the fadeout on this track. Im no songwriter, 
but it always bothers me when an 
artist cant come up with an effective 
way to close a song.
While the rest of the album is very 
good, only two other tracks are of
courtesy of Elektra Entertainment 
Bjorks album, Homogenic, hit stores Tuesday.
particular note. 5 Years at first 
sounds like youre listening to one of 
the original Nintendo games. Its re
ally quite funny. But once Bjork adds 
her voice and her percussion ele-sive. Once again, Eumir Deodato (con
ductor and arrangements on Hyper- ments, you get into the song despite
the cheesy Nintendo music back
ground. Alarm Clock is noteworthy 
for being the only track that you could 
feasibly dance to. While all the other 
songs are too slow, too stilted, or the 
drumbeats too obscure, this clever 
ditty actually gets your feet tapping 
and your body moving.
I have difficulty explaining what 
this album is good for. As said, this 
is definitely not a dance album, but 
at the same time, its not laid back. 
This is very good head music, 
though. And if youre like me, even 
the darkest music, provided its 
good, will make you happy. Bjork 
makes me happy, and thats all that 
she needs to do.
ballad and Isobel from Post) pro
vides the arrangements.
The album lacks off with an incred
ible set of four tracks, the first being 
Hunter, which immediately provides 
an example of the use of both electronic 
and stringed instruments in the same 
song. Next up is the first single, Joga. 
Its a very odd choice when you con
sider it from a promotional standpoint, 
but the song is still very interesting. 
Again, strings are implemented, and 
in fact, they, along with Bjorks voice, 
are the only things you hear for the 
first minute. Then she lets a strange 
electronic percussion line enter the mix, 
slowly bringing the song to its climax.
The beautiful Unravel follows. To
Tools to power your ideas.
Blues act thrills audience
By KATY HARRIS
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
For a man of 89 years, Howard 
Anderson can play. Anderson and his 
trio, collectively called The 
Armstrongs, gave an impressive per
formance Saturday night as the open
ing act in the Pittsburgh Folk Music 
Societys Folk Masters Series.
Calliope, as the group is called, did 
well in choosing Anderson to open up 
the festival  the man is amazing. 
Besides being able to play 22 instru
ments, Andersons unlikely pairing 
of traditional bluegrass and jazz in
struments with blues favorites is what 
has made his music and talent so dis
tinctive over the years.
And there have been a lot of years. 
Born in the backhills of Tennessee in 
1909, Anderson first learned to play 
the mandolin, but soon picked up the 
fiddle and other instruments along 
the way. His history in the mountains 
of Tennessee and in urban Chicago
has influenced a remarkable blend 
of music that combines the blues, blue
grass, jazz, swing, folk, and country 
into one extraordinary listening 
experience.
Anderson was in fine form Saturday 
night, but he was not the only one. 
Ralphe Anderson, Howards son and 
bass player, has been playing the bass 
professionally since the young age of 
13 when he toured with Smokey 
Robinson and the Miracles. He has 
also made appearances with the Lon
don Symphony, Jeff Beck, and Frank 
Zappa. The third member of the trio is 
Ray Kamalay on acoustic guitar. Both 
Ralphe Anderson and Kamalay gave 
breathtaking solos during several 
songs as each showed off some im
mense talent.
The real star of the show, however, 
was Howard himself. At times during 
the groups almost two and a half hour 
set, Anderson kept the audience laugh
ing with comic interludes and anec
dotes from his life.
Of the 15 songs the group performed, 
one of the most memorable numbers 
was the Mandolin Blues, in which 
Anderson played the mandolin like 
there was no tomorrow. This is a 
mighty hard instrument to play blues 
on, I tell you, said Anderson at the 
opening of the song, and then pro
ceeded to make it look easy.
Other crowd-pleasers were the jazz 
rendition of La Cucaracha and the 
bluesy John Henry. In fact, the only 
impediment of the evening was the 
problem Anderson kept having with 
the bow of his fiddle, which produced 
ear-splitting screeches in addition to 
the wails of the blues.
If this show is indicative of the en
tire season, Calliopes 1997-98 Folk 
Masters Concert Series is worth giv
ing a listen.
The Folk Masters Series will run 
until June 6. All concerts are held at 
8 pm in Carnegie Lecture Hall. Call 
687-8800 for ticket information.Band relies on tour experience
By ANDREW FRANCIS
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Although they experienced some suc
cess with the hit single Sister from 
their debut album Foma, Oklahoma 
Citys The Nixons have never really 
won mainstream acceptance. For that 
reason, they have been touring inces
santly, playing over 300 shows their 
last time on the road. As could be ex
pected, the tour gave The Nixons plenty 
of opportunity to develop their 
songwritingand playing talents, as well 
as some valuable life experience, both 
of which contribute to their self-titled 
sophomore release.
Artist: The Nixons 
Album: The Nixons 
Label: MCA
The Nixons is not a radical change 
for the band; rather, they have modi
fied their sound some and added 
some emotional punch to their tunes. 
The result is a batch of loud but 
melodic tunes that evoke every sort 
of emotion.
For this album, The Nixons replaced 
bassist Ricky Brooks with Ricky 
Wolking, and it is Wolking along with 
drummer John Humphrey who define 
the bands sound. Humphreys winding 
beats, along with Wolkings fuzzy, swirl
ing bass, form a unique rhythm section 
that serves as the basis for most of the 
tracks on The Nixons.
Guitarist Jesse Davis and singer-guitarist Zac Maloy provide a range of 
different textures and sounds to go along 
with this foundation. They crank up 
the amps on rockers like In Spite of 
Herself and Screaming Yellow, and 
aim for more depth and melodic quality 
on tunes like December and The Fall.
Maloys vocals add another dimension 
to the band. He never sounds overbear
ing, and is able to blend into the songs 
without changing their impact. The 
albums lyrics deal mainly with differ
ent facets of rela
tionships, manag
ing to sound ur
gent and soulful 
without being too 
sentimental.
In most of the 
songs, the music 
matches the theme, 
but in the standout 
Sad Sad Me, the 
emotion implied in 
the title is set to a 
melody that seems 
almost too happy, 
and it is this differ
ence in styles that 
give the tune its 
punch. On leadoff 
single and track 
Baton Rouge, the 
swampy sound of 
the verse gives way 
to the uplifting cho
rus, as the mood 
shifts from solemn 
to hopeful.
Solid tracks can 
be found through
out The Nixons, yet 
some of the tracks 
at the end seem to 
sound quite simi
lar. ...At the Sun 
and Leave are 
both near the end
Perhaps the thing that prevents The 
Nixons from really making it big is 
their reluctance to really let go  each 
song seems to be controlled and not 
allowed to really explode. Perhaps if
courtesy of MCA
The Nixons new album presents a modified but familiar sound.
and are difficult to differentiate between.
The final song, Shine, manages to go on 
for seven minutes without becoming dull 
or repetitive, although Maloys trumpet 
adds little to the song.
they could explore that element of the 
band they could create some really 
seminal music, but for now, their dis
tinctive brand of alternative rock will 
do just fine.Festival ends on good note
Take advantage of these valuable 
rebates available at your campus 
bookstore through 10-31-ST.
Director 6 Multimedia Studio
Explore the most powerful tools for multimedia 
and the Web.
Director's with Electronic Documentation
Explore the most powerful tool for multimedia 
and the Web.spc
FiBeHarid Graphic Studio 7
Explore the most powerful design tools lor print 
and internet graphics.
IKs
FreSHlflB 7
Explore the most powerful design tool lor print 
and internet graphics.
Flash
Explore the easiest way to create fast Web 
multimedia.
'See specially marked boxes at your campus bookstore lor details. 
Director 6 with Electronic Documentation available lo students and faculty only. 2906.8.97.
By REBECCA FRIBUSH
Tartan Assistant Forum Editor
Two out of three aint bad. Two 
of the one-act plays premiering 
at the fourth and final weekend 
of the 1997 Pittsburgh New 
Works Festival were excellent. 
One, unfortunately, was not.
Vista, directed by Denise 
Pullen, has the dubious honor of 
containing more references to 
intimate bodily functions per 
capita than any play Ive seen or 
hope to see. Bowel movements, 
childbirth, and sex are all recur
ring motifs in Mike Murrays 
script. A roll of toilet paper, tossed 
down a mountain in a fit of anger, 
is a key prop.
Stanley (Garbie Dukes) and 
Winny (Carla Delaney) are spend
ing their anniversary hiking in 
the mountains. As they blab their 
thoughts to the conveniently ever
present mystical mountain guide 
(Lamman Rucker), we discover 
that Stanley hasnt been attracted 
to Winny since he saw her giving 
birth to their daughter.
Delaney plays Winny at such a 
hysterical pitch that you almost 
cant blame Stanley. Dukes and 
Rucker portray their characters 
more realistically. Yet the play 
still feels contrived, from 
Ruckers oh-so-profound 
musings about the spirit of the 
mountain to the big finale 
Winnys re-creation of the birth 
of her child.
After such an artificial play, 
Brian Carrigans Something New 
to Want was especially refresh
ing. The authenticity of 
Carrigans dialogue shone 
through from the first exchange, 
aided by the actors relaxed and 
natural portrayals of their char
acters and Lora Oxenreiters lowkey direction.
The action cuts back and forth 
between friends Peter (Brian 
Bacon) and Adam (Andy Allen) 
at a late-night meal in a dingy 
diner and at the eventful party 
they had come from.
Bacon, as the cynical Peter, 
especially stands out. The dia
logue is incredibly funny, both in 
its dead-on portrayal of the ways 
young adults interact with each 
other and its digressions into such 
topics as which type of wine would 
go best with roasted children. Yet 
when its characters delve into 
more serious matters, such as 
Adams loss of illusions and 
Peters slow climb out of hope
lessness following a failed rela
tionship, it doesnt come across 
as forced or arbitrary. Plus, it has 
a realistically bitter and ambigu
ous ending, rather than a fake 
happy one.
Sean Michael ODonnells The 
Butter Bin kept me  and the 
rest of the audience  laughing
nearly nonstop for the duration 
of the play. The Butter Bin, a 
murder mystery featuring the 
rich and dysfunctional Blair 
family, is such broad comedy 
that one can laugh at suicide 
attempts and heroin shooting 
without feeling guilty.
Detective Loeffler (Erick Irvis) 
arrives at the Blair house one 
night to investigate the whole 
family in connection with the 
murder of a woman who was poi
soned, clubbed in the head, run 
over by a car, and set on fire for 
good measure. This provides the 
impetus for a satiric look at 
screwed-.up families. The rest of 
the family is persuaded to ignore 
son Bens (Ronald J. Gmys) con
stant suicide attempts because 
mother Helen (Bryn Jameson) 
saw an episode of Donahue that 
explained that the suicidals just 
crave attention  Ben wont do 
anything with that butchers 
knife unless his family shows him 
they care.
After both father Preston (Mike 
Murray) and daughter Evie (Mai'}' 
Lipple) confess to parts of the mur
der, Evie blames her dads genes 
for making her a murderess. 
ODonnells absurdist, joke-aminute style, Paula DAlessandris 
energetic direction, and the actors 
over-the-top portrayals of their 
characters combine for a clever 
black comedy.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  29 September 1997L13
40 33/L
1 1 1 < 1  M I I
movies you may have seen before....,
By GREG MARCKS
Thursday, October 2
Basquiat
I once took a class in Basquiat Weaving. Its kind of 
like art, but more crafty. So this guy, Jean-Michel, he 
did art until he died. He was living in a box until David 
Bowie as Andy Warhol tripped over him and asked 
him if he could do anything about his hair.
Then Dennis Hopper came along with his chain of 
all beef patty donut huts, and the threesome re
cruited Gary Oldman and Christopher Walken as 
epileptic mercenaries to carry out their evil scheme 
of geriatric seed germination. Willem Dafoe gave 
one of the concentrated hydro-seeds to Courtney 
Love, and she tripped out for, like, 12 days.
At 7:30, 10 pm, and 12:30 am
In McConomy
Friday, October 3
Austin Powers: International 
Man of Mystery
Mike Myers has redeemed himself from such ri
diculous embarassments as So I Married an Axe 
; Murderer and The English Patient by writing this 
movie himself. He is paired with model Elizabeth 
;; Hurley, who is strangely excited by his brown, 
S misshapen teeth.
; Anyone who thinks You Only Live Twice is a 
perfect film or who considers James Bond 
unmockable should not see this flicker. Play spotthe-cameo with Tom Arnold, Carrie Fisher, Rob 
Lowe, Priscilla Presley, and Christian Slater. And 
although cinematographer Peter Deming is less 
 challenged here than in Lost Highway, he deserves 
a pat on the back.
At 11 pm and 1 am
In McConomy
Saturday, October 4
Jurassic Park: The Lost World
A wise man once said it is better to leave well 
enough alone. Steven Spielberg went back to wake 
well enough up and milk it for a little more by making 
Jeff Goldblum go to a new island with a bunch of 
dinosaurs. Vince Vaughn, also comes alongfor the ride, 
whom you may remember as the star of Swingers.
I dont think theres much of a plot for me to 
summarize here. I think youre just supposed to go 
and watch dinosaurs run around and eat people up 
while a group of good guys try to stop a group of 
stupid bad guys from transporting all the giant 
teeth with legs to San Diego where they hope to gain 
a monopoly in the live dinosaur market. Its based 
on a true story.
At noon, 2:30, 11 pm, and 1:30 am
In McConomy
Sunday, October 5
Master of the Flying Guillotine
This could quite possibly be the most fantastic 
Sunday night movie in recent years: a Hong Kong 
martial arts flick with the alternate title The One 
Armed Boxer vs. The Flying Guillotine.
But wait, theres more! Like the little detail that 
the flying guillotine master is blind, so before he can 
- fight the one-armed boxer, he has to practice by 
becoming a serial killer of one-armed men. Or the 
fact that the one-armed boxer has his own selfdefense school, where he teaches kids to hold their 
breath so that they can run up walls and across 
ceilings. Throw a go-go-gadget Indian fakir into the 
mix, who can extend his arms to lengths not exceed
ing 10 feet! Cancel our dinner date, sweetheart.
At 8, 10 pm, and midnight
In McConomy
Name the Quote:
Bite your teeth into the ass of life!
(She has green eyes!  James Hong in Big 
Trouble in Little China)
Movie portrays family values
By STEVE BIDWA
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Forget the fact that its a sin
fully awful picture of Vanessa 
Williams on the movie posters. 
This movie rises above it.
1 What: Soul Food 
I Director:George Tillman 
I Company:Twentieth
I Century Fox
Momma Joe eventually falls ill. 
As soon as she hits the hospital 
sheets, the problems begin for 
the family. Without Momma Joe 
to mediate, things begin to get 
ugly. Tillman does an excellent 
job of juggling many different 
mini-stories of the three married 
sisters and young Ahmad, along 
with cousin Faith, who previously 
has caused major waves in the
moments and is able to get the 
audience groaning (audibly, I 
might add) at the screen right 
before a character is obviously 
about to screw up and do some
thing stupid.
Soul Food is crammed with 
characters who you want to know 
more about. The most important 
yet least-seen cat on the silver 
screen is the crazy uncle in the
nieces as if shes his dead sister, 
but, in doing so, shows the niece, 
and the audience, that she must 
step up and fill Momma Joes 
shoes and pull the now-spastic 
family back together again.
Its a funny movie that stays 
true to real life and actually por
trays what a lot of us never had 
nor could maintain  a strong, 
tight, extended family. Soul Food
Written and directed by George 
Tillman Jr., Soul Food is about 
family, and the beginning of the 
movie does a good job of summing 
up the main theme of the picture. 
The introduction is a medley of 
old family photos, both older 
black-and-white pictures of the 
eldest members of the family, and 
newer color snapshots of impor
tant moments or achievements of 
different people in the family.
Tillman based the script on his 
own experiences while growing 
up in his large Midwestern fam
ily. Tillman grew up enjoying 
monstrous Sunday dinners pre
pared by his grandmother. These 
family gatherings helped keep 
the family together through prob
lems small and large for over 
three generations.
The anchor and spiritual guide 
of both Tillmans real family and 
Soul Food's family is the grand
mother. InSoulFood, grandma is 
Momma Joe, an awesome woman 
who can deal deftly with her 12- 
year-old grandson Ahmad, the 
movies narrator, and equally 
manage her three feuding daugh
ters, all the while dealing out some 
seriously deep and accurate wis
dom on living ones life correctly 
and keeping your head up.
Well, all things must come to 
an end sometime, and as such
Encore...
Matriarch Momma Joe (Irma P. Hall) helps her daughters (left to right: 
L. Williams) prepare the weekly family dinner.
family but who now has 
changed, and various edge char
acters like Simuel, an ex-boyfriend of one of the sisters who is 
determined to re-ignite the flame 
despite the fact that she got mar
ried only days ago.
The movie has plenty of funny
family, Uncle Pete, who never 
leaves his room upstairs in 
Momma Joes house.
Pete acts as the turning point 
in the movie, and does so in a cool 
way. He doesnt miraculously be
come sane and save the day; in
stead, he babbles to one of his
1997 Twentieth Century Fort 
Vivica A. Fox, Nia Long, Vanessa
is a film, not a black film. This 
movie is another step in black 
filmmakers integrating all mov
ies into one market and eliminat
ing the stereotype of black fami
lies never being wealthy or hav
ing big houses in shows unless 
their name is Cosby.
Veteran band rocks local club
By CHARLES FRYMAN
Tartan Staffwriter
This past Tuesday, I went to see Yo La Tengo 
at Club Laga and met a wacky old man. He 
came in toward the end of the concert and tried 
to hiss Yo La Tengo off the stage. He also dug 
his elbow into me a few times, which I guess 
was inadvertent. But even with this crazy guy 
running around trying to ruin things, Yo La 
Tengo did manage to finish their concert, and 
it was a great one.
The bands members, who I know only by 
their first names, are difficult to define by 
the instruments that they play. Everyone in 
the band switched instruments often. The 
drums, for the most part, were played by 
Georgia, who used her lovely voice to sing Yo 
La Tengos more sentimental tunes. Ira did 
most of the singing and keyboards and nearly 
all the guitar work for the show, but he 
would also head back to assist Georgia on 
drums at times. James was the bassist, but 
he started out the concert on drums and 
played keyboards as well as singing for two 
songs. It was hard to keep track of the band 
as they hurried to a new instrument every 
few songs.
Of the three members of Yo La Tengo, Ira 
was the most flamboyant. While Georgia
and James would play with checked emo
tion, Ira would bob and weave like he was 
wacky on the junk. He started off the show 
at keyboards and he would often dip out of 
sight as the music took him over and he 
crouched to the floor.
Iras forte, though, was the feedback gui
tar solo. Like some cosmic force was work
ing through ______
him, Ira would 
kneel in front of 
his amplifier 
and coax won
derful sounds 
from his guitar.
One song that 
focused on this 
talent had
James holding out long notes on the key
board and Georgia playing an irregular 
drumbeat as Ira created monstrous feed
back and periodically changed guitars as if 
looking for one that sounded just right.
The song left the audience with an eerie 
feeling, but it demonstrated Iras skill in 
this all but lost art.
Yo La Tengo is touring because of the 
release of their newest album, I Can Hear 
the Heart Beating As One. Sadly, it is the 
only Yo La Tengo disc that I own. I was glad
to hear Yo La Tengo play Autumn Sweater 
and Shadows, two of my favorites. My favprite song off I Can Hear the Heart Beating As 
One, Center of Gravity, was absent from the 
concert, but it didnt make the show any less 
enjoyable.
The band wasnt leaving the stage without 
an encore. So they returned with some thank"... Ira was the most flamboyant. While 
Georgia and James would play with 
checked emotion, Ira would bob and 
weave like he was wacky on the junk.
yous and a few more songs for the crowd. 
Unfortunately, Laga turns into a dance club 
around 11 pm so the wacky old man and 
others like him can dance the night away. 
Alas, Yo La Tengos mics were turned off 
after a few songs and I left with memories of 
one of the best concerts I have ever seen.'
Love The Tartan :)
UN-CAMPUS RECRUITING AT CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY
Informational Seminar: October 1,1997 
6:00 Odp Check Career Center 
Refreshments will be served 
Interviews: October 2,1997 
Visit our website and stop by the Placement Office for details and sign up dates
Imagine working at a place where the discoveries of research are transferred directly into 
the development of real-world applications, such as air defense, space surveillance, 
communications and air traffic control systems. An environment of vast resources where the 
advancement of technology and one's intelligence are highly valued. You might call it the 
opportunity of a lifetime - we call it MIT Lincoln Laboratory.
If you are 
pursuing a degree In:
Electrical Engineering 
Physics 
Mathematics 
Computer Science
.....we want to talk to you.
Office of Human Resources, MT Lincoln Laboratory, Box CN97,244 Wood Street, Lexington, MA 
02173-9108. Fax: (781) 981-7086.
Equal Opportunity Employer, M/F/D/V., U.S. Citizenship Required.
LINCOLN LABORATORY
Massachusetts institute or SeiamhOh.Y

---------------------------------------------------

October 5,1997
La Promesse
is playing at the Harris Theatre 
through October 9.
Basquiat
will play at 7;30,10 pm, and 
12:30 am on Thursday 
in ItfcGonomy Auditorium.
Austin Powers: International 
Man of Mystery
will play at 11 pm and 
1 am on Friday in 
McConomy Auditorium.
From Harkheh to Rhine
will play at 8 pm on Friday and
2 pm on Saturday at the 
Carnegie Museum of Art.
Jurassic Park: The Lost World
will play at rfoon. 2:30.11 pm. 
and 12:30 am on Saturday 
in McConomy Auditorium.
Master of the Flying Guillotine
will play at 8.10 pm. and 
midnight on Sunday in 
McConomy Auditorium.
My Darling Clementine
wiil play at 8 pm on Saturday 
and 2 p on Sunday at the 
Carnegie Museum of Art.
The Man With a Movie Camera
will play at 7 pm on Sunday at 
the Carnegie Museum of Art.
SLUGS!
...Have you got the skills? 
Having the ability to not 
look, no matter what is 
going on...
(ouch)Guinness!
...Tact?
Tact is for Women, and 
guys who get some...
Fosters(oof)!
...I feel like a f rog 
being licked...
(ow) Becks! 
Well miss you 
Tracy, even if 
you are the 
Music Nazi. 
 The Board 
GO HOME SCRAPPY!
Fullers(ugh)!
Salo = Sex in a Bottle
University CALENDAR
happen from 10 am until 6 pm. On Sun
day, there will be a jam session and singalong at 1:30 pm. For more information, 
call 621-8008.
River City Brass Band will perform Jolly 
Old England on Sunday at 8 pm at the Car
negie Music Hall. The program will fea
ture familiar tunes from the British Isles 
including the works of Williams, Elgar, and 
Sullivan. For more information, contact 
Bill Schlageter at 322-7222.yornanAf
Midnight Manna is a half-hour contem
plative worship service held in the UC 
Chapel on Thursdays at midnight. Mid
night Manna features scripture, music, 
and prayer. This week features the music 
of Estonian composer Arvo Part. Midnight 
Manna is sponsored by the United Cam
pus Ministry of Pittsburgh.
Choral Compline will be performed by 
the Pittsburgh Compline Choir at Heinz 
Chapel on the Pitt campus at 8:30 pm on 
Sunday evenings. The prayer at the close 
of the day is the way that the church says, 
good night. Stephen Schall of St. 
Sebastians Church will be the guest or
ganist on Sunday. For more information, 
call 682-6886.
Roman Catholic Mass takes place every 
Sunday at 10:30 am and 8 pm in Posner 
Hall, Mellon Auditorium in GSIA. It will 
also take place Monday through Friday at 
12:30 pm in the UC Chapel.
Download the Holy Spirit in the UC 
Chapel on Sunday at 6 pm. United Cam
pus Ministry of Pittsburgh holds a Protes
tant worship service each week for those 
who want to go to church but just can't roll 
out of bed on Sunday morning. Go to 
www.andrew.cmu.edu / user/ssteck / ucm 
for more information or call 682-1051. 
Stacey Steck will be preaching this week.weioewi
Patty! ... Set The Table! will be on ex
hibit at the Hewlett Gallery through Fri
day. Patty Gallagher, renowned for her outlandishly decorated vintage bras, designed 
the installation with surreal settings. Visi
tors will be able to sit with lavishly dressed 
mannequins or dress themselves in a 
milliners shop. For more information, con
tact Petra Fallaux at x8-3877.
UC Art Gallery is going to exhibit the 
work of alumnus Jeffrey Dorsey through 
October 17. His show Sincerely will docu
ment his work since graduation.
readingseries I
Common Grounds Coffee House: Fall 
1997 poetry reading series will feature 
Andrena Zawinski and Sharon McDermott 
on Tuesday, October 7. Open poetry will 
take place at 8 pm and scheduled readings 
at 8:30 pm. For more information, call 
Common Grounds at 362-1190.
Nickel Beer Night. The student under
graduate reading series has started. Read
ings will be taking place at the Frame at 8 
pm on October 18th and November 12th. 
For more information, email Deanna 
Rubin at dr4b+@andrew.cmu.edu.
Mesa Espaola, The Spanish Brown Bag 
and Conversation Hour, will take place ev
ery Tuesday from 11:30 am to 12:30 pm in 
the first-floor eating area in the UC next 
to the pool. It is hosted by faculty mem
bers Zulema Zattoni and Bladi Ruiz. Ev
eryone is encouraged to come share Span
ish conversation as well as meet other 
Spanish students. Contact the Depart
ment of Modem Languages at x8-5669 for 
more information.
Greek Peer Advisors of CMU are host
ing the first annual Great Greek Food Run/ 
Walk on October 4 on campus. Preregis
tration forms are available in the Student 
Life Office or from your RA. Registration 
is $5, and all proceeds will be donated to 
the Pittsburgh Food Bank. There will be a 
limited number of free t-shirts for those 
who sign up early. The 5K run/walk orga
nizers hope to foster a better community 
atmosphere for both Greeks and nonGreeks with this event.
Advisors and Mentors, the next part of 
the 1997-98 Graduate Student Seminar 
Series, will be taking place on October 9 
from noon until 1:30 pm in the McKenna 
Room in the UC. Omer Akin, professor of 
architecture, and doctoral students 
Vanessa Hill (GSIA) and Monica RuizNoriega (Biological Sciences) will present 
tips and answer questions on choosing an 
advisor, working (and getting along) with 
an advisor, how to change advisors (if nec
essary), and the difference between advi
sor and mentor. Lunch will be provided. 
To register, email Kathleen Minadeo 
Johnson at kmj+@andrew.cmu.edu no 
later than 5 pm, Monday, October 6. 
Specify that you will be attending Advi
sors and Mentors, and indicate if you re
100,Bysy 01 wyw LBny 0BnyBno
But can he do the Watusi? Austin Powers: International Man of Mystery plays on Friday in McConomy Auditorium.
Scotch n Soda will perform two oneacts plays, The Ugly Duckling by A.A. 
Milne and Here We Are by Dorothy Parker, 
on October 3 at 8 pm and October 4 at 5 
and 8 pm in Breed Hall (Margaret Mor
rison 103). Tickets are only $1.
Af ampus
Student Dormitory Council is having its 
next meeting this Wednesday at 7:30 pm 
in the Connan Room in the UC. Partici
pating in SDC enables interaction with ad
ministration on campus issues and plan
ning campus events. For more informa
tion, contact Andy Sadhwani, SDC Public 
Relations, at x2-3003.
Kaffeestunde, or German Coffee Hour, 
will take place on Tuesdays from 3:30 to 
4:30 pm in the first-floor eating area in 
the UC next to the pool. People who speak 
or are learning German are welcome to at
tend. Contact Professor Anne Green of the 
Department of Modern Languages at x8- 
5669 for more information.
Jeff 
All right! Four fingers! 
Bass(mmph)Ale! 
Jill,
That bag of stuff really 
was da bomb!
 Richard
dont sell me 
down the river!
Happy 
Birthday 
Ryan S.
the voice of t
You can advertise for free 
In The Tartan!
If you know of an event on or off cam
pus that has relevance to the campus 
community, mail it to The Tartan, Box 
17 in the Carnegie Mellon University Cen
ter or email auyoung@andrew.cmu.edu 
by Thursday at 5 pm.
Vox Populi is a forum open to the en
tire campus community! To submit a vox, 
simply send it to The Tartan, Box 17 via 
campus mail, drop it in the Vox Populi 
drop box on the infamous Tartan Server, 
or email it to auyoung@andrew. cmu.edu.
Vox Populi contains 10 percent fruit 
juice. The rest of it is filled with pure 
schnagendorfs. For more information, 
call 1-800-M0RE-V0X.
lyAefd vf
Hillel will be celebrating Rosh Hashanah 
on Wednesday in Rangos Hall with ser
vices at 7 pm and dinner at 8:30 pm. RSVP 
for dinner by Wednesday. The cost will be 
$8. Services will also take place on Thurs
day at 9 am in McConomy Auditorium with 
Tashlich to follow. The Rosh Hashanah 
Rap will be at 4 pm in the Danforth Room 
in the UC. On Friday, services will be at 9 
am in the Connan Room. Also, home hos
pitality is available. Call Hillel to ask for 
a meal reservation with a family in Squir
rel Hill. For more information, call Hillel 
at 621-8875.
Yom Kippur Celebration sponsored by 
Hillel will be at Pitt. The Kol Nidre Ser
vice will be at 7 pm on October 10 in the 
William Pitt Union Ballroom. On October
11, services will take place in the William 
Pitt Union Ballroom at 9 am. Yizkor 
(mourners) services will take place at 3 pm 
and Neilah (concluding) services will be at 
6 pm. Breakfast will be at 8 pm in the 
Kurtzman Room. For more information, 
call Hillel at 621-8875.
Penn and Teller will be making things 
disappear at Byham Theater on Novem
ber 2 at 8 pm. Tickets range from $25 to 
$30. Tickets are available by calling Ticketmaster at 323-1919.
Ringling Bros Barnum and Bailey will 
be performing at th.e Pittsburgh Civic 
Arena from October 22 through October 
26. Tickets range from $5 to $25. For tick
ets, call Ticketmaster at 323-1919.
pholpoyHHHHH
quire a vegetarian or kosher lunch. Due to 
space constraints, you must have pre-registered to attend.
Tips on Reading Financial Statements 
for Both Personal and Professional 
Gain. Molly Beerman, project director of 
Financial Management Process, will give 
quick tips on reading financial statements 
on Wednesday from noon until 1 pm in the 
Singleton Room in Roberts Engineering 
Hall. Beverages and dessert will be pro
vided. RSVP by Friday to Pat Glass at 
paggie@cmu.edu or call x8-5630.
Sweepstakes, also known as Buggy, will 
be holding fall freeroll practices each Sat
urday and Sunday morning beginning Oc
tober 4 and ending November 16. Tech and 
Frew Streets, as well as the portion of 
Schenley Drive surrounding Flagstaff Hill, 
will be closed from 6 to 9 am on those morn
ings. Community members are asked to 
find alternate routes and parking around 
campus. Cars left in the metered areas at
6 am on those dates will be towed.
weinuHHHHHH
Pittsburgh Chamber Music Society will 
open its new season on October 27 with 
the Julliard String Quartet at Carnegie 
Music Hall. To order tickets, call 624-4129.
Folk Festival will take place on Friday 
through Sunday. Appalachian, Afro-Latin, 
sacred chants, Tex-Mex, Calypso, Jive 
Samba, English Music Hall, and many 
more types of music will be celebrated on 
the Friday and Saturday concerts at 7:30 
pm at the First Unitarian Church. On Sat
urday, workshops for those of all ages will
