Inside
Calendar........................................................L14Classified................................10
Comics..............................................................L6
Diversions.........................................................L9
Forum.................................................................6
Living................................................................L1
Sports...............................................................14
Living
International Festival recap
 see page LI
Sports
Football earns two big 
wins  see page 14
Forum
Lawyers, guns, and 
money  see page 7
I / ears o^1
THE TARTAN
Volume 90, Issue 7Carnegie Mellon Universitys Student Newspaper Since 190623 October 1995
Abu-Jamal lawyer 
coming to CMU
By ANGELA MOLLOY
Tartan Staffwriter
Noted defense attorney 
Leonard Weinglass will be on 
campus tomorrow, speaking to 
two English classes and giving 
public lecture at 7 pm in 
Doherty Hall 2210.
The talk is sponsored in part 
by the Political Speakers Fo
rum Board and the CMU chap
ter of the Western PA Commit
tee to Free Mumia Abu-Jamal.
Weinglass is currently de
fending death-row inmate 
Mumia Abu-Jamal, who was 
convicted in 1982 for the mur
der of a Philadelphia police of
ficer.
He has been touring the coun
try making speeches about the 
Abu-Jamal case to raise money 
for the defense. He has been 
working on the Abu-Jamal case 
since 1991 and has published a 
book about his work.
Previously, Weinglass was 
known for assisting in the de
fense of the student protestors 
known as the Chicago Seven, 
who were accused of inciting a 
riot at the Democratic National 
Convention in Chicago in 1968. 
He also defended Daniel 
Ellsberg in the Pentagon Pa
pers case.
Abu-Jamals case has at
tracted world-wide media at
tention and inspired a grassroots movement to earn his re
lease [Students, faculty orga
nize to free death-row inmate, 
9/25].
The movement to free AbuJamal has grown rapidly in 
Pennsylvania and has attracted 
people for different reasons. 
There is a lot of across the 
board appeal to people with dif
ferent political beliefs, said 
adjunct professor Jim 
Davidson.
Several different elements 
add to the controversy sur
rounding the case. The quality 
of the evidence and the motives 
of the Philadelphia police have 
been questioned. Abu-Jamals 
sentence has also attracted op
ponents of the death penalty, 
Jamila Levi, coordinator of 
the Western PA Committee, 
said that people who hadnt 
thought about these issues be
fore are starting to now. 
English professor David 
Demarest, one of the leaders of 
the CMU chapter, said that it 
was the first chapter at a col
lege campus.
There was a pretty good 
show of interest from people on 
this campus all summer long, 
said Demarest.
[Weinglass] wants to make 
the case as well known as he 
can, said Davidson. Public 
opinion does have an effect on 
Please see WEINGLASS, page 3
Jackson: Police lack credibility
Civil rights leader, local officials call for investigation
By JASON TOGYER
Tartan News Editor
Civil rights leader Rev. Jesse Jackson was scheduled 
to come to Oakland Friday to speak on behalf of a new 
scholarship fund. The death of an African-American 
businessman during a traffic stop by suburban police 
changed the focus of his visit dramatically.
At a press conference held at the Pittsburgh Board 
of Public Education on Bellefield Avenue, Jackson 
joined local elected officials in calling for a federal 
investigation of the incident.
When police with guns and badges kill civilians, 
that is state-sponsored terrorism, said Jackson.
Somebody killed that man. Those who know who 
must face the criminal justice process. That is the way 
to restore confidence in the system.
Jonny Gammage, 31, a cousin and business partner 
of Pittsburgh Steelers lineman Ray Seals, was driving 
Seals late model Jaguar on Route 51 in the South 
Hills suburb of Brentwood early on the morning of 
October 12. Brentwood police Lt. Milton Mulholland 
reported that Gammage was driving erratically and 
attempted to pull Gammage over.
When Gammage failed to stop, Mulholland radioed 
for backup, and officers from Baldwin and Whitehall 
Boroughs responded.
Gammage finally stopped in the Pittsburgh 
neighborhood of Overbrook. According to police 
accounts, during an altercation with Mulholland, a 
Baldwin officer pushed Gammage to the ground with 
his baton, then knelt on Gammages back near his 
shoulders and neck.
Gammage stopped breathing, and paramedics were 
called in to revive him. Attempts at resuscitation were 
unsuccessful, and Gammage was pronounced dead at 
Mercy Hospital in Pittsburgh.
Acting Allegheny County Coroner F. James Gregris ruled that 
Gammage died from compression to the neck and upper chest, an 
injury normally associated with suffocation or strangulation.
Pittsburgh police are investigating the death because it occurred
Faculty, CMU reach impasse on bboards
By JASON TOGYER
Tartan News Editor
Faculty Senate and the Universitys 
administration seem to have reached an 
impasse on the Andrew newsgroup cen
sorship controversy.
As far as Im concerned, we have 
arrived as far as were going on this, 
said Senate chair Teddy Seidenfeld. 
Last year, the University attempted 
to remove all newsgroups, or bboards, 
in the alt.sex.*, rec.arts:erotica.*, and 
alt.binaries.pictures.erotica.* hierar
chies from the Andrew computer sys
tem.
The move came after then-ECE senior 
Martin Rimm presented a draft of a 
'eport on pornography to the Univer
sity. He suggested that carrying the 
pewsgroups could leave CMU open to 
'bscenity prosecution.
The administrations decision met with 
leavy criticism from the CMU commuuty and free speech advocates. A com
mittee headed by Associate Provost 
Srwin Steinberg eventually recom
mended that the University restrict ac
cess to just six newsgroups containing 
Primarily pictures.
In an attempt to preserve access to all 
rf the newsgroups, Faculty Senate de
cided to act on a recommendation from 
;he American Civil Liberties Union that 
;he Andrew system be placed under the 
auspices of the library. At its September 
L9 meeting, the Senate recommended 
-hat the University consider the so-called 
library option [Faculty Senate wants 
lewsgroups kept on-line, 9/18].
But on September 22, the librarys 
,rofessional council said that it opposed 
signing the administration of 
lewsgroups to the libraries. The antouncement triggered a petition from 
he Coalition for Academic Freedom of 
Expression (CAFE), signed by 43 stu
dents, faculty members, and staff 
members, asking the librarians to re
consider their decision.
However, Seidenfeld said that the 
Universitys legal counsel has said 
that placing the bboards under the 
library would not help CMU avoid 
possible prosecution for obscenity.
He advises against all options I 
have identified for him, said 
Seidenfeld. It seems to me now that 
the library option is not something 
that the administration will enter
tain, and that there also is opposition 
from the library staff.
The University attorney may be an 
expert in contract disputes, but hes 
not an expert in First Amendment 
issues, said Dave Touretzky, a senior 
researcher for the computer science 
department and an outspoken critic of 
the proposed censorship. The library 
option is merely a fig leaf that was 
offered to the University so that they 
could give a plausible explanation for 
why they were renouncing their pre
vious censorship action.
This faculty can take a position 
against censorship, or we can accede 
to the administrations censorship. The 
library options rising or falling, suc
cess or failure, should not determine 
the direction the faculty takes on the 
censorship issue, he said.
Reference Librarian John Tofanelli 
responded to the criticism leveled at 
the University Libraries by CAFE. 
There was a straw vote taken at a 
meeting on September 22 just to sur
vey the current state of opinion among 
librarians  thats all that it was  
and Im very bothered by the fact that 
this is viewed as any kind of final and 
binding representation of librarians, 
said Tofanelli.
University Librarian Charles Lowry 
Please see BBOARDS, page 5
All photos this page: Andrew McDermott/Tartan Photo Editor 
Rev. Jesse Jackson called the death of Jonny Gammage, 31, an act of statesponsored terrorism. He asked for greater police accountability.
within city limits, and the FBI has been called in to see if the officers, 
who were white, violated Gammages civil rights.
There must be a sense of urgency in this matter. It cannot be
Please see JACKSON, page 5
Police talk jumper off local bridge
By ERIC SALZMAN
Tartan Diversions Editor
Pittsburgh Police and several pedestrians averted a 
tragedy Saturday as they talked a potential suicide out of 
jumping from the Forbes Avenue bridge over Panther 
Hollow.
The jumper, a University of Pittsburgh graduate stu
dent, stepped out onto the bridge railing at approximately 
4:30 pm. According to Carnegie Mellon police officers at 
the scene, witnesses said the man was walking along 
when he climbed over the small chain-link fence that 
lines the side of the bridge.
The man, whose name was not released, stayed on the 
railing for over four hours until he was finally helped to 
safety. He threatened several times to jump, putting his 
hands in his pockets and turning away from police and 
civilian negotiators.
At one point, he was handed a cellular telephone, 
although witnesses were unclear who the man called.
The narrowly-avoided tragedy came as both the CMU 
and Pitt campuses were crowded with out-of-town visiPlease see BRIDGE, page 3
Pittsburgh and CMU police and passersby attempt to talk a Pitt 
graduate student out of jumping from the Forbes Avenue bridge.
CFA professor dies of hemorrhage
By LAUREN HEINZ
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
CMU professor emeritus Howard 
Saalman, an internationally renowned 
architectural historian, died Thursday 
night of a cerebral hemorrhage at his 
home in Squirrel Hill. He was 67.
An expert on the Italian Renaissance, 
Saalman had been a member of the 
architecture faculty since 1958 and was 
the Andrew Mellon professor of archi
tecture until retiring last year because 
of health problems.
Howard was one of the most distin
guished professors in the country, said 
Vivian Loftness, head of the architec
ture department. His recent book on 
[Filippo] Brunelleschi [a Renaissance 
Architect] received rave reviews ... he 
was a wonderful colleague.
In addition to his work at CMU, 
Saalman lectured widely and was a vis
iting professor at universities in Heidel
berg, Berlin, Bonn, Vienna and Jerusa
lem, as well as at Harvard, Columbia 
and Rice.
At the time of his death, he was work
ing on a book about the buildings of 
Renaissance architect and painter Leon 
Battista Alberti.
He knew everything about architec
ture  every single detail  and yet it 
seemed that he knew more, said Moneet 
Singh, a 1994 graduate of the depart
ment and a!' CFA masters student. He 
was exuberant in class, and the Italian 
Renaissance  that brought him to life. 
Howard was one of the characters that 
made the architecture department so 
interesting.
Yen Ha, fifth year architect, said 
Saalman came to visit students often 
after his retirement just to be around 
us.
He was the only history professor Ill
remember from school, said Ha. He 
had a lot of passion for what he knew 
and a passion for teaching it.
Bom in Stettin, Germany in 1928, 
Saalman came to the United States at 
the age of 10 with his parents and twin 
brother to escape Nazi persecution. He 
grew up in New Yorks Upper West Side 
and attended the universitys Institute 
of Fine Arts there.
He is survived by his wife Jeanne, 
their daughter, Daphne Saalman 
Kalaidjian of Newport, R.I., and his 
brother, Peter Robert Saalman of Bos
ton. Funeral services were held Sunday 
in Pittsburgh. He will be buried Tues
day in Beth Olam Cemetary, 
Middletown, R.I.
Saalmans family has suggested that 
memorial contributions be made to the 
American Heart Association or the Li
brary Fund of Villa I Tatti of Harvard 
University in Florence, Italy.

---------------------------------------------------

1The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  23 October 1995
At Hyde Park summit...Yeltsin will take hard line
MOSCOW, Oct. 23 (DJ)Implying 
tough bargaining ahead in todays sum
mit with President Clinton, Russias 
President Boris Yeltsin said he has 
decided to fire his foreign minister, 
Andrei Kozyrev, who is widely seen as 
pro-Western.
But Yeltsin said he wont dismiss 
Kozyrev until he finds a worthy re
placement. He has tried hard. So let 
us not squash him. Let him work, 
said Yeltsin last week.
Yeltsin is attempting to distance his 
administration from a vague foreign 
policy that has given little joy at home, 
and gotten only patronizing respect 
abroad, before Decembers parliamen
tary elections.
Its also emblematic of the pulled 
punches in recent U.S.-Russian spar
ring over a number of serious dis
agreements now dominating the 
agenda for the summit. These center 
on Russias role in a potential peace 
deal in Bosnia; Russias objections to a 
U.S.-backed push for expansion of the 
North Atlantic Treaty Organization 
into-Eastern Europe; and U.S. pro
tests over Russias sale of nuclear re
actors to Iran.
The summit, to be held at Franklin 
Delano Roosevelts boyhood home in 
Hyde Park, N.Y., is not likely to yield 
any solid compromises on any of these 
issues. Instead, government officials 
on both sides are hoping the old Billand-Boris relationship will smooth the 
frictions long enough for tolerable so
lutions to be hammered out. A lot will 
depend on the personalities of the two 
presidents, says Sergei Medvedev, 
Yeltsins spokesman.
To help the medicine go down, U.S. 
Deputy Secretary of State Strobe 
Talbott met with Russian officials in 
Moscow Tuesday and Wednesday, part 
of a strategy of heavy dialogue to per
suade Russia that a bigger NATO wont 
be a threat.
We think that its very important 
for Russia to be involved in the next 
phase of the search for peace in Bosnia, 
he said, adding, This is an ongoing 
issue.
In a more upbeat sign of unity the 
two leaders are expected at Mondays 
summit to unveil a new cooperative 
program to ensure the security of Rus-' 
sian nuclear materials. An even big
ger^ political boon for Yeltsin is 
Washingtons willingness to redraw 
the maps for the Conventional Forces 
in Europe treaty to allow Russia to 
keep more troops along its southern 
flank, most notably in breakaway 
Chechnya.
For Clinton, the satisfaction may be 
little more than the chance to show 
the world that America and Russia 
are still looking for friendly ways to 
agree to disagree. Yeltsin reiterated 
yesterday that he sees no need to can
cel reactor sales to Iran. He also un
derscored his opposition to NATO ex
pansion, but outlined no specific plan 
to stop it.
Fuji face-off no Kodak moment
TOKYO, Oct. 20 (DJ)  During his 
first visit to Japan since his company 
brought a trade complaint against com
petitor Fuji Photo, Eastman Kodak 
Chairman George M.C. Fisher said 
the action could hurt sales in Japan. 
It is absolutely possible that there 
could be some negatives from the 
strength with which were asserting 
our case, Fisher said. I just 
hope people can get beyond 
that and understand the fun
damental principles in
volved.
But analysts say Kodaks 
strategies, in spite of nega
tive publicity, could help crack the 
Japanese market and even its case 
through government channels. It could 
raise Kodaks name recognition in Ja
pan but antagonize customers at the 
same time.
Kodak this month began selling film 
in Japan at half its previous price, and
companys name on its film boxes: that 
of a leading retail chain where the film 
will be sold.
Kodak asked the U.S. government 
in May to investigate Fuji for price 
fixing, unfair distribution tie-ups and 
other practices it said keeps it out of 
the Japanese market. Fisher said that 
because Fuji controls film distribution 
in Japan, Kodak is available 
in only 15 percent of Japa
nese retail outlets, while Fuji 
film is available in most of 
the U.S.
Fuji has countered that 
Kodak uses anticompetitive 
practices in the U.S., where it has 70 
percent of the market, to about 12 
percent for Fuji.
Kodak claims Fujis practices cause 
film to cost much more in Japan than 
elsewhere, allowing it to build a war 
chest to compete in other countries, 
and said film in Japan costs three
for the first time put anothers times more than in the U.S.
  
Toy rocket clears 
neighborhood
LEVEL PLAINS, Ala., Oct. 17 (DJ)  
A small rocket that hit a shed last week, 
prompting the evacuation of nearby 
homes, was just a toy bearing an Air 
Force decal, Army officials said.
The projectile was a hobby rocket 
and posed no danger, said Rich 
McDowell, a spokesman for Fort 
Benning, Ga., which sent a bomb squad 
to investigate.
Police were investigating the rockets 
origin.
The rocket was found lodged in the 
roof of a storage shed outside a house. 
The family to whom the shed belongs 
found the object at about 6 a.m. when 
they went to investigate a loud crash, 
police Lt. Ralph Reed said.
Reed initially described the object as a 
live, 18-inch-long missile.
The white projectile, cylindrical with 
fins and a U.S. Air Force decal, was 
about that long, but not live, according 
Steve Eisenhardt, a spokesman for Fort 
Rucker, a nearby Army flight training 
base.
A one-block area was evacuated for 
about four hours while investigators 
checked out the rocket.
GOP wont try to 
override veto
SACRAMENTO, Calif., Oct. 20 (DJ)
 House Speaker Newt Gingrich said 
Republicans arent likely to try to over
ride President Clintons promised veto 
of a bill to cut Medicare spending by 
$270 billion over seven years.
We have no intention of overriding 
the presidents veto, Gingrich told re
porters following a GOP fund-raiser.
We know the number of votes it takes 
to override a veto. If we started out last 
fall with a veto threat, wed have had to 
have a totally different approach, he 
said.
Last week, the Republican-controlled 
House voted 231201 to make sweeping 
changes in the government health care 
program that serves some 37 million 
elderly and disabled people.
The vote was part of a budget show
down between the GOP-controlled Con
gress and the Democratic president over 
budget cuts.
Clinton said following the vote that he 
would veto the proposal if it reached his 
desk. An override would require twothirds votes in both houses.
The Medicare provision still must be 
approved as part of a larger budget rec
onciliation bill.
A Senate vote is expected next week 
on the issue, then a two-house confer
ence committee will work out differ
ences between the two versions.
Our belief is that the president, in the 
end, is going to sign the bill. You notice 
yesterday he said that the seven-year
balanced budgetwill be doable, Gingrich 
said.
Gingrich said critics of the Republican 
budget programs have lied about the 
GOPs goals;
This is not a cut in Medicare, Gingrich 
said, calling it a reduction in expected 
growth of spending.
It is a lie to talk about cuts in Medi
care and it is frankly difficult to have a 
rational discussion with 85- and 75-yearold people who have watched 30-second 
ads, run often by the government em
ployee unions, that are deliberate lies 
designed to scare senior citizens, 
Gingrich said.
Earlier Friday, Clinton said in Colum
bus, Ohio, that our most fragile elderly 
people will be hurt the most by the 
potential Medicare cuts.
Boeing, union 
meet with NLRB
SEATTLE, Oct. 20 (DJ)  Interna
tional Machinists Union officials met 
with the regional director of the Na
tional Labor Relations Board (NLRB) 
today to discuss Boeings bargaining tac
tics, which the union claims sparked the 
two-week-old strike with Boeing.
In a press release, the International 
Machinists Union said, The unfair la
bor practice charges weve brought 
against Boeing are quite serious. Boeing 
refused to provide inform ation the union 
needed and requested on health insur
ance costs andjob subcontracting. Boeing 
also demanded a complete restructur
ing of its health benefits plan during the 
final week of negotiations  so late that 
it utterly disrupted the talks.
The union submitted another round of 
written requests to Boeing for informa
tion on health insurance costs and sub
contracting. The union also filed copies 
of the requests with the NLRB.
We understand that the Labor Board 
considers the charges against Boeing to 
be a high priority item, the union said.
WE-CBS merger 
vote scheduled
NEW YORK, Oct. 20 (DJ) CBS Inc. 
scheduled a special meeting of share
holders for November 16 to vote on the 
proposed merger agreement between 
CBS and Westinghouse Electric.
In a.press release, CBS said its board 
has fixed October 6 as the record date for 
shareholders entitled to vote at the spe
cial meeting. The board unanimously 
recommends that shareholders vote for 
approval and adoption of the $5.4 billion 
merger and the merger agreement.
The company said the definitive proxy 
statement describing the merger agree
ment was filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission today and is be
ing mailed to CBS shareholders.
CBS has been in the bottom of the 
network ratings race, and its new fall
seasonis performingbelow expectations. 
The companys earnings are expected to 
be considerably lower than Wall Street 
projections for 1995, according to the 
proxy statement.
CBS disclosed that it told 
Westinghouse in July that it expected 
income from continuing operations of 
$2.64 a common share. According to 
First Call consensus of analysts, Wall 
Street was projecting $2.98 a share for 
the year.
We remain very comfortable with our 
financial assumptions and we believe 
that our own financial models are con
sistent with the networks performance 
to date, said a Westinghouse spokes
person.
According to the proxy statement, sev
eral CBS executives will benefit hand
somely. CBS Chairman Laurence Tish, 
the companys largest stockholder, will 
receive about $12.7 million as part of the 
deal. Peter Lund, chairman of the CBS 
broadcast group, will receive about $3.3 
million. Leslie Moonves, president of 
CBS Entertainment, will get a payment 
of $5 million, which his contract calls for 
if CBS changes hands.
Telecom ad irks 
GOP leaders
WASHINGTON, D.C., Oct. 20 (DJ)- 
A leading Senate Republican wants a 
coalition of long-distance telephone com
panies to pull radio and television spots 
critical of pending telecommunications 
legislation. Sen. Larry Pressler (R-S.D.) 
Friday called the commercials mislead
ing and said they misconstrued the 
intent of the... legislation and its poten
tial impact on the general public.
Cable News Network has refused to 
air the ads because owner Ted Turner 
supports the legislation. A spokesman 
said that running the ad would be a 
conflict of interest.
The Competitive Long-Distance Coali
tion Thursday announced plans for the 
media campaign, which urges consum
ers to Tell Congress no thanks to the 
expensive telecommunications bills.5 
The commercials say the legislation 
would make consumers pay billions of 
dollars too much for local telephone 
cable-television services.
Pressler said representatives of AT&T 
Corp., including Chairman and Chief 
Executive Robert Allen, met with him 
yesterday to discuss concerns about the 
legislation. I questioned whether such 
negative advertising contributes to the 
publics understanding of these matters, 
and further suggested that the ads con
fuse rather than clarify the complex is
sues involved in this legislation, Pressler 
said. I stand by the statements I made 
to Mr. Allen and urge that these mis
leading ads be withdrawn.
AT&T said the legislation lacks bal
ance and, if it were to become law, would 
stifle competition and lead to higher 
prices for communications services.
Pour-Day Forecast
MondayPartly sunny and 
wanner, with increas
ing cloudiness by 
evening. High 75, low 
55.
TuesdayCooler and wet; 40 
percent chance of 
rain by nightfall. High 
65; low in upper 40s.
Wednesday
Sunny and season
ably cool. High 63, 
low 43.
Thursday
Partly cloudy. Low 
40, high 60.
Carnegie Almanac
From National Weather Service bulletins and other sources
50 YEARS AGO, October 16, 
1945: For the second week, a vo
cabulary battle raged on the Car
negie Tech campus.
It seems that with the tearing 
down the old Skibo and the estab
lishment of the new comes an 
announcement that the farmer 
pronunciation of the name should 
be changed, reported The Car
negie Tartan.
Thus the old Skibo (Skybo) 
becomes the new Skibo (Skeebo). 
It seems that the name taken 
from Andrew Carnegies castle in 
Sutherlandshire, Scotland was 
originally [pronounced] Skeebo, 
wrote a Tartan staffer. The Tar
tan chalked up the verbal flub to 
phonetic laziness on the part of 
Tech students. As a major post
war project looms the changing of 
the old pronunciation to go with 
the new eating place, concluded 
the writer.
25 YEARS AGO, October 23, 
1968: Under the headline, CMU will get a student union yet, 
Tartan staffwriter Susan Jacobi 
wrote that the adminstration was 
attempted to revamp Skibo (pro
nounced, Skeebo).
Skibo is not a Student Union, 
Jacobi wrote. But it will be some
day. Robert McCurdy, Manager 
of the Campus Activities Center, 
is working very hard to see that it 
will.
We will have to wait a few 
years for a new building to be 
built, she wrote (24, as it turned 
out). In the meantime, however, 
changes are being made to make 
Skibo a little less intimidating.
Among the changes were the 
redecoration of several rooms and 
a new set of concrete patio furni
ture, which was disliked by 
McCurdy and many students.
10 YEARS AGO, October 22, 
1985: If its October, it must be
time for buggy freerolls.
What, you may ask, in the 
world would bring a group of col
lege students out of their beds, or 
away from their parties at five 
a.m. on a Saturday morning? 
Buggy!" wrote Mitchell Reichgut. 
The actual buggy race does not 
take place until Spring Carnival. 
However, a surprising amount of 
time and effort goes into the buggy 
event.
But not everyone was happy. 
To tell you the truth, aside from 
the radio-guys ... not too many of 
these people looked like they were 
in ecstasy, Reichgut wrote. In 
fact, most of them looked like 
auditions [sic] for a Dawn of the 
Dead remake.
FIVE YEARS AGO, October 
22,1990: From the Better Living 
Through Science Department 
came news of a CMU developed 
pizza-making robot. The voiceactivated robot was designed to 
help disabled people work more 
efficiently. The Pizzabot was 
able to ladle sauce onto a crust 
and add cheese and toppings. 
Most of the tasks in a pizza op
eration are amenable to robotic 
technology, said K.G. Englehardt, director of the Center for 
Human Service Robotics.
No word yet on a beer-pouring 
or television remote-control click
ing robot, yet.
Compiled by 
JASON TOGYEB
Tixe
Carnegie Tech Tartan
The Tartan will celebrate its 90th anniversary in 1996. The theme M 
the celebration is 90 years of excellence in print. Heres the pape' - 
1964 flag.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  23 October 19953
Faculty Senate rejects bboard compromise, reaches deadlock
BBOARDS, from page 1
said that unfortunate phrasing 
caused the September 22 memo 
to be viewed as a binding resolu
tion, when in reality, it was only 
intended to encapsulate opinn.
It was not posited as a resolu
tion to the group, and it was cer
tainly not put in a resolution 
form, said Lowry. He stressed 
that the library would help users
gamaccess to the banned inforxnation if they needed to. It is, in 
my view, the responsibility of the 
library to provide informational 
resources for support of classroom 
and research activity, he said. 
If we were asked by someone in, 
say, psychology, to help mount a 
study... of the six bulletin boards 
that have been removed from the 
servers here, we would do so.
Several attempts to compro
mise with the administration met 
with failure. One motion under 
consideration that would have 
revised the Senates original rec
ommendation to University Presi
dent Robert Mehrabian failed 4-
12-7.
Psychology professor Brian 
MacWhinney suggested that the
Senate-consider proposing that 
access to the bboards be limited 
to those who could provide a rea
son why they needed to look at 
them. Touretzky called the sug
gestion academic snobbery.
I dont see any reason to force 
them to go through some formal
framework to --------------------
access the mate
rial, said 
Touretzky.
MacWhinney 
said that his 
suggestion 
would help avoid 
a unilateral ban 
on the bboards e 
by the adminis
tration, and guarantee a mecha
nism for computer users to access 
them. I feel that its more posi
tive to have the possibility for 
people to use these things as long 
as theres a reasonable reason, 
he said.
In addition, Steinberg said that 
Carnegie Mellon students could 
still access the banned material 
using the World Wide Web.
Any CMU faculty member, 
staff member, or student, can 
access any bulletin board, using
the Andrew system, and using a 
CMU computer, said Steinberg. 
Theres a Web page that tells 
you how to do it.
But several people at the meet
ing pointed out that there was no 
policy in place protecting aca
demic freedom on the Web.
Seidenfeld said that the les
sons learned in the attempt to 
ban the bboards made that un
likely. He said members of the 
administration had told him that 
theyd like to roll the clock back.
I dont think that theyre look
ing to recreate the current prob----------------------- lem in anFaculty Senate chair Teddy Seidenfeld 
said that some members of the admin
istration told him they'd like to "roll 
the clock back. "
There is a page on a Carnegie 
Mellon Web server that accesses 
what people would consider por
nography, said Scott Safier, chair 
of Staff Council and a senior re
search programmer in the Robot
ics Institute. In the future, when 
the administration finds this site, 
when the administration asks 
people to do something about this 
site, then what? Is the adminis
tration going to say youre not 
allowed to publish something on 
the Web?
other guise, 
he said.
Touretzky 
offered ex
amples of a 
course being 
taught at MIT
_______________ that, in part,
............. examines the
CMU bboard 
ban, as evidence that the 
Universitys actions were setting 
an example for other universi
ties.
We are being watched by the 
world. We are a case study of how 
to do it wrong, he said. He pointed 
out that the Electronic Frontier 
Foundation has a section of its 
World Wide Web page devoted to 
the ongoing censorship activity 
at CMU.
What you do here will have a 
much bigger impact than six
bboards on the Andrew system, 
he said. The ill-fated attempts at 
compromise wererejectedlargely 
because their opponents feared 
that giving in to any sort of cen
sorship would constitute a tacit 
endorsement.
As with any compromise, you 
have to ask yourself, are we doing 
something that allows us to draw 
the line, or something that
greases the slides? Seidenfeld 
said. He called the compromise 
a reluctant move.
The large number of absten
tions on the vote to modify 
Senates recommendation to 
Mehrabian would seem to indi
cate that many senators arent 
sure what move the body should 
take next. No new actions on the 
censorship issue were proposed.
Amended harassment policy 
will be debated next month
Next month, Faculty Senate will debate proposed changes to 
the Universitys sexual harassment policy.
Last September, University President Robert Mehrabian 
released a new sexual harassment policy for the University. 
After concerns were raised by Faculty Senate, Mehrabian and 
Provost Paul Christiano asked that a committee be convened to 
revise the policy to bring it into conformance with other existing 
University policies' and procedures.
At Thursdays meeting, Juan Schaffer, associate dean of the 
mathematics department and head of the committee, presented 
the a draft of the report to the Senate. The revision addresses the 
role of supervisors in investigating and preventing sexual ha
rassment. In addition, it would create a committtee of investi
gation, composed, depending on the situation, of undergradu
ates, graduate students, faculty, and staff members.
Buying or selling? The best way to reach 
Carnegie Mellon is through an ad in...
THETARTAN
Carnegie Mellon Universitys Student Newspaper Since 1906
For more information, call 268-2111.
University Center .Space Allocation Board
The allocation process for student organization office 
and carrel space in the University Center and other campus 
facilities has begun.
On October 16, applications were placed in registered 
student organization mailboxes. If your organization did not 
receive an application, please pick up one from the Office of 
Student Activities (SC 211) or Office of Student Affairs (WH 
301).
Applications are due to the Office of Student Activities no 
later than Friday , November 3 at 5:00PM. NO EXTENSIONS 
WILL BE GRANTED. ANY APPLICATION RECEIVED AFTER 
THE DEADLINE IS NOT GUARANTEED TO BE REVIEWED.
All organizations wishing space need to apply, even if 
you believe your organization already has space. l\lo space in 
the University Center has been allocated.
Electrical Engineering, Computer Engineering, Computer Science, Mechanical Engineering
Imprint your ideas 
on the world
On campus interviews November 8th
There's a world of businesses with a myriad of printing manufacturing and office automation tools. Come join us 
needs, and Printronix is the company they turn to for inno- as we design, manufacture and market the fourth genervate solutions. If you're a high achiever with a BS/MS ation of our Line Matrix technology, 
degree in Electrical Engineering, Computer Engineering,
Computer Science, or Mechanical Engineering, we'll give We'd lik0 Yu t0 attend our '"to1 Session on the 
you the opportunity to advance : even'n9 November 7th to meet with
the state-of-the-art Printronix Engineers. You can also arrange
Int h~ an interview appointment through your
We've defined the leading  V, fj Campus Placement Office. Or send your
edge in printer technology for f ^ e resume to: Manager of Employment,
over 20 years, starting with * Printronix, 17500 Cartwright Rd., Dept CM,
the Line Matrix Printer. Today, I lrvino CA 92713. Fax: (714) 660-8882.
our technology spans non- ^ raaiolF E-mail: bilanchon bo@printronix.com
linear magnetics, high-speed : \ Equal Opportunity Employer,
mechanism dynamics, laser 
systems, graphic archiiectures, logic design, circuit 
design, ASIC/VLSI and software design.
Printronix teams are empowered to excel thanks to our PPI l\l"i 1
commitment to R&D and investment in advanced design, " 8 W I l\\/l \l I/V
If you are not sure if your organization will be affected by 
the allocation process, contact the Office of Student Activities 
(268-8704) immediately.
If you have any questions or concerns, contact the 
University Center Allocation Board (allocationboard@andrew.cmu.edu) or the Office of Student Activities.
funded by your Student Activities Fee.
Apartments Available in the 
Oakland and Shadyside Areas
Efficiency, 1, 2, and 3 Bedroom 
Furnished Apartments 
Laundry Facilities 
Wall to Wall Carpeting 
Security Building
H&P Real Estate 
682-1519
7am - 5pm  Monday thru Sunday

---------------------------------------------------

we arenot
a hyper-aggressive,
caFFeine-crazed company
that hammers
t h e competition and
drives its employees
to work crazy hours For
mediocre pizza.
the pizzas actually
quite good.
Microsoft
WHERE DC) YOU WANT TO GO TODAY?"
Microsoft Company Presentation 
Tuesday, October 24, 1995, 7-0Q-9:00pm 
Wean Hall, #7500 
Pizza! Software Raffle!
Come see us and bring your resume.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  23 October 19955
 CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY
metmu
Four miles liter, the 
chase ends i\ Over
brook, just mside 
Pittsburgh city Irfenits.
1:30 am: Chase/be
gins In Brentwoo'v
BRENTWOOD
COODerS CooPers & Lybrand L.L.R
&Lybrand a professional services firm
COMPUTER 
SCIENCE
ELECTRICAL 
AND COMPUTER 
ENGINEERING
INFORMATION 
AND DECISION 
SYSTEMS
At Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P. innovation results in opportunity. 
The ability of our Solutions Thru Technology Group to partner 
with clients throughout the entire project lifecycle continues to 
create exciting opportunities for individuals willing to go 
beyond convention.
INFORMATION SESSION
Thursday. October 26 
7:00 pm 
The Student Center 
Room 210
Abu -Jau mlbwyerceo mlbw ibwong
If you are unable to attend, please forward your resume to:
Matthew Perry, Manager, Professional Staffing, 399 Thornall Street, Fifth Floor, 
Edison, NJ 08837. Telephone (908) 906-6014.
An Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer M/F
Abu-Jamals attorney will speak at CMU
WEINGLASS, from page 1
the way court cases are 
handled.
Before his arrest in 1981, 
Abu-Jamal was an outspoken 
radio commentator and one
time president of the local chap
ter of the Association of Black 
Journalists.
He has remained outspoken 
during his time in prison. He 
wrote Line from Death Row in 
1991. But the.publicity goit 
more intense last year when 
National Public Radio con
tracted him to do a series of 
radio commentaries. Pressure 
from groups like the Fraternal 
Order of Police led NPR to can
cel the broadcasts.
Ironically, the outcry sparked 
more interest in the movement 
as people interested in free 
speech joined.
Because of the Internet  in 
particular the World Wide Web
 the information about AbuJamals has raised the curios
ity of people in foreign coun
tries. Many Europeans have be
come especially interested be
cause their countries donthave 
the death penalty.
The case is currently being 
appealed in the Pennsylvania 
Supreme Court. We fully ex
pect to take this all the way up 
to the top, said- Levi. The 
stakes are high and its not go
ing to be easy.
Jackson calls for police accountability
Suicide attempt averted
BRIDGE, from page 1
tors  Pitts for homecoming, CMUs for Parents Weekend and the 
International Festival.
Traffic was allowed to pass while bystanders attempted to coax 
him back onto the bridge. A city ambulance was standing by on 
Boundary Street below the bridge, and a CMU police officer there 
turned the curious away.
Corrections/Clarifications...
In last weeks Hockey club opens season with exhibition win 
over Stars, a quote was incorrectly. attributed. The. quote 
should have read:
Special teams really worked hard last night, said team 
captain Roger Maddalena. It was a good warm-up for the 
penalty killing units and the power play. They delivered.
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of 
such an error, please contact Tartan Editor-in-Chief Lauren 
Heinz at 268-2111.
JACKSON, from page 1
swept under the carpet, said 
Pittsburgh city councilwoman 
Valerie MacDonald. It is 
indicative of an urban crisis that 
must be addressed absolutely 
immediately.
MacDonald said that city 
council is asking the U.S. 
Attorney Generals office to 
launch a full investigation, and 
said that police need to be held 
accountable for their actions.
You cannot expect people to be 
held accountable ... when you 
dont enforce any degree of 
accountability in the police 
ranks, said MacDonald. We 
must have accountability, not 
only from our citizens, but from 
the people who enforce [the law]. 
State Representative Joseph 
Preston (D-East Liberty) called 
the incident a very dire concern. 
Is it not safe for anyone of a 
particular color to go anywhere 
in the suburbs? said Preston, 
who said that police judged 
Gammage based on the fact that 
he was an African-American in 
an expensive car. Those of us of 
color dont trust those people who 
are supposed to be protecting us, 
because in most cases, they cant 
police themselves.
Preston said that he felt 
Gammage didnt stop for 
Brentwood police because he was 
trying to get to the city of 
Pittsburghs jurisdiction. Brent
wood is a predominately white, 
middle-class suburb.
State Representative Bill 
Robinson reiterated his call 
earlier this year for a countywide civilian police review board. 
We need to have the police and 
the citizens working together, 
he said.
Robinson called the training, 
equipment, funding, and super
vision of suburban police 
departments inadequate. This 
issue is a regional issue, said 
Robinson. The number one issue 
must be the relationship between 
our county and city police forces 
and our residents.
Somebody must pay. Some
body must be held accountable. 
Im not going to prejudge those 
police officers, because I wasnt 
there, said Robinson. If there 
were officers or civilians engaging 
in illegal activities, they need to 
be prosecuted to the fullest extent 
of the law.... I believe that we do 
need a federal investigation in 
the Gammage situation.
Robinson said that the incident 
should be a wake-up call to the 
city of Pittsburgh. Dont let this 
happen in Pittsburgh, he said.
Jackson was in town to speak 
at several benefits on behalf of 
the John Preston Koon Endow
ment, a trust fund established 
for urban high school students in 
the Pittsburgh, Wilkinsburg, 
Clairton, McKeesport, Duquesne, 
and Woodland Hills school 
districts.
While Jackson did indirectly 
discuss the scholarship by 
addressing the problems that 
urban youths face in getting 
opportunities for high education 
and good-payingjobs, the primary 
focus of his remarks was race 
relations and the Gammage 
incident.
[Police] dont need more power, 
they need more credibility, said 
Jackson. They have not lost their 
guns, they have lost their trust, 
and thats their strongest 
weapon.
Jackson described how one of 
his sons was stopped by police 
while driving a new car and taken 
into custody for a minor traffic 
infraction. The officers were
black. This is a sick syndrome, 
said Jackson. This abuse of 
power is not limited to one race. 
He attributed some racial 
tension to race-baiting by 
politicians, and said that the 
United States is in a state of 
emergency in race relations.
Jackson said that American 
politicians need a renewed 
commitment to even the playing 
field for African-Americans.
From birth to earth, we stand 
in deeper holes, said Jackson, 
who cited the high rate of infant 
mortality and a. lack of blacks in 
positions of authority  like 
tenured professorships and 
corporate leadership  as proof.
Our hearts are heavy with the 
tragedy of Jonny Gammage, but 
the number one growth industry 
in our country in j ails. In virtually 
every city theres a new ball arena
Kenneth Kraemer/Tartan Managing Editor
and a new jail, and theres 
virtually no industry in between.
Between these two mountains, 
theres a canyon, and fierce winds 
blow in every canyon. We know 
that schools cost less than jails, 
but we have a negative urban 
policyremove the jobs, chastise 
the mothers, chase the fathers, 
and lock up the children, said 
Jackson. Three strikes and 
youre out is a morally bankrupt, 
brain dead solution. Why not a 
vision of four balls and youre in? 
he said, listing prenatal care, 
education, marketable skill, and 
a job as the four points of his plan.
Seals and Gammages families 
have retained private invest
igators and noted forensic 
pathologist Cyril Wecht to 
investigate Gammages death. A 
full coroners inquest has been 
scheduled for November 1. <
CHANGING THE WAY BUSINESSES DO BUSINESS
The, Pe-r^eaC Pizza'/
Oakland/Shadyside 
4643 Baum Blvd. 
(near North Craig)
Now hiring. 
Experienced pizza makers needed.682-7272
PAPA
I T
One 16" Extra 
Large One Topping
We accept VISA and MASTERCARD.
1----------------------T--------------------------------1
Two 14" Large I 10"0ne Topping I One 14" Large 
One Topping j & 2 Cokes | One Topping & An
I Order of Breadsticks 99
Additional toppings $1.00 each Not valid with any other coupon Valid only at participating storesL.
Additional loppings SI .00 eadi | (Mon.-TW*. 1 lon.-4pm 9pm.clos.| | Addifona| ; S1 00 Not valid wilh any other coupon Addihanal toppings $.70 each |y  hefMid only al participating stores I Not valid with any other coupon | y ^j Valid only at participating stores j / r r a

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Carnegie Mellon University23 October 1995
Computer store lacks 
efficient practices
Whens the last time you went 
to CMUs computer store and 
were satisfied with the service 
you received? For many students, 
a trip to the newly-expanded com
puter store in Cyert Hall is just 
an exercise in frustration. The 
computer store needs a more ef
ficient plan of operation that does 
not waste students time and ef
fort.
Until this summer, the com
puter store was located in the 
office space of what is now the 
Computing Services help center. 
The extremely small space show
cased a few Apple Macintosh 
computers, a handful of the ma
jor software titles, hardware 
items that numbered less than 
the software, and various other 
accessories such as mouse pads, 
wrist rests and decorated win
dow frames for your monitor.
Granted, the computer store 
made the best of the space avail
able to them but unless you knew 
exactly what you wanted, there 
was little ability to browse for a 
selection that suited your needs. 
Items not available on the shelves 
were placed in back rooms or in 
their storage rooms downstairs. 
The process of locating the avail
ability of a manual to a program 
on the CMU/Microsoft CD-ROM 
or the status of the new com
puter just ordered always seemed 
to take a long time as a sales 
person would first check their 
inventory book and then call 
downstairs for someone else to 
check if it was actually there or 
not.
The kicker was that if an item 
was out of stock (with the pos
sible exception of floppy disks) it 
usually didnt get reordered un
til someone specifically requested 
for it.
When the computer store fi
nally moved down the hall into a 
new and larger space, many 
thought some of the above prob
lems would have been alleviated. 
Unfortunately, very little has 
changed. Students still go to the 
computer store to see basically
the same items on display, but 
just a bit more spread out now; 
instead of one register counter, 
there are two, although the wait 
time in line to pay hasnt changed; 
a sales person can definitely be 
found on the sales floor (unlike 
before when they were confined 
to the areabehindthe sales desk) 
but sometimes the clerks play 
Spectre on a demo computer be
fore they help the customers.
Something needs to be done. 
We recommend that the Com
puter Store consider some of 
these suggestions to make their 
operations more efficient:
 Put your inventory com
pletely on-line so that its always 
accurate, available and up-todate. (With the inventory on-line, 
students could probably even 
check via a web page to see if an 
item is in stock or not.)
 Check inventory regularly 
and reorder before an item runs 
out. (With the inventory on-line 
you know when to reorder...)
 Streamline customer service. 
Have an express counter for 
people just purchasing off the 
shelf items, a counter for people 
purchasing ordered or pick-up 
items, and a counter specifically 
for people with questions.
 Carry more software titles or 
make special order products 
available faster than the current 
7-10 days. If not, then why should 
students wait that long when 
numerous mail order companies 
are willing to send the product 
overnight and still beat the com
puter store price?
 Lower the price of some items 
so that there is some incentive 
for purchasing at the CMU com
puter store. Just for example, 
why is it that it is actually 
cheaper to buy directly from 
DELL Computers without an 
educational discount than it is to 
get the same computer from the 
computer store?
 Better train your sales staff 
so that more of them know the 
details of the products the store 
sells.
5ms 6fASK\EHcCrt
Letters to the Editor
Transit services More lines mean 
unnecessary more parking
Letter to the Editor
International Festival 
takes campus abroad
Editor:
I disagree with The 
Tartans constant 
criticism of Carnegie 
Mellons transit ser
vices. As a third-year 
student who has been 
living off-campus for two years without 
a car, I am satisfied with publicly avail
able transit options. The university 
should not continue to finance its own 
shuttle and escort services, let alone 
begin to subsidize public transit for stu
dents.
If other students are displeased with 
the scope and frequency of Carnegie 
Mellons shuttle service, let them ride 
public transit. The only drawback lies in 
the Port Authoritys emphasis on eastwest over north-south service. However, 
students could ride 61-, 67-, or 71-series 
buses and walk a few blocks to their 
apartments. Given PATS low fares (onezone tickets cost $1.15 when purchased 
in books of 10), there is no need to subsi
dize these trips. Rather than continuing 
to operate its own shuttle and starting to 
subsidize rides on PAT, the university 
should return its transit funds to the 
students so that we can choose the pub
licly available services which best suit 
us. As a small institution, CMU will 
never be able to please everyone with its 
own shuttle bus program.
The escort service,,for the most part, 
improves students sense of safety. Why 
should this service always be free, 
though? Students who go out for fun and 
return home late at night could plan 
their outings around public transit sched
ules (key local bus routes are served 
every half hour until after 1:00 AM) or 
call a taxi.
Only students who must leave cam
pus late at night have a legitimate rea
son to use the escort service free of charge 
(of course, physically disabled students 
should have this right under any cir
cumstances).
We must remember that the services 
we request cost money.
In general, the university doesnt spend 
enough on student-related services. 
Duplicating or subsidizing public tran
sit and taxi service is still wasteful, 
though.
R. Paul Marcelin
Junior
Logic and Computation
I
Letter to the Editor
Editor:
There have been a lot 
of complaints lately 
about the state of park
ing on campus.
The most difficult 
question to answer has 
been Where are we supposed to find 
space for more parkins spots?
While looking for a parking spot today, 
five minutes before class, I realized that 
there would be over 33 percent more 
spots on campus if somebody would paint 
lines where the spots really are.
I saw enough extra space on Frew Street 
today to park about fifteen more cars. 
Unfortunately, it was all in half-car-increments between badly parked vehicles.
Eliott Conan Evans
Senior
English
Environment 
warrants concern
Editor:
If The Tartan is look
ing for a critique of en
vironmentalist view
points, Jon Orris out
dated and unexamined 
attacks leave much to 
be desired.
In a cover article in Environmental Sci
ence and Technology , Recycling Deci
sions and Green Design, the authors Lave, 
Hendrickson, and McMichael suggest 
three normative goals regarding two sepa
rate issues: natural resources and pollu
tion, a distinction Orris would do well to 
clarify in his column: minimize the use of 
non-renewable resources (e.g., petroleum), 
manage the use of renewable resources to 
a sustainable level (timber), and minimize 
the discharge of toxic substances (sulfur 
dioxide).
Any basic environmental economics 
course will reveal the long-standing recog
nition of the market failures that lead to 
economically inefficient pollution emis
sions and natural resource depletion.
Solutions to these problems have been 
offered, such as emissions trading pro
grams and emissions fees, in recent US 
environmental legislation.
These and other measures are being
Letter to the Editor
emulated abroad in an attempt to recon
cile environmental protection with de
centralized decision making and eco
nomic growth.
In addition, many companies are em
bracing proactive environmental strate
gies as a way to remain competitive and 
reduce costs.
The other differentiation with which 
Orris would do well to acquaint himself 
is that of premodern risks (e.g., infec
tious diseases in less developed societ
ies) versus modern risks (pollution in 
technologically dependent societies). If 
he thinks legislation like the Clean Water 
Act, the Clean Air Act, and Federal haz
ardous waste laws represent a disgust
ing hatred of human values (9/25/95), 
let him breathe the air of downtown 
Taipei and Bangkok, drink the water of 
the Rio Grande, visit the dumps of Ma
nila and Mexico City, visit Katowice, 
Poland, or what remains of the Aral Sea. 
True, technology may make us all rich 
and reduce human exposure to 
premodem risks, but the ecological costs 
of economic development cannot be i 
nored.
Orris concern for mosquitoes from 
protected wetlands is specious. He un
derestimates the value to man(10/9/ 
95) of the natural cleansing processes of 
wetlands.
Indeed, would his abhorrence of mos
quitoes justify logging to extinction the 
rain forests that have provided genetic 
material for many of the most widely 
prescribed pharmaceuticals in the US?
The 'takings issue raised in Orris 
second diatribe is certainly controver
sial. If carried out to the extreme advo
cated by anti-environment supporters 
of takings legislation, the public would 
subsidize individuals to pollute.
If a homeowner were to erect a petro
leum refinery in her backyard, surely 
her neighbors property values would 
drop.
Should takings legislation be enacted 
to compensate the neighbors losses?
A possible solution might broaden land 
use policy to include ecological consider
ations, a kind of zoning for non-use.
Hopefully, thoughtful consideration 
and debate will result in solutions that 
reconcile environmental protection with 
our entirely anthropocentric notions c 
private property.
further developed in various states and
Tse-Sung Wu 
PhD candidate 
EPP and Civ E
Whether it was Martin Yan, 
the Chinese Magic Revue, per
sonal journeys or Oopalies tra
ditional dance, this years Inter
national Festival was a definite 
success. We congratulate the stu
dent and faculty organizers who 
put in their time to create such a 
lively and rich celebrationyour 
hard work and extra-effort cer
tainly paid off.
Focusing on the continent of 
Asia, there were a myriad of cul
tures and countries for the Festi
val to highlight  everything 
from Nepal to Laos to the 
Phillipines. The information 
room in the Student Center was 
a great idea, as dozens of pam
phlets, maps and posters made it 
easy and interesting to see what 
cultures were being covered.
However, considering the true 
scope of the Festival, it may have 
been easier if the organizers had 
divided it into countries that were 
part of the Middle East and coun
tries that were more Asian, and 
then formed two separate festi
vals. While it is great to celebrate 
the diversity of such a broad area, 
splitting up Asia into two groups 
might have made it easier to fo
cus on some of the less-mentioned 
countries, and then saved one for 
next years festivities.
The thrust of the International 
Festival is to learn about various 
cultures and to try to broaden 
ones cultural horizons. Without 
a doubt that has been accom
plished by all those that partici
pated in the activities this week
end.
Overall, the International Fes
tival was a great opportunity for 
the community to learn about 
Asia and increase cultural aware
ness.
Next years theme focusing on 
South America and the Carib
bean sounds every bit as promis
ing. Please keep the spirit and 
quality at this high level.
Activist mourned by environmentalist
Matt Ball
We live in an ostensibly theist soci
ety. Nearly everyone professes a belief 
in some higher entity, and most of 
these people follow the teachings of 
some proclaimed prophet of this higher 
being.
I was raised to be a Catholic, to 
follow the teachings of Jesus.
Jesus said, Lay down what you are 
doing and follow me. If you read the 
New Testament (and just about any 
other religious text), it doesnt say, 
Pursue riches, status, and security, 
and follow me for an hour on Sunday 
when your BMW is not in the shop.
Glenn Grodin, long-time activist for 
social justice and co-founder/president 
of the animal rights organization Ani
mal Passion, died in his sleep earlier 
this month.
Like myself, he was an atheist - to 
the point where he could imagine eat
ing an animal (to survive) before he 
could believe in a god.
And yet there are few people who
have ever been a better example of the 
true message of the great religions. Glenn 
laid down his life and followed his heart, 
his love and compassion for all.
It has not fully sunk in that Glenn is 
gone. While I wake up sometimes at night 
in horror, we talked so often that I still 
expect to hear his voice on the answering 
machine.
I want to call him and say,  Jeesh, Glenn, 
this really crappy thing happened. And 
he would have cracked a joke.
On top of this sadness, I have a great 
feeling of loss and abandonment.
There are so few. truly honest and fully 
other-oriented compassionate, so few 
people who are able to examine every 
aspect of their lives and act according to 
what they find to be right, that to lose 
Glenn is to have my life irreparably al
tered.
What can I say in words, put down with 
ink on paper, that can capture even a 
small aspect of what Glenns life meant to 
me and to the world?
He was my best friend in Pittsburgh.
I have been involved in a number of 
other animal rights and environmental 
organizations, and can honestly say that 
Glenn was a very unique person.
There are few people who bother to find 
out about what goes on in the world out
side of their immediate surroundings, 
fewer still who act on this knowledge 
in their own life.
It is only the rarest gem who takes 
time from their life to work to change 
the world. Glenn took this progression 
a step further, taking not only time 
from his life, but offering his entire 
existence to change the world, to speak 
for the voiceless, to try to make the 
world a better place for all. !
It is not easy to be an animal rights 
activist, to say the least. In the face of 
such tremendous and overwhelming 
suffering, trying to fight such crush
ing indifference, the average length of 
an activist career is about eight 
months.
Glenn survived this for over a de
cade. He not only survived, but thrived 
and helped others to flourish. He did 
this with his compelling and unex
pected sense of humor, always ready 
with a joke and a laugh.
I count myself as lucky to have en
countered such a person.
Ball is a graduate student in the 
Engineering and Public Policy 
department.He welcomes any replies 
to his opinions.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  23 October 19957
THE TARTANFew funds leave students with few alternatives
A problem that I 
have to face semiregnlarly is what to 
do when my wallet is 
T_ empty. Actually, I
P have to face it quite
often. Since, my only 
real source of earned income is working at the E&S 
Library. Usually my money gets drained by eating and 
playing pinball and video games. I am cutting down, 
however. I eat only once a day now.
Inevitably the MAC machine will spit out a very 
callous little slip of paper saying YOU HAVE INSUFFI
CIENT FUNDS IN THIS ACCOUNT. HAVE A NICE 
pAY, YOU LOSER.  So after a few minutes of regret and 
resolve to keep from eating for the rest of the day, I 
have to think of something to do. Otherwise I end up 
sittingiri my room watching cheesy television. So here is 
what I usually end up doing, and if you, the reader, find 
yourself in a situation where you are bereft of funds, you 
can also partake in these activities yourself.
Hunt for spare change: In my room I have six places 
where spare change ends up: on the windowsill, on top of 
my refrigerator, on top of my computer, on my desk, on 
top of my dresser, and the floor. Maybe you have similar 
places where change finds its way. If you have a couch in 
your room, this activity becomes all the more fun, be
cause you can always find at least sixty-three cents in 
the cushions if you look hard enough. Its a universal law 
for couches.
Clean your room: My side of the room sure needs to be 
cleaned every so often. Plus, I get the urge to clean every 
once in a while and it will not abate unless Ive made 
substantial progress in doing so. Sometimes when I 
clean I find a forgotten stash of spare change. When I 
find enough, change, I usually go downstairs and get 
some pop or junk food, because Im starving since I only 
eat once during the day.
Do your homework: Ive actually gotten a lot of my 
work done this way. Youd be amazed at how the time 
flies when youre reading the big-ass packet that youve 
put off reading because its so big-ass. Its also good if 
your work involves computer stuff because its free also, 
especially on Saturday mornings when everyone is ei
ther sleeping in or watching The Tick.
Get a lawn chair and sit out next to the University 
Center construction site on a weekday afternoon. Have 
a glass of lemonade and sunglasses if possible: This is 
very therapeutic, but youd also have to watch out for 
verbal abuse plus the odd flying brick heading your way.
Take a walk: The health benefits of walking are too 
numerous to mention here, but these might be out
weighed by the quality of Pittsburghs air. Since I have 
to lose weight (Im almost at 200), Im starting to do this
often. Going to the gym fits in this category also, but I 
look out of place in there, since I dont own anything 
made of spandex.
Snuggle with your significant other: Unfortunately, I 
cant do this since all the girls Ive ever wanted to go out 
with already has a significant other. Phooey. Not that 
Im jealous or anything.... But for anyone that does have 
a significant other, go ahead. You have my blessing. As 
for me, I either have bad luck or good taste in women.
Look for forgotten non-perishable food in your room: I 
still have a few packets of Lipton Cup-O-Soup from my 
freshman year.
Lipton Cup-O-Soup was probably developed during 
the Cold War to put in bomb shelters all over the world. 
This stuff does not age or spoil. So whenever I have no 
money for my one meal a day I always whip one of these 
out. These are a must have for any college student.
Sleep: Everybody complains about sleeping habits. 
Well, if you have no money to do anything else with, 
whats stopping you? If you have forgotten what sleep is, 
Ill give you a brief rendition.
Usually you lie down and close your eyes, your breath
ing rate slows down, and you relax. It doesnt seem like 
much, but when you wake up after sleeping, and there 
are no classes to go to, its very refreshing.
Tom Harper needs some sleep.Gun-control laws lack logic, fail to curb violence
James Stepanek
Recently Ive heard about a 
rather disturbing, yet character
istic abuse of power by members 
of the Clinton administration. It 
appears that the Department of 
Justice, under orders of Janet 
Reno, has commissioned a project 
here at CMU which violates a 
number of state and federal laws.
Whats the project, you ask? 
Its a computerized gun tracking 
and registration system, which 
by both federal and Pennsylva
nia law, is illegal. The program 
was designed to keep track of all 
gun transactions via the BATF 
form that all gun purchasers fill 
out (a computer database track
ing these is specifically prohib
ited by federal law), a list of all 
people who are granted concealed 
carry permits (these records are 
to be destroyed under Pennsylva
nia law), arid a master list of local 
gun dealers (already done by the 
BATF). Mind you, these laws
which are being violated have 
not been repealed or supple
mented: this is simply an out
right illegal act.
In spite of the fact that neither 
CMU nor the Department of Jus
tice seems to know this fact, it 
was apparent to the Allegheny 
County Sheriffs office. When 
people from CMU and the City of 
Pittsburgh Computing services 
went down to the Sheriffs office, 
their request for the relevant in
formation was denied. They pro
tested that they were under di
rect order of Janet Reno, but this 
availed them naught. Its good to 
see that some law enforcement 
officials actually do uphold the 
law, even if its only the local 
ones.
This act is quite typical of the 
Clinton Administration. They 
tend to simply ignore laws which 
inconvenience them. A case in 
point was the closed meetings on 
the subject of health care reform. 
These were manifestly illegal, and 
it required a federal judge to make 
them open; The gun registration 
case is also very Clintonesque in 
that the administration covered 
it up. Attempts to find out any 
details of the project required a
Freedom of Information Act re
quest by the office of Senator 
Santorum, and even then they 
took their time about it.
I know many out there will ask 
Whats wrong with keeping track 
of guns? They cause lots of trouble, 
dont they? Well thats not wholly 
the point. For one thing, guns are 
inanimate objects.
Inanimate objects have yet to 
cause trouble in my experience; 
they tend to require an active 
user for anything to happen. 
Given the fact that most crime is 
committed by repeat offenders, 
maybe a database of local ex-cons 
would be more useful.
Aside from even these points, 
there is the simple fact that while 
gun registration sounds good to 
some, it is utterly useless.
One really just has to give it a 
bit of thought. Who are we con
cerned about?
The average gun owner? I doubt
it.
Given that there are over 50 
million households with guns in' 
them in this country, and there 
isnt a total bloodbath raging out 
there, you cant assume that most 
gun owners are trouble. Actu
ally, most studies have shown
that almost all crime is done by 
career criminals. These folks are 
already prohibited by law from 
purchasing a gun, so registration 
isnt likely to have much effect. 
Surveys of prison inmates con
victed of crimes involving guns 
have shown that under 10 per
cent of these crimes were com
mitted with guns purchased le
gally. Most of the guns employed 
by criminals are either bought on 
the street or stolen. Registration 
would have no effect on either 
case.
Of course there will be those 
who say that preventing 10 per
cent of crimes is enough reason 
for registration.
This is both foolish and scary. 
Its foolish because it makes the 
assumption that a criminal would 
not change his method of acquisi
tion in the face of the change, and 
scary because it disregards the 
fact that registration has only 
been employed effectively in the 
past to confiscate the guns of le
gal owners, never to control crime. 
Only a few places in this country 
have implemented gun registra
tion.
In all of these cases, it was later 
followed by attempts at confis
cating those guns.- New York City 
and Chicago both passed gun reg
istration schemes, and when the 
law shifted a little in the future 
these registration lists were used 
to confiscate the property of lawabiding citizens. This was also 
attempted in California, after reg
istration was implemented, but 
citizen outrage prevented it.
Registration is just a tool which 
will enable the government to 
disarm the citizens.
Thats all its ever been. Crimi
nals will scoff at it, as they scoff 
at laws in general.
Id like to remind you all that in 
spite of the best efforts of statists 
(right and left wing) for the past 
50 years or so, we still have a Bill 
of Rights.
The second of the entries in 
that codicil does state A well 
regulated militia, being necessary 
to the security of a free state, the 
right of the people to keep and 
bear arms shall not be infringed.  
Silly me, I thought shall not be 
infringed was pretty straight
forward.
James Stepanek is a gradutate 
student in MSE. He welcomes any 
responses to his opinions.Sense of self rooted in need for internal examination
Editors Notebook
When you 
look into the 
mirror, you 
visually 
sense an 
image that 
physically 
represents
yourperson. However, the essence of the self does not lay 
in the physical appearance of the individual.
The self is the minds make up of the individual. It is 
what makes a person funny or serious, interesting or 
boring, daring or cautious.
Some people believe that the self has an essence which 
with enough study, meditation, or therapy, can be fully 
understood for the sake of providing guidance to all 
future actions. I suggest that instead, the self is everdeveloping, requiring an ever-developing sense of un
derstanding.
Yet if the self is always changing, can a jierson actually 
be true to his own self?
Perhaps the question is unanswerable because it does 
not properly apply to the circumstances. Maybe a person 
can only be true to the nature of the self, which may 
develop, but at least stays on the same course.
To be true to your own nature requires an understand
ing of what that nature is and a desire to be genuine.
The first part is beyond me  I do not know if it is 
possible to ever truly grasp your own nature, self, or a 
part of either.
But if you think that you can, then the second part is 
just a decision.
Do you, do I, does anyone wish to be true their selves? 
Work can eliminate the need to make such a decision.
To lose yourself in your work, to be so busy that there 
is not enough time to have any self other than the one 
which works, is an easy way to avoid the question. 
Alcohol is another vice, social structures are another  
any vice can serve as an individuals crutch to replace the 
need to deal with himself.
To rely on such a vice will provide an easier existence, 
but at the same time, that existence will be empty.
If there is no self to the physical image in the mirror, 
what point is there to the images existence. What sort of 
genuine happiness can be achieved by a person who does 
not know himself, who is not true to himself? Perhaps a 
superficial and temporary happiness can be obtained. 
Indeed, that sort of happiness may be sufficient until 
death for many individuals  it certainly can get you 
through many a moment.
Is it all you, I, or anyone needs? I am not sure. If the next 
time you look in the mirror and say to yourself who is 
that person? try to find an answer.
Finding an answer to that first question should not be 
too hard.
Then ask why that person is. Can you find an answer to 
the second question? How many people do you know who 
can  without lying to themselves?
Eric Salzman is Diversions editor and a philosophy 
major. He is tired of writing about toilets and diet soda, so 
he decided to to do something more topical. He hopes you 
like it.
A PERSONS
OPINION
Jim Snyder/Darkroom Manager
Alice Mencsh 
Senior
Industrial Design
Jason Gilligan 
Junior 
Prof. Writing
Jessica Cobert
Sophomore
Design
Adam Freeman
Sophomore
Art
In the spirit of the har
mony and love brought about 
by the International Festi
val, we decided to pose the 
question that reflected the 
unceasing light of brother
hood: Where is the best 
place on campus to have 
sex?
In your own room, where no
body can hear you."
In the garden behind CFA.In the CMU laundromat, at 4 
am.
On top of the pretzel stand!
Carnegie Mellons Student Newspaper Since 1906
Editor-in-chief.... Lauren E. Heinz 
Managing Ed. Kenneth J. Kraemer
Business Manager........Amit Kar
News Editor...........Jason Togyer
Forum Editor.............John Biggs
Sports Co-Editors .... Paul Boothe
......................... Matthew Solitro
Features Co-Eds. Shannon Gibney 
Diversions Editor.... Eric Salzman
Acting Calendar Ed.......Sharmila
Venkatasubban 
Dossier Dsgn. Eds.Brockett Horne
...........................Jennifer Zieserl
Dossier Lit. Eds. Adriane Seibert
..............................Kevin Meehan
Art Co-Eds. ... Francine Gemperle
..........................Gabrien Symons
Photo Ed......Andrew McDermott
Production Mgr............ Kathy Liu
Systems Manager..........1-Ping LI
Copy Manager............Eric Strauss
Asst. Diversions Ed.....Ena Kahn
Photo Staff Mgr. Jason Siegendorf 
Darkroom Manager.... Jim Snyder 
Acting Pers. Mgr... Brian Curfman
Senior Staff 
Jason Andracki, Matt Ball, 
Chlntan Shah
Staffwriters 
Gil Alterovitz, Yosef Blrnboim, Chris 
Cannon, Steve Charnoubi, Darren 
Chiappetta, Carey Clevenger, 
Tricla Davis, Nell Donnely, Gretel 
Gaal, Dan Goldwasser, Anuj Gupta, 
Tom Harper, Jason Helnlein, David 
Koran, WladimirLabeikovsky, April 
C. Moate, Angela Molloy, 
Jonmichael L.T. Moy, Suzanne 
Paddok, Sudhir Reddy, Rick 
Simmons, James Stepanek, Paul 
Tabachneck, Bill Vandeimaik, Dawn 
Wallhausen, Susan Watson, 
Heather Zlndle
Art
Mark Eggert, Karri Plotkin, Ryan 
Rhoades, Damon Wong
Comics
Nick Casciato Jr., Hiromi 
Hasegawa, Robert Slater, Dave 
White, Daniel Yauger, Mike Yeh, 
S. Hyun Ylm
Photo
Vineet Agarwal, Josh Freeman, 
Gustavo Sganzerla, Maria Valen
ti, Yuzo Watanabe
Darkroom 
Elias Fallon, Scott Hess, Helen 
Huang, Carla Sereny
Production 
Shiv Dewan, Lisa Don, Heather 
Keith, Jennifer Li, Lester Manzano, 
Elizabeth Neuman, ShantanuRana
Copy
Lori Bowes, Renee Cardelll, Mimi 
Cheng, Ivor Clarke, Madhav 
Ghanta, D. Renee Hairston, Win
ter Mason, Victor Ortega, 
Catherine Senderling, M. J. Wil
son, Elizabeth Zambelli
Business 
Lin Dai, Patricia DIGiuseppi
Junior Staff 
Kaori Aoyanna, Diana Bartolotta, 
Wanching Cheng, Lome Colon, 
Jaroslav Delapedraja, Anne Marie 
Devine, Neil Donnelly, Alexandra 
Grundeman, Michael Howard, Alex 
Lewln, Sandy Lii, Jay Mioila, Dizzy 
Murphy, Kenneth Namchung, Kyle 
Oppenheim, Rick Rikoskl, Dan 
Rosenberg, Jessica Streiitz, Minh 
Tran, Andrew Wang, Jlllian 
Watkins, Aaron Welsberg, Bradley 
Zimmerman
The Tartan is the student newspaper of Carnegie Mellon 
University. It is a weekly newspaper published by students 
during the fall and spring semesters, at no cost to members 
of the University community. It is printed by Western 
Pennsylvania Printing, Inc. Subscriptions are available for 
the semester or academic year. The editorials appearing at 
the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion 
of The Tartan editorial board. Columns and political car
toons are the opinions of Individual creators. The Tartan 
reserves the right to reject or condense any column or 
political cartoon. Letters to the Editor are opinions of 
authors who are usually, but not necessarily, members of 
the University community. A letter intended for publication 
must be signed and Include thewriters address and phone 
number for verification. Names may be withheld upon 
request. Tho Tartan requests that letters be no longer than 
500 words. Tho Tartan reserves the right to condense or 
reject any letter. Copyright O 1995 by Tho Tartan. The 
Tartan editorial board reserves the right to withhold from 
publication any copy it deems unfit for publication.
Office: Student Center Room 104 
Phone: (412) 268-2111
Mailing address: The Tartan/Bo* 17/Carnegie Mellon Uni
versity/Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890 
Funded in part by your Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN : 0890-3107.

---------------------------------------------------

PHI BETA KAPPA 
VISITING SCHOLAR 
PROGRAM
Tuesday, November 7
4:30 pm, Breed Lecture Hall, 
Margaret Morrison Carnegie Hall
A public lecture on
"Sex in America: An 
Overview M
The lecture will provide an overview of the 1992 National Health and 
Social Life Survey as a scientific project, a political struggle, and 
selected and substantive results and their policy implications for the 
individual and society. Special attention will be paid to the gender 
gap in sexual practices and preferences, numbers of sex partners, 
emotional and physical satisfaction, normative orientations toward 
sexual conduct, and sexually transmitted infections (including the 
threat of the spread of AIDS in the population at large).
Limited seating. Sign up by sending e-mail to 
tango+@ andrew.cmu .edu
You may also hear Professor Laumann:
Monday, November 6
Informal luncheon/discussion:
"Public policy and the AIDS epidemic."
11:00 a.m.-12:30 pm, Mudge Lounge 
Sign up by sending e-mail to gtOz@andrew.cmu.edu
Class session:
80-136, Social Structure, Public Policy, & Ethical Dilemmas 
1:30-2:20 pm, Porter Hall A18a 
Contact ps7z+@ andrew.cmu.edu for more information
"Gatherine Storr"discussion 
"Rights and expectations of 
personal privacy on the Internet"
4:30-5:30 pm, West Wing Recreation Room, Resnik Hall 
Open to the public
EDWARD O. LAUMANN
Mead Distinguished Service Professor of 
SociologyUniversity of Chicago
Tuesday, November 7
Class session:
88-240, Empirical Research Methods in the Social Sciences I 
Topic: "Inquiring about sex: methodological issues." 
9:00-10:20 am, Adamson Wing (Baker Hall 136a)
Open to the public
Informal luncheon/discussion:
11:00 am - 12:30 pm., West Wing Recreation Room, Resnik Hall 
Topic: "Changes in the legal profession, 1970s-1990s." 
Pre-law students especially invited to attend.
Sign up by sending e-mail to gt0z@andrew.cmu.edu
Class session:
79-330, Health Policy Reform: Historical Perspective. 
Topic: "Science, health policy and politics."
1:30-2:50 p.m., Baker Hall 255a 
Sign up by sending e-mail to acker@andrew.cmu.edu
The Phi Beta Kappa Visiting Scholar Program contributes to the 
intellectual life of the campus by facilitating an exchange of ideas 
among visiting scholars, students, and faculty members.
Dr. Laumann's visit is made possible by the generous support of 
the Phi Beta Kappa Society Visiting Scholar Program, and 
Upsilon of Pennsylvania (the Carnegie Mellon chapter of Phi 
Beta Kappa).
Edward Laumann is director of the Ogburn Stouffer 
Center for Population and Social Organization and former 
editor of the American Journal of Sociology. Among his 
eleven books are: The Social Organization of Sexuality, 
Sex in America, The Hollow Core: Interest Representation 
in National Policymaking, and The Organizational State: 
Social Choice in National Policy Domains.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  23 October 19959
lontana is still best ever
Gridiron Grapevine
by Steve Charnoubi
Steve Young may have shaken 
e monkey off his back by provg he could lead the San Fransco 49ers to victory in Super 
0wl XXIX, but he still has to do 
!ore to prove that hes a better 
marterback than his predecesJoe Montana is one of the 
eatest quarterbacks of all time. 
A great quarterback is mealured not by how accurately he 
irows, or how quickly he releases 
e football, but by what hes done 
nd what hes accomplished, 
teve Young has accomplished a 
lot and is one of the top quarter
backs in the NFL today, but 
hes no Joe.
Montana was taken in the 
'third round of the 1979 NFL 
Draft out of Notre Dame. In 
0iis sophomore year, he was 
chosen by head coach Bill 
Walsh to step in and take 
control of the new, unproven 
West Coast offense that 
Walsh had introduced.
The West Coast offense is a 
system where the quarterback 
and receivers read the defense 
and adjust to it accordingly so 
;hat the quarterback will throw 
the ball to a location where the 
receiver will be able to gain extra 
yardage after the catch. Joe pio
neered that offense and defined 
the quarterbacks role for it.
In the 1980 NFC Champion
ship game, Joe managed to lead 
the 49ers for a last-minute come
back drive against the Dallas 
Cowboys by throwing the gamewinning touchdown pass to 
Dwight Clark with no time left on 
he clock. He then led the 49ers to 
(their first Super Bowl victory by 
defeating the Cincinnati Bengals 
26-21, gaining Super Bowl MVP 
honors for his performance. Joe 
was named Super Bowl MVP two 
more times, in Super Bowl XIX
where the 49ers beat the Dol
phins 38-16, and again in Super 
Bowl XXIV where they punished 
the Broncos, 55-10.
The one Super Bowl that the 
49ers won with Joe at the helm in 
which he was not named MVP is 
probably the one for which he 
deserved it most. In Super Bowl 
XXIII, in a rematch against the 
Cincinnati Bengals, the 49ers 
were down 16-13 with less than 
four minutes left to play. With 
one last drive, Montanas only 
thought was to score the touch
down. He wasnt going to leave 
the game in the hands of his kicker 
by taking the 49ers into field goal 
range. He took it upon himself to 
led the 49ers to the winning touch
down in what was one of the clos
est Super Bowls in history.
In four Super Bowls, Montana 
came through when it counted 
most by recording 11 touchdowns, 
1,142 yards, a 66 percent comple
tion ratio, and no interceptions.
Damon Wong/Tartan Artist
Hes had two regular season 
MVPs, 31 fourth-quarter come
backs, and he holds the NFL 
record for quarterback rating for 
a single season with 112.5 points. 
He is fourth on the all-time list in 
passingyards (40,551) and touch
down passes (273).
Many argue that Montana ben
efited from a system designed for 
quarterbacks, and that he had an 
incredible surrounding cast. How
ever, he made the system what it 
is, and he didnt have the best 
around him for his first five ye ars. 
Even when he was playing for the 
Kansas City Chiefs for his last 
two seasons, he took a team, 
whose talant-pool was a far cry 
from that which he played with 
in San Francisco, to the playoffs 
both years.
The argument of why Montana 
had such a successful career is
more suitable for Young, who was 
put at the head of a system that 
had already been perfected and 
was from the start surrounded by 
All-Pros.
Young took control of a team 
that had just won a Super Bowl 
the year before and was still in 
full drive. Young excelled in this 
system, and his three straight 
seasons as the highest-rated 
quarterback proves so. Young also 
won his first Super Bowl last year 
while gaining MVP honors, but it 
was because the team was loaded 
on both offense and defense with 
superstars more than his spec
tacular playing. The two seasons 
before, the 49ers lost to the Dal
las Cowboys in the NFC Champi
onship game.
Young has yet to prove that he 
can win when hes behind. There 
are many games during which 
the 49ers were losing; for most of 
these, Young showed he didnt 
have what it took to come back 
and win. In week four on 
Monday Night Football 
against the Detroit Lions, the 
49ers were down by three with 
about two minutes left to play, 
and Young drove the football 
down into field goal range.
The kicker then missed the 
field goal with no time left, 
and the 49ers lost the game. 
During the drive Young had
thrown two or three bad passes to 
receivers in the middle for short 
yardage that ended up running 
down the clock because the re
ceivers couldnt get out of bounds. 
Montana would have settled for 
nothing but a touchdown.
Young is an excellent quarter
back and an incredible runner, 
but he has a lot more to prove if he 
ever wants to be put in the same 
category as Montana. Joe was a 
winner, plain and simple. He went 
into each game and each drive 
knowing he would score and win. 
Joes coolness under fire, his abil
ity to win the big game, and his 
amazing talent makes him the 
greatest quarterback ever.
Steve Charnoubi is a sophomore 
who wants to congratulate the 
69ersfor a great season. Next year, 
well win it all.IM crowns three football champs
By RICK SIMMONS
Tartan Staffwriter
Last Thursday night, the Intramural Depart
ment held the annual IM Football Championships 
 in Gesling Stadium. Teams which had battled for. 
weeks to reach the tops of their divisions faced off 
on the turf for the final time. In the womens 
division, the Tartan Hoopers won their third con
secutive Intramural Football title by defeating 
Theta/DG 14-6. Quarterback Kelly Gaitens con
sistently connected with wide receiver Penny 
Summerville, leading to two touchdowns and one 
extra point. The other extra point was scored on a 
pass from Gaitens to Daphne Harris. This was the 
Tartan Hoopers third consecutive intramural foot
ball title. In fact, they havent even lost a single 
game in the past three seasons.
In the minors championship, the Beta All-Starts 
matched up against the Delt Scrubs. Strong defen
sive pressure from both defensive lines resulted in 
few completed passes. Betas pass-rushers were 
led by Tyson Baker. Beta overcame the tough
You pulled 83 all-nighters, 
crammed for 52 finals, and 
drank 3,506 cups of coffee.
Now it all comes down to this.
CMU beats Wittenberg
SOCCER, from page 14
CMU dominated Bethany with 23 shots to their 
zero.
Head Coach Ann Haggerty was proud of her 
teams performance.
She said, We controlled the game. We tried to 
get the most out of it we could, even though the
Gustavo Sganzerla/Tartan Photographer 
Sophomore forward Kim Umeda tries to work the ball past 
the Wittenberg goalkeeper in CMUs 1-0 victory.
pressure was not too tight.... In the second half, 
we played with intensity, even though [Bethany 
wasnt applying pressure], which is the sign of a 
smart team.
Casella expressed similar sentiments. She said,
We played so well. It was a great way to end the 
season at home... and a great way for the seniors 
to go out.... We played how we practiced all 
season.
CMU also had a very strong showing last 
Sunday, as they hosted Wittenberg College in a 
Homecoming matchup and defeated them 1-0.
The only score of the game came in the opening 
minutes of the first half as Poisson received a 
corner kick from Hogan in front of the net and 
headed it past the keeper into the far left comer 
of the goal:
The Tartans remained in control for most of the 
first half. Fighting for control of the ball ranged 
from midfield to deep in Wittenbergs defensive 
zone. With minutes to go before halftime, one 
Wittenberg drive was reversed and sophomore 
forward Lauren DeRosset took the ball down the 
sideline, beating defenders. The goalie managed to 
stop the fast break with a slide tackle that 
knocked the ball out of bounds.
After the half, momentum shifted to the 
opponent as Wittenberg took control of the 
ball and kept it for most of the half. But a 
powerful performance by the Tartan de
fense, led by Hogan and freshman back 
Tracy Burton, frustrated Wittenbergs scor
ing drives. CMU had a number of pushes 
downfield, but they were quickly turned 
around by Wittenbergs defense. Midway 
through the half, DeRosset again sprinted 
the ball up the sideline, with three defend
ers trailing. DeRosset dodged a sliding stop 
by the goalie, but the shot went wide of the 
goal and out of bounds.
For the rest of the half, Wittenberg con
tinued to pressure the Tartan defense, but 
they were unable to take advantage of any 
scoring opportunities and time ran out.
Casella said, It was a tremendous win 
for us.... We knew it was a big game [and] 
we had nothing to lose. We pulled together and 
played the best we could. Everyone played well 
that game, it was a total team effort.
Haggerty felt that this was an important win, as 
the Wittenberg team was ranked eighth in the 
nation. She said, We want to peak at this time of 
the season. Haggerty also said, We put a lot 
together today.... Theres still more we can do, but 
it was a good game.
The Tartans started the past weeks winning 
streak with an away game against Seton Hill 
College on October 10. CMU won 1-0 on a goal by 
Umeda with an assist by Caster.
The womens soccer team will finish their season 
this week as they travel to Grove City College this 
Thursday, followed by a trip to Washington Uni
versity on Saturday.
defense, though, and scored on the first drive of the 
game, scoring the extra point as well. Beta enjoyed 
the lead until the fourth quarter when each team 
scored a touchdown, making the score final at 13- 
6, Beta on top.
No players were named MVP for either the 
womens or minors games, as both wins were great 
team efforts.
The majors final was a high-scoringgrudge match 
between the SAE Champions and the NP Comple
tions. The scoreboard remained blank at the end of 
the first quarter. Then, SAEs senior quarterback 
Javier Rocha began finding freshman wide re
ceiver Chris Butsko on the long passes, accounting 
for three touchdowns. An interception return by 
Butsko and an running play by Rocha tallied an
other two touchdowns for the unstoppable Cham
pions.
SAE was up 20-6 at halftime, and the score was 
39-18 by the midpoint of the fourth quarter. When 
time ran out of the clock, the score stood at 45-24, 
giving SAE back-to-back majors titles. Botsko and 
Rocha were named co-MVPs for the game.
WHAT^NEXTAFTER THE FINAL FINAL?
RELAX
The Monster Board Is An Eye Opener.
The Ultimate Career Site On The Web. 
Conduct a job search, post your resume, 
even apply on-line in minutes ... all free!
No Pen. No Paper. No Postage. Just sit back and click. 
What could be easier? Or more worthwhile?
Find Your Future Online With The Monsters! 
http :/ / www. monster, com
pay attention to life... share what you find ... make noise ... move on
to detect and serve the new leaders of this world http://www.monster.com/roar/Roar.html
Because The Job Market Is Scary Without Them
You worked hard to get 
your degree. No\v put it to 
work for you. If youre about 
to receive a Bachelors,
Masters or Ph.D. in Electrical 
Engineering, Computer Engineering, 
Computer Science, Chemical Engi
neering, Material Sciences, Applied 
Physics, or similar technical disci
plines, join Intel. We have entry-level 
opportunities in IC and Hardware 
Design, Manufacturing, Software 
Engineering, and Information 
Technology. With a choice of
lifestyles at sites in northern 
California, Oregon, Arizona, 
New Mexico, and Washington 
state.
Send Your Resume 
to Intel Now
Send your ASCII resume via e-mail 
to jobs@intel.com. Or, post a letterquality version to Intel, College 
Relations, Dept. M278, 1900 Prairie 
City Road, M/S FM3-145, Folsom, . 
CA, 95630. For details on the world 
leader in information technology, see 
www.intel.com/intel/oppty.
inte>.
Imel Corporation is an equal opportunity employer and fully wpporu affirmative action practice. Intel also supponi a drug-free workplace and requires that all offers of employment be contingent on satisfactory pre-employment drug test resu! C1995. Intel Corporation. All rights resenwUntcl and the Intel logo are registered trademarks of Intel Corporation.
CIGNA is 
hiring a new 
breed of 
technologists.
CIGNA
A Business of Caring.
CIGNA Systems is recruiting people to help connect us 
to the 21st Century. CIGNA is a leading provider of 
insurance and related financial services. CIGNA 
Systems operates and maintains the technological 
infrastructure that supports CIGNA's eight business 
divisions and three staff divisions worldwide.
We are looking for business technologists who are inter
ested in positions such as operating one of the largest 
Local Area Networks (LAN) under one roof in the 
nation, or maintaining our extensive voice and data 
network connecting 37,000 workstations and tele
phones in 1,700 locations throughout the U.S.
For more information about opportunities in the 
Hartford, CT and Philadelphia, PA areas, please contact 
your placement office.
We will be recruiting at Carnegie-Mellon 
University on November 9, 1995
or visit us on the WorldWideWeb at: 
hhtp://www.CIGNA.com
We're iin c-i/iiiil opportunity employer. M/IVD/V.
"CIGNA" refers tu CIGNA Corporation tiiul/ur one or mure of 
its siihsitliiiries. Must employees iire employed by stibsi,furies 
of CIGNA Corporation.

---------------------------------------------------

ttention 
Booth. Chairs!
Planning has already 
begun for
Want to know what it's like to...
...build a justice 
management system that 
links lawyers, judges 
and clerks in Prince 
Georges County, MD?
Ask us.... Were Doing it! Univer
Equal Opportunity Employer
If you are a booth chair for an organization 
interested in having a booth on the Midway 
of Spring Carnival, please contact Darlene 
Ailing (goofy@cmu.edu) and come to
the NEXT
la
Wed, Oct 25th, 9pm
Student Cntr 203

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  23 October 199599
Interesting matchups eliminated by losses this week
Administration
IM Director Mike Mastroianni x8- 2214; Asst. Director Mike Grzywinski 683-2938; IM Secretary  Michelle Matta X8-2053; IM Co-Presidents  Mike Monico and Sean Keane x-2-2900; IM Women's President  Patty Bruno
Important Dates
Tuesday, October 24  Intramural Board meeting, 12:30 pm in New Conference Room.
Tuesday, October 24  Water Polo ihampionships, 9 pm and 10 pm.
Wednesday, October 25  Darts and Table Tennis schedules can be Dicked up in the Intramural Office.
Thursday, October 26  IM entries due for three-person volleyball, backgammon, and bridge.
Sunday, October 28  Bowling begins 10:30 pm at Forward Lanes.
All-Intramural Football Team
Kevin Byrne, SAE; Chad Brown, SAE; :hris Butsko, SAE; Javier Rocha, SAE; Bill Niehaws, NP Completions; Todd lochem, NP Completions; Joe Boyles, Beta Colemans #83; Mike Monico, Beta Jolemans #83; Jon Blanciak, Beta Colemans #83; Rob Malkin, Gang 3reen; AndySofish, GangGreen; Marvin Sermany, Hit Squad; Mark Weaver, 3SIA.
Tennis
The Intramural Departmentwould like to congratulate the following 1995 Intramural Tennis Champions:
Minors  SIAM Intermediate  NOESTRUCT Majors TEAM FORMERLY KNOWN
Golf
The 1995 Intramural Golf Touma- nentwas held on Sunday, October 1 at ichenley Golf Course. The top three idividual winners were:Gardner Carvil (DU) 72 "2. Matt Ramme (Dead FrogWedges) 80 3. Matt Anderson (DU) 80
Water Polo
The 1995 Water Polo Championship will take place on Tuesday October 24.Minors ChampionshipPKT Gators vs. TX Phish at 9 pmMajors Championship  DU Ringers vs. SAE Sharks at 10 pm
Bowling
Those bowiingteams that responded to the IM Department should pick up the 1995 bowling schedules on ednesday, October 25.The matches will take place on Saturdays from 10:20-1:30 pm at the Forward Lanes Bowling Alley in Squirrel Hill.
Soccer
The 1995 Intramural Soccer season started on Thursday, October 19 with a total of 84 teams participating. Teams should pick up schedules in the IM Office, Room 101 of the gym.
Six-Person Volleyball
The 1995 Six-Person Volleyball season is into its third week of play. Teams should check the IM bulletin board for any league changes.
Darts & Table Tennis
Schedules for both darts and table tennis can be picked up in the Intramural Office on Wednesday, October 25. Games for both activities will start on we following Monday, October 30. earns in both activities are reminded to turn in game results 24 hours after mpletion on their contests.
Officials
Jt is not too late to sign up to officiate ''mural Soccer. If you are interested, !ase call Intramural Director Mike 'Stroianni at X8-2214.
UNDEFEATED, from page 14
Florida State has never lost an 
AGC football game. Their nem
esis, Miami, hasnt been a threat 
lately, and is fading fast.
By the time they get around to 
playing the Gators, they will be 
10-0 and a finely-tuned scoring 
machine.
Perhaps the Seminles have 
learned what happens when you
play competitive teams. In the 
past, their non-conference games 
would be Miami and Florida ev
ery year and then a bitter winter 
meeting at a Notre Dame or 
Michigan. After losing one of those 
games, they would have to settle 
for a less prestigious bowl game 
and a lower final ranking.
As things remain, it looks like 
the Florida/Florida State game is
the only showdown well get to see. Kansas could hold on to give Nebraska a good game, but dont count on it.
Every team in the Pac-10 has 
lost, so there still may be a fight 
to the end. It wont be as exciting 
as when their top team is a con
tender for the national champi
onship.
For the second year in a row,
the Rose Bowl will be a Big Ten 
teams race to number two. The 
Big East is having an off-year, 
led by Miami in disappointment.
Increased competition has 
made for better season games, 
but gone is the end of the year 
excitement. For all intents and 
purposes, only two games really 
matter: the Florida/Florida State 
matchup previously mentioned,
and the winner of that game ver
sus Nebraska in the Fiesta Bowl.
The other previously highly 
anticipated games will now be 
about as fun as watching a tree 
shed its leaves.
Chris Cannon is a sophomore 
computer science major who had 
an outstanding performance in 
the Highlander Games.
Submitted by MICHELLE MATTA
You are VI () / a mooch. But when 
a hole in your pocket renders you changeless,
you reluctantly call the folks COllCCt.
You dial 1 800 CALL ATT.
Your pangs of guilt are Wit VI/Wl Cl I.
1 800 CALL ATT always costs less than i-soo-collect.
Always works from any phone. And always gets you the reliable AI&T Network.
Use it whenever you're off campus.
Know the Code. 1 800 CALL ATT. Thats Your True Choice:"
AT&T
Your True Choice
 For interstate calls. Promotions excluded. 1-800-COLLECT is a registered trademark of MCL

---------------------------------------------------

i K iNCi i* i. I-: s of s o r N i) R i-: \ i r i: m k n i i \ v i: s i i \ c;
BEFORE TRUSTING TOUR FUTURE 
TO ANY COMPANY, ASK FOR 
SOME LETTERS OF REFERENCE.
You put more than just your savings into 
a retirement company. You put in 
your trust and hopes for the future, too. So 
before you choose" one, ask some questions. 
How stable is the company? How solid are 
its investments? How sound is its overall 
financial health?
A good place to start looking for answers 
is in the ratings of independent analysts. 
Four companies, all widely recognized 
resources for finding out how strong a 
financial services company really is, gave 
TIAA their top grade.
IN THE FINAL ANALYSIS, TIAA IS LETTER PERFECT
TIAA received A++ (Superior) from A.M. 
Best Co., AAA from Duff & Phelps Credit 
Rating Co., Aaa from Moodys Investors 
Service and AAA from Standard & Poor's. 
These ratings reflect TIAA s stability, sound 
investments, claims-paying ability and over
all financial strength. (These are ratings of
insurance companies only, so they do not 
apply to CREF.)
And TIAAwhich, backed by the company's 
claims-paying ability, offers a guaranteed rate 
of return and the opportunity for dividendsis 
one of a handful of insurance companies nation
wide that currently hold these highest marks.
CREF. FOUR MORE LETTERS EVERYONE SHOULD KNOW.
For further growth potential and diversi
fication, theres the CREF variable annuity, 
with seven different investment accounts to 
give you the flexibility you want as you save 
for the future*
Together, TIAA and CREF form the world's 
largest private retirement system based 
on assets under management, with over 
$145 billion in assets and more than 75 
years of experience serving the education 
community. For over a million and a half 
people nationwide, the only letters to 
remember are TIAA-CREF.
Ensuring the future 
for those who shape it.
Not all accounts arc available under the basic retirement plans i 
Retirement Annuities (SRAs). CREF certificates a
all institutions. They are, however, all available for TIAA-CREF Supplemental 
t distributed by TIAA-CREF Individual & Institutional Services.
Announcing: The 3rd Annual Carnegie Mellon College Bowl Tournament!
Ask yourself these questions:
1. Were you part of your high school's academic team or 
quiz bowl team and want to do something like it in college?
2. Do you like to watch Jeopardy! to test your knowledge?
3. Do you like playing Trivial Pursuit?
4. Is your mind full of trivia?
5. Or are you just interested in something called College 
Bowl?
If you answered yes to at least one of these questions or 
even if you did not, go to the Student Center Information 
Desk and get a registration form for the College Bowl 
Tournament.
The deadline to turn in the form is November 5th.
If you have any questions please contact Benjamin Wang 
at 2-2996 or e-mail cbowl+@andrew.cmu.edu.
The tournament will occur on November 10th, 11th, 
17th, and 18th.
Sponsored by College Bowl 
&
Funded by your Activities Fee
Come to the BOC
Don't miss out on your 
representatives of rep 
with job placement
October 26, 1995.
chance to meet with 
utable companies 
opportunits.
The BOC is brought to youby AIME and GCMSO.

---------------------------------------------------

Abu A-Ja-m l w-Jmuyeu ruccom imenuJgeat l CM UkaosuJ :PPd:M
CMU Hockey club 
destroys Edinboro
By JESSICA STRELITZ
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
The score sheet said it all. The 
Tartans are on a roll.
The CMU Tartan Hockey Club 
team, playing away at Erie Sat
urday night, trounced Edinboro 
13-2 for their first divisional win 
of the season. Three misconducts 
and poor defense plagued 
Edinoro who ended up in the box 
for over forty minutes as a team.
Two minutes into the first pe
riod, Assistant Captain Chris 
Adukaitis, a junior defenseman, 
scored his first goal of two on the 
night. It was all uphill from there 
for CMU as the Tartans, lead by 
junior left-winger Anthony Paul, 
senior center and Captain, Roger 
Maddalena, and junior right
winger James Buck, found the 
back of the net time and time 
again.
Paul had an all-star perfor
mance of four goals and two as
sists. Maddalena netted two 
goals (including a power play 
goal) and five assists, while Buck 
continued his scoring pattern 
with two goals and three assists.
Coach Fred Maddalena viewed 
the game as a test of skill for the 
team. He encouraged them to 
keep up the pace by practicing 
passing andplayingit safe, which
they did, enfr acting only twelve 
minutes of individual penalties. 
Frustrated, the Edinboros de
fense simply let down, allowing 
the Tartans to weave through 
their weak defense and score on 
their equally weak goalie, who 
was shelled by over twenty Tar
tan shots on net.
Edinboros offense, however 
did not relax, forcing CMU 
defensemen sophomore Paul 
Voulgaris and Grad Student 
Dan Kodesh, to skate hard and 
hit effectively. Paul was hit
ting all over the ice, said the 
captains. He had a really good 
game.
The league victory was also 
an important test for the goal
ies. Junior goaltender, Jon 
Kliegman, made several key 
saves and held off Edinboros 
first line of offense for two 
straight periods, only leaving 
the ice when the Tartans were 
winning 9-0.
Sophomore goaltender Derek 
Jander finished out the game 
strong in net for the Tartans.
Carnegie Mellon faces Penn 
State West, Sunday, October 22 
in exhibition play. The squads 
next league game is Saturday 
October, 28 at 10:15 pm against 
Slippery Rock University at 
Meadville.
Tartan squad rolls over 
Bears, Maroons in UAA
FOOTBALL, from page 14
ball out of the speedy receivers hands on 
special teams. Brooms had no returns Sat
urday, a week after he ran back two kickoffs for touchdowns against the University 
of Rochester.
We shut Brooms down, said junior 
comerback Albie Fletcher, who had several 
pass knockdowns and played well on spe
cial teams. He had a few plays, but he 
didnt hurt us too much.
Senior cornerback Rob Locke agreed. 
Hes probably one of the best receivers in 
the UAA, if not in Division III, [but] we took 
him out of the game.
For the third straight week, it was Locke 
who made a pivotal play for the Tartans. 
Against Grove City two weeks ago Satur
day, he broke up a fourth down pass to seal 
a CMU victory, and last week, he forced a 
fumble late in the game that the Tartans 
recovered to preserve the win over Wash
ington. Saturday, he returned an intercep
tion 35 yards for a touchdown in the third 
quarter to put the game out of reach.
Although the play may not seem all that 
significant in what was essentially a lop
sided victory for the Tartans, head coach 
Rich Lackner said it may have been the 
biggest play of the game.
Although Chicago trailed 21-7 at the 
time of the interception, they had momen
tum on their side, and a Maroon score 
would have meant another close shave for 
CMU, which has endured its share of downto-the-wire games this season.
I think you maybe saw a dropoff in 
[Chicagos] play after the interception, said
Lackner. That was a backbreaker for them.
Lackner was pleased with his teams overall 
performance.
The kids played well. The offense moved the 
ball, [and] the first time Brooms got the ball, he 
got hit three or four times by three or four kids. 
Im not sure that didnt affect him.
* Soltysik rebounded from his subpar perfor
mance against the Bears last week with a 
strong effort on Saturday. Now the full-time 
starter, he went 6 for 14 for 117 yards and two 
touchdowns against the Maroons after throw
ing for just 32 yards with an interception 
against Washington.
The offense continued to be led by Neupaver, 
who continued his strong play Saturday. In the 
last two weeks, the sophomore has rushed for 
160 yards, caught five passes for 67 more, and 
has scored twice.
The start of the UAA season has also brought 
the Tartan defense to life. Last week, junior 
linebacker Ray Ardire was named the 
conferences defensive player of the week after 
a 14-tackle performance against the Bears, 
who came into the game as the llth-ranked 
team in Division III.
The Tartans continue their UAA schedule 
next week at the University of Rochester with 
renewed hope for the national playoffs.
Several of the teams ranked ahead of CMU 
in Division III lost Saturday, and with two 
consecutive quality victories, (Washington was 
6-0 and Chicago 5-1 entering their games 
with CMU) some Tartans are thinking post
season.
Were very excited about the chance to make 
the playoffs, Coates said. Its always some
thing we shoot for.
Tennis teams slam competition at tournaments
By SUDHIR REDDY
Tartan Staffwriter
The mens and womens tennis teams 
ended their seasons with great momen;um and optimism for the upcoming 
spring semester. The womens team, 
.vith a record of 10 wins and 1 loss, 
recently won at Clarion University 5-4 
ii: )n October 14. The mens team, with a 
record of 3 wins and 3 losses, most 
recently played in the Rolex Tourna
ment at Swarthmore College on the 
weekend of September 29-October 1.
The womens team played their clos
est match of the season against Clarion 
University in windy, winter-like condi;ions. According to the team, the tough
est adversary was actually not the op
ponent but the weather. Team captain 
Miriam Huang commented, We havent 
eally played in such windy, cold situa;ions, so a lot of us [the team] took a lot 
time warming up. Because it was 
;he last match of the season and they 
werent facing a conference opponent,
the teams mentality was lower than 
usual, but they continued their streak 
of victories.
Before the Clarion victory, they played 
in the Catholic University Tournament 
on October 7-8. Any harboring doubts 
of the teams success were put to rest as 
the team rolled through victory after 
victory. The event was an individualbased tournament as each team mem
ber played their rank across the tourna
ment. In singles play, Keri Mills won 
first place in the first player ranks, 
Miriam Huang won second place in the 
fourth player ranks, and Namita Amin 
won first place in the fifth player ranks. 
In doubles play, Keri Mills-Jillian 
Watkins won first place in the first 
doubles team ranks, Julie Balch-Karen 
Tuxen won second place in the second 
doubles team ranks, and Namita AminMiklane Fedorowich won second place 
in the third doubles team ranks.
With their many successes during the 
season, the women have been recog
nized as a force to be reckoned with
during the up-coming spring season. 
However, they will face many challenges 
next season, especially the Hilton Head 
Tournament and the UAA champion
ships. The matches at 
these tournaments will 
be similar to the level of 
difficulty as the Roches
ter match, which was the 
teams only loss. With this 
in mind, Huang said,
Were confident right 
now, but were not going 
to be over-confident be
cause we still have a long 
way to go.
The mens team has not 
played since early Octo
ber, but they also have 
high expectations for next 
season. Having lost only 
three close matches (two 
of them to Allegheny and one to Roches
ter) the team feels that it can reach new 
heights in the spring season. Number 
one seed Navroze Marshall said, Were
Tartan file photo 
The Tartans played well in 
recent tournaments.
really -looking forward to next season. 
Weve played all of [our opponents] with
out the Number Two [seed] so we should 
be really tough to beat.
The team took eight 
players to the Rolex 
Tournament three 
weeks ago. Two players 
advanced to the second 
round in the single elimi
nation tournament, but 
they had to play each 
other. Marshall defeated 
fellow teammate Amit 
Jaipuria 76, 63. 
Marshall won his third 
round match in three 
sets but lost in the 
quarterfinals to an even
tual finalist 6-2, 6-2. 
The number one doubles 
team lost to the even
tual winners in three tough sets 3-6,7- 6,6-4. The team had two match points 
in the second set but could not convert 
the points for the win.
Bruins will finally make serious run at Stanley Cup
Crashing the Net
by Jonmichael Moy
With the NHL kicking off two 
weeks ago, well take a glimpse 
at how the Northeastern Divi
sion is shaping up. Lets hope 
that the Atlantic Division will 
still be there for us next week, 
before Mike Keenan decides to 
swap his entire St. Louis Blues 
team for this years New York 
Rangers team.
Boston Bruins: With the ac
quisitions of ex-Pen players 
Kevin Stevens and Shawn 
McEachern, expectations are 
extremely high in the Beantown 
for the Bs to finally make a 
serious run for the Stanley Cup. 
With each game of the season 
Passing by, the StevensMcEachern trade looks to be 
one of the most lopsided trades 
m recent history. While aging 
stars Cam Neely, Adam Oates, 
and Ray Bourque are expected 
to have stellar years once again, 
there are still many question 
marks on this team. A1 The 
Wild Thing Iafrate must re
turn in the later part of the 
season. While Lacher must be 
more consistant to solidify his 
role as the Bruins starting 
goaltender. The acquisitions of
forwards Todd Elik and Joey 
Mullen add to the Bruins much 
needed offensive depth. Pre
dicted finish: First place 
Buffalo Sabres: This team 
will serve as the NHLs experi
ment to see how far an all-star 
goaltender can carry .a medio
cre team. Two-time Vezina 
winner Dominik Hasek will 
have a difficult time 
bending over back
wards to save this 
years team. With the 
lost of Alexander 
Mogilny and Dale 
Hawerchuk, all the 
pressure will be Pat 
Lafontaine, who is go
ing to have his work 
cut out for him with 
nobody to pass to.
The Sabres are sim
ply kidding with them
selves when they think 
forwards Donald 
Audette, Mike Peca, 
and Yuri Khmylev can 
fill in the missing 
pieces. When you 
think about the Sabres 
management trading 
away former 76-goal scorer 
Mogilny to the Vancouver 
Canucks, you have to ask your
self one question  Why? Pre
dicted finish: Fifth place
Hartford Whalers: Its sim
ply amazingto witness how one 
player can turn a team from 
one of the laughing stocks in 
the game to a serious contender. 
Thats what Brendan 
Shanahan, one of the leagues
premiere power forwards, de
livers to the Whalers in a block
buster trade that sent pros
pect defenseman Chris 
Pronger to the St. Louis Blues. 
With his leadership and 
presense, pressure will be
Montreal Canadians: For
get about the Habs starting off 
this season with their worst 
start in franchise history, 0-5. 
This team has all the skills and 
potential necessary to be a seri
ous team to be reckoned with, 
taken off young guns Geoff As previous years, the success 
Sanderson, Andrew Cassels, of the team is rested upon all 
and Steven Rice so that they star goaltender Patrick Roy
who is starting to 
show the tests of time, 
and must prove that 
he is still capable of 
dominating games. 
Forwards Pierre 
Turgeon, Mark 
Recchi, Vincent 
Damphouse, and Fin
ish star Saku Koiva 
give the Canadians 
good scoring depth 
and their defensive 
crop is solid as al
ways. The hiring of a 
new coach and man
agement will also 
help Montreal forget 
about their horrid 
start. Predicted fin
ish: Fourth place 
Mark Eggert/Tartan Artist Ottawa Senators:
can all have stellar perfor- While all-star center Alexei 
mances this year. Sean Burke Yashin hasnt reached his full 
is quietly becoming of the more potential in'the NHL to be ladominating goaltenders in the beled as a superstar, he means
league and his performance 
this year will dictate where 
the Whalers will finish. Their 
defense, while still young, is 
slowly becoming one of the 
most solid in the Northeasten 
Division for years to come. Pre
dicted finish: Second place
that and more to this Senator 
teams who have weaknesses at 
every position. With Yashin re
fusing to return to the Sena
tors, this year will be similar to 
last years season: another 
chance for their former firstround draft picks Alexander
Diagle and Rodak Bonk to gain 
more experience. With the 
absense of Yashin, both these 
players will be given adaquate 
ice time to strut their stuff. Steve 
Duchesne and Stan Neckar lead 
the Senators defense. This team 
will eventually become a serious 
playoff contender three to four 
years down the road. Predicted 
finish: Sixth place
Pittsburgh Penguins: Heres 
a question for all you Pens fans: 
Can you name four defensemen 
on this years roster? With James 
Patricks decision to unload the 
teams players salary, he leaves 
Sergei Zubov by himself with an 
extremely lackluster defensive 
supporting cast. The Penguins 
are still as lethal as ever on of
fense with Mario Lemeiux, 
Jaromir Jagr, Ron Francis, and 
Tomas Sandstrom. Expect this 
group, along with Zubov, to form 
the deadliest power play unit in 
the league this year. Its a shame 
that this team cant have the 
power play advantage for most 
of their games. Mario will bring 
home the bacon as Pens fans will 
fill the stadium to get a glimpse 
of their returned superstar. But 
according to the hockey rule that 
defense wins hockey games in 
the post-regular season , dont 
expect the Penguins to go very 
far in the playoffs. Predicted fin
ish: Third place
Jonmichael is debating on 
whether to get cable so that he 
can catch all those hockey games 
on ESPN2.
The Suicide Squeeze
by Anuj Gupta
New TV deal may save Major League
For those who are religiously inclined, 
the 28 major league owners and several 
hundred players may have already con
demned themselves to hell. Going back 
to 1992, vile acts, from forcing Commis
sioner Fay Vincent to resign to the labor 
strife, have pushed both groups below 
the pond scum of society.
During the mid to late 80s, the popu
larity of baseball was undeniable. Not 
only were attendance records set and 
broken on a continual basis, but para
phernalia associated with baseball 
(cards, hats, jerseys, etc.) had record 
revenues.
Things changed fast. The true effects 
of the mistakes made by owners and 
players alike were most apparent on a 
few recent, beautiful fall nights in Cin
cinnati. The Reds, a team formerly held 
in great reverence by local fans, were 
deserted throughout their playoff run 
with some games featuring as many as 
15,000 empty seats. Just a few years 
ago, one empty seat would have been 
unheard-of.
Lately, it appears that owners and 
players have finally acknowledged their 
degraded status and have started to 
respond with a series of incremental 
steps which are directing baseball back 
towards the golden years.
Recent efforts by owners to support 
the continuation of baseball in cities 
such as Seattle and Pittsburgh appear 
to be genuine, and when owners an
nounced last week that a television deal 
had been struck for the following season 
with CBS and FOX, I started to sense 
that the whole cast of characters were 
once again on the right path.
The specifics of the deal have yet to be 
announced, but when I read that FOX 
would return to the former national, 
Saturday game of the week, I couldnt 
help but think back to relaxing during 
warm, summer afternoons with the 
voices of Vin Scully and Joe Garagiola in 
the background.
Not only will FOX broadcast between 
18 and 26 regular season Saturday 
games, but CBS will pick up the tab on 
Thursday nights as well, following the 
All-Star game.
As for the postseason, forget this Base
ball Not-work (sorry ... Network) non
sense. Viewers will once again be able to 
see the majesty of the postseason in its 
full display with starting times of games 
scheduled such that all will be shown. A 
few will be shown on cable (ESPN, USA 
or Turner), but that is a minor glitch 
that, for now, may be overlooked.
Once again, fans in Florida may have 
the ooportunitv to watch a classic Satur
day Red Sox vs. Yankees match-up, as 
opposed to the enthralling Marlins vs. 
Cardinals disaster which became the 
nameplate of the Baseball Network.
And once again, we will have a chance 
to hear the voices of the finest broadcast
ers in the business, with the likes of Tim 
McCarver and Sean McDonough return
ing to CBS, and the winners that the 
dollars of Rupert Murdoch will surely 
attract.
In order for baseball to gain any sem
blance of its former self, it must present 
a positive image to the legions of angry 
fans. Congratulations, baseballyouve 
taken one large step.
There is not much to say or write about 
the 95 World Series that has not al
ready been done. But in an article de
voted to the recent fallacies of baseball 
and what is being done to correct them, 
this World Series falls right in place. 
The Braves vs. the Indians will become 
known as one of the all-time greatest 
series. Some of the best pitching and one 
of the best lineups in modem times will 
be pitted against one another to see who 
wins the battle ofGoliaths.
This series has it all: speed, power, 
defense, stingy relief pitchers, clutch 
pinch hitters, rookies, veterans, and a 
wily,tested manager against a young 
and eager manager. Just try to sit back 
and enjoy every pitch.
Anuj Gupta is a senior public policy 
major.

---------------------------------------------------

jocpfu PFh Tggpu IAbu A-Ja-mh w-Jmuyeu ruccom imenuJgeath OeaagspJybh Oummgtcn-me-CM UkaosuJ 9552
Tartans pick up 
two big UAA wins
By DARREN CHIAPPETTA
Tartan Staffwriter
It has been said that nothings better 
than a little home cookin. Carnegie 
Mellon calls the University Athletic 
Association home, and after struggling 
to a 3-2 mark their first five games, the 
Tartans were in desperate need of a 
jump-start. Voila! The UAA season 
started, and CMU regained its focus, 
piling up two consecutive impressive 
victories.
Last weekend, they defeated nationally-ranked Washington University of 
St. Louis, 12-8, in front of a Homecom
ing crowd at Gesling Stadium. Satur
day, they traveled to the University of 
Chicago and came away with a 35-21 
triumph in a game that was not as close 
as the final score indicated.
Weve dominated the UAA since its 
inception, said senior free safety Dave 
Coates, and we feel we should con
tinue to dominate. Since the confer
ence began in 1990, CMU has gone 20- 2 in league games and has won or shared 
four of five UAA crowns.
Against Chicago, the Tartans rolled 
up over 200 yards rushing for the sec
ond consecutive week, but it was the 
passing game that paved the way for 
CMU. The Tartans led 28-7 after three 
quarters, but after heavy substitution
by the Tartaft coaches, the Maroons put 
two late scores on the board.
On CMUs second possession, senior 
quarterback Dave Soltysik hit sophomore 
halfback Chris Neupaver on a short pass 
near the left sideline. Neupaver, with the 
help of great downfield blocking, was able 
to cut back all the way to the right sideline 
for a 47-yard touchdown and a 6-0 Tartan 
lead.
Late in the first half, after a one-yard 
sneak by Soltysik and the resulting twopoint conversion put CMU up 14-0, Buck 
Neel caught a pass-over the middle and 
outsprinted the Maroon secondary to the 
far sideline for a 29-yard score on a play 
quite similar to Neupavers earlier touch
down.. However, the ensuing kickoff was 
returned by Chicago to their own 48 yard 
line, and it took the Maroons just three 
plays and 36 seconds to cut the lead to 21- 
7, on a 35-yard scoring toss from quarter
back to Ron Dawczak to Derrick Brooms.
Senior strong safety Avi Barat had good 
coverage on the play, but slipped as Brooms 
leaped for the ball.
Although he had over 100 yards receiv
ing, the CMU players and coaches were 
pleased with the job the defense did on 
Brooms, last years UAA offensive player 
of the year.
In addition to slowing Brooms on of
fense, the Tartans were able to keep the 
Please see FOOTBALL, page 13
miuicrr TTTHEATTTTEER tauaii rnuiu uunui
Senior quarterback David Soltysik runs into the heart of the Bears defense.
Gustavo Sganzerla/Tartan Photographer 
Junior defender Jill Sincaglia crosses the ball in their 1-0 win over Wittenberg.
Womens soccer wins 
three; loses at Emory
By PAUL BOOTHE
Tartan Sports Co-Editor
After a series of great games in the 
past two weeks that added three wins 
to the womens soccer team record, the 
Tartans traveled to Emory University 
last Friday for a UAA match-up. Al
though the Tartans held the Eagles 
scoreless until the final 13 minutes of 
the game, Emory surged at the end to 
defeat CMU 2-0.
Team co-captain senior midfielder 
Maria Casella said, It was a terrible 
game for us. They dominated the game; 
theyre a very good team. We had a poor 
showing. Casella said that freshman 
goalkeeper Lindsay Smith had a num
ber of good saves in goal. Senior back 
Bridget Caster also played well, mark
ing her player and breaking up many of 
Emorys offensive drives.
This . loss comes after last 
Wednesdays home match-up against 
Bethany College, where the Tartans 
won the game easily, 6-0.
Scoring started early, as the goalie 
dropped the ball after a shot on goal 
less than a minute into the game and 
sophomore forward Kim Umeda 
stepped up to tap the ball into the net.
CMU controlled the ball well, keeping 
constant pressure on Bethanys defense. 
Toward the end of the half, the Tartans 
scored twice more to make the score 3-0 
at halftime. Umeda scored again with a 
shot to the upper far comer of the goal off 
of the goalkeepers fingertips.
Soon after that, junior back Mae Hogan, 
who has been consisted. with assists all 
season, tallied the third Tartan goal of 
the game with a long hard shot to the top 
center of the net.
The second half proved similar to the 
first, with CMU dominating Bethany in 
all facets of the game. Senior forward 
Nicole Poisson started the second-half 
scoring by putting a shot past the dazed 
goalie off of a pass from Casella.
Later in the half, Hogan scored again, 
her second of the season. On a comer 
kick, Hogan curved the ball around the 
post and placed the ball into the far upper 
comer of the net. This amazing goal was 
later followed by another impressive goal, 
this time by Casella.
From a pass by senior back Bridget 
Caster, Casella executed an excellent 
slide-kick from the top of the box. The ball 
sailed over the goalkeepers head for the 
final goal of the game. In the 6-0 game, 
Please see SOCCER, page 9
The Pigskin Pundit
by Chris Cannon
Teams drop 
from ranks of 
undefeated
Football is in the air and Octo
ber games are supposed to set up 
winter showdowns. But these 
days the only things falling faster 
than the leaves are undefeated 
teams. There wont be any big 
games, spectacular season fina
les, or divisional showdowns be
cause the top teams are losing 
games like trees drop acorns.
On Saturday, Iowa, Southern 
Cal, Kansas State, and Kansas 
all went in with perfect 6-0 
records. Iowa held on throughout 
the beginning of the game, but 
got shelled late in the game, los
ing to Penn State. In losing to 
Notre Dame, Southern Cal gave 
up more points (38) and turn
overs (four) than it had all sea
son. Kansas State never really 
stood a chance against Nebraska.
These results ruined a possible 
Battle of Kansas that could have 
taken place between two unde
feated Kansas teams, a possible 
match-up of unbeatens this week 
between Iowa and Ohio State, 
and a possible undefeated Rose 
Bowl matchup between Ohio 
State and Southern Cal. Was this 
just a bad week to be unbeaten? 
Not at all, its just a sign of better 
competition in college football.
Teams dont stay undefeated 
as long anymore because they 
are constantly playing good teams 
and will have a bad game eventu
ally. Consider that Miami of Ohio 
(not to be confused with Miami, 
Florida) handed Northwestern its 
only loss of the season on Sep
tember 16. Northwestern, the 
upset team of the year, has won 
at both Michigan and Notre Dame 
this year, and Michigan defeated 
Miami.
Now, more than ever, theres 
the sentiment that any team can 
beat any other team on any given 
day. College football is the only 
sport where a single loss usually 
means that you cant win the 
championship.
That added pressure can some
times malee the average 20-yearold crack. Nearly everybody is 
going to be down one day. Teams 
that never have bad games are 
very rare.
The teams that do stay unde
feated are either very good foot
ball teams or very good schedule 
makers. Ohio State is just that 
good; their opponents have a com
bined 22-202 record and theyve 
given them seven of those losses. 
The Buckeyes did not have an 
easy game, finishing the season 
against 6-1 Iowa, 3-2 Minnesota, 
3-3 Illinois, 2-4 Indiana, and 5- 
1 Michigan.
Nebraska has racked up its 
wins against weak opponents, but 
loaded the end of its schedule 
with tough teams that have a 
combined record of 23-6-1 before 
last Saturday.
Now that the Huskers are in 
sync, dont expect them to get 
upset. Especially if Lawrence 
Phillips returns to the team.
Florida plays a tough SEC con
ference schedule every year, and 
this time is topping it off with a 
home game against Florida State 
in their regular season finale. 
After that, they will most likely 
play in the SEC championship 
game and, finally, a big bowl 
game.
Comparatively, Florida State 
has a walk in the park. They play 
ACC teams that are better known 
for their basketball games, and 
their three non-conference games 
do not venture outside the state 
of Florida.
Please see UNDEFEATED, page 11
Women take UAA cross-country championship
Mens team finishes in fourth place at conference meet
By ANDREW McDERMOTT
Tartan Photo Editor
The womens cross country 
team was victorious at the UAA 
championships this weekend, 
and the mens team captured 
fourth place.
The womens team outper
formed the rest of the UAA field. 
Junior Becky Buchheit finished 
second, followed closely by fresh
man Maureen McGranaghan in 
fourth place. Senior Melissa 
Baustert and freshman Melissa 
Lott also finished well, coming
in ninth and 12th respectively.
The mens team was lead by 
freshman Kristo Kreichbaum, 
who placed eighth overall. Kreich
baum was followed by junior 
Sebastian Ziesler, who placed 20th overall.
The womens team came in 
ahead of the entire field, beating 
Washington University 40 to 49. 
Emory placed third, andBrandeis 
placed fourth.
The mens team finished be
hind traditional powerhouses 
Rochester, Brandeis and Wash
ington. However, the team beat
out the University of Chicago for 
fourth place.
Womens Coach Dario 
Donatelli was happy with the 
womens teams performance. 
The competition between the 
UAA womens teams was very 
intense.
We knew that we had a shot, 
and we also knew that it would 
be within two or three points, 
said Donatelli. It was probably 
one of the best UAA fields in 
years.
Donatelli was very pleased 
with the individual performances
of the team. To have a runner 
up, thats the best finish weve 
had in three or four years, said 
Donatelli. For Maureen [Mc
Granaghan] to finish fourth as a 
freshman is amazing.
Donatelli was named UAA 
Coach of the Year by the other 
coaches in the conference.
Meckley was also happy with 
the placing of the mens team. 
The team is just about where 
they should be, Meckley said. 
Meckley was especially happy 
with the performance of 
Kreichbaum. He is probably the
number one freshman in the con
ference this year. Kreichbaum 
made second team all-conference.
On October 14, the mens and 
womens teams defeated Grove 
City and Geneva. The top finish
ers for the mens team included 
Kreichbaum, who finished sec
ond at 28:01; Zeisler finished 
thirdat28:02; andRonPolcawich 
finished fourth at 28:03.
The womens team was led by 
Baustert in second in 20:15; 
Buchheit finshed third in 20:08; 
and McGranaghan finished 
fourth with a time of 20:43.Tartans winless against tough opponents over past two weeks
By RICK SIMMONS
Tartan Staffwriter
The mens soccer team went 0-3-1 in 
the past two weeks, going on the road 
twice and playing two tough games at 
home.
Last Tuesday the Tartans hosted lo
cal rival University of Pittsburgh. 
Freshman Justin Petro got the start in 
goal, and graduate student Jeff 
McJunkin slid back to sweeper to play 
in place of freshman Peter Truong, who 
was out with an injury. To fill 
McJunkins spot, graduate student 
Chuck Kuba moved from outside 
midfield into the middle. Freshmen Dan 
Brody and Marc Eldridge then got the 
starts at outside midfield.
There was no scoring in the first half, 
but three minutes into the second, Pitt 
scored when one of their corner kicks 
reached the far post, was headed back 
to the near post, and was finally knocked 
in by two Panthers crashing the net.
Carnegie Mellon equalized the score 
when a throw-in from sophomore 
midfielder Jason Buelow bounced off a 
Pitt player and was headed in by fresh
man forward Harry Ulrich. No more 
scoring occurred in regulation and the 
game went to overtime.
Two 15-minute overtime 
periods were played, and 
Pitt scored both of their 
next two goals in the first 
period. The Tartans 
played even with the Pan
thers the whole game un
til overtime, when they ap
peared to have just run 
out of steam. Four min
utes in, Petro dove to save 
a shot, and without com
plete control of it, a Pitt 
forward knocked it away 
from him and into the goal.
The other goal came right 
before the end of the first 
OT period. A throw-in was 
headed in by a Pitt player, _ , , , ........and it arced high and just SoPhomol'e fard Aklra lmal taliied the Tarta" *lone Sa'
out of Petros reach. Pitt won, 3-1.
The day of homecoming here at Carnegie 
Mellon, the mens soccer team traveled to 
Washington & Jefferson. They lost, 21.
Two weeks ago, on a Wednesday, 
Bethany came to Carnegie Mellon. They 
were just about an unstoppable force. The 
Tartans handled them, though, for about 
three quarters of the game, going into 
halftime down only 2-0 and scoring first in 
the second half. After that, though, 
Bethany turned on the power, scoringthree
goals in the last fifteen minutes of the 
game to finalize it at 5-1.
In the first half, a ball that was bounc
ing around in the Tartan area was trapped 
by a Bethany forward and was shot into 
the net. Fifteen minutes later, Pat Michel, 
a Bethany midfielder and Pittsburgh na
tive, gave forth an impressive individual 
effort as he kept the ball away from sev
eral Tartan defenders and then fired it 
into the upper right corner of the net.The 
Tartans got their goal in the second half
when a flood of attackers 
ran down the left side of 
the field, rushed the net, 
and overpowered the 
Bethany keeper.
Ulrich had a shot; it 
bounced around for a 
while before sophomore 
forward Akira Imai put 
it in the net.
Bethany got their three 
remaining goals on de
fensive breakdowns. The 
Tartans had been putting 
out a tremendous effort 
in playing even with 
Bethany for the time they 
did, and they just ran out 
of gas, while Bethany 
kept going.
The weekend before the Bethany game, 
the Tartans traveled to Franklin & 
Marshall, whom they tied, 0-0.
This past weekend, the Tartans flew to 
Atlanta to play Emory University on Fri
day and then to New York to play NYU on 
Sunday. Both were important UAA games.
This coming week the team will travel to 
Erie to face Penn State Behrend on Wednes
day and then to St. Louis for a UAA matchup 
against Washington University on Satur
day, their final game of the season.
Tartan Rie Photo 
against Bethany.

---------------------------------------------------

90, Issue 7The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania23 October 1995
International Festival '95:
By SHARMILA 
VENKATASUBBAN
Tartan Acting Calendar Editor
This is rarean enlightening 
; experience and art form. I saw 
Martin Yan, and the show was 
entertaining, but this was more 
than just entertainment, said 
Philomena Odea, a Pittsburgher 
who attended Saturday nights 
performance of ANANDA: The 
Dance of Joy. Oopalie Operajita 
performed the classical Indian 
dance as part of this years Inter
national Festival. Odea was one 
of the many who attended the 
 array of Asian dance and music 
programs that were sponsored by 
CMU during the five-day celebra
tion of Asia, the theme of this 
years festival:
International Festival 1995 
provided an opportunity for the 
campus to bring various ethnic
artists to the community, rang
ing from Traditional Persian 
Music to Operajitas rendition of 
Odissi, one of the earliest forms 
of Indian classical dance.
I tried to let the University 
know about these events early 
enough to where they could be 
worked into the festival, said 
Anne Witchner, assistant dean 
of Student Affairs.
I acted as an umbrella for the 
celebratiqn, bringing things to
gether under a certain theme.
One of the programs that kicked 
off the International Festival was 
the Weekly Music Convocation 
that featured an introduction to 
Persian music by revered musi
cian Darius Saghafi. The event 
was followed by a concert perfor
mance by Saghafi on the Santoor 
this past Friday. He was accom
panied by Mahmoud Tehrain on 
the Tonbak, the chief percussion
instrument of Persian music.
The concert was amazing, said 
Brandy Auld, a graduate of CFA. 
Everyone was having cerebral 
orgasms while they were play
ing, she said.
While I enjoyed the Persian 
music, Id have to say that the 
Sarod recital was by far the most 
intellectual and passionate per
formance of the festival, said 
Ravish Momin, a CIT alumni. 
Performed by Buddhadev Das 
Guptaon the,Sarod with Shyam 
Kane on the Tabla, the 
Hindustani Sarod Recital took 
place this past Wednesday and 
was co-sponsored by SPICMCAY, the Society for the Pro
motion of Indian Classical Music 
and Culture Amongst Youth.
Witchner found that participa
tion from student organizations 
in bringing musical events to 
Please see DANCE, page L2
Martin Yan spices 
up campus life
By KAORIAOYAMA
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
I will share the secret of my success with you, 
Martin Yan, host of the popular television show 
Yan Can Cook, told a Carnegie Mellon audience 
last Thursday.
Let me tell you something: food is very impor
tant in romance. My rommate in college had a 
microwave that he used all the time. He would 
pop something in it and the food would be ready 
in five minutes. But he had no girlfriends. I didnt 
have a microwave  I cooked my own food and it 
took a long time to prepare. I had many girl
friends, said Yan.
Yan preached his wisdom while preparing food 
for the Cooking with Martin Yan demonstra
tion.
The event was held as a part of the Asia Inter
national Festival and took place in a tent on the 
Cut. At this event, Martin Yan, taught CMU 
students how to cook Chinese chicken and beef 
stir-fry, as well as entertaining students with his 
jovial attitude on wide ranging topics from sex to 
the art of Tai Chi.
Yan began his cooking lecture by telling jokes 
which created a light, comfortable atmosphere. 
The key to his success with CMU students was 
appealing to the crowd with his understanding of 
what living and eating at college is like. More
over, Yans playful, sometimes silly attitude en
gaged the audience completely.
Yan began his cooking lesson by showing the 
crowd how to remove seeds from green and red 
bell peppers in two seconds, using a see-saw 
motion with his knife while gently rotating the 
Peppers.
If yourej impressed, show it!, joked Yan, 
which drew appreciative laughter and clapping 
from the audience.
Yan proceeded in his lesson by demonstrating 
the art of cutting the zucchini, onion, tomato, 
Please see YAN, page L3
Personal Journeys 
enlighten audiences
By ANNE MARIE DEVINE
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
One of the greatest attractions of the Inter
national Festival this year was Personal Jour
neys.
These small, casual talks were given by 
people that had fully experienced a particular 
Asian culture and wanted to share their knowl
edge. Topics ranged from the United Nations 
World Conference on Women to the language 
in Singapore to the history of Damascus, Syria.
Personal Journeys was organized by Larisa 
Naples, a graduate student in engineering 
and public policy.
She was drafted for the job after she criti
cized the programs in the Africa festival two 
years ago.
She had felt that the speakers of the past 
hadnt really experienced the cultures, that 
they had been on trips where you see eight 
countries in three days and were trying to 
sound more knowledgeable than they really 
were.
I try to find people who can give a presenta
tion that can give an idea of what it is really 
like to be in the culture, said Naples.
The talks were attended by a wide variety of 
people.
Early in the festival the audiences were 
composed of mostly CMU students and fac
ulty. The Family Weekend brought students 
and their parents to the presentations.
Some attended to a different perspective on 
the country of their heritage, some to explore 
an area related to their major, some just out of 
curiosity.
Julie Summers, a senior chemistry major, 
said, Im going to random ones [personal 
journeys] to learn more about countries. I 
wish more people would come; people seem so 
clueless about other countries.
Please see JOURNEYS, page L2
From top to bottom: members 
of the Chinese Magic Revue 
hurl through fire and knives 
during Friday's performance; 
students and parents browse 
through products at the food 
booths and arts and crafts 
fair held throughout the 
weekend; Chinese Magic 
Revue members greet the 
audience; and Chef Martin Yan 
serves up delectable dishes 
and laughs during Thursdays 
demonstration.
Photos: (from top to bottom) Jason 
Seigendorf/Tartan Photo Staff 
Manager, Andrew McDermott/Tartan 
Photo Editor, Michael Howard/Tartan 
Photographer, Lin Dal/Tartan 
Photographer.
Dance events engage students
T TT TT% T
tCt no is mop rtLlVlliVj

---------------------------------------------------

vCAbu A-Ja-m l w-Jmuyeu ruccom imenuJgeat l CM UkaosuJ :PPd
CMU celebrates Homecoming with bonfire, games, gala
By SHANNON GIBNEY
Tartan Features Editor
CMU kicked off its annual Homecom
ing celebration last weekend, October
13-15, with a myriad of festivities that 
engaged both young and old members of 
the campus community.
Grads returned to their alma mater to 
enjoy activities such as the Inaugural 
Parade Honoring Alumni who are World 
War II Veterans, a bonfire behind Mar
garet Morrison, the Highlander Games, 
a Homecoming Gala, and World War II 
events, among others. Although the 
rainy weather and scheduling of Home
coming during mid-semester break 
threatened attendance and enjoyment 
of events, the overall spirit of the week
end prevailed as the majority of stu
dents and graduates at the celebration 
found it worth while.The Highlander 
Games began at 10:30 am on the Cut on 
Saturday and included activities such 
as crab soccer, the five-legged race, tugof-war, and mini-football. Teams were 
composed of members of student groups, 
each of whom slugged through mud and 
rain in the hopes of victory.
This is the second year that we did it 
[the Highlander Games], said Jason 
Andraki, a junior English major and 
Highlander Games chair.
Since most of the events are strictly 
for alumni, we created an event that 
students can participate in. We also 
hoped for alumni participation, but re
gretfully, due to the rain, they didnt 
show up today, said Andraki.
Under the circumstances, Im sur
prised that as many teams showed up. 
Everyone had a good 
time, and thats the 
main purpose of this 
weekend, so I con
sider the Highlander 
Games successful, 
said Tom Gilbert, 
movie chair for the stu
dent Homecoming 
committee.
It [the Highlander 
Games] was lots of fun.
Ill probably do it again 
next year, said 
Katyana Prattipati, a 
sophomore CS major.
It [the Highlander 
Games] was satu
rated, said Chris Can
non, a rain-soaked 
sophomore CS major.
The main event of 
the weekend, the 
Homecoming Gala, took place on Satur
day night, in the new gym. It featured
cocktails, a buffet dinner, casino gam
bling, class photos, live big band music 
and dancing, and a collage of dramatic 
pieces performed by Scotch n Soda. 
CMU alumni and students gathered at
mosphere  it doesnt help the band 
any. Having a dinner in the gym isnt a 
good idea either. The casino thing was a 
good deal five years ago and it still is  
its good to lose money that isnt yours,
the event to catch up with old acquain- said Randy Sherry, an EE and math 
tances and share their thoughts about major from the class of 80.
the festivities.
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Photo Editor 
Dean of Student Affairs Mike Murphy helps start the bonfire 
behind Margaret Morrison that kicked off Homecoming.
There isnt really much of a draw 
cause people choose to attend 
Spring Carnival before Homecom
ing. When they have the new Stu
dent Center up I think that more 
people will want to see it  once 
they can hold it in a real ballroom, 
said Sherry.
It [Homecoming] was an intense 
feeling for me, said Lester Nathan, 
a math major from the class of75. 
This is my first Gala and it feels 
like you belong to a larger Univer
sity community when you attend 
an event so big.
Its a pleasure to be back and to 
see the changes that have hap
pened on the campus. The first 
thing that struck me was the uni
fication of the buildings  the 
overall look as far as construction, 
in terms of use of the same mate
rials. Its pleasing to the eye.... 
When I came on campus it was the
There are six people in my class here, same thing as when you came on camThe gym doesnt create a very good at- pus: this is how it is. But its nice to come
back and see the continuation, said 
Anita Buerger Fellenz, MM 55.
Students also enjoyed the opportunity 
to take part in Homecoming events.
Overall, its [the Homecoming cel. 
ebration] been fun. However, the rain 
was a bad factor, said Anthony Lam, a 
freshman in CIT.
This is the best deal at CMU, cause 
you can get $2,000 [in fake casino money] 
for five bucks [the fee that students had 
to pay to enter the Homecoming Gala]  
said Emil Zackroff, a freshman MCE.
The rain was hard. It wouldve been 
cool if we didnt have it [rain], but even 
with it, it was good to see students turn 
out to some of the events. The bonfire 
rocked! said Kristina Lutz, a junior IM 
major and chair of the student Homecoming committee.
I think that homecoming went really 
well overall, said Christa Bauer, a jun
ior IM major, and publicity chair for the 
student Homecoming committee.There 
werent as many students there as we 
may have wanted, but this was mainly 
due to the fact that many students went 
home over semester break, said Bauer.
Henry Evans, an engineer from the 
class of32, said, It [Homecoming] was 
a wonderful operation, I enjoyed meet
ing all the people here. And I loved 
dancing with my niece Sondra.
Talks inform campus
JOURNEYS, from page LI
about growing up in the Philip
pines and the differences he 
saw when he came to the United 
States for college. The lecture 
took place at the Student Cen
ter on Thursday.
He told a story about asking 
a professor for permission to 
leave class during the first 
snowfall because he had never 
seen snow before.
His slides showed the beauti
ful colors of the marketplaces 
and the breathtaking scenery 
of the country of his birth. 
Boyarski spoke about one pho
tograph of the island country in 
particular.
He said, This scene makes 
me so homesick. Its just so 
beautiful. Lester Manzano, a 
junior psychology major said, 
I came because Id like to see 
what [the Philippines] are like 
since Ive never been there and 
I am Filipino.
The lecture entitled China: 
The Loaded Gesture took place 
on Friday, October 20, at the 
Student Center.
It combined two prominent 
fields at CMU, computers and 
art. Ping Cao and Paul Vanouse 
presented their CD-ROM, The 
Loaded Gesture, which at
tempts to archive part of tradi
tional Chinese opera usingmodern technology.
The CD-ROM, when done, 
will focus on nine gestures 
found in Chinese opera and will 
explain their meanings, their 
political, historical and cultural 
background.
They spoke about their back
grounds in the arts and com
puters and demonstrated their 
CD-ROM for the audience. Al
though the CD-ROM is not com
plete, the audience got a taste 
of the gestures and the bilin
gual setup of the program.
S. Saualeh Waziruddin 
shared his experience of a pil
grimage to Mecca in Saudi 
Arabia. After he explained the 
activities during a pilgrimage, 
most of the talk was audiencedriven. People asked just about 
everything about Mecca and the 
Muslim religion, including the 
symbolism of parts of the cer
emonies and the treatment of 
women at pilgrimages.
Christine Hillary, a gradu
ate student in GSIA, said, I 
came to get a cultural perspec
tive from people that experi
enced that culture, to get an 
authentic rather than hypedup viewpoint. Im experiencing 
my [similarities] with my in
ternational neighbors.
Dance concerts highlight International Festival
DANCE, from page LI
CMU during the festival was 
immense, due to the number of 
Asian groups that exist on cam
pus.
The groups were really into 
the program, which made it easier
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Photo Editor 
Students perform a Phillipino dance on Saturday.
to-schedule such affairs, she said.
Along those lines Operajitaa 
Dance of Joy allowed students 
and other members of the com
munity to witness classical dance 
styles that they would not nor
mally have the chance to see.
She was very informative, di
dactic even, said Odea.
The attraction is in how she 
explained the narrative behind 
the dance. The first time I ever 
saw classical Indian dancing was 
on Indias Independence Day  I 
was in Nepal. This performance 
compared to the one I saw then, 
15 years ago*. 
The show 
was held in the 
Mall tent Sat
urday night at8 pm and de
spite the cold 
weather, the turnout 
reached high 
proportions, as 
students trick
led in to see 
Operajita per
form. The re
spect she 
showed for the 
audience was 
amazing, in 
how she ex
plained the 
story and her 
movements so everyone could un
derstand. The American audience 
wants something quick and easy, 
but this is on another level, said 
Odea.
I know Oopalie and had seen 
her perform before, so I knew 
that I wanted to bring her to 
CMU. As far as talent, I got lucky
this year, said Witchner.
Operajitas Odissi performance 
was another program that elic
ited much support from the com
munity in that it was one of the 
few dances that were part of the 
festivity
I dont think there were enough 
dance programs, said Michelle 
Vollmar, a junior creative writ
ing major. There should have 
been more in that area.These pro
grams werent something youd 
see every day, so its great that 
the festival allowed the campus 
such an opportu
nity, she said.
Many students 
agreed with Vollmar 
in that an increase 
in number of music 
oriented perfor
mances would have 
enhanced the qual
ity of the festival.
There should have 
been less lectures, 
said Michael Batz, 
junior ECE/EPP ma
jor. Its easier to get 
a grip on a culture or 
someones attitude 
from something they 
do, rather than a lec
ture. You get more 
out of seeing some
one dance, rather 
than hearing them
talk about dancing, he added.
Holding many of the events free 
of charge brought in greater num
ber of people, who were more in
clined to attend such programs 
because of the cost.
I think its cool that CMU spon
sors the festival  that we can 
see culture so easily, said Auld 
These same concerts would 
have cost a lot in New YorkI 
really appreciate that I was able 
to see them in Pittsburgh for free. 
It was a wonderful festival/ 
said Odea. This is art.
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Photo Editor 
Students use ribbon in a traditional dance.
Ihwymz Wfttegrog
Albright United 
Methodists
Sundays. 1Tam 
^Wox^Lji
Low Student 
Faculty Fares
International destinations 
Discounted domestic fares 
AYH & Eurail Passes
Experienced, 
friendly service.
4608 Winthrop St.
(off S. Craig in Oakland)
MM likeneed
another elcaise to
get ofF campus. ^
15%
G AND GET
CffF AffTRJIK S3UWS.
Hang out with your old friends. 
Take your laundry home, and 
eat some real food. Whatever 
the reason, when you get a 
Student Advantage Card, you can 
get away on Amtrak for 15 j> 
less. You wont be crammed into 
a car with five other people.
Or stuck on a bus out in the
middle of nowhere. And your 
discount is good for travel on 
almost every Amtrak train.
To get a Student Advantage 
Card call 1-800-96Clasilfe 
And to make reservations, 
call your travel agent or 
Amtrak at 1-800Cd.lCil110e 
Now stop making excuses.AMTRAK
* Fifteen percent discount good on oil rail fores except peak hour weekday MetrolinereService, muhi-ride ond government fores. On Auto Train^ fifteen percent discount is good on outo fore only. Other restrictions may apply.
FORUM TRAVEL 
romN 8 DJeN P8d Sf 
&-aN :F8: Sf 
Call 681-4099

---------------------------------------------------

Abu A-Ja-m l w-Jmuyeu ruccom imenuJgeat l CM UkaosuJ :PPdvM
pining Services should re-evaluate its purpose
Whats Up with That?
By Shiv Dewan
According to the student hand
book  which, incidentally, is 
filled with other quintessential 
examples of campus lore , Din
ing Services is committed to pro
viding the campus community 
with the most value, variety and 
flexibility in dining. Id hate to 
shatter the bubble of euphoria 
that follows this revelation, but 
Dining Services fails abysmally 
on all accounts. Ive yet to detect 
anything that can even remotely 
be misconstrued as commitment 
on their part, except for digging 
themselves out of debt.
The name Dining Services is, 
in itself, a paradox. The grub that 
is dished out is geared more to
wards a hurried feeding frenzy 
than anything resembling din
ing. And service, in is its most 
tenuous form, falls somewhere 
between completely lacking in in
terest to flippant.
Exceptions do exist, however: 
the people who worked in GSIAs 
dining commons last semester 
were friendly, although the food 
was characteristically bland and 
boarded on the inedible.
Another discerning trait of Din
ing Services is its ability to build 
castles in the sky. Take, for ex
ample, the invariably and con
tinuously delayed plans last se
mester to build an eating facility 
in Building D. Wok W Roll's move 
from Wean to the Student Center 
was hailed by Dining Services as 
bringing greater convenience to 
students. Im sure that most 
people who have classes in Wean, 
Doherty, Baker and Porter could 
barely contain their excitement 
when they heard the news.
Dining Services always seems 
to miss the mark. Perhaps im
proving the quality and variety of 
food and lowering prices might 
encourage more students to eat 
at dining facilities on campus. I 
suspect that one reason that Din
ing Services choses not to allow
Wok N* Roll to accept block meals 
was that doing so would reduce 
the number of people who eat at 
Pipers, which in turn would cause 
Dining Services profits to 
suffer.Dining Services obviously 
thinks CMU students are in
credibly obtuse, judging from the 
propaganda that they generate. 
In spite of what the brochure says, 
Im yet to be convinced that the
MEAL PUfJ
?
o\
A
M6MKarri Plotkin/Tartan Artist
new meal plans have been de
signed with the students inter
ests in mind. If Dining Services 
must ensconce their true inten
tions (God forbid we get the idea 
theyre trying to make money), 
they ought to at least shroud it 
with statements more plausible 
than the ones Ive heard so far.
The argument that it is uneconomical to keep Highlander open 
on Saturday seems contrived 
when placed in the context of 
Director of Dining Services Mark 
Hamilns statement that part of 
the $800,000 lost last year was 
due to the fact that dining facili
ties must be maintained, and full
time staff retained all year.
I wonder if it occurred to Din
ing Services to severely restrict 
hours during the summer and 
focus on the semester when the 
majority of students are on cam
pus.
Perhaps the most farcical of all 
justifications for the new meal 
plans was proffered by Mike 
Rosenthal, SDC food chair. Sup
posedly the new feeding regime 
allows Dining Services to make 
capital improvements such as the 
new chairs in Highlander. This 
ordering of priorities by Dining 
Services doesnt surprise me in 
the least. Personally, Id be more 
concerned about the food than 
the furniture.
Shiv Dewan is a senior double 
major in CivE and EPP with a 
minor in environmental engineer
ing.
Chef sizzles at CMU
YAN, from page LI
apple, chicken and steak 
quickly yet artistically. He also 
gave tips on how to impress 
guests by chopping garlic and 
ginger. The final step, bring
ing the ingredients together in 
oyster sauce and seasonings in 
the traditional Chinese wok, 
was demonstrated by two CMU 
students, who were selected 
from the audience by Yan.
Yan teased the volunteers be
cause they were a bit scared to 
cook, but later presented them
with copies of his latest cook
book.
Martin was hysterical. His 
cute little smile and jovial na
ture charmed the crowd. He 
made cooking a sensual expe
rience, said Kris Hinrichs, a 
junior graphic communications 
management major.
As well as appealing to the 
audience, Yan successfully 
taught how to cook a tasty dish 
is eight to ten minutes, using 
techniques even a college stu
dent can employ.
Epic movies perpetuate gender stereotyping
Cracking the Myth
by Suzanne Paddock
Several months ago I saw the 
movie Rob Roy. I had no idea 
before I saw it that it was going to 
be a disturbing movie, and after
wards I discovered that nobody 
seemed to think it was. What
makes it so appalling is the rape 
of Rob Roys wife. Rob Roy flees 
his home and family while the 
English, who believe he stole 
money from them, come for re
payment. But because Rob Roy is 
off hiding in the hills, the English 
cannot face Roy directly, so in
stead, they extract payment by 
destroying everything associated 
with Roy. This includes the rap
ing of Roys wife by the English 
commander.Disgustingly, the 
rape of his wife was a consequence 
of Rob Roys pride. Roy was off 
being a regular old Robin Hood, 
bringing hope to all the poor
ragged Scots, leaving behind his 
wife when he went in hiding. And 
of course, the English knew the 
best way to punish Rob Roy was 
to strike at his pride and vanity 
by taking his woman. Addi
tionally, we see little of the ef
fects of the rape on Roys wife. 
What we do see is her trying to 
hide the fact, and when it is dis
covered by Roy, we see his manly 
rage, his disgust that someone 
did this to his wife. His pride was 
hurt more, so he seeks vengeance 
that is supposedly for his wife, 
which is really for the humilia
tion he has suffered. How
ironic.As I thought more about 
the rape, I began to see a similar 
pattern in many other movies. 
Man gets a mission; man leaves 
everything behind; woman is left 
to assume responsibility for main
taining a life for herself, her chil
dren and the man, but gets raped 
or murdered; man finds out and 
kills people. The remarkable 
thing about these movies is that 
the defilement of women is often 
incidental and overlooked as long 
as it applies to the woman.
Suzanne Paddock is a senior En
glish major.
Singers, Singer/Dancers, 
Musicians & D.J.'s
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Saturday, November 4,1995 
Point Park College 
Lawrence Hall Lobby 
Auditions: 3:00 - 6:00 p.m.
Youngstown, Ohio
Sunday, November 5,1995 
Youngstown State University 
Bliss Hall - 3rd Hoor 
Auditions: 1:30 - 3:00 p.m.
POSITIONS ALSO AVAILABLE
 Technicians 
 Costumed Characters 
(Berenstain Bears)
 Costume Shop Personnel *
CALL (419) 627-2390 FOR FURTHER INFORMATION
For additional sites or 
information contact: 
Cedar Point
Live Entertainment 
Post Office Box 5006 
Sandusky, OH 44871-8006 
(419)627-2390
[HTHTAIHM1HT
S A FAST GROWING consultancy; MGI has created a reputation for 
high quality work and strong client satisfaction. We are looking for 
committed, focused and accomplished graduating seniors at Carnegie 
Mellon University with an interest in business-oriented technology 
consulting. Candidates must be willing to hit the ground running 
and relish immediate client exposure. As a Consultant with MGI, you will be 
involved in the entire consulting lifecycle, from marketing to project delivery. 
Interpersonal and analytical skills are critical. Minimum 3.4/4.0 GPA required, along 
with meaningful internships and/or part-time work experience. 
Our four year old firm concentrates on a Fortune 1000 client base at a national 
level; primarily in financial services (retail banking and P&C insurance), utilities, 
government and healthcare organizations. 
Our firm also has a fully separate ventures group which concentrates on investing in 
and growing small emerging enterprises. 
If you are interested in a challenging career in technology consulting, please come 
visit us while we are on campus for our information session on Thursday, 
November 2nd, from 7:00 to 9:00 PM at die Student Center, Room 207. 
Refreshments will be served. Also, dont forget to send in your resume for our first 
round interviews scheduled for Friday, November 3rd.
Please join us for 
our information 
session, where you 
can hear all about a 
challenging 
consulting career 
with MGI.
svecpgLrcv bw11rcv
November 2,1995 
7:00 to 9:00p.m. 
Student Center, 
Room 207
.
4rp1L yc,vu 
svLwpdrwm1
Rircrfi'ont Plaza  901 East Byrd Street, Suite 1340  Richmond, VA 23219 
Tel: 804-775-8500 Fax: 804-775-8539
Nomtiber 3,1995 
Student Centm; 
Romm 205 &206
Information
Technology
Consulting
General Management 
Consulting
Venture Investing & 
Management

---------------------------------------------------

STUDENT 
GOVERNMENT
ELECTIONS
November 1-3 from 9-5pm 
Outside of Doherty Hall 
(Student Senate, Working
Together We Get Things Done)
lurideU liy your activits fee.

---------------------------------------------------

Abu A-Ja-m l w-Jmuyeu ruccom imenuJgeat l CM UkaosuJ :PPdvd
Group discusses alcohol issues
By SUSAN WATSON
Tartan Staffwriter
With the establishment of the 
new alcohol awareness group 
Strange Brew, students have a 
resource for understanding alco
hol and itk various effects.
A lot of'people are affected by 
alcohol. Whether its a family 
member, friend or even your 
roommate, we want to provide a 
peer network for people. If you 
have a drinking problem, this is 
the place to vent it out, said 
Holly Trask, a senior psychology 
majo, founder and president of 
the organization.
Trask decided that Strange 
Brew w^s just what the campus 
needed in termSof new organiza
tions.
I began thinking about put
ting this together over the sum
mer. I know many people who 
lost their lives due to alcohol. To 
me, it is a very important social 
issue. I see a lot of college stu
dents who take their drinking 
habits for granted. IThis organi
zation is for students who want to 
find out more about alcohol, as 
well as for students who are 
screwing up their lives because of 
their drinking habits. No other 
student group is dedicated solely 
to this, said Trask.
Trask has many goals for the 
group. She said, I Want to do
programs in Residence Life, Stu
dent Affairs, as well as other 
groups to create awareness. I also 
want to help RAs. Theyre not 
counselors. They need to have an 
understanding of how alcohol af
fects their residents.
Michele Mollot, a junior psy
chology major who is the groups 
chairperson for education, also 
feels that Strange 
Brew has the po
tential to be a 
beneficial or
ganization 
to the
Francine Gemperle/Art Co-editor
campus. She said, I definitely 
think Strange Brew will educate 
students so that they can realize 
if friends or themselves need help. 
They can get an understanding of
alcohol and when they need to 
call EMS or Campus Police. Ide
ally, our ultimate hope is to get to 
where we wouldnt have to call 
EMS or the police because we 
will be so well educated.
Both Mollot andTraskfeel that 
alcohol abuse as well as irrespon
sible drinking are problems that 
plague CMU.
The main factor 
here is stress. I can 
see it in almost every 
person. Its easy to say, 
Ill just party my ass off. 
The fact is, there arent 
a lot of other things to 
do. I think the solution 
is that people need to 
become aware of other 
things to do, said Trask. 
Despite the fact that Strange 
Brew is indeed in its beginning 
stages, the prospect of the orga
nization reaching out to a multi
tude of students is evident. 
However, Trask feels that even 
if it reaches a handful of stu
dents the organizations efforts 
will be worthwhile.
She said, This is for people 
who need a place to go. Even if it 
only affects 15 or 20 people, its 
worth it. Alcohol has profound 
psychological affects on people 
who have friends or families who 
are alcoholics. Im not saying 
were Alcoholics Anonymous. We 
just want to provide an outlet for 
people.
Dining situation is hard to swallow
most popular alternatives to'onExploring CMU
by Andrew Wang
William Moran, a senior SDS 
major, expressed his feelings 
about on-campus dining with 
one phrase : Over priced, poor 
quality. Morans statement 
leads us to examine the alter
natives to on-campus food for 
the busy student?
Fraternity food is the best. 
Steve, our cook, is the best 
around, said Eric Borts, a 
sophomore ECE major.
Dining services at CMU are 
very poor. I moved off-campus 
for a number of reasons. One 
big one [reason] was to get away 
from school food, said Roger 
Walburn, a senior material sci
ence engineering major. How
ever, for many students, mov
ing off-campus or joining a fra
ternity is not an option.
For the 50 random Cut-wandering students surveyed, the
campus eating are getting food 
delivered, visiting restaurants, 
and cooking.
On average, students who lived 
on-campus went to restaurants 
or ordered delivery food 2.4 times 
a week, while students who lived 
off-campus visited restaurants or 
ordered delivery food 3.1 times a 
week.
The favorite restaurant of the 
survey group was Max & Ermas, 
a restaurant located in Shadyside 
which offers relaxed casual din
ing. Gulliftys, Eat <N Park, Sushi 
Too, China Palace, and Mad Mex 
also ranked among the favorites 
of CMU students in the survey 
group.
Only 38 percent of the group 
went to restaurants on a weekly 
basis, while many of the other 62 
percent of the group were not 
even familiar with restaurants 
in the local area.
Delivery foods were much more 
popular with the students in the 
survey group.
Eighty-four percent of the sur
vey group ordered food on a 
weekly basis. The favorite food 
delivery store of the group was 
Papa Johns, a pizza and Italian
foods delivery. Larry & Carols, 
Domino Pizza, Pizza Outlet, Pizza 
Hut, China Palace, and Silk Pa
goda also ranked among the top 
seven favorite food-delivery 
places of the survey group.
Cooking is another alternative 
to on-campus dining facilities, 
although it may not be an option 
for some of the dorm dwellers, 
due to residence hall regulations. 
On-campus students in the sur
vey group cooked an average of 
2.7 times a week, while off-campus students cooked an average 
of 4.5 times a week.
Cooking is a pain  but it 
hurts less than Morewood, said 
Matthew Cain, a sophomore ECE 
major. Sixty-eight percent of the 
students shop for groceries at 
Giant Eagle, 8 percent at Food 
Gallery, 4 percent at other gro
cery stores, and the other 12 per
cent of the students in the survey 
group do not shop for groceries.
Perhaps after the completion 
of the new Student Center com
plex next year, CMU dining ser
vices will be able to satisfy the 
dining desires of more students.
Andrew Wang is a sophomore 
ECE ICS major.
Calendrr.L 1rr4r4
At the PET Facility of the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, 
we are conducting research studying how the brain carries out 
different functions. These include how the brain makes decisions, 
how the brain controls eye movements, and how the brain recalls 
information.
We use a new and exciting technique called Positron Emission 
Tomography, or PET for short. PET takes pictures of the brain after 
administering small amounts of radioactive drugs. These pictures 
can show how different parts of the human brain work.
.-V/M :%
PET image of brain activation 
from recalling a list of words
If youre interested in volunteering for one of these research studies, 
we want to hear from you.
Participants are paid for their time. Call our Volunteer Coordinator 
for details:
Louise Smith, RN 
The PET Facility at UPMC(412) 647- 0717
Choose a dentist you can count on for life. Call the office of Michael S. Melnick, D.M.D. Youll 
meet a dentist who combines the latest in dental technology with something that cant be measured 
by a test or a machinea dedication to treating you as a human being, not just a set of teeth.
omaaLr i crndsLd
-------You Can Count on
6666666666666666666666666666666Da. vs9rF
GENERAL DENTISTRY
T.M.J. (Temporomandibular Joint) Disorders 
 Porcelain and Gold Crowns and Bridges 
 Orthodontics for Adults and Children 
 Endodontic (Root Canal) Treatment 
 Periodontal (Gum) Therapy 
 I.V. Sedation/Anesthesia 
 Cosmetic Dentistry 
 Pediatric Dentistry 
 Oral Surgery
ACCREDITED ^ PAIN PROGRAM
Mrofp
BOARD CERTIFIED-PAIN MANAGEMENT
Fellow-Academy of General Dentistry 
Diplomate-American Academy of Pain Management 
Master-Academy of General Dentistry 
Fellow-International College of Craniomandibular Orthopedics 
Fellow-Academy of Dentistry International 
Fellow-Piene Fauchard Academy
MICHAEL S. MELNICK
D.M.D., M.A.G.D.
AND ASSOCIATES 
The Park Plaza Suite 207 
128 North Craig Street 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
(412) 688-9000 OR (412) 687-8888
(800) 732-7645 A Carnegie Mellon Graduate with a
 An Outpatient Comprehensive 
Multidisciplinary Pain Treatment Center 
Accredited by the American Academy of 
Pain Management
 Highest Standards for Infection Control 
& SterilizationOffice Inspected Thru 
Voluntary OSHA Compliance Program
 Nitrous Oxide Sedation
 I.V. Conscious Sedation Under Personal 
Supervision of a Hospital Trained 
Anesthesiologist
 Medical StaffShadyside Hospital
Tradition of Excellence
Day and Evening Hours by Appointment
 Security Building  Indoor Valet Parking
 Most Insurance Plans Accepted
Mastercard, Visa, Discover, Novus, American Express Accepted. Interest-free payment plans available.Photo by Jonas  1995 Michael S. Melnick, D.M.D.

---------------------------------------------------

<EM
TUE ALIENS STILL HAVENT SHOWN UP.' VW KT ARE WE GOING TD DO 1WE GOT TD TURN IN MS LEAF COLLECTION TOMORROW.'
I IL BET THOSE DUtAB ALIENS GV BACK TO THEIR PLANET AND PROCRASTINATED.' IlL BET THEY HAVE NO RESPECT FOR. DEADLINES/
IF THETRE NOT \ HERE IN RVE 
I MINUTES. I'M NOT HANDING OVER WE
THE TEACHER DIDHT BELIEVE MX LEAVES WERE FROM AN AUEN PLANET.
SHE SAID IT WAS OBVIOUS I DID THE WHOLE THING LAST NIGHT AND I MAOE
SHE JUST WOW ADMIT IT WAS A POINTLESS PROJECT.WHO CARES ACUT LEAVES?/'
I BELIEVE THATS POISON 
SUMAC VOU'RE. HOLDING.
'/it
DILBERT  by Scott Adams
(i WONDER IF j 
( Vt\ WEARING 
( ENOUGH j 
(JFRAGRANCE^)
AtHrk
WELCOME TO HEAVEN,
LISTER DOGBERT.
^ J8%
WOW, IT LOOKS 
LIKE YOU GUYS
> RELAXED YOUR 
STANDARDS'
DOGS ARE AUTOMATIC. 
NO fAATTER 60HAT YOU 
DO, THERE'S ALWAYS 
A PLACE IN HEAVEN FOP, 
EVERY LITTLE DOG.
I'D LIKE THAT 
BACK NOW,
IF YOU DON'T 
^AIND!!WHAT KIND OF 
DISTANCE CAN 
YOU GET WITH 
THESE LITTLE 
"FRISBEES"?
DOGBERT, YOUR MISSION 
IS TO TELL ANY CO-WORKER 
THAT HER PERFUME IS 
KILLING US. WEAR THIS 
GAS /AASK.
DID YOU HEAR THE 30KE 
ABOUT THE WO/AAN WHO 
STANK LIKE A 
HOG RENDERING 
PLANT?
ALSTE.R DOGBERT, WE.VE 
DECIDED TO SEND YOU BACK. 
TO EARTH AS AN ANGEL.
YOUR MISSION IS TO 
HELP PEOPLE IN NEED. 
COE HAVE GIVEN YOU 
SPCIAL (WELL BE 
P0WER5. I HATCHING
(s
I HAVE FAILED IN AVY 
ATTEMPT TO SUBTLY 
TELL YOU THAT YOUR 
PERFUANE IS KILLING 
PEOPLE. I 601LLTRY 
A DIRECT APPROACH )
: O
!! ^OU 
clnVFLL KD
f SHOULD I GWElT 
( VOU CPRT I1ARE YOU SAYING THAT 
YOU'RE AN ANGEL NOW? 
AND YOU HAVE SPECIAL 
POWERS TO HELP PEOPLE
J
EXACTLY. I INSTINCTIVELY 
KNOW COHAT PEOPLE 
COANT AND I CAN 
GIVE IT TO THEAA WITH 
A SNAP OF THE PALO.

---------------------------------------------------

BY HIROMI HA5EGAWASHE MUST BE. 
M1SS1MG* YOU 
A LOT, HA HA HA..
DON'T YOU WANT 
TO GET YOUR 
COW SACK?So PARIS WENT TO 
"THE TOURNAMENT.
Er^TftA.r<ce->
ALL RIGHT THEN. 
I'LL F16HT YOU
VMHOS THAT 
HAN DEIPHO60S 
IS. SPEAKING
wrm?
/ I'M N 
I NOT SURE, 
BUT HE 
KINDA 
LOOKS 
, COTE. /L
DO You /L 
KNOW HIM Yh 
CASANDRA? k
( NO... H
! BUT FOR 
SOME ' 
REASON 
HE LOOKS 
SOMEWHAT 
FAMILIAR.
V TO ME.
7 I'LL MAKE HIM 
A LAU^HINti STOCK 
TD THE CROWD.'
ITo 6e cQH-nnusF
LlfElM
Hfei-u
WS ^ br\rrr 
GRoeM' nu
TWt CLASS Roo^*i S ARE &JefiCROuJS>&D AfJOTHt TEACWEC5 
yftftE UMOfeBOftiO.' J
Wuy OOtS AMERICAI7/^ s/b ANc1GOUR SCHOOLS 
ACE FALLING
ByBAlp h
Sfehi, SfeAL !
Micro fceXHt Cl* i6 P-gnVLT<fmr/iV^E HAvJETO IEARnj TEXT Boots CEMSoCEf so A? TO MOV 0PFEM9 THE 6e.tNvr\esT Right-w\fj& chp-vstiakj SemsiBiutves ;
E E7/Mb /I^ OYfsW b^IrasY CUTTING SCH00L-ftE6ft)cFAST
yAotABsi Foe lag eooA: OC CuTTIM & A'O TO fciOS / WITH 9l?ABlLiTie$ /
AMO EPUCAToiOAU FomOi^G fcEEPS GETTING COT/ >
dom' v woaey. ay tme time you a*>o uooe. wme Buooies 
nAoy odl or wMcha Dmaoo/hWt'U H AvJ wjQgt Pai^OM
Ctu-S TdM/l atJO etaijMTOCO.
WHW THE?/? A 
JAPANESE SEETL?/ L, iTHOuiHf WE ifWYct> FjRThSE l^iT WEEl^,
AeEM'T VOE kO7haDDf 4YytLHw e,L,pw G2
wupl ae Goi^G To &C.00J op, aoo
fgpm0 Another Rand om
Change of Scenery
by Robert Slater
/'ifoR.RV, QOF-SnnNUAiKe.' 0c,p
Little miaJpA^e Pipnt 
V FTxc ME AT All/
np ir PlPNT WORK, 
L,j 3e89 jUU L9r,E0 
h 7 3 v9.(
SHMPAP/
Tfr^ m/
gSpt Wha, WKfl,,, Whe,
M k7O. rgTIP
wuirts yooft 
T)|AU)6UE7
/xl jusr tEyVE 
THli FoK WHEW mr E 
fy,nsLmr3y66Bh
CHfooS^<
1 PoMt suPpo5E VE 
>JT?VU<MjoT TVMSa ImoiT drowned 
you bv>Aname;

---------------------------------------------------

I HAVE HOMOKE LINKS 
10 This WORLD.
N/OW I HAVE 
Mo Voum
R6A50M 10 
FEAR DEATH. //)?
SOMEBOPY BETTER PO ^ 
SOMETHING- ABOUT TH\$l 
XT'5 TICKING HE OFFf
THIS HAPPENS EVERYPAYl 
I'LL BE LATE FOR WORK * _ AG.MTJI
F nr, vew
DEATH WltL 
WOT ALLOW 
ME TO REST 
IN PEACE.
-MOT UNTILSTUPIP GIRAFFES!
I SEVER THE HEAD OF 
OUR HATED ENEMY, 
ff|M YdSHlN f
CEWEML
J WNNA GO HOME! Z 
WANNA GO HOME' PLEASE 
WEE ME W. MINAPPEP,'
Perso nralJuyiag htd 
c^W Youp cxLjgYjxpVIYWEgM
VIVEME F/FTYGRAN OR 
ELSE YOU-tt A/EVEP SEE 
THE G/RL A4AIM. :-&/,{&!m.VMfW'.'JWiT
(POOR K/ONAPPER.Qbtwri
ELIZABETH, WE'RE HOME 
FROM THE CPU/SE! J/uf, ?
OH A/0! "BURGLARS STOLE 
ALL OUR STUFF/ J~
1 COMS/PER/M k/E 0/OV7 
HAVE A SACK OOORI [Z'M //OrSURPR/SE 
h/HATlS TWS?j ~]nZZ
<fi 00D tvENING, mss ydeParksum
FVs  i C. ClFYOUSAY SO. A>.
> /f^\PACKAC>E ARRIVED FORIl ir** \ \ vnu ' 11
fdH Gooor, Innsid j eLvg Snpor 
fiETTiNC hul! ah! *r clock,
tFu mSnmt'
P1SODE 6 
DA NIEL YAUGERFr/l FJTG /JR Ari JRiis 
WE^NY EVONSVU- E^OH 4^. 
Ari rsai iFJar :JAa&,
OK, TH/S// HOib 
YOU 'T/LL THEY ,
PAY THE I------i
RANSOM!J1 ONLY OUR CONCEPT OF TIME MAKES IT POSSIBLE FOR US TO SPEAK OF THE DAY OF JUDGEMENT BY THAT NAME;
IH REALITY IT ISA SUMMARY 
COURT IH PERFETUAL SESSION. " 
________________-FRANZ KAFKA
ThttthSARfcL-WHiMpfyyypStM
yes! Th was created by routes durihcTHf E**LY fAKT CF g,o PF--^v aLg Cuv muzgLhos J| BY A SECRET HOLY OR HER BE FORE IT COULP t R USED! THEY COULD NOT DESTROY XT, SO THEY fSszLgu 'ivg/muS vucoILuhs C/g, u mnMl 
i , ykE sos/mugos g,o/hrw Yf :- "fGDPAJ mns-rrn I  yfc mnLSs mnMghnS /g.1A * VW Jjf IT DISAPPEARED 
dif SHORTLY thereafter,
fi LMg/S mv ch/oMs
Lf EOUND IT IN A J
BMl hL/Mos m,Lhm,d
VH YES! 81IT NOT JUST ANY CLOCK ! A PASTOR FRIEND 0FH1NE, WHO HAPPENS TO DAULE IH ARCHAEOLOOY,mu,o umhnvv g,/v vzSoM,sPIECE AND TOLI ME OF IT. ACCORPINO TO HY Oh/N RESEARCH THIS CLOCK ISA DEVI Ci OF UNHOLY POWER, CREATED TO BHIHO ABOUT TUEf IIIEND OF l/l)h J
OPshSsd wZarU
rmx'o n,w 
JHE END OF THE WORLD?
I /t/AA/VA GO HOME/
ET ME GO MR. KlHAPPER
\PLEASE!{.
HEY, WHY'RE YOU OOR///G ^ATMEUE/kb? (------
SO YOU BELIEVE^ IN THIS SUPER- NATURAL STUFF?. {DON'T YOU A CsRAFR cYW UY VOV4 {nJ! i!a ZlB M-jYVNY' 
//o...MA-h CxLNWg cYW UY ^.WWV EYL NW^UVEg WEYf j
AYW !r sTs/ {nJ! EYL' SHE'S bEMEAJTEb I TEH YA,
Ti xei 2,T CieiA RNiA 
TEGC iIEMxLiGCOx LexNi 
U,R2V VSeI TC, YIib Yyt,v 
HER KlbNAPPER.. .ELIZABETH, 
HOW DID TVU ESCAPE FROM 
THAT CRUEL VIC/OUS MAN?
I ATE HIM -MPH/
aEY $Alt> SHE 
HATES H/M"VI-------1SU bEMENTEh!
r\iMieoC> C/'iJTii-Uiii |JSFfccrii,t> Ul< fufatl sfo : K^'T-Ai^urx cagt.
THIS DoM/fJGii/JG AsyW7E,^ 'AT. |M eiTiU rj oc.
L,w orLB. 19 fco:
Unft*4 T^Vc. X v:fii C.  *VWI ^lot
PiZiHE AL
u-vx ftft-T ^H-.."D0uJkI Siln 
TOA/, Sia, tmet/L 
HA SoHEotJe You*.
[MEBMfUL
|j*A RfCT.P - ?rtiFoaf iD.
rt<(f CUWn TM*VVt Gf^U /o/i 3/
WHASSAMATte-i?! (U\MR.oft TMftt crrf u/Aifj'r DBkV) 
M<>U6H po/i ^/ou U/R.l<ikI ou
' VJ}A0I6 s-t^TI/U McXO, tito? y
SiMC yt'ftf. 1(J eahrt &0 toufc THE Oi-P
Avuu ^I"Hcs. I HEftC. PBMouiflOfJ \$> 6wjot/, 
OW, W0u3? ------k;
fiT IO Wo*y. ^EFtidf 
I \0U A
V &EATlpfc(_______^
<r
inf r!. 
h,1,k /urx /
^lrsvl
3)6 too. ro14NqL/H &ATvT8 LGW&9t 
THftT I LAvp 0Pir TJo 'iCAfii, Ao!
^yH HAv/fy'T U7nC yM(2. 
v 'TOWOH |<c.
1
\i TH& 
pfty;U r 
SATW*.

---------------------------------------------------

DIVERSIONS
jocpfu PFh Tggpu I Abu A-Ja-mh w-Jmuyeu ruccom imenuJgeath OeaagspJybh Oummgtcn-me- CM UkaosuJ :PPd
Letter scars classic novel
Ryan Rhoades/Tartan Artist
To Die For defies categorization
By DAVID KORAN
Tartan Staffwriter
It seems like I always get the 
weird movies to review. Like 
many that I have previously 
reviewed this year, To Die For 
ranks with this group of flicks 
that fall into no specific cat
egory or genre.
What: To Die For 
Director: Gus Van Sant 
Company: Colombia Pictures
I walked away after the final 
credits (which are accompa
nied ironically by Donovans 
Season of The Witch) saying 
that the best quality, and the 
most pervasive one, was the 
fact that.it was a dark movie.
The dark comedy side arises 
in much the same garish fash
ion used in Harold and Maude, 
another morbid semi-dramacomedy. This movie, however, 
has hit a little low of its lofty 
goal even when in hindsight, it 
is among the few in recent 
times.
Nicole Kidman {Dead Calm,
Batman Forever) stars as 
Suzanne Stone Moretto, the over 
ambitious, and borderline psy
chotic media-news-star-wannabe 
in a small Vermont town. Matt 
Dillon (The Outsiders, Singles) 
plays her over-traditional hus
band Larry who lavishes her with 
affection but meets a rather un
timely end midway through the 
film. Included in the cast are three 
newcomers, most notably Joaquin 
Phoenix, who plays the rather 
disenchanted school-boy-toy of 
Suzanne, Jimmy.
As the movie progresses though 
its documentary-like cinematog
raphy, the story begins to wind 
itself inevitably around the in
termingling of the lives of 
Suzanne, Larry, and Jimmy, and 
thus, enter the plot... a murderer 
for hire, but with a kinky twist.
As the film rolls through its 
first twenty to thirty minutes, 
you would get the impression, 
however strange it may seem, 
that the whole movie is based on 
interviews from various family 
members. However, once the 
stage is set with the cleverly de
vised background story, from the
writing team of Gus Van Sant 
(also directing), Buck Henry 
(Saturday Night Live  way 
back, when it was actually 
funny), and Joyce Maynard 
(the original novelist), the in
terplay between all of the char
acters rises to a fevered pitch, 
only to be summed up rather 
succinctly in the last 10 min
utes of the film.
This is not a thriller, iior a 
drama, nor a comedy, but just 
a dark film. The darkness of 
the film is enhanced by com
poser Danny Elfman, who with 
many other films (Beetlejuice, 
Batman, Forbidden Zone), 
reigns as the king supreme of 
dark and quirky movie themes. 
Gus Van Sants directing {My 
Own Private Idaho, Even Cow
girls Get the Blues), though, 
still needs a little polishing, 
since many times during the 
film, I felt as if the characters 
needed a little nudge to get the 
lines out of their mouths. But, 
for a simple weekend trip to a 
theater before the Thanksgiving&nd Christmas movie rush, 
this a worth a look-see.
By LAUREN HEINZ
Tartan Editor-in-Chief.
It was hard not to laugh when 
Freely Adapted from the Novel 
by Nathaniel Hawthorne ap
peared with the opening credits, 
but after the seeing the movie, I 
think Not Even Close to the 
Novel... would have been a more 
fitting disclaimer for The Scarlet 
Letter.
What: The Scarlett Letter 
Director: Roland Joffe 
Company: Disney
Starring Demi Moore, Gary 
Oldman and Robert Duvall, The 
Scarlet Letter bares little resem
blance to the 19th century novel 
about Hester Prynne and her 
badge of shame  in fact, its a 
wonder they even called this 
movie The Scarlet Letter since 
it follows none of Hawthornes 
original plot.
Hollywoods Scarlet Letter im
provises bands of angry Indians, 
crazy witches, mute servants and 
symbolic red birds, and while it 
has been several years since I 
had to read the book, I dont re
member any of these trinkets 
working their way into 
Hawthornes old English prose.
Moore {Now and Then, Disclo
sure, A Few Good Men) plays 
Hester Prynne, a woman who has 
sailed to the New World to get 
established before her not-so-nice 
husband comes over. But in the 
puritanical and conservative new 
colony, Prynnes independent 
nature (she lives by the ocean, 
buys her own servants, and even 
reads) becomes the talk of, the 
town.
The trouble begins when 
Prynne, while working in her 
garden, sees a little red bird (I 
think the bird represents the 
temptations of Satan) perched on 
her fence which she follows into 
the woods . She goes further and 
further in until she comes to a 
stream where a naked Gary 
Oldm an {Immortal Beloved, True 
Romance,Sid and Nancy) is swim
ming. She watches him for a while 
until her servants start calling
for her because some of the towns 
elders have arrived to take her to 
church.
Well, Prynne is in no condition 
for church  her hair is down 
and shes wearing a crown of flow
ers  so the elders go on without 
her and she takes her own car
riage.
Shes flying about Mach 10 
through the woods when she gets 
stuck in the mud and a soggy 
Gary Oldman (Arthur Dimmesdale) comes riding up. He is
cries at night because she is locked 
away. The character Oldman 
plays is charming at times be
cause of his bashful, yet passion
ate character but it is not 
Dimmesdale, and it is definitely 
not what Hawthorne intended.
Duvall {Something to Talk 
About, The Paper, The Godfather) 
plays Prynnes husband, who is 
said to have been killed when the 
boat he is coming on is attacked 
by Indians.
When Prynne hears the news
Demi IVIoore plays Hester Prynne in The Scarlet Letter.
very charmingandhandsome, but 
cant get her carriage out. Yet it is 
love at first sight and he gives her 
a lift to church. But when she sits 
down at the pew she discovers 
that Dimmesdale is the preacher! 
After avoiding each other and 
then confessingtheir love for each 
other, Prynne and Dimmesdale 
finally get together and she gets 
pregnant. The saga begins.
But the movie is too corny to be 
a saga  it is over-dramatic, the 
dialogue in parts is ridiculous 
and it just doesnt convey the 
danger and guilt of Hawthornes 
novel. I thought Roland Joffe, who 
directed The Killing Fields, would 
have done better with this movie, 
or at least made it more accurate. 
The actual red A pinned to 
Hesters chest is such a minimal 
part of the movie  it looks like a 
varsity letter and is the focus of 
the .movie for about five minutes. 
Joffe makes Dimmesdale, who is 
a coward in the book, this gallant 
leading man who stays by 
Hesters side, tries to see her ev
ery day when shes in jail, and
she is thrilled  he used to beat 
her  and she feels less guilty 
about her love for Dimmesdale. 
But it turns out that her husband 
wasnt killed but has been taken 
captive by the Indians and is liv
ing deep in the forest. Then there 
is this weird part where you real
ize her husband is crazy because 
he is prancing' around a large 
bonfire with a deer carcass on his 
head. But anyway, Mr. Prynne is 
released by the Indians and then 
finds his wife, acts all freaky and 
shaves his head and swears to 
kill whoever it is that made her 
pregnant.
Well, then theres a giant witch 
hunt and the elders are all bent 
out of shape and think Satans to 
blame ... its all very silly. At the 
end of the movie, Prynne is just 
about to get hung when all of the 
Indians (some are friends with 
Dimmesdale) attack the colony 
and Prynne and Dimmesdale es
cape with Pearle (their daughter) 
and live happily ever after. Not 
quite like the book, eh? Not even 
close.
Young stars make Now and Then fine film
By GRETEL T. GAAL
Tartan Staffwriter
Beware boys  Now and Then is as 
much of a chick flick as the TV pre
views indicate. If you have serious prob
lems with birthing scenes and 12-yearold girls discussing sex, leave this movie 
!for the girls night out group.
What: Now and Then 
Director: Lesli Linka Glatter 
Company: New Line Cinema
However, if you can open your minds
like I know the whole story before I even 
get to the theater. However, I do like to 
feel as though I have a definite idea of 
who the stars of the movie are. Melanie 
Griffith,. Demi Moore, Rosie ODonnell 
and Rita Wilson (Tom Hanks wife) are 
portrayed in the previews as crucial parts 
of this film. Do you think roughly 15 
minutes of screen time  total  can 
even begin to go deeper than the surface 
of the individual personalities of four 
women who havent been together in ten 
years? I didnt either, and this is where 
the movie falls short. Although we get 
excellent insight into who these women
Stars of Now and Then (left to right) Gaby Hoffman, Christina Ricci, Thora Birch, and 
Ashleigh Aston IVIoore, portray the childhood memories of Hollywoods leading ladies.
and at least pretend to enjoy what turns 
out to be a fuzzily poignant coming-ofage movie, take your girlfriends or your 
Moms for some major brownie points.
In all seriousness, this really is a film 
|eared towards women, and while it 
borders on clich a few too many times, 
there are some fresh viewpoints and 
Mce performances by the young actresses11 the film which I really responded to. 
The main problem I had with this movie 
hasnt with the content, but with how 
usleading the previews are.
I am not one to complain if a preview 
teeps me guessing; in fact, I hate to feel
were at the age of 12 in the flashback 
section, which makes up the majority of 
the story, I hardly knew who they were 
at all in the present, and exactly how 
they had changed since their childhood 
days in the small Indiana town where 
they grew up.
The major flaw in this movie is that we 
are transported between decades, but 
the only characters we know are the 
girls from 1970 and not the women 
theyve become, and these women are 
the ones that are portrayed as the stars 
of the movie in the previews.
The basic plot of the movie is that the
four big stars mentioned above made a 
pact when they were 12 that they would 
all go home again if they needed each 
other (anyone read IT?).
Enter the reminiscings of Demi Moore, 
who narrates the backstory at intervals. 
The young actresses really are the stars 
of this film; Christina Ricci {Casper), 
Thora Birch {Clear and Present Dan
ger), Gaby Hoffman {Sleepless in Se
attle) and newcomer Ashleigh Aston 
Moore play the young counterparts of 
ODonnell, Griffith, Moore and Wilson, 
respectively. It is through them that the 
audience can really respond to what the 
movie is meant to be: a funny, interest
ing and sometimes poignant coming-ofage story. I cant say that there is a 
standout amongst these actresses, be
cause they all play their roles very well. 
However, take note of Hoffmans voice; 
this was excellent casting for, at times, 
her voice almost uncannily resembles 
Moores.
Although its been referred to as a 
Stand By Me for girls, Now and Then 
lacks the formers power and strong 
plotline; it simply cannot be found an 
equal. But that doesnt mean this movie 
isnt enjoyable.
Though brief, supporting roles played 
by Cloris Leachman, Janeane Garofolo 
{Reality Bites), Bonnie Hunt {Only You), 
Lolita Davidovich and Brendan Frasier 
add a lot of flavor and fun to the movie, 
with Hunt and Leachman as particular 
standouts.
So, though this movie has flaws (in one 
scene, for example, a microphone is vis
ible at the top of the screen), it is worth 
seeing. Again, I feel women, especially 
those who grew up during the late 60s 
and early 70s, are the target audience, 
but the story does not shut out the male 
population. Now and Then is a movie 
most anyone can enjoy. However, if you 
expect to see a lot of the big names in 
this movie, you can also expect to be 
disappointed.
Get Shorty lacks cohesive 
humor, interesting style
By APRIL C. MOATE
Tartan Staffwriter
Based on the novel by Elmore 
Leonard, Get Shorty is the story of 
what happens when the glamorous 
world of Hollywood and the seedy 
underground of criminals meet. The 
result is much less interesting than 
one would expect.
What: Get Shorty 
Director: Barry Sonnenfeld 
Company: Metro Goldwyn Mayer
The story begins with Chili Palmer, 
who is played by John Travolta. He is 
a Miami debt collector who is sent by 
the mob to collect a large sum of 
money from Harry Zimm (Gene Hack
man), a film producer of B-movie hor
ror flicks.
Instead of trying to get the money, 
however, Chili ends up pitching him 
his idea for a movie. The story is 
about a loan shark who is looking for 
a dry cleaner that faked his death and 
made off with a big chunk of mob 
money.
The only thing missing is the end
ing. As it turns out, the story is true 
and it progresses towards finding an 
ending as Get Shorty progresses to
wards its own ending.
The movie is directed by Barry 
Sonnenfeld, who is best known for his 
Addams Family movies. I have not 
read the book by Leonard, but from 
what I hear, it is supposed to be quite 
good and Leonard has been an influ
ence on many Hollywood directors, 
including Quentin Tarantino. Some
where b etween the novel and the film, 
however, some things must have got
ten lost.
Things like humor, imagination,
and originality. The movie simply isnt 
funny and many of the dialogue strains 
that are supposed to be witty and 
interesting fall completely flat and 
add nothing to the characters.
The movie is so predictable that from 
the beginning I was bored stiff be
cause I already knew everything that 
was going to happen and I just wanted 
to get it over with. Rene Russo is 
miscast as a star of many of Zimms 
movies and DeVito is not in the movie 
long enough for us to find out about his 
character... John Travolta gives as good 
a performance as he can considering 
what he was given to work with, which 
isnt much.
His character is very shallow and 
while that worked well for him in Pulp 
Fiction, it doesnt in Get Shorty be
cause the movie so desperately needs 
a round character, yet lacks one en
tirely.
The similarities to Pulp Fiction ex
tend beyond this. While the novel Get 
Shorty was written long before Pulp 
Fiction was made, Get Shorty re
sembles Pulp Fiction stylistically to 
the point that I had to wonder if they 
were either trying to make a spoof of 
Pulp Fiction, or if they were seriously 
trying to copy its style and capitalize 
on its success.
Elmore Leonards novels may have 
been an influence on Quentin 
Tarantinos movies, but it is clear that 
Pulp Fictions style was an influence 
on Get Shorty.
Whatever the directors intentions, 
he fails to make a movie that adds 
anything to the genre of crime or com
edy. Movies like Pulp Fiction and The 
Player succeed in this way and I would 
recommend renting one of those mov
ies rather than going to see Get Shorty 
in the theater.

---------------------------------------------------

vTUAbu A-Ja-m l w-Jmuyeu ruccom imenuJgeat l CM UkaosuJ :PPd
Complete Session For Only.
(save over }30).
STATISTICALCOMPUTERSPECIALIST
W.L. Gore & Associates, Inc., a dynamic, progressive 
organization that encourages innovation and entrepreneurial 
thinking, is in need of a statistical computing associate for our 
Delaware/Maryland cluster. This associate will be a corporate 
resource to continue to develop and enhance the statistical 
computing environment for our technical teams. Responsibilities 
include SAS installation, development, maintenance, pro
gramming and training.
Requirements include an M.S. in Statistics, two years expe
rience supporting and programming SAS in a LAN environ
ment and experience with DOS and Windows configuration 
and operation. The successful candidate will also have expe
rience developing and delivering user training and documen
tation as well as strong communication skills. A B.S. in engi
neering or the physical sciences is a plus.
Qualified applicants, please send or fax your resume to:
W.L. Gore & Associates, Inc.
3aamY :0IBOrL 
ONUN VoR PCF0 
EuK-Jxh '9 :PI:>8PCF0 
D-RY 1MFC2 CPC8>:d0
Cm for i FREE "Stvdext Tr. bis" mgazixe!
Council
CIEE: Council on International Educational Exchange
Internet: http://www.ciee.org/cts/ctshome.htm 
118 Meyran Ave, Pittsburgh, PA 15213_____________683-1881
classified
THE TARTAN 
268-2111
Who: Mercy River 
What: BOG
Label: real records/W.A.R. ?
Music drowns in repetition
By NEEL DONNELLY
Tartan Staffwriter
For a band that often draws 
comparisons to the legendary 
Minutemen, Kepone lacks the 
one thing that made the Min
utemen so special: a sense of 
raw, imperfect power.
Who: Kepone 
What: Skin
Label: Quarterstick Records
Kepone seems at times 
so caught up in precision 
that the kind of small er
rors that define tfye heart 
and soul of punk rock are 
drowned by flawlessness.
The Richmond, Virginia 
based bands second fulllength release, Skin, is full 
of moments that could be 
exciting if they contained 
any spontaneity. Instead, 
Kepone is weighed down 
by monotonous riffs that 
seem to last for hours, 
keeping the band from 
achieving anything more 
than a reiteration of tired, 
metal-head chops.
The vocal harmonies by 
bassist Michael Bishop 
and Tim Harriss on the 
albums first cut, Knife 
thrower, immediately call to 
mind the bland drone of Alice 
in Chains, and the songs re
petitive two-chord main riff 
doesnt make things any more 
exciting. Velveteen relies on
a chugging, continual guitar and 
screeching vocals to keep it mov
ing, and both only end up making 
the song seem trite. A compli
mentary bass-and-guitar duo 
highlight the mopey Blue-Devil, 
but again Kepone is haunted by 
the specter of redundancy. This 
tune is weighed down by a onenote vocal melody, and the nearly 
unchanging guitar part suggests 
that this song could have easily 
been about two minutes shorter.
Stay Down is another exerPhoto courtesy Quarter stick records 
Its hard to tell which one is Ke, and which 
one is Pone, but somehow, this is Kepone.
rise in stale reiteration that 
breaks no new ground. The 
albums only distinguishing track 
is Eds Sad Party, and thats 
probably because two-thirds of 
the band stays out of the song for
the first minute. Drummer Ed 
Trask pounds the skins furi
ously by himself, but his spot
light is quickly usurped by 
Bishop and Harriss. Idiot Ball 
Drop starts off with a soft, 
gentle piano but is soon inter
rupted by muffled, uninspired 
screaming and squealing. Bom
bastic metal riffs dominate 
Superfucker, so much so that 
by the songs end I couldnt 
cleanse my mind of images of 
leather pants and pyro
technics. Prisoners exists 
purely as a vehicle for 
Bishops cliched howling, 
and Left Eskimo is yet 
another unimaginative, 
one-chord disaster. The 
records last song, Thin 
Solution, again breaks no 
new ground. Plagued by 
the same mindless repeti
tion that infests the rest of 
this album, it seems full of 
pseudo-anger and pro
cessed vitriol.
Skin could be a powerful 
record, if it were executed 
properly. Unfortunately, 
Kepone seems to be con
tent with the mediocrity 
exhibited on its latest re
lease. Droning vocals, suf
focating precision, and rep
etitious musical sty-lings 
keep this album from succeed
ing on any noticeable level. The 
anger that rings true in the 
classics of the Minutemen 
merely rings hollow when at
tempted by Kepone.
 real records/W.A.R.?
Glamour Shots.
Yes you can!
Picture the 
Wes
COMPUTERS
Macintosh computer for sale. Com
plete system including printer only 
$499. Call Chris at 1-800-665-4395 ext. 
9022.
HOUSING
Squirrel Hill House 1 Irg BR w/ 
balcony, male, 275/mnth, easy walk to 
CMU, Bartlett St, 422-7670.
North Oakland. 2 BR Apt w/w carpet, 
A/C, parking available short term lease 
accepted. 495 + electric 362-2049. Ask 
for Dianne or Virginia.
Free travel! Spring Break '96! Earn 
$$$$ Simply organize a group of friends 
and travel free! Party with the best in 
Jamaica, Cancn, Bahamas, Florida, 
Padre. Guaranteed lowest prices in the 
country! Call for free information 
packet! Sunsplash tours! 1-800-426- 
7710.
Excellent extra income now. Envelope 
stuffing $600-$800 every week. Free 
details: SASE to International Inc. 1375 
Coney Island Ave., Brooklyn, New York 
11230.
Men/women earn $480 weekly 
assembling circuit boards/electronic 
components at home. Experience 
unnecessary, will train. Immediate 
openings your local area. CaII 1 -520-680- 
4647 ext. Cl 798.
Software Engineer strong Ul develop
ment background. C++, OWL, OOD. 
Prefer experience with DSP algorithms. 
Work from home. Salary negotiable.
788-2092.
MISC
Townsend Booksellers offers a Free On
line Search Service for out-of-print books. 
Always buying and selling fine used, rare 
and scholarly books in all fields. Near 
campus at 4612 Henry St. (off S. Craig) 
Mon.-Sat. 11-6, Sun. 1-5. Phone412- 
682-8030 e-mail: 
townsend@interloc.com.
Attention students. Scholarships 
available to all! Deadlines occur through
out the year. $99 Guaranteed. Call now 
for more information. 412-788-2935.
Free financial aid! Over $6 billion in 
private sector grants & scholarships is 
now available. All students are eligible 
regardless of grades, income, or parent's 
income. Let us help. Call student 
Financial Services: 1-800-263-6495 ext. 
F52361.
RESUME SERVICES
Complete word processing services: 
Transcription reports, term papers, 
thesis, resumes  quick, convenient, 
professional. For more information call: 
242-7628
SERVICES
Lose weight with doctor recommend! 
herbal and nutritional programseasy, 
safe, & comfortable. I dropped 6 dress 
sizes in 8 weeks, without drugs, exercise, 
or crazy diets! Kelly at 429-5894.
ALEX'S FLOWERS for romance, 
birthday, anniversary, platonic and 
more. 687-4128 DELIVERY 687-ALEX. 
Group discounts and Greek discounts.
jRAVEL
No need to pay high airfares to Asia, 
Europe, and Central/South America. 
Call Mercur-Lombardo Travel Agency & 
412-751-0300 or 1-800-367-6582 for 
the best prices. Serving the traveling 
public or over 45 years.
Travel free for Spring Break '96. 
Cancn, Bahamas, S. Padre, & Florida. 
Form a group of 15 & travel free + earn 
$$$$. Food & drinks included. 800- 
657-4048.
An Equal Opportunity Employer
NEW YORK $80 BOSTON $89PHILADELPHIA 39 ORLANDO 79MIAMI 99 SEATTLE 178LOS ANGELES 178 HONOLULU 347
Fares are STUDENT fares, from Pittsburgh, each way based on a round 
trip purchase. International Student ID may be reauired. Taxes & 
surcharges are NOT included. Fares may change without notice.
------harnIRou FREE Portrait Holiday Cards
With a H795 Complete Session!
Enjoy the fun of Clamour Shots and create the perfect Christmas gifts that only you can give. Plus, receive three FREE specially 
designed oversized portrait greeting cards {$10 value). Simply insert up to a 5x7 portrait, and its beautifully framed and ready 
i for giving. You'll have a great time, look beautiful, and love your portraits - guaranteedI
I
Call Today! Ross Park Mall  369-7827 Century III Mall  653-8743 s
Monroeville Mall *373-8029 or 1-800-C-L-A-M-0-U-R Shots !I 
V,___ Satisfaction Guaranteed  Expires November 4, 1995  Portraits Additional 
An Exciting Session Includes: 
Complimentary Makeover & Haiistyling 
 4 Wardrobe and Accessory Changes 
 High Fashion Photo Session With 16 Separate Poses 
..........7~^View Your Video Proofs Instantlyll ~-------------
GET A LIFE GET HERBALIFE
Make MoneyLose Weight 
International Company 15 Years in Business
CALL NOW 
412-882-1404
OLDE offers:
4-12 month paid training program 
Potential six-figure income 
Excellent benefits
If you possess excellent communication skills, 
general market knowledge and the desire to excel, 
see us at the Career Fair on October 26, 1995.
If you are unable to attend the Career Fair call:
or send resume to:
OLDE Discount Stockbrokers 
National Recruiting 
751 Griswold Street 
Detroit, MI 48226
.OLDEDISCOUNT STOCKBROKERSMember NYSE andSIPCAn Equal Opportuhity Employer
1 800 937-0606
New band sings of potential
By PAUL TABACHNECK
Tartan Staffwriter
BOG. Thats the name of the 
album. In fact, the cover of the 
album looks pretty boggy, so I 
guess the name fits.
But why would a band whose 
label touts them as the Midwests 
best kept secret choose to call its 
national debut  their first five 
minutes of fame, their emergence 
deresistanceBOG? Look
ing at the cover to this al
bum, I just couldnt help but 
ask myself, how good can a 
piece of work entitled BOG 
be? Well, actually, its not 
too bad.
Mercy River is a four-piece 
acoustic/electric group 
straight out of, it seems, New 
Jersey. Michael Vesper, the 
frontman/acoustic guitarist, 
writes most of the material 
with Jeff Kay, the electric 
guitarist, with occasional 
contributions by bassist 
Mark Gorman and drum
mer Josh Cedar. The sound 
that results reminds this reviewer 
of Jellyfishs second album, Spilt 
Milk, mainly because of the utili
zation of background vocals, both 
as harmonies and 
countermelodies. Possibly one of 
the best examples is in the sec
ond track of the album, Sick, 
whose chorus involves some in
credible vocal weaving on the part 
of Gorman and Kay. They wan
der in and out of Vespers pauses 
and guitar stops, adding beat ac
cents left and right.
The really cool thing about this 
band could also be its downfall; I 
call it the inside joke syndrome. 
The structuring of some of the 
songs can be a little arduous, and 
this tends to split audiences into 
two factors: those who. are in
trigued by the challenge, and 
those who are annoyed by it. For 
instance, in the first track, Pills, 
the verse pattern has a couple of 
hanging lines which are only re
ally justified by the presence of 
those hanging lines in other 
verses. Those who get used to 
itwi 11 think its really something 
because they know what to ex
pect, but those people who like to 
listen to new CDs by listening to 
the first 45 seconds of each track 
will think it sucks. This band 
doesnt suffer from this problem 
as harshly as, say, Shudder to 
Think (whose patterns are so in
tricate Im sure they could tutor 
me in Calculus), but its present.
The only ti*ue disadvantage to 
this bands music, though, is 
Vespers insistence on sticking to 
his lyrics. In just about every 
track on the album, theres a lyric
somewhere that just feels like it 
was edged in 'there, like Vesper 
wrote the lyrics on a napkin some
where, took them to rehearsal, 
sang them over the music, and 
said, Well, there it is, and Im 
not changing any of it. It re
minds one of the line in Crowded 
Houses Dont Dream Its Over, 
the one that goes Get to know 
the feeling of liberation and re
lief, in that its like trying to fit 
50 syllables into one count.
The band definitely puts its best 
musicianship into this album, 
regardless of the fluctuation in 
songwriting tightness. This band 
is tight as a drum, with a 
strong feeling of coopera
tion.
One really feels like there 
are four guys in the room 
playing for their audience, 
not one guy and his hired 
hands, or a bunch of egomaniacal divas. Each member 
steps out only when neces
sary; the vocals stay even 
with the guitars, which stay 
even with the rhythm sec
tion, making it sound like 
there are no backup players 
in this group.
The fact that three mem
bers of the band are decent 
singers just adds to the thrill of it.
In a nutshell, while I dont know 
if Id buy this album, Id defi
nitely recommend giving it a lis
ten.
What I will say is that Id go 
after the next release, because I 
think that with some fine-tuning, this will be an excellent 
band.
Career Fair
October 26, 1995
OLDE, Americas Full Service Discount BrokerSM, is 
looking for motivated people to establish a career 
in the stock brokerage business.

---------------------------------------------------

Abu A-Ja-m l w-Jmuyeu ruccom imenuJgeat l CM UkaosuJ :PPdvv9
jjy BRADLEY ZIMMERMAN
Tartan Junior StaffWriter
joy Divison receives 
well-earned tribute
verge-of-collapse vocals in recent 
memory laid over an apocalyptic 
instrumentation Trent Reznor 
The worst thing about the Nine will have wet dreams over. My 
Inch Nails show last year at the friends, thasaone-a-spahcymeatCivic Arena was that during the a-ball.
encore, Trent announced Heres The downer to A Means to an 
song from The Crow..and then End is the sick treatment the 
lunched into Dead Souls. I more well-known songs, Isolagroaned. Once again, Joy Divi- tion and Warsaw receive. The 
sion gets screwed out of song rec- former has turned into a techno
ognition.
Who: Various artists 
What: A Means to and End 
Label: Virgin
I know, youre probably saying 
Who the hell are they? Well, 
back in the late 70s a few of the 
British punk bands were trying 
'to expand the genre. Joy Division 3 one of the bands that ended
mope-fest by Starchildren, whose 
only redeeming quality is that 
they mercifully bury the JAMCwannabe vocals under the newbiefilth sample tracks. For gods sake, 
they cant even keep the bas s fr om 
distorting, why couldnt Therapys 
thrash version from Troublegum 
be on here?
As for Desert Storms attempt 
at the early track Warsaw, I 
thought dick-obsessed garage
up pioneering the gothic-punk rock bands rightfully died somegenre with the likes of Bauhaus where in the late 80s. Love Will 
and Siouxie and the Banshees.
long the way, JD scored a Tophit with Love Will Tear Us 
tpart in 1980, which has since 
jeen covered nearly as many
Tear Us Apart, covered by un
knowns Stanton-Miranda is a 
toss-up depending on personal 
taste. Imagine The Cures Fri
day Im In Love with Dolores
Joy Division may have gone down in 
music history as the most famous 
unknown band ever.
times as the BeatlesYesterday ORiordan singing ... good. 
(Bono of U2 even sang pieces of unexpected considering 
Love Will Tear Us Apart during sparse, crooning original, 
the interlude to With Or With
out You on the last tour.) Sound
ing familiar yet?
How about New Order, the band 
formed by the former members of
but
the
Flat out, this is the best tribute 
album so far, regardless of the 
sad-ass Warsaw and Isolation. 
The only question is how will this 
be marketed? If history is any
JD after lead singer Ian Curtis 
committed suicide before JDs 
first American tour in support of 
I the Closer album? Hmmm?
On the subject of The Crow, the 
novel was inspired by the music 
of Joy Division, The Cure, and 
| Big Black. As a matter of fact, 
I. most of the chapters/interludes/
I characters in the book are named 
! after JD titles.
Joy Division may have gone 
down in music history as the most 
famous unknown band ever. Still, 
the mainstream couldnt have 
given a damn...
A Means To An End: The Music 
: of Joy Division may actually be 
the bands posthumous ticket. 
Assembled by band friend An
thony Wilson, this compilation 
succeeds where the recent glut of 
tribute albums fail; it gives bands 
songs in their personal vein and 
lets them run with them. For 
starters, instead of big-name acts, 
Wilson contacted low-profile indie 
bands. That was the problem with 
ie Stone Free (Jimi Hendrix) 
Nativity in Black (Black Sabiath) tributes  the successful 
jands recruited were already 
'earing their influences on their 
ieeves.
A Means To An End makes no 
such judgments, regardless of the 
interpretations. In most cases, 
the songs are incredible, like 
godheadSilos amphetaminegrunge reading of They Walked 
in Line, a song so manic that you 
get tense simply being in the same 
room as the CD jacket. The up n 
coming punk band Face To Face 
abandons its usual slick produc
tion techniques for the gloriously 
ugly Interzone, and Sub Pops 
own Codeine surprisingly makes 
Atmosphere the slacker drudge 
anthem no one wouldve dreamt 
it could be. In some cases, the 
bands actually do Joy Division 
one better.
The opening three songs set 
such an evil tone for the album
[that Im sure somewhere Ian 
Curtis is actually smiling. Shes 
Lost Control (Girls Against Boys) 
Wso statically jagged that it bears 
ittle resemblance to the lacklus
ter original version. The slow, 
agonized plodding of Honeymoon 
titchs Day of the Lords recalls 
iarly Cure in a more acid-washed 
ein. Still, the jewel of the CD 
es to unlikely candidate Moby, 
he electronic mavens take on 
&y personal JD favorite) New 
fawn Fades sets the standard 
)r future Goth with the most 
keatrical bleeding-soul-on-theindication, it will blasphemously 
make hardly a blip on the bill
boards.
Lets hope people wake up in 
time, because A Means to an End: 
The Music of Joy Division does 
not deserve that fate.
Inexpensive comics 
lend fond memories
Comic Book Chronicles
By Jason Andracki
Remember when comic books 
were fun, before everything was 
giim, and heroes were no differ
ent from villains? Remember 
when comics were cheap? Well 
for the first time in years, Mar
vel, of all compa
nies, is doing some
thing to bring back 
those days with 
Untold Tales of 
Spider-Man.
Reading the first 
three issues of this 
series is like tak
ing a trip back in 
time to the late 
1970s when I first 
began reading 
comics. That isnt 
to say this book is outdated. Its 
just a more nostalgic book than 
others on the market. This new 
addition to the Spider-Man 
Group is Marvels Legends of 
the Dark Knight, with the sto
ries taking place in the past 
continuity of Spider-Man.
Writer Kurt Busiek (Marvels, 
Astro City) captures the spirit 
of Spider-Man as the naive teen
age superhero. Pat Oliffe pen
cils this book in a simpler 197Os 
style (with the exception of the 
obligatory Todd McFarlene 
oversized eyes) that still is pleas
ing to the eye and is not an 
obvious rip-off like Ron Frenz 
{Superman, The Mighty Thor).
It was refreshing to see the
wise-cracking Spider-Man 
rather than the angst-filled 
Spidey of recent times. Busieks 
Spider-Man is wise-cracking, 
yet unsure of his powers rather 
than the over-confident hero of 
today. Also his Peter Parker is 
the nerdy bookworm, picked on 
by classmates, instead of an 
accomplished photographer 
married to a supermodel.
Busiek digs up some obscure 
villains for the first two issues, 
but picks a classic foe, Sand
man, for the third issue. Ill be 
looking for appearances from 
Mysterio, Kingpin, and other 
classic villains that I remem
ber from the leg
endary SpiderMan cartoon of the 
1970s. You re
member the 
theme, SpiderMan, Spider-Man, 
does what ever a 
spider can... 
Whether youve 
been a fan of Spider-Man books 
from the begin
ning or if this is 
your first encounter with the 
character, Untold Tales of Spi
der-Man is sure to please. Even 
if this is your first Spider-Man 
book, this series is a perfect 
starting point.
There is a brief retelling of 
Spideys origin for new readers 
in the first issue. And best of 
all, it costs only $.99! However, 
its goingto be hard not to spend 
that extra money on filling in 
the gaps in my Spider-Man col
lection.
Jason Andracki is a junior 
professional writing major. Hes 
putting the final touches on his 
Spider-Man Halloween cos
tume.
 Marvel Comics
Symbolic artist rocks
By BILL VANDERMARK
Tartan Staffwriter
Its finally here. After spending months tied up in litigation with 
Warner Brothers, the Gold Experience has finally arrived. And in 
this reporters humble opinion, it was well worth it.
The artist formerly known as
Who: Prince (sort of)
What: The Gold Experience 
Label: Warner Bros./NPG
Prince finally goes back to his 
roots as Prince. He relearns all of 
the clean-cut guitar rhythms and
........................................................  biting lyrics from his earlier days.
The album has twelve song tracks on it and various little interludes 
in between. Going back in full style, the album is very sexually 
oriented. The first song, p control, is better left to the imagination. 
The song itself is one of Princes driving rock songs. I say Prince, 
because thats the genius at work here. This song, in fact most of the 
album, traces his steps back from the days of Purple Rain and his 
ensemble work with The Revolution.
The next song, if Im not mistaken, was the one Prince performed 
on the VH-1 Honors concert. Its called Endorphinmachine. This 
song has Tommy Barbarella from the New Power Generation malt
ing another guest appearance similar to his rap in the earlier hit 
Sexy MF.
The confusing thing about the album is that most of the small 
tracks are in Spanish. I was very confused at first, but after much 
listening I found that they arent very hard to translate and dont 
contain much meaning toward the album other than to let you know 
that it will be starting shortly, etc.
The third song, shhh, is one of the ballad type songs that Prince 
puts on every album. Of course, the subject is purely sexual, but 
thats one of the things that the Man from Minnesota does best. He 
has created some of the most suggestive lyrics in music as well as 
some of the most obvious. His style, however, will always remain
Please see GUY, page L13
College Pro
Home Painters
HAPPY with what YOU MADE LAST SUMMER?
Come hear about an exciting summer opportunity 
especially geared toward driven, hard-working 
Carnegie Mellon students!
Presented by College Pro Painters, U.S. Ltd.
Tuesday, October 24th 
7:00pm 
Porter Hallroom 126 B
GRAPHIC 
COMMUNICATIONS
Skills for Success in Todays Tough Job Market
Secure the knowledge and 
professional skills for a 
competitive edge in business, 
communications, journalism, or 
the arts.
The Program in Graphic 
Communications Management 
and Technology can put you on 
the fast track to a career in . . .
Desktop Publishing
For advertising, marketing, 
publishing, and corporate 
newsletters.
Corporate Publishing
Management for graphic 
communication, 
telecommunication, and 
information system networks.
Print Production Management
Production management, editing, 
advertising, and sales for 
newspapers, trade journals, and 
consumer magazines.
Scholarship funding is available for 
qualified students. To learn more 
about our undergraduate and 
graduate degree programs or for 
a personal transfer evaluation, 
contact Professors Arnold 
Spinner or Gregory D'Amico at 
(212) 998-5125.
Fujifa
rtnuc URMCE
New York University 
School of Education 
Program In Graphic 
Communications Management 
and Technology 
239 Greene Street, Room 737 
New York. N.Y. 10003-6674
(212) 998-5125
New York University it an affirmative 
action/equal opportunity institution.
Please send me Information about your Program In Graphic Communications Management and Technology:? B.S. program ? M.A. program ? Ph.D., Ed.D.? Summer sessions
CITY STATE______________( )____SOC. SEC. NO. TELEPHONE NO:
bcw 7oHrwdw -B 
OwgS1 gvu -c,vu1t
WE ACHIEVE BY 
LEAPING BOUNDARIES.
Pl Cisco Systems, making respectable progress isnt good enough. We always go beyond
THE EXPECTED, ALWAYS IN THE DIRECTION OF WIDE OPEN POSSIBILITIES. THATS HOW WEVE MANAGED TO 
LEAP SO MANY BOUNDARIES IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF HARDWARE, SOFTWARE, AND CUSTOMIZED 
INTERNETWORKING PRODUCTS. VERY SOON, VIRTUALLY EVERY INDUSTRY WILL RELY UPON INTERNETWORKING.
NCiv lrigh vCrt sTee aret Ed,g oThA,c
fCiv n,rh Tv viHr v, drau,al iv vCTh eryre. Or,der sC, iar TaaruEvibet vCr brhv iv 
sCiv vCrt n,c NrACg,e,2Thvh ign hvaivr2Thvh ,u vCr CT2Crhv ,anrac 6gn sCiv Ciddrgh sCrg 
so lEAC viergv A,lrh v,2rvCra Tg ,gr A,ldigt. 6 e,v ,u lTerhv,grhc
A LOT OF SUCCESS.
fr breTryr Tg brTg2 vCr brhvc oThA, Th ig r7ATEg2: da,2arhhTyr A,ldigtc fr hrr i ACieerg2r 
ih h,lrvCTg2 v, iTl u,a0vCrg hEadihhc pEa dr,der g,v ,get Ehr vCr eivrhv vrACg,e,2t0NmS1 
Aarivr Tvc fr baTg2 v,2rvCra r7dravh ua,l nTyrahr eTur r7draTrgArh ign ,uura NmS 9LS6w
ENVIRONMENT FOR THEM TO REFINE THEIR TALENTS, PERFECT THEIR SKILLS AND PROMOTE THEIR STRENGTHS. 
A MopUO6I1k nTngWv U6PS j jooSjjw0OSpOwS L9Lc
Cisco jthvrlh: 9gAc Th vCr erinTg2 2e,bie hEddeTra ,u rgvradaThr grvs,aHh: TgAeEnTg2 
a,Evrah: LAN AND ATM hsTvACrh: nTieqEd iAArhh hrayrah ign grvs,aH ligi2rlrgv h,uvsiarc 
NCrhr da,nEAvh: Tgvr2aivrn bt vCr Cisco 9gvragrvs,aH pdraivTg2 jthvrl 5oThA, IOS) eTgH 
2r,2aidCTAieet nThdrahrn LANs, WANs ign IBM grvs,aHhc oThA, Th Crin4Eiavrarn Tg jig 
(,hr: CA ign Th vainrn Egnra vCr NASDAQ htlb,e CSCO.
See us at our On Campus Presentation Wednesday, October 25 at 
7:00 p.m. in the Student Center, Room 218. Refreshments will be served. 
We will also be interviewing on campus on Thursday, October 26 for the 
following positions:
9 ,I7roVmn .Iggonr iMU0Mmmn7
9 .ovrtlnm iMU0Mmmn7
Check with the Career Placement Center for a detailed listing of positions and other dates we will be on campus.
If unable to arrange an interview with us, please fax your resume to (800) 818-9202, Attn: Human Resources. E-mail address: collegescisco.com. No phone calls, please. EOE.
For further information on job descriptions and qualifications, preview our home page on the World Wide Web at: 
http://www.cisco.com/public/employment.html
a S Y S T E M S

---------------------------------------------------

zsafeZBERMUDEZ
CMU, Class of '95
Please career for full
Price Waterhouse FFd
an equal opportunity employer
We know it.takes someone like ISABEL 
BERMUDEZ to succeed in consulting. She 
has the passion to learn, a hunger for 
RESPONSIBILITY and thrives on challenge.
Isabel joined PRICE WATERHOUSE
because of our progressive career 
development program, and extensive 
TRAINING program in information 
technology. She knew that our people 
have the OPPORTUNITY to rapidly 
develop IT consulting capabilities and 
experience by contributing to cross
country PW project teams. As a Price 
Waterhouse PROFESSIONAL, Isabel is 
working and learning along side many of 
the best IT consultants in the industry.
And now that Price Waterhouse is the 
ONLY professional services firm listed in 
Computer World's ranking of the 100 
BEST places for information systems 
professionals to work, Isabel knows that 
she has joined the consulting firm with 
the passion for a higher standard.

---------------------------------------------------

Abu A-Ja-m l w-Jmuyeu ruccom imenuJgeat l CM UkaosuJ :PPdvvM
DH 2210
i rm i i i i i h i i
foneug top f-t b-nu guum suGoJuNN
by JOHN BIGGS
Thursday, October 26
Nosferatu
Scaaaaaaaaaary! Scaaaaaaaary! Scaaaaary mon
sters! Wow!
This old, old, old movie has the scaaariest and 
uuugliest vampire in it youve ever seen, if this is 
the movie Im thinking of. Otherwise, it might be a 
stinker. Press your luck. Go see it.
See, this movie was made in the days before 
movies had voices. There is lots of lurking and 
jumping in it, as well as some little touches that 
Oliver Stone or whoever just couldnt achieve. 
While it doesnt star Brad Pitt, there is a shot of his 
chest in it, which is pretty hairy. Look for it and win 
a prize.
Watch out, my wee bairns, because itll be scary!
At 6, 8,10 pm, and scaaaary midnight.
Friday, October 27
The Shining
Ohhhh! Another scaaaaaaaary movie! Theres a 
theme here.
Starring Jack Nicholson and some kid, this movie 
is based on one of Stephen Kangs sixth-grade book 
reports, which was 1500 pages long. Directed by 
Stanley Kubrick, this movie has scaary things in it, 
like a little kid that says redrum (which is 
racecar, spelled backwards) and Jack Crack 
Nicholson running around in a hedge maze. And 
they arent serving tea and crumpets at the end of 
this little maze. Theres blood and death and a big 
axe. Death is a popping, my wee bairns. Wear 
diapers to this one.
At 5, 7:30,10 pm, arid 12:30 am.
Saturday, October 28
Ghostbusters
This little piece of porn is all about women with 
big boobs that die and come back from the grave. It 
stars Bill Murray, Rick Moranis, Chelsea Clinton, 
Chynna Philips, and Brad Pitt and features a big 
ghost that is made out of marshmallows. 
Everybodys already seen this, probably, so I just 
dont feeling like going into depth, see?
Like I said, its about Bill Murray and these other 
funny guys who decide to go into business busting 
ghosts. Hence the name: Ghostbusters. So, in the 
end, they have to fight the evil Zuul and figure out 
if Murray can get into Sigourney Weavers address 
book. This is a very funny movie. Funny with a 
capital Fun!
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Sunday, October 29
Wicker Man
This movie is also very scaaaaaaaaaaaaaaary. It 
is about people that worship pagan sorts of things, 
like hassocks and lava lamps. While this sounds 
like your run of the mill horrrrrrrror movie, its not. 
Its actually kind of neat. See it with the lights on 
and dont forget to put the seat down.
Starring Christopher Lee and written by An
thony Shaffer, this is a weener!
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Quality acting makes theater worth time
By ALEX LEWIN
Tartan Staffwriter
Pulitzer Prize winner Michael 
Cristofers new play, Amazing 
Grace, is a deep examination of 
the creation, action, and redemp
tion of a serial murderer, a fasci
nating and terrifying look at what 
one human being is capable of, 
and a dark exploration of what 
we prefer to simply label as in
sane.
I wish it had been funnier.
I know, its a terrible, thing to 
say, but the plays most effective 
moments came at the occasional 
spots that made the audience 
laugh. For example, when Selena 
Goodall, our protagonist-murderer, is questioned by a doctor, 
she rattles off a laundry list of all 
the drugs she was taking at one 
time, making sure not to forget 
any. Its a very fanny moment, 
and we become supremely un
comfortable for laughing at her 
tragedy. This tension is much 
more interesting and effective 
than the moments that consti
tuted the majority of the play, 
when all the emotion would be 
spelled out for us to merely pick 
up and sympathize with. For ex
ample, Selenas line, There were
eight living, breathing human 
beings and they were gone now, 
and I had to live with that, is 
much less ambiguous than the 
horrifyingly casual telephone con
versation she has while feeding 
rat poison to her husband. It is at 
once funny and frightening, and I 
wanted to see Cristofer work with 
that tension more. I wanted him 
to use the comedy to emphasize 
the deepness of the tragedy.
The production itself, at the 
Pittsburgh Public. Theater, was 
superb. Sometimes I felt a little 
like I was in a disco, but for the 
most part, the lighting was 
smooth, controlled, and used to 
serve the play. Director Edward 
Gilbert allowed the play to flow, 
allowed the actors to work freely, 
and brought out the subtleties 
without hitting us over the head.
Playing Selena in her rather 
gloomy trip down memory lane is 
four-time Oscar nominee Marsha 
Mason (The Goodbye Girl, 
Cinderella Liberty). She brings 
out the paradox of Selenas being 
at once a killer and a victim of her 
own insanity with a power and 
energy that make her fascinating 
to watch.
The ensemble cast brings life 
and personality to even the smallest of the plays sup
porting roles. Par
ticularly notable is 
Laurie Kennedy as 
Vivian, Selenas 
friend and witness 
to her terrible 
crimes and even
tual redemption. 
Stephen Bradbury 
as John is simulta
neously hateful and 
sympathetic. Kate 
Young, a busybody 
PR woman, de
scribes with hilari
ous superficiality 
the procedures of le
thal injection. The 
actors have brought 
out the richness of 
the contradictions 
in Cristofers char
acters and sce
narios. I only wish
there had been more of that ten
sion, more of that drama in the 
script itself, rather than the un
ambiguous melodrama of 
Selenas hymns and preaching 
and emotional venting. It seemed 
almost as if Cristofer was inten
tionally putting a cap on the black 
comedy of the play, keeping it 
secondary to the obvious seriousPhoto courtesy Pittsburgh Public Theater 
Marsha Mason practices the YMCA dance as 
Stephen Bradbury coaches in Amazing Grace.
ness and religious overtones. 
Whoever it was that said, Dying 
is easy  comedy is hard, was 
right on the money.
Amazing Grace is playing at 
the Pittsburgh Public Theater 
through November 19. For tick
ets or more information, call 321 - 
9800.
Rowdy crowd disrupts Oasis show at Metropol
By MATTHEW SOLITRO
Tartan Sports Co-Editor 
& DANI BARNARD
Special to The Tartan
If you have taken a look at the 
British music charts since early 
1994, you may have noticed that 
they are studded with number 
one hits from a group called Oa
sis. This five-man rock band from 
Manchester, England, has taken 
Britain by storm since the issue 
of their first album, Definitely 
Maybe, last year. Their second 
album (Whats the Story) Morn
ing Glory? has also had much 
success and has already gone to 
number one since its released on 
October 2 in England.
In America, Oasis has a dedi
cated following, but their popu
larity here has not yet sky-rocketed to the proportions of their 
fame in England.
They have had some exposure 
on. MTV and are currently tour
ing the East Coast to promote 
their album.
The Oasis tour played at 
Metropol in the strip district on 
October 16. The opening group, 
Acetone, was less than mediocre, 
and everyone waited anxiously 
to be put out of their misery.
When Oasis finally took the stage, 
the crowd went crazy. Before the 
music even started, several pa
triotic British fans started yell
ing and rushing the stage, mow
ing down people along the way. 
The lead guitarist, Noel 
Gallagher, introduced the band 
saying, Were Oasis....Youre 
not, and with that he established 
the in-your-face attitude for which 
they are known.
The band 
tore through a 
collection of 
tunes from 
both of its al
bums, includ
ing the song 
Acquiesce 
from their 
Some Might 
Say single. The 
Gallagher bro
thers and com
pany showed
off the talent that has carried 
them to the top of the charts in 
the UK The blues-based riffs of 
Noel Gallagher and rhythm gui
tar of Paul Bonehead Arthurs 
provided the perfect backdrop for 
the emotional energy of lead 
singer Liam Gallagher. Their live 
renditions of Supersonic, Roll
with it, and Champagne Super
nova added more intensity to 
the recorded versions, but kept 
true to their clear, driving sound.
Unfortunately, the show was 
plagued by testosterone-filled 
moshers who showed no respect 
for other concert-goers.
It was difficult to fully enjoy 
the show while receiving a boot to 
the head from a passing crowdsurfer. Liam was also upset by 
their actions 
saying, You 
guys are a pain 
in my arse.
To calm the 
crowd, Liam and 
the band took a 
break as Noel 
played a mellow 
acoustic set. He 
started out with 
Wonderwall,
_ . . one of the most epic records ,popular songs on
the new album. He then dove 
straight into Cast No Shadow, 
and finished with a raw, solo ver
sion of Morning Glory.
When the band came back on 
stage, Noel had to sing Dont 
Look Back in Anger because 
Liam was still pissed-off back
stage, but he rejoined the group
for Live Forever, the big hit 
from the first album.
Liam had good stage presence, 
when he was actually present on 
stage. Throughout the show, 
Liam would stop singing and con
temptuously eye the members of 
the audience who were crowdsurfing. The instigators, however, 
remained oblivious to the end 
when Liam walked off stage in 
the middle of Live Forever, leav
ing the band to finish the song 
without lead vocals. The group 
finished the song and exited, cut
ting Rock n Roll Star from the 
end of their gig list.
The Pittsburgh show was the 
last one for this leg of the U.S. 
tour because temporary bassist 
Scott McLeod left the band. He 
was filling in for Paul McGuigan, 
who is recovering from the severe 
exhaustion that he suffered on 
the tour. However, Oasis kept 
their date on Letterman Thurs
day night, playing a four-piece 
version of Morning Glory with 
Arthurs on bass.
The new album has a powerful 
sound, and every song on it stands 
strongly on its own. Oasis re
turns to Europe on October 27, 
but more U.S. dates are being 
planned later in their tour.Guy everyone used to call Prince has new album
GUY, from page Lll
uniquely his own no matter which artist tries to copy it.
The song We March, deals with the black ancestral fight for 
freedom as compared to todays society. This song seems very timely 
with the recent verdict in the you-know-who trial. In the middle of 
the song, he says, nows the time 2 find a rhyme thats got a reason 
and frees the mind from angry thoughts  the racist kind. The song 
itself contains a very cool drum in the background with a marching 
beat.
Throughout the album are interspersed clips from the New Power 
Generation operator. One of the samples is, Welcome to the Dawn. 
There are over 500 experiences to choose from. Each of these 
samplers deals with the song after it. The Beautiful Experience
immediately precedes the previously released, TheMost 
BeautifulGirl in the World. Since the top-40 radio stations enjoyed 
beating this one into the ground, you probably already have your 
own opinion so I wont subject you to mine.
The first single from the album (besides the aforementioned song) 
is (Eye) hate you. Contrary to the title, this is a love song; of sorts. 
The man of the song is so in love with the woman that he is grief 
stricken at her infidelity.
Yes, I know its very profound for a rock/r&b album. Get over it. 
Overcome. Move on.
Ive decided to leave you with a quote that is found on the inside of 
the liner notes. HATE vs. LOVE? NO CONTEST... LOVE will ! 
always win!!! Love God. Love Life, Love sexy. Peace & be wild.
CAREERS IN INFORMATION TECHNOLOGYGive Your Technical Skills A Wider Sphere of Applications.
In todays global business climate, it is critical for companies to develop and maintain leading-edee technologies that help tl opportunity. At Morgan Stanley, our IT Department helps us apply state-of-the-art technology which keeps us in a preemin financial services. We are seeking the nation's top graduates ana undergraduates to bring their talents to technology projectevery tional financial
them make the most of preeminent position in intema-seeking the nation's top graduates ancf undergraduates to bring their talents to technology projects of worldwide scope. Join us and you'll benefit from a dynamic, highly-creative environment which uses the most advanced technologies available anywhere. After completing our intensive and "comprehensive 3-month training program, you will have the opportunity to work with experienced computer professionals who will ensure that your education doesn't stop when you leave school. You will work with such exciting technologies as:
Parallel Processing
Object-oriented Databases/Languages 
GUI Development
Real-time Data Distribution/Processing 
Document Architectures 
Distributed Computing 
Genetic Algorithms 
Mainframe Systems 
State-of-the-art Trades Processing Systemsqualify for our Distributed Systems program, you should be completing a degree in Computer Science, En Mine, and have proficiency in C and UNIX. C++ and Windows experience would be a plus. To qualify for iEngineering, MIS, or a our Firm Systems,____t __ ; proficiency ir , , ,(mainframe) program, you should be completing a degree in Finance, Economics, Engineering, MIS, or other related discipline. You should have some familiarity with systems and some programming experience.We offer an extremely attractive compensation package, along with abundant opportunity for professional reward. Discover the world of difference Morgan Stanley can make in your future. Send a resume and cover letter to: Technical Recruiting Manager, Morgan Stanley & Co., Inc., 750 Seventh Avenue, Dept. TR/1, New York, NY 10019.
MORGAN STANLEY
Morgan Stanley Is An Equal Opportunity Employer.

---------------------------------------------------

m.
How to count to four: 
One, two, three, Theta Xi 
The new math apparently.
No slugs!Yea,
Highlander Games team.
Films
Robeson. The show will open this Wednes
day at 8 pm and run through Nov. 12. Call 
431-4400.
Dear OfficeWasnt last 
week nice. Lets 
try it again.
FrancineNo bowties!
Happy B-day 
Max! 
Love, sis
Nosferatu will play in DH 2210 Thursday at 6, 8, 
10 pm and midnight.
The Shining will take place in DH 2210 Friday at 
5, 7:30,10 pm and at midnight.
Ghostbusters will show in DH 2210 Saturday at 6, 
8,10 pm, and 12:00 am.
Wicker Man will show in DH Sunday at 6, 8,10 
pm and midnight.
The Boyd Campus Theatre presents The 
Holdup by Marsha Norman, running Oct. 2628 
at 8 p.m. General admission $7. 325-6743.
Carnegie Mellon Drama presents The Hot L 
Baltimore, Oct. 27-Nov. 4 at the Kresge Theatre 
in the College of Fine Arts. All evening perfor
mances begin at 8 pm. The Saturday matinee 
begins at 2 pm. For more information, call 268- 
5765.
City Theatre on the South side presents 
Philip Hayes Deans biographical play Paul
Music
Art
The Andy Warhol Museum presents the 
exhibition, Celebrity Photographs from Octo
ber until March. For more informa-tion call 622- 
3316.
Painting, sculpture, and film and video 
installations by 36 artists will be on view at the 
Carnegie Museum of Art, November 5 through 
February 18. For more information, call 622-6509.
The Womens Committee of the Carnegie 
Museum of Art dedicates its annual decorative 
arts symposium to the preservation of the historic 
house, particularly in England, America, and in 
Italy. The symposium takes place in the Museum 
of Art on Oct. 23 from 9:30 am to 2:30 pm. For 
more information, call 622-5558.
The Pittsburgh Center for the Arts will exhibit 
recent allegorical paintings of Odd Nerdrum, from 
Oct. 13-Dec. 31 For more information call 361- 
0873
Pittsburgh Filmmakers is proud to announce the 
relocation and grand opening of our new photogra
phy gallery. An opening reception will be held 
Nov.3 from 5-8 pm with a presentation by Kaighin 
at 7 pm. The show will run through Dec. 9,1995. 
Call 681-5449.
The Mattress Factory presents Artists of Central 
and Eastern Europe Oct. 29 to April 1996. The 
opening reception will be held this Sunday from 1- 
5 pm. Call 231-3169.
Drawings, photographs and other documents 
related to the 1965 Andy Warhol exhibition at 
the Institute of Contemporary Art (ICA) at the 
University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia will be 
in view Oct. 11 to January 6,1996 in the Archives 
Study Center. This exhibition is free with museum 
admission. For more information, call 622- 3316.
The Forbes Gallery presents its fourth show the 
year, Photo, Film and Video, a collection of works 
from the CMU community. The show will run form 
Oct. 23- 29 with a Halloween and Costume party 
this Friday from 8-10 pm, featuring music, danc
ing, food and drink. For more information, call 
268-2081.
The Carnegie Museum of Art presents 
Monlithic Architecture, nine architectural exhibi
tions from Oct. 1-Feb. 11. Call 622-3316.
The Bach Choir has evolved from a group of 
Bach admirers into a grand concert choir, 
performing major choral works from the 
Renaissance to the Twentieth Century. The 
next concert is set for Oct. 28 at 8 pm at the 
Church of Ascension located at the corner of 
Ellsworth and Neville. For more information, 
call 327-4756.
The Manchester Craftsmens Guild and 
the Duquesne Light Companypresent the 
finest artists on the jazz scene. The 1995-96 
Contemporary Masters Jazz Series will open 
on Oct. 27 with the David Liebman Group and 
guitarist Larry Coryell at 8 pm. Call 363- 
2811.
Dicesare Engler proudly welcomes Boy
Georgewith a special guest to Metropol, Nov. 
18 for a 7 pm all ages show. Tickets are 
$18.50. Call 747-8181.
Vernon Yard Recording Artists Maids of 
Gravity, will be playing a free acoustic show 
at the Oakland Beehive this Tuesday at 1:30 
pm. There will be free CDs given away and 
free coffee will be served to those who arrive 
early to the performanc. For more information, 
call 688-0359.
Lectures
The CMU Art Department Fall 1995 
Lecture Series presents artist Gary Hill on 
Nov. 2 at 5 pm in Doherty Hall 2315. Lectures 
are free and open to the public.
The Sierra Club (Allegheny Group)
sponsors naturalist and author Terry Tempest 
Williams lecture Reflections of Loss and 
Restoration this Friday at the Campbell 
Memorial Chapel at Chatham College at 8 pm. 
Tickets are $8 (adults) and $6 (students) 
before Oct. 17. For more information, call 561 
0203.
The Tai Chi Club will meet from 4:30-6:30 
pm on Tuesdays in the Student Center Rm. 
203. Call Malcolm Bauer at 268-7002 or by 
email at malcolm@cs.cmu.edu.
Choosing the Right Publisher: A 
Booksellers Perspective on Academic 
Publishing, a one-day seminar offered by 
Penn State will be held from 9 am to 5 pm on 
Nov. 4 at the Penn State Scanticon Conference 
Center Hotel at a fee for $50. Call 1-800-778- 
8632.
The CMU chapter of the Western PA 
Committee to Free Mumia Abu-Jamal and
the Political Speakers Forum Board present 
Race for Justice, a talk by Leonard Weinglass, 
Mumias attorney this Tuesday at 7 pm in DH 
2210. Call Dave Demarest at 268-2852.
Theatre
Energy University Coal Research Internship 
Program. Applicants must have completed 
the junior year and have a GPA of 3.0. To 
send for an application or other information 
contact Angie Palmer, University Coal 
Research Internship Program, Science/ 
Research Division. Oak Ridge Division, Oak 
Ridge, Tenn. 37831-0117, or call (423) 576- 
2494. Deadline is Feb. 15,1996.
If youre serious about a performing 
career, you should begin at the place where 
the best in the business began- Opreyland 
Productions Inc. As one of the largest 
producers of live entertainment in the 
country our Auditions Tour 1996 begins Oct.
9 and runs through Nov. 17. For more 
information, call 1-800-947-8243.
Would you like to improve your public 
speaking skills in an atmosphere thats 
friendly and supportive? Then Discover 
Toastmasters International! Youre invited 
to visit Whisket Rebellion Toastmasters 
Club every Wednesday at 7 pm at the Me 
Gee Center in Greenfield / Squirrel Hill.
For more information call Dr. Ken Israel at 
422-9394 or at 935-7001.
C611ege and university faculty with 
interests in health-physics related 
fields may apply for the U.S. Department of 
Energys 1996 Health-Physics Faculty 
Research Award (HPFRA) Program. The 
application deadline is Feb. 28. For more 
information or an application contact Leslie 
Gosslie, Health Physics Faculty Research 
award Program, Science/Engineering 
Education Division, Oak Ridge Institute for 
Science And Education, 1009 Commerce 
Park Suite 300, Oak Ridge, Tenn. 37831 
0117 or call 1-800-569-7749.
Kaleida Labs offer the ScriptX Course 
Kit, designed to expand ScriptX knowledge . 
It is specially priced at $1099 through Dec.
15. For more information, call 415-335- 
2098.
The Pittsburgh Laser and Advanced 
Surgery Center at St. Francis Medical 
Center will offer free prostrate screenings 
on Oct. 26 from 4-7 pm. The screenings will 
be held at the Medical Centers Lithotripsy 
unit on the first floor. For more information, 
call 622-8039.
Goodwill Industries of Pittsburgh will 
present its 9th Annual Celebrity Fashion 
Show/Luncheon and Auction this Saturday 
from 11:30 am to 3 pm at the Westin Will
iam Penn Hotel. 421-9005 ext. 216.
The Central Blood Bank will be holding a 
Halloween Blood Drive on Oct. 31 from 11 
am to 4:45 pm in the West Wing TV room.
For more information contact Nancy Fritsch, i 
Residence Life at 268-2142.
Reading Series
Notices
Can-Some Ransom will take place Saturday, 
Oct. 28 from 4-11 pm at the Zeta Psi Sigma 
House. Volunteer a member of your favorite 
fraternity, sorority, organization, team or 
residence area to get chained up for charity. 
For more information, call Rachel Noack at 
862-2608.
The Pittsburgh Energy Technology 
Center sponsors the U.S. Department of
Java Jeffs Coffee House at 2301 Murry 
Ave. has poetry readings every second and 
fourth Monday of every month at 8:30 pm. 
Call 421-JAVA for details. Music nights are 
every Thursday and Friday at 8:30. No cover i 
charge.
Carnegie Mellon Universitys Fall 1995 
Visiting Writers Series presents music 
and lyrics by performance poets Dougherty 
and Liebler this Thursday at 8 pm in the 
Adamson Wing, Baker Hall. These perfor
mance poets will give a display of this art 
form , described as physical mix of politics, 
lyrics and color performances. 268-6443.
Writers in the Kitchen will be held Oct.
24 at 7:30 pm at the Rainbow Kitchen in 
Homestead. Donations at door are $5. For 
more information, call 464-1892.
chloe 
please dont 
climb into the 
garbage can. 
please stay 
inside, please 
pee in js shoes.
Boo
ls that a hichey 
on your neck or 
did an elevator 
fall on yor head?
Heinlein eats 
highlander 
quiche!
Vox Populi
