THE TARTAN
Volume 88, Issue 14 Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 24 January 1994
By FRANK MICHELS
Tartan Personnel Manager
In response to Governor Bob Caseys announce
ment of a state of emergency, CMU President 
Robert Mehrabian decided to close the Univer
sity at 2 pm Wednesday to conserve electrical 
energy at the request of Duquesne Light, CMUs 
electricity supplier. After Lieutenant Governor 
lark Singel extended the state of emergency, 
the school was closed all day Thursday.
The state of emergency was declared as a 
esult of Arctic-like temperatures during the 
week, according to a news release from Singels 
office. A record temperature of 22 degrees below 
:ero was recorded at Pittsburgh International 
Airport on Wednesday morning  the lowest 
temperature ever recorded in Pittsburgh.
To the best of my knowledge, said Mehrabian,
in our 93-year history, the school was never 
closed, at least when students were on campus 
When students are on campus, we try to stay 
open except in the case of an emergency, like the
Governor s declaration. samuei ureentieia/iartan Managing taitor^cording to Mehrabian, CMU averages about ph| Kap,s painted message 0 the Fence_ abQVe summed ^ {ee| Qf the communit
a million dollars a day m expenditures that go
toward teaching efforts, research efforts, food, housing, and mainte- power users that it was experiencing some electrical load problems, 
nance. Mehrabian said that although several hundred thousand According to Ken Service, the director of corporate information for 
dollars will be lost because of the closing, money is not the reason Duquesne Light, if conditions had worsened, Duquesne Light would 
for my decision. He said, The decision is we have to balance the have resorted to periodic 15-minute blackouts every hour until the 
responsibility to our students and safety issues. situation was stable.
Though the weather was very cold, we stayed open, Mehrabian Service said that the companys problems were twofold. Basically,
said, but when Duquesne Lights power needed to be conserved, we it was a combination of extremely high demand for this time of year, 
closed.... I made the decision for the next day [Thursday] at about 8 and the weather did affect one of our generators, he said, 
pm because the Lieutenant Governor had strongly encouraged that We did not have to use rolling blackouts, basically from the 
institutions of learning, both public and private, be closed. cooperation of our customers, Service said.
On Wednesday afternoon, Duquesne Light notified its highest Please see SHUTIVCF status comes under fire
Bylaws force Senate to reconsider groups recognition
Deep freeze!
Severe cold closes University
Union braces 
for walk-out
By JASON TOGYER
Tartan News Editor
Service Employees Interna
tional Union (SEIU) Local 29 is 
expected to take a strike vote 
tonight, two weeks after the 
University broke a negotiating 
stalemate with a new proposal. 
The new contract offer was pre
sented on January 13 during 
meetings between CMU, Local 
29 negotiators, a federal me
diator, and representives from 
the Three Rivers Labor Coun
cil.
SEIU represents workers in 
Dining Services, maintenance, 
and Physical Plant. Its mem
bers have been working with
out a contract since December 
1992.
The proposal represents the 
latest step in a series of nego
tiations that union president 
Jack Yoedt said have him feel
ing worn out.
Some of the things were dis
satisfied with are overshadow
ing the things were satisfied 
with, said Yoedt.
The main areas of contention 
between CMU and SEIU cen
ter around changes in the 
health insurance plan covering 
union members and the elimi
nation of a number of job classes
in Dining Services.
Under the Universitys 
changes to employee health 
care package, employees would 
be required to contribute a per
centage of their wages towards 
health care. Someone work
ing for $5 or $6 an hour cant 
afford to pay $50 a month for 
health care, said Yoedt.
Barbara Smith, vice presi
dent for human resources, said 
that the Universitys new pro
posal is supposed to remedy 
that and other perceived prob
lems.
Basically the University met 
with the bargaining team 
again, Smith said. She said 
that the proposal provides for 
a signing bonus for each mem
ber of either $350 or three per
cent of wages, whichever is 
greater, dating back to July 1, 
1993, when the health plan 
changes were instituted.
The new proposal also in
cludes health care cost-shar
ing for employees, but it would 
be instituted upon the ratifica
tion of the contract by the 
union. Smith said it provides 
for employees to contribute five 
percent of their wages in the 
year following ratification, ten 
percent the next year, and 15 
Please see STRIKE, page 3
By JASON TOGYER
Tartan News Editor
The status of InterVarsity Christian 
Fellowship (IVCF) may be in jeopardy.
This Tuesday, Student Senate is ex
pected to vote on a motion proposed by 
senator Moneet Singh, a fifth year archi
tecture major, that would revoke
Senates recognition of IVCF. --------------
IVCF is. currently a recog
nised, non-funded group.
IVCFs status came into 
question when the Space Al
location Board (SAB) began 
debating whether or not to 
allocate space to the group in 
the former Naval Reserve 
Center on Forbes Avenue.
Student organizations are 
:heduled to begin moving 
into the property at the end of this se
mester so that work can progress on the 
demolition of Skibo Hall for the new 
University Center.
Senate Chair Burt Holzman is ex
pected to ask Senate not to postpone its 
vote on this issue because the SABs 
recommendations are to be presented to
of the executive board to sign a state
ment affirming that they believe in the 
tenets of IVCF.
These include indicating their agree
ment that Jesus Christ is our Lord, 
God, and Savior ... the unique, Divine 
inspiration, entire trustworthiness, and 
authority of the Bible... the Diety of our 
Lord Jesus Christ, and accepting IVCFs
You dont exclude people right off 
the bat by including it in your by
laws. 
 Crystal Trexel, 
Senate F&R committee chair
mission as evangelism, discipleship, and 
presentation of the call of God to the 
world mission of the Church.
The requirement for being a member 
of their executive board would seem to 
go against the [Universitys] Statement 
of Assurance, said Singh. Either they
change that, or they will have their staDean of Student Affairs Michael Murphy tus changed.
on Wednesday. We have no intention of changing our
The bylaws of IVCF require members bylaws, said Cheryl Mendenhall, a jun
ior design major and IVCF president. I 
dont see it as a problem. Anyones wel
come to [participate in] any of our events. 
I dont know what theyre concerned 
about.
The general precedent with groups is 
that if they fix whatever their problem 
is, well recognize them, said Crystal 
Trexel, a junior industrial management
------------- major and chair of Senates
Funding and Recognition 
(F&R) committee.
Otto Toby Davis, chair 
of the Universitys Human 
Relations Commission, said 
that the HRC has not been 
approached about IVCF, but 
that on the surface, they 
would not appear to be in 
violation of the Statement 
of Assurance.
Its not obvious to me that that would 
be the case, said Davis. I dont know 
that we [the University] bar any reli
gion. The Statement of Assurance would 
be in violation if we discriminated against 
people of one religion.
Michael Murphy, dean of student af
fairs, said that he hasnt heard a com
pelling argument on either side.
My initial response is that its reasonPlease see IVCF, page 5
Its snow bi deal...
Drew Ryan, a CIT freshman, braved the elements In this igloo on the Cut.
 The Bobbitt saga became news 
because the media likes to say 
penis.
See page 7
 We review Lips Together, Teeth 
Apart this week.
See page L7
 The Super Bowls coming  are 
you ready?
See page 10
inside Active people make a difference 
in the community.
See page LI
Classifieds.....................>..10
Comics...............................L4  Dybbuk is not a town in Iowa, its
Diversions..........................L7 a new play at the Public.
Features...........................LI See page L7
Forum..................................6
sPorts....................................9  Where did the right to life moveCalendar.LI 0 ment go wrong?
Vox Populi.......................LI 0 See page 7
David Perry/Tartan Photographer
The mystery of the disappearing 
CPU Is still unsolved, and Com
puting Services isn't talking. 
Please see page 5.
Guard will be posted at Wean, Doherty
the last five years, Re said. Fear of crime is the 
major problem.
Skees said that some people dont feel safe when 
they are working late at night on campus. Wean is 
real problematic, he said. We have people coming 
in through nine entrances on the first, fourth, and 
fifth floors right now.
The proposed plan would solve this problem, said 
Skees, since other than the two guarded doors all 
other entrances to those buildings would be locked 
at night, and departments would not be allowed to 
distribute keys for those locked doors.
Skees also pointed out that the guards will be a 
temporary measure. This arrangement is an in
terim measure while the University examines other, 
more permanent options, including electronic door 
locks,  he said.
A definite date for the lockdown hasnt been 
reached because many doors must be modified so 
that they can be locked. We are aiming for Febru
ary 1, said LaPaglia.
While most seem to agree that something needs 
to be done, there is doubt that the proposed plan 
Please see GUARD, page 3
By JESSE NICE
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Over the summer, the Academic Security Coun
cil looked into the problems of theft and fear of 
crime on campus. As a result, the academic build
ings will be locked at night, starting with Wean 
and Doherty Halls in early February.
The only doors that will be open are the main 
entrance to Doherty Hall (near the Clock) and 
either the first or fifth floor entrances of Wean 
Hall. These doors will be the only access to Wean 
and Doherty from 10 pm to 7 am every day. Both 
doors will have security guards stationed at them, 
who will let people in and possibly check IDs.
Jim Skees, space and maintenance coordinator 
for Wean, said, In response to requests by occu
pants for improved building security, the Univer
sity administration has authorized the hiring of 
two security guards whose sole function will be to 
guard one entrance in Doherty and one in Wean.
Chief of Campus Police James LaPaglia said 
although crime on campus is down, fear of crime 
has grown. Crime on campus has gone down over

---------------------------------------------------

2The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  24 January 1994
MW/ . MI'"SSw yssr-THIS JUST IN...
Californians' work habits all shook up
LOS ANGELES, January 22 (LATWP)  With traffic disrupted and 
many offices damaged after Mondays 
earthquake, Angelenos are changing 
the way they work. More are operat
ing out of their homes, paving elec
tronic highways with personal com
puters, modems, and fax machines. 
Others, with their bosses blessings, 
are juggling work schedules and 
chucking rigid workplace policies.
In post-quake Los Angeles, it is defi
nitely not business as usual. Further
more, say some workplace experts and 
government officials, surprise benefits 
might emerge from all the disruption.
As destructive and terrifying as it 
was, the earthquake has provided 
sprawling, vehicle-fixated Southern 
California with a rare opportunity to 
reshape how, where, and when its 
residents do their jobs.
The key ingredients for change have 
converged: traffic nightmares, tech
nological advances, and stringent new 
air emission laws. Wise fixes now could 
ease smog, traffic snarls, and the general stresses of life for years to come, 
i experts say, even after roads and of
fices have been rebuilt.
If the San Francisco Bay Area, still 
suffering disruptions four years after 
the 7.1-magnitude Loma Prieta tem
blor, can be a guide, chances are good 
that there will be dramatic shifts now 
and subtle, yet profound, changes in 
the long term.
In the aftermath of the Loma Prieta 
quake, some companies expanded pro
grams to encourage telecommuting, 
flexible hours, and car pooling. Given 
the even greater destruction here, 
Southern Californians can look for
ward to more extensive changes, ex
perts say.
We obviously have a year to several 
years ahead of us in dealing with the 
earthquake, and weve got to come up 
with creative and non-traditional so
lutions, said Susan Herman, top tele
communications official for the city of 
Los Angeles.
Bruce de Terra, a state transporta
tion planner, said: [The quake] will 
allow people and their employers, who 
are skeptical, to sample the changes. 
Eventually, what you will see are per
manent changes in the way people 
conduct business.
For the time being, city, county, and 
state officials are working with local 
telephone companies, telecommuni
cations experts, and big employers to 
craft a major telecommuting initia
tive.
Many details remain sketchy, but 
officials will try to encourage more 
workers to telecommute from home or 
from telecenters  offices equipped 
with computers, faxes, and phones  
close to their homes.
Los Angeles Mayor Richard Riordan 
is planning to announce an effort mod
eled on the successful traffic reduc
tion program used during the 1984 
Olympics that calls for telecommuting, 
four-day workweeks, and staggered 
hours.
Aftershocks continue to disrupt life in Los Angeles
LOS ANGELES, January 21 (LATWP)  Four strong aftershocks hit 
Los Angeles in a single hour Friday, 
sending the swelling number of dis
placed gathered in public parks duck
ing for cover while the area braced for 
yet another trial this weekend: rain.
Two storms were expected to move 
through the area between Saturday 
and Monday, bringing high winds and 
rain.
Victims ofthe earthquake now sleep
ing in public parks and parking lots 
scrambled to buy foul-weather gear, 
from ponchos to tarps large enough to 
cover an entire family. The National 
Guard raced to set up 6,000 tents
across the city.
Californians usually welcome rain, 
said meteorologist Harry Woolford. 
But not this time. For many people, it 
couldnt be a worse weekend for rain.
Even as power was restored to virtu
ally all of Los Angeles and the water 
was deemed safe to drink in more 
areas, the four powerful jolts at mid
morning Friday reminded residents 
that this seismic catastrophe was not 
over yet. The aftershocks ranged in 
magnitude from 4.0 to 4.6 and were 
centered beneath the community of 
San Fernando, five miles northeast of 
the epicenter of Mondays magnitude6.6 temblor.
Petition reignites 
AIDS scandal
PARIS, January 21 (LAT-WP)More 
than a year after two French doctors 
were sent to prison for knowingly giving 
AIDS-infected blood products to hemo
philiacs, the debate over the scandal 
was reignited last week by a petition 
from 98 doctors and scientists world
wide seeking a pardon for the prisoners.
The letter to President Franois 
Mitterrand, the first such appeal since 
the 1992 verdict in the blood scandal, 
was sharply criticized Friday by other 
doctors, AIDS activist groups, the fami
lies of 300 hemophiliacs who have died 
of AIDS, and 900 more who are known to 
be infected.
To make this demand while the vic
tims of this tragedy are dying is showing 
unbelievable indecency, said Dr. 
Jacques Leibowitch, an immunologist 
and head of the Raymond-Poincare Hos
pital outside Paris. It is also a sort of 
confession. Those who signed are now 
saying, we didnt act so differently in 
1985.
In making their appeal to Mitterrand, 
the signatories seemed especially con
cerned with the precedent that the case 
had set as a threat to medical progress.
Although they expressed solidarity 
and compassion for the hemophiliacs, 
the signatories said, It is our duty to 
guard against any unjustified sentiment 
of mistrust against doctors and scien
tists from assuming their duties.
Dr. Gille-Patrice Cassuto, head of the 
hematology department at the Univer
sity Hospital Centre in Amiens, said 
that when he was asked to sign the 
petition, I didnt think for one moment 
of doing it. And the way this is going to 
be seen is that again, as always, the 
doctors are on one side and society is on 
the other.
What most doctors and even the vic
tims of the scandal do agree on is that 
high government immunity, as mem
bers of Parliament, should also have 
been accused in the case.
GOP takes lead in crime war
WASHINGTON, January 21 (LATWP)  Republicans Friday accused 
President Bill Clinton of being a  phony 
in the war on crime and called for gettough measures, including the construc
tion of stockades on surplus military 
bases and life imprisonment for second
time violent offenders.
The Republican attack on crime and 
Clinton came at the winter meeting of 
the Republican National Committee 
(RNC) and signaled a potential bidding 
war between the two parties this year 
over an issue that tops the list of public
concerns.
Bill Clinton talks a good game on 
crime, said Sen. Phil Gramm (R-Tex.). 
But when you get down to the bottom 
line, Bill Clinton is a phony on the crime 
issue. Gramm called for enactment of a 
crime bill that grabs violent criminals 
by the throat.
House Minority Whip Newt Gingrich 
(R-Ga.) accused the administration of 
rejecting virtually every principle that 
works in fighting crime.
Gingrich advocated an emergency pro
gram as though this were wartime to 
build stockades without television and 
air conditioning on military bases. He 
said a crash program would mean that 
within months, no violent criminal need 
be released early anywhere in America 
for lack of space.
Republicans also used Fridays ses
sion to renew their attacks on the 
presidents health care plan and to ques
tion his commitment to serious welfare 
reform.
On health care, Gramm advocated that 
the party make clear distinctions be
tween the Clinton plan and GOP alter
natives. He repeatedly described 
Clintons plan as socialized medicine.
Asked if he were referring to a pro
posal authorized by Sen. John H. Chafee, 
(R-R.I.), Gramm did not respond.Abortion debate 
resumes in court
WASHINGTON, January 21 (LATWP)The Supreme Court announced 
Friday that it would decide whether 
judges may forbid abortion protesters 
from picketing, chanting, or approach
ing women on public sidewalks outside 
health clinics. It will be the first court 
test of demonstrators First Amendment 
rights at clinics.
The courts acceptance of the Florida 
case, which is likely to have great na
tional significance, came as thousands 
of antiabortion activists had gathered at 
the court building to mark the 21st an
niversary of the Roe vs. Wade decision. 
The order was coincidental to the an
nual protest.
Since the Supreme Court on January 
22, 1973 made abortion legal nation
wide, abortion has remained the jus
tices most volatile issue. A court major
ity has continued to uphold a constitu
tional right to end a pregnancy, but the 
conditions under which abortion clinics 
operate  and how readily a woman 
may obtain an abortion  have posed 
second-generation conflicts at the court.
The Melbourne, Fla., clinic involved in 
the new case had long been targeted by 
the abortion foes. Last spring, dozens of 
demonstrators, some of them graduates 
of a 12-week course in anti-abortion tac
tics, were arrested after they violated a 
judges order to keep away from the
clinic.
The question for the Supreme Court 
justices is whether a judge, acting after 
complaints of harassment and protest 
may prevent demonstrators from pic};, 
eting or otherwise congregating on put), 
lie sidewalks or streets. Here, a tria 
judge forbade demonstrations within 3$ 
feet of clinic property, prohibited con. 
tact with clients within 300 feet of the 
property, and banned approaching, Plea 
gregating, picketing, patrolling, demonstrating \yithin 300 feet of the home 
any clinic personnel.
The judge also forbade in morning 
hours, during surgical procedures anj 
recovery periods, singing, chanting 
whistling, shouting, yelling, the use t| 
bullhorns, and car horns.
This is a flat ban on pro-life 
said lawyer Matthew D. Staver, whs 
represents three anti-abortion activist; 
in the case of Madsen vs. Womens Health 
Center. If speech becomes violent an-: 
people begin shoving each other, then 
are laws that apply. But this order cov
ers peaceful speech activities.
Freeh increases power within FBI
WASHINGTON, January 21 (LATWP)  FBI director Louis J. Freeh Fri
day took another large step toward re
constructing the bureau, naming vet
eran bureau official David G. Binney as 
deputy director, but giving him dimin
ished responsibilities.
The selection of Binney, 53, to replact 
the retiring Floyd I. Clarke as the FBI's 
number two official is the latest in i 
series of personnel changes made by 
Freeh aimed at giving him tighter con
trol over the bureaus operations.
Many of those changes have involvec 
installing former associates and col
leagues from Freehs days as a federal 
prosecutor in Ne.w York to high-ranking 
FBI positions. Binneys promotion fits 
that mold. As an organized crime super
visor inNew York duringthe early 1980s, 
Binney said he enjoyed an excellent 
relationship with Freeh when they 
worked together on several major inves
tigations into the citys chief organized 
crime-families.
But Binney also confirmed that as 
deputy he will play a somewhat smaller 
role than Clarke. Traditionally, FBI field 
offices have reported to the deputy di
rector. Now, however, they will report 
directly to Freeh, Binney said.
News briefs by 
The Los Angeles Times - 
Washington Post News Service 
Layout by 
Eric Salzman
1 TRADERS/ASSISTANT TRADERS
You '11 perform fundamental and theoretical research for trading and risk analysis in American, European 
and Far Eastern markets. Appropriate candidates will have a strong background in mathematics and 
economics. Experience or research in the securities industry is a plus. Fluency in Japanese or another 
foreign language is an advantage, but not a requirement
WE'RE INNOVATIVE. WE'RE AGGRESSIVE
We're a lot like you.
WELLINGTON FINANCIAL GROUP 
IS AN INNOVATIVE AND AGGRESSIVE 
INTERNATIONAL TRADING FIRM 
SPECIALIZING IN THE COMPETITIVE 
FIELD OF DERIVATIVE SECURITIES 
AND STATISTICAL ARBITRAGE. WE SEEK 
ENTREPRENEURIAL INDIVIDUALS WHO 
ENJOY RESPONSIBILITY, AND THE 
REWARDS THAT COME WITH IT.
SOFTWARE ENGINEERS
You will develop real-time trading applications 
and accounting systemssoftware packages 
which will have a significant impact on our 
business. We are seeking developers with 
experience in UNIX, C++ and either SQL or 
XWINDOWS. An open mind towards new 
technology is also a must.
| FINANCE AND OPERATIONS
The Finance and Operations group manages the day-to-day business activities of the firm and 
provides operational and administrative support to all functional areas within the company 
through daily trade processing, financial accounting and reporting, and human resources.
Qualifications include a Bachelors degree in Accounting or Finance, accounting operations 
related experience, a strong aptitude for working with numbers, and demonstrated organizational 
and communication skills. Some knowledge of or experience in the securities industry is a plus.
WELLINGTON FINANCIAL GROUP. INC. WILL BE RECRUITING ON CAMPUS February 8 . PLEASE CONTACT THE
OFFICE OF CAREER SERVICES FOR MORE INFORMATION. WILUNaTON FINANCIAL GROUP. ATTN: MARIA NAIDICZ . 22S W. WASHINGTON 
STREET. SUITE 2135, CHICAGO. IL 80000. FAX: (312 300-1221. EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER.
Pennsylvania Governors School for the Sciences
Undergraduate summer employment at CMU will be available with the 
Pennsylvania Governors School for the Sciences. The PGSS is a fiveweek summer school for very talented high school students from 
Pennsylvania. Teaching Assistant/Counselor appointments will be available 
for biology, chemistry, and physics laboratories, as well as tutorial duties 1 
in computer science and mathematics.
Preference will be given to upper level scholastically sound applicants. 
You will be expected to simultaneously serve as dormitory counselors 
and to live in the same dormitory as the PGSS students, see that the 
PGSS disciplinary rules are adhered to, provide tutorial help in the 
academic program, and conduct social activities.
Stipend for five-and-one-half week period: $1000-$1400
(Depending on experience) 
Free room and board. 
School is in session from June 26 to July 30. 
Counselor duties begin June 23, end July 30
Applications for an interview are available in DH 2201.
For further information, contact Gerry Rensko, x 8-6669. 
Application Deadline: March 1, 1994.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  24 January 19943
CHINESE RESTAURANT
THEAR
NAVE olume T8,lA 
I8VE olume
by City Pittsburgh Paper, the BEST of Pittsburgh 1992
Dine in, Carry-Out, and Catering
OaklandDowntown
400 Craig Street124 Sixth Street
(Near Calhedral of Learning)(NearHeinzIM)
687-7777765-2222
FAX: 681-3333FAX: 681-3333
Mon-Sun, 11 am - 10 pmMon-Sun, 11 am-8pm
Canyout Paridng all Houis.Paridng Garage Available Above Restaurant
Free Paridng after 5 pm and Weekends.
Weather shuts down CMU
State of emergency decree prompts closure
we [Dining Services] contacted 
our staff to let them know to come 
in on Thursday.
Heydt said that staff for the 
Highlander Cafe and the Kiltie 
Court was also consolidated from 
workers who would normally 
have worked at the carts such as 
those in Wean Hall.
Ron Carter, assistant vice presi
dent of Facilities Management 
Services in Physical Plant, said 
that although the facilities closed, 
Physical Plants responsibilities 
continued. He said that the only 
major incident that happened as 
a result of the cold was a water 
main leak in Mellon Institute.
We had an excellent worker 
turnout, said Carter.
Though the weather conditions 
have been extremely harsh, said 
Carter, we really did appreciate 
the students cooperation.
Since all other departments and 
services closed as a result of the 
state of emergency, the Payroll 
Department must decide how 
non-salaried workers will be re
imbursed. According to James 
Boshears, payroll supervisor, a 
plan will be approved Monday by 
the Human Resources Committee.On January 4, when the uni
versity closed due to high snow, 
an additional Paid-Time-Off 
(PTO) day was given to full-time 
staffers who came to work.
Because of the University clos
ing, many professors and lectur
ers who normally have classes on 
Wednesday afternoon or Thurs
day will have to reschedule tests 
or lectures.
Robert Bianchini, an assistant 
professor in the Electrical and 
Computer Engineering Depart
ment, teaches Fundamentals of 
Computer Engineering, a class 
that meets Tuesday and Thurs
day mornings, in addition to mid
day recitations and late-night lab 
sessions.I think it was a good 
thing for the University to close, 
because for people to come into 
work is dangerous, said 
Bianchini, but the closing defi
nitely hurt my class ... We
shouldve been closed earlier 
Wednesday, but it was a hard 
decision.
Bianchini said that he had to 
meet with the class TAs Friday 
morning to discuss revising the 
courses syllabus. Were going to 
have to move some lectures to 
recitations, said Bianchini. 
Well be OK, but itll be a lot of 
juggling around. He also said 
that some of the lab sessions 
might have to start their first lab 
without the materials that would 
have been given out on Wednes
day and Thursday.
Professors were not the only 
people who thought that the 
school should have been closed 
earlier Wednesday. Paula New
man, a sophomore drama major, 
started a petition early Wednes
day afternoon protesting the 
Universitys decision to keep the 
school open.
From 11:30 am to 12:30 pm, 
Newman obtained 76 signatures 
from students in Kiltie Court on 
a petition that argued for an early 
closing. The petition said, We 
(the student body) find that the 
decision to keep the school open 
during -20 weather, is very un
healthful for the well-being of the 
student body as well as the fac
ulty.
The letter continued by warn
ing Mehrabian of the illnesses 
and health risks that could result 
from keeping the school open and 
by describing the lack of student 
performance if the student bodys 
health suffers. Since the school 
did close early, Newmans peti
tion did not reach the Presidents 
office until Friday.
Complaints, however, were re
ceived at both the Presidents of
fice and Campus Police headquar
ters. Mehrabian said that over 
100 complaints were received by 
Warner Hall, Campus Police, and 
academic departments.
I take the final blame and re
sponsibility for my decision, said 
Mehrabian. I cant just cancel 
classes and shut down the school; 
its not that simple.
| SHUTDOWN, from page 1
[ This cooperation included a 
bulletin posted as the Message of 
;he Day on the campus network,
Inessages posted by the Univer
sitys several departments on elec
tronic bulletin boards, and the 
closing of all public computer clus
ters until 8 am on Friday.
The bulletins stressed the con
servation of electrical power. Ac
cording to the bulletin, CMU stulents and employees were urged 
to make every effort to conserve 
electricity on campus. They were 
told to turn off all lights, comput
ers, and appliances when they 
[eft campus.
After the closing, the only ser
vices available were Campus Po
lice, Dining Services, and Physi
cal Plant.
The normal security was in 
(place, said James LaPaglia, chief 
: of Campus Police. LaPaglia said 
' that some additional security 
neasures taken were snow chains 
on police cars, awareness of people 
in less-populated areas, and ac
tions taken against open and 
cracked windows in the case of 
flooding.
LaPaglia, who also runs the 
^Shuttle/Escort service, said that 
p;on Wednesday, the shuttle ser
vice ran until 6 pm, and a secu
rity guard agreed to drive an ex
tra escort van.
i It was so cold that the B route 
shuttle bus wouldnt start on 
time, said LaPaglia. Its a brand 
new bus  youd think that 
wouldnt happen.
LaPaglia said that the bus ran 
L5 minutes behind all day. On 
Thursday, the Shuttle/Escort ser
vice resorted to a weekend sched
ule with an AB shuttle route.
Roger Heydt, the director of 
Dining Services, was able to keep 
most of CMUs dining facilities 
bpen- during; the 'closing, but' he 
said that maintaining the hours 
r-of CMUs dining facilities was 
more difficult on Wednesday beij'cause of employees who called off 
work.
On Wednesday, Heydt said,
Security changes
GUARD, from page 1
|jwill solve the problems. James Landay, a computer 
science major and student senator, said, It is not 
[ clear that it would be safer with a guard at one 
Koor.
i | Many people are also concerned about possible 
access problems in Wean. One door wouldnt be 
{sufficient for this building anyway since people use 
|the fifth and first floor entrances, said Landay. 
Nick Kramer, a sophomore computer science/ 
ath major, pointed out another difficulty with the 
plan. The bottom line is this proposal will only
at Wean, Doherty
solve the problem only if the problem involves nonCMU people, he said.
I believe that having roving patrols with better 
communications might be more useful than lock
ing the buildings and having the guard stay at the 
door, Landay said.
Skees also asked that the University hire an
other guard so that the entrances on both the first 
and fifth floors of Wean would remain open.
We are not committing ourselves to this, 
LaPaglia stressed. If there is a better solution, we 
will use it.
Union may strike tonight
STRIKE, from page 1
percent the following year. The contract would 
run until June 30,1997.
In some respects, its helpful in terms of the 
way they presented the health care costs, Yoedt 
said. The 10 percent wont start until July of 
1995, one year later than they originally pro
posed.
The disadvantage, said.Yoedt, is that the con
tract would effectively run from November of 
1992, when the old contract expired, until 1997.
Thats a long period of time with only three 
pay increases, said Yoedt. He said that he ex
pects the local tonight to reject the new offer. I 
told the University that I couldnt recommend 
[their proposal].
I think its obvious that were not interested in 
going out on strike, Yoedt said, thats evident 
since were continued to work for 14 months 
[since the old contract expired]. At the same 
time, the school has implemented some of the 
changes [in dispute] and thats caused some 
problems.
One major area of disagreement between the 
two sides involved the Universitys plan to re
duce the over two dozen job classifications in 
Dining Services to six. The University said that 
it was necessary to bring wages and job classifi
cations in line with those at other universities.
That means that there would be four or five 
different wage rates in the same job classifica
tion, Yoedt said. He said he felt that would 
cause morale problems. You would have wage 
differences between $1 and $3.
The morale is already bad in Dining Services, 
but now its just going to get worse.
We added some skill adjustments for new 
members, said Smith. They are in a range. Its 
not a flat rate. We added two new job classifica
tions as well.
The skill adjustments would affect those indi
viduals who took some classes or show some 
skills, said Yoedt. From a practical standpoint, 
it wont affect that many people.
In July, the union filed an unfair labor prac
tices charge with the National Labor Relations 
Board (NLRB). The union claimed the Univer
sity had bargained unfairly and had implemented 
changes in health insurance and Dining Ser
vices work rules that SEIU had rejected.
When the regional director of the NLRB ad
vised the union and the University that he found 
no reason to issue a complaint against CMU, the 
union withdrew its charge. A few days later, the 
union met with the University again.
We met with them in December, I believe on 
[December 21], said Yoedt. The next day, we 
refiled the charges with the NLRB, so you can 
see how productive that meeting was.
Were hopeful, said Smith. Wed really like 
to have a settlement. We think its a fair con
tract, and wed like to resolve this.
Carnegie Mellon 
Aetivities Fair
1994
IVCFsstVa
' sponsored by your Activities Fee and the Office of Student Activities

---------------------------------------------------

The Economics of the Citibank
Classic Visa card. How no annual fee, student discounts
and Price Protection create upward growth, a variety of factors have been suggested 
as contributing to the economic growth of students, including (1) more lottery winners between the 
ages of 18 and 22, (2) a 37% increase on earnings from bottle and can returns, (3) more students 
doubling earnings in the lightning round of game shows, and (4) the Citibank Classic Visa card. Its 
this last one, however, that affects most students. H The Citibank Classic Visa card offers immediate 
savings to student cardmembers. You can now receive the Citibank Classic card with No Annual Fee. 
You can capitalize on a $20 Airfare Discount for domestic flights,1 a low variable interest rate of
15.4%? as well as savings on mail order 
purchases, sports equipment, music and 
magazines. One might even have enough 
savings to reinvest in a CD or two (the 
musical kind, of course). H On the way to 
the record store, or any store for that 
matter, take stock of the 3 services 
concerned with purchases made on the 
Citibank Classic card. Citibank Price Protection assures one of the best prices. See the same item 
advertised in print for less, within 60 days, and Citibank will refund the difference up to $150? 
Buyers Security can cover these investments against accidental damage, fire or theft 
(ordinarily causes for Great Depressions) for 90 days from the date of purchase? And Citibank 
Lifetime Warranty can extend the warranty for the expected service life of eligible products 
up to 12 years? *f| But perhaps the features which offer the best protection are your eyes, your 
nose, your mouth, etc.all featured on The Photocard, the credit card with your photo on it. 
Carrying it can help prevent fraud or any hostile takeover of your card. (Insiders speculate that it 
makes quite a good student ID, too.) Even if ones card is stolen, or perhaps lost, The Lost 
Wallet" Service can replace your card usually within 24 hours. H So never panic. As we all 
know, panic, such as in the Great Panics of 1837, 1857 and 1929 can cause a downswing in a 
market. But with 24-hour Customer Service, theres no reason for it. A question about your account 
is only an 800 number away. (Panic of the sort experienced the night before Finals is something 
else again.) 11 Needless to say, building a credit history with the support of such services can only 
be a boost. Youre investing in futuresthat future house, that future car, etc. And knowing the 
Citibank Classic Visa card is there in your wallet should presently give you a sense of security, 
rare in todayshow shall we say?fickle market. H To apply, call. Students dont need a job or a 
cosigner. And call if youd simply like your photo added to your regular Citibank Classic Visa card. 
Heres the number: 1-800-CITIBANK, extension 19. (1-800-248-4226). 1 The Law of 
Student Supply and Demand states, If a credit card 
satisfies more of a students unlimited wants and 
needs, while reducing the Risk Factor in respect to 
limited and often scarce resourceswith the greatest 
supply of services and savings possiblethen students 
will demand said credit card. So, demand awaycall.
'Offer expires 6/30/94. Minimum ticket purchase price is $100. Rebates are for Citibank student cardmembers on tickets issued by 1SE Flights only. 2The Annual Percentage Rate for purchases is 15.4% as of 12/93 and may 
vary quarterly. The Annual Percentage Rate for cash advances is 19.8%. If a finance charge is imposed, the minimum is 50 cents. There is an additional finance charge for each cash advance transaction equal to 2% of the 
amount of each cash advance transaction: however, it will not be less than $2.00 or greater than S10.0P. 3Certain conditions and exclusions apply. Please refer to your Summary of Additional Program Information. Buyers Security is underwritten by The Zurich International UK Limited. JCertain restrictions and limitations apply. Underwritten by the New Hampshire Insurance Company. Service life expectancy varies by product and is at 
least the minimum based on retail industry data. Details of coverage arc available in your Summary of Additional Program Information. Monarch Notes are published by Monarch Press, a division of Simon & Schuster, a Paramount Communications Company. Used by permission of the publisher. Citibank credit cards are issued by Citibank (South Dakota). N.A., 1994 Citibank (South Dakota), N.A. Member FDIC.
CLASSIC
HX28 0012 3m ISSO
ByFRANRK EXPtfwrmotfre
06/9) 05/3/9Wimk MINE* VISA3S 92
Not just Visa. Citibank Visa.
No known picture of Washington smiling exists. Economists believe Washington was unhappy 
because he felt he could have received a better deal on war supplies. If he used a Citibank 
Classic Visa card, he would have been assured ofgetting the best price and probably would 
have been happier. (Artist's rendering of how he would have appeared on the dollar.)
Monarch Notes Version:
The Citibank Classic Visa card will be 
there for you with no annual fee, a low 
rate and special student discounts... 
so your own economy will be more 
like a boom than a bust. Call 1-800- 
CITIBANK, ext. 19 (1-800-248-4226).

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  24 January 19945
Senate may alter IVCF status
' CF, from page 1
ible for any organization to expect its 
leaders to be committed to the priniciples 
of the organization, said Murphy.
He said that he feels that as long as 
the groups general membership was 
i ot restricted, the controversial state
ment of beliefs seems reasonable. How
ever, he said that he hopes more infor
mation will be presented at Tuesdays 
csbate.
It bothers me more on a Senate level, 
said Trexel. Recently we dealt with 
other groups that had violations in their 
t, laws. Im nervous about providing 
school facilities to support a group that 
excludes certain members. Its officially 
part of their group that you have to hold 
Christian beliefs.
Brian Bailey, a senior physics major 
and former president of IVCF, said that 
the organization has been a recognized 
gfoup at Carnegie Tech and CMU since 
1948.
Weve always been recognized and no 
cne has ever challenged it, said Bailey.
The loss of recognition would cripple 
the organization, said Mendenhall. I 
think this would create a lot of problems 
for us, she said. We couldnt use rooms 
| on campus. We couldnt poster on cam
pus.
I brought the issue up because people 
seemed to be willing to give IVCF space 
without consideringthe appropriateness 
of entangling the administration with a 
religious group, said one member of 
SAB who asked not to be identified.
The member said that he is concerned 
about keeping church and state sepa
rate. My primary concern is that while 
it is necessary to protect the speech 
rights of any cult here on campus, we 
should avoid entangling ourselves too 
much with religion.
We have a group here that censors its 
members. Its a very highly evolved struc
ture for making people think alike, said 
the member. One of the ways this mani
fests itself is this statement they have to 
sign. None of the other groups on cam
pus have this sort of institutional 
thought policing. 
We have a good history of being open 
to Christians and non-Christians, said 
Bailey. No one have ever complained 
about [this statement].
Bailey said that while he knows of no 
other groups that restrict the eligibility 
of officers in the same way as IVCF, he 
feels that it occurs in practice even if its 
not written down.
You dont exclude people right off the 
bat by making it part of your bylaws,
said Trexel.
This has come up before [at other 
schools], said Mendenhall. The na
tional IVCF office has legal documents 
they can send to us. Usually, student 
governments will back down.
Executive officers of IVCF are chosen 
by the previous years officers. The state
ment that they are asked to sign is 
required by the national governing body 
of IVCF.
The real censors here are the na
tional IVCF organization and not Sen
ate, said the SAB member.
The member added that no other orga
nization on campus, with the exception 
of the fraternities, which are not gov
erned by Student Senate, have so many 
requirements from their national sanc
tioning body.
I think theyll probably lose their rec
ognition because they dont show any 
signs of being willing to work with Sen
ate, Trexel said. Its going to be a long 
debate.
Mendenhalls not so sure. I expect 
that they will hear the evidence we have. 
I dont expect a big fight, she said.
She said that the fight has strength
ened the organizations resolve. 
Everyones really positive that this will 
work out for the best, she said.
Theft closes cluster
By EDWARD HAYES
Tartan Staffwriter
The CyertHall computer cluster was 
robbed sometime last weekend. As a 
result of the robbery, the cluster has 
been closed until repairs on the alarm 
system have been completed.
The robbery was thought to have 
taken place last Saturday night. A 
tower-type CPU priced at $4,000 was 
taken, and in the course of the rob
bery, the alarm system was damaged.
The unit that was stolen is a rather 
large piece of equipment, and easy to 
spot, which led the administration to 
believe that the computer was stolen 
during the night.
The cluster had to be closed in order 
for the alarm company to make the 
necessary repairs to the system. David 
Gregg, computer education director, 
said [The cluster] will be up this week
end or Monday [today] at the latest.
The Cyert Hall computer cluster is 
unique to all other clusters in that it 
houses IBM PCs and CD ROMs.
An added capability that the cluster 
has is the instructor can transmit data 
from his/her terminal to students 
screens. This feature is one of the
reasons foreign language tests are ad
ministered here.
The clusters main purpose is for 
training. [Cyert Hall was] the first 
cluster to be designated as a training 
cluster, said Gregg.
As of now, only one class was to have 
been held in the cluster. Due to the 
inclement weather, the professor 
teachingthe course was unable to come 
in, so the robbery did not force the 
class cancellation.
The exact method of the robbery is 
still unknown. There are no leads in 
the case and no witnesses have come 
forward.
Tracy Futhey, director of user ser
vices, and Pomona Valero, director of 
cluster services, refused to comment 
on the incident.
Campus Police stated that they were 
not able to disclose any information 
until they finished with their investi
gation.
They are continuing their investiga
tion in this case and as of press time 
did not have any suspects or leads. 
The cluster will remain closed until 
the alarm system has been repaired, 
and then it will reopen on its regular 
schedule.
Student Senate Minutes
STUDENT 
SENATE .
Meeting of 18 January 1994
Roll was taken at 7:05 pm. 
Meeting was called to order at 
7:11. '
Senators Present: Albert 
(CFA), Calhoon (GSIA), Carter 
(CIT), Cohen (SCS), DeMasi 
(MGS), Gach (CFA), Gannon 
(MCS), Goldman (HSS), Gonzalez 
.(MGS)i Gjant (Heinz),.Holgman 
(CIT), Kim (CFA), Kwon (CIT), 
Lan.day(SCS), McCullagh(Misc), 
Motley (CIT), OConnor (GSIA), 
' ingh (CFA), Turks (Hz),Wang 
CIT), White (H&SS).
Senators Absent: Baron 
(GSIA), Erives (M. at L.), Frey 
(CFA), Makhurjee (CIT), Ortega 
(CIT), Sawyer-Villers (CIT), 
Trexel (IM), Wallhausen (H&SS).
Approval of the Minutes:
Accepted.
Audience Participation:
I James LaPaglia, chief of Campus 
I Police, spoke about improvements 
in security for academic build
ings. He asked for Senates ad vice in this matter, especially con;; ceming short-term security.
Chair (Burt Holzman): There 
were resignations from Jim 
Langer (H&SS), Tony DeRoss 
I (MCS), Diane Jacobson (GSIA), 
and Jacqueline King (IM). There 
I are now vacancies in those posiI tions.
Special Business: Due to the
I resignation of Tony DeRoss, a 
new Campus Affairs chair must 
. ; be elected. Cheryl Gach was nominated and won by acclamation.
Ex-Officio Reports:
AB (Matt Adler): AB needs to 
fill all of its positions for 1994 and 
1995. Applications will be available at the Skibo Info Desk soon.
Events planned for this semes
ter: AB Coffeehouse will have a 
Night of Comedy at the end of 
January and Ray Manzarek with 
a beat poet in February. AB Con
certs will have John Zorn, a jazz 
musician from NYC, with a 13 
member band, in Skibo Ballroom 
on March 2.
SDC (Ben Wang): Movie on 
Saturday is The Blues Brothers 
at 5, 7:30,10 pm, and 12:30 am. 
Microwaves are now legal in the 
dorms. We will decide on what to 
do.,\yit.h the ;AT&T money soon. 
Our meetings are Wednesday 
nights in the Wherrett Room at 7 
pm.
Greek Council (Demian 
Johnston): None.
GSO (Tim Mallo): New officers 
were elected at our last meeting. 
President, Tim Mallo; vice presi
dent, Craig Brown; treasurer, 
Patrick Kane. Our next meeting 
is Wednesday, February 2, at 5:30 
pm in Skibo 12.
Faculty Senate (Michael 
Murphy): None.
Student Affairs (Pat 
Harned): None.
President (Dave Wolpert): 
None.
Treasurer (Declan McCullagh): None.
Committee Reports:
Academic Affairs (Dawn 
Wallhausen): None.
Campus Affairs (Cheryl 
Gach): None
Funding and Recognition
(Crystal Trexel): None.
Public Relations (Jim 
Albert): Petitions are due Sun
day, in order for one to be on the 
ballot in elections. We will have 
a Happy Hour on February 1 at 
6 pm in the Tartan Loft.
Human Resources (Moneet 
Singh): No food will be allowed 
in the Senate office from now on. 
Dont leave random papers ly
ing around the office or I will 
throw them into the recycling 
box.
Old Business: None.
New Business:
1. The new editor-in-chief of 
The Tartan, Andrew Sproule, in
troduced himself.
2. Motion to remove recogni
tion status from InterVarsity 
Christian Fellowship (IVCF). 
This will come up next meeting in 
Old Business.
Points of Discussion: Some
issues discussed were the new 
Senate elections.
Announcements:
 There are vacancies in 2 IM, 
2 H&SS, 1 MCS, 1 GSIA, 1 CIT. 
Deadline for petitions is January 
24.
 The Activities Fair is Thurs
day, January 20 from 4 to 7 pm in 
the Skibo Ballroom. [Ed. note: the 
Activities Fair was rescheduled 
for this Thursday.].
 There will be a memorial ser
vice for Seth Newton, a CFA fresh
man who passed away over break. 
The service will be held Thurs
day, January 20, at 4:30 pm in1 
the Mudge Lounge [Ed. note: the 
service was held Friday.].
 There will be a Spring Carni
val design and logo contest. The 
deadline is February 7 at 5:00 
pm. Applications are at the Skibo 
Info desk; the prize is $100.
Meeting adjourned at 7:45pm.
. THE
THREE-MONTH BIRTH CONTROL 
SHOT, IS NOW AVAILABLE AT 
PLANNED PARENTHOOD.
Call now for a confidential appointment 
to discuss your birth control options.
Downtown
Pittsburgh
434-8971
Sewickley
741-7626
Clairton
233-6001
PLANNED
PARENTHOOD
OF WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA
BRINGS YOU me BEST IN 
ENTERTAINMENT!
January 29 
| Comedy Nighf
Starring u)6MDV Li6MAM
n'irh special iniests Mitch Mullanv and Selected'.Hilarity J^y
7:30pm Skibo Ballroom . 4
Tickets on sale at Skibo Info Desk 
$3 students, $5 faculty/ staff, $10 general public
Syracuse University
Division of International Programs Abroad 
119 Euclid Avenue 
Syracuse, New York 13244-4170 
1-800-235-3472
SYRACUSE ABROAD
Something to write home about!
 Programs in Africa, Australia, Belgium, Czech Republic, England, 
France, Germany, Hungary, Israel, Italy, Poland, and Spain
 Prior foreign language not always necessary
 SU credit
 Field trips/travelling seminars
 Internships
 Study for a semester, a year, or a summer
 Home or limited apartment spaces
February 11
ScUl&VML ScUietf, TfoUcAiMHt,
4 time 
Campus 
Entertainer 
of the Year 
- National 
Association 
of Campus 
Activities
J1er music mill warm your heart.
8pm Sldbo Ballroom
March 12
A Ni5Vit of Voctrn Atib Piamo
with beat 
poet Michael 
McClure and 
flLay Manzarek. 
formerly of 
the Doors
8pm Skibo Ballroom
All shows are funded by your student activities fee

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Mehrabian ignores 
cold weather dangers
Last Wednesday, Pittsburgh 
experienced a record-breaking 
cold at -22 degrees. Governor 
Bob Casey declared a state of 
emergency. lie requested that 
all businesses remain closed if 
possible. State police and the 
health department suggested 
that no one leave their homes 
except for emergencies. All state 
offices were closed. Almost all 
schools closed. However, for the 
majority of the day, CMU and 
most other universities re
mained open.
President Robert Mehrabian 
decided to close the university 
at 2 pm. The reason given was 
that Dusquesne Light threat
ened rolling blackouts if the 
demand for power did not lessen. 
We think a better reason would 
have been concern for the cam
pus community.
Not everyone lives on campus. 
A good percentage of people liv
ing off campus probably dont 
own cars and must find alter
nate methods to get to campus. 
In freezing temperatures, being 
outside is dangerous.
We are not trying to sound 
peevish, because we realize that 
others braved the cold to go to 
work. However, it seems ridicu
lous that the school was open, 
with most people traveling dur
ing the most dangerous times, 
only to be closed because of
Newspapers in general are 
relatively predictable  theres 
the news section, the sports sec
tion, and the comics, usually 
along with living and entertain
ment sections. Often, there is 
very little opportunity to re
spond to what we see in print. 
At The Tartan, we find a lot of 
value in the exchange and clash 
of ideas. The Forum pages are 
pur way of fostering free ex
change of ideas, so we try to 
provide a spectrum of opinions 
to allow you, our readers, to be 
the judges.
To that end, youll find the 
following types of pieces in this 
section:
 Editorials always appear in 
the leftmost columns of the first 
Forum page. They are unsigned 
because they represent a con
sensus opinion of The Tartans 
Editorial Board.
While we believe our editori
als offer sensible, accurate com
mentary, please feel free to dis
agree with us  we dont have a 
monopoly on the truth. As a 
matter of fact, we would love to 
know what you think of what 
!we think. An excellent means to 
'do this is to write a letter to the 
editor.
 Letters to the Editor may be 
submitted by anybody, although 
Iwhen space gets tight we will 
iavor letters from members of 
;the University community. As 
readers, you should realize that
; opinions represented in a letter 
are those of the author and not 
of The Tartan. All letters are 
: subj ect to editing for size  let
ters cant be more than 500 
; words  and grammar. But we 
! never edit for content.
power shortages. Mehrabian 
said this is the first time, while 
students were attending classes, 
in a long time. He also said that 
the university would lose hun
dreds of thousands of dollars by 
closing the school. We wonder if 
money was the main reason that 
the school didnt close.
The policy of never closing 
should be reconsidered by the 
administration. Is keeping the 
school running at all times 
worth someone getting hurt, or 
killed? We dont think so. How
ever, if this is to remain the 
case, some practices need to 
change.
Shuttle and escort services 
need to be improved. On the day 
that the school closed, only one 
of the shuttles was immediately 
operational and the escort ser
vice never ran that night. There
fore, people living in outlying 
areas (other than Shadyside) 
had to find alternate ways to
 get home. They couldnt use the 
schools limited service, nor 
could they catch a bus because 
PAT shut down after 3 pm.
We condemn Mehrabian for 
his lack of consideration towards 
the people of CMU. This is the 
second time in less than a year 
when the well being of the cam
pus community has been disre
garded. We demand that in the 
future more concern be shown.
Of course, we reserve the right 
to reject letters we feel are libel
ous, obscene, or incoherent. But 
well be glad to discuss any let
ter with the author and see if we 
can reach a compromise. How
ever, in order to have such a 
discussion, we need to know who 
you are. We are willing to with
hold the authors name from a 
letter to the editor, but our editor-in-chief does need to know 
who wrote it. Please, dont send 
us anonymous letters  it just 
frustrates us because we have 
no way to contact you, and it 
annoys you because your letter 
doesnt get published.
 Persons Opinion is just that
 the opinions of randomly 
polled persons, usually students 
at CMU, on a different question 
or concern each week. The 
people in Persons Opinion have 
no affiliation with The Tartan, 
and as such, their opinions are 
in no way related to The Tar
tan.
 Columns are regularly ap
pearing opinion pieces pre
sented by individuals who are 
usually members of the CMU 
community. Unsolicited col
umns generally cannot be used, 
though if you feel the desire to 
contribute regularly, contact the 
Forum editor. Opinions in these 
columns are those of the colum
nist and not of The Tartan. 
Again, feel free to disagree with 
them and to let them know, 
through a Letter to the Editor.
That about sums up the Fo
rum section. We hope it makes 
for some thought-provoking 
reading, and were always open 
to suggestions for ways to im
prove it.
Armed citizenry 
is a safeguard
Editor:
David Hunt makes 
some excellent points 
regarding the use of 
firearms by private 
citizens to deter crime 
[Self-protection is a 
fundamental right, 1/17]. Jeffrey 
Snyder, in an article published in The 
Public Interest about the individual right 
to self-defense, illustrates the hypocrisy 
of most gun control when he writes ... a 
state that deprives its law-abiding citi
zens of the means to effectively defend 
themselves is not civilized but barba
rous, becoming an accomplice of mur
derers, rapists, and thugs and revealing 
its totalitarian nature by its tacit admis
sion that the disorganized, random havoc 
created by criminals is far less a threat 
than are men and women who believe 
themselves free and independent, and 
act accordingly.
Some people may fear arms in the 
hands of the private citizen, predicting 
chaos in the streets. This is not the case, 
however. Snyder points out that only 
two percent of civilian shootings involved 
an innocent person mistakenly identi
fied as a criminal, while the error rate 
for the police was over five times that at 
11 percent.
Gary Klecks research (referred to in 
Hunts column) additionally shows that 
armed citizens kill two to three thou
sand criminals each year, three times 
the number killed by police.
Laws that seek to deny the honest, 
law-abiding citizen ownership of a fire
arm are being proposed with regularity 
these days. Their stated intent is to curb
crime, but in actuality they will only 
abet the criminal in his misdeeds by 
removing one of the strongest crime de
terrents available: the armed citizen.
Seth Eliot 
Graduate Student 
MSE
Gun control 
laws stop crime
Editor:
I am writing to 
comment on David 
Hunts editorial 
[Self-protection is a 
fundamental right,
1/17]. He argued 
that we should have guns for self-protec
tion because they are effective, because 
criminals will have guns anyway, and 
because we cant count on the police.
Are guns effective? He gave us some 
anecdotal evidence and told us that there 
are approximately 645,000 such inci
dents per year, based on surveys. In how 
many of those incidents were the results 
as good as in his stories? How many 
involved innocent bystanders being hurt? 
How many cases are there in which a 
person killed an unarmed burglar in 
self-defense?
How do criminals get the guns? They 
get them because they exist, and be
cause law-abiding citizens can get 
them. The license you need to own guns, 
even semi-automatic ones, is easy to get 
if you have no criminal record. Someone 
with a license to own such guns can buy 
them cheaply and sell them to criminals 
and minors for huge profit.
In addition, legally owned guns can be 
stolen. Hunt stated that 80 percent of 
illegally owned guns were stolen, and
half of those were stolen from police. If 
only police had guns, criminals would 
have to steal from police to acquire them. 
According to Hunts statistics, that alone 
could reduce illegal guns by more than
40 percent. And a better tracking sys
tem for police-owned guns could decrease 
the number of guns made available 
through corruption in the police force.
Why cant we count on the police? 
They have too much to do. There are too 
many crimes and not enough police. If 
we dont want to spend money on more 
police, we need to reduce crime.
If we manage to reduce the number of 
illegally owned guns by 50 percent, the 
police force would be more effective. If 
the police force was more effective, not 
only could we remove more illegal guns 
from circulation, but police would have 
more time to respond to our calls.
The limitations of the police force are 
the real issues here. Hunt states that 
police must be called to help us, but if 
our criminal justice system were more 
effective, fewer people would consider 
committing a crime.
No one commits a crime if they expect 
to get Caught. A 95 percent conviction 
rate would be a significant deterrent, so 
more potential crimes would never be 
committed, and police wouldnt be so 
taxed.
Criminals have guns because every
one has guns. Somewhere along the line, 
a person decides to become a criminal. 
Without guns, how many people would 
ever commit crimes using guns? It all 
comes down to the fact that we are a gunowning society, and until that changes 
we will have gun-related crime.
Robert Huss 
Graduate Student 
Chemical Engineering
Anti-sodomy laws violate privacy
I was reading the news the other day when I came upon an 
article that caught my interest. It was about a recent case 
that came before the Texas Supreme Court. A lower court in 
Texas had overturned the states anti-sodomy law. The 
Texas Supreme Court overturned the ruling because appar
ently no one in the actual case had been convicted of sodomy.
This column isnt about that case, however. The Texas case 
is merely an example of jurisprudence, not of bigotry. It got 
me thinking, though, about the concept of sodomy as crime, 
and the right to privacy that we all seem to cherish as 
Americans.
Do we, as Americans, have a right to privacy? Im not a 
constitutional scholar, and this may eliminate my chances of 
being nominated to the Supreme Court, but I must say yes. 
Suppose a state government, such as that of Texas, or the 
federal government decided that, to enforce their anti
sodomy laws, theyd be peeking into our bedrooms to detect 
acts of sodomy. There would be a constitutional uproar, even 
if the sex police were to have probable cause to believe acts 
of sodomy were being committed.
Why, then, is sodomy illegal in many states? Why is 
sodomy incompatible with military service? Why is what 
people do in the privacy of their own bedroom the business 
of the government?
Theres one reason, and it can be traced to a book that was 
written upwards of two thousand years ago. I am, of course, 
referring to the Holy Bible, or at least the Christian version 
thereof.
Now before all you Bible thumpers get yourselves all in a
huff, I have no intention of condemning the Bible or the lessons 
taught therein. Nor will I deny the role of some sort of absolute 
morality in the making of laws and government. But please, 
keep out of my bedroom. You can call me a radical liberal, but 
whatever two (or more) rational and consenting adults do in 
the privacy of their own bedroom should be far beyond the 
reach of Uncle Sam. If what they do is immoral in someones 
set of beliefs, then so be it. If they will burn forever in the fiery 
depths of Hell for what they do, fine. But keep the government 
out of it.
What really aggravates me about these laws is their unfair 
treatment of homosexuals. Anti-sodomy laws are used exclu
sively for the persecution of homosexuals, as a basis for 
barring their access to the military and denying them the right 
to adopt children or gain custody of their own.
Perhaps you remember the case, not too long ago, about the 
woman whose child was taken away from her because she was 
a lesbian. The judges conclusion: Shes a sodomite, and there
fore, an unfit mother. Im quite certain that if the same 
judgment were made against a heterosexual, constitutional 
outrage would be heard loud and clear across the land.
Anti-sodomy laws are unenforceable, outdated, puritanical, 
and unfairly enforced. They are throwbacks to a bygone age 
which has also left us with bigotry, cultural isolationism, and 
blue laws. They should be purged from our law books forever.
I am of the firm belief that every American has a right to 
privacy that cant be infringed upon by the government. Anti
sodomy laws severely infringe not only on my right to privacy, 
but also on my right to practice, or not practice, my religion the 
way I please. If the government insists on snooping in our 
bedrooms, how long will it be before we are observed by gia^1 
view screens, with Big Brother always watching?
Jason Specland is a sophomore H&SS student. You can 
listen to Specland along with Chris Morrow every Friday at 
pm on the WRCT talk show, The Worlds Address.
Forum supplies open 
arena for community
on
Letter to 
the Editor
on
Letter to tho Editor
Letter to 
the Editor

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  24 January 19947
Right to life movement is misguided
Over the holidays I visited my grandfa
ther. A number of years ago he had a 
stroke, which left him unable to talk, walk, 
or care for himself. My grandmother cared 
for him until she died of cancer. A short 
while after she died, he was placed in a 
nursing home, as none of his family was 
able to provide 24-hour care.
When I walked in to his room, he was 
itting in his wheelchair without his hair 
combed, his dentures in, or his glasses on. 
y[y past experience with him has taught 
me that he is aware, for there have been 
many times that he has tried to tell me 
something or ask me a question, only to 
give up with a wave of his usable hand.
This time, however, he barely acknowl
edged my presence. After a few minutes of 
tailing him what had been going on in my 
life, he waved me out of the room. I asked 
him if he wanted me to go, and he nodded 
yithout looking at me. As I left, he was 
:;ill sitting in the same position as when I 
arrived, staring at nothing. My mother 
and sister have also recently experienced 
this behavior from him, which has been
Matt Ball
getting worse.
People criticize Jack Kevorkian for not 
respecting life, for playing God. This 
accusation is absurd, given the God-playing we all do daily. From how we spend our 
money to how we cast our ballots to what 
we choose to eat, we make decisions that 
affect the lives and deaths of many beings 
in the world.
But what of those who do not wish to live 
any longer, whose lives are destined to be 
comprised entirely of misery? Just as it is 
in our power to play God and save lives by 
healing many diseases that afflict people, 
it is in our power to provide those termi
nally suffering with an end to their pain. 
Must ones right to life be a sentence of 
endless pain?
There is no right to life, or even respect for 
life in this society, for we continually create, 
manipulate, enslave, and end weaker lives for 
the benefit of the stronger. 
It is generally the right to life people 
who holler the loudest against Kevorkian, 
going so far as to call him a murderer. 
These people would contend that my grand
father has a right to life, a fact I do not 
dispute. My grandfather should not be 
killed by me because I dont want to feel 
guilty for not visiting him. Neither should 
he be left to die on the streets because 
taxpayers dont want to pay his medical 
bills anymore. No one should take the life 
of an innocent person who has the desire to 
live, or anyone whose life has value to 
themselves.
There is no right to life, or even respect 
for life in this society, for we continually 
create, manipulate, enslave, and end 
weaker lives for the benefit of the stron
ger.
Those who would have it be the equiva
lent of murder for a woman to take a few 
pills and prevent the blastocysta sphere 
of undifferentiated cellsfrom completely 
implanting in the womb, leave their abor
tion protests and return home to feast on 
the flesh of a formerly fully feeling animal, 
a being who wanted to live. Perhaps they 
will have beef stew, with chunks of the
corpse of a dairy cow whose entire life 
was lived indoors, a mother who had 
given birth to a number of young only to 
have them stolen away and killed for 
veal. For a few years, the mothers milk 
was vacuum-extracted for peoples ce
real, until she was dragged to slaughter, 
shackled by her rear leg and hoisted 
upside-down, and her throat slit. After 
struggling, breaking bones and tearing 
ligaments, she finally bled to death, only 
to be dismembered to provide succor to 
those who spent a day fighting for life.
In defense of eating animals, it is often 
said that God gave us animals for our 
use. In opposition to Kevorkian, it is 
said, Only God gives life, and only God 
should take life.
According to the right-to-lifers, God 
has set up a world in which my grandfa
ther is condemned to sit and suffer for 
days, weeks, and months until he slowly 
and painfully dies, while other animals 
are raised in intensive confinement, for 
the purpose of dying to satisfy our hab
its.
If God created the world to be this way, 
then it is we who must be merciful and 
compassionate, for God is clearly callous 
and cruel.
Matt Ball is a PhD student in engi
neering and public policy.Penis hooks media on the Bobbitt case
Declan McCullagh
This column is about penises. 
Not just penises in general, but 
about one specific penis: John 
Bobbitts.
By now, everyone knows about 
Lorenas mincing and Johns 
wincing. But how could one mans 
penis have caused such an up
roar? Perhaps because even the 
most famous penises  John F. 
Kennedys, Casanovashad the 
decency to stay put.
t all started when John 
Bobbitt, a former Marine, mar
ried Lorena Bobbitt in 1989.
According to her, their mar
riage quickly degenerated into a 
nightmare of abuse, humiliation, 
and forced anal sex. She survived 
until one night last June -when 
her husband stumbled home 
drunk, raped her, and fell asleep. 
Then she snapped.
According to him, their mar
riage wasnt that bad, although 
l\e did date other women. On the 
fateful night of June 22, he went 
barhopping with a friend, then 
came home and had consensual 
sex with his wife.
After he went to sleep, Lorena 
Bobbitt entered the bedroom, 
lifted the sheets, and sliced off 
the instrument of her torture - 
her husbands penis. I felt a pull,
' a jerk on my penis ... I thought 
she had torn everything off my 
body, John Bobbitt said. His wife 
Jjrebutted, Hes selfish ... So I 
pulled back the sheets and I did it 
I pulled the sheets up and cut
Rim.
Later that night, John Bobbitts 
penis was found in a vacant lot 
near a 7-Eleven, where Lorena 
Bobbitt had thrown it from her 
car window. It was reattached in 
a 9-1/2 hour operation.
John Bobbitt was tried for rape 
last November and acquitted. 
Lorena Bobbitt was charged with 
malicious wounding, and last 
week was found innocent by rea
son of insanity and committed to 
a state mental hospital.
It seems as though journalists
 this writer included  arent 
really interested in the truth of 
this case.
After all, without the lop-offthe-penis trick, Lorena and John 
Bobbitt would be just another 
obscure, pathetic couple instead 
of media stars with their own 
publicity agents, talk show ap
pearances, and future book deals. 
Instead of being interested in 
what really happened  instead 
of trying to find out whos lying 
about what  journalists have 
concentrated on exploiting every 
opportunity to use the word pe
nis in an article or news broad
cast.
Thats right, penis. In case 
you dont get it, Ill remind you: 
penis. After all, journalists are 
a timid bunch by nature, more 
used to talking about MLAs (mul
tiple letter acronyms) like DOD, 
FBI, NAFTA, GATT  all of 
which are about as interesting as 
talkingtoyour great-aunt Martha 
about the state of her dental 
health (awful, if you really want 
to know).
Now, however, this mousy 
bunch of reporters has found a 
story that requires the use of the 
word penis. In fact, its impos
sible to write about the Bobbitts 
without using the word penis
 after all, a reporter cant very 
well say, John Bobbitt lost his 
little willie earlier this month. 
Reporters are taking advantage 
of this opportunity to free them
selves from the drudgery of writ
ing about more important things, 
like whether Bill Clinton really 
did boink some babes in the back 
of a state troopers car when he 
was governor. Stories like that,
in lionizing the penis of John 
Bobbitt.
Perhaps because of this, the 
Bobbitt case has encouraged some 
knock-off penis-mutilating po
seurs. Recently, a Texas woman 
poured sulfuric acid on her naked 
husbands lap. In Los Angeles, 
a woman used a 5-inch pair of 
shears to cut off her husbands 
testicles, which were never re
covered.
Besides their husbands, who
"... without the lop-off-the-penis trick, 
Lorena and John Bobbitt would be 
just another obscure, pathetic couple 
instead of media stars with their own 
publicity agents, talk show appear
ances, and future book deals. 
while titillating, dont require the 
word penis in the writing.
Out of all the news organiza
tions, The Washington Post seems 
to be the most prone to penis 
prose. Over the past few years, it 
mentioned penis in an average 
of 26 stories per year. By com
parison, the newspaper ran over 
130 articles mentioning penis 
in the five months after the 
Bobbitt incident. They just cant 
get enough.
This kind of media excitement 
has made John Bobbitts formerly 
unassuming reproductive organ 
the most famous penis in the 
world, with news organizations 
from as far away as Britain and 
Germany joining domestic media
have obviously lost this round in 
the great battle of the sexes, there 
are plenty of other winners and 
losers.
The winners: ABC and NBC, 
which aired detailed coverage of 
the Bobbitt saga; The New Yorker, 
which had veteran journalist Gay 
Talese on Bobbitt duty for 
months; The Washington Post, 
which devoted 133 articles to cov
ering the lurid events in nearby 
Manassas; the Comedy Channel 
and late-night talk shows, which 
welcomed a new source of oneliners (Pepsi has signed up John 
Bobbitt to promote a soft drink: 
Slice); Court TV, which doubled 
its ratings; radio personality 
Howard Stern, who interviewed
John Bobbitt on the air and in
vited him to a New Years Eve 
pay-per-view video bash where 
he was offered $15,000 to pull 
down his pants; a Toyota dealer 
from whom John Bobbitt was ru
mored to have purchased a 
$45,000 Supra with talk-show 
money; vendors who hawked tshirts outside the courthouse 
(Love Hurts); 100 U.S. men in 
Ecuador who were threatened 
with castration by Ecuadorian 
feminists if Lorena Bobbitt was 
convicted; and Lorena Bobbitt, 
who was committed to a state 
mental hospital for only 45 days.
The losers: CBS, which decided 
to remain aloof from the Bobbitt 
fray; Gay Talese, who had to 
spend months hearing about how 
another man had his penis lopped 
off; The New York Times, which 
ran less than 50 articles about 
Bobbitts perambulating penis; 
Howard Sterns viewing audi
ence, who were spared the sight 
of Bobbitts reattached penis; the 
Ecuadorian feminists who didnt 
have an excuse to castrate 100 
U.S. men; the American people, 
who were bombarded by Bobbittnews instead of coverage of 
Clintons European trip and the 
Whitewater scandal; and, of 
course, John Bobbitt himself, who 
doesnt know if he can ever have 
sex again.
No matter who won and who 
lost, everyone but John and 
Lorena Bobbitt seems to agree on 
one thing: the two of them de
serve each other.
Declan McCullagh is a senior 
cognitive science major who takes 
every opportunity to use the word 
penis in print.
A PERSONS
RMICIRC
i
Last week, Carnegie 
Mellon closed down Wednes
day afternoon and all day 
Thursday in compliance 
with Pennsylvanias state of 
emergency. Students braved 
record low temperatures to 
come to class Wednesday, 
only to learn the university 
was closed in the middle of 
the day. How did you find 
out CMU was closed?
Brian Fitzpatrick
Freshman
English
From the little signs in 
Morewood.
Rahul Verma
Junior
CS/Math
Campus Security.
Gloria Ju
Senior
Biology
I was using email, so I found 
out from the message of the day.
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Photographer
Paul Jones
Freshman
Civil Engineering
I called up the Campus Po
lice and they told me school was 
closed. I heard they werent sup
posed to tell us  is that bad?
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper 
Since 1906
Editor-in-chief........Andrew Sproule
Managing Ed......Samuel Greenfield
Business Mgr..............Lauren Heinz
News Editor.................Jason Togyer'
Forum Editor...............Abby Schiff
Sports Editor...............Eric Strauss
Features Co-Editors.....Tonya Rado
Kathleen Wright 
Diversions Co-Editors ....John Biggs 
Tara Zane
Calendar Editor......Brockett Horne
Dossier Literary Co-Eds. Aimee Beal 
Germain E. DeSeve VIII 
Dossier Dsgn Ed. ..R. J. McGinness
Art Co-Editors.............Mark Eggert
Ramsey Hong
Photo Co-Editors.............Jim Snyder
Jennifer Urso
Production Mgr............Katie Swango
Acting Copy Mgr........Jennifer Forbes
Personnel Manager ..Frank Michels
Systems Mgr...........Chad McDaniel
Asst. News Editor......Eric Salzman
Asst. Forum Ed............Kris Hinrichs
Asst. Sports Co-Eds.......Anuj Gupta
Carolyn Skarada 
Asst. Production Mgr. Derek Wahila
Photo Staff Member....David Perry
Darkroom Manager......Daniel Frey
Contributing Editors 
Keegan Folk, Laura McClure, 
Brendan McFeely, Tina L. Urso
Senior Staff 
Tony deFigio, David Hunt, Janice 
McClure
Staffwriters 
Matt Adler, Nicole Allen, Jason 
Andracki, Matt Ball, Jennifer Barkin, 
Kymberly M. Bartlo, David Bazelon, 
Allan Bourdius, Zhuohan Cai, Mahua 
Dutta, Jessica Fang, Andi Francioni, 
Andy Glendinning, Tom Harper, Ed
ward Hayes, Jason Heinlein, Micki 
Kochanskyj, Rich Kwiatkowski, Jus
tin Lam, Declan McCullagh, Mat
thew Messner, Ronak Singhal, Ja
son Specland, Rhonda Struminger, 
Susan Stuart, Jennifer Turner, John 
Weber, Gary Wilson, Erik Witte
Comics
Jeffe Boates, Matt Goldberg, Mark 
Kantrowitz, Dexter Kobayashi
Photo
Vineet Agarwal, Kevin Chen, Bassem 
El-Dasher Andrew Flores, Andrew 
McDermott, Jim Snyder, Maria 
Valenti
Darkroom 
Jon Confer, Tom Gilbert, Margaret 
Stallings
Production 
Becky Elroy, Michael Gibson, Jason 
Ma, Carrie McDonough, Eric Pettus, 
Jenna Sweterlitsch
Copy
Roshni Bhakta, Madhav Ghanta, 
Yerin Kay, Lisa Kruglak, Eileen 
OShea, Ed Slavishak, Elizabeth 
Zambelli
Business 
Christa Bower, Dan Goldstein, Rich
ard Lin, Rose Mills, Olivia Raharja, 
Monica Roisman, Chintan Shah
Junior Staff 
Jin Bae, James S. Brown, Adam Darby, 
Sunanda Desai, Etan Diamond, Dan 
Goldwasser, Adam Gross, D. Renee 
Hairston, Rachel Hass, Eugene Hong, 
Sharona Jacobs, Mark Kantrowitz, 
Markus Kassbohrer, Brian Kidder, 
Ken Kraemer, Nina Liang, Buck Neel, 
Elizabeth Neuman, Jesse Nice, Nicole 
Nowitz, Emily Pihlquist, Pat 
Prasangsit, Leanna Surina, Bethany 
Sutton, Gabe Symons, Daniella Topol, 
Roger Wang, Ron Yang, Calvin Yao, 
Brian Young
The Tartan is the student newspaper of Carnegie 
Mellon University. It is a weekly newspaper pub
lished by students during the fall and spring 
semesters, at no cost to members of the Univer
sity community. It is printed by Western Pennsylvania Printing, Inc. Subscriptions are available for 
the semester or academic year. The editorials 
appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The Tartan editorial 
board. Columns and political cartoons are the 
opinions of individual creators. The Tartan re
serves the right to reject or condense any column 
or political cartoon. Letters to the Editor are opinions of authors who are usually, but not 
necessarily, members of the University commu
nity. A letter intended for publication must be signed and include the writer's address and phone 
number for verification. Names will be withheld 
upon request. The Tartan requests that letters be 
no longer than 500 words. The Tartan reserves 
the right to condense or reject any letter. Copyright 
1993 by The Tartan. The Tartan editorial board 
reserves the right to withhold from publication any 
copy it deems unfit for publication.
Office: Skibo 50 (412) 268-2111 
Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/Camegie 
Mellon University/Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890 
Funded in part by your Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN #: 0890-3107.

---------------------------------------------------

SENIORS!
One last chance!
Have your Senior Photo taken for 
The 1994 THISTLE Yearbook
Monday, January 31 to Friday, February 4 
9:30am until 5:00pm 
Skibo room 45
Call x82121 with questions.
Walk-ins accepted! 
RETAKES ALSO DONE!
Introducing the new Apple Computer Loan. Right now, with this spe- January 28,1994, your first payment is deferred for 90 days. Its an
cial financing program from Apple, you can buy select Macintosh* and incredible deal no matter how you slice it. So, why should you buy an
PowerBook* computers for about $30* a month. Or about a dollar a Apple computer? It does more. It costs less. Its that simple. ,
day. (You could qualify with just a phone call.) And if you apply by 111
Visit your Apple Campus Reseller for more information.
Visit the Carnegie Mellon Computer Store 
or call 268-2636
About a dollar a slice. About a dollar a day
'Monthly payment is an estimate based on an Apple Computer Loan of $1,446for the Macintosh 1C 475 system shown above. Price and loan amount are based on Affile's estimate ofhigher education prices as of October 21,1993 Ml computer system prices, loan amounts and monthly payments may nary. See your Apple Campus 
Reseller for current system prices. A 55% loan origination fee will be added to the requested loan amount. The interest rate is lariable, based on the commercial paper rate plus535% For the month of October 993, be interest rate was 851%, with an APR of9-80%. 8-year loan term with no prepayment penalty. The monthly payment 
shown assumes no deferment ofprincipal or interest (deferment will change your monthly'payments). Tie Apple Computer Loan is subject to credit approval. 1993Apple Computer, Inc. All rights reserved Apple, the Apple logo, Macintosh and PowerBook are registered tradenmris ofApple Computer, Inc
Thin crustpepperoni. Extra cheese. No anchovies.The Macintosh LC 475 4/80, Apple Color 
Plus 14"Display, Apple Keyboard II and mouse.
f

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
Tartans struggle against UAA foes
Men lose to Brandeis, New York U.
By JOHN WEBER
Tartan Staffwriter
The mens basketball team 
started off the weekend hosting 
the Brandeis Judges. The Judges 
were 3-2 in the UAA while the 
Tartans were 31. Sophomore 
Kevin Byrne got the 
Tartans started early 
as he scored six of the 
Tartans first nine 
points. However, sev
en minutes into the 
game, Brandeis Chris 
Schnieder hit a threepointer to give the 
Judges a 17-14 lead.
Schnieder, a junior, 
was on his way to a 
great game. Five min
utes later he nailed 
another three^pointer 
to give Brandeis a 25-
23 lead. Brandeis 
never trailed the rest 
of the game. The 
jjndges had six threey :inters in the first 
half to help build a 
nine-point 4536 lead 
at the half.
The Tartans de
fense was ineffective 
imthe first half. While 
they were tough in
side, they did not pres
sure Schnieder and 
the other Brandeis guards as they 
attempted three-pointer after 
three-pointer. Also, Tartan coach 
Tony Wingen felt that the 
Brandeis press hurt us [offen
sively] early in the game.
At the beginning of the second 
half the Tartans came to life. 
Byrae, senior Derek Dragisich, 
and sophomore Gregg Lassan 
combined to help the Tartans 
narrow the margin. And when 
senior guard Mike Hosni 
threaded the needle to Drag
isich inside for another basket
Then Kevin Coffey stole the ball 
and scored. So in less than a 
minute and a half the Tartans 
went from being tied to being 
behind by seven. They never re
covered. The Judges built their 
lead to 11 with 9:33 left and then 
again with 5:36 left. Then when
Bassem El-Dasher/Tartan Photographer 
Senior Derek Dragisich drives for a bucket against Brandeis.
the Tartans tried to come back, it 
was Schneider who stopped them; 
this time from the foul line.
Schneider made his last six foul 
shots to keep the Judges in con
trol. Then with only 37 seconds 
left the Tartans tried one last 
comeback. First senior Matt 
Reiprish hit a three-pointer to 
draw the Tartans within six (77- Johns nailed a field goal just 
71), then after Brandeis added inside the three-point line to cut 
another point, Byrne hit another the NYU lead to three. After
this game. Schneider had five 
three-pointers and was nine for 
10 from the foul line with 30 
total points. He is a very dan
gerous player ... said Wingen 
after the game, We lost him a 
couple of times.
Sunday, the Tartans faced off 
against the New 
York University 
Violets. Coming into 
the game the Vio
lets were 6-0 in the 
UAA and 13-2 over
all. Early on the 
game was very 
physical. The Tar
tans fell behind 
early and never 
seemed to get it go
ing the rest of the 
first half. From the 
17 minute mark un
til the end of the half, 
NYU led by at least 
four points but 
never more than 10. 
The Tartans held 
their own physi
cally, but like on Fri
day, had trouble 
against the press. 
NYU, despite their 
size, had trouble get
ting it inside on the 
Tartans, but the 
Tartans missed 
some shots late in 
the first half that could have 
trimmed the NYU lead. New 
York University went into the 
locker room at half with a 37-30 
lead.
As on Friday, the Tartans 
started off the second half with a 
scoring run. Less than two min
utes into the half, senior Rony
New York answered with a bas
ket of their own, senior Charlie 
Conners scored a basket and 
then with 16:49 left Conners fed 
Johns to cut the NYU lead to one 
point. Then after an NYU time
three-pointer with only 10 sec
onds left to make it 78-74. But it 
was too littlethe Tartans didnt 
with 16:05 left, the Tartans found get any more points and lost the
themselves in a tied game, 49- game 79-^74.
49. In the first four minutes, the Byrne led the Tartans with 18 r_...
Tartans had outscored the Judges points and 10 rebounds followed out, Hosni assisted on a
13-4. by Dragisich who had 13 points. Dragisich basket to give the
However, Brandeis answered Also Lassan racked up six points
the Tartans run with one of their and six rebounds for the Tartans,
own. Chris Shea made a three- The Tartans missed some baspoint play when he scored and kets late in the game that could
then was fouled. Then Schnieder have made it more interesting,
hit two shots from the foul line, but it was Schneider who won
Tartans their first lead of the 
afternoon, 41-40. But the Vio
lets took the lead back one 
minute and 11 seconds later on 
a field goal by Jonathan Gabriel.
Please see TARTANS, page 11
Women split two league contests
By CAROLYN SKARADA
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
The womens basketball team 
battled it out for a close and 
exciting win over the Brandeis 
University Judges on Friday, 
January 21 in Skibo gymna
sium. The final 
score was 56-41, 
with the Tartans 
leading a majority 
of the game. Over
all, the women 
played a solid game 
holding their own 
and also with an 
aggressive defense.
Head coach Gerri 
Seidl started with 
her usual five: se
nior co-captains 
Jeanine Megahan 
and Mary Moore, 
junior Jenny Gretz, 
and freshmen Kris
ten Kupfer and 
Penny Summer
ville. Siedl did how
ever make use of her 
subs generously to,
give different play
ers some experi
ence.
Since there is a 
large percentage of 
freshmen players on 
the team, Seidl is 
trying to teach them the college 
game. She commented that cur
rently her objective is to work 
on their ability to read the situ
ations on the court since col
lege basketball is a much faster 
pace than high school. Under
standing the reality of a young 
team, were pretty much where 
we thought wed be.
Carnegie Mellon proved to 
play well together. There was a 
certain cohesive element which 
.carried throughout the game 
and maintained the momen
tum. It seemed Brandeis had 
some individual talent, but they 
were not quite as unified. Seidl 
mentioned that they were most 
concerned about two guards on 
Brandeis. However, when it 
came down to it, co-captain 
Moore did an excellent job de
fensively on their inside guard, 
6'1" co-captain Shayna Adelson.
Starting off the game with a
shot made by Kupfer, CMU im
mediately took the lead. The game 
remained in their favor for most 
of the first half until the last six 
seconds when Brandeis jumped 
ahead to 17-14. Summerville con
sistently made impressive wide 
baskets while Megahan took conJim Snyder/Tartan Photo Co-Editor 
Senior Jeanine Megahan dishes the ball to a teammate.
trol of the action and led the way 
back to a tied score. Junior 
Christa Sober, who has returned 
for the end of the season from a 
semester abroad in Vienna, en
tered the game early on in the 
first half. Freshmen Tracey Bach,
Tracy Coalter, and Daphne Har
ris, had some playing time as 
well.
The game was nearly tied to
wards the end of the first half that is ranked third in the region, 
said, out of breath, Im tired.
The . second half of the game 
was very frustrating as Brandeis 
continued to trail behind by two 
points. Gretz (18 points) and 
Megahan (15 points) were top 
scorers.
During the second half, Seidl 
decided to try a dif
ferent strategy, a 2- 
man-game offense. 
This worked very 
well, except that it 
was a complicated 
offense and so the 
upperclassmen took 
over. In fact, the only 
freshman on the 
court was Summer- j 
ville.
At the very end j 
of the game, with 1 
only 30 seconds left,  
Megahan took control of the ball, 
bringing the score 
up to 52-36. The fi- : 
nal shot of the game J 
was made by Sum- [ 
merville.
Reflecting on the 
game, Seidl would . 
have liked fewer 
turnovers. As it  
stood though, with j
41 turnovers and ? 
they still won the j 
game, they were do- \ 
ing something right.
As for the season up to this j 
point, the Tartans have been play-j 
ing 12 teams that are ranked and i 
thats half of the total games in i 
their season. Weve been close  
with high caliber, ranked teams, j 
but we want to beat them, Seidl; 
said.
On Sunday, the womens team \ 
suffered a 74-52 loss to the team I
until Gretz made a beautiful shot 
at 2:40 left changing the score to 
19-18. From this point on, CMU 
maintained favor and set the pace 
for the rest of the game.
An interesting half time activ
ity grabbed the audiences atten
tion when ten-year-old Alex Prizzi 
shot more baskets during a free 
throw competition than an adult 
fan. He was ecstatic to win bus 
fare tickets and free pizza from 
Pizza Bella, in Shadyside. When 
asked how he felt afterward, he
with a record of 12-1,6-1 in UAA 
play: New York University.
The game started off well with ? 
the usual five starters. Carnegie j 
Mellon was ahead by a substan- ' 
tial margin, the score being 19-3 ; 
half way through the first half. \ 
Moore contributed a majority of ! 
the points here, playing an excel-1 
lent game. Also, Gretz had a ! 
couple of nice outside shots. The j 
NYU Violets were shaken up at  
this point, as the Tartans rallied ' 
Please see WOMEN, page 11 ;
Tartans triumph in final home swim meet
By CAROLYN SKARADA
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
The Mens and Womens swim team 
slaughtered Bethany on Saturday with 
a final point score of 98-50 for the men 
land 88-65 for the women, with Bethany 
taking a mere one event in the womens 
competition. Carnegie Mellon, with twice 
as many swimmers as Bethany, domi
nated in quantity, as well as quality.
Coach Jim Cutrone is very pleased 
with the performance of the mens and
womens teams. Were right where we 
need to be for UAAs, he remarked. The 
UAAs, coming up the weekend of Feb
ruary 17, will be held at Rochester.
The womens team started off with a 
bang, beginning the womens 200-yard 
medley relay with a lead over Bethany. 
Junior Joanne Kievan swam backstroke 
for the first part of the relay and was 
followed by sophomore Holley Anstatt 
who pulled CMU into a comfortable lead. 
Junior Sarah Broadley kept ahead, and 
for the last part of the relay freshman
Christina Hagopian cruised in.
Riding on the momentum of the first 
event, the men did equally as well. 
Berghoff, leading off one of CMUs re
lays, began the mens 200-yard medley 
in backstroke. A pivotal part of the relay 
was contributed by co-captain Todd 
Vandall, who impressively brought his 
relay team in the lead. Also on the relay 
were Mark Stemm and junior Zack 
Charmoy. They ended up finishing in 
first place but only a few seconds ahead 
of the other CMU relay teams.
Sophomore Rebecca Fruehan main
tained her consistent performance by 
winning the 200-yard individual medley 
with ease. In the mens 200-yard med
ley, CMU was represented in all three 
places, by sophomore George Schmidt, 
freshman Chris ORouke, and junior 
Doug Donegan, respectively.
Sophomore Matthew Moe, in the 
lengthy 400-yard exhibition medley 
swam an exciting race. In the last part of 
the race, he pulled ahead for a remark
able finish with a time of 4:16.18, break
ing the previous pool record of 4:21.85 j 
set by sophomore Geoff Waller. Another | 
triumphant comeback to witness was j 
the womens 500-yard freestyle, as j 
Kievan surged ahead during the last lap \ 
to finish in first place.
In addition to Matthew Moes pool; 
record, the 200-freestyle relay, consist- j 
ing of Waller, Keys, I^ine, and Vandall,; 
finished first with an amazing time of J 
1:30.92, replacing the previous record: j 
1:38.70, set by Berghoff, Stemm, Lie, \ 
and Fedak back in 1991.
CMU hockey club skates to seventh straight win
By KYMBERLY M. BARTLO
Tartan Staffwriter
The Carnegie Mellon Ice Hockey Club skated 
into its second semester season with a shutout 
victory over the University of PittsburghJohnstown (UPJ) on Sunday in a 5-0 home 
game. Although the Tartans went into the game 
with only one practice under their belts since 
winter break, they still earned their seventh 
straight win.
The game started fast with more concentration 
on back and forth passing than on actual scoring. 
CMU got one goal the first period and made 11 
shots onUPJs goalie, whils the opposition failed 
to score against grad student goalie Scott Berry. 
UPJ hardly had any opportunities to shoot as the 
strong CMU defense, consisting of junior Greg 
Jessop, freshman Chris Adukaitis, grad student 
Ken Ruffo, junior Blair Echols, senior Chris
Chicoskie, grad student Tom Sullivan, and junior 
P.J. Mann, held UPJs offense at bay.
The first goal of the night was scored by sopho
more center Roger Maddalena, assisted by junior 
left wing Phil Beck. The offense continually kept 
the puck in UPJs zone and stayed out of the 
penalty box. Charlie Motter of UPJ spent two 
minutes penalty time for tripping. Ruffo, 
Maddalena, Beck, and freshman center and new
comer to the team Ray Ardire kept pressure on 
UPJs goalie with nonstop shots.
CMU racked up several penalties in the second 
period: against Mann for charging, grad student 
center Dave Collins for high sticking, and Ardire 
for interference and rough play. The 6'0" 210 pound 
frame of Ardire seemed to draw the referees atten
tion, resulting in a penalty for roughing.
Ardire is certainly an asset to the team, taking 
hits that lay the other players out. He spent his 
first semester on the CMU football field although
his skill on the ice leads one to believe he skates 
year round. Said one fan during the game, He 
must be Canadian. (Hes actually from Westlake, 
Ohio.)
UPJ also kept the penalty bench warm with 12 
minutes worth of penalties doled out for tripping, 
hooking, and high sticking. However more penal
ties should have been called on them due to their 
unsportsmanlike aggression both during and in 
between plays.
Senior wing Matt Everett described one such 
instance. I was clearing out the crease and I 
knocked a UPJ guy down. The whistle blew when 
Berry grabbed the puck, and after the whistle 
blew, this guy decked me. He threw off his gloves, 
but the refs just blew it off as fun. 
CMU scored four more goals in the second while 
Berry and the CMU defense short-circuited all 
UPJ shots. Freshman wing Jim Buck scored the 
first goal of the period unassisted, quickly followed
by another goal by Ardire. Maddalena brought 
the score up to 4-0 with the assistance of Beck 
and junior left wing John Cardillo, two players 
returning to the ice after being injured last se
mester. Ardire, assisted by Buck and Cardillo, 
slammed the puck by UPJs goalie with two 
minutes left in the period.
CMU kept UPJ scoreless in the third period 
while Ardire, leading scorer of the night, got in 
CMUs final goal of the game. Senior wing/ 
defenseman Jon Hutchison, another new face on 
the team, attempted shots on UPJ, in the com
pany of senior left wing Michael Gallin, Collins, 
Jessop, Buck, Maddalena, Cardillo, and Ardire.
They [UPJ playersl were getting frustrated. 
You would pass the puck and then they would hit 
you, really late. Our guys were bigger, though, so 
they didnt do any damage, said junior left wing 
Dan Kodesh. I dont know why the refs werent 
calling it.

---------------------------------------------------

3.0The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  24 January 1994
Winners ready to play
Quarterback Sneak
by John Weber
Four more NFL teams were 
eliminated from the playoffs last 
week. The first three final scores 
were no big surprise.
- First, the Buffalo Bills beat the 
L.A. Raiders 29-24. The Raiders 
very fast, agile 
receivers were 
unable to do 
much in the cold 
against the 
Bills defense.
The Raiders 
passing game 
was pretty flat 
(compared to 
some of the 
games we have 
neen this year) 
until Tim 
Brown caught a 
Jeff Hostetler 
bomb in the sec
ond half.
All in all, lam 
not surprised 
that the Raiders 
bst. Tlv! Raidcvjare not quite 
ready to play 
with the heavy
weights of the 
AFC. However, 
if the Raiders 
can re-sign 
jSrown (I dont 
think James 
Jett is a free 
agent), they will 
have one of the 
most potent of
fensive attacks 
in 1994.
As for the Bills, they just dont 
lose at home in the playoffs. Ev
eryone always says that the Bills 
are chumps because they lost 
three straight Super Bowls. How
ever, the fact that the Bills have 
continuously gotten up and 
dusted themselves off in time to 
take another run at the Show 
tells you exactly how tough this 
team is. The Bills (despite having 
the best record in the AFC) find 
themselves as underdogs to win 
the Super Bowl because they have 
-lost three in a row, but dont count 
them out.
Last Saturday afternoon the 
San Francisco 49ers hosted the 
New York Giants. Ricky Watters 
killed the Giants as he rang up 
five touchdown runs to lead the 
49ers to a 44^3 victory.
The Giants simply lost their 
winning game plan when it most 
counted. They began to have 
troubles against the Vikings and 
it just kept going into the 49ers 
game.
The 49ers, after a slow finish 
and a week off, were more pre
pared than ever. Watters and 
Steve Young realized that few 
teams get as many chances as the 
49ers have been getting to return 
to the Super Bowl. Ever since Joe 
Montana left, the 49ers have been 
trying to find their 1980s cham
pionship form. In addition, Steve
Gabrien
Young had to live in the shadow 
of Montana when he was in San 
Francisco, but now he may have 
a chance to beat his teacher in the 
Super Bowl.
Last Sunday started off with 
the Cowboys winning, when they 
beat the Packers 27-17. The Cow
boys, however, could be in trouble. 
Emmitt Smith (basically the Cow
boy franchise) is not 100 percent 
and the Cowboys are not always 
playing great defense. However, 
the Cowboys are still the defend
ing champions and they showed 
it in at least two of the quarters 
against the Packers.
The Packers seemed too con
tent when they led the Cowboys 
by 3 early in the game. The Pack
ers didnt seem to take it to the 
Cowboys, but just seemed happy 
to be in the playoffs. However,
despite being down 17-3 at the 
half, the Pack did play tough in 
the second half to keep the score 
close. Also, Brett Favre got some 
invaluable playoff experience this 
year against the Lions and Cow
boys. With a little more defense 
and a running back the Packers 
will be back in the playoffs in 
1994.
At about 4 pm last Sunday the 
world seemed to be at rest; all the 
favorites were on their way to 
their respective championships. 
Then the Legend, the Surgeon, 
and probably the best quarter
back in the his
tory of the NFL 
(O.K., at least 
the decade of 
the 1980s), 
stepped in and 
threw a mon
key wrench 
into the Hous
ton Oilers sea
son. It was an
other playoff 
nightmare for 
the Oilers.
 They finally 
had the defen
sive game plan, 
they finally 
had the offen
sive strategy, 
they finally 
had the 
weapon (Gary 
Brown), and 
they finally 
had an AFC 
semi-final 
game at home. 
Add an 11- 
game winning 
steak, and they 
had everything 
going for them. 
I, personally, 
had the Chiefs 
Symons/Tartan Artist dead and bur_
ied (not that I particularly like 
the Oilers).
Last week at 4 pm I thought of 
Montana as a Super Bowl quar
terback who knew how to win, 
but made most of his comebacks 
with the likes of Dwight Clark 
and Jerry Rice. What transpired 
that night changed my opinion of 
Montana forever. The best part 
about it is that he made it look so 
simple.
Everyone knew that to beat the 
Buddy Ryan blitz you had to 
throw deep, but no one could do 
it. Young, Neil ODonnell, Vinny 
Testaverde, and a number of other 
quarterbacks didnt have the time 
to go deep. But Montana found 
time. Despite his age, Montana 
avoided the Ryan rush and got 
the ball downfield to the likes of
Please see SUPER BOWL, page 11
classified
JOBS
Agents  No Experience. Company 
expanding  $12-18 hr. + bonuses. 
Send SASE for details to: International,! 375 Coney Island Ave., Ste 427 
Brooklyn, NY 11230.
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT  
fisheries. Many earn $2,000+/mo. in 
canneries or $3,000-6,000+/month on 
fishing vessels. Many employers provide 
room & board and transportation. Over 
8^000 openings. No experience 
necessary! Male or female. For more 
information call: 1-206-545-4155 ext. 
A5236
Squirrel Hill couple seeks responsible 
sitter for 9-month-old baby, 10-30 
hours/week. Hours flexible. Call 683- 
SI 22.
Driver wanted. Responsible student to 
pick up eighth grade student in Point 
Breeze after school, 3 pm Monday  
Friday, deliver to campus; call 681-2564, 
leave message.
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING  Earn up 
to $2,000+/month working on Cruise 
Ships or Land-Tour companies. World 
Travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean, 
etc.) Summer and full-time employment 
available. No experience necessary. For 
irjfo. call 1-206-634-0468 ext. C5236.
BOOKS WANTED
Townsend Booksellers.
We buy thousands of worthwhile books 
in all scholarly and technical subjects and 
the arts. Best prices paid or generous 
trade credit. Visit us for out-of-print, used 
and rare books. Open daily: Monday  
Saturday, 11 am-6 pm, Sunday l-5pm. 
Near campus at 4612 Henry St. (off S. 
Craig) 682-8030.
JJOUSING
Summer sublet and fall rental. North 
Oakland furnished one bedroom and 
effiency apartments. Close to campus. 
On campus shuttle bus route. Very clean 
and spotless. Spacious bookshelves. 
Roomy closets. Secure apartment 
buildings. From $230. Call 683-0776
prices. We always include the ultimate 
party package. Organize a small group 
and travel free! We will not be under
sold. Call Sun Splash Tours today 1-800- 
426-7710.
Music
SINGERS of all experience levels sought 
for growing Cardinal Wright Oratory 
Choir at Heinz Chapel for Sunday noon 
mass. Rehearsals Sun. 10:30 am until 
noon. Call Angie at 687-7955 for details. 
We welcome YOU!
Mise
TRAVEL
SPRING BREAK 1994 
Cancn, Bahamas, Jamaica, Florida & 
Padre! 110 percent Lowest Price 
Guarantee! Organize 15 friends and your 
trip is free! TAKE A BREAK STUDENT 
TRAVEL (800) 328-7283
SPRING BREAK SALE!
We have the hottest destinations for 
1994! Jamaica, Cancn, Bahamas, S. 
Padre, Florida at the lowest adverstised
MCAT, GMAT, LSAT TEST TAKERS. If 
you're taking one of these entrance 
exams in 1994, you can earn $10 in a 
study on how people prepare for exams. 
Very small time commitment. Contact 
Prof. Lepore 268-2786 or Lisa 421-9759 
for more info.
Classified Rates
1-20 words.........$5.00 / wk
21-50 words.......$8.00 / wk
50-100 words..$10.00 / wk
Unsung, unknown heroes 
are true hockey All-Stars
The Puck Stops Here
by Allan Bourdius
The NHL held its 45th annual All-Star Game 
this past Saturday. The Eastern Conference de
feated the Western Conference, 9-8. The AllStar Game is designed to recognize and promote 
the best players in the league. Players like Wayne 
Gretzky, Paul Coffey, Ray Bourque, Brian Leetch, 
and Patrick Roy are perennial returnees to the 
mid-season event.
This years All-Star teams were made even 
more notable by the outstanding players who 
were not selected for the team. Granted, its 
impossible to recognize every player who excels 
at the game. Many players go unsung or unno
ticed. Recently, Hockey Digest (March 1994) pub
lished an article entitled The NHLs Top 10 
Underrated Players, by Karl Samuelson. Many 
of Samuelsons picks as underrated are really 
considered to be legitimate stars: Ron Francis, 
Dirk Graham, and Bill Ranford, just to name a 
few.
The real unheralded players in the league are 
the so-called role players. No team can be 
successfu 1 without its share of players who mostly 
play with guts and hard work instead of sheer 
talent and rbility. These ph.yers  defensiveoriented forwards, grinding stay-at-home 
defensemen, workhorse goaltenders  are some 
of the most unrecognized, and perhaps underappreciated, players in the league. There are 
also many highly talented players who for rea
sons unknown also go largely unnoticed.
So then, in an attempt to shed some light on 
some of the NHLs unsung stars, heres the 1993- 
94 All-Bourdius Under-Appreciated Team for 
both conferences:
EASTERN CONFERENCE
Goal tender: Martin Brodeur, New Jersey
PleasS HllsUUU
Devils. Rookie netminder Brodeur has very 
quietly compiled a 14-5-3 record this season 
with a 2.62 goals-against average and a .906 
save percentage. He leads the Devils and all 
rookie goaltenders. Hes on a pace to win more 
games than last years rookie-of-the-year runner-up Felix Potvin did, yet Brodeur hasnt 
gotten the same amount of recognition as the 
top offensive-forward rookies of this season.
Defense: Zarley Zalapski, Hartford Whal
ers. Zalapski is a talented player who just 
seems to always get passed over when the 
names of the top offensive'defensemen are 
discussed. In 396 games played, Zalapski has 
287 points, or .724 points-per-game. Consider
ing that future Hall of Fame defenseman Larry 
Robinson only managed .692 points-per-game 
over his career, and current Washington Capi
tals All-Star A1 Iafrate (regarded as one of the 
best offensive defensemen) has but .576 pointsper-game, Zalapskis talents are more than 
deserving of recognition.
Defense: Ken Daneyko, New Jersey Dev
ils. Daneykos position will never bring him 
glory: stay-at-home defenseman. In 656 NHL 
games, Daneyko has just 119 points. His. con
tribution is found in stats not normally kept: 
blocked shots, battles in the corners, clearing 
the crease, and being one of the top intimidators on the blue line. Hes the kind of player 
that every team wants, and every team needs. 
You can also be rest assured that hell be out 
there giving 100 percent every night, too. Hes 
played in over 300 consecutive games (longest 
current streak in the NHL) andhas inissedjiist 
seven games in his eight full seasons in the 
NHL.
Left Wing: Dimitri Khristich, Washing
ton Capitals. Khristich is one of the formerSoviet players who gets ignored while all the 
attention goes to Sergei Fedorov, Pavel Bure, 
and Alexei Yashin. Khristichs stats may not 
be as good, but hes as important to the Capi
tals as any of the others are to their teams. Hes 
been hampered by nagging injuries, but that 
hasnt stopped him from being a consistent 30- 
Please see UNDERAPPRECIATED, page 11
Career Week '94
OPEN YOUR MIND TO THE POSSIBILITIES
TByDrwDR n ,CDlrSC TByDrwDR II
Sponsored by numerous campus departments and organizations, and employers. 
Coordinated by the Career Center, Warner Hall, Room 19
THE TARTAN 
268-2111
<

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  24 January 199411
Stars shine, role players do dirty work
UNDERAPPRECIATED, from page 10
plus goal scorer and is a force on 
the power play. Like nearly all of 
'the Russian-born forwards, 
Khristich excels at two-way play, 
piis defensive contributions go 
largely unnoticed, even though 
lies one of the top checkers in the 
game.
Center: Sergei Nemchinov, 
p^ew York Rangers. When Mike 
Keenan was hired to coach the 
Rangers, it probably signaled the 
end of Nemchinovs opportunity 
to reach star status with the 
Broadway Blueshirts. Hes played 
in every game so far for the Rang
ers, but hasnt gotten the ice time 
that he deserves because hes not 
really Keenans favorite type of 
player. Nemchinov is an excel
lent playmaker and faceoff man, 
but not the intense physical com
petitor that Keenan loves. Hes 
not going to shy/ away from his 
checks or defensive responsibili
ties, and if hes out there enough, 
hes good for an easy 30 goals. 
Offense is Nemchinovs real tal
ent, but nobody takes him lightly 
in the defensive zone.
Right Wing: Doug Brown, 
Pittsburgh Penguins. Before 
this season, Doug Brown had been 
used only in a defensive role. He 
started the season with Pitts
burgh on their number two scor
ing unit, playing with Martin 
traka and Jaromir Jagr. Brown 
is having a career year. Hes 011 a 
pace to score 65 points, admitredly a humble total but double 
bis.previous best. Brown is a clean 
player who grinds in the comers 
and gets the best of players who 
ve a lot bigger than he is. Hes 
got great hockey sense and is a
constant force on the penalty kill
ing unit. He hasnt had one yet 
this season, but hes always a 
threat to knock in a shorthanded 
goal.
WESTERN CONFERENCE
Goaltender: Guy Hebert, 
Anaheim Mighty Ducks.
Hebert is a big part of why the 
Mighty Ducks have one of the 
best defenses in the NHL. If the 
team had better offense, theyd 
have won many more games. 
Hebert has quick reflexes and is 
good at containing rebounds. 
Given that Anaheim has to play 
defensive hockey because of their 
lack of offensive talent, they need 
a solid performer between the 
pipes. Hebert has met the chal
lenge.
Defense: Dave Manson, 
Edmonton Oilers. If the Oilers 
have any bright spots this sea
son, Manson is one of them. Hes 
spent part of the season hurt, but 
the Oilers desperately need his 
strong, intimidating presence on 
the ice. Toughness has sometimes 
gotten the better of Manson. In 
524 games, hes spent 1,672 min
utes in the penalty box. Its pos
sible to out-skate Manson, but 
youll never out-work him or outmuscle him. If you turn your back 
on him, hell flatten you like a 
steamroller. Unfortunately for 
the rest of the Oilers defense, 
Manson is one of the few market
able players Edmonton could of
fer in a trade.
Defense: Frank Musil, 
Calgary Flames. Musils talent 
also lies in his defensive play. 
The best evidence of his impor
tance on the Calgary blue line is 
shown in his plus-minus rating.
Musil has only scored eight points 
but is a whopping plus-28, sec
ond best in the NHL. Musil cant 
be pushed around 01* intimidated, 
but he isnt an intimidator him
self. Expect defense based on puck 
control and finesse out of him, 
not on bone-crushing action.
Left Wing: Jocelyn Lemieux, 
Chicago Blackhawks. Jocelyn 
Lemieux, the younger brother of 
New Jersey Devil Claude 
Lemieux (no relation to Pitts
burghs Mario), is a quintessen
tial defensive forward. Because 
of his meager offensive skills, 
Lemieux is never considered on 
par with many of the other Selke 
Trophy contenders. On the 
forecheck and backcheck there 
are few who are better than this 
winger. Lemieux takes punish
ment and dishes it out. Hes also 
on a personal record scoring pace 
this season. He should finish with 
about 20 goals  twice, as many 
as hes ever scored.
Center: Keith Primeau, De
troit Red Wings. On a team 
that has two of the best centers 
ever to play the game (Steve 
Yzerman and Sergei Fedorov), 
its easy to see how the 22-yearold Primeau can get lost in the 
shuffle. Primeau has spent most 
of his playing time on the wing as 
the Red Wings are loaded with 
centers. He is a classic power 
forward: tough, fast, hard-shoot
ing. He scored only 15 goals in 
1992-93, but hes on a pace for 30 
this season. At 6'4" and 225 
pounds, Primeau is one of the 
biggest players in the league, 
using his size to the utmost ad
vantage. Hes ruthless in his body 
play, and sends anybody he con
tacts home with a few extra 
bruises.
Right Wing: Ulf Dahlen, 
Dallas Stars. Usually when a 
player consistently scores 30 or 
more goals a season, he gets 
noticed. Such has not been the 
case with Ulf Dahlen. Hes 
slightly off a 30-goal pace this 
year, but his all-around play still 
places him among the top three 
forwards on the Dallas Stars 
team. Dahlen is a gentleman on 
the ice; through 83 games last 
season, he was charged with only 
three minor penalties. Hes a 
genuine two-way talent. While 
Dahlen will never be a flashy 
player, hell continue to be solid.
Well, there you have it. A 
couple ofthese players could very 
well be real All-Stars in the near 
future. The rest? Theyll con
tinue as unknowns in the press 
and as unsung heroes on their 
teams.
Next week Ill take a look at 
another type of player that ev
ery team wants to have and 
needs to win: the power winger. 
Not a goon, but a strong player, 
he power forward is the lethal 
combination of speed, skill, and 
toughness.
Youll read more about 
Primeau and other young power 
players, and see how their abili
ties match up compared to es
tablished veterans like Pitts
burghs Rick Tocchet and 
Bostons Cam Neely, who drive 
to the net and muscle in for goals 
and intimidation.
Allan Bourdius is a senior 
double-major in applied history 
and industrial management.
Men drop pair of games
TARTANS, from page 9
The Tartans took the lead one more time with 12:43 left on a drive 
down the lane by freshman Rich Bodnar. However the Violets soon 
answered that with a couple of free throws from Thomas Bowman. 
Sophomore Eric Ronzio tied it with a free throw a couple of minutes 
later, but the Violets took the lead for good less than 30 seconds 
later.
New York University outscored the Tartans 23-11 for about 10 
minutes in the second half, punctuated by a Danny Stevens basket 
behind the back and into the hoop with only 1:35 left. Down by 12, 
the Tartans looked to be finished, but they took one last run at 
NYU. First Conners scored, then Byrne recovered his own rebound 
and scored, and then Byrne hit two free throws. This cut the lead 
to six with only 58 seconds left. However, the Tartans had to start 
fouling as time ran out, and the Violets proceeded to hit five of their 
last eight foul shots. Kevin Byrne hit a three-pointer with only 14 
seconds left to make it 73-70, but NYU scored the last three points 
to win the game 76-70.
We wanted to go at them, said Byrne, who led the Tartans with 
24 points and 15 rebounds, [but] we always fall behind and have 
to come back. We just arent quite able to get over the hump.
With these two losses the Tartans find themselves at 3-3 in the 
UAA and 5-9 overall. The Tartans have along road trip coming up, 
then will return home to play Washington University (8:30 pm) on 
Friday, February 11.
A-U-D-I-T-I-0-N-S
PITTSBURGH 
HARRISBURG PHILADELPHIA 
NEW YORK CITY
TORONTO. CANADA
ROCHESTER. NYiSYRACUSE. NY
CORTLAND. NY
BINGHAMTON. NY NEW ENGLAND NDA S',NEW YORK CITY
TO
CARLISLE^
sSHUUTBsyDrwRn,CrIf
CHAMBERSBURGf-f 
HAGERSTOWN. MO<2
WASHINGTON. DC  \ 
TO ALL POINTS SOUTH
ALLENTOWN WILLOW GROVE
'HILADELPHIA KING OF PRUSSIAHyCEyLSnN
1 -800-444-2877
Capital
DANCERS  MUSICAL THEATRE PERFORMERS'
SINGERS WHO DANCE  SINGERS WHO MOVE WELL 
DANCERS WHO SING WELL FOR SUMMER INTERNSHIP PROGRAMf
At Waft Disney World Co., we produce eight spectacular shows for performers with 
expertise in the talent categories above. Add 10 elaborate convention shows created for our 
many resort hotels, phis special events, and you can see theres a lot happening at our world'
There are 130 opportunities for you to become a cast member. Performance styles 
include a hip-hop dance troupe, musical theatre format, western-style vaudeville dinner 
show, and everything in between. Contracts begin May to August 1994. Full-time performers 
receive an annual contract, relocation and benefit package, and a weekly salary ranging 
between $364 and $508.
Our talent search doesnt end there. Summer roles are available May 29 to August 27,
1994. Twelve aspiring dancers who sing well to cast in the Disney Entertainment Work 
Experience Programf. This program is designed to cultivate professional skills through 
daily performances, dance classes, and workshops led by Disney staff and guest artists. 
Participants receive a weekly stipend of $300, and share furnished apartments provided by 
the company. College credit is possible, however, college student status is not required.
You must be at least age 18 by May 1,1994 to audition. You will need a non-returnable 
resume and headshot for registration at the audition site. No appointment is necessary.
Singers who move well, singers who dance, dancers who sing well, and musical theatre 
performers* are to prepare 16 bars of two songs (up-tempo & ballad), and bring sheet music 
in proper key. Accompanist is provided (no tapes). Dancers are to be strong in jazz, ballet, 
and tap; have dance attire and shoes (character heels are suggested for women), and be 
prepared to learn our dance combinations.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 
Point Park College 
Boulevard of the Allies and Wood Street 
Thursday, February 3 
lpm Eligible & Open Call Musical Theatre Performers &
Singers Who Dance/Move Well 
4 pm Eligible & Open Call Dancers (Eligible performers will be seen first)
If you have a question, call 407/345-5701. Our WALT DISNEY WORLD 
Resort audition Information hotline is staffed Monday through Friday,
10amlpm and 2pm5pm eastern time, except on holidays. Call for 
recorded message anytime. DO NOT CALL AUDITION SITE!
'Musical theatre performers JU1 roles in The Hoop Dee Doo Revue," a western-style vaudeville dinner show. Character breakdown for this show: Jim  baritone, leading man type; Flora  soprano, leading lady, vocal soloist; Johnny  baritone, song and dance man; Clair  character singer, adorable, has outrageous giggle; Six-Bits  character singer, comic relief, naive farmboy; Dolly  alto, Annie Oakley type.Interviews Jor technical positions will not lake place during talent auditions. Resumes may be mailed to WALT DISNEY WORLD Manpower Planning, Creative Entertainment, P.O. Box 10,000, Lake Buena Vista, FL32S30-I00Q.' *1993 pay scale; salaries are subject to change. All Jull-time entertainers are covered under the terms and conditions oJa collective bargaining agreement with Actors'Equity Association, 165 W. 46th Street, New York, NY 10036.
The Wait Disney Company
Lombardi trophy at 
stake next weekend
SUPER BOWL from page 10
J. J. Birden and Keith Cash. 
Then the Chiefs defense took 
over and shut down the Oiler 
run-and-shoot.
The Oilers future is not as 
pretty as the Packers or the 
Raiders futures. Both of Jack 
Pardees assistants feel that they 
are ready to move on to a head 
coaching job. Warren Moon is on 
the verge of retirement and free 
agency threatens to pull this ag
ing team apart. This could have 
very well been the last chance at 
the Super Bowl for the Oilers for 
a while.
As for the Chiefs, they are not 
the most talented team in the 
NFL. In fact, they are probably 
less talented than the Oilers. 
Their defense is quick but in
jured, and their offense is potent 
but inconsistent. In the intangible category, however, they ar 
leaps and bounds above the rest. 
No football team has been led to 
the Super Bowl by a quarterback 
in this fashion since Super Bowl 
III when the Jets were led by 
another Joe.
On Sunday, Montana proved 
mortal, succumbing to injury as 
the Chiefs fell to the Bills. Later 
in the day, Dallaswhose coach, 
Jimmy Johnson, predicted vic
tory  downed San Francisco to 
set up a rematch of last years 
title game.
This is the first ever Super Bowl 
matchup two years in a row. The 
Bills are hungry and I think they 
will be ready for the Cowboys; 
Take the Bills in the big game* 
13-7.
John Weber is a junior civil 
engineering major.
IM News
SPORTS IN SEASON
Two sports begin this week, 
and both will have rules 
clinics. The mandatory clinic 
for basketball is today, and the 
one for floor hockey is Thurs
day.
FLOOR HOCKEY
Rules clinic on Thursday in 
Thistle Hall. Games will start on 
Monday, January 31 in the up
per gym. The deadline for entries 
is Thursday. Each team must 
have a representative present at 
the rules clinic.
Women lose NYU game
WOMEN, from page 9
on, holding strong to their lead.
Generous use of substitutions to keep the players all fresh was 
helpful. Then the score began to change in NYUs favor during a 
series of ball stealing and foul shots. With only 3:50 left in the first 
half, NYU tri-captain Donna Layne caused some problems for the 
Tartans. Even as the Tartan starters entered back into the game 
the score at half time was 34-27, not looking good for CMU.
Beginning the second half of the game with the same five 
starters and down by seven, Megahan and Kupfer were high 
scorers during this segment of the game. Kupfer consistently 
racked up the rebounds. Freshman Tracy Bach came in for 
Summerville, along with Sober and several other substitutions 
which gave the starters a rest.
Unfortunately for the Tartans, they remained behind during the 
entire second half. It had been an emotionally draining game, but 
the women continued to play aggressively up until the very end. In 
the last six minutes left in the game, some excellent shots were 
made by Gretz and Kupfer.
The teams will meet again on February 4 at NYU.
BASKETBALL BUSINESS
Rules clinic today at 4:30 in The next IM board meeting is 
the small gym. Games start to- Wednesday at noon in the IM 
night. There are 90 teams eji- office, 
tered. Each team must have a
representative present at the Compiled by
basketball rules clinic. CAROLYN SKARADATeeWffOWWlBFSPRINGBREAK
COMPLETE FIVE 8 SEVEN NIGHT TRIPS
Wtf 'World Co.
An Equal Opportunity Employer
s14Ca rngiM Usonvg
gntC1vn NMnya
rnvnPn yUCt NMnyaEssnzn
ons TMbns
TnUohNMnTMi yiMM2
1ionvg1hgUsvMt J1iog
P4sCnvb Usonvg
aUoC1v aMng Usonvg
NiMy2MviUgbMh2MtsC1vM
* PER PERSON DEPENDING ON DESTINATION / BREAK OATES / LENGTH OF STAY.
FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION & RESERVATIONSI1*800*SUNCHASEI

---------------------------------------------------

SOME CMU STUDENTS REMAINED ABROAD....OTHERS JOINED THEM...
NAMEMAJORYEARLOCATION
Brian AnthonyMechanical EngineeringSRParis, France
Brandy AuldArtJRWimbledon, England
Jeff BabatskyChemical EngineeringJRLausanne, Switzerland
Sherri BowmanIndustrial AdministrationGRNancy, FranceAna BoyerArtJRSantiago, Chile
Paul BreuderECEJRLausanne, Switzerland
Mandy BrownECEJRLausanne, Switzerland
Jim BurtoftMath/EconomicsJRSt. Petersburg, Russia
Sonia CanalesArtJRBogota, Colombia
Sean CanavanMathJRLausanne, Switzerland
Kevin CheaECE/Math/Computer ScienceJRLausanne, Switzerland
James CockerilleDesignJRBarcelona, SpainMolly CounihanTechnical Writing/BiologySRAlicante, Spain
Kim CurtisCreative WritingJRParis, France
Monika CzerskaMathJRLausanne, Switzerland
Pajman DanaiMaterials Science Eng.JRLausanne, Switzerland
Diem DaoChemistry/FrenchJRParis, France
Leah EavesDramaSRMadrid, Spain
Adam FarmerieArchitectureSRLondon, England
Daniel FineDramaJRDublin, Ireland
Jeff FinnComputer ScienceJRAdelaide, Australia
Chris GarvinArchitectureSRLausanne, Switzerland
William HarrisArtJRAmsterdam, Netherlands
John HartnettProfessional WritingJRAix-en-Provence, France
Cherie HayekArchitectureSRVenice, Italy
Albert HongInformation SystemsJRSeoul, South Korea
Yoichiro lidaECEJRLausanne, Switzerland
Ali JafariECEJRLausanne, Switzerland
Josef KapsArchitectureSRZurich, Switzerland
Jeannie KimEconomics/I MJRParis, France
Lisa KoscielnyInformation SystemsSRAvignon, France
Sallyann KluzArchitectureSRCopenhagen, Denmark
David LaDueDramaJRNorwich, England
Bill LakenanComputer ScienceJRLausanne, Switzerland
Amy LefkowitzI M/GermanJRFreiberg, Germany
Jamie LipskyLogic & Computation/FrenchSOAvignon, France
Rich LubellCreative WritingJRLimerick, Ireland
Paolo MalabuyoArtJRHangzhou, China
Stephen MannChemical EngineeringJRLausanne, Switzerland
Patrick MeagherArtJRDsseldorf, Germany
Kiyofumi MizukiArchitectureSRVenice, Italy
Laurie ModellPsychology/FrenchJRAvignon, France
Maya MohanChemistryJRLausanne, Switzerland
Dana MoudryPhysicsJRLausanne, Switzerland
Chris NigroArchitectureSRLausanne, Switzerland
Han Ming OngComputer Science/MathJRAvignon, France
Weida PengI MJRTokyo, Japan
Partha PinisettiECE/Math/Computer ScienceJRLausanne, Switzerland
Andrew ReillyHistoryJRSt. Andrews, Scotland
Lydia RicciDesignJRSt. Gallen, Switzerland
Larkin RogersI M "JRNancy, France
Azmeer SallehECEJRLausanne, Switzerland
David ShimArtJRAmsterdam, Netherlands
Eric SilinshArchitectureSRRiga, Latvia
Brian SmithI MJRNancy, France
Jared SteinDramaJRDublin, Ireland
Jeff StewartECEJRLausanne, Switzerland
Chris TaylorMath/Computer ScienceJRSemester at Sea
Frank TropschuhMath/Computer ScienceJRNuremberg, Germany
Anna UhlerArtJRRome, Italy
Karthik VasudevanChemical EngineeringJRLausanne, Switzerland
PARTICIPATION HAS INCREASED BY 10% IN THE PAST YEAR. YOU CAN BE PART OF IT, TOO!!. 
Come by the Office of International Education (219 Warner Hall) or call for an appointment with the 
study abroad advisor X8-4969. For additional information, check our bboard academic.abroad.official.

---------------------------------------------------

P arrived
24 January 1994Volume 88, Issue 14
:::ig anoact
Student runs 
:or life
Professor 
expands minds
By It STRU MINGER
mrtan Staffwriter
chest was flatter than I 
imagined. I thought there 
at least be some muscle 
the breasts had been, but 
wasnt even a nipple. In 
the only prominent features 
Stephanie Byrams chest are 
ribs and two pink horizontal 
about six inches long. Welof breast canbright smile and sparwhich greeted me when 
at her office indicated 
f little of her recent and intense 
battle with breast cancer. In fact,
| she had plans to go cross country 
jj skiing later that day!
I foiagnosed in May of1993 with 
highly aggressive, highly malig
nant Stage III breast cancer, 
social and decision science PhD 
I student, Byram, is just now find
ing the voice and strength to in|jease the publics awareness of 
jljreast cancer and its effects. 
Bpfflhen I began telling my fami'|y and friends that I had breastt
Lfncer, [I realized that] people 
donly had remote contact with 
ind really didnt know anybody 
ith breast cancer]... I think it 
ps good for people to have a face 
^ associate with the cancer], 
ilff * was really active doing my j<yn thing [when the cancer was 
jfcpvered]. I had a swollen painSl.area in my breast ... then I 
ftind a very hard lump the size of 
Marble under my arm pit.
surgeon performed a needle 
Inspiration on the lump (removed 
iftiid) an(j iater that week I 
Warned that it was cancerous .... 
I* Whenyou get sick you feel bad
 your head hurts, you are sick 
foour stomachwell, this didnt 
pui't. It was shocking to me that 
jr culd have this horrible disease 
growing inside of me and yet feel 
nothing.
Since, having a bilateral 
Mastectomy (the removal of both 
'easts) in May and three months 
of chemotherapy from June 
'ough August, Byram has been 
Preparing to run races and to 
aise $100,000 to both put a face 
'n the disease and to find a cure. 
, The chemo was so aggressive 
(Rat it took everything from me. 
ft', takes six hours to receive 
chemo, and I had to take steroids 
to relax and to make my body 
more receptive to the drugs.
Then they would give me sa
me solution and the medication
through an IV.
I chose to have the more ex
treme side effects, stronger doses 
... I have to look at it from the 
stand point that I did everything 
possible  I have no regrets if it 
recurs.
[Meanwhile] I was too sick and 
tired to read or to watch movies
 I didnt even eat. There wasnt 
enough energy to eat! So when I 
got on my feet it was SO impor
tant to do what I wanted to do....
One of those days when I was 
lying in bed this summer, I real
ized that life is too short. I 
thought, I have to do something 
to make an impact. So I decided 
to run every race for cancer to 
find a cure.
The races Byram speaks about 
are the Susan G. Komen 
Foundations Races for the Cure. 
She first found out about these 
through an electronic bulletin 
board.
Running is not really some
thing I enjoyed a lot just some
thing to stay in shape. But the 
Dead Runners Society (a world
wide organization of runners 
who exchange messages over an 
Internet bulletin board about run
ning and other assorted topics) 
inspired me.
They were amazing over the 
summer. I appealed to them to 
send me postcards of places they 
liked. I got dozens and dozens 
from all over the world.
Then on July 1 they even had 
a run-for-Stephanie day.
[The runners] ran in their 
hardest run t-shirts, and then 
sent the t-shirts to me. They sent 
the first race t-shirt they ever 
wore or the shirt from the race in 
which theyd set their fastest PR 
(personal record).... I got about 
50 t-shirts;... they are a beautiful 
group of people.
By rams first race is on Janu
ary 29 in West Palm Beach, 
Florida.
Over the next two years 3he 
will be running about 50 races 
around the country. She has been 
training hard and even though 
her coach is telling her to take it 
easy, she is shooting for a 10- 
minute mile.
One thing that having cancer 
has taught me is to live by the 
Dead Poet's Society theory, Carpe 
Diem (Seize the day). I am grab
bing life with a big bear hug!
Unfortunately, for women with 
this aggressive level of cancer, 
there is only a 50 percent sur
vival rate. Though Byram views
herself as an exception based on 
her age and physique, the dan
ger of the cancer returning is 
very real.
I take more control of my 
body and of my mind  I follow 
the macrobiotic principles: No 
alcohol or coffee; I limit my sugar 
and meat. Because Im anemic, 
I still eat some meat... Im not 
boring! No junk food; vitamin 
supplements; more discipline 
about exercising regularly; and 
I meditate. I am a part of a 
support group in Pittsburgh 
thats incredible, and finally I 
[write in a] journal!
I have learned a lot [from 
being sick], and I am much hap
pier now.
I wouldnt say that cancer 
has been an experience every
one should have, but it was a 
positive experience for me.... Im 
a lot less willing to put up with 
crap....
I think, especially in the Uni
versity setting, people are so 
programmed to get stuff accom
plished  to achieve no matter 
what the personal cost, and that 
is wrong in my judgment.
Even through all of her opti
mism, Byram does have some 
sadness about her situation.
I lost the most obvious 
marker of my womanhood. Its 
an incredible loss; I still grieve. 
I kind of fantasize about what it 
would be like to have [breasts] 
again.
So far, Byram has raised about 
$1500. The [$100,000] goal is a 
stretch for sure because I am 
not inherently a fund-raiser kind 
of person, but it is a cause I 
believe in.... Its an area I would 
love some help in, though.
People can access information 
on donors, budgets, newsletters, 
contracts, travel, etc. on Byrams 
Andrew account, rftc, or you can 
call her at 268-6673.
[Ed. note: Making an impact 
will be a continuing series that 
will introduce readers to inter
esting people at CMUJ
By MATT ADLER
Tartan Staffwriter
Jane Bernstein is anything but 
just another professor.
Aside from teaching, one of her 
screenplays has been made into a 
major motion picture. She received 
her undergraduate degree in jour
nalism from NYU, but she says 
this was a mistake. After working 
for four years doing odd jobs in a 
variety of places she returned to 
graduate school at Columbia for 
her M.F.A. with renewed focus.
She characterizes her first 
teaching job, at Rutgers, as acci
dental. Though initially 
unenthused, she worked hard to 
keep on top of classes like Commu
nication and Mass Media and en
joyed teaching. She stayed at 
Rutgers until her daughter, Char
lotte, was born.
Bernstein continued writing and 
soon began teaching a creative 
writing workshop  apparently a 
suggestion she took on the fly from 
a fellow runner at the New York 
Marathon; (her best time, out of 
three NY Marathon races, is a 
3.28).
Workshop attendees, ranging 
from students to septuagenarians, 
enjoyed Bernsteins tutelage for 
two years, until she returned to 
teaching on the college level.
Back at school, one of Bernsteins 
projects included hustling a lot of 
screen work.
The screenplay for Seven Min
utes inHeaven, which she co-wrote, 
was initially picked up by 
Coppollas Zoetrope Studio, and 
eventually sold to Warner Broth
ers. Her film finally reached the 
big screen in 85.
In the film world, another of 
Bernsteins notable exploits was 
scouting for director Jonathan 
Kaplan.
She discovered Matt Dillon while 
searchingfor the next James Dean. 
On the literary front during this 
time, Bernstein wrote a novel, 
Departures, and a non-fiction book, 
Loving Rachel.
Loving Rachel is the autobio
graphical account of working on 
the screenplay Seven Minutesln 
Heaven while caring for her sec
ond daughter, Rachel, who is dis
abled and was critically ill at the 
time.
In addition Bernstein wrote a 
version of Seven Minutes In 
Heaven as a young adult novel 
which, to her great pride and joy, 
has actually been translated into 
Japanese.
In 1990 she began looking for 
full time, tenure-track work, and 
came to CMU with her husband 
and two daughters in the fall of
1991. Her courses range from 
Fiction Workshop, to Autobiog
raphy Workshop, (offered next 
f^ill) to Contemporary Women 
Writers.
Bernstein stresses that writ
ing is not just a medium for exJane Bernstein, English professor
pression but involves a love of 
language and stories. She quali
fies the term creative writing, 
stating, People mistakenly be
lieve creativity isnt as bound up 
in technique as it is. Technique 
is fundamental ... you cant get 
good without also reading.
As she refers to in her Fiction 
Workshop syllabus, reading and 
writingis a connection thats bro
ken for a lot of people who want 
to express themselves...but 
peoples style evolves from what 
theyve read .... There are infi
nite ways to tell stories and no 
limit to technique.
Bernstein agrees with John 
Gardner, who said, People are 
like apes, they learn by imita
tion. However, she says, your 
own voice evolves and your voice 
dominates.What you hear is the 
distant echo of an influence. 
The recommended strategy for 
writing in her class: I do best 
with people who come with a 
kind of fever to do something 
good, but willing to take a deep 
breath when it needs more work. 
For Bernstein, writingis a com
bination of ego and insecurity. 
There is confidence, most notice
able in the addictive flow state, 
or first flush of writing, coupled 
with the drive to produce effec
tive, important literature.
In her experience,Often stuKevin Chen/Tartan Photographer
dents are wounded when recep
tion is not 100 percent positive, 
but the second look is when tech
nique enters. Thejobistoshape 
it so that it does what its sup
posed to... writing is an iterative ; 
process.
Many of Bernsteins students 1 
would be surprised by how re
laxed she can be outside of class. 
Contrary to reports from her stu
dents about her serious approach 
when teaching, Bernsteins easy
going demeanor in no way belied 
Please see PROF, on page L3
The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

---------------------------------------------------


The Tartan  Carnegie MeSion  24 January 1994
Weather assumes nasty attitude
Alien in Residence
by Micki Kochanskyj
As if having to deal with the 
madness of a new semester 
werent enough, the weather has 
taken on a decidedly nasty atti tude. Merely getting to class is 
something like attempting sui1 cide. Waiting for the shuttle at 
7:15am when the temperature 
has yet to rise to its high of minus 
threeis somewhat risky. Attempt
ing to stand in the aisle of a mov
ing shuttle (and Im talking about
the B route here, with the big 
school bus) when that aisle is a 
sheet of ice, is risky. Hey, not 
covering every inch of exposed 
skin in this weather is risky.
Snow, regardless of depth, I 
can deal with. So you get a little 
wet, and make a ridiculous 
squeaking sound when you walk, 
but at least you dont get frost
bite.
Thats the word that got me in 
trouble on the phone with my 
mom the other day. Frostbite.
We were getting along very 
well; I was telling her how my 
new classes were going, she was 
commiserating, and then I made 
the mistake of trying to impress 
her with my account of how we 
were bearing up under all this 
snow.
Conversations like this go on 
all the time between relatives in 
different 
climates; 
its like an 
any
thingyou-cando-I-cando-better 
thing. Be
ing on the 
end of one 
of these 
conversa
tions with 
an En
glish per
son is act u a 1 1 y
any kind, being as how they dont 
have any weather of their own. It 
went a bit like 
this:
"... actually, 
Mom, its
snowing right 
now. They say 
well get an
other six
inches to
night.
Six inches! 
Yeah, and 
thats nothing. 
We already 
have about 13 
on the ground. 
Its all beatenMicki KochanskyJ/Tartan Staffwriter Qwn some_
rather amusing. They are im- what on the sidewalk, but... 
pressed with weather stories of Thirteen inches! You have 13
inches of snow!
Oh yeah. By morning well 
have 19, maybe even 20. It could 
go to 24.
How on earth are you coping? 
Are you keeping warm?
As warm as you can be when 
its minus six outside, minus 40 
with the wind-chill.
You cant be serious. Just tell 
me youre keeping warm.
Im OK, but the weatherman 
said to watch out for frostbite.... 
Thats it. You come back here 
this instant!
The mistake I made, you see, 
was that I legitimized my seem
ingly ridiculous claims by men
tioning the weatherman.
In England the weatherman is 
something akin to God.
He appears every night after
the news with his pointy sticV 
and map, and tells his rapt audj. 
ence its going to be partial], 
sunny with clouds and rain.This 
he does without variation even 
day of the year.
Despite the fact that he \s% 
most always wrong about h0* 
warm its going to be, or whethej 
the rain will appear in the morr, 
ing or afternoon (and he soriie. 
times misses major events 
hurricanes altogether), he ist 
lieved absolutely.
Micki Kochanskyj, English 
nior, who is new to this pok, 
wind thing still gets a thrill 
ery time snowflakes appear ah 
magic from the sky, and has t6% 
pried away from the glass b 
her nose freezes to it.Get a clue: buy some matches for free
Askew, No Shoes
by Matt Messner
It was a dark and stormy night. 
Okay, I could see pretty well. Yes, yes, 
t.iere wasnt exactly a storm either, 
but it was threatening. All right, it 
was a well-lit and calm late evening, 
but it was certainly cold.
Anyway, I had just finished my 11th 
f-lass of hot chocolate from the HighUnder and hurried down my eggs. 
(es, you can get eggs made-to-order 
all day). While contemplating the run
ning yolk, trying to divine the future, 
I achieved one of the lower mental 
states of inspiration  the one two 
notches above indigestion.
Swift as the expert Highlander ser
vice, I sped to where my thoughts did 
bid  the comment cards. Nestled in 
with all the thankful, approving, ec
static, touched, and happy cards, par
tially obscured by a request for more 
grappling hooks, I 
found my clue. The 
big, blue, bubble let
ters C-L-U-E were 
not nearly as help
ful as the fine-print.
It read something 
like this, We em
ployees, suiTounded 
by smiling, gracious 
patrons, so love it here that we would 
never strike unless an act of God closes 
down Highlander and we could not 
recover.
Of course, this translates to, For 
an act of God, close cover before strik
ing.
So I returned my fine dinnerware to
the back room, and left the feasting 
crowds to begin my quest. All nodded 
gravely in acknowledgment, too busy 
cramming their faces with delicious 
vittles to send me off with words of hope. 
But I was a man possessed, and thus
But I was a man possessed, 
and thus having to return my 
body to its rightful owner soon, 
I hurried on my way.
having to return my body to its rightful 
owner soon, I hurried on my way.
[We now meet our daunting protago
nist at the convenience store, Entropy, 
where a dialogue commences:]
Hello, good sir. Please allow me to 
purchase this matchbook to aid me in 
my quest from God.
I am sorry, sir, but I can do nothing of 
the sort.
You do not understand the despera
tion of the si tuation.
Look. It is you who are misled. 
Matchbooks are free.
Well, If they are not enslaved, can 
you convince one to travel with me? 
Now listen. Matchbooks dont cost 
anything. Take one and leave.
Are you certain we can support that 
in today's economy? My goodness, man, 
look at it. Its entirely white. They must 
have bleached all the writing and adver
tisements off. Do you have any idea of 
the expense involved in the bleaching 
process?
Look, freak. Take the matches and 
go! Now!
Can I have a receipt? Reimburse
ment from heaven, yknow.
But you didnt purchase anything! 
Well, whos fault is that now?
[Our protagonist is bodily hurled from
the establishment along with his book 
matches. As he dejectedly trudges awai 
he can be heard muttering:]
I want my money back. Or at leas 
some kind of discount. If they forget th; 
receipt youre entitled to something. I] 
sue! Bloody peasant.
[Next week find out whether our a& 
thor abandons the story, or decides t; 
light a match. See the hero find romaneamong the dangling modifiers only t: 
lose it. Coming soon to a movie hds 
near you.]
Matt Messner (mmdm+), CIT fresh
man, is a proud employee of the High 
lander Caf.
May contain one or more of the follming: exaggerations and/or lies. Sceiui 
written on location in Isafjordhur, Iczland.
Stunt authors used during certain sen
tences. No cute animals were harnm 
during this column's creation. Spigot.
Attention H&SS Seniors and Others Doing H&SS Double Majors:
Imagine that someone offered you $15,000 and a year to study 
something that has interested you for a long time, that: excites you a lot,, 
and that would require travel abroad in one or more cultures different 
from your own. Would that interest you, and what would you do?
An H&SS Alumni 
Travel Fellowship
can make this possible for you!
The H&SS. Alumni Study/Travel Fellowship seeks, to enable a 
bachelors candidate of unusual promise to engage in a-ye&r of 
independent study ant} travel abroad following: graduation. One 
Fellow will be selected this1 year arid will receive a graJr,of $ 15,000 
for travel and study abroad during the.year following their college : 
graduation.
Eligible students include H&SS seniors; and non-H&SS seniors - 
with an H&SS double major
Applications due: January31. 1994 
Candidate interviews: Early February, 1994 
Fellow Selected: Mid-February, 1994
Additional Information (including application materials) are available
in the H&SS Academic Advisory Center, Baker Hall 161.
Contact. Dr. Joseph E. Devine, Associate Dean of H&SS,
Presdure. r,
The presdure beard down:on ud from all directions. We are. 
under p red dure from our parents, from our profeddord, froni 
our peerd. Pressure comd at ud from the media television 
programs, magazine articled and advertisements all tell ud 
bow we should look, how we dbould act, what we dbould desire, 
how we dbould think. On a daiLy, hourly, even minute-byminute basis, we live in the dbadow of a giant cookkcutter that is trying to clone us, to re-create,u 
in the image of a world that has lodt dighl 
of Truth.
There is an Alternative.
The God who created us cares aboul 
us. He cares about the pressures that we 
are under, arid He cares very much that our culture w 
trying to dqueeze His people into its distorted mold. 
Jubilee 1994 is a conference designed to br uig 
college dtudents together with peerd and profession^ 
for the express purpose of exploring the implica
tions of living out The Alternative. How can we 
dhatter the cultured distorted cookie-cutter maty 
and live, work and play as the people God creald 
us to be? What does it mean to be a dtudent, of 
an engineer, an artist, a business perdn, or 
parent made in Godd image instead of in 
the worlds image?
JV7BIL66 '94
The press is on to conform. Come dee how Christ can transform your Life.
February 25-27, at the Hilton HoteL Free dbuttle dervice available to and from CMU.
For information and registration contact Earl Wagoner at 862-2118.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  24 January 1994L3
Sex Week arrives
gy FRANK MICHELS
, 'Fartan Personnel Manager
HAs the spring semester finishes 
second week, upperclassmen 
pondering why it has come so 
'early this year. The second-seIpiester freshmen are wondering 
ifoits for real. Everybody won,dfirs what its all about.
Z ' So, whats happening during 
 Sex Week this year?
-Starting today, the Student 
J/pormitory Council is sponsoring 
a week-long agenda of events re
lated to issues of sex, relation
ships, and awareness.
^^Other organizations are hostJng a variety of programs as well. 
For example, at 8 pm today, the 
. W Brith Hillel is hosting a 
program about sex through the 
J eyes of Judaism called Judaism 
& Sex in Skibo 13.
^Tuesdays events concern sex 
fid sexual awareness. At 8 pm at 
tffe Womens Center, the Inter
varsity Christian Fellowship 
ju^VCF) will host a discussion on 
virape, molestation, and sexual 
abuse.
iKR^According to Jon Kindy, a senrtfior electrical and computer enH'giHeering major and member of 
IVCF, Sexual Abuse will be foucusing on the victims of sexual 
Diabuse and how sexual abuse is 
yjdealt with.
,] vAn hour later on Tuesday, the 
,6fcousing Office will join RAs and 
residents in open discussions and 
programs about sex within resii''Slice life. These programs will 
'Vjielield at various places through
out campus.
'.:o 'Sexual identity and differences 
sofcature Wednesdays programs. 
odSVCF will sponsor a program 
called Gender Confusion, which 
nfacuses on sexual identity and 
khow it is affected by role models, 
the environment, and the media.
__Kindy said that the program
will be an interactive discussion, 
featuring Michael Lumberger 
from the Convenant Church of 
Pittsburgh as its main speaker. 
Gender Confusion starts at 8
pm in Skibo 12.
At 9 pm in Skibo 13, ALLIES 
will be Talking it out... about 
sexuality and the feelings associ
ated with being gay, lesbian, or 
bisexual on campus. The program 
will also discuss what homosexu
ality means to the student body.
The CMU Association for Life 
is sponsoring a guest speaker on 
January 27 at 7:30 pm. Mary 
Winters, a representative from 
Moms House, will discuss how 
women can help choose life as an 
alternative to an abortion.
At 9 pm in the Wherrett Room, 
SDC returns its popular massage 
program from last year. Called 
Hands-on Tips from the Pros, 
the program features the profes
sional massage group Magic 
Touch. The group will be teach
ing participants the proper tech
niques of a massage.
On Friday at 7:30 pm, IVCF 
will have a panel discussion on 
Building Relationships that 
Last.
The program, focusing on male/ 
female relationships, will feature 
various married couples who will 
discuss what helps and hurts 
long-term relationships.
At 8 pm, the Womens Center is 
sponsoring a program called La
tex & Vibrators. The program 
will feature discussion on the use 
of sex toys as an alternative to 
abstinance. The program will 
also discuss the use of latex for 
safer sexual relationships. Both 
genders are encouraged to come.
Finally, Saturday at 9:30 pm in 
the Wherrett Room, SDC ends 
Sex Week with Club Xes, a 
dance featuring a multi-foot video 
screen, a fog machine, and club
like lighting.
According to Karen Grunberg, 
a sophomore in the Social & Deci
sion Sciences Department and a 
committee chair in SDC, Sex 
Week is starting early because 
SDC felt that more people will 
participate in Sex Week earlier 
in the semester rather than after 
the mid-semester break like last 
year.
King's legacy rekindles hope
By BETHANY SUTTON
Tartan Staffwriter
It is hard to believe that, had he 
lived past the turbulent decade of 
the 60s, Dr. Martin Luther King, 
Jr., one of our nations most re
spected and eloquent leaders, 
would have just entered into se
nior citizenship this past Friday, 
January 15. In remembrance of 
his life and the legacy of hope he 
left behind, a special memorial 
observation was given by the Uni
versity late Monday afternoon.
The program began with 
Natasha Jackson, speaking about 
the National Society of Black En
gineers, and the patterns .of selfdestruction which still plague our 
nation today. Violence has be
come an intricate part of our lives. 
For some people, it has become 
natural .... We need to take a 
unified stand against violence, 
she said.A distinguished history 
professor, Joseph W. Trotter, 
spoke on Kings dedication to the 
eradication of social injustices and 
the empowerment of blacks and 
minorities through non-violent 
civil disobedience, followed by a 
candlelight vigil featuring the 
personal reflections on King^s life 
and death.Trotter spoke in praise 
of those who had ventured out
side in the midst of a snow storm 
to celebrate and remember, say
ing that their diversified pres
ence symbolizefd] our hope that 
America will [one day] create a 
true multi-racial society. Focus
ing on the sources of Kings com
mitment to non-violence, Trot
ter highlighted his childhood, 
family, and environment, espe
cially the elder Kings persis
tent defiance of Jim Crow laws 
and refusal to accept the in
grained racism in the deep
South. These _____________
traits had tre
mendous im
pact on the 
shaping of the 
younger 
Kings doc
trines as a 
leader of the 
national Civil 
Rights move
ment. During 
Kings early 
years as a 
Baptist minis
ter in Mont
gomery, Ala
bama, he 
studied the 
works of not 
only Mahatma Gandhi but also 
Henry David Thoreau and Karl 
Marx and advocated the use of 
some measures of violence. He 
deemed non-violence useful in 
individual relationships but of
ten not in massive group con
frontations. On being denied a 
permit to carry a gun in his car 
for self-protection after his 
house was destroyed by a bomb, 
King discarded the only gun he 
owned in recognition of the hy
pocrisy of his actions in relation
to his words, and the ever-grow
ing need to possess the strength 
to love. According to Trotter, we 
must take this occasion to re
member the Dr. Martin Luther 
King tradition of non-violence 
and the value of not only inter
racial but also intra-racial rela
tionships. Only 
then will we reach 
a new level of em
powerment. 
Candles were dis
tributed to each 
member of the au
dience, to represent 
the flame of hope 
which continues to 
burn today in the 
. spirit of freedom 
and justice for 
which King stood. 
After a few medita
tive moments of si
lence, Rabbi Art 
Donsky spoke of 
Kings passion of 
commitment to theMark Eggert/Art Co-Editor
principles of justice, truth, and 
peace, and offered his own hope
ful request that everyone on this 
campus will light a light in honor 
of these ideals. Carolyn Manley, 
representing the Black Faculty
and Staff Association (BFASA), 
asserted that it was Kines 
death which affected her the 
most, proclaiming that 
through his death, I now have 
life ... because of his life and 
death, his dream is now a real
ity. Another member of the 
BFASA, Michael White, noted 
the necessity of adopting for 
ourselves and instilling in our 
children a great faith which, 
in Kings case, was a faith 
which could move 
mountains.Yet perhaps one of 
the most moving reflections 
was given by Xavier Cain of 
Spirit, in which he voiced his 
understanding of the tremen
dous sacrifices made by King 
in order to achieve his vision 
and solemnly expressed his 
own commitment to justice: I 
feel I can do no less. I ask 
myself, Will I risk all for this 
vision? And I answer, Yes.... 
It is not just a legacy for his 
children or family, for blacks 
or whites. It is a legacy for 
everyone to embrace. As King 
himself proclaimed in his leg
endary I Have A Dream 
speech of 1963, We cannot 
walk alone.
I
Student / Faculty
DISCOUNT AIRFARES 
TO EUROPE
Forbes Travel 
521-7300
Professor expands minds
CaM PMiyMgMs biMnC rMiI1iPMis sMiUMs riMsMvCs
THE ORPHEUS CHAMBER ORCHESTRA
WITH WORLD-RENOWNED PIANIST
PROF, from page LI
this aspect of her personality.
" Sitting in her Baker Hall of
fice, Bernstein seemed mostly 
amused with her reminisces and 
energetic about her job. There 
was no hint of the serious topics 
she has broached in her writings.
Bernsteins current project is 
tile second draft of another screen
play for Jonathan Kaplan.
She also occasionally writes for 
'publications such as Poets and 
ijffiers, Ms. , Glamour, Made
moiselle, and other literary magaOne of Bernsteins greatest 
pleasures of teaching is that no 
class is ever the same. She con
tinues to bring stories and enthu
siasm to her classes  anecdotes 
and tales she delivers with a style 
similar to someone like Spaulding 
Gray: she seems not to under
stand why others find her so in
teresting.
As a final note, Bernstein has 
switched from marathons to 
triathlons. Though she skipped 
competitions last year, remind 
her, if you see her, that she is in 
training for this summer._______
Haydn Symphony No. 91 
Mozart Piano Concerto No. 18, K.456
Dvork Serenade for Winds, Opus 44 
Bartk Rumanian Dances
Joining Orpheus will be fiery pianist, Radu Lupu, whose last performance in 
Pittsburgh brought the audience to Its feet in thunderous rounds of applauseTirlratc- Student & Senior Citizen Rush: S10 one hourI IlmClo. j>U  ipyial prior to performance, with proper I.D.
ynoo 9W/. I1i CUy2MCs
or visit the Heinz Hall Box Office.
'U,DMruSDibasOPraGPLDsPDFiDvDToZnBDKDY | PD-SIC UEAS
GRAPHICCOMMUNICATIONS
Skilbfor Success in Todays Tough Job Market
Secure the knowledge and 
professional skills for a 
competitive edge in business, 
communications, journalism, or 
the arts.
The Program in Graphic 
Communications Management 
and Technology can put you on 
the fast track to a career in . . .
Desktop Publishing
For advertising, marketing, 
publishing, and corporate 
newsletters.
Corporate Publishing
Management for graphic 
communication, 
telecommunication, and 
information system networks.
Print Production 
Management
Production management, editing, 
advertising, and sales for 
newspapers, trade journals, and 
consumer magazines.
Scholarship funding is available for 
qualified students. To leam more 
about our undergraduate and 
graduate degree programs or for 
a personal transfer evaluation, 
contact Professors Arnold 
Spinner or Gregory DAmico at 
(212) 998-5125.
MEWtoRK
New York University 
School of Education Program in Graphic Communications Management and Technology
239 Greene Street, Room 737 New York. N.Y. 10003
(212) 998-5125
New York University ii an affirmative 
action/equal opportunity Institution.
Please send me information about your Program in 
Graphic Communications Management and Technology:
? B.S. program ? M.A. program ? Ph.D., Ed.D.
? Summer sessions
STATE ( )
SOC. SEC. NO.TELEPHONE NO.
Retail Services 
wishes to congratulate the winners of the 
Finals Week Survival and Midas Touch Prize Drawings.
There were 157 winners who received approximately $3,000 of FREE 
art supplies, books, clothing, food, and stationery courtesy of:
The Art Store, Bookstore, Carnegie Shoppe, Cleaners/Laundry, 
CMU Fitness Center, Co-Op Store, and Entropy.
Several lucky students won more than once. We were happy with the 
tremendous student support and hope to make this an annual event.
Thank you for your participation and congratulations to the winners.
Patricia A. Stacer, Manager of Retail Services__________________________

---------------------------------------------------

COMICS
Sf you rearrange the letters in the word COMICS, you get COSMIC Weird isnt it?
Whats a Wendell?by Matt Goldberg
TartanCross
by Jeffe Boats
I. Sound of annoyance 
4. Space aliens
7. Mimicker 
9. Flops
II. Units of force 
13. Ms. Tree, e.g.
Villain Darth 
Actor Johnson 
Jim Phelps' crew 
For every 
Ram's mate 
Set of verb forms 
Zero, in tennis 
British author 
Angry
Maui greeting 
Barber shops 
Afloat 
Vein of ore 
Units of area 
In the past 
The Game Wizards
46. Gypsy boy
47. Don't 
49.
On Me
Forsake 
52. TV morning show
56. Frighten
57. Old book
58. Solution set
59. Mass. college
DOW
1. Smidge
2. Snoop
3. Know
4. Improvise music
5. Spanish uncle
Playground feature 
Prepare auto
9. Iron (French)
10. Toronto rapper
12. Amber origin
13. Champion
14. Compass direction 
16. River depositories 
18. Irksome creature
New Orleans
gridiron coach 
Jester 
Twosome 
Face
27. Mesozoic, e.g.
29. __Na Na
31. Everything
32. Use car horn
33. Terminates
36. Unit of weight 
38. Work for
20.
24.
26.
40. Doc Gooden's stat
41. Swarms
42. Swat
44. Avena sativa
47. Tarsal digit
48. Dorothy
50. Not
51. Arid
53. Mr. Deluise
54. Parisien friend
55. Beyond
Answers 
Next 
Week
CIRCUMSTANTIAL 
EV\DENCE. THMS 
ALL W'/E GOT
 by Uhfrctm Plcii S|fX
WHEN QMS GROW UP,
TO GET. TO PLAN WTU 
CARS, SPORTS EQUIPMENT, 
CAMERAS, STEREOS, 
ELECTRIC. TOOLS ...100 NAME \T.
But girls dout set m
WS WHEN WES GROW UP. 
WOMEU JUST BUX CLOTHES
I GUESS G\RLS ACTUALLY 
MATURE AS THEN GET OLDER.
AND SHOES . HCt 80RIUGE CANT WMT \ \| 
UNT\L I'M OLD \ ! 
ENOJGW TO 
"PUTTER AROUND.'-/
^ III ASM
t > {y 1w rf
ON THE OTHER HAND, 
THE NE\GUB0RS KEEP 
PLANTING N\CE.B\G 
TREES UEKT To US.
BV (VUCkl KOCHANSKV3
IT WASNT SO MUCH THEIR BLANK 
EXPRESS IONS THAT STRUCK PROFESSOR SPLIF AS ODD ; IT WAS THAT THEY WERE SO WIDE AWAKE

---------------------------------------------------

y]l-COMf To A )JEU 
yEAP- OF CKlffER. 
MAYHEM!_________
)Y JQgXfEft j, f'CoBAYa-sm
IA ^ V^M {HE fLOrsA l^w riruE
t\f id 
KUU
0tqVHLre Kysps
G/toevirjG
Wa, he>j -nf<-E.|
i-r^ MyNS
Of Od*. 
(jew M/Ie!
otn GnyMv baucPESPOm>,AMEK'/t!
WH/fT BRI NG SY A Stt:
V/EVC EV'EN 
ASKEP MM-iohS* 
Of OOP. REAPERS 
ACCROSi THf 
CON'l'iNfNfAl- U.S. 
what fHen)
UIKE TO Sgg --
(
KRNn LnM0P.6 1/lOUENtt 
51 A GREATER FOoJS OU -JOc-lAt-iSSUE-S
OC.D'9rn
fc:* aiVE OB TAKE A FEiJ.
NT WEEK: NAPAEM EROTICA!
IQCI3
GS MA1t\ 
6omfrug,j6
/i PLE.QG >
( A Lu66iA^C 
ItO FRAfOk: > 
\ZAPPA /
t^T^i
OF TH UOlTC? 
fAUTATlOrOS OP ANieRicA
r-f^T-r
Foe WHICH 
, K6 STANCE
MICHAEL JACKSON 
Tf<c Mining Yean
Tnesf weie r*e /ars of kbzluON ; 
''Nd loud, fast AWASiC. OUT OF THtk 
CHAOS A lovS *'
STOF-y THAT WAS / ,v, UPidhl2p mW Hmqyu INrLLECT Afl> LOT^i 
AtfD u9T OF pRutiV^
%
' ATuAu_y 
WAKTT6 l> 
YOUft. ITTL 
B&orH gx;VPHON
IN Av/e /MICHAEL ngtiDi^ SR Mger rhe 9An^_i UDy.ksPs
YOU
We want you to draw for us. 
Comics or illustrations. Call us at 
x8-2111. Ask for Ramsey Hong or 
Mark Eggert; the Co-Art Editors.
Ml. M/Ka, HBRBS A TIMO-Y <mY! PtARTOHK: UHAT mSMMK ABOUT 10RBV5AI- WCKE 'tOUIKTWUPTW Y&-Mws andof jusreumjs.nS-.SHAWm MISSION, KS."
SUBJECT: MY femr LIFESTYLE MODIFICATION! OUR LINES REOPEN. 60AHEAP,
ZONKER! HENEEPS THE LAST 
PANBL>
BECAUSE REALLY? HOUJ ITS VERY HJOULP YOU 
PAINFUL-TD KMOLUTHAT? '/OURLOVEP WHO 5 THIS?
PEAR Z: YOU SEEM REZONK! LUCTANT TO SHOW THE GET MARKSeRJBS.SU&ES- OUTA POU'-WHY NOT JUST
THERE ! PUBLISH A CUP? HtLP6REAT PEA, R.R.! ONE 
CLIP, COMING UP! ANYONE INTERESTEPIN SEEING THE 
WHOIS SERIES CAN WRITE TO THIS NEWSPAPER ! RDLLJT!
HERE'S HOWTTCAME DOWN, LISTENER. HOWCOULPI DISCUSS GAYRELATEP IS- SUES ON THE AIR HJfTH- s OUT FULL DISCLOSURE?
UM. NO, IW0ULPN7 SO YOU EXACTLY SAY I... OUTED UH... OUTEP MYSELF...YOUR- MORE LIKE... UM... SELF? MOREUKE.-I
!>
SORRY, MAN. TELL MB \
WELL, I SEE MY TIME IS UP, THANKS TO THE OFFSTAGE LUNATIC FRJN6E.
LATR,t "
w ysr- brsJo hn vou
WHY HE'S SO THINK BEING
GAYISEM- SHA\PE. 1 JUST BARRASSING? 5AVEPHIM \
FROMTUTAilY VEMBARRASSING &HIMSeiFf
ZONKER, YOU 
OF COURSE THINK BEING FT IS! IT'S.. STRAIGHT ISrrS6ROS6! GROSS,TOO!
MIKB, WE'VEHIT THEBees THROUGHLIGHTSHIS! MAYBEONTHEYOUR. WREN ISWAYOUT.DID FT, BUT...U1IUYA?
" -mm
7 -

---------------------------------------------------

by Mark Kantrowitz
In a laddergram, the object 
is to transform the word 
on the top rung into the 
word on the bottom rung 
in the least number of 
steps. During each step 
you must replace one 
letter in the previous word 
so that a new word is 
formed, but without 
changing the positions of 
the other letters. For 
example, we can change 
LEAD into GOLD in just 
three steps: LEAD, LOAD, 
GOAD, GOLD.
Tru-cmXFMrr, \woit mwz.i
peM.wvemp,
/AflPHflM" I
a/eueva/rARX236 Jmme/s
Copyright 0 1994 
by Mark Kantrowitz. 
AU rights reserved
IY0Nameom ecse's SKecem/5 u Ta r t cwser. V
By GARY LARSONMKXN
ALKOST EVgynjnJ6.WHAT Do yoH UK.E BEST ) 
AfcQUT TH SKJQW, OfFltZfQJ\ (7IT~ MAKES EVERYTHING 
M \PRfcTTY, WO MTTER. HOW'vA\ \ xnNnwIESvvvpo vou hmbvdt 
we iblgou .l 
/ pRP lgmc JoE
e'k/5
THEAR RNTR VTolVera! Come quick! Some nature show has a hidden 
camera in the Ericksons burrow! ...Were going 
to see their entire courtship behavior!
fWHATS THE E1G6EST]PRGLK Ya SE"E I
your v\zfie otj THE /---------
\ sriteef? "blGoGiin
----------
/LEABS To / cm we,/ HWE f"J 
i0F people ^/ | uj0p-vc
i \ ^"He yjfflltZQr'/// Clos |kj6. 7
THE M\u_ AoliGic ftvJD fSi-u THE
Sv^eSitJ ifJDVSTfclES ume8,l
?EoPt Lo^>E IriElfc Jo&S. THEY Loo, 
fofL VJOR.K, G,UT TH Ef-E 15 
S. THEY Ub5E //
WH/Vr's The Bl66VT ]/ P(Z-W.6.5. AOT> ' 
C|M Y** SEE? / THEFT } So
^/( TeoPlc JCAfO @n.y 
~ \ T"^ llttEH. INs,1 4C,,Ia
11 1 KEtM GiPnn
<NOUJ \
' OJ /V"T vb oD'D'? I ' 
TJooT SEE AMY 
V v>5 PcfWlOG X iw Tue saoLj. ,, \X I WKY
l)bES TH*T Yt^^ '
^uSTioKi-?|o<a -po 
^>AS, ^HoTS fcfllED,
H TUp thU Paw-IyUe
\ fJED B>ACuP------ u)i/of.
jviV s. y
Oh my God, Alice!... Heading right for us! 
A chewed-up No. 2 pencil!
-THE MISADVENTURES OF
MEWZ^L^ND'
By lawsfo rceSn titn dgfufwpfl PA
WHAT'S THE 
MATTER KB.'
mcesoNG-.
"Today, our guest lecturer is Dr. Clarence Tibbs, 
whose 20-year career has culminated in his recent 
autobiography, Zoo Vet  I Quit!
Im sorry, sir, but the reservation book 
simply says Jason. ...Theres nothing 
here about Jason and the Argonauts."L ViM  W' \\XAt\\V> \ww\yu '
WELL HURRY BACK, 
IlA &RILLING-TWS
v iokld
FOR 
M DINNER,W$8&-iitSSS&b PA9.N PvSH..c FGEM9
X HAkVETO GO \ 
OUT FOP. A LITTLE 
WHILE FRANNY. y/ Okmy! Look' 
'eft all +he scary 
l /rffle hungers!
ONE TICKET > 
FOR PITTSBURbH,THATS COOL FRANNY. 
I'M &01N& TO THE 
AIRPORT NOW, OK?
SMOKW& OR NON?
FuNMX tooWNCy K\D.HAVE
FUN!
PITTSBDR&Hf
TetAtif*
Midget westernsDeer Halloweens

---------------------------------------------------

DIVERSIONS
Mystery follows ancient 
traditions in The Dybbuk
By DAVID BAZELON
tartan Staffwriter
There is something incredibly capti
vating about the unknown. A certain 
thrill is obtained just by stealing the 
slightest glimpse of what is esoteric and 
forbidden. The Pittsburgh Public The
ater, with its wealth of extraordinary 
talent, is setting out to remind society of 
such wondrous things with its most re
cent production, The Dybbuk.
The Dybbuk reaches into the past and 
c ; jates an infallible vision of Hasidic 
Js vry in a shtetl, a small Hasidic town, 
in Eastern Europe. The Hasidic Jews 
frrm a unique and important sect of 
Judaism, for they stress the importance 
of faith and rely less on ritualistic tradi
tions than other Jewish sects.
Each Jew, in Hasidic practices, is dear 
to G-d and is respected 
mostly for the celebra
tion of fulfilling what
ever purpose he or she 
might have in life.
Even though Hasi
dism is still a strong 
movement, the shtetls 
cfEastem Europe had 
tieir own personalitr.es apart from those 
ei' modern Hasidism.
This difference is 
mainly due to the des
peration of the com
munities in the 17th 
and 18th centuries.
They were predomi
nantly poor and could 
not support many edu
cators to teach them 
details of the law. All 
major decisions, both 
in religion and law, 
were usually left up to 
a single rabbi who, in 
effect, was the com
munity leader. As a 
result, most of the 
learning was done out
side of general super
vision and was tinged 
with superstition and 
an emphasis on faith 
as the method of solv
ing all ailments.
It is the supersti
tious elements of the 
shtetl that drive The Dybbuks story. 
There is a constant conflict between the 
earthly world which is bound to reality 
and the mystical world which almost 
transcends reality with its magical ex
planations of everyday occurrences. In. 
Judaism, there are two very different 
ways that an individual can interpret 
natures activities and the writings of 
the Torah, or the five books of Moses. 
One way is to follow Talmud which is a 
series of writings that delineate the oral
law which encompasses the teachings of thing, then everything contains a spark
the Torah and how they relate to life. 
The other way is to follow Kabbalah. 
Kabbalah is the study of the supernatu
ral contexts of the Torah. Study of the 
Kabbalah is not urged today, nor was it 
encouraged in the 17th century. The 
Dybbuk, however, displays such studies 
were necessary in the Hasidic shtetls, 
for it was just as important for the head 
rabbis to be able to know how to conduct 
necessary spiritual services as it was for 
them to preside over the communities.
The main problem lies in judging how 
much access the shtetl*s citizens should 
have to the Kabbalah. It is obvious in 
The Dybbuk that everyone knows of the 
Kabbalistic teachings, but few treat it as 
a defining logic. The stories of the peas
ants turn towards bad spirits who lurk 
in the temples at night and the dreaded
courtesy of Pittsburgh Public Theater 
Trial of the living and the dead in the haunting story, The Dybbuk.
evil eye. Early in the play the two 
Yeshiva students, Khonon and Henak, 
played by David Bishins and David 
Kener, have an argument over which 
route is proper to follow. Khonon studies 
the teachings of the Kabbalah in depth 
and can distinguish the teachings from 
mere superstition. He is, however, bent 
on unorthodox ideas that pose a threat 
not only to his life but to his very soul. 
He explains to Henak, an avid follower 
of Talmud, that if G-d created everyof holiness, including sin. Henak in
sists that there are too many dangers in 
such thinking and that it is better to 
advance spiritually in a gradual man
ner. If all understanding is accumulated 
at once, it will be reduced to the empty 
claims of the peasants or, even worse, 
may be misunderstood, creating a catas
trophe.
Such use of dark and foreboding se
crets litter the play. The synagogue or 
temple, which should be a place steeped 
in holy virtues, is referred to as being 
eerie at night and filled with demons. 
Furthermore, it is an invitation for down
trodden individuals who are either pray
ing for health or asking for money in 
return for prayer. Even the location of 
the wedding ceremony is adorned by the 
grave of a couple who had been killed on 
their wedding day.
The sets are kept mysterious 
and dark, maintaining the over
all impression that there is an
other presence overlooking ev
erything. To add emphasize this 
mood, all of the curtains in the 
background are transparent 
and have Hebrew letters lit 
bleakly behind them. The let
ters are situated in a fashion 
that is reminiscent of diagrams 
in the Kabbalah.
The play moves a fascinating 
conclusion, where all the 
misdirection early on is sought 
to be resolved. All of the con
fused images are removed as 
the set becomes more and more 
s^mP^s^c and the characters
15 /I more and more knowledgeable.
It starts with the bickering of 
peasants in a dark and twisting 
synagogue who trade fantastic 
stories of the supernatural, and 
ends with rabbis practicing true 
methods of spiritual confronta
tion in a room laden only with 
chairs. Not everything is re
solved at the end, however, re
minding the audience that 
something unseen lies around 
the corner.
The direction by Edward Gil
bert is superb throughout the 
production. David Bishins and 
Leslie Rohland are extraordi
nary as the young lovers Khonon 
and Leah, whose love truly does seem as 
though it could transcend all earthly 
substance.
The entire cast, along with the sets 
and costumes, could not have generated 
an image closer to a genuine Hasidic 
shtetl.
If anybody is still wondering what a 
dybbuk is, they will have to see the play. 
To reveal the meaning of the Yiddish 
word would make the play far less enjoy
able. Some mystery must remain in life.
Teeth Apart 
heats up winter
courtesy of City Theater
Lori Cardille and Scott Baron play Sally and Sam Truman who cope with the 
gnawing uncertainties of modern life in this Terrence McNally comedy.
By JOHN BIGGS
Diversions Co-Editor
Once again, the City Theatre has 
produced a wonderful show. This play 
stars CMU alum Lori Cardille, Pitts
burgh native Scott Baron, CMU Show
case of New Plays star Joe Olivieri, 
and local actress Helena Ruoti. 
Terrence McNallys Lips Together, 
Teeth Apart is a great way to avoid the 
cold and be entertained at the same 
time.
Set on Fire Island, a primarily gay 
vacation resort, the work follows Sam 
and Sally Truman (Baron and Cardille) 
and John and Chloe Haddock (Olivieri 
and Ruoti) as their untold truths and 
prejudices fester in the Fourth of July 
sun. Sam and Chloe, sister and brother; 
are faced with confronting their two 
unfaithful spouses while John deals 
with cancer and Sam and Sally deal 
with infertility.
These problems explode onstage as 
the actors carry out the stilted mo
tions of vacationing couples until they 
are reduced to violence. The grating 
Chloe, hiding her fear and anger un
der a guise of cheerfulness and bois
terous laughter, tries to cover up her 
husbands infidelity. Sam takes on a 
facade of New Jersey tough while John 
becomes a bored and bitter babyboomer. Finally, Sally becomes fix
ated on a swimmer in the ocean and 
leaves the whole group to their own 
devices. Through the use of strange 
soliloquies in which the characters 
change their style of speech and man
nerisms, McNally deals with relation
ships and homophobia in a creative 
and exciting way.
City Theatres Scenic Designer, Tony 
Ferrieri created a full beach house, 
complete with a quarter-sized swim
ming pool. From the working shower 
to the Sara Lee cheesecakes on the 
kitchen counter, it is evident that much 
thought and careful planning was 
taken in order to create a set faithful 
to McNallys vision. Throughout the 
play, the gentle sound of the surf plays 
over loudspeakers and the reveling 
residents on both sides of the house 
play their music to cues in the script. 
Overall, the staging is impeccable, as 
is the tradition for City Theatre pro
ductions.
It often seemed, however, that the 
characters were saying the same things 
over and over, causing the couple sit
ting next to me to leave after the sec
ond intermission. Also, some of the 
language was overly formal, but this is 
primarily a writing problem. As for 
the acting, Chloe became highly grat
ing and annoying at some points, car
rying on in a loud voice and supplying 
constant chipper comments and excla
mations. Although this may simply be 
the fault of the script, Chloe manages, 
at times, to block out other aspects of 
the play.
Overall, Lips Together, Teeth Apart 
is a fascinating look at modern per
sonalities clashing on a hot summers 
day. With an incredible set and excel
lent cast, this City Theatre production 
is a nice way to spend two hours out of 
the cold and in the searing heat of Fire 
Island.
Lips Together, Teeth Apart is play
ing at the City Theatre, 57 South 13th 
Street, just off of Carson Street. Per
formance times are Tuesdays through 
Fridays at 8 pm, Saturdays at 5:30 
and 9 pm, and Sundays at 2 pm until 
February 6. Single ticket prices range 
between $17-$ 25. Half price tickets 
are available to students 15 minutes 
before each show.
'Killer Instinct crossover merits reading
Let me begin by saying that 
this past week had to be the most 
chaotic week ever for buying 
comic books. First of all, new com
ics were delayed a day thanks to 
this wonderful weather, and then 
they only made it to the shelves 
around 5 pm instead of the usual 
early afternoon delivery time.
Because of these delays, every
one that usually buys their new 
books from around noon to 5 pm 
were all buying them at 5. Im 
used to waiting in line to pay for 
my books, but Ive never had to 
wait in line just to look at the new 
comics.
Also, to make my life a little 
more difficult, it seemed like there 
were two weeks worth of new 
bpoks rather than one. This could 
bp true due to the wonderful 
weather that Anchorage, I mean 
Pittsburgh, has been experienc
ing. Two weeks worth of books at
a, time is not very pleasant be
cause its after Christmas, I 
bought a computer and a whole 
semesters worth of textbooks, 
and its between paychecks. But I 
managed to survive and the silComic Book Chronicles
by Jason Andracki
ver lining under those snow 
clouds was that I was actually 
able to read some (not all, of 
course) of my new purchases.
Probably the best book that was 
released was WildC.A.T.S. #7, 
which is part three of the latest 
Image crossover Killer Instinct 
(not Fatal Instinct or Basic In
stinct), which takes place in 
WildC.A.T.S. issues 6 and 7 and 
Cyber Force issues 2 and 3. Thats 
the official word, but if youre 
picky about continuity, like me, 
the real checklist is Cyber Force 
issues 03 and Wild C.A.T.S. 
issues 5 7. The basic premise of 
the crossover has to do with a 
female telepath, Misery, and her 
relationship with the cybernetic, 
clawed members of the two super 
hero teams, Ripclaw and
War blade. Before I go any fur
ther, let me get some major nit
picking off my chest. Is it just me 
or does Misery bear a striking 
similarity to Jean Grey/Dark 
Phoenix? Come on guys: a redhaired telepath, who on the out
side is a heroine but actually is 
evil and is using her powers (te
lepathy and her feminine wiles) 
to mess with some male team
mates minds and love lives? Also, 
dont those teammates remind 
you a little too much of that ego
tistical clawed mutant from Mar
vel? I know Wolverine is a popu
lar character, but does the Image 
universe need two (not one, but 
two) clawed maverick heroes? 
Another problem that maybe 
someone could help me out with, 
since I dont read Youngblood and 
had trouble following the Cyber 
Force limited series, is did Kill
joy get a sex change and become 
Chapel? Now dont get me wrong, 
I have the utmost respect for Lee 
and Marc Siivestri (especially Lee 
whom Ive been a fan of since I 
first saw his work on The Pun
isher War Journal), but I think
that they could be a little more 
creative with these characters.
Aside from those complaints 
about characters, I think this 
crossover is the best storyline Ive 
read in either of these books. The 
reason I like it so much is because 
it gives you more of a background 
on Ripclaw and Warblade than 
their respective series supply. 
Now I look at these two as real 
characters rather than just Wol
verine rip-offs. Misery is a good 
villainess, because when shes 
pretending to be good, shes re
ally believable. Lee and Silvestri 
have actually made the clich of 
two guys fighting (to the death 
possibly) over a girl seem realis
tic and fresh. Another thing that 
I like is how Killer Instinct is 
related to the recent happenings 
in Gomorra (a take off of Genosha 
from the Marvel mutant books?) 
in Jim Lees other great team 
book, StormWatch. It was inter
esting to see Weathermans reac
tion to the WildC.A.T.S. and 
Cyber Force. Too bad this wont 
become a three book crossover. 
Finally, I especially like the issueso iWildC.A.T.S. because they 
dont revolve around Zealot and 
the Grifter (not that I mind, be
cause its good to have a change of 
pace once in awhile). Another nice 
touch for this crossover is the 
Killer Instinct tour that fea
tured Lee and Siivestri and many 
others from Homage Studios. 
Unfortunately it didnt come any
where near Pittsburgh (it would 
have probably been snowed out 
anyway) so I didnt get a chance 
to go, but if anyone else did I 
would appreciate hearing how it 
was.
For a change Pm looking for
ward to the last issue of a cross
over, because I cant wait to see 
how it ends, rather than because 
it will save me money since I 
usually only buy one of the books 
involved in the crossover. Killer 
Instinct has started off this year 
with a bang and has really im
proved my opinions of both teams 
involved.
Before I end this column Id 
like to bring some great news 
from Image comics. First of all, 
you probably already know, but I
like to tell people anyway, the 
Batman /Spawn crossover is offi
cial. Its due out in March and it 
going to be even better than I 
thought because Todd Mac 
Farlene is working on it with 
Frank Dark Knight Returns 
Miller.
I cant wait to see the capes in 
this book. Also, issues 10,11, and 
12 of WildC.A.T.S. will feature 
the collaboration of Chris 
Claremont and Lee. This will be 
the first time theyre working to
gether since they launched the 
nev/X-Men book a few years back. 
The storyline will introduce 
Claremonts new character, 
Huntman. I dont think Ive ever 
been so excited about two projects 
just from seeing the house ads for 
them.
Jason Andracki is a freshman 
profesional writing major. He 
welcomes any input into his col
umn.
If you have any comments for 
him, send them to Comic Book 
Chronicles do Diversions, The 
Tartan, Skibo 50, or drop them 
off in person at our office.

---------------------------------------------------

Have you ever sat in class and thought you could teach it better?Mow is your chance.
Top 10 Frequently Heard AB Expressions:
10. Turn it off! Turn it off!!
. Sure, I'll take a message.
8. Can I get a t-shirt?
7. Is there gonna be free food?
6. Where's Bonnie?
5. No Dr. Mehrabian, you can't introduce the comedian! 
4. It'll be outside on the Cut...
3. "They Saved Hitler's Brain" is a classic!
2. It'll fit.
1. Did U2s agent call back yet?
na A 19D4-95 Braird
> Applications can be found at the Skibo Info. (Skinfo) Desk. 
Application deadline is February 10th.
Applications are now available.
is hiring 
new instructors for
the Fall of 1994.
Pick one up in the CSW office in Baker Hall 
140, on the CSW Server in the Clusters z;one, 
or in ~cw00 on Andrew. Completed forms will 
be accepted through 
5pm, Friday, February 4th.
IHL SHLA Du:HLS8EDHuO mHuE8mE3
Chris Thyberg, cat+@cmu.edu 
Michelle Seibei, micki4-@cmu.edu
Come to the Information Session on
February 3rd at 4:30pm in the Adamson Wing.
By the way, refreshments will be provided.
From the home office in Skibo ...
(C ini im inn m(dl t ]b<e fiEld hj nQa dl f FIkimiiipy3
Positions available: Coffeehouse, Concerts, Lectures, Special Events, Publicity, Secretary, 
Thursday Films, Friday Films, Sunday Films and Chairperson  anything you could possibly 
want!!
(All members of the current Board, as well as incoming members should keep Friday night, March 11, and Saturday, March 12, free for 
te annual AB training retreat.)
Do it now!
carnegie
mellngraciously funded by your Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

ucomen scopE
Julia Roberts and Denzel Wash
ington star in this adaptation of John
LSAT and GMAT
test takers wanted to 
participate in 
Exam Preparation Study
Earn an EASY $10
For details call Lisa at 421 -9759 
or 268-8112 or e-mail at 
Ih34@andrew.cmu.edu
oH5 sElRAuE 
I8ml,E0 I8LAV
Mon. - Fri. 9-5 pm 
Sat. 10-1 pm 
y8,, X(-/.
The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  24 January 1994 |_9
Thursday, January 27
Easy Rider
Starring Peter Fonda and Dennis Hopper, 
this motorcycle road film about two men 
trying to find America features wonderful 
photography and a heavy 1969 rock 
soundtrack. Directed and written by Hopper, 
Fonda, and Terry Southern, Easy Rider was 
the first in a series of Hollywood motorcycle 
films.
Easy Rider also features Karen Black and 
Jack Nicholson, who won his first Academy 
Award for this performance.
This low-budget flick caused the buddy 
film to go into vogue in Hollywood and cre
ated a place for panoramic vistas and riding 
into the sunset outside of Westerns.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Friday, January 28
The Age of Innocence
Daniel Day-Lewis of The Last of the 
Mohicans stars in this historical drama about 
love and passion in the stilted, Victorian 
1870s. Directed by Martin Scorcese and based 
on the novel by Edith Wharton, The Age of 
Innocence stars Winona Ryder and Michelle 
Pfeiffer as Day-Lewis love interests. Set in a 
New York filled with arcane traditions for 
public behavior, Day-Lewis falls in love with 
Pfeiffer while he is engaged to Ryder. The 
problems that ensue shatter the traditions of 
the previous century.
Scorcese directs The Age of Innocence with 
his customary flair and passion. Filled with 
odd camera work and recurring visual 
themes, the film is a visual masterwork.
The script was adapted by Scorcese and 
Jay Cocks.
At 5, 7:30,10 pm, and 12:30 am.
Saturday, January 29
Demolition Man
Some may miss the wry humor in this 
Stallone vehicle; Demolition Man is filled 
with laughs, though it is not a comedy. The 
action sequences, held together by a loose 
plot, tell the story of police officer Jack Spar
tan (Stallone) and his nemesis, Simon Phoe
nix (Wesley Snipes). The two are taken out of 
cryogenic sleep in order to foil one another in 
the harsh world of 2525. Sandra Bullock 
stars as Stallones love interest.
Marco Brambilla directs Demolition Man 
and Denis Leary makes a cameo appearance 
as himself.
Though not high art, this movie is filled 
with action. For a quick fix of explosions and 
a plot that doesnt hurt the brain, this film is 
perfect.
At 6, 8:10,10:20 pm, and 12:30 am.
Sunday, January, 30
Pink Flamingos
Befor eHairspray and Cry Baby, came what 
is probably John Waters best-known film. 
Pink Flamingos is the story of the filthiest 
people alive  their loves, their hates, and 
their unquenchable thirst for notoriety.
This film is mildly abrasive. For a taste of 
decadence on a Sunday night,Pink Flamingos 
will do you up a treat.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
By JOHN BIGGS
Le Samouri (The Samurai)
Directed by Jean-Pierre Melville, 
this 1991 domestic release is a clas
sic French gangster film starring 
Alain Delan. (Carnegie Museum of 
Art; 8 pm Thursday)
Emitai
A historical drama taking place 
during the closing days of World 
War II, about the conflicting French 
colonialists and the Diolas, a mysti
cal African tribe. (CarnegieMuseum 
of Art Theater; 8 pm Saturday and 
Sunday)
The Pelican Brief
* FREE TRIPS & CASH *
Call us and find out how hundreds of 
students are already earning FREE 
TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH with 
Americas #1 Spring Break company! 
Choose Cancn, Bahamas, Jamaica, 
Panama, Daytona, or Padre!
TAKE A BREAK
STUDENT TRAVELS
(800) 328-SAVE or 
(617)424-8222
Mrs. Doubtfire
Robin Williams dresses up as a 
nanny in order to visit his three 
children after losing visitation rights. 
Sally Fields stars as his ex-wife. 
(Manor Theater; 1,3-JO, 5:20, 7:40, 
9:50 pm daily)
International destinations 
Discounted domestic fares 
AYH & Eurail Passes
I1i4PCinTMo
Experienced, friendly service.
4608 Winthrop St.
(off S. Craig in Oakland)
The Adjuster
Filmmaker Atom Egoyan focuses 
on pornography, the home, and 
power and anxiety within the family 
in this story about Noah, an insur
ance adjuster, and his wife, whose 
carefully orchestrated lives fall apart 
after an encounter with one of 
Noahs clients. (Carnegie Museum 
of Art Theater; 8 pm Friday)
Bad Behavior
This comedy focuses on the lives 
of a family in a small London town. 
(Pittsburgh Playhouse; 7, 9 pm 
Monday through Sunday)
Intersection
Richard Gere and Sharon Stone 
star in this suspenseful movie about 
a husband tom between his wife 
and his lover. (ManorTheater; 1:30, 
3:30, 5:30, 7:30, 9:30 pm daily)
Household Saints
Comedienne Tracey UHman stars 
as a young mother who gives birth 
to Teresa, whose saintly character is 
remarkable considering her envi
ronment growing up among the 
views of three generations of her 
family in post-World War II Little 
Italy. (Filmmakers at the Fulton; Fri
day through Sunday)
Grishams latest novel about assas
sinated Supreme Court justices. 
(Squirrel Hill Cinema World; 7:20, 
9:55 daily; 4:30 pm Friday through 
Sunday; 1 :45 pm Saturday and Sun
day)
Philadelphia
Tom Hanks stars in this much 
talked-about film about a gay man 
who brings his former employers to 
court after they fire him when they 
find out he is HIV-positive. (Squirrel 
Hill Cinema World; 7,9:35pm daily; 
4:15 pm Friday through Sunday; 
1:40 pm Saturday and Sunday)
The Piano
CMU alum Holly Hunter stars in 
the story of a Victorian woman who 
moves to the wilds of New Zealand, 
where she explores her relation
ships with her husband (Sam Neil) 
and her lover (Harvey Kaitel). (Manor 
Theater; 1, 3:10, 5:15, 7:30, 9:40 
pm daily)
Saturday Night Fever
John Travolta stars in this John 
Badham classic about teen angst in
the 1970s. (Beehive; Friday through 
Sunday)
Shadowlands
Based on the life of Christian phi
losopher and childrens writer CS. 
Lewis, this film from director James 
Ivory stars Anthony Hopkins and 
Debra Winger. (ManorTheater; 1:40, 
5, 7:25, 9:45 pm daily)
Monday through Thursday)
Wrestling Ernest Hemmingway
Richard Harris and Robert Duvall 
star as Frank and Walt  two lonely 
men who find companionship in 
each other after meeting one day in 
the park. (Squirrel Hill Cinema 
World; 7:40, 10 pm daily, 5:20 Fri
day through Sunday, 12:45, 3 Dm 
Saturday and Sunday)
The War Room
Chris Hegedus and D.A. 
Pennebaker take a behind-thescenes look at the Clinton presiden
tial campaign in this documentary 
about politics inside Washington. 
(Filmmakers at the Fulton; 7,9 pm 
Monday through Thursday)
Wayne's World 2
Mike Myers and Dana Carvey con
tinue to party on as Wayne and 
Garth in this Waynes World sequel. 
Wayne pursues his vision of putting 
on a marathon rock concert called 
Waynestock while maintaining his 
relationship with Cassandra. (Bee
hive; 5:30, 7:45, 10 pm, midnight
Theater locations:
Beehive: 3807 Forbes Ave.
687-WHAT 
Filmmakers at the Fulton:
101 Sixth St., Downtown 
471-9700 
The Manor Theater:
1729 Murray Ave.
422-7729 
Pittsburgh Playhouse: 222 Craft 
621-6601 
Squirrel Hill Cinema World:
5824 Forward Ave. 
421-7900 
Carnegie Museum of Art
Theater: 4400 Forbes Ave. 
622-3212
ByTARAZANE
THe Pittsburgh Svmphony t
renHE Muza  Misic gHiMUReiBUI 'W
Waynes World 2 is now playing at the Beehive.
>

---------------------------------------------------

Easy Rider, starring Peter Fonda and Dennis Hopper, will be showing 
in Doherty Hall on Thursday.
_f\L os<
Terrence McNallys Lips Together, Teeth 
Apart is playing at the City Theater through 
February 6. Show times are at 8 pm. Call the Box 
Office at 431-CITY for more information.
KADIAdmission to all DH 2210 films is $1 for stu
dents with ID; $2 otherwise. Admission to all 
Pittsburgh Playhouse films, located at 222 Craft 
Avenue, is $4.
Easy Rider will be shown in DH 2210 on Thurs
day at 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Age of Innocence plays in DH 2210 Friday at 5, 
7:30,10 pm, and 12:30 am.
Demolition Man shows in DH 2210 Saturday at
6, 8:10,10:20 pm, and 12:30 am.
Pink Flamingoes will play Sunday in DH 2210 
at 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
War Room shows at the Fulton Theater down
town through Thursday. Call 471- 9700 for more 
information.
Compline Prayer at the End of the Day is
sung every Sunday at 9:30 pm at the Heinz Chapel. 
For more information, call 682-6886.
Tammy Wynette is scheduled to perform The 
Living Legends of Country Music at the Civic 
Arena with Willie Nelson and Waylon Jennings 
on Thursday, February 3 at 7:30 pm. Tickets are 
available at the Civic Arena Box Office or can be 
charged by phone, 333-SEAT.
Chicago band Dolomite and local band Hurl
will play at 8 pm on Thursday at the Duquesne 
Student Union Coffeehouse. Call 422-3983 for 
information.
Lions Gate Trio will perform contemporary solo 
and chamber music at the Frick Fine Arts audito
rium on Tuesday, February 1 at 8 pm.
The Pittsburgh Society of Artists will hold a 
juried group exhibition at the USX Tower located 
downtown through Saturday, January 29. This 
multi-media exhibition contains works selected 
by Martin Prekop., dean of the College of Fine 
Arts.
Ornithology, Michael Pestels newest per
ceptual exhibit, will be displayed at the Hewlett 
Gallery in the College of Fine Arts through Febru
ary 4. .
Christopher Sperandio, a New York artist,
will be speaking in DH 2315 at 5 pm on Tuesday. 
The lecture is sponsored by the Art Department.
includes Pitt and CMU students and alumni. For 
more information, call 421-8140.
Student Dormitory Council (SDC) holds meet
ings every Wednesday at 7 pm in the Wherrett 
Room. For more information, call x8-2114.
The Pterodactyl Speedway student reading 
series holds readings in Scotland Yard every other 
Thursday evening at 7 pm. Come out and support 
the local student writing community. Students 
interested in reading should contact Micki 
Kochanskyj (mk57) or Tina Urso (tu05).
A Rational Recovery support group for those 
with alcohol or drug problems meets every Friday 
at 7:30 pm. Meetings are free and held in Room 
205 of the Wightman Community Center Build
ing in Squirrel Hill. For information, phone 261- 
5363.
Student Environmental Action Coalition
meets every Sunday at 4:30 pm in Gray Matter. 
SEACs job is to motivate students in working 
towards protecting our environment. For more 
information, call 681-8300.
SafeWalk  If you need to walk across campus 
late at night, call SafeWalk between 10 pm and 2 
am seven nights a week at 268-SAFE (x8-2733). 
For more information, contact Ray Tseng at 862- 
3068.
 Rims Incorporated 1993
Come repair, revise, and revitalize your for
eign language skills at the international lan
guage tables held daily over lunch. Sponsored by 
the Modern Languages Department, all language 
tables are held in the Graduate Student Coffee
house, with the exception ofthe Russian language 
table, which is held in the Faculty Dining Room. 
Times are as follows: Tuesdays: Russkii Chas 
from 12:30-1:30 pm; La Table Franaise from 
noon-1:30 pm; Wednesdays: La Mesa Espaola 
from 11:30 am-12:30 pm; Thursdays: Deutscher 
Stammtisch from 11:30 am.r-12:30 pm; and Fri
days: Bentoo Lunch o nihongo de from 12:30-1:20 
pm.
The Carnegie Mellon Railroad Club holds its 
meetings Tuesdays at 6 pm in the Tartan loft. For 
more information, email db74 or jt3y.
Join other set dancers for a night of Irish 
social dancing every Tuesday at 8 pm at 
Mullaneys Harp and Fiddle, located in the Strip 
District at 24th and Penn Ave. For more informa
tion, contact Pete Shovlin at 392-8319.
The Fencing Club holds practices in the Fenc
ing Room in the Gymnasium Tuesday evenings at 
6:30 pm, Thursdays at 7:30 pm, and Sunday 
afternoons at 1:30 pm. All levels of skill are 
welcome.
The Kenpo Karate Club meets on Mondays and 
Wednesdays at 9 pm in Activity Room A and 
Sundays at 2 pm in Activity Room B. For more 
information email cd2b or call x8-2151.
The Self Knowledge Symposium provides a 
weekly forum for students inquiringinto the mean
ing and purpose of life. Regular meetings are held 
Tuesdays at 7 pm in the Cathedral of Learning, 
room 236. For more information, call 343-1907.
Student Senate meetings are held every Tues
day in the Wherrett Room at 7 pm. All members 
of the campus community are welcome to attend 
and speak during audience participation.
The Womens Center Collective holds meet
ings every Sunday at 3 pm in the CMU Womens 
Center. If your group is interested in meeting in 
the center, call x8-3595.
Fear public speaking? Every first and third 
Wednesday, the Toastmasters Club sponsors a 
speech communication workshop at the Carnegie 
Library in Oakland from 7-8:30 pm. For more 
information, call 422-5361.
Jewish Law and Customs Class is held on 
Wednesdays at 7:30 pm in the Israel room (337) at 
the Cathedral of Learning and on Thursdays in 
Skibo 201 at 8 pm, free of charge. Call Rabbi 
Samuel Weinstein at 683-7770 for more informa
tion.
Tlie Poetry and Fiction Workshop, sponsored 
by the University of Pittsburgh, meets every 
Wednesday at 7 pm in the first floor conference 
room ofthe Oakland Carnegie Library. The group 
is an open forum for writers and writers-to-be and
The mens basketball team will play Washing, 
ton University at 2 pm in Missouri this Sunday.
The mens and womens swim teams have an 
away meet against Slippery Rock Saturday at 1 
pm.
The mens and womens indoor track teams 
will compete in the Slippery Rock Invitational on 
Saturday, away.
The CMU Hockey Club will play Indiana Uni
versity of Pennsylvania at the Golden Mile Rink 
in Monroeville at 10:30 pm on Friday and in an 
exhibition against the Pittsburgh Stars on Satur
day in Hamarville at 9 pm.
Wanda and Brenda Henson, lesbian civil rights 
activists who are defending themselves against 
violent anti-gay harassment in Mississippi, will 
be guests on Eyes Wide Open with Jimmer Endres 
and Jon Splenk at 5 pm Tuesday on WRCT 88.3 
FM.
Not your ordinary audition ... Join the Danc
ers Symposium to audition for the spring semes
ter peformance. No experience necessary, infor
mal, and lots of fun!!! Auditions are in the small 
gym Sunday at 10:30 am. Any Questions? Call 
Kayt at 441-4730.
Auditions for Jesus Christ Superstar will be 
held at Apple Manor Playhouse, Manor Road, in 
Delmont, on Sunday, February 6 from noon until 
7 pm. Call the theater at 468-3030 or 468-5050 for 
details and an appointment.
Auditions for Scotch n Sodas Spring Carni
val show will be held Thursday through Satur
day. To audition, prepare a 16-20 measure song 
with accompaniment and read from the Nemeses 
script available in the SnS office. Dancing audi
tions are mandatory and will take place on Satur
day. All auditions must be scheduled. Sign up in 
the Scotch n Soda office, Skibo 60, or call Matt 
Morrow at x2-3029.
Tunnel Press is sponsoring an art competi
tion of fine book art and lithography. Winning 
portfolios will be published. For an application 
call (201) 801-0728 before January 31.
Three Rivers Shakespeare Festival is looking 
for actors and technicians for The Merchant of 
Venice and The Taming of the Shrew. If inter
ested, send a photo and resume by February 4 to 
Casting Director, Three Rivers Shakespeare Fes! tival, 1617 CL, University of Pittsburgh, PA15260.
Applications for the Assistant to-the Direc
tor and four Head Counselor positions for the 
1994 Pre-College Summer Program are available 
now in the Housing Office. Applications must be 
returned by January 31 in order to be considered. 
Contact Steve Lesterson, program director, at x8- 
2142 with questions.
The womens basketball team will compete 
against University of Chicago Friday at 6:30 pm 
in Chicago.
The womens basketball team plays Washing
ton University this Sunday at noon in St. Louis.
The mens basketball team will play Univer
sity of Chicago away Friday at 8:30 pm.
The Roman Catholic Chaplaincy celebrates 
Mass daily on campus at 12:30 pm in Skibo 39, 
Monday through Friday. Weekend Masses are 
celebrated at 10:30 am and 8 pm every Sunday in 
the GSIA Cooper Auditorium. For more informa
tion, call the Newman Oratory Center at 681- 
3181.
St. Agnes Church, 3221 Fifth Ave (Oakland) 
offers the Traditional Latin Mass (Tridentine 
Mass) Sundays at 8:30 am (Low) and 11 am 
(High), first Fridays of the month at 7:30 pm, and 
first Saturdays at 9 am. Confession and the Holy 
Rosary ar offered 30 minutes prior to all Masses, 
approved by His Eminence Bishop Donald Wuerl. 
Call 766-0950 for more information on times and 
dates.
Ecumenical Holy Communion, sponsored by 
the Episcopal, Lutheran, and United Campus 
Ministries, is held Wednesdays at 5 pm in the 
Heinz Chapel.
Tech House will host a weekly Bible Study at
7 pm on Thursdays. For more information, call x2- 
2484.
Shabbat at Hillel is held every Friday with a 
happy half hour (hors doeuvres) at 5:30 pm, 
services at 6 pm, and dinner following. RSVP by 
calling 621-8875.
Daressalam Islamic Center, located at 4100 i 
Bigelow Blvd., offers weekly congregational 
prayers at noon on Fridays. For more informa
tion, call 682-5555.
New Hope Christian Community Church
invites all students to join other young adults in 
contemporary, casual, and uplifting services on 
Sundays at 11 am in the Central Christian Church 
located at the comer of Fifth and Dithridge (134 
N. Dithridge). For more information, call 621- 
6760.
-
Prayer at the Close of the Day, sponsored by ! 
the Lutheran Campus Ministry, is held Sundays 
at 9:30 pm in the Heinz Chapel. This Sundays 
organist will be Cynthia A. Pock, of Sunset Hills 
United Presbyterian Church. For more informa- ! 
tion, call 682-6886.
Smithfield United Church, located downtown, 
holds Sunday morning worship services at 10:45 
am. A free student fellowship luncheon follows 
each service.
The Church of the Ascension (Episcopal)
welcomes all students to join those who worship, 
serve, and fellowship there. They hold services on 
Sundays with a Eucharist at 8:30 am, a college 
class at 9:30 am, and morning worship at 11:30 
am in the chapel located on the comer of Ellsworth 
and Neville in Oakland. A Eucharist is also held 
on Wednesdays at 7 am. For more information, 
contact campus minister Brian VanderWel at 
621-4361.
Shadyside Presbyterian Church holds wor
ship service Sundays at 11 am and a college class 
at 9:45 am. Shadyside College Fellowship is on 
Fridays at 6:30 pm. Contact Dan Moss or Annette 
Ediger to answer questions at 682-4300.
The Lutheran University Center, located at 
4515 Forbes, invites you to join in an Episcopal 
Lutheran Shared Eucharist on Sundays at 5 pm. 
Call x2-6886 for more information.
Christina,
Glad to see you made it through the quake alright. 
Condoms? Dad, you shouldnt have ...
Dave,
Ive been watching you.
hey you, 
miss you lots.
THE LIZARD HAS LANDED,
ABORT TO PLAN Q!
AB
Hi, Jack.
Vox Populi = Voice of the People! Send me your 
ideas. Submissions for Vox and Calendar will be 
accepted at The Tartan drop box at the Skibo 
Info Desk, email gh27, or mail to The Tartan, 
Box 17, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, 
PA 15213.
