Inside
Living.................;...............LI
Sports.................................11
Forum
Writer hates meanies 
 see page 6
Diversions
Explore CMU artwork 
 see page LI
Rebecca Maden/Tartan Assistant Art Editor
Sports
Runner qualifies 
 see page 14THE TARTAN
Volume 91, Issue 17Carnegie Mellon Universitys Student Newspaper Since 190617 February 1997
On the riseCMU increases tuition for fall
By M. McGRANAGHAN
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
The Board of Trustees ap
proved a 4.5 percent increase 
in undergraduate tuition at 
their meetinglastMonday, rais
ing the cost of attending 
Carnegie Mellon from $19,400 
to $20,275. The cost of room 
and board will also increase by 
2.9 percent, going from $6,040 
to $6;215. The rate of increase 
is comparable to that of previ
ous years and only slightly 
higher than the rate of increase 
of the cost of living, which falls 
between 3.5 and 4 percent a 
year.
William Elliott, vice presi
dent for enrollment, said that 
quality academic programs are 
a higher priority than low tu
ition. The thing I worry about 
most is not the price. Its the 
quality of the programs. Col
lege choice is not a financial 
matter. People are not trying 
to reduce the cost when they 
choose a college, Elliott said.
Carnegie Mellons tuition re
mains below that of the institu
tions with which it competes. 
The administration classifies, 
these schools in two categories. 
Tier one institutions include the 
Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology, Princeton, Cornell, 
the University of Pennsylvania, and Stanford, and tier two 
schools comprise Washington 
University, the University of 
Chicago, University of Roches
ter, and Northwestern Univer
sity. As a research institution, 
Carnegie Mellon closely re
sembles tier one schools, while 
CMXFs undergraduate programs 
fit in better with tier two colleges. 
Tuition is another distinguish
ing factor between tier one and 
tier two schools. Tier one institu
tions tend to have a higher cost of 
attendance. According to the most 
recent figures collected by the
administration, Carnegie Mellons 
tuition remains $1,500 below the 
average cost of tier two schools.
Financial aid for students cur
rently attending CMU will also 
increase for the upcoming year, 
though the administration hopes 
to make some changes in the fi
nancial aid program for incoming 
classes. We will honor our com
mitment to the students who are 
here, Christiano said. For stu
dents who will enroll, we will 
offer financial aid, but we want 
the aid to be less of a burden on 
the University. The administra
tion plans to take more money 
from the endowment and also 
campaign for alumni contribu
tions specifically for financial 
aid. The more money we spend 
on aid, the less [money] we have 
to improve the programs that 
draw people here in the first 
place, said Christiano.
Catherine Senderling, a sec
ond-year masters student in 
the Heinz School and chair of 
Student Senate, believes 
changes in financial aid could 
affect those students who are 
Please see TUITION, page 5
COST OF UNDERGRADUATE TUITION AND YEARLY PERCENTAGE INCREASE 
AT CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY
$25,000 r
$15,250 $16,000 $16,960 $17,900 $18,600 $19,400 $20,275
GOST OF UNDERGRADUATE TUITION
91-92 92-93 93-94 94-95 95-96 96-97 97-98
l-Ping Ll/Tartan Managing Editor
Gym requires 
extra security
Anthony Chao/Tartan Photo Editor 
New security guards have been hired to enforce the ID bracelet policy 
in gym facilities. The bracelets must be worn as proof of CMU affiliation.
Renovations improve accessibility
FMS, ADA add new elevator in Baker Hall
By ENA KHAN
Tartan News Editor
The Americans with Disabili
ties Act (ADA) committee, in 
conjunction with Facilities 
Management Services (FMS), 
has initiated renovations in 
Baker Hall to make the build
ing more handicap-accessible. 
According to Everett Tademy, 
director of the Equal Opportu
nity Program at CMU, there 
was a need for improved access 
in Baker Hall. Consequently, 
the ADA designed a proposal to 
remedy the situation in compli
ance with the Americans with 
Disabilities Act, a civil rights 
bill passed in 1991. Tademy said 
that the renovations are not 
occurring because CMU was
not in compliance with the civil 
rights act. Several people on 
campus are wheelchair users.
There is no way for them to 
get to the third floor of Baker
Both of the projects are pro
active projects to increase ac
cessibility campus- wide, said 
James Secosky, a project man
ager at FMS.
Several people on campus are wheel
chair users. There is no way for them to 
get to the third floor of Baker Hall. 
 Everett Tademy, Director of the Equal
Opportunity Program
Hall, said Tademy. An eleva
tor will be added to the main 
lobby of Baker Hall, and 
changes will be made to the ex
isting elevator in the Adamson 
Wing.
The addition of a new eleva
tor, running from the basement 
of Baker to the 360 wing of the 
third floor, will cost $365,000. 
A loan of $385,000 from the 
Capital Allocations Committee,
will not only cover the entire 
cost of the elevator, but will 
also provide $20,000 to pur
chase wheelchair lifts for 
Baker Hall. The ADA com---------- mittee will have five
years to pay back the 
loan.
According to 
Secosky, Turner Con
struction company will 
soon be making a bid 
to take on the project. 
Once construction be
gins, the project will 
take approximately 20 
weeks for completion. Logistically, this was an opportune 
time to install the Baker Hall 
elevator, since H&SS is reno
vating the old bookstore into 
Please see ELEVATOR, page 5
By AMIT N.KAR
Tartan Contributing Editor
Following a series of incidents 
involving unauthorized users, 
Campus Security, in conjunction 
with the Athletic Department, 
have implemented measures to 
better enforce CMUs policy con
cerning usage of gymnasium fa
cilities. The changes, centered 
around temporarily increased se
curity presence during the week
ends, have only been in place for 
two weekends and will continue 
until the situation is brought 
under control.
Although Campus Security has 
been observing violations for some 
time now, Director of Security, 
Chief James LaPaglia, pointed to 
one incident as the motivator for 
more effective policing.
About three weeks ago, there 
was an altercation in the UC gym
nasium. A non-CMU visitor was 
[accidentally] hit in the face with 
a basketball. Afterwards, the visi
tor punched the student [who had 
thrown the ball] in the face, he
said. This followed another inci-, 
dent involving another non-CMU. 
visitor in the Skibo gymnasium, 
and prompted an in-depth re-as-! 
sessment of security policy en-' 
forcement.
The wris-band policy was a. 
good concept, but one that was! 
poorly enforced, said LaPaglia.' 
So, last weekend, we decided to! 
put in place a means of trying to 
cut down on unauthorized usage 
of our facilities.
Initially the new measures saw 
an additional police officer on per
manent overtime detail in the 
UC gymnasium on Fridays, Sat
urdays and Sundays. While this 
has prevented unauthorized visi
tor from getting into the UC gym, 
it created another problem. 
People simply migrated to the 
Skibo gym, said LaPaglia. We 
were just transforming the prob
lem. So we decided to put an ad
ditional officer at both locations. 
While the problem has been 
concentrated during weekends 
and Fridays, it was decided by 
Please see GYM, page 5
Georgian diplomat I Step by step
faces immunity loss
WASHINGTON Feb. 15, (AP) 
 In a rare move, the Republic of 
Georgia lifted immunity for the 
second ranking diplomat in its 
Washington embassy, clearing 
the way for his arrest in a fatal 
car crash, the State Department 
said Saturday.
George Makharadze could be 
charged with crimes reportedly 
as serious as involuntary man
slaughter in the death of 16-yearold Joviane Waltrick.
This is an unusual case, State 
Department spokesman Nicho
las Burns said. There are very 
few instances in diplomatic his
tory where a government has 
Hfted diplomatic immunity in a 
case like this, where the charges 
are so serious.
Were very gratified. ... We 
think this is the best step for
ward, and wee very, very appre
ciative to the government of Geor
gia, Burns said.
At the crash site Saturday, 
Viviane Wagner, the girls mother 
said, Immunity is not impunity. 
... Was it necessary for my daugh
ter to have left for people to un
derstand?
Wagner, a Brazilian immi
grant, has campaigned since the 
accident to force a decision in the 
immunity case.
She has held nightly vigils at 
the flower-strewn site of the col
lision on downtown Dupont Circle 
and has passed out leaflets urg
ing people to bring flowers or to 
Please see IMMUNITY, page 3
Chris Cannon/Tartan Sports Editor
The Tartan Appreciation Program (TAP) is a group that is responsible for collecting donations for the senior gift. Last Tuesday, the 
organization began a 97-day countdown to graduation by inviting amateur tap dancers to perform in Kirr Commons.

---------------------------------------------------

CMUi Mncrne a snceitui oiffle Geuyicmurq a xR vipcbncq xggR
Page Z...
Rebels meet 
with negotiator
LIMA, Peru, Feb. 10 (Reuter) 
 A member of the Marxist 
MRTA rebel group holding 72 
hostages at the Japanese 
ambassadors home in Lima 
and a Peruvian government ne
gotiator are due to meet faceto-face Tuesday in a bid to end 
Perus tense 56-day siege.
Red Cross officials have 
raised their flag over a house 
opposite the residence where 
the number two of the Tupac 
Amaru Revolutionary Move
ment (MRTA) will meet Presi
dent Alberto Fujimoris nego
tiator, Education Minister 
Domingo Palermo.
Roman Catholic Bishop Juan 
Luis Cipriani, a key mediator 
in the hostage crisis, told re
porters Monday: I hope that 
once and for all we will find a 
way out of this situation that 
has been affecting all of us for a 
long time now.
MRTA chief Nestor Cerpa 
CartoUni Monday voiced his to
tal willingness to start conver
sations to end the long siege 
that began Dec. 17, when 15 
heavily-armed MRTA rebels 
stormed the residence during a 
cocktail party and seized over 
500 guests.
It later freed most of them 
but kept prized captives includ
ing two Peruvian government 
ministers, Fujimoris brother 
Pedro, the Japanese and Boliv
ian ambassadors, top Peruvian 
security and court officials, and 
Japanese businessmen.
Cerpa, who will be repre
sented by his second-in-com
mand Roli Rojas, known by the 
nom de guerre El Arabe (The 
Arab), made it clear however 
that he would not withdraw his 
irrevocable demand  the 
release of400 MRTA comrades 
from Peruvian jails.
As the Red Cross made 
preparations including laying 
cables between the two build
ings and erecting tarpaulins 
to hide Rojas from view when 
he boards an armored van for 
the talks, Cerpa made decla
rations by walkie-talkie from 
inside the residence.
He accused Fujimori, cur
rently on a visit to London, of 
making a veiled threat to use 
force if the talks failed and said 
he was still as determined to 
face a peaceful or military solu
tion with the same conviction
Courtesy of Associated Press 
MRTAmeet second-in-command 
Roli Rojas on Dec. 31,1996.
as when he began the siege.
The threat of bloodshed was 
made plain Monday by an ex
plosion followed by gunfire. 
Police said an animal stepped 
on a landmine in the compound 
planted by the MRTA, prompt
ing the rebels to open fire. But 
the MRTA said they had tossed 
out a grenade and fired shots 
to ward off police special forces 
and sharpshooters surround
ing them.
The government and rebels 
have not met face-to-face since 
Palermo met Cerpa in the resi
dence in late December. 
Fujimoris refusal to consider 
the release of MRTA guerrillas 
has stymied attempts at fresh 
talks. He also rules out paying 
a ransom, but has talked of pos
sible asylum abroad for the hostage-takers.
Fujimoris tough stance, 
praised by President Clinton 
and British Prime Minister 
John Major,, also has support 
in Peru where guerrilla vio
lence has cost about 25,000 
lives in the past 16 years. A 
poll published Monday showed 
86 percent also oppose freeing 
MRTA prisoners to end the hos
tage crisis.
Cerpa made it clear Monday 
that the peace process would 
not be easy: The beginning of 
the talks does not necessarily 
mean the beginning of the solu
tion to the conflict. His nego
tiator, Rojas, is a 34-year-old 
former transport worker who 
joined the MRTA while a uni
versity student. Jailed in 1986, 
he tunneled out to freedom in 
1990 and became Cerpas righthand man.
Four-Day Forecast
Tuesday
Wednesday
Partly cloudy. 
Hi 49, Lo 24
Scattered showers. 
Hi 58, Lo 43
Exxon appeals 
Valdez ruling
IRVING, Texas, Feb 13 (Reuter) 
 Exxon Corp. said Thursday it 
has filed an appeal to reduce a 
$5.1 billion amended final judg
ment against it stemming from 
the Exxon Valdez oil spill.
The tanker Exxon Valdez ran 
aground off Alaska in March 
1989, leaking about 11 million 
gallons of crude oil in the worstever U.S. oil spill.
Exxon said it filed the appeal 
on Wednesday in U.S. District 
Court in Anchorage, Alaska, seek
ing to reduce the award that was 
entered on Jan. 17.
We believe that this judg
ment should be set aside or sub
stantially reduced, Exxon said 
in a statement.
It said the filing marks the 
start of Exxons appeal of this 
excessive and unwarranted judg
ment arising from the spill.
Papers filed with the Anchorage 
court Wednesday list more than 
40 legal issues that may be raised 
by Exxon, the company said.
Exxon said it asked the Appel
late Court to review the stan
dards applied by the District 
Court for punitive damages un
der maritime law and under the 
due process clause of the Consti
tution, including a review of the 
size of the award.
The list of issues also includes 
the courts instructions to the jury, 
the courts requiring of a $6.75 
billion letter of credit, and the 
calculation of a number of com
pensatory damage awards, the 
company said.
It said the appeal will be heard 
by the Ninth Circuit Court of 
Appeals in San Francisco.
Exxons stock rose $1 to $104 
on the New York Stock Exchange 
in early afternoon trading.
Aides ignores 
Asian contacts
WASHINGTON, Feb. 15 (UPI) 
White House aides sidestepped 
or ignored warnings about some 
contacts President Bill Clinton and 
Vice President A1 Gore had with 
Asian American fundraisers now 
under federal investigation, a pub
lished report says Saturday.
In one case cited in documents 
released by the White House and 
obtained by the Washington Post, 
a National Security Council staff 
member warned that a Demo
cratic Party fundraiser was a 
hustler trying to trade on his 
connections to the President and 
Hillary Rodham Clinton, even 
presenting himself as a freelance 
diplomat for the President.
Despite the alert, White House 
aides allowed the fund-raiser, 
California entrepreneur Johnny 
Chung, into the Executive Man
sion at least 10 more times.
The Post also reports that FBI 
agents are investigating whether 
the Chinese government tried to 
funnel money to the Democratic 
Party through two friends of 
the president.
The two friends, John Huang 
and Charles Yah Lin Trie, raised 
more than $1.8 million in contri
butions that have been returned 
because of questions about the 
sources of the funds.
Student sues 
school, wins
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla., 
Feb. 11 (Reuter)A Florida stu
dent who was prevented from dis
playing a huge sculpture of a nude 
man at her high school has agreed 
to settle for $45,000 in the law
suit she filed, possibly the larg
est such settlement ever, her 
lawyer said Tuesday.
Rebecca Antolak, 17, an art stu
dent at Dillard High School, sued 
the Broward County School Board 
last year for violating her right to 
free speech. Her oversized statue 
of a man wearing eye makeup 
and lipstick but nothing else was 
removed from the school lobby by 
Principal John Kelly, who said it 
was too risque.
Antolak charged Kellys action 
reflected a double standard as 
sculptures and paintings of nude 
women had been on display at 
the school for months. The 
school district backed the 
principals decision and Antolak 
filed suit in March 1996, sup
ported by the ACLU.
The settlement, which was 
awaiting the approval of U.S. 
District Judge K. Michael Moore 
Tuesday, would pay $25,000 to 
Antolak and $20,000 for her legal
fees. It also recommended a 
change in existing school policy 
on student expression.
I think every teacher and ad
ministrator will know they will 
have to tread very cautiously be
fore they will do something simi
lar to a student work of visual 
art, or performing art, or journal
ism, said Antolaks lawyer Steve 
Wisotsky, a law professor at Nova 
Southeastern University.
Wisotsky said he believed the 
settlement was the largest ever 
in a lawsuit brought against a 
school board that did not involve 
physical image, property dam
age, or economic loss.
Activists urge 
Internet control
LONDON, Feb 13 (Reuter)  
Human rights activists and the 
computer industry j oined in a rare 
show of cooperation on Thurs
day, urging more effective polic
ing of pornography and violence 
in the anarchic virtual wild west 
of the Internet.
Stories proliferate about por
nography, sexual violence 
against women and children, 
bomb-making recipes, incite
ment to racial hatred, and doit-yourself fraud schemes that 
are available at various com
puter Web sites.
We acknowledge the problems, 
were not abdicating responsibil
ity, said Janet Henderson, law
yer and rights strategy manager 
for Internet services at British 
Telecommunications.
We do have the well-being of 
customers and ultimately their 
fundamental freedoms at heart, 
she told the first European con
ference on combating violence and 
pornography in cyberspace.
Lawyers have been studying 
how to police what appears to be 
a regulatory vacuum without 
national boundarieswhile try
ing to distinguish between what 
is illegal and what is, more sub
jectively, harmful.
BT, which launched its Internet 
access service last March, has 
adopted what it calls a taste 
and decency policy. Any illegal 
material found through its ac
cess to the computer network is 
reported to the Internet Watch 
Foundation, which was created
last October.
The foundation also wants to 
encourage legal material to be 
classified, allowing users to block 
access to certain subjects with 
filtering software.
Henderson said the Internet 
allowed anonymous worldwide 
distribution of vast amounts of 
extremely violent material and 
child pornography. But access 
providers could not be the moral 
guardians of the nation.
Speakers agreed that without 
knowing the names of obscene 
websites, even spending hours 
wandering through cyberspace 
was unlikely to reveal anything 
more perturbing than walking 
into a news agents.
German Chancellor Helmut 
Kohls cabinet last year approved 
a bill that will ban websites 
spreading Nazi propaganda, dis
tributing hardcore pornography 
to minors, and conducting fraudu
lent business.
The German division' of the 
worlds second largest online ser
vice, CompuServe GmbH, has 
said it would consider moving its 
operations to a neighboring coun
try if German laws forced Internet 
companies to control porn on 
their networks.
House reviews 
ethics process
WASHINGTON, Feb. 12 
(Reuter)  House leaders 
Wednesday named a 12-member 
bipartisan task force to review 
the ethics process, which was 
badly strained during the inves
tigation and punishment of 
Speaker Newt Gingrich. .
Republican leader Dick Armey 
of Texas and Democratic leader 
Richard Gephardt of Missouri 
also said there would be a twomonth moratorium on filing new 
charges with the Ethics Commit
tee while the task force completed 
its work.
After the past few tumultuous 
months, I think we must have a 
brief cooling-off period wheremembers can sit back and exam
ine where the ethics process 
works, where it doesnt, and how 
it might be improved  and in a 
climate temporarily free from 
potential ethics charges, Armey 
said in a House speech.
American Airlines pilots resume business
ThursdayShowers.
HI 52, Lo 40
Friday
50 YEARS AGO,Feb. 18,1947: 
Plans for the Beaux Arts Ball of 
1947 were cancelled at the deci
sion of the Beaux Arts society. 
The ball, which was discontinued 
during the war, had formerly been 
held every two years. The society 
decided to cancel the ball in keep
ing with the tradition and due to 
a lack of planning.
25 YEARS AGO, Feb. 22,1972: 
The Commission for the Needs 
and Status of Women uncovered 
From National Weather Service bulletins and other sources statistics in the area of compara
Showers.
Hi 53, Lo 42
WASHINGTON, Feb. 15 (UPI) 
 American Airlines is back in 
business after President Clinton 
ordered the pilots to go back to 
work, minutes after they went on 
strike at midnight on Saturday 
in a pay dispute with the airline 
that would have cost the nations 
economy up to $200 million daily.
At Washingtons National Air
port, American employees were 
getting operations back to nor
mal Saturday morning, helping 
worried passengers get to their 
flights on time.
Clinton, invoking his powers 
under the 1926 Railway Labor 
Act, signed an executive decree 
at 12:24 am (EST), halting, the 
strike and naming a three-mem
ber emergency panel to draw 
up a settlement.
The pilots of the countrys sec
ond-largest air carrier went on
strike at 12:01 am (EST) after 
failing to reach an agreement on 
a new contract with the airline 
and a federal mediator.
Defending his intervention, 
Clinton said a strike would se
verely disrupt travelers, cities 
served by the airline, other air
line employees, and the U.S. 
Postal Service.
In a statement issued by the 
White House, the President said 
he was particularly concerned 
that a strike would be especially 
disruptive at the start of the 
Presidents Day holiday weekend.
It is the first time since 1966 
the White House has intervened 
in an airline strike.
The panel created by Clinton 
will have 30 days to devise rec
ommendations for ending the 
dispute. Airline and union rep
resentatives will have another
Courtesy of United Press International 
American Airlines Pilots line up outside Terminal 3-E at the Dallas-Fort 
Worth International Airport. President Clinton halted the strike.
30 days to consider them, with 
no work stoppage in the mean
time. Congress can impose an 
accord if the parties fail to agree 
on the proposal.
The union is demanding higher 
pay and job security for pilots of 
American Eagle, a commuter ser
vice operated by Americans par
ent company, AMR Corp.
Carnegie Almanac
tive pay sales for men and women 
at CMU. The average salary for a 
male full professor was 
approximaely $20,000; for a fe
male full professor, it was 
approxiamtely $15,000.
TEN YEARS AGO, Feb. 17, 
1987: Pittsburgh police arrested 
a man who had been defrauding 
students through illegal ticket 
scams and sales. He would find a 
student with a car and ask for a 
ride to a gas station, claiming his 
car had broken down. He would
then tell the student that he was 
in a band and could get tickets at 
half price. The student would give 
him money and drive him to a 
location where he claimed the 
tickets were located. He disap
peared into the building.
FIVE YEARS AGO, Feb. 17, 
1992: The Civil Engineering De
partment began its recovery af
ter its computers fell victim to an 
international break-in. A SUN 
workstation was allegedly tapped 
into by a group of five or six people
working out of the Netherlands.
ONE YEAR AGO, Feb. 19, 
1996: The CMU Board of Trust
ees raised tuition 4.3 percent in 
response to inflation and a push 
for increased quality of educa
tion. Despite the fact that infla
tion was only 3 percent, the Board 
decided that the extra 1.3 per
cent should be added to cover the 
costs of improvement. 
Compiled by 
ELLEN BELDNER

---------------------------------------------------

MUi Mncrne a snceitui oiffle Geuyicmurq a xR vipcbncq xggRdw
John Henry Cardinal Newman Lecture Series
University librarian retires after years of dedication
By RYAN SCHILLING
Tartan Staffwriter
The Hunt Library Information Center 
will be losing a valuable asset at the end 
of the month. Dorothea Thompson, head 
of the center, has announced her retire
ment after nearly 24 years of service to 
CMU. Its been a long time, and there 
are other things that I want to do,
Thompson said. Ive trained a lot of 
librarians, and I think that its time to 
move on.
Dorothea is an absolutely excellent 
reference librarian. She cares a lot about 
service and the people who work for her.
She is willing to do whatever it takes to 
getthe job done, said Barbara Richards, 
an associate University librarian who 
has worked with Thompson for 16 years
Carnegie Mellon in Brief
and been her supervisor for five. be continuing her hard work at the liShes always had a high standard of brary until her final day, February 28. 
service which everyone else has looked Currently, she is putting together the 
up to and emulated. Its really helped us business pages that she wants to have
to become a department thats well- ___________________________________________
run, said Sue Collins, a reference 
librarian.
Thompson has seen the library 
information center change from a 
print organization to an electronic 
one. She said her main goal in the 
conversion has always been to sim
plify. First, we would learn it our
selves, and then we would ask our
selves, How can we translate this -----
for the students and the faculty to 
make it easier for them? Im a firm 
believer that if you cant make the li
brary systems we have easy for the stumuseums where I hope to enroll to be 
docent, and Im taking a course on the 
architecture of Pittsburgh. She is also 
writing two papers. One documents the
I'm a firm believer that if you can't make the 
library systems we have easy for the students, 
youre not doing the job.
 Dorothea Thompson, 
Head of Hunt library information center
dents, youre not doing the job. She will
up on the Net before she leaves.
Thompson plans on remaining active 
after her retirement from CMU. I like 
to be busy. Ive already investigated two
changes that reference librarianship has 
experienced since the advent of comput
ers and the changes that will arise in the 
future. She believes it has enhanced the
image of the librarian, and at the same - 
time expanded their roles.
The library has formed a search com-' 
mittee to recruit potential replacements 
for Thompsons position. Right now 
they are working out the details on" k - 
national advertisement that will be used ; 
to aid their efforts. Of course, whdn 
you have someone who has worked for 
you for 25 years, you can never replace 
them, said Richards. The committee . 
hopes to have found someone by the ; 
start of the 1997-98 school year.
Well miss her a lot. Shell be leaving ; 
a big hole, Richards continued, but she ; 
also empathizes with Thompsons deci-; 
sion. The life of a librarian is not as easy | 
as it looks.Collins said, I dont think; 
Ive quite come to terms with it. Its hard ; 
to imagine this place without her. ;
Professor earns Large award fundUniversities, the University of CaliforUniversity honor expand programs versity of New York at Stony Brook.
Network speeds 
up transmission
Computer Science Professor Randal 
Bryant received the Carnegie Mellon 
University Presidents Professorship of 
Computer Science, and endowed chair 
created by CMU President Robert 
Mehrabian.
Bryantjoined the CMU faculty in 1984 
after earning a doctoral degree in elec
trical engineering and computer science 
from the Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology in 1981. Since then, he has 
made several breakthroughs in the de
velopment of computer-aided design tolls 
and for his research in symbolic ma
nipulation and parallel computation. He 
developed the MOSSIM simulator  
the first tool that could accurately model 
the behavior of very large scale inte
grated circuits  which the Intel corpo
ration used for 10 years to simulate 
processors in its 80X86 line. Currently, 
Intel uses COSMOS, the successor to 
MOSSIM, which Bryant also developed.
Additionally, in 1985, Bryant formu
lated several extremely efficient algo
rithms based on binary decision dia
grams (BBDs) to manipulate the switch
ing functions that form the basis for 
computer designs.
Carnegie Mellon University was one 
of 10 research universities granted 
$500,000 from the National Science 
Foundations Recognition Awards for the 
Integration of Research and Education. 
CMU was one of 100 applicants for the 
grants, which are distributed over a 
three-year period. The grants will al
low considerable flexibility for institu
tions to continue innovative work build 
upon past achievements, according to a 
statement released by the NSF.
CMU Provost Paul Christiano stated 
that the funds would be used to expand 
the Mellon college of Science Freshmen 
Seminar in Science, expanding the Un
dergraduate Research Initiative, and 
expanding the academic-year grants 
program to continue through the sum
mer months. Christiano also plans to 
fund a core of undergraduate research
ers who will study research-oriented 
courses in an effort to understand how 
students learn from their own research, 
in collaboration with the Eberly Teach
ing Center for Excellence and the Cen
ter for Innovation in Learning.
Other winners are the universities of 
Arizona, Delaware, Michigan, Missouri,
With a grant of more than $300,000 
from the National Science Foundation, 
Carnegie Mellon University research
ers will soon be able to transmit and 
receive information over the very high 
speed Backbone Network Service 
(vBNS). The vBNS is the network that 
connects the nations four National Sci
ence Foundation supercomputing cen
ters in Pittsburgh, the University of 
California at San Diego, the University 
of Illinois, and Cornell University.
The link will transmit at 155 megabits 
per second and should be operational in 
late spring. It will allow a certain num
ber of users a great deal of bandwidth, 
alleviating the problems of congested 
networks that most internet users have 
to contend with.
Several CMU-based research projects 
will benefit immediately from the tran
sition. One is the Automated Interactive 
Microscope project; another allows re
searchers to better model earthquakes.
Diplomat loses immunity
IMMUNITY, from page 1
write to authorities and demand jus
tice for her daughter.
Wagner called Georgian President 
Eduard Shevardnadze a man of cour
age for waiving Makharadzes diplo
matic immunity, and the United States 
a country of justice. Last month, 
Shevardnade ordered Makharadze to 
remain in the United States until au
thorities complete the investigation.
In West Hartford, Conn., the driver 
of the car that was struck by the diplo
mat and catapulted onto the one in 
which the teen-ager was riding, ex
pressed a measure of relief.
He has hurt many lives, and this 
doesnt make them better, said Patty 
McQueen, 38.
Because of this mans driving, a 16- 
year-old girl was killed and my car was 
the instrument of her death. she said.
McQueen was in Washington work
ing on President Clintons inaugural at 
the time of the accident.
The next step in the legal process 
facing Makharadze is for the Justice 
Department to file formal charges, Bums 
said. The State Department will trans
mit Georgias official notification to the 
Justice Department on Tuesday, he said.
The case has drawn immense public 
interest in the Washington area since 
the Jan. 3 crash in the city center.
Makharadzes car slammedintotheback  
of another car, and the impact sent the  
second car into the air and onto a third 
vehicle in which the Waltrick girl wasa i 
passenger.
She died at a local hospital. Police said  
Makharadze, 35, had been drinking and  
appeared to have been speeding.  \ 
The Clinton administration officially 
asked the Georgian government to waive  
Makharadzes diplomatic immunity after 
the prosecutor said he could not bringcharges without the waiver. U.S. Attorney | 
Eric Holders letter to the State Department also specified charges Makharadze; 
would face, but the charges were not publi-; 
cized.
A television station and newspapers; 
reported, however, that the letter said the; 
government would seek a charge of invol-; 
untary manslaughter in the teen-agers; 
death. . |
In announcing the waiver of immunity, | 
Burns expressed the State Departments) 
appreciation to for this courageous ac-j 
tion.
Hesaidthedepartmenthadhadastrong} 
indication from the Georgian government; 
thatimmunitywouldbelifted, but it wasnt; 
a sure thing.
Bums made the announcement before; 
boarding an airplane taking Secretary of; 
State Madeleine Albright to Rome on the; 
first stop of an around-the-world trip. ;
This spring, join MhGu srA sffDsw 
one of the biggest diSbCtCS 
fundraising events in history.
The Pittsburgh Oratory
Newmans Final Vision of the Church:
The Development of a Christological Ecclesiology
Drew Morgan, C.0.
Ph.D. Candidate, Systematic Theology, Duquesne University 
Campus Minister, Ryan Catholic Newman Center
Vatican II has changed the face of Roman Catholicism 
dramatically. Aggiornamento was the cry to bring the 
Church up to date in the modern world. 
Ressourcement was the mean to accomplish this great 
taska return to the original sources of Catholic 
identity. The work of the 19th century Anglican 
convert John Henry Cardinal Newman can assist us 
today in both of these unending tasks: in the challenge 
of the future life of the Church and in grounding 
ourselves firmly in the past sources that made Vatican 
II possible. Newman builds the bridge between our 
Catholic heritage and our Catholic hope, anticipating a 
beautiful vision of the Church for the future.
Friday, February 21, 1997, 
7:30 pm-8:30 pm 
at The Oratory,
Ryan Catholic Newman Center
RSVP to 681-3181 
by February 19,1997 
Discussion and light refreshments will follow. 
Join us. We look forward to your participation.
The Pittsburgh Oratory
4450 Bayard Street 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213 (Oakland)
C1
Ride and raise money to fight 
this deadly disease.
Al
a cycling event of' merican Diabetes Association
or visit us at 
www.diabetes.org/tour
Sign up today, call
1-800-T0UR-888
(1-880-868-7888)

---------------------------------------------------

Reproductive Hormones & Stress
A
 wave of excitement is rolling through GenRad. Why? 
Because manufacturers, like our employees, are 
feeling the force of our ingenuity like never before. 
Industry leaders in transportation, communications, 
aerospace, computers and contract manufacturing 
are relying on information from our custom-designed, 
in-line test systems to help them continuously 
improve quality and maximize production. Gone are 
the days when our test equipment was used only 
at the end of the line to detect defects. Today, our 
systems work throughout the process, and enable 
users to find and troubleshoot problems immedi
ately. What's more, talented technical professionals 
rely on us to provide them with the challenges and 
rewards that come with creating innovative hard
ware, software and service solutions across the 
entire manufacturing and after-market service spec
trum. And with double-digit growth, enhanced offer
ings and focused vision, we are more 
than able to do just that-and 
plan to do so well into the nex 
century. So renew the ambi
tion and entrepreneurial 
spirit that made you the 
talent that you are. Join i
forces with GenRad. I
Pittsburgh, PA 15232(412) 441-4444
http://pittsburgh.net/Shadysidelnn/GenRad
The Technology of Knowledge.
TOYOTA1 S REMARKABLE RAV4
"... The RAV4, Which Corners Better, Rides More Smoothly And Feels 
More Nimble Than Any SUV Made." -AutoWeek, June '96 
"The RAV4 Is A Fun-Junkies Dream Machine." -Car And Driver, April '96
"Toyota's New RAV4 Seems To Bridge The Cast Chasm Between Car And Truck. This 
Little Wagon With Big Wheels Is A Car And A Truck." -Car And Driver, April '96
"Rally-Car Performance, Camry-Like Quality" -Car And Driver, July '96
There's More. Your RAV4 Can Be A 2-Door Or 4-Door, A Front-Wheel 
Drive Or A 4-Wheel Drive, On-Road Or Off-Road With Room For Up 
To 5 And Cargo, Too.
TOYOTA RAV4 . . . IT'S OUT THERE AT YOUR
TOYOTA
I love what you do for meDEALER NOW!Simply Best
THETARTAN
Because news 
happens, and 
someones 
got to cover it.
Since 1506"
CMUMincr eas ctu uocsMasfnlMsrG
Healthy women between the 
ages of 18 and 35 are 
needed for a study at MageeWomens Hospital in Pitts
burgh, PA. Women with and 
without regular periods 
(menstrual cycles) will be in
cluded. Qualified women may receive free 
testing (41 2)-- DA ILY,A4W(EA1K For more infor
mation please call (412) 641-1602.
Magee-Worneas Hospital
___________________TO___________________kWuTsTTSSTTS
Ivr'a lifetime.
Internet Address: http://www.magee.eduQuantum
A SCIITE FOR LESS 
THAN A HOTEL ROOM
Career Opportunities At GenRad
Account Executives
WolfPack Development Program
If youre earning :i BSP.P. and an: interested in pursuing an account 
management career in the'marketing/sales area, this could be an exciting 
opportunity lor you to join our cross-functional team environment; Push the 
limits of your career and creativity in our year-long, hands-on training pro
gram. offering in-depth exposure to our worldwide operations in 
Marketing. Engineering. Manufacturing. Sales and Customer Support.
You'll develop extensive knowledge of the Printed Circuit Board market 
and manufacturing process, test and inspection challenges, product life 
cycles, the design environment, as well as GenRad's printed Circuit Board 
product lines. In addition, you'll develop and reline your skills in the areas 
of customer tccount management and presentation, business finances and 
computers. Travel and relocation may be required.
We offer a highly competitive salary and a generous benefits package that includes 3 weeks vacation to 
start, 100% tuition reimbursement up to $5,000 annually, 401 (k), stock purchase plan, medical benefits 
and more. For immediate consideration, and the opportunity to arrange an on-campus interview, please 
contact the Carnegie Mellon University, Career Center, or forward your resume to: Human Resources, 
GenRad, Inc., 300 Baker Avenue, Concord, MA 01742; FAX: (508) 287-2091; e-mail: jobs@genrad.com. For 
more information about GenRad, please visit our web site: http://www.genrad.com. We are an equal 
opportunity employer committed to building a diverse workforce. M/F/D/V.
SoftwareDevelopment
These Produci Development positions encompass all areas of Software 
Engineering, including System Programming.' Hardware Diagnostics. 
Network Programming. Software Tools and Software Evaluations. You'll 
work on projects using Windows NT and Windows 95 to deliver to our 
customers products that solve their problems in developing a wide variety 
of manufacturing solutions.
Applicants should be a candidate fora BS in Computer Science. Electrical 
Engineering or Computer Engineering: an MSCS or MSEE will also be 
considered.
5405 Fifth Avenue
And that's only the beginning. Because at Quantum, there's more pro
pelling our leadership in mass storage than disk and tape drives. Like the 
passion of our people. In fact, their extraordinary initiative has produced 
over 55 million disk drives. And with ambition like ours, we'll never rest on 
our laurels.
Our vision is to lead every aspect of storage into the digital age. Get more 
for your career than the same old drive.
Opportunities for graduates with the following: M.S./Ph.D. in EE
On-Campus Interviews 
Thursday February 27
For consideration, please mail or fax your resume to Quantum, Human 
Resources Dept., indicating job Code COT021 7S, 500 McCarthy Blvd., 
Milpitas, CA 95035; FAX (408) 894-4152. See us on the World Wide Web: 
http://www.quantum.com. Email: jobs@qntm.com. Modem access:
(415) 903-5815. 8, N, 1, ANSI/VT100. Principals only. Equal opportunity 
employer M/F/D/V.
Elegantly furnished one- or two-bedroom apartment suites include an equipped kitchen, 
fluffy linens, TV, VCR, cable movies, free local phone service, and reserved parking.
Conveniently located at 5405 Fifth Avenue, Shadyside. Two blocks from Walnut Streets 145 
fashionable shops and 12 delicious restaurants. One mile to CMCJ/Pitt/Hospitals.
DAILY, WEEKLY, MONTHLY RATES
Orlando

---------------------------------------------------

MUi Mncrne a snceitui oiffle Geuyicmurq a xR vipcbncq xggRTuition increases 
for upcoming fall
TUITION, from page 1
classified in the no need group and 
therefore receive purely merit-based 
aid. According to figures presented at 
a combined meeting of the Enrollment 
and Educational Affairs and Budget 
Committees of the Board of Trustees, 
the administration plans to signifi
cantly reduce the rate of increase of 
financial aid. In 1996, financial aid 
increased by almost 16 percent, and 
projected figures for 1997 show a 14 
percent increase. In 1998, however, 
the preliminary figure for the increase 
in aid is only 5 percent. Senderling, 
who attended the meeting as Student 
Senate chair, said, With a smaller 
increase in financial aid, they might 
need to adjust the numbers on who 
gets money, and maybe not as many of 
the merit scholarships will be avail
able.
The administration held a meeting 
with representative groups of parents, 
students, and faculty in order to hear 
their opinions regarding the proposed 
tuition increase. The meeting takes 
place each year in December or Janu
ary prior to any discussion with the 
trustees. Christiano said, We describe, 
as best we can, the picture to that 
group, and we try to understand their 
concerns and their reactions... We lis
ten to them. According to Christiano, 
parents and students, though reluc
tant to see tuition rise, ultimately sup
port the increase in order to allow for 
the enhancement of academic programs 
and the campus itself.
Factors that tend to increase tuition
include improvements in facilities and 
equipment, the need to offer competi
tive salaries to faculty, demand for 
non-academic services, and less rev
enue from other sources such as the 
endowment, enrollment, and sponsored 
research. The administration plans to 
hold enrollment to a smaller number 
this year after taking in 100 extra stu
dents in the fall of 1996. We want to 
enroll 1280, which is what we wanted 
last year, said Christiano. We got 
about 1380. This year we will safe
guard against that. Research that does 
hot pay for itself also affects tuition, 
though according to Christiano, out
side sponsors do meet most of the direct 
costs associated with such work.
Strategic investments for the coming 
year include faculty and advising, re
search opportunities, and undergradu
ate education initiatives such as the 
Bachelor of the Humanities and Arts 
program, the School of Computer Sci
ence, and the Center for Innovation in 
Learning. We have not increased tu
ition with a specific large project in 
mind, Christiano said. Rather, I think 
theres a whole list of things that need 
to be done.
I think by now everyone must ex
pect that tuition is going to go up 
every year, Senderling said. I hope 
they took a look at what they needed 
and decided that a 4.5 percent in
crease would give them what- they 
need. I hope it wasnt just- arbitrary. I 
dont believe that it was, but in the 
future, they need to keep justifying 
their increases.
Facilities enforce ID policy
GYM, from page 1
Campus Security and the Athletics De
partment to take steps towards increased 
security during the week too. Campus 
Security officers conducting regular pa
trols in the UC and the Skibo gymna
sium, must now make periodic checks at 
all recreation facilities. LaPaglia said, 
Weve greatly increased our presence 
in the building.
The presence of security officers has 
come as a welcome change to the student 
attendants at the equipment desk. Alex 
Rokowski, a senior Industrial 
Managment major said, Its good to 
see the presence of an authority figure 
to keep the courts open. Cliff 
Brangwynne, freshman chemistry ma
jor said, Its helping a lot  theyre 
taking people out like crazy. Before, 
they wanted us to do it. But, if you see 
some big guy come up to me, and I tell 
him to leave, hes just gonna say, fuck g 
you. Officer I. Howard, on UC gym 
detail on Sunday afternoon, confirmed 
this sentiment. When you get a uniform 
in there, its a different story,  he said.
However, Brangwinne has spotted a 
minor shortcoming in the current level 
of security. One problem is that people 
who play basketball like to play with 
outsiders because theyre usually good, 
he said, Sometimes, when someone gets 
here and sees only CMU students in 
there, they walk away.
In a more drastic move, Security and 
the Athletic Department have jointly 
decided to indefinitely suspend the guest 
policy at the Skibo gymnasium. This 
was the result of the revelation that 
CMU students were being intimidated 
into taking outsiders in as guests. We 
saw CMU students being intercepted 
outside [the Skibo gym], especially fe
males, said Dr. John Harvey, Director
of the Athletics Department. Our stu
dents should not feel intimidated while 
using their own facilities, said LaPaglia. 
While this temporary suspension of guest 
privileges means that guests cannot sim
ply turn up at the door and expect to get 
in, Dr. Harvey stressed that guests can 
be allowed in if an arrangement is made 
with the Athletics Department in ad
vance.
Meanwhile, guests brought to recre
ation areas in the UC must now leave 
valid photo I.D. at the equipment desk
Whatever it takes to get the situa
tion under control is what we'll do. 
 James LaPaglia, 
Director of Security
and procure a wrist-band. Formerly, only 
the CMU-affiliated party had to leave 
I.D. We want guests to be just as iden
tifiable as their sponsors, said Harvey.
Another problem with current secu
rity measures has surfaced in the theft nel] until we get the situation neutraljof the green wristbands which are in- ized, said Dr. Harvey. Asked about 
tended to identify legitimate users of whether the problems will return onc^
This is due, primarily, to the issue of th^ 
associated cost of keeping additional sef 
curity officers at both gym locations ori 
Fridays and weekends, and the absenc^ 
of a university-wide policy on guestf 
usage of campus facilities. From my 
point of view, I think [having additional 
officers] is a better solution, said 
Howard, but you have to think about 
the cost. Harvey added that the univerjsity is in the process of collating data 
concerning usage of various facilities sq 
that an overall policy can be developed;.
______________________ The data is to
be evaluated 
by a committee 
headed by 
Steve Sitrin' 
director of th^ 
U niversity 
Center, and 
Dr. Bill Elliot; 
 i  vice president 
for Enroll*- 
ment, and will be used to determine 
policies on issues such as guest and 
alumni access. We dont know what 
were doing in the long run. Were only 
doing this [increased security person;
gym facilities. However, feeling the con
cept behind the current wristband policy 
to be sound, the concerned administra
tion have decided simply to tweak it, 
rather than attempt to replace it. Were 
going to get disposal wristbands in dif
ferent colors and just change the colors 
periodically. Id say [this will start] 
within the nextweekorso, said Harvey.
The recently implemented measures, 
with the exception of colored wristbands 
and more frequent checks during regu
lar patrols, are not permanent solutions.
the additional security officers are taken 
away, he replied, Im not too hopeful;. 
The population thats trying to get in is 
a very resilient and adaptable  theyll 
find ways in.
In the meantime, Campus Security is 
determined to maintain a flexible approach 
to the situation. When the problem abatesj 
well remove the additional weekend dettails. But, if it starts to come back, well 
station officers there again, said LaPaglia! 
Whatever it takes to get the situation 
.under control is what well do.
A new addition...
vo8 cielynrim 0nTic .nff
ELEVATOR, from page 1
faculty offices and graduate workspace, said 
. Secosky.
Three new mens rooms, one on each floor, will 
be built in Baker Hall because the shaft of the 
new elevator will run through portions of the 
existing restroom facilities. The addition of the 
elevator in Baker Halls main lobby, has forced the 
Gourmet Avenue Food Cart to be relocated to the 
basement of Porter Hall.
The majority of the work will be done on first
shift, between 7 am to 3:30 pm. The remaining 
construction will be done during evening hours 
to prevent disruption to the students and staff in 
adjacent areas. Changes will also be made to the 
existing elevator in the Adamson Win'g of Baker 
Hall. The current elevator will be modified to 
include an emergency phone, floor announce
ment tones, electronic closure on the door edges, 
and Braille informational plates that indicate 
floor numbers. The adjustments, which will be 
completed by Lynns Elevators, will cost $6000.
Company patents genes
Crime and Incident Report
EXPLOSIVE DEVICE 2/11,
I 8:22 pm ~ A complaintant noti
fied CMU police that she had 
I seen several males playing 
around with some type of fire or 
explosive, stating that she heard 
an explosion in the vicinity of 
i Donner Hall. Police discovered 
I three males walking towards 
Margaret Morrison Street, whom 
they stopped. One of the males 
j was carrying an insulated ther. mal jug that contained liquid ni
trogen and an empty plastic soda 
bottle. Another was carrying a 
| plastic garbage can that con| tained a rubber hose and a funnel. He stated that they blew up 
a plastic bottle for fun in the 
I intermural field and also admit[ ted blowing one up next to 
| Donner. One of the males ob
tained the liquid nitrogen, which 
was leftover from an experiment 
in the Physics department.
The three were warned that 
their actions were dangerous and 
were released with a verbal 
warning.
THEFT 2/12,9:35 pmWhile 
arresting a CMU student, cam
pus police found several items of 
a suspicious nature inside the 
arrestees coat pockets. One of 
the officers recognized them as 
being promotional items from a 
credit card vendor on campus. 
The arrestee had four of these 
items, which police interpreted 
as a sign that he had signed up 
for four credit cards. Several of 
the charges which the student
was being arrested for involved 
credit card fraud, so police spoke 
with the vendor. The vendor 
stated that the arrestee had only 
filled out one application but that 
he had bragged about having sto
len ten t-shirts from a credit card 
vendor last fall.
CONTROLLED SUB
STANCE 2/8, 12:22 am  A 
Mudge House RA reported to po
lice that she smelled the odor of 
marijuana on her normal rounds. 
Police reported to the indicated 
location in Mudge and, smelling 
the odor of marijuana, knocked 
on the door ofthe roomfrom which 
it was coming from. No one an
swered, and finding the door 
unlocked, police opened the 
door. Police saw an ashtray on 
a desk, which contained the 
burned ends of marijuana 
cigarettes.Police obtained the 
names of the residents from the 
Student Housing Roster.
Later, while responding to a 
report of an inebriated person, 
police found that the individual 
was a resident of the room in 
which they had found the mari
juana.
MEDICAL 2/10, 9:00 am  
Police responded to a report that 
a person had fallen on the side
walk between the University Cen
ter and the football field. Upon 
arriving, police found that the 
student had slipped on a patch of 
ice and had dislocated her knee
cap. The student had pushed the
kneecap back in place and re
fused transportation to the hos
pital. The student stated that she 
had had problems with her knee
cap in the past.
HARASSMENT BY COM
MUNICATION 2/12,4:26 am  
A CMU student reported to po
lice that she had received 15 - 20 
harassing phone calls between 
4:00 am and 4:20 am. The stu
dent said that half the time, the 
caller(s) had hung up immedi
ately; the other half, they had 
breathed heavily into the receiver. 
The student reported that the 
calls seemed to have stopped af
ter she told the caller th^t she 
was calling the police.
 Chief of Campus Police, James 
LaPaglia,reviews dll reports prior 
to release.
 Only three people on The Tar
tan staff see the reports: the Editor-in-Chief the News Editor, and 
the staffwriter typing the report.
 All personal names of com
plainants, victims, suspects, and 
fraternity names are omitted from 
the printed report. Ethnic descrip
tions and other personal details 
are given only in the context of 
complete descriptions.
 Not every incident that occurs 
on campus appears in the report.
Compiled by 
ELLEN BELDNER
SEATTLE, Feb. 14 (UPI)  A 
top patent official says his office 
is allowing companies to gain ex
clusive rights over genetic cod
ing, a policy decried by genetic 
researchers.
Deputy patent commissioner 
Lawrence Goffney today (Friday) 
says ESTsestimated sequence 
tags  deserve government 
patent protection. An EST is part 
of a gene, but is sufficiently long 
enough to identify a specific gene.
Scientists say patenting an EST 
gives an individual control over 
genes  without even knowing 
what the gene does  and will 
have a chilling effect on biotech
nology research.
In a surprise announcement at 
the annual meeting of the Ameri
can Association for the Advance
ment of Science in Seattle, 
Goffney said, The U.S. PTO 
(Patent and Trademark Office) 
has decided to allow claims to 
express sequence tagsESTs ' 
based on their utility as probed. 
ESTs are now to be patented and 
if you dont like it, talk to your 
Congressman. Goffney said that 
the way his office interprets 
present law, ESTs can receive 
patent authority.
The decision is very unfortu
nate, says Dr. Leroy Hood, pro
fessor and chairman of molecular 
biotechnology at the University 
of Washington.
I am dismayed that you can do 
sequences and gain control of a 
gene. I suspect the issue is not 
over.
Its an appallingly bad thing to
have happened.
In a symposium on patent isr 
sues, Hood says there are certain 
areas where patenting genes 
malts sense- commercially and 
economically, but the worst exi 
ample of what to patent are ESTs 
which can be produced by simple 
manipulation of commercially! 
available sequencing equipment!
Much of the opposition to ESTs 
is due to the fact that the se! 
quences are incomplete, contain! 
ing just enough of the genetic 
code to make it identifiable. !
Researchers fear that by pat! 
enting ESTs, the holders of th 
patent will not have to do any 
work in figuring out how th 
gene benefits mankind, but will 
reap the rewards of the work of 
others.
Tired offtAmerican HeartthrowingAssociations^^ .
Fighting Heart Diseaseyour weight
and Stroke ";
around?Exercise.
Corrections/Clarifications ...
The Tartan corrects all known errors of facts. If you 
know of an error, please contact Sharmila 
Venkatasubban at x8-2111, or email her at 
tartan@andrew.cmu.edia.
 A Not-So-Uglv V- \t-i s'
.ft.)'' Mug
H Peters Cellar^ | -t A Christian Coffee Mouse with 
= "5 an open mike  $2 Cover 
fl Feb. 14 & 28, March 14 
f 2 Albright UMC in Shadvside 
 S Corner of Centre & S. Graham
Mellon College of Science
Graduate Student Teaching Award 1997
The departments of Biological Sciences, Chemistry, Mathematical Sciences, and Physics are in 
the process of preparing nominations for the MCS Graduate Student Teaching Award. The 
purpose of this award is to encourage and recognize effective teaching by graduate students. 
Each department will nominate one finalist for the award and a University-wide committee 
appointed by Dean Susan Henry will select a winner from the list of finalists. Input from 
undergraduate students will play a very important role in the selection process. If you have 
been taught by a graduate student from MCS in a laboratory, recitation, summer course, etc. 
and you feel that he or she should be nominated for the Teaching Award, please contact the 
relevant department as soon as possible (but no later than February 28); contacts for each 
department are listed below. As part of the nomination process, each department will be solic
iting letters from undergraduates who have been taught by graduate students. If you receive a 
request for a letter, please respond! Letters from undergraduate students are. one of the major 
factors in the decision process. Please participate!
To suggest a nominee, please contact one of the people listed below:
Biological Sciences: Ed Weisberg, MI 416, weisberg@andrew.cmu.edu 
.Chemistry: Charles Vandyke, DH 2114, cv07@andrew.cmu.edu 
Mathematical Sciences: Russ Walker, WeH 6117, rwlk@andrew.cmu.edu 
Physics: Dick Edelstein, WeH 7305, re08@andrew.cmu.edu

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Carnegie Mellon University17 February 1997
Wi? Bn,lcm ikInez 
lIIlcrbeuruim nr soG
The H&SS College Council 
added three new majors to the 
gurriculum this semesterJapa
nese, human and computer Inter
action (HCI), and environmental 
policy. Both HCI and environmen
tal policy will be offered as univgrsity-wide double majors while 
Japanese will be offered as an 
H&SS major in modern lan
guages.
 The addition of the majors, en
vironmental policy in particular, 
Vvas a direct response to student 
requests for undergraduate pro
grams that offer backgrounds in 
marketable areas.
'As a major, Japanese will ex
pand the modern languages pro
gram at CMU; students who take 
part in this major will take lan
guage classes as well as history 
and cultural studies classes. 
While language programs are 
other universities are on a de
cline, it allows for CMU students 
to make themselves more valu
able in the global marketplace.
All three majors offer skills ap
plicable towards potential careers 
^ rather than a concentration of 
one particular area of study or 
iglents, students will be able to 
ap'ply a variety of skills that cater 
to what current employers are 
looking for today.
 .Students that participate in the 
HCI program will be required to 
take classes from H&SS, CFA and 
the School of Computer Science. 
By offering a computer-based pro
gram in H&SS, liberal arts stu
dents can now gain a technical 
background in addition to their 
primary majors.
In a university where lack of 
interaction between colleges is a 
common complaint, these majors 
indicate a step towards integra
tion by creating a structured in
terdisciplinary program. As a 
university acclaimed in both the 
arts and computer science, stu
dents in HCI will be able to make 
the most of what CMU has to 
offer.
The Bachelors of Humanities 
and Arts has tried to bridge that 
same gap, but failed initially to 
provide proper advisors for its 
students. In order to avoid such 
problems colleges that will offer 
classes for HCI and environmen
tal policy must keep clear lines of 
communication  each college 
should know what classes will be 
offered by other colleges and what 
requirements those classes will 
fill.
The implementation of new un
dergraduate programs will inevi
tably increase the academic po
tential of students across the uni
versity, especially by giving stu
dents the opportunity to become 
familiar with other colleges. By 
offering two university-wide 
double majors, students will be 
able to use new areas of study to 
broaden their primary programs. 
H&SS should be commended for 
listening to students opinion and 
expanding their undergraduate 
experience.
sv mUlbfz elr zifnq 
0inbk crm 0nff
Beaux Arts Ball is the College of 
Fine Arts grandiose party, which 
occurs in February every two 
years. Students take a night to 
experience live bands, art and a 
side of CFA that is usually not 
accessible to the entire univer: sity. This year CFAhas postponed 
the event until April, one week 
after Spring Carnival festivities.
;In the past students have 
I awaited Beaux Arts Ball to break 
; up the monotony of winter; a few
- weeks before mid-semester exams 
; and a seemingly endless spanse 
! before Spring Break, Beaux Arts 
; gives students a university-spon! B^red event to relax and relieve 
; the tension from school work.
\ 1 While students can always find 
; time on their own to get away 
! from the pressures of school,
; Beaux Arts would allow students 
j ^eross colleges to breathe collec; tjiyely and come together to celI !i>rate the event. Professors usu\ ally take such events into consid! eration when assigning work to 
; allow students enjoy themselves 
! without worrying about an over| lqad to spill into the next week.
By rescheduling Beaux Arts for 
| the week after Carnival, CFA 
: must deal with the ramifications 
: of planning in the shadow of the 
: biggest school-wide event that
 takes place in the spring. Stu
dents plan their semester p.round 
i Carnival  they make sure they
1 Gan spend the entire weekend 
having fan work-free.
Nell Babra/Tartan Junior Staff
Letters to the Editor
Editor:0E3
This usually means that the next 
weekend will be a time to catch
up. As it is near the end of the 
semester, professors have sched
uled exams and planned for 
projects to be due at this time. 
Students will be dealing with the 
aftermath of Carnival and the 
likelihood of a high attendance at 
Beaux Arts will be slim.
Many bands that usually per
form at both events will probably 
choose only one because of the 
proximity of dates  Beaux Arts 
will lose entertainers since many 
will opt to perform the weekend 
before.
Beaux Arts Ball will be also be 
meshed in with a number of events 
that usually occur at the end of 
semester, such as the Fiesta de 
Primavera.
In light of the inopportune tim
ing, CFA should make sure that 
publicity is more than sufficient 
especially in the two remaining 
months before the event. The 
planning committee should have 
taken into account the long exist
ing Carnival dates when schedul
ing Beaux Arts Ball.
As one of the largest creative 
outlets on that the University has 
to offer, with live bands, entire 
rooms turned in to works of art 
and a chance to experience a slice 
of what CFA has to offer the uni
versity, Beaux Arts Ball should 
not be brushed onto the sidelines 
but advertised and planned as a 
huge asset to CMU.
One would hope Unlrentty Center 314
that a PhD candidate . ' .
for materials science LC lier^ IU
engineeringwouldbe tll6 EditOT 
empirical in method 
and thus have some regard for evidence, 
precision, and factual presentation. This 
is obviously not the case with our friend 
Mr. Stepanek. In an article written last 
week for the editorial section of the Tar
tan, he presents us with a discourse 
which misrepresents facts, and then pro
ceeds to build on these misrepresenta
tions a self-contradicting argument.
Not one but all of the premises of the 
article can be deconstructed to show 
either fallacious reasoning or assertions 
that are simply untrue. Indeed, if we 
accept the false dualism Ignorance is 
Strength, then this article is herculean.
The article proceeds to make the cor
relation between the prime examples of 
doublespeak and the agenda of the Left. 
One example we are confronted with is 
that the introduction of Ebonics is an 
example of ignorance under the guise of 
strength. Ebonics is not to be taught to j 
students but to teachers in districts 
which have a large percentage of Afri
can-American students. It is not clear in 
what way Mr. Stepanek declares this to 
be ignorance, but we can easily see 
how it may be indicative of his.
Mr. Stepanek defines a liberal for us
 people mostly concerned with free
dom and individual liberty  and then 
we are told that because the Left sup
ports such goals as the abolititon of
private property, they must have no 
concern for individual liberty. While I 
dont have the time to explain to Mr. 
Stepanek the theory which shows that 
private property in many ways leads to 
infringement on human rights and free
dom, I can say that this article has a 
systematic tendency towards 
misidentification and the illogical.
Let us examine the point about Mr. 
Orwell deploring the Left. This state
ment is completely inaccurate. Mr. 
Orwell criticicized the Russophile intel
ligentsia and apologists for Stalin. At no 
point did he renounce his political stance 
as a Democratic Socialist. This can hardly 
be someone who deplores the Left.
Why do we have to attack the Left 
when we have perfectly good examples 
of manipulation of language and his
tory in everyday thought like that of 
Mr. Stepaneks?
Richard Parker 
Freshman
University Choice Program 
Editor:
I have never been a 
proponent of Greek 
life. I admit my bias.
Friends and co-work- Lttr tO 
ers have heard my f|l6 EditOT 
negative  Im sure 
even slanderous  comments over the 
years, but I have never felt the need to 
say anything this publicly about the 
Greek system until now.
Recently I have seen signs for Kappa 
Delta Rho that say the un-frat, and
= B0SE
Utter to tho Efltor 
Univ. nit j Center 314
just last night I heard a sister in Zeta 
Psi Sigma say that they were the un
sorority. When I asked her what that 
meant, she replied to the effect of well, 
its just like we dont have those nega
tive things that sororities are associ
ated with. Were not fake.
Distance, separation. Thats the kicker 
for me with this whole un-frat, un
sorority thing. Two houses (I am as
suming that the Zeta sister spoke for 
her house) have decided not to strive 
to improve the image of Greek life, but 
to distance themselves from an image 
which houses used to always go to the 
mat to deny.
I dont know how many times Ive 
heard sisters and brothers defend 
Greek life, putting its positive aspects 
practically as high as missionary work. 
But now, something about this rush 
season has caused two houses to fold, 
maybe even admit defeat. By distanc
ing themselves with the simple prefix 
un, they have said that there is a 
problem with Greek life.
They are saying that fraternities 
and sororities by definition are bad 
and that to be good you have to be 
the un.
The posters are down. The slogans 
are no longer uttered. I know rush 
has ended, but I hope this letter has 
caused all of the houses to think 
about next year.
Marshall Warfield
Junior
EnglishBlack History Month segregates
^_________Joshua Walstrom
February brings, along with remem
brances of St. Valentine, a month-long 
celebration of black history. Now past 
its 20th anniversary, Black History 
Month has become an ingrained part of
the American calen- _______________
dar, yet few people 
question the relevance 
of having such a cel
ebration, one that al
most tacitly requires 
universal observance.
Unfortunately, Black 
History Month does 
more to foster racial 
divisions in American 
society than bring about our mutual 
understanding.
There is no denying that the celebra
tion is founded upon noble intentions. At 
the turn of the century, Carter G. 
Woodson, the late black historian, envi
sioned a Negro History Week to high
light the contributions of black Ameri
cans, giving blacks a source of cultural 
pride and a defense against those who 
claimed they were either inferior or in
significant. The week was later expanded 
to a month in the 70s, when the newlydeemed Black History Month was seen 
as a favorable outcome of the civil rights 
movement. Yet even the best of inten
tions are often misplaced. In truth, the 
celebration, for all its motives, is anti
thetical to the very core of Dr. Kings 
vision. His dream was of a color blind 
society, where an individual was seen as
a person and not generalized to a race. 
African Americans were no different, no 
less deserving of respect than Cauca
sians.
Emphasis was placed on our similari
ties instead of our differences. King 
talked about a brotherhood of man, and 
by that he did not mean a loose collection 
of peoples, each wrapped up in their 
separate histories, but a single people 
united in their common one.
And where are we now? The current
King talked about a brotherhood of man, 
and by that he did not mean a loose col
lection of peoples ... but a single people 
united in their common one. 
approach to race relations seems to em
phasize differences over similarities, and 
the initial conviction that race is not 
important has given way to the belief 
that, if anything, it is the main determi
nant of a personthe color of ones skin 
defines the content of his character.
This is where we err in celebrating 
Black History Month  because it im
plies that we are fundamentally differ
ent people and that no amount of effort 
or reconciliation can merge our divided 
histories. It sends a message that black 
history is something all too distinct from 
the larger version of American history. 
Certainly, there is nothing wrong with 
celebrating the accomplishments of African-American men and women, but to 
do so solely because of their race is an 
insult to them and their achievements. 
Disenfranchising them from the whole
of American history, it relegates them to 
some side show of the past, which is 
worse than forgetting them altogether. 
Few would argue that Martin Luther 
Kings greatness was a primary function 
of the his skins color, yet every Febru
ary a subconscious statement is made 
exactly to that effect. Every February 
people give lip service to the vague no
tions of a color blind society, and society 
contents itself that, at a minimum, the 
appearance of racial progress is main
tained. Ironically, Black 
History Month receives 
considerable popular 
and political support, 
embraced by whites just 
as well as blacks. Yet 30 
years after the heyday 
of the civil rights move_____________ ment and 20 years after
the start of Black His
tory Month, American 
society is just as racially tense, perhaps 
resulting from so many years of sweep
ing issues under the carpet instead of 
dealing with them. In the end, it boils 
down to how we insist on defining our
selves. To define who you are primarily 
in terms of black or white, male or fe
male, straight or gay, argues for a sadly 
deterministic view of the universe - 
sad that who you are should be so largely 
defined before you were even born. Thus, 
Black History Month, though well mean
ing, is ill conceived, for it reduces people 
to a particular color of the rainbow and 
their actions to a mere footnote in the 
annals of time. If you are going to study 
history, let it be human history.
Joshua Walstrom is a freshman in 
CIT. He welcomes any responsible re
plies to his column.

---------------------------------------------------

MUi Mncrne a snceitui oiffle Geuyicmurq a xR vipcbncq xggRR
Writers debate tax plan for college students
Plan provides for affordable education Tax proposal functions on flawed scale
Rebecca Fribush
We all know college isnt cheap. In the 
last couple of years, the price of a few 
years at a college or university has not 
only risen through the ceiling but burst 
through the roof, and if it doesnt stop 
soon, it will end up as an obstacle for lowflying airplanes and helicopters.
As rising costs make it difficult for 
people to afford college, the realities of 
the employment world are making 
higher education more necessary. Most 
skilled jobs used to require only a high 
school diploma, but now would-be em
ployees need a two-year or four-year 
degree for similar positions.
Neither the trend towards spiraling 
college costs nor the trend towards in
creased educational requirements is 
likely to be reversed at any time in the 
near future. Not only that, but sinceour economy is just going to keep get
ting more technologically based, an 
ever-larger percentage of jobs are going 
to require technological skills  the 
kind you dont learn in high school.
Check any employment page now and 
notice how many of the jobs require 
technical know-how.
Apian to make higher education more 
affordable would curb these problems. 
On the individual level, such a plan 
would give disadvantaged young people 
a way out of poverty and reduce the 
strain on middle-class families.
On a larger economic scale, it would 
help by training more people to fill the 
jobs most essential to society.
President Clintons proposal to take 
a version of Georgias HOPE (Helping 
Outstanding Pupils Educationally) 
scholarships nationwide is just such a 
plan. Under Clintons plan, students 
enrolled in universities, colleges, or com
munity colleges choose between a $ 1,500 
tax refund and a $10,000 federal in
come tax deduction each year. These 
sums are no coincidence  they yield 
just enough money for a years tuition 
at a community college. So this tax 
credit is poised to make post-high-school
education a reality for anyone.
The tax credits only kick in for stu
dents who pull B averages or above  
hows that for an incentive to study?
Yet the tax deductions dont require a 
minimum grade, to ensure that stu
dents who have more difficulty adjust
ing to higher education arent penal
ized.
Clintons HOPE scholarships are a 
scaled-down version of la; Georgia pro
gram with a proven tra<ik record.
The Georgia prograit differ^ from 
Clintons only in that it offers full fourT I I I ' I I 1 I I
ra-U 1
Douglas Beeferman
Elitism is a sorely underappreciated 
virtue among college students. The Re
publican attack on Clintons plan to pro
vide financial incentives to attend college 
has struck many as elitist. The fact is 
that opponents of the plan arent both
ered by the very worthy goal of providing
i i I [tr ri ^ i i 1 i 
il r i 1
year tuition at any state school. Initi
ated in 1993, it has already enabled 
about 239,000 students to go on to higher 
education. While it would be great if 
Clinton could pay for four years of col
lege for anyone who needs it, the smaller 
size of the benefits will ensure a more 
important goal  that those benefits 
reach as many people as possible.
The proposed nationwide HOPE 
scholarships are an idea whose time 
has come. If enacted, theyll change 
both individual lives and the economy 
as a whole fori the better.
Becca Fribush is a freshman history 
major. She welcomes any responsible 
replies to her column.
Lee-Ann Stossell/Tartan Junior Art Staff
assistance to excellent high school stu
dents who cannot afford college. Prob
lematic is the arbitrarinessi of who is 
considered deserving.
Its not clear why it is good, much less 
necessary, that more high school gradu
ates attend college. There are already too 
many of us, frankly. In a cycle commonly 
called grade inflation, many of our 
nations universities have been lowering 
standards to accommodate increasing 
demand and then lowering the level of 
academic achievement deemed accept
able for these admittees to receive good 
grades. The value of a college education 
has diminished to the extent that even a 
degree from CMU is no guarantee of ajob. 
Nor is it necessary for every person to
attend college in order to compete in 
todays market. Vocational schools offer 
an excellent alternative.
Instead, the goal of any plan offering 
financial incentives to attend college 
should be to ensure that students with 
academic potential are not denied ad
vanced education because they cannot 
afford it. Financial aid should be a func
tion of need and merit, not applied indis
criminately. Clintons plan enforces 
laughable minimum criteria along these 
axes. It states that taxpayers with a joint 
income exceeding $100,000 are ineligible, 
ruling out only the wealthy.
Furthermore it warns that students 
will be asked to maintain a B average in 
order to continue to receive benefits dur
ing the second year. Grade inflation has 
made this far too easy to accomplish at 
most universities, but the real problems 
here fall under the conflict of interest 
category. Not only is letter grade a suc
cess measure that varies in application 
I and interpretation from one university to 
the next, it is also vulnerable to manipu
lation. What is to prevent small, histori
cally unpopular schools from using the 
promise of good grades to entice stu
dents? What is to prevent small and large 
schools alike from inflating grades fur
ther in order to keep their paying custom
ers paying?
It should not be assumed that private 
institutions can be trusted not to stoop to 
these tricks, since it is well known that 
many already tweak their numbers in 
order to achieve a high ranking in U.S. 
News and World Report's college guide. 
Monitoring a students progress would 
therefore require implementing a new 
achievement test with national scope.
In the absence of such a test, a logistical 
nightmare would arise with the plans 
implementation. Should the IRS be moni
toring student grades? Would grade re
porting across the country require stan
dardization? If community colleges and 
four-year schools are part of the plan, 
why not other kinds of schools too?
Even if it were desirable to increase 
college enrollment, how practical would 
it be to do it like this?
Douglas Beeferman is a PhD candidate 
in computer science. He welcomes any 
responsible replies to his column.
slfbBeumr Duezm mrbzierm Unyi Dcii ruBi le 'nBIbm
VyTy Mai
This university likes to adver
tise the fact that a majority of the 
student body is made up of very 
active, very busy individuals. And 
this is true to an extent. We are 
all busy with our classes and our 
homework and trying to keep our 
heads above the water.
We make a mad dash to classes 
and realize that its all a mara
thon with a couple thousand other 
contenders making mad dashes 
to their own classes. And once we 
get to class, its an internal 
struggle (that will inevitably go 
downhill), to resist the Force of 
Exhaustive Sleep.
After all this, who has time for 
anything else? Yet for some rea
son, we do. First and foremost,
winter? Well, obviously, hes try
ing to recreate his Kiltie Band 
experience by proving that cryo
genics really do work. Theres al
ways a meeting to go to or a play 
to be in or another meeting to go 
to or some game to win this weekwe have jobs. Jobs that we love.
Jobs that we hate. Jobs that we 
really couldnt care less about.
And jobs that we really dont want 
to ever do. But we havejobs. They 
take up a chunk of our excess 
time and employ us in a veritable 
cesspool of mind
less, stressless, 
carefree activities.
Despite the 
mundanity of our 
jobs, we must ad
mit that, here at,
CMU, they canj _____________________________________________
sometimes be our Nwnm
sanity-saver. end. The list goes on. And ineviThen there are the activities, tably, homework gets neglected. 
Its a proven fact that CMU stu- And once again, who has time for 
dents , over-extend themselves, anything else?
Its very scary how much time 
we have ... lamenting about how 
we really should start our home
work now. But do we? No. 
See that guy sleeping in the cor
ner? He was with A Phi O yester
day. See that girl with the blue 
hands? She was painting the 
Fence last night. See that guy
But, we do. Its very scary how 
much time we have. We have 
those hours here and there that 
drift by without us even noticing. 
Those hours of dallying, of lookwearing shorts in the dead of ing at our watches and sighing
and lamenting about how we re
ally should start our homework 
now. But do we? No. We just sit 
and sigh and dally some more. 
This is called wasting time. Yes, 
a quite unique concept.
Now, only a majority of CMU 
students are inher
ently proactive. 
This leaves the mi
nority doing abso
lutely nothing. So 
what in the world 
are they doing with
___________ their time? Absolutely nothing. 
Nada. Zip. Zilch. That is, except 
for their precious homework. 
Keep in mind that the wonderful 
factoid above is what CMU likes 
to advertise, which can mean that 
there may be more of these anti
active people out there. Scary.
If we bring ourselves back into 
reality, then, yes, we all do our 
homework, and we all go to
classes, but we are involved in 
other commitments, too. It is at 
this state that we learn to grow. 
Hopefully, we also learn to bal
ance ourselves between our per
sonal and professional lives. What 
we experience here at CMU is 
only the stepping stone for more 
experiences to come. Sure, tun
nel vision with classes works here. 
But it wont later on. The key 
towards well-roundedness is pro
activity. Join a club, get a job, 
help the homeless. There is much 
out there that needs human in
volvement.
Everyone needs this involve
ment. We cannot lose ourselves 
in the black mire of classes with
out a speck of sunlight, a breath 
of fresh air.
Vy Ty Mai is a freshman chemi
cal engineering major. She wel
comes any responsible replies to 
her column.
A PERSONS
OPINION

With the University 
constanty striving for improve
ment, we asked students: If 
you could add a building 
or facility to the CMU cam
pus, what would it be and 
why?
Danny Riley
Freshman
ECE
A strip club/
w it m 
f * z . 
. *  
____
Luke Burkholder
Freshman
Chemistry
A real movie theater. Our 
movies arent full length, and I 
havent been impressed with the 
sound.
Ross Krepper 
Sophomore 
Computer Science
An asylum. Theres a lot of 
people here who could use one. 
Im one of them.
Anthony Chao/Tartan Photo Editor 
Makenzie Newman 
Freshman 
Biology
I think we should have a 
video store because its too far 
away to walk to the ones off 
campus and they dont have a 
selection anyway.
Compiled by: Brooke Goldner and Anthony Chao
THE TARTAN
Camoglo Mellon's Student Nowspapor 
Slnco 906
Editor-in-Chief...................Sharmlla
Venkatasubban
Managing Editor.................1-Ping Li
Business Manager.... Amit Sheth
News Editor.......................Ena Khan
Forum Co-Editors...............Jennifer
Garcia de Osuna, Alex Lewin
Sports Editor............Chris Cannon
Features Editor ..Becky A. Cowser
Diversions Editor.........Tracy Odell
Calendar Editor......Kevin AuYoung
Dossier Design Co-Editors ... Laura
........Varrachi, Paulina Berczynski
Dossier Literary Co-Editors.... Kelly
...................Bowles, Kevin Meehan
Art Editor........................Julee White
Photo Editor............Anthony Chao
Production Mgr........Kevin Babbitt
Advertising Manager... Steven Hsu 
Systems Manager.... Craig Soules
Copy Manager.........Victor Ortega
Asst. News Editor... Ellen Beldner
Asst. Features Editor......Anne Ray
Asst. Diversions Editor...........Ryan
Donovan
Asst. Production Mgr.........William
Holtz
Photo Staff Mgr. Jason Siegendorf 
Darkroom Mgr.....Diana Bartolotta
Personnel Manager... Paul Boothe
Contributing Editors 
John Biggs, Amit Kar, Kenneth 
Kraemer, Andrew McDermott, 
Jay Mlolla, Elizabeth Neuman,. 
Chintan Shah, Jim Snyder, 
Gabrien Symons
Senior Staff 
Gil Alterovitz, Jason Andracki, 
Matt Ball, Jessica Strelltz, Susan
Watson
Staffwriters 
Chris Adukaitis, Andre Archie, Ja
son Andracki, Melissa Batt, Vlneet 
Chander, Steve Charnoubl, Max 
Chlttister, Matt Cuccaro, Dave 
Elman, Sheila Flannagan, Rebecca 
Fribush, Chuck Fryman, Dan 
Goldwasser, Tom Harper, Adam 
Kllvans, Wladimir Labeikovsky, Tom 
Lin, Trevor Meyerowitz, Mikl 
Muchhala, Dizzy Murphy, Jon Orris, 
Danielle Pierrattl, Dan Rosenberg, 
JayaSaxena, Andrew Seymour, Betty 
Shea, Reena Singhal, Ronak 
Singhai, Matthew Solitro, Nathan 
Steinweld, James Stepanek, Meena 
Vagnier, Andrew Wang, Bradley 
Zimmerman
Comics
Nick Casclato, David Wingrove
Photo
Anukul Kapoor, Usette Miller-Dixon, 
Maria Gimenez, Brian Smith
Darkroom 
Ava Bal, Eva Bal, Amy Cristomo, 
Elias Fallon, Colleen Manning, Paul 
Moore
Production 
William Holtz, Diana Rutherford
Copy
Mimi Cheng, David Elman, Rebecca 
Fribush, Helena McGahagan, Megan 
Parke, Reena Singhal
Business 
Michael Averbuch, GauravDudhoria, 
Patricia DiGiuseppi, Chris Hong, 
Avinash Jain
Junior Staff 
Andre Archie, Neil Babra, Rahul 
Bhargava, Brendan Bosworth, James 
Carney, Nicholas Casclato, Vineet 
Chander, Susie Cribbs, Joy Ferguson, 
Sheila Flanagan, Rhonda Gillespie, 
Pratlsh Haladay, Eric Holowka, Will 
Isenhour, Kevin Kroen, Ken Kwalik, 
Masha Kovarsky, Lilian Lee, Carey 
Lefkowitz, Maureen McGranaghan, 
Diado Mack, Rebecca Madden, VyTy 
Mai, Tammy Manski, Greg Marcks, 
Josh Merry, Ken Namkung, JoAnna 
Phillips, Jessica Rhodes, Nla Rogers, 
Jason Scharfman, Ryan Schilling, Niel 
Shapcott, Scott Shell, Michael 
Sperger, Pragnesh Surti, Julie Wil
son, David Wingrove, Anthony Yu, 
Seldon Yuan
The Tartan is the student newspaper of Carnegie Mellon University. It is a weekly newspaper published by students during the fall and spring semesters, at no cost to members of the University community. It Is printed by Western Pennsylvania Printing, Inc. Subscriptions are available for the semester or academic year. The editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The Tartan editorial board. Columns and political cartoons are the opinions of individual creators. The Tartan reserves the right to reject or condense any column or political cartoon. Letters to the Editor are opinion's of authors who are usually, but not necessarily. members of the University community. A letter intended for publication must be signed and include the writer's address and phone number for verification. Names may be withheld upon request. The Tartan requests that letters be no longer than 500 words. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject any letter. Copyright  1996 by The Tartan. The Tartan editorial board reserves the right to withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication.Office: University Center Room 314 Phone: 412/268-2111 Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/Car- negie Mellon University/Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890Funded in part by your Activities Fee. All rights reserved.Library of Congress ISSN #:0890-3107.The Tartan is a member of the Associated Press.Ap

---------------------------------------------------

yUsnlm q xx R vnlMp boMg yitufdpu
CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY 
Final Examination Policy
Enrollment Services 
Spring 1997
COSTFU
The Faculty Senate adopted the following policies on the administration of final exami
nations for the Undergraduate courses:
1. all final exams shall be given in the final exam period;
2. the reading day and weekend preceding exams shall never be used for exam 
purposes of any kind;
3. faculty shall not exert or submit to pressure to move an exam so that people can 
leave earlier;
4. no student shall be required to take more than two exams on a given finals day; 
the registrar shall assist the student in resolving conflicts;
5. no critiques or juries shall be scheduled on the last day of classes;
6. papers shall be made due no later than on the last day of classes;
7. take-home final exams shall be given for any 24-hour period of the student's 
choosing during the final exam period;
8. any student shall be permitted to see his/her corrected, graded final exam in the 
presence of an instructor, provided the exam is not in the student's possession;
9. all final exams shall be returned to students, or be kept available to students for a 
period of not less than one year;
10. in the event that a teaching assistant is unable to fulfill part 8 or part 9, the respon
sibility shall rest with the course instructor;
11. in the event that an instructor is unable to fulfill part 8, 9, or 10, the responsibility 
shall rest with the department in which the course was offered;
12. it is assumed that instructors will return all work assigned before the final exam 
period. Thus, instructors are not responsible for retaining unclaimed coursework.
Note: Complaints about violations of the final examination policy or alterations of the 
final examination schedule should be directed to the appropriate department head.
This final examination schedule is also on the Andrew bboard system under 
"emu.thehub.announce".
FMS,SAMDa, dDneDnwl,nDvtMDa, oer iSBkHvnt leAMenntMeA
03121 MODERN BIOLOGY
03122 ORGANISMIC BOTANY
d3130 BIOLOGY OF ORGANISM
03231 BIOCHEMISTRY I
03310/510 INTRO COMPUT BIOLOGY Tues. May
03332 BIOCHEMISTRY II Mon. May
0343^738 PHYSCL BIOCHEMISTRY Tues. May
03441 MOL BIO PROKARYOTE Mon. May
Fri. May
Thurs. May 
Fri. May
Mon. May
iEnBMDa, leAennteA
05100 INTRO TO CHEMENGR
C6155 CHEMENGR MATH
05202 UNIT OPERATIONS
06304 EC0N& OPTIMIZATION
06607 PHYSCHEM COLL SURF
06616/27615 SOL-GEL CHEMISTRY
05630/19630 ATM CHE AR POL GL CH
06704 ADV HEAT MASS TRANS
06720 ADV PROC SYS ENGIN
Tues. May 
Fri. May
Mon. May 
Mon. May 
Mon. May 
Thurs. May 
Fri. May
Tues. May 
Tues. May
9
12
6
12
6
5
9
12
5 
12 
8 
9
6 
13
8:30am 11:30am 
5:30 pm 8:30 pm 
8:30am 11:30am 
8:30 am 11:30 am 
8:30 am 11:30 am 
5:30 pm 8:30 pm 
8:30 am 11:30 am 
1:00 pm 4:00 pm
5:30 pm 8:30 pm 
1:00 pm 4:00 pm 
1:00 pm 4:00 pm 
8:30am 11:30am 
5:30 pm 8:30 pm 
5:30 pm 8:30 pm 
1:00 pm 4:00 pm 
8:30 am 11:30 am 
1:00 pm 4:00 pm
DH 2210&DH 2315
DHA317
WEH 7500
DH2315
DHA317
DH1211
SH422
HHB103
DH1112 
MM Al 4 
DH1212 
MMA14 
PH125C 
DH1211 
SH220 
DH2200 
WEH 8427
iEnBwvtv
09104CHASP0RGBI0MTLMon.May58:30 am11:30 amDH1212
C01O5INTROD MODERN CHEMThurs.May81:00 pm4:00 pmDH2210
09106MODERN CHEMISTRY IITues.May61:00 pm4:00 pmDH2315
09131LABI: INTRCHMYANLTues.May138:30 am11:30 amDH1212
09144PHYSICAL CHEMISTRYTues.May131:00 pm4:00 pmHHB103
09218ORGAN CHEMISTRY IITues.May61:00 pm4:00 pmDH2210
C8245PHYCHEMACROSCPSYSMon.May55:30 pm8:30 pmDHA317
C051O/71OINTRO TO GREEN CMSTRYMon.May121:00 pm4:00 pmMl 448
xaBaAn pnDEeS,SAs uewvvvHvn
11551/751 SPEECH RECOGNITION Tues. May
11561/761 LANGUAGE & STATISTIC Fri. May
iB, oer legMtSeBneva, leAMenntMeA
6 1:00pm 4:00pm
9 1:00 pm 4:00 pm
PHA21A 
DH1211
1?100INTRO CIV &ENV ENGMon.May55:30 pm8:30 pmDH2315
12235STATICSTues.May65:30 pm8:30 pmPH125C
lg335SOIL MECHANICSMon.May55:30 pm8:30 pmPH125C
12336SOLMECHNC&MATLABFri.May91:00 pm4:00 pmWEH5403
12355FLUID MECHANICSThurs.May88:30 am11:30 amDH 1112
12605DESIGN & CONSTRUCTSTues.May68:30 am11:30 amPHA18A
1:2635STRUCTURAL ANALYSISMon.May125:30 pm8:30 pmSH224
12636GEOTECHNICAL ENGINRTues.May131:00 pm4:00 pmPHA19C
12655WATER QUALTYENGINRNMon.May51:00 pm4:00 pmPH225B
12657WTR RESOURCES ENGINGTues.May138:30 am11:30 amBH231A
12702INFRASTRUCTMGMNTFri.May95:30 pm8:30 pmPH125C
12705ADVTECHINPROJMGTMon.May51:00 pm4:00 pmPHA19C
12706PUB INVPLN PRICINGMon.May128:30 am11:30 amPH125B
12710/19710MGT PRN/PRCT ENV ENGTues.May65:30 pm8:30 pmPH226A
12722WST WTR TRDES PRACMon.May58:30 am11:30 amBH231A
12726/19726MATH MDL ENV QUA SYMon.May58:30 am11:30 amPHA22
12743EXPERT SYSTMS IN CAEMon.May58:30 am11:30 amWEH 8427
112759OPTMZTN IN MECHANICSTues.May131:00 pm4:00 pmPH225B
iSekHvntdDneDn
15120 
15129 
15200
15211
15212
15298
15299 
15312 
15347 
15381 
15385 
1^412 
15413 
1^451 
15463
15499 Sec. A 
15499 Sec.B/21450 
15499 Sec. D 
15612 
15844 
15852
cShSvMDw
16741 
16811
OBJ ORIENT PRGM BUSThurs.May81:00 pm4:00 pmSH125
PRGMG & MODN MATHMTCMon.May55:30 pm8:30 pmDH2200
DATA STRUCTURESTues.May138:30 am11:30 amWEH 7500
FUND STRUC CMP SCITues.May138:30 am11:30 amUC McConomyAud.
FUND STRC CMP SC IITues.May61:00 pm4:00 pmUC McConomyAud.
ADPGMW/MATHEMATICAMon.May125:30 pm8:30 pmWEH8427
MATH FOUNDATNS OF CSFri.May95:30 pm8:30 pmDH 2315
PROG LANG DES PROCThurs.May81:00 pm4:00 pmDH2315
INTRO TO COMPUT ARCHTues.May138:30 am11:30 amDH2210
ARTFL INT RP PR SLVFri.May91:00 pm4:00 pmSH125
COMPUTER VISIONTues.May61:00 pm4:00 pmMMA14
OPERATING SYSTEMSThurs.May85:30 pm8:30 pmMMA14&MM 103
SOFTWARE ENGINEERNGMon.May51:00 pm4:00 pmDH 1212
ALGORITHMSMon.May55:30 pm8:30 pmWEH 7500
COMPUTER GRAPHICS 2Tues.May68:30 am11:30 anWEH 5403
ADV SOFTWARE ENGINRGTues.May131:00 pm4:00 pmDH1217
COMP PROJECTIVE GE0MTues.May131:00 pm4:00 pmDH 1211
COMPUTER NETWORKSTues.May131:00 pm4:00 pmHHB131
DISTRIB SYSTEMSTues.May65:30 pm8:30 pmWEH 7500
NETWORKINGMon.May58:30 am11:30 amDH 2122
RANDOMZD ALGORITHMSMon.May51:00 pm4:00 pmWEH 8427
MECH OF MANIPULATIONFri.May95:30 pm8:30 pmSH324
MATH FUND FOR ROBOTFri.May98:30 am11:30 amSH422
18100INTRO ELEC COMP ENGRMon.May121:00 pm4:00 pmUC McConomyAud.
18113BASIC ELECTRICAL ENGMon.May128:30 am11:30 amDH1212
18220FUND OF ELECENGRMon.May121:00 pm4:00 pm.DH 2210
18240FUND OF COMPUT ENGRFri.May91:00 pm4:00 pmDH 2210 & DH 2315
18303ENGRELECTROMAGIMon.May55:30 pm8:30 pmDH1212
18311SEMICOND DEVICES 1Tues.May138:30 am11:30 amSH125
18316INDATASTORSYSTCHTues.May68:30 amU:30amHHB103
18321ANAVDES ANALOG CIRCTues.May65:30 pm8:30 pmPH 100
18345INTR TELECOM NETWRKSMon.May58:30 am11:30 amHHB131
18349INTRO EMBEDDED SYSMon.May121:00 pm4:00 pmSH206
18360INT COMP-AID DIG DESMon.May125:30 pm8:30 pmHHB103
183%SIGNALS AND SYSTEMSMon.May121:00 pm4:00 pmWEH 7500
18439SPECIAL TOPICS EEFri.May95:30 pm8:30 pmPHA19D
18474CMPT CTR SYS DES LABTues.May131:00 pm4:00 pmSH422
18482/19402/19712TELECOM POLICYMon.May55:30 pm8:30 pmSH125
18547SUPERSCALAR PROC DESFri.May98:30 am11:30 amPH 100
18551DGCM&SIG PRSYDEThurs.May85:30 pm8:30 pmSH125
18716ADV APPL MAGNETISMMon.May51:00 pm4:00 pmWEH 6423
18792DGTL SIGNAL PROC 11Mon.May121:00 pm4:00 pmSH224
18809SP TOP ELECTROMGNTCSFri.May91:00 pm4:00 pmSH422
leAMenntMeA oer IHhHD IS,MDs
19101INTRO ENGR & PUB POLMon.May121:00 pm4:00 pmWEH 5403
19402/19712/18482TELECOM P0UCYMon.May55:30 pm8:30 pmSH 125
19446QUANTATIVE RISK ANALMon.May55:30 pm8:30 pmPH231B
19630/06630AT CMY AIR POL GL CHFri.May91:00 pm4:00 pmSH 220
19710/12710MGT PRN/PRCT ENV ENGTues.May65:30 pm8:30 pmPH226A
19712/19402^18482TELECOM POUCYMon.May55:30 pm8:30 pmSH 125
1972^/12726MATH MODL ENV SYSTEMMon.May58:30 am11:30 amPHA22
PavEnBavMDw
21105PRE-CALCULUSMon.May125:30 pm8:30 pmWEH 6423
21111CALCULUS 1Tues.May131:00 pm4:00 pmDH 1112
21112CALCULUS IIMon.May125:30 pm8:30 pmPH 100
21121CALCULUS 1Mon.May51:00 pm4:00 pmDH 2315
21122CALCULUS 2Mon.May58:30 am11:30 amUC McConomyAud.
21127INTRO TO MDRN MATHMon.May128:30 am11:30 amUC McConomyAud.
21132ANALYSIS IITues.May65:30 pm8:30 pmWEH 5403
21228DISCRETE MATHFri.May95:30 pm8:30 pmDH 1212
21241MATRIX ALGEBRATues.May65:30 pm8:30 pmDH 2210
21256MULTI ANLYSIS APPROXFri.May95:30 pm8:30 pmUC McConomyAud.
21257MODL METH OPTIMIZATNMon.May121:00 pm4:00 pmDH 2315
21259CALCULUS IN 3-DMon.May51:00 pm4:00 pmUC McConomyAud.
21260DIFFRENTL EQUATIONSTues.May131:00 pm4:00 pmUC McConomyAud.
21292OPERATIONS RSCHIFri.May91:00 pm4:00 pmWEH 7500
21341LINEAR ALGEBRATues.May65:30 pm8:30 pmSH 212
21342LINEAR ALGEBRA IITues.May61:00 pm4:00 pmWEH 8427
21355ADVANCED CALCULUS 1Mon.May125:30 pm8:30 pmWEH 5403
21356ADVANCED CALCULUS IIMon.May125:30 pm8:30 pmSH 422
21369NUMERICAL METHODSFri.May98:30 am11:30 amHHB103
21370INTO MATH FINANCEMon.May128:30 am11:30 amWEH 5403
21372PART DIFF EQUATIONSMon.May58:30 am11:30 amPH226A
21373ALGEBRAIC STRUCTURESThurs.May88:30 am11:30 amWEH 7500
21374FIELD THEORYThurs.May8- 1:00 pm4:00 pmDH 1217
21380INTRO MATH MODELINGThurs.May81:00 pm4:00 pmDH 1211
21441NUMBER THEORYMon.May51:00 pm4:00 pmWEH 5403
21450/15499 Sec. BCOMP PROJECTIVE GEOMTues.May131:00 pm4:00 pmDH 1211
21484GRAPH THEORYFri.May95:30 pm8:30 pmWEH 5403
21602INTO TO SET THEORYMon.May55:30 pm8:30 pmWEH6423
21610ALGEBRA 1Mon.May58:30 am11:30 amWEH 6423
PnDEaeMDa, leAennteA
24101FUND OF MECH ENGRMon.May55:30 pm8:30 pmPH 100
24203STRESS ANALYSISThurs.May88:30 am11:30 amSH125
24231FLUID MECHANICSMon.May121:00 pm4:00 pmSH 125
24233HEATTRANSFERTues.May138:30 am11:30 amHH Bl 03
24251ENGR ANALYSISThurs.May81:00 pm4:00 pmSH 224
24382SPTPCSTHERMAL ENGMon.May55:30 pm8:30 pmSH 220
PavntMa,w dDneDnw oer leAMenntMeA
27100MATERIALS IN ENGRMon.May121:00 pm4:00 pmMMA14&MM 103
27215THERMODYNOFMATLSThurs.May88:30 am11:30 amWEH 6423
27412PHAS TRANSFORMATIONSFri.May98:30 am11:30 amBH231B
27442DEFORMATION PROCESNGTues.May61:00 pm4:00 pmPHA19C
27533PRN GRTH PROC SEMCONFri.May91:00 pm4:00 pmDHA317
27592/792SOLIDIFICATION PROCMon.May55:30 pm8:30 pmWEH8427
2761^06616SOL-GEL CHEMISTRYThurs.May85:30 pm8:30 pmDH 1211
27763ELECTRON OPTICSMon.May121:00 pm4:00 pmWEH6423
27767SOLID SURFACESTues.May65:30 pm8:30 pmWEH 8427
27770ELECTRON MAG OP PROPTues.May65:30 pm8:30 pmWEH 6423
27782PHASE TRNS SOLIDS 1Thurs.May85:30 pm8:30 pmWEH 6423

---------------------------------------------------

IEswMDw
33105PHYSICS ENGR STUD 1Fri.May98:30 am :11:30amUC McConomyAud.33107PHYSICS ENGR STUD IIThurs.May81:00 pm4:00 pmUCMcConomyAud.
33111PHYSICS SCI STUD 1Fri.May91:00 pm4:00 pmHH B103&HH B131
33112INTRO ELECMGNETISMMon.May125:30 pm8:30 pmDH 2210&DH2315
33114PHYS MUSICAL SOUNDMon.May125:30 pm8:30 pmWEH 7500
33124INTRO TO ASTRONOMYFri.May91:00 pm4:00 pmDH1112
33211PHYS III: MODESSENTThurs.May85:30 pm8:30 pmWEH 5403
33234QUANTUM PHYSICS 1Fri.May95:30 pm8:30 pmDH 1112
33332PHYSCL MECHANICS IIThurs.May88:30 am11:30 amWEH 8427
33338INTRM ELEC & MAG 1Mon.May55:30 pm8:30 pmPHA21
33444INTRO NUC& PART PHYFri. .May98:30 am11:30amWEH 7316
33446ADV QUANTUM PHYSICSFri.May91:00 pm4:00 pmWEH 642333650GENERAL RELATIVITYMon.May128:30 am11:30 amWEH 6423
33756QUANTM MECHANICS IIThurs.May81:00 pm4:00 pmWEH 6423
33762CLASSCL ELCTRODYNIITues.May138:30 am11:30 amWEH 8427
33765STAT1STCL MECHANICSTues.May61:00 pm4:00 pmWEH 6423
33780NUCLR PARTCL PHY IIMon.May58:30 am11:30amWEH 7316
dvavMwvMDw
36201 Lee. 1STATISTICAL REASONGFri.May91:00 pm4:00 pmUC McConomyAud.
36201 Lee. 2STATISTICAL REASONGFri.May91:00 pm4:00 pmBH136A
36202INTRO STAT METHODSMon.May55:30 pm8:30 pmUC McConomyAud.
36208^70208REGRESSION ANALYSISMon.May58:30 am11:30 amPH 100
36217PROB THEO RNDMPROCMon.May58:30 am11:30 amDH 2210
36220ENGR STAT QUAL CTRLMon.May51:00 pm4:00 pmMM 103
36226INTRO PRB & STAT IIMon.May.58:30 am11:30 amWEH 7500
36247STAT FOR LAB SCIENCEFri.May91:00 pm4:00 pmHUNT NEAR & FAR
36410INTRO PROB MODELINGMon.May55:30 pm8:30 pmPH226B
FMSBnrMDa, leAMenntMeA
42100 BIOMEDENGR SEMINARFri.May95:30 pm8:30 pmDH 2210
'42501/736PHYSIOLOGYMon.May68:30 am11:30 amBH355
42652/752MUSCULOSKEL BIOMECHMon.May58:30 am11:30 amDH 1209
42680/780INST ACQ PRO BIO SIGThurs.May81:00 pm4i00pmPHA19C
otDEMvnDvHtn
48215MATERIALS & ASSEMBLYMon.May55:30 pm8:30 pmDH 1112
48315ENVIRI: CUM & ENGMon.May58:30 am11:30 amMM 103
48345ARC HST3: CRITISCMMon.May51:00 pm4:00 pmBH235B
48440AMER BUL ENV1850-PRTues.May65:30 pm8:30 pmPH125B
48740STRATEGIC USE OF CADThurs.May81:00 pm4:00 pmPhj 125B
fnwMAe
51272DESIGN HISTORYTues.May61:00 pm4:00 pmMM 103
ftaBa
5478686/986COLLOQUIUMTues.May65:30 pm8:30 pmBH235A
Music
57152 Sec.AHARMONY 1Mon.May121:00 pm4:00 pmCFA 160
57152 Sec. BHARMONY 1Mon.May121:00 pm4:00 pmCFA 157
57153HARMONY IIFri.May98:30 am11:30 amCFA 160
57154 Sec.A18TH CENTY CONTPARTMon.May55:30 pm8:30 pmCFA 160
57154 Sec. B18TH CENTY CONTPARTMon.May55:30 pm8:30 pmCFA 157
57241ACTING IIFri.May95:30 pm8:30 pmMM 119
5725820TH CENTTECHNQUESFri.May91:00 pm4:00 pmMM 116
57265/765FUGUETues.May131:00 pm4:00 pmMM 116
57331/831PRNCPLS OF EDUCATIONThurs.May8. 5:30 pm8:30 pmCFA157
57335/935ANALYSIS SEMINARTues.May13l:OOpm4:00 pmCF160
5733fy888INSWCHOR CONDUCTFri.May98:30 am11:30 amCFA 157
57362/862WOODWIND METHODSMon.May95:30 pm8:30 pmCFA 157
57363/863STRING METHODSThurs.May88:30 am11:30 amCFA 160
57375/875MUSIC ELEM SCHOOLSMon.May51:00 pm4:00 pmCFA 157
5744444WAGNERTues.May55:30 pm8:30 pmCFA 157
57458JAZZ HISTORY IIThurs.May85:30 pm8:30 pmCFA 160
otv
60370/79324HIST MODERN PAINTINGTues.May5.8:30 am11:30 amPHA22
LUddueMntrMwDMkMyeats
66210 SCI TECH &ENVIRONMTThurs.May81:00 pm4:00 pmMM 103
uerHwvtMa, PaeaAnBnev
70100 INTRO TO BUSINESSTues.May131:00 pm4:00 pmWEH 7500
70122INTRO TO ACCOUNTINGThurs.May81:00 pm4:00 pmWEH 7500
70161INTRO GRACMNCTNSIITues.May138:30 am11:30 amSH 422
0194PUBLISH IN INFO AGEThurs.May88:30 am11:30 amDU 1209
70308/36208REGRESSION ANALYSISMon.May58:30 am11:30 amPH 100
70251/73250MANAGERIAL ECONThurs.May85:30 pm8:30 pmPH100&BH136A0311ORGNZTN BEHAVIORTues.May65:30 pm8:30 pmUCMcConomyAud.
70315HUMAN RESOURCE MNGMT Thurs.May81:00 pm4:00 pmBH235B
70332BUSINESS & SOCIETYTues.May68:30 am11:30 amPH 100
0361FOUNDATIONS OF LAWTues.May61:00 pm4:00 pmHHB1030363LAW MDRN AMER SOCTues.May138:30 am11:30 amPH125C
0367/88367COMPTRS IN ORGANIZTNTues.May68:30 am11:30 amPH125C
0369MERGERS & ACQUISITNTues.May61:00 pm4:00 pmDH22000371PRODUCTION 1Mon.May58:30 am11:30 amDH231570381MARKETING 1Thurs.May88:30 am11:30 amPH 10070430INTERNATNL MGMNTTues.May131:00 pm4:00 pmMMA1470451MGMNTINFORMATN SYSFri.May95:30 pm8:30 pmPH 100
70453SYSTEMS ANAL &DESGNFri.May91:00 pm4:00 pmPHA18A
70456TELECOM &NTWRKMGMTFri.May98:30 am11:30 amPHA18A70471PRODUCTION IITues.May61:00 pm4:00 pmBH231A
70)81MARKETING RESEARCH 1Thurs.May88:30 am11:30 amMM 103
W84DIRECT MARKETINGFri.May98:30 am11:30 amBH355
M92INVESTMENT ANALYSISThurs.May81:00 pm4:00 pmMMA14
0495CORPORATE FINANCEMon.May121:00 pm4:00 pmHHB1310641COLOR REPRODUCTIONFri.May91:00 pm4:00 pmDH 1217
lDSeSBMDw
;73100PRINC OF ECONOMICSTues.May68:30 am11:30 amUC McConomyAud.
&50/70251INTERMED MICROECONThurs.May85:30 pm8:30 pmPH 100&BH 136A
173260ECONOMETRICS 1Thurs.May88:30 am11:30 amMMA1473300INTERMED MACRECONMon.May125:30 pm8:30 pmUC McConomyAud.73346GAMES, ECON AND MGMT" Mon.May128:30 am11:30 amPH11123351PUBUC FINANCEThurs.May85:30 pm8:30 pmPHA18C3358ECOENVRNNATURRESFri.May95:30 pm8:30 pmMM 10373360ECONOMETRICS IIMon.May55:30 pm8:30 pmMMA143365INDUSTRL ORGANIZATNMon.May51:00 pm4:00 pmDH 1112
'73458MONEY AND BANKINGTues.May138:30 am11:30 amDHA3173176AMER ECONOMIC HSTRYTues.May61:00 pm4:00 pmHHB131
leA,MwE
76227COMEDYTues.May65:30 pm8:30 pmMM 103
7623120TH CENTURY LITERTRMon.May58:30 am11:30 amPHA18A
76273WRITING MULTI MEDIAMon.May121:00 pm4:00 pmPHA20A
76294LIT/CULT STUD COREMon.May128:30 am11:30 amPH125C
76321DOCUMENTING VISUALMon.May51:00 pm4:00 pmPH Al 9
76322RDG BUILT LANDSCAPETues.May138:30 am11:30 amPHA19C
7633217 CE LI CU ST SH TRThurs.May88:30 am11:30 amBH235B
7633619THCENTRYLCSV1CTThurs.May81:00 pm4:00 pmPH225B
76341SOCIAL DARWINThurs.May81:00 pm4:00 pmPH226A
76343RUSSIAN UT & CULTTues.May68:30 am11:30 amBH255A76347AMER LIT 1865-1917Mon.May121:00 pm4:00 pmCFA 110
76354CONTMPYLITCULTHRYTues.May65:30 pm8:30 pmBH231B76364READING POEMSMon.May55:30 pm8:30 pmBH255A
76365BEGINING POETRY WKSPThurs.May88:30 am11:30 amPH Al 9
76373ARG INFO NARATVARGTues.May138:30 am11:30 amBH35576390/790STYLEFri.May95:30 pm8:30 pmBH235A
76434/834JOYCETues.May138:30 am11:30 amBH235B
76475/876RHETORIC OF SCIENCEFri.May98:30 am11:30 amPH225B
76479/879CORP MARKTNG & COMMMon.May121:00 pm4:00 pmBH235B
76784ARCH OF PARAGRAPHTues.May138:30 am11:30 amPH226A
76888CNTMP THEO INVENTIONTues.May65:30 pm8:30 pmPH225B
LMwvSts
79104WORLD HISTORYThurs.May88:30 am11:30 amDH 2210&DH 2315
79110DYNAMICS CULTRLCHNGMon.May51:00 pm4:00 pmPH 100
79204TWENTIETH CENTY AMERMon.May51:00 pm4:00 pmPH125C
79222RELGN AMERICAN SOCMon.May121:00 pm4:00 pmHHB103
79255IRISH HISTORYMon.May58:30 am11:30 amWEH 5403
79257HISTY GREECE & ROMEMon.May55:30 pm8:30 pmBH355
79270CHINESE CULTRE SOCTYMon.May125:30 pm8:30 pmSH 324
79309BLCKS WM GAYS MILTRYTues.. May138:30 am11:30 amPHA18C
793240370MOD & PAIN 1880-1945Tues.May68:30 am11:30 amPHA22
79338IQ & PUB POL HIS PERTues.May131:00 pm4:00 pmPH226A
79340HSTRY MODRN WARFARETues.May68:30 am11:30 amSH 125
79345AMER ENV HIS CRITISMon.May125:30 pm8:30 pmBH255A
79350INTENVAFF&POLTues.May61:00 pm4:00 pmPH226A
79355/88319VT AF COM ANLINVWRFri.May91:00 pm4:00 pmPHA19C
79357COMMWLTHINDEPNT STSTues.May138:30 am11:30 amPHA20
79358INFO TECH & SOCIETYTues.May61:00 pm4:00 pmPH125C
79359HIS COMP CUR CONTVSMon.May121:00 pm4:00 pmPH125C
79371NEWTPCS IN SOC HSTYThurs.May85:30 pm8:30 pmBH235A
79396HIS AMER LANDSCAPEThurs.May88:30 am11:30amPH226A
79401COLLQUM ANTHRPLY HISTues.May138:30 am11:30 amPH Al 9
79422/82437NAZ&RESISTNC CULTRFri.May98:30 am11:30 amPH125C
79440/88345RIS INDTRL RES & DEVTues.May68:30 am11:30 amPH225B
IE,SwSkEs
80110NATURE MATHMTLREASNMon.May58:30 am11:30 amPH125C
80130INTRO TO ETHICSFri.May98:30 am11:30 amBH136A
80180NATURE OF LANGUAGEMon.May128:30 am11:30 amMMA14
80210INTRODUCTN TO LOGICMon.May51:00 pm4:00 pmSH 125
80211ARGUMENTS & INQUIRYFri.May98:30 am11:30 amPH226A80252/652HSTRY MODERN PHILOSMon.May55:30 pm8:30 pmPHA18A
80275/675METAPHYSICSTues.May65:30 pm8:30 pmPH126A
PSrnte xaeAHaAnw
82123 SELF-PACED GERMANTues.May68:30 am11:30 amBH231A
82132EL MANDRN CHINESE IITues.May131:00 pm4:00 pmPH 100
82141ELEMENTARY SPANISH 1Tues.May61:00 pm4:00 pmSH 206
82142ELEM SPANISH IIMon.May58:30 am11:30 amDH 1112
82162 Sec. AELEMEN ITALIAN IITues.May61:00 pm4:00 pmPHA18A
82162 Sec. BELEMEN ITALIAN IITues.May65:30 pm8:30 pmPHA18B
82163SELF-PACED ITALIANMon.May125:30 pm8:30 pmPHA18A
82172ELEM JAPANESE IIMon.May55:30 pm8:30 pmMM 103
82192ELEM RUSSIAN IITues.May65:30 pm8:30 pmPHA22
82201INTERMED FRENCH 1Fri.May98:30 am11:30 amPH126A
82221INTERMED GERMAN 1Mon.May51:00 pm4:00 pmPHA19D
82232INTERMED CHINESE IIMon.May128:30 am11:30 amSH 125
82241INTERMED SPANISH 1Tues.May61:00 pm4:00 pmPH125B
82242INTERMED SPANISH IITues.May131:00 pm4:00 pmPH125C
82262INTERMED ITALIAN IITues.May131:00 pm4:00 pmBH231A
82272INTERMED JAPANESEMon.May128:30 am11:30 amPHA18A
82342HSP LAN CUL B LAT AMMon.May128:30 am11:30 amPHA22
82344HSP LAN CUL B US LATMon.May125:30 pm8:30 pmPH126A
823723RD YEAR JAPANESEMon.May51:00 pm4:00 pmBH231A
82428GERMAN CLASSICL LITMon.May121:00 pm4:00 pmPHA22
82437/79422STUD GERMAN CULTUREFri.May98:30 am11:30 amPH125C
82480SOC & COG ASP BILINGTues.May68:30 am11:30 amPHA19A
IwsDES,SAs
85102 Lee. 1INTRO TO PSYCHOLOGYThurs.May85:30 pm8:30 pmDH 2315 & DH 2210
85102 Lee. 2INTRO TO PSYCHOLOGYThurs.May85:30 pm8:30 pmHHB103&HHB131
85120GENERAL PROGRAMMINGTues.May61:00 pm4:00 pmSH125
85211 Sec.ACOGNTVPSYCHOLOGYMon.May121:00 pm4:00 pmPH 100
85211 Sec. BCOGNTV PSYCHOLOGYMon.May121:00 pm4:00 pmBH136A
85221PRINC CHILD DVLPMNTTues.May131:00 pm4:00 pmDH2315
85241SOCIAL PSYCHOLOGYFri.May95:30 pm8:30 pmWEH 7500
85251PERSONALITYThurs.May81:00 pm4:00 pmPhi 100
85261ABNORMAL PSYCHOLOGYTues.May138:30 am11:30 amPH 100
85310RSCHMTHDCOGPSYMon.May121:00 pm4:00 pmBH255A
85320RSCHMTHD DEV PSYCHMon.May51:00 pm4:00 pmPH125B
85340RSCH MTHDS SOC PSYFri.May95:30 pm8:30 pmPH125B
85370/770VISUAL PERCEPTIONTues.May65:30 pm8:30 pmPHA20
85412/712PROD SYS MOD THOUGHTFri.May98:30 am11:30 amPHA21
85414/714CGNTVNEUROPSYCHFri.May95:30 pm8:30 pmPH226A
85419/719INTRO PAR DISTRPROCThurs.May88:30 am11:30 amPH125C
85421/721LANGUAGE&TH0UGHTTues.May68:30 am11:30 amPH226A
85428/728NEURO BASIS COG DEVThurs.May81:00 pm4:00 pmPHA22
85429/729SMHGLVCOGBNFNCTTues.May65:30 pm8:30 pmBH237B
85430/730NEWPERSPCTCOGNDEVMon.May51:00 pm4:00 pmPHA22
85432/732NONVERBAL COMMUNBEHTues.May61:00 pm4:00 pmBH237B
85441/741SOC PSY SOC PROBLEMSMon.May55:30 pm8:30 pmPH Al 9
85442/742SOCIAL PSYCH HEALTHFri.May91:00 pm4:00 pmPHA22
8544^746PSYCHOLOGY OF GENDERMon.May128:30 am11:30 amBH235B
85461/761PSYNEURBLOGBSATTMon.May125:30 pm8:30 pmPH225B
85481SEMIN INTERVENTIONThurs.May88:30 am11:30 amBH255A
dSDMa, oer fnDMwMSe dDMneDnw
88105INTRO WORLD POLITICSFri.May91:00 pm4:00 pmMM 103
88201STRANALY& DESIGNMon.May51:00 pm4:00 pmMMA14
88221POLICY ANALYSIS IITues.May65:30 pm8:30 pmSH125
88223DECANDECSUPSYSTMon.May128:30 am11:30 amPH 100
88313RATION VALSDEMOCRYMon.May125:30 pm8:30 pmBH231A
88319/79355VIET &AFGHAN:CMRDHFri.May91:00 pm4:00 pmPHA19C
88345/79440RISE INDUS RSCH DEVTues.May68:30 am11:30 amPH225B
88367/70367COMPTRS IN ORGNZTNSTues.May68:30 am11:30 amPH125C
88369USER INTERFCE DESIGNTues.May131:00 pm4:00 pmBH235B
88371DSGN INTACT MULTMEDIFri.May91:00 pm4:00 pmBH231A

---------------------------------------------------

x1MUi Mncrne a snceitui oiffle Geuyicmurq a xR vipcbncq xggR
Greg Marcks
Oh great, you sigh, another long bitch about 
why Highlander sucks. Well, youre right, but I 
would like to address an aspect of the Highlander 
cafeteria besides the quality of the food or the 
peculiar odor that lingers outside it when the 
weather gets warm. Fm talking about customer 
service:
The Highlander staff has no idea what these 
two words mean. Gustomer service means you 
dont wander off on a customer waiting for ser
vice. It means you are patient and courteous. It 
even means you occasionally try to hide your 
disdain for the person you are serving.
Fve worked in retail services, which, while 
slightly different from food services, has about 
the same level of interaction with the public. I 
would have been fired or at the very least repri
manded had I ever treated customers the way 
that I have been repeatedly treated by High
lander employees.
I do not mean to imply that everyone working 
there has bad customer service skills. On the 
contrary, most of them are friendly to customers 
or at least indifferent. Many work hard and seem 
genuinely dedicated to their jobs, which are by no 
means easy. Some, however, often display what 
vice-principals love to refer to as serious atti
tude problems. Since every employee is a reflec
tion of the organization that he or she works for, 
one bad experience by a customer can lead to a 
bad perception of the company. That person in 
turn may tell five friends about the experience, 
and soon a company has a bad reputation.
Once in a while, a dissatisfied customer will 
seek out a manager in order to express a com
plaint. I tried this method at Highlander, and 
while the manager I spoke to did try to rectify the 
situation, he seemed more interested in explain
ing the rules to me than in listening to my 
complaint. My brother is a general manager of a 
successful restaurant, and he knows as well as I 
that the best way to calm a dissatisfied customer 
is to introduce yourself and then shut up until 
the customer has finished speaking. Most of the 
time, the fact that someone is actually listening 
will soothe them to an extent, and it will then be 
easier to make things right.
Perhaps part of the service problem is that the
Jolee White/Tartan Art Editor
primary customers of Highlander are students, 
and a good many of us are insufferable assholes 
who have attitude problems of our own. But 
thats where the mantra of customer service 
comes in  The Customer Is Always Right, even 
when you just want to leap over the count-er and 
strangle that customer. Though in actuality, the 
customers are certainly not always right, treat
ing them as if they are right makes them easier 
to serve. In turn, the customers are more patient 
and responsive, and the daily relationship gets 
better instead of worse.
Customer service thus benefits the people on 
both sides ofthe counter. Ultimately, it is incum
bent upon the customers themselves to make 
sure that their customer service standards are 
met. If you have a problem with some aspect of a 
company, register a complaint. Fill out a cus
tomer comment card, or take the direct approach 
and speak to a manager. If you are still not 
satisfied, take your business elsewhere. This 
may not be a realistic option for most students, 
but just because you comprise a relatively cap
tive audience doesnt mean you should accept 
lower standards.
Greg Marcks is a junior creative writing major 
who still eats dinner at Highlander because he is 
lazy and doesnt like the Food Court feel ofthe 
University Center.
jcuric pi'lBim 0lkBneS
Douglas Howe
A friend recently told me a story 
about how she had to write a final 
paper with the topic, Create your 
own Utopia. She thought long 
and hard about the idea, but 
couldnt come up with any one 
thing that she knew everyone 
would be happy with.
The night before the due date, 
with absolutely nothing written, 
divine intervention hit, and her 
response to the assignment was 
this: Free Parking. That was 
the only thing she could find 
that she knew everyone would 
just really enjoy.
I like her philosophy because 
parking sure does suck, especially 
here on campus. Six spots for 
eight hundred cars.
Our fateful story begins as my 
roomie and I are waiting, forever, 
to find a spot to park behind the 
library. Eventually, these two 
guys come walking down the 
walk, which is always a good place 
to walk down, and cross the street 
to where the cars are parked. We 
jump on the gas and attempt to 
get the soon-to-be-vacated spot 
before 30 other cars come from 
nowhere to take it from us.
The guys keep looking back at 
us and laughing. They get to their 
car and one guy goes on the 
drivers side, while the other 
just stands by the adjacent cars 
trunk, laughing. At this point, I 
say, Theyre screwing with us, 
which they were.
Okay, ha ha, funny. Im com
pletely amused. Ohhh, you got 
me! But really, folks, is that not 
just plain cruel? Im not trying to 
compare parking spaces to World 
War II, but in the grand karmic 
scene, you cant gain quality 
points for that.
Later, down the road, I saw 
them do it to someone else. It was 
so funny to them, that it was
worth doing it twice. Its not 
that I was pissed, but the fact 
that they thought it was funny 
was the disturbing part. I dont 
claim to hold a PhD in comedy, 
but I know that joke isnt in the 
handbook.
I tell this story because Ive 
been realizing lately how desen
sitized, alienated, distant, out of 
touch, lost and cruel we all are, 
and most of the time we arent 
even aware of it.
I got into an elevator a few days 
ago with some random guy  
well, random to me at least, I 
hope hes not random to himself, 
or thats a whole other article  
and I had an awakening experi
ence. It smacked me in the face 
like a this is your brain on drugs 
frying pan.
When I got off the elevator, I 
realized that the moment before 
was probably the only chance that 
guy and I would ever have to 
communicate. Most likely, Ill 
never see him again, especially 
in those conditions (i.e., elevator, 
time, mood, life experience, etc.) 
and we blew it.
We got on the elevator, he 
pushed his button, I pushed mine, 
I attempted to be cool by using 
the Force to shut the elevator 
door (which failed in his unaf
fected eyes), and we stood still as 
we traveled together, in silence 
and utter discomfort. Maybe he 
wasnt thinking about this. He 
was probably thinking about his 
physics test, or laundry, or how 
much he wanted the desk at
tendant, but I felt it, so 
goddamnit, it happened.
Then, only a few moments later, 
I was sitting in the living area of 
my potatos pad, when another 
guy walks in, and goes to her 
suitemates door. He doesnt ac
knowledge my presence in the 
room. As far as hes concerned, I 
dont exist, or at least am not 
important in his' view of exist
ence. He does shave and a hair
cut on her door, and in humor
ous rebuttal, I do two bits. Alas, 
still no response.
I entered his world. I took the 
challenge, and he still pretended 
I was a figment of his imagina
tion. Im not meaning to chastise 
these dudes in any way. I do it 
too. Weve all done this sort of 
thing in our lives. Hell, how many 
times have any of you been in a 
major city and sat down to chat 
with a homeless guy begging for 
money? I wish I could say Ive 
done it more than I can count on 
my fingers, but I havent. Hell, I 
even attempted to be funny. The 
Force thing, the two bits gag. 
Nothing. What does it take to 
break the wall?
With these things in mind, I 
did a little experiment. There was 
a box in the hall of Maggie Mo one 
afternoon and I sat in it. For the 
half hour I sat in this box, I got 
the most interesting responses. 
Most people completely ignored 
me. They pretended that, in their 
safe reality, there wasnt a guy in 
the hallway sitting in a box, but 
Im sure at the same time they 
were thinking about not think
ing about me being in the box, so 
in a way, I had their attention 
rapped. Ignoring seems so much 
harder than anything. The people 
who did acknowledge me mostly 
gave me funny looks and burst
ing smiles, which is always a great 
response to get or give, I suppose. 
Maybe for a brief moment, one of 
those people felt better than they 
had a second before, and I got to 
be a part of that. All because I 
was Boxman.
Im not sure what you can take 
from that. Maybe, be aware. Open 
your eyes. Talk to people in el
evators. Sit in boxes. Gain a 
new perspective. Or, if any
thing, write to your congress
man about free parking.
Boxman is the columnist for
merly known as senior dramat 
Doug Howe. He welcomes any re
sponsible replies to his column.
8rbzierm mbttimr eiiziz 'nBIbm Dn'ufuruim uBIclyiBierm
Michael Sperger
If s about time we annexed Schenley Park.
All the Admissions brochures feature 
pictures from Flagstaff Hill as if it were 
part of our campus anyway, and the 
Child Care Center people would prob
ably love to acquire that rockin new 
playground off of the Boulevard of the 
Allies down past Phipps Conservatory.
Our campus will face a space crunch in 
the next several years as projects like 
the Purnell Center for the Arts and the 
new residence hall between Morewood 
and Mudge are completed. Better to sim
ply put off the problem for another couple 
decades than to squabble about which 
area of our ever-shrinking campus green 
space to wipe out next.
While were at it, lets take over the 
golf course up the hill and site a couple 
new facilities on those putting greens.
Last year, a crazy rumor circulated
hinting that the University was plan
ning to build a medical school on the 
course when CMU assumes control of 
the property at the end of 1997.
An interesting prospect, putting a 
medical school into our already eclectic 
mix of disciplines. We need first to tackle 
some more immediate problems, though.
First and foremost, we have to fix the 
parking problem.
Yes, parking is an auxiliary service 
and has to break even every year. But 
theyre staggering along under the $9 
million debt service for the East Cam
pus Garage, which went up along with 
Resnik and West Wing at the beginning 
of this decade.
Whats up with that?
Heres the thing: we have a $500 mil
lion endowment that the university 
wants to double by the year 2000.
Cant they send two percent of that 
target endowment fund over to Parking?
If anyone in Warner Hall can ex
plain this one for me, Id like to hear 
about it.
Im serious. The mechanics of higher 
education finance really elude me, and Id 
like to learn more about how it all works.
But I digress. Max Chittister, who has 
faithfully provided suggestions to me for 
nearly every week thus far, proposed 
building a major student-only parking 
facility somewhere near campus.
As he noted, People [here] have 
plenty of room. Its their cars that are 
jockeying for position.Good point. 
Parking should probably fall near the 
top of the list offacilities the cam
pus could really 
use. Another 
need: housing for 
grad students 
and married un
dergraduates.
Dan Giammar, a
recent CMU_____________________
alum and current BMHBHHBHHHMi 
grad student at CalTech, reports that 
his school provides housing for all in
coming graduate students. It helps 
when youre traveling from another 
part of the country or even from an
other country to have guaranteed hous
ing when you arrive at school.
Some folks in this community think 
our existing housing is a little too cushy.
When CMU builds more housing, Matt 
Solitro writes, we dont need a fancy, 
upperclassmen apartment/suite thing. 
Im talking about a decent standard 
double-rooms freshman dorm.
We need space for freshmen on cam
pus, so we need a building that will not 
keep more upperclassmen on campus.
Other community members have deParking should probably fall near 
the top of the list of facilities the 
campus could really use. Another 
need: housing for grad students 
and married undergraduates.
signs on our surrounding neighborhood 
as well: I would love to see retreat/ 
outdoor adventure facilities on or near 
campus, says Barbara Prevost, coordi
nator of Student Development.
Schenley Park might provide a close 
place, yet a different atmosphere. So 
often student groups and/or members 
of the CMU community struggle with
getting away from campus for a re
treat experience.
Many groups have enjoyed the out
door adventure facilities at Ligonier 
and other Western Pennsylvania loca
tions, but having this type of facility 
close to campus would allow even more 
students, staff, and faculty to take 
advantage ofgetting away with their 
colleagues to do strategic planning 
and team building!
So lets take over Schenley Park 
and ease this Universitys growing 
pains.
And while were at it, lets improve 
the buggy course to the point that it 
starts looking like a bobsled run. Ill 
bet those things can top 100 miles per 
hour no problem on a good track.
Michael Sperger is a junior profes
sional writing major. Each week hei 
will be writing on a different aspect of 
campus life.
His topic for next week: How can 
Carnegie Mellon improve its commu
nity service involvement? Email re
sponses by Wednesday night to 
sperg+forum@andrew.cmu.edu.slfbBeumr Diifm JO rnk ?nmrim rnkInqicmS Bleiq le mIlcrm
James Stepanek
I hope everyone here likes 
hockey. Considering that youre 
paying for the Penguins whether 
you go to games or not, youd 
better like them. What am I talk
ing about?
Well you see, theres this thing 
call the Regional Asset Develop
ment tax which is a one-percent 
boost in Allegheny County sales 
taxes that is used for local cul
tural events and facilities. What 
it has translated to is a form of 
welfare for sports teams (and an 
economic boost for neighboring 
counties).
Just this past week, the com
mittee in charge of allocating the
RAD funds handed Howard 
Baldwin (owner of the Pen
guins) a check for 12.9 million 
bucks. Now dont you feel good 
about helping out those desti
tute millionaires?
After all, it was your money. 
Every time you bought yourself 
something, one percent of what 
you paid went towards this kind 
of spending. Of course, poor Mr. 
Baldwin had been clamoring for 
this money for quite a while.
Baldwin, though, has man
aged to show an astonishing 
amount of gall this time. He 
had been clamoring for the 
money because he claims that 
the Civic Arena is too old and 
needs to be modernized, thus 
the RAD money should be used 
for this.
Accepting that my taxes 
should be used to fund 
Baldwins profit making, once 
he received the money he stated 
that he was going to buy out the
rights to run the arena himself.
While I dont have any prob
lems with Baldwin trying to 
make money, I do have a great 
deal of trouble with his assump
tion that money which the gov
ernment swindles out of me is 
somehow his. He has no right to 
that money.
In fact, Allegheny county has 
little enough right itself. How
ever the city government is a 
bunch of spineless fools who 
believe that this city will dry 
up and blow away if any of the 
sports teams move on.
Lets face it, despite a whole 
lot of claimed economic benefit 
that is supposedly derived from 
sports teams, I cant really say 
that those teams make a bit of 
difference.
Lets compare Pittsburgh with 
a city of roughly the same size 
that doesnt have any major 
league sports teams. How about 
Columbus, Ohio?
Theyre about the same size 
with no teams, and yet some
how they have a booming 
economy. Could it be that a bet
ter climate for business is more 
important than whether or not 
you can go watch a pro hockey 
game?
Columbus has better tax 
rates, less bureaucracy,
The really funny thing about 
this situation is that the RAD 
tax is so utterly wrongheaded 
as to be ludicrous. They are ac
tually driving business out of 
the city by this effort to keep 
business through retaining 
sports teams.
Since the RAD tax has been 
passed, all of the surrounding
However the city government is a 
bunch of spineless fools who be
lieve that this city will dry up and 
blow away if any of the sports 
teams move on. 
and a less militant union pres
ence. Funny how they also 
have about no unemployment, 
and supermarkets out there 
pay $7/hour at a minimum to 
get workers.
counties have had an economic 
boom as people who used to drive 
into the city to shop have not 
bothered, and some who are near 
the edges of the county cross the 
border to make their purchases.
You see, this is a very 
case of how two different philoso
phies of government work (or 
dont).
In Columbus, they dont be
lieve that smoke and mirrors 
are going to save their economy, 
so they try to make it a good 
place to do business.
In Pittsburgh, we have a city 
council composed of Democrats 
who believe that the perception 
of a healthy city (eg. pro sports 
teams) is more important than 
it being a good place to do busi-; 
ness.
In fact, they will sacrifice the 
business climate for the sake of 
their perception.
Of course, the perception then 
turns out to have nothing to do 
with reality.
James Stepanek is a PhD can
didate in materials science en
gineering. He welcomes any 
sponsible replies to his column

---------------------------------------------------

MUi Mncrne Y snceitui oiffle Geuyicmurq a xR vipcbncq xggRxx
ADMINISTRATION
DirectorMikeMastrolannix8-2214; 
Assistant Director  Mike Grzywinski 
X8-2214 orx8-1233; Intramural Secre
tary  Michelle Matta x8-2053; Intra
mural President  Matt Williams 621- 
8987; Womens PresidentPia Soriano 
681-4031
Important Dates
Tuesday, February 18  IM Board 
Meeting 11:30 am Gym Conference 
Room.
Monday, February 24  Water Bas
ketball begins
Sports In Season
Basketball
Games are underway at both the Uni
versity Center and in Skibo Gymnasium. 
Teams are reminded not to use the 
alarmed doors at the UC and to stay out 
of Varsity Basketball practice. There will 
be enough time allowed for warm ups 
prior to the games.
For minors and intermediate teams 
that are in divisions where others have 
forfeited out, please show up for the 
games as scheduled. Teams have been 
added to play out the schedule.
Playoffs will begin on Tuesday, Febru
ary 25 and will wrap up with the finals on 
IM Night March 8.
Floor Hockey
The 1997 road to the Thistle Cup 
has begun. There are 54 teams in 4 
leagues. Games will be played from 7 
to 11 pm on Monday through Thursday 
nights. Teams are reminded to stay 
out of track practice. You will have 
time to warm up.
Pinochle
The schedules are out. Please pick 
them up and play games as scheduled. 
Report scores to the IM office.
Sports Upcoming 
Squash
The Intramural Department will be 
offeringa new sport this season. Squash
leagues will be forming soon. Watch this 
column for future details.
Water Basketball
IM water basketball will begin Monday 
Feb 24th. Games will take place at the 
University Center pool. They will be played 
on Monday, Wednesday, and Thursday 
nights from 9 to 11.
Wrestling
The 1997 IM Wrestling Tournament 
will take place In March. Entries will be 
taken up to the evening of the matches. 
Weigh-ins will be immediately prior to 
the matches. Watch this column for 
more details.
Basketball Rankings
MAJORS
1. TX Liquid
2. Dream Team
3. Beta
INTERMEDIATE
1. PKT Agongs
2. Beta Seniors
3. Kappa Sigma
4. White Trash
5. Dominions
MINORS
1. Big Nutz
2. Buttersvllle Bombers A
3. Dead Frog
4. PKT Damn Bees
5. DU Drunk
6. Gang Green
7. Beta Ma-jiggers
8. 69ers
9. Priapism
10. TSA Hell's Yeah
WOMEN
1.Tartan Hoopers G
2. ASA Swoosh
 Basketball rankings are compiled by 
the intramural department. The Tartan 
has no influence on the rankings.
Submitted by 
MIKE GRZYWINSKI
Hockey unveils real life drama
From the net
by Jessica Strelitz 
and Chris Adukaitis
Sports are no different than ev
eryday life. Participants face the 
same pressures and problems that 
the general society does. A recent 
dilemma in the NHL community 
concerns the conviction of Graham 
James, one of the leading minors 
hockey coaches in Canada, on sexual 
misconduct charges. The charges 
were brought by two former play
ers, including current Bruins right
winger, Sheldon Kennedy.
James plead guilty to charges Janu
ary 2, and was subsequently sentenced 
to 3 1/2 years in Canadian prison. 
Kennedy has been leading a different 
life now since breaking his silence after 
14 years. Suddenly, the topic of sexual 
abuse in ice hockey is spotlighted like 
never before.
When Kennedy was playing for the 
Calgary Flames, he began to trouble 
team officials and players with rumors 
of drug and alcohol abuse, long ab
sences, and odd behavior. This made 
him a live-wire 
player, not totally 
stable. But nobody 
understood the rea
son. So, last October 
when Kennedy 
didnt report to his 
new team, the Bru
ins training camp 
for personal rea
sons, fans were 
slapping their fore
heads with an I told 
you so air. They 
didnt know, nobody 
did. What Kennedy 
had been grappling 
with for years, were 
his haunting memo
ries of abuse, which 
took place when he 
was playing for 
James on the Swift 
Current Broncos of 
the Western Hockey 
League in the 80s.
A lot of people are
laudable in the aftermath of Kennedys 
revelations. The Bruins organization 
has been very understanding by allow
ing Kennedy to make breaks from his 
playing schedule so that he could tes
tify. Athletes such as Eric Lindros, Ron 
Hextall, Brian Skrudland as well as 
Rick Tocchet and Adam Oates from the 
Bruins, have publicly supported 
Kennedys actions. There are still some 
professional players who had contact 
with James who have not come for
ward; but players like Theo Fluery have 
hinted at that possibility, someday.
And of course, the ballsy move by 
Kennedy himself. This isnt exactly a 
sport where you can just walk out and 
point fingers for sexual abuse, especially 
at a coach. Coaches in hockey, in par
ticular juniors in Canada where the sport 
reigns, are treated like gods. You live
is a very masculine sport and t<) be 
raped by another man has to be oije of 
the worst things imaginable, especially 
when there are people you are playing 
against who can be cruel with t)ieir 
words on the ice. Talking trash can, 
cross the lineand still may. He !will 
have to deal with that.
There remains the question of Jaynes 
now. Undoubtedly, he is a very ]sick; 
man. There are disturbing factor^: be 
cant be in contact with minors fox{ ten, 
years but he is eligible for parole i\i 14' 
months. There were some complaints, 
lodged about him in the past which, 
were overlooked due to his prominence. 
This is a problem that is symptomatic. 
of the system; where the coach is above 
the law.
But justice was served. There have; 
been calls for reform and furtheij reCoaches in hockey, in particular juniors in 
Canada where the sport reigns, are treated 
like gods."
with their families, travel with them 
everywhere, and practice with them. It 
is a total immersion situation that al
lows the coach to wield incredible power 
over developing youth. Don Cherry put 
the feeling best when he commented on 
playingjunior hockey, It was like being 
a baby among men.
Kennedy not only risked ridicule, if 
James had not pled guilty; but he risked 
being ostracized from hockey. Hockey
Tony Yu/Tartan Junior Art Staff
view and scrutiny to sexual abuse cases. 
James is in maximum security prison 1 
where sports is a big thing, and leer-, 
tainly hockey is no bigger anywhere in 
the world than Canada. James will! un
doubtedly get his, and more.
Kennedy, who scored in yesterdays 
overtime loss to the Phoenix Coyqtes, i 
is looking forward now to promoting 
himself as a player and as a husband 
and father. Last week, Steve Funk of 
the Canadian Maple Leafs Financial 
Corporation, formally donated ;600 
acres of land in Fernie, B.'GL to 
Sheldon for his use to build a retreat 
for abused children, or to sell -and 
build elsewhere.
The Sheldon Kennedy Foundation can 
take donations at (800) 692-6690' and is 
located on the Internet at http://" 
www.sheldonkennedy.org/. There iaalso 
a web page where you can send worcls of 
support which are collected, compiled 
and sent to Kennedy at http://- 
w w w. c m j music.com/Bbr u in s / 
sheldonsupport.html.
Chris Adukaitis is a senior environ
mental and civil engineering major. 
When the Flyers make it to the StanleyCup finals, he wont say I told you so, 
even though he did.
Jessica Strelitz is a junior professional 
writing major who wants everyone to* 
know that despite what Don Cherry 
thinks, European hockey players are. 
beautiful (unless theyre from Sweden!}.-
MinB DutUrm pn'T Vzueplcl
SHOOTOUT, from page 14
with three minutes left. Ive been 
running and conditioning, I de
cided to get in shape for the play
offs, Ivanovic said on his fantas
tic night, Someone has to step it 
up, why not me?
fifth. Its nice to send a guy out 
there to try to get two guys with 
five goal games; a first for me. 
Ardire sealedthe victory with a 
goal in the closing minute. It was 
his 23rd goal in only eight games. 
Ardire was, as always, humble
/ decided to get in shape for the 
playoffs. Someone has to step it up."
 Relja Ivanovic 
_____________________senior forward
Coach Maddalena was very about his goal-scoring skills, The 
happy with the two players, I only one that I wanted to get was 
tried to give Relja an opportunity the one that Doreen (Mulryan) 
for his fifth goal when Ray got his passed to me, and I missed that
one/' Freshman Doreen 
Mulryan played several shifts 
in the third period. She is one 
of two active women players in 
the Western Pennsylvania Col
lege Hockey Association.
The team is optimistic about 
their final regular season 
game, against rivals Univer
sity of Pittsburgh, next Satur
day night at Neville. It is a 
big game next Saturday and 
we need to let Pitt know that 
we have a serious hockey 
team, said Coach Maddalena. 
Ivanovic added, Pitt is going 
to give us a much tougher game 
next week. We have to step it 
up and I think that we can 
beat them.
Anthongy Chao/Tartan Photo Editor 
The club hockey team has been slamming their opponents, winning all but one game this semester.
VOLLEYBALL, from page 14
in their time. So everyone here is really dedi
cated, and you can see it in the way that they 
play. The only thing we need to work on is 
keeping that dedication level up. Overall, if 
were playing at our top level theres no one in 
our conference that can hang with us.
They do still have some things to work on as 
shown by todays games.
Once the chemistry clicks in, causing our pass
ing and the timing in the middle to get better, well 
have a much better offense, said Lee. Then he 
added with a grin, and well always be loud.
Next Saturday, February 22, the Tartans 
will entertain both Indiana University of 
Pennsylvania and Pennsylvania State University-Beaver at home. The home games will 
be played in Skibo Gymnasium.
The club then has a pair of two team road 
matchups before returning for a couple of 
home matchups in mid-March. Most of the 
rest of the teams games are away from Carnegie 
Mellon. The team looks to those games and 
further in the future with optimism. 
Sahala Swensen, a freshman said, I think 
within the Pennsylvania conference we can 
do really well, and I expect well get a 
chance to go to Nationals.
Jason Seigendorf/Tartan Photo Staff Managed 
CMU goes for a block in Skibo Gymnasium.
hfz Dn'im tl rl ei? Ifn'im
NFL, from page 13
ers replaced Ross with Kevin Gilbride, Jackson
ville Jaguars offensive coordinator last year and 
also the guy whom Buddy Ryan decked. The 
Chargers are in a state of transition right now 
and it should take a couple of years before Gilbride 
can make a winner out of them.
The Oakland Raiders promoted Joe Bugel to 
head coach. Bugel is a good coach, and if A1 Davis 
can stay out of Bugles job, he will prove it. The 
Raiders are taking a big chance on signing Jeff 
George, but if he can be the quarterback they have 
been searching for, look for the Raiders to finally 
achieve their full potential.
Teams will try anything to win. Some teams 
seem to have free agency all figured out and are 
consistently in the playoffs, while other teams
Team takes fall
manage to only pull out one winning season foi-' 
every four losing seasons. Being successful in; 
free agency does not guarantee a playoff berth, 
but a look at most of the teams that made the; 
playoffs last year will reveal that they are also 
the ones who have the best free agency strategy.
Steve Charnoubi is a junior computer science\ 
major. Hes a wizard when it comes to picking tip] 
free agents in fantasy football. Hes gearing up for 
next year already.
But he probably thinks the Eagles will have a 
good free agency, which might happen. He also 
probably thinks that either the Eagles or ah AFC 
team will win the SuperBowl next season, which 
wont happen. Steves a diehard fan, hot afairweather fan, so well forgive him for this.

---------------------------------------------------

xCMUi Mncrne a snceitui oiffle Geuyicmurq a xR vipcbncq xggR
Jul Dal/Tartan 
Junior Art Staff
; Jeff Gordon wins Daytona 500
; Fate smiled on Jeff Gordon once again 
tpday as the 25-year-old from 
Pittsboro, Indiana became the young
est driver ever to win NASCARs crown 
jarel, the Daytona 500 at Daytona 
International Speedway in Florida. 
Qrclon, the 1995 Winston Cup champiqji, took the checkered flag under 
cai|t'ion as his Hendrick Motorsports 
teammates Terry Labonte, the reigning*Winston Cup champion, and Ricky 
Qraven pulled alongside in formation 
to make it a 1-2-3 finish for the pre
mier Winston Cup team. The results 
of todays race are a tremendous turn 
of luck for team owner Rick Hendrick, 
who is battling legal problems as part 
of a federal investigation of his auto
mobile dealerships and health prob
lems stemming from leukemia. 
Hendrick Motorsports drivers nearly 
accomplished this feat in 1989, when 
Darrell Waltrip took the Daytona 500, 
with Ken Schrader running second and 
Geoff Bodine fourth.
Rams RB Phillips arrested
St. Louis Rams running back Lawrence 
Phillips was arrested early this morn
ing in Omaha, Nebraska, on disorderly 
conduct charges, police said. Omaha 
Police Officer Jim Murray said that 
Phillips  already on probation for a 
drunken driving charge last year in 
California  was arrested early this 
morning along with another man after
an incident at an Omaha hotel.
According to Murray, Phillips was 
detained for less than 30 minutes be
fore posting bond for his release. Po
lice said Phillips is scheduled to appear 
Tuesday morning in Douglas County 
Court on the misdemeanor charge, add
ing that they did not know how this 
arrest would or could affect the terms of 
his probation.
Magic deny coach Hill has beenfired
If Orlando Magic coach Brian Hill has 
been fired, its news to his boss. Magic 
general manager John Gabriel denied a 
report on NBC Sports tonight that said 
Hill was out as coach. The report came 
right after the Magics nationally tele
vised 110-89 road loss to the Chicago 
Bulls, their fourth straight setback since 
the All-Star break. He has not been 
fired, Gabriel told NBC, adding that 
Hill would coach against the Charlotte
Hornets on Monday, the finale of a fourgame road trip. The team is off Tuesday 
before facing Portland at home on 
Wednesday night.
Minnesota new two in latest poll
Kansas is still number one, but the 
Jayhawks have a new face in their rear
view mirror  Minnesota  as the lat
est CNN/USA Today college basketball 
poll was released tonight. TheJayhawks 
(25-1), who posted home routs over Okla
homa State and then 16th-ranked Colo
rado, received 28 of 30 first-place, votes 
and 748 points from a panel of Division 
I coaches. Minnesota (22-2), which has 
a 3 1/2-game lead atop the Big Ten 
Conference, garnered the other two firstplace votes and 701 points.
Hingis defeats Huber in finals
Top seed Martina Hingis of Switzer
land captured her fourth WTA Tour 
title in as many tournaments today, 
downing third seed Anke Huber of Ger
many, 6-3, 3-6, 6-3 in the finals of the 
$450,000 Open Gaz de France tennis 
tournament in Paris. The 16-year-old 
Hingis, despite dropping only her fourth 
set this year, improved to 21-0 overall 
in 1997 as she picked up $79,000 for the 
victory. Hingis, who became the young
est man or woman to reach the $1 
million mark in career earnings last 
year, has already earned more than 
$800,000 in the first month-and-a-half 
of 1997.
Hingis, currently ranked second in 
the world behind Germanys Steffi 
Graf, became the youngest Grand Slam 
singles champion in the Open Era by 
winning the Australian Open three 
weeks ago. Since winning her first WTA 
Tour title at Filderstadt, Germany last 
October, Hingis only losses have come 
to Graf and Novotna.Jbeeic 4bnfuDuim 
Dlc 'UnBIulemUuIm
QUALIFIED, from page 14
III runners. ButDonatelli says, 
She has not reached her full po
tential yet.
Many of the athletes who will 
be competing in the 5,000-meter 
run at the Track and Field Cham
pionships will be the same ath
letes who ran the 5,000-meter 
course at the Cross Country 
Championships. Yet Donatelli 
feels that the competition at the 
Tijack and Field Championships 
wojll be considerably stiffer, be
cause there will be a much smaller 
number of athletes who get to 
cojnpete  only 11-13 athletes 
typically compete in any one 
evjent. So all of the top cross coun
ty runners will be fighting for 
on|ly a handful of spots. Donatelli 
said that the competition in this. 
event will be the cream of the 
. crftp from cross-country.
Cponatelli also believes that 
McGranaghan will most likely 
ruin even faster at the champion
ship meet because of the level of 
competition. At Championships, 
MtGranaghan will be able to pace 
and j-ace against the best runners.in the division for the entire
5,000 meters. The Track and Field 
Championships will be held on 
M'arch 7-8 at the University of 
Wlsconsin-Oshkosh.
Donatelli has kept the star run
ner on a dedicated training sched
ule, racing only occasionally. You 
cant train as hard when youre 
racing [often], McGranaghan 
said. Its not possible to race that 
hard every week and stay strong. 
The runner says that while shes 
focusing on training in the indoor 
season, she plans on competing 
more in for outdoors. Theres 
more possibilities in outdoors, 
McGranaghan said, mentioning 
the increased number of events 
in outdoor track and the longer 
season. Im not going to race 
again until UAAs, said 
McGranaghan. .
The UAA Championships may 
provide an interesting preview 
to the national competition, as 
McGranaghan will likely go 
head-to-head with Washington 
Universitys Emily Richards, 
who currently has the secondfastest time in the division. 
Richards won the 5000-meter 
run at last years outdoor cham
pionships and also placed first 
in the confernence cross country 
championships, which Wash. U. 
hosted, last fall. No matter how 
McGranaghan runs the rest of 
the season, she is once again 
poised to write herself into the 
CMU recordbooks.
Mcn'T rinBm mUnIi bI Dlc lbrzllcm
By BENJAMIN ROBERTS
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellons Men and 
Women track teams travelled 
to Denison University Satur
day for an individual meet with 
Duquesne, Mount Union, and 
the Big. The meet was held on 
Denisons new state of the art 
Mondo Track. Dario Donatelli, 
Carnegie Mellons womens 
head coach, enjoyed the oppor
tunity that it gave his team.
It was nice for the second 
meet of the year; we dont have 
a track, and the team did well 
in being focused, lacing up the 
spikes, and getting down to 
business, Donatelli said. 
Were going back this week 
(Friday night), so well do even 
better. This meet was unusual 
in that team scores were not 
kept. Coach Donatelli was glad 
to see that his team remained 
focused. It was really encour
aging to see that they were still 
thinking about individually 
winning, but it was also great 
to see them interested in how 
the team was doing. They were 
willing to take in all comers.
Tracks a different sport, 
said Jessica Connelly, who 
placed first in the triple jump. 
Youre always driving to im
prove. This meet was nice in 
that there was a little less pres
sure, but we all still wanted to do 
really well.
Connelly, battling a knee in
jury she sustained dining bas
ketball season, was forced to 
change her technique, one she 
has had since sixth grade.
She placed first in the triple 
jump with a distance of 32 7-1/2, 
and third in the long jump with a 
score of 14 2-1/2. Other notable 
finishers were Margaret Powers 
and Andrea Byrnes finishing sec
ond and third in the 3,000 Meters 
(10:45.11 and 10:51.87) Melinda 
Hungerman, third in the 400m 
(66.69 seconds), Kristi Sorcan, 
fourth in the 1500m (6:18.70), 
and Rosie Perez, fourth in the 
Shot Put, 3210-l/4.
Mens Coach Gary Meckley was 
fairly pleased with his squads 
performance. Everybody is com
ing along. There is no real 
standout at this point. Aron 
Binkley did pretty well, consider
ing he wasnt able to practice. 
Bryan Meyer, Kenn Oldham, Josh 
Donner did very, very well in the
3,000 meters. Bryan and Kenn 
had personal bests.
Dave Schafer echoed senti
ments of both squads when he 
said he wasnt yet in shape. It 
takes me a long time to get in 
shape... Itll be another three or 
four weeks... but then I peak for a 
really long time.
Connelly commented that, The
trainers room is really packed... 
Were really injury plagued... 
Wed all like a little more time 
before UAAs. Coach is a little 
more worried about it than we 
are, but coaches are supposed to 
worry about that stuff. I think 
well be okay.
The Tartans compete at 
Denison again next Friday.
Notable finishers on the mens 
team:
1500m Kristo Kriechbaum, 
fourth, 4:12.9, MarkPlesko, fifth, 
4:12.9; 400m David Shaver, 
fourth, 53.86; 55m Jon Voymas,
fourth 6.97; 800m Malik Wash
ington, fifth, 2:02.19; 300m David 
Schafer, third, 37.90; 3000m 
Bryan Meyer, second, 8:55.99, 
Kenn Oldham, fifth, 9:00.73, Josh 
Donner, sixth, 9:02.68, Seb 
Zeisler, seventh, 9:11.02, Brian 
Ingram, eleventh, 9:22.01, Ron 
Polcawich, twelth, 9:24.43; 
4x400m CMU, second, 3:37.33; 
Long Jump Todd Kozuki, fourth, 
1810-l/2"; Triple Jump Todd 
Kozuki, fourth, 392-l/2"; High 
Jump Peter Hunt, third, 60"; Shot 
Put Jeff Thomas, fifth, 340"; Pole 
Vault Aaron Binkley, first, 130", 
Rick Rikoski, second, 126"
Jason Siegendorf/Tartan Photo Staff Manager 
The track teams are looking forward to the outdoor season.
Mncrnem 
rUclbtU
1 TROUBLES, from page 14
j After the Washington U 
j game, CMU traveled to Wash ington U. to take on the secj ond-place Bears. The Tartans 
j held oh at first, receiving scor' ing from many sources as 
 Bodnar, sophomore Tommy 
 Praesel, Trendel, and junior 
j Colin Shaunnessey each put in
* points in the early going. But 
J the Bears went on a 13-4 run 
 in less than six minutes to open
 up a 16 point gap that CMU 
' could never narrow. The game 
' went back and forth most of 
 the second half, but the Tar| tans able to close the margin to 
| single digits only once off a
mrcbttfi
?iiTiez
flying hook by sophomore Scott 
Mills with 7:53 left in the game. 
Washington Us lead quickly 
ballooned again as CMU scored 
only six points over the next 
four minutes. Praesel, a guard, 
led the team with 16 points. 
Trendel had 14 points and nine 
rebounds.
The Tartans were plagued 
with foul troubles, as five play
ers collected three or more fouls. 
Washington U. also seemed to 
distribute the ball better, col
lecting 20 assists to just nine 
from Carnegie Mellon. Mills 
and Shaunnessey each added 
eight points and three rebounds 
off the bench.
W0 nez Ws cbfim cimrcu'r lIrulem 
Dlc rlI 'lffitunri pnmTirpnff Ifnqicm
Above the rim
by Kevin Kroen
In recent years, the debate 
over college basketball players 
leaving campus early to pursue 
an NBA career has become a hot 
topic. Compared to the days 
when only players like Michael 
Jordan left early, today we have 
players like Yinka Dare and 
Jeff Mclnnis deciding 
their good enough to go on 
to the next level long be
fore graduation (or I 
should say their fourth year 
of college). Is there a problem? 
If so, what can be done to help 
save college basketball? Should 
the NBA become a baby-sitting 
service for young egotistical ath
letes who think they should be 
on the same court as Michael 
Jordan?
Contrary to what some 
people believe, there are a lot 
of underclassman who left col
lege at the right time. Allen 
Iverson, Joe Smith, Stephon 
Marbury, these guys came out 
at the right time and are all 
making significant contribu
tions to their respective teams. 
The problem isnt the fact that 
there are players leaving early, 
its with the number of mis
guided college players who 
stupidly declare them
selves eligible for the 
draft. These players find
themselves, if drafted, sitting 
on the end of the bench or bet
ter yet, playing pro ball in Eu
rope or in the CBA. The list of 
names could go on for a while. 
There are stories such as Scotty 
Thurman, of Arkansass 1994 
national championship team, 
who declared himself eligible 
for the NBA draft, and now 
finds himself floating around 
the CBA.
Many of these players could 
have developed their skills at the 
college level and gone onto pro
fessional careers. This doesnt 
mean that they would stay an 
entire four years at college, 
but they would know when 
they were ready for
Bradley left af
ter his fresh
man year. That 
should say it all. If 
he were to play, say 
two more years of 
college ball, he 
wouldnt of gone 
into the NBA 
only being 
able to 
bench
coach in America agrees on is 
that the sleezeball sports agents 
who lure young basketball play
ers out of college and into the 
pros need to go. These agents 
need to be identified and not
players who dont reach the NBA 
into some serious debt. Finally, if 
a player who is unhappy say up to 
ayear after being drafted should 
be allowed to go back to college 
and keep his eligibility.
The NCAA hasn't been smart enough 
yet to come up with ways to stop the 
influx of players into the professional 
ranks. 
press
eighty 
pounds. 
With all these 
players leaving 
early, how can 
the college game be 
helped? There are sev
eral solutions to fix this 
problem. First, some
thing that every college
allowed anywhere near these 
players. The NBA should then 
not tolerate these agents doing 
business in their league. Next, 
NCAA Division I schools 
should permit players to 
be given a stipend. Im 
not saying to make 
these guys into 
rich athletes, 
but at least if 
they receive a 
flat pay rate, 
there may 
be an
centive to stay in 
school when their 
families are in se
rious financial 
trouble. Big 
schools 
make 
enough \ m 0 n e y
from TV \ and
shoe contracts 
as it is. A watered 
down option is give 
low or no-interest 
loans, but that would put the
The team that drafted him 
would still have rights for the 
contract, and the player would 
receive no pay from the pro team 
while in college, but the player 
would be able to fully develop 
his skills at the college level, 
the college game would be more 
competitive, and most impor
tantly, the player would be able 
to receive an education.
The NCAA hasnt been smart 
enough yet to come up with ways 
to stop the influx of players into 
the professional ranks. Its going 
to take a radical solution if you 
want to sort the players who 
should be leaving for the NBA 
with the players who should be 
staying in the classroom.
Kevin Kroen is a freshman 
H&SS undeclared major. 
Rather than tempt fate and forgo 
his final three years of college 
basketball eligibility, he has de
cided the stay in school.He 
doesnt have an agent, he doesnt 
have a low or no-interest loan, 
he doesnt have a stipend from 
the athletic department, and no
body has his draft rights. He 
likes it that way.
?---- Brian Smith/Tartan Photo Staff
v.Qary Trendel looks to rebound LaDelae Widmeyers shot.

---------------------------------------------------

MUi Mncrne a snceitui oiffle Geuyicmurq a xR vipcbncq xggRxd
Coach, player moves shake up NFL
4th and 26
by Steve Charnoubi
When the AFC kicked an overtime field 
joal to win the Pro Bowl over the NFC the 
1996 NFL season was officially over. But no 
worries, the 1997 season is already well 
under way. Right now one of the biggest 
games of the season is being played by all
themselves around include cornerback Rod 
Woodsman, wideout Andre Hastings, and 
halfback Jerome Bettis from the Steelers, 
who have already lost linebacker Chad 
Brown to the Seattle Seahawks. Seattle has 
also given up hope on quarterback Rick 
Mirer, whom they traded away to the Chi
cago Bears. Quarterback Jeff George just 
signed a five-year deal with the Oakland 
Raiders, giving him one last shot to prove 
whether or not he should be playing profes
sional football. The Super Bowl champs are 
in danger of losing their all-pro defensive 
tackle Gilbert Brown, who is reportedly 
headed for Jacksonville.
Some unrestricted free agents who could be 
looking for a move include running backs 
Garrison Hearst and Larry Centers, wide 
receivers Tony Martin, Eric Metcalf, and 
Desmond Howard, center Steve Everitt, deRoss should do wonders with the talent he has on 
Detroit. Look for Detroit to be one the top teams
in the NFC next year. "
thirty teams, free agency.
The NFL off-season is the opportunity for 
some teams to reconstruct themselves, and 
for other teams to pick up the final pieces of 
the puzzle that will take them to the next 
level. Teams develop strategies, coaches de
termine what areas of the team need im
provement, and general managers try to free 
up enough money under their salary cap so 
: that they can go out and get the players their 
; coaches need.
More than 300 players will be free agents 
[this year, making up the strongest class in 
the five-year history of the collective bar
gaining agreement. Some of the big names 
that will be shopping
fensive linemen Tony Siragusa and William 
Fuller, and kicker Chris Jacke. The players 
are not the only free agents out there. Be
tween the beginning of the 1996 season and 
now, more than a third of the NFL teams 
thought a change was necessary as eleven 
head coaches have been hired.
This marks the biggest turnover in head 
coaching since the NFL/AFL merger. The 
first head coaching change came from Cin
cinnati in the middle of last season when 
they fired David Shula less than a year after 
his father, Don Shula, was edged out of 
Miami. The two teams that play in the Meadowlands, the Giants and Jets, have hired 
new coaches. The Giants have hired Jim 
Fassel, who was a former assistant to Ray 
Handley when he coached the Giants, to 
replace Dan Reeves. The Jets had to give 
up two picks from 
this
Simona Lo/Tartan Art Staff
years draft, their second round pick from 
next years draft, and their first round pick 
from 1999 NFL draft to steal Bill Parcells 
away from the New England Patriots. Both 
teams are a mess right now on both sides of 
the ball. Parcells made Super Bowl teams 
out of his previous two within four years of 
being hired. The Jets are hoping he can do 
the same for them. Fassel will have to figure 
out what to do with Dave Brown before the 
Giants can make any moves forward.
Bill Parcells is such a nice guy. Not only 
did he leave New Englands new head coach 
Pete Carroll a Super Bowl team, but also 
given him a whole bunch of draft picks to 
make sure Carroll would have no problem 
taking over the team. Barry Switzer did not 
even have it so good when he took over the 
Cowboys. Carroll inherits a team in almost 
no danger of losing any of its players and 
given enough draft picks to insure the fu
ture is secure. Carroll is a good coach who 
should have no trouble picking up where 
Parcells left off.
The San Francisco 49ers lost their defen
sive coordinator when Pete.Carroll took the 
New England job. Just recently George 
Seiffert retired and the 49ers hire Steve 
Mariucci to take the helm and try to return 
the 49ers to the NFC Championship Game. 
Seiffert will remain in the 49ers organiza
tion in a similar capacity to that of Bill 
Walsh. Three other coaches were hired in 
the NFC West. Three veteran coaches Dan 
Reeves, Mike Ditka, and Dick Vermeil went 
to coach Atlanta, New Orleans, and St. 
Louis, respectively.
All three coaches have had success in 
the past, and will definitely improve ticket 
sale. Vermeil has assembled a pretty im
pressive staff for the Rams, and despite 
being out of coaching -for more than 12 
years, Vermeil has been in constant con
nection with college football where he 
served as an analyst. It will be interesting 
to see what Reeves will do now that he has 
total control of his team. The Falcons might 
drop their run and shoot offense as Reeves 
employs a more conventional offense. 
Ditkas return will probably mean the 
return of Saturday Night Lives Da Bears 
skit which will probably be change to Da 
Saints. Other than that and the selling of 
some extra tickets, I cannot see Ditka 
doing much with Saints. Today he is 
more of a celebrity than a head 
coach.
The best head coach hired was 
Bobby Ross by the Detroit Lions. 
He left San Diego to replace 
Wayne Fontes, who should have 
been terminated a long, long time 
ago. Ross should do wonders with 
the talent he has on Detroit. Look 
for Detroit to be one the top teams 
in the NFC next year. The ChargPlease see NFL, page 11
Scoreboard
i
Mens Basketball - UAA
TeamW-LPet. OverallPet.
Chicago8-1.889 154.789
NYU7-3.700 16-5.762
Washington U.6-3.667 14-6.700
Rochester6-4.600 12-7.632
Emory3-7.300 9-10.474
Carnegie Mellon3-7.300 8-12.400
Brandeis1-9.100 4-13.235
*-Johns Hopkins4-4.500 15-5.750
*-Case Reserve4-4.500 11-10.524
Chicago 71, CMU 44; Washington U. 79, CMU 64
This Week: Friday -CMU at Emory, 8 pm.
Womens Basketball - UAA
TeamW-LPet. OverallPet.
NYU9-1.900 17-1.944
Emory8-2.800 14-5.737
Washington U.7-2.778 16-4.800
Chicago3-6.333 10-9.526
Rochester3-7.300 11-9.550
Carnegie Mellon3-7.300 9-11.450
Brandis2-8.200 7-10.412
*-Johns Hopkins5-3.625 17-3.850; V i
*-Case Reserve2-6.250 9-12.429
Chicago 53, CMU43; Washington U. 62, CMU 39
This Week: Friday Friday CMU at Emory, 6 pm;
*-Not eligible for UAA title
Hockey Club - WPCHA, West Division
TeamW-L-TPts.GFGA
Allegheny7-0-1154916
Pitt7-2-0145231
Carnegie Mellon6-3-0125024
IUP5-4-0102836
Slippery Rock4-6-2104351
Robert Morris2-8-154160
Edinboro0-8-002166
CMU 12, Edinboro 7
This Week: Saturday, versus U Pitt, at Neville, 8 pm.
wanted
JOBS
(1) Assistant Sports Editor
Make money, learn style, 
enjoy many other benefits 
too numerous to list.
lovethe
WHO WILL:Tartan.
oieSm rieeum rinB m?iiIm 
lIIleierm ue ?iiTiez Bnr'Uimclassified
By CHRIS CANNON
Tartan Sports Editor
Its the best start weve had 
in a long time, tennis head 
coach Peter Moss said of the 6 
lmens tennis team. In the seven 
years that he has been at Carnegie 
Mellon, coach Moss said that this 
is the best start that one of his 
teams has ever had. The team is 
pretty solid, Moss said.
The team added to its 3-1 record
freshman Apurvu Kotharis 
singles match-up as the sole con
test remaining.
First of all I didnt know it was 
a tie, Kothari said of his decid
ing of his deciding match. I won 
the first set pretty easily. The 
second [set] was pretty tough. 
Kothari won the first set 6-1 and 
the second 6-4. I just went for it 
and I won.
After the close call with 
Mercyhurst, the Tartans went on
I didnt know it was a tie. I won the 
first set pretty easily. The second 
[set] was pretty tough.
 Apurvu Kothari 
freshman tennis player
from a the fall season by defeating 
Mercyhurst on Friday and win
ing matches against Edinboro 
and Gannon Saturday. According 
to team captainNvroze Marshall, 
for the tennis team the Fall por
tion of its schedule is very much 
ike a pre-season.
Its been a good start so far, 
said Marshall, a junior. We beat 
three Division II competitions. 
Weve never beaten 
Mercyhurst, coach Moss said. 
Theyre a powerhouse in Divi
sion II.
, Dual tennis matches compete 
ln six singles and three doubles 
Co>npetitions, best two out of 
toree sets. Against Mercyhurst, 
match was tied 4-4 with
to beat Edinboro 7-2 and sweep 
Gannon 9-0.
It promises to be a pretty 
good season, Marshall said of 
the team. The captain often al
ternates with sophomore Dean 
Ho as the teams top player. We 
switch it around a bit, [but] he 
will probably be playing num
ber one the rest of the season, 
said Marshall.
Its shaping up pretty well, 
Kothari said of the team. Its 
pretty deep.
Were seven strong, were not 
weak at any position, said Moss 
of the teams depth. In past sea
sons, a lack of depth has hurt 
the team, particularly in the 
doubles matches. The depth of
this years squad has turned 
what was previously a weak
ness into a strength.
We usually lost points [in the 
doubles], nowwewin those points, 
thats why were 61, Moss said.
The team started playing this 
semester in February, this 
weekends matches was their first 
action this semester. Their next 
match is March 1 at Oberlin Col
lege. The womens team will also 
be in action at Oberlin. Both teams 
will be looking to improve head
ing into a, week of matches over 
Spring Break later in the season. 
The teams will travel to Hilton 
Head, South Carolina and remain 
there from March 23 until March
29. The last time the men played, 
before this past weekend, was a 
three match tournament at Roch
ester in late October. They prac
tice at the University of Pitts
burgh, but only twice a week.
Ive got the nets ready to go up 
when the weather breaks, said 
Moss. The players will be able to 
practice everyday on CMUs out
door courts.
I think we should be pretty 
tough, Marshall said, predict
ing that the team should finish 
in the top four at the University 
Athletic Association champion
ships, which will be held at 
Emory. The last two seasons the 
team has lost close matches in 
the opening round, which makes 
it hard place well. Only players 
that advance in the tournament 
can continue to score points to
wards their team.
I think we can do it, Marshall 
said.
COMPUTERS
Packard Bell, multimedia,
486DX25, 8 megs ram, 4x CDRom, 200 meg HD, 8 -bit sound 
card. With modem, stereo 
speaker, mouse, and keyboard. MS 
Works + Publisher + other software. 
$600 OBO. 683-6303, leave 
message.
HOUSING
South Hills Apartments. $99
move in special. All utilities 
included. 1, 2, &3, bedroom apts. 
On busline. Call 892-2020.
JOBS
Highly motivated and outgoing
student or recent grad wanted 
immediately for a part time 
position with Student Advantage, a 
national college marketing 
company. Short or long term, 
flexible hours, great experience, 
pays well, (215) 386-9916 or Email Ari@studentadvantage.com.
Part time nanny needed. Penn 
Hills area. 241-7469.
Cruise & Land-Tour employment
- Industry offers travel (Hawaii, 
Mexico, Caribbean), incomparable 
benefits, & good pay. Find out 
how to start the application 
process now. Cruise Employment 
services provides the answers. Call 
800-276-4948 ext. C52361. (we 
are a research & publishing 
company)
Eastern Europe Employment -
Teach basic conversational English in 
Prague, Budapest, or Krakow. Our 
materials uncover many rewarding 
teaching opportunities with great 
benefits. For information: (206) 971 - 
3680 ext. K52362. ( we are a 
research & publishing company).
College financial aid - Student 
Financial Services profiles over 
200,000+ individual scholarships, 
grants, loans, and fellowships - from 
private & government funding 
sources. A must for anyone seeking 
free money for college. 1 -800-263- 
6495 ext. F52361. (we are a 
research & publishing company)
Child care/Nanny. Do you like 
working with children? RENT-AMOM Inc., the leading child care 
referral service in the Pittsburgh area, 
has several after school and vacation
ing parent positions available. 
Temporary jobs that work around 
your schedule. Must have car and 2 
yrs experience with children. Great 
for students. Call 369-9113
SALES
Flowers for birthday, anniversary,
romantic, platonic, and more...Alex's 
Flowers...687-4128 or 687- 
ALEX..Delivery.
TRAVEL
Low student and faculty fares to
international destinations. Good 
domestic fares, AYH, and Eurail 
passes. 9-5 M-F, 10-Noon Saturday.
4608 Winthrop Street. Off South 
Craig. Forum Travel 681-4099.
Expand your resume, expand 
your mind. See the World. Visit 
stock exchanges in Eastern Europe 
Explore castles in Prague. Sample 
the wines of Budapest. Great price. 
Meeting on campus soon. Call 
477-8221
Mexico/Caribbean 5189 RT. 
Europe $169 OW & world wide 
destinations cheap!! If you can 
beat these prices, start your own 
damn airline. Air-Tech, Ltd. 212- 
219-7000. info@aerotech.com. 
http://campus.net/aerotech.
Classified Rates
1-20 words..........J10.00/wk
21-50 words..........$12.00/wk
51-100 words.......$15.00/wk
MAIL TO:
The Tartan, Box! 7 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
Classifieds must be paid in cash or 
check before first run date
On-campus departments and 
organizations may pay by journal 
transfer
Due by 5 pm the Thursday before 
publication
THE TARTAN 
268-2111

---------------------------------------------------

The coach
Volume 91, Issue 17The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania17 February 19
5000-meter runner 
qualifies for NCAAs
By PAUL BOOTHE
Tartan Personnel Manager
ling the Track and Field Champion
ships next, and she doesnt seem to 
have found the limit on just how fast 
Sophomore cross-country star she can go.
Maureen McGranaghan became the Two Saturdays ago, McGranaghan finfirst womens cross country All Ameri- ishedthe5,000-meterrunattheBucknell
Shes kind of in uncharted territory for 
herself right now. 
 Dario Donatelli 
women's track head coach
can in the history of Carnegie Mellon 
University as last Fall she finished in 
29th place at the NCAA Division III 
Cross Country Championships in 
18:31. The 28 people who ran faster 
than her on the cross- country course 
may want to take a close look at their 
training schedules, because she is tackLlsette Mlller-Dlxon/Tartan Photo Staff 
Runner Maureen McGranaghan.
University Winter Classic in 17:53.7. 
This time not only earned her a firstplace finish against strong Division I 
competition, it also qualified her for com
petition at the NCAA Division IE Indoor 
Track and Field Championships.
It was definitely a goal, said 
McGranaghan of qualifing for the na
tionals championships.
Maureen ran about what I thought 
she could run, said womens head 
coach Dario Donatelli. According to 
Donatelli, McGranaghan had to go 
to a Division I meet to find the level 
of competition that could pace her 
for most of the distance and force her 
to run faster. Even then, the other 
runners could only give 
McGranaghan a real race for the 
first two miles  she ran the last 
mile completely by herself.
The 5000 requires you to keep a 
really even pace, McGranaghan said. 
I had the people to pace me.
It was the fastest shes ever run ... 
by 25 seconds, said Donatelli. Shes 
kind of in uncharted territory for her
self right now. According to weekly 
updated statistics, McGranaghan has 
the fifth-fastest time among Division 
Please see QUALIFIED, page 12
Blocked!
oieSm ylffiqpnff zclIm Duyiwmir UincrpcinTic rl Hieiyn
By RYAN SCHILLING
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
In a very intense set of games, the 
CMU mens volleyball team fell to the 
visiting Geneva Golden Tornadoes three 
games to two. Coach Dennis Jensen 
said, We play really well as a team. 
The one big problem were having is 
that we cant keep up our level of inten
sity. This was evident many times 
throughout the afternoon as sometimes 
the Tartans would be unstoppable, and 
then other times Geneva was able to do 
whatever they wanted.
The first game was fairly even, but 
CMU fell short in the end losing 15-11. 
The second game began as the first 
ended, but the Tartans came back from 
deficits of 3-6 and 6-10 to win 15-11 
behind strong play and boisterous cheer
ing from the bench. In the third game 
they started off slow down 7-1, but even
tually scored nine unanswered points to 
win 15-11.
We started off a little slow at times, 
but we managed to pick it up especially 
at the end of the last two, said starting 
setter Dwight Lee. The slow starts and 
strong finishes certainly did continue in 
the final two games. Geneva was up 12- 
4 before CMU picked up their intensity 
cutting that lead to 13-11. However, 
they surrendered two more points to the 
Golden Tornadoes to lose 15-11 forcing
serves but also on 
changes of posses
sion. It was a very 
close game
throughout, but the 
Tartans faltered in 
the end losing 
again to the score 
of 15-11.
Intensity level 
was a common 
theme for the Tar
tans for the entire 
afternoon. The 
bench seemed to 
be just as much a 
part of the game 
as the men on the 
court. Not one of 
them ever sat 
down during all 
five games, and 
they were always 
encouraging and 
cheering as loud as 
possible. As if to 
back this up, two 
of the three men I 
interviewed were 
a bit hoarse. Lee 
commented on the 
reason they do 
this: It makes it more exciting for us. 
When you hear the bench cheering for 
us, you just step right up.
Overall, if were playing at our top level 
theres no one in our conference that can 
with us. 
 Dennis Jensen 
mens club volleyball head coach
hang
a game five. The fifth game of a volley
ball set is a sudden death match, mean
ing that points are scored not only off
It makes it more exciting for the 
fans in the stands as well. One can 
hardly help but try to be as loud as the
LIsette Miller-DIxon/Tartan Photo Staff Tartans go for the block yesterday afternoon.
team to show your support, and it was. 
truly an experience to watch their 
amazing team spirit, something that 
is not as often seen these days. It even 
pumped up the opposition. They1  
no choice, or else they would 
been drowned out the Tartans.
One could argue that this is not 
good thing for CMU men, but it 
tainly adds to the excitement.
Lee said they decided on this tyj 
team play with the arrival of 
coach all the way back in 
when they began practicing, 
said of the team, Its not a varsity; 
sport so these guys are really putting 
Please see VOLLEYBALL, page
Club team holds off Edinboro in hockey shootout
By JESSICA STRELITZ
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
It was never a contest, said Coach 
Fred Maddalena of the CMU ice hockey 
clubs 12-7 win over Edinboro on Satur
day night. With senior Ray Ardire gar
nering five goals (a hat trick in the first 
period) and senior Relja Ivanovic gath
ering four goals and one assist, this 
team looks like a scoring machine. But it 
wasnt as easy as it all seemed.
CMU jumped to an easy lead, going up
2-0 in the first two minutes off of Ardires 
first two goals (on his first two shifts), 
and then adding to it minutes later with 
sophomore Steve Leonhardts goal from 
the third line combination of junior Derek 
Jander and sophomore Andy Oxnard. In 
control for most of the period, CMU 
increased the tally with Ardires second 
unassisted goal of the period with six
seconds left. Edinboro limped to the 
bench sucking wind. And CMU got cocky.
We always play badly against these 
guys; we got greedy and ended up giv
ing them opportunities for goals, which 
we dont normally do. We end up mak
ing them (Edinboro) looking like a first 
class team, commented Coach 
Maddalena. Although Ivanovic scored 
the first goal of the second period, on a 
well-positioned pass from rookie for
ward PJ Grzywacz, CMUs defensive 
unit opened up the ice for the Edinboro 
attack. They capitalized by scoring 
three quick goals on starting goalie 
rookie Gil Min. Ivanovic scored again, 
from rookie Rio Ota and grad student 
defenseman Blair Echols. The defense 
fought back, with junior defenseman 
Dave Mitzel scoring to make the score 
7-3 CMU, Scott (Fitzgerald) took a 
perfectly clean face-off and drew it to
me. I took a slap shot and one of their 
players deflected it into the top of the 
net. It was Mitzels fourth goal of the 
year and one of Fitzgeralds four as
sists on the night.
The seniors continued to roll. Ardire 
scored his fourth of the game to end the 
period with CMU ahead 8-4. Senior An
thony Paul started out the second period 
by scoring from Ivanovic, then returned 
the favor, joined by Matt Williams, by 
assisting on Ivanovics third goal minutes 
later. But the defense continued to struggle 
and Edinboro scored two more. Mitzel 
added, I didnt think that we played that 
badly, but we gave up a lot of goals. Once 
we started blowing them out, we gave up 
on some of our defensive intensity.
Ivanovic and Ardire rounded out the 
game the brilliant way that they started 
it. Ivanovic scored on a pretty solo play 
Please see SHOOTOUT, page 11CMU players celebrate after a goal.Anthony Chao/Tartan Photo Editor
.llI rinB mbDDicm rlbtU clnz flmmim
By CAREY LEFKOWITZ
Tartan Junior Staffwriter 
& CHRIS CANNON
Tartan Sports Editor
The womens basketball team 
took two hard road losses, 62-39 
yesterday afternoon and 53-43 
to Chicago on Friday.
' The Chicago contest was a 
streaky affair. The Tartans scored 
the first eight points before the 
Bears went on a 17-2 run to es
tablish a 17-10 lead. CMU scored 
the next seven points to tie the 
game.
The teams exchanged buckets 
and remained tied at 22 with 4:22 
remaining in the half. The rest of 
the frame would prove crucial, as 
Chicago ran off the last ten points 
of the period to boast a 32-22 
advantage at half-time.
Poor free-throw shooting 
would doom the Tartans chance 
for a comeback. CMU went 0-10 
from the charity stripe in the 
second half.
Against Washington U. it ap
peared that the Tartans had a 
chance to win. The team hung 
around for a while, only trailing
17-14 with less than eight min
utes left in the first half. But a 
three-pointer by freshman Sherry 
Cribbins, a putback by freshman 
Sam Majernik, and a short 
jumper from sophomore Katie 
OLeary would be the only points 
the Tartans could 
manage for the 
rest of the half.
Chicago on the 
other hand, 
reeled off another 
17 points.
CMU would 
never recover in 
the second half as 
Washington U. 
slowly extended 
its lead into a 
rout.
Majernik 
scored 20 of the 
teams 39 points 
on 8-13 shooting 
in just 24 min
utes. She also 
lead the team in 
rebounds with 
seven and three 
steals. The rest of 
the team went 7
46 shooting, including just 2-24 
in the second half.
Meanwhile, 11 players scored 
for Washington U., including two 
in double figures. CMU was 
outrebounded 54-31, including 
20-19 on their own defensive
glass. Both teams shot poorly from 
the free throw line, with Chicago 
at 56 percent and CMU at 46 
percent. The Tartans forced the 
opponent into more turnovers 
than they gave up.They commit
ted 20 turnovers to CMUs 16.
Brian Smith/Tartan Photo Staff
Sarah Dunn tries to get a jumper to fall in conference play.
8'lcuet 
'leruebi
By CAREY LEFKOWITZ
Tartan Junior Staffwriter 
& CHRIS CANNON
Tartan Sports Editor
CMUs men basketball team 
suffered two road losses in con
ference play this weekend, 71- 
44 to Chicago and 77-62 to 
Washington U. In the Chicago 
game, the opponents jumped 
out to huge early leads of 22-5 
and 27-9.
Once we fell down early, it 
was hard for us to bounce back, 
said senior Rich Bodnar.
The Tartans scored nine 
straight after to close the lead 
to 27-18, but couldnt hold on 
as they trailed by double digits 
the rest of the game. CMUs 
first four field goals were scored 
by senior Gary Trendel, but the 
center wouldnt score again in 
the half.
The Tartans went ice cold in 
the second half, shooting just 
23.1 percent from the field and
were held to just two points 
over a ten minute stretch. 
Weve had a couple of dry spells 
in previous games and it really 
drags us down. We thought we 
had solved those against NYU 
and Brandeis, Bodnar said, re
ferring to the teams recent wins 
over those teams. [Chicago! 
ran a switching defense and we 
were just making bad cuts cuts 
and. taking bad shots. '
We werent making the 
moves we shouldve, Bodnai' 
said. Players just werent in 
the offensive plays.
Meanwhile, Chicago used a 
balanced attack to do in CMU, 
as four of their players finished 
in double figures.
[They had] three or four guy 5 
who could really shoot well, 
[they were] tough to guard, 
the senior captain said.
Trendel lead the team in scor
ing and rebounding with ten in 
each category.
Please see TROUBLES, page 12

---------------------------------------------------

Volume 91, Issue 17The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania17 February 1997
(412)1) -2)DAIL Y,4W 2E -2KM4)M )D,1) ,E OINDT)
By TRACY ODELL
Tartan Diversions Editor
Artists express themselves in many different 
ways, so it is only fitting that they should have 
equally varied options for displaying their work. 
Besides the larger gallery spaces such as Hewlett 
Gallery or The Frame, the campus offers many 
smaller spaces, including hallways, display cases, 
and small studios 
for artists to dis
play their work.
Art majors, art 
minors, and
bachelor of hu
manities and arts 
candidates may 
set up exhibits in 
Ellis Gallery, a 
one- room space 
on the third floor 
of the College of 
Fine Arts.
Kathryn Sitter, 
undergraduate 
student affairs 
coordinator in 
the Art Depart
ment and also an 
alumnus of the 
department, said 
Ellis Gallery has 
the charge of be
ing an alterna
tive space to dis
play nontraditional forms of 
art.
Gabriel Colwell-LaFleur painted the walls 
of Ellis during a recent show.
Debbie Houben, freshman art 
major, says of Ellis, I love the 
place because you can do anything 
you want in it. In the past, stu
dents have created on-site instal
lations in the space. Last weeks 
exhibit by Edith Pong, a junior 
industrial managment major and 
art minor, featured Chinese char
acters painted on and cov
ering the walls of the gal
lery. She said, those char
acters were some words 
that people talked about a 
lot in Hong Kong. I had 
also included some of my 
feeling in there.
On the same floor as 
Ellis, the hallways are 
covered with continually 
changing displays of stu
dent work. Classes use 
the space to display ex
amples of the work done 
by their class members.
Students can display 
their art work in the dis
play cases of CFA, the base
ment of Doherty Hall 
the fourth floor of Hunt Li
brary. This lack of interest may possibly be 
attributed ot the vandalism that occured 
last semester to the doors securing the 
space or the displays secluded location. 
Anyone, regardless of their major or affili
ation, may show their work in the Doherty 
or Hunt display cases.
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Contributing Editor
The UC Gallery displayed several 
or students's work last week.
way of Posner Hall, is often 
filled with paintings and draw
ings. The space, maintained 
by a committee of graduate 
students, displays work by art
ists both from within the Uni
versity and those from the com
munity.
The University Center Gal
lery offers artists a more 
structured and polished 
environment to display 
their work. In order to 
maintain its pristine ap
pearance, the gallery has 
stringent guidelines on 
how students may dis
play their work, such as 
not putting nails in the 
walls. The UC Gallery 
differentiates itself from 
other campus art show
cases not only through 
its professional atmo
sphere, but also because 
it is run by administra
tors, not artists, and al
lows non-art majors to 
have shows.
Perhaps the least con
sidered space to display artwork is not a 
gallery or hallway, but simply the outdoors. 
According to Sitter, [The Art Department] is 
trying to encourage students to think about 
the implications of displaying art outdoors 
for the community.
Exterior art is becoming more prevelant on
assembled. This week an artist will install one of 
these outdoor works. Sitter describes the piece, a 
sundial, as  a small intimate piece that wont jump 
out at you.
Whether an artist or an art admirer, these 
hidden displays may be worth checking outi 
Some are only available to be used by art stu
dents, but all are able to be viewed by anyone 
with curiousity and an admiration for art.
*
The Gallery, located in the central hall- campus with several pieces a year being
Andrew McDermott/ Tartan Contributing Editor 
Edith Pong painted Chinese characters on the walls of Ellis 
Gallery last week.
Student gallery opens with new name
By BECCA FRIBUSH poetry readings. In fact, ever since it Dave White, whose work was feaTartan Staffwriter reopenedthis semester with a new name, tured in last weeks show. And its
a new image, and more publicity, The nice to have the opportunity to fill up 
Whats in a name? The student-run Frames attendance has skyrocketed. this space. 
art gallery at the corner of Forbes and The Frame is the only art space on The gallery is in a prime location, 
Margaret Morrison began life as the campus run by students and devoted said Sacasa, which means that evForbes Gallery, but has metamorphosized entirely to showing student work, which eryone from CMU can come and enjoy 
into The Frame as part of an effort to cut gives these students rare opportunities the events, and the community can, 
a larger profile on campus.
As sophomore art major 
Enrique Sacasa, publicity 
director of The Frame, ex
plained, the change to a 
more hip, more accessible 
name forms a vital part of 
the art spaces new image.
The name, he said, incorpo
rates the desire of the gal
lery to showcase more nontraditional art, such as threedimensional and interdisci
plinary works. According to 
Sacasa, the gallery is focus
ing on art that has come off 
of the walls  off of the 
frame  so that the space 
[itself] could serve as a 
framing device.
Sacasa cites a recent show,
Inner Space, Outer Space,
the Five Senses, and the Future as an ness end of the art world. Gallery lead- related to the International Festival, 
example of art that requires a whole ership includes directors, Shaunach
room to frame it properly. This exhibit Talley,juniorBHAmajor, and Gretchen A reception for the artists takes 
featured paintings and sculptures side- Dematera, a junior social and decision place from 7 to 9 pm on the Friday 
by-side with installations, performance sciences major, Sacasa, the publicity evening of the shows run these re
art, and poetry readings. Not surpris- director and Karla Turcios, a senior art ceptions are open to the public. All 
lngly, Sacasa said that the Friday major, the business director. Artists en- students, no matter their academic 
evening reception for this show attracted joy the freedom The Frame allows them affiliation,are welcome to fill out a 
a crowd, more people than weve ever as well. This is a much larger venue proposal to be considered for use of the 
had in the gallery ... there were people than most art students will have a chance space. Proposal forms are available in 
standing on the stairs listening to the to work with, said senior art major the art office.
to gain real-life experience in the busiCourtesy of Seldon Yuan 
The Frame offers weekly exhibits of student art.
too. Exhibits change every week, en
suring plenty of opportu
nities for those who want 
to display their work, and 
lots of variety for those 
who just want to visit.
The Frame has big 
plans for the rest of this 
semester, including 
Sofrito II, curated by 
Turcios, which will show
case Latin American art 
students, and is currently 
preparing its schedule for 
next semester. While con
tinuing its focus on inter
disciplinary performancebased work, the staff of 
The Frame also hope to 
have shows that tie in 
with other events on cam
pus, such as an exhibit

---------------------------------------------------

8.EV ciIcimierm 
soG enrulenffq
By SUSIE CRIBBS
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
In a convention center in 
Philadelphia three weeks ago, 
2000 members of the Society of 
Hispanic Professional Engi
neers (SHPE) gathered for their 
national competition consist
ing of an innovative design con
test and technical paper con
test. Among these 2,000 were 
the 30 representatives from 
Carnegie Mellons chapter of 
SHPE  its largest group to 
date. Not only were they large 
in number, but their achieve
ments are worthy of note.
In order to be selected for 
the national competition, the 
group had to submit plans for 
each of their designs. After 
this, two items in each cat
egory were selected to com
pete. These innovative prod
ucts and papers had practical 
uses, such as the wake ma
chine which elimintates over
sleeping and a fast blackboard 
cleaner. The group who de
signed the wake machine re
ceived fifth place, and Erich 
Velandia, a sophomore elec
trical and computer engineer
ing major, received second 
place on his technical paper.
Competition was not the only 
aspect of the four day SHPE na
tionals. The other three days in
cluded activits such as an aca
demic Olympiad, various work
shops, and an awards banquet. 
The event culminated in a career 
fair, where there were represen
tatives from over 200 companies 
and organizations.
But the competition has of
fered more to SHPE and its 
members than the mere dis
tinction of placing. When 
SHPE first began in 1992, ac
cording to President Andrew 
Flores, a senior mechanical en
gineering major, it was a small 
group of friends. It had a mem
bership of 28 and meetings 
brought out six or seven mem
bers. Upon going to the na
tional competition his fresh
man year, Flores saw the mag
nitude and opportunity for the 
organization. I wanted to show 
everyone that it was something 
a lot bigger, said Flores.
Since 1992, SHPE has grown 
to have a membership of 50 and 
average at least 20 members per 
meeting. In addition to size, they 
have also grown in recognition 
and aid from the faculty and 
staff here at CMU. Dean of Stu
dent Affairs Michael Murphy, 
Robert Kail, dean of CIT, Presi
dent Mehrabian, and Provost 
Paul Christiano have been ex
tremely supportive of the groups 
endeavors in the past. This year, 
however, they were able to re
ceive financial support from the 
Director of Undergraduate In
dustrial Management Program, 
Claudia Kirkpatrick, and Mark 
Stehlik, assistant dean of Un
dergraduate Education.
The group has also given 
something back to CMU. In the 
first years of attending the na
tional competitions, Carnegie 
Mellon was a virtual unknown. 
[The Universitys name] was 
always followed by Carnegie 
Please see SHPE, page L3
8IinTic iefutUriem soG mrbzierm
By ANDREW WANG
Tartan Staffwriter
What happens if you take a 
young boy and immerse him in 
an environment where crime 
and corruption are an integral 
part of everyday life  where 
there is no hope, opportunity, 
or incentive for anything bet
ter? Last Wednesday, Carl 
Upchurch, a product of that en
vironment, spoke in McConomy 
Auditorium as part of the AB 
Political Speakers Series in or
der to paint a picture of the 
underlying forces at play in the 
lives of the inner-city Africanthat produced that kind of African-American male, said 
Upchurch.
He added that it is this con
veyor belt which manufactures 
the delinquent inner-city youth 
who lead a life of crime and cor
ruption. The components of this 
machine are the cultural and in
stitutional oppression and rac
ism enforced by society, kept welloiled by a lack of positive rolemodels, the escape of upwardly 
mobile African-Americans from 
the inner city communities, and 
self-hatred.
As an example, Upchurch 
cited the number of adult AfRight now we have a tremendous 
boulder on the shoulders of our Afri
can-American youth. 
 Carl Upchurch, author
American youth.
At the age of nine, Upchurch 
became an elementary school 
dropout fighting for survival on 
the streets of Philadelphia. He 
grew to be a gang member wed
ded to a life of violence and 
then a bank robber facing a 
future in federal penitentiaries. 
Now he is a respected commu
nity organizer with degrees in 
literature and psychology, and 
author of Convicted in the 
Womb, a book which details the 
underlying problems of innercity African American youth. 
He is currently at the end of his 
travels across the country 
speaking to different commu
nities about civil rights and ur
ban youth.
There is in our culture what I 
would refer to as a conveyor belt.
I was immersed into a system
rican-American males in 
maximum security prisons, 
which rose from 80,000 in 1980 
to 1.5 million today, meaning 
that about one in four African-American males will end 
up in prison.
Why are we only putting poor 
people on death row, but not 
the rich? Why do we only ex
ecute people who kill white 
people? he asked.
Upchurch noted that people 
from healthier backgrounds 
often judge inner-city AfricanAmerican youth by their own 
moral standards. However, 
Upchurch said that in bad ur
ban environments, the moral 
standards that the youth de
velop are very different and 
perhaps a legacy of the men
tality of their ancestors who 
were slaves.
After a childhood on the inner-city streets, Carl Upchurch now speaks 
about the problems that urban life causes for African-American youth.
Niggers are manufactured. 
No one is born as a nigger, said 
Upchurch.
He discussed the history of 
slavery  how slaves were 
manufactured by destroying 
the mentality and will of a 
once-free people to make them 
do things a normal human be
ing would not do, to accept in
humane treatment, and to be 
limited in their intellectual 
and social advancement. Ac
cording to Upchurch, the con
veyor belt which manufactures 
the delinquent youth today is 
the process which manufacPlease see UPCHURCH, page L5
8i'cirncq lD 8rnri ci'nffm Uic cllrm zbcuet Llezle rlbc
LONDON, Feb. 16 (Reuter)  The 
studious Czech child who whiled away 
the war in British air raid shelters 
returns to London this week as prob
ably the worlds most powerful 
woman.
Fifty years ago, few couldhave guessed 
that Maria Jana Korbelova, one girl 
among the stateless throng, would grow 
into Madeleine Albright, the first fe
male U.S. Secretary of State.
Yet Albright, a known hawk, thanks 
her London days for helping teach her 
the ABCs of diplomacy: lessons of war 
and appeasement that still hold true 
for her job today.
My childhood understanding of life 
under a totalitarianist threat has al
ready left me with very firm beliefs 
about the requirements of a free soci
ety, one of which is freedom of reli
gion, she said recently.
Her trip back to London will be no 
sentimental journey. Albright arrives 
in London on Tuesday evening and 
leaves early on Thursday, part of a a 
whirlwind tour of major European and 
Asian capitals typical of her no-non
sense approach to work. She is due to 
see Prime Minister John Major and 
other officials.
Its such a short visit and its her 
first one as secretary of state so I dont 
think youll be seeing visits to child
hood homes or schools. You have to 
take care of business first and she has 
an awful lot of business to do, a U.S. 
spokesman said.
But Albright spent key years in Lon
don and traces of her time here remain. 
Old school reports and aging teachers, 
fond friends and hazy memories have
been dug up across London.
Interest in each piece.of her youth has 
soared after newspaper revelations that 
the Czech Catholic who became a U.S. 
Episcopalian was in fact from Jewish 
stock all along.
Albright said she was shocked to 
hear her family was Jewish and that 
relatives had pe'rished in the Holo
caust. Some say she had repeatedly 
turned her back on those who tried to 
tell her.
I can only think her reaction is that of 
a person who moves to a new country, 
changes citizenship, and so, naturally 
enough, wants to draw a line over her 
past life, said Dagmar Sila, a cousin 
who survived the war in the Korbelovas 
London house.
Obviously she does not want a rela
tionship with me. It did hurt but I got
over it, Sima said in one interview.
Though Albright is not keen to dwell 
on her past, her European roots are a 
key part of her steely diplomacy.
Born in Prague 59 years ago, 
Albright says her political life was 
molded by the diplomatic appease
ment of Adolf Hitler at Munich and 
by the experience of Londons sirens 
and shelters.
Her family fled Czechoslovakia in 
1939 and stayed in Britain right through 
the war.
I remember the war distinctly, she 
said in a recent interview. I remember 
what it was like to come out of the air 
raid shelter and see London bombed.
She was a serious child but unre
markable: slipshod at sums, good at 
reading, and excellent at singing. 
Cod liver oil was taken in daily doses
- she remembers the taste to this day
 and play was under steel tables for 
fear of bombs.
Her uniform was all cherry red and 
pleats and the ambitious would-be dip
lomat set up international relations clubs 
at every school she joined. Not surpris
ingly, she was always boss.
Because I started it, I would become 
its president. Im sure some of my friends 
thought me very boring, but thats what
I was interested in so thats what I did, 
she said.
In 1945, she left for Belgrade be
fore enrolling at a Swiss boarding 
school (where she became Madeleine) 
and then on to Denver in 1948, when 
her American Dream started coming 
true.
Albright has recently been appointed 
as the first female Secretary of State.
AlEQULOPAQl RTRRAQlN Monday, February 24th, 7:00 pm 
in the University Center, Dowd Room 
QlIYOLMoR AlPTUiATvRN Tuesday, February 25th
H2)21 ,T4 YMR )21MS YYY.qTILO,NN.O,N
wdMpiagg
EQUAL OP PO RTUNITY EMPLOYER
LC MUi Mncrne a snceitui oiffle Geuyicmurq a xR vipcbncq xggR

---------------------------------------------------

MUi Mncrne a snceitui oiffle Geuyicmurq a xR vipcbncq xggR
slfbBeumr mrcimmim uBIlcrne'i lD mru'Tuet rl n IclBumi
The Player's Manual
by Amit N. Kar
There was this guy. He and his pals 
started doing questionable stuff to his 
neighbors. After some time, the other 
>le in the community started to get a 
jittle concerned, and then they got fright
ened and a little angry too. So, they all 
went over to the bad guys place and 
asked him to please stop doing nasty 
things to his neighbors. It was terribly 
awful that no one could stop the bad guy 
from doing nasty repugnant shit to his 
neighbors. After a little hooing and haw
ing, the bad guy promised to stop being 
i bad neighbor, going so far as to attach 
his signature to a written proclamation. 
He said if he could just be bad one more 
time, he would stop for ever and ever. He 
gave his word.
A few weeks later, Germany invaded 
Poland, and World War II started. 
Though it had its roots in problems lin
gering from the Great War, the Second 
World War actually started because some 
bastard gave his word without ever in
tending to keep it. This is a wee bit 
simplified and overwrought, but you get 
l the idea  when you dont keep your
SHPE wins 
recognition
SHPE, from page L2
who?  said Flores. [Now] every
one from the regional to national 
level knows us for our reputation 
and commitment at both the re
gional and national level. Were 
one of the movers and shakers of 
providing dynamics, he said.
SHPE has also been able to cre
ate a name for themselves and 
other CMU students among com
panies. According to treasurer 
Eduardo Gonzalez, a senior in
dustrial management major, a 
company representative saw that 
lie was from CMU and asked him 
to bring some of his friends to 
meet with her. A few new repre
sentatives at the Technical Op
portunities Conference were due 
to the networking of SHPE.
As a group, SHPE has undergone 
extreme growth, both in size and as 
solid unit. The performance at 
ationals has made the chapter 
lorelike a family. Everyone seems 
alittlemore friendly,said Gonzalez.
Their hope for the future is to con
tinue this expansion they have unone. We want to contribute 
more to the CMU community, said 
Victor Villones, a junior industrial 
managementmajor. Presently they 
are selling concessions for the Sat
urday and Sunday night movies.
This not only provides them with 
financial support, but makes them 
nore known to the people at CMU. 
According to President Flores, they 
lave so many plans and ideas right 
now that they are not able to do 
even half of them. It is that kind of 
potential that makes the organiza
tion special within itself, said 
Plores.
SHPE also feels that it has 
proven that CMU can be among 
;he top universities in perfor
mance while still maintaining di
versity. Even within the group 
frey display great diversitythey 
lre composed primarily of 
jispanics, but welcome people 
rom all ethnic groups. Engineertogas a major is not even a prereq
uisite. They have art, industrial 
Management, and computer sciince majors as well. SHPE recog
nizes the abilities that each type 
person contributes to make the 
foup more successful.
Though they would like more 
Cognition among students for 
toatthey do, SHPE consider themklves still small and young. By 
etting people know the magniude of the National Society of His,anic Professional Engineers,
'Ml?s chapter of SHPE hopes to 
ntinue its growth in size, sendng increased numbers to national 
inventions, andcontributingmore 
k &e CMU community.
word, nasty things happen.
Todays discussion is on the impor
tance of keeping your word  making a 
promise with the firm intention of keep
ing it or not making a promise at all. 
Think about the people you know, your 
friends, your coworkers, and ask your
self how much faith you really have in 
their word. Is their pride attached to 
fulfilling a commitment? Remember The 
Catcher in the Rye? Remember how 
Holden Caulfields petpeeve is that no 
one ever says Hi to another person 
when asked to? Aint that the truth?
Perhaps Im guilty of holding people 
to too high a standard, but I think 
there is a general trend towards for
giving a promise broken or a word not 
kept too easily. Perhaps Im too at
tached to yesterdays concepts of pride 
and integrity, but I think people let 
themselves off too lightly nowadays. 
But Im convinced the words we use to 
express ourselves to eachother comprise 
the very medium that binds people to
gether and allow us to have confidence 
in human interaction. If this is true, 
then leaving a date waiting is just as 
fundamentally dissappointing as fail
ure to meet your boss expectations  a 
broken word, any broken word, calls 
into question the most basic component 
of secular faith.
Making every effort to follow through 
on a commitment is, obviously, critical in 
the workplace. In todays highly competi
tive job market, employers are very un
likely to tolerate a task completed late or 
one which fails to meet certain standards. 
If you promise to walk the bosss dog, play
tennis with a client, or cover a coworkers 
ass, you had better do it. Advancement in 
the workplace will be determined, largely, 
based on how hard you work to fulfill your 
promises. But, as I said, this is obvious  
everyone needs to eat.
What isnt as obvious is that you 
shouldnt expect your friends to let you 
off when you dont keep your word to 
them. As usual, the illustrative example 
at the beginning is an exaggerated one. 
However, what you must keep in mind is 
that there will be friends who, at one
time or another, will rely on your word, 
who will commit to emotions or plans 
based on what you say. Some of these 
people will likely be inconvenienced, 
hurt, or angered if you fail them. Id say 
its better not to find out who these 
people are, but Id be lying; a really good 
friend will be more likely to let you have 
it when you mess up. This isnt the same 
thing as choosing not to forgive  it is 
simply choosing to hold your peers to a 
standard of behavior.
Does the diminishing importance of a
persons word mean, then, that we are  
in general not as good at being friends  
or working in conjunction as we were,  
or should be? Im inclined to think so.  
When you can beam all your work in  
via your computer, its far easier to  
dismiss a harsh reaction from a slighted  
coworker than when you have to face  
him or her in person.
But its not all about the fear of hurting others  you need to keep your 
interests in mind too. A promise made  
hesitantly can often end up doing little  
more than causing inconvenience and 
irritation. If youre the kind of person 
who often finds yourself burdened by 
making too many commitments, you 
can often end up resenting yourself as 
well as the people for whom you are 
putting yourself out.
The issue here is not about learning a 
skill or taking some kind of action. 
Rather, it is simply about thought. When 
you find yourself on the verge of com- . 
mitting to something, think about 
whether or not you can actually follow it 
through  think about whether or not 
you actually care. If, later, you find 
yourself failing to keep your word, think 
about what the other person is feeling 
 think about how that should make 
you feel. And the next time, dont give 
your word lightly.
Amlt N. Kar/Tartan Contributing Editor
Amit N. Kar would like to apologize to 
the Egyptian Production dude for failing 
to go drinking with him this weekendI 
Next time, hell keep his word. In the 
meantime, Mr. Kar is simply hoping to 
make it to the gym at least twice this week.
Great
Weekend
Iran lvut'ierCa^ low as $109
d and United Airlines!
Tab Oi-V For The Vl <4
Ana "Reium 1 he rcllcvdn 
Gev ubdji)
\ cu Ike \
kend With United Airlines 
Monday Or Tuesday To 
jal Savings When 
ard Card.
Weekender Zone Fare CertificateEclBl slziN AV0027 
Mu'Tir OimutenrlcN AV0027 
Mcnyif slBIfiriN June 6.1997
Roundtrip Rates
Within Zone A or B 
Between Zone A & Zone B 
Between Zone A & Zone C 
Between Zone B 8. Zone C 
Wilhin Zone C
$129 roundtrip 
$189 roundtrip 
$269 roundtrip 
$189 roundtrip 
 S109 roundtrip
Noi valid lor Iravel to/lrom IL/CO/AK/Hl
Use Vour MasterCard Card 
For Grreat aving On United Airlines.
To make reservations, call United at 1-800-241-6522 
or your travel professional.
Please reference Weekender Zone Fare Certificate AV0027.
To enjoy these low Weekender Zone Fares - plus earn Mileage Plus 
credit on your trip - just call your travel prolessional or United to 
reserve your flight and redeem your certificate.
To receive these savings, use your MasterCard  card to purchase an 
E-Ticket':r between Feb 1. 1997 and-May 15.1997 for travel between 
Feb 15.1997 and June 6.1997. Outbound travel good on (lights depart
ing on Saturday. Return travel good oh flights returning the Monday follow
ing departure (An exception for travel between zones A-C. Return travel may 
also be on the Tuesday following departure)
Zone Definitions:
Zone A AL AR. CT. DC. DE. FL GA IA. IN. KY LA. MA. MD. ME
Ml. MM. MO. MS. NC. NH. NJ. NY, H. PA. Rl. SC. TN. VA VT. Wl. WV
Zone B - ID KS. MT. ND NE. NM. OK. SD. TX. UT WY
Zone C - AZ. CA. NV. OR. WA
Not valid for travel to/from IL/CO/AK/Hl.
TERMS AND CONDITIONS:
Promd Code: AVC027
Valid Carrier: Uniled Airlines/Shultle by United/United Express.
Valid Routing: Roundtrip Iravel must begin and end in the 48 contiguous Uniled 
Slates (IL/CO/AK/Hl excluded). All travel must be via Ihe rotiies 6l UA u which UA 
publishes Economy Class fares. One way travel/stooovers/circle trip/oper segments/ 
waitlisting/standby arc noi permitted. Open jaw permitled. (!L and CO excluded as 
origin/destination: however, connections Ihcugh CHI/DEN are permitled.)
Valid Ticket Dates: Feb 1 through May 15 1997.
Valid Travel Dates: Feb 15 through Juri 5.1997 Ail travel musi be ccmc'^e I?/ J n 6.1997 
Blackout Dales: 1997: Mar 22.29. Apr 5.12 Oulbcuncl travel must be on 'lights 
departing on Saturday, with return travel on Digits Ihc Monday following oeoarture. or 
the Tuesday following departure il he oassenger is travel rig betweer zones A-C 
Class ol Service: V class (Seats are capacity r.nntmltfid and must be available in the 
required booking invenlp'y at Ihe lime resections are confirmed)
Advance Purchase: Wilhin 24 nrs of makrg reseat 60s at least 14 days to 
Min/Max Slay: Saturday-n gtil slay minimum HfclUHN ihavEI MUST BE the IMMEDIATE MONDAY FOLLOWING DEPARTURE: AH EXCPrIGIJ FOR TRAVEL RETV/EEI. ftlifcS 
A-C RETURN CAN ALSO BE THE IMMEDIATE TUESDAY FOLLOWING DEPAR'URC 
Mileage Plus Accrual: Oisr.nuniw avsi is eiigi:;te fo: Mileago PI-..?, wdii 
Ticketing: E-Ticketing only (electronic ticketing servicei 
Taxes/Service Charges: An ;re. axes ad'aifdw^ wJi/liiiij PassenrRi Fac i!, C'ar, 
(up to $12} are It ifi5pons4)'ity ol the passengs1 and must is vei a! t ~*i 'tfeiirvj 
Cert Restrictions: Certificate's feou'ec 'cr a:.::unt and mi.r be b'esv!-! hi i ?<: 
of ticketing Accept original K'lilicate rity l.w-e-ienjibte n:n-ccmb nafci*- .'.itf* 
oilier an travel :?otiC3tes or 'l.scvur Uv. v^s >V ^y. c v.v.i S 7s
awards'convenlion/grcjp.tctjr''sen orc'tizen- nic-n: c-'iia trave' iritisnot replaceable if lost or stolen. No cash value: may not be sold or bartered. Protection 
lor flight irregularities will be on Urited/Unitedfxpiess/Sliuiile by United Nights only 
Discount applies to new purchases only and will net be honored retroactively or m 
conncclinn with !he exchange of any wholly or panially unused ticket. One ticket pci 
certificate redeemed Void il altered ur duplicated.
Ticketing Restrictions: Mcn-refundabie. Mon-transferable alter ticketing Cnang? in 
origin or destination is net permitted Tickets MAY BE revaiioated for a $50 per ticket lee
Agency Ticketing Instructions: See S*PMA/flV0027 lor detailed information
1. Treat as Type 'K Discount Certificate
Use Fare Basis Code: VE14NSTU
VE14NSTD (zones A-C)
-Use Tickel Designator AV0027
-Endorsement Box. VALID UA ONLY/Non-Rel/No llin Changes
2. Relcr lo ARC Industry Agents' Handbook, seclion 6.0 lor details.
3. Failure lo comply with promotion guidelines could result in debit memo.
UAL AT0/CT0 Ticketing Instructions: See S'PM0/AV0027
8 016 5003000045 7
m
THEARN
BEyMEHR.

---------------------------------------------------

break away on Amtrak
What, not a member?
Enoughs enough. Get out of 
town. Fast. We have 500 places 
to go. Youre the student - you 
figure out where.Grab the phone, maKe 
a reservation and refer to 
Head to your nearby Amtrak station 
hop the next train home  or, wherever. 
Just get going. Class dismissed!!
MMMMSa
For reservations call your travel agent orS -800-USA-RAIL
www.amtrak.com
Semi Formal
T&tiet Bail tW7
Dinner, Dance & Cash Bar
Save 20#*, thats more than ever before with STUDENT ADVANTAGI on AMTRAK. Call 1-800-USA-RAIL
(future break)
'Special Amtrak spring break/Student Advantage discount effective for travel February 14,1997 - March 31, 1997; is not 
valid on certain blackout dates; and is subject to availability. You must provide your Student Advantage membership number 
and refer to Code Y710 when you make your reservation; you must present your card when you pick up your ticket. Some trains 
require reservations. Other restrictions and blackouts may apply. Discount not applicable on Canadian portion of joint AmtrakA/IA 
Services, certain Metroliners, and in conjunction with other promotions, offers or discounts. To qualify for the Free 
Student Advantage membership through August 1998, follow these three simple steps: (1) Make a reservation through 
Amtrak or your travel agent; (2) Travel on Amtrak at the regular fare and complete your journey by March 31, 1997; (3) Upon 
completion of travel, forward a photocopy of your ticket and your Student Advantage application using the self addressed form. 
All tickets submitted must be in the applicants name and issued through an Amtrak ticketing counter or your travel agent. Offer 
valid for new Student Advantage members only. Call 1-800-96-AMTRAK for more information. 'Savings value calculated 
for the remaining portion of the 96-'97 and all of the 97-98 school years.
D.E. Shaw is the most tech
nologically sophisticated firm 
on the Street.
 Fortune
Please direct all inquiries or sub
mit resumes, along with GPA and 
SAT scores, as follows: 
oncampus@deshaw.com 
or
(212) 403-8499 
(facsimile)
Sponsored by: 
CIT, H&SS, 
MGS. SCS. 
Student Affairs
F,4 N,4M 2Ef,4NI12,E, M-NI2AS 
)YM 2 (f72IE-4MY.OEN.M-T
(spring break)
(price break)
Purchase an AMTRAK ticket to anywhere and you will get a STUDENT ADVANTAGE membership valid through August 1998 FREE!!!!!**Phone 
1-800-96-AMTRAK
D. E. Shaw & Co., L.P. is a 
small (around 400 employ
ees), highly capitalized (over 
800 million dollars in equity 
capital), very successful Wall 
Street firm specializing in 
various aspects of the inter
section between technology 
and finance. We are now 
aggressively seeking excep
tional candidates in a variety 
of fields for positions in our 
offices in New York, Boston, 
London, Tokyo, and 
Hyderabad, and are prepared 
to compensate highly talent
ed individuals at a level 
exceeding that of the market.
D. E. Shaw & Co., L.P. is an 
equal opportunity employer.
We're recruiting 
at CMU:
Thats a $35 value!*** Courtesy of AMTRAK & STUDENT ADVANTAGE
Saturday February 22nd, 1997 
7:00pm - midnight 
at Pittsburgh Athletics Association
$15 per person 
Tickets on sale at 
UC Info Desk & 
in front of Doherty Hall

---------------------------------------------------

IBM INFORMATION DAY
MUi Mncrnesnceitui oiffle Geuyicmurq a xR vipcbncq xggR
vlcBic tnet BiBpic 
mUncim ikIicuie'im
Lisette Mlller-Dixon/Tartan Photo Staff 
Carl Upchurch expounded on the topics of peacekeeping and gang violence last 
Thursday in McConomy Auditorium. Here he takes questions from the audience.
UPCHURCH, from page L2
tured slaves in the past.
What in my behavior is a legacy of 
that person? The needles in my arm? 
Having a family shattered? To call 
women bad names? To beat up my 
brothers because they are a represen
tative of me? asked Upchurch.
Upchurch said that there was a figu
rative minefield around the conveyor 
belt. Usually, those who try to cross 
the minefield are mangled or fatally 
wounded. Just a few are able to barely 
crawl across the minefield with their 
life, such as Upchurch. The question
is not to ask how the survivors were 
able to cross the minefield, but to 
realize the fact that there is a 
minefield and to ask Why we permit 
the minefield to remain.
If you set a rock on top of the flower, 
the flower will not grow much. But if 
you kick the rock off, that flower will 
continue to grow and function as a 
flower, but its stem will never be 
straight. Right now we have a tremen
dous boulder on the shoulders of our 
African-American youth .... We [must] 
recognize that I am not my enemy, [nor 
are] forces, [nor] people, but ideas.
HclbI ikIflcim HciiT Uicurnti
By SUSAN WATSON
Tartan Staffwriter
The Hellenic Students Association 
(HelSA), is a new on-campus Greek 
organization that has recently been rec
ognized by Student Senate. The organi
zation offers a support system to Hel
lenic students and faculty from Greece 
or Cyprus. It also provides the means 
through which students can learn about 
Hellenic culture.
Students involved 
with HelSA believe the 
new organization is 
'beneficial to the cam
pus because it brings 
students of Hellenic 
origins together while 
teaching others about 
the customs of Greece.
Having already 
Asian, African Ameri
can, Indian, and Latin 
cultural representa
tions at CMU, a Greek 
association adds the 
European flavor that 
was so clearly missing.
HelSA will make sure 
that CMU sees more of 
Europe in the future,
;Greece being the main 
focus, said HelSA 
^president Giorgos 
Markakis, a sophomore 
electrical and computer 
engineering and infor
mation decision sys
tems double major.
HelSA is hoping to 
broaden the horizons of 
CMU students inter
ested in Greek culture 
not only through onjcampus events with other clubs, but 
|also through national endeavours. 
According to Markakis, they hope to 
take trips to several major U.S. cities 
and explore various Grecian and Eu
ropean exhibitions and movies.
HelSA brings a new sense of cul
tural, identity and awareness to the 
CMU community. It is definitely not a 
club that wants to cause divisions 
among students, said Katrina
Tsatsoulis, a freshman in H&SS. If 
anything, it most certainly brings unity. 
HelSA is open to any student at CMU 
that wants to be aware of different cul
tures around the campus.
The way in which we promote our 
association on campus should be an ex
ample for every association, said HelSA 
tresurer Dimitri Iossifidis, a junior civil 
engineering major. We have contacts 
with the rest of the CMU community, and
Lisette Miuer-Dixon/iartan pnoto Stan 
The executives of HelSA are (clockwise from top): Dimitri iossifidis, Giorgos 
Markakis, Katarina Tsatsoulis, and Giorgos Christou.
we participate in common cultural events 
on campus with other associations. When 
I came to this country, I was expecting to 
discover a place where everybody lives 
sharing different cultures with others.
But thats not what I discovered. The fact 
that HelSA tries to break the divisions 
that exist is why I wanted to join. Culture 
is something we have to share. If you see 
it that way, it doesnt bring divisions 
amongst us, but new perceptions.
According to Markakis,' HelSAs 
first campus-reaching activity was the 
proposal to add Frapp to the Skibo 
Coffehouse menu. Frapp is a type of 
iced coffee popular in Greece. The or
ganization gave Skibo the machine to 
make the coffee, in addition to a can of 
Nescafe, the primary ingredient.
We had a positive initial response, 
said Markakis. And we are expecting 
Frapp to appear soon.
Another campuswide event that the 
group would like to 
embark on is a cel
ebration of Orthodox 
Easter, complete 
With dancing and 
traditionalfoods. Ac
cording to Iossifidis, 
HelSA is also plan
ning an event with 
Salsa, the Latin or
ganization.
HelSA has been 
holding meetings 
this semester since 
its recognition by 
Student Senate. 
Meetings are an ex
tremely important 
part of this organiza
tion and attendance 
is strongly encour
aged. We call a gen
eral meeting when
ever there is a proj ect 
or event to be intro
duced, the need for 
volunteers, or wKen 
a significant number 
of members ask for a 
meeting to held, 
Markakis said.
Anyone interested in joining HelSA 
should email Giorgos Markakis at 
markakis@ece.cmu.edu or Katarina 
Tsatsoulis at kjt+@ andrew.cmu.edu, or 
look up HelSAs bulletin board, 
assocsHelSA@and/'ew.cmiueduwhereyou 
can catch up on daily Greek news, job 
opportunities, and internships in Greece, 
and Grecian scholarships an d grants. Also, 
visit its web page located at http:/ / 
www.andi'ew.cmu.edu/~cdassios/helsa.
A REFRESHER COURSE 
IN HOME ECONOMICS.
uJ/Jd like vou to take this I Now, tor the answers.
simple test to see if your home is as 
energy efficient as possible. Ready? 
Lets begin. How many of you have 
IV.-s? How many, times have you 
left the room and 
left- it on? How 
many times have 
you fallen asleep
ifiiligis-hcatril witching ic only to 
homes wm properly 
wihrrslnpprJuvJmr w>l UP to die 
enough natumlgas to
heat -7 million homes. ' Star Spangled 
Banner"? And what about your 
lamps and lights? Do you nu n 
them off when you exit a room? is 
your house excessively lit during the 
day? Next,.check your thermostat. 
Odds an.', it could use adjusting. 
And finally, see 1 
there's a di-aft
coming hum 
your windows 
and doors.
If then* is, you could be letting 
valuable energy fly right outside.
If reiylvdy adjusted 
ilx'irtheniiostatly (> 
degrees \vy could saw 
up lo l()(),()()() 
barrels of oil a day.
Fry installing timers 
on your lights and 
television.
Theyre simple 
.to use, and
inexpensive..
"Kirn your 
mostat up or down 
a few degrees. If 
you get cold, grab 
a sweater or a blan
ket. If you're hot, wear 
fewer clothes. And, as for 
your windows and doors, a couple 
packages of S3.00 weather strip
ping should do the trick, 
liadi of these things will help save 
energy and resources for the years 
to come. And if we can do that, 
we all deserve high marks.
FOR MORI INKiRMATION AND IIPS 
CALL l-'W(!-MY-SHARt.
IT'S A CONNECTED WORLD. 
DO YOUR SHARE.
.Earth Share
B.S./M.S./Ph.D GRADUATES
Bring copies of your resum.
DATE: Thursday, February 20, 1997
TIME: 7 pm-9 pm
LOCATION: Baker Hall, Adamson Wing
DRESS: Casual
DISCIPLINES: Computer Engineering
Computer Science 
Consulting 
Engineering 
MIS
Technical/General Sales
We give recent graduates the tools, the support 
and the resources they need to explore ideas. 
Were pushing this company to the Nth degree. 
And you can take us there.
Visit www.cybrblu.ibm.comIBM is committed to creating a diverse 
environment and is proud to be an equal 
opportunity employer.

---------------------------------------------------

W
herein theres this guy and he has this 
phone number and the numbers impor
tant and the other guy throws it away and the first 
guy has to dig through the garbage to get it so this 
girl can tall it, but theres no answering machine 
and they all die in the end cause Bill and Ted come 
and kill em. Have a Lemonade.
Al Scott /4dams
rom,uiEi\\ mu' 
UKETMS /COLUMN IS \ BEAT 
OU? BOY- OUT ALL
mmes...} -Auto WyrJ [euYsri
yup euk,JnT BppORGANIZING W 
THEM IN CAT- seoRJESsoi\\CON PRIORI- I IT/2ETHEM.) \SORieS7J
I BULLET POINT 
, MONTHLY 
IHMENTS,
PUT (At DO UN FOR, 
"LEVERAGED SYNERGY 
SCHOSS ALL TECHNOLOGY 
PLATFORMS."
t NEED A 
FOR YOUR 
ACCOMPLI'! 
WALLY.
THAT WAS YOUR 
ACCOMPLISHMENT 
LAST MONTH.
UH-HUH. tVE sajs. 
SCmTPOKJN hukn ar .Bsb l.ri300. 300
PEOPLEHEY, FUTURE \ STEP-MOMSTER STILL O0PKJN6OW THE GUEST LIST?,
ITS MORE OF A 
TOURNEY TUAN 
A DESTINATION.
OH, GREAT! \ somONLY IN
VITE YOUR , FRJENPS?)
J WELL, LIKE, 1 NO PEOPLE I \KIHO'VE SLEPT \ I WITH THE J \ TartnJ y
LATERI UNPER- 50? ISTANP, BUT PONT5EE THIS 5 OUR JHAT THE WEPPING, BIG PEAL KJM! \ /S.
BOYFRJENPS? Tf FORMER \ XXJWANT BOVFRJENPSn TO INVITE I THEYRE MY . BO/FPJENP5?\\ BUPS NOW, J tey-----M MfTPJE! )
AFTER ALL THE WORK 
I DID ON THAT 
PROTECT, m THINKING 
FOUR DIGITS, MAYBE 
FIVE.
TOD\Y I'LL FIND 
OUT HOW BIG MY 
BONUS DILL BE..
' LOOK, IJUST THINK WESHOULPHAVE SOME 'GROUNP RULES FOR THE GUEST LIST, OKAY?
LIKE WHAT? j
HOCO
IAANY
DIGITS?
I USED ONE 
ON EACH 
HAND.
MICHAEL, I REALLY PONT SEE WHY YOU'RE HAVING SUCHA PROBLEM WITH MY INVITING A FEW MALE FRJEHPS TO THE ^^S^WEPPING-.^gi
R/EU,L/K, 
LIK3 WHO'S TH/S WHO? JOAN/E\ CAUCUS?
I. ,NEED /AY OWN 
SECRETARY, m 
TOO BUSY TO 
HELP YOU UNLESS 
I GET SOME. 
SUPPORT.
rgc gri tmopJdyJ fgSzC COE SEAT r* 
HER AT THE J HEAP TABLE? \
yol, NO. T MEAN,MMr? YOU'VE GOT , ALL THESEWOMEN ON -----YOUR LIST...
]UM~.MY \ FORMER \ MOTHER-IN-LAW..
TOO BUSY? YOU 
HAVEN'T DONE ANY 
WORK FOR fALIN 
SIX AONTHS.
OH, SUDDENLY 
THIS IS ABOUT 
YOU?
WELL, ^^MEUiLIKE, MY 1 YBS.WHAB] SIPE OF THE AISLE THE PROB-1 l5GOINGT0dt 70- L IEM7 J 7AU-YLNTIMIPATEP jLrngmgm BYYOURSIPEBEING
OF COURSE. ANP BARBARA HESONE ANN BOOPSTEIN? OF MY BEST ANP HER MANA- FRJENPS. GER-B.P.?
SO ARB ALL THESE PEO  HONyVURLJ5T NECESSARY? LIKE MARK ^-^VACKMEVER7
PLUS, WHOS GOING TO FAY FORTHE EXTRA SECURITY?
CAROL, DO YOU KNOW 
WHY MY RAISE HASN'T 
SHOWED UP IN MY PAY
VEn7 TheBoardf u
SUBMITTED THE 
/ f PAPERWORK., r
CAROL, YOU ARE 
THE SECRETARY.
I'M TOO BUSY TO DO IT. 
MAYBE YOU SHOULD 
TALK. TO MY BOSS 
ABOUT GETTING ME 
A SECRETARY.
THAT'LL COST 
YOU ANOTHER 
MONTH.
OR HAVE /TATA CYBER CAFE, SO ALL THE GUESTS CAN PLAYON THE WEB! OR AT SIT& SPIN, WHERE EVERYONE CAN PANCE ANP PO THEIR LAUNPRY AFTER THE CEREMONY!
fAY RAISE DIDN'T GO 
THROUGH BECAUSE YOUR 
SECRETARY DIDN'T DO 
THE PAPERWORK.
UM--ACWALLY. WE WERE THINKING OF A CHURCH.
X A CHURCH? i WHATPOPEO- PLEPOATA CHURCH?
I DEWAND THAT YOU 
INITIATE DISCIPLINARY 
ACTIONS AGAINST 
HER/
r GET  MARRIEP.CAROL, COULD YOU 
GET ME ONE OF THOSE 
DISCIPLINARY ACTION
FS? fsURE, RIGHl'l 
AFTER MY 
AV SKI TRIP TO
JA, HELL.iT
InsideeFor WWW 
urimDvsoSF
 KvuT hukv J VcJyrhu
Sn TRIBE"if \
IN THE INTERESTS OFPEACE, WE WONTIHVTTE ANYONE: ASSOCIAIS? WITH OUR RESPECTIVE FAST ROMANTIC 
HISTORIES, OKAY? ____
YOUVUKB TD/NVnS YOUR FORMER MOTHER/N-IAW7I PONTEVEN lUANTTDKNOU/ ? MATTHATS BLi; ABOUT'
NOW WILL YOU HAVE 
TIME TO PROCESS MY 
PAY INCREASE? IT'S 
BEEN ON YOUR DESK 
FOR THREE MONTHS.
HERE'S K 
ANOTHER k 
CASE WHERE 1 
MORE IS NOT 
BETTER,./'
I DIDN'T KNOW 
SECRETARIES f 
COULD HAVE 
SECRETARIES.)
THIS IS 
WENDY, 
MY NEW 
SECRETARY.
NOT
OKAY!UTTHOHE EXCEPTION. OF COURSE.
From thedead files to you
Funny jaunts through the past? Historical perspectives on 
CMU? Something different to line your kitty-litter box with? 
You decide.
I 'S A ftAlffiFuU-i LYEIC 
I , IVpPEHt Krm 
S'
'^HKes As up B\>icr/ 
Ti gutpdp svEgn 
Vny, art HAi
"6 CMicet tft VilbfQusm 
W SfreV DAHHft Son 
SMoeinC, fts kAynntui 
I'Ve viifpy T55 t^A/' 
jfejsr is it hiss ,
Once again, Comics Guy presents a more or less 
meaningless, out-of-context cartoon from the past
Tartan file art

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  17 February 1997
ct&m>
WHtRlS Y#uK 
phone., ptOph/ So T. SAXS -, tr LOOK, 70NKEY-B0K
E QULL my tail ami a/ M.p OPURLL 
j <^o stpr c^yiA/Gr -rb TtoToTv
; WITH MY T-TH Al lPUT R
\^FAcE-!"m6   I
r,K\\l^lNK- fEEP HIS PAHTSl
_^
HE YAK9?
rpWBA8lY <w
IN TH *AfcV 
S. A&AlN. >
The Bigger-than-yerhead Comics Surveybu Jackson Tam
ATTACK 
OF THE 
SWA6 
WORAA
FM S,M,A ,D AadaMn 
ewlvlnaA t,owal vMe 
t,owa AarAaiavlalB 
nSa n,kM ,D HAvMwnaowiia 
EA,xeip EAalaMnlssssssss
uaaE wM nSa g,kail ,D 
lxgxAgwv iwalsss ^
cxn ,Mip ,Ma EaAl,M 
lxlEadnl nSa nAxnSh
Theres a worm beneath the 
town! O
We want to know what you want to be 
splitting your side about in the comics 
section. So this is your chance! Send this 
handy-dandy clip-out survey to us via 
campus mail and let us know. You can also 
email kk4i with the answers!
v IwvMnB e,AtvMn k,Ath1. Which comics do you read regularly? 
(circle em)
PSa wIM,AvMn n,kMD,if AanxAM n, nSawA 
d,xMnp DvwA vMe iat,MveaB AwL
(Ha Ha Ha... a worm?')
UMnwiyyyyy
1-ley you smell 
something?
Someone must've backed 
up the outhouse!____^
What's that 
stuff on the 
around?_r
Dilbert
Doonesbury
Graniteville
Ilios
Japanese Beetle 
Non Sequitiir 
Over the Hedge 
Robotman 
Twisted Pete 
Umbilical Cord FredPSa n,kM wl e,,tae
xMiall ... f rrrrrrrrs
1I ve got an
Q idea!
Force the 
worm to the 
aquarium!2. What comics would you like to be read
ing regularly?
3. Are you a sheep? (circle one) 
Yes
4. How can we make you laugh?
You think too 
much, Doctor. 
Have a 
lemonade.
We just got lucky today, > 
councilman. Will the town be 
as fortunate in the future?
Brilliant plan, Doctor! Who 
except you would know that 
killer whales and sewage 
worms are natural enemies!
PSa mMe N 
TA Lxln nSa 
gaIwMMwMI N
jPPjbC 
OF TfHE. 
.RWj!R WT?- 
Y .Eadwvi mewnw,M Y
send to:
Comics Guy
The Tartan 
Box 17
WvndS D,A
Another Anecdote (back by popular demand)...
There once was a desert Island in the middle of the ocean, where the simple natives lived in grass huts and had
happy lives. They had a beloved king, whom they admired greatly.
The people loved their king sooo much, that when his birthday rolled around, they wanted to honor him with a 
wonderful gift.
They finally decided to give him a beautiful golden throne encrusted with jewels (youd think they wouldnt live in 
grass huts if theyre able to buy a golden throne  but hey, dont ask me, I just pump the gas).
The king loved his gift, and proclaimed his happiness across the island.
The king loved his throne sooo much, that when his birthday came the next year, his people (not being all that bright) 
gave him another throne  this one bigger and more ornate than the last.
The king was enthralled with his new throne, but he had a problem.
What shall I do with my old throne, he asked. Being a procrastinator by nature, he tossed it in his attic (and even
though it was a grass hut, it was sooo big that it still had an attic, cause hes the king and all  
but stop interrupting).
% ""X And so the tradition continued: every year the people would give the king a new throne and
/ he woulc* Put the olcl one in ^is oh-so-roomy attic.
wlh1 one ciay attic collaPsecl under the weight of all the thrones and killed the kinginstantly, and everyone was sad.
The moral of the story is: those who live in grass houses shouldnt stow thrones

---------------------------------------------------

alcwuc
3 06
Il Jl
8|
m '/ '1 / 1 / JLw
7/ 3
n Pi V >y
Jjt!
Were Looking for 
Singers and Dancers 
Who Can Really Move.
.J0 8!8MVo8N 
oVVM5WH M.V s.LLVWHV 
hv  s.WH5WH jhJLO6
SYSTEMS 
DATABASE ANALYST
Western Psychiatric Institute and Clinic, a division of the 
University of Pittsburgh, has an immediate opening for a 
qualified individual to contribute systems programming 
and database administration support to the ongoing re
search protocol of a longitudinal study of juvenile psycho
pathology.
The incumbent will be responsible for the independent 
management of databases and associated data management 
programs as well as recommending and designing pro
grams as necessary for data storage and analysis. Addi
tional responsibilities include statistical analysis and 
software data programming.
This position requires a M.S. in Information Science or 
Computer Science with at least two years of work experi
ence in psychiatric or public health research related data 
management with large longitudinal sets. In addition, the 
successful candidate must have a clearly demonstrated 
working knowledge and previous experience with VAX/ 
VMS, AXP Open VMS, SUN/OS, and UNIX systems.
Must have experience with SI032, DEC Rdb, or similar 
RDBMS. Familiarity with HARVARD GRAPHICS and 
TELLAGRAF desired. Previous statistical analysis using 
SPSSx, BMPD a must.
We offer a competitive salary and fringe benefits package 
including tuition reimbursement. Interested candidates send 
a resume with references to:
Maria Kovacs, Ph.D.
WESTERN PSYCHIATRIC 
INSTITUTE AND CLINIC 
3811 OHara Street 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
EOE
LOOK FOR US OH CAMPUS ON 
MARCH 4.
HRB Systems designs, develops, integrates, and supports information col
lection, processing and management systems. Our domain expertise is 
focused on real-time and interactive signal intelligence, transportation 
management, and automated process management. Key technologies 
include OOA/OOD, DBMS, Simulation & Modeling, Virtual Reality, 
Digital Signal Processing, Distributed Computing Environments, and 
Client/Server applications.
We are currendy accepting resumes for recent Computer Engineering, 
Computer Science, and Math with Computer Science minor graduates 
with experience using C, C++, Ada, or related computer languages. Also 
experience the UNIX operating System and Windows NT is desirable. 
These positions require a 2.8 GPA or higher.
High demand for our current technologies has created opportunities in 
State College, PA; Linthicum/Fort Meade, MD; Denver, CO and 
Northern Virginia.
U.S. Citizenship is required. Applicants selected will be subject to a secu
rity investigation and must meet eligibility requirements for access to 
classified information.
To apply for positions in Pennsylvania or Colorado, please send your 
resume to: HRB Systems, Attn: Human Resources, P.O. Box 60,
Science Park Rd., State College, PA 18604. Email: pjm@hrb.com.
To apply for positions in Maryland or Virginia, please send your resume 
to: HRB Systems, Maryland Operations, Attn: Human Resources, 800 
international Drive, Linthicum, MD 21090. Email:mfe@hrb.com.
For additional information about HRB Systems, please see our home
page at http://www.hrb.com.
MUi Mncrne a snceitui oiffle Geuyicmurq a xR vipcbncq xggR
The Killer Cheek
http://wwiv.contrib.andreiv.cmu.edu/usr/mccann/cheek/ by Jim McCann
Pittsburgh, PA
Orlando, FL
 Singers Who Dance  Singers Who Move Well 
 Dancers  Musical Theatre Performers 
> Are you ready for your career to make a 
 move in the right direction? Then come to 
'Disney's singer, dancer and theater per
former auditions. If chosen, you'll have the 
opportunity to perform daily in front of 
thousands of people who are drawn to the 
music and magic of Disney.
You must be at least 18 years old by May 1, 1997, and must 
bring a nonreturnable picture and resum. Singers are to 
prepare two vocal selections (ballad/up tempo  best 16 bars) 
and provide sheet music. Accompanist is provided; no tapes. 
Dancers will be taught a dance combination. Appropriate 
;' dance attire and shoes required. If you do not have an eligibility card from Actor's Equity Association, attend the open call.
Audition Date, Call Times and Location
Point Park College, Pittsburgh, PA 
Boulevard of the Allies & Wood Street
Saturday, March 1 
Eligible & Open Call Dancers & Singers
2 pm  Eligible Singers 
3 pm  Open Call Singers 
5 pm  Eligible & Open Call Dancers
All performers employed by Walt Disney World Co. are covered under the 
terms and conditions of a collective bargaining agreement with Actor's Equity 
Association. Full-time employees receive a flexible insurance package that fits 
individual needs and lifestyles. Other benefits include sick days, merchandise 
discounts, Park admission and more. Pension benefit is funded with the Equity 
League Pension Trust Fund, and provided to all performers (full-time and 
casual).
If you have specific questions, please call the
bzurule .lrfuei nr _31R% dgRwdCC1$
Monday through Friday, from 10 am to 1 pm 
or 2 pm to 5 pm
EOE  Drawing Creativity from Diversity
Collegiate Crossword
Many newspapers carry crosswords regularly. This one does not. 
Maybe there will be another one next week. Maybe not. If you like 
this crossword puzzle, let us know. Otherwise, I have no way of 
telling whether or not this feature will ever print again. Enjoy!
ACROSS41 Gary and family11Mother of Ishmael
43 German river12 Miss Brewer, et al
i Zone44 Commonplace13"110 in the ---n
6Daub46 Twofold14Ex-pitcher McLain
11Food fish47 "For shame!"19 Girl
13Burned48 Russian plains22 Height
15 Dye ingredient50 Prefix for meter24Camelot notable 
16 Washington phone51 Italian gulf26--- eyes
(2 Wds.)53 Part of golf28Sure thing
17Herd of whales55 Law30 Girl's name
18 Winter wear56 Assyrians, e.g.31Wide'.s partner
20Prison57 Thrill33"Leapin' ---!"
'21Gibbons58 Did dangerous34 Having leaves ;
23 English novelistwork35---arts
24Ball attire36Certain investment
25LeasesDOWN37 Very learned
27Vane direction38--- glass
.28 Hr. Jones1 Appetizers39 Boxing blows !
29Verses2 Food40Indian craft
31Did office work3 Nothing
4 's Irish Rose"
42 Furnace leftovers
32Mew Mexico town44Montana city
33Miss Cantrell5 Of the moon45--- and Penates
34 Lucky chance6 Extent of view48Certain fastener.
35Deciduous trees7 Wilander of tennis(2 wds.}
39French river8 Building part49Blockhead
40Certain relative,9 Fatty52--- standstill
for short10 Did over54Clock dial number
QEdward Julius Collegiate CW8827
Cilia
Happy just-past-Valentines-Day 
from Comics Guy.

---------------------------------------------------

by Jim Meddick
YOU POUT UNPiRSWMP- m ONLY 60 Wg TO STEAL FROM 6UILYUPPIES,CORRUPT, LAWYERS AMP INVESTMENT SA/UKERS 
r/awe, my FArrnm\^SSU, / COMRMION-TIS
vm ae ARfHEy i /59a PRACT/C6/... y
MotMAU,- PECIPEP TO BECOME h 5KSN-OSV W HOOQ.t) smTOA 
me RICHAUIUETOTHEpoor /
YOU GOT TUB ?Lhmm\OK, lETfe TSSi'.ASAIM-:-' 
VISA CARD,THE ROEJJthIS TIME T&MUHZ 
and we lows /your personal . vuirr BR/epcAse.i train on we "____-'V cell Ifyoucllld d
You NEED To CToP 
L00KIN& To oTUERS 
FoB TUE WBWEfe 
To YoUR UAPPINE....but;moot/,sreAUN 
r\ issnasreAUNSrv rr
1997 Wllcy Miller dUt. by Waihingtox Pojt Writer 6roop WEB SITE: www.washlng-tonpojt.eom/wilcy E-mail: Wileytoon>aol.eom
OK HOW,-1ST LOOK INCONSPICUOUSanp wavt til 1 ?spy an eviu 
WriWte wth ah scMemitJSHOW AM I SUPPOSE (P[\JD TO UXK INCONSPICUOUS rip \ WHaJ  WARMS ? Vi\ ms awcomus JvJ^iRIARTUCK OUTFIT.
YOUFOPE.T,M/ Y YO,BA0y-YoyLO5KlfJ' FRlENt>...IME'|fe I 4t. v 5vec 5vnevig em ilM y,nC u $$$$$$$i111111111
I AUU -WM.L STREET.'
JTHE PEKFEttT lOCRiovS 
10 LAUNCH IAY 
CAREER AS A MOPERUk PAY R06IN WOOD.'1 OJPPoSE TUE 
FIRST WARNING 
SIGN WAS TUE 
SKI RESoRT4 
ENDORSEMENT 
BY TUE AMERICAN 
BAR
ASSOCIATION...
SIR, OUR miRD-Y \NH(srp I \ 'WHEM HE'S WoRlP PRISON I TELL YOU?- NOT LOOKING, LAW6PS ARE\GWE'eW SWITCH HIS REQUESTING H0R6-1 K CRUSr/ "STRESS t JCmMWPmJ AMP / N'NASENlEttr ir'WL TAPE WITH V4#^> "M TAKE t\ l?FEM(UN*." 
O -NV10M:..
NOHSEUSS f 1 SOT RE IM.mRou6H B9902t.97usommePOOR TO HAME.THEIR PARENTS PUT THEM 1HR0UH PREP SCHOOL. AA/P...
HALT AND UNWWYO/R H16ESOTTEV3 RICHES' TIS 1,SIRWWMONTAHOOD, AV6NSERQF THE P0C ANP POWNTROTOtf!NEW K&E 
WKRD LUCK 
4TolEC...
AH,NOBLE FRIAR,TWAS7 H&, PET6RA PRODUCTIVE PAV Of PAVI.WHKCHA, 
PLUNPERINS THE RICH.' 1 OT IN TWOT v---gL-y---  (V BA?., y
HOW fCKnJnWS/SEVERAl tWINTTROPt VETABLE-gOPlERMEN APfWCWETK/SAY-there... mm huk laps eg /wterestepM OMWWS /Viy 8MP OFMBflRYMeKIy
I KNEW WE WE?g IN TRflUSLE- WHEM .YOU Sl*&3ESTE0 THE 6R66M LKTTAPPS-.JoB SECURITY, 
YETERDkY...
JoB CUSJlTY, 
ToDKY...
SI997 Wiley Miller din. by Waihinqon Post Wrilin 9roup WES SITS: www.waihmqloKpoii.eowVwiley E-mail: WileYtooweaol.eow
2ob fBof 0u'wNarsLe,8WiFmen SSANT?y THAT WAS ELI7A66TH HWJLEY WITH HIM,
' ESTEE LAUPER MBrve
Cira I MMgoUTWrtHA 
14 7 \ mp New yJTo 
? Vofcosmt,cs - >
OH, UM_SO?V!.X VIPN'TmAM TO WTEWa/fr.WVMWJRVOV...
OPEN UP! T/S x- S/fi MONTY 
MONTAHQ5P, AI/E/V6R F TW& 
FO/J, HP TO PLUHVeZ YOUR. KBl/CK-WNttXiei? LIMOUSINE !
FEDERMPENITENTIMJY
EXPRES
VIlsK
vii=yOH-KAV-HwrLEAVES US WfTH ] TMROUl IVI THE A 6RANPTOTAL-OF $H  7 US9P ATHLETlO Tt> aUETO THE PXP-J SUPPORTER Y0UV
^*5^;-----,r-T KEM MEANING
<^V " ToavE-rome
{S-ffr SALVATION APNW
H V; UV /!SV\ ftN0mW.MWK6S- Y-J I" V\ WEvwSiH--
FELINE
FUlLo^oPUY.
TWE'S $31).i.FCR LEOTARDS...S 2I--2 FOR ARROWS ANP...W..mE!S SROS COSTS SOTTA KEEP THE MERRY MEM MERRY )...insmn... TmspomoN..M&ts-erc...ercOK, UJE'VE R0686P FRO \ Birr FIRST we RICH-NOW IT'S TIME- WE HAVE TO V SWETOTHE (BOR... / PEPUCTOUR 
EyPENSES.
I997 Wiley Miller diJt. by Washington Post Writers troop WE? SITE: www.wajhingtonpojt.eom/wiley E-mail: Wileytoon>aol.com
R.J., IN THE DARKEST PAYS Of 
WRIT1N&S TAR MRS, WHEN NO ONE 
BELIEVED IN HIM, GEORGE LUCAS 
WROTE THE WORD MXXl3T...VO 
YOU THINK HE THOUGHT, "NOW. THtS 
IS THE STUPIDEST THING I'VE EVER 
DONE1?r
NO. THE STUPIDEST 
THING HE EVER DID ...
THIS SCREENPLAY STINKS" THE 
CHARACTERS ttAKEAP SENSE' 
THE PLOT IS PUMBt...
...WAS PUT THOSE TWO 
CINNAMON 5UNS CM TH- SIDES 
n OF PRINCESS LEIAS HEAD/
ONE WORD..
:VJOOKlEc.I THINS, 'tasti rtlir+3 I1Y POINT, HERE,
WGOKl&E*?by Michael Fry & T. Lewis
f^AY, GIMME THE 
LOG LINE Of THIS me YOU WANT 
I TO WRITE.
THE ONE-SENTENCE 
DESCRIPTION Of THE 
v ACTION... .
LOG LINE'?INTERESTING... 
BUT IvHATS THE 
HOOK?
..-.ITS A 
TALKIE.
r ...YA KNOW, YOU 
CAN'T HAVE TOO MANY 
. SPECIAL EFFECTS.
STUFF
HAPPENS.^ VERNE, IF YOU 
REALL Y HAVE YOUR 
LIT TURTLE HEART SET 
CN GETTING SOME 
VALENTINES...
txfcOvi>WHAT'S YOUR 
POINT?THE END.
.THERE'S SOMETHING TO 
BE SAID FOR PLAYINGNAdvuW-uWE-\
HMM...G00D... BUT YOU 
MIGHT WANT TO BUILD 
MORE SLOWLY TO THE 
VOLCANO...
YOUR F/RS TACT SHOULD ESTABLISH
your pAdvdp-ovt 
am? the ut-dpyo 
NO OVERCOME.
r . 'OUR HERO IS 
STANDING AT A 
NEWSSTAND... 
SUDDENLY A VOLCANO 
I PALLS ON HIM.
... AND THE 
MISS BUNION
mT
CENTERFOLD.
THE ONE WITH THE 
QUARTERLY CORN 
UPDATE?ONTO 
ACT 2/!z-HFp-^lv(-p.
HE WAS READING 
THE SPRING 
DOUBLE ISSUE Or 
PODIATRY TODAY.'
01S37 llniled Feature Syndicale.Z-tl
HMM ...BONNIE 
HUNT, SANDY 
BULLOCK, JEN 
ANJSTCN...7A^ 
PROM BONNIE, 
TA^PROM 
JEN ...THREE 
PROM BONNIEALL/GOT WAS 
A REMINDER 
PROM MY ELECTR0L06IST 
ABOUT MY 
MONTHLY NOSEHAIR TREATMENT.
LOOK... SHE 
DOTTED HER 1's 
WITH LITTLE HEARTS...T 00/ YOURERIGHT/1 
WONDER WHAT 
I IT MEANS?
DADPY-O...IT MEANS 
SHE'S ONE OP ' THOSE 
PEOPLE" WHO POT 
THEIR Is WITH LITTLE 
HEARTS.
IP YOURE GONNA II LOVE SICK, 
DO IT DOWNWIND...
Z'lS
FP'V
^ YOUR ACTE, THE 
W SHOULD FACE 
ADVERSITY, FAIL...
then vJtod'dUeM
ARE YOU SURE 
PEOPLE WILL 
SUSPEND THEIR 
DISBELIEF? .
^ HEY...THEY 
BELIEVE WILLIAM 
SHATNERHAS HAIR.
OIG HIM UPAND CLONE 
A NEW PROTAGONIST 
FROM HIS RELATIVELY 
INTACT EARLOBE.
BUT HES BURJEP 
UNDER isO FT. OF MUTENLAVA*...WHAT 
WOULD 
|2 LUCAS VCX
May you arrive in heaven a half-hour before the 
devil knows youre dead. Polemic Irish drinking toast
i-fZ.f=(cy.
MUi Mncrne Y snceitui oiffle Geuyicmurq a xR vipcbncq xggR xg(

---------------------------------------------------

PIZZA 
OUTLET
We deliver great taste to your door
Oakland/CMd
687-9555
4740 BAUM BLVD. 
Open 7 days a week
Sunday-Thursday Friday & Saturday
11 am-2 am11 am-3 am
We accept 
Campus Express 
and Dine Express
AMERICAN UNIVERSITY
ram
PROGRAMS, COURSES, SEMINARS, AND INSTITUTES TO MEET THE NEEDS OF 
MANY DIFFERENT KINDS OF STUDENTS. FEATURES SUMMER IN WASHINGTON 
THEME CURRICULUM THAT USES WASHINGTON, DC AS A LABORATORY
SPECIAL SUMMER INSTITUTES ART & CRAFT OF LOBBYING a CAMPAIGN 
MANAGEMENT  CIVIL WAR  EDUCATING FOR GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP
 THE ETHNIC EXPERIENCE IN NEW YORK CITY  FILM & VIDEO  
GLOBAL SOUTH a INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS  MAGAZINE PUBLISHING
 MONEY, SELF, & SOCIETY  NUCLEAR STUDIES  STRATEGIC INITIATIVES 
FOR CONSULTANTS & CHANGE AGENTS  TEACHING ENGLISH TO SPEAKERS 
OF OTHER LANGUAGES,
For a Summet' Bulletin 
ami registration form call
202-885-2500, 
fax 202-885-2542, or e-mail: 
sum metamerica ji.edu 
for more information.
an eeo/affirmative action university
Detail from Robert F. Bates' painting. Bathers. 1962. oil on canvas, 50 x 64.
Gift fTom Santa Gates. Watkins Collection, American University.
Youd have 
to pay me 
to read
THE TARTAN.
Okay, heres your chance. We need proof
readers to read The Tartan on Sunday to 
make sure that there are no mistakes. If 
you have a good eye for grammar and 
style, weTl teach you the rest. Proofread
ing shifts run 2-4 hours on Sunday for 
$5/hour. Scheduling is flexible, and you 
get to read the paper before it comes out 
on Monday. 
Interested? Email Victor Ortega (victor+) 
or call the Tartan office at x8-2111.
Free candy bar to anyone who can correctly identify the source of the artwork in this ad
hauA Dads Cpd1 luuf 
Funding eas -uoc 
ruMs8
If your organization is recog
nized by Student Senate, you 
may apply for a budget for the 
1997-98 academic year.
Please check your mailbox in 
the University Center, or email:
funding-recognition@andrew.cmu.edu
to get information about the 
budget process.

---------------------------------------------------

Volume 91, Issue 17The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania17 February 1997
Kresge opens spring season
ByALEXLEWIN
Tartan Forum Co-Editor
If you like sex, youll like Cloud Nine.
Caryl Churchills play contains every 
kind of sex imaginable (between hu
mans, at least)  oral sex, gay sex, 
lesbian sex, incest, pedophilia. The 
works.
The first act of this 
bizarre romp is set in 
British colonial Af
rica, 1880, where a 
British family and 
their guests are very 
prim and proper  
until any two of them 
are alone together.
Then their sexual 
desire takes over in a 
very frank and comic 
way.
Then, in act two we 
are catapulted into 
pre-AIDS London,
1980. But we are 
dealing with the 
same characters from 
act one, and theyve 
aged only 25 years.
Act two is much more 
serious in tone and 
presents sexual at
traction in a more 
weighty (but still 
frank) manner. Un
like the first act, 
where everything 
seemed deliberately 
choreographed and 
overwrought for 
comedys sake, characters in the sec
ond act genuinely seem to hurt when 
they are, say, rejected by a lover.
The two acts are like two different 
plays, and that seems to be ChurchilFs 
intention. The other outlandish ele
ment of this play is that different actors 
play different roles at different times. 
The mother of the family, Betty, is 
played by Doug Howe in act one, and 
Chae Lian in act two (to show just one 
of several examples).
One of the remarkable aspects of this 
play, as directed by Geoffrey Hitch, is 
that we can follow all the characters and 
what they want, in spite of the casting 
switches and each characters often - 
fickle sexual desires. Dont let the pro
gram, with its thorough and confusing 
cast list, intimidate you.
The acting is solid all around. A par
ticular standout is Amy Domnier, who is
Courtesy of
Members of the Drama Department starred in Cloud Nine.
wonderful as nine-year-old Edward in 
act one and grown-up Victoria in act 
two. Also very striking is Cody 
Nickell, whose performance as Melchior 
in Spring Awakening is one of the most 
disturbing and powerful Ive seen on the 
Kresge stage. Nickell is sinister and 
frightening as Joshua, the African ser
vant in act one, and utterly hateful as 
Victorias husband, Martin, in act two.
CloudNine is a play that will, no doubt, 
gamer a wide range of opinions. The
man seated to my right whispered 
that he was ready to walk out, while 
the man on my left was having a 
blast.
After some mulling over, I rather 
enjoyed this play and its production 
in the Kresge. The central gimmick 
of Churchills scriptthe time jump 
seems to say that between parents 
and their children, there is 100 years 
of difference and 
change. Not such an 
original idea, but 
Churchills han
dling of it is unique 
and interesting.
There is, how
ever, one serious 
flaw in the script 
that was eating at 
me all through act 
two. Betty, the 
mother, who is 
flighty, insecure, 
and a little uptight 
in act one, suddenly 
becomes malleable 
and unbelievable in 
act two.
Her change of 
heart, her decision 
to accept her chil
dren and their 
sexual mores, feels 
forced. One never 
gets the sense that 
this character 
would loosen up so 
dramatically and 
quickly. Compli
ments to Chae Lian 
who skillfully pulls off this inconsis
tent character in act two.
The production is definitely worth 
seeing. Hitch and the actors handle 
the blocking in a smooth and often 
humorous way. In spite of some in
consistency, this is a solid show.
Cloud Nine is playing in the 
Kresge Theatre through Feb. 22. 
For tickets or more information, 
call x8-2407.
University Relations
New movie shines
By SCOTT SHELL
Tartan Staffwriter
Every so often, when Hollywood seems 
generic and plots seem recycled, we ask 
ourselves, Where are the good movies? 
And sometimes one comes along to reinvigorate the film industry. This time it is 
a relatively unhyped Australian picture 
called Shine. And simply put, Shine is 
an outstanding film.
What: Shine 
Director: Scott Hicks 
Company: Fine Line Features
and family, and David, heart-strained, 
collapses. On the brink of an interna
tional career, he retires from the pieCho 
and enters a period of depression ajid 
confusion.
Thus, like a musical piece, the fijm 
returns to where it began, years ajjjer 
the breakdown. From that point, it fol
lows Helfgott in his search of paterrjal 
resolution and musical recognition. Efis 
battle is not conscious nor physickl. 
Rather, it is internal, seen in glimpses, 
moments of this geniuss 
idiosyncrasies.
Playing the young and old Helfgo^ts 
respectively, Noah Taylor and Geoffrfey 
Rush give remarkable performances 
that rival those of the pianist himsejlf. 
Their portrayal moves him between a  
simple-minded, silly, confused char
acter and a deeply passionate indi
vidual who thrives on musical cofnFilmmaker Scott Hick captured a 
heartening biography and translated it 
through the music of film. The story is 
based on the life of prodigal pianist David 
Helfgott. The film deals with this plot in plexity. The character is so well-cjecounterpoint: Davids history is split be- fined that one need not relate to the 
tween his teen and adultyears. The story difficulty of the pieces, or even mufeibegins with the adult David in search of cal principle, to understand their ch^lhimself and remembering years past; lenge and energy. Also amazing;is
through these flashbacks we learn of the 
history preceding his mental breakdown.
The conflict essentially develops as a 
love-hate relationship between Helfgott 
and his father, Peter. As a young boy,
David refuses his __________________
fathers strict 
control and 
leaves to pursue 
piano study 
abroad. Peter re
signs as father ~~
and ousts David
from the family. The boy, despite his 
passion and musical genius, is torn 
internally  he still loves and needs his 
father.
David begins his studies in London 
under the masterful Cecil Parkes who 
sees moments of genius in him. The 
two work to prepare Helfgott for per
forming the hardest of all pieces: the 
monumental Rachmaninoff Third Pi
ano Concerto. And what a performance 
it is. Awe-stricken, the teachers give
ArminMueller-Stahrs rendering of Pe
ter. He manages polar traits and com
mands them with incredible language 
and voice.
Hicks directing is absorbent. Wiith
This movie unquestionably shines. 
It is as powerful as it is personal 
as talented as its characters. 
incredible cinematography and a mqving soundtrack, he pulls the audienlce 
in and shares an intimate piece ! of 
someones life. The audience feels the 
rot of the father-son bond and the pain 
when Peter hurts David, emotionally 
and physically. The audience is thebe ', 
engulfed as the pianist is with His 
music. Never mind the accents ! 
theyre never even noticed.
This movie unquestionably shines.! It 
is as powerful as it is personal, as talClassical guitarist performs 
with Shangai String Quartet
By ADAM KLIVANS
Tartan Staffwriter
Last Monday, the second con
cert of the Pittsburgh Chamber 
Music series took place in 
Carnegie Music Hall on Forbes 
Avenue. Guitarist Eliot Fisk and 
the Shanghai String Quartet 
greeted the audience with an 
eclectic musical program includ
ing works by Beethoven, 
Boccherini, Brouwer, and Zhou 
Long. Known among guitarists 
as one of the great technical vir
tuosos of our time, Fisk has made 
truly dazzling recordings of 
guitar transcriptions. The con
cert provided a rare opportu
nity to experience the unique 
sonorities of a guitar quintet. 
Unfortunately, the quintets 
fumbling performance failed 
to convince anyone that this 
combination of instruments is 
indeed meritorious.
The first piece, the string 
quartet Song of the Chin, 
was composed in 1982 by Chi
nese composer Zhou Long. It 
seems that incorporating mu
sical impressions from ones 
home land into western classi
cal music is in fashion among 
composers today. This trend 
has led to the proliferation of 
ersatz folk music. The Song 
of the Chin is no exception. 
Filled with clich Chinese 
motifs, this work fares only 
slightly better than scores from 
low-budgetKungFu movies. The 
second- rate performance of the 
Shanghai Quartet did not help.
Following the Long quartet, 
Fisk joined the ensemble to per
form perhaps the most antici
pated musical event of the 
evening, Leo Brouwers Quartet 
for Guitar and Strings. A Cuban 
composer, Brouwer is widely regarded to be the greatest guitar 
composer of the twentieth cen
tury; Even among those who na
ively relegate the guitar to an 
inferior position in the classical 
instrument hierarchy, Brouwers 
characteristic musical voice is 
considered stunningly original. 
Despite such great musical ma
terial, Fisk and the Shanghai 
quartet proved to be surprisingly 
unconvincing. Their performance 
lacked any form of subtle interac
tion between quartet and guitar
ist, as many of the delicate guitar 
lines disappeared into the 
quartets insensitive accompaniCourtesy of ICM Artists 
Elliot Fisk played at Carnegie Music Hall 
last week.
ment. The fact that the guitar 
was not amplified properly only 
made it more difficult to hear the 
intricacies of the piece.
Fisk left the stage after the 
Brouwer so that the Shanghai 
Quartet could perform the 
Beethoven Quartet in F major 
(Op. 18, No. 1). Although I am a 
strong supporter of daring musical programs, this staple of the 
19th century European repertoire 
clashed with the other less-conventional pieces on the bill. Fur
thermore, the performance of the 
Shanghai quartet was an exer
cise in mediocrity; their interpre
tation lacked the wit and energy 
needed to animate this compli
cated Beethoven work.
After intermission, Fisk re
turned to perform Rossiniana, 
a work by Italian classical com
poser Mauro Giuliani. A mini
opera for guitar, as Fisk called 
it, this piece combines popular 
themes from several Rossini 
operas into a 15 minute fan
tasy.
Playing lightning fast ar
peggios and scales, Fisk used 
this work to demonstrate his 
monstrous technique. Little, 
if any, real substance could be 
derived from the piece, and 
the audience was forced to 
suffer through a pretentious 
display of musical affectation.
Fisk rejoined the quartet 
for the final work on the pro
gram, Boccherinis Quintet in 
D major (G. 448). Boccherini 
wrote several delightful pieces 
for guitar quintets, which are 
quite popular.
The quintets playing for 
the first three movements was 
adequate, though slightly 
plodding at times. The Fan
dango, however, allowed the 
ensemble to give a rousing 
finale to a less than stunning 
evening. Fisks rasgueados 
(strumming) combined with the 
quartets enthusiastic support al
lowed for a glimpse of the guitar 
quintets true potential. Leaving 
the audience with a hint of what 
could have been, Fisk and the 
Shanghai quartet finished with 
an air of disappointment.
Helfgott a standing ovation, unheard of ented as its characters. In the black of 
in a conservatory. But the pieces emo- stock films and generic acting, Shine, is 
tional power recalls memories of father the surprising radiant star.
Band debuts strong album
By TOM LIN
Tartan Staffwriter
Any fan of Star Wars will in
stantly recognize the origin of 
the name of Nerf Herder. For 
those who are less dedicated, 
the name is a reference to a line 
in The Empire Strikes Back, in 
which Princess Leia calls Han 
Solo a half-witted, scruffy-looking nerf herder. Though the 
band has no affiliation with Star 
Wars in any way, it is definitely 
worth looking into based upon 
its own merits.
What: Nerf Herder 
Album: Nerf Herder 
Company: Arista
Records
Nerf Herder is a three-man 
band, with the standard guitarbass-drums combination. Parry 
Gripp is the lead singer as well 
as guitarist for the band. Steve 
Sherlock plays drums and helps 
Gripp write their songs. Finally, 
Charlie Dennis is the bassist for 
Nerf Herder. Though they have 
somewhat limited resources to 
work with, what they have pro
duced is amazingly good. It is 
clear from an initial playing that 
Nerf Herder has lots of talent, as 
well as a promising future. With 
imaginative, fun songs and 
catchy hooks, every song on this 
album is listenable and enjoy
able.
First of all, perhaps the best 
thing about this band is ... well, 
actually, its hard to pick out 
just one characteristic to label 
the best when there are so 
many good things about the 
band. The lyrics, however, are 
definitely a strong point. They 
are intelligent, funny, and even 
self-mocking at times. A good 
example of lyrical style can be 
found in I only eat candy, a 
silly ditty about rather question
able nutritional habits. I dont 
kill / and I dont murder or manu
facture atomic weapons! An
other prime example of the gen
eral feel of their lyrics can be 
found inGolfshirt, an attempt 
to convince a girl that the object 
of her affections will soon be the 
speaker. Im not the one who 
was in a high school hard core 
band /1 sat in my room / scoring 
with Ms. Pac Man / and when 
youre tired of all the jerks / and 
youre tired of all the work / and 
youre tired of being hurt / you 
will long for the comfort of my 
golf shirt.
Another good point about the 
band is the quality of every track 
on the album. Everybody has 
bought records that have one or 
two decent songs on it, the rest 
being garbage. This is not one of 
those records. Each song is well 
done, catchy, and very melodic.
In short, you will listen to every
thing on this album, instead of 
skipping around to hear tW(J or 
three good tracks. One last'tfice 
thing about the NerfHerden ft is 
one of those albums that se;er{i to 
grow better with more placing ' 
time, as opposed to those th&tet  
old and tired seemingly overnight.' ' 
You know the kind. Youve .prob
ably bought the kind.
Besides these points, there&re 
numerous lesser reasons to cil^ck 
out Nerf Herder, such as- :the 
masterful bass lines and the'^ubtly humorous lyrics.
I highly recommend this alburn 
to just about anyone who likes 
music that is light, fun, and intel
ligent. The only problem with ithe 
album is the length. Clocking in 
at just over half an hour, $erf 
Herder seems way too shorfcr.JAfter its over, youll be asking 
for more.
Courtesy of Arista Recbrds, 
Nerf Herder took their name from a line in the movie, Star Wars.

---------------------------------------------------

L12MUi Mncrne a snceitui oiffle Geuyicmurq a xR vipcbncq xggR
films arrive at video stores
By WLADIMIR LABEIKOVSKY
Tartan Staffwriter
Very often in this country, the most 
interesting and better movies dont even 
get "exhibited. At best we can hope for 
elusive video appearances or one-timeonly showings in low-profile film series. 
Tw9 such movies just passed by you. 
The Worm in L.A.
Notes from Underground is an adap
tation of the novel of the same name by 
Dovstoevski, and as such, it is an inter
esting piece. The underground man of 
the'story is a common citizen with an 
overdeveloped cynicism and an elabo
rate and skewed ethics system. By day 
he is a city clerk (apparently the professiori of choice for existentialists), and by 
night he agonizes over his life and that of 
thoSe around him, a rat fully conscious 
of the rat race but still racing out of 
spite. The setting of the movie is mod
ernL. A., which provides a laughably 
perfect background for the characters 
despising of societys frivolity.
From an actors point of view, the 
character of the underground man can 
be; given to many interpretations. One 
can' imagine an MTV version of this
story with the lead being a grunge hero, 
the deep guy trying to Tceep it real. A 
Hollywood version might have had Tom 
Hanks wringing his way through the 
monologues (and then falling in love 
with the prostitute). Gary Walkows ver
sion sees the underground man for what 
he is. Henry Czernys performance hints 
at the different faces of this man, a 
troubled man longing for purity and at 
the same time a man who is almost a 
caricature of righteousness and self-deprecation. Czerny (reduced in Hollywood 
to villainous henchman roles) reminds 
us what a younger Jeremy Irons might 
have done with this part.
This film version of Notes from Under
ground suffers from a little artistic selfconsciousness. The austere sets and the 
expressionistic tendency of the art di
rection gives some scenes a removed 
feel, as if they were being imagined 
somewhere in the head of its director or 
as if this were the adaptation of a mod
ern play. A grittier feel might have made 
the final point more convincing. But at 
the end this remains a promising piece 
both for its director and its lead actors. 
Zen Formalisms
Why has Bodhi-Dharma Left for the
East? is a fantastically beautiful poem 
of a movie. Though made in 1989, it was 
part of this years Asian series at the 
Carnegie Museum of Art. Touted by Sight 
& Sound as one of the best movies of all 
time, it can be seen as a synthesis of all 
that real cinema tries to accomplish. 
The photography, montage, and struc
ture might remind us of classic art films. 
But while many of those stood only on 
the virtue of these technical aspects, 
Bodhi-Dharma goes the extra step in 
incorporatingits spiritual (or philosophi
cal, depending on your hemisphere) 
messages into images and sound.
The movie follows a Zen monk as he is 
assigned to care for a hermit master. 
While he seems sure of his calling, soon 
he learns what it takes to lead the real 
spiritual life and comes to doubt his 
shunning of the world.
It is a truly magical movie; and I dont 
mean the magic that commercials say 
you see when John Travolta predicts 
earthquakes. It is indeed a movie that 
has to be seen to be believed.
Why has Bodhi-Dharma left for the 
East? is already available on video but 
you will have to wait a while for Notes 
from Underground to come out.
CD needs less glitz, better music
By BRENDAN BOSWORTH
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
If youve listened to the Beatles Abbey 
Road or Pink Floyds Dark Side of the 
Moon, then youre familiar with some of 
Alaii Parsonss work as a producer. His 
ne\v multimedia project, On Air, is a 
two-disc package that includes an audio 
CD and CD-ROM. Though his name is 
oriJ the cover, Parsonss only musical 
contributions to the album are as cosongwriter on one song and keyboardist 
on a few others. After a few listens to the 
CD, Id warn Beatles and Pink Floyd 
fails not to get too excited.
Who: Alan Parsons
What: On Air
Label: River North Records
Alan is joined by long-time collaborator's lan Bairnson (guitars) and Stuart 
Elliott (drums), as well as Gary Sanctu
ary (keyboards) and John Giblin (bass). 
Multiple guest vocalists are featured on 
th lbum, including Steve Overland, 
Christopher Cross, and a sample of one 
of John F. Kennedys legendary speeches. 
At best, On Air is reminiscent of Pink
Floyds legendary soundscapes and tri
umphant guitar work. At worst, it is a 
collection of trite lyrics and eighties 
synth-pop songwriting. (Dig up those 
Starship, A-ha, and Duran Duran tapes). 
The songs get stale quickly, as does the 
history of mankinds great will to fly 
concept from which 
the entire package 
draws inspiration.
The lack of good 
songs on the CD 
and uninteresting 
content of the CDROM turn a seem
ingly cutting 
edge release into 
a mere gimmick.
Included in the CDROM are lyrics, a 
lesson in the phys
ics of an airplane 
wing, and illustra
tions and photo
graphs documenting failed attempts at 
human flight. Your time is better spent 
surfing the web or browsing a CD-ROM 
encyclopedia.
Despite the disappointing content, On 
Air is one of the best-produced releases
Ive seen recently. The sharp cover art 
by Storm Thorgerson (Pink Floyd, Led 
Zeppelin), orchestral arrangements by 
Andrew Powell, and CD-ROM show that 
Parsons knows how to put together an 
attractive package. He has been awarded 
for his concert recordings, the European 
stage musical
Freudiana, and his 
work with the London 
Philharmonic Orches
tra on Symphonic Mu
sic ofYes. Parsonss lat
est release, however, 
suggests that he should 
stick with outside pro
duction work. If he had 
spent less time putting 
on the glitz, and more 
time bringing together 
inventive musicians 
and compositions, On 
Air might have been a 
worthy project. Instead, 
it is not much more than a coffee table 
book and department store soundtrack 
for the 21st century, wrapped up in a cute 
little jewel case. Save your time and 
money, and pop Dark Side of the Moon in 
your stereo for the thousandth time.
Courtesy of River North Records 
On Air lacks exciting content.
Only fools rush in 
to see new movie
By JOY FERGUSON
Tartan Staffwriter
If youre in the mood for a cute and 
predictable romantic comedy, Fools 
Rush In is a decent choice.
I What: Fools Rush In 
Director: Andy Tennant 
1 Company: Columbia Pictures
Its the classic story of boy meets 
girl, boy knocks girl up, boy marries 
girl. Then boy and girl fight a lot. But 
wait! Boy sees ultrasound of girls baby 
and everything is okay  true love 
prevails. Five minutes later, boy has 
to decide between his job or his family. 
Girl leaves. Boy goes looking for girl, 
and well, I wont ruin the rest of the 
story for you since Im sure you have 
no idea what will happen.
Matthew Perry, best known as the 
hilarious Chandler on NBCs Friends, 
is Alex Whitman, 
a career-driven 
New Yorker sent 
out to start a club 
in Las Vegas. He 
meets Isabel 
Fuentes, a familyoriented Mexican 
girl played by 
Salma Hayek, 
who starred oppo
site Antonio 
Banderas in Des
perado. Isabel is a 
bigbeliever in des
tiny and tells Alex 
that there are
sat there at times wondering when it 
was going to be over. Coming from his 
hilarious role on Friends, I was ex
pecting Perry to be a little more hu
morous. Instead, he spends most of 
the movie with a sad face on, trying to 
figure out how best to deal with his 
situation. And who can blame him? He 
has to deal not only with a new wife he 
doesnt really know, but also with his 
wifes protective Catholic family, es
pecially her overbearing father. Even 
though he is lacking some ofhis Friends 
humor, he plays his given role quite 
well.
The most I can say of Isabel is that 
shes cute. A little too cute with her 
perky little its fate attitude. But she 
does cry and yell a lot too.
Perrys father in the movie is played 
by his real-life father, John Bennett 
Perry, and I found his role to be a 
whole lot funnier than his sons. The 
mother, played by Jill Clayburgh, is a
signs every
where. So when Alex knocks her up, 
they decide its a sign to get married.
The rest of the movie deals with Alex 
and Isabel trying to make it as a mar
ried couple who really didnt know 
each other before they took their vows. 
Coming from two totally different 
worlds, they try to get along as well as 
they can while still maintaining their 
own individuality. Theyre supposed 
to be the Lucy and Ricardo of the 90s
Columbia Pictures
Mathew Perry (Alex) and Salma Hayek (Isabel) get married 
on their second date in Fools Rush In.
crack-up too. They do their job well, 
acting as the typical white, clueless 
parents. In fact, everyone in the movie 
is typical. I guess that isnt so bad, just 
predictable.
On a good note, the movie does a 
nice job of combining several unique 
cultures. Going from New York to 
Las Vegas to Central Mexico and 
back again, the film allows for some 
beautiful exposure to different
but I probably wouldnt go that far. Of people and scenery. But when it 
course, as with all romantic comedies, comes down to it, Fools Rush In is 
true love wins out for the couple in just your typical, predictable, 
the end. slightly funny, romantic comedy. I
The movie isnt all that bad. But I wouldnt see it a second time.
Four-Day eDayyac 
s tCrn g iyAyrCl m-CcrM
At PE Applied Biosystems, were creating products that change the 
way researchers identify and analyze the building blocks of life. Our 
technology has literally changed the shape of science and has pro
pelled a new field in software engineering, offering exciting career 
opportunities with a genetic twist!
Here, you'll capitalize on your skills and be appreciated as a valuable 
contributor to our leading team. We currently have challenging oppor
tunities for engineers interested in working on a variety of exciting 
and innovative products. We offer the opportunity to interact with 
other talented professionals who are equally committed to the devel
opment of emerging technologies.
SOFTWARE ENGINEERS
All positions require a BS/MS in CS, EE or physics. A background 
and interest in the life sciences would be a definite plus.
In just the last year, genes for breast cancer, skin cancer, Alzheimers, 
disease and hypertension have been identified by dedicated profes
sionals using PE Applied Biosystems instrumentation, reagents and 
software. If you too are interested in positively contributing to break
throughs in human disease research, representatives will be on-hand 
to discuss the exciting and challenging career opportunities available 
at PE Applied Biosystems!
We will be on campus February 18th to meet you! 
We look forward to seeing you then.
In exchange for your talents,we offer a competitive salary and bene
fits package with advancement potential for your career. For consid
eration, please send your resume, indicating position of interest to:
PE Applied Biosystems, Human Resources Department, 850 Lincoln 
Centre Drive, Foster City, CA 94404. You may also fax to (415) 638- 
5874, email us at biocareer@perkin-elmer.com, or see our home 
page on the WWW at http://www.perkin-elmer.com for more details. 
PE Applied Biosystems is an equal opportunity employer.
Hewlett transforms 
into womb-like tomb
PE Applied Biosystems
A DIVISION OF PER KIN-ELM ER
HEWLETT, from page LI
states of the human condition ... 
BLEHHH!!!! but it does smell 
neat... kind of smoky and floral... 
hmmmmm...
Interrupting my cynical tirade, 
the docent asked, Would you like 
to go in? Leaving the well-lit 
bustling world and glaring steril
ity of February weather sounded 
appealing, so I plunged into the 
Passage. Candle smoke tickled 
my nose, while whispering and 
murmuring voices that were just 
unintelligible taunted my ears. 
A heart was beating loudly 
and slowly. Was it mine? 
Beneath my feet, hay, 
sticks, and leaves 
crunched, bringing to 
mind a barn or manger or 
a secluded dell in some 
forest. The walls on either 
side were made of hun
dreds of sacks, some more 
pillow-like than others.
The sacks, bags, pillows, 
whatever they were, were 
made worn and familiar 
by their muted and almost 
dirty colors and patterns, 
by the frayed threads 
hanging from them, by the stretch 
of their seams at the touch and by 
the rustle of the earth materi
als inside them. The shapes and 
glimmers of small things tucked 
in the crevices between the pil
lows caught my eyes and de
manded to be deciphere. In the 
dimness, solitude, and familiar
ity of The Passage associations 
and images of refuge and age 
began to crowd my mind.
After leaving the seclusion and 
enveloping dark of Wolfs Pas
sage, it would be shallow to
dedication and craftsmanship 
that went into making the hang
ings outside the passages and the 
pillows within them. Passage 
could perhaps be praised for its 
use of mixed media. The most 
noteworthy thing about this in
stallation are the ideological con
cepts of death and birth that it 
emulates and evokes. The instal
lation attempts the impossible * 
by trying to make us recall a 
time before we could think (in ; 
the womb) and a time we have : 
yet to experience (in the grave), :
merely commend the obvious
Lisette Miller-Dlxon/ Tartan Photo Staff 
The Hewlett offers various weekly exhibits.
and one is forced to draw upon 
images supplied by society  
consequently, the installation 
leaves something to be desired. 
Perhaps the title of the instal
lation is the best way to ap
proach it.
Though still a little too pre
sumptuous and trendy for my 
taste, when examined as a pas
sage, as an experience that de
fines and connects two distinct 
eras, Wolfs installation is more 
easily related to individual 
lives and histories and much 
more satisfying.

---------------------------------------------------

MUi Mncrne a snceitui oiffle Geuyicmurq a xR vipcbncq xggRLxd
DH 2210
1-1111111   111
movies you may have seen before.,
BY GREG MARCKS
Thursday, February 20
Hoop Dreams
Do you remember that guy on The Fat Albert Show 
who wore a hat over his face with two eyeholes cut 
out? Hes not in this movie. Hes not even real.
This movie is real. Its a documentary, and a long 
one to boot. These two camera crews film everything 
two high school kids do for like four years on the 
outside chance that one or both of them might 
become NBA all-stars. (Call Vegas if you want the 
odds on that one.) Luckily, some patient editors 
taped together the highlights for you. I like the 
scene where this guy eats a fruit cup, and then 
realizes hes late for work. Chock full o fancy foot
work, this movie is a big ol basketball bonanza.
At 7:30 and 11 pm
In DH 2210
Friday, February 21
Do the Right Thing
This is a Spike Lee joint, not the kind youre 
careful not to bum your fingertips on. Its a movie, 
see, and its made in New York because Hollywood 
is nowhere near there. It takes place in Brooklyn on 
the hottest day of the summer, so hot that all the 
buildings turn red.
Featuring Danny Aiello as the inimitable Mookie, 
this flick also showcases the younger talents of 
Samuel L. Jackson, Rosie Perez, Bob Dole, and 
Martin Lawrence. Celebrate black history month by 
checking out one of Spike Lees most celebrated 
films, then redeem your ticket stub for afree wiffleball 
bat at any local deli. (Bats may not exist.)
At 7:30, 10 pm, and 12:30 am
In DH 2210
Saturday, February 22
Mr. Hollands Opus
I always made fun of music teachers, and for good 
reason. Theyre just gym teachers without whistles 
and soiled mesh hats that happen to teach music 
instead of gym. One time I threw a chocolate cup
cake at my music teacher, and she made me copy the 
dictionary. But I got her back. After school I stuck a 
banana in her dog.
Anyway, Mr. Holland is Richard Dreyfuss and he 
helps out hundreds of kids whose lives would have 
sucked fetid donkey kidneys without clarinet les
sons. This is a big, fat Forrest Gumpish movie with 
plenty of time passing by and saxophones ready for 
their annual wax convention. Snorkel.
At 7:30, 10 pm, and 12:30 am
In McConomy
Sunday, February 23
Eyes Without a Face
I still maintain that a Smurf has only one dimpled 
eye with two pupils floating around in it. I figure if 
youre quick enough you could knock one of them 
down and both pupils would flop into one side of his 
face. Smurfette was hot.
Obviously this film is about surfing. More specifi
cally, it is a black-and-white 1959 French film called 
Les Yeux sans visage about a doctor who kidnaps 
young girls, cuts their faces off, and grafts them to 
his daughters head. Then he goes surfing. Hmm, 
surrealicious.
At 8, 10 pm, and 12 am
In McConomy
Name the Quote:
Spearmint, or fruit?
(Last weeks answer: Anthony Michael Hall in 
Sixteen Candles)
Movie mixes mystery with morals
by DAVE ELMAN
Tartan Staffwriter
At first glace, Absolute Power 
would seem to have a number of 
parallels to another movie re
cently reviewed, Shadow Con
spiracy. Like Shadow Conspiracy, 
Absolute Power has a government 
cover-up and a man striving for 
justice. Unlike the Charlie Sheen 
movie, however, Absolute Power 
provides us with a plot that makes 
sense and a story that has gritty 
potential. Tthe movie becomes 
less interesting after its promis
ing opening minutes.
What: Absolute Power 
^Director: Clint Eastwood 
Company: Castle Rock 
Entertainment
The film is set up with the early 
scene in which Eastwood, who 
plays a seasoned thief, breaks 
into a palatial mansion. Every
thing goes as he planned, until he 
hears voices approaching in the 
supposedly empty house. He 
quickly retreats to a secret room 
and watches a curious scene take 
place. Let me just say that it 
involves rough sex which evolves 
into somethingborderingonrape,
blood, and several people. Now 
we are confronted with the main 
message of the film  whose 
moral character is more 
upright, that of Eastwood 
or that of the politician at 
the center of the cover-up 
(played by Gene Hack
man)? This seems a rather 
silly question to ask since 
it has such a clear-cut and 
simple answer. Who are 
we more likely to sympa
thize with, a trained thief 
who witnesses a murder 
or a politician who is quite 
obviously abusing his ab
solute power?
I was rather disap
pointed with Absolute 
Power, perhaps because I 
expectedittobe something 
it was not. What I thought 
I was about to see was a 
pohticalthrillerin the vein 
ofIn the Line of Fire (which 
also starred Eastwood), 
but what I saw was a mo
rality play revolving 
around the abuse of power.
tion. Instead, he tries to elicit a 
knee-jerk response to our heros 
predicament of what action, if
 1997 Castle Rock Entertainment 
Gene Hackman plays a corrupt politician.
There are plenty of other reasons any, he should take. In addition, 
why I may have been let down, the humor laced throughout the 
The screenplay by William movie almost overwhelms the plot 
Goldman is severely in need of at points, where it really should 
teeth that will grab our atten- only accent things.
The acting varies from scene to  
scene, but some exchanges didnt 
work well at all, such as the first 
between Eastwood and 
his daughter played by 
Laura Linney. Every
thing seemed forced, 
with a wooden Eastwood  
and an overacting;, 
Linney. They didnt for a 
moment convince me 
that I was watching a 
father and daughter re- . 
uniting for the first time 
in a year. Also not con
vincing was Judy Davis 
as Gloria Russell, an as-. 
sistant of sorts to Hackman. For the most part, 
Hackman and Ed Har
ris, who plays the detec
tive on the case, give 
good performances, as- , 
does E.G. Marshall as 
the man whose house 
was robbed.
Eastwod produced, di
rected, and starred in 
the movie. Absolute 
Power's failure is not re
ally Eastwoods fault; its the un
derlying concept that needs to be 
reinforced. Its a shame that the 
rest of the film isnt like the direc
tion  crisp.
Superman comic gets mixed reviews
COMIC BOOK 
CHRONICLES
by. Jason Andracki & 
Max Chittister
The Pro Side
Morbid curiosity. Thats what 
best describes my thoughts on 
the upcoming changes in DCs 
Superman books. I have been 
through it all with Superman  
revamp in the 80s and death and 
rebirth in the 90s  so Im not 
about to drop one of my favorite 
books just due to some changes. 
At least not yet.
I managed to read preview is
sues of Adventures of Superman 
#545 and Action Comics #732, 
the issues in which Superman 
undergoes his power change. 
These issues will be out March 20 
and 27 respectively. While they 
are still an unfinished product
they show what the excitement is 
all about even though the cos
tume change hasnt taken place.
What impressed me most about 
this story is I found myself frus
trated at Supermans lack of con
trol over his new energy based 
powers. The writers, Karl Kesel 
and Dave Micheline, do an excel
lent job of conveying the help
lessness that Superman feels. 
Action Comics #732 ends with 
Superman telling Lois that not 
all stories have happy endings. 
Lets hope that isnt true for this 
couple that just got married after 
years of being apart.
After these two issues Super
man is still on my buy list. The 
costume change may alter that 
since I think Supermans costume 
is an American institution and 
shouldnt be drastically altered. 
The Con Side
Ordinarily, I do not read the 
Superman family of titles. Every 
once in a while, if theres a guest 
writer or artist I like, I might pick 
up an issue, but I never felt like I 
was missing something by not 
reading them.
After reading previews of Ac
tion Comics 732 (on newsstands
this Wednesday) andAdventures 
of Superman 545, I do feel like 
Ive lost somethingmany valu
able brain cells, which died nobly 
as I tried to figure out why in the 
world these comics were ever 
written.
As most of you have probably 
heard by now, DC Comics is re
vamping Superman, giving him 
a new, electric blue costume and 
new, electric blue powers. Why? I 
think he lost his powers a couple 
months ago or something. I 
havent been paying attention to 
the setup.
But thats all right, because the 
writers (the usually reliable Kesel 
and Michelinie) dont pay any at
tention to the setup in these two 
comics. Suddenly, on page two, 
Hghtening comes from Supermans 
eyes for no apparent reason. Over 
the next two issues, he never takes 
any action, instead letting his pow
ers carry him along.
The writers apparently dont 
trust the artists at all. Every
thing that is conveyed in the vi
suals is also described in the voice 
bubbles, with such deeply insight
ful lines as Clark! Youre falling 
right through the wall!
The artists, for their part, ap
parently were afraid someone, 
would forget that Superman was 
toning into Blue Fire Guy, be
cause he never appears without 
one or two bits of flame spouting 
out of his chest. Maybe this will 
look more subtle once color is. 
added, but Im skeptical.
This new development has the 
potential to breathe much-needed 
life into a franchise thats beenhurting for quality since before 
The Death of Superman *TM*. 
But, much like the Death *TM*y I 
figure theyll have changed ev
erything back before the Stanley, 
Cup finals. When it comes right 
down to it, this feels like a stunt, 
to boost sales, and since I didnt; 
start buying during the last three. 
gimmicks, Im not going to start  
during this one.
Jason Andracki is a senior pro
fessional writing major. Although 
the power change is OK now, hes 
still hoping it is a temporary ploy 
to boost comic sales.
Max Chittister is a junior 
creative and professional writ
ing major.Audience gambles with Vegas Vacation
By RYAN SCHILLING
Tartan Staffwriter
The National Lampoons Vaca
tion movies were always some
thing special. No matter how 
many times I watched them, they 
threw me into fits of uncontrol
lable laughter. Even better was 
that the sequels were better than 
their predecessors.
| What: Vegas Vacation 
Director: Stephen Kessler 
1 Company: Warner Bros.
I watch Christmas Vacation 
every Christmas as diligently as 
TBS runs Its A Wonderful Life, 
and yet it never fails to put me on 
the floor. Admittedly, this is not 
high-brow humor, but sometimes 
I want to laugh without having to 
think. Consequently, I had high 
expectations for Vegas Vacation.
The first things I noticed about 
the movie were on the marquee 
poster as we were walking in the 
theater. The title was not pre
ceded by National Lampoons, 
and the movie was rated PG 
rather than PG-13 and R like the 
other three. Others may disagree, 
but I think these movies were 
funny specifically because they 
were crass. These bad signs cor
rectly foreshadowed a poor movie.
The plot is simple enough. Clark 
Griswold (Chevy Chase) designs 
a hot new food preservative and 
receives a lot of money as a bo
nus. So the Griswolds decide to 
take a family vacation to Las
Vegas. In the City of Lights, 
Audrey, the daughter (film new
comer Marisol Nichols), becomes 
a Vegas entertainer, and Ellen, 
the wife, whose role is once again 
played by Beverley DAngelo, falls 
in lust with Wayne Newton, as 
himself. Rusty (Ethan Embry, the 
bassist in That Thing You Do), 
the son, cant stop winning in the 
casinos (he eventually accumu
lates four cars), whereas Clark 
loses a small fortune, mostly at 
the hands of blackjack dealer 
Marty.
This wonderfully obnoxious 
dealer is played by Wallace 
Shawn (the Inconceivable! guy 
from The Princess Bride) and is 
one of the few highlights of the 
movie.
Sounds crazy enough to be hi
larious? Shouldve been, couldve 
been  wasnt. Somehow the 
writers pulled off all these differ
ent things without keeping the 
audience interested or enter
tained.
One of the bigger problems was 
that for most of the film the fam
ily was split up. Because of that, 
scenes were constantly changing, 
often leaving the mo^n.e to rely on 
cheap, quick visual gags. There 
was simply no time left to develop 
some of the better scenes. A good 
example of this is after Rusty 
won big in the casinos. There was 
a lot of promise for hysteria with 
the teenager living the high life 
as Nick Pappa Giorgio (the name 
on his fake ID), but the audience 
was instead given a couple of
quick takes.
Not even the supporting cast, 
who were half the fun in the 
previous three, could save Ve
gas. Wayne Newton was just 
plain boring, and Randy Quaid, 
who in my opinion was the star 
of Christmas Vacation as 
Cousin Eddie, reprises his role, 
but to little comic effect. Not 
that it was Quaids fault. His 
execution was as redneck as pos
sible. It was the writings fault, 
and this is the central problem 
of the movie. How they con
vinced the executives at Warner . 
Bros, that this was funny is 
quite beyond my capacity. Word 
of mouth and a poor marketing 
effort will force this movie into 
a short, painful death at the 
theaters and it will soon be ap
pearing at a video store 
near you.
same namprWei aggeh Eax
THE SUN, THE MOON AND THE STARS, 
v
THESH U N,MMNO ADRO DDTN MD OURMH.
As a new graduate, you will hear career promises from varied companies. Many will offer the 
opportunity to be entrepreneurial, innovative, and creative. But take a good look. Do they have 
competitive products? Market demand? The resources and stability for the long run?
PairGain Technologies does. We are a world leader in the design, manufacture, and marketing 
of High-bit-rate Digital Subscriber Line (HDSL), products and systems. We have been listed 
ninth by Fortune and 3rd by Inc. in their ranking of the country's fastest-growing public 
companies. With annual revenues in excess of $200 million and a 70 percent market share, our 
promise of a stellar future is a down-to-earth proposition. Put your engineering degree to work 
in one of the following areas:
Analog and Digital Circuit Design Engineers
 Communications Systems Engineers
 Firmware Engineers
 Software Engineers 
VLSI Design Engineers
Find out more about our company by talking to us during on-campus interviews on Saturday, 
February 22. Please sign up in advance atthe Career Service Center. Or if you're unable to 
meet with us, please forward a resume to: PairGain Technologies, Inc., Human Resources 
DeptKP/CMU, 14402 Franklin Avenue, Tustin, CA 92780; fax (714) 730-3199; email 
hr@pairgain.com. Equal Opportunity Employer.
 PairGainhBr wt66r.,6fT;b ;tp6od3
http://www.pairgain.com

---------------------------------------------------

Hoop Dreams 
will play at 7:30 and 11 pm on 
Thursday in Dtf 2210.
Do the Right Thing 
will pltiy (it7:30,10 pm, and 
12:30.arn on FnUiyinDH 2210. fl|
Lovo Me and You'll See 
Madagascar ^
will play at 8 pm on 
' Friday, and 2:30 LiLL on Saturday 
at the Carnegie Museum of Art.
Ermo gg
rfplayat.8jJjm.onf'
Saturday and 2:30 pm on Sunday1  
at the Carnegie Museum o'{ Art. ^
Mr. Holland's Opus m
v/ilj.play at 7:30,10 pm, and 
12:30 am on Saturtiay in DH Ml
2210.SI
Eyes Without a Face gp
will play at 8,-lO pm. and 
midqi^hl on Sunday, in: 
McConomy Auditorium'.
m The Appointed
will play at 1:30 pm on 
February 23 and fesfljjn on 
_ February 24 at the Beehive.
Yes, tomorrow is 
National Fraction Day 
ML MLM fMAA ,T1! (4ghA2h!
B2EWL, RTEWL, R,EWL 
R,,, )OhE,,WI )OhE,,WI 
)OhE,,WI -,,?
Mercedes Chip, 
YOURE DA BOMB!
1 Y2)h INR212,E ,T1 ,f 1hMM 
TandD thanks for 
the roses and the 
pretty vase.
Feel better Becky
JWM I4M jTKME2AM -MA2E
qTME1). (AA 2) YMAA, YM4M R,1h 
)2AAL, IE- IN )12AA -2zzL...
A,KM  (
Say hello to my 
little friend
Viv babe,
you look hot tonight. Dont 
take less than $100 and call 
me when you're through. 
Take care of you.
Thanks for eating 
ice cream with me ;)
If E,1 IEL1h2Eg...AM1 
1hM4M RM 14T1h
Kat 
smells
You can advertise for 
free in The Tartan!
If you know of an event on or off cam
pus that has relevance to the campus 
community, email auyoung@andrew. 
cmu.edu or mail it to The Tartan, Box 
17 in the Carnegie Mellon University 
Center by the Wednesday before the 
date of the event.
Vox Populi is a forum open to the 
entire campus community! To submit a 
vox, simply email it to auyoung@ 
andrew.cmu.edu, send it to The Tartan, 
Box 17 via campus mail, or drop it in 
the Vox Populi drop box on the infamous 
Tartan Server.
Remember, the Vox reuses boxes 
and fills them with lox to give to the 
really red fox, Mr. Walkenstox.
aroundtown
Schenleylce Skating Rink is now open. 
College ID Nights, admission $2 with ID, 
will be held on Tuesday nights from 9:30 
to 11:30 pm, Sunday nights from 7 to 9 pm, 
and Wednesday afternoons from 1:30 to 
3:30 pm. Regular admission is $3. For more 
information, call Tbm Driscoll at 422-6523.
Pittsburgh Black Legends in Journal
ism will be featured in an exhibit in the 
Magovem B. Gallery at the Heinz Pitts
burgh Regional History Center running 
through March 7. For more information, 
please call 454-6000.
Chinda Institute International will 
hold its first monthly open house of the 
year on March 1 at 11 am, featuring a new 
family gym, so that parents can work out 
while their kids are in class. Senior Mas
ter and his instructors will present the 
Institutes philosophy as well as offer sev
eral demonstrations of the specifics of vari
ous courses. For more information, please 
call 821-1873.
readingseries
Common Grounds Coffeehouse: Spring 
1997 poetry reading series will feature 
Judy Meiksin and Jan Hardy on Tuesday, 
February 25. Open poetry will take place 
at 8 pm and scheduled readings at 8:30 
pm. For more information, call 362-1190.
Beehive Reading Series. Doug Banks 
and Alpay Ulku will be featured on Feb
ruary 20. All readings held upstairs at the 
Beehive Coffeehouse, 3807 Forbes Avenue. 
It will be open mike at 8 pm; scheduled 
readers at 8:30 pm. For more information, 
call 441-2859.
oncampus
The Not-So Naked Pool Party will be 
taking place in the UC on March 8 from 9 
pm to 12 am. There will be a movie showing 
in the pool along with food and music. This 
event is being hosted by Spirit of Skibo in 
conjunction with the UC.
Choosing an H&SS Major will be held 
on Tuesday, February 25 at 4:30 pm in 
Baker Hall 136A (the Adamson Wing). 
The program will focus on issues to consider 
when choosing a major and will feature 
faculty advisors from every H&SS 
department. Dont miss this chance to 
have your questions answered by the 
experts and learn more about opportunities 
available in H&SS! For more information,
please contact the H&SS Academic 
Advisory Center or the Career Center.
SDC Blood Drive, sponsored by SDC and 
the Student Life Office, will be taking 
place on Tuesday, February 25 from 11 am 
to 4:45 pm in the West Wing TV Room. A 
pair of Penguins tickets will be raffled off. 
A record of 128 donations was set last 
semester, and SDC would like to see that 
record broken.
music___________
Emily Remler Guitar Series will feature 
Kenny Burrell on April 5 and Mike Stem 
on May 3. Individual tickets are also avail
able. For tickets, please call 322-0800.
Brevard Music Center is conducting au
ditions for admission and research pur
poses on February 21 and 23. The audi
tions are open to instrumentalists inter
ested in summer study at Brevard Music 
Center. They will be held at Duquesne 
University School of Music from 12:30 pm 
to 4 pm on February 21, and at the Alumni 
Concert Hall on February 23 from 3 pm to 
6 pm. For more information or to schedule 
an audition, please contact Lynn Johnson 
at (704) 884-2975.
Music on the Edge, Pitts new music se
ries, invites established and emerging 
composers to submit scores to be consid
ered for performance at Two Evenings of 
Pittsburgh Premieres, a two-day event to 
be held next season. Send scores and a 
short biography by March 15:
Two Evenings of Pittsburgh Premieres 
Mathew Rosenblum 
210 Music Building 
University of Pittsburgh 
Pittsburgh, PA 15260
River City Brass Band will be perform
ing All the Worlds a Stage on March 15 
at 8 pm at the Carnegie Music Hall. All 
the Worlds a Stage will feature a lot of 
great and familiar work from theatre, op
eretta, and ballet by artists such as Irving 
Berlin and Gilbert & Sullivan. For more 
information, please contact Bill Schlageter 
at 322-7222.
Saturday Night Live: The Carnival En
tertainment Committee is considering the 
possibility of giving the Saturday of Car
nival a Saturday Night Live theme, lb 
make this happen, they need some 5-10 
minute skits/musical acts throughout the 
afternoon. The exact time and number of 
performances will be determined by the 
time of the concert Saturday afternoon. 
The performances can be about anything 
at all and can include any number of
people. Copies of the skits/demo tapes will 
be collected in the Carnival mailbox (#82) 
until March 7. Those selected will be no
tified before Spring Break. If you are in
terested, please email cgs@andrew.cmu. 
edu or send mail/scripts/demo tapes to: 
Chirag Shah 
Spring Carnival 
University Center, Box 82
Music on the Edge will feature an 
evening with Lee Hyla, Pitts 1997 Franz 
Lehar Composer-in-Residence on Febru
ary 24 at 8 pm in the Frick Fine Arts Au
ditorium. Hyla will speak about his new 
work Howl as well as play a performance 
of it. The evening will also feature some of 
Hylas other works. For more information, 
please contact Marilyn Locker at 624-4125.
Pittsburgh Summer ChoralFest will 
make its debut this year from June 14 
27. Eight days of rehearsal will be followed 
with a public concert. For all choral musi
cians interested in participating, the fee 
is $75. For more information, please con
tact Eric Haines at 734-3422.
Chauncey Upson Quartet will be per
forming on February 26 at The Balcony in 
Shadyside from 9 pm to 1 am. No cover. 
They will also be performing on March 1 
and 8 at the Panther Hollow Inn with 
Underdog from 10 pm to 2 am. For more 
information, please call x2-3748.
Anti-Flags North American Tour '97 
Kick Off Show will take place on Febru
ary 22 at 6:30 pm at Charlies. The show 
will also feature Press Gang, Master Me
chanic, Clubber Lang, and the Girls Life 
Fanzine Punk Rock Fashion Show. This 
will be Anti-Flags last show in Pittsburgh 
for three months.
museums
Memory and Mourning: American Ex
pressions of Grief a new exhibit at the 
Heinz Regional History Center, will fea
ture Americas changing attitudes toward 
death and dying. For more information, 
please contact 454-6372.
Passage, the newest exhibit at Hewlett 
Gallery, will run through February 28. The 
exhibit features a sculptural installation 
by Anne Wolf, which transforms the gal
lery space by building a structure that 
emulates the form and experience of a 
womb-shaped tomb. For more information, 
please contact Petra Fallaux, Gallery co
ordinator, atx8-3877.
Create a Family Album is an intergenerational class through March 1 for par
ents/grandparents and children to gain ar
chival and genealogical skills, oral histo
ries, a timeline, photos, and family tree. 
Family teams will complete bound albums. 
Registration includes one child, fourth 
grade or older, and one adult. Registration 
is $50 for members, $60 for nonmembers. 
For more information, please contact Trish 
Beatty at 454-6372.
First One Hundred Women Lawyers in 
Allegheny County is the focus of a tem
porary exhibit at the Heinz Regional His
tory Center, which opens on March 7 and 
runs through April 6. For more informa
tion, please call 454-6000.
lectures&taiks
uItalianness in Fascist Italy and the 
Italian Garden Tradition will be 
presented by Claudia Lazzaro, professor 
and chair of art history at Cornell 
University on February 26 at 6 pm in the 
Carnegie Museum of Art Theatre. The 
lecture is open to the public. For more 
information, call Lisa Ritter at x8-5765.
The History of Indian Environmen
talism will be the topic of Ramachandra 
Guhas lecture on February 24 in Baker, 
Hall 355 from 4:30 to 6 pm. Discussion 
will follow the talk. Dr. Guha is the au 
thor of The Unquiet Woods: Ecological 
Change and Peasant Resistance in the 
Himalaya and This Fissured Land: An 
Ecological History of India. He is currently 
the Indo-American Community Visiting 
Professor in the Department of Anthropol
ogy at UC Berkeley.
theaterarts
Man of all Work takes place on Wednes 
days through Saturdays at 8 pm and Sun 
days at 2 pm. Tickets range from $10 t< 
$12. For more information, please call Sara 
Durkacs at 431-4400.
Theatre job opportunities will be avail* 
able on March 22 at a national audition 
for summer jobs to be held at the Univer: 
sity of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Th< 
auditions are open to anyone 18 and older 
and jobs require a 9 to 12 week commit' 
ment. For more information, please con
tact the Institute of Outdoor Drama al 
(919) 962-1328.
Pittsburgh Theatre Laboratories will 
be presenting Waiting for Godot o 
March 7, 8, 14, 15, 21, and 22 at 8 pmat 
Wall to Wall Studios in the Crane Build* 
ing. Tickets are $10 for students, $12 
regular admission. For more information 
please call PTL at 244-9709.
Members of HKSA, KSA, TSA, and ASA took time out to ice skate at Schenley Park last Saturday.Edith Lau/Tartan Photo Stafl
