Inside
Classifieds.......................................11
Comics.......................................L4
Diversions...........................................L9
Features.............................................LI
Forum....................................................8
Sports.............................
Calendar.........................................L12
Vox Populi........................................L12
Living
Get ready for Carnival! 
see page LI
Sports
Track and field 
action  see page 9
Forum
Smokers unite! 
see page 7THE TARTAN
Insi dde rooni mm!.x-iyui aiIIf- w-uvixouty'o Stndi-t Niwop.pix Su-ci 190611 ApxuI 1994
Burglars target offices over break
CFA studio loses $10,000 in equipment
By JASON HEINLEIN
Tartan Staffwriter
A break-in and robbery of CFA 
room 317 was discovered on Sun
day, April 3, with more than 
$10,000 worth of equipment sto
len, according to Campus Police.
The room housed the new stu
dio classroom for electronic me
dia. Stolen from the room were 
two Macintosh Quadras, a scan
ner, a Macintosh Ilci with key
board, and other peripheral 
equipment, the exact amount of 
which was not definite.
[The $10,000 loss] doesn't at 
all consider the cost of all the 
classwork that was stored on the 
hard [drives], said Katherine 
Sitter, undergraduate coordina
tor of student affairs in CFA.
Peoples actual artwork, com
puter generated images that 
might not have been saved [were 
on the stolen computers]
The robbery was believed to 
have occurred sometime over the 
holiday weekend. There was a 
window found open, said Cam
pus Police Detective Ray Mialki. 
It is possible that someone 
crawled along the ledge [to get 
into the room]. However, accord
ing to Mialki, 67 keys have been 
issued for that room, so Campus 
Police has not eliminated the pos
sibility of the burglar being asso
ciated with the department in 
some way.
I dont think a student would 
be foolish enough to steal equipmentthat wouldjeopardize other 
students, said Sitter. Students
in the Art Department feel pretty 
strongly about the kind of work 
they do. Out of those 67, a large 
percentage are actually tenured 
faculty. I think, personally, that 
it was someone that knew some
one with a key.
Within hours after the initial 
reporting... the lock [to the clus
ter] was changed, said Sitter.
According to Mialki, neither the 
room nor the computers initially 
had an electronic security sys
tem. Since the burglary, however, 
CFA has decided to install one.
The more we can discourage 
[theft] by security, the better, 
said Bryan Rogers, head of the 
Art Department.
Charlotte Yano, a sophomore 
art student, said, It [the burPlease see CFA, page 3
Insid erom !.irn xrnr.xid nrm-.iy
By ANGELA MOLLOY
Tartan Staffiuriter
The Psychology Department suffered great 
losses and expensive damage when offices were 
broken into the weekend before spring break. 
Thousands of dollars of equipment were stolen. 
The break-in was estimated to have taken
place between 5 pm Friday, March 25, and 8 am 
Monday, March 28. Two offices were hit, and 
neither had signs of forced entry. Matthew 
Mashyna, computing mananger said, [It] ap
pears someone had a key.
The departments Computer Support Office 
and the Lab for Clinical Cognitive Neuroscience 
Please see PSYCH, page 5
Recitation grades stolen from calculus TA
By JASON TOGYER
Tartan News Editor
The latest in a series of thefts 
over the past two weeks was dis
covered Saturday when a calcu
lus TA found that grades for his 
recitation sections were erased. 
Jeffery Boats, a mathematics
graduate student, said that the 
office he shares was broken into.
There was a break-in at the 
office about a week before spring 
break, said Boats. He said that 
the door showed signs of forced 
entry, including pry marks on 
the wood. At that time, said Boats, 
his officemates filed a report with
Campus Police.
Boats said that until this past 
weekend they couldnt find any
thing missing.
I went to my office [Saturday] 
to enter the grades from a recent 
test and found that the grades 
file had been wiped clean, he 
Please see GRADES, page 3Professor blasts media
Patrick Mooney. thinking, Whos going to drive by and
Mooney, who last year sued the Uni- whos going to come up to my door?  
versity for allegedly discriminating This is when I kept on asking the 
against his religious beliefs, responded University if there was any way for it to 
by making the historically confidential protect me, and I was told, no, there 
disciplinary charges public and contact- isnt. The attorneys for the University 
ing media outlets in an effort to win are there for the University, not for any 
sympathy for his cause, Satemow said, specific person, said Saternow.
By DECLAN McCULLAGH Mooney, whose lawsuit has not been Saternow said the most painful asTartan Senior Staffwriter tried, declined to speak to The Tartan, pects of the ordeal happened after the
Numerous phone calls and email mes- student released his name to the press, 
Tim Satemow says that a chance sages to him were unsuccessful. identifying him as a gay man and forcencounter with a student by a Baker The student got what he really ibly outing him against his will. It was 
Hall bulletin board last month has wanted, which is public ridicule and my choice to be out at CMU, he said, 
turned his life into a nightmare of venr continued intimidation of me, so the Theres something different about being 
omous midnight telephone calls, pro- harassmentwhichstartedinBakerHall out, outside of the CMU community. I 
fessionalhardship, and attacks directed has continued, said Satemow, who was did not make that choice.... this student 
at him from media outlets as varied as called a communist, a wimp, and a had every right to use his name and to 
a WRRK-FM morning talk show host, nutball by WRRK-FMs Jim Quinn, say that charges were brought against 
U.S. News & World Report, and The and a whiner in a Washington Times him.Hehadnorighttousemyname.He 
Washington Times. editorial. hadnorighttoreleasethefactthatl was
Satemow, a drama professor who is Then right after that, the weekend a gay person to the press. 
gay, said the nightmare began when a following all this, the harassing phone The public unveiling of his sexual oriCatholic student harassed him by shout- calls started. Religious fundamentalists entation has hurt his professional life, 
ing anti-gay comments after they ex- reading me scripture. Someone calling said Satemow, who last summer de
changed a few words over a cmuOUT me up and saying theyre going to call signed the set and lightingfor a Catholic 
poster that criticized New York City every Catholic church in the area and Sunday morning show on KDKA-TV. 
Catholic leader Cardinal John have them call CMU and complain about When the producer [of the show] called 
OConnor. Satemow filed harassment this, he said. Thats when it got fright- me and told me my name was being 
charges a few days later against the ening. Thats when I unplugged my removed, [I knew] the timing was just a 
student, senior political science major phone. Thats when I lay awake at night Please see ANALYSIS, page 3
u.afwf.mrn xrlr.nr ol.m!oxmn
Elections will be held on Midway for President, Senate
[Editors note: These are the damned QPA for once in your erament for a year as a Student 
platforms of the two candidates little lives. Cause folks, it aint Senator and Student Government 
on the ballot for Student Govern- the size but how youve used it Treasurer, and Ive realized what 
meatPresident.Theelections will that matters. So the next time problems we have. Ive written 
be held Wednesday and Thurs- you wanna complain, do some- news articles for The Tartan for 
day from 10 am to 7 pm and thing worthwhile about itinstead. two years, and Ive heard from 
Friday from 2 pm to 7 pm just off Dont go for second-best, baby, administrators how little attenthe Carnival midway.] Act up, fight back, end apathy. tion they pay to Student Govem^ , .. _ | . . _ ,, ment. Im running for StudentCameron Kelly Brown Declan McCuNagh Government President because I
Sophomore, Economics Junior, Cognitive Science believe that students can work
with the administration to make
The Boy Agender Right now, Student Govern- a difference. I know the way the
Hey, girls (snap)! I may be your ment doesnt do much for stu- University works, and with your 
candidate for President, but I dents. For the last few years, its help, things can change, 
wont do it all for ya. Boy hears all primary function seems to have Here are some of the projects 
your complaints, but unless you been making amusing headlines: Ill work on as Student Govemwork it, girl, and speak out loud Senate vs. ROTC, Senate vs. GSO, ment President: 
for whatcha want, aint nothin Senate vs. IVCF.  Improving Shuttle service.
gonna happen. Boy can push for Student Government doesnt Pitt runs four large buses to Squirya and what ya want, but for it to have to be like this. I transferred rel Hill and Shadyside, but CMU 
work, girl, you gotta shake that to CMU from Rutgers Univer- only provides one shuttle to 
grove thang and get off your sorry sity, where student government Shadyside. We need a Squirrel 
ass. Complaints alone smack of does positive things for students Hill shuttle. Ill also work with 
vile complacency. It dont do a on campus. They have this power the administration to establish 
damned bit of good when you just because students are more active bad-weather policies for Shuttle 
bitch to your sister sitting there and less apathetic. And then the and Escort, 
downinthat frat house brew. And administration listens. We have  Relocating Scotland Yard and 
for those who think that cha work to do the same thing here. Entropy. The University has not
it, well, youdont. You gotta prove Students have to get involved, found a place for Entropy or the 
yourself and forget about that Ive been active in Student Gov- Please see PLATFORMS, page 5
Under construction...
AEPis ''Alcatraz" Is shown here In the early stages of completion. Spring Carnival Is this Thursday, 
Friday, and Saturday. People who normally use the Skibo parking lot are reminded that the lot will be 
unavailable.
Phi Kappa Theta has been hard at work on their booth for this years Spring 
Carnival. In keeping with the theme of Around the World," the entry represents 
a Norwegian church. For more Carnival information, please see page Li.

---------------------------------------------------

2Tdr T.xm.a  u.xargwr Mrlloa  11 Aoxwl 1994
NKOHiiii' mr/'Ur' "-m'THIS JUST IN.,.
U.S. .mm.iyn Bonaw.
WASHINGTON, April 11  Presi
dent Bill Clinton called on Bosnian 
Serbs to return to the negotiatingtable, 
hours after U.S. jets bombed targets 
near the town of Gorzade.
The bombing run came in response 
to a call from the United Nations com
mander in Bosnia, British Lieutenant 
General Michael Rose, said The Asso
ciated Press.
Clinton said that the U.S. is pre
pared to use air power again. He called 
yesterdays action a clear expression 
of the will of NATO and the U.N. 
The U.S. jets, identified as F-16Cs, 
dropped bombs on an unspecified tar
get after Bosnian Serb forces overran 
government defenses to reach the out
skirts of town. The action was the first 
air-to-ground attack in NATOs 44- 
year history.
Bosnian Serb leaders denounced the 
attack, saying that there was no jus
tification for the use of NATO air 
power.
In a statement issued Sunday, they 
said that the Bosnian peace process is 
in danger and full responsibility lies 
with the U.N.
A spokesperson for U.N. SecretaryGeneral Boutros Boutros-Ghali said 
the planes flew in support of eight 
U.N. military observers assigned to 
the region. She said that the United 
Nations would not hesitate to order 
more air strikes to protect U.N.-controlled areas.
Bosnian Serbs accused NATO of hit
ting civilian targets. The deputy com
mander of the Serb army claims there 
were civilian casualties, but wouldnt 
give details.
Afmwawnmx.mwoa oxro.xrn 
Mwmidrll !ox aomwa.mwoa
WASHINGTON. April 8 (DJ)  A 
squad of administration lawyers, fo
cusing on Senator George Mitchell as 
the leading candidate to succeed retir
ing Justice Harry Blackmun, 
scrambled to put to rest questions 
about an arcane pay-raise issue.
The lawyers dont see the issue as a 
serious obstacle to a Mitchell nomina
tion, but their efforts reflect President 
Bill Clinton's inclination to name the 
Senate majority leader to the court.
The issue is the U.S. Constitutions 
emoluments clause, which forbids 
appointment of a member of Congress 
to a federal post for which compensa
tion has been increased during the 
members current term. The idea is to 
prevent lawmakers from raising the 
pay of other government jobs they hope 
to get. Conservative activists are say
ing that because Supreme Court sala
ries have been raised during Sen. 
Mitchells current six-year term, he 
cant be put on the Court.
The conservative Free Congress 
Foundation promises a fight, declar
ing: The Constitution clearly prohib
its Mitchell from being appointed to 
the Supreme Court at this time.
One obvious solution would be for 
Mitchell, if nominated and confi rmed, 
to delay joining the high court until 
January, after his Senate term ex
pires.
For legislators moving to cabinet 
posts  includingTreasury Secretary 
Lloyd Bentsen, who came from the
SenateCongress has approved spe
cial legislation rolling back the salary 
for the new jobs to the amount at the 
beginning of the lawmakers most-recent term. Some constitutional schol
ars, such as Harvards Laurence Tribe, 
believe that the legislative fix would 
work for a Supreme Court nominee, as 
long as Congress passes the pay roll
back after Blackmun resigns and be
fore Mitchell is sworn in.
The pay-raise issue has come up 
before in connection with the Supreme 
Court, most recently when Senator 
Orrin Hatch (R.-Utah), the ranking 
Republican on the Senate Judiciary 
Committee, was considered for the 
court in 1987.
At that time, Reagan administra
tion lawyers at the Justice Depart
ment concluded that there wasnt a 
clean way around the pay problem. 
In fact, there was a more practical 
obstacle in 1987: House Democrats 
indicated they would block salary-rollback legislation for Hatch.
Hatch, a key figure in confirmation 
politics, dismisses the pay-raise issue. 
There are a lot of ways to get around 
the emoluments clause, he says.
Conservatives could still challenge 
a Mitchell appointment in court, but 
such a suit would be a long shot. A 
similar challenge aimed at Senatorturned-Justice Hugo Black in the 
1930s was dismissed on procedural 
grounds, and the Supreme Court de
clined to consider the case.
Japanese prime minister resigns
TOKYO, April 8 (DJ)  Japanese 
Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa, who 
rose to power vowing to clean up the 
countrys politics, announced he would 
resign over the very type of money scan
dal that plagued his predecessors.
Hosokawas sudden resignation over 
questionable financial dealings deepened 
the countrys political confusion.
His eight-month-old coalition is the 
first government not led by the Liberal 
Democrats in nearly 40 years.
Hosokawa, mired in a scandal over his 
personal finances that has paralyzed 
initiatives in Parliament, would be the 
fourth of Japans last five prime minis
ters to step down because of scandal.
Hosokawa said that although the ques
tions regarding his finances relate to 
transactions that occurred before he took 
office, they were something for which I 
must take moral responsibility.
It was unclear when Hosokawa would 
actually step down. The Japan Broad
casting Corp. said Hosokawas cabinet 
could offer their resignations as early as 
Saturday. They would then become lame 
ducks until Parliament approves a suc
cessor.
Though no clear successor had 
emerged, speculation centered on For
eign Minister Tsutomu Hata. Coalition 
leaders met this evening to discuss the 
succession but made no decision. They 
are to meet again tomorrow.
Hata, who is also deputy prime minis
ter, refused to comment on his own am
bitions. Yuichi Ichikawa, chairman of 
the coalition Komeito, or Clean Govern
ment Party, said Hosokawa told coali
tion leaders he was resigning because of 
a scandal involving questions over his 
personal finances.
The scandal centers around a $970,000 
loan Hosokawa received in 1982 from a 
mob-linked trucking company executive. 
Opposition lawmakers had charged the 
loan, from the head of Sagawa Kyubin, 
was actually a political donation.Advertising may be unnecessary
NEW YORK, April 8 (DJ)  The tele
vision commercials consumers like best 
dont necessarily translate into sales at 
' the checkout counter.
Seven packaged-goods brands were 
among the 25 consumer products identi
fied by Video Storyboard Tests Inc. as 
having the most popular and best re
membered commercials of 1993. Five of 
those brands, however, had either flat or 
declining sales last year in supermar
kets, drugstores, andmass-merchandise 
outlets, according to Information Re
sources Inc.s InfoScan service.
This paradox raises one of the oldest 
and trickiest questions on Madison Av
enue: Do likable ads produce higher 
sales? The issue is taking on greater 
urgency as clients increasingly link their 
agencies compensation to how well the 
ads perform. This greater accountabil
ity may well be in order: A startling 40 
percent of 20,000 consumers surveyed 
each year are unable to think of a single 
outstanding commercial, says David 
Vadehra, president of Video Storyboard 
Tests. They cant play back enough de
tails to show that theyre talking about 
a specific commercial, he said.
Even when they remember the ads, 
people arent always motivated to buy. 
Plenty of consumers remembered Pepsi
Colas ads, which cost PepsiCo $67 mil
lion last year, according to Competitive 
Media Reporting, a firm that tracks ad 
spending. Pepsis most popular spot, fea
turing basketball hero Shaquille ONeal, 
catapulted Pepsi to number two in the 
Video Storyboard survey, behind 
McDonalds Corp.
The Shaq effort made consumers smile, 
but it didnt make them thirsty for Pepsi. 
Sales of Pepsi Cola fell 1.6 percent to 
$1.64 billion, according to Information 
Resources, in a year when sales of car
bonated beverages in general were up 
4.2 percent, and sales of Coca-Cola were 
up 8 percent, to $1.77 billion.
Pepsi Co. and its ad agency, Omnicom 
Groups BBDO, say judging an ads ef
fectiveness by sales numbers is too sim
plistic, because it fails to take into ac
count the myriad other factors that in
fluence consumers, such as shelf space 
and promotions. Advertising is a mind 
game, says William Katz, BBDO execu
tive vice president. It can make you feel 
better about choosing a brand, but only 
when the other variables are in place. It 
cant accompany you to the supermar
ket and steer you to the brand.
Indeed, Pepsi ad campaigns probably 
got too much credit for the companys 
sales increases in previous decades, as
serts Pepsi Co. senior vice president Jeff 
Campbell. Advertising has become a 
spectator sport, and the tendency is to 
overplay its importance, he says. The 
hype distorts it  whether were creat
ing it or the press is creating it.
Some advertising experts believe cam
paigns need to run several years before 
they can significantly affect sales. You 
cant go by one years results, said 
Vadehra ofVideo Storyboard Tests, but 
over the long term, there is definitely a 
connection betwen the advertising that 
people notice and the products they buy.
For example, he believes the popular 
Whiskas cat food campaign using a 
small colorful bird with a charming 
Latin accent will do better over time. 
The spots, created by DArcy Masius 
Benton & Bowles, was No. 22 in Video 
Storyboards 1993 rankings, yet product 
sales declined 14 percent to $184.6 mil
lion while the total cat food category 
remained flat at $2.24 billion.Nirvana leader commits suicide
SEATTLE, April 8  Kurt Cobain, 
lead singer, songwriter, and guitarist 
for Seattle-based rock band Nirvana, 
was found dead at his home Friday of a 
self-inflicted gunshot wound to the head. 
He was 27.
Cobain recently recovered from a drug, 
and-alcohol induced coma which forced 
the band to cancel two dates on their 
European tour.
We are all devastated by the unbe-; 
lievable tragedy of Kurt Cobains death,* 
said Ed Rosenblatt, president of 
Nirvanas label, Geffen records. The 
world has lost a great artist, and weve 
lost a great friend  it leaves a Y 
void in our hearts.
Nirvana, a band whose raw, honest 
lyrics and ravaged musical style helped 
establish the grunge aesthetic, enjoyed 
a meteoric rise to fame after the release 
of their 1991 album, the multimillionselling Nevermind. In Utero, their third 
album, was issued last year.
Michael Azerrad, author of Come .As 
You Are: The Story of Nirvana, said in a 
1993 Associated Press interview that 
the band translated [the] pain, ar 
and confusion ... [of] divorce, the vio
lence, the drugs, the diminished oppor
tunities for an entire generation ... into 
musical soundwaves ... that hit a nerve 
among a large amount of kids.
Cobains wife, Courtney Love, lead 
singer for the group Hole, could not be 
reached for comment. Cobain leaves be
hind a two-year-old daughter.U.S auto plants work overtime
DETROIT, April 7 (DJ)  General 
Motors Corp., Ford Motor Co., and 
Chrysler Corp. continue to schedule over
time at most North American assembly 
plants in an effort to meet strong de
mand for vehicles.
General Motors said it planned over
time this week at eight car and all 14 of 
its truck assembly plants. Ford said it 
has operated overtime this week at all of 
its U.S. assembly plants except the At
lanta and Chicago Taurus/Sable assem
bly plants and its Wixom, Mich., luxury 
car plant.
While most of the overtime scheduling 
is driven by sales demand, some of the 
overtime is an attempt to recoup lost 
production over the Easter holiday.
News Briefs Courtesy 
Dow Jones
Layout By 
Eric J. Salzman
1994 Fall Triathlon
September 18, 9:00 am
Triathlon Events
Swim - Run - Run 
Swim-Bike-Run 
Run-Bike-Run
Look for details throughout the summer and fall. 
Get your teams and mark your calendars!
All Male - All Female and Co-Ed Teams 
and Individual Categories
Funded by the Student Activities Fee
CanWie
Mellon


---------------------------------------------------

Tdr T.xm.a  u.xargwr Mrlloa  11 Aoxwl 19943
BnxyI.x ix.oio 
ti.chixo fuIio
(HADES, from page 1
aid. Other files were not missing.
The incident is one in a series of 
lurglaries on campus. James LaPaglia, 
lief of Campus Police, said that its 
liard to say at this time if any of the 
thefts are related.
Its tough to speculate at this point, 
aidLaPaglia. Rightnow, he said, Cam
pus Police is trying to see who had 
access to the areas broken into, includ
ing those with keys.
LaPaglia said that any time the Uni
versity is closed for more than a few 
Jays, burglaries rise. Winter holidays, 
spring break  any time when theres 
piore than a few days to do these things 
and not be observed is always a time 
jf concern for us, he said.
The number of break-ins this year is 
unusual, however. Its uncommon that 
;e have this many before and during 
Ike break, LaPaglia said.
Boats said that he filed another re
port with Campus Police Saturday. 
Its likely that it was one of my stu
dents, he said. Boats teaches two sections of21-112 Calculus for H&SS Stu
dents. Several other copies of the 
grades are in different hands, he said, 
o nothing was lost. However, he 
aid, it will take some time for him to 
restore everything.
Campus Police sent a memo to office 
cccupants before the break warning 
them of the possibility of break-ins, 
aid LaPaglia. Based on past experiitces, he said, it seemed an appropri
ate warning to give.
LaPaglia said that Campus Police is 
following up every lead in the various 
burglaries. If anyone has any infor
mation, that may be helpful to us, he 
I. Any call would be considered 
confidential.
Media spotlight focuses on CMU harassment case
ANALYSIS, from page 1
little too coincidental, he said. This 
harassment has not just cost me lost 
sleep, but part of my livelihood.
I am angry that nothing is being 
done to the student about the harass
ment after the fact. He caused the phone 
calls, the incorrect news reports, said 
Satemow.
Disciplinary Process
In most University disciplinary hear
ings, the accused person wants to keep 
the charges private. This case is unique 
because Mooney released documents, 
including a letter Satemow sent to the 
University detailing his complaint, that 
are normally confidential. The Univer
sity currently has no policy saying what 
the punishment is for breaking the con
fidentiality rules that are outlined in 
the Student Handbook.
The current policy allows people who 
are accused of harassment to continue 
to harass their victims, said Satemow. 
The hearing and how its set up right 
now will not protect you against being 
attacked even more.
Michael Murphy, dean of Student 
Affairs, said that all disciplinary charges 
were confidential and declined to com
ment on the case.The University pro
cess is the same regardless of the nature 
of the incident involved. The individu
als involved in matters before the Uni
versity committee are requested to keep 
the matters confidential. The reason that 
is done is to respect the privacy rights of 
the people involved, said Murphy.
Murphy said the University may re
view the policy covering the confidenti
ality of the disciplinary process.
University disciplinary committees 
consist of a four-member panel com
posed of two students and two faculty or 
staff members who decide disputes and 
recommend disciplinary actions to 
Murphy. The University committee of
fers an opportunity for peer review of 
conflicts of any sort... Its very much a 
community-based process, Murphy 
said, adding that respect for the confi
dentiality of the process is critically 
important.
President Robert Mehrabian defended 
the confidentiality of the hearings last 
week in a open letter to the campus 
community that said, Given the sensi
tivity of these matters... the University 
will not initiate or respond to specific 
allegations or information regarding the 
details of such dispute resolution pro
ceeding ... We must be true to the mem
bers of our community by maintaining 
the fair and private process by which 
such matters are addressed.
Mehrabian also defended free speech 
among members of the campus commu
nity, saying, While I personally may
find a poster or other communication to 
be offensive, I have no right to exercise 
censorship over it, nor does any other 
person on this campus.
Freedom of Speech
Its ironic, said Satemow, that even 
though Mooney tore down a poster he 
found offensive, an illegal act that vio
lated cmuOUTs freedom of speech, he 
was able to manipulate the press by 
saying the University brought charges 
against him for exercising his freedom of 
speech.
This student could have respected 
how this school works. He could have 
filed a protest against the poster. He 
could have brought charges against 
cmuOUT. He ripped the poster off the 
wall and went right to the media with it. 
He had no intention of working within 
the community, said Satemow.
Published reports quote Mooney as 
saying he tore the poster off the wall 
because it was not in accordance with 
the [Universitys] poster policy rules 
since it didnt bear the name of the 
organization responsible for distribut
ing it.
University poster policy does not al
low students to remove posters from 
bulletin boards; Mooney allegedly was 
found guilty of illegally removing the 
poster from the wall and sentenced to
two months probation.
Mooney has said he will appeal 
Murphys decision to Mehrabian.
Media Coverage
The local media, including the Pitts
burgh Tribune-Review and the Pitts
burgh Post-Gazette, have covered 
Mooneys case in detail, reporting the 
charges against him and the Universitys 
alleged decision to place him on two 
months probation. But news of Mooneys 
case has travelled across The Associated 
Press wire to reach media outlets around 
the country, including The Washington 
Times, The Allentown Morning Call, U.S. 
News & World Report, and even CNN, 
where the case was discussed on 
Crossfire a week ago.
Saternow sees this coverage as one
sided, since because he and the Univer
sity declined to comment on the case, the 
media only covered Mooneys side of the 
story.
He wanted to try [the case] in the 
press according to his criteria ... He 
knows the power of the press and used it 
against me, said Satemow. Diversity 
has no place in his world.
Its important for me to tell the cam
pus community what really happened, 
said Saternow. He said he chose to speak 
to The Tartan because he wanted to tell 
his side of the story.
!FA otnduf xfbbid ff otndi-t .xtwfxk, $10,000 u- iqnupsi-t
CFA, from page 1
glary] doesnt affect me academically, but it upsets me 
that somebody would go and do that. Essentially, its 
my money that went to pay for that [the stolen comput
ers], and they stole it. They stole my computer. 
Rogers said, [The Art Department] is re-thinking 
who has keys, and they have added a full metal door. 
Although there is an investigation into the burglary,
like stolen cars, most of them [computers] dont get 
found, said Rogers. However, if it wakes us up [as to 
security needs], maybe some good will come of it. 
[The loss of the computers] impacts... at least three 
or four classes, said Sitter. If a whole semesters ... 
worth of someones artwork [is taken], its like setting 
fire to a painting, you cant remake it.
[Carnegie Mellon] is one of the few universities that
doesnt lock [all classrooms] at a specific time, said 
Rogers.
There have been outcrys among the faculty and 
student body in general about wishing there was ID 
card access to the building, said Sitter.
I personally feel that it would be a strong point to 
have limited door access. I think that we could set it 
up pretty easily, he said.
Student Senate Minutes
STUDENT
SENATE _
Meeting of 22 March 1994
Roll was taken at 7 pm. Meetng was called to order at 7:10.
Senators Present: Atkinson 
(CIT), Baron (GSIA), Benowitz 
(H&SS), Brown (H&SS), Calhoon 
(GSIA), Carter (CIT), Demasi 
(MCS), Dien (CFA), Gonzalez (M 
at L), Gosden (IM), Holzman 
(CIT), Jurgovsky (IM), Kandlikar 
(CIT), Kim (CFA), Kwon (CIT), 
Landers (SCS), Landay (SCS), 
Mallo (CIT), Mega (H&SS), Mot
ley (CIT), OConnor (GSIA), 
Palmer (H&SS), Rashid (MCS), 
Richardson (H&SS), Riley (CIT), 
Rossander (GSIA), Schulte 
(H&SS), Singh (CFA),Slawson 
(CIT), Trexel (IM), Turks (Heinz), 
Wang (CIT), White (H&SS), 
Wolfson (H&SS).
Senators Absent: Gannon 
(MCS), Gregory (Heinz).
Approval of the Minutes:
Approved.
Audience Participation:
Cassa Hadlay spoke about the 
University Rowing Club.
Special Business: Due to the
resignation of Cheryl Gach, a new 
Campus Affairs Chair was 
elected. Donna Riley was nomi
nated and accepted by acclama
tion.
Ex-Officio Reports:
AB (Matt Adler): Nikki Gio
vanni, a poet, had to cancel due to 
illness; she will probably resched
ule next semester. Coffeehouse is 
planning a bon voyage party for 
Skibo. Special Events is co-spon
soring a video game competition 
to April in the Tartan Lounge. 
Concerts is preparing for Belly at 
Carnival. Tech is making ar
rangements to have the parabolic 
wall from Skibo Ballroom trans
planted to the drill deck in the 
Navy building. Movies this week: 
Thursday, Breathless; no more 
films until April 7.
GSO (Craig Brown): Two bands 
are playing in the Coffeehouse 
tonight; admission is $2.
[...]
Faculty Senate (Michael
Murphy): We discussed the ex
change program in Monterrey, 
Mexico, and the possibility of the 
creation of a lecture track for fac
ulty.
Student Affairs (Pat Hamed): 
Planning for the International 
Festival is beginning. If you and/ 
or your organization would like 
to be part of the International 
Festival, contact Anne Witchner 
in Student Activities.
SDC (Ben Wang): No movie 
this week. There will be a meet
ing Thursday in Morewood at 6 
pm to discuss the new restaurant 
in Morewood Dining room next 
semester. SDC Chronicles was 
passed out last week.
[...]Treasurer (Declan McCullagh): McCullagh gave out the 
results of the audits of the funded 
organizations which have defi
cits.
Committee Reports:
Academic Affairs (Kami 
White): Thursday and Friday 
well meet with the Acting Regis
trar to discuss electronic regis
tration.
Campus Affairs (Donna 
Riley): None.
Funding and Recognition
(Crystal Trexel): Budget packets 
are out. Email me any objections 
you have to the budgets. Only 
groups with objections will have 
hearings.
[...]Chair (Burt Holzman): Marcus 
Alzona is no longer a Senator. 
Petitions are due on March 30, 
and are available at the Skibo 
Info Desk. No meeting next week.
Unfinished Business: 1.
Resolutions S94-05, Rowing Club 
Resolution: Motion to strike 
clause 2 and replace with 
Whereas, the CMU Rowing Club 
has reached a level of develop
ment where the potential for a 
recognized varsity program ex
ists; passed by acclamation. Add 
after clause 3: Whereas the CMU 
Rowing Club provides rowing 
opportunities to all students and 
would continue to do so after the 
establishment of a recognized 
Varsity program; passed by ac
clamation.
Strike the first resolve state
ment and replace with: Resolved, 
that the Student Senate calls 
upon the University to increase 
their funding of the CMU Rowing
Club by $10,000 beginning the 
fiscal year 1994-5; Amend to 
change beginning to for. 
Passed. Strike final clause and 
replace with: Resolved, that the 
Student Senate calls upon the' 
University to officially recognize 
the Varsity element of the Row
ing Club as a spring varsity sport, 
with all the financial support and 
prestige associate with such rec
ognition, beginning with the fis
cal year of 1995-6; Passed. Mo
tion to table passed by voice vote.
2. Resolutions S94-03B: Motion 
to table passed by voice vote.
B. Resolution to raise the Ac
tivities Fee by $5: Whereas the 
split in the Graduate Activities 
Fee for the 1994-1995 calendar 
year is changing so that 40 per
cent of the Graduate Activities 
Fee will be designated as con
trolled by the Graduate Student 
Organization, and whereas there 
will be increased demand for fi
nancial support by organizations 
due to the move out of Skibo, be it 
resolved that the Student Senate 
calls upon the administration to 
raise the Individual Activities Fee 
by $5, to $105 for the 1994-95 
fiscal year.
3. Resolutions S94-03C: Mo
tion to add to the end of resolu
tion These grants are tentative 
on the GSO making and publiciz
ing a policy that would allow 
graduate and undergraduate stu
dent groups to use the Tilted 
Square during non-operating 
hours. The policy must be cre
ated and publicized by 5/1/94. 
Motion to amend the change al
low to insure equal treatment of. 
Move the previous question 
passed 22-1. Amendment to 
amendment passed by voice vote. 
Move the previous question 
passed 21-4. Vote amendment 
passed by voice vote.
Text reads (with amendment): 
C. Resolution for grants to the 
Tilted Square: Whereas the Tilted 
Square is a campus establish
ment open to all students, and 
whereas the Tilted Square is cur
rently housed in Skibo, and 
whereas Skibo is going to be de
molished in a few months, and 
whereas a new University Cen
ter is going to be built in the 
location of Skibo, and whereas 
the Tilted Square will have to 
move back into the University 
Center, be it resolved that the 
Student Senate allocates a grant 
of $10,000 to the Tilted Square
for its move out of Skibo in the 
1994r-1995 school year, and for 
its move into the University Cen
ter in the 1996-1997 school year.
These funds are to come out of 
the 1994-95 and 1996-1997 fis
cal years respectively. These 
grants are tentative on the GSO 
making and publicizing a policy 
that would insure equal treat
ment of graduate and under
graduate student groups in using 
the Tilted Square during non
operating hours. The policy must 
be created and publicized by May
1. Motion to table the resolution 
passed 1511.
New Business from C ommittee: 1. Special Allocations: Com
puter Club, $1500 for a used com
puter. Motion to change alloca
tion to $750; Amend to allocate 
$600 and loan $900 to be paid 
back by the end of the fiscal year. 
Passed. Move the previous ques
tion passed 21-3. Amendment 
passed by voice vote. Motion that 
the club does not receive a sub
sidy if they default on the loan. 
Passed by acclamation. Alloca
tion passed by voice vote. 
Womens Lacrosse, $700.
Passed New Business from 
the Floor: 1. Motion to have a 
ballot election just off of the Car
nival Midway from 10 am-5 pm 
on April 13,14,15. Amend to 10 
am- 7 pm Wednesday and Thurs
day, and 2-7 pm on Friday. 
Passed by voice vote.
2. Motion to take S94-05 off the 
table. Passed by voice vote. Mo
tion to add Resolved, that fund
ing for those members of the 
University Rowing Club not eli
gible to participate in a varsity 
sport continue to be subsidized 
by Student Senate in accordance 
with its bylaws. Amend to read: 
Resolved, that the Student Sen
ate continue to recognize the 
CMU Rowing Club as a funded 
organization for all members not 
participating in a varsity sport. 
Passed by voice vote. Vote on reso
lution as amended passed by voice 
vote. Text reads:
Whereas the CMU Rowing Club 
has established itself as an en
during and popular institution; 
Whereas, the CMU Rowing Club 
has reached a level of develop
ment where the potential for a 
recognized varsity program ex
ists;
Whereas the Student Activi
ties Fee is intended to fund extra
curricular activities that benefit
all students, and these funds are 
becoming insufficient to the stat
ure, popularity, size and expense 
of this organization;
Whereas the CMU Rowing Club 
provides rowing opportunities to 
all students and would continue 
to do so after the establishment 
of a recognized Varsity program; 
Resolved, that the Student Sen
ate calls upon the University to 
increase their funding of the CMU 
Rowing Club by $10,000 for the 
fiscal year 1994-5; Resolved, that 
the Student Senate calls upon 
the University to officially recog
nize the Varsity element of the 
Rowing Club as a spring varsity 
sport, with all the financial support and prestige associate with 
such recognition, beginning with 
the fiscal year of 1995-6; Re
solved, that the Student Senate 
continue to recognize the CMU 
Rowing Club as a funded organi
zation for all members not par
ticipating in a varsity sport.
[...]
Announcements: There are 
vacancies, 2 CFA, 1 MCS, 1 Misc., 
and 1 Heinz.
[Ed. note: an ellipsis in brack
ets indicates an omission.]
Submitted by 
NAOMI BERNER 
Edited by 
JASON TOGYER
Attention Seniors!
lounceiiients
Personalized Graduation 
Announcements by Balfour
Your name, degree and 
major printed on each 
announcement.
CMU Personalized 
Announcements
$2750
White only 
Pkg. of 25
0J<?an
OC#"*
C'
Bur glasrter oufiirSKIBO HALL
Orders Taken on: Monday, April 11, through 
Friday, April 15 
Time: 8:00 am to 5:00 pm 
or call 1 -800-899-8205 to order by phone.
IBfE

---------------------------------------------------

QSHIPPINGFAXCOPIESSTAMPSUPS AUTHORIZED SHIPPING OUTLET
MAIL BOXES ETC
Packaging & Shipping Specialists
Private mail box rentals 
Western Union 
Photocopying 
We pack & ship computers 
UPS Daily
Instant passport photos 
Parcel receiving 
DHL Worldwide 
Fax Service 
Pick-up Service
414 South Craig St. (Near Carnegie Museum) 687-6100 
6393 Penn Avenue (Shadyside) 362-7200
MAILBOXESOVERNIGHTOFFICESUPPLIESPACKINGSUPPLIES
You could rent any truck. 
Then again, you couldve 
gone to any school.
There are thousands of colleges out there. Fortunately, you made a good choice. 
Now make the right choice when you leave. Rent a truck from Ryder.
Ryder makes your move easy. With a convenient toll-free reservation number. 
Clean, reliable vehicles that are easy to load and drive. Fast processing to speed up check
in and check-out. And a 24-hour Roadside Assistance Line for help along the way.
So put your education to good use and call I-8OO-GO-RYDER (1-800-467-9337) 
or call your local Ryder dealer for special student rates:Were there when you need usf
4621 Forbes Avenue 
412-682-1947
4764 Baum Boulevard 
412-687-9005
7535 Penn Avenue 
412-241-3003
1994 Ryder Truck Rental. Inc. Printed in the U.S.A. An equal opportunity employer.

---------------------------------------------------

Tdr T.xm.a  u.xargwr Mrlloa  11 Aoxwl 19945
Allrgrf d.x.nnmram xriouamrf
[Editors Note: Please see re
lated story, page 1.]
By DECLAN McCULLAGH
Tartan Senior Staffivriter
Tim Saternow, a visiting 
drama professor, said he was 
walking along the first floor hall
way of Baker Hall on March 3 
when he noticed a cmuOUT 
poster announcing the groups 
Womens Center videotape 
showing of a anti-AIDS cam
paign against the New York City 
Catholic church, which is op
posed to using condoms for pro
tection against AIDS.
The poster used artwork from 
the 1989 campaign by ACT UP, 
an AIDS awareness group that 
publicized the Catholic Churchs 
actions in New York City. The 
artwork included a stylized 
photo of Cardinal J ohn OConnor 
labelled Public Health Menace, 
and text that read Stop the 
Church and Know Your 
Scumbags.
When Saternow stopped to 
look at the poster, three stu
dents walked by and asked him 
what he thought of it. He re
plied, Theres a bit of truth in 
it and walked away.
About halfway up the hall
way, I turned around and 
watched a student taking down 
the poster. I immediately turned 
to them and told them ripping 
down posters was against uni
versity policy. They told me they 
just wanted to photocopy it. I 
told them to go to the Womens 
Center if they wanted a copy of 
the poster, said Saternow.
Thats when he says senior 
political science major Patrick
Mooney started yelling at him, 
shouting anti-gay remarks like 
 *Why are you homosexuals at
tacking the Church,  said 
Saternow, who is gay and was 
wearing a bright pink triangle 
on his backpack.
This student caught up with 
me and continued yelling at me 
up the hallway... He stopped at 
the post office and continued to 
yell at me as I walked across the 
lobby of Baker, according to 
Saternow, who said this was 
harassment based on his sexual 
orientation.
Even though Mooney declined 
to speak to The Tartan, pub
lished reports quoted him as 
saying the altercation was an 
argument, not harassment.
Mooney was quoted as saying 
in a letter to Student Affairs, I 
casually approached [Saternow] 
and asked him if he could be
lieve that someone would put a 
poster like that on campus. He 
paused, then responded,  Its 
the truth. 
According to Mooney, he re
moved the poster from the wall 
to show to University officials 
for the express purpose of com
plaining about its bigotry 
against the Catholic church and 
Catholic students here at 
Carnegie Mellon.
Mooney said he walked with 
the professor for 30 to 60 sec
onds and finally chided him for 
being immature and unable to 
defend his beliefs, but did not 
harass him and never used the 
word homosexual.
One of the students who was 
with Mooney offered a third ver
sion of the story. In the context 
of the argument that followed,
Pat may have used the word 
homosexual but not in any de
rogatory way .... Pat was de
fending his position. He was de
fending his Catholic beliefs, say
ing homosexuality is not natu
ral or something like that. 
Saternow would walk away 
when Pat was saying that, said 
Dan Goldwasser, a freshman 
computer science major.
After consulting Dean of Stu
dent Affairs Michael Murphy, 
Saternow decided to file harass
ment charges against Mooney. 
We spoke about it and there 
were grounds to press charges, 
said Saternow.
According to Mooney, he was 
acquitted of the harassment 
charges but was put on proba
tion until he graduates this May 
for tearing down the poster, an 
act which violated university 
policy. Murphy declined to com
ment.
Im not even sure if the deci
sion is accurate, said Saternow, 
who was not told what actions 
will be taken against Mooney.
I think the decision is ridicu
lous, said Mooney. The poster 
itself was inflammatory, bigoted 
and in violation of the poster 
policy since it did not clearly 
state the group who was spon
soring the event.
He said he tore the poster off 
the wall since it was not in 
accordance with the [Uni
versitys] poster policy rules, 
since it didnt bear the name of 
the organization responsible for 
distributing it.
Mooney has said he will ap
peal Murphys decision to Uni
versity President Robert 
Mehrabian.
Insid erom !.irn nrm-.iy
PSYCH from page 1
lost Macintosh equipment, such as laptops and 
external devices like disk drives. In the Neuro
science Lab, the damage was more critical because 
all of their hard drives were stolen, as well as back
ups and memory chips.
Mashyna says the damage to Computer Support 
was not critical but said it has caused people to 
waste a lot of time. Data and information were 
backed up, and only new equipment and items not 
bolted down were taken.
Mashyna said the department has started to re
key rooms like his offices that were hit but the 
entire 30-year old key system should be updated. 
Because of age of the system, blank keys float 
around frequently and more people have the abil
ity to copy those keys.
With newer locks, the Psychology Department 
would not have as many duplicate keys lying 
around.
Mashyna said that there have been fewer breakins on the new key system and that he has a lot of 
faith in the new key system, and cited Wean Halls 
low break-in rate as an example.
The Neuroscience Lab experienced more trouble 
than Computer Support, as they found that a lot 
of the work [they] had done over the past two 
months was lost, said Lab Coordinator Vijoy 
Abraham. Although the department as a whole is 
careful to back-up files every night, all of the Labs 
back-ups were taken.
The thieves took equipment that was the most 
money for the size that it was, said Abraham. 
They left large keyboards and monitors and in
stead opened the Labs computers to steal memory 
chips. Because of the computer generated images 
that the Lab works with, the loss of memory is 
difficult to deal with, he said.
Although there have been reported thefts in
several departments on campus, the Psychology 
Department has unique and sometimes more ex
pensive programs than the word processing appli
cations that are usually found in most other com
puters around Baker and Porter Hall. This makes 
psychology a bigger target, said Abraham.
Campus Police cannot discuss an investigation 
that is still open, but Detective William Kaiser 
said, Were still trying to check out what were 
doing with it.
Both offices were dusted for fingerprints but 
Mashyna and Abraham are skeptical that the 
culprit will be found.
Kaiser also said that psychology is not alone. 
Most departments on campus have had this hap
pen to them, said Kaiser, including architecture, 
computer science, and robotics.
There is no word yet on the estimated dollar 
amount of the stolen equipment. Abraham said the 
offices just completed itemizing their losses and so 
far there is no estimated total.
Im thinking of setting up my own security 
system, said Abraham. Other professors who have 
had equipment stolen in the past have already 
done just that.
The department is lucky because costs will be 
covered by insurance but that does not repair the 
two months [that were] lost, in the Neuroscience 
Lab, said Abraham.
Computer Support helps researchers and profes
sors in the set-up of psychology experiments. They 
are there to help with maintenance as well as some 
programming.
Mashyna believes the thefts were strictly for the 
computers themselves, as opposed to someone sabo
taging another experiment.
Mashyna said the experience is just a lot of 
trouble, and that the department would be a lot 
happier to have their equipment back.
Carnegie Mellon in Brief
Correction... u.afwf.mrn xrlr.nr ol.m!oxmn
The Tartan corrects all 
known errors of fact. If you 
know of such an error, please 
contact the Editor-in-Chief in 
Skibo 50, or call 268-2111.
PLATFORMS, from page 1
Yard after Skibo falls this sum
mer.
 Reforming the disciplinary 
process. We need to do two things 
to fix it: publish summary statis
tics at the end of the year and
change the process so it cant be 
abused.
 Discounted parking permits. 
Ill work with GSO and Univer
sity Business Services to provide 
cheaper parking permits for stu
dents. 
Accident kills freshman
Drew Harvey, a freshman 
drama student studying techni
cal production and design, died 
April 2.
Harvey, son of Mr. and Mrs. 
Sam Harvey, died as a result of 
injuries suffered in a tragic jet 
skiing accident in Boca Raton, 
Florida. Friends said that he was 
respected for the quality of his
work, and was also a well-liked 
person.
Harveys funeral was held on 
Wednesday, April 6, at St. 
Ignatius Church in New York 
City. Friday, the Drama Depart
ment held a memorial service. 
Harveys girlfriend flew in for the 
service to convey the familys 
thanks for the support shown at 
the funeral and for all the condo
lences they had received.
At the memorial service, 
Harveys statement of purpose, a
paper he had written explaining 
his goals, was read.
Dependable, talented, fo
cused, fun, and a truly good 
person were among the words 
that his friends used to describe 
him. Harvey was vital, energetic, 
and full of promise, said one pro
fessor.
Harveys family may be reached 
at 530 Park Avenue, New York, 
NY 10021.
Compiled by 
SAMANTHA GERICH
You may even get paid for 
reading it.After all, this book from
MasterCard offers lots of useful tips on finding a real 
job, and its written for students by students. To order 
your copy for $9.95, call 1-800-JOB-8894. MasterCard. 
It's more than a credit card. Its smart money;

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Registration requires 
better timing, planning
Spring break is over. Spring 
carnival is on the way. Most 
students are busy trying to catch 
up or get ahead of their work 
being that the end of the year is 
here. However, the university 
decided that approaching final 
exams and deadlines for projects 
wasnt enough. Most students 
arrived back from spring break 
to find that it was time for fall 
registration.
The problem began with the 
late distribution of registration 
information. Fall scheduling 
books werent made available to 
students until the day before 
spring break. Many students 
had already left campus and 
essentially lost a week of plan
ning time. Those who were for
tunate enough to obtain the 
scheduling information before 
break had the extra week to 
schedule, but still werent able 
to consult with their academic 
advisors.
Some departments even 
waited until spring break to 
email their students pertinent 
information about contacting 
advisors and departmental pre
registration. Not only did this 
cause some confusion for stu
dents who were unaware that 
scheduling information was 
available, but we feel that it is 
somewhatinconsiderate. If preregistration is going to happen 
so soon after spring break, stu
dents need more warning.
Since the cause of the problem 
seems to stem from the fact that
spring break came so late, there 
are two possible solutions.
Spring break could be held 
earlier. If this were to happen, 
people would be around and able 
to prepare themselves. Sched
uling wouldnt be so rushed and 
spring break wouldnt disrupt 
it.
If spring break happens to be 
late again, the university could 
release scheduling information 
at least a week before the break. 
Departments should also set up, 
well in advance, pre-registra
tion so that it comes late in the 
week following spring break. 
This would allow students to 
prepare more adequately.
If the administration doesnt 
remedy the situation, it will end 
up making students feel more 
stress. We dont need poor plan
ning to stress students out  
there is enough inherent in uni
versity living as it is.
Maybe this scheduling night
mare happened because of the 
universitys recent penchant for 
combining events. Therefore, we 
suggest that convocation, fam
ily weekend, the international 
festival, spring carnival, com
mencement, orientation, hous
ing picks, spring break, finals, 
and registration all be sched
uled to happen at the same time. 
If this were to happen, we could 
get most of the school year over 
with in one weekend and have 
free time to actually get some 
work done. Then again, maybe 
not.CMU must provide 
lights for students
It seems so rare that we com
pliment CMU, that at first we 
were befuddled as to how to go 
about it. Fortunately, we found 
out that what we thought was 
concern on the part of the ad
ministration turned out to be 
nothing of the sort.
The brighter lights in front of 
Warner Hall make it possible 
for one to walk by the building 
at night without feeling as 
though one is walking through 
the moors depicted in Wuthering 
Heights. That may seem exag
gerated, but for a while, the 
lights in front of Warner were 
inadequate. However, CMU in
stalled these lights in because 
of the pending construction for 
the new University Center. The 
school often says that students 
are their number one concern 
unless of course you count ex
pensive buildings that will, most 
likely, only be worked on during 
the day.
The university has made some 
lighting changes, but only be
cause of the occurrence of a vio
lent crime. Wed like to com
mend the university for getting 
lights on Frew Street. Since that 
area is on the edge of campus, 
there is a much greater possibil
ity for crime to occur to stu
dents.
While some changes have come 
about, there are still improve
ments to be made.
Dorm hill still suffers from a 
lack of brightness during the 
night hours. Since a good pro
portion of students live there, it
Letters to the Editor
Readers dispute abortion column
Editor:
The perspectives of 
many pro-life people, 
ourselves included, 
and those of Abby 
S chiff concerning the
on
Lrmmrx mo 
mdr Efwmox
might be a good idea for the 
university to light the place up 
in order to discourage the crimi
nal element from preying on 
the good students that do have 
to live there.
The area between Wean and 
Porter hall has always been in 
need of proper lighting. Does 
the administration need a vio
lent crime to happen there for 
something to change? The same 
could be said about the Cut area 
between Hunt and Doherty. 
Morewood parking lot could use 
illuminating also.
While were addressing the 
lighting issue, we find that we 
cant be confined to our outside 
environment. Most buildings 
including but not limited to Por
ter and Baker Hall need bet
ter lighting inside. At night 
these places are gloomy, de
pressing, and potentially dan
gerous.
We dont believe the adminis
tration is concerned about elec
tricity costs. With the way com
puters are kept running on this 
campus, there is obviously not a 
fear that costs are going out of 
control.
Maybe the new lighting out
side of Warner is for the pur
poses of construction, we are 
pleased that CMU has started 
to make changes with lighting 
 no matter what motivates 
them. However, we do feel they 
must continue to improve light
ing on this campus if for no 
other reason than to keep our 
community safe.
3/14 Tartan insert, Shes a Child Not a 
Choice, appear to differ on two basic 
points [Pro-life ad intentionally mis
leads, 3/14]. The first is on the purpose 
of the insert. The second is the disposi
tion on whether the life inside a mothers 
womb is in fact a child, or is something 
that is not a child and is subject only to 
the free will of the carrier.
We agree that if the purpose of the ad 
is to provide exhaustive scientific evi
dence, bulletproof arguments, and a 
balanced report of both sides, then it is 
lacking. But we think its purpose was 
quite different: to prdvide a basis for the 
view that the living being inside a 
mothers womb that looks and acts like 
a human very early on is not just an 
inconsequential cluster of cells. It is a 
growing human being whose loss is 
tragic, to the mother (not carrier) and to 
us all because of the intrinsic value of 
human life. The ad tries to non-trivialize 
the act of abortion, what is being de
stroyed in an abortion, and the after
math of abortion.
Wherever one stands on the legality of 
abortion, knowing about what an abor
tion is, what is being aborted, and what 
can happen afterwards is extremely 
important to an informed decision. This 
ad does well to counteract the prevalent 
belief that having an abortion is a rela
tively painless procedure with little con
sequence.
We disagree with many of SchifPs criti
cisms about the inserts facts. Support
ing one side of an argument does not 
amount to twisting information. We 
know of several people who have had 
abortions and who exhibit many of the 
emotional and physical effects described 
in the ads table of statistics, and Planned 
Parenthood itself acknowledges that 
nine out of 10 of women who have safe 
and legal abortions suffer from some 
abortion-induced trauma. The dotted line 
picture is not misleading because it il
lustrates that an aborted baby never 
has the chance to be a cute infant.
Abortion is obviously an emotional 
issue, and communication among those 
on different sides of that issue is sadly 
lacking. The unfortunate result is often 
acrimonious debate and misunderstand
ing. We consider Schiff s charge of hy
pocrisy and lack of integrity an indica
tion of this.
Respect for human life, at all stages, is 
vital for our survival and prosperity in 
society. This starts with a fundamental 
respect for each person, even if their 
views differ from ones own. It continues 
with a healthy regard for the difficulty 
many parents face in keeping an un
planned child. Both pro-life and prochoice supporters go beyond an irre
sponsible and uncompromising just say 
no or condemning mentality to take 
active concern for emotionally and fi
nancially supporting parents. Urging 
people to consider alternatives (see in
sert, page 5) and to take responsibility is 
not disrespect or rights violation. It is 
about considering the negative conse
quences, as Mother Teresa recently
spoke about in DC, that cheapening life 
has for ourselves and others in society.
Chris Newburn, ECE grad student 
Shawn Bushway, Heinz School grad 
student
Barbara Brewton, Administrative 
staff member, Heinz school 
Pete Rander, ECE grad student
Pro-life ad offends reader
Lrmmrx mo 
mdr Efwmox
OEditor:
I was offended by 
the distribution of 
the Human Life 
Alliance (HLAs) 
supplement in
cluded in the March 14 issue of The 
Tartan. Im not saying that I entirely 
disagree with the decision to distribute 
the supplement, but that the rhetoric, 
misinformation, and especially the phi
losophy endorsed, were an affront to my 
intelligence and morality.
Consider the illustration under the 
headline Which is More Valuable? It 
compares a human fetus to an unborn 
eagle. Why should we automatically give 
more value to the child and not the 
chick? Ecologically there is no inherent 
worth in any individual species, but only 
through the interactions of species. By 
using the logic found within the HLAs 
propaganda (on page four, Life Begins 
at Conception), equating the eagle cer
tainly has equally sophisticated and 
unique genes. The loss of the entire 
species, which is not unlikely, would be 
a much greater genetic loss than that of 
30 million unborn children.
The HLA endorses the view that the 
Earth exists only for the procreation of 
homo sapiens, and not the coexistence of 
many millions of species, or even the 
comfortable existence of humans. Con
sider the impact of 30 million American 
children bom since 1972 (roughly a 10 
percent increase in population.) Thats 
equivalent to adding 15 Pittsburgh met
ropolitan areas, complete with roads, 
sewers, landfills, cars, and houses. Even 
given infinite natural resources, this 
would be an almost impossible task. The 
effects on the environment of 30 million 
more American consumers would have 
resulted in a holocaust. The current prob
lems of pollution, resource depletion, 
habitat destruction, waste disposal, and 
(sub)urban sprawl are difficult enough 
without the added burden of a higher 
population. Wilderness areas in the U.S., 
now almost nonexistent in the East, 
would be thinned even further. Many 
endangered species would be extinct and 
new ones threatened. I can think of few 
greater tragedies.
Contrary to the ethos of western reli
gion, human beings are not at the top of 
the hierarchy of life. (See page nine of 
the insert in the March 21 issue of The 
Tartan.) My morality is not that of the 
pro-life movement. I would appreciate it 
if they would stop trying to ram their 
ideology down my throat and realize 
that everyones an individual and en
titled to their own opinion.
One final thought: why doesnt The 
Tartan donate some or all of the pro
ceeds from the advertisement to the CMU 
womens center? There it can be used for 
birth control education, distribution of a 
much broader range of reproductive in
formation, and peer counseling.
After all, I believe in poetic justice. 1 
Robert Simmon
First Church of Christ, Abortionist 
Masters student, MSE
Union article amazes reader
Ge
Lrmmrx mo 
mdr Efwmox
Editor:
I used think the 
folks at the Student 
Union were out of 
touch with reality.
No longer! Take Ja
son Streitfelds recent article, Sex, ide 
ology, & buggy, for example. While' 
initially assumed that Streitfeld was 
simply filling space with nonsensical; 
inflammatory babble because the Stu 
dent Union couldnt fill ad space, it sub
sequently dawned on me that Streitfeld 
is right!
But theres more, Streitfeld! Why, 
those buggy people force their rivers to 
wear nylon harnesses: they strap and tie 
them down, immobilizing the poor 
women inside their buggy-penises. Sure, 
some people will say that these are safety 
harnesses (much the way they try to 
dismiss the obvious phallic shape i 
aerodynamic)... but I think we all know 
what this equipment is really for: bond
age. And this bondage is truly the most; 
hideous form of subjugation that women 
must endure from buggy.
Only slightly less hideous is the wide
spread epidemic of penis envy, common i 
among all buggy drivers. Why else would 
they willingly put themselves into these 
vehicles, enclosing themselves in this; 
phallic shape? Indeed, it could only be 
their subconscious yearning for a penis 
of their own.
I thank Streitfeld and the editors of 
the Student Union for bringing the cam
pus such an insightful article. Long live 
lysergic acid diethylamide!
Adam Glass 
Junior, SDS
Vegan column draws support
01
Lrmmrx mo 
mdr Efwmox
Editor:
Good article by 
Matt Ball [Vegetar
ians choose humane 
lifestyle, 3/21]. A 
few points to add:
1. Cheese is not even vegetarian! 
Cheese contains rennet (disguised by 
the word enzymes on the label), which 
is made from ground-up calfs stomach. 
These are the same calves raised for 
veal, so to eat dairy cheese is the same as 
eating veal.
2. Cholesterol is found only in animal 
products. Fiber is found only in plant 
products. Doctors say we have too much 
cholesterol and not enough fiber in our 
diet. Easy to see why.
3. We are the only species that con
sumes the milk of another species, and 
the only species that drinks milk past 
childhood. The enzymes needed to di
gest milk in our stomachs are gone by 
age 2-1/2 to 3. Earaches, allergies, and 
other ailments in children are caused by 
the casein in milk. The solution? Soymilk4. Dairy products produce more mu
cous and allergies than any food on Earth.
Please see LETTERS, page 1

---------------------------------------------------

Tdr T.xm.a  u.xargwr Mrlloa  11 Aoxwl 19947
Smokers deserve equal rights, justice
Mahua Dutta
Up until this year, I had been sort of a 
wuss smoker.
I would quit, oh lets see now, about five 
or six times a year. I would rationalize the 
cigarettes I had during my periods of non
smoking. I would say things to myself 
things like, Im not really a smoker. I 
mean, Im just having one, or I can 
smoke one cigarette a day and still call 
myself a non-smoker.
Yeah, right. This year I straightened 
up. I pulled myself together and I just did 
it. I accepted the fact that I am, indeed, 
one who smokes. And you know what 
else? I love smoking. Ive been doing it 
ever since I was 12 years old and Im never 
going to quit, or, in light of my past, 
pretend-quit.
I have accepted my habit. All those nonsmokers around me should accept it as 
well. Im tired of being practically perse
cuted by people who dont smoke. Im sick 
of it; I dont want to deal with it anymore.
Im a conscientious smoker. I dont 
smoke around children. I always ask for 
permission to smoke if Im with a nonsmoker. I dont smoke inside my apart
ment (because I understand that my room
mates dont smoke). Im very polite about 
my smoking. I try not to offend others 
with it.. I even try to make sure that nonsmoker companions arent downwind from 
me. I do my best, and if thats not good 
enough, tough luck.
I dont ask for much. I basically just 
want to be able to smoke. Here are my few 
requests:
I want to be able to smoke in the smok
ing section of a restaurant without the
non-smokers nearby complaining about 
the smell. Yes, they pay money for service 
and shouldnt have to deal with the smell, 
but if they have such a problem, why dont 
they ask to be seated elsewhere? I pay 
money for service too; I have the right to 
smoke in the designated area.
Further
more, I have 
the right to 
smoke there 
without hear
ing comments 
like, How can 
those people 
stand the 
smell? or 
How can she 
do that to her
self?
I want to be 
able to smoke 
outside with
out a passerby, 
usually a total 
stranger who - 
has no right to 
bug me, say
ing, You 
shouldnt be 
doing that.
Well, they cer
tainly lead full 
lives. My re
sponse to them 
is, Hey, if you 
have nothing 
better to do
than dictate my life, come over and clean 
my apartment.
Id like it if people around me would stop 
telling me about the hazards of smoking. 
I know that Im giving myself lung cancer. 
I know that Im increasing the chance that 
I may develop breast cancer. I know Im 
shortening my life. Id rather lead a short,
.fun life than a long, boring one. Besides, walking back towards my apartment with 
I enjoy smoking far too much to give it up someone, and I asked if she would mind if 
for mere health reasons. And yes, I know I smoked. Her exact words were, I dont 
about second-hand smoke. Thats why I mind the smoke, but I do mind that youre 
asked you if I could smoke. If you had such hurting yourself. I didnt really know this 
a problem with it, you should have said person. I had just met her a few minutes 
no. before, actually. Where did she get the
right to become my guardian an
gel? Did she really think that her 
serene words of wisdom would 
reach out to me? The fact that she 
really thought she could affect 
me in a positive way baffled me. 
And yes, I did light up.
Last, but not least, I would like 
to be able to smoke in my own car 
when driving with a non-smoker. 
I always ask, and I usually recieve 
Well... Id rather you didnt, as 
an answer. One time in particu
lar I got, You can smoke, but I 
might have a seizure or some
thing because Im allergic to 
smoke and ... That was from a 
militant non-smoker. Dont get 
me wrong; I respect other peoples 
wishes, but after all, its MY CAR!
Maybe some of you still dont 
understand what its like to a 
smoker in this scary, P.C. world. 
Then again, you dont know how 
good a Red tastes. You dont know 
how comforting the smell of ciga
rettes can be on stressful days. 
You cant see the beauty in the 
way smoke dances up into the 
air. So maybe theres no way for 
you to understand, 
the last bit was a bit melodraRamsey Hong/Tartan Art Co-Editor 
Id also like to be left alone by the Okay, 
bleeding heart non-smokers. This type of matic, but you do have to admit that my
experience is a little different from sim
ply being lectured on the evils of smoking. 
These people think they care. Its so bloody 
annoying.
The most aggravating of these experi
ences happened to me last year. I was
requests are simple. Its not difficult to 
oblige me. Have a heart; let me smoke in 
peace.
Mahua Dutta Is a junior professional 
writing major who smokes 17 packs a day.
Letters to the Editor
LETTERS, from page 6
Also the dairy industry conducted 
a study of three groups: whole 
milk consumption; skim milk con
sumption; no dairy or animal 
products at all. The question was: 
who obtained the most calcium? 
Answer: the group consuming no 
animal products. The dairy in
dustry covered up the study.
5. To get milk, when calves' 
are bom they are immediately 
taken away from their grieving 
mothers and confined to a stall 
alone. For 22 out of 24 hours, they 
are in darkness, fed on antibioticlaced, iron-poor milk. They have 
to squash themselves up on their 
legs to sit down and cant turn 
around in the stalls.
6. These calves are the same 
ones slaughtered for veal and the 
rennet in cheese (hence veal = 
cheese).
Their mothers are artificially 
impregnated every year (by 
shocking the bulls testicles to get 
semen) and hooked up to con
fined stalls (with hundreds of 
other crowded cows) with cold 
metallic machines that suck the 
milk from their nipples.
This causes stress as the cows 
grieve for their young and often 
get infections from the machines.
Meanwhile, male bulls are 
branded (screaming), without 
anesthesia, to identify the com
pany.
The solution? Choose soymilk, 
buy Tofu Cookery by Louise 
Haylor (Book Publishing Co.) and 
The Uncheese Cookbook by 
Joanne Stepaniak (Book Pub. 
Co.), available at health food 
stores and co-ops everywhere!
Scott Frizlen 
Pittsburgh
Columns lack reality
Editor:
All year 
long, I have 
been reading 
columnist 
Matt Balls
on
Lrmmrx mo 
mdr Efwmox
pro-vegetarian essays with a mix
ture of sadness and dj vu.
I remember writing similar dog
matic trysts, straight from the 
pages of John Robbins Diet For A 
New America and onto the 
bleached-white pages of the Stu
dent Union  thinking, in my 
zeal, that I could cause people to
change their lifestyles by assault
ing them with statistics and 40- 
dollar words.
As it was, there were a few 
people who read my pro-vegetar
ian essays and who did change 
their lifestyles to the best of their 
ability and circumstance. They 
were vegetarians whenever they 
reasonably could bewhich usu
ally meant whenever they were 
at home.
When one is living in the real 
world in the United States of 
America, as opposed to one inside 
a social vacuum such as Ball por
trays, one learns to compromise 
ones awareness, ethics, and 
Pollyanna-like attitude for the 
sake of maintaining ones social 
and professional networks and 
surviving.
Independently wealthy people 
and well-established professional 
people can afford to be vegetar
ian. People trying to make it in 
a social world usually cant. (This 
doesnt apply to most computer 
programmers.)
The unskilled and semi-skilled 
working class and wage-slaves in 
our society, those who work 50 to 
80 hours per week, are one pay
check from being out on the street. 
They live in the inner city, and
dont get to see a Falafel sand
wich even if they know what it is. 
They learn not to question the 
assumptions they live under, pri
marily because such activity 
would directly affect their dayto-day survival.
I dont doubt that most of the 
facts that Ball provides are cor
rect or at least close enough to the 
truth to warrant attention. I think 
he would be far more effective if 
he were not trying to bludgeon 
his audience like a missionary 
and would instead talk to his au
dience as if they were intelligent 
human beings with long-term 
habits and traditions  most of 
which will not change  and real 
lives.
This is a bit more challenging, 
requiring a bit more thought, 
patience, and acceptance of the 
fact that most Americans are sim
ply not ready to become vegetar
ian and might not until they are 
forced.
... And we run out of water, 
many people die, and scientists 
replace meat with tastier, more 
sophisticated versions of TVP for 
those of us who are left.
Dave McWade 
Pittsburgh
Senate chair urges voting
onEditor:
I would like 
to take this
ooooxmuawms Lrmmrx mo
to remind the .._^ _
campus com- Editor
munity that on April 13,14, and 
15, Student Senate elections will 
take place right next to the Car
nival Midway facing the Cut. Any 
enrolled student can vote; I en
courage you to come out to elect 
your representatives!
In addition, there will be a ref
erendum for undergraduate stu
dents on whether or not the stu
dent body should recommend 
plus/minus grading to the admin
istration. If you have any feelings 
at all about this issue, please come 
out and participate! Student gov
ernment cannot legitimately 
function without support from its 
constituents  so take the five 
minutes and vote! If you have 
any questions, feel free to contact 
me at (412) 862-3901, or prefer
ably, burt+@cmu.edu.
Burt Holzman 
Chair, Student Senate
Anh Nguyen
Senior
CS
Pushing buggy and drink
ing.
A PERSONS
Kevin Chen/Tartan Photographer
Matt Stafford 
Fifth year Senior 
Architecture
Playing volleyball and hang
ing out with my fraternity broth
ers.
Spring Carnival is coming 
up this weekend, bringing 
with it all the fun and frivol
ity CMU students crave yearround. Quite possibly, the only 
drawback is having to decide 
among all the activities of
fered. We asked students: 
What are you going to do 
during Carnival?
Dameta Skinner
Freshman
Art
Goingto Carnival. Hopefully, 
if I dont have too much home
work, Ill enjoy the weekend and 
relax.
Jamie Belliveau 
Sophomore
Mechanical Engineering
Building booth, having a good 
time, and trying not to worry 
about everything else going on 
in my life.
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper 
Since 1906
Editor-in-Chief.........Andrew Sproule
Managing Ed.......Samuel Greenfield
Business Mgr...............Lauren Heinz
News Editor...................Jason Togyer
Forum Editor..................Abby Schiff
Sports Editor...............Eric Strauss
Acting Features Ed.......Keegan Folk
Diversions Co-Editors ....John Biggs 
Tara Zane
Calendar Editor.........Brockett Home
Dossier Literary Co-Eds. Aimee Beal 
Germain E. DeSeve VIII 
Dossier Dsgn. Ed. .R. J. McGinness
Art Co-Editors.................Mark Eggert
Ramsey Hong
Photo Editor.......................Jim Snyder
Production Mgr.............Katie Swango
Copy Manager..............Eileen OShea
Systems Mgr............Chad McDaniel
Asst. News Editor......Eric Salzman
Asst. Forum Ed...............Kris Hinrichs
Asst. Sports Co-Eds......Anuj Gupta
Carolyn Skarada
Asst. Features Ed..........Tonya Rado
Asst. Diversions Ed. Karen Griinberg 
Asst. Production Mgr. Derek Wahila
Photo Staff Manager.....David Perry
Darkroom Manager ....Jennifer Urso
Contributing Editors 
Laura McClure, Brendan McFeely, 
Tina L. Urso, Kathleen Wright
Senior Staff 
Tony deFigio, David Hunt, Micki 
Kochanskyj, Janice McClure, Declan 
McCullagh
Staffwriters 
Matt Adler, Jason Andracki, Matt 
Ball, Jennifer Barkln, Kymberly M. 
Bartlo, David Bazelon, Allan Bourdius, 
Mahua Dutta, Jessica Fang, Andi 
Francioni, Shannon Gibney, Dan 
Goldwasser, Tom Harper, Edward 
Hayes, Jason Heinlein, Justin 
Lam,Angela Molloy, Matthew 
Messner, Jesse Nice, RonakSinghal, 
Jason Specland, Rhonda Struminger, 
Bethany Sutton, Jennifer Turner, 
Mike Walker, John Weber
Art
Gabrien Symons
Comics
Jeffe Boates, Justin Carroll, Nick 
Casciato Jr., Matt Goldberg, Mark 
Kantrowitz, Dexter Kobayashi, David 
White
Photo
Vineet Agarwal, Kevin Chen, Bassem 
El-Dasher, Andrew Flores, Andrew 
McDermott, Pat Prasangsit, Jim 
Snyder, Maria Valenti
Darkroom 
Jon Confer, Daniel Frey, Tom Gilbert, 
Margaret Stallings
Production 
Becky Elroy, Ken Kraemer, Kathy 
Liu, Jason Ma, Carrie McDonough, 
Elizabeth Neuman, Eric Pettus, Jenna 
Sweterlitsch
Copy
Roshni Bhakta, Jennifer Forbes, 
Madhav Ghanta, D. Renee Hairston, 
Yerin Kay, Lisa Kruglak, Ed Slavishak, 
Elizabeth Zambelli
Business 
Christa Bower, Chintan Shah
Junior Staff 
Jin Bae, Robert Brunskill, Chandra 
Buist, Mimi Cheng, Kristen Connell, 
Seth A. Covitz, Samantha Gerich, 
Amy Haupl, Ron Kurti, Buck Neel, 
Chin Oh, Becca Stallings, Daniella 
Topol, Vivien Weiss, Brian Young, 
Lenny Young
The Tartan is the student newspaper of Carn
egie Mellon University. It is a weekly newspa
per published by students during the fall and 
spring semesters, at no cost to members of 
the University community. It is printed by West
ern Pennsylvania Printing, Inc. Subscriptions 
are available for the semester or academic 
year. The editorials appearing at the beginning 
of the opinion section are the official opinion of 
The Tartan editorial board. Columns and politi
cal cartoons are the opinions of individual 
creators. The Tartan reserves the right to 
reject or condense any column or political 
cartoon. Letters to the Editor are opinions of 
authors who are usually, but not necessarily, 
members of the University community. A letter 
intended for publication must be signed and 
include the writer's address and phone num
ber for verification. Names will be withheld 
upon request. The Tartan requests that letters 
be no longer than 500 words. The Tartan 
reserves the right to condense or reject any 
letter. Copyright  1994 by The Tartan. The 
Tartan editorial board reserves the right to 
withhold from publication any copy it deems 
unfit for publication.
Office: Skibo 50 (412) 268-2111 
Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/Camegle 
Mellon University/Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890 
Funded in part by your Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN #: 0890-3107.

---------------------------------------------------

8Tdr T.xm.a  u.xargwr Mrlloa  11 Aoxwl 1994
uuxm.wlwag ixwmr iomrn .m dwgd oxwir wa Swag.ooxr
David Hunt
There has been a brouhaha stir
ring over the impending corporal 
punishment of an American teen
ager in Singapore. Some people 
are saying that the caning is a 
good idea and that itll teach the 
boy a good lesson. Others believe 
it to be torture and thus cruel and 
unusual punishment.
The youth in question was 
found guilty of vandalism, but he 
didnt just break a window or 
two. He spray-painted cars, egged 
them, switched license plates, and 
caused over $10,000 in damage. 
His punishment includes jail 
time, a fine, and six blows from a 
rattan cane, administered by a 
martial arts expert. The blows 
typically split the skin, causing 
significant pain and permanent 
scarring.
Were this a 12-year-old kid, Id 
argue with those who believe it
cruel and unusual. But he was 
18, he knew full well that what he 
was doing was illegal, and he 
should have known that Sing
apore is not the United States. 
Their laws are well posted and 
clear. He had no excuse.
Singapore is very safe and 
clean, but laws govemeverything. 
Spit on the sidewalk, drop litter, 
or forget to flush a public toilet, 
and get fined. Incorrect hairstyles 
are officially frowned upon. Dayto-day life in Singapore is micromanaged by its government. With 
the high crime levels in the U.S., 
many people are pointing to coun
tries like Singapore, England, 
Germany, and Japan as coun
tries which are civilized and 
have low crime rates.
At the risk of having some read
ers say Oh, no, not again, I will 
add that the above countries have 
strong gun control legislation, or 
even ban guns altogether. But I 
add this only because those who 
wish gun control here point to 
those countries as examples of 
how low crime correlates with
few guns. Its not that simple.
In Singapore you can walk any
where in virtually complete 
safety, so long as youre autho
rized. The government intrudes 
everywhere, and penalties are 
high. Certain speech, actions, and 
other freedoms are highly cur
tailed. I dont know, but I would 
imagine there are few rules for
bidding forced confessions. Many 
freedoms that we Americans take 
for granted either dont exist or 
are highly limited in their scope. 
We would consider many of their 
punishments cruel and un
usual.
England is another country 
where freedoms are more limited 
than in the U.S. Did you know 
that if you plead the Fifth, i.e. 
refuse to answer on the grounds 
that your answer might incrimi
nate you, in England that is taken 
as an admission of guilt? In other 
words, either you admit to doing 
it, or if you refuse to talk about it 
they assume you did it and pro
ceed to the sentencing. So much 
for the right to avoid self-incrimi
nation.
In the U.S., with our separa
tion between church and state, 
having churches financially sup
ported by the government would 
be illegal. In Germany, however, 
your paycheck has an automatic 
tithe to the churches. I believe 
you can specify which denomina
tion, but a tithing system is built 
in to the German tax structure. 
So much for truly free practice of 
religion.
My last example is Japan. Ev
eryone talks about how safe Ja
pan is, but many rights that we 
take for granted are not granted 
in Japan. Professor Matsumoto, 
a Tokyo University historian, 
states that a Japanese citizen 
who takes issue with his govern
ment commits a grave sin. The 
Japanese police consider all anti
government political activity to 
be subversive. So much for free
dom of speech.
Twice a year Japanese police 
interview residents, checking on 
their work, their income, their 
cars, and other personal infor
mation. In Japan, police can de
tain suspects without bail for 28 
days with no prosecutor actions, 
and a common tactic is to re
arrest a person on a different 
charge to extend the detention. 
Being held for months is not un
common.
Suspects in detention can only 
meet with counsel for a few min
utes a week, and family visits can 
be denied. Twelve hour interro
gations are allowed, as is deny
ing washing facilities for days 
and even prohibiting suspects 
from lying down in their cells! No 
wonder confession rates are above 
90 percent! Amnesty Interna
tional calls the Japanese police 
custody system a flagrant viola
tion of U.N. human rights prin
ciples; so much for protection 
against unreasonable search and 
seizure.
Japan is safe. Small comfort 
when you have been accused of a 
crime. Singapore is safe, unless 
you happen to forget to flush a 
toilet. The former Soviet Union 
used to be safe, unless you hap
pened to disagree with the gov
ernment or were religious or gay 
or ... What these safe societies 
have in common is a lack of free
dom, and harsh penalties for law
breakers.
Freedom has a price. Freedom 
of speech carries a risk that some
one will say something offensive. 
Freedom of religion means that 
you have to put up with beliefs 
you dont like, in order to protect 
your own freedom to practice as 
you desire. The freedom to bear 
arms for sporting or self-defense 
means risking occasional fire
arms accidents. Freedom of pri
vacy means that the police 
shouldnt be allowed to search 
you on a whim, confiscate your 
property without charge, or re
quire your phone to be eavesdropping-compatible.
To quote Patrick Henry: Is life 
so dear, or peace so sweet, as to be 
purchased at the price of chains 
and slavery?
David Hunt is a mechanical 
engineering graduate student.
LAFILIPINIAN,
Private Garden Parties 
Take-out service/Catering ETHNIC HEALTHY FIUP1NO CUISINE
t\ El M \ru\ PHILOSOPHERS BRUNCH & WORKSHOPi:pn, 2-.u(.i QjKoorv.uion*- Kimnrai ol/?781-8724
M.jox uxrfwm u.xfn Aiiiomrf 
R.mrf 4 FORKS -s The Post-Cazette 
R.mrf -s The Pittsburgh Press
.By i AbreA Aa 
GET 2NI) ENTREE 
FOR 1/2 PRICE
B.Y.O.B. Y.ilid ihm b.-pl 1 \ ]ll 1
5321 Butler St.  Lawrenceville 
781-8724 Reservations AcceptedHours: Wed thru Sun 5pm-10pm
Lfw Stndi-t 
F.cnIty F.xio
International destinations 
Discounted domestic fares 
AYH & Eurail Passes
FORUM
TRAVEL
Experienced, friendly service.
4608 Winthrop St.
(off S. Craig in Oakland)
Mon. - Fri. 9-5 pm 
Sat. 10-1 pm . 
!.II 6d1-4099 V
Syracuse University
Division of Internationa! Programs Abroad 
119 Euclid Avenue 
Syracuse, New York 13244-4170 
1-800-235-3472
ff 1
AV"
SYRACUSE ABROAD 
Something to write home about!
 Programs in Africa, Australia, Belgium, Czech Republic, England, 
France, Germany, Hungary, Israel, Italy, Poland, and Spain
 Prior foreign language not always necessary
 SU credit
 Field trips/traveling seminars
 Internships
 Study for a semester, a year, or a summer
 Home or limited apartment placements
Applications still being accepted
Welcome Back
ALUMNI
!I.oo ff 196d - m5th Rin-uf!I.oo ff 19d9 ~ 5th Rin-uf!I.oo ff 1993 - 1ot Rin-ufFriday, April 15,1994
Buggy Races, 8 - 11am* 
Midway open, 11am- 11pm
Saturday, April 16,1994
Buggy Races, 8 - 11am* 
Midway open, 11am - 6:00pm
Alumni House open, Noon - 4pm Alumni House open, 1 - 5pm
* During Buggy Races, stop by the Alumni Association 
tent near the finish line for coffee and donuts!
Students
Take a good look around campus! You may not realize it, 
but you enjoy the gifts of generous alumni everyday!
16,000 Alumni give every year! Here are just a few examples ...
Walter J. Blenko, E'50
Walter J. Blenko Senior Scholarship
Larry E. Jennings, Jr. CS'84, IA'87
Jenningp Family Scholarship
Mary Louise Rasmuson, MM'32, A'59 Honorary Alumni 
Mary Louise Milligan Rasmuson Scholarship
George A. Roberts, E'39, '41, '42
Electronics Materials Technology Building "George A. Roberts Hall
Estate of Verner S. Purnell, A'26
Center for the Arts Building Fund
Charlie Peters, A'77
Center for the Arts Building Fund
Bud Yorkin E'48
Center for the Arts Building Fund
John M. Wells, A'79
Center for the Arts Building Fund
Andrew I. Merson, PM'63
University Center and the Undergraduate Enhancement Fund
Jean Robinson, MM'34
General Scholarship Fund

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
Gol! mr.m ndwarn wa noxwag
Team finishes second in W. Va. tourney
By ANU J GUPTA
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
The CMU mens golf team came back 
after its spring break trip in fine fashion 
Wednesday as they took second in the 
Speidel Invitational, held in Wheeling, 
West Virginia.
Marietta University 
took first place overall 
with a score of420 but the 
Tartan men were right 
behind them with a total 
score of 426.
The Invitational was 
highlighted by CMUs own 
Ryan Elliott, the senior 
captain of the team. Elliott 
earned medalist honors by 
shooting an 82, which was 
10 over par.
The Tartans then trav
eled to Hiram University on Saturday 
for the Hiram Invitational. After coming 
off a successful tournament at the Speidel 
Invitational, the Tartan men wound up 
struggling at Hiram, as they finished in 
seventh place out of nine teams.
Senior Ed Lee led the Tartan men New Jersey Tech.
with a score of 82, and was followed by 
Elliotts 86, senior Steve Kolecki with a 
91, sophomore Josh Kenin with a 95 and 
senior Nick Inkenhaus with a score of 
96.
Although the teams struggle was a bit 
of a disappointment, it wasnt much of a 
surprise, for as Elliott 
put it, We never play 
well at this course. 
When asked what type 
of bearing this tourna
ment would have on the 
rest of season, Elliott re
sponded, I dont think 
this will be a sign of 
things to come. The next 
two weekends are much 
bigger for us.
Next weekend during 
Carnival, the Tartan 
men travel to Boston to 
face Massachusetts Institute, of Tech
nology on Sunday. Then the tea, will 
play in the Engineers Cup on Monday 
which will also feature Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology, Renssalaer and 
Worcester Polytechnic Institutes, and
mVa
Gabrien Symons/Tartan artist
Womran mraawn nwwagn Soumd
By ERIC STRAUSS
Tartan Sports Editor
The CMU womens tennis team 
stay ed busy while the rest of the school 
was on break. The team travelled all 
over, playing seven matches between 
March 26 and April 4. The team went 
3-4 in those contests, leaving their 
season mark at 712.
The Tartans opened strong, travel
ling to Catholic University to take on 
Marymount College. Senior co-captain 
Whitney Weber won a thrilling comefrom-behind three-set match to give 
CMU a 5-4 win.
Junior Stephanie Kukura, senior cocaptain Sharyn Rotunno, and sopho
more Miriam Huang also had singles 
wins, and Kukura and sophomore 
Namita Amin picked up CMUs lone 
doubles win.
Whitneys win was the highlight of 
the trip, Rotunno said.
The next day, the Tartans picked up 
another 5-4 win, this time defeating 
Methodist University in Fayetteville, 
N.C. Weber, Kukura, andHuanggot 
singles wins, and the teams of Weber
and Rotunno and Kukura and Amin got 
the doubles victories.
The following day, CMU took on 
DePauw University, but did not win a 
match,falling9-0.NoCMU player could 
even win a set.
The team travelled to Hilton Head, 
S.C., with nowhere to go but up, and 
they did improve, but not enough to 
defeate Cabrini. The team downed CMU 
6-3. Amin had the lone singles win, and 
the doubles teams ofWeber and Rotunno 
and Kukura and Amin got wins.
St. Thomas was the next team the 
Tartans took on, but the results were not 
pleasant, as CMU got swept again. The 
closest match was Rotunnos. She 
stretched Allison Metcalfto three sets in 
the third singles contest, but could not 
pull off a win.
However, the Tartans took out their 
frustration against St. Marys on April 
Fools day, picking up a big 6-1 win. The 
Tartans took five of the six singles 
matches, with Weber, Kukura, Rotunno, 
Amin, and Huang getting the wins. 
Kukura and Rotunno won the first 
doubles match, and the remaining 
matches were not played.
Hilton Head is the warm-up for 
UAAs, Rotunno said. We did better 
in Hilton Head than we expected. 
UAAs will be a lot more difficult. 
Last Monday, the Tartans returned 
home to Pittsburgh and took on West
ern Pennsylvania rival Allegheny Col
lege, falling 6-3. Kukura and Rotunno 
got the singles wins, and teamed up 
for the doubles win.
The team will next be in action at 
Washington University ofMissouri for 
the UAA Championships. The meet 
will take place from April 15-17, this 
coming weekend. After that, the team 
has a number of other matches to 
round out the season.
They will have to do it shorthanded, 
however. Weber is injured, and will 
not be playing in the near future.
The team, which returns three 
lettermen from last year, will now 
have to bump everyone up a notch in 
the rankings. As they did against Al
legheny, Kukura will be playing num
ber one singles in Webers place and 
Rotunno playingnumbertwo. The two 
will also be the number one doubles 
team.
Rug-s ilu- xrm.wan uafr!r.mrf
By JUSTIN LAM
Tartan Staffwriter
The CMU ruggers extended 
their winning streak to four by 
trouncing Westminster College 
32-3 on Saturday on nearby 
Kirkpatrick Field.
The game started quickly for 
CMU, with solid passing and run
ning from the back line. This ac
tion was in stark contrast to 
CMUs conservative approach 
against Indiana University of 
Pennsylvania last week.
Senior Mike De La Cruz broke 
through the Westminster line to 
score the games first try only 
three minutes into the half, and 
freshman Larry Adams converted 
sucessfully on the kick to make 
the score 7-0.
The CMU onslaught didnt stop 
there, and senior Mike Keller 
crashed through the Westminster 
centers five minutes later to make 
the score 12-0.
The CMU ruggers continued to
dominate on every posession, and 
systematically shut down the op
position.
Ball movement from the for
wards to a fast running backline 
was excellent, and only five min
utes later, Adams scored his first 
try of the game, making the score 
17-0.
Ten minutes later, Adams 
scored his second try in the cor
ner of the try zone, making the 
score 22-3.
Adams scored his third try be
fore the end of the first half to 
make the score 27-3, finishing 
off an impressive hat trick.
Consequently, CMU showed 
impressive defensive efforts as 
well, with continued solid tack
ling throught the half.
Westminster seemed to have 
regrouped defensively during the 
halftime, and indeed a scoring 
drought occured for most of the 
second half.
Although there were a number 
of close opportunities to score,
the score remained the same for 
much of the half. It wasnt until 
freshman Jared Simpson sealed 
the victory with five minutes re
maining in the half to make the 
score 32-3.
Incidentally, CMU used its 
cushion and experimented with a 
number of sophisticated yet un
tested forward manuevers, and 
tried to run the ball with the wing 
forwards attacking the weak side 
of the field.
The CMU ruggers looked 
mighty impressive against the 
relatively inexperienced West
minster team. Ball handling, run
ning, scrums, and mauls were 
excellent in most regards.
CMU looks favored to win the 
University of Pittsburgh-Johns
town Blood Tournament next 
week in Johnstown.
Among the teams present will 
be Juniata, Allegheny, West
minster, and Bethany colleges, 
with other teams to be announced 
this week.
I.wam-.ll ndoomn fowa oooonwmwoa
By CAROLYN SKARADA
Tartan Assista7it Sports Editor
On April 2, Carnegie Mellon com
peted in the NAAPSA Intercolle
giate Paintball tournament held in 
LaPorte, Indiana.
Senior team captain and presi
dent of the club Mike Sheldrich 
teamed up with Alex Rose, a junior 
design major who plays profession
ally and graduate student Andy 
McGowan to create the club which 
is now known as Tech Dragoon.
As far as we know this was the 
first intercollegiate paintball tour
nament, Sheldrich said.
The tournament was designed as 
round robin. The top four teams 
advanced to the finals. The final 
four teams in order of place were 
Michigan, CMU Tech Dragoons, 
Washington, and West Virginia.
Other CMU players in this tour
nament were senior Bruce Sherrod, 
alumnus Eric Morgan, and junior 
Eric Meyhoffer.
V/UuiLcsy ui BAkAB rciimuaii uiuu
CMU senior Bruce Sherrod takes aim on the enemy during the 
NAAPSA Intercollegiate Paintball tournament In Indiana.
Track teams impress at Invitational
By CAROLYN SKARADA
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
On Saturday, April 9, CMU held 
one of the largest track and field 
ineets in the East at Gesling sta
dium, the Carnegie Mellon Invi
tational. Forty teams attended 
the meet with over 2,000 com
petitors entered in all the events. 
There were a few Division I 
schools, but the majority of teams 
were Division II and III. In each 
event the top three winners were 
recognized individually; no team
scores were kept.
Coming back after spring 
break took us a week to get back 
on track, but I was very pleased 
with Saturdays performance, 
womens coach Dario Donatelli 
said.
For the womens team, fresh
man Penny Summerville had the 
best performance of the day, ac
cording to Donatelli.
She placed second in the jav
elin event, setting a new school 
record with a distance of 142'11". 
She was an automatic qualifier 
for Nationals. 
This means that 
her qualifica
tion did not de
pend on anyone 
else.
Senior Aliza 
Hildebrandt 
came in first 
place in the 
10,000-meter 
run, winning by 
a large margin. 
Her time for this 
was 38:59.
Carnegie 
Mellons 4 x 400 
meter relay fin
ished second 
during the day. 
The team con
sisted of fresh
man Saratu 
Mohammad, 
sophomores 
Missy Baustert 
and Stephanie 
Stine, and fresh
man Vonquitra 
Bebee.
Baustert and Bebee both fin
ished high in individual events 
as well. Baustert placed third in 
the 400-meter hurdles in 1:07.26 
and in the open 100-meter dash, 
Bebee placed sixth with a time of 
:13.30.
Setting a school record in dis
cus, freshman Leslie Brown 
placed second with a distance of 
116'6".
The mens team also had a num
ber of highlights at the meet. 
Probably one of the best events of 
the day was the mens mile relay, 
finishing in second place with a 
time of 3:24.1.
They did an exceptionally fine 
job and were very close to win
ning, coach Gary Meckley said. 
Members of the relay team were
seniors Jeff Gregor, Mike Rea, 
and Jarrod Siket, and grad stu
dent Brad Shapiro.
Both [junior] Jason Grusky 
[third, 4810.5"] and [sophomore] 
Demi Carrothers [eighth, 
4310.25"] did very well in shot 
put. The 4 xlOO meter team had 
the best time of the year [eighth, 
:44.07], placing in the top 10, 
Meckley said.
This was excep
tionally good con
sidering the num
ber of entries in 
each event.
The members of 
this relay team 
were senior Gary 
Long, freshmen 
Eric Limegrover 
and Buck Neel, 
and senior Jarrod 
Siket.
Neel also com
peted well in the 
100-meter and 
200-meter 
sprints, finishing 
fifth and seventh, 
respectively.
Senior Phil 
Beck did his best 
all year, placing 
sixth in the pole 
vault competition. In the inter
mediate and high hurdles senior 
Deron Haley and freshman 
Jordon Hopkins both stood out 
among the rest.
Haley finished seventh in the 
110-meter high hurdles.
All in all, I thought our men 
had probably the best perfor
mance all year. The coaches from
Pat Prasangsit/Tartan Photographer 
CMU vaulted over a number of opponents in the 
CMU Invitational this weekend.
Pat Prasangsit/Tartan Photographer 
Senior Aliza Hildebrand won the 10,000-meter 
run at the CMU Invitational, one of two CMU wins.
Pat Prasangsit/Tartan Photographer 
Junior Jason Grusky hurls the shot for the Tartans at the CMU 
Invitational held this weekend. Grusky finished third.
the other schools kept remarking 
on how much they liked our fa
cilities and the way CMU coordi
nated the meet.
There is a possibility of invit
ing more teams next year, since 
there is an even greater amount 
of interest in this particular 
meet, Meckley said.
He also said, Id like to extend 
my gratitude to all the people 
from CMU for helping us get 
through the day.
Coming up for the womens 
team, this Wednesday is a home 
womens invitiational at Gesling 
stadium. Other teams attending 
are Robert Moms, Duquesne Uni
versity, and Grove City College. 
Next Sunday they will compete 
at the University of Pittsburgh 
Invitational, and then they have 
the UAA championships at 
Emory University. The men have 
a similar schedule for the remain
der of the season.

---------------------------------------------------

10Tdr T.xm.a  u.xargwr Mrlloa  11 Aoxwl 1994
Hockey teams shoot for the Stanley Cup
The Puck Stops Here
by Allan Bourdius
The New York Rangers clinched their Becond 
Presidents Trophy as the regular-season champi
ons in the past three years with a 5-3 home victory 
over the Toronto Maple Leafs on Friday night. A 
minor three-game slump by the New Jersey Devils
 including a loss to the Rangers  ended their 
chances of winning their firBt-ever Trophy.
The 1993-94 Stanley Cup Playoffs are just one 
week away. The playoff situation in the Western 
Conference is already fixed. Two spots remain 
open in the East; four teamB playoff hopes are still 
realistically alive. The Washington Capitals have 
yet to ensure themselves a berth with three games 
remaining, but a quick look at their schedule (in
cluding home games against both Ottawa and 
Winnipeg) shows that they will make it, barring a 
total collapse.
The New York Islanders and the expansion 
Florida Panthers are currently tied with 80 points 
for eighth place in the conference; the edge cur
rently goes to the Islanders based on more wins. 
Looking at both teams remaining games, they will 
probably each split their next two games. (The 
Islanders host the Rangers and viBit Tampa Bay; 
the Panthers host two home games against New 
Jersey and Quebec.) The die has been caBt for a 
spectacular finish: The Islanders and Panthers 
face off at the Miami Arena on Thursday, the last 
day of the regular season.
The Flyers playoff outlook is somewhat more 
bleak. As of Friday, they sat three points behind 
the Panthers and Islanders with 77. Their last two 
games of the season are against the two best teams 
in the league, the Devils and Rangers. New Jersey 
has beaten the Flyers in every meeting this season. 
Devils netminder Chris Terreri will certainly start 
the game; hes 16-3-3 lifetime against Philadel
phia.
The Quebec Nordiques are mathematically still 
in playoff contention, but a win or tie by either the 
Panthers or Islanders will eliminate them.
The new conference-based playoff system should
make for an interesting spring in the West. Just 
three teams from the surprisingly weak Pacific 
Division qualified, with the biggest surprise being 
the Los Angeles Kings, last years runner-up. The 
Kings never got in sync this season, and will spend 
the summer wondering what might have been, not 
whether or not this is their year.
The new playoff format gives the two division 
winners the top two seeds based on their respective 
records. The next best six teams after the division 
winners are seeded third through eighth. While 
the Western Conference matchups arent set in 
stone, they probably wont change, either. Heres a 
preview of the Western Conference quarterfinals. 
The teams seed is in parentheses; the team with
home-ice advantage is listed first. Next week, Ill 
give the Eastern Conference preview.
Detroit Red Wings (1) vs. San Jose Sharks 
(8). San Jose became the first of the five recent 
expansion teams to make the playoffs almost a 
week ago. There are two keys to the Sharks playoff 
dreams. First, veteran center Igor Larionov must 
remain healthy. Through game 76, the Sharks 
were 26-18-9 with him in the lineup, 2-15-6 
without him. Latvian goaltender Arturs Irbe has 
come into his own as a solid NHL-caliber netminder; 
his goals against average is hovering around 2.9. If 
anything is going to destroy the Red Wings, it will 
be overconfidence.
Whereas strong goaltending is a San Jose asset, 
goaltending doubts must be lingering in the mind 
of Detroit coach Scotty Bowman. His only experi
enced playoff goalie is Bob Essensa, who is just 4- 
5 in playoff games. Detroit has the number one 
offense in the league at 4.25 goals per game, but 
San Joses tight checking, defensive style could 
well frustrate them and shut down the likes of 
Sergei Fedorov and Steve Yzerman. This one is 
ripe for an upset.
Prediction: San Jose in 7.
Calgary Flames (2) vs. Chicago Blackhawks 
(7). When the Flames had seven starters out of the 
lineup with injuries back in December and Janu
ary, most had Calgary written off as dead. Some
how, the Flames found ways to win games, ensur
ing themselves their fourth division championship 
in seven seasons. The Flames are a well-balanced 
offensive team but are lethal on the power play. 
Chicagos season has been a disappointment from 
beginning to end. The Hawks are a one-dimensional team, relying almost totally on center Jer
emy Roenick to carry the team offensively. They 
gave themselves aboost by acquiring Tony Amonte 
and sharpshooter Gary Suter from the Rangers at 
the trading deadline, but they have yet to make an 
impact in the Windy City.
Chicagos Ed Belfour gives the Blackhawks an 
edge in net, but you cant ignore Flame netminder
Mike Vernons career 40-29 playoff record.
Prediction: Calgary in 5.
Toronto Maple Leafs (3) vs. Vancouver 
Canucks (6). This series is a matchup between 
two of the most potent goal scorers in the NHL 
today: Torontos Dave Andreychuk and Vancouvers 
Pavel Bure. However, playoff series are won more 
by defense and two-way play than by offensive!! 
flashiness.
The Leafs are a well-rounded squad but also! 
have the tendency to be fragile. Toronto relies more 
on Doug Gilmour for play in both ends of the ice]1 
than any other team does on their number one! 
center. The Leafs supporting cast, particularly-; 
John Cullen, needs to step up their play to takei 
some of the load off his shoulders. Vancouver has 
an offensive edge, but also the tendency to make I 
costly defensive errors.
The Canucks frequently collapse in front of their! 
own net, leaving goaltenders Kirk MacLean and1 
Kay Whitmore defenseless. Torontos Felix Potvin' 
has been very streaky this season, but hes still one I 
of the most solid men in the cage. Its going to be a 
close one.
Prediction: Toronto in 6.
Dallas Stars (4) vs. St. Louis Blues (5). If I 
there is anything like a grudge match in the West
ern Conference, this is it. Its the only playoff' 
matchup in the conference that pits two teams 
from the same division against each other. This 
series will probably resemble shootouts rather 
than hockey games.
St. Louis is the only team in the league that has! 
a winning record and has allowed more goals than 
they have scored. Blues goaltenders Curtis Joseph 
and Jim Hrivnak see more rubber than any other 
duo in the league. The Blues allow over 35 shotson-goal per game and the Stars have plenty of 
shooters, but few accurate ones. One things cer
tain for this series  dont expect a defensive 
classic.
St. Louis Brett Hull and Brendan Shanahan are . 
the best one-two punch from the right wing on any 
team in the league. If it comes down to a goal fest, 
Dallas has painfully few clutch goal scorers besides 
center Mike Modano.
Dallas goalie Andy Moog has the advantage in 
playoff experience, but his age (34) could be his 
downfall as the series winds on and fatigue sets in.
Prediction: St. Louis in 6.
Allan Bourdius is a fifth-year senior double ma
joring in applied history and industrial manage
ment.
Eric Watts/Tartan Artist
has a deal for you
CLO STUDENT COUPONS 
6 Tickets for $30!
The Hot Mikado (June 14-19)
The Music Man (June 21-July 3)
7 Brides for 7 Brothers (July 5-10)
Fiddler On The Roof (July 12-24) 
Mame (July 26-August 7)
Lunch (August 9-14)
STUDENT COUPON ORDER FORM  MAIL ORDER ONL Y!
Name
Address
CityStateZIP
Phone#School
* Enclose a copy of your student ID or your last report card & ID and a $30.00 check or 
money order made payable to the Civic Light Opera. Mail to: CLO-Student Coupon 
Program, Benedum Center, 719 Liberty Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA 15222. For additional 
information call, (412) 281-2822. Mail order only, no walk-ins, please.
NOTE:When you receive your 6 vouchers, they may be redeemed individually or in any combination for individual bckets atthe 
Benedum Ctr. Box Office beginning May 16th. Just present your voucher and ID at the Box Office tor the best seats 
available in the Second Tier. Applicable for the above 6 shows, this represents a savings of up to $B4!
Urn It One Set ol Vouchers Per Student  Deadline to Purchase Vouchers-June 19
Fall 1994 H&SS Interdisciplinary Course:
66-315, The Holocaust 
Perspectives in Historical 
Perspective, 9 units
Description: Why did Hitler unleash the 
Holocaust against the Jews? How did he do it, 
and how did he get away with it? This course 
will challenge you to explore the attitudes and 
actions of the perpetrators, the bystanders and 
the victims. Moreover, it will discuss what im
plications and issues arise from this watershed 
event in World and Jewish history. It will de
scend into the world of the Holocaust not only 
by reading about events and viewing several 
films, but also by meeting some Holocaust sur
vivors themselves. No History prerequisite is 
needed. Registration for this course during 
Registration week will take place in the H&SS 
Academic Advisory Center, Baker Hall 161.

---------------------------------------------------

Tdr T.xm.a  u.xargwr Mrlloa  H Aoxwl 199411
Atlanta Braves poised on edge of dynasty
The Suicide Squeeze
by Anuj Gupta
In the modem era of baseball, when 
free agency and salary arbitration heargs run rampant, the thought of buildg a dynastyperennial champions  
as realistic an idea as the Cubs some
day winning a pennant. The closest thing 
the baseball world has seen to a dynasty 
vas the Oakland Athletics of1988-1992, 
md they came away with only one World 
Series title.
But the present-day Atlanta Braves 
nay change all that, for although they 
iave come away empty handed from the 
last three post-seasons, they are still the 
nost talented team in the game and 
have more youth in them than a bottle of 
Oil of Olay. So as the young season of 
;994 starts to kick into high gear, lets 
ret a preview of these multi-talented 
Braves along with the Philadelphia 
Phillies, Montreal Expos, Florida Mariins, and New York Mets  the teams 
that comprise the newly aligned Na
tional League East.
Atlanta Braves: The question is not 
Will they contend? but Just how far 
dll they go? True, the Braves wear the 
ero for three collar in recent post-seaon history, but they are still young and 
ire now in a division with their newly 
pronounced nemesis  the Phillies  
which can only provide more motiva
tion.
The Braves are also the only team in 
reeent history which can lose players of 
Ron Gant, Chipper Jones, and Gregg 
Olsons caliber and have more than 
ample replacements waiting in the
wings. So although some of the names 
have changed, it remains hard to pitch 
around anyone in a lineup which fea
tures David Justice, FredMcGriff, Deion 
Sanders, Terry Pendleton, Jeff Blauser, 
and rookie phenoms Ryan Klesko, Tony 
Tarrasco, and Javy Lopez. It will be 
especially interesting to see what Neon 
Deion Sanders does with his first crack 
at a full season in the majors, as he does 
have the potential for 15-20 home runs 
and 50 stolen bases as the Braves leadoff hitter.
This all goes without even mentioning 
a pitching staff that is by far the most 
dominating staff in baseball since the 
mighty foursome featured by the Ori
oles in the early 70s. The staff already 
has four Cy Young awards to its name 
(two for Greg Maddux, one for Tom 
Glavine, one for Steve Bedrosian), andit 
would be safe to say that Steve Avery 
and John Smoltz will each win one be
fore their careers are over. The dark 
horse here though, may be the fifth 
starter, Kent Mercker, who was the first 
pick of 1986 draft. Should he blossom, 
the Braves will have no glaring weak
ness except for the fact that they have no 
true closer.
Manager Bobby Cox and General 
Manager John Schuerholz are the best 
one-two punch in the National League. 
They will do whatever it takes to get the 
job done, as evidenced by the Fred 
McGriff deal. It is only a matter of time 
before they start collecting their share of 
championship rings.
Florida Marlins: Owner Wayne 
Huizenga is becoming the Ted Turner of 
the Miami area. Not only does he have 
his own entertainment industry, video 
rental chain, ice hockey team, and base
ball team, but also he has recently pur
chased a share of the Miami Dolphins.
The Marlins are young and inexperi
enced, and the only star attraction they 
currently possess is Gary Sheffield, who 
isnt exactly a household name himself.
Despite the fact that Jeff C onine, Orestes 
Destrade, Bret Barbarie, and Benito 
Santiago can all play in their own right, 
they are only holdovers until names such 
as Carl Everett, Charles Johnson, 
Darrell Whitmore, and Nigel Wilson are 
ready to become the talk of the town.
The same goes for the staff for it will 
only be a matter of time before Ryan 
Bowen, Pat Rapp, and Chris Hammond 
reach their long-promised potential and 
are joined by prospects such as Kurt 
Miller, RobbNenn, and Matt Whisenant. 
Marlins pitchers also have the security 
that any lead they have in the ninth is 
virtually padlocked in the hands of closer 
Bryan Harvey.
Rene Lachemanis in the Tony LaRussa 
mold and therefore has the patience 
which will be required to be successful 
with this team.
Montreal Expos: There is no better 
example of the trials and tribulations of 
a small-market team in todays big 
spending era than the Montreal Expos. 
For an organization which has produced 
bonafide major leaguers on such a con
sistent basis for such a long period of 
time, one would think that the Expos 
would be challenging Atlanta for the 
title of the first modern-day dynasty. 
But financial restraints allow no more 
than a few years with their prized pros
pects before they are whisked away to 
other teams for more prospects.
One has to wonder how much longer 
the best outfield in baseball (Marquis 
Grissom, Moiss Alou, Larry Walker) 
can stay together as their market value 
continues to rise and prospects continue 
to pile up behind them. But if they can be 
held in. place for one or two more years 
and phenom Cliff Floyd reaches his po
tential, the Expos lineup could become 
the elite of the National League.
The same story holds for the pitching 
staff, for with the departure of longtime 
ace Dennis Martinez, the Expos are left 
without a true staff ace for the first time
in seven seasons. But that is not to say 
that the potential isnt there, because in 
Ken Hill, Jeff Fassero, KirkRueter, and 
Pedro Martinez, the Expos have the 
makings of a dominating staff. They are 
also joined by a bullpen which features 
Mel Rojas and John Wetteland  the 
best setup man/closer combination this 
side of San Francisco.
The question remains, can the Expos 
ever maintain some continuity and try 
to keep one group of youngsters all to
gether for some length of time? Felipe 
Alou is the right manager for this task, 
for he has the patience with youngsters 
needed at this level, but his hands are 
tied by management.
New York Mets: The Mets have-real
ized their past mistakes and, after a 
thorough housecleaning, have gone back 
to the methods that made them the 
winningest team in baseball from 1985-
1990. First they rehired manger Dallas 
Green, who is one of the few true base
ball men left today, and then hired gen
eral manager Joe Mcllvaine, who built 
the 1986 Championship team. Mcllvaine 
knows the farm system is dried up and 
so has started on the process of unload
ing age and acquiring youth. He hopes to 
center a lineup which now has six start
ers below age 28 around slugger Bobby 
Bonilla, who should be around to seethe 
end of the Mets rebuilding. Eventually 
Jeromy Bumitz, Ryan Thompson, Jeff 
Kent, David Segui, and Jose Vizcaino 
could becomes staples in a strong lineup, 
but for now struggles will abound.
The same goes for the pitching staff for 
Dwight Gooden is only remaining mem
ber of the 86 team. Bret Saberhagen 
and John Franco are the other bonafide 
pitchers on the staff, but it is only a 
matter of time before they are pushed 
aside or traded for prospects. The one 
bright spot for the Mets pitching is that 
youngster Bobby Jones looks to have the 
makeup of a 15-game winner in the 
majors.
Mcllvaine has his work cut out for 
him, but he has started in the right 
direction.
Philadelphia Phillies: The Phillies 
arenotateam ofthel990s. Instead they 
are a throwback from another era, here 
to remind us of how the game used to be 
and how it used to be played  hard, 
dirty, and gritty. General Manager Lee 
Thomas took the biggest gamble of his 
professional life last year, when instead 
of acquiring a David Cone or Barry Bonds 
to put them over the top, he acquired 
retreads Pete Incaviglia, Jim Eisenriech, 
Milt Thompson, Danny Jackson, and 
Larry Anderson. So what did he get for 
his risks  a team that upset the best' 
team in baseball in the playoffs and a 
World Series that went to six games.
Thomas has built a team that features 
the likes of Darren Daulton, John Kruk, 
Dave Hollins, Mariano Duncan, and the 
man who scored the most runs in the 
National League since 1932: Lenny 
Dykstra.
He also has a staff which has four 
starters who won 12 games or more last 
year, in Curt Shilling, Tommy Greene, 
Ben Rivera, and Danny Jackson.
This team will contend and has a defi
nite shot at clinching the wild card berth. 
The questions remain, though: can Kruk 
come back from cancer, is Kevin Stocker 
the real thing, and can Incaviglia, 
Eisenriech, and Dykstra match last 
years numbers. If so, then heart andgrit will again push the Phils into a 
position to upset some of the more tal
ented teams. And this time around, 
Philly fans will have a little easier time 
breathing in the ninth innings.
Projected order of finish: 1) At
lanta Braves; 2) Philadelphia Phillies; 
3) Montreal Expos; 4) New York Mets;; 
5) Florida Marlins
Anuj Gupta, Tartan assistant Sports 
editor, is a sophomore chemical engi
neering major.
Razorbacks earn respect from Clinton, nation
raj
In Your Face
by Seth A. Covitz
I sure hope you didnt blink the 
weekend before last, because if 
you did, you might have missed 
one of the best Final Fours in 
recent memory. As a microcosm 
of a year which left no upset up
turned, all three of this years 
Final Four games witnessed the 
eventual victors fighting their 
way through multiple deficits. 
The four teams invited to this 
years Cha-Cha-Cha in Charlotte 
were Arizona, Arkansas, Duke, 
and Florida. The Queen City not 
only rolled out the red carpet but 
converted part of downtown into 
an outdoor party fully stocked 
with pop-up pubs.
SPORTS IN SEASON
FACULTY/GRAD VBALL
Commissioner: Chris Paredis, 
X8-7121
Matches continue to be played 
on Sundays in the main gym. 
WATER BASKETBALL
Commissioner: Dave Ekem, x2- 
3922
Matches began April 5. Sched
ules can be picked up in the IM 
Office.
CALL POOL
Commissioner: Dave Ekem, x2- 
3922
Schedules are available and can 
be picked up in the IM Office. 
TABLE TENNIS 
Commissioner: Dave Ekem, x2-
3922
Schedules are available andean 
be picked up in the IM Office. 
3-ON-3 BASKETBALL 
Commissioner: Pat Leach, x2-
2538
I won the majors champion
ship, while Air SAE won the in
termediate title.
FOUL SHOOTING 
Commissioner: Dave Ekem, x2-
Although I was in Charlotte 
traceduririg the break, I did not 
get invited to Big Dance. So for 
those of you who also didnt get 
invited, let me set the stage. First 
there were the Arizona Wildcats. 
This team beat two years of chok
ing in the first round, to take 
Lute Olsens squad farther than 
any other western team, to the 
Final Four. They were led by the 
media-decreed best backcourt in 
the nation, Damon Stoudamire 
and Khalid Reeves, who combine 
to score more than 70 percent of 
the teams points. But we know 
that to win a national champion
ship takes depth, talent, and most 
of all consistent, play. Two guys 
cant carry a team. The game plan 
for Arkansas was simple: expend 
three men on Stoudamire and 
Reeves, and wear down the rest 
of the team. After overcoming 
their early jitters, the Razorbacks 
held Arizonas dynamic duo to 
their lowest combined output of
IM News
3922
Beta B won the championship 
andBeta A was second. The high
est individual mark was 94 out of 
100 free throws made.
3-POINT SHOOT OUT 
Commissioner: Pat Leach, x2- 
2538
Betas Goldi Patel was the 
champion.
INDOOR SOCCER 
Commissioners:
Majors: Dave Ekem, x2-3922; 
Intermediate: Pat Leach, x2- 
2538; Minors: Scott Powell, 422- 
1349; Women: Amy Watchom, 
X2-3104 
There are a record 60 teams 
competing in the indoor single
elimination tournament.
FENCING 
Commissioners: Pat Leach, x2- 
2538 and Thibaut Conti, x2-3350 
Practice will be held Tuesday 
and Thursday from 7-10:30 pm 
in Thistle Hall. Three weapons 
will be used in the tournament. 
All students, faculty, and staff 
are welcome to compete..
SWIMMING 
Commissioner: Amy Watchom,
the season.
Also invited to Charlotte were 
the Florida Gators. One thing is 
for certain, the Florida fans didnt 
quite get the idea of the whole 
thing. Used to slappin the ole 
pigskin round, Gator fans 
watched straight man Lon 
Krueger take the team to its first 
ever Final Four. Talk about be
ing excited: junior forward An
drew DeClerq made sure he 
screamed on every play. He once 
screamed because the ball went 
out of bounds. If I had been there 
for the game, Im sure I would 
have jumped on the court and 
force fed him some Valium. 
Florida was up by 13 when, for 
some reason that can only be 
chalked up to inexperience, they 
folded and let the Blue Devils do 
what they do best, steal the show.
So lets talk about those Blue 
Devils. How about four NCAA 
Finals in five years and seven of 
the last nine years in the Final
Four? Coach Mike Krzyzewski 
(Krooh-wi-shooh-ski-yes-I-am) 
has been compared time and time 
again to John Wooden, the great 
coach of the UCLA dynasty in the 
late 60s. My question: why 
shouldnt he be? Although the 
nation is tired of hearingit, Duke 
is the model program in college 
basketball, and regardless of the 
personnel, they find a way to win. 
I also agree with Krzyzewski 
when he said that any team that 
passes up Grant Hill in the NBA 
draft will truly regret it. Duke 
did what no one expected, espe
cially not neighbor and defend
ing national champion North 
Carolina, who missed the sweet 
16 for the first time in 16 years.
Finally, enter the 199394 Na
tional Champion Arkansas Ra
zorbacks. This team, the only 
number one seed to remain, and 
the team that spent the longest 
time as the nations number one 
team, was a team who possessed 
all of the previously mentioned 
traits: depth, talent, and consis
tent play. Forget the fact that the 
President was there and you 
werent. Forget the fact that 
Corliss Williamson shaved off his 
famous inverted part, and for
get the fact Arkansas shorts were 
twice as long as Michigans ever 
were. Nolan Richardson has the 
tools, the talent, the love, but 
most of all, hes got his R-E-S-PE-C-T. While watchingthe game, 
I noticed how he started a senior 
who has started only two games
in the last two years. I saw how 
he played the end of his bench 
first, and I saw him pull off the 
greatest victory of his career. Of 
course the game was tied with 
one minute 15 seconds remain
ing, until Scotty Thurman 
drained a rainbow with the shot1 
clock running out that won the 
game. But the key was that Duke 
was up by 10 just a few minutes 
earlier when they ran out of 
steam. Richardson expended his 
entire bench, and every single 
guy can say that his role helped 
propel the Razorbacks to the 
championship. Now that is what 
college basketball is all about.
Seth A. Covitz is a sophomore 
computer science major.
classified
JOBSJJOUSING
X2-3104 
The meet will be held April 7 at 
4:30 pm.
SOFTBALL
Commissioners:
Majors: Dave Ekem, x2-3922; 
Intermediate: Pat Leach, x2- 
2538; Minors: Jim Saxon, x2- 
3872; Women Only: Trish Will
iams, x2-2609 
The rales clinic was held April
5, and games have begun.
BUSINESS 
Dave Ekem, Trish Williams, 
Pat Leach, and Jim Saxon were 
nominated for the IM Person of 
the Year award. Keith Gorse re
ceived the Outstanding Service 
award. The banquet date was set 
for Tuesday, May 3. Officers for 
next year were nominated. Matt 
Wilhams and Jim Saxon were 
nominated for President; Amy 
Watchorn was nominated for 
Womens President. The next IM 
Board meeting will be held 
Wednesday, April 20, at noon in 
the IM Office.
Compiled by 
ERIC STRAUSS
Agents  No Experience. Company 
expanding  51218 hr. + bonuses. 
Send Sase for details to: Interna
tional, 1 375 Coney Island Ave., Ste 427 
Brooklyn, NY 11230.
COLLEGE ENTREPRENEURS  A
collegiate wholesaling company is 
piloting a new program at Carnegie 
Mellon. Students will have the opportu
nity to retail college products at 
wholesale prices including t-shirts, 
pillows, etc. For more info, please call 1- 
800-537-4355 ask for EFI program.
Greeks and Clubs: Earn $50 - $250 for 
yourself plus up to $500 for your clubl 
This fundraiser costs nothing and lasts 
one week. Call now and receive a free 
gift. 1 -800-932-0528 ext.65
Summer jobs in Lancaster, PA. Student 
painters has immediate openings for 
summer painters. Inside/outside house 
painting. Starting at $5.35/hr. plus 
bonuses. No experience necessary. To 
apply, call Cheston at 1-800-343-0303.
Free money for school... well almostl 
Scholarships Guaranteed  Risk Free. 
Appointments only: Battista's Educa
tional Endowment Fund Find (BEEFF) 
531-6862.
Summer sublet and fall rental. North 
Oakland furnished one bedroom and 
efficiency apartments. Close to campus. 
On campus shuttle bus route. Very clean 
and spotless. Spacious bookshelves. 
Roomy closets. Secure apartment 
buildings. From $230. Call 683-0776
Shadyside. Walnut. Negley. Spacious 
3rd. 2 bedrooms. Equipped kitchen. 
Carpeted. Private enterance. Graduate 
students. $650. Utilities included. 
Parking. Shuttle. 621-1670
TRAVEL
SPRING BREAK 1994 Cancn, Bahamas, 
Jamaica, Florida & Padre! 110% Lowest 
Price Guarantee! Organize 15 friends 
and your trip is free! TAKE A BREAK 
STUDENT TRAVEL (800) 328-7283
Classified Rates
1-20 words..........$5.00 / wk
21-50 words........$8.00 / wk
51-100 words....$10.00 / wkClassifieds must be paid in 
cash or by check before the 
first-scheduled run date.
On-campus departments 
and organizations may pay 
by journal transfer with a 
valid account number.
Due by 5 pm the Thursday 
before publication.
WANTED
Townsend Booksellers. We buy 
thousands of worthwhile books In all 
scholarly and technical subjects and the 
arts. Best prices paid or generous trade 
credit. Visit us for out-of-print, used, and 
rare books. Open daily: Monday - 
Saturday, 11am-6 pm, Sunday 1-5pm. 
Near campus at 4612 Henry St. (off S. 
Craig) 682-8030.
(BOURSE JNFO
ENGINEERING & ARCHITECTURAL 
STUDENTS: Enhance your skills and 
employment opportunities by learning 
computer-aided drafting & design 
(CADD) at Pittsburgh Technical Institute. 
Short-term (6 weeks) evening classes 
start monthly. For information contact 
Carmen Sporio at 232-3940.
1HL TARTAN' 
268 2111

---------------------------------------------------

nate Elections
Grading Referendum
Make Your Mark
Vote in the Spring 1994 Elections
Voting Booth just off the Carnival Midway 
Open Wednesday & Thursday April 13, 14: 10-7 PM 
Friday April 15: 2-7 PM
Senate Elections
ar-  * tr adyf oCnai n vv I nn *
<r*sM - . 4 Hi' ygfrgg ftji You can vote for the following open seats:
Senate Seats in every college 
Student Body President 
Student Body Treasurer
+/- Grading Referendum
1. No plus/minus grading.
2. Plus/minus grading for new students only: those students enrolled prior to May, 
1994 shall not receive plus/minus grades.
3. Plus/minus grading for all undergraduate students effective fall 1994 according to
the followingschedule:
A4.00c+2.30
A-3.70c2.00
B+3.30c-1.70
B3.00D+1.30
B-2.70D1.00
R0.00
Students will be able to vote for 1 of the three options.
The option which receives the most votes will be considered a binding recommenda
tion by Student Senate to the administration.

---------------------------------------------------

you dont need a passport to go att the zoay...
AROUND
theWORLD
Spring Carnival 1994
This is a paid advertisement.

---------------------------------------------------

SMM of Events
EventTime Place
Buggy Design Competition
Student Government Elections & Referendum
T-Shirt Design Competition
Opening Ceremonies: Bagpipers
Whiskey Tango, guitar and violin virtuosos
Kiltie Band
AB Movie: M
The Bloomfield 5, cool jazz music
Drama Dept.: "Saturday, Sunday, Monday"
Scotch 'N' Soda: "Nemeses"
David Kinne, rock and roll comedy with an edge
Ramelle MaCoy, hypnotist
The Broken, rock band
Ticket sales for rides end
Rides close
Midway closes
10am- 2pm
10am - 7pm
2:30pm - 3:30pm
4:30pm
5pm - 6 pm
5:30pm - 6:30pm
6pm, 8pm, 10pm, 12am
7pm - 8pm
8pm
8pm
8pm - 9pm 
9pm - 10pm 
9pm - 12am 
11:15pm 
11:45pm 
12am
Gym
The Cut next to Midway 
Skibo Wherrett Room 
Corner Stage 
Comer Stage 
Tent
Doherty Hall 2210 
Comer Stage 
Kresge Theatre, CFA 
Skibo Ballroom 
Tent 
Tent
The Tilted Square, Skibo
Preliminary Sweepstakes Races
Alumni Tent
Midway opens
Alumni Open House
Color Photo Souvenir Buttons
Belly, alternative rock
Student Government Elections & Referendum
Classes of '93 and '89 Happy Hour
AB Movie: Wayne's World 2
Roger Gillen, acoustic folk-rock
Drama Dept.: "Saturday, Sunday, Monday"
Scotch 'N' Soda: "Nemeses"
Carlos Alazraqui, comedian 
House Jacks, a cappella in your face 
Ticket sales for rides end 
Rides close 
Midway closes
7am - 12pm 
8am - 11am 
11am
12pm-4pm 
lpm - 5pm 
lpm - 4:30pm 
2pm - 7pm 
4pm - 7pm
6pm, 8pm, 10pm, 12am
6pm - 7pm
8pm
8pm
8pm - 9pm 
9pm - 10:30pm 
10:15pm 
10:45pm 
11pm
Tech & Frew Streets 
Frew Street
5017 Forbes Avenue 
Midway
The Cut (Tent if rain) 
The Cut next to Midway 
Panther Hollow Inn 
Doherty Hall 2210 
Comer Stage 
Kresge Theatre, CFA 
Skibo Ballroom 
Tent 
Tent
Final Sweepstakes Races 
Alumni Tent 
Midway opens
Classes of '89 & '93 Reunion Picnic 
Strykers Posse, roots-rock reggae 
CMU Jazz Choir 
Varsity Club Reception 
Third Annual Residence Life Reunion 
Alumni Open House
Drama Dept.: "Saturday, Sunday, Monday"
Women's Lacrosse: CMU vs. Wheeling Jesuit
High Voltage, pure Pittsburgh hard rock
Frankenstein, infamous, funk, rock groove
ms.lum, intelligent, corky alternative
Distinguished Gentleman, R&B a cappella
AB Movie: Little Rascals
Midway closes
Closing Ceremonies
Ticket sales for rides end
Rides close
Drama Dept.: "Saturday, Sunday, Monday" 
Scotch 'N' Soda: "Nemeses"
Drew Carey, comedian
7am - 12pm 
8am - 11am 
11am 
11:30am 
12pm - lpm 
lpm - 2pm 
lpm - 3pm 
lpm - 3:30pm 
lpm - 5pm 
2pm 
2pm
2pm - 3pm 
3pm - 4pm 
4pm - 5pm 
5pm - 6pm
6pm, 8pm, 10pm, 12am
6:30pm
7pm
7:30pm
8pm
8pm
8pm
8pm - 9pm
Tech & Frew Streets 
Frew Street
CFA Lawn & The Mall 
Tent
Comer Stage 
5017 Forbes Avenue 
West Wing Rec. Room 
5017 Forbes Avenue 
Kresge Theatre, CFA 
Gesling Stadium 
Tent
Corner Stage 
Tent
Corner Stage 
Doherty Hall 2210
The Cut (Tent if rain)
Kresge Theatre, CFA 
Skibo Ballroom 
Tent
This is a paid advertisement.

---------------------------------------------------

sP\ Thursdau s Events
Opening Ceremonies
 Get a chance to see buggies 
up front and close during 
the Buggy Design Compe
tition from 10am to 2pm in 
the Gym.
 The T-Shirt Design Compe
tition demonstrates the best 
in creativity and Carnival 
sprit at 2:30pm in the Skibo 
Wherrett Room.
The 
Bloomfield 5
cool jazz music
Corner Stage, 7pm - 8pm
Many of you will recognize 
this group of cool jazz musi
cians from the days when they 
played Wednesday nights at
 Our Scottish tradition lives 
on as the CMU Bagpipers 
officially open the Midway 
at 4:30pm. Expect some 
surprise guests.
 Plaid is more than just a 
fashion statement for the 
Kiltie Band  it's a tradi
tion. Their spring concert 
begins at 5:30 in the Tent.
Scotland Yard. That was back in 
the days before Paul Allocca, P.J. 
Oh, and Paul Tompson gradu
ated and went off to bigger and 
better things. This fine group of 
CMU alumni joined current 
doctoral student Rich Strong 
and Duquesne graduate An
drew Consentino to become 
what they are today. Now they 
have been together for two 
years and can be found in clubs 
all over the Burgh!
Whiskey 
TANGO
guitar and 
violin virtuosos
Corner Stage, 5pm - 6pm
Considering the talent and 
credits this duo has, it's amaz
ing that they enjoy playing 
colleges.
Violinist Robert Spates 
generally performs at places 
like the Kennedy Center in 
Washington D.C., where he 
plays for the President and 
other world leaders, and all 
over Europe, including the 
Vatican City and the Montreux Festival in Switzerland. 
His style blends multicultural 
folk and classical music with 
'skull-crunching heavy me
tal' electric violin.
Guitarist Pete Fields spends 
a lot of his time in the studio as 
a Polygram recording artist, 
producer, and engineer. He also 
toured Europe and played a 
flawless Bach recital on the 
300th anniversary of Bach's 
birth. His style combines his 
classical mastery with rock,
metal, and jazz.
As you can imagine, when 
these two get together, it's 
pure magic. They'll play any
thing from classical to folk to 
the Doors. If you appreciate 
music in any form, don't miss 
either of the two perfor
mances Whiskey TANGO 
will be giving.
The Broken
CMU rock band
The Tilted Square, 9pm- 12am
Drawing from a wide range of 
influences, The Broken fuses folk, 
rock, reggae and blues into a swirl
ing melting pot of songs guaran
teed to move both body and soul. 
Lyrics vary from life, relationships, 
and adventure to such dark topics 
as suicide and child abuse always 
resolving in either frantic pulse or 
soothing rhythms.
The Broken instantly sets itself 
apart with a sonic character all its
Ramelle MaCoy
hypnotist
Carnival Tent, 9pm - 10pm
Ramelle MaCoy's show is not 
only fun, but also educational. 
Throughout his years as a hyp
notist, Ramelle has striven not 
only to entertain his audiences by 
making people do funny things, 
but he also gets across a clear un
derstanding of what hypnosis is 
and is not, and how it can be help
ful to many people. Although he 
has been an accomplished hyp
notist for years, it is not his occu
pation. He is a former foreign cor
respondent for Time and Life 
magazines and teaches industrial 
and labor relations at Indiana 
University of Pennsylvania.
Carnival Committee Focus
Operations Chair Aymerik 
Renard ensures that the 
operatonal aspects of Carnival 
go smoothly.
Asst. Chair Sharyn Rotunno and 
Chair Moneet Singh are re
sponsible for seeing that Spring 
Carnival happens smoothly 
and that the purposes of each 
committee are met. Sharyn also 
keeps Moneet from panicking.
Rides Chair Stephen Savulak 
and Assistant Rides Chair 
Nathan Houser armge for an 
amusement company to oper
ate during Carnival, accom
modate the rides company, 
advertise rides ticket sales, and 
hire ticket sellers to sell tickets 
from booths. Steve also enjoys 
watching the rides truck try to 
enter the Skibo parking lot.
Guitarists 5haun McDermott and Ian Davis, pianist Justin Boyan, bassist Andrew Stellman, 
vocalist Sandy OToole, and per-cussionist Roger Hsiao are all affiliated with CMU.
own. Tight, turf-pounding beats 
provide the palette through which 
sounds of cool organ and tickled 
ivories flow. Their vocals complete
the tapestry, weaving powerful 
lyrics, eerie harmonies, and occa
sionally startling subject matter 
throughout each song.
rock and roll comedy
Carnival Tent, 8pm - 9pm
Who: David Kinne, ex Ph.D. biology student
turned comic.
What: Rock and roll comedy with an edge.
Why: Because he's been on Showtime and
Comedy Central, along with appearing in 
concert with REM, the Indigo Girls, and 
Bonnie Raitt. Also, he has a comedy album 
featuring the song, "I Don't Love You 
Since You Ate My Dog."
David Kinne
This is a paid advertisement.

---------------------------------------------------

The Committee Paae
A letter to the Carnival Committee
Dear Spring Carnival Committee:
I'd like to take the chance to 
thank you guys for all of your 
hard work this year, since I can't 
do it during Carnival. We're 
probably the most under appre
ciated, unrecognized organiza
tion on campus. All of you were 
amazing from start to finish.
Moneet  Don't panic, ev
erything will run smoothly. 
You've done a remarkable job.
Operations  Don't let 
Moneet do anything stupid! 
Remind him of Rule #1.
Entertainment  The in
creased budget undoubtedly al
lowed you to book better acts!
Midway  Your efforts at 
controlling the booth chairs are 
to be commended.
Power  Can we schedule 
meetings at some other time 
than 8:30 am? And Suri, don't 
wreck the red machine this
week!
Publicity  I know you 
don't have it easy with me on 
your back all the time. Your 
hard work is appreciated!
Rides  It won't rain and the 
insurance papers will arrive!
Security  The scheduling 
was fun; NO problem!
Tech  Don't blow anything 
up, and don't hang ANYONE 
up!
Bonnie  Thanks for every
thing you do every day. We 
don't appreciate your efforts
enough. We all came together 
to make an awesome team this 
year.
I'll miss you guys this week. 
This Carnival would never 
have happened without all of 
your cooperation and hard 
work. You guys are awesome, 
and remember: Carnival
doesn't just happen! We make 
it happen!!!
Sharyn Rotunno
Asst. Chair, Spring Carnival
From left to right. 
Chair Moneet 
Singh, Carnival 
Advisor Bonnie 
Gorman, and 
Assistant Chair 
Sharyn Rotunno.
"The Grilled 
Chicken will 
be a few 
minutes."
The 1994 Spring 
Carnival Committee
hardest working student organization
Thursday, Friday, and Saturday: everywhere
Top row (from left to right): Sharyn Rotunno, asst. Carnival chair; 
Colleen Kane, security; Peter Wieland and Howard Meisner, Tech; 
Jill Goodall, entertainment; Mindy Drake, SDC; Frank Michels, 
publicity. Standing: Bonnie Gorman, advisor; Daniel Lim, asst power; 
Aymerik Renard, operations; Moneet Singh, Carnival chair; Sushen 
Gupta, asst, security. Kneeling: Stephen Savulak, rides; Siddharth 
Suri, power; Nathan Houser, asst, rides; Drew Ross, AB concerts. 
Not pictured: Darlene Yun, Midway; Amy Nodes, asst, publicity.
take Kaplan and get 
a higher score...
GRE
More students take Kaplan's courses every 
year than any other test prep company's. 
Call us today to find out why.
661-2772
KAPLAN
The answer to the test question
eALM0P T I C A L
THE CLEAR CHOICE
SAVE 20%
A NEW eISuOUNT FOR 
uMU STUeENTS. FAuULTY & STAFF
THE 23-uHEuKIOINT EYE EXAM: 1
OUR uOMIUTERIZEe EYE EX!lM IROVIeES A eETAILEe 
OITOMETRIu IROFILE. THE RESULT...uONFIeENuE IN VISION FOR YOU.
THE NEW VISION - 
IN FRAMES ANe uONTAuTS:
SELEuTION. IT'S THE FIRST THING THAT MEETS THE EYE AT EVERY 
eALMO OITIuAL uENTER. FROM BOLe uOLORS ANe SOIHISTIuATEe 
IROFILES IN FRAMES TO EXTENeEe WEAR GAS IERMEABLE ANe 
eISIOSABLE uONTAuTS. eALMO HAS IT ALL!
eR. R.T. GREENBERG. OITOMETRIST
58Z4 FORBES !wVENUE 
SQUIRREL HILL 
IHONE 5Z1-Z100
This is a paid advertisement.

---------------------------------------------------

Ja Frdau s Events
Roger Gillen
acoustic folk-rock
Comer Stage, 6pm - 7pm
Named one of 
1991's "Rookies 
of the Year" by 
Rolling Stone 
magazine, Roger 
Gillen is one of 
the most excep
tional talents to 
come out of Ire
land since U2.
Since then, Rog
er's been gracing 
college cam
puses across the 
country with his 
beautiful voice 
and thought- RogerGil|en 
provoking lyrics.
He was featured on recently, he showcased for 
'BMI Live,' a nationally the National Association of 
televised program for Campus Activities at their 
new music artists. Most national convention.
Belly
alternative rock band
The House 
Jacks
a cappella
Carnival Tent, 9pm - 10:30pm
Recent winners of the Harmony 
pweepstakes, the House Jacks have 
thrilled audiences in California and 
are now in the process of amazing col
lege audiences throughout the coun
try. , i
The House Jacks have made ap
pearances with The Temptations, 
James Brown, Paula Poundstone, and 
Jon Secada.
Their covers include "Kashmir" by 
Led Zepplin, "Need You Tonight" by 
INXS, "Loves Me Like a Rock" by Paul 
Simon, and "Saturday Night's 
Alright" by Elton John.
If you think that a cappella means 
doo-wap or barbershop, come see 
what 'a capella with a vengence' 
sounds like.Oh, and their precision 
harmonies don't hurt either.
Carnival Stage, 1 pm - 4:30pm
Circular Carnival Caboodle
Carnival Committee Focus
Power and Safety Asst. Chair Daniel 
Lim and Chair Siddharth Suri are 
responsible for coordinating all as
pects of electrical power to the Car
nival Tent and the Midway. They 
work with Physical Plant to ensure 
that booths and events have power 
and meet safety standards. Suri also 
likes to ride (and crash) Physical 
Plant's red buggy.
AB Tech Chairs Peter Wieland and 
Howard Meisner are responsible 
for organizing the techical details of* 
Spring Carnival, including sound 
reinforcement and lighting. They 
also order the Carnival Tent and 
necessary florring, tables, and 
chairs. AB Tech works with Power 
and Safety to assure that the neces
sary power is supplied.
Carlos 
Alazraqui
comedian
Carnival Tent, 8pm - 9pm
Belly lead singer Tanya Donelly (front) joined her childhood 
friends Chris and Tom Gorman in her hometown of Newport, 
Rhode Island. Donelly was a guitarist and vocalist for The 
Throwing Muses for six years and released five albums, after 
which see performed with The Breeders for two years.
Before opening for Pearl Jam this summer, the 
alternative rock band Belly will provide the best 
in progressive rock and roll as Spring Carnival's 
main event.
Belly is a new band, founded and fronted by 
former Throwing Muses guitarist Tanya Donelly 
and fashioned expressly for the purpose of giving 
this multi-faceted young artist a creative platform 
for her singular singing and songwriting skills.
The group's debut album, Star, features Belly's 
debut single and video, "Feed the Tree." The fif
teen songs on the album are described as twisted 
fairy tales, with inspiration drawn from dreams. 
As for the group's name, Donelly says it's her fa
vorite word. "It's soft, warm, and female, but at 
the same time it's kind of visceral, like the music."
Pop band The Greenberry Woods will open for 
Belly, playing songs from their debut album, Rapple 
Dapple.
Just like Garth Algar in the 
movie Wayne's 'World 2, 
showing Friday in DH 
2210, you too can get a 
souvenir button, ex
cept your picture will 
be in full color! Color 
photo souvenir buttons 
will be made on the Mid
way from lpm to 5pm.
Now imagine a gigantic 
button that spins around 
on a pivot, with you 
stuck to it! AB Special 
Events presents the 
Human Gyro on the 
Cut near the Midway 
throughout Spring 
Carnival. Stop by and 
give it a whirl!
Born of Argentinian descent, Carlos 
Alazraqui has been making comedy au
diences laugh for the past six years. His 
high energy act is comprised of vocal 
and physical characterizations from 
Rainman to Columbo to a Scottish Devil 
to a sorority girl and hundreds more!
With his boyish charm and likeability, 
Carlos delicately intertwines these char
acters in situations, making for a unique 
and cleverly witty performance.
TV credits include MTV's "Half Hour 
Comedy Hour," "Comedy on the Road," 
and "Comedy Compadres." In addition, 
Carlos is featured weekly on NickelCarlos Alazraqui
odeon as the many voices of "Rocko's 
Modern Life." Carlos was recently cho
sen as the winner of the 1993 San Fran
cisco International Comedy Competi
tion.
This is a paid advertisement.

---------------------------------------------------

There are 
many reasons 
banks are in 
business.
We have only one.
Everything you need to close down a crackhouse.
You aren't, helpless when crime 
invades your neighborhood. You're 
fully capable of helping police and 
theyre ready to show you how.
Tdr u.nr o! Tdr Sm.amoa I.xy 
Sm.af-o!!.
When crack moved into a row 
house on a quiet block of Stan ton 
Park in Washington. D.C., folks 
decided to serve an eviction 
notice.
They met with police to find 
out what they could do to 
keep drugs out of their 
neighborhood
The cops told them to 
keep an eye outto let 
police know whenever 
something suspicious 
happened. They began to 
notice faces 
They wrote
TAKE A BITE OUT OF!REaE
down license numbers of strange cars. 
They noted the times of odd behavior.
They worked with each other. They 
worked with the police. Armed with 
field glasses, note pads and telephones, 
folks kept track of the neighborhood.
Within one month, enough 
evidence had been gathered. 
Police moved in. Crack 
moved out.
Citizen participation beat 
crime in D.C. It can do the 
same for you. For more 
success stories, write Tdr 
Mr Gxu!! Flwrn, 1 Ixrvra
mwoa W.s, W.ndwagmoa, e.u. 
20539-0001.
Police become even more 
responsive when their 
people are their partners.
Together we 
can help...
Mon. and Tue. - 10-7 
Wed. - 4-8 
Thr. & Fri. - 10-8 
Sat. - 10-7 
Sun. 10-5
9HANT0M 
OF TH
214 S. Craig St. 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
(412) 621-1210
BRING IN THIS 
AD FOR A 
10% DISCOUNT
NEW COMICS 
OLD COMICS 
GAMES 
NON-SPORTS 
CARDS
FRIENDLY & INFORMATIVE STAFF 
SUBSCRIPTION SERVICE AVAILABLE
YouBanking For The Righi Reasons''
We understand that you work hard for your money. At Parkvale,
 were here to listen and learn so we can help you reach your goals.
Personal Loans, Auto 
Loans, 24-hour Banking
CM1940 Murray Ave 
, Squirrel Hill-521-4800
6Zimr
jot, 5-
This is a paid advertisement.
Book by Robert Igo 
Music & Lyrics by Jeff C. Kunins 
Directed by Matt Morrow
Thursday, April 14 
Friday, April 15 
Saturday, April 16 
Sunday, April 17
8pm
Skibo Ballroom
$5 non-students 
$4 w/ student ID
from what is a part of you...

---------------------------------------------------

Ja Sgjwdgii s Events
CeremoniousSaturday
 The CMU Jazz Choir will 
perform from 1pm to 2pm 
on the Comer Stage.
 Student and alumni ath
letes are invited to the Var
sity Club Reception at the 
Alumni House at 1pm.
 Anybody who has worked 
for Housing is invited to 
their third annual reunion 
in the West Wing Rec. 
Room at 3pm.
 The awards for booth and 
buggy winners will be an
nounced at the exciting 
Closing Ceremonies, at 
7pm on the Carnival Stage.
 Don't miss Drew Carey!
10.
9.
8.
7.
6.
5.
4.
3.
2.
1.
Drew Carey
comedian
Carnival Tent, 8pm - 9pm
Top Ten Reasons to come see 
comedian Drew Carey on Saturday night
He's great on the NBC sitcom 'The Good Life' 
He's just a big, cool nerd 
Too many television appearances to list 
He's quite the ladies' man 
You could use more comedy in your life 
He'll be funnier than Belly 
Reason, you don't need no stinkin' reason 
Did I mention he's on a television show?
It's Spring Carnival  be young, have fun 
They'll still be plenty of time to drink after his show.
Strykers Posse
roots rock reggae band
Carnival Tent, 12pm - 1pm
Start Saturday morning off right with 
the cool, smooth, reggae sounds of 
Baltimore's own Strykers Posse. The 
Posse, consisting of three sisters and five 
brethren who have come together from 
as far as Jamaica and as close as Penn
sylvania, will be spreading the musical 
message of 'Jah Rastafari.'
Strykers Posse. Led by Ichelle Cole, this energetic, irresistible 
group will get you jammin' to the reggae beat.
Frankenstein
funk, rock groove
Comer Stage, 3pm - 4pm
Originating in the base
ments of Beeler Street, Fran
kenstein excels at the ancient 
rock tradition of jamming. It 
all began years ago when 
some very exciting practice 
sessions left Bob Altman, Matt 
Campbell, and Gabe Kuo con
scious of a bond between them 
that would lead to musical 
heights. With roots in funk, 
jazz, rock, and classical, their 
band, The White Cheddar 
Trio, began entertaining the 
CMU underground with mu
sic that was dynamic, rhyth
mic, and bluesy. Fortunately, 
the trio added the fiery magic 
of Clarence, the king of white 
funk! Like Frankenstein's 
monster, they found that they 
could no longer fit in the cul
ture that spawned them....
High Voltage
Pittsburgh hard rock
Carnival Tent, 2pm - 3pm
Rock n' roll loud and hard, just the 
way it should be. That is Pittsburgh's 
own High Voltage. Packed with a killer 
arsenal of originals, along with covers of 
Alice In Chains, Pearl Jam, and Stone 
Temple Pilots, these guys will be pure 
electricity. If you're in the mood to bang 
your head or just want to sample some 
of Pittsburgh's other music, then this is 
the show you'll want to see.
Distinguished
Gentlemen
R&B a cappeila
Corner Stage, 5pm - 6pm
These five young guys will blow you 
away with their smooth a cappeila har
monies. You'll hear everything from bar
bershop to Billy Joel to Huey Lewis and 
the News. So stop by the Corner Stage 
and let the 'Gentlemen' soothe your soul.
ms.lum
intelligent, corky alternative band
Carnival Tent, 4pm - 5pm
For a band in which all of its members graduated 
from the College of Fine Arts, but not as music ma
jors, ms.lum blends a wide range of musical influ
ences into their own style for a unique combination 
of songs from their debut album, Airport Love Song.
Carnival Committee Focus
AB Concerts Cliaxr Drew Ross, Carnival 
Entertainment Chair Jill Goodall, and 
SDC Tent Chair Mindy Drake.
The Entertainment 
Committee is 
responsible for 
booking all hired 
and free entertain
ment for Spring 
Carnival. Carni
val, AB, and SDC 
work together to 
provide events for 
the Tent, the Cor
ner Stage, and 
Midway.
Assistant Security Chair Sushen Gupta 
and Carnival Security Chair Colleen 
Kane.
The Security Com
mittee coordi
nates security 
monitors and 
watch sliifts. They 
also maintain se
curity radios. 
CMU Security 
and the Midway 
Chair works with 
them to promote a 
safe Spring Carni
val.
This is a paid advertisement.

---------------------------------------------------

^/i*
Dossier Deadline
AprM flpfc
Submissions fop the SeniorIssue ol the Dossier are dueApril 14th. Material may bedropped oft at the Tartan Office, Skibo Room 50. Call Ryan,Aimee, or Gerry at 8x2111 with questions.
HILLEL
It's More Than What 
You Think.
Questions, Comments? 
It's Your Move:
621-8875 or E-mail / HC89 
Foundation of the campus Jewish community
Award Winning Best tali 
invites you to relax a
A touch erf Italy in
. orr cal yuRadef u
Tartn Sfwwir ef
 CHOICE OF APPETIZER, SALS
i , . , v_, , i s~   - _ < * '^ r -i .-x p ?y- -T' r v _r
iatto M
in Restaurant A 
id enjoy... K
Shadyside 
>*
KANZO
1ECIALS T , M  , a m 3Lunch: Monday - Saturday 11:30 am - 3 pm 
D, AND ENTREE Dinner: Monday - Saturday starting at 4:30 pm
Sunday Dinner Hours 3 pm - 9 pm
Conviently located adjacent to the new parking garage.
621-554?
ndo .fCCfFm31f 71eff1 w 7iscyvAcf
This is a paid advertisement.

---------------------------------------------------

:\ Other Carnival Events
Scotch N Soda's
i\EM^8^8
You cannot ran from what is a part of you...
Nemeses is the story of conquering inner demons. The 
village of Daulglenn falls under attack by Teiivio, an evil 
demon trappedmany years ago. Barnan, an old mage, 
summons a defender, Dean, a defense lawyer from our 
world. Dean is trained by a warrior named Kara, who, 
together with Palladin Feruq, join forces against Teiivio.
This mythological battle is the climax of Scotch 'N' 
Soda's spring musical. Scotch 'N' Soda is CMU's wholly 
student-run drama club, performing plays and musicals 
written and composed by CMU students. Tickets are $5, 
or $4 with a CMU ID, and shows are Thursday through 
Sunday at 8pm. All tickets are general admission.
Monday
Presented by the 
CMU Drama Department
Saturday, Sunday, Monday is a hilariously funny, rich, 
and nutty comedy about a typical Italian family with 
characteristic displays of Mediterranean temper and af
fection. A monumental family row begins to brew on 
Saturday night while the Sunday ragu is being prepared 
in the kitchen. It comes to a head on Sunday, the tradi
tional day for family quarrels, to be finally and touch
ingly resolved on Monday. The play was written by 
Eduardo de Filippo, who is best known for his film Mar
riage Italian Style starring Marcello Mastroianni and 
Sophia Loren. The director is Gregory Lehane.
Showtimes are Thursday at 8pm, Friday at 8pm, and 
Saturday at 2pm and 8pm. Tickets are $10 each for visi
tors and $5 each for CMU students and senior citizens.
AB Movies in Doherty Hall 2210
M
Thursday: 6, 8, 10pm, 12am
The fascinating story of a 
child-killer hunted in the 
streets of Berlin, this cinematic 
masterpiece features the tal
ents of Gustav Grundgens and 
Peter Lorre. Filmed in the 
1930's, this early film is in Ger
man with English subtitles.
Wayne's World 2
Friday: 6, 8, 10pm, 12am
Wayne (Mike Myers) and 
Garth (Dana Carvey) return in 
this cinematic masterpiece to 
organize the mega-concert, 
Waynestock, and hang 
around with Kim Basinger 
and Olivia D'Abo. YJayne's 
World 2 is stupid ... NOT!
Little Rascals
Saturday: 6, 8, 10pm, 12am
Spanky and the gang star 
in the modern masterpiece 
that launched their short ca
reers. The movie is full of the 
wit and whimsy of the depres
sion featuring the unforget
table characters of Buckwheat 
and Alfalfa.
Scott Fertig & Chas
charicature artists
on Midway
Throughout the duration of 
Spring Carnival, not one but two 
talented artists will draw your 
charicature for free on the Midway. 
Scott Fertig returns for another 
CMU Spring Carnival, and SDC 
welcomes Chas to his first visit to 
CMU.
Carnival Committee Focus
Publicity Chair Frank Michels and 
his assistant Amy Nodes makes Tshirts, jackets, posters, schedules, 
advertisements, and free give
aways to publicize Spring Carnival. 
They also notify campus and local 
news agencies of Carnival's events.
Midway Chair Dar
lene Yun manages 
the Midway by 
working with all 
organizational 
booth chairs and 
running judging.
The 1994 Spring Carnival 
Entertainment Supplement
Editor: Frank Michels
Writers: Mindy Drake, Jill Goodall
Contributors: Bonnie Gorman, Drew Ross,
Sharyn Rotunno, Moneet Singh
Stop by the Spring Carnival Information Table
<99e@o
Spring Carnival 1994
Spring Carnival T-ShirtsJust $6
Stop by the Spring 
Carnival Info Table to get 
your free 22 oz. stadium 
cup and personal pocketsize schedule today!
Also, the official Spring 
Carnival T-shirts will be on 
sale. Featuring the Spring 
Carnival emblem on the 
front and the official 
theme and logo on back, 
this shirt is yours for just 
$6. You wouldn't find a 
cheaper shirt anywhere!
Tdr m.-lr wn loi.mrf wa 
!xoam o! eodrxms H.ll !xom 
9:30.m mo 3:30om uamwl 
Tduxnf.s, mdra oa mdr 
Mwfw.s -s mdr fxwvrw.s 
fuxwag Mwfw.s douxn 
mdxougdoum Soxwag u.x
awv.l. Smoo -s!
This is a paid advertisement.

---------------------------------------------------

mm
3911 FORBES AVENUE 
PITTSBURGH, PA 15213
621-4100
Casual Dining in the heart of Oakland
featuring pastas and entrees, salads and sandwiches, and the 
area's largest selection of beers on tap
The Midway closes but the games can continue at Hemingway's
"LINK UP LIVE AND PLAY THE WORLD" 
With NTN INTERACTIVE TELEVISION TRIVIA 
every day
ITS NOT TOO LATE!
You can still order your copy of
The
1994 THISTLE 
Yearbook
for only $25.00!
A colorful reminder of 
Spring Carnival and the rest of 1994
Call x8-2121
or stop by Skibo 46a
Alpha Epsilon Pi Fraternity 
Congratulates its New Brothers
Jeffrey Amowitz 
Jeffrey Byrne 
Daniel Goldstein 
Charles Peters, III 
David Schonbrun 
Evan Shechter 
Douglas Wiegley
Tdr Tdwnmlr Yr.x-ooy j Fuafrf wa-s soux S.ufi
' CAl*o .Traveling?
? The LOWEST Student & Youth & 
Faculty Airfares
? The LOWEST Airfares within the U.S.
? Travel Insurance
? Volunteer Service
? International Student & Teacher Si 
Youth Identity Card
? Youth Hostel Memberships
? Budget Accomodation
? Car Rental
? Eurail & Bitrail Passes issued on the 
spot!
? Student/Youth Adventure Tours
? Work Abroad Programs
? Study Abroad Programs
? Language Courses overseas
? Travel Gear & Books
118 Meyran Ave., OAKLAND
683-1881Free "Student Travels" Magazine
This is a paid advertisement.

---------------------------------------------------

Midipaii Map
ORG.THEME
7K Beer Wurld
3KSAKorea
4Hockey ClubHockey Night in Canada
5XAEGilligan's Island
6ROTCHot Spots Around the World
nINThe Seven Seas
8Swim TeamThe Atlantic Ocean
9riKAParis
10ASAGateway to the Eastern Skies
11BnThe Eiffel Tower
12nA<&PiLam's Olde West
13KGBMIR
14ATAAtlantis
15SDCCities Around the World
lbStudent Alumni Relations Council
17<&KNorway
ISPioneersRadio City Music Hall
19KA0Japan
20SpiritThe Caribbean
21nrRural America
22ArThe Great Barrier Reef
23FringeAmelia Earhart
25AXPittsburgh
26CIASwitzerland
27AYLand of the Lost
28AAALego Land
29KAPThe Forbidden City
30KKTHershey, Pennsylvania
31SPuerto Rico
32AEflAlcatraz
Also Available:
A<>2 Concession Stand 
CMU-EMS First Aid Station 
Spring Carnival Information
Recycling Stations (marked with a ???)
Rides!
throughout Carnival, next to the Midway
Bumper Cars Pirate Ship
Ferris Wheel Sizzler
Gravitron Sky Diver
The Spring Carnival Committee would like to 
thank the staffs of AB Tech, Campus Police, Physi
cal Plant, Student Activities, and The Tartan. Your 
help is greatly appreciated and will be remembered.
Spring Carnival is funded in part by the CMU Stu
dent Activities Fee and the Student Dormitory Fee.
"When I was a first year student, 
I thought Carnival just sort of 
happened. Five Carnivals later, 
I realize that there's no way 
something like this can "just 
happen" without the hard work
the Carnival Committee puts in. 
1 hope everyone will enjoy this 
Carnival as much as I know I 
will."
 Moneet Singh, 
Spring Carnival Chair
Concession
Stand
Spring
Carnival
TO RIDES
17
QK0l
12
II AO
Hockey 
Club I
ROTO
Swim
Team
TO TENT 
AND STAGE
WRCT Truck
TO SKIBO
This is a paid advertisement.

---------------------------------------------------

Cognitive Science Major  Student Government Treasurer  Former Student Senator  Tartan Senior Staffwriter
Declan McCullagh
For Student Government President
Right now, sLudenLgovernment doesnt do 
much for students. For the last few years, its 
primaryr function seems to be to provide 
amusing headlines: Senate vs. ROTC, Senate 
vs. CSO, Senate vs. IFCF
Student government doesn l. have to be like 
this. I transferred to CMU from Rutgers 
University\ where student government does 
positive things for students on campus. They 
have if us power because students are more 
active and less apathetic. And then the 
administration listens.
IVe have to do the same thing here. 
Students have to gel involved. Ive been 
active in student government for a year as 
a student senator and student government 
treasurer, and Ive realized what problems 
we have. Ive written news articles for The 
Tartan for two years, and Ive heard from 
administrators how little attention they pay 
to student government.
Vm running for student government 
president because I believe that students can 
work with the administration to make a 
difference. / know the way the university 
works, and with your help, things 
can change. I would be honored if you 
would vole for me in this weeks elections.
Improving Shuttle and Escort
The university runs one shuttle to Shadysidc 
from 7:15 am to 10:30 pm and doesnt 
provide one to Squirrel Hill. By comparison, 
the University of Pittsburgh runs 11 shuttles, 
including four large buses that go to 
Shadyside and Squirrel Mill from 7 am until 1 
am.
Worse yet, even though the shuttle and 
escort vehicles need frequent repairs and 
maintenance, the university often fails to 
fix them. They didnt buy snow tires for the 
shuttle this winter, which created delays and 
needlessly endangered everyone who used it. 
The administration also shut down shuttle
and escort services a few times this school 
year even though they expected students 
living in off-campus housing, including 
university housing, to attend classes.
Working with the university to improve 
current shuttle service and to establish a 
shuttle route to Squirrel Mill will be my 
top.priority.
Relocating the Yard and Entropy
Scotland Yard and Entropy will disappear 
with Skibo. Theres no room for them in the 
Naval Reserve Building, and there may nol 
be.room for Entropy iri Building F.
The Yard and Entropy are a necessary pari 
of campus, and we need to have them around 
in the two or three years before the University 
Center is completed. Ive been working with 
the Planning and Budget Office to try to find 
space for them.
Reforming the 
Disciplinary Process
The current disciplinary process has 
problems. We need to do two things to change 
it: publish summary statistics at the end of 
the year and reform the process so it cant be 
easily abused.
The university doesnt release any 
information about cases that are handled 
internally, which is a practice that conceals 
many serious crimes that happen on campus. 
Ive sat on disciplinary committees and 1 
understand the need for confidentiality. But as 
a member of I he university community, 1 
recognize that students have a right to know 
what kind of crimes happen on campus. In 
order to protect the privacy of individuals, the 
university should wait until the end of the 
year and then release information listing "what 
types of crimes occurred during that time.
Also, the disciplinary process should nol be 
used for personal gain. To prevent this from 
happening, there must be rules protecting the 
confidentiality of individual hearings.
There is currently no way for student input
to affect the disciplinary process. 1 will create 
a commillee made up of students, faculty, and 
staff and charge it with recommending 
improvements to President Robert Mehrabian.
Reducing Parking Costs
Students pay as much for parking as faculty  
and staff do. Parking Services should offer 
cheaper student permits for larger lots such as 
Morewood and the parking garage.
The Graduate Student Organization is 
already working with the university to create 
a tiered pricing structure that will link 
parking permit cost to ability to pay. I support 
their efforts anti will work with them to" 
achieve this.
Improving Communication
Students can work with the administration, 
but in order for it to happen, we need to 
improve communication. If administrators 
dont talk to students, they sometimes make 
decisions that are against our best interests.
This happened last semester when the 
library administrators decided to close the 
library early without asking students what 
they thought of the idea. It took student 
protests, which 1 helped organize, and articles 
in the local press before the administration 
changed its mind. By working with the 
administration more closely, we can avoid 
these types of misunderstandings in the future.
To this end, earlier this month I approached 
President Mehrabian and requested that he 
hold regular office hours so students can 
approach him with problems, complaints, and 
suggestions. This is what former President 
Richard Cyert used to do, and it helped 
improve communication between students and 
the university.
We also need to improve communication 
between graduate and undergraduate students. 
To help bridge the growing gap between the 
two groups Ill attend all CSO meetings and 
make sure graduate students are represented 
on the committees 1 create.
Emma Gosden
For Student Government Treasurer
I would be honored if you would write me in for the office of Student Government 
Treasurer. Next year, 1 will be a Fifth Year Scholar in the College of Industrial 
Management. If elected, I would implement a financial system that not only assists 
funded organizations with budgeting, but also more closely tracks the expenditures 
covered by your activities fee. I would be grateful to have the opportunity to serve the 
campus community.
REMEMBER TO VOTE
Vote for your Student Government 
representatives and on the +/- 
grading referendum at the polls near 
Spring Carnival, just off the Skibo 
parking lot.
Wednesday, April 14, 10 am - 7 pm 
Thursday, April 15, 10 am - 7 pm 
Friday, April 16,2 pm - 7 pm
This is a paid advertisement.

---------------------------------------------------

 TT TT% T u'NnanimramEMinra
Volume dd, rooni mmThi T.xt.-, !.x-iyui aiIIf- w-uvixouty, Puttobnxyh, Pi--oyIv.-u.11 ApxuI 1994
AROUNe THE WORLe IN 3 eAYS
Spring Carnival entertainment promises something for all
By BETHANY SUTTON
Tartan Staffwriter
In just a few short days, 
Carnegie Mellon University will 
once again be transformed from a 
(ompetitive, high pressure insti
tution of higher learning to a wild 
ee-for-all of food, music, rides, 
pecial presentations, and, of 
course, booth and buggy  and 
iot a moment too soon. With one 
)f the harshest winters in years 
finally over, the campus has be
gun to come out of its hiberna
tion: volleyball nets and sunbathers have begun to spring up across 
the Cut, and baseballs and 
Frisbees have been spotted all 
over campus.
Carnival festivities will be 
kicked off at 4:30 pm on Thurs
day afternoon with traditional 
Scottish bagpipe music in honor 
of CMUs founder, Andrew 
Carnegie. This years theme is 
Around the World, which has pro
voked a wide range of booth
themes from both student and 
Greek organizations. From the 
traditional settings of PiKAs 
Paris, Thetas Japan, and 
PiLams Olde West, to exotic 
locales such as DTDs Atlantis, 
DUs Land of the Lost, KDRs 
ForbiddenCity,Trideltas Lego 
Land, and SAE's Gilligans Is
land, the booth themes for Car
nival 94 are quite diverse.
For those who miss the arctic 
temperatures of this past winter, 
plan on stopping by A Hockey
Night in Canada from the 
Hockey Club, Phi Kaps Norwayinspired booth, or CIAs version 
of Switzerland. If you yearn for 
warm climes, head on down to 
Naval ROTCs Hot Spots Around 
the World, Sigma Nus Seven 
Seas, Spirits Caribbean, Theta 
Xis Puerto Rico, or DGs Great 
Barrier Reef.
Carnival will feature a wide 
variety of bands, from hard rock 
to a cappella, alternative to R&B, 
and reggae to bagpipes. Student
Senate increased the budget for 
Carnival this year, and as a re
sult, there will be many more offcampus performers. I hope that 
people come to see as much as 
they can, says Jill Goodall, en
tertainment chair for Spring Car
nival.
The first band to perform will 
be Whiskey Tango. Hailed as gui
tar and violin virtuosos, the 
group usually tours Europe dur
ing the summer and plays at col
leges and universities across the
States in the fall and spring. 
Other groups to pay close atten
tion to: Distinguished Gentleman, 
an R&B a cappella group, one of 
whose members attends Carnegie 
Mellon; the roots-rock reggae of 
Strykers Posse; and House Jacks, 
a cappella in-your-face, 
[Which] doesnt really sound a 
cappellanotes Goodall.
Fans of alternative music can 
listen to Belly, Carnival headlin
ers, and the alumni band, ms.lum.
Please see CARNIVAL, page L2Boomdn looy goof no !.x
Mark Eggert/Tartn Art Co-Editor
By RHONDA STRUMINGER
Tartan Staffwriter
This years Spring Carnival theme, Around 
the World, has 32 organizations hammering, 
painting, and sawing their way to some pretty 
interesting creations.
The Carnival Schedule lists the booth themes 
and the organizations building them, but the 
question remains, what should we look for?
On Saturday, despite the late afternoon rain, 
the indefatigable booth chairs and their orga
nization members were hard at work.
Fringe was going strong creating Amelia 
Earharts crash in the jungle. Fringe member 
Matt Beck says there will be a [silver! plane 
that is going to loom over the mid-way. Marc 
Tinkler, Fringes booth chair, added that it 
will hang precariously over your head.
KGBs MIR (the Russian Space Station) is 
the smallest booth they have ever built, but 
thanks to Andy Presbys artwork, the interior 
detail work promises to be worth a visit. 
CIAs comer of Switzerland, promises 
visions of the Alps  maybe a chalet, 
some goats, Heidi. Look for them next to 
Lambda Sigmas rendition ofPittsburgh.
Follow the sounds of the bell to Sig Tau 
Gammas rural American one room schoolhouse. Their detailed roofing is definitely an 
attraction. Chair Kirk Freidenberger claims 
the bell will be ringing all the time on midway, 
so you shouldnt have a problem missing it!
Sig Taus bell will be competing with the 
sirens of AEPis Alcatraz. The main attrac
tion is their game: a combination lock. When 
someone wins, the police sirens will sound and 
everyone will try to escape.
Tired of the noise? Theta Xis Puerto Rico 
will be right next door, and Delta Gamma will 
be taking us away to the Barrier Reef. There 
will be an under water scene for both the day
and night. No stress here!
Kappa Kappa Gamma will be taking us to 
Hershey, Pennsylvania. Expect to see a big 
Hershey Kiss and, according to Kappa sister 
Alexa Domeck, theyll be giving away hugs and 
kisses too.
Not so inviting will be KDRs Forbidden City. 
According to their booth chair Marc Colosimo, 
this booth will be very roomy and very deco
rated. Hmmm ...
For some real fun, try out Trideltas Lego Land. 
Lego Land trees adorn the outside and there is an 
arcade on the way in.
Kappa Alpha Theta says it is working on its 
most unique booth yet. Theta sisters Alice Mensch, 
Laura Davis and Dani David claim their booth is 
going to be beautiful. The interior will be a Zen 
garden and there will be a working fountain.
Spirit will feature the Caribbean at their booth 
and Sigma Nu will be taking us for a ride along 
the seven seas. With all the rain, we should be 
ready for the beach, but Im. not too sure about a 
boat ride...
This year Delta Upsilon takes us to a styrofoam 
"Land of the Lost." This booth promises a prehis
toric lanscape complete with a dinosuar and a tar 
pit. According to Marc Mileto, the booths de
signer, the T-rex scene will be complete with 
hand-crafted plants and dinosaur eggs.
Pioneers booth will feature the Showplace of 
the World: Radio City Music Hall. Their 24-foothigh structure will be hard to miss, according to 
Pioneers booth chair, Chirs McCormack. To play 
their game, you knock Rockettes over with bean 
bags. After a try at their game, you can make your 
way upstairs to their movie theater.
Phi Kappa Theta has decided to create a Nor
wegian Stave Church. According to Jason 
Bareford, Phi Kaps booth chair, there are only 30 
such churches left standingtoday as the churches 
Please see BOOTH, page L3
Compubookie predicts Spirit upset in 94 Sweepstakes
By COMPUBOOKIE
Special to The Tartan
[Editor's Note: We dont know who 
Compubookie is or from whence it comes. 
So dont hold us responsible.]
Compubookie, having dealt with his 
penis envy in therapy and with his new 
home almost finished, has set out his 
predictions again this year. The issues 
surrounding the chute have been re
solved and Raceday 94 is on.
Weather this spring, although a factor 
this year, has not been as much of an 
issue as has winter's effect on the course. 
Potholes, bigger and badder cracks in 
the road, and construction at the bridge 
have all added to the interest and excite
ment of this years raceday. With more 
rolls than this troll has seen in years, 
my predictions should be right on
the money this year.
It appears that Spirits dominance in 
Sweepstakes may have ended with last 
years win. Their mens team doesnt 
seem to be as strong as in years past, and 
their new buggy is no improvement on 
those of recent showings.
Strong buggies are important, but 
stronger pushers can make a world of 
difference. Sigma Nu, with the addi
tion of a few track members to their 
push team, seems to be a real con
tender for the number one slot. Zoo 
has always made a strong showing on 
raceday, and this could be their year 
to shine.
Barring a spin, however, my predic
tion for winner in the mens races goes to 
Pi Kappa Alpha. The Pikes have several 
veteran pushers returning and have 
found a new strength in some impres
sive freshmen.
PiKAs close times in the years past, 
combined with the weakness of Spirits 
mens team, make it a safe bet that no 
one, including Beta, will be able to catch 
them this year.
Some of the other organizations vy
ing for a spot in the top five will be 
Beta, SDC, and Phi Kap. Beta, main
taining a strong push team, can only 
be helped by improvements at the me
chanical end of the spectrum. If only 
their buggies showed the consistent 
strength of their push
ers. Speaking of consis
tency, Phi Kap is always 
a competent organization 
that rolls strongly and 
pushes well, much like 
SDC. These two have 
faithfully ended up in the 
top 10 in recent years, 
and chances are they will
do just as well or better than past years 
on raceday.
Womens teams this year, according to 
rumors under the bridge, will be quite 
similar to last year, with one exception. 
The Queen of Hill One belongs to Spirit, 
and with a strong royal court they should 
not have a problem clinching the womens 
title this year.
The real fight this year is for second 
place, with PiKA, Theta Xi, and Sigma 
Nu
tions to dominate the womens races as 
they did in years past have drawn them 
to Sigma Nus buggies. Theta Xi, with 
their ability to recruit independent rac
ers, will remain a contender for another 
year, and PiKA will have to work hard to 
hold onto the title this year.
As usual, raceday will hold many sur
prises. Weather permitting, there should 
be many good times and several quality 
chows. The chute, as always, will be the
i Nu A
uomou-ooywrn dwmn .af mwnnrn
ASA: Please stop. You are 
scaring the children.
Beta: Their pushers are 
their only saving grace. By 
the way, lose the bell.
CIA: Close encounters of 
the Curb Kind.
DTD: Woodstock reunion ... 
March 96.
DU: Nipples attendance at 
freerolls explains much about 
this organizations chances 
for the Top 10.
Fringe: They dont chow 
like they used to.
Theyrrre great!
Kappa Sigma: Keeping 
Post Gazette in business. Put 
the comics up on raceday.
KDR: Field a push team, 
buy new paint.
Phi Kap: Compubookie is 
still trying to figure out that 
stupid axle.
Pi Lam: Whoops  thought 
they actually did buggy!
PiKA: A single spin cant 
stop their push team. Did 
KDR sell you some paint?
Pioneers: Keep stroking.
Some day it will come.
SAE: Limo is their best bet.
SDC: Number one Indepen
dent. On the upswing.
Sig Tau: Dont fight the 
feeling. It rolls.
Sigma Nu: Smokin fast 
buggies, big ugly pushers, 
watch out Spirit.
Spirit: Compubookie wants 
to know why it wasnt called 
to push for Spirit like every
one else.
Theta Xi: Congratulations 
on Greek Sing.
a.xk Eggert/Tartan Art Co-Editor

---------------------------------------------------

L2Tdr T.xm.a  u.xargwr Mrlloa  11 Aoxwl 1994
Poet Ginsberg informs crowd as he entertains
By JEREMY KREIGEL
Special to The Tartan
Its 7:15 Friday, April 8. Ive been 
waiting in the ballroom since six, 
and even then a few people had set 
up camp outside the ballroom. Why? 
To hear Allen Ginsberg.
Whos Allen Ginsberg? said many 
when I asked them if they were go
ing to hear him read. Whos Allen 
Ginsberg? I asked back, shocked. 
Beat, poet, Jewish, and gay are just 
a few of the titles brought to mind 
when his name is mentioned.
A legend in his own time, some 
might say, he is a poet known for his 
gentle honesty (as he dislikes the 
term brutally honest). He has been 
called the voice of his generation 
and is one of the poets who helped 
define the Beat movement.
Theyve opened the doors now, and 
throngs of people have started pouring 
in: college students, professors, a parent 
who wants his two young children to 
hear Ginsberg read, some who know his 
poetry intimately, others who have heard 
of his mythology and have come to see 
the legend in person.
There are poetry lovers and English 
majors, society dropouts come to see the 
man who epitomizes free thought. No 
matter who they are, theyve all come to 
see a master of the English language 
read his manipulations and be inspired.
Whats it like to be Allen Ginsberg?
someone asked at an informal lecture 
this morning in the Adamson Wing. I 
have a pain in my back, he answered 
modestly. The first thing I learned from 
him is that Ginsberg is a man, who 
happens to be famous. He has none of 
the vanity that is 
often associated 
with someone of 
his stature.
He answered 
questions about the 
pressure caused by 
being who he is 
with surprising lev
ity: Everything is 
transitory. Since 
he will not live for
ever, he feels no 
external pressure.
Eight pm sharp.
A man in his late 
60s slowly walked 
onto the stage in a 
gray suit, removed 
his jacket and hung 
it on the back of his 
wooden chair, 
checked his har
monium and sat 
down while his cousin, CMU history 
professor Eugene Levy, related the 
first time they met.
So let me introduce Allen 
Ginsberg, he concluded, and the 
audience went wild.
As an invocation to poetry, he started
off by singing one of William Blakes 
poems with his harmonium. Bom Bom, 
Bom Bom he chanted while his heels 
bounced to the beat. From there, he 
read some poems from his book White 
Shroud, which contains poems from 
1980-85, and his 
new book, Cosmo
politan Greetings, 
which has just 
been released.
He remained 
seated for the en
tire reading, only 
moving to get his 
harmonium or to 
accentuate a 
phrase with a 
small hand ges
ture.
When he is just 
speaking, he is a 
small man with a 
small voice which 
just creeps out of 
the left side of his 
mouth. But when 
he is reciting, we 
see the lion which 
still lives within.
Many of his poems contain the same 
poignant sarcasm for which he has been 
known. An example is the poem Argu
ments, which begins with a simple con
flict: You threw the butter in the pan/I 
did not you let it melt on the stove and 
moves on to You built a bigger H bomb
Jim Snyder/ Tarn Photo Editor 
Ginsberg read in the ballroom Friday night.
than I did/You used poison gas in 
Indochina, and ends with Youre un
der arrest/I declare war!/Why dont we 
turn off the loudspeakers.
White Shroud was another of the 
poems which Ginsberg read. It is a fol
low up to his 1959 poem Kaddish about 
the death of his mother.
In Kaddish he relates different events 
of his mothers life and how he was 
affected. In White Shroud he travels to 
the land of the dead and sees his mother 
as a bag lady on the streets. He talks 
with her and plans to move in next to her 
so that he can care for her. He wakes up 
and is glad to have seen her after all 
these years.
Then there was his humor, illustrated 
by Those Two. That tree said /1 dont 
like that white car under me, / it smells 
of gasoline / That other tree next to it 
said / O youre always complaining / 
youre a neurotic/you can see by the way 
youre bent over.
He sang such poems as Meditation 
Rock, which is essentially a how-tomeditate poem, and Put Down That 
Cigarette Rag. He used his harmonium 
and a set of claves and sang with a great 
deal of energy.
Even though he is getting on in 
years and his frail body is not as 
energetic as it used to be, his mind is 
as keen and active as ever. He has 
very strong political beliefs.
He thinks that marijuana and some of 
the other, weaker, drugs should be le
galized. Then they could figure out what 
to do with other drugs like cocaine and 
crack. Although he believes in legal, 
ization, he is against smoking ciga. 
rettes and overuse of drugs. If the 
billions of dollars which are used to 
fight the war on drugs were put into 
making rehabilitation available to ey. 
eryone who needed it, and if other 
drugs were legal, the war on drugs 
would be unneccessary.
He advocates that the government 
also stop its own cocaine and d 
trade and set an example instead of 
being hypocritical.
He believes that Clinton is being unfairly persecuted for Whitewatergate. 
There were many worse travesties (i.t 
Iran/Contra and the Iran hostages) that 
past presidents have gotten away with. 
As he said in one of his poems, the Bush 
and Reagan administrations remem. 
bered to forget the right things.
Ginsberg also talked about the many 
everyday things that endanger the environment. He pointed out the flourescent 
lights above us and how much they dam
age the environment. This is the kind of 
crime we all commit every day. Unfortu
nately, there are some things we just 
cannot change.
So what can we do? Now? someone 
asked in an impromptu interview.
He turned to us and said, almost like 
a father, Stand your ground, and when 
you get into a conversation, always tel] 
the truth.
Fun planned for everyone at Carnival
CARNIVAL, from page LI
Those into jazz can have their 
ears soothed by the Bloomfield 5 
and the CMU Jazz Choir. Rock 
fans will be pleased by All Fall 
Down and High Voltage, in 
addition to acoustic performer 
Roger Gillen and the SDCsponsored funk rock band 
Frankenstein.
Carnival will also include co
medians Drew Carey, David 
Kinne, and Carlos Alazraqui, 
as well as hypnotist Ramelle 
MaCoy and caricaturists Scott 
Fertig and Chas.
For those hoping for a little 
dramatic culture, the drama 
department will present the 
play Saturday, Sunday, Mon
day each night at 8 pm in the 
Kresge Theatre.
Nemeses will be performed 
by Scotch n Soda in Skibo 
ballroom. If you want to catch 
a flick, AB Special Events will 
present the films M, Waynes 
World II, and Little Rascals in 
Doherty Hall 2210.
Visiting alumni can partake of 
an open house Friday afternoon, 
in addition to a Panther Hollow 
Inn happy hour and a reunion
picnic next to CFA for the classes 
of89 and 93. Sports enthusiasts 
can check out the womens la
crosse game with Wheeling Je
suit Saturday afternoon. All in 
all, it seems that this year there 
really will be something for ev
eryone at Spring Carnival. So 
even if you dont make it to those 
early morning buggy races, be 
sure you dont miss everything!
Compithookie picks teams 
to win Sweepstakes 94
Mens Team Predictions9.ThetaXi A
1.PiKAA10.Sigma Nu B
2.Sigma Nu A
3.Spirit AWomens Team Predict
4.Beta A1.Spirit A
5.Phi Kap A2.PiKAA
6.PiKAB3.Spirit B
7.Spirit B4.Sigma Nu A
8.SDCA5.Theta Xi A
SHORT & SUITE
ELEGANTLY FURNISHED STUDIO 
** 1 OR 2 BEDROOM **
APARTMENT SUITES
Only a few steps from fashionable Walnut street 
shops and restaurants. From $49 per day (on a 
monthly basis.) PLEASE CALL FOR SPECIAL UNI
VERSITY RATES. Includes free calls, cable TV, VCR, 
all linen completely equipped kitchen and parking.
(412)441-4444
5405 Fifth Avenue, Pittburgh, PA 15232 Toll Free 1-800-767-8483
Havent Decided 
lllhere to Study This 
Summer?
uomr mo Swra./Floxrair, 
Im.ls uuwmd un! 
Tdr Srnnwoar Srarnr orx 
munwi. r IMxmr 
Tdr Uawvrxnwms o! Swra.-S 
Juls 16 - Augunm 18, 1994
Swra. In .a rlrg.am mrfwrv.l iwms Ia mdr mouam.wan o! aoxmd 
uramx.l Im.ls, .ooxoxwm.mrls 30 mwlrn noumd o! Floxrair, Ia 
mdr dr.xm o! Tuni.as, -wxmdol.ir o! mdr Rra.wnn.air. Bomd 
.xr ioanwfrxrf .moag mdr monm Imooxm.am .xmn rafouwrf 
iwmwrn wa mdr ujoxlf.
5.5.m./l, aow Ia Imn 5md nr.noa, o!!rxn . uawqur lr.xawag 
ooooxmuawms. Tdrxr .xr iouxnrn wa Im.lw.a .af munwifxmSoilrms-ulvlllz.mwoa, -omd ixrfwm .af aoa-ixrfwm. TxloB mo 
Vrawir, Hnnlnw, Iwn., Floxrair, .af Irxugw. .xr wailufrf. 8 
Iuiiwaw oorx. orx!oxm.air .m dwn vwll. .af . !oux-f.s mxwo mo 
Smwmzrxl.af .af Romr In oomwoa.l.
5.5.m.f. o!!rxn . xoom .af -o.xf ol.a, Iailufwag iulmux.l 
mxwon, iouxnnn, ioairxmn .af mx.vrl. I.xmwiwo.amn mwll -r 
dounrf .m mdr Iwiiolo Tdr.mxo, Iranloar-S. Trxrn. .af Ia 
iom!oxm.-lr o.anwoarn ar.x mdr uawvrxnwms. 8 noriw.l ol.a In 
o!!rxrf !ox mr.ln. Tdr ionm !ox xoom .af -o.xf I- $1,685. 
I.xmwiwo.amn rlrim .m lr.nm 3 .i.frmwi iouxnrn .m $245 r.id 
.af .xr rlwgw-lr mo !ls oa . id.xmrxrf !lwgdm !xom !lrw soxd mo 
Romr !ox $699 xouafmxlo.
Fox !uxmdrx wa!oxm.mwoa, ioam.im S.S.m./l. F.iulms: 
Fx.aio Sil.aa.mro, uF<1 159, 362-7241 (lr.vr mrnn.gr)
(

---------------------------------------------------

Tdr T.xm.a  u.xargwr Mrlloa  11 Aoxwl 1994L3
Buggy organizations prepare for Sweepstakes
jjy JENNIFER BARKEN
fartan Staffwriter
preparation for the annual Spring 
arnival is well underway, and all those 
volved with the Buggy organizations 
in the midst of a hectic couple of 
ffeeks. Pushers, drivers, and chairs have 
jjeen spending a lot of time on hills one 
through five, making sure that this years 
gffeepstakes goes off smoothly. Mid
nights last week saw a lot of exciting, 
buzzing confusion.
An outside observer might be slightly 
uprised at the people running around 
vdth walkie-talkies, the teams cheering 
their pushers and drivers, and the 
somewhat unique looking buggies, which 
are like capsules with people inside, 
ffowever, this late night activity helps 
characterize Spring Carnival every 
ear at CMU. Even the push practices 
draw quite a crowd, which should refute 
(he idea that CMU lacks school spirit. 
Beginning at 7 am last Saturday, the 
organinizations with buggies began to 
'set up shop, as large U-Haul trucks 
pere lined up, each one temporarily be
longing to a different team. Despite the 
odd practice hours and physical de
mands, most of the team members 
seemed very enthusiastic about the up
coming event. In fact, the atmosphere 
seemed to breed excitement, as even the 
bystanders appeared to thoroughly en
joy themselves.
Though it was tough tracking down 
the people in charge, I did get to speak 
with one of the assistant judges, several 
buggy chairs, and many team members. 
General concensus seemed to favor 
Spirit, PiKA, and Beta as the top three 
teams.
Heres what some organizations had 
to say about this years Sweepstakes: 
Beta Theta Pi:
Chair: Kevin Keir 
Buggies: Even Flow, Animal 
Chairs thoughts on race day: Its go
ing to be an interesting race.
Spirit:
Chair: Mike Beard 
Buggies: Shaka Zulu, Menes, Vicious 
Flow, Tachyon, Quantum Leap.
Chairs thoughts on race day: There 
isnt much improvement to be made from 
last year. Our push team has had much 
depth in the past. Its the same competi
tion, PiKA and Beta. Beta looks really 
good.
Phi Kappa Theta:
Chair: Greg Sanchez 
Buggies: Secretariat, Centennial, 
Schademfreude 
Chairs thoughts on race day: We are 
going to do well this year. I think Beta Ateam is going to win. We are really 
excited about our new neon wheels. And 
if we dont die on race day, we should run 
pretty well!
SDC:
Chair: JohnDicosola 
Buggies: Sambuca, Escargot, Terra
pin, Bonzai
Chairs thoughts on race day: I
think our mens and womens A-teams 
have a very good chance at making the 
finals. Beta is very strong this year. I 
think Spirits womens A-team will fare 
very well.
Delta Tau Delta:
Chair: Frank Pecjak 
Buggies: Icculus, Darkstar 
Chairs thoughts on race day: We 
have relatively fast push teams. PiKA 
looks pretty good. Im looking forward to 
race day, and all that good stuff!
Pi Kappa Alpha:
Chair: Andy Bordick
Buggies: Race Day One, Race Day
Two, Maverick, Mach Two, Desparado 
Chairs thoughts on race day: Sigma 
Nu are rolling like champs. They seem 
to have good athletes this year. Were 
doing good and looking forward to a fun 
race day.
Kappa Delta Rho:
Chairman: Bob Kay 
Buggies: Palooka, Pheonix, Promiscu
ous, Prometheus 
Chairs thoughts on race day: We are 
going to make top 10 this year. I think 
Beta is going to win.
Sigma Nu:
Chair: Scott Francisco 
Buggies: Okapi H Johnston, Tenth 
Commandment, KO$D419, Jama 
Chairs thoughts on race day: I pre
dict PiKA to come in first place. Spirit 
will come in second. I predict a Beta 
spin.
Delta Upsilon:
Chair: Greg Dupier 
Buggies: Merkanser, Garganey, Teal 
Whistler
Chairs thoughts on race day: We 
have three new guys in charge this year. 
It will be a year of growth.
We will come out strong next year. 
There are a lot of potholes on this years
course. The teams with good pushers 
and light buggies will have the most 
success.
Theta Xi:
Chair: Ko Tsugami 
Buggies: Little Nip, Valkure, Nemesis 
Chairs thoughts on race day: Its 
been a fun year. We hope to make mens 
top ten. I think PiKA will take it. 
Sigma Alpha Epsilon:
Chair: Hastings Wyman 
Buggy: Takoohi
Chairs thoughts on race day: SAE 
salutes SAE. Last year we didnt roll at 
all so this year was a rebuilding year. 
Our original driver had a problem. Our 
present driver is slightly overagressive. 
Fringe:
Chair: Bruce Pollock 
Buggies: Scimitar, Genuine Risk, 
Lunatice, Barrier, Junior 
Chairs thoughts on race day: All 
three, Spirit, PiKA, and Beta are look
ing strong this year. This is a rebuilding 
year for our organization. Mens and 
womens A-teams are composed of re
turning people.
It seems like a lot of team are experi
encing gliches. Hopefully the weather 
will be beautiful next weekend.
Student makes connection between parking and printers
Horror Stories
by Tom Harper
I stopped by campus last Friday. It was in the 
middle of spring break and I had to print somemg out a friend of mine had sent me. I noticed 
something entirely new to this campus: available 
parking spaces. LOTS ofem.
I was on my way to my Reserve unit. It was about 
:30 am. I was in my camouflage stuff.
I pulled in to the oh so precious parking space by 
the gym and started my quest to get my document 
printed out. I chose what I had thought the closest 
cluster was  the West Wing one.
Luckily, it was open. I got in, sat down, and 
logged in. The machine kindly informed me that 
the printers Smoke and Beech were unavailable
during spring break. I looked over where Beech 
usually sat and, sure enough, they were gone.
Then I thought, This is gonna happen to me 
while Im still here.
I was right.
I headed to another 24-hour clusterthe Cyert 
Hall one. Luckily I found it was open. I then 
entered to see that some guy was putting up signs 
at each Macintosh saying that they would be off the 
net for a few hours. Im sure he knew I was coming 
and said, How can I tick this guy off? Well, he did 
alright, and I tried to use a PC but when I tried to 
print the thing it kept giving me some stupid 
message saying no printer was specified in Prefer
ences. When I did specify a printer it still gave me 
the same frickin message!!! I then thought, I knew 
iti I just knew it. And since I am by nature a 
glutton for punishment, I decided to continue on 
my search for a way to get this thing printed.
So I headed to the Baker Cluster. Knowing my 
luck, there wouldve been a CSW class in there 
waiting for me and with a mean instructor threat
ening to kick me out. I looked in and there were 
people in there. So I sat down, logged in, got readyGroups prepare their booths
Booth, from page LI
are oldest wooden structures in 
the western world. The game 
promises to be a challenge and 
the woodwork on the roof is defi
nitely worth seeing.
Pi Lambda Phi will take us 
back to the western theme with 
their "Olde West" motif.
Beta Theta Pi started building 
their booth on Saturday, have 
already completed the columns 
for their Parthenon of Athens. 
They will once again offer bas
ketball as their game, For the 
Greek love of sport.
If youre interested in what 
DTD brother Eric Rosen describes 
is the juxtaposition of a Greek
Temple and aquatic elements, 
you should check out DTDs ver
sion of the raising of Atlantis. 
Interpretations of a lost city ... 
any ideas?
Gilligan and his gang across 
the midway might, thanks to 
SAE.
Meanwhile, the Korean Stu
dent Association will take us on 
a trip to Korea and ASA has 
been building a Gateway to the 
Eastern Skies.
The Hockey Club will be offer
ing Carnival goers a "Hockey 
Night in Canada," while the 
Swim Team has volunteered to 
swim the Atlantic Ocean for us.
Playing games will keep usCarnival makes winners of all
Alen in Residence
by Micki Kochanskyj
Theres a lot of competition around here lately. 
What with Carnival Booths vying for blue ribbons 
Md contraptions hurtling along at light speed to 
win that coveted Buggy title, with all this talk of 
whos valedictorian, or who got that perfect sum
mer job or into that great graduate school  its 
fairly easy to get lost in a blur of winning or losing. 
Well, we all know the adage, its not if you win or 
; its how you play the game, but thats not 
touch comfort for the losers.
Finding myself caught up in this haze of cut
throat activity, I was reminded of something that 
hit me like a ton of bricks a few years ago. It was a 
concept I hadnt considered before.
I was a counselor at summer camp. Fresh from 
England, I had no idea that mid-way through the 
season we were evaluated according to how well 
've were doing our jobs. There were the usual 
categories  participation, timeliness, getting on 
Kell with the kids  and another, one I hadnt 
cored too highly in. Leadership.
I never considered that I would be judged for my 
leadership. Being the voracious competitor I am, I 
toade a decision to remedy the situation. I was 
[going to be a leader.
| It wasnt easy at first. It was the difference
to print my document out, and I got a message 
saying that neither Chip nor Dale was on the 
network. I go in to the little room and see Chip, 
Dale, and Maple dozing off. The message of the Day 
said that the printers were being upgraded, but 
these printers were just sitting around and not 
being upgraded.
From the Chooser it said that the Wean printers 
were on-line, so I got disgusted and headed to 
Wean. I thought, Great! and I carried this thought 
all the way to the locked door of the Wean cluster.
I had no patience left. I stormed back to the car 
devoid of my document.
I passed CFA and thought, Hell, maybe their 
cluster is closed as well. I walk in there in my camos 
expecting to be thronged by everybody on campus 
who hates the military. Luckily I wasnt. I also 
discovered the cluster was closed. At least until 
noon.
Well, I had had enough, and I was heading back 
to the car when I remembered the huge grad 
cluster in the basement of GSIA. I said to myself, 
Do I dare enter those hallowed halls? Do I dare use 
a grad cluster when undergraduates are requested
to use public clusters? Do I dare V
I dared.
I passed all the maintenance staff and headed to 
the basement. All those Centrises. I saw two huge 
HP Laserjets ready and rarin to go. Why disap
point them? I logged on, got the document all nice 
and printed out (all twenty-eight pages of it), got 
out of there as quick as I got in, and managed to 
somehow beat the traffic and make it to my Re
serve unit on time.
Well, at least I got some exercise wandering 
around campus looking for a printer. I even had 
breakfast en route  which is another column in 
itself, but Ill condense it. I pulled up to McDonalds 
and noticed someone being taken out on a stretcher 
to an awaiting ambulance. Lets say I reevaluated 
my decision rather quickly.
Almost as quickly as when I nearly strangled the 
Baker Cluster CCon. Sorry about that.
Tom Harper, soon to be physics I computer science 
major Tom Harper, decided to come back here early 
so he could write this column. The story of his doing 
so is almost as funny.
busy if the booths dont! But wait, 
we havent even walked into Kappa 
Bigs "Beer World."
ROTCs "Hot Spots Around the 
World" should keep us firing away.
And I saved SDCs "Cities 
Around the World" for last. This 
booth is not just all-encompass
ing, its round!
Inside there will be lights for 
every major city on the walls. As 
one SDC member, Scott Curtain 
noted, it should prove to be inter
esting and fun.
I think the same can be said 
for the rest of the booths. So 
long as the rain stops falling, 
this Carnival should prove to 
be as fun as ever.
between standing around waiting for someone else 
to raise their hand and raising it myself. It was 
taking charge when the situation demanded. It 
was accepting responsibility for the decisions I 
made when those decisions affected others. It be
came easier.
Since then, Ive volunteered for just about every
thing I can lay my hands on. Ive not been afraid to 
take chances. Ive realized that one cannot do 
everything and do everything justice. One has to 
leam to be selective.
These, I think, are particularly American les
sons. They can be learned in American schools, 
through the numerous extra-curricular activities 
offered. An American child has the opportunity to 
captain a team, edit a newspaper or yearbook, and 
organize events. One can work towards academic 
achievements, too.
These are all options denied English school chil
dren. There are many reasons I thank my lucky 
stars I am now an American resident. Not the least 
of them is that I have had the chance to know what 
real leadership is.
In the hustle of activity that accompanies CMU 
Carnival preparations, I dont see winners and 
losers. I see the natural order of things coming into 
play. I see leaders leading, I see leaders in the 
making. I see those more comfortable with follow
ing. But they work together towards a common end 
 making winners of them all.
Micki Kochanskyj, senior staffwriter and cre
ative writing major, is busy trying to provide lead
ership advice to her friends  to lay back and take 
it easy  after all, Spring is here and the sun is 
finally, finally out.
IRIXCI P 1. K S of SOU X 1) R I-: T I R K M K N I I N V E ST I N G
~1
UNFORTUNATELY THIS IS WHERE 
PEOPLE ARE PUTTING 
TOO MANY RETIREMENT DOLLARS.
E
very year, a lot of people make a 
huge mistake on their taxes. They 
dont take advantage of tax deferral and 
wind up sending Uncle Sam money they 
could be saving for retirement.
Fortunately, thats a mistake you can 
easily avoid with TIAA-CREF SRAs. 
SRAs not only ease your current taxbite. they offer a remarkably easy way 
to build retirement incomeespecially 
for the "extras" that your regular pension 
and Social Security benefits may not 
cover. Because your contributions are 
made in before-tax dollars, you pav less 
taxes now. And since all earnings on 
vour SRA are tax-deferred as well, the
money you dont send to Washington 
works even harder for you. Down the 
road, that can make a dramatic difference 
in your quality of life.
What else makes SRAs so special?
A range of allocation choicesfrom the 
guaranteed security of TIAA to the 
diversified investment accounts of 
CREFs variable annuityall backed 
by the nations number one retirement 
system.
Why write off the chance for a more 
rewarding retirement? Call today and 
learn more about how TIAA-CREF 
SRAs can help you enjoy many 
happy returns.
Benefit now from tax deferral. Call our SRA hotline 1800-842-2733, ext. 8016.
Ensuring the future 
for those who shape it!
iire JwtrthuUJ by 11:1. l-l Kh.b liuhit^ualanil l/utilulunial Stnuffj. t\<r nu're complete mh'rnuiln'n. mduiUna charges am1 e.vpt 
1 -all /1> >. e.xl. SOIh f.'r a projptHtu. Reail tbrprwpretui carefully before you uwe.'t i<r .<em> money

---------------------------------------------------

l!spgprCOMICS
s rve RtEw''xT0K6Kjxmu? 8sTH 
orxv.nwvrarnn o F L SUFFERING l*J T \. woftLC?. y
I we 6E*J > 
GetratdeG e>3LITES lMViTAl
v lonnrn. U
^ IWfc EEfJ 
THOROGHt1) FREA^' OOt 6^ OU)k) 
AfatdG AMa IN\P10IJC) , 
-^PEATH. s^^T
afLI My LIF 1V 
HAP ATeouBiep 
s. HEAR.T.
Weeks & Weeks/X'VE. ENGAGED lA r PEEP MBDtTATlOK). 1 
8*jt the. I*JSV6HT? I've 
6AiHt\? HAV0*OLi 8*) ^PpAtiAu' consolijG^
I'VE wM!^RSEO MISEw! IK) IHIlOMId>)( IUT n.olw,md.m d.n 8&i*j -, UUT|N\ATEL<C lasifesd.ea1o
r I'VE STuovEO THE 
GREAT SPIRITUAL. 
TEACHER. OF THE , 
u)0ftv-0, BuT STILL-/ meejp MoE.T
r HOu) iWEloNGeo FOR SOME RELIEF 
FROM THE Pa0 . V 1 FEEL. uN
Calvin and Hobbes 
Life in Hell 
Doonesbury 
The Far Side
/rvt SOUGHT Pu)ftR>)tSSc Ik) PSICHOAMAOSSlS.flJT 
AFTER SVOAL jiwAS m?> THE uouiH, X FrEuONOI 1 6, LlTTVm uLOSER. TO THE J 
-----sTRUTU. s
/IVEEVEN SOUGHTN 'LIBERATION Iy) uA!mwOAU OrSlR.E, VT ALAS THOSE. MOMENTS OI . R!mITUOm HvvF REE.J J mmcLLf44 FttfcTCNG./
OJAS OUT TAfci^ 
f\ U)ALK, U)HE*J SU00Eril>) 
A SMALL. SHid^ PBRL Ssmui1 r, eye. V
r JoT TOOPH, aftejT>P\LL THESE. Si EARS 
OF SEARCH^.... SOMETH1J6 AmATjiJ'6 s HAPPENED. /-------J
AS I GAT.EI WTO THE SMOBTU 
TEXTURE OF THIS TINS I6BLE
InsI i nder io Ind m!i. x-H!mNo, EVEMTHwJG 
uLEAR, ANO 1 WAS u.OSNmuAU.1
o ?) vxrw? u) yun mdr uy> W6RS.
f FOmTHE. Fm!mS'l' 
TmME NV^) LONG 
SPIRITUAL JOURNEYx -ddaI!xd fdswd;
m IuTSoyr Iow.i ) you ft. yfoCnivl!s THIS MORNN6.Unfortunately, this kind of frivolous comic-fest is space con
suming so several other comics couldn't be run this week (such 
as ktdggt 9STmu7 AuE9PSLCkGt 't7 zLPgtdP 9G"h7 w"gLSe7 
fd.d,wF7 and b"ttSm ktd IGGKTW Look for them next week!
pgL IeTetcTkeI rf er r9e
WORLD RECORD FOR ____-
WANING ONE'S FINGER
CONTINUOUSLY
IN ONES NOSE l\ S
I'd rc^her 
change th 
Uqw /
I uANT BELIEVE. 
THERE'S EVEN SUuH 
A uATEGORY.
I DOM CARE ABOUT BEING 
ACCEPTED. I'D SETTLE FOR 
BEING \GN0RED.
Indo DxoyI 
ixxk sI w!
\N THAT uASE 
uALL ME 
"uHAM?"/
THIS owrir ox IIE IS 
AWFULLi eARN SMALL /
LIFE uOULe \ l\FE uOULe 
BE WORSE, BE A LOT 
uALM IN. ' BETTER.
V,.______TOO /
WU'i UUMANS? BECAUSE, IN 
TO TUtlR VALUE AS 
SLAVE LABOR, THEY ARE ALSO 
DELICIOUS AND HUTRITIOUS/ 
HA HA ^
BUT FIRST, FOR SOUR EARTH 
CUSTOM OF -SWOW AND TELL" 
I WILL EXHIBIT 5CME OF 
OUR TERRIFYING WEAPONRY.
S\\QC BlPG I AIL RIGHT, 
o-LAR mchh ' aiviN, m? 
GAHSHH.' RK-' I QUITE ENCWQ
GREETINGS. I AM BIOR-UTAR 
FROM ZVMTOK-5. I HAVE 
COME TO SUBJUGATE TUE 
HUMAN RACE. Do NOT RESIST.
BeI WORSE 
IS WORE 
LIKELY.
MV5S WORWftt 
SHOJLDNT HE 
BE IN SW 
SPECIAL sum 
OR
THE ONLY SPORT \S DRW IMG 
MOM CRAZY.
FROM NOW 
ON, M 
GOAL IS 
TO FEEL 
GOOe ABOJT 
KVSELF
HO, I'M GO\N6 TO WHINE 
UNTIL L- GET THE SIEuIAL 
TREATMENT I L\KE.
I WONeER IF ANYONE EVSE 
IS AS SuAREe !BuUT THE 
FUTURE AS I AM. !___
I'VE OECIDED 
1 SUFFER 
FROM LOW 
SELF I 
ESTEEM A
WORE GOING TO WORK HARDER 
AT EVERYTHIHG
s3c .BACc
SOME CHARACTER ?
BUT WHEN \TS 
RAINING... S\GU.
WHEN IT SNOWS, XOU CAN GO 
5LEDDING. WHEN ITS WINDY, 
YOU CAN FLY K\TES WHEN ITS 
HOT, '(OU CAN GO SWIMMING .
I'VE FOUND THAT 
IMMEDIATE 
GRATIFICATION 
IS THE ONLY 
THING THAT 
HELPS ME. /
EWViVI/ WHAT'S THIS, 
SOMETHING SCRAPED OFF 
THE BOTTOM OF BOOTS Z? 
I'M NOT EATING IT/
CALVIN, I MADE THIS LAST 
WEEK AND VOU SAID IT WAS 
VOJR FAVORITE MEAL OF ALL 
TIME AND 10U WISHED WE 
COULD HNYE \T EVERY DAY 
FOR THE REST OF 
TO. LIFE !
ANOTHER DAY.
s3m1ife uesy plth Fme rmr$
BLBPBBLpTH/ ^ 
I CAN'T BELIEVE 
I LOOKED AT 
THAT/ EW' EW.1 /
EWWW, LOOK / V 
THIS BUG IS ( 1UCKKK
EATING ANOTHER >-----|)___,
Bus / y j
BLECCHH/ ) 'CK.' ICK. 
GROSS /
HACCKKHH; 
GNAACCK'
GREAT EXPERIENCES ARE
EVEN BETTER ______
WHEN THETRE /_- 
SHARED.
MAN. WAS THIS 
CAT A-PULTED/ 
HEE HEE HEE.'
HOW COULD YOU MISS THAT? 
IT WAS RIGHT TO YOU.'
YOU THROW 
TOO HARD/ J ( WRE K RIOT,
JP V HOBBES.
WOW, PERFECT jTHESE COLORS REAILS ARENT ENCUGH SO I HAVE TO MIX S^ME TO GET 
THE SPECIFIC HUES I NEEDSEE, HERE I START WITH A LAYER 
OF BROWN THEN I ADD OLWE 
GREEN AND SCRUB A LITTLE ORANGE 
AND YEliOW OCHRE INTO \F. FlNAlLY. 
I TOP IT WITH LIME GREEN. PURPLE, 
AND TAN.
IN FACT, \T 
DlDNT EVEN 
GET ON THE 
RUNWAY.
I GUESS YOU 
COULD SAH IT 
EXPLODED IN 
THE HANGAR.
1 THOUGHT I 
HAD A GREAT 
IDEA. BUT IT 
NEVER REAUY 
TOOK OFF.
YOU'O THINK THAT 
WOJLD BE A 
STANDARD COLOR 
IN A BIG SET 
LIKE THIS.

---------------------------------------------------

life id rtetuNn* MVff\K)^WW
mfwn^M ADygMTyees Smr9eub mvip unire
'/NfEP A PCACE ~1 
WHgRE I CAN 8E ^ 
AWJF...AF0R fRESS
Calvin and Ho--rnby Bill Watterson
1 GET IME FEELMG 
WERE WAS NO RIGHT 
ANSWER. TO WAT 
QUESTION.
\
I SORE UKE OtoCOLATC. 
F(K>SYH> SUGAR BOMBS.1 
LOOK HOW BROWN WE 
MILK GETS
TO SEE SOtAEWttt 
WBRD LOOK AT TOE 
NUTRmoNAL INFORMATION 
ON WE BACK PANEL
JLVm. COME CUT FRtA 
EVER RE HIDING 
WO TAKE  BA.TH.'
 W HEAR WE, CRN IN?/ I MEAN NOW.'
IF HE UOUERS, UM..UU... 
.HEHHEH...
WHO WRITES 
TOESE DUMB 
WINGS NtMM?
*' wow.' I JUST SAM 
WE FIRST ROBIN OF 
j SPRING/ CALL TUE 
fcWSPAPER. QUICK /
I
HAUA.' a front page 
WRITE up; a COHMEMORATWE 
PLAQUE.1 A CWIC CEREMONt' 
AU-FR ME.' HOORM.' 
HOORM/ .
OU BOV/ SHOULe I IUT WE 
IRIZE MONEH IN A TRUST WNe. 
OR BLOW IT All AT ONuE?HAW! 
I uANT BELIBIE I eIe IT.'
COUNuS LIBRARYr yds, 
0O y(CW VAME MAY BOOKS OU HOMEMADE BOWeS?
TU ATS WHAT I SAmO. I 
NEEe A BOOK TMAT L\STS 
SVJIIUES ANe GWES STEIB1-5TEI \HSTRUuT\OHS 
FuR. BUILeING, RlGG\UG, 
AMe eETONATING THEM.
\
WEH VMAT ABOUT 10UR 
OWER BRANuHES? eONT 
THEY HAVE ANS BOOKS 
LIKE WAT?
tCtg Get
BOV. AND PEOPLE WONDER. 
YU KIDS PONT READ.^,
I

---------------------------------------------------

THE FAR SIeEBy GARY LARSON
My baby'5 lefi'rny l:ly pad _
* my both deep-f^ed, J
X Oat f Le s a\\ day and n/hen gor)e
they'M 5f;cK me m 'formaldehyde.. 0V\, goffAe Qreeeoeeens, 1 aot 
greens real \^t0oaaaci .
Gus saw them when he crested the hill: snakes. 
Three of them, basking on the road. 
Probably diamondbacks.
pA-b9kfi
* /zkz9,z?7 *DDYH&4 6bF *& 6b08z6(8z? 
8A?O0Ol 0O8w &Akb ( 
O0lb89(?z ) 6z b(szO8 
UwO, (OF8b0Ol 8bz?zc1 
. Ow8b0Ol 8bz?zc
6zII7 8b(8c1 8?Az7 
9?H U?z10/zO87 ,A8 
0 ?zkw99zO/ 8b(8
TG" erady e fo
(OF6(FH
bzF7 bzFcOwOz w' 
8b(8 ?wO(IU ?z(3
l(O 6(18bz 
-?z(8z18 U?z103
/zO8 w'8b01wOu
?z9z9,z?7 '?2zOU17 9?H 
?z(l(O*& 5Y Fz(?1 wIU
w' kwA?1z b01 9z9w?F 01O8 
6b(8 08 wOkz 6(1 6z 
9A18,z AOUz?18(OUC 
0Ol w' b01 9zO8(I 
I(U1z17 Ow8 C 
kwO/z9O0Olc jSgSft
('8z? (II7 
8b01 kwAO8?F 
w2(1 ,A0I8 ,a 
8bz 'w?9z?IF 
FwAOlHHH $ C
Cnivl!sp gs LIT cgL kgv 
kvgn!p cn9 nvgSgl kgs m 
nvuvl7AL guuTsv! cv c 
rE Pt'z (,wA8 Suu1n 
b01 ?wIz 0O 
0?(Ol(8zHHH
Fz17 &*?H 
2A18 8w 
,zCwO8mz 
&('z&0/,H
,z?O 0zH t /wOc8 lz8 08j 
6zcsz kwwUz?(8z/ 'AIIF 
AMt8b 8bz 0Osz180l(80wO1C 
'AIIFy
kwsz? AU 
Ow8b0Ol?kAz
90180Ol
zFz1H
"fhwEt.r'h "dhhdyh,d
8A?O 8bz9 wsz?7 9(fz1w9zC 
8bzFcIIC 8A?O 8b0Ol wA8 w'
8b(8 0O8w Ow8b0Ol 8b(O
1w9z8b0Ol wA8 w' 1w9zC 
H H w\ 8b0Ol A2z-(sz
6 /fm . 8bz9H
8?A18 9z7 10?q 
0O U?0s(8z 
A'zH*-z8 
Y*- ,Akf1 'w? 
udPS I0fz 2 W*JH!S.j^
0 fOw6 
8b(87 ,A8 8bz 
U?z11 60II 
8A?O 8bz9 
0O8w &49zC 
ft 8b0OlH
p 212A0z1k(960lO szb0kIz 
I ?z8A?O1 '?w9 8bz ?(IIFH6z 6z?z 1w kIw1z /A?0Ol 
wA? U?0s(8z 9zz80Ol17 bz 
A1z/ 8w 8zII 9z0 6(1 8bz 
k(OC/w 1wO bz Ozsz? b(U
08 6(1O8 AO80I('8z? 
8bz bz(?0Ol1 8b(8 * 
'wAO/ wA8 bz (I?z(/F 
b(U ( kwAUI w' 1wO1 
bz cU 901Iz/ 9z C(l(0O
,A8 8bz?zc1 
Ow8b0Ol 0O 
8bz '0Iz17 
,z?OyzH
1(F
9(8),A82HHH0 
'w?:(sz 
b09H 0
kAz 
k(8kb 
0O 8b?w(8H
8b(8c1 9F ?zkw99zO/(80wO7 
10?C608bbwI/ (II FwA? 
6b08z6(8z? '0Iz1 U?w9 
8bz U?z11 y
'wV wOzH 6zc?z 
bz(/z/ 'w? i 
bw9z ,(11
UAf&H02Iy&8 
/wO8AOUz?C 
&8(OUb4A2 
?z(l(O 
kwAI/ ,z3
8?(F 9zHHH
I bz kwsz?CAU 
U0kf1 AU1UzzUH
I018zO 8w8b017 /Afzi $60II " 
/wAl 60I/z? ?z2w0O 8bz ?(kz 
'w? 1zO(8w? w' s0?l0O0( b'1w7 
bz Uw1z1 ( 9(2w? Oz6 8b?z(8 
8w 'w?9z? 0?(Ol(8z kwO1U0?3
(8w? wI0sz?H IH Ow?8bn
/zz/zz7 (?zO8 
FwA ?z(IIF 
kwsz?0Ol AU 
8bz kwsz?C 
AU)
wOIF 0' FwAc?z 8bzO 
kwsz?0Ol AU 6bF 8bz
(Ow8bz? k?09z7 kwsz?CAU) 
6b0kb 8bzFc?z y
y Ow8H  7
( kwsz?CAU w' 
6b(8) Ow,w/FR& 
(kkA1z/ 8bz 
kIw6O1 w' ( 
k?09z7 M'
6zII7 ( 
kwsz?CAU1 
( k?09zH
9*(F0
1zz8b(87 bzIU
kwIwOzI? FwA?1zI'H
Uz?90110wO 8w 
1zkA?z 8bz 
Uz?09z8z?710?H/zz /zz7 6bF k(Ox8 6z 
?A99(lz 8b?wAlb 
8bz kI0O8wO1 p 
'0Iz1) 8b01 BXXhi 
19(kf1 w' 
( kwsz?CAUy
O(b7 
bzc1 wI/ 
(OU1A9H 
0k(O
8(fz b09H
)Lb1 k4&?CAU (88?(k81 8bz 
(88zO80wO w' 9w?(I 
90/lz8 (0'wO1z /c(9(8wHHH
1 9z(O6b0Iz7 0O I088Iz ?wkfCOw,w/F fOw61 
8b(8c1 6bF <
6zOzzU  
bz(?0Ol1 Til
FwA fOw67/Afz7 
0' 60I/z? lz, 
,(kfyO8bz 
?(kz7 08 kwwU 
,z(?z(IwUC 
Uw?8AOd8FHHH
60I/z? fOw61 ?w,, 01 
6z(f Ow6H bzkwAIU 
,Iww/F b09 ,(/IF 0O 
8bz U?279(?F7 8z(?0Ol 
8bz /z9wk?(80k U('8F 
_ (U(?8HHH
(O/ 0' bz I4&z1 
(O/ ?AO1 (& 
(O 0O/zUzO/zO8 
&4 9Akb 8bz 
,z88z? lAz11 
6bw ,zOz'081 
'?w9 08(II
6b(8
'(k81
(?z
8bw1z7
1zO(8w?)
6z1bwAIU 
b(sz bz(?0Ol1 
099z/0(8zIF 08c1 
809z 8w lz8 (II 
8bz '(k8& d WT!
8bz UzwUIz 
w' s0?l0O0( 
&* ?
FwAc?z ?0lb8 
Iz8c1 (1f ( 
U(?8C809z 
kwA?0z? 8w 
1b?z/ 8bz9
-44Ul4U I 
8bz1z '0Iz1 
kwAI/ /z18?wF 
8bz U?z10/zO811
89 1bwkfz/ 
1bwkfz/
Fz17 -z8?z(/F 'w? 6b08z C 
6(8z?7 'wIf1 C( 1bwkf0Ol 
18w?F w' (kkwAO80Ol 
0??zlAI(?080z1 (OU 
0O(UU?wU?0(8z 
9zz80Ol1 zO2wF 29
kwIwOzI7 0 UwO8 
lz8 kbAkf ?w,,H 
bz kwU18w ,09,w 
9(1&(-z17 ,A8 
0O&0181bz/0/O8 
lw $kw08(I$HHH 6J
/zOF zsz?F3
8b0Ol 9z(O 
b(sz FwA zsz? 
kbz(8z/ wO FwA?
bzII7 8b(8c1 
8bz k(?O(I 
z>A0s(IzO8 
w' $0 /0UO 
0Ob(Iz$ 6bF 
/0/Oc8 bz 2A18 
/w 6b(8 9w18 
9zO Uw) \
6 1zz 8bz?zc&wU 8bz /0''z?zOkzcH6bF /wz1 
08 1A//zOIF 
1zz9 I0fz 
8bz kIw8bz1 
b(sz Ow 
z9Uz?w?)
wf(F7 6zcsz /zk2UzU 
8w ?zIz(1z 8bz '0Iz1H 
8bz kwAO8?F k(O 
Ow6lz(?AU'w? ( 
8bz 9w18 U4du:- 
0O>A0?F0O b018w?FHHH
6b0kb 60'z7
*& 6b(8) kwIC 
1 wO zI c
'w?l0sz 9z 'w? 
(1f0Ol7 'wIf17 ,A8 , 
6b(8 zV(k8IF /w G 
FwA b(sz 8w 1bw6 
'w? (II FwA? 9wO8b1 
w' 9(OIF $/0ll0Ol^) 
y O(/(H 0UH
8bz?zc1H Ow 8bz?z 8bz?zH 
081 (O (kkwAO80Ol 18w?FH 
lw bw9z 8w W/A? '(90I0z1H 
8bz?z (?z Ow UAI08z?1 
w?z99F18w,z6wO 
bz?z 8w/(FH ,---------------
M 6wAI/ I0fz 
01 08 1 8w1zz9F 
8?Az) p f0U (l(0OHHH , 
8bz 
z99F
U(?8) 0
0O16(U7 ,F ,?z(f0Ol ( 
'z6 I(61C(OU lz880Ol 
k(Alb8- FwAxsz ,zkw9z 
( 9AI8090II0wO(0?z k(O/03
/(8z 'w?8bz AH1H 1zO(8z
8sz(&fzU 8b0& 
>Az180wO ,z'w?z7 
,A80 lw88((1f 08 
(l(0OC608b FwA? 
Uz?90110wO7 w' 
kwA?1z7 kwIwOzIHHH
FwA fOw67 kwIwOzI7 0' 
FwA b(UO8 ,zzO 0O8bz 
6?wOl UI(kz (8 8bz 
?0lb8 809z7 8w/(F FwAc/ 
,z2A18(Ow8bz?w,C 
1kA?z zVCw''0kz? I0s0Ol 
w'' FwA? UzO10wOHHH
IS THIS A GREAT COUN- <50TRY OR WHAT? '(?H

---------------------------------------------------

!Hu FAR SIeEBy GARY LARSON
INSTITUTE FOR 
THE STUeY OF 
EMOTIONAL STRESS
On what was to be his last day on the job, Gus is 
caught asleep at the switch.Ok, Johnson  weve got a deal. Well let your 
people and my people work out the details.
ANDER5(
SCHOOL F
sDDea1vD.D
Vrxa! has 
four rooms!.. But 
xs-e you safe we 
can a. f-ford HWell, scratch No. 24. He did pretty good, though 
right up to the jet engine test."
The evolution of Medusas hairTapeworms in a cows stomach
Well, Donald  forgot your sun block, I see.Suddenly, and to Rodneys horror, the police arrived 
with nerd-sniffing dogs.
Vincent Van Tantor
6F.T .HOWTR "joe EGISWW.. S.mefsj-l,(LU'
mW *<<-&/ -et )&(**'-r/ JI3QTUEC/Ty
f 0ls,qO/JE !j,a>T>
\yiO'JU)Lci-I CountyTrvrtiit
/fj toesrrgtoi
lu. CuiiJToUAA^P I SA^e-Tvt U(JTi 
Tlte ffE( l'He KUDltfPi 
JJQ (lui'rl lis, THE Oa/lt,! ft 
t>0Z(L SlAlS- /d&NOis gisM*wi 
e9j_rJ  A HlS SiOFUL. Si-Adi!
3ob 1 A S.>t> T ^bL>^-o
c-Ait iT t
cevei Dio Vou /1 bkPBCFA, c
pgulP kfv 3S pBYH5G
loouuD \w\g so ! I
Exp ^ , /  y
^7 \tt's J^T fl WE*TH|trtW / 
rtfc's riiT i6Ht
-----^F^Uog MUST \
Ts Srote THC/
foiZ&iE TH& gPPBvp TlMQ pI IsxmB5 woy
u/^vr [fa 1xmfv] q' kKB r b1rI
*a6T*au(
GT^'I' f/'SEM rRfDEB GF m
V ifcJ ^ sEdoti^aT SEP.
/1 Tkidu w'll faoUC To oj^E-ELioii...
rA1
fc A TmsC 
ScHoolUlSlfi /

---------------------------------------------------

LOOKING FOR AN APARTMENT?
E.S. MANAGEMENT CURRENTLY HAS APARTMENTS AVAILABLE IN 
BOTH THE NORTH OAKLAND AND SHADYSIDE AREAS. IF YOU ARE 
LOOKING FOR QUALITY HOUSING IN A WELL-MAINTAINED BUILDING, 
PLEASE GIVE US A CALL.
795-5845
NORTH OAKLAND
218-222 NORTH CRAIG STREET
1-BEDROOM APARTMENTS (SUITABLE 
FOR TWO PEOPLE). RENOVATED, NEW 
WINDOWS, NEW KITCHENS, NEW 
BATHROOMS, CENTRAL AIR, NEW 
APPLIANCES, BUZZ-IN ENTRYWAY, 
LAUNDRY IN BUILDING, OFF-STREET 
PARKING AVAILABLE. SOME 
AVAILABLE FOR MAY AND SOME FOR 
THE FALL.
$525-550 PER MONTH + UTILITIES.
4-BEDROOM APARTMENTS. LARGE 
RENOVATED 4 BEDROOM UNITS, ALL 
THE SAME AMENITIES AS ABOVE. 
$1,100 PER MONTH + UTILITIES.
SHADYSIDE AREA
BELLEFONTE AND ELMER STREET
BEAUTIFULLY RENOVATED 2-BEDROOM 
APARTMENTS. JUST FINISHED REHAB., ALL 
NEW KITCHENS, INCLUDING DISHWASHERS 
AND G/D, NEW WINDOWS. STEEL DOORS. 
CENTRAL AIR, JUST ONE BLOCK FROM 
WALNUT, LAUNDRY IN BUILDING.
$795 + UTILITIES.
5752 ELLSWORTH AVENUE
HUGE (1500 SQ. FT.) 3-BEDROOM, 2 BATH, 
NEWLY RENOVATED, CENTRALAIR, NEW 
KITCHEN. BUZZ-IN ENTRYWAY, LAUNDRY IN 
BUILDING, FORMAL DINING ROOM.
$1,100 + UTILITIES.
LARGE 2-BEDROOM APARTMENTS WITH THE 
SAME AMENITIES AS ABOVE. $795 + UTILITIES.
MANY OTHER APARTMENTS AVAILABLE. CALL WITH YOUR NEEDS. 795-5845.
'Pvpy\,
682-7272
LARGE IIZZA WITH 
ONE TOIIING2
LARGE IIZZAS WITH 
ONE TOIIING EAuH
'  $5.99+ TAX$10.00+ IAX
CALL US FOR LARGE ORDERS FOR YOUR GROiJP OR ORGANIZATION. WE CAN HANDLE 
ANY SIZE ORDER AND DELIVER IT TO YOUR MEETING PLACE. ORDER FOUR OR MORE 
LARGE ONE TOPPING PIZZAS AND GET THEM FOR ONLY $5.00 EACH PLUS TAX.
BOTTLE CAPS + SEAT BELT CLASPS + INNER TUBE TIRE =THE GREEN BELT
BOTTLE CAPSINNER TUBE TIRE
SEAT BELT CLASPS
NOW YOU CAN HAVE FASHION AND FUNCTION 
WITH A CONSCIENCE IN A PRICE RANGE THAT EVEN 
LEONA WOULD JUMP AT; INTRODUCING,
THE GREEN BELT
BY BANKS & BLAND
TO ORDER CALL 1-800-2-EC0L0CY
326 46 5
OR SEND CHECK OR MONEY ORDER
TO: THE GREEN BELT 
P.O. BOX #10207 
PITTSBURGH, PA 15232
QUANTITY
BE SURE TO INDICATE SIZE
XS SM M L XL XXL 
()()()()()() 
PRICE POSTAGE
+
TOTAL PRICE
X I $19.98$2.50
Apartments Available in the 
Oakland and Shadyside Areas
Efficiency, 1, FA and 3 Bedroom 
Furnished Apartments 
Laundry Facilities 
Wall to Wall Carpeting 
Security Building
H&P Real Estate 
682-1519
7am - 5pm  Monday thru Sunday
GRAeUATESMonday, April 18
Based on Fall 1994 class status
4md/ 5md YEAR SENIORSMonday, April 18
JUNIORSTuesday, April 19
Wednesday, April 20
ALL OTHERSThursday, April 21
All students should register during Registration Week if they wish 
to enroll for Fall 1994. If you wont be returning (for reasons other 
than graduation), submit an Application for Withdrawl or Leave of 
Absence (marked Fall 1994) to the Office of the Registrar, Warner 
Hall 201.
All eligible students will have received an email message sent to 
them, the week of March 21, explaining the registration process. A 
Registration/Add/Drop form Is enclosed In each Fall 1994 Schedule 
of Classes, available at the Sklbo Information Desk, outside the CFA 
Dean's Office and inside the main entrances to Baker Hall and 
Doherty Hall.
Brought to you from the Office of the Registrar, Warner Hall 201.268-2004
HOW TO REGISTER
1. Pick up a Fall 1994 Schedule of Classes with Registration/Add/Drop (HAD) form inside.
2. Plan course selections and alternatives with your advisor, and obtain your advisors approval on the RAD. Many advisors 
will extend office hours during Registration; contact yours for specific information. RAD forms without advisor approval will 
not be processed.
3. Go to the departments teaching the course(s) In which you wish to register on your registration day(oraftei), between 
9:30 am and 4:00 pm. The department will enter the course(s) directly into your schedule on the Student Information System 
and sign approval on the RAD. Remember that if you are on a wait list" for a course, you are not registered for the course; 
you must add the course later (if approved).
4. Return the completed, signed RAD form to your department. The goldenrod copy is yours to keep.
P.S. Approximately one week after Registration Week you will receive confirmation of your course schedule in the mail. 
P.P.S. Your department may conduct a pre-registration" prior to Registration Week. Theyll send you instructions if necessary.
02287623

---------------------------------------------------

DIVERSIONS
Munwi.l oxomwnrn !.am.ns, m.gwi
Bs TARAZANE
Diversions Co-Editor
During Carnival this year, 
Scotch n Soda has chosen to en
tertain us with the intriguing, 
mystical play, Nemeses. With over 
30 students involved, this is a 
major Scotch n Soda production, 
one that should be well worth 
seeing. Written by Robert Igo, a 
senior math/computer science 
major, and music composed by 
Jeffery Kunins, a junior social 
and decision science major, the 
creation of Nemeses truly exem
plifies the diverse talents of 
Carnegie Mellon undergradu
ates. Created over the course of 
the year, the score is a mix of 
styles and the writing borrows 
from the fantasy writers of our 
day.
The play focuses on the village 
of Daulglenn, a magical land be
ing destroyed by the evil demon 
Teiivio (Andrew Folmer, senior 
chemistry major). Teiivio, al
though sly and cunning, was im
prisoned for 300 years by the pow
erful Barnan (Michael Keating, 
sophomore social and decision 
science major). Once Barnans
bond breaks, Teiivio is free to 
wreak havoc again. Barnan, with 
the help of Kara (Cheron Cowan, 
freshman architecture major), 
trains Dean (Juan Rivera, sopho
more drama major), a once 
crooked lawyer, to be the 
Daulglenns defender. Ulti
mately, Dean learns the true path 
to love and freedom as he trains 
to fight the battle of his life.
If this plot doesnt thrill you, 
then the staging and music of 
Nemeses certainly will. The sets 
are large and complex with finely 
sculpted backgrounds and even a 
working lift. The music is mod
em and includes riffs from an 
electric guitar. The actors are all 
relative ameteurs but the energy 
level is high and they should put 
on a good show.
Nemeses opens on Thursday, 
April 14, and plays until Sunday, 
April 17. All performances begin 
at 8 pm. General admission tick
ets are $5 ($4 with a valid CMU 
ID) and can be purchased 
throughout the week at the Skibo 
Information Desk, or at the door 
on the night of each show. How
ever, seats are limited, so get 
your tickets now.
Getra edydf 
oCtonrivdf lind 
!dspiag sv ped 
riLsyI Tsyasac 
ktCCdda Gedysa 
saI ksyi Gipe 
ryiped sv 9diiS
mit uv o7Cpivpvc 
rsyyity miCCsgdyv 
AtEPa sodf 
'tve zivoef 
ktCCdda GedyS
saf kedyta 
ktrsaf "imida 
zdivvf 'dydP 
!ydigdCf'da 
hCvdaflspp 
w 7gedvfsaI 
'sydI hEdyes7v 
vpyind s EsppCd 
.tvd ia Gotpoe,aF 
GtIsFv Nemeses.
.Event
 ' ' HMQfl
TimePlace
Thursday
Buggy Design Competition10 am - 2 pmGym
T-Shirt Design Competition2:30: pm-3:30 pmSkibo Wherrett Room
Opening Ceremonies: Bagpipers4:30 pmComer Stage
Whiskey Tango, guitar and violin virtuosos5 pm - 6 pmComer Stage
Kiltie Band5:30 pm - 6:30 pmTent
AB Movie: M6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm, 12 amDoherty 2210
The Bloomfield 5, cool jazz music7 pm - 8 pmCorner Stage
Drama Dept: Saturday, Sunday, Monday8 pmKresge Theatre, CFA
Scotch 'N' Soda: Nemeses8 pmSkibo Ballroom
David Kinne, rock and roll comedy with an edge8 pm - 9 pmTent
The Broken, rock band9 pm -12 amThe Tilted Square, Skibo
R amelle MaCoy, hypnotist9 pm -10 pmTent
Ticket sales for rides end?il:15 pm
Rides close 
Midway doses
11:45 pm
12 am
Preliminary Sweepstakes Races7 am -12 pmTech & Frew Streets
Alumni Tent8 am- 11 amFrew Street
Midway opens11 am
5017 Forbes AvenueAlumni Open House12 pm - 4 pm
Color Photo Souvenir Buttons1 pm - 5 pmMidway
Belly, alternative rock1 pm - 4:30 pmThe Cut (Tent if rain)
Classes of '93 and '89 Happy Hour4 pm - 7 pmPanther Hollow inn
AB Movie: Wayne's World 26 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm, 12 amDoherty 2210
Roger Gillen, acoustic folk-rock6 pm - 7 pmCorner Stage
Drama Dept.: Saturday, Sunday, Monday8 pmKresge Theatre, CFA
Scotch 'N' Soda: Nemeses8 pmSkibo Ballroom
Carlos Alazraqui, comedian8 pm - 9 pmTent
House Jacks, a capella in your face9 pm -10:30 pmTent
Ticket sales for rides end10:15 pm
Rides close10:45 pm
Midway closesIt pm
Saturday
Final Sweepstakes Races7 am -12 pmTech & Frew Streets
Alumni Tent8 am -11 amFrew Street
Midway opens11 am
CFA Lawn & The MallClasses of '89 & '93 Reunion Picnic11:30 am
Strykers Posse, roots-rock reggae12 pm -1 pmTent
CMU Jazz Choir1 pm - 2 pmCorner Stage
Varsity Club Reception1 pm - 3 pm5017 Forbes Avenue
Third Annual Residence Life Reunion1 pm - 3:30 pmWest Wing Rec. Room
Alumni Open House1 pm - 5 pm5017 Forbes Avenue
Drama Dept.: "Saturday, Sunday, Monday"2 pmKresge Theatre, CFA
Women's Lacrosse: CMU vs. Wheeling Jesuit2 pmGosling Stadium
High Voltage, pure Pittsburgh hard rock2 pm - 3 pmTent
Frankenstein, infamous, funk, rock groove3 pm - 4 pmComer Stage
ms.lum, intelligent, corky alternative4 pm-5 pmTent
Distinguished Gentleman, R&B a capella5 pm - 6 pmCorner Stage
Midway closes6 pm
AB Movie: Little Rascals6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm, 12 amDoherty 2210
Closing Ceremonies7 pmThe Cut (Tent if rain)
Ticket sales for rides end7:30 pm
Rides close8 pm
Dr ama Dept.: Saturday, Sunday, Monday8 pmKresge Theatre, CFA
Scotch 'N' Soda: Nemeses8 pmSkibo BaEroom
Drew Carey, comedian8pm-9pmTent
Brlls mo f.zzlr 
u.xawv.l ixowfn
By TINA L. URSO
Tartan Contributing Editor
This year, Carnivals musical fare appears to be at least as 
entertaining and diverse as any of the recent years past. With 
acts from jazz to acoustic folk rock to reggae to the everambiguous alternative sounds, theres sure to be something 
out there for just about everyone.
The headlining band this year, Belly, promises to be entertain
ing as well. Fronted by former Throwing Muses guitarist Tanya 
Donnelly, Belly creates a sound that is as soft and dreamy as its 
name, a connection Donnelly says was intended. She describes 
the bands sound as soft, warm, and female, but at the same 
time ... visceral, the sort of sound thats sure to sound great 
floating across campus during their performance Friday after
noon on the Cut.
Donnelly, who spent six years with the Throwing Muses before 
leaving in 1991, was well known for her provocative and dreamy 
guitar sound, but did not get much of an opportunity to pen her 
own music. This, coupled with a movement towards a more poporiented sound are what prompted Donnelly to step down.
Another of Donnellys well noted accomplishments is her 
collaboration with The Pixies Kim Deal on The Breeders, who 
produced two albums and who have recently become very popu
lar on the college/alternative music scene.
Donnellys current band was a result of a phone call from two 
old childhood friends, brothers Tom and Chris Gorman, who had 
been busy making a name for themselves on the local Newport 
RI scene, and who were eager to form a musical trio. Also 
collaborating on their album Star were bassist Fred Abong, slide 
guitarist Chick Graning, and violinist John Douglas. All this 
recent collaboration has resulted in continued results for Donnelly 
and the band, with a recent debut single and video, Feed the 
Tree.
If youre one for deep and dreamy music, or if youve just been 
a fan of past Donnelly projects, be sure to catch Belly this Friday 
from 1-4:30 pm.
1993 Sire Records Company
9ed otmdy tb TdCCPFv Cspdvp kKf Star.
urlmwi ioairxm -oxrn
By DANIEL FREY
Tartan Photographer
After being forced to listen to 
people playing rocking tracks 
from The Commitments over and 
over, or the unfortunate moment 
I listened to The Proclaimers, I 
had become quite worried about 
the future of Celtic music. The 
thick and flowing Scottish 
brogues of The Proclaimers didnt 
seem to belong to the music of 
Otis Redding. In fact, it seemed 
closer to a glimpse of hell. There
fore, I was quite relieved when I 
learned that Andy Stewart was 
coming to town, performing with 
Gerry OBieme.
Stewart has been recording and 
performing traditional Scottish 
music for many years. His perfor
mance last Thursday at Graffiti 
was a welcome chance to hear 
some authentic Scottish music, 
which often is hard to find in this 
city. Stewart established himself 
singing for the Scottish group 
Silly Wizard, one of the best 
Celtic groups playing during the 
'80s.
Unfortunately, without the in
credible instrumental talent that 
was supplied by members of Silly 
Wizard, Stewarts performance 
was missing something... energy. 
This can be fatal to any concert, 
no matter how good the material 
selected.
The stories he told, the songs 
he chose failed to break the over
whelming sense of boredom that
the concert provoked.
The addition of OBeirne of the 
group Patrick Street didnt help 
either. His guitar playing, al
though accomplished, never even 
approached the liveliness that one 
expects in Celtic music. OBeime 
also played material that he had 
written for his and Stewarts col
laborative album. This material 
came to the ear with a misty, slow 
adult contemporary sound that 
further called the listener to the 
land of nod. It was the style that, 
as an avid listener of folk music, 
I find myself making excuses for, 
trying to convince people that tra
ditional music is anything but 
dull. But OBeimes music had 
me longing to be elsewhere.
The only song that even ap
proached the energy that I had 
hoped to see was the song he 
played for the encore. It was a 
little late by then.
The only thing that was good 
about the concert was the venue, 
Graffiti. It has consistently 
brought in a wide variety of mu
sicians, and it also is one of the 
few places in the city that consis
tently brings in folk musicians. 
The only thing that redeemed the 
experience is the hope that a bet
ter performance will be coming
Stewart and OBelrne 
receive 11/2 out of 4 notes

---------------------------------------------------

L10Thi T.xt.-  !.x-iyui aiIIf-  11 ApxuI 1994
Thursday, April 14
M
A fascinating story of a child-killer hunted 
in the streets of Berlin, this cinematic masterpiece 
features the talents of Gustav Grundgens and 
Peter Lorre. Filmed in the 1930s, this early piece 
of controversy is in German, so all you multilinguals 
take note.
This film, directed by Fritz Lang, is a daz
zling display of cinematic skills. It is considered a 
modern classic that involves many unusually con
temporary styles and ideas. A wonderful Thurs
day movie for the psychotic next door.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Friday, April 15
Waynes World 2
Two older gentlemen in wigs are featur ed in 
this fascinating story of two younger gentlemen in 
wigs. Yes, children, Wayne (Mike Myers) and 
Garth (Dana Carvey) return in this cinematic 
masterpiece to organize the mega-concert 
Waynestock and hang around with Kim Basinger 
and Olivia DAbo. Jim Morrison(Michael Nickles) 
and the Watermelon Guy (Bobby Slayton) appear 
in cameo roles as well as Chris Farley and Harry 
Shearer of Saturday Night Live fame. Comedys apopping in Waynes World 2.
This contemporary work is considered a 
modern classic. Directed by Stephen Surjik and 
produced by Lome Michaels, Waynes World 2 is in 
English with English sub-titles, so all you 
unilinguals take note.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Saturday, April 16
Little Rascals
Spanky and the gang star in the modern 
masterpiece that launched their short careers. 
The movie is full of the wit and whimsy of the 
Depression, featuring politically correct charac
ters such as Buckwheat and the cow-licked Al
falfa. Comedyll be a-popping when these little 
shavers get moving. Unfortunately, a dog with 
black eyes plays an important part in this films 
dramatic plot.
Anything with the Little Rascals in it has to 
be wonderful. A suggested movie for all those with 
fond memories of black-and-white television.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Sunday, April 17
Death Race 2000
Imagine the United States of America in 
the near future. Then imagine five drivers who 
enter the Transcontinental Death Race. Then 
imagine them gaining points for each person they 
hit and kill. Imagine David Carradine playing a 
cyborg named Frankenstein who must kill 
Sylvester Stallone. Imagine Roger Corman direct
ing this movie. Imagine theres no heaven. Its 
easy if you try. Imagine seeing this film, and the 
fun you would have. Imagine that this modern 
masterpiece is in English with no subtitles; all you 
English speakers take note.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
By JOHN BIGGS
Hrwlrmmn Explorations wmoxrnnrn
By DAVID BAZELON
Tartan Staffwriter
I would like to share something 
personal with the readers of The 
Tartan. Aside from the fact that 
the Hewlett Gallery has always 
managed to provide some of the 
most delightful and thought-pro
voking art pieces I have ever had 
the chance to see on campus, I 
have multiple motives for ven
turing into the Gallerys doors. 
One of the strongest of these is 
the frequent accompaniment of a 
good friend who, without fail, 
seems to at least equal, if not 
surpass, my enthusiasm toward 
the pieces on display.
Due to the fact that I often 
write about the Hewlett Gallery 
for The Tartan, I am usually the 
one who first publicizes the fact 
that there is a new exhibit open
ing, although, to be fair, it is nor
mally my friend who informs me 
that he has already had the 
chance to see it.
What I find most remarkable 
about the Hewlett Gallerys most 
recent exhibit, Explorations: New 
Designs for the Stage, however, is 
that this is the first time one of
my friends has mentioned the 
exhibit to me before I was even 
assigned to write the review.
By now youre probably think
ing that such occurrences say 
little about the exhibit in ques
tion. However, for me, such 
subtleties are just enough to 
promise the difference between a 
good exhibit and a great one. Its 
like some ethereal sign that points 
to the Hewlett and says Hey, 
this one might be fun. Not being 
one to ignore ethereal signs, I 
went to see the exhibit and found 
that my friend was right.
The entire focus of the Explora
tions exhibit is the pre-production work for ventures into the 
dramatic arts. It is a collection of 
designs, sketches, and finished 
examples of costumes, props, 
scenery, and lighting plans that 
are both highly detailed and ex
tremely original.
Reflecting this seasons local 
productions, Explorations is not 
only a refreshing change from 
the usual art display, but it is 
also all the more effective due to 
the talented artists and design
ers who contributed to its assort
ment.
So why does Explorations work, 
and what makes it deserve my 
friends extraordinary attentive
ness? Most of the time it seems 
as if art is done for the sole pur
pose of its own single finished 
product.
Painters create a single work 
on canvas, sculptors isolate their 
forms into a single three-dimen
sional space, and dancers perfect 
their own talents so as to commu
nicate messages through body 
language.
How often, however, do we get 
to see the dancers practice ses
sions or the sketches the sculptor 
made when his ideas were still 
somewhat two-dimensional?
Furthermore, in a bigger pro
duction like a play or an opera, 
the number of little works that 
contribute to the final spectacle 
we witness is incredibly large. 
The careful detail that is incorpo
rated into each little work is ex
tremely generous, considering 
that most will not be seen alone 
by the public in any form.
This is why it is so wonderful to 
get a chance to see what factors 
went into a single production, 
and to be able to give more credit
to the craftsmanship of some of 
the artists who are not quite as 
celebrated.
I must further admit that it 
fills me with a childlike thrill to 
see such lavishly adorned minia
tures. To look into a little black 
box and see trees and chairs and 
tiny people always invokes a feel
ing of wonder in me as to how 
individuals could fashion things 
so small and still make them look 
so real. Its kind of like scenery 
you can fit in your pocket.
I feel that the greatness of the 
entire exhibit lies in the fact that 
one can look back at all the pro
ductions that have been seen in 
the last few months and break 
down each element of the entire 
product. It allows for an analysis 
of each of the elements of the 
product and gives one a new ap
preciation of the whole. In other 
words, go see this exhibit, you 
will not be disappointed.
The Hewlett Gallery is located 
on the first floor of the College of 
Fine Arts building and is open 
Mondays through Fridays from 
11:30 to 5 pm and on Saturdays 
from 1-4 pm.
Explorations deiEipv rtyn EP kWN sypivpv saI Idvigadyv saI 
otavivpv tb otvp7dvf .yt.vf Cigepiag .Csavf saI vodadyP byt .svp 
.ytI7opitavf iaoC7Iiag The Alchemist saI Romeo and Juliet. 
hE*dopv IdvigadI EP -oCtonrivd byt Cdbp/? Naa Dsyvtaf liaIP 
liCCdyf YI wdCEigf 9taP lCCdptf saI D7iv AsiyiL 9ed wdrCdpp 
HsCCdyP&v Explorations iv t.da ltaIsPv peyt7ge WyiIsPv byt 
44?60 pt 8 .(
All photos byKevin Chen/Tartan Photographer
PITTSBURGH 
HARRISBURG-PHILADELPHIA 
NEW YORK CITY
TORONTO. CANADA
BUFFALO. NY .^ROCHESTER. NY
^SYRACUSE. NY
CORTLAND. NY
TOBINGHAMTON. NY NEW 
ENGLAND.TOWANDA 1c
NEW YORK 
CITY
-SCRANTON WILKES 8
BARREC
ALLENTOWN 
WILLOW GROVE
Swim-Rmun 
RB-kkueRfoiradgti.W 
CHAMBERSBURG^ 
HAGERSTOWN. MDt
WASHINGTON. DC p 
TO ALL POINTS SOUTH
'HILADELPHIA 
KING OF PRUSSIA
1-800-444-2877
Live at New York University in the heart of Greenwich Village while 
you work, do an internship, or just enjoy summer in the city.
 Minutes from New Yorks business and cultural centers
 Apartment-style and traditional residences; single and double occupancy
 Outstanding sports-recreation facility
 Over 1,000 courses offered day and evening 
Housing available May 22-August 13 
For more information, call toll free1-80- ext 778
New York University Is an affirm atire action/equal opportunity institution.

---------------------------------------------------

Thi T.xt.-  !.x-iyui aiIIf-  11 ApxuI 1994LII
331/3 wxr.yn iomwi d.voiClub Hub
By DAN GOLDWASSER
Tartan Staffwriter
Although wacky, zany, and al
ways outrageous, The Naked Gun 
331/3: The Final Insult delivers 
laughs, but not as many as its 
predecessors.
While it is one of the 
funnier films I have 
seen this year, The 
flaked Gun 33 1/3 
doesnt live up to the 
precedent created by 
such films as The Na
ked Gun, Airplane!, 
and Hot Shots.
Leslie Nielsen re
turns as retired Lt.
Frank Drebin who is 
called upon by George 
Kennedy and O.J.
Simpson to help stop a 
terrorist plot to bomb 
the Academy Awards.
Priscilla Presley is also 
back to help Frank in 
his mission. Fred Ward (The 
Player) is Rocco, the convict who 
is masterminding the dastardly 
plot to destroy the Oscars.
As always, jokes and gags fill
Like thats any better! The num
ber just doesnt make sense.
The overall feel of the film is 
different. This could possibly be 
due to the fact that David Zucker
every scene, and if you blink you Since that made no sense, they 
may miss something. But not all of changed the title to The Naked 
the jokes work. Some fall flat, oth- Gun 33 1/3: The Final Insult. 
ers make you burst out laughing.
In the tradition of the original 
Naked Gun, many movie parodies 
abound, including The Untouch
ables, Star Wars, The Crying 
Game, and Jurassic Park to name did not direct this film; rather,
he produced it.
This is Peter 
Segals first feature 
film, and it shows. 
We should be thank
ful that we have' 
Zuckers writing and 
producing to help 
elevate this film 
above its directors 
abilities. However, 
it is still mediocre.
The film was fun 
to watch, but it is 
not worth paying 
more than a mati
nee price for.
1994 Paramount Pictures 
The Naked Gun 33 1/3 iv atr .CsPiag sp GO7iyydC wiCC 
kiads ztyCI(
a few.
People are also a smidgen con
fused about the title. To make it 
short, its original title was The 
Naked Gun331 /3: For The Record.
The Naked Gun 331/3 receives 2 out of 4 reels
Iafrorafram iomwi ramrxm.wan
Well, I hope everyone enjoyed their spring break. 
I was a little disappointed because I didnt really 
get to read many of the comics that have piled up, 
but thats okay because finals are just around the 
corner. On a lighter note, when I was in The Tartan 
office this week for a meeting, I was told by a fellow 
staff member to do some independents. Im not 
one to ignore reader response, so I decided to follow 
his suggestion. I began to wonder what indepen
dent book Id choose to review. Cerebus crossed my 
mind. Since thats in the middle of one of Dave 
Sims epic storylines, I figured I wouldnt under
stand it, so Id better stay away. Besides, I wanted 
to do something a little more underground. That 
immediately eliminated Teenage Mutant Ninja 
Turtles, even though I used to enjoy them. Bone 
also came to mind, but I figured that all the hype 
about the book would make me biased. Then I 
remembered a book that one of my friends used to 
always talk about. At that time, I never saw it 
before, but now, since I shop at a vastly superior 
comic shop, I finally got to experience Milk and 
Cheese.
As if it was a sign from God, Milk and Cheese's 
First 2nd Issue was released the very same week 
when I was searching for an independent book to 
review. It took me a while to figure out the bit about 
the First 2nd Issue, but I eventually caught on. 
Actually, this is the fifth issue. Before it there were 
four number one issues. No, its not a horrible 
gimmick like that of X-Men a couple years ago. 
Each issue was different, but just called something 
like Other #1 and Fourth #1. After I resolved 
this title confusion, I got down to the real reading.
On the technical side, I enjoyed the way Milk and 
Cheese was laid out. The one to four page comic 
strips are a great idea for a funny book. It kept the 
jokes fresh and also reminded me of Matt Greenings 
Life in Hell strips.
The paper was high quality, so it prevented the 
newspaper look 
that some black 
and whites have.
Writer and artist 
EvanDorkin is no 
Tod MacFarlene, 
but I have to say 
his artwork was a 
nice break from 
the over-processed art of the 
major companies.
Now to the im
portant stuff. The 
first three strips 
had me grinning, 
but when I got to 
the fourth,
Tricks are 
Treats!The com
edy was wild and 
insane, full of 
quirky sight gags 
and disgusting 
adventure s.
These dairy prod
ucts gone bad 
were escpecially 
hilarious when
Comic Book Chronicles
By Jason Andracki
they suddenly turned into innocent, lamb-eyed 
antagonists. I was literally laughing out loud. If I 
wasnt already lying on the floor, I know I would 
have been rolling on the ground with laughter 
when I read the panel with Milk and Cheese 
throwing cabbage to the little kiddies as treats. 
This is easily the funniest stuff Ive ever read in a 
comic book. They throw used condoms and cab
bages: who couldnt love that.
In addition to the hilarity of Dorkins comics, he 
also manages to work in some commentary. 
Through his Dairy Products Gone Bad, Dorkin 
addresses the fight against TV violence, mindless 
trend followers, and some other stuff I wont men
tion because I dont want to offend some members 
of our campus community. For the most part, Milk 
and Cheese is a comic filled with good, friendly, 
violent fun.
Before I sign off, Id like to thank Daniel Frey, the 
above-mentioned staff member, and Tom Abt for 
turning me to a comic that I probably would have 
continued to overlook. As Im writing this column, 
Im contemplating spending my upcoming pay
check to get the back issues of Milk and Cheese, 
plus a poster and t-shirt or two. These two guys 
warrant a second look.
On a final note, I have to say one thing indepen
dent books have on the major companies is that I 
can get a copy of every Milk and Cheese book to 
date at the cover price.
They may not all be first printings, but I really 
dont care how much a book is 
worth. You cant pick up an issue of 
Sandman and order an entire run 
from the orderform in the back of 
the book, but you can do that and 
more thanks to Slave Labor Graph
ics. I think Marvel, DC, Image, and 
the others could learn a lot from 
these independent publishers.
Jason Andracki is a freshman 
professional writing major who en
courages reader response to his col
umn.
Send responses to : The Tartan, 
Skibo Room 50 c/o Diversions, 
Comic Book Choronicles.
Monday, April 11
Ton o bricks 
The Decade
Tuesday, April 12
N.K.O.T.B.
doors open at 6:30 pm
Metropol
Sandy Dowe & Sonny
Barbato
The Balcony
Dave and Shari 
Nicks Fat City
Stained Jeans 
The Decade
Yo La Tengo 
Rosebud
A Tribute to Muddy Waters 
with Jimmy Rogers,
Pinetop Perkins, Big Daddy 
Kinsey, & others 
Graffiti
Wednesday, April 13
NRBQ
Graffiti
Jazz Discovery 
The Balcony
Spencer Bohrem 
Decade
Thursday, April 14
WYEP 20th 
Anniversary 
Graffiti
Friday, April 15
WYEP 20th 
Anniversary 
Graffiti
Saturday, April 16
Stanley Jordan 
Grafitti
Airborne 
Nick's Fat City
Club Locations:
The Balcony
5520 Walnut St., 687-0110 
The Decade
223 Atwood St., 682-1211 
Graffiti
4615 Baum Blvd.,
682-8296
Metropol
1600 Smallman Ave.,
261-4512
Rosebud
1650 Smallman St., 261-2221 
Electric Banana 
3887 Bigelow Blvd.,
682-4210
Lucianos Coffeehouse 1023 
Forbes Ave.,
281-6877
Bloomfield Bridge Tavern 4422 
Liberty Ave.,
682-8611 
Nicks Fat City 
1601-1603 E.Carson St. 481- 
6880/1
By KAREN GRUNBERG
1994 Slave Labor Graphics
Milk and Cheese snd s eiCsyit7v Eydsn byt 
siavpyds otiov(
DietAid 30(H)
AS SEEN ON T.V. * SPRAY AWAY THE POUNDS
DietAid 3000 is the only breath spray which acts as an appetite 
suppressant, relieving hunger pangs and the mental desire to eat. 
This spray has a pleasant peppermint flavor.
 100% NATURAL
 Use With Current Diet  No Calories Per Serving
 Vitamin C  Easy To Use
 Convenient  Discreet
**ORDER TODAY**
Money Back Guarantee! Please allow 2-4 weeks for delivery 
ONLY $19.95 FOR A 3 MONTH SUPPLY 
(includes shipping & handling). Send cash, check or money order to: 
HEALTHCARE PRODUCTS 
3330 HILCROFT, STE. D-411 
HOUSTON, TX 77057
JAfalSfl
Thursday, April 21
Student Film Festival
Tis time once again for our annual student film 
festival, sponsored by the CMU Filmmaking Club. 
This exhibition of CMU film and video talent seems 
to be entertaining every year and always seems to 
pull a big crowd, so I probably dont have to convince 
you that you should go see this.
These films arent Spielberg, but theyre usually 
pretty cool. Anyway, you will probably know at least 
one person whos made a film that will be shown. 
This year, as every year, promises at least one great 
penis exhibition by an overconfident guy with a 
camera who feels he needs to show it off, and 
probably promises a lot of talent as well. You really 
should spend the dollar and come out and support 
all th non-slack, budding filmmakers in the CMU 
community. It should be well worth it.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Friday, April 22
Short Cuts
Winner of the Golden Globe award for Best En
semble Cast and Academy Award Nominee for Best 
Director, this Robert Altman film stars Andie 
MacDowell, Matthew Modine, Lily Tomlin, Tom 
Waits, Jack Lemmon, Lyle Lovett, and Buck Henry.
Based loosely on some of Raymond Carvers short 
stories, this film shows nine sets of characters in 
different stages of their lives trying to make sense 
of one another in the context of modern America.
This film was playing all March at the Playhouse, 
so if you missed it, you saved four bucks! What a 
deal! All these savings, and Lyle Lovett too! How 
could you not go to this film now?
At 5, 8:30 pm, and midnight.
Saturday, April 23
The Fugitive
So I guess there was this great spy show on TV a 
really long while ago called The Fugitive that Ive 
never actually seen, but I hear was pretty good. 
This film is supposed to be a filmic manifestation of 
the series, except it doesnt star the guy who origi
nally starred in the TV show, because he might even 
be dead now, I dont know. Instead, this film stars 
Harrison Ford as the wrongly accused Dr. Kimble, 
but hes supposed to be pretty good, even though 
hes not the real Dr. Kimble.
Youve probably seen Ford playing a spy guy 
before, so if youre wondering what this movie 
might be like, just try to remember what he was like 
before, except try and stick that memory into your 
memory of the original Fugitive series and youve 
got this movie, except this might have a better 
soundtrack. So if you liked The Fugitive series or if 
you like Harrison Ford, why not spend the buck?
At 5, 7:30,10 pm, and 12:30 am.
Sunday, April 24
Five Deadly Venoms
In the words of Bryan Lasley, the Sunday night 
king of trash movies: In this 1978 Shaw brothers 
classic, the Five Deadly Venoms combine forces to 
take revenge on the killer of their teacher or father 
or something. Lots of bleeding from the mouth and 
bone-crushing, hot-buttered kung fu action. The 
films statue blow to the blood-spraying head scene 
has got to be one of the most amazing celluloid 
moments of all time. Kurosawa, eat your heart out. 
This film is so good were showing it again.
And remember, this may be your last chance to 
catch Sunday trash before its gone! Dont miss your 
opportunity to utterly waste your last four quar
ters! Its Sunday, you deserve it.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
By TINA L. URSO
35 :
Student / Faculty
DISCOUNT AIRFARES 
TO EUROPE
Forbes Travel 
521-7300

---------------------------------------------------

ART
Annie Savian, Sarah OConnell, and Roberta 
Benaman have works on display at the Forbes 
Gallery through Sunday. Call 268-2081 for gal
lery hours or information.
Explorations, New Designs for the Stage,an
exhibition by the drama department, will be on 
display at the Hewlett Gallery until April 22. Call 
Petra Fallaux at x8-3877 for more information 
and gallery hours.
FILMS
M will be playing at DH 2210 this Thursday at 6, 
8,10 pm and midnight.
Waynes World 11 will play in DH 2210 Friday. 
Showtimes are 6,8,10 pm and midnight.
Little Rascals will be shown in DH 2210 on 
Saturday at 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Death Race 2000 plays in DH 2210 this Sunday 
at 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
MEETINGS
Come repair, revise, and revitalize your for
eign language skills at the international lan
guage tables held daily over lunch. Sponsored by 
the Modern Languages Department, all language 
tables are held in the Graduate Student Coffee
house, with the exception of the Russian Lan
guage table, held in the Faculty Dining Room. 
Times are as follows: Tuesdays: Russkii Chas and 
La Table Franaise at 12:30 pm; Wednesdays: La 
Mesa Espaola at 11:30 am ; Thursdays: Deutscher 
Stammtisch at 11:30 am; and Fridays: Bentoo 
Lunch o nihongo de at 12:30 pm.
The Hypnosis Research Group is sponsoring 
Learn Hypnosis and Change Your Life!, an 
ongoing workshop to learn hypnosis, relaxation, 
and meditation techniques in a group setting on 
Mondays at 7 pm at 4836 Ellsworth Avenue. A $1 
donation is requested. Call Bill King for more 
information at 276-1768.
The Carnegie Mellon Railroad Club holds its 
meetings Tuesdays at 6 pm in the Tartan loft. For 
more information, email db74 or jt3y.
Traditional Irish Set dancing classes take 
place every Sunday night from 7-9 pm in the 
Bellefield Building at University of Pittsburgh. 
Call 363-8686 for more information.
The Self Knowledge Symposium, a non-denominational student study group, provides a 
weekly forum for students inquiring into the mean
ing and purpose of life. Regular meetings are held 
Tuesdays at 7 pm in the Cathedral of Learning, 
room 236. For more information, call 343-1907.
The Womens Center Collective holds meet
ings every Sunday at 3 pm in the CMU Womens 
Center. If your group is interested in meeting in 
the center, call x8-3595.
Fear public speaking? Join the Whiskey Rebel
lion Toastmasters Club every first and third 
Wednesday at the Carnegie Library in Oakland 
from 7-8:30 pm. For more information, call 422- 
5361.
Jewish Law and Customs Class is held on 
Wednesdays at 7:30 pm in the Israel room (337) at 
the Cathedral of Learning and on Thursdays in 
Skibo 201 at 8 pm, free of charge. Call Rabbi 
Samuel Weinstein at 683-7770 for more informa
tion.
The Poetry and Fiction Workshop, sponsored 
by the University of Pittsburgh, meets every 
Wednesday at 7 pm in the first floor conference 
room of the Oakland Carnegie Library. The group 
is an open forum for writers and writers-to-be and 
includes Pitt and CMU students and alumni. For 
more information, call 421-8140.
Student Dormitory Council (SDC) holds meet
ings every Wednesday at 7 pm in the Wherrett 
Room. For more information, call x8-2114.
The Pterodactyl Speedway holds student read
ing series in Scotland Yard every other Thursday 
evening at 7 pm. Come out and support the local 
student writing community. Students interested 
in reading should contact Micki Kochanskyj 
(mk57) or Tina Urso (tu05). The next reading will 
be April 28.
A Rational Recovery support group for those 
with alcohol or drug problems meets every Friday 
at 7:30 pm. Meetings are free and held in Room 
205 of the Wightman Community Center Build
ing in Squirrel Hill. For information on this and 
other RR meetings in the Pittsburgh area, phone 
261-5363.
The Student Environmental Action Coali
tion meets every Sunday at 4:30 at the PennsylHEY, if you have my HP32SII, I 
NEED it back . Ill die without 
RPN ... Have mercy & take it to 
security please! 289745511
LCBased on your performance on 
Sat. I think Beta might keep you 
in mind if they ever need a good 
kicker for the football team 
Ha Ha
Poet? -
Am I looking at you?
Make yourself known!
- Deep deep Poet
Nat, the sawdust in the bearings 
didnt work...
GO SIG TAU BUGGY!
TOP TEN IN NINETY Fou... uh... 
ninety... uh... well, SOON, dammit 
GB GB GB GB GB GB GB !!
Thou shalt not covet thy...
...oh, nevermind.
Jim,
Did you know that you have TWO 
offices this semester?
I can do anything I want...
...Im a buggy driver!
 you know who you are, rf
Hey Theta Xi Man,
So youre not Indian (Yaghoobi)? 
Sorry. Are you ever going to talk to 
us? Were afraid to approach you. 
The two (very shy) who follow you
Snickerdoodle,
Happy Anniversary!
Love, Your Cuddlebug
Sonya,
You are just one giant turnip, 
puma
Dawn, you fence like a geeeeerl.
MB (or MM): Two consecutive nights 
only, huh? ES
Excuse me, do you know Alan 
Guttierez?
Randall:
YOU CAN GO NOW! All of us want 
you...
but we wouldnt mind Matt, Alex, 
Galoob or Marky S.
Kappa Prashanthi:
we KNOW how bad you wanted
SWEISTER!!!!!!!!!!
OK..lets get this right...we DROVE 
1400 miles to PCB and we are hang
ing out with CMU guys! WHAT IS 
UP WITH THAT???!!!!
OH my GOD! Its a moose or better 
yetMEESE!!!!!!!
- 6 hot chix on their way home from 
PCB
DG SabeenaRIDE THAT DONKEY BABY! 
love CRACK woman
Jeff,
Missouri sucks, but good luck from 
your roommate.
Will,
Happy Birthday 
-YBB
To tight delt, that wasnt a onenight stand was it? -Gary
Kappa Tracy Bach:
You can handcuff me anytime!!
I leave the enchiladas in your able 
hands. You guys ARE the shit! 
Thanks for playing!
B Zorn H
Tony has a greasy crotch!
Andrew, if I compliment your body 
will you hold it against me?
Derek, I love YOUR peanut butter 
legs! Love from the Calendar girl
vania Environmental Resource Center at the cor
ner of Forbes and Craig, third floor. SEAC is 
composed of activists and organizers who fight for 
greater awareness of the current state of the 
environment and for preservation of this deli
cately balanced ecosystem. Call 681-8300 for more 
information.
If you need to walk across campus late at 
night, let a trained student escort team accom
pany you. Call SafeWalk between 10 pm and 2 am 
seven nights a week at 268-SAFE (x8-7233). For 
more information, contact Ray Tseng at 682- 
3068.
Welsh language classes sponsored by the 
Celtic Society will be held in Porter Hall A19A 
on Wednesday evenings; beginners at 7:15 pm 
and advanced beginners at 8:30 pm. Call 521- 
6722 to enroll.
Women in Science meets every Wednesday from 
6:30 until 7:30 pm in the Womens Center. Con
tact Tara at x8-8010 or thin with questions.
Student Alumni Relations Council meets ev
ery Wednesday at 5 pm in the Alumni House 
Conference Room, 5017 Forbes Avenue. For more 
information, contact Kyra Salakas at x2-3067.
at 8 pm featuring Haydns Quartet in G minor, 
Op. 74, No. 3, Horseman, Samuel Barbers Quar
tet in B minor, Op. 11, and Beethovens Quartet in 
A minor, Op. 132. Call Joan Sher for more infor
mation at 624-4129.
River City Brass Band presents Boogie 
Woogie Bugle Boy this week on Friday at 8 pm 
at Carson Middle School in the North Hills, on 
Saturday at 8 pm the Palace Theater in Greensburg 
and Sunday at Pasquerilla Performing Arts Cen
ter at 3 pm. Call the box office for tickets or more 
information at 322-RCBB
at the Lutheran Univeristy Center. Call x682- 
6886 for more information.
St. Agnes Church, 3221 Fifth Ave offers the 
Traditional Latin Mass (Tridentine Mass) Sun
days at 8:30 am (Low) and 11 am (High), first 
Fridays of the month at 7:30 pm, and first Satur
days at 9 am. Confession and the Holy Rosary are 
offered 30 minutes prior to all Masses, approved 
by His Eminence Bishop Donald Wuerl. Call 766- 
0950 for more information.
RELIGIONSPORTS
THEATER
Flying Pig Theater is pleased to announce the 
addition of new faces to its improvisational com
pany, Reality Optional. The group will perform at 
the Artery on Saturday at 8 pm.
The City Theater presents From the Missis
sippi Delta, an autobiographical play starring 
jazz soloist and actress Etta Cox, runningthrough 
May If Call Sara Durkacs at 431-4400 for show 
times, tickets, and more information.
MUSIC
Compline, Prayer at the Close of the Day is
sung every Sunday at 9:30 pm at the Heinz Chapel. 
For more information, call 682-6886.
Mass Zenergy boldly goes where no club has 
gone before on Sunday nights at 9 pm. For more 
information and directions to this club in the Strip 
District, call 734-5549.
Sweet Honey in the Rock, a world renowned 
female a capella group, will perform at Soldiers 
and Sailors Memorial Hall on Saturday at 7 pm. 
Contact Lisa Shivley at (615) 322-5445 for more 
information.
A.T.S., a post-industrial urban rock/cow funk 
fusion, will perform at Nicks Fat City in the 
South Side on Thursday at 9 pm.
The Sher-Grisham-Chiu Trio will present a 
Romantic Festival featuring Brahms and Smetana 
on Sunday at 4 pm in the Levinson Hall at the 
Jewish Community Center in Squirrel Hill. Call 
the JCC Music Department at 521-8010 for more 
information or tickets.
The Tokyo String Quartet will perform a con
cert at Carnegie Music Hall on Monday, April 18
The Roman Catholic Chaplaincy celebrates 
Mass daily on campus at 12:30 pm in Skibo 39, 
Monday through Friday. Weekend Masses are 
celebrated at 10:30 am and 8 pm every Sunday in 
the GSXA Cooper Auditorium. For more informa
tion, call the Newman Oratory Center at 681- 
3181.
Ecumenical Holy Communion, sponsored by 
the Episcopal and Lutheran Campus Ministries, 
is held Wednesdays at 5 pm in the Heinz Chapel.
Tech House will host a weekly Bible Study at
7 pm on Thursdays. For more information, call x2- 
2484.
Shabbat at Hillel is held every Friday with a 
happy half hour (hors doeuvres) at 5:30 pm, 
services at 6 pm, and dinner following. RSVP by 
calling 621-8875.
Daressalam Islamic Center, located at 4100 
Bigelow Blvd., offers weekly congregational 
prayers at noon on Fridays. For more informa
tion, call 682-5555.
New Hope Christian Community Church
invites all students to join other young adults in 
contemporary, casual, and uplifting services on 
Sundays at 11 am in the Central Christian Church 
located at 134 N. Dithridge. For more informa
tion, call 621-6760.
The Church of the Ascension (Episcopal)
welcomes all students to services on Sundays 
with a Eucharist at 8:30 am, a college class at 9:30 
am, and morning worship at 11 am in the chapel 
located on the comer of Ellsworth and Neville. A 
Eucharist is also held on Wednesdays at 7 am. For 
more information, contact campus minister Brian 
VanderWel at 621-4361.
Prayer at the Close of the Day, sponsored by 
the Lutheran Campus Ministry, is held Sundays 
at 9:30 pm in the Heinz Chapel. This Sundays 
organist will be R. Craig Dobbins of the Presbyte
rian Church of Sewickley. For more information, 
call 682-6886.
Shadyside Presbyterian Church holds wor
ship service Sundays at 11 am and college class at 
9:45 am. Shadyside College Fellowship is on Fri
days at 6:30 pm. Contact Dan Moss or Annette 
Ediger at 682-4300.
The Lutheran University Center, located at 
4515 Forbes, invites you to join in an Episcopal 
Lutheran Shared Eucharist on Sundays at 11 am
The mens and womens tennis teams will j 
compete in the UAA Championships at Washing- | 
ton University this weekend in Missouri.
The womens lacrosse team is holding prac- ! 
tices for their spring season Tuesday and Thurs- j 
day nights on the turf from 7-10 pm and Wednes- i 
days on the Cut from 4:30-7 pm. Contact Astrid 
Rapp at 422-8130 or Danielle Proctor at 682-0492 j 
for more information.
The mens lacrosse team practices on Tuesdays ! 
and Thursdays from 7-10 pm on the turf. Contact [ 
Josh Marks at x8-3947 for more information.
The Catholic Alumni Club of Pittsburgh is 
sponsoring singles volleyball every Wednes
day at 8 pm at St. Edmunds Academy. Enjoy a 
rousing evening of volleyball and meet others for j 
only $3. Call 766-6574 or 341-4070 for more infor
mation.
The outdoor track teams will compete in the 
Hiram College Invitational Friday at 10 am.
NOTICES
The Dancers Symposium is holding its spring i 
performance, Ampersand, April 22 at 8 pm, April | 
23 at 8 pm, and April 24 at 7 pm in the Womens j 
Gym. Tickets can be purchased in advance or at j 
the door for $3.
An Eating Disorders Informational Group j
has been organized in the Counseling and Devel- j 
opment Center. Call x8-2922 for details on meet- i 
ings times.
Ceol M6r: Ancient Music of the Highland 
Pipers will be presented by the Celtic Society on  
Thursday at 8 pm in Porter Hall A21. Ceol ! 
or piobaireachd, is the classical music of the  
Highland bagpipes and probably had its origins in I 
the Gaelic airs of the ancient Celtic bards. World- i 
reknowned piobaireachd authority James McIn
tosh will give examples of the different kinds of 
tunes and tell some of the associated legends. For 
more information, call Greg Nelson at x8-7571.
Young People in Cuba Today, a lecture by 
Pavel Diaz Hernandez and Arleen Rodriguez 
Derivet, will be held tonight at 7:30 pm at the 
University of Pittsburgh in Forbes Quad 1 P 56. 
For more information, call 362-1408 or 682-2550.
Poet Dara Wier will speak Friday at 7 pm in the 
Adamson Wing, Baker Hall. The lecture is free 
and sponsored by the Creative Writing Visiting 
Writers Series.
