mak3
Volume 86. Issue 22 Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 13 April 1992
Chatham women protest SAE poster
By CHRISTIAN RESTIFO
Tartan Staffwriter & AMY POTTHAST
Tartan Features Editor
The festive atmosphere of Carnival was disrupted only hours before the opening Thursday afternoon when a group of women from Chatham College gathered on the Midway in front of SAEs Moby Dick booth in protest of the fraternitys Thar She Blows!!!Carnival party poster.The poster, depicting a smiling whale in a hot tub, includes the lower half of a mermaid protruding from the water. The mermaids hands are holding on to the sides of the tub, and the outline of her head in the water can be seen, implying that she is performing fellatio on the whale.Blaire Freed, a senior English, history, and political science major at Chatham College, said that the posters were placed on the windows of Chathams Fickes Hall, and slipped under the doors of two Chatham dormitories, Dilworth Hall and Woodland Hall.The posters are offensive, degrading, demeaning to women, pornographic, lewd, lascivious ... take your pick, said Freed.Freed, a former student at Carnegie Mellon, said she left the University because of the rampant sexism she felt she had experienced. I didntthinkl was taken seriously in the classroom.... CMU is a bastion of sexist male thought. Its a male college and will always be a male college.According to Freed, the women staged the protest in order to make it known to the Carnegie Mellon campus that this will not be tolerated.The protestors, wearing tape across their mouths and remaining silent, affixed signs to their shirts that read This is offensive to women. We will not tolerate it, andWhy do we have brains if we can only use our tongues? They also taped copies of the SAE poster to their backs.Freed said'they had taped their mouths shut to symbolize the sentiment that if were too busy performing fellatio, we cant speak our intelligent minds.Twenty minutes after the protestors arrived, Farron Levy, president of SAE, extended a formal apology to Freed and the women on behalf of himself and the house. Levy said that as soon as they
By4Fi4 i44 Brst-eta SFu4 4 First-year dnFfnFj doyy4u4 ifpc4hf -lMAF zFhAo SFlfM/MSFf4i Mh F Slof4if Mh Tlohf oT eMujF LySnF -SiMyohbi ^oofn oh tnplicFRC
Inside
Classifieds......................Comics..............................Diversions......................Features..........................Sports................................University Calendar. Vox Populi......................
THE TARTAN
2 Y  Dick: Four pages of comics
9 this week?Lg Emma: And then some!LI See page 9
.1519  Lowe shines at the Carnegie
19 Mellon Invitational.
See page 15
 Booth, buggy, and more: The Tartan covers Carnival.
See page LI
They Might Be Giants tops list of Carnival performers.
See page L8
vMiMfoli fo dFlhMNFy ifoS ^R wr,Og-2e UMhhMhu ^oofn 4hflRC wol 
/ojSy4f4 dFlhMNFy /oN4lFu4a i44 SFu4 1,C
Jerry Brown speaks at
David Lawrence Hall
By GREG LEVRAULT
Tartan Staffwriter
On Tuesday, the Pittsburgh headquarters ofthe Jerry Brown campaign received word that the Presidential candidate would be arriving in Pittsburgh on Thursday. Despite the short notice, Browns speech at The University ofPittsburghs David Lawrence Hall on April 11 was extremely well-attended.The press conference was scheduled for 5:30 pm, barring any unforseen complications.The public relations department of the campaign appeared to have done its job well, filling Lawrence Hall with over 700 supporters, according to campaign officials. By the time all the supporters had filed in, the hall was reduced to standing- room-only.The candidates appearance was delayed, and the throng grew restless, but didnt leave. Supporters attempted to lead the crowd in chants for Brown. Shirts, proclaiming his campaign andfundraising 800 num
ber, buttons, and other paraphenalia were sold. Finally, near 7 pm, Jerry Brown arrived to an enthusiastic crowd response.
04llR mloUh iS4FAi Ff BMffC
In a Capra-esque address, Brown spoke mainly of the abuses he says Congress and the Bush administration have committed and continue to commit  bounced checks, neglect of the health care and education
systems in favor of defense, and similar themes.He also expounded on the incumbent politicians bought and sold by the rich, by lobbying parties, by business and spoke of himself as a true peoples candidate, speaking in favor of, according to his math, about 95 percent of America.The crowd was enthralled by the candidates rhetoric, part political speech, part stand-up comedy, especially in his responses to hecklers.He reminded people of the phone number again, though it was posted throughout the hall. Finally, he bid farewell, promising to return in a week or two.When he finished, a good portion of the crowd, mostly reporters, rushed toward him.Questions concerning allegations of cocaine jse, which Brown denies, w' T the main topic.Browr, . . is expected shortly briers the Pennsylvania Democrat- , primaries on Tuesday, April 28-,
CMU pro-choice groups 
march on Capitol Mall
Students and staff join pro-choice rally
By BRENDAN McFEELY
Tartan News Editor
On Sunday, April 5, hundreds of thousands of men, women, and children marched on Washington, D.C., in support of pro- choice legislation.Among many CMU students who attended the march were some members of the Campus Association for Reproductive Rights (CARR).CARR made its plans weeks in advance, according to Rebecca Livingston, a member of the CARR collective and an H&SS sophomore. The plans included having a trainer from the National Organization of Women (NOW) deliver a workshop on civil disobedience to the group, in the unlikely event that any such disobedience should become necessary at the march.Many Pittsburgh residents who traveled to the march did so on buses chartered by NOW. Livingstonnotedthattherewere so many women on their way down to the march that the womens rest room at one rest stop was overcrowded, forcing some women to use the mens room.Douglas Luce, chemical engineering computer consultant, also participated in the march and had much to say about the march in his DC marchalogue post on the Andrew bboard assocs.pro-choice.Luce described the beginning
ofthe march, at the CapitolMall. The first onslaught of opportunists pushfed] buttons and stickers on us. I [was] asked to buy 14 copies of The Militant..., said Luce. When the speakers began to address the crowd from astageontheellipse,Luce could only get about 300 feet closer to
the stage.It [was] standing room only, said Luce. Speakers present included former vice-presidential candidate Geraldine Ferraro, former presidential candidate Jesse Jackson, andawoman who is the only female licensed to drive a bus on the island of Guam. Musical performers present included Peter, Paul, and Mary as well as singer Deborah Harry of Blondie.Luce commented on the lack of pro-life counter-protestors, though he noted that the few pro-life groups present were each attended by both police and a NOW representative. There were some pro-choicers holding
up huge banners over the pictures of Mary some antis were holding up, said Luce.Livingston and Marcus Alzona, CARR member andjun- ior math/CS major, also mentioned the lack of pro-life protestors. Alzona mentioned especially those few counter-protestors he found odd, including one who was not only pro-life, but also anti-Bush and anti-Gulf War. There were also some oddities on the side of the marchers. I saw this one guy there with a sign saying Pro-Choice, Pro- Gun,  said Alzona.Livingston carried a Dominos Pizza box-top, which she had altered to read Nobody likes Dominos. Another sign read If men could get pregnant, abortion would be a sacrament.By the time the march ended, nearly one million marchers, according to NOW, had filed through the ellipse, past the White House and back around to the Capitol Mall.
is (to
MHCE J 1% m
Marcus Alzona/Special to The Tartan
dLrr jFl/n4c Mh IFinMhufoha zCdCa yFif ephcFR

---------------------------------------------------

2The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  13 April 1992
awr ir/v-wijjr/ nj-jr 'Sir'THIS JUST N...
Volumel86m.I s2ImCa 
so2rIlnu olu2Igle
WASHINGTON, April 6 (DJ)Atop adviserto President Bush acknowledged reports of policy gridlock and indecision at the White House, but said the problems were solved.The statement came after 
The Washington Post reported that White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater was ready to quit and other aides were frustrated by the slow pace of policy implementation under the leadership of Bushs new Chief of Staff Samuel Skinner and his deputy Henson Moore.I believe that article reflected a situation that might have been of relevance three or four weeks ago as some of the new members of the team were settling into some of their responsibilities, said Chief Domestic Policy Adviser Clayton Yeutter.Problems that existed weeks ago are not of any great relevance at this time, Yeutter told reporters.It seems to me that the team is settling in a bit more each day and overall is clearly performing well at the moment, Yeutter said. Voters will make the judgment on this ... in November.In The Washington Post article, anonymous adminis
tration officials complained of functional gridlock, operational constipation, and an unbelievable inability to execute that has thwarted attempts to set and execute strategies for domestic policy.The officials also derided the policy-setting organization instituted by Skinner following the stormy departure of former Chief of Staff John Sununu. The system was, the officials said, a minibureaucracy top heavy with officials inexperienced in White House operations who fail to follow things through, 
The Washington Post said.Yeutters remarks indicate he believes the worst of the policy impasse is over. But neither he nor other White House officials could put their finger on any specific upcoming legislation that would deal with major problems facing the U.S., including the economy, health care, exploding entitlements costs, and the ballooning budget deficit.The main reason for the slowness is that most major reforms require congressional approval, which has been elusive during Bushs three years in office and is even more unlikely in an election year. That makes it difficult to propose new bills.
Billionaire considers campaign
WASHINGTON, April 10 (AP)  Texas billionaire H. Ross Perot said hell resign from private clubs if he runs for president and fended off what he called rude and adversarial questions on issues from race relations to deficit reduction.The business executive with the can-do reputation condemned Washington as a place where nothing constructive happens. In a recent speech, he said a Perot administration would be different and vowed to erase the federal deficit, but offered few concrete proposals.For every dollar of taxes raised, the president and Congress increase spending by $1.83.
Clinton solidifies 
lead in NY primaries
NEW YORK, April 8 (AP)  Democratic Party leaders all but declaredBill Clinton their nomi- neefor President last nighteven as they acknowledged their likely candidate faces considerable hurdles in overcoming voter questions about his character.He does not have a lock on the nomination, but the door sure is closing, New York Democratic Chairman John Marino said as Clinton defeated Jerry Brown in New York, Wisconsin, and Kansas primaries, stretchingan already whopping delegate lead. Clinton alsowasleadingin Minnesota.Already, the Arkansas governor was aiming his victory rhetoric at President Bush, a strategy advocated by party leaders.Were not going to tolerate four more years of division, Clinton told a Manhattan rally. Were not going to tolerate four more years of failure. Were not going to tolerate four more years of human neglect. We can do better and we will.
One area where Clinton likely will do better: among elected officials who are super delegates to the Democratic convention, many of whom have remained uncommitted because of the turbulence of the campaign.Clinton has an unassailable delegate lead and with just a portion of support from the super delegates he goes over the top, said veteran party strategist Thomas Donilon. He is going to get the nomination, absent some unfathomable collapse.Democratic Party Chairman Ronald Brown stopped just short of declaring the race over: Everybody was looking at New York, and he won. Couple that with his performances in Wisconsin and Kansas and youve got a major night that moves him closer and closer to the nomination. I dont think I should be declaring it over, but I can add.Clinton scored a respectable win in the New York primary to
The Politics of Students
The Changing Politico! Attitudes of Students Over the Lost 20 Years
Source: American Council on Educotion 
'Survey of American Freshman'
get his Democratic presidential campaign train back on track. Brown was not only trounced by Clinton, but topped by noncandidate Paul Tsongas.The former California governor, repeating his cash-raising 1-800 number at every opportunity, insisted last night the race isnt over.We have just begun to fight, the former California governor told New York supporters, even as he conceded to Clinton.Clinton got 41 percent of the New York vote, Tsongas got 29 percent and Brown got 26 percent.With New York done, Clinton headed today for Peoria, Illinois, and a visit to striking Caterpillar workers before flying home to Little Rock, Arkansas, to make final preparations for the PennLiberal ^
Middle of tfio Roati 
Conservativo
 ft
National Sfudont Nows Sorvico1
sylvania primary three weeks away. H-*There was also waiting to see what Tsongas would do. While the former Massachusetts Setti'a- tor had suspended his campaign, his name remained on the ballot in New York. Supporters fiKd hoped a strong showing there would propel him back into ?he race, but that was uncertain- Tsongas originally promised an announcement Monday. That announcement was put off ufftil Friday, when Tsongas officially said that he is no longer seeking the nomination.
iMUM l8v2oClu m86lo8.6m28.I .86m6otu6 I.yu
This is a government that comes at us, not from us, Perot told the newspaper editors.Perot has said he will run for president as an independent if supporters get his name on ballots in all 50 statesa prospect that appears likely.Perot also has said he would spend up to $100 million of his own money on the campaign.Im not driven to do this, he told the editors. Matter of fact, the more Im in it, the less interesting it becomes.During and after his speech, Perot was questioned not only on substantive issues but also on his personality and his personal morality.
WASHINGTON, April 6  The Bush administrations decision to enforce antitrust laws against foreign companies suspected of colluding to hurt U.S. exporters probably wont result in much legal action, The Wall 
Street Journal reported.Prior to the policy change, the Justice Department challenged anticompetitive activity by foreign companies only if that conduct directly harmed U.S. consumers.A footnote to international antitrust enforcement guidelines, issued by the agency in 1988, said the department is concerned only with adverse effects on competition that would harm U.S. consumers by reducing output or raising prices.The policy actually is a return to the pre-1988 standard, according to Justice lDepartment officials. Yet, the few cases pursued before 1988  only about 40 since 1915, according to James Rill, chief of the depart
ments antitrust division, indicate there may not be many in the near future. He noted there is no current activity targeted under the policy. About 15 countries, including Japan, Canada, and some in Europe urged us to be cautious with the policy change, Rill said.The change opens the way for the Justice Department to take action against such activities as group boycotts, collusive pricing, and other exclusionary activities, the department said.The department said it can act only when U. S. courts clearly have jurisdiction over foreign persons or corporations engaged in such conduct. This means that the department can sue in United States courts the U.S. subsidiaries of foreign companies under investigation, even if the subsidiary itself isnt engaging in illegal conduct. But the department cant move directly against foreign parent companies.
The policy will be implemented very carefully, Rill said, adding that international policy, comity, initiatives of other departments, and enforcement other countries take against their companies would be considered before the United States takes action. Immediately after the departments announcement, the Japanese Foreign Ministry called the policy change a regrettable one that could violate international law if enforced.Rill expressed a clear preference for the other nations to move against their conspiring companies.Clearly, for the policy to succeed the U.S. will need the cooperation of such foreign authorities as the Japan Fair Trade Commission and the European Communitys directorate for competition policy.It would be pretty difficult for the department to serve subpoenas or obtain documents
overseas without such coopration, said William Tanaka, an attorney for the Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association. He said the policy change would be used mainly to spur the JFTC and other foreign authorities to quicker action.While the policy change comes during a time when many Americans complain of unfair trade practices by Japan, the department stressed that the policy is general in nature and not ainjed at businesses in any particular country.But Charles Rule, the author of the 1988 policy, said the attention given the revised policy indicates the administration is trying to send a signal to ,the Japanese.
News Briefs courtesy o Dow Jones, Inc.Layout by Brian Stewart
Carnegie Mellon
Triathlon
1/4 mile swim (500 yards)  10 mile bike (helmets required)  5K run (3.1 mile)
tn4 TMlif k55 oTTD/FjSpi FSSyM/FfMohi 
UMyy ^4 F//4Sf4cC
May 2, 1992, 9 a.m.
Prizes and awards Information and Entries due Entry feeapplications
First, second and third place Open to all Carnegie Mellon All entries are due April 24th to CMU S10 individual
awards to Carnegie Mellon and students, faculty, staff and alumni, the IM office, Skibo information S25 team
non Carnegie Mellon applicants in The first 100 off-campus applica- desk or the Athletic Department, Non CMU S20 individual
each category: tions will also be accepted. 5000 Forbes Avenue. Pittsburgh, S35 team
pA 15213-3890.
bo o Ma e Applications are available at the
 Solo Female Skibo information desk, the IM
Best Male Team office, the Athletic Department.
 Best Female Team dyp^ One, Jewish Community
 Best Coed Team Center and various Squirrel Hill
 Best Masters * 40+ and Shadyside stores. Or call
 Best 14 and under the office at 268-2212. (1
 Best Seniors - 50+
(1st place Male/Female only)
$500 in door prizes

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  13 April 19923
Student Senate MinutesCrime and Incident Report
STUDENT 
SENATE
: Minutes of 7 April 1992
Boll was taken at 7:05 pm. Meeting called to order at 7:15 'pm.
Senators Present: Albert ;(CFA), Altmann (CS), Blake :(CFA), Brown (M.atL.), DeRoss ;(M.atL.), Haverkamp (CIT), :Hernandez (CIT), Holzman :(CIT), Knauer (H&SS), Knight ;(MCS), Laefer (CS), Lawrence : (M.atL. ),Lightfoot (CIT), Loomis (GSIA), McGarvey (IM), Moore :(MCS), Neighbor (CFA), Potthast (H&SS), Shah (M.atL.), -SBfevach (CIT), Singh (CFA), Strong (M.atL.), Tomblyn .(JSCS), Trudwig (M.atL.), Was (H&SS).
Senators Absent: Earhart (MCS), Halvaksz (H&SS), Kraje (SJJPA), Kroos (H&SS), Night- wjpe (CIT), Schmick (CIT), -Wflodhead (IM).
fSJJEx-Officios Present: Assistant to the Dean Tim Foster (Student Affairs), Dean Murphy, 'B&tthast (SDC), Shin (President).
ipx-Officios Absent: Night- wine (AB), Wolfson (GSO).
Approval of the Minutes:Corrections to the minutes of 3irMarch 1992:Special Business: Election re- ,suits were not officially accepted.
'.inSpecial Business:^on-funded recognition: Undergraduate Biology Journal Group. Passed (unanimous).
Loan: Greek Council/Delta Gramma Sorority, $400.purpose: Seed money for Anchor Clankor, a charity event to ;b,e,3ield in September, 1992.passed (unanimous).
Special Allocation: Focal Point, $80.IPurpose: Bernoulli Disk.Passed (unanimous).
Special Allocation: The Thistle (Budget)Subsidy: $26,625.Passed (unanimous).
Special Allocation:WRCT, $3349.Purpose: Mac Ilsi, LaserWriter LS.; Passed in the eyes of the Chair.
Audience Participation:Sanjay Khana spoke about . F&R procedure: it needs some ! open endedness in funding and i ne^ds to look at students point ! of View.Aliya Khan talked about In- ternational Festival.Election Board report was pre- sented.
Committee Reports:
Academic Affairs (Mike Tomblyn):
Academic Affairs Committee ReportSpring 1992
This document provides information on the major projects undertaken by members of Carnegie Mellons Student Senate Academic Affairs Committee for the Spring 1992 term.
Greg Haverkamp (CIT) and Brent Was (CIT) have been compiling information on improving the Faculty Course Evaluation (FCE) process, such as better formats for presenting the information, better questions and criteria for evaluations, and exploring the possibility of an online database and information retrieval system to make the information more accessible while reducing printing costs and paper waste.
Amit Shah (SCS) and Burt Holzman (CIT) have been compiling an information database of scholarships available from various organizations and interests for students at CMU.
Dave Lawrence (CIT) and Shawn Knight (MCS) have been speaking with students from various colleges, as well as with members of the faculty, to investigate options for establishing a system of pass-fail grades for freshmen at CMU.
Mike Tomblyn (MCS), Chair, has provided faculty and staff contacts, as well as information resources and contacts from other universities, for the members of the committee, as well as oordinatingthe efforts and communicating with the administration on the feasibility and progress of committee projects.
Shawn C. KnightStudent Senator, MCSAssistant Chair, Academic Affairs Committee
Campus Affairs (Erik Altmann):The CMDS taskforce had its second vegetarian roundtable last Monday, with Greg Smith of CMDS attending. The vegetarian survey is now in CMDSs hands. The list of ingredients for dishes hasnt gone up yet. Contact Amy Potthast for details.Met with Dean Murphy and Tim last Friday, learned that they had met with Steve Schillo and Neil Binstock to talk about plans and funding for bike racks.Matt will have a report on the progress of the Athletic Facilities Advisory Board for the April 21 Senate meeting. Last AFAB meeting is April 16. Contact Matt Shevach for details.Heather has started a project to rationalize school-wide lost- and-found policy. Current policy of RAs is to send more valuable articles to campus security, and less valuable articles to the Skibo Info desk, for some definition of valuable. She has appointments at the Housing Office to find out more about the official policy. Contact Heather Brown for details.
Funding and Recognition
(Michael Loomis & Amy Blake): Gave our blessing to the Bike Club when they asked our permission to have a bike maintenance day. We had our meeting with UE A, Forbes, KSA, and Greek Council this week.
Public Relations: No report.
Rules (Eric Moore): Constitutional Amendment.
Ex-Officio Reports:
AB (Eric Nightwine): Noreport.
SDC (Amy Potthast): No film this week.
Greek Council: No report.
Graduate Student Organization: No report.
Faculty Senate (Dean Murphy): Dean Murphy discussed the meeting of the University Student Affairs Committee.
Student Affairs (Tim Foster): No report.
Officer Reports:
President (Hyun Shin):Senior happy hour, last Wednesday, organized by Senior Council, was a great success. An outdoor basketball court was voted as the senior gift. Attention to Teaching Task Force has consented to have three to five more student reps. As of the end of this meeting Natalie Gesmond will begin her office as president. It has been a privilege to serve as Student Government President, thank you and good luck.
Chair (Chris Neighbor):Noreport.
Old Business: None.
New Business:CIT seat: Candidate, Fred Trudwig. In the eyes of the chair it was tabled.Election Board report: each of the top votes for H&SS increases by one vote and the CS votes are fine after rechecking it twice.Motion to accept the Election Board report, Vote: (15-2-1).Discussion:Chalking of sidewalks by Scotch N Soda.Meeting adjourned at 8:40 pm.
Compiled by NELOOFAR SOBHANI Edited by BRENDAN McFEELY
The gof.uher ol pum lives t Guiiiity's. Volume86 style. stuffed with 3 elicesti .mu spicci. lopped 
willi chunky sauce .mii MOKE clieeiel Plus, "stullefs" to mi, match of Duild youf own
Food * co-or
ORGANIC AND NATURAL GROCERY STORE
We Support:
10% OFF
for Non-Members with this advertisement 
< expires 5/1/92 >
is(to v(o i-twvjto r/ n't StT-ht ie SCjjagPwl'
EVERYONE WELCOME. Members Receive 10% Discount.
' local and organic farmers 
 community ownership 
' ecological shopping 
1 healthy lifestyles 
1 educational forums
Delivery Available:242-3598
Take 67 F, J, L or 71C Bus to Penn and Braddock Avenues
Store Hours: 10-8 M-F 10-6 Sat. 12-5 Sun.
4/3 NOISE COMPLAINT,9:29 pm. An officer patrolling in Margaret Morrison heard excessively loud music coming from an unknown location. He checked the immediate area and located the source of the music. A room in Resnik had stereo speakers positioned in the windows and directed outward. The officer directed the resident of the room to turn down the music. The resident had been warned at an earlier date to keep the music down, as there was a track meet going on at the time and the runners could not hear the gun.
4/4 INTOXICATION, 1:48 am. A complainant called Campus Police and stated that there was someone in Doherty Hall who was very ill. Two officers responded and found the victim lying on the stairs, passed out and covered with vomit. The victim was obviously intoxicated. He was checked over by a student EMS, who stated that the victim could be transported back to his residence. Two friends said they would sit with him through the night.
4/4 INDECENT EXPOSURE, 2:59 am. Complainant observed a white male exposing himself in front of the Margaret Morrison storefronts. The responding officers identified the man, who stated that he was just horsing around with his friends and had only meant to drop his pants, but not his underwear. He was issued an internal citation for indecent exposure.
4/4 UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY, 3:40 pm. A student stated that on two separate dates an unknown person or persons entered his room. On the first occasion, he found cigarette butts and ashes in his apartment. On the second occasion, he returned from the movies and found his bedding in disarray, with a used condom on the sheets. He stated that his room was locked on both occasions and that his roommate was out of town for the second incident. He was instructed to contact'the Housing Office about
lock changes.
4/5 ALARM, 9:59 am. Campus Police received an alarm for the Health Care Center. Two officers checked the area and found it secured and alarmed. A check of the interior revealed that the supply room was unsecured and unable to be secured. The alarm was reset using a bypass method.
4/5 MEDICAL CALL, 3:05 pm. A student stated that while working on a project with an exacto knife, he slipped and cut his left middle finger, resulting in a one-inch laceration. He refused medical transport, but requested that tape and gauze be applied.
4/6 THEFT, 6:36 pm. The victim reported that someone removed the front tire from his 12- speed Schwinn bicycle. The bicycle is equipped with quick releases. The value of the stolen tire is unknown.
4/7 ASSIST OUTSIDE AGENCY, 1:52 am. A dispatcher from a police department in Ohio phoned Campus Police in an attempt to locate a CMU student. The students mother had just filed Domestic Violence papers against her husband in an ongoing, violent case involving weapons and younger children, and the police were interested in talking to the student. The student had moved from the address in the C-Book and left no forwarding address. Campus Police will continue in attempts to locate the student.
4/7 MEDICAL ESCORT,7:51 pm. While the victim was working out at the track, he was struck by a softball from the intramural game that was going on at the time. The ball caused a laceration on his chin, and he was transported to Presbyterian Hospital.
4/8 MEDICAL, 9:45 pm. The victim experienced sudden and unexplained back pain while working on the Kresge Theatre stage crew. He stated that he had performed no strenuous ac
tivity, and didnt recall any sudden twisting or jerking. He was transported to Presbyterian Hospital by the reporting officer.
4/9 DISORDERLY CONDUCT, 3:07 am. A woman stated that three white males had come out onto the Midway in a drunken state and seemed to be looking for a fight. Some pushing and shoving had taken place before the officers arrival. The men were stopped andidentified, and they all said they had come to visit a friend working on a booth. They were told to go home and go to bed, and if they were seen on the Midway, they would be cited. All three apologized and left the area.
4/9 ASSAULT (DOMESTIC VIOLENCE), 3:34 am. The victim reported that she had been abused by her boyfriend, who had then left her alone in her campus apartment. They got into an argument, and her boyfriend had pinned her arms down and beat her repeatedly with his fists around her face and arms. The victim had a swollen lip and a great deal of facial swelling. No sexual assault or attempt at such occurred. She said that the assault was the second incident of that type, and that her boyfriend had been drinking both times. The victim was informed of her options in pressing charges through Student Affairs or the civil magistrate. The victim was offered transport to a medical facility and an opportunity to contact the Counseling Center, both of which she declined.
4/9 THEFT, 11:45 pm. The victim reported that she left her jacket in the ladies room on the first floor of Skibo while she helped with the Scotch N Soda production. When she returned, her wallet had been removed from a pocket.The wallet contained a dollar and some change, a Pennsylvania drivers license, a CMU ID, an MCI card, a cash receipt for a clothing store, and personal items. The wallet is leather and bright yellow.Compiled by M. K. RODGERS
Correction....
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of an error, 
Hoover atx2 111, or write her in care of The Tartan.
contact Heidi
SUMMER BREAK IS COMING!
NEED STORAGE 
SPACE?AProtected ^ConfidentialElectronic Security for each Storage RoomAS afe24-hour Monitoring for Fire and Intrusion
Entry by access code only
^AccessibleIndoor Loading dock  open 7 days
Guardi an/A\Self StoraqeF=^TT
SHADYSIDE
441-5983
5873 Centre Ave.

---------------------------------------------------

4The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  13 April 1992
By BRENDAN McFEELY
Tartan News Editor
Last Saturday, the CMU Robotics Club traveled to Raleigh, North Carolina, to participate in the sixth Annual Robotic Walking Machine Decathalon, held by the Society of Automotive Engineers.This is the first time CMU has fielded a robot in the six years this competition has been taking place. Project leader Jon Burroughs expressed a great deal of excitement and optimism about the Decathalon when interviewed last Wednesday, before the team left for North Carolina. The teams robot, tentatively named the MOOSE (for MObile Oh-my-god-its-huge Surface Explorer), was ready as
of Wednesday to compete in all ten events. We have a good, competitive, solid robot, said Burroughs.The Decathalon is made up of events including the Dash, the U-turn, Slalom, Hockey (wherein the machine must push an NflL hockey puck across the floor), an obstacle course, Stair- climbing, and four events which the robot must perform autonomously, including repeats of the Dash and Slalom. Other autonomous events include one which requires the machine to utilize external sensors to maneuver through its environment. The final event is Obedience, in which the robot must follow orders from one of the team members.Due to unfortunate technical
difficulties, MOOSE was unable to perform up to expectations, and did not place. The competition resulted in a repeated first place for Colorado State University, with Quebecs Concordia University taking second, and North Carolina State placing third. Nonetheless, Burroughs remains optimistic. Were looking forward to going back next year.Burroughs and the team consider the competition to be an important part of their work as CMU students. If CMU wants to be considered a good engineering school, people should be doing things like this, said Burroughs, who believes that the biggest project a lot of ECEs come out of school with is setting up their stereo system.
,ollP Um8b olutI6u nmuC2t86le
d:. ro^ofM/i dyp^2i :sse- flFN4li4i P:Fli f4llFMhC3
Hsin-i Chow/Tartan Photo Staff Manager
By BRENDAN McFEELY
Tartan News Editor
Due to an unpredicted error in counting that was discovered last week, the results of the Greek Sing competition have been changed.The new results place SigTau
standings is in the Overall category. The new standings place Theta Xi first, with Sigma Alpha Epsilon second. Delta Gamma, first-ranked in the sorority division, also moves up to take third place overall, also displacing AEPi.Reactions from the affected
We don't honestly know what happened.
 Dan Casey, 
A Phi 0 Greek Sing Chair
in first place in the Mixed division, displacing AEPi, who had been erroneously awarded first place. Another change in the
houses are as expected. Most affected was AEPi, where President Doug Brook said, We still had a lot of fun and we feel we
did a good job, says Brook.At Sig Tau, assistant Greek Sing chair James Irwin said Were very happy ... very, very pleased, with the outcome. Irwin expressed his happiness with A Phi Os admission of its error, but added that Sig Tau has not yet been given the trophy. DG Sing chair Kim Loughran was pleased with the results.A Phi O handled the vote tabulation, and when asked aboutit, Dan Casey, A Phi 0 Greek Sing chair explained that the counting error could not have been foreseen. We dont honestly know what happened, said Casey.
,Uh1 3282ou u6.vv ym63 .y.oeu
By JENNIFER FORBES
Tartan Copy Manager
The Graduate School of Industrial Administration honored Bemie Leppold, administrative assistant, and Bonnie Schultz, document production specialist, in its first annual GSIA Staff Recognition Awards on Thursday, April 2.The staff, faculty and students were asked to nominate a staff member, said Pat Niber, chair of the GSIA Staff Recognition Awards Committee. They were given packets
that include the criteria for the awards, a list of eligible staff members, and a ballot. The nominators were asked to comment on why they chose the person that they nominated.The committee then made its decision based on the ballots. The committee consisted of Susie Brown, director of special projects, Marilyn Hersh, associate director of administration, Gail Rnowlan, supervisor of word processing, Nancy Melone, assistant professor of industrial administration, Vickie Motz, GSIA receptionist, Barbara
Price, GSIA computing office coordinator, and Niber.Both recipients were thrilled with the award. Said Leppold, who has worked at GSIA since December 1985, Im very happy to have received the award. It feels good to know that my work is appreciated. Schultz has worked at GSIA for 6 years. I was deeply honored. I wanted to thank the committee. It had to be hard to decide who would win this, she said, The hard work and dedication really pays off sometimes.
A3.63.n y2nl8 so26lu6 s2u6lo
PROTEST, from page 1realized the posters were offensive, they attempted to remedy the situation by replacing the posters the same day they were distributed. It [the originalposter] was a _________regrettable decision, he said.I dont accept your apology, replied Freed, saying,no one [in the SAE] had the guts to stand up to this sexist poster.Freed said, I challenge [Student Affairs] Dean gg|ggggjgg [Michael] Murphy to a meeting of the minds. Dean Mur-phy needs to sit down, listen, and comprehend why women wont tolerate pornographic representations of them in print. Then he needs to act on it.Freed feels that Student Affairs is not as concerned as it should be. CMUs non-discrimination policy doesnt cut it, she said. She feels it is too vague and that it doesnt answer the question or solve the problem.
Murphy, in response to her challenge, said, I dont have any interest in talking to her. Murphy also felt that the poster was not representative of SAE. I think its clear this was
that the women were happy., where we are.The protest is not the first time a group has taken issue with a fraternity party posterT Last year, during Theta Xis
I challenge Dean Murphy to a meeting of" 
the minds. Murphy needs to sit down, lis
ten and comprehend why women wont tol
erate pornographic representations of them 
in print.
 protestor Blaire Freed
a couple individuals. The house did a good job of getting this straightened out.... [The original poster] was not what the house stands for.Security Director James LaPaglia, arrived on the scene and attempted to get the protestors to move. He was concerned about the safety of the protestors and nearby people working on their booths because of the number of power tools in use. Freed replied that there were two clear pathways and
pledge party, a protest was staged by a group consisting- of both CMU students and students from other schools, including Freed. The protestorgr felt that the pledge party postf-v, ers, which included graphics of a woman in her underclothes' leaning from a doorway and' one that allegedly appeared to be a man beating a woman; perpetuated sexist attitudes1, among the fraternities and the University. No action wa" taken by the University. ^
Robotics Club competes 
in robotics Decathalon
First-time entry for CMU
Thanks to you...
it works... 
for ALL OF US
p United Way
Come join us... 
be a volunteer
United Way of Allegheny County Volunteer Action Center 394-5380
COKE YOUR Plns TODBY ! ! RfllEl HBS IT fill ! !
Seve^j ... vAtty veAlf
none to^nAlny... seven nrs, 
(UAqqAW, Sem\ HAT, ftiAmomt)
Pick up a detailed information sheet at the Skibo Information Desk !!!
For More Information, Please Call Hillel (160 N. Craig St.) at 621-8875 !!!
(412) 441-4444 5405 Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA 15232 Toll Free 800-767-8483
SHORT & SUITE
SHORT TERM LEASES 
ELEGANTLY FURNISHED STUDIO 
1 OR 2 BEDROOM 
APARTMENT SUITES.
Only a few steps from FASHIONABLE WALNUT STREET SHOPS AND RESTAURANTS. From $47 per day (on a monthly basis). Includes FREE local phone (answering machine too!), cable TV (2 movie channels), VCR, all linens, completely equipped kitchen and parking. Maid and concierge services available.
PBSSOVERis
BPRil 11-8PR1I S5

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  13 April 19925
Carnegie Mellon in Brief
Psychology professor wins National 
Academy of Science Research Award
Associate professor of psychology Martha J. Farah is one of 13 individuals who received the 1992 Troland Research Award from the National Academy of Sciences. The award is given to those who have made outstanding contributions to science.Farah does research on human perception and cognition and is the author of the article Visual Agnosia: Disorders of Object Recognition and What They Tell Us About Normal Vision. She will use her $32,000 award for further empirical research in psychology.
Hillei director to leave Pittsburgh
Rabbi Joseph H. Levine, directoivof Pittsburghs Bnai Brith Hillel, has accepted a position as Professor and Director of Jewish Study and Life at DePauw University in Greencastle, Indiana. Levine will begin his new position on August 1.At DePauw, Levine will do both individual and team teaching with all departments on Judaism and multiculturalism. His interdisciplinary courses will focus on contemporary Jewish thought and how it relates to current Jewish college students. In addition, he will serve as a Jewish role model to help establish a more active Jewish presence on the campus.Levine worked with Hillel at several other universities before coming to Pittsburgh in 1976. In addition to working closely with students in Hillel over the years, he taught classes for H&SS through its interdisciplinary studies program and was a one-time field instructor in the School of Social Work at the University of Pittsburgh.
H&SS Freshman establishes environ
mental computer service on Internet
Student EnviroLink, a computer network containing a library of environmental news and events, has been established by H&SS freshman Josh Knauer. Student EnviroLink, which can be accessed through the Internet computer system, reaches more than 200,000 concerned environmentalists in 29 coufiitries.Student EnviroLink contains information taken from environmental publications, the news media, and scholarly papers about environmental concerns, such as ozone depletion, waste disposal, and endangered species.One of the biggest problems facing the environmental movement is activists who sometimes act before they think, says Knauer. Student EnviroLink provides information to environmental activists to help them accomplish their task.Anyone connected to the Internet system can access Student EnviroLink at env-link@andrew.cmu.edu.Knauer has also established the Environmental Resouce Alliance of Pittsburgh (ERAP), a group of volunteers concerned with educating the community about environmental issues. To date, ERAP has 70"Volunteer members and has received the support of H&SS and CMU Student Affairs.
Art student wins Liquitex grant
CMU student Jessica Buben has been selected as a grant recipient in the 1992 Liquitex Excellence in Art Student Grant Program, which recognizes outstanding artists at the college level.pearly 1500 graduate and undergraduate students nationwide applied for the programs 115 grants. A panel consisting of practicing artists and university educators selected the award recipients.
CMU creates Center for Advanced 
Deformation Processing Research
CMU has established a Center for Advanced Deformation Processing Research (CADPR), to help American companies create and process new materials for high technology applications.Reformation processing involves applying forces to materials to shape them or control their microstructures and properties.The center is funded initially by the University, CIT, the Ben Franklin Technology Center, and eight other industrial participants, including Alcoa, Dynamet, Kobe Development Corporation, and Richter and Company.Work at the center will revolve around a unique research toola hot triaxial compaction device that can enhance the properties of metals, ceramics, and composites by compacting their powders at extremely high temperatures, pressures, and shear stresses. According to CADPR Director Henry R. Piehler, professor of materials science and engineering, this apparatus can physically model deformation processes and provide much needed but rarely available data to model them on a computer.
Compiled by SUSAN ABRAMS andBRENDAN McFEELY
Student Senate Election Results
(13.2 percent voter turnout)
Thanks to you... it works,.. 
for ALL OF US
United WayStfcomPuWt
Q$efS-"
Have a blast every time you use your Macintosh. Try out MacFunware, an innovative software distribution service, designed exclusively for Apple Mac users. Each month, youll receive a floppy diskette chock-filled with the latest in entertaining shareware and freeware. For this months copy, send two first-class postage stamps and a Mac disk (preferrably not blank) to:
PA:.B pa.A5644jeannette
MUSICIANS 
DBOOK '92
Take the
First Step to
Getting Signed....
CONTACT:
Major Record Labels, Publishers, 
Clubs, Promoters, Managers, Studios, 
Distributors, Nationwide
Send $35.00 (check or money order) to:
A &. R RECORD GUIDEP.O. Box 88415 Los Angeles, CA 90009
EXECUTIVE BRANCH POSITIONS 
Student Government President
Natalie Gesmond
Christian Restifo
Jason Bareford
Roy Devine
Rachenee Roger
Four candidates with two votes
Nine candidates with one vote
337
187
152
78
17
Student Government Treasurer
Jay Laefer 57
Several candidates recieved less than 10 
votes.
SENATE SEATS 
CIT
Rob Evans* 117
Brian Engel* 115
Burt Holzman* 101
David Lawrence* (half-year seat) 84 
FredTrudwIg 8
Tom Hummel 8
10 candidates with two votes 
22 candidates with one vote
CFA
Erik Larson* 37
Jennifer Gaspari* 37
John Reigert* 11
Aaron Spaulding 10
Ted McCann 9
Ed Umbceholtz 9
Alex Stenek 8
Paul Sollimo 6
scs
Jay Laefer 40
H&SS
Amy Potthast* 115
Josh Knauer* 85
David Martin* 82
Allan Bourdius 72
Ed Proctor 21
Dan Ladd 18
Matt Fowler 4
Two candidates with three votes 
Two candidates with two votes 
15 candidates with one vote
GSIA
Michael Loomis* 15
Michel Rose* 12
Steven Sung* 7
Rob Byrne 2
Carol Goldberg 2
Sogrld Ason 1
IM
Terrel Dean* 19
Emma Gosden 11
Matt Woodhead 2
Six candidates with one vote
MCS
Mike Tomblyn* 70
Tony DeRoss* 55
Rick Malone* 40
Rich Marino 36
Niloo Sobhani 4
Three candidates with one vote
SUPA
Cecil Way 19
Brennan Kraje 13
Val Zillig 9
Sherrie Lim 8
Bradley Phillips 3
HAVE YOU EVER CONSIDERED A 
MAJOR OR MINOR IN A FOREIGN 
LANGUAGE?
YOU ARE INVITED TO A MODERN 
LANGUAGES PARTYTO LEARN MORE ABOUT 
OUR PROGRAMS IN 
FRENCH, GERMAN, JAPANESE AND SPANISH
WEDNESDAY APRIL 15 
4:00 P.M.
BAKER HALL 160
HORS D'OEUVRES
*-K7'/P
TAPAS
SSSIGKEITEN
>

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
A.o8mg.I m8usmolu Api 
62 usmom69 C22slo.6m28
Carnival is three days of par
tying and blowing off responsi
bility, right? Not necessarily. To 
many students at CMU, Carni
val is the culmination of weeks, 
or even months, of hard work on 
Booth or Buggy. All of the behind-the-scenes planning that 
started last semester paid off 
this past weekend.
We would like to applaud the 
sense of constructive competi
tion that many organizations 
brought to the entire event. So 
many times at CMU, especially 
in academic situations, there is 
such tension between groups, or 
even individuals, that the com
petition is not enjoyable. While 
we realize that Carnival is 
fiercely competitive, it is also a 
situation that only succeeds if 
everyone involved works to
gether. Rivalry can be combined 
with cooperation, as everyone 
involved with Carnival demon
strated last weekend.
Another benefit of Carnival 
that everyone should truly ap
preciate is the sense of commu
nity that it brings. From return
ing alumni to residents of sur
rounding communities that at
tend the events, the campus 
seemed, for once, to be truly 
connected to the outside world. 
At times CMU can be a very 
isolated place, in word and deed, 
but for at least three days, the 
campus was alive with visitors 
who were just as enthusiastic 
about the events and activities 
as the students.
Many organizations also con
tributed in ways less visible than
Booth or Buggy involvement, 
and they deserve just as much 
credit. The Radio Club con
stantly monitored Sweepstakes, 
providing vital information for 
the safety of the event. WRCT, 
in addition to providing music 
and Midway contests, broadcast 
the races in their entirety so 
that those who couldnt drag 
themselves out of bed could lis
ten in. The EMS team provided 
very valuable safety and first 
aid services on the Midway, and 
members of A Phi O worked 
tirelessly to provide hungry 
crowds with funnel cake and hot 
dogs. AB Tech set up and main
tained sound for concerts. These 
organizations and all the others 
who did a great deal of work for 
very little glory deserve all our 
thanks for their efforts.
Scotch N Soda deserves a 
round of applause for its musi
cal production, Jack!. Many 
hours of hard work went into 
the show, which was of profes
sional caliber. Yet again, stu
dents at CMU proved that we 
can do many things unrelated to 
our academic lives.
Carnival offered the chance for 
everyone to relax, or at least to 
focus energy on something other 
than his or her GPA. Carnival 
ran smoothly, which is a credit 
to Meg Veilly, Carnival chair 
and all the other chairs, who 
smoothed out the bumps. Na
ture even cooperated (for once) 
with blue skies and little rain. 
Maybe the Carnival spirit will 
last through the end of the se
mester. We certainly hope so.
1C.elnmCu u32tIe 
u6omPl r.I.8Cl ym63 Imvl
Stress and pressure  thats 
what life at Carnegie Mellon is 
about most of the time. But once 
a year people stop their normal 
routine to put together a week
end that is both fun and relax
ing. Or at least thats the way 
its supposed to be during Spring 
Carnival.
Some professors seem to do 
everything in their power to 
make students lives more diffi
cult around Spring Carnival. 
Professors assign work that is 
due the Friday of Carnival, or 
assign a large proj ect due imme
diately after Carnival.
Another problem is that pro
fessors will make sure that they 
make one more test or project 
due a day or two before Carnival 
so that students can enjoy Car
nival. The problem is that when 
every professor decides to follow 
that idea, then students will 
have something due in every 
class and the work load increases 
while many are trying to get a 
booth built or run some other 
activity.
The request to professors is 
simplegive students a break! 
Spring Carnival not only repre
sents a time to take a break just 
before the end of the semester 
and the beginning of finals, it is 
also a very educational experi
ence for many students.
Building booths, running 
buggy programs, and organiz
ing the various Carnival com
mittees teach leadership, man_ K . ft
Twe WEStc 6F6R ft RM I VAI, 
CARK IVAL
Letters to the Editor
Student Government 
President recalls term
Letter to the Editor
agement skills, and team work. 
Some of these skills will prob
ably be more important than 
many of the courses that we are 
required to take. An education 
is not just academics; life re
quires a variety of different skills 
and not all of those can be 
learned in a classroom.
Even without considering the 
educational value of Spring Car
nival, students still need a break 
once in a while. If students are 
not given the opportunity to 
enjoy their break from the class
room, then the level of learning 
will decrease as the semester 
goes on.
Time away from any job is 
important. A students job is a 
seven-day-a-week job, and at 
some times a 24-hours-a-dayjob. 
The time off and relaxation that 
Carnival provides is a neces
sity.
Students are expected to be 
able to follow schedules. Spring 
Carnival is on the university 
calendar far in advance. There 
is no reason why professors cant 
plan better and make sure 
projects and tests are not due 
immediately before or after 
Spring Carnival.
Academics here at CMU 
would not fall apart and Carni
val would be more fun and ben
eficial to the campus commu
nity as a whole if students didnt 
have five important tests and 
three big projects due during 
one week in April.
onEditor:It has been a privilege to serve as your Student Government President this past year. As of April 7,Natalie Gesmond has taken her office as your new Student Government President.I would like to take this opportunity to summarize the progress and status of the initiatives launched during my tenure.First, evaluation forms for the student mentor program have been sent to all participants. Their input will be used to refine and improve the program for next year when the program expands to include College of Fine Arts, in addition to Industrial Management and College of Humanities and Social Sciences. Natalie Gesmond has been dilligently coordinating the program and will continue to assume oversight over the program. Any questions and suggestions can be directed to her.Second, as I noted before, we decided to postpone the Academic Planning Fair until next year to ensure proper planning. This program will provide a medium through which students can learn about various academic options and programs we have available at Carnegie Mellon. Currently, Michael Ewedosh is heading this important effort.Thirdly, Gathering Storr, which is a discussion forum that Student Government co-sponsors with Student Affairs, has been gradually gaining recognition and participation among students as well and faculty and staff. The next Gathering Storr will take place on April 21 and will discuss money as motivation. I strongly encourage all of you to attend the function. I am sure you will find it worth your time. Rhonda Struminger has been a driving thrust for this event for Student Government. She will be more than willing to listen to your concerns and ideas.The most recent endeavor, first proposed by the Campus Affairs Committee of Student Senate, is Student Government Environmental Committee, chaired by Josh Knauer. This committee will serve as the focal point of communication and activities for campus environmental concerns. Please contact Josh if you are interested in participating in this endeavor.In addition, Student Government has worked closely with a number of different campus committees. In particular, we are actively involved in the Commission on Undergraduate Education to incorporate student input and insights.Although Student Government as a whole has made some significant strides last year, we have much to improve upon. In order to accelerate this process, your support and participation are essential. So, I urge you to stay active and informed. The only way to make Carnegie Mellon the kind of place we want it to be is if all of us genuinely care and channel that feeling in a constructive manner. I know it sounds easier than it actually is, but lets give it a try.
trusting me to represent your interests and serve your needs as Student Government President. I would like to extend special thanks to others in Student Government who have shared the burden with me and Student Affairs for all their assistance. It has been a lot of work, but I have derived enormous satisfaction from working to make this campus a better place for all of us. Take care and best wishes.
Hyun B. ShinSenior, Industrial Management & Economics
Student finds SAE poster 
degrading to women
on
Letter to the Editor
Editor:I am enclosing in this letter a poster which appeared throughout campus this evening. Intending to advertise the Carnival weekend parties that it is hosting, the organization that distributed it, Sigma Alpha Epsilon (SAE), instead degrades and defaces the women of Carnegie Mellon University and the image of women as a whole. The poster, which reads Moby Dick... Thar She Blows!!!!, depicts the image of a whale in a tub of water, his hands behind his head, relaxing, while we see the bottom half of a mermaid, her head submerged under the water.Even without the phrase Thar She Blows!!!!, the implied message of the poster is clear to the viewer. Are we then to believe that any male who chooses to attend the parties at the SAE house this weekend will receive fellatio from one of the many women that will be in attendance at SAE this weekend? Or perhaps the brothers of SAE are hoping to attract women to their parties by leading them to believe that they might receive the honor of performing fellatio upon one of their brethren....As a member of the campus community, I am deeply offended and disgusted by the depiction of women that I see in this poster and others advertising similar events. It is sexist attitudes like this one that make fraternities dangerous and give women cause for alarm. As a woman, I am truly afraid and sick at heart to think that such a large and powerful organization such as SAE and others can continue to perpetuate the myth of women as merely sex objects and symbols of pleasure for men. This is in no way a new trend. Fraternities have been known to use clearly sexual and anti-female images and phrases in their advertising in the past.The SAE poster is merely the most blatantly disgusting and insulting one to date. Why must we be subject to such harassment (and yes, this is definitely a form of sexual harassment) in our daily lives? How can women ever feel that we are being taken seriously in this community if this is the type of attitude that assaults us on every bulletin board we pass by?In response to this poster, I urge all the members of the CMU community, male and female, to speak out against this depiction of women. I urge them to In closing, I thank all of you for en- boycott any and all Sigma Alpha Epsi
lon events until the brothers of SAE have shown that they have changed their attitudes to the women of tfiis community. I also urge the member of the campus community to watch rfor similar forms of degradation to any group of people.
Sallyann Kluz Sophomore, Architecture
Plea of help for Croatians 
in Yugoslavia
Editor:
Letter fo the Editor
At this stage in your lives, you have some of the mo st imp ortant decisions to make....So why should you even consider doing something that will not make you wealthy, improve ygur love life, help you to become more popular, or solve the world energy crisis?We are appealing to your it is nobler to give than to receive side. We55are the Croatian community in the United States. We are the people and the deT scendants of the people from the state of Croatia.We, the people of Croatia, have dajed to do what the United States di^in 1776; demanded our freedom, our iiide^ pendence, and an end to foreign occur pation.We have paid a heavy price. Almost half of our country has been destroyed by the. Yugoslav Communist Ar$iy> which is not only overwhelmingly ter equipped than we are, but itfVis probably the most ruthless army in,the world.As the result of our fight for freedom, 13 centuries of our history and culture were destroyed, tens of thousands of people were killed or are still prisoners of the Yugoslav government. One-fifth of our population is homeless.What genuinely hurts us is the ^act that not only did President Bush^ot aid us, but he sided with our aggressors and declared that he had no objections to the Communist government of Yugoslavia using force to keep the country together.Please write, phone, fax or contact... your federal Senators, House Representatives, Cabinet Members, the Pr^si-  dent (202-456-1111), and the State Department (202-647-4000) and ask them to support the freedom and independence of Croatia and demand that they stop the destruction of an entire nation of people.... tij.Perhaps this is the first you h#ve heard of our plight. The reasons for tj>is are simple: we have no oil, no nuclear weapons, no minerals, no cash crops, and no exports of importance to the i*,est of the world. Therefore, as far asi big business, the media, and the President are concerned, what happens in Croatia is only of interest to other Croatia^.I implore you, please help us stop^he annihilation of an entire nation; ,pf people. The survival of ... all of.pur loved ones in Croatia is precariouScat best. Please help.If you would like more information, please write to me at 30814 Scriyo, Warren, Mich., 48092; or call (313) 751- 6890.
Stjepan Balog Warren, Mich.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  13 April 19927
Abortion rights issue raises controversy
Volumeu86 .I s2meuCa
Simple people like simple solutions. After all such solutions dont require much thinking. If you have a problem, disregard the gray areas, look only at information that supports your side, make some sweeping generalizations, and bang! The problem is solved. When I look for examples of people who are experts at this type of problem solving, the pfQ-life movement always comes to mind.Oddly enough, two rather interesting letters were printed in The Tartan the week before the March On Washington. Both of them, in response to Rich Robinsons column about adoption commercials [TV ads mislead viewers on adoption, 3/16], show how ignorant the pro-life movement is when it comes to the debate about abortion.Pat Mooney presents himself as spokesperson for the great and unbiased entity Lknown as Science. In his letter [Prolife supporter argues with columnists logic, 4/6], he claims that the pro-life movement bases its concept of human lift?; on systematized knowledge derived from observation. Observations of the sptfrm and the egg tell us that a dramatic change occurs when the two unite to form a complete human cell. After this point, there is no other defining change to-this tiny human being.Pwould like to know how there can be no other defining change. Is Mooney implying that the development of a beating heart, active brain waves, or other such characteristics is meaningless?Mooneys blanket statement is ex
tremely distressing to me. First, science still has not come up with a hard and fast definition of life when it comes to conception. For example, one of the most hotly contested items is the concept of viability.During the time when Roe vs. Wade was being litigated, it was easy for the Supreme Court to decide on the trimester breakdown. After all, before the third trimester, not many fetuses could survive. Advances in technology and medical science, however, have pushed the viability boundary back to as early as 20 weeks.Of course, we come to the question of
bor? The concept of human life is a moral issue, not a scientific one.I would also like to point out that conception does not take place instantaneously. The swapping and placement of genes can take up to three days.While we can forgive the pro-life movement for its erroneous use of science by simply saying people dont do enough research, some other lies spread by its members are completely disgusting. Scott Whites letter [Anti-abortion supporter clarifies movement views, 4/6] is indicative of how the pro-life movement falsely claims abortions inevitably hurt women.The wise reader of Whites letter would
In 1988, hoping to get more support to remove 
Roe vs. Wade, Reagan asked Koop to write a 
report on the link between abortions and any 
possible side effects. Stunning conservatives 
everywhere, Koop said he could do no such 
thing. Why? ... the data was inconsistent.
what exactly is viability? Is it a 50 percent chance of surviving with medical help? Is it a stage in development whereby the fetus could survive with medical help and develop fully? Every living baby/ fetus is different. The dividing line for one is not the same for another. This line of thinking does not even include the complications resulting from birth defects and disease. Who is to make the decision concerning viability?My point here is that science does not 
prove one way or the other when human 
life begins. With exception to the chromosomes, a human zygote looks just like any other zygote, be it a cow, a dog, or a bird. Whos to say its human? Mooney, the state, me, God, your next door neighundoubtedly note the source of his information about the side-effects of abortion. He pulls all his information from one article from The Washington Times in 1983. Using quotes from an interview with Nancyjo Mann, founder of Women Exploited By Abortion (WEBA), White shows the evil consequences of having an abortion.The supposed effects include a sense of remorse, suicidal tendencies, and self destructive behavior. While these possible results seem frightening, a little research shows Whites (and Manns) claims to be completely unfounded.First, note the date and source. I would hardly trust any organization known as WEBA to provide fair statistics and con
clusions. Only after close scrutiny would I accept their data. Unfortunately, White offers no numbers or indications of how the studies were conducted.Second, anyone who knows anything about the effects of abortion is well aware of the report by the American Psychological Association (APA) and Surgeon General Koops reluctance to write a report on the side effects of abortion.In 1988, hoping to get more support to removeRoe vs. Wade, Reagan asked Koop to write a report on the link between abortions and any possible side effects. Stunning conservatives everywhere, Koop said he could do no such thing. Why? Well, according to The New York 
Times, Koop had the Public Health System examine 250 studies dealing with the psychological repercussions of abortion. Many of the methods used by the studies were flawed, and the data was inconsistent.As a result, Koop said that the studies do not support the premise that abortion does or does not cause or contribute to psychological problems. Additionally, the studies could not link physical damage since they included both women who gave birth before abortions and those who did not. Mind you, this was said by a man who was vocally anti-abortion.In response to this conclusion, the APA had six people from University of California at San Francisco look at all available data. The results, published in the April 6 edition of Science, concluded that most negative reactions occur before the abortion, not after. In fact, the experts wrote, Severe negative reactions 
after abortions are rare and can be understood in the framework of coping with a normal stress life. (Italics are mine.)Many, many more examples abound showing the deceitful methods of the 
Please see ISSUE, page 8
Computer plan files reveal ones personality
r8ma6 .nga68iM
Anyone out there remember CW? Assignment Number One of tfte freshman Computer Skills Wtfrkshop was to jump onto Andrew and write yourself a plan file! At the time, it was whatever meaningless drivel you could put on the screen to get out of Baker 140 and enjoy the rest of your da. But in four years time, Ive decided that how the plan files change, reveal a lot of useful information about the authors.The first electronic judgement you can make doesnt even involve the body text of the plan. How much mail are they getting, and how often do they check it?r This is by no means a complete way of judging people, but 
if the mail last read indicator never passes five hours (like mine, except when Im sick), you cai}. be pretty sure youve got ypj^rself a classic Type-A personality.But the plan text itself reveals even more about people, aside from their favorite music and the names of their cats. For instance, did they ever bother changing what they wrote as freshmen, or are they still bitching about living in Hamerschlag Hall and dining in the Kiltie Caf?I managed to make it to my junior year before I finally decided my plan needed overhaul but there are some unimaginative souls who never bother to change. The way I see it, the plan is a unique (if somewhat geeky) way of expressing yourself, so you should make the most of it.And a few people do exactly that. I can think of two people whose plan files would make a small book; another friend has .plan and its evil twin,.plan.quotes. Other people have constantly changing files. For about a week, I tried the concept of a new plan each day, but abandoned the concept as too anal-retentive for
my tastes.There are, luckily, only a few major schools of plan file expression, so lets take a look at each of them:The bio  This is the standard way of getting your information across; however, its fatal flaw is that, when all is said and done, its just data. It may
be very helpful if someone wants to buy you a pair of pants or do your grocery shopping but it leaves a great deal to be desired if you actually want to try and get inside someones head. The only real means of self-expres- sion in this format is in the choice of offbeat bio itemsgood mom saying is probably my favorite example of this.The esoteric school  Generations of CMU students will
come and go from this school, but there will always be a core of people who fill their plan files with song lyrics and poetry. Personally, I never liked this method because, being an R.E.M. fan, I cant even make out what the hell Michael Stipe is saying most of the time, much less find the meaningful passages to put out
there.Maybe I need to listen to more decipherable bands, but until ' that day comes, Ill stay away from this method. The other main drawback is that if you pick the wrong lines, all your friends go on suicide watch.Quotes, quotes, quotesOne of the many products of television and the short American attention span is the fascination with the quotation. Plan files
are by no means protected from this phenomenon; in fact, many peoples plans (including my own) feed off this. The only real drawback to the quotation method is that the material isnt original, unless you throw in the good one-liners from your everyday life. Other than that, its a solid choice  your quote choices can say a lot, and it makes for good reading at the other end.So get out there and get yourself a worthy plan file. If you havent touched it since CSW, shame on you! You may think the Andrew system is a haven for stereotypical geeks, but youd be surprised at how many normal people, folks just like you and me, read these things. Even if you dont mind being viewed as terminally boring, whip up something so that the rest of us will have some good reading material.
Jason McDonald is a senior 
IM major who has nothing bet
ter to do until graduation except 
read other peoples plan files.
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper 
Since 1906
Editor-in-Chief................Heidi Hoover
Managing Editor............M.K. Rodgers
Business Mgr...........Timothy S. Blass
News Editor...........Brendan McFeely
Sports Editor....................Tracy Hayes
Features Editor............Amy Potthast
Diversions Editor............Marni Borek
Calendar Editor........Tara M. Seman
Magazine Editor.....Stephen Glicker
Dossier Literary Ed. .Tamara Llebert 
Dossier Design Editor ...Hans Wang
Art Editor............................Daniel Frey
Photo Editor...............Josh Freeman
Production Mgr..................Tina L. Urso
Copy Manager...........Jennifer Forbes
Systems Mgr..............Chad McDaniel
Asst. Business Mgr.Sharyn Rotunno 
Asst. News Editor...Jason McDonald 
Asst. Forum Editor ....Richard Quinn 
Asst. Sports Editor ....Robby Findler
Asst. Features Editor.....Laura Palanker
Asst Diversions Ed............Aaron Jenkins
Asst. Art Editors........Samuel Greenfield
Barbara Reyes
Photo Staff Manager..........Hsin-I Chow
Asst Production Mgrs......Katie Swango
Derek Wahila 
Darkroom Manager ..Cesar Sanchez
Contributing Editors 
Susan Abrams, Megan Dietz, Tad 
Dockstader, Nathan Fullerton, Ellen 
Hendrickson, Mark Hillier, Dexter 
Kobayashi, Thomas Nichols, Alim Ray, 
Ignatius Sasmita, Rhonda Struminger
Senior Staff 
Waseem Hussain, Dave Martin, Rich 
Robinson, Mike Shapiro, Randy 
Udavcak, A. Franklin Wheeler
Staffwriters 
Nicole Allen, Sara Barton, Jeff Basista, 
Marni Blake, Matt Bushey, Alison 
Carter, Chris Cenkner,Trinette Chan
dler, Michael Colaianne, Andrew 
Cosentino, Daryl Davis, Bob Dixon, 
Dan Gallagher, Sean Goller, Erin 
Grunzke, David Hunt, Lubomir 
Kochanskyij, Mike Kunsmann, Farron 
Levy, Chris Maples, Corri Metz, Trupti 
Patel, Abby Schiff, Kelly Sterling, 
Wendy Tuggle, Christian Restifo, 
Tricia Williams, Jason Wyse, Mary 
Yee, Leslie Zubaty 
Art
Jeff Dorsey, Ramsey Hong, Roy Huang
Comics
Michael Beard, Julian Hollingshead, 
Matt Goldberg, Jonathan Lyness, Seth 
Magnum, CraigMrusek, Drew Olbrich, 
Scott Pakin, Andrew Plotkin, Elliott 
Schiff, Patrick Soo Hoo, Ken Tanaka, 
Jen Thorson, Nick Wardigo 
Photo
Debbie Bauer, Kevin Chen, David 
Docktor, Diane Keen, Seth 
Redmore
Darkroom 
Augustine Kuo, Jessica Miller, Erik 
Ogan
Production 
Kishor K. Rao, Albert Hong 
Design 
Matt Adler, Brian Stewart
Copy
Erin Bailey, Susan R. Baker, Molly 
Dalkiewicz, Benjamin Griffin, Angela 
Keslar, Katherine Lestock, BillLucier, 
Larkin Rogers, Chanda Sanders, 
Patricia Williams
Business
Edward Bella
Junior Staff 
Mark Alberts, J. Anthony, Tom 
Bunyavanich, Elizabeth Chambers, 
Franklin Chang, Veronica Connolly, 
Tony DeRosa, Germain DeSeve, John 
Funge, John Jantos, Jeannie Kim, 
Tracy Kroop, Kristin Lepage, Paolo V. 
Malabuyo, Shari Morgan, Paul 
Platosh, Chris Reddick, Cathy Saum, 
Kayt Sukel, Oliver Williams, Lisa Wil
son
The Tartan is the student newspaper of Carnegie 
Mellon University. It is a weekly newspaper pub
lished by students during the fall and spring semes
ters, at no cost to members of the University 
community. It is printed by Western Pennsylvania 
Printing, Inc. Subscriptions are available for the 
semester or aoademlc year. The editorials appear
ing at the beginning of the opinion section are the 
official opinion of The Tartan editorial board. Col
umns and political cartoons are the opinions of 
individual creators. The Tartan reserves the right to 
reject or condense any column or political cartoon. 
Letters to the Editor are opinions of authors who 
are usually, but not necessarily, members of the 
University community. A letter intended for publica
tion must be signed and include the writer's address 
and phone number for verification. Names will be 
withheld upon request. The Tartan requests that 
letters be no longer than 350 words. The Tartan 
reserves the right to condense or reject any letter. 
Copyright  1992 by Tho Tartan. The Tartan edito
rial board reserves the right to withhold from publi
cation any copy it deems unfit for publication. 
Office: Skibo 50 (412) 268-2111 
Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/Carnegie 
Mellon University/Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890 
17 percent funded by the Activities Fee 
All rights reserved.
Ubrary of Congress ISSN #: 0890-3107.
wl.u28 v2o I.CP 2v uC322I usmom6 .6 Api C286lnsI.6le
U v rao6 ty6,2
Alas, Carnival has come and gone. For me, this was my third carnival. It seems that every year I do something a little different, and learn something new about thib magical event. Truly, what is it that makes those thtfee days in April so unique?The obvious answer is that it's a time when CMU students party, blow off work, and in general get a little waeky. Put another way, Carnival is a time when we escape the weight of CMUs everyday atmosphere, and have some spirit.Now, this brings me to my point. Why is CMU so spiritless that it takes Carnival to coax any energy out of the bulk of the student body? It is almost as if all of CMUs school spirit is bottled up into the three days of C&rnival, leaving the rest of the year for dissatisfaction.!t)MUs school spirit is perhaps the biggest problem this school faces, for lack of spirit insidiously infects most all aspects of our university environment. CMU has a wealth of Scottish tradition, but a laughable amount of spirit to support that tradition.Each year booth and buggy prove the value of spirit. C6ntinually, I am amazed at the effort spent on these 
seehiingly foolish activities. People stay up night after night working hour after hour, and for what? A trophy? Id imagine not. Of course, I can only speak for myself,
but Id say that most inconvenience themselves to participate in Carnival because it is Carnival. Thats the effect of spirit. Imagine how much better a place CMU would be if people were as animated about CMU as they are about Carnival.Since most would probably agree that CMU is lacking in spirit, the question then becomes why? Where does school spirit come from, and where did ours go?Perhaps the deepest well of school spirit is found in athletic competition. How can students at Division I schools like Michigan and Penn State not get excited when their sports teams are constantly making headlines? Ive met alumni from the class of 1938, when the Tech Skibos (the football team) played teams like Notre Dame, that cant stop raving about this school some sixty plus years later. Thats spirit.Aside from the satisfaction derived from athletic attention, sports rivalry bolsters school spirit. Yet what rivalry is there at CMU? Does anyone say Ooo, were gonna get Brandeis this weekend? Probably not. Most of the campus, outside athletic circles, doesnt know or care how the teams do. Thats wrong. I wonder if other schools in our conference suffer from similar spirit problems since there doesnt seem to be much rivalry in the UAA conference.Of course, sports arent the only source of school spirit. Another important ingredient for spirit is student satisfaction. However, this is where the problem becomes chicken and egg, for a large part of satisfaction might be derived from school spirit.Either way, there is a close interaction between spirit and satisfaction, and CMU fumbles on both points. If a student feels that he or she is really benefitting from
CMU, both in class and out of class then that student will be excited about CMU.However, our fair school manages to dissatisfy its students to an extent where one of the most satisfying things for a CMU student is to complain about CMU. Thats not spirit.There are some logistical difficulties that attribute to some of CMUs lack of spirit. Being a city school, there is always a lot going on that competes for students attention. As a result, CMU events might seem somewhat mundane, and go unsupported.Another unavoidable challenge to CMUs spirit is the fact that CMU is changing and expanding. While major construction is underway the quality of campus life goes down, taking a toll on school spirit.Unfortunately, once school spirit is low, it becomes incredibly hard to change, for there will always be jaded upperclassmen to affect open-minded freshmen. Additionally, when spirit is low, attention is focused on the negative, and positive things go unnoticed.I will not attempt to suggest how to turn around this spirit problem, for I find myself coming up with trite suggestions such as give the students more of what they want. Besides, there are people in Warner Hall who get paid a lot of money to come up with the solutions. I merely hope to offer a reminder to someone that something has got to be done. Inevitably, any changes will take a long time to have an affect. So please do something noticeable, and do it quickly. Take some of the Carnival magic, and sprinkle it throughout the rest of the year.
John Funge is a junior electrical engineering major.
But the plan text itself reveals even 
more about people, aside from their 
favorite music and the names of 
their cats.

---------------------------------------------------

8The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  13 April 1992
A PERSONS
O P' I N ' I ON
Last Sunday the National 
Organization of Women or
ganized a pro-choice march 
in Washington, D.C. What 
do you think about the 
march?
David FogelFreshmanH&SS
Its good that they can get so many people together and it is a good way to express their opinion. I have a couple of friends who went.
RavenSeniorArt
I think it was necessary to be done. Mr. George Bush thinks he knows everybodys rights according to his own moral standards. He is a betrayer of women and human kind.
Rich SiemerSeniorArchitecture
I support the march. I think it is one way to have a change in government. It has to go farther; people need to start electing government officials that will do something about it.
Meredith Wilson SeniorIndustrial Design
I was there. I think that it was really important to go if you support pro-choice. It is really important to go out and be counted to support issues.
Thomas Nichols/Contributing Editor 
Michael BeardFreshmanArt2I think that it is some thing we need to discuss. By marching it helps open disf cussion and maybe something can be done.
Movement deceives many
-I
PRO-LIFE, from page 7
pro-life movement. For example, a favorite tactic is to show the remains of , an abortion. Usually, the pictures shown are third trimester abortions. Most abortions, however, are performed long before this period. In fact, 94 percent of all abortions occur within the first trimester. A little less than six percent occur during the next trimester, and only one in 1000 abortions are obtained duringthe final trimester. The pictures  the pro-life groups show are severely misleading.One of the most subtle methods used is to misrepresent the age of the fetus. Pro-choice people mark the time of development since conception. Pro-life advocates typically choose the time since the last menstruation as the starting point. Thus, there is approximately a two- week difference. So, when a prolife person shows you a picture of a fetus, it is actually at least two weeks younger than what is said. While this may seem like Im arguing semantics, it is important to keep the distinction in mind. What they claim to be an aborted 
\ fetus during the first or second trimester may actually be a second or third trimester abortion.With the appointment of Judge Clarence Thomas to an already conservative Supreme Court and the recent influx of state laws designed to test the mettle of Roe vs. Wade, it might seem as though abortion is living out its last days here in the U.S. Remember, though, the consequences of a reversal.First, you will have liberal states that allow abortion and more conserva
tive ones that harshly restrict it. As a result, women who have money will be able to travel to those states that offer it while poorer women, those often least capable of handling the cost of raising a child, will be denied access to abortion.Second, all sorts of nasty legal entanglements crop up. For example, if a 15- year-old girl travels from one state to another to get an abortion, what state laws hold? If parental consent is
Instead of offering 
simplistic solutions 
that do little to help 
people, those in the 
pro-life movement 
should channel their 
energies elsewhere.
required, is it the home state that must enforce it? If abortion is outlawed completely in the girls state, can the state take action for an abortion received in another state? If youll remember the current debate in Ireland, serious concerns about freedom of travel come into play.Finally, home and back alley abortions will become the only viable alternatives. The Student Union set off a veritable flame war when it published directions on how to perform a menstrual extraction. I have several problems with the idea of this procedure.
Although it is simple and can be performed by just about anyone, there is still the chance of complications. You should at least have a trained doctor or medical technician around should anything happen.Abortion is a sticky subject. Those in the pro-life movement often ignore the individuals, the women who are the ones dealing with the decision to abort, carry to term, or give up the baby for adoption. Instead of offering simplistic solutions that do little to help people, those in the pro-life movement should channel their energies elsewhere. If birth control were made widely available, if people could be convinced to adopt not just only healthy white babies but also the sick, the deformed, black, Asian, etc., if pro-life people would put half as much energy into preventing pregnancy and working with, not against, pregnant women, I feel abortion would become a very rare occurrence.Remember, many of us in the pro- choice camp are also personally antiabortion. I know of no one who is gungho for abortion. However, we realize that as human beings, women deserve the respect and the right to control their own bodies and make their own moral decisions. In short, they deserve the right to develop their own solutions to their own problems.
Christian M. Restifo is a junior chemi
cal engineering major. He would like to 
thank Scott Safier for his help in re
searching the information for this colGlobal warming. Destruction of the rain forests. Toxic waste. These arent the legacies we 
wanted from the  environmental" President. Urge George Bush to attend the U.N. Earth 
Summit in Brazil in June. Right now. the United Stales is the only major industrial power 
refusing to do its pan. Ask the President to slop America's role as leading producer of 
greenhouse gases. Tell him to support the global treaty for reducing carbon dioxide 
emissions, ban the exportation of toxic waste, and save the world's rain forests. The 
President is the only person who can effectively lead the straggle for our planet's future.
Germanys Beautiful Babes  Scobell A Virility  Greeks  Student Involvment  Student 
Senate  Athletic Facilities  Womens Issues  Enrollment  Student Health  Retfo 
and His 5:30 am discussions  Politics  Funding 0 Football Field  Student Affairs 
Annoying Assistants  Construction  Overcrowding  You  No, You  Sororities  Back 
lim  Dining Service 0 Environment0 The Hitcher  Exercise  Congress
Geeks  Alcohol 
Muppets  Mail 
Mary Kayes Sex 
il^wns  SEL 
Jffih Optimism
 Stephens Volume  Dans Hair 0 Funding  Student Affairs  Construction  Dixonj^nd 
His Non-Women  Rape Trials  Murphys Law  Charities  Dining Service  Environ
ment  Hostages 0 Recycling  Congress  Middle East  W.eather  Advising  Se  
Geeks  Alcohol  Politically Correct  Drugs  Budget  Music  Mighty Mouse  Comedy 
The-Flag  Woody Allen  Funding # Student Affairs  OK, Me  University Ce] 
Track Field  Grand Puh-Bah e Constitution  Activities Board  Gymnasium
Y Center  
Hu^
S1EET HHR
REGISTRATION WEEK
8mLe-z sO wL11 k99 d1Lee etLt.eJ
GRADUATES4TH/5TH YR 
SENIORS
JUNIORSSOPHOMORESALL OTHERS
:sOzLq 
LBr,1 5
:sOzLq 
LBr,1 5
t.-ezLq 
LBr,1 k
I-zO-ezLq 
LBr,1 
wr,zLq 
LBr,1 H
1II u6tel86l u32tIe olb I.6lo etom8b wlbmu6o.6m28 N..P hv 63la yI.3 62 .8o2II I2o S.II THHRM hh a2t y28J6 r. ol6to8m8b BI2o ol.u28u 263uo 63.8 
bo.et.6m28k9 ltrnI6 .8 1ssImC.6m28 v2o Nm63eo.y.I 2o El.gl 2I 1rll8Cl Bn.oPle DSlII THHRDd 62 63l wlbI.6o.oJ. LvvmClM N.o8lo clII R-TM
1II Ctool86Ial8o2IIle ptel86l ymII vIol6 olClmgl . fm2bo.s3mC ise.6l U3ll6 l8e . Il66lo lYsIlI8I8b 63l olbI.6o.6I28 so2Cll. olgmly 63l fm2 
ise.6l U3ll69 n.Pl C2oolC6 h28. .8e ltrn66 63l v2on 62 63l wlbIl6oloJl LvvmCl Bhv 63lol .ol 82 C3.8bllM Plls 63l v2ondM 1 wlbI.6o.6I28F1eeFLo2s 
v2on hu u8CI2ule h8 l.C3 Fall 1092 UC3letIl ol TarrtnS lg.II.rIl .6 63l UPIr2 h8v2on.6m28 =llP9 2t6lIel 63l AS1 =l.8^. LvvmCl .8e h8.Iel 
6mPl n.m8 l86o.8Clu 62 f.Plo cui u8e =23lo6a c.IIM
HQWTQ REGISTER
TM VIlvC ts . Fall 1002 Schedule of Classas with Registration/Add/Dr op v2on m8umelM
RM VI.8 C2to u2 ulIlC6m284 .8e uI6lo8u6Ig6u ym63 a2to uegIu2o9 .8e 2r6.m8 a2to .egm.2oJ. .sso2g.I 28 63. w1=M p.8a .egmu2ou ymII lY6l8e 
2vvmCl 32tou etom8b wlbmu6o.6m28 C286.C6 a2tou v2o uslCmvmC m8v2on.6m28M w1= v2onu ym632t6 uegmu2o .sso2g.I ymII 826 
rl so2CluuleM
UM 2 62 63l els.o6nl86u 6l.C3m8b 63l 22tollBud m8 y3mC3 a2t ymu3 62 olbIu6uo on your registration day (or afterU rl6yll8 HW- 1p .8e 5-- VpM 
(3l els.o6nl86 6.o6mI l86lo 63l 22tollB.d emolC6Ia h862 a2to uC3letIl 28 63l U6tel86 h8v2on.6m28 Uau6ln u8e umb8 .sso2g.I 28 63l w1=M 
wlnlnrlo 63.6 hv a2t .ol 28 . Dy.m6 Imu6D v2o . C2tolu9 a2t .ol 826 olbmu6lole v2o 63l C2toul a2t ntu6 uee 63l C2toul I.6lo Bhv .sso2gledM
5M wl6to8 63l C2nsIl6le9 umb8le wlbIu6o.6I28F1eeF=o2s v2on 62 a2to els.o6nl86M (3l b2Iel8o2e C2sa mu a2tou 62 PllsM
P.8. Approximately ona waak attar Registration Waak you will receive confirmation of your course acedule In the mall.
P.P.S. Your department may conduct a "pre-reglstratlon D prior to Registration Week. They'll send you Instructions If necessary.

---------------------------------------------------

Doonesbi
BY GARRY TRUDEAUfwiie riFusES\R*> WEST OF THE *ULT
LINE, AND LONG ADD fEP TOALTERNATIVE MIND-SET BROWN'S 
HIGHERseiF" HAS [0LY5P...
rfjkn'ULVttJ,\ JERRY BRQU/N.
ttfASE! IimiTTD 
BE ABIE TO IGNORE 
/ WULATER!ONLY LARGB 
BM5, FLEAS6! 
ItWNTFOR" GET YOU!
CaUFornia^^
By4Firis
>, Doonesb
BY GARRYTOUD^ffeOVcRttORBRauNN6KnP0P
vcmrsuiHAT -fy vcmrscvuea''/ouPBSCHAUy. \
P'ENTmuSHTHEr uj$J0UR.M&sfl vOTBR5 CCN'r S55W TOKfiUYUKett-eaSudBy4Fi
nfj fopchlM cAzn/UJOKXTTW.eOOFYCLOTHeS.HAVBTOUEOR.TOMBeTMEM!
Dontsbury
I mZlHRolt 
feSSSSS
sa?WSs\00N7RJBUTED7D k
/ OF WHICH -------
I doIp g9SEF 15L8Nh 
/ MNMlNWP JNmC c . JNpkhJ
TAKe VOUJN- BEH&ns?\/!T. TE5R! 'jT^2iIP
SSTop Lyna
Trnm'alumIfflsssgi
PRBTry z /^N,
Tb^rrR CjvNc 
Thjypc^w cov&Kyou
,Cov Oohv d
UH-HUH 
WHAT 
CAN I 
00 FOR
f UH... HAVE I YOU READ n? FiAP&Tj CXWCOLICCKFORWHICH
JERRY?
REMEMBER THE MAYBE
P&JMIKE JOKE THAT PEOPLE 
KEW&TOLPABOUTVE SAW SOME 
AUD THE LESBIAN' TRUTH
EVERYONERUSHEP IN IT, SIR.
TO DEFEND KERREY,
ry, HtF etmeevn^g po2oUO/
Ibmi'YOUGUYS 
STILL D0N7 GET IT! 
THE ELITE, CORRUPT ftTAeU9!MMTMm 
HAVE TRltP TO IGNORE 
THI5CMMN FKOM m vrnmmm!
GOVERNOR BROUN, DO YC 
PEAWY THINK YOU CAN B 
ANYTHING OTHCR THAN 
SPOILER IN THIS RACE?
NO,THAT 
YOU WERE 
A JOKE.
THAT I 
WAS A 1^N2jypg
r*'f v4rtt>c< * vi

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

gt*'
flETtt 1*7: hefhstivvam rt socu AS "PAftlldG," 
^gErr-e" w\ult& the 
UfOPteASA^T ^'ScvjSSionS.
' ADVEtfjufits- or. .,5o: vVVien are ^bu goi'n^ to 
me <3- jfanJrnoVie^ h^mr?
/^A, CUT XT OOT 
ALREADY/
i0lj is secetTci HuoPUCATEC? MISHMASH ft6U*JSS, OfOWfiftftWT{o ur4SP6fttneue OeTEBlWlACjETO Love.
miiOG? Co^JveoU THE iiflPPBoAcrt love-- n*e oofe oprC roe Pow&e,IHPEi>OG f06Ec> Fop. 
ffcMte, fttoc? Our BcsSiC- EftVifJG?, i i i
have  3
7^> ]r ^^'a
f-V)fe 
/ ; mamkVo rJOv)d
(to ^ -yCornee >ec /in O. while.
1 Laboriously 
deV\\edby 
/viiKe 
5 Ina pi CO
PerU *<* 
ice
Ak;
ycrvJ 11~ I e\lt(-/on(L
* TVfe / hefe '5 /I  c nT /ny
Oo ^i/ iVor 
indicted
Celebri0
hr*!1oh mcts-r
Charc,
RaCK off, mani 
evil
tftfte of youR. -TTc 
PlBST STEP TOtOAP.C> ilHEAWH.
^jr> a. vn111 lc- I * *
@c=l
/^A/elJ, ^re jr-S*+oMn4l Jo&sn-t loSe Sleep 
VJorryiotx. s^t yu at ^e|
\ _ tvi/i rBa^/ryj/rw an 
villain in /  j
 / 2AP81 fi*f TRWiRXUriitmB
ges;
!f\r> yo<JJCe So shinny I why
Cunt you 6c lire yaur nitre  Frienj 8ot> ?
vh vFfer.'AC>c^y,
, _____-(^sjf?5t- I l
WH-T
pi^hT000-
 ?
^oKirJAi- 'q '
boot ^ 
PeeS^ "T!^ 
_________.
iLr"
? -to p^e^T PKo^ ^"^2.^ LL- ^oF UP 'U,
P.5T6
\1A ^fJlCiUe nvCClw vdu
r77^R^Te':>0,"J * A* MS^ D5.
ft--rrr -r d
rn^-tO\TV+
MV*\ '
vV
o
0
SRP*^
DPVRe6
tEWP'giMURSiASn?^ TCAP
gORvJ|Kj^
!AudfOn
THE
OFFSOOTH :
-Ss
-y

&V <^ZAk. W NklK 'T_
i
<
.

D Copyright 1992 by Scott Pakin
xT >L-QL^fa/-\__

---------------------------------------------------

By GARY LARSON
Calvin and Hobbesby Bill Watterson
Do iCU BELIEVE IN 
THE DEVIL? VOUKHQW, 
A SUPREME EVIL BEING 
DMCMED TO TVE 
TEMPTATION, CORRUPTION, 
AMO DESTRUCTION OF MAH?
W JUST CANT TN.K 
TO MtlMALS A80JT 
THESE TmNSS.
plemlg.I C3mCPl8 C22su
VWKt'sTHIS'
WHM'S 
W HERE? 
GRUBS?*
TMK MEKNSrw sows
TD UA.TC 
IT, RIGHT ?
SUt'S MAD BECAUSE I 
BROKE UERCOOE.
Hi
*8SSV'a
ISRlGHrBy GARY LARSOl
LARSOH
I'M 8VJSW TRYING 
TO FIX 50MCTHIHG.
m BOTHER? CM ML RARE 
OCCASIONS WHEN YOU KNOW 
WHAT m PftOBlM \s, n) 
USUAlLy MAKE. IT WORSE 
AND. HURT tNRSELF .yb dgmhMaeeSA Et
I WlSU I'D NOTICED 
TUE BANDEE ON HIS 
HAND BEFORE I SAID IHM.
=.8Cl 2v 63l fllPllslou
NHATS SO 
FVJ NNX ?
rw GOINS ON 
A BIKE R\DE.
LOOK. I 9\WT DESIGN THIS 
OJTFIT7 \TS PRACTICAL
HEXT TIME, ILL SQUIRT
By4F irBy stBy wf
WATER. BOTTLE. JNOTHING. 
UNE A 
GOOD TIME
HE1 DAD, UOWD 
YOV) GET 'tOVJR 
UEAD STV>CK IH 
A BOHUNG 
. BAH? HA/
1u )aJlu Il6Knotted pSD
826 62 s.6'T
By GARY LARSON
Calvin and Hobbesby Bill Watterson
now -r you jusr\n 
_ CURSELP ?/ ,___-
TIGERS HAVE fcK) AMB\T\0N, 
NO DRWE / VAi DONT 
, ACEDMPUSH ANTTUING/
A/IBp
c2Ia C2y' N3.6Ju b266l8
Lhc n4l4 
0m4IkiR

---------------------------------------------------

rWhafs a Wendell?
by Matt Goldberg
HENRY
VREET
the op1O MAN in 
AMERICA WITH A 
TOASTER STUCK ON 
HIS RI6HT HAW'D
HENRY DREAMS.
MY Gob - jc,N
NOT A TOASTER 
AT y11 a
IT'S A MICROWAVE 
OVEN/ ' !
I CAN'T MOVG - 
I CAN)'T LIFT IT I 
WHAT CAM 1*00?
y^w, f/fu-or
H6WRY, IT'S 
L-EWlS'. CANi-EVVIs, VVHY^?^ c*lua/g fl**e 
this Hour? (r
/7'5 XfKfA 
/IV 77-VE MORA//A/G
?HNRY, OUST TURN ON 
j THE cUd NEWS, RIGHT^ 
NOWWHAT"- J
JU$T 7V/?<V IT 
*ON. X THINK 
IT'S S0MCTH/W6 ' 
VoU ShJOULb HEAfrj 
CHAWGL V.j
DckaBA!.d ,
6.uI
J/qGA^'
x rr
|J>U TO A 5rDyvv:. 
i flCCIVENT, THB LlKii 
.P3 TAjLA yA:d \nAfUi seerJ 
I
- A MAN LIV/M6 /A/ 
TA^^hjp8R T^Nc Unny 
Mow HAS A TOASTZIZ 
9:vntkp^pcrO STUC/ ,ou HIS LBFT mcts
w,
m mMO 9:ni
To kfc CofieJkuJcd.
Af-t> NO*, FOR <iOOl? 
oo
ErJ-yDtjnENT, -j^e COajtiuu/a/^Hl^H- FATKjUg- S/\5A >F...
^ S?,
^ I I u.7X.t/K (tm^
(vhiSh Fe "sedeer")
fft>P0ceI> &/: 7J?pJ CtgR/CH -*+*> 'tCoR~r SCHAET^R, ESQUjPF
1"^ 71
pew -A S^S7*, tWttPl 
*4.T6C By4F SML+4D eoytfORZl&UE Ier *cT ^
wt ffiSAi^ coif>n rr
T* ct* cvio fl/fM wwIMf Aip op papist ^FcTftO^ie^''(/ (>es ,'Q Qt&t&y)
f&fczt
^E5,pJH1
''J0QD / 
M**, IfcJT
^V-> I/O
^iCT I
A SPEZIA- CRAcfc TEAM c?F 
Gouera^He'f fJDQ> AT- RfS^RCHKi 
Fjr Lvcoot Tfte fr-e^s la C,l 
HWU[RT F ,^tr ,s yfT 
vyjO HrtHT t/vir,? Ee RiVeAwrO ex
OfSCOUQjBp ^\Baur, ...jXG-=mG&Xv7yFF
&V-1M/7 OK o</ //]
rv'tf > oo^ wAL 
pee1*1 ;L= M**'
od
is oa?
, s>, peaL (,Ld),Ida MelTL*e es*+GE)JL+ L
MOKE... ms SorTcwcp o#^..
AifiStr*A< JA
, ^ ,v*nfc
, of ffL .Ol -
Tu:LYT seQ$W I icr -B, ^k/~c,
fil osj^cc
<-,.1Ir aoo. ,,1' -N Wffi tveXT'n'escA1,
of-> j i/'i'rE- .ceeTicvo ^ ^ SA^c, PA/e-n^Gc /+-Blfo"* 7LNoixa woa First-eax D DI rtisi**,, Toe^J;
eaB up p/rcsfto ^vKV( 
Au,n!!//
Co-oS/ HfPAOI^<)\ 
NV' Sud p>< MAPKi^/
-K0
>-_-
8W+
PU?y. GUIDE jTVolume8ml6.Is2
1Wtiirdtodt
TO BE 
OR NOT
I)q L: V es L1sT0-+$
/ //' \ / /.*** //'''S'*/ ,/ bcccjyse you are 4he_ /' "aggf'iga+c o-f^'/oCces
/ / <W Vices of oi;r uoWoit j// <|}enera+ion in ^ir-f^iecf
3our poov pos+ure b*Wes
an ir\r\cr eAemon orwnn>toivd ch.Methooc/^ruj^lJ J
r
L
s F.M Cl
U &MicS
/fa. i / ^ 
mmlol
/WA^/cfT R&mcH 
For idiots.
VEKfKUby LT. c2o628
/fOHf T0 6fT A ftE/UrWKD Jo* AfTEK COLLE6EF^/a/t up /i peu/vi at 
BtbBJqHd tIc r srt-ea
NJkafkm yth*oBP jcR ypf WlTe A(AME /A/g[6 orrtic L.eTVEP-s
AND RfMEAlStE<j$e A <z 7-/ 5/1/ 
Vf2-SS/
/ILA/t iVTH Yt/ye AESU/Vl, SErJP A-Cov/E'y / Lenep- rp-'^Tzo lun tlerlAncilC3A MA/^T0SK LAS& rfi-'rJTE- you/2l p*o$recT\''e e^PL-oyets seTo U^H'G'P T K-/V  y 5/0'T 7H Taa TH 6 
5AAA.e /MASS-re-ooiJcep te-rree. you yg-AJr 
TO 300 OTltS/2- 03AAPAAJ is^-
AT VOUP /A/TE/tvieiv r
vVE-Af2- rtA^/> 5-HOES.p0rj r tt 6(_>a^-
t v^AS o ** ,v'"< 
ftitoiiL peA-re iao-M. : . 
x ceA^/^ep nfjoSpchclMBtAz/MhTL 
ueAoeASH-/^ aajp ^
vooftH/,J> Ar >*/p-'/QOE-eN- u
WM MOM fEAJT /oo
THI ^'T ) ^
ki+6ki you wsw F, yo'^l se" -TTi+e i(-d0k*) qAa9Jas wu/tKEA-see u/Pefifjkac^f Y YOUR- PAV?ire 5TAPS , .
TU SHfluuS ''VHi^-TY-SoMerH//U6," Spzj tbt^R Cv 
Nw,Odg 2COUd ccOAjof-^IrJO C,!f-L "_______________

---------------------------------------------------

Are you having trouble deciding what classes to take next 
semester?
Would you like to have more variety in your schedule?
BECOME A PHILOSOPHER !
The Philosophy Department is offering a diverse selection of courses 
in ETHICS, LOGIC AND ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE, and 
COMPUTATIONAL LINGUISTICS
ETHICSLOGICCOMPUTATIONALLINGUISTICS
80-241/741 Professional Ethics
8-Q--.235/73S Seminar onPolitical Philosophy
80-230Ethics:An Introduction
ZD'CD'' ZCC'DkZ'Knowledge & Nature ofTruth Language
ZC'CDC'Minds,Machines & Knowledge
New Maior BS/MS 5 YR. Program
80-210Self-Paced Logic 
8.Q.-211Arguments and Inquiry
8Q-31Q Logic and Computability I
Visit the Department located at Baker Hall 135 (x8568), to discuss PHILOSOPHY!
Come and discuss your views of your race, other races, and how they relate to one another. Find out how your race is perceived by others, and give reasons why these thoughts are accurate or erroneous.M
FOCAL
POINT
Speakers Include:
Michael Murphy - Dean of Student AffairsHarriet Schwartz - Assistant to the Dean of Student AffairsLisa Lipscomb - Assistant to the Dean of Student AffairsGrace Pan - Senior Computer ProgrammerEverett Tademy - Director of Equal OpportunitiesHoa Trinh - Focal Point
Sponsored by:Focal Point Spirit Student Affairs Equal Opportunities
REFRESHMENTS will be FRD1IDEII
Ftutd by ynu 3tuda I Actwirtu Fh

---------------------------------------------------

CMU competes at Invitational
PRESS PASS
by Jason McDonald
True meaning of 
Sweepstakes
revealed\Well, at least I can cross pushing a buggy in Sweepstakes off my list of things to do before I graduate. After spending two years on the journalistic end of Sweepstakes I finally decided to become an active participant this year as part of my quest to be the complete Renaissance man.I was reasonably pleased when I got placed on Pioneers B-team. Sure, everyone wants t.o be on A-team, but those of us who run like cold molasses take what we get. What did come as a surprise was that B- team would be pushing Tsunami, the new buggy (so new that it wasnt even listed in the Buggy Book) that was entered in the design competition. On one hand, wed be pushing the buggy that was feartured on the T-shirts; on the flip side, the burden of a top third finish was dropped in our laps out of the blue.The mix of nervousness and excitement made me a bundle of nerves on race day. Just for a nervousness warm-up, I lay awake staring at the clock between 2:30 and 4:30 in the morning. During the womens heats and the early mens heats I paced back and forth on the front hills, not even really paying attention to the races. And then, all of a sudden, when I reached my hill to run the heat, a strange calm hit me  I was ready to roll.Little did we know that our day was done before we even ran. Since Tsunami was damaged in a collision during its womens race, the freeroll portion of the mens race left- much to be desired. After leaving Hill Two solidly in second, Tsunami came up the back hills a distant third. Already knowing what I was going to see, I went up to the finish just in time to see the time go on the board.After the two and the pair of threes were put on the board, I stopped looking. Two semesters of hard work and twisted schedules down the drain, was literally all I could think. Even the later revelation of the sick buggy (getting myself and the other four pushers off i the hook) didnt make me feel : much better  as far as I knew, Sweepstakes was over.However, things were put 
1 back in perspective when the womens B-team re-rolled and made the top third. Athletics are a pretty megalomaniacal,: result-oriented business, and 1 it took that second-place ! design trophy and a little champagne in my hair to refresh my memory as to why I got involved in Buggy in the first place.The trophies alone arent ! important. What our push team could have done with a healthy Tsunami isnt important. Sure, you race to win, but you also race to be part of the Carnival atmosphere. Whether the final time was 2:33, 2:03,; or a Limo-esque five hours, we ; got to be a part of the race-day excitement.Of course, that doesnt mean I cant try to beat 2:33 when I come back for alumni races next year.
Tartan Assistant News 
Editor Jason McDonald is a 
senior IM major.
\V
By GALINA FERRELL
Special to The Tartan
Carnegie Mellon hosted an invitational meet for both Division II and Division III teams yesterday at Gesling Stadium. Included were participants from Allegheny College, Catholic College, Denison College, Frostburg State College, Glennville State College, Indiana University of Pennsylvania, the University of Pittsurgh, University of Pittsburgh at Johnstown, Slippery Rock University, Washington and Jefferson College, West Virginia State College, West Virginia Wesleyan, Wooster College, and Carnegie Mellon.In the 10,000-meter run, senior Jonathon Frieder placed second with a time of 32:51.0. Matt Larmore, representing Frostburg State, ran a time of 30:56.5, cominginfirst. Larmore set a new stadium record and qualified for the NCAA championships.Senior Carolyn Lowe ran a record-setting time of 36:46.00 in the 10,000-meter run. Lowe won first place as well as setting new stadium and school records, and qualifying for NCAA championships. Serena Fraser from Allegheny College, coming in second, also ran a qualifying time of 37:10.00.The mens 400-meter relay team placed eighth with a time of 44.16 seconds. Teams from Indiana University, Allegheny College, and Frostburg State all qualified for NCAA championships with 41.41, 41.59, 41.88 second times respectively. Indianas team also set a new stadium record.,CMU freshman Jason Grusky threw 44' 7" in the shot put, placing fourth.In the 3,000-meter run, coming in third with a time of 11:16.9 was senior Emily Burke. Trailing behind was teammate junior Wendy Evans, placing sixth
at 11:51.Junior Laura Sibley placed sixth in the 1,500-meter race with a time of 5:08.1. In the mens heat, sophomore Eric Tabor ran a 4:15.8 race, coming in sixth.In both the mens long jump and triple jump freshman Tushar Gohel placed fifth. He jumped20' 8.25"inthelongjump and 42' in the long jump.Stadium records were also set in both events. Mark Marando from Wooster set the long jump record with a 22' 6.5" jump and Russell Williams from Frostburg set a record with a 44' 3.75" triple jump.CMU freshman Jim DAmato placed fourth with a time of 14.81 seconds in the 110-meter hurdles. Only a fraction of a second behind, sophomore Deron Haley pulled in a strong seventh at 15.36 seconds. Both qualifying for NCAA championships, A1 Taylor of Indiana and Tim McCrary of Frostburg ran times of 14.09 and 14.65 seconds, respectively. Taylor also set a stadium record.In the womens 110-meter hurdles Rosalind Sholfield of Indiana tied the stadium record already set at 15.1 seconds.CMU junior Jim Hodges placed seventh with a 169' 5.25" javelin throw. Placing first and second were Robert Vranich of Indiana and Kevin Kanyan of Frostburg, both of whom qualified for NCAA championships. Kanyan threw a distance of 191 2", and Vranich a distance of 214' 8", setting a stadium record.In the womens javelin, CMU freshman Jen Gratz placed eighth with a throw of 97' 7.25". Setting a stadium record at a distance of 145'1.5", Joanne Warner of the University of Pittsburgh placed first. The second and third places were held by Krista Schlim of Johnstown and Sue McQuiston of Allegheny. They threw distances of
V'.C
* >1 
UNIVIIgnatius Sasmlta/Tartan Contributing Editor 
Junior Sean Pempel attacks the400-meter hurdles. Pempel placed second in the race.
128' 8" and 125' 1" respectively.Placing first in the discus was CMU junior Jason Lange with a throw of 139' 8". Teammate freshman Kevin Keir came in eighth throwing a distance of 129' 5".Senior Jeff Palaima set a school record in the pole vault at a height of 14' 6". He came in second in the event. Jim Corse of Slippery Rock University placed first, setting a stadium record, at a height of 15'.In the 400-meter run Carnegie Mellon junior Brent Thomas placed fifth with a time of 51.20 seconds. Behind him was junior Andy Helms placing eighth with a time of 52.48 seconds.Caroline Hill from Denison College set a stadium record in the womens 400-meter at 59.89 seconds.CMU senior Susan Wempa set a new school record in the long jump with a 16' 75" jump. She placed second in the event, falling short fourteen inches to a jump made by Cherie Fonatella of Slippery Rock. Fonatella set
a stadium record with her 17' 2.75" jump. Sophomore Ersula Cosby placed eighth with a jump of 14'1.75".In the triple jump Cosby placed first at 33' 3.75" while Wempa placed fourth at a distance of 31' 7".Wempa also participated in the 100-meter dash. She placed eighth with a time of 14.1 seconds. Comingin first in the event was Angie Green of Frostburg State, setting a stadium record at 12.8 seconds.In the mens 5,000-meter run, sophmore Jim Langer placed fourth with a time of 15:35.4. Following behind was junior Rich Hayes with a time of 15:41, placing sixth. Coming in first and setting a stadium record was Eric Laughlin of Slippery Rock at a time of 15:11.3.Junior Sean Pempel placed second in the 400-meter hurdles at a time of55.90 seconds. John Jones of Frostburg State placed first and set a stadium record with the time 55.55 seconds.A stadium record was also set in the womens 400-meter
hurdles. Rosalind Scholfield of j! Indiana came in second with a j- time of 1:05.18.Carnegie Mellons A team for (J the 1,600-meter relay, consist- f; ing of sophomore Jarrod Sicket, !; senior Bill Isaacs, Pempel, and jj Thomas, placed fourth in the !; event with a time of 3:23.70.A stadium record was set at J 3:19.63 by Slippery Rocks A " team.Stadium records were also set 'j in the womens and mens high ! jump, mens 800-meter run, and a womens 600-meter relay.In the womens high jump the!: record was set by Fazio of Slip-'( pery Rock at a height of 5 4". ! For the mens division, Jimi McClair of Denison College tied _ the record of 6' 6". Tj3Dan Kuebler of Catholic Cof lege set the 800-meter stadium record with a time of 1:55.49.The womens 1,600-meter relay team from West Virginia Weslyan put the stadium record at 4:11.35.The next track meet will be Saturday in West Virginia.
Crews bring home five more medals
By SARAH GIBBY
Special to The Tartan
This past Carnival weekend, Carnegie Mellons crew club traveled to Charleston, West Virginia to compete in the West Virginia Governors Cup Regatta. Five of the nine crews sent, medaled.Senior Shawn Ohler,skulling his single boat, rowed himself to a trophy and gold medal by a mere half a second. I know I was close to the finish and I gave it everything I had, said Ohler.The womens novice four with coxswain took their first gold ever. Coxed by freshman Amy Lefkowitz, the boat was comprised of fifth-year architect, Lisa Johnson, junior Sarah Gibby, and freshmen Kinga Czerska and Karen Knepper. When asked if she had any comment on her crews performance Czerska, beaming, said,We won! Coach Liz Winter said that she was, looking forward to seeing them hitting their form and that the crew was set to go well for the rest of the season.
Sophomore Ruth Rasmussen, coxing the mens club four, boat A, led her crew to a gold medal finish. The medalists were, senior Shawn Ohler, freshman Mark Vanantwerp and Carnegie Mellon
swain, senior Anna Loney and junior Opal Perry brought home a silver medal. Winter, said, They did well, which can only help for the Dad Vails.In the mens pair without a coxswain,
It is an excellent set of results [which] is a 
major indication for [a good] perform ace at 
the Dad Vails."
 Head Coach Liz Winter
graduates Chris Fetter and Randy Simmons. We came from behind in fourth place and took first by three seconds, said Simmons. It was a great way to end the season for our boat. Winter also said, Having them jet in on Sunday morning to win the gold was very gratifying.In the womens pair without a coxboth Ohler and Vanantwerp won a silver medal. Ohler said, We were going against some pretty stiff competition, but it was a good hard race by everyone.Also entered in the regatta were four other boats. Amens novice four, a mens club four, a mens lightweight varsity four, and a womens novice eight.
The mens novice four made it to the finals on Sunday, but did not place. When asked about the crews performance, Winter said, They were certainly in the competition until their seat gave out. Their result does not reflect their real speed. In the mens club four, boat B, coxswain freshman Chris Maples said, having encountered some problems early on, and for not having rowed with each other before, we ended up having a satisfactory race. Both the mens varsity lightweight four and womens novice eight boats also raced well but did not place in the finals.Summing up the entire crew teams results coach Winter said, Its an excellent set of results which she added, is a major indication for performance at the Dad Vails.In two weeks the team will scrimmage at home in Pittsburgh against the University of Pittsburgh, Duquesne, Carlow, and West Virginia. In three weeks they will compete in the MACRO regatta in Columbus, Ohio.
Sarah Gibby is a member of the Crew 
club.
Lacrosse team bounces back, beats WVU
By DAVE MARTIN
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
Thursday night marked the opening of Spring Carnival, and with the opening of Carnival comes the Carnegie Mellon Carnival lacrosse game.This year, the opponent was West. Virginia University, and throughout the first quarter of the game, it looked as if they were going to ruin the opening of Carnival for the Carnegie Mellon mens lacrosse team.West Virginia had claimed a late first quarter 2-0 lead, leaving Carnegie Mellon struggling to get something done. WVU scored again, but the officials
ruled that the goal-scorer had used an illegal stick. WVU rebounded, though, and scored their third goal of the game with 31 seconds left in the quarter, leaving Carnegie Mellon wondering if they would get it back together after the tournament last week.Sophomore Dan Africk assisted senior Todd Bredbenner on a goal early in the second quarter to try to dispel fears of another loss. WVU countered with a goal of its own to take a 4- 1 lead. But that was the last goal WVU would score until late in the third quarter. We were still down from the last week in the first quarter, but I came on in
the second quarter and it sparked the defense. And the defense sparked the offense, said senior captain Peter Von- derlieth as he explained the sudden second and third quarter offensive explosions.Senior John Seekings scored CMUs second goal to cut the lead to two. Fifth-year senior Rob Kendall closed the lead further with a goal with 3:10 remaining before halftime. With 47 seconds left in the half, Bredbenner received an assist from Seekings for the game-ty- ing score.The third quarter belonged to CMU. Africk scored an easy goal after intercepting a WVU pass
to take the lead. Freshman Chris Flynn scored to make it a 6-4 game. WVU scored a goal for good measure, cutting CMUs lead to one. Kendall scored again at the 3:47 mark, followed a minute later by another Flynn goal. CMU went into the fourth quarter with a lead of three.The fourth quarters first minute clinched the game for CMU. One man up, CMU took advantage of a WVU penalty at the third quarters end. Kendall scored his third goal, with an assist from Bredbenner 14 seconds into the period. Freshman Chris Wells scored unassisted 14 seconds later to give CMU a 10-5 lead. WVU scored a goal a
minute later. Senior Eric Stonesiefer scored off an assist from Seekings midway through the quarter. Bredbenner scored the final goal for CMU with 4:13 left in the game, to make the score 12-6. WVU managed two more goals before the game-end- ing whistle, leaving CMU a 12- 8 victor.It took us some time to get into the swing of things. But then we started to click, moving around on offense, Bredbenner commented after the game. It was good to get back on track ; with a win, Vonderlieth noted. | CMU lacrosse plays the Pitts- j burgh Lacrosse Club at Gesling"' Friday night.
V/ '

---------------------------------------------------

16The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  13 April 1992
Cycling club rides again
By DAVE MARTIN
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
The Carnegie Mellon cycling team traveled to Slippery Rock yesterday morning for its second road race on the six-mile course among a field of nine teams. The weather was less than good for racing, as the course was cold and the wind blew haphazardly over the open fields that the course surrounds.The team first raced at Slippery Rock two weeks ago, and did well. Once again, the course was kind to the team members who could go to the race. Only part of the team could travel, as many members were involved in Spring Carnival clean, up.In the womens field, Carnegie Mellon student Elena Mastrangelo finished third for Carnegie Mellon, followed by sophomores Amy Thomson and Jessie Miller, who finished ^fourth and fifth respectively on the 12-mile course.
In the C race, for inexperienced riders, freshman Eric Lobeck broke away again and was decidedly victorious, though he encountered some competition during the race.Lobeck holds first place in the race series after finishing first in the only two road races he has ridden in his career. Lobeck finished with lap times two minutes faster than the more experienced B racers. After the race, Lobeck, after some ridicule for taking advantage of C racers, said All right! All right! Ill move up to B category! Freshman Matt Patton finished third in the race for CMU, securing third place in the series.Graduate student Dave Pen- ner competed in the B race, for intermediate racers, expecting a good race. The race was a slow and tight 18 miles. The finish was decided by a field sprint, in which Penner finished fourth. He intends to return to the A field after riding such a slow,2 ull (3l ftCu'
The Pittsburgh Pirates have announced their promotional schedule  if you want to get more than just a game out of your visit to Three Rivers Stadium, go to one of the 40 games that might feature not only free pins, hats, etc., but, events like fireworks night, Turn Back the Clock night, and even a post- . .game rock concert.
|Pin Nights:A series of collectible pins will be given -away over the course of the season.The first 15,000 fans will receive pins. June 19, 7:35 vs. Montreal July 3, 6:05 vs. Cincinnati August 14 , 7:35 vs. Atlanta September 18 , 7:35 vs. Philly
Turn Back the Clock Night:See the Pirates play in uniforms from 1939. May 31,1:35 vs. Giants
Family Buck Night:All general admission tickets are $1, ; and fans receive a $1 discount on parking. May 6, 7:35 vs. Atlanta June 1, 7:35 vs. L.A. June 17, 7:35 vs. Philly July 8, 7:35 vs. Houston August 19, 7:35 vs. San Diego September 16, 7:35 vs. Montreal
Huey Lewis Concert:A 90-minute concert will follow the Pi- rates-Reds game. Tickets will be $6 more ; than the usual price this day. July 5,1:35 vs. Cincinnati
going race.In the A race, sophomores Chris McGee and Mark McJun- kin raced the 24-mile course for Carnegie Mellon. The leader of the series attacked early, and McGee and McJunkin worked to bridge the pack with him. McGee survived until the final sprint, but could not manage to overtake either of the two leaders.McGee finished third, clinch- ingthird place in the series. Its fun and Im glad Im racing well, McGee commented afterward. I got beat in the sprint because I didnt do it right. I let up too early. Again. The A finisher, a racer from Slippery Rock University, won with a time of 1:01:30.The Carnegie Mellon cycling team finished third overall in yesterdays race, and holds a strong third in the series.Hoping for another strong showing, the team races again in Edinboro in two weeks.
E0In11miMsports Shorts
PA residents 
invited to compete 
in Summer Games
Entries are now being accepted for the 1992 Keystone State Summer Games. The summer games are the largest Olympic-type festival in the state, attracting nearly 13,000 amateur athletes. Any Pennsylvania resident is eligible to compete in any of the 27 sports.Regional tryouts will be held April through June. You can compete in archery, baseball, basketball, bowling, cross country, cycling  criterium, diving, field hockey, golf, gymnastics, ice hockey, judo, karate, masters swimming, rac- quetball, roller-skating, shooting, soccer, softball, swimming, synchronized swimming, table tennis, tennis, track and field, volleyball, weightlifting/powerlifting, and wrestling.You can enter the Summer Games by calling
toll-free 1-800- 445-4559, or 717-823-3164 from 9 am to 4:30 pm weekdays, or by writing to Keystone State Games, Inc., 31 South Hancock Street, Wilkes-Barre, PA 18702. Ask for the entry information booklet.
Womens lacrosse 
team loses game time
After losing the season opener to the University of Pittsburgh on Friday April 3, the womens lacrosse team planned to meet Pitt for a second time last Friday. In between games, the Tartans had managed two great wins against West Virginia University, 7-6, and Allegheny, 11-5.Unfortunately, the Tartans did not get the chance to capitalize on their winning mentality,as the two games for Carnival weekend were cancelled.Senior captain Inge Swenson says she is not sure when the next game will be, but the team plans to confront Pitt soon.
:2t8b 6l88mu 6l.nu C2nsl6l .6 i11u
By SHARYN ROTUNNO
Tartan Asst. Business Manager
The mens and womens tennis teams began their spring seasons training for this years University Athletic Conference championships. The Tartans took a trip to Hilton Head, S.C., over spring break for intense training.Individual team members played some of their best tennis against m any nationally ranked teams like Kalamazoo College, Methodist University, and Carleton University in preparation for the championships that were held April 2 through April5 at Emory University in Atlanta, Ga.While fielding, a young and inexperienced squad this year, both teams fared well in the highly competitive conference championships. The womens team finished with 34 points and a tie for fifth place with the University of Chicago. This standing ties as one of CMUs best finishes for the womens team and beats last years eighth place showing.Emory University women won five out of six singles positions and every doubles position to seal their fifth consecutive UAA title.
Placing second among the womens teams was Washington University, followed by the University of Rochester, and Brandeis University. After the Tartans in fifth place came New York University and Case Western Reserve University.Emorys mens team also finished first to win its third consecutive UAA title. Washington University finished second, followed by Rochester, Brandeis, NYU, Case Western, Chicago, and CMU with 18 points.This years Carnegie Mellon team was one of the youngest ever to compete at UAAs. The mens team was led by, first- year player, senior Mike Lucas, and returning letterman sophomore Britton Trimmer. Sophomores John Muza and Dan Schmitt and freshmen Bill Mathey and Eric Rying are all first-year players.Leading the womens team this year were senior Silvina Candia and sophomores Sharyn Rotunno and Whitney Weber, all returning lettermen. Kinga and Monika Czerska and Stephanie Kukura are all strong freshmen players. In individual match play, Kukura won a medal, placing third in the fourth singles division. Kukura impressed the crowd with superb play against Chicagos Tina
Radnik,winning 46, 64, 6-3 to secure the tie for fifth in the team standings.Other strong finishes for the women came from Monika Czerska in number five singles, the number one doubles team of Candia and Weber, and the number two doubles team of Kinga and Monika Czerska; they all placed fourth. The number three doubles team of Kukura and Rotunno scored four points for their fifth-place showing.Number one singles player Weber and number six singles player Rotunno finished in sixth place. Candia, playing in the number three singles spot, placed seventh, and second singles player Kinga Czerska placed eighth. The strongest finish for the men came at the number six singles spot, where Rying posted a sixth-place finish. Finishing seventh for the men were number one singles player Trimmer, number two singles player Lucas, number four player Schmitt, number five singles player Mathey and the doubles teams of Mathey and Trimmer, Lucas and Schmitt, and Muza and Rying.The team is optomistic about its future and is looking forward to being strong contenders next year. Although it seems like the teams didnt do that well, we
all gained a lot of valuable experience and well definitely be back and ready to compete for top positions next year, said Monika Czerska.The women closed out their spring season with a defeat by Duquesne University while fielding only four players. The lone victory for the Tartans came at the number two doubles position, where sophomore Cami Van Dyke and freshman Cherrie Lin won in three sets.The men also lost to Duquesne by a score of 4-5. Scoring victories for the men were Mathey, Rying, and senior Steve Mc- Menamin in singles and the number one doubles team of Trimmer and Mathey.The men traveled to Westminster College last Thursday, and came away with a 5-4 victory. Trimmer, Rying and junior Anand Chandani were singles winners. Doubles wins came from Timmer and Mathey and Chandani and freshman Brock Hamlin.The mens team will travel to Erie next weekend to play Penn State Behrend.
Tartan Assistant Business 
Manager Sharyn Rotunno is a 
member of the womens tennis 
team.
And Justice For Who?
Are you tired of corporate injustice and 
environmental destruction? Citizen 
Action is hiring summer/full-time 
campaign staff to achieve social change. 
$300-5400 weekly, benefits, paid travel. 
Must be available 2 pm through 10 pm, 
Monday through Friday. Some college 
preferred, but not necessary - paid 
training. Call 765-2641,10 am through 
5 pm. Offices in Pittsburgh, Bethlehem, 
Harrisburg, and Philadelphia. Really 
do something for Pennsylvania.
Student/FacultyDISCOUNT
AIRFARES
TOEUROPE
via liritish Airways
Forbes Travel 
521-7300
mm
P I Z Z A /W.V.V.V.V.VA
Spectacular pies for onel Each one a singular 
sensation. Pizza Provencal, White, Taco, 
B-B-O Chicken, Grilled Chicken & Pesto, 
Seafood & Blanco.
1922 Mufry Avnu*  Squlrrol Hill 
521-8222 
opn 'III mldnlQht  Fri. 4 Sal. 'HI la.m.
.mona,of colors
Birkensiockl
The Shoe Inn5874 Forbes Ave. Squirrel Hill521-9122
Summers lease hath all too short a date.
William Shakespeare
So you can earn credit in just 2,3,4,6,7, or 8 weeks.
Call 1-800-FINDS Nil for a catalog today. Northwestern University Summer Session 92


---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  13 April 199217
IM Scoreboard
TeamWL TTeamWL TTeamWL TTeamWL TTeamWL TWATER BASKETBALLMAJORSDIVISION GClockwork010The Phantoms0 10GargoyeesI010Bunch o Losers010Hitt & Runn010Sandys Team0 00MAJORSReal Mellon100EPPWho000In the Hole110USS Pirates Navy1 00SAEA7 00TX100INI Blast100SEI Death Stars100Should Be ...3 40USS Vinson Navy010TX011DIVISION EUSS Hawes3 30DIVISION HApathy0 20USS Jesse C. Brown0 60INTERMEDIATEPsynners000INTERMEDIATEBeta Xtra Base1 00
DIVISION ASoccer Gods100DIVISION AFringe0 00MINORSDU100ZOO A010Brutal100KAP SIG B.O.B II2 00Beta Beached Whales5 00GSIA Red010DU010Superstars C0 10FRINGE3 30Phi Kap010DIVISION IGfy110
Phi Kap5 10Roughnecks200CIA000SAEA010DIVISION FSAE Smokers2 30PiLam010Superstars A100Design Guys0 10
DIVISION BMSE Madmen100TX100Mathletes1 00VOLLEYBALLDTD A100Rocldes010INI Slammers0 20GSIA Blue010DIVISION JPiKA Putzers0 00Gourds13 20KSA010Big Money100DIVISION BUSS Red Sox Navy2 00Rude Dogs10 50PiKAA100Tud or Blast000ATO Slackers010
Dig This10 50SAEA000Ship of Fools010Beta Sluggers200DIVISION GNetworkers6 90Biology000Phi Kap0 10The dPHIant Ones13 20MINORSDIVISION KGSIA Stars010PiLam0 00
DIVISION AGalestro100PiKAA100Primal Screamers0 10ECE Spikes3 90Phi Kap B010SAE C000Unemployables010SAE B2 00MechE A3 12 0SAE B200Thai010ZOO A000Tud or Burst0 20Sudsuckers8 40TX Unicorns010Ouais!7 40WOMENSMINORSDIVISION H
SET!9 60DIVISION BPhi Kap Women100DIVISION AHelpers Last Stand1 00AWA100Theta World Cup010Ballistics100Lady Tartans0 20
Hedgehog7 50SAE Smokers100CIA010Over the Gang1 00
Camubushmadelade8 70Phi Kap C for Coed*020PINOCHLEDream Team100Kap Sig B.O.B. I1 00
Just Serve8 70KDR-B020Sudsuckers0 20
Robotic Manipulators5 70DIVISION CDIVISION ANuke em high100
Dinglehoppers4 70GNC Supplements100Red Skrod100DIVISION I
Phi Kap Gremany001Sig Tau010DIVISION BBeta Bashers2 00
INI Bumbers9 30TX Red Cards010Without a Clue000Cricket Anyone010The Camel Hard Pack0 00
Real Men4 80ZOO-A000Fat Italians100DTD1 00
Matheletes10 50DIVISION DGNC Supplements0007 to Go0 10
Determinators3 90Gargoyles II000DIVISION BIndians100TX0 20
MechE B3 90TX Unity010Draw Partner000Random Walkers010X-Actos1 10
Kappa Sig Boys of B ..100Jynan Tonnix000
Thats Mr. To You7 50Phi Kap000DIVISION CCO-REC SOFTBALL
Viking Death Rats7 50DIVISION ETX Knuckleheads000ASA100
Treehuggers8 70Beta Shooters000Black Sox010SAE0 00
The Savage Spikers6 60DTD B010SAE Smokers100Shear Force0 00
T. P. L. H.5 70Phi Kap Cameroon100SOFTBALLShelas Team01O'USS Batfist Navy1 00Superstars B000
The Sharpei411 0DIVISION FMAJORS''Disqualified
Unobservables210 0Dangerous Dynamos100ATO Beach Bums200DIVISION DPioneers010ATO Trojans001EPP000Compiled byINDOOR SOCCERUSS Mellon Navy000Beta All-Stars010KDR A000ROBBY FINDLER
THE
TARTAN
Come 
work 
for The 
Tartan. 
x2111.
THE 
TARTAN
ANNOUNCING A NEW COURSE AT CMU...
1P1FI11QIMIL UFO 
]yiLTOi]i()Q roti
FROM THE DEPARTMENT OF PHILOSOPHY AND THE CENTER FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF APPLIED ETHICS
9 units
80-241 or 80-741
No prerequisites 
Fall 1992
"Ethical Issues in Professional Life is designed to provide both graduate and undergraduate students with an understanding of and a framework for analyzing the many complex ethical issues,problems and dilemmas facing contemporary professionals inbusiness and accounting, engineering, science, journalism and media, public administration, medicine, law and social work.The course uses an integrated set of 14-one-half hour videos, 
an accompanying workbook and audio tapes. One video segment per 
week will be viewed in Instructional Technology. On a course
specific bulletin board, students will discuss the weekly issues raised 
in that video and in the corresponding workbook chapter and audio 
tapes. There will be three plenary class sessions: an orientation, 
mid-term and final session. As so designed, the course allows for 
ample flexibility in a student's schedule.
The workbook serves as a course text with self-paced study
questions and assignments to be submitted to the instructor via 
campus mail. Edited andcondensed transcripts of the videos are also 
included in the workbook as well as suggestions for additional 
readings. The instructor, Peter Madsen, executive director of the
Center for the Advancement of Applied Ethics, will meet with 
students by appointment for individual tutorials as necessary.
The course showcases nationally known professionals and
ethicists including: Hon. Lawton Chiles, Governor of Florida; Roger
Boisjoly, Shuttle Challenger whistleblower; Talbot D'Alemberte, 
President, American Bar Association; Lisa Newton, Director, Program 
in Applied Ethics, Fairfield University and project consultant for the
PBS series "Ethics in America" and Manuel Velasquez, Director, Center
for Applied Ethics, Santa Clara University and author of Business 
Ethics: Concepts and Cases.
SUMEUMRBAKMU BI CSUBO NGU !SUGNMAABGICO MKFBiA! 
GUBMIKCKBGI AMAABGI GI CrRrAK st- meny- UGGf Cmoi- SGUKMU FCOO
ASIAN
PERSPECTIVE
Be the one to tell. 
Become a counselor for the 
Freshman Orientation from the 
Asian Perspective.
Asian Perspective is a supplementary 
component in the overall Freshman 
Orientation. It is not a rush event for all 
Asian organizations, nor is it an Asian 
socializing party. It IS a series of programs 
designed by student counselors to help 
Freshmen who have a background with 
Asian families or communities. It is NOT 
about telling Freshmen how to act or what to 
do as an Asian. It IS a forum for them to 
familiarize them with the diversity of Asian 
students on campus and the issues they will 
face. Issues can range anywhere from racial 
discrimination to the dating scene on 
campus.
For anyone interested in Asian Perspective, 
more information and applications to become 
counselors are available at the Skibo Info 
Desk. Deadline for entry of applications is 
April 17,1992. Get your application now!
Funded by your Student Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

18The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  13 April 1992
SPORTS IN SEASON
FLOOR HOCKEYt Playoffs will be held tonight at " 5:30. Vying for the minors title are Phi Kap and DTD A, for the majors title are Beta and Puckoff. 
noBRIDGE
'"Commissioner Buddy Feitt, x5371 Please turn in scores to Feitt and complete finals.
FACULTY/GRAD VOLLEYBALL
Commissioner Greg Silvus, x3271- fJM Supervisor. Maureen Shea, 683-3050
PINOCHLE
Commissioner ,Pat Brame, x5326 vL-i  Please play all games as scheduled. Report scores to Brame.
WATER BASKETBALL'; CommissionerMike Kappus, x5302 
Certified Lifeguard -^Bridget Eperthener, 683-2658 , ; Playoffs are this week, cCO-REC & TEAM BADMINTON- - Commissioner' Jon Wei, 683-5716 ., Schedules are out; pick them up in IM Office. Play all matches as scheduled and report the o, scores to Wei.
POOL> * Commissioner Steve Kolecki, x4848 Team pool will be straight pool 150 balls for majors and 100 for minors. Individual Call Pool will be straight pool, 8-ball and .. 9-ball. Play all games as scheduled and report your scores to Kolecki.
c., ,WEIGHTLIFTING
 Commissioner
IM News
Keith Gorse, x2222 Call Gorse to arrange lifting times. It is not too late to sign up for weightlifting.
SOFTBALL
CommissionersMajors  Buddy Feitt, x5371Intermediate  Dave Ekem,x4676Minors  Mike G., 321-6613 Women Only & Co-Rec  Molly McDermott, 682-3529 Play all games as scheduled; there will be no postponements. Phi Kap C for co-ed will replace Pioneers and play the remaining Pioneers schedule, and Phi Kap B will replace WRCT and will play the remaining WRCT schedule.
INDOOR SOCCER
CommissionersMajors  Mike G., 321-6613Intermediate  Dave Ekern,x4676MinorMolly McDermott, 682- 3529Women Only  Anh Nguyen, 681-1914 Play games as scheduled.
SPORTS COMING UP
IM SWIM MEET
Commissioner Mike Kappus, x5032 Please post your entries. You may swim as an individual or as a team. There will be women- only heats in all events. The meet will be April 23, at 4:30 pm.
FENCING
No Commissioner Assigned
FRISBEE GOLF
Commissioner JeffHrkach, unlisted
ULTIMATE FRISBEE
Commissioner Jeff Hrkach, unlisted
IM TRACK MEET
Commissioners Mike G. 321-6613,John Supp, x6023 The meet will be held/ at 6:30 pm in Gesling Stadium.
TRIATHLONThe 1992 Triathlon will be held Saturday, May 2. You may participate as a team or as an individual. We need volunteers to help the day of the meet.
OTHER BUSINESS
IM WRESTLINGThe Real Man tournament was held April 4. The team champion was Pioneers, with Bill Cheeseman as the Most Valuable Player.140 lb. champ: Chuck Kuba 150 lb. champ: Bill Cheeseman 160 lb. champ: Chris Ferrence 170 lb. champ: Mike Negler 180 lb. champ: Kurt Schirra Heavyweight Champ: Mike Bogash, by forfeit.
IM BANQUETThe 1992 Intramural Banquet will be held April 29 at 5:30 pm in the Faculty Dining Room. Sign up in the IM Office.
IM SERVICE AWARDBruce Gerson was the winner of the 1992 Service Award.
IM TOTAL POINTSThe 1991-92 total team point list is posted in the IM Office. The leaders are: SAE (2152.6), Navy (1678.5), Beta (1384.9).
Compiled By TRACY HAYES
THE PITTSBURGH SYMPHONY
gumnaP2l eo2 .8,un aC 
iuP2 bymun8i eo28e2lh 
CLO Student Coupons 
6 Tickets. $24.00!
Brigadoon (June 9-21) 
Me and My Girl (june 23-28) 
Jesus Christ Superstar (June 30-July 12)
Carousel (July 14-19) 
Oliver! (July 21-26) 
Show Boat (July 28-Aug. 9)
STUDENT COUPON ORDER FORM  MAIL ORDER ONLY!
Address
CityZip
Phone No.School
* Enclose a copy of your student ID or your last report card & ID and a $24.00 check 
or money order made.payable to the Civic Light Opera. Mail to: CLO-Student 
Coupon Program, Benedum Center, 719 Liberty Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA 15222- 
3504. For additional information call, (412) 281-3973. Mail order only, no walk-ins 
please.
IGKMe
When you receive your 6 vouchers, ihey may be redeemed individually or in any 
combination for individual tickets at the Benedum Center Box Office beginning April 
27th. Just present your voucher and ID at the Box Office for the best seats available in 
the second tier. Applicable for all performances, this represents a savingsof up to $78.00 
Limit One Set of Vouchers Per Student  Deadline to Purchase Vourhers  June 9
It cant do laundry or find you a date, but it can help you find more time for bofo.
The new Apple* Macintosh' Classic' II 
computer makes it easier for you to juggle 
classes, activities, projects, and term papers 
and still find time for what makes college 
Jife real life.
Its a complete and affordable Macintosh 
Classic system thats ready to help you get 
your work finished fast. Its a snap to set up 
and use. It has a powerful 68030 micro
processor, which means you can run even 
the most sophisticated applications with ease. 
And its internal Apple SuperDrive disk 
drive reads from and writes to Macintosh and 
MS-DOS formatted disksallowing you to 
exchange information easily with , 11 
almost any other kind of computer. ]
- _ - 4 V V V W W i 4tmnmtti'. 4 4 4 4 4 4 V V \t 4 4LJ i JLJLJtJLi
In addition to its built-in capabilities, the 
Macintosh Classic II can be equipped with up 
to 10 megabytes of RAM, so youll be able to 
run several applications at once and work 
with large amounts of data.
If you already own a Macintosh Classic, 
and want the speed and flexibility of a 
Macintosh Classic II, ask us about an 
upgradeit can be installed in just minutes 
and its affordable.
To put more time on your side, consider 
putting a Macintosh Classic II on your desk. 
See us for a demonstration today, and while 
youre in, be sure to ask us for details 
about the Apple Computer Loan. 
Itll be time well spent.
Introducing the Macintosh Classic II
For more information visit the 
Carnegie Mellon Computer Store 
or call 268-2636
 1991 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple, the Apple logo, and Macintosh are registered trademarks and SuperDrive is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. MS-DOS is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation. Classic is a registered trademark used under license by Apple Computer. Inc. This ad was created using Macintosh computers.

---------------------------------------------------

VolV
zMFhh4 IM4ifa Fi 
0Fh4a /oj4i fo 
fFA4 wl4c 8LcFj 
)FhhDmRlcJa Fh 
4/4SfMohFyyR 
Mhf4yyMu4hf yMffy4 
^oRa oh F fopla 
UnMy4 nMi FN4lFu4 
jofn4la z4c4 
80ocM4 woif4lJ 
yooAi ohC Little 
Man Tate Mi 
woif4lbi cMl4/f
olMFy c4^pfC zoh2f 
jMii Little Man 
Tate Un4h Mf SM FRi 
Mh z) k5 oh 
wlMcFR Ff GaZak5a 
Fhc jMchMunfC
1991 Orion Pictures
Admission to all DH2210 films is$l for 
students with ID; $2 otherwise. Admis
sion to all Pittsburgh Playhouse films, 
located at 222 Craft Avenue, is $4.
Overseas will play each night through Thursday, April 23, at the Pittsburgh Playhouse. It is shown at 7 pm only.
Emergency and the slide show 
Breaking Through Enemy Lines: Im
ages of Violence Against Women in 
Popular Culture, will be presented on Thursday at 7:30 pm at Pitts Graduate School of Public Health Auditorium (Fifth Avenue and Bouquet Street). Admission is free, and American Sign Language interpretation will be provided.
Europa, Europa will play nightly through Thursday, April 23, at the Pittsburgh Playhouse. Its shown at 9 pm only.
Slacker will play at DH 2210 on Thursday. Shows are at 6, 8, and 10 pm.
Little Man Tate will play at DH 2210 on Friday. Shows are at 6, 8, 10, and midnight.
The Father of the Bride will play at DH 2210 on Saturday. Shows are at 6, 8,10, and midnight.
Beverly Hills Cop will play at DH 2210 on Sunday. Shows are at 6, 8,10, and midnight.
Foreign Language Tables, in conjunction with the Modern Languages Department, are held each week in the Morewood Gardens Cafeteria, except where noted. Mondays: La Table 
Franaise (French) from 12:30 to 1:30 pm. Tuesdays: Russkii Chas (Russian) from noon to 1:30 pm. Wednesdays: La 
Mesa Espaola (Spanish) from 11:30 to 1 pm. BentooLunch o nihongo de (Japanese) at noon in BH 160. Please order for the Japanese table Tuesdays in BH 160. Cost is $3. Thursdays: Deutscher 
Stammtisch (German) from 11:30 am to 1 pm.
The Legal Affairs Department, HBH157, has open office hours for students from 2-3 pm each Monday, Wednesday, and Friday from April 6 to May 8. During these times, a staff member is available to discuss legal problems, such as security deposits and leases, that are related to University life. They will not provide legal assistance for personal legal matters but can make referrals to attorneys in private practice.
CMU Vegetarians, a group promoting vegetarian awareness and understanding on campus, meets every Monday at 5 pm in Skibo 45. For more information, email dm3o or ap33.
CMU Fencing invites you to j oin them, even if youve never picked up a sword before. Equipment and instruction pro
vided for beginners. Stop by the Fencing Room in the Gym on Monday (5:30 pm) or Wednesday (6:30 pm) nights.
The Chess Club meets every Monday and Thursday in Skibo 201 (or ask at the Information Desk) from 710 pm. Learn to play or practice your skills with informal games.
cmuOUT will hold its weekly business meeting tonight at 7 pm in BH 254C.
The Pittsburgh Hypnosis Research Group holds workshop meetings every Monday at the Friends Meeting House, and the cost is $3. For more information, call 276-1768 in the evenings. <
The Filmmaking Club holds weekly meetings every Tuesday evening at 8 pm in PH A18B. All are welcome.
CMU Shrin-Ryu Karate Club meets Tuesdays at 8:30 pm and Sundays at 4 pm in Activity Room B of the CMU Gymnasium. Learn traditional Okinawan Karate. Beginners are welcome.
The Juggling Club meets every Wednesday and Saturday in Grey Matter from 4:30-10 pm. Learn to juggle or try new stuff. Unicycling, diablo, and devil sticks are also available.
Hillel is having a barbecue on Wednesday at 4:30 pm at the Jewish Student Association Special Interest House (MM 131). The entire campus community is welcome, and admission is $1.
The Poetry and Fiction Workshop,sponsored by the University of Pittsburgh, meets every Wednesday at 7 pm in the first floor conference room of the Oakland Carnegie Library. The group is an open forum for-writers, writers-to- be, Pitt and CMU students and alumni. For more information, call 421-8140.
Student Dormitory Council (SDC)holds meetings every Wednesday at 7 pm in the Wherrett Room. For more information, call x2114.
AIMEs general meetings will be held every Thursday at 4:30 pm in Skibo 13. All majors are welcome. Contact Aurora at x4939 or through email ac3e, if you have questions.
Voices United Gospel Choir holds rehearsals every Friday from 57 pm in MM 210. All are welcome to attend. For more information, call Tara Haughton at x4580.
Questioning? Positively sure? Come to the CMU Lesbian/Bisexual Womens Discussion Group for friendly talk and fun. Meetings will now be held on Saturdays at 7 pm in the CMU Womens Center.
The Cycling Club meets every Sunday at 8 pm in PH 225C. All are welcome.
Alpha Phi Omega (A Phi O), the coed service fraternity, holds meetings every Sunday at 7:30 pm in Breed Hall (MM 103). All members of the campus community are invited to attend.
Tech House, a co-ed Roman Catholic special interest house, has space for next year. If you are interested, call x4391 or stop by at 15 RoselawnTerrace.
Kollar, Anna Loney, and Rachel Popowcer.
Censorship: A Continuing Threat,an exhibit of examples of censorship and book banning throughout the past 150 years, is on display at Engineering and Science and Mellon Institute Libraries through spring semester.
Books of the Niches exhibit, an exhibit of the architectural books that are serving as sources for the carving of the niches of the College of Fine Arts Building, will be on display on the 4th floor of Hunt Library through Friday, May 22. For more information, call x2451.
Preserving the Family: Physically, Emotionally, and Spiritually, aCatholic/Jewish dialogue, will be presented on Tuesday at 7:30 pm at Rodef Shalom (4905 Fifth Avenue). Admission is $5.
Chabad House (5546 Forbes Avenue) invites you to join them for Passover Seders and all holiday meals. For more information, call 521-0070 .
Shabbat Shalom! For your Shabbat plans, call Chabad House at 683-7770.
Shabbat at Hillel is held every Friday with a happy half hour (hors doeuvres) at 6 pm, services at 6:30 pm, and dinner following. RSVP by calling 621-8875.
Hillel provides Seders, daily meals, and Seder kits for Passover (April 17- 25). Home Hospitality can also be arranged. Pick up forms at the Skibo Information Desk. Call 621-8875 for more information.
The Roman Catholic Chaplaincycelebrates mass daily on campus at 12:30 pm in Skibo 39 Monday through Friday. Weekend masses are celebrated at 7 pm Saturday and 10:30 am Sunday in the GSIA main auditorium. Stations of the Cross will be prayed on Fridays of Lent at 12 pm in Skibo 39. Chism mass on Holy Thursday will be celebrated at10 am at St. Pauls Cathedral, and Mass of the Lords Supper and The Mandatum and Procession of the Blessed Sacrament will begin at 7 pm at Heinz Chapel. On Good Friday, the Stations of the Cross will begin at noon, followed by The Reading of the Passion, Veneration of the Cross, and Holy Communion at 12:30 pm in the Wherrett Room. Easter Vigil Mass will be held at 9 pm on Holy Saturday in Heinz Chapel. On Easter Sunday, the 10:30 am mass will be in the GSIA main auditorium and the noon mass will be held at Heinz Chapel. For more information, call The Oratory at 681-3181.
New Hope Christian Community Church invites all students to join other young adults in contemporary, casual, and uplifting services on Sundays at 11 am in the Central Christian Church located at the comer of Fifth and Dithridge (134 N. Dithridge). For more information, call 621-6760.
The Church of the Ascension (Episcopal) welcomes all students to join those who worship, serve, and fellowship there. Services are held on Sundays with a Eucharist at 8:30 am, a college class at 9:30 am, and morning worship at 11:30 am in their chapel located on the corner of Ellsworth and Neville in Oakland. A Eucharist is also held on Wednesdays at 7 am.Call minister Hank Suhr at 621-4361.
John Absalom and Margaret Kusakwill perform on Friday at the Mellon Institute Auditorium at 8 pm as part of the Distinguished Alumni Concert Series. Admission is $10 for the general public and $5 with a CMU ID.
The Pittsburgh Oratorio Societywill present Handels Messiah on Friday at 8 pm at Calvery Episcopal Church (315 Shady Avenue at Walnut Street). Tickets are $10; $7 for students. Doors open at 7:15 pm. Call 661-7023 for more information.
LA
and Lois Wyse on Tuesday at 8 pm in Campbell Memorial Chapel on the Chatham College campus.
Thylias Moss, author of Pyramid of 
Bone, will read from her works on Wednesday at 8 pm in the Adamson Wing. Admission is free, and a reception follows the reading.
World Premiere, by Lisa De Ribere, will be presented on Thursday at 11:30 am at the Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre Studios in the Strip District as one of the PBT Casual Classics Lecture Luncheons. Call 281-0360 for information.
On Step, Off Step, In Step, a collection of jazz, ballet, modem, and freestyle pieces, will be performed by the Dancers Symposium on Thursday from 8-10 pm at Metropol. Admission is $3 with any student ID or $4 general admission. Proceeds will benefit the AIDS Taskforce of Pittsburgh.
Reality Optional, the Flying Pig Theatres improvisational group, will perform on Saturday at 8 pm at the Artery (5847 Ellsworth Avenue).
Support CMU sports by attending 'the 
home games! For more information on 
all sports events, call the Sports Infor
mation Director at x3087.
The mens tennis team competes at Fairmont State College on Tuesday at3 pm.
The golf team competes at Washington and Jefferson College Invitational on Monday. Call x3087 for the time.
The mens outdoor track team competes in the West Virginia University Invitational on Saturday. Call x3087 for the time.
The womens outdoor track teamcompetes in the West Virginia University Invitational on Saturday at 10 am.
PIRATES SPECIAL EVENTS Glove Day  Saturday, April 18"; at 1:35 pm against Philadelphia.
0 Poster Day  Sunday, April 19,' at 1:35 pm against Philadelphia.
0 Pin Night  Friday, May 8, at 7:35 pm against Houston.
 Fireworks Night  Saturday, May 9, at 7:05 pm against Montreal. J
Visor Day Sunday, May 10, at 1:35 pm against Houston.
' 1
Elizabeth Plater-Zyberk will speak at the Hornbostel lecture and dinner on Tuesday at 7:30 pm in DH 2210, part of the Department of Architecture lecture series. Also sponsored by the Pittsburgh Chapter of the AIA.
Twenty Questions a Mother Always Wanted to Ask Her Daughter& Twenty Questions a Daughter AIways Wanted to Ask Her Mother will be presented by Katherine Goldman
Send Calendar or Vox Populi sub
missions to: The Tartan, Attni 
Calendar, Box 17, Carnegie Mellon 
U., Pittsburgh, PA 15213. Or send 
campus mail to Calendar Editor, 
The Tartan, Skibo Info Desk. Yoi) 
can also drop submissions vi^ 
AppleShare in the drop folders ii^ 
the Tartans server, Skibo zone1. 
Please limit submissions to fiftjjwords or less. Deadline is 5 pm th$ 
Thursday before the next issue1. 
Placement is not guaranteed. Origi
nal Vox Populi and Calendar entries 
cannot be returned.
The Forbes Gallery Exhibition schedule for Tuesday through Sunday includes work done by students Bob
Rich,Youre such a Guppy From Tracee
Congratulations to SDC for a great season of buggy. Our expectations were high. Our luck was low. Weve had fun and made many new friends. Now the buggy community knows that we are going to be a contender for years to come. Thank you.
Every time I see you falling I get down on my knees and pray Im waiting for the final moment Youll say the words that I can say Bernard Sumner (P)
Hi Tracee,From Mom, Dad, and Kevin 
Happy! Happy! Joy! Joy!
Joe BaileyThanks for a great year of buggy! | Youre a great leader and great friend!Good luck in all the future holds! \ Love SDC buggy 1992
When I learn how, Ill play th$ Beatles for you on my guitar' Grandma can take out her harf monica, and well perform.
Remember he who finishes last is not a loser, but he who did not enter the race! Great season SDC!!!
Ah ... to be young, foolish, and at Carnival.

---------------------------------------------------

SINGER/SONGWRITER
TOM ACOUSTI
IS BACK!
BE PART OF HIS LIVE
CONCERT-VIDEO RECORDING!
APRIL 19 - EASTER SUNDAY
MELLOW INSTITUTE AUDITORIUM
(8 MINUTE WALK OR CMU SHUTTLE LEAVES 7 pm and 7:30 pm)
4400 FIFTH AVENUE 
*OPENING ACT: MIKE MESSER
8 pm
-h-neg^-nelIon
FREE!
FUNDED BY YOUR ACTIVITIES FEE.

---------------------------------------------------

SPRING CARNIVAL 92:
The legends that will live on ...
dnFc zFl^R Spin4i Tol F eSMlMf NM/folR Mh eU44SifFA4i 29C
OofnMhu /opyc c4ifloR BnM (FSSF tn4fFbi TMlif SyF/4 ^oofna Ptn4 toU4l oT mF^4yC
Thomas Nichols/ Tartan Contributing Editor
Spirit sizzles
lgllUklU0 WWHIIW/ IUIUIII WVMUIUUUIIg
e4hMol j4/nFhM/Fy 4huMh44lMhu jF"ol rF"My (FSool nFi F ^yFif Ff 1Fj^cF eMujF2i wophfFMh oT qopfnC
captain Chris Cyrus. Darby commented on the fact that both Spirits B and D teams were disqualified, Im sorry that the teams didnt compete. Both teams gave Spirit a lot of time and dedication.PiKAs mens A and B teams took second and fourth place with times of2:09.37 and2:14.18, respectively. Although nei- therCycZo/ie nor Desperado bumped, and both teams beat their 1991 times, PiKA buggy chair Tom Ambrose says, I thought we would do better.SAEs mens A team, under the auspices of SAE buggy chair Doug Scott, achieved an impressive third place in the mens Finals. Maddy Gerstein drove the 1990-built Takoochie to a time of 2:12.53. Says Scott of the race, We thought wed place, but we didnt expect to do this well.An enthusiastic Phi Kap mens A team placed a surprising fifth place with Secretariat, which spun during Phi Kaps mens A team race last year. PhiKap Buggy Chair Cyril ONeil says, One of the things thats most important is that this was a house effort. I didnt make it happen. Everyone made it happen. Without the meatheads we wouldnt have won anything. 1992 is the first time in 16 years that Phi Kap has made the top ten.
By Laura Palanker
Tartan Asst. Features Editor
Spirits mens A team maintained its reign at the top of the list of winners this weekend, making it two years in a row that Spirit has held the throne  and five out of the last six years. Phi Kaps mens A team placed an impressive fifth, and the absence of Beta in the competition left room for PiKA teams in fourth and second places, SAEs A team in third, and Sigma Nus A team in a lucky sixth.Spirits mens A team rolled a new buggy Shaka Zulu,to a 2:07.39 in the finalsover three seconds less than the 1991 time of 2:10.63, which also won first place. Tension struck in the sixth heat of mens finals when the Spirit buggy bumped with Sigma Nus mens A team buggy 
KO$D419 during the freeroll. Sigma Nu buggy co-chair Jim Wiley says, We have the best drivers on campus. [Spirit] fouled us. They should not have gotten a reroll.KO$D419 ended in sixth place. Spirit buggy cochair Chad Darby responded, We deserved a reroll.There was a problem at the top with the drivers taking their respective lines. The reroll resulted in the winning time of 2:07.39 for Spirit and the King of the Hill title for Spirit mens A team Hill 1 pusher and team

---------------------------------------------------

MLMUw KrMAhCwALL CAN-EATSPAGHETTIwith garlic toast
Buggy Rolls Buggy Rolls Buggy Rolls Buggy Rolls
Counseling & Student Development Center
Morewood Gardens-E Tower 
268-2922
Crisis Intervention ConsultationIndividual Psychotherapy ACOA CounselingSexual Orientation Counseling Assessment & ReferralReferrals from Health Services Sexual Assault Counseling
Groups: Therapy Groups for Relationships, Date Rape/Violence, Graduate Students; Support Groups for Stress, Making Friends, and also Gay and Lesbian Students
Hours by Appointment 
Weekday Walk-in Crisis Hours 
After-hours Emergency Services
Division of Student Affairs
L2 The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  13 April 1992
Tom Nichols/Tartan Contributing Editor
eSMlMf /4y4^lFf4i Mh Tlojf oT :FluFl4f :ollMioh dFlh4uM4 )Fyy FTf4l Mfi 5WCH j4hbi ^puuR NM/folR eFfplcFRC
Now youre seeing things from her 
point of view.
Almost everybody has to file taxes, but not 
everyone can do it on their own. Volunteer and 
help make someones taxes less taxing. Call 
1 800 829-1040. It ,A Pubic Service ol InternalT'"SPu"SgSj:S
L Spin4l Tloj eSMlMf2i L f4Fj SoU4li pS )Myy 1 ,h fn4 Sl4yMjMhFlR lF/4i wlMcFRC
Hold a piece of tape up to your eyes, 
dim the lights and try to fill out your 
taxes.
ning we were expecting to be in the top three but not beat PiKA After Fridays race results, though, we werent surprised to beat them.PiKAs womens A team, disappointed with a 2:44.74 time behind Theta Xi A and Spirit A, came in a close third in the womens competition in Ren
egade, driven by Rachel Bourn. The teams time was almost 9 seconds longer than their 1991 first place timeof2:35.88. PiKAs B team was not allowed a reroll after Sweepstakes officials ruled that driver Kristin Miljus intentionally bumped the PiKA buggy 
Predator into the Pioneers and DU buggies; PiKAs 3:05.9 was disqualified as a result.PioneersWomensB and DUs Womens A teams ended up rerolling again  the second time after Pioneers and DU bumped during the first reroll. Pioneers buggy chair Pete Harllee says, [the bump] really wasnt anyones fault  they bumped in the chute side-by- side. The Pioneers and DU teams ended with times of 3:06.34 and 3:07.28, respectively.
By LAURA PALANKER
Tartan Asst. Features Editor
Womens Sweepstakes this ! year was full of surprises, from Spirits setting a new womens record to Theta Xis unexpected ! second place over PiKA.Spirits womens A team, which came in third place last year behind Theta Xi A in second and PiKA A in first, came back this year to take the womens title from PiKA. In addition, Spirits Grace Noh drove 
Vicious Flow to a record-setting time of 2:33.52, beating PiKAs 1990 record of2:35.66. The run also resulted in the Queen of the Hill title for Spirit Hill 1 pusher Jennetta Wilcox. Spirits womens push team captain Vesta Hodges said, We just came together as a team and put our hearts into it. We wanted the record and we got it.Theta Xis womens A team ended with a time of 2:43.29  a little over a second less than competitor PiKA. Veteran driver Dolly Shen drove Theta Xis 
Valkure to maintain the teams spot in second place in the Womens Competition. ThetaXi buggy co-chair Arjun Khare said of the race, I think in the beginAPARTMENTS AVAILABLE IN NORTH & SOUTH OAKLAND
1, 2 & 3 Bedroom Apartments Furnished Laundry Facilities WAV Carpeting Security BuildingH&P Real Estate 682-1519
7 am-5 pm, Monday thru Saturday

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  13 April 1992L3
wMhMinMhu fop/n4i oh wr,Og-2e PLyFcc4h ^oofn jMunf nFN4 ^44h fn4 c4/McMhu TF/fol Mh wr,Og-be ip//4ii in fn4 moofn /ojS4fMfMohC wr,Og- Uoh TMlif SyF/4C
"A Tribute to Women 
Choreographers"
Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre
Vntricin Wilcle, Artistic Director
Three ballets will be performed:
Fall River Legend 
Great Galloping Gottschalk 
World Premiere Ballet choreographed
by Lisa de Ribere
Sororities show their booths
By JENNIFER FORBES
Tartan Copy Manager
i KappaKappa GammaHa-' des* Booth: At this earth-encrusted ; booth, guests were greeted by a , guide to Hades who carried reg- ; istration booklets for CMU. The ; inside walls of the booth weredecorated with pictures of people ! suffering for their sins.Game: In this game, keys were fished out of a small pond with ; a magnet. The key was the key ; to your destiny and determined ; the prize.
' Kappa Alpha ThetaRobin ! HoodBooth: Theta recreated a vine- - covered English cottage. Inside, drawings of the characters from
the Disney film version of Robin 
Hood were hung on the walls. The Theta sisters, wearing 
Robin Hood hats, explained the game.Game: In this game, arrows were shot at a target that was stationed across the booth.
Chi Omega  Joan of Arc Booth: Chi Omega constructed a cathedral with beautiful stained-glass windows. The walls were adorned with images of Joan of Arc and her story.Game: The game consisted of throwing frisbees onto a rotating wheel at the opposite end of the booth.
Delta Delta Delta  Arian and the DolphinsBooth: The Tri Delts modeled
their booth after a Greek temple includes a sand floor, pillars, and the legend of Arian on the wall. A trio of dolphins and a Tri Delt sister in ancient Greek dress greeted guests as they step up to the booth.Game: In this game, quarters were tossed onto plates on the far side of the booth to win a prize.
Delta Gamma  Pandoras BoxBooth: DGs booth was painted black and was decorated with monsters that symbolize the evils of the world, including death, lunacy, and famine. The legend of Pandora was posted outside the booth.Game: An array of cups in the booth were the target of ping pong balls.
h8elsl8el86 r2263u v.mo ylII
tnplicFRa LSlMy
reception - 6:15 p.m. 
Faculty Dining Room 
Performance - 8 p.m. 
Benedum Center
Transportation is provided,
 k*ifpc4hfi 
 kE*TF/pyfR Fhc ifFTT 
Tickets may be purchased at the 
Skibo Information Desk.
Sponsored by Student Affairs
; By JENNIFER FORBES
Tartan Copy Manager
FRINGE  AladdinBooth: FRINGE used Arabesque arches, mosaic tiles, and 
\ a fountain full of fish to create 1 the atmosphere of the Middle East. Inside, you could gaze up at the domed ceiling or catch a glimpse of the genie hiding behind a screen.Game: Toss coins into a vari- ; ety of lamps and bowls to win ! candy prizes.
ASA  Legend of Buddha Booth: The ASA booth was fashioned after a temple. It had ; a gate entrance and a minia- ; ture garden with real, brightly colored flowers. Inside were the scent of incense and the sight of Buddhas adorning the walls. Game: The game at this booth involved trying to steer a ball down a curved ramp and get
the ball through a hole at the end of the ramp.
Pioneers  Legend of Old St. NickBooth: This booth was a white house at the North Pole. The inside included a fireplace, workbench, and tools.Game: Players rebuilt four toys in a certain amount of time.
CIA  King ArthurBooth: An impressive stone castle was the faade of the CIA booth. Carnival guests stepped onto the drawbridge and entered the darkened castle.Game: Players steered a motorized knight on a horse that resembled a remote control car. The knight holds a lance and players tried to get the lance through one of the rings that were mounted at the ends of the game board.
Computer Club  Legend of Chicago GangstersBooth: The Computer Clubs booth resembled a condemned house, complete with boarded- up windows. Once in the house, guests could order a shot of whiskey at the bar.Game: Standing at the bar, players tried to knock over bottles with beanbags.
Hockey Club  Legend of Bobby OrrBooth: The Hockey Club presented an open-air booth that contained a goal cage at the back of booth.Game: Shoot puck at a goal.
Swim Team  Atlantis Booth: The swim team presented its dunking booth.Game: Players tried to dunk a member of the swim team into the water by hitting a target with a ball.
MBgusime tvui/ larcan pnoiograpner .Kappa (FSSF gFjjF SyF/4c TMlif Mh fn4 iololMfR cMNMiMoh oT fn4 ^oofn /ojS4fMfMoh UMfn fn4Ml ^oofn P)Fc4iC2#

---------------------------------------------------

WHITE PIZZA
The great white pizza. Created from 
outrageous quantities of ricotta, mozzarella, 
provolone and parmesan cheeses, plus garlic 
and spice, topped with fresh tomato slices.
L4 The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon 0 13 April 1992
Phi Kappa Theta sweeps 
design competition
By BOB DIXONTartan Staffwriter
At 10:30 pm Saturday, April11, the Spring Carnival Sweepstakes Committee announced Phi Kappa Theta as the winner ofthe buggy design competition, receiving more than fifty percent of votes cast. Placing second and third behind Phi Kaps Secretariate were Pioneers Tsunami and CIAs Conquest respectively. Phi Kappa Theta was also awarded the Peoples Choice Award.Upon acceptingthe trophy, Phi Kap Buggy chair Cyril ONeil
addressed the audience: This just goes to show that you have no idea of what were capable of. In a later interview, chair ONeil credited Secretariates win to having one of the best built shells on the course. The shell, he said, was one of the strongest and safest on the course.ONeil also said that in recent years Phi Kap has not finished the race, and completing the race this year allowed Secretariate to compete in the design competition. He said that time disqualifications narrowed the field of competitors,
and that competition was vigorous as in past years. He did note, however, that there was a lot of new technology on the course this year.
Secretariate was built three years ago and since completion Phi Kappa Theta has been working constantly to improve the buggy. ONeil said that his fraternity has no plans to build a new buggy in the immediate future. In summary, Chairman ONeil credited his fraternitys success to teamwork: [It was] whole house effort... the entire house made this Carnival so successful.
Fraternities strut their stuff
Josh Freeman/Tartan Photo Editor 
BnM(FSbi nFlc UolA SFMc oTTC tn4Ml ^oofn Ptn4 toU4l oT mF^4y UFi FUFlc4c TMlif SyF/4 Mh fn4 TlFf4lhMfR 
cMNMiMoh oT fn4 ^oofn /ojS4fMfMohC
By TRUPTI PATEL
Tartan Staffwriter
Phi Kappa Theta The Tower of Babel.Booth: An immense yellow structure made of approximately 2200 square feet of foam, it rose over 25 feet high.Game: Phi Kaps creative game consisted of thro wing balls against levels of tiles which had to be knocked down. The grand prize for winning this game a replica of the Tower of Babel, handmade by the fraternity as well.
Kappa Delta Rho Osiris, King of the DeadBooth: A replica of a pyramidlike tomb with obelisks, hieroglyphics, sphinx-statues, and clay pottery scattered throughout. Although the hieroglyphics all over the walls of the booth appeared to be expertly done by design or art majors, they were done by members of the house from assorted majors.Game: The game was to use a scale to balance a rock with two other objects, a round disk and a feather.
Sigma Tau Gamma The Legend of Casey JonesBooth: A sleek, black model of a railway locomotive. One of the most unique structures on the Midway.Game: In order to play, Carnival goers had to buy tickets from the railroad ticket stand, a historical touch to the booth. The game consisted of working with a miniature railroad set.
Alpha Epsilon Pi Legend of ArachneBooth: It had a giant web on the front and red, purple, and black paintings of spiders and webs scattered around.Game: The object was to throw rubber spiders on a giant web and try to make it stay on the web instead of fall through.
Alpha Tau Omega David and Goliath.Booth: The structure was a completely outdoor, open booth.Game: The brothers of the house stood behind a wooden
cm 
Vegeta^ n?
PnoKotuV'A- Mpv?'pjT
HettiU61? W
6p-M. IM 5H&0 t 
If \s
ew %ip to etevtoo gk>? 
>l()W fWL \S, (2-2-p'K.
(vat at viR, Gjtf: ^
t>e there or eat jpolojnnf J
tw** funded by Student Senate  .wmvpiwJL*-
board with a hole in it where they put their faces. Contestants tried to hit them with water balloons.
Beta Theta Pi  Puff the Magic DragonBooth: A giant paper mach structure of the popular childrens cartoon character Puff.Game: An outdoor basketball net. The giant replica of Puff was very authentic looking; however, it began to crumble under the wear of basketballs consistently hitting it.
Delta Tau Delta Lord of the RingsBooth: One of the largest on the Midway, it was modeled after Lonely Mountain, the mythical home of Smaug the Dragon in J.R.R. Tolkiens novel. The inside of the booth was designed as a treasure trove filled with gold coins and precious gems.Game: The object was to drop coins behind a glass shield and attempt to place them in slots to win, much like a common casino game.
Delta Upsilon  Delta UpsaloonBooth: Modeled after a nineteenth century saloon from the Old West, the booth was made of wood and rose 25 feet high. The presence of bottles of alcohol, a bar, reward posters, and sitting tables gave the booth a thoroughly authentic appearance.Game: Located on the second floor of the booth the object of the game was to use a wooden gun to shoot rubber bands at cans mounted on a spinning wheel.
Pi Kappa Alpha Batman.Booth: Andy Bordick, a junior architectecture major, says, This booth is different this year because all of the materials we used come solely from discarded products. Its pretty ugly, but the detailing is really good.Game: Like a roulette wheel in which people pick numbers and try to spin the same number on the wheel. The grand prize was, of course, a Batman doll.
Pi Lambda Phi  The Red Baron.Booth: It had a model of the Red Barons airplane inside which was being flown by a skelton dressed as the pilot.Game: The game was to throw sponge balls through holes on a wooden board that had a large painting of Snoopy on it.
Sigma Alpha EpsilonMoby DickBooth: On the front was a replica ofthe ship Perquod, an allusion to Herman Melvilles classic tale of the great white whale. The back of the booth had Mobys giant, white tail pointing skyward; in addition, this tail, controlled by motors, moved back and forth just as though Moby was trying to sink the ship.Game: Found in the cabin area, the game was to throw arrows at a wooden plaque of Moby Dick.
Sigma Nu  Lochness Monster.Booth: A simple one.Game: The game was one of the most popular on the Midway. It was a traditional carnival game of throwing ping-pong balls into a glass bowl filled with water in order to win a goldfish.
Theta XiKing Kong.Booth: The front had a large painting of the front page of The New York Times on it with.Game: A traditional Carnival game, players had to bang a large hammer on a bell in order to see how strongthey were. If a player could get the indicator all the way to the top, they won a banana.
Guaranteed Lowest Price:
The finest designs from Europe ... the best designs in America ... 
Dalmo has them all for the guaranteed lowest price.
Dr. B.H. Grossman, 
Director
Dr. R. Greenburgh
Squirrel Hill 5824 FORBES AVE. 521-2100
DALMOOPTICALSAVE 20%
A NEW DISCOUNT
FOR CMU STUDENTS, FACULTY & STAFF
The 23-Checkpoint Eye Exam:
Our computerized eye exam provides a detailed optometric 
profile. The result... confidence in vision for you.
In-House Laboratories:
One hour service is available from our in-house laboratories, 
and you get Dalmos assurance of the highest quality 
and accuracy in the industry.
The New Vision-In frames and Contacts:
Selection. Its the first thing that meets the eye at every Dalmo 
Optical Center. From bold colors and sophisticated profiles in 
frames to extended wear, gas permeable and disposable con
tacts, Dalmo has it all!
BMoh44li ypui Mfi FUFlcDUMhhMhu ^oofn fo fn4 :McUFRC

---------------------------------------------------

MHCE 1C%FModn FMoG errm arydnr
University Oratory of.the Holy Spirit Parish Carnegie Mellon University
4040 Bigelow Boulevard 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213 
681-3181
Daily Masses: 
April 13-14-15
Holy Thursday: 
April 16
Good Friday:
April 17(FAST & ABSTINENCE)
12:00 Noon at Heinz Chapel
12:30 P.M. in Carnegie Mellon Skibo Chapel Room 39
10:00 A.M. Chrism Mass at St. Paul Cathedral
7:00 P.M. The Mass of the Lord's Supper: The Mandatum and Procession of the Blessed Sacrament at Heinz Chapel
12:00 Noon Stations of the Cross in Carnegie Mellon Skibo Wherrett Room
12:30 P.M. The Liturgy of the Passion and Death of the Lord: The Reading of the Passion, the Veneration of the Cross, and Holy Communion 
in Carnegie Mellon Skibo Wherrett Room
12:00 Noon Stations of the Cross at Heinz Chapel
REFLECTIONS ON THE LAST WORDS OF JESUS CHRIST at Heinz Chapel12:30 P.M. "Father, forgive them for they know not what they do [to the people].'12:45 P.M. "I promise you, today you will be with me in paradise [to the thief]."1:00 P.M. "Woman, this is your son [to Mary]. This is your mother [to John]."1:15 P.M. "My God, My God, why have you forsaken me."1:30 P.M. "I thirst."1:45 P.M. "It is finished."2:00 P.M. "Father, into your hands I commend my spirit."
2:30 P.M. The Liturgy of the Passion and Death of the Lord: The Reading of the Passion, the Veneration of the Cross, and Holy Communion 
at Heinz Chapel
Holy Saturday: 
April 18
Easter Sunday: 
April 19
9:00 P.M. The Easter Vigil: The Service of Light, the Liturgy of the Word, the Liturgy of Baptism, and the Liturgy of the Eucharist 
at Heinz Chapel
10:30 A.M. Mass in the Graduate School of Industrial Administration (CMU)
12:00 Noon Solemn Mass at Heinz Chapel
The Sacrament of Reconciliation will be celebrated as follows:
Holy Thursday, April 16: Good Friday, April 17: Holy Saturday, April 18: Easter Sunday, April 19:
6:00 - 6:45 P.M. Heinz Chapel 12:00 - 2:00 P.M. Heinz Chapel 8:00 - 8:45 j1F1 Heinz Chapel 11:00 - 11:45 p1F1 Heinz Chapel
Confessions will also be heard before or after the Daily Masses or by appointment: Please call 681-3181.
SUM ERBUMAK IC SUM ONBBKG!AFU iARBIAr
The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  13 April 1992 1.5
Seth Redmore/Tartan Contributing Editor 
A j4j^4l oT fn4 BMffi^plun /ojjphMfR y4Fji ioj4 oT fn4 j4lMfi oT eSlMhu dFlhMNFy Ff Fh 4FlyR Fu4C
1y33P eub2mA p922wme8S2m ETH
Heat TeamTimeHeatTeamTime
Women's preliminaries
1 Phi Kap B3:05.08Phi Kap A2:11.63
CIA A3:07.9CIA A2:18.40
Pioneers A3:26.2
9Spirit B2:12.81
2 Sigma Nu B3:05.8SDC B2:21.83
Theta Xi BATO B2:27.56
FRINGE C3:30.1
10PiKA B2:14.18
3 Spirit B2:57.2Pi Lam A7t2:22.48
Theta Xi C3:05.2Pioneers B2:33.15
KDR A3:21.4
11SAE A2:16.74
4 PiKA B3:05.9Theta Xi A2:18.38
Pioneers B3:06.34DU B2:29.6
DU A3:07.28
12Sigma Nu A2:15.98
5 DTD A3:03.4KDR Adisqualifie
ATO A3:11.2FRINGE B2:21.80
CIA A3:43.4
13. ATO A
6 KSA AdisqualifiedDTD A2:17.21
FRINGE A2:57.89Phi Kap B
SDC A3:05.38
14PIKA A2:10.79
^ Theta XI A2:41.47SDC A2:23.22
Pioneers A2:58.63Sigma Tau A
Sigma Tau A3:15.84
15Spirit A2:07.01
8 PiKA A2:45.52Pioneers A2:21.06
Phi Kap A2:53.01Theta Xi C2:53.90
Sigma Nu3:15.84
Women's Finals
9 Spirit A2:35.92
FRINGE B3:03.001PIKA A2:44.74
ATO B3:08.8Spirit B2:58.85
Men's Preliminaries2Theta Xi A2:43.29
1 DUC2:31.47Sigma Nu A2:56.33
3Spirit A2:33.52
2 PiKAD2:28.14Phi Kap A2:51.45
FRINGE C2:29.66
Pioneers C2:38.19Men's Finals
3 KDR B2:31.421CIA A2:18.63
CIA B2:37.5ATOA2:33.55
4 Theta Xi B2:22.12PiKA B2:14.18
Sigma Nu C2:29.88Theta XI A2:19.37
5 Spirit C3Spirit B2:12.39
KSA A2:33.71DTD A2:17.46
SDC C2:35.00
4Phi Kap A2:15.10
6 SAE BdisqualifiedSigma Nu B2:19.61
PiKA C2:23.09
DU A5PiKA A2:09.37
SAE A2:12.53
1 Sigma Nu B2:17.2
FRINGE Adisqualified6Spirit A2:07.39
KDR C2:32.09Sigma Nu A2:15.85
^------------ . .
Ignatius sasmlta/ lartan contributing Editor 
L /loUc ifolj4c fn4 Fl4F oT fn4 dpf opfiMc4 fn4 t4hf eFfplcFR hMunf fo n4Fl dFlhMNFy /nFMli Fhhoph/4 
moofn Fhc mpuuR FUFlc UMhh4liC

---------------------------------------------------

Spring Carnival

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

ear pleasin tunes ear pleasin tunes ear pleasin tunes
L8 The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  13 April 1992
CARNIVAL ENTERTAINMENT
(3la pmb36 fl ,m.86u u62nsu 28 Co2ye ym63 n.uumgl u2t8e
By DEREK WAHELA
Tartan Asst. Production Mgr.
Around 1:30 pm on Saturday I 
headed over to The Cut to get my 
place in front of the stage for the 
They Might Be Giants concert. 
On my way over I was informed 
by WRCT that it had been moved 
to the Gymnasium due to 
weather. I thought this was odd 
since it was sunny and 70 de
grees, but I wanted to see the 
concert so I headed to the Gym. 
I wag almost first in line and my 
level of excitement was incred
ibly high. After over three hours 
of waiting in line, the doors were 
at last opened. A mad rush to 
the front of the Gym allowed me 
a set front and center. The last 
minute sound checks were be
ing made and finally it was time.
The opening band was The 
Lonesome Debonairs, a middle 
aged' country-rock band. They 
crowd did not seem very recep
tive to this talented band, and I 
think the quality of the sound 
had something to do with it. The 
vocals were loud and distorted, 
and the guitars were drowned 
out by the drums. For the songs 
that "could be enjoyed, the band 
performed well, and as the per
formance went on the crowd be
gan to warm up to it. The band 
announced the release of itsnew 
album which is on sale at Jims 
Records.
AB Concert chair, junior me
chanical engineer Julian 
Hollings-head came onto the 
stage and welcomed us all to the 
concert. He apologized for the 
concert being held indoors, and 
invited everyone to crowd the 
stage. With this, the entire au
dience stood up and packed into 
the first 20 feet of floorspace (a 
bad idea given the poor ventila
tion in the Gym.) Now we were 
ready for what we had all come
for: They Might Be Giants.
After what seemed like an eter
nity (approximately 25 minutes), 
the background music stopped, 
and a new version Up,Up, And 
Away was played. The stage 
lights began to flash and the 
spotlights lit up. A new song 
began, and off to the right a door 
opened, and John Flansburgh 
and John Linnell came running 
onto the stage.
My first reaction, since this 
was the first time I had seen 
them in concert was, theyre so 
plain. The band members were 
dressed in jeans and t-shirts 
(street clothes as they refer to 
them). They grabbed their re
spective instruments: Linnell his 
accordion, and Flansburgh his 
electric guitar  which wasnt 
plugged in for the first song al
though he motioned as if he was 
playing it. They jumped right 
into Shes Actual Size, a song 
off their new album Apollo 18. 
In rapid succession they com
pleted four or five songs from 
their various albums.
After these songs, they paused 
to greet everyone and took note 
of the tremendous storm taking 
place outside (NOT!) and the 
excellent acoustics of Thistle 
Hall.
In the next batch of songs, 
they played another song from 
the new album, Narrow Your 
Eyes and Midway through the 
song the PA system went out. 
Linnell and Flansburgh began 
conversing on stage and reached 
an agreement to perform a song 
from the 50s that they sang on a 
street comer and received $10 
from a relative of the person 
who wrote the song.
The concert continued on with 
their performing songs like 
Boat of Car, Ana Ng,, Purple 
Toupee, and Birdhouse in Your 
Soul, off their older albums, as
well as Space Suit and I Pal
indrome I from Apollo 18. These 
were mixed with conversations 
with the audience and each 
other. At one point they even 
conversed with the technicians 
over the placement of the lights 
(which were moved soon after.)
The stage show was a mini
mal performance, consisting of 
John and John with an electric 
guitar, an accordion, a bass clari
net, a snare drum, a cymbal, 
and a pedal controlled synthe
sizer. The synthesizer had the 
drum tracks and some bass lines 
recorded in it. The synthesizer 
is a necessary portion of the 
show because they play and 
record all their own music.
Towards the end of the show, 
they announced the next song 
as Nothing Can Change My 
Chair  interestingly enough, 
they dont have a song by this 
name (but I think this was in
tentional). They did however, 
play Nothings Gonna Change 
My Clothes followed immedi
ately by Someone Keeps Mov
ing My Chair. This is a perfect 
example of the style and person
ality that makes They Might Be 
Giants the unique band it is.
The concert lasted only an 
hour, but even-this was a re
spectable amount since the ma
jority of songs are less than two 
minutes long. They closed the 
show by thanking everyone in 
the known universe and play
ing Dig My Grave.
No one was ready for the con
cert to end here, and the crowd 
began to chant ISTAN 
BUL! ISTANBUL! (insti
gated by yours truly). The chant 
went strong for the first couple 
of minutes or so, but began to 
fade as people grew weary of 
screaming and stomping.
Just when almost all hope 
was lost they came back perA.o8mg.I^u A2o8lo U6.bl utss2o6u u6tel869 so2vluum28.I slov2on.8Clu
audience, and the mood became increasingly light.
The impromptu arrival of George Schevon brought a series of 
ludicrous duets. Undaunted by a failure in the sound system and 
a broken guitar string, the two friends launched a hilarious tune 
about a cow, donuts, and Joe Namath in the kitchen. The song was 
reminiscent of good friends, late nights, and that state of intoxica
tion that breeds a somewhat bizarre, yet wonderful creativity. 
Although the lyrics were nonsensical, Ireland and Schevon pulled 
them off splendidly: Their easy interaction with each other was 
entertaining to watch, and their playful, contagious mood trans
ferred to the audience.
Although his work is influenced by Jackson Browne, Ireland 
possesses a distinct musical style of his own. His voice is deep and 
sonorous, and versatile enough to adapt to the wide spectrum of 
music in his act. The show is also enhanced by his strong guitar 
playing.
In addition to the fine musical quality, watching Ireland perform 
was enjoyable in itself. One of his major assets is the rapport he has 
with his audience: his relaxed attitude, particularly during the less 
serious segments, contributed to erasing the usually explicit bound
ary between the audience and the performer. This refreshing 
approach was entirely apropos for the spirit of Carnival.
Ireland ended his act with Jackson Brownes For Every Man, 
sung with Schevon. It was the best part of the show, merging the 
more reflective aspects of the earlier portion with the more laid 
back part of the act. For Every Man was the perfect choice to end 
an altogether fantastic performance.
 Orya Dasna
Bumpy Toast, Boxxtrotters
Saturday, April 10, spectators at the Spring Carnival Comer 
Stage saw the performances of two bands about as different as tiiey 
could get. After a twenty minute delay due to equipment problems, 
Zan Aronowitz opened with two acoustic guitar songs for the 
alternative music group, Bumpy Toast. Immediately following 
Bumpy Toast was a cover band, The Boxxtrotters.
Bumpy Toast performed an hour of alternative music to a large 
crowd of mixed high school and college-aged men and women 
wearing silver crosses, halter tops or cut-offs, and combat boots. 
Bumpy Toasts self-written music often inspired members of this 
crowd to dance, slam dance that is.
Bumpy Toast is comprised of Zach Schuman, lead vocals; Eoin 
Russell, guitar; Todd Yamron, bass; and Matt Meholsan, drums. 
Bumpy Toast members have come together from a variety of other 
musical ventures to form the band, and are currently participating 
in The Beehives Battle of the High School Bands. Three of Bumpy 
Toasts members are currently in high school  the average age pf
forming a very interesting ver
sion of Istanbul complete with 
echo effects and vocal alter
ations, giving the perfect
Flansburgh and Linnell ending 
to a perfect They Might Be Gi
ants concert. The duo made a 
concert in the Gym better than
anyone could expect. One could 
only hope that a group like this 
will be at next years exciting 
Spring Carnival.
band members is seventeen  but showed a collegiate affinity for 
exhibitionism. Not only did lead singer Zach Schuman drop his 
pants during the show, but at the end of the performance, encour
aged the audience to participate in a 5 second, group pants drop
ping. Many male members of the audience gladly took the opportu
nity to show off their boxer shorts. Bassist Todd Yamron character
ized Bumpy Toasts goals and ideology as to have fun [and be] open 
minded.
Following Bumpy Toast was The Boxxtrotters, a cover band 
composed of musicians who met at West Virginia University where 
they are all students. The Boxxtrotters music was more main
stream than Bumpy Toast, playing cover songs from Billy Joel, the 
Doors, and Led Zeppelin. The Boxxtrotters audience was also more 
mainstream, there was no slam dancing but lots of humming, 
singing along with the music, and right foot tapping. Also enjoying 
the music was the self described Crazy Adam, a seventy year old 
man who danced throughout The Boxxtrotters hour long set. 
Crazy Adam was so taken with the Boxxtrotters performance
Seth Redmore/Tartan Photographer 
Bumpy Toasts prelude to dropping their pants.
that he asked every woman who went past to dance.
The Boxtrotters originated in Morgantown, West Virginia and - 
are comprised of Jim Werner, lead vocals; Abe, bass; Joe Wolfred, - 
guitar; Brian McConachy, guitar; and Ken Maisel, drums, they - 
have been together for a year and a half, with the musical experi- : 
ence of each member of the band going back at least seven years. : 
The Boxxtrotters play many college arenas and fraternities in 
addition to bars and clubs. In September, the Boxxtrotters will 
record an EP at Audiomation in Pittsburghs Northside. Asked 
about the bands goals, bassist Abe said they are hoping to make 
it [by] playing our asses off.
Both the Boxxtrotters and Bumpy Toast played at Carnival free 
of charge as promotions for their groups. Bumpy Toast will be 
Please see CARNIVAL MUSIC page L9
Thomas Nichols/Tartan Contributing Editor 
They Might Be Giants conquer its large audience with their unique style.
Vastly Untapped, Matt Ireland
The musical performances which occurred at the comer tent on 
the midway on the Saturday of Carnival were quite goodat least 
the part that could be heard. The sound quality of the show was 
dreadful; the audience, although in close proximity to the perform
ers, could barely hear them. The quality of the sound that could be 
heard was also inferior. Despite technical setbacks, however, the 
musicians managed to execute enjoyable shows.
The band Vastly Untapped., composed entirely of Carnegie Mellon 
students, played predominantly folk style music. The lead singer,
Matt Ireland strums his guitar and rattles off some tunes.
Sherri Johnson, had a melodic voice, like the female third of Peter, 
Paul, and Mary. The presence of an equally talented male auxiliary 
singer, Nate Loofbourrow, in addition to the bass of Jesse Klemmer 
and Mike Shapiros keyboard, also contributed to the performance.
Unfortunately, the act did not have much of a variety of moods, 
with the exception of the humorous The Last Dinnertime Argu
ment of Lord Albert and Lady Liza. Most of the pieces performed 
had a serious, somewhat melancholy quality to them. According to 
Shapiro, however, the one-sidedness of the show was due to time 
limitations; this prevented the band from performing more of their 
upbeat material. The concert was misrepresentative of our music, 
said Shapiro, Were more classic rock with some slower ballads. 
[We want to leave the audience with a] happy, sad, happy feeling.
Variety, however, was one of the many high points of Matthew 
Irelands show. The senior graphic communications major played 
a wide range of music, from the pensive to the comical. Ireland 
began the show with serious pieces as the affective My Brothers 
Shoes and the bittersweet Delicate Threads. As the act pro
gressed, Ireland seemed, to become more comfortable witji the

---------------------------------------------------

follow the piper follow the piper
(3l (.o6.8 * A.o8lbml plII28 * TW 1somI THHR EH
Save $4 on Haircuts with this Ad
Reg. $16 to $19.50 
Valid Mon-Fri 9am-3pm with Select Stylist
Lewis Hair Salon 813 S. Aiken Ave. Shadyside 682-4063
Offer expires April 30, 1992
ptumC o2CPu A.o8mg.I pmey.a
Ignatius Sasmita/Tartan Contributing Editor
The show could not begin without the bagpipers. Carnivals 
opening ceremonies would be nothing without this group of 
musicians.
hip shades, Big Daddy did up an 
evening of rhythm and blues in 
grand style. By the end of the 
show, this local band, including 
Robby Smith on trombone had 
shown that they were definitely 
hot.
Although the performance 
started out a bit slow moving, it 
picked up as the evening went 
on. After a few upbeat numbers 
like James Browns I Feel 
Good, things cooled down for an 
excellent song entitled Rhythm 
and Blues. With Claptonesque 
guitar and a deep, guttural male 
lead, this song had a really 
strong, bluesy feel. The muted 
trumpet solo and the outstand
ing sax solo sounded great and 
fit in well with the mood.
The rest of the evening was of 
equal quality, with the band 
heating up more and more as it 
fed from the audiences energy. 
The crowd really seemed to en
joy the performance, even get
ting up to dance, and giving 
standing ovations for several 
solos.
Other solos that were particu
larly hot were Thunder and 
Lightening, Ride Sally Ride, 
Papas Got a Brand New Bag, 
and the classic Blues Brothers 
song, Im a Man. Throughout 
these songs, all the musicians 
were allowed solos that showed 
off their ability to add to the 
bands sound.
The evening ended with a 
great rendition of Lou Reeds 
Take a Walk On the Wild 
Side.The lead vocalists voice 
was almost perfect for the song 
and the sax solos proved to be 
extremely hip, receiving much 
deserved applause from the au
dience. The jazzy/funk sound of 
the group definitely appealed to 
all.
 Tina Urso
IF YOURE INTO COCAINE. WEVE GOT A LINE FOR YOil.
CARNIVAL MUSIC, from page L8
opening for The Chainsaw Kit
tens at Graffiti Wednesday, 
April 14. Bumpy Toast will also 
be performing in the Beehives 
Battle of the College Bands on 
April 18.
 Bob Dixon
Big Daddy
If you werent too busy with all 
the other Carnival things on 
Thursday night, you might have 
been lucky enough to catch Big 
Daddy and the Living Large 
Band, the first act to play in the 
tent this past weekend. Before 
the band opened, they seemed 
concerned with the interference 
of the sound outside the tent, 
but once they got started it be
came quite apparent that Car
nival noise would be no problem 
for this them.
Complete with keyboards, 
drums, dominating female vo
calist, classically nonchalant 
bass player, brass section of 
trumpet and trombone, tenor 
saxophone, and a guitar player/ 
lead male vocalist with ultra vx J* iJl. vi
Thomas Nichols/
Tartan Contributing Editor
Tom Acousti belts it.Tom Acousti
Talented singer/songwriter - 
Tom Acousti made his way back 
to the CMU campus, for Camival and once again impressed ' 
crowds with his honest lyrics ' 
and grassroots-like songs. His 
performance was once again ex
citing and it was great to see 
him again.
The best news is that he will r 
be back again. Next week, he : 
will be filming a concert video at  
the Mellon Institute.
Acousti chose to come back to 
CMU to perform because of the 
maturity of the student body and 
the way that it understands his. 
music.
Acousti is looking for his big. 1 
break, but he doesnt want to, 
have to change his music style  
for any record company in order 
to appeal to the urban contem- " 
porary charts.
Until Acousti finds a record, 
company that wont make him 
change his tune, he will produce 
and record his music indepen
dently. With his many talents 
and business sense, hell make 
it big.
 Marni Borek
NK^wK Vi((h), =wi,U Li( LS wiUh)KUUM
fG9k4i9sEm3 tJ9 G w9IFaC9ii y0i9m-G
Hsfn-I Chow/Tartan Photo Staff Manager 
Another jazz band, Anacrusis.
Now there's another tragic 
side effect of cocaine.
Its called unemployment. 
Last year alone, America's
businesses lost more than $60 
billion to drugs. So this year, 
most of the Fortune 500 will be 
administering drug tests. Fail
ing the test means you won't be 
considered for employment.
And thats a little dose 
of reality.
j 1111

---------------------------------------------------

EhL(3l (.o6.8 * A.o8lbml plII28 * TW 1somI THHR
Things that make you go ha! Things that make you go ha!
=2n hoolo.9 SlImCm. pmC3.lIu9 .8e Us.8Pa vmol _2Plu .6 .teml8Clu
Dorn Irrera  Did youhear the one about grandma and her goiter stories?
Comedian Dom Irrera ap
peared in the tent Friday night,
 around 9 pm. He gave an hour
' long show, and kept the audi
ence in stiches the entire time.
 Irreras credits include appear ances oh HBO, Comic Strip Live,
'Sunday Comics, MTV, Show
time, and many others. He ap
peared after Tom Acousti, and
- jumped right into his act.
Irrera opened up his act by 
mocking AB Coffeehouse chair 
Gleb Klioner, a junior IMmajor, 
who had tried his hand at com
edy before Irrera appeared on 
stage. Man! When he gave that 
line about sleeping in the car 
after eating at Taco BellI was 
on the floor!
- Irrera also heckled the audi
ence. A young woman in the 
front row tried to slip out. Have 
a good poop! he called after her. 
One guy'came in late. Aw,. 
Irrera said, you put on a tie for 
meyou didnt have to do that. 
Look how sharp he looks with 
his hair all greased down like 
that! A lot of guys cant wear 
that look, but on you it looks 
good!
One of Irreras trademarks are 
his impersonations. He imitates 
people, then brings their per
sonal sayings back into the act 
later on. His most famous one is 
I dont mean that in a bad way.
My cousin Louie, he says, is 
one of those Italian guys that 
use it as an eraser phrase. You 
can say anything you want, and 
as long as you say I dont mean 
that in a bad way, its okay. 
That guy is a low life, scummy, 
human crap-like weasel bastard
 I dont mean that in a bad 
way. Yeah  he means it the 
best possible way you can mean 
it.
Irrera had a couple of other 
lines like that: My cousin Louie 
is homophobic  hes always 
worried about being gay. He al
ways asks, Dom, that doesnt 
make me gay, does it? I dont 
want to be gay. See, I was watch
ing one of those body building
Kevin Chen/Tartan Photographer 
Dom Irrera discusses goiters.
things, Im just eating, Im not 
concentrating on anything, and 
its not like Ive got a full-blown 
boner, or nothin  but it defi
nitely got thicker. That doesn't 
make me gay does it?
Irrera made fun of his family 
for most of the act. Everyone 
from his many cousins (espe
cially Louie) to his grandmother 
to his parents are victims of his 
wisecracks.
My cousin Johnny is so inap
propriate. Hes the kind of guy 
that walks into the house and 
says Hey, what stinks in here? 
What, something die in this 
place? Hey John, were having 
dinner.Oh, I dont mean that in 
a bad way ... Its like a good 
stink!
My family only talks about 
food and disease. Ill be eating 
dinner, lift the fork up, and my 
grandma will say Dom, you re
member your cousin Delores? 
"Yeah, Grandma. Shes got a 
goiter on her neck, a big goiter, 
right here. Oh, have a meatball. 
Yeah, a big goiter with lots of 
drainage. Oh, have some gravy.
My cousin gave me some ad
vice the other day. Take some 
aspirin for that, itll clear right 
up  but hey, Im not a doctor of 
anything. No, really? I thought 
that tile layingjob was just some
thing you did between retinal 
surgery! Boy, the medical com
munity is gonna be crushed over 
this one.
Irrera switched from topic to 
topic, impersonation to imper
sonation smoothly. He never for
got a line, missed a beat, or 
looked uncomfortable on stage. 
Obviously, his tone is primarily 
sarcastic. As they say, comedy 
consists of making fun of certain 
people so that other people can 
laugh. Irrera apparently knows 
this, and he takes advantage of 
his knowledge. He doesnt go too 
far out of line, however  there 
were several senior citizens in 
attendance, and they laughed 
right along with the students.
Irreras act was a rehash of all 
his televised acts. He made fun 
of bald people, fat people, short 
people, celebrities, and every
one else that he could think of. 
There was at least one joke to 
insult everyone in the audience, 
and at least 20 to make every
one laugh. Hes got his act down, 
and he is damn good at it. Irrera 
is a great comic and he gave a 
great show Friday night.
Aaron Jenkins
Felicia Michaels Have you ever compared edible underwear to a fruit rollup?
Jeans, a denim shirt, and cow
boy boots seemed to have been 
the uniform for comedians on 
Saturday night. Following 
Spankys lead, Felicia Michaels 
wore just that when she per
formed in the tent at 8 pm for a 
crowd that overflowed the con
fines of the tent. With her blonde 
hair and young-sounding voice, 
a couple of men from the audi
ence thought she would be an 
easy target for heckling. She 
proved them wrong.
The Kennedys are a source of 
jokes with Felicia Michaels. She 
was born on November 22,1963, 
the day John F. Kennedy was 
assassinated. So whenever 
people ask her What were you 
doing when John F. Kennedy 
was shot? She replies, The 
same thing Ted was doing  
lunging for a tit. Her brother
Reality Optional improvises comedy
By AMY POTTHAST
Tartan Features Editor
For a zany hour of crazed 
creativity, Reality Optional is 
it. This group of five malleable 
and talented performers took 
the tent Saturday night and 
filled it with improvised songs 
and scenes. With help from an 
enthusiastic audience, Reality 
Optional filled in the gaps of 
some skeleton situations with 
suggestions and ideas from the 
crowd.
The situations ranged from 
spontaneous poetry recitations 
on inventory to a suspenseful 
game of Jeopardy! with answers 
that were provided by the audi
ence, and questions and cat
egories that were invented by
the contestants.
The questions Reality Op
tional folks asked to solicit re
sponses from the audience were 
questions such as Name a re
ally bad actor, to which the au
dience immediately replied, 
William Shatner, and Whats 
something you should never do 
in a bowl of Rice-a-Roni, evok
ing a Masturbate! from one 
audience member. With the re
sponses, the Reality Optional 
players made up songs, commer
cials, game shows, and talk 
shows.
The most interesting and in
tellectually impressive of the 
series of scenes that the crew 
came up with was one in which 
the audience was asked to shout 
out names of famous play
wrights: Shakespeare, Becket, 
Euripides, Williams, ONeal, 
and Shaw were among those 
mentioned. Two players began 
improvising a scene, and here 
and there a third player would 
call out the names of the play
wrights.
With each name, the two 
players would adopt the style 
of the playwright. Although the 
scene itself evolved as lessthan-coherent, the players did 
a decent job of switching rap
idly from style to style.
Reality Optionals fairly keen 
sense of timing and sense of 
humor afforded the audience 
with a chance to witness some 
never-seen-before skits filled 
with quick wit and imagpitive 
revelations.
wKUK1wAc 0SLwp1(hL)
tsrgesl Library ol information in U. S. 
all subjects
Oroer Caid.uy looay wiin Visa MC or COD800-351 0222
Or ^usn ST 00 lo Research Information".I.1.' 'dcW .Or p ;. os Angles CA 900?5>
Have you thought 
^ about priestly or 
religious 
life?
Still thinking? 
Want to talk?
Father Drew Morgan, CO  681-3181 
Sister Madeleine Gregg, IcJ  661-9260 
Sister Bernadette Young, CDP  681-3181
Adoption
We can make this 
difficult time easier 
for you.
We are a white, 
professional couple 
whose deepest wish is 
for a baby to love and 
make happy. We will 
pay your expenses. All 
very legal and very 
confidential. Our female 
attorney shares our 
dream of placing your 
child with us. Please 
call her now for a free 
consultation.
(412) 563-6660
mmMLMUw KrMAhCw
ALL-YOU 
CAN-EATSPAGHETTI
with garlic toast
^ 1922 Murray Ave.  Squirrel Hill  521-8222
was born on the day Robert 
Kennedy was killed. Ted 
Kennedy really wanted her 
mother to have her tubes tied.
She spent a lot of time talking 
about her boyfriend and men in 
general. She learned that Good 
going, Macgyver is not the thing 
to say to a man who has taken 
some piece of electronic equip
ment apart and cant put it back 
together. She keeps her boy
friend under control by remind
ing him that he is going bald.
Thomas Nichols/Tartan 
Contributing Editor
Felicia Michaels.
She accepts that this is not the 
solution for all men. She saw an 
electric dog collar that gives the 
animal an electric shock when it 
goes beyond a certain distance 
point and thought what a hor
rible thing it was to do to a dog. 
But she advocates using this 
method on men. He says: Honey, 
Im going out with the guys to
night. Zap! As he walks out the 
door.
Michaels says that men are 
clueless about romance. They 
think that edible underwear is 
romantic. A fruit roll-up with a 
crotch is romantic?
She also asked the question: 
What is male bonding? She 
claimed that male bonding is 
men getting together, drinking 
a lot of beer, and touching peepees in the dark.
 Tara Seman
Spanky  Theres a new way to use your farts in a productive manner!
Drawing a good-sized crowd 
under the tent Saturday at 6:30 
pm, Spanky started his perfor
mance by giving a list of all the 
kinds of jokes he doesnt tell. 
Dressed in jeans with ripped 
knees, a denim shirt with the 
word love in calico letters, and 
cowboy boots, he wore his long 
hair pulled back in a ponytail. 
He talked of growing up halfJewish and half-Irish in Texas: 
Ive always had this urge to buy 
whiskey wholesale.
The Star Search finalist acted 
distressed over the fact that he 
lost in the Star Search finals. 
And that was after I slept with 
Ed McMahon. Eds big hairy 
butt...  said Spanky, shivering. 
That definitely brought an un
pleasant scene to my mind.
He told the crowd that he had 
been to Pittsburgh before; he 
performed at Pitt. This revela
tion brought the usual groans. 
In response, Spankyvolunteered 
to speak slower if there were 
any Pitt students in the audi
ence, but he got the best re
sponse when he asked the ques
tion: What does it take to get 
into that school? A Number 2 
pencil. Spanky revealed that 
he was a law and psychology 
major in college  That way I 
could be an asshole and know 
why. Then he talked of explor
ing Pittsburgh and going to Gi
ant Eagle and tangling with a 
fat woman who berated him for 
buying Fruit Loops, saying they 
contained too much sugar. 
Spanky responded, Well, at 
least my cereal bowl doesnt come 
with a lifeguard.
Speaking of his life as a come
dian, he does a lot of traveling. 
When commenting on Arkan
sas, he said, I wouldnt live there 
for a dog that shit cocaine.
New York was interesting, too. 
He went to the Central Park Zoo 
and was amazed by the huge 
crowd that was gathered around 
a cow. That was until he saw 
that a graffiti artist had some
how gotten a hold of the cow and 
painted Eat me! on it.
Then Spanky got to the theme 
of his show, Men are Sluts. Sis 
statement, Men are scum, sluts, 
and pigs, but damn, were 
proud, got cheers from both 
sexes in the audience. He also 
claimed that men are hung Up 
on the size of their penises, and 
he talked about Magnum 
condoms, which are for the man 
with a larger-than-average pe
nis. (Theres a sight gag that 
goes with this joke. He walks 
keeping one leg stiff and pre
tends to ask for a price check^on 
the 48-count box of MagnUm 
condoms.) He also claims that 
God has a sense of humor " I 
realize this every time Im na
ked. The audience went wild 
when he talked about how men 
had no clue about romance;-he 
asked the men if they knew what 
romance was, then quoted from 
a love scene in a Harlequin ro
mance novel. But its the open
ing line thats really important.
Thomas Nichols/Tartan 
Contributing Editor
It's Spanky!!
Just do what I say and no one 
will get hurt. Spanky credited a 
Kennedy with that line.
Spanky left the crowd with 
this crude little trick. Next tinie 
youre at the drive-in window at 
the bank, fart in that tube and 
watch all the tellers look at each 
other. An easy concept. Well 
have to try it at some point.
 Tara Seman
Apartment 
Hunting?
Need Help?
Meet Norma Shaw, 
off-campus housing 
coordinator, to learn 
about the process.
Morewood Gardens 
MondayFriday 11-7 
Saturday 11-3 
X2139
A Service of the Housing Office

---------------------------------------------------

(3l (.o6.8 * A.o8lbml plII28 * TW 1somI THHRin
Thrills, chills, and spills! Thrills, chills, and spills!
lose lunch and money spinning upside down at Carnival
What would the midway look like without the rides?
By AARON JENKINS
Tartan Asst. Diversions Editor
Gravitron
The first impression I got of 
this ride was that it was too well 
finished to be a traveling camy 
ride. The oh-so-humorous and 
grizzled operator informed the 
lucky riders that it was brand 
,new, and dag-gum if it wasnt 
gonna stay that way.
The idea behind this ride is 
that if you spin a cylinder fast 
enough, everything inside it will 
be pressed up against the walls. 
And it worked. There is no feel
ing of spinning, however, be. .cause the Gravitron is enclosed,
. iand the inside appears station
ary. It becomes obvious that 
something is up when you are 
pushed back against the walls,
- and eventually up them. Sounds 
like a neat idea, but it was bor
ing, probably because all you 
.could see were the people on the 
ride. No thrills, no chills, no 
vomit. This must be the kind
lier, gentler carnival ride. I ad
mit that I should have been 
drunk when I rode the Gravitron. 
Everyone tells me that it be
came an awesome experience 
^then. As I experienced it, though, 
it sucked.
Fun 'k Barfs 0
Scooter
- This is what the rest of the 
world calls Bumper Cars. As 
; such, what can be said about it? 
"You drive around, hit people, 
_and get hit. Ive seen better ex1 amples,andrve seen worse ones; 
-this was nothing special. It did 
-have two things going for it; 1) it 
was kind of violent, and 2) it was
Kids control
By MARNIBOREK
Tartan Diversions Editor
,. There were some people who 
never made it to the midway.
. No, it wasnt because the booths 
and rides werent interesting 
enough. It was because the 
kiddie rides in the Warner Hall 
parking lot were too exciting. 
CMU adjunct history professor 
Tim Kelly had this problem. His 
two young daughters Caitlin 5, 
and Erin 3, took charge for the 
day making their rounds on the 
Fun Boat, the helicopters, and 
the dragons.
Give us tickets! Give us tick
ets! Caitlin and Erin yelled as 
soon as Kelly whipped the small 
batch of tickets out of his pocket. 
The girls hopped onto their first 
rideflying cars in the shape of 
dragons while Kelly and his in
fant son Eamon watched them 
twirl round and round in the air. 
Eamon wasnt as impressed with 
carnival as his sisters were. He 
had that middle aged fed up gri
macing look on his face which 
read as Ive got better things to 
do than watch my sisters sus
pended in the air in small metal 
cages.
Our favorite part is when the 
ride went up and down, com
mented Caitlin after getting off 
the ride. Erin didnt feel like 
giving her review of the ride. 
She turned away shyly.
The girls then charged over to 
wait on line for the helicopter 
ride.
Are they going to go without 
us? Caitlin piped up as the man 
in charge of the ride began let
ting children on the ride. Erin 
pulled at her pink t-shirt in anbetter than the Gravitron. 
Fun 'k'k Barfs 0
SeaRay
This ride is called The Pirate 
at amusement parks every
where. Its a long ship that 
swings back and forth in an arc; 
sounds great, doesnt it? The de
scription cant give justice to the 
good thing about this ride, the 
weightless feeling you get at the 
top of the arc when the seat falls 
out from under you. This is what 
makes the ride worth going on, 
especially if you are drunk, then 
the SeaRay becomes a wondrous 
experience, the least painful of 
the rides with a true barf rating. 
It wont make you sick unless 
youre in bad shape, but if you 
are....
Fun Barfs 'k'k
SkyDiver
Ive always felt that this was 
the ultimate carny ride any
where, and this years SkyDiver 
was especially impressive be
cause it was under repairs for a 
long time on Friday. For those of 
you who have lived in a cave all 
of your life, the SkyDiver is like 
a Ferris wheel; except that in
stead of the Ferris wheel 
benches, you sit inside an en
closed car which spins indepen
dently of the wheel. Yup, spin
ning in your car while spinning 
in a big vertical circle - what 
could be better? Well, goingbackward and forward, which makes 
the SkyDiver all the better.
Theres nothing quite like hur
tling down towards the parking 
lot at top speed while spinning
ticipation.
Caitlin and Erin then joined 
in with masses of youngens on 
the gerbil wheel part of the Fun 
Boat. And once again Eamon 
watched them with that almost 
condescending expression that 
said Yeah? Well put me in that 
thing and Ill show all of you how 
to crawl.
Kelly observed them from the 
sideline in that usual waitingfor-children-to-get-off-carnivalride or have-to- hold-wifes-pocketbook manner. One could tell 
he was hoping to go on the 
Gravitron.
out of control, and that is what 
makes the SkyDiver worth 
riding. The downside to this ride 
is that it can hurt you  espe
cially when your co-rider gets 
thrown against you, and your 
shoulder and arm get crushed 
into those ridiculously placed 
bolts that drill into your arm 
and bruise your shoulder and 
well, thats not the important 
part. Its a classic.
Fun 'k'k'&'k Barfs
SuperLoops
This is really just a plain old 
roller coaster loop with a train 
on it. The train builds up speed
As the sky grew darker and 
the girls continued to make their 
rounds on the rides over and 
over again while Eamon looked 
on unperturbed by his surround
ings, it was obvious that there 
was no way to get over to the 
booths and play some of the 
games.
Kids have that certain capac
ity of spinning in circles for hours 
and not getting bored of it. Kelly 
is just going to have to wait till 
theyre a little older to make it to 
the midway. And even then, 
]therell always be those tempt
ing grown-up rides....
until it has the momentum to go 
around the loop. This is bad 
enough (since its not smooth, 
but a series of rushes), but then 
they stop you at the top of the 
loop and leave you hanging - 
sometimes for about 20 seconds.
Hanging upside-down is not a 
big deal, unless youre in a onesize-fits-all seat. The average 
person will find themselves dan
gling, with their head pressed 
on the roof and their butt five 
inches off the seat, being held in 
only but a very thin steel rod on 
top of your car that was put in 
place by a guy who looks like he 
came out of Deliverance. That is 
scary. At least you could see the
Sam Greenfield/Tartan Assistant Art Editor
top of the parking garage to 
take your mind off of the Duel
ing Banjos.
Due to the sudden bursts of 
speed, the SuperLoops wins 
highest barf rating. And Im 
hard pressed to chose a winner 
between this and the SkyDiver 
in the Fun category.
Fun 'k'k'k'k Barfs
Sizzler
Everyone knows what this is, 
but its kind of hard to explain. 
There are three horizontal arms 
that spin in a circle, and at
tached to each arm is a spinning
vertical arm, and attacked, to 
each vertical arm are four cars. 
Its kind of like the SkyDiver in 
that you are spinning in two 
separate circles at once.
The Sizzler is a pretty slow 
and calm ride (you still get 
squashed against the side, by 
the other person in your seat, 
again like the SkyDiver), but 
that isnt necessarily bad - .the 
little kids dig it, anyway. In my 
case, it was a nice change of pace 
after the SuperLoops. It cer
tainly has an evil side to .it, 
thoughthe temptation to spit 
off of it is worse than any other 
ride, maybe because you come 
within two feet of the specta
tors.
Fun -k'k Barfs 0
Ratings system 
Fun:
fc'k'klk fun fun! 
-k'k'k pretty good 
'k'k alright 
'k forget it!
Barf:
'k^k'k'k spew it! 
-k^k'k bile 
'k'k dry heave 
'k forget it!
CARNIVAL SNACKS: A BRIEF ANALYSIS
FUNNEL CAKE: A fairly pleasant tasting food for outdoor enjoyment. However, there was 
one problem though. The funnel cake makers shouldn't have been out in the open where 
people could see them being fished out of the oil. It was inhuman.
COTTON CANDY: Cavity cravers' favorite snack. It's too bad the lines for this treat were too 
long to wait in. Is there any way of making this concoction more available on the midway?
SNOW CONES: A great price for this cold, classic snack. But were we paying for the large 
chunk of ice or the small amount of flavor syrup? Still, these play an intrisic part of a carnival, 
so it was worth it.
WINGS
Women In Non-traditional Graduate 
Studies
is presenting a panel discussion on:
Career-Family Issues
Speakers: ^Jennifer Sinclair, Assistant Professor 
Chemical Engineering, CMU 
*Indira Nair, Associate Dept. Head and Lecturer 
Engineering and Public Policy, CMU 
*Rich Stem, Associate Professor
Electrical and Computer Engineering, CMU 
*Cherie Moshier, Architect - ;
Civil Engineering, CMU
When: Monday, 13 April 1992, 6:00-7:30 pm
Where: GSO Coffee House (SKIBO, lower level)
With increasing numbers of women joining the work force, more and more people (men and women alike) have been faced: with issues concerning balancing a career and a family. The panel of three faculty members and one industry representative (all with children) agreed to share their experiences with juggling a job and family.
Refreshments will be served. 
This GSO supported event is open to the campus community. For more information call Miroslawa at x2680.
parents in Warner Hall lot
Brendan McFeely/Tartan News Editor
Three-year old Erin Kelly climbs onto one of the kiddie rides.

---------------------------------------------------

119(3l (.o6.8 * A.o8lbml plII28 * TW 1somI THHR
J1 the worlds a stage All the worlds a stage All the worlds a stageiptoelo 63la yo26l Jack! u6.ru .6 .teml8Clu
By MICHAEL T. ROSE
Special to The Tartan
Even the opening announcement for Jack!, Scotch N Sodas 
spring musical, helped to set the mood for an evening of darkly 
wonderful theater. The doors of the ballroom, said house manager 
and third-year architect Stephen M. Simon over the loudspeakers, 
will be sealed. Along with the 25-member cast  and one elusive 
killer  the audience was trapped in a city of fear.
Never mind that the doors-shut dictate was the result of noise 
from the. Carnival midway. When combined with the stark multi
level set, which presented a citys decaying streets, and the opening 
choir of murder victims, dead prostitutes dressed in white lingerie 
and working clothes, the total effect brought the audience mem
bers to the edge of their seats.
Jack! is the brainchild of James Lane, an alumnus and CMU 
staffer. Lane first joined SNS as an ensemble member of the cast 
of last years DArtegan: A Requiem, and over the past ten months 
he wrote and composed this new work. Jack! is Lanes first attempt 
at a full-length musical, though the productions smoothness and 
strength would easily conceal that from anyone who skipped his 
authors notes in the program. While Lanes work may need some 
fine tuning and clarification in future revisions, thewith heart of a 
superb show was very evident in this production.
The job of turning Lanes words and music into performances was 
given to freshman directing major KristieAnne Reed. She delivered 
with a bang, as the vocal and emotional highs of the show clearly 
showed. Both Reed and Lane acknowledged their superb working 
relationship in program notes, and that relationship is all-impor
tant for the first outings of a writer and a director in the highpressure workshop environment of an SNS spring show.
The show follows the exploits of a modern-day Jack the Ripper, a 
brutal murderer who attacks prostitutes in the citys red light 
district. While Jack himself remains offstage and frustratingly out 
of reach, the citys residents  including valiant police detectives, 
an unscrupulous reporter, and the terrified, surviving streetwalkers 
and hustlers  find themselves unlikely allies facing a common 
threat.
Each of Jacks crimes is trumpeted in the headlines by Phillip 
McNeil, the reporter, who sees in Jacks exploits his ticket to the 
journalistic big time. His desire for the big story leads him into an 
alliance with Detective Joanna Brogan, the newly promoted head 
of homicide, to lure Jack out of the shadows. The plan goes astray, 
and Jack strikes back  nearly costing Phillip and Joanna their 
lives. In the end, Jack escapes, jeering at Joanna and leaving 
behind only confusion and regret for the survivors.
Phillip, as played with a touch of oily charm by junior math/CE 
major Michael Walker, is a despicable thrill-pusher, a tabloid 
writer with ego where his ethics should be. Although hints through
out the show lead us to believe that Phillip himself is Jack, the 
shows conclusion demonstrates that he too was only a pawn. 
Walker, the current president of S'NS, has been behind the scenes 
(as assistant musical director and musical director) for the last two 
spring productions. His move from the pit to the stage shows that 
he can dance and sing just as well as he plays the piano, which is to 
say with a great deal of talent and energy.
Joanna, played by H&SS sophomore Elizabeth L. Chambers, is 
that relative rarity in the musical theater; a fully rounded female 
character with a job, a romance, and real depth of writing to work 
with. Chambers took on a similar woman in a mans world role as 
the pirate captain Morgan the Red in last years DArtegan t and this 
years performance shows growing maturity in this fine actress. 
Her voice  an appealing alto with an occasional growl to itwas 
well suited to Fighting My Way to the Top, a bouncy number that 
tells Joannas fellow detectives how she got where she wanted to 
get.
Senior English major and S'NS veteran Michael Sutter played 
Tom, Joannas lover and would-be husband. Sutters style, presence 
and impeccable comic timing provided an anchor for Chambers 
performance and a treat for the audience. Sutter, Senior English 
major John Reoli, and H&SS Freshman Jeff Kunins, are also 
credited with contributions to the lyrics and music for Jack!.
H&SS sophomore Megan Dietz and freshman Music major Linh 
Kauffman provided the evenings highlight with As the Red Light 
Dims, a haunting ballad of affection between two terrified 
streetwalkers. Both actresses have extraordinary voices and both 
were employed to great effect.
The other principals include H&SS freshman Ricky Cheng as 
enthusiastic newsboy Billy Reed and sophomore ECE major Jared
Oberhaus as police chief Daniel Harris, gave strong performances. 
Chengs upbeat call of Extra! Another murder! was funny and 
ironic, and Oberhaus swan song Descend into Winter, accompa
nied by the ghostly chorus, was well-sung and moving.
The ensemble was superb, including the ever present Greek choir 
of Jacks victims. With eerie expressions and graceful movements, 
the choir swept around the still-living characters like impotent 
guardian angels. The other city denizens, including street people 
and normal folk, were believable and did an excellent job of 
grounding the intricate plot.
Another standout group in the ensemble was the troika of over
worked city detectives; leader Charlie McKenna (played by alum
nus David Gross) and grumbling sidekicks Vince and Lou (H&SS 
freshman Michael Kunsmann and fifth year senior ECE major Kun 
Shin). Gross, another SiNS veteran, took the subtleties of the 
working relationship between Joanna and Charlie and managed to 
express them with little more than the occasional raised eyebrow or 
tilt of the head.
The complex, bluesy score (neatly interpreted by a full jazz 
ensemble under the able direction of junior ECE major Aaron 
Schultz) was challenging, and the cast rose to the occasion by
Samuel Greenfield/Tartan Assistant Art Editor
The immense set for Jack! can be seen as the 
players perform on stage.
providing full voice on even the trickiest song: 
While there is a chronic conflict between th 
loud music of the Midway and the need for 
quiet in the Ballroom, the performers were 
well amplified and were usually audible, an 
improvement over previous shows. The danc
ing, choreographed by freshman Drama ma
jor Kelleigh Greenberg, was terrific, also show
ing improvement over past years efforts.
Set designer Scott A. Crossfield, a freshman 
Drama major, and technical director Mark 
Donnelly, a 1991 graduate of the English 
department, combined forces to produce the 
remarkable set. By using the existing Ball
room stage as an audience riser, curtaining in 
the stage space and constructing the set at the 
east end of the room, they gained vertical 
room (the set is split into three levels) and a 
sense of closure  the audience is effectively 
courtesy of Scotch N Soda looking down into the playing area, making 
the space more intimate than the usual Ball
room setup. Lighting and costumes were well 
done, and sound designer John Reoli was responsible for the 
complex amplification scheme that had to compensate for the 
aforementioned Midway noise.. All this was coordinated by Stephen 
Simon, an SNS veteran who handled the demanding job of produc-/ 
tion liaison in addition to his house managing duties.
There were a few minor flaws in the production. The performers, 
perhaps unsure of their positions on the set, spent too much time 
talking upstage and facing away from the audience. The show 
includes a lot of undeveloped plot threads that show up as teasing 
innuendo  for example, some of the interplay between the prosti
tutes and Phillip indicates a history of sortsbut little of it actually 
goes anywhere and the audience is left slightly confused.
Despite these rroblems, its clear that Lane intends to revise the 
show for future production elsewhere, and its also clear that if he 
does Jack! might someday be spoken in the same breath with 
Steven Schwartzs Pippin, another SNS original production that 
went on to Broadway fame. The cast of Jack!, all non-drama majors, 
can be proud of their accomplishments in this promising show.
Michael T. Rose (Professional Writing 91) is a former Diversions 
Editor of The Tartan and a former member of Scotch N Soda.
The Scotch N Soda poster for their production Jack!.
Samuel Greenfield/ Tartan Assistant Art Editor
Will the newspapers tell them whodunnit? Members of the cast of Jack! get in on the sensationalism.
Samuel Greenfield/ Tartan Assistant Art Editor
Prostitutes walk the streets of the Red Light District.
