CarnegierCarCn
VOL. 42No. 9CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1948Carnegie Day to be November 23
APO Activities 
Directory Is 
NowCompleted
Copies Are Available 
Free Of Charge In 
Dean Of Mens Office
Constitutional 
Amendments
A general Assembly for the 
purpose of voting on the rati
fication pf the revised Student 
Council constitution will be held 
in the Carnegie Theatre (formerly 
the Little Theatre of Fine Arts) 
on Tuesday, November 30, during 
the Chapel hour, 11:30-12:30.
Stan Siegel 
Elections Chairman.
Ludwig Benner and Harry Sil
verman look over their handiwork, the new APO acttivities 
directory.
? * *
Carnegies 1948-49 Activities 
Directory published by APO is 
now available fre of charge in 
the office of the Dean of Men. 
This directory contains in alpha
betical arrangement the members 
and officers of all fraternities, sor
orities, honoraries, and other or
ganizations.
Alpha Phi Omega, in attempting 
to put the Directory on a selfsupporting basis, levied an assess
ment of one dollar per each fif
teen names printed. Ludi Benner, 
APOs president stated, The sur
plus money collected for the cur
rent Directory will be applied to 
a second semester supplement and 
to the 49-50 Directory. It will be 
used for no other purpose.
APO intends to make the Di
rectory one of its permanent pro
jects because of the practical utili
ty of the booklet. Any comments 
or suggestions will be welcomed. 
Prompt action on the bills they 
have sent out will be appreciat
ed. Remittances should be sent 
to APO, c/o box 282.
Cwens, APO 
Offer To Help 
ProduceC-Book
Cwens and Alphi Phi Omega 
have offered their services in re
sponse to last weeks petition by 
Stanley R. March, director of the 
department of public relations, for 
volunteer student workers on the 
C-Book.
President Robert Doherty sought 
an answer from Mr. March after 
a meeting with the Student Con
ference committee at which an 
inquiry as to the delay in pro
duction of the C-Book was made. 
Lack of student help account
ed for the slow progress, Mr. 
March replied. The only solution, 
President Doherty felt, was to 
hire temporary help. This would 
necessitate an increase in the 
price of this years directory; as 
it stands now, the minimum price 
will be forty cents. But with the 
aid of Cwens and APO, it is hop
ed that the cost will be kept at 
that level.
President Speaks On 
New Developments
egitge Band, ROrC, Cnd Students 
ro Parade ro Carnegge Musgc Haii
Official Notice
Carnegie Day exercises will be held Tuesday morning, 
November 23 in Carnegie Music hall at 11 oclock. Regular 
classes will be dismissed from 10:20 to 1:30.
All scholarship holders and those students ranking in the 
upper ten percent scholastically are requested to assemble 
promptly at 10:30 on Tuesday morning, November 23, In 
the basement corridor of Industries hall. Marshals will di
rect the group to its position in the line of march and to 
the proper seats on arriving at the Music hall. If it rains, 
the march will be omitted; in this case assemble in the east 
end of the foyer at the Music hall at a sign marked Scholar
ship Holders.
Those who arc members of the Kiltie band or ROTC 
should march with your organizations and should sit with 
your group. Members of the student orchestra should re
main with that group. When President Doherty asks hold
ers of scholarships and those ranking in the highest ten 
percent scholastically to rise, you will please do so.
If further information is desired in regard to arrange
ments, please call Dr. H. K. KirkPatrick, Chairman of the 
committee on public occasions.
Prof. KirkPatrick Indispensable 
To Carnegie Day Ceremonies
After 21 Years, CITs Faculty Marshall Still
Finds Preparations For Ceremony Trying
When the skirl of bagpipes floats through the open doors of Car
negie Music hall for the Carnegie Day ceremonies, the climax of 
two months of careful preparations will be reached for Professor 
Henry K. KirkPatrick, Faculty Marshal and producer of the biggest 
annual all-school assembly.
Having done the complex job 
of organizing Carnegie Days, com
mencements, and convocations for 
21 years now, Professor Kirk
Patrick has found that the task 
becomes the trying one of train
ing an entirely new cast for each 
performance.
Men In Charge of Details 
Aside from making sure that 
scores of students and administra
tion members get to the right 
place at the right time, and that 
they are dressed in the right manChanges Will Brighten 
Plaid Football Picture
While the wild protest rally held 
by the students two weeks ago 
still goes begging for tangible re
sults, the meeting of the Student 
Conference committee with Dr. 
Doherty on October 27, has al
ready produced several important 
changes which should help to 
brighten the Carnegie football 
picture in the future.
The first matter taken up by 
President Doherty upon the sug
gestion of the SCC was the ex
tension of daily practice. By mak
ing arrangements for Skibo to stay 
open an extra half hour, the play
ers will now have nearly two 
hours of daily practice.The liobtintf vcteni jn the bowl
is also undergoing improvements. 
The old lights are being repaired, 
and new ones are being installed 
so that after dark practice can be 
held under the best possible condi
tions.
All instructors have been noti
fied that football players should be 
given every chance to make-up 
work that they miss while partic
ipating in intercollegiate competi
tion. Slips are given to players 
that are eligible for competition to 
fill out. These are filed with the 
instructors with the official no
tice from the Intercollegiate office 
that the student is participating 
in an event which is authorized 
by the school,
Celebration of CITs annual Carnegie Day, a traditional preThanksgiving observance, will be held November 23. Ceremonies 
will begin at 11:00 a. m. in the Carnegie Music hall.
__.Arrangements have been completed for students in the upper
ten percent scholastically, scholarship holders, and members of the 
Kiltie band and ROTC to lead a march to the Music Hall.
After students have assembled, bagpipers from the Kiltie band 
will lead the flag bearers in the official presentation of the Colors, 
which will be followed by the singing of the National Anthem.
?Reverend L. B. Moseley of the 
First Baptist church will offer the 
invocation.
Speakers for the program will 
include President Doherty, who 
will preside over the ceremonies, 
and Mr. Eugene Dowling, presi
dent of the Alumni federation. Dr. 
Doherty will speak on the subject: 
New Developments at Carnegie 
Tech.
Among the honorary organiza
tions which will make their call 
are Tau Beta Pi, Phi Kappa Phi, 
Mortar Board, Pi Mu Epsilon, and 
Scabbard and Blade. President 
Doherty will present the frater
nity and sorority scholarship cups.
Other awards to be conferred 
include the Mortar Board award 
to last years freshman girl who 
maintained the highest scholastic 
average, and the Faville-Ellerton 
prize given to the student compos
ing the best essay on a project in 
his home community.
Interludes of music will be pro
vided by the student orchestra 
under the direction of Dr. Fred
erick Dorian. Both the proces
sional and recessional will be 
played on the Music hall organ.
ner, Professor Kirk-Patrick finds 
that his job is primarily one of 
taking care of a seemingly undiminishing mass of details. To 
solve this problem, he has a tre
mendous check-list which he uses 
to make sure that nothing is over
looked.
One safeguard was instituted 
several years ago when a young 
man arose to read his organiza
tions call and found that the list 
he had memorized blanked out of 
his mind. Since that time written 
call lists have been required.
One of the encouraging things 
about Carnegie Day, says Kirk
Patrick, is the fact that more and 
more of the honoraries are keep
ing their calls secret until they are 
announced from the stage of the 
Music hall. In this way, the sus
pense of the occasion is greatly 
enhanced.
School Purposes To Be Explained
The practice inaugurated by 
President Doherty last year; in his 
address, explaining to the stu
dents what the school is doing, 
and why, promises to create much 
more interest in the Carnegie Day 
ceremonies.
At the same time, one of the 
primary purposes of Carnegie Day 
is to recognize and honor students 
who are outstanding in scholar
ship, and most of the awards and 
calls are concerned first of all with 
scholarship.
Although Carnegie Day brings [Continued on page 3]
CIT Leads Unit 
In Chest Drive
Carnegie Tech is leading the 
college and universities unit of 
the Community Chest school 
division in the collection of 
funds for the present campagn.
Headed by Stanley R. March, 
Director of public relations for 
Carnegie Tech, the college and 
university group is leading all 
other groups in the schools 
division. CIT has contributed 
74 per cent of this units collections.
The drive at Carnegie Tech 
will end November 16. All who 
have not contributed should 
send their donations to the Con
troller's office.
ODK, Activities 
Honorary, Calls 
Seven Seniors
Trustee Walter Blenko 
And Dr. Miner Also 
Called To Membership
Seven senior men, five from en
gineering and two from the arts 
school, have been called by Omieron Delta Kappa, senior mens 
activities and leadership honor
ary.
Dr. Douglas F. Miner, director of 
student personnel and welfare, 
and Mr. Walter J. Blenko, chair
man of the executive committee 
of the Board of Trustees have also 
been elected to membership in the 
honorary.
The seven undergraduates call
ed, and their activities, are:
Willis Boothe, mechanical en
gineer, Tau Beta Pi, Theta Tau, 
Spring Carnival committee, YCabinet, Scottie, other activities 
transferred from Pitt.
George Corrin, dramat; Scotch 
and Soda, chairman of Arts Night 
committee, 1948 Apell Award co
winner.
John Fockler, management en
gineer; president of Claymore 
Clan, Student Council, business 
manager of Dorm Bagpiper, 
IAC.
Tom Hall, chemist; WCIT busi
ness manager, Technical circula
tion manager, Spring Carnival 
sweepstakes chairman, Student 
Council, Tau Beta Pi, Delta Tau 
Delta, Theta Tau.
Robert Paustian, management 
engineer; Theta Tau vice-regent, 
Inter-Fraternity council secre
tary, Delta Upsilon president, 
Tau Beta Pi.
Bennard Perlman, painting and 
design; Beaux Arts, Student 
Council, Spring Carnival decora
tions chairman, Tartan chief re
porter, Glee club, Delta Skull, 
Beta Sigma Rho.
Joe Vogan, management engi
neer; Y-Cabinet president, foot
ball head manager, Kappa Sigma 
treasurer, Tau Beta Pi, Glee club.
These seven men will join the 
present six undergraduate mem
bers to form the 1948-49 Beta 
Dlta Circle of the national activi
ties honorary. Their initiation will 
take place shortly after the first 
of December.
At the same time Dr. Miner and 
Mr. Blenko will also be initiated 
and Mr. Blenko is expected to be 
the main speaker at the initiation 
banquet which will follow.
egitge Band Goes 
ro Bethiehem 
For Lehggh Game
Making their longest trip of the 
season, members of the Kiltie 
Band will travel to Bethlehem, 
Pa., on Friday night, Nov. 12, for 
the football game with Lehigh. 
Two chartered buses and several 
cars are making the all-night trip 
to the Lehigh game.
Since they will be the largest 
part of the Carnegie cheering sec
tion at Saturdays game, the 
bandsmen have been drilled on 
the Carnegie cheers as well as 
their formations and music this 
week. All 75 musicians will be 
housed at the Hotel Bethlehem 
Saturday night, and will return* to Pittsburgh on Sunday.

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1948Carnegge rartan How Long Until He Sees It?
OFFICES: Carnegge Ungon, 5075 Forbes St., Pgttsburgh, Pa. TELEPHONE: SC. 4557; after hours MU. 5365, SC. 895a. Published weekly durgng the schooi year, except hoigdays 
and examgnatgon pergods, by the students of Carnegge In
stitute of rechnoiogy, Pgttsburgh, Pa.
Editor-in-Chief 
Business Manager . Associate Editor ... Personnel Manager
Robert W. Johnson
......... Samuei Moses. Burton L. Epstegn 
... JaJ? H. Johnson
News EdgtorRobert eubgak, Features EdgtorGeraid E. Peck, Chgef Copy Edgtorrhomas P. Murray, Sports Edgtor Paui Offerman, Makeup EdgtorRaiph Pagnter, Crt Dgrec
torRusseii F. euiberg, Cdvertgsgng ManagerCrthur G. Zuch, Cgrcuiatgon ManagerLewgs S. Sternberg.Copy EdgtorPat Petrgck, Headigne EdgtorMyra-Jane Bar
ry, Proof EdgtorJohn Braun, Personnei Csst.Rgchard B. Mgtcheii, Csst. Busgness ManagerHerbert Stone, Csst. Cdvertising ManagerMaicoim B. Samakow, Chgef Reporters John e. Fockier, Wgiigam Johns, Bennard Periman, Cathergne Rudy, Ruby Wegsberg, Chgef Sports ReporterBgii 
Dom, Chgef PhotographerWgiigam D. Benswanger.Copy StaffMary Cauffgeid, Cnaiee Geiman, Dganne Stgtt. Features StaffC. Starke Drgscheii, Rgchard Drgsko, Gene 
Fegst, Jack Johnson, Frank Roth, Edward VonHaiie. 
Senior ReporterBurt egmmei.ReportersJo Crgsantg, Frances Hamborsky, Cngeia Poiigs, 
Cub ReportersSaiiy Bachman, Judy Biock. Cian Biotcky, Hgida Chottgner, Jane Conner, Joyce Erteii, Dorothy earns, Henry eiugh, Edward eoos, Shgriey Levgn, Wgiigam Lyeii, 
Sue MacFadden, Bee Potter, Jane Robb. nancy Sgtier, Mgchaei Stavgsh, Cngta rabeiigng, Joann Wgiigams, nancy 
Wgii.Sports StaffRobert Dougherty, Charies egng, Warren 
Lithgow, Fredergck Lunt.Photography StaffRgchard Degngnger.Business StaffMorty Baker, Edmund Denburg, Shgriee 
Goidenfeid, Dave Stegner, Bob Powers, Mgtch Bakon. 
Makeup StaffCa Bader.TypistsEigzabeth Csche, Wgima Dgckson, Rodda Dean.
Represented for natgonai advertgsgng by nCrIOnCL CDVERrISInG, Inc., Coiiege Pubigshers Representatgve, 420 
Madgson Cve., new York Cgty. Subscrgptgon SI. a0 per year.
Entered as second ciass matter on Oct. 4, a907 at the Post Offgce at Pgttsburgh, Pa., under the Cct of March 3, 1879. Cccepted for magigng at specgai rate of postage pro
vgded for gn the Cct of February 28, a925. Cuthorgzed Octo
ber 2a, a9a8. __________________________________
EditorialWhere Theres A Will
There is extant upon this campus the peren
nial gripe that Student Council isnt doing all 
that it should to further the students best inter
ests. It is declared that the school gives Council 
no real authority, that the members are not 
truly respresentative, and that they dont realize 
what kind of a job they can reasonably be expect
ed to do while they serve on Council.
We would be happier if less time were spent 
repeating these platitudes and more time were 
devoted to solving the problems they infer.
First of all, Council might well examine its 
present operations to make sure they are in good 
order. Is not Council now simply too large? 
Would it not be much more effective and effi
cient if it were smaller? Do not many members 
merely go along for the ride?
A Fundamental Consideration
Granted that membership is an honor and 
confers certain prestige upon both individuals 
and whatever organizations they may represent, 
the primary purpose of the organization is to 
advance general student welfare, and such a 
reward function should not be served through 
Council membership.
Some immediate specific suggestions to Coun
cil may be considered requisite to a study of a 
problem such as this. Specifically then, Council 
should exert a more direct control over (or shall 
we say, conduct pre-investigations in) the ac
tivities for which it is financially responsible.
Council should be able to obtain, through its 
own influence, the services of capable students 
to advise groups sponsoring, for instances, dances, 
so that well-reasoned policies may be followed. 
Since Councils funds are involved, Council should 
be interested in what is happening to them.
Again specifically, Councils action apropos 
the recent football situation was misdirected and 
too late. First of all, the committee selected for 
the job consisted of seven men. Merely gathering 
that number of men in the same room at the 
same time is a difficult problem, much less hav
ing them conduct a productive investigation. Fur
thermore, before beginning an investigation, 
Council should clearly understand what type 
of action it anticipates taking upon the report 
of such a committee.
A Better Way
How much better would it have been had Stu
dent Council taken upon itself the responsibility 
to seek out and report upon those areas in which 
student dissatisfaction with administration per
formance or policy deemed advisable a report 
to the authorities involved, so that either a cor
rection of the improper condition might be made 
or an explanation presented. It is hardly neces
sary to point out that such a system would have 
removed the need for such demonstrations as we 
have recently seen.
Specifically we suggest that Student Council 
consciously attempt to become a dynamic group, 
realizing that the absence of progress is proof 
of retrogression. This latter factor is probably 
the greatest fault of Student Council and the 
one most overlooked. - .
To remedy this fault, a permanent committee 
on plans, programs, and fields of expansion of 
Council could have the function not only to bring 
up such specific proposal ae tfte foregoing, but
OTChat
By Jack Johnson
Now that the smoke has cleared a little from 
the recent athletic explosion, it becomes in
creasingly clear that the blame for Carnegie Tech 
doldrums must be spread thinly on many should
ers rather than on one or two. For example, sev
eral daily newspaper analyses of the situation 
have pointed out the effect of the alumni atti
tude on the football picture.
A type of vicious circle has come into play 
which could easily accelerate the downward spiral 
if not stopped. Prevalent among the alumni is 
the falacious reasoning that it is foolish to con
tribute financially or otherwise to the support of 
Class C football. Yet the lack of alumni support 
has contributed largely to our present famine.
In the interset of uncovering some of the reas
ons for alumni apathy, we spoke to John L. 
Elliott, executive secretary of the Alumni Federa
tion and Clarence (Buddy) Overend, athletic di
rector,
Elliott has found that, By comparison with 
other colleges, money contributions from our 
alumni are not high. There are innumerable reas
ons for this, but one of the most conspicuous is 
the lack of class organization, beginning in the 
undergraduate years. Class officers could do much 
to knit a graduating class together. These officers 
could also serve as liaison people after gradua
tion, whereas we now have a large, relatively un
wieldy group.
Elliott explained other factors, aside from 
loose organization, which are responsible for 
poor contributions. Nothwithstanding the pres
ent high tuition, he went on, CIT has been, 
for the most part, a poor mans school. Thus, 
the majority of our 15,500 alumni come from 
families which are not wealthy. Furthermore, 
few of our alumni are now wealthy in their own 
right.
The alumni secretary has found that mone
tary contributions are not the only sore point 
in the schools relations with its alumni. The 
type of activity which is exemplified by con
vincing players that Carnegie should be their 
school has fallen off considerably.
Overends comments substantiated Elliotts 
findings.
It isnt difficult to get contributions for a win
ning team, he said. After we beat Notre Dame 
the first time, it was just a matter of seeing a 
few alumni clans and letting the checks roll 
in. ' [Continued in next column]
Overend found that when the 
new policy was set up and the 
Steffen Fund organized, contri
butions fell off sharply. He feels 
that this may be partially due to 
a misunderstanding of the foot
ball policy or of the function of 
the Steffen Fund.
One of the more serious rami
fications of this trend, he ex
pained, is that some of our 
alumni whose sons are good foot
ball players actually encourage 
them to attend other schools in
stead of pointing out the educa
tional advantages to be gained at 
CIT.
These comments seem to add up 
to a need for more alumni help. 
May we suggest that Mr. Elliott 
and Mr. Overend need a good deal 
of assistance in prodding our 
alumni into providing some real 
help. A few young men on the 
staff who would be willing to do 
some leg work and a selling job 
could do much to improve things.
Letter to the Editor
Constitution Proposals Hit
I wish to commend Mr. Arbon 
Lang, non-Council IAC member, 
for his earnest and conscientious 
effort to change the election bal
loting system and thus facilitate 
the election to Council of FAC 
candidates. <
This effort, conducted ostensibly 
with the objective of obtaining a 
more representative election pro
cedure, contains in its statement 
several important points which 
may indicate the real motives be
hind this move.
Mr. Langs Recommendations 
for Election By-Law changes 
would remove APO as the organ
ization directly responsible to Stu
dent Council Elections Chairman 
for conducting elections.
Mr. Lang proposes in the stead 
of APO that the Chairman of 
Elections appoints competent 
personnel for the counting of 
ballots.
He recommends further that any 
group having a candidate in the 
election may have a clerk at each 
polling place. Each fraternity and 
each independent group could 
then claim a clerk. Since thirteen 
to fifteen clerks could obviously 
not be used simultaneously, a 
small group of partisan clerks 
would at any time conduct the 
polling stations.
This move to un-seat APO and 
institute partisan election person
nel could only mean diffiusion of 
responsibility and lack of control 
in election procedures. Further
more, a partisan Elections Chair
man, with the help of discreetly 
selected personnel, could then 
quite conceivably distort election 
results.
APO, CITs service organization, 
is one group on campus against 
which accusations of bias and par
tisanship cannot be sincerely lev
eled. Moreover, APO has demon
strated its competence and in
tegrity in elections conduct.
APO does not deserve the slap 
in the face, intentional or other
wise, that it has received from 
FAC.
It would appear that the mo
tives of FAC are not the further
ing of professed democratic ideals 
but rather openly point towards 
grabbing the balance of power 
in Student Council.
STAN SIEGEL, Mgmt Sr.
also to explore entirely new fields, particularly 
those that bear upon some of the fundamental, 
perertnial, unsolvable student problems that 
seem to have plagued ever ycollege that has ex
isted in modern times.
It would be comforting if Student Council 
occasionally suggested that it was aware of the 
problems existence. We would be even happier 
if it went a few steps further and actually tried 
to attack the problems, even though the incen
tgve of fgndgng someone to biame may be iackgng
Start preparing today
with theCOLLEGE OUTLINE SERIES
____ACCOUNTING, Elementary____ALGEBRA, College
..ANCIENT HISTORY___________
____ANC., MED., and MOD. HIST..
____ANTHROPOLOGY, Outline of._
...BACTERIOLOGY, Prln. of______
____BIOLOGY, General_____________
____BOTANY, General_____________
----BUSINESS LAW_________________
.__CALCULUS, The_________________.__CHEMISTRY, First Year Col____ __CHEMISTRY, Maths. for Gen._
 CHEMISTRY, Organic_________
 CORPORATION FINANCE ___
_DOCUMENTED PAPERS, Wrif._ 
..ECONOMICS, Principles of 1 EDUCATION, History of____________
 ENGLAND, History of_____________
 EUROPE, 1500-1843, Hist, of___
 EUROPE, 1815-1947, History of__ 1
. EXAMS., How to Write Better. __________FORESTRY, Gen., Outline of 1
 FRENCH GRAMMAR .......................... 1 __________GEOLOGY, Principles of..._____________1
 GEOMETRY, Plane, Probs. in. 1
 GERMAN GRAMMAR _____________ }
 GOVERNMENT, American ___
____GRAMMAR, ENG. Prin. & Prac. of 1
___HYDRAULICS for Firemen................ a
 JOURNALISM, Survey of..................1
____LATIN AMERICA, History of______1
____LATIN AMERICA in Maps________ 1
 LAT. AMER. Civiliz., Rdgs. in____J
1AT. AMER. Economic Dev......  a
.00
.00.75.25.25.25.75.75.50.25.25.75.50
.00.75.25.75
.75.75
.00.25.25
.00
.00
.00
.00.75.25
.00.25.50.25.50
.25
-LITERATURE, American.LITERATURE, English, Diet. of..LIT., English, Hist, to Dryden___ 1.25
$1.50 1.25
LIT., Eng,, Hist, tine* Miltoi---LITERATURE, German ___________----LOGARITHMIC & Trig. Table____----MID. AGES, 300-1500, Hist, of____MUSIC, History of_
1.251.50 .60 .75
1.00 1.001.25 .75 .751.251.251.50 .751.001.50-SHAKESPEAREAN Names, Diet___1.00-SHAKESPEARE'S Ploys, Out. of_ 1.00
___PHILOSOPHY: An Intro_______PHILOSOPHY, Readings in.----PHYSICS, First Ye<v College___POLITICAL SCIENCE ______POLITICS, Diet, of American----PORTUGUESE GRAMMAR___PRONUNCIATION, Guide----PSYCHOLOGY, Educational----PSYCHOLOGY, General ___-RUSSIA, History of_
 SLIDE RULE, Practical use of-___SOCIOLOGY, Principles of.___SPANISH GRAMMAR _________STATISTICAL METHODS ___STUDY, Best Methods ofTRIG., Plan* & Spherical-TUDOR & STUART Play*. Out,
_U. S. in Second World War
_U. S. to 1865, History of____
U. S., since 1865, History of.
_WORLD, Sine* 1*14, History of_ 1.00 
..ZOOLOGY, General______________1.00
.751.25 
1.001.25 .601.25 
1,50
.75
.75
.75
PRICES SUBJECT TO CHANGE
These Are All Available At TheSTUDENT BOOK EXCHANGE
3811 Fifth Avenue
OPEN 8:30 TO 6

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1948THE CABNEGIE TABTAN8
Drama Department Presents 
4Midsummer Nights Dream
Second Play Of The Year Opens Tomorrow 
Evening; Hard Work Goes Into Settings
Last months audiences at the Carnegie Theatre probably were not 
aware of the fact, but right behind the Linden Tree set was the 
main set for the forthcoming production of A Midsummer Nights 
Dream. In fact, during the afternoons, Mr. Boettcher was hard at 
work rehearsing the casts on that# 
very set.
The set, constructed on an elab
orate system of dollies, represent
ing many Saturdays of workin
cluding Homecomingon the part 
of the freshman crew, is to roll 
out onto the stage where The 
Linden Tree stood. It is the sin
cere hope of the sets designer,
Albert Heshong, that once the 
tremendous set is started rolling, 
the boys back stage will be able 
to bring it to a safe and peace
ful halt.
The entire student staff (piloted 
by Ed Gifford, assistant director, 
ager) is working at a high pitch 
in order to create the special and 
intricate effects required by the 
Bards script.
The design staff, composed of 
Louis Knaak, A1 Lehman, and 
Arleen DuMond (under the fac
ulty supervision of Mrs. Kimber
ley) is fashioning the costumes in 
a fantasy pattern. The fairies, 
which form an integral part of the 
plot, will be stylized puppets 
which are being designed and
constructed by Paul Trautvetter 
and Bill Ryan. Bill Nelson, a re
cent addition to the drama faculty 
as lighting instructor, has charge 
of that phase of the production.
If the entire school were to go 
through the department and see 
the amount and intensity of work 
being done for this production, 
then opening night, November 11, 
would find high brows and low 
brows alike enjoying a truly fine 
evening of Theatre.
Catherine Murphy Is 
ROTC Honorary Colonel
Catherine Murphy, junior in 
Margaret Morrison, was named 
honorary colonel at Scabbard and 
Blades Military Ball.
Another highlight of the cere
monies held during intermission 
was the designation by Colonel 
Harold A. Kurstedt of Jay Atman, 
William Booth, Harold Davis, Bar
ry Dietrich, Patrick McCurdy and 
Bruce Schmid as Distinguished 
Military Students.
3 Hour Dry Cleaning
Raincoats Showerproofed
Quick Laundry Service
CAMPUS CLEANERS
4609 Forbes St. MUseum 1288
Council Still Bickers 
Over New Constitution
new By-Laws Ggve CPO Power
ro Run Cii-Schooi Eiectgons
After accomplishing relatively little, Student Council adjourned 
last week without discussing the important and controversial subject 
of balloting. Approval of the first eleven sections of Article I of 
Councils new constitution was marked by frequent bickering over
?wording and technicalities.
The approval of the Semantics
. Kiltie Uniforms
Help is needed to sew and 
knit Kiltie Band uniforms. Mrs. 
Doherty, who heads the project, 
hopes to be finished with the 
job within two weeks. Those 
able to give of their time are 
requested to call her at Sc. 
5047.
IF Discusses 
Change In 
Key System
Pending changes in the IF con
stitution were the major topics of 
discussion at the meeting Monday 
afternoon, Nov. 1. Perhaps the 
most important change will come 
over the key situation. At the 
present time, members of IF re
ceive a key for their service. This 
award may be discontinued if the 
discussion on Monday was an in
dication of future policy.
The council also voted to buy a 
new scholarship cup. The last cup 
was awarded permanently to Beta 
Sigma Rho whose scholarship 
ranked first for three successive 
years. Temporary officers for the 
Junior IF were chosen on Mon
day. These will be replaced next 
Monday by permanent officers. 
No concrete plans were made by 
the group; but in general, they 
plan to follow the same program 
set up by last years junior IF.
FRAZER PROCESS
club constitution and several so
cial programs was the only other 
business accomplished.
Election Procedure Discussed
Major discussion over the new 
by-laws concerned the vesting of 
power to run all school elections. 
As stated in the new by-laws, this 
power is given to APO, campus 
service fraternity, and relegates 
Council elections chairman to a 
position of liason officer between 
APO and Council.
Richard Cutkosky of APO ex
plained, If anything goes wrong 
during the election, we are going 
to be blamed. Thererore, we 
should have the power to run the 
elections ourselves.
Arbon Lang, chief proponent of 
the Hare system of tabulating bal
lots, disagreed. Said Lang, Last 
year when APO ran the mechanics 
of the election, there were mis
takes, but it was the fault of the 
elections chairman and that is 
where the blame should rest.
Siegel Agrees
Stan Siegel, present elections 
chairman, agreed fully with Mr. 
Lang. This section was finally ap
proved with the elections chair
man in full charge, having the 
power to appoint APO to do the 
work connected with the election 
itself.
Changes concerning voting 
hours, placement of notices prior 
to election, and the wording of 
the article occupied the remainder 
of the time.
Expectation of discussions con
cerning the Hare system of voting 
brought many non-Council mem
bers to the meeting.
Sn S Chooses 
Molecule Man
Putch And Riebling 
Write Winning Show
With the selection of the prizewinning book, Molecule Man, 
Scotch and Soda club is bubbling 
with activity. Authors Bill Putch 
and Dick Riebling are revising, 
their creation, while Gene Mul
ligan, who makes up the third 
member of this trio of collabora
tors is completing the score by 
adding new lyrics.
According to President Jim McGiffin, The show has local color 
with considerable college spirit, 
and the Scotch and Soda board 
is certain the show will be accept
ed with great enthusiasm.
Authors Putch and Reibling are 
seniors in the drama department, 
while Mulligan is a drama soph
omore.
An outline of Molecule Man, 
including a few of the songs and 
skits, will be presented before the 
entire Scotch and Soda club at 
a party on November 21. The work 
of casting, assembling choruses, 
and staging will begin about the 
first of December.
KirkPatrick
[Continued from page 1] 
many responsibilities, Kirk-Patrick finds himself encouraged to 
continue by the steady increase 
in interest and attendance since 
the war. Especially this year, fol
lowing the recent policy discus
sions, he feels that Dr. Dohertys 
address on New Developments at 
CIT will be of special interest 
to the student body.
Sensational New 
CURL CUT
Exclusively given by 
VINCENT CHARLETTComplete with Shampoo and Set$2.50 wgth ag
This special offer is given with 
free consultation to the ladies 
of Carnegie Tech.VETARO BEAUTY SALON
417 Empire BuildingGRant 0361
SPECICLIZED HCIR REMOVInG BY 
LICEnSED ELECrROLOGISr
5737 Darlington Road 
JAckson 5775
EXPERT REPAIRS
RADIOS, PHONOGRAPHS, APPLIANCES
Sales and Service
LEWIS RADIO
Pause That Refreshes 
Is Part of the Party
ELECTRIC CO.
aa23 OCeLCnD CVE. MC. 11
Bring Your Radio Problemi 
To Us
22 TEARS EXPERIENCE 
At Your Service
RODGER'S
DAIRY
Try Our
HCMBURGERS
Made with 100% Pure Beef 
U. S. Government Inspected
LARGE MILK SHAKES
Made With 
PURE WHOLE MILK 

RODGER'S
DAIRY STORES
3905 FORBES STREET Near Bouquet
4619 CENTER AVENUE Near Craig
for it either way... both 
trade-marks mean the same thing.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY 5Y 
COCC-COLC BOrrLInG CO. OF PC., PIrrSBURGH, PC.
 a948, rhe Coca-Colo Company
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil
.0V0ET god moos for people with problem hair. Even A 
cow lick stays in place all day long with Wildroot Cream-Oil 
hair tonic. Whats more, by using it regularly every morning 
it will relieve annoying dryness and remove loose dandruff* 
Non-alcoholic Wildroot Cream-Oil contains Lanolin. Helps 
you pass the famous Wildroot Finger-Nail Test. Get a bottle 
or tube at any drug or toilet goods counter today. And ask 
your barber for professional applications. Remember there 
only one Wildrdot Cream-Oilso dont 
buy any udder!
)jc of 327 Burroughs Drive, Snyder, N. Y.
Wildroot Company, Inc., Buffalo 11, N. Y.

---------------------------------------------------

TBS OARNSOZB TARTANWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1041
III Carnegie Gridders Bow To Oberlin
'Paul Offermanns"Sportscope
Why Cant We Make 
The Steffen Fund 
Mean Something?
On March 31, 1939 the Steffen Memorial Scholarship fund 
was established to perpetuate the name of Carnegies late 
football coach and to provide athletic scholarships to deserv
ing high school graduates. The fund was to be supported by 
almni who were interested in seeing Carnegie represented by 
as strong a football team as possible under President Dohertys 
policy.
In the last few years it became evident to most alumni 
that there was some drawback to program policies of the 
Steffen fund since it was not obtaining: the desired results.
The last two years, especially, have been good examples of 
some of the weaknesses of the fund.
Number one among these weak points is the stipulation 
that no athlete shall receive financial assistance in excess of 
that offered by other educational scholarships at Carnegie. In 
other words, if a wealthy alumnus was willing to place a siz
able sum in the Steffen fund and then went out and located 
20 or 25 good football players who were excellent students in
terested in obtaining a good engineering education, these play
ers could not be awarded board, room, and tuition for their 
efforts on the football field.
Drawback number two is that all awards are made to 
candidates on the basis of financial need, not on a uniform 
basis. Therefore, if a player could get by without tuition or 
any other help, he will have to be content to play for fun 
and the glory of Carnegie. If a player is extremely needy 
he would still only receive tuition. And the needy player who 
is entitled to tuition is not going to be able to come to Car
negie at all because of the lack of assistance on board and 
room expenses.
Our suggestions : Drop both of these conditional limi
tations of the Steffen fund. If the alumni are willing to provide 
the necessary funds to encourage outstanding athletes and 
students to come to Carnegie, how is it going to alter our high 
educational concepts if we permit football players to receive 
finania^id for room and board from alumni for their work 
on th gridiron? The only thing that we can possibly visualize 
it affecting is our long losing streak!
ili-  -
- -

LI-"a *JLJ
O'
Medical Arts Garage
775 Atwood Street
COMPLETE SERVICE FOR YOUR CAR
Let us prepare your car for 
winter. We have the most com
plete facilities for all kinds of 
repairs! Expert merchanics. 
Immediate service. Low rates.
We call for and deliver!
24 HOUR SERVICE
Washing and Lubrication
SCheniey 6400
Now Under New Management
Jack Magnifico, Tartan quarter
back, 37, returns an Oberlin kickoff in Saturdays game.
Oberlin 
Summary
CCRnEGIE rECH
Ends  Fougere, Wgison, Donato, 
Dougherty.
rackies  eeats, Meyers, Hoffman, 
rrautman.
GuardsWgseman, Stovgcek, Madden, 
norton.
CentersWgndgsh, eamaras.
BacksMagngfgco, Sgmcgc, Gregorek, 
Hoitz, Mgnngch, Sommer, Crmour, Ob
erg, Haney, eenney, Luchok.
OBERLIn
EndsBurns, Wrgght, Cddgson, Harrgson, Johnston, Lancashgre.
rackiesLePontogs, Loveiand, Young, Fgsher.
GuardsEbei, Paimer, Utiey, Fietcher, Grgiis, Stafford, Schaich, Smyri, Den- ngnger.
CentersPoister, Mack.
Backs  McPhee, Parks, Johnson, Weaver, OConnor, Crgspgn, Brecken- rgdge.Veazy, Dettman, Mattuccg, Hauser, 
nottgngham.
Score by quarters:
Oberign ................ a3 6 0 726
Carnegie ................ 0 0 13 013
Oberign scorgngrouchdowns: Park 2,
Johnson 2. Pognts after touchdown. Cd
dgson 2 (piacements)._______________
Carnegge scorgngrouchdowns: Stovg
cek, Sgmcgc. Pognt after touchdown: een
ney (piacement),
ADVERTISING SALESMAN WANTED
If you are looking for a part time job, here ia a real opportunity to make money. High commission, lucrative field. Write to HOLTON AD
VERTISING SPECIALTIES, 271 North Avenue, New Rochelle, N. Y. for 
complete data.
Tartans Stricken 
By Food Poisoning
Game Piagd ream Refuses Offer
ro Shorten Contest, Stages Raiiy
OBERLIN, O., Nov. 6.A sick but spirited Carnegie Tech eleven 
that just doesnt know what the word quit means, bowed to 
Oberlin college here today by a 26-13 score.
The Tartans left Pittsburgh Friday afternoon in a good mood, 
-------------------------------------------------------?hoping that the bad breaks which
r H E
C L O C e
Good Meals Anytime
Try IJs Soon 
Morn, Night, or Noon
The Clock
3814 Forbes St.
Alberts Stars In 
Cross Country 
Team's First Win
With Ivor Davies returning to 
form, Carnegie Techs cross coun
try team finally broke into the 
win column with their initial vic
tory of the season over a favored 
Westminster squad, 19-26, at 
Schenley Park on Saturday, Navember 6.
Once again reliable Jack Al
berts, Coach Guy Halfertys fresh
man sensation, and captain Gene 
Cockrell paced the field with 
times of 25:57 and 26:29 respec
tively. It was, however, the veter
an Davies, hampered by illness all 
year, who made the victory pos
sible by racing across the finish 
in fourth position just behind the 
visitors Bogdon. McElhaney and 
Cooper rounded out the Plaids 
scoring in the fifth and seventh 
spots.
The Tartan harriers will close 
out the 1948 campaign at Lehigh 
on Saturday, November 13.
FOUnrCIn 
PEnS
PARKER . . . SHEAFFER 
WATERMAN . . . 
ESTERBROOK 
NORMA FOUR-COLOR 
PENCILS 
?
Sgnger Pen 
and Ggft Shop
JENKINS ARCADE
had been cast in their direction 
throughout the season would fin
ally come to an end and they 
would be able to end their long 
losing streak at the expense oi 
Oberlin. \
It was less than 12 hours after 
this that all but two of the Car
negie gridders were taken ill by 
food poisoning at the Portage ho
tel in Akron, Ohio. By the time 
that game time approached the 
players were all in a greatly 
weakened condition.
The game was only a few min
utes old when Jesse Parks took 
a lateral pass from Kevney O
Connor, the Yeomens clever Tquarterback, and sprinted around 
his own right end &>r a li5-yard 
touchdown play. Bcto Addisons 
attempted kick for the extra point 
was blocked by Floyd Wiseman.
Near the end of the first quar
ter Oberlin scored again after 
blocking Arne Obergs punt on 
Carnegies 47 yard line. This time 
Dick Johnson took the ball over 
tackle for the TD.
The Yeomen made it 20-0 be
fore the end of the half with 
Johnson again scoring, this time 
on a 40-yard run.
As the Tartans left the field at 
half time they were in such a 
weakened condition that athletic 
director Buddy Overend headed 
for the dressing room with the 
idea of shortening the final two 
periods. The Carnegie players 
unanimously rejected the idea, 
shouting that they wanted as much 
time as possible to score touch
downs.
They got this chance after about 
five minutes of the second half 
had gone by when guard Larry 
Stovicek grabbed a screen pass 
from OConnor and raced 32 yards 
for the score. The players had 
been on the lookout for just such 
a play from the scouting reports 
of previous Oberlin contests. When 
it came along they were ready.
The Skibos had another sure 
touchdown five minutes later 
when Nick Simcic faded back to 
[Continued on page 5]

---------------------------------------------------

TCH'5 OUT5TfND/N5 ND H05 DO/A/6 MOST OFTV- pftS5 ߣC/V//V6 fLL 5&JSOH 05 MEU-. 05 MUCH OF 7H PUNT/H&-
HE DIP SOME CHORUS HI6HSTEPP IN & TOR SCOTCH AK)P
Carn ega iDnyC ntao
OHN, 0 5&//0&, JUST 05 FffST 7H N0RPWOV5 ON THe f/Ufl*
/ coau> -TH/S /S THCbO</ WMT 7K.W ' 7H- #LLo V
HBmiUEOHLYWMATE& YET IS THE
JOHNNY
so Mild!
 Yes, Camels are so mild that a nationwide 30-day 
test of hundreds of smokers revealed not one single 
case of throat irritation due to smoking Camels! 
The people in this test  both men and women  
smoked Camels exclusively for 3(H5onsecutive days. 
Smoked an average of one to two packages of 
Camels a day. Each week their throats were ex
amined by noted throat specialistsa total of 2470 
exacting examinations. From coast to COast, 
these throat specialists reported
NO THROAT IRRITATION 
DUE TO SMOKING CAMELS!
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 194S
Soccer Team Beats Thiel 4-1, 
Loses To Westminster 6-1
Its first varsity victory of the year was provided Carnegie 
Tech on November 2 as the soccer team defeated visiting Thiel by
a 4-1 score. ?-------------------------------------------------
In the first period Thiel missed 
a chance to score on a penalty 
kick but a few minutes later 
Lochman Singh, Thiel center for
ward, pulled the defensive fullTNT, Emanon, 
SN Lead IM
ATO, Still Unbeaten, 
Threatens TNT Lead
Both TNT and ATO entered the 
last week of intramural football 
competition with perfect records 
in the torrid battle for first place 
in the Fdral League.
Led by end Connie Hamman, 
who scored three touchdowns, the 
ATOs shut out the DUs by a 23-0 
count. TNT also smothered im
potent Delta Upsilon, 41-12.
In the American League, TX 
gained undisputed possession of 
second place by outscoring PiKA 
in a thrilling battle, 35-25. Tail
back Nels Greene put on a fine 
exhibition of open-field running 
in scoring three touchdowns for 
the winners.
The Stanley Steamers staged a 
second half rally to edge the Tau 
Delts, 24-19. The defeat dropped 
TDP into last place in the Amer
ican League.
Emanon moved into first place 
in the race for top honors in the 
National League with a 20-15 con
quest of Beta Sigma Rho.
Kappa Sigma scored eight points 
in the final period to come from 
behind and edge front-running 
SAE, 15-13. Delta Tau Delta 
turned the tables by coming from 
behind in the fourth quarter to 
tie the Kappa Sigs in a thrilling 
battle, 18-18. Frank Motter led 
the Kappa Sig attack with two 
touchdowns.
back out of position and kicked a 
goal. The Tartans scored imme
diately afterward as Lipp bounc
ed a comer kick off his head into 
the goal, tying the score at 1-1.
In the second quarter de Moraes put the Plaid out in front and 
Lipp, for the second time, head
ed in a corner kick to give the 
Tartans the lead at halftime by 
a 3-1 score.
In the last quarter de Vos tal
lied for Carnegie making the final 
score 4-1.
The team went back in the loss 
column Saturday afternoon as 
they were hopelessly outclassed 
by Westminster and ended up on 
the short end of a 6-1 score. Car
negies only goal came in the final 
period as the Westminster goalie, 
rushed by five men, dropped the 
ball, and Jenkins kicked it in.
Intramural 
Summary
Standings
CMERICCn LECGUE Won LostSggma nu .................................... 4 qrheta Xg ........................... 3
PgeC ................................................a 2
Grgngoes .............................................2 3Staniey Steamers .........................i 3
rau Deita Phg..................................0 3
FEDERCL LECGUErnr ....................................................  0CrO ......................................................3 0
Cgtcom .................................................3 2
Phg eappa ........................................2 2Deita Upsgion ...................................1 4
FPHC ..................................................  5
nCrIOnCL LECGUEEmanon ...............................................3 1
Beta rheta Pg..................................2 aSCE........................................................3 2
eappa Sggma ....................................i 2*Beta Sggma Rho ..............................i 3
Deita rau Deita .............................0 a*Piayed tge game
Results
CMERICCnrheta Xg 35 PgeC 25.Staniey Steamers 24 rau Deits a9. FEDERCLCrO 23 DU 0.rnr 4a DU a2.
nCrIOnCLEmanon 20 Beta Sggs a5. eappa Sggma a5 SCE a3.
eappa Sggma a8 Deita rau Deita a8.
Oberlin Game
[Continued from page 4] 
the Oberlin 30-yard line and un
leashed a perfect strike to Fritz 
Wilson in the end zone. Just as 
Wilson was about to make the 
catch, two Oberlin men clipped 
him from behind. The officials 
failed to detect an infraction of 
either the interference with pass 
receiver rule or the clipping rule.
Oberlin took the ball at this 
point and kicked up into Car
negie territory. Simcic made a 
beautiful running catch and re
turned to the Oberlin 42. A Simcic 
to Fougere pass play brought the 
ball down to the 24. Simcic picked 
up 6 yards on two plays and Quent 
Holtz bucked for two more. As 
the third quarter ended Simcic 
sliced through tackle for 11 yards. 
Two more plays and he was over 
for Carnegies second touchdown. 
Wes Kenneys placement made the 
scoreboard read Oberlin 20, Car
negie 13.
With only six minutes left in 
the game the Tartans started to 
march again from their own 7- 
yard line. A screen pass from Sim
cic to Oberg was good for 37 
yards. On the next play Simcic 
hit Bob Dougherty with a pass on 
the Oberlin 33. After marching 60 
yards on two plays in a fight 
against the clock, the Plaid's 
short-lived luck ran out when 
Bill Weaver, Oberlin fullback in
tercepted a Simcic pass on the 
26-yard line.
The Skibos were so tired and 
weak by this time that Parks, 
Johnson, and OConnor needed 
only three running plays to score 
the last touchdown from their 
own 43.
TBB CARNEGIE TARTAN
Sports Headliners By Bob Korn

---------------------------------------------------

6THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 19*
Sports
Intramurals
Intramural competition will 
soon move into high gear with 
entries for wrestling, ping pong, 
volleyball, and bowling due with
in the next week.
A required period of practice 
will begin on November 15, for 
wrestlers with actual competition 
scheduled to start the first week 
in December. Each organization 
will enter up to eight men with 
two men from each team allowed 
in each weight division up to the 
team limit. This will enable teams 
who do not have light men to 
enter more competition.
Wrestling practice is now be
ing held Monday through Thurs
day of each week i the gym for 
those who wish to compete.
Bowling entries are due No
vember 12, in order to complete 
arrangements for alley reserva
tions at University Bowling al
leys. Competition will begin De
cember 4.
For That Quick Bite, theSPORT (ENTER GRILL
3813 Fifth Avenue
Fast Service and Good Food 
IDEAL FOR LUNCH
Brgefs
Ping pong and volleyball en
tries must be in by this Friday 
with competition scheduled to be
gin next Wednesday. After com
pletion of team matches, it is hop
ed to have individual ping pong 
competition.
Stvimming
Candidates for the varsity 
swimming team will meet with 
Coach Claude Sofield in the gym 
at 4:30 today. Training will begin 
immediately.
All men interested in varsity 
swimming are invited to report to 
the meeting.
^Uinard ^tudio 
Fine Portraitures
Application prints and 
photostats in a hurry
MUseum 0314
3919 Forbes Street
(Corner Atwood) Room 415
Hockey
Still seeking their first victory, 
the Carnegie Tech girls hockey 
team will play host to the Uni
versity of Pittsburgh squad for 
the second consecutive time on 
November 13.
In the first meeting between 
the two teams, the Plaid dropped 
a 4-0 decision to the visiting 
Panthers. All who attend the 
contests are invited to a social on 
November 15, from 7:30 to 10 
oclock in the Black Cat.
Classified Advertisements
FOR SALE36 Ford Phaeton. Exceiient 
condgtgon. needs new roof. Csk for 
Donaid Denngston at MC. 5488 after 
4:30 p. m.
WCnrEDHgde to Phgiadeiphga for two.
rhanksggvgng hoigday. Share expenses. 
Can ieave anytgme after Monday. Caii 
EMerson 0652 after 6 p. m. or see 
norm Levy of the prgntgng department.
ONE DOLLAR brgngs you egther500 
gummed stgckers prgnted wgth name, 
address, teiephone, or any four ignes 
Box of statgonery wgth name and addressDozen pencgis wgth name gm
prgnted. Coiiege Servgce, Box 7254, Pgttsburgh, Penna.
CnnOUnCInG the new four coior pen 
that wrgtes gn red, biue, green, and 
erasabie biack, and changes from one coior to another gnstantiy, automatg
caiiy, by pressgng the top. Beautgfui goiden metai. Oniy $4.25. Coiiege Servgce, Box 7254, Pgttsburgh, Penna.
WCnrED FOR rRCInInGrwo aiertyoung men wgth Mechangcai Engg eergng degrees, tragngng or background. ro be tragned by heavy equgpment house 
for future permanent managergai posgtgons wgth weii-estabigshed, progressgve fgrm. Send recent photo, educatgonai background, and busgness hgstory, gf any. Caig MU. 7376 or wrgte c/o the 
rCRrCn through the gnterschooi magi.
For ad information, 
call MU. 7376.
like cream nair tonics?
contains 
viratoi* J>srwr
gives'your hair 
|>that "just-combed*^ 
lookall,day long?
6
NEW FORMULA WITH VIRATOL*
works wonders in the 
looks of your hair.
It looks natural...it 
feels natural...and 
it stays in place 1 
Try a bottle.
More independent experts smoke Lucky Strike regularly 
than the next 2 leading brands combined!
rRCDE MCRe  (
*This special compound gives lustre : s : keeps hair in place without stiffnessi
An impartial poll covering all the Southern tobacco markets reveals 
the smoking preference of the men who really know tobaccoauction
eers, buyers and warehousemen. More of these independent 
experts smoke Lucky Strike regularly than the next two 
leading brands combined.
Laundry worries got you? Then 
start using the direct conven
ient, personalized laundry 
service offered by RAILWAY 
EXPRESS. By personalized serv
ice we mean your laundry will 
be collected by Railway Ex
press pick-up facilities, sent to
your hbme promptly, and re
turned to your college address.
If your folks insist on paying 
all the bills, you can stretch your 
cash-on-hand by sending laun
dry home charges collect" and 
having it returned with charges 
prepaid at the other end.,
No extra charge for pick-up and delivery in all cities 
and principal town*. Valuation free up to $50.00
RAI IAVAYd3p>EXPRESS
CCeeCV\/ InC.
NATION-WIDE RAIl-Alft SERVICE
con., rHE CMERICCn rOBCCCO COMPCnY
 LUCeY SrRIeE MECnS FInE rOBCCCO ,
So round, so firm, so fully packed  so free and easy on the draw

---------------------------------------------------

EDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1948THE CARNEGIE TARTAN7
Tea, Smoker Are Held 
For Evening Students
Cchgevement Piaque Presented 
ro Schooi Ct Evengng Smoker
More than fifty women evening students were entertaining at a 
tea on Saturday, October 23, in Carnegie Union, sponsored by 
evening student council.
Members of Phi Gamma Pi assisted Elsie Capelli, council rep
resentative, in preparing the af
fair.
NewsCndVgews
It doesnt seem possible that five 
weeks of the new school semester 
have passed by, but the calendar 
mutely reminds us of this fact, 
and also that the time is not too 
far off (November 20), the final 
date for dropping subjects.
Its always a new experience 
walking the cut from Forbes 
Street, and the other evening was 
no exception, for out of the dark
ness marching towards me were a 
couple of the Kiltie Boys, blow
ing soulfully into the bag pipes 
they were carrying. It wasnt nec
essary to be told to move over, 
for it was soon apparent that the 
boys were conscious of nothing but 
the rhythm and music. I didnt 
turn around once the boys passed 
me, but Im still wondering how 
they got down the steps leading to 
Forbes street.
Our hurrahs this week go to the 
fellows who found the time to at
tend evening student councils 
smoker last Saturday evening.
Before we go any further, we 
would like to mention the fact that 
the Evening Student Council will 
sponsor its annual Thanksgiving 
dance Saturday, November 27, 
1948. The dance will be held as 
usual in Thistle hall. Arrange
ments have been made to bring 
an outstanding new band to the 
evening students. We hope you 
will keep this date open and 
watch this page for further and
more detailed announcements.
At the annual meeting of the 
Pittsburgh Student Chapter of 
A. I. M. E., an award was made 
to David Pettigrew, class of 48, 
for his thesis on The Determina
tion of Solidus Method in Al-Cu 
Systems. David was a former 
Evening Student Council presi
dent, who, after his discharge from 
the armed service, finished his 
studies in day school.
It is gratifying to see how many 
former evening students teach 
courses at Tech evening school, 
and from all reports they are do
ing a mighty fine job. This is un
derstandable, for who knows bet
ter the problems of evening stu
dents than the boys who have 
graduated from the ranks.
For the next few weeks we will 
again be shaken out of our leth
argy by the fact that many of our 
fellow-country men are in need 
of assistance, and we should make 
every effort to contribute to the 
Community Fund, so that these 
needy will realize some of the 
comforts that we take for granted.
Following the tea, a special 
meeting of Phi Gamma Pi was 
held for election of officers.
Ethel Witzel was elected pres
ident; Cecille Zellner, vice presi
dent; Betty Lakotos, secretary; 
and Elizabeth Dietsch, treasurer. 
All of the new officers are enroll
ed in general studies.
The first event on the Evening 
Student Councils Social Calendar 
was a Smoker, held in Thistle Hall 
on Saturday evening, October 
23rd. Ray Schwalm, Social Chair
man, provided a well filled even
ing. In addition to items for in
ternal consumption, Hay had on 
hand a program of movies for 
those who enjoy an intellectual bill 
of fare. Cigarettes and matches 
were also provided. It was inter
esting to see the movies of the 
Sugar Bowl Classic in which Car
negie Tech participated some years 
ago. May be some day it could 
happen again with Tech emerg
ing victorious then.
The main event of the evening 
was the presentation of the Even
ing Schools Achievement Plaque. 
Frank Mihelich, representing the 
Evening Student Council, present
ed the plaque to Dalziel McKelway, who accepted it on behalf of 
the school. As soon as arrange
ments can be made the plaque will 
be on display in Administration 
Hall. The designers, Chester Biscup, Dal McKelway and Carl 
Muhlenbruch are to be congratu
lated for their work in making this 
plaque possible.
On November 27th, the annual 
Thanksgiving dance will be held 
in Thistle Hall. So come on fel
lows, grab a gal (a wife will do), 
and bring her to the dance. You 
can bring your friends along if 
you like. The more the merrier. 
Put a big smile on Ray Schwalms 
face by turning out for this event 
in full force.
Make "BUD" your ARROW 
Headquarters
236 Diamond St.
Across From Donahoes
ATlantic 2964
Arrow ties can take it!
EVEN IN LEAP YEARI
rhe Carnegge Piagd
Page edited by Evening School Students 
of the Carnegie Institute of Technology
Editor ................................................................................. Lou Adams
Associate Editors ... Raymond Schwalm, Charlene J. Tohey
Circulation Manager...................... .............................George Dawes
Staff
gr ReportersBob Ellstrom, .George Bogovich, Cecille Zellner Jim Flaherty.
ColumnistsFrank Mihelich, C. G. Anderson
Letter To The Editor
E SCFor All, Or The Few?
Editor, the Plaid
A couple of Saturday ago I at
tended the evening sehool smok
os and anticipated an enjoyable 
f?ening of talk with a few fel
low owls. After arriving on the 
campus, I searched a few lighted 
corridors, tried a few doors, lis
tened for the noise of the gath
ering, and finally pushed my way 
into Thistle hall. There I found 
a handful of men talking in small 
closed groups.
This situation brought a ques
tion to my mind. Is the Evening 
Evident Council an organization 
for the exclusive few, or are all 
the students members? For how 
does the council expect its pro
gram to expand if the bigger 
guns, who are continually shoot
ing off their mouths about the 
dearth of spirit and help, do not 
become acquainted with the
masses of the membership and 
use personal relationships. If I 
had not introduced mysel at the 
smoker, I could have come, en
joyed the refreshments and mov
ies, and left without anyone know
ing my name or if I were a stu
dent. Surely you realize that all 
the news articles, general an
nouncements and posters attract 
the attention of a minority of the 
potential active students. So how 
about trying another system and 
meet the people.
Ray Richards.
[Ed. note. The next editorial 
will contain an answer to Mr. 
Richards letter. In the meantime 
if any of the rest of you have any 
opinions on the subject write to 
the Editor, Carnegie Plaid, Box 
256, Carnegie Inst, of Tech., Pitts
burgh 13, Pa.]
University Recreation 
BOWLInG
Under New Management
AFTERNOON BOWLING
407-409 Craig Street
SChenley 9307
Just to give your 
voice a lift
Let's go to
ISALY'S
Milk Shakes 
Big Ice Cream Cones 
Klondikes 
Tasty Lunches
Campus Headquarters for Arrow Products, 
Featuring Curtis Shoes
LEOnCRD'S MEnS SHOP
Corner Forbes and Atwood St.Oakland
Three Stores In the College 
District
5808 Forbis Stmt SqHlrrel Hill 
3714 Forbts Street. Oaklaid
Main Pianti 
3380 Boulevard of the Allies
1 ............. ..1111 ....................
Wheayou make a long distance telephone 
call, your voice would soon fade out were 
it not for vacuum tube repeaters. They 
give your voice a lift whenever needed 
carry it clearly from coast to coast.
Vacuum tubes and other electronic devices are playing 
an ever-growing part in your Bell telephone service. As the 
manufacturing unit of the Bell System, Western Electric 
makes millions of these intricate little things.
To produce them to highest standards of precision and 
at lowest cost, Western Electric has just completed its new 
Allentown, Pa., plant latest addition to vast telephone 
making facilities in 18 cities. Now, and in the years ahead, 
this new Western Electric plant will help to make your 
Bell telephone service better than ever.
Western Electric
A UNIT OF.THE.BELl (m) SYSTEM SINCE 1882
SILK REPP STRIPES
FOULARDS
YES SIR! Oni<e> good reason college men like Arrow ties is 
the pure wool resilient lining that discourages wrinkles.
When you need a few new bows or four-in-hands, see your 
favorite Arrow dealer for the best buys in ties!
ARROW
SHIRTS and TIES
UNDERWEAR  HANDKERCHIEFS  SPORTS SHIRTS
KNITS
i
BOWSs
$1 to $2.50

---------------------------------------------------

RADIOS FAVORITE SON
STAR OF CHESTERFIELD'S
ARTHUR GODFREY TIME
"Tri''' s'
new factory for us 
smokers who like the 
MILDER cigarette... 
It's MY cigarette."
j1 wish I could take you in my Navion 
plane over the big, new factory Chesterfield 
is building at Durham, N. C. Its a honey. It 
will help supply the ever-increasing demand 
for the MILDER cigarette.
THE CARNEGIE TARTAN WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 194P
AIChEBuiietgn BoardInternatgonai Ciub 
Piays Host ro 
Pgtt, PCW Groups
Organized to help foreign and 
American students become ac
quainted with each other, their 
countries, and their customs, the 
International club of Carnegie 
Tech expects 100 people at its 
monthly meeting on November 21, 
at the Carnegie Union from 2:00 
to 5:00 p. m. The Cosmopolitan 
club of the University of Pitts
burgh and the International club 
of PCW have been invited.
Any undergraduate or graduate 
CIT student is eligible to join the 
club. A luncheon is held every 
Tuesday at the Carnegie Union 
from 11:30 to 1:30 p. m. A gettogether is held once a month on 
Sunday from 2:00 to 5:00 p. m.
Literary Lecture
The Literary Sleuth, the third 
in a series of lectures on litera
ture, sponsored by the English de
partment of Carnegie Tech, will 
be given by Dr. Austin Wright, 
head of the department, on No
vember 12, at 3:30 in MM 103.
In his lecture, Dr. Wright will 
try to convey some of the thrill 
which a literary scholar experi
ences in his search for an import
ant manuscript.
Previous lectures were given by 
Miss Gladys Schmitt on The 
Writing of a Historical Novel and 
by Mr. Donald M. Goodfellow on 
American Fiction in the Jazz 
Age.
Play Tickets
Tickets for the next drama pro
duction, Midsummer Nights 
Dream, to be shown at the Car
negie Theater from tomorrow 
through November 23, are now 
being distributed in the main of
fice of the Fine Arts building.
Upon the presentation of a stu
dent registration card, one ticket 
will be given each student.
Newman Club
An apologetics lecture class 
sponsored by the Newman club, 
has been scheduled to meet each 
Tuesday at 11:30 a. m. in EH 122. 
The Reverend Mr. Connolly will 
give the lectures.
Duquesne university will hold 
the next- Newman club dance on
November 19, and the coming 
Communion breakfast will be held 
at Central Catholic high school 
following the attendance at mass 
by the group at St. Pauls cathed
ral.
Debate Club
Present plans for the Debate 
club include attendance at the 
Mounty Mercy college tournament 
on November 17. All new Carne
gie debaters will participate at 
this tournament.
On December 1, the City De
bate league will hold a tourna
ment at Carnegie. The League 
members are Pitt, Mount Mercy, 
and Duquesne. Participating as 
guests of CIT will be Geneva 
college, Washington and Jeffer
son, and St. Vincent college.
American Institute of Chemical 
Engineers will hold a meeting at 
the TX house, 5017 Forbes Street, 
Friday, Nov. 12 at 8:15 p.m. A 
demonstrated lecture with pamph
lets will be given by Walt Stancati 
of Foxboro, Pa., on Fluid Flow 
and Its Measurements.
Special Lunches for 
Students and Businessmen
aa:00 C. M.2:00 P. M. 40c and UP
AUTHENTIC CHINESE DISHES
bIso--
AMERICAN DISHES SERVED
Bamboo Gardens
3531 FORBES STREET 
MA. 7493
"CHESTERFIELD is
building another big,
/
