The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 37 No. 17CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1943
Carnegie To Sponsor Freshman Elections
Fall V-12, D-12 Tests Held Today In M.M.
In Gym On Nov. 9 Freshman elections in Margaret
F reshrshm i- m i , Morrison will be held today fromCarnegie Institute of Technology n:00 to 1:00 in the front hall, M. M.
has been selected to administer C. C. Voters must produce their regqualifying tests for civilians aspir- istration cards to receive ballots, 
ing to enter either the Army Special- The candidates are as follows:
ized Training Program (A-12), or PRESIDENT
the Navy College Program (V-12). Camilla McCullough
The tests, open to all men passing Helen Miller
physical re*quirements for the ^e!!y ^u8i i c  i-u i * j Bette Yahrbranch of service they select and Charlotte Young
between the ages of seventeen and SECRETARY
twenty-two inclusive, will be given Peggy Kent
in the Carnegie Institute of Tech- Gerry Fairfax
nology Gymnasium Building on No- Ada Virginia Bucey
vember 9th, 1943. Alma Weinberger
Intent to take the test should be Jane Ramsey
made known to Mr. Wangeman, 155 Nancy Smith
I. H in order that the necessary test SENATE REPRESENTATIVE
supplies may be ordered. Ruth" Wsberger
The purpose of the Army Special- Eleanor Alexander
ized Training Program is to provide Jean Lisle
technicians and specialists for the
Army. Those selected for this pro- Wome,s Glee Club Joing 
gram will study ,at government expense, at colleges and universities in Community Sing 1 onight 
fields determined largely by their At tonights Soldiers Community
own qualifications. They will be Sing, the Women's Glee Club will 
soldiers on active duty, in uniform, entertain a program of songs. Since 
under military discipline, and on much of the soldiers interest in 
regular Army pay. They are under and pep at the Sings has been lost,
no obligation to serve in the Army they have asked the Glee Club to
longer than any other soldier. help lead the singing.
The curricula vary in length from Let My Song Fill Your Heart-----
one to eight 12-week terms, except ................................ Vienesse Waltz
that the medical and dental curri- Softly As In the Morning Suncula are of the length in use at ac- rise .............................. Romberg
credited colleges. The successful My Johnny Was a Shoemaker-----
trainee advances uninterruptedly to ............................English Folk Song
the completion of his course; how- Kathrynes Wedding Day........
Continued on page 5 .......................................... Folk Tune
fyosuneA (I. 0. *7. G. fJtuuioM. (leiusut
The Carnegie campus, which has 
undergone many drastic changes 
since last May, looked strangely 
familiar last week. Upperclassmen 
were surprised to see old friends 
back, and many old-time skibocowboys and arts school grass sitters 
were once again roaming the cam
pus they had left four months ago. 
Yes, after months of rumors and 
wild guesses, the junior ROTC stu
dents have returned. Carnegie Techs 
soldiers are back and the campus 
now looks a little more like the 
good old days.
There were about one hundred 
juniors in the advanced ROTC last 
spring, and then at the threshold of 
their last mile, they were called 
to the colors. Most of them went to 
Fort Belvoir and then landed at 
Virginia Polytechnic Institute with 
the ASTP. They arrived back at 
Carnegie Tech the beginning of last 
week, and are now quartered at the 
old PiKA house, as members of 
Company C. This return of the na
tives is in accordance with the war 
departments newly adopted policy 
of sending former college students 
back to their former universities to 
complete their education. As mem
bers of the ASTP and R05TC stu
dents will be subject to all the mili
tary drill and regulations imposed
upon their fellow trainees, but will 
not take the same courses. Instead 
they will pursue the studies in 
which they were engaged before 
being called to active service.
After completion of their college 
course here, the juniors will proba
bly be sent to Officer Candidates 
School to study for their commis
sions. Should vacancies in OCS 
arise during their stay here, how
ever, they may be transferred to the 
schools before completing their 
studies here.
The great majority of the newly 
arrived soldiers are members of the 
Engineers corps, although some are 
Signal Corps trainees, and one sol
dier belongs to the Field Artillery.
Among the big men on campus 
who have returned to their old 
haunts are Wilbur Thomas, past 
business manager of the TARTAN; 
basketball star Bob Debortoli, for
mer Student Council president, Bob 
Galbraith; ROTC cadet colonel, 
Jerry Apt, and athletic stars Bill 
Skinner and Bill Purcell. All these 
boys are now privates first class, in
cluding former Cadet Colonel Apt. 
But regardless of whether or not 
you were a BMOC before, fellows, 
we welcome you now as old friends 
and hope that the rest of Carnegie 
Techs service men will return soon 
to stayin civilian clothes.
Cold Absences Taboo! 
Students Can Now Buy 
Preventative Tablets
In an effort to reduce the amount 
of time lost in absences from school 
because of colds, the Department of 
Student Health announces a supply 
of cold preventative pulvules is now 
available at the office of the resident 
physician, 202 Gymnasium, at the 
same special cost as last year of 50c 
for twenty.
For those who are unfamiliar 
with immunization therapy, it con
sists of a series of pulvules taken for 
seven consecutive days before 
breakfast, then two pulvules a week 
throughout the period of greatest 
prevalence of colds to maintain im
munity . It prevents colds entirely 
in a great number of cases, or, at 
least decreases the severity and dur
ation of colds in all cases.
The treatment is especially rec
ommended for persons who are sub
jected to many colds; and it relieves 
respiratory infections, including 
bronchitis, rhinitis, catarrh, and 
pharnygitis.
The earlier this preventative 
measure is started the more effec
tive it is. It is important that the 
treatment be started before the 
cold season, caused by change
able weather and raw winds, is upon 
us.
C wens Sponsor Tea 
Tonight At The Union
As part of their program to make 
the 56 transfer students feel at home 
on the C. I. T. campus, the Cwens 
are sponsoring a Twin Sister Tea 
today, Tuesday, October 5 ,1943 at 
the Union from 7:00 to 9:00. It will 
be in the form of an open house with 
the entertainment being provided 
by the Cwens who are Dramats.
The Twin Sister institution is a 
unique feature on our campus. 
When a student transfers to Tech, 
the Cwens assign her a Twin Sister 
who helps her get adjusted, ac
quaints her with our special cus
toms, and sees that she gets along, 
in general.
All transfers are cordially invited 
to attend, and they are all promised 
a swell time.
Pitt, D. U. Air Corps Men 
Present Free Army Show
On the afternoon of October 10, 
from 2 until 4 p. m. at Forbes Field, 
the Air Corps boys from the Uni
versity of Pittsburgh and Duquesne 
University- will present an allArmy, all-Air Corps show to the 
citizens of Pittsburgh. The show, 
expected to be the largest of its 
kind ever held in Pittsburgh, will 
be presented to an expected crowd 
of 40,000. Among the most inter
esting events in the performance 
will be close order drilling by the 
Army unit from Duquesne, a group 
of two hundred Pitt Air Cadets go
ing over an obstacle course, and 
Continued on page 3
Dinner Given For 
Former M.E, Head
In appreciation of his many years 
of service to Carnegie Tech the ad
ministration, associates, and his for
mer students held a testimonial din
ner for Professor C. L. W. Trinks, 
Friday night at the University Club. 
It was the highlight of a great 
career for Professor Trinks, who re
tired June 30, 1943, after serving 
as Head of the Department of Mechanical Engineering for thirtyeight years.
The dinner opened with greetings 
from President Doherty and a short 
speech by the Department Head, 
Professor Estep, after which Pro
fessor Trinks was presented a gift 
in behalf of the school and alumni. 
The presentation was a handsome 
red and gold leather-bound volume 
containing letters to the Professor 
from men who previously studied 
under him and also a short biog
raphy of his life written in the form 
of cartoons portraying high points 
in his career.
Born in Berlin, Germany, in 1874, 
Professor Trinks received his de
gree as a mechanical engineer twen
ty-five years later at Charlottenburg. During the ensuing years he 
served first as an apprentice and 
later as an engineer in the United 
States. In September, 1905, ProfesContinued on page 5
Notices
Petitions are now due for the nomi
nation for ACAC representative from 
the College of Fine Arts. To be eligi
ble, candidates must be Seniors in that 
College. All petitions must be signed 
by at least 15 Fine Arts students of 
any class, and murt be in Dean Mur
phys office before Friday, October 
8th, at 4 p. m.
Reminder: All organizations have 
to hand in a complete budget for the 
school year 1943-44 (Sept. 1943-May 
1944) to the ACAC. Budgets have to 
be in Dean Murphys office before Fri
day, October 8th, at 4 p. m.
All the students who have studied 
some Spanish, as well as those from 
Spanish speaking countries, are cordially invited to the weekly get-to
gether at the Carnegie Union with the 
ASTP soldiers specializing in Spanish.
There, every Thursday at 6:40 p.m. 
Spanish is sung, spoken and, at times, 
mangled.

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1943
The 18-Year Old Vote
All over the country today there is discussion of the 18-year-old vote 
question, and yet we have never heard the slightest bit of talk about that 
subject on the TECH campus. Whats wrong here? Many of the thinking 
people of this nation favor the idea of adding an amendment to the U. S. 
Constitution lowering suffrage age from 21 to 18, but our college students 
(a majority of whom are within the questioned age limit) seem to be 
ignorant of the whole idea. Nor are they alone in their apathy in the 
ryiatter, for of all the college newspapers we have delved through week 
sifter week, only one, Th University of Colorados Silver and Gold, has 
mentioned campus interest in the question. What is wrong when the group 
most vitally concerned in such a controversy apparently cares not a fig for 
its outcome? .
Pro ...
The mainstay of the pro argument can be summed up by, If hes old 
enough to fight and die for his country, hes old enough to vote in its gov
ernmental elections. The days of rah-rah Joe College in his coonskin coat 
are a thing of the past. Young men and women of 18 are qualified for 
service in the armed and military forces of the nation; many think that 
they could not do worse in post-war decisions than was done at the end of 
the last war; they certainly know more about the world situation than the 
youth of any past generation. Naturally, qualification for voting should 
depend on interest in and knowledge of social, economic, and political facts, 
processes, and forces, rather than arbitrary age distinction; but as this 
discrimination cannot be made, the question remains that of whether 18- 
year-olds are not as competent of judgment as those 21 or over. It involves 
also, in some minds, a question of democracy: Youth is aiding in the war 
effort  holding down responsible positions in the armed forces, working 
in vital war industries, paying taxes as their elders are doing, paying the 
highest price on the battlefields now, and will continue paying the highest 
price for the war; yet because these young men and women are below the 
full numerical age of 21, they are deprived of the rights that democracy is 
supposed to convey. They believe it is the least that the home front can do 
for them  to give them a chance to vote on the things they are fighting for.
Con . . .
Many equally farsighted thinkers, however, take the opposite view of 
this question. They believe that although a few terms in college often gives 
a young person training in thinking for himself, the university population 
of the United States is only a small fraction of the 18-to-21 year olds, the 
majority of whom are not experienced in reasoning and are incapable of 
thinking for themselves. They hold that the reason an 18-year-old makes 
an excellent soldier is that he is highly emotional and easily influenced. A 
good officer can make him go forward regardless of life or limb; they 
wnder whether a good politician could not make him vote for a certain 
party regardless of consequences. That youth is easily influenced by elocu
tion and propaganda has been proved by the enthusiastic responses to 
youth movements in the fascist and totalitarian countries, as well as the 
former wide-spread anti-war youth movement in our own nation. The 
men who oppose lowering the voting age feel that balanced judgment is 
tlm great need of our world, rather than the unthinking emotional response 
typical of youth. It is our opinion that even the majority of college people 
are not ready for enfranchisement. Besides the damning evidence of their 
striking apathy where campus issues are involved. At election time not 
evn half of the students vote; when a new constitution for Student Coun
cil was drafted, we met about 20 students who read it out of an enrollment 
of over 2,000. This fact is not necessarily conclusive, but it is indicative 
that they are incapable of managing a school government, let alone their 
own national government. *
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the 
staff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not 
to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Citrnegle Institute of Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh, Pa.
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2600 PHONE SCHENLEY 4567
REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY __ _ ..
hc-  ^ ~
420 Madison Ave. New York. n. y. Business Manager............................SC. 8951
REPSNTD F ODAIDL  Los NVTGGA o sNo FVNLSPASD
Entered ms leconl-euss matter In the Pittsburgh Post Office under the Act of March 3, 1879.
? Published weekl/ during school yeaT, except holidays and examination periods.
Subscription Price *1.10 per year. .
Editor-in-Chief.....................................................................................................T. J. Harmany
Business Manager.......................................................................................................... Nick Reed
Co-Managing Editors.......................................................................Louisa Saul, Walt Darby
Copy Editors................................................................................Elaine Levin, Gerry Edelson
Sports Editor..........................................................................................................Jim Montague
Assistant Business Manager........ ............ ............................................. Merle Wolff
Personnel Manager ............................................................................................... Naomi Ellman
Circulation ......................................................................................................... Chester Feinberg
Photography Editor ............................................................................................... Tom Bokman
Photography Staff...........................................................................Dick Bingham, Joe Urban
Sports Staff..................................................................................John Lindberg, Dick ONeill
Reporters: Aron Beck, Gerald Brickman, Lois Brunn, Audrey Colledge, Walter Ell
man, Lucille Emmel, Tom Farrahay, Mary Jane Ferguson, Malcolm Festenstein, 
Al Ganschow ,Nick Georges, John Glass, Nancy Goodwin, Adeline Herlick, Dolores 
ftorovitz, Bill Kolb, Ernie Lowenstein, Theresa McLaughlin, Bill McShane, Helen 
Miller, Janet Murray, Marshall Nurenberg, Natalie Nathan, Mary Jane Paine, Al
bert Perry, Marie Raynal, Gerry Racusin, Lucille Schulberg, Harriet Sidler, Bob 
Sugarman, Jolene Svirman, Ruth Tipherman, Alma Weinberger, Hanah Estermann.
one of the girls
After I came away from the in
terview with Ruth Kwall, I knew 
very little about Ruthie but a lot 
about Corporal Joe Portnoy. She is 
going to marry tall, blonde, blue
eyed, handsome Joe when she 
graduates in December. Her one 
aim and ambition in life is just to 
be a good wife to Joe. Her favorite 
sports are riding, dancing, and 
swimming, with Joe. When she 
has a few empty moments she loves 
to knit thingsthats rightfor Joe.
Besides being the fiancee of Joe, 
Ruth is president of the Senior 
Class, a member of Mu Alpha Gam
ma of which she was president last 
year, and a member of the Dance 
Club. Her favorite school day is 
Thursday which is the day she 
works for the Aetna Life Insurance 
company down town. Out of school 
she is a member of the Nurses Aide 
Corps and works at one of the hos
pitals in the city every Sunday. In 
this last capacity she and two Jani
tors in an old convertible chased an 
epileptic police patient around the 
block but didnt get him. Ruth was 
just as glad.
She hates to do homework be
cause she has so many other things 
to do now. When she isnt busy 
shopping for her trousseau, she is at 
home learning to cook and sew. 
Every Saturday she talks to Joe on 
the telephone; in between times she 
writes lettersshe hates to write 
letters unless they are for Joe. Her 
wedding is going to be quite a sim
ple one because she doesnt think 
that now is the time for an elaborate 
show. She is going to wear a street 
length dress for her wedding.
Giggling is as much a part of her
. . . Ruth Kwall
as her black hair and dark eyes. It 
is almost impossible for her to tell 
something that strikes her as being 
funnyeverytime she thinks about 
it she bursts out giggling and no one
can understand her. In her serious 
moments she is a pretty little girl 
who likes to be neat and orderly, 
who likes down-to-earth, intelligent 
people, who appreciates the arts al
though she thinks she has no special 
talents in them. She took piano les
sons for years and was in an a capella choir when she was in high 
school. Joewho is a musician in 
civilian life, was in the same choir 
and used to stare at the alto section 
where Ruth was. She was very 
much thrilled and thought, At last 
that handsome tenor is looking at 
me. After she had sung an alto solo 
when she was a senior, Joe waited 
for her outside and greeted her with 
a very romantic, So youre the alto 
whos dragging me off pitch.
cMo*UVl Roll
The following is the Honor List of the Carnegie Institute of Technology 
for the summer semester ending August 21, 1943:
SENIORSSOPHOMORESNAMEFACTORNAMEFACTORWilliam Walton Carter (6)4.00John Judson Keves, Jr. (2)4.00Robert Marvin Dodds (6)4.00George Edward Pake (2)4.00Sarah Ellen Osborn (6)4.00John Cykler Stephenson (2)4.00Margaret Rose Skeehan (4)4.00Leonard Solomon Lerman  (2)3.91Hans Conrad Schaupitz (2)3.91Edgar Pay Stephens (2)3.90Janet Marion Denslow (6)3.87Irvine Van Nice (2)3.84Charles Philip Greening (6)3.83Paul Peter Gibian (2)3.83Wallace Wright Carpenter (2)3.82Davis Benton Jones, Jr. (2)3.80Howard Charles Volkin (513.82Edward George Thurston3.80Howard Wesley Etzel (6)3.81William Philip Cohen (1)3.72Patricia Anne McGee (5)3.75Raymond Voyle Smith (2)3.72Harold Constantine Schweinler (6)3.72Joseph Paul Balash (1)3.70Donald Ray Brunstetter <1>3.71Arthur John Opinsky (2)3.68Eleanor Jean Kirkpatrick (3)3.67Kenneth Henry Vogel (2)3.68Harold Paul Landerl (2)3.66Milton Irving Friedman (2)3.66Jean Belle Weinkauf (4)3.66Daniel Lewis Schacher (It3.66James Dean Minford (1)3.65Graham Allan Renberg (2)3.58Joy Madeleine Swan (6)3.61Martin Robert Dorff (2)3.54Jenne Agnes Liput (6)3.59Howard Benedict Palmer (2)3.54Betty Jane Lloyd3.59Joseph Leo Kelly (2)3.52Elizabeth Ann Porteous3.57Simon Foner (1)3.51Harry Merle Mahan (1)3.46Joseph Parke Franz, Jr. (2)3.51Carl Louis Day (1>3.44John Sylvester Sieger (2)3.46Helena F.dna Aronson (3)3.42Lawrence Thomas OBrien3.45Marion Edward Cieslicki3.38Merle Thompson Wolff3.38Robert Gohdes Redelfs3.37Harold Martin Hagaman (2)3.28Elizabeth Anne Beall (3)3.28William Gerald Daly (2)3.24Martha Lavina Jones (6)3.27Paul Fredrick Moore (2)3.20Laurence David Johnson (1)3.26Charles William Duffett, Jr. (1)3.16Charles Bedell Frost3.21George Edward Foltz (2)3.15Peter Paul Graziano (1) 
Naomi Elise Ellman (1)
3.21
3.17FRESHMEN
John DeLarme Henry3.16Richard Melvin Drisko4.00
JUNIORSJulia Ann Randall 
Richard Osman Burk3.80
3.76
Robert James Riddell (4)3.95James Edward Franz3.67
3.94John Douthett Krummell3.60George Russell Taylor (4)George Howard Royer3.60Don Hargrave Gross (4)3.88Jack Sardis Pollock3.56Robert Eugene Morie (4)3.85Ernest Albrecht Lowenstein3.54Sara Loui e Bloom (4)3.81Don Rosswell Harris3.52Laurence Albert Pursglove (4)3.75Richard Louis Bright3.50Dorothy Lucille Stauff (4)3.63Seymour Roy Corwin (1)3.48Howard Leonard Engel I4>3.61Louis Andrew Umbach3.48Benjamin Elwood Cutrell (2)3.59Joseph Ralph Vogan (1)3.48Donald Calhoun Worth (3)3.47Allan Igo Bennett3.47
George Henry Succop (1)3.44Harold LaRue Davis3.47
Ethel Marie Higgins (1)3.42Robert Louis Marcus3.47
Evelyn Meyerson (4)3.42Richard Glenn Yard3.47
Charles Samuel Landau, Jr.3.38Arthur Frank Naylor3.46
George Francis Ondish (3)3.38George Alfred Kemeny3.42
Leon Gilbert Levy3.37James Okey Montague3.42
William Charles Leone (3)3.33A,v>ert ^wninp Perry, Jr.3.42
Eloise Jane Nettleton (113.33Edward VonHalle3.42
Robert William Wright (4)3.28L-.oi.es Raacniie White3.42
Rudolph William Danis (23.27Kenneth Lane Scheppele3.40
Frank Marse Ferrel (1)3.19David Gue McMahon3.36
Norman Kristian Osmundsen (1)3.19Walter Emanuel Ellman3.32
Rosemary Emma Dempsey3.15Theodore Eugene Gazda3.30

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1943THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
Kilties Reorganized 
For Football Season
The Kilties are coming, Hooray, 
Hooray! is not just a part of the 
Carnegie Tech fight song this year, 
for in realityThe Kilties are com
ing.
After a great deal of uncertainty, 
contemplation, and final decision, it 
was decided to uphold the band tra
dition at Carnegie by again having 
the band dressed in the colorful 
kilts. The size of the band, how
ever, is uncertain, pending official 
decision as to the eligibility of ASTs 
as members of the organization. The 
Kilties, dressed in full regalia of 
short plaid skirts, kneesocks and 
Scotch caps, will make one trip, al
though it has not yet been decided 
whether the honored city will be 
Cleveland, for the Case game, or 
Morgantown, W. Va. for the Univer
sity of West Virginia game.
Band elections were held on Wed
nesday, September 29th when Bob 
Altman was elected manager and 
Bill Carpenter was chosen Secretary-Manager. All students who play 
musical instruments are urged to 
come out for every rehearsal.
.. ACAC Minutes..
The meeting was called to order at 5:20 
p.m.
Present: Messrs. Marcus, Fairchild,
Peterson, Wolff, and Talaber; Misses Rial, 
Schadel, and Bloom.
COMMITTEE REPORTS 
Athletics
Mr. Peterson moved that the Intra
mural Board minutes for the meeting of 
September 22 be accepted as read.
Motion carried.
Publications
Mr. Wolff reported that there would be 
a meeting of the Publications Committee 
at the Union at 5 p.m. Thursday, Sep
tember 30.
OLD BUSINESS
Miss Schadel was informed that there 
were no petitions available in Mrs. Yons 
office for freshmen in Margaret Morrison 
who wished to run for office.
Mr. Murphy reported that Mr. Sher 
had reviewed the Kiltie Band budget, and 
anunderstanding between Mr. Sher and 
the members of the Kiltie Band is being 
established. At present there are about 
85 members, including both civilian and 
Army students, out for the band. The 
problems are being solved and there is 
promise for the band.
Mr. Fairchild reported that the sale of 
tickets for "the all-school dance, October 
1, sponsored by Company B was going 
well among the soldiers, but few civilians 
had purchased tickets. He believed the 
slowness of civilian sales was due to the 
fact that civilians had not been contacted. 
The TARTAN had been depended upon 
as the means of contacting civilian stu
dents, but it had not given the dance suf
ficient publicity.
Mr. Murphy asked Mr. Wolff to point 
out to persons in charge of publications 
the necessity of printing items pertinent 
to the student body. It was the opinion 
of A.C.A.C. that, as the first social func
tion of the year, Company Bs dance 
should have been given more space. Neg
lecting to give space to this dance is not 
consistent with the policy of giving space 
to criticism of lack of school spirit among 
students. Mr. Wolff was asked to convey 
to the TARTAN staff A.C.A.C.s view on 
publicity for student activities.
NEW BUSINESS
Organizations which have not yet sub
mitted their budgets to A.C.A.C. are 
asked to do so immediately.
Adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
SALLY BLOOM, 
Assistant Secretary.
Tech Quota Set At 175 
For Blood Bank Day
Its Carnegie Tech Day at the 
Blood Bankand the day is Satur
day, October 23. From 10:00 a. m. 
to 2:00 p. m. that day, students and 
faculty of Carnegie Tech will give a 
pint of their blood for the fighting 
boys over there at the Red Cross 
Blood Donation center in the Wa
bash Building, downtown Pitts
burgh.
The Carnegie donors will be or
ganized in thirty-five teams, each 
team consisting of five people and a 
captain. Each captain will be re
sponsible for checking and accept
ing releases from the members of 
his team.
Inasmuch as the Blood Donor Mo
bile Unit will not come to the cam
pus until January, persons who give 
their blood on Carnegie Tech Day 
will be able to give their blood again 
to the mobile unit, for the 60 days 
necessary to wait between donations 
will have elapsed.
It is imperative that at least 175 
people volunteer to give their blood 
in order to make Carnegie Tech Day 
at the Blood Bank successful. There
fore, hurry and enter your applica
tion at the bond center in Adminis
tration Hall.
College Women Are Badly 
Needed As WAC Officers 
Women who have had at least 
four years of experience in work, 
study, social or civic fields may ap
ply for officer training in the WACS. 
The four years experience may in
clude one or two years of college 
with outside experience to fill out 
the four years. Any girl who is a 
college graduate is eligible to enter 
WAC officer candidate school fol
lowing basic training.
WAC officers duties include such 
interesting fields as Public Rela
tions, Personnel and Recruiting and 
are assigned to the staffs of com
manding generals in all service com
mands and overseas. Interested col
lege women should contact the re
cruiting office nearest them immedi
ately as the Army needs many more 
WAC officers.
Air Show ...
Continued from page 1 
several other typical activities of 
the routine Army life. Throughout 
the whole performance three Army 
bands will add zip to the afternoon 
by their playing of well known Air 
Corps songs.
Meet the Air Cadets will be the 
slogan of this timely show which 
has been organized by the Aviation 
Cadet Board for Western Pennsyl
vania under the direction of Cap
tain L. A. Floro to stimulate inter
est in enlistments in the Air Corps 
from this area. Dont forget, its 
Free!
How To Mail Christmas Gifts
Seemillers Dairy Store 
and Luncheonette
417 S. CRAIG ST. Just Off Forbes
Dance 
Where Its Young and Gay
EVERY SATURDAY NIGHT 
on the
CONTINENTAL
Vol. 37NN1C7
85 cents per person 
Plus Tax
Only 10 more days for Christmas 
shopping. We realize that it is still 
September, but there is a deadline 
for Christmas parcels to be shipped 
overseas. All parcels must be mailed 
between September 15 and October 
15, if we want our men and women 
in the service to receive their pres
ents from home. After October 15
Stifle SmileA
Feminine Whimsy Sets 
Fashions On Campus
Brr-rr-r! The prediction of an
other cold winter has brought out 
the cotton-backed fleece coats which 
made such a hit last year when the 
college girls took them to their 
hearts. Some of the most popular 
styles are of velveteen and wide 
wale corduroy. And the light 
weight types will still be good next 
spring and summer. Equally smooth 
are the new fur-lined coats. Per
fect for those expected chilly 
months ahead.
Silhouette, 1944: straight as a col
umn and slim as a cigarette. If 
youre not up to snuff, times 
awastin.
New version of Dads red flannels 
are the n-e-w leotards. If it werent 
for the vivid stripes or polka dots, 
they might be mistaken for a second 
skin. All you need over them is a 
skirt, long or short.
Maybe you saw the tricky skirt 
in Septembers Harpers Bazaar. Its 
stitched up in seams to resemble 
pleats, and when you pull in the 
drawstring belt, it folds up like an 
umbrellabuilt for taking life and 
travel in its stride.
Also seen in the new H. B.: curvettes. Curvette is a new word in 
fashion. Its an item of headgear, a 
curve, a crescent, only big enough 
to frame your face in front, to show 
off your hair in back. Its the eas
iest hat, the gayest, and the trim
mest. Like a telephone headpiece, 
it hugs your ears. When you choose 
your curvette, think first of your 
hair. What could be prettier than 
dark fur on a honey blonde, or vivid 
velvet on a shining black head? 
Dont forget that the new ration 
coupons for shoes will be good for 
only two pairs instead of three; 
therefore, buy with an eye to serv
ice.
parcels may not be mailed unless & 
written request from the soldier fof 
the article is present with each par* 
cel.
Rules for Christmas mailing were 
made public early in June. The 
parcel must not exceed more than 
36 inches in length and width com
bined. It must be packed in a con
tainer of metal, wood, strong fiber 
board, or similar material; then 
wrapped in strong paper and tied 
with twine. The cover should be 
such that it can be opened readily 
for censorship, and should be plain
ly marked Christmas Parcel, so 
that it can receive immediate atten
tion. Not more than one parcel may 
be mailed in any one week to the 
same member of the armed forces 
by or in behalf of the same mailer.
On packages for an Army man 
the information should include re
turn address of the sender, name 
of the addressee, rank, Army serial 
number, organization, Army post of
fice number, and the name of the 
post office through which the parcel 
is routed.
The address on the package for a 
Navy man should include the name 
and rank or rating of the addressee, 
the Naval unit to which he is assign
ed, and the Navy number assigned 
thereto, or the name of his ship, and 
the fleet post office through which 
the parcel is routed.
CHOOSE YOUR BANK 
WITH A 
THOUGHT TO THE FUTURE 

MELLON 
NATIONAL BANK
MEMBER FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE 
CORPORATION
MosqueSaturday Eve., Oct. 9Opening May Beegle Concert
OPERA FAUST WITa0ScpZITAN
$1.10, $1.65, $2.20, $2.75, $3.30 at Mellors Now 
PITTSBURGH ORCHESTRA ASSOCIATION PRESENTS
FOUR SYMPHONY CONCERTS
AT SYRIA MOSQUE
SATURDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 11
BOSTON SYMPHONY
SUNDAY AFTERNOON, DECEMBER IS
BOSTON SYMPHONY
(DIFFERENT PROGRAM)
KOUSSEVITZKY, Conductor
SATURDAY EVENING, APRIL 29
PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA
SUNDAY AFTERNOON, APRIL
PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA
(REQUEST PROGARM)
ORMANDY, Conductor
SPECIAL STUDENT RATE SALE NOW ON 
AT MELLOR'S
604 WOOD STREET
Student Rates For Symphony Series: $1.50, $1.50, $2.80, $3.60, $5.00
To secure these rates, present year identification card at box office at Mellors Music Store, opr
from 9:00 te 5:00 daily.

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 5; 1943
one of the profs
Dean Yon has a quality which is 
hard to describe in words . . . one 
might call it the essence of democ
racy. She has so much charm, so 
much unpretentiousness that any
one feels perfectly at ease in her 
presence, and cannot help admiring 
a woman of such a high character 
that allows her to be so simple. It is 
impossible not to like her, for Car
negie Techs youthful matriarch 
wantsand makes one feel that she 
wantsto be the friend of every
one on campus.
After musical training at the Cin
cinnati Conservatory and the Glas
gow Athenaeum, Mrs. Yon was ac
tive as a church singer until the fall 
of 1938, when she became hostess of 
the newly-opened Carnegie Union. 
She retained this position for two 
years, and these years were of 
great value to me in my further 
work at CIT. By coming in con
tact with all the organizations that 
used the Union for their meetings 
and social affairs, I became well ac
quainted with and interested in all 
the traditions and customs of the 
school.
When Dean Greens failing health 
prohibited her to continue her work 
at school, Mrs. Yon was asked to 
take her place, for one year as Act
ing Dean, and in 1941 officially as 
Assistant Dean of Women. In this 
position she is in charge of all girl 
students of the five schools, directly 
responsible only to Dean Warden.
The Dean has much praise and 
only very few complaints about her 
work. She is perfectly happy here, 
and is touched by the continuous 
tokens of affection students and fac
ulty alike show her. She is doing 
all she can to reciprocate these 
feelings. Beside her work on the 
Administration, she is a very active 
member of several committees 
around school, and chairman of the 
committee for Carnegies men in the 
service. In the latter capacity she 
sees to it that all our alumni in uni
form remain in contact with their
.BBItBEMKmk.
Fort Pitt is the Place
to RentTYPEWRITERS
ALL
MAKES
$3.00 per 
Month
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
. . . Dean Yon
alma mater by sending them the 
TARTAN and frequent personal let
ters. Of course, she also feels re
sponsible for our active students in 
the armed forces, the A. S. T. P.
men, and her one complaint is that 
there is so little contact between 
them and the civilian students.
We all realize that their lack of 
free time and their strict regimenta
tion do not allow very close rela
tions; yet if civilians and soldiers 
alike would make an honest effort, 
much could be improved. The re
cent return of the ROTC Juniors 
will, I believe, bridge the gap to a 
great extent, for these boys will 
have close contact with ASTP boys 
and civilians alike.
Incidentally, it is quite natural 
that Dean Yon is very concerned 
with the boys in the service; her 
own two boys are serving Uncle 
Sam. One is a Lieutenant Com
mander in the Navy Medical Corps, 
the other a Major in the Armored 
Corps, who was just appointed sec
ond in command of his battalion. 
The news had just reached her 
when she was intereviewed, and al
though she tried to belittle her sons 
achievement, one could feel her 
pride and satisfaction.
There is not much more I can 
tell you about me, Dean Yon fin
ished the interview, just repeat 
again and again how much I like 
my work here, and how I appreci
ate everybodys affection ...
Let's go to
ISALY'S
MILK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM COINiSS
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Allies
Brad Hunt And Band 
Draw ASTP, Civilians, 
Soldiers to Co. B Dance
The fall social season started in 
earnest Friday night with the Com
pany B All Campus dance. Brad 
Hunt did the honors as bandmaster, 
and turned in a very smooth job. 
Fight for the Glory and Army 
Air Corps got a big hand, as might 
be expected. The dance also lived 
up to expectation on the absence of 
civilians, who were outnumbered 
about four to one. The soldiers for 
the most part had dates, and the 
stags who showed up in several in
stances took a look and left.
The crowd thinned in the middle 
of the evening to go over to the 
mobile canteen for doughnuts and 
coffee, and never came back up to 
normal. Although some folks 
thought one-thirty was just too late 
for the ten-thirty crowd, one girl 
had a different idea. Lets leave. 
Who wants to dance on a night like 
this?
The civilians as a rule held onto 
their girls pretty tightly, but when a 
few couples tried skating steps on 
the well glazed floor the holding on 
became more than just figurative. 
Two or three sailors were present, 
including one former Techite. Quite 
a number of requests were played, 
and the orchestra got right into the 
spirit of the thing. During the last 
few numbers, when the crowd was 
rather thin and a few girls were 
dancing with their shoes off (those 
ASTP clogs are heavy, arent they?) 
the girl vocalist did her best to dis
tract the male singer in the middle 
of a number, but he resigned him
self to the show must go on.
The woolen outfits looked good, 
but the heat wasnt as inviting. One 
AST said, Dont know what my 
neck will be like after an evening 
with one of these collars. By the 
time to go, most of those who had 
stayed through the evening forgot 
all about ten-thirty bedtimes and 
were sorry the dance had to break 
up. The civilians, not troubled by 
bedtimes, were just as sorry.
^aieA. 9*i Khaki . .
Again we have word of two new 
graduates flying for the Army.
Cadet Lucas E. Finney, of Mc
Keesport, and Cadet John A. DeLuca, of Pittsburgh, will soon grad
uate from the Army Air Forces Ad
vanced Flying School at Stockton 
Field, California, and be placed on 
active duty with the Army Air 
Forces.
Before entering the Advanced 
School, both cadets received 
eighteen weeks of basic and primary 
training at Sequia Field, Visalia, 
California, and Minter Field, Bak
ers Field, California.
L AUTER'S 
DRESS SHOP
66Smart Campus Fashions9
3602 FORBES STREET
SoldieM. fytedic
C wens Tea Dance 
Goes Over Big
The large exhibition room didnt 
look like itself Saturday afternoon. 
For that matter, neither did the hall 
in Fine Arts. Red crepe paper was 
draped over everything, forming a 
fence to close off the area. The 
statue of the village smithy, or a 
steel worker, or somebody sported a 
red ribbon around its neck and a 
fatigue hat. The pictures were off 
the east wall, which assumed a 
characteristic building-block ap
pearance. Dance wax made the floor 
look as though plaster had fallen 
from the ceiling. The only remnant 
of the former use of the room was 
a harp case in the corner.
Some time around three-fifteen 
the PA man arrived, and a couple of 
CWENs were soon dancing with 
each other to a test record. The 
omnipresent V and Buy War 
Bonds made their apearance, and 
everything was set to go. ASTs 
drifted in, and civilians soon fol
lowed.
continued on page 6
tf-iue. IfeaAA. /(joCarnegie Tech Gets 
New Student Union
We are ready again for our week
ly look into the past . . . we probe
. . . October 5th, 1943 . . . 1942
. . . 1941 . . . 1940 . . . 1939 . . .
October 5th, 1938 . . . We just
won the first football game of the 
season . . . trounced Davis-Elkins
49 to 0 . . . and everyone looks 
ahead with confidence . . . the team 
is going to Springfield next week to 
take up Wittenberg . . . big score is 
expected ... In the shadow of 
their big brothers, the plebe gridders are practicing for their games 
with Pitt Frosh and West Virginia 
frosh.
October 5th, 1938 . . . the pub
licationsthe Tartan, the Technical, 
the Scottie, the Thistle, and the 
Dorm Bagpiperare moving into of
fices in the just acquired Schiller 
Building . . . the building will be 
named the Carnegie Union and will 
be headquarters for all student ac
tivities ... A new publication has 
been added ... Pi Delta Epsilon, 
journalistic honorary, will publish 
a literary magazine, Carnegie Bard
October 5th, 1938 . . . Things are 
happening . . . the Drama Depart
ment will open their season with 
Kaufman-Harts Merrily We Roll 
Along in three weeks . . . play re
quires nine changes of sets . . . 
Maggie Murph and Fine Arts Stu
dent Council officers will be elected 
Tuesday . . . Students complain 
about the unlikeness of their ath
letic cards photographies . . . 
Times have changed: Bell Tele
phone urges for more long distance 
calls . . .
1938 ... 9 ... 40 ... 1 .. .
2 . . . 1943 . . . We are back.
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
48485348235353535353482348532323
48485348235353535353485323532353

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1943THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
OnfjiniUf. On A Pinpoint
Dramat Discovers The Engineer; 
Play Acting And Calculus Clash
By Lucille
Though I approve of the life of 
the dramat, the courses, plays, and 
blue jeans, I have discovered that 
some engineers do not. That im
presses me, because the joi de vivre 
of drama students should not evoke 
nasty looks and phrases from any
one.
What is it that engineers take or 
do that makes them so unsmiling 
about play acting and play actors? 
That puzzled me considerably until 
last week, when I found outin one 
small nutshell of a word, I found 
out.
By most curious chance, three 
hours of my workaday week are de
voted to Developing Modern Social 
Ideas. Being a babe with modern 
social ideas, I like the class and lis
ten intently to every syllable Mr. 
Chapman pronounces. Last week, 
though, a group of young engineers 
took over and discussed infinity.
I ask you, how can anyone possi
bly appreciate beers and singing at 
the Greeks, ice cream cones in class, 
odd combinations of clothing, and 
the Round Table Room when his 
entire waking hours are devoted to 
dividing things by zero and get
ting monstrous answers?
That is the secret of the sad en
gineers. When I was a child, taking 
arithmetic and math, zero times 
two was zero, and zero divided by 
two was zero also. I thought this 
both logical and proper. But dur
ing the Development of Modern So
cial Ideas, I found that when one 
gets past arithmetic and math into
,eJz! *7he Jltiflvti!
Staff Terrorized As 
Industries Blacks Out
Some people wake up screaming 
the Tartan shrieks going to bed. 
Heres why and how: its Friday, 
late at night. The faithfuljust a 
euphemism for those out for extra 
creditwere still busily typing and 
editing and chattering, unaware of 
impending danger, while the clock 
ticked and ticked . . . just like a 
Hitchcock setting. Little did they 
know, that nearby, in the shadowy 
basement, a man was lurking, wait
ing, his eyes on the clock, his hand 
poised for the deed . . .
Then it happened. The two men 
present shrieked, the women just 
ran . . . for with the stroke of mid
night the lights, those springs of 
hope and comfort and electric bills, 
went out . . . darkness. No emer
gency lights, flashlights, or any lights 
at alljust utter darkness.
After a few minutes of inferno the 
unfortunate males picked them
selves up, the ladies straightened 
1 their skirts, and the exodus began. 
Step by step a column of jittery 
journalists groped their way through 
the labyrinth of Industries Hall, 
down the stairs, against many cor
ners, and finally out on the cut. Such 
fun!
Incidentally, we need more volun
teers for nightwork in the Tartan 
office.
Schulberg
Mathematics (with a capital M) and 
calculus, this simple syllogism will 
not serve; that zero becomes a 
number so large that all the black
boards at Tech couldnt half hold 
it. Zero is not nothing, plain and 
simple. It is infinity, neverending 
figures, going on and on and on and 
definitely not simple.
Personally, to measure the 
straight length of a curve, I would 
draw the curve on a clean sheet of 
paper, trace it with a piece of string, 
hold the string firmly in one hand 
and one set of teeth ,and measure it 
with a ruler. I find this infinitely 
easier, or, I might say, ever so much 
more finite.
But the moral connected with this 
treatise is not what 1', in sane mind, 
would do. It regards the effect of a 
life devoted to such matters. No 
wonder the engineers dont know 
whats going on. Thats brutal but 
conclusive, and the Carnegie TAR
TAN editors are in no way responsi
ble for my opinion.
I would much sooner argue about 
the number of angels who could 
boogie-woogie it on the point of a 
pin.
Trinks Honored ...
continued from page 1 
sor Trinks became the first depart
ment head of mechanical engineer
ing at Carnegie Tech. Since that 
time besides becoming a member of 
honoraries, Professor Trinks has act
ed as a consulting engineer and 
written several engineering books.
A few examples of Trinksology 
are: What we need is less math, 
but more of it. A college degree 
seldom hurts a man if hes willing 
to learn something after gradua
tion. From the very beginning 
mans progress has been the result 
of his desire to live beyond his in
come.
Carnegie To Sponsor .
Continued from page 1 
ever, all trainees are subject to call 
to other active duty at all times. 
ASTP students are expected to re
ceive college credits for their work.
Some of the major fields of study 
for ASTP trainees, and the branches 
of service to which some of them 
lead, are as follows: engineers of all 
types, doctors, psychologists, lin
guists, physicists, mathematicians, 
and foreign area administrators.
The Qualifying Test for Civilians, 
given each spring and fall, makes it 
possible for men to become ear
marked for the ASTP in advance. 
Those who receive satisfactory 
scores are instructed to present their 
qualifying notices to Army authori
ties after induction. These candi
dates are then sent to special Army 
training stations for their thirteen 
weeks of basic military trailing, 
after which, if qualified, they are as
signed to the ASTP. An unsatisfac
tory score on this test does not ex
clude a candidate from being con
sidered for the ASTP, after induc
tion the Army General Classifica
tion Test serves as a further oppor
tunity for eligibility.
The purpose of the Navy program 
is to provide officers for the Navy, 
Marine Corps, and Coast Guard. 
Courses are open for the following 
types of officer candidates: Deck
Officer, Medical Corps, General En
gineering, Civil Engineering, Con
struction Corps, Engineer Special
ists (seven types, Aerology, Supply 
Corps, and Chaplain Corps. A stu
dent with Navy preference who 
qualifies through the test will report 
to the nearest Office of Naval Officer 
Procurement. There he will be in
terviewed and given a physical ex
amination. The quota of students 
will be chosen by regional selection 
committees, each composed of two 
outstanding citizens and a senior 
Naval officer. If selected, the can
didates will be taken into the Navy 
immediately, and will be assigned as 
early as possible to a college under 
Navy contract. Previous to assign
ment to a college, he will be on in
active status, but will be a Navy
enlistee and will be subject to military orders from the Navy only.
The length of time an individual 
student will be in the program will 
depend upon three things: (1) pre
vious college education, if any, (2) 
the type of course for which he is 
qualified and to which he is assign
ed, and (3) his continued demon
stration of adequate scholarship and 
officer-like qualifications.
Students in the program will be 
on active duty, in uniform, and un
der military discipline. Expenses 
will be paid by the Navy, including 
tuition, fees, textbooks, board and 
room, and uniforms. Also V-12 en
listees will receive regular Navy 
pay.
The Qualifying Test, as its name 
suggests, is the first step in the se
lection of men for the college pro
grams of the Army and the Navy. 
The test will be given only on the 
morning of November 9, i943; can
didates who do take the test at that 
time may have no further opportu
nity until the next time the test is 
given, which will probably be in the 
spring of 1944. Each student will be 
notifiedby approximately Decem
ber 20as to whether or not he has 
qualified on the test. However, no 
test scores will be reported either to 
students or to school authorities. 
The test takes two hours, and is di
vided into three parts: the first part 
tests knowledge of the meaning and 
use of words; the second asks ques
tions about scientific matters which 
are of general knowledge; the third 
section consists of a number of prob
lems in mathematics. All questions 
are of the best-answer typein 
which several answers are given for 
each question or problem, from 
which one is to be selected as the 
best or correct one. All answers 
will be indicated by making a cross 
in the appropriate box on a separate 
answer sheet. The test is not a 
speed test, although it is not ex
pected that all students will finish 
all the questions in the time allowed. 
The person who works steadily and 
carefully answering each item to 
the best of his ability will make a 
better score than the one who rushes 
blindly into each section.
Have a Coke=: Come, be blessed and be happy
Coke= Coca-Cola
It's natural for popular names to 
acquire friendly abbreviations. Thats 
why you hear Coca-Cola called Coke.
... from Idaho to Iceland
Have a Gohe'\ says the American soldier in Iceland, and in three 
words he has made a friend. It works in Reykjavic as it does in 
Rochester. Round the globe Coca-Cola stands for the pause that re
fresheshas become the ice-breaker between kindly-minded strangers.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY 
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY, PITTSBURGH, PA.global 
high-sign
.O 1943 Th* C-C <X.

---------------------------------------------------

6THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1943
Mrs. Yon Announces 
Prospective Pledges 
In M.M.C.C. Sororities
After one and a half weeks of in
tensive rushing of sophomores and 
transfers in Margaret Morrison, the 
three M. M. C. C. sororities have 
submitted their list of pledges. Dur
ing the Silence Period which ended 
at 9:30 a. m. Tuesday, September 2,8, 
the sororities submitted their invi
tations to Mrs. Yon who distributed 
the notices to the prospective 
pledges.
The list of pledges is as follows: 
Alpha Theta Sigma
Bates, Biesecker, Davis, Dyck, 
Flanagan, Ford, Gemmell, Germy, 
Hawk, Hecht, Hussey, Mears, Murrer, Ott, Reynolds, Robb, Romain, 
Sant, Schwerha, Shupp, Simpson, 
Squitieri, Stabile, Stewart, Strandberg, Vincent, Wilson.
Gamma Phi Sigma
Ash, Asplund, Chingos, Creelman, Enslin, Garber, Garland, 
Hirshman, Kneedler, Loeffler, MacEachem, Markle, Norris, Powell, 
Schernitzauer, Swaney, Zimmer
man.
Kappa Phi Delta
Atkinson, Barclay, Branagan, 
Christian, Clark, Dunn, Graham, 
Hartman, Hoffman, Jaffurs, Jahn, 
Kane, Kelsey, MacNeill, Murray, 
Nicely, Sunseri, Sweeney, Tennant.
Civil Service Asks For 
Laboratory Mechanics
The Civil Service Commission has 
just announced that it is looking for 
Laboratory Mechanics for the Na
tional Bureau of Standards in Wash
ington, D. C. They are needed to do 
work connected with the construc
tion, installation, assembly, main
tenance, repair, and operation of 
various types of equipment. The 
positions pay from $1,752 to $2,798 a 
year (including overtime) and are 
open to anyone over eighteen years 
of age with a minimum of six 
months mechanical experience in 
the fields of electronics, machine 
shop, automotive, or electrical 
equipment, or an aopropriate War 
Training course. For the higher 
paying positions, additional train
ing is required. No written test is 
necessary.
The Bureau of Standards is one of 
the principal research and testing 
laboratories of the government. In 
normal times, it developes working 
standards of measurement, perform
ance, and practice used in science, 
engineering, and industry. The re
quirements of war agencies and in
dustry have brought problems of 
great variety to the Bureau ,includ
ing projects of a secret and con
fidential nature.
Announcements and application 
forms may be secured from first-and 
second-class post offices, Civil Serv
ice Regional Offices, and from the 
Commission in Washington, D. C.
Chapel Notice
According to latest reports issued 
by CWCA, the next chapel service on 
October 12 will be sponsored by the 
students of Catholic faith.
Soldiers Frolic . . .
continued from page 4
Things perked merrily along with 
the soldier-civilian ratio about four 
to one until a Charley Barnet record 
came up. A few couples did a little 
jitter-bugging, but response was lim
ited. Two Xavier Cugat records 
cleared the floor except for a few 
venturesome souls with bent knees 
and raised chins. One couple man
aged it despite the fellows carrying 
a minicam over his shoulder and the 
girls wraping the flash unit around 
his neck.
The most obvious civilian present 
was the PA mans assistant, a fel
low in a felt hat brim with buttons, 
garterless sox, a shirt with no tie, a 
vest with no coat, and rolled sleeves.
The soldiers really get service. 
One of the angels in red and grey 
pulled off a beautiful introduction, 
This is Isabel, this is Helen. Get 
acquainted and have some fun. The 
manpower shortage became acute in 
the two Paul - Jones - garn - march 
dances. The first showed eighteen 
civilians and sixty-six ASTs with 
maybe two dozen girls left over. 
Next time it was thirty-five to two 
with even more lone girls. There 
were more civilians there, maybe 
the Army is just used to having 
women thrown at them. As one 
AST said, Here I come, you lucky 
girls. Another, five eight, asked, 
Want to try a shorty? Its not all 
peaches and cream, even for the 
Army. Whatcha doing sitting out? 
Shes busy.
One girl said to another, Ill stand 
up and yell Harry and probably 
get a thousand answers. The next 
time I find a man Ill get him 
ALONE. The situation prompted 
one lass to heave a sigh and sug
gest Its the burlesque show for 
us after this.
Some people will do anything for 
the cause of jive. One black velvet 
how was martyred to cutting a rug, 
and an AST let a pocket comb go 
by the boards for the same reason. 
One couple danced around munch
ing pretzel sticks, and another 
bounced back and forth in place 
while the girl chatted with another 
fellow.
After the announcement this is 
the last dance of the evening one 
Techite made the brilliant comment 
After this dance I go home. One 
Oclock Jump was pretty violent 
for a concluding number, and a few 
dirges were added to close the af
ternoon. The gang seemed to have a 
good time; one AST said, They 
ought to have more of these dances. 
The girls seem to want to meet the 
fellows, but they dont get much 
chance. Its a new kind of girl for 
the boys, theyre afraid to wolf 
them. One of the CWENs, who 
seemed to have something to do 
with running the affair, said, Guess 
thats all, the chaperons seem to 
have left. A dancer beside her 
came back with, Were there chap
erons?
The woolens werent such a good 
bet for hep cats. They looked pretty 
soaked afterwards. Date making, 
thick and fast, formed the finale. 
Girls arent everything to Tech men, 
though. After the ball was over 
they asked, What was the score? 
16-0 Not bad, why couldnt they 
get two more points. I lost fifty 
cents.
Determined Tech Tartans 
Hold Strong Rochester, 16-0
The Tartans, though light and in
experienced, held a powerful Ro
chester team to the relatively low 
score of 16-0. The skibos fought 
tirelessly before a crowd of 5,500, 
mostly Yellow Jacket rooters, to 
stave off Rochesters repeated goal 
line drives.
We were completely outclassed, 
moving into Rochesters teritory on
ly twice during the entire game. 
Rochester gained 11 first downs to 
our six and surged forward for 219 
yards to our hard-won 52 yards.
The Yellow Jackets gained their 
sixteen points through two touch
downs and two safeties. The first 
touchdown and the first safety were 
scored in the second quarter. The 
second touchdown came in the third 
quarter and a final safety was scored 
in the last period. The winners 
dominated the game, but our mighty 
defense, sparked by the line, pre
vented Rochester from piling up the 
score, as has been done to Pitt twice 
in succession by teams not much 
more powerful than Rochester.
During the first half the Yellow 
Jackets kept the ball in our terri
tory by dint of their almost over
whelming power. Carnegie did not 
once have the ball in enemy terri
tory during the first half.
Sutch and Smolin stood out in the 
game; Sutch for his driving running 
and Smolin for his tricky ball tot
ing. In spite of these two assets, 
Rochester Was unable to score until 
the second period. Just before the 
end of the first period, the Yellow 
Jackets started a drive from Car
negies 34-yard line. A bad break 
for the Tartans came when George 
Sutch threw a long pass to end Ray 
Wells who ran to Carnegies 18. 
Tech held that line and gained the 
ball on downs ,temporarily averting 
a Rochester score. The Yellow Jack
ets continued their attack after Gail 
Litton punted out of danger. Sutch 
and Smoli nalternated, carrying the 
ball to our one-yard line and record
ing three consecutive first downs as 
the first quarter ended.
The Tartans made a dogged goal 
line stand on the one-yard line at 
the start of the second quarter 
against a team whose average 
weight per man was twenty pounds 
greater than their own. They held 
against everything Rochester could 
throw at them for three downs, tak
ing the ball away from Rochester. 
However, Gail Litton was trapped
for a safety by three Rochester men 
as a result of a too-high pass from 
center.
With the ball on the Carnegie 29- 
yard stripe, Gullback Robinson 
threw a pass to end Odge Cole, for 
a gain of 26 yards on the play. Rob
inson plunged over on two plays. 
End Barney Werner failed to con
vert for the extra point. The half 
ended with the score 8-0 and the ball 
an the Carnegie 26.
Mai Conners set up Rochesters 
second touchdown in the third quar
ter by making a 26-yard end run to 
put the ball on Techs 14-yard line 
where he was pushed out of bounds 
by center Bud Steele. Three plays 
later Sutch passed to Wells for the 
touchdown. Techs line charged 
hard to block Sutchs placement 
kick.
Rochester grabbed her final two 
points when Lornie Weeks, a guard, 
broke through to block Littons punt 
from our 20-yard line, causing the 
ball to roll into the end zone for an 
automatic safety.
The Tartans, starting a fighting 
lase-minute rally, moved into Ro
chesters territory for the first time 
in the last quarter. John Macintosh, 
carrying the ball, sparkled the Skibo drive. Although the Tartans 
fought doggedly, they were never 
able to penetrate- within striking 
distance of the Yellow Jacket goal.
Standouts for the Tartans were 
Gail Litton and Dave Crump in the 
line and John Macintosh in the 
backfield.
Army-Civilian Bowling 
To Begin On Sat., Nov. 6
The Intramural Board, after con
sultation with various representa
tives from the Army, has decided to 
open Intramural Bowling competi
tion to both Army and Civilian 
teams. Matches will be played on 
Saturday afternoons at the Univer
sity Recreation alleys.
Due to the necessity of cutting 
down the number of entries, each 
company of AST boys was limited 
to two teams, giving a maximum 
number of ten army teams with a 
possibility of two more from the 
men who returned to Tech from 
Belvoir last week. It has not as yet 
been decided whether or not these 
men will be allowed to play for or
ganizations to which they belonged 
before.
continued on page 1, col. 1

---------------------------------------------------

Tau Delts Triumph, 
Win 5 Games Straight
The intramural football season 
got underway with a bang, or rather 
with a thud on Monday, September 
20th. By the end of the Week the 
Tau Dalts loomed as the champion
ship team with three wins and no 
defeats. The remaining teams in the 
league seemed pretty evenly match
ed, but it was still too early to do 
any predicting.
Monday a fighting Delta Upsilon 
team eked out a close victory over 
the slower, but more powerful Beta 
Sigs. The final score was 7-6. The 
Tau Delts, who seem to have had 
much practice, ran circles around 
the Kappa Sigs to the tune of 23-1. 
The Independents walloped the Ju
nior Chemical Engineers 23-2, being 
the second team to score 23 points 
the first day.
On Tuesday the games were more 
evenly matched; all teams scored at 
least one touchdown. A deceptive 
Theta Xi team captained by Dan 
Kahl outsmarted the Delta Tau 
Delts to win 16-8. Citcom fought 
their way to victory over a weak 
Beta Theta Pi team. The final score 
was 17-10. A beefy Sigma Alpha 
Epsilon team, with two players 
weighing near two hundred pounds, 
battered the determined Independ
ents 21-13.
Wednesday saw the Kappa Sigs 
decisively defeat the outplayed Ju
nior Chems 11-8. The Delta Tau 
Delts and the Beta Theta Pis, both 
smarting from defeats the previous 
day, fought a bitter battle resulting 
in a 9-9 deadlock. The Tau Delts 
emerged victorious over the Sigma 
Alpha Epsilon team in another close 
and hard fought battle. The 11-10 
final score tells the story.
On Thursday the Independents 
upset the Citcom team by the one
sided score of 18-4. The Junior 
Chems continued their unbroken 
Rhos defeated Beta Theta Pi in an 
evenly matched, low-scoring game 
6-3.
The week ended Friday with the 
SAEs scoring a victory over the 
Delts 16-0. The Tau Delts ran up 
eleven points while holding the 
DUs scoreless. The Citcom Clan 
marked up another game in the win 
column as they humbled the TXs 
18-4.
During the second week of this 
great gridiron classic, 11 games were 
played.
The week opened with a greatly 
improved Kappa Sig team outplay
ing TX to win by the slim margin 
or one point score 7-6. The DUs 
racked up another victory when 
they beat Beta Theta Pi 9-3. The 
SAEs rode to victory 21-5 over the 
Beta Sigma Rhos.
Tuesday the Delts went down be
fore the galloping Tau Delts 4-22, 
and the Citcom Clan nosed out the 
Junior Chems 34-1.
Wednesday ^ Theta Xi came back 
from their defeat on Monday to win 
over the Independents by a two 
point margin 14-12. _______
Army-Civilian ...
continued from page 6
Civilian teams will be asked to 
present entrjr blanks within the 
next twq weeks.
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 8, 1043THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
Thursday the Tau Delts made 
themselves look like the most prom
ising team for championship honors 
by winning their fifth straight game. 
The Beta Theta Pi team were the 
victims by a 33-12 score. The Cit
com Clan defeated the DUs, and 
the Junior Chems refused to let the 
SAEs break their record and went 
down to defeat before them 16-0.
Friday the Kappa Sigs defeated 
the strong Independent team 11-6. 
Citcom loomed large as a threat to 
the championship by winning their 
fifth game. The victory was over 
Theta Xi by a 34-13 score.
The games of Beta Sigma Rho 
were cancelled over the Jewish New 
Year.
The second week of the campaign 
ended with the team standing much 
the same as at the end of the first 
week. Here are the results:
Team
Tau Delts ...................... 5
Citcom .......................... 5
SAE ......................
Kappa Sigma ..............3
DU ........................
TX ........................
Independents .............. 2
Beta Sigma Rho .
Beta Theta Pi..............0
Delta Tau Delta.......... 0
Jr. Chem. Eng. .
*One game tied.
And so this contest goes into its 
third glorious week. Who knows 
what the future will bringthe Ju
nior Chem. Engineers might win a 
game.
Won Lost Av.
50 1.000
5l.833
4i.800
3i.750
32.600
?,2.500
?,3.400
12.333
04*.000
n4*.000
05.000
The Sports Editors 
Opinion On The Game
Our football team has shown itself 
to have the true Tech fighting spirit. 
Last Saturday they were battered 
for sixty long, tedious minutes by 
one of the more powerful teams in 
the East, whose members are far 
out of the Tartans class in weight, 
speed, and experience. One Yellow 
Jack, Robinson, had played four 
years of high school ball, one year 
at prep school, three years at col
lege, and three years as a pro. His 
team mates were not far behind him 
in experience, while many out
weighed him.
Against this tidal wave of beef 
and brawn, the Tartans held man
fully, allowing only sixteen points 
to be scored, and these were set up 
by passes. This record compared 
favorably to Pitts two defeats of 
41-0 and 40-0. All over the country, 
colleges without V-12 or marines 
students have been repeatedly 
swamped by colleges with the V-12 
or marine material. This fact could 
have been a great psychological 
stumbling block to the Skibos. But 
they paid no attention to the fact 
that they were supposed to be shel
lacked and fought all the way.
In the first part of the second 
quarter, Rochester surged to our IV2 
yard line, only to lose the ball on 
downs a sour team forced them to a 
standstill. In the last period, the 
Tartans, though wearied and bruis
ed, rallied and drove for the first 
time into enemy territory, but the 
odds were too great against them, 
and they were forced back.
The great advantage in weight 
had another effect on the Tartans. 
Three first-string Tartans were seri
ously injured. Guard Ben Balklarz 
is in the Presbyterian Hospital with 
a bad ankle, John Lindberg has a 
broken nose, and Irwin Breier sus
tained a chest injury as a result of 
Saturdays game. In spite of these 
crippling injuries, the Skibos were 
undaunted.
It can now be clearly seen that 
we have an unusual team, in spite 
of the low expectations we had a 
week ago. A team as spunky as ours 
deserves the best support we can 
give it. So lets all turn out for the 
pep rallies and lets have one hun
dred per cent attendance at the Le
high game, and dont be afraid to do 
a little yelling at the game.
MeetitUf
Call For Basketball 
Candidates Posted
The basketball season is about to 
get underway. Will all those inter
ested please attend a meeting with 
Mr. Max Hannum on Thursday of 
this week at 5 P.M. in the Athletic 
Office. Come on, all would-be bas
ketball players, lets show the world 
that we arent just a bunch of studyworn engineers as has been claimed.
GOSHON THE FRITZ 
AGAIN! BET I CANT GET A 
NEW PEN. EVEN REPAIR 
PARTS ARE SCARCE!
WHY DONT YOU GET HEP 
TO PARKER QUINK, JIMMY? 
IT HAS SQLV-X IN IT TO
PROTECT METAL AND RUBBER 
AND KEEPS PENS CLEAN!
Emntain pens rationed !
Z) y&tckfi&n zcs, Qun& zott4o&-%/
DEDUCED drastically by 
^ government order, firstchoice brands of fountain pens 
are becoming scarce. Repair 
parts, too, are war casualties!
So give your pen real war
time protection with brilliant, 
smooth-writing Parker Quink, 
containing solv-x.
Solv-x ends most pen trou
bles by removing the causes.
It flushes away the gum and 
sediment left by inferior inks. 
It prevents the corrosion of 
metal parts and deterioration 
of rubber caused by highly 
acid inks.
Parker Quink with solv-x is 
ideal for steel pens, too! The 
Parker Pen Company, Janes
ville, Wisconsin, and Toronto, 
Canada.
FOR V     MAIL "Micro-film Black." New Parker Quink in "Micro-film 
Black photographs perfectly! Quink comes in 7 permanent colors: Micro-film 
Black, Blue-Black, Royal Blue, Green, Violet, Brown, Red. 2 washable colors: 
Black, Blue, IH, 2H and up.
MAKE YOUR DOLLARS FIGHT--BUY WAR BONDS NOWI
PARKER Quink
THE ONLY INK CONTAINING SOLV-X
SOLV-X
n ev&i
of/turfecfateno n 5 uxup/
1. Protects rubber ... lengthens the 
life of sac or diaphragm.
2. -Dissolves sediment and gum left 
by other inks. Cleans your pen as 
It writes.
3. Prevents clogging of feed.
4. Safeguards base metal parts...
prevents corrosion.
^ 5. Assures quick
starting and even 
flow.
Opr. 1943 by The Ptrker an Comp*-ay

---------------------------------------------------

8THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1943OThe Carnegie ]plaid
Students of Evening School 
Sat., Oct. 9 Is Your Chance 
To Choose College Officers 
At Combined Election Party 
In The Recreation Hall M. M. 
Bring Your Registration Card
Prof. Trinks Feted 
At Testimonial
On June 30, 1943, after thirtyeight years faithful and outstand
ing service, Professor Willibald 
Trinks retired from his position as 
Professor and Head of the Depart
ment of Mechanical Engineering of 
the Carnegie Institute of Technol
ogyLast Friday, October 1, a testi
monial dinner was tendered Profes
sor Trinks at the University Club in 
Oakland, Pittsburgh. The dinner 
was attended by graduates of the 
Mechanical Engineering Depart
ment, members of the faculty, a 
member of the Board of Trustees, 
President Doherty and his entire 
personnel including Dr. Jones, Di
rector of the College of Engineering.
Out of the more than 100 in at
tendance, twelve were graduates of 
the evening school, namely: J.
Dougherty  11, W. B. Skinkle  
17, H. L. Spencer20, R. F. Fisch
er*35, T. F. Hengstenberg35, L. 
Conway32, T. J. Werner37, W. 
Schneider40, C. H. Good42, J. 
Fisher42, E. F. Harchelroad43, 
and E. A. Macha43. It might also 
be added that all classes, except one; 
from 1909 to 1945 were represented.
The following is a thumbnail 
sketch of Professor Trinks career: 
StartBerlin, Germany, 1874; M. 
E. M. SC. Charlottenburg, 1897; ap
prentice, Dortmund, Germany, 1897- 
99; Cramps Shipyard Co., April-October, 1899; Wouthwark Foundry, 
October, 1988January, 1901; W. E. 
and Mfg. Co., January, 1901April, 
1902; Wm. Todd Co., May, 1902 
September, 1905; Carnegie Institute 
of Technology, 1905-1942; A. S. M. 
E. War Work directed by Ordnance
yiCTORY 
BUY
UNITED 
STATES
, WAR
4^dONDS
AND
STAMPS
Stephen Marcinizyn 
Retiring President 
Now Council Advisor
Steve Marcinizyn, Student Coun
cils retiring president, now pro
gresses to the newly inaugurated 
position of Council Advisor . . . 
This year marks Steves eleventh 
year on the campus and he has been
New Scholarship 
Honors Trinks
Three cheers for E. F. Harchel
road, 43 Mechanical Engineer grad
uate of Evening School, who at a 
testimonial dinner last Friday es
tablished, with a gift of $100, an 
Evening School Scholarship in hon
or of and named for Professor 
Trinks. Professor Trinks has long 
been an advocate of Evening School 
programs, and it seems especially 
fitting that he should be so honored.
Department, U. S. A., 1942-43; con
sulting engineer for Jones & Laughlin Steel Co. and Mest Machine Co.; 
director of National Ind. Pub. Co.; 
bookss Governors, Industrial Fur
naces (Vol. ) 1, Industrial Furnaces 
(Vol. II), Roll Pass Design; socie
ties: Tau Beta Pi, Pi Tau Sigma, 
Sigma Xi, A. S. M. E., A. S. Military 
E., S. P. E. E., E. S. W. P., S. A. E., 
A. I. I. S. E.; recreation: work; hob
by: work.
A bound volume containing testi
monial letters from former students 
was presented him by W. B. Skinkle, 
evening school class of 1917.
All of us will forever remember 
Professor Trinks undying efforts to
wards the evening school. Anyone 
who has attended the Engineers 
banquets can well recall the one at 
which he was toastmaster and the 
one at which he described the eve
ning schoolpast, present, and fu
ture.
The most famous paragraph in the 
book of Trinksology is the follow
ing: In college, if a man is right 
85% of the time, he gets a B grade 
and may even be on the honor roll. 
In industry, if a man i swrong 15% 
of the time, he gets fired.
Professor T. G. Estep, Acting 
Head of the Department of Mechan
ical Engineering, deserves a great 
big hand on the wonderful job he 
performed in making this affair the 
huge succes it was.
The Carnegie Plaid
Editor
Nancy E. Lewis 
News Editor
Joseph Rymar
Page edited by Evening School Students of Carnegie Institute of Technology. All views or opinions expressed in editorial column are not necessarily endorsed by the Editorial Board of the Day 
School staff.
StaffGeorge Riffle Charles ColyerAlbert C. Flanders John HundertmarkCaroline Noll Peggy WilhelmBill McKelvey S. W. Marcinizyn
a member of Council since 1937 
. . . A graduate of Wilkinsburg 
High in 1933, since registering at 
Tech he has spent two years in Arts, 
one in Industries and seven in Me
chanical Engineering . . . Has had 
vast experience officiating at stu
dent affairs having at one time or 
another been president, vice-president and treasurer of Evening Col
lege of Engineering and he also 
served twice as president of Stu
dent Council . . . He is a member 
of Nu Sigma Alpha, Sigma Delta 
Phi and Pi Delta Epsilon. . . . Off 
hours he likes to play golf and 
he and his wife have spent many 
hours working in their victory gar
den ... Is looking forward to ob
serving his first wedding anniver
sary on November tenth and he 
makes no secret of the fact that hes 
still in love . . . Council will un
doubtedly benefit greatly by having 
Steve as an advisor because under 
his able guidance, as president, 
rapid strides were made toward the 
efficient and economical manage
ment of its affairs.
*7 *7)4e C'JUtoA.
Dear Editor, .
Come Wednesdays and I go swim
mingmen or no men! Now Im 
not greedy for I am only too glad to 
share the pool with any of these 
nice people I see around. Last year 
if I took my sister or my girl friend, 
there were two people in swimming, 
otherwise I was all by my lonesome. 
One thing I cant understand is why 
people will hand out good money 
for the privilege of using these fa
cilities, and then not take advantage 
of them during the school year.
Therefore, I request that you no
tify all our guys and gals about the 
wonderful pool we have here at C.
I. T. and see if you can get me some 
company on Wednesday nights be
tween 7 and 10:30. I dont want to 
be alonethats Garbos story!
One hilarious time at the Machas 
last Saturdaybetween Polkas and 
Square Dances its a miracle if the 
house is still standingwonder of 
wonders, Martha can cook and good, 
too (and this is one time you dont 
have to pay me for saying it, Mart.)
. . . John Groll is our latest dance 
enthusiast  after only one lesson 
from Madame hes really in the 
grove, I mean groove . . . George 
Riffle is now a Voice Studentwoo! 
woo!wonder what the attraction 
isor should I say who is? . . . 
Mitzie Kitchen (so help me, thats 
her name) is now a Cardinalafter 
only a few mistakes and a few bar
rels of beer (I might be exaggerat
ing a little  on the mistakes of 
course) . . . Harold Park is, in his 
spare moments, a poet, no lessthe 
fellas seem to enjoy those little con
fessions at recess . . . Wonder 
where Myra Weiner spends her Fri
day evenings? . . . Grace Murphy 
has been kept quite busy entertain
ing soldierslucky gal . . . Lus
cious blonde with Jim ODonnell 
tother nightseems the gals at the 
office think hes a bit of alright, too 
. . . What is this rumor we hear 
about John Costellano  surely he 
didnt go off to the wars without 
saying goodbye . . . Bill Kearns is 
waiting for his draft board to make 
up its mindlooks as tho civilians 
will soon be a think of the past . . . 
Say fellows, we understand Mar
jorie Hoe is available for Saturday 
evening  for further information 
consult Mr. Anthony . . . Latest re
cruit is Curt Barber and after our 
going to all that trouble to gather 
up dependents, he decides to give 
the Army a try . . . Hope that 
sartin bug thats been biting so 
many married men at Westinghouse 
doesnt take a sudden liking for any 
of our gangwe cant afford to have 
of the fellows worrying this fall 
. . . The Marcinizyns feted Council 
last Sundaybest dinner in a long 
timemeat tooand what portions 
Kerstukos had an appointment 
and had to leave earlysomething 
new! . . .
Certain Alegbra students seem to 
have a GRIPEall such complaints 
should be brought to the attention 
of the Council Presidentmaybe he 
can get you 9 new prof.or is that 
the gripe? f
