The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 37 No. 23CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1943
New Scholarship Fund 
Honors Memory Of 
Dr. John A. Brashear
The late Dr. John A. Brashear, 
celebrated astronomer and scient
ist, and a member of the first board 
of trustees at Carnegie Tech, has 
recently been honored by the estab
lishment of a scholarship fund in 
his name by the board of trustees. 
These scholarships will involve 
possible total individual awards of 
from $1600 to $2800 for the full col
lege program. Their official name 
will be the Brashear National Schol
arships.
Students in secondary schools in 
every state and the District of Co
lumbia will be eligible to compete 
for the scholarships, each of which 
may carry a stipend sufficiently 
large to provide for a substantial 
portion of the recipients college ex
penses.
These scholarships have been es
tablished on a new regional plan. 
This plan will enable students of 
exceptional ability, but with limit
ed financial resources, to enter Car
negie even though they may live in 
districts far removed from Pitts
burgh.
The United States has been di
vided into ten regions. One schol
arship will be awarded in each re
gion every year. The maximum in
dividual scholarship stipend is con
siderably larger in the regions dist
ant from Pittsburgh than it is in the 
adjacent regions. The scholarship 
stipends will be renewed for the 
Sophomore, Junior, and Senior 
years provided the student main
tains a satisfactory academic record.
The recipient of a Brashear Na
tional Scholarship may enroll in 
any one of the undergraduate col
leges of Carnegie Tech.
Vogue Prix de Paris 
Contest Announced
The ninth annual Prix de Paris 
contest, sponsored by Vogue has 
been announced. This competition 
is open to members of the graduat
ing class of 1944 in a United States 
college or university which grants 
a recognized A. B. or B. S. degree. 
The contest will consist of a series 
of four quizzes and an article which 
only those entrants who receive a 
passing mark on the quizzes are 
eligible to submit. This year Vogues 
contest for seniors is enlarging its 
scope.
The 1st two prizes will bring the 
winners to Vogue, where they will 
do fashion reporting or feature 
writing for the period of their 
award. If they are proficient, they 
will stay on permanently. In addi
tion to these two prizes, there will 
be, this year, ten Awards of Merit. 
These new certificates carry with 
them opportunities for jobs on the 
three other Conde Nast publica
tions. They will also entitle the win
ners to job interviews with stores 
and advertising agencies. Five cash 
.prizes of $25 each will be given for 
Continued on page 5
CWCA, Y \1C A To Give 
Thanksgiving Dinner
As a special holiday celebration, 
the CWCA and YMCA will sponsor 
a joint Thanksgiving dinner at the 
Carnegie Union, Monday, November 
22. Dr. Campbell, Assistant Pastor 
of the Shadyside Presbyterian 
Church, will be the speaker at the 
5:00 oclock meeting preceding the 
meal.
According to Janet Armstrong, 
chairman in charge of th dinner, 
tickets will be on sale in the front 
hall of Margaret Morrison during 
the lunch hour all week. As there 
are only a limited number, it is ad
visable to purchase them early. The 
price is 60 cents.
Syria Mosque Plays 
Russian Ballet Next
November 24 and November 25 
will be the dates on which the Bal
let Theatre will, bring its Russian 
Ballet to Pittsburgh for two per
formances with the Pittsburgh 
Symphony Orchestra. These per
formances will be held at the Syria 
Mosque. Five of the six ballet pro
ductions scheduled are new to 
Pittsburgh. The productions sched
uled are: Swan Lake, Dim Lus
tre, Fair at Sorochinsk, for No
vember 24. The following night Ro
meo and Juliet, Three Virgins and 
a Devil, and Mademoiselle Angot 
will be presented.
Louisa Saul Heads New Staff; 
Freshmen On Editorial Board
At senior staff elections last Fri
day, Louisa Saul was elected the 
new Editor-in-chief of the Carnegie 
Tartan with Elaine Levin and Ger
ry Edelson as her co-managing ed
itors. They will succeed T. J. Harmany and Walt Darby, who are 
graduating in December.
The new personnel manager is 
Geri Rascusin, Costume Economics 
major, 44, and newly elected to 
the Editorial Board are: Aron Beck, 
Chem. E., 46 Ex., Jerry Brickman, 
Elec. E., 47, Ex., Si Corwin, Chem.
E., 46, Ex., Walter Ellman, Metal
lurgy, 4,7, Ex., Adeline Herlick, Gen
eral Studies, 46, Ernie Lowenstein, 
Phys., 47, Ex., Marshall Nurenburg, 
Chem. E., 46, Ex., and Albert Perry, 
Elec. E, 47, Ex.
Louisa Saui, new Tartan editor, 
is in the Household' Economics de
partment, graduating in April, 44. 
Louisa is a native of Pittsburgh. She 
is the girl who is responsible for 
the output of the Tartan this se
mester when the staff shortage was 
so acute that each reporter had to 
take turns cleaning up the office 
floor.
Gerry Edelson of the Music De
partment is one of the co-managing 
editors. She was on the Tartan 
since her freshman year, beginning 
as a reporter and working her way 
up successively to her present posiHelen Robinson Is 
Chosen J. P. Queen
At eleven P. M., sharp, during the 
Junior Prom last Saturday night, 
everybody gathered around the rais
ed platform opposite the bandstand 
for the announcement of the Junior
tion after serving on the Editorial 
Board as Junior Editor and Copy 
Editor.
Elaine Levin, the other co-manag
ing editor, is a major in social work. 
As a member of the staff, she is well 
liked and a vivid personality is no 
small contribution to her character.
For the first time in its history, 
the Tartan has had to resort to 
giving the equivalent of senior staff 
positions to freshmen. However, the 
freshmen chosen for positions on the 
editorial board have exhibited such 
ability and interest that it was felt 
that this move would far from lower 
the quality of the paper. Next April 
the freshmen considered may be
come eligible for definite senior 
staff positions, along with the upper
classmen, who share the editorial 
board positions with them.
The editorial board policy was 
tried quite successfully last spring 
when it was found expedient to give 
the juniors experience in the senior 
offices without actually giving them 
definite positions prematurely. 
Those juniors formed the nucleus of 
the senior staff which has put out 
the paper for the past school year.
Mrs. Williams Will 
Speak To M.M.C.C.
On Friday, November 19, the fac
ulty and administration of Mar
garet Morrison will have the pleas
ure of conferring with Mrs. Whiting 
Williams, Director of the Greater 
Cleveland American Red Cross 
Nurses Aid Corps.
In her talk here, Mrs. Williams, 
who is herself an outstanding ex
ample of the college graduate who 
has occupied positions of leadership 
in the nursing profession, will dis
cuss the advantages offered to 
young girls by the new nursing pro
gram. Enlistment in the Cadet 
Nurse Corps, Mrs. Williams will ex
plain to her hearers, carries with it 
a free professional education over 
a maximum period of thirty 
months. Full maintenance, and dis
tinctive street uniforms will be pro
vided the girls in addition to their 
Continued on page 4
Prom Queen. Prior to this the vote 
counting committee counted the 
votes cast at the dance in the man
agers office, while all concerned 
waited with bated breath, or sat in 
the foyer of the ballroom looking as 
unconcerned as possible.
The candidates, Peggy Cole, Rea 
Simon, Cottie Lowry, Helen Robin
son, and Gene Gottlieb, from whom 
the queen was chosen, were called 
up to the platform in that order.
Each of the candidates, as she 
stepped through the tightly packed 
crowd onto the platform, received 
applause from the rest of the party, 
a corsage of gardenias, and a smile 
from Kenny Welch who officiated 
as Master of Ceremonies for the oc
casion. When all the candidates 
were on the platform, Helen Robin
son was announced as Queen and 
the other four girls as her court. An 
ovation followed this announcement 
while the Queen was crowned with 
a wreath of gardenias and presented 
with a jewel case as a gift.
Last Thistle Pictures 
Will Be Taken Nov. 19
The Thistle pictures for the mem
bers of the class of December 43, 
April 44, or August 44 will be taken 
at the Parry Studio, 610 Smithfield 
street. There is no extra charge for 
these pictures which must be taken 
before November 19.
The Thistle may be ordered be
tween twelve and two in the after
noon in the front hall of Adminis
tration- building. As it is coming 
out late in April, those who are 
leaving before this time will receive 
their Thistles by paying $1,75 in
stead of the regular price of $1.50. 
The Thistle will then be sent to any 
specific address.
Be sure to fill out an activities 
card available at the sales table.

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1943
one of the boys
CdUio^i AtoncJuzisi-------------------------------------------------
I guess every departing senior staff leaves the Tartan to its successors 
with a little reluctance and the prayer that it will not be disgraced in years 
to come. Certainly this was true at the time of the last elections, when it 
had been decided that the Tartan would run for the first time throughout 
the summer semester, and with a staff of only three in charge. The draft 
and non-expedited courses had cut the senior staff by more than half, and 
we had to depend on the new crop of freshman reporters for almost every 
story that was printed. Somehow we managed to put out an issue every 
week with the expenditure of gallons of blood, sweat, and printers ink. 
Then our business staff, under Nick Reeds fine supervision, began to roll, 
and started presenting us with eight-page issues every week. It was really 
fun to try to fill them with the meager events of the summer semester. We 
had a great time writing feature articles to put on the front page. Much 
of the credit for our success in sticking it out during that period goes to 
Helena Aronson, who worked long and hard on each issue with no more 
recompense than pride in her excellent work.
We had a grand time when the Army moved into Carnegie Tech. 
We found them a fine group of men, of course, but soon discovered that 
they could not be treated as ordinary students are. Their stories had to 
be approved by the Military Department; they were not to be interfered 
with by heavy extra-curricular demands; their verbal complaints were to 
be regarded as morale-boosters. Once we had acclimated ourselves (we 
admit that this took quite a while!) to these notions, we had no further 
trouble in adjusting the papers policies to suit them. Now everything 
seems to be running smoothly there are some members of the ASTP 
who dont hold the newspaper profession against the Tartan staff.
It hasnt been such a bad year, and we of the senior staff leave rich 
with the experience these run-ins have offered. Our thanks go to people 
like Max Hannum, who realized our problems and were always ready to 
give us a shot of courage in our battered arms, to the students who have 
graciously forgiven our mistakes and still like to get their paper every 
week, and to the members of our faithful staff, who have plugged away 
conscientiously with little reward. Perhaps the best we can say for our
selves is that we leave the Tartan better off than we found it  in com
petent and well-seasoned hands.
Our last word for the future is this: College life has changed greatly 
in the past year, for much of it was lost willingly in obedience to the 
demands of war. There is, however, one phase of it that remains to keep 
it above the high school or knowledge-factory level, and that is participa
tion in college activities. It is up to each one of you to do an extra bit 
that they may not be needlessly sacrificed. The Administration will not 
and probably cannot support them; you alone have the power to decide 
their value, you alone can maintain them. Good luck!
30
Letter To The Editor
There are a number of rumors 
spreading about campus in regard 
to the reasons for the Junior Prom 
Queen Election of November 9, be
ing declared null and void. Unfor
tunately, these rumors have taken 
the form of some rather serious ac
cusations and have caused consid
erable hard feeling between cer
tain parties on campus. The truth 
of the matter is that there is abso
lutely no proof or any basis of 
proof to these accusations. The 
Army-Civilian Activities Council,
which conducted the election ac
cording to the rules set up by the 
C. W. C. A., declared the election 
null and void for the reason that 
the students of the College of Fine 
Arts did not have equal opportun
ity to cast their ballots. This is the 
only reason. Therefore, those stu
dents who have set themselves up 
as rumor-mongers are talking with
out any knowledge of actual facts. 
Alvin Sher,
Election Chairman, 
A. C. A. C.
The easiest way to find out what 
a person is like, short of meeting 
him, is to learn what he has said 
and done, how he lives, and what 
other people think of him. Since 
Walt Darby is always running 
around the publications office do
ing, or not doing, something or 
other, it is easy to pick up dope 
about him. The first thing a per
son notices about him is his size 
They wont even look my way at 
the Greeks. Seeing this down on 
paper, he came up with Look, I go 
to church. What the hell will my 
minister say?
The next feature which strikes 
you is the incessant key-chain twirl
ing. He wears out several a se
mester in studying the loci of the 
ends. There are, however, more sig
nificant sides to his character. He is 
a specialist in parchment-aerodynamics; his latest creation is the 
Darby paper flying wing, which 
sails lazily around the barn Sunday 
afternoons, eating up reams of 
Tartan paper. He has also de
signed a Darby secret bombsight, 
which is just a little more efficient 
than the Norden, but not too much.
By now you may have noted the 
marks of an Aero. Walt is study
ing the shoes as airfoils (walking 
on air) as a result of the job coming 
up when he graduates in December. 
Test flight engineer they call it. It 
seems he sits behind Clark Gable 
and pours over meters, or some
thing. At any rate, hes especially 
thrilled since his ambition always 
was to fly and he took engineering 
because he wanted to design planes 
too. Now its back into the blue, this 
time with body as well as mind.
Walt plays with everythingelec
tricity, aero, art work, radio, photog
raphy, writing, and, in the opinion 
of some, one Margie Ham. One of
Twenty-third Meeting 
November 10, 1943.
The meeting was called to order at 5:20 
p. m.
Present: Messrs. Talabar. Wolff, Peter
son, and Marcus; and Misses Pantazi, 
Schadel, Rial, and Bloom.
COMMITTEE REPORTS 
Special Committee
Miss Schadel reported that all organiza
tions had not yet sent in their lists of 
members eligibile for activities keys. She 
urged that these lists be turned in imme
diately.
Miss Schadel read the constitution and 
by-laws of the Progressive Discussion 
Group. These papers will be on Mr. 
Murphys desk for a week in order that 
members of A. C. A. C. may read them; 
action on them will be taken at the next 
meeting.
Miss Schadel announced the Carnegie 
Day Assembly on Tuesday, November 23. 
Athletics
Mr. Peterson moved'that the minutes 
of the Intramural Board meeting of No
vember 19 be accepted as read.
Motion carried.
Publications.
Mr. Wolff reported his investigation of 
the Tartan publication of two weeks 
ago and said that he would ask the Pub
lications Committee for recommendations 
for improvements.
Social
Miss Rial moved that Tau Delta Phis 
petition for an invitation dance on Janu
ary 15, 1944, be accepted.
Motion carried.
Elections
Miss Pantazi moved that the primary 
election for Junior Prom Queen be de
clared null and void because Arts School
. . . Walt Darby
his Tartan colleagues put it this 
way: You should hear about those 
Darby sessions! Walt answers this 
with, Margie lives downstairs; I 
live upstairs; we both study in the
same room. Let all Tech know 
that. Walts room at first seems 
hardly the place one person, let 
alone two, could study at ease. The 
ceiling light is on a drop-cord and 
to assist in turning it on, the chain 
is anchored over the bed and to a 
floor lamp, which tips over if you 
pull too hard.
His own opinion of his work is 
that he has done absolutely noth
ing, but, in addition to siring the 
articles on Oscar the Fly and 
Schulz, he worked on the Dorm 
Bagpiper and was Techno Wings 
editor of the Technical. Walt be
longs to Pi Delta Epsilon, .which 
bid him for his work on pub
lications. His Aero background pops 
up again with a year and a half in 
IAS. The fellow who first seems a 
high school boy, interested in air
planes, certainly turns out much 
more.
students did not have equal opportunity
to vote.
Motion carried.
A new election is to be held on Friday, 
November 12, from 11:00 a. m. to 2:00 
p. m.
Budgets
In the absence of Mr. Sher, Mr. Murphy 
read the budgets submitted to A. C. A. C. 
Miss Rial moved that the Mortar Board 
budget be accepted.
Motion carried.
Mr. Wolff moved that A. C. A. C. ac
cept the budget of Interhonorary Frater
nity Council for a dinner and theater 
party.
Motion carried.
Mr. Peterson moved that Cwens be al
lowed to put $70 through A. C. A. C. as 
their 1943-44 account, the balance of 
their funds to be frozen in their Student 
Council account.
Motion carried.
NEW BUSINESS
Mr. Wolff moved that A. C. A. C. donate 
$25 to the Community Fund.
Motion carried.
Miss Pantazi moved that the petitions 
of Jean Garland and Bette Dunn for vicepresident of the Sophomore Class in Mar
garet Morrison be accepted.
Motion carried.
Miss Pantazi recommended that it be 
announced in the Tartan that there will 
be a two-minute silence period observed 
on Wednesday, November 17, at 11:00 a. 
m. in honor of students in foreign lands 
and that a letter written by Miles Janouch 
concerning this topic be published.
Adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
SALLY BLOOM, 
Secretary.
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the 
staff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not 
to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Curnegie Institute of Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh, Pa.
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2660 PHONE SCHENLEY 4557
OCPHESENTED FOR NATIONAL AOVERTISINO BY _ 
National Advertising Service, Inc. . (.r. ce ours aCollege Publisher Representative Editor-In-Chief..............................................HI. 7093
420 Madison ave. new York. n. y. Business Manager...............................SC. 8951
TheCarn  Bos gni  Los atOPHCE S Nah DeaOCeECn
Entered as secon-cMss matter In tlie Pittsburgh Post Office under the Act of March 3, 1879. Published weekly during school year, except holidays and examination periods.Subscription Price SI.16 per year.
editor-in-Chief..........................................................................................................T. J. Harmany
business Manager.............................................................. ......................................... Nick Reed
Co-Managing Editors........................................................................Louisa Saul, Walt Darby
Copy Editors...............................................................................Elaine Levin, Gerry Edelson
Sports Editor........................................................................................................... Jim Montague
Assistant Business Manager ................................................................................... Merle Wolff
Personnel Manager............................................................................................... Naomi Ellman
Circulation ......................................................................................................... Chester Feinberg
Photography Editor ............................................................................................... Tom Bokman
Photography Staff............................................................................Dick Bingham, Joe Urban
Sports Staff: John Lindberg, Mike Gingold, John Krummell, Dick ONeill, Al
Neleson, Andy Pepper, Chuck Peterson, Ed Von Halle.
.. ACAC Minutes..

---------------------------------------------------

SellingSears and Roebuck, East Lib
erty, Wednesday, Friday, Saturday, men 
60cwomen 45c.
Running Elevator  St. Margarets 
Hospital, 3 P. M.9 P. M., Saturday and 
Sunday, $2.00 plus dinner and carfare.
Inventories of Motor PartsDecember 
4 and 5, Saturday and Sunday, 65c per 
hour.
Girls
Usher  Buhl Planetarium, 50c per 
hour, any evening.
Sellingat Hornes and Kaufmanns, 
any afternoon, Monday evening, Satur
day, 45c per hour.
Dishwasher (also to carry trays)at 
the Childrens Hospital 4:30-6:00, 45c 
per hour.
On Campus Jobs 
Boys
Substitute waitersfor dormitory, free 
dinner.
Remove screens, wash windows  in 
dormitories, 50c per hour.
plying for the following positions 
should see Mrs. Searle in AH.
Off Campus Jobs 
Boys
Driving jobexperienced driver to 
chauffeur a lady in Schenley Apart
ments.
New York Timeswants a representa
tive on the Tech campus, will pay 6c for 
each Sunday copy sold and iyc for 
each daily issue.
Railroad Mail Servicefor Christmas 
rush, 90-95c an hour.
Sorting of Christmas mailfor Christ
mas rush in Post Office, 8IV2C after six.
Handymanin private home for Sat
urdays, $5.00.
Wash windows and clean wallpaper 
two afternoons a week in a private home 
50c per hour.
Interior Displayat Kaufmanns 5-12 
any or every night, for this week, 47xkc 
per hour plus overtime for Sunday.
By Gerald Brickman
As the war continues and more 
and more college students are being 
called to the service, Carnegie Tech 
students are continuing to respond 
in great numbers. Perhaps the 
greatest number of Techites are, 
however, going into the different 
branches of the air force, and this 
weeks column is based entirely on 
Tech men in the Army Air Forces.
Last Friday, as graduation cere
monies throughout the great South
west at the eleven advanced pilot 
schools of the Army Air Force Cen
tral Flying Training Command 
commenced, the shadow of more 
and more wings fell ominously over 
the Axis super-fabric of once dream
ed invincibility. Joining in the 
lengthening aerial parade of pilots 
who have completed the intensive 
training in the huge Central Flying 
Training Command area were men 
from every state in the Union.
Carnegie Tech was well repre
sented by Lts. Andrew P. Gallagher 
of New Kensington, Stephen S. Navran of Kansas City, John B. Mc
Connell of Pittsburgh, and Donald 
W. Rawlings of Steubenville.
Twelve men from Carnegie Tech 
recently reported to the Army Air 
Forces Pre-Flight School for pilots 
at Maxwell Field, Alabama, to be
gin the third phase of their training 
as pilots in the U. S. Army Air 
Forces.
These aviation cadets are receiv
ing nine weeks of intensive physical, 
military, and academic instruction 
at Maxwell, preparatory to begin
ning their actual flight training at 
one of the many primary flying 
schools located in the Eastern Fly
ing Training Command. The men 
are: Alman A. Corey, Walter A. 
Ebert, Arnold L. Horelick, George 
H. Kintzing, Modustus I. Kirsch, 
Maits D. LeBon, Robert C. Long, 
Stanley B. Lord, George March, 
Richard C. Meese, Edward P. Navin, 
and Warren Oesterling.
At the South Plains Army Air 
Field at Lubbock, Texas, Lawrence 
DeSimone has been made flight of
ficer. While at Tech he was student 
director of the Glee Club and the 
Kiltie Band. Before beginning 
training as a glider pilot he had 
been with the National Guard.
Second Lieutenant Vincent J. 
Faix is now learning to fly the big 
Flying Fortresses at Roswell Army 
Air Field as a student in the fourengine pilot transition school there. 
He received his pilots wings recent
ly at Ft. Sumner, New Mexico.
MEN IN
SERVICE- ^Iilgg|gli3 
PROTECT YOUR TRAVEL CASH
Travel money is safe from loss or theft when you carry AMERICAN 
EXPRESS TRAVELERS CHEQUES. Your money is always in readily spend
able form, and if lost or stolen, you receive a prompt refund.
Issued in denominations of $10, $20, $50 and $100. Cost 75fi for each 
$100. Minimum cost 400 for $10 to $50. For sale at banks and Railway 
Express Offices.
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIAS MOST COMPLETE SELECTION OF CLASSICAL AND 
POPULAR RECORDS
AMERICAN EXPRESS 
TRAVELERS CHEQUES604 Wood St. Pittsburgh
You Cant Beat Their 
MILDER BETTER TASTE
Iheres no busier place than Washington, D. G. Its the 
control room of Americas mighty war machine. And 
Chesterfield is the busiest cigarette in town. Its on the 
job every minute giving smokers what they want. Its 
Milder, Cooler, Better Taste makes it the capital smoke.
You cant beat Chesterfields Right Combination of the 
worlds best cigarette tobaccos for real smoking pleasure. 
Make your next pack Chesterfield . . . You can't buy a 
better cigarette.
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1943 THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
^cUei in Khaki . . . Student Employment
Those who are interested in ap- Girls and Boys

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1943
On the Campus
A.C.A.C. Elections
Elections for A. C. A. C. repre
sentatives for the Colleges of Engi
neering and Fine Arts will be held 
on November 23, 1943. Candidates 
must be seniors next semester; and 
all petitions, signed by at least 15 
members of the respective Colleges, 
must be handed in Dean Murphys 
office before Thursday, November
18, at 4:00 p. m.
B, B, & B
Tuesday, November 16, 12:00-1:00
Violin Concerto........Tschaikowsky
Thursday, November 18, 12:00-1:00
Songs .................. Varied Composers
Congratulations!
The members of the Mu Alpha 
Gamma sorority, who recently 
pledged the national sorority Alpha 
Epsilon Phi, will be initiated into 
the latter next Sunday, Novem
ber 21.
Intramural Bowling
j&OWU
Keep Fit by 
\ Bowling
University Recreation
On Craig Off Forbes
HUNT ARMORY
EAST LIBERTY 
2 Blocks from Penn & Highland
EIGHT BIG DAYS AND NITES STARTINGSunday, Nov. 21
2:30 and 8:30 P.M. DAILY THRU __________SUNDAY, NOV. 28
See! Larry Sunbrocks Sensational
RODEO
WITH TOP HANDS IN THRILLING COMPETITION
And Hollywood Daredevils BitThrill Show
162PERFORMERS162
^ See! Cowboys in Great Rodeo Contests!1 See! Americas Greatest Circus Acts! 04 See! Bronc RidingBull Dogeint Calf Roping! See! Elephants, Dogs, Ponies, Seal
Acts!
T See! Stratosphere ManTerrific Hi
________________Act!________________
a AMERICAS GREATEST DAREDEVILSSuperman
LEAPS HIS CAR OVER A BUS*
THE LONE RANGER
Impersonated, Defends the Stage Coach
ITS TERRIFIC  TITANIC  COLOSSALTICKETS UIGGETTS
AU Stores and at Hunt Armory 
75c, SI .10, *1.65, BOX SEATS *2.20.CHILDREN ANT SEAT, 55c. 
Phone MOntrose 1808 for Reservation! 
Mail Order* accepted to Hunt Armory, S. Liberty. _ _______j
Nurse To Speak ...
Continued from page 1 
monthly stipend. The Cadets will 
be sent to various hospitals in the 
nation for training and will be well 
fitted to undertake positions of imThe Student Bridge
portance in the nursing profession 
when their courses are completed. 
The only promise demanded of the 
cadet is that she promise to remain 
active in essential military or civil
ian nursing for the duration of the 
war.
Mrs. Williams will also tell of the 
inspiring part nurses are now play
ing in healing the wounds and 
broken spirits of the boys at the 
front.
By Ernie
On Wednesday, November 17, stu
dents in universities and colleges 
all over the world will observe 
International Students Day with a 
two-minute silence period iv>, honor 
and memory of those students and 
teachers everywhere who have 
fallen victim to the brutality of 
the fascist hordes. The celebration 
of the day was originated by a few 
Czechoslovak students in London 
on the first anniversary of the 
brutal massacre of 160 students of 
the- University of Prague in 1939. 
Within the last three years, the 
small meeting in England was 
transformed into a commemoration 
and dedication ceremony reaching 
New York, and Chunking, Delhi, 
Canberra, Moscow, and Jerusalem. 
Last year, more than two hundred 
colleges in this country alone ob
served Students Day by a period of 
silence, special assemblies, and 
mass meetings. On Wednesday, we 
too will be asked to honor our un
fortunate friends at 11:00 A. M. by 
two minutes of devotion and 
thought.
Yes, thought . . . try to think 
why we have this day. Do you real
ize what is happening in Europe to
day? In the occupied countries of 
the continent, the Nazis have set 
out to destroy the heritage of Euro
pean culture and to cripple the na
tions future by deliberately slaugh
tering their youth. In Poland, Hol
land, France, and all the other inTHE PROGRESS OF A 
COMMUNITY IS REFLECTED 
IN ,THE 
CHARACTER OF ITS BANKS 

MELLON 
NATIONAL BANK
MEMBER FEDERAL DEPOSIT IN8URANCI 
CORPORATION
In a HURRY?
You Can Get
24 HOUR 
CLEANING 
SERVICE
at
Campus Cleaners
4609 FORBES ST. 
MUseum 1288
Lowenstein 
vaded countries, thousands of chil
dren, most of them our own age 
and some of them barely twelve 
have been shot or tortured to death. 
Daily, unknown Nathan Hales face 
the execution squad, because, in 
spite of their youth, they value their 
country more than their own lives. 
Statistics sound cold: so many boys 
deported for forced labor, so many 
girls used for the pleasure of the 
German soldiers, so many killed, so 
many starved.
All of us are justly tired of hear
ing about our good fortune in not 
being in the Army. We feel that 
our country needs engineers just as 
much as soldiers, and that without 
the one the other could not exist. 
But we possess another privilege, 
infinitely greater than the dubious 
one of walking about in civilian 
clothesthe privilege of living in 
America. And with this privilege 
we have assumed a tremendous re
sponsibility. Those children of 
Europe are dying for us, we must 
win the peace for them so that an
other war cannot scourge the world 
again.
This responsibility is inescapably 
ours, and in order to fulfill our ob
ligations we must have knowledge. 
We must shake off our lethargy and 
take an active interest in the events 
around us. What are we fighting 
for? How can we solve the vast 
political problems at stake? These 
and other fundamental questions 
must be answered before any at
tempt at a lasting peace can be 
made. And if we will take a hand 
in the rebuilding of the world  
we owe that to the children of 
Europewe must make a conscious 
effort to find the answers.
These are the times that try your 
souls . . . show yourself worthy of 
your responsibility. Read the news
papers, the news magazines, discuss 
current events with your friends, 
and, if you think it worth while, 
read this column. Each week we 
shall try to give you facts and opin
ions about some aspect of current 
events which you should know 
about, and our only political credo 
will be progressive liberalism.
Have a Coke= Good winds hav blown you here
...a way to say We are friends to the Chinese
China knew Coca-Cola before the war. Where Coca-Cola is on hand 
today, to Chinese and Yank alike, Have a Coke are welcome 
words. Around the globe Coca-Cola stands for the pause that re
freshes, has become a symbol of good will.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY Of THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY 
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY, PITTSBURGH, PA.
Coke = Coca-Cola
Its natural for popular names to acquire friendly abbreviations. That* why you heat Coca-Cola called Coke".

---------------------------------------------------

Personalities In Sports
Its the last quarter of the PittTech battle. Pitt has a superior 
team and has managed to run up 39 
points while holding Tech scoreless. 
A gallant Tech team is still trying 
to score. The ball is centered; Breier 
spots a receiver and throws it 27 
yards to Ghizzoni who goes over 
for the Tech touchdown.
We thought you might like to 
know more about this lad, so we 
herein introduce Irwin Breier. He 
hails from Denver, Col., but unlike 
most people, likes it fine in Pgh., 
except for the occasional light smog. 
In the girl department he prefers 
brunettes in general, and a girl nam
ed Bette Ann Feissner in particular, 
who is also head entertainer at the 
Stage Door Canteen in Washington, 
D. C.
Other hobbies include strumming 
a mean banjo, and anything to do 
with horses. He draws horses, rides 
horses, etc. Even has a halter in his 
room. At Teddy Roosevelt High he 
earned letters in track, golf, tum
bling, fencing, and soccer. At Car
negie Tech he earned a football and 
a track letter, being high scorer on 
last seasons track team.
Irwins many interests do not keep 
him from his work; he has a fairly 
good factor. His favorite food is 
plum pudding drenched in burning 
brandy. (Pardon me while I drool.) 
His pet dislike is people in movies 
who tell how the story is going to 
end.
His greatest thrill occurred last 
fall when he worked for George 
Marshall of the Washington Red
skins. It was their championship 
season, and through his job he be
came acquainted with all the team, 
including the great Sammy Baugh.
RODGERS
DAIRY STORES
MILK SHAKES
Made from Pure Whole Milk for 
only 15c
We Do Not Use Skim. Milk.
NEARESTSTORES 
-----AT----
LOCATED
3905 FORBES STREET
Near Bouquet Street
4619 CENTER AVENUE
Near Craig Street
Irwin Breier, Carnegie Techs 
speedy little halfback, who threw 
the touchdown pass in the Pitt game.
All Star Game To Be 
Tomorrow At 5:15
The touch football game between 
the Civilian All-Stars and the Army 
team from Company B, which was 
supposed to have been played last 
Thursday, will be played tomorrow 
in the Carnegie Bowl. Since mem
bers of the press will be here at that 
time for a review of the Tech ASTP 
Regiment, the game will be run in 
conjunction with their inspection of 
the Army men and the Army activi
ties on campus.
Plans for the game are the same 
as before. The Kiltie Band will be 
out in full regalia, loud speakers 
will give a play by play account of 
the game, and the Army men will 
be excused from their formation 
until 6:10 to make it possible for 
them to see this game.
Vogue...
Continued from page 1 
the best essays submitted in the con
test.
Any girl who is interested in this 
excellent opportunity for the future 
should contact Adeline Herlick, 
M. M. C. C.
Seemillers Dairy Store 
and Luncheonette
417 S. CRAIG ST.Just Off Forbes
Get Your CORSAGE
FOR THE
Intersorority Formal
GIDAS FLOWERS
Intramural Bowling
Carnegies intramural bowling 
teams opened their season last Sat
urday at the University Bowling 
Alleys with 16 teams competing. 
This is the first time that the Army 
has been represented by bowling 
teams, and if the soldiers can bowl 
as well as they can play touch foot
ball, the competition will be keen. 
Tenpins are the vogue this year; 
most of the fellows prefer them to 
the smaller, faster, and harder-tocontrol duckpins.
The one-sided contest of the after
noon was between BSR and ROTC 
IIthe fraternity men won 3 games 
to 0 for the soldiers. The final scores 
were: Beta Sigs: 647, 648, 650; the 
ROTC: 610, 561, 583. SAE lost 2-1 
to a fast-stepping C-3. The scores 
were C-3: 700, 757, 763; SAE: 701, 
590, 650. DU played A-l. The DUs
took the contest 2-1. Army: 744, 643, 
648; DU: 686, 723, 706. Tau Delts 
decisively beat ROTC I in their first 
game 778 to 692, but lost out in the 
last two games 706 to 691 and 740 
to 671. Kappa Sigma lost twice, 
735 to 588 and 652 to 592, to C-l in 
a contest in which the third game 
was not played. The Army control
led the Junior Chemists in a game 
which gave them a try for first place 
with BSR, winning 3-0. Citcom 
Clan won their contest with A-2 on 
a forfeit. The Delts Army oppon
ents were absent so they bowled 
their half of the contest and will 
wait until next week to see if the 
Army team can top their efforts. 
TX played E-2 only two games, but 
they won both of them 649 to 632, 
and 703 to 676. The other game will 
have to be played next week. The 
Betas thoroughly beat E-4 three 
times; 785 to 592, 739 to 656, and 737 
to 683.
MODERATE PRICES
37JJD Forbes St.MAflower 1300
Telephone lines from poles to homes take a 
terrific beating from old man weather. And 
with wire for replacements drafted for military 
use, existing lines must be kept in good condition.
Asphalt coating applied in time keeps out 
moisture, chief trouble maker on telephone 
lines. Without lowering the wires, this trolley 
painter speeds the coating  helps recondition 
50 lines a day.
This simple "stitch in time helps keep 
communications open to the homes of 
America  and saves critical materials 
for vital war weapons.
War calls keep Long Distance lines busy ... That's why your call may be delayed.
TUESDAY* NOVEMBER 16, 1943 ____________THE CARNEGIE TARTAN__________________________5
SPORTS

---------------------------------------------------

6THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1943(The (iFarnecjie plaid
&tiotuuitiei, . . .
Last week, Carnegie Tech was 
visited by the quiet and amiable 
personality of Harry W. Hersan, 
formerly a student of patternmaking at the C .1. T. vocation school, 
and now a lieutenant in the Army 
Air Force. Harry, now serving his 
third year with Uncle Sam, was in
ducted in April, 1941, and spent 
three months in basic training at 
Camp Croft, South Carolina. From 
there he emerged a Private First 
Class, and was attached to Penn
sylvanias 28th Division at Indiantown Gap. Next came maneuvers, 
and Pfc. Hersan fought mock bat
tles with the Infantry throughout 
the southland until April, 1942, 
when the handsome Harry was ad
vanced to the rating of Corporal 
and made a leader of a 60mm mor
tar squad. In this position, he found 
the opportunity to promote several 
sports tournaments, two of which 
were boxing and softball. He also 
lectured on news orientations and 
assisted in the special service office. 
September, 1942, saw Harry trans
ferred to the Air Corps, and after 
surviving a rigorous course of in
tensive training, he was commis
sioned an Army Pilot on July, 1943.
A graduate of Turtle Creek High 
School, Lt. Hersan was pursuing 
the metal patternmaking trade at 
the Westinghouse Air Brake Com
pany before he was inducted. While 
here on his recent visit, the Lieu
tenant recalled with pleasure all the 
Evening School parties and dances 
he attended while at Tech, and ex
pressed the desire to use another 
of his weekly 72-hour leaves to fly 
to Pittsburgh for our Christmas 
Dinner-Dance. We enjoyed your 
visit very much, Lt. Hersan, and 
heres wishing you luck for future 
progress in the Army.
Dance 
Where Its Young and Gay 
EVERY SATURDAY NIGHT
on the
CONTINENTAL 
TERRACE
85 cents per person
Pins Tax
. . Council Minutes . .
Minutes of Meeting of Evening 
Student Council held Sunday, No
vember 6, 1943, in the Conference 
Room, Industries.
Meeting was called to order by 
President Flanders at 3:00 P. M. 
with all members present.
President Flanders started the 
meeting by reading the By-Laws of 
the Evening Student Council for 
the benefit of the new members on 
Council.
Mr. Riffle and Mr. Macha were 
eliminated from holding council of
fice due to being Social Chairman 
and Editor of the Plaid, respective
ly. Council By-Laws state that a 
student cannot hold more than two 
major offices during one year. Pres
ident Flanders suggested that Coun
cil offices be filled as follows: Mr. 
Biscup as Vice-President, Mr. Park 
as Treasurer and Mr. Rymar as Sec
retary. Mr. Macha made a motion 
to accept President Flanders sug
gestion of council officers. Seconded 
by Mr. Riffle and approved by 
Council.
President Flanders appointed 
Miss De Maria, Mr. Biscup and Mr. 
Park as the Budget Committee. 
NEW BUSINESS
Mr. Macha brought up the ques
tion as to whether we should or 
should not have a Christmas Din
ner Dance. Mr. Biscup suggested 
that the fraternities be asked if 
they would like to go in with Coun
cil and make it a joint affair of all 
the recognized Evening School or
ganizations on the campus. The so
cial chairmen of the organizations 
would form a social committee to 
promote this function.
After a discussion, it was decided 
that Mr. Riffle write a letter to each 
fraternity for its approval or com
ment.
Bills for payment were present
ed by President Flanders and Mr. 
Riffle. Motion was made by Mr. 
Rymar to approve these bills. Sec
onded by Mr. Biscup and approved 
by Council.
Meeting adjourned at 5:45 P. M.
J. M. Rymar, Secretary.
JletH Surim . . .
Every Wednesday evening the 
swimming pool is open from seven 
until nine oclock for the benefit of 
the evening students, both male and 
female. Come out and duck or be 
ducked.
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
GET HEPPED
ON YOUR HIT PAKADE 
BY BUYING 
HIT RECORDS 
ATMAJESTIC 
ELECTRIC
APPLIANCE CO.
111-113 ATWOOD STREET 
Medical Arts Bldg.
Although Thanksgiving isnt un
til the 25th this year, Im thankful 
right now that Im writing this col
umn and can tell everybodys deep, 
dark secrets and feel comparatively 
certain that mine will not be reveal
ed. Understand George Riffle was 
very much interested in obtaining 
the telephone number of a certain 
sweet little lassie. Could be that he 
is just patriotic and is interested in 
sharing his car for the next party. 
Could be . . . That dashing gent 
thats been seen recently flitting 
around C. I. T.s night school meet
ings was none other than John Hop
kins. John recently returned to 
Jacksonville, Illinois, to resume his 
studies in the A. S. T. P. Good 
luck, John . . . Note to the girls 
in the 8:30 to 10:30 speech class on 
Tuesday eveningsHow about get
ting after those two unmarried 
males Bill Doney and Karl Newman 
and dragging them out to the next 
night school social on the 27th of 
November? . . . A lot of new faces 
were noticed and welcomed at the 
Carnegie Union on Sadie Hawkins 
day . . . Peggy Wilhelm has just 
been honored with a new niece, Pa
tricia Ann. Dont know how her 
nerves can take all the excitement 
of greeting new babies and bidding 
departing soldiers (namely John 
Groll) goodbye. We still appreciate 
the fact that youre true to the Ma
rines though, Peg ... In parting 
may I say, A word to the wise is 
sufficient; so beware of what you do, 
or say, or youll find your most em
barrassing experiences in this col
umn next week.
Evening Students . . . Notice
A social committee meeting will 
be held Friday, November 19 at 10 
P. M. in the Pattern Shopsecond 
floor of Industries.
The Carnegie Plaid
Page edited by Evening School Students of Carnegie Institute of Technology. All views or. opinions epressed in editorial column are not necessarily endorsed by the Editorial Board of the DaySchool staff.
Editor-in-Chief ...........................Edward A. MachaNews Editor ...............................Joseph M. RymarPhotographer ......................................... George RiffleStaff
Charles Colyer S. W. MarcinizynMary DeMaria Ruth McGrtawAlbert C. Flanders  William McKelvey Betty M. Gorman Arlene McMurrayJohn Hundertmark Caroline NollWilliam E. Kuskie Dorothy PapaJoseph E. Luncher Peggy WilhelmThelma Lifshitz____________________Elmer Decima
Thanksgiving Dance 
Set For Sat., Nov. 27
The next social event of the year 
will be the Thanksgiving Dance to 
be held on Saturday, November 
27th in the Fine Arts Exhibition
Hall. This is the first dance this
year held by the Evening School, 
and plans are being made to have 
this be one of the outstanding 
events of the year.
The music will be supplied by 
Bernie Soisson and his orchestra, 
who have been playing for dances 
around Pittsburgh for the last five 
years, and are quite popular with 
the dancers of this district.
The admission will be 50 cents 
per person, with all service men in 
uniform admitted free. All you 
girls whose boy friends are in the 
service are urged to attend. We 
will try to have enough male 
dancers present to keep you trip
ping the light fantastic.
The refreshing drinks will be sup
plied free and the music will be fine 
and smoothso come out and have 
a good time.
Let's go to
ISALY'S
Vol. 37N.23 
CoA oR2 RE2NV RGoIST3
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Allies
Male Actors Needed
Male students who are interest
ed in dramatics or training to this 
end may have the opportunity of 
doing so by contacting Robert Gill, 
Director of the Pittsburgh Play
house on Craft Avenue.
Mr. Gill can be found almost 
every evening at the Playhouse, and 
he will give you full particulars.
Fort Pitt is the Place
to RentTYPEWRITERS
^oStL
ALL
MAKES
$3.00 per 
Month
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
