The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 36. No. 12_______________________CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OP TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA. TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 1942
Continued on Page 7
Mel Snyder9 Jeanne King Head Tartan
New Changes To Be 
Discussed At Student 
Council Meeting Tonite
Since the essential parts of the 
Student Council Constitution were 
written in 1923, many of the clauses 
are now out of date. The elimina
tion of student salaries last year 
necessitated the removal of the sal
ary article from the constitution. 
Thus Student Council President 
Jack Van Arsdell explained the 
cause for the changes in Councils 
Constitution which were proposed 
at last Tuesday nights meeting. 
Those proposals will be voted on at 
tonights Council meeting.
Several changes have been made 
in the proposal since its reading at 
the Council meeting. Disregarding 
the formal style of the proposal, 
these are the main changes:
(1.) Abolishment of all college 
Senates.
(2.) Representatives to Coun
cil to be elected at large 
with one representative 
for every 100 students.
(3.) Representatives in EngiContinued on Page 6
sports staff, there will be Don 
French and Dan Lindstrom.
Melvin Snyder has been active on 
the Tartan since his freshman year, 
and was Personnel Manager during 
this past semester. He is also on the
Observance of 30th Carnegie Day 
To Be Held At Music Hall Today
See pictures on page 8
Jones Loses Close 
Eng. Senate Race
John Beatty, Chairman of the 
Elections Committee, announces 
that there will be four polling 
places available for tomorrows 
elections. One is in Administration 
Hall, for freshmen and sophomore 
engineers, and one is in room 152 
Industries for junior and senior en
gineers. The other two are near the 
main entrances of Arts and Margaret Morrison. Students must pre
sent their athletic cards to vote. 
Polls will be open from 11:30 to 
2:30.
In the past, the Independent 
Party on campus was thought of as 
being permanently deflated. To 
those who still dream of a truly 
representative student governing 
body, let them be reminded that 
Chuck Jones, Independent candi
date for the office of President of 
Engineering Senate, lost the elec
tion last week by a mere 17 votes! 
The final tabulation was: Galbraith 
422; Jones 405.
In accordance with a revised plan 
for the election of a new staff, Mel
vin Snyder, Aero, 43, has been 
chosen Editor of the Carnegie Tar
tan for the coming semester, with 
Jeanne King, General Studies, 43,
as Managing Editor.
The new plan was devised to take 
care of the extra semester due to 
the expedited program. It consists 
of the election of an editor and man
aging editor from the seniors who 
will be in school next semester, the 
rest of the staff to compose an edi
torial board from the present junior 
staff. Plans call for members of 
this board to be issue editors,- either 
singly or in pairs, their duties as 
such being to assume the position 
of managing editors. Next spring, 
a complete new staff will be elected 
from the editorial board to serve 
for their last two semesters.
The Editorial Board will consist 
of the following juniors: Dave
Neuss, Ed Goldstein, Elaine Levin, 
Walter Darby, Gerry Edelson, T. J. 
Harmany, Louisa Saul, Doreen Bar
ry, and Helena Aronson. From the
Photo by Bill Hulslander
C. M. C. A. cabinet, the Rifle Team, 
a member of the Society of Amer
ican Military Engineers and the I. 
A. S. Last year he was manager of 
the varsity track team. Because 
of his three years work on the Tar
tan, Mel has been made a member 
of Pi Delta Epsilon, mens journal
istic honorary. Jeanne is vice pres
ident of the womens journalistic 
honorary, Alpha Chi Alpha, and is 
a member of Kappa Phi Delta and 
the Mortar Board. She was one of 
the Tartan staff secretaries during 
the preceding two semesters.
The official announcement of the 
new positions will be made at the 
Tartan Banquet, to be held at the 
Royal York Apartments at 6:30 P. 
M. on Monday, November 30th. 
Highlight of this occasion will be 
the unmasking of J. B., prominent 
Tartan Drama Critic.
Beta Sigma Rho Wins 
Scholarship Trophy
Beta Sigma Rho was the winner 
of the fraternity scholarship trophy 
which was awarded today at the 
Carnegie Day ceremonies. This is 
the second successive year that the 
Beta Sigs have won this award, 
this time with a factor of 2.41. Trail
ing close behind was Theta Xi with 
a factor of 2.35 and Sigma Alpha Ep
silon with a 2.305. The Tau Delts, 
who won permanent possession of 
the Phi Kappa Phi Scholarship 
Trophy two years ago when they' 
won it for the third successive sea
son have now slipped to last place.
Boss Hall easily took the mens 
dormitory scholarship cup with a 
factor of 2.57. Next in the competi
tion for this cup was McGill Hall 
with a factor of 2.39.
The factors of the sororities make 
all the others seem diminutive. The 
Mu Alpha Gammas barely led this 
group with the impressive factor of 
2.8. Gamma Gamma Gamma and 
Alpha Kappa Psi rated second and 
third with factors of 2.78 and 2.69 
respectively.
The girls dormitory award went 
to Mellon Hall. Last year Mellon 
was one of the stragglers but this 
time it nosed out last years win
ner, Whitfield Hall, with a factor of 
2.53. Whitfield and Forbes Halls 
placed second and third in this 
group with factors of 2.46 and 2.45. 
A complete list of the organizations 
and their factors are:
Fraternities
Beta Sigma Rho .................... 2 41
Theta Xi............................................ 2.35
Sigma Alpha Epsilon......................... 2.305
Delta Upsilon.................................... 2.29
Delta Tau Delta ............................... 2.206
Beta Theta Pi..................................... 2.203
Kappa Sigma ..................................... 2.089
Pi Kappa Alpha................-.............. 2.078
. Phi Kappa........................................ 2.06
Sigma Nu ........................................... 2.01
Alpha Tau Omega ........................... 1.98
Tau Delta Phi ................................... 1.903
Sororities
Mu Alpha Gamma........................... 2.80
Gamma Gamma Gamma................ 2.78
Alpha Kappa Psi ............................. 2.69
Gamma Phi Sigma........................... 2.57
Alpha Theta Sigma ....................<. 2.47
Beta Tau Lambda .......................... 2.46
Kappa Phi Delta............................... 2.35
Beta Pi ............................................... 2.07
Mens Dormitories
Boss Hall ........................................... 2.57
Welch Hall......................................... 2.39
McGill Hall........................................ 2.35
Scobell Hall....................................... 2.32
Henderson Hall................................. 2.05
Womens Dormitories
Mellon Hall ....................................... 2.53
Whitfield Hall .................................. 2.46
Forbes Hall......................................... 2.45
Cedar Hall ........................................ 2.30
Cypress Hall...................................... 2.24
Birch Hall.......................................... 2.08
Laurel Hall ....................................... 1.76
Oak Hall ............................................. 1.56
Doherty and T.D. Jolly
To Address Assembly
All classes will be suspended to
day between 10:20 A. M. and 1:30 
P. M. for the thirtieth annual ob
servance of Carnegie Day at Carne
gie Music Hall. President Robert 
E. Doherty will deliver an address 
entitled Student Problems in War 
Time and award cups to the frater
nity, sorority, and dormitory which 
compiled the highest average facPRESIDENT ROBERT E. DOHERTY
. . . presents scholarships cups . . .
tors during the past school year. Mr. 
Thomas D. Jolly, Vice-president, 
Chief Engineer, and Director of 
Purchases of the Aluminum Com
pany of America will bring a greetMR. THOMAS D. JOLLY
. . . brings alumni greetings . . .
ing from the Alumni and give a talk 
on Aluminum in the War.
Mr. Jolly has been chosen Carne
gies Man of the Year by the Pitts
burgh Mens Clan, an honor that has 
gone annually the past three years 
to some prominent Carnegie alum
nus. Last year it was James H. 
Kindelberger, President of North 
American Aviation, Inc., and in 1940 
it was Charles E. Wilson, President 
of General Motors.
Continued on Page 11

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 1942
CdiioM.' Anmcltai/i
A Slight Misunderstanding
Last weeks front page story which announced the results of the Stu
dent Council elections was, we find, misunderstood by the majority of the 
student body. The Tartan, at that time, stated that Bob Galbraith and 
Jim Boyce would be elected President and Treasurer of Student Council, 
respectively. Many students believed that we were announcing the results 
of the vote for the office of President of Engineering Senate. Let us ex
plain the political set-up of last Tuesdays election: At lunch time the stu
dents of the College of Engineering voted for the President of Engineering 
Senate. The candidate receiving the majority of the votes cast was elect
ed to that office. The candidate with the second highest vote became Vicepresident of Engineering Senate. Both of these men, the President and the 
Vice-president of Engineering Senate, then became members of Student 
Council.
Student Council then elected the incoming president from any person 
holding an office (President or Vice-president) in either Engineering or 
Arts Senate. The Tartan learned, weeks ago, that Bob Galbraith was se
lected by the Fraternity Combine as its candidate for Council President. 
Obviously, since the fraternities are in control of Council, they could elect 
whomever they wished, which in this instance was Bob Galbraith.
While on the subject of politics, we should like to remind the student 
body of the election which will be held tomorrow. Certainly, in times like 
these, every student should exercise his right to vote. We should like to 
see the Independents win, but somehow, we hesitate to say so because 
of the fear of driving more people to the other side. Sometimes our edi
torials affect people that way, so let the record show that we are impartial 
on the matter.
Kiss The Boys Goodbye
With this issue, Volume 36, Number 12, we step down from the duties 
of the Tartan Editorship and turn over our keys to the newly elected staff. 
It is with a certain feeling of pride that we end our brief journalistic career 
with this sixteen page Carnegie Day issue; it is with a feeling of regret that 
we leave the Tartan offices where we have spent the majority of our Fri
day evenings during our four year stay at Carnegie Tech.
There have been many subjects which we wanted to discuss in this 
column, items which were crowded out by what we considered more im
portant subjects. However, perhaps they were better left unsaid, for we 
certainly had our hands full fighting for what we had already said. Our 
sole aim during the year was to make the Tartan a better paperto give 
Tech students their moneys worth. If we have succeeded, our efforts have 
been amply rewarded; if we have failed, we can simply say that we have 
done our best.
The publication of any paper requires the cooperation of many individ
uals and organizations. On this score, the Tartan has been most fortunate. 
Speaking for the entire Tartan staff, we should like to take this opportunity 
to thank those who have made the weekly appearance of this paper a re
ality. Speaking for ourself, we should like to thank the underclassmen of 
the Tartan staff for putting up with an Editor who has, were sure, made 
life miserable for them.
Well, thats about the end. Theses still a lot to say, but there are only 
so many words that will go into this space. So, to our last Tartan editorial 
we write, Thirty.
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the 
staff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not 
to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh, Pa.
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2600 PHONE SCHENLET 4557
MPMWNTID FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING PY Aftfr Oflfipp Wnllr Pall
National Advertising Service, Inc. Editor-in-chief..................................sc. 9070
o N.r. Business Manager...........................SC. 9855
ASlAiAg h tgMsgu h ngM iSdnlM h MiS eMirAlMAg Advertising Manager.........................BR. 4759
Entered as seeona-ciass matter In tbe Pittsburgb Post Office under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Published weekly during school year, except holidays and examination periods.
Subscription Price SI.10 per year.
Editor-in-Chief.................................................................................................Leonard Chotiner
Business Manager.....................................................................................................Ted Nierenberg
Co-Managing Editors.........................................................................................................Jack Shore
Walter Haller
Co-Copy Editors...........................................................................................Stanley A. Rosecrans
Jeanne King
Staff Secretary....................................................................................................................Pat Elman
Sports Editor............................................................................................... ...............Don Watkins
Personnel Manager.............................................................................................Melvin H. Snyder
Advertising Manager.................................................................................................Wilbur Thomas
Circulation Manager.................................................................................................Irving Palefsky
Staff Artist....................................................................................................................Elliott Twery
Staff Photographer....................................................................................................Edward Munyer
Business Staff: Jerry Jacobs, Morry Rosecrans, Martha Wagman, S. Spangler.
Junior Editors: Helena Aronson, Doreen Barry, Walt Darby, Gerry Edelson, T. J.
Harmany, Dave Neuss, Louise Saul, Elaine Levin, Ed Goldstein.
Reporters: Natalie Nathan, Lucille Schulberg, Geri Racusin, Mort Cohn, Ed Croop,
Aron Beck, Norma Caplan, Sidney Gerhardt, Allen P. Golden, Adeline Herlick,
Marty Jacobs, Bill Kolb, Iris Kwall, Lois Marks, Jeanne Norris, Lola Patton,
Rhea Rothman, Dorothy Rutkin, Alen Schneider, Alice Softs, Bob Gillespie.
Parade of Opinion
An Associated Collegiate Press Feature
The question of colleges shirking their duty and perpetuating the priv
ileged class system is one that has been discussed many times. In the fol
lowing provocative editorial THE COLUMBIA DAILY SPECTATOR pre
sents a point of view with which we heartily concur.Ed.
American colleges and universi- the country annually is losing a subties, secure in their traditions of ac
ademic freedom and intellectual 
and ideological leadership, have al
ways been looked upon as a vital 
part of the democratic heritage. Yet 
today, for the first time, they are be
ing compelled to face openly the one 
issue they have avoided, but which 
directly challenges their right even 
to consider themselves a part of the 
democratic way of life.
For the blunt fact is that the 
whole system of higher education in 
this country is built upon the basis 
of class privilegefor the colleges 
now, as in the past, continue to 
draw their students primarily from 
those financially able to afford an 
education. As a people, we have 
seldom questioned this condition. 
We have bliilt up legends about 
students who work their way 
through college till we have al
most convinced ourselves that the 
opportunity for higher education is 
open equally to all elements in the 
population. Yet we have failed to 
realize that, not only are colleges 
to a large extent reserved for those 
who can afford it, but even those 
who either partially or wholely 
work their way are able to do 
so simply because their families do 
not require their earnings for sub
sistence.
Difficulties of graduate students
On the graduate school level  
medicine, law, engineering, etc.  
the lines of privilege are even more 
sharply drawn. Since work in these 
advanced fields requires considera
ble more attention than college 
studies, graduate students as a rule 
find it difficult to hold jobs at the 
same time, and consequently great
er emphasis is placed on the state of 
family finances.
In times of peace, a system of col
lege and graduate education based 
on privilege hardly jibes with the 
sacred American principles of 
equal opportunity for all. In war
time, its undemocratic character is 
accentuated both because it leads to 
serious waste of effective manpower 
and because it inevitably hardens 
the class distinction in the armed 
forces.
That the American people are 
now paying through the nose as a 
result of their delusions about high
er education is seen in recent re
ports of the national resources plan
ing board and the Carnegie endow
ment. Three out of every four high 
school students who graduate in the 
top ten per cent scholastically never 
get to college, mainly because of fi
nancial reasons. In other words,
No Tartan Next Week
Because of an extension in the 
Thanksgiving holiday, there will be 
no Tartan next Tuesday. However, 
publication will be resumed on De
cember 8.
stantial part of its best brainpow
er because the financial means for 
providing the proper traiing for that 
brainpower are unavailable.
Colleges source of material
By now, most of the colleges have 
forgotten that the original Selective 
Service law, which only permitted 
temporary deferment for students, 
was efficiently designed to prevent 
the rise of a privileged group ex
empt from service. The various re
serve plans however, by drawing 
officer material from students after 
they had been admitted to college, 
became a convenient means for cir
cumventing the clear intention of 
the law. No one will deny that de
ferment is necessary to enable a stu
dent to receive adequate training; 
but deferment and eventual com
missions belong to those who de
serve them on the basis of ability, 
not to those who were able to pay 
for the opporunity to receive them.
Since the army and navy depend 
on the colleges for most of their of
ficer material, the effect of perpet
uating the traditional basis for ad
mission can only be to strengthen 
the degree of privilege which per
vades the armed forces. A demo
cratic army is one whose officers 
are drawn from all elements in the 
population and not limited to the 
sons of the comparatively well-todo.
The changes which must be made 
are simple, yet clearly revolution
ary in nature. In principle, they 
are contained in the plans now be
ing evolved in Washington. What
ever the form of financial aid 
adopted, it must be made clear that 
there can be no compromise with 
the basic principle that higher ed
ucation is not the possession of a 
particular class, but the right of all 
the people, with the government as
suring the realization of that right 
when necessary.
Up to the colleges
It is common knowledge in edu
cational circles that government of
ficials had originally intended to put 
the new plan into effect during the 
past summer. However, fear over 
the political implications of the rev
olutionary proposal, not to mention 
the threatened opposition of religi
ous groups and old-line educators 
whose belief in democracy is lim
ited to pretty speeches, is said to 
have stalled public announcement.
F >r this reason, it is now up to the 
colleges, their faculties and their 
studentsthose most affected by 
the new proposalsto rally behind 
leaders like President Conant of 
Harvard and show the world that 
they understand that democracy 
tolerates no privileges. Should they 
fail to renounce the present basis 
for higher education in the United 
States they shall in effect have 
given the lie to all their sacred tra
ditions and all their wee words 
about freedom and equality.The 
Columbia Daily Spectator.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 1942THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
jet'l Not Ration PaHion. . . Off The Cuff .  .
Iktetu).
FOR'OW!
"Fuel rationed-? I hadn't noticed !"
CMCA-CWCA Dinner 
To Be Given Tonight
The Mens and Womens Christian 
Associations will hold a Thanksgiv
ing dinner for their respective cab
inets, the freshman cabinets, and all 
others wishing to attend on Novem
ber 24, at 6:00 P. M. in the Union.
Guest speaker for the occasion 
will be Dr. Bernard Clausen, Pastor 
of the First Baptist Church. Dr. 
Clausen is well known by students 
on the Tech campus.
At this dinner the new C. M. C. A. 
officers will be installed: Don
French, President, and DeWitt 
Lyon, Vice President.
Tickets may be purchased for 60c 
from any member of either organi
zation.
Pix.
Carnegie Union, Sunday, Nov. 29 
2:00 Phi Kappa Phi 
2:15 Intersorority Council 
2:30 Kappa Phi Delta Actives 
2:45 Kappa Phi Delta Pledges 
3:00 Gamma Phi Sigma Actives 
3:15 Gamma Phi Sigma Pledges 
3:30 Alpha Theta Sigma Actives 
3:45 Alpha Theta Sigma Pledges 
4:00 Beta Tau Lambda Actives 
4:15 Beta Pi Actives 
4:30 Gamma Gamma Gamma 
Actives
4:45 Alpha Kappa Psi Actives 
5:00 Mu Alpha Gamma Actives
Seniors -- Notice
ORDER 
CLASS DEGREE RINGS 
AT ONCE
Rings ordered on or before Friday, Novem
ber 27, 1942, will be ready for delivery before 
Commencement, December 20, 1942.
ALUMNI OFFICETHE UNION
She cant marry ten Beta men, 
but Lu Orr Baked one cake for 
Rodger Loper and one for H. Nel
son; all the Betas must have en
joyed them because they called her 
up and thanked her by singing 
Howd you like to be a Beta 
sweetheart? (Yes. Ed note.)
Our Campus Queen is playing the 
number these days. One a number 
two a numberfive if you want to 
count Hobbs.
Jean Davidson was pinned last 
week by D. U. Bob Hanover. Nice 
going. Our freshmen do all right, 
too. Betty Haynes came in Sunday 
night with Bob Duncans old school 
ring.
Theres been a change of partners 
and a complete reorganization what 
with Peg Carver going with Jack 
Loftus arid Ed Munyer escorting 
Doris Sterner around.
The seniors in the dorms got wind 
of their proposed ducking and lock
ed themselves in a room in McGill 
Hall. But when the underclassmen
broke down the door and got them 
down in the Tech bowl, they 
couldnt get enough water. So they 
threw mud.
Maybe someone should tell Ralph 
Happe that gas is being rationed or 
that exercise is good for the soul. 
This noble McGill gent climbs into 
his trusty (or rusty) Pontiac every 
morning, drives to Skibo for break
fast, and thence to school, back to 
Skibo for lunch, thence to school, 
back to Skibo for dinner, thence to 
McGill, and thence to McKeesport. 
Sounds a little bit like Smith, Smith, 
Smith, and Jones.
Is there any proof for the rumor 
that a freshman dramat of Oak Hall 
is sporting Ducky Astens Beta 
pin on her slip?
Beta Sigma Rho and Tau Delta 
Phi made merry at the Union these 
past two Sundays when Mu Alpha 
Gamma proved to the doubting 
Tommies that the era of ptomaine 
poisoning is not dead.WAR
hits theWIRES !
WAR hits telephone service two ways 
at once. It piles on a heavy load of 
calls. And it cuts down the supply of tele
phone materials and equipment.
Most Long Distance lines are overloaded 
on weekdays from 9 A. M. to 12, from 2 
P. M. to 5 and from 7 to 9 at night. You can 
usually avoid telephone traffic jams if you 
make your calls during other hours. Best 
time to call home is on Sunday, when lines 
are less busy and the reduced night rates 
are in effect all day.
Please keep all calls brief and avoid 
unnecessary calls. This is especially impor
tant around Thanksgiving, Christmas and 
New Years.
mm GAILS COME FtRSTf
THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY 
OF PENNSYLVANIA
UY If. S. STAMPS AND WAR BONDS

---------------------------------------------------

4THE C ARNEOIE TARTANTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 1942
*JecU' ^JnadUio+i
Cameron Of Errachl Tartan Gives 
Carnegie Authentic Scotch Colors
By Mel
Carnegie Day, with all its history 
and tradition, seems an opportune 
time to point out some of the wealth 
of this history and tradition that 
abounds in some of the institutions 
of our school.
More mistaken ideas exist about 
Carnegies colors than on any other 
tradition of the school. Instead of 
adopting school colors like every 
other school in the country (and 
freshmen still ask, What are Car
negies colors?), Carnegie Tech has 
chosen the tartan of the clan, Cam
eron of Erracht. Yes, that design 
of the varsity letters and the bands 
kilties is the Cameron of Erracht 
tartan, and is never referred to as 
plaid.
The Tartan is one of the oldest 
traditions of Scotland, the native 
land of our founder, Andrew Car
negie. Each Scottish clan has one 
or more tartans which are the pat
tern or design of the cloth of the 
kilties of the members of the clan. 
In no other country has the clan 
system with its outward vestiges, 
tartans, armorial bearings, etc., sur
vived as in Scotland.
Andy Carnegie was the son of a 
Scottish weaver, who was the son 
of a Scottish weaver, who was . . . 
etc., ad infinitum. The connection 
between his family, or as we Scotch 
say, sept, and the Erracht Camer
on Clan is hazy at best.
Snyder
The Tartan of Erracht was spec
ially designed for the 79th Cameron 
Highlanders in 1793 when the reg
iment was formed by the famous 
Sir Allan Cameron of Erracht, K. C. 
B.; Allans mother created the tar
tan by blending the tartan of her 
clan, the Me Donalds, with that of 
the Cameron of Locheil. The 79th 
Camerons wore oui* tartan in for
eign service in Flanders, and the 
West Indies during the Eighteenth 
Century.
When the Kiltie Band wanted 
uniforms they sent to Scotland and 
obtained uniforms made of the 
authentic Cameron of Erracht tar
tan. Incidently the blanket-like 
mantle over the shoulder is called 
the Plaid, the skirt is called the 
Kiltie, and the whisk broom* 
hanging in front is the Sporran.
As a style note it may be remark
ed that the Highlanders considered 
it a mark of shame or effeminacy to 
wear trousers during the period 
after th Jacobite Rebellion of 1745, 
when the use of tartans was sup
pressed by an act of Parliament.
We wouldnt be a bit surprised to 
hear the Kiltie Band, when swing
ing along in the traditional garb of 
the 79th Highlanders to suddenly 
shout their bloodcurdling war cry, 
Darag dearca fitchich!or some
thing.
Weve been *goin* steady* a 
long time, you and I. You see; 
Im a symbol of the fife and 
sparkle of Coca-Cola. There
fore, I speak for Coke. I Ilk 
your company. I offer some 
thing mare than a thirst 
quenching drink. IF* re
freshing. Yes siree...tts 
got that extra something 
you can't get this side of 
Coca-Cola itself. Let's get 
together. Make H a Coke 
date.*
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY, PITTSBURGH, PA
Students May Join 
Artists For Victory 
To Aid In War Effort
Aestheticaly-minded Tech stu
dents may now have the opportuni
ty to do something for the war ef
fort. Artists for Victory, Incorpor
ated, a new society recently organ
ized in Pittsburgh is interested in 
securing enthusiastic students as 
members. All students interested 
in applying for membership should 
see Clarence Carter in the P. & D. 
Department.
Artists for Victory, Incorporated, 
is composed of all the art organiza
tions in the city. It was formed so 
that all art work, pertaining to the 
war effort, be it literature, music, 
painting, sculpture, drama, or ar
chitecture, might be centralized.
Many members of the faculty of 
Carnegie Tech are active in the or
ganization. Clarence Carter, in
structor in painting, is president. 
Raymond Simboli of the Architec
ture Department is vice-president. 
Gladys Schmitt, English Depart
ment, Samuel Rosenbert, Painting 
and Design Department, Bob Lepper, Painting and Design Depart
ment, J. B. Ellis, Sculpture Depart
ment, and Margaret Schneider, 
Drama Department, head commit
tees on literature, painting, poster, 
sculpture, and dance, respectively.
So far, Artists For Victory has 
been busy getting organized. How
ever, it has plans to make posters 
pertaining to the war effort, using 
local subject material and sugges
tions from the Office of War Infor
mation in Washington. It will give 
art books and mazaines to army 
camps for those soldiers interested 
in keeping in touch with the art 
world. The organization also plans 
to sponsor exhibits, the proceeds of 
which will be given to war activi
ties. The biggest project that Art
ists For Victory is planning is a 
masque which will be held in the 
spring.
College Training 
Useful To WAACS
Although the Womens Army 
Auxiliary Corps has no specific ed
ucational requirements, WAAC of
ficials report that college training 
often produces the quality of leader
ship that the Corps is seeking in its 
officers.
The first 436 WAAC officers were 
commissioned directly from civilian 
life to train incoming members of 
the Corps, but in the future all of
ficers will be promoted from the 
ranks.
The ranks of the WAAC are open 
to all women between the ages of 21 
and 45, regardless of race, color and 
creed, Mrs. Oveta Culp Hobby, Di
rector of the Corps says. Physical 
fitness and mental alertness are the 
chief requirements. No social or 
educational barriers stand in the 
way of a womans serving her coun
try in the WAAC.
A WAAC must be a citizen of the 
United States and have a good rec
ord in her home community. She 
must pass the WAAC mental alert
ness testa general intelligence ex
amand be in good condition phys
ically. Minimum weight is 100 
pounds. Married women are eligi
ble. The Corps is authorized to 
serve anywhere that army units 
may be stationed, at home or abroad, 
in any kind of non-combatant job. 
Every WAAC will wear the olive 
drab uniform and insignia and ac
cessories of the Corps. Enlistment 
is for the duration of the war plus 
six months.
WAACs will be taken in and 
trained as fast as the army needs 
them to fill specific jobs now held 
by Army men. Greatest demand at 
present is for motor transport driv
ers, clerical workers, signal com
munication personnel  including 
telephone and telegraph operators 
and cooks and bakers. Other types 
of jobs that the WAACS will fill 
are: accountants, dental assistants, 
dieticians, draughtsmen, hostesses 
aids, library aids, motion picture 
projectionists, printers, reception
ists, statisticians, waitresses and 
many more.
Compliments
 of 
 a  
Friend

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 1942THE CARNEGIE TARTN5
two of the boys
Walter Haller . . .
When a weary looking Buck Pri
vate by the name of Walter Haller 
(better known to his buddies as 
Poodles or Waldo marches to 
and fro under a blazing southern 
sun some two months hence, he will
Dave Ross
no doubt heave an occasional sigh 
for the familiar faces and places he 
knew at Carnegie Tech.
Hell be thinking of that rollick
ing trip to Annapolis he took with 
the Mens Glee Club during the 
spring of his junior year. Hell re
member, too, those intramural box
ing bouts with scrappy A1 Mura. 
Never to be forgotten will be those 
five days and nights spent with his 
Omicron Delta Kappa brothers 
working on decorations and pub
licity to make the Fall Carnival of 
1942 a success.
As vice president of Pi Delta Ep
silon, the mens journalistic honor
ary, Walt feels that this organiza
tion could be a much more potent 
force in campus publications than it 
now is. His devotion to C. I. T. pub
lications arises from his active par
ticipation on virtually all of them. 
He has contributed his talents and 
his time mainly to the Tartan as comanaging editor. He was layout 
and design editor of both the Tech
nical and the Cut during his junior 
year, and during his freshman and 
sophomore years he was associate 
editor of the Citcommentator. Of 
late he has been contributing fre
quent articles to the Scottie and 
the Thistle.
But Walter is proudest of the fact 
that he has earned all his school ex
penses in his four years at Tech 
through either scholarships or a 
varied assortment of odd jobs. One 
of his various jobs included living a 
month at Whitfield Hall, an experi
ence which no other male student 
on campus can claim.
If you want to see Walt smile 
with pride, just mention the Tech 
Printers, his pride and joy.
HOTEL WEBSTER 
HALL
Available For
PRIVATE PARTIES 
BANQUETS 
SWIMMING PARTIES
MAyflower 7700 
Fifth near Mellon Institute
The four words most closely as
sociated with Dave Ross, Mechan
ical P. H. and V. Senior are Dacqueri, Bacardi, Cuba Libre and 
Zombi. Aside from being past 
Chancelor of Beta Sigma Rho he has 
A
I2BI
RADIO DIVISION 7 Central Park West (at Columbus Circle) N. Y. Circle 7-2515
PRE-MILITARY TRAINING 
for MEN of MILITARY AGE
CIVILIAN TRAINING
for Men and Women Seeking Careers in Radio 
1 RAD 10 OPERATORSTECHNICIANS 
1 if qualified, are in great demand by the 
Armed Forces, Merchant Marine, 
Commercial Air Lines, etc. 
COURSES UP TO 8 MONTHS
Latest Commercial Type Equipment
MACHINIST
MACHINE SHOP DIVISION 
260 WEST 41st ST.. N.Y.C.. LOngacre 3-2180
MACHINIST 
(TOOL & DIE MAKING 
INSTRUMENT MAKING
3 to 12 WEEK COURSES
Beginners  Advanced  Brush-Up 
Individual Instruction. Day and Evenlnf
fyi/i&t *1ke Goubuf,
Engineers Base Senior Theses On 
Company Sponsored Experiments
devoted most of his time to 
strengthening all the fraternities on 
Campus. Interfraternity Council 
thought so well of his efforts that 
within the past two years they elect
ed him to serve in the three capaci
ties of Publications Chairman, So
cial Chairman, and President.
In step with the times, Dave is a 
super patriot. Not satisfied with 
giving his blood to the effort, short
ly after graduation in December, 
Dave will leave for Chanute Field 
to enter the Air Corps as an Engi
neering Cadet.
Any time not spent at Woodlawn 
Pharmacy is delegated to meetings 
of Pi Tau Sigma, National Mechan
ical Engineering Honorary, and the 
Rules and Regulations Committee.
Dave hails from a small town in 
Ohio which possibly explains his 
fear of the weaker sex. He says its 
only because he cant get a date 
with any girl more than once ex
cept a certain dark haired Dramat 
whom he took out twice just as a 
fellow inbiber. If you saw Lavinia 
in Family Portraits, youll know 
who we mean.
As far as he is concerned, his most 
worthwhile accomplishment in his 
short life as a student, aside from 
making the honor roll, was his suc
cessful effort at reorganizing next 
years Interfraternity Council into 
a council of fraternity presidents.
The Department of Civil Engi
neering of Carnegie Tech has the 
distinction of being the first in the 
country to initiate the program of 
having senior theses which are 
based on experiments sponsored by 
commercial companies. These spon
sors, besides providing the supplies 
necessary for conducting the ex
periments, give a bonus of $50 to 
those students working on the proj
ects.
Research work conducted by se
lected senior engineers is designed 
to offer solutions to minor industrial 
problems resulting from the short
age of metals, from failures in ma
chine parts due to fatigue, and var
ious other difficulties encountered 
in many plant organizations.
Three senior civil engineers are 
now working on these sponsored 
theses. Robert E. Linder and Harry 
M. Sadler are experimenting on a 
composite slab of reinforced con
crete made of plywood, concrete, 
and a small amount of steel shear 
developers rather than steel and 
concrete, as steel is vitally needed 
in war industries. Through this 
achievement, only about two per 
cent of the steel ordinarily used in 
the production of reinforced con
crete is needed. Weight will be put 
on this slab to test it, and the ef
fects of temperatures on this new 
combination will be studied. Thus 
the new combination of plywood 
and concrete, if successful, will 
have many practical applications; it 
may be used for service piers, 
bridge floors, and floors in buildings.
The companies backing this ex
periment are the American Wood 
Preservers Association, from Chica
go, who will supply the shear de
velopers, $50 for one of the students, 
and an additional grant of $50 for 
the purchase of necessary supplies; 
and the Hal Keely Plywood Com
pany, who will furnish the ply
wood and who will match the mone
tary grants made by the other com
pany. These establishments are 
taking an interest in this research 
because they wish to advance their 
own products.
Working on the production of 
white concrete from lime and plain 
concrete, as the manufacture of 
white concrete itself is very expen
sive and has been curtailed since 
the outbreak of the war, is Ben 
Marcin. This mixture can be of 
great value in directional curbings 
in airports and along the assembly 
lines of airplane factories. With the 
use of this cheaper white concrete, 
light can be reflected well where it 
is most needed.
The National Lime Association of 
Washington, D. C., is supplying the 
financial bonus and the raw ma
terials needed to conduct the re
search.
A plan such as this should be a 
stimulant to students inasmuch as 
it will yield results which have a di
rect bearing on the students train
ing and which furnish them with 
valuable practical experience, in
dustrial contacts, and a small fi
nancial return in the form of an 
award. While it is not very prob
able that extremely important and 
deeply involved research problems 
might be solved through this prac
tice, nevertheless, the cooperating 
industry which has few facilities for 
organized research should find 
much benefit from such a program. 
Perhaps this good idea will spread 
to other departments and other 
schools.
Originator of this plan for senior 
industrial research theses is C. W. 
Muhlenbruch, assistant professor of 
civil engineering. A graduate of 
the University of Illinois, he work
ed at the Aluminum Research Lab
oratory at New Kensington before 
coming to Tech. He has been here 
for four years, and has contributed 
many valuable articles to technical 
magazines. Last spring many com
panies became interested in his plan 
for plywood girders.
Best Wishes To 
Carnegie Tech
KNAPP BROTHERS
116 Blvd. AlliesAT. 0175
METROPOLITAN
For Men & Women Licensed by State ef N. Y. 
No Salesmen. Write or Call 9 a.m.>9:30 p.m. 
Metropolitan Tech Standard Throughout
Compliments
- - of -
KEYSTONE LUMBER COMPANY

---------------------------------------------------

6THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 1942
Proposed Changes . . .
Continued, from Page 1
neering and Margaret 
Morrison will be compos
ed of two-thirds Seniors 
and one-third Juniors.
(4.) Fine Arts representatives 
to be both men and wo
men of the Junior and 
Senior class. One-half to 
be men and the other half 
women.
(5.) After elections to Stu
dent Council are made, 
the president and vice 
president of Council will 
be elected by the new 
members.
The last point has been discussed 
to great length. That the new of
ficers should be elected by the new 
Council has it merits since the new 
men are in a better position to know 
the capabilities of their own men. 
Many people feel that the old Coun
cil should, as they do now, elect the 
officers since they feel that they 
will chose with the asset of experi
ence.
In regard to Proportional Repre
sentation, another thorn in Councils 
side, Jack has taken a definite stand. 
He is convinced that the system has 
its merits and would like to see it 
given a trial. Before he goes out 
of office, he will bring P. R. up for 
vote.
New Book Club Formed
Here is an opportunity to ease the 
strain on your purse when you do 
your Christmas gift shopping, and 
a chance to get a real bargain in 
book buying throughout the coming 
year. Contemporary Books, locat
ed at 440 Wood Street, is forming a 
book club. Membership in the club 
entitles the holder to a 10 per cent 
discount on all purchases, plus free 
admission to the popular Sunday 
evening programs.
New System Offers 
Sleepless Lectures
By Allen Golden
Professor Hawkes of Columbia 
University has suggested a solution 
for the everlasting problem of bor
ing lectures. By employing the 
Hawkes System any tired student 
can appear to be wide awake and 
vitally interested in the dissertation 
that he is forced to listen to.
As soon as the lecturer begins ad
ministering his anaesthetic, the stu
dent should listen for a word begin
ning with the letter a. When this 
word is found, the already thrilled 
listener keeps on his toes so that he 
will not miss the b word, and so 
on through the alphabet. The 
chances of coming across q, x, 
orz are very slim; but this only 
adds to the joy of the game. If a 
player is lucky, he will get through 
the entire alphabet. When he does, 
he wins!
Professor Hawkes is certain that 
the system works because he has 
experimented with it. Upon first 
inventing the game he described it 
to all of his students. Since that 
time he has been able to announce 
a greatly increased attendance at 
his lectures; and he also claims that 
when he leaves the room at the end 
of the period, there are no sleeping 
beauties continuing their beauty 
naps into the next period.
As a student, I can vouch for the 
efficiency of the Hawkes system, 
and suggest that the Student Coun
cil give him a vote of thanks.
(Ed note: We guarantee, Profes
sor Hawkes, that your future class
es will not only be more wide 
awake, but also considerably larger 
if youll try serving tea and crum
pets between p and q.)
'ifaufi Gambuti jb>uuf, State
WOODLAWN PHARMACY
SPECIAL
Mailing Bags$1.49
Alarm Clocks .$1.49 and up
Carnegie Tech Xmas Cards, $1.00 per dozen
Five Hundred Tissues23c
Tech Stationery49c
Complete Line of
Squibb, Parke & Davis, and Abbot Vitamins
New Assortment of
Kaywoodie Pipes$3.50 to $12.00
The Time When The Horse Reigned 
Supreme On The Carnegie Campus
Parker 51 Pen & Pencil Sets, $17.50 and up
By Bill Kolb
Students and faculty alike are 
worried about Techs future in the 
light of the present shortages and 
curiosity has been aroused as to 
what a car-less Carnegie would 
be like. We went to Mr. J. C. Bur
ry, the purchasing agent, one of the 
real old timers, to get a brief 
sketch of Tech as he knew it and 
may probably know it again.
The above photo is one of his 
prize possessions and should give 
you some idea of what conditions 
could be like without cars. It pic
tures the first president, Arthur A. 
Hamerschlag, on his return from 
abroad, with Anna B. Smith, first 
dean of Margaret Morrison, and Ed
gar Leippe, the president of the sen
ior class. Note the joyous students 
welcoming their president, who 
rides not in a four gallon a mile 
Packard, but a horse drawn car
riage.
Mr. Burry recalls this and many 
other incidents when the horse 
reigned supreme. It seems that the
Freshman Assembly
Another Freshman Assembly, for 
men only, will be held on December 
1st at 11:30 in the Little Theater of 
the Fine Arts Building. Sponsored 
by Colonel Bass and Mr. Risedorph, 
of the Military and Hygiene Depart
ments respectively, this meeting 
will feature a movie on Personal 
Hygiene.
animals were housed in a rectangu
lar barn about one hundred feet 
long, stationed where the flagpole 
now stands in front of the Arts 
Building. Can you imagine horses 
stabled in the Commons, where you 
now eat your daily bread?
Transportation to school for most 
students meant a street-car that 
stopped at the Carnegie Library, for 
the only available entrance was 
across the bridge to Schenley Park.
Now we must prove if we are 
physically superior to men of the 
past as we claim. You may be sure, 
however, that the students of those 
days did not weaken under what we 
would now consider hardships.
ON THE RECORD
There will be no phonograph re
citals either today or Thursday be
cause of Carnegie Day Exercises 
and the Thanksgiving holiday re
spectively. The recitals will be re
sumed next week, however.
Tuesday, December 1 
12:30, Room 157, Arts, Mr. Charles 
A. H. Pearson will supervise this 
program: ff
Symphony No. 6.........Tchaikowsky
Thursday, December 3 
12:30, Room 157, Arts, Dr. Frederick 
Dorian will be in charge of the fol
lowing performance:
Rhenish Symphony (Completion) 
Schumann
Duty 
Calls...
A working, sacrificing, fighting America must keep morally and 
physically fitmentally alert. If you are one of the 16 million Amer
ican men and women for whom Bowling provides a regular stimulat
ing recreation, you are co-operating with Uncle Sams health program. 
Keeping yourself physically and mentally alert is an important duty 
not to be neglected. Bowl a few lines each weekat the beautiful
MURRAY-BEACON ALLEYS
JAckson 02661916 MURRAY AVENUE

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 1943THE CARNEGIE TAKTAU
^ke GniUc'l Gosute/i
Family Album, Best of Plays; 
Other Two Have Mediocre Success
The Drama departments latest 
presentation was an interesting, 
and, we imagine, a very difficult ex
periment; three one-act plays by to
days master of froth and sophisti
cated nonsense, Noel Coward. Mr. 
Coward produced these plays in 
New York a few years ago with 
himself and Gertrude Lawrence in 
the leading roles, and we could not 
help but wonder, as we watched all 
three, how Mr. Coward and the al
ways delightful Jenny did them. 
It struck us, as the lights came up, 
at complete wordliness, a rare 
quality in matured men and wo
men, is almost too much to expect 
of young actors, no matter how ex
cellent they may be, and no amount 
of vocal tricks and poise can catch 
that elusive omniscience which Mr. 
Coward instills in his work.
This was most evident in the first 
play, Hands Across the Sea, an 
airy little nonentity about a charm
ingly scatter-brained woman and 
one incident in her very confused 
life. Piggie, the central character, 
whose every word and action cried 
out for Gertrude Lawrence, was 
competently interperated by Miss 
Walker, though she, like all the 
members of casts, was inclined to 
speak a little rapidly. Mr. and Mrs. 
Wadhurst, country cousins with a 
vengence, were treated to a su
perabundance of proviniciability by 
Mr. Motyl and Miss Gerson respec
tively. Strange interperatations 
were Miss Sheinmans as Clare, and 
Mr. Knaaks as Mr. Burnham, whom 
we would never trust with his own 
knife and fork, let alone the plans 
for a motorboat. Excellent in a 
small part was Mr. Krantz as Bogie. 
The set, attractive, no doubt, on pa
per, suffered under a welter of in
congruous properties. Summary: 
though it may have been written 
like champagne, both of Techs casts 
played it like gin.
The second play, Still Life, dis
played Mr. Cowards capacity for 
that sordid type of romanticism
which isor was, before the war 
the bane of those who go to the the
ater to be entertained. We found 
it a trifle dull and drawn out, and 
focused our attention on the com
edy which revolved around the 
counter upstage. Mr. Stevens was 
a plausible Albert, and Mr. Agruss 
an exuberent and cheeky Stanley. 
Miss Pursch and Miss Dodge had al
most identical interperatations of 
Mrs. Bagot, though Miss Dodge 
looked more like a bar-maid, which 
may or may not be a compliment. 
The love interest, a heavy business 
at best, was handled competently 
by Miss Layton and Mr. Sivy, less 
so by Miss Both and Mr. Rose. The 
audience was spared a very ordi
nary parting scene by the entrance 
of a garrulous creature named 
Dolly, whose extreme rudeness 
broke up a dangerously sentimental 
plot and inspired Miss Roth to near 
hysteria. Perfectly matched, we 
thought, were Miss Nelson as the 
free and easy barmaid, and Mr. 
Agruss, whom we have mentioned 
before.
We were so entranced by the 
third play, Family Album, that 
we find it difficult to remember any 
especially brilliant fragment from 
that kaleiscopic Fantasy With 
Music. The set was excellent, and 
a perfect foil for the black costumes. 
The acting and singing were far 
above average, as was the music, 
especially the little tune about 
somebody marrying a sailor or 
something. Outstanding was Miss 
Law as Jane with a wonderful, clear 
voice, and a strange sort of intimate 
dignity. Very successful, also, were 
Miss Strober as Lavinia and Mr. 
Parks as Jasper. Though the sup
porting characters had but negligi
ble parts, they were handled with 
assurance and ease. The whole 
performance, from the opening tab
leau to the final line downstage, re
minded us of the stylized technique 
of the older Russian Ballets.
By J. B.
Compliments
... of - - -
H. SAMSON, Inc. 
Funeral Directors
537 NEVILLE STREET
Established 1859
Jones Loses ..
Continued from Page 1
The slate for tomorrows election 
is as follows:
Fraternity Candidate Independent 
Class President, Eng.
Don R. French.. Robert Culbertson 
Representatives (vote for 4)
John L. Wolf.............James Horvis
Robt. Bowler.. Marvin Goldberger
Maurice Mednick...........Robert Tobe
Robt. P. Taber.........William Heller
Vice-pres. Eng. Senate
Philip Rose.............Paul Bluestein
Asst. Treasurers, Eng. (2)
Ralph H. Martin...........Arthur Stair
Richard P. Lindgren.. Hugh Porter 
Asst. Treasurer, Arts (1)
Louis P. La vie........John T. Kelly
Asst. Secretary 
Dorothy Houlihan ...........................
Last Tuesday night, Bob Gal
braith was elected president and 
Jim Boyce treasurer of the new Stu
dent Council. Although Mr. Gal
braith was opposed by the formida
ble Chuck Jones and Fine Arts rep
resentative George Hoppel, he was 
elected per Tartan schedule.
Jim Boyce didnt have any opposi
tion for the treasurers desk. 
Ed Schatz put the official O. K. on 
fair-haired Jim (quite legitimate 
and official) who took the portfolio 
hands down.
There was a little mix-up in the 
election of the new secretary. Since 
the official recommendation was 
made in favor of Miss Judy Skeehan, Council was rather surprised 
when Miss Betsy Beall was elected 
by a one vote majority.
Dresses To Be Modeled
Miss Norma Risman, stylist in the 
Educational Department of the Sim
plicity Patterns Company, is bring
ing 22 complete outfits to the Car
negie Tech campus for inspection 
by the coeds. These dresses, suits, 
and school outfits will be modeled 
by 22 freshmen of Margaret Morri
son this afternoon at two oclock in 
Rec Hall of Maggy Murph.
*7*7/5 *7 Redutti
Two Men Win Out 
In Tough Fight
Several weeks ago the Tartan 
startled the campus by clearing up 
the enigma of T T B T that had been 
baffling the campus for days. Once 
again this publication brings the 
news of the moment with the re
sults of that much talked of bridge 
tournament.
After a final round of 24 hands of 
semi-duplicate bridge the winners, 
and best players on Tech campus 
are proclaimed to be John Klein 
and A1 McKling, Running a close 
second and fighting to the end on 
November 11, were Bob Sterling 
and Irving Palefsky. Others who 
placed in the tournament were 
Adolph Slone and Sidney Berkowitz, who took third position, 
while Richard Armstrong and Rich
ard Russell placed fourth.
It seems as though the men have 
once again asserted their superior
ity. Although the tournament began 
with ten teams of men and ten of 
women, none of the womens teams 
survived to the finals. Two of their 
teams, composed of Barbara Lindstrom and Ruth Borgman, Lucy 
Frank and Phyllis Tesler, played in 
the semi-finals, but were eliminated.
Klein and McKling were leading 
throughout but it was a tough fight. 
Theta Tau came through with their 
ten to one promise by awarding the 
top team a prize of ten dollars, 
while the boys that placed second 
pocketed a five dollar second prize.
The consolation tournament for 
those teams eliminated in the first 
play off was completed last Thurs
day night when Mr. and Mrs. Jack 
L. Bowers won the booby prize from 
the competing team of Stanley 
Rosecrans and Webster N. Jones, Jr.
Choose 
your bank 
as you would choose a 
friend
MELLON 
NATIONAL BANK
Member Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation

---------------------------------------------------

8THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 1942
OUR FOUNDER
Carnegie, Benefactor Extraordinary, Founds 
Institution With Million Dollar Endowment
ANDREW CARNEGIE
Above: Our founder, Andrew Carnegie, who gave a million dollars to an endow
ment fund for our school to get it off to a good start. The writing above is his own
Above: Mr. and Mrs. Andrew Carnegie, with President Hamerschlag during the 
1910 visit, standing on the steps of the Margaret Morrison Carnegie College.
Below: Andrew Carnegie, founder, and Arthur Hamerschlag, first president, on 
Carnegies second visit to the campus on April 4, 1910.
and an era of rapid expansion be
gan. Classes were first held in En
gineering Hall in 1908; the Fine Arts 
Building was finished in 1912, and 
its two wings added in 1916. Also 
in 1912, Machinery Hall had its 
humble beginning in the form of a 
lowly, one-story power house. Ad
ministration Hall was added in 1914. 
The latest important addition was 
made in 1924 when the gymnasium 
was built. Between 1914 and 1924 
the mens dorms and the Commons 
(the latter was then called the 
Langley Aeronautical Laboratory) 
were added to the campus.
During this period, the courses 
were expanded to cover four years 
and were placed on a collegiate 
basis. In 1912 the quality of instruc
tion and material warranted a 
charter of incorporation and Car
negie Tech received the power to 
confer degrees. The name was 
changed from Carnegie Technical 
Schools to its present name. The 
school grew so that, during the 
World War, about 10,000 people 
were trained here. By the end of 
the war, 3,600 soldiers and civilians 
were under training on campus.
August 11, 1919, was a sad day 
for Tech, for on that date Andrew 
Carnegie died. He had visited the 
school five times and was known 
and loved by both faculty and stu
dents.
By this time the school had 
grown so that the Carnegie Corpor
ation agreed to grant $8,000,000 to 
the school in 1946, if Tech could raise 
$4,000,000. This was for making 
some desired changes on the campus 
for which funds were inadequate.
During Dr. Bakers administra
tion a series of international con
ferences brought some of the 
worlds outstanding scientists to 
Tech. Also during his career here, 
the College of Industries was con
solidated into Engineering, and 
Tech became the only school in the 
country to confer degrees in print
ing.
In September, 1935, Dr. Baker re
tired due to ill health, and Dr. Do
herty, our present executive, suc
ceeded him in March, 1936.
The TARTAN is indebted to Mr. 
Larry Miller for the use of these 
pictures.
Long before 1900 Andrew Carne
gie visualized an institution to fur
nish trained men to industrial 
America, but the idea did not crys
tallize until after he visited Heighley Institute in September of that 
year. On November 15, 1900, the 
trustees of the Carnegie Institute 
held a banquet at the Schenley Ho
tel in honor of our founder, and at 
the banquet Mr. Carnegie read a 
letter in which he announced a gift 
of one million dollars for the en
dowment fund of a technical school. 
Carnegie Institute of Technology 
was born.
Five hard years followed, during 
which the site was selected, the 
ground broken; plans drawn up; In
dustries Hallour first building 
was raised, and Arthur Hammerschlag was appointed director. The 
charter class of 1908, 120 strong, en
tered Carnegie Tech on October 16, 
1905.
Amid the hammering, riveting, 
and sawing attendent on construc
tion, the first classes were held, and 
many of our traditions established. 
The Tartan and Thistle were organ
ized, the first fraternity formed, the 
school colors chosen, and the first 
athletic head appointed. Women 
came to Carnegie in March, 1906, 
and attended classes in Industries 
Hall.
In September, 1907, the women 
moved into the newly-built Mar
garet Morrison Carnegie College,
Above: Andrew Carnegie and his wife 
leaving one of the buildings. 
Below: Andrew Carnegie leaving his car.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 1942THE CARNEGIE TARTAN9
Obstacle Course 
Fully Completed
Through the efforts of Mr. Moses, 
Capt. Shaeffer, Mr. Keck, and Mr. 
Scuilli, the second half of Carnegies 
famed obstacle course has been 
completed. The completed course 
includes 24 obstacles, is about 3,000 
feet long and has a special 100-yard 
recognized military course.
The new part of the course, a di
rect continuation of the original 
course, starts with a dash down the 
track paralleling the old hydraulic 
Jab. After a dash up the steep em
bankment behind Margaret Morri
son, the runners will reach their 
first obstacle behind the tennis 
courts. This first obstacle will be a 
fourteen foot rope climb, but a new 
twist has been added. Instead of 
just sliding back to the ground, one 
will slide down only six feet and 
land on a platform. The eight-foot 
jump from the platform constitutes 
obstacle number two.
Next on the program is a sprint 
over the four terraces which will 
bring the runners up to the Cut. 
Here they will be confronted by a 
checkerboard, a series of short 
jumps that is designed for knea 
action. The next feature on the 
program is called a Dodge. After 
going through another Jungle-Jim, 
one arrives at Forbes Street and the 
start of the 100-yard course.
This course, which is short but 
snappy, includes the following 
closely-spaced obstacles: a two and 
one-half foot hurdle; a four-foot 
fence; two feet of high dodges; a 
seven-foot wall; a two-foot crawlunder; a very special jump over a 
seven and one-half foot ditch that 
will be filled with water; and a bal
ance that will be 32 feet long and 
two feet high.
After the runners finish up the 
military course, they will run down 
to the tennis courts, near the ropeclimb, where they will walk 
through a 15-foot V shaped trough 
called a straddle. There is still a 
dash back down and around the 
track to the original starting point!
As one of the enthusiastic build
ers exclaimed, If they took all of 
the obstacles out theyed still have 
a terrific course. This place is a 
natural!
Meteorology Course 
Lowers Requirements 
To Include All Collegesc?
The Aviation Cadet Meteorology 
requirements have been lowered to 
include all colleges and universities.
The new requirements for Mete
orology training are as follows:
Candidates for Meteorology train
ing must have completed two years 
of college, specialized in the sciences 
or in engineering, and must have 
satisfactorily completed thorough 
courses in mathematics, including 
differential and integral calculus 
and physics, preferably to include 
heat and thermo dynamics. Ages for 
this training are eighteen to thirty 
years, inclusive.
The only other Aviation Cadet 
ground duty training open at pres
ent is Engineering, requiring at 
least three years of engineering stu
dies. Ages are from eighteen to 
twenty-six inclusive.
How to Apply For Aviation Cadet 
Ground Duty training: application 
blanks may be secured from the 
Bureau of Placements, Room 155 
Administration.
1. Fill out application from W. D.,
A. G. O. No. 60.
a. Have it notarized.
b. Obtain parents consent if 
you are under twenty-one 
years of age.
c. Specify the type of Ground 
Duty training desired.
2. Send above application form
and following papers to:
Aviation Cadet Section
Military Personnel Division
O. D. P.
Headquarters Army Air Forces
Washington, D. C.
a. Birth certificate (Baptismal 
record or other sworn record 
of birth will be accepted).
b. College transcript.
c. Three letters of recommen
dation.
Note: If your educational re
quirements are certified by Wash
ington, you will be notified to ap
pear at an appropriate Aviation 
Cadet Examining Board for phys
ical and moral examination. If you 
qualify you will be sworn in the Air 
Corps Enlisted Reserve.
Jiead ^ech jbefe+t4.e PteMf/icun
One Way $6.60CHICAGO ....
30 Day Excursion  Leave Any Day, Return Any Day
Round Trip$9.90
OTHER LOW FARES
Round
One WayTrip
NEW YORK .....................................................$ 6.60$11.90
Cleveland ........................................................... 2.003.60
Detroit................................................................ 4.407.95
Columbus............................................................ 2.904.95
Indianapolis ...................................................... 5.058.60
St. Louis............................................................... 8.6514.75
Los Angeles ....................................:................ 38.5069.30
Through Express Service  No Local Stops
For Further Information
TRAILWAYS BUS DEPOT
1011 Liberty Avenue Phone GRant 5744
Photo by Bill Halslander
Heading Civilian Defense on the Tech Campus are Dr. Martin Chworowsky and Mr. Lawrence Miller.
Fashion Show To Be 
Sponsored By Plebes
Fashion-conscious fems, please 
note! Miss Francine Blum, stylist 
at Gimbels, and several of her mod
els are coming to the Carnegie Union 
Saturday, December 5, from 1:00 to 
4:00 to show Tech women the lat
est and smartest in college clothes. 
Besides the favorites in sportswear, 
date dresses and formals, the still 
useful grandmas flannel lingerie 
will be featured. The damsels of 
the freshman class of Margaret 
Morrison are the ambitious little 
creatures who are bringing all this 
luscious stuff to our campus.
Officers of the freshman class, 
who are also the heads of the com
mittees, are selling tickets to the 
laywomen (those who are not in 
their class) for twenty-five cen
times. They are: Helen Jaffurs, 
President in charge of the show; 
Evelyn Kane, Vice President; and 
Evelyn MacNeill, Secretary; in 
je ofpublicity.
Tech Sends Delegates 
To I. R. C. Convention
The International Relations Club 
of Carnegie Tech is sending Eve 
Rabban, Social Work 43, and Agnes 
Aronson, General Science 45, as its 
delegates to the Middle Atlantic I. 
R. C. Conference to be held on Fri
day and Saturday, December 4th 
and 5th, at Princeton University 
Princeton, New Jersey.
The topic of the conference will 
center around The United States in 
a New World. Round-table dis
cussions will be held on such sub
jects as Our Latin-American Neigh
bors, Japan, China, and the 
Southwest Pacific, Russia in the 
United Nations, The Future of In
dia, and The Problem of Ger
many.
Among those speakers who will 
address the convention are Dr. Ed
ward Meade Earle of the Prince 
ton Institute for Advanced Studies, 
and Professor Clyde Eagleton, of 
New York University.
HELP WANTED
All Day Saturdays and Monday Evenings
IF YOU ARE INTERESTED 
IN WORKING
AT KAUFMANNS
COME TO OUR
EMPLOYMENT OFFICE ON THE 10TH FLOOR 
AT YOUR CONVENIENCE 
FOR AN INTERVIEW
KAUFMANNS
FIFTH AND SMITHFIELD

---------------------------------------------------

10THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 1942
Reveals Stage Stars War Work
Gertrude Lawrence was 
in charm and purple when we said 
hello; she was also combing her 
hair, ordering scotch for a party she 
was giving for the kids in the cast,
murmering babytalk to a red porta
ble radio, struggling into a sable 
coat, and earnestly discussing the 
war work shes been doing.
As a reside'1 of Cape Cod, her 
particular interest has been the 
small stations all around the Cape. 
For the eight or nine soldiers at 
each of these stations shes been 
putting a barrel in the lobbies of all 
the theatre shes been playing for 
contributions of any sort from the 
theatre-going citizenry. She bego
Compliments 
... of - - -
MEADOW
GOLD
DAIRIES
126 Dcnniston Ave. 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
By Lucille Schulberg
dressed for books and magazines and tooth
paste and letterpaper and playing 
cards and all sorts of things to keep 
isolated soldiers from being bored.
Pittsburgh has been wonderful 
to my boys, she enthused. Weve 
had to empty that barrel about 
eleven times already.
A quick glance afterwards by the 
reporter verified that; the barrel 
was sagging with packages.
Miss Lawrences tremendous en
ergy asserts itself toward more 
than just Cape Cod soldiery. Shes 
one of the original members of the 
American Theatre Wing and has 
founded a branch of this big New 
York organization in Dennis, Massa
chusetts.
Though her schedule is piled up 
with war work, Gertrude Lawrence 
hasnt forgotten other kindnesses. 
From one of the mothers of the 
children in Lady in the Dark 
comes the report that during the 
long run in New York, Miss Lawr
ence came to the theatre nightly 
with wee presents for the young
sters in the cast.
When one meets Miss Lawrence 
one gets a peculiar shock. From the 
nearly unbearable vitality of the 
actress there is a curious delibera
tion in the woman. Not that she 
moves slowly or talks slowly or les
sens nervous action; rather, it is a 
definite feeling of sobriety  that 
she is keenly aware of what she is 
doing, what she has to do, and what 
she will do. It wasnt quite noticea
ble on stage during The Saga of 
Jenny.
Miss Lawrence had heard that the 
Drama Department was presenting 
Tonight at 8:30 and wanted to see 
the shows. There wasnt time, of 
course (I believe there was a Red 
Cross meeting, a speech at the Mo
bile Unit, and a dinner engagement 
for our matinee afternoon) but she 
read some of the lines and groping
ly hummed some of the music.
About this time John Potter, pro
duction manager, and Darling, 
came knocking at the door.
Fort Pitt is the Place 
to Rent
TYPEWRITERS
ALL
MAKES
$3.00 per 
Month
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
Mud 9*t /lfowi Cife!
Seniors Give And Take In Battle 
For Mud In Bowl, Place In Showers
Step right up, ladies and gentle
men, for the greatest show on cam
pusthe fight of the ages, the blitz 
of all blitzesCarnegie Techs own 
Senior Ducking! Come right up 
and see all the sights! On one side 
we see the seniors barricading the 
top floor of McGill Hall, and on an
other the underclassmen forming 
for an assault. The air raid sirens 
(or reasonable vocal facsimiles) 
scream while water bombs pound 
the aggressors as they stand around 
the entrance to Boss Hall. Now we 
see the assault on a solid wall of 
seniors inside McGill Hall, water 
splashing liberally over the attack
ers. What is it all about? Well, la
dies and gentlemen, just read on to 
find out.
Midnight last Wednesday was set 
as the time for Senior Ducking, but 
the seniors got wind of the fact that 
it was coming off and joined forces 
on the top floor of McGill Hall. A 
little later, the underclassmen as
sembled spontaneously (about an 
hour and a half before midnight) to 
start the big brawl early.
One underclassman was trying to 
delay the fracas until the next night 
(Thursday) because the seniors 
seemed too well fixed, and heavy 
damage seemed imminent. There 
was a rumor that the seniors had 
piled up desks and chairs to effect 
the barricade, so, one by one, about 
four or five men went over to see 
for themselves. Just as your re
porter got a glimpse showing that
the rumor was false, he was nearly 
trampled by the rush of underclass
men, who attacked a solid wall of 
seniors on the landing between the 
second and third floors. Water cas
caded down over the attackers and 
stairs, and the struggle beganone 
senior was grabbed from the multi
tude and tumbled down the stairs. 
Water began to come incessantly as, 
one by one, the seniors bounced 
merrily down the steps, with from 
one to four underclassmen hanging 
onto each of them.
Outdoors, the seniors were forced 
to the ground and hog-tied, then 
carried into Boss clubroom, where 
inventory was taken. Among them 
was a Judas, a Benedict Arnold, a 
traitor. It was Ted Nierenberg, 
Business Editor of the Tartan, who 
was to get his with the rest.
Into the bowl went the procession 
that foggy night. There the seniors 
were herded together and a hose 
played on them until someone let 
a couple of them loose. Amid the 
shouts and fog, a black blob cut 
through the air and struck home 
with a splat! Mud-balls! And so, 
the dorm politicians got in practice 
with a little (?) mud-slinging. Those 
that didnt get mud in the eye fell 
and got it all over them.
One last note: contrary to the
rumor around campus, McGill Hall 
did not float off and go down the 
Ohio River as a result of the inci
dentand the moral is Stop That 
Rumor!
MACHINCSTWO
- - - of - - -
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
A Brief Moment With Gertie

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 1942THE CARNEGIE TARTAN11
Electrical Honorary 
Calls New Members
Last night Eta Kappa Nu, the 
Electrical Honorary, held their an
nual initiation banquet in the Hotel 
Webster Hall. Eight juniors of the
E. E. department officially entered 
the society after a ritual that after
noon in the club room of Machinery 
Hall. They were: Leslie S. Frost, 
Robert W. Pogue, George Gallousis, 
Mannis P. Neumann, William H. 
Shepard, Charles N. Goehring, Mil
ton D. Daniels and Carl R. Olson.
Leadership, personality, activi
ties, and scholarship, are the re
quirements by which the above men 
were selected. This year there are 
fifteen seniors in E. K. N. out of a 
class of forty-four. This represents 
an exceptionally high percentage of 
honor students for this class.
Professor Raymond T. Gabler, a 
member of the faculty, was also re
ceived into the organization in rec
ognition of his excellent work in 
this department.
Colonel George Fairley, Director 
of Public Safety of the city of Pitts
burgh, was the guest speaker at the 
banquet. The Colonel spoke to the 
entire group of twenty-three stu
dents and six faculty members and 
gave an interesting account of his 
many experiences in the field of 
electricity here and abroad.
Donate Your Stockings 
To Household Ec Drive
Dont be disgusted if one of those 
too frequent rumors has left you 
bare legged and desolate. At last 
in some small way, you too can de
fend your country. Wouldnt you 
be thrilled to know that an Amer
ican parachutist had landed on 
Adolphs mountain hideout all be
cause you had given your last silk 
stocking to the cause?
The Household Economics De
partment of Margaret Morrison is 
sponsoring a stocking drive to fur
nish much needed silk and nylon 
to the government. If you can 
spare a torn old stocking or three, 
just walk it up to the third floor and 
dump it in the scrap box located in 
the side hall.
Donate your runners to snag the 
axis.
Carnegie Day . . .
Continued from Page 1
Associated with the production of 
aluminum for more than a quarter 
of a century, Mr. Jolly is a native of 
Western Pennsylvania. He attend
ed night school at Carnegie to study 
Mechanical Engineering while serv
ing as a machinists apprentice in 
the Pennsylvania Railroad shops. In 
1920 he became master mechanic at 
the Aluminum Company and four 
years was later promoted to super
intendent of maintenance. In 1937 
he became chief engineer and direc
tor of purchases, and two months 
ago was elevated to the vice-presi
dency.
He has supervised the designing, 
erecting, and operating of the 41 
major projects in the present alum
inum expansion program, a pro
gram which by the end of 1942 will 
increase this countrys production of 
aluminum seven times what it was 
in the peak years before the war.
This year there are 392 scholar
ship holders in the day school and 
62 in evening school. Thirty-seven 
students in the upper ten per cent 
of their classes and also thirty-seven 
holders of fellowships and teacher 
assistanceships were listed on the 
program. In developing the Carne
gie Day Program it has been the 
aim of the committee to give as 
much recognition as possible to 
scholastic performance, whether by 
individuals or by groups. Scholar
ship holders sat as a body in the 
hall.
Three honoraries made their an
nual calls. They were Phi Kappa 
Phi, Sigma Alpha Iota, and Tau 
Beta Pi.
Senior Interviews
On November 30, Carbide and 
Carbon Chemicals will have two 
representatives on campus.
The company wants Mechanical 
Engineers for Production Power, In
strument Control, and Machine 
Maintenance, Chemical Engineers 
for Design, Production, Instrument 
Control and Development, Chemists 
for Research and Development, 
Electrical Engineers for Instrument 
Control, and Civil Engineers for 
Structural Construction.
Job Will Address 
National Meeting
Thomas Job, associate Professor 
of Drama at Carnegie Tech and 
author of Uncle Harry, recent 
Broadway hit, will take part in the 
annual meeting of the National 
Theater Conference to be held Fri
day and Saturday, November 27 and 
28 in New York City. This confer
ence will be distinguished by two 
main themesthe relationship that 
exists or might exist between the 
professional and non-profit theatres; 
and the policies and objectives of a 
wartime theatre. Mr. Job will ad
dress the Conference in conjunction 
with the first of these themes.
The National Theatre Conference 
is madeup of fifty leading university 
and community theatres throughout 
the country. Both the Carnegie Tech 
Drama Department and the Pitts
burgh Playhouse are member or
ganizations. Speakers on the pro
gram in addition to Mr. Job in
clude Paul Green, playwright, of 
the University of North Carolina, 
Antoinette Perry.
Maxwell Andersons play The 
Eve of St. Mark, was written es
pecially for the National Theatre 
Conference. This is an example of 
the relationship that will be dis
cussed at the meeting in line with 
the second theme of the confer
ences, that of the policies and ob
jectives of a wartime theatre. Be
cause of this fact, the members of 
the Conference will attend Mr. An
dersons play. After the perform
ance, Mr. Job and the other mem
bers of the group will go backstage 
where the stage-manager will ex
plain the mechanics of the produc
tion.
Compliments of
ERTL BAKING 
COMPANY
922 Second Avenue 
COurt 2815
Council Minutes
The meeting was called to order at 7:20 
p. m.
Absent: Messrs. Emberg, Hoppel, Sher, 
and Thompson.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Elections
Mr. Beatty moved for the approval of 
the elections held on November 17, 1942: 
President of Engineering Senate: Rob
ert Galbraith.
Vice President of Engineering Senate: 
Charles Jones.
Motion carried.
OLD BUSINESS
Mr. Van Arsdell read the proposed re
visions to the Student Council Constitu
tion. Included in the revisions are pro
vision for proportional representation 
and the matter of jurisdiction in campus 
activities.
Mr. McDonald moved that Student 
Council approve the changes made and 
revise it in accordance with the way it 
was presented.
No action was taken; the matter will be 
acted upon later.
NEW BUSINESS 
Mr. Van Arsdell passed out information 
regarding Student Councils part in Car
negie Day.
Mr. Van Arsdell said that it has been 
suggested that the Christmas Chapel be 
moved from December 15 to December 8. 
It was the opinion of the Council that it 
would be better to let the chapel re
main on the original date.
Mr. Van Arsdell reminded Council com
mittee chairmen that reports of their ac
tivities must be handed to the Secretary 
on December 8, 1942.
Mr. Curry moved that any of the mem
bers of an organization which gives an 
all-school dance or party shall be admit
ted free of charge. Those members will 
be selected by the organization.
Mr. Schatz moved that Mr. Currys 
motion be tabled for at least one week 
and that the matter be acted upon next 
week.
Motion carried.
Results of the election of Student Coun
cil officers are as follows:
President........... Robert Galbraith
Vice President. ..............Charles Jones
Treasurer ........................ James Boyce
Secretary ...................Elizabeth Beall
Adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
LUCILLE ORR, Secretary.
Best Wishes
FOUNDERS
DAY
- - - from - - -
CITY ICE &
FUEL CO.
HHHOiUUUHa...............
Thanksgiving Nigbt
The Schenley "$oei pnmal
and every Saturday night thereafter, 
featuring the music of
Billy Hinds and his Orchestra
? ? ? ? 10 P. M. ? ? ? ?
Beginning 
Friday, December 4tli /
Informal Dancing
every Friday night
$1.00 per person (plus tax) Reservations
Including midnight supper Call MAyflower 6400
HOTEL SCHENLEY

---------------------------------------------------

12THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 1942
J. B.
The Editor 
Carnegie Tartan 
Dear Sir:
A few months ago, when I re
viewed the first play, I was a little 
concerned by the way in which the 
Drama Department, both faculty 
and students, received the opinions 
of one so untutored in the ways of 
the theater; they apparently believe 
that it is the perogative of their de
partment, and their department 
alone, to comment publicly on their 
own handiwork. Given as the 
drama students are to hyperbole, 
their tales, taken at half face value, 
indicated that their faculty was 
prostrate with rage. The students 
themselves, assuming that the inter
loper had no knowledge of the intri
cacies of acting, designed to take lit
tle notice of the Tartans latest col
umn, save to read each review sol
emnly and without comment; with
out comment, that is, within ear
shot of either myself or those who
Let's go to
ISALY'S
MILK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM CONES
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the College 
District 
5808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Allies
.   On Dramats
could report to me.
Granted I have no knowledge 
of the aforementioned intricacies, 
wouldnt that be more of a help than 
a hindrance? I know nothing of stage 
composition or movement or all 
those technical subtleties which are 
lost to the layman, but I am enter
tained, or not, as the case may be, 
as a layman, and not as one of the 
initiated. In the past, the reviews 
were confined, as far as I can gather, 
to clucks of praise for the more tal
ented, and a kind word for the 
weak. I realize that not all of the 
performances can be of a profession
al calibre, that the actors are still 
students, but, even as students they 
are outstanding, acceptable, or poor. 
A play must be judged as a whole, 
one player contrasted to or compar
er with another, the merits of one 
and the faults of the other discuss
ed; isnt that the purpose of a re
view? That has been my policy and 
will continue to be as long as I am 
writing for the Tartan.
I weary of this incognito, and I 
think the cloak of mystery wears a 
trifle thin; when I dispense with it, 
it will be of my own volition, and 
not through the efforts of those who 
said that J. B. could be forced to re
veal his identity.
Truly Yours,
J. B.
FORMAL 
CLOTHES
FOR ALL 
OCCASIONS
DRESS SUIT 
RENTAL CO.
402-404 Pittsburgh 
Life Building 
PITTSBURGH, PA. 
ATlantic 2346
Compliments
... of -
ASSOCIATED EGG PRODUCERS
RECEIVING STATION 
Phone FAirfax 4848 1254 Stedman Street
North SidePittsburgh, Pa.
i > V ' ' 5; I * I M - '
.....   e -, is mna
Photo by Bill Hulslander
Colonel F. T. Bass and Lieutenant T. J. Collum of Carnegie Techs 
Department of Military Science and Tactics review the current world sit
uation in Europe.
Theta Tail Initiates 
Nine New Members
Nine engineers were pledged in
to Theta Tau, national engineering 
fraternity, at the initiation cere
monies which were held this past 
Sunday night. Last night a ban
quet was held for the new members, 
at which Professor Martin P. Chworowsky spoke on The Engineering 
Attitude and Democracy.
The new members are elected on 
a basis of scholarship, personality, 
and a general interest in Engineer
ing. All pledges are required to 
carry gears and paddles.
The pledges are:
1. Jim Hovis
2. Bob Wenston
3. George Salvaggio
4. Ted Bellan
5. Bill Newton
6. Henry Rosenblum
7. Mann is Neumann
8. Earl Obringer
9. Bob Dodds
Recital Will Feature 
Gloria Siegles Rondo
Students in the Department of 
Music will present their second re
cital of the season on Sunday, De
cember 6, in the Exhibition Room, 
Arts, at 8:15 P. M. The program to 
be presented will be a varied one 
featuring both piano and voice se
lections.
One of the numbers to be per
formed will be an original composi
tion by Gloria Siegle, a senior piano 
major. This talented musician has 
written a wealth of material, among 
which have been many popular 
songs for Scotch and Soda produc
tions. Her latest work, which she 
will play, is written in the modern 
idiom but adheres strictly to the 
first rondo form.
As Dr. J. Vick OBrien, head of 
the Music Department, said, It is 
modern yet musicala proof that 
such music can exist and still have 
form. The concert is open to the 
public; no tickets of admittance will 
be required.
Compliments
 of - - -
WM. SLATER & SONS
Raymond J. Slater
Funeral Directors

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 1942THE CARNEGIE TARTAN13
Women Grads Join 
The Armed Forces
You have heard a lot about the 
men grads in the armed forces, but 
what about the women? They are 
doing their part too. Never let it be 
said that a Tech woman shirks her 
duty to her country! The most re
cent survey shows that there are 
five alumnae in officer training or 
full-fledged officers with the 
WAACS, six officer candidates with 
the WAVES, and four graduates of 
the Nursing School in the United 
States Army.
Those women who answered the 
call of the WAACS are: Mildred
Barrett, Social Work 35; Lillian 
Dorsey, Drama 41; Bernadette Marlier, Arts Associate; Mary Louise 
Milligan, Secretarial 32; and Mrs. 
Charlotte Shuman Raddin, P & D 
22.
Answering the beckoning WAVES 
are: Mary E. Cummings, College
Grad Secretarial 36; Elizabeth Leaman, Home Economics 34; Dorothy 
Piper, General Studies 42; Veron
ica Yolpe, Household Economics 34; 
Geraldine Weightmen, Home Eco
nomics 39; and Frances Wright, P 
& D 36.
Lieutenants in the United States 
Army are Nursing Science students 
Florence Grieve 39 (Mrs. T. Mor
row McLenahan); Opal Harned 39, 
Rosanne Martin 42, and Rita 
Schmidt 40. Helen Tadowsky 39 
and Agnes Glunt 41 have enlisted 
and will be leaving with the West 
Penn Hospital United of Army 
nurses.
Edith Josphine James, Social 
Work 36, is with the Red Cross in 
Australia; and Florence Lutz, 
Household Economics 22, is at Sta
tion Hospital No. 21.
Serving in social agencies directly 
connected with the war effort is 
Ruth Buckwalter, S. W. 31, Assist
ant, who is Region Supervisor of U.
S. O.s operated by the YWCA in 
middle western, southwestern, and 
northwestern States, Emma Gar
vey, S. W. 30, is the Medical Social 
worker for the Red Cross at Lawson 
General Hospital, in Atlanta, Ga. 
Martha Slick, S. W. 32, is serving 
with the Home Service Correspond
ence of the American Red Cross in 
Washington, D. C.
Tau Beta Pi Calls 
New Officers During 
Banquet For Alumni
Tau Beta Pi will give its annual 
banquet for alumni and faculty 
members tomorrow at the College 
Club at 6:30 P. M. This year the or
ganization is honoring Professor W. 
Trinks, former head of the Depart
ment of Mechanical Engineering 
who is planning to retire. A. W. 
Robertson, Chairman of the Board 
of Westinghouse Electric and Manuracturing Company, will be the 
main speaker. Mr. Robertson has 
shown a particular interest in the 
Westinghouse Scholarship students 
at Tech.
Max Williams, former President 
of Tau Beta Pi, will turn over his 
gavel to DeWitt Lyon, who was 
elected to head the organization, 
Friday, November 13. Other officers 
who were elected at the same time 
and will assume their new positions 
are: Vice President, John Lindberg; 
Treasurer, Harold Dickson; Corres
ponding Secretary, Robert Pogue; 
Recording Secretary, William Car
ter; Cataloguer, Marvin Goldberger; 
and Parliamentarian, James Rice.
Fashion Awards Offered
Tobe-Coburn School for Fashion 
Careers, in New York, has announc
ed that five Fashion Fellowships 
will be awarded to senior women in 
nation-wide competition. All Tech 
senior women are eligible to com
pete in this contest. This school of
fers classes in various fields of fash
ion, such as merchandising, dis
play, fashion advertising, and fash
ion coordinating.
A Letter to Seniors containing 
complete information about this 
contest and registration blanks are 
put out by the school. A copy may 
be obtained in the office of Miss Vir
ginia Alexander, head of the Cos
tume Economics Department in 
Margaret Morrison.
On the Lighter Sideby Art North
FOR THE 
INTERFRATERNITY FORMAL
ALPHA 
DRESS 
SUIT CO.
Complete Rental Service of 
Mens Formal Clothes 
SPECIAL STUDENT RATES 
PHONE AT. 1331 
3007 Jenkins Arcade
Best Wishes
On Carnegie Day
- - from 
CRAIG-FORBES PHARMACY
I Hear He Keeps Flunking Physical Education
Freshmen Entertained
Something new has been added! 
In order to meet Margaret Morrison 
freshmen informally, Dr. and Mrs. 
Watkins have invited them to a 
series of buffet suppers in their 
home on Darlington Road. In order 
to avoid overcrowding and confu
sion, the girls have been divided in
to five sections. Also invited to 
these functions are Miss Christine 
McBride, Chairman of the Faculty 
Advisors, and Mrs. Edna Cranna, 
Class Advisor. Two groups have 
already enjoyed the hospitality of 
the Watkinses.
STUDENTS!
SuitsDresses 
Cleaned and Pressed.69c
SlacksSweaters 35C 
Cleaned and Pressed..
Campus Cleaners
4609 Forbes Street
We Call and Deliver
Compliments 
- - - of - - -
G. F. HIGGENS 
COMPANY
HEATING 
Wabash Building 
SOurt 5747
Compliments
- of
THE 
AUTOMATIC 
CIGARETTE 
SALES CO.
929 Fifth Avenue 
Pittsburgh, Pa.

---------------------------------------------------

14THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 1942
Tartan Wrestling Squad Shows Promise 
As Many Turn Out For Nightly Practice
Promising to be one of the best 
teams since its origin, the Tech 
wrestling squad has been practicing 
regularly in preparation for its ser
ies of meets to begin February 
ninth. It is anticipated that the 
squad will meet local teams at the 
gym each night that the Junior 
Varsity doesnt have a basketball 
game to preceed the regularly 
scheduled varsity competition.
Last year only fifteen men were 
on the rooster whereas thirty have 
reported this season and of these 
there are many outstanding wrest
lers. Coach Alexander seemed es
pecially enthusiastic over his heavy
weight contender, Larry Moorman, 
and the man who has given him 
plenty of competition, Jim McCulloch. His other outstanding star 
seems to be veteran Woody Trautman, who wrestles in the 155 
pound class. Others who occupy
the spot in their respective weight 
divisions might be mentioned. Sam 
West seems to hold down the num
ber one post in the 125 pound class 
while Rhodes Trautman, the broth
er of Woody, occupies first berth in 
the 135 pound division. There are 
two principal contenders for the 145 
pound class, the two being Doug 
Dobson and Mike Koutovas; while 
Eberly is holding down the 165 
pound division.
Although the above mentioned 
men are foremost contenders at the 
present time it is likely that others 
will be on top before the actual 
meets commence since practice 
meets are held every week to de
termine the winners in each weight 
division. At this present writing 
there are many new recruits who 
might very likely replace their su
periors in the near future.
Arrow HEADQUARTERSGREEN BROTHERS
440 Wood StreetDowntown
Arrow Gordon Is B. S. O. C.
*Big Shirt on Campus
A
LWAYS in a top spot in campus popularity 
u polls is Arrows Gordon Oxford shirtwith 
regular and button-down collars. Gordon fits 3rou 
perfectly, because it is cut on the Mitoga form-fit 
pattern. Whats more, it cant shrink more than a 
microscopic 1%, for it bears the Sanforized label. 
All for just a slight fee  $2.50.
Arrow ties are swell bosom companions for
Arrow shirts! $1 up.
? BUY U. S. WAS BONDS AND STAMM * ' V >,,.
ARROW SHIRTS
TIES  COLLARS  HANDKERCHIEFS . UNDERWEAR  SPORT SHIRTS
LEONARDS MENS SHOP
CAMPUS HEADQUARTERS 
ARROW PRODUCTS
Corner Forbes at Atwood
FRANK
MEN S WEAR
OPEN EVERY EVENING 
5872 FORBES STREET SQUIRREL HILL
Max Hannum Performs Double Duty, 
Heads News Bureau And Basketball
, By Don
Usually an article is written 
about a man who deserves credit to 
inform the people who he is and 
what he is doing. In this particular 
case neither of these questions need 
be answered except briefly since 
the man in question is known by 
practically everyone on campus, 
and his activities are equally well 
recognized.
This congenial even - tempered 
man has been basketball coach for 
the last ten years and for the last 
two years has been manager of the 
Tech news bureau. Needless to say, 
his name is Max Hannum.
Although few people would be
lieve it, Maxie, as the boys fa
miliarly call him, entered college in 
1916, worked on the Pittsburgh 
Press from 1919 to 1929, and has 
been at Tech for the last thirteen 
years.
Maxie has been married for many 
years; incidentally, his wife is quite 
sensational, according to reports re
ceived by this reporter. They have 
two children, one of whom is now 
playing basketball under the same 
coach that Maxie played under 
when in high school. The school in 
question is Crafton High, where 
Maxie matriculated before entering 
our rival institution, Pitt.
Maxies whole life has been cen
tered around his favorite hobby and 
occupation, athletics. This inter
est started in high school, where he 
played football, basketball, and 
baseball. At the time he was learn
ing to play basketball, an incident 
occurred which is still remembered 
in Crafton. During a practice, the 
coach told Maxie always to shoot 
the ball for the nearest basket when 
he received it. This was all very 
logical, since he played forward. 
However, when Crafton High met 
their first opponents of the season, 
Maxie was suddenly shifted to 
guard. On the touch-off the ball 
was tipped to Maxie who faithfully 
carried out instructions and made a 
superb shot which cleared the loop 
for two pointsto the opponents 
team!
Maxies athletic life at Pitt suffer-' 
ed considerably due to his weight. 
He tipped the scales at only 135 
pounds which wasnt conducive to 
the rough and tough football that 
Pitt was playing at the time. HowFrench
ever, Maxie was game until the 
coach told him to get off the field be
fore he was killed. Nevertheless, 
Maxie did play basketball and base
ball, although he admitted basket
ball was his weakest sport. How
ever, as far as interest was concern
ed, basketball always rated tops 
with him.
Coming to Tech in 1929, Max 
was installed as Publicity Director 
of Athletics. A review of his pre
vious activities indicates that he 
was just the man for this job. Be
sides participating in athletics, he 
wrote for the Pitt Weekly and from 
his freshman year to the time he 
came to Tech was associated with 
the Pittsburgh Press. Max worked 
up to the post of Assistant Sports 
Editor of the Press before relinguishing this post in favor of his job 
at Tech.
Basketball has been Maxies 
prime interest, naturally, since he 
started as coach in 1932. Since that 
time his boys have twice won the 
Eastern Intercollegiate Conference 
championship, once in 1935, and 
again in 1939, the last year of the 
Conference. However, Maxie is not 
one of those do or die coaches who 
fight to win at almost any cost. He 
is interested in the sport as a sport 
and not just to establish an enviable 
record or a row of trophies.
Compliments
... of - - -
STEEL PRODUCTS 
COMPANY
202 Bradley Street McKees Rocks, Pa.
Pittsburgh, Pa. Telephone FEderal 3300

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 1942THE CARNEGIE TARTAN15
Skibo Cagers Victors 
Against Westinghouse
Whipping into shape for their 
first game two weeks from this Fri
day, the Carnegie basketballers 
trounced the Westinghouse Appren
tices 46-32 in a practice encounter 
last Friday.
Led by sophomore George Marck, 
who garnered fourteen points, the 
Tech outfit spurted early in the 
third quarter and coasted to record 
the win. High man for the losers 
was Menase with four buckets and 
two foul tosses for his total of ten 
points. Coach Hannum started 
Showman and Marck as forwards, 
Brinn at center, Harry Smith and 
DeBortoli on the guard posts.
Westinghouse stopped this team 
with a tight zone defense and led at 
half time by 23-18. Unable to pen
etrate the zone, Tech was forced to 
play conservatively throughout the 
entire first two periods.
When the East Pittsburgh switch
ed to a man-for-man defense, 
early in the third quarter, Tech 
moved in fast and proceded to put 
the game on ice. With Showman 
and Brinn setting the pace, via the 
old pass and break, Tech outscored the opponents 1 to 5 in this setup. 
At this point, Hannum rushed Sher
man, Meyer, Kelly and Culbertson 
into the fray; they gathered four
teen points in lightning fashion 
while the weary Apprentices pick
ed up a meager four. The final 
count listed Tech on a long end of a 
46 to 32 score.
This practice game revealed 
many things for future reference: 
Marcks uncanny shooting from all 
angles; Smith and DeBortolis long 
range swishes; Showman and 
Brinn controlling both backboards 
as well as their stalwart offensive 
play; the racehorse speed of the 
second team plus its scrappy fight.
C. I. T. Intramural Table 
Tennis Season Underway
As of Saturday, November 21, we 
have the league standing of the In
tramural table tennis teams.
In League I, the Citcom team has 
so far put its irons in the fire by re
maining unbeaten till now. They 
have managed to defeat Henderson, 
Welch, and Scobell, and now look 
forward to a match with McGill. 
McGill up to this time also remains 
undefeated and the McGill-Citcom 
match will be a tough one for each 
team. McGill and Henderson will 
or may fight for the runer-up posi
tion in the last match on schedule.
In League II, the SAEs and 
PiKAs are unbeaten, and have 
good prospects of remaining so until 
they meet in the last match of their 
schedule. In League III, the un% *7<4e Zddvi An Edilorial
Sports Editor 
The Carnegie Tartan
There is a lot of talk about drop
ping football for the duration, and 
substituting a course of setting-up 
exercises commonly called intra
mural sport . . . Where is the 
enemy met? And where is that 
fighting spirit developed in order 
that the team may win found? The 
setting-up exercises are good in 
themselves but boring, because 
there is no Saturday's climax and 
no sacrifice of personal indulgence.
Football is a game of war, if ever 
there was one. It is tough, and needs 
every ounce of courage, determina
tion, and initiative in order to 
launch an all-out offensive to over
come the opponent when the going 
gets tough. The hours, days, and 
weeks of practice preceeding every 
contest teaches the player the value 
of drilling.
The coaches re constantly study
ing the opponents in advance and 
relating the findings to the team, 
just as officers study the enemy's 
strength and weaknesess, so that the 
energies and abilities can be direct
ed toward a final victory.
Football is a rehearsal of war. 
Tough, hard drilling, teamwork, 
quick split-second decisions, and all 
the other disciplinary factors which 
are the same as are found in the 
training of an army. Even if only 
the R. O. T. C. will be around next 
fall, intercollegiate football should 
find a place in their schedule. Look 
over the heores of todays war, and 
you will find that nearly all have 
had some part in football in their 
school days.
Most of us will be called to serve 
our country soon, and Ill be willing 
to wager that all those who have 
had a taste of this rugged game will 
be better equipped to serve the 
country. And when the time comes 
to face the enemy, the often called 
dumb football player will not be 
heading any retreats.
Thus, since it is obvious that foot
ball aids in our war effort, the ad
vantages should be well considered 
by the schools officials before any 
steps to abolish it are taken.
(Signed) Virgil Cantini
beaten DUs have an important 
match with the once beaten Tau 
Delts while the rest of this league 
will be a scramble for the runnerup position.
Here are the list of the teams that 
are in the various leagues:
Leagre I League II League III 
Citcom Pi Kappa Alpha Alpha Tau
Welch Sigma Nu Omega
Scobell Delta Tau Delta Phi Kappa
Henderson Beta Theta Pi Tau Delts
McGill Kappa Sigma Theta Xi
Boss Sigma Alpha Beta Sigs
Epsilon Delta Upsilon
DLPRYMEMDaam pusp TleIs eapLn rlDM
NO MLppaE DlW lmpMP YlU sMlYI ap
Athletic Trends At Tech
By Don Watkins, Sports Editor
To those of us who have been here at Tech for the four years since 
1939, sports have gone through a rather marked transition. We have seen 
the emphasis go from varsity sports to intramural athletics and other minor 
forms of athletic endeavor such as soccer, track, cross country, swimming, 
and even boxing. This has been notable due to the fact that immediately 
previous to 1939 the most popular of all varsity athletics, football, enjoy
ed a prime place in the attention of Carnegie students and offered much 
diversion to residents of Pittsburgh, a great many of whom were loyal fans 
of the Skibo grid squad.
What Caused This Change?
The transition which we have mentioned occurred very rapidly, and it 
was with great dislike that many of the students watched it take place. 
Arguments such as: We arent getting our moneys worth; It isnt good 
publicity for the school; and Its nothing but a grind school, were voiced 
from a howling mob of dissatisfied students.
Nevertheless, the inexorable hand of the administration continued to 
change until our football and basketball teams drew only students and 
not-so-proud parents of the members of. the team. Athletic scholarships 
were withdrawn along with the incentive for good players to attend Tech. 
1939, 1940, and 1941 proved to be gloomy years in the Carnegie sports an
nals. The various teams were the laughing stock of outside followers of 
Skibo athletics and even the students themselves joined in the derisive cry.
School spirit, wihch seems to be inevitably tied up to athletic prowess, 
went from a deafening roar to a dead silence. Frequent exhortations from 
zealous members of the student body proved to little avail the condition of 
Tech sports and athletic interest. The whole situation developed into a 
vicious circle which got worse and worse and reached its climax in the 
basketball season of 40-41 when the hoopsters lost every encounter of the 
entire circuit. The losing streak started by the team that year was carried 
well into the next season, but the jinx was finally broken and things be
gan to look up. Since that time, although the newspapers still like to use 
the Carnegie teams as victims of their satire, the athletic outlook has 
brightened until this year when Tech spirit was brought to a new high for 
recent seasons.
The Brighter Side
So far the picture has been one of almost total darkness. A great deal 
of good has resulted from this ostensibly sad transition. This good has 
been exemplified in the greatly increased interest in intramurals. The total 
adds up to a better sports world for Tech, especially in view of the recent 
swing back to a more normal athletic program.
The promotion of intramurals and the minor varsity athletics has led 
to the inevitable conclusion of greatly increased participation in athletics. 
A great number of students left their customary positions on the sidelines 
and transferred their pleasure from the vicarious to the actual. This 
change answers many of the objections raised at the time the de-emphasiz
ing program began. The school did not turn into a grind institution nor 
did the students fail to get their moneys worth.
The Balance
Our belief is that the varsity side deserves a stronger position than it 
now enjoys, but this should not take place at the expense of the gains 
made in other departments. Carnegie Tech should not allow its name to be 
connected with scholastic enterprise alone, but should take its place with 
any other universities in the athletic world. This can only be done by 
boosting the varsity standing of the school. We dont want teams that will 
compare with the Big Ten squads, but we would like to see our organiza
tions go into games as favorites instead of being eternally the underdogs.
the INTIMATE GIFT thats
ALWAYS APPROPRIATE
PAWhNTg NO CArS HSrOATaI WhaT haTdwrNWNTg
OIa For Him 
mcPMAno The Majofj
FEWQunDJDiilnlJENKNS ARCADTheCCarng1 LCIFTUl M-tPJTTSBURC
Pens of Best MakesSI to $10 
Name Engraved Free on Pens Bought Here
PEN AND PENCIL REPAIRING
Greeting Cards, Tallies and Favors
SINGER PEN & GIFT SHOP
Jenkins Arcade Pittsburgh

---------------------------------------------------

16THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 19423The Camelie plaid
Don Palmers Orchestra To Play 
For Evening Council Dance Nov. 28
Defense Bond To Be 
Given As Door Prize
Evening Student Council has an
nounced the date of the Annual 
Thanksgiving Dance as November 
28th. This affair has become a tra
dition with the evening students of 
Carnegie Tech and is looked for
ward to with great anticipation by 
all who have had the opportunity 
of attending one.
No effort is spared by Council in 
endeavoring to secure the best avail
able orchestra for this dance and 
this years choice, we believe, will 
meet with the approval of all inter
ested in dancing. Don Palmers Or
chestra will give out with its own 
unique style of sweet swing music, 
featuring the smooth solo renditions 
of the trombone player. Don Pal
mer is well known to the dancing 
crowd which frequents the Pitts
burgh hotels and nearby country 
clubs and he is also no stranger to 
those of us on Carnegie Tech cam
pus as he has played for the last 
three Christmas Dances held by the 
Evening College of Engineering.
It has been decided by Council 
that instead of presenting corsages 
to the attending ladies, as has been 
the custom of many previous dances, 
a $25.00 defense bond will be award
ed to the holders of the lucky num
ber, and it is hoped that, in addi
tion to being a patriotic gesture, it 
will be that extra added attrac
tion which will bring out the 
crowd.
Thistle Hall is the scene set for 
this dance and, of course, the much 
discussed and well remembered 
crystal ball will be much in evi
dence to lend its brilliance in creat
ing an air of romance and mystery.
Of course, you all know that this 
is a Student Council Dance and the 
admission charge is to be $1.10 per 
couple, but the cost is a small item 
when, judging by past affairs, such 
a good time is anticipated. Show 
your school spirit! Bring your best 
girl, or beau, and enliven your hol
iday vacation with a really bang-up 
celebration.
Vacation For All
At last! A Friday night free for 
a date. Not that we all have dates; 
if we do, we are just plain lucky. 
The Plaid workers are going to 
have a vacation so their poor brains 
will be able to get back into the 
swing of things. Now dont get us 
wrong, Friday nights are more fun 
than a circus, and we are sure you 
have all been to the circus at least 
once.
You see, this is Thanksgiving va
cation so we are going to lay off. 
That means no school Thursday, 
Friday, and Saturday.
Now please dont worry too much. 
The Plaid will be published on 
December 8 in its distinctive style.
A1 Flanders Active 
As Eng. Treasurer 
And Social Chairman
Youre liable to see him puttering 
around in Engineering, where he is 
a metallurgy major, or you might 
see him at the Union working on 
some activity. He hopes eventually 
to get his degree, for hes been com
ing to Tech for the last six years
NEW TWOSOME (and far from 
gruesome) Phil Boyle and Mary 
Jo Webershe calls him Bud . . . 
Bill Hurtt and his ladylove at the 
dance. Bills waiting for a call from 
the Air Corps . . . The Ed Tiepels 
were seen romancin in the dark 
corners of the Black Cat . . . Fash
ion NoteOur Editor, the only gal 
in the place with a corsagesuch 
extravagance! Should have been 
orchids, fair editor, for the fun and 
entertainment last Friday night at 
the Bowling Party? . . . Who is the 
vivacious blonde attraction at the 
Roxarena?  Ask the man who 
knowsBob Poznansky . . . John 
Hundertmark proved to be worth 
his weight in gold last Saturday aft
ernoon to the decorating committee 
Scaling tottering ladders didnt 
bother him ... Is his face redand 
boy it should be!That BRUTE, 
Bob King, is beating his wife again 
(at bowling of course) . . . Correc
tion  Not blonde but a lovely 
brunette glamor puss with Ed Wil
liams at the shindig . . . Lenigan 
and Flaherty (methinks theyre go
ing steady) were lone rangers at the 
danceBob has been nursing a 
bruised hand ever since  Nobody 
seems to know how it happened  
not even Bob  he says! . . . A1 
Cassanova Flanders has tech
nique, but plenty!He may be seen 
squiring not one but two girls -7- 
Havent you heard about rationing, 
Al? . . . The Russ Lahrs latest 
bundle from heaven must be just 
about the right size to roast for 
Thanksgiving . . . Ted Hamilton 
had a priority rating with his very 
lovely partner at the dance  No 
wonder, they really cut a mean 
rug together . . . All of the boys 
are wondering if the lady in red, 
Bill Bemus partner at the dance, 
has a sisterOh Boy! ... The stu
dents who generally go swimming 
on Wednesday evenings had to take 
their baths at home last weekRea
son, no chlorine for the water . . . 
We understand that certain bowling 
alleys are bidding for Chuck Merrits serviceshe did a nifty job of 
setting up pins for his fellow art 
students . . . Wonder what was so 
interesting to that group sitting in 
a circle with their heads together at 
the dancebet they werent talking 
politics . . . John Hundertmark, 
new member of the Plaid staff, 
blushes a vivid scarlet at the slight
est mention of his name appearing 
in printOh, Johnnie!
The Carnegie Plaid
Page edited by Evening rscnool Students of 
Carnegie Institute of Technology. All views of 
opinions expressed in editorial column are not 
necessarily endorsed by the Editorial Board of 
the Day School staff.
Editor 
Nancy E. Lewis 
Associate Editor of Engineering 
Robert C. King 
Associate Editor of Fine Arts 
Marion Frost
June Apel 
Philip Boyle 
John Castellano 
James Flaherty 
Albert Flanders 
Mary Hensler 
Albert Kerstukos
Staff
Mary Jo Weber
Robert Lenigan 
Edward A. Macha S. W. Marcinizyn 
D. Pettigrew, Jr. 
Pearl Pettola 
Robert Poznanski 
Joseph M. Rymar
Decorating Assistants Needed 
For Thanksgiving Jamboree
following his graduation from Carrick High in 1937. In addition to 
avoiding languages as much as pos
sible in high school, he played, of all 
things, the Oboe.
He spends his forty hours a week 
at the Irvin plant of the Carnegie Il
linois Steel Corporation, where he 
is the metallurgist working on tin 
mill complaints.
On campus this year he holds two 
important positionsnamely, Treas
urer of the Evening School of Engi
neering, and Chairman of the Stu
dent Council Social Committee. At 
the moment hes wracking his brain 
over turkey-less dance decorations 
for the Thanksgiving Dance (plug.)
For two consecutive years he has 
won insignia awards and last year 
he won the Activity Scholarship for 
the Engineering School.
On the distaff side, he enjoys 
dancing, but strictly in the style of 
Guy Lombardo or some similiar 
smoothie. Bowling and swimming, 
his favorite sports, also take up a 
good bit of his time, when hes not 
at the Greeks.
Incidentally, in case you didnt 
know, his name is Al Flanders.
Handbooks Gather Dust 
Come and Get Em
All that fuss about not having the 
handbooks at the time of registra
tion, and the handbooks are still sit
ting around waiting for the stu
dents to come and get them.
Maybe some of you students have 
never seen a handbook. You know 
they really should be called Handi-books cause they answer more 
purposes than enough. Engineers, 
they are a perfect place to keep 
those phone numbers. By looking 
in the handbook you can see just 
when anything is going to happen 
that iswhen and if it ever does.
Ah gee, come over to the Admin
istration Hall and get your hand
book NOW. Theyre free  no 
chargegratis.
*7 *7/ie Contiu
Space did not permit my answer
ing the letters printed in previous 
issues at the time they were pub
lished. The following should take 
care of the suggestion printed in 
the November 10 issue.
Evening Student Council has un
der consideration a plan whereby 
the Colleges of Fine Arts and In
dustries, in the event they have 
no eligible students when the final 
check is made this week, may be 
represented at Council Meetings.
The representatives, chosen from 
the active students in each college 
will be invited to sit in on the meet
ing and voice their opinions, but 
will not have the power to vote.
In fairness to all, and in order 
that Council may function with the 
support of all colleges, I believe this 
the only solution to the problem at 
hand.
As suggested, in a recent letter 
To the Editor, to lower the stand
ards of eligibility, would be, in my 
opinion, contrary to the purpose of 
the organization. Council is, and 
should be, composed of ACTIVE 
students from the campus. There
fore, the one rule which must not 
change, and which is gumming up 
the works is that which states a 
student must have earned an Insig
nia Award.
There are many active students 
who should be considered to rep
resent their college and it is guar
anteed they will be selected through 
merit, only.
Stu&e+tt'i ctiaven
The Carnegie Union, perhaps the 
most delightful building on the cam
pus is the least used. The splendid 
facilities for an evenings entertain
ment include everything from pi
anos to ping pong tables. The hand
book, on page 65, lists these facili
ties in detail.
The students of Industries, Arts, 
Margaret Morrison, and Engineer
ing are encouraged to make use of 
this haven to further their enjoy
ment ol campus life. Just as all 
work and no play makes Jack (or 
Jessie) a dull boy (or skirt), the 
rigorous routine of working, school
ing, studying, and sleeping off the 
effects, is too taxing if no relaxa
tion such as the Union affords, is 
enjoyed. Lets say we all come out 
and enjoy the above mentioned 
delights and were sure you will 
find the fellowship enjoyed well 
worth the time spent. You will find 
the hostess Mrs. Hespenheide and 
Mrs. Yon ready to lend a helping 
hand with a kind word.
