The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 39 No. 7CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1945
Mens Honorary 
Now Reactivated
Omicron Delta Kappa, Senior 
Mens Honorary, is being reactivat
ed on the Carnegie Tech campus 
this semester. It has been inactive 
during the war, during which time 
a faculty group consisting of Pres. 
Doherty, Dean Warden, Prof. Prowell, Prof. Muhlenbruch and Max E. 
Hannum have carried on.
The new student members are: 
Robert K. Noyes, Harold A. Gottesman, Louis A. Umbach, Jr., Andrew 
J. Pepper, Irwin M. Aisenberg, 
Merle T. Wolff, Robert L. Skinkle, 
John H. Seipel, August Binder, Rob
ert Straka, and Joseph Nutter.
Called from the faculty were: 
Director Webster N. Jones, Profes
sor John M. Daniels, and Professor 
Robert D. Gregg.
The Tech Chapter of Omicron 
Delta Kappa was formed when the 
Dragon Society, the Tech Senior 
Mens Honorary, went national on 
Sept. 19, 1942. Both men from Fine 
Arts and Engineering are eligible. 
To qualify, men must be outstand
ing in activities and keep a certain 
standard in class.
The national, Omicron Delta Kap
pa, was formed in 1914 at Washing
ton and Lee University. It now has 
chapters in 49 colleges. The purposes 
of the society are to further scholar
ship, athletics, publications and oth
er activities.
Home Ec Major Wins 
Mademoiselle Contest
The November issue of Made
moiselle magazine contained news 
of great interest to our campus; the 
winners of the national Mademoi
selle dress design contest were pub
lished. Third prize, a $25 war bond, 
was awarded to Joanne Hawley, a 
clothing and design major in the 
Home Economics Department, for 
designing a winter date dress. The 
dress was a very formal street 
length creation of heavy white ray
on crepe, styled with a Grecian 
shoulder line and featuring one de
tachable sleeve buttoned at the 
shoulder with gold leather buttons. 
It is the type of which every college 
girl dreams and one for which she 
will find increasing use now that 
social activities are again filling her 
calendar.
Notice
Hurry! Hurry! Here is your op
portunity to get your picture in this 
years Thistle. We need candid snap
shots for our general candid pages. 
Everyone wants his picture in the 
yearbook, but it is impossible for 
us to grant that wish unless you co
operate and give us any pictures 
you might have of campus activities, 
such as, banquets, dances, or that 
present B. M. O. C. The Thistle office 
is on the 3rd floor of the Union. Why 
delay! Turn them in today!
Dr. Koo to Speak at 
Student Christian 
Movement Banquet
Pittsburgh will have an eventful 
weekend on December 7 and 8 when 
students from Pitt, Tech, and P.C.W. 
will have the pleasure of hearing 
Dr. T. Z. Koo speak at the Student 
Christian Movement Dinner. The 
dinner, at a cost of $1.00 per person, 
will take place at the East Liberty 
United Presbyterian Church Friday, 
Dec. 7, at 6 oclock, and will be fol
lowed by a program led by Dr. Koo.
Dr. Koo should prove to be one 
of the most interesting personages 
the students have heard in a long 
time. He has just returned to the 
United States after spending three 
years in China under the watchful 
eyes of the Japanese, during which 
time he was able to observe their 
ways of bringing in their East Asia 
Co-prosperity Sphere. Dr. Koo is 
a world citizen. He interprets the 
Christian message not only with the 
practical directness of the East and 
the wealth of Oriental insight but 
also from the viewpoint of world 
statesmanship. Picturesque in his 
Chinese dress, he speaks with the 
power of a prophet, the sagacity of 
a sage, and the grace of an artist. 
When he discusses the Oriental sit
uation, it is as a statesman of the 
New Day, with full understanding 
of the causes and with remarkable 
insight into the future. On informal 
occasions Dr. Koo may be persuaded 
to produce his flute and enthrall his 
listeners with Chinese airs, plain
tive and gay-traditional songs of the 
centuries. He will have the students 
help during the evening when they 
will give color to the program by 
wearing the native costumes of 
countries of the world.
The complete success of the occa
sion has been assured by the en
thusiasm of the students of Tech, 
Pitt, and P.C.W. Some of the Tech 
students on the committee are Wini
fred Schultz, decorations commit
tee; Jean Norris, C.W.C.A.; Lou 
Emmel, tickets and publicity; John 
Siepel and Bob Straka, Y.M.C.A.; 
Janet Whitney; and Jean Garland. 
Any of these students or Mr. Davis 
will be selling tickets for the dinner.
Notice
All students must be in school the 
Wednesday before Thanksgiving 
and the Monday afterwards.
Womens Guild Thanksgiving Ball 
Proves To Be Successful Affair
It was a Thanksgiving dance with all the trimmings as hundreds 
of Techites circled the gayly decorated gym floor to the music of Brad 
Hunt. The girls were draped in the latest in evening dresses and a few of 
the boys broke their tuxes out of the moth balls to give last Saturdays 
Womens Guild girl-date-boy affair the years first taste of formality.
Brad Hunt and his orchestra with their right combination of current 
hits and fast numbers plus a few old ones,, a number of Latin American 
rhythms, and a couple special arrangements had all the variety of the 
juke-box down at the Greeks (paid advt.). The vocal spotlight shone on 
Miss Jeanne Birdseye, and a short interlude strictly for listening pleasure 
featured Miss Mary Lou Nolte at the keyboard with the boys in the band 
supplying the background.
The honors of the evening went to 
Lu West and Dick Andre. By special 
permission the Womens Guild held 
a surprise raffle in the name offClltiei. Ane. Gosyu+uj,
Techs Football Team 
Will Play Next Year
Break out the Kiltie Band and 
strike up the opening bars of Fight 
for "the Glory of Carnegie for here 
is that official announcement you 
rah-rah collegians have dreamed 
about: The Athletic Board of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology 
has definitely decided to resume 
Varsity Football in 1946.
It has been announced that the 
break into big-time competition will 
necessarily be gradual. For the first 
few years Tech students will have 
to be content with cheering the squad 
to victory over other colleges of 
the same caliber. Sadness comes 
from the release of the statement 
that the Tartans will not play Pitt 
next year. It is quite probable that 
some time will elapse before Beat 
Pitt again becomes the campus 
watchword. As yet only a tentative 
schedule has been drawn and noth
ing has been given out for publica
tion that would indicate who next 
years opponents will be.
Though it is not in direct line 
with the usual policy of the school, 
it is expected that there will be a 
few weeks of training this spring 
in an effort to compensate for the 
long period of inactivity. The con
tract for the Pitt Bowl has expired, 
but as yet the Athletic Board has 
not selected the site for next years 
home battles. They are surveying 
the situation with an eye to obtain
ing the best Pittsburgh has to offer.
While the news is great, so are the 
pains that will have to be alkalized 
before Tech starts accepting invi
tations to the various bowl games.
On the heels of the big news 
comes the promise that, if enough 
interest is shown, intercollegiate 
track, tennis, and golf will be back 
on the campus by spring.
Citcom Holds Meeting, 
Elects New Officers
At a meeting held on November 
14th the Citcom Clan elected offi
cers. The president is Paul Sapsara, 
vice president Judy dAmbrosi, sec
retary Peggy Grossman, and treas
urer Renato DcNarardes.
Plans for the party to be held at 
Thistle Hall on November 21st were 
completed, and the group was told 
about the proposed trip to Geneva 
for the first away basketball game.
Continued on page 2
Happy Dancers 
charity on which just about every 
one took a chance. When the win
ning ticket was drawn, Dick and 
Lu found themselves richer by one 
live turkey, plus the crate to keep 
him in and the food to keep him 
going until Thanksgiving. At pres
ent he is the pride and joy of the 
DU back porch, but failure to get 
an additional plane reservation for 
the holiday will keep the gobbler 
continued on page 7
Bond Queen Contest 
Passes Midway Point
Carnegies own Victory Bond 
Drive, the last one you can partici
pate in, has now reached the half
way mark. With only three weeks 
left till the night of December 14 
when the Drive will culminate in 
the naming of a Victory Bond Queen 
at the Student Council Winter 
Dance, this bond drive is finally ob
taining the support it so richly de
serves. Iris Kwall, chairman of the 
Student War Finance Committee, 
has announced that Tech students 
and their friends (including the fac
ulty) have subscribed $41,638.75 
worth of Victory Bonds.
The girls participating in the Bond 
Queen Sweepstakes are running as 
follows:
Peggy Nelis, Sigma Kappa,
$18,181.25 
Dorothy Feldman, Alpha Epsilon
Phi .............................$10,631.50
Carroll Henson, Delta Delta
Delta ...........................$6,818.75
continued on page 4

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1945
ZdUo*'. AbmcUcUt
Tell Ya What Theyre Gonna Do!!!
All the kiddies have been griping about practically everything in 
Skibo for the past few weeks. They dont like the prices; they dont like 
the service; and they hate to carry out those trays. They dont like the 
Saturday jam, and theyre longing for a canteen, too. After stewing over 
their complaints for quite some time, a few of the students got together 
with the administration last week and attempted to iron out the difficulties. 
Were going to pass on to you the decisions and conclusions reached by 
this committee in their little two hour session. If you dont like em, hand 
in some suggestions of your own.
About Prices
The sherlocks on campus have been going around peering into little 
notebooks full of figures ever since the beginning of the fall term. They 
think they have deduced from carefully collected data that prices in Skibo 
have gone up about five cents per item over what was charged in the 
Inn during the summer. They are very bitter about this. They think some
one in the administration is building a private swimming pool in Schenley 
park with the extra nickels hes collecting from poor innocent (?) young 
Techites. The truth of the matter is that the only difference in prices to 
be found this year stems from the fact that items of food are being sold 
a la carte entirely now while last year they were sold table dhote as well. 
(Separately and in bunches to you. In bunches its cheaper). The reason 
for the change is that right now the Commons Department which handles 
the campus eateries is strictly in the hole financially speaking. The Inn op
erated at a considerable loss this summer because so few people ate there 
and since it is the policy of the Administration to run their restaurant fa
cilities at neither a profit nor a loss, the deficit must be made up. There 
are several economy measures, some planned by the administration and 
some dreamed up by the student committee, which will be put into effect 
soon in Skibo. If these are effective, good old table dhote will be with us 
again soon. Nothing can temporarily be done then about prices. But re
member kiddies, Skibo is still the cheapest eatery in Pittsburgh, so keep 
smiling.
About Service
It seems that thing is tuff all over these days and even though the ad
ministration isnt blessed with midterms, things is ruff with them too. The 
wartime manpower shortage, like the housing situation, is still acute in 
Pittsburgh. You arent getting through that Coffee Shop line because there 
are ten less people working in Skibo than the original plans called for. 
Nothing can be done about that right now either. All of which brings us 
to that touchy little item, the tray carrying problem. Here we have one of 
those vicious circles which must have escaped from a math class some
where. If the few people who are working in Skibo carry out your tray 
they wont have time to fry your steak or dish up your ice cream and vice 
versa. Which would you rather have, necessity or luxury?
About Saturdays
Now here we have a case about which something is actually gonna be 
done. All the Arts Students, Maggie Murphs, profs, and engineers along 
with a thousand or so of those grade school junior commandos have been 
having a simply horrible time trying to crowd into the Coffee Shop at 
noon on Saturdays. The committee has decided to remedy the situation by 
opening the big room  there must be a better name for that place  
instead of the Coffee Shop for the noon crowd. This will provide more 
space for eating and more room for seating like mad. Now youre going to 
howl! The same plan will be put into operation during the dinner hour 
on week nights. In order to provide better service without employing as 
many people, food will be served only in the large cafeteria during the 
evening. This plan will save more money, and will help to bring back those 
economy priced meals in a hurry. You neednt be too unhappy, because 
the doors of the Coffee Shop will still be open, and you can ramble in 
there with your trays.
About a Canteen
Things are really moving here. Redecoration of the old Grill under the 
Inn is already under way. The administration realizes that the Grill is 
rather far away, however, and other sites for a recreation center are still 
being considered. It wont be long before well have a real place to play, 
but until we do, please eat in the big room so that the bridge fiends will 
have a little room to play in the coffee shop.
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the staff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
Student Council Minutes
The Carnegie Tartan
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
PHONE MAYFLOWEB 2600 * PHONE SCHENLEY 4557
MMNMMMTSD POM NATIONAL DVIKTKINO V
National Advertising Service, Inc. After office Hours Cali
College Publishers Representative Editor-in-chief ......................SC. 6519420 TheCaer hngi rtO mecgi rioi Business Manager.................EM. 9424
Studeen  BoConc  Lot Anaiui  iec lcecduMdn
Entered as second-class matter in the Pittsburgh Post Office under the Act of March 3, 1879. 
Published weekly during school year, except holidays and examination periods. 
Subscription Price $1.10 per year.
Editor ... .....................................................................................................Clara Herron
Business Manager ......................................................................................... Harold Gottesman
Managing Editor .....................................................................................................Augie Binder
Sports Editor ...................................................................................................  Don Clendennen
News Editor ............................................................................................... Mary Jane Horridge
Copy Editor .................................................................................................................. Boo Girts
Photographer ................................................................................................................ Dan Franks
Headline Editor....................................................................................................... Ben Schwartz
Sixth Meeting, 1945-46 
November 11, 1945.
The meeting was called to order at 7:30 
p. m.
Present: Misses Clark, Horridge,
Haushalter, Price, Irwin; Messrs. Aisenberg, Binder, Lakowski, Nutter, Straka, 
Stine, and Yurchison.
COMMITTEE REPORTS:
Freshman Regulations Committee:
Miss Clark moved that the following 
changes in the Freshman Regulations be 
sent to Dean Warden:
Section 2Part 1.
Freshman Regulations shall be appli
cable from the first day of registration 
until the Freshman has complied with 
Regulations to the satisfaction of the 
Freshman Regulations and Orientation 
Committee.
Section 3Part 2.
Freshman must speak to all students 
on campusboth male and female.
Section 3Part 3c (combine c and d).
The above artices will be sold, at cost,
I.R.C. Will Discuss 
Eastern Asia Revolt
This Wednesday the Internation
al Relations Club will continue its 
series of discussions on vital prob
lems in todays news with a meeting 
devoted to The Revolt in Eastern 
Asia. The meeting will begin at 
four oclock in Room 102, Margaret 
Morrison; it is open to students of 
all schools, and interested people are 
cordially invited to attend.
So far this semester IRC has held 
three successful meetings about 
The Palestine Situation, China 
in the News, and The Future of 
Spain respectively. The new policy 
of the club is to invite people who 
have special interest of information 
on the particular subject under dis
cussion to come and give new im
petus to the group. Thus, at the 
meeting on Palestine the members 
of the newly-formed campus Zionist 
group and Dr. Estermann, sponsor 
of the old campus Zionist organ
ization which died quietly three 
years ago, were present to answer 
some of the questions which came 
up. Four Chinese students arrived 
on the afternoon that was devoted 
to China, giving the girls in the 
club an opportunity not only to hear 
their views on present developments 
in their homeland but also to meet 
them after months of wondering 
who they were. The meting on 
Spain was also attended by Prof. 
Alemany, who was born in Spain, 
and three South American students, 
one of whom was born in Spain too. 
All three meetings proved of great 
interest to those present, as shown 
by the fact that there was a succes
sively greater attendance at each 
meeting.
Citcom
continued from page 1 
Since the bus will hold only thirtythree, the first ones to sign up and 
pay their two dollars, (which in
cludes round trip ticket and admis
sion to the game) will get the seats. 
Any member of Citcom may go; 
just remember to sign up early.
Members, dont forget the party 
Wednesday at Thistle Hall; admis
sion is only thirty cents. You may 
bring your yoyo, or your lovely new 
doll, or even your marbles and 
jacks. In better English bring those 
little things you use to relax what 
is left of your mind after youve 
finished that English theme. But 
whatever else you bring dont for
get to bring yourself.
to Freshmen at registration and must be 
worn until he has passed the Traditions 
Examination.
Note: The interpretation of these rules 
will be directed by the Freshmen Regula
tions and Orientation Committee.
Motion carried.
Budget Committee:
It was moved that the Scottie budget be 
approved by Student Council.
Motion carried.
The Technical budget is to be revised 
and presented next week. -
As yet the Tecvets have not handed in 
a budget. It was requested that they do 
so this week.
Social Committee:
Mr. Aisenberg moved that the budget 
for the Autumn Frolic Dance held No
vember 3, 1945, be approved.
Motion carried.
Mr. Aisenberg moved that the follow
ing petitions be approved:
Mortar Board petitions Student Coun
cil for permission to hold a coffee for 
the faculty and members of Mortar Board 
on Tuesday, November 27, 1945, from 8:00 
to 9:30 p. m. in the Union.
Citcom Clan petitions Student Council 
to hold a party in Thistle Hall on Wed
nesday, November 21, 1945, from 8:00 to 
12:00.
Motion carried.
The Womens Guild asked permission 
of the Student Council for the use of the 
screens and flats from the Student Coun
cil Room in the gymnasium. The Guild 
also wished to request the right to use 
wood and wire to be found in the Coun
cil Room.
Mr. Aisenberg moved that this permis
sion be granted.
Motion carried.
Mr. Yurchison moved that any organi
zation wishing to use Student Council 
property must pay a fee of $10 for any 
property which is not returned in addition 
to their regular rental fee of $5.
Motion carried.
Mortar Board requested that Student 
Council give them a list of possible dates 
to hold a Formal Dance next semester.
Mr. Aisenberg moved that the Social 
Chairman of an organization holding an 
All-School Dance give to every person 
decorating for it one point maximum for 
two hours work.
Motion carried.
Assembly Committee:
Miss Haushalter reported that the Car
negie Day Assembly Program is well un
der wayspeakers are being contacted, 
the Glee Club (Mens) v will sing, and 
Mary Laura Wood will say a few words. 
Spring Carnival Committee:
Mr. Nutter reported that plans for the 
Spring Carnival were being formulated. 
It was suggested that a miniature Scotch 
and Soda be held one night, and that 
orchestras for this affair be investigated.
NEW BUSINESS:
Mr. Lakowski was appointed Publicity 
Chairman of Student Council. Mr. Yurch
ison suggested that a bulletin board be 
placed on the site of the old Canteen for 
the students who do not pass the En
gineering Hall Bulletin Board.
Mr. Aisenberg suggested that pep ral
lies be held before basketball games.
The meeting was adjourned at 10:00 
p. m.
Respectfully submitted,
Barbara Irwin.
Foreign Policy Assn 
Plans Important Meeting
Russia, America, and the Future 
is the vital topic that will be discuss
ed at the Cornegie Music Hall, No
vember 26 at 8:15 under the aus
pices of the Foreign Policy Associa
tion of Pittsburgh. Tickets to this 
very important discussion for mem
bers and non-members, student and 
faculty, may be secured from Pro
fessor Gregg, 129A Industries Hall, 
at a number of downtown stores, or 
at the box-office on the evening of 
the lecture.
Louis Fischer, war correspondent, 
lecturer, and author; David Dallin, 
Russian author and economist; and 
Reverend Irving Murray, pastor of 
the First Unitarian Church and 
chairman of the Pittsburgh Council 
of American Soviet Friendship, will 
be the speakers.

---------------------------------------------------

Just the two of us.Mobs and mobs of peaple. Know anyone?
This was a big week, what with 
dance decorations, the Tri-Delts 
party for the Tecvets, the AIEE 
Smoker, the Womens Guild Dance, 
et al. Amid the streamers, colored 
lights, and joyful couples, who does 
what when and with whom? . . . 
We search for the answer.
Strange faces at the Tau Delt 
table: Bernard Perlman with Gol
die Ziskind; Alex Sherman and Es
telle Berenfield. . . . Ralph Eyman 
dropping in to lend a big hand with 
the decorations on Friday night. 
. . . Jerry Bell and Sally Rosen
berg looking right pert at the dance. 
. . . Harold Gottesman escorting 
Margie Cohen. . . . Another Perl
man (this time Chuck) with Flo 
Hirsh. . . . Bob Straka hitting
things off with Myra Barry. . . . 
What McGill Hall girl was having 
trouble with two dates? Guess its 
happened before though.
Wild rumor to the effect that B. 
J. Kreimer was 16 last Sunday. 
Were still waiting for that foot
ball team. ... It seems that the 
Tau Delts have a new cook  just 
when the pledges were getting used 
to the last. . . . Stories are flying 
fast about Ben Schwartzs arm; a 
few say it happened in a volleyball 
game; some say it must have been 
a particularly plump Maggie Murph; 
we personally think it happened 
while dealing that fifth ace. Regard
less, it didnt seem to hinder him 
with Diana Dines Saturday.
Observation: Brad Hunt didnt
take as many intermissions as Jim
my Kaye did at the Autumn Frolic; 
thats an improvement. . . . the 
dance looked like a reunion of the 
45 E.E. Seniors  Don Stewart, 
Paul Castner, Grant Cavender, and 
Aubrey Caplan were there in force. 
Where was Ed Thurston?
Add to List Of Familiar Faces 
Dept.: Navyman Paul Gibian and 
Signal Corps Lt. Alfred Genshaw 
(who is, incidentally, pinned to 
Tony Schlermitzauer) . . . Several 
sorority girls were seen talking the 
new French Naval Officers Friday 
night. . . . What campus freshman 
is all adither about the recipient of 
his high-school ring. Seems hell 
have to split it three ways.
WOODLAWN 
PHARMACY
The Campus Drug Store 
HA. 6300 5200 Forbes St.
Add to those at the dance: Joe 
Stein and Inky Friedman; Bill Mey
ers and Judy Lambert; Vic Wales 
and Lois Slessinger. . . . Irv Aisenberg having a gay time with Estelle 
Mattes. . . . Two more couples: 
Merle Wolff with M. J. Horridge 
and Augie Binder with Gerry Sunseri, (These B.M.O.C.sboth with 
tuxes.) . . .
J. P. Franz had a big time Fri
day night  the only man on cam
pus who can stand on his head on a 
table-top and wiggle his ears with 
a hotdog in his mouth. . . . Twelve 
of the TXs having a gay time at 
Seton Hill Friday. . . . Flash! The 
T.G.I.F. club will have its official 
meeting at the Greeks. ... We 
make a peach of a pair  Dave 
Mintz and Danny Franks. . . . Who 
finished the Delts keg of beer Fri
day. . . . Problem of the week  
Who cleans the Black Cat after the 
dances?
Candidates for identical initial 
club at the WGD Joel Bigelman and 
Joan Braunston. . . . Johnny Dorffman escorting a Pitt girl, Barb 
Owens. . . . Celeste Silberstein
with a Pitt Dent student in a new 
uniform. . . . Vic Elliot and Natalie 
Williams, Harry Hamilton and Ann
Trautman. Don Clendenen and 
Alice Kuepps at the dance. . . .
Frank Dougherty after predis
cussing the merits of freshman 
women, has been wooing same. . . . 
.... Disappointment ran ram
pant among the Beta pledges 
when they could not find the Kappa 
pledges during decorating Saturday. 
... Ed McMillan is making big
plans for his coming marriage to a 
girl from Virginia. . . . Viera Kulamer crashing the AIEE smoker to 
interview the new French officers.
The non-winners thought it gross
ly unfair for Lu West and Dick An
dre to get a box as well as the tur
key at the big raffle  Cornacchia 
wants to re-raffle the gobbler for 
the benefit of the DUs.
One of those intermissions.
Pictures by Danny Franks.
BUY
BONDS
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY, PITTSBURGH, PA.
 ' V  - , : - ,  7 - .V  >> .. ; _1
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1945 THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
THANKSGIVING SEMI-FORMAL

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1945
Critical Temperature
The new play at the Little Thea
ter illustrates once again the experi
mental purpose of many of the 
Drama Departments shows. Al
though the play has been adapted 
for a modern stage, with lighting 
and scenic effects that were impos
sible in a Greek theater, the spirit 
is preserved very well. This produc
tion affords an excellent opportu
nity for Tech students to get a gen
eral idea of what a Greek drama, 
such as they may have read or read 
about in their various history or 
Soc. Hel. courses, must have looked 
like to the ancient Athenians.
The Trojan Women is a strongly 
anti-war play, and as such is par
ticularly appropriate for presenta
tion at this time. If it were not for 
this appropriateness, however, The 
Trojan Women would seem a poor 
choice to introduce Greek drama to 
modern audiences. Many of the an
cient plays, especially those of Eu
ripides, have more action, and there
fore more interest, than this one. 
It has no plot to speak of, for which 
reason it fell under the displeasure 
of Aristotle, the first dramatic critic. 
On the other hand, it is rich in 
pathetic and sometimes energetic 
passages, which furnish fine oppor
tunities for the student actors to 
show what they can do.
The play takes place immediately 
after the fall of Troy* on a battle
field outside the walls, where the 
Trojan women are waiting to be 
seized by the various Greek heroes 
who have won them as spoils. The 
main character is Hecuba, widow of 
Priam, the king of Troy; mother of 
Hector, its greatest hero, and of 
Paris, whose theft of Helen was the 
excuse for the war. The next largest 
roles belong to Cassandra and An
dromache, while Helen, Menelaus, 
Talthybius the Greek herald, and 
the leader of the chorus also h.ave 
important parts. The long choric 
songs are divided up among seven 
women of the chorus who speak in
dividually, although a small amount 
of choral speaking is retained.
The performance which is most 
likely to remain in the spectators 
mind after seeing this production is 
that of Mary Laura Wood as Cas
sandra. Her characterization is gen
erally excellent, and particularly 
remarkable for the fine distinction 
she makes between the mad speech
es and the prophetic ones. Joan 
Bowers Hecuba was striking in cer
tain scenes, but at other times it 
became a little monotonous. This 
was not exactly her fault, for the 
part contains a great number of 
very long speeches which are hard 
to deliver without losing a consider
able amount of audience interest. 
Marilyn Bloom played the pathetic 
Andromache beautifully, winning 
the sympathies of all present. The 
non-speaking part of her young son 
Astynax was taken by a rather untalented youngster, but she over
came this obstacle without difficul
ty. We liked Caroline Cooks char
acterization of Helen, in which the 
fabulous beauty of this woman was 
suggested by her gestures and by 
her attitude towards the men -and 
women about her rather than by 
make-up, but we felt that her speak
ing voice was not sufficiently rich 
and full to make the role as effec
tive as it might have been. Parker 
Meyers was quite satisfactory as 
Menelaus; Raymond Boyle as Tal
thybius seemed a little more mod
ern than the other actors, but other
wise his performance was compe
tent. One of the best actresses in 
the play was the leader of the chor
us, Ruth Guberman. Those who 
have often seen her clowning around 
the campus may find it hard to be
lieve that this is the same Ruth 
who does so well in a serious dra
matic role. The individual women 
of the chorus were all more or less 
good, but when they had to work 
together there was a marked lack of 
cooperation. It may not be abso
lutely necessary to have a choral 
movement at all in a modernized 
version, but if there is an attempt 
at it there should be enough re
hearsals so that these movements 
will be done in unison. The ragged 
waving of arms we saw Friday night 
was definitely distracting. David 
Fink and June Shannon, faced with 
the difficulty of being gods, were 
much aided by dramatic lighting 
and gorgeous costumes. Mr. Fink 
did not seem quite majestic enough 
as Poseidom, but Miss Shannon was 
a very dignified Athena.
The program does not state which 
translation from the Greek was 
used, which is not quite fair to the 
translator, for our enjoyment of the 
classics depends greatly on the skill 
of the man who fashioned them into 
English; at any rate, the one used 
by Miss Morris is an excellent one. 
The set is very simple, making great 
use of black curtains, and quite in 
keeping with the play. The lighting, 
an integral part of the production, 
was skillfully arranged and well 
executed. Most of the costumes were 
lovely; a few (e.g. that of Mene
laus) were unhappy choices. A word 
should be said for the trumpeters, 
Winfield Miller and/or Donald Oak
ley, who blew their long calls clear
ly and beautifully.
The Trojan Women is not a play 
that will be interesting to everyone. 
Most of the speeches are very long, 
and will seem boring unless you 
know some of the background of the 
story. The best idea would be to 
read the play before going to see it. 
It presents, as we said before, a 
valuable opportunity for those who 
are interested in the classics.
The remaining performances will 
take place on Nov. 20, and from 
Nov. 26 to 28.
WORLD'S MOST HONORED WATCH
Bond Drive . . .
continued from page 1 
Shirley Swaney, Delta Gamma
$5,500.00 
Helen Jaffurs, Kappa Kappa
Gamma ...........................$507.25
To support Tech in this last bond 
drive and help choose your favorite 
War Bond Queen you need only get 
a bond blank from the cashiers 
office in Industries Hall, have your 
bank stamp it wThen you buy the 
bond, and return to the cashier the 
stamped blank with the name of 
your favorite contestant on the back. 
Organizations other than those men
tioned may sponsor any one of the 
candidates already nominated.
The Beauties of Carnegie Tech 
who are in the contest are eligible 
to win another prize offered to con
scientious bond saleswomen, for 
Wannamakers Department Store is 
offering a free weekend in New 
York to the two Pennsylvania girls 
who sell bonds to the largest num
ber of persons before the end of De
cember.
Jane Branagan and Dorothy 
Federman wish to thank the 
Chaperones  Dean Yon, Dr. and 
Mrs. Warden, Mr. and Mrs. Hyde, 
and Dr. and Mrs. Ewing  and 
those who made posters, sold 
tickets, and decorated the gym, 
for helping to make the Guild 
Dance a success.
MANAGEMENT of ones per
sonal finances sometimes calls 
for judicious borrowing of funds. 
Loans on collateral security may 
be arranged in consultation with 
one of the Banks officers.
MELLON 
NATIONAL BANK
MEMBER FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION
IT'S SIMPLY A MATTER OF TIMS
The pendulum of production is swinging again for the 
Bell System, as Western Electric, our manufacturing 
division, reconverts for the all-out manufacture of the 
thousand-and-one things we need to give you the Bell 
Systems true standards of service once more.
During 1946, for instance, it is planned to add 2,100,000 
miles of Long Distance telephone circuits to the System. 
Thats more than there were in Great Britain and 
France combined, before the war, and it means that the 
pressure on our lines will ease up.
Today, of course, the thousands of calls of returning 
veterans are actually giving us more rush-time peaks 
than we had last year. So its more important than ever 
to limit your call to five minutes when the operator must 
ask you to do so. A service mans call to his home may 
be waiting.
THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY 
OF PENNSYLVANIA

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1945THE CARNEGIE TARTAN5/. CIT SPORTS
Tech Loses To Grove City
It just wasnt in the cards for Pat 
OConnors crew to come up with 
an unbeaten season last Saturday. 
For a while it looked as though the 
boys would turn the trick, but the 
two Mothers, Nature and Luck, put 
an end to things, and the final score 
showed Grove City 4, Tech 3.
We dont want to take anything 
away from Grove City, though, 
those boys were good, and from the 
opening whistle a battle-royal was 
in progress. The visitors took ad
vantage of their position on the 
field to score twice during the open
ing period. The Tech backfield got 
itself bogged down in the mud and 
that was just what the Grove City 
boys needed. Just two times the 
Carnegie fullbacks misjudged the 
slippery ball and Ramsey and Zembower closed in on the Tech goal to 
rack up a goal each. The Tartan 
forwards hardly even saw the ball 
all during the period and when they 
did, the Grove City backs were up 
to the occasion.
Tech Scores
When the second stanza began, 
the situation was reversed. The 
whole G.C. team started drowning,
 especially the goalie. The Tech 
front line was knocking at the gates 
continually and finally the first pay
off came when Turk Erkun, in
side left, lifted the ball out of a 
puddle and into the goal for the 
first Tech marker. Immediately af
ter the ensuing kick-off Tech went 
back down ^;he field and made the 
visiting team conscious that Car
negie was still in the game. A Grove 
City fullback banged the ball up the 
middle of the field,which was the 
saddest mistake he ever made. Bob 
Williams wobbled those potent feet 
of his up to the ball and let fly from 
about 40 yards out. The ball soared 
over the amazed heads of 15 players, 
dodged the bewildered goalie and 
went merrily on its way through the 
goal to knot the count at two-all. 
Williams Boots Wonder Shot
Williams gleefully received all the 
back-slapping tHat goes with a shot 
of that kind, but he wasnt through 
yet,not by a long shot. Tech was 
given a free kick from the middle 
of the field, off to one side. The 
Annapolis Kid decided it was time 
to wake the crowd up, so he pulled 
a shot that you see once every dec
ade. He came up with a boot that 
would have made Ken Strong jeal
ous. Again the ball soared through 
the air with the greatest of ease and 
again it dropped down by the Grove 
City goal, and again it skidded 
through for a score. You dont think 
it was a wonderful shot? Just try 
setting a chunk of lead a foot in 
diameter on the ground and kick it 
50 yards in the air. Thatll give you 
a rough idea of what Williams did.
Grove City was not to be denied, 
however, and came back in the third 
quarter to tie the score once more as 
Valencia eluded the Tech backs and 
rang the bell on a hard shot from 
3 yards out from the goal.
The Tartans started like a houseafire in the final period and had
three good chances for a score, but 
the mud took care of the situation 
and the effort went for naught. 
Grove City suddenly came to life 
and reversed the situation. Their 
forwards had the dry end of the 
field to work on and, after coming 
close on many occasions, finally scor
ed when Zembower banged the ball 
into the goal. Tech tried vainly to 
come back for another one, but 
Grove City was too good and the 
game came to a close with Tech 
on the short end of the score for 
the first time this season.
Techs Best Season
All of which brings us to the end 
of the most successful soccer season 
in the history of Carnegie Tech. The 
boys racked up a total of 19 goals 
to 7 for the opposition. Ray Aynaoglue scored that many for Tech all 
by his lonesome. To pick a star for 
Carnegie would be impossible. There 
was Aynaoglu banging home every
thing he could get his feet on; there 
was Mellott playing all over his 
half of the field, and setting up a 
lot of goals with his nifty passing; 
there were Perry, McMullan and 
Erkun combining to score 4 goals 
and set up many more. In the back
field there was Art Trefrey making 
some sensational stops at left-half; 
Bob Williams doing everything in 
the books at center-half; Ken King 
pulling some tricky maneuvers at 
left-half; Hartman and Kindblom 
doing a wonderful job in front of 
the goal and generally raising hob 
with the opposing forwards; and 
then there was Heckman calmly 
snoring away in the goal. And dont 
forget the coach, Pat OConnor, who 
did a great job of intergrating the 
various and sundry talents which 
were given to him into a great soc
cer team.
Sidelights on the game: Ask the 
Grove City outside right why he 
can hardly walk. Joe Hartman had 
a little to do with it.
Mellot Captain-elect
After the game, Jack Sherwood, 
last years Captain-elect, presided 
while the team elected Clyde Mel
lott Captain for the coming season, 
a well-earned honor.
Saturdays Lineups:
CarnegieGrove City
HeckmanGEggers
KindblomREMitch
VargaLERoberts
KingRHThomas
WilliamsCHJones
TrefryLHCook
SherwoodORSmith
(Capt.)
MellottIRZembower
AynaogluCFJack
ErkunILValencia
PerryOLRamsey
Subs., Tech--Hartman, Rose, McMullan.
Subs., Grove City-Winters, Dunn,
Bares, Wood.
C. S. EDMAN
Printer
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0183
Intramural 
Round-Up
Things have picked up on the 
intramural front this week with 
volley-ball off to a fast start. Though 
the won and lost column shows the 
Betas and the Beta Sigs in the lead 
with one decision to their credit, 
it is still a wide-open contest as 
there does not appear to be any 
surplus of experienced spikers and 
all but a few of the combos are 
lacking pre-season tune-ups.
The feature battle of the week 
was the DUs 2 to 1 decision over 
SAE. The score at the end of con
test showed the plucky and slightly 
lucky DUs ahead 21-17, 15-21, 21-15; 
but when Coach Risedorph finished 
checking the line-ups, both teams 
were charged with a loss as both 
had used inelligible men.
Betas Take Delts
The Betas managed to pull two 
games out of the fire and take the 
Delts by twin scores of 21-17, but 
the Delts came back the next night 
to capitalize on TXs lack of practice 
to the tune of 21-10 and 21-15.
Though the Tau Delts boasted a 
larger aggregate of points for the 
three game series, their rivals, the 
Beta Sigs, made their minority 
count as they turned on the pres
sure in the first and last games to 
eke out a bare 21-18, 13-21, 21-18 
decision. The Scwelch boys made 
a flashy start as they tripped a lanky 
but awkward PiKA sextet 21-11, 
21-5; the tables were turned, how
ever, as the SAEs ran away with 
the decider after each had rackedup a point toward victory. Final 
count  SAE over Scwelch  21-18,
18-21, 21-9.
Table Tennis Next Week
The large turn-out for table ten
nis may be an indication of where 
all the free time Engineers are sup
posed to have goes. The tourna
ments which are scheduled to start 
next Monday feature sixty-one pro
spective singles champs (only two 
of which  Irv Aisenberg and Red 
Mast  are veterans of the previous 
year) and eighteen pairs going after 
the doubles crown. The charts will 
be posted in the gym and a time
limit will be set for the conclusion 
of each round. The matches will be 
two-out-of-three except for the fin
als which will be the customary 
championship three-out-of-five.
The nine entering teams have 
been divided into two leagues with 
Beta Theta Phi, Theta Xi, Pi Kap
pa Alpha, Delta Tau Delta, and Phi 
Kappa in one and Delta Upsilon, 
Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Beta Sigma 
Rho, and Scobell in the other. The 
matches will be four singles and 
one doubles with the league champs 
determined by home-and-home con
tests and the trophy going to the 
winner of the inter-league play-off. 
The Intramural Board will set the 
playing dates, but the home team 
will name the place and the time 
will be set by mutual agreement of 
the players. The winners must re
port the score to the Intramural 
office within twenty-four hours on 
the supplied score sheets.
Tech Sporting Scene
Dick Heckman
Coach Max Hannum has been 
having a big hunk of assistance in 
coaching the basketball team from 
Ed Milchovich, a name which is 
familiar to all basketball followers 
in the area. Ed was the sparkplug 
of the great Duquesne teams of a 
few years ago and went on to dis
tinguish himself in the pro circuits 
with the New York Celtics. The 
boys have been learning a lot of bas
ketball in the last few weeks and 
beat the Y.M.H.A. last Thursday in 
a practice game.
Expression of an Optimist
Chuck Kavenagh (the optimist) 
tells me that he is of the opinion 
that Tech would beat Army in foot
ball next year, and that Army is 
lucky we dont play them. Also he 
says that anybody who believes him 
is nuts.
Word has it that the soccer team 
is now considering offers for vaude
ville performances. Can those guys 
sing? It really sends you (the other 
direction).
Scobel and Welch Halls have com
bined to form an Intramural volley
ball team called Scwelch. Whats 
in a name?
Uncle Sam Takes Toll
Uncle Sam took care of any vi
sions Pat OConnor had of having a 
veteran soccer team next year. With 
a single thrust he caught 5 of th$ 
varsity team, and they all passed 
the physical. We wont mention any 
names because it would be too much 
like an obituary.
Basketball Schedule 
Adds New Contests
Coach Max Hannums cagesters 
have finished their first week of 
daily drill, tucked t^eir first practice 
game under their belts, and already 
begun to look good despite their lack 
of intercollegiate experience. In last 
weeks pre-season tilt with the 
YMHA, they hit the nets for an 
aggregate of 39 points while the best 
the losers could get was 34. Eddie 
Milkovich, who starred for Du
quesne the year they won the Na
tional Championship, has been as
sisting Coach Hannum for the past 
week, and the team apears to be 
absorbing everything he has to offer. 
Geneva Opener Dec. 1
The quintet will take to the floor 
against Geneva at Beaver Falls on 
December 1 to inaugurate the 1945- 
46 season. The tentative line-up fea
tures lanky Paul Kuzma in the pivot 
spot with Joe Harmouth and Cap
tain Bill Sherb at the forward posts 
and Gene Hannum and Stan Kohn 
as guards. Lew Heiles and Chuck 
Jewells will be alternating with 
Sherb and Kohn.
A preliminary contest is set for 
December 6 at 7:00 between the 
Junior Varsity and a non-designated 
outfit that will probably turnout to 
be the YMHA.
WhenWhoWhereDec.1GenevaBeaver FallsDec.6JuniataC.I.T.Dec.8AlleghenyMeadvilleec.12WestminsterC.I.T.Dec.15Penn StateC.I.T.Dec.18Slippery Rock
State TeachersSlippery RockJan.5CaseClevelandJan.9PittPittJan.12W. & J.C.I.T.Jan.19West VirginiaMorgantownFeb.2JuniataHuntingdonFeb.6PittC.I.T.Feb.9GenevaC.I.T.Feb.13Penn StateState CollegeFeb.16AlleghenyC.I.T.Feb.23WestminsterNew WilmingtonFeb.27Slippery Rock
State TeachersC.I.T.Mar.2CaseC.I.T.Mar.9West VirginiaC.I.T.

---------------------------------------------------

6THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1945
QlcuilieA, Ooh Laid! Those Frenchmen
Whos Doing What 
When, Where and Why
Of course all the fraternities and 
sororities were well represented at 
the dance Saturday night and of 
course everyone had a super time, 
but no one got to talk to no one 
else because of the crowd, so lets 
pry open the doors of the various 
fraternities and sororities and see 
whats buzzin.
Congratulations to the Tech mem
bers (Alpha Nu chapter) of Alpha 
Epsilon - Phi, who celebrated their 
second anniversary with a dinner on 
November 19. Flo Orringer, nation
al Dean was present.
During the Thanksgiving vaca
tion, the Betas are having a dance 
for vets  by invitation only. It 
will be held Friday night.
Last Sunday the Beta Sigs and 
the Tau Delts played their annual 
football game. It was a rugged con
test, with the Beta Sigs coming out 
on top by a score of 30-14.
The Delts held a tea dance for 
the Delta Gammas on Thursday, 
November 15, from 4:30 to 7:30. The 
Delta Gams claim the affair was 
allreet. Then on Friday night the 
Delts had a house party (buzy little 
bees).
Friday certainly was a busy eve
ning  the Tri-Delts held a party 
for the Tecvets in Thistle Hall, 
which was decorated as Delta Tav
ern with candles in Tech Beer bot
tles (empty) on the tables, a bar, 
etc. It certainly was a big success.
The DUs had a stag smoker on 
Friday evening for their alumni.
On Sunday, November 11, the 
Delta Gammas gave a tea at the 
Union from 3:00 to 5:00 for their 
mothers, alumnae, and the Province 
Secretary.
The Kappa Kappa Gamma pledges 
gave a party for the pledges of 
other sororities last -Wednesday af
ternoon in the Carnegie Union. Mrs. 
Work, wife of Director W. R. Work, 
told some very interesting stories 
about the early days of C.I.T.
The Sigma Kappas had a foun
ders day program followed by a 
party at their last regular meeting.
The Theta pledges a gave tea for 
all other sorority pledges from 2:00 
to 5:00 Sunday, at the Delt house, 
mind j a.
Friday is definitely a popular ac
tivity night. The Theta Xis had an 
-iiormal house dance with fun for 
all.
See you after Thanksgiving. 
(Have fun with that turkey, Dick 
Andre.)
A. I. E. E. Hold Smoker 
Prof. Williams Speaks
Last Friday, Nov. 16, the stu
dent branch of the American insti
tute of Electrical Engineers held a 
Get Acquainted smoker in the 
Faculty Lounge. Following an in
formal dinner in the Skibo Dr. Wil
liams of the Electrical Department 
gave a very interesting talk on 
Radio and Radar in Warfare. He 
discussed some of the technical as
pects and told some of rather hilari
ous incidents that happened during 
the development of radar.
After an informal question period 
refreshments were served.
Its great when Engineers come to 
the Tech campus, but when they 
turn out to be Fienchmen that 
makes it all the more interesting!
Lt. Edouard Joseph Guigonis, a 
member of the French Naval Mis
sion to the United States, and seven 
Ensigns have been sent to Tech in 
connection with Naval Aviation 
Studies. Upon completion of their 
Naval Aviation Studies, the French 
Government decided to train them 
further. Upon completion of their 
studies here they will understand 
basic theories of Military Radio and 
Radar Systems and be capable of 
directing radar systems in the 
French Navy.
Why C. I. T.? To add a plug for 
Tech, our graduate program con
tains courses providing excellent 
fundamental training for Radar, as 
our present staff includes people 
who have had much experience with 
Radar during the War and who are 
conducting Radar Research under 
War Department contract at this 
writing.
These Frenchmen have had varied 
educational backgrounds. They were 
in the French Naval Academy when 
the Germans took France, but when 
the Academy disbanded, they, com
pleted their education in other 
schools. They would compare with 
our Annapolis Graduates in that 
they were chosen from a large num
ber of applicants and trained for 
the permanent Navy. They are can
didates for Masters in Electrical En
gineering, which they should re
ceive the end of the next summer 
session.
One of their varied experiences 
while in France occurred a few 
days after D-Day, when their offi
cers were at the Naval Academy, 
and the Nazi S.S. Troops, Mongols, 
as they term them, atempted to 
capture them. At mid-night they 
escaped to Southern France to join 
the French Forces of the Interior 
(Maquis). Immediately following 
the liberation, but while there were 
still small areas occupied by the
Germans, these men were active in 
cleaning out the pocket at Aoyan. 
It was our duty as members of the 
French Navy to liberate every part 
of France occupied by the Ger
mans.
One of them commented, quote 
I am not interested in American 
women  Im here strictly for busi
ness, unquote. Well, who has ever 
objected to mixing a little pleasure 
with business? Besides, has anyone 
ever seen a member of the Navy, 
let alone a Frenchman, who wasnt 
interested in women? ? ? ? ?
Teeh Graduates Star 
In Savoyards Production
On November 24 the Pittsburgh 
Savoyards will present the Gilbert 
and Sullivan operetta The Mikado 
at Syria Mosque.
There are many Carnegie Tech 
graduates and students in the cast. 
One of the leads, Yum Yum, is 
played by Sylvia Schmidt, a grad
uate, another is Pish Ti*sh who is 
played by Roger Ingam. Mr. Ingam, 
a graduate of the Dept, of Archi
tecture who studied in the Music 
Dept., has recently returned to this 
country after three years active 
service in the south Pacific. Jane 
Fisher Ginnevan, a freshman in the 
school of music, plays Piti-Sing. 
Beside Mr. Ingam, two graduates 
who were veterans are also in the 
cast. They are Gertrude Breadstone, 
who was with the Red Cross over
seas, and Don Gaylor, who was in 
the European campaign.
The production is under the gen
eral supervision of Harvey Gaul. 
On his production staff he will have 
Lawrence Burrows, as Musical Di
rector, Margaret Bowers McCurdy 
as Production Director, and Fred
erick Schmidt as Assistant Musical 
Director. Madeline Blackadore, ac
companist, will be assisted by Adlyn 
Letwin and Esther Grote at rehears
al. Bernie Armstrongs KDKA Or
chestra will play for the production.
Other leads will be Emerick Simboli as Ko Ko the Lord High Execu
tioner, Berton Mustin as Pooh-Bah, 
the Lord High Everything Else, 
Joseph Lazzaro as Nanki-Poo who 
wins Yum-Yums heart, Betty Royston will be Katisha a most unat
tractive old thing, tra-la and Ethel 
Seifert as Peep-Bo. The title role 
will be sung by James Pastorius, 
soloist of Calvary Episcopal Choir.
The Savoyards are a non-profit 
self-governing group whose main 
purpose is to give Pittsburghers 
with talent and ability a chance to 
sing before appreciative audiences 
and to do all types of work related 
to stage production.
scNTPRODUCTS
SUN
DRUG STORES
Reliable Prescription Service

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1045 THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
by Casey Stine
(In which the End Man goes to 
show that Nature does not abhor a 
vacuum.)
Pittsburgh Round-Up: At the Lit
tle Theatre, The Trojan Women 
by Euripides. At the Playhouse, 
Hand in Glove. At the Nixon this 
week, Milton Berle in Spring in 
Brazil. After you see this little 
offering, youll probably wish that 
Mr. Berle was in Brazil too. The 
Ballet Theatre at the Mosque to
night and tomorrow. Two new plays 
are coming to the Nixon; Dennis 
King in Dunnigans Daughter, by 
S. N. Behrman, will play the week 
of the 26th. Charles Butterworth 
will be at the Nixon the week of 
December 3, in Brighten the Cor
ner. Paul Robeson will be at the 
Mosque on December 1. The Boston 
Symphony, directed by Serge Koussevitsky, will be at the Mosque on 
December 4.
Roses and Rutebaga Department: 
Roses to the Womens Guild for 
having the first real pre-war dance 
here at school! Rutebaga for the 
nasty janitor who turns you out of 
the gym ten or fifteen minutes ear
ly! Roses to the SCOTTIE for im
proving on the first issue! Rutebaga 
to the few people who come in the 
Beanery and Skibo and try to study 
and then get angry when the people 
in the next boo^h come in to talk. 
Nnnnnnnnnyah! Roses . . . aw
nutz! . . . were in a fine humor 
today . . . Roses to Everybody!
Things To Do When You Feel 
Like Throwing In The Sponge De
partment: Have Rose Ellovich tell 
you the story of the two little col
ored girls. Have Joan Thomas sing 
The Minneapolis Blues. Get Ade
line Herlick to tell you what ETAOINSHRDLU means and dont be 
disappointed when you find it isnt 
anything to stand up and cheer 
about. Have the Russian waitress 
at Kahns tell you about when she 
went to Tech ten years ago.
This I Love Department: Theme 
song for the Cork and Bottle: Hick
ory, Dairquiri, dock . . . Some 
pseudo-wit said that the cooks in 
Skibo and the Beanery dont use a 
cook book . . . they use Mein 
Kampf!.. but I dont believe them. 
Self-epitaphs: Dorothy Parker
wants this engraved on a simple 
markerHere lies Dorothy Parker 
in the dirt she loved so well. Lady 
Lindsay wantsServed by all, of 
service to none, she died at the tea
Thanksgiving Dance
continued jrom page 1
far from Dicks table on Thursday.
The array of cars, limousines, and 
even a few jalops (dont want to 
slight Teasdale) that was spread 
over campus gave the place a look 
that was almost pre-war and pro
vided the transportation to all parts 
of the county for those who tired 
of the Seven-up served by the APO 
in the crowded Black Cat.
Intermissions saw the B e t as 
breaking out a bottle which they 
claimed was cider, the PiKAs mak
ing a few feeble attempts at group 
vocalization, and a trio of Tau Delts 
giving out with a couple verses of 
Don't take my pin.
hour. Archdeacon Scott wants  
Here in a pot lies Canon Scott. 
Lord Byron wantedHe did not 
earn this urn. Description of Basil 
Rathbone: He looks like two pro
files pasted together. From Bach
elor Born: Rowings a silly sport, 
anyhow; eight men in a fragile little 
boat, proceeding in one direction 
and looking in another. They might 
as well come into the government 
right away ...
Carnegie Techiana, 1945: Former
ly the ambition of college students 
was to receive their degrees cum 
laude. Now the boys and girls sit 
around trying to think up questions 
to stump the experts on Informa
tion Please. Heard in Skibo: I
dont know why I go to his lectures. 
I never listen to what he says and 
he never remembers what hes talk
ing about and then he asks me, 
What was I saying? and I never 
can answer him. Heard after hy
giene class: Ive learned more
about the human anatomy than I 
care to know.
Me and the Muse Department: 
Marian Gleason wrote:
The pen is mightier than the 
sword:
The bitterness of fighting 
Comes when that complete accord 
Is crystalized in writing.
And then Ted Dale wrote this 
quatrain:
Sympatico is the word for Mr. 
Jose Alemany. Sympatico is an 
almost untranslatable Spanish word. 
As difficult to describe in words is 
the scintillating personality of Mr. 
Alemany.
A student in his class immediately 
becomes aware that he is a man of 
great versatility, whether hablaing his native Spanish or giving his 
informed and refreshing opinions of 
current events. The most striking 
characteristics of this professor of 
languages are a great awareness, a 
lively interest in his students, and 
a delightful sense of humor.
In 1917 Mr. Alemany came to the 
United States from Barcelona, 
where he had lived since early child
hood. For years he wrote many 
articles for publication in Spain. 
He taught psychology at Syracuse 
University and at Cornell, where he 
met the charming woman who sub
sequently became his wife.
In his twenty years at Tech, Mr. 
Alemany has taught Spanish, 
French, and, before the war, social 
relations. His extra-curricular ac
tivities are reading and, as is well 
known, photography. He is one of 
the five Pittsburgh photographers 
represented in the Worlds Whos 
Who in Pictorial Photography.
His literary preferences are mod
ern French literature, especially 
Marcel Proust. His interest in pho
tography springs from an early edu
cation in art and from the fact that, 
since his father was head of an illus
trated publication in Barcelona, he 
was brought up in *a sea of pho
tographers.
Professor Alemany
scape scenes. He has spent his sum
mers, for the last few years, with 
his wife and fourteen-year old son 
at Provincetown, on Cape Cod. 
There he finds excellent material for 
shots of the water and of sand for i
mations. His many photos, in post
card size, are very popular there.
Mr. Alemany has the purist phi
losophy of photography. He believes 
that paintings must take care of 
all the surrealism done in art, but 
that photographs should be un
touched and honest, true represen
tations, in spite of this no retouci - 
ing his portrait shots of women are 
absolutely cover-girlish. t
His love of honesty and truth ex
tends to all phases of human life. 
And that is why Mr. Alemany is 
beloved muchissimo by his stu
dent friends.
It thrills the eye,
That color rare,
So many try
But fuschia wear. Most of his work has been of land---------------------------------------------------

8THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1945dTartiecjie jptaid
Thanksgiving  Americas own 
day for giving thanks and praise to 
God.
When one thinks of Thanksgiving, 
one automatically turns back the 
pages of history to the early set
tlers of our country. They conquer
ed a new land, fighting the wilder
ness, earth, and climate, instilling 
their beliefs and way of live. They 
lived simply and modestly and cre
ated a firm foundation on which 
future generations built and grew. 
In the year 1621 in the latter part of 
November, a particular day was set 
aside by the Plymouth Pilgrims in 
acknowledgement of their first har
vest in America. They also gave 
thanks to God for the blessings He 
had bestowed upon them. That was 
the First Thanksgiving!
This Thanksgiving is Americas 
most important, for this year we 
offer thanks for the fact that the 
worlds most destructive war has 
ended. That means to everyone in 
our country the return of loved ones 
from all corners of the earth. We 
thank God that we still are free, 
that our homes are still standing, 
and that our people are not hungry. 
We give thanks that our fighting 
men have defeated the enemy and 
thus made it possible for us to 
realize many happy Thanksgivings 
in the future.
Fraternities Sponsor 
Scholarship Funds
The Evening School students and 
alumni have established two new 
memorial scholarship funds within 
the frame-work of the Endowment 
Fund and are generously supporting 
them with their contributions.
The George H. Follows Memorial 
Scholarship Fund has ben establish
ed by the Evening School fraternity, 
Phi Nu, to honor the memory of the 
late Professor George Herbert Fol
lows, affectionately known to his 
students as King George. Profes
sor Follows, always actively inter
ested in the Evening School stu
dents, was very helpful when Phi 
Nu was organized at Carnegie and 
was their first honorary member. 
Mrs. Follows has generously donat
ed the valuable Phi Nu pin, worn 
by Professor Follows, to assist the 
fraternity in building up the Schol
arship Fund.
In 1937 the Evening School activi
ties honorary fraternity, Nu Sigma 
Alpha, decided to establish a memo
rial scholarship fund to honor the 
late Professor Robert B. Leihou, 
who had been Associate Director of 
the Evening School. More than $500 
had been raised for this purpose and 
recently the fraternity decided to 
contribute these funds to the En
dowment Fund to establish the 
Robert B. Leighou Memorial Schol
arship.
The income from both of these 
Funds will be used to grant scholar
ship assistance to students of the 
Evening School.
Miss Glamour Maker 
Speaks of Fashions
And now, lets devote a bit of our 
time to the fashions of Miss Glamour-Maker  the typical Miss Eve
ning Student. Speaking of fashions, 
what about Glamour Gladrags 
who strolled into class with a shirt 
flaunting mad stripes of red, brown, 
and navy? Could it be that the 
shortage and high prices have driv
en our Evening Student to such 
sophisticated terrors?
One look into the classroom would 
soon tell us hunting season was here 
and that the pheasants were plen
tiful, judging from the multi-colored 
plumes on the toppers. It seems 
that the so-called Victory Gardens 
have become even more common 
in winter than they have been dur
ing the spring and summerwhen 
it comes to womens hats. Wonder 
if our admirers notice the gay as
sortment  anything from Peters 
pumpkin to Mr. McGregors cab
bage patch?
No kidding, though, some of her 
clothes really are designed with 
horse sense. Were speaking strictly 
of those tailored suits that pro
nounce that sleek and streamlined 
figure. (Dont whistle now, fellows.) 
Into the closet Miss Glamour-Maker delves,
She pokes in corners, ransacks 
shelves.
Each weathered rag, each time-worn 
sack
Will find its place on Miss GlamourMakers back.
(Aint it the awful truth?)
Christmas Dance Planned
Evening Student Council had to 
cancel the Thanksgiving Dance due 
to causes beyond their control. 
Plans are now under way for the 
Evening Student Council Inter-Fra
ternity Dinner Dance to be held in 
the near future.
This affair is an Evening School 
Tradition and is held in one of the 
leading local hotels. So please be 
patient and this affair will more 
than repay for the cancellation of 
the Thanksgiving Dance.
The facts pertaining to this dancfe 
will be posted in the PLAID just 
as soon as we receive them.
Greek Tragedy Presented 
By Department of Drama
Those who have already seen the 
play given by the Drama School 
will agree that, The Trojan Wom
en as enacted by this fine group is 
truly a unique presentation, in 
that it closely follows the original 
Greek style of play representation.
Not putting this writer in a posi
tion of drama critic but as a person 
who thinks he knows an interesting 
and entertaining thing when he sees 
it, take my word for, This is it.
So without fail, walk, run, or fly 
to Room 255-C, Industries Hall, and 
get your tickets for there are only 
three more evenings in which to see 
this fine piece of work.
Former Active Night 
Student Returns
Fred Fargotstein, former M/Sgt. 
of the United States Army, drop
ped in on the staff of the Plaid 
last Friday night. Being discharged 
on the 6th of November, he was 
indeed glad to be back to his old 
haunts after having spent approxi
mately three years out of this coun
try during the three years and seven 
months he was in the service. He 
worked as a draftsman with the 
Military Railroad Service, the work 
of which was to repair locomotives, 
cars, and railroad lines after the ac
tion had subsided. His duties took 
him to Africa, Italy and the Philip
pines.
Having been a student in the archi
tectural department of C. I. T.s eve
ning classes, he was especially in
terested in observing the structures 
of the countries in which he was 
stationed. In Africa the combined 
western and saracenic architecture 
gave him the impression of the 
meeting of the twain. The mosques 
which had endured the age of years 
with intactness added to his im
pressions of the country. The people 
of the country, modern French and 
never-changing Arabs, proved to be 
most interesting to Fred. The 
French, constantly trying to im
prove the country, were balked by 
the unskilled and unsanitary Arabs 
who remained as they were cen
turies ago.
In Italy, the beautiful remains of 
an ancient and classical civilization 
were gratifying when he thought of 
the terror our planes had rained 
upon the country. The famed Sor
rento and Isle of Capri were calm 
and serene, untouched by war ex
cept for the military occupation. To 
him, the Vatican was an unexcelled 
example of a preserved civilization. 
On the lighter side, the women of 
Italy proved to be most sociable. 
Amused by the antics and amazed 
by the wealth of the American sol
dier, they were attracted to the 
typical Yank.
The most outstanding impression 
of the Philippines was the fact that 
the people were so anxious to fol
low the American way of life. The 
people were the most educated of 
any Fred had met in his travels; 
their system of universities being 
quite similar to ours here in 
America.
Fred was a member of the Eve
ning Student Council during the 
terms of 38 to 42. Being a member 
of the Nu Sigma Alpha fraternity, 
he was quite active in all of the 
school functions.
Well, another week has come 
around, and we are still doing busi
ness at the same old stand. ... As 
physics instructor in E83, Mr. Johns
ton, that personable young physicist 
of the Westinghouse Electric Re
search Staff, is doing a thorough job 
explaining the virtues of dimension
al analysis to the future mechanical 
engineers. Sometimes one wonders 
if he does use the stuff in his work 
on gas turbine development. . . . 
Every week, old faces reapear on 
the campus. Carnegie Tech gains 
once more upon the return of Fred 
Fargotstein to school after having 
been a three-year guest of Uncle 
Sam. . . . Tis reported that the 
Secretarial English Class conducted 
by Miss Edith M. Winchester will 
meet in the Gold Room, Fort Pitt 
Hotel to hear Aline Hower, author, 
letter counselor, and business cor
respondence instructor, speak on 
Good Letter Writing. . . . And 
dont forgetno classes on Thurs
day or Friday of this weekThanks
giving Holiday.
He has a transmitter and receiver 
set installed in his car, and finds 
much enjoyment in devoting most 
of his spare time contacting other 
stations. That sounds like a very 
worthwhile undertaking Dick. We 
must not overlook the fact that Dick 
also has an interest in the finer 
things of life  Women! What little 
time is left after the above men
tioned pastimes, we might find Dick 
reading his technical journals.
Dick is also active in many sports, 
among those he mentioned were 
boating (particularly sail boating), 
dancing (a jitterbug at heart), swim
ming, and occasionally a good movie.
Now that food is more plentiful, 
Dick can once again indulge in his 
favorite dish, a nice big round juicy 
steak, smothered with onions. Yum! 
Yum!
Dick with his very pleasing per
sonality, was very interesting to 
interview. Thank you Dick, and 
heres wishing you success in your 
chosen field.
The Carnegie Plaid
Strolling down Industries Hall we 
met a friendly smiling face, that of 
Dick Persohn. This is Dicks sixth 
year at Carnegie Tech studying 
Electrical Engineering. His opinion 
of Tech is highly favorable, stating 
it is one of the best Electrical En
gineering Colleges in the country.
Dick is employed by the Allis 
Chalmers Manufacturing Company 
as an Electrical Design Engineer.
When asked about his hobbies, he 
was quick to reply a Radio Amateur.
Editor
Ruth McGraw
News Editor
Frank Mihelich
Associate Editors
Virginia Ehni, Betty Ashcraft
Page edited by Evening School Students of 
Carnegie Institute of Technology. All views or 
opinions expressed in editorial column are not 
necessarily endorsed by the Editorial Board of 
the Day School Staff.
Staff
Olive Baumgardner 
Martha Borkovich 
Betty Hopkins 
Florence Kelly 
Mary Kolson 
Irene Koerner 
Emma Jean Lewis 
Nancy E. Lewis 
Joy A. Ridgeway
Arlene McMurray 
Edw. E. McDonald 
Ann Rawlings 
Joseph M. Rymar 
Anne Sheck 
Dorothy Shields 
Fred L. Vichich 
Cecille Zellner 
Jack Griffin
Jk V.X* V*.
