The Carnegie Tartan
Dr. Max Frocht displaying a photo-elastic stress pattern to Ruth Storm, 
junior Drama student.
Dr. Frocht Pioneers 
With Photoelasticity 
In Mach. Hall Lab
The obscurity of the third floor in 
Machinery Hall is, indeed, incon
gruous with the research which is 
being done there in the photo
elasticity laboratory. Ten years ago 
Dr. Max M. Frocht set up this lab
oratory to investigate the possibil
ity of a new sciencephoto-elasticityas a practical industrial tool. 
Today results of Dr. Frochts re
search are considered invaluable in
formation by men whose profes
sions deal with stresses and strains 
in all kinds of machines and struc
tures. This information is far more 
accurate than the average, simpli
fied stresses which are obtained 
from ordinary calculations.
The procedure followed in photo
elastic analysis is unknown even to 
many engineering students whom it 
so directly concerns. The purpose 
of such an analysis is to determine 
the stresses induced in some partic
ular object by the application of ex
ternal forces. The method is brief
ly and simply this: a small model 
of the object to be examined is care
fully prepared from a special trans
parent plastic developed by the 
Bakelite Company for this purpose. 
It is then placed in an instrument 
called a polariscope, and when pres
sure is applied to the model at vari
ous points, a colorful pattern of the 
induced stresses projected on a 
screen tells an experienced photoelastician just where the weakest 
link is and its extent. These stress 
patterns tell their story to a greater 
degree of accuracy than a doctor 
can read an x-ray plate. It is also 
possible to prepare frozen models 
which show the stresses permanent
ly for examination at convenience.
When Dr. Frocht first set up his 
laboratory, photo-elasticity was in 
its cradle stage, and quantitative in-> 
terpretations of stress patterns were 
highly inaccurate. One of the more 
useful applications of the photo
elastic method is in aeronautical 
and mechanical engineering where 
rapid and reciprocating action is en
volved. A recent propellor failure 
continued on page 6
Student Government 
To Be Given Heat
Student Representation On Cam
pus, certainly a timely topic, has 
been selected as the topic for to
days meeting of the Tech Discus
sion Group. Jack Shore will pre
side at the meeting to be held at 
12:30 P. M. in room 229 of Indus
tries Hall.
Since a subject such as this, a 
subject about which every student 
has a clear understanding and def
inite opinions, has never before 
been open discussed on campus, the 
discussion ought to be very lively.
After the present plan has been 
explained, the group will continue 
by pointing out the merits or faults 
of the present system. When these 
factors have been pointed out, the 
group will go on to discuss what can 
be done about it. Considering the 
proximity of student elections, the 
meeting should prove to be very in
teresting.
Reverend Muir Speaks 
On Hate vs. Sacrifice 
In Arts Theatre Today
Rev. C. Marshall Muir, of the 
Bellefield Presbyterian Church, will 
be guest speaker at todays Chapel, 
held at 11:30 in the Little Theater 
of Fine Arts Building.
His talk on Hate vs. Sacrifice 
should be of interest to all students, 
for it deals with the important, 
though seldom discussed, psychol
ogy of war. He will speak on such 
problems as how much a young man 
who has been taught to fiercely hate 
the enemy can be unaffected by this 
training after the war, and the ques
tion of from which source real cour
age is derivedfrom hate or sacri
fice.
Dr. Muir was enrolled at Tech as 
a Mechanical Engineer from 1918 
to 1920. While here, he was active 
in Teknon and helped organize the 
Carnegie chapter of the Y. M. C. A. 
In the fall of 1918 he joined the 
Students Army Training Corps.
Having decided to enter the min
istry, in 1920, he then transferred to 
W. & J., from which he received his 
A. B. degree in 1922. He graduated 
from the Western Theological Sem
inary in 1925, and was awarded his
D. D. degree from the University 
of Pittsburgh in 1934.
He has been the minister of the 
Bellefield Presbyterian Church 
since 1931, and has been affiliated 
with many national organizations. 
At present he is the chairman of 
the National Conference of Chris
tians and Jews.
This program was arranged by 
the Student Chapel Committee 
whose chairman is De Witt Lyon. 
Mr. Rollin V. Davis, Executive Sec
retary of Student Council and Y. 
M. C. A., assisted the student group.
Oknirujesi Jlecu&i technical StajJj
Earl Obringer has been elected to 
the top position of Editor-in-Chief 
of the Carnegie Technical, to suc
ceed Max Williams who graduates 
in December. His staff is headed by 
Bill Heller, Business manager, and 
Bob Philleo, Managing Editor.
Other important positions on the 
staff are: Feature Editor  Bob
Noyes, Circulation ManagerDick 
Dahlgren, Advertising Manager 
Don Mash, Layout and Design 
Gene Daniels, and Art EditorDick 
Williams. The departments and 
columns were assigned as follows:
Techno-Wings  Bob Frownfelter,
Techno-Digest  John Wolff, TechnoLogicDave Gilman, Activities
Leo Fyer, PersonnelJim Braden,
Publicity  Fred Corey, and Office 
ManagerJoe Eiger. . .
A very active commuter, Ob
ringer is a junior in the Aeronautic
al Engineering Department. He is 
on the Tech Rifle Team, belongs to 
the S. A. M. E. and the I. A. S., and 
is pledged to Pi Tau Sigma and 
Theta Tau honorary fraternities.
Earl has not yet decided anything 
definite with regards to plans for
. . . Earl Obringer
the Technical, but hopes to be able 
to improve on the excellent issues 
produced by the out-going staff.
Official announcement of the new 
staff positions will be made at the 
Technical Banquet, to be held this 
Friday at the College Club in Oak
land.
Alumni Return for 
Dances, Reception
Every year around the time of 
the Pitt-Tech game, Carnegie Tech 
has its Homecoming Weekend, to 
enable its Alumni to revisit their 
Alma Mater, sing the old songs, and 
cheer the team on to Victory. This 
year, again, the Homecoming, to be 
held October 30-31, will have the 
Pitt game as its feature event. In 
addition, the Alumni Federation 
and the Chairman of Homecoming, 
Red Godden, have arranged a most 
interesting program for the former 
Techites who will attend.
Friday afternoon registration and 
a reception will be held in the Car
negie Union. That evening there is 
to be a large Alumni Dinner at 
Webster Hall. Honor guests are the 
members of the special reunion 
classes, 12, 17, 22, 27, 32, and 37. 
During the course of the Dinner 
there will be entertainment, includ
ing a modicum of speeches. Presi
dent Doherty will give his report to 
the Alumni; Coach Eddie Baker will 
discuss the teams chances; and 
Colonel Bass and Jack Van Arsdell, 
President of Student Council, will 
speak. The awarding of the metal 
plate for the Class of 1942 will also 
be decided.
On Saturday morning the Alumni 
Council will hold its meeting. This - 
Council is composed of representa
tives from Alumni Clans all over 
the country. Following the meet
ing, there will be a luncheon for all 
the Alumni at the Union. Then, of 
course, at two oclock, the main 
event, the awaited game will begin.
Saturday evening is left open for 
the various Class Reunion dinners, 
and with the Alumni Dance at Web
ster Hall Hotel that night festivities 
will officially conclude. It is hoped, 
however, that the Alumni will be 
able to visit around the Campus and 
to attend the Open Houses held by 
the various Fraternities, before they 
return home, x
Homecoming Will Be 
Theme of IF Informal
Buddy Murphy and his Campus 
Collegians will provide the music 
for Interfraternity Informal, Satur
day night, from nine to one oclock 
in the Gym. Since October 31 is 
Halloween and the climax of Home
coming, Newsom Shewitz and 
James Balmer, who are in charge of 
decorations, have combined these 
two ideas for the theme of the 
dance. Halloween panels and a 
huge poster welcoming the alumni 
will decorate the walls of the gym.
A plaque will be awarded to the 
fraternity that has made the great
est improvements in their grounds. 
Corsages have been banned by In
terfraternity Council for the dance 
which is closed to all but members 
of fraternities and their alumni.
Vol. 36. No. 8CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA. TUESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1942

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1942
P. R.The SolutionQueit Almcltaisi
Flaws In The Present System
Last week, we stated that we would present a democratic and practical 
method of student representation for this campus.
The need for a democratic student government is beyond dispute. The 
fact that the present system of student representation is not democratic is 
also beyond dispute. At least, we are of the opinion that control of 97 per 
cent of the elected offices by 25 per cent of the student body is undemo
cratic. Of course, certain individuals may disagree with us on this point, 
but they are primarily concerned with retaining their privileges on Coun
cil; they are not concerned with honest government.
The present form of student government, organized in 1923, has proven 
antiquated and inefficient. For example, the Engineering Senate has never 
had a meeting for the four years we have been in school. In fact, there 
are only a few faculty members left who can remember the time when 
Engineering Senate did perform some useful function. The Arts Senate 
has proven equally archaic. And yet, these two organizations have nine 
members on this years Student Council.
The various class officers are also unnecessary. They have no pow
ers, nor <So they serve any useful purpose. Their sole reason for existence 
is to provide Council with nine members.
The present method of Student Council representation is badly in need 
of reappdrtionment. Under existing conditions, the College of Engineering 
which has three times the number of students as the Arts School has only 
twice as many voting members on Council as the Arts School. Similarly, 
the College of Engineering should have three times as many voting mem
bers on Council as Margaret Morrison, since Engineering has three time 
the number of students as Margaret Morrison. Under the present set-up 
however, Engineering has ten votes on Council while Margaret Morrison 
has five Votes.
One of the more confusing aspects of the present Council organization 
is the Assistant Treasurer-Assistant Secretary provision. For instance, 
the three Assistant Treasurers automatically become voting members of 
next years Student Council, with one of them being selected for the Treas
urers post. Of the three Assistant Secretaries on this years Council, only 
one (the newly elected Secretary) remains on Council, and the other two 
are deposed. Certainly, the Assistant Secretaries have as much right to re
main on Council as the Assistant Treasurers.
In order to remedy these defects, and to insure fair representation for 
all students, we propose that proportional representation be used in all 
campus elections.
What Is Propcrtional Representation
To quote from Charles P. Tafts, City Management: The Cincinnati 
Experiment, Proportional representation (P. R.) is designed to give rep
resentation in a legislative body to every group, in general thinking alike 
on political subjects and considered large enough to deserve representa
tion. It is designed to prevent the situation that so frequently arises under 
majority rule, where because one slate has a small majority, the entire 
slate goes in, and the minority, with only a few less votes than the major
ity, has no representation. That is not democracy or rule of the people; 
it may be tyranny.
As far as the voter is concerned, P. R. is simpicity itself. It requires of 
the elector ho more than that he shall indicate his favorite candidates in 
order of his preference by putting numbers1, 2, 3, etc.alongside their 
names on the ballot. Irrespective of the number of preferences the voter 
may express, his vote is counted for but a single candidatethe candidate 
being the first of the voters successive preferences who has not already 
been credited with enough to elect or defeated bcause he has too few. In 
this way, P. R. prevents the wasting of votes and gives effect to every vote 
to which it is possible to give effect.
How Will p. R. Work At Tech
At present, without proportional representation, any party which has 
a majority of the votes will control almost all of the offices in Student 
Council. All those who voted for the opposing slate of candidates are 
thereby disfranchised, and for that term of Council have no voice in the 
government of student affairs.
This could not happen under P. R. With P. R. in effect, Council will 
consist of members of all parties and groups elected in direct proportion 
to their number of voters. Instead of 37 per cent of the voters obtaining 
three per cent of the offices as happened in last springs elections, 37 per 
cent of the voters will get approximately 37 per cent of the offices while 
63 per cent of the voters will get only 63 per cent of the officesnot 97 
per cent.
Every college (Engineering, Arts, and MMCC) would have one voting 
member on Council for every 100 (or major fraction thereof) students 
enrolled in that college. This year, Engineering with 1,323 students would 
have 13 representatives; Margaret Morrison with 467 students would have 
five representatives; and Arts with 439 students would have four repre
sentatives. Assistant Treasurers would be elected by preferential ballot 
as would Assistant Secretaries. There would be the same number of these 
(three each), but only the newly elected Treasurer and Secretary would 
remain on the incoming Council. The other four students would have to 
run for election to the position of representative if they so desired. Other 
details of the plan are completely worked out and can be readily demon
strated.
It should be clearly understood that we are not seeking to replace Fra
ternity men on Council with Indepedents. This would simply be a reversal 
of present conditions, and would be as unfair as the present organization. 
But we do believe that P. R. will prove itself a fair and efficient system of 
student representation.
This week, we are sharing our armchair with Joe Neiman, editor of 
the CONNECTICUT CAMPUS. In our opinion, Mr. Neimans informal 
essay is one of the best we have ever read. It was written during one of th 
periods of stife and trouble that frequently beset college editors. At the 
time the paper was conducting a campaign against undesirable conditions 
in the college dining hall, making relations with some members of the ad
ministration strained. Also Neiman was in conflict on many points with 
the student senate, the body that acts as publishers. We find that Mr. 
Neiman has expressed our sentiments perfectly, and in a much better 
manner than we could ever hope to do.Ed.
We have seen the dawn four times
this week, and some day shall wax 
literary over the bright colors in 
the sky and the cold shivers that 
run up and down the spine at that 
hour. We have come out of exams 
with an empty feeling that betokens 
no good unless by divine interces
sion.
We have seen the time for reports 
come and go, and have watched 
helplessly or worked feverishly to
ward the deadline and torn pages 
Still hot from the typewriter scant 
minutes before class time. We have 
met our faculty, and looked up 
guiltily and wondered if they knew 
we had just cut the class.
We have gazed enviously at en
gineers because they work as hard 
as we do but nobody gets mad at 
them. We have envied the chem 
students b2cause they can leave the 
lab and it does not follow. We envy
We have had to judge and weigh 
the doings of life on this campus to 
put out a paper each week and 
every interest group has thought 
that its doing were the most God
awful important things that were 
happening. And there have been 
souls best let alone whose privacy 
we have had to disturb.
We have given groups more pub
licity than they have ever had be
fore, and they have clamored that 
it is not enough. We have not al
ways given credit where it is due, 
for we too are unjust . . . but not 
from intention. We have heard 
word of praise, and it has given us 
heart to say:
Damn the torpedoes! Full speed
ahead
We have had to smile when we 
were angry, and to placate where 
we would rather fight. We havethe football players because they ________^  a- + ~ *. watched sincere people inflict great are bruised physically; our soul is
seared. sJl
For an editors life is not a happy
one
We have said kind things about 
people because they deserved to be 
said and unkind things because they 
were true and people have rememhurts because they were not tol
erant, and have tried hard to be tol
erant of them. And we realize 
keenly our privilege to get so great 
an opportunity for self discipline.
We have tried to teach our staff 
the ABCs and been often discour
aged; and realize that we will be
for all to see.
bered only the unkind things. We lucky to learn them ourselves by
have found 99 mistakes and have the time of graduation. We have
corrected them, and the hundredth been promised copy by Sunday,
has slipped through and been there anc* it has come in on Tuesday; andwe have been blamed for not being 
able to find and correct the errors in 
the rush to get a paper out at all.
We are tired in mind and ex
hausted in body. Willingly would 
we transfer the cares and duties of 
office to other shoulders, so that we 
may sleep. But man must accept 
his destiny; there are no other 
shoulders.
Wctfutina
Mr. Leonard Chotiner 
Editor, The Tartan
In accordance with the action of 
Student Council on October 14, 
1941, The Tartan is required to print 
the complete Student Council min
utes as presented by the Secretary 
to the Tartan staff.
The October 13, 1942, minutes 
submitted by Miss Orr in English 
appeared in Polish (so I am reliably
/fUUO^U
We are sorry to report that the 
Tartan was the victim of a hoax last
informed) in the October 20 issue week, and the marriage between
of The Tartan. In warning The Tar
tan of this violation, Student Coun
cil trusts that no such occurrence 
will be repeated.
Very sincerely yours,
John C. Van Arsdell
Don Jordano and Pat Walker, which 
we reported, never took place. 
Blushingly, we offer apologies to 
these two very swell people, with 
the hope that too much grief was 
not caused by our announcement.
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the 
staff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not 
to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh, Pa.
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2600PHONE SCHENLEY 4557
PRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative 
420 Madison Ave. New York. n. Y.
CHICAGO  Boston  Los AnatLis  Saw Francisco
After Office Hours Call
Editor-in-Chief........................... SC. 9070
Business Manager.........................SC. 9855
Advertising Manager................BR. 4759
Entered as secona-ciass mailer in the Pittsburgh Post Office under the Act of March 3, 1879. 
Published weekly during school year, except holidays and examination periods. 
Subscription Price *1.10 per year.
Editor-in-Chief ...............................................
Co-Managing Editors.
Co-Copy Editors........
Staff Secretary..........
Sports Editor...............
Personnel Manager..
.......................Jack Shore
Walter Haller 
.Stanley A. Rosencrans 
Jeanne King
,.....................Pat Elman
. ...............Don Watkins
........Melvin H. Snyder

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1942THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
Tech La un ch es Blood Donor Drive
Red Cross Asks Carnegie Students 
To Donate Blood For War Effort
This picture of the twenty thousandth blood donation in the city of 
Pittsburgh was taken at the Red Cross headquarters in the Wabash Build
ing. Nurse Elizabeth Boyle is shown checking the blood pressure and pulse 
count of the donor. If enough students register at Carnegie Tech, a Red 
Cross mobile unit will come here to receive donations.
Carnegie Tech students have been asked to enter actively into this to
tal war by donating their blood to the Red Cross Elood Bank. All mem
bers of fraternities, sororities, dormitories, and Citcom Clan should regis
ter through their respective representatives. Others should register with 
Miss Cooper in Mr. Wangemans office, Industries Hall 155-5, or at the War 
Stamp booth on the first floor of Administration Hall. All pledger must 
be in by Friday, November 6. On the pledge cards donors must state the 
time during which they are available. On this basis the Red Cross will 
determine the dates on which their mobile unit will come to Tech campus.
These dates will probably be during the week of November 9-13. To
quote Mr. Davis Chairman of the 
Blood Donor Drive at Tech, Send
ing blood to the front is the least 
that Tech students, who sit placidly 
and watch the war go by, can do to 
ease their consciences. The blood 
we give will be sent not only to the 
Army and Navy for use at the front 
and on the seas but also will be used 
to provide a reservoir for emer
gency needs of civilians.
The process of donating blood is 
relatively painless since it is given 
under a local anesthetic. It should 
not be confused with a transfusion 
which is the transferal of blood 
from one person directly to another. 
A donation is merely a contribution 
to the blood bank. Physicians and 
trained nurses are in constant at
tendance to insure proper proced
ure.
There are no special preparations
which the donor must undergo. He 
can live as usual so long as he does 
not eat fatty foods for three hours 
previous to the donation. The pro
cedure requires from fifteen to 
twenty minutes after which the vol
unteer may resume his normal ac
tivities.
Experiments and case histories 
have proved that no physical harm 
is occasioned by the removal of one 
pint of blood from the store of 12 
to 14 pints that the normal body 
has. The volume removed is re
placed in a few hours by the cir
culatory system from reserve stores 
in the body.
An examination is given to all 
persons before the donation is 
taken, and if physical health does 
not measure up to standard, their 
blood will not be accepted.
Zditodal
Are Tech Students Doing Enough?
In the September 29 issue of the TARTAN there appeared an editorial 
entitled Blood for the Armed Forces. Simultaneously, the C. I. T. War 
Committee was launching a drive to register Carnegie Tech students as 
blood donors for the Red Cross Blood Bank. Representatives were ap
pointed in each fraternity, sorority, and dormitory, and arrangements 
were made to register commuters. Members of Alpha Phi Omega also did 
all they could to arouse student interest.
In spite of the enthusiastic support given by these few groups, the re
sults of the Blood Donor drive are disappointingly small. In four weeks, 
only 25 persons registered for blood donations at Carnegie Tech. Only 
twenty-five persons out of a total enrollment of over 2,200 seem to be will
ing to cooperate in one of the most important jobs the American Red Cross 
has ever undertaken. Only twenty-five Carnegie Tech students have the 
initiative to act now to do something concrete in the war effort. Only 
twenty-five persons out of a total enrollment of 2,200 are interested and un
selfish enough to give one hour out of each of their lives to save a fellow 
human being from death. Only twenty-five students at Carnegie are will
ing to leave their tea dances, their touch football, their club meetings, 
their bridge games, and their bull sessions to help save the lives of men 
dying like flies in the mud of foreign battlefields and on the riddled decks 
of fighting ships.
Are there only twenty-five Carnegie Tech students aware of the fact 
that the United States is at war, has been since December 7, 1941, and will 
be up to its neck in war for many months to come? Are there no more tham 
twenty-five students out of a total enrollment of 2,200 who realize that the 
successful prosecution of this war demands an all-out effort on the part of 
each and every American citizen?
At a time when our Allies are defending their very homes against inva
sion, when our own friends and relatives are putting their services and 
lives at the disposal of their country, and when all over the world men are 
facing death in order that the principles for which they stand may be per
petuated, we sit complacently by and complain about giving a pint of our 
precious blood as though we were being called up to make the supreme 
sacrifice.
College students at the present time are under fire. Colleges are being 
referred to more than ever as country clubs, as havens from the grim real
ities of life; and college students are openly called slackers, draft dodg
ers, softies, and complacent playboys. We are on the spot. All Amreica is putting us on our mettle. The Red Cross Blood Donor campaign is 
a challenge to our patriotism. It is a glorious opportunity to prove to the 
world that the college students of America, and especially of Carnegie 
Tech, have the initiative, the character, and the just-plain guts that it 
takes to win a war.
Walter W. Haller.
jbosicUtH lood nxw&L Pleai*U
necd tf-OA. bardati f&pxvd&i
By Louisa Saul
With that she wrapped a blood 
pressure meter around my arm and 
began pumping. I sat there, a ther
mometer cold against my tongue, 
the band tightening on my arm. My 
pulse was beating so fast in my 
throat I was sure that my blood 
pressure was soaring. Suddenly 
she released the band, looked at the 
thermometer and nooded her head.
Okay, she called to the waiting 
assistant, and I was taken into a 
large room which smelt strongly of 
cleanliness and antiseptic. I lay 
down on one of the high white cots 
and waited. Doctors and nurses 
were walking noiselessly back and 
forth tending other patients on 
either side of me.
Suddenly, a pleasant looking doc
tor was standing beside me smiling 
very reassuringly. I tried to smile 
back, but my lips were frozen. A 
nurse had come over to the cot and 
was patting a cool piece of cotton on 
my arm. Then the doctor said 
something funny and I laughed, a^d 
he said, There that didnt hurt, cSd 
it.
He sounded like the dentist who 
pulled my first tooth, and I looked 
down to see what was happening. 
There, hanging suspended from my 
cot in a white basket, was a bottle 
which was slowly filling with a 
bright red fluid.
Before I could think about being 
sick, the nurse was helping me to 
my feet. At first I felt dizzy, and 
wanted to sit down. But the sensa
tion passed and I felt fine and ter
ribly noble. After a generous por
tion of orange juice and a deluxe 
Dagwood sandwich in the Canteen, 
life again went on as usual.
Is it going to hurt? Am I going 
to faint? No, Im not going to be a 
sissy. They promised that it 
wouldnt hurt. I wonder if they 
just said that to ease my mind. 
These were the thoughts running 
through my head as I climbed the 
steps of the Wabash Building to 
keep my appointment with the Red 
Cross Blood Bank. I found the re
ceiving room where the charming 
volunteer worker in yellow conAll Houft OwT of TfesB uff. 
itoiSMtw un/
ducted me to the registrar who 
took my name and innumerable 
vital statistics.
After a few moments a nurse di
rected me to a chair and rolled up 
my sleeve. Was this it? I steeled 
myself for the prick of the needle. 
Seeing that my eyes were closed in 
tense antictipation she laughed and 
said, You can relax, I only want 
your blood pressure and your tem
perature.

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1942
one of the boys
If its an argument youre looking 
for, dial MU 0531 and ask for 
Vernon Spitaleri. But dont get im
patient if you get a busy signal, for 
the chances are that he is already 
debating with someone else; we 
clocked him at nine phone calls per 
hour. Arguing remains just one of 
his many past-times, luckily, for he 
is too busy doing a million other 
things to consume much time this 
way.
Verns black and gold Dragon hat 
means he is a charter member of 
Omicron Delta Kappa. At present 
- he holds the positions of Senior 
Class President and Social Chair
man of Student Council; he plays 
the clarinet for the Kilties and is a 
member of the Glee Club.
When not busy doing school work, 
Vern prefers to spend his time at 
_ sports and listening to classical 
music. He enjoys playing every
thing from tennis to ice-hockey, and 
likes all symphonic and operatic 
music. A more loyal supporter of 
the Printing Department cannot be 
found, but Vern is also studying 
voice in the Arts school as a sort of 
diminished minor. One of the big 
guns of Alpha Tau Omega, he 
holds most of the offices in this fra
ternity and plays for them in all in
tramural sports.
After graduation, Vern will at
tend Chapel Hill Training School in 
North Carolina as a cadet in the 
Naval Reserve Air Corps.
As far as the fair sex is concern
ed we have come to the conclusion 
that Vern is quite a ladies man. He 
has been seen with most of the cam
pus queens, nevertheless, claims 
that he has never gone steady and 
is at present foot loose and fancy 
free. We overheard him say that
TECH BARBER SHOP
Just 5 minutes from campus. 
CRAIG AT FORBES
Fort Pitt is the Place 
to Rent
TYPEWRITERS
ALL
MAKES
$3.00 per 
Month
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
. . . Vernon Spitaleri
he is looking for the girl of his 
dreams, and hopes he finds her soon 
so he will have someone to kiss
goodbye when he leaves for the 
Air Corps.
There are two things which Vern 
dislikes more than 8:30 classes, and 
they are the injustice in campus pol
itics and the recent lack of school 
spirit. He hopes that in the near 
future there will be better relation
ships between fraternity men and 
independents; between engineers 
and art students, and says that he 
would like to see again school spir
it of the 39 calibre.
Air Raids Inc.
To the previously announced di
rections regarding air raid drills the 
following additions should be 
made:
1. As soon as the alert is sound
ed all persons who are outdoors on 
the campus should seek shelter in 
the nearest building containing 
shelter zones.
2. When the all-clear is sounded 
all persons should go to the places 
where they would ordinarily be at 
that time and resume their work.
Students and members of the fac
ulty who wish to enroll in an Air 
Raid Warden Course are request
ed to register by calling Prof. Chworowsky, Industries, or Prof. Hilton, 
Fine Arts.
ROY HILTON, 
Chairman, Air Raid Protection 
Committee.
Let's go to
ISALY'S
MILK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM CONES
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Allies
G>utioL Cowmen.
Drama Departments Presentation of 
Shaws Heartbreak House Lauded
Despite the limitations imposed 
by the play itself, George Bernard 
Shaws Heartbreak House is one 
of the most finished productions we 
have seen at Tech. The action takes 
place immediately prior to the last 
war, and depicts the chaotic state of 
the English mind at that time. Such 
material as this, excellent on paper, 
does not make for the climatic ac
tion action which we are told is the 
one requisite of a good play. And 
yet, strangely, this is a good play. 
The secret lies, we suspect, in the 
brilliant dialogue, which, though a 
bit in the epigramamtic style of Os
car Wilde, carried the audience 
through three long acts. It is 
a strange feeling, though to 
leave the theatre mentally writCouneil Minutes
The meeting was called to order at 7:25 
p. m.
Absent: Mr. Lockhead and Miss Gehrett. 
COMMITTEE REPORTS 
Publications Committee
Mr. Munyer said that because of the 
resignation of Bill King, the entire Tartan 
staff has moved up one position and Walt 
Haller is the new Co-Managing Editor. 
He moved that Council approve this 
change.
Motion carried.
Mr. Munyer moved that the following 
policy for revising the Publications Com
mittee By-laws be approved:
The publications Committee shall be 
composed of the Editor and Business Man
ager of each C.I.T. publication (Scottie, 
Tartan, Technical^ Thistle, Tri-Publica
tions, and Dorm Bagpiper), exclusive of 
those representing fraternities or any 
other social organizations. Each mem
ber of the Committee shall have one vote, 
and the Chairman hall vote only in case 
of a tie.
Motion carried.
Points and Keys Committee
Mr. Fitzgerald reported that Mr. Lockhead wants all organizations to submit 
the names of seniors who are eligible 
for keys not later than November 3. 
OLD BUSINESS
Mr. Van Arsdell suggested that Coun
cil drop further investigation of Whos 
Who in American Colleges and Universi
ties, as there is not sufficient interest in 
the plan to warrant further discussion.
Mr. Van Arsdell asked that Mr. Reisacher make up a report of the Perman
ent Decorations Committee to be sent to 
the various organizations after its ap
proval by Council.
Mr. Hoppel reported that the minutes 
in this weeks Tartan were not published 
as they were given by the Secretary to the 
Tartan editor. Mr. Van Arsdell said that 
a letter of warning would be sent to the Tartan staff.
Mr. Van Arsdell said that every student 
will be solicited in the near future and 
asked to pledge the purchase of one rec
ord made by the Mens Glee Club and 
the Kiltie Band.
NEW BUSINESS
Mr. Shewitz moved that all corsages 
except War Stamp corsages be banned at 
every all-school dance for the duration of the war.
Motion carried.
Adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
LUCILLE ORR,
Secretary.
ing your own fourth act, as is the 
case when the author fails to end 
the action with a firm and un
equivocal situation.
This is a play in which one does 
not speak of the principals, for, 
as such, there are none. The charact
ers move in various little subplots 
which eventually blend to present a 
vague but provocative finish. The 
two outstanding performances were 
given by Mr. Meyers, whose Cap
tain Shotover had all the gruff, 
harmless bombast and ego the part 
demanded; and by Miss LloydJones who acted with charm and 
finish, developing her characteriza
tion with assurance and logic.
Mr. Sivys interpertation of Hecter was steady and smug, as Mr. 
Shaw would have liked it. Miss Cox 
was a beautiful Lady Utterwood, 
though her speech was so clipped as 
to be frequently unintelligible. Miss 
Bloomberg, handicapped by an 
overworked speech pattern, occa
sionally brushed Hesiones shallow 
dignity and poise. Mr. Checco was 
apparently moving in a world of his 
own, for he certainly was not with 
Shaw. Weak, likewise, was Mr. 
Rubin, with an extremely youthful 
interpretation of Ellies father.
Mr. Appel was neither here nor 
there as Randall, though he some
times touched the little boy quality 
which we think Shaw intended. 
Miss Fineman made little of a 
thankless part, and Mr. Hochhauser 
overacted grossly. Thanks are due 
Miss Morris for her direction, and 
credit to Mrs. Kimberly for her 
costumes and to Mr. Weninger for 
his sets, especially that one in the 
last act.
Yes, we thought it fine produc
tion, and highly entertaining, 
though a rather strange choice con
sidering the wide variety of Shaws 
work.
Whenever possible, we intend to 
comment on both casts. We regret 
that the deadline prohibits our do
ing so in todays paper.
By J. B.GET READY FOR
Intramural Bowling
,coNmr/a,
University Recreation
On Craig Off Forbes
AFTER THE BIG GAME
stop at
CRAIG-FORBES PHARMACY
We DeliverMAyflower 7825

---------------------------------------------------

tfUC irs
^LL" for an 
 foI their
C4ToUn
^vntoo-g0apo'JoTroW
r I FIND THEM 1 
MILDER ALL WAYS ! I
that's FIN DTHEMS O
SMOKE CAMELS-AND THAT 
PULL, ROUND FLAVOR. is KIFCANL- *n
FIRST IN THE SERVICE
TURKISH & DOMESTIC: BLEND 
CIGARETTES
TESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1942 THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
Mr. John L. Elliott Appointed New 
Secretary of Alumni Federation
Mr. John L. Elliott has been ap
pointed Executive Secretary of the 
Alumni Federation of Carnegie 
Tech in the place of Miss Marguer
ite Spilman, who resigned August 
1 to accept a position in Washing
ton, D. C.
Mr. Elliott is a native of Canonsburg, Pa., and lived there during his 
attendance here in the Civil Engi
neering Department, from which he 
graduated in 1910. He followed the 
civil engineering profession for 
fifteen years after his graduation, 
and then became the City Engineer 
of Indianapolis, Indiana, where he 
was in charge of municipal con
struction and maintenance. During 
his stay in this office, the garbage 
disposal plant, for which he was 
partially responsible, was planned 
and built. This plant, a model of 
its kind, actually paid for its own 
operation with the sale of hog-feed, 
a by-product of the reduction of 
garbage.
Aside from his regular duties as 
City Engineer, Mr. Eliott was pres
ident of the Board of Sanitary Engi
neers and a member of the Zoning 
and Planning Commissioners.
Later, he became vice-president 
of the Banner Rock Products Com
pany, with which he stayed for four 
years building a sales organization. 
Johns-Manville bought out that firm
. . . Mr. John L. Elliott
in 1929, and he stayed with the new 
company for six years as general 
staff manager of the Building and 
Material Department in. New York.
In 1932 Mr. Elliott went to Boston, rugated Metal Pipe Association of
Mass., as president and treasurer of New England. War priorities have
his own firm, the Elliott Roofing caused the folding-up of this busiCompany, a subsidiary of Johns- ness, leaving Mr. Elliott free. He asManville, and in 1935 he became sumed his position here on OctoExecutive Secretary of the Cor- ber 15.
On the Lighter Side by Art North
The l-Zone"
where cigarettes
I dont care what you say,I just cant find him
are judged
The "T-ZONE"Taste and Throatis the proving ground for cigarettes. Only your taste and 
throat can decide which cigarette tastes best to 
you... and how it affects your throat. For your 
taste and throat are individual to you. Based on 
the experience of millions of smokers, we be
lieve Camels will suit your "T-ZONE" to a"T." 
Prove it for yourself!

---------------------------------------------------

6THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1942
Earl Wild to Play Piano Solo Under 
Toscanini With NBC Orchestra
On The Campus
Earl Wild, former Carnegie Tech 
music student and Pittsburgh pian
ist, will be soloist with Arturo Tos
canini at the opening concert of the 
NBC Symphony Orchestras fifth 
season on Sunday, November 1. 
Toscanini will conduct and Wild 
will play a performance of Gersh
wins Rhapsody in Blue.
Wild, a well-known figure on the 
Tech campus was pianist for the 
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra in 
1937 and 1938. Subsequently he 
went to New York to become a staff 
pianist for NBC.
Recently, he has been inducted 
into the United States Navy as 
Chief Petty Officer and because of 
his exceptional talent has been ap
pointed to the position of piano solo
ist with the U. S. Navy Symphony 
Orchestra and U. S. Navy EJand in 
Washington, D. C. These duties will 
be assumed shortly.
The Rhapsody in Blue will be 
part of an All-American program 
scheduled by Toscanini. Other 
works are Charles Loefflers Mem
ories of My Childhood, Paul Crestons Choric Dance No. 2, and Mor
ton Goulds Lincoln Legend, the lat
ter two being premieres.
Toscanini has always admitted 
that the Rhapsody is the greatest 
work ever to emerge from Tin Pan 
Alley, but has never before per
formed it. The conductor met 
Gershwin ten years ago in a Man
hattan chop-house where the jazz 
composer played the piano five con
secutive hours for the enraptured 
maestro.
. . . Earl Wilde
Photoelasticity . . .
continued from page 1 
was investigated and checked for 
design without the detection of a 
flaw in the calculations. The polariscope, however, showed immediate
ly that a serial number stamped on 
a member can be the Achilles 
heel of the design and can cause a 
failure.
The fame of the Carnegie Tech 
laboratory is now world-wide, and 
it has become the center for the ex
change of information on photo
elasticity. Dr. Frocht has present
ed about twenty-five scientific pa
pers on the subject and is now pre
paring the copy for his second vol
ume on photo-elesticity. The first 
book has already been published 
and has received many highly fav
orably reviews; some excerpts are 
as follows:
An excellent, thorough, and 
authoritative treatment of the sub
ject of photo-elasticity ...
. . . reflects excellently the spir
it in which the American engineer
ing wishes to have a matter pre
sented to him.
. . .a top-notch job. I will be 
looking forward with great interest 
to the appearance of volume II.
eMaoe. you Read Eltern Ijet?
Seventh Cross
Village in August
Edge of Darkness
Van Loons Lives
The Unvanquished
The New Yorker War 
Album
Only the Stars Are Neutral 
Suez to Singapore 
Sabotage 
They Were Expendable 
The Great Offensive 
Russians Dont Surrender
We Have These and Many More
CONTEMPORARY BOOKS
440 Wood Street
Leave all notices for ON THE CAMPUS 
in Tech P. O. Box 409 by Friday noon of 
the week before publication.
Flash! Important!
Flash! To Miss and Mister Car
negie Tech and all Techites at sea 
. . . Heap-big combination CwenScimitar Tea Dance, originally 
scheduled for this afternoon has 
been postponed until further notice. 
Reason unknown.
Citcom Clan Meeting
Citcomers give the best corpuscles 
in their blood stream . . . Citcom 
Clan announces a general meeting 
to be held tomorrow at 4:30 P. M. 
in room 122 of Engineering Hall. 
Purpose of the meeting is to get the 
members to donate their blood to 
the Red Cross Blood Drive.
Alpha Chi Alpha
Pat Elmans Alpha Chi Alpha gals 
will meet today in the Carnegie Inn 
at 11:30 A. M. Big things cookin
. . . Main idea of the meeting is to 
plan a future policy for improving 
the literary quality of campus pub
lications.
Music, Maestro, Please
Listening Hours
In the mood for a little music? 
Run over to Fine Arts, Room 157, 
every Monday at 4:30 and every 
Friday at 3:30. James Hunter, 
music stude and one man reception 
committee will introduce you to the 
Music Departments collection of 
2,500 records. You can play any 
records in the library, or, if you 
prefer, you may bring your own.
S. A. I. Recitals 
Sigma Alpha Iota, womens na
tional music honorary, is inaugurat
ing a new series of programs which 
are to be held in the Exhibition 
Room, Arts, on the last Friday of 
each month. First of the series will 
be open to the campus this Friday 
at 4:30.
Intersorority Council Meeting
The gals of the Intersority Coun
cil will meet tomorrow afternoon at 
4:30 in the Union. One of the ques
tions on the docket, we understand, 
is whether or not freshmen should 
be rushed this January.
Heartbreak House
Dont forget the show now play
ing in the Fine Arts Little Theatre. 
Every night this week at 8:15 with a 
matinees at 3:00 Friday afternoon 
Christmas Jobs Open
Our spies report that repre
sentatives of the Post Office will be 
on campus tomorrow at 4:30 to in
terview boys interested in working 
at the Post Office during the Christ
mas rush. All interested male stu
dents should contact Miss Monks of 
the Employment Office in Room 246 
of Industries Hall.
Office AccountNo Charge!
Ye hon. Editor comes in for a 
photo-finish to announce that all 
photographers interested in work
ing on the next issue of the Tartanette should report to the Tartan of
fice at 4:30 tomorrow afternoon.
THE
PLACE TO EAT 
OAKLAND
-isBILLS LUNCH ROOM
3911 Forbes Street
THE PROGRESS OF A 
COMMUNITY IS REFLECTED 
IN THE 
CHARACTER OF ITS BANKS 

MELLON 
NATIONAL BANK
MEMBER FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE 
CORPORATION
SI**0 Nr
A0 HAHKom
TheWIN GATE:
Handsome moccasin type oxford 
of smooth brown 
leather with that popular antique fin
ish. Half douoie sole, 
rubber heel. Any mans 
Fall favorite. Style No.
4516.
DtmgUt "Doum-re-tbt- Weed construct!* msmra btturfit, gnmttr ctm/ort.
203 FIFTH AVENUE
*417-19 East Ohio St., N. S. 66223 Frankstown Avc. (E. Liberty) 
1202 Market St., Wheeling Open Evenings

---------------------------------------------------

T
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1942THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
Tartans Show Surprising Power; 
Humble Favored Buffalo Team, 27-14
By Don French
Through excellent linework and 
good backfield playing the Carnegie 
Gridders smashed through to a 27 
to 14 victory over the considerably 
weaker University of Buffalo out
fit. Although the Techites were 
rated the underdogs in the en
counter by the downtown sportswriters, they seemed to have no 
trouble in trouncing the University 
of Buffalo squad; in fact, the first 
team saw comparatively little ac
tion since the second and third 
strings seemed adequate opposition 
for the Bisons.
A review of the statistics of the 
game demonstrates the over whelm
ing superiority of the Tartans. 
University of Buffalo made only five 
first downs as compared with Techs 
sixteen and of the yards gained 
rushing, Tech made 237 while the 
Bisons made but 27. However, the 
University of Buffalo held honors 
in passing with 175 yards gained to 
the Skibos 74. As is indicated by 
these statistics, the Bisons were 
foced into an aerial game due to the 
good line work of the Tartans.
The first period of play showed 
that the Tartans were superior; 
however, they were unable to score 
until the beginning of the second 
quarter when McLaughlin tossed a 
pass to Pash who ran to the Bisons 
five. From there Byers plunged 
across for the tally.
A few moments later Ramsay of 
Tech tackled Corriere. the Bisons 
main threat, on the latters five. 
However, Corriere fumbled but re
covered on his one yard line. Stand
ing behind his goal, he attempted to 
throw a pass but before getting rid 
of the ball Don Burns was on top of 
him, thus netting the Tartans an
other two points by the safety.
The second touchdown for the 
Tartans was almost a duplicate of 
the first, with Pash miraculously 
catching McLaughlins pass on the 
fifteen and running to the seven. 
Once again Byers plunged across, 
this time on his third attempt.
Early in the second half the Tech
ites managed to carry the ball to the 
nine yard line. The Bisons, prepar
ing for another smashing attack in
TOOL and DIE MAKING 
INSTRUMENT MAKING
Courses 3 to 12 Weeks
FOR MEN & WOMEN 
Expert Individual Instruction 
Write, Phoneor Call9 a.m.-9:30p.m. 
 We employ no solicitors ----
TECHNICAL
SCHOOLMETROPOLITAN
260 W. 41 St.. N.V. LOngacre 3-2180
Licnsed by State of New York
their men at the center, but were 
greatly surprised when Pash slip
ped around right end for the score.
Carnahan set up the final touch
down for the Techites when he in
tercepted Corrieres pass on the 
Bisons 25 and raced to the found 
from where Pash scored again.
Corriere figured prominently in 
the two touchdowns for the Univer
sity of Buffalo. The first score came 
in the second quarter on Corrieres 
33 yard pass to Grossi who then ran 
30 yards for the tally. This same 
team worked together for the sec
ond touchdown which came in the 
final quarter against the Tartan 
third stringers.
Intramural Football 
Nears Closing Stages
The Delta Tau Delta-Theta Xi 
game of a week ago yesterday turn
ed out to be the outstanding game 
of the week. It was a close game 
throughout all four quarters. The 
passing of Burt Basset, Theta Xi 
fullback, and the fine hard playing 
of Theta Xi pledge, Carlucci, made 
it a tough assignment for the Delts 
to win. With the score standing at 
22-17 at the end of the third quarter, 
the fourth period started off with a 
bang. Two first downs and a touch
down pass, Basset to Carlucci, made 
the score 24-22 in favor of the Theta 
Xis.
With four and a half minutes to 
go, the timer dropped the stop
watch, holding up the game until 
another could be secured. Then 
both teams were nip and tuck until 
the last one and a half seconds of 
play, when Basset attempted a pass 
to his left end which was inter
cepted by big Don Vogts who, with 
nice blocking, galloped his way to 
score for the Delts. Final tally was 
27-24, and spectators saw a mighty 
crestfallen and disappointed Theta 
Xi ball team start for home.
The Pikers managed to take the 
Betas for a ride to the tune of 23-7; 
but the Betas shouldnt fet consid
ering the score of the SAE-DU 
game, which the SAEs took 24-1. 
Along with the other teams, the 
Dorms have produced some teams 
that will give the fraternities some 
stiff competition.
Other results of last weeks 
games are: Citcom 18McGill 6,
Phi Kaps 39Sigma Nu 17, Zoots 
22Welch 11, Henderson 31Boss 
3, Tau Delts 15Sigma Nu 12. This 
week every attempt will be made to 
finish the schedule and declare the 
champions of the season.
YPEWRIShYeIl -IZo nS"wIZ weoPr c"EI
E" iPooIS Y"g "loIE a"t Zi"RI eo
Zelenski Sees Pitt; Victory
By Alex Zelenski
Sports Editor, Pitt News
Pitts battle-scarred football warriers will stumble into their tradi
tional city rivalry next Saturday afternoon against the Carnegie Tech 
Tartans, and for the first time this season will be on the top of the smart 
money.
Football players like Edgar Special Delivery Jones, Stanley Gervelis, 
and Ralph Fife just dont come off the Pittsburgh steel assembly lines and 
walk into the Cathedral of Learning.
And no one had this fact more forcibly demonstrated to him than the 
astute Charley Bowser, head coach of the gridiron Panthers. This trio of 
football aces whose cleats carved Pitt athletic history on the gridiron for 
the past three years plunged off the graduation gang-plank last June. And 
now, in the current campaign just how much their presence made in the 
past Pitt machine is being concretely proven.
The past two weeks against Indiana and Duke, Pitt did more to beat 
themselves than did their opponents. They suffered numerous penalties 
when playing the Hoosiers, consequently time after time they were de
prived of their right gain. At the final results, the officials were the largest 
gr*ound gainers. Last week the Blue Devils also showed a strong, fast 
team, but that old nemesis, the fumble, proved costly to the locals, and the 
Panthers sulked while the southern backs went running by, picking up bob
bles, to score a 28-0 victory.
Regardless of their poor record, it will be a very confident Blue and 
Gold squad that trots out on the field Saturday. The Pitt squad realizes 
that, although weak in reserves, they are a fine ball club, and that Tech, 
likewise weak in reserves is, at best, mediocre.
Still no one will expect a run-away battle. That never happens in the 
bitter rivalry between the two city schools. Whether Pitt is favored or 
whether they are under-dogs, Tech puts up a mighty fine battle.
Probably the outstanding man on the field will be Weston Willie 
Dutton, Pitts triple threat tailback. There is very little that the West Vir
ginia boy cannot do and do well. His kicking this year has been a bit short 
of miraculous, his passing accurate, and his line charges brilliant.
Supporting Dutton will be Jackie Stetler, Walter West, and Frank Saksa, and Tony Primo DiMattio. All are capable, experienced backs that are 
apt to play havoc against any aggregation in the country. But the line is 
weak. Quite adequate, but not the type that can out-rush, out-charge, and 
out-play combinations such as Indiana, Duke, Minnesota, Great Lakes, 
Nebraska, and Penn State.
Thats the Panther story. A poor football record, a capable, experi
enced first team without reserves, proper amount of confidence of a win 
over Tech, and the law of averages in their favor.
Yes siree...
Ice-cold Coca-Cola is more than thirstquenching. Yes siree. Its refreshing. Theres 
an art in its making. Theres sjudBLud in its 
production. The only thing like Coca-Cola is 
Coca-Cola itself. Nobody else can duplicate it.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY, PITTSBURGH, PA.

---------------------------------------------------

8THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1942
(The (fTarriecjie plaid
Al Kerstukos Heads Engineers
College of Engineerings newly 
appointed president, Albert Kerstu
kos, served last year as secretary of 
both Engineering and Student 
Council.
Al is a resident of Pittsburghs 
North Side and graduated with
. . . Albert Kerstukos
high honors from Oliver High 
School.
He has been an evening student at 
Carnegie Tech since the fall term of 
1936, and has made great progress 
both as a student and at his chosen 
work. In 1938, he earned his first 
Insignia award and since that time 
has been one of the most active stu
dents on the campus.
Employed by the Pennsylvania 
Electric Coil Company, A1 has gain
ed eminence, in the past two years, 
as a Motor Designer. His friends 
tell us he is very interested in his 
work and is ambitious to the extent 
of hoping to some day be president 
of the firm.
Tall, dark and athletic, A1 likes 
to swim, play tennis and dance (?). 
His press agent tells us he has a way 
with the wimin.
His most cherished possession is 
Alpha honorary fraternity. He is 
a member of the National Guards, 
and as one of the most important 
figures on the campus this year, we 
certainly are crossing our fingers 
hoping he will remain with us long 
enough to complete his term in of
fice.
College of Engineering is to be 
congratulated on its choice for 
President for we are sure that A1 
will live up to all expectations.
REMEMBER! 
SUITS gg 69c
SLACKSCleaned 
SWEATERS Pressed
Campus Cleaners
4609 Forbes Street
We Call and Deliver
November 14 Set For 
Evening All College 
Dance At Thistle Hall
Due to a conflict with the Day 
School social calendar, the date of 
the first Evening School Dance has 
been changed to Saturday, Novem
ber 14th. This dance is to be known 
as the All-College Dance and is 
open to all evening students and 
their friends.
This dance is one of two similar 
affairs to be held this semester and 
will take the place of the former in
dividual college dances held by the 
College of Engineering, Fine Arts 
and Industries. Admission to the 
dance will be by registration card 
or $1.10 per couple.
Coming as the first social event 
on the calendar, this is an oppor
tunity to come out and see how 
many of your old friends are back 
or missing, and also to become ac
quainted with new students, plus an 
enjoyable evening of dancing in 
Thistle Hall.
The Council encourages all stu
dents and their friends to support 
this function.
*7a *7<4e ZdUtasi
Dear Editor,
Every now and then I find a few 
moments to read the Plaid. I like 
to read the Plaid. I would read the 
Plaid if I could find one.
I realize that the evening school 
is in dire financial straits, because 
of decreased enrollment, decline in 
attendance at Council Dances, etc., 
and cannot see its way clear to 
mail the paper. I am not complain
ing about the newspaper situation 
rather I am asking, How may I ob
tain a paper? How can I keep up 
with students without a paper? I 
am willing to cooperate, will you?
(Signed) A. K.
Last Call For Tickets 
To Heartbreak House
All those interested in genuine 
drama had better hasten to the Reg
istrars Office where tickets may be 
procured for the current Little 
Theatre production Heartbreak 
House. Except for Sunday, Octo
ber 25th, a performance has been 
scheduled for evey evening from 
Saturday, October 24th to October 
31st. Of special interest to those 
free this Friday afternoon is the 
matinee performance starting at 
3:30 P. M. There is only a limited 
supply of tickets available, there
fore they should be obtained as soon 
as possible. Why not take advantage 
of this opportunity to spend a pleas
ant and entertaining evening among 
your friends and fellow students at 
no cost at all to yourself except the 
trouble of calling for your ticket.
Milton Bell is in the army now 
. . .We wont mention any names 
but a certain young lady is hoard
ing nylons  Her initials are Mary 
Hensler . . . Saw Bill Wilhelm try
ing to help out at the Election 
Party by eating all the nuts and 
cookiesthat made the load easier 
carting the darn stuff home . . . 
Who was the lovely lady with 
Philip Boyle on Saturday night? 
. . . Mary Joe Weber was at the 
Election Party on Saturday night 
but was that the regular heartbeat 
she had with her? . . . Dear Mr. 
Anthony:  Please get my girl 
friend a job where shell draw a big
ger salary so I can retire and we 
can get married, (signed, , John 
Heinz) . . . A1 Flanders seems to 
be carrying the torch for a certain 
tiny young ladytoo badall his 
dancing prowess going to waste . . . 
Thad Sowa, a lovely sight in his 
navy uniform ... ah gals! . . . 
Too bad hes not stationed in town 
. . . Here comes the bride!Steve 
Marcinizyn has finally broken 
down and admitted hes going to 
take the fatal step. November 
10th is the date, but he wont admit 
hes getting married; he says its 
only his girl whos getting hitched 
. . . Tonights $64.00 question! 
Whos the guy who comes in every 
Friday night and says Got any
thing for me to do, I have .to leave 
early  Thats alright Bob, we do 
appreciate all those nice heads you 
write for us . . . Say gals! Why not 
come over on Friday night and help 
out. Theres an overabundance of 
men, well share them with you.
Dana Stubbs Rolls First 
Ball In Share A Ride Plan
It is with great pleasure that we 
announce the name of Dana Stubbs, 
Sewickley, as being the first eve
ning student to offer a ride to and 
from school. Miss Stubbs travels by 
way of route 88, across Manchester 
Bridge and up the Boulevard of the 
Allies. Anyone interested in riding 
with her may make arrangements 
by calling Sewickley 249-W.
There is a large number of stu
dents in need of rides from many 
outlying points. If you have room 
in your car and are willing to share 
the ride, please write your name, 
address, and phone number as well 
as the route you travel to school
*
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
HOTEL WEBSTER 
HALL
Available For
PRIVATE PARTIES 
BANQUETS 
SWIMMING PARTIES
MAyflower 7700 
Fifth near Mellon Institute
The Carnegie Plaid
Page edited by Evening School Stu
dents of Carnegie Institute of Technology. 
All views or opinions expressed in edi
torial column are not necessarily endorsed 
by the Editorial Board of the Day School 
staff.
Editor 
Nancy E. Lewis 
Associate Editor of Engineering 
Robert C. King 
Staff
June Apel S. Marcinizyn
John Castellano D. Pettigrew, Jr.
Albert Kerstukos Pearl Pettola
Edward A. Macha Joseph M. Rymar
Evening School Needs 
Air Raid Volunteers
Will any of the Evening School 
Students and part-time faculty who 
have Red Cross First Aid Certifi
cates or are qualified as Air Raid 
Wardens, leave a copy of their 
schedules with Mr. McKelway in 
the Registrars Office. Open 7:00- 
9:00 every evening.
It is our purpose to utilize persons 
holding such certificates to man the 
first aid and shelter zone stations 
in case of an alert during the eve
ning.
Lectures At Carnegie Hall
Carnegie Music Hall will feature 
Town Hall Lectures this season and 
the following speakers will be 
heard: Fulton Lewis, Jr., Wednes
day, November 4; Dorothy Thomp
son, Tuesday, November 17; Pierre 
Van Paassen, Tuesday, December 
8; Margaret Bourke-White, Wednes
day, February 17. All lectures will 
be followed by a question and an
swer period. Tickets are on sale at 
May Beegle Office  AT. 3051, and 
MellorsAT. 3783.
Notice
If there are any students eligible 
to hold office in the College of Fine 
Arts and Industries who may be in
terested in doing so, it is requested 
that they get in touch with Student 
Council President, Steve Marcin
izyn, Box 353, Carnegie Tech. All 
four offices are open in Industries 
and in Fine Arts the offices of VicePresident, Secretary and .Treasurer 
are unfilled.
on a sheet of paper. Deposit this 
information in the post box in Ad
ministration Hall addressed to The 
Plaid, Carnegie Union, 5025 Forbes 
Street, Pittsburgh, Pa. (no postage 
necessary), and we will publish this 
news as it is submitted.
Why Walk A Mile?
25 ft. to Barber Shop 
and Beauty Parlor
CAMPUS BARBER
and
BEAUTY SHOP
Corner Margaret Morrison and 
Forbes Street
MAyflower 3921
