Your organisation budget 
for Student Council is overdud now,Carnegieartan
An old-time pep rally is in 
the making! Read Cregut, 
page 5.
VOL. 41No. 2CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1947
Marvin Gustafson Takes Helm 
As Cano Begins Second Year
CIT Literary Magazine Seeks Contributions; 
Student Writers Offered Critical Services
Electing Marvin R. Gustavson as editor, Cano has begun 
its second year as the literary 
magazine of CIT.
Marvin is an honor student 
in the chemistry department 
in addition to being president 
of the Chemistry club, a mem
ber of Student Council, welfare 
chairman of Citcom Clan, a 
member of the mathematics 
club, and former flexible copy 
editor of the Carnegie Techni
cal.
His staff, incomplete at present, 
consists of Allan H. Stark, man
aging editor, Edward von Halle, 
features editor, and the members 
of the Literary board. This board 
is composed of the outstanding 
writers from the three colleges.
Its present members are Carl N.
Klahr. Sheila Berger, Lester A.
Trimble, Robert T. Siegal, George 
S. Stupakis, and Howard Palmer.
One or two more members may 
be added later in the semester in 
order to achieve a more balanced 
representation from the various 
schools.
Dial Press Award
During the summer the first 
Cano staff produced the special 
Dial Press Award Issue composed 
of sample writings of Miss Gladys 
Schmitts creative writing class.
All Things are Equal, a selection 
from a novel being written by 
Lester A. Trimble, was the feature 
story of the issue and received a 
$250 award from the Dial Press.
This issue was the last one put 
out under the direction of John C.
Stephenson, first editor of Cano.
Mr. Stephenson graduated from 
the department of chemical engi
neering at the end of the summer 
trimester at the head of his class.
Cano is a unique organization in 
many respects. Its material con
sists entirely of creative writings
MARVIN GUSTAFSON
by the student body. Any literary 
form is acceptable  the essay, 
short story, poemand the wider 
the variety of topics and treat
ments, the more completely the 
purpose of the magazine is ful
filled.
Criticisms Given
All material turned in is studied 
by the members of the Literary 
board, and is criticized and dis
cussed by them at an informal 
weekly meeting. No corrections 
aret made on the copy; everything 
it returned to the author with the 
criticisms of the board. If a piece 
promises to be acceptable the cor
rections which the board feels are 
necessary are suggested. If the 
piece cannot be used, it is still 
accorded a complete critique 
which is individually relayed to 
the writer.
The critical function of the Lit
erary board is in fact its most im
portant service, for it gives stu
dents who have literary leanings 
but who lack time to pursue ad
vanced English courses an oppor[Continued on page 6]
Organization Budgets Head Agenda 
At First Fall Meeting Of Council
Allowances To Be Pared To Absolute Minimum By Investigation; 
Increased Costs Will Be Considered, George Marshall States
Organization budgets will head the agenda of the first fall meeting of Student Council, 
on Monday, October 13.
Payment of the activities honoraries initiation fees will be considered if time permits, 
with the dissolution of Interhonorary Council probably being left for the following week.
Costs have increased considerably since last year, said Council president George Mar
shall, and our budget for this year will allow for this rise.
There is nothing definite as yet, and no exact upper limit has been set. We have been 
looking over the budgets carefully, and many of them will come up at the first meeting for 
either approval or return to the activities which proposed them with requests for downward 
revisions. 
When asked about such organizations as WCIT, campus radio station, which are now
?axpanding and are asking for major increases in their budgets, Mar
shall stated that Council would do what it could to help such ac
tivities gain reasonable objectives.
The angry comments being received from many business man
agers and treasurers concerning the close investigations of their bud
gets which are now in progress drew a prompt reply.
Student Council is not trying to hamper anyone, or to deprive
?any organization of what it actual1947Technical 
Redesigned
P&D Students Present 
New Ideas In Project
The revitalized Carnegie Tech
nical magazine is the result of the 
spring semester project of the 
seniors of the painting and design 
department.
All Of the suggestions for re
designing the magazine were care
fully studied and finally reduced 
to five outstanding ideas. These 
were then given to the editorial 
board of the Technical, consisting 
of Robert Siegel, editor; Walter
Ambrose,
Philip Pearlstein, art editor; and 
Lee Goldman of the art staff. 
These men then compiled all the 
ideas on a basis of art and costs, 
resulting in a newer and better 
Technical. Additional improve
ments are planned for later edi
tions.
Sam Brister has written the fine 
feature article for the October 
issue, Short Range Weather 
Forecasting and Lee Goldman 
made up the cover.
School Reveals 
Sixty-six Changes 
In Faculty, Staff
Three Department Heads, 
Eight Newly-Created Jobs 
In Latest Appointments
The administration has an
nounced sixty-six faculty appoint, ments as of October 1 to help
ma na g i-n g- edi^orr .maintain the high level of teaching
Graham RenbergT Tayolit editor; standards at Carnegie.
123 Freshmen Join Fraternities 
During First Weeks of Rushing
Ranks of the eleven fraternities have been swelled by the ad
dition of 123 men in the first week of freshmen rushing.
Each fraternity had its share of stag affairs labelled variously 
as smokers, beer parties, or informal stag functions. On Saturday 
the houses played host to both girls and boys, holding informal 
dances, with the Kappa Sigs boasting Billy Le Roys orchestra.
Sunday saw North Park taken over by Carnegie Tech as the
and^Delts, Beta Sigs, A T Os 
T Xs held picnics. The Sigma 
Nus practically took over the 
park with a stag party on Thurs
day evening and a hayride Sun
day night. The D Us and the Phi 
Kaps put out a welcome hand to 
all with open houses on Tuesday 
and Sunday respectively.
Those pledged at the end of the 
week were: Beta Sigma Rho:
Alan Oppenheimer, Bob Broida, 
Steven Broady, Jerry Miller, Ed
ward Miller, Earl Latterman, Jer
ry Barnes, David Greenberg, A1 
Julius, and Robert Klein; Alpha 
Tau Omega: Conrad Hammann, 
Robert Zinkham, Lowell Cook, 
Bernard Toth, Dale Stein, Robert 
Hess, Richard Snedden, Robert 
Fletcher, Louis Fougere, Carl 
Woleslagle, Henry Perry, James 
Wallace, Richard Peterson, 
Charles Sa; d Glass,
Franklin Lini.rd Slough, 
Robert McCollough, Raymond 
Seidensticker, John Warner, Wil
liam Cole.
Sigma Nu: Raymond Boyle, Ed
ward Du Bois, James Fegan, 
James Graeff, Arthur Hansen, 
Lenard Ingham, Herbert Maddalene, Harold Moelker, Michael 
Dastrick, Jack Petemell, Frank 
Roth, Cambell Scott, Paul Stock, 
Bill Smith, Jim Thorp, Floyd 
Wiseman.
Fraternities Select 
Delta Tau Delta: John Venable, 
John Monstream, Robert Wendler, 
Elmer Bare, Clark Morton, John 
Roslund, Romaine Johnston, 
James Taylor, Dick Spahr, Jay 
Johnson, Dick Holl, Jim Young.
Beta Theta Pi: Donald McHugh, 
Cecil Minor, Robert Baker, Wil
liam Pollock, Huot Fischer, Jo
seph Wrinreich.
Delta Upsilon: Charles Vaughan, 
Stark Drischell, Paul McClafferty, 
Regis Weber, Henry Klugh, Gorden Hanson, Ralph McNatt.
Phi Kappa: William Trimble, 
Leonard Bianchi, Robert Sledzik, 
Robert Polecek, William Shanghnessy, John Strobell, John Tricaraco, Michael Milecheck, Robert 
Dougherty, Joseph Lerme, Eugene 
Hapsey, Frank Stitt, Emmett King, 
Leland Green, Robert Watterson. 
More Pledges
Tau Delta Phi: Sheldon Portman, Robin Molney, Martin 
Schwartz, Bernard Bogin, Arthur 
Zuch, Gary Grossberg, David 
Steiner, Merle Becman, Lewis 
Sternberg, Malcolm Samakow, 
Leonard Smaller, Stuart Berkowitz, Sheldon Siegel.
Kappa Sigma: David Burk,
Robert Nelson, Frank Motter, Le
roy Bergstrom, Ernest Screen, 
William Poison, Thomas Fields, 
John Braun, Robert Stevens, John 
Schuster, August De Givanni.
Theta Xi: Duane Sample, Ar
thur Christopher, Henry Dansak, 
Delbert Buttons, Henry Carlsen, 
David Stevenson, Michael Svayko, 
William Stewart, Robert Walters, 
Richard Zimmerman, William Eppehimer.
Pi Kappa Alpha: Thomas Fidance, George Cash, Donald Cul
ler, Richard Johnson, William 
Dorn, Logan Savage, Robert Car
penter, David Cooper, Frank 
Lempart, Eugene Sapper.
The list of new appointments 
contains three new department 
heads: B. von Haller Gilmer, nam
ed a professor and head of the 
department of psychology and ed
ucation; Dennistoun Wood VerPlanck, former professor of elec
trical engineering, now professor 
and head, department of mechan
ical engineering; and Bruce But
tles, associate professor and head, 
department of printing. Also nam
ed was John Knox Shear, appoint
ed an associate professor and as
sistant head of the department of 
architecture.
Other new appointments include 
two professors, three associate 
professors, thirteen assistant pro
fessors, and forty-four instructors 
The administration has also creat
ed eight other new positions to 
handle the increased volume of its 
work.
The new professors include 
Webster Aitken, visiting profes 
sor of piano; Gaylord Wallis Pen 
ney, George Westinghouse pro 
fessor of engineering.
The new associate professors 
are Melva B. Bakkie, Home Eco
nomics; Bert F. Hoselitz, econom
ics; and Hans Vetter, visiting as
sociate professor of architecture.
Among the administration ap
pointments are: Benjamin E. Da
vid, assistant dean of men; Mrs. 
Charles H. Rannells, Jr., assist
ant dean of women; and William 
Patrick Taylor, head of mens 
dormitories. These additions and 
changes have been necessitated by 
the record enrollment.
ly needs. We are not out to get 
anyone.
If any increased stringency has 
been noticed, it can be ascribed to 
material increase in the efficiency 
of Councils operation.
Student Council actually has 
two budgets, Marshall explain
ed.
One is appropriated directly to 
Council, and is used for the groups 
operating expenses, such as sta
tionery, supplies, and keys. An 
emergency fund is also provided 
for in this sum with which Coun
cil, can give first aid to an ac
tivity m trouble, making up th' 
deficit caused by a poorly at
tended dance or a printing budget 
exceeded.
Of course, he said, our funds 
for such purposes are strictly lim
ited. They can be stretched, in 
some cases, however, so that we 
can get up a small activity or sup
ply the initial expenses for a 
larger one.
The second budget covers the 
needs of all of the other organi
zations, and is apportioned among 
them through the Council treasur
er, Art Naylor.
Both of these budgets have 
been increased, he concluded, 
but we are still under pressure 
from everyone to give them every
thing which they demand.
We are going to do our best, 
however. We should pass most of 
the budgets now, and approve the 
remainder of them within the next 
few meetings.
First Play Named
Secret Service, a four-act melo
drama of the Civil War, has been 
selected as the first play of the 
year to be presented by the drama 
department. Directed by Talbot 
Pearson, the play will run from 
November 11 to November 19, 
with a matinee scheduled for the 
afternoon of November 14.
Casting for the play began last 
week, and is to be completed this 
afternoon.
Campus Sees 
Sales Drive
Registration lines and Skibo 
were the sale scenes of the new 
semesters first Scottie. The en
tire campus was used to support 
posters, banners, and assorted 
stampings which publicized the 
event.
The Scotties publicity manager 
called the circulation campaign a 
success.
After many months of diligent 
activity he began, the new Scot
tie staff finally fulfilled the an
cient promise to publish a maga
zine well worth the sales price 
and interesting enough to warrant 
reading by everyone and anyone 
concerned with Carnegie Tech.
New students did not recog
nize the change but upperclass
men saw at a glance the tremend
ous improvement of this years 
Scottie over those printed in the 
past. Without a doubt the October 
issue was better than any remem
bered by present Carnegie Tech 
[Continued on page $]

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1947
ClarncgiEilattan
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes St., Pittsburgh, Pa.TELEPHONE: SC. 4557; after hours EM. 9424.
Editor-in-Chief ................................................ Hubert I. AaronsonBusiness Manager ..................................... Edward F. Friedman
Associate Editor .................................................... Anthony Arrott
Managing Editor ............................................. Harry J. Silverman
Personnel Manager .............................................William P. Cohen
News EditorBerry M. Rowles, Sports EditorPeter Cregut, 
Copy EditorRobert W. Johnson, Make-up EditorShirley E. Seiner, Assistant Business ManagerSamuel Moses, Ad
vertising ManagerMartin S. Miller, Circulation Manager Ivan Faigen, ColumnistsCarl N. Klahr, Martin Dorff, Viera Kulamer, PhotographersAmes Penfleld, Daniel P. Franks, 
William D. Benswanger.StaffWilliam J. McShane, Dale A. Wright, Doris Mae Becker, Sema Moskowitz, Robert H. Smith, Frederick R. Johnson, Estelle Mattes, Susan Foster, Charles Pollis, Mildred Teague, Robert C. Abelson, Jeanne Fischman, Dorothy Gerkin, Angela Pollis, Beatrice Patterson, Lois Sloan, Anslie Bricker, Mar
jorie Powers, Aaron Latkin.
Represented for national advertising by NATIONAL ADVERTISING, Inc., College Publishers Representative, 420 Madison 
Ave., New York City.Entered as second class matter under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in the Act of February 28, 1925, authorized October 
21, 1918. _____________________________________
Student Council Awakens
The recent spawning period for CIT extra
curricular activities has come to an end.
Budget troubles and failures of internal 
organization seem to underlie most of these 
failures. The administration claims a short
age of funds for activities this yearprices 
are going up, there are more organizations 
than ever before, and everyone is putting in 
well-justified, claims for sizeable increases in 
their appropriations. So the borderline activi
ties are being squeezed out, and even the 
major units such as the Tartan are having 
much difficulty with those whose job it is to 
pare budgets.
But the slow retrenchment which these 
background causes will produce is being speed
ed up by another influence. Student Council 
has come back to life.
Dissolution of IH
Scheduled to appear before either the first 
or second meeting of Council is a motion to 
dissolve the Interhonorary Council. Accusing 
... of being a gift tree hung w'ith keys which 
gives little in return for the bright baubles 
with which it is laden each year. Council mem
ber Jack Seward is trying to end its existence.
We decline to comment on this individual 
issue. The new tone which Student Council is 
displaying is the more valuable point for study 
and comment.
The Pendulum Swings
Instead of forming a smooth channel for 
budgets and awards, our leaders are now show
ing signs of fulfilling their functions. They are 
critically re-evaluating the organizations for 
which they are responsible, are examining bud
gets, and are questioning awards. All of this 
activity will appear prominently in the Tar
tan, and this coverage will partly spur the 
chairmen of the various Council committees 
to a further weeding out of the useless and the 
inefficient. Obtaining Student Councils appro
priation for anything may soon become as dif
ficult an operation as reaching the head of a 
bookstore line, as the pendulum begins to 
swing high in the opposite direction.
We think it best that a little friction be 
applied to the pendulum.
Many Lack Experience
Many of Councils members have had but 
narrow experience in the scores of campus ac
tivities. There are simply too many of them 
on campus to permit most people to work on 
more than a few. And anyone who has not 
put on a last-minute radio program, written a 
story for a newspaper at 2 a. m., or cut days 
of classes to participate in a musical will not 
have a completely accurate conception of the 
work involved in an activity.
What seems to be poorly done and easily 
correctable may well be the same problem 
with which the organization has struggled un
successfully for ten or more years.
And so before Student Councils investi
gators turn down an appropriation to expand 
a radio station or to obtain ' printer 
for a magazine, they might well find out just 
exactly what they are refusing, and what their 
no will mean.
Passing Parade
Says Who ?
By Carl Klahr
If a mouse can gnaw at a lions mane and if 
the worm on the fishing line can make eyes at a 
trout, perhaps it is even allowable for an American 
citizen to ponder the doings of his duly elected 
Congress.
Because ponder he must, celebrate like blue 
blazes hes got to, especially when he thinks of 
the present high prices and of the Congressional 
committees investigating them. Honestly, the pres
ent alarm over high prices reminds one of noth
ing more vividly than the recent four-alarm fire 
in Dogpatch, where Mammy Yokum and the mili
tant matriarch fought over who would be fire chief 
while the opry house burnt down.
Way Back in 1946
Way back in May 1946, however, when some
thing could still be done about it and Congress was 
debating extension of the O.P.A., there were plenty 
of people, most of them not experts, who were al
ready squawking about high prices. Even this be
nighted columnist whose opinions are usually as 
authoritative as last years bathing suit fashions, 
saw enough light to come up with the follow
ing pronunciamento:
Despite the consensus of public opinion polls 
that a majority of the American people favor an 
extension of OPA in some form and of its hold-theline policy, Congress sees fit to go its own lone
some way. This will cut deeply into your personal 
life. What is needed is a general revamping of the 
original ceiling prices. It is ridiculous to throw cau
tion to the winds merely because the price situa
tion is confused. Let OPA simplify its present set 
up. If this is impossible, as many business men 
disgusted with bureaucratic procedure assert, it 
is still better to keep red tape rather than face 
the consequences of no price control.
The ones who will profit from an inflation will 
be those businessmen who will raise prices to their 
hearts content in this shortage-riddled post-war 
period. The theory that the stimulus uncontrolled 
prices give to manufacturing will force price levels 
down is a bogus rationalization.
1920 vs. 1947
For the benefit of hermits and others who have 
not bought a candy bar, an ice cream cone, a pea
nut butter sandwich or a steak recently, the Bureau 
of Labor Statistics recently announced a very fit
ting follow up story to this. It seems that 1920 
was our top inflation yearthe year it was cheaper 
to sole a pair of shoes with dollar bills than with 
leather. Well, read on MacDuff what the good word 
is for 1947. Meat is now about twenty-five cents a 
pound higher than in 1920. Coal is two dollars a 
ton higher. It costs about 10% more to furnish a 
home now than it did in 1920, and 40% more to 
break a leg or to go to the movies. The present 
high prices are completely unprecedented despite 
the many people who have been shaking warn
ing fingers.
It is becoming quite a mystery to us how some 
people find the money to pay these prices, says a 
government statistician. Well, brother, its no mys[Continued on page 6]
The Houses That Jack Built
Tartan Makeup, Content 
Changed for Neiv Effect
The Tartan is undergoing another period of 
modification. This process is not unusual  any 
collegiate newspaper group which fails to alter the 
work of its predecessors is a group to be looked 
upon either with awe or with suspicion, depending 
upon its past records.
The primary features of the new makeup are 
the use of a new flaghead, the introduction of 
ruled lines between the columns, and a redivision 
of the columns on the editorial page.
Why?
To give the Tartan more of the appearance of 
a good daily newspaper, reproduced in miniature 
with respect to physical size and scope of news 
coverage. This might be interpreted as an unfor
tunate failure to insist upon something entirely 
new and different. But the Tartan prefers to 
work for its improvement through the already 
proven channels of the best of modern journalism, 
adopting the usages which harmonize with modern 
type and tabloid size to the needs of collegiate 
journalism.
The news and features content of the Tartan is 
also beginning to change. Attempts are being made 
to cover the campus as completely as the limita
tions of a new staff will permit, and to extend this 
coverage in depth as well as in area.
Feature stories will appear which will att 
to explain and interpret campus movement 
introduce the student body to parts of the school 
in which they are interested but have not had 
time to visit
Library fines have been increased slightly solely as a 
means of making scarce books available to all students.
Undergraduates Find Positions 
Plentiful For Summer Vacation
Most undergraduates not in^- 
school this summer spent their va
cations making money rather than 
loafing, as many had claimed they 
would.
A stop at the Dean of Mens of
fice revealed that almost all job 
hunting students fared rather 
well, for jobs were quite plentiful 
and pay was relatively high de
spite the general cutbacks in per
sonnel imposed by the price spiral.
A short interview with Miss 
Stewart in the employment office 
provided the following informa
tion: Engineers found the best jobs 
with the large industrial firms 
which normally hire Carnegie 
graduates. Since these concerns 
desire to meet and evaluate pros
pective engineers before they 
graduate they file lists of sum
mer job opportunities with the 
employment office several weeks 
before vacation begins. By tak
ing such a job a student has an 
opportunity to look over the com
pany and his field before he grad
uates.
General Employment
In the way of general employ
ment, the Summer Operetta pro
vided usher work for some 58 stu
dents from Carnegies campus. 
These students had the questiona
ble honor of making money while 
seeing the operettas for nothing.'
Secretarials had the greatest 
difficulty in getting jobs. The in
creased wages imposed by the 
high labor demands caused many 
companies to cut their normal 
quota of vacation fill-in typists to 
a minimum. It was therefore nec
essary to screen out all but those 
girls who could definitely be class
ed as secretaries. For example the 
employment office was able to sup
ply only three clerical positions.
But of all the departments,
printing faired the worst. There 
were no jobs available whatsoever 
However, this condition can be 
traced directly to union control.
Strikes Cause Headache
Strikes caused the greatest 
headache to the employment office. 
Students laid off because of a 
strike would return to the office 
for additional work, thus over
loading the already overworked 
staff. In another instance, the em
ployment office established and 
filled an evening schedule of parttime work for a large company. As 
soon as that companys union 
heard of the idea, it threatened a 
general strike and the entire 
proposition had to be dropped 
And at the present time an ar
rangement with the Railway Ex
press which would provide work 
from 8:00 to 12:00 each night is be
ing held up because of a strike in 
New York.
Overall Reports Good
The overall reports of summer
time work for Carnegie men and 
women are good. Such reports a? 
the employment office has receiv
ed from employers concerning the 
quality of the Tech students work 
have all been voluntary and fav
orable. Unfortunately the employ
ment office has not until recently 
been sufficiently staffed to cop6 
with the vast problem of placing 
undergraduates in summertime 
employment. In the future, how
ever, a more aggressive program 
is planned weherein the office will 
contact firms where likely job op
portunities exist.
The office also plans to send 
with each student a letter of in
troduction, part of which may be 
returned to comment upon the 
students work and ability.
The Church Of The Redeemer
(Episcopal)
5700 Forbes Street 
HUGH S. CLARK, RECTOR
------------------------H------------------------
SUNDAY SERVICES 
Holy Communion .................................................................... 8 a? m.
Morning Prayer and Sermon ........................................... 11 a. m.
(Holy Communion on 1st Sunday of Month at 11 a. m.)
TECH CANTERBURY CLUB Luncheon after Church on 
1st Sunday of month, 1 p. m. 
also:
Every Thursday at Carnegie Inn (11:301:30) 
------------------------??-------------------
All Students Welcome

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1947THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
New Parking Lots and Buildings 
Change Appearance of Campus
Dean of Men 
Gets Aide
Spring Carnival Committee 
Asks For Volunteer Workers
Citcom Releases 
First Issue Of 
Citcommentator
School Acquires Classrooms, Laboratories 
Under New Government War Surplus Bill
The Federal Works agency has augmented classroom and labor
atory facilities here with three temporary frame buildings which were 
erected during the summer. The cost of delivering and setting up 
the building was largely borne by the government.
Two new parking lots have also been constructed, one of which 
will serve to relieve present over-crowded facilities. The other will 
restore parking space now occupied by one of the new frame buildings.
One of the structures erected^ 
contains a lead-lined room which 
will be used for X-ray investiga
tion by Carnegies Metals Research 
Laboratory. This one-story build
ing will also house two classrooms, 
a large lecture room, a design 
laboratory, a chemical research 
laboratory and five offices for en
gineering faculty members.
The second one-story building 
will be used for receiving and as
sembling parts for Carnegies 
projected synchro-cyclotron, and 
for storage of college property, t 
The third structure, which will 
not be ready for use until some 
time in November, will house 
three classrooms and a lecture 
room on its first floor. On the sec
ond floor there will be seven of
fices and two storage areas.
The inter-school telephone sys
tem has also been greatly mod
ernized and it will now be possi
ble to dial directly between of
fices without talking to the op
erator. Most of the phones, which 
were on party lines, are now on 
individual lines. Much greater 
efficiency is expected from the 
new system.
Staff Promises 
Changed Thistle
A truly different Thistle is 
promised for this year. A changed 
cover, more pictures, and shorter 
articles will be among the new 
features.
Freshmen are urged to join the 
staff of the Thistle quickly, for 
their opportunity to work on the 
publication is limited, since the 
Editorial Board consists entirely 
of sophomores and juniors, seniors 
not being allowed to participate.
Anyone who worked on his high 
school yearbook, or who has had 
experience in art, photography, or 
layout is invited to visit the This
tle Office on the third floor of the 
Carnegie Union where meetings 
are held on Tuesdays and Fridays 
at 2 p. m.
Clark Sloan is the editor of this 
years publication, and he is as
sisted by Helen Brody and Myar 
Barry. John Bigley is business 
manager, while the advertising is 
handled by Lolly Anderson.
The number of Thistles to be 
published is again limited to 1,000 
copies, 600 of which were sold at 
registration. The remainder will 
be offered for sale to seniors in 
Skibo around December 1. After 
a week of limited sale, father stu
dents will be permitted to buy 
any that remain.
The executive board of the Cit
com Clan made up and distributed 
the first issue of the Citcommentator last Friday. The paper was dis
tributed at the Citcom mixer and 
at Skibo.
Citcommentator is the weekly 
news organ of the Carnegie com
muters organization, Citcom Clan. 
The members of the executive 
board who made up this first is
sue are Ken Hall, president; Jack 
Ewart, vice-president; Alberta 
Cuneo, secretary; and Sam West, 
treasurer.
Editor Judy dAmbrosi has an
nounced that there are many 
openings on the staff for those 
interested in writing news, fea
tures, and sports, or in helping 
with the make-up of the paper.
The Citcom mixer was held 
Friday evening in the Union for 
frosh guests and members of Cit
com. The party was featured by 
dancing, bridge, and a light re
freshment of cider.
A newcomer to the administra
tion this fall is Assistant Dean of 
Men Ben E. David of Delaware, 
Ohio. Dean David occupied a sim
ilar position at Ohio State where 
he organized and operated a stu
dent counseling system.
His duties at CIT are supervisor 
of part time employment and 
counselor to staffs of various stu
dent organizations, with particu
lar reference to budgets. He also 
will work with the Inter-Frater
nity Council and serve on the fra
ternity faculty advisers commit
tee.
Previously Dean David worked 
as a free lance writer specializing 
in features, a publicity manager 
for Sonja Henie, and as a repor
ter and city editor on a Delaware, 
Ohio newspaper.
VA Gives Raise To 
Disabled Veterans
Public Law 338 provides for 
automatic increases in the mini
mum allowances paid veterans in 
training under Public Law 16 
whose disabilities are rated at 30 
per cent or higher.
The new minima are $115 a 
month without dependents and 
$135 a month with one dependent. 
Additional allowances are made 
for more than one dependent. The 
law requires no action by disa 
bled trainees entitled to the high
er rates because the increases, ef 
fective September 1, 1947, will be 
paid automatically with the fol
lowing check.
PAUSE FOR COKE RELAXES GOLFERS
Father Rice 
Speaks Here
Youve got to turn out early to make Spring Carnival a success, 
says Wilton Hawkins, chairman of the Carnival committee. New 
Workers with new ideas will put it across.
Organization of the orchestra, equipment, and program commit
tees will start as soon as volunteers appear. Those who want to make 
Spring Carnival really function are asked to turn their names in to 
Box 394 interschool mail, telling which particular activities they
^desire to work on.
Sub-committees scheduled thus 
far are: orchestra, which engages 
name bands for the dances; dec
oration, which dresses up the 
gym; publicity, which handles 
posters and news stories; parade, 
which marshals several spec
tacles and call day committee. 
Other activities which must be 
organized are the sweepstakes, 
canoe tilting, tickets, midway, 
program, plus a variety of new 
events.
Hawkins, president of ODK, is 
now trying to interest everyone 
who has formerly felt left out of 
the festivities. Suggestions for 
new contests and prize events are 
needed. The Carnival committee 
must have the support of every 
group on campus now.
Labor priest Father Rice 
spoke at a meeting of the Inter
collegiate Discussion- Group, held 
in the Carnegie Union at 8:00 p. 
m., Thursday, October 9.
This meeting of the Discussion 
Group, which has chapters at 
PCW, Duquesne, University of 
Pittsburgh, and CIT, was spon
sored by the Duquesne unit.
Father Rice, who visited Ire
land during the summer, dis
cussed the social and economic 
problems now faced by Great 
Britain. He stated that there is 
both moral and practical right 
behind American aid to the British 
Empire, and that we should sup
ply sufficient funds to put the 
British economy back on a work
ing basis.
He commented that rebuilding 
a presently going concern appears
tearing down the old one and 
building once again.
The talk was followed by dis
cussions held in small groups on 
many subjects and later by re
freshments. All those interested 
in the next meeting to be held on 
October 23, are invited to contact
to be a better proposition than senior chemist Richard G. Boch
WEAR
5872 Forbes St. Squirrel Hill
Open Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday Evenings
Arrow Shortsl
... make your sittingroom comfortable
$1 to $1.50
Faculty Memorial Fund 
Receives Contributions
Contributions have recently 
been made to the Faculty Memor
ial Scholarship Fund by the gen
eral faculty and by friends in 
memory of Professors Boyd C. 
Dennison and Vincent G. Parisi, 
both of whom died during the past 
summer.
This fund, which perpetuates 
the memory of deceased faculty 
members who have devoted years 
of faithful service to Carnegie 
Tech, is used to help needy stu
dents who are advised of the pur
pose of the fund and in whose 
memory the money is given.
Contributions to this fund are 
not limited to the faculty but are 
open to anyone wishing to give in 
memory of those deceased to cre
ate a worthy memorial to these 
men and women oi Carnegie Tech.
Theres not t squirm in a carload 
of Arrow shorts with the patented 
seamless 'crotch that cant bind, 
cant chafe.
Arrow gives you four different models to choose from 
elastic side, adjustable tie-side, elastic all around 
and French backin white or stripes.
See your Arrow dealer for Arrow shorts. Every pair 
is Sanforized-labeled (cant shrink more than 1%), 
and comes with grippers or buttons. $1 to $1.50.
ARROW SHIRTS and TIES
M  - . ............  -----1-..........-
UNDERWEAR  HANDKERCHIEF* JL SPORTS SHIRTS
5*
plus lc State Tax
empty bottles
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COAPANY BY
COCA COLA BOTTLING CO. OF PA., PITTSBURGH, PA.
O 1947 Th* C-C Co.

---------------------------------------------------

iTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1947
Soccer Team Looks Powerful, 
Competent Observers Report
OConnor Optimistic About Coming Season 
With Fifteen Veterans and Twenty Recruits
Carnegie Techs soccer team is 
shaping into what competent ob
servers believe will be a powerful 
squad. The 35 men out for the 
team include 15 returning from 
the 1946 booters.
After one week of intensive 
training, Coach Pat OConnor is 
optimistic about the coming sea
son. The experienced returning 
players and the scrappy newcom
ers give promise of putting on a 
tough fight for every position.
The squad once again is com
posed of an extremely strong 
backfield, with the front line be
ing the problem child. Reliable 
Marty Dorff is back at goal, where 
he played last year. The fullback 
jobs are wide open with a number 
of capable men fighting it out. Ed 
McGee, a 210 pounder and co
captain of the squad, is believed 
to have the edge. Others out for 
that position are Hartman, Flem
ing, Bickerstaff, and Black. Those 
competing for the halfback slot 
are co-captain Willy Williams, 
George De Moraes, Otto Abraham, 
Ernie Sandberg, and Dino Comis.
In the front line, Bill Perry, a 
letterman from the 1945 team and 
Howie Gardner, a veteran from 
the 1943 squad, show the most 
promise at outside left. Kroko, 
Hamilton, and Schiller are fight
ing it out at outside right. Bill 
deVos, a newcomer from West 
Philadelphia, and Jack Burrey, a 
freshman from Shadyside, have 
been playing good ball in the cen
ter of the line, steadied by de
pendable Don Hart, a veteran from 
last years team.
Because the contest for each po
sition is so close the starting line
up probably will not be chosen 
until the Tartans line up against 
the Frostburg booters on Octo
ber 18.
BELLSYSTEM
Carnegie Opens Season Against 
West Virginia Wesleyan Saturday
Coach Donohoe Picks Starters After Intrasquad Scrimmage; 
Wesleyan Bobcats in Med-Season Form; Record 2 Wins, 1 Loss
On Saturday, October 18, at 2:30 at Forbes field, the 1947 Carnegie Tech football team 
opens its season against the West Virginia Wesleyan Bobcats. Students will enter the field by 
gate 31, adjacent to the main gate on Bouquet street, and will occupy sections 4, 5, 6, and 7.
Most of the pre-season practice has been devoted by the Tartan squad to developing 
their offensive. Last Saturday the squad engaged in a game-length scrimmage to enable Coach 
Donahoe to pick his starting line-up.
Norm Keats, who had been running at the blocking post, was shifted back to his posi
tion at tackle in order to bolster the line. Injuries have been few but at the present time Bob 
McKee is sidelined with a back injury and John Williamson is out with a pulled leg muscle. 
McKee is expected to be ready by Saturday but Williamson is a doubtful starter for this game.
* The boys from Buckhammon, 
W. Va., will be engaging in their
Pappy Leads 
Tartan Team
"I help make 
your telephone 
service the 
worlds best"
"About 50 years before you were bornback in 1877I 
started making telephone equipment for the nation.
"As the manufacturing and supply member of the Bell 
Telephone team, Ive always had a lot to do with making 
your service the worlds bestat the lowest possible cost.
"The close teamwork made possible by my being a part 
of the Bell System was never more important than today 
in helping to meet record demands for telephone service.
wMy name is Western Electric.Western Electric
A UNIT OF THE BELLSYSTEM SINCE 1882
That noise you hear coming 
from the Bowl every afternoon 
probably has some connection 
with Premo Pappafava. At 5 ft. 
7 in. ahd 165 pounds, this 21- 
year-old fullback who answers to 
the name of Pappy is one of the 
smallest yet most volatile mem
bers of the squad. Although Pappy 
is small in size, he more than 
makes up for this in competitive 
spirit.
Premo comes from Sewickley 
Township High School, where he 
played guard for three years be
ginning in 1941. Pappys versa
tility in athletics is shown by the 
fact that he also played guard on 
Sewickleys basketball team, 
played a line position on the West
moreland soccer team, and was 
catcher for the Sigma Nus cham
pionship softball team this sum
mer.
After entering the Air Corps as 
a cadet in 1944 Pappy was sent 
to Gettysburg College where he 
gained enough credits to enable 
him to enter Tech as a sophomore 
in 1946. Last fall he played left 
halfback for the Plaid, but was 
shifted to fullback this year be
cause of his hard running.
Competition on the gridiron has 
not stopped Pappy from entering 
other extracurricular activities. 
At one time or another he has 
been a member of the Math club, 
Managers club, A.S.Che.E., Intra
mural Board, Dorm council, and 
Sigma Nu fraternity. He has also 
disproved the old adage that foot
ball players do not get good 
grades. While playing on the 1946 
team he made a 3.57 factor despite 
the long hours devoted to football 
practice.
Since this is Pappys last year 
at Carnegie, he is determined, as 
is the entire squad, to give the 
Tartans a fighting and winning 
team.
Intramural Sports 
Get New Advisor
Touch Football Season Begins on October 20
The intramural athletic program 
has a new supervisor in the per
son of Mr. See. He replaces Coach 
Risedorph who left last year to 
join the Pittsburgh Bureau of Rec
reation. Mr. See has enough of an 
athletic background so that he 
should be right at home in his new 
assignment.
Following his graduation from 
Springfield college, where he ma
jored in physical education, he 
served for four and a half years 
in the Navy, much of his time be
ing spent in connection with the 
Navys athletic program.
Mr. See is interested in wrest
ling and would like to talk to any 
students who want to do wrest
ling. While the necessity of con
ditioning would seemingly rule 
out the possibility of wrestling as 
an intramural sport, it is possible 
that it could be revived as an in
tercollegiate activity if enough 
interest develops.
The first announcement from 
the intramural department is that 
touch football will begin on Mon
day, Oct. 20. All entries must be 
turned into Mr. Sees office by 4:30 
p. m., Oct. 15th. Three leagues of 
six teams each will be formed 
and the winners of each league 
will play for the school champion
ship in an elimination tourna
ment. ________
For the benefit of newcomers, 
the game played here is two hand 
touch, a type which usually leads 
to a rough and tumble style of 
play. Passing i? the chief offen
sive weapon of most of the teams 
although a running game is em
ployed to add deception. A team is 
given four chances to gain fifteen 
yards, and if successful is credit
ed with one point. A touchdown 
[Continued on page 8]
Athletic Office 
Asks Recruits
The following announcements 
have been released by the depart
ment of intercollegiate athletics: 
BASKETBALL 
Varsity basketball practice will 
begin on Wednesday, October 15, 
at 4:30 in the Mens Gymnasium. 
All students interested in try
ing out for the team or for man
ager are requested to report at 
that time.
CHEERLEADERS 
All students wishing to try out 
as cheer leaders are requested to 
report to Scotty Yurchison, head 
cheer leader in room 102, Gym
nasium, on Wednesday, October 
15, at 4:30 p. m.
MANAGERS 
Managers are wanted for the 
varsity football, soccer, cross
country, and basketball teams. All 
students wishing to try out for 
managers are requested to report 
to the Athletic office, room 102, 
Gymnasium, at once.
fourth contest of the season and 
should be in mid-season form. In 
their opener, they were defeated 
as Salem came from behind in 
the fourth quarter to hand them 
a 7-6 defeat. The following week 
they came back to trounce Glenville 20-0.
Wesleyan continued to win this 
past weekend by jumping on Mor
ris Harvey for another 20-0 vic
tory. The fact that the Bobcats 
have allowed only one touchdown 
to be scored against them in three 
games indiactes that they have a 
strong defense.
The West Virginians are led by 
coach C. B. Ross, an alumnus of 
Wesleyan, who uses the single 
wing with an unbalanced line. The
Carnegie Tech students at
tending the Tartans home foot
ball games this year will enter 
Forbes field through a different 
gate than was used last year. 
The student sections, 4, 5, 6, 
and 7, will remain unchanged.
Students will use gate 31, ad
jacent to the main gate on 
Bouquet street, instead of the 
Schenley park entrance. Stu
dent Registration receipts will 
again be the only admission re
quirement for regular students.
squad is a veteran aggregation, 
most of last seasons stars return
ing. Theirs is chiefly a running at
tack featuring speed and aggres
siveness rather than deception or 
brute force.
From all observations, the event 
shapes up as a rough afternoon 
for both teams as the Tartans are 
ready to upset Wesleyan for their 
first victory of the new season.
LINEUP
W. VA. WESLEYANTECH........ LE ...Cooper........ LT ...DeMusey........ LG ...Guttendorf
Windish
Wiseman........ RT ...Hoffman........ RE ...Armour
Heiland........ LH ...Warner........RH ...Wilson
Highberger
Homestead Works 
Has Open House
The Homestead Works of the 
Camegie-Illinois Steel Corpora
tion, in celebration of Pennsyl
vania week has declared an open 
house for Thursday, October 16. 
Two-hour tours have been design
ed to show visitors all phases of 
the operations of the gigantic 
plant. Trained guides will show 
visitors the forging, heat treating 
and machining department which 
will be open to public inspection 
for the first time.
Visitors must be at least twelve 
years old, and if under sixteen, 
they must be accompanied by an 
adult. Transportation to and from 
the plant must be supplied by the 
individual.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1947THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
Tech Sports Scope
PiKAs To Sponsor Pep Rally 
Friday Night In Tech Bowl
Tartans Practice For Opening Game Next Saturday
er
Expertly tailored by LIONDALE of fine oxford 
cloth . . . White, blue, tan, grey.
MANHATTAN White Button-Down4^ Spread
Sizes 14 to 16Vi $J 95
HARVEY'S MEN'S WEAR
1707 Murray Ave., Cor. Forbes Squirrel Hill 
Open Tues., Thurs., Sat. Eves.  Phone JA. 3500
#77 surveys in 29 countries confirm the Parker 51*s amazing popularity. At 
20 leading American universities, senior men and women voted Parker morewanted than the next three makes of pens combined.  This preference stems from 
the 51s distinctive stylingits incomparable performance. Precision-made, it 
starts on the instantglides with satin smoothness. And only the 51  is designed 
for satisfactory use with new Parker Superchromethe super-brilliant, super
permanent ink that dries as it writes !  Choice of points... smart colors. $12.50; 
$15.00. Pencils, $5.00; $7.50. Sets, $17.50 to $80.00. Parker V-S Pens, 
$8.75. Pencil's, $4.00. The Parker Pen Co., Janesville, Wis., and Toronto, Can.
Co/. IMT far Tb* Prkr Na AlSt
Possibility of Kiltie Band, Student Parade; 
Support of Fraternities, Rooters Needed
ITS NEW ...
Wide-Spread Button Down
Our plea in last weeks issue of the Tartan urging a rebirth of 
school spirit gives all the indications of having borne some fruit. Pi 
Kappa Alpha fraternity has taken +he lead in getting the ball rolling, 
and with some cooperation from the rest of the groups on campus and 
the student body as a-whole, it appears that our football team will 
have something more to spur it on than just a love for Dear Old 
Tech.
At present, this is the way that 
plans for Friday and Saturday 
preceding our first game this 
week-end stack up: On Friday 
night the team will be given a 
big send off with a bonfire in the 
Tech bowl. The PiKAs have 
gathered a big supply of wood 
and they will have it transported 
to the bowl where the festivities 
are due to get under way at 8:30. 
It is expected that Coach Donahoe and the rest of his staff will 
be on hand to say a few words. 
The cheer leaders will be there 
to promote some enthusiasm and, 
of course, the members of the 
team will be introduced so that 
the students will have a chance 
to get to know them.
On Saturday morning the team 
will rest before the game at the 
PiKA House, as is the custom. 
They will leave for Forbes field 
at 1 p.m., and if permission can 
be obtained from the Oakland 
police the Kiltie band will send 
the boys on their way with a 
bang by leading a parade of stu
dents down to the field. Mem
bers of the administration and 
various campus leaders have been
invited and although Dr. Doherty 
will not be able to attend, Dean 
Yon and Dean Dickinson have ac
cepted the invitation.
So there it is. The initiative has 
been taken and the plans have 
been laid. Not much more can 
be done than has already been ac
complished. The cooperation to 
make the whole thing a success 
must come from the students 
themselves.
Lets see all you fraternities 
get together and see that your 
members and pledges get out as a 
group. You all have a share in 
this thing too, in that you have 
members on the team who would 
certainly appreciate your support. 
It is probably a little more diffi
cult for the dorms to come out 
as a group so it will have to be 
each fellows responsibility to see 
that he gets himself there. And 
how about you commuters get
ting out? And of course a few 
bevys of fair damsels are needed 
to add the feminine touch to the 
occasion.
This is our chance to show the 
fellows playing ball that we are 
going to support them through a 
rough season. Lets not muff it.
5 Spread
More wanted than the
i- v next three makes combined

---------------------------------------------------

6THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBE R14, 1947
Says Who?
[Continued, from page 2] 
tery. This year 18 million families 
said they had to go into debt to 
meet living expenses and this 
doesnt include the families who 
had to fall back on war savings.
At present nothing can be done 
about high prices without a seri
ous dislocation. Senate investiga
tions coming two years too late 
serve no purpose but to make 
headlines. It is as ridiculous to 
reinstall OPA now as to try to 
remake a persons character. We 
must simply ride the crest of the 
flood and hope it doesnt turn into 
a tidal wave.
It is very puzzling to consider 
how a Congress which is genu
inely seeking to serve the people, 
could have abetted this fiasco of 
the first magnitude, especially 
when a majority of its constitu
ents had enough sense to see the 
straight-and-narrow of the prob
lem. Congress could undoubtedly 
have produced some workable 
compromise measure last year to 
obviate skyrocketing prices.
Canos 2nd Year
[Continued from page 1] 
tunity to try their craftsmanship, 
obtain competent criticism of it, 
improve their techniques on their 
own time, and finally to receive 
the encouragement of seeing their 
work in print.
Printing of the magazine is done 
in the Carnegie Tech department 
of printing, thus enabling its staff 
to maintain good production 
schedules and to learn something 
of the fundamentals of the print
ers arts. This arrangement also 
results in an excellent magazine 
as the staff is able to obtain the 
active assistance of the depart
ments faculty in layout, selection 
and use of types.
Contributions to Cano should be 
addressed to Features Editor, 
Cano, and inserted in the inter
school mail slot of the post office 
in the basement of Administration 
hall. Applicants for the staff are 
asked to write to the editor of 
Cano through the inter-school 
mail, giving their name, address, 
telephone number, interests, and 
previous publications and writing 
experience.
Former Student 
Makes Limelight
Eddie Safranski, former stu
dent of CIT, is in the limelight in 
a comparatively new musical 
field, as Stan Kentons bass play
er. Most swing enthusiasts are fa
miliar with his solos on Kentons 
records, such as Artistry Jumps 
and Painted Rhythm.
Safranskis break came when 
he was jamming at Musicians 
Union. Some of Glenn Millers 
boys were in town trying to form 
their own outfit and asked Eddie 
to team up. Later, with Hal Mc
Intyre he developed his own tech
nique that made him one of the 
masters in the jazz world.
In the Smoky City, he played 
in string quartets and the all-city 
high-school orchestra, and after 
taking a music major at Carnegie 
he went on to band and arranging 
roles.
He will be the subject of a half 
page feature in the October 28th 
issue of LOOK.
Chemistry Club 
Picks Officers
Holding its organizational meet
ing at the chemistry seminar in 
Engineering hall at 1:30 p. m., 
Thursday, October 9, the Chemis
try club elected Marvin Gustavson 
president.
Marvin is a senior in the chem
istry department, editor of Cano, 
and a member of Student Council.
Harry Dryer was elected vicepresident and Raymond Novak 
secretary-treasurer. Two committes, program and social, were
also set up although their chair
men are yet to be selected.
The club will hold its first so
cial meeting in the form of a 
Halloween party on the evening 
of October 31 in the Carnegie 
Union. Its first technical meet
ing will be in November, with 
details on both of the affairs to be 
given on the departmental bul
letin board.
Reactivated last year by mem
bers of the chemistry faculty, the 
club is now inviting all freshmen 
and sophomores to attend its first 
social function of the year in or
der that they may meet the upper
classmen and faculty members of 
the department.
3 Hour Dry Cleaning
Raincoats Showerproofed
Quick Laundry Service
CAMPUS CLEANERS
4609 Forbes St. MUseum 1288
Open daily * * 
from 8:15 a. m., 
until 8:30 p. m. 
through Oct. 22
3811 Fifth Avenue
Limited Quantity Available
LOG LOG SLIDE RULES WITH CASE
t * .Jfc., .
* DRAFTING SETS AND SUPPLIES
We welcome special orders for any individual book. Try us 
for that hard to get text book.
? ? ?
STUDENT BOOK EXCHANGE
(Past corner Bouquet and Fifth)
/Wore people* are Wg Ctyl&Sih* ewr before, II
Th e platter that's causing plenty of chatter 
in juke circles is "Skitch Hendersons latest 
instrumental"Dancing With a Deb. Boy 
what a record!
Its obvious "Skitch has had plenty 
of experience in tickling those ivories, 
and he follows that experience rule in 
smoking too. "I smoked many different 
brands and compared, says "Skitch. 
"My choice from experience is 
Camel.
Try Camels. Compare. Let your 
own experience tell you why more 
people are smoking Camels than 
ever before I
"Skitch" Henderson's Newest Disc for Capitol
"Skitch and some of 
his side-men looking 
over an arrangement of 
"Dancing With a Deb.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1947THE CARNEGIE TARTAN____________________________________L7
Three students from South 
America, the first to be awarded 
graduate fellowships at Carnegie 
Tech by the Matthes Foundation, 
have arrived on the campus. They 
are Miss Sonny Jiminez from Me
dellin, Columbia, Jose R. Escluse 
of Caracas, Venezuela, and En
rique Palao of Lima, Peru.
The Misses Jimenez and Ecclusa 
will study in the department of civ
il engineering and Palao in mech
anical engineering. All three are 
graduates of South American in
stitutions of higher learning and 
will pursue advanced studies at 
Carnegie for one year under grants 
of $1000. Miss Esclusa also holds 
the Bachelor of Science degree in 
civil engineering from Cornell 
university.
The Matthes Foundation, Inc., 
of New York, was established in 
1946 by Albert J. Matthes, 1917 
graduate of Carnegie Tech. Mr. 
Matthes served in World War I 
and then entered the machinery 
business. He organized the Ma
chinery Liquidating Company in 
1923 and has business connections 
all over the world, especially in 
Latin America. The purpose of the 
Foundation which bears his name 
is to strengthen the bonds of 
friendship and cooperation be
tween the peoples of the Western 
hemisphere by means of the edu
cational process.
The three winners of the first 
Matthes Fellowship grants were 
chosen by competitive examina
tion.
Students Discuss 
United Nations
Al Checco Appears 
In New York Play
Al Checco, who graduated from 
Carnegies Drama School last year, 
recently appeared in Music at 
Night at the National Theater 
Conference Tryout Studio in New 
York City. The studio gives young 
actors an opportunity to be seen 
by those who can help them to 
employment and the best use of 
their talents in the theater world.
Checco is well remembered for 
his many roles while a student 
here. This pnst summer he appear
ed in a musical revue in Cohasset, 
Massachusetts.
EXPERT REPAIRS
RADIOS, PHONOGRAPHS, APPLIANCES
Sales and Service
LEWIS RADIO 
ELECTRIC CO.
1123 OAKLAND AVE. MA. 4211
Bring Your Radio Problems 
To Us
22 YEARS EXPERIENCE
At Your Service
RODGER'S
DAIRY
Try our
HAMBURGERS
Made with 100% pure beef 
U. S. Government inspected
LARGE MILK SHAKES
Made with pure whole 
milk
RODGER'S
Dairy Stores
3905 FORBES STREET 
Near Boquet
4619 CENTER AVENUE 
Near Craig
5414 WALNUT STREET 
Shadyside
Other stores downtown
Four Carnegie Tech students 
led by Dr. Harold Bierck discuss
ed Can the U. N. Prevent War 
on the Columbia School of the 
Air program Opinions Please. 
The broadcast was aired on Octo
ber 10 at five oclock over WJAS.
Shirley Seiner, MMCC junior, 
started the discussion with a sum
mary of the provisions in the 
United Nations Charter for settling 
disputes. David Archer, senior 
chemical engineer, then discussed 
the use that had been made of 
these provisions, citing Iran as an 
example.
Doris Moore, MMCC, junior, 
brought up the topic of the veto 
and national sovereignty. In the 
discussion that followed Jack 
Ewart, senior chemical engineer, 
declared that the United States 
must give up some of its sov
ereignty in order to maintain 
world peace.
MAFALDA GANGONE
There is a tingle gone this week 
from the cash register in Skibo. 
The reasonjust that last Friday 
Mafalda Gangone left for a new 
job in Mt. Vernon, N. Y.
Grinning, wisecracking Mafal
da has been hitting the NO SALE 
sign since the fall of 1943 and has 
become as much a Skibo tradition 
as the 10c ice cream cone. Muffy 
as she was affectionately called by 
all those who hoped for cut-rates, 
hails from Carnegie, Pa., and is 
the mother of a nine year old girl.
WCIT has announced the ap
pearance of several new shows as 
its one hour schedule is expanded 
to four and one-half hours.
One of these programs, Variety 
Club, will be different from any
thing previously heard on WCIT. 
It will be broadcast every after
noon from 4:45 to 5:45.
Behind the show are its direct
or Stu Russell, a Canadian with 
considerable experience in radio 
variety work, and Mike Bodnar, 
an old WCIT man who originated 
and is producing the show. Its 
purpose is to give commuters and 
other students who have little or 
no free evening time an oppor
tunity to hear WCIT and to work 
for the station.
This week the show is to con
sist of dance music brought to you 
from The Mythical Moonlit Pier 
Overlooking Beautiful Schenley 
Park. Each evening a different 
band will play on this program 
which is described as something
new and different in juke box 
shows.
The variety portion of the show 
will be expanded during the fol
lowing weeks, probably at the rate 
of fifteen minutes per week, until 
the program attains a length of 
five hours.
The Morning Clambake returns 
to the air this week from 7:00 to 
9:30 Monday through Friday. Ed 
Von Halle, MCs the first half of 
the show on Tuesday and Thurs
day, while some of the PiKAs 
take over the same chore on the 
other three days. The latter half 
of the program will be handled 
throughout the week by the Betas.
Evening broadcasts beginning 
next week will feature the Jazz 
Band Ball by Bill Meister. De
mand Performance, The Campus 
Roundtable, and Jay Marattas 
Jazz Combo. Until then WCIT 
will be on the air with music and 
news every night at 7:00 p.m.
we,
My
lou probably know a number of men in your 
class who were pilots in the wartime Air Force. 
They are the best advertisements for the Aviation 
Cadet program. Talk with them about it.
Chances are, theyll tell you their service as 
pilots was one of the most interesting and exciting 
phases of their lives. Fast action, comradeship, 
and the chance to serve their country paid them 
dividends they dont forget . . . added something 
to their stature and poise that they couldnt have 
gotten anywhere else.
Cadet life today is no different. As a potential 
pilot in the new U. S. Air Force, you serve at a time 
of equal importance to the nation. Freedom, 
r^anonaihility, the chance to use your own initiative 
are all urs.
The training you get is the finest your govern
ment can provide  $35,000 worth for every Cadet.
Youre taught by skilled instructors, fly the best 
airplanes. Your living facilities are excellent.
Learning to fly today opens profitable fields to 
you in aviation  which is expanding more rapidly 
than at any other time in history.
Pilot training is open, now, to single men, 20 to 
2QI/2 years old, who have completed at least onehalf the credits for a degree from an accredited 
college or university  or pass an equivalent ex
amination. Cadets completing the course will be 
commissioned Second Lieutenants, ORC, and as
signed to active duty as pilots with the Air Force. 
During their tours of duty they will be given a 
chance to qualify for Regular Air Force Commis
sions. This is your opportunity! Look into it today 
at your nea . Army and Air Force Recruit
ing Station.
U. S. ARMY AND AIR FORCE RECRUITING SERVICE
Matthes Program Inaugurated 
By South American Students
Cashier RetiresWCIT Announces New Shows 
As Air Time Is Increased

---------------------------------------------------

8THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1947
Speaking before a sizeable crowd 
at the Frick auditorium on Thackery and Fifth avenues on Tuesday 
evening, October 7, Cord Meyer 
outlined the tenets of the United 
World Federalists organization of 
which he is national president.
The United World Federalists, 
stated Mr. Meyer, favor a United 
Nations with limited powers which 
will still be sufficient to prevent 
a major war.
Each countrys armaments 
would be restricted to the ma
terial needed to maintain internal 
order. An international army, 
navy, and air force would take 
care of all external policing. In 
order to accomplish these aims, 
the UWF proposes that the char
ter of the UN be amended to give 
it the needed power. The speaker
Intramural
[Continued, from page 4]
is worth five points.
Last fall the Tau Delts, Delts 
and TXs came out on top of 
their respective leagues and are 
again expected to be the teams to 
beat. In the dog-fight to deter
mine the school championship, 
the Tau Delts emerged the victor 
but then lost a heart-breaker to 
the Pitt champions, 7-6.
[Continued from page I] 
students.
The Scottieman went on to 
compliment the summer staff for 
its many hours of planning and 
laboring and to condemn the ad
ministration mainly because 
there is a definite lack of_ student 
interest, particularly among the 
upper classes.
The present Scottie staff, gross
ly undermanned, is in need of 
such diverse items as creative 
writers and advertising salesmen. 
They are urged by the publicity 
manager to report to staff meet
ings which are held every Tuesday 
at 4:30 in the Scottie office on the 
third floor of the Carnegie Union.
All those attending are guaran
teed an opportunity to aid in 
the production of the finest Scot
tie CIT has ever known.
Series Opens
The Pittsburgh New Friends of 
Music will open their season se
ries at the Foster Memorial Hall 
with a concert by the Griller 
String Quartet on Wednesday 
evening, October 15. The program 
will consist of QuartetWilliam 
Walton, and Quartet, the Seven 
Last Words, Op. 51Haydn.
Let's go to
ISALY'S
Milk Shakes 
Big Ice (ream Cones 
Klondikes 
Tasty Lunches
Three Store in the College 
District
6808 Firta Strut Suirrtl Hill 
Ftrfccs Strict. Oaklaal 
M*n Plant: 
io Biilmrl 9t the Allies
"ALL MY FRIENDS 
KNOW CHESTERFIELD 
IS MY BRAND
STAR OF COLUMBIA'S 
TECHNICOLOR PRODUCTION
DOWN TO EARTH
M. A LWAYS Vi 11,1) F15 
B BETTER TASTING m COOLER SMOKINGSMO.
THEY 
^ SATISFY
Gopyrifix 1947. udetnn ft Mrau sWlWWW Cd
UWF President 
Speaks On Aims
was introduced by Dr. Robert D. 
Gregg, professor of history at 
Carnegie Tech.
Chapters of the Federalists are
being organized on the CIT and 
PCW campuses. Jack Ewart, pres
ident of the CIT chapter, and 
Marvin Gustavson can be con
tacted by those students wishing 
to become members.
Included in th estimated 250 
people who attended the Frick
auditorium meeting Wei* mny 
prominent religious, politicai, and 
educational officials and leaders 
bf the city.
