Camnegie Tartan
VOL. 42No. 14CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 19, 1949
W. L. Mellon Foundation Makes 
Grant of $6,000,000 to Carnegie
Camnegi Tiretgan ji.nL juaerrc 
kytru Srugyge.tgan My srF.igty
Wgiry CancrmnL jmbige.tganL Cammgttrr kL
Tntguriy WauthirLL; kLkL Fau RrauF.ngz.tgan
By Brut Kgmmri
Recovering from the frustrating illegality of their previous 
weeks action, Student Council moved into high gear last week and 
showed that it wasnt incapable of taking responsible action.
Stan Siegel and Arbon Lang still nervously watched the hatch
ing of their election egg, which*
has now presumably been purified 
of all taints. Publications chair
man Lee Wiley introduced Barry 
Evans, who submitted the Scottie staffs resignation, following 
which Wiley proposed a board to 
supervise the Scottie reorganiza
tion.
In addition the Council set up a 
committee under Gerry Meyers 
to correlate the Constitution and 
by-laws and heard a report on 
Homecoming 1948 which prompt
ed it to recommend that the same 
plan be followed in the future.
Tntguriy WauthirLL
Condemning the publications 
committee as entirely worthless 
because of its structure, Wiley 
asked Council to establish a com
mittee to investigate and reorgan
ize the publications committee.
He pointed out that the Scot
tie crisis was just one of many 
difficult situations the committee 
was unable to cope with because 
of its peculiar and inefficient or
ganization.
Councilman Wileys request for 
a reorganization of the publica
tions committee followed Scottie
It Couldnt Happen 
Here-But It Did!
St.n SgrFrikuban s.nF
Stmcrnt Camnegi mrmbruL Lt.u
rc gn cgLbrigry .t i.Lt wrrkL 
Camnegi mrrtgnF .L Sgirnt St.n 
SgrFri .nc keemu.tr kuban 
s.nF bre.mr aic ehmmL yau . yrw 
mgnmtrL.
It LrrmL th.t St.n Lhawrc mp 
yau thr mrrtgnF wgthamt . tgr, 
h.vgnF yauFattrn th.t thr ayygeg.i 
Camnegi pgetmur yau thr ThgLtir 
w.L ta br t.krn th.t .ytrunaan. In 
Fi.negnF .uamnc thr uaam yau . 
L.tgLy.etauy eu.v.t, y.mitirLLiy 
curLLrc kubanL nr.t yami.uc 
e.mFht hgL ryr.
St.nL urqmrLt yau gtL mLr 
buamFht . thamFhtymi, I jmLt cant 
knaw. Bmt s.nF, eampirtriy 
Fu.egamL, m.cr thr eantugbmtgan 
.nc rvrn ayyrurc ta tgr gt .uamnc 
SgrFriL nrek. ThgL ayyru w.L cr
eignrc wgth th.nkL.
S.gc SgrFri i.tru, kuban w.L 
vruy nger .bamt thr whair thgnF. 
Bmt thgL wgii Fa na ymuthru. I wr.u 
na m.nL eaii.u.
editor Evans reading of the resig
nation of the Scottie staff. Evans, 
evidently not used to the lime
light, stated that the staff could 
not work shackled by personal 
bias.
Na Rrmrcy
In asking for the reorganization, 
Wiley pointed out that at the pres
ent time any dispute among the 
publications drags along until it 
blows up instead of being rem
edied. He reviewed the present 
organization of the committee and 
suggested a new set up of a small 
committee from Council for each 
publication.
The committee to investigate 
the trouble will also have as its 
duty the job of organizing a new 
Scottie staff for next year. Coun
cil decided that there would be 
[Continued on page 3]
To Establish New School Of 
Industrial Administration
Will Be Nations First Graduate 
School in Field; CIT Leadership Noted
A gift of approximately six million dollars has been re
ceived by Carnegie Tech from the Mellon Foundation for the 
establishment of the nations first graduate school of industrial 
administration. At least one million dollars of the grant will 
be used to erect a building to house the new school and the 
remainder will become its endowment.
To be named the School of Industrial Administration, William 
Larimer Mellon, Founder, the school will probably be established 
within a year, according to President Doherty, who made the an
nouncement of the gift on Monday morning, January 17. However, 
until the new building is completed, probably within two years, 
thr School will be housed in existing buildings.
keeaucgnF ta thr .nnamnermrnt,* 
thr nrw Sehaai wgii ayyru . thurrWgiig.m s.ugmru Mriian, whaLr 
Fgyr ay $6,000,000 h.L m.cr paLLg
bir thr rLt.bigLhmrnt ay .n rn
tguriy nrw Lehaai.
Scotch And Soda Auditions 
Draw Talent From All Colleges
Scotch and Soda auditions dancers yau new show. Fuam iryt ta 
right, Anne Pearson, Pat Dittler, Mara Muller, Carol Roden, .nc 
(seated) Jackie Sloan.
* * *
Scotch and Soda tryouts were never so crowded as they were 
last Saturday when almost 350 engineers, Maggie Murphs, and Fine 
Arts students appeared for singing, dancing, and dramatic tryouts.
Surprisingly enough, drama students did not appear to be domi
nating the scene. They were out-* 
numbered by the non-profes
sionals in the singing tryouts, 
and all departments were likewise 
represented in the other tryouts.
For those who were trying out 
for all three sections the task of 
going from one tryout to another 
was simplified by all three being 
combined in the Fine Arts build
ing. In spite of the difficulty of 
the job and the confusion, the 
work that had to be done was ac
complished by 5:30 p. m. Actual 
casting will be completed during 
the first week of next semester.
This turn out, several times
larger than that of any other year, 
demonstrated the student interest 
in the production of this years 
musical, the fantasy based on the 
superhuman Molecule Man.
Balcomb Green Chosen 
As Man of Year99
Balcomb Greene, assistant pro
fessor in the department of paint
ing and design, has been chosen 
Man of the Year by the Arts 
and Crafts center. His paintings 
will be on display at the center 
from January 22 to February 13.
yr.u puaFu.m gneimcgnF anr yr.u 
ay Fu.cm.tr wauk ir.cgnF ta . 
M.Ltru ay Segrner gn IncmLtug.i 
kcmgngLtu.tgan.
The present department of in
dustrial administration will be 
transferred to the new School. 
Students currently enrolled in this 
curriculum may continue without 
change toward the bachelors de
gree from the College of Engineer
ing, or, if they qualify and wish 
to, may transfer at the proper time 
to the new School.
k CIT TumLtrr 
The William Larimer and May 
T. Mellon Foundation was estab
lished in 1939 by William Larimer 
Mellon as a trust exclusively for 
religious, charitable, scientific, lit
erary, and educational purposes.
Mr. Mellon, nephew of the late 
Andrew W. Mellon, was one of 
the founders of the Gulf Oil cor
poration and its active head for 
the past 46 years, retiring last 
year as Chairman of the Board. 
He has been a trustee of Carnegie 
Tech for 12 years.
Dambiy Gu.tgygrc 
S.gc jurLgcrnt Dahruty mpan 
urergpt ay thr Fgyt, Wr ay CIT 
Fur.tiy .ppureg.tr thr .etgan ay 
Mu. Mriian .nc thr TumLtrrL ay 
thr Famnc.tgan gn puavgcgnF mL 
wgth thr ymncL ta rLt.bigLh thgL 
Lehaai. knc wr .ur cambiy Fu.t
gygrc by thr Fgyt bre.mLr, gn .c
cgtgan ta rLt.bigLhgnF thr nrw 
Lehaai, gt wgii hrip gn . i.uFr w.y 
ta eantgnmr .nc rxp.nc amu pua
Fu.m ay puayrLLgan.i rcme.tgan. 
One of the distinguishing fea
tures of the School will be the 
high degree of selection of its stu
dents. The announcement stated 
that the School will select for 
admission outstanding college 
graduates or other students who, 
in at least two years of college 
have demonstrated superior quali
fications for its work!
B.Lge juaFu.m 
When completely organized, the 
over-all C.I.T. educational plan in 
the industrial field will include a 
basic freshman and sophomore 
program given outside of the new 
School. At the end of this period, 
according to present plans, stu
dents may continue undergraduate 
work stressing industrial engi
neering and earn a bachelors de
gree in the College of Engineering 
and Science, or may apply for 
admission to the School for the 
three-year program in industrial 
administration leading to the mas
ters degree.
Enlarging on the purpose of the 
new School, President Doherty 
stated that it will fill a great na
tional need for administrators 
whose business training is 
strengthened by the capacity to 
understand technological elements 
of financial, personnel and admin
istrative questions.
The strong need for such men, 
Dr. Doherty explained, is clearly 
illustrated by the fact that well 
over 50 per cent of technical en
gineering graduates, after 40 years 
of age, are found in positions of 
administrative responsibility in in
dustry.
Mppautmngty ta R.tr InLtumetauL 
Myyrurc TnFgnrruL ThgL Wrrk
Faculty rating sheets will be distributed in all departments 
of the College of Engineering this week, John Grace, student chair
man of the Student-Faculty Liaison committee, has reported. Di
rector Webster N. Jones has had 8,000 copies of the rating sheets 
printed, the number available*
last spring being quite inade
quate.
Explaining the use of the rat
ing sheets, Grace said, The stu
dent rates his instructor on each 
of thirteen basic teaching quali
ties on a scale ranging from su
perior to very poor.
Since the rating sheets are de
signed primarily for the benefit 
of the instructors, the students 
can do them a real service by
providing as much information as | load.
they are able, he added. No in
structor uses the rating sheets un
less he wishes to, and then uses 
the results only for his own in
formation.
At the Liaison committee meet
ing held last week, the student 
members discussed with Dr. Jones 
and Dr. Teare the problems of 
cheating on papers, problems, and 
examinations, and that of sched
uling the freshman courses to ob
tain an equitable, bearable work

---------------------------------------------------

C.unrFgr T .u t.n
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes St., Pittsburgh, Pa. 
TELEPHONE: SC. 4557; after hours MU. 5365, SC. 8951. Published weekly during the school year, except holidays 
and examination periods, by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Editor-in-Chief ............................................. Robert W. JohnsonBusiness Manager ................................................. Samuel Moses
Associate Editor ............................................ Burton L. EpsteinPersonnel Manager .................................. Richard B. Mitchell
News EditorRobert Kubiak, Sports EditorPaul Offer- mann, Makeup EditorRalph Painter, Art EditorRussell F. Kulberg, Features EditorFrank Roth, Advertising ManagerArthur G. Zuch, Circulation ManagerLewis S. Sternberg.
Copy EditorPat Petrick, Headline EditorMyra-Jane Barry, Proof EditorJohn Braun, Asst. Business Manager Herbert Stone, Asst. Advertising ManagerMalcolm B. Samakow, Chief ReportersJohn K. Fockler, William Johns, Bennard Perlman, Catherine Rudy, Frances Ham- borsky, Chief Sports ReporterBill Dorn, Chief PhotographerWilliam D. Benswanger.Copy StaffJohn Bornman, Charles Rainsalo, Mary Cauf- field, Robert Cloud, Analee Gelman, Jane Lawton, Elizabeth Asche, Features StaffA. Starke Drischell, Gene Feist, Jack Johnson, Makeup Staff-Al Bader.Senior ReporterBert Kimmel.Photography StaffRichard Deininger.ReportersJo Crisanti, Angela Pollis, Cub ReportersSally Bachman, Judy Block, Alan Blotcky, Hilda Chottiner, Jane Conner, Joyce Ertell, Dorothy Karns, Edward Koos, Shirley Levin, William Lyell, Sue MacFadden, Bee Potter, Jane Robb, Nancy Sitler, Michael Stavish, Anita Tabellini, Joann Williams,' Nancy Will, Joan Blumenthal, Susan Flood, Laura Ehni.Sports StaffRobert Dougherty, Charles King, Warren 
Lithgow, Frederick Lunt, Art Mensing, Gerry Conlon, John Roslund.Business StaffMorty Baker, Edmund Denburg, Shirlee 
Goldenfeld, Marjorie Weinsweig, Bud Smith, Bob Powers, Mitch Bakon.TypistsPatti McDermott, Wilma Dickson, Rodda Dean.
Represented for national advertising by NATIONAL AD
VERTISING, Inc., College Publishers Representative, 420 Madison Ave., New York City. Subscription SI.10 per year.
Entered as second class matter on Oct. 4, 1907 at the Post Office at Pittsburgh, Pa., under the Act of March 3, 
1879. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in the Act of February 28, 1925. Authorized Octo
ber 21, 1918.
Editorials
Another Step
The tremendous tribute which has come to 
Carnegie through the Mellon Foundations grant 
cannot be overemphasized. The leadership which 
has been evidenced in the Carnegie Plan of edu
cation is again shown in the development of such 
an undertaking as the new School of Industrial 
Administration. It is a move of which the entire 
student body may well be happy and proud.
Draft Him!
We have been questioned about our announce
ment of last week concerning the Tartans print
ing Student Council candidates platforms or poli
cies and our invitation to them to visit us in 
person if they so desire.
Apparently there are those who fear or wish 
to believe that we will use such information and 
impressions to slander, misuse, insult and other
wise use every means at our disposal to de
feat those candidates whom we, in our insidious 
biased way, might diabolically scheme to crush.
May we set those fretful minds at rest. We 
would like to become acquainted with the stu
dents who are running for Student Council, since 
we do make an attempt to keep reasonably well 
acquainted with what occurs in Council.
If the candidates wish to distrust our honesty 
or ability to make recommendations we will re
spect their freedom to do so and to make any sug
gestions they might wish. Our desire is merely 
to get to know as many candidates as possible, 
endorsing those whom we feel are really needed 
on Council.
It might be considered quite presumptive if 
we were to flatly state that certain candidates 
were not worthy of votes, and then present our
personal adverse opinions of them. That is not
our intention. If some candidates show them
selves, in our opinion, to be outstanding pros
pects for Council, regardless of whether they 
visit us, we feel that it is part of our duty to
recommend their election, not that we are un
aware of the relative impotence of editorial com
ment.
As a start we would like to recommend Arbon 
Lang, who has been leading the Dormicom ma
chine for the past several weeks. Although we 
feel that Lang can be compared to the man 
who got so interested in the car he was driv
ing that he forgot to make sure he was on the 
right road, he can certainly be trusted to throw 
himself into Council activities with the same de
termination and vigor he has shown already in 
Council affairs.
His election would certainly be a remunera- * 
tive one. Yet we feel that if he persists in his 
present attitude (which we hope he will change) 
of sniping from the sidelines without taking on 
the responsibility of being a member of Coun
cil, he will have earned the label of merely a 
political tactician whose energies are not sincere
ly devoted to serving the student body.
Dormicom should not allow a man with Lang's 
qualities to avoid responsibilities he has shown 
he Is able to handle. The members of Dormicom 
owe it to themselves as well as to the rest of the 
student body to prevail upon Lang to run for 
Council.
mm
THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 19, 1949
Welcome Brother !Trehnge.i Ta 
Rrw.uc BrLt 
Stmcrnt kutgeir
Undergraduate technical writ
ers should be encouraged.
Working on that thesis the C.u
negie Technical is sponsoring . 
contest for the best technical .u
ticle submitted during the school 
year 1948-49. The prize-winning 
article will be awarded . $50 
prize.
Furnishing half of the cash 
award is the Engineers Society of 
Western Pennsylvania, whose 
purpose is to stimulate profes
sional interest among student en
gineers. The remainder of the 
award is furnished by the publi
cation itself.
All registered undergraduate 
Carnegie students are eligible. 
Articles 2,000 to 3,000 words in 
length, plus all pertinent photos 
or illustrations, based on original 
research, experience in employ
ment, or library research, will be 
acceptable.
To be considered, articles must 
be received by the Technical be
fore April 2, 1949, in double
spaced typewritten form. Judges 
will be the executive board of the 
Technical and selected faculty 
members. Their decision will be 
final.
Mn St.Fr
__________________By Gene Feist__________________
There has long been evident a need for a 
post-war play dealing With the lives of veterans 
attempting to readjust themselves to life in Amer
icas urban slums. The problems that confront 
the author of such a play range from the hous
ing shortage and economic insecurity to the quest 
for spiritual values and emotional stability.
Nameless Wonder
Corner of God, by Louis Adelman, is the 
story of Pete and a street corner in Brooklyn. 
The street corner represents Petes nationalism; 
his idea of home, country, friendship, and loyalty. 
Throughout Petes boyhood the corner was the 
focal spot of his activities. Here he met his 
friends, exchanged ideas, and waited. On the 
corner Pete and his gang waited for life and 
reality to reach out and touch them. They al
ways sought a nameless wonder that was to make 
their lives significant and important.
When Pete married Goldie he was prepared 
to transfer his concern for the corner to his 
own home. Due to the housing shortage Pete 
and Goldie were forced to live with her par
ents. Pete wanted to breathe, to live with his 
wife, unobserved and uncriticized by her family. 
Lack of privacy drove him back to the cor
ner and increased his frustration.
Frustration is the force that cements the gang 
together; they share the same fears and anxie
ties. Pete becomes involved with a gambling rack
et when desperation drives him to seek more 
money than he earns. The gangsters who are 
cheated by the scheme of Ryan, Petes friend, kill 
Larry Bergen, in revenge. The killer, Bull, mis
takes Larry for Pete and beats him to death. 
The death of Larry, reuniting Pete and Goldie, 
is a symbol of the futility of protesting against 
existing circumstances.
Pete and Goldie leave the corner prepared 
to adjust themselves to an environment to which 
both they and the audience object. The gang ac
cepts its fate without making an attempt to rebel 
against, or question the forces that shape it. 
The play ends on this negative note with most 
of the vital issues remaining unanswered.
Energetic Theatre
Mr. Adelman is familiar with the background 
of his play. His sensitive perception of people 
enables him to create vivid portraits of charac
ters who come to life on the Carnegie stage. The 
dialogue is energetic, capturing the idiom and 
spirit of Brooklyn prototypes.
The direction of Talbot Pearson molds the 
play into a rapid moving panorama of Williamsburgh life.
John Dreiers stage setting is an outstanding 
contribution to the play. The set, which was 
brillianty executed by the production crews, 
served as an active comment on the action.
Corner of God introduces to Pittsburgh au
diences a playwright of potential significance and 
promise. Mr. Adelman has the imagination and 
theatrical sensibilities needed for a new and 
growing American theatre.
Your
Moneys
Worth
W.LM.Le lon FudLaM . p.ut ay yamu savings 
gn thr trirphanr bmLgnrLL (.L hundreds of 
thamL.ncL ay rvruyc.y prapir ca) or whether 
yam p.y . hgii yau trirphanr Lruvger (as more 
hmncurcL ay thamL.ncL ay prapir do), you 
rxpret yamu manryL wauth.
It gL mp ta mL ta Lrr th.t yam Frt gt ... ta Lrr 
th.t thr caii.uL whgeh yam gnvrLt (thr caii.uL 
whgeh build amu bmLgnrLL) .ur krpt Lremur .nc 
r.un . y.gu urtmun; ta Lrr th.t thr caii.uL whgeh 
yam p.y yau trirphanr Lruvger (thr caii.uL 
whgeh run amu bmLgnrLL) eantgnmr ta bmy thr 
brLt paLLgbir trirphanr Lruvger.
W.L MLee WLeLl.onL Fouldna 
ot lLnniaekdnsd

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 19, 1949THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
Letter to the Editor
Scottie Review Board Defends 
Itself Against Editors Attack
Seattgr urvgrw ba.uc, iryt ta ugFht, Jahn Faekiru, Tthri Fugrcm.n, 
.nc T. J. H.ii, ur.c thr urm.ukL by Seattgr rcgtau B.uuy Tv.nL gn 
i.Lt wrrkL T.ut.n. Thrgu urpiy gL briaw.
Editor, The Tartan:
In regard to the statement by the Scottie editor as quoted in 
last weeks Tartan, we, the Student Council Scottie Review Board, 
feel that the student body should be aware of our position.
The editor states that the mag-^ 
azine was unable to continue 
publication because of restrictions 
and limitations placed upon it by 
the board, which does not have 
a mature enough outlook.
If a mature outlook condones the 
printing of such obscene and por
nographic literature as was sub
mitted to us for review, then we 
revel in our innocent immaturity 
and want no part of such adult
hood.
Shamic br Cirvru
Further, in response to the ac
cusation that we do not under
stand the purpose of a humor 
magazine, we would like to ex
press what we feel the standards 
of such a magazine should be. A 
humor magazine should contain 
clever and subtle humor which 
is not necessarily crude, vulgar, 
or risque. We feel that the Car
negie campus in the past months 
has provided ample subject mat
ter for satirical and humorous ar
ticles.
Na Txrutgan
In past years, the Scottie has 
contained enough well-written 
and interesting material to con
vince us that it is possible to ob
tain such articles in sufficient 
quantity to produce a humor mag
azine of which the campus can be 
proud.
But apparently the late Scottie 
staff has not exerted the slight ef
fort necessary to obtain this type 
of material. The publishing of 
such material as has appeared in 
this years Scottie is definitely 
underestimating and insulting the 
intelligence of the student body.
We of the committee .iLa feel 
a need for a college humor mag
azine on the campus, and feel that 
its appearance would be of def
inite benefit to the students. We 
do not feel that the Scottie of this 
year has fulfilled this need; and 
we do feel therefore, that its de
mise until a reasonably adequate 
publication can be brought forth 
is probably the best solution to 
the situation.
UnjmLtgygrc
For these reasons, therefore, we, 
as members of a committee ap
pointed at the request of the edi
tor, and following the directives 
set before us, feel that the crit
icisms of our actions are unjusti
fied. The discontinuation of the 
Scottie was brought about by a 
situation in which we were not the 
controlling factor, but rather the 
agency set up, with predetermin
ed instructions, to carry out the 
decision of Student Council.
Respectfully,
Student Council Scottie 
Review Board,
Jahn K. Faekiru 
Tham.L J. H.ii 
j. U Tthri Fugrcm.n
Election Notice
ThgL natger wgii eanygum thr 
riretganL natger ay i.Lt wrrk 
whgeh w.L Lt.trc .L brgnF Lmb
jret ta (1) .ppuav.i ay Stmcrnt 
Camnegi .nc (2) .ppuav.i by 
thr Txremtgvr Ba.uc ay thr ur
vgLrc CanLtgtmtgan. ThrLr .p
puav.iL h.vr brrn Fu.ntrc.
jrtgtganL wgii br cmr gn thr 
Dr.n ay MrnL ayyger an au br
yaur Frbum.uy 18 .t 11:15 .. m. 
Thr riretgan wgii br hric an 
Frbum.uy 25 yuam 11:15 .. m. 
ta 1:45 p. m.
Thr yaiiawgnF urpurLrnt.
tgvrL .ur ta br riretrc: TnFg
nrrugnF, Lrvrn; M.uF.urt Mau
ugLan, thurr; Fgnr kutL, yamu. In 
.ccgtgan anr Lpreg.i urpurLrn
t.tgvrL gL ta br riretrc yuam Tn
FgnrrugnF yau anr LrmrLtru .nc 
anr nan-vatgnF .LLgLt.nt Lreur
t.uy gL ta br riretrc yuam thr 
jmngau ei.LL gn thr Lreurt.ug.i 
crp.utmrnt.
C.ncgc.tr mmLt br .t ir.Lt 
Lreanc LrmrLtru yurLhmrn. 
Twrnty-ygvr LgFn.tmurL ay mn
cruFu.cm.tr c.y LtmcrntL gn 
thr eaiirFr ay thr e.ncgc.tr .ur 
urqmgurc an .ii prtgtganL rx
erpt thaLr yau .LLgLt.nt Lreur-. 
t.uy, whgeh m.y gneimcr LgFn.-g 
tmurL yuam .ii eaiirFrL.
St.n SgrFri, Tiretgan Ch.gum.n I
SgnFir Kry kw.uc IL 
B.LgL My Nrw SyLtrm
Students May Qualify For New 
Honor In Three Different Ways
On the basis of the new key award system drawn up by Stu
dent Council, only one key, an entirely new design, will be awarded 
to a qualifying student while he is an undergraduate at CIT.
This one key will serve as the only award for all activities regu~ lated by Student Council. AllBernstein 
Plays, Speaks
IZF Sponsors Meeting 
For College Students
Seattgr RrLgFn.tganL H.Ltrn 
ji.n Fau SmpruvgLauy Ba.ucL
Wgiry Txpretrc Ta Rreammrnc TLt.bigLhmrnt 
My Ba.ucL Ta SmpruvgLr jmbige.tganL
. Resignation of the Scottie staff last week will probably hasten 
the setting up of supervisory boards for almost all publications on 
the Carnegie campus under a plan Publications chairman Lee Wiley 
is expected to submit to the special committee of Council soon to 
be appointed. ?
Such a plan was considered last 
year but was rejected because it 
was thought unnecessary. Recent 
happenings in the turbulent life 
of the Scottie have brought forth 
a number of requests for further 
consideration of the system.
Most of the blame for the res
ignation of the Scottie staff was 
laid upon the Student Council 
review board and upon the hard
ships that had been imposed by 
the administration.
A committee is to be appointed 
by the Council president to study 
the Scottie situation and to make 
recommendations on this as well 
as the general editorial policy.
Recommendations
It is believed that this commit
tee will recommend the suspen
sion of the humor magazine for 
this year, the establishment of a 
similar publication for next year, 
and that it will recommend that a 
supervisory board system be in
stalled.
Editorial boards for each of 
three publications  Scottie, Tar
tan, and Thistleare the first pro
posals that Wiley would make to 
the committee. Each of these 
boards would consist of the edi
tor and business manager of the 
publication, the public ationS 
chairman, and two other council 
members appointed by the pres
ident.
The boards would not necessar
ily hold regular meetings, but 
would serve as advisory boards to 
handle relations between the pub
lications and council, and between 
the publications and the outside.
They v/ould not be concerned 
with the carrying out of the busi
ness or editorial ends of the pub
lication, but would serve to de
termine general policy.
No Spies
Wiley emphasized that there 
would not be a spy system, but 
would serve to help Council and 
the staff of the publication.
Council members on a board are 
not to be members of the publica
tion staff, but are to be neutral 
members.
A further committee would be
set up as an appeal board for these 
editorial groups. This board of 
appeals would consist of the pres
ident of council, the publications 
chairman of Council and one 
Council member from each of the 
separate editorial committees. The 
opinions of this board of appeals 
is to be deemed final in most 
cases.
Nat ThgL Yr.u
Wiley does not believe that 
publication of the Scottie can be 
resumed this year and, therefore 
the national advertising commit
ments have been dropped.
He hopes that definite plans can 
be made for a magazine of this 
type on the campus next year and 
will recommend to the committee 
to investigate the possibilities, that 
a preliminary staff be set up to 
work out the style and type of 
magazine to appear.
CampaLru - eancmetau sran.uc 
BrunLtrgn, wha wgii pi.y . ean
erut yau eaiirFr LtmcrntL .t 
Strphrn FaLtru mrmaug.i an Frb
um.uy 10.* # *
Leonard Bernstein, world-fa 
mous conductor and composer, 
will address a meeting of college 
students February 10 at the 
Stephen Foster memorial. The 
gathering is open only to college 
students of the Pittsburgh area
This meeting is sponsored by 
the Intercollegiate Zionist Fed
eration, a campus youth group 
with members at Pitt, Carnegie, 
and Duquesne. The Thursday 
evening affair will begin at 8:40 
p. m. and will feature Bernstein 
as both commentator and musical 
entertainer.
Bernstein will be guest con
ductor of the Pittsburgh Sym
phony orchestra on February 11 
and 13, following his Thursday 
evening reception for collegians
Council Election Plans Proceed
(Cantgnmrc yuam j.Fr 1)
financial 
staff at
risk in orthe present
too much 
ganizing a 
time.
After setting the date for the 
coming election, Councilman Sie
gel announced that Alpha Phi 
Omega will run the mechanics of 
the elections by a precedent set 
by the minutes of April 14. 
s.nF MbjretL
To this Arbon Lang objected on 
the grounds that the old bylaws, 
still in effect, state that each can
didate has the right to select a 
clerk. The matter was settled by 
allowing the candidate to appoint 
a clerk along with A.P.O.
In asking for a committee to 
correlate the Constitution and by
laws, Councilman Meyers pointed 
out the many subjects on which 
the two documents were contra
dictory. President Prus appointed 
Meyers as the chairman of the 
committee along with Barry Rowles, Dave Sapper, John Engle, and 
Frances Rea. Miss Rea is placed 
in the uncomfortable position of
being the non-partisan member oi 
a five member committee.
HamreamgnF Rrpaut
William (Lolly) Anderson ap 
peared before Council to present 
a Homecoming report and sugges 
tions for the next Homecoming 
celebration. A discussion then 
arose over the organization of the 
Homecoming committee. Council 
man Meyers pointed out that or
ganization used last year where 
all campus groups were represent 
ed tended to tie the school togeth
er and therefore was superior to 
a plan where one organization 
has sole charge.
In a last ditch effort to keep ev
erything legal, Arbon Lang dem
onstrated that the non-voting 
members of Council were no long
er legal members of the govern
ing body since the new constitu
tion did not recognize the posi
tion of non-voting member. Pres
ident Prus however, promised to 
investigate the legal possibilities 
of the non-voting members re~ 
maining on Council until their 
terms of office expire in June.
qualifying students who have not 
received the new type of key are 
eligible under the new plan. All 
awards will be made only by ap
plication through the Dean of 
Mens Office.
There are three ways in which 
student may qualify for this 
keyan automatic award, long
evity of service, and points.
Automatic awards include stu
dents holding the positions of 
editor or business manager of the 
Tartan, Scottie, Technical, or 
Thistle; president or budget chair
man of Student Council, or presi
dent of Scotch and Soda.
sanFrvgty 
For longevity of service, both 
men and women must have two 
years active participation on two, 
or three years' active participa
tion on one, of the following ac
tivities: Tartan, Thistle, Scottie, 
Technioal, Kiltie band, Mens or 
Womens Glee club, WCIT, Scotch 
and Soda, and Spring Carnival. 
Women may also include Cano 
and Form.
For points qualification, the 
minimum number of points for 
men is 25 and for women is 12. 
Points for various activities are 
specified on the application forms, 
which will be available in the 
Dean of Mens office. No less than 
one year of active participation 
in an activity will be considered 
for points.
MmLt JmLtgyy
All points must be accompanied 
on the application by the signa
ture of the activity head and a 
statement by the activity head 
justifying the number of points 
awarded.
Key awards will be made once 
a year at the close of the spring 
semester. Applications will be 
available during the second month 
of the spring semester in the 
Dean of Mens office.
Questions about the operation 
of this new key award system 
may be referred to the points and 
keys committee of Student Coun
cil.
Br.mx kutL 
B.ii C.neriirc
Fr.u My Fgn.neg.i 
F.gimur juamptL Mavr
Faced with the alternatives of 
cutting back on their expenses for 
decorations or risking a large fi
nancial loss the members of Beaux 
Arts society last week cancelled 
this years Arts ball scheduled for 
February 25.
When members of the society 
checked with Dean Cambell last 
week on the details of the ball, 
she reported to them that she, Di
rector Miner, and Dean Dickinson 
had conferred and saw no reason 
for extending the ball beyond the 
regulation hours, particularly in 
view of the complaints about the 
1948 ball.
She suggested that the society 
prove this year that they have a 
ball that will appeal to Arts stu
dents and can be financed without 
selling tickets outside that school 
while not bringing unfavorable 
publicity to the school, and then, 
once firmly established, request 
special consideration.
Deciding that the 
of only a three-hour 
a debt from last year 
too heavy a burden, 
decided that it would*n< 
ball this year, despit< 
that much work had al 
done on the decoration
:ombination 
dance, and 
dance was 
the society 
ot offer the 
e the fact 
Lready been

---------------------------------------------------

4THT CkRNTGIT TkRTkNWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 19, 1949
j.mi Myyrum.nnS
SpautLeapr
Tartans Face Weird 
Defense9 Substitution 
Tactics in State, W&J
In their last two starts on the basketball hardwoods, Car
negies hot and cold cagers have had the rather dubious honor 
of playing against two of the most talked-about basketball 
styles in the country.
Mniy thurr c.yL .ytru iaLgnF ta kc.m S.ncruL twapi.taan, umn-rm-u.FFrc W.LhgnFtan & JryyruLan tr.m, thr 
T.ut.nL tu.vriirc ta St.tr CaiirFr ta tuy thrgu imek .F.gnLt 
Jahn s.wthruL maur eanLruv.tgvr, cryrnLr-mgncrc jrnn 
St.tr amtygt. Thr ji.gc, hawrvru, w.L rvgcrntiy . wrieamr 
urigry ta thr mmeh-cryr.trc Ngtt.ny sganL .L thry taak gt 
an thr ehgn, 65-40.
Lawther caused quite a commotion in basketball circles 
throughout the nation a few years back when he introduced his 
famous floating zone defense. Designed primarily to kill-off the 
offensive teams play out of the pivot, it employs its center 
directly behind the other teams pivot man, and has one for
ward floating across the key hole in front of the pivot, while 
the other forwrard presses the man with the ball.
MppanrntL ay s.wthruL LyLtrm ei.gmrc th.t gt wamic 
kgii thr .ppr.i ay thr F.mr ta thr .vru.Fr i.y y.n wha 
p.yrc ta Lrr . Lmaath-waukgnF ayyrnLr, nat cryrnLr. Mu. 
s.wthru puamptiy Lrt hgL eammrueg.i-mgncrc eugtgeL b.ek 
gn thrgu Lr.tL by Lt.tgnF th.t hr w.L gntrurLtrc gn aniy anr 
thgnF, .nc th.t w.L ta wgn b.ii F.mrL.
While the fire-brand, basket-a-minute teams are certainly 
spectacular to watch, more conservative coaches can feel 
safe in the fact that people will always pay to see a winning 
team, whether that team scores a basket and then sits on the 
ball or races up and down the court like scared rabbits in 
shooting for 100 points.
Spaut natrLA news item out of Peoria, Illinois, follow
ing Carnegie Techs appearance in the mid-western city, tosses 
another compliment to Mike Theodore, Carnegies high-scoring center. According to the Bradley coach, Theodore was the 
best pivotman that his team had faced this season. Big Mike 
scored 24 points, making good 10 of 15 field goal attempts. 
This was the highest scoring effort against Bradley this sea
son. It is interesting to note that the Braves, who had won 
twelve straight before they defeated the Tartans, abruptly fell 
apart at the seams and lost three of their next four games. 
The defeats were administered by San Francisco, St. Louis, 
and Oklahoma A & M.
Nrw ea.eh by LpugnF?According to Buddy Overend, ath
letic director, Carnegies new coach will be appointed before 
the gridders start in on their short, two-wTeek spring drills. 
Everyone should be surprised when the announcement is made, 
because Overend is as tight-lipped as a clam!
Danahar wgii hr.c yau thr Lmnny LamthBill Donohoe will 
probably head for Florida when he leaves Carnegie this year. 
After he wras separated from the army, he had a very success
ful high school coaching record in St. Petersburg. Donohoe 
is certain to find a little more sunshine down in the sunny 
south than he has found in Pittsburgh since coming here. 
The former Skibo football great is not thinking of coaching 
much longer. He is looking forwTard to a teaching job.
___ACCOUNTING, Elementary
___ALGEBRA, Celles* _______
___ANCIENT HISTORY
Start fr$parhg tay
with theCOLLEGE OUTLINE SERIES
kNC., MED., and MOD. HIST.. 
-..ANTHROPOLOGY, Outline of_.__BACTERIOLOGY, Prin. of____
___BIOLOGY, General___________
__ BOTANY, General __________
___BUSINESS LAW - -
___CALCULUS, The .
.CHEMISTRY, Fir Year Col...
,__CHEMISTRY, Math, for Gen..
___CHEMISTRY, Organic
___CORPORATION FINANCE __
------DOCUMENTED PAPERS, Writ.
 ECONOMICS, Principle of__
___EDUCATION. History of_____
___ENGLAND, History of_
.EUROPE, 1500-1848, Hlt. of___
------EUROPE, 1815-1947, History of_
___EXAMS., How to Write Better___
FORESTRY, Gen., Outline of____
___FRENCH GRAMMAR
.GEOLOGY. Principle* of.
___GEOMETRY, Plane, Prob. in____
__GERMAN GRAMMAR___________
GOVERNMENT, American ______
___GRAMMAR, ENG. Prin. ft Proc. of
__HYDRAULICS for Firemen________
.__JOURNALISM, Survey of________
__LATIN AMERICA, HUtory of______
___LATIN AMERICA in Maps________
__LAT AMER. Clvlliz., Rdgt. in____
 LAT. AMER. Economic Dev______
$1.00 L 1.00 
.75
1.25
1.25
1.25 .75
. .75
1.50
1.25
1.25 
.75
1.50 
1.06
.75
1.25 
.75 
.75 
.75
1.00
.25
1.25 
1.00 
1.00 
1.00 
1.00
.75
1.25 
1.00
1.25
1.50
1.25
1.50
1.25
-$1.50___LITERATURE, American
------LITERATURE, English, Diet. af_ 1.25LIT., English, Hitt, to Dry den___ 1.25
------LIT., Eng., Hist, since Milton____ 1.25
___LITERATURE, German __________ 1.50
LOGARITHMIC ft Trig. Table*___
------MID. AGES, 300-1500, Hitt. ef_
___MUSIC, History of_
___PHILOSOPHYi An Intro
___PHILOSOPHY, Readings
,___PHYSICS, First Ye* Col
------POLITICAL SCIENCE
___POLITICS, Diet, of Amor I
------PORTUGUESE GRAMMAR
___PRONUNCIATION, Gvlda
------PSYCHOLOGY, Educational
___PSYCHOLOGY, General __
___RUSSIA, History of
___SHAKESPEAREAN Name*, Diet__ 1.00
___SHAKESPEARE'S Plays, Out. ef_ 1.00
SLIDE RULE, Practical use of____ .75
___SOCIOLOGY, Principles of.
___SPANISH GRAMMAR _____
___STATISTICAL METHODS _
___STUDY, Best Methods el___
------TRIG., Plane t Spherical
__TUDOR ft STUART Plays,
___U. S. In Second World War.
___U. S. to 1865, History of__
___U. S.. since 1865, History of.
___WORLD, Since 1914, History
___ZOOLOGY, General
lGsFLi irff$FW TM CHkMM
1.25 1.00
1.25 
.60
1.25 
1.50
.75
.75
J5
1.00
1.00
These Are All Available At TheSTUDENT BOOK EXCHANGE
3811 Fgyth kvrnmr
MjTN 8:30 TM 6
MppanrntL Ci.mp Dawn Mn 
Thracaur; ji.gc saLrL Twa
Jeffs Romp 
Over Skibos
Theodore Bottled Up 
By Two-Man Guard
Stop Mike Theodore and youll 
beat Carnegie Tech! Thats the 
cry that is making the rounds of 
tri-state basketball coaches this 
season.
W&J Coach Adam Sanders 
took heed to his coaching breth
rens cry last Wednesday night 
and effectively double - teamed 
Theodore for the entire game, as 
the Presidents romped to an easy 
victory over the Skibos, 69-47.
With a man in front of him, 
and one behind him, Theodore 
was able to get away only 12 field 
goal attempts, two of which he 
sunk. The Tartans were only in 
the game for the first quarter, as 
Jack Riehl and Marty Chetlin 
picked up Theodores scoring 
slack. After that, however, they 
were only along for the ride.
Making mass substitutions in 
his famed platoon system, San
ders sent five fresh men in the 
game every four minutes. This 
system began to pay off after the 
first ten minutes as the Presidents 
started to run circles around the 
tiring Palid.
Dave Knoche, youngest brother 
of the famous basketball-playing 
Knoches, wound up with 13 
points to annex high-scoring 
honors for the evening. He was 
closely followed by his substi
tute, Earl McKinney, who had 11 
points.
Despite his off-night, Theodore 
still managed to share high-scoring honors with Marty Chetlin, 
both hitting the hoops for ten 
points. Jack Riehl, who gave the 
home-town folks something to 
cheer about when he scored 
baskets on two beautiful floating 
layup shots, had nine points.
WurLtiruL Srt 
Sehrcmir My 
Famu M.tehrL
Varsity wrestling is in the proc
ess of making a comeback at 
CIT, with Carnegies best wrestlers 
meeting outside organizations in 
home-and-home matches.
Among the teams tentatively 
scheduled are Downtown Y, 
Pitt Intramural, Allegheny Y, 
and Coraopolis Y. Dates hase 
note been definitely set but the 
season will extend from the last 
of February through the end of 
March.
It is expected that the team will 
enter the Junior AAU meet to be 
held shortly before Easter. Some 
of the fellows on the squad en
tered last year but none won a 
weight championship, so all are 
eligible to re-enter. It is hoped 
that with an added year of exper
ience the Plaid entries will bring 
back a title or two.
Those now working out include 
Horsch, 118 pounds; Schmitt, 125 
pounds; Coyle, 135 pounds; Kinsel and Stevens, 145 pounds; Mays 
and McBeth, 155 pounds; Car
penter, 165 pounds; Taylor and 
Mavrigan, 175 pounds; and Neilan 
and Meyers in the heavyweight 
division. More men are expected 
to report at the beginning of the 
second semester.
Penn State Floating Zone Defense 
Allows Mike Only Three Field Goals
STATE COLLEGE, Pa., Jan. 15Victory-starved Penn State 
took out all their revenge on Carnegie Techs equally hapless basket
ball team here tonight, by trouncing the Plaid 65-40 before 4000
? very happy fans.
SwgmmruL Br.t 
C.Lr, saLr ta 
StuanF Mbruign
Mbruign M.teh Dregcrc 
In H.uc-FamFht Rri.y
Carnegie Techs highly touted 
swimming team had its undefeated 
record ended last Saturday as a 
strong Oberlin team squeaked 
home in front by a count of 42-33. 
The defeat sent the Tartans home 
with a split in their two-day incasion of Ohio.
On Friday, Coach Claude Sofields natators swamped Case by 
a 47-28 margin. A1 Macey, the 
Skibos distance star, churned 
in front in both the 220 and 440- 
yard freestyle events in the Cleve
land meet.
The Ofcerlin match was studded 
with four meet records as the Tar
tans pressed the Yeomen right 
down to the wire.
With only the 400-yard relay 
remaining, Oberlin led by the 
slender margin of two points, 35- 
33. After the first three laps of 
100 yards had been completed, the 
two teams were exactly even and 
Kinsey hit the water for Oberlin 
and Nick Lemas for Carnegie.
Demas pushed Kinsey to the 
new meet mark of 3:55.1, losing 
the event by the slender margin 
of 1.5 seconds.
Dave Lucky, the Plaids bril
liant breast stroke artist, who 
hasnt lost in that event in three 
years, continued on his winning 
way by setting a meet record of 
2:39 in the 200 yards.
The other two meet records were 
set by Kinsey, the Yeomens oneman swimming team who indi
vidually accounted for ten points 
in addition to racing the winning 
lap of the seven-point relay event. 
Kinseys record times were 55.7 in 
the 100-yard free style, and 2:24.3 
in the 220-yard free style.
Nick Demas can be accredited 
with three assists in helping Kin
sey set three meet records. The 
Carnegie sprinter pushed the 
Oberlin star to each of his wins, 
finishing in the second slot, only 
a few feet behind every time. 
Demas placed first in the 440 free 
style.
Bob Eicholtz, promising Car
negie freshman, won his first in
tercollegiate meet by taking the 
50-yard free style.
The Tartans have a tough week 
ahead of them as they travel to 
Slippery Rock tonight and then 
entertain Fenn of Cleveland in 
the Skibo pool on Saturday after
noon.
Bob Buzby, Fenns swimming 
star who finished fourth in the 
national Olympic trials last year, 
will be out to break pool records 
in the 50, 100, and 440-yard free 
style. The Tartans, however, with 
pressure from such a team as Fenn 
may break a few records of their 
own.
Women Practice 
Basketball
W.k.k. B.Lkrtb.ii pu.etger 
wgii br hric an Manc.y, Wrc
nrLc.y .nc ThmuLc.y .ytru
naanL .t 4:30 p. m. Thr yguLt 
F.mr gL Lehrcmirc yau Frbum
.uy 24 wgth Mt. Mruey.
Only their second win in six 
starts, the Nittany Lions poured it 
on in the second half, doubling 
the 18 points that the Tartans were 
able to score.
Once again it was only a matter 
of stopping Mike Theodore before 
the Tartans offense completely 
fell apart and purred meekly at 
the feet of the towering Lions.
With their floating zone crowd
ing up the keyhole, the State men 
had little trouble with big Mike 
as he threw in only three field 
goals.
Connecting on seven out of 
eight charity tosses, however, Mike 
still held down his leading scoring 
post for the Tartans with 13 
points.
Kenny Weiss, a substiute for
ward, led the Lions in their first 
half drive to hold the lead, sink
ing four quick baskets to shoot 
his team out to a 29-22 halftime 
lead. Milt Simon, who has been 
playing basketball at State so long 
that he is almost a landmark, hit 
the nets for seven baskets, most 
of them coming in the second half.
The Plaid was in the game for 
only the first quarter, before the 
Nittany Lions organized their of
fense. While ten players broke 
into the scoring column for State, 
Carnegie had only five who scored 
from the field.
The 65 points rolled up by Penn 
State was their highest scoring 
effort of the season.
Carnegie TechFG F TPMatsey, f . .3 1 7McCTh,  3 Thdre, c 3 Riehl, g .. 2 Chetlin, g 0 D. Schober 0Clinton ___0Hammann . 0 ONeill ___0
2 8 7 13 3 7
L. Schober 0 0Beck ..........2Lagrone ..0
Totals13 14 40 Totals
Fenn StateFG F TPRhlmn, f 3 0 6Nrdblm, f 1 Costa, c ... 3Simon, g Lamie, g 
McKown Apchella Schisler . Bozinsky
5 7 0 6 0 14
Tocci ..........0Weiss ..........5 1 11Lawther ... 1Storer ..........0Shuptar ___0
0 2 2 2 0 0
27 11 65
Half time scorePenn State, 29; Carnegie Tech, 22.Personal fouls: Tech (17)Matsey,Clinton 2, Theodore 3, Hamman, ONeil, Riehl 4, Chetlin, Beck 2, Lagrone 2. Penn State (16)Ruhlman, Nordbloom 2, McKown 4, Costa 2, Bozinsky 2, Simon 2, Tocci, Lamie, Shuptar.Free throws missed: Tech (9)Matsey, McCullugh 3, Theodore, Hamman 2, Riehl 2. Penn State (13)Ruhlman, Nordbloom, Costa, Simjon, Lamie 4, Weiss, Lawther, Storer 2, Shuptar.OfficialsWhite and Howard.
Tartan Rifle 
Team Drops 
Match to Pitt
Practice Match Is 
First This Season
Firing in their first competition 
of the season, Carnegie Techs var
sity rifle team lost a practice match 
to the University of Pittsburgh 
last Thursday, 1333 to 1301. Nei
ther team was up to its best ef
forts.
Hixon of Pitt captured individ
ual scoring honors with 279 out 
of 300 points. John Bachofer was 
high for Carnegie, hitting 268 of 
300. In the different positions, 
Kolbe of Carnegie and Davis of 
Pitt had perfect scores of 100. 
Hixon registered the best firing 
score in the kneeling and standing 
positions with 93 and 87 points, 
respectively.
In February, the womens team 
will fire the next three-position 
match with the freshmen team. 
Later in the month, intercollegiate 
competiion is slated to begin for 
the varsity.

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 19, 1949THE CARNEGIE TARTAN5
Sigs notched the victory, 43-41. 
Emanon came from behind to de
feat the Steamers, 27-21.
SmupugLr jgKkL
In other American league ac
tion, the Freshman Architects 
rolled over the Beta Sigs, 41-20, 
and then staged a terrific fourth 
quarter rally to swamp PiKA, de
fending champions, 48-32.
Federal league action saw TNTA lead all the way to edge Phi 
Kappa, 32-28, and then go on to 
defeat Kappa Sig B, 44-35. Big 
Pete Katsafanas netted 19 points 
in the Kappa Sig battle.
Theta Xi scored an easy 47-18 
verdict over the outmanned Billikens and then edged Phi Kappa in 
a thrilling game, 37-30. Bob Mat
thews, TX forward, meshed 14 
markers to lead the scoring in the 
Phi Kap fray, with Captain Wayne 
Boyd doing an outstanding job in 
setting-up the plays from his 
guard position.
Brt. SgetaugrL
Beta Theta Pi No. 2 battled in
to the three-way first place tie in 
the Federal league with easy vie-, 
tories over the Dragons 37-17 and 
Forty-Niners, 51-29.
TNT-B, led by Tasso Katselas, 
led the field in the National 
league, scoring an easy 57-18 win 
over the Dons, and then staging 
a second-half spurt to defeat ATO,
CAWWs
BEYOND jT RkM STNTURT, MY BOY, YOU 
HAVE ASSEMBLED MATERIAL ENOUGH 
TO COAST TO A WIN IN TOMORROW'S DEBATE WITH LITTLEV/LLE
I'LL DO OKAY-ON iy TROUBLE IS MY 
THROAT FEELS ALL SMOKED OUT
^THkTS CIGkRTTTT^ Q? HkNGMSTR FRTDDY 
-A WHY NOT CHANGE 
bgt TM jHIsIj MMRRIS'A THE ONLY LEADING
m cigarette provedli DEFINITELY LESS 
t JRRITATING ?
MAN, WHATA CLEANS 
FRESH MILD TASTE 1 
jHIsIj MMRRISHAVE/MY THROAT FEELS TIP-TOP FOR THE BIG iNTER-STATE 
DEBATE - A
WATCH r.MEpersuade wV m 
'EM :i BOYS yip *
'AND SO, GENTLEMEN, HRUMPH' 
HRJJMPH- PARDON ME -IN MY PERORATION I WISH TO gg EMPHASIZE THE W
IRREFRAGABlUTy OF MY y FACTS- HRUMPH-ULP-UIP p PARDON ME - I CANT M, CONTINUE MtLL
LOOKS AS ' 
IF JOHNNY FOUND THE , SOLUTION 
I TO youa 
CIGkRTTTT 
HkNGMSTR
I SMOKED SO N 
MUCH GETTING A\Y SPEECH READY THAT MY MOUTH FEELS STALE AND 
MY THROAT IS 
DRY AS k Jv bone/ r
I NEVER SAW A STAR DEBATER SUFFER SUCH A CkTkCsYSMIC COLLAPSE/ HELL BE SUNK FOR 
THE BIG INTER* STATE DEBATE
HE'S GOT - >
CIGkRTTTT HkNGMSTRV WE'LL HELP HIM /
Vinard Studi
FREDDY YOUR ELOQUENCE WAS H&*jMSITISTsY TjI DTICTIC gBOY, YOU WERE TERRIFIC! __gT1
THAT IS WHY I REITERATE, IN THE 
WORDS OF THE ILLUSTRIOUS EMANCIPATOR: 'AMERICA IS THE LAST BEST HOPE OF ( 
EARTH FOR ALL PEOPLES/
Fine PortraituresM6se, ao6G koFdM6edGa
FORENSIC  Pertaining to public debate.
DEMOSTHENEAN - Like Demosthenes, 
famous old Greek orator who could 
really "send" his hearers.
PERADVENTURE  Possibility of failure.
PERORATION-Grand finale of a 
prepared speech.
IRREFRAGABILITY- Power of enduring 
beyond disproof.
CATACLYSMIC - Disastrous.
CIGARETTE HANGOVER - That stale, 
smoked-out taste; that tight, dry feeling 
in your throat due to smoking.
MELLIFLUOUS  Smoothly-flowing.
EPIDEICTIC  Pleasurably impressive.
Application prints and 
photostats in a hurry
MULrmm 0314
3919 FaubrL Sturrt
(Caunru ktwaac) Baam 416
yLa WERE JOHNNY AND
jHIsIj MMRRIS*AND JUST WHEN I NEEDED'EM I MOST /
JOHNNY, I NEVER HEARD A MOREMTssIFsUMUS WINDUP/ FREDDY'S VICTORY GIVES US OUR FIRST INTERSTATE DEBATING TITLE /
Let's go to
ISALY'S
Milk Shakes 
Big lee Cream Cones 
Klondikes 
Tasly Lunches
Our Story Has Direct Mora/:
Brhgnc thr pi.yymi piat, amu gntrntganL .ur crygngtriy LrugamL: 
wr w.nt ta puavr ta yam th.t jHIsIj MMRRIS bugnFL yam . 
wrieamr cgyyrurner gn egF.urttrL.
ThgL puaay gL taa rxtrnLgvr ta br crt.girc hrurbmt pur
mrcge.i .nc ehrmgLtuy LtmcrntL, wha wgii br rLpreg.iiy gntru
rLtrc, e.n Frt gt gn pmbigLhrc yaum FRTT, by wugtgnF amu 
RrLr.ueh Drpt., jhgigp MauugL Ca., 119 Fgyth kvr., N. Y.
Three Stores In the College 
District
5808 Forhos Strut, Staimi Hill 
3714 Forbos Street Oakland
M.ia jg.ntg
3380 Boulevard of the Aillos
33 Teams Battle For Intramural 
Basketball Crown; PiKAs Lose
Defending Champs Bow to Frosh Architects;
Emanon, TNT Strong; May Settle All-Points
CITs intramural basketball season swung into full-scale action 
last week with thirty-three teams battling for the coveted, school 
crown. Six games are being played nightly on the three courts in 
the gymnasium. +----------------------------------------------------
In the American league, Ema
non A and the Freshman Archi
tects jumped off to a fast start, 
winning their first two games. 
Theta Xi, TNT A, and Beta Theta 
Pi No. 2 deadlocked for the lead 
in the Federal league; while TNT 
B, Citcom, and the Big Five 
headed the National League witb 
two victories each.
Featured frays in the American 
league were the Kappa Sig-Beta 
and the Emanon-Stanley Steamer 
battles, both of which were over
time affairs. Larry Stovicek, Kap
pa Sig center, sank a pivot shot 
from the foul circle with two sec
onds of regulation time remaining 
to tie the game up at 38-38 and 
send it into overtime. Scoring five 
points in the overtime, the Kappa
47-28. Katselas led the TNT pointmakers with 24 markers in each 
game.
BgF Fgvr WgnL
The Big Five, a team composed 
largely of varsity football players, 
have appeared impressive in their 
first two starts, swamping the Tau 
Delts, 46-28, and following-up 
with a 45-29 conquest of Delta Upsilon. Gordon was the outstanding 
shot-maker in both games for the 
Big Five.
Citcoms two victories last week 
were at the expense of SAE, by 
a 37-22 score, and the Tau Delts, 
by a 38-31 margin. Although 
outscored by the Tau Delts in the 
second half, Citcoms first half 
lead was large enough to assure 
the victory.
Intu.m.u.i Smmm.uy
M0Cgv$h0ff iw(vm)fv
Wednesday, January 19Thiel in gym 
8:30 P. M.
Saturday, January 22Geneva at Beaver Falls.Saturday, February 5St. Vincent in gym8:30 P. M
iyE__EAO iw(vm)fv
Wednesday, January 19SlipperyRock at Slippery Rock.Saturday, January 22Fenn here.
M0Cgv$h0ff GvC)f$C
Purple Raiders.28Sigma Nu -----14
Frosh. Arch..33Stnly StmrsEmanon A..27.21*
Kappa Sigma A43Betas No. 1 ...41*
4817
Frosh Arch. ....48PiKA ................32
Stnly Stmrs.2418
Emanon A..34V>,5
Betas No. 1.52DU ......................35.5718
Big Five ..........46ATO ..................29Phi Kappa B ..19
37SAE ...................22
,3324
Big Five ..........45DU ....................29
.38Tau Delts ....31
TNT B ............47ATO ..................28
Theta Xi ........,4718
Betas No. 2.3717TNT A ..............33Phi Kappa A ..28
Forty-Niners ....30FPHA ...............16
ASCE ................39Kappa Sigma B23
Delts ..................?,7!Dragons ...........21
Theta Xi ........37Phi Kappa A.30
TNT A ............44Kappa Sigma B36Betas No. 2 * Overtime.51Forty-Niners ...29
M0Cgv$h0ff i$0AmEAOC
American LeagueWonLost
0
Freshman Architects ..0
Kappa Sigma A ..........0
Purple Raiders ......................10
1
Beta Theta Pi No. 1 .........11
........11
1
1
2
2
Federal LeagueWonLost
0
........20
Beta Theta Pi No. 2........20
Delta Tau Delta ..................10
........10
........11........011
Phi Kappa A ..........................02........02
Kappa Sigma B ............2
National LeagueWonLost
........20........200
Delta Upsilon ................1........11........111
Phi Kappa B ..........................01
........01
........01
Tau Delta Phi ..................2
W0hfv WvAAEC i$0AmEAOC
Skibo League Won Lost
Emanon .......................................3 0BTP ...............................................2 0
SAE .........................r....................1 0KS .................................................2 1
DTD ................................................1 2DU ..................................................1 2Dorm A .......................................0 2TNT ...............................................0 0
Scots League Won LostTX .................................................3 0PiKA .............................................3 0TDP ................................................2 0St. St................................................2 2BSR ................................................1 2ATO ................................................1 2Citcom ..........................................0 2PK .................................................0 4
to6G MdGMLGi Wo 
iLGkL ao6
If Youre Particular, See theTECH BARBER SHOP
Caunru ay Cu.gF .nc FaubrL
SCHTNsTY 
HkND skUNDRY
418 Samth Cu.gF SturrtU ,da iLGksFL
Darning and Mending Free

---------------------------------------------------

6THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
!
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 19, 1949
Spring Carnival Plans Progress; 
Homecoming Called Success
Veterans' NoticeCamprtgtgan IL 
Stgyy Fau JabL 
ThgL Yr.u
W.nFrm.n SrrL Maur 
Gu.cm.trL CamprtgnF 
Fau Gaac jaLgtganL
Seniors will have a bit more 
difficulty finding the jobs they 
want this year than they have in 
the past several years, Bureau of 
Placements head Charles E. Wan
geman said last week.
There will be just as many 
jobs this year, he said, but there 
will be more graduates seeking 
them out, the seniors will there
fore have to seek out the job to 
a much greater extent than they 
have for the past several years. 
Wangemans explanation was 
that the boost in demand for 
graduate engineers following the 
war is beginning to drop off a lit
tle, so that firms which were tak
ing anyone two years ago are now 
not nearly so frantic and will look 
more carefully to find men who 
closely fit their specifications.
Grads Must Sell Selves 
Our office welcomes the 
change, added Wangeman, for 
it will bring on a more normal 
relationship of employer and 
prospective employee. This should 
bring on a different attitude in 
the graduates, for they will be 
forced to sell themselves, rather 
than offering their talents to the 
highest bidder.
Notices of interviews have al
ready been posted, and the first 
of the firms will probably start 
visiting the campus in February. 
However, Wangeman noted that 
a number of firms which former
ly have sent representatives here 
are this year sending letters in
viting interested seniors to write 
to them.
Employment Tips For Seniors 
The best thing for each senior 
to do, Carnegies employment 
scout concluded, is to use all the 
facilities of our office, getting in
formation on firms from the files 
and keeping post on possible 
offers by watching the Senior 
Book of letters and the bulletin 
boards.
FRkZTR jRMCTSS
SPECIALIZED HAIR REMOVING BY 
LICENSED ELECTROLOGIST
5737 D.uignFtan Ra.c 
JkekLan 5775
EWISREAD
IOCET
WNT I)N
HAMBURGERS
u0mv yE$( BRR* H)Nv hvvS 
6Y iY DIvNA_vA$ EACHvw$vm
LARGE MILK SHAKES
u0mv yE$( H)Nv y(Ifv 
_Efg
RODGERS
Oairy Stores
-PR toGMLi iWGLLW 
nv0N MI)v$
cBP FLnWLG dkLn6L 
nv0N FN0EO
cBc rden6W iWGLLW 
i(0mTCEmv
Other stores downtown
C.ungv.i Wgii Fr.tmur 
Fugc.y Sturrt D.ner
For the first time since 1940, 
Spring Carnival will feature a 
free-to-the-public outdoor dance 
as one of its major events, the 
carnival committee decided last 
week.
The street dance, as it was 
called before the war, will be an 
informal affair held on Friday 
night, open to the college crowd 
of the Pittsburgh area.
Carnival will take place on 
May 12, 13 and 14. On Thursday 
evening, the Scotch and Soda club 
will hold its production of Mole
cule Man at the Carnegie Music 
Hall. Friday night will feature 
the scene of the outdoor dance, 
while Saturday evening a formal 
with a name band will be held in 
the gymnasium.
Council Approves 
Next FalVs Plan
This years Homecoming con
clusively proved that a large 
number of organizations on the 
campus could successfully work 
together on one subject.
Student Council was well satis
fied and last week approved the 
same type of organization for 
next year. A committee has also 
been appointed to discuss this 
years and next years Homecom
ing and to select a chairman for 
next year.
The primary goal of this years 
Homecoming was to install in 
present and future alumni all 
over th nation the idea of com
ing back to the event each year, 
and also to bring the freshman 
regulations and the freshmansophomore c o m p e tition to a 
greater head.
kv$C WN0ACSvNNEAO
Veterans who plan to transfer 
to some other university or onthe-job training program at the 
end of this semester should apply 
at once for a supplemental cer
tificate of eligibility, in order that 
it be processed prior to February 
1, 1949. Application MUST BE 
MADE THROUGH THE VET
ERANS OFFICE, 133 Industries 
hall.
Veterans are reminded that the 
effective date of a supplemental 
certificate is the date the appli
cation is received by the Vet
erans administration, 107 Sixth 
Strete, and NOT the date the ap
plication is signed by the veteran.
Since considerable time is re
quired by the Veterans adminis
tration in processing a supple
mental certificate following re
ceipt of application, it is recom
mended that veterans transfer
ring-from CIT at midyear lose no 
tme in instituting transfer pro
cedure.
kv$C ev0EAO
Veterans who will complete 
their courses by the end of this 
semester, thereby becoming can
didates for either bachelor or 
graduate degrees, are requested 
to notify Miss Kaltenborn in the 
Veterans office, 133 Industries * 
hall, of this fact at once.
Veterans now in training who 
will not be returning to Carnegie 
Tech for the spring semester must 
so inform Miss Kaltenlborn, in 
order that their training might be 
interrupted at the end of the cur
rent semester.
Spring Registration Set 
For February 7 and 8 4
D.y urFgLtu.tgan yau thr SpugnF 
LrmrLtru wgii t.kr pi.er Manc.y, 
Frbum.uy 7, .nc TmrLc.y, Frbum
.uy 8, yuam 8:30 .. m. ta 12 naan. 
kn hamu bur.k wgii br Fgvrn yau 
imneh. RrFgLtu.tgan wgii thrn br 
urLmmrc .t 1:00 p. m. .nc wgii i.Lt 
tgii 4:30 p. m.
kppuaxgm.triy 3343 LtmcrntL 
wgii urFgLtru: 2000 gn thr CaiirFr 
ay TnFgnrrugnF; 730 gn Fgnr kutL, , 
500 gn M.uF.urt MauugLan, .nc 23 " 
gn thr sgbu.uy Lehaai.
e)wgEvCp SEAv $Ih0wwI HEwgC TI) 
)H y(vA TI)pNv fIy 1 1 1 w0f_C 
TI) mIyA y(vA TI)pNv $vACv5
e)wgEvC8 SEAv $Ih0wwI H)$C TI) IA $(v NEO($ fvvf4thr smeky 
irvrita yrri yamu irvri brLt, ca yamu irvri brLt.
Th.tL why gtL gmpaut.nt ta urmrmbru th.t Lucky Strike 
Means Fine Tobaccomgic, ugpr, igFht tab.eea th.t m.krL . 
thauamFhiy rnjay.bir Lmakr. Na wancru maur gncrprncrnt tab.eea 
rxprutL.metganrruL, bmyruL .nc w.urhamLrmrn  Lmakr smeky 
Stugkr urFmi.uiy th.n Lmakr thr nrxt twa ir.cgnF bu.ncL eambgnrc.
sgFht mp . smeky! smekgrL ygnr tab.eea pgekL yam mp whrn yamur 
iaw, e.imL yam cawn whrn yamur trnLr. Sa Frt an thr smeky irvri 
whrur gtL ymn ta br .igvr. Grt . e.utan .nc Frt Lt.utrc tac.y!
COPR., THE AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY
ac&y Su'ke Afeant fine 7o6aeec

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 19, 1949THT CkRNTGIT TkRTkN7
Thr C.unrFgr ji.gc
Page edited by Evening School Students 
of the Carnegie Institute of Technology
Tcgtau ............................................................................. sam kc.mL
NrwL Tcgtau ............................................... knthany B.ub.ugna
kLLaeg.tr TcgtauL ... R.ymanc Sehw.im, Ch.uirnr J. Tahry
Cguemi.tgan M.n.Fru..................................................GrauFr D.wrL
St.yy
ReportersBob Ellstrom, George Bogovich, Cecille Zellner, Jim Flaherty.
ColumnistsFrank Mihelich, C. G. Anderson.
Editorial
kw.ucL SyLtrm RrvgLrc
For several years, there has been much agitation on the 
evening campus for a change in the set-up by which the In
signia Award of Evening Student Council is governed. The 
former points system has been made obsolete by changes in the 
number of colleges functioning on our campus and by the result
ant decrease in the number of activities in which the students 
may participate.
In the years previous to World War II there were four 
colleges offering courses, and the registration was very large. 
Since then the College of Industries has been abolished, and 
registration has fallen off considerably. Under the old system 
each college had many separate activities as well as those of 
the school as a whole. The original plan was based on this 
large number plus the fact that there were so many active 
students.
With the decline of the four colleges the possible ways in 
which to earn an award key were lowered, and it became very 
difficult to get enough points. It was with this in mind that 
Evening Student Council undertook the revision of the award 
system. A committee was formed to study the problem, and to 
make recommendations for the rvaluation. The group work
ed for three months and prepared a report which was accepted 
by the council on January 9.
The plan as it will now operate lowers the requirements 
thereby giving more people an opportunity to achieve this 
honor. The standards have not been lowered, bu't rather have 
been made more equitable. Perhaps this action points the way 
to the revival of the former prominence of activities on eve
ning school. We hope that more students will be encouraged to 
try to qualify for the Eveaiing S:tudent Council Insignia 
Award.
We wish to commend council and Mr. Robert Ellstrom, 
chairman of the investigating group, on their capable hand
ling of this matter. It indicates the fact that the committee 
system is the best method of getting things done, and we hope 
that more and more work will be done this way.
When a Fellowm
Welcomes Hospitality
Ask for it either way ... both 
trade-marks mean the same thing.
jimL U 
St.tr T.x
BMTTsTD UNDER AUTHORITY MF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY 
CMCk-CMsk BMTTsING CM. MF jk., jITTSBURGH, jk.
 1949, Th Coca-Cola Compony
NrwL
knc
SgrwL
We could begin this column by 
mentioning the weather but since 
it has been behaving itself lately 
that wouldnt make news. We 
could mention that the first semes
ter of school is almost over, but 
since most of you are well aware 
of it, that wouldnt be news either 
so Ill just begin by saying Hello, 
and I hope you have the courage 
to read on.
Since walking the cut to the car 
stop is a necessary evil, this 
writer tries to make it as inter
esting as possible by keeping his 
ears and eyes open hoping to pick 
up an item or so for the Plaid. 
This method of gathering news can 
lead to a liberal education. Why 
just the other night I heard two 
fellows walking along the cut 
discussing the proper way of voic
ing a Dixieland Jazz Band. Ac
cording to the one fellow the clari
net is written a full third above 
the trumpet lead while the tenor 
sax is voiced a fourth below. This 
was the mode of their discussion 
the entire walk down the cut and 
I still would like to know what 
they meant when they agreed with 
each other that an augmented 
fifth with a major seventh could 
be resolved into a diminished sev
enth chord. It proved too much 
for me so I began mumbling the 
multiplication tables to myself 
thankful that all engineers had to 
worry about was calculus.
Our hurrahs this week are go
ing to be a bit premature, but 
since it will be a few weeks until 
this column appears again in print 
we are sending our cheers towards 
Dick Van Helinger. Dick has been 
chosen chairman for the Engi
neers Banquet, to be held in the 
Roosevelt hotel on April 30. Dick 
has already made wonderful 
progress in his assignment and 
we know that he is going to pre
sent a grand affair for the En
gineers.
Congratulations are in order for 
George Dawes our circulation 
manager who recently became a 
proud papa again.
Congratulations also to Grace 
Kreuger, who is getting married 
January 29. Grace was secretary 
to Evening Student Council for 
school year 47-48. She plans 
to make her home in Texas. 
Council will hate to see her leave, 
but were sure that Grace will
L9lLGW GLldsGi
RADIOS, PHONOGRAPHS, APPLIANCES
Sales and Service
.RQCD EOICW 
R.RuiECu uWL
1183 OAKLAND AVE. HA. 4211
Bring Your Radio Problems 
To Us
to TEARS EXPERIENCE
At Your Service
W
.
L
F
eM
F
7
Good Meals Anytime
Try IJs Soon 
uINAX nEO($X IN nIIA
W(v FfIwg
3814 FaubrL St.
Stmcrnt Camnegi Ta SpanLau 
Inyaum.i jur-srntrn D.ner
Rgeh.uc TiigatL MuehrLtu. Ta juavgcr MmLge;
Fmii juaFu.m Wgii Ineimcr Navrity D.nerL
Continuing their successful social program, Evening Student 
Council has scheduled a dance for Saturday, February 26 from 9:00 
to 1:00 oclock. The music will be provided by Richard Elliots or
chestra, a campus organization. The group has been active on the
1 ?dav school campus for two years 
and has become quite popular.Finals
Fgn.i rx.mgn.tganL ay thr 
yguLt LrmrLtru wgii brFgn J.nm
.uy 24. SehrcmirL ay thr ygn.i 
rx.mgn.tganL wgii br paLtrc an 
thr bmiirtgn ba.ucL. RrFgLtu.
tgan yau thr Lreanc LrmrLtru 
wgii br hric TmrLc.y .nc Wrc
nrLc.y rvrngnFL, Frbum.uy 8 
.nc 9, yuam 6:30 ta 9:30 p. m. 
Thr Lehrcmir ay ei.LLrL wgii 
brFgn Frbum.uy 10. Na ymuthru 
natger ay thr Lreanc LrmrLtru 
urFgLtu.tgan prugac wgii br Lrnt 
ta LtmcrntL naw urFgLtrurc.
Fgn.i Fu.crL wgii br .v.gi
.bir .t thr crp.utmrnt.i crLk, 
cmugnF urFgLtu.tgan. jsTkST 
DM NMT kSK MR jHMNT 
FMR YMUR GRkDTS BT
FMRT THkT TIMT. Thr 
.mamnt ay wauk ta br .eeam
pigLhrc gn thr RrFgLtu.uL My
yger brtwrrn LrmrLtruL m.krL gt 
gmpaLLgbir ta h.vr Fu.crL 
.v.gi.bir bryaur thr urFgLtu.tgan 
prugac.
keep in touch by letter with her 
many friends at Carnegie Tech.
Girls, dont forget to contact 
Dick Van Helinger, box 256, if 
you desire to earn points to
wards obtaining an Insignia key. 
Council has been liberal in deter
mining the number of points to 
be earned for typing letters, so 
dont hesitate to contact Dick and 
he will give you all the particu
lars.
For those evening school stu
dents who may be interested, the 
swimming pool will be open for 
their use on Thursday evening 
from 7:30 to 9:30 p.m. instead ay 
Wednesday for the duration ay 
the basketball season.
Ray Schwalm, social chairman, 
has announced a program to in
clude several novelty dances in 
the hope of giving the students a 
chance of meeting each other. 
Taking his cue from the highly 
pleasing Thanksgiving dance, Mr. 
Schwalm will attempt to re-create 
the friendly atmosphere that made 
the last dance a success.
The former custom of giving 
flowers to the women which was 
revived at the previous affair will 
again be followed. As usual the 
Black Cat will be open to provide 
refreshment.
There is a need for assistants 
to handle the checking and to aid 
in the Black Cat. In adidtion, help 
is needed to decorate the hall on 
Friday evening, February 25, from 
9:00 p. m. until the job is finished. 
Points toward the Insignia Award 
will be given for this work. In
terested persons should contact 
Mr. Schwalm at C.I.T. Box 256.
Tickets for the dance are avail
able from any Council member or 
from Mr. McKelway in IH132 at 
two dollars per couple. This will 
be the last informal evening school 
function before Lent.
iHvwE0f e)Aw(vC SIN 
i$)mvA$C 0Am M)CEAvCC_vA
11:00 A. M.2:00 P. M. 40c and VP
d6W.LnWsF F.snLiL ,si.Li
- also
duLGsFdn ,si.Li iLGkL,
Bamboo Gardens
3531 FMRBTS STRTTT 
Mk. 7493
3 Hour Dry Cleaning
Raincoats Showerproofed
ckand .rkyevG D'vYan'
CAMPUS CLEANERS
4609 Forbes St.MUseum 1288
K.,
UNDERWOOD
50*84
Flut M. I* tit
ItC 19.07
WsGu- dGGdnDso
Thr eampirtr pruLan.i typrwugtru . wgth gnbmgit t.bmi.tau .nc m.ny athru yr.tmurL th.t m.kr thr "Ch.mpgan . tumiy macrm paut.bir. FgngLhrc gn Layt Furneh-Fu.y .nc chromium. ,Sm.ut e.uuygnF C4UC incluriffdi
-J (
tIN$ lE$$ WTHvyNE$vN FIY
cc esMLGWa dkLn6L 
dWY b-UR

---------------------------------------------------

.ivAtu^r*NMOHAlVOTE
1 always smoke 
Chesterfields because they're 
MILD and they taste good 
Its MY cigarette.
_ _, ............   , . , ...
n r  I I n r n ..ncrrr-k M0RE C0LLEGE STUDENTS SMOKE CHESTERFIELDSMAKE YOU RS THE IVI I L P E R CIGARETTE p t.iu ANY OTHER CIGARETTE-^ unsr kiFFous susvn
\
Thr Bmiirtgn Ba.uc
___________________________________________________________ THT CkRNTGIT TkRTkN________________________________WTDNTSDkY, JkNUkRY 19, 194
ASG Officers
Architectural Student Group 
members elected their new offi
cers last week. They are: Tom 
Madden, president; Arthur Silver, 
vice-president; David Moyer, 
treasurer; and Anita Cole, secre
tary.
Major Dogan
Captain Adam E. Dogan has 
been appointed to the permanent 
rank of Major in the regular 
army. Before entering the army, 
Major Dogan served as an assist
ant professor in the electrical en
gineering department and, upon 
his return from three years of ac
tive service, became an assistant 
professor of military science and 
tactics at CIT.
Military Dept.
By action of the executive com
mittee of the trustees, the de
partment of military science and 
tactics has been made a depart
ment of the College of Engineer
ing and Science, effective Decem
ber, 1948.
Both the Professor of Military 
Science and Tactics and h is 
teaching staff are now members 
of the College of Engineering and 
Science faculty.
Tau Sigma Delta
Tau Sigma Delta, a national 
honorary fraternity in architecture 
and allied arts, has announced the 
admission of five art students from 
the departments of architecture 
and painting and design.
New members, admitted through
Gamma, the Carnegie chapter of 
the national fraternity, are Fran
cis Brandi, Martin Chetlin, John 
Lee, Roger Protas, and John Re
gan.
Newly-elected faculty advisors 
Robert L. Lepper and John K. 
Shear announced the recent ad
mission of Tau Sigma Delta into 
the Association of College Honor 
Societies.
Phi Mu Alpha
Carnegies chapter of Phi Mu 
Alpha Sinfonia, national music 
honorary, has announced a re
cital for January 25 at 8:15 p. m. 
in the exhibition room of the col
lege of Fine Arts. No tickets are 
necessary.
Included in the program are 
performances by three members 
of the Pittsburgh symphony: Ber
nard Goldberg, flutist; Eugene 
Phillips, violist, and Edward Druzinsky, harpist. Also featured is 
pianist Nelson Whitaker, piano 
instructor in the music depart
ment.
DuPont F ellowship
President Roberty Doherty an
nounced last week that CIT is to 
receive a graduate fellowship in 
metallurgy from the DuPont com
pany next April or May. This 
fellowship is the second of its 
kind awarded by the DuPont 
company to an American college.
Departments of physics, chem
istry, and chemical engineering 
have recently received renewals 
of DuPont fellowships.
Math Department
Honorable mention was won by 
the 1948 team of the Carnegie de
partment of mathematics in the 
eighth annual William Lowell 
Putnam mathematical competi
tion. Members of the team are 
David L. Wallace, John F. Nash, 
and Hans Weinberger.
CITs mathematics department 
will also enter a team in the ninth 
annual competition, to be held on 
March 26. It is open to any col
lege undergraduate in the United 
States and Canada.
Applications Taken For 
Summer Employment
Applications for summer work 
will be available in the Dean of 
Mens Office on Tuesday, Janu
ary 25. Students interested in ob
taining work for the summer 
should have the application cards 
completed before February 2(L 
This includes all types of jobs, in
cluding industrial work, sales, 
secretarial, and camp work.
