thecar
TUESDAY, MARCH 18, 1947 
VOL. 40, NO. 19 
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY,: ; FA R TA N
New Series of Radio Programs Summer Employment
\Presents CIT Benefits to City
During the month of April the 
Know Your Pittsburgh broad
casts presented on WCAE 6:30 
every Wednesday wil relate Car
negie Techs contributions to 
Pittsburghs industries and cul
ture.
The first broadcast, on April 2, 
will tell of the contributions of 
Margaret Morrison graduates to 
the city. It will also tell the part 
that MMCC is playing and has 
played in the citys development. 
Miss Edith Winchester, assistant 
director of Margaret Morrison, 
will be in charge of the program.
Dr. H. H. Lowry, head of the 
coal research laboratories, will 
present a broadcast on April 9. He 
and his staff will explain the 
function of the laboratory and its 
significance as well as the pro
gress which they have made in 
certain lines of research. They are 
also going to discuss different 
uses of coal. Dr. Howard wil as
sist Dr. Lowry in presenting the 
program.
The department of drama will 
present the program on April 16. 
Mr. Boetcher said that the plans 
have not as yet been drawn up 
but that he would use drama de
partment students on the boardcast, probably including at least 
one short sketch.
The work of the metals research 
laboratory, for many years a sig
nificant factor in the steel indus
try, wil be the subject of the April
23 broadcast.
Mildred Lawton 
Honored by Fund
In memory of Miss Mildred 
Lawton, curator of the music de
partment, contributions have been 
made by the general faculty and 
individual friends to the Faculty 
Memorial Scholarship Fund.
The Faculty Memorial Scholar
ship Fund is used to help needy 
students in memory of deceased 
faculty members who devoted 
years of faithful service to Car
negie Institute of Technology.
Contributions to this fund are 
not limited to the faculty but 
may be made by anyone wishing 
to do something in memory of a 
teacher or colleague who has 
meant much to him.
The last broadcast, on April 30, 
will be presented by Dr. E. Creutz 
of the physics department assist
ed by Dr. Schoupp of Westinghouse and Dr. Allen of Pitt. They 
will discuss Pittsburghs contri
butions to research in nuclear 
physics, as well as the uses and 
reasons for nuclear research. Dr. 
Schoupp will discuss the accel
erator which he uses at Westinghouse, Dr. Allen will tell of the 
uses of Pitts cyclotron, now being 
used for medical research. Dr. 
Creutz will discuss some of the 
plans for the giant synchro-cyclotron which is going to be built 
here.
King Lear Cast 
Gives Extra Show 
For Student Body
As result of the editorial ap
pearing in last weeks Tartan, the 
following letter was received from 
the head of the drama depart
ment:
I think your editorial in the 
Tartan was a very fair and rea
sonable statement of the problem 
of the distribution of tickets to 
the students for the department 
of drama productions, and I want 
to take this opportunity to com
mend you for your intelligent 
statement.
I am glad to tell you that by 
some elaborate juggling of the 
schedule we have been able to 
add one performance of King Lear 
for which tickets will be distrib
uted to students only. We are fol
lowing the suggestions made in 
your editorial and are requesting 
that the Tartan print the follow
ing notice in its next issue:
 The Department of Drama 
will present a special performance 
of King Lear for students on 
Tuesday, March 25.
 Tickets will be distributed in 
the main office of the College of 
Fine Arts Thursday, March 20, at 
4:30 p.m. Upon the presentation 
of his registration card, each per
son will be given one ticket. 
Yours very truly,
Henry Boettcher
Any student who desires 
summer employment is ad
vised to apply immediately at 
Miss Stewarts office, IH 152.
It is requested that applica
tions be filed as soon as possi
ble.
Pan-Hel Council 
Sponsors Drive 
For Used Clothing
Pan-Hellenic Council, under the 
chairmanship of Sarah Thompson, 
is sponsoring a clothing drive for 
the destitute of Asia and Europe 
from March 17 to March 21. Car
tons to receive the clothing con
tributions of students are in the 
front halls of Skibo, Margaret 
Morrison and Fine Arts.
Any and all articles of cloth
ing are badly needed by stricken 
millionsboth woolens and cot
tons, underclothing as well as 
outer garments, in all sizes. The 
Church World Service Center is 
conducting the national drive, 
continuing the work of UNRRA 
which stopped sending clothing 
on January 1. Contributions go 
to the Center at New Windsor, 
Maryland, and from there to 
authorized agents in Europe and 
Asia to be distributed to the 
needy.
Students are strongly urged to 
support this drive as in indica
tion of Americas good will toward 
countries less fortunate than her
self.
Soapbox Features 
Social Medicine
The question, Should We Have 
Socialized Medicine? will be dis
cussed over the Soapbox of the 
Air, WCAE, at 8:00 Tuesday, 
March 18, at the University club 
auditorium. CIT will have no 
speaker ^on the program this time.
Ann McClellan, PCW senior, 
and Peter Marutik, freshman vet
eran from Duquesne, will uphold 
the affirmative, against Peggy 
McGill, Mt. Mercy freshman, and 
John Dowling, senior veteran 
from Pitt.
Next week, March 25, Carnegie 
and PCW will take the affirmative 
against Duquesne and Mt. Mercy 
on the question, Is Radio Doing 
A Job Job?
The audience must be seated by 
7:45 at all programs.
We Have It, They Need It
We have it; they need it. Lets 
share it.
With this slogan the annual 
World Student Service fund drive 
began yesterday on campus. The 
purpose of the fund is to aid stu
dents in ravaged countries with 
books, food, and the money need
ed to get rehabilitating rest. CITs 
quota is $1500.00a 50-cent con
tribution per student.
Boxes for collection of WSSF 
funds are located in the bookstore 
and near the cash registers in 
Skibo. Personal collection will be 
made during lunch hours until 
Tuesday, March 25, last day of 
the drive.
Thursday noon in Skibo, ex
change students from Europe and 
Asia will describe educational 
conditions in their homelands and 
will tell how funds can aid their* 
people.
Dick Herrman, campus chair
man of the drive, states that this 
year is the worst in the history of 
Europe* that famine and disease 
are keeping poverty stricken stu
dents from study. He and his 
committee ask that each student 
on campus give only 30 cents to 
help young people of their own 
gge in Europe, India, and China.
' W8F Is sponsors'! (ntrnslon?
ally by the YMCA, YWCA, and 
the Student Christian association. 
They collect money here and send 
it to foreign areas for distribution 
to students. These groups are do
ing the on}y world relief work 
aimed directly to needy scholars.
On campus CWCA, YMCA, 
APO, and IRC have combined 
forces to ?pn?!?F t!l? drlYft
Mr. Herrmans chairmanship, Pat 
Connor, chairman of the initiat
ing tea; Helen Grimes, publicity 
chairman; Sally Hutchinson, 
chairman of solicitations; George 
Baur, booth chairman; and Clark 
jSloan, competition chairman, are 
all working hard to put WSSF 
over the $1500 goal. They the
help of aYtryonti
Technical Board Elects 
New Editors and Staff
The 1947-48 staff of the Carnegie Technical was elected at 
a meeting of the Editorial Board held in the Technical office on 
Saturday, March 15.
The Technicals new editor-in-chief is Robert T. Siegel, a 
physics junior and a member of the Technical staff since his 
freshman year. Mr. Siegels position on the Technical staff this
year has been that of flexible copy 
editor.
New Business Manager
The newly elected business 
manager is Milton Perloff, a mem
ber of Tau Delta Phi and for
merly Technical advertising man
ager. Walter Ambrose, president 
of Phi Kappa and sophomore in 
the mechanical-aeronautical de
partment, retained his position 
as managing editor. John Bolton 
of Beta Theta Pi, formerly fixed 
copy editor, was promoted to the 
position of features editor, and 
William Carpenter, also a mem
ber of Beta Theta Pi, was ap
pointed as provisional publicity 
manager.
Business Staff 
The other members in the bus
iness section of the Editorial 
Board are David Mintz, local ad
vertising manager; James Wil
liams, national advertising man
ager; and William P. Cohen, cir
culation manager. Working with 
the features editor will be Marvin 
Gustavson, flexible copy editor, 
and Philip Birnbaum, fixed copy 
editor. In the staff of the man
aging editor, Graham Renberg 
was elected to the position of lay
out editor and Philip Pearlstein 
was reelected as art editor.
Appointed to Mr. Gustavsons 
flexible copy staff were Donald 
Koenig, chief article editor, and 
Robert McKelvey and Richard 
[Continued on page 6]
Robert T. Siegel
S&S Announces 
Poster Contest
A poster contest among the stu
dents of the Melbourne School of 
Advertising Art was announced 
by Scotch and Soda as part of the 
Clubs extensive publicity cam
paign.
The deadline for the expected 
sixty or seventy entries is tomor
row, and in a few days the best 
posters will be selected by a fac
ulty jury consisting of Professors 
Balcomb Greene and Robert Lepper of the P&D department, and 
Professor Lloyd Wening of the 
drama department.
The posters are restricted to a 
fifteen by twenty inch size, and 
will feature Scotch and Soda 
and the name of this years show, 
Rock n Riot! Soon after the 
judging, many of the posters will 
appear on bulletin boards on cam
pus, and two hundred silk-screen
ed cop'es of the winning entries 
will be distributed all over down
town Pittsburgh, Oakland, Squir
rel Hill, and East Liberty.
The Melbourne School of Ad
vertising Art is a professional in
stitute located in the Century 
building downtown. Most of its 
student- sre nion of considerable 
experience, and their entries 
promise to be a valuable addition 
[Continued on page 6]
MM Holds Party
The Senate of Margaret Morri
son Carnegie College will hold its 
annual party for the four classes 
of Margaret Morrison on March 
31 at 7:30 p.m.
It is the custom at this party for 
each class to present skits in a 
competition. The group which 
gives the prize-winning skit will 
be presented with a trophy with 
the name of the class engraved on 
it.
The students, who will meet in 
the Recreation hall at Margaret 
Morrison for the party, will also 
be entertained by a skit presented 
by the faculty. After the skits re
freshments will be served.
Pan-Hel Party
Pan-Hellenic Council will 
sponsor a party for all freshman women at 4 p.m. Wed
nesday, March JO lfl TfcWi
n#u,
UCLA Students 
Answer Question
Does America have opportuni
ties and a chance for a good life 
for peoples of all races and 
creeds?
This much-debated question is 
answered in the affirmative by six 
U.C.L.A. girls, who will present 
their reasons for this belief in the 
Little Theatre on Thursday, 
March 20, at 4:30. Everyone is in
vited to attend.
These girls, sponsored by the 
University Religious Conference, 
have been making a three-month 
tour of the Eastern states, discuss
ing this question. In New York 
and Philadelphia they received 
wide acclaim and spoke before 
capacity audiences.
The girls participating in the 
discussion are Jeanne Farrell, 
Catholic; Marian Hargrave, Prot
estant; Marion Taylor, Hebrew; 
Ernie May Maxie, Negro; Maria 
Elena Ramirez, Mexican-American; and Francis Toy, ChineseAmerican.
Besides C.I.T., the students of 
Pitt, P.C.W., Mt. Mercy, and Du
quesne have been invited to at
tend this meeting.
Alpha Phi Omega Group 
Holds Dinner Meeting
Alpha Phi Omega, national 
honorary fraternity of the Boy 
Scouts of America, will hold the 
first of a series of monthly din
ner meetings at 5:30, Thursday, 
March 20, at the Carnegie Union.
The program for the evening 
will include election of officers 
and plans for future activities, as 
well as a resume of the work 
$V*ring t^e pait ernestw,

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 18, 1947
,he carne9YARTAN
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Telephone: SChenley 4557 
After office hours: Editor SC. 8951; Business Manager, EM. 9424
Publishes weekly during the school year, except holidays and examination periods, by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Jeti&U. ta *7he Zditoi
Asst. Business Managei ___ Sam MosesAdvertising Manager..............Ed Friedmar.Circulation Manager ........... Ivan FaigenHeadline Editor .. Camille McCulloughMake-up Assistant .......... Shirley SeinerAsst. Copy Editor .......... Bill McShaneColumnists .... Jean Knee, Carl Klahr Copy Staff Dale Wright, Harry Silverman
Editor ............................ R. C. Eschenbach
Business Manager .................. Bill Meyers
Managing Editor ........... Audrey Wilkins
News Editor ........................ Tony ArrottPersonnel Manager ...... H. Aaronson
Copy Editor ............................ Bill CohenSports Editor ...................... Pete Cregut
Photographers: Danny Franks (head), Ames Penfield, Bill Benswanger.News Staff: Dons Becker, Bob Cook, Susan Foster, Estelle Mattes.Reporters: Bob Abelson, Fred Johnson. Sema Moskovitz Robert H. Smith.Cub Reporters: Ansile Bricker, Viera Kulamer, Jeanne Fischman, Si Foner, DorothyGerken, Howard Kutner, Aaron Latkin, Bea Patterson, Ange Pollis, Marjorie
Powers, Barry Rowles, Lois Sloan, Midge Teague.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc. College Publishers 
Representatives, 420 Madison Ave., New York City.Entered as second class matter under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in the Act of February 28, 1925, 
authorized October 21, 1918.
Editors Armchair
We wish more students could have been at the Student Coun
cil meeting last Wednesday to hear the discussion about the 
price of Carnival tickets. Members of the Scotch and Soda board 
and of Spring Carnival committee expressed their views on the 
prices to be charged in order that both organizations could 
avoid losing money. Spring Carnival committee wished to charge 
only enough to break even on the dance if every ticket was 
sold, leaving no margin if some of the 1250 tickets were not 
sold. However, Scotch and Soda insisted that they be assured 
a margin of $1600.
Scotch and Soda Club for the Scotch and Soda Cdub
One of the members of the Scotch and Soda board ex
pressed the attitude of the board when he said that Scotch and 
Soda club was primarily interested in making money for the 
club in the interest of past members, present members, and fu
ture members of the Scotch and Soda club, and that the in
terests of the student body as a whole were only .of secondary 
importance.
Four possible courses of action were discussed at the Stu
dent Council meeting. The first was to sell Carnival tickets for 
$7.50, of which Spring Carnival committee would receive $6.00, 
less tax of $1.00, and Scotch and Soda would receive $1.50, less 
tax of $.25. With its $5.00 per ticket the Carnival committee 
would provide name bands for both dances. Scotch and Soda 
would receive 62^e per seat for the 2500 student holding Car
nival tickets, which would leave them almost no profit. 
Production Cost and Club Cost
At a meeting held in Dr. Wardens office on March 7, the S&S 
board kated that their budget provided for expenses of $3800. 
Yet in the Student Council meeting they stated that the club 
cost would be $4700. The difference of $900 is made up of $225 
for keys, an appreciable sum of gifts, a scholarship, and so forth.
Alternative number two was to sell the Carnival tickets for 
$7.50, provide one name band and one local band, and assure 
S&S of at least a $1600 margin.
Alternative number three was to raise the ticket price to 
$7.95 and give the difference to Scotch and Soda, so that they 
could be assured a margin of almost $1600.
Alternative number four was a financial split between Spring 
Carnival and Scotch and Soda: Carnival to sell its tickets for 
$6.00, S&S for $2.40 (for two seats).
Changes Behind the Scenes
After that meeting, the two groups agreed to a price of $8.00 
for tickets, of which S&S would get $2.00. Later, Omicron Delta 
Kappa, senior honorary sponsoring the Carnival, decided that 
they could not be sure of selling 1250 tickets at $8.00. The Car
nival committee then told S&S that the board must accept 62%c 
per seat or relations would be severed.
The two groups have split, and alternative number four 
is the plan they are following. This alternative was the first 
one discarded by Student Council in its consideration of the 
problem.
We feel that both groups have been at fault in their refusal 
to see the others attitude. Both have commendable aims: Spring 
Carnival to give the students as much as possible for their 
money, and Scotch and Soda to build for the future. We are 
sorry that ODK did not agree with Student Council.
World Student Service Fund
And speaking of money, we hope that the students sup
port the solicitation of the World Student Service Fund. The 
Fund organization is asking only fifty cents per student, and 
we feel that every student can afford that much to help col
lege people in other parts of the world who are less fortunate.
\ ou think that as college men and women you are the cream 
of the crop. The whole worl$ could stand some more of that
Double Elections
Dear Sir:
Very soon there will be an allschool election to determine 
whether or not the student body 
feels that Student Council can be 
a more efficient and effective or
ganization if its members are 
elected twice a year, thereby caus
ing only half of its members to 
be replaced at a time. No one who 
is familiar with the Council and 
its functions can logically dispute 
the fact that under the present 
system, when the entire council is 
replaced at once, there is a com
plete breakdown of routine and a 
long tedious period of organizing 
the completely new council. This 
could be eliminated by the pro
posed plan of rotation.
Further, the council is entirely 
too large at the present time. It 
is impossible for a group of thir
ty-three people to be anything but 
cumbersome and inefficient when 
discussing and voting on import
ant business. Regardless of this 
fact, when an attempt was made 
to initiate a plan to reduce the 
size of the council, the proposed 
plan was rejected. It is my opin
ion that the proposed amendment 
which will instigate the much 
needed two-election plan will 
similarly be voted down and re
jected.
But does this make sense?
Yes, it does when the facts are 
considered in another light. There 
is an organization on Campus 
known as the I.A.C. (Inter-Fra
ternity Action Committee). With 
their 600 and some odd backers 
(the number dwindling daily) the 
I.A.C. can control ten offices in 
each election. This they do by 
actually telling each voter exactly 
how to vote. If you remember, a 
man named Hitler, at one time, 
ran an organization on precisely 
the same principle. Now, with the 
increased size of Council, this
Fascist group can control only onethird of the offices, not their usual 
majority. It is because there are 
enough democratic-thinking stu
dents on this campus who are 
willing to sacrifice anything to 
get away from this foul-smelling 
regime, that Council will not be 
reduced and elections will be held 
only once a year.
I think it is time that this I.A.C. 
wakes up and forgets its petty 
politics. They are the cause of a 
serious stumbling-block in school 
administration and are fighting a 
losing battle.
Why not have some real school 
spirit, friendly competition, and 
an efficient, compact Student 
Council? These can be achieved 
only when the I.A.C. opens the 
way.
J. K. OHare.
Nightmare
Bad dream . . . Nightmare!
And that horrible feeling of fall
ing and falling through space. I 
hear an ex G.I.a man who 
fought in Africa and in France, a 
man who just last week swore hed 
die before hed go back to the 
ArmyI hear him say, If we 
dont fight the Russians now, well 
lose a war in ten years. Im 
ready. I hear another boy re
peating that beat-up tired cliche, 
If we fight now maybe there 
wont have to be another war. 
On the radio comes the voice of 
the President of the United States, 
the great peace-loving,. democratic 
America, asking that we send mil
itary experts, and guns, and tanks 
to Greece and Turkey to train 
those little countries in the mass 
production slaughter methods re
cently employed and glorified in 
by Nazi supermen. Before the 
Congress of the United States our 
leaders bring bills asking the re
turn of atomic control to the mili
tary, the retention of draft board 
records in case an emergency
cream.
R, 0. Eachenbach,
March 12, 1947. The meeting was called to order at 4:30 p. m.Those absent were: Miss Lisle: Messrs. Kindi, Kohn, .Stanford, and Tritle. COMMITTEE REPORTS:Points and Keys committee:Miss Knee moved that the following keys be awarded:Gold-jeweled key. .Mary Jane Horridge Tartan co-editorSilver key .......................... Dell MillerWomens Dorm Council Motion carried.Social Committee:Mi. Lee presented the following report on the proposed revision of the Student Council Constitution:
The Constitution of Student Council necessitates changing because of the following proposed amendment, providing Council and the student body vote affirmative and the Executive Board approves.The amendment to the Constitu-" tion is as follows:Article II, Section III shall read: The term of office for one half of the members of Council shall be, unless otherwise noted, from the time of election to Council in the spring until they are succeeded at elections the following spring. The term of office for the other half of the members of Council shall be, unless otherwise noted, from the time of elections in the fall until they are succeeded the following fall.In order to be consistent with the amendment, other changes are:Insert in Article II, Section I (c) following the words  ... as specified in. the words, Article IT. Section III, and. The article will then read,  ... as specified in Article II. Section III. and in the By-Laws of Student Council.
Insert in Article II, Section II (e> following the words  . . . Section I, Section II, the words, and in determining the number of representatives to be elected under Article II, Section III. The article will then read,  . . . Section I, Section II, and in determining the number of representatives to be elected under Article II, Section III. and in determining a quorum, etc.
Change Article II, Section IV (b) to read as follows:
The President of Council shall be elected from any school and any class bv the combined old and new Councils. The representative elected President shall thereafter vote only in case of a tie. The runner up in t*'> election shall be Vice-President. To be eligible to hold the office of President or Vice-President, a representative must have served as a representative for one semester on Council immediately preceding election to President or Vice-President.Change Article II, Section IV (c) to read as follows:The Secretary shall be elected in the spring by the old Council from the assistants of that year two weeks before the general elections.In Article II, Section V (a) delete until the new Council organizes in the spring and add in its place, during his term in office as President. The article will then read, "... be responsible for all records of the Council during hi* term in office as President.'*
The following ch* oeutryin th* Student Ci iws inprdf? tfwit &y t wjfh
the proposed amendment to the Constitution :Revise Article I, Section 5 of the Bylaws to read:
The election to Council of all voting and non-voting representatives shall be elected in the spring on a date to be set by Council to serve until Council elections are held the following spring. The number to be elected in the spring shall be the incumbent members of Council divided by two, jexcept as noted in Article II, Section II (b) of the Council Constitution. The other half of the Council members to be elected or part thereof according to the odd or even number of Council members to be succeeded, shall be elected in the fall at a date to be set by Council elections the following fall.Under Article II, Section I, Part 1: Delete fall term and add Each semester; the article will then read, at the beginning of each semester, etc.The report of the Election Committee was tabled for action at the next meeting.OLD BUSINESS:There was no old business to be considered.NEW BUSINESS:Mr. Dismukes moved that Student Council supports the showing of the two Navy films, Operations Crossroads, and To the Shores of Iwo Jima, on campus.Motion carried.Mr. Garner read a letter from Mr. Eugene F. Lucas requesting permission for the Mens Dorm Council, Citcom, and Inter-Fraternity to solicit funds for the Stephen Memorial Fund scholarships from the students.Mr. Larsen moved that we approve this request.Motion carried.Mr. Farrahy moved that the following revision be made to the Student Council Constitution Bylaws:Article I, Section 8, Part 7: Rules for Counting Ballots and determining the results.(1) Unchanged.(2) A list of the candidates shall be made according to their position on the ballot.(3) The ballots shall be counted and the number of first place votes received by each candidate placed under his name. The ballots shall then be resorted according to second place votes, counted and tabulated. And so on until all votes from first to last place
arises so suddenly that the Con
gress has no time to enact a new 
military service law, the cessa
tion of economic aid to Russia. 
Russian ambassadors have under
standably been recalled from Brit
ain, America, and France. The 
man in the street says, If the 
struggle between east and west 
comes, brother, Im still for the 
Great American Dreams. No one 
mentions the UN.
If this is true, this nightmare, 
it means you and I. It means that 
our leaders are taking us again 
into War. It means that we will 
be forced again to defendwhat? 
The Great American Dream? 
Freedom for all? Freedom for the 
Chinese? In China we are sup
porting an undemocratic govern
ment not wanted by the majority 
of the people. Freedom for 
Greece? Were supporting an un
democratic government there 
headed by ex-Nazi leaders. Free
dom for citizens of the United 
States? Already we are beginning 
to look at one another and ask 
ourselves if our best friends have 
secret, subversive, traitorous 
communistic ideas. Soon mobs 
will be throwing rocks through 
our neighbors windows, because 
he went to a meeting of the So
cialist party once, or by mistake 
made a disparaging remark about 
Mr. Truman. Then the police will 
come and drag him away to a con
centration camp. Mien will be 
fighting in the Balkans and in the 
cold north of Poland. Thats you, 
son! If we win the war, millions 
of men will be needed to police 
the wide lands of the east for at 
least fifty years. Thats you.
Some of you think you want 
war again. Problems of civilian 
life are dull and prosaic. Theyre 
not exciting and you have to think 
for yourselves. Issues arent clearcut anymore. The simplicity of 
[Continued on page 4]
Student Council.. .
have been assigned the proper candidate.
(4)
(5)
The number of first place votes received by each candidate shall be multiplied by a credit factor to be determined by the number of candidates to be elected, (e.g., if twenty members are to be elected, the first place votes shall receive twenty credits each.) The result of this multiplication shall be recorded under the candidates name next to the figure representing his first place votes.The number of second place votes received by each candidate shall be multiplied by a credit factor one less than that used to determine first place credits, and so on until the last place votes received by each candidate have been assigned a credit factor of one (1) and tabulated, (e.g., if twenty members are to be elected, the first place votes shall receive twenty credits each, the second place votes shall receive nineteen credits each . . . and the twentieth place votes shall receive one credit each.)The results of these tabulations shall be added and the total number of credits received by each candidate recorded.The candidates having the highest number of credits shall be declared elected, (e.g., if twentymembers are to be elected, thetwenty having the highest credit total shall be declared elected.) 
This proposed revision was tabled for action at the next meeting.Mr. Johnson moved that we approve the constitution of the Varsity C club. Motion carried.Miss Cook moved that we recommend to the Spring Carnival committee that the price of the Spring Carnival ticketsbe raised to $7.95; out of this amountScotch and Soda will receive $1.95 and Spring Carnival $6.Mr. Farrahy moved that we cancel the discussion on Miss Cooks motion.Motion carried.Miss Cook repeated her motion. Motion carried.Mr. Christenson moved that Scotch and Soda be required to submit a budget within the next two weeks to Student Council.Motion carried.The meeting adjourned at 6:15 p. m. 
Respectfully submitted,
JEAN MARIE PRICE,Secretary.
(6)
(7)
THE CHURCH OF THE REDEEMER
(Episcopal)
5700 Forbes St., Pittsburgh, Pa.Sunday Services
Holy Communion-8 A.M.; Morning Prayer-11 A.M.
CANTERBURY CLUB Luncheons as usual at Carnegie Inn 
every Thursday, 11:301:30.
REV. HUGH S. CLARK, Chaplain.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MARCH 18, 1947THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
Sororities Present Queen Candidates
Campaigning Well Underway; 
Elections To Be March 25
day, March 25, to decide by bal
lot the lucky seven. The Queen 
will be named early in April 
and publicly honored at Spring 
Carnival.
Ballot boxes will be busy from 
11:30 to 1:30 in Margaret Mor
rison, Fine Arts, and Administra
tion. Registration cards will be 
required of the voters. The bal
lot will be preferential and must 
be cast with exactly seven can
didates named. Ballots not pro
perly or completely filled out 
will be discarded as will those 
naming Ginger or any other unof
ficial candidate.
The prospective queens, their 
sponsors, their activities, and their 
factors all appear her for the vot
ers consideration. Beauty comes 
first, but popularity, personality, 
activities, and brains are also to 
be taken into account.
Delta Delta DeltaJune Hawk
Spring Carnival court1944 
Science club 
Glee club 
Thistle court 
Factor: 3.28
Delta GammaLou Emmel
Spring Carnival committee 
Student Council 
Tartan 
Womens Guild 
Factor: 2.40
Here it is spring, and the gaiety 
of the season is heralded by the 
sudden appearance of eighteen 
beautiful young sorority girls all 
vying for the right to reign over 
Skiboland during the big Spring 
Carnival celebration the first week 
in May.
Seven sororities and one inde
pendent group have nominated 
eighteen girls from which the 
student will pick the seven love
liest. One of these seven will be 
chosen by a group -of experienced 
judges as Queen of Spring Carni
val. The remaining six will be 
the Queens Court of Honor.
The five judges have been se
lected from three Pittsburgh de
partment stores and from the fac
ulty. Their names will be an
nounced later.
Students from all three colleges 
will go to the polls next Tues
Chi OmegaMarie Falkenhagen
Womens Guild 
Cwens 
Sec., Chi Omega 
Factor: 3.40
Chi OmegaJane Grim
Newman club 
Pan-Hellenic council 
W.A.A.
Factor: 3.10
Chi OmegaDorothy Hallas
Student Council 
Sigma Alpha Iota 
Glee Club 
Vice-pres., Chi Omega 
Factor: 3.20
Kappa Alpha ThetaM. Harris
Pres., Mortar Board 
Pres., freshman dorm 
Pres,, Cwens 
Pan-Hellenic council 
Factor: 2.90
Sigma KappaM. Burkhardt
Home Ec club 
Film Arts 
Scotch & Soda club 
Factor: 3.37
Kappa Kappa GammaC. Cdok 
Form magazine 
Beaux Arts society 
Student Council 
Scotch & Soda club
Dorm StudentsJoanne Hipp
Editor, Dorm Bagpiper 
Pres., Womens Dorm council 
Pres., freshman dormitory 
Vice-pres., Kappa Alpha Theta 
Factor. 2.53
Alpha Epsilon PhiHelen Miller
Mortar Board 
Managing editor, Scottie 
Vice-pres., MMCC Senate 
Vice-pres., Alpha Epsilon Phi
Kappa Alpha ThetaM. Horridge
Pres., Kappa Alpha Theta 
Co-editor, Tartan 
Sec.-Treas., Pi Delta Epsilon 
Sec., MMCC Senate 
Factor: 2:89
Kappa Kappa GammaB. Kane
Scottie 
Thistle 
Home Ec club 
Scotch & Soda club 
Factor: 2.40
Kappa Kappa GammaM. Keefer
Pres., Kappa. Kappa Gamma 
Womens editor, Scottie 
Mortar Board 
Pi Delta Epsilon 
Factor: 2.80
Delta GammaDell Miller
Womens Dorm council 
CWCA 
Factor: 2.38
Sigma KappaM. Minnemeyer Kappa Alpha ThetaP. Petrikin Delta GammaAndy Schaffer Delta Delta Delta-J. Streicker
Pres., Mellon hall 
Dorm council 
W.A.A. 
Thistle 
Factor: 2.2
Pres., Forbes hall 
Student Council 
Thistle court 
Scotch & Soda club 
Factor: 2.70
Home Ec club 
CWCA 
Thistle court 
Womens Guild 
Factor: 2.46
Pres., Delta Delta Delta 
Mortar Board 
Interhonorary council 
Womens Dorm council 
Factor: 2.68

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 18, 1047
On Stage
By Marty Dorff
In fairness to the drama depart
ment I must preface this review 
by an admission that I have had 
no technical training in drama. I 
look upon it with the unsophis
ticated eye of the average play
goer. But perhaps this will not be 
too objectionable, for the theater 
is not an esoteric art; part of its 
vitality is the appeal it makes to 
average people.
The drama department deserves 
much credit for tackling King 
Lear, which surely must be among 
the most difficult plays in their 
repertoire; several notable critics 
have even asserted that it is unstageable. Very few of those who 
see the current production would 
agree, so great is its emotional 
impact.
Title Role Difficult
The title role is of fearful dif
ficulty. Lear is on stage most of 
the time, during which he must 
display greatly varying emotions, 
sustain a graihial passage to in
sanity, and yet remain kingly all 
the while. Mitchell Agruss gives 
a finished and consistently moving 
portrayal of the role; he is par
ticularly successful in projecting 
the pathos of the old man by 
word, gesture, and carriage. That 
he is not every inch a king is 
perhaps due to limitations of 
physical stature and voice. Al
though Williams Myers is much 
more uneven in the role, his bear
ing and voice are truly regal. His 
performance attains a shattering 
intensity in his great rage; his 
later scenes are not quite as suc
cessful.
Supporting Cast Impressive
Many of the supporting roles 
are also filled impressively. George 
Woods portrayal of Gloucester as 
a rather foolish old man is espe
cially notable, as is Carl Betzs 
dashing Edmund. Louis Edmonds 
as Edgar and James Schmitt as 
the fool deserve special praise for 
their handling of very difficult 
parts. Nicholas Handgis is poorly 
cast as Kent; the part demands a 
man of greater size to bring out 
the essential dignity of the duke.
I was not able to see all of the 
women, but those I did see, Ruth 
Guberman and Ellen Hovde as 
Goneril, and Nancy Wickwire as 
Regan, are thoroughly hateful. 
The latter, by skillful use of voice, 
makes herself as obnoxious as 
anyone could possibly desire., Sallyann Rosenberg is unconvincing 
as Cordelia, particularly in the 
scene of the meeting with Lear, 
which accordingly falls flat. Per
haps it is not entirely her fault, 
for Cordelia is not a very sym
pathetic character even in the 
play, in spite of her devotion to 
her father.
Staging Satisfactory
The staging itself is quite satis
factory. The scenery is well fit
ted to the mood of the action, and 
changes of scene are made rapid
ly and smoothly by the device of 
alternating a scene before the cur
tain with one on full stage. Sev
eral of the stage pictures are high
ly effective: Lears defiance of the 
storm, the scene on the heath, and 
the final tableau are especially so.
The effect of the storm scene, 
however, would have been height
ened somewhat by lightning in 
the background.
The costumes are sumptuous, 
Gcnerils gray costume and Ed
munds purple and gold one stand 
out, but all of them, even those 
of the soldiers, are distinctive and 
colorful. Since Lear is essentially 
a timeless play, Director Payne 
has chosen to mount it in Eliza
bethan dress to contrast the fierce 
passions of its principals with the 
elegance of the court. My person
al predilection is in favor of the 
medieval British costuming, which 
for me heightens the starkness 
and majesty of the play, but there 
is no doubt that Mr. Paynes set
ting underscores the conflicting 
passions.
In short the play is a memor
able experience. The department 
is to be congratulated for present
ing a challenging play, which 
might well have daunted a veter
an professional company.
WCIT Announces 
Record Contest
Hey - ba - ba - re - ba  Melonooney - riff - raff wham-andareet-reet! TranslationWCIT an
nounces a jazz program contest!
Techites will be brushing up 
on musical vernacular, for begin
ning tomorrow night and contin
uing every ensuing Wednesday 
evening at 7:30, the college radio 
station is going to present a free 
record to the first student who 
answers the question about the 
Mystery Record, played during 
the regular Jazz Program. The 
prize will generally be the record 
about which the query is made 
except when replacements are 
not obtainable.
Since the answer will usually 
require the name of the instru
mental soloist, and the basis for 
the winners decision, a typical 
entry might read, Slam Stewart 
played the bass solo because no 
one else pounds bass with the 
Benny Goodman Sextet. With 
box tops not being required, an 
investment of a penny post card 
can yield a dividend in the form 
of a shiny new record.
This week WCIT introduces a 
new drama department show as 
part of its policy of providing a 
diversified repertoire. Beginning 
Friday, two new all-student 
drama programs will be presented 
each week.
Inaugurating this series of fea
tures at 7:30 Friday will be H. G. 
Wells comedy, The Truth About 
Pycraft, adapted for radio broad
cast by Albert Heschong and to 
be produced by Williams Gehres. 
Another five-minute comedy, 
Even Exchange, produced by Mar
jorie Duncan, will follow at 7:45.
As a special feature of this 
weeks entertainment, the station 
will present the entire Mens Glee 
club on Thursday and the Mens 
Glee club quartet on Friday and 
again the following Monday. The 
Mens and Womens Glee clubs 
[Continued on page 7]
Passover Seder
Temple Sinai is making 
provisions for a Passover 
Seder on Friday evening, 
April 4. The dinner and servservice will begin at 6:30 p.m. 
at the Church of the Redeem
er, 5700 Forbes Street.
All interested persons 
should call at Dean Yons of
fice to sign up for reserva
tions.
Letter
[Continued from page 2] 
war looks good. Look at it close
ly. This time might mean your 
whole lifetime and that of your 
son. Do you really want it again?
Some of you believe that war 
between capitalism and commun
ism is inevitable. You think that 
if its going to come, it had better 
come now while we have the 
bomb and Russia doesnt. You 
think we should fight while we 
can win. But can we win? Did 
Hitler win simply because he be
gan the struggle with superior 
arms? Could Hitler, with all his 
strength of sword and printing 
press force the people of half the 
world to give up their basic 
ideals? You were all telling each 
other, while we were fighting the 
Nazis, that war can solve no 
world problem. Do you think that 
Americans are supermen and that 
no merely human law applies to 
us?
Well and if we dont want 
war, you say, what can we do? 
Are we not trapped by our gov
ernment. Is it not already too 
late? No, it is not quite too late. 
If we turn now to international 
and not national world govern
ment, if we strengthen ihe UN and 
turn inter-country disputes and 
problems over to it, we may yet 
save human civilization. If we all, 
you and I, stop thinking of petty 
national interests, if we forget 
national pride, we may yet live 
out our normal lives length with
out war.
And what do I have to do with 
the messes the boys in Washington 
cook up? you ask? Just this! If 
enough of the small Is write to 
President Truman and to their 
congressmen asking for a world 
government, demanding that the 
Greek problem and the Chinese 
problem and all the other prob
lems be solved by United Nations 
action; and stating this, in the 
world as it is today, our Presi
dent and our country no longer 
have the right to take unilateral 
action, the Great American may 
become not a United States night
mare, but the great world reality 
of peace.
Remembernothing is hopeless 
or impossible until we, by our in
action make it so.
Clara Herron
SKIBO
From our vantage point in the 
Skibo woodwork we have been 
able to overhear the following:
Marty Miller and Trudy Epstein 
have been seeing too much of 
each other lately . . . Is he after 
her money or her body? . . . 
Bridge Expert Carlo Martino and 
partner Cathy Fischer won a 
bridge prize due to the fact that 
Shoenberger was playing on their 
side; he was down five on a five 
bid, doubled, redoubled and vul
nerable . . . Bennard Perlman 
has become involved in a grow
ing business, fixing up frat bros 
with date bait.
Certain Delta Gams and Tom 
Kirby, too, wont be able to sleep 
nights thinking the bright new 
47 Ford they sold Scotty Yurchison^for 50c. Seems Scotty bought 
a ticket in a Delta Gamma alumni 
raffle and came up with the win
ning ticket. It was one of 45 
tickets told at Tech and 10,000 
sold in Washington, so Scotty now 
has a trip in his hand to pick up 
his prize.
Despite rumors to the contrary, 
Jay Maratta is still in full pos
session of his pin ... * Dorm 
men are getting department store 
service through the efforts of 
Doug Wilde . . .Les Engle is go
ing to South America?
One of the
Professor Joseph B. Rosenbach, 
assistant head "of the mathematics 
department, doesnt wear spurred 
boots or tote pistols at his belt, 
but he is nevertheless a son of 
the Old West, where men were 
men, and cattle barons held their 
sway. For, although he was born
in New York City, his family 
moved to Albuquerque, New 
Mexico, when he was five years 
old. It was still a territory in 
those days; there was a saloon on 
every corner, several more in be
tween, and all singing cowboys 
were promptly hanged.
Active in Sports
Prof. Rosenbach went through 
secondary school in Albuquerque, 
then attended Brooklyn Polytech
nic Institute and the Universities 
of New Mexico, Colorado, and Il
linois. At college he played var
sity basketball and was 128-pound 
boxing champion in addition to his 
journalistic activities. After grad
uating first in his class, he taught 
at New Mexico and Illinois for 
several years before coming to 
CIT in 1920.
The years since then have made 
him one of the most beloved and 
respected figures on the campus. 
Word is quickly passed around 
among the freshmen that those 
who can get Professor Rosenbach 
will have no trouble with their 
math, at any rate. In these days of 
decreasing interest in pedagogy 
at universities, his success as a 
teacher is really remarkable. It 
is due to a boundless enthusiasm 
for his subect, an enthusiasm 
which is always tempered with 
patience and understanding and 
yet infects all those it touches. It 
is characteristic of him that on 
one occasion he stayed so late 
helping three of his puzzled stu
dents that he had to call his wife
SCRAPS
That strawberry shortcake is 
Knot the only pleasant aspect 
of Ed Meyers Sunday afternoon 
dates in Coraopolis . . . Murray 
Slone, Randy Pakula, and Mai 
Festenstein, all Beta Sig alumni, 
were visiting last week . . . Dick 
Stanley finally relocated his der
bynow hes looking for a cane.
Why didnt George Fortney go 
to Philadelphia? . . . After years 
and years of wreaking nothing 
but evil and chaos, we have finally 
done a good deed. Through our ef
forts Sally had mercy on Logan 
and he is on his way to becoming 
a happily readjusted engineer.
Wishnick is going to Europe 
this summer. Is it women? . . .
[Continued on page 7]
Profs
to inform her that he would not 
be home for dinner.
Does Much on Campus
Because of his furious energy, 
Professor Rosenbach is embroil
ed in scores of activities. His of
fice looks like the Baths of Caracalla on a Roman holiday, and he 
has to carry around a personal 
filing system in his pockets. In 
addition to his main job as assist
ant department head, he is a 
member of the education commit
tee of ZBT, his social fraternity, 
past president of the CIT chap
ters of Sigma Xi and Phi Kappa 
Phi, faculty advisor and honorary 
member of Beta Sigma Rho, sec
retary of the social relations com
mittee, and member of the basic 
course committee, which is cor
relating freshman and sophomore 
courses with each other and with 
higher undergraduate courses. 
But his pride and joy is the Math
ematics club, from which the 
teams that represent CIT in the 
William Lowell Putnam mathe
matics competition are chosen. 
He is justly proud of Techs out
standing record in the competi
tion; last year Tech placed 
fourth among the many competit
ors.
Has Two Sons
When asked about his family, he 
beamed. He met his wife, the for
mer Miss Florence Simon, at the 
Silver Jubilee meeting of ZBT in 
Cleveland. In fact he was intro
duced by her brother, who is his 
fraternity brother. The Rosenbachs have two sons, aged seven
teen and fifteen, both of whom 
share their fathers interest in 
mathematics, science, and ath
letics. Loren, the elder, can even 
beat his father at golf some
times, said the latter with pater
nal pride. His chief diversions, 
outside of athletics, are travel and 
music.
Professor Rosenbach is wellknown nationally as a writer of 
mathematics texts. He has co
authored eight books, one of 
which, the algebra text familiar 
to every Tech engineering stu
dent, has been adopted by over 
350 schools. This puts it among 
the three most widely used col
lege algebras in the country. At 
present he is writing a text on 
theory of equations, determinants, 
and matrices and another on 
differential equations, which he 
hopes to finish this summer, his 
first vacation in four years.
Full of Enthusiasm
He is full of enthusiasm for the 
plans of the mathematics depart
ment, which during the past few 
years has begun to assume the 
proportions of a Colossus. Mjany 
new men have been brought in, 
the library is being stocked with 
mathematical text and journals, 
and all types of research are go
ing on. The department even has 
brand new offices, complemented 
with charming and very pretty 
secretaries. Yes, but you dont 
have a mathematics laboratory, 
said Dr. T. L. Smith, former Tech 
professor, who was taking a va
cation from his duties as Chief 
Engineer of the Supersonic Wind 
Tunnels laboratory at Aberdeen 
Proving Ground, and who had just 
walked in. Were getting one 
soon. The machines are on order, 
was the prompt rejoinder.
But in the midst of all his fur
ious activity, Professor Rosenbach 
always has time for the lowliest 
freshman and a kind word for all. 
That must be the reason for the 
affection which all who know him 
hold for him. In the words of the 
Professor himself, You know 
what I mean.
WCIT SCHEDULE -Week of March 18-25
I TimeTues.Wed.Thurs.Fri.Mon.
7:30 I a. m.TheMorningClambake
TheMorningClambake
TheMorningClambake
TheMorningClambake
TheMorningClambake
1 8:00 ! a- mi
SignOff
SignOffSignOffSignOffSignOff
I 7:00Campus News and Music
Campus News and Music
Campus News and Music
Campus News and Music
Campus News andMusic
777:15 I p. m.
Its A Great Big Wonderful World
CampusMemoriesHeddaHopeless
Mens GleeClubQuartetSportsRoundup
1 7:30Campus
Round
Table
JazzMensDrama
Mens Glee Club Quartet
7:45 p. m.
ProgramGlee ClubShowTech Hit Parade
8:00 p. m.The ClassicHour
The Classic HourThe Classic HourThe Classic HourThe Classic Hour
9:00SignOffSFSFSignOff
An Ideal Place for Evening Snacks
The College Spoon
CORNER CRAIG and FORBES
HAMBURGS AND HOT DOGS 
OUR SPECIALTY

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MARCH 18, 1947THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
Tech Sports Scope
By Pete Cregut
The one blemish on what has been very successful intramural 
season, has been the officiating. Arguments have been the usual 
thing all season long. The blame cant fall entirely on the shoulders 
jf the players, because this crying and moaning cannot be attributed 
|to any one team, but instead is widespread. It seems logical, then, 
that there must be a basis for this dissatisfaction.
This situation is not something new that has just arisen this 
rear. As far bask as can be remembered there have been deficiencies 
|n the quality of the refereeing. Perhaps it is because of this that 
lothing has been done. If so, it is about time there was a change.
The basketball games have been dominated in large part by a 
slow whistle, an inability on the
Splits Win Title; 
S.A.E.s Unbeaten
What was expected to be an ex
citing match failed to materialize 
last Saturday when the bowling 
playoff was rolled for campus 
laurels. In what was probably the 
poorest performance that the 
Splits, A.S.C.E. and Betas gave 
all season, the Splits won the 
bowling'crown with a three game 
score of 2342 pins. This was 118 
pins better than A.S.C.E.s score 
of 2225, while the Betas could get 
only 2085 pins to finish a poor 
third.
S.A.E.s Win Twice
Last week was a big week for 
the undefeated S.A.E. cagers as 
they added two more victories to 
their record to hold undisputed 
possession of the American 
League top spot with a record of 
six wins and no losses. S.A.E.s 
victims this week were the Beta
jart of the official to make a quick 
lecision and a refusal to admit 
Ithat a play was missed and call a 
Ijump ball. At first an attempt was 
I made to use only one referee but 
I later it was realized that two were 
(necessary to cover the game well. 
The addition of the second man 
was a step in the right direction
I but it is not enough. The next 
l step is torf get somebody that 
knows something about referee
ing. This is by no means meant 
as a blanket condemnation, for 
there are some good men work
ing the games. But unfortunately, 
they are in the minority.
There is no denying that it is 
a tough job. It requires some spec
ial skill. Why then does the pick
ing of officials have to be shroud
ed in secrecy? Lets publish a call 
for referees, announce how much 
will be paid and how much time 
is required. In that way many 
more fellows will offer their serv
ices and a method of selection can 
be set up.
As hard as it may be to believe, 
the administration has finally lin
ed up behind a plan to do some
thing about the sad football situa
tion. The plan that was mention
ed in this column last week to
bring some athletes to Tech is 
gathering campus support and 
rumor has it that Dr. Warden has 
expressed a willingness to co-op
erate. It looks as though some
thing may finally be done about 
[Continued on page 7]
EXPECT TOUCHDOWNS EXT FALL ? O
THERE IS * *
SOMETHING 
YOU 
TO
Sigs 36-24, and F.P.H.A. 30-21.
At the same time in the Federal 
League, T.X. won their fifth vic
tory against no defeats by beat
ing Citcom 39-25.
Kappa Sigs Beat T.N.T.
A determined Kappa Sig five 
jumped off to a fast lead early in 
their game against T.N.T. and re
fused to be overcomed in the sec
ond half as they went on to win 
21-17. By hurdling T.N.T. after 
the tough game they had to play 
last week against the Betas, the 
Kappa Sigs can justly claim the 
top honors in the National League 
if they win their next two games 
against Kilroy and Phi Kaps. 
Results of Other Games
In the American: Hot Rock 37 
Hot Shots 21, D.U. 61'T.X. B. 
19, Beta Sigs 25Emanons 41, 
Hot Rocks 51T.X.B. 34, D.U. 27 
F. P. H. A. 25, Emanon 42Hot 
Shots 34.
In the National League; Phi 
Kaps 54A.S.C.E. 27, Betas 33 
Kilroy 22, Delts 39Tau Delts 26.
In the Federal League: A.T.O. 
35Beta B 39, Dorm Combine 34 
Grecian Tide 35, PiKA 46 
Kappa Sigs B 25.
Lettermens Club Reactivates; 
Groomes Elected President
After a period of dormancy that started with the beginning of 
the war, the Varsity C club is once again badk in operation. With the 
approval of its constitution at last weeks Student Council meeting, 
the club is ready to regain its former popularity.
At the present time, membership in the organization is open to 
all students who have earned a letter in any one of the three major 
sports, these being football, basketball and track, and the captains and
co-captains of the minor sports, 
rpi | o This is only a temporary i|es;ricra(*K tion however, and in May all let
ter holders will be eligible for 
O - O admission.
TUESDUA At a recent election of officers,
the following men were elected: Carnegie Techs track team president  C. B. Groomes, vice
opened its season last Monday presidentDick De Muesy, secywhen Coach Guy Halferty began treas.Ed Franco. The dues for
workouts for his new squad in the the organization will be $2.50 per
gym. Approximately forty can- sen\ester.
didates have reported for prac- " ... . , ,
tice to date, a weak turnout when , The pur?ose of Jhe clutb W11 be compared to last years total of Promote greater interest inseventy athletics among the students and
However, a good deal of talent the f+aculty- Th+e contention is that
has returned from last years sPrtl^ events do not receive
squad. This list includes Skip in enou^ publicity, the Tartan sport
the pole vault, Jack Riehl in the Pae beinS the only medium at
high jump, Stan Kohn in the the Present time,
broad jump, Bob Kindi in the Meetings will be held every two
quarter, sprinters Ernie Cassler weeks, the next meeting being 
and Herm Hollander, Ivor Davies Tuesday, Mlarch 29 at 12:30 in the
in the half and Bounding Bill Black Cat. All men eligible for
Beamer in the mile. Captain of the club are urged to attend.
last seasons track and cross- -----------------------------
country teams, Bill has become m can fae done abQut u There
one of the districts top distanceis a scarcity of field events men.men and should provide many a To date b t ^ candidates have
thrill for the spectators this year. sjgnedup for the shotput, discus Leading contenders for the two- ancj javelin events combined,
mile event are Gene Cockrell and Coach Halferty has stated that
Paul Rotzler, freshman and sen- is too early to comment about
ior sensations, respectively, of last the teams prospects, but his freseasons cross-country team. quent use of the crying towel
The present outlook shows one would seem to indicate that Tech
weakness that may hamper the will again have a better than avthin-clads all season unless some- erage squad.
let others beat
You dont go for those wild cigarette claims, 
do you? Promising you health, wealth and social pres
tige if you smoke Brand X?
Lets talk turkey. You smoke for just one reason 
pleasure. Well, pleasure, and pleasure alone, is what 
Old Gold is designed to give you.
Theres our nearly two hundred years of fine to
bacco experience behind that design. And a wealth 
of the worlds best tobaccos. And finicky care at 
every step, to make Old Golds just flawless.
And, m-m-m, do Old Golds taste like it! Mellow 
and rich. Fragrant. Flavor thats pure joy to your 
taste buds. Youll go for Old Golds, friend. Theyre 
your cigarette!
I

---------------------------------------------------

6THE CBNEOIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 18, 1947
The Sounding Board
Nick Reed and Bob Johnson
In discussing the very perti
nent problem of student morale, 
with your reporters last week, Dr. 
Doherty, president of CIT, de
clared that he was eager to hear 
the students viewpoint and to do
all he can to help on any and all 
such problems.
Assuming that the Administra
tion is actively interested in pro
moting a forward-looking school 
spirit and a high level of student 
morale, we interviewed the man 
who, after five years as Dean of 
the School of Engineering at Yale, 
came to the Presidents chair here 
in 1936.
The only error in our assump
tion was that we underestimated 
the extent to which that interest 
extends. What suggestions do 
you have for improving student 
understanding of my interest in 
them? was a question put to us 
several times during the inter
view.
Problems Discussed Monthly
To our surprise we discovered 
that there exists a Student Con
ference committee which meets 
with Dr. Doherty at least once a 
month to discuss various problems 
confronting the students. The 
committee, composed of twelve or 
more campus leaders, is charged 
with the task of relaying to their 
fellow students information and 
policies brought up at these meet
ings.
At least as important, in the
EXPERT REPAIRS
RADIOS, PHONOGRAPHS. 
APPLIANCES
Sales and Service
LEWIS RADIO 
ELECTRIC CO.
IRS OAKLAND AVE. MA. 4211
Bring Your Radio Problems 
To Us
tt TEARS EXPERIENCE
At Your
Let's go to
ISALY'S
Milk Shakes 
Big Ice Cream Cones 
Klondikes 
Tasty Lunches
Three Stores in the Collere 
District
5808 Forbes Strict, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Ftrfcts Striti Oakland
Main Plant:
3380 Bialevari of tb< Allies
eyes of Dr. Doherty, is the op
portunity that the members of 
this committee have to present 
their problems and ideas to the 
President. Though not specifically 
elected by the student body for
that purpose, the Committee has 
the responsibility of representing 
their thirty-five hundred Tartan 
classmates at these meetings.
Asked if he thought that there 
had been a decline in school spirit 
in the past few years, President 
^ Doherty replied, Ive received 
the impression from the students 
with whom Ive talked that our 
student body is abnormal in a 
number of ways, in a number of 
wonderful ways. For one thing,
Poster Contest
[Continued from page 2]
to Scotch and Sodas publicity
campaign.
Scotch and Sodas other depart
ments' continued their full scale 
preparation for the forthcoming 
production of Rock n Riot. The 
production staff completed their 
prelirriinary plans and drew up a 
budget after several long confer
ences with director Lawrence 
Carra and technical advisors Bess 
and George Kimberly. The re
hearsals of the dancing and sing
ing choruses were increased to 
several meetings each week, and 
the orchestra, temporarily handi
capped by a shortage of string in
struments, will continue its ses
sions tonight at 7:00 in the Ex
hibition room, Fine Arts. Any one 
playing violin, viola, cello, or bass 
is urged to join the orchestra at 
that time.
there is evidence of a seriousness 
of purpose that we didnt have 
before the war. Being so eager to 
do a good job in studies detracts 
from those things which normally 
go to make up school spirit. That 
is probably true on all campuses 
today.
Agrees With Overend
Dr. Doherty repeated Mr. Over
ends remarks of last week con
cerning the football situation. 
There isnt enough time in an 
engineering schedule to provide 
the practice necessary to build a 
big team. Tech men, it must be 
realized, carry several more se
mester hours than do liberal arts 
students in other schools. Second
ly, we simply cannot afford the 
large amount of money that bigtime football costs. As long as our 
[Continued on page 8]
Technical Election
[Continued from page 1]
Cuthosky, article editors. On Mr. 
Birnbaums fixed copy staff are 
John Ewart, exchange editor; Da
vid Lide, book review editor; Da
vid Wallace, Techsperts editor; 
and Edward von Halle, article ed
itor. Herman John was appoint
ed as article editor and assigned, 
as a special assistant to Mr. Bol
ton. The members of the features 
stafl are Bruce Barrow, Raymond 
Chappel, Richard Eschenbach, 
Vernon Neubert, and J^ale Wright. 
Managing- Editors Staff Expanded 
The staff of the managing edi
tor has been increased to cope 
with the recent expansion of the. 
Technical, with Sherman Cohen 
being appointed assistant man
aging editor; William Bourke, cut 
editor; William Knightly, chief 
draftsrtian; and Daniel Franks, 
photographer. Mfembers of the art 
staff are Eugene Meyers, Bennard 
Perlman, John Regan, and M. 
Gayle Sorenson. The layout staff 
is composed of Lee Daniels, Cal
vin Kapp, and Mario Varese.
Editorial assistants, appointed 
from men who have joined the 
staff recently, are Philip Gillespie, 
William Goodson, William Hasek, 
and Arthur Naylor,
On Mr. Cohens circulation staff 
are Thomas Hall, Barry Rowles, 
David Sapper, and Richard Burk. 
The advertising staff of David 
Mintz (who is also business man
ager of Cano), is composed of
Music Department 
Has Organ Recital
A recital will be given by or
gan students of the department of 
music in the Little Theater on 
Sunday, March 23, at 8:15 p. m.
Phoebe MacPhee, Roland W. 
Dollhapf, Lois Jean Wild, Wil
liam E. Lindberg, Howard E. 
Ryser, Lettie Ann Gearhart, Dor
othy Jean Coar, and Theodore W. 
Ripper will play.
The final number will be a 
choral improvisation, Wunderbarer Konig, by Karc-Elert. The
odore Ripper will be the organist, 
accompanied by Jay Maratta and 
Ben Benack on the trumpet; Ham
ilton Whitlinger and Albert Flow
er, the trombone; and C. Dean 
Streator, the tympani.
Eugene Lucas and Herbert Zisko.
Promoted to the rank of busi
ness assistants are William M. 
Clarke, Norman Howell, Midge 
Teague, and Marjorie Weaver. 
Editor Advises New Staff
In concluding the meeting of 
the Editorial Board, Hubert 
Aaronson, president editor-inchief, outlined the work accom
plished during the past year in 
which the Carnegie Technical has 
succeeded in improving both the 
quality and the appearance of its 
product and has even begun a 
new magazine, Cano, which is 
scheduled to appear shortly.
It's a IPnjJkShoe
Cobble-sewn Seams
lant a better moccasin? Tty 
this Freeman trail blaaer.
Its thick, special moccasin leather is soft as buck
skin but tough as rawhide. The exclusive, 
easy-fitting "Spring last gives k the feel of a
house slipper in spite of its 
serviceable heavy gauge soles.*9.75
Freeman Shoe Store
Jenkins ArcadePittsburgh, Pa.
His genius gave wings to words
It was an historic moment. Alexander Graham Bells telephone 
had just spoken its first words"Mr. Watson, come here, I want you!"
That evening in BostonMarch 10, 1876Dr. Bells crude 
instrument transmitted his voice only to the next room. But out 
of it was destined to come a whole new erathe era of quick, easy 
nation-wide telephony, of radio telephony in all its varied forms, 
of talking pictures, voice and music reproduction systems and 
electrical aids for the hard of hearing. Few inventions have played 
a greater part in shaping the world we live in!
Since 1877just one year after Bells long experimentation was 
crowned with successit has been Western Electrics privilege to 
help carry forward his great idea which gave wings to words. In 
that year Western Electric made its first telephone. More than 
45,000,000 have followed itover 4,000,000 of them in 1946 alone.
Today, from coast to coast, in factories, offices, distributing 
houses and central office installation crews, there are more than 
110,000 Western Electric workers. Imbued with the Bell System 
spirit of service, they are helping to provide equipment in record 
quantities to meet telephone needs far beyond any envisioned by 
the inventor.
This year marks the 100th Anniversary of Bells birth in 
Edinburgh, Scotland, on March 3, 1847. From early youth, 
he was keenly interested in aiding the hard of hearing. He 
became a teacher of "visible speech when 18 years old.
This work led to experiments with "telegraphing 
sound, out cf which, in 1876, came his greatest invention 
the telephone.
Dr. Bell was a great humanitarian as well as a great sci
entist. His accomplishmentsin aiding the deaf, in com
munications, in aviation and other fieldswere outstand
ing. His rich lifewhich had an incalculably great influ
ence on the worldcame to an end on August 2, 1922.Western Electric
A UNIT OF THE BEILSYSTEM SINCE 1882

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MARCH 18, 1947THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
* * THE CARNEGIE PLAID * *
Page Edited by Evening School Students of Carnegie Institute of Technology
WSSF Conducts 
Drive for Funds
Under the slogan we have it, 
they need it, the World Student 
Service Foundation is conducting 
a drive on campus with the pur
pose of raising funds for the re
lief of students in colleges and 
universities in war-torn lands.
The drive is under the com
bined sponsorship of the CWYMCA, APO, and IRC organiza
tions of CIT. The goal is $1500, 
and each day-school student is 
being asked to contribute fifty 
cents. Booths will be set up at 
the entrance of each building to 
receive contributions from mem
bers of the evening school stu
dent body.
The money goes to a central 
point in this country, is sent to the 
YMCA and other organizations 
overseas, and then distributed to 
needy students in the form of 
either food or books.
B.S. Degrees
Candidates for a B. S. de
gree who will graduate this 
spring and who have not re
ceived a notice from the reg
istrars office are asked to 
contact Mr. McKelway imme
diately.
Engineer Banquet 
Plans Progressing
The date is getting closer, and 
plans are shaping up in fine style 
for the Engineers 32nd Annual 
Banquet, to be held Saturday, 
April 12, in the English room of 
the Fort Pitt hotel.
The banquet chairman, Norman 
Martello, assures us that the ban
quet this year is going to be a 
humdinger with plenty of sou
venirs and prizes.
The banquet chairman also ad
vises us that he has some fine 
speakers lined up for the affair 
and that the show which high
lights the banquet is going to be 
tops as usual. You cant miss by 
attending this years Engineers 
Banquet, Norm declares.
Eve. S. C, Minutes
The meeting was called to order 
at 2:50 p. m.
Present: Misses Baumgardner,
Eckles, Ehni, Ashcraft, DeMaria, 
Shack, McMurray, Zellner ; 
Messrs. Vranic, Bogavich, Adams, 
Biscup, Mihelich, Flaherty and 
Cusino.
Absent: Miss Hensler; Messrs. 
Amuso, Martello and Miller.
The minutes of the meeting of 
February 8, 1947 were read and 
approved.
Old Business
Miss McMurray read a letter 
written by Miss Zellner, president 
of the womens evening school 
organization, stating that the 
group had adopted Phi Gamma 
Pi as its officia1 name and that 
Mrs. Dorothy Goodfellow had con
sented to be faculty advisor.
Mr. Biscup stated that in pre
vious years Council made an an
nual appropriation to be used for 
expenses incurred in holding the 
annual Engineers Banquet. Miss 
Zellner moved that $100 be ap
propriated for this purpose, sec
onded by Miss Ashcraft and ap
proved by the Council.
Mr. Biscup conveyed to the 
Council a report from Dean War
den that the expense of mailing 
the PLAID to evening students 
had exceeded $500, the portion of 
this expense which the Institute 
had agreed to pay. Any disburse
ment in excess of this amount will 
have to be paid by the Council.
Mr. Adams read some remarks 
made by Prof. Graham of the 
University of Pittsburgh in an 
address given at the Publication 
Banquet sponsored by Pi Delta 
Epsilon. Mr. Graham gave his 
suggestions for the improvement 
of the PLAID, pointing out its 
strong and weak points. His sug
gestions will be discussed at 
greater length by the editor of the 
PLAID and the staff.
The dinner for the PLAID staff 
was again discussed. Mr. Biscup 
suggested that the editor of the 
Tartan be invited to attend this 
years dinner and that a speaker 
on journalism be secured for that
The Carnegie Plaid
Editor Betty Ashcraft News Editor Norman Martello Associate Editors 
Anne Shack Cecille Zellner Page edited by Evening School students 
of Carnegie Institute of Technology. All views or opinions expressed in editorial column are not necessarily endorsed by 
the Editorial Board of the Day School 
staff.StaffLou Adams Rosemary EcklesGeorge Bogovich Charles GerdingElsie Capelli Frank Mlhelic
Thom* Cuiclno Albert Snowden'  Win Vrimte
Clyde Knight Will Play 
At St. Patricks Dance
occasion. The date for the dinner 
was set for May 17.
Mr. Biscup gave a word of wel
come to Messrs. Flaherty and Cu
sino, the new representatives who 
were attending their first Council 
meeting and spoke briefly of their 
representation on Council.
New Business
Miss Shack reported that Clyde 
Knights orchestra had been se
cured for the St. Patricks Day 
dance to be held on March 22. 
Miss Shack asked for opinions as 
to the advisability of having a 
semi-formal danc on that date. 
Council members were in agree
ment that this was impracticable 
at this time, but that a semiformal dance should be held next 
year. The decorating scheme for 
Thistle hall was discussed and a 
tentative date was set for decor
ating.
Miss De Maria suggested that 
the insignia keys for the ban
quet be ordered in the near future 
so that they could be obtained for 
the banquet to be held sometime 
during the summer.
Miss Ashcraft inquired about 
details regarding the editing of 
the handbook. Mr. Biscup report
ed that no word had been received 
for some time from the printer 
concerning the books ordered for 
distribution at the beginning of 
this year. In view of the ex
tremely lengthy delays in secur
ing such printed matter, Mr. Bis
cup suggested that these books be 
modified by having important 
pages reprinted and inserted into 
the books by pasting for distri
bution next year.
The Council approved payment 
of the bills presented.
The meeting was adjourned at 
4:30 p. m.
Respectfully submitted, 
Arlene R. McMurray,
Secretary.
And who do you suppose I 
should be running into tonight? It 
was me old friends Pat and Mike. 
And sure but how should I be 
meeting them? Twas the two 
pigeons, them of the flying kind, 
blew in to our lab tonight through 
the open window. Sure and they 
flew right back out again.
Frank Mihelic done got all confuzzed in lab tonight . . . With 
all the gas troubles weve been 
having lately, he has to connect 
the bunsen burner to the water 
line . . . hot water of course. 
In the meantime Bill McKelvy 
was active also and accomplished 
the feat of oxidizing his eyebrows. 
Hi ya, baldy!!
Better late than never . . .
Rosemary finally found out we 
have a phone in the office . . . 
The question ariseswhich of
fice? And the three musketeers 
Mike Stavish, Joe Danko and Jim 
Johnson just dont believe in ex
erting their abilities in returning 
their empty china to the wash
room to be cleaned.
A complaint has just been de
livered via a local reporter . . . 
He tells me Im a wee bit inco
herent at times . . . but he didnt 
tell me what times ... I better 
ask Clem.
Our little Elsie is nowhere to 
be seen tonight . . . maybe she 
is proving her information that 
she unconsciously dissipated at 
the Pi Delta Epsilon Banquet . . .
Space is scarce in this little of
fice tonight; people have to use 
the ceiling as desk space. Gerd
ing does all right with 66.
Since this is the last dance on 
the social calendar which is sched
uled for next Saturday; rumors 
are flying that we should be hear
ing of a semi-formal along about 
the end of the semester. If they 
are true Id like to know more 
about them at the dance when 
Ill be seeing you all as our 
southern gal Ann said as she de
parted for home. Im on my way 
too!!
Skibo Scraps
l Continued from page 4]
Spring is being very cliche 
about the whole thing and having 
the conventional effect on Betty 
Haggerty and Bill Bourke, Joe 
Bartz and Vera Latchik, Jay Levinthal and Martha (Als sister) 
Lehman, and Stan Kohn and the 
Pitt Phi Sigs.
If you want your name silkscreened onto any towels, shirts, 
or dainty unmentionables, contact 
Herb Saiger or Marty Gal, who 
are now in the business . . . Be 
sure to listen to the CLAMBAKE 
this Thursday, its their anniver
sary program!
Heres your chance to Dance 
with Delight to Music by Knight. 
Your big opportunity to enjoy the 
melodious rhythm of Clyde Knight 
will come on Saturday night, 
March 22, at our gala St. Patricks 
Day dance. Thistle hall will again 
be the meeting place of danceloving evening students and their 
friends. Refreshments will be 
found in the Black Cat Lounge, 
and from past experience, it will 
be just as popular a gathering 
place as Thistle hall itself. The 
evening of the green will be the 
theme for the decoration of the 
dance in honor of St. Patricks 
Day.
As you have probably noticed, 
the social committee has been 
snagging students and urging the 
sale of tickets for this dance dur
ing the week. If you are not able 
to buy your tickets from these 
girls, a plentiful supply can be 
received from Mr. McKelways 
office, Room 132, Industries hall, 
Plaid Staff, and Evening Student 
Council. The price of these tickets 
is $1.00 per person.
Although the dance is not re' stricted to Tech students, we are 
asking the evening students to 
make a special effort to attend 
this St. Patricks Day dance. At 
our other dances, it was evident 
that the day school and outsiders
Decorations
Anyone desiring insignia 
award credit may help deco
rate Thistle hall for the St. 
Patrick dance; report at 6:30 
on March 21.
WCIT Contest
tContinued from page 4] 
will continue appearances on al
ternate weeks to vie for the 
months musical honors.
The boys on the Clambake pro
gram promise a real show next 
Thursday morning, for its their 
second anniversary (week, that 
is!) This Thursdays program was 
riotous when they interviewed a 
stewed (or was it half-baked?) 
clam neath the waters of Chesa
peake bay, but the next session 
promises live clams plus live 
music to consummate the celebra
tion.
Tonights Roundtable of the Air 
will debate a question of keen im
port to all loyal Skibos: Should 
Tech Return to Big-Time Athlet
ics? Students participating are: 
Betty Koester, Andy Cantini, Mar
shall Smith, and Norman Keats.
were in as much attendance as 
our own evening school students. 
This dance is being held for you 
guys and gals, so lets back it up 
and make an enjoyable evening 
for everyone.
Registrar Reveals 
Vacation Plans
All evening students eagerly 
anticipating an Easter vacation 
will be glad to hear this news. 
Easter vacation will start at 5:30 
p. m., April 3. All classes will re
sume Tuesday, April 8.
As the day school voted to re
linquish a day of their Easter va
cation in exchange for an extra 
day during the Spring Carnival, 
their Easter vacation will be 
shortened one day. This vote, 
however, does not affect the even
ing school, which will hold classes 
as usual throughout the Carnival.
Tech Sports
[Continued from page 5] 
putting the Tartans back on the 
football map.
Any Track Candidates?
Although the thermometer may 
deny it, Uncle Sams fast dwinling 65 greenbacks say that March 
is rapidly come to an end and 
spring is just around the corner. 
And with the warm weather 
comes the track season. As things 
stand now, Coach Halferty should 
have one of his better teams. But 
the team wont win meets with 
mastery in just a few events. Un
til the field events can be bolster
ed, a victorious season is going 
to be in doubt. How about some 
of you muscle men coming out 
and showing how its done? They 
sure could use you.
iiiii!!! ............:
The POST-CAZETTE and WWSW
((I jointly present
Quality Cleaning - 3-Hour Service
WE OPERATE OUR OWN PLANT
Try Our Good Laundry Service
CAMPUS CLEANERS
4609 Forbes St.MUseum 1288
WE USE DUPONT CLEANING FLUID
mm
TONIGHT:
Should We Socialize 
Medicine?
Participants:
John Dowling, Pitt 
Peter Marutiak, Duquesne 
Peggy McGill, Mt. Mercy
Ann McCWUn, P.C.W,

---------------------------------------------------

OLSEN & JOHNSON
NOW APPEARING AT 
NICKY BLAIR'S CARNIVAL
ON NEW YORKS 
GREAT WHITE WAY
CHESTERFIELD
IS BY FAR THE 
FAVORITE OF THE STARS 
AND SMOKERS
RODGER'S 
DAIRY
Try Our
HAMBURGERS
Made with 100% Pure Beef 
U. S. Government Inspected
LARGE MILK SHAKES
MADE WITH PURE IVHOLl 
M1L&
RODGER'S
DAIRY STORES
3905 FQRBES STREET 
Near Boquet
4619 CENTER AVENUE 
Near Craig
Other Stores Downtown
THE CARNEGIE TARTAN TUESDAY, MARCH .8, 1947
Sounding Board
[Continued from page 6] 
students want intercollegiate foot
ball well have it, for its own 
sake, but we will not go out and 
hire a team. As Mr. Overend 
said, the school has a policy 
against its pa; ing scholarships to 
athletes merely because they are 
athletes. And this policy definitely 
is not going to be changed in 
the future. However, if the alumni 
wish to sponsor some scholarships 
for exceptional players, it is all 
right as long as two simple rules 
are followed; first, any man re
ceiving such a scholarship must 
have scholastic promise, as judged 
by a faculty committee, in the 
field for which he is enrolled at 
Tech, and second, no scholarship 
can be larger in amount than any 
other scholarship given at this 
institution.
Speaks With Experience
Speaking as one who once had 
the job of placing graduate engi
neers (for twenty-ore years with 
General Electric) Dr. Doherty ad
vised students to get into extra
curricular activities if at all pos
sible. He said that there were two 
schools of thought on the subject: 
1) a fellow who is a good mixer 
but not necessarily at the top 
scholastically will be the most 
successful in life, and 2) the man 
who achieves top scholastic stand
ing will do the best.
He further explained, From 
studies that have been made and 
from my experience, I would exr 
pect the best scholars to reach the 
top in any technical field. It may 
be different in other, mon-technical, fields; I really dont know. 
It quite often happens that a 
good, all-around fellow will be 
good in everything else as well as 
in his studies. There doesnt seem 
to be an unfailing rule about it; 
some of the most successful men 
from my own class at the Uni
versity of Illinois were very retir
ing. I recommend participation in 
activities where it does not impair 
highly creditable accomplishment of the students primary 
purposeeducation.
Dr. Doherty concluded by stat
ing his pleasure at the great in
terest shown in recent school 
dances and the great activity 
shown in the preparation for 
Spring Carnival and Scotch and
Soda. These signs he said, would 
seem to indicate a reawakening of 
a sense of school spirit. We cer
tainly hope so.
