See 'The Squirrel Cage/ 
Read The Review On Page 2 
By Drisko and Von Halleartan
Only One Softball Title 
Yet To Be Decided. 
Story On Page 4
VOL. 41No. 25CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.WEDNESDAY, JUNE 2, 1048
Success Is Proclaimed For First Arts Night
George Corrin, chairman of the committee that planned and executed 
the Arts Night program, explains his exhibits to one 
of the many visitors, 
by A. Starke Drischell 
A notable precedent was set by the students of the arts 
school on Sunday evening, May 23.
For the first time in the history of Carnegie Tech there 
was held in the Fine Arts building an all-arts program, and 
exhibit bringing together quality work from every department in 
the Fine Arts college. And so enthusiastically was this presen
tation received that the idea may4 well be on its way to becoming a tradition on the campus.
Exhibits of particularly notable 
quality were exhibited from the 
department of architecture, paint
ing and design, sculpture, and 
drama in the large exhibition 
room from 8:00 p.m. to midnight.
At 9:00 there were performed in 
the Little Theatre works from the 
drama, music, and painting and 
design departments.
The program in the Little The
atre was varied and exceptionally 
stimulating. First presented was 
the performance of the one-act 
play Corner of God by Louis 
Adelman of the drama depart
ment. Following were two musi
cal compositions, Sonata for Pi
ano, by Ruth White and Allegro 
Con Brio for piano and violin 
by Lester Trimble. Both are stu[Continued on page 5]
Grace, Albert Grindell, Paul Han
na, Clark Sloan, Richard Cutkosky, Ernest Snoyer, Edward Von 
Halle, Robert Johnson, and Philip 
Birnbaum.
Student-Facuity Committee 
Prepares Faculty-Rating Sheet
Liaison Committee To Distribute Teacliing Aid 
For Use By Faculty During This Semester
Designed as an aid to instructors in judging the effectiveness of 
their teaching, a faculty-rating sheet prepared by the Student Fac
ulty Liaison committee in the College of Engineering will be given 
to all departments for the first time at the end of the present semester.
Originally started during the fall semester in the EE and ME
departments by John Grace, Al
bert Grindell, and Paul Hanna, 
the project was shortly taken over 
by the committee, which has been 
refining the content and method of presentation of the ratingsheet this semester.
Said Grace in explanation,
The purpose of the project is 
simply to allow the instructor to 
know the effectiveness of his 
teaching techniquesat least in 
the opinion of the students. Each 
instructor will distribute and col
lect his own rating sheets and will 
dispose of them as he sees fit.
The points that the students are 
asked to evaluate the instructors 
on are those deemed by the com
mittee to be the most important 
and helpful to the instructor.
Offered already to several of 
the departments in the college, the 
rating sheet has drawn consider
able attention and the great ma
jority of instructors have been 
very interested in using the sheet.
Shortly it is expected that the 
rating-sheet will be offered to ev
ery department.
Although the members of the 
committee feel that the ratingsheet they have devised is a help
ful one, they are interested in 
criticisms and suggestions for fur
ther improvements.
Members of the committee who 
aided in this project were John
ODK Initiates 
New Members
Omicron Delta Kappa, senior 
mens activities honorary and the 
annual sponsor of Spring Carnival, 
initiated its new members on 
June 1 at 7:00 p.m. The initiation 
service was followed by a ban
quet at the University club.
Cy Hungerforcv, well known car
toonist for the Pittsburgh PostGazette and an honorary member 
of the University of Pittsburghs 
chapter of ODK, was guest 
speaker.Those students called to mem
bership were: David Mintz, Stan
ley Siegel, Clark Sloan, Robert 
Johnson, Vincent Prus, and J. K. 
OHare, Carnegie Techs chapter, 
the Beta Delta Circle of ODK, also called to membership Dr. 
Norman Dawes of the division of 
humanistic and social studies, outstanding educator and lecturer, 
and a member of Phi Kappa Phi, 
and Ben E. David, Assistant Dean 
of Men.
Election Results
The results of the voting in 
the three colleges is as follows. 
Candidates are shown with 
their respective point scores as 
determined by the weighted 
ballot. All those listed have 
been elected to Council. Those 
names marked (nv) were elect
ed as non-voting representa
tives.
Engineering
Gerald Meyers 
Pat Ryan 
John Horner 
David Sapper 
Stanley Siegel 
John Fockler 
George Zenk 
John Bigley 
Barry Rowles 
John Engle 
Bruce Barrow (nv)
Fine Arts Jack Garver 
Gwen McDade 
Richard Fleischman 
Gaylord Hawkins (nv)
Margaret Morrison Frances Rea 
Hilde Jacob 
Patricia Adams (nv)Sally Luther (nv)
3575
3195
3147
3138
3030
2992
2992
2943
2937
2935
194
192
167
1949 Thistle Price 
Expected To Rise 
To At Least $5.00
Because an $1,100.00 loss was 
incurred this year, next years 
Thistle will probably cost at least. 
$5.00,
Chief reason for the large def
icit this year was the increased 
cost of engraving. Since last years 
engraving was unsatisfactory, this 
years work was done by a differ
ent firm, which charged larger 
fees, partly because a better lay
out was used. Other factors in the 
deficit were an increase of 30 per
cent in the cost of paper and an 
increase of 10 percent in print
ing expenses.
The $3.00 per copy charged this 
year actually covered only the 
printing costs. Student Council 
would not allow the price to be 
raised because the students had 
contracted to pay only $3.00.
The price of $3.00 for a yearbook is lower than that of any 
other college. In the past the staff 
has been able to publish econom
icContinued on page 7]
FAC Places Four 
More Councilmen
the
James McGiffin New 
Scotch n Soda Head
James H. McGiffin, drama junior, is the new president of 
executive board of the Scotch n Soda club.
The newly-elected executive board, headed by McGiffin and
'?George Sherman, business mana
ger, consists of David Clark, 
George Corrin, Janet Duffet, Imero Fiorentino, Gaylord Hawkins 
and Kenneth Welch.
The board has announced the 
script rules governing the compe
tition for the 1949 show. Any stu
dent at Carnegie is eligible to sub
mit a script. Rules for the compe
tition may be obtained from mem
bers of the Scotch n Soda board.
All students who worked on the 
production of The Ladys at 
Work have been invited to attend 
a picnic on Sunday, June 6, in 
Schenley park from 1:00 to 6:00. 
Scotch n Soda will supply all re
freshments.
A brief organizational meeting 
of the club will be held during the 
afternoon at which membership 
James McGiffin cards will be distributed.
Six Fraternity Men Also Winners 
In Engineering; Citcom Blanked
Having expected a sweeping victory in the College of En
gineering, IAC found its hopes dimmed when only four of its 
six candidates for Student Council from the college were elected 
in the spring elections on Friday, May 28.
Kesuits of the Council elections indicated clearly that
?Robert Crago, IAC chairman, had 
overestimated the support behind 
the candidates of his group.
Citcom Clans two candidates, 
Arbon Lang and Richard Deckman, who ran on the IAC slate, 
were both defeated.
An important victory, however, 
was achieved by the independent 
machine in the unopposed election 
of Bruce Barrow as a non-voting 
member from Engineering. Other 
IAC candidates elected include 
Gerald Meyers, who polled the 
highest total vote, John Fockler, 
George Zenk and John Engle.
Fraternity candidates Pat Ryan, 
John Horner, David Sapper, Stan
ley Siegel, John Bigley and Barry 
Rowles succeeded to the remain
ing Council positions.
Intensive campaigning by IAC 
and almost all candidates as indi
viduals, apparently did not have 
the desired effect. The number of 
students voting in Engineering 
dropped to approximately 80% of 
the total who voted in the March 
election. Similar situations v - 
curred in Fine Arts and Margaret 
Morrison where approximately 
60% and 70%, respectively, of the 
previous total ballots were cast. 
Neither Fine Arts nor Margaret 
Morrison, however, were affected 
by the campaigning in Engineer
ing.
Of the 3036 students eligible to 
vote, a combined total of 1258 vot
ed. This represents 85% of the 
total number of students who vot
ed in the March election.
Elected as voting councilmen 
from Fine Arts were Jack Garver, 
Gwen McDade, and Richard 
Fleischman. Gaylord Hawkins was 
elected non-voting member.
Voting members from Margaret 
Morrison will be Frances Rea and 
Hilde Jacob. Patricia Adams and 
Sally Luther are non-voting representativer.
Of the 30 men who are Council 
members, nine represent IAC as 
compared with 21 fraternity men. 
All eight councilwomen are sor
ority members.
Fall Carnival 
Being Planned
Consent Of Council, 
Executive Board Needed
The re-institution of Fall Car
nival next fall is being planned by 
Delta Skull and Scimitar. Before 
the event can be scheduled how
ever, the Executive Board and 
Student Council must approve it. 
Student Council will consider it 
tomorrow afternoon.
Fall Carnivals were held twice 
before the war, but have not yet 
been revived. Tentative plans for 
next fall have set the date for 
October 22 and 23. The TartanWashington and Jefferson foot
ball game scheduled for Friday 
evening, October 22, would be the 
first event of the Carnival.
There would be held on Satur
day evening an all school costume 
dance featuring a name band. 
Each fraternity and dorm, and 
Citcom would wear its own indi
vidual type of costume.
Other events during the week
end would be a blue-jeans dance 
on Friday evening following the 
football game and competitive 
events on Saturday afternoon.
Fall Carnival would not be in
tended to be as big a weekend as 
Spring Caarnival, with less time 
allowed and fewer events sched
uled, according to Dave Mintz and 
William L. (Lolly) Anderson, who 
have been making the arrange
ments. Should the plan be ap
proved Delta Skull and Scimitar 
will discontinue sponsorship of the 
Junior Prom and Soph Hop re
spectively.
Formal Dress 
Not Required 
For Senior Ball
Although the Senior Ball, this 
year to be held on the evening of 
June 25 in the foyer of the Car
negie Music hall, has traditionally 
been a formal affair, Dean Yon has 
pointed out the specific desire of 
those in charge that no one re
frain from attending for lack of 
formal attire. No one should be 
discouraged from attending the 
dance on that account, she said.
The dance will be held from 
9:00 to 12:00 and will feature the 
music of a staff orchestra from 
KDKA playing from the balcony. 
The dance will be restricted to 
members of the senior class and 
their dates, approximately 500 
couples being expected.

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TASTARWEDNESDAY, JUNE 2, 1948
arncpiEartan
OFFICES: Camegie Union, 5075 Forbes St., Pittsburgh, Pa. TELEPHONE: SC. 4557; after hours MU. 5365, SC. 8951. Published weekly during the school year, except holidays 
and examination periods, by the students of Camegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Editor-in-Chief .................................................... Robert W. JohnsonBusiness Manager ........................................................... Samuel MosesAssociate Editor ....................................................... Burton L. Epstein
Personnel Manager ..................................................... Jay H. Johnson
News EditorRobert Kubiak, Features Editor__Gerald EPeck, Chief Copy EditorThomas P. Murray, Sports Editor 
Paul Offermann, Makeup EditorRobert Cloud, Art Editor Russell F. Kulberg, Advertising ManagerArthur G. Zuch Circulation ManagerLewis S. Sternberg.
Copy EditorPat Petrick, Headline EditorMyra-Jane Barry, Proof EditorJohn Braun, Makeup Asst.Francis Cody, 
Chief ReportersWilliam Johns, Bennard Perlman, Freder
ick C. Price, Mildred Teague, Alphonse Toppeto, Joseph Weinreich, Chief Sports ReporterBill Dorn, Chief PhotographerWilliam D. Benswanger.
Copy StaffMary Cauffield, Robert Heckert, Analee Gel- man, John Helmick.
Features StaffRobert Charpie, A. Starke Drischell, Martin DorfT, Carl Klahr.
Senior ReporterF. R. Johnson, ReportersAinslie Bricker, Jo Crisanti, William Feeman, Frances Hamborsky, Camilla Hawthorne, Bea Patterson, Angelia Pollis, Ruby Weisberg. Cub ReportersMarvin Bachman, Hilda Chottiner, Ina Jean 
Cohen, Jane Conner, Bee Potter, Catherine Rudy, Marian Schrag, Anita Tambellini, Nancy Will.
Sports StaffWarren Lithgow, Robin Molney.
Photography StaffRichard Deininger, Ames Penfield. AdverUsing StaffShirlee Goldenfeld, Marilyn Frykdahl, 
Leonard Smollen, Dave Stevenson, Circulation StaffMilton Sniderman, Malcolm Samakow, Dave Steiner, Herbert Stone. SecretaryVirginia Steinbach, TypistsHelen Brody, Betty Jane Baur.
Represented for national advertising by NATIONAL ADVER
TISING, Inc., College Publishers Representative, 420 Madison Ave., New York City. Subscription $1.10 per year.
Entered as second class matter on Oct. 4, '.07 at the Post Office at Pittsburgh, Pa., under the Act of March 3, 
1879. Accepted for mailing at special rate at postage pro
vided far in the Act of February 28, 1925. Authorized October 21, 1918.
Editorial
Dare We Hope?
There occurred on this campus last Friday 
evening a meeting which only forty-eight hours 
previously would have been considered by most 
students to be Tiot only foolish but also impos
sible.
Present at this informal gathering were the 
Messrs. Dale Wright and Jack Seward, both 
fraternity members, Robert Crago and Jack 
Anderson, representatives of IAC, and Jack 
Ewart, retiring president of Citcom Clan. The 
purpose of the meeting was a reconciliation of 
the objectives and interests of the fraternity 
man, the dorm resident, and the commuter.
The discussion that took place was not of a 
political nature; the conclusions reached were 
simple and basicthat the only issues facing 
the students of Carnegie Tech relate directly 
to student welfare and what is being done by 
the faculty, the administration, and the stu
dents themselves in relation to that welfare. 
The unanimous decision was that the issues 
of the recent election did not exist.
Tremendously significant was the result of 
this meeting, for these leaders, representing 
some of the most antagonistic groups on the 
campus, were able to agree on every funda
mental issue they discussed. They agreed that 
men in each group would benefit, that every 
student in the school would benefit, if their 
factions would channel the energy they use 
fighting one another into promoting and seek
ing improvements in those campu^ conditions 
which affect the entire student body.
These men, through their diverse collegiate 
careers, have individually and collectively dis
covered that, so long as merit standards apply 
at all levels, the interest of a specialized group 
on the campus is the interest of the entire 
student body, and a benefit to the school as a 
whole is in the interest of any and all individ
ual segments thereof.
The question now to be faced is whether 
next year there will be available men with the 
same vision that has been displayed by those 
above mentioned, men who can learn from 
these past experiences. Such men are needed 
to make a Carnegie Tech education as valuable 
as we want it to be.
Are there men here who realize and will 
accept their responsibility and who will sup
port a program that is thoughtfully designed 
to improve and enrich our campus life? We 
believe that there are. We expect this respon
sibility to be accepted.
Right Face!
By Robert Charpie
Psssst !
As we look into our crystal ball named Hope, 
we see CITs version of the new look. In the fu
ture there will be
an all school library in a building all its own. 
(Imagine having all o fthe available literature on 
a subject collected in one place.)
mens dorms comparable in quality to the fu
ture Femalandiathe late Morewood Gardens.
the long-talked-about fraternity quadrangle 
which will bloom where the mud and rats now 
hold forth.
graduate courses pre-scheduled in the day
time instead of hours to be arranged (by moon
light).
lower prices in Skibo.
major sports representation which is not the 
laughing stock of the local wags.
no more Saturday classes.
We could go on and on suggesting improve
ments to be made. We should realize, however, 
that things around CIT have been changing very 
rapidly for the better. Even during the time I have 
been in Pittsburgh, many improvements have been 
made, but we tend to overlook them in a hasty 
evaluation.
The faculty has improved immeasurably in 
quality. Additional dorm space, eating facilities, 
and parking space have been provided. The cur
riculum has been made more flexible and more 
adequate. An extensive graduate study and re
search program, including the synchro-cyclotron, 
has been inaugurated. YeS, and there are lots of 
other improvements, toobut still we gripe.
We would all like to see CIT institute now the 
improvements suggested above, so that on return
ing in the fall, we could brag about our modern 
design college. However, even if we cant have 
these things right away, we can still hope that those 
who follow us will enjoy them.
Yes, it would be swell if we could have our super-duper school now, but remember: it took two 
years to lower womens skirts 10"so we cant 
expect to raise 10 million bucks for CITs new 
look overnight.
In Retrospect The Year 
Shows Real Progress
A backward glance from the safety of the last 
Tartan of the year permits a bit of perspective on 
what has gone on during the past eight months. 
An evaluation of the changes that have taken place 
in that time may even be possible.
The really significant movements that began 
in the early part of the year were in connection 
with Student Council and the Tartan. For a while 
the school had quite a donnybrook on its hands, 
but it was eventually patched up, and from the 
present state of affairs everyone concerned wouM 
seem to be more or less happy about the outcome.
First to thrust out his neck, and get it chopped 
off, was Dave Mintz who allowed as how he thought 
the Tartan wasnt doing the proper kind of job cov
ering Student Council meetings. After the pasting 
he took from the Tartan, he seemed quite reluctant 
to let anything more than a gurgle escape his lips 
for several weeks.
The episode was rather hard on Mintz, but it 
did effectively bring Student Council and its ac
tions before the eyes of the students.
It was about this time too, that Council began 
to get the urge to investigate things. There were 
a number of things that the Councilmen decided to 
look into, and it must be said to their credit that 
they did a much better job of it than the national 
Congress generally does.
A rustle in the political bushes proved to be 
IAC and an organization that made the self-confi
dent fraternities stop and take notice. Although 
crushed in the December election, Robert Crago, J. 
K. OHare and their I-prime cohorts found a few 
flaws in the election procedure, whereupon they de
manded and got a new election. They did rather 
well the second time. All their men got on Council.
NSA, National Student Association, was brought 
up by someone, but someone else thought it wasnt 
a very good idea, which is just about the position 
it has been left in ever since. Too bad.
A few complaints about the prices and service 
in Skibo kicked up quite a commotion. But unlike 
most such disturbances, this one didnt quiet down 
in a hurry. Probably because it hit home for too 
many people, and also because it was justified.
IAC ended up the year still alive and kicking 
It didnt get quite as many voters out to the polls 
at the spring election as it did in the first one, but 
it certainly didnt get whitewashed. Council should 
really be interesting next year.
R. W. J.
On Stage
_by Richard Drisko and Edward Von Halle.
Students and patrons of the Lit
tle Theatre who make it an in
violable rule not to attend the 
plays written by students will do 
well to break their tradition and 
see William Putchs The Squirrel 
Cage. Adapted from former Hol lywood writer Edwin Gilberts 
novel of the same name, The 
Squirrel Cage sharply satirizes 
the Hollywood colony.
The play is enjoyable for its 
fast-moving plot, its clever dia
logues, its satirical humor, its 
well-delineated characterization, 
and its timeliness.
*The Squirrel Cage centers 
about Tony Willard, a playwright 
who has been lured to Hollywood 
by big money to adapt his play 
for the screen, his experiences 
with the veteran screen writers 
who have been warped by the 
false Hollywood environment, and 
his victimization (for presumed 
Communist sentiments) by a red
baiting, witch-hunting executive.
For its satirizing of Hollywoods 
red-scared movie magnates, -the 
play is especially timely. It will 
be welcomed by those who have 
followed the current national 
farce involving the Parnell Thom
as committee, the Ten Unfriendly 
Witnesses, and the incredibly stu
pid studio executives who see a 
communist behind every socialminded script.
The playwright has done an ex
cellent job in surmounting the 
difficulties involved in an adapta
tion. The characters are well de
fined both in actions and speech. 
An exception however, is the role 
of Kay, a secretary, whose con
flict between love for Tony Wil
lard and her desire for the social 
status of a movie executives wife 
leave the audience more in be
wilderment than suspense. The 
difficulty is directly traceable to 
the impossibility of including 
within the time limit of the play
her psychological and historical 
background which in the novel 
explain her behaviour.
The playwright has done par
ticularly well in compressing the 
story to the limited compass of a 
single set. The set itself is ingeni
ously executed, showing Willards 
office on the left, and the ante
room on the right side of the stage. 
Showing the two rooms simul
taneously affords an opportunity 
for several deilghtful contrasts. 
For instance, while producer, di
rector, and writers confer excited
ly, the secretary placidly chews 
her gum and ieads pulp in the 
anteroom.
The acting is, in general, excel
lent. The lead role of Tony Wil
lard was played by Elek Hartman 
with restraint. However, his re
straint detracted in several scenes 
from the force of the situations; in 
particularly, when he sounded an
gry he did not look angry.
As the dumpy gum-chewing 
secretary, Sada Thompson gave 
another of her flawless character
izations. Her timing was superb 
and her stenographic walk in
comparable.
James Harkey received a welldeserved ovation for his portrayal 
of a gesticulating, eccentric, af
fected producer.
Lester Rosenberg, Vincent 
OBrien, and Lee Vogel did well 
in their roles as typical Hollywood 
personalities.
Nancy Wickwire gave a gen
uinely sensitive performance as 
Nicola, an intelligent, mature 
woman.
We feel that Bob Reynolds is 
deserving of special commenda
tion for his accuracy with the re
fuse harpoon.
All in all the cast did a pro
fessional job on a well-written 
play, a combination well worth 
seeing.The second cast will be seen, 
starting Thursday, June 3.
The Church Of The Redeemer
(Episcopal)
5700 Forbes Street 
HUGH S. CLARK, RECTOR
---------------------H---------------------
SUNDAY SERVICES
Holy Communion ................................................................... 8 a. m.
Morning Prayer and Sermon ........................................... 11 a* m.
(Holy Communion on 1st Sunday of Month at 11 a. m.) 
Service on the first Sunday of every month, in the Parish
House, followed by Canterbury Club Meeting,
also:
Every Thursday at Camegie Inn (11:301:30) 
----------------------O---------------------
All Students Welcome

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, JUNE 2, 1948THE CARNEGIE TARTAN8
Rev. John C. Murray To Speak 
At Baccalaureate Services
6One Of Most Brilliant Minds In American 
Catholicism9 Presented In Public Exercises
The Reverend John Courtney 
Murray, S.J., who has been called 
one of the most brilliant minds in 
American Catholicism, will speak 
to the graduating class of the Car
negie Institute of Technology at 
the Baccalaureate services in Car
negie Music hall, June 26.
The services will be open to the public.
A professor of theology at 
Woodstock college in Maryland, 
Father Murray is also editor of 
Theological Studies and is an 
officer and board member of sev
eral Catholic commissions. Among 
these are the Catholic Association 
for International Peace, of which 
he is vice-president; the Catholic 
Commission on Intellectual and 
Cultural Affairs; and the Confer
ence on Science, Philosophy and Religion.
Father Murray is a graduate of 
Gregorian university in Rome and 
is the author of numerous articles 
in theological journals and other 
periodicals, including Encyclo
pedia Britannica, Encyclopedia 
of Religion, and the Annals of 
the American Academy of Politi
cal and Social Science. He is 
widely known as a lecturer on re
lations between church and state, 
and was a participant in the re
cent Inter-Professions Conference 
on Education for Professional Responsibility.
Reverend Murray
Phi Kappa Phi 
To Initiate 
73 Seniors
Summer Students
Students attending the sum
mer semester may register from 
June 9 to June 19, inclusive. 
They should first report to the 
Office of the Registrar to ob
tain their schedules, permits, 
and class coupons.
Veterans should then stop at 
the Veterans Center before go
ing to the Cashiers office. Non
veterans should proceed direct
ly from the Registrars office 
to the Cashiers office for the 
payment of feesGloria Bergman Joins Doherty 
In Presidents Review Of ROTC
Let Old Council Elect 
New Officers, Says Bell
Final Report On Skibo Presented;
Possibility Of Simpler Meals Seen
Diametrically opposed viewpoints on the ability of newlyelected councilmen to select their officers highlighted Student 
Councils informal discussion of proposed revisions of its con
stitution at its May 25 meeting.
Jerome Bells contention that new representatives dont 
know who is capable of filling the Council offices disagreed
_______------------------------------? completely with Dale Wrightsthat election should be
Phi Kappa Phi, national schol
arship honorary initiated 73 
new undergraduate aAd five fac
ulty members from all three col
leges at its annual initiation at 
the University club yesterday eve
ning.
A banquet followed the initia
tion. Main speaker for the even
ing was James M. Bovard, chair
man of the Board of Trustees.
Assuming the presidency of the 
Carnegie Tech chapter was Ed
ward Saibel, associate professor 
in mathematics. John Michener 
has been re-elected vice-president, 
and Dr. J. M. Daniels and Miss 
Dorothy Stewart are holdovers in 
the offices of the treasurer and 
secretary respectively.
The undergraduates called rep
resent the scholastically highest 
ten per cent of the senior 
class in each college. Phi Kappa 
Phi is similar to Phi Beta Kappa 
except that it does not limit its 
members to candidates for bachelor of arts degrees.
Those undergraduates who are 
being called now are eligible to 
apply for the honorarys national 
scholarships for graduate stu
dents. Applications must be made 
before next April for scholarships 
for the following year.
The CIT chapter also sponsors 
the Ihrig Lawler Memorial schol
arship fund for Carnegie Tech 
undergraduates.
Lets go to
ISALY'S
Milk Shakes 
Big Ice Cream Cones 
Klondikes 
Tasty Lunches
Three Stores In the College District
5808 Forbes Street. Squirrel Hill
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland 
Main Planti
ootfO Boulevard of the Allies
Commencement 
Tickets Available 
June 1 To June 8
All those who will receive de
grees on June 27 are urgently re
quested to cooperate in the dis
tribution of commencement tick
ets.
Tickets will be issued to candi
dates from June 1 to June 8. on 
the basis of two to each individ
ual. Candidates are asked not to 
take tickets which they do not 
expect to use.
Those wishing more than two 
tickets should file an application 
for the additional tickets in the 
Registrars Office, from June 8 to 
June 11. Extra tickets available 
will be allotted in the fairest man
ner possible.
ROTC Queens line up for inspection. Left to right: Bobbie Billings, 
Vera Latchic, Gloria Bergman, Jeanne Anderson, Carole Cole.* * * * * *
In the first postwar revival of the Presidents Review, Gloria 
Bergman, recently elected Honorary Cadet Colonel, will review the 
Carnegie Tech ROTC unit with President Doherty on Thursday, June 
3, at 11:30 a. m. on the Cut.
Miss Bergman and Dr. Doherty will be joined by Colonel Harold 
A. Kurstedt and the battalion officers in reviewing the corps. The 
Kiltie Band will lead the parade in this review which will climax 
the years activity for the ROTC/*
Also taking part will be the 
Honorary Executive Officer, Car
ole Cole, and Vera Latchic, Bob
bie Billings and Jeanne Anderson 
who will act as sponsors of the
One of the Girls
------------------------ Pa
Pat Baum, whose middle name 
has been activity-plus since she 
came to Carnegie in September, 
1944, is about to come to the end 
of a college career marked by a 
constant pre-occupation with 
meeting peoplelots of people.
A variety of interests, into 
which she has always thrown her
self wholeheartedly, have brought 
her hosts of friends and made her 
one of the best known personali
ties on the campus.
Pats most distinctive character
istic is a fine sense of humor, as 
evidenced by an infectious and 
charming grin.
Her first love is music, so if 
urgently needed she can always 
be found in one of those four-byfour practice rooms in Fine Arts 
with her violin tucked under her 
chin. You may have seen her 
playing the same violin in the 
orchestra at Scotch and Soda or 
in the string section of the school 
orchestra.
Pat does not give her music 
precedence over matrimony, 
however, since she is soon to 
marry PiKA Jack Hackler.
Possessing a technique for or
ganization, Pat has done a fine 
job as President of Panhellenic 
council, rush chairman for Kap
pa Alpha Theta, member of Mor
tar Board and Sigma Alpha Jota,
Baum
Pat Baum
president of Cwens, and member 
of Beaux Arts society and Phi 
Kappa Phi.
In spite of all the demands 
made on her, Pat remains com
pletely calm and relaxed, as any
one who has observed her in a 
chair at Skibo can attest. She can 
probably find few gray hairs 
among her short, dark ones.
For a girl like Pat, the future 
should be very bright.
three companies in the battalion.
Cadet Colonel James Lee will 
pin the emblems of their rank on 
each of the girls and will present 
them with certificates attesting to 
their election to the honorary 
ranks.
Upon the conclusion of the pa
rade Miss Bergman will present 
awards to the winners of the com
petitions held during the year to 
determine the best drilled unit, 
squad, and company.
Medals will be presented to 16 
distinguished military students as 
well as to the outstanding ROTC student in the elementary and in 
the advanced course.
In their most recent review, the 
annual formal inspection by the 
Second Army inspecting board, 
held last week, the Carnegie Tech 
unit received a rating of excel
lent.
Vets Must File 
Report Of Income
Veterans registering for sum
mer classes must file a report of 
earnings at the time of registra
tion if they wish to receive sub
sistence checks on time, the vet
erans representative said this 
week.
Veterans who have been em
ployed during the period of the 
spring semester must secure a 
copy of form 7-1963 in the Vet
erans center, IH 152. This must be 
signed by the employer and turn
ed in completed at registration.
Veterans who have not been 
employed during the period of 
the spring semester need not se
cure the form in advance of reg
istration.
opinionby the most recent expression of 
public opinion, that is, by the 
newly-elected Council. 4From a meeting of the Student 
Conference committee Jack John
son and Jerome Bell brought their 
final report on Skibo prices, a 
subject long absent from the 
Council floor. Hopes for a remod
eling of the Skibo plant were dim
med by an administration an
nouncement that there would defi
nitely be no change in the present 
building for some time to come. 
Simpler Meals Suggested
Possible relief for the dormitory 
students and the commuters was 
indicated, however, in a plan 
whereby simpler meals would be 
served, and only at specified hours. 
This system, along with a pro
posed investigation of the effi
ciency of Skibo service, seemed to 
offer the only feasible method of 
reducing the heavy financial bur
den now imposed on the Skibo 
diner, the committee reported.
Besides the election of officers, 
the question of Council jurisdic
tion over CITs honoraries, and 
the extent of proportional repre
sentation which can be allowed 
while still maintaining an effec
tive student administration were 
the most important of the many 
controversial issues involved in 
discussion of the constitution.
After a long discussion, restric
tion of the supervision of CITs 
honoraries to the local groups, 
such as Scimitar and Delta Skull, 
was decided to be the most prac
tical plan. Several councilmen 
pointed out that national organ
izations, like Omicron Delta Kap-. 
pa and Mortar Board, are beyond 
Council jurisdiction, for they are 
not purely Carnegie Tech activi
ties.
Council Size Discussed
With the announcement that the 
total enrollment will drop to 3200 
students next fall, Jerome Bell 
suggested that the basis for 
Council representation remain at 
one councilman per hundred stu
dents. Jack Seward contended that 
a thirty-two member council 
would be too large for efficient administration and proposed a 
change to one councilman per 150 
students. Though it was generally 
conceded that present representa
tion made Council overly large, 
fears of a too-small and conse
quently unrepresentative body 
prevented agreement on any defi- inite figure.
In answer to a query concern
ing $200 authorized for the print
ing of organizational pamphlets, 
Marvin Gustavson declared that 
he had been unable to do a good 
job on the booklets and had there
fore postponed their publication 
until a more opportune time. The 
pamphlets, written to acquaint of
ficers of campus organization with 
the policies and problems of their 
activities, were designed to in
crease the efficiency of the operat
ing staffs of the campus groups.
A motion by Jerome Bell re
sulted in the approval of Paul 
Schucker, Jack Seward, Edward 
McGehee, Lee Watkins, and Louie 
Deane Miller as representatives of the class of 1948. Their duties 
will be to aid the members of the 
class in contacting one another 
and to supervise the activities of 
the class as an alumni group.
[Continued on page 6]

---------------------------------------------------

tTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, JUNE 2, 1948TNT And ATO Take League Titles
Paul Offermans
Sportscope
Crying Towel99 Routine 
Used By Track Coach
One of the more unusual publicity approaches used by 
coaches in analyzing their teams prospects for the coming sea
son was unfolded this year by track coach Guy Halferty the 
week before the season began.
Guy used the same old crying towel routine which is 
associated with Frank Leahys releases to the press on the 
prospects of Notre Dames Fighting Irish.
Before the track season opened, Halferty made the state
ment to one of the local papers that Carnegies track team this 
season was the worst one he had coached in 
his 25 years at CIT. He added that he would 
be satisfied if the team could keep its oppon
ents from running up the score.
A few days after the track mentors re
marks were published, we had several inquir
ies, some from people who had no connection 
with arnegie at all, as to why a coach should 
evidence such lack of confidence in his team. 
We are in no position to answer this 
question, but may refer the interested persons to the theory 
offered to explain Leahys unconventional attitude.
A pessimistic outlook is supposedly Leahys psychological 
method of inspiring his team and preventing them from becom
ing overconfident. When they do sweep through without a loss, 
the season is just that much more of a success. We wonder how 
Mr. Leahy will go about the task of really convincing everyone 
that his team is weak, if and when that ever happens to be true.
We are not trying to analyze Coach Halfertys statements 
but are merely presenting the general consensus of opinion on 
Leahy, as a parallel example.
Actually, the track team was the most successful of Car
negies eight intercollegiate athletic teams, winning three of 
six dual meets, and finishing third in the Tri-State champion
ship meet.
It may be that Guy overestimated the other teams and that 
they were also experiencing bad years, but the two records 
which were smashed in the Tri-State meet do not attest to this.
Although this years team was pitifully weak in the weight 
events and the hurdles, we thought they were sufficiently strong 
in the three dashes, the 880, the one and two mile, the broad 
and high jump, and the one mile relay, to be depended upon for 
a better than average showing during the season.
Next season should be a banner season for Coach Halfertys 
charges with everyone returning except Gene Riehl. It is ex
pected that Andrews, Genevas one-man track team, will be 
wearing the Plaids colors next year. This will be a big help to 
our weak departments, the hurdles and field events, for An
drews put on a good show in the Tri-State meet in the high 
hurdles, low hurdles, javelin, discus, pole vault, and broad jump. 
He also runs in the 100 and 220 dashes. The real answer to a 
coachs prayers!
Tartans Bow T o Duquesne, W &J 
As Tennis Team Ends Season
Carnegies tennis team closed out its season last week, meeting 
Duquesne at McKinley courts and playing Washington and Jefferson 
at home. Only two games were salvaged in each meet as they bowed 
by identical scores, 7-2.
Burkhardt stood out for the Plaid against the team from the 
Bluff. After trouncing his opposi- ? 
tion in singles, he teamed with 
Miller to win in doubles. Short, 
of Duquesne, one of the districts 
outstanding players, showed class 
in taking Taylor in straight sets.
Bassett returned to the squad 
after being out for three meets 
with an injured hand, but his 
presence failed to stop the Little 
Presidents, who had an easier time 
winning here than at home.
Monstream, subbing for Taylor, 
won the only singles victory for 
the Skibos 7-5, 8-6.Rain cut short the doubles play 
and two games were not finished.
The team finished the season 
with a rather dismal record of two
wins and eight losses. The only 
victories were over Thiel and 
Grove City. Pitt, Duquesne, and 
W&J scored victories over the 
Plaid. Results of the Wash-Jeff 
match:
SINGLES
Bartley, (W&J), defeated Bassett, (CIT), 6-3, 6-1.
Davies, (W&J), defeated Cronin, (CIT), 6-2, 6-4.
Elson, (W&J), defeated McConnell, (CIT). 8-7, 4-6. 6-3.
Snider, (W&J), defeated Miller, (CIT), 
6-3. 6-8, 6-1.Montstream, (CIT), defeated Frazier, (W&J) 7-5 8-6
Borland, (W&J), defeated Burkhardt, 
(CIT), 6-1, 6-2.
DOUBLES
Bartley and Griffith, (W&J), defeated 
Bassett and Kroko, (CIT), 6-3, 6-4,
Gringoes Must Play Off Tie 
To Win Title in Federal League
TNT Coasts To Championship With Easy Victories 
Over Citcom., Emanon; ATO Squeezes Past FPHA, 4-3
Scoring a 4-3 win over FPHA in 
their final game of the season, the 
ATOs captured the championship 
of the hotly contested American 
League. TNTs undefeated soft
ball nine copped the National 
League crown by registering easy 
victories over Citcom and Emanon.
Due to a 1-1 ten-inning tie 
game between the Gringoes and 
Nine Old Men, the championship 
of the Federal League is still un
decided. A loss by the Gringoes 
would cause a deadlock between 
them and the Phi Kaps and ne
cessitate a playoff.
ATO combined 2 walks, a long 
fly, and a fielders choice in the 
sixth inning to break a 3-3 dead
lock, defeating FPHA and cap
turing the league title. Emanon, 
the only threat to TNTs league 
supremacy, fell before the champs 
by a score of 8-2, a four-run TNT 
rally in the fifth inning deciding 
the fray.
In the 8-0 rout of Citcom, Tasso 
Katselas, TNT hurler, set the los
ers down with only one hit. Kat
selas recorded four strikeouts and 
allowed an equal number of bases 
on balls in the best pitching per
formance of the season.
The slugging Sigma Nus pound
ed out two lopsided wins last 
week, defeating Tau Delta Phi, 
13-1, and Citcom, 14-1. Stock and 
Theodore each collected three hits 
in the Tau Delt encounter, while 
Halliday and Theodore led the 20- 
hit attack against Citcom.
The Dramats, definitely the most 
improved aggregation in the Na
tional League, knocked Delta Tau 
Delta out of second place by hand
ing them a 13-3 drubbing. The 
winners displayed an excellent de
fense, catcher Storey and short
stop Adelman being particularly 
brilliant. Big Norm Keats slam
med a four-bagger for the Dra
mats.
In other National League games 
last week, Delta Upsilon defeated 
the Tau Delts, 6-1, with Bill Koch 
again turning in an outstanding 
mound performance; Emanon edg
ed the Dramats, 5-4; and Tau
RODGER'S
DAIRY
Try our
HAMBURGERS
Made with 100% pure beef 
U. S. Government inspected
LARGE MILK SHAKES
Made with pure whole 
milk
RODGERS
Dairy Stores
3905 FORBES STREET 
Near Boquet
4619 CENTER AVENUE 
Near Craig
5414 WALNUT STREET 
Shadyside
Other stores downtown
Tasso Katselas of TNT 
burns one in
Delta Phi committed fewer errors 
than Emanon to win, 12-8.
The Gringoes copped their fifth 
straight win by defeating Sigma 
Nu No. 2, 10-5. Although outhit, 
10-8, the winners were aided by 
a total of 9 bases on balls.
Second place Phi Kappa pound
ed out 15 hits and capitalized on 
Kappa Sigmas poor defensive 
play to win, 21-0. Fleischman, Phi 
Kap hurler gave up only 4 hits, 
4 walks, and fanned 5 Kappa Sig 
batsmen.
Collecting 16 hits and 13 bases 
on balls, Theta Xi trounced Sig
ma Nu No. 2 by a score of 22-3. 
TXs John Ambrose pitched shut
out ball after the first inning.
The Nine Old Men whipped Pi 
Kappa Alpha in a slugfest, 13-6. 
A 6-run rally in the fourth inning 
clinched the game for the Old 
Men. Folland slammed a home run 
for the winners, while Heiles and 
Di Prima collected round-trippers 
for PiKA.
Scoring 4 runs in the eighth in
ning, Dorm Combine B finally 
defeated PiKA, 13-12. The losers
SoftballNational LeagueStandings
WonLostTNT70Sigma Nu No. 142Delta Tau Delta33Delta Upsilon33Dramats23Emanon23Tau Delta Phi24Citcom05American LeagueWonLostATO51Dorm Comb. A42SAE33Beta Sigs33Betas33FPHA24TS15Federal LeagueWonLostGringoes60Phi Kappa61
Theta Xi52Nine Old Men33
Kappa Sigma25Pi Kappa Alpha25Dorm Comb. B25
Sigma Nu No. 216
jumped off to a 7-run lead in the 
first inning but the Dorm nine 
came from behind to tie the count 
at the end of the regulation time 
and went on to win in the extra 
frame.
Overcoming their opponents 
early lead, Theta Xi edged the 
Nine Old Men by an 8-5 count. 
TX catcher Bill Oxley drove in 
the winning runs with a two-run 
single in the fifth and a booming 
two-run homer in the sixth.
Due to confusion in the re
scheduling of postponed games, the 
Gringoes won their sixth game on 
a forfeit by the Kappa Sigs.
Dorm Combine A scored two 
decisive victories to move into 
second place in the American 
League. The Dorm aggregation 
bowled over FPHA, 23-3, in a wild 
game. The victors scored 5 runs 
in the first inning, on no hits, and 
added 5 more markers in the fifth 
when Biss homered with 2 mates 
aboard.
The second Dorm victory was 
[Continued on page 5]
FOUR BARBERS TO 
SERVE YOU
Quick Efficient Service at the
TECH BARBER SHOP
Corner of Craig and Forbes
is the easiest of all! Dont tote 
that bag and lift that luggage all 
the way home. Use the College 
WayRAILWAY EXPRESS!
Well pick up all the heavy stuff at your college 
dorm and deliver it to your home. Charges 
include pick-up and delivery in all cities 
and principal towns, and valuation 
coverage up to $50.00 or only 50^ per pound 
over one hundred pounds.
TRAVEL RIGHT BY TRAVELING LIGHT
(Oh, yesyou can send your things home "charges collect)
CALL YOUR RAILWAY EXPRESS OFFICE
K \i 'The'Sqe PR 1 : S S,vt. \( n i Ge o
NATION-WIDE R A11 - A I R SERVICE

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, JUNE 2, 1948THE CABNEGIE TARTAN5
Theta Xi To Keep All-Points 
Trophy For Another Year
Repeat Win With League Table-Tennis Title, 
School Touch Football And Volleyball Titles
Theta Xis star-studded athletic combine, once again as
serting its power, has successfully completed its first defense 
of the intramural All-Points trophy.
The fraternitys massive sum of points assures them of 
possession of the coveted trophy for still another year. Iron
ically the versatile TXs were actually backed into their latest 
title. The last mathematical pos-4
sibility of defeat was eliminated 
last week when Tau Delta Phis 
softball squad stopped runner-up Emanon, 10-6.
The Emanons, who were the 
only serious challengers during 
the year, garnered sufficient points 
for a second place berth while the 
show position went to the Kappa 
Sigma entry.
Jumping off to a quick start, the 
Theta Xis won the intramural 
touch football championship be
hind sparkling performances by 
their bespectackled backfield ace, 
Nels Greene, and their veteran 
end, Elmer Kaelin. With the lead 
once in their possession the TXs 
refused to be overtaken.
Another school championship in 
volleyball and a league title in 
table tennis kept them well in 
front of the hard working Emanon 
squad.
The Emanons championship ef
forts in bowling, plus league hon
ors in soccer and volleyball kept 
them in the thick of the race. Time 
and again they fought back within 
striking distance of the TXs only 
to find the leaders piling up an
other big margin. A last game ef
fort to forge ahead of the pace
setters was thwarted by a stout 
PiKA basketball five which edged 
their independent rivals in a bid 
for the league and campus crown.
Trailing in the third spot, the 
Kappa Sigs ruled as soccer and 
foul shooting champions and also 
copped a second place in basket
ball to lead the remainder of the 
organizations to the finish.
With the softball title still un
claimed, no exact tabulation of 
points is available. However, all 
three of the leaders have accumu
lated enough points to assure them 
of their present positions when 
the final results are tabulated.
Carnegie Golfers 
Place Second In 
Three-Way Match
Shov/ing much improvement 
over their previous matches, the 
Carnegie Tech golfers placed sec
ond in a three-way match with 
Grove City and Washington and 
Jefferson last week.
Grove City, victors in a previ
ous match with the Tartans by a 
score fo 14% to 3Y2, found the 
going much harder as they won 
this match by only three points in 
finishing with a 10 to total. 
In beating the third place Prexies, 
however, the Skibos found them
selves on the large end of IVz3% score.
Captain Stan Kwolek was able 
to garner three of six possible 
points as his teammate Schiller 
led the squad with a six point 
sweep over Maggee of Grove City 
and Doolittle of Washington-Jefferson. Johnson of the Tartans 
was second high man with a five 
point total.
Low ball honors went to Polar r 
inski of the Grovers whose 78 led 
the three competing squads.
Grove City:Aiken280Allen2 Vi79Davis195Polarinski378Telenson290Maggee095Carnegie Tech
Kwolek183
DeanVa87
Johnson285
Sill088Euwer189
Schiller383
w & JWertz193
Kahn21/288
Forrest088
Sutherland089
Fullerton093
Doolittle093
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched to WtWroet
Because He Flunked The Finger Mail est
THIS IS no yoke, son. If people have been caffiogOKXi. egg
head because your hair looks soft-boiled, heres eggs-ad^ 
what to do. Get busy with popular Wildroot Cream-Oil*hair 
tonic. It grooms your hair neatly and naturally Wbouttkat 
gooey look. Relieves annoying dryness and removelooserujjfcjr 
dandruff. Helps you pass the Fingernail Teat f WildroofcC*ean>- 
Oil is non-alcoholic ... contains soothing Lanolin. Gefcatabc 
or bottle of Wildroot Cream-Oil at any drug or feoBet goods 
counter today. Always ask your barber for a professional 
application. (Better be hard-boiled with your 
keep egging him to get some Wildroot Cream-Oil artn 
tts tops for keeping your sunny side upf)
% o/327 Burroughs Drive, Snyder, N. Y.
Wildroot Company, Inc., Buffalo 11, N. Y.
Jim Taylor in action
Taylor Takes 
In All Sports
He Stars In Varsity 
Swimming And Tennis
Having featured men who excel 
in only one or two sports, the 
spotlight now turns to Jimmy 
Taylor, one of the most versatile 
athletes at CIT. He participates 
in all sports  varsity tennis and 
swimming and intramural foot
ball, basketball, volleyball, hand
ball, softball, and ping-pong.
Taylor holds two varsity letters 
in tennis for 46-47 and 47-48 
and also holds a varsity letter in 
diving for the 42-43 season. Be
cause of bad breaks, his tennis 
record this year stands at 3-3 for 
singles competition, but he is con
fident #of finishing the season in 
his best form.
In addition to varsity competi
tion, he holds the titles of pingpong singles champion for 1943 
and handball singles champion for 
the current year. His accomplish
ments are not limited to individ
ual competition, however, as he 
participated in many intramural 
team sports for Kappa Sigma fra
ternity, of which he is an active 
member. At the Kappa Sigma 
Christmas party last December he 
was voted the man most likely 
to be found in the gym.
After graduating from Peabody 
High School in February, 1942, 
Jimmy entered CITs management 
engineering department the fol
lowing fall. He held a Buhl Foun
dation Scholarship as a freshman, 
the same year that he won his 
varsity diving letter and the pingpong singles championship. Upon 
completing a stretch with the in
fantry in Europe, he returned to 
Carnegie in 1946 to complete his 
college education. It was then that 
he embarked upon his varsity ten
nis career.
In addition to the regular senior 
management engineering course, 
Taylor is also, by special permis
sion, taking a free-hand drawing
School To Absorb Cost 
Of Intramural Injuries
President Doherty Gives Official
Authorization To Medical Plan
Plans have been completed for CIT to absorb expenses in
curred because of injuries in intramural athletics. This addi
tion to the student health program has already gone into full 
operation.
The new feature, which was officially authorized by Presi
dent Robert E. Doherty on April 7, is designed to provide fr 
medical expenditures resulting^------------------------------------------------
from accidents in intramural ath
letics, physical education classes, 
and minor varsity sports.
Until recently no formal pro
cedure for payment of such bene
fits was formulated, and students 
were still confronted with personal 
bills for injuries. However, the 
last technicality was overcome on 
May 14 when Dr. D. F. Miner, di
rector of student personnel and 
welfare, issued the following 
recommendation of procedure: 
Written authorization for treat
ment or X-rays is to be given by 
the school physicians or represen
tatives whom they'may designate. The bill for such treatment is to 
be sent by the hospital to the head 
of the student health department 
for his approval, after which it 
will be sent to the controllers of
fice for payment.
If treatment has been author
ized since April 7 and the bill has 
been sent to the individual stu
dent, he should turn it over to the 
head of the student health depart
ment for approval and payment by 
the controller.
Correction
The farewell banquet for Bert Munhall will be held on 
Saturday, June 5 in the Car
negie Inn. In last weeks issue 
the date appeared as June 15, 
due to typographical error.
Softball
[Continued from page 4] 
over last place TS, 19-2. Comis, 
Dorm pitcher, connected for a 
home run in the first inning with 
two men on base, and Young add
ed a four-master in the third with 
none on.
Playing a ragged defensive 
game, SAE dropped their contest 
with the Beta Sigs, 7-5. Eight er
rors by the losers contributed to 
the Beta Sig victory.
The SAEs bounced back in their 
next game to overpower the Betas, 
12-2. Earl Butts limited the losers 
to two hits, while his teammates 
pounded out a total of 13 hits.
course. Besides working with 
charcoal, pencil, water colors and 
oils, this artistic engineer is a 
tenor in the mens glee club.
Most Up-to-Date Restaurant in Oakland
BETSY ROSS TEA ROOM
3716 Forbes Street 
 IDEAL LUNCHES  TASTY SANDWICHES
3 Hour Dry Cleaning
Raincoats Showerproofed
CAMPUS CLEANERS
4609 Forbes St. MUseum 1288
Just whom the school physicians will designate as their represen
tatives was not known, but all in
dications were that the nurses on 
duty, together with Mr. David See. 
head of intramural activities, will 
receive the assignment.
The final step in completing the 
plans brings to a close a year long 
battle waged on behalf of non- varsity athletes. The first progress 
toward the new project was mado 
last fall by the Intramural board, 
which attempted to secure a $250 
annual appropriation from the 
health fund for medical expenses 
of intramural athletes.
The student health committee 
and the board failed to reach a decision, however, and no results 
were forthcoming until Dr. Miner 
and the board originated the 
present plan and secured President 
Dohertys approval.
The new extension, coupled with 
the original health program, cov
ers competitors injured in all types 
of athletic activities at CIT.
IH232 Remodeled 
For Mgt. Dept.
Renovation of IH232 into a new 
room for management engineers 
will begin this summer. The large 
near-empty room, resembling the 
main library in size but not in fa
cilities, is to be partitioned into 
two separate roomsone directly 
above the other.
The lower floor will contain 
four parts: a student-training
seminar office, a project room, a 
conference room, and a reading 
room-library combination. The 
upper floor will consist of labora
tories for quantitative control, ac
counting, and time and motion 
study, and a conference room.
Arts Night
[Continued from page 1]
dents* in the music department. 
Two experimental motion pictures 
by the P&D film group conclud
ed the program.
Particularly interesting was the 
manner in which the idea of Arts 
Night came to life. A scant few 
weeks previously a group of stu
dents from all departments spon
taneously formed a committee, 
elected George Corrin their chair
man, and set to work.
They proved without a doubt 
that Arts Night is a wanted and 
needed yearly project for the 
whole College of Fine Arts; they 
have gone far to break through 
the separation between depart
ments that has grown up through 
the years.
Next year, given more time, 
they plan an even more ambitious 
program built around a central 
theme showing how certain prin
ciples govern all the arts.
EXPERT REPAIRS
RADIOS, PHONOGRAPHS, APPLIANCES
Sales and Service
LEWIS RADIO 
ELECTRIC CO.
1133 OAKLAND AVE. MA. 4211
Bring Your Radio Problems 
To Us
it YEARS EXPERIENCE
At Your Service

---------------------------------------------------

6THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, JUNE 2, 1948
Bulletin Board
Band Concert
Popular concert numbers, such 
as Victor Herberts Favorites 
and Smoke Gets in Your Eyes, 
will be featured at the Kiltie Band 
campus concert next week.
James Thompson will be the so
loist, playing Arthur Prayors scin
tillating arrangement of Blue 
Bells of Scotland for trombone 
and band.
The date is Tuesday, June 8 at 
11:30 a.m., and the place, Fine 
Arts lawn.
Veterans Notice
Veterans living in fraternity 
houses may make arrangements 
for receiving their June and July 
checks by coming to the Veter
ans center, IH 152, not later than 
June 12.
APO Dinner
Alpha Phi Omega, national 
service fraternity, will hold a din
ner-meeting at the Carnegie 
Union on Thursday, June 3. Ini
tiation of the spring pledge class 
will begin at 4:30 and dinner will 
follow at 6:00. Dr. R. D. Gregg, 
senior faculty advisor for A. P. O. 
for a number of years, will be 
guest speaker at the dinner.
Installation of the newly elect
ed officers, who will serve until 
November, will complete the eve
nings business. Those officers 
are: president, Henry Perry; vice 
presidents, William Clark and 
Ludwig Benner; recording secre
tary, Harry Silverman; correspon
dence secretary, Joe Weinreich; 
treasurer, Don Koenig; historian, 
Clark Sloan; alumni secretary, 
Charles Vaughn; senior faculty 
advisor, Kent D. Shaffer.
Special Ceremony
Mr. Pierre Aigrain, CIT student 
from France, will receive his doc
tor of science degree in electrical 
engineering at a private com
mencement in Doctor Dohertys 
office on Friday, June 4.
Mr. Aigrains recall to the 
French Navy, effective one week 
before the all-school commence
ment, makes the special ceremony 
necessary.
Arts Honorary 
Re-activated
The Gamma chapter of Tau 
Sigma Delta Honorary Arts fra
ternity has recently been re-ac
tivated on campus. This society, 
which chooses its members from 
students taking courses in archi
tecture and the associated arts, 
has been inactive since 1941.
Officers of the honorary are: Lee 
Kirk Watkins, chapter master; 
Corinne DeChicchis, chapter 
scribe; and Kenneth Beittel, 
chapter recorder.
Members from the architecture 
department include: Mason Aid- rich, John Hackler, John T. Kel
ly, Thomas Madden, and J. Nessly Porter. Among the members 
from the painting and design de
partment are: Leila Davies, Bev
erly Huggler, John P. Fisher, Lee 
Goldman, Edward Groborchik* 
Russel Kulberg, Philip Pearl- j 
stein, James Soisson, Stuart Wil- I 
liams, and Francis Yost.
The aims of the local chapter 
are to stimulate closer coopera
tion between the various depart
ments in the school of Fine Arts; 
to have articles on various cam
pus activities published in the 
campus publications; to plan as
sembly programs, exhibitions, and 
discussion meetings alone or in co
operation with other Fine Arts groups.
YM-YWCA Retreat
The 18th annual Y. M.-Y. W. C. 
A. retreat will be held this year 
at Cooks Forest during the week
end of June 4-6. Although spon
sored by the two organizations, 
the retreat is an all-school affair.
The charge will be $5.00 per 
person, including transportation 
in private cars. The party will 
leave school at 3:30 p. m. Friday, 
June 4.
This years theme will be Ap
plied Christianity in international 
affairs, in campus life, and in pri
vate life. Dr. William Orr of 
Western Theological Seminary 
will be the general leader of the 
retreat.
Student Recital
Two students of the music de
partment will present a joint re
cital on Sunday evening, June 6, 
at 8:15 p. m. in the exhibition 
room of Fine Arts.
Leuba Korolishon, soprano, and 
Aureen Litt, pianist, will be the 
solosist. Imogene Grove will be 
accompanist to Miss Korolishon.
Faculty Musical
A recital of chamber music will 
be presented on June 6, at 8:30 
p.m., in the Carnegie Union by 
Mr. Victor Saudek, instructor in 
the music department.
Faculty members of the depart
ment will be featured soloists.
SAM Banquet
SAM will hold its second an
nual banquet at 6:30 p.m. on June 
3 at the Pittsburgh Athletic asso
ciation. It will be a mixed event 
for members of SAM and their 
wives or dates.
The speaker will be Mr. G. A. 
Palmer, personnel manager of the 
Joseph Horne company. Enter
tainment will be furnished by the 
Highlander quartet. Favors are 
being supplied by various manu
facturing companies, and several 
door prizes will be awarded.
Sigma Xi /
The Carnegie Tech chapter of 
Sigma Xi, an honorary society 
whose purpose is to stimulate and 
honor research in the fields of sci
ence and engineering, recently 
elected twenty new members and 
associates.
The initiation ceremony, which 
was followed by a banquet, was 
held on Friday, May 28, at the 
University club. Dr. Francis C. 
Frary, Director of the Aluminum 
Research Laboratories Company 
of America, spoke on Industrial 
Research as a Career.
Student Council
[Continued from page 3]
A request from the Varsity CClub to use 185 dollars for the 
manufacture of Carnegie Tech li
cense plate attachments was 
granted. Bugets for the Beaux 
Arts society, the Kiltie Band, the 
Chapel Choir, and the Carnegie 
Home Economics club were also 
approved.
Marilyn Allshouses motion to 
approve keys for the Mens Glee 
club was, on a motion by Bennard Perlman, tabled until next 
week. Motions for the approval 
of the key nominations for Citcom Clan and the Womens Dor
mitory council were passed. To 
clear up an apparent misunder
standing, an announcement was 
made that keys would continue to 
be presented by the various activties until such time as Council 
approves a new key system._ 
The resignation of Francis 
Brandi, non-voting councilman 
from the College of Fine Arts, was 
accepted.
Pi Mu E Meeting
The CIT chapter of the national 
honorary mathematical fraternity, 
Pi Mu Epsilon, will hold its final 
open meeting of the academic year
on Friday, June 4, at 3:30 p.m. 
This meeting will be held in IH 
104 and is open to all interested 
faculty members and students.
Mr. D. L. Whitehead of the 
Westinghouse Electric corporation
will give an illustrated lecture on 
the Electrical Analog Computer. 
Under his direction, Westing
house has just completed the con
struction of an electrical analog 
computer at a cost of $200,000.
over America... Smokers ReportHO CI6ABETTIHAHGOVER
when you smoke PHILIP MORRIS!
because uirlrR advwO rODEFINITELY UESS 
iWttTAHNB
than any other leading brand.
Every day . . . more and more 
people are discovering in PHILIP 
MORRIS a milder smoke, a 
fresher, cleaner smoke than 
theyve ever known before!
If youre tired of cigarette hang
overtired of that stale, musty 
taste in your mouththat dry, 
smoked-out feeling in your 
throat . . . join the millions who 
CALL FOR PHILIP MORRIS.
*
Remember ... PHILIP MORRIS is the 
ONE the ONLYleading cigarette rec
ognized by eminent nose and 
throat specialists as definitely less 
irritating!
NO OTHER CIGARETTE 
CAN MAKE THAT STATEMENT!
.
Read Wnat One of Americas Top-Ranking 
Doctors Says About PHILIP MORRIS
"There is no doubt in my mind that 
PHILIP MORRIS Cigarettes are much 
less irritating than other ciga
rettes. We would be neglecting our 
patients who smoke i f we did not sug
gest that they smoke PHILIP MORRIS."
i From one of a series of PROFESSIONAL STATEMENTS 
by EMINENT NOSE and THROAT SPECIALISTS.
U-' %PHILI
You'll be glad TOMORROW- you smoked uirlrR advvrO TODAY !

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, JUNE 2, 1948THE CARNEGIE TARTAN7
* * THE CARNEGIE PLAID * *
______________________Page Edited by Evening School Students of Carnegie Institute of Technology
Registration On Friday, June 18 
For Supplementary Term
Students Should Present Original Receipts; 
Schedule of Classes Effective June 21
Registration for the Supplementary Term will be held on Friday 
evening, June 18, between 7:00 and 9:00 in Mr. Kelways office, room 
132-A, Industries Hall. The schedule of classes goes into effect on 
Monday evening, June 21. No classes will be held on Monday, June 5. 
In registering, students should present their original registration
receipt cards. The tuition fee for * 
each subject is indicated in paren
thesis in the following schedule:
S-211College Algerbra (8) 
M. W. F. 7:30-9:30, I. H. 215 ($40.80).
S-212Trigonometry (8)  M. 
W. F. 7:30-9:30, I. H. 211  
($40.80).
S-213Analytic Geometry (8) 
M. W. F. 7:30-9:30, I. H. 208 
($40.80).
S-214Calculus I (8)M. W. F. 7:30-9:30, I. H. 209($40.80).
S-215Calculus II (8)M. W. 
F. 7:30-9:30, I. H. 210($40.80).
S-216Calculus III (8)M. W. 
F. 7:30-9:30, I. H. 229-B  
($40.80).
C-109English I (9)M. W. F.
Editorial
With this issue of the PLAID, 
another year of the evening stu
dents news page goes into history. Many enjoyable evenings of 
work in the Plaid office go with 
the'paper as we close the year.
The staff has endeavored to 
present features of interest to the 
evening student. We have pro
moted student expression through 
letters to the editor. We have 
publicized the social affairs spon
sored by council in addition to 
organizations reactivated on cam
pus. Although our efforts have 
borne some fruit, the crop has 
been anything but abundant! This 
is where we leave the PLAID for 
another year.
Next year, we will continue to 
serve the evening students to the 
best of our ability, but without 
their help and interest, we nat
urally fall short of our goal. And 
so our parting word is a thank 
you for your cooperation. But 
more than this, we want to ask 
for continued support of councilsponsored activities in the com
ing year.
Evening school can be fun and 
the PLAID can merely tell you 
about it; but you can enjoy it with 
others of evening school by taking 
an active part in council, the 
PLAID and their sponsored ac
tivities.
Phi Gamma Pi 
Hears Reports 
At Final Meeting
Phi Gamma Pi held its final 
business meeting of the year on 
Sunday, May 23rd, at Carnegie 
Union.
Reports detailing the present 
status of the two-year-old organ
ization were read by the various 
committee heads after which Miss 
Capelli, president, expressed her 
gratitude and appreciation to the 
officers and members for their 
splendid cooperation in carrying 
out the years activities.
Gloria Pollack, banquet chair
man, reported final arrangements 
completed for the banquet to be 
held in the University Club, June
23, and urged members to make 
reservations through the officers 
or banquet committee as soon as 
possible.
Following the business meeting, 
group pictures were taken in front 
of the Union for Phi Gamma Pis 
scrap book. Orders will be taken 
for the pictures at the banquet.
7:30-9:30, I. H. 237-A($37.80).
C-110English I (9)M. W. F. 
7:30-9:30, I. H. 235-B($37.80).
C-401Enomocis I (9)M. Th. 
7:00-10:00, I. H. 251($37.80).
C-402Economics II (9)Tu.
F. 7:00-10:00, I. H. 251($37.80).
C-465Business Law (9)  M. 
W. 7:00-10:00, I. H. 247($37.80).
S-102  Gen. Chemistry (9) 
Rec. or Lee.  M. W. Th. 7:30- 
9:30, E. H. 218, 215  Lab.  F. 
7:00-10:30, E. H. 218, 214 
($45.90)
S-231Statics (8)M. W. F. 
7:30-9:30, I. H. 319-A($40.80).
S-232Dynamics (8)M. W. F. 
7:30-9:30, I. H. 319-E($40.80).
S-233Str. of Materials (8)  
M. W. F. 7:30-9:30, I. H. 235-A 
($40.80).
S-405bPhysics I (9)Rec. or 
Lee. M. W. 7:30-8:30, F. 7:30- 
9:30, E. H. 209, 111Lab.M. W. 
8:30-10:30, E. H. 204, 102 
($45.90).
S-406bPhysics II (9)Rec. or 
Lee M. W. 7:30-8:30, F. 7:30- 
9:30, E. H. 209, 100Lab.M. W. 
8:30-10:30, E. H. 300-B, 107  
($45.90).
E-801Drwg. & Desc. Geom. I 
(9)M. W. F. 6:30-10:30, I. H. 355 
($45.90).
E-802Drwg. & Desc. Geom. II 
(9)M. W. F. 6:30-10:30, I. H. 355 
($45.90).E-201Surveying (9)M. W. 
6:30-9:30, Sat. 1:30-4:30E. H. 60, 
54($45.90).
E-202Surveying (9)  M. W. 
6:30-9:30, Sat. 1:30-4:30E. H. 60, 
54($45.90).
Any student who wishes infor
mation or advice concerning his 
plans for the Supplementary 
Term should call at the Office of 
the Registrar of Evening Classes.
Phi Kappa Phi 
Calls Two Men
Honorary Chooses 
Slebodnik, Martello
Phi Kappa Phi is a national hon
orary established with the object of emphasizing scholarship and 
character in the thought of col
lege students to foster the sig
nificant purposes for which in
stitutions of higher learning have 
been founded and to stimulate 
mental achievement by recogni
tion through election to member
ship.
Student members are chosen 
from the upper tenth of the jun
ior and senior classes of the three 
colleges. The chapter at Carnegie 
Tech also includes faculty mem
bers.
This year, Phi Kappa Phi, has 
chosen two of evening schools 
honor students, Thomas W. Sle
bodnik, electrical engineer and 
Norman Martello, chemical engi
neer. Mr. Martello, employed by 
Hagan Corporation, was also 
awarded the evening student 
council achievement award. Mr. 
Slebodnik is nat quite so wellknown to evening students, but 
his factor is testimony of his 
eligibility to this honorary society. 
Mr. Slebodnik, employed by Westinghouse Electrical Corp., is also 
a member of Eta Kappa Nu, the 
electrical honorary.
Mrs. Amelia Hays To Resign 
As Carnegie Union Hostess
Next year when we return to 
the Union for our Friday night 
sessions, much of the place will 
be the same. The impressive en
trance, those wood-paneled walls 
and the serenity of Carnegie Un
ion will be as always. But there 
is one person in the calm atmos
phere who will be missing.
Mrs. Amelia Hays, hostess of the 
Union, is leaving this spring. 
Where she will go and whose com
pany she will grace is still un
known to us. What we do know 
is that she will be missed by eve
ning students.
During the past three years m 
which Mrs. Hays has been hostess 
at the Union, evening school has 
profited endlessly by her capable 
help and graciousness. In her 
crowded schedule of parties, meet
ings and receptions, she always 
has time to greet us and aid us 
when we go to her for help. Her 
unlimited store of hostess knowl
edge has contributed to all our 
parties. For these practical things, 
we will miss Mrs. Hays, but miss
ed more will be her friendliness, 
graciousness and understanding.
Mrs. Hays is an avid cross-word 
puzzle fan and Sunday afternoon, 
the day for our sorority, frater
nity and council meetings, is the 
day for her to concentrate on 
cross-word puzzles. It has become 
the habit for some of us to stop 
in her room and help her. It is 
such casual dropping in on Mrs. 
Hays which has endeared her to 
all of us. We will miss you, Mrs. 
Hays.
No matter where Mrs. Hays will 
be next year, there will be an 
automatic look by evening stu
dents with the hope that she may 
be in her room at the Union. We 
will think of her, with hopes for 
her return.
All of us wish Mrs. Hays the 
best of luck for she is one who 
deserves it. The students she will 
be with next year will be fortu
nate ones for they will gain a 
wealth of understanding, gracious
ness and kindness through asso
ciation with Mrs. Hays.
The Carnegie Plaid
Editor 
Cecille Zellner 
News Editor 
Anne Shack 
Associate Editors 
George Bogovich Catherine RomanoffPage edited by Evening School students of Carnegie Institute of Technology. All views or opinions expressed in editorial column are not necessarily en
dorsed by the Editorial Board of the Day School staff.
StaffLou Adams George DawesRay Schwalm Charlene J. ToheyBill Wallace A1 SnowdenFrank Mihelic Jim FlahertyPat Schaffer
Thistle Finances
[Continued from page 3] 
ically because of the negligible 
cost of photography. Now that en
graving and printing costs have 
increased, this low price can no 
longer be maintained.
In order to increase the amount 
of advertising which forms the 
major source of revenue, the This
tle desires more personnel for its 
advertising staff. If more adver
tisements are obtained, more stu
dent photographs can be included 
in an enlarged Thistle.
you ought to know
516,500It takes this number of men and women 
to operate the twenty-two Bell Telephone Compa
nies. Each operating company is responsible for fur
nishing telephone service within its own territory.
26,000The number of people who are employed 
in the Long Lines Department of the American 
Telephone and Telegraph Company. It is their func
tion to provide Long Distance and Overseas service.1
*31,400This numbers the employees of the West
ern Electric Company who manufacture, purchase 
and distribute equipment and supplies for the entire 
Bell System.
2,100Thats the number of people in the Ameri
can Telephone and Telegraph Company. Through 
advice and assistance, they coordinate the activities 
of the entire Bell System.
In all, there are some 682,000 men and 
women in the Bell System. As this coun
trys communications service is expanded 
and improved, opportunities will grow still 
greater. Theres a future in 'telephony.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
6,000Thats the number of people in Bell Tele
phone Laboratories. Through research and develop
ment they constantly improve this countrys tele
phone servicealready the finest in the world.

---------------------------------------------------

8THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, JUNE 2, 1948
CASHPAID
or you can trade your
OLD TEXT BOOKS
for
30% MORE
On Any Merchandise In The Store
($4.00 in used text books buys $5.20 in goods)
OFFER EXTENDS UNTIL JUNE 21, 1948
$4 IN USED TEXTS 
BUYS $5.20 IN 
MERCHANDISE
Trade In Your Old 
Text Books On A New 
Portable Typewriter
STUDENT
BOOK
EXCHANGE
3811 FIFTH AVENUE
