The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 38 No. 48
Fighting CIT Skibos 
Again Triumph Over 
Allegheny Team, 53-43
The Tech basketball team broke 
its five-game losing streak last Wed
nesday by downing the Allegheny 
Alligators for the second time this 
season, this time by a 53,-43 score.
Tech, as usual, was pushed all 
over the floor in the opening stan
zas, but put on a second-half drive 
to win. The score was nine to zero 
in Alleghenys favor before the Tar
tans got even one point, and the 
first quarter ended with Allegheny 
ahead 17-10. Maxies boys found 
themselves a bit in the second act 
to shave the lead, and bring the 
gap down to three poiiits. A fairly 
even third quarter led to a Tech 
outburst later which gave them 23 
points in the clincher. Most of this 
scoring was accounted for by Katselas (20 points), Ackermann (19 
points) and Morinello.
It must be said on the Allegheny 
side of the ledger that they were 
handicapped by the absence of their 
Captain, Frank Fuller. Zan Donald
son, the man who replaced him, 
though, did well by the job as he 
accounted for nineteen points. Box 
score:
Carnegie Tech G F P | Allegheny G F P
Katselas ............... 8 4 20 j Hollenbeck ... 4 0 8
Simpson ................1 0 2 | Ward ................3 1 7
Ackerman .........7 4 18 | Donaldson .... 8 3 19
Klein ................... 0 1 lj Reed 1 1 3
Fastuca ............... 2 0 4 I Smoot ............... 1 0 2
Morinello ........... 4 0 8 j Jones .................. 2 0 4
22 9 53{ 19 5 43
Four Awards Offered 
For Dramatic Writing
Four awards are being offered for 
dramatic writing in the tenth an
nual competition of the Dramatists 
Alliance of Stanford University. 
The Stevens Award of one hundred 
dollars is offered for serious plays 
of full length in either prose or 
verse, and the Etherage Award of 
one hundred dollars will go to the 
writer of the best full length com
edy. Brief plays of one act, or in 
short unified scenes, may compete 
for the Alden Award of fifty dol
lars. The Gray Award of twenty-five 
dollars will be presented for a dra
matic criticism in lucid, vigorous 
style. All prize winning writings 
and the leading contributions 
continued on page 7
From the President
The Office of Defense Trans
portation has requested that schools, 
colleges, and universities forego 
their customary spring . vacations 
this year. Since the spring recess at 
Carnegie Institute of Technology 
is only two days in length, there is 
small likelihood that students from 
outside the Pittsburgh district will 
attempt to go home at that time, and 
therefore cancellation of the recess 
seems to be unnecessary. If there 
are any students who do plan to 
travel, however, they are urged to 
reconsider in the light of the request 
of the Office of Defense Trans
portation.
Sincerely yours,
ROBERT E. DOHERTY.
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, MARCH 6, 1945
CIT Favorite Girl. Bond Queen 
Boost Purchase of Ambulance
This is the Ambulance were buying with:
Bonds!!
Concurrent with the present War 
Bond Drive, is a contest to deter
mine a Bond Queen. All girls are 
eligible to enter. The girl sellings 
the most bonds in or out of school 
will be crowned Bond Queen.
Those interested in this contest 
should get the official bond blanks 
from the cashiers office between 9 
A. M. and 4 P. M; The students dis
tribute the blanks to whoever wants 
to purchase a bond. The person then 
takes the blank to his own bank, 
where it is stamped when the bond 
is bought. The stamped blank is re
turned to the student who turns it in 
at the cashiers office with her name, 
department, and .year on the reverse 
side.
The amount of bonds and stamps 
sold as of last Wednesday, Febru
ary 28, is $1,616.25, and it is hoped 
that the Bond Queen Contest will 
prove a further stimulus.
Blood Donor Drive 
Starts On March 8
In the second Red Cross blood 
donor drive of the season on March
8, 9, and 10 at the Wabash Building, 
Carnegie will try to increase its 
quota to two hundred pints. To pro
mote a spirit of competition be
tween the students, the different de
partments of Maggie Murph, Fine 
Arts, and Engineering will compete 
on a percentage basis for top honors. 
Alumni and night school students 
may also participate in the drive by 
sending their names and desired ap
pointment times to Mortar Board 
through Inter-School Mail.
Day students wishing to contrib
ute blood may make an appointment 
at the Canteen on any school day 
from 11 A. M. to 5 P. M. On one of 
the three days of the drive each 
donor will be excused from classes 
for two hours to keep his appoint
ment.
The drive is being sponsored un
der the direction of Margie McKee, 
Chairman, and Rea Simon Elias, as
sistant chairman with Peg Cole and 
continued on page 7
Stamps!!
This is the week during which 
the CIT Favorite Girl will be chosen 
by all Carnegie Tech students buy
ing two or more war stamps at any 
one of the booths established on 
campus.
Those voting at the booth in In
dustries Hall will select the prettiest 
lips, those in Arts, the prettiest nose, 
those inM.M.C.C., the prettiest eyes, 
and those in the Canteen, the pret
tiest hair. The Tartan will then 
publish a composite picture of the 
selected* features which will repre
sent the C.I.T. Favorite Girl.
When the booths closed last Wed
nesday, February 28, the records 
showed that of the required $3,430, 
over a thousand dollars had already 
been taken in. There are only eight 
weeks left in which to raise the rest 
of the money.
Its up to every loyal Tech student 
to do it!
Tartan Revives Old 
Column Next Week
Beginning with next weeks issue, 
the Carnegie Tartan will publish a 
weekly column exclusively for an
nouncements of campus activities.
In order that no group be slighted, 
we ask that responsibility for the 
announcements be with the organ
izations themselves, rather than 
with our reporters. For this reason, 
each organization is asked to send 
the information it wishes published 
to the Carnegie Tartan, Box 409, 
via inter-school mail, by noon of 
the Friday preceding the issue in 
which their announcements are to 
appear.
Notice
The TARTAN staff has discontin
ued working on Sunday afternoons, 
and in its place, meetings will begin 
at 5:00 Friday afternoons. All re
porters are required to be at IH 232 
at 5:00 promptly this Friday so that 
the new system, which will go into 
effect as of that meeting, can be ex
plained. Please be prompt.
Tartan Will Print 
Candidates Policy
All students who are running for 
election to the Activities Council 
are expected to publish a short 
statement of their platforms in next 
weeks issue of the Tartan. In order 
to have good representative student 
government the students must know 
their candidates and exactly what 
their ideas are. Space is available on 
all the campus bulletin boards for 
campaign material, but the best way 
to reach the majority of the students 
is by advertising in the Tartan. Peo
ple are much more likely to vote for 
a candidate who presents his plat
form in definite, clear-cut form than 
one who is vague and changeable in 
his policies. Also people are less 
likely to gripe about the govern
ment if they realize that they knew 
beforehand what to expect from 
their candidates. It is not only a 
conscientious candidate but a wise 
one who publishes his platform be
fore the election.
The Activities Council itself de
cided that the policy of printing in 
the Tartan the platforms of candi
dates, which was adopted recently 
at the election of Engineering Rep
resentative to the Council, should 
be continued in the future. Of 
course, candidates for other offices 
than representatives on the Activi
ties Council may have space in the 
Tartan to carry on their campaigns, 
but those running for AC are ex
pected to.
Material to be printed in the pa
per should be sent to the Tartan of
fice by inter-school mail, box 409, 
before 5:00 Friday afternoon. Pic
tures presented by candidates will 
be published along with their statecontinued on page 7
Delts, T.X/s, Betas 
Win In Intramurals
Only three games were gotten off 
the schedule this week in the intra
mural league, but some definite 
trends were shown.
On Monday the Delts staked their 
claim for the championship by 
downing the SAEs to the tune of
28-23. The Delts held a slight lead 
all the way inspite of Dave Saylors 
five fielder splurge in the second 
half. There was an SAE protest re
corded because of a mixup in scor
ing, but this has not been acted on 
by the Intramural Board.
The TXs, too, showed surprising 
power as they downed Theta Tau 
by a lopsided 41-13 score. Tommy 
Barnhart garnered the scoring hon
ors for TX with five field goals in 
the second half.
Also last week, the Betas thump
ed the DUs by a 25-17 margin. Per
haps we should say Jim Lee thump
ed the DUs, for he accounted per
sonally for sixteen of the points col
lected by the Betas.
The games Wednesday were post
poned because the varsity had an 
away game, and the Tecvets for
feited to Cameron Hall to give the 
dorm its first win of the season.

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 6, 1945
. . ZJUtoriL A^uncJuUn> . .
The Frat and Dorm Curfew
It was announced last week that 1:30 a.m. permissions on Saturday nights 
for dormitory students would be replaced by 12:30 permissions in conformity 
with the W.M.C. ruling that a midnight curfew prevail on all places of amuse
ment. We must take issue with this order for many reasons.
Firstly, places of amusement, by the Commissions definition, are primarily 
those serving liquor, that is, bars and nightclubs. Are we to infer, then, from 
this new restriction, that the administration believes the dorm girls spend their 
Saturday nights in bars? This is rather a hard pill to swallow. We have 
always thought that C.I.T. girls were forbidden to patronize those places at 
all. It appears that the school is trying to avoid admitting what they think 
is a failure in administration by simply casting a heavy shadow over it. If, 
on the other hand, we take the dorm curfew order simply for what its words 
say, the case doesnt hold much water. It amounts to this: Dorm girls are 
not to go to places serving liquor, to begin with. A curfew ruling on dorms 
to coincide with a curfew ruling on bars, then, is rather ridiculous.
burning lights for the other thousands of their patrons. And with the girls in 
an hour early, dorm lights will be burning an extra hour. So, instead of help
ing to save electricity, the administration is helping to waste it by forcing 
double expenditure.
A very important fact seems to have been forgotten. With so many town 
students at Carnegie Tech it is inevitable that there should be many private 
house parties on Saturday nights. It is rather embarrassing to have to say at 
midnight or earlier that you have to leave. And annoying, too. Few parties 
really get started before 10:00 or 11:00. When one has to leave at 12:00 the 
party is spoiled for everyone. Yet only one hour longer may give them a 
feeling of satisfaction.
Weve been under the impression that dorm regulations are usually under 
the jurisdiction of the Dorm Council. The new ruling, however, did not pass 
this body. Why then be hypocritical in having this council and yet not per
mitting it to exercise its understood authority? The situation here is reminis
cent of the German free electionbut you must vote for Hitlerin the days 
of the Fhrers rise to power. If a new ruling isi presented and the Council 
disapproves, then installing the ruling anyway is denying the Councils pur
pose. If the Dorm Council is supposed to be a students organization with 
jurisdiction over all dorm matters the students should be permitted to run it.
We should like to point out to the administration the one fact which 
seems to completely throw their ruling into a cocked hat. The W.M.C. curfew 
order has no effect on Pittsburgh. It changes city entertainment in no way. 
A Pennsylvania law has maintained a Saturday night midnight curfew on just 
those places mentioned by the W.M.C. In other words, the backers of the 
dorm curfew have no leg to stand on if they say the dorm curfew was made 
to comply with the W.M.C. curfew. The dorm curfew as presented is on false 
bases and ultimately unfair.
A large number of the dorm girls are students in the drama department. 
Their schedules during the week are rather long and inflexible. With classes 
during the day and crew or rehearsals during the evening, they have no time 
for themselvesno time, that is, except Saturday night. The one hour being 
taken away from them that night means a great deal. Dramats are not emo
tionless machines, made to work day in and day out, seven days a week. They 
are just as human as students who chose engineering or secretarial courses, 
and they are just as eager to have a good time. They shouldnt have their lit
tle opportunity for a good time taken away from them.
If the administration is worried NOW about what little girls do after 
the bars close at midnight (and apparently the administration believes the 
little girls spend their evenings in bars, or else why the ruling) may we ask 
why they never worried BEFORE when the bars closed at midnight? Why 
the sudden interest in protecting little girls from the preying influences of 
mysterious after-midnight elements? And why think dorm students are little 
girls at all? If they are old enough to be living away from home they must 
be given some credit for judgment and discretion. We feel sure that any girls 
with nothing to do in town would come back to the dorm. .(Or is there a 
ruling that says one cant come in early?)
If the students go to a show in town, they probably do not get out until 
12:00. With the new 12:30 permission, they would have to dash madly from 
the theater, chew their nails frantically until a street car came, and then 
worry all the ride home if they would get back on time. Why must they be 
in a rush on the one night that everyone else takes leisurely? Why cant they 
stop in a restaurant, and then come home without fear of being late? Why 
shouldnt dates have a little time to stay? All this can be done in that one 
hour that has been taken from them. All this is what makes an evening a 
completely pleasant one.
Along with the dorm curfew came a fraternity house curfew. This, too, 
we suppose is in conformity with the government order. The W.M.C. says 
that all places of amusement must be closed at 12:00 midnight. Granted that 
the frat houses are places of amusement, but they are not to be classified with 
bars and night clubs, inasmuch as they do not charge minimum or cover prices, 
nor assess guests for food consumed at a party. They are rather in the class 
of private parties over which the W.M.C. has no control.
If the school feels that by instituting a curfew on the frat houses they are 
saving fuel and electricity, may we remind them that men live in those houses 
and the heat and light-burning would go on whether there are parties there 
or not.
The W.M.C. ruling, we understand, was made in order to save electricity 
and fuel. We fail to see how a dorm curfew would particularly help the con
servation desired. Restaurants, which may be open after twelve, will still be
As with the Dorm Council, the ruling was not passed by the Council of 
Fraternity Presidents which is supposed to be the governing body of fraternity
activities.
The curfew order is neither honest nor fair; it is a swindle. The dorm 
girls and frat men have been swindled; they are entitled to press charges.
Letter To The Freshmen ...
When you came to Tech you prob
ably heard about Freshman Regula
tions. While there will be no active 
period of plebe-ship, the executive 
committee decided that the usual 
traditions exams be given as a means 
of promoting school spirit. All enter
ing freshmen of Carnegie Tech, ex
cept ex-servicemen who wish to be 
excused from the exam, are requir
ed to take it; those who fail will be 
ineligible for campus activities, pub
lications, and intramural sports.
You will be responsible for all of 
the Tech lore in the Student Hand
book, including cheers and songs. If 
you have not obtained your copy, 
you may get it from the Registrars 
office.
The exam will consist of twelve
questions chosen from the Hand
book as follows: four on traditions, 
three on songs, three on campus ge
ography, and two on cheers. There 
will be no true-false guesswork 
questions.
The traditions exam has been 
drawn up and will be given, as 
usual, by Alpha Phi Omega, the 
scouting service fraternity. The pa
pers will be marked and those men
who pass will be listed in the Tar
tan. Those who do not will be given 
a more difficult exam at a later date.
The exam will be given about 
two weeks from this notice; advance 
notification will be listed in the 
Tartan.
John H. Seipel, 
President,
Alpha Phi Omega.
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the 
ttaff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not 
to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2600 PHONE SCHENLEY 48'J
MPMSBNTID row NATIONAL ADVSWTIStNO BY AiteT OfflCC HOUrS Call
National Advertising Service, Inc. Editor-in-chief . Emerson 1808
College Publishers Representative420 Madison ave new York n. y. Business Manager...........Jackson 9896
MPSBNTI D rIToIw  Los APISOBT D LNV WtNwBSTBI
Entered as iwoai-riSH matter In the Pittsburgh Post Office under the Aet of March 8, 1171, 
Published weekly daring school year, except holidays ana examination periods.
Subscription Price #1.10 per yeat.
Editor-in-chief ................................................................................... ............ Adeline Herlick
Business Manager ................................................................................................ Paul Schucker
Managing Editor ..................................................................................................... Clara Herron
Assistant Managing Editor ................................................................................... Augie Binder
Our Humble Opinion
For creating suspense and pro
voking definite audience reactions 
toward the characters they portray
ed, the third cast did a fine job. 
Since acting and characterization 
were the substance of the play, the 
whole plot could have been mur
dered if either of the three actresses 
had failed, but none did. The char
acterization and interpretation of 
the personalities in the play seem
ed to jhave been well realized and 
convincingly passed on to the audi
ence.
Prissy Dodge, who played Lucy
Amorest, the kind patient, balanced 
one, had perhaps the easiest job. Her 
sensible restraint in acting, how
ever, was well in character with 
the part and her gestures and man
nerisms were wisely selected and 
sufficient for th situation. She was 
wholly convincing, yet it seems a 
shame that such a capable actress as 
Prissy Dodge should be typed in 
the same kind of role so often. We 
know she can do equally as well in 
other types.
Sallyann Rosenberg interpreted 
continued on page 6

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MARCH 6, 1945THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
One of the DogsDirt Colymn
O. K. all you stags an hags clean 
out your receivers for the latest con
clusions picked up by the campus 
Fifth Column.
On gandering the bridge hounds 
in the local juke joint Conclusion 
No. 1  The Williams-Jarrett duo 
involves more than cards. We had a 
touch of spring you know. Other 
lucky date baits  Jean Garland, 
Rhoda Mears, Dottie Federman an 
Bernie Barclay seem particularly 
latched on to the Navy. As also was 
the Delt house with V-12s Krummell, Walton, Dorfman, Laing, and 
Duff returning to oogle former 
stampin groundsthe Greeks in
cluded.
Conclusion No. 2Spicey Minor 
prefers P. C. W. gals. Whats wrong, 
Wen, afraid of certain campus 
femmes? But not SAE pledge Jerry 
Staffney  Huh, Audrey? Nor DU 
Smokeyhe loves em all. Speaking 
of life, as we werent, its a trap; 
(courtesy of Eyman) if your grey 
matters getting dusty just collect a 
few of the kernels shelled off by 
Jack Landauyoull find them confusin not amusin! In the line of en
tertainment, whats happened to the 
Andrews SistersCarlo? Too bad 
Peggy Cole and Louise Koenig 
couldnt make Annapolis this week
end . . . Spring also hangin around 
when Patty Werner entertained 
Kappa Sig date while madly finish
ing architectural final ... We wish 
Sue Linderman would give us a 
few tips on how to fascinate that 
mysterious Handsome Ransom 
man. And, incidentally, whats this 
we hear about a certain SAE visit
ing the Delt house Saturday night?
Conclusion No. 3 has it that the 
TXs wish their cat would do some
thing spectacular. Scotty Yurchisons ability to avoid dating is 
slightly that way. As long as were 
on Scotties, we notice Atkinson took
Midsemesters
Oh midsemesters, bane of my ex
istence,
Why must you plague me with such 
persistence?
Each time that midterms pop up 
again
I sing to myself this happy refrain 
How futile!
As 1 burn the proverbial midnight 
oil
And sweat under unaccustomed toil,
I think of naught
But that same old thought
How futile!
When I study math in English class 
I silently mutter, Alack and alas 
How futile!
I agree with the sages
As I turn the pages
Of the book on Middle Ages
How feudal!
For what good are midsemesters ex
cept that they prepare pater 
For shocks to come later?
But what they usually do 
Is bring four parental shocks and 
four cuts in the allowance instead 
of the unavoidable two.
Do you wonder 
Why I ponder
How futile! Audrey Wilkins
our tip concerning Mitchell. On the 
subject of frat pins (incoherent 
arent we?)what Delt is so inter
ested in learning more about Jean 
Witherows? We hear that last Tues
day Cy Hailperin returned from 
Canada with four cartons of cigarets. Resultplenty of friends, but 
now no cigarets. Why worry about 
off campus conquestsat least thats 
what goes up from the C. I. T. fem 
mob drooling over Pitts Naval med 
students. Which brings Conclusion 
No. 4Engineers are wonderful 
all we need is more of em!
Plant you now, dig you later,
Endo.
She is one of the girls that really 
gets around on campus, a blond with 
long, silky hair, soft brown eyes, 
beautiful profile, and curves, with 
an almost unlimited number of male 
admirers, even in these days of the 
manpower shortage. Almost every
one on the campus has seen her and 
knows her, for she is friendly to all, 
and has no difficulty in making 
friends.
This wonderful hurik of feminin
ity, of whom you would probably 
like to know more, is Cindy Belle II, 
a cocker spaniel of royal pedigree 
extending back almost to the May
flower. The pride of the Delts, Cindy 
has been their mascot since early 
last fall, when she moved into the 
Shelter at the tender age of one 
year.
From the first she showed her 
royal blue, aristocratic birth and up
bringing. Blondie quickly adopted 
the Delts, at the same time showing 
disdain and contempt for Betas,
S. A. E.s, T. X.s and G. D. I.s. She 
became openly antagonistic to the 
mailman, who now has rather 
patched trousers, but otherwise she 
has preferred sleeping to being 
watchdog.
At first, Cindy was intensely jeal
ous of all feminine companions of 
the Delts, but soon she realized they 
were not her rivals, and became 
very friendly to regular visitors. 
Now she welcomes the Delts guests 
with outstretched paws and friend
ly bark.
As a true Techite, Cindy has not 
neglected her education. Contrary 
to engineers, however, she seems to 
enjoy Soc Rel, especially when there 
are dog biscuits and cookies to 
munch on. She is so intent on her 
education that not even the admon. . . Cindy Belle II
ishings of several Delts can keep her 
out of Industries or Engineering 
Hall on a cold morning. Besides tak
ing freshman Soc Rel, Cindy has 
shown her intention of completing 
the work in shorter time than possi
ble even under the accelerated pro
gram, and has already taken ad
vanced courses in Chemistry, Sound, 
and Vector Analysis. Showing yet 
again her typical Tech character
istics, she makes regular visits to 
the Canteen, the hangout of Carne
gie.
However, in one respect she is 
but a commoner. Her appetite is 
voracious, equalling that of dogs 
several times her size. Her manners 
are not those approved in the best 
of society, but when youre hungry, 
why worry about manners?
Last but not least, it seems that 
Cindy Belle is in the family way, so 
if anyone would like a beautiful 
pup, send in an application to 5020 
Morewood Place.
PITTSBURGH 
INDUSTRIAL 
ENGINEERING CO.
3939 Butler St., Pittsburgh, Pa.
BUY WAR BONDS
ALBERT L 
BRAHM CO.
MEATS 
Wholesale and Retail
404 PENN AVENUE PITTSBURGH, PA.

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 6, 1945
Big All-Scliool Dance 
Planned By Tecvets
Friday, March 2, the Tecvets held 
their regular monthly meeting at 
which outline of plans was made for 
their forthcoming dance. Bill LeRoys band has been selected for 
this all-school dance which will be 
held March 24 at Thistle Hall. The 
Black Cat will be opened for this 
dance. This promises to be a most 
successful affair of the current term. 
Many unique features will be pre
sented.
One of the steps taken to insure a 
good time for all and to promote a 
bit more campus cordiality is a date 
bureau. Further details will appear 
on campus and in later issues of the 
Tartan.
The meeting also included the 
election of Joe Nutter as the treas
urer of the Tecvets. Two of its mem
bers volunteered their services to 
the Tartan staff. These were Ed 
McMullan and Dick Teller.
SEEMILLER
DAIRY STORE
417 Craig St. 
Milkshakes and Sandwiches
Let's go to
ISALY'S
MILK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM CONES
KLONDXKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the College 
District 
5808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Allies
Fort Pitt is the Place 
to Rent
TYPEWRITERS
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
TARTAN Reporter Explores The Campus, 
Finds Many Fascinating Places In Unknown
^cd&L 9 ft KUcJu . .
Recently Donald W. Watt was 
commissioned an ensign in the 
Naval Reserve and designated a 
Naval Aviator at the Naval Air 
Training Bases, Pensacola, Flori
da. Having recently completed his 
intermediate training at the An
napolis of the Air, he will be or
dered to duty either at air in
structors school for further train
ing or at an operational base. Prior 
to entering the Naval Service, Don
ald W. Watt attended Carnegie 
Tech, for two years where he was a 
member of the Varsity track team.
News has just been received that 
Samuel Kaiser, with the 15th 
A. A. F. in Italy, has been promoted 
to the grade of Staff Sergeant. Sgt. 
Kaiser is an engineer and waist gun
ner on a B-24 Liberator Bomber in 
a veteran group which has flown 
more than 185 bombing missions. 
These include numerous assault on 
enemy targets in Germany and in 
the Balkans. Kaiser, a former C. I. T. 
freshman, entered the army Febru
ary, 1943. He studied aircraft me
chanics at Gulfport, and obtained 
his gunners wings at Laredo, Texas.
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
Succeeding generations of 
many of Pittsburghs pioneer 
families open an account at 
the Mellon National Bank as 
a matter of family tradition 
as soon as they come of age.
MELLON 
NATIONAL BANK
MEMBER FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION
Do you have the spirit of Byrd or 
Columbus or Hudson? Have you 
that adventuresome, exploratory 
curiosity that is titillated by under
ground passageways and secret 
rooms and out of the way places? 
If you are such a person, Tech is 
just the place for you. Have you 
ever groped your way through the 
steam tunnels or crawled and 
climbed around backstage? Its a 
wonderful fascinating school if we 
would ever take time to explore it.
The steam tunnels are a must on 
any list of places to be seen. The 
school is steam heated from a cen
tral plant deep beneath Machinery 
Hall whence originate the steam 
tunnels  tunnels containing the 
pipes which run from building to 
building. With a little imagination 
they could be the sewers of Paris 
or the secret tunnels at Valley 
Forge. They are dark and damp and 
hot and close and lead on endlessly; 
the steam hisses and the leaking 
water runs down on the cement 
floor; the dim light bulbs cast weird 
shadows; your footsteps sound 
strange and remote; you have an 
ominous sense of an intangible 
danger lurking among the pipes, 
lurking in the gloom; you feel im
prisoned and alone. Here and there 
the monotonous repetition is inter
rupted by doors or tunnel sections 
or steps. The steep, narrow, concrete 
steps are reminiscent of old castles
You And Your 
Out-of-Town Friends
will find comfortable 
accommodations 
at
HOTEL 
WEBSTER HALL
Be sure to make your reservations 
well in advance, particularly for
WEEK-END VISITS
Tech Service Men and Women Are 
Especially Welcome
4415 FIFTH AVENUE 
MAyflower 7700
and an occasional barred door adds 
to the dungeonlike atmosphere. Yes, 
they are wonderful, morbid, gloomy 
placesthe steam tunnelsand you 
enter at your own risk.
At the beginning of these tunnels 
is the central heating and power 
plant, a den of mechanical monsters 
which throb and beat and sigh and 
roar and click and rattle. There are 
gigantic, awesome machines and 
small intricate machines. Wheels 
are spinning; pistons move tediously 
back and forth. The uninitiated can 
only feel small, insignificant, and 
impressed under the spell of those 
monsters of our age.
After gaping awhile at the mys
teries of mechanical science, you 
may wander to the shops and labs 
where our engineers learn to master 
these machines. Then before you 
leave, glance at the exhibits in the 
halls, particularly the cases in which 
are shown miniature interiors of a 
steel mill. There you can acquaint 
yourself with some of the phases of 
steel making, the industry of Pitts
burgh.
If these explorations have only 
whetted your curiosity, proceed to 
the Fine Arts Building. The drama 
department is a maze of backstairs, 
catwalks, ladders, dressing rooms, 
and storage nooks. And when at last 
you have emerged from its dust and 
clutter and ungilt glamor, you will 
have felt something of the magnetic 
spell of the theater.
No, this is not the end for there 
are other places to explore.
ART CINEMA
809 Liberty Ave. Near Wood
NOW SHOWING 
$1,000,000 Reward To American 
Gangsters For
HitlerDead or Alive
with
Ward Bond, Dorothy Tree 
and Warren Hymer 
also
Ronald Colman 
in
I Was Faithful
(CYNARA)
Alles van die beste... Have a Coke
( ALL THE BEST )
.. giving the good word in South Africa
Have a Coke is a simple gesture of good will that lets people know 
you wish them well. In Capetown, as in Columbus or Concord, 
Coca-Cola turns refreshment time into friendship time,has be
come a symbol of good feeling among friendly-minded folks.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY, PITTSBURGH, PA.
"Coke" Coca-Cola 
j You naturally hear Coca-Col* i called by ita friendly abbreviation 
ICoke* Both mean the quality prod1 uct of The Coca-Cola Company.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MARCH 6, 1945THE CARNEGIE TARTAN5
One of the Girls
Clem McKenna, a senior in the 
Home Economics Department, 
whom you can recognize by her 
beautiful wavy blond hair, her 
sporty clothes, and that certain ath
letic look, will impress you immedi
ately as someone who has many in
terests and is good at everything 
she does. And after being with her 
a short time, you know how capable 
and efficient and fun-to-be-with she 
isa girl who is a real person and 
a true friend.
Clem participates in many cam
pus activities; in each one she has 
been elected to a position of lead
ership. (That fact tells more about 
her popularity and her ability to get 
things done than could be expressed 
in a hundred paragraphs!) Her so
rority, Kappa Kappa Gamma select
ed her to represent them on Panhellenic Council; she is president of 
CWCA and has been a member of 
CWCAs cabinet for three years; 
she has been on the WAA board all 
four years of her Tech career and 
was vice-president last year; she is 
in Womens Guild as WAA repre
sentative; she has earned her num
eralssymbols of her active partici
pation in womens athletics; she is 
secretary of the Home Economics 
Club.
These activities arent enough for 
Clem, though. Each Saturday after
noon, and sometimes on Sundays, 
she trades the life of a busy Tech 
student for the life of a Nurses
. . . Clem McKenna
Aide. She enjoys her work at St. 
Francis Hospital very much, es
pecially on the days when she is as
signed to the Childrens ward.
In the fall, unless she decides 
to join the Waves, she plans to teach 
Home Economics in a high school. 
But after three years of teaching 
(she wants that to be the maxi
mum). Clem would like to put to 
practical use all she has learned in 
her home economics courses, in the 
Home Management House, and in 
the Nursery School.
There is no doubt in Clems mind 
as to her favorite form of receration 
its camping. Her list of favorites 
includes as the movies actor, Walter 
Pidgeon, (as in Mrs. Parkington, for 
example) . She likes to eatany
thing but spaghetti. Her really fav
orite foodpeppermint stick ice 
cream, the way a Tech Home Ec 
makes it. Her favorite sports  all 
sports with the accent on tennis, 
badminton, and riding (plus skiing 
and skating in the winter).
. T. LIPPERT 
SAW COMPANY
MILL VALE, PENNSYLVANIA
 BUY WAR BONDS 

---------------------------------------------------

6THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 6, 1945
West Virginia Takes 
Last Home Game From 
Carnegie Tech, 66-35
West Virginias top-flight basket
ball team closed their season suc
cessfully by romping over Tech
66-35.
The game was fairly even for the 
first quarter and ended with West 
Virginia leading 14-10. Within a 
minute and a half thereafter Tech 
had come up to 13-14 on a basket 
and a foul but never caught the 
Flying mountaineers. As the second 
period progressed Techs defense 
fell apart. The speedy West Vir
ginians swished a merry tune on the 
chords. This race-horse type of play 
left them with a round 30-20 lead in 
the half-time intermission.
A1 Minetti led the handful of loyal 
Techites with an Institute, but the 
slaughter continued. Using Jimmie 
Walthall to progress the ball down 
the center of the court, West Vir
ginia sank a dazzling variety of onehand shots and extended the already 
uncomfortable margin. Tech kept 
Scherb and Klein shooting futilely 
from the outside, and Katselas 
shooting possible cut-across shots.
The final tally was that Walthalls
18 and Wilsons 15 points would 
pretty well have stopped Tech 
alone. For our side Tasso Katselas 
has 14 points to be a top man on a 
low, low pool. Tech has one more 
game this season, when they visit 
Slippery Rock this Friday. This 
game offers a change but not an en
couraging one.
Our Humble Opinion
continued, from page 2 
May Beringer as an intensely nerv
ous, excitable, fluttery old lady in 
such a way that the entire audience 
contracted a good case of nervous 
twitters. She was vividly realistic in 
portraying the ghastly horrified ex
pressions of unbalanced fear. Also 
convincing were her heart attacks 
and as a cadaver she was magnifi
cent.
The third and last part was play
ed by Doris Fast who portrayed the 
morbid, blunt, homely, hard, dom
ineering, mystic Agatha Payne. In 
this part overacting was almost nec
essary and if occassionally Doris 
Fast exaggerated it was quite ac
ceptable, even desirable. As a dark
eyed., superstitious gypsy in whose 
presence even the audience felt un
easy, Doris held her own. She did 
not slip into a Boris Karloff 
grotesqueness of the horror movie 
which would have been easy, but, 
instead, she made Agatha an 
authentic character with her own 
individual, though psychiatric, per
sonality.
In each of these parts the char
acters were individuals. The psy
chological effect produced was ex
cellent and by the time the last cur
tain fell, the members of the audi
ence were all total wrecks with our 
fingernails chewed down to the el
bow.
A. C. Minutes ...
Sixty-seventh Meeting 
February 28, 1945 
MINUTES OF ACTIVITIES COUNCIL
The meeting was called to order at 
5:15 p. m.
Present: Messrs. Daniels, Herrmann, 
Lerman, and Wangeman; Misses Bauer, 
Brooks, Garland, Swaney and Werner.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Elections Committee
Professor Owen explained the rules for 
counting ballots and determining the 
results of an election using the prefer
ential ballot system. He also demonstrat
ed the operations in order that the Coun
cil members would be familiar with them 
for coming elections.
Social Events Committee 
Margaret Morrison Senate
Miss Werner moved that the Activities 
Council grant the M.M. Senate permis
sion to hold their All School Party on 
Wednesday, March 14, 1945, at 7:30 p. m. 
in Recreation Hall.
Motion carried.
M.M. Sophomore Class
Miss Werner moved that the Activities 
Council grant the M.M. Sophomore Class 
permission to hold a bridge party on 
Friday, March 2, 1945, in the Canteen 
from 8:00 to 11:00 p. m.
Motion carried.
Panhellenic Council
Miss Werner moved that the Activities 
Council grant Panhellenic Council per
mission to hold an Open House for all 
freshman women on Wednesday, Febru
ary 28, 1945, in the Union from 4:00 to 
6:00 p. m.
Motion carried.
Miss Werner moved that the Activities 
Council grant Panhellenic Council per
mission to hold Greek Sing in the Little 
Theatre on Monday evening, April 9, 
1945.
Motion carried.
NEW BUSINESS Tec Vets
The Tec Vets petitioned the Activities 
Council for permission to hold an all
school dance on Saturday, March 24, 
1945, in Thistle Hall from 8:30 to 12:00 
p. m.
There was some discussion about the 
possibility of holding Spring Carnival 
that weekend. Mr. Lerman moved that 
the Council hold a special meeting on 
Thursday, March 1, 1945, for further dis
cussion.
Motion carried.
Adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
Shirley Swaney, Secretary.
 . . Outlines .  .
A modern music program by 
Misses Mathilde McKinney and Eva 
Stark has been planned by the Out
lines Galleries for next Sunday 
evening. Both Miss McKinney and 
Miss Stark are members of the 
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra, 
playing piano and violin respective
ly. The program, including repre
sentative music from Milhaud, De
lius, Bartk, and Brahms, will begin 
at 8:30 p. m.
For the following Sunday, March 
18, the movie, Storm Ov.er Asia has 
been scheduled. Directed by the 
great Russian artist, Pudovkin, and 
still ranking among most advanced 
of film expressions, the picture deals 
with the exploitation of a poor Rus
sian peasant who is discovered to be 
a descendant of Genghis Khan. The 
storm concerns the struggle within 
the man of whether to become a 
leader or not. There will be two 
showings of this movie, one at 7:30 
and the other at 9:30.
Outlines is located on the second 
floor of the Pittsburgh Playhouse at 
222 Craft Avenue.
R. E. LOUGHNEY, INC.
PLYMOUTH - DE SOTO
\   
SALES AND SERVICE
39 YEARS OF HONEST MERCHANDISING
Wholesale and Retail
Chrysler Engineered
PLYMOUTH AND DE SOTO PARTS AND ACCESSORIES 
5556 Center at Negley MOntrose 4725

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MARCH 6, 1945THE CARNEGIE TARTAN7
One of the Profs
The tall, pleasant, scholarly-looking man was describing most vivid
ly the Roman way of life during the 
days of early Christianity to a group 
of young men and women who were 
obviously fascinated. The scholarly 
man was Dr. Gregg, head of the His
tory Department, and the young 
men and women were Tech students 
in a History of Civilization class.
Dr. Gregg, who has an AB from 
Oberlin College, an AM from the 
University of Michigan, and a PhD 
from Hopkins, has been associated 
with the History Dept, at Tech for 
14 years, 10 of which have been 
spent in the capacity of Depart
mental head. As such he has accom
plished much to improve the social 
and humanistic courses and to give 
the students a valuable understand
ing of the past and present and their 
relation to each other as well as 
their relation to the future. In teach
ing social orientation to the engi
neering student, Dr. Gregg has tried 
to emphasize the relation of their 
particular field to society and the 
social consequences of the machines 
which they are designing.
However, Dr. Greggs activities 
reach far from the classroom for he 
is Co-director of Pittsburghs Re
gional Inter-American Center which 
functions for better understanding 
between North America and Latin 
America. To better acquaint this re
gion with our southern neighbors, 
this organization shows movies, 
holds discussions, distributes liter
ature, and holds annual institutes
T E P
(This is a paid advertisement)
.
. . . Dr, Gregg
for study of the subject. Dr. Gregg, 
a member of the Pitt branch of Phi 
Alpha Theta, honorary history fra
ternity, is also chairman of the For
eign Policy Association of Pittsburgg which studies international 
relations and problems of world 
unity. These are only a few of the 
civic activities with which Dr. 
Gregg is associated, for he is a man 
of many interests and capacities.
In' his summers Dr. Gregg has 
been wont to pursue his favorite 
hobby, travel, a hobby which is far 
from irrelevant to his social and his
torical interests; for in his wander
ings he has visited many famous 
landmarks of the past and has ob
served the similarities and differ
ences of geographically separated 
societes. Among the faraway places 
to which he has traveled are west
ern Europe, England, Egypt, the 
Mediterranean, Italy, Spain, Pales
tine, and the Caribbean. One sum
mer he spent studying at the Na
tional University of Mexico. He re
members most vividly some of the 
Indian communities in Mexico 
where life was still quite primitive, 
where idols were still worshipped 
and fettishes still buried to secure%good farming weather. It was al
most fairy-storyish, the life they 
lived. Another of his more interest
ing trips was one which took him 
down the Nile from Alexandria to 
Cairo. What interested him most in 
this trip were the temporary mud 
huts built by the peasants while the 
Nile was low and forsaken when the 
annual floods came. However, for 
the present Dr. Gregg has been 
forced to curtail his travel but as 
soon as the war is over he will be 
off again to distant lands.
Although Dr. Gregg is a brilliant
Maggie Murph Sophs 
Sponsor Bridge Party 
At Canteen On March 2
On Friday, March 2, the sopho
more class of Margaret Morrison 
gave an evening bridge party in the 
Canteen from 8:00 to 11:00.
Its rumored that a few games of 
Hearts and I Doubt It were al
so smuggled in. Lucky Elly Alexan
der won the door prize which was a 
tube of Pink Lightning Lipstick, 
and a bottle of Revlon nail polish. 
Coca Cola and cookies served as re
freshments for the evening.
Dean Yon, Dr. Miller, Miss Doug
las, and Mrs. Barr joined in a few 
games of Hearts.
Blood Drive
continued from page 1 
Irene Waichler in charge of pub
licity.
During the last drive Tech went 
over the top on her quota of 150 
pints, but this was less than 20% 
of the student body. The second 
drive was purposely delayed long 
enough that the original donors 
might be able to contribute again, 
but better cooperation from the re
maining 80% of the student body is 
hoped for.
man, a scholar of many interests, he 
is not a superiorly stand-offish, 
school-teacher type, but rather an 
informal, interesting, easy-going, 
humorous, affable, congenial per
sonality who reads detective stories, 
enjoys suspense movies, and listens 
to Bob Hope and Fibber McGee. 
Like all of us he has pronounced 
aversions to eight oclock classes and 
incessant telephone interruptions, 
and this winters weather he could 
denounce prolongedly. It is for these 
qualities of humanness and humor 
that his students so admire him. 
Under him, history is so colorful 
that class cutting has reached a new 
low.
For Auld Lang Syne
To the Editor:
Im an ex-student of C. I. T. I was 
stationed there this past summer in 
the 3302nd Service Unit, ASTRP.
I represent a group of the boys 
who constituted this unit. As you 
probably know, it was dissolved, 
and its members were sent down to 
Virginia Polytechnic Institute. 
Weve been here since last October 
and miss Carnegie more and more.
We would deeply appreciate a 
favor that you can grant us. Would 
you be able to send us the words to 
some of the school songs, especially 
Alma Mater? We know the tunes 
to some of these songs and put them 
to good use by whistling them when 
we are in section formations. But 
if we had the words it would be all 
the better.
If it isnt too much trouble, I 
would also like you to se me one or 
two copies of the Tartan.
Ill see to it that the songs and 
papers are circulated among all the 
Carnegie men.
I thank you sincerely in the name 
of all C. I. T. men at this post.
Pvt. M. Stein.
Elections . . .
continued from page 1 
ments. If anyone especially desires 
to have his picture printed and has 
no good one available, Tartan may 
make arrangements for a picture ta 
a staff photographer.
The Tartan is reserving this space 
for you. It is your privilege and your 
obligation to take advantage of it.
Play Contest...
Continued from page 1 
among the works given honorable 
mention are recommended to pro
ducing and publishing units of es
tablished worth. The contests are 
open to all persons who write in 
English.
Other privileges extended to con
tributors include opportunity to ob
tain brief critiques of their work for 
a nominal fee of three dollars be
yond the registration fee; introduc
tion of promising dramatists to 
members of the Alliance already 
placed in the theater and movies for 
advice and assistance; and the ap
pearance of every item contributed 
in the contests in the lists of the 
Bulletin issued each year and sent 
to libraries, producing groups, and 
individuals throughout the country.
Recent contributors whose work 
has been recognized by the press 
and public since their entry in the 
competition include Howard Rich
ardson, whose Dark of the Moon 
was bought by Lee Shubert for pro
duction on Broadway this winter 
and received pictorial review in 
Life Magazine for September 11; 
Sgt. Edwin Gross, whose radio play, 
T M D was broadcast nationally over 
Blue Network in September; Owen 
Dodson, whose Garden of Time will 
be presented by the American 
Negro Theater this year in New 
York; Will Gibson, whose religious 
play, I Lay In Zion, has been issued 
by Samuel French Company.
Writers interested should send for 
registration forms and information 
as early as possible; final date of this 
seasons competitions is March 25,
1945. Address all communications to 
DRAMATISTS ALLIANCE, Box 
200 Z, Stanford University, Califor
nia.
021414020284141414148484841458585355551414841414840214141414141402451414021414841414141402020214028414020202021402

---------------------------------------------------

8THE, CARNEGIE TRTANTUESDAY, MARCH 6, 1945The Plaid
eMjo*talitieA . . .
Wherever you find music, there 
you will find Virginia Ehni, for 
Jinie, as she is more commonly call
ed, is a true lover of music, whether 
it be vocalizing with her friends, 
listening to her favorite albums of 
recordings, or merely discussing the 
subject of music.
It would seem plausible, then, 
that Jinie is a student of the Col
lege of Fine Arts; however, it was 
a course in Psychology that lured 
her to Carnegie Tech. Since last fall, 
she has made herself a most wel
come member of the group of students who have made Evening 
School more than a casual interest 
in their lives. Aside from being an 
excellent student, she has done 
much toward the promotion of the 
student organization; and in the 
short time she has been at Tech, 
she has become a Representative to 
Council, Assistant Social Chairman, 
and a member of the Plaid Staff.
This charming young lady is eas
ily identified by her lovely blond 
hair, which has caught the eye of 
many a passer-by in keen admira
tion. Her good sense of humor and 
lovely wit are two of the factors 
that make up her likeable person
ality; the others are all the qualities 
which are conducive to friendliness 
and companionship, not to mention 
the habit she has cultivated which 
so many of us lack, that of finishing 
the things she once starts.
Her pet peeve since coming to 
Tech is that in being introduced to 
scores of people about the campus,- 
she has heard a new pronunciation 
of her name on the occasion of each 
introduction.
Being an athletic type, she enjoys 
almost any sport, but particularly 
swimming, volley ball, tennis and 
badminton.
Also, she is fond of dancing, good
The Plaid
Editor 
Joseph M. Rymar
News Editor 
Mary de Maria 
Associate Editors 
Ruth McGraw 
Arlene McMurray
Page edited by Evening School Stndents of Car
negie Institute of Technology. All views of 
opinions expressed in editorial colnmn are not 
necessarily endorsed by the Editorial Board of 
the Day School 8taff.
Staff
Betty Ashcraft E. E. McDonald
Olive Baumgardner Frank Mihelich
Virginia Ehni Dorothy Papa
S. W. Marcinizyn Leah Van Horn
Frad Vichich
It is a cold dreary night and it is 
raining pitch-forks. Just the kind 
of a night made for gossipingso 
draw up a chair, chilun. . . . Lt. 
William Hurtt is stationed at a B-29 
base in New Mexico. . . . Lt. Arnold 
Anex, who returned last year from 
the Mediterranean war theatre, is 
now in Salt Lake City, Utah. . . . 
Welcome home, Lt. James Miller. 
Jim has been with task forces on 
Guam and Saipan. . . . Alfred Cox, 
president ol the Pittsburgh Com
mercial Heat Treating Company, 
has donated $4,000 to the Endow
ment Fund with the stipulation that 
four scholarship funds be given 
$1,000 each. Thanks, Mr. Cox. . . . 
Mr. McGilvarys classes have musi
cal accompaniment to their lessons 
furnished by the Eurythmics class 
in the next room. . . . Could the 
fact that the girls in the Art class 
on the top floor of Arts have keys 
to elevators be the reason they have 
sue ha large following of males. We 
agree that it is better to ride than 
walk. . . . We wonder where Eddie 
Clark gets those snappy suits. Could 
be that he shops in New Kensing
ton. . . . Seen at the Valentine Par
ty  Ches and Martha Biscup going 
down in defeat to Steve and Mary 
Marcinizyn in the bridge game. . . f 
Major and Mrs. Stanton tripping the 
light fantastic to the strains of 
Meet Me in St. Louis, Louis. The 
Major said the song brought back 
memories of his courtin days. . . . 
Plenty of blue uniforms . . . Doro
thy Papa eating sandwiches in the 
kitchen. . . . The fellows being tag
ged by the girls during the broken 
heart dance. . . . Well expect to 
see all of you at the swimming party 
on March 17. . . . Well, the rain has 
stopped, and its time to go home. 
So long.___________________________
books, and food of all kinds. And, 
not to exclude her preference in 
men, her ideal is tall and dark and 
must have many of the interests she 
herself possesses. Do you fit the de
scription?
9*i Me**uyUo+n
The Plaid is grieved to report the 
death of Lt. William J. Spangler on 
February 23, 1945. The sudden death 
was the result of an air crash in 
Georgia while Lt. Spangler and the 
crew of a B-25 were on a practice 
flight.
Lt. Spangler, Pinky as he was 
affeptionately known by all his 
classmates and associates, was a stu
dent in Chemical Engineering and 
had nearly completed his work for 
a degree when he enlisted in the 
Air Corps in January of 1942. Upon 
the close of the war he expected to 
return to Carnegie to complete his 
course.
He was employed in the Research
Laboratories of the Gulf Refining 
Company at Harmarville and ob
tained a military leave of absence 
to serve in the Air Corps.
While attending classes at Car
negie Tech, he participated in the 
extra-curricular activities of the 
Evening Student Council, taking an 
active part in these functions. He 
was honored by a call to the ranks 
on Nu Sigma Alpha and Sigma Del
ta Phi fraternities.
Pinky will be greatly missed by 
all who had the drivilege of know
ing him. He was a real friend and 
pal. .
Our deepest sympathy is extend
ed to his widow, Mrs. Edna West
land Spangler, and his mother, Mrs. 
Lillian Spangler and his sister, Mrs. 
Viola Weis.
Red Cross Blood Drive
Carnegie Tech is again participat
ing in the Red Cross blood drive. 
Everyone seems to be donating their 
blood for our fighting men these
days, so lets all back the campaign 
and make it a big success.
Our quota for the last drive was 
150, but with a little extra effort, we 
can go way over the top this time.
The days for Carnegie Techs con
tributions to the Blood Bank are 
March 8, 9, and 10, 1945.
The Alumni and Evening School 
Students are asked to cooperate in 
order to help put over the drive. 
You can sign up by merely sending 
your name and the time you desire 
to donate to the Mortar Board via 
Inter School mail.
Lets Get in the Swim
You will find that swimming is 
just as much fun on St. Patricks 
Day as it is on the Fourth of July, 
so take advantage of the annual 
Tech swimming party to perfect 
your swimming for the summer sea
son. In case you are anxious to make 
an impression on that certain party, 
we suggest that you try the pool in 
advance and see if you can improve 
on the old diving board. Dont forget 
the date, March 17, at 7:30 P. M.
\ 
Fighting moisture and fungus
communication's jungle enemies
Ever-present dangers to military communications are 
the twin enemies of the junglemoisture and fungus. 
By impairing the efficient working of telephones and 
radios, they can halt vital messages as effectively as 
putting the wires.
The long experience of Bell Laboratories engineers 
in designing telephone equipment for use under all 
climatic conditions has helped the Signal Corps in 
counter-attacking these enemies of the jungle.
Lessons learned in this wartime emergency "will aid 
in building better communications equipment for 
war and peace.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
"Service to the Nation in Peace and War i
