Carnival HugeSuccess
YOL. 42No. 24CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.WEDNESDAY, MAY 18, 1949
Paul Robins 
To Address 
CIT Engineers
Executive Director 
Will Discuss Future In 
Engineering Profession
An informative talk having an 
important bearing on the future 
professional work of all engineer
ing students and stressing the de
sirability of being a registered en
gineer will be given today by Paul 
H. Robbins, executive director of 
the National Society of Profes
sional Engineers, EH 209 at 4:30.
Besides the talk, entitled Pro
fessional Progress Through Reg
istration, Louis Laushey, assist
ant professor of civil engineering,
Paul H. Robbins
will give the specific requirements 
for registration in Pennsylvania.
Purpose of Registration 
According to the national so
ciety the purpose of registration 
is to place the agencies of the law 
behind the effort of the profession 
to maintain high standards of 
qualification and ethical practice.
Mr. Robbins holds degrees from 
Syracuse University and M.I.T. 
and has engaged in graduate work 
at Columbia University for his 
Ph.D. degree.
Varied Experience 
He has had field experience in 
highway design and layout, and 
was associated with the Pittsburgh 
Bridge and Iron Works. In 1937 
he left there to join the engineer
ing staff of Cooper Union. He has 
also taught at NYU and the Uni
versity of Maine.
During the war Mr. Robbins 
was the representative of the 
Chief of Transportation of the 
Army to all ports of embarkation 
in this country. He consulted with 
the commanders of the ports on 
all phases of management, or
ganization, and the utilization of 
Personnel.
Senior Ball 
To Highlight 
Commencement
Mortar Board, succeeding the 
administration as sponsor of the 
Senior Ball, this years dance will 
be a highlight of the commence
ment program, announced Myra 
Jane Barry, chairman of the com
mittee, last week.
The Ball will be held from 9 
to 1 on Tuesday, June 14, at the 
Hotel Schenley. Buddy Murphys 
Orchestra and Johnny Kirby, lo
cal radio singing star, will pro
vide the music for this closed af
fair, which will be semi-formal.
Because of the change in spon
sorship and the switch to the 
Schenley, tickets will be sold at 
$1.30 per couple. Only 400 tickets 
are to be sold, and these can be 
purchased from members of Mor
tar Board and ODK after May 25.
Other changes from previous 
years include a strict ban on cor
sages and elimination of the 
Deans receiving line.
Campus Leaders Ca lied 
By Activities Honoraries
Omieron Delta Kappa, Mortar Board, Delta Skull, Cwens, 
Scimitars Increase Rolls With Seventy-four Names
Election Notice
Student Council election date 
has been changed from May 24 
to May 27. Petitions will be due 
at 11:15 a.m. on May 20 and 
must contain 40. signatures as 
previously stated. A list of can
didates and polling places will 
appear in the next issue of the 
Tartan. As in the past, the elec
tion will be held from 11:15 to 
1:45.
James Reynolds 
Elections Chairman
Fracas Of Political Campaigns 
To Be Unleashed This Week
Dormicon, Fraternities Complete Plans
For Council Election (Ho-humherewegoagain)
Although pushed far into the background of campus activity by 
Carnival last week, politics was not forgotten. Both Dormicom and 
the fraternities hoped to unleash their campaigns during this week 
and the campus may expect the usual deluge of posters, and other
----------------------------------------------------?publicity that goes into an all-out
political fight.
John Fondrk, president of Dor
micom, says that the party feels 
it has a very strong list of candi
dates. Dormicom finished inter
viewing prospective candidates last 
week but has not yet announced 
its slate for the election which 
is only a week away.
No official platform has come 
out of the independent party but 
Fondrk promises that the Hare 
system will still be one of Dormicoms rallying points. In general, 
the platform will deal with the 
major campus problems which in
clude getting the independents 
out of their shells and interested 
in the campus.
Citcom will back Dormicom in 
the election, Robert Fulton, pres
ident of Citcom, announced.
Tom Sedgwick has replaced Ted 
Goodson as Dormicoms elections 
chairman.
Last Production 
Of Drama School 
Starts Saturday>
Antiogne and The Showingup of Blanco Posmet, both one 
act productions, will open this 
Saturday night at the Carnegie 
Theatre. The twin bill, under the 
direction of visiting dramatist Dr. 
A. Nicholas Vardac, will be the 
final offering of the theater this 
year.
Mechanical difficulties will be at 
a minimum since both plays are 
single set shows. The sets, design
ed by Lloyd Weninger, will be 
simple, yet impressive. The 
Showing-up of Blanco Posmet 
has only a basic interior scene, 
while Antiogne, a study in 
grays, will be done on grey steps 
with columns and velours of the 
same color as a background.
Audiences will have an oppor
tunity to compare the interpreta
tion and presentation which a 
skilled director uses in developing 
these different types of dramatic 
production.
One More
Next weeks Tartan will be 
the last of the school year. All 
copy to appear in that issue 
must be submitted by midnight 
Friday. Tentative plans set Sep
tember 15 as the first date of 
issue next fall.
Seventy-four students were called by five campus honoraries 
at the call day ceremony yesterday. Calls were made by Omieron 
Delta Kappa, senior mens honorary, Mortar Board, senior womens 
honorary, Delta Skuff, junior mens honorary, Scimitar, sophomore 
-----------------------------------------------------?mens honorary, and Cwens, soph
omore womens honorary.
Following is the list of students 
called to the organizations:Technical Has 
New Editors
Staff Names McKelvey 
As Editor-In-Chief
Robert W. McKeivey was elect
ed editor of the Carnegie Techni
cal at an editorial board meeting 
May 7. McKelvey, a junior chem
ist who has advanced from the 
position of flexible copy editor, is 
also vice-president of the YMCA 
and a member of the Carnegie 
Tech debating society.
Charles J. Koester, former ad
vertising manager, succeeds Da
vid Sapper as business manager. 
Koester, a member of Kiltie Band, 
Mens Glee Club, and Delta Upsilon, will be a senior physicist. 
The other two members of the ex
ecutive board are Herbert Stone, 
managing editor, and Arthur 
Dickson, features editor.
Besides conducting the staff 
election, the editorial board cre
ated the new post of contest ed
itor to organize the Technical ar
ticle contest next year. It is hop
ed that widespread interest in the 
contest can be aroused next year.
Other positions on the editorial 
board are as follows: publicity 
manager, David Steiner; advertis
ing manager, Lewis Sternberg; 
circulation manager, Richard Hall; 
art editor, Virginia Gorman; flex
ible copy editor, James Patterson; 
and fixed copy editor, William 
Bennett.
Dr. Doherty To 
Deliver Address 
At U. Of Illinois
Dr. Robert E. Doherty, CIT 
president, will deliver an address 
at the University of Illinois on 
Friday, May 20. The address will 
be part of the dedication cere
mony for the Universitys electri
cal engineering building in Urbana, Illinois.
Omieron Delta Kappa
Richard DiPrima, A. Starke 
Drischell, Theodore Goodson, 
Wesley Kenney, Albert Kiefer, 
Albert Kimmel, Charles Koester, 
William Pounds, George Pugh, 
Richard Shaffer, Robert Sinclair.
Mortar Board
Mary Lou Bacon, Nancy Cain, 
Betty Lou Crozier, Shirley Fitzmaurice, Judy Garb, Virginia 
Gorman, Hilde Jacob, Jane Law
ton, Lorraine Prus, Frances Rea, 
Justine Richard, Patricia Roney, 
Elaine Sobol.
Delta Skull
Donald Culler, Earl Latterman, 
John Montstream, William Brent, 
Robert Broida, Eugene Sapper, 
Robert Dougherty, LeRoy Berg
strom, Robert Kubiak, Joseph 
Weinreich, Paul Offermann, Ar
thur Zuch, Robert Carpenter, 
Lawrence Stovicek, Richard Mit
chell.
Scimitar
Donald Abrams, Wesley Apple, 
Morton Baker, Thomas Birch, Ger
ald Conlon, Edmund Denburg, 
Lloyd Dyer, Kenneth Goldman, 
Quentin Holtz, Richard Johnson, 
John Luchol^, Raymond Mangold, 
Albert Moon, Thomas Nathan, 
Robert Pratt.
Cwens
Jeanne Button, Beverly Capella, 
Mary Carazola, Geraldine Eisenhuth, Nancy Godden, Barbara 
Hess. Lorraine Johnson, Elaine 
Lobl, Nancy Metcalf, Dolores Mit
chell, Joan Ochs, Ruth Osborne, 
Shirlee Ploeger, Suzanne Richard, 
Jane Robb, Joan Robinson, Kath
ryn Snure, D. Jeanne Stauder. 
Auleen Thomas, Mary Anne 
Wilson.
Platforms
All candidates for Student 
Council are invited to submit 
platforms not exceeding 75 
words to be published in the 
May 25 issue of the Tartan. The 
platforms may be submitted by 
interschool mail or placed in the 
Tartan mailbox at the Carnegie 
Union. They must be received 
by midnight Friday.
Under Sunny Skies
As all good things have an end, so Spring Carnival 1949 passes, 
only to be remembered as one of the most successful carnivals ever 
held on Techs Campus.
Officially the eventful weekend began Thursday afternoon when 
the midway opened for the first time, but for Miss Gloria Bergman 
the real start came ealy the following afternoon when she was 
crowned Spring Carnival Queen in the long awaited coronation.
The ceremony took place in the sun-filled Sylvan Theatre 
where cavorting clowns, a mystic with a crystal ball, and a mis
chievous spotted dog name Cy entertained and teased hundreds 
of carnival goers before naming the girl who would reign over 
Carnival.
Shortly after the coronation everyone gathered to watch the 
float parade pass. The Sigma Nu circus complete with band, caged 
animals and elephants took first price. Delta Upsilons big-headed, 
eye-rolling lion received second place, while Delta Tau Delta won 
honorable mention with a carousel.
[Continued on page 31
Pictured on the Pan-Hellenic float as they lead the float parade 
is the Spring Carnival Queen and her court of six. They are, from 
left to right, Marilyn Allshouse, Corrinne DeChicchis, Dorothy Kane, 
Vera Latchic, Betty Lou Kaufmann, Gloria Bergman, (Queen), and 
Anne Augustine.

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, MAY 18, 1949
Editorials
Amongst The Rubble
Even with all the confusion due to parliamen
tary red tape and a certain amount of animosity 
between some councilmen of opposing parties, 
Student Council did a great deal toward solving 
some of major campus problems this semester.
Deserving commendation is the work on the 
Campus Chest organization of classes, reorgani
zation of the publications committee and of a 
new variety magazine, and a further attempt to 
keep all activities on a firm financial founda
tion.
However, Council has failed to come to 
an agreement on a voting system and conse
quently no new set of bylaws can be rati
fied. The i?sue has become a partisan one 
and both sides have their diehards.
We can not condemn anyone for supporting 
what they believe is right, but in several votes 
taken in Council recently several councilmen re
fused to vote. It is hardly likely that they had 
suddenly lost interest in the issue. Could it be 
that they were afraid to lose face by giving in?
Only A Couple More
You Did It
We have just experienced one of the most de
lightful week ends of the school year. Everyonelooked forward to Spring Carnival with a great 
deal of expectation and we are sure none were 
disappointed. We offer our thanks to ODK and 
the other organizations who helped make Carnival 
such a tremendous success.
All of the credit does not go to them, 
however. The biggest reason for the success 
of Carnival lies with the students. Your spirit 
and cooperation is what did it.
This same spirit and active participation can 
make any campus activity a success and any 
team victorious. ,
Incentive Needed
One of the problems faced by activity leaders 
on campus is that very few high factor freshmen 
are interested in becoming active in the various 
organizations. These men can afford to spend a 
few hours a week on an activity, but because 
they aren't pushed, or because they do not think 
activities benefit them, they fail to make any 
effort.
This problem has been successfully over
come on other campuses by the establish
ment of a chapter of Phi Eta Sigma, national 
freshmens scholastic honorary.
Freshmen, drawn by the honor of membership, 
join the organization and are introduced into 
extra-curricular organizations. The honorary also 
serves other useful functions on the campus, as
suming such duties as care of periodicals in the 
library, freshman tutoring, etc.
We believe the idea has merits and should be 
investigated by Student Council.
tar iicgieTartan
OFFICES Carnegie Union 5075 Forbes St. Pittsburgh Ha. TELEPHONE: SC 4557; after hours MU 7017, SC 8951. Published weekly during the scnooJ year, except noiida.ys and examination periods, by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology. Pittsburgh. Pa.
Editor-in-Chief ............................................. Albert F. KimmelBusiness Manager ................................................ Herbert StoneManaging Editor .................................................. Paul OffermanPersonnel Manager .................................... Robert J. Kubiak
New* EditorTom Birch. Sports EditorBill Dorn. Copy EditorLloyd Dyer Makeup EditorRalph Painter, Advertising ManagerMorty Baker. Circulation Manager Clarence Smith. Headline EditorCatherine Rudy. Proof EditorJohn Braun. Asst. Business ManagerArthur G. Zuch. Personnel AssistantRay Mangold. Chief Reporters Laura Ehni, Frances Hamborsky, Catherine Rudy, Nancy Sitler, Joseph Weinreich. Chief PhotographerRichard Deininger.Copy StaffHamilton Bartlett, John Gerum, Analee Gel- man. Mary Cauffield. Robert Cloud. Elizabeth Asche. Ed Muttart. Features StaffA. Starke Drischell, Gene Feist, Jack Johnson. PhotographerLeland Green, Howard MiskillReportersJo Crisanu, Angela Pollis, Judy Block Alan Blotcky, A1 Bader, Joan Blumenthal, William Lyell, Nancy Sitler. Cp ReportersSally Bachman, Hilda Chottiner, Jene Conner, Dorothy Karns, Edward koos, Patricia Kelley, Sus MacFadden, Dolores Mitchell, Shirlee Ploeger, Bee Potter Jane Robb. Anita Tabellinl, Joan Williams, Nancy Will, Susan Flood Sports StaffRichard Barr, Gerry Conlon, Robert Dougherty. Charles King Warren Lithgow, Fred Lunt. An Mensing. John Roslund. Bruce Updike. Business StaffEdmund Demburg, Shirlee Goldenfeld, Marjorie Weinsweig, Bud Smith, Bob Powers, Mitch Bakon, 
Herman P. Alexander.TypistsPatti McDermott, Wilma Dickson, Shirley Dixon.
Represented toi national advertising by NATIONAL ADVERTISING. Inc.. College Publishers Representative. 420 
Madison Ave. New York City Subscription SI.10 per year.Entered second class matter on Oct. 4, 1907 at the 
Post Office at Pittsburgh. Pa., under the Act of March 3. 1879 Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in the Act of February 28. 1925 Authorized Octo
ber 21. 1911.
berLeu ck bris fntfo
Final Curtain Closes 
On 'Molecule Man
by Gene Feist
Last week saw the seventh production of the 
annual Scotch !n Soda Club show. Molecule 
Man proved to be a colorful and striking pre
sentation.
The outstanding aspects of the show were the 
vital and talented young entertainers of the act
ing troup, headed by Gerald Stovin and Charles 
Kavenagh. Mr. Stovin has a fine comic control 
and wTould have proved to be even more of an 
asset to show if he had been allowed to sing 
and dance. Mr. Kavenagh seemed to enjoy his 
role and delighted the audience with his wry 
humor.
Cyclotron Song Effective
Pam Morrill as Hazel, the girl of all work, 
brought to the stage of the Carnegie Music Hall 
a professional assurance and poise sufficiently de
veloped to sustain the lead in a Broadway musi
cal. Rose Schulman of the Drama Department, in 
a bit part, again proved that she has an amaz
ing and versatile comedy technique which has 
been ignored in the casting of the leads of the 
Scotch n Soda shows. Miss Schulman can hold 
an audience with a gesture, glance, or laugh. 
Phil Flad, a magician in his spare time, sang the 
cyclotron song, Push-Pull-Click-Click, with 
polish and dispatch.
Accented toward youth, the show included the 
vivacity and charm of Gloria Bergman, J. 
Mathews Smith, Helen Leerberg, Steve Radkoff, 
Martha Lewin, Marvin Kolatch, Janet Cohen, 
H. Wesley Kenney, and many other Carnegie 
Tech students who have devoted the past months 
to rehearsing this production.
Watch Newcomers
Newcomers to watch in subsequent shows are 
Mary Sillers, Morton Schwartz, Marilyn Jen
nings, Jayne Carvel, Marjorie Paxson, Jim Reilly, 
Neil Fishman, and Peggy Ann Owens.
The sets of Joe Jennings allowed the vast 
music hall stage to be used with economy and 
speed. The set consisted of a large central pros
cenium with a smaller arch or> either side. Quick 
changes were made possible by the use of rolling 
platforms and jack knife stages. A colorful Mole
cule Man program, in the form of a comic book, 
was designed by Wayne McBeth, David Clark, 
Irrero Fiorentino, and Joe Jennings. The pages 
were decorated with caricatures of the cast, writ
ers, and director of the show.
Orchestra Eliminated
Instead of the large orchestra that proved an 
obstacle last year by playing louder than the 
entertainers could sing, the accompaniment this 
year was by Peggy McCaul and Gene Mulligan 
at two pianos.
The book of Molecule Man was by Bill Putch 
and Dick Riebling with music and lyrics by Gene 
Mulligan. Talbot pearson directed the show. Cos
tumes were by A1 Lehman and the choreography 
by Anne Pearson.
Drisco Wins 
T eehnieal Prize
Science Senior Given 
Fifty Dollar Award
Richard M. Drisco has been 
awarded the fifty dollar prize for 
the best article submitted to the 
Carnegie Technical during the 
current school year.
His article, Social Impacts of 
Relativity, which appeared in the 
April issue of the Technical is a 
discussion of the influence of the 
theory of relativity on various 
branches of the physical and so
cial sciences and on human think
ing as a whole. A senior in the 
physics department, Mr. Drisco 
has been a past contributor to 
the Technical, and has served as 
a Techspert for the last two years.
Judges for the contest consist
ed of the executive board of the 
Technical. All undergraduates 
articles submitted during the cur
rent year were eligible, with ar
ticles being judged on the basis 
of technical perfection, literary 
ability, and choice of subject. A 
similar contest will be sponsored 
by the Technical next year.
Next Years Student Directory 
To Be Out Early In The Fall
Next years Student Directory will be out within six weeks after 
day classes begin on September 21. Plans spearheaded by Alpha Phi 
Omega, with assistance from the Public Relations Office, and the 
Printing department, will make this improvement possible.
----------------------------------------------------? 'Key to the new plan is a card
which is to be filled out by the 
student during registration next 
fall. The card, will be especially 
designed to contain only informa
tion needed for the C-Book. This 
information will be arranged to 
permit the Printing department, 
which will print the book, to set 
type directly from the cards.
Cards Collected
During fall registration APO 
will pass the cards out to students 
as they enter the gym. Somewhere 
in the registration line the cards 
will be collected and checked for 
completeness and legibility. Cards 
with errors will be changed on the 
spot.
In cases where the student is 
not certain of his Pittsburgh ad
dress his card will be kept separ
ately and brought up to date later. 
Late registrations will be handled 
throughout the cooperation of the 
Registrars office.
APOS Plan 
The new plan had its inception 
late last October when Alpha Phi 
Omega helped put the finishing 
touches on this years book. About 
two months ago APO took its ver
sion of how to get a C-Book out 
quickly to Stanley March, head 
of Public Relations. Except for 
minor changes the plan was ac
cepted and acted upon.
Use of cards will eliminate some 
of the time-consuming labor in
volved with the publication, but 
not all, and thats where Alpha 
Phi Omega hopes to step in and 
provide the manpower needed for 
the proofreading, checking, etc.
Organizations Included
All organizations active on cam
pus this year will be included in 
the 49-50 C-Book together with 
the address and phone number of 
the president.
Alpha Phi Omega will not pub
lish its Student Activities direc
tory next year. The service fra
ternity feels that by including the 
list of organizations in the C-Book 
the need for an activities directory 
is greatly reduced.
Scotch *ii Spda 
Has Its Own 
Hall Of Fame
One look at the past records and 
it is plain to see that Scotch and 
Soda has been produced by people 
of high professional calibre. 
Alumni of the club have accumu
lated into an impressive list of suc
cessful people in all phases of the 
entertainment world.
Of the six men who held the 
eventful bull session back in 1938 
which led to the first Scotch and 
Soda show, five are now promi
nently active in their fields, and 
one has returned to CIT this year, 
working toward his masters de
gree in drama.
He is Sam Boyd who recently 
staged The Playboy of the West
ern World here. The others in
clude Bob Finkel, RKO director in 
Hollywood; John Vlahos, a writer 
in Hollywood; Buzzy Blair, a radio 
director in New York; and Cort 
Stein, a television actor in New 
York.
Then there are Bill Eythe, A1 
Checco, and Jennie Lou Law, all 
in the cast of the New York hit, 
Lend An Ear.
Mitch Agruss who played in the 
1941 production and who was so 
remarkable in Kink Lear two 
years age is now playing in At 
War With the Army at the Booth 
theatre.
Jerry Schnurr is in Hollywood 
in the capacity of an assistant pro
ducer. Belle Starre one of the 
films he collaborated on.
And those who have read about 
the self-styled citizen of the 
world, Garry Davis, the man who 
touched off the furor when he took 
refuge on the steps of the United 
Nations in Paris a year ago, will be 
interested to know that he, too, is 
a CIT and Scotch and Sodi. alum
nus.
Sam Biff Liff came through 
school again a year ago when he 
was stage managing the tour of 
Call Me Mister.
That second Bob Hope, Dave 
Crantz is now, as might be ex
pected, writing gags for various 
radio personalities in New York.
Scholarships
All scholarship applicants are 
required to have a personal inter
view with a member of the Finan
cial Aid Committee before June 10.
Each applicant should report to 
the Dean of Men, or Dean of 
Women, for an appointment as 
soon as possible. .

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, MAY 18, 1949 THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
Spring Carnival A Success
[Continued from page 1]
Representatives of the organizations winning the various events: 
Front row, left to right, Jack Mees, Tom Ferguson, Sigma Alpha 
Epsilon (1st pushmobile design); Gloria Bergman, Queen; Bob Kubiak, Delta Upsilon (2nd float); George Wilson, Delta Tau Delta, 
(3rd float). Second row, George Bach, Richard Stanley, and Wil
liam Michols, Delta Tau Delta (1st sweepstakes); Margaret Hudak, 
Chi Omega (2nd skit); John Hull, Sigma Nu (1st float); Jack Col
lins, Phi Kappa (outstanding IM athlete); Mike Theodore, Sigma Nu 
(outstanding varisty athlete); Bob Carr, Emanon (all points tro
phy); Virginia Gorman, Kappa Alpha Theta (1st skit).
Friday night it was the Starlite 
Hop with Benny he got me pal 
Bennack and his band. Once 
again the weatherman was caught 
napping and happy couples spent 
the evening dancing or strolling 
along the noisy, gawdy midway.
Early the next morning, at 11:30, 
the pushmobile finals were run off 
with the Delta Tau Delts entry 
edging out the Pi Kappa Alphas 
entry to win first place and set a 
new course record of 2:42.5. It 
was a thrilling race that saw only 
a one second difference between 
first and second place. Kappa 
Sigma came in third.
Sigma Alpha Epsilons sleek 
aluminum pushmobile captured 
first place in design competition, 
with honorable mention going to 
Pi Kappa Alpha.
In the Carnegie Theatre that 
afternoon Kappa Alpha Thetas 
satirical version of Molecule Man, 
entitled Colecule Man, won first 
place trophy in the womens skit 
competition. Second place went 
to Chi Omega for, Amy White 
and the Seven Sororities. Alpha
Author To Discuss 
Socialism In England
One Of Socialisms Bitterest Critics
Will Speak At Seminar On May 20
Effects of socialism on British life will be discussed by Mr. 
Cecil Palmer, one of socialisms bitterest critics, at an Industrial 
Administration seminar on Friday, May 20.
The noted British author and publisher will present his views
Epsilon Phi presented So You 
Dont Like It, (a rather freely 
adapted As You Like It) to win 
honorable mention.
The climax to a perfect week
end was the formal dance in the 
circus-like atmosphere of the 
gymnasium. The smooth rhythms 
of Woody Hermans orchestra, 
sprinkled with a few livlier 
numbers, made a neat contrast 
with the hustle and bustle of the 
midway. During intermission 
Queen Gloria announced the win
ners and presented the trophies 
for the various events. Excited 
couples crowded close to the band
stand and let out loud cheers and 
disappointed moans as each an
nouncement was made.
?at 11:30 in the Carnegie Theater. 
Sponsored by the Industrial Ad
ministration department, the lec
ture is open to all interested fac
ulty and students.
Opposes Socialism
A strong opponent of controlled 
economy, the articulate.and sharptongued pournalism maintains that 
the policies of the Labor govern
ment are the reasons why Britain 
is poor and distressed. He is 
currently engaged in a sixteen 
week lecture tour of the United 
States under the sponsorship of
Cecil Palmer
& (tew
**f5 </&&& y<wt/VE. erfrf
Luckies fine tobacco picks you up when youre -mild, ripe, light tobacco No wonder more independ
io... calm, you down when youre tense-puts ent tobacco experts- aucrioneers, buyers and wareyou on the Lucky level I Thats why its so important ho^men-smoke Luck.es regular y than the next two 
to remember that YOL.4 2No.A nAifr mofA atviLLt leading branda combmed! Get a carton of Luck.es today!
I.S.//H.F.T luoAy Stoite Mean) Fine 7bAacco
be reLuck ie srfk ie sLnnt oapywc h ie srww auc wait eu .w cral
m,d-vk ISP ADP-NmAG I,OAmm, m,F
Toward Serfdom
He is against the nationaliza
tion of British industries, socializ
ed medicine as practiced in Eng
land and Marshall Plan aid to 
Great Britain . . . private en
terprise and individual initiative 
are being destroyed . . . England 
has traveled a long way toward 
serfdom.
He began his career in the pub
lishing field and by 1914 was man
aging his own firm. In 1936 he re
tired as a publisher in order to 
spend more time lecturing and 
writing.
Author of several books and 
many thousands of newspaper and ' 
magazine articles, he has a high 
reputation as a public speaker.- 
Through the recent war years he 
gave over 2,000 speeches in every 
important city in England for the 
National Savings committee.
P&D Student Elected 
To Teknon PresidencyJ
Sam Han, sophomore P & D, 
was elected president of the Tek! non club at a regular weekly 
meeting on April 27.
1 Other officers elected at this 
I time were Elinor Lloyd, vice 
president; Betsy Frye, secretary;
I and Bill Kail, treasurer.
the National Economic Council, 
Inc.
As he put it in an American 
Broadcasting company program 
last February, his purpose is to 
praise Great Britain and not to 
bury her. She is, I am bound to 
admit, down. But she is a million 
miles from being down and out.
Some of his other ideas on the 
British political and economic 
scene are illustrated in the fol
lowing remarks he made recently 
ac Fort Madison, Iowa. Despot
ism, class consciousness, the low
est standard of living in modern 
history, nationalized industries 
and a definite slide in the direction 
of communism are the direct re
sults of four years of socialistic 
rule.

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, MAY 18, 1949^
Sports HeadlinersBy Rosfeld
%rme
(gASSLER"
2eA ilikofh gire lifON COACH GUY HALFRTY'5 TRACK SQUAD,THE WATCHpbusn rwAAgrAN eir 
ddy yPnds H nuy mRPs pRy2dpPa,xd 
cdus2S
X i'  " ' f
2eA WiNDBER EeowwA 
pYRp0d9 eA 2pbRRY 
sdpRs9 Rm :3: ,y abd HBB 
cus9 9u2e
,bNfoA gogfT NOf
FROM THE NAZIS  
HE SERVED THREE
cAiNr of eA e
AN- T,-mPMMvsr?
Varsity Calendar
Wednesday, May 18  
Carnegie and Pitt tennis 
teams meet on the Tartan 
courts.
Thursday, May 19The 
Plaid golf squad will 
make its last trip of the 
current season to meet 
Grove City.
Saturday, May 21  
Coach Guy Halfertys
track team will compete 
in the Tri-State intercol
legiate Class B track 
meet. The tennis team 
will play away at Grove 
City.
Monday, May 23 
Geneva and Carnegie 
golfers will tangle at the 
Pittsburgh Field Club.
SPALDING
TWINS OF THE COURTS
BOTH THE F1BER-SEM.EP 
WRIGHT*OlTSON DAVIS CUP 
AND THE FJBER-WEEDED 
SPALDING KRO-BAT TENNI5 
Rackets have 
been played 
for vears
BV THE 
BEST/
BOTH 
MADE BY 
SPALDING*2?S#***
Plaid Tennis Team 
Stops Geneva 7-2; 
Bows To Grovers
Carnegie Techs tennis team de
feated their opponents from Gen
eva College on May 9 by a score 
of 7-2, The Tartans won the first 
seven matches and then forfeited 
the final two doubles in order to 
return home early. McConnell, 
Bassett, Cronin, Moon, Shoemaker, 
and Glass won for CIT in the 
singles, while Glass and Larimer 
were victorious in the doubles.
Grove City netmen eeked out 
a win over Tech in another match 
on May 11 by the score of 5 to 4. 
The visitors took a 3-0 lead as 
they won the first three singles 
but Bassett, Cronin, Becker, and 
Moon with Shoemaker put the 
Tartans into the lead 4-3 in the 
next four games. The hard fighting 
Grove City team then won the 
final two doubles matches to give 
them the victory.
Tartan Track Team 
Defeats Bethany
Cassler Spurs Team To Victory 
With Wins In 100 And 220
In their fifth track meet of this season the Carnegie Tech thinclads defeated the Bethany college track teaift by a score of 68% 
to 62%. The meet was held last Wednesday in the Tech Bowl. 
Doubtful through most of the afternoon, the meet was finally
?decided by the broad jump. In 
this event Luchok copped first
RODGERS
DAIRY
Try our
HAMBURGERS
Made with 100% pure beef 
U. S. Government inspected
HA-EP DNHW bSAWPb
Made with pure whole 
milk
RODGERS
Fart berwi
3905 FORBES STREET 
Near Boquet
4619 CENTER AVENUE 
Near Craig
5414 WALNUT STREET 
Shadyside
Other stores downtown
Independent 
Emanon Team 
Wins Trophy
Theta Xi Loses Control 
Of All-Points Title After 
Two Year Possession
Emanon, power-laden indepen
dent athletic organization, has 
wrapped up the all-points trophy 
for 1949.
Rolling up a tremendous total of 
1664 points, excluding the hand
ball and softball results, the 
strong independents who had been 
contenders for the past two years 
finally broke through the Theta 
Xi supremacy to mathematically 
cinch the title.
The ever dangerous TXs, who 
were fighting for their third con
secutive victory and consequently 
permanent possession of the tro
phy, are currently resting in sec
ond place with 1088 while the 
TNTs are in the show spot with 
950.
Citcom Falters
Emanons triumph marks the 
first time since the war years that 
the fraternities have failed to hold 
the coveted cup. Citcom, only oth
er independents to amass enough 
points to gain possession, turned 
the trick twice. The best the com
muter athletes could show this 
year, however, was a tenth place 
total of 568.
Other past winners are the 
PiKAs who are now sixth with 
756, the Betas with a 608 ninth 
position, and the DUs with 470 
points and 13th place.
Nonames, who wound up in 
second place behind the TXs for 
the last two years, started their 
quest for the trophy early by 
earning themselves the runnerup spot in touch football last fall. 
The campus title in volleyball 
pulled them abreast the TNTs 
who had won a campus crown in 
football and a league champion
ship in volleyball.
Emanon Pulls Ahead
The rest of .the year, however, 
was all Emanon with campus ti
tles in table tennis and wrestling 
and league drowns in bowling and 
soccer pulling them far ahead of 
the other competitors.
Oddly enough the two top teams 
met only once in championship 
competition. The Emanon table 
tennis team managed to squeeze 
out a close 3-2 decision in this sole 
meeting thereby strengthening 
their own position in the race 
twofold.
Bob Carr, Emanons intramural 
board representative, received the 
trophy on behalf of his organiza
tion at the intermission of last 
Saturdays spring carnival dance.
All-Points Standing
(ExcludingHandballand Softball)1.Emanon166419.TNT A1902.Theta Xi108820.ASCE1803.TNT95021. Big Five1804.Kap. Sigs871.522.Scobel Hall1305.Sigma Nu77023.FPHA1206.PiKA75624.TS1107.Phi Kap.74525. Forty Niners 1008.Delts71026.Dorm959.Betas60827.Purple Raid9010.Citcom56828.Wildmen80
11.ATO50529.Kap Sig B8012.TD50030.Obelisks7013.DU47031.Billikens7014.St. Steams44032.Emanon B7015.SAE432.533.Gringoes7016.Beta Sigs35534.Dons6017.Fr. Arch35035. Dragons50
18.Betas 2275
FOUR BARBERS TO 
SERVE YOU
If Youre Particular, See theIPmS OA-OP- bS,d
Corner of Craig and Forbes
place with a leap of 204, and 
Wilson placed second to give the 
Techites eight vital points. On an 
earlier jump Luchok had leaped s*> 
2131/2, but he had committed a 
foul by just barely missing the 
board on his take-off.
Cassler Double Winner 
Tartans took eight first places 
of the fifteen events. In the 100 
yard dash, Ernie Cassler, the only 
double winner for Tech, grabbed - 
a quick lead at the start and won 
the race by# several steps. He 
duplicated this feat in the 220 
yard dash as he pulled abreast of 
the other runners while only half
way around the turn.
Hammann got off to a slow start 
in the 120 yard high-hurdles and 
placed second in the race, a step 
behind Whitehead of Bethany. 
Davies set a fast pace for the first 
lap of the half-mile run, but Dor
man took the lead on the second 
lap and took the race in a close 
finish.
Two Mile Run Exciting 
The grueling two-mile run pro
vided a bit of excitement as the 
lead changed several times. On 
the final lap Alberts of Tech, after 
holding the, lead for several laps, 
faded back on the final turn and 
placed third. Hammann scored in 
a three-way tie for first place in 
the high jump. In the low hurdle 
race Wiewel grabbed the lead at 
the start but was overtaken on, ( 
the second hurdle by Whitehead, * 
Bethanys ace hurdler.
In the 4/5 mile relay, *Techs 
lead-off man, Cassler, gave the 
Techmen a 15 yard advantage as 
he pulled far ahead of the Beth
any runner. The Bethany lads al
most overcame this lead on the 
second leg of the relay, but on the 
next lap Price pulled away from 
the third Bethany runner and 
Davies held this lead ot the finish * 
line. 
Tartans Equal Opponents 
Cassler took top scoring honors 
of the meet with a total of llxfa 
points. This brings his total points 
for the season up to 47%. Ham
mann has accumulated 40 points 
this season, Davies 23% points, 
Kistler and Luchok 22 points, and 
Dorman 21% points. So far the 
Tartans have broken even in the 
scoring column with a total of 
319% points to their opponents 
319% points.
The Plaid team was scheduled 
to meet Westminster Tuesday 
afternoon in their final dual meet 
of this season.
Summary
Mile run: Won by LaTouretle (B); Liedke (B), second; Cooper (T), third. Time4:50.0.440 yd. dash: Won by Martens (B); Price (T), second; Dimon (T), third. Time:52.4. iHigh hurdles: Won by Whitehead (B); Hammann (T), second; Wiewel (T), third. Time:16.0.100 yd. dash: Won by Cassler (T); OConnor (B), second; Shearer (B), third. Time :10.1.880 yd. dash: Won by Dorman (T); Davies (T), second; Martens (B), thrd. Time2:04.0.220 yd. dash: Won by Cassler (T); McKibben (2), second; OConnor (B), third. Time:23.2.Two mile run: Won by Liebke (B); LaTourette (B), second; Alberts (T), third. Time10:31.0.120 yd. low hurdles: Won by Whitehead (B); Wiewel (T), second; Leister (T), third. Time:13.0.4/5 mile relay: Won by Tech iCass- ler, Dorman, Price, Davies) Time 2:41.0.Shot put: Won by Kistler (Ti; Gar- llck <BJ, second; Strapler (B), third. Distance378 V*.Pole vault: Won by Green (T); Leister (T), second; Bruhn (B) and Irwin (T) tied for third. Height10.Discus: Won by Freese (Bt; Traut- man (T), second: Staples (B), third.
Distance 113 8l/a.High jump: Tie for first: Hammann (Tl, Straples (B), Topp (B). Height-55
Javelin: Won by Schreiber (B)!Staples <B), second; Ofterman (T). / 
third. Distance138 8Vi.Broad jump: Won by Luchok (Tw Wilson <T), second;. Straples (B), third. 
Distance204.

---------------------------------------------------

bSP mP-IANGHR Nb A *K E,-EP,Bb GORGON/ F,H,-Pbk WHY G,I bGAd ,BI ,T NI AGF OP J TAN- I, R,B-bPHT ?WX
cm ISNb FNbDAH SHARD OP ISP ,GmPM-AFNAGI -,bPOBF k YP YP-P ISNGWNGE ,T dNmWNGE 1 Ab 0BPPG ,T ,B- %BGP OAHHU3
9mAG N SPHd NI NT N TPPH HNWP 5 ISP HAbI -,bP ,T bBDDP- q T-,D bIBFRNGE AGF bD,WNGE5 b, DBmS U J
4 3 mAG bPP YSP-P N 6q 
A--NCPF %BbI NG INDP q
F,H,-Pb ISP-PVb 
NO CIGARETTE HANGOVERYSPG teL bYNImS I, 
PHILIP MORRIS/ YSRG,I ENCP ISPD A I-NAHU k
m,GE-AIBHAIP %,SGGRg ISAGWb I, SND IT'S NO CIGARETTE HANGOVERT,- DP AGR D,-P g
TPPH IP--NOHPMOBI9 NVHH I-R ISPDh
ISAI SAGFb,DP AHHMADP-NmAG T,,IOAHH bIA- mP-IANGHR TNGFb 
NEPENTHE NG ,B- F,H,-Pbg
Gn, Y,GFP-g dSNHNd D,--Nb
AGF ISAI bPIINGE SACP DPIAD,-dS,bPF.wr m,DdHPIPHRg C
PaulRloabi nsTT AddArerACIleading brand!PROVEDother
Theodore And Collins 
Win Athlete Awards
Basketball Captain, Phi Kap Athlete
Honored With Troph ies By Tartan
Mike Theodore, captain of Carnegie Techs basketball team, and 
Jack Collins, Phi Kappas all-around athlete, were recipients of 
the Carnegie Tartans first annual trophy awards to the outstanding 
varsity and intramural athletes of the year. The presentations were 
made at intermission time of the Spring Carnival formal dance last 
Saturday night. ?------------------------------------------
Constitutions, Bylaws Approved 
At Student Council Meeting
Student Council cleaned up some tag-ends of business last 
week in a surprisingly uneventful meeting. Most of the business cov
ered was approval of bylaws and constitutions of various organizations. ------------------------------------------------- '
For Theodore, the Tartans bril
liant basketball star, it was an
other step on the road of a spec
tacular collegiate athletic career. 
The former Wilmerding high 
school football and basketball star 
has proven himself to be one of 
the best players put forth on the 
Skibo gym floor in the history of 
the sport at Carnegie.
Offensive and Defensive Star
In three years of competition 
he has been not only outstanding 
on the offensive side of the picture, 
but heads above his other team
mates on defense. In every game 
Mike would be assigned the de
fensive duties on the leading scor
er of the opposition. Invariably he 
would come through.
Captain of the basketball squad 
for the past two years and elected 
once again for next season, Mike 
proved his value during the past 
season when he poured 325 points 
through the nets  most of them 
coming after painful back and arm 
injuries slowed him down early in 
the campaign. He is a member of 
Sigma Nu fraternity.
Seven-Sport Star
Jack Collins, junior math major 
and a member of Phi Kappa fra
ternity, was chosen as the out
standing intramural athlete by the 
Tartan sport staff on the basis of 
his unusual ability in all sports, 
his sportsmanship, his team play 
or value, and his contributions to 
the intramural program at Car
negie.
He has competed for three years 
in touch football, bowling, volley
ball, basketball, soccer, handball, 
and softbali. He is a member of 
both the Managers Club and In
tramural Board.
Honors Won By Civils 
For Technical Paper
Samuel R .Harper, Jr. and John 
E. Heinzerling, both senior civil 
engineering students, have won 
first place honors for a technical 
paper presented to a meeting of 
the North Central Conference of 
Student Chapters of the American 
Society of Civil Engineers.
The paper, Deflection of a 
Three-Hinged Trussed Arch, was 
read by Heinzerling before 139 
student delegates from five states 
during the meeting at Case In
stitute of Technology.
FOR SALE  Kitchen and 
front room furniture, only six 
months old. Moving out of 
state at end of semesterhave 
to sell. Phone FR. 7132 after 
6:30 p. m.
Let's go to
ISALY'S
Milk Shakes 
Big Ice Cream Cones 
Klondikes 
Tasty Lunches
I.rww berwi Nu .w mennw/w 
Firp
!( Ter)wi brwwv bLrrwn Snn
z*3 Ter)wi brww ,aynauc 
Main Plants
zz( OeLnw;irc es )w Annwi
Softball Schedule
Wednesday, May 184:30Grad Chems 
vs. PiKAs; Tau Delts vs. Gringoes; 
Clippers vs. 49ers; TNT vs. DU.6:00 
ATO vs. TNT; Faculty vs. Stanley 
Steamers; SAE vs. TX; Beta Sigs vs. 
Delts.
Thursday4:30Gringoes vs. Phi 
Kaps; Emanon vs. Freshman Arch; Kap
pa Sigs vs. 49ers; DU vs. Sigma Nu Q. 6:00Beta Sigs vs. Betas.
Friday4:30Citcom vs. TX; Grad Chems vs. Sigma Nu P; Dramats vs.' Citcom B; Delts vs. Emanon.6:00 Tau Delts vs. PiKA; Sigma Nu Q vs. Grad Physicists; Faculty vs. Betas.
Monday, May 234:30Citcom vs. Sigma Nu^Q; 49ers vs. PiKA; Dramats vs. Faculty; Kappa Sigs vs. Tau Delts. 6:00Stanley Steamers vs. Delts; Freshman Arch vs. Betas; DU vs. ATO.
Tuesday4:30Dramats vs. Emanon; Citcom vs. SAE; Sigma Nu P vs. Gringoes; Beta Sigs vs. Freshman Arch! 6:00Grad Physicists vs. DU; Phi Kaps vs. 49ers.
VA Notice
All veterans are requested to 
come to the Veterans Office, NS 
133, before the end of May for 
the following reasons: to have 
remaining entitlement comput
ed, to plan for registration for 
summer session or fall semes
ters, to report completion of 
course, to apply for supplement
al certificates of eligibility, to 
report intention of not return
ing to Carnegie Tech during the 
summer or fall of 1949.
Requisitions for equipment 
(including books) and supplies 
for the spring semester 1948- 
1949 will not be honored by the 
book store after May 21, 1949.
Sigma Xi Chapter 
Initiates Members
The Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology Chapter of The Society of 
the Sigma Xi will initiate 93 new 
members and associate members 
at the Church of the Redeemer at 
5:00 p. m., Wednesday, May 18. 
The ceremony will be followed by 
a banquet, at which Dr. J. A. 
Hutcheson, Director, Westinghouse 
Research Laboratories, will ad
dress the chapter on the subject 
Atomic Energy in War and 
Peace.
Councilman Gerry Meyers mov
ed the acceptance of the new Kil
tie band constitution, and John 
Fockler asked for a change in 
Canos bylaws. Elections for the 
Technical and Cano publications 
were approved as well as minor 
changes in the Tartan constitu
tion.
Upon recommendation from 
elections chairman Reynolds, the 
date for final acceptance of the 
petitions was moved back from 
the 12th to the 20th of May. The| 
election date was changed from 
May 24 to May 27.
Band Control Questioned
In discussion concering the Kil
tie band contsitution, Bob Sinclair 
objected to the section which 
places the band director in com
plete control of the band and 
grants him the power to appoint 
the drum major and the student 
director.
This section no longer makes 
the band a student controlled or
ganization, said Sinclair. Since 
the new constitution was accepted
by a vote of 35 to 1 within the 
band, Council members felt that 
it was acceptable to those most 
affected. The constitution was ac
cepted by a vote of 21 to 1.
Canos bylaws were changed so 
as to place the literary publicat ~n under the control of the Tech
nical editorial board. This was 
done to simplify matters since 
Cano and the Technical work so 
closely together anyway.
Appointments were made to the 
Freshman Orientation committee 
by President Ryan. Those named 
were Sara J. Hutchinson, Hilda 
Jacob, Wes Kenney, and Richard 
Schaffer.
Proposal Fails
An amendment to Councils 
constitution in the form of an 
arbitration board was proposed 
by Councilman Henry Clay, but 
the motion was not carried since 
it failed to gain the two-thirds 
support of the Council.
j^^VeUGHTS F,H,-Pb YNIS CP-INENG,Bb
CNbIAb ,T'SAdb,FNm -Pm,EGNIN,Gg
rO dHPAbPk -A7XK DR IS-,AI TPPHb 
HNWP A DESICCATED GBIDPE AGF DR D,BIS9b AHH bIAHP AGF bD,WPFM,BI
dHPAbP F,k F,HHRg PHILIP MORRIS Nb ISP ONE mNEA-PIIP PROVED FPTNGNIPHR 
HPbb N--NIAINGEg
F,H,-Pbk ISAI FNCNGP GOYG DAWPb R,B HNWP ISP O-PAIS ,T bd-NGE NIbPHTM AGF R,B H,,W b, SAddRXXX
-    /
Use These Words with Tongue-in-Cheek!
(Plan to use ONE every week!)
DESICCATED (dess-ik-a-ted)-dried-up.
GORGON (gor-gon)a mythical she-monster 
with snakes for hair.
METAMORPHOSED (met-ah-mor.fozed)  
transformed.
NEPENTHE (nee-penthe)a potion to ban 
ish pain or misery.
NO CIGARETTE HANGOVER  no stale 
smoked-out taste; no tight dry feeling in 
your throat due to smoking.
RHAPSODIC (rap-sod-ik)charged with emo
tion, usually of delight.
SHARD (shard)-a broken piece or fragment.
VERTIGINOUS (vur-tii-in-us)-giddy, dizzy.
WEDNESDAY, MAY 18, 1949 THE CARNEGIE TARTAN

---------------------------------------------------

IT'S CAMELS 
FOR ME, PAT  
FOR TASTE AND 
MILDNESS !
THE 30*DAY 
MILDNESS TEST WON 
ME OVER. RUSS. 
CAMELS ARE SO MILD!
iWT btnwc in the Mor
gan manner. "Forever 
and Ever is dance-tempt
ing. Russ likes smooth music 
and mild cigarettes. ,Camels,, 
says Russ"theyre my idea of 
a mild, fine-tasting smoke!
IIn a recent coast-to-coast test of hundreds of men and women who smoked 
Camels, and only Camels, for 30 days, noted 
throat specialists, making weekly examinations, reported
G,I ,GP bNGEHP mAbP 
,T IS-,AI N--NIAIN,G
due to smoking
mADPHb1
Hare System Explained, Discussed
Pro .
By Henry Clay
Whether we like to face it or 
not we are here for an education 
first and extra-curricular activi
ties must come second. The all 
school elections fall into this cate
gory.
During this last election, Dormicom appeared and offered stiff 
resistance to the well organized 
fraternity machine. Dormicom 
won out in the election, but not 
because it said the magic words. 
Hours were consumed preparing 
posters, campaign strategy anH 
in contacting the voters. It might 
be said that the factors became 
inversely proportional to the num
ber of votes solicited.
Hare System Solution
Approximately the same thing 
will happen this time. The only 
rub is that both machines will 
have to work and work hard, wit* 
the finals coming up, in order to 
stir the voters up again.
All of this could be avoided 
with the introduction of the Hare 
System. Small organizations could 
elect representatives to the Coun
cil without one scrap of campaign
ing. This is possible by stressing 
the importance of the first place 
vote. The students would be rep
resented according to the concept 
of proportional representation.
Time Saver
Even more amazing are the time 
studies made by the APO on the 
last two elections. It took nine 
APO men nine hours to count 
fifteen hundred ballots in the last 
Council Election. Just a few weeks 
ago it took nine APO men three 
hours to count 1281 ballots. Quite 
obviously, the Hare System is 
much the easier to count.
In view of these facts it is easi
ly seen that the Hare System 
could eliminate the need for po
litical machines, provide a system 
of proportional representation, 
and simply the job of counting 
the ballots.
(Due to the great difference of opinion that has arisen concern
ing the Hare system of counting ballots and the demand for an ex
planation that can be understood by all, we have here presented an 
explanation and a debate on the subject.Ed.)
Explanation
Just what is the Hare System and how does it work was the 
burning question in the minds of the girls during the recent Carni
val Queen election. Few people really understand the systems work
ings, but the explanation is very simple.
The Hare System is predicated ?-----------------------------------------------------
upon the assumption that the vot
er puts most of his thought and 
consideration into choosing his 
first choice for any given office 
and that any subsequent choices 
are subordinated to the first place 
vote.
An analogy will serve to ex
plain this. Let us suppose that 
you and twenty-four of your 
friends were asked to pick the 
worlds five best baseball players 
out of a list of twenty candidates. 
Each man votes on a preferential 
ballot for as many choices as he 
desides, the first place vote being 
the most important.
Quota Determined
Next, the number of ballots cast 
is divided by a number one larg
er than the members to be elected 
(twenty-five is divided by six). 
The next whole number larger 
than the resulting quotient is the 
quota necessary to elect a mem
ber (in this case the quota is 
five.) The votes are now separat
ed and put in piles according to 
the first place choices. 
Let us suppose that fourteen of  
the candidates got no first place 
votes whatsoever. Stan Musial 
and Ted Williams got eight first 
place votes each, Joe DiMaggio 
and Luke Appling three each, Lou 
Boudreau two, and Ralph Kiner 
one. Stan Musial and Ted Wil
liams have more than the quota 
and ar elected. Each of the two 
men has three votes in excess of 
the quota.
Votes Transferred
These six votes are transferred 
to the second choices by a fool
proof system of numbering. Three 
of the votes are cast for Lou i
Boudreau, two for Joe DiMaggio 
and one for Ralph Kiner. Lou 
Boudreau and Joe DiMaggio are 
declared elected. Since none of 
the other fourteen candidates have 
made a showing worthy of selec
tion, they are declared defeated.
Ralph Kiner has the least first 
place votes, so he is declared de
feated and his votes are trans
ferred, in this case to Luke Ap
pling and he is elected. (It has 
been assumed that the second and 
third choices were as indicated.)
Easily Adaptable
Naturally this is only a sample 
and the possibilities are numer
ous, but it works much the same 
way in all cases and technicali
ties are easily handled, by the 
more complicated special case 
sections of the System. The Sys
tem says in effect I want Stan 
Musial first, if he doesnt have 
enough votes, or if he gets more 
than he need, I want Lou Boud
reau next, etc.
RENT ATYPEWRITER
For the Rest of Your School Term
4K!(
^ month
I 7 OA more work 1 ' /0 don*
S n/n ,ewer |*-*11I/O spelled words 
700/, fewer errors/0 in English
TYPEWRITERS
All Makes as Low as
ADP-NmAG IRdPY-NIP- m,v
Convenient Parkin? A ffc I A | 
II Wood St. CO 1019
Con
By John Biffley
Many of the arguments present
ed for the Hare system are sound, 
but the proponents of the system 
seem to have forgotten that voters 
want all of their votes counted 
rather than just a small percent
age.
Under the Hare system only the 
first, second, and occasionally the 
third place votes of the voter are 
ever counted. Advocates of the 
Hare system answer that voters 
are really only interested in get
ting their first place choices in 
office and that the rest of the votes 
are merely afterthoughts.
What they have forgotten is that 
the voters are represented by all 
councilmen, not just their first 
place choices.
One of the arguments for the 
Hare system is that it places a 
great weight on the first place 
vote. The present system doe? that 
too, but also counts the remain
ing votes and weight- them ac
cordingly.
Sing Rules Will 
Be Changed
Pan Hell, IF To Revise 
Greek Sing Rules
Panhell and IF Council have or
ganized committees for the revis
ion of Greek Sing Rules. The in
adequacy of these rules has been 
apparent in contests of the past 
few years and the new revisions 
are intended to make the rules 
more specific.
Disqualification of participants 
on bases previously unknown to 
the organizations has been the re
sult of the indefiniteness of the 
rules. The committees are work
ing on a set of clearly defined 
rules which will give everyone in
terested definite requirements and 
will specify the grounds for disqualizcation.
Lack of knowledge of such de
tails as the use of black face 
and other unique twists hereafter 
will not have to cause disappoint
ment on the part of those disqual
ified.
I
Smoothness and Styling "ForForever And Ever"For
A NEW DECCA DISC
-Lii Der/au auc .i ne;wnt 
;epanik da Harck any e;wr .w 
mafwn Dncuwii Iwi
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Winitoo-Salem, N. C.
THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, MAY 18, 1949

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, MAY 18, 1949THE CARNEGIE TARTAN7
The Carnegie Plaid
Page edited by Evening School Students of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology
Co-editors .......................... Robert Ellstrom, Frank Mihelich
Associate Editor ....................... Raymond Schwalm
Circulation Manager ........................................ George Dawes
Staff
George Bogovich, James Flaherty, Cecille Zellner
Editorial
Not Even A Nibble
At various times during the past year the editor has ex
tended invitations to the evening student body to submit let
ters of comment regarding Plaid publication or campus ac
tivities.
The editor has even baited the hook with suggestions re
garding items that are open for criticism or correction, but 
the hook remains untouched.
It is rather difficult to try to satisfy the evening students 
when they do not cooperate by coming forth with the ideas 
that are necessary to maintain a spirited and interesting Plaid 
and a full student social calendar.
The digs that have been used in an attempt to wake up a 
dormant student body have been futile. Is it going to be 
necessary to use dynamite or will the students, after a restful 
summer period, surprise the editors by flooding the mailbox 
with a carload of criticism? It will be interesting to find out!
We feel that the Plaid has a definite responsibility to the 
students in its part-time function as official organ of Evening 
Student Council. However, if the students do not appreciate 
the work which the Plaid is doing and show that appreciation 
by letters in response to the editors opinions, then the Plaid 
cannot fulfill its obligations. In the future we hope to serve 
the students, but we can only do so if they hope that the stu
dents will have enough interest in the campus activities and 
in the work of Evening Student Council to participate whole
heartedly.
ATIantic 3734
NewsAndViews
Our school weeks are fast run
ning out and another school year 
will soon be just a memory, yet 
with all the hard work it entails 
and the many disappointments, a 
fellow soon realizes that its not 
a bad lot to be cast into, and in 
fact enjoys the rugged schedule 
that comprises a school year from 
the initial lecture to the final ex
amination.
Now that we have dispensed 
with the lament, The End of the 
School Year, let us also mention 
that the evening students will 
have their last opportunity to view 
a presentation by the Carnegie 
Tech drama students for this year. 
Antigone, and The Showing of 
Blanco Posnet, a double bill, will 
brace the stage of the Carnegie 
theater late in May.
We have been intending to men
tion this bit of news in our col
umn for the last few weeks, but 
we were never able to get the 
exact information. We understand 
that Mr. Gaylor, mathematics in
structor at Carnegie Tech evening 
school is a lieutenant colonel in 
the field artillery of the Pennsyl
vania National Guard. Mr. Gay
lor also teaches mathematics at 
Pitt during the day.
Although the attendance at the 
Swim Dance was not as large as 
it could have been, those that 
were present had a good time.
Jim Flaherty, president of Sig
ma Delta Phi, corrected us by 
stating that the end of the school 
year does not necessarily mean 
the last opportunity for evening 
students to get together. He ad
vises us that Sigma Delta Phi has 
formulated a social calendar that 
will offer the fraternity members 
many social activities during the 
coming summer months.
Louis Adams, active evening 
student who has devoted much 
of his free time the last three 
years to the Plaid and the Even
ing Student Council, is leaving us 
this semester and will enroll in 
journalism at the University of 
Pittsburgh.
Lou has the good wishes and 
thanks of all the fellows who have 
worked with him on evening 
school activities.
Phi Gamma Phi Holds 
Last Social Of Year
Evening Sorority Plans Dance 
In Thistle Hall On June 17
Phi Gamma Pi, evening sorority, is making its bid for the last 
social function of the year on the Carnegie campus with a dance 
on June 17 in Thistle Hall. Dancing is from 9 to 12 p. m., with 
music furnished by Wes Parker and his orchestra. The affair will
be semi-formal with flowers op-* 
tional.
This dance marks the third an
niversary of Phi Gamma Pi as an 
active organization on campus.
It is their first attempt to spon
sor such an event, but they feel 
that they will receive enough 
support to make it a success. 
Tickets are $3.00 per couple and 
will be avialable from any mem
ber or from Mr. McKelway 
IH 132-B.
On Saturday, May 21, the group 
will hold their annual banquet 
at the University Club. The speak
er for the evening will be Captain 
Rose Kennsington of the Missing 
Persons Bureau of Pittsburgh. 
Miss Kennsington is a very capa
ble speaker with many interest
ing experiences to draw on for her
talk. Miss Josephine Campbell and 
Mrs. Rosalie Hagins will be guests 
at the dinner which is being plan
ned by Miss Mary Episcipo, social 
chairman.
At their meeting on Sunday, 
May 8, the girls discussed plans 
to attend one of the Civic Light 
Operas as a group in order to 
give the girls a chance to keep in 
touch with each other during the 
summer.
VA Notice
Requisitions for equipment (in
cluding books) and supplies for 
the spring: semester 1948-1949
will not be honored by the book 
store after May 21, 1949.
Supplementary Term Schedule
Students following a degree program should schedule one of the following 
subjects in accordance with information on pages 23-41 of the 1948-49 Bulletin 
of Evening Classes: C 109, C 110, C 401, C 402, C 501, S 231, E 201, E 202, 
E 571, E 572.
Any student who wishes information or advice concerning his plans for 
the Supplementary Term should call at the office of the Registrar of Evening 
Classes.
June 10 to August 6, 1949
S102Gen. Chemistry (9)
Rec. or Lee.................... M.W.Th.7:30- 9:30E.H.218, 216$50.40Lab..................................... F.7:00-10:30E.H.218, 214 (Deposit $5.00)S211College Algebra (8) .. M.W.F.7:30- 9:30I.H.215$44.80s212Trigonometry (8) __. M.W.F.7:30- 9:30I.H.211$44.80s213Analytic Geometry (8). M.W.F.7:30- 9:30I.H.208$44.80s214Calculus I (8) ............ M.W.F.7:30- 9:30I.H.209$44.80s215Calculus II (8) ...... M.W.F.7:30- 9:30I.H.210$44.80s216Calculus III (8). M.W.F.7:30- 9:30I.H.229-B$44.80s231Statics (8) .................... M.W.F.7:30- 9:30I.H.319-A$44.80s232Dynamics (8) .............. M.W.F.7:30- 9:30I.H.319-E$44.80s233Str. of Materials (8) .. M.W.F.7:30- 9:30I.H.235-A$44.80s405bPhysics I (9)Rec. or Lee.................. M.W.7:00- 8:30F.700-10:00,E.H. 209, 111Lab..................................... M.W.8:30-10:30E.H204, 102$50.40s406bPhysics II (9)Rec. or Lee................... M.W.7:00- 8:30F.7:00-10:00,f.H. 209, 1008:30-10:30E.H300-B, 107$50.40
E201Surveying (9) ........... M.W.6:30- 9:30Sat.1:30- 4:30E.H.60, 54$50.40E202Surveying (.9) ............M.W.6:30- 9:30Sat.1:30- 4:30E.H60, 54$50.40E571Draw. & Desc,Geom I (9) ............... M.W.F.6:30-10:30I.H.346$50.40E572Draw. & Desc.Geom. II (9) ............. M.W.F.6:30-10:30I.H.346$50.40
C109English Composition (9) ................... M.W.F.7:30- 9:30I.H.237-A$43.20C110English Composition (9) ....................... M.W.F.7:30- 9:30I.H.235-B$43.20C401Economics I (9) .......... M.Th.7:00-10:00I.H.232-E$43.20c402Economics II (9). Tu.F. .7:00-10:00I.H232-E$43.20c50JIntro. Psychology (9).. M.W.F.7:30- 9:30I.H.336-B$43.20
REGISTRATION for the Supplementary Term will be held on Friday evening, June 10, between 7:00 and 9:00. in the Office of the Registrar of Evening Classes, Room 132-A, Industries Hall. Students registered during 1948-49 should present their original registration receipt cards.
THE SCHEDULE OF CLASSES goes into effect on Monday evening, June 13. Subjects with less than ten registrants may be withdrawn. No classes will be held on Monday, July 4.
DALZIEL McKELWAY Registrar of Evening Classes.
EXPERT REPAIRS
RADIOS, PHONOGRAPHS, APPLIANCES
Sales and Service
LEWIS RADIO 
ELECTRIC CO.
1123 OAKLAND AVE. HA. 4211
Bring Your Radio Problems 
To Us
12 TEAKS EXPERIENCE
At Your Service
Special Lunches for 
Students and Businessmen
11:00 A. M.2:00 P. M. 40e and UP
ABISPGINm mSNGPbP ,NbSPbg) ,rq "
ADP-NmAG FNbSPb bP-CPF
Bamboo Gardens
3531 FORBES STREET 
MA. 7493
Spring Carnival is jComing! I
3 HR. DRY CLEANING SERVICE
Let US help you make THIS Spring 
Carnival more enjoyable for you.
0BNmW -,BES F-R HABGF-R bP-CNmP
CAMPUS CLEANERS
4609 Forbes Street MUseum 1288

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, MAY 18, 1949
becouse
taste. ^ 
Ny goftte
y^Wh n*e
safeW" 
Wilder- Us
l'Gerr,
When you smoke CHESTERFIELD
you get a Milder/ cooler smoke. 
Thats why its My Cigarette.
bIA--NGE NG
"O-NFP ,T CPGEPAGmP"
A dA-AD,BGI dNmIB-P
Copyright 1949. Lwcerr It Mvau Tobacco (a
berL ucki kis ber kfnL ct oeaapueey fty ucki weaashsL kee
Bulletin Board
Madonna, and The Birthday 
Party  Jocelyn Reston, drama 
senior, plays the lead in the Por
trait play. Richard Lodge, grad
uate of Carnegie Techs drama 
department, and Wesley Kenney, 
Jr., junior in drama, will both be 
featured in the Hope play.
Wandering Greeks Asked 
To Register
All wandering Greeks are re
quested to register at the Dean 
of Mens office by May 25.
Newman Club President 
Announces Agenda
Bill Cotter, newly installed 
president of the Newman Club 
has announced the next meeting 
will be held on Thursday, May 
19, at 4:30 in EH 122.
On the agenda are the appoint
ments of chairmen to the publici
ty, activities, and Catholic action 
committees. Cotter will also out
line the program and social cal
endar for the coming school year. 
Included in the program will be
Robert Cordray 
Chosen To Be 
NetV Cano Editor
as complete a report of the clubs 
participation in intramural sports 
as is possible, Cotter said.
Immediate social plans include 
a basket picnic on Sunday, May 
22, in South Park. Those attend
ing will gather in front of MMCC 
at 1:30. Transportation will be ar
ranged.
Pan-Hell Sponsors Picnic 
For Freshmen Women
Panhellenic council will spon
sor a non-rush picnic party for 
freshman women in the rear gar
den of Carnegie Union from 4:30 
to 7:15 on May 26. All freshman 
women interested in sororities are 
invited to attend.
Each sorority on campus will 
send representatives to act as 
hostesses at the informal picnic 
dinner.
In case of rain the party will 
take place in the main living room 
of the Union.
At a meeting of the editorial 
board on May 10, Robert Hv Cord
ray was elected editor-in-chief of 
the campus literary magazine, 
Cano. The new editor was a mem- ^ 
ber of the editorial board this 
past year and has contributed 
many articles to the magazine.
Other executive positions on 
Canos new staff will be filled by 
Miriam Walfish, feature editor; 
David Steiner, managing editor; 
Joe Groell, art editor; Robert 
Broida, circualtion editor; Arthur 
Zuch, advertising manager; and , 
Winnie Sample, secretary.
Cordray announced that the 
first issue of Cano will appear in 
the registration line next Septem
ber.
Annual Metals Club Picnic 
Set For May 19
The Metals Club of Carnegie 
Tech will have its annual picnic 
Thursday, May 19, at Willow Tree 
Grove, South Park. Tickets are 
priced at $1.25.
All graduate students and fac
ulty members are invited to at
tend.
Applications for Pan-Hell 
Scholarship Now Available
Panhellenic council, making 
clear qualifications for its one 
hundred dollar scholarship, point
ed out that the award will be 
made on the basis of scholarship 
and need of assistance.
Applications for the scholarship, 
which is open to any worthy 
woman student on Carnegie cam
pus, may be secured at the office 
of the Dean of Women. All ap
plications must be submitted be
fore May 23.
C/T Represented In "Y" 
Playhouse Productions
Three one-act plays, directed by 
Barry Fornal, Carnegie Tech dra
ma senior, will be presented May 
24 and May 25 by the Y Play
house.
CIT will be well represented in 
the three plays, Hope Is a Thing 
With Feathers, Portrait of a
Thistle Distribution
Begins May 27
Students with Thistle receipts 
can pick up their copies of the 
yearbook on Friday, May 27. Those 
who have made only partial pay
ment can pay the remainder on 
the same date. Further particulars 
will be announced in a later issue 
of the Tartan.
At the annual Thistle banquet 
on May 26, the 1949 Thistle will be 
presented and the 1950 staff an
nounced.
