The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 36 No. 23 CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OP TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA. TUESDAY, MARCH 16, 1943
Military Dance Is 
Last For Duration
Yes, this is going to be the last 
chance for the students of Carnegie 
Tech to attend a Military Ball for 
the duration of the war. G Company 
of the 6th Regiment of Scabbard 
and Blade will become inactive, 
along with all the other 150 chap
ters, at the end of this semester. It 
is because of this fact that they are 
holding their first spring Ball, since 
1928 when this chapter was organ
ized.
The date for this last dance, 
Chuck Jones, chairman of the dance 
committee, assured us it will also be 
the bestis March 20. That Satur
day evening the couples will dance 
in the Mens Gym to the music of 
Brad Hunts orchestra.
An added attraction will be the 
favors that will be given to each 
girl, and since I am not permitted to 
tell what they will be I will say that 
they are super. The Black Cat, the 
cozy refreshment bar, will also pro
vide a place for the momentarily 
tired, where they can sit out, talk, 
and revitalize themselves.
Chuck Jones, general chairman; 
George Tankosich, business chair
man; Dick Dumm, publicity chair
man; and decorations chairmen, 
Pinky Lees and Earl Ferrell are all 
putting in plenty of overtime to 
guarantee that the dance will be a 
success for all that come.
Unlike previous dances held by 
Scabbard and Blade this one will 
not have any queens, but instead 
a group of girls have been selected 
as Sponsors. They are the girls pic
tured above forming the V-Lambda, 
the Greek symbols of this chapter. 
Another deviation from the stand
ard program of previous Balls will 
be the absence of the presentation of 
pledges, as all the new pledges are 
already active.
The $2.20 admission price is small 
indeed compared to the fun and en
joyment gained by attending. Since 
uniforms and recommended, here is 
a chance for all the R. O. T. C. men 
to give their girl friends a special 
preview as to see how they will look 
when they get their U. S. Army uni
forms.
Pan-American Travelogue 
At Todays Assembly
As a welcome change from the 
great abundance of war topics now 
in circulation, Student Council will 
sponsor an assembly of travel mov
ies on South America, to be shown 
in the Little Theater at 11:30, today.
Included in the movies for today 
will be travel talks on Brazil and 
on the cities of Buenos Aires in Ar
gentina and Montevideo in Uruguay. 
Until World War II our relations 
and trade with South America were 
not as good as those of European 
countries such as Germany. Hence, 
these informative movies have been 
sent to us as part of a series which 
aims to better acquaint us with our 
South American neighbors.
Council Representative 
Elected According to 
Constitution Revision
Representatives on Student Coun
cil will be elected this year accord
ing to the Porportional Representa
tion planthat ison the basis of 
one representative for each hundred 
students. The only changes, as far 
as Margaret Morrison council repre
sentatives are concerned, are in the 
election of Senate President and 
Vice-President, and in the qualifiacations for those offices. There will 
be no class offices or Senates in 
either the College of Engineering or 
in the College of Fine Arts.
In Margaret Morrison, no girl will 
be eligible for a council position un
less she has already held one class 
office. Juniors so qualified may 
run for Senate President by secur
ing petitions for senior class coun
cil representative. After the elec
tion, the senior council member ob
taining the largest number of votes 
will become President; the junior 
with the highest number of votes 
will become Vice-President; the 
treasurer and secretary will be as 
before treasurer and secretary of 
the Junior class.
For the past few years, the only 
functioning school. Senate has been 
that one in Margaret Morrison. The 
present officers believe that it is de
sirable to keep this body active; 
they want to foster an interest 
among the students in class offices. 
It is for this reason that they have 
ruled that only students who have 
had experience in student govern
ment are to serve on Council.
There will be no change in the 
class elections; class officers being 
president, vice president, secretary, 
treasurer, and senate representative. 
They will be carried on as before.
Bob Cummings To
Will you sign my petition, 
please?
If some lovely vision of feminine 
pulchritude approaches you with 
this question and an extended pa
per and pencil, dont hesitatesign: 
for each Campus Beauty Queen as
pirant must submit a petition signed 
by twenty Carnegie students by 
4:30 this afternoon. On Thursday, 
March 18 there will be an all-school 
election from 11:30 to 1:30 at the 
regular voting places to determine 
the seven lucky girls who will com
pose the court and who will enter 
the final eliminations.
The final winner will be selected 
by ex-movie actor Bob Cummings, 
a former drama student at Carnegie 
Tech, who has graciously consented 
to be the judge of the contest. Al
though he isnt coming to the cam
pus, the pictures of the girls will be 
sent to him, and he will choose the 
lucky girl solely from these photo
graphs. The selection and corona
tion of the Queen will be the high 
point of the Spring Carnival to be 
held on campus Friday and Satur
day, April 9 and 10.
A tentative program for carnival
Photo by Lou Klein
This year they are called sponsors. Reading from left to right: Marcia 
Wachtor, Pat McCullough, Jean Layton, Dottie King, Marge Weatherwax, 
Marge Maddox, Frannie Carlock, Frances Felthouse, Doris Fast, Martha 
Sekey, Gladys Mattson, Helen Robinson, Mary McCarthy, Betty Wieble. 
Absent: Peggy Glenn, Betsy Ross, Betsy Beall.
Q/iIa, Q/i /I/a,
Homey Touch Added 
To Metallurgy Course
Grampa Gremlin reeled out of 
the Carnegie Tech metallurgry lab 
the other day and was heard to say, 
It cant be! The place is clean! 
This was no reflection on the clean
up staffs, for no metallurgy lab is 
expected to be clean like the kitchen 
sink. However, since the female 
element of the household descended 
upon the helpless placed, they have 
become as spotless as the latter 
item of standard kitchen equipment 
no fooling!
Now of course little things like 
laboratories are thought of as the 
lairs of men, who care not whether 
they are too clean or not. At least, 
the idea of making them spotless is 
out of the questionor was. Now 
the women have gone and done it! 
Eighteen women invaded the labs 
to take an 8-hour, tuition free, 
course offered under the Engineer
ing, Science and Management War 
Training Program, and they drove 
the men nuts driving the dirt out.
The men, naturally, raised objec
tions of all sorts, complaining that 
someday they expected to find lace 
curtains adorning the windows, but 
there was little that they could say. 
The women, as particular about 
their work as about the places in 
which they work, were really on 
the beam with the precision and 
patience with which they tackled 
the job of learning how to work 
for the war materials lab, showing 
that their ambition went farther 
than housecleaning.
Classes, under Mrs. Kathleen 
Wells, meet from 1 to 5 oclock five 
days a week, and the registration 
for the second course, to begin 
March 29, will be held on March 26 
from 1 to 5 and from 10 until noon 
March 27, in room 35, Engineering 
Hall.
Sing & Swing Becomes 
Double-Night Affair
Although there has been some 
controversy as to the dates of Sing 
and Swing, it is definite that the af
fair will be held both Friday and 
Saturday nights, March 26 and 27; 
with the singing competition start
ing at 8 oclock on Friday and the 
Swing commencing at 9 oclock on 
Saturday.
The judges decisions will be an
nounced Saturday afternoon so that 
only the winning team in each divi
sion will be asked to appear Satur
day night. It is not compulsory that 
every member of the winning team 
appear to receive the trophy as was 
the case in previous years, however, 
it is hoped the winners will appear 
enmasse.
Select Queen
LT. ROBERT CUMMINGS, 40 
. . . left Hollywood for Army . . .
has been announced by Chuck 
Jones, chairman of the Spring CarContinued on page 6

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 16, 1943
S'dUt&vi A'uncJtcuA. ----------------------------------------------
Much Ado About Nothing
This week has seen quite a tempest in a teapot. Said tempest is the re
sult of the outraged protests of the sororities to the ODKs plans for Sing 
and Swing. For various and sundry reasons the sororities object to the 
ODKs plan to hold the Sing and Swing on two nightsSing on Friday and 
Swing on Saturday. Not content with objecting to the two night affair, they 
have decided to object to most everything about the event.
The Arguments
We have attempted to determine exactly what these arguments are, 
and to clarify the situation for readers. The sororities maintain: First, 
ODKs say that the Sing and Swing is too long, so they make it twice as 
long by holding it two nights instead of one. Second, metal cups and tropphies are hard to procure, so they decide to give six cups instead of the 
usual two. Third, a number of contestants will be unable to participate 
because of their parts in the Shakespearian production on Friday night 
(Mu Alpha Gamma lost their entire team to Romeo and Juliet). Fourth, 
it is necessary for the girls to come to the dance Saturday night so that the 
winners may sing, and the girls that dont have dates for the dance will 
have to go stag. Fifth, nobody will go to the Sing just to listen to the sing
ing competition.
The Rebuttal
ODKs reply to these arguments follows. First, the complaint was 
that Sing and Swing was too long for a single night. Formerly the event 
began at 6:30 and there was very little time for dancing after the singing. 
Under the new plan the Sing will begin at a time when the audience will 
be able to eat dinner before attending the event. Then on Saturday night 
there will be a full dance to the music of a better orchestra than is usually 
obtained. Regarding the second point, there are no cups being made at 
present, but the resourceful ODKs knew a jeweler that had enough on 
hand to solve this problem.
Third, it is unfortunate that the Shakespearian play is the same night 
as the Swing, but since an Evening School dance is scheduled in Thistle 
Hall Saturday night it would be necessary to clean the gym floor for the 
dance after the singing is overa next-to-impossible task. Fourth, the 
winning womens teams will be notified about noon on Saturday and it is 
only necessary for them to come to the dance at intermission in time to 
sing. Fifth, ODK hopes that it is silly to think that there will be no attend
ance at the Sing.
In addition, ODK points out that this year there is no extra charge for 
the dance. As Bob Riesacher says, Just because we were once called 
Dragons, why must they think that were making a fortune on this event? 
With a high-priced band were lucky if we make ends meet.
To this battle of words we can only add that we hope that the sorori
ties wont be little and drop out of the competition. In spite of a certain 
amount of bungling, Sing and Swing shows promise of developing into the 
big event that it is on other campuses.
Letter To The Editor
It is the policy of the TARTAN to print all letters from the students 
to the editor. While we feel that the Scotties improvement is due, not to 
any effort on our part, but to Bob Riesachers hard and diligent work, we 
print the following letter in full.
To the Editor of the Tartan:
The Scottie is far from perfection, but the enthusiasm and spirit the 
staff has recently shown deserves commendation. Their efforts in trying to 
make each months edition better than the last has caused everyone to 
notice what appears to be a revival of interest. This is largely due, I think, 
to the efforts of you and your staff.
The Tartan has again assumed the role of the alarm clock, this time 
to wake the lethargic Scotch and Soda. I sincerely hope you can ring loud 
enough, for, you see, I have a very special interest in the traditions of my 
alma mater. I am only a freshman, but this will be my last year here (the 
army, you know.) When I leave, I want to carry with me every bit of col
lege that I can.
I therefore add my plea to what you have said, hoping that I may yet 
see one of the hits for which the Scotch and Soda is known.
________________________________________ A. S.
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the 
staff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not 
to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh, Pa.
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2*00 PHONE SCHENLEY 4557
MNMNTIO POM NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative 
420 Madison Ave. New TheCa N.Y.
Bostom  Los Angeles  San Francisco
After Office Hours Call
Editor-in-Chief............................SC. 9887
Business Manager.......................BR. 4759
Entered a* eeona-elass mailer In the Pittsburgh Post Office under the Act of March 3, 1870. Published weekly during school year, except holidays and examination periods.Subscription Price *1.10 per year.
Editor-in-Chief...........................................................................................Melvin H. Snyder, Jr.
Business Manager............................................................................................... Wilbur Thomas
Managing Editor....................................................................................................... Jeanne King
Staff Photographer............................................................................................................Lew Klein
EDITORIAL BOARD: Helena Aronson, Walt Darby, Gerry Edelson, E. Goldstein,
T. J. Harmany, Elaine Levin, Dave Neuss, Louisa Saul.
Sports Staff: Don French, Editor; Ashe Etkes, John Lindberg, Bill Beamer Stu Lee, 
Bill Ferguson.
Business Staff *............................Martha Wagman, Lee Greenwald, Lawrence Schutzer
After a search that took me to 
Student Council Office, the PiKA 
house, the Scottie Office, and to his 
home in Millvale, I finally located 
Bob Reisacher, Arch 43, over in the 
gym about 7 A. M. Sunday morning. 
Since he is Councils committee on 
permanent decorations, he was 
there supervising the wreckage of 
the Guild Dance. He hung up a 
heavy coil of rope and wire, sat 
down on a pile of lumber and gave 
a weary sigh when I opened the in
terview by asking him about his 
pet grieve. He leered at me only 
as a man can who has been on cam
pus for five years, has been an O. D. 
K, as well as editor of Scottie, pres
ident of his house, and more other 
activities than you can count on 
your hands with your toes thrown 
in. I think I understood what he 
meant.
He told me that he also hates hav
ing people tell him, when he tries 
to sell them Scottie, that Ive seen 
someone elses, Ill read my room
mates, or My cousin buys it! Hed 
rather they just said NO. Things 
must be in pretty bad shape when 
the editor of the Scottie not only 
has to put up with the trials and 
tribulations of his office, but has to 
peddle his paper too.
One of Bobs greatest interests is
O. D. K. He still remembers that 
societys activities at the end of last 
semesterask him! He is really 
sincere when he says that O. D. K.
MR. ROBERT REISACHER
... he feels pretty old . . . 
suffers from a Dragon Society hang
over. He looks forward to the day 
when O. D. K. will rank with Tau 
Beti Pi as one of the schools top 
honoraries.
You know, he said, after we had 
been talking about the many offices 
he has held, it seems that when a 
fellow is about to leave Tech he al
ways get a Simon-pure feeling that 
all of his efforts are for the glory 
of old Carnegie Tech. I hope peo
ple wont laugh, but Ive begun to 
feel that way these last few weeks. 
In Hoc Signis Vinces!
Critics Corner - - "ROMEO AND JULIET
We have been looking forward to 
Romeo and Juliet for some time, 
and, while we were disappointed in 
some respects, it proved an enjoy
able and interesting experience. 
Shakespeare, never an easy project 
for professional actors, must appear 
almost insurmountable to students, 
and credit is due them for the man
ner in which they presented the ab
stract lines, and for turning poetry 
and heavy prose into concrete con
versation. To take a plot of heroic 
proportions and present it to an 
audience raised on ONeill and Sher
wood; to take the broad, sweeping 
lines of a world-famous tragedy and 
make them live; these are the prob
lems confronting the director who 
chooses Shakespeare. Mr. Payne al
most succeeded in this, but we found 
it difficult to believe that the prob
lems of the two young lovers were 
as shattering as the author would 
have liked. That imperceptible con
tact between audience and stage, 
that thing which makes the actors 
live, was missing.
Aside from the technical slips, the 
production was one of the most fin
ished we have seen at Tech. The 
adaptation of the Elizabethan stage, 
while it must have presented some 
obstacle to the vision of those sit
ting in the side section, offered the 
simplest solution to the many rapid 
scene changes which the play de
mands. Indeed, it is difficult to see 
how it could have been produced 
any other way on our stage. The cos
tumes, unusually colorful, were ad
mirably displayed against the nat~
ural set, and added much to the 
character of the production.
The two leading characters are to 
be especially commended on the 
way they handled their scenes to
gether. Such lengthy dialogues are 
apt to become a bit wearisome, but 
Miss Vlaskamp and Mr. Meyers act
ed with laudable restraint and ex
cellent taste. Juliet was exception
ally good in the balcony scene, in 
which she came closest to the ex
treme youthfulness of the part. Mr. 
Schmitts Friar was admirably done, 
and the scene between him and 
Romeo, in which the latter was told 
of his banishment, was the most pol
ished in the play. Mr. Roses Capulet, excepting a few digressions in
to comedy, was very well done, 
an excellent picture of a loving, 
but easily angered father. Mercutio had all the debonair selfconfidence expected of him, but 
it is regrettable that his Queen 
Mab speech was so indistnict. 
Miss Triers interpretation of the 
nurse was well conceived, but the 
picture was a litle too grostesque, a 
little too puppet-like. Mr. Parks 
Paris was weak; it is difficult to see 
him as a dashing young count. Out
standing as a slow but willing ser
vant was Mr. Motyl. The Prince, 
who had little to do but chastise the 
feuding families, was a credit to the 
costumiere.
Yes, the acting was of an unusual
ly high calibre, but they remained 
a lovely picture; something to 
watch, but nothing to stir the audi
ence. J. B,

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MARCH 16,1943THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
ACROSS THE CUT
By Marty Gross
Natural Resources was the topic under consideration in Social Rela
tions one fine 8:30. Mr. Fetke, our erstwhile instructor, had just con
cluded classifying resources into metallic and non-metallic. His request 
for an explanation of how a metal can be recognized, was answered by a 
lost sheep among an otherwise sound-sleeping audience. Well, our stu
dent stammered, You can tell a metal by its metallic properties. Such as 
the doubting instructor posed. Well, first of all its ductible, its mal
leable, anda light shining across the pupils eyesIt has a lusta beau
tiful shining lust.
Shakespeare, 43
The command was dress-right-dress, then a gruff ready-front. A 
squad of R. O. T. C. boys drilling in front of Administration Hall were be
ing severely inspected. The Cadet Officer approached a long-haired dramat 
who came to attention clicking his heelstrue military style. Private, you 
need a haircut, the cadet officer barked. Shakespearethe frosh dramat 
who was to be a spear carrier in Romeo and Juliet offered in the way 
of explanation. The huffed cadet officer approached the platoon sergeant 
loudly demandingShakespeareOne demerit.
Who Done It?
In mechanical engineer seminar, some conscientious member of the 
student body is listening dutifully when he feels something hit him behind 
the ear and keep hitting for a second or two. Then he realizes his ear is 
wet. Puzzle: where does water come from in the dull, dry air of a sem
inar? Maybe its a gremlin. But investigations now discloses that the 
occurence is neither occult nor due to gremlinsunless one classifies grem
lins under the Homo Sapiens. The cause of the nuisance is we discover, 
the HHH-MEthose sharp Henderson Hall Hydro-Mechanical Engineers.
Junior Varsity Victory
The Junior Varsity Basketball Squad filed into a packed Carnegie Inn 
silently. Roving eyes spotted the attractive waitress, Dorothy. Eight 
wolves attempted to make one girl during their supper hour. Success was 
imminent as their eye was gracefully returned. Supper finished, they 
strode to the door en masseassumed the position of a gay nineties 
quartette and serenaded Dorothy to the tune of Good Night Mabel 
Sorry to see you go.
Unusual ElectioneeringThe drawing card was the raffling of two $25 War Bonds; the affair 
the Mens Dorm Council Dance. As the evenings festivities drew to a 
closs, Brad Hunt, the musicmaker for the evening, rose to the podium to 
draw the winning number out of a crammed fishbowl. He handed the se
lected number to Chuck Jones who commenced to read it. Boss Hall, 
Elections for 1943for President, he uttered to an astonished audience. 
The shocked Mr. Jones threw the ballot away and proceeded to draw the 
correct number. Boss Hall is still awaiting its Bond.
Former Student Now 
Lieutenant In WAACS
Lillian Dnrsey, Drama 41, is now 
Lieutenant Dorsey of the WAACS. 
She has just completed an intensive 
training course in special services 
sponsored by the government and 
has received her bars. Lieutenant 
Dorsey was formerly assistant in 
charge of special services at Day
tona Beach, Florida, where she was 
responsible for twenty recreational 
centers for the WAACS.
While at Carnegie Tech, Miss 
Dorsey majored in production and 
was featured in such Drama Depart
ment plays as Family Portrait 
and Craigs Wife. Besides her avid 
interest in scenery design, Lillian 
was active in numerous extra-cur
ricular activities. Among her ac
complishments was membership in 
the Cwens, Student Council, and 
Womens Guild.
--------ON THE RECORD---------
Today
12:30, Room 157, Arts, Mr. Charles 
A. H. Pearson will present the fol
lowing phonograph program:
Symphony in D-minor........Franck
Thursday 
12:30, Room 157, Arts, Dr. Frederick 
Dorian will be in charge of the fol
lowing program:
Classical Chamber Music..............
Council Minutes
The meeting was called to order at 7:10 
p. m., March 9, 1943.
Absent: Messrs. Goldberger, Heller,
and Dolan.
COMMITTEE REPORTS 
Budget
Mr. Sihewitz moved that the budget 
from the O. D. K. Society for Sing and 
Swing be approved.
Motion carried.
Mr. Shewitz moved that in case the S. 
W. A. C. cannot get credit from (the or
ganization from which they buy their 
war stamp corsages, and they ask Council 
for the money, that authority be given 
to the Budget Committee to give them an 
exitra $25, for use only over the week
end of March 12. It must be returned by 
Monday, March 15.
Motion carried.
OLD BUSINESS
Mr. Boyce moved that, on the request 
of Mr. Murphy, Mr. Boyce be designated 
to collect the $75 which was appropriated 
to the S. W. A. C. immediately following 
Spring Carnival.
Motion carried.
Adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
ELIZABETH BEALL,
Secretary.
Glee Clubs Give 
Combined Concert
The Mens and Womens Glee 
Clubs, upholding the tradition of 
many years, will present their an
nual combined formal concert on 
Wednesday evening, March 31, in 
the Exhibition Room of Fine Arts 
Building. Every year at this time * 
the glee clubs, which are composed 
of members of almost every depart
ment on campus, unite to present a 
concert for students, faculty, and 
friends. The program will be high
lighted by the singing of one num
ber by the two clubs, after each 
group has sung its own selections.
Tickets for the concert, which are 
free of charge, may be secured from 
members of the Glee Clubs. The 
musical will be under the direction 
of Mrs. Harriet Kurtz, director of 
the Womans Glee Club, and Pro
fessor Karl Malcherek, director of 
the Mens Glee Club. Jacqueline 
Sandlin, M43 and Ed Miller, M45 
will be student directors.
The officers for the Womens Glee 
Club this year are Dorothy Fisher,
H. Ec. 43, Manager, Louise Johnson, 
Home Ec. 44, Assistant Manager, 
Dorothy Schadel, H. Ec. 44, Secre
tary, Ruth Templeton, H. Ec. 44 and 
Helen Sacco, Sec. 45, Librarians. 
The Mens Glee Club officers are 
Jess Hill, E. E. 44, Manager, Kempton Roll, Met. 45, Secretary, and 
Dick Seckinger, M. 45, Librarian.
More Women Urged 
To Help The Red Cross 
Meet Bandage Quota
Mrs. Wallace DaSef, Chairman of 
the Surgical Dressing department, 
Pittsburgh Chapter, American Red 
Cross issues an urgent appeal for 
women to make surgical dressings 
for use by the armed forces of the 
United States on the far flung fields 
of this global war. Two places are 
convenient to most residents of 
Pittsburgh, the sixth floor of Joseph 
Hornes at Penn Avenue and Stanwix Street, for women close to 
downtown Pittsburgh, and residents 
of East Liberty may go to the Red 
Cross Headquarters at 401 North 
Highland Avenue. Hours at both 
these stations are from 10:00 a. m. 
to 3:30 p. m. on Mondays through 
Fridays and at Joseph Hornes on 
Saturday from 9:30 a. m. to 3:30 p. 
m. The East Liberty Headquarters 
will be open on Monday evenings 
from 7:00 p. m. to 9:00 p. m. begin
ning March 8th.
Surgical Dressings are an import
ant part of every medical unit. 
Where our boys go, there go surgical 
dressings to keep their wounds 
clean. The quotas of the various 
Red Cross Chapters throughout the 
country are established by the 
Army and Navy. During 1942, 264,- 
993 Surgical Dressings were made 
by the Pittsburgh Chapter alone.
Surgical Dressing workers are re
quired to wear white Hoover aprons 
or uniforms over their street dresses 
and are urged to devote as much 
time as possible to this vital work 
until this quota is met.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY Of THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY, PITTSBURGH, PA.

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 16, 1943
Blue Bells andThistles
(Walter Winchell has his orchids 
and scallions; Coronet Magazine has 
its coronets and thorns; and now the 
TARTAN has its bluebells and this
tles.)
BLUEBELLS TO:
Dorm Council for including in the 
expenses of their recent dance the 
cost of two war bonds. The girl with 
the lucky number war stamp cor
sage won a bond for her date, and 
one for herself. An admirable exam
ple for other organizations to follow 
. . . Agnes Aronson for her inde
fatigable effort to make the book 
drive at Carnegie a success. 1126 
books have been collected up to date 
. . . Bucky Shewitz for making 
those large, effective banners adver
tising the book drive. No student 
could fail to notice them hanging 
conspicuously from the rafters in 
the Beanery . . . Ambassador
Standley. Whether or not his re
cent commentary was diplomatic, 
we will let the experts decide. But 
at least the Russians know today 
that Russia is not in this war by 
herself.
THISTLES TO:
The student body in general for 
their reluctant support of the Car
negie War Activities. After many 
weeks, the war drives are first be
ginning to make a little headway 
. . . The well known Q advertise
ments which kept more than a few 
awake nights only to be let down 
when they learned  miserably let 
down . . . Claire Luce for her pessi
mistic parlance on the achievement 
of international highways. We think 
it is worth fighting for, and to 
Claire, we have but one thing to say 
No, baloney!
Nobaloney! ... To student grum
blers who are constantly complain
ing about the effect of gas ration
ing on their social activities. Petti
ness should have no place in our 
campus all-out drive to cooperate 
with the national rationing pro
gram.
Fort Pitt is the Place 
to Rent
TYPEWRITERS
ALL
MAKES
$3.00 per 
Month
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
WdA. Relic Ojf '18
Carnegie Tech Hut 
Served As Canteen
As the students look around the 
impressive quadrangle formed by 
Engineering Hall, Industries Hall, 
Machinery Hall, and the Fine Arts 
Building, they are all, no doubt, left 
wondering how a squat, one-story 
affair, with uncertain foundations, 
wooden walls, and a double battery 
of half-dormer windows in a dusky 
roof has remained as Carnegie 
Techs sole claim for the honors of 
having a library building on cam
pus. Naturally, they assume that 
there is a good story behind the 
reason for this condition; and there 
is.
The Hut, as the student body af
fectionately calls this nondescript 
building, is a relic of Carnegie 
Techs World War I days, when 
some 8,000 soldiers were trained in 
different phases of war technology 
on our then young campus. The 
building was donated by the Young 
Mens Christian Association, which 
built two buildings as canteens and 
recreational centers for the many 
soldiers living here and taking 
courses. After the war, one bulding 
was dismantled and the remaining 
one moved from its original loca
tionon the Cut near Forbes Street
 to its present location on the 
quadrangle. Here, it was turned in
to the main building for Techs li
brary system.
So it is that now, when the stu
dents go back and forth from a read
ing table to the librarians desk on 
some errand of literary nature, they 
are following in the footsteps of 
some World War I Doughboy who 
rose from a game of chess and went 
to get & coke or cigarettes at the 
canteen counter. Where laughter, 
dancing, and singing once ran riot, 
we now sit in strained silence, 
drinking in the knowledge stacked 
in racks that cover a dance floor, 
and blot out a once brilliantly il
luminated fireplace.
Dorm Girls! Play Bridge?
A large turnout is expected for 
the bridge party which is being 
sponsored by the Womens Dorm 
Council. A new committee, of which 
Libby See is chairman, is planning 
the affair. In addition to bridge, 
other games, refreshments, and 
prizes will guarantee a good time 
for all who attend. This is the first 
time that such a party has been at
tempted, and the committee de
serves special praise for its efforts. 
The committee is composed of fresh
man dorm presidents and vice- pres
idents of the upperclass dorms. The 
date is March 20 at the Union.
On the Campus .
YOUR CHOICE OF A BANK 
MAY BE THE BEGINNING 
OF A LONG AND USEFUL 
ASSOCIATION
MELLON 
NATIONAL BANK
MEMBER FEDERAI. DEPOSIT 
INSURANCE CORPORATION
On the Campus is conducted for the 
benefit of the entire Tech student body. 
If you have any notices for the column, 
just type them up and drop in Tech P. O. 
Box 409 by Friday noon of the week be
fore publication.
V-12 Notice!
Applications for the latest Naval 
Reserve Program, V-12, are now 
available in Mr. Wangemans Office, 
Bureau of Placements, Ind. 155-A. 
The time element is very limited, 
so you are advised to contact this 
office immediately.
Speech Experience Available 
The Speakers Bureau announces 
its group is still open to member
ship. Interested students should con
tact Professor Schrickel, Ind., as 
soon as possible.
Dr. Watkins Attends Army Conference
Dr. Watkins, Director of Margaret 
Morrison, is representing President 
Doherty at the Fourth Army Ori
entation Course, from March 15 to 
April 10, being conducted at the 
Command and General Staff 
School, Fort Leavenworth, Kansas. 
Honoraries Take Note!
Spring Carnival Chairman, Chuck 
Jones, requests all Honoraries to 
have their call lists in by April 
1st. This is absolutely necessary to 
enable the carnival preparations to 
keep on schedule.
Students Notice!
Spring Carnival Committees:
Publicity, Decoration, Call Day, Or
chestra, Tickets, Special Events, 
Chaperons.
Any student may select one or 
more of the above to work on; it is 
important, however, to make your 
choice immediately and return same 
to Chuck Jones by interschool mail. 
Special Attraction!
The Kiltie Bands annual spring 
concert, formerly given in the Car
negie Music Hall, will this year be 
given during Spring Carnival. Ac
cording to Chuck Jones, the con
cert, the coronation of thhe queen, 
and the Call Day exercises comprise 
the program for Saturday afternoon, 
April 10, of the festive weekend. 
Blood Donor Buttons
All those who contributed blood 
during the drive and did not receive 
buttons may obtain them from Mrs. 
King at the Information Desk, Reg
istrars Office.
Pi. D. E. Journalism Contest
All entries for the Pi Delta Ep
silon journalism contest must be 
submitted by this Friday, March 19. 
All editors of publications as well 
as the individual writers are invited 
to submit entries in this contest for 
the best feature, news story, or any 
type article published in a Carnegie 
Tech publication after September 
1, 1942. The award will be made at 
Spring Carnival.
OnttouhiCMUf. ScUmet, AncUUeciube '2.1
My copy editor suggested that I 
get a storj' on Bob Schmertz, an 
architecture professor who plays the 
banjo. I took the assignment with 
little enthusiasm. That afternoon, 
however, I wandered into the Arts 
Building and heard a senior, incul
cating the fine points of Carnegie 
Tech on the mind of a freshman, 
mention that Bob Schmertz was the 
composer of the song, Fight for 
the Glory of Carnegie. But it was 
not until I saw a lovely red-haired 
girl that I was really inspired to 
have an interview with Bob; for 
that girl, I am told, was Mildred 
Schmertz, his daughter, a freshman 
in the School of Architecture.
I found Professor Robert W. 
Schmertz, as Bob is officially known, 
in a huge drafting room on the 
architecture floor in the Arts Build
ing. He cordially led me to his of
fice, where I sat eagerly waiting for 
him to give me a synopsis of his 
career and a record of his accom
plishments. After much coaxing, I 
succeeded in learning that he is a 
native Pittsburgher, 44 years old and 
a 1921 graduate from the Carnegie 
School of Architecture. He married 
a schoolmate, the former Mildred 
Floyd.
While a student here, he played 
on the Carnegie Tri-State Champion 
Tennis team of 1920-1921 and the 
hockey team in 1920. After his grad
uation he obtained a position with
Henry Hornbostel, the architect 
commissioned to design the Gymna
sium and the Carnegie Inn build
ings. He also worked on the Uni
versity Club, Schenley Apartments, 
William Penn and Keystone Hotels.
THE
PLACE TO EAT
------in------
OAKLAND
-ISBILL'S LUNCH ROOM
3911 Forbes Street
MR. ROBERT SCHMERTZ
... he doubles on banjo . . .
He returned to Carnegie Tech in 
1927 to teach architectural design 
and, later, interior design.
Non-serious music, water color, 
and tennis are his hobbies. The nonserious music includes playing the 
banjo, the slap bass, and improvis
ing tune. The slap bass is his fav
orite instrument, he declares, be
cause it looks classier than the ban
jo. The fight song was written in 
1922, a year after his graduation.
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193

---------------------------------------------------

FIRS#: |fl
IN THE SERVICE
With men in the Coast Guard/ 
Army, Navy, and the Marines, 
the favorite cigarette is Camel, 
(Based on actual sales records in 
Canteens and Post Exchanges*)
B. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Winston-Salem, N. C.
FOR
RICH FLAVOR
AND EXTRA 
MILDNESS,
CAMELS ARE
FOUR-O!
ZONE
-where cigarettes are judged
The *T-ZONS*Taste and Throatis the proving ground 
for cigarettes. Only your taste and throat can decide j 
i which cigarette tastes best to you . . . and how it / 
\ affects your throat. For your taste and throat are / 
\ individual to you. Based on the experience of /
\ millions of smokers, we believe Camels / 
will suit your *T-ZONE" to a *T."
Prove it for yourself!
? IN THE COAST GUARD ?
they say:
SACK DRILL"fo,,,i,...
" PISH "- for torpedo
"FOUR-O"  for very good, or tops 
"CAMEL"  for the favorite cigarette
with men in the Coast Guard
TUESDAY, MARCH 16,1943 __________________ THE CARNEGIE TARAN
/I JleMesi fynam
At last Thursdays meeting of the Student Conference Committee the 
question arose as to when the Juniors in R. O. T. C. would be ordered to 
camp. It was suggested that if they were to be called immediately at the 
end of the semester, it might be possible to advance or eliminate the final 
exams so that those students could spend Easter at home before leaving 
for camp. President Doherty stated that he would attempt to determine 
whether the Army had a set policy in regard to the calling up of the En
listed Reserves. The following letter, received yesterday, contains his 
findings.
Mr. Melvin Snyder, Chairman
Student Conference Committee -
Carnegie Institute of Technology 
Dear Melvin:
At the meeting last evening the question arose as to how long the 
period would be between the end of the semester and the time when the 
members of the ROTC and Enlisted Reserve Corps would be called to camp. 
The answer is definite and I should have remembered it at the time. I quote 
below from Memorandum No. W 150-1-43 from The Adjutant Generals 
Office entitled Call to Active Duty of Students Enlisted in the Enlisted Re
serve Corps, Unassigned Group:
3. Normally, Enlisted Reserve Corps students, unassigned 
group, will be ordered to active duty fourteen days after the 
completion of the first academic quarter, term, or semester 
terminating after December 31, 1942, or as soon thereafter as 
practicable with due regard to the avoidance of congestion in 
reception center. Each reservist ordered to active duty under 
this directive will be dispatched, after processing at a recep
tion center, to a replacement training center of the Services 
of Supply or Army Ground Forces as part of current quotas.
I assume you will wish to put this notice in THE TARTAN.
Sincerely yours,
ROBERT E. DOHERTY.
Cum Grano Salis
This semester a Students  War 
Activities Committee was formed 
with the purpose of furthering the 
war effort at Carnegie Tech. The 
TARTAN wanted to know just what 
were the feelings of the faculty and 
students toward the group. Follow
ing are a few informal opinions.
Mrs. Yon, Dean of Women
Of course we should all be glad 
to do all we can to help the war ef
fort, and I believe this semester we 
are doing much more than we did 
before. This may be due to the fact 
that the war is much closer to us. 
However, I think that as long as Dr. 
Chworowsky is chairman of the De
fense Committee, to eliminate du
plication on campus, all organiza
tions promoting activities to aid the 
war effort should clear through his 
office.
Jean Foster, P&D, 43
I have followed the war effort 
publicity in the TARTAN, but I 
should like to see more action. The 
S. W. A. C. is an absolutely neces
sary idea, for so far Techs record is 
shameful. In my opinion, the W. A. 
C. did not do so well. Tech students 
are conscious of the war, but feel 
that school demands all their time.
Lavetta Hammond, D 46, makes her 
contribution to the Carnegie Tech book 
drive while colleague Rachel Hanson, also 
D 46, supervises. The book drive was 
sponsored by the SWACS.
Professor Mason, Dept of 
Psychology & Education 
The efforts of the Committee 
seem to be bearing fruit. Aside from 
the actual immediate contributions, 
there is certainly a value in the ef
fect on the participating students. 
As with most other activities, how
ever, there is great danger of the 
entire burden of work falling upon 
the shoulders of a few.

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 16, 1943
Campus Candids
Dick Blakinger, business manager 
for the Cornellian, Cornell College, 
Mount Vernon, Iowa, was meeting 
a University of Minnesota wrest
ling opponent in Minneapolis when 
he learned of his call to active duty 
in the Army Air Corps Enlisted Re
serve. Blakinger wired Bill Slother, 
Editor: I QUIT. SUGGEST YOU 
GET A WOMAN OR ABOUT A 
NINE YEAR-OLD BOY FOR 
YOUR NEXT BUSINESS MANA
GER!
oOo
The first college professor ever 
signed to a movie acting contract, 
Don Curtis, has little opportunity to 
show his professional perfection in 
Metro - Goldwn - Mayers Salute to 
the Marines. Curtis plays a hard
bitten Marine lieutenant, and the 
script calls for a large number of 
Aints, dese, dems, and dose.
Having taught English and litera
ture at Northwestern and Duquesne 
universities, Curtis is wondering 
what his former students will think 
when they see  and hear  his 
screen debut. Hes especially con
cerned about those he flunked in 
English!
Bob Cummings Chooses
Continued from page 1 
nival Committee. On Friday night 
there will be a musical review fol
lowed by fraternity -and dormitory 
house parties. Saturday afternoon 
will feature novelty races, a band 
concert, the coronation of the Cam
pus Beauty Queen, Call Day, and 
the regular carnival events includ
ing booths, side shows, and street 
dancing. The feature dance will take 
place in the Mens Gym Saturday 
night.
The judge, Lt. Robert Cummings, 
is at present stationed at Van Niis, 
California, following a military 
career as successful as his former 
movie career.
There now, your second week-end 
in April is accounted for. Just get 
a date and youre all set!
Let's go to
ISALY'S
MILK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM CONES
KLOHDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Allies
Tech Bowlers Win Two 
At Annual Festival
The meet was one of the many 
athletic contests and exhibitions put 
on during Arsenal Recreation Cen
ters annual sports festival.
Only four matches were staged, 
due to Arsenal having an incom
plete team. Of them, Tech lost one 
by a pin in the third bout, and the 
other by a forfeit made necessary 
by an injury. The other two were 
both won by Tech; one by a decision 
and the other by a pin in both the 
second and third bouts.
There will be a return meet Fri
day evening at 8:00, March 10, in 
Thistle Hall. Every one is welcome 
to watch.
WeightTechArsenalClassS. West ................0Campbell (Fall). 5125___R. Trautman (Fall)5Givens ................ 0135___0Enricho (For.).. 5145___R. Jaffe..................5155___J. Pantell ..............5165___W. Ebert (Decision)3175....__
18Total................10
Wilkinsburg High Bows 
To Carnegie Foilmen
Last Saturday Carnegie Techs 
Fencing team overwhelmed Wilk
insburg High Schools five, winning
22 bouts and dropping only three. 
The match was a round robin, each 
man fencing every man on the op
posing team. Howard Engel, John 
Rapport succeeded in taking all 
their while Guthrie, Rosenberg and 
while Guthrie, Rosenberg and 
Smith each dropped one of their 
five bouts. A return match is being 
scheduled.
Under Mr. Harskys able super
vision the team has shown great im
provement since last year when 
they suffered a minor defeat at the 
hands of Wilkinsburg. Below are 
the following men on the Tech and 
Wilkinsburg Fencing Teams:
TechWilkinsburg
EngleHarbaugh
GuthrieLucas
RosenbergBorneman
RapoportBoli
SmithBaylor
Attention All Swimmers
Intramural swimming is schedul
ed to start Monday, March 22, and 
all entries must be in by 5:00 p. m. 
Thursday, March 18. Those who 
have been swimming for gym credit 
must turn in four practice hours but 
all other need six hours. Everyone 
is eligible except the men who have 
earned varsity letters or numerals 
during the current school year. 
Dont miss out because of late en
tries or insufficient practice.
Furnished Room
15 Minutes Walk From Campus. 
Pleasant surroundings in large airy 
room. Suitable for one or two. 
Call SChenley 1846.
WHY WALK A MILE
25 Feet to Barber Shop and Beauty Parlor. Courteous Service.
Campus Barber and Beauty Shop
Corner Margaret Morrison and Forbes Streets MAyflower 3921
War Bonds Are Prizes 
For Oration Finalists
Mr. Parshall, Ind. 229-G, in charge 
of the Jefferson oratorical contest on 
the Tech campus, is still taking ap
plications from aspiring contestants.
Each contestants is to give a sixminute speech on some phase of Jef
fersons life.
All the Pittsburgh finalists will be 
awarded War Bond prizes ranging 
from $25 to $250. The national win
ner will be presented with a $1,000 
War Bond and a free trip to Wash
ing, D. C. on April 13, the anniver
sary of the great statesmans birth.
Students who want more informa
tion or who wish to enter the con
test should report to Mr. Parshall 
immediately, as the preliminary 
trials to select Carnegie Techs rep
resentative will be held Thursday, 
1:30 in Ind. 235-A and the college 
finals will be held in Stephen Foster 
Memorial Hall on March 30 at 8:00 
P. M.
QalatarI Se&aeta.
At the beginning of the semester 
the advanced corps of the R. O. T. C. 
was divided into two groups, and 
half were commissioned as cadet 
officers, the other half were made 
non-commissioned officers. Jim Rice 
was made Cadet Colonel, and Jerry 
Apt was made Lieutenant Colonel. 
Effective February 27, when all 
non-coms were given cadet commis
sions and vice versa, R. E. Christian 
was made Cadet Colonel, and A. R. 
Marbus was made Cadet Lt. Colonel.
The officers of the Military De
part Staff are at present Colonel F. 
T. Bass of the Engineering Corps, 
Captain J. H. Layton Jr. of the Sig
nal Corps, and Captain W. K. Shaf
fer of the Engineering Corps. The 
enlisted men are Staff Sergeants R. 
C. Sommer, Dennis D. Dobbs; Ser
geants Robert W. Butler, Thomas J. 
Oister, Nunzio J. Sciacca, Edwin L. 
McCartney; and Corporal John R. 
Burgess.
Replacing Miss Florence Williams 
as Secretary to the Military Depart
ment is Miss Katherine Shoemaker.
IT has been estimated that 63,000 telephone calls are 
necessary in the building of one 10,000-ton cargo ship. 
And America is sending these vessels down the ways by 
the hundreds.
We cannot build additional facilities because materials 
for telephone equipment are going into war weapons. 
Yet today the men and women of the Bell System are 
handling more telephone calls than ever before about 
90 million conversations a day. Its an important wartime 
job. It will continue to be done well.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MARCH 16, 1943THE CARNEGIE TARTAN7
THIS YEARS BASKETBALL SQUAD
First row, left to rightCowswell, Kelly, Culbertson, Sherman, Harry Smith. 
Second rowMeyer, March, Showman, Brinn, DeBortoli.
Third rowHannum, Cantini, Nelesen, Luther, Pakula, Ferrell.
Tech Basketballers Finish Poor 
Season Highlighted By Near Wins
Strike one, strike two, strike 
thrNo, the bat is swung, its a ter
rific drive, looks like a homer. No, 
the ball hit the top of the screen, 
darn near, the runner is rounding 
first on his way to second, here 
comes the ball from the outer gar
den, looks like hes trying for the 
hot corner, its going to be a photo 
finish. The runner is trapped, yes, 
he was tagged out. Fans, give them 
a 2 bagger in your score book. His 
neck looks red even up here, fans, as 
he makes his long trail to the dugout.
Well, there you are. The proceed
ing paragraph may well summarize 
what happened to our cagers this 
season. The team started out with 
the city knowall scribes predict
ing a sad if not a fair campaign 
(two strikes). Fooling all, the team 
trimmed a favored Waynesburg 
quintet 58-53 in their opener (long 
drive). It was one of the best games 
battled out at the Skibo gym this 
season. The Tartans were led by 
sharpshooting George Marck who 
scored 19 points by virtue of 9 field 
goals and a lone foul.
They engaged the tall Scientists 
from Case on the home board next. 
The final score read 52-50, Case 
(missed homer). Marck again led 
scoring with 15 points but credit 
goes to center George (call me 
Scrapper) Meyer who again proved 
the most aggressive player as time 
and time again he managed to get 
the ball from his taller foes.
Two heartbreakers followed the 
Christmas vacation against the 
strongest foes on our schedule.
INFORMAL DANCING
Every FRIDAY and 
SATURDAY NIGHT 
Billy Hinds Music 
$1 per person (plus tax)
See us about your next party
HOTEL SCHENLEY
For Victory
Bowl for Health 
and Enjoyment
.COMP/770,
University Recreation
New Alleys and 
Latest Equipment
On Craig Off Forbes
SKIBO SPORTLIGHT
Softball Competition Out 
By Don French, Sports Editor.......
Intramural Program:
Mr. Eyman reports that the annual Intramural Softball round robin 
will have to b2 postponed this year due to second semester exams commenc
ing April 22. However, individual softball contests between the various or
ganizations on campus will be. encouraged. The intramural board decided 
against an elimination contest whereby one defeat would drop a team from 
further competition.
Backshots:
Lieutenant Dave Boyd, who was active in athletics in 1934, 35 and 36, 
was a campus visitor last week. He is at present stationed at the Naval 
Academy, Annapolis, Md., and was promoted bn March 1 to Lieutenant 
Senior Grade. Lieutenant Boyd was a center on the football team and also 
boxed in the heavyweight division when Carnegie supported that sport as 
part of its intercollegiate program.
Another former football player-boxer has also entered the service, it 
was learned last week. Purl J. Anderson, star guard on the elevens of 1923 
24 and 25, is now a lieutenant in the Army Air Corps, and is stationed 
at the Wayne County Air Post, Komulus, Michigan. Anderson was one of 
the best boxers in the district during his college days, and represented 
Pittsburgh in inter-city amateur bouts many times in the 165 pound class.
Improving:
Mr. Frank Moses, acting head of the department of Physical Education, 
unfortunately was hit by a basketball over two weeks ago, the result being 
a hernia. He was operated on last Saturday and is expected back soon.
Pitts Panthers and then the Nittany Lions from State College came, 
and unfortunately conquered, the 
former by a 44-38 count, and the 
latter 35-33 count. Both contests 
were heartstoppers as Coach Maxie 
tried his best to stop the ever tick
ing clock in an eleventh hour at
tempt to salvage victors. Experi
ence and skill proved master in both 
cases as our inexperienced squad 
couldnt control the ball during the 
fading seconds. As in other games, 
height proved the deciding factor 
due to the control of both back
boards. Hopes again rose as Tech 
beat a weak St. Vincents team at Latrobe, Pa., 55-34. The Tartans res
cued their pinnacle and trimmed a 
much favored Westminster five to 
the tune of 46-38. Hugh Smith, sub
bing for ailing George Marck, seem
ed to inspire the whole team, and 
with Captain Dave Brinn hit the in
vaders where it hurts most, in the 
loss column. The whole team play
ed great ball and gave those attend
ing a great kick.
The 53-30 drubbing followed, in 
turn followed by 6 straight reverses. 
Tech lost to Pitt, Geneva, West
minster, W&J, Penn State, -and 
Geneva again in that order to bring 
a poor season to a close (long trail 
to dugout).
Delts Still Dominate 
Intramural Bowling
Bowling ran true to form last 
week as the strong teams continued 
to win and consistent losers pulled 
no surprising upsets. The Citcom B 
team still leads League I with 14 
wins and 1 loss, and Beta Sigma Rho 
is only one game behind. The Delta 
Tau Delta team is so far ahead of 
the remainder of League II with a 
perfect record of 18 wins in 18 
games that the second place bat
tle between Citcom A and Delta 
Upsilon is more interesting. In 
League II last week Kappa Sigma 
took three straight from Boss Hall; 
Beta Sigma Rho won three from the 
Alpha Tau Omega team; Citcom B 
won three from McGill; and Beta 
Theta Pi took two out of three from 
the Tau Delts. In League II the Delt 
Power crushed SAE three to zero, 
and Citcom A took a like number 
from Scobell. The Phi Kaps won 2 
and lost 1 with the DUs, and Theta 
Xi won 2 out of 3 from Sigma Nu.
Citcom Teams and McGill 
Lead Volleyball Leagues
Citcom A, Citcom B, and Mc
Gill Hall are still undefeated and 
riding high on their winng streaks. 
In League I competition last week, 
Citcom A humbled the D. U.s, 
winning the last game with a twopoint margin, and McGill rolled 
over Welch Hall by a 2-0 count. Cit
com B,, League II leaders, stayed 
abreast of them by beating the A. 
T. O. sextet 2-0, and thereby 
strengthened their hold on first 
place. The question of their oppo
nents for the championship hinges 
on the outcome of the coming Cit
com A-McGill match.
Although they are not at the top, 
the Pika. A.s were the hotest team 
in League II last week, beating both 
Scobell and the Kappa Sigs 2-1. Lat
er the Kappa Sigs came back to top
ple the Tau Delts by the same count. 
In the only other league contest, the 
Phi Kaps forfeited to the Betas.
Only two other League II games 
were played; the D. U.s trounced 
the Delts, and the S. A. E.s beat 
Beta Sigma Rho, both by 2-0 scores.
Saturday, March 20 From 9 til 1
Scabbard & Blade
. . . presents . . .MILITARY SW
 with BRAD HUNT
$2.20 Per Couple Favors

---------------------------------------------------

8THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 16, 1943ht dTarnecjie plaid
Carnegie Union Scene For 
Shamrock Social Sat. Mar. 20
The St. Patricks Day Party to be 
held Saturday, March 20th at the 
Carnegie Union is going to be one 
of the outstanding events of the so
cial year.
A great deal of time has been 
spent by the social committee in 
preparing this affair and nothing 
was left undone to make this party 
the best yet. Arrangements have 
been made to present the patrons 
with juke box dancing, ping-pong, 
cards, roulette, bingo, refreshments, 
novelty features and prizes.
The admission if fifty-five cents 
per person, payable at the door. All 
student  day, night or defense  
at Carnegie Tech may attend and 
their friends will be welcome.
The Carnegie Union is at 5075 
Forbes Street near Beeler Street in
tersection right at the street car 
stop, and the stop for Thistle Hall 
is only the next one further out on 
Forbes Street, so even with re
stricted transportation facilities it is 
possible for everyone to come.
Mud.
N. E. Martello
With all this talk about oil going 
around have you ever stopped to 
think that if it werent for good old 
mud we wouldnt be able to get 
the. crude out of the ground.-^ -
In any drilling operation, mud is 
pumped into the center of the drill 
stem, a series of connected pipes to 
which a drilling bit is attached. 
Since the mud is under pressure, it 
forces its way down the drill stem, 
comes out through the center of 
the bit, and then rises in the annulus 
between the bore hole and drill 
stem. On reaching the surface is di
rected to the pit prior to its return 
again to the hole.
Let us now explore the reason 
for using mud. When the bit grinds 
up rocks, etc., in making the hole, 
some means is needed to remove 
these cuttings from the hole. This is 
most easily accomplished by the cir
culating drilling mud. Also, while 
passing around the bit, mud acts as 
a lubricant and coolant, permitting 
longer drilling with the bit before 
changes for sharpening are neces
sary.
The third reason for using mud 
is because of its plastering effect on 
the walls of the hole. While passing 
up the hole, the mud forms a sheath 
around it which seals the bore from 
the earth formation. In other words 
the mud, in a sense, acts as a cas
ing, and it has been found recently 
that by proper mud control, several 
tons of steel casing can be eliminat
ed per well. Last, and by no means 
least, is the necessity for holding 
back high gas pressures which are 
often encountered in drilling. By 
adding weighting agents like bary
tes, sufficient mud head can be ob
tained so that blowouts can be pre
vented. Thus, we can see how essen
tial mud is in obtaining the oil 
which keeps both industry and our 
fighting men at top peformance.
Louis Miller Named 
Secretary-Treas. of 
College of Industries
Lou Miller, Vice President of Sig
ma Delta Phi, has recently become a 
very active and popular man on the 
campus. He is a member of Nu Sig
ma Alpha and Secretary-Treasurer 
of Industries.
A stimulating and widely varied
-------mi. LOUIS MILLER
job as an operating metallurgist is 
his day-time occupation. Altogeth
er different from the ordinary con
ception of metallurgy, his work con
cerns cast iron and non-ferrous met
als rather than the steelmaking pro
cess usually connected with metal
lurgy. Linked up with his work are 
the courses he is taking at Tech, in 
foundry. This is his fourth year in 
Night School and his enthusiasm for 
the place has increased yearly.
Those now impossible camping 
trips, with the emphasis on fishing, 
used to be his main relaxation, but 
he also likes to swim and to dance. 
He is a lover of music and is an ac
complished guitar player, Spanish 
music and rhumbas being his favor
ite. He is very enthusiastic about 
Tech dances and the parties ,that 
have recently been held and com
mends highly the friendly atmo
sphere at these affairs.
Shakesperian Romance 
Continues To March 27th
The Little Theatre players of the 
College of Fine Arts will present 
Shakespeares immortal Romeo 
and Juliet, from Saturday, March 
13th through Saturday, March 27th.
The presentation of a Shakespear
ian drama has become an annual 
event by this group and this year 
Romeo and Juliet is produced un
der the able direction of B. Iden 
Payne, a former drama professor of 
the College of Fine Arts. Professor 
Payne has spent the past eight years 
in England as director of the 
Shakespeare Memorial Theatre and 
Carnegie Tech is indeed fortunate to
In Memoriam . . .
Carnegie Institute of Technology 
has suffered the loss of one of its 
best friends in the passing from this 
life of Frank J. Lanahan, whose 
death occurred on March 2nd.
Mr. Lanahan was a member of 
the Board of Trustees of Carnegie 
Institute of Technology, of the Car
negie Institute, and the Carnegie Li
brary. In his capacity as a member 
of this board he was most magnifi
cent in his solicitation for the wel
fare of the students of Carnegie 
Tech and he was always working to 
give the student body a break. The 
evening student group on the cam
pus received as much consideration 
from him as did the others and 
when changes were contemplated or 
made, our champion was in the fore
ground arguing in our favor.
While he was not an alumnus of 
Carnegie Tech, his college education 
having been secured at Holy Ghost 
College (now Duquesne University) 
he was so thoroughly a Tech rooter 
that he became in reality one of us.
The many deeds and services ren
dered by him on numerous occa
sions were kept in the background 
as he was reluctant to have his name 
mentioned. He was a big contributor 
towards the financial needs of the 
athletic section and he aided individ
ual students in securing an educa
tion. The Kiltie Band received his 
consideration and generous aid, too, 
for he made contributions towards a 
fund which had been started to se
cure additional uniforms. It would 
be impossible, indeed, to find any 
one department or section of Car
negie which has not felt the assist
ance of his benevolence.
Mr. Lanahans passing will be felt 
off the campus too as he was a prom
inent industrialist and civic leader 
in the Pittsburgh district. Among 
the many activities were his church 
affiliation where he was a foremost 
Catholic layman; Boy Scouts leader, 
having been one of the organizers 
of this movement in Western Penn
sylvania, Pittsburgh, Longue Vue, 
Pittsburgh Field and Woodmont 
Country Clubs.
All through Mr. Lanahans life 
can be seen a wonderful example of 
self-sacrifice and his death closes a 
chapter in the history of Carnegie 
Tech which her students and grad
uates can point to with pride and 
guidance.
We bow in reverence at his sum
mons to his heavenly reward, for he 
was a good and faithful servant, and 
express our deep sympathy to the 
remaining members of his family.
be able to avail themselves of his 
talent and experience.
The play is produced with a dou
ble cast thereby enabling almost all 
of the drama students to have a par4 
in this important production.
Night school students may secure 
tickets merely by presenting their 
registration card at the Registrars 
office in the Administration Build
ing. Plan to get your tickets as 
early as possible as the demand is 
usually greater than the supply.
The Carnegie Plaid
Page edited by Evening scnool Students of Carnegie Institute of Technology. All views or opinions expressed in editorial column are not necessarily endorsed by the Editorial Board of the Day School staff.
EditorNancy E. Lewis News Editor Robert C. King
Associate Editor of EngineeringJoseph M. Rymar
Associate Editor of IndustriesMary Jo Weber
Associate Editor of Fine ArtsMarion Frost 
StaffAlbert Flanders S. W. MarcinizynMary Hensler ' D. Pettigrew. Jr.John Hundertmark Pearl PettolaEdward A. Macha Robert PoznanskiRobert Bassett Albert Ker^turkos
A
Were wondering if Bob Wilhelm 
goes steadyHes kinda cute, gals, 
dont you think? . . . Wonder what 
kind of vitamins Caroline Cook 
takesshes about the liveliest 
kid on the campus . . . Whats this 
we hear about Dave Pettigrew? We 
hear hes been singing love songs 
to the gals during the black
outs . . . Seems there are two 
wolves (Castellano and ODonnell 
by name) who, skip out of class a 
little early in order to get over to 
the Grotto in time to do their wolf
ing. Theyre even trying to swing 
A1 Etchison and Bob Johnson over 
to their scandalous ways, tch! tch! 
boys . . . Oh, by the way! Weve 
been meaning to ask Joe and Dave 
how the Thursday night Economics 
girls enjoy the beer parties after 
class . . .
PenAXMtaliti&i----------------------
Big, hardworking, smiling, TED 
TEPRAGa night student at Tech 
for nine years since his graduation 
from Braddock High in 1934 . . . 
He will receive his degree in May 
. . Metallurgical engineering be
ing his major is his special pride 
and joyalthough all technical sub
jects interest him . . . During the 
day Ted is a junior metallurgist in 
ordnance at Carnegie Illinois Cor
poration in Homestead  Three 
years ago he started there as an observor and is one of those rare peo
ple who have kept an enthusiasm for 
their job over a period of time . . . 
Although school five nights a week 
leaves him little time for activities 
he manages to find a little time for 
his musicAs he puts it, he plays 
at a fiddle . . . This summer he 
will probably feel rather lost with
out a heavy schedule to plow 
through but once that precious de
gree is his a vacation from school 
will be in order . . . Best of luck, 
Ted!
