The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 38 No. 28CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 1944
C.I.T. Cancels 44 
Football Schedule
The athletic board has discontin
ued intercollegiate football at Car
negie Tech for the 1944 season, it 
was announced last Thursday. This 
action was taken upon recommenda
tion of the Administrative Commit
tee of the Division of Physical Wel
fare and Clarence Overend, Direc
tor of Intercollegiate Athletics.
The sport was discontinued be
cause of lack of manpower, after 
desperate attempts to continue for 
the year. Only twenty-nine boys 
had signed up for football at the 
time of the decision and of these 
only 11 had played before. The 
probable decrease in the number of 
participants as the season progress
ed would have made it difficult for 
the school to field a team for the No
vember games, in the eyes of the 
Board.
The recommendation for discon
tinuance was made August 21, and 
read as follows:
In view of the limited number 
of students available to participate 
in intercollegiate football this fall, 
it was voted to recommend to Presi
dent Doherty that consideration be 
given to the discontinuance of inter
collegiate football for the fall of 
1944.
Carnegie was forced to drop the 
Continued on page 3
Sororities Commence 
Rushing September 7
Sorority Rushing at C. I. T. this 
season has definitely outdone rush
ing in the past. Outstanding in the 
activity are the original ensembles 
which each organization has created 
and is wearing as its particular dis
tinction.
The Chi Omegas have appeared in 
coral-colored jumpers and are 
carrying green felt shoulder bags 
bearing their sorority letters. Pink 
sweaters and light blue caps are 
characteristic of the Delta Gammas, 
while the Kappa Kappa Gammas 
are showing their navy jackets with 
light blue piping and Greek letters 
sewn on the pockets. The Tri-Delts 
may be recognized by their blue 
jerkins, and the AEPhis and TriGams are wearing crew hats bear
ing their letters. The Kappa Alpha 
Continued on page 3
944 Students Enrolled 
At C.I.T. This Semester
Friday, September 1, registration 
for the fall semester began, with 
classes starting the following Tues
day. The total registration in all 
schools is now 944, divided as fol
lows: College of Engineering, 237; 
College of Fine Arts, 387; Margaret 
Morrison College, 306; Carnegie Li
brary School, 14. A total of 369 
freshmen, including those freshmen 
engineers still in their summer se
mester, are now enrolled in all col
leges. The College of Engineering 
has 132 freshmen, the College of 
Fine Fin^ Arts, 119, and Margaret 
Morrison 'arnegie College, 122.
Dr. Schoen Publishes Army Ordnance Cites C.I.T.Book On Aesthetics J
Volume Covers All Arts For Notable Scientific Work
Dr. Max Schoen of Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology has published a 
valuable and much-needed book, 
The Enjoyment of the Arts. The 
book covers the entire range of the
On Saturday, August 26, the Carnegie Institute of Technology was pre
sented the Ordnance Distinguished Service Award by Major General 
Charles T. Harris, Jr., Commanding General, Aberdeen Proving Grounds, 
Maryland. Dr. Robert E. Doherty, President of Carnegie Tech, accepted 
the award.
The award was merited by Car
negie Tech, commented General 
Harris, for the outstanding work it 
performed for the Army, both prior 
to and following Pearl Harbor. The 
award was in recognition of distinct 
and notable technical and scientific 
contributions which C. I. T. made 
toward the advancement of Army 
Ordnance material. The work which
Dr. Max Schoen
arts and also includes an essay on 
each art form, contributed by an 
outstanding authority in the field. 
Dr. Schoen conceived the idea for 
the book, edited it, and selected the 
writers who did the original essays.
Dr. Schoen himself contributed a 
penetrating essay on aesthetics. In 
it he defines the substance of 
beauty, which is, he claims, depen
dent on the individuals sensitivity. 
Good art, writes Dr. Schoen, is 
like good food. Food is good if it 
nourishes the body. Likewise, good 
art for any person is the art that 
meets his need for aesthetic experi
ence. With such an attitude, Dr.
Continued on page 3
Bridge For Benefit 
Of Endowment Fund 
Takes Place Sept. 23
The Carnegie Tech Endowment 
Fund, sponsored by the Mothers 
clubs and various faculty members 
of C. I. T. will be held in the gym
nasium September 23. The idea for 
the benefit presented by the Kappa 
Alpha Theta Mothers Club, under 
the leadership of Mrs. W. Slocum. 
The program will consist of a bene
fit bridge and entertainment held 
both afternoon and evening.
The profit from this gigantic un
dertaking will go solely to the Car
negie Tech Endowment Fund. 
Every effort is being made to make 
it a success, because for each dol
lar raised by the benefit, six dollars 
will go to the Endowment Fund, for 
the Buhl Foundation is matching 
every dollar raised, while the Car
negie Foundation is contributing 
double this amount.
The following groups are sponsor
ing this event: Womans Club of 
C. I. T., Womens Clan, Mortar 
Board, Cwens, Sigma Alpha Iota, 
Alpha Kappa Psi, Alpha Epsilon 
Phi, Delta Delta Delta, Alpha Theta, 
Gamma Gamma Gamma, Gamma 
Phi Sigma, and the Mothers Club 
of Beta Theta Pi.
The chairman of this project, Mrs. 
W. Slocum, and the vice-chairmen, 
Mrs. R. Doherty and Mrs. E. Thorpe, 
Continued on page 3
C. I. T. Graduate Wins Award
Schuyler J. Goho, a Carnegie 
graduate and foreman of the factory 
feeder department of the Cleveland 
Lighting Division of the Westinghouse Electric & Manufacturing 
Company, has been awarded the
Schuylen J. Goho
Companys highest award, the Or
der of Merit, for his contributions 
to war production. The Chairman 
of the Board, A. W. Robertson, pre
sented him with a bronze medal, 
bearing a silver W and the inscrip
tion Whom his fellow men delight 
to honor.
Mr. Goho was born in Nuremberg, 
Pennsylvania, attended Pitcairn 
High School and was graduated in 
1927 from the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology where he specialized in 
sheet metal pattern drafting and me
chanical engineering. Starting at 
Westinghouse in the sheet metal 
layout department, he was then ad
vanced to foreman of refrigerator 
assembly. He was named foreman 
of the feeder division of the Com
panys X-Ray Division, Long Island 
City, in 1936 and was later trans
ferred to his present position.
Mr. Goho was honored for his 
contributions to the art of sheet 
metal working as applied to a broad 
range of Westinghouse products, 
which resulted in a better product 
at less cost.
Carnegie Tech performed saved the 
country millions of dollars.
Much of the work which Dr. 
Doherty and his staff did was checkr 
Continued on page 4
Drs. Gregg And Dawes 
Will Speak At Assembly
In answer to the many student re
quests for knowledge of world af
fairs, Dr. L. H. Schultz has arrang
ed for Professors Robert Gregg and 
Norman Dawes to survey recent 
world events and future prospects 
during the student assembly toda^. 
In Covering the World, Dr. Gregg, 
head of the history department, will 
enlarge upon the Far East, while 
Dr. Dawes will treat the European 
and Russian situation. Both, in re
viewing the past events of the yeat 
and predicting future possibilities, 
will present the allied and axis 
points of view.
Professor Dawes, in the Fine Arts 
Building, teaches modern civiliza
tion as it is related to the arts, while 
in the Margaret Morrison College; 
he is the instructor of history of 
civilization. Professor Gregg, teach
ing in M. M. C., specializes in United 
States and Pennsylvania history. He 
is also responsible for the history 
course given the A. S. T. P.s. Both 
instructors have classes in social re
lations.
Planned during the early part of 
the summer, this program is in 
answer to a direct request from the 
students of 1943-44.

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 194
CdUtcViX Abmchail
Welcome Freshmen
You have chosen to come to college at a time when every person must 
contribute directly to the war effort in which our country is now engaged. 
Your choice has been a good one. Winning the war is not our only con
cern; we must prepare ourselves and plan for the post-war period. Today 
the children of war, tomorrow you will be the adults of the peace, and 
therefore you must be ready to carry the burden of post-war recondition
ing and reconstruction. This job has been delegated to you because it is 
the job for the educated.
In these times, therefore, more than ever before, your paramount ob
jective at the Carnegie Institute of Technology will be a sound academic 
education. This you can only achieve doing what you are supposed to do 
when you are supposed to do it. Remember that in college you are on 
your own. Gone are the ways of high schools, where the teachers assum
ed the initiative, led you in your education, and spurred you on when 
you were falling behind. Here you are expected to be mature enough to 
be automotive. You must remind yourself not to over cut nor to be overly 
late. You must be able to tell for yourself when your work is not up to 
par. Your college career, and with it your entire future, is placed square
ly on your own shoulders.
This, however, does not mean that your college life should be devoted 
to studies alone. Remember that you shall be able to apply your academic 
knowledge only in contact with other people, and this precludes the ability 
to deal with others. College canand mustbe a lesson in this also. You 
are meeting people who come from places other than your own home town, 
people not of your creed, and occasionallymuch too seldompeople of a 
different race. Your new friends and associates will have backgrounds, 
customs, and opinions different from yoursand they, too, will be the 
adults of the future. If you can get along with them now, yoy shall be 
able to do it later.
There is only one way to accomplish this: be a joiner. Join fraterni
ties and sororities; go out for publications, clubs, and organizations. In 
most of these you will not only be able to exercise some particular skill 
or hobby, you will also be closely associated with a large number of stu
dents, and we do not have to tell you how much good this will do to you.
Dont let anyone tell you that you have picked a bad time to enter
C. I. T., that most organizations are dead, and campus life virtually non
existent. If you have what it takes, you could not have chosen a better 
time to enroll. No longer are things all cut out for you; no longer can you 
look about you leisurely, and pick out the organizations you would like to 
join. Today, you must go out and fashion yourself the things you want. If 
you like to sing, and there is no Glee Club . . . get busy and organize one. 
If you prefer to discuss current events, dont bemoan the fact that there 
may be no pertinent organizations . . . start one yourself. Take it from 
those who know: there is no grander feeling than the knowledge of hav
ing created something yourself, whether it is a new publication or a sew
ing club.
And besides, Carnegie Tech is your school, and it can never be better 
than what you make it. If you shrug shoulders at it now, then don't be 
amazed if later people will shrug their shoulders at you and say Carnegie 
Tech? Never heard of it.
All this adds up to but one thing: from now on, you, and you alone, 
are responsible for your own future. Make the most of it. Adapt yourself 
to your new surroundings, remembering always that however strange your 
new associates may seem to you, they will all be glad to become your 
friends. Show your maturity by doing what you can yourself, but un
hesitatingly asking help when you need it.
Welcome, freshmen, and good luck. 
________________________________________________________THE EDITORS.
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the ttaff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Canteri Institute of Technology, Sehenley Park, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
PHONE MAYFLOWER 200 PHONE SCHENLEY 4557
After Office Hours CallI^MCMMTIO FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BYNational Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative 
420 Madison Avs. Niw York. N.Y. 
Cikuo  So*to  Lo Amelia  sa Fa*cisco
Editor-in-Chief .............................EM. 9424
Business Manager.........................EM. 9424
C.I.T.s Ellis Plans 
Arts And Skills Units
Professor J. B. Ellis is the chair
man of a committee now organizing 
Arts and Skills Units to be sent to 
Deshon General Hospital at Butler, 
Pa., and the Veterans Hospital at 
Aspinwall, Pa. These units will con-* 
sist of persons skilled in various 
crafts who will be able to make the 
trip one day a week (Monday 
through Friday) from nine to four. 
The transportation will be provided 
by the Red Cross since the plan 
meets with their full approval.
Persons are wanted who are qual
ified in the following arts and skills 
modeling, weaving, water or finger 
painting, block or simple printing, 
book binding, and leather crafts. 
The committee would like five peo
ple to represent each one.
This volunteer work has met 
great success on the seaboard hos
pitals and the convalescents have 
greatly appreciated this fine con
tribution.
The members of the Pittsburgh 
committee are:
J. B. Ellis, head of Carnegie Techs 
Sculpturing Department, chair
man.
John OConner, Jr., acting director 
of the Fine Arts Department of 
Carnegie Institute.
Prof. Fredrick C. Clayter, in charge 
of crafts at Carnegie Tech.
Miss Ruth Ebken, Supervisor of Art 
at the Pittsburgh Public Schools. 
Miss Lois Clifford, President of the 
Pittsburgh Chapter of the Guild 
of Pennsylvania Craftsmen.
Mrs. W. F. McCrady, Special Serv
ice Division of the Red Cross. 
Anyone who is interesting in 
making this trip may do so by con
tacting Mrs. McCrady (GRant 1680) 
or by seeing Prof. Ellis in the Sculp
turing Department.
Observations
By the Frosh Engineers 
..That advertising photos of Ma
chinery Hall have a blacked-out 
background. (I see nothing of spec
ial significance showing behind Ma
chinery Hall.) (Pardon us! Your 
background is showing. Ed.)
Blue Jeans are strictly formal 
attire this season.
That school ends for everyone 
around 1 oclock but me.
an A is an animal that is 
practically extinct.
That the Betas are always late 
for Chem Lecture in the A. M. (Is it 
because the school is so far, or 
Kahns so near?)
About six slick seniors have a 
monopoly on the thick grass across 
the street from Maggy Murph.
The A. S. T. R. C.s are weewolves.
In the Canteen, alias the hut, 
Bridge is never played on anything 
less than, Milkman, Keep Those 
Bottles Quiet.
Slide-rule priorities are too 
easy to get.
All Tartan reporters and exe
cutive staff members are 4 factor 
students. (Heh, Heh!!! Ed.)
An obscure room labeled, Pat
tern Making, hides refugees from 
the Scottie, Tartan, Thistle, and 
Technical.
Many fellows hang around the 
open windows of the Fine Arts 
buildingIts their acute love of the 
finer-things-of life, no doubt.
Tri-Delt Fraternity 
Makes Scholarship 
Available To Carnegie
At Carnegie Tech, Miss Helen 
McKean, senior science student, 
heads the newly-formed War Serv
ice Scholarship Fund Committee of 
the Alpha Tau chapter of Delta 
Delta Delta, national college fra
ternity for women. Recommended 
by the national convention of the 
fraternity held in Chicago in June, 
1942, the scholarship plan was made 
one of the national organizations 
two war service projects, the other 
being financial aid to China through 
United China Relief.
Open to any qualified junior or 
senior woman, whether or not af
filiated with any sorority, the schol
arships will be avaliable on any 
campus which has a chapter of Del
ta Delta Delta which has set up its 
own nucleus fund. Women stu
dents specializing in subjects useful 
to the war effort and to post-war re
construction, and who are having 
difficulty finishing their education 
because of the war situation, are eli
gible.
For each dollar which the local 
chapter raises toward such a schol
arship, the national organization 
will give two dollars up to a limit of 
four hundred dollars to the individ
ual chapter for the fraternity at 
large. The amount of the scholar
ship offered by the Carnegie Tech 
chapter is one hundred and fifty 
dollars.
According to regulations set up 
by the fraternity, each chapter will 
appoint a committee to recommend 
applicants to the general fund ad
ministrator, Mrs. Fredrick D. Cole
man of Lincoln, Nebraska. Members 
of the local committee are: Miss 
Helen McKean, collegiate member 
of Tri Delta; Miss Helen Weise, an 
alumna member; Professor Win
chester of the Secretarial Depart
ment; and Dean Yon, a member of 
the administrative staff of the col
lege.
After this local committee has 
passed upon an application, it will 
be sent to the general chairman for 
final approval.
Beta Theta Pi Boys 
Serenade Frosh Dorms
The strains of well-known frater
nity songs were wafted to the girls 
in Carnegies dorms last Wednesday 
night as the annual Beta Theta Pi 
Serenade to welcome new Tech co
eds took place. In true lovers style, 
the Betas sang beneath the windows 
of the various campus dormitories 
their welcome to the newcomers, 
continuing a tradition that has long 
been associated with the opening of 
the school year at Tech.
Notice
The first meeting of the varsity 
basketball squad will be Thurs
day, September 14, at 5 P. M. in 
the mens gymnasium. All candi
dates must be present, with their 
own equipment, for a brief work
out.
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St HA. 0193
Enter* aa aecanC-daaa matter tn the Pittabarffe Peat Office under the Act of March 8, 1879. Pabllahed weekly liriai school year, except holiday and examination perloda. Subscription Price $1.10 per year.
Editors-in-chief .......................................................... Ernie Lowenstein, Adeline Herlick
Business Manager ............................................................................................... Ivan Faigen
Managing Editor ............................................ ................................................ Clara Herron
News Editor ........................................................................................................ Dottie King
Copy Editor...........................................................................................................Augie Binder
Headline Editor.....................................................................................Mary Jane Horridge
Sports Editor .................................................................................................... Howard Roby
Photographers ................................................................................. Dan Franks, Bill Jones
Reports: Millard Brown, Bdb Connelley, Warren Hclmer, Dick Herrmann, Audrey 
Hobe, Bob Johnson, Rosemarie Lang, Anita Newell, Georgette Paljug, Frank Peter
son, Vincent Prus, Clark Sloan, Johnny Vansuch, Dale Wright, Lil Moravecki and 
Lillian Jacobs.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 1944THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
Beta Tau Lambda Goes National 
As Carnegie Tech Loses Beetles
Here are the the new Thetas, sixteen strong.
Lee ft to right. First rowLucy Deily, Mona Kahn, Miss Myers, Dottie
King, Jackie Alexander, Ann Shively, Peggy Cole.
Second rowSue Linderman, Boo Girts, Pat Werner, Betty McKean, 
Ginger Hall, Lenore De Wall, Louise Koenig, Prissy Dodge, Pat Walker. 
Dr. Doherty and Maj. Gen. Harris
Six Navy Officers 
Enroll at C.I.T.
This year, as in the past, the Unit
ed States Navy is sending their nav
al officers who qualify to Carnegie 
Tech to take advanced courses in 
metallurgy and special studies. Six 
men, some of whom have already 
seen action in the South Pacific, are 
now registered for the two semester 
course under Lt. Commander Freed
man of Annapolis. When they 
leave, they will be placed in a spec
ialized field by the Navy Depart
ment which will put their metal
lurgical training to use.
Three years ago Lt. Commander 
Bowen was one of the officers as
signed to Tech. He has now been 
in the South Pacific eighteen months 
on a destroyer.
Schoen Publishes Booh
Continued from page 1 
Schoen has chosen the component 
parts of his book, which would en
thuse many an aesthetic snob as 
well as many a person frightened 
away from the arts by the holy air 
of seclusion assumed by a number 
of critics.
Among the contributors to the 
book are two Pittsburghers, beside 
Dr. Schoen. They are Professor Jo
seph Baily Ellis of the Department 
of Sculpture, Carnegie Institute of 
Technology, and the late Lazio Ga
bor, former display director for 
Kaufmanns and Assistant Professor 
of Architecture at C.I.T.
In his essay, Professor Ellis, who 
contributes a human straightfor
ward account of what makes sculp
ture and sculptures, asks the reader 
to participate as a sculptor and 
shows how simple it is for anyone to 
creatively express form in this art 
medium.
Professor Gabor simplifies the 
complex field of architecture so that 
it may be understood by the lay
man. The main thesis of his essay 
is that architecture should rise out 
of its natural surroundings and 
make use of the qualities of ma
terials.
Non-Pittsburgh contributors to 
the book are: David Diaches, a
young British literary critic whose 
essay on poetry is a masterpiece of 
synthesis of this art form; Thomas 
Munro, of the Cleveland Museum of 
Art, with an essay on painting; An
tonin and Charlotta Heythum, of 
the California Institute of Technol
ogy, with an essay on industrial de
sign; Barrett H. Clark, anthologist, 
with an essay on drama; Milton S. 
Fox, advisor to several Hollywood 
studios, with a serious study of the 
movies; Van Met\?r Ames of the Uni
versity of Cincinnati with an essay 
on enjoying the novel; Glen Haydon, music critic of the University 
of North Carolina, with an essay on 
music, and George Boas, Professor 
of Philosophy at John Hopkins Uni
versity, with an essay on criticism.
Dr. Schoen has published ten 
books and some ten dozen artrcles 
in journals since arriving at C. I. T. 
in 1921. His book Art and Beauty 
was reviewed as a feature article 
in the Saturday Review of Litera
ture by James Branch Cabell. Dr. 
Schoen is working on two books, 
both of which are scheduled for 
publication next year. He is on the 
editorial board of several important 
scholarly magazines. 
On Ap^-il 28 of this year, the mem
bers of Beta Tau Lambda, a Fine 
Arts sorority known as the Beetles, 
changed from the Beetle green and 
gold to the black and gold of Kappa 
Alpha Theta. As the Gamma Theta 
chapter of Kappa Alpha Theta, they 
became the 69th college chapter. 
The Thetas,_ organized at DePauw 
College in 1870, are one of the old
est womens fraternities and wear 
a black and gold kite as an emblem.
To participate in the initiation 
and installation ceremonies, which 
were of interest to college chapters 
and alumnae all over the country, 
came many of the national officers. 
They included the Grand President, 
Mrs. Robert W. Higbie of New Gar
dens, N. Y.; Mrs. James H. Moore, 
Grand Treasurer from Omaha, Ne
braska; and Mrs. John T. Peden of 
Poland, Ohio, president of the dis
trict.
On Friday night, April 27, occur
red the first event of the weekend, 
the pledging ceremony, which took 
place at the Pitt Theta house.
Following the initiation ceremony 
was a banquet at the Twentieth 
Century Club. In charge of the ban
quet program was Mrs. Tracy 
Bartholomew, president of the Pitts
burgh Alumnae Chapter as toast
master. Dean Yon and Mrs. Robert
Sorority Rushing ...
Continued from page 1
Thetas display their membership
by wearing their kite-shaped pins.
Rushing began on Thursday, Sep
tember 7; the non-rush tea was held 
on Wednesday afternoon at Whit
field Hall. The house was filled to 
capacity by the 97 rushees, six na
tional sorority members, sponsors, 
and various faculty members pres
ent. Each rushee was presented 
with a name card as she entered, 
and each sorority member wore her 
pin and name card.
Following the Tefreshments, each 
sorority presented a 3-minute skit, 
or songs, many in beautiful har
mony. The tea lasted from 4 to 6.
Rushing will continue until Sep
tember 17, and is highlighted by a 
number of parties given indepen
dently by each sorority.
E. Doherty were guests of honor. 
Sunday, April 29 was the date in 
which Gamma Theta Chapter was 
installed as the 69th chapter of Kap
pa Alpha Theta. The service was 
read at the Twentieth Century Club. 
Following the installation from 5:00 
until 7:00 Sunday evening, the new 
chapter received in the Carnegie 
Union while the BTL Mothers 
Club served tea to the guests which 
included Tech members of the fac
ulty and administration and other 
social organizations. Sunday con
cluded the events of the weekend 
and began the work which natural
ly falls on the shoulders of a new 
national chapter.
C.I.T. Benefit...
Continued from page 1 
will welcome arfcr group and appre
ciate suggestions.
A feature of the benefit will be 
a variety of colorful and interesting 
booth. The Harvest Home Booth 
under Mrs. C. C. Brinton of the 
Womans Clan should be of special 
interest to all victory gardeners. In 
it will be displayed jellies, pre
serves, and produce from some of 
our gardens. From Mrs. Brintons 
farm will come a fascinating variety 
of tomatoescherry, plum, orange, 
and yellow tomatoes; from Garden 
Center Head, Mrs. Olivers Fox 
Chapel Estate, will come other fine 
fruit and vegetable specimens.
To those whose interests do not 
include fruits, vegetables, preserves, 
or jellies, Mrs. Coles booth of lapel 
ornaments and pins may be more 
appealing. These ornaments are 
tiny dollsall handmade from a 
colorful and fascinating variety of 
beads. Each doll has its own in
trinsic personality due perhaps to 
a button-shape face, an extra long 
neck, or a pair of purple socks.
Having whiled away your time 
at these two utterly different booths, 
it would be only human to pause at 
the Food Booth wherein will be 
found cake, candy cookies, and 
every sort of tempting delicacy, all 
of which have been contributed 
from the pans and ovens of Tech 
friends.
General Yahkontaff 
Delivers Lecture On 
Russia And Peace
General Victor A. Yahkontaff 
will deliver a lecture entitled 
Soviet Russia and World Peace 
at Carnegie Music Hall, Oakland, 
on the evening of October 2, 1944. 
The lecture is the first of a series to 
be sponsored by the Pittsburgh 
Council of American Soviet Friend
ship. The lectures in the series will 
be concerned with various phases of 
American Soviet relations in the 
post-war world. There is no charge 
for the lecture series.
General Yahkontaff was an offic
er in the Imperial Army, served as 
military attache of the Imperial 
Russian Embassy, was acting Secre
tary of War under the Kerensky 
government, and since 1918 has 
been living in the United States 
where he is known as an authority 
on old and new Russia. He comes 
to Pittsburgh, where he is well 
known as a lecturer, under the aus
pices of the Pittsburgh Council of 
American Soviet Friendship,' re
cently organized to promote friend
ship and understanding between the 
people of the United States and the 
people of the Soviet Union.
Football...
Continued from page 1 
sport during the last war, but car
ried on in 1943 under great difficul
ties. The only returning player 
from last years team was Cliff 
Mikus, and the manpower drain 
caused by the cancellation of engi
neering student deferments this 
summer would have left only fresh
men to fill the majority of the posi
tions. The Army would not allow 
the soldiers on campus in the A. S. 
T. P. and A. S. T. Reserve pro
grams to participate in intercollegi
ate sports.
Carnegie had a six-game schedule 
arranged as follows: October 7,
University of Kentucky at Lexing
ton; October 21, West Virginia Uni
versity at Morgantown; October 28, 
Lehigh University at Bethlehem; 
November 4, Pitt here; November
11, Case here; November 18, Mich
igan State at East Lansing. All the 
games were tentative and subject to 
cancellation by Tech if it proved 
impossible to field a team.
to's go o
ISALY'S
MILK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM CONES
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Allies

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 1944
Alpha Kappa Psi Initiated Into 
Chi Omega Sorority August 26
Heres What You 
Missed Recentlyj
During the summer, only engi
neers and Maggie Murph seniors 
were around the Tech campus to 
contribute to the making of news. 
For the benefit of those who had the 
good fortune of a summer vacation, 
a brief round-up of the more im
portant events of the summer 
months is published.
May 23Miss Elizabeth Helm, 
mens dormitory superintendent un
til 1937, and friend of the students, 
died May 12.
May 30Dean Murphy, assistant 
dean of men, Counselor on Finan
cial Aid to Students, and faculty ad
visor for all student activities, 
leaves Carnegie Tech for the dura
tion, to do some work of national 
importance.
Professors F. M. McCullough, J. 
Vick OBrien, and Willard E. 
Hotchkiss retire from active par
ticipation in campus life.
June 6Dr. Robert E. Mehl, head 
of the Metals Research Laboratory 
returns to Carnegie Tech after a 
lecture tour of several months in 
Brazil.
June 13New engineering fresh
men start school.
June 20It was announced that 
students following an engineering 
course and who are classified 1-AL, 
will have the opportunity to finish 
school.
June 27Bernie Armstrong puts 
over the Summer Swing with 85 
couples in attendance.
Professor Leo T. Lawler, pro
fessor of English, dies suddenly in 
Buffalo.
Fifty-one freshmen pledged by 
five fraternities.
Engineering students graduate 
after completion of an accelerated 
expedited program.
July 11Citcom and Co. A-12 win 
intramural softball championship.
July 18Professor Glen U. Cleeton becomes head of the Division of 
Humanistic and Social Studies. 
Prof. Joseph B. Rosenbach is ap
pointed secretary of the division.
A new committee, the Student 
Faculty Liaison Committee, has been 
formed to bring about closer coop
eration between the student body 
and the administration of Carnegie 
Tech.
Pvt. Dick Kaffenberger is one 
of 150 men in the nation to be ac
cepted for the Coast Guard Acad
emy.
July 25Dr. Elliot D. Smith of 
Yale University will come to Car
negie Tech around the first of Oc
tober, it was announced. He will 
occupy the Maurice Faulk chair in 
the Social Relations Department.
ASTP students have commence
ment exercises.
August 1Dr. Frederick T. Mav
is has been appointed head of the 
Civil Engineering Department, com
ing to Carnegie Tech from Penn 
State.
ROTC Rifle Team wins second 
place in the Eastern Service Com
mand.
The Thistle, scheduled to ap
pear June 1, has just been released 
to the students.
August 8Irwin Aisenberg and 
Dave Fleck win the tennis cham
pionship.
Professor Cleeteon announces
At a ceremony held during the 
weekend of August 26 Alpha Kappa 
Psi, first local on campus, was in
itiated as the Omicron Delta Chap
ter of Chi Omega, national frater
nity. This national is a large organ
ization with 96 chapters headed by 
Mrs. Mary Love Collins, national 
president.
The Installation Ceremony was 
held on Saturday, August 26. Rep
resenting the national organization 
at this ceremony were Mrs. Christelle Ferguson, Editor of Eleuses, 
the paper of Chi Omega; Mrs. Helen 
Gordan, Dean of Women of South
western University; Mrs. Howard 
Speer, Dean of Women at Elmhurst 
College; Mrs. E. M. Hanovan, Chair
man of the Firesides from Detroit, 
Michigan.
On Sunday afternoon, there was 
a luncheon at Webster Hall, follow
ed by a tea at which the local chap
ter was introduced to the national 
organization.
Out of the sixteen times that it 
was awarded, the Alpha Kappa Psis
changes to be made in the Social 
Relations Department in the fall.
August 15  the Tartan chooses 
Adeline Herlick and Ernie Lowenstein to be co-editors for the fall. 
New staff chosen to assist editors.
Thirty-six Margaret Morrison 
and four engineering students grad
uate in Sylvan Theater.
Theta Xis win second softball in
tramural league championship.
Between August 15 and today, no 
copy of the Tartan appeared, due 
mostly to the fact that campus life 
ceased when faced with the com
petition of final exams. These notes 
should bring everything up to date 
for those that missed the summer 
session of Carnegie Tech.
Notice
An important meeting of the TAR
TAN staff will be held at 5:00 Friday 
afternoon.Any freshman interested in working 
on the staff must be present.
If you have not already signed up, 
come to the meeting anyhow.
won eight times the scholarship 
which is awarded to the sorority 
having the highest scholastic aver
age. They also won the Greek Sing 
and Swing Cup last spring.
Now that Alpha Kappa Psi has 
gone national, this year promises to 
be an important one for its seven
teen active members: Irene Waichler, President; Frances Quill, VicePresident; Dorothy Dee, Secretary; 
Eleanor Yorke, Treasurer; Marion 
Costa, Vocational Guide; Lindsay 
Jordan, Rushing Chairman; Marie 
Falkenhagen, Personnel Chairman; 
Jane Engelhardt, Pledge Mistress; 
Jane Grim and Dorothy Taylor, 
Representatives t o Panhellenic 
Council, Marjorie Schroeder, Patri
cia Delahaunty, Peggie Westzel, 
Jean Croshure, Dorothy Hallis, Vir
ginia Elliott, and Doris Ferraez. 
Mrs. Russel Hyde is their advisor.
Army Citation .. 
Continued from page 1 
ed under field conditions at the 
Armys Proving Grounds at Aber
deen, Maryland. Before he was as
signed to the Proving Ground as 
commanding officer, General Har
ris served in the Office of the Chief 
of Ordnance.
Prior to the commencement ex
ercises, General Harris reviewed on 
the parade ground the ASTP unit 
at Carnegie Tech.
RODGERS
DAIRY STORES
MILK SHAKES
Made from Pure Whole Milk for only 15c
We Do Not Use Skim Milk.

NEAREST STORES LOCATED
------AT------
3905 FORBES STREET
Near Bouquet Street
4619 CENTER AVENUE
Near Craig Street
*laleA.I 9*t Khaki . .
By Augie Binder
More news about Carnegie Tech 
men in the Air Forces . . .
James McFarland has just com
pleted his Naval Air Training at
James McFarland
Corpus Christi, Texas and has been 
commissioned an ensign in the U. S. 
Naval Reserve.
William Karl Julin also has fin
ished his Naval Air Training at
Karl Julin
Corpus Christi and received his 
commission as a lieutenant in the 
U. S. Marine Corps Reserve.
ifTiflllCT
Fort Pitt Is the Place 
to Rent
TYPEWRITERS
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
