3rtic Carnegie 3Tartau
Vol. 35 No. 13CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, DECEMBER 1G, 1941
times such as these. Therefore 
,that hope of reconstruction is a 
bright point to those engineers who 
are now downhearted. Thus, it 
becomes most advantageous that 
.they finish here, so that, when war 
is done, they can further advance 
.the welfare of our land.
Dr. Jones talk was very hearten
ing. The discouragement as a re
sult of the war was relieved by his 
explanations of the conditions. It 
is to be noted that the talk was 
quite timely. This promises to be 
a very dark Christmas, full of.sad
ness and lacking the usual gaiety. 
JHis talk held all the hope for a 
.brighter world to come, despite the 
grave conditions at present. To 
many it gave a feeling of security 
which the startling news of the day 
before had shaken severely.
War at Teel
Vol .35N1 CNA11RoN1 E5GI5NNo1 
S35TNo5I5G UOAOR1 I5 VNFN51N
When Dr. Jones spoke informally 
to the dorm 'boys a week ago yes
terday, he was truly caught off 
guard. He had planned to speak 
of the effect on Techites of the na
tional defense program, but our 
little slant-eyed friends changed 
the theme slightly. His true sub
ject was the effect of the war.
He uncovered a good many facts 
and here are some which have been 
much discussed in bull-sessions.
First, the question of squeezing the 
courses in engineering into three 
years :with classes all summer:
Washington raised this question last 
spring, and Techs answer was, and 
still is, definitely No! Draft?
This pertinent question brought a 
reply to the effect that engineers 
are sorely needed, both in industry 
and in the armed forcesnow!
Special emphasis is being given by 
the government to the need of elec
trical engineers and physicists. The 
question of the fate of the fresh
men is answered 'by the fact that 
many are 'being encouraged to ' 
change to these departments. He 
said that there was little likelihood 
that school will be disrupted, espe
cially since there is such a demand 
for engineers.
Of course, most Techites, al
though they do not want to lose 
their schooling, are nevertheless 
anxious to aid in the defense of our 
country. To these students Dr.
Jones said that civilian defense of
fered many positions to willing 
takers.
R. O. T. C. men who graduate 
next spring and enter directly into 
the armed services will probably 
serve in engineering capacities, so,that their education will not be 
wasted. Dr. Jones emphasized the 
need for engineers both during the 
war and in the time of post-war 
(reconstruction.
In view of this, he urged that'en
gineers do all in their power to 
complete their courses, for the coun
try needs them. Most engineers 
want to be constructive-. Some of 
them may care little to be engineers 
of destruction, as is necessary in
J. G. Vol.353N
Kapjlia Sig, Beta
Men Play Santa 
Claus to Orphans
This is certainly a real Christ
mas for the orphans. The Kappa 
Sigs and the Beta Theta Pis have 
decided to play Santa Claus to a 
number of children from certain 
orphanages!
Tomorrow, December 17, Kappa 
Sigma is inviting 15 boys, ranging 
in age from 8 to 12 years of age, to 
dinner, after which they plan to 
have an entertainment consisting of 
games and novelty childrens rec
ords. After dinner, Santa Claus is 
to present gifts which are to be 
placed under thb Christmas tree. 
The orphans are to come from the 
Ward Home for Children on Bige
low Boulevard.
Last Sunday, the Betas also gave 
a party for about 20 boys and girls, 
five to ten years old, who came from 
the Protestant Orphans Home. Last 
year, a group from this same Home 
was entertained. Running all over 
the first floor were many electric 
trains and in the basement there 
was an archery range. Presents, 
such as wood-carving and weaving 
sets were given by Santa Claus. 
There were several skits given by 
Bill Thunhurst and Chris Smith, 
and Dave Ellis gave his magic show. 
At the end of the program, refresh
ments were served.
Debate Team Wins 
Five, Drops Three
Saturday, December 6, our debate 
team, composed of Edward McGehee, Allen Martin, Wayne John
son, and Joe McCandless took part 
in the big Westminster Debate 
Tournament. The boys did a good 
job, winning five discussions and 
losing only three.
Of the three losses, two were to 
Houghton- Collegeand that, inci
dentally, was the team that won 
the tournament. The other dropped 
decision was to Allegheny College. 
Victory favored us when the boys 
debated with the other five col
leges, Waynesburg, West Virginia 
University, Westminster, Buckneli, 
and Pitt.
The next day we entertained the 
Colgate team in a non-decision dis
cussion.
HoALRAON1 UNN 
YAo ,5 PABAII
Several Tech graduates-received 
first hand experience in Blitz war
fare last December 7, when the 
Japanese bombed Hawaii.
At this time no word has been 
received concerning their welfare. 
However, a telegram was received 
by Mrs. Louis G. Moslener of Monaca carrying the sad news that 
her only son, Louis G. Moslener, 
Jr., 23, had been killed in the attack 
on Hawaii Sunday. Lieutenant 
Moslener attended Carnegie Tech 
for two years, and quit his studies 
in May, 1940, to go into the United 
States Air Corps. He was a mem
ber of Theta Xi fraternity.
Those Tech graduates now living 
in Hawaii are Lieutenant Charles 
Dobson, Engineering 41, with the 
34th Engineers; Sam Y. Parke, 
Architecture 41, Hilo; Mrs. Dan 
M. Douglas 36, Hilo; Lenley 
Hawksworth, Industries 21, with 
the Honolulu Star Bulletin; John 
W. Kuhnel, Engineering 28, with 
the U. S. Engineers in Honolulu; 
Mrs. Frederick O. Schweizer 41, 
Honolulu; Mutsuto Nakamura, En
gineering 39, Hamakuapoka; Jitsuo 
Niwao, Engineering 38, Hilo; James 
W. Smith, Industries, 29, Honolulu; 
and Frank W. Swartz, Engineering 
37, U. S. Air Corps, Honolulu.
Also living in Hawaii is Betty 
Price, who attended Tech last year. 
When word was last received from 
her, she was in Pearl City, one of 
the main obectives of the Japanese 
bombs.
Defense Councils 
Meet For Joint 
Group Discussion
Latest plans for Carnegie Techs 
participation in civilian defense 
have the Tech Faculty Defense 
Committee becoming an integral 
part of the Pittsburgh Defense 
Council. Formerly the Carnegie 
unit was not affiliated with any 
local organization, but rather 
worked only on the Tech campus. 
This newly formulated' plan will 
also have students working on sev
eral of the committees with fac
ulty members.
Last week, the Carnegie Tech 
Faculty Defense Committee held a 
joint meeting with faculty and stu
dent representatives of the Univer
sity of Pittsburgh and Pennsylva
nia College for Women. At this 
meeting Dr. Ben G. Graham, Super
intendent of Schools of the City of 
Pittsburgh, discussed at some length 
the work of the American Council 
on Education in connection with 
Civilian Defense.
Dr. Graham explained that the 
Council had undertaken two gen
eral projects: First, direct cooper
ation with the Army and Draft 
Officials, and secondly, develop
ment of civilian morale.
On the matter of possible air 
raids affecting the Pittsburgh dis
trict, Dr. Graham announced that 
teachers are being asked to volun
teer to instruct air wardens, after 
they had received competent in
struction in the fundamentals. 
Training courses are contemplated 
for every campus in the city of 
Pittsburgh, and in case of air raids, 
immediate dispersal of students has 
shown itself, in England, to be the 
best method.
Dr. Webster N. Jones, Director 
of the College of Engineering and 
a member of the Pennsylvania State 
Defense Council, discussed a letter 
from Mayor La Guardia, Director 
of Civilian Defense. The letter an
nounced that there was a com
mission on colleges in national de
fense and that the commission had 
taken up the following matters:
1.) Protection of persons and prop
erty against aerial attack; 2.) The 
development of civilian morale; and
3.) Initiating volunteer nurses pro
gram, fire auxiliary units,' medical 
services, and the training of air 
raid wardens.
The American Red Cross ex
plained the need for blood donors, 
stating that the Red Cross Head
quarters in the Wabash Building 
were receiving blood donors on 
Monday, Wednesday, Thursday, and 
Friday of each week from 12 noon 
to 5:30 P. M., and on each Tuesday 
from 3 to 8 P. M.
42 Sophomore Hop 
To Be Informal
Appearing next on the Carnegie 
social program is the Soph Hop to 
be held on Friday, January 9. The 
dance will take place in Thistle 
Hall from 9 A. M. till 1 P. M., and 
the price will be $1.38 per couple, 
tax included.
Departing from last years prece
dent, the dance will be informal. 
This is largely due to the fact that 
because of the war it is felt that 
small bands should be contracted 
for dances insofar as is expedient, 
in order to use the money for more 
appropriate defense measures. Be
cause of this, the orchestra will 
probably be a local one. The Soph
omore class, which is in charge of 
the dance, is planning to contact 
all of the students on the campus 
in an all out publicity drive to 
convince the wary males that the 
dance will be worth their sheckles.
An extensive theme for decorat
ing Thistle Hall is underway, and 
as usual the Black Cat will be open 
for all habitual pop drinkers.
CAoN DAG5IFINo 
HIMN5 O3 9NT4
Carnegie Tech will soon receive 
an $11,000 electronic inicroscopo 
for use in the study of metallurgical 
problems. This microscope is the 
most recent development in the 
quest for a microscope possessing 
greater powers of magnification. It 
has a resolving power that is be
tween ten and one hundred times 
greater than the maximum theo
retical x-esolving power of a micro
scope that uses a glass optical sys
tem.
As yet, these microscopes are 
scarce and in the United States there 
are only about a dozen and half. Dr. 
V. K. Zworykin, director of the 
Electronic Research Laboratory of 
the RCA Manufacturing Company, 
and under whose direction the elec
tronic microscope was developed, 
has cooperated in the initial studies 
that have been conducted at Tech.
The electron microscope uses neg
atively charged electron rays to 
supplant the light rays that are 
utilized in an ordinary microscope. 
These rays are emitted when elec
trons in a vacuum are subjected 
to an electrical discharge. Electron 
waves are much shorter than light 
waves and are comparable to 
atomic dimensions. A magnetic 
field bends the electron rays and 
performs the same function as the 
glass lenses of an ordinary micro
scope.
In the electronic microscope, the 
electrons originate at a heated 
cathode and are accelerated to an 
anode by a potential of several 
thousand volts. The first magnetic 
field is placed between the cathode 
and the object to be observed. This 
magnetic field acts as a condensing 
lens that focuses the electron 
stream on the object. The other 
magnetic fields are placed so as to 
focus the magnified object on a 
fluorescent screen.
At first the electronic microscope 
was used almost exclusively in the 
field of natural science, but now its 
many uses to the metallurgical field 
are being investigated. At this 
point in its development, however, 
the electronic microscope is still 
primarily an instrument used for 
research. In biology it has been 
.ised to study cultures of bacteria, 
Viruses, filtrates, plant leaves and 
cellular tissues. Its chief advantage 
to the metals industry would be the 
determination of structures of 
metals previously unresolvable.
Musicians Swing 
Out For Festival
The one time each year that the 
Music Department shuts the tops 
of its pianos, puts away the vio
lins, clarinets and quite a few as
sorted tenors, baritones and bases 
has finally arrived. The occasion 
is, of course, the annual Music De
partment Party!
Not one single member can go 
unconcerned for everyone in the 
Department- must contribute to 
making the evening its usual suc
cess. Special music is written and 
skits are arranged. The cast and 
costumes are all provided by the 
musicians and what a time they 
had doing it! Can you picture the 
sedate prima donna of the Tech 
concert stage getting dirty old paint 
on her dainty hands painting scen
ery for one of the skits? This is 
one time when some of the artists 
are really put in their placeswith 
a hammer and a pocketfull of 
nails!
All of this activity will take 
place tonight in the exhibition 
room of the Arts building at 8:30. 
The admission is hut fifty cents, 
too! -This gala evening will be 
well rounded off with dancing, a 
walloping good time, and even re
freshments!
tAMi VN1IoN1 E5GI5NNo1 
m3o UNoMITN ,5 CN1NoMN
Lsgdies Sii. Retirement Next Play
Ladies in Retirement, a play 
which has been very much in the 
public eye recently, will be pre
sented by the Department of 
Drarna as its first production of the 
new year. Opening Saturday night, 
January 10, it will have eight per
formances, concluding the follow
ing Saturday night, January 17.
Reginald Denham and Edward 
Percy, the authors of Ladies in Re
tirement, are very much interested 
in the psychopathic type of drama 
of which this play is an example. 
They are well known screen writ
ers for the English cinema, and a 
movie adaptation of Ladies in Re
tirement has been made, starring 
Ida Lupino.
Miss Mary Morris, who is direct
ing the Tech production of Ladies 
in Retirement, brings to this task 
a wealth of experience, gained both 
in working with the authors them
selves and in playing the leading 
role at the South Shore Players, Cohasset, Massachusetts, during the 
summer. In 1937, Miss Morris went 
to London to take part in Sus
pect, a typical Denham 3nd Percy 
show.
Ladies in Retirement concerns 
a middle-aged spinster, Ellen Creed, 
who feels greatly responsible for 
the welfare of her two slightly de1.CARE3GI SooG
ranged sisters, Emily and Louisa. 
As^ the play opens, she has been 
living at the comfortable residence 
of an old friend, Lenora Fiske, a 
former actress. Upon her fathers 
death, Ellen brings her two sis
ters to visit to Miss Fiskes home. 
When the visit becomes prolonged, 
Miss Fiske insists that the two sis
ters be sent away. Emily and 
Louisa, however, are very happy 
in their new surroundings and try 
to influence Ellen to permit them 
to stay. The remainder of the plot 
revolves about Ellen, torn between 
her regard for Miss Fiske and her 
devotion to her helpless sisters. 
The part of Ellen calls for intense 
but subtle emotion, with violent 
outburts at times of emotional 
crisis. More than in most other 
dramas, the role demands a knowl
edge of technical control. This 
most exacting leading role is com
pletely filled by Elizabeth Root, 42, 
and Septa Sanderson, 43.
Since her sophomore year, Eliza
beth has had many starring roles in 
Tech productions. Her first lead 
To5GC5U3O o5 FRH3 L
. TRFGRC5 Y, P, B.CD3N
Christmas Chapel 
Fea lures'- Caroling 
In Fine Arts flail
Christmas carols will be sung at 
11:30 this morning in the foyer and 
hall of the College of Fine Arts. 
Today, President Robert E. Doherty 
will open the chapel service with 
a greeting to the students, and Mr. 
Henry Boettcher of the Drama de
partment. will road the annual 
Christmas story of the Wise Men.
Members of the C. M. C. A. cab
inet are acting as ushers, and the 
singing of the carols will be un
der the direction of the music de
partment. Decorations have been 
planned lor with holly wreaths and 
small Christmas trees predom
inating in the foyer and hall of the 
Fine Arts School. It Is requested 
that as many students and fac
ulty as possible be present to take 
part in the singing of the carols.
Goodman Appears 
As Concert Soloist
Benny Goodman and his Orches
tra will be featured as guest at
tractions in the second of the series 
of benefit performances for the 
Pittsburgh Symphony Society on 
Tuesday evening, January G, at 
Syria Mosque.
In the first half of the program, 
Benny Goodman will play the Moz
art Clarinet Concerto with the 
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra 
under the baton of Vladimir Bakaleinikoff. For the remaining or
chestral works, Mr. Bakaleinikoff 
has selected Offenbachs Overture, 
Orpheus in the Underworld," 
Johann Strauss Perpetuum Mo
bile, and Enescos Rumanian 
Rhapsody No. 1.
For the second half of the pro
gram, Benny Goodman and his Or
chestra will give a concert of pop
ular American music. The soloists 
who usually appear with Benny 
Goodman will be featured in this 
part of the program.
SlncSi-sal Directory
The Student Directory is now on 
sale at the bookstore. The directory 
lists the addresses and telephone 
numbers of all students, members 
and officers of organizations.
Correction: The new address of 
Tau Delta Phi Fraternity is 5931 
Walnut Street, EMerson 9424.
Snow Queen
All campus organizations that 
wish to submit a candidate for the 
Snow Queen election must give 
the name of the candidate to Wm, 
King on or before January 5, 1942. 
Any group whose membership in
cludes a coed of the class of 43 may 
submit a candidate. Each group is 
allowed but one nominee who must - 
be a member of the Junior class.
The Snow Queen will be chosen 
at an all school election early in 
February, and her coronation will, 
as in the past, be held at the Jun
ior Prom.
Physics Colloquium
The next Physics Colloquium, 
will be held January 8, when J. C. 
Mundo, Physics, 42, will speak on 
Wave Guides and Resonance 
Chambers for Micro Waves. The 
subject of micro waves is at the 
present time a very important de
fense school subject, and publicity 
in this field is being restricted to a 
certain extent. Mr. Mundo will 
explain some of the apparatus used 
in the study and application of 
Micro Waves. All interested per
sons are invited to attend this col
loquium at 4:30, Thursday, Janu
ary 8, in room 113, Engineering 
Hall.
OliVer lo Address 
Student Forum; 
Urges Enlistment
On Tuesday evening, January 6, 
1942, Captain Frederick L. Oliver, 
U. S. Navy (retired) will address 
a student forum sponsored by the 
Naval Reserve Unit. The forum 
will meet at 8:00 P. M. in room 104, 
Industries Hall, and all junior ancl 
senior engineers are urged to at
tend.
This meeting is preparatory to 
the visit which naval officers will 
pay Tech on January 15 to secure 
engineering students for muchneeded technical services in the U.
S. Navy. Under the present plan, 
students who are accepted by the 
Naval Reserve will be employed by 
the Navy in a technical capacity 
and upon graduation will receive 
their commissions as ensigns and 
go into active service. The service 
will not be with the fleet, but rath
er in a land duty capacity.
At the forum, Captain Oliver will 
discuss the work of the Naval In
spection Officer, which position he 
holds in the Pittsburgh district. 
The Pittsburgh inspection district, 
the largest of fifteen naval in
spection districts throughout the 
country and handles the inspection 
oT twenty percent of nil contracts 
and orders placed by the Navy De
partment for Industrially fabricat
ed materials. At the present time, 
the Pittsburgh district is handling 
$20,000,000 worth of orders per 
month.
The visit oC the naval officers to 
Tech In January Is similar to tho 
one made by Admiral Yarnell last 
year. At that time approximately 
fifty Tech students were admitted 
to the program, seventeen of whom 
were juniors. The seniors, upon 
graduation, received their commis
sions and entered active service In 
the engineering, ordnance, or air
craft departments.
All students who are Interested 
will fill out applications, and upon 
the successful completion of a 
physical examination and and in
terview, will be sworn in. After 
graduation, they are entitled to a 
commission. The commission is for 
To5GC5U3O o5 FRH3 L
Student Christian ' 
Association Holds 
National Assembly
The National Assembly of Stu
dent Christian Associations will be 
held at Miami University, Oxford, 
Ohio, the last of this month. Both 
the mens and womens Y cabi
nets are sending representatives to 
this conference which will be held 
from December 7 to January 3.
Mr. Rollin V. Davis, executive 
secretary of the Carnegie Y. M. C. 
A., stated that this is the largest 
student convention in this 'country 
and that in his opinion it will 
prove to be the finest and most val
uable convention ever heldbar 
none. This national assembly is 
held only once every four years 
and will be attended by delegates 
.from colleges and universities all 
over this country and also from the 
Central and South American coun
tries. Although the outbreak of! 
open warfare in the Far East will 
prevent some students from at
tending, a number of student repre
sentatives are expected from over
seas.
The subject of the convention will 
be Social Reconstruction. T. Z. 
Koo, Secretary of the Worlds Stu
dent Christian Federation, is enroute from Shanghai, China, to 
speak at the convention. Among 
the other speakers will be M. S. 
McLean, President of Hampton In
stitute, and Gregory Vlastos of 
Queens University. -In addition 
there will be student speakers and 
student-led. forums.
A number of Carnegie students 
have already signed for the trip, 
but there is still room for addition
al delegates and any interested per
sons should contact Mr. Davis who 
will supply all the necessary in
formation.
Riders Seek Drivers
Students who are planning to go 
home for the holidays but havent 
rides yet should sign up immedi
ately with the A. P. O. Travel 
Service, located in the basement of 
the Administration Building. Those 
who are driving and expect to have 
room for others should also sign up, 
so that riders can be paired with 
drivers.

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, DECEMBER 16, 1941
Why Are We Fighting?
When most of us in the post-World War generation were first 
able to comprehend any ideas or feelings, we were imbued with the 
general spirit oi cynicism and disillusionment that i'olowed the last 
war. Having sacrificed lives and money to make the world safe for 
democracy, M the realization that the world was not improved after 
the war proved a disappointment too great for many people. They 
resolved, and to a certain extent probably rightly, that war accom
plished nothing and that anyone who would go and get killed in the 
name of freedom was stupid and utterly duped.
And so today we can hear boys who are eligible for the army 
sneering at the idea that this war might be a war of freedom. Look 
at the last one, they say and vow that they will not be fooled as 
their fathers were, JSiit these wise young things, a hang-over from 
the 20s, seem to have ignored one important fact: if we ever hope 
to be able to determine a peace which will be more than a brief interude between wars, we must throw our weight in on the side with 
which we are inevitably aligned. But no, these boys cry, we helped 
win the last war and look what resulted. Yes, we might answer, 
because we failed to realize that we have as much responsibility to 
win the peace as we do to win the war.
Of course, it sounds ridiculous when we are in the midst of a. 
war to talk about our part in peace terms to follow. But somehow 
the lesson of the last war should serve to teach us that killing off 
the Germans and mopping up a few battles has no point and serves 
no purpose unless it means that we can help determine what meas
ures should be taken to be fair to each country involved, to see their 
needs and why they were driven'to fight, and to be willing to sacri" ueh in peace as we are willing to sacrifice in war to accom goal.
, / it form the world after the war should take is difficult to 
V ough some sort of collective security seems to be inevitable. 
Nevertheless, unless the peace is a Nazi-dictated peace, we, in sacrific
ing man-power and resources to keep our existence, might be able to 
accomplish the dream of most of man-kindsome sort of a fair and 
lasting peace which will be free from reparations and revenges, 
which will be truly a fair peace. But this dream will never be 
accomplished by the boys who sneer and say that it is add,maudlin 
patriotism, worthy only of fools and dreamers. The only construc
tive purpose these boys serve, and even that is debatable, is as sub
ject-material for an editorial. B. J. K.
Dr. esuoIN5 S3ccN5LNL
Because oi the pressure oi: the war news, we were unable to 
make more timely our thanks and congratulations to the Student 
Symphony Orchestra under the able direction of Dr. .1. Vick OBrien, 
for their excellent performance in the first concert of the season on 
Sunday, December 7. 1 heir rendition ol Brahms Second Symphony 
was so excellent that Fritz Reiner, conductor of the Pittsburgh Sym
phony. Ilenri Temlanka, concert-master of the Pittsburgh Symphony, 
and Vladimir Bakaleinikoff, assistant conductor of tlie Pittsburgh 
Symphony, come backstage twice during the intermission to congratulate Dr. OBrien.
In addition to the fine performance of the orchestra, the excep
tional playing of Earl Wild, a former Tech student, in the Rachman
inoff Second Piano Concerto, was one of the best bits of playing we 
have heard. We join the men from the Pittsburgh Symphony in 
congratulating Dr. OBrien and the Student Symphony on their exceptional work.  ^ j jList of Monior
'Todays issue of the TAliTAN carries a story of the death of 
Moslener (a lormer Tech sludcnf). To our knowledge lie is the 
first I cell casualty in the war. Hereafter, upon verification of the
o l .353o. 1, 0I' ll.n-von1 clso connected with the school,the I Alii AN will publish their names in the List OI! Honor.
Piny -.. Naval Officers .. .
To5GC5U3O9 4 Not iRH3 , Continued from age 1
was is Clylemncstrn in Daugh- life, but the services of the men
tors of AtreUK." During her sec- are called for only during an emeronc your here she also played a gency. It is possible however, to
major part In Ed Hunt's original apply for a commission in the regshow, No More Marriages. Her ular navy following a years active
n I8!- MVn,S 08 sei'vice- One of the big drawingMis. Ciaig in CraigN Wife. The- points for college students is the
a ter-goers tills season recall her fact that enrollment in this pro
per formance.s I n The T vv o gram release the students from
Orphans and New England Pic- the draft. Since birth certificates
l^ c, and two full-face pictures and two
1 mesU of the characters are double profile pictures are required of all
east. Albert Feather, Ellens applicants, it will behoove those
nephew, who unravels the mystery students actively interested in the
in the latter half of the play, is program to procure them as early
portrayed by Marvin Einhorn and as possible, especially since it may
Michael Sivy. Audrey Botkin and take some time to secure a birth
Adelyn Roth fill the role of Lucy, certificate.
Miss Fiskes maid. Louise Creed, Ensign Stanley Gorden, President 
Ellens abnormally morose, sister, of the Tech Naval Reserve Unit,
is played by Maxine Diamond and urges all senior and junior engiElise Cox. Emily, the other de- neers interested in securing a comranged sister, is done by Ethel Ger- mission with the Naval Reserve to
son and Cecile Stober. Marianna attend this meeting. At this sesBrown and Rye Trier are cast as sion, duties of a reserve officer
Leonora Fiske, and Maissa Forbes together with engineering opporand Anna Alexander play Sister tunities in the various branches of
Therese. the Navy will be discussed.
(ITartiecjie 3Tartau
Carnegie Institute oi Technology, Sclicnlcy Park, Pittsburgh, Pa.PHONE MAYFLOWER 2(100 PHONE SCIIENLEY 4557
BFC5Co5l 3uFN3ll3O C5 GI3 FRH3l o4 GI3 chScha RN3 GIol3 o4 GI3 t3tr
E3Nl o4 GI3 lGR44f C5 GI3 pRl3 o4 GI3 3OCGoNCR. po.Ut5 GI3n RN3 GIol3 o4 GI3 
1OCGoN, cI3n RN3 5oG Go E3 po5lGNU3O Rl 53p3llRNC.n GI3 oFC5Co5l o4 3CGI3N 
GI3 lGUO35G EoOn oN GI3 4RpU.Gn,
lia^BEOENTBO FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING DV
National Advertising Service, Inc.M e mb c r Co/lege Publishers Representative
pKsorinlod Cnllpfticile Press 420 MAD,sON AVE- 1C5AREGI 1IAION- 5 CHICAGO  BOSTON  Los AriacLES  STN UET1O3FOR
Distributor of After Office Hours Call
- niplocl Editor-in-chief......... SClienley 9070UDlleftlClie UI5GSI Business Manager...........HAzel 3898
Advertising: Manager. .SClienley 9933
Entered as Heoontl-olass matter in the Pittsburgh Post Offlce under the Act of March 3, 1811.Published weekly during school year, except holidays and examination periods.Subscription Price SI.10 per year.
Issue Editor.......................................................................................................Hill King
Btiitor-iriiCWc/ ................................................................................... Saul Moses
Business VR5RH3N.....................................................................bRNNn hENRtoDCGA
VR5RHC5H 1OCGoN.......................................................................goR553 cClI.RNCpI
a3wl 1OCGoN...................................................................................dRNERNR vNRt3N
hllClGR5G VR5RHC5H 1OCGoN.........................................................yC.E3NG, vCw5lo5
ToFn 1OCGoN.........................................................................V3Np3O3l TU55C5HIRt
ToFn 1OCGoN.....................................................................................JIn..Cl dUpItR5
FoNGl 1OCGoN...........................................................................................go3 cIotRl
hOD3NGClC5H VR5RH3N...............................................................n.DR5 Sol35 4C3.O
TCNpU.RGCo5 VR5RH3N.....................................................................CO53n y3E3.ow
GR44 hNGClG...........................................................................................1..CoGG cw3Nn
dUlC53ll GR44k 33 h5O3..R9 c3O aC3N35E3NH9 U55n PR5O3NtR59 c3O
dUNGCl9 VnNo5 xR5O3N9 g3NNn gRpoEl, 
gU5CoN 1OCGoNlk JRG 1.tR59 P3o5RNO TIoGC5pN9 SoE3NG Cuo5, dC.. vC5H9
g3R553 vC5H9 VRNCR55R boHH9 xR.G3N bR..3N9 gRpq IoN39 V3. 5nO3N, 
S3FoNG3Nlk b3.35R hNo5lo59 Rt To..C3Nl9 xR.G, RNEn9 g3R5 RDCOlo59 
bR. Cpqlo59 y3NNn 1O3.lo59 gCt y3ClG9 TIRN.3l yo3INC5H9 1O yo.Or
lG3C59 RCO yN335wR.O9 c, g, bRNtR5n9 SUGI bRUl9 gU53 v5Clq3N59 
TINClGC53 PR TICtCR9 1.RC53 P3DC59 dC.. P.onO9 n.DCR VC..3N9 aRGR.C3 
aRGIR59 hW Jol.UlA5n9 doE JoHU39 VRO3.C53 SoEEC5l9 PoUCl3 RCO9 
gUOn q33IR59 S3R Cto59 dUO c3CpItR59 o5 xRGqC5l9 o55 NRq39 
oN335 dRNNn,
one of the boys || . . Off The Cuff . .
. . . Mark Shoffner
He is known to his acquaintances 
as Mark, to his friends as 
Smiley, and' to the boys as that 
Big Coal Man from Timnlin, Pa., 
but he is really known as J. Mark 
Shoffner, just one of the boys.
He holds several important of
fices on campus: President of the 
Senior Class in Engineering, Chair
man of the Points and Keys Com
mittee, Associate Editor of the 
Scottie, and President of the Kappa 
Sigma Fraternity. Then, too, he is 
a member of Dragons and was a 
member of Delta Skull and Scimi
tars. In spite of all his duties, 
however, he always has a kind 
word and a cheery smile for every
one, a fact which accounts in part 
for his wide popularity and suc
cess in school affairs.
Mark, a Management Engineer, 
plans to do Sales Production work, 
but has nothing definite in mind as 
yet. In his executive role he has 
learned to budget his time, which 
will help him greatly later.
He feels that everyone should get 
as much as possible from school 
life, and says students will find that 
eventually extra-curricular activi
ties will mean as much to them as 
studies. Speaking of Tech, he ad
mits that he will regret leaving it 
very much, because it grows on 
you.
For relaxation Mark enjoys loaf
ing at Skibo and going to Bob Hope 
movies. He also loves dances and 
regrets very much that he is the 
Student Council member usually 
asked to work at the door. As for 
dancing itself, he is of the smooth 
school, although he likes to watch 
jitterbugging when not in formal
Harpist Makes Debut
The Pittsburgh Symphony Orches
tra will be heard again this Friday 
evening and this Sunday afternoon, 
at Syria Mosque under the baton 
of Fritz Reiner with Lucille Harri
son, the brilliant first harpist of 
the orchestra making her debut 
as soloist.
Miss Harrison will play the harp 
solos in Debussys Dances for Harp 
and Strings and in the Introduction 
and Allegro for Harp, String 
Quartet, Flute and Clarinet by 
Ravel. Dr. Reiner has selected for 
the orchestral works David Stanley 
Smiths Poem l'or Orchestra, Cre
do, the Brahms Symphony No. 1 
in C minor, and Richard Strauss 
Till Eulenspiegel.
Minutes
The meeting was cnlled to order nt 7:00
and Misses Leister nnd I-Iogg.
COMM1TTEE REPORTS
SOCIALMr. Burton moved thnt Council give the 
Citcom Clan permission to use the gym 
on the evening of March 0, 1942, for n 
seml-formnl dunce.
Motion carried.Mr. Burton moved that Council approve 
the petition of the Dragon Society to hold 
an All-School Holler Skating Party on Fri
day, February 20. 10*12. They asked that 
this date be closed to any other social 
events by any campus roup on that day. 
Motion carried.
Mr. Burton announced that the dance 
scheduled for January 10 will not be held 
This Is now an open date.
SpiritMr. Richardson asked Mr. Moorman to 
try to get some publicity for the basket
ball games-.Publications
Mr. Durbin presented a proposed amend
ment to the Carnegie Tartan Constitution. 
It will be tabled until the next meeting.
All letters to the editor shall be 
passed by the Chairman of Publications 
before being printed in the Tartan. It 
shall be the duty of the Publications 
Chairman to search these letters for 
untruths, and such portions as cannot 
be proved true are to be excluded in 
tine printing of the letter in the Tartan. 
The decision of the Publications Chair
man shall be final and there shall be 
no further appeal. Failure of the Tar
tan authorities to submit letters to the 
Publications Chairman shall subject the 
stafr of the Tartan to punishment by 
action of Council upon violation. 
Orientation
' Mr. Wines reported that the committee is 
trying to get some interesting outside 
speakers for the second semecter smokers. 
The plan for making contacts next year 
will be on a more personal basis.
OLD BUSINESS 
Miss Fleming reported that a further 
investigation was made, and it was found 
that Miss Nellis is eligible to hold her 
office as Representative in M. M. C. C. 
Senate.
NEW BUSINESS 
Mr. Wines reported that a group of stu
dents has met to discuss the advanced 
physical education program. He said that 
he believes there are other parts of the 
curriculum that could be improved, and 
students should be allowed to give their 
opinions on what courses are taught and 
how they are presented.
Miss Whitney said that Inter-honorary 
Council is trying to give the students an 
opportunity to voice any complaints 
through the "Gripe" boxes that have been 
placed around campus.
Mr. Wines recommended that Council 
appoint some students to work together 
with the faculty and the administration to 
try to work out some sort of an Appeal 
Board. to which students can bring com
plaints nnd know that some immediate and 
definite action will be taken. One of the 
objects of this Board Is to keep complaints 
out of the 'lnrtnn. Mr. Richardson said 
that he believed the members of the Interhonorary "Gripe" Committee should be 
included in the group that helps to pl>n 
the Appeal Board. He appointed Mr. 
Wines and Mr. McBride, as Student Coun
cil representatives, to meet with Dr. War
den within a week and to make out a list 
of desirable persons to have on the com
mittee.
Mr. Burton reported that he is working 
on a set of Instructions for dance chairmen. 
They will be printed on a mimeographed 
form with items to he checked when they 
have been taken care of. The form is to 
turned in to the Social Chairman before 
the dance is held.
Mr. Richardson asked that Student Coun
cil undertake an extensive program of try
ing to keep people in. school. He said that 
we shall be able to do much more good in 
that way. because the world needs educated 
men and women.
Adjournment.
Respectfullv submitted.
DOROTHY PIPER.
Secretary.
dress. Harry James and Tommy 
Dorsey are his  favorite bands, 
while football and basketball get 
his vote as the most enjoyable 
sports. His favorite event is 
Spring Carnival, emphatically! 
and his biggest thrill was when 
Tech beat Pitt in football ir. his 
freshman year.
When asked about his preference 
in girls he admitted his taste ran 
to brunettes. However, he confineshis dating mostly to playing the 
field, and this feat is accomplished 
without any help from his Buick 
convertible whatsoever.
Mark feels that there should be 
more cooperation between frater
nities and Independents, that Tech 
should have national sororities, and 
that we should support a Football 
Team.
As a final message to underclass
men he said sadly, Apple-polishing 
it just doesnt work.
To..3H3 TR5OCOl
Private Victor Golas, ordered to 
direct army convoy traffic across 
a railroad crossing until you are 
picked up stood for a day and 
night at the crossing in Baltimore 
while trucks returning from the 
Carolina maneuvers rumbled by in 
a heavy rain. Later in the night 
he built a fire, broke out his emer
gency rations and had a tin of beef 
and some vegetable stew. At the 
latest report he was still standing 
therewet, hungry, and sleepy 
while curious children' brought him 
coffee and sandwiches. Said the 
bewildered soldier: . . .1 dont 
know, what to do. I guess Ill just 
stay here.
Indiana Daily Student
The davenport held the twain,
Fair damsel and ardent swain, 
I-Ieandshe;
But then a step upon the stair,
And father finds them sitting there; 
He,. . . and . . . she.
Northeastern News
Im sorry I havent a nickel, 
said the lady as she handed the car 
conductor a ten dollar bill.
Dont worry lady, youre going 
to have 199 of em in a couple of 
minutes.
Maryland Diamondback
Saying that fur 'coats come from 
skinning dumb animals is a rather 
nasty crack at father or the boy 
friend.Ring-Fun PhiU. & L.
Esmeralda, a Jersey cow, will get 
a pleasant surprise when the man
icured hands of eight University of 
Texas milkmaid-co-eds will attempt 
to to extract as much cow-juice as 
each can in two minutes. The oc
casion is a prelude to the schools
MMCC Senate Dinner
This evening at 6:00 oclock, the 
annual Margaret Morrison Senate 
Christmas dinner will be held in the 
Union. In addition to the student 
members and faculty advisors of 
the Senate, Mrs. Yon and Dr. and 
Mrs. Watkins will be present.
Clan Holds Elections
Walt Gretzler, Management 43, 
was elected president of the Citcom 
Clan for the coming year at the 
Clans recent election.
Those . elected to the executive 
board, composed of five men and 
four women, include Jane Rugg, 43, 
Betty Jane Lloyd, 44, Norma Tessmer, 44, Louise Johnson, 44, A1 
McDonald, 43, John Heights, 43, 
Max Williams, 43, Ed Vierling, 43, 
and Jay Corbett, *44.
Don Scheline, 43, was elected ed itor-in-chief of the Citcommentator .or the coming year. Alex Rid
del, 43, is the new managing editor.
CORRECTION
The TARTAN wishes to correct 
a statement which appeared in the 
issue of November 25. The Schol
arship Cup presented to the Beta 
Sigma Rho fraternity at Carnegie 
Day exercises was awarded by In
terfraternity Council, not by Phi 
Kappa Phi as stated.
Keep your good eye peeled bn 
this Bunny Bradley-Bill Thunhurst 
duo. It really seems to be moving 
along on all four cylinders these 
days. Witness frequent meetings in 
the Beanery.
Bob Galbraith looked around 
among the local talent and really 
came through with a super date 
for the Theta Xi pledge dance. 
Maureen Dyer, alias Fishy, Sea
weed, etc., is the woman in ques
tion.
Bob Schwerin finally did what we 
have been expecting for quite a 
time now, and planted his Kappa 
Sig jewelry on Louise Phillips.
And that hardware Ruth Schaub 
is exhibiting is of the Pitt Delt 
variety.
They tell us that the Scarab who 
had a date with Audrey Botkin dur
ing the recent convention didnt 
want to go back home again. Why, 
Daddy?
Success story of the week is that 
of Don Juice Jord'ano, reported 
by some 'to be a sharp lad. We 
have word from an unimpeachable 
source that practically all the girls 
who eat in the Inn, where Jussel 
waits tables, regard him as their 
dream boy. Professor Jordano 
will deliver the first in a series of 
lectures on the subject How to 
Make Money and Women at the 
Same Time next Monday at 3:30 
in Room 145-A, Industries.
Martha Sekey is already planning
her future in national defense. 
She is thinking seriously of becom
ing an air raid siren.
We hereby list some of the cou
ples at that scrumptious Guild 
dance, bringing our column up to 
date: We saw Dottie Machesney 
with Bob Beck, Jane Musser with 
Chuck Holley, Jean Weinkauf with 
Dave Wallace, Skip Martin with 
Mid Pierce, Barbara Kramer with 
Jack Shore, Virginia Fullman with 
Earl Benz, Molly Van Ameringen 
with Johnny Stevens, Jane Rugg 
with Bob McBride, Lu Orr with 
Nelson Crooks, Betty Buckman with 
Art Burlci, and Ginny Wright with 
everybody!
The Scottie is having a tea dance 
today wherein all who buy a Scot
tie are admitted free. This seems to 
us to be the first case of generosity 
we have seen on the campus this 
year. Im a little tired from shell
ing out so many shekels for a dance 
each week, just so I can gather 
some gossip about you lads and 
lassies.
Ronnie Sandbach is really getting 
around these days; first Norma 
Squitieri, then Martha Jones, and 
now Alda Dewey. Whats the sec
ret, Ronnie?
Chuck Felmly and Jane Scott are 
a cute twosome, and they seem to be 
getting along O. K.
Well, so long everybody and be 
sure you dont do nothin over Xmas 
to rate this column because thats 
bad!
HoNAONo ho3LRTOI35 tNTN11Aoi 
93 ,cao3MN S3R5Oois1 D3oArN
By Pat
The morale of the nation and es
pecially its shock over the first de
feats suffered by the United States 
Navy, needs bolstering at the mo
ment, but the administration is so 
preoccupied with the one thousand 
and one requirements of total war 
that the mood of the country is not 
yet a subject of paramount consid
eration for officialdom.
President Roosevelt, in his superb 
address over the radio, set forth 
the essentials of the international 
situation and the need for calmness 
in the face of rumor. But the na
tion is suffiering not so much from 
lack of information as from a hasti
ly developed case of apprehension 
and lack of confidence in the navy 
and its air auxiliary.
What must be taken into consid
eration is that the fortunes of air 
warfare are fluctuating. The im
portance of air power has been con
ceded, but never to the point of ad
mitting that the air arm by itself is 
important enough to be developed 
in size and quality to an equal rank 
with the army and navy. On paper 
air power is given high rank, but
 in actual operations it is still a 
new, and from our standpoint, an 
untried force.
This may mean defeats and. re
verses at the offset, but it is the 
long-range view which Americas 
public opinion must adopt at the 
present time. Defeats are hard to 
bear, and they destroy confidence 
and spread fear, but in the final 
analysis, the airplane and the mod
ern ship are products of a mechan
ized age; and that nation or group 
of nations will win this war which 
has the steel and the aluminum and 
the mass production capacity to put 
engines and airplanes and ships into 
commission iastest and in greatest 
quantity.
Our steel capacity is ten times 
that of Japans. Americas factories 
can produce almost limitless 
quantities of engines of destruction. 
In due time the tons of explosives 
being turned out now in America 
will be transplanted by our bomb
ers over Japan and every island or 
locality which the Japanese now 
hold. What this means is the ul
timate destruction of the Japanese 
Empire. It may take years to do 
the job, but the sudden attack on 
Pearl Harbor has told the United 
States that as long as uncivilized 
elements exist which perform acts 
of treachery, there is only one 
answer. Such nations must be renUNCLE SAM SPEAKS 
The double talk js over,
The platitudes are sunk.
Discarded are the postures.
Exploded is the bunk;
A spades a spade, precisely,
Now truth is at the bat;
Theres been a big unmasking,
And I am glad of that!
The hidden knife is flashing.
The grin is now a leer.
And now I get a picture
Thats sharp and very clear;
The conversations sleazy 
Are done for finally,
Which to my way of thinking,
Is quite a break for me.
The airs no longer fetid 
With plottings and deceit;
No smiling double-crossers 
Are striking poses sweet;
The fog of deep pretendings
Has lifted; gones the sham . . . 
And after many seasons 
I know just WHERE I AM!
The fictions and the fables 
Have disappeared from view;
At last I know my false friends 
And know the straight and true; 
The oily ways have ended,
All sentiment I doff,
Im running Blinkers OiT.
There are no catlike purrings,
All subterfuge is out,
Gone is the soft, sly music
Its good to jump and shout!
The double-cross is spotted
And with its proper brand
And, boy, is it refreshing
To know just WHERE I stand!
A battles now a rattle
And when I hear its shake 
I know its no canary,
But quite a rattlesnake!
The sickening malarkey 
Is down the kitchen drain 
And Im no trusting Boy Scout . . . 
Im UNCLE SAM AGAIN!
dered powerless ever again to let 
loose the fires of war on unsus
pecting nations.
America will perhaps be on the 
defensive for several months and 
may not seem able to strike serious 
blows on the offensive. But as time 
elapses, week by week and month 
by month, the Japanese will be the 
ones to grow apprenhensive. They 
may take strategic islands now and 
even parts of the Philippines, yet 
they cannot hold them indefinitely, 
as British and American and Dutch 
sea power as well as air power is 
combined for action. One fact over
looked generally is that the BritishDutch-American fleet never has 
Had a chance to function as a unit, 
and it will take some time to de
velop the necessary coordination 
of movement and strategy between 
them. Japan knew this and struck 
first, but it is at best a temporary 
advantage. The long range outlook 
for Japan should be giving deep 
concern in Tokio today, for the 
Japanese have done the very things 
needed to stir up the American 
people and accelerate their indus
trial production to mobilize the 
mightiest air force and sea power 
the world has ever seen.
It.C&.T.C. (Iiid Sei Fser IVoa*tla
Shortly before Thanksgiving, 
Sergeant Sommers received a let
ter from a 1940 graduate of Carne
gie Tech, Lieutenant Clyde Penberthy, who is -at present stationed 
with Company F, 5th Engineers, at 
the American Base in Iceland. 
Lieutenant Penberthy, while at 
Carnegie Tech, was a management 
engineer, a member of Scabbard 
and Blade, and a member of the 
Rifle Team. He was one of the com
bination of five seniors which 
reached third place in the Regional 
Championships of the Mens Na
tional Intercollegiate Rifle Meet.
This censored letter, passed by 
the U. S. Army Examiner, Base 
No. 60, reached Sergeant Sommers 
about a week after it was mailed. 
The following are excerpts from the 
letter:
Iceland, 
November 10, 1941.
Dear Sarge:
Well Ill bet you never expected 
one of your pupils to get so lar from
Dear Old Tech, Carnegie Tech 
but here I am in Americas farthest 
outpost . . . And so far I am the 
only one here from Tech . . . Wish
I could give you the low down but
censorship is really strict . . . My
rifle shooting is at complete stand
stillI may never get back to fir
ingat black spots on paper that
is . . . This Iceland is some place.
They have only one thing here 
weather  and thats 99 44/100% 
bad. The first month here we had 
one month of rain. And such winds! 
They say it gets up to the comfort
able speed of 120 miles per hour! 
Sorry I cant mention all the things 
they dont havecant take time to 
write a book at this timebut a 
few are: wine, women and song and 
not a tree on the place, which to 
my mind seems strangest of all ... 
We are very busyevery dayin
cluding Sunday, and the work as 
a whole is very interesting. So 
thats one consolation . . .
Yours for the Service,
CLYDE.

---------------------------------------------------

9NT4 CIF rNcN5 
S4331N 9NAc
Last Friday night, the Varsity 
Rifie Team completed the Inst of its 
Fall Series of intrasquad matches. 
To the fellows competing, these 
matches are some of the most im
portant of the year, for they are 
for Lhe purpose of determining 
which of the group's will represent 
Carnegie Tech in the coming sea
son. Seniors were shooting against 
Juniors in these position matches, 
and the atmosphere was tense and 
the riflemen determined, for the 
results of the competition were to 
decide in what position each fellow 
was to shoot.
The match results were as fol
lows:
November 21
Seniors and Sophomores, 930, 
Juniors, 903.
December 5
Juniors, 903, Seniors and Soph
omores, 902.
December 12
Juniors, 918, Seniors and Soph
omores, 913.
RODGERS
DAIRY STORES
MILK SHAKES
Made from Pure Whole Milk 
for only 10c
We Do Not Use Skim Milk.

NEAREST STORES LOCATED
---AT---
395 FORBES STREET 
Near Bouquet Street
4G19 CENTER AVENUE 
Near Craig Street
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 16, 1941 THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
GIDAS
A MEliRY CHRISTMAS. . .
A MElli RYC iYAH
Y,9P mfeYECU
One Dollar and Up
GIDAS
3719 Forbes Street 1300
FOR A GOOD SHOW CALL ATlantic 9200
ROo n A*Uo*u*'
l 1IpnbIgowN }4.0 ot 1,1  tue 'voi
O" Sff". 1
U,Ud d
stc" ялл*'6
1Osi, GRN9C5v 
TWE prCi!:,0 VBL1"
A,'l4kv 
a. i- cSs;i <>*'
..THE
NAVr BLUES
Wert HL3 Y HHHHHHHHHHHHvOyJ1 Sr^~"Tfrp Car> Crani
-Si TRUTH'. 
'G--v,h veidtBLACKOUT
T--"'"1" "j6C BH 
A Dvorak 
..SCABFACE 
_also
TRAC'? 
 SKY DjNz:
_alsogpENCEB
,,P B.D
Tartan Cagers Slow to Titans 
 espite Fine Showing
deciding how to go home for the 
Holidays. Just follow the crowd  
your crowd  and youre sure to find 
yourself aboard a Greyhound SuperCoach. Or if youd rather sit down 
and figure the matter out carefully, 
logically, practically, youll end up 
the same place  for the big saving 
on Greyhounds low round-trip fares 
is a pretty effective mind-makerupper! Merry Christmas  Happy 
New Year!
CAMPUS AGENT
ANDREW B. POTTER
OneRd.
WayTrip
New York ,. .____.(10SI 1.00
Philadelphia .O.l
Detroit .............. . -1.107.0
11.00
8.00
Washington, D. C. -I.HB8.75
.... 3.7 50.75
___ n.io0.20
(MO
8.00
. , , , 0.0010.20
M9I 4Rt9N ,,,,.. . . 8,715.75
CharlBHton, W.Va. r,Mli0 Ati
Miami ..........., , , , 10.0080.15
Plus 5!Federal Tax
III IOSH HAM. 
SOhonley 007GREYHOUND
i/u i/ s
UT3oN1 CNcAI5 
PIG4 U3 mAo
The scoring is again in the spot 
light because of the differences of 
this an dother years averages. As 
mentioned last week, the average 
score of most teams was in the 
neighborhood of 15 to 20 points per 
.game. This year the average of 
ihe early contests of this campaign 
is between 20 and 25. The highest 
of these are the DUs and the Kap
pa Sigs each with an average of 33 
points per game, the former hav
ing played three games and the 
latter, two games. Next come the 
Phi Kaps who have an average of 
.30 points in three games. In League 
1 McGill and Scobell collected 30 
points in each of their two games, 
Tout Citcom came through with 31 
points in two encounters.
The high scorers on the basis of 
points scored in any, one game are:
Team
Name Team Pts Scored On
Minkel...........Phi Kap .........14.. .Henderson
Pratt...............McGill .............14...Tau Delt
Hawley.........PiKA .................13... ATO
Richardson.. Kappa Sig ____12 ..Beta
Withrow____Delt ..................10.. .McGill
MacDonald.. Citcom............10...Welsh
You trustquality
GREYHOUND
of Course
Its really not much of a problem  t '
FREEPRESSING
Wrestling Team 
Drops Opener
The Tech wrestling squad opened 
its season recently when it had a 
practice meet with Arsenal Recrea
tion Center, last years district 
champions. P. C. Bryan, R. R. McCutcheon, L. L. Frost, and W. Reid 
of Tech won their matches. In per
haps the best of the struggles, 
Douglas Dobson drew against Ar
senals ace, Joe Thompson, who has 
been a champion for five years, and 
is the present A. M. A. champion.
Those of the Tech team who lost 
were De Forest Trautman, Rhodes 
Trautman, R. L. Jaffee, W. Brooks, 
S. Dreskins, and J. Kaufman.
In spite of the fact that we lost, 
the practice meet showed Techs 
team to be quite strong. The final 
score for example does not take into 
account the fact that Jaffe was pit
ted against the state champion, and 
that De Forest Trautman weighed 
thirty pounds less than his oppo
nent.
A second practice meet with Ar
senal has been scheduled lor Jan
uary 9.
Alumni linnie
kAo1IOi hrAi1 rRc5I UxRAL 
.A5l q m3o DNc3oIAr S35ON1O
By Joe Thomas
This being the fiftieth year of 
basketballs existence, Carnegie 
Tech has cooperated with many 
other leading figures in the sports 
world to commemorate the memory 
of Dr. James Naismith, the found
er of the game, by erecting in his 
honor at Springfield, Mass., where 
the game was first played, a suita
ble memorial. This memorial will 
be in the form of a Temple of 
Basketball, containing a Muesum 
and a Hall of Fame, somewhat 
along the order of baseballs Hall of 
Fame at Cooperstown, N. Y.
Golden Ball Proceeds 
To provide funds for the me
morial, basketball teams over the 
whole country have been asked to 
designate one of their regularly 
scheduled games as a Golden Ball 
Game, some part of the proceeds 
to go to the Naismith Memorial 
Fund. Most of the teams have al
ready complied and designated the 
Golden Ball Game.
However, Carnegie Tech has gone 
a little farther. The Athletic De
partment has applied for, and has 
been granted, the necessary per
mission to add an extra game to 
the regular schedule. Although 
the team has not won any games so 
far this year, this game should 
prove to be one of the most attrac
tive on the schedule.
Admission Fee Charged 
The game will distinctively be a 
Carnegie Tech affair, in that the 
varsity will play the alumni in a
regularly scheduled game. The 
date has been set for Monday 
evening, January 5, the first day 
after Christmas vacation. An ad
mission fee of 25 cents will be 
charged everyone that comes to the 
game. A. A. cards will not admit 
the students since the proceeds are 
to go to the Naismith Memorial 
Fund. There has already been a 
large demand for tickets.
Well Known Alumni Coming:
Some of the greatest players in 
Techs basketball history will be 
back to participate in the alumni 
game. Jimmy Tumpane, Mel Cratsley, who still holds the local indi
vidual scoring record for one game, 
and Walter Whitey Loos are ac
tively engaged in local ball and are 
organizing the alumni team. Buzzy 
Greenberg, present Freshmen coach, 
will also be on the alumni roster. 
Several others who have promised 
to participate in the game are Ed
die Miller, Charley Miskevics, and 
Joe Slaminko. Stretch James, 
tallest player in Techs history has 
also promised to be on hand and 
play as long as his wind holds out. 
Gordy Combs plans to be back for 
the game. In fact, Bob Rube 
Stark has sent word that he will 
make it if he can arrange his bus
iness activities.
It is planned to make quite an 
affair out of the game, and it may 
be developed into an annual af
fair. A1 Minetti will be present to 
introduce the boys, and several 
other sidelights are planned.
Experience proves that nothing takes the place of quality. 
You taste the quality of ice-cold Coca-Cola. Again and again 
you enjoy the charm of its delicious taste...and its cool, 
clean after-sense of complete refreshment. Thirst asks noth
ing more.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY, PITTSBURGH, PA.
Last week, when Coach Max 
Hannum said that the team was not 
as bad as the score showed, he hit 
the nail on the head because on 
Saturday the much-defeated Tech 
squad narrowed the margin of their 
defeat by nearly half, and they 
were playing a veteran team at that.
The Skibo squad began to .show 
some of its talent in Saturday's en
counter with the Titans in the form 
of Bill Cogswell, Holcts who play
ed his first game of the season this 
time, and Mai inski. According to 
many, Cogswell is the best ball 
handler on the team and is due for 
a promotion to starting position. 1-Ie 
covers up his passing well by a 
varied and deceptive gamut of fak
ing.
Westminsters superior shooting 
was largely the cause for the rather 
large difference in the score. In 
the first half, the Tartans could only 
manage to get four field goals to 
the Titans ten, although the Tech 
had as many [chances to score as did 
the opponents. The Skibos nar
rowed the margin to 22-13, but 
Spak and Dunmire of the Titans 
forces sunk two field goals to bring 
the score to 26-13. Stousay bucket
ed a foul to bring the score at the 
half to 26-14.
In the second half, the Tartans 
began a much speeded-up attack, 
but the Titans managed to do a lit
tle better than keep pace. Dave 
Brinn led the foray by sinking two 
baskets early in the half making 
the score 28-18. The Titans began 
a vengeful attack after this, scoring 
eight straight points before the 
Tartans Herm I-Iennessy put one 
through the hoop. From this time 
on the contest resolved itself into 
a duel of long shots with both sides 
substituting freely. The final score 
was 53-36.
On this Thursday night Tech will 
meet the Geneva cogers on their 
floor. The Covenantors have n<?t
had an outstanding basketball team 
in some years, but this year they 
feel confident that some glory may 
fall upon the shoulders of their 
Athletic Board from its efforts in 
this sport. Under a new coach, 
Slim Ransome, the squad is learn
ing a new system, Since this is 
necessary, the outcomes of this 
seasons various contests will proti** 
ably improve as their season pro
gresses. The Covies have a sur
prisingly tough schedule this year 
with Duqucsne, Pitt, C. C. N. Y., 
Villanova. West Virginia, West
minister, W. & J. and Waynesburg 
as some of their mre threatening 
opponents.
With Geneva working under new 
leadership, the Tartans have a fine 
chance of breaking their 24 game 
losing streak in this contest. With 
the improvement shown in the last 
game and the promise of this bet
terment continuing, Coach Hannum 
may well expect that his statement 
to the press last week will become a 
gross understatement.
EOTC UNIFORMS 
SUITS AND COATS
CLEANED &
PRESSED
CASH AND CARRY
SHIRTS
LAUNDERED AND s
HAND FINISHED JL UC 
For Limited Time Only
CAMPUS CLEANERS
4609 Forbes St. Corner Craig
P3B O3 YI5 moIN5L1
in one easy lesson 
Treat yourself and others to 
wholesome, delicious Wrigleys 
Spearmint Gum. Swell to chew. 
Helps keep breath sweet, teeth 
bright. The Flavor Lasts.

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNSGIE TARTANTUESDAY, DECEMBER 16, 1941
EveningGeneral NewsSchool
Section ofEditorial Comment
TartanFraternal Organizationsarile Cartiere plaid
Appearing 
In This 
Weeks 
Issue
Post-Holiday Dance 
Fraternity Anniversary 
Engineers Dance
h31OP3rILAi uArr DAoW1 
mIo1O '-jz U3TIAr EMN5O
01(1 Tradition 
To Be Honored 
In Thistle Hall
Everybody is looking forward to 
our Post-holiday dance which is 
sponsored by council. This is one 
of our traditional dances which al
ways receives a large turnout. It 
is dated for January 10, of the new 
year, which happens to be the first 
Saturday alter the resumption of 
classes. This will help to ease us 
back into our normal grind. The 
dance is to be held in Thistle Hall, 
which is most fitting, not conflicting 
with the basketball season.
Of course there will be very 
pleasant music for dancing as coun
cil has shown excellent taste in 
their selection of bands this seasop 
and we are sure that this will con
tinue.
Semi-Formal Affair 
Our lovely ladies will have a 
-hnncc to display their latest gowns 
Cm Cp dance is to be semi-formal 
a policy of council this 
iautiful corsages as usual 
wi 11 be presented to the first two 
hundred ladies.
Greater cooperation of students 
and the social committee this year 
has brought about improvements in 
our decorations for our social af
fairs. With this in mind we pre
dict that the atmosphere of the 
dance this year will easily surpass 
that of last.
Our after holiday dance is always 
thoroughly onjoyed by everybody 
because it carries over some of the 
seasonal good cheer. It also comes 
before the students start worrying 
about their mid year exams, thus 
everybody has a good time:
The pause that refreshes is avail
able all evening at the Black Cat 
which is located on the lower floor. 
This is also a classic rendevous for 
old friends.
This dance as all sponsored by 
the evening council is priced at 'the 
usual fee of one dollar and ten 
cents, which Includes the tax. This 
should not keep anybody away.
Cultivate Friendships 
Attending this dance provides 
you with a fine opportunity to meet 
new friends at the beginning of the 
new* year, since your fellow stu
dents from all colleges number ap
proximately three thousand. Only 
by having mutual interest can 
friendship with this student body 
'be cultivated. Lets make this af
fair the common ground.
The checking service shall bo 
eiVklently handled by the loyal 
members of the social committee, 
whose work Is always greatly ap
preciated,
Dont forget the date, January 
10, for the post-holiday dance in 
Thistle Hall.
Sl Ul EVDt
hC,t9EC
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
Christmas
Holiday Spirit Will 
Prevail As Always
Until recently, there were two 
important questions uppermost in 
our minds. The one is now settled 
for we are at war, and so is prac
tically every nation in the world. 
It is an ugly thought when we 
think of the destruction that has 
already been wrought and we 
shudder to think of what may yet 
happen.
The second question presents the 
same old worrysome problem, year 
after year. What should you get 
him or her for Christmas? How 
many hours do you spend trying 
to find a solution? Anyway, youd 
better soon decide for Christmas is 
just about here.
Finally, comes Christmas Eve. 
How great is the thrill when we 
open the gifts weve received. But 
that isnt all. We listen to the 
Carols sung outside by gay groups 
of boys and girls as in years gone 
by. We see the snow outside and 
all about us is the glittering of 
lights and tree ornaments, the smell 
of pine trees and holly. Dangling . 
here and there is mistletoe, for this 
is the Christmas spirit and with it 
comes the surrounding mei-riment.
So great is the spirit of the hol
iday that it makes us forget cur
rent troubles. Momentarily we re
flect that on this day some 1900 
years ago, a star guided three wise 
men to Bethlehem where, peace
fully lying in a manger, was the 
infant who was to become the King . 
of all men. This beautiful story 
along with the rest of the Christ
mas spirit will live and continue 
to live long after man has learned 
that the origin of wars is not des
tined but made by him and his 
associates.
Huy Defense Bonds
Evening Colleges of Carnegie In
stitute are urged to do their part to 
help Uncle Sam in his hour of need 
by buying Defense Stamps and 
Bonds. A few pennies saved here 
and there will aid in building to
wards a Defense Bond, the pur
chase of which will in turn help the 
cause at this extremely serious time 
in our lives.
Do all you can to help . . . you 
wont miss the small amounts, and 
youll be amazed at the short time 
it takes in which to accumulate 
enough stamps for a bond. Do your 
part to help win the war! Remem
ber, every little bit does help.
HEY,
HEADING FOR HOME?
Sturt right nnd easy! Send your 
luggngc round-trip by trusty, lowcost -SiTRSU H'.sBOOL and take 
your train with peace of mind.We 
pick-up and deliver, remember, 
at no extra charge within our reg
ular vehicle limits in all cities and 
pri ncipal towns. You merely phone
iT3 m5TBesuLEC F F
AOI1NCV INC.
NATION-WIDE RAIL-AIR SERVICE
B-O-W-L
U9:VEt9 ueYf,tH 
9B3 fI5N1 F3o zq TN5O1
Betwoen the lionrs o 12 and  P. M.
D:CC uESet ffEU
1916 MURRAY AVENUE
L h..3nl
JAckson 0266
U9CtV ueYf,tH ffEU
? h..3nl
MAyflower 64743609 FORBES STREET
:t,kECU,9 CESCE9,et
( h..3nl
407 SOUTH CRAIG STREET (Near Forbes) MAyflower 2998
Night Engineers 
Begin To Make 
Future Plans
h55UR. dR5U3G
a3uG FNC5H xC..
d3 cw35GnK3D35GI
Now that the Engineers Christ
mas Ball is a thing of the past, the 
evening Engineers social commit
tee has eyes only for the Evening 
Engineers Annual Banquet to be 
held in the Spring of 1942. Those 
who have attended these affairs in 
the past, know the importance of 
the banquet in making the school 
year complete. Watch future is
sues of the Plaid for more high
lights on this famous social func
tion.
No definite plans have been made 
at this early date, but please rest 
assured that your social icommittee 
will give you an evening that will 
be impressed on your minds. Take 
heed now students, and reserve 6:00 
P. M. some Saturday next Spring 
for the Engineers 27th Annual 
Banquet.
Christmas Season 
Brings Vacation
No more pencils, no more 
books,
No more teachers sassy looks. 
... So runs the childhood rhyme 
that meant school was over and it 
was vacation time at last. And 
now Tech students get a short va
cationChristmas vacation.
No more pencils, no more books 
for Evening School Students begin
ning Thursday morning, December 
17, for that is the day Christmas va
cation starts; and you dont have 
to give another thought to studies 
until January 5. Nows the time to 
get some of those little extra items 
oiT your things to do list ... or 
you can just relax the whole va
cation if you care to; or, better still, 
maybe some of the gals could work 
in a little knitting for some of 
their friends in the armysocks, 
sweaters, parkas, mittensany one 
of a number of things that would 
be appreciated ... at any rate, 
make the most of it gals and boys; 
its a long time till Spring vacation.
RrNOIcN uArr 
VoAB1 So3BL 
,5 94I1OrN PArr
Lively Christmas Spirit 
Pervades Engineers 
At Annual Affair
The Engineers made a fine show
ing with their Annual Christmas 
Dance held last Saturday., night at 
Thistle Hall. There was an unusual
ly large crowd in attendance, and 
everyone seemed to be having a gay 
time. St. Nick and his helpers 
(really, Engineers in disguise) out
did themselves in the decorations 
for this dance. The hall has never 
looked lovelier with its evergreens 
and trimming in Christmas colors.
Don Palmers band did the hon
ors on the musical end, and his 
smooth melodies were a real treat 
to all. This was not the first ap
pearance of Palmer and his boys 
they have played on several previ
ous occasions at Tech affairs, and 
are no strangers to students about 
the campus. From the reception 
they received on Saturday, it prob
ably will not be long before he is 
'back with us again for another 
evening of dancing pleasure. 7
The Social Committee worked 
very hard to make this affair a 
success, and were grateful for the 
response shown in the attendance. 
A vote of thanks is extended to each 
member of the Committee for his 
good work on the -affair, and; to all 
others who so generously gave their 
time and efforts to put the affair 
over.
Final Plaid for 1941
This issue of the Plaid will be 
the last published in 1941. The 
year has been a very pleasant one 
boasting many fine social events 
complete in most details. The Plaid 
has endeavered to present the 
school news to the students in a di
rect manner.
All students are urged to make 
use of this paper since it is their 
property. The Mailbox column 
gives each person an opportunity to 
express his opinion relating to Car
negie Tech. Anyone desiring to do 
this should write to the Plaid Edi
tor, Box 353, C. I. T.
The editorial staff of the Plaid 
wishes to take this opportunity to 
wish everyone a Merry Christmas 
and a very Iiappy New and Pros
perous New Year.
R. !l 9l Sl Memoneft hb eb
d1 JhcSWBcWT
SPECIAL THIS WEEKISLYS
R- 0 T- C-Uniforms T 
Cleaned and 0*0 flMILK SHAKES
BIG ICE CREAM
SHIRTSCONES
Beautifully ^ ^ 
Laundered and 1 // 
Hand Finished A
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
TRtFUl hH35Gl qCEo W55
DeVEf
Three Stores in the
College District
SERVICE CO.5808 Forbes St., Squirrel Hill
CLEANERS & LAUNDERERS3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
3919 Forbes Street
SChenley 4313MAIN PLANT:
CALL AND DELIVERY3880 Boulevard of the Allies
e:9f,tEU
341 BOULEVARD OF THE ALLIES 
PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA
OPENING MONDAY, DECEMBER 15tli
INDUSTRIAL DESIGN
,,, R 53w RFFNoRpI
Exhibits from Carnegie Tech and 
the School of Design in Chicago 
showing students work from 
charts to finished productspaint
ings, textiles, furniture.
Open daily: 10 A. M.-5 1*. M. 
Admission, 25c 
(10c for Students)
SUNDAYS, 2-6 P. M. 
No Admission Charge on 
Sundays
NOTE: The prints and jewelry on exhibit during November may 
also be seen at the gallery through December 30th.
tR UIGcA ra4A DNcgNo1 
93 DAoW 55IMNo1Aoi
South Park Lodge 
Chosen As Locale 
For Yule Party
On December 27 the members of 
Nu Sigma Alpha Fraternity will 
convene at the Lodge, South County 
Park, Allegheny County, to mark 
up one more year of activity. Com
mencing back in 1928, when the or
ganization first started its activi
ties, down through the years, this 
function of the fraternity has been 
an annual event.
The anniversary furnishes an op
portunity for the members to as
semble and renew friendships 
which have been formed during the 
years of attendance at Carnegie. 
Often some members who have 
been out of touch with things at 
Tech are brought back into the 
swing through the medium of this 
party.
Many of the members through 
the years have assumed family ob
ligations and ties and this function 
serves to bring together the mem
bers and their wives and acquaint
ances when stories are swapped and 
some retold. It is a time of merri
ment, as the party comes during the 
holiday season when all activities 
cn the campus have been brought 
to a close for the period.
The activities are scheduled to
Plaid Staff Plans 
Swimming Party
This Wednesday, December 17, 
will be a gala and important social 
occasion for the Plaid Staff. That 
evening, a swimming party will be 
held in the Carnegie Tech Swim
ming Pool, and every staff member 
is expected to attend.
Through the busy year, the op
portunity does not often arise when 
our editorial staff can assemble 
and really get acquainted, and the 
staff and their friends are welcom
ing this chance to get together and 
have a splashing good time.
begin at 7:00 P. M. on December 27 
with a full-course dinner in the din
ing hall of the Lodge, and continuethroughout the entire evening. 
There will be a full evening of 
.frolic, fun and merrymaking.
The officers of the fraternity, to
gether with a icommittee which hasbeen selected, are working to makethis affair an event long to 'be re
membered by those who attend theparty. Members are at liberty \a 
bring their acquaintances and 
friends. There, are, no doubt, stu
dents on the campus who need just, 
a little introduction in order to start 
them working for the activitieswhich are open to them at Car
negie. The fraternity offers such 
an opportunity on the occasion of 
the anniversary party, so guests are 
welcome to join with the memberson this occasion.
The Lodge is an ideal spot for 
holding the party as it does have 
the right setting and atmospherewhich is conducive to an evening of 
good entertainment. It is not diffi<cult to locate the Lodge as it is in 
a prominent spot in the park, near 
the large swimming pool.
cI3 TRN53HC3 J.RCO
Page edited by Evening School 
Students of Carnegie Institute of 
Technology. All views or opin
ions expressed in editorial column 
are not necessarily endorsed by the 
Editorial Board of the Day School 
Staff.
News Editor 
Adeline King 
Associate Editors 
Anna June Davidson 
G. William Hurtt 
Nancy E. Lewis 
Staff
John Hopkins 
Robert C. King 
Stephen Marcinizyn 
David W. Pettigrew 
Ronald Shoff 
Emmett Shutes 
Charles Miller
C. M. Christ 
Lawrence Coates 
Chas. Frost 
Harry Gray 
Harold G. Hall 
Joe Haughney 
Frank J. Young
 a type of carrier telephone circuit  is now being 
built into many miles of Long Distance cable lines 
to increase their capacity.
Engineers at Bell Telephone Laboratories developed 
this circuit which enables two pairs of wires in parallel 
cables to carry as many as twelve separate conversations 
at the same time.
K carrier is one of the ways we have found of adding 
a lot of long circuits in a hurry to meet defense commu
nication needs. Such problems constantly challenge Bell 
System men with pioneering minds.
