The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 38 No. 19CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OP TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, JUNE 13, 1944
A.S.T.R.C. Reopens, 
Giving Pre-Induction 
Army College Training
An intensive campaign to enroll a 
maximum number of the approxi
mately 5000 high school graduates 
residing in the Third Service Com
mand who qualified in the tests con
ducted on March 15, in the Army 
Specialized Training Reserve Pro
gram, is now under way. Carnegie 
Institute of Technology has been 
chosen as one of the thirteen to in
struct the new group of ASTRCS.
At the direction of Major General 
Philip Hayes, Commanding General 
of the tri-state area which includes 
Maryland, Pennsylvania, and Vir
ginia, an opportunity is open to 
these seventeen year old high school 
graduates to voluntarily enlist in 
the Enlisted Reserve Corps. These 
invitations must be accepted before 
July 1 when this government offer 
of an opportunity to start college 
training will expire.
These 5000 eligi'bles successfully 
qualified in the tests conducted at 
high schools and colleges. More 
than 500 are already attending col
lege classes, and 550 more will start 
in July. Of the eligibles now being 
offered an opportunity to enter the 
Armys education program, many 
have expressed a preference for the 
Navys program. This, however, 
has been rigorously curtailed, and 
the Army is offering those who ex
pressed the naval preference the op
portunity to attend the Army col
leges.
To be eligible for the AST Re
serve Program, a candidate must be 
not over 17 years 9 months old on 
July 1; have successfully completed 
his high school education by July 1; 
have qualified on the Army-Navy 
Test; and have enlisted in the En
listed Reserve Corps before July 1. 
The boy may not enlist until he is 
seventeen years of age, and must 
have the consent of his parents, in
dicated by signatures of acceptance.
Depending upon their age, these 
military students will be enabled to 
get in six to nine months of their 
college training before they will 
Continued on Page 4
Eight Westinghouse Boys 
Enroll In June Class
Eight of the ten recipients of the 
George Westinghouse Scholarships 
enrolled last week with the incom
ing freshman class. They are: 
George L. Baldwin, New Canaan, 
Conn.; Clark Sloan, Nashville, 
Tenn.; Dale Wright, Amarillo, 
Texas; Richard Eschenbach, Wil
liamsport, Pa.; Thomas Hall, Ken
ton, Ohio; Vincent Prus, Baden, 
Pa.; Richard T. Huntoon, Detroit, 
Mich.; and Warren D. Helmer, Jr., 
Spokane, Wash.
The George Westinghouse Schol
arship Award is an undergraduate 
plan of cooperative engineering ed
ucation which was established in 
1938 between the Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology and the Westing
house Electric & Manufacturing 
Company.
PiDE Plans Handbook 
For August Freshmen
Fraternity Attempts 
Change In Old Bible
A new edition of the Plebe Bible 
is being prepared by Pi Delta Epsi
lon for distribution to the members 
of the Freshman classes entering in 
August. Present plans also call for 
free distribution to upper classmen. 
All students are welcome to par
ticipate in any phase of the work 
which interests them and for which 
they are suited.
Although the Bible is usually a 
purely student publication under 
the control of the Tri-Publications 
organization, the demise of that 
group lead ACAC to grant permis
sion to the journalism fraternity to 
handle publication this time. It was 
suggested, however, that all stu
dents should be able to take part in 
its preparation. The extent to which 
the Bible is a student publication 
will be controlled by the support 
which is given it.
Plans this year call for somewhat 
radical changes from the former 
stuffy style. Although traditions 
and information for Frosh will re
main, every attempt is being made 
to make the book a little more 
ffashy. The binding is to be chang
ed, and sections will be more clear
ly defined than in past editions. 
Cartoons may be added if some stu
dent Hungerford will put in an ap
pearance.
C.I.T. Branch Libraries 
To Close For Summer
During the summer term several 
of the branch libraries of Carnegie 
Tech will be closed for periods rang
ing from three weeks to a month so 
that the librarians can have vaca
tions.
In July the Social Relations Li
brary in Industries Hall and the En
gineering Library in Machinery 
Hall will be closed. The Science 
Library in the Engineering Build
ing will be closed all of August 
while the Fine Arts and Margaret 
Morrison Libraries will be closed 
from August 8 until the end of the 
month. The Main Library, Room 
240 in Industries Hall, will remain 
open throughout the summer, and 
special books from the branch li
braries will be transferred to the 
main library on request.
The Pittsburgh Playhouse 
Opens Summer Season
The popular Pittsburgh Play
house on Craft Avenue is offering as 
its current attraction The Bishop 
Misbehaves, an enjoyable comedy 
by Jackson, which will be presented 
from June 19 to July 1.
Later in the summer the Play
house will present The Plays The 
Thing, Thats Gratitude, and Dan
gerous Corner, all hilarious hits. A 
ticket for the four productions, di
rected by Robert Gill, costs $4, tax 
included.
Union Dinner Tuesday Night 
Highlights Freshman Week
Dr. Jones Welcomes 
New Men In Short Talk
Highlighting freshman week ac
tivities to honor incoming engineer
ing students, the Y.M.C.A. last Tues
day sponsored the traditional fresh
man dinner in the Carnegie Union.
Principal speaker for the occasion 
was Dr. W. N. Jones, director of the 
College of Engineering, who wel
comed the 114 new freshmen of the 
class in behalf of the school, point
ing out that the high standards of 
Carnegie Tech are to be maintained 
in spite of wartime conditions.
You may be sure, he stressed, 
that Carnegie Tech will not close 
its doors.
New Technical Staff 
Takes Over Next Issue
The Carnegie Technical staff for 
this semester, elected in a meeting 
held June 3 in 232 Industries Hall, 
will be:
Editor-in-Chief___Leonard Lerman
Managing Editor.. .Daniel Shacher 
Feature Staff: Joel Bigelman, Ed
gar Stephens, Herbert Schiller, 
Kenneth Lipman, August Binder 
Book Review Editor: Herbert
Schiller, Edgar Stephens.
Business Manager.........Dave Jones
Circulation Manager. .Paul Castner 
Advertising Manager. .Tom Farrahy
Art Editor.......................Dottie King
At the time of the elections the 
editor of the department, TechnoWings, could not be selected be
cause of manpower difficulties. The 
new staff will select one of their 
number for this important position 
in the near future.
One of the many new features 
that Lennie hopes to put into the 
new Technicals is a feature picture 
entitled What Is it? A photo
graph of some familiar object will 
be printed and awards will be 
given to the first persons submitting 
an answer to the question.
Fifth War Loan Opens
Professor Vincent G. Parisi, head 
of the CIT War Committee, has an
nounced that Carnegie Tech will 
take an active part in the Fifth War 
Loan Drive, which began yesterday. 
All those students who wish to buy 
bonds are asked to do so through 
Carnegie Tech. Subscription blanks 
may be obtained from the Cashiers 
Office in Administration Hall. The 
completed blank and a check made 
payable to the bank of the person 
subscribing is to be returned then to 
the cashiers office. No cash pay
ments for bonds can be accepted.
Carnegie Tech has not made a 
good record in past bond drives, 
but Mr. Parisi extends this message 
to all students: We hope that as 
many as possible will subscribe to 
the Fifth War Loan now that D-Day 
is here.
Other faculty members and 
guests present were Professor J. M. 
Daniels, Max E. Hannum, Dr. B. R. 
Teare, Dr. John L. Elliott, Dr. Rob
ert D. Gregg, Mr. Clarence Overend, 
Mr. J. C. McKeon, and Mr. H. D. 
Madsen.
The program was in the charge of 
Mr. Rollin V. Davis, executive sec
retary of the C.I.T. branch of the 
Y.M.C.A. and was presided over by 
Donald Worth, president of the 
Y.M.C.A. cabinet. Worth intro
duced the guests and urged the stu
dents to participate in as many ex
tracurricular activities as possible. 
He added that the Carnegie Y 
would direct any of the new stu
dents to church.
After the dinner, which was 
served on the terrace, the welcom
ing program was held, including, in 
addition to Dr. Jones address, talks 
by several of the guests and the 
singing of school songs in order to 
familiarize the students with them.
Dr. Jones, in his address, ex
plained the semester system to the 
new freshmen, disclosing that the 
courses offered under the new plan 
would more closely correspond with 
the regular program of Carnegie 
Tech, and would replace the sys
tem following the Army Specialized 
Training Program.
A.P.O. Elects New 
Pres., Jerry Brickman
Last Thursday, June 8, at its sec
ond formal meeting of the current 
semester, Alpha Phi Omega elected 
its officers for the remainder of the 
present semester. The new presi
dent is Jerry Brickman; vice-presi
dent, John Schultz; treasurer, Dave 
McMahon; and secretary, Joel Bigel
man. The faculty advisers for the 
coming semester include Prof. Rob
ert Gregg of the History Depart
ment, Prof. Kent Schaffer, Mr. Eyman and Prof. Dennison of the Elec
trical Engineering department.
Plans are being made for a lively 
semester as far as the chapters ac
tivities are concerned. This week
end will see Alpha Phi Omegas 
first affair, when the chapter plans 
to go on an overnight camping trip 
to a neighboring scout camp.
There will be a meeting this 
Thursday afternoon in room 229B, 
Industries Hall, at 5:00 p. m. and all 
new freshmen are urged to attend 
the meeting.
Tech Activities Need 
Live-Wire Members 
Go Out!

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
v
TUESDAY, JUNE 13, 1944
dto AnmcUai/i
A Prayer For The Invasion
Our Father; in these fateful days we bow our heads to pray to Thee, 
for we realize our weakness and helplessness without the comfort of Thy 
aid and support. We have erred, and we have denied Thee, but now we re
turn to Thy fold, for we are in need.
Forgive, Oh Lord, our wicked means of bloody warfare, for our aim is 
good. Grant us Thy support so that we shall be able to materialize this 
aim, the establishment of a just and lasting peace, granting liberty and 
equality to all men. We need Thy wisdom for this; for we are blind and 
ignorant. Make us realize, Oh Lord, that before Thine eyes each of us, 
Christian and Jew, Negro and white, German and American, is equal 
equal in weakness, equal in human sins, and equal in the need of Thy sup
portand that Thou will judge us by our personal actions alone, not by 
our appearance and our background. Open our eyes to the benefits of 
altruism; teach us to realize that by aiding our neighbors we are aiding 
ourselves.
We invoke Thy aid also to end our horrible means soon, with the least 
cost of blood and sorrow. Protect the boys of the United Nations, so that 
they may live to establish and promote a peaceful world; and, in Thy 
heavenly wisdom, guide the course of this war so that our enemies shall 
be subdued with the least cost of their lives also, in order that we, with 
Thy help, may teach them to live in harmony with themselves and their 
neighbors.
Thou art our shepherd, we shall not fear. Amen.
E. A. L.
The Outlook .  .
The Problems Of The Peace
By Professor Norman H. Dawes 
(Continued From Last Week)
MilUa'uf' Qditan. Sfzeabi
As presumptuous as it may seem to champion the case of the Amer
ican people, the accusations of Mr. Garrison which appeared in this 
column two weeks ago must be answered, and in some measure refuted.
To accuse the American public of submitting to a desire for sensual 
pleasure to the exclusion of all intelligent and mature thinking is unfair, 
and far too general to remain unchallenged.
Yes, there are too many, unfortunately, who place their own com
fort and well-being above all else and have no realization of the sig
nificance of world events. These people will not be forgotten, nor will 
their words and deeds, boldly flaunted in the faces of self-sacrificing cit
izens, overlooked when we are once again at peace.
Are we to believe, as Mr. Garrison suggests, that the only kind of 
suffering is physical, and that without trial by fire we will emerge again 
a conglomeration of shallow, sensual individuals, each trying to glut him
self on transient pleasures? This idea is misconceived, but even if it were 
true, let us remember the three million men who are at this moment be
ing systematically plunged into the worst kind of hell. Shall not their 
suffering qualify them as sober, mature members of what we are be
ginning to think of as a world state?
But this is not the case. They also suffer who only stand and wait. 
Thus, we can be assured that Mrs. Sullivan, when notified of the loss of 
five sons in action, had no thoughts of all the comforts that 50,000 dollars 
would purchase. Mrs. Kelly refused to move from her modest home for 
the return of her hero son. Was it a publicity stuntor could she possibly 
know love of home and family? Last week was the big moment, invasion, 
D-DayIT. Ask the man on the street, the soldiers in training, the wives 
and mothers what they think of IT. Will their answer be an optimistic 
opinion on how soon they could be through with this nasty business. No, 
Mr. Garrison, each and every unselfish American knows that on this day 
our sons, husbands, brothers, and buddies may be right in there getting 
theirs, nowthis minute!
Let us not lose faith in the American people as a whole because of the 
barefaced, shameless, unpatriotic attitude of some of us. Let us remember 
instead that those who gave their blood, both here and abroad, bought 
and kept bonds and worked whole heartedly for the successful conclusion 
of war will not stand by and let their dreams be trampled under foot. They 
will have their say, and whatever they say will be said with wisdom and 
dignity.
H. W. S.
Opinion* expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the ttaff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Carnegie Imtltate of Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh IS, Pa.
PHONE MATFLOWEE MOO PHONE BCHENLET 007
MNHTto roa national vmtiwm mr ,,National Advertising Service, Inc. Af*r offlM Houre CaUCr/itft PmUhbtn IXsprtttnutim Editor-in-Chief ..............................EM. t424
480 AVI. Niw A.STR h. t. Business Manager...........................EM. 9424
CttflCABO * BotlOfl * LOS AWBBLS# * tAI TMifllfO
Enter an aeeen-aaaa matter In the Plttibifgh Pact Office under the Aet of March S, 1171, Piklhhtl weekly daring eehaal year, except holiday* aad examination periods.
Sabaeriptlon Prtee IUI par year.
Editor-in-Chief ......................................................................................... Ernie Lowenstein
Military Editor ........................................................................... Pfc. Harvey W. Sherman
Business Manager .......................................................................................   Marty Zanger
Managing Editors........................................................................Adeline Herlick, Al Perry
News Editor ................................................................................................. Jerry Brickman
Copy and Headline Editor..............................................................................Clara Herron
Sports Editor ........................................................................,............... Harold Gottesman
Circulation Manager ........................................... ........................................ Chet Feinberg
AST Circulation Manager   .................. .............................................. Pfc. Chuck Pettis
To believe or to hope that an effi
cient world state will emerge within 
a brief period would be unrealistic 
and positively dangerous. Years of 
trial and error will have to be ex
perienced before a workable global 
state evolves. In the meantime 
problems of the moment will press 
for solution. It is to bridge the gap 
between the immediacy of the pres
ent and the long-run requirements 
of the future that I urge the wisdom 
of entering into a temporary alli
ance with Great Britain, Russia, and 
China.
Whether we like it or not we are 
bound up with Great Britain and 
she with us. By reason of language, 
literary association, general similar
ity of economic life, likenesses in 
democratic aspiration, and strate
gical reliance one upon the other 
for mutual safety in the Atlantic 
world, the two nations need each 
other. For that reason each of the 
modern conflicts since 1898 has wit
nessed the United States and Great 
Britain standing together in fulfill
ment of a tacit alliance about which 
Walter Lippman has written so 
brilliantly. Candor forces us to rec
ognize that misunderstandings have 
arisen in the past and will arise in 
the future. Our relations with 
Great Britain from 1919 to 1939 
were troubled. We kept out of the 
League while Great Britain enter
ed, with the result that the British 
felt we had reneged in regard to our 
world responsibility. We raised 
tariffs; the British retaliated. Senti
ments of hostility arose as to which 
country should have the larger 
navy and merchant marine. Rivalry 
for the markets of South America 
as well as deep-seated controversies 
over war debts, currency, and bank
ing controls weakened the commun
ity of interest which the United 
States and Great Britain had cre
ated in a common effort against the 
foe. As in the past, so in the fu
ture the Americans and the British 
will argue, call each other bad 
names, and imperil hopes for world 
amity. As soon as the present con
flict is concluded, the wrangling 
will begin. Each will try to out
strip the other in air transport de
velopment. The British-Dutch rub
ber cartel will inevitably be in com
petition against the American syn
thetic rubber industry. Controver
sies over the oil of the Near East, 
over air bases in the West Indies, 
and differences of opinion about re
payments under the Lend-Lease 
plan will offer English and Ameri
can officials more than one head
ache. There are hard feelings in 
British circles over our as yet unex
plained policy toward DeGaulle, 
while devoted believers in democra
cy in our own country dislike Brit
ains policy with regard to India and 
Hong Kong. Now it is a matter of 
record that the German, Italian, and 
Japanese leaders did not compre
hend the true nature of the differ
ences between America and Great 
Britain after the last war. It was not 
understood by the totalitarians that, 
though the two nations might quar
rel, yet in a great emergency they 
would come to each others assist
ance. If apparent disagreement be
tween the English-speaking nations 
encouraged aggression by peace dis
turbers in the past, it might do so in 
the future. Lest apparent differ
ences should be construed to mean 
basic hostility, the tacit alliances 
should be transformed into an open 
alliance which would give pause to 
the Caesars of tomorrow. In these 
circumstances a simple agreement 
between the United States and 
Great Britain to consult one an
other on all problems of mutual 
concern and to regard an attack 
upon one as an attack upon the 
other would exercise a profound 
stabilizing influence. Such alliance 
need not be permanent; it could 
and, I believe, should be made ef
fective but for a limited period, say 
ten or twenty years, at the end of 
which time it could either be re
newed or set to one side in accord
ance with whether or not a new in
ternational organization has achiev
ed power and standing.
So powerful are the forces 
which divide the United States and 
Russia one from the other, that 
many people believe it impossible 
and undesirable for the two coun
tries to enter into a post-war alli
ance. There $re, in truth, many 
points of antagonism, for the Rus
sians have done things that we dont 
like and, strange though it seems, 
we have done a number of things 
that the Russians dont like. To a
Continued on Page 4
.. ACAC Minutes..
Forty-sixth Meeting.
June 7, 1944
The meeting was called to order at 7:20 p.m.
Present: Messrs. Bokman, Marcus,
Robbins, and Vaughan; Misses Barclay, Rial, and Bloom.
COMMITTEE REPORTS 
Publications
Mr. Bokman reported that there would 
be a meeting of the Publications Comonittee next week.
Athletics
Mr. Robbins read the minutes of the 
Intramural Board meeting of April 18 
and moved that they be accepted.
Motion carried.
Mr. Robbins also reported that the 
soft-ball schedule was well under way. 
He announced that there would be a 
meeting of the Intramural Board on Fri
day, June 9, at five oclock to discuss 
plans for reorganization of the Board. OLD BUSINESS
It was decided that Mr. Festenstein 
should draw up and present a budget for 
A. C. A. C. for the year 1944-45. Budgets 
for the following organizations are still 
outstanding: Mens Glee Club, Womens 
Glee Club, Cwens, Interhonorary Coun
cil, and Womens Guild. These groups 
are urged to submit their budgets promptly.
Miss Rial read the petition from Pi 
Delta Epsilon requesting permission to 
publish the Student Handbook for the 
year 1944 only. Thereafter the Hand
book is to return to its status of an allschool publication.
Motion carried.
It was decided that there would be no 
reorganization of A. C. A. C. until fall. 
NEW BUSINESS
Miss Bloom moved that A. C. A. C. 
meetings be held on Tuesday evenings at 7:30.
Motion carried.
Miss Rial suggested that A. C. A. C. 
sponsor an all-school dance to be held 
sometime in June. No definite plans 
were made.
Adjournment,
Respectfully submitted,
SALLY BLOOM, 
Secretary.

---------------------------------------------------

even more names to add to its serv
ice list when a large number of the 
Seniors enter the Merchant Marine 
for a hitch of sea duty as wipers.
Exchanging the classroom for the 
cockpit of an Army Air Forces 
training plane, ex-students from col
leges and universities throughout 
the nation received their wings May 
23, in graduation ceremonies at the 
eleven Central Flying Training 
Command advanced schools of the 
AAF Training Command.
Fighter pilots were graduated 
from Eagle Pass, Aloe, and Foster 
Fields at Victoria and Moore Field 
at Mission, all in Texas. Receiving 
their wings as bomber pilots were 
graduates at Blackland, Waco; Ell
ington Field, Houston; Brooks Field, 
San Antonio; Lubock and Pampa, 
all in Texas. Tech graduates scored 
heavily; following is a list of those 
who received their commissions.
Second Lieutenant Emil J. Martineck, Second Lieutenant Paul C. 
Simon, Second Lieutenant Richard 
E. Parrish, Second Lieutenant Vin
cent J. Dobos, Second Lieutenant 
Ernest W. Kovaly, Second Lieuten
ant Luther W. Stear, Jr., and Sec
ond Lieutenant Lea S. Korpanty . . .
. . . And here is something which 
might be of interest to the women 
on the Tech campus as well as to 
the wolves. Judy Skeehan, who 
was elected Senior Queen last De
cember is now an Ensign in the 
Waves. :
RODGERS
DAIRY STORES
MILK SHAKES
Made from Pure Whole Milk for 
only 15c
We Do Not Use Skim Milk.

NEAREST STORES LOCATED
------AT------
3905 FORBES STREET 
Near Bouquet Street 
4619 CENTER AVENUE 
Near Craig Street _________________________
2nd Lt. Lea S. Korpanty
Founded by Lieutenant John 
M. Dalenz, USNR and Marine 
Second Lieutenant R. E. Turner as a 
means of diversion from daily 
routine, classes are open to all per
sonnel and offer students an oppor
tunity to escape the monotony of 
service life at this isolated outpost 
by entering a period of study that 
will prove beneficial both now and 
after returning to civilian life.
The college, of which Lieutenant 
Dalenz is president, was the first to 
open. However, its space and num
ber of instructors proved inadequate 
for the number of applicants, so the 
university was born. Classes meet 
in the mess hall three nights a week 
and consist of a forty-five minute 
lecture, followed by a fifteen-min
ute period. Many classes, however, 
continue long after closing time. 
Marines, sailors, and Seabees atLei's go to
ISALY'S
MILK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM C01NS
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the College 
District 
6808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland 
MAIN PLANT: 
8880 Boulevard of the Allies
TUESDAY, JUNE 13, 1944__________ ________ __________THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
2nd Lt. Ernest E. Kovaly 
tending the classes find that their 
own officers and enlisted men are 
unexpectedly adept as instructors.
They offer a curriculum that in
cludes elementary and advanced 
mathematics, business law and inVd in KhcJzi . . .
Have a Coke=Its gey braw
... or celebrating a Scotch ship-launching
Have a Coke is the invitation your American sailor uses to cele
brate an occasion or to greet and make friends. Its a phrase of 
friendship that is heard wherever American is spoken. In many 
lands around the globe, Coca-Cola is spreading the custom of 
the pause that refreshes,his become a symbol of refreshing good 
will ost as it is when you serve it at home.
? BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY, PITTSBURGH, PA.
2nd Lt. Vincent J. Dobos
vestments, human biology, book
keeping and accounting, practical
By Jerry Brickman
Coca-Cola
It* natural for popular names 
to acquire friendly abbreviations. That's why you hear 
Coca-Cola called Coke.
English, elementary chemistry, Pa
cific geography and current events, 
public speaking, and French and 
Spanish. Diplomas will be awarded 
to students successfully completing 
a course.
. . . All of which just goes to show 
that formal education does not ne
cessarily come to an end even in the 
jungles and swamps of the South 
Pacific . . .
Not so long ago the Tech R.O.T.C. 
which had returned from its basic 
training was studying hard to finish
2nd Lt. Luther W. Stear, Jr.
its education and be eligible for 
commissions in the Army. These 
men, numbering about sixty, left 
Tech in May 1943, returned under 
the A.S.T.P. in October 1943, and 
part of this group were then trans
ferred to the Officer Candidate 
School of the AAF. They have now 
graduated and have been commis
sioned in the Air Corps. The men 
are: Robert F. Chesarek of Pitts
burgh; Charles R. Frownfelter of 
Pittsburgh; Bill Gabig, Evans City; 
Pa., John Guthrie, Edgewood, Pa.; 
Robert Lewis, Pittsburgh; Bill Mc
Intyre, Pittsburgh; Earl Obringer, 
Pittsburgh; Phillip Rose, Pittsburgh; 
George Tankosich, Duquesne; Hen
ry Rosenblum, Youngstown, Ohio; 
and Edwin Anderson of Rockford, 
Illinois . . . After graduation in two 
weeks, Tech will probably have
In addition to the reports which 
come into the Tartan office regular
ly each week from the War Depart
ment giving the usual data on for
mer Tech students, occasionally an 
item outside of the usual vein of 
news rolls in. Something which the 
Marine Corps sent in this week is of 
such interest . . . Somewhere in the 
Marshall Islands American forces 
on two islands now trudge to classes 
six nights a week at a college and 
a university which claim the dis
tinction of being the first institu
tions of learning on captured preV

---------------------------------------------------

4TH, CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, JUNE 13, 1944
One of
His Biggest
When the Senior class graduates 
the end of this month, many of the 
last shreds of campus tradition and 
most of the important figures in our 
recent attempts at campus life will 
depart with it. One of the boys 
most missed in the echoing halls of 
Industries and the barren wastes 
of the Cut will be Nick Yaru, bet
ter known to most of the guys and 
gals at Skibo as the man who 
walks the DU dog. Since Nick is 
rather tall, silent type and was not 
exactly anxious to impart informa
tion on himself, most of the data 
published here was obtained from 
none other than Eric himself.
Although Mr. Yaru wont admit 
it, he has all the qualifications of a 
very BMOC. He is president of only 
three of the major organizations on 
campus: Delta Upsilon fraternity; 
Eta Kappa Nu, the honorary fra
ternity for Electrical engineers; and 
the campus chapter of the Ameri
can Institute of Electrical Engi
neers. Inter-Honorary Council re
cently elected him vice-president of 
their organization, and he is a mem
ber of the Freshman Orientations 
Committee and served on last se
mesters Spring Carnival Commit
tee. Along with his more academic 
activities, Nick somehow seems to 
find plenty of time for riding his 
favorite hobby horse, college sports. 
He played right tackle on the first 
string for Carnegies struggling 
football eleven last year and has 
been a member of varsity soccer 
and track teams as well. In intra
mural athletics he has been active 
too, participating in many softball 
and basketball games. In recent 
months, Nick has even slung the of
ficial whistle around his neck and 
refereed a game or two. He likes 
swimming and baseball, plays a bet
ter than average game of Canteen 
bridge, and likes to dance to swing 
Milkman Keep Those Bottles 
Quiet being his favorite tune at the 
moment. Believe it or not, he has 
time to go to school occasionally too.
Nick seems to think Carnegie 
Tech is pretty much all right, and 
he goes on record as saying that he 
disagrees with anyone who thinks 
there are no nice girls on campus. 
Hes met a lot of swell gals here in 
his three years at Tech. He likes 
the profs too, and hates to think of 
leaving all the friends hes made in 
the Electrical department and at the 
frat. Ah yes, one thing more while 
were throwing bouquets, Nick con
siders Carnegies Spring Carnival 
Queen, Lois Frishcorn to the frosh, 
very sharp. The ideal woman for 
Mr. Yaru, while were on the sub
ject, will be about five foot four 
inches tall, have brown eyes and 
any color of hair. She need only be 
a fairly good dancer provided that 
she can carry on a pleasant conver
sation. As far as people in general 
go our senior likes practically every
body, but Eric is his best friend. In 
fact the only thing Nick really hates 
is that awful feeling you get when 
you flunk a test.
In talking of leaving school and 
of the memories he will take with 
him, Nick recalled the time when, 
clad only in shorts, he unwittingly 
crashed a merry little co-ed party
the Boys
Nick Yaru 
ConquestEric
on one of the upper floors of the 
frat. The grand times the squad 
had on football trips will stay with 
him a long time too. He says hell 
never forget those juicy steaks and 
the wonderful treatment that Carf 
negie gave the boys. After the war 
Nick would like to see a lot of cam
pus activities at Skibo once again, 
and he hopes for some really good 
subsidized teams that can beat Pitt
and any other second rate college at 
football.
As soon as he becomes an alumnus 
at CIT Nick and a bunch of the boys 
are going to take a real rest from 
the college grind with a few weeks 
of vacation just swimming and 
sleeping on the lake-shore in Can
ada. He doesnt expect to crack a 
book for a month. Later if the draft 
doesnt get him, Yaru plans to get 
a job with one of the aircraft com
panies or with Dupont. If he does 
as well for himself after graduation 
as he has done here on campus, hell 
be one of the big men in American 
engineering before too many years 
go by.
A.S.T.R.C, . . .
Continued from Page 1 
actually enter the Army to take 
their basic training, and if their 
scholastic record is high, in certain 
instances, they will be returned to 
continue their college studies.
If the successful candidate was 
born between October 1, 1926 and 
January 1, 1927, he will be able to 
complete two terms (six months) of 
training. If born between January 
1, 1927 and July 1, 1927, nine months 
training or three terms are a possi
bility. No AST Reservist will be 
called to active duty until he is 18 
years old.
Under the Reserve Program, those 
selected will have an opportunity to 
receive basic college training that 
will be important to the Army and 
in building a foundation for the 
post-war period. The students are 
in uniform and receive free tuition, 
housing, subsistence and the med
ical care normally provided by a 
college.
Out of the twenty-three colleges 
in the Third Service Command now 
conducting Army Specialized Train
ing, only 13 have been designated to 
teach the Reserve Program.
Outlook...
Continued from Page 2 
great many Americans, Russias 
course of action has been dubious. 
Her attack upon Finland, her rapprochment with Germany in Aug
ust 1939, and her failure to declare 
war upon Japan are evidences to 
some that Russia is no knight in 
shining armor with sword uplifted 
against aggression. The practices 
of the Communist Party iri and be
yond Russia cannot be reconciled to 
that phase of democratic ideology 
which espouses respect for individ
ual and minority rights. Russias 
interest in securing territorial saf
ety in the Baltic region, in eastern 
Poland, and in the Balkans give 
Wilsonian lovers of self-determina
tion uneasy moments. Perchance it 
is the apparent bad diplomatic man
ners of the Russians which has 
caused most of the suspicions in this 
country. Aid from Lend-Lease was 
acknowledged only under pressure. 
Criticisms of our failure to open a 
second front, though understand
able, took into account neither the 
enormous difficulties involved there
in nor the dread consequences were 
a second front to be opened pre
maturely and fail. The abrupt 
withdrawal of the Russian am
bassador, criticisms of the Pope, and 
statements to the effect that our 
Italian campaign was not of great 
importance, all tended to strengthen 
the hand of the professional hate 
Russia crowd.
By putting the shoe on the other 
foot we can readily see, however, 
that Russia has reasons for being 
critical of us. Until the recent 
opening of a front in France, we en
gaged only a handful of German di
visions along the periphery of 
Europe. Russia in the meantime 
was bearing at least two-thirds of 
the total weight of the Reichswehr. 
Some of Russias fairest provinces 
were devastated, >ver five million 
casualties were experienced, and 
untold millions of captive civilians 
were taken away into industrial 
slavery. The Russians, moreover, 
look upon our French policy with a 
jaundiced eye. It is no wonder that 
they so do. They cant understand 
why we withhold full diplomatic 
recognition from De Gaulle and the 
Committee for Free France, why a 
Russian diplomat was denied a 
visa to Algiers to consult with Free 
French officials, why we made 
deals with notorious anti-Semites 
and totalitarians like Peyrouton, 
and why we espoused so heartily 
General Giraud who stated pub
licly last November in Ottawa that 
National Socialism in Germany had 
magnificent accomplishments to its 
credit. An additional source of 
perplexity to the Kremlin has been 
our appeasement of Franco. It has 
seemed utterly incomprehensible 
that we have sent supplies to the 
avowed friend of Hitler and Mus
solini, the virulent opponent of 
democracy, and the organizer of the 
Blue Division which helped the 
Germans in their assault upon Rus
sia. Our determination to domin
ate the Pacific at the end of this war 
disquiets Russians as much as Rus
sian determination to control the
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St HA. 0193
eastern Baltic and the general vi
cinity of the Black Sea alarms a 
great many Americans.
While neither Russia nor the 
United States appears to the other 
as garbed in the robes of saintli
ness, there are forces which pull the 
two countries together into common 
friendship. Those forces, I submit, 
are stronger than the separating 
tendencies. The Russians have dis
covered that they need our friend
ship and very real assistance. By 
the acknowledgment of Stalin him
self, Russia would have lost the 
crucial battle of Stalingrad were it 
not for the timely arrival of LendLease supplies. Without the ap
proximate four hundred thousand 
casualties inflicted on the German 
in Africa, to say nothing of Italy, 
the Russians would have been even 
more sorely pressed than they were 
in 1941 and 1942. We have discov
ered, on the other hand, that we 
need Russian friendship and as
sistance as much if not more than 
they need ours. The Russian ixiilitary accomplishment and its bene
ficial consequences for us need no 
extended description. Without Rus
sian victories in the Volga Valley, 
the Caucasus Mountains, the Cri
mean Peninsula, the Donets Basin, 
and the Ukraine, our present inva
sion of Europe would be if not im
possible at least much more costly 
than otherwise.
Apart from mutual need for the 
present, Russia and the United 
States are impelled to joint accord 
by enlightened self-interest. Both 
have adequate land resources and 
population. Neither has anything of 
a material character that the other 
could profit from by seizure. Above 
all, were the two nations to drift in
to hostiliy and then into war against 
each other the destruction would be 
so fearful as to defy description. 
War between the two greatest pow
ers in the world would most surely 
drag all civilization down into a 
common ruin. The Moscow conver
sations of Hull and Molotov as well 
as the Teheran agreements were 
valuable beginnings for the crea
tion of a mutual trust which would 
be deepened and strengthened by a 
post-war continuation of our pres
ent alliance with Russia.
(To Be Continued)
rort Pitt is the Place 
to Rent
TYPEWRITERS
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
