The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 36. No. 16CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, JANUARY 26, 1943
[ Accelerated Program Expanded, 
Includes All Engineering Students
Pictured above are three of the Cwens trying to high-presure Captain James 
Layton into buying a ticket for the Soph Hop. The wearers of 45 are Peggy Cole, 
Helen Robinson and Janet Armstrong.
Cwens Instill Hop 
With Spirit of 45
Continuing their plans for a big
ger and better Soph Hop, the Cwens, 
womens sophomore honorary, have 
uncovered a unique publicity cam
paign. If you have noticed an over
abundance of 1945 numerical sweat
ers, it isnt a coincidence. Along 
with the spirit of class of 45 the 
Cwens have adopted the sweaters 
for their campaign. In the past 
week, the girls have also distribut
ed celluloid capsules with dance ad
vertisements enclosed, and yester
day topped off the fireworks with 
the singing of the following song to  
the lucky Beanery world to the 
tune of the Strip Polka. The words 
are by Prissy Dodge.
At the grand old Gymnasium 
Where the kids love to dance 
Chester Walters will swing out 
While they strut and prance.
Now, the date is the 30th 
And the hour is at nine,
Be there, and have a lovely 
time!
Soph Hop, best of them all 
Soph Hop, give her your call 
Youll find shes in your arms 
Giving out with all her charms.
ChoYus
Squeeze her tight, pull her hair, 
drag your girl to the Hop. 
Hold her up, brace her feet, so 
you dont let her drop,
Run her there, walk her there, 
get her there anyway,
And a buck forty-five is all you 
pay!
That buck forty-five (tax includ
ed) is also in the spirit of the class 
of 45; the tickets may be obtained 
from the Cwens, the Delta Skulls, at 
the door, and especially in the front 
of the Administration Hall from 
11:30 to 1:30 today. Helen Robin
son, president of the honorary, is 
chairman of the dance; and Janet 
Armstrong is head of the Decorat
ing committee,
Freshmen Matriculate 
Without H. S. Diploma
Setting a new procedent, seventyone engineering freshmen have en
tered this semester without having 
previously graduated from second
ary schools. An experiment in war
time education, this accelerated pro
gram will enable students to begin 
their vital engineering training eight 
months ahead of peace time sched
ule.
Under the sponsorship of the 
Pennsylvania Department of Public 
Instruction, Carnegie Tech has step
ped forward as one of the nations 
first schools to admit students on a 
basis of three and one half years of 
high school credit. Thirty-two of 
the freshmen comprise a special 
group, which under normal circum
stances would not have graduated 
from high school until June, 1943. 
Upon the successful completion of 
their freshman year at Carnegie, 
these students will be awarded 
either certificates or diplomas upon 
their secondary schools. Fully real
izing the handicap under which 
these students are laboring, the var
ious departments are attempting to 
segregate them into separate sec
tions where they will be able to re
ceive instruction to compensate for 
the loss of a half year of formal sec
ondary education.
Due to Carnegies early spring 
registration, thirty-nine students 
were forced to enter before their 
high school commencement exercis
es, which are normally held the last 
week in January. In addition to 
carrying a full college program, 
these students have been forced to 
take final examinations at their re
spective high schools.
Although it is necessary for those 
students entering this spring to com
plete a years R. O. T. C. training in 
one semester, those freshman who 
have not obtained diplomas certify
ing to their completion of a fouryear secondary education, will not 
be eligible to enlist in any of the 
Army or Navy Reserve Corps.
Techites Give Blood 
To Red Cross Drive 
Week of February 8
For six days beginning February 
8, the mobile unit of the Red Cross 
Blood Bank will be on the Carnegie 
Tech campus to take the donations 
of all students who offer their blood. 
Prior to this date, every student on 
the campus will be contacted and 
given a release and pledge card. 
Both cards, with the release card 
signed by the students father or 
legal guardian, must be handed in 
to the respective school offices by 
January 29, to allow time for ap
pointments to be made. Those stu
dents who had release cards signed 
before the first blood drive will be 
required to hand in new ones before 
offers to donate blood in this drive 
will be accepted.
Prof. Vincent G. Parisi, chairman 
of the drive stated that since the 
two daysj;hat the Blood Unit stayed 
on campus when it was here in De
cember were not enough to accept 
the donations offered, we have ar
ranged to keep the unit here six 
days this time. We must see that 
there will be enough volunteers to 
meet our quota of 1,000 pints of 
blood. Every student who is phys
ically able to do so must realize that 
it is his duty to donate his pint of 
blood.
Before donations are taken, all 
volunteers will be given physical 
examinations; if their health does 
not measure up to standard, their 
blood will not be taken. Those stu
dents who gave blood during the 
first drive thirteen weeks ago, need 
have no qualms about repeating 
their offer for donations may safe
ly be repeated every six weeks.
Carnegie Tech Forms 
Victory Speaker Group
Under the supervision of Dr. H. G. 
Schrickel and in cooperation with 
the U. S. Offices of Education and 
War Information, the C. I. T. sub
committee on American Unity has 
organized a Victory Speakers Bu
reau. The Bureau is composed of 
several groups which will discuss 
the current war issues and problems 
of the United Nations.
Present plans of the subcommit
tee, composed of Professors Chap
man (Chairman), Lawler, Rosenbach, and Schrickel, are to break 
the Bureau up into groups of five, 
each person to speak a maximum of 
ten minutes, as well as participate 
in the open-discussion period at the 
end of the presentation. To date 
eighteen upperclassmen have be
come active, and there are now 
three groups dealing with the problsem of Europe, Asia, and the Amer
icas. It is also hoped that some of 
the students taking advanced So
cial Relations will write projecjts on 
the subjects coming under this head
ing.
Secretarial, Science 
Students Are Also 
Included In Plan
The following statement, reprinted in 
full, was released by the Carnegie Tech 
News Bureau last Friday:
Carnegie Techs new program of 
acceleration has been announced by 
President Doherty.
Recognizing the fact that there is 
an increased need for trained men 
and women of college age, expedited 
programs have been adopted in 
those fields here there are now 
shortages of personnel in connection 
with the war effort.
Briefly, the plan provides for the 
expediting of every class in the Col
lege of Engineering, the present 
Juniors and Sophomores in the De
partment of Secretarial Studies, and 
the present Juniors in the Depart
ment of General Science of Mar
garet Morrison Carnegie College.
The new accelerated calendar will 
become effective next May.
Registration for those students 
who will participate in the acceler
ated program will be held on Mon
day, May 10, 1943, and classes will 
begin on Tuesday, May 11. Regisistration for the fall term will be 
held on August 26, and classes will 
begin on August 30. There will be 
a weeks vacation between each 
term.
How students of each college will 
be affected is indicated in this 
resume:
In College of Engineering  A 
fully accelerated calendar will be in 
operation. All undergraduate stu
dents, including entering Freshmen, 
will register for the accelerated pro
gram on Monday, May 10, and class
es will start on Tuesday, May 11. 
Fall term registration, including en
tering Freshmen, will be held on 
August 26: classes will start on Aug
ust 30. Seniors will be enabled to 
Continued on page 4
The Bard Wants Your 
Literary Brain-Children
Have you had the burning desire 
to write some form of poetry or 
prose? Then the Bard is looking for 
you. And now is the time for all lit
erary minded people to submit their 
manuscripts. If your English prof 
did give you Ds and Fs on your 
themes, remember many great writ
ers have had their bad moments. So 
dont be bashful. Give out with 
those wonderful literary contribu
tions of poems, essays, short stor
ies, and any other such material.
The Bard, the only literary pub
lication on the campus, is publish
ed by Alpha Chi Alpha, womens 
journalistic honorary. Finals are 
over, so concentrate on your liter
ary brainstorms and bring them to 
Box 409 in the Post Office on or be
fore March 15. The Bard will come 
out about March 26th.

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, JANUARY 26, 1943
CdUostk AnmcUcUfi
An Explanation
Since the Tartan is published for its readers, we believe that those 
readers should be informed as to the future fate of the Tartan. Last weeks 
Tartan was a sample of what is to come, for todays issue is the last eightpage issue that will appear for longer than we like to think about.
Perhaps you didnt like last weeks four-page paper. Well, dear reader, 
we can only assure you that we disliked it many times more than you did. 
Not only is such a paper a disgrace to Carnegie Tech, but it fails to fulfill 
its obligations to its readers.
The reason for curtailing the size of the Tartan is just that we aint 
got the dough. Because of the war, the bottom has dropped out of the ad
vertising business. Some of our advertisers are no longer making their 
products; others, such as florists and mens wea stores and manufacturers, 
no longer find a market for their goods at the colleges.
No Money Anywhere
When we were confronted with this situation, we took what we con
sider to be the logical stepwe asked for more money. From Mr. Murphy 
and Student Councils Publication Committee we got the same answer, 
we aint got the dough. We were told that the Tartan had received 
an extra appropriation in the fall, and that the Tartanette and other ex
tra expenditures had absorbed this appropriation.
The only course left for us then is to attempt to increase our income 
from advertising, and to cut down our overhead. Progress is being made 
on both these items, but in the meantime there will be a number of fourpage issues of the Tartan, in which we will try to present as much news 
as possible in our limited space.
More About L. V. F.
Last week, we printed excerpts from a letter signed L. V. F. We 
hoped that by printing this letter we could jar some of the faculty and stu
dent body from the complacent attitude toward the war, which has mark
ed the thinking and action on the Tech campus. Apparently this letter 
had more than a little success in this respect.
The faculty War Committee didnt like this indictment of their ef
fort, and challenged L. V. F. to prove that he could do better. L. V. F. im
mediately came out of hiding, revealed himself as Leo Fyer, E. B. 45, and 
started to prove that he could back up his statements.
We promised to comment on each of Mr. Fyers six points in this weeks 
issue. We shall, however, withhold our comment another week, and just 
report that we would not have published his letter if we had not thought 
that, in the main, it was the truth.
In the past week, a group of interested and sincere students have form
ed themselves as a nucleus of the proposed War Activities Council to get 
the bond and stamp sales and the scrap collection into high gear. Mr. Fyer 
is brimming over with excellent ideas, and it looks as though the war effort 
is beginning to really get going at Tech.
You are going to hear much more of Leo Fyer and the War Activities 
Council.
P. R. Actuality, At Last
In the past, much has been said in this column regarding Proportional 
Representation. Now that P. R. has been adopted by our Student Council, 
we wish to congratulate the Council on its progressive attitude in trying 
this system of election. On the opposite page (page 3) is an article by 
Walt Darby explaining the method of voting under this system. In case 
there is any question regarding the method of counting the votes, the 
Tartan will undertake to answer letters to the Editor asking these ques
tions.
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the 
staff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not 
to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Carnerie Institute of Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh, Pa.
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2600 PHONE SCHENLEY 4557
__ . Wf" NAT'NAL *DV,".T,8,N BV After Office Hours CallNational Advertising Service, Inc. Editor-in-chief.........................sc. 9887College Publishers Representative
420 TheCarn hgit nio urplt nt st Business Manager.........................BR. 4759
fbCbr  Bos drS  Los *iwnn  Hho rncisco________________
Entered as second-class matter In tlie Pittsburgh Post Office under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Published weekly during school year, except holidays and examination periods.Subscription Price $1.10 per year.
Editor-in-Chief...........................................................................................Melvin H. Snyder, Jr.
Business Manager .............................................................................................. Wilbur Thomas
Managing Editor........................................................................................................ Jeanne King
Circulation Manager.........................................................................................Chester Feinberg
ISSUE EDITORS .
Managing Editor .......................................................................................................T. J.Harmany
News Editor.................................................................-........................*.....................Louisa Saul
Feature Editor..............................................................................................Helena Aronson
Sports Editor................................................................................................................ Don French
Headline Editor.................................................................................................................Dave Neuss
Charge of Rewrite.............................................................................................................Walt Darby
Copy Editors..........................................................Ed Goldstein, Gerry Edelson, Elaine Levin
Sports Staff: Bill Beamer, John Lindberg, Stu Lee.
Business Staff: Martha Wagman, Jerry Jacobs, Jay Levinthal, Lawrence Schutzer.
Reporters: Natalie Nathan, Lucille Sdhulberg, Geri Racusin, Mort Cohn, Aron Beck, 
Norma Caplan, Sidney Gerhardt, Allen P. Golden, Adeline Herlick, Marty Jacobs, 
BUI Kolb, Iris Kwall, Lois Marks, Jeanne Norris Lola Patton, Rhea Rothman, 
Dorothy Rutkin, Alan Schneider, Alice Sofis, Bob Gillespie, Margee King.
A week ago, when we visited the 
Student Council offices over in the 
Union, we met Council Secretary 
Betts Beall. At that time we were 
busy with Pres. Bob Galbraith but 
when we went back yesterday, well, 
we were just busy!
If you happen to find a business 
executive of medium importance, 
who has a nice easy typewriter, who 
is very business-like, who wont in
sist on flowers on all of the office 
desks, and who, incidentally, needs 
a super-duper secretary, please call 
Betts Beall. She demands these of 
her future Boss.
But she is far from being an or
dinary typewriter pounder. Her 
main distinction, perhaps, is her 
fondness for singing with her sister 
Ruth. In fact, the reputation of 
Les Bealls Chanteuses has gained 
wide fame among their Kappa sis
ters. P. S.: after hours of investiga
tion, we discovered that sister Ruth 
always carries the theme of the song 
while Betts does the harmonizing.
Then, too, they write songs. For the 
benefit of the campus and the world 
at large, we take pleasure in an
nouncing the newest Beall, Inc., pro
duction, a romantic ballad which 
they have named Why Love? Ac
cording to Betts, Why Love? 
found its origin during the second 
course of last Tuesdays dinner. 
Betts was humming a tune. Ruth 
joined in, (Betts says they collabTech Pennies Purchase 
Records for Soldiers
In case you are wondering what 
became of the pennies you dropped 
in patriotically-colored boxes last 
semester, here is the answer. The 
coins got together and invested 
themselves in a group of master rec
ord which marched down to Ft. Belvoir, Va., to entertain the soldiers.
Mr. Donald S. Steinfirst, music 
critic of the Post Gazette and chair
man of the Pittsburgh branch of the 
Armed Forces Masters Records, Inc., 
received the following appreciative 
letter which was forwarded to Mary 
Reed, a senior in the Music Depart
ment and chairman of the Tech cam
paign:
Mr. Donald S. Steinfirst 
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 
Dear Mr. Steinfirst:
On behalf of the men stationed 
here at Fort Belvoir, I want to thank 
you and your group so very much 
for the wonderful group of records 
which you sent to us. They were, 
indeed, the best possible Christmas 
present which we could have re
ceived. We were very pleased with 
the selection, and it might interest 
you to note that the Beethoven 
Ninth Symphony was the first thing 
played.
Sincerely yours,
Marjorie E. Bang, Librarian 
Service Club No. 3 
Fort Belvoir, Virginia
The letter was signed by many of
ficers and men of the Fort Belvoir 
personnel.
orate in everything) and, by the 
time they were eating desert, Why 
Love? had been completed.
Other than a few moments when
MISS BETTS BEALL
. . . hasnt copyrighted Why Love? . . . 
she slips out for bridge or pingpong, she can be found at her desk 
in the Council Office. Since she is 
the Council Secretary, we asked her 
what she does when a hot-and-fast 
Council argument starts. Well, 
she said, when things start to pop, 
its my job to sit, listen, and take it 
all down in shorthand!
Council Minutes
The meeting was called to order at 7:15 
p. m., January 19, 1943.
Absent: Messrs. Boyce, Emberg, Reisacher, Whiteside, Dolan, and Thompson 
and Miss Gehrett.
COMMITTEE REPORTS 
Social
Mr. Wolff moved that the petition from 
Citcom Clan to hold a Barn Dance in 
Thistle Hall February 6 from 8 to 1 be 
approved.
Motion carried.
Mr. Wolff moved that the petition from 
Interfraternity Council to sponsor Greek 
Sing and Swing, March 27, be approved.
Motion carried.
Publications
Mr. Rose moved that Council approve 
Chester Fineberg as Circulation Manager 
of the TARTAN.
Motion carried.
NEW BUSINESS
Miss Carver moved that Student Coun
cil sponsor Spring Carnival on April 9 
and 10. It is, however, necessary to ob
tain the permission of the Executive 
Board to hold this event before actual 
plans can be made.
Motion carried.
Mr. Heller reported that the Safety 
Engineers had been working on ideas t* 
improve the campus as to safety. He 
asked that anyone who had a suggestion 
for improvement along this line, write it 
down and leave it it in the Post Office for 
Bill Heller.
Mr. Jones reported that something 
should be done about fire prevention on 
campus. Mr. Galbraith suggested that 
letters be sent to Dorm Council and to 
the fraternities asking them to check their 
fire prevention, and Mr. Jones added that 
a letter should also be sent to the Ad
ministration.
Adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
ELIZABETH BEALL,
Secretary.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, JANUARY 26, 1943THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
. . . On the Campus . . .Seventeen Students 
Make A Honor Roll
The honor list of the Carnegie In
stitute of Technology for 'the se
mester which ended December 19, 
included 280 names and was led by 
17 students with a straight A rec
ord, it was announced today by E. 
K. Collins, Tech registrar.
In the College of Engineering, the 
freshman class was led by George 
E. Pake, of Kent, Ohio, enrolled in 
mechanical engineering; Alan M. 
Schneider, Shorewood, Wis., phys
ics; John S. Stephenson, Mt. Ver
non, N. Y., management engineer
ing; and Robert I. Van Nice, San 
Diego, Calif., chemical engineering. 
The sophomore engineering stud
ents were led by Howard L. Engel, 
New York City, aeronautics; Rob
ert E. Morie, Wilmerding, chemical 
engineering; and George R. Taylor, 
4305 Winterburn Street, chemical 
engineering. Harold C. Schweinler, 
Jr., of Tacoma, Wash., a student in 
the department of chemistry, led 
the juniors, and John N. Datesh, 
2824 W. Liberty Avenue, who grad
uated December 20 in chemical en
gineering, headed the senior honor 
roll.
Five Margaret Morrison Juniors 
achieved the 4.00 factor indicating 
straight A in all subjects. They 
are Patricia A. McGee, 1309 Creedmore Avenue, general science; Elisa
beth H. McNair, 1212 Sheridan Ave
nue, household economics; Sarah E. 
Osborn, 6347 Alderson Street, and 
Margaret R. Skeehan, Baden, secre
tarial studies; and Joy M. Swan, of 
Aspinwall, general science. Doro
thy M. Stewart, Wilkinsburg, secre
tarial studies, Frances A. Felthouse, 
Berkeley, California, general stud
ies, and Jean E. Flegal, Zanesville, 
secretarial studies, led the fresh
man, sophomore, and senior class
es^ respectively.
Richard E. Williams, 1661 Mont
pelier Avenue, Dormont, a senior in 
sculpture had the factor of 3.94, the 
highest in the College of Fine Arts.
Dr. Dorian Authors 
New Musical Text
The History of Music in Perform
ance, a book written by Assistant 
Professor of Music, Dr. Frederick 
Dorian, has recently been publish
ed and placed on sale. According to 
the publishers announcement, this 
book is the first to deal with the 
subject of musical interpretation. 
It will be of interest to the concertgoer, the professional, and the lay
man.
From great musical scores, from 
statements of the composers about 
their works, and from old and new 
literature, the author has gathered 
an engrossing array of evidence on 
the trends of interpretation, from 
the Renaissance to our day. Here 
the art of the performer is studied 
in all its aspects.
HOTEL WEBSTER j 
HALL
Available For
PRIVATE PARTIES 
BANQUETS 
SWIMMING PARTIES
j MAyflower 7700
Fifth near Mellon Institute
Long Proposed P. R. 
Adopted for Future 
Student Elections
One of the biggest changes in stu
dent government ever suggested at 
Tech was finally made official last 
week in the stiff, authoritative lan
guage of the Student Council min
utes, which very simply stated, It 
was moved to approve Section 8, 
concerning method of election. Mo
tion carried. The story concerns 
proportional representation; the new 
system of elections, first proposed 
early last semester, has at last be
come law.
Of course, the advantage of P. R. 
is that each group in an election is 
represented on Council in direct 
proportion to its voting strength at 
the polls. That part of the system 
has been explained many times, and 
nearly everyone has some idea of 
the mechanics of the ballot-count
ing. However, the method of bal
loting has been sadly neglected, and 
many people do not quite under
stand what to do once they have re
ceived their ballots.
The voters part in the new elec
tions is quite simple. When he re
ceives his ballot, he will find listed 
on it all the candidates for the par
ticular office for which he is voting. 
He merely marks it as a preferential 
ballotthat is, if he thinks John 
Smith is the best man, he puts the 
figure 1 after Smiths name. 
That is as far as he has to go, but 
the conscientious voter will want to 
go on. He will pick the name of the 
man he would like to see in the of
fice if Smith didnt get in, and place 
a 2 after that name. Continuing, 
he will place a 3 after his third 
Continued on page 6
Job To Hollywood, 
Uncle Harry To Pgh.
Uncle Harry, starring Joseph 
Sc-hildkraut and written by Mr. 
Thomas Job, Professor of Theatre 
Literature at Carnegie Tech, will 
leave Broadway to run at the Nixon 
Theatre, Pittsburgh, for the week 
beginning February 1.
Mr. Jobs tragedy is the story of a 
quiet Englishman, who hiding be
hind his reputation of mildness, 
murders his sister in such a manner 
that the other sister is convicted of 
the crime.
The professor will assume a six 
months leave of academic duties as 
a member of the Drama Faculty to 
occupy the position of scenerio writ
er for Warner Brothers pictures.
An accomplished English play
wright, Mr. Job is attempting to 
write another play for New York 
consumption.
RODGERS
DAIRY STORES
MILK SHAKES
Made from Pure Whole Milk for 
only 10c
We Do Not Use Skim Milk.

NEAREST STORES LOCATED
------AT------
3905 FORBES STREET 
Near Bouquet Street 
4619 CENTER AVENUE 
Near Craig Street
Leave all notices for ON THE CAMPUS 
in Tech P. O. Box 409 by Friday noon of 
the week before vublication.
No Chapel Today!
Contrary to custom, there will be 
no Chapel today at 11:30 in the Lit
tle Theatre Arts.
Sailors Take Care!
All local sailors of the C. I. T. 
Naval Reserve, and those who are 
planning to join the V programs are 
invited to meet fellow Navy mem
bers at a meeting Wednesday, Jan
uary 27, at 7:30 P. M. in the Car
negie Union.
We hear that several Naval of
ficers will be there to address the 
group on Navy Customs and His
tory, and a chance will also be given 
to quiz the experts in an informal 
discussion that will follow. A for
mal organization will be born, with 
the election of officers to take place 
soon.
Weisenheimers Attention!
Alignment charts or Nomographs, 
will be the topic of Howard Engel, 
a sophomore in the Department of 
Mechanical Engineering, at the 
meeting of the C. I. T. Mathematics 
Club, Friday, January 29 at 3:30 P. 
M. in Room 135-c I. H.
Chess and Bridge Club!
Plans are now being hatched to 
organize a ye oV Chess and Bridge 
club under the sponsorship of the 
C. W. C. A.
It is essential, that interested per
sons immediately signify their in
tentions of joining, as notices of club
card will do, or leave a note in P. O. 
Box 342, Carnegie Tech.
Calling Dr. Kildare
A special course in advanced firstaid will be offered to students who 
are prepared to take it. If you feel 
the urge to further your study of 
the noble science of medicine, drop 
into Mr. Wangemans office (Bureau 
of Placements) and see Mrs. Bate
man to state your preference as to 
time you have free.
Recognition, C. W. C. A. Style
C. W. C. A. will hold a Candlelight 
Recognition Service on Thursday, 
January 28, at 7:00 P. M., in the 
Union. Although all women at Tech 
automatically belong to the C. W. C. 
A., the service is especially for the 
recognition of all girls who have af
filiated themselves with the organ
ization and participated in its activ
ities during this semester. Our 
agents reported that following the 
service, there will be a discussion of 
the participation in the Student 
Youth Movement and the FifteenthCollege Conference which is plan
ned for next month.
AXA Sponsors Assembly 
The girls of Alpha Chi Alpha, na
tional literary honorary, for women 
are sponsoring an assembly tomor
row at 4:30 in Room 106, Arts. It 
will be an open discussion about 
current literature which has evolv
ed from the present war.
Members of Alpha Chi Alpha will 
review new poetry and such books 
as: The Sun Is My Undoing. They 
Were Expendable, Bombs Away and 
The Song of Bernadette.
meetings and activities will here
after be made by mail. If you wish 
to join just drop us a line, a postBOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COIA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY, PITTSBURGH, PA.

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, JANUARY 26, 1943
SLACKS
SWEATERS
CLEANED AND PRESSED35c
Campus Cleaners
4609 Forbes Street 
Near Craig
G. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
THE PROGRESS OF A 
COMMUNITY IS REFLECTED 
IN THE 
CHARACTER OF ITS BANKS 

MELLON 
NATIONAL BANK
MEMBER FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE 
CORPORATION
ach 9*Ua SeteUce
Fort Fitt is the Picce
to Rent
TYPEWRITERS
ALL
MAKES
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
made up under conditions de
termined by the individual 
instructor, subject to such 
general regulations as may 
pertain to the particular 
course.
The above rules were recom
mended to the Education Senate by 
the Committee on Student Ab
sences
$3.00 per 
Month
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
Servicemen Enjoy Smokes
Start the New Year Right With 
the Right Combination for More 
Smoking Pleasure is the current 
Chesterfield theme. This theme is 
fully explained in this weeks Ches
terfield advertisement which points 
out the importance of proper blend
ing in giving smokers a milder, cool
er and better-tasting cigarette.
Reports from men in the Service 
indicate that no gift is more wel
come than cigarettes. On distant 
fronts, like Africa and the South Pa
cific, next to a letter from home 
there is nothing the men would 
rather receive than cigarettes made 
in the U. S. A.
Carnegies Famous Ships Prow To 
Return To the Fight ... As Scrap!
Few students realize that there 
are campus land marks any more 
sensational than Skibo, the Bean
ery, and the Girls Dorms. The 
Prow of the Ship conjures up no 
familiar vision in the average mind. 
Thus it is that the traditional mounment behind Machinery Hall has 
remained a campus mystery these 
many years. Now that it is about to 
be removed, the Tartan comes 
through with the facts, figures, pic
tures, and history straight from the 
ever reliable Story of Carnegie 
Tech by former Dean Arthur Wil
son Tarbell.
The Prow is a bronze figure
head weighing more than fifty-five 
hundred pounds set on a concrete 
prow which is sunk in the side of 
the hill behind Machinery Hall. 
This figurehead was taken from the 
armored cruiser U.S. S. Pitts a gift from the government
when the ship was dismantled at 
the Pudget Sound Navy Yard in 
1912. The Pittsburgh was for
merly the U. S. S. Pennsylvania, 
but a new cruiser of that name was 
under construction, so the name 
was changed to the U. S. S. Pitts
burgh just before the disman
tling.
It is recalled that the word gift 
was jestingly questioned by the col
lege treasurer when he paid the 
freight bill of $282.03 on the figure
head.
Recent investigations have turn
ed up the fact that the Navy De
partment still holds title to the 
prow. The shortage of bronze has 
given the school the idea of scrap
ping the monument, and according
ly, they have written .to the Navy 
Department for permission to do so. 
An answer is eagerly awaited.
Accelerated Program
Continued from, page 1
complete their degree requirements
on December 19, 1943.
In Margaret Morrison Carnegie 
College  The present Junior and 
Sophomore students in the Depart
ment of Secretarial Studies will reg
ister for the programs of their Sen
ior and Junior years respectively on 
May 10. Classes will begin on May 
11. The present Juniors in the De
partment of General Science will al
so follow this program. Senior stu
dents will be enabled to complete 
their degree requirements on De
cember 19, 1943. All other students, 
including incoming Freshmen, will 
register for the fall term on Thurs
day, August 26, and classes will be
gin on Monday, August 30.
College of Fine ArtsAll stu
dents, including incoming Fresh
men, will register for the fall term 
on August 26, and classes will begin 
on August 30.
Educational Senate 
Advises On Absences
In the past months there have 
been some questions brought up 
concerning the student absence 
rules. To clarify any such ques
tions that might be in your minds, 
the Tartan herewith publishes the 
changes in the rules as approved by 
the Educational Senate on May 8, 
1942.
(A) Students are expected to at
tend all scheduled exercises. 
In case he is absent from 
class, the student is charged 
with the responsibility of ex
plaining his absence to the in
structor concerned, and of 
making up such work as the 
instructor may direct.
(B) Each instructor is charged 
with the responsibility of set
tling all problems connected 
with attendance of his class
es.
(C) Excessive absences of fresh
men shall be reported to the 
head adviser concerned. Ab
sences shall be considered ex
cessive whenever their cum
ulative total during a semes
ter exceeds the number of 
scheduled class meetings per 
week of the course.
(D) An instructor may, at any 
time, discuss student absence 
problems with the head of the 
department in which the stu
dent is enrolled.
(E) Work missed because of un
avoidable absences may be

---------------------------------------------------

former Olympic ace who 
trains the Armys ski troopers
IN THE 
SKI TROOPS
say: th:e
"SNOW BUNNY" for beginner
"EGG BEATER" for headOverheels spill
'GHOST SUIT" for white camouflage uniform 
CAMEL" for the Army mans 
favorite cigarette
CAMELS 1 
HAVE WHAT IT 
TAKES! THEY'RE 
- EASY ON MY 
THROAT AND A 
TREAT TO MY 
TASTE I
With men in the Army, the Navy, the 
Marine Corps, and the Coast Guard, the 
favorite cigarette is Camel. (Based on 
actual sales records in Post Exchanges 
and Canteens.)
TURKISH & DOMESTIC Bf?' BLEND ^CIGARETTES 1
The T-Zone
where cigarettes 
arejudged
The "T-ZONE"Taste and Throat is the proving 
ground for cigarettes. Only your taste and throat can 
decide which cigarette tastes best to you... and how it 
affects your throat. For your taste and throat are abso
lutely individual to you. Based on the experience of 
millions of smokers, we believe Camels will suit your 
"T-ZONE" to a "T." Prove it for yourself!
R. J. Reynold!TobaccoCompany, Winton-S*lem, North Ciroltn*
TUESDAY, JANUARY 26, 194 THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
Trustee Laboon, Eng. 12, 
Appointed Lt. Colonel
Director of Public Works in Alle
gheny County, John F. Laboon, has 
been appointed a Lieutenant Colonel 
in the Provost Marshals Depart
ment. He recently left for Char
lottesville, Va., where he will take a 
special four-months course at the 
University of Virginia prior to be
ing ordered to active duty.
Colonel Laboon graduated from 
the Engineering School at Carnegie 
Tech in 1912, and he has since be
come a member of the Board of 
Trustees for the Institute, and 
Chairman of the Athletic Board. He 
was the only member of the Board 
of Trustees that could call Carnegie 
Tech his Alma Mater. Colonel La
boon has a son who attended Tech 
for one year before entering the 
Naval Academy at Annapolis, and a 
daughter who is a secretarial stu
dent in the class of 44.
Upon entering active service, 
Colonel Laboons duties of course, 
will be in the Provost Marshals De
partment which takes over the gov
ernment of occupied towns. The 
staff consists of men trained in city 
government as well as in military 
affairs.
Navigation Courses 
Bring Full Credits
Credit toward graduation at Car
negie Institute of Technology will be 
given to students who successfully 
complete course at the Buhl Plane
tarium School of Navigation.
Four navigation courses  all 
meeting evenings at the Buhl Plane
tariumare open to Carnegie stu
dents.
Celestial Navigation I, which 
teaches the fundamentals of steer
ing aircraft or ships by the stars, 
planets, sun, and moon will meet 
every Friday, 6:30 to 8 P. M., for 10 
weeks, beginning January 29.
Celestial Navigation II, which 
teaches the advanced methods in the 
field, will meet every Monday, 6:30 
to 10 P. M., for six weeks, beginning 
January 25.
Dead Reckoning will meet every 
Tuesday, 6:30 to 10 P. M., for 10 
weeks, beginning January 26.
Meterology for Navigators will 
meet every Thursday, 6:30 to 10 P. 
M., for 10 weeks, beginning Febru
ary 4.
Students interested in the courses 
may obtain full information from 
Charles Wangeman, director of the 
Placement Bureau.
LT. COL. JOHN F. LABOON
. . he may govern axis territory . .
Pi D. E. Contest Deadline
Pi Delta Epsilon, national jour
nalistic honorary fraternity, has set 
April 1, 1943 as the deadline for 
all entries in this years journalism 
contest.
The contest, the rules of which 
were published in an earlier issue 
of the Tartan, is for the best article, 
news story, or feature published in 
any Carnegie Tech publication.
Two More Tech Grads 
Answer Call To WAVES
Two more Techites have answer
ed the call to service. The girls are 
Betty Shanor 42, and Nancy Mc
Kenna, 39, Campus Queen, who are 
at Northampton, Massachusetts, at
tending the Waves Officers Train
ing School at Smith College. Both 
are members of Kappa Phi Delta 
Sorority.
Betty, a Costume Economics ma
jor, was an honorary ROTC cadet 
captain in 1940. Nancy, in addition to 
being Varsity Queen of the football 
team in 1938, was the Secretary of 
Student Council, a member of the 
Mortar Boards, and the honorary 
ROTC cadet colonel in 1938.
Kubach Exhibits In N. Y.
Allen Kubach, Carnegie Fine Arts 
Senior, was recently honored by the 
acceptance of his painting of Pitts
burgh, for presentation in the New 
York Artists for Victory Show.
A realistic landscape of Oakland, 
depicting a group of commonplace 
homes, this scene fulfills the artists 
intention to represent everyday, 
thriving Pittsburgh in a nation at 
war.

---------------------------------------------------

6THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, JANUARY 26, 1943
Hannumen Down St. Vincents, 
Tangle Westminster Tomorrow
By Mike Capabianco
Bouncing back into the win col
umn, the fighting Tartans downed 
the St. Vincent cagers by a 55-34 
count in the latters home court last 
Friday night.
Tech was led by Captain Dave 
Brinn, who had a field day in gar
nering 19 pointers on rebounds and 
set-up plays via the fast break. How
ever the high scoring honors went 
to Phillips of the losers, who parted 
the meshes for a total of 22 points. 
His left-handed pivot was hot and 
couldnt be stopped. Another scor
ing honor is given to Larry Luther, 
Tech freshman, who, in his first colWrestling Team Wins
Downtown at the Y. M. C. A., the 
Carnegie Tech Wrestling team won 
its first practice meet of the season. 
A very interesting match was the 
result of two evenly matched teams. 
Reseults of the match were:
Wt. Class Tech125 Sam West Fall 5 135 R. Troutman Fall 5 145 M. Zoretich Fall 5155 B. Jaffe................0155 J. Neilan ...Fall 5175 W. Ebert _______0Heavy J. McCulloch.... 0 (Extra) J. Neilan............0
20
Y. M. C. A.Bud Garret ..........0Jim Culton ..........0Jim Frank............ 0E. Schmitt . .Desc. 3G. Dietrich .......... 0J. Tekliniski .. Fall 5F. Lang ... .Fall 5 J. Tekliniski . .Fall 5
10
Many men have shown an inter
est in Wrestling this fall semester. 
Practices are Monday, Wednesday 
and Friday afternoons at 4:30. In 
addition to the regular wrestling in
structions, the coach gives hand-tohand fighting.
P. R. Adopted . . .
Continued, from page 3 
preference, and so on down the list 
just as far as he wants to go. He 
doesnt have to finish the list, and 
thus vote for someone he might con
sider totally inadequate.
That is all there is to it. Since 
everyone will know who the candi
dates are in advance, no more time 
should be required than for the or
dinary ballot, and the results of the 
elections will be much more satis
factory from the point of view of a 
truly representative student govern
ment. *
WAR BOND and STAMP
awarded in the
K CONTEST
TWO BI6 CONTESTS 
IN ONE 
FOR STUDENTS 
FOB PROFESSIONAL 
ARTISTS
First prizes  $50.00 War Bonds for 
the best pen and ink drawings illustrating some phase of America's 
Drive to Victory. Entry may be me
chanical drawing of some machine 
or device, promotional piece urg
ing sale of war stamps and bonds, 
inspirational piece or other suitable 
art work.
All entries will be considered for scholar* 
hip* offered by Art Instruction Inc., Chicago 
Academy of Fine Art, etc.
For complete information ask your school 
or art supply dealer, stationer or write 
LOUIS MELIND COMPANY
362 W. CHICAGO AVS.  CHICAGO, ILL. 
DEPT.
lege game, made his first shot good 
for a fielder. Every man on the 
Tech squad saw action, as Coach 
Maxie was having a field day at the 
hands of the unfortunate Saints.
The tilt started fast and was play
ed with even scoring until the sec
ond quarter, when Brinn found the 
range and began to pour the buck
ets in rapid order. Techs long shot 
artists, DeBortoli and Showman, 
were handicapped by the low ceil
ing in the Latrobe Armory, and thus
FRANK POKER FACE SHOWMAN 
. . . stalwart varsity guard . . .
the game was speeded up with fastbreak plays.
Tomorrow night the victory 
mad Tartans will battle the Tow
ering Titans of Westminster in Car
negies gym at 8:30 P. M. West
minsters team is big and rangy, 
averaging over six feet high. Their 
big gun, in games to date, has been 
Goldbloom, the starting pivot.
Other starting assignments for the 
visitors will probably go to Miller, 
Ossof, OHara, and Direken. The 
Titans employ a zone defense, ex
cept when pressed closely, and then 
theyll rely on a man-to-man to hold 
the opponents.
Coach Hannum says, The team is 
coming along in fine shape and we 
expect to win tomorrow. With the 
freshman reserves improving weekby-week, especially Culbertson; the 
Tartans should reach the peak of 
condition and performance this 
week against the 'upstate giants. 
The preliminary go lists the JayVees and Citcom at seven oclock.
Let's go to
ISALY'S
MILK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM CONES
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT: .
3880 Boulevard of the Allies
Little Known Facts 
About Buddy Overend, 
Director of Athletics
In the hall on the second level of 
the gym we see a signDirector of 
Intercollegiate Athletics. In this of
fice we find a family man, a gent of 
large build, of round and ruddy face, 
and more activities than you can 
shake a stick at.
This person is none 
other than Clarence 
Buddy Overend.
Buddy as he is 
known to his friends 
was born and raised 
in Pittsburgh. He is 
married and the fa
ther of four fine chil
dren, two boys and 
two girls. Both sons 
graduated from Car- Mr- Overend
negie Tech. His oldest son re
ceived his degree in 1937 and 
is now an ensign in the U. S. N. 
R. The other son graduated in 
1940. All four children are mar
ried and Granddad Overend has six 
grandchildren. One of the many 
things that Buddy has in uncom
mon with others around Tech is 
that he enrolled in Tech in the first 
class of the fall of 1905 in the Day 
School of Applied Science. Tech in 
those days was known as Carnegie 
Technical Schools. While at Tech, 
he became an activities man. He 
was an ATO, had the honor of being 
vice-president of the first class and 
chairman of the first Athletic Board. 
He also was the first captain of the 
first team of the first game ever 
played herea hockey game with 
Yale University.
After he was out of school, he or
ganized the Varsity Clan in 1915, a 
society of alumni and members of 
the student body who had earned 
their varsity letters. He has been 
an ardent booster of all our athletic 
teams as one would expect.
And now without much comment 
about our subject as your reporter 
is as amazed as the reader will be, 
I herewith submit a list of his many 
achievements, etc. From 1920 to 
1923 he was president of the Ath
letic Board and from 1926 fo 1935, 
Alumni Executive Secretary. In 
1923 he became Graduate Manager 
of Athletics keeping the office un
til 1937. In 1937 he became Director 
of Inter-Collegiate Athetics, the po
sition which he now holds. But the 
list doesnt stop here. Among his 
other offices he has at one time or 
another been Chairman of the Ad
ministration Committee of the Divi
sion of Physical Welfare, past pres
ident of the Pittsburgh Clan which 
is composed of Pittsburgh alumni, 
past director of the Eastern Inter
collegiate Football Association and 
a charter member of the Pittsburgh 
Athletic Association. For the past 
twenty-eight years he has been ex
ceptionally active in alumni affairs.
Citcom A, Sigma Nus 
D. U.s Play for Title
Climaxing intramural basketball 
season was a week of hotly contest
ed games. Emerging as champions 
of their league were the top notch 
cagers of the Citcom A squad. In the 
other leagues top honors went to 
the D. U.s and the Sigma Nus. The 
Citcom squad seems to be headed 
toward the school championship un
less the D. U.s can repeat last years 
performance or the Sigma Nus come 
through and gain this coveted posi
tion. The play offs began yester
day when the Sigma Nus met the
D. U.s. Tonight the Sigma Nus en
counter the powerful Citcom A team 
and on Thursday the D. U.s play the 
Citcom boys. The all school cham
pion will be determined by these 
games.
Last week nine games were play
ed. Of the nine three were played 
by the Phi Kaps who won them all 
by comfortable margins. In a free 
fouling game the Phi Kaps defeated 
the Beta Sigs 28-16. Purcell carried 
away the scoring honors by tossing 
in ten points. In their encounter 
with the A. T. O.s, the Phi Kaps 
downed their opponents 29-23. To 
complete a successful week, the Phi 
Kaps bowled over the Tau Delts
20-38. Beck of the Phi Kaps was 
high score man with sixteen points. 
Close behind Beck was another fra
ternity brother, Purcell, who ac
cumulated fourteen points. Despite 
their valient attempt to take the 
lead from the Sigma Nus the Phi 
Kaps were forced to be content 
with place honors in their league.
In an upset the A. T. O.s downed 
the Sigma Nus. 'The teams were 
was the first loss of the season for 
the Sigma Nus 15-10. This defeat 
very evenly matched as the scoring 
shows. The D. U.s went ahead and 
kept their slate clean by downing 
the S. A. E.s 32-22. Hanover, scor
ing ace of Delta Upsilon, kept up 
his good work by scoring twelve 
points. Meyers another D. U. out 
did Hanover and scored sixteen 
points.
In the other games of the week 
Henderson Hall defeated * McGill 
27-12; Citcom B, the Kappa Sigs 42- 
30; and the Betas, the Delts 19-11.
In the play-offs this week the 
games will start at 7:30. In case of 
a tie the two teams will play for 
the championship next Monday 
night.
DANCE to BILLY HINDS
EVERY FRIDAY EVENING 
EVERY SATURDAY EVENING
INFORMAL
$1 per person (plus tax) 
includes midnight supper
HOTEL SCHENLEY
---------ON THE RECORD----------
i Today 
12:30, Room 157, Arts, Mr. Charles 
A. H. Pearson will supervise this 
phonograph recital:
Trio Serenade.....................Dohnanyi
Thursday 
12:30, Room 157, Arts, Dr. Frederick 
Dorian will be in charge of this pro
gram:
Piano Concerto .............. Schumann

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, JANUARY 26, 1943THE CARNEGIE TARTAN7
BACK UP THE
MAN IN UNIFORM
Victory Tunes
WHAT CIGARETTE GIVES SMOKERS WHAT THEY WANT
AnExn pla lat iaoN NMelp
STA* WITH THE
  -IOA3 o *
n<) "iym0'9
~*Z. * * Ch n,Chesterhelds *9^ g,vesyoo Jj| ^ fj
Copyright 194), ,bwmdd  Tso yrmhr Ca
Tankers To Meet 
Fenn, W. Reserve
The swimming team received two 
severe beatings the week end of 
January 15-16 when they met Oberlin and Penn State resepctively. The 
swimmers took only two firsts 
against Oberlin and ended up on 
the short end of the score of 49-26. 
Doing slightly better at Penn State 
they acquired 32 points to 42 for 
State, but still had only two firsts. 
Oberlin has a very fine team show
ing power in all but the breast 
stroke and diving events. They took 
the first event and were never 
threatened. Penn State has a good 
all-round team with extra power in 
the back stroke and diving.
This coming week end, the team 
will go to Cleveland where it will 
meet Western Reserve and Fenn 
College. The first meet will be with 
Western Reserve on Friday night 
and on Saturday the team will meet 
Fenn at 2:30 in the afternoon. Both 
of these schools promise to give our 
tankers some stiff competition. Al
ready having tasted defeat twice to 
superior opponents, our boys are 
raring to go and feel confident that 
they are going to give their adver
saries of this coming week end a 
tough fight, and bring home the 
fruits of victory.
The probable lineup for this week 
end is: Lee, Smith, R. Eyman, B. 
Galbraith, C. Sarosdy, B. Taber, 
Venzer, Spangler, Ferguson, and 
Beal.
Rifle Season Opens, 
Annapolis Only Trip
The Varsity Rifle Team under the 
top-notch coaching of S. Sgt. R. C. 
Sommer opened its spring season 
with a three position postal match 
last Saturday, January 23. The open
ing score of 1341 for the highest 
five shooters was slightly under the 
average opening scores of past 
teams. The team has been handi
capped from the start by the loss of 
many of its top men either through 
graduation or enlistment in the 
army or navy. Max Williams, last 
years team captain, F. Dietrich, 
Ritchey, Bowers, and Evans were 
those taken by the expedited pro
gram, while R. Walton enlisted in 
the Army Ordnance.
The team has only one shoulder to 
shoulder match scheduled this sea
son and that is with the U. S. Naval 
Academy. This match is to be shot at 
the Academy on February 20. Only 
the five high men on the team will 
make the trip with possibly one al
ternate shooter. The Naval Acad
emy match has and will always be 
the highlight of the season for the 
team, especially so this year since 
it is the only trip away. The rest of 
the matches to be shot will all be 
postals.
On this years varsity are only 
seven men from last years squad: 
Rice, Etzel, Lyon, Obringer, Olson, 
Dickson, and M. Snyder, these men 
plus five sophomores constitute the 
team, which is, incidentally, the 
smallest squad in many seasons.
SKIBO SPORTLIGHT
Uncertainties Lie Ahead
By Don French, Sports Editor
The sports program of the next few months presents a complex and 
involved situation with many new and changing aspects.
Navy Indefinite
 It seems that there are two factions in the Navy training program to 
build up Americas fighting men. One group, headed by Gene Tunney, 
insists that muscle building through various exercises is the proper meth
od. The other faction, headed by Hamilton, proposes to increase competi
tive sports as a means of conditioning the college man.
Which faction will win ultimately is very indefinite at the present, 
consequently no fixed and precise program has been handed down to 
Techs Athletic Department. However, a program will very likely be de
cided on in the near future, and then those in the Navy Reserve will have 
to abide by it.
Armys Plans Unannounced
The Army has specified no definite training program so far. However, 
when it takes over in the near future a program will undoubtedly be spec
ified with the Athletic department carrying out the orders.
Sports Situation
The problem of Intercollegiate versus Intramural sports present a per
plexing problem of the near future. There is no doubt that Intercollegiate 
sports are a necessity for the school as far as school spirit and morale are 
concerned. But at the same time, transportation problems will prevent 
the carrying on of the usual program. It seems likely that local schools 
will provide the competition previously given by out-of-town schools. Pos
sibly all schools within a fifty-mile radius will be the only competition, but 
even this distance may have to be reduced.
On the other side of the fence, Intramurals are more important than 
ever in the war emergency. It is obvious that they have been gaining pop
ularity, and since so many more students are able to participate in Intra
mural than in varsity sports, they should definitely be featured as much 
as possible. It is muck better and far more beneficial to have students par
ticipate in the sports themselves than to have them sit on the sidelines 
watching.

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, JANUARY 26, 1943mem*
Remember Feb. 6
NOTICE Students:  The St. 
Valentines Party is in the offing! 
Starting at 8 P. M., February 6th, 
all the lucky people present at 
the Carnegie Union will have the 
pleasure of dancing, playing pingpong or cards, or participating in 
special activities designed for 
those in a gayer mood.
/I If&uttii 'l'iaiJded Mind
*7bt *7<4e CJUtosi
Ive got a gripe, doggonit, and 
youre the only one I know to tell 
it to. Get your guard up, cause, 
here it comes.
I dont think theres enough ac
tivity on the Night School Campus. 
Here we are with a swell Student 
Union building and a dandy get 
together place in Thistle Hall and 
what happens . . . No one gets to
gether, thats what happens. Why 
dont they get together. Well, I 
think, one reason is because the peo
ple in Night School only see each 
other two or three evenings a week 
and you cant get very chummy with 
some guy or gal who is trying to 
cram a weeks work into two nights 
BUT if they installed a juke box and 
a few ping-pong tables in Thistle 
Hall or advertised the ones in the 
Union, getting acquainted might be 
a lot simpler. If more of us knew 
what a swell place the Union is, we 
would be more apt to come over and 
make use of its many facilities rath
er than say Oh, lets not go over 
there, we dont know anyone and 
wed have a better time at the 
show. Dont you think its a good 
idea to let everyone know what a 
chance theyre missing for a good 
time.
Share-a-Ride
Mr. J. H. Kilmer has added his 
name to our share-a-ride effort. 
Mr. Kilmer lives at 1229 Bartow 
Street in Crafton and makes the 
trip every Wednesday and Friday 
evenings over route 30. His classes 
are from 7:30 til 10:30. Those inter
ested in obtaining a ride may con
tact Mr. Kilmer by calling WA. 3457.
Corrosion* Subject 
Of Lecture Series
Dr. R. B. Mears, internationally 
known authority on the subject, will 
present a 15 weeks lecture course 
on Corrosion (Catalog Number V667) and its prevention, covering 
the theories of chemical and elec
trochemical attack, the special cor
rosion behavior of the various fer
rous and non-ferrous metals and 
their alloys, methods of experiment
al study, and methods of retarding 
corrosion.
A knowledge of elementary phys
ical chemistry is pre-requisite. The 
course will be presented each Mon
day evening, 7:30 to 8:30, Room 113, 
Engineering Hall. First class MON
DAY, JANUARY 25. Enroll at the 
Office of the Registrar any week
day evening, 7 to 9 P. M., except 
Saturday, Fees: Tuition, $10.80; gen
eral $3.00, and unless previously 
paid, matriculation fee of $5.00
Some of the things that have my 
brain doing somersaultsI am now 
a voter, have been a taxpayer for 
two years, and work in a defense 
plant. I buy bonds til it hurts, 
dont hoard and expect to use my 
voting power BUT, in the meantime, 
heres a few items, important to me, 
which Id like some Einstein to an
swer. Im an American through and 
through and believe our Govern
ment is run by men of sound judge
ment but Im asking a little proof.
First of allThe Draftthe rules 
have changed so many times in the 
last few months, I dont know which 
end is up. I should think someone 
would have had the foresight to look 
over the system of the draft in 
World War I and avoid its pitfalls. 
There are married men in camp, 
whose wives are struggling for an 
existence, who were drafted before 
a law was changedtheyre still in 
camp. So they decided to keep the 
married men til all the single fel
lows were draftedin the meantime 
men with children had already been 
drafted  now theyre leaving the 
fathers til last. Some married men 
and some fathers are still in camp 
while others are just waiting. Are 
the wives of the men in camp to just 
accept someones shortsightedness 
without a whimper just because 
this is war? Were all equal and 
entitled to the same rights and, to 
me, the biggest farce of the times is 
the draft as weve seen it in this 
war.
Our country is in turmoilwere 
fighting enemies on all sides BUT 
we still have hundreds and hun
dreds of soldiers in WAR SHOWS, 
men in musicals THIS IS THE 
ARMY (I, personally, enjoyed
Council Minutes
The meeting was called to order 
at 10:35 P. M.
Absent: Messers: Marcinizyn,
Kerstukos, and Riffle.
Old Business:
Miss Lewis recommended the fol
lowing to fill the vacancies in the 
Plaid staff:
Robert C. KingNews Editor.
Josephh RymarAssociate Editor 
of Engineering.
Mary Jo WeberAssociate Editor 
of Engineering.
Motion carried.
It was moved that Council meet 
on the first Sunday of each month.
Motion carried.
Mr. Flanders was asked to submit 
a report on tax receipts from Coun
cil dances.
Mr. Flanders moved that the 
dance scheduled for January 23rd be 
cancelled due to lack of time for 
preparation and the reduced enroll
ment.
Motion carried.
It was moved that a party be held
both). Men are shipped from the 
East to the West for training, then 
back to the East again. (Please dont 
try to hand me that story about each 
camp having specialists in a partic
ular line  I know better) for in
stance  Men have been shipped 
from Pittsburgh to California for 
the Armored Division, then back to 
Louisiana (same division). If things 
are in such terrible shape how can 
we spare the men for these shows 
and how can we afford the time lost 
in shipping them from camp to 
camp. Ill grant we were unprepar
ed for this war BUT why waste any
more time. The Americans want 
peace. Personally, I believe theres 
a lot of business in this WAR. NOW 
AllotmentsA mother struggles to 
rear her son to the right age for the 
draft (three hurrahs) now in the 
meantime shes dependent upon him 
and unable to work. He is drafted 
and she receives $35.00 a month al
lotment, BUT should a soldier 
marry, while in service, his wife, 
even if shes employed, receives 
$50.00 a month. Are all mothers 
supposed to perform miracles? A 
loaf of bread costs the same whether 
one be a mother or a wife. TAXES
I think the Ruml plan is wonder
ful as it would seemingly relieve the 
strain on us all BUT I dont know 
that its sound. Can someone prove 
in black and white that the Govern
ment wont lose money by dropping 
a whole years tax, and just draw
ing taxes on present income as it is 
earned. I hope they can.
Theres lots more on my mind 
little things like wondering why 
women are not rationed nylon hose 
since rayon is definitely a waste of 
money. Nylon outlasts rayon by 100 
to one wearings. Look at all the 
money wasted on rayon hose that 
could be saved and invested in 
Bonds.
WHAT EVENING STUDENT COUNCIL 
SECRETARY IS ASLEEP AT THE 
SWITCH?
February 6th in Carnegie Union.
Motion carried.
New Business:
Miss Lewis moved that current 
bills be paid.
Motion carried.
Mr. Flanders moved that Social 
Committee members be awarded 
points for meetings attended. 
Motion carried.
Meeting adjourned at 11:58 P. M. 
Respectfully submitted,
Nancy Lewis, 
Acting secretary.
The Carnegie Plaid
Page edited by Evening scnool Students of Carnegie Institute of Technology. All views or opinions expressed in editorial column are not necessarily endorsed by the Editorial Board of the Day School stafS.
EditorNancy E. Lewis News Editor 
Robert C. King 
Associate Editor of Engineering Joseph M. Rymar 
Associate Editor of Industries Mary Jo Weber 
Associate Editor of Fine Arts Marion Frost 
StaffAlbert Flanders Mary Hensler John Hundertmark Edward A. Macha
S. W. Marcinizyn D. Pettigrew, Jr. Pearl Pettola Robert Poznanski
This whisper circulating about 
Dick Persohn is interestingSeems 
hes chasing around with a steel 
magnates daughter. Helping out in 
the war effort, eh, Bob? . . . Word 
received, via carrier pigeon, from 
Francis Lacny, advises us that he is 
stationed at Keesler Field, Mississip
pi, as a private on ground duty in 
the Air Corpsbut with great hopes 
of being able to study to be a weath
er observer  Hope you reach your 
goal soon, Francis, good luck! . . . 
Can anyone tell us whats happened 
to Pearl Pettola, she used to be a 
regular Friday-nighter on the Plaid 
staff, but lately shes been among 
the missingHope the O. P. A. bug
aboo hasnt got you, Pearl, we miss 
you . . . Engineering student, Har
ry Rettgers excellent scholastic ef
forts have even been noticed by 
some of his classmatesHe is said to 
be especially proficient in drawing 
... We hear that Ronnie Dresher 
is becoming quite interested in the 
ladies  Ask the numerous day 
school babes in the Personnel 
Management ClassIts too bad that 
gas rationing doesnt permit Ronnie 
the use of his Buick convertible 
and its paid for, too! . . . Bob Bas
sett states that hell gladly sharea-ridewith any glamorous blonde or 
brunette (the more the better) who 
might live out West View way  
How about it, girls! . . . The Plaid 
Staff welcomes a new helperEd. 
Hamiltonwho is proving to be an 
enthusiastic and able worker . . . 
A former Vocational Student, now 
in Engineering, John Kelly, seems to 
be an avid share-a-ride enthusiast 
We hear that he travels to school 
three nights a week all the way 
from New Kensington and he brings 
three or four others with himGood 
work, John . . . Ollie Berg still 
loves to brag of his almost new 
daughter  He insists on rushing 
home (and after only one beer) say
ing his wife expects him home early 
Has to walk the baby, no doubt 
. . . Could it be the FROST, MAR
ION, that keeps you at home on Fri
day nightsor maybe youre not at 
home (weve been known to be 
wrong) that fact itself could be a 
good reason . . .
