The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 37 No. 12 CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA. TUESDAY, AUGUST 10, 1943
War-Time Rushing Schedule 
Cuts Formal Entertainment
Tech students at one of the regu
lar Tuesday night sings. These getRegistration Date 
Petition Denied
At the last meeting of the Execu
tive Board it was voted to deny the 
petition to change registration day, 
signed by 298 students, which had 
been submitted to the Committee 
on Calendar and Schedules. In rec
ommending that it be denied, the 
committee chairman gave the follow
ing reasons: The dates have already 
been announced and notices print
ed, the change would not be in 
agreement with government re
quests to reduce weekend travel, 
and it would result in the loss of a 
da\ of classes, which would not be 
consistent with the decision to hold 
class May 31 and July 5.
Report of Committee on Calen
dar and Schedules Re Student 
Petition for Change in Date of 
Registration:
Mr. Collins presented a petition, 
signed by 298 students, which had 
been submitted to the Committee 
on Calendar and Schedules. The pe
tition was as follows:
We, the undersigned, request 
that the date of registration be 
changed from Friday, August 27, 
1943, to Monday, August 30, 
1943, in order that we, the stu
dents, may have more time to 
spend at home, or in other ways 
make more valuable use of the 
lapse of time between registra
tion and the starting of classes. 
The Committee recommended that 
the petition be denied for the fol
lowing reasons:
(a) Present dates are already an
nounced and notices printed.
(b) The change would not be in 
compliance with Government and 
railway requests concerning travel 
over week ends.
(c) Change would result in a loss 
of one day of classes and would not 
be consistent with action taken in 
the cases of May 31 and July 5 when 
classes were held.
It was VOTED to approve the rec
ommendation that the petition be 
denied.
togethers, under the direction of 
Bert Mustin,
Economics Class Loses 
Shoes In Newest Tech 
Return-to-Nature Move
These Junior Secretarais have a 
lot on the ball, but last Wednesday 
they didnt have very much on the 
balls of their feet. The only shod 
person in their Economics class was 
the profDr. Guild himself, and he 
would have taken off his shoes, too, 
but he was afraid of being caught 
in an act unbecoming to a Tech 
professor.
Theres a background to this 
storyand a moral too. It all began 
when Dr. Guild admitted to his 
harem that he looked forward to 
coming to his Wednesday afternoon 
class because he was continually be
ing surprised. So, the all-brains of 
the class, headed by two-brains 
Townsend, got together and decided 
to outdo themselves by making 
everyone in the class take off her 
shoes.
What gave them this idea, nobody 
knows. It may have been Mme. 
Chiang Kai-sheks influence in this 
country, or it may have been some
thing about the law of supply and 
demand, but my idea is that it was 
return to nature.
Anyway, when at 12:59, Dr. Guild 
approached Room 114 in Maggie 
Murph, he was confronted by a line 
of shoes varying from sizes 4 to 9 
and extending from Room 110 to 
115.
As he entered the room, the en
tire class rose and greeted him with 
a bright, Good morning, dear 
teacher. Not to be outdone, Doc 
bowed from the waist down. When 
he suggested that he close the door 
so that there wouldnt be a draft in 
the room, no one suspected a thing. 
But that was where our secretarials 
made their fatal mistake.
Class was conducted in the usual 
manner, with a few undertones, 
such as Something told me I should 
have taken a bath last night, and, 
Get your feet out of my face, 
Stauff.
After class, there was a mad rush 
out the door in order to get the best 
shoes out of the pile BUTno shoes 
. . . and me without my number 18
Mosie. Bavtachi.
Army Takes Over In 
Former IH Foundry
Captain B. B. Smith, in charge of 
the soldiers in the Foundry Bar
racks, calmly reclining on his desk 
chair for a brief moment to discuss 
affairs with your Tartan reporter, 
states that things are just getting 
started. The Company includes two 
hundred men, fifty of whom are lo
cated in the A.T.O. house, the rest in 
the new barracks. Construction be
gan on an exit to the Foundry and an 
entrance to a barracks about thirty 
days ago, with construction of a new 
floor and a midway horizontal parti
tion after the original foundry 
equipment had been removed. These 
two rooms are to be used for sleep
ing with additional rooms surround
ing them for the various other ne
cessities of life. Room 321 has been 
converted into a study room with 
Room 9 to be used for recreation.
The men began arriving on Aug
ust 3 in a group of seventy-eight, 
with the one hundred twenty-two 
arriving last Thursday. Permanent 
staff includes Capt. Smith, 1st Sgt. 
T. Jaffe, and T-5 Corp. W. H. Seifert 
These men will remain here at Tech 
while the trainees will vary ap
proximately every six months. The 
only serious difficulty so far en
countered has been in the size of 
the lockers (the ones received from 
Industry Hall). They just arent 
meant for hanging any amount of 
clothing in and still retain the press. 
Things are just beginning as the 
Captain says, so there may yet be 
a remedy in sight. This is only the 
beginning of the Tale of the Foun
dry Barracks. There will be more 
to tell in a few weeks when the sit
uation becomes more settled.
stamp. The hall was empty with 
the exception of the janitor who 
was complacently cleaning the win
dows. En masse, the girls let out 
a shriek that was heard all over the 
campus. And then started a frantic 
search from room to room, in a vain 
attempt to find the missing shoes. 
Finally, Dr. Guild took pity on them 
and brought out a box that he and 
the janitor had conspired to hide the 
shoes in.
Most of the girls walked off carry
ing their hoes. Their excuse was 
that their feet were too dirty for the 
shoes. Oh, yes, the moral: Wash 
your feet every night, because you 
can never tell when you might be 
caught with your shoes off.
Traditions Exam
A traditions retest will be given 
in September for those who did not 
pass the last one. Until then they 
will be ineligible for all extra-cur
ricular activities.
New Rushing Rules 
Allow Houses More 
Time and Less Money
As there are only about 60 in the 
entering freshman class, the rush
ing competition is quite keen. All of 
the fraternities are counting on 
freshmen to replace those upper
classmen who have entered the arm
ed service.
This state of affairs has brought 
about a new set of rushing rules. 
These rules are substantially the 
same as those in effect formerly, but 
there are a few important changes. 
-In the first place it is understood 
that rushing is permitted at all times 
except those specifically excluded. 
Among the exceptions are included 
the Freshman Placement Tests, the 
Freshman Tradition and Organiza
tion Talks, and the Y.M.C.A. Sports 
Program.
In general the fraternities are re
quired to respect all of the events of 
Freshman Week. No rushing is per
mitted in the registration rooms or 
while the individual rushee is sched
uled for physical examination. On 
Monday, August 9, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 
p.m., there was a Silent Period dur
ing which Fraternity men were ask
ed to minimize their contacts with 
rushees. Only at the end of this 
period were fraternities allowed to 
begin pledging. The effect of war
time economy is shown by the rule 
which now prohibits any fraternity 
from holding an orchestra dance. It 
was the custom in pre-war days to 
rent luxurious country clubs with 
expensive orchestras and entertain
ment.
The problem of entertainment 
proved to be not too difficult. One of 
the most popular solutions is the 
house party which can be either a 
date or stag affair. Next in popu
larity seems to be the picnic, inspite 
of transportation difficulties. Pitts
burgh is noted for its many fine mo
tion picture theatres, and the fresh
men have the opportunity to enjoy 
the best in professional entertain
ment, including a stage performance 
by a top name band. Many of the 
freshmen are interested in various 
types of entertainment such as bowl
ing, rollerskating, and dancing. It 
is possible to enjoy these recreations 
right here in Oakland; this helps 
considerably to alleviate the trans
portation problem.
The cooperation by most of the 
fraternities has been excellent, but 
there has been some disregard for 
the rules. In particular one of the 
fraternities paid no attention to the 
rule against rushing during the 
Freshman Dinner. Most of the in
fractions, however, have not been 
too serious.

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, AUGUST 10, 1943
ZJUtosuL AnmcitcUn.
With this, which may well be our last editorial, there are a few things 
about which we would like to comment before the semester ends. First 
we would like to thank those who have given assistance and encourage
ment to the TARTAN through the hardest semester of its publication. 
News has been slim and we have been terribly under-staffed. In our own 
defense we would like to point out that this is the first summer that we 
have tried to operate at all, and (with the assistance of our over-excellent 
business staff) we have been able to put out eight-page issues nearly every 
week. Naturally we do not expect any college paper, or any newspaper, to 
please every reader, but it has been our experience that those who com
plain the loudest about anything are the ones who can offer no constructive 
suggestions for improvement. In the fall we believe that increased enroll
ment and the resumption of normal activities will enable us to give the 
students a really solid paperfull of news rather than feature stories. But 
until then, we can only offer our appreciation to those who have quietly 
pointed out our blunders and rejoiced with us in our modest successes.
Secondly, it is our sincere belief that the TARTAN is the only medium 
of exchange for student opinions remaining on campus. The staff cannot 
know all the ideas that float around, and so we have been printing more 
and more Letters to the Editor, and we think this is a healthy policy. We 
have watched with special interest the comments that have been voiced 
about Civilian-Soldier relations, and the reactions that these comments 
have caused. We have endeavored to keep strictly nonpartisan in the 
matter with the exception of voicing the hope that all the dissension is not 
deadly seriouswe believe that it is a good thing, as long as it is kept in 
the spirit of all for fun. In any event, we have been delighted to see so 
many students taking advantage of their opportunity to express their 
opinions of campus affairs, and we hope they will continue the good work.
Finally we have a few words to say about the other students in school 
who have shown the opposite tendencynot only have they failed to take 
part in the college life that is going on around them, but they seem not to 
realize that it even exists- Take, for example, what occurred in connection 
with the freshman traditions exam. The class was well warned as to what 
the exam would consist of, when it would be held, and the penalties of 
failure. We are not so much concerned with the 34 who took the exam and 
failed it as we are with the knowledge that the number of freshmen who 
were absent from the exam was greater than the number who passed it. 
Passing or failing a traditions exam is not noteworthy in itself, but we 
think that this lack of interest on the part of what is usually the most 
conscientious class in a school is indicative of the general let-down feeling 
students are falling into today. And it is not the fault of the freshman class.
And so, before we write our last 30, we have a plea to make. It isnt 
the usual appeal to School Spirit that you are tired of hearing, it is just a 
requests made to the upperclassmen to live up to their obligations. You 
who have been in Carnegie Tech long enough to remember how things 
used to be are in an enviable position. The buggy races, Sing and Swing, 
Carnival, real football teams, political squabbles between the fraternities 
and the independents, and even the heyday of the Dragon Society are not 
just words, they were actualities and you enjoyed them. Our underclass
men will never know anything exactly like that; they will only have the 
campus life that we give them, and you must admit that it has been pretty 
slim, with wholesale resignations from ACAC and the general blah 
feeling that is prevalent where extra-curricular activities are concerned. 
Yes, we owe our freshmen the best we can put forth in the way of campus 
activities, but have you ever given a thought to how much more we owe 
this effort to our own alumni? We have been impressed by the number 
of ex-studentsespecially the boys who are in the armed serviceswho 
have expressed their desire to see Tech carry on in spite of the war. These 
are the ones who gave us our taste of college life, and we dont think 
it is too much for them to ask that we pass our traditions along as they 
did. Our plea, then, is that with the new semester that is already looming 
up we upperclassmen will shoulder our burden as we should, and make the 
most of our last few months of school. Remember, true satisfaction is 
gained only by effort.
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the 
staff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not 
to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh, Pi.
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2600 PHONE SCHENLEY 4557
REPRESENT ED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative ,
Ath elasmin gofE xfc uivE xE uE
Brdlmi w yimpin  Los arseli  ,lf bmldsmdi 
2ntered as seconl-cMss matter In tue Pittsburgh Post Office under the Act of March S, 1*7.
After Office Hours Call 
Editor-in-Chief...........................HI. 7093
Business Manager.......................SC. 8951
Published weekly during school year, except holidays and examination periods.
Subscription Price $1.10 per year.
Editor-In-Chief..........................................................................................................T. J. Harmany
Business Manager.............................................................................................................Nick Reed
Co-Managing Editors................................................................Helena Aronson, Walt Darby
Sports Editor .........................................................................................................Chuck Peterson
Asst. Business Manager......................................... .....................................................Merle Wolff
Personnel Manager................................................................................................ Naomi Ellman
Circulation..............................................................................................................Chester Feinberg
Photographers.......................................................................................Tom Bokman, Joe Urban
Business Staff: Bob Charpie, Bill Watkins, Al Keuntz, Ted Gazda
Sports Staff..........................................................John Lindberg, Al Neleson, Jim Montague
Reporters: Aron Beck, Con. Corey, Sy Corwin, Walter Ellmen, Tom Farrahy, Mary
Jane Ferguson, Malcolm Festenstein, Nick Georges, John Glass, Bill Kolb, Ernie 
Lowenstein, Pvt. Bernard Marcus, Al Perry, Robert Sugarman, Del Walton.
one of the girls
One way of finding out what T. 
J. Harmany does around campus 
besides going to school is to keep 
her still long enough to look at one 
of those jangling bracelets on her 
right arm. Theres one key for being 
the vice-president of CWCA which 
makes her Chairman of the Big and 
Little Sister Movement. Next to it 
is one of her prize possessionsa 
key from Annapolis. Sharing hon
ors with it is a D.U. crest and a Kap
pa Sig sweetheart locket. Her jour
nalistic activities dangle around on 
the bracelet tootheres a Pi Delta 
Epsilon key and a Tartan one. Shes 
the first woman who has ever been 
elected editor of the Tartanthat 
and being a Kappa Phi Delta are 
two of the nicest things that have 
ever happened to her. Being editor 
of the Tartan has helped her realize 
her greatest ambition at Techbe
ing on the Student Conference Com
mittee, which meets with President 
Doherty once a month to discuss 
campus problems.
She gets a huge bang out of life 
and likes almost anything you could 
ask her about. Animalsshe loves 
them, horses and cats and dogs 
everything but chow dogs on ac
count of one bit me once on the 
nose. The family used to raise dogs; 
they have a lot of show ribbons to 
prove it. That was when they lived 
in California; T. J. was born in Los 
Angeles- As far as books are con
cerned she isnt fussy; she likes all 
kinds from Winnie the Pooh to the 
Aeneid in its original Latin. Her 
tastes in music are just as specializ
edcowboy ballads and symphonies, 
but especially Love For Sale and 
The Woofenpoof Song.
. . , T. J. Harmany
People interest her tremendously; 
she loves intelligent people with a 
sense of humor whether they are 
actresses, janitors, capitalists, or 
MEN. But, she says, I like them 
as they are, with no affectations!
One of her big problems is what to 
do when she graduates. When she 
was little she wanted to be every
thing from an international spy 
(with her slant eyes she looks the 
part) to a social worker. A police
man once discouraged her in the last 
career by shouting, You get out of 
here; youre too young to be in Mor
als Court! when she went down to 
the police station to see how such 
things worked. About all she does 
know is that she is going to have 
five children. She has always been 
interested in journalism, but as for 
Continued on page 5
Letters To The Editor
Dear Editor:
With scarcely two weeks remain
ing before the end of the present 
semester, I, a proud freshman, want 
to take this opportunity to express 
my feelings for what I consider the 
greatest engineering school in the 
country  Carnegie Tech! Hardly 
four months ago, I began my fresh
man year, completely bewildered 
and confused as I stepped from the 
insignificant role of high school stu
dent to the important position of 
college freshman. College life, with 
all its complexities and unusual 
happenings, was all new to me. 
Never before had I gone to a chem 
lecture, where, if one was tired, he 
could catch up on his sleep. Seeing 
women at an engineering college 
was something I had read about, but 
now I have actually seen the im
possible!
And the informality of professors 
on the very first day of my Eng
lish class our prof warned us not to 
act unruly although he admittedly 
looked no older than any of us, his 
students. Social relations presented 
something newI had a chance to 
dig in and get the most out of the 
course or lazily meander over it. 
High school math and chemistry 
have proved invaluable, and many 
a night I left an assignment undone, 
hoping that what I had learned in 
my not-so-long-ago senior year of 
high school would see me through.
But scarcely had I gotten into the 
swing of my studies when I began to 
notice what was going on around 
school. The army moved in. Huge 
numbers of soldiers steadily in
creased and soon one could not cross 
the campus without hearing that 
familiar hip-hup-hoe as a section 
leader would count cadence for his 
men. Some of those soldiers werent 
bad fellows, in fact, I met a nice boy 
from my home town, Boston. Un
fortunately, the girls of Maggie 
Murph were not all here during the 
summer session, but those coeds at
tending summer school were de
lightfulI know. Soon school ac
tivities began to hold interest for 
me. The Tartan, Scottie, Techni
cal, Alpha Phi Omega, the track 
team and the tennis team  yes, 
there was plenty to go out for. Tech 
was holding wide open arms for 
anyone who wanted to get an enjoy
able college life with the available 
facilities.
I joined a fraternity and knew 
what it was like to associate with 
other fellows. Boys from Texas, 
New York, Minnesota, Tennessee 
they were all swell once you got to 
know them.
Four months are nearly over now, 
and as I look back over everything, 
I can honestly say that Ive had a 
grand time at a first-rate school. 
Carnegie TechThats for me!
Gerald Brickman.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, AUGUST 10, 1943THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
This is not the army as anyone can 
see,
This is not artillery nor yet the in
fantry.
K. P. is not for us, but it is not 
forgotten;
To speak of marches, shooting, drill
ing is to us verboten 
A war is going on and here we are 
at school
Does someone think you just an
other fool?
But that is not for us, the decision is 
much higher,
We are here to learn and study and 
let others fire.
If at times we feel that we dont do 
our part
Remember that we dont decide just 
who will light the spark.
The battle of the home front may 
not seem so much,
But someone knows we do our part 
in this and that and such.
So worry not while youre in school 
that you will be a slacker
Diggin The Discs
By Dick 
Carribean Clipper 
Blue Rain
Glenn Miller 
This is a new release of a disc, cut 
before Glenn broke up his band, 
taken from the apparently inex
haustible backlog of sides waxed be
fore the A. F. of M. ban. Clipper is 
a typical Miller jump tune, orif 
youve heard Boulder Buff and Sun 
Valley Jump  youve heard this. 
Flipover is a tune which is catch
ing on at the present time. The old 
Miller sax section pours out the old 
sentiment. Vocal by Ray Eberle. 
This side also sounds like every 
other ballad Glenn has recorded.
The outlook for a letup in the re
cording ban is not very promising. 
James C. Petrillo and two commit
tee members representing the A. F. 
M. refused a plan of mediation pro
posed by seven transcription firms. 
Petrillo indicated that there would 
be no discs cut for commercial pur
poses until the phonograph compan
ies agree to the box proposal which 
he submitted to them several 
months ago.
The A. F. M. prexy proposed a 
plan to provide records for the fight
ing forces. The musicians would 
contribute their services free if the 
record companies would furnish the 
records free to the camps for juke
boxes operated by service men only. 
The juke-box operators would be 
expected to contribute their facili
ties too. This cooperation between 
these three factions seems highly 
improbable.
For
Standard Coil and 
Manufacturing Co.
201 E. Carson St.
someone else has made the 
plans that makes you just the 
backer.
Purdue Exponent.
Indiana University has created a 
Reading Clinic for students in need 
of remedial work in reading. Speed, 
skimming, memorizing, locating cen
tral ideas, organization, vocabulary, 
and intensive reading are taught as 
need is indicated. Practice periods 
are followed by individual study us
ing class assignments where choice 
of study technique is made by the 
student. Strict time limits are kept 
to motivate concentration upon the 
assigned material, and self-criticism 
checked at the close of the period.
Indiana Daily Student.
Guide to dancing was printed re
cently in the Cornell Daily Sun. 
Readers were given tips on the log
ical approach to dancing and were 
warned away from the trite opening, 
Shall we er . . . ah . . . dance? 
Five different substitutes were listed 
as follows:
1. My, that floor looks inviting!
2. My toes are itching; lets 
scratch!
3. Lets trip the light fantastic, 
pip!
4. Lets trip!
5. Lets!
If ones dancing was best describ
ed by No. 4, a solution to the predic
ament was given. Our hero told the 
fair lady that hed just come back 
from football partice and sprained 
his ankle. Result to this statement 
was guaranteed. It was predicted 
that the girl would lose all trace of 
sophistication and aloofness and 
would immediately say huskily, Oh, 
you poor boy, we must get you off 
this dance floor immediately.
Former Carnegie Man 
Killed In Plane Crash
Robert T. Rathbun, Carnegie. Tech 
graduate, was killed in a plane crash 
on July 28th. The accident occurred 
about 1 mile northwest of Decherd, 
Tennessee and about 10 miles from 
his base at Tullahoma, Tennessee. 
Lieutenant Rathbun was taking ad
vanced training for both pilot and 
observer at Brooke Field, Texas.
He had received his pilots and 
observers wings on May 24th at 
Brookes Field, Texas, and had re
sumed Combat training on July 15th 
at Tullahoma. He had also passed 
and received excellent awards in 
aerial gunnery.
Robert received his B.S. degree at 
Carnegie Tech in 1942, the year that 
he graduated. His home was in 
Jamestown, New York, where his 
parents, Mr. and Mrs- John C. Rath
bun are now residing. He was a 
member of the Delta Upsilon frater
nity, Kiltie Bank, Captain of the rifle 
team and a member of the A. S. M.
E.
The funeral will be held at the 
home of his parents probably on 
Sunday, and the burial will be at the 
Lake view Cemetery in Jamestown.
Area-language men are being train
ed there.
Purdue Exponent.
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
Knapp Bros. Co.
Purveyors of Sea Foods
116 Blvd. of Allies
Former Tech Student 
Receives Navy Wings
William M. Minkel, 23, son of Mrs. 
Stella Minkel of 1511 Church Street, 
Ambridge, won his Navy Wings of 
Gold and was commissioned an En
sign in the Naval Reserve last week 
following completion of the preIt looks as if the Axis troops over 
in Europe need some shock-absorb
ers to lessen the pain that Uncle 
Sams boys are causing them. Per
haps they should make use of some 
free-wheelingthey can run faster 
that way you know.
scribed flight training course at the 
Naval Air Training Center, Pensa
cola, Florida, the Annapolis of the 
Air.
Prior to entering the Naval ser
vice, Ensign Minkel attended Car
negie Tech for two and a half years, 
where he belonged to Phi Kappa 
fraternity and was a member of the 
varsity football and basketball 
teams.
Having been designated a Naval 
Aviator, he will go on active duty 
at one of the Navys air operational 
training centers before being as
signed to a combat zone 
A note of sadness creeps into col
lege publication news these days. At 
last count we hear that three out
standing dailies have closed shop in 
May: The Daily Pennsylvanian of 
Penn University, the Yale Daily 
News, and the Harvard Crimson.
Hope for students suffering from 
a bad case of drooping factor: Some
where or other we read that figures 
prove that 60% of University stu
dents who make unsatisfactory 
grades eventually trace their faults 
and dficiences directly to poor 
vision.
Dance to Billy Hinds Every 
Saturday Evening This Summer
Continental Terrace
85 Cents (Plus Tax) Per Person
Hotel Schenley
The unsuspecting stranger roam
ing the Yale campus is likely to be 
somewhat startled if he listens to 
the conversations of the ASTP men 
stationed there . . . and it wont 
be because he isnt up on his slang; 
it will be just the men cutting up a 
few touches with their Chinese, Jap
anese, Burmese, Malayan, or Russianski, the languages in which the
H. W. KEEBLER MFG. CO.
MACHINERY SPECIALISTS SPECIAL MACHINERY
422 First Avenue 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
WOODLAWN PHARMACY
5200 FORBES STREET 
Your Campus Drug Store
FEATURING a Complete Line of Canteen 
Items for the Soldiers 
SHIRTS BELTS
PANTS HATS
SOCKS ______________LAUNDRY BAGS
We Also Carry A Complete Line of 
School Supplies

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, AUGUST 10, 1943
one of the profs
Ill go down to see Miss Win
chester about it, is the Secretarials 
automatic solution to almost any 
problem, for Miss Edith Winchester, 
Head of the Secretarial Department 
manages to fix up everything from 
passing a course in the Engineering 
school to finding times for the girls 
to have the swimming pool. She 
has the happy faculty (as far as her 
students are concerned) of seeing 
the girls point of view and sym
pathizing with it. Neither the hurry 
and confusion of the expedited 
course or the Army on the cam
pus flusters her  its the second 
time in her life that she has experi
enced the problems of a school in 
4 wartime. A product of an expedit
ed course brought about by the 
other World War, Miss Winchester 
knows how to take it all in her 
stride. When she came to Tech in 
February, 1919, there was another 
Army here and there were Barracks 
all over the Cut; the civilian classes 
were expedited and things were go. . . Miss Edith Winchester
ing at the feverish pace we know 
today.
Miss Winchester was born in 
Charlottetown, Prince Edward Is
land, Canada; because of this she 
has been forced to produce papers
MOVING
Every Load Insured
Pianos & Refrigerators Moved 
J. G. MICHAK 19 Sylvan Ave.
Walter H. Bock
Florist 
Greentree Road
at various times ever since to prove 
that she is an American citizen. She 
graduated from Simmons College in 
Boston in January, 1919, and came 
to Tech in February of the same 
year. She got her M. Ed. from Har
vard. After she came to Tech she 
was promoted from one position to 
another until she became a depart
ment head and a full professor. In 
1925 she was made an assistant pro
fessor; in 1926, acting department 
head; in 1927, associate professor; in
1929 department head; and in 1937, 
full professor. When faculty mem
bers were chaperones in the wom
ens dormitories, she lived on the 
campus for six years; two years at 
Birch (Mellon Annex then) and
BRAEBURN ALLOY STEEL 
CORPORATION
Braeburn, Pennsylvania
VOSS
MACHINERY COMPANY
2882 West Liberty Ave. Dormont, Pittsburgh, Pa.
MACHINES AND TOOLS
BUILDING MOVING ENGINEERS 
OF PITTSBURGH
52 S. Twentieth Street 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
"odlteiUtiak efuM&i! !
Mysterious Word Explained By 
Elusive Man-In-White On Campus
What is this new secret symbol 
spreading with unprecedented vigor 
throughout Tech? Eat at . ..
Vice ... and just plain PODBEILNIAK! Is it some new Jap 
code, or a German trick to disturb 
the engineering schools of America? 
In line with the Tartans policy of 
getting the facts behind news of in
terest around campus the question 
has been thoroughly investigated. 
The results are sure to amaze you.
The other night a student clad in 
a pure white robe was seen enter
ing the basement of Engineering 
Hall carrying a monstrous piece of 
some white substance. Intrepid in
vestigators followed, unmindful of 
the danger involved. Down the 
steps, deep into the bowels of Car
negie. Sensing that he was being 
followed, the culprit took to the 
steam tunnels. The chase started 
in earnest.
Through the dimly-lighted tunnel 
the person in white led the investi
gators. Out into Maggy Murph, 
dark as a tomb that early in the
four years at Linden (now Dr. War
dens house). For a number of 
years she was Secretary to the Gen
eral Faculty. In 1938-39 she held a 
position that no woman had ever 
held before in the history of the 
school; she was Chairman of the 
Faculty. She is a charter member 
of Phi Kappa Phi and the faculty 
advisor to Mortar Board. Among 
the other things she has done at 
Tech, she was field representative 
for the school last summer. On that 
job she traveled over the country 
talking to prospective students  
Arts and Engineering students as 
well as Margaret Morrison students.
In the days before the war (when 
she used to get vacations) she went 
to New England  usually to Lex
ington, Massachusetts, where she 
spent the summers reading and gar
dening. Her favorite reading mat
ter is mystery stories and historical 
novels about New England. She 
loves to cook, but she doesnt have 
much time to; when she does the 
meals are very simple, she says. Her 
Secretarial English class is one of 
the most popular courses in the de
partment  when Miss Winchester 
reads a ridiculous business letter or 
imitates a girl in a too-short skirt on 
the street car, she really out-dramats the dramats. She remembers 
the name of every student she has 
ever had, even when they walk into 
her office fifteen years later and 
greet her with, Ill bet you dont 
know who I am. So far she has 
never been stumped. That is partly 
the reason why Tech means Miss 
Winchester to so many graduates.
morning. Then over to the gym, 
and into the pool. It became ap
parent whoever it was intended to 
do away with himself rather than 
be caught, and the pursuit was 
slackened to allow him to lead the 
way to the hideout. The unearthly 
chase continued across the campus, 
through the theater, and into the 
mess-hall. Still the man in white 
showed no indication of stopping. 
Just as it seemed that the pursuit 
would never end, he ducked into the 
Administration Bldg. Down the 
hall, and up to the main bulletin 
board. Out came the white sub
stance, and soon the reason for the 
secrecy became apparent. On the 
wall he wrote in bold letters Vive 
Podbeilniak.
Now it can be told. Ordinarily 
third degree is not resorted to in 
such cases, but it seemed the only 
thing to do. After several hours of 
treatment, and wearing out two lead 
pipes, he cracked. All right, all 
right. No more. Ill talk. And 
talk he did.
. It appears some misguided genius 
in the psych dept, assigned a new 
topic for PG study, student reac
tions to unusual words and phrases 
appearing in prominent places on 
campus. Of course, the results 
would be spoiled if it got out, so the 
work was done only in the dark of 
the moon on Friday the Thirteenth. 
And, now, what is Podbeilniak.
The department head assured the 
Tartan that there is some signifi
cance. The word was carefully 
chosen as a key to the student psy
chology. As a matter of fact, only 
the most heartless beating succeed
ed in making the guilty party di
vulge the information, so deeply was 
he impressed with the sacredness of 
the knowledge. In desperation he 
spat out Pass on despite beguiling 
enticements involving luscious new
ness and intimate knowledge. Still 
there is no interpretation of this 
meaningful sentence. The intention 
is that the student body as a whole 
will divine the full explanation. 
When the entire story can be di
vulged, be assured you will be the 
first to know.
BUY WAR 
BONDS
Ukrainian National 
Aid Society
527 Second Ave.
For A Pleasant Photograph
 See 
REMBRANT STUDIOS
347 Boulevard of Allies 
Phone ATlantic 3834

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, AUGUST 10, 1943THE CARNEGIE TARTAN5
Tommy Tucker Eludes Pursuers, 
Turns Up At SAE Cocktail Party
This is the story of an interview. 
Well admit were pretty new at this 
game but why, oh why, did we ever 
want to write for the Tartan? We 
were sent to the Stanley Monday 
afternoon to get an interview from
Tommy Tucker. We got as far as 
the stage door when it was discov
ered that our timing was poor. He 
had left five minutes earlier. Our 
next stop was the ticket office in an 
endeavor to locate the hotel where 
he was staying. The cashier didnt 
know but she thought that the head 
usher would. He in turn referred us 
to the manager from whom we fin
ally gleaned the information we 
were seeking. Tommy Tucker was 
staying at the Roosevelt Hotel. 
(Clue No. 1).
Dashing madly over to the hotel, 
we inquired of the desk clerk 
whether Mr. Tucker was in. Yes, 
he was. Luck was with us. Learn
ing his room number we went up 
to his room and rang the bell. No 
answer. Another ring. Still no an
swer. We searched that bar, the 
lobby, lounge, every imaginable 
place. No Tummy Tucker. We 
didnt want to see him at the hotel 
anyway, so we returned to the thea
ter. We searched backstage to our 
hearts content but still failed to lo
cate him. How, would Fearless 
Fosdick go about getting his man? 
We decided to return to the hotel 
and camp on his doorstep, however
when inquiries were again made as 
to the elusive Mr. Tuckers pres
ence we discovered that he had been 
there but had returned to the the
ater about twenty minutes ago. Aha! 
We were hot on his trail.
At the theater we again searched 
backstage and after inquiring of sev
eral likely-looking persons if they 
were Tommy Tucker, finally caught 
him. But not for long. After finding 
out he v/as a brother SAE, I had just 
time to invite him out to the house 
before he again slipped away.
Wednesday afternoon rolled 
around and he finally appeared for 
the cocktail party. We had to ap
ply our best football tactis to corner 
him long enough to find out that he 
graduated in 1924 from the Univer
sity of North Dakota where he ma
jored in music. His wife is from 
North Carolina and Amy Arnell is 
from Norfolk, Virginia. Obviously, 
he likes southern women.
The editor is going to be hopping 
mad when she reads this inter
view, but we enjoyed Tommys vis
it and the cocktail party immenselyOne of the Girls . . .
Continued from page 2 
doing that for ever and evershe 
just isnt sure yet. She is still toying 
with the idea of going to New York 
and getting a fascinating secretarial 
job.
The glamourous little editor of the 
Tartan has something besides looks 
and brains to recommend her; she 
can cook and sew. She says she can 
cook and sew, but watermelons and 
French 75s are what she likes best 
of all and you dont cook or sew 
either of them. If you want to be a 
life-long friend of T. J. Harmanys 
you can do it by going away and 
sending her big, fat letters that take 
ages to read. - ,
WINDOW CLEANING 
WALL AND BUILDING WASHING
Aetna Building 
Maintenance Co.
FULL INSURANCE PROTECTION
M. J. WITKO
3816 Butler St. Pittsburgh, Pa.
Telephone SChenley 3652
! MacDONALD BROS., INC.
ENGINEERS
PRODUCTION MANAGEMENT MARKETING
BOSTON, NEW YORK
DETROIT PITTSBURGH CHICAGO
LATHAM MACHINE COMPANY
I
6635 Kelly Street 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Playhouse Presents 
A Van Druten Comedy
Under the direction of Robert 
Gill, Drama 33, the Pittsburgh Play
house will present John van Drutens Old Acquaintance. This play a 
comedy, depicts the troubles that 
arise when a daughter transfers her 
natural parental affections and trust 
from her mother to her mothers 
best friend.
As the friendthe lead rolePol
ly Rowles Snyder, Drama 34, is ex
pected to give a fine performance, 
since she has had experience in 
Hollywood where she was in sev
eral pictures. The mother who feels 
her daughter slipping away from 
her is played by Ruth Fischer, also 
a graduate of the Tech Drama 
School. Elise Cox, Drama 43, return
ed to Pittsburgh this summer for 
the express purpose of playing the 
part of the daughter. This part will 
be her first ingenue in three years. 
Other members of the cast are
.. ACAC Minutes..
The meeting should have been 
caled to order at 5 p.m.
Absent: Messrs. Fairchild, Futchik, Marcus, Peterson, Sher, and 
Wolff, the Misses Beall, Bloom, Rial, 
and Mrs. Marshall.
COMMITTEE REPORTS 
No report.
NEW BUSINESS 
Well, there wasnt any new busi
ness either.
Adjournment.
Respectfuly submitted,
Ye Editor.
Charles Ligget, Ed Mills, Ethel Cow
herd, and Lois Goldstein.
The play is three acts, and there 
are two different sets. One is a 
theatre, and the other is an apart
ment; both in Manhattan. The play 
is also being made into a movie star
ring Betty Davis as the friend. The 
play will open August 10th and run 
until the 21st of August.
SAFEGUARD 
YOUR CASH 
THIS WAY!
Take no chances on your money being lost or stolen, change your cash 
into American Express Travelers Cheques. Spendable everywhere like 
cash, but refunded in full if lost or stolen.
Issued in denominations of $10, $20, $50 and $100. Cost 75* for each 
$ 100. Minimum cost 40* for $ 10 to $ 50. For sale at Banks, Railway Express 
offices, at principal railroad ticket offices.
AMERICAN EXPRESS 
TRAVELERS CHEQUES
BUY MORE 
WAR BONDS 
AND STAMPS
C. E. Moore
Rev. M. A. Vitale 
Acme Printing & 
Stationary Co. 
H. S. Wherrett 
E. S. Tower 
Joseph Kenny, Jr. 
Lippenot Tool & 
Machine Co. 
Dairy Supply & 
Equipment Co.
Aid Soap Mfg. Co. 
Ralph E. Davis 
George Dieke, Jr. 
Mrs. Grant Curry 
Pgh. Steel Co. 
H. Harvey Childs 
Dr ('.lias A. Cravotta 
Fishers Poultry Co. 
Erdner Engineering 
Company

---------------------------------------------------

6THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, AUGUST 10, 1943
No Fool Like An Old Fool!
To Grandmothers House We Godirt colyum
The TARTAN was supposed to 
print, in this issue, the complete de
tails of the production of Ytterbium 
Wumbus Gumbus. Also, give its 
formula down to the last Jumble 
Gumble molecule. However, our star 
reporter is missing in line of duty 
and no one else dares to invade Sargeant Meatballs private laboratory, 
so you dont get the story, so there!
We thought We would be able 
to print this sad letter we got from 
Mrs. Oscar Q. Bothersome thanking 
us for the fine write-up we gave her 
husband, who died the eternal hero 
of the local fly union. This we will 
not do, because Mrs. Bothersome is 
now dead, drowned in a glass of 
milk in the Inn. Cousin Joe also died 
fighting a fly swatter. We wont 
print thatOr we might tell you all about the 
new design of an electric dingus that 
will cut the announcer right off the 
air, leaving only the music for your 
enjoyment. We wont do that be
cause it doesnt work. We are now 
at the point where we would nor
mally supply you, dear reader, with 
ten inches of space and let you sup
ply your own story .This is imprac
tical due to the apparent nature of 
the general run of Carnegie Techites 
with regard to a little extra work.
Someday we will write a dis
course on the Tech steam tunnels. 
Our reporter got scared after he got
BALL 
CHEMICAL CO.
Fulton Bldg. 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
GRACE REFORMED 
CHURCH
Bayard & Dithridge Sts.
REV. KARL A. STEIN, D.D., 
MINISTER
Sunday Morning Services, 11 A. M.
... by
i , Pretty Chummy: . . . Pvt. Whiteyten feet into the one leading out a * .
from Machinery Hall to Industries, Munroe at the bedside of appendixand we now have the extreme task less Gean Baber . . . Marie Sunseri
went to Chambersburg to visit Pvt. 
John Rodenhaver . . . T. J. Harmany 
and Midshipman Bill Spangler  
Sunday, Monday, and Always . . . 
Pvt. Bill McDonald and Salty Bloom 
... Ed Uber and his new landladys 
daughter . . . Helena Aronson and 
some unknown Pi Lambda . . . Beta 
Prexy E. K. Wallace and Lois Frishborn, around Campus . . . Tom Farrah and Kitty ShoemakerWedding Bells for: . . . Babs 
Burns, Dama 43, and Jim MacIntyre 
of Penn State this afternoon. 
Rushing At: ... Delta Upsilon
The dingus that didnt work. f^atured ?ele"J!?UrS   a* Oyen . . . Jams McDonald - . . Helen
of finding a fearless reporter to do Andrews . . . Ruth Rogers . . . also
this job. Hugh Smith with Martha Sekey . . .
At this point we settle down to Joe Eiger with Pat Fulerton . . .
write a story. It concerns a little Frank Showman with Jane Essen
girl who had a mother and a father . . . Sigma Alpha Epsilon featured
and a grandmother who lived off in Carl Stroble with Eleanor Zusiness
the sticks. One day she went out to ... Bill King with Vivian Lawthers
visit her grandmother and met a big . . . Tom Bokman and Virginia Newbad wolf who had been a friend of meyer . . . Theta Xi featured the
Oscar Q. Bothersome, but she es- Sigma Alpha sorority of Peabody
caped him by racing through the High School . . . Beta Theta Pi feaTech steam tunnels. When she tured Tassie Truxall . . . Beckie
emerged from them, she was very Townsend . . . Jean Phipps . . . Janet
hot and tired, and in the middle of Armstrong - . . Mary Jane Dixon . . .
Maggie Murph. Sergeant Meatball Lucille Orr . . . Ginny Sheppard . . .
appeared out of thin air and gave her Frannie Carlock . . . Jose Sunseri
a candy pill containing a millionth . . . Delta Tau Delta featured Bob
of a milligram of YtWumGum, Matuzeski with Alice McKeon . . .
whereupon she became superwoman Merle Wolff with Ruthie Means . . .
and leaped over a hundred miles of John Wolff with Helen Robinson
territory to alight in her grandmoth- . . . Ernie Sandberg with Margarers sitting room. Granny was listen- etha Roush.
ing to the radio which cut out the Seen Around Town: .. - Doris Fast 
announcers voice, only it didnt be- _ Midshipman Bill Lloyd . . . Encause it doesnt work, which all -----------------------------------------------------------
goes to show that theres no sucker Notice
like an old one. That is the moral 
of this story, and heed it well.
Aron Beck
sign Smiley Shaffner . . . 2nd Lt. Vic 
Wrazlowsky.
Miscellaneous: ... Ed Schatz, 
Phi Kappa, had a weekend date with 
Mureen Dyer and spent Monday 
morning discussing little things 
with Ginny Wrigfct. . . Helen Parish 
received a going away corsage from 
Tau Delt Gerald Brickman . . . 
Techs newest addition to the Phys
ics staff has been well initiated into 
the intricacies of a night at the 
Greeks . . . Marcia Wachter was 
about the Tech Campus yesterday
VARSITY FOOTBALL 
CANDIDATES
BENSON & 
DRAGAR
Engineers 
  
PITTSBURGH, PA.
All civilian students, Upperclass
men, Freshmen, or transfer students, 
who are interested in trying out for 
the Varsity football team please reg
ister at the Office of the Director of 
Intercollegiate Athletics, Room 192, 
Mens Gymnasium. Football practice 
will begin on August 30th. It is im
portant that all candidates register 
at once. In order to take part in Var
sity Athletics, all candidates must 
be taking a degree course of 36 or 
more units.
THOMAS MACHINE MFG. CO. 
Butler Road 
Sharpsburg, Pa.
Carlson 
Contracting Co.
3964 Greensburg Pike 
BRADDOCK, PA.
  
Pin-up girl of the ASTP.
with her latest flame . . . Texas 
Bob Hasler, Theta Xi, has his heart 
really set on Helen Stabile . . . Iris 
Kwall has announced her wedding 
date; its the middle of December 
. . . Ex-Theta Xi house manager 
Dan Kahl is that way about Mildred 
Murrer. ?
Rumors: . - . The above pictured 
cut is an admirable likeness of one 
of the pin-up girls selected by the 
Army Specialized Training Program 
men here at Tech . . . Another se
lection was Winifred Brozda . . . 
Pvt. Bob Scott and several other 
ASTP men will be leaving our fair 
campuswhat will Mae of the Gay 
Nineties lounge do now?
If Anybody Wants to Know: . . . 
It was the summer Senior Staff of 
the Carnegie Tartan that kept the 
Greeks alive with song until twothirty oclock last Friday night cele
brating this last summer issue. A 
good time was had by all.
BLUESTONE 
METAL CO.
Corliss Station 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
GEORGE P. DEMPLER COMPANY
Industrial Consulting Engineers 
LEhigh 2445 Pittsburgh, (16) Pa. P. 0. Box 8028
Filters and strainers: Cuno, Fulflo, LeVal Pumps: variable volume control, 
Yale & Towne Agitators, mixing equipment: New England Tank & Tower 
Bearings: ball or roller, Chapman Transmission Corp. Hydraulic and lu
bricating systems and devices.
BANK OF BRENTWOOD
BRENTWOOD, PITTSBURGH, PA.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, AUGUST 10, 1943THE CARNEGIE TARTAN7
Carnegie Department of Athletics 
Has Full Program For ASTP Boys
By Jim Montague
Each ASTP boy receives six hours 
of physical training a week. One 
hour is devoted to acquatics, one to 
combatives, one to gymnastics, one 
to track and the obstacle course and 
to cross country, and two hours to 
team sports.
Acquatics, which is coached by 
Mr. Moses, Mr. Sofield, and Mr.
Irwin, consists of swimming exer
cises, underwater swimming, and 
swimming under difficult conditions; 
swimming when fully dressed and 
when burning oil (imaginary) is 
spread over the water.
Combatives, boxing and wrestling, 
are taught by Mr. Sesto and Mr.
Alexander, the boxing and wrest
ling coaches. Included in this course 
are ju-jitsu and dirty fighting.
Mr. Harsky, the former fencing 
coach, and Mr. Zahniser have charge 
of gymnastics. These two men give 
the soldiers body-building and mus
cle-coordinating exercises, including 
instruction on how to fall without 
getting hurt, and tumbling, to de
velop their sense of timing and bal
ance.
The soldiers run the track and ob
stacle course under the guidance of 
Mr. Adams to develop their wind 
and endurance.
For relaxation, they engage in 
team sports, led by Mr. OConnor, 
the soccer coach, Mr. Ewing, and Mr.
Irwin.
On June 11th, the ASTP men were 
tested by Mr. Risedorph, the swim
ming coach, for their physical abili
ty- The first three tests were given 
one day, and the last four the next.
The men were instructed not to ex
haust themselves on one test, but to 
save themselves for all the tests. The 
tests were taken in G. I. uniforms, 
the ones you see the army wearing 
around school. Here are the results:
Co.A. av. Co.B av.
Push ups .............. 17.8 19.1
Squat jumps ........ 37.9 37.5
Sit-ups .................... 35.8 34.6
Pull-ups (chinning) 44.8 45.5
100 yd. pick-a-back 28.2 sec. 27.6 sec.
Burpee 20.............. 10.1 10.7
300 yd. run .......... 55.9 sec. 55.3 sec.
The results from the second group 
of tests recently given have not yet 
been tabulated, but it can be stated 
that there has been a general imAbout Interest; In Tech Teams
By Chuck Peterson, Sports Editor
Photo by Bill Gorog
Paul Rosenberg, one of the A. S. 
T. P. boys, runs in one of the races 
which are part of their Physical 
Program.
provement in the soldiers physical 
condition.
One of the most important phases 
of the armys physical training pro
gram is acquatics. A surprisingly 
high percentage of the soldiers com
ing to Tech cant swim. In this war, 
much of the fighting is being done 
over, on, and under the water. The 
Japs took Hong Kong with swim
ming troops. One of our soldiers, 
participating in the invasion of 
Sicily, swam four round trips towing 
his buddies to shore when his in
vasion barge was sunk. The soldiers 
at Tech are being conditioned to ac
complish similar feats. So, soldier, 
next time youre sweating blood un
der the blazing sun or drowning in 
chlorinated water, remember that 
the more you take now, the more 
youll be able to dish out to some 
German or JapSome of the individual high scor
ers were:
Pull upsB. Buell (13)
Burpee twentyJ. Brown (16)
100 Yard PickabackA Kondrup 
Sit UpsN. Neiderhauser (101) 
Squat JumpsW. Ward (80)
300 Yd. RunJ. Moorman (46 sec)
DE LU TOOL & MACHINE WORKS 
700 Walnut St. 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
RAISLER CORPORATION
Contractors Engineers
215 W. Eighth Avenue 
HOMESTEAD
The war has cut deeply into all 
forms of inter-collegiate athletics 
during the past year, necessitating 
small schedules for all varsity 
teams, due to restricted travel fa
cilities and a limited number of 
schools with which to schedule 
games. Therefore, the average stu
dent has but little chance to go out 
and watch his school teams battle 
it out with some other squad. How
ever, the few games or matches 
which have been played during this 
past year have seen very poor stu
dent turnouts, especially here at 
Tech. Last Fall the Stadium looked 
bare, with only a handful of faith
ful students turning out to watch 
each foothall game. Basketball 
games, although they drew fair 
crowds, were never full to capacity, 
while the swimming, track, and ten
nis teams drew a pitifully small at
tendance. This shouldnt be the case, 
yet it is typical of student response 
to anything at all nowadays. Per
haps this small amount of interest in 
varsity athletics can be blamed on 
the war, but in that case, the lack 
of interest could be directly trace
able to a transfer to the war effort. 
However, even interest in the war 
effort is very definitely lacking 
among Tech students, who ofttimes 
dont seem to remember that there 
is a war in process. Even though 
most of the students will deny this 
statement, it is still true.
It has often been said that the first 
World War was won on the playing # 
fields of Eton. Likewise, this war 
will be won on the playing fields of 
the American schools and colleges, 
but it will not be won by the play
ers alone, it will be won in part by 
the fans who have learned to sup
port a cause with enthusiasm. That 
is the wartime importance of good 
attendance at athletic contests. The 
individuals who make up the crowd
Help the War Effort by saving and 
selling your Waste Paper to the
Pennsylvania Paper 
Stock Co.
518-26 First Avenue 
Phone CO. 1541 Pittsburgh, Pa.
The House of Dependability.
W. Reed Byrom
Home Modernization and 
General Repairs
1203 Gibbon Street 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Phone ATlantic 7496
Pearson Mfg. Co.
Boiler Manufacturers 
and Distributors 
800 Beaver Avenue 
Phone CEdar 3300
are learning the important funda
mentals of how to put their all 
behind the home teamWell, weve tried now to forego 
the athletics and start from the be
ginning to put all of our support be
hind the war effort, but so far this 
has failed, since very few of us as 
yet are wholeheartedly in support 
of the war. Therefore, lets try an
other method. Get behind the school 
teams, and try to learn the princi
ples of giving full support to some 
cause, be it an athletic team or be 
it the war effort. It wont mean that 
we will have to divide our attention 
between two causes. It will simply 
mean that we can devote some of 
our leisure time to another type of 
recreation through which we would 
be learning to support a team with 
all of our enthusiasm.
In case you students want some 
good excitement this week, a good 
place to find it will be on the cut 
where the finals of the mushball 
season will be in progress starting 
at four oclock. Cameron Hall and 
the second platoon of Company B 
will play off the championship of 
League I and the winner of that 
game will enter into a round robin 
with Citcom and A-l for the school 
championship. These should all be 
close games as the competing teams 
are the class of the campus.
FASHION 
HOSIERY SHOPS
FULL FASHIONED HOSIERY
Over 20 Stores in Pittsburgh District 
Nearest Store 
3713 FORBES STREET OAKLAND
Grant B. Shipley
Engineering 
Kppers Bldg. 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Fort Pitt is the Place 
to Rent
TYPEWRITERS
ALL
MAKES
 $3.00 per 
Month
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
The TARTAN Presents ...
A Freshman And His Woes
TUESDAY, AUGUST 10, 1943
The wee-smalls had long since 
come and gone when Joe Freshmans 
long overdue train pulled in at the 
station. Now came the problem of 
where to spend what little was left 
of the night. Half a dozen calls on 
the free cab phone at the station 
succeeded in bringing a taxi. The 
choice of a place to sleep was left 
to the driver, who took his chargg 
to a fine flop house on Fifth with a 
sight-seeing trip around Schenley 
Park thrown in for only twenty-five 
cents the first mile. The proprietor 
of the establishment assured Joe 
that he would have a good nights 
rest, and escorted him to the third 
floor back, carefully avoiding the 
huddled figures sleeping on the 
steps. Joe was thrilled. His first 
taste of Pittsburgh, and he had even 
been able to see a converter through 
the smog.
The next morning he was rudely 
awakened at seven to allow time to 
get to Tech. After a quick breakfast 
he was off on the great adventure. 
He stepped cautiously on a seventythree car, carefuly paying as he en
tered. Out at Highland Park he re
alized his mistake and started to 
back track. With about two minutes 
to go he puffed onto the campus, 
screaming for someone to tell him 
where Industries Hall is. Stopping 
in moderate amazement when he 
found himself in Administration, he 
noticed a group, as green-looking as 
he, staring with profound interest 
at a bronze placque of some old gent 
on the wall. One, more worldlywise than the rest, broke the news 
that the old boy was Techs first 
president Hammerschlag. A buzzer 
sounds ominously, and the group 
streamed upstairs.
After waiting a few minutes in 
line, he was presented with his train 
ticket. He gyrated to the tables with 
the rest of the neophytes, and pro
ceeded to write his wrist off. An
other trip through the line, and class 
coupons appeared in his hand. Two 
for ROTC were snatched back, and 
he rushed over for his physical. The 
usual setup of Hold this over your 
right eye and read the chart. Open 
wide. Bend over. All right. Now 
cough. Some band pushed hard on 
his arm, and the Doctor announced, 
OK. You pass.
After lunch it started over, with 
a meeting in IH 104. Finding the 
room was no little achievement, but 
soon everything was going right 
along. The big boys talked to him, 
telling him he was a Damn fool 
for not taking ROTC. As soon as this 
was over, things started to pop. The 
frats were out in earnest, each one 
jumping for a chance at one of the 
few prospective pledges. Someone 
cornered Joe, telling him that they 
would like him to look over the 
house and meet the fellows. Joe pro
tested that he still had to get his 
books, but that was speedily taken 
care of.
Down to the book store, buying 
everything in sight. Trig, algebra, 
tables, chem, physics, problem and 
lab books, English text and reader, 
handbook, paper, drawing equip
ment, and heaven knows what else. 
The pleas for slipsticks went un
answered, but there was still hope. 
Loaded to the brim with the little 
things that go to make up a college
education, he slipped out of the gen
eral maelstrom. The man with the 
orange box made his appearance, 
and the brother-actives took over, 
lavishing an ice-cream bar on un
suspecting Joe.
Finally the caravan arrived at the 
house. Joe was already signed to live 
there, which left him at a decided 
disadvantage. The usual run of 
trophies did their usual job of mak
ing Joe wonder if the fraternity ran 
primarily as a prize-winning organ
ization. He was then shown up to 
his room, via the FRONT STAIRS, 
mind you.
Unpacking reared its ugly head. 
Shoes were strewn under, on, and 
just around the bed. Shirts landed 
somewhere near the assigned draw
er, and pants folded themselves in 
neat wrinkles over severely ration
ed hangers. Room-mates werq intro
duced, and each new arrival had his 
hand eagerly squeezed to the point 
of stopping the circulation.
The chimes called out Fifteen 
minutes before dinner. Dressed in 
his finest, Joe descended, still by the 
front stairs, to the dining room. A 
dinner showing off the best in the 
house was culminated by vigorous 
shreiking of the boys favorite songs 
and the announcement that 
would be amusement provided in 
the basement for the new arrivalsJoe heaved a sigh and staggered 
away from the table.
He thought perhaps it would be 
best to slip into
Books pile up. Joe stops at 
bookstore to outfit himself for the 
coming semester.
cooler before tackling a hard game 
of ping-pong. Out came the wash 
suit, and the change was effected. 
The little ball was batted around 
frbm paddle to coke bottle, and the 
pool cues rapped happily off the side 
of tfye balls. The actives demonstrat
ed their unusual versatility by just 
beating the best and the poorest 
players. Late at night Joe pulled one 
foot after the other up the stairs. 
Clothes piled themselves in disor
derly mounds on chairs, and Joe col
lapsed in bed. The big day was over.
at right:
First contact with faculty, Joe 
Freshman ponders over the placque 
of Pres. Hammerschlagg.
below:
The fraternities take over. Joe 
gets rushed by all of them at onceThe trophies neatly paraded for the'enlightenment and bewilderment 
of the prospective pledge.
Unpacking. Everything goes right 
to the proper place, of course.Bed at last. The big day was just too much for Joe. The poor boy 
wasnt good for any mare.
