rOL. 42No. 6_______ CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA. WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1948
Rainmakers 
5rayers Are 
Answered
Women Students Help 
To Assure Success 
Of Initiatory Rites
i Pittsburgh, Oct. 14 (CT). 
Voodoo rain makers descended 
upon the Carnegie Tech campus 
here in the early morning hours 
today. And though the sky was 
cloudless, their ceremonial chants 
of We want rain were answered 
if by magic when torrential 
ownpours beat down upon their 
ads.
I The rain creating ritual began 
shortly after midnight with the 
invasion of the rooms of fresh
man men in the dormitories on 
Margaret Morrison street. Shout
ing upperclassmen aroused the 
uninitiated campus newcomers 
and began investing them with 
the rites of Plubius Bencomen 
by assembling in varied attire in 
the dormitory area.
With the freshman group com
pletely encircled by chortling up
perclassmen the party moved 
across the campus awakening all 
in its path until it arrived at the 
sacrificial altar, the court of the 
new Morewood Gardens dormitory 
for women.
Hearing the slight murmuring 
in the court, occupants of Morewood Gardens arose to discover 
the solemn rites being held be
neath their windows.
Suddenly, as if by magic, drop
lets of water began to descend. 
Then, as the ceremony became 
more frenzied, the downpour in
creased until it came in torrents, 
crowning the efforts of the pious 
worshipers with success.
[Continued on page 3]
Council Notice
The following organizations 
have not submitted satisfactory 
budgets to Student Council: 
Cwens, Delta Skull, Film Arts, 
Form magazine, International 
Relations club, Margaret Mor
rison senate, Scimitar, and Var
sity C club. These organiza
tions must have their budgets 
approved by October 27. If 
they fail to do so, they will be 
suspended until the budgets are 
approved.
Womens Guild 
Defends Itself
Awards Scholarships 
To Worthy Students
Womens Guild, whose president 
last week convinced Student Coun
cil that it should approve the or
ganizational budget, has as its 
primary purpose the raising of 
funds for special scholarships for 
women students at CIT.
These scholarships, in the form 
of cash grants, are awarded on the 
basis of ability, character and 
need. Annual awards total be
tween $200 and $400 and may be 
used at the recipients discretion.
Financially, the Guild is inde
pendent of Student Council. Its 
funds are raised through divi
dends on stock investment, an an
nual dance, and two tag-selling 
days.
Members of the Guild represent 
each of 32 campus organizations 
whose membership includes wom
en. Organizations contributing one 
representative each to the Guild 
include sororities, publications, 
honoraries and student governing 
bodies.
Record Crowd Of Students, 
Alumni Enjoy Homecoming
Students Encouraged 
To Use School Facilities
Campus organizations are now able to use school facilities for 
meetings and social affairs at a minimum cost to the group. A new 
plan to encourage student groups to use the campus for its activities 
has been proposed by Dean of Men James Dickinson and ap
proved by an administrative com-4-----
Pictured above at the Freshman Queen coronation on the Cut 
Saturday morning are Queen Nancy Davis, center, and her at
tendants Pat Dittler, left, and Nancy Godden, right.
Vesper
The Reverend Frank Hutch
inson will speak on Islam at 
the Sunday evening vesper 
service in the Union on October 
24. This will be the third in a 
series of discussions of the ten 
great religions of the modern 
world. The program will start 
at 7 p. m. with a brief devotion
al service, followed by Rev. 
Hul.chinsons talk, a discussion 
period, and a social hour.
mittee
Under the new system small or
ganizations with special religious, 
educational or social interests will 
find it financially profitable to hold 
business and social meetings at 
school rather than off campus. 
Events held for the purpose of 
raising money for some objec-ive such as scholarships will be 
subject to a minimum charge or 
no charge at all for the use of 
school facilities.
Major social events which are 
planned to be self-supporting, 
however, are expected to budget 
costs according to the present 
rates in order to provide for nor
mal expenses such as janitorial 
work, materials, and the moving 
of equipment. Extra labor or ma
terial will be billed to the spon
soring organization at cost. Such 
events include Spring Carnival 
and all-school dances.
The administrative committee 
which approved the new plan has 
^rged that Student Council estab
lish a fund each year for a sup
ply of equipment and decorations 
to be loaned or rented to other 
school organizations.
Responsibility for the assign
ment of facilities to campus 
groups rests with the Dean of 
Men and the Dean of Women. Stu
dents in charge of arrangements 
organizations affairs and 
ig to use campus facilities 
requested to consult either of 
on questions of procedComing To The Little Theatre
Scabbard And Blade Schedules 
Military Ball For November 6JFour Honorary Officers To Be Commissioned; 
Sororities, Dorm Name Candidates For Honors
Scabbard and Blade, national military honor society, will pre
sent its annual Military ball in the gym on Saturday, November 
6, at 9:00 p. m. Although the ball is being sponsored by the ROTC, 
it is open to the whole school. Dress will be formal, and tickets,
will be on sale at Skibo 
weeks before the dance, will 
$2.50 per couple.
The highlight of the evening 
will be the commissioning of an 
honorary colonel and three hon
orary lieutenant colonels. The 
girls who receive these cherished 
positions wil be elected by the 
entire ROTC regiment.
The candidates for the honorary 
commisisons, chosen by their re
spective organizations are: Helen 
Brody, Dorothy Kane  Kappa 
Kappa Gamma; Linda Cowan, 
Nancy Williams  Kappa Alpha 
Theta; Wanda Forsythe, Carol Ro
denDelta Delta Delta; Theresa 
Vahanian, Nancy Bornscheuer 
Sigma Kappa; Francis Rea, Suzy 
DreuxDelta Gamma; Lou Perlot, Jean Miller^-Chi Omega; Dor
othy Kaye, Helene MillerAlpha 
Epsilon Phi; Charlotte Meister and 
Anne MerrimanCitcom.
In addition to the above men
tioned organizations the girls of 
Morewood Gardens have named 
the following candidates: Lyn
Gasche, Sally HutchinsonTower 
A; Mary Ann Wilson, Mary Elea
nor Foster  Tower B; Suzanne 
Menger, Mary SteeleTower C; 
Catherine Murphy and Bootsie 
StevensonTower D.
The regiment will cast its votes 
on October 28 during drill period. 
On November 3 the Tartan will 
announce the four girls with the 
highest number of votes. Because 
it is the desire of the election 
committe to withhold the name 
f the honorary colonel until the 
dance, the order in which the four 
girls placed will be kept secret.
Music for the evening will be 
provided by Baron Elliot and his 
orchestra.
Military Ball committee chair
men, under the direction of gen
eral chairman Bill Zoller, are: 
publicity, Pat McCurdy and Bud 
Fertig; decorations, John Mays; 
election, Bill Booth; and tickets, 
John Day.
Adventurer Graham Young will show his 16 mm. color film, 
Light on Darkest Africa, during his appearance at a student as
sembly in the Little Theatre at 11:30 a. m. on October 26.
One of the first color films to come out of South Africa since 
the war, it tells of the progress of a primitive people toward civili
zation. The movie also features secret native rites and elephant 
hunts.
Seven years of Youngs life was spent in Africa studying the 
art and culture of these primitive natives. It is believed that he is the 
only white man to have filmed the secret initiation ceremonies of 
the African tribes.
Nancy Davis 
Named Queen 
For Weekend
Kappa Sigma Takes 
Decoration Prize; 
Frosh Win Contest
Homecoming weekend has left 
behind a trail of outstanding 
events, new traditions and happy 
memories. Two dances, corona
tion of freshman queen, colorful 
fraternity displays, and the freshman-sophomore contest were 
among the highlights of the gala 
celebration.
Capture of the coveted flag of 
the class of 51 by freshman Jos
eph Winklmann provided a thrill 
during the greased pole contest 
between freshman and sophomore 
men.
Lovely Queen Nancy Davis be
gan her rule during coronation 
ceremonies which preceded the 
freshman-sophomore contest. Ac
companied by her attendants, Pat 
Dittler and Nancy Godden, the 
queen presided over the remain
ing affairs of the afternoon and 
evening.
Kappa Sigma fraternity accept
ed the Homecoming display cup 
on behalf of their animated farm
er who milked a cow and pro
claimed, Im pulling for Tech. 
The presentation was made during 
the intermission of Saturdays 
dance by Miss Davis. Second place 
went to Sigma Nus shmoos.
Publications 
Discussed 
At Meeting
Disapproval Aimed 
At Recent Issue 
Of Scottie Magazine
Publications responsibility to 
the school in the matter of the ma
terial they select for publishing 
was discussed at an extraordinary 
meeting of the Publications com
mittee of Student Council held 
recently.
Attending the meeting also were 
Deans Miner, Dickinson, and Da
vid and Stanley March and 
Anthony Antin of the Public Re
lations office.
Although much of the empha
sis of the meeting was placed 
upon an explanation of the 
schools attitude toward publica
tions, it was made clear that the 
precipitating cause of the meeting 
was the reaction from the pub
lic to the latest issue of the Scot
tie magazine.
Dean Miner described the actual 
and potential effects of disapprov
al by the public of student publi
cations in general, and the speci
fic objections that were made to 
the recent Scottie.
Members of the Publications 
committee present were asked for 
their opinions on handling the 
problem faced by this meeting. 
Lee Wiley, committee chairman, 
suggested that student publication 
heads be immediately informed of 
any objections to their publica
tions.

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1948Carnegie Tartan
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes St., Pittsburgh, Pa. 
TELEPHONE: SC. 4557; after hours MU. 5365, SC. 8951. Published weekly during the school year, except holidays 
nd examination periods, by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Editor-in-Chief .................................................... Robert W. JohnsonBusiness Manager ........................................................... Samuel MosesAssociate Editor ....................................................... Burton L. Epstein ,
Personnel Manager ..................................................... Jay H. Johnson
New# EditorRobert Kubiak, Features EditorGerald E. Peck, Chief Copy EditorThomas P. Murray, Sports Editor Paul Offermann, Makeup EditorRobert Cloud, Art Editor 'Russell F. Kulberg, Advertising ManagerArthur G. Zuch, 
Circulation ManagerLewis S. Sternberg.Copy EditorPat Petrick, Headline EditorMyra-Jane Barry. Proof EditorJohn Braun, Asst. Business ManagerHerbert Stone, Asst. Advertising ManagerMalcolm B. Sama- kow, Chief ReportersJohn K. Fockler, William Johns, Bennard Perlman, Catherine Rudy, Ruby Weisberg, Chief Sports ReporterBill Dom, Chief PhotographerWilliam D. 
Benswanger.Copy StaffMary Cauffield, Robert Heckert, Analee Gelman. 
Features StaffA. Starke Dischell.ReportersJo Crisanti, Frances Hamborsky, Bea Patterson, 
Angela Pollis.Cub ReportersHilda Chottiner, Jane Conner, Bee Potter,
Marian Schrag, Anita Tambellini, Nancy Will.Sports StaffRobert Dougherty, Charles King, Warren Lithgow, Frederick Lunt.Photography StaffRichard Deininger.Business StaffMorty Baker, Edmund Denburg, Shirlee Goldenfeld, Dave Steiner, Bob Powers, Mitch Bachon.TypistsElizabeth Asche, Wilma Dickson, Rodda Dean.
Represented for national advertising by NATIONAL ADVERTISING, Inc., College Publishers Representative, 420 Madison 
Ave., New York City. Subscription $1.10 per year.
Entered as second class matter on Oct. 4, '.907 at Ihe
Post Office at Pittsburgh, Pa., under the Act of March 3, 
1879. Accepted for mailing at special rate at postage pro
vided io* in the Act of February 28, 1925. Authorized Octo
ber 21, 1918.
Editorials
A Good Cause
The annual drive of the Community Chest 
will be starting shortly on the Carnegie camp
us. Each year in the past CIT students have 
come through with record contributions, and 
there is no reason to believe that they will 
fail this year.
The 92 Community Chest agencies in Al
legheny county serve everyone in the county 
and are not just another charity. Giving 
support to these agencies is your recognition of 
their value and your firm vote that they should 
continue providing their services.
For Her, Posies
A common complaint among college news
paper editors is that their respective campuses 
are terribly lacking in school spirit. They 
continually ask, Wont somebody please do 
something about it? We have rather stu
diously avoided such pleading, feeling that it 
would have little, if any, effect. Peelings can
not be forced into students any more than they 
can into any other people.
In the last week, however there have been 
evidences that the long period of waiting for 
some sort of spirit to develop at CIT is at 
an end. Perhaps it was the excitement of 
Homecoming in the air, but we prefer to think 
that the w7ar is over so far as collegiate at
titudes are concerned". .
The ceremonies in the Morewood Gardens 
eourt on Wednesday night, the freshmansophomore competition, the turnout for Home
coming, and the general air of festiveness all 
lead one to the conclusion that perhaps at long 
last the chill left by the blaze, tired veteran 
has lost its potency.
But even though conditions seem favorable 
right now for a renaissance of spirit, we feel 
that this rebirth wrould not have begun with
out the work of a few tireless individuals who 
have devoted themselves to its accomplishment.
To say that one individual has done more 
than any other may be unfair, but we would 
like to go on record as commending Miss Lyn 
Gasche as the one person who has done most 
to bring about this revival of spirit.
An enumeration of her activities this fall 
a founder of the Pep Squad, cheerleader, 
president of Cwensonly hints at the tremen
dous amount of time and energy she has put 
into really doing something about what every
one else talks about.
Perhaps Carnegie Tech would have awak
ened without her work, but we doubt it high
ly. Now that the ball is rolling we trust that 
rest of the campus will not let her work
CIT-Chat
By Jack Johnson
The announcement that the Tartan intends to 
focus a news spotlight on Inter-Fraternity council 
undertakings comes as a welcome divergence in 
policy. In the past, shrouded IF agendas and prob
lems have often been restricted to editorial com
ment. This has left the impression that IF ac
complishments provide a means for producing a 
column when there is nothing else to write about.
As a matter of fact, this particular space has 
been graced with several treatises on the subject 
during the past year. However, the reiteration of 
what was said before and the interjection of some 
new ideas seems appropriate at a time when the 
school year is just shifting into high gear.
Improvements On The Way
If we are to take the apparent changes in the 
general tone of IF proceedings as an indication of 
things to come, this year should see many im
provements in administration-fraternity-indepen
dent relations. At present a move is afoot to re
write the constitution, an indication that there is 
at least an awareness of the necessity of change 
in an outmoded foundation.
Furthermore, there seems to be an insistance 
that fraternity representatives have full power to 
vote yea or nay on behalf of their respective hous
es without letting a week or more elapse to allow 
for a referendum on every issue that arises.
No More Middle Men
As a result of this, most fraternities are rep
resented by their presidents, thus eliminating the 
possibility of losing important information through 
middle men.
These signs, insignificant as they seem, may 
point the way to a new and improved era in fra
ternity history at Carnegie.
Encroachment Feared
Judging from past performance, it would ap
pear that the tight circle of a restrictive society 
within the individual houses has given rise to an 
expectancy of attempted encroachment on the 
Natural rights of this circle each time something 
new is proposed from an external source. Perhaps 
the effect of this attitude is unintentional to some 
degree, but the dangers of such a philosophy pro
jected into the more intricate realms of life re
quire but a fleeting conjecture to indicate that the 
sapling is, in reality, as undesirable as the full 
grown tree.
It should be apparent that fraternity men as 
individuals and collectively have identical prob
lems to face, whether they be Phi Kaps, ,Delts, 
Tau Delts, or Kappa Sigs. However, this hypo
thesis has been all too elusive to the men who 
unquestionably make up the most important group 
on campus from the standpoint of extra-curricular 
activities, if not from all standpoints.
There Is Mutual Distrust
Consequently, many progressive plans have 
died a premature death because of mutual dis
trust among individual fraternity men. This atti
tude instilled in the representatives has caused 
IF to be shackled many times on important issues.
A turn in this new direction could help InterFraternity council become a rallying point for 
fraternities rather than a clearing committee for 
general information which could be presented on 
any bulletin board.
Letter To The Editor
Homecoming Work 
Is Appreciated
Editor, the Tartan
Now that the big Homecoming weekend is 
past and we are settling down into a more easy
going life, I would like to extend my personal 
thanks to the countless people who have done so 
much to put Carnegie Tech on the way to having 
a great Homecoming every year.
So, to the committee heads, the members of their 
committees, to Delta Skull, Scimitar, Cwens, Citcom, and Mens Dorm council, and to the many 
individuals, both students and members of the 
faculty and administration who did so much to 
make the weekend the great success it was, I 
offer my sincerest congratulations.
I feel sure that the experience gained, and the 
enthusiasm built up this year will contribute heav
ily toward making this one of the big annual cele
brations on this campus in the future.
William L. Anderson 
i H I -* 1, Homecoming Chairman.
Vu
Drama Students Put On Radio 
Program In Their Spare Time
Do you want to sponsor a radio program: If you do, youre the 
angel that Kenneth L. Campbell, of Fine Arts drama department, 
and station WEDO, McKeesport, is looking for. Campbell is the producer-director of a dramatic program, The Second Balcony, which 
is heard from 3:05 to 3:30 p. m.4-
each Sunday at 810 on the dial.
Banded together as the WEDO 
Players are a group of Carnegie 
drama students that include Bill 
Baughn, Pat Specht, Phil Flad, 
Faiga Goldsman, Paul Milikan, 
Charles Larkin, Jack Eames, Jane 
Harris, Martha Lewin, Gay Jor
dan, Beverly Fried, and Angela 
Paton.
. The Second Balcony began as 
The Summer Theatre of the Air, 
with CIT students who turned 
their hands to everything from 
writing the scripts to concocting 
the sound effects. Today, six 
months later, the major problem 
is still that of getting scripts 
worthy of production. Campbell 
anneunces that he is interested in 
reading original scripts written by
Carnegie writers.
The aim of the group eventually 
is to do only original scripts. The 
first show was produced on June 
23, 1948. The series will run 
through the entire winter, and 
next summer it will continue as a 
transcribed program.
Campbell, who is a native of 
Pittsburgh, intends to work to
ward a career in radio. He says 
that he knew the radio group was 
slated for success the day he ar
rived at the studio and found that 
a member of the cast had fastened 
a four-leaf clover to each script.
Rehearsals take place in spare 
moments which are few and far 
between because the actors are 
cast in CIT plays as well and are 
usually studying several roles at 
a time.
3 Hour Dry Cleaning
Raincoats Showerproofed
Quick Laundry Service
CAMPUS CLEANERS
4609 Forbes St.MUseum 1288
(JtMj
mou
"tevesf
contains Viratol
NIW FORMULA WITH VIRATOL*
works wonders in the 
looks of your hair.
It looks natural__
it feels natural, 
and it stays in 
place! Try a bottle.
*Tfns iptcial compound gives lustre.. 
keeps hair in place without stiffness.
new Vaseline cream hair tonic

---------------------------------------------------

EDNESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1948THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
Pledge Meets 
Planned By IF
Chapter Officers Also 
Set To Hold Meetings
Inter-fraternity pledge meet
ings, successfully inaugurated last 
year under the guidance of Interfratemity council, will be contin
ued this year, it was decided at 
the IF meeting last week.
The pledge council, to begin 
operation soon, will furnish an 
opportunity for the pledges to hold 
joint stag parties, discuss mutual 
problems, and exchange ideas.
Council president Lee Wiley 
suggested that meetings also be 
held among the treasurers, the 
social chairmen, and the house 
managers of all the houses, and 
the first of such meetings were 
scheduled for this week.
Tarquins Hold Tryouts 
For Aspiring Swimmers
Girls interested in swimming 
for the Tarquin club may try out 
on October 26. Miss Betty Hart
man, gym instructor, directs 
the activities of the club. This 
year these activities will include 
a water show and a sports day on 
which the club will meet swim
ming teams from other schools, 
among them Pitt and P.C.W.
Got It!
Sophomore hearts sink as a 
freshman climbs high enough on 
greased pole to capture coveted 
class of 51 flag.
Rainmakers
[Continued from page 1]
Having successfully undergone 
their initiation, the neophytes 
were acclaimed full fledged mem
bers of the order, and as they 
sang their recessional, Good 
Night, Ladies, happily trudged 
back to their books and beds.
ITS GOOD BUSINESS
rOL.4 2.N.Loo6OL o_C_L is doing all it can to 
attract new industries . . . for new industries are 
good business for the state and for its citizens.
If Pennsylvania could attract a new industry in 
which nearly one out of every 100 of its citizens 
would have a personal stake, either as an employee 
or an investor, what a great accomplishment that 
would be.
And if the new industry were to pay these 
people more than $100,000,000 in a single year, 
what a great thing that would be for Pennsylvania 
business and professional men.
And if the employees of the new industry 
resided in cities and towns throughout the state, 
what a boon that would be for local communities.
And if the new industry were to provide a service 
which all citizens of the state would use, what a 
vital industry that would be to everybody.
Pennsylvania already has an industrynot a 
new one, eitherthat meets those specifications 
to the letter.
It is this company, and it is growing every year.
English Dept. 
Schedules 
Informal Talks
A series of informal talks by 
members of the English depart
ment is planned for Carnegie stu
dents, faculty and staff members, 
their wives and friends.
The talks will be given in the 
Margaret Morrison Assembly hall 
at 3:30 p. m.
The schedule for the fall semes
ter is as follows:
Otcober 22: Gladys Schmitt,
Writing the Historical Novel. 
November 5: Donald M. Goodfellow, American Fiction in the 
Jazz Age.
November 12: Austin Wright, 
The Literary Sleuth.
December 3: Bebe Spanos, The 
Artisiic Creed of Henry James. 
December 10: S. W. Lipsman, 
Contemporary American Drama: 
An Evaluation.
January 7: William M. Schutte, 
James Joyce: The Man. 
January 21: Erwin R. Steinberg, 
James Joyce: The Craftsman.
College Radio 
Show Planned
WPGH Asks Help Thru 
Student Talent, Ideas
Students interested in contribut
ing time, effort, ideas, or talent to 
a new college radio program being 
planned by WPGH are invited to 
submit their names to Mary Con
ley of the station staff at EM. 5000.
The program is being designed 
particularly to appeal to collegiate 
appetites in radio, and it is hoped 
that a large part of the talent on 
the program will be from the vari
ous Pittsburgh campuses.
Tentative plans call for the 
show to be broadcast for the first 
time on November 6 around noon. 
Since no definite format has been 
adopted yet, any persons who wish 
to contribute to it are cordially in
vited to do so.
Special Lunches for 
Students and Businessmen
11:00 A. M.2:00 P. M. 40c and UP
AUTHENTIC CHINESE DISHES
also
AMERICAN DISHES SERVED
Bamboo Gardens
3531 FORBES STREET 
MA. 7493
THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY 
OF PENNSYLVANIA
RODGER'S 
DAIRY
Try our
HAMBURGERS
Made with 100% pure beef 
U. S. Government inspected
LARGE MILK SHAKES
Made with pure whole 
milk
RODGER'S
Oairy Stores
3905 FORBES STREET 
Near Boquet 
4619 CENTER AVENUE 
Near Craig 
5414 WALNUT STREET 
Shadyside 
Other stores downtown
Dee Moore Fights, 
Saves Womens Guild
First Constitution Changes Made; 
New Organizations Are Founded
With the death of Womens Guild imminent, Dee Moore, 
president of the organization, came before Council last week 
to defend its usefulness. Following her plea, Council approved
the budget for the Guild and thus
For Emergencies
All students who did not en
ter their Pittsburgh addresses 
on their registration forms 
should report to the Registrars 
Office as soon as they have es
tablished a permanent Pitts
burgh address. It is vital that 
this information be submitted 
to provide means of reaching 
the students in case of emer
gency.
Creative Writing 
Prizes Offered To 
Undergraduates
Authors of six commercial types 
of creative writing are eligible to 
enter the first annual contest 
sponsored by the National Fine 
Arts Award, Inc.
The six categories are the full 
length play, the radio script, the 
popular song, the screen original, 
the short story and the short 
short. A $2000 first prize, a $1000 
second prize and four $500 prizes 
will be awarded in each category. 
Also awarded will be 140 fellow
ships of $500 each.
All manuscripts should be 
mailed to the National Five Arts 
Award, Inc., 715 Fifth Avenue, 
New York 22, N. Y. by January 
31, 1949.
A fee of two dollars is required 
with the first manuscript and one 
dollar for each subsequent entry.
The director promises profes
sional production or publication of 
the most meritorious and full 
royalties on these for the author.
Tartan Takes 
Classified Ads
Ad-takers Will Be 
In Administration Hall
Classified advertisements will 
be accepted by the Tartan, pro
vided a sufficient response is 
shown, beginning with the issue 
appearing one week from today.
Ads will be taken in the foyer 
of Administration hall tomorrow 
and Friday from 11:15 until 12:45 
and in the Tartan office in the 
Union on Friday evening and 
Sunday afternoon. None will be 
taken by telephone.
Rates will be 25 cents for the 
first ten words and ten cents for 
each additional five words.
Types of ads to be taken will 
be Lost, Personals, Wanted to 
Buy, For Sale, Rides Wanted, 
Riders Wanted, Rooms,for Rent, 
any any other division for which 
a demand develops.
FRAZER PROCESS
SPECIALIZED HAIR REMOVING BY 
LICENSED ELECTROLOGIST
5737 Darlington Road
JAckson 5775
Uinard Studios 
Fine Portraitures
Application prints and 
photostats in a hurry
MUseum 0314
3919 Forbes Street (Corner Atwood) Boom 415
sanctioned the organization for the 
school year.
At the next Council election a 
secretary will be elected by an 
all school vote, according to the 
changes made in the Constitution 
by Council. This was the only 
important change made in the ar
ticles ratified last week.
New Groups Approved 
Budget approvals were given to 
the Varsity C club and the CIT 
Debating society, and two new stu_ 
dent organizations were establish
ed. They were the CIT Rifle and 
Pistol club and Richard Elliotts 
orchestra. Councilman J. K. OHare gave a preliminary report 
to Council on the investigation of 
the key problem.
The question of the usefulness 
of the Womens Guild arose two 
weeks ago when the Womens 
Guild budget was submitted for 
approval. Miss Moore, in defense 
of the organization, told Council 
the purpose of the Guild was to 
coordinate all the other womens 
activiiies and to provide a schol
arship for women. Miss Moores 
statement satisfied council and the 
budget was approved.
All-School Election 
In approving the first three ar
ticles of their own new constitu
tion, Council felt the need of hav
ing a secretary from the secre
tarial department. The only way 
in which this could be achieved 
would be to have a secretary elected by the entire student body with 
the stipulation that only students 
from the secretarial department 
be allowed on the ballot.
The secretary would be elected 
for two semesters. The first sem
ester she would act as assistant 
and then become the regular sec
retary the following semester. She 
would have full voting privileges 
both semesters.
Key Report Soon Due 
OHare, in his report on keys, 
suggested one plan whereby one 
key would be awarded for two 
years service in each of two or
ganizations or for three years 
service in one organization. Coun
cil gave OHare and his committee 
a vote of confidence and the final 
proposals will be presented to 
Council in the near future.
In ratifying the constitution of 
the Rifle and Pistol club, Council 
has established an organization 
that will attempt to coordinate 
the varsity rifle team, the ROTC 
team, and the womens rifle team. 
Richard Elliotts orchestra was es
tablished as a self-supporting ac
tivity and no school funds will be 
needed for its operation.
The editor of the Scottie was 
strongly criticized by the admin
istration because of the last issue 
of that publication, reported Lee 
Wiley, chairman of the publica
tions committee.
FOUR BARBERS TO 
SERVE YOU
Quick Efficient Service at the
TECH BARBER SHOP
Corner of Craig and Forbes
EXPERT REPAIRS
BADIOS, PHONOGRAPHS, APPLIANCES
Sales and Service
LEWIS RADIO 
ELECTRIC CO.
1188 OAKLAND AVE. MA. 11
Bring Your Radio Problems 
To Us
St TEAKS EXPERIENCE
At Your Service

---------------------------------------------------

4_________________________________________________________THE CARNEGIE TARTAN____________________________WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 194]
Plaid Bows To F&M Diplomats, 19-0
'Paul Offermanns'Sportscope
Coaches Receive 
No Cooperation 
From Administration
There is always the perpetual campus erank who is wailing 
for the football coachs hide about this time of year. During 
the past week however, there seems to have been such a general 
dirt throwing clan in opposition to Carnegies football coaching 
staff that we feel this to be an opportune time to come to 
their defense, if need be.
We will grant that we have no Knute Roekne or Jock 
Sutherland directing our football forces on the fieldbut 
then, who does. It also appears that the coaching staff has a 
little better material with which to work this year. Yes, good 
freshmen and sophomore material. Material that should not be 
expected however to stand up against the more experienced 
teams we meet on the gridiron.
But it is not the intention of this column to build up the 
coaching staff. Rather, it is our aim to present a few examples 
of the conditions under which we are now playing intercolle
giate football.
First of all, the administration refuses to authorize any 
absence of football players from classes. When the team travel
ed to St. Louis two weeks ago, they were not excused from 
their Friday and Saturday classes. They were forced to take 
cuts. Are we making an earnest effort to play simon-pure foot
ball or are we turning it into a joke?
The second point we would like to make is also concerned 
with the St. Louis trip. While the Duquesne Dukes fly in pri
vate planes and the Pitt Panthers ride in luxurious pullmans, 
out athletes are forced to carry the symbolic Scotchness of the 
school out to the nth degree by travelling in coachesa 13 
hour ride in coaches! What kind of condition can the most 
optimistic coach hope his players to be in following such a 
trip.
And still another point! After all attempts to schedule foot
ball players last subjects for 3:30 had failed, there was an 
attempt made to add an extra hour to practice. This was re
fused. The reason: Skibo could not stay open any later than 
7:00 p. m. to feed the players. The result: The coaching staff 
now has a full two hours every afternoon to devote to building 
a football team. Our congratulations to Coach Donohoe and his 
associates for succeeding in putting at least a physically fit
[Continued on page 5]
Frostburg 
Downs Soccer 
Team, 2-1
Frostburg State Teachers col
lege took advantage of the fact 
that it had played three previous 
matches in downing Carnegies 
soccer team in the latters open
ing game last Saturday on the 
FPHA field. The score was 2-1.
The Tartans only score came in 
the closing minute of play on a 
penalty shot, a blistering grasscutter which Jenkins fired past 
the goalie. Frostburg scored in the 
third quarter when they were giv
en the ball after a foul was called 
on the Plaid for kicking before 
the whistle blew. Their other 
score came a few minutes later 
on a head-in shot.
Burry, Skibo left fullback, was 
outstanding on defense. The Tartons, however, have yet to develop 
a co-ordinated offense.
Kershner, Frostburg right half
back, fell on his shoulder and had 
to be taken to the Presbyterian 
hospital. The extent of his in
juries was not immediately de
termined.
Tartans Fumble Away 
Lone Scoring Chance
Line Plays Opponents To Standstill;
Poor Punts Set Up F&M Scores
By Bill Dorn
Franklin and Marshalls powerful football machines rolled to a 
19-0 conquest over the victory starved Carnegie Tech gridders at 
Forbes field last Saturday to provide the only blemish in an other
wise perfect Homecoming Festival.
The contest, however, was much closer than the score indicates, 
Two of the Diplomats scores were set up by poor arnegie punts, 
while the Plaid fumbled away their biggest scoring opportunity 
on the enemy two-yard line. Both<^ 
teams registered 9 first downs alCarnegie
Clinton ..
LINE-UP: 
............ Goal ..Frostburg
. Rt. FB ...
... Lf FB .......... SonnenbergDeros. . Rt HB . . .Hart ........... Cen HB . .............. Lf HB .Knepper .......... In Rt .... In Rt. Cen Frwd .Jenkins .............. In Lf ............... KroU----- Out Lf ..
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil 
Because He Flunked The Finger Nail Test
the mane? You should have seen the one on this 
lion before he switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil. It was 
positively beastly 1 So may we paws to make a suggestion: try 
a little Wildroot Cream-Oil hair tonic on your own hair. Youll 
roar with approval when you see bow it grooms your hair 
neatly and naturally without that greasy, plastered down look. 
How it relieves dryness, removes loose dandruff and helps you 
the Fingernail Test! Wildroot Cream-Oil is non-alcoholic 
contains soothing Lanolin. Ask your barber for a pro" application. And get a bottle or tube for your den 
today. Youll find it at any drug or toilet goods counter. We 
arent lion when we say you'll like it better than any other 
hair tonic. Most of the cats do!
? 9/327 Burroughs Drive, Snyder, N. Y.
Wildroot Company, Inc, Buffalo 11, N. Y.
Case Game 
Information
OpponentCase Institute of 
Technology 
DateOctober 23, 1948 
Time2:30 P. M., E. S. T.
PlaceForbes Field 
BroadcastWPIT 
Facts on Case:
Nickname  Rough riders (also 
Engineers and Scientists) 
ColorBrown and White 
ConferenceOhio 
CoachRay A. Ride, W & J 27 
Past Rivalry History between 
Carnegie and Case:
Won by Carnegie 5 
Won by Case7
SLEPT 20 YEARS
R. V. Winkle, Tarrytown, N.Y., care
fully, avoided NoDoz Awakeners and 
slept 20 years., You can do the same. 
Only 25c at your druggists and: 
harmless as coffee, but who cares 
about that? -*~
though F&M outgained the Tar
tans by 51 yards.
Coach Bill Donohoe surprised 
the football gentry by pulling the 
wraps off a little 150 pound scatback, Eddie Minnich, who flashed 
a running form that bore a strik
ing resemblance to that of the 
late Joe Pash. The diminutive 
freshman gave the Tartan fans 
more than enough to cheer about 
with a brand of blocking and run
ning which marked him as a sea
soned performer. In
negie may have the breakaway 
runner that will give them the 
scoring punch they have lacked 
thus far.
In another surprise move, Don
ohoe threw two tailbacks, Nick 
Simcic and Don Armour, into the 
game at the same time with very 
pleasing results. The switch step, 
ped up the Skibo offense by pro
viding it with two hard-running 
backs both of whom possess dan
gerous passings arms.
The Carnegie blocking, howa weak point
Wes Kenney cuts upfield against Franklin and Marshall after 
Eddie Minnich (on ground) throws key block.
Let's go to
ISALY'S
Milk Shakes 
Big Ice Cream Cones 
Klondikes 
Tasty Lunches
Three Stores In the Collefe District
5808 Forbos Street, Squirrel Hill
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland 
Main Plant!
3380 Boulevard of the Allies
Harriers Lose*To Geneva
Alberts And Cockrell 
Place Third9 Fourth
Coach Guy Halferty took his 
cross country squad to Beaver 
Falls lat Friday to open the 
harriers season against Geneva. 
The Covies edged the Tartans in 
a very close meet, 27-28.
Carnegie arrived on the Geneva 
campus expecting to run the 3% 
mile course. A last minute switch 
on the part of the host team ex
tended the distance to five miles. 
The course itself was run on a 
rocky road.
Steel and Caskey took the first 
two places for Geneva with John
ny Alberts and Captain Gene 
Cockrell placing third and fourth 
for the Plaid. Steels winning time 
was 27:20, fourteen seconds bet
ter than Alberts.
Carnegie sorely missed the serv
ices of Ivor Davies, one of the 
Tartans best runners, who was 
unable to finish because of illness.
In addition to Alberts and Cock
rell ,the Skibos also placed Coop
er, McElhaney and Higgins in the 
first ten men.
* * *as the Plaid passers were obvi
ously rushed to get away their 
tosses and the ball carriers were 
running into the waiting arms of 
the opposition all to frequently. 
Offsetting the general appearance, 
though, was big Jack Magnifico, 
sophomore quarterback, who 
proved himself a topnotch block
ing back as well as a strong de
liContinued on page 5]
Fred Wilson does a toe-dance in 
hauling in a Tartan aerial against 
F&M.
We Cater To PartiesBETSY ROSS TEA ROOM
Music by Muiak 
3716 FORBES STREET SCh.nley 94*1

---------------------------------------------------

intra-club matches with the ROTC 
team, the Frosh team, and the 
Womens team, have been sched
uled beginning next month to help 
the team sharpen its aim.
Master Sergeant Reed is back 
this year in charge of the Rifle 
Range. He extends an invitation 
to all non-ROTC students to 
come to a series of initial classes 
in firing. The time and subject of 
each class are posted on the bul
letin boards.
tion for the rifle squad. Most 
matches played last year were 
postal matches in which the teams 
engaged fired on their home range 
and exchanged results through the 
mail.
These contests will be part of 
the winter sports program, not 
commencing until the end of Jan
uary. The matches here will be 
on the Plaid range, in the subbasement of Margaret Morrison.
Sportscope
[Continued from page 4]
team on the field in the short time available. It is amazing 
that we dont have more cripples on the team.
Our suggestion to the administration: Either drop inter
collegiate football entirely or show a little more interest in it. 
As it is being operated now, the players, the students and even 
the name of the school is being ridiculed by the public. AVe firm
ly believe in the deemphasis from big time ball, but we op
pose allowing it to become a force.
Following the last two pep rallies, there has been consid
erable griping on the part of the members of the pep squad 
that Coach Donohoe has not been cooperating because he re
fuses to allow the players to attend.
Despite what students may think Donohoe is not a pioneer 
in this sort of thing. Any coach who does not follow the pat
tern of segregating his players from the student body before 
a game is sure to find overconfidence among the players from 
their premature celebrating. \
Most colleges send their teams out of the city the day be
fore the game to prevent them from being caught in the flood 
of emotionalism which usually sweeps the campus.
More independent experts smoke Lucky Strike regularly than the next two leading brands combined!
An impartial poll covering all the Southern tobacco markets reveals 
the smoking preference of the men who really know tobaccoauction
eers, buyers and warehousemen. More of these independent 
experts smoke Lucky Strike regularly than the next two 
leading brands combined.
So, for your own real deep-down smoking enjoyment, smoke the smoke tobacco experts smoke!
OTHER STYLES
8.95-10.95
THE ETON
tyle 6559
 RICH CORDO GRAIN LEATHER
 STYLED IN TRIM SLEEK LINES
 DURABLE, TRIPLE SOLE
A perfect threesome assuring you complete comfort 
. . . foot-ease and long wear. See them today!
DOUGLAS f SHOE CO., BROCKTON15,
205 FIFTH AVE.
6223 FRANKSTOWN AVE. (E. LIBERTY) 
1202 MARKET ST., WHEELING
LUCKY STRIKE MEANS FINE TOBACCO
So round, so firm, so fully packed  so free and easy on the draw
[WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1948 THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
Rifle Team Will Participate 
In Intra-City Competition
Carnegie Tech rifle team mem-4-
kers will take part in an intra
city competition with teams from 
Pitt, Duquesne, and W&J this 
year in meets sponsored by the 
National Rifle Association. The 
teams will meet in a series of 
home and home-matches.
This marks a further advance in 
the caliber and type of competiExact dates have not yet been de
cided upon, but will be known 
shortly.
Matches will be shot in each of 
the standard positions: prone, sit
ting, kneeling, and standing.
Men on the team are now prac
ticing each day of the week, Mon
day through Friday. A series of
Tartans Lose
[Continued from page 4] 
fensive player.
A stout Tartan line, which 
matched everything the Dips 
could offer despite the absence of 
the injured Larry Stovicek, kept 
the visitors running attack bot
tled up most of the afternoon. But 
a gentleman named Herb Galebach solved the problem by hit
ting nine receivers and netting 
134 yards with his rifle-like passes.
Midwway in the final period of 
play Carnegie made one last bid
for a scoring break as Armour got 
off a booming 60-yard quick kick 
which drove the opponents back 
to their own 27 yard line. The 
white clad Diplomats drove downfield to the Tartan one yard line 
where Wes Kenney intercepted a 
last minute pass to end the ball 
game.
Game Summary
LINE-UPS Carnegie Tech
EndsWilliamson, Wilson, Donato, Fougere, Dougherty.TacklesKeats, Hoffman, Meyers, Mad
den.
5
GuardsWiseman, Madden, Maxton, Norton.
CentersWindish, Trautman, Kamaras.
BacksMagnifico, Armour, Trabits, Haney, Simcic, Sommers, Oberg, Min- nich, Kenney.
Franklin and Marshall
EndsWhitfield, Wertz, Cannon, Hartman, Meyers.
TacklesGetz, Pietschke, Tackach, Cle
ment, Brooks.
GuardsAiken, Burak, Likens, Riden, Shallcross, Persa.
CentersWolfe, Coffey, Harr.
BacksKing, Lowder, Cordier, McManus, Pfeifer, Bastien, Tullai, Scandiber, Millhouse, Miller, Ebersole, Galebach.
Scoring
F & M 7 0 6 619
TouchdownsMcManus 2, Millhouse.
ConversionsGalebach (placement).

---------------------------------------------------

iJjpt ZBacA (GuaUittiee : !*ake the io dal Camel te,t yourself.& If, at any time during these 30 days,you are not convinced that Camels are the mildest cigarette you have ever smoked, 
return th package with the unused Camels and we will refund your full purchase price, plus postage. This offer is good for 90 days from this date.(Signed) R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Winston-Salem, North Carolina.
RAILWAYSCIT-haa
Carneg
NATION-WIDE RAIL-AIR SERVICE
iTtOFIES:
so MILD
ISAL A
30-Daylesf-r&ealed
HOTHROW
IRRITATION
cfoeiosmohvOmek.
YES, here is a cigarette so mild that, in a total of 2470 exacting throat 
examinations of hundreds of men and women who smoked Camels 
exclusively for 30 consecutive days, throat specialists found not one 
single case of throat irritation due to smoking Camels.
Why are Camels SO mild? Choice tobaccosinfinite care in their 
ageingplus matchless blending to bring you a full, rich flavor and a 
cool mildness that says "Camels, and only Camels! 
But prove it yourself in YOUR T-Zone-T for Taste and T for 
Throat. Make the Camel 30-Day Test with our money-back guarantee!
THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 19481
Printing Department Receives 
New Equipment, Machinery
Printing Industry Furnishes Most Of New
Gear; Remainder Comes From War Surplus
Professor Stanley Hlasta (right) of the printing department ob
serves some of the new equipment recently received by the depart
ment.
 * *  
New printing machinery and equipment to aid it in keep
ing abreast of the best in the printing field has been received
4------------------------------------------------------by the printing department.
United American Metals Com
pany has provided a Big Chief 
gas-fired remelter along with 
m^ny of the needed accessories, 
and the Taylor Machine company 
has furnished a Taylor registerscope. The Challenge Machinery 
company has helped with a K. A. 
Challenge proof press and a Style 
E Challenge paper drilling maohine.
The Davidson Offset Corporation 
with a Davidson offset press, and 
Russell Ernest Baum with a Baum 
seven-fold folder have also been 
of assistance to the department.
A Monotype keyboard and cas
ter have been purchased by the 
school from War Surplus, and 3 
C & P platens have been purchas
ed to replace worn equipment.
Other new equipment includes 
a Miehle verticle press, a Miehle
29, and A.T.F. Little Giant, and 
two Hamilton type cabinets in
cluding racks and cases.
The printing administration 
course at Carnegie Tech, already 
the leading formal course of edu
cation in this field, has received 
another boost with the addition 
of this new equipment.
Some of the new equipment has 
been purchased by the school 
from war surplus, but much of it 
has been secured through the co
operation of the manufacturers. 
The help of various companies in 
furnishing printing equipment has 
been a custom of great help to the 
students of the department.
Included in the equipment re
ceived are two large pieces fur
nished by the Harris-Seybold 
company; a single color Harris off
set press and a Seybold heavy 
duty precision paper cutter.
The
Dorm Council
Dorm council elected Hugh 
Fitzgerald vice-president, William 
Clark recording secretary, and 
Wallace Parr corresponding sec
retary during its first meeting on 
October 11.
These officers, together with 
president Gerald Meyers, budget 
director Paul Hanna, and property 
custodian Charles Grimms, who 
were elected by the outgoing 
council last year, will serve for 
the present fall and spring semes
ters.
Included in the business of the 
meeting were the appointments 
by president Meyers of Frank Lee, 
Hugh Fitzgerald and Joseph Zafuto to the intramural athletic 
committee.
ASCE
Members of the American So
ciety of Civil Engineers will hold 
their first meeting of the year on
Bulletin Board
October 22 at 7:15 p. m. in the 
Carnegie Union. All civil engi
neers, including freshmen, are in
vited to attend and take advan
tage of the social program includ
ing entertainment and refresh
ments.
Purpose of the meeting will be 
to reacquaint old members and 
introduce prospective new mem
bers to the purposes and functions 
of the organization.
SAM
Seminar for all management 
and industrial administration students will be at the usual time'"' 
12:30, Oct. 20, in 218 EH. ThJ 
speaker for this session will w jjj 
Mr. Donald J. Howard, managet 1 
of public relations division, Pitts 
burgh Chamber of Commerce 
His topic will be The Chambei| 
of Commerce and Industry.
Sigma Alpha Iota I
Sigma Alpha Iota, womens mu. j 
sic honorary, will hold its annua 
Sophomore recital on October 2! _ 
at 8:15 p. m. in the Exhibitior 
room of the College of Fine Aits.
Good Meals Anytime
Try Vs Soon 
Morn, Night, or Noon
The Clock
3814 Forbes St.
Laundry worries got you? Then 
start using the direct conven
ient, personalized laundry 
service offered by RAILWAY 
EXPRESS. By personalized serv
ice we mean your laundry will 
be collected by Railway Ex
press pick-up facilities, sent to
your home promptly, and re
turned to your college address.
If your folks insist on paying 
all the bills, you can stretch your 
cash-on-hand by sending laun
dry home "charges collect" and 
having it returned with charges 
prepaid at the other end.
No extra charge for pick-up and delivery in all cities 
and principal towns. Valuation free up to $50.00

---------------------------------------------------

EDNESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1948THE CARNEGIE TARTANhie Carnegie Plaid I NewsEvening Council Plans 
Smoker October 23AndViews
Page edited by Evening School Students 
of the Carnegie Institute of Technology
Editor ............................................................................... Lou Adams
Associate Editors ... Raymond Schwalm, Charlene J. Tohey
Circulation Manager................................................George Dawes
Staff
ReportersBob Ellstrom, George Bogovich, Cecille Zellner, Jim Flaherty.
ColumnistsFrank Mihelich, Chuck Anderson.
You neednt fear for this isnt 
going to be an Ode to October, 
but merely a reminder that this is 
the month in which the leaves will 
turn into all those million and 
one colors. I was just wonder
ing how many of our evening stu
dents will notice them.
Our hurrahs this week go to 
George Dawes, circulation man
ager of the Plaid, for his fine 
work in organizing the efficient 
method of destributing the eve
ning school paper. There shouldnt 
be any reason why evening school 
students should miss an issue of 
the Plaid. George has his circu
lating group place the Plaid at 
every possible entrance. Remem
ber the Plaid is your real contact 
with Carnegie Tech as a whole, so 
make every effort to get your 
weekly issue of the Plaid.
The consolation of writing a 
column such as this, is the fact 
that it is not necessary to solve 
any great world problems, nor to 
make astounding prophecies, but 
merely to keep evening students 
posted on things that happen on 
the Carnegie Tech evening cam
pus. If perchance we stray from 
our objective, dont hesitate to 
remind us.
litorial
The Aisle Sitter
** Tomorrow the Carnegie Tech 
^ama department will open its 
?regular season with the presen^tation of The Linden Tree by 
e. B. Priestly. A modern English 
*ama, it comes to our campus
V *er having been staged in Lonmh* and New York, the latter pro^_lion starring Boris Karloff.
opener promises to be one of 
rl: interest. Directed by Talbot 
cson, widely known for his 
|^fek in strawhat theatrics, 
BHne Linden Tree should be an 
r-xspicious beginning for this 
Jears series. Mr.' Pearson is a 
treat admirer of Priestly, and will 
pimpart to this offering his store 
Df knowledge of the authors meth>ods.
Evening students especially are 
invited to attend this and other 
productions in the drama depart
ments Little Theater. In the two 
seasons which this writer has at
tended the campus theater, there 
have been many fine shows given. 
We urge all the evening students 
to lay their textbooks aside for 
one night a month in order to 
witness the excellent work which 
is being done here. The humanis
tic side of our lives at least this 
much of an outlet.
We also wish to direct the eve
ning students attention to the cur
rent attraction at the Playhouse, 
Joan of Lorraine, which stars 
Sada Thompson, one of our Dramats. Miss Thompson, a Carne
gie senior, gives a magnificent 
portrayal of Joan in this Maxwell 
Anderson hit. She is a tribute to 
the high standards of the school.
Incidently, we might mention 
that part of the curriculum at the 
Playhouse school is the required 
attendance at a performance of 
each months production in the 
Little Theater.
Make "BUD" your ARROW 
Headquarters
236 Diamond St.
Across From Donahoes
ATlantic 2964
TWO SWELL 
COLLEGE BUDDIES
ARROW CANDY STRIPES ARROW SOLID COLORS
WIDESPREAD "SUSSEX" SHORT POINT
COLLAR "KENT" COLLAR
Practical and good looking additions to your wardrobe, these Arrow 
shirts are beautifully tailored in fine broadcloth and come in several 
colors.
Both the soft widespread "Sussex" collar and the non-wilt "Kent" 
short point collar are particular favorites of college men. _
See them soon at your favorite Arrow storelIN THE HAND OF DR. GUILLERMO BELTDr. Belt is
Cuba's Ambassador to the United States and her 
permanent United Nations delegate. Like many other 
representatives, he used a Parker 51 to sign the 
new Inter-American Defense Treaty. By this pact 
the 21 American Republics pledge themselves to 
mutual defense in case of attack.SHIRTS and TIES
UNDERWEAR  HANDKERCHIEFS  SPORTS SHIRTS$23 CASH GIVEN AWAYfor interesting, true stories about the Parker 51 Pen. Base it on your own experienceor relate the experience of some friend. $25.00 for each story used. Just report the facts. Stories are judged on facts alone. All letters become our propertycannot be returned. Address: The Parker Pen Company, Dept. S-47, Janesville ,Wk.
Campus Headquarters for Arrow Products, 
Nationally Known Clothing afid Furnishings
LEONARD'S MENS SHOP
Corner Forbes and Atwood St. Oakland

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
Fraternities 
Add Pledges
The number of pledges to the 
twelve Carnegie Tech fraternities 
went over the 200 mark this week 
as additional freshmen donned 
fraternity pledge pins.
The Phi Kappas continue to 
lead the field with 29 new men. 
Delta Upsilon has added Fred 
Church, Jr., John MacElhenny, 
Keith Bradley, John Alberts, and 
Lawrence Pratt, Jr., to bring their 
total to 25. Beta Theta Pi has 23 
pledges.
Sigma Nu has 21 members in its 
pledge class, adding Dick Senour, 
John Huebel, Frank Brandon, and 
Emmett Jones. Alpha Tau Omega 
has pledged Carmen Bonachi, Bill 
Bulkeley, and Bill Faust, bringing 
their pledge class total to 20.
Theta Xi has 19 pledges, adding
Wayne Bond, Donald Koenig, Fred 
Richard, and Bradley Baumeister 
this past week. Delta Tau Delta 
added George Simons and Al Wil
liams, bringing its total to 19 also.
Beta Sigma Rho has a pledge 
class of 15, having added John 
Ziselman. Thirteen new men are 
pledged to Kappa Sigma. Pi Kappa
Alpha has added Bob Holman and
Ernest Barboets, bringing their 
pledge class total to 12. Sigma 
Alpha Epsilon has 11 pledges, with 
the addition of Sam Toni, Ed 
Minick, and Arnie Oberg. Eight 
men have pledged Tau Delta Phi, 
Jim Endler being added to last 
weeks total.
SUNDAES
SANDWICHES 
MILKSHAKES
... at..
Seem i ller's Forbes and Craig
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 20, IMS *
PAID ADVERTISEMENT
The Young Republicans of Allegheny County 
Invite You To Hear
THE HON. JOSEPH R. McCARTHY
U. S. Senator from Wisconsin
Monday, October 25 at 8:30 p. m. 
In The English Room, Fort Pitt Hotel
Join the Young Republicans Today
Call GR. 0660
PAID ADVERTISEMENT
:QE STUDENTS 
'other Cigarette.
446049F
MfERA RRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRCEEEEEEEEEEEEEERRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
"I smoked CHESTERFIELDS 
between scenes while 
making my new picture, 
JOHNNY BELINDA, 
theyre MILDER...
Its MY cigarette."
STARRING IN
JOHNNY BELINDA
A WARNER BROS. PICTURE
Wrwmmlw !
i
-_____________-
