The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 39 No. 10CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.
Carnegie Tech Grad, 
Phillip Morrison, Tells 
Senate of A. Bomb
Phillip Morrison, the brilliant 
young physicist who electrified the 
country with his testimony before 
the Special Senate Committee on 
Atomac Energy, is no less than a 
graduate of Carnegie Tech. Dr. 
Morrison, who saw the destruction 
wrought by the atomic bomb on 
Nagasaki and Hiroshima, emphasiz
ed the vulnerability of American 
cities to sudden and complete de
struction by the atomic weapons of 
a foreign power. His statement was 
given wide publicity, both in news
papers and on the radio, and elicit
ed wirespread comment.
A graduate of 36, Phil was an out
standing figure on the campus. His 
factor was 3.83, and when he receiv
ed his B. S. in physics, he ranked 
third in his class. Nor did Phil con
fine himself to academic honors. He 
was a key member of that discus
sion group, The Safety Valve, which 
in the words of a faculty member, 
needled conservatives and raised a 
rumpus. He was also a very active 
member of the Amateurs Transmit
ters Club, and in 1936, during the 
St. Patricks Day flood, he worked 
over his radio transmitter night 
and day in order to maintain con
tact with communities which had 
been isolated by the flood. He also 
belonged to Tau Beta Pi fraternity.
His instructors describe him as 
being that rare combination, a topgrade, theoretical, and practical 
man.
After graduating from Tech, Phil
lip Morrison went to the University 
of California at Berkeley and got 
his Ph. D. in physics in 1940. While 
there he published papers, on atomic 
electro-dynamics and is a specialist 
in quantum mechanics and nuclear 
physics. Until the war began, Dr. 
Morrison was a professor at the 
University of Illinois. Since the 
atomic bomb project was under
taken, he has been working with 
Dr. Oppenheimer, who is director of 
the Los Alamos Atomic Research 
Laboratory. During the war he was 
sent to the Mariana Islands to as
semble atomic bombs and he served 
as an observer of the bombings.
Dr. Morrison is married to a Tech 
graduate, Emily Kramer, who ma
jored in journalism and worked on 
Scholastic Magazine. His favorite 
recreations are reading, especially 
scientific matter, good food, and 
good plays. He is very modest of his 
accomplishments, and those who 
know him say he is an all-around 
good fellow.
Notice
A general meeting for all people 
interested in working on the SCOTTIE will be held in the Union, Wed
nesday December 19 at 5:00 P. M. 
We are especially interested in car
toonists, photographers, and people 
for the business staff.
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 18, 1945
Student Councils Sno-Ball 
Attracts Crowds of Techites
The Student Councils Sponsored Sno-Ball in the Schenley Hotel ball
room last Friday night was complete in every detail right down to the 
snow itself which lay five inches deep on all the landscape for miles around.
Bernie Armstrong and company furnished the rhythms, the Victory 
Bond Committee sponsored the entertainment, and the Hunt Room sup
plied adequate seating for those who found the ball-room over-crowded.
The Spotlight fell on Delta Gammas beautiful brunette Shirley 
Swaney, who walked away with the queenly honors in Techs Victory Bond 
Drive. Followed by a court of four, Shirley approached her royal throns
to the strains of a field artillery song
The Queen is crowned
Shirley Swaney, DG, 
Crowned Bond Qneen
Techs seven week long Victory 
Bond Campaign was culminated last 
Friday evening, December 14, by the 
crowning of Shirley Swaney, repre
senting Delta Gamma sorority, as 
Victory Queen at the Sno-ball dance. 
Bill Thunhurst, senior in the drama 
department and a veteran, was ask
ed to perform the ceremany. The 
queens court was made up of the 
four girls having the next largest 
totals of bond sales. They were Lin
da Lee Cowherd, Freshmen; Peggy 
Nelis, Sigma Kappa; Peggy Wentzel, 
Chi Omega; and Carroll Henson, 
Delta Delta Delta. As a reward for 
her hard work and perseverence, the 
queen received a gold bracelet and 
choker, and her attendants each re
ceived a gold bracelet. The grand 
campus total for the campaign was 
$1,452,762.50.
Although the campaign got off 
to a rather slow start, the competi
tion increased so rapidly toward the 
end that the total was pushed far 
beyond anyones expectations.
The individual totals of the queen 
and her court were: Shirley
Swaney, $796,712.50; Linda Lee Cow
herd, $508,593.75; Peggy Wetzel, 
$80,818.75; Peggy Nelis, $26,481.25; 
and Carroll Henson, $20,412.50. The 
other candidates and their totals 
were: Dorothy Feldman, Alpha Ep
silon Phi, $13,725.00; Helen JafTurs, 
Kappa Kappa Gamma, $3,618.75; 
Pat Werner, Kappa Alpha Theta, 
$2,568.75; and Virginia Mulhallon, 
Independent, $131.25.
New Cheers Are Needed, 
Students Help Is Asked
Hey! What this place needs is a 
few new cheers! Anybody got any 
suggestions? Surely all of us have 
a few left-over yells from highschool days we can dig out of the 
moth-balls and use. If you want to 
get Techs rooting section out of its 
slump, just give your suggestion to 
the nearest cheerleader. Any help 
will be publicly acknowledged, and 
we can give our varsities the little 
extra push they need to rack up 
the victories.
Students Sing Carols 
At Christmas Chapel
This Tuesday, December 18, the 
traditional Christmas Chapel Serv
ice was held. The audience sang 
the favorite carols as O Little 
Town of Bethlehem, Joy to the 
World, and Silent Night. Presvcdent Doherty presented the Christmass message. Professor Boettcher 
read the Scripture. In the rush 
of Christmas shopping,' studying, 
and getting ready for the hol
idays, it is important that we pause 
to think of what Christmas means 
and to sing of peace on the earth, 
good-will to men ...
Cy Hungerford, the noted cartoon
ist, drew a capacity crowd in the. 
Little Theatre for the assembly last 
Tuesday. He began his chalk talk an 
How to be a Cartoonist by illus
trating how he himself looked. He 
caricatured Hitler as a goose always 
sticking his neck out and finally be
ing cooked. Mussolini appeared on 
the sheet as a strutting pigeon who 
finally hung by his feet. As he drew, 
Cy Hungerford stated that you did 
not need to know how to draw a 
straight line since a cartoonist uses 
curves; and that a cartoonist de
pends on timely current events and 
needs to discover the outstanding 
features of each individual to be 
caricatured. After the assembly sev
eral individuals were lucky enough 
to grab one of Hungerfords cartoons 
for a souvenir.
Tartan Appoints Cubs 
Under A New Policy
At a meeting of the staff of the 
Carnegie Tartan on Friday, No
vember 30, several students were 
appointed as cub reporters. Selec
tion was made on the basis of time 
spent working in the office, the num
ber of column inches of material 
published, and the quality of the 
work done.
Under a new policy, just adopted 
by the Tartan staff, the time spent 
working and the amount of material 
published for each prospective 
member of the staff is kept. Then at 
mid-semester and again at the end 
of the semester, cub reporters are 
appointed on the basis of this rec
ord. The students so honored at this 
meeting were the first to be appoint
ed under this new system.
Those appointed are Tony Arrott, 
Doris Becker, Joan Braunston ( busi
ness staff), Marie Delli Gatti, John 
Fockler, Viera Kulamer, Lisbeth 
Kephart, Patricia Miller, Sally Rocontinued on page 6
and was crowned Victory Bond 
Queen by Dramat Bill Thunhurst 
while the orchestra played the StarPhotos by Danny Franks
arriving
Spangled Banner and the couples 
stood at attention. The Tri-Delts 
Carroll Henson, Chi Omegas Peggy 
Wentzel, Sigma Kappas Peggy 
Nelis, and Freshman candidate Lin
da Lee Cowherd made up the court.
Bernie Armstrongs orchestra was 
excellent  by far the best offered 
to Techites this year. About the only 
people who did not enjoy dancing 
to the maestros music were those 
couples who. emerged from the Hunt 
Room just long enough to get their 
coats on the way out.
An extra added attraction during 
an intermission were the songs by 
Lieutenant Jack Morris with piano 
accompaniment by Jane Ramsey.
APOs Help Students 
Get Transportation Home
In order that the out-of-town stu
dents may obtain rides home for 
Christmas, the members of APO are 
helping the drivers and the riders 
contact each other in order that 
their transportation problem might 
be eased.
They are doing this by means of 
little cards which are to be put in a 
box near the post office. On these 
cards should be put the where and 
when of the ride and how many 
passengers can be taken.
Mr. Fu, who heads the ride pro
ject, will tabulate on the bulletin 
board the drivers and riders who 
sign up. He will list drivers who 
will take riders and riders who wish 
rides. Anyone who can help the 
cause is asked to please sign up.

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, DECEMBER 18, 1945
CJUtosi'l A>unoluusiCritical Temperature Student Council
No Salaries Now
Last week a plan for providing salaries for top editorial positions on 
Carnegie publications was discussed in this column. At that time it was 
stated that if we are to equal in the future the records of past Tech publi
cations, it is imperative that a salary incentive be offered in addition to 
the other values obtained from working on our newspapers and on our 
magazines. We do not agree with the views set forth in that editorial.
Extra-curricular activities were originally established on the campuses 
of the nation to provide an opportunity for college students to meet and to 
know one another, to discover hobbies which would be of interest to them 
in later life, and to acquire skills which could not be taught in the class
room but which would be of use to them in their chosen professions. We 
feel that these objectives are amply achieved by Carnegies publications. 
On Tartan we collect some of the wackiest people in the school, even a 
few dramats. Theyre really fun to know. The knowledge of the newspaper 
game which we have acquired here will add to our appreciation of news
paper work and of newspaper yarns, for the rest of our lives, and in many 
cases our engineers, Maggie Murphs, and P&Ds can put the technical 
knowledge of newswriting and newspaper makeup which they acquire here 
to work for them after they graduate in jobs on fashion magazines and 
technical publications. The Scottie, Technical and Thistle have every bit as 
much to offer their workers as does the Tartan.
Although we do not believe in salaries in theory we would be willing 
to advocate them if they would actually improve the quality of Carnegies 
Publications. The advocates of the salary plan point to the awards' the 
Tartan received in national contests when salaries were being paid and to 
the slump in the quality of Tech publications as a whole since salaries 
were abolished, as proof that salaries are necessary. In answer to this we 
point out that it so happens that the removal of salaries was practically 
coincident with the Pearl Harbor attack; and that the tribulations of publi
cations since that time can be attributed almost wholly to Techs lack of 
manpower, and also that our pre-war Technical which never had salaries 
was, and still is, one of the best known College Technical Publications in 
the country. It might also be noted that three of Carnegies publications 
managed to keep their heads above water without salaries during the war 
when the publications of many other schools became extinct. The advocates 
of salaries feel that they are needed to compensate for the extra work 
involved in publications endeavors. We feel that there are many students 
who will want to come out for publications even though they entail more 
work than other activities and that people who are not truly interested in 
publications work will not work for three solid years merely to get a 
salary in the fourth. In short we think that the present scholarship plan 
which provides financial aid where it is needed and not where it is not is 
much more practical than the salaryscholarship combination previously 
advocated.
Tartan and Council Slip Up
Council and the Tartan are sharing a purple padded dog-house this 
week. It seems that last Wednesday evening at a Pep Rally, legally titled 
a General assembly, an amendment to the Student Council Constitution 
permitting non-voting members to vote on the absence of voting members 
from their college was proposed and voted upon. No previous publicity 
other than a single mention in Council Minutes had been given the amend
ment either by Council or by this august publication.
According to the present Constitution, the whole procedure was legal 
and above board for it is stated therein that the Constitution may be 
amended by a favorable vote of three-fourths of the voting members of 
the Council, together with a two-thirds vote of all full time students present 
at a general assembly. No requirement that the students on campus must 
be informed concerning the provisions of any such amendment before it 
is voted upon is included.
It so happens that the amendment which was voted upon last Wednes
day will facilitate the operation of Council and will therefore be of benefit 
to the student body, but some future Council might attempt to pass an 
amendment which would not benefit the student body as a whole. If in
formation on such an amendment were as poorly disseminated as was the 
data concerning the amendment which was passed last week, very harmful 
changes might result in Student government which would put unwanted 
restrictions upon the students or would put one campus political group in 
power. We therefore feel that some provision should be incorporated in 
the Student Council Constitution which would require that body to make 
known to the students through all publicity mediums the provisions of any 
available future amendment at least a week before the assembly to vote 
upon it is called.
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the 
staff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not 
to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2600 PHONE SCHENLEY 4557
AC PRESENTED FOR NATIONAL. ADVERTISING BV
National Advertising Service, Inc. After Office Hours Call
College Publishers Representative Editor-in-chief ..........................SC. 6519
420 Madison FORN ART York. n.y. Business Manager...................EM. 9424
Chicago  bostos  Lot akcelxi  Sah Fkamciico 
Entered as second-class matter in the Pittsburgh Post Office under the Act of March 3, 1879. 
Published weekly during school year, except holidays and examination periods. 
Subscription Price $1.10 per year.
Editor ......................................................................................................................... Clara Herron
Business Manager ......................................................................................... Harold Gottesman
There is nothing experimental 
about the Drama Departments pro
duction of The Damask Cheek. It is 
a straight-forward presentation of a 
harmless and amusing comedy of 
manners, which most people will 
probably find very enjoyable. Al
though the play moves somewhat 
slowly, Mr. Talbot Pearsons cast 
plays it for all the laughs they can 
get; and this defect is therefore not 
too noticeable.
In a way, The Damask Cheek is 
reminiscent of The Romantic Young 
Lady, which was presented earlier 
this season; but it is a superior play 
and the acting is generally better. 
The play also centers around a wom
an character, in this case an English 
girl who is visiting her New York 
cousins. Considered by all her rela
tives to be an extremely conserva
tive and respectable young lady, she 
scandalizes everyone by leaving a 
dance to go on a moonlight drive 
around Central Park with a young 
man. How her now-blackened repu
tation turns to an advantage keeps 
the audience interested during the 
rather awkwardly constructed third 
act.
The acting was a little uneven; 
some of the leading players were 
excellent, while others were defi
nitely not up to par. Among the ex
cellent ones, the chief is Ellen 
Hovde. She handled the leading 
role naturally and sincerely, and in 
our opinion this was the best per-* 
formance she has given in a Tech 
play to date. Roger Brann did very 
well in the male lead, although his 
appearance on opening night was 
rather spoiled by an unskilled make
up job. Wilford Thunhurst, whom 
we have not seen before, was quite 
a likeable Don Juan, even though he 
muffed several lines. One of the best 
characterizations in the show was 
Bert Pollocks younger brother. He 
caught the troubled spirit of ado
lescence beautifully. Mary Gibsons 
continued on page 7
At the regular meeting, Decem
ber 7, Student Council decided the 
following:
Social Committee  A man will 
be employed to request that cor
sages be removed at the entrance to 
the Sno-Ball. Petitions for the fol
lowing closed social events were 
passed  Junior Class of Margaret 
Morrison to hold bridge party in 
the Union on Friday, February 1, 
from 8:00 to 12:00. Chi Omega to 
hold dance in Thistle Hall on Feb
ruary 8 from 8:00 to 12:00. Scobell 
Hall to hold a dance in the new Can
teen in the Inn or the Union, on 
January 11 from 8:30 to 12:30. The 
Freshman Class of Margaret Morri
son to hold a Chocolate Hour par
ty on December 18, from 4:15 to 
6:00, subject to the approval of Dean 
Yon.
Revision of Mens Point System 
Minimum number of points reduced 
from 50 to 40. Points for sports are 
to be awarded by the coach, cheer
leaders by head cheerleader, mem
bers of Y-Cabinet by officers, and 
non-voting member of Student 
Council by the President of Student 
Council; members of publications 
are to receive a maximum of 1 point 
for four hours service. Active mem
ber of Theta Tau, Eta Kappa Nu, Pi 
Tau Sigma, and Claymore Clan who 
entered in the fall, active members 
of social fraternities for at least one 
year, and members of Alpha Phi 
Omega shall all receive 5 points. 
After all complaints have been ad
justed, Scimitars and Delta Skulls 
will then award membership.
In the future Student Council 
minutes will not be published in 
the Tartan, but will be condensed 
into a news story by a Tartan mem
ber who is also on Student Council.
WOODLAWN 
PHARMACY
The Campus Drug Store 
HA. 6300 5200 Forbes St.
DRUG
PRODUCTS
SUN
DRUG STORES
Reliable Prescription Service

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, DECEMBER 18, 1945THE CARNEGIE TARTAN5
? ? Who will she be ? ?
C. Norman Dawes. This will give 
the judges an opportunity to rate 
the contestants on appearance, poise, 
and personality. From what we have 
seen of the questions, it should be 
lots of fun for all concerned.
One of the judges will be Mrs. 
Audrey Botkin Stratton, a former 
Tech dramat who is now an assist
ant Fashion co-ordinator at Gimbels Department Store. Another is 
Miss Betty Born, who is one of 
Pittsburghs most photographed 
models. Miss Judy Conoley of Gimbels Photoreflex shop, and repre
sentatives of the Pittsburgh SunTelegraph and the Pittsburgh Press 
will be judges also.
In case you have forgotten, the 
contestants are: Dorothy Federman, 
Martha Wagman  Alpha Epsilon 
Phi; Eleanor Yorke, Jane Engelhardt 
Chi Omega; Carroll Henson, Jane 
HusseyDelta Delta Delta; Frankie 
Creelman, Jean Garland  Delta 
Gamma; Cyrene Hewitt, Pat Wer
ner  Kappa Alpha Theta; Anne 
Sweeney, Scottie AtkinsonKappa 
Kappa Gamma; Julie Randal, Mary 
Lou Lerch  Sigma Kappa; Gerry 
Jedd, Norma Caplain SegalInde
pendent.
Theta Tau Takes Six 
In Its Formal Initiation
Stag Mixer Dance Held 
After Penn State Game
A very successful mixer dance 
was held in Thistle Hall last Friday 
evening after the Penn State game. 
The large turn-out proved that the 
student body is again giving full 
support to all-school activities. Ev
erybody, including both ' teams, 
seemed to have a marvelous time 
dancing to the tunes of the excep
tionally good records. Gliding un
der the lights, (which nobody both
ered to turn on) were couples look
ing like they couldnt have been 
happier if we had won the game.
We expect to have a number of 
these dances in the near future so 
come out and join in the fun.
Omicron Delta Kappa, Senior Honorary 
Holds Initiation Banquet, Elects Officers
C. S. EDMAN
Printer
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0183
The Founders Day Banquet of 
Omicron Delta Kappa was held at 
the University Club on Monday De
cember 10, 1945. Previous to the ban
quet an initiation ceremony for the 
combined chapters of Pitt and Tech 
was held. The Pitt chapter acted 
as host for the Tech chapter which 
had been inactive during the war.
Those faculty members of the 
Tech Chapter of Omicron Delta 
Kappa who reactivated the chapter 
are continuing in their present of
fices. The officers of the Beta Delta 
Circle are Dr. Beryl Warden, Fac
ulty Advisor, and Rollin V. Davis, 
Secretary.
The initiates were divided into 
two groups: the associates and the 
actives. Faculty members, or asso
ciate initiates, were Dr. Webster 
Jones, Dr. Robert Gregg, and Prof. 
John Daniels. The active initiates in
cluded Merle Wolff, Robert Noyes,
Augie Binder, Bob Straka, Harold 
Gottesman, Louis Umbach, Andrew 
Pepper, Irwin Aisenberg, John Seipel, and Andrew Nutter.
After the initiation, a banquet was 
held for the new members. The pre
siding chairman was Robert Dixon 
and the toast master was Robert 
Graham.
The Beta Delta Initiates were in
troduced by Rollin Davis. Each ini
tiate gave an impromptu speech of 
thanks to the members. The ban
quet was then ended when Rever
end Dr. Hugh Kerr gave the bene
diction.
The first meeting of the Omicron 
Delta Kappa was held Saturday. 
The purpose of the meeting was to 
elect officers and to work out plans 
for the coming Spring Carnival. 
Officers elected were Bob Noyes, 
president and Andy Pepper, vicepresident.
WAREHOUSE STEEL PRODUCTS
Hot Rolled Sheets, Strips, Flats, Bands, 
Rounds, Squares, Hexagons, BarSized, Angles, Channels, Zees, Tees, 
Beams, Plate and Checker Plates, Re
inforcing Bars, High Speed Tool Bit, 
and Drill Rod.
ODK Initiates
Last Sunday, December 16, Theta 
Tau, national professional engineer
ing fraternity, held formal initia
tion at Carnegie Union for the six 
men elected to the organization this 
semester. Those initiated were Rob
ert Sharbaugh, William Perry, Alex 
Sherman, Burton Quint, Samuel 
Collier, and Robert Kerr, the latter 
having been omitted from last 
weeks story due to an oversight.
These men qualified for member
ship in Theta Tau because of their 
outstanding records in scholarship 
and activities. Their initiation swells 
the membership of this group almost 
to the pre-war level, for there are 
now nineteen active members on 
campus in addition to several fac
ulty members.
Pgli Fashion Experts
Asked to Help Choose 
Six Thistle Queens
What kind of face and personality 
will it take to please the judges in 
the Thistle queen contest? Come to 
the Little Theater, Thursday after
noon at 4:15, and youll find out.
At that time each girl will be ask
ed a few simple questions by M.
First Pep Rally And
Record Dance Held
The first pep rally of the year, 
held last Tuesday evening in Thistle 
Hall, drew a large crowd of loyal 
Technites. The crowd warmed to 
good cheering form under the ex
hortations of cheerleaders Aug e 
Binder, Scottie Yurchison, and Doug 
Wilde. The band, the nucleus for 
next years Kiltie Band, was sur
prising] y good.
Tiie rally was followed by a juke 
tox dance, the first of a series of 
record dances to accompany the 
basketball games.
At the rally a ballot was passed on 
Student Council Constitutional 
amendment to the effect that non
voting members may vote in the 
absence of a voting member.
GRant 3421
Levinson Steel Sales Co.
1 33 PRIDE STREET
Distributors of APS - Roofing  Siding * Flashing

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTAKTUESDAY, DECEMBER 18, 1P45
Music + dancers + formais
Photo by Danny Franks
Sitting One Out
Skibo Scraps
The last week proved quite event
ful. . . . what with the Sno Ball et 
al. Everyone now has the editorial 
blessing as we collectively try to 
last out the final week.
Dimpledneez is offering a sub
stantial award for information lead
ing to the whereabouts of frat pin 
formerly belonging to Bob Noyes 
. . . Was that an engagement ring 
noticed on Inky Freedmans finger 
Friday night . . . Whodunit No. 
362; we hear that Scotland Yard is 
being contacted about the corpse 
found in the Junior painting room in 
the P&D Department Friday night 
. . . the girls are finally getting 
around to the French students; does 
this come under the heading of Ad
vanced Mathematics or the Good 
Neighbor Policy?
It seems that Joan Braunston, 
Danny Franks, and Joel Bigelman 
attended the dance together at dif
ferent timessort of a lend-lease 
arrangement. . . . What article of 
clothing was recently removed from 
Ruth Pivorottos dressing room? 
. . . Ralph Kindblom pinned Elaine 
Mayberry several weeks ago . . . 
Burt Quint with Linda Leigh Cow
herd Friday night.
Big bang of the week: watching 
Clara Herron being initiated into 
the Hubba, Hubba Club . . . The 
PiKAs seem to have taken a sudden 
interest in Linden Hall lately. Wit
ness the party last Saturday night 
. . . Ever since the formal, Jean 
Boltey has shown a decided liking
for hot tea . . . Gerry Sunseri hav
ing cut in trouble.
We seriously doubt the latest 
story which has Pierre LaGrand 
chewing corners off glass ash trays. 
If true, Student Council will have to 
pass a few more new laws . . . 
Jean Knee (with the light brown 
hair?) wearing Norm Zuerners Delt 
pin . . . Shirly SwaneyLong
Live the queen. The king: Dick 
Kennedy . . . Les Engles with Pat 
Jones . . . Sympathy to Warren 
Dickson who was feeling mighty 
sad cause the demon flu prevented
Deux a la balle
his having a big time date with 
Betty Ann Bock . . .
Add to foolish situations about 
which Tech should do something: 
separate groups of fellows and girls 
gazing sheepishly at each other at 
Saturday nights stag dance. Why 
dont they dance??? . . . Marty 
Colnes with a really sharp date Sat
urday night . . . Gloria Bergman 
having a fine time with Jack 
Schrenker (Nancys brother) at the 
Sno-Ball . . . The TXs right proud 
of Ted Caridis, new head of Interfrat ... Ed Clark with Mary Ann
Swing ana Sway
Schue . . . Delt, Dick Huntoon seen 
everywhere with Jean Witherow 
last weekend . . . Tami Morinello 
leaving for overseas duty.
Bill Hagmier and Betty Koester 
passing for 21 at Bill Greens!  Ah 
yes, Tech ages one. . . . Helen Kapitan seen at the Sno Ball with Joe 
Lowinger, former Tech student who 
plans to return in February . . . 
Goobie on her knees proposing to 
Sid Berkowitz in Skibo. Guess you 
never know what to expect with a 
meal over there nowadays . . .
continued on page 7
VALLEY DAIRY CO
BRandywine 2150
QUALITY MILK 
CREAM 
DAIRY PRODUCTS
Homogenized Milk - Ice Cream
CPHealth Is Your Greatest Asset
. . . At the Sno-ball

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, DECEMBER 18, 1945THE CARNEGIE TARTAN6TECH SPORTS
Tech Drops Tough ContestsIntramural
Wednesdays basketball game and 
the pep-rally the night before cut 
down considerably the material to 
be rounded-up in this weeks Intra
mural rodeo. However, the Board 
did adopt a new Intramural Consti
tution which is to go into effect on 
the first of February.
The Delts and the Betas have 
continued to set the pace in the 
volley ball competition, and the 
PiKAs and the Beta Sigs have 
clinched top honors in the table 
tennis leagues.
Delts and Betas Tied for Lead
The Delts, unchecked since losing 
their initial encounter three weeks 
ago, made it four straight by drop
ping the SAEs with a decisive 21-5,
21-16 count. The Betas meanwhile 
cut the competition for first place 
from three to two by squelching 
Scwelch 21-19, 21-14.
The old cellar is getting bigger 
everyday. The Beta Sigs seem to 
have a priority at the moment, but 
the Tau Delts, DUs, and TXs are 
giving them something to worry 
about. The TXs took the number of 
the DUs in a tight contest 21-17,
22-20.
Changes in Schedule
The games originally scheduled 
for last Tuesday will be played Jan
uary 15. A further change involves 
those scheduled for January 8. The 
Delts, DUs, PiKAs, and SAEs will 
play their games at eight instead of 
seven, and the TX-Beta Sig contest 
set for eight that same night has 
been moved ahead to the tenth, but 
will be played at the same hour. 
Beta Sigs Top National League
Irv Aisenberg, Bernard Perlman, 
and Stan Kohn battled their way in
to the National league championship 
by taking three singles matches 
from the DUs who had to be con
tent with a lone victory by Bob 
Secrist. But the undefeated DU 
doubles team did not get a chance 
to go into action for the Beta Sigs 
had the match clinched 3-1 as soon 
as the individual battles were. over.
The TXs came back from last 
weeks upset at the hands of the 
PiKAs to trounce the Betas 3-0. 
Ted Caridis, Walt Blissel, and Lou 
Umbach did the honors for the TXs 
with Lou coming through with the 
first shut-out of the season 11-0, 
21-6. The PiKAs made short work 
of the Phi Kaps as Dick DiPrima, 
Bob Herbert, Andy Sterrett, and 
Ned Foster swept the singles. 
Tournaments Reaching Final Stages
The tournaments reached the 
quarter final stage with the feature 
in singles being Lou Umbachs 19-21, 
21-12, 21-19 victory over Rick Sax
ton. The doubles showed Haberstroh and Dickerson, and Horelich 
and Umbach reaching the semi-fin
als by means of a pair of defaults. 
Bill Mast and Vic Wales made it the 
hard way as they took DiPrima and 
Sherwood 21-12, 18-21, 23-21. Saxton 
and Frank, however, were no match 
for Tom Barnhart and Ted Caradis 
who won 21-10, 21-14.
The Horelick-Umbach combina
tion will take on Mast and Wales 
this week, while Barnhart and Car
idis face Haberstroh and Dickerson 
in what may turn out to be sharp 
contests.
Skibos Hit Jinx As 
Westminster Wins
For three and a half quarters, one 
of the larger upsets of the season 
was in progress last Wednesday 
night when Tech tackled Westmin
ster. The final score of 53-43 doesnt 
tell the whole story, in fact, I dont 
think anybody can tell the whole 
stcry. The game was a weird one all 
the way around, as Tech missed 14 
of 22 foul shots and threw away 
many chances for a score on bad 
passes. Westminster came up with 
a man-to-man defense over the full 
length of the court, and it had Tech 
baffled for a while. This Westmin
ster strategy produced a 15-10 lead 
for the visitors at the quarter. Then 
the Tartans began to solve the prob
lem at the outset of the second peri
od and broke in fast for lay-ups time 
and again. Joe Harmuth was the 
first Techite to get the hang of 
things and the Machine-Gun Kid 
(O.K., Joe?) got loose three times 
to score and bring Carnegie back 
into the ball game. Paul Kuzma 
batted in a rebound to knot the 
count at 19-all, when the visitors 
took things into their own hands 
and popped through five points in a 
row. Tech wasnt to be outdone, 
though, and Kuzma, Heiles and But
ler put together two lay-ups and a 
free toss to square matters at 24-24 
at half-time.
Tech started out on the right foot 
at the outset of the second half as 
C.T. (Kentucky is still the best state 
in the Confederate Union) Butler 
took the tip-off and dribbled in for 
a score. Westminster took advantage 
of numerous free throws to tie the 
score at 30-a piece, when Jittery Joe 
Harmuth again got loose and took 
two beautiful passes from Stan 
to give Tech a 4-point lead. West
minster whittled it down to 36-33- 
Tech as the fourth quarter began.
With the count tied at 37-37, the 
lack of Tech reserves began making 
itself evident. The boys just didnt 
have the stuff left in them to cope 
with Westminsters momentumgaining attack. Also the visitors 
rangy center started making himself 
evident in a way that would break 
anybodys heart. Dembinski time 
and again tapped and tapped at re
bounds until they went in. He also 
used his height to block several 
shots made by the wee Tartans. All 
in all, the big guy ran wild and 
racked up 14 points all by his lone
some in the final stanza and there 
was the ball game.
Sidelights on the Games There 
were two big ifs affecting the fin
al outcome. If Tech could have made 
more of its foul shots early in the 
game, so they would have had a 
bigger lead and the psychological 
advantage as things got hotter, and 
if Kohn, Jewell, and Sherb had been 
at their peak, Westminster might 
have been dumped on the collective 
noses.
Lineup:
CarnegieGFTWestminsterGFT
Harmuth, f.. 7014Wagner, f .... 5010
Hannum,  .,.. 340Middleston,f. 328
Kuzma, c .... 5313Dembinski,C. 8824
Butler, g . . .06Cochran, g .... 3410
Heiles, g . ..102Harpold, g.. 000
Cheltin, g .... 011Paine, c113
Sherb, g .... 000Nelson, g ..... 011
Kohn, g000
19846201656
Penn State Height 
Defeats Tech 34-27
Penn State came, Penn State saw, 
Penn State conquered,but they 
had one helluva time doing it! The 
Tartan quintet put up one of the 
best scraps of the year last Satur
day night, but the Lions had too 
much height for the hometown 
dwarfs, and the final result showed 
State 34, Tech 27. For three quarters 
the Skibos caused no end of worry 
to the Long Drinks from State 
College and pulled the visitors mar
gin down to four points in the final 
stanza, but then Gene Hannum took 
a hard right to the head and went 
down for the count, and Techs scor
ing punch was hampered no end. 
Snappy Passes!
The fans had hardly taken their 
seats when Tech gave evidence that 
it was not going to be massacred 
as most had predicted. Big Paul 
(backwards it spells Amzuk) Kuz
ma took passes from Heiles and 
Butler to rack up a twin counter. 
After Heiles had dropped a foul 
shot, the thing which was to sink 
Tech made itself evident in the per
son of States Simon. While the Tar
tans were concentrating on the big 
boys, the wee forward slid off to the 
outside and started popping them 
through with amazing regularity. 
Kuzma got loose again, then tapped 
in a rebound to give Tech an 8-7 
edge at the quarter.
Tartans Held to Foul Shots
In the second period Simon drop
ped two more set shots and a foul to 
send the Lions out in front 12-8. 
Hatkevitch then registered a goal 
and a foul while Bill Nugent was 
chalking up another free throw. The 
Tartans did not register a single 
field goal in this period, being held 
to three fouls. The State sliding zone 
finally solved the problem of the 
rampaging Kuzma and enjoyed a 
16-11 margin at half time.
Hannum Finds Range
Gene Hannum, who had been out 
most of the time up to now because 
of a gash under his eye, found the 
range in the third period and kept 
the Tartans in the ball game as 
Currie (all 68 of him) kept knock
ing down all of the shots from the 
smaller members of Max Hannums 
aggregation. Heiles sank a hot one 
to match Simons set shot and the 
period ended with the Skibos trail
ing 25-21.
Hannum Injured
Hannum proceeded to swish three 
more through the hoop to keep pace 
with the visitors until he got hit. 
But then Nugent and Simon ad
ministered the final blow which 
proved fatal to the Tech cause. 
Heiles-Kuzma Shine
Too much cant be said for Heiles 
and Kuzma. The New Kensington 
Flash was the steadying influence of 
Techs offense and time and again 
made sensational catches of stray 
passes from his teammates. Kuzma 
did an amazing job off the back
board, and at times made the three 
tall members of States team look 
sick
All things considered, Tech did a 
remarkable job with one days pracTech Sporting Scene
Dick Heckman
Question-of-the-Week  Why did 
the D.U.s at the Westminster bas
ketball game last Wednesday all go 
into a huddle after each Westmin
ster cheer? Its a cinch they werent 
discussing politics. The boys claim 
they liked the color of the cheer
leaders skirts. (Oh, yeah)
Stan Kohn is still surprised at the 
amazing exhibition of dribbling he 
put on. The Soc. Rel. Kid slipped 
and fell on his back and still kept 
the ball bouncing. Maybe it was the 
Flu.
Harmuth and Phil Baker
Imagine the Allegheny players 
surprise, when Joe Harmuth ambles 
up to him during a tense moment of 
the Tartan-Gator game and pops the 
$64 question, You now have 32 
teeth. Would you like to try for 
none?? All of which proves again 
that you dont have to know any
thing about basketball to enjoy 
yourself when the Fearless Five 
takes the floor.
D jawanttocatchafew
To those Sideline Strategists who 
are forever griping about Paul Kuz
mas dropping some passes under 
the bucket: When Lew Heiles
heaves that ball in there, it comes 
like a rocket. Sure, the passes have 
to be fast, but you cant blame a guy 
for letting one go through once in 
a while, especially when he has to 
concentrate on getting it up to the 
hoop in the same motion. If youll 
look at the records, youll find that 
the big guy has converted those 
sharp passes into 14 points in the 
past two games. How many have 
opposing centers done the same 
way? Exactly 2. Techs system uses 
that hard one more than most col
leges, and it puts the pressure on 
Kuzma more than most centers. 
How about giving the guy a break? 
Hes doing the best he lmows how 
(and for my money, hes doing a 
wee bit of all reet). If youve got 
nothing to do but gripe, get out 
there and try it yourself! If you can 
do it, all well and good, but until 
then, for heavens sake, shut up! 
What this country needs is a few 
less people telling us what this coun
try needs.
Dont Ask Why, Girls
The swimming team is rapidly be
coming Techs Lost Battalion. While 
everybody is upstairs watching the 
cagers, Techs Alan Fords are down
stairs wearing themselves out, un
observed. Heres a cheer for our un
sung heroes and a suggestion that 
if you want to see some action, get 
yourself down there some afternoon 
(This activity suggested for men 
only.)
tice on an offense geared to stop 
States sliding zone. The Hannumites had the visitors really worried 
with their exhibition of sharp pass
ing during the entire first half. 
The Heiles-Butler-Kuzma-Hannum 
swish combination came through 
time and again.
Lineups:
Carnegie G F T Penn State OFT
Harmuth. f .. 0 O 0 Light, f ............... 1 0 2
Hannum, f ... 5 2 12 Simon, i .............5 2 12
Kuzma, g .... 4 2 10 Currie, c .............3 1 7
Heiles, g.........1 1 3 Nugent, g ...........1 2 4
Butler, g.........0 1 1 Hatkevich, g ... 4 1 9
Kohn, g .........0 1 1 Batnick, g ...........0 0 0
Chetlin, g____ 0 0 0 Funk, g ...............0 O 0
10 7 27 14 8 34

---------------------------------------------------

6THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, DECEMBER 18, 1945
(In which the End Man gets car
ried away by the spirit of the Yule 
and sings the third chorus of Hark 
The Herald Angels Sing three hun
dred and forty-five times.)
Pittsburgh Round-Up: At the
Nixon this week, The Merry 
Widow (Monday and Tuesday), 
Countess Maritza (Thursday and 
Friday), and Rose Marie (Satur
day matinee and evening.) Rebec
ca will be at the Nixon Christmas 
week, and Dark of the Moon will 
begin New Years Eve.
Four Burps to the Breeze De
partment: Burp One is for the Tar
tan for defending the exorbitant 
prices in thes Beanery and Skibo 
(Fifteen cents for a dish of pears! 
Reeeeeallllly!) Burp Two is for 
The Passing Show at the Nixon 
last week and for that moooom pic
ture called And Then There Were 
None. Burp Three is directed to
wards the very obvious fact that 
Christmas is becoming more and 
more commercialized, and even if 
you can pay the prices, you cant 
find what you want. Burp Four is 
for one of the librarians, here at 
school, with the Blue Bird com
plex.
Four Shouts to the Wind Depart
ment: Shout One is for the win
dow displays at Gimbels and Kaufmanns which absolutely reeks of the 
Yuletide, in comparison with the 
display at Frank and Seders which 
absolutely reeks. Shout Two is for 
the Waitresses in Skibo and The 
Beanery. Shout Three is for Witold 
Malcuznyski (with a name like that, 
hed have to be good!) who played 
at the Mosque last week. Shout Four 
is for the Scottie which comes out 
this week.
We Dont Think Mr. Richard 
Heckman Likes Us Very Much De
partment: The End Man doesnt 
have any idea as to the number of 
people who read Tech Sporting 
Scene in the sport section of the 
Tartan; and for those people, he will 
try and give the gist of what Mr. 
Heckman (who writes it) said about 
that character, the End Man and 
one Miss Guberman. He evidently 
doesnt like us. And we would both 
like to take this opportunity to hum
bly apologize to him. If we have 
ever done anything, in the past, to 
annoy him or keep him from eat
ing (in Skibo), we are intensely 
sorry. Both Miss Guberman and the 
End Man shall honestly endeavor 
to act our ages (as Mr. Heckman 
so aptly put it) and refrain from
MANAGEMENT of ones per
sonal finances sometimes calls 
for judicious borrowing of funds. 
Loans on collateral security may 
be arranged in consul tation with 
one of the Bank's officers.
MELLON 
NATIONAL BANK
disrupting the tranquility of said 
Beanery and Skibo everytime we 
put foot therein. Mr. Heckman also 
didnt like that burp in this column 
the other week about Intellectual 
Tools and the End Man is most 
sorry and most apologetic about 
that. However, we feel that Mr. 
Heckman was generalized when he 
inferred that all engineers were not 
pleased over the End Mans com
ment. We know several that thought 
it was funny! Anyone who has been 
at Tech for more than two weeks 
knows that the Art School, in gen
eral, and the Dramats, in particular, 
are on the receiving end of most of 
the campus jokes, and you dont hear 
us fussing about that. But that is 
neither here nor there; the point of 
this column is to apologize to Mr. 
Heckman and that is what were do
ing right now. Beleieve us, Mr. 
Heckman, were terrible sorry! And 
itwonthappenagainClosing Up Shop Department: 
Weve been trying to type this col
umn while writing it. That is an im
possibility. Weve succeeded in past
ing a huge silver star on the carriage 
of our Corona and entwining red 
ribbon among the keys. Pieces of 
pine pop up everytime we push the 
shift key and our hands are so 
mucilage-ish that we draw the type
writer three feet off the ground 
everytime we stand up. Were in a 
mess, and this is the perfect time to
Tartan Cubs
continued from page 1 
senberg (business staff), and Shir
ley Seiner.
At the following meeting, changes 
and additions were made to the edi
torial staff. Ben Schwartz has been 
appointed assistant news editor; Boo 
Girts now holds the position of as
sistant managing editor; Bob Teasdale is copy editor; headline editor 
is Audrey Wilkens; and Jean Boltey 
is assistant copy editor.
Lu Emmel, B. J. Kreimer, Camilla 
McCullough, Rosemary Lang, Helen 
Miller, and Georgette Paljug are on 
the regular reporting staff.
end this (you-could-call-it-a) col
umn. Merry , Merry Christmas 
everybody and have fun over the 
Holidaze!
ARMOUR & COMPANY
Makers of the 
Famous
IRISH HAMS
and
IRISH BACONS
PITTSBURGH
PROVISION & PACKING CO. 
GRant 2460
Plant and General Offices: 
Union Stock Yards
HERR'S ISLAND
MEMI FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, DECEMBER 18, 1945THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
tf-tuU fylnih&l
Christmas is in the air  mistle
toe, candle light, and pine, with the 
accent on the mistletoe and the 
Delts Tea Dance for the Thetas 
Wednesday, December 12. Merle 
Wolff took it upon himself to see 
that everyone had fun. The Thetas 
claim that Merle Wolff is a terrific 
boy scout  he cant even build a 
fire with matches. The fire when 
built was used for toasting weiners 
and marshmallows to go with cocoa 
and tea. (Yes, some remarkable Delt 
talented in woodcraft came to the 
rescue and finally built the fire by 
breathing fire). The Delts have a 
beautiful Christmas tree in their liv
ing room complete with a real Li
onel electric train racing around the 
base of the tree.
This past week end has really 
been a busy busy one for the 
AEPhis. Friday night they attended 
a pajama party at Anita Stewarts. 
It was an honest to goodness all 
night affair (and what pajama par
ty isnt?). On the more serious side 
the AEPhis held their Installation 
Dinner at the William Penn Hotel.
The Tri Delts have planned a re
ception for their parents at the 
Union December 19 from 8 to 10. 
The decorations will be based on a 
Christmas theme. A group of Tri 
Delts are having a small gathering 
at the Vogue Terrace on December 
20. Everyone seems to be getting 
into the swing of Christmas.
Saturday, December 15, the Kap
pas held theirformal initiation at 
the University Club. Following the 
initiation cereony, the Kappas had 
a banquet and dance. Flickering 
candle light and pine scent gave the 
dance a yuletide air. There were 
over sixty couples in attendance.
The Delta Gammas held their ini
tiation on December 8 at the CIT 
Womens Club. Ten girls became 
actives after the initiation was over. 
The Delta Gammas held a banquet 
at the Ruskin Wednesday, Decem
ber 12. The Delta Gamma Alumni 
gave a Christmas party for the unCritical Temperature
continued from page 2 
interpretation of the little sister was 
also very good, but it seemed to us 
that the part was not really written 
as an eighteen-year old, not even in 
1909. This of course is not the fault 
of the actress but of the author. 
Helen Goodmans portrayal of the 
broadly Irish servant was compe
tent, if not exceptional.
Among the less successful char
acterizations we would place Patsy 
Falkenhains Mrs. Randall. This part 
offers a good many opportunities, 
and we felt that she did not take 
full advantage of them. Miss Pinner, 
as played by Caroline Cook, was a 
routine old maid, quite uninterest
ing. June Shannon, as the slightly 
shocking actress to whom Jimmy is 
engaged, did not play with nearly 
as much sureness and finish as most 
of the other actors.
On the whole, however, the show 
is well done, and we are sure that 
all the audiences enjoyed them
selves thoroughly. There is a great 
deal of pantomine, which was all 
executed very effectively and added 
a lot to the humor of the play. The 
costumes were lovely, and the set
ting, designed by Milton Howarth, 
was quite appropriate for New York 
in 1909,
Skibo Scraps
continued from page 4
Margy Dykes Harry is home . . . 
Diners at the Skibo last Friday eve
ning had free music .with their 
meals, whether they really wanted 
it or not; the reporteire included 
everything from Tech Alma Mater 
to Christmas Carols. Some of the 
songs were almost recognizable . . . 
Pledge brothers Bob Ripple and 
Tony Arrott made Fridays dance a 
family affair as they escorted Mt. 
Lebanon sisters Doris and Grace 
Becker . . . Theres husbandry in 
Thistle Hall. Ask anyone who at
tended last Sat. stag dance . . . Old 
timer Tom Bokman with Pat Wer
ner . . . Lou Emmel with Bob Kerr 
... We still wonder if the fellows 
who were hunting for Betty Hag
gerty and Audrey Morrison ever 
found them??? . .  Ben Lover 
Schwartz seen with Diane Dines at 
the Sno Ball . . . Regardless or 
because of factors, the freshmen are 
still trying to play bridge . . . The 
TX Candlelight pledge party, com
plete with spider webs, Elec Tri
city was notable by his absence . . . 
Two twosomes at the Sno-ball: Na
dine Henry and an Ensign; and Elek 
Weiss and Fisher Body . . .
Notice
This year the Thistle is planning 
a new policy in its advertising. Pic
tures of Carnegie Tech co-eds will 
be taken at the stores of the various 
advertisers and will be featured on 
the advertising pages.
dergraduates.
On December 21, the PiKAs will 
give a Christmas dinner and dance 
at the house. Christmas decorations 
mean wreaths, mistletoe, and candle 
light.
The Theta Xi pledges gave a 
dance at the house. They had a four 
piece orchestra from school, and 
everyone danced by candle light. 
(Wattsa matter  no electricity on 
campus?)
Since this is the Christmas season 
and the last issue of the Tartan this 
year, Merry Christmas and a Happy 
New Year  or as they say in 
France, Seasons Greetings.
Notice
Next Wednesday, Freshman Tra
dition Re-exams will be given at 5 
P. M. Wednesday in Room 135, In
dustries Hall. APO is giving the 
exam.
THE MOSTHONORED
WATCHON THE
CAMPUS
WINNER OF 10 
WORLD S FAIR 
GRAND PRIZES,
28 GOLD MEDALS 
AND MORE HONORS 
FOR ACCURACY THAN 
ANY OTHER TIMEPIECE
CEs Plan Smoker, Movie
On Thursday, December 20, at 
8:00 p. m., the Carnegie Tech Stu
dent Chapter of the American So
ciety of Civil Engineers will hold a 
smoker at the Carnegie Union. The 
date previously announced was in
correct. At this meeting technicolor 
movies of the Cleveland inspection 
trip will be shown. Sound movies of 
various engineering subjects and 
current events will be followed by 
the serving of refreshments. All 
members of the Civil Engineering 
Department are cordially invited.
Citcom Plans Activities
On Thursday, December 13, fifteen 
Citcom members braved three 
inches of snow to go to a bowling 
party held at the University Alleys. 
Hereafter this is going to be a reg
ular event and all members who 
would like to go are invited to come 
to the one next week. The group 
meets at the alleys at 5:00.
At the last regular meeting the 
clan decided to hold a dinner and 
theater party on Friday, December 
21.
War Fund Drive Ends
On Tuesday, December 18, the 
Community Fund Drive, which 
started before the beginning of the 
semester, will close officially. While 
the total amount of $4554.10, which 
has been solicited from students on 
the Tech campus, is about 25% short 
of the goal, Kent Shaffer, chairman 
of the drive, has reported that the 
drive was successful and came up 
to expectations. All payments which 
have not been made are still due 
and should be payed promptly.
Maggie Murphs Plan Tea
A tea will be given December 10 
from 4:15 to 6:00 in honor of the 
faculty of Margaret Morrison. The 
purpose of the tea is to promote 
friendly relations between the Mar
garet Morrison Senate and faculty.
Mary Jane Horridge is the gen
eral chairman. Chairman of food is 
Millie Murrer; Chairman of invita
tions, Mary Madeline Gannon; chair
man of entertainment, Margaret 
Harris; chairman of decoration, Jean 
Price. All the class officers and Sen
ate members are asked to help.
NEW TELEPHONES
Full speed ahead on 
our biggest peacetime job
T
ODAY, conveyors like this at 
Western Electric are carrying 
thousands of new telephones for the 
Bell System.
But it takes far more than just tele
phones to provide service. It takes 
cable, central office equipment and 
many other complex items that cannot 
be produced and fitted into the tele
phone system overnight. On these 
things, too, production is steadily 
increasing.
Western Electric, supply unit of the 
Bell System, is hard at work on the 
biggest peacetime job in its history. 
Furnishing materials and equipment 
to meet the Systems immediate needs 
 and to carry out the Systems 
$2,000,000,000 post-war program  
promises record peacetime volume and 
a high level of employment.
Buy all the Victory Bondi you can 
 and keep theml
Western Electric
SOURCE OF SUPPLY FOR THE BELL SYSTEM

---------------------------------------------------

8THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, DECEMBER 18, 1841
Stfie (fraruecjie |Haid
Christmas Dance To Be Held 
In Thistle Hall, December 22
Committee Prepares 
For Large Turnout
Jingle bells, Jingle bellssounds 
like Christmas, doesnt it? Well, 
thats what it is, and here is one 
holiday affair that no Tech evening 
student will want to miss. It is the 
annual Interfraternity Evening Stu
dent Council Christmas Dance to be 
given at Thistle Hall on December 
22. (Notice the date, please, the 
22nd, next Saturday). The next 
thing that you have to do is find a 
nice partner for an evening of 
dancing to a good orchestra and 
buy a ticket for which you will pay 
the small amount of $1.10.
The members of the Committee 
are working hard to make the dance 
a real success. Get your tickets from 
members of Phi Nu, Sigma Delta 
Phi, Nu Sigma Alpha, Evening Stu
dent Council, the Plaid, or buy them 
at the door. This is a chance for all 
of you to come out and meet the 
members of the active organizations 
on the evening student campus. 
Clyde Carrolls orchestra will do the 
honors on music, sweet or fast, just 
the way you like it.
So remember, the 22nd, next Sat
urday night; 9:00 to 12:00 at Thistle 
Hall; your best dancing partner; and 
a ticket to the Interfraternity Eve
ning Student Council Christmas 
Dance.
Geographical Analysis Of 
Evening School Registration
Not too many PLAIDS ago there 
appeared a sketchy tabulation of the 
number of students registered for 
present Evening Semester. Now it 
might be interesting to the Evening 
Students to have this tabulation 
broken down into the number of 
students represented from their re
spective counties or towns. As usual 
Allegheny County leads the group 
with the greatest number of stu
dents represented, totalling 503 in
cluding Pittsburgh. Pittsburgh alone 
sends 444 students to Tech Evening 
School. Westmoreland County has 
58 students represented and its 
largest city, New Kensington, has 27 
of those students represented. Beav
er County places third with 25 Eve
ning Students. Ambridge has the 
greatest representation from this 
County with 11 students. Butler 
with 8 students and Lawrence 
County with 7 students follow in or
der. Then we must certainly men
tion that West Virginia has sent 4 
students and Ohio has one lonely 
student commuting from Wheeling. 
Gosh, I bet he gets bored talking to 
himself.
Summing up and giving the very 
latest registration results for this 
semester we find that our hope of 
last year for a larger enrollment at 
Evening School has been realized. 
Yes, we have 1069 students at Tech 
this semester. Watch that number 
soar up another few hundred next 
semester.
We would like to introduce to the 
student body at this time a very at
tractive, likeable person, who is al
ways ready with a warm friendly 
smile, and is your friend and mine. 
Shine the spotlight over here, boys, 
on Miss Elsie Capelli. Stop blushing, 
Elsie, stand up and take a bow.
For the benefit of our reading au
dience, who have yet to meet this 
campus Miss, we will try to draw 
a picture of her in your minds. We 
wouldnt want you to pass up any 
golden opportunities.
Elsie is 5 feet, 6 inches tall, has 
blue eyes, brown hair (recently cut 
to a 3-inch bobvery cute, too!) 
and we would say she weighs about 
120 pounds. Are we right?
This is Elsies first semester at 
evening school, and one can usually 
see her dashing into Industries for 
her class in English every Monday, 
and Friday night. Tech isnt new to 
her, for she is employed right here 
on campus during the day as a sec
retary in the Social Relations De
partment.
Being just a two-week old resi
dent of Brookline, she tells us it was 
quite a chore to move. So this ex
plains why Elsie has been kept busy 
nights for the last few weeks. Or 
does it?
She is a great sport enthusiast, 
and would like very much to be 
bathing in the sun on some beach 
instead of plowing through the 
snow. We gather from this that sun
bathing, which to most people is 
just a pleasant pastime, rates with 
this girl as her favorite sport.
Our captive for this evening was 
very reluctant about submitting to 
this interview, but finally admitted 
it wasnt too bad when we finished 
firing questions at her. Thank you 
very much, Elsie, and well be see
ing you around.
Plaid Reporter Views 
Play Damask Cheek
Last Monday evening, December 
10th, the students of the Drama 
Department presented The Damask 
Cheek in the Little Theatre. The 
play, although it will be over by 
the time you read this, ran for a 
week. This reporter attended the 
play on the second night of its per
formance and enjoyed it very much. 
Indeed, the entire audience seem
ed to enjoy it.
This article is not intended as a 
review, and certainly I am not a 
critic, but I feel that I must take 
advantage of this opportunity to ex
press a thought that came to me as
I watched the players. Heretofore, 
the plays always seemed very heavy 
and dramatic; ones that gave the ac
tors a chance to demonstrate their 
ability, with little regard to its en
joyment by the audience. The
Some Reflections On 
Seasons First Snowfall
The weather man never does 
things by halves any more  this 
present snowfall, for instance. The 
first snowfall of the season which 
began on Thursday has turned into 
a fairyland of rhinestone carpets 
and comforts. According to official 
reports the depth was 5.9 inches, but 
by unofficial judging it came to the 
middle of my boots, which is deep 
enough when it means sweeping or 
shoveling the snow off your side
walks.
In Pittsburgh the love of snow 
depends upon your locality. Down
town, where any snowdrift soon be
comes a puddle of water and slush 
lining the curbstones, with mudspattered cars spraying melted snow 
on the gals nylons (?), theres no 
wonder theres no love lost.
But lets get out of the citysay, 
out on the Tech campus. Once off 
the street car and on to the Cut, 
theres a new view. Long midnight 
shadows form winter patterns across 
the pools of light surrounding the 
lamp posts, and snowflakes floating 
past in pure boredom resemble the 
good old-fashioned Christmas cards. 
There are plenty of drifts if youve a 
mind for cavorting  just try the 
numerous stair steps on the campus.
But probably you all have your 
favorite spots  the hills where a 
sled is a sure requisitethe side
walks worn smooth by sliding  a 
bluff where the skiers can be seen 
silhouetted against the sky.
The first snowfall is always the 
prettiest, for there hasnt been time 
to tire of it, and it must be admitted 
that theres something extra special 
about the silence and beauty of the 
first snowfall.
fs&UosiH Nat&i
The PLAID staff wishes everyone 
a Merry Christmas. This is the time 
of the year when hearts are gay and 
the cares of the day seem to be as 
mists upon a troubled horizon. The 
time when Christmas Carols are 
sung, holly and mistletoe are hung, 
and ornaments are brought out of 
the attics with which to trim the 
tree. Everyone is in a festive mood, 
but let us stop our gay celebration 
for a moment and say a prayer for 
those who will never be with us 
again and who died that Peace on 
Earth, Good Will toward Men 
might be truly said throughout the 
world.
Damask Cheek, however, and also 
the first play of the season The Ro
mantic Youhg Lady, seemed to be 
selected with some thought in mind 
as to its acceptance by the general 
public. It had its share of humor and 
kept your interest from beginning to 
end. The plot was refreshing after 
some of the well-worn scenes we are 
seeing these days. The scenery was 
in good tastethe furnishings de
noting the correct period of time. 
The actors and actresses portrayed 
their parts with feeling, and each 
gave a competent performance.
Well, lets see who is behind the 
eightball tonight. Ha! Ha! Look who 
just walked in. None other than 
Jack Griffin. He hasnt been here for 
some time and is almost a stranger 
in these hyar parts ... I wish the 
people who are planning the last 
minute arrangements for the dance 
would take a powder. Their chit
chat is not conducive to the writing 
of a great masterpiece like this il
lustrious column. Speaking of these 
industrious workers, they have real
ly confused everyone. Last week the 
date of the dance was advertised as 
December 25. Why doesnt someone 
tell them that that is Christmas, I 
thought, when I read the article 
well, I was informed tonight that 
this was a slight mistake. The date 
is the TWENTY-SECOND, SATUR
DAY NIGHT. Well, in that case, Ill 
be there, will you? . . . Had to stop 
writing a moment to watch Ches 
Biscup tear a telephone book in 
two. No one believed he could do it 
but he did. Smile when you meet 
Ches after this. The boy must be 
strong . . . Steve, what is the story 
about the butcher and the dog? 
Someone suggested that I take that 
out of this article. Why? Im old 
enough to know . . . The Union is 
all dressed up in festive garb to
night. The Christmas tree in the liv
ing room is very attractive and 
makes us feel very cheerful. The 
wreathes, candles, and holly are 
very pretty. But where is the mis
tletoe? Maybe one of the girls on the 
staff would like to join me in a 
search for this very important item 
. . . Some people would ordinarily 
commit murder on being aroused 
from a deep sleep by the ring of a 
phone at 4:30 a. m., but when the 
caller is that extra-special someone 
well, thats a different (Eh, 
Marge) . . . Anne and Martha have 
a date tonight. Lucky girls. Wonder 
where they are now? . . . Two gals 
in the Monday  night voice and 
speech would like to go to the 
Christmas dance with two nice fel
lows. How about it, you men who 
are hunting dates? I could fix it up 
for you. One of the girls is a brun
ette and the other has reddishblond hair . . . Merry Christmas 
and a Happy New Year!
The Carnegie Plaid
Editor
Ruth McGraw
News Editor
Frank Mihelich
Associate Editors 
Virginia Ehni, Betty Ashcraft
Page edited by Evening School Students of 
Carnegie Institute of Technology. All views or 
opinions expressed in editorial column are not 
necessarily endorsed by the Editorial Board of 
the Day School Staff.
SUIT
Olive Baumgardner 
Martha Borkovich 
Betty Hopkins 
Florence Kelly 
Mary Kolson 
Irene Koerner 
Emma Jean Lewis 
Nancy E. Lewis 
Joy A. Ridgeway
Arlene McMurray 
Edw. E. McDonald 
Ann Rawlings 
Joseph M. Rymar 
Anne Sheck 
Dorothy Shields 
Fred L. Vichich 
Cecille Zellner 
Jack Griffin
