The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 38 No. 33CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1944
Delts and KSAE 
Victorious After 
Football Opening
The new intramural league, un
der the supervision of Professor 
Risedorph, this week opened hostili
ties in the 1944 intramural football 
league. Games were played on two 
newly-marked fields on the Cut, and 
officiated over by students quali
fied for the job.
The Theta Xis opened Wednes
day against the strong, all-fresh
man Wildcats on field two. Shortly 
after the opening whistle, Major 
George Rahall scampered twenty 
yards on a naked reverse for the 
first score. This performance was 
quickly duplicated, and the TXs 
had a sizeable lead at half time. 
Following a see-saw third quarter, 
the Wildcats unleashed their power 
to score sixteen points in three min
utes and walk off with the victory 
23-19.
Meanwhile, the other field rang 
with the thud of Tartan bodies as 
the KSAEs and the SAE Blue 
Devils leaned against each other in 
Continued on page 4
Home Ec Groups 
Form New Club
The Costume and Household Eco
nomics Clubs have seriously taken 
into consideration a suggestion of
fered by the new head of the de
part, Dr. Calla Van Syckle. She pro
posed that the clubs merge and or
ganize as one Home Economics 
Club.
With the new plan, the students 
of the three Home Economic de
partments can share their experi
ences and knowledge with other 
members. After the proposed plan 
was accepted, Mrs. Marie Greene, a 
member of the faculty at Mt. Mercy 
College and State advisor of the 
Student Home Economics Club of 
the State of Pennsylvania, offered 
information concerning the organ
ization of the club at a joint meet
ing of the two groups on October 
10th.
Nomination for officers were 
made and an election followed. The 
new officers of the organization are 
as follows:
Martha SantPresident.
Mary VincentVice President.
Clementine McKennaSecretary.
Miss MyersFaculty Advisor.
There will be a re-election for the 
office of treasurer during the week 
of October 16th.
If the first meeting is an indica
tion of the size and enthusiasm of 
the club, it promises to be one of 
the most successful associations on 
campus.
Notice
There will be scheduling for the 
Senior Thistle pictures from ten 
oclock until five oclock today. The 
scheduling will take place in Ad
ministration Hall. Will everybody 
please be present?
The Delts Quit C. F. P.; 
Will Not Support Dance
In a totally unprecedented move, 
the Delta Tau Delta fraternity has 
refused any further connection with 
the Council of Fraternity Presi
dents, the organization which has 
replaced the Interfraternity Council 
for the duration. This surprising an
nouncement was made by the Delt 
representatives at a turbulent emer
gency meeting of the council on 
Friday, October 13, at which a high
ly insulting letter, sent to Dean 
Daniels by the fraternity was dis
cussed. This letter, couched in need
lessly sarcastic and partially errone
ous terms, protested against the as
sessment made by the C. F. P. to 
finance the coming Halloween Hop. 
The communication also attacked 
the present equal representation of 
all fraternities, regardless of their 
membership.
The Council of Fraternity Presi
dents was established several se
mesters ago as a temporary neces
sity, in view of the abnormal enroll
ment and the critical circumstances 
of the Carnegie Tech fraternities. It 
was meant to be, and still is, an or
ganization based purely on coopera
tion and good will, and not only 
gave the fraternity leaders a chance 
to discuss ways and means with 
which to meet the current emer
gency, but also to take any action 
or to organize any social event to 
which all members would agree. No 
constitution or laws were drawn up 
to enforce any such agreements, for 
it was felt that the moral obliga
tions incurred would bind all fra
ternities to the decisions made. Un
til Fridays shocking event, all fra
ternities have lived up to it, and 
statements made by the presidents 
of all houses except the one involv
ed show that the remainder will 
continue to respect moral ties in 
the future.
The events leading up to the un
expected clash were quite in keep
ing with the Councils short history. 
After deciding upon a date, theme 
and other details of a dance, the 
C. F. P. discussed financial matters 
for two consecutive meetings, there
by giving all representatives am
ple time to consult the members of
Institute Observes 
Forty-Eighth Birthday
Last Thursday marked the fortyeighth anniversary of Founders 
Day, an event which commemorates 
Andrew Carnegie and his gener
osity towards the city of Pittsburgh. 
In former, more normal, years, it 
was the custom for the Tech student 
body to migrate over to Carnegie 
Music Hall, accompanied by the 
Kiltie Band and general merry
making, where addresses would be 
delivered by Tech associates and 
tribute paid to Carnegie. This year, 
however, circumstances made such 
a celebration impractical and the 
only event scheduled was the CarContinued on page 3
their respective fraternities as to 
the latters opinions. At the second 
meeting it was voted and unanim
ously passed  a Delta Tau Delta 
representative being present at both 
this and the previous meetingthat 
attendance at the dance would be 
compulsory to all members and 
pledges of fraternities, and that the 
treasurers of the houses would be 
expected to pay to the Council di
rectly the cost of tickets for the 
members of their fraternity. No ob
jection to this was raised by the 
Delt representative, and he, like all 
the other members, voted aye to 
the measure.
On Thursday, October 12, ten 
days after this meeting, Dean Dan
iels received a communication from 
the Delta Tau Delta fraternity, in 
which it questioned the right of an 
unconstitutional body assuming the 
name of Council of Fraternity Pres
idents to assess, and refused to 
make the payments to which their 
representative had agreed pre
viously, and to which they were, 
therefore, morally, if not legally, 
bound. The Delts, so the letter as
serted, considered it highly un
fair that they were expected to 
pay approximately eighty dollars 
(for about forty tickets) when cer
tain other fraternities were only 
assessed ten or twelve dollars (for 
five or six tickets). They threatened 
not to keep their promise until they 
would receive representation on the 
Council proportionate to their large 
membership.
Dean Daniels notified Mr. Gibian, 
chairman of the C. F. P. of the re
ceipt of this letter, upon which a 
special meeting of the Council was 
called on Friday afternoon. This 
meeting resulted in a spirited dis
cussion of the letter and its implica
tions, at the conclusion of which the 
Deltsone representative and three 
assistantsstated that they would 
not pay, and would have no more 
part in the Council of Fraternity 
Presidents until they would receive 
increased representation, or until 
membership would be denied to 
smaller fraternities. They called the 
Council a body without backbone, 
i. e. without legal means to enforce 
its decisions.
After the meeting, Mr. Gibian 
called the Delts move extremely 
disloyal to all fraternities. The 
Delts fell back on their word. Of 
course, the dance will go on re
gardless, and now, more than ever, 
I count upon the attendance of all 
loyal Techites. Mr. Jones, president 
of the DUs, stated:'It seems quite 
odd to me that the Delts have no 
faith in moral obligations. Besides, 
they should have brought up their 
complaints at the meeting. They 
had ample time. Mr. Marcus, Beta 
Sigma Rho, expressed surprise 
. .to see that the Delts cannot 
participate in a council based on 
good will and moral obligations.
E. A. L.
17th Annual Reunion Set
Alumni Set Saturday 
For Homecoming Day
The 17th Annual C. I. T. Home
coming will be held on Saturday, 
October 21, with its main headquar
ters at Webster Hall. Since there is 
no football game this year the fes
tivities will be condensed into only 
one day.
In the morning at 10:00 in Web 
ster Hall there will be an Alumni 
Council meeting. The Pittsburgh 
Womens Clan is sponsoring a recep
tion and tea for all alumni, friends, 
administration, and faculty in the 
afternoon from 3:00 to 6:00 at Car
negie Union. In the evening at 7:00 
the alumni and others will be en
tertained at a dinner dance at Web
ster Hall. At the dinner Dr. Doher
ty will present his annual report to 
the alumni.
This Homecoming is the special 
reunion of those classes whose dates 
end in four or nine, such as 1909, 
1914, 1929, etc. Many of these groups 
are planning to have special noon 
reunion lunches and to sit as a 
group at the dinner in the evening.
Prior to 1927, the year in which 
the Homecomings were first termed 
as such and first held in the fall, 
the annual reunions were held in 
the spring concurrently with the 
Spring Carnival.
Klingman to Speak 
On Buying Clothes*
Mrs. Jane Klingman, Chief of the 
Womens Outerwear Section in the 
Consumer Goods Price Division of 
OPA, will speak at Margaret Mor
rison at 4:00 P. M., Wednesday, Oc
tober 18. Her subject is When You 
Buy Clothes, and she will exhibit 
garments which illustrate the points 
she makes about garment evalua
tion. The meeting is sponsored by 
the Carnegie Tech Home Economics 
students and faculty and will be 
held in the Recreation Hall of Mar
garet Morrison.
Mrs. Klingman was a clothing 
buyer and merchandiser before 
joining the national OPA staff in 
Continued on page 3

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1944
Zdito^L A'imciuu'i
The Bid For Power
Two weeks ago we devoted this column to a discussion of fraternities 
in the past and at present, stating that most of these organizations have 
changed with the times by placing great value on characteristics which 
were far beyond the mental and moral standard of the rah-rah groups 
of old. But we also said that there still remains a minority with an attitude 
of the past, and Fridays events have shown how right we were. We would 
have preferred to be wrong.
We do not have to repeat the facts of the casethey are adequately 
described in the article on the front page of this issuenor is ours the task 
to explain or defend the attitude of the Council , of Fraternity Presidents. 
But even without these obligations we can hardly find enough words to 
condemn the action taken by the Delta Tau Delta fraternity.
It makes little difference whether we accept the explanations offered by 
the Delts, or the motives which we see behind their stand. Both are equally 
damning. Consider the excuses. The Delta Tau Delta fraternity refuses any 
further connection with the Council as long as it remains an organization 
without backbone, that is, without a rigid and all encompassing set of 
rules and regulations, a criminal code which specifies what is to be done 
with naughty boys when they do not do what they are told. The Delts can
not take the risk of affiliating with an organization based on mutual trust, 
moral obligations, and gentlemens agreements. It seems strange that this 
should be the attitude of a large fraternityit is the down-trodden minor
ity, the underdog, which usually clamors for legal protectionbut, never
theless, these are the reasons for the Delts withdrawal from C. F. P., given 
by their representatives at Fridays meeting.
But no matter how shady and how damning these explanations may be, 
we refuse to accept them. We are convinced that the Delts motives are quite 
different. They are sitting very prettily now, with a membership almost 
twice as large as that of any other fraternity; whether that is due to indiscriminatory rushing or to some other factor makes little difference. The 
other frats, with one or two exceptions, are struggling along with a mem
bership far below their pre-war standards and needs. The Delts know 
quite well, however, that their unique strength will disappear as soon as 
normal conditions return . . . that is, unless something is done about it 
right now. And that, we believe, is what the Delts have attempted to do. 
Believing that the existence of the Halloween Hop depended on their sup
port, they took the attitude If you want a dance, do as we tell you. And 
they would tell the Council either to give them so many votes, or to kick 
out so many small fraternities, that the Delts and a few other housesthe 
inclusion of the latter is probably a deplorable necessity to themwould 
have such a rigid control of fraternity affairs now that this domination 
would carry over into peace time, and prevent the resurrection of the 
many fraternities which today are virtually non-existent. Unfortunately 
for them, the scheme blew up right in their faces, for the Council refused 
to be intimidated.
Rarely has a move or action met such universal disapproval as the 
Delts bolt from the Council. Almost everyone on campus, fraternity men 
and independents alike, seems to have some unfavorable comment on the 
matter, and it is interesting to note that among the anger and resentment 
there is a almost triumphant note of Well, this time they stuck their neck 
out too far. Now theyll get it good.
We wont mind.
E. A. L.
Calling All Poets
The National Poetry Association has announced November 5th as the 
closing date for students to submit verse for publication in the 1944 
Anthology of College Poetry.
With the suspension of the Scottie this semester, and the necessarily 
fprose-only standard of the Tartan, this offer an excellent opportunity 
for those students here at Carnegie Tech whose poetic efforts may be curb
ed because they have no chance to submit their work to a publication.
The appearance of ones work in a publication compiling efforts of 
students at other colleges will give him an opportunity to compare his 
work with that of his fellow students.
An interesting feature of this offer is that there are no charges or fee 
for the inclusion of any verse submitted.
This is your chance to prove to yourself that you can really write 
poetry and to the college world that a technical school does not breed an 
essentially technical mind.
A. C. H.
Opinion expressed, in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the ttaff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not to b construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
Our Humble Opinion
By Hannah Estermann
The Carnegie Tartan
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
ION* MAYFLOWER 2600 PHONE SCHENLEY 4551
After Office Hours CallNational Advertising Service, Inc.
CMtt Publishers Representative 
420 Madison Avi. New Youk N. Y. 
Cimo  sosto  Los AMius  Sa FaiKMco
Editor-in-Chief ............................EM. 9424
Business Manager.........................EM. 9424
The choice of The Old Maid as the 
first production of this season dem
onstrates again the experimental 
nature of the Drama Department. 
Definitely an actors play, it gives 
the students a real field day for air
ing their interpretations of various 
emotions. This is not an audience 
show, although it does have a cer
tain appeal, as was seen by the 
number of handkerchiefs in use 
during the latter half. There is, 
however, a large number of people 
who wouldnt go for this sort of stuff, 
and if you are a blood and thun
der enthusiast you had better come 
prepared with a flashlight and a 
good mystery novel or else you 
might not stay awake. On the other 
hand, the portrayal of the two cen
tral roles is sufficiently interesting 
to keep you from realizing how 
hard the seats in the Little Theater 
are.
This slightly morbid drama is 
based on the struggle between two1 
conflicting loves in a typically Vic
torian woman, the love of her child 
and the love of her fiance. Compli
cations arise from jealousy, selfish
ness, and hate, as must always hap
pen when two women love the same 
man. In this case Delia, the belle of 
the Lovell family jilts her lover, 
who promptly goes to her brides
maid for consolation. Some years 
later, as Charlotte is about to make 
a good marriage, it develops that 
she has already had a child, which 
she must now give up. She mistak
enly confides in Delia, who delib
erately wrecks the marriage  not 
because Charlotte has misbehaved, 
but because she had misbehaved 
with the man who was supposed to 
be her own loverletting the un
happy Charlotte have her daughter 
live with her by way of consolation 
prize. Eventually Delia takes both 
mother and daughter into her own 
home. One sees them again twelve 
years later, Charlotte an embitter
ed old maid, Delia worshipped as a 
mother by both her own and Char
lottes child.
As you can see, plot is not the
Pictures for Thistle 
Scheduled This Week
All Thistle group pictures will be 
taken in the Fine Arts Building in
stead of at the Carnegie Union.
The following Thistle pictures 
will be taken in Fine Arts Building:
October 22
1:00 Tau Sigma Delta
1:10 Theta Tau
1:20 Eta Kappa Nu
1:30 Beta Theta Pi Officers
1:40 Beta Theta Pi Actives
1:50 Beta Theta Pi Pledges
2:00 Council of Fraternity Presidents
2:10 Beta Sigma Rho Officers
2:20 Beta Sigma Rho Actives
2:30 Beta Sigma Rho Pledges
2:40 Delta Tau Delta Officers
2:50 Delta Tau Delta Actives
3:00 Delta Tau Delta Pledges
3:10 Delta Upsilon Officers
3:20 Delta Upsilon Actives
3:30 Sigma Alpha Epsilon Officers
3:40 Sigma Alpha Epsilon Actives
3:50 Sigma Alpha Epsilon Pledges
4:00 Tau Delta Phi Officers
4:10 Tau Delta Phi Actives
4:20 Tau Delta Phi Pledges
4:30 Theta Xi Officers
4:40 Theta Xi Actives
4:50 Theta Xi Pledges
5:00 Kappa Sigma
5:10 Phi Kappa
5:20 Sigma Nu
5:30 Pi Kappa Alpha
chief virtue of this play. It is, in
stead, a static drama in which char
acterization is all-important. For 
some reason, although we are 
asked to believe that these people 
are Victorians, no one seems partic
ularly concerned with the moral as
pects. What bothered us even more 
was that after barely mentioning it, 
the principle crime of the play, 
Delias deliberately and unnecessar
ily spoiling all her counsins 
chances of future happiness, is never 
referred to again. Also we thought 
that the characters of both the lead
ing women developed a little incon
sistently, but after all, that is not 
the fault of the Drama Department. 
They are only responsible for the 
acting and the production. Both 
were rather uneven.
The major roles are all done very 
well indeed. Particularly fine is 
Mary Laura Wood as Delia, the girl 
who had everything. Doris Fast 
does a nice job on Charlotte, espec
ially as the frustrated old maid in 
the last act. The only comedy relief 
in the show is in the character of 
the elderly Parisian aunt, a grave 
digger role ably portrayed by Rita 
Sheinman; of course, even this is 
only funny because its in so gloomy 
an atmosphere. All other laughs 
were highly unintentional and prob
ably a surprise to the cast. Among 
the men, Jack Hochhauser, as the 
family doctor, is better than any of 
the others except Marquis Patter
son, who doesnt have much to do. 
Unfortunately, the doctor doesnt 
age very convincingly during the 
course of the play, and in general 
is slightly on the hammy side. Only 
all the rest of the male actors are 
worse, and so are the supporting 
actresses, with the exception of 
Margaret Glenn and Adele Lipkin 
as the two daughters.
The staging is really quite effec
tive. Many parts of the play call for 
pauses in the dialogue, which bring 
in some very clever bits of pantomine. We liked especially Delias 
unspoken soliloquy in the middle of 
the second act. However, as fre
quently happens, the good thing is 
overdone, and some of the pauses 
are more awkward than eloquent. 
The first scene of the third act has 
such an effiective ending that on 
opening night at least a dozen peo
ple (we counted them) left, think
ing the play was over. Perhaps it 
would be a good idea for somebody 
to put up a big sign at this juncture 
reminding the audience that there 
is more to come.
We liked both the scenery and the 
costumes, which were extremely 
well chosen and suitable for the sev
eral characters who wore them (the 
costumes, not the scenery!). The 
play definitely had its good points, 
and many people will like it, but 
somehow it just doesnt quite jell. 
P. S. What ever happened to Joe?
Notice
The pilot meeting of the Tech 
glee club will be held today with 
Dean Daniels. Everyone who is 
interested in the glee club is urged 
to attend.
Kaltrsl a* TheCarngi matter la the Pittsburgh Post Office nnder the Act of March 3, 187#. Pibllshd weekly daring school year, except holiday* and examination periods. 
8sbscrlptioh Price Si.10 per year.
Editors-in-chief.......................................................... Ernie Lowenstein, Adeline Herlick
Business Manager ................................................................................................ Ivan Faigen
Managing Editor ............................................................................................... Clara Herron

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1944THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
AT SCHENLEY PARK
YOUR CHOICE OF A BANK 
MAY BE THE BEGINNING 
OF A LONG AND USEFUL 
ASSOCIATION
r
SMISI
MELLON 
NATIONAL BANK
MIMBIR FEDERAL DEPOSIT 
INSURANCE CORPORATION
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
]
Let's go to
ISALY'S
MILK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM CONES
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the Oollege 
District
5808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Allies
Micas special insulating qualities are mighty important in 
communications equipment. No equivalent exists, so wars 
huge demands caused a critical shortage.
Bell Telephone Laboratories scientists were assigned the 
task of somehow finding more mica. They found it  in the 
very considerable amounts of raw mica which visual inspec
tion had rejected. By developing electrical apparatus to test 
the two most important electrical properties, they increased 
the usable amount of mica by half and so stretched current 
supplies of mica to fill all military needs.
In many such ways the Bell System is serving the nation, 
constantly meeting the needs of our fighting forces for 
dependable communications.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM 
wService to the Nation in Peace and War 
INFORMALDANCING
Every 
Saturday Night
Joey Sims 
Orchestra
85c per person 
plus tax
Room 110
er piece, Black-eyed Susans. Ra
phael Soyer, Russian-born Ameri
can instructor at the Art Students 
League in New York, won second 
honorable mention and $300 for his 
room scene, Young Woman in Stu
dio. Another New York painter, 
Stuart Davis, was awarded third 
honorable mention and $200 for his 
abstract, Arboretum by Flash 
Bulb. Fourth honorable mention 
and $100 went to Horace Pippin, a 
Pennsylvanian, for his landscape 
Cabin in the Cotton.
Representing Tech were: Sam
uel Rosenberg, assistant professor of 
art, who entered his painting 
Bread, picture of a group of 
people hungrily stretching for a 
few loaves of bread. The canvass 
is in the stained-glass effect for 
which Mr. Rosenberg is noted. Bal
coni Greene catered an abstract ti
tled Profoundly Blue; Roy Hilton, 
assistant professor, entered a farm 
scene called On the Home Front; 
and Russell Twiggs also entered 
an abstract which he titled Ver
tical Construction.
Founders Day
Continued from page 1 
negie Institute (which includes the 
Museum and Library and is not to 
be confused with the Carnegie In
stitute of Technology) program that 
took place Thursday evening simul
taneously with the opening of the 
Founders Day Exhibition.
Due to the situation today, it was 
impossible to collect paintings for 
an international exhibit so the 
theme of the showing is Painting 
in the United States, 1944 and in
cludes, of course, pictures from art
ists in this country only. In all, 
there are three hundred and eleven 
pictures entered, making this the 
largest and most inclusive showing 
of current American painting ever 
displayed in Pittsburgh. All the 
paintings have been done within 
the last five years, most of them 
within the last two. Surprisingly 
enough, there are few canvasses 
which deal with any part of war 
now raging.
As usual, Carnegie Tech was rep
resented by the pictures of a num
ber of people who either attended 
the school or are now on the fac
ulty. None of these, however, was 
awarded a prize by the jury which 
was composed of Henri Marceau, 
Assistant Director, Philadelphia Mu
seum of Art; Daniel Catton Rich, Di
rector of Fine Arts, the Art Institute 
of Chicago, and Gordon Bailey 
Washburn, Director, Museum of 
Art, Rhode Island School of Design, 
Providence. John OConnor, Jr., 
Acting Director of the Department 
of Fine Arts of Carnegie Institute, 
was chairman of the jury.
A brief review of the prize-win
ning pictures and members of the 
Tech faculty follows:
First prize of one thousand dol
lars was awarded to Yasuo Kuniyoshi, an American Japanese now 
teaching at the Art Students 
League and at the New School for 
Social Research, for his still life 
entitled Room 110. The $700 sec
ond prize went to Marion Green
wood, one of the fourteen artists 
working for the Medical Depart
ment Art Project of the Army 
Service Forces, for her Mississippi 
Girl, a picture of a sitting Negro. 
Siesta, a painting of a girl re
clining on a sofa, was the third prize 
winner, and was painted by Doris 
Lee, now living in the art colony at 
Woodstock, New York. The first 
honorable mention, which includes 
an award of $400, was given to Wal
do Peidce, of New York, for his flowKlingman ...
Continued from page 1 
Washington, D. C., and has a wealth 
of training and experience to draw 
upon. She is a very attractive young 
woman and an interesting speaker. 
Students not taking Home Econom
ics, members of local womens or
ganizations, city home economics 
teachers, and other interested per
sons are cordially invited to attend.
Among the features of the exhi
bition were an explanation by Miss 
Rosenstrauch of these new ideas in 
percussion work, individual im
provisations connecting percussion 
with movement, singing, and piano 
playing, and a pantomime with per
cussion accompaniment written and 
directed by a sophomore, Ainslie 
Bricker. This skit was a represen
tation of an office v/ith percussion in
struments suggesting both the per
sonality and characteristics of the 
workers and also accompanying 
their work with the proper sound 
effects.
Testing Mica Sheets
Dalcroze Eurythmies 
Demonstrated Friday
Miss Henrietta Rosenstrauch, 
Professor of Dalcroze Eurythmies 
students, demonstrated some of the 
possibilities of percussion instru
ments to a group of public school 
teachers at Stephen Foster Me
morial Hall Friday afternoon, Octo
ber 13. Miss Rosenstrauch was ask
ed to present the demonstration as 
a feature of the Western Pennsylva
nia Education Conference.
The main aim in her demonstra
tion was to emphasize that percus
sion has a much greater possibility 
of expression than that of mere 
rythmic accompaniment. Percussion 
instruments, because of the many 
values and hues of their tone color 
and because of their rythmic inter
est, can be used without other types 
of musical instruments in solos, as 
a vital part of dance composition, 
and in many different kinds of en
sembles and orchestras.

---------------------------------------------------

4TH, CARNEGIE TARTAN
\
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1944The PlaidStudent Employment ^JaUi 9n Khaki . .
Council President 
Is Granted Power 
To Name Members
The election party on Saturday 
evening at the Margaret Morrison 
Recreational Hall marked the be
ginning of what promises to be an 
eventful year for the evening stu
dent body in its support of Evening 
Student Council and its social cal
endar.
Entertainment started with danc
ing to recordings and accordian mu
sic by Tom Harkenrider, formerly 
with Sammy Kayes orchestra. Lat
er in the evening Tom played sev
eral solo selections, and the mysti
fying magic by Henry Abel held the 
audience spellbound.
Steve Marcinizyn presided over 
the general meeting. He commented 
on the necessity for the recent de
parture from strict eligibility rules 
in order that Council be kept intact. 
Those present were asked to offer 
suggestions. It was moved, second
ed, and unanimously voted that 
Chester Biscup, president of Even
ing Student Council, be granted the 
power to appoint council members 
for the current year.
Mr. Biscup was then introduced 
to the student body. He urged co
operation in extracurricular activi
ties and stated that plans are being 
formulated for class representation 
in the near future. The names of 
the members selected for this years 
council will be announced in the 
next issue of the Plaid.
Jietien to- ^JUe ZdUvi
Where will it all end?
This question is now before the 
Congress of the United States. It is 
not the war raging across the sea to 
which we refer. It is rather the 
revolution transpiring here at home 
that we have in mind.
Ever since the turn of the century 
there has been a loud, insistent 
clamor for womens rights. But did 
this shouting subside when the 
woman was given the right to vote? 
Did it even lessen when in disgust 
the men acquiesced to the idea of 
a woman puffing away on her cigar
ette out in public? Undoubtedly not! 
Most rational people are in accord 
with the saying, You cant have 
your cake and eat it too. Yet the 
ladies seem to believe that it is pos
sible. To that end they not only de
mand full equality with men, but 
they also insist upon receiving the 
tender, chivalrous treatment that 
gentlemen accorded the blushing, 
demure young lady of yesterday.
The Plaid
Editor 
Joseph M. Rymar
News Editor
Mary de Maria Associate Editors Ruth McGraw Arlene McMurray
Page edited by Evening School Students of Carnegie Institute of Technology. All views of pinions expressed in editorial column are not necessarily endorsed by the Editorial Board of 
tbs Day School Staff.
Yes, a gentleman should be cour
teous, relinquishing his chair to the 
lady, tipping his hat in deference, 
etc. But when are the men going to 
attain equality with the women?
The profound question before the 
Congress of our country is, believe 
it or not, a bill to permit an amend
ment to the Constitution, providing 
EQUALITY FOR WOMEN! Now 
are we men unjust in our reason
ing? Or is this where we came in?
Staff
Olive Baumgardner 
Florence Chorba Virginia Ehni Thelma Kitchen Irene Koemer 8. W. Marcinizyn
Elaine Martin 
Frank Mihelich Dorothy Papa Milton Ryan Dorothy Shields Lois Schultz
Perhaps you have noticed the tir
ed, perplexed look on Harry Rettger, Jr., this year. It seems that his 
newly acquired son, Harry the 
Third, wont sleep any more at 
nightsall because of his dad burn
ing the midnight oil on his calculus 
problems . . . Dont rush, boys! But 
the class of classes certainly must 
be that much publicized group of 
thirty-odd lonely damsels in the 
Voice and Speech I class on Tuesday 
evenings . . . Found the perfect 
student! Only Harold Parks could 
drive the whole way from Glenshaw to Carnegie Tech before dis
covering that he forgot his books 
. . . The rumor that our handsome 
editor, Joe, turned away male help
ers for the Plaid in order to keep 
all these good-looking women to 
himself simply is trueaccording to 
Joe. But boy! I certainly wouldnt 
blame him if he should do just that!
. . . when a lassie waits for a lad
die after class for almost an hour 
and walks impatiently up and down 
the cut twice, it must be something! 
I actually saw it happen! Yep! 
Cupid rides again! . . . Nancy Kunkle is back in Harmony this year. 
Glad to see you, Nance! (Or is 
that last crack reserved for Phil 
Silvers exclusively) . . . Our bou
quet of the week goes to Miss 
Haves, Secretarial teacher, for her 
kind cooperation in helping the 
Publicity Chairman advertise the 
Election Party. Also, hats off to Mr. 
Moses who so fervently (small won
der, teaches some of our hesitant 
bathing beauties (?) to swim! . . . 
Could anybody inform bewildered 
me as to the whereabouts of the 
Misses Chorba and Schultz last Fri
day night when they should have 
ben sweating it out in the Plaid 
Office? . . . And, oh yes, as a last 
minute reminder, in spite of the de
mands by day students, Dal McKelway reports that he still has a few 
theatre tickets available for the play 
to the evening students in Room 255
I. H.
A*uuutHce4m*U
Evening Students! Watch for an 
early announcement regarding par
ticulars about a party that the So
cial Committee is planning to hold 
sometime just before Thanksgiving. 
It promises to be a real humdinger, 
so keep yourself posted by watch
ing for further news in the Plaid.
All students who received summer jobs 
through the employment office are re
quested to report to Mrs. Major in Room 
155-A, Ind. Hall.
Girls
Receptionist in institution for blind. 
Room and board.
Boys
One boy wanted for evening work on 
campus. From 6 to 11, five nights a week. 
50c an hour.
Chauffeur wanted by family living near 
campus. Must be on call.
Holiday work. Postoffice and railroad 
companies are now lining up boys for 
work during the Christmas season. Those 
interested should report to Mrs. Major 
for further information.
Boy or Girl
Assistant in florist shop in East Lib
erty. From 6 to 9, four or five nights a 
week. 50c an hour.
Students who desire part time work 
and have not yet registered in the em
ployment office are urged to do so as 
soon as possible.
Sports . . .
Continued from page 1 
much the slower game of the day. 
Lloyd Susini, star back of the Blue 
Devils, was held carefully in check, 
and it was not until the third quar
ter, when Jimmy Slick-chick 
Simpson, of KSAE, turned his left 
end for a TD, that a score was re
corded. This proved to be the only 
action of the day, and the KSAEs 
walked off with a 6-0 victory.
The Beta-Delt game was the open
er for both teams on Thursday. Cas
ualties were heavy on both sides. 
Bill Jones broke away arly in the 
game to run nearly the length of the 
field for a score. The Delts came 
back, however, to tie at the half, 7-7. 
The green Beta team, weakened by 
losses to the basketball squad, 
fought off the Delts momentarily, 
but finally succumbed to the speed 
and flash of Roby and Bradway. The 
final score: Delts, 22, Betas, 7.
Perhaps the best game of the 
league so far was at that time being 
staged on the other field. The burly 
Wildcats were matched against the 
equally burly and more determined 
KSAEs in one of the loudest games 
seen recently on the cut. The play 
see-sawed through the first quar
ter, and not until Ed Smuts took a 
long pass on the Wildcat sixteen 
did the break come. Three plays 
punched it over, and the KSAEs 
led 7-0. Immediately after the half, 
the Wildcats drove the length of the 
field, with Mike Theodore finally 
passing for the TD. At this point the 
207 pound KSAE line asserted itself, 
tearing gaping holes in the opposi
tion, and Gillespie and Simpson 
each plunged for touchdowns. Final 
score: KSAEs 22, Wildcats 7.
RODGERS
DAIRY STORES
MILK SHAKES
Made from Pure Whole Milk for 
only 15c
We Do Not Use Skim Milk.

NEAREST STORES LOCATED
------AT------
3905 FORBES STREET 
Near Bouquet Street 
4619 CENTER AVENUE
Near Craig Street
By Dale Wright
Tech was represented in the 
strange story of that AAF crew 
which was shot down in Roumania, 
imprisoned, and recently freed, in 
the person of 2nd Lt. Joseph L. 
Delvin, navigator on a B-24 bomber. 
Lt. Delvin is a former Carnegie 
Tech student and resident of Pitts
burgh. He has been awarded the 
Air Medal.
To the long list of Carnegie heroes 
in this war has now been added the 
name of the gallant Second Lieuten
ant Gale H. Lyon. Lyon has been 
awarded the Distinguished Flying 
Cross for extraordinary achieve
ment in aerial flight and the accom
plishment with distinction of more 
than fifty fighter combat missions 
over enemy-held territory of North
ern Burma. Lt. Lyon also holds the 
Air Medal and has downed two en
emy planes in his nine months of 
service in the China-Burma-India 
sector.
First Lieutenant Robert W. Ben
son, former Carnegie student, has 
arrived at an AAF redistribution 
station in Miami Beach where he 
will rest and play for two weeks 
while awaiting new assignment. 
Benson was a Liberator navigator 
in the European theater for ten 
months. The Lieutenant flew on 
thirty missions and holds the Dis
tinguished Flying Cross and Air 
Medal with three oak leaf clusters.
Tech Sergeant William G. Tylavsky, a Pittsburgh boy and former 
Carnegie student, has been awarded 
an oak leaf cluster for the Air Med
al for meritorious service in aerial 
flight while participating in sus
tained operational activities against 
the enemy as an engineer on a B-24 
Liberator in Italy.
Staff Sergeant Donald L. Robin
son, a radio ham in civilian life 
and former student of meteorologic
al engineering at Carnegie, is now 
serving as a radio maintenance man 
with a headquarters group of the YForce Operations Staff in South
western China. The Y-Force is the 
American military mission which is 
engaged in training, supplying, and 
giving tactical and strategic advice 
to the armies of the Chinese Ex
peditionary Force.
Fort Pitt is the Place 
to Rent
TYPEWRITERS
ALL
MAKES
$3.00 per 
Month
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
