The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 36. No. 18__________ CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA. TUESDAY? FEBRUARY 9, 1943
Pick a Queen from this suit of hearts! Yes, these are the candidates in todays 
election. Reading from left to right, in the bottom row: Jean MacDonald, Kappa
Phi Delta; Jean Weinkauf, Alpha Theta Sigma; Ruth Kwall, Mu Alpha Gamma; in 
the top row, Ada Marraccini, Alpha Kappa Psi; Betty Langan, Gamma Gamma 
Gamma; Margaret Rose Skeehan, Gamma Phi Sigma; Barbara Griscom, Beta Pi. 
Because of illness, Jane Swearer of Beta Tau Lambda was unable to be present 
when the above picture was taken.
Students Vote Today 
For Queen; J. Prom 
Has Valentine Motif
By Alan Schneider
Important memo for Tuesday, 
February 9: Try to find registration 
card and vote for my favorite Jun
ior beauty in Administration, Arts, 
or Maggie Murph, between 11:30 
and 1:30. Let me be thinking calm
ly now. Theres Ada Marraccini, 
Alpha Kap; Jean MacDonald, Kap
pa; Betty Langan, Tri Gam; Judy 
Skeehan, Gamma; Babs Griscom, 
Beta Pi; Jean Weinkauf, Alpha; 
Ruth Kwall, Mu Alpha Gamma; and 
Jane Swearer, Beetle. Decisions! De
cisions! Always decisions! And me 
a befuddled cub who gets trampled 
or in the office.
But even a lowly cub gets around. 
Take me, for instance. Ive met more 
people tracking down all the angles 
on the Junior Prom story. Fifty per
cent of the student enrollment 
seems to be involved in making J. P. 
the best dance of the year.
First on my list of folk to be in
terviewed was Jim Voelz, ticket 
chairman of the Delta Skull social 
committee. As Jim gave out with 
the info, I scribbled some heiroglyphic notes in my little black book: 
Schenley Hotel, Saturday, February 
13 from nine to one; informal, Bernie Armstrongs KDKA Orchestra 
with Vocalist Buzz Asten, NO COR
SAGES, and $2.20 per couple. 
Thence, to Maureen Dyer, president 
of Intersorority Council who gave 
me more romantic (Jim Braden, 
chairman of the dance, said to stress 
the Valentine theme) lowdown on 
the Queen of Hearts. Every stu
dent is eligible to vote and Scoop! 
Gary Lawrence will paint a pastel 
portrait of the Queen! I spoke to 
Hal Dickson too. Hes the man who 
collected and posted the photo
graphs of the candidates at each 
polling place.
Continued on page 4
Religious Emphasis 
Week Begins Feb, 16
Under the sponsorship of the com
bined Christian Association cabi
nets, Carnegie Techs annual Re
ligious Emphasis Week begins Feb
ruary 16 and ends the following 
Sunday.
The theme of the week is Re
ligion  The Answer. Proceedings 
will be instituted in the Little The
ater next Tuesday by Rev. Francis 
Cox, who has very recently return
ed from China.
After studying at North Carolina 
University and the University of 
Virginia, Dr. Cox practiced law for 
ten years until the outbreak of the 
World War. He served as a captain 
of Field Artillery and after the Ar
mistice began a course of study for 
the Episcopalian ministry at Vir
ginia Theological Seminary. In 1921 
he married and left for China.
Here he served sixteen years as a 
missionary in Soochow. For the 
following five years he acted as 
Chancellor of the St. Johns Univer
sity in Shanghai. Early last year he 
was captured by the Japanese and 
after an eventful period as a pris
oner, returned to America last Aug
ust on the exchange ship Gripsholm.
Since his return he has been lec
turing throughout the country until 
January 20, when he arrived in 
Pittsburgh to take up his duties as 
a rector in the Church of the Re
deemer.
Harold Dickson 44, the Y. M. C. 
A. cabinet member responsible for 
obtaining speakers, has reported 
that plans for scheduling additional 
ministers are almost completed. The 
plan is to have a speaker for each 
fraternity and each dorm, both 
mens and womens.
For the benefit of the commuters, 
plans are being made for a dinner at 
the Union, Thursday, February 18, 
to be prepared by the C. W. C. A. Dr. 
Cox will lead an informal discus
sion concerning China.
Gen. Doolittle Honors 
Joseph Beck, Mgt. 40 
With Coveted D. S ,C.
First Carnegie Tech graduate to 
be awarded the Distinguished Serv
ice Cross is Captain Joseph A. Beck, 
Management, 40. He was decorat
ed in North Africa on February 4, 
by Major General James H. Doolit
tle for extreme gallantry and brav
ery.
While under enemy air attack, 
Captain Beck landed an unarmed 
troop transport plane which was 
carrying a full load of parachute 
troops. Still under enemy fire, he 
repaired the external radio equipCAPT. JOSEPH A. BECK
. . . for gallantry under fire . . .
ment of his transport so that he 
could send a call for aid and also 
warn other carriers of the danger 
that awaited them. The remainder 
of the day was devoted to helping 
to care for the wounded and the dy
ing until adequate assistance could 
be secured.
After graduating from Tech, Cap
tain Beck enlisted in the air corps 
and won his wings in May, 1941. Be
fore going to North Africa, he was 
stationed in England for several 
months.
Captain Beck was a very popular 
and active figure on campus during 
Continued on page 5
Red Cross Mobile Unit 
To Be Here Next Week
The mobile unit of the Red Cross 
Blood Bank will be on the Tech 
campus from Monday, February 15, 
through Friday, February 19. So far, 
about 450 Techites have pledged to 
donate their blood. There is still 
time for those who have not yet 
handed in pledge cards, to do so, for 
the deadline for applications is Wed
nesday, February 11. Although the 
students have heard thjs plea many 
times before, the importante of con
tributing to the Blood Bank cannot 
be overemphasized; for those who 
give blood will have the satisfac
tion of knowing that they are giving 
much-needed aid to their country.
Students will be notified of the 
time of their appointments by Mrs. 
Dawes.
Freehof Speaks On 
Wartime Ethics
Dr. Solomon B. Freehof of the 
Rodef Shalom Temple will speak at 
todays chapel services at 11:30 in 
the Little Theater. The subject of 
his address is Ethical Ideals in War 
Time.
Dr. Freehof is the author of A 
Commentary on the Book of 
Psalms, Stormers of Heaven, and 
other books. He has lectured ex
tensively before colleges, universi
ties, and other groups. His most re
cent books are The Small Sanctu
ary and In the House of the Lord. 
For the past few years, he has con
ducted a Wednesday morning book 
review attended by a large group in 
Pittsburgh; in the current series 
concluded last week, he reviewed 
The Song of Bernadette, The 
Last Train From Berlin, The 
Seventh Cross, The Last Time I 
Saw Paris, and War and Peace.
He was born in London, England, 
August 8, 1892, the son of Isaac and 
Golda Freehof. After attending the 
London Board School in his early 
youth, he moved to Baltimore with 
his family at the age of twelve. 
Graduating from Baltimore City
Special Bulletin
Washington, Feb. 7.The War Man
power Commission announced today 
that Carnegie Tech and the University 
of Pittsburgh are among those Penn
sylvania colleges approved to train 
men and women as specialists for the 
War and Navy departments.
The commission emphasized, how
ever, that actual contracts will be let 
only to those institutions whose facili
ties are acceptable to the interested 
branch of the service.
Carnegie Tech has been approved 
to train engineers for both the War 
and Navy departments.
More details will be found on page 
two.
College as an honor student in 1908, 
he next attended the University of 
Cincinnati where he received the 
degree of Rabbi in 1915.
From 1915 to 1923, Dr. Freehof 
served on the Hebrew Union Col
lege Faculty as Professor in Rabbin
ics and Liturgy, except during the 
World War when he was First Lieu
tenant Chaplain of the U. S. Army 
in France.
In 1920, he was given the Doctor 
of Divinity degree at Hebrew Union 
College, and from 1924 to 1934 occu 
pied the pulpit of K. A. M. Temple, 
Chicago, the oldest Jewish congre
gation in the middle west. He is now 
Rabbi of Pittsburghs Rodef Shalom 
Temple, where he has been since 
August 1, 1934.
Todays program will include mu
sical selections by Miss Gertrude 
Zweig and Mr. James Hunter.

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 1943
ditosik. A'uttcluUi
Army And Navy Move In
It was announced in Washington, Sunday, by the War Manpower Com
mission that Carnegie Tech is among the colleges approved to train en
gineers for the War and Navy departments. In the same announcement 
was included notice that Carnegie had been approved by both the Army 
and Navy departments for the training of engineers.
The next step is, apparently, for the Army and the Navy to separately 
sign contracts with the Institute for the education of a given number of 
soldiers and sailors. At this writing, the Administration has not yet re
ceived either a contract or notice of a contract from the War or Navy de
partments. *
What happens after the contracts are signed is a matter of conjecture. 
Probably, after contracts are signed (we think this will take a week or 
two) it will be about a month before the first of the Army Specialist Corps 
and the Naval Trainees move in.
Carnegie To Board Servicemen
This period of thirty days grace will enable the Institute to set up fa
cilities for the housing and feeding of these servicemen. After the con
tracts are signed definite plans can be made, since it will be known just 
how many men will be moving in.
The courses that will be offered will depend on the Army and Navy. 
We want to emphasize, however, that Carnegie is not being taken over 
by the War or Navy departments and that the present courses will be com
pleted as scheduled this semester.
War Fever?
The following article appeared in the editorial column of the January 13 issue 
of The Hoya, undergraduate publication of the Georgetown University. We believe 
that this timely comment is needed as much at Carnegie Tech as it is at George
town or any other college.
With admirably calculated timeliness and a war-born nonchalance, 
the Government tossed a sputtering bombshell into the ranks of thousands 
of college students over the recent holidays. The news that the Enlisted 
Reserve Corps, whose members had lived a life of suspense and uncer
tainty, uncomfortably like that of a spider upon his thin-spun web, was 
facing early induction came as a damper to the celebrations of the vaca
tion in many homes. The realization had quite the opposite effect on many 
minds, however, when the first dismay over the knowledge that their 
peaceful civilian life was tottering on the bring of military oblivion had 
passed. To them it served as an added impetus to enjoy this, the last pro
longed holiday, with all the ration-curtailed resources at their command.
That this attitude was inevitable and entirely commendable is not de
nied here. It is maintained, however, that such a position, concentrating 
only upon that which lies a few months off, with utter disregard for the 
path immediately before one, does seem like near-sighted futility.
Many students returning to college unfortunately brought back with 
them this attitude of complete defeatism. The falsity of this stand is ob
vious. It seems to us that the imminence of the Army Reservists induc
tion into the service, instead of retarding, rather should accelerate and in
vigorate the college youths desire for knowledge. After all, when a man 
realizes that last opportunity for gaining the thing he values so much, has 
striven so hard and long to achieve, is slipping through his fingers, the in
telligent reaction would appear to be a tighter grip than ever upon the 
means to that end.
We should all here resolve that, since the fruit of a liberal education is 
not learning but the capacity and desire to learn, not knowledge but power, 
that since it is this power, both of mind and spirit that is to win this war 
and to establish and maintain that peaceful, productive post-war world 
now in construction, that it is our duty now to grind ourselves with the 
weapons which will give us that power. It is now and only now that we 
can prepare ourselves to face squarely and honestly and resolutely the 
problems which will beset us during and after this war. Let us not, then 
throw down in disdain what is offered to us in beneficent assistance.
Hoya, Georgetown U.
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the 
staff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not 
to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
36.1 wmtStMR 8_1C_
The Carnegie Tartan
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh, Pa.
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2600 PHONE SCHENLEY 4557
IWPMStNTED ro NATIONAL ADVERTISING BYNational Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative 
The Carngit Vol. NlI mipf. N. m. 
CHICAGO  Boston  Los Angeles  SA Facisco
After Office Hours Call
Editor-in-Chief............................SC. 9887
Business Manager.......................BR. 4759
Entered as seconfl-ciass matter In the Pittsburgh Post Office nnder the Act of March 3, 1879. 
Published weekly daring school year, except holidays and examination periods.Subscription Price $1.10 per year.
Editor-in-Chief.............................................................................................Melvin H. Snyder, Jr.
Business Manager ............................................................................................... Wilbur Thomas
Managing Editor....................................................................................................... Jeanne King
Circulation Manager.........................................................................................Chester Feinberg
ISSUE EDITORS ^
Managing Editor .............................................................................................................Walt Darby
News Editor.....................................................................................................................Elaine Levin
Feature Editor.................................................... .......................................................T. J. Harmany
Sports Editor................................................................................................................ Don French
Headline Editor.......................................................................................................Gerry Edelson
Charge of Rewrite...........................................................................................................Ed Goldstein
Copy Editors............................................................Helena Aronson, Dave Neuss, Louisa Saul
Stuff Photographers.........................................................................................Lew Klein, Ed Croop
Sports Staff: Mike Capobianco John Lindberg Bill Beamer Stu Lee Bill Ferguson
Business Staff: Martha Wagman, Jerry Jacobs, Jay Levxnthal, Lawrence Schutzer.
Ginny Wright, Music 43, started 
her college career as a Pre-Med stu
dent at Albright, but found that her 
studies- took too much time from 
leading the glee club and a local 
orchestra. The results? Why, of 
course; she left the school! When 
she registered with the Music De
partment here at Carnegie, (to get 
degrees in both Music Education 
and Piano) she was only continuing 
a musical career which she had 
started at the age of six. We called 
her last week, and arranged for an 
interview with her at the Tartan of
fice.
As we entered the office, we 
caught a glimpse of Ginny in her 
true element. She was sitting on 
a table with about six people 
around her. To our great amaze
ment, we found that she was carry
ing six different conversations! As 
she spoke, her voice tripped and 
skidded from one register to the 
other; she used wild gestures, toss
ed her head about, kicked her legs, 
in fact, she did everything but run 
a 440-yard dash!
Louie, our photographer, came in 
to see us after he had taken Ginnys 
picture. There was fire in his eyes 
and we instantly formed a mental 
picture of Ginny walking on his 
flash bulbs, or up-setting his tripod. 
He sat down wearily and wiped the 
sweat from his forehead; What a 
woman! he moaned. After a halfhour interview, we found that her 
hobby was collecting miniature pi
anos. Her list of activities included 
the Presidency of C. W. C. A., S. 
A. I. and membership in the Beetles
MISS GINNY WRIGHT
. . . she exuberates . . .
(who claim her to be their cham
pion Beanery-bridge player) and 
about seven other organizations.
To say the least, shes exuberant. 
Typical conversation: Yes, some
day Id like to teach piano to school 
children, wait, no, I just dont know 
what I want to do; I have nine mini
ature pianos now; I certainly would 
like to see regular chapels; no 
thanks, I dont smoke; had the most 
adorable costume for a Mortar 
Board initiation last year; I was 
Mammy Yokum; I used to write 
poetry; and love playing bridge; you 
know, three of my tiny pianos act
ually play . . .We give up! When 
last seen she was heading west; 
talking about directing the Beetles 
and Delts in last years Sing and 
Swingwe think!
Critics Corner - - - - "moor born*
We find it difficult to be enthusi
astic about Moor Born, the Drama 
Departments latest presentation. It 
is one of those historical biographies 
which every literary man feels com
pelled to write at one time or an
other. In this instance, however, 
we feel that the author would have 
been more successful if he had told 
his story in novel form, rather than 
tried to inflict it on the theater. The 
dramatic spark, if it ever existed, 
was dimmed considerably in the 
writing, and, consequently, the 
mood suffered from lack of defini
tion. The lines ricocheted from sul
len taciturnity to violent self-exposition, from morose brooding to 
near-hysteria, and such comedy asmight have glittered in this murky 
setting was obscured behind a fog 
of Yorkshire burrs.
There is no doubt that the play 
did sustain a moodthe terrifying 
fascination of the moors for those 
who are Moor Born, but we miss
ed the crawling moments, the un
spoken thoughts, the stifflled emo
tions, which, though they may have 
been there in embryo, were, unfor
tunately, stillborn. Does all this 
come under the heading of tempo? 
If so, would the whole work not have 
been more powerful if the pace had 
been slowed down, to subtly drain 
life from the characters. But to di
rect the play to such an end would 
have left the audience exhausted, so
such a possibility is better left un
explored.
In the cast, Miss Nosichs Emily, 
restrained and sensitive, was the 
most intelligent and plausible char
acter. She gave her part more than 
it demanded, and we are almost in
clined to think that she understood 
Emily better than the author. Miss 
Sandersons Charlotte was excel
lent also, though she appeared, at 
times, too mercenary and ambitious, 
and a bit too sharp-tongued for a 
level-headed sister. Miss Rosoff was 
good as Ann, but appallingly imma
ture. Mr. Schmitts Bramwell was 
sharply drawn to a point of harsh 
clarity which could only be called 
stereoscopic. Mr. Smith, out of the 
juvenile class for the first time, was 
good as the failing Mr. Bronte, 
though he lacked the faded glory of 
a no-longer keen mind. Speaking of 
the other three characters brings up 
an old complaint; we know that cer
tain regions of England have their 
own individual patois, a strange gut
tural gibberish; but must the direc
tor be quite so literal? Is there no 
concession to be made to the audi
ence? What little comedy there 
may have been in Moor Born was 
killed by a too-positive adherence to 
the dialect of the region.
Moor Born may have been a 
good choice from the actors point 
of view, but it remains, from our 
side of the curtain, a rath^y taste
less morsel.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 1943THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
  Dots 'N' Dashes  
by Dot Greiner
Paul V. McNutt isnt the only one whos having trouble with the man
power problem, declare Margaret Morrison and Fine Arts gals, salty cir
cles oozing from their orbs. . What with Casanova in the army fighting 
this war for his Uncle Sam, Lillian Lover now knows what the song writer 
had in mind when he composed Im Saving Myself for Bill (Bill must 
have a priority rating). As any fool knows, particularly Lillian Lover, 
saving oneself can become a very dull and uninteresting pastime. But 
whgtt to dowhat to do? It just aint fittin and proper that a lovely gal in 
the flower of her youth should be forced to the canary shop and premature 
spinsterhood. Surely shes entitled to one or two more years of gaiety.
But our problem is, Dr. Drooper, just how do we go about enjoying 
ourselves and still remain true to our first love? Answer? (this is gonna 
be good). Lets have some rip-roaring old get-togethers a la victrola and 
lemonadeif lemons dont come from Japan. The Carnegie Union offers 
adequate facilities for staging periodic parties for stag men and lone 
wimminconventional ideas to be given the axe as suchat which 
bridge, bull sessions, dancing, and refreshments could be included.
How about that, some of you fellows and girls? Perhaps if some 
pioneering soul would be willing to stick his neck out in a first attempt, 
others would follow suit. From where we sit ( atop an ash-can), we think 
its worth a try.
Lets talk seriously. By now, everyone on campus has heard tell of 
the Students War Activities Council (S. W. A. C.s), and if they havent, 
theyre hearing now. It seems that Carnegie Techs war activities have 
been immensely lacking up to this point, and that in local circles we are 
being thought of somewhat as the indifferent Techites. Of course, there 
are some who will argue that it isnt an easy task to study earnestly and 
to indulge in war activities at the same time. To the cold and calculat
ing seeker of knowledge, war is often synonomuos with inconvience. 
Granted that we are already overburdened with work, that days of rid
ing to school in a car or zipping off in a dates convertible for an evening 
of dining and dancing are but fond memories of the past. Still there is no 
reason why the college student cannot accept these inconveniences for 
the time being and get in there and fight against the forces that are taking 
our luxuries and time away from us.
We must accept new responsibilities, attempt jobs weve never done 
before, and keep up morale on the home front. After all, were part of a 
privileged few here at Techothers less fortunate are already in the serv
ice and are not having the opportunity of continuing in their civilian ca
pacity. On our shoulders, then, falls the task of furthering all war ac
tivity campaigns introduced on this campus; its the least we can do.
At present only three hundred of the six hundred required students 
have signed up to donate their blood to the Red Cross Mobile Unit when it 
comes to campus. We can do better than that! Anyone who has donated 
blood will testify that the process is a painless one and will not take the 
rosy glow from your cheeks. Better we should give a pint of blood will
ingly, than a gallon under pressure later. With this bloody thought, we 
leave you.
The opinions and suggestions expressed and offered in this column 
belong strictly to you-know-whom. The line forms to the right for all you 
knife-throwers. And if want to throw a knife, this reporter cordially in
vites you to do so.
Physicist Experiments 
With Infra-red Light
In the obscurity of Engineering 
Hall a physicst, Abner Wollan, is 
conducting research on infra-red 
light. Mr. Wollan was graduated 
from Concordia College, Moorhead, 
Minnesota. In connection with these 
experiments, he is studying for his 
doctors degree.
Surrounded sNby complicated-looking apparatus in the molecular 
physics laboratories of Engineering 
Hall, he is experimenting on the 
measurement of the absorption of 
infra-red rays as they pass through 
gases and solids. He began this 
work in collaboration with Dr. C. E.
Intramural Bowling 
xowmr/Q*
University Recreation
On Craig Off Forbes
Leberknight, ex-Assistant Professor 
of Physics, who left Tech to aid in 
defense work. Mr. Wollan is now 
carrying on the research begun by 
Dr. Leberknight. The applications 
of the study of infra-red spectra and 
absorption bands provide a means 
by which calculations may be made 
of molecular and atomic structures 
of various gases together with their 
moments of inertia. The molecular 
structure or organic compounds is 
particularly important at this time 
because of its use in finding new 
synthetic rubber compounds.
The building of the equipment 
now in use was supervised by Dr. 
Leberknight. He also designed and 
built the first set used in connection 
with this work.
HOTEL WEBSTER 
HALL
Available For
PRIVATE PARTIES 
BANQUETS 
SWIMMING PARTIES
MAyflower 7700 
Fifth near Mellon Institute
Dr. Teare Develops 
New Bimetal Wire
Dr. B. R. Teare, Jr., professor of 
Electrical Engineering, with the as
sistance of Josephine R. Web, Buhl 
research assistant in Electrical En
gineering and several students asso
ciated with the Department, has de
veloped several equations of curves 
which represent the graph of elec
trical resistance vs. frequency. This 
graph gives much needed informa
tion about the comparison of three 
types of wire: plain, tubular, and 
the latest steel covered copper type 
developed by Dr. Teare.
Three years of intense work on 
the part of the above mentioned par
ties were put into this discovery. 
The graph shows that the newly dis
covered wire, after a small potential 
has been reached, soon proves its 
superiority to its two opponents. 
This discovery consists of a steel 
wire covered by a copper skin. It is 
not, however, limited to steel; other 
metals may be used to equal ad
vantage. Steel is given as the base 
simply because it was most used in 
the experiments here at Tech.
High tenacity heads the list of its 
advantages. Were it not for the low 
tenacity of copper wire it would be 
unnecessary to make telephone and 
power lines so thick and bulky.
With the new wire endless 
amounts of copper can be saved and 
a fewer number of poles will be 
needed since the space between 
them can be vastly increased. This 
discovery has received the respect
ful attention of Westinghouse, the 
A. I. E. E., and the scientific world 
in general.
Pgh. Symphony Orchestra 
In Starting Concert Tour
Next week  for the first time 
since the days when Victor Herbert 
and Emil Paur were conductors 
the Pittsburgh Symphony Orches
tra will go on tour under the baton 
of Fritz Reiner. They will visit Syr
acuse, New York, and Colgate Uni
versityin the order mentioned.
When the orchestra returns on 
February 14,they will play a series 
of concerts in four of Pittsburghs 
high schools, namely Peabody, Cen
tral Catholic, Fifth Avenue, and 
South High School. The next pair 
of regular concerts will take place 
at Syria Mosque on Friday evening, 
February 26, and Sunday afternon, 
February 28.
ON THE RECORD
Today
12:30, Room 157, Arts, Mr. Charles 
A. H. Pearson will supervise this 
phonograph recital:
Excerpts from Operas........Wagner
Thursday 
12:30, Room 157r A rts, Dr. Frederick 
Dorian will be in charge of this 
production:
String Quartet..................Beethoven
OTUED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY 
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY, PITTSBURGH, PA.

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 1943
Junior Prom...
Continued from page 1 
Jim Balmer and his publicity 
poster gang produced all of the pic
torial propaganda. They of the 
adroit paint brushes are Fanny Carlock, Bill Buchler, and Herb Hart
man. Art North and Elliot Twery 
did the cartoons in the Beanery.
Note to me on that busy day: 
Dont eat lunch, you have to see Jim 
Braden. So this is the line I gobbled 
instead of my usual hamburger: 
Stress the Valentine theme. And 
tell them that the Delta Skulls have 
everything under control. No. May
be you shouldnt do that. I wouldnt 
want them to get the idea that its 
the Juniors private dance.
At six oclock I had lupper which 
is a combination of lunch and sup
per. But I didnt mindmuch. I 
had the lowdown on J. P. And now 
to the royal polls. Long live the 
Queen of Hearts!
Alpha Chi Alpha Merges 
With Pi Delta Epsilon
This semester will witness the re
birth of an established honorary fra
ternity, Pi Delta Epsilon, to be com
posed of both men and women stu
dents.
In 1926 Pi Delta Epsilon, national 
mens journalistic honorary, found
ed a chapter on Carnegie Tech cam
pus. Realizing the need for a jour
nalistic honorary for women, Pi D.
E. was responsible for the formation 
of Theta Chapter of Alpha Chi Al
pha. Since that time the two chap
ters have been functioning actively, 
independent of each other.
The Grand Council, national gov
erning body of Pi Delta Epsilon, 
passed a resolution in 1936 which 
converted that organization into a 
coeducational fraternity.
Feeling that Carnegie campus is 
not large enough to warrant the ex
istence of two such organizations, 
the members of Alpha Chi Alpha 
and Pi Delta Epsilon have decided 
to merge and become a single co
educational journalistic fraternity.
... On The Campus ...
On the Campus is conducted for the 
benefit of the entire Tech student body. 
If you have any notices for the column, 
just type them up and drop in Tech P. O. 
Box 409 by Friday noon of the week be
fore publication.
Play tickets on the loose!
Last Saturday Moor Born open
ed a full week run closing Febru
ary 13th. Tickets are still available 
in Administration. Be sure and see 
the special review in this issue. Its 
a good play and fo free!
SWAC!
Student War Activities Council 
meets this afternoon in Room 108, 
Arts at 4:30. Short and to the point?
Local Boys Make Good
Scarab, the national professional 
Architectural Fraternity has called 
the following students: Knute Hen
ning, a graduate student from the 
University of North Dakota and act
ing head of North Dakotas Archi
tectural Department; Robert Hinkel, 
45; John Paul Shaffer, 44; Louis 
Valentour, 45; and Donald Zier, 45, 
who has recently been drafted. Now 
youre cooking boys!
The goods on the gobs!
The meeting of the Navy Vs will 
be held at 7:30 on Wednesday, Feb
ruary 10. The officers have been 
chosen and plans are underway for 
programs of future meetings. Ad
dresses by Naval officers are a defin
ite possibility. Those invited to the 
meeting are all members of any 
Naval V program and all those who 
intend to join the Naval Reserve.
E. R. C. Reopens!
The Military Department receiv
ed a notice last week that those col
lege students between the age of 
seventeen and eighteen can now en
list in the Army Reserve Corps. 
Those enlisting must have the con
sent of their parents, and they may 
join either the Enlisted Reserve 
Corps (general) or the Air Corps 
Reserve. These seventeen year olds 
will not be called to active duty un
til the six months period following 
their eighteenth birthday. Eligible 
students who are interested may 
call at the Military Office for addi
tional information.
Tech Faculty Members 
Organize To Discuss 
Current War Problems
Following in the line of increas
ed war activity on the campus, the 
War Adaptations Committee of the 
Social Relations Department has an
nounced the formation of an inform
al faculty discussion group. Creat
ed after suggestions from several 
faculty members that arrangements 
be made for informal group discus
sions of problems relating to war 
and postwar problems, the discus
sion group held its first scheduled 
meeting last Thursday, February 4. 
Through cooperation with the 
American Unity Committee of the 
C. I. T. War Committee arrange
ments have been made for schedul
ing several similar meetings during 
the current semester.
Dr. Eleanor Bisbee, recently an 
Instructor of Philosophy of the 
American College at Instanbul, Tur
key, presented an informative talk 
on The War in the Near East, 
which was followed by questions 
and discussion by the faculty mem
bers of various departments. It is 
hoped that Dr. Bisbee will be se
cured to lecture at the student as
sembly on March 2, 1943.
Music Recital To Be Given 
In Fine Arts Exhibition Hall
The Exhibition Hall of the Arts 
Building will be the site of the fol
lowing recital to be given by stu
dents of the Music Department this 
Sunday evening at 8:15 p. m.:
1. Trio in D Minor . .Mendelssohn
Allegro 
Lucy Borrelli, Piano 
Marjorie Hill, Violin 
Jane Kalbfus, Cello
2. Nocturne in D flat, Op. 27,
No. 2.............................Chopin
Polonaise in A flat, Op.
53 ...................................Chopin
Lawrence Mellon
3. Violin Concerto in A
major ........................... Mozart
Allegro aperto 
Adagio
Gertrude Zweig
4. Symphonic Variations, Op.
13 ........................... Schumann
Robert Drumni
The accompanist will be James 
Hunter.
DONT WASTE
telephone 
CALLS I
The weight of war on telephone lines grows 
heavier every day. We cant build new 
lines to carry the loads because materials 
have been "drafted to produce the tools 
of war. Weve got to make the most of 
the telephone equipment we now have.
Important war calls of the government, 
the armed forces and war industries must 
go through promptly.
You can help us speed war calls:
^ Make only the most necessary calls.
I^Keep ALL calls brief!
^ Whenever possible, call by number.
^ Dont call the busy war centers if
you can avoid it.
THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY 
OF PENNSYLVANIA
Fort Pitt is the Place 
to Rent
TYPEWRITERS
ALL
MAKES
$3.00 per 
Month
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
Let's go to
ISALY'S
MILK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM CONES
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Allies

---------------------------------------------------

ITS CAMELS FDR. 
ME-THEV'VE GOT 
WHAT IT TAKES!
YOU BET! 
THEyfeE PLENTY
.MILD...
AND PACKED 
WITH FLAVOR 
IN THE ARMY 
BOMBER SQUADRONS
say: th:e
LAYING THE EGGS" fr *^ingthe bombs
"BROWNED OFF" for bored
"PIECE OF CAKE
//
for an easy job
"CAMEL"for the Army mans favorite cigarette
F/Rsr //V THE SERV/CE
With men in the Army, Navy, Marines,
 and Coast Guard, the favorite cigarette * JL 
is Camel. (Based on actual sales records 
in Post Exchanges and Canteens.)
.... .........."  1 ... -UUiljMg
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Winston-Salem. North Carolina 
The T-Zone"
where cigarettes are 
judged
The "T-ZONE"Taste and Throat
 is the proving ground for ciga
rettes. Only your taste and throat can decide which 
cigarette tastes best to you... and how it affects your 
throat. For your taste and throat are absolutely indi
vidual to you. Based on the experience of millions 
of smokers, we believe Camels will suit your 
"T-ZONE" to a "T." Prove it for yourself!
cm&
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 1943 THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
ehuuH *7<4e SU&utcaA&i
Girls Study Behind The Scenes 
In Kaufmannes Department Store
Have you ever wondered what 
goes on behind the scenes in a de
partment store; who are involved in 
the operation of a large store, be
sides the salespeople? This is what 
the senior Costume Ecs study in co
operation with Kaufmanns Depart
ment Store. Our fashion experts 
are not interested in fashion and 
styles alone. They also want to 
know how to operate a successful 
business establishment. And their 
course in store service education 
gives them an idea of what it is 
all about.
One day a week, Tuesday or Wed
nesday, the girls are at Kaufmanns 
studying the functions of the various 
departnifents, such as adjustments, 
personnel, sales training, and fash
ion correlating. In the adjusting de
partment they learn how complaints 
and errors are taken care of and 
how lost merchandise, is traced. 
Then in the personnel department
they learn about the hiring of em
ployees and sometimes they call the 
extras to come in for work.
For three weeks the girls have a 
chance to work behind the service 
desks where they give out credit 
slips and merchandise checks. They 
also attend sales training where they 
see how salespeople are trained. 
Then, in line with their fashion 
training, they accompany Miss 
Reamer, the stores fashion cor
relator, and learn how accessories 
are correctly assembled to provide 
the best background for clothes dis
plays.
At the end of the course the stu
dents take a test given by the Re
tail Training Bureau. Although this 
course in store service education is 
not as intensive as the course given 
by Retail Training Bureaus in vari
ous schools, it does tend to give the 
Costume Ecs some idea as to how 
a department store operates.
Dr. J. Vick OBriens 
Romany Road Opens 
Run Tomorrow Night
The operetta Romany Road, 
written by Dr. J. Vick OBrien, 
head of the Department of Music, 
will have its premiere at Mount 
Mercy tomorrow, Thursday, and 
Friday, at 8:30 p. m.
Dr. OBrien is a native Pitts
burgher and received his early 
training from prominent musicians 
in his home townAdolph Foerster, 
Luigi von Kunits, and Joseph Otten. 
With this start and two years spent 
in the University of Notre Dame, he 
went abroad to prepare for his life 
work. In the ten years from 1902 
to 1912, he lived in Berlin where he 
studied at the Hochschule with such 
masters as Humperdinck and Carl 
Theil and privately with Friedrich 
Koch and Jose Vianna DaMotta.
In 1912, he was appointed Head of 
the Department of Music at Car
negie Institute of Technology, a po
sition which he still retains. In 1926- 
1927, he was granted a years leave 
of absence for further study in 
Europe. He spent a good part of 
this time in Berlin working under 
the noted composer, Paul Juon, with 
whom he collaborated in writing a
harmony text-book.
In the spring of 1928, the honorary 
degree of Doctor of Music was con
ferred upon him by Duqueshe Uni
versity.
His compositions include a sym
phony, which he calls Duskward, 
incidental and ballet music for 
Chaplet of Pan, three operas, In 
Olde Virginia, Hour Before 
Dawn, and Roses of Mercatel, 
and about fifty songs outstanding 
of which are The Stirrup Cup and 
I Shot an Arrow.
The operetta, Romany Road, is 
being presented by the Mount 
Mercy Glee Club and the Tech 
Mens Glee Club.
Beck Receives D. S. C.
Continued from page 1 
his school years here. In his last 
year of school, he received the hon
or of being appointed Cadet Colonel 
of the R. O. T. C., and was also 
chairman of the Military Ball for 
that year as well as being VicePresident of Scabbard and Blade. 
He was a member of Delta Tau Del
ta, Alpha Phi Omega, Scotch and 
Soda, and Tri-Publications, and was 
the head cheerleader during his sen
ior year. Captain Beck also served 
as advertising manager on the Tech
nical.

---------------------------------------------------

TH CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 1943
Skibos Face Undefeated Allegheny 
Tonight; Walloped By Prexies, 66 to 28SKEBO SPORTLIGHT
Lets Have Some Cheering
By Don French, Sports Editor n
At every basketball game A1 Minetti appears at the half and leads 
the crowd in his rousing cheer, the Institute, but must we confine it to 
one cheer during the half? Certainly the students want to cheer as is evi
denced by the small-group cheers that emanate from the various sections 
of the grandstand.
What has kept our cheerleaders in hiding for so many years when the 
basketball season is in progress? It seems mighty disgraceful that most 
high schools have many cheerleaders at every basketball game yet Car
negie Tech has to rely on an alumnus of fourteen years to lead us one mid
game cheer.
As far as getting a nucleus to begin with, it seems there are about 
fifty men who are so interested that, besides cheering at the home games, 
they usually take the shorter trips with the team and provide the much 
needed cheering at our contests away from home.
Using this group as a nucleus, certainly our cheerleaders could work 
out some cheers. (Our usual ones wouldnt work too well at the basket
ball games). With a practice session these few cheerers could learn the 
yells and then present them at the basketball game this Saturday.
Girl Cheerleaders?
There seems to be no real reason why there shouldnt be girl cheer
leaders at the games other than the fact that uniforms would have to be 
purchased for them. This might be just the reviver needed for our wan
ing cheerleaders. If this new addition would create some real cheering it 
might be well worth the initial cost of a few uniforms.
... Council Minutes . ..
By Mike Capobianco
After absorbing their worst defeat 
in two years at the hands of the 
W. & J. Prexies by a 66-28 count, the 
hungry Tartans will take to the 
court tonight against the undefeated 
Alligators from Allegheny Col
lege.
The Gators, coached by Bob Garback, former big league ball play
er, have won seven straight matches 
and will face the Skibos as odds-onHugh Tiger Smith, varsity flash
favorite. Big Guns for the visitors 
is Stretch Present, lank 6 4 ball 
hawk.
Allegheny uses the old type or
thodox 2-3 zone defense with a com
bination fast-break and screen-set 
plays on the offense. The Gators 
unblemished record places them 
among the better teams in this dis
trict. Despite thi s good showing 
and their win over Westminster, the 
gang from Meadville shouldnt be 
too hard a nut for the Skibos to 
crack.
Tech will be weakened by the loss 
of Bob DeBortoli, rugged mainstay, 
who is nursing a badly twisted 
ankle and tom leg ligaments suf
fered in practice. Bob will be out 
of action this week and hopes to be
INFORMAL DANCING
Every FRIDAY and 
SATURDAY NIGHT
Billy Hinds Music 
$1 per person (plus tax)
See us about your next party
HOTEL SCHENLEY
ready to do battle against Pitt next 
Tuesday. With DeBort, out of the 
lineup, Coach Maxie will start Capt. 
Dave Brinn, Frank Showman, 
George Meyer, Hugh Smith, and 
George Marck who has just recov
ed from an infected throat. In the 
replacement slot will be Tommy 
Culbertson and freshman Ralph 
Carnahan, who has been the out
standing player on Buzzy Green
bergs JayVee team. His steady play 
and backboard fight have earned 
him a permanent berth on the var
sity.
Tech Drops One To W. & J.
In losing to the torrid Prexies at 
W. & J. last week, the Tartans hit 
their seasons low scoring mark of 
28 points to the oppositions 66. The 
winners were really hot; flipping 
in rebounds, dribble-ins and set 
shots from the corners. With Forquer and Zellar scoring at will, the 
Prexies totaled 34 to Techs 17 at 
half time. After intermission, Konyha and Hartman found the range 
and moved the count up to 48-21 for 
the third stanza.
The outcome was evident, Tech 
was disorganized and badly beaten; 
so Maxie put Carnahan, Pakula and 
Harry Smith into their first varsity 
game. These boys with Billie Cogs
well and Showman worked smooth
ly in the dying minutes in pick
ing up Techs last seven points, 
while the home team coasted down 
hill to their 66 total.
It was just one of those nights 
when W. & J. was exceptionally hot, 
actually converting more than fifty 
per cent of their tries. They stop
ped Tech at every turn; but the 
Tartans still fought on despite their 
shortcomings and charged the giants 
for a total of 26 personal fouls. The 
team stuck to-gether till the last, but 
to no avail as the Prexies manipu
lated the nets in spectacular style.
It has been announced definitely 
that freshman Jack Sherman, sub 
varsity guard from Central Catholic, 
has received his greetings from 
his local board and will depart to 
the army on the 20th. Sherman is 
a smooth ball player and a good set 
shot artist, his loss will be felt in 
the shock troops. Good Luck, John
ny!
This Saturday the Tartans will 
face the St. Vincent cagers from Latrobe in the Skibo gym at 8 oclock.
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
The meeting was called to order at 7:15 
p. m., February 2, 1943.
Absent: Messrs. Goldberger, Sher,
Lavie, Martin, and Dolan.
COMMITTEE REPORTS 
Special Committee
Miss Zonge reported that the Kiltie 
Band-Glee Club records had been put 
on sale and that they were selling very 
well. They will be on sale in the Union 
Tuesday and Thursday afternoons from
2 to 4:30.
Budget
Mr. Shewitz moved that the Delta Skull 
budget for Junior Prom be accepted.
Motion carried.
Mr. Shewitz moved that the budget 
from the Debating Union be approved.
Motion carried.
Mr. Shewitz moved that the revised 
Student Council budget be approved.
Motion carried.
Publications
Mr. Rose reported that four members 
of the TARTAN staff were refused the 
privilege of holding both a C. I. T. schol
arship and a TARTAN scholarship, 
whereas their understanding had been 
that they would receive these scholar
ships. He moved that Student Council 
approve their appeal to the Financial Aid 
Committee that these four members of the 
TARTAN staff be permitted to obtain 
their TARTAN scholarships as well as 
their C. I. T. scholarships.
Motion carried.
Mr. Reisacher suggested that the secre
tary of Student Council write a letter to 
the Financial Aid Committee telling them 
that Council is definitely behind the four 
members of the TARTAN staff.
Mr. Rose reported that the appoint
ments of Mr. Reisacher of the Scottie 
were approved by the Publications Com
mittee as voted on by Council last week. 
He moved that this stipulation be attached 
to the motion: that $70.40 be transferred 
from the Business Staff to the Editorial 
Staff, this sum being divided equally be
tween the Associate Editor and the Womens Editor, the balance to be divided 
equally between the three members of 
the Business Staff.
Motion carried.
Mr. Wolff moved that the petition from 
Mens Dormitory Council and Citcom 
Clan to hold a dance in Thistle Hall on 
Saturday, February 20, from 9 to 1, with 
these organizations assuming complete 
responsibility for all profits and losses, 
be approved.
Since there is a question as to whether 
or not this date is open, the motion was 
tabled until next week.
Mr. Wolff moved that the petition from 
the Omicron Delta Kappa Fraternity for 
the privilege of conducting the annual 
spring carnival be approved.
Mr. Shewitz moved to amend this mo
tion to include the stipulation that a bud
get be handed in containing provision for 
an account in Student Council, the amount 
in this account to be decided later.
Motion carried.
The amended motion was voted on.
Motion carried.
Mr. Wolff presented a petition from In
terfraternity Council for permission to 
reschedule Sing and Swing from March 
27 to March 20. Since there is already a 
dance scheduled for that date, the peti
tion was rejected without vote.
Points and Keys
Mr. Whiteside reported that a count 
had been taken of the keys and that let
ters will soon be sent to th various or
ganizations requesting lists of those eligi
ble for keys.
NEW BUSINESS
Mr. Shewitz moved that Council accept 
the petition from the Delta Skull Society 
to run the all-school election for the Ju
nior Prom Queen, assuming all the re
sponsibility incurred therein. The elec
tions chairman from Council will be pres
ent at the counting of the ballots.
Motion carried.
Adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
ELIZABETH BEALL, 
Secretary.RODGERS
DAIRY STORES
MILK SHAKES
Made from Pure Whole Milk for 
only 10c
We Do Not Use Skim Milk.

NEAREST STORES LOCATED
------AT-------
3905 FORBES STREET
Near Bouquet Street
4619 CENTER AVENUE 
Near Craig Street
Dont Forget HER on February 14,
VALENTINES DA Y
We Feature:
WHITMANS, REYMERS, GOBELINS 
CHOCOLATES
WOODLAWN PHARMACY
Let us mail or deliver your valentine

---------------------------------------------------

THE 1,500,000 
RAILROAD WORKERS 
OF AMERICA
all work together. They 
keep the trains rolling and 
see that troops, supplies 
and essential traffic get the 
right of way.
THE CIGARETTE THAT GIVES 
SMOKERS WHAT THEY WANT
Chesterfields 
give you a MILDER 
BETTER TASTE
There are two good reasons why 
Chesterfield gives smokers everything 
they want in a cigarette. 
first. Chesterfields are made of the world's 
best cigarette tobaccos. 
second, Chesterfield blends these choice 
tobaccos in the one right combination to 
bring out the best smoking qualities of 
each tobacco.
Thats why Chesterfields deliver 
the goods ... their MILDNESS and 
Connot iueno really Satisfy.
Copyright 1943, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 1943 THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
 Bowling and Volley Ball 
Seasons Get Underway
Bowling season got underway 
with a strike last Saturday when 
sixteen intramural teams matched 
skill on the smooth lanes of the Uni
versity Bowling Alleys at Craig and 
Forbes Street.
Two leagues composed of Frater
nity, Citcom and Dorm teams offer 
enough competition for 120 men. All 
pre-season favorites did right by 
their followers as Citcom A and the 
Delts won their respective matches 
by a 3 to 0 score in League 2, while 
the Beta Sigma Rho boys and Cit
com B came out on the long end of
2 to 1 and 3 to 0 scores in their en
gagements in League 1.
An aroused Beta team rolled the 
highest score of the day, 686, but it 
was not enough as a more steady 
team from McGill beat them 2 to 1. 
The highest individual scorer was 
Helnen, a Citcom A boy, who roll
ed 140, 152, and 126 in his three 
games.
Other scores were: PKA-3, Boss0; TX-2, SAE-1; DU-3, Scobell 0.
The volleyball season is under 
way with Citcom A again leading 
the pack. Eighteen teams are active 
and are divided into two leagues. At 
the present it looks as if the Kappa 
Sigs and the PiKAs will fight for 
the right to meet Citcom A for the 
school championship. Anyone who 
is interested in watching this fast 
game can attend it almost any night 
at the Mens and Womens Gyms.
Titans Take Tartans, 
Pool Record Shattered
Carnegie Techs swimming team 
saw its most powerful opponent of 
the season last Wednesday when 
Westminster amassed a total of 55 
points to 20 for the Skibo mermen.
The Tech swimmers have done 
their best in five meets now and 
have lost every one due to various 
combinations of bad luck and su
perior opponents. They knew West
minsters record and hardly expect
ed to win that one but the next op
ponent which happens to be Case 
had better watch out.
Coughenaur, J. Schneid and Holt 
started the ball rolling for the visit
ors by taking the medley relay in 
the good time of 3:20.6. Hamel and 
Franko increased the lead by pick
ing up 8 points for first and second 
in the 220 yard free-style. Venzer 
acquired Techs first earned points 
by taking second in the 50 yard free
style, but Rush of Westminster was 
there ahead of him. Tech won the 
diving as usual due to the fine work 
of Chris Smith and we also got an
other point for third.
Eyman kept our team in the meet 
by winning the 150 yard backstroke 
and in the next event, Rush of the 
visitors won the 100 yard free-style 
in the sensational time of :57.4 J. 
Scheid, another Titan, broke the 
pool record in the 200 yard breast
stroke with a time of 2:33.7.
Risedorph, Swim Coach 
And Phys Ed Prof.
By Stu Lee
You have seen him about campus 
and those who take Phys. Ed. are 
familiar with Allen E. Risedorph. 
Coach as he is known to many, is 
mentor of the Tech swimming team, 
that bunch of guys who have all the 
tough breaks.
Coach came to Carnegie Tech in 
the fall of 1927 where he took on his 
first duties as an instructor in Phys
ical Education and coach of the var
sity and freshman swimming teams. 
Ever since that time, sixteen years 
to be exact he has formed and mold
ed many good squads.
Mr. Risedorph graduated from 
Springfield College in 1923 going to 
a small town in New York as Di
rector of Health and Physical Edu
cation. Then he spent a summer at 
New York University graduate 
school and after that took four 
years graduate work at Pitt obtain
ing his masters degree and becom
ing a member of Phi Delta Kappa, 
a national graduates honorary fra
ternity in Physical Education.
Perhapis many persons have won
dered how a technical institution 
like ours would have a course in 
Marriage Relations. It is interest
ing to note that Tech is the first 
technical school to have a course of 
this type. It all started four years 
ago when students frequently went 
to the Risedorphs home on campus 
and held discussions pertaining to 
their problems and problems of
COACH A. E. RISEDORPH
completing 16th year at Carnegie
marriage, with these discussions, 
Coach and Mrs. Risedorph felt that 
there was a need for a course in 
marriage relations to be open to all 
students on campus. In 1939 after 
the efforts of Mr. and Mrs. Rise
dorph and with the demands of the 
students, the course was instituted 
with a supervised reading library.
This article would not be com
plete without mention of Mrs. Rise
dorph, his very lovely wife. They 
met in Grand Rapids, Michigan in 
1923 where he was working as Su
pervisor of Swimming. Coming to 
Tech in 1927, they moved on cam
pus where they have lived since 
then.

---------------------------------------------------

8THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 19433The dTarueejie plaid
Introducing Phillip Carnvale 
As President Of Industries
PHILIIP CARNVALE
Fellow students, meet the Presi
dent of Industries, Phil Carnvale. 
Although this is Phils first year in 
Evening Student Council, he is far 
from being a stranger to those ac
tive on the campus. His activities 
were rewarded last year by his re
ceiving his first Evening Student 
Council Activities Award and by be
coming a member in the Nu Sigma 
Alpha Honorary Fraternity.
Phil is a native of Bristol, Penn
sylvania. He graduated from Bris
tol High School where he received 
athletic awards in football, basket
ball, and track. He also was the 
president of the Traffic Club and a 
member of Hi Y Student Council.
Pittsburgh became his new home 
in 1937. He enrolled at Tech the 
same year in the Machine Shop 
Practice Course of the College of 
Industries. On completion of the 
course at Tech he enrolled in the 
Defense Course on Machine Shop 
given at Taylor Allderdice. At 
present he is studying Welding at 
Tech.
The Union Switch & Signal Com
pany takes up most of his time as he 
is employed there as a machinist. He 
is married to a lovely girl, who an
swers to the name of Helen, and 
they reside in Wilkinsburg. His 
favorite sports are bowling and 
playing sandlot baseball. He swears 
he didnt know about the Election 
Party, and weve decided to accept 
his explanation since he promises 
that he and the missus will set aside 
any other plans and attend the next 
party so that we may get to know 
him better.
Sigma Delta Phi Frat. 
Enters Fourth Year
The Sigma Delta Phi Social Fra
ternity has just finished its third 
year of activity on the campus.
A large group of its membership 
has joined the armed forces of the 
country and these boys are scatter
ed over a wide territory. They have 
been missed greatly but their serv
ices to the country are very valua
ble.
A party is planned for Saturday 
evening, February 27 th at Carnegie 
Union.
Remember Washingtons 
Birthday Dance Feb. 20th
With Saturday, February 20th, 
only a little more than a week away, 
it is pleasing to hear that the final 
plans for the Washingtons Birthday 
Dance have been completed. The 
Social Committee has been working 
diligently to make this affair a huge 
success and it needs only the co
operation of all the students to 
make it so. Fortunately, for the bet
ter dancers, Jimmy Thompsons or
chestra was available and has been 
engaged. Jimmys orchestra is still 
relatively new to the campus, for its 
first appearance was made at the 
Christmas Dance and it went over 
in a big way.
The dance is to be held in Thistle 
Hall which will be decorated in 
keeping with the occasion. Patri
otism is to be the outstanding theme 
in order that we may celebrate this 
leaders birthday in the proper man
ner.
An invitation to attend this af
fair is extended to all evening, day, 
and defense students and their 
friends, at $1.10 per couple (tax in
cluded). We are also happy to an
nounce that any service men who 
may find it possible to attend will 
be admitted without charge and 
every effort will be made to make 
them welcome.
An extensive advertising pro
gram has been carried out for this 
affair, including the sending out of 
letters to friends and former stu
dents.
The transportation problem 
should not be very difficult as street 
cars and buses run regularly with
in a short distance of Thistle Hall.
This is the first dance of the se
mester and should be one of the best 
of the year. Everyone is urged to 
turn out, as we feel sure a fine time 
will be had by all.
Come out and meet your fellow 
students!
Earn Insignia Points!
Needless to say, many, students 
have been complaining about not 
knowing when, where, and how to 
get points toward an Insignia.
One of the best ways is to help 
when there is a dance. Before each 
affair many Social Committee meet
ings are held at Carnegie Union. 
This is where YOU can take an ac
tive plart in the formulating of 
plans. You can help to plan for these 
dances. You can become a mem
ber of the Social Committee by at
tending one of the meetings and 
showing your interest. You can 
get points by decorating for any 
dance. This work is done at two 
oclock of the afternoon preceeding 
the dance, and the clean-Up period 
is always at one oclock the follow
ing day.
This is a wonderful opportunity 
for you to become active in school 
affairs. We need workers; we need 
YOU.
Now it can be told! The Plaid 
Staff pitched in and held a party 
Saturday, January 30th. Reports 
about what happened have indeed 
been strange . . . The noise you 
heard was not Bob Aungsts Benny 
Goodman recordsno, it was just 
caused by having twenty-four peo
ple in a small apartment, but thanks 
a lot, Bob, the records were super 
. . . Despite his recent appendec
tomy, Bob Lennigan lifted seven 
men. No one has been Bob since, 
but we know he left the party in 
one piece . . . Steve Marcinizyn 
baffled the crowd with a mazagine 
trick. Bribes of any sort could not 
persuade Steve to tell his magic. 
The meanie! . . . Jim . Flaherty 
couldnt hide the love light in his 
eyes as he stroked HER golden 
tresses while dancing with a broom. 
Incidentally, Jim left February 1 
for the Air Corps in Florida. Best of 
luck to you Jimmy . . . The hit of 
the evening was Ed Macha who, 
while blind-folded, discovered he 
would rather kiss A1 Flanders than 
a girl. Yeah, and his favorite 
woman was there too ... It sure 
was SOME party, but no one show
ed up for clean-up on Sunday. 
Whats the matter kids, no points?
. . . Betty Bartlett, a new-comer 
to the campus, seems awfully 
blushy about a huge diamond she 
is wearing on the wrong finger. 
Whats the secret Betty? . . . Charles 
Henke now in Uncle Sams Air 
Corps writes that he is really crazy 
about it. He left the campus not 
long ago, but has been too busy 
to write sooner . . . Now here is 
really a piece of news . . . one of 
our Techites is waiting for her call 
to the WAACs. We are sorry to 
lose you Adrienne Drewiez, but 
know Uncle Sam needs you more 
. . . Wonder what secret power 
Mrs. Skinner possesses that makes 
all her studes so crazy about her. 
Me thinks she has them in a trance, 
for even the girls sigh when her 
name is mentioned . . . Tech re
cently lost another one of her favor
ites when Henry Ross joined the 
Service. We hope to hear from you 
now and then, Henry . . . Tech and 
station WJAS will both be losing 
a swell fellow when Murray Min
ster goes to the Army. He attended 
Tech when he was not busy being 
a radio announcer at WJAS. It wont 
be long now, Murray, good hunting!
. . . This weeks mystery! What 
Plaid worker spent all last Fri
day evening talking to a young man, 
and then became so confused that 
she went home (on his arm) leaving 
her galoshes and several other per
sonal effects behind her. My! My! 
The way things happen these days.
The Carnegie Plaid
Page edited by Evening 3cnool Students of Carnegie Institute of Technology. All views or opinions expressed in editorial column are not necessarily endorsed by the Editorial Board of the Day School staff.
EditorNancy E. Lewis News Editor 
Robert C. King 
Associate Editor of Engineering Joseph M. Rymar 
Associate Editor of Industries Mary Jo Weber 
Associate Editor of Fine Art*Marion Frost
StaffAlbert Flanders Mary Hensler John Hundertmark Edward A. Macha
S. W. Marcinizyn D. Pettigrew, Jr. Pearl Pettola Robert Poznanski
Share-a-Ride
The telephone operator, here at 
Tech, would like to have a ride 
home on Monday and Friday nights 
at 9:30. She lives on Bennett Street 
in Homewood and can be reached 
at MAyfiower 2600, the school tele
phone. Anyone living in that direc
tion who needs a passenger should 
get in touch with her.
Qditosih Voice.
To Very much disappointed
You came to just the right person 
with your gripe about the so-called 
Ruby in the Insignia you received 
because I, too, have strained my 
eyes trying to find it in my third 
year award. I wonder if the fellow 
who designed the pin (with Ruby) 
has ever thought of trying to smash 
an atom. Personally, I think he has 
succeeded and doesnt know it.
In case youre interested, I have 
just the solution to your worries. I 
think it would be a wonderful ges
ture for Council to have little signs 
printed, such as This is a Ruby, 
and perhaps they could have an ar
row pointing toward that invisible 
object, and issue these pins to all 
third year Insignia holders. We 
could then pin the sign under the 
key (when wearing same) and 
everyone we meet would know in 
an instant that theres more to it 
than meets the eye!
Seriously, though, I suppose it all 
adds up to This is Warshortages, 
you know.
Smokes for War Workers
Chesterfields new series oi adver
tisements pays tribute to the war 
workers of America, to all those 
who work for railroads, telephone, 
aviation and in any other industry 
whose efforts contribute to the great 
cause and struggle for victory.
Like the men in uniform, the du
ties of the war workers of America 
demand that they have clear, quick 
thinking minds and the milder, cool
er taste of Chesterfields help accom
plish this purpose.
One of the first advertisements in 
the new series, which appears in 
this issue, stresses the grand job that 
is being done by the railroaders of 
America in keeping the trains roll
ing and on schedule.
Each ad prominently displays a 
strong reminder to Back up the 
man in uniform . . . Buy War 
Bonds . . . Write letters. This last, 
we believe, is particularly import
ant for there seems to be nothing 
better to cheer up the members of 
our fighting forces than to receive 
a letter from some loved one at 
home.
