<hc cDnruedic 3Tariau
Vol. 35 No. 6CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1941
Vol.35o N6CC N33oA5R 
EG IA. Vo3SS35 Tl5.
Techites to Prove 
Football Interest 
By Contributions
Today at 11:30, the Tech student 
body will hold a mass meeting to 
protest the present football situa
tion at Tech. The purpose of this 
meeting is to demonstrate to the 
Alumni and Administration that 
the student body wants and in
tends to get a good football team.
The meeting will be .held on the 
Quadrangle in front of the Arts 
School. At that time Student 
Council members will explain the 
purpose of the assembly; and the 
Kiltie Band, dressed in their kilts, 
will take up a collection from the 
students. Each student will be 
asked to contribute a sum of 50c 
or more towards the Steffen Schol
arship Fund. This money will be 
given directly to the fund to pro
vide for the subsidation of one or 
two football players next year. 
Subsequent contributions will be 
welcomed and may be paid at the 
cashiers office. This will not build 
a team, but if the student body suc
cessfully culminates this drive, the 
Alumni and Administration will 
take action.
Recently, the Alumni took a vote 
upon the advisability of abolishing 
the Steffen Fund, because of the 
apparent lack of interest in the 
team. Although the eighteen hun
dred seats in the student section are 
always filled to capacityand that 
by a student body numbering only 
twenty-one hundredit is felt that 
this attendance is not a true index 
of the, student opinion, since the 
admission price is included in the 
activities fee which all students 
must pay. Student Council feels 
that this contribution of one thou
sand dollars can not be regarded as 
a mere display of passive interest; 
and that by all out attendance to 
the meeting, and full support of the 
drive, the Alumni and Administra
tion can be convinced of the stu
dents sincerity.
Not only is the success of this 
drive necessary to give momentum 
to a re-emphasis movement in ath
letics, but the present members of 
the team who take the field against 
such superior opponents as Notre 
Dame and Pitt should be shown the 
esteem which the school holds for 
them. These boys put on a grand 
exhibition of spunk and fight last 
Saturday, and fully deserve the 
tribute of the students.
If the drive is successfully com
pleted, Student Council will, in 
conjunction with the Alumni, bring 
five or six men to Carnegie on 
Vol.3l5N6 ol CARN E
Dance Tax
Tech Studes Now 
Dance for Defense
By Ed Goldstein
Many Tech students were suprised when they found their Tea 
Dance admission ticket raised from 
the old twenty-five cents to a new 
modern streamlined twenty-eight 
cents. The price change wasnt 
made to increase the revenue from 
the dances, it was just an old fel
ler named Uncle Sam stepping in.
Yes, at last Tuesdays Student 
Council meeting, President Charles 
Richardson announced that the 
revenoors were after us and that all 
social affairs would be subject to a 
ten per cent amusement tax. Mr. 
Davis confirmed the fact that the 
government agents had finally 
tracked him down and acquainted 
him with the facts. He is now 
to serve in the newly created posi
tion of exchequer of ye U. S. 
government funds at Carnegie 
Tech.
Many new theories on the subject 
have arisen. Will Tech men and 
women resort to bootleg dancing? 
Will they post plebes at the doors 
to warn them when the revenoors 
come snooping around? We hardly 
think so! The dances will go on as 
usual, and we will now have a real 
thought in mind when we spend 
Thursday afternoon Dancing for 
Defense!
GA.I VS5T USAlO 
FH6 LNAH UHoRHAY
Carnegie Techs undergraduate 
Mathematics Club is now entering 
its third yeara year for which 
an interesting program has . been 
planned. Highlighting this program 
will be a Problem Contest.
Each week a Brain Teaser will 
be published in the TARTAN, and 
the names of persons submitting 
correct solutions will be announced. 
Cash prizes will be awarded to stu
dents submitting the greatest num
ber of correct solutions.
Continuing last years policy 
mathematical treatises will be pre
sented once a month. These papers 
will be selected so as to appeal not 
only to the mathematician but also 
to the general student body as a 
whole. Other features will include 
problem sessions, social functions, 
and an annual banquet.
E6UOGo VoF3CC3C HLYGFo65,3 
PS BAooU3 ED36o3F oG 2F6L6oC
By Jeanne King
Backstage at the Nixon, I watch
ed Lyle Talbot don the make-up 
that would change him into another 
character. He applied the coppercolored grease paint and eye sha. . . ,PSN BASTo.
dow with the dexterity of a make
up artist. Years of experience in 
and around the theatre had given 
him the ability to handle any the
atrical tasks. In Separate Rooms, 
a play that has pleased many audi
ences, he was doing a more than 
competent job. As he spoke, I 
learned something of the way a 
dayed-in-the-wool actor has lived.
Since he was a child, playing bit 
parts during summer vacations in 
his parents travelling stock com
pany in the middle west, Mr. Tal
bot had wanted to act. Growing up 
and acting at the same time was a 
rather difficult assignment for a 
little boy. He attended the Uni
versity of Nebraska for a year, but 
he didnt want to concentrate on
academic studies which took time 
from his theatre work.
A loyal Texan, Mr. Talbot still 
thinks that Dallas is one of the up 
and coming cities in the country. 
Texjans do great things, he said. 
Possibly he meant in football, be
cause he added that the colleges 
are finely endowed and run up some 
beautiful records. Football should 
be an attraction for the school, 
Mr. Talbot said. He thinks that 
the publicity which an outstand
ing team gives to a school is a 
good thing. As he spoke, we were 
interrupted by the cheers of a 
thousand roaring football fans over 
some radio.
The first time that he met Dick 
Powell was in 1933 on the Stanley 
stage here in Pittsburgh. Dick was 
master of ceremonies and Mr. Tal
bot was appearing with several 
Warner Brothers Stars  Bette 
Davis, Glenda Farrell and Tom Mix, 
who were touring the counti'y for 
a publicity stunt, to advertise the 
then li.ttle-known stars, Bette Davis 
and Glenda Farrell. Then and now, 
his stays in Pittsburgh have really 
been a return to his home town. He 
liyed here for the first few weeks 
of his life, until his mother died. 
Then Mr. Talbot took his infant son 
to Nebraska.
Dramats, take note! Lyle Talbot 
highly recommends the system that 
Nebraskas drama school uses to 
acquaint its students with some 
of the finer details of the theater. 
Several older men and women in 
Lincoln who have retired from the 
theater, are given suitable roles 
in the plays which the department 
produces. In this way the embryo 
actors obtain many good, practical 
tips from the former professionals. 
Mr. Talbot thinks that the Little 
Theater at Tech is the most import
ant part of the Tech actors educa
tion. In his words, there are no 
short cuts for- developing ability, 
because in all the arts it is constant 
practice that counts.
Plan Formed 
Will Improve 
Student Health
In an effort to decrease the num
ber of colds, and the time missed 
from classes as a result thereof, the 
department of student health is in
augurating on the campus this year 
a cold preventive to be taken in
ternally.
It is especially recommended for 
persons who are subject to colds, 
to prevent them or to reduce their 
occurence or lessen their severity 
and duration. Clinical experience 
has shown that the incidence of 
colds has been reduced 60 to 70 
per cent by, this means. It is also 
beneficial to all respiratory infec
tions, including bronchitis, rhinitis, 
catarrh, and pharyngitis.
The treatment consists of a series 
of pulvules taken for seven suc
cessive days before breakfast, then 
two pulvules a week throughout 
the period of greatest prevalence of 
colds to maintain immunity.
Tl^pse who are susceptible to 
many and severe colds should con
sult Dr. Sipple upon the advisabil
ity of first taking the cold inocu
lations and following them by vac
cine, to procure a more effective 
prophylaxis.
The pulvules may be obtained at 
the office of the resident physician, 
room 202 gymnasium, at fifty cents 
for twentya maintenance supply 
until Christmas vacation if the 
treatment is started soon. The stu
dent health department would ap
preciate the cooperation of the stu
dent body in this preventive 
measure.
Attorney Leaves 
Tech Scholarship
In the will of the late Charles 
Gulentz, who was for many years 
a practicing attorney in Pittsburgh, 
the Carnegie Institute of Technol
ogy was bequeathed $100,000 for 
the purpose of establishing tuition 
scholarships. The income from this 
bequest at present investment rates 
should provide funds for seven or 
eight such scholarships. i
Mr. Gulentz outlined in the will 
the method of selecting awardees, 
all of whom must be in need of as
sistance to be eligible, and must 
meet the entrance requirements of 
the Admissions office. Three schol
arships, two for males and one for 
females are to be available to stu
dents of the family name Gulentz 
who are related to the donor. The 
remaining awardees are to be resi
dents of Pittsburgh of the Roman 
Catholic faith nominated by the 
Roman Catholic Bishop of Pitts
burgh and confirmed by the Pres
ident of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology, whose ruling is final.
If in any year there are not three 
qualified, eligible candidates of the 
Roman Catholic faith, the schplarships thus still left open are avail
able to be awarded by the Presi
dent of the Institute to qualified 
non-Catholic applicants.
Dr. Muir Speaks 
To Tech Y, M. C. A.
Tomorrow evening the Carnegie 
Mens Christian Association will 
hold a meeting for all men inter
ested in Y-cabinet activities at 7:30 
in the Carnegie Union. Although 
this meeting is intended primarily 
for freshmen, upperclassmen are 
also welcome.
The speaker at this meeting will 
be Dr. C. Marshall Muir, of the 
Shadyside Presbyterian Church. 
Dr. Muir was one of the first work
ers for a Tech branch Y. M. C. A., 
and has been an active supporter of 
the Carnegie Y.
This meeting is the opening 
event of a program designed to ac
quaint Tech students with the C. 
M. C. A.
United Fund B35 N6U13F5 EG 9U64 
Starts Today IUUec6F53RA3 265,3
Following is an excerpt from an 
open letter written by President 
Dohcrly to the faculty:
In the troubled slate of national 
and world affairs, we must not lose 
sight of emergencies which face us 
in our own communitj'. By sup
porting a unified campaign forfunds we can contribute to the in
telligent and humane solution of 
social problems too vast for the in
dividual citizen to cope with. It is 
hard to imagine a worthier cause.
The Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology will wish to do its share to
ward the success of the United 
Fund Drive, which this year ex
tends from October 20 to November
8.
Because of the special emergency 
budgets for American Red Cross, 
Pittsburgh Chapter, the U. S. O., 
War Prisoners Aid Committee, and 
the U. S. Committee for the Care 
of European Children, these agen
cies have been added to the eight}' 
or more others covered by the 
Community Fund in the past and 
all united into the United Fund.
During this week, every student 
on the campus will be approached 
for a contribution to the Fund. To 
meet this vast increase each con
tributor is going to have to donate 
more this year than for any pre
vious one. Each donation is vol
untary, and, the Fund will return 
or cancel any pledge that was ob
tained by coercion. Students will 
review the aims of the organization 
in short ten minute talks, envelopes 
will then be passed among the stu
dents and contributions or pledges 
.arc to be put in them. Deferred 
payments will not have to be in fot 
some time; so each donor is ad
vised to pledge as much as is possi
ble for him to contribute.
United Fund collects and dis
tributes money for more than 
eighty social, health, and war-time 
agencies. By combining the organ
izations for one drive, various serv
ices can be rendered to the commu
nity at a cost of five cents on the 
dollar while previously three and 
four limes is. much as this was 
necessaiy for overhead. Funds arc 
thus released for human service 
that would otherwise be spent on 
raising monev. Duplication of ef
fort is avoided, and teamwork is 
fostered between agencies, ' both 
private and public. Since the in
ception of Community Fund thir
teen years ago, over thirty million 
dollars has been raised in Alle
gheny County.
Not just a haphazard charity, 
United Fund systematically plans 
campaigns' of aid and sympathetic 
advice by representatives of agen
cies with years of experience. New 
agencies and new types of work are 
constantly added to meet changing 
needs. All religious groups are 
strongly represented among the va
rious organizations; care is provid
ed for handicapped members of all 
races indiscriminately. 'Government 
agencies can only deal with the 
gross social needsUnited Fund 
gives the personal care to unfor
tunate people.
In service clubs- which the U.S.O.
Vol.3l5N6 ol DCARN E
Melodrama Opens
UH3l.3lR 2HA6O 
1Nl6NH 9NH43eNO 
coH hi 9i tNsNlON
Five recent Tech Printing De
partment graduates are doing their 
part for defense by serving on the 
civilian staff of the Engineering Re
production Plant of the United 
States War College in Washington,
D. C. The Assistant Operations 
Officer of the plant is a regular 
army officer, Captain Gordon V. 
Durr, Printing, class of 1929. Serv
ing on his civilian staff are four 
members of the 1941 Printing grad
uating class: Irving J. Bonn, Harold 
Dunn of football fame, William O. 
Spangler, and Donald J. Inrig.
The actual function of the Divi
sion is the preparation of maps 
and field photographs and other 
material for the army. All of the 
processes are under the heading 
of photo-lithography. Because of 
the training that Carnegie men get 
in this field, our graduates are able 
to render services on the civilian 
technical staff. Wc are proud of 
the fact that Tech is the only school 
in the country that can provide men 
with the necessary qualification.
Another unit along the same lines 
is functioning down at Fort Bclvoir in Virginia. Private Edward 
Britt, M0, Printing, is serving with 
this organization. Here field units 
arc being equipped with cameras 
and offset presses with their dark
rooms. AH of this machinery is 
mounted on trucks for use during 
maneuvers and actual warfare.
Carnegies Course. In offset work 
has become so popular that thirty 
men are taking this photo-litho
graphy course at night. It is inter
esting to add that since our depart
ment is engaged in defense, it is 
being enlarged to cope with the sit
uation.
SnS Dance ('.lass
This year the Scotch and Soda 
Club will again sponsor a tap danc
ing class under the direction of 
Audrey Botkin, 44. The purpose 
of the class is to train those stu
dents who would like to do chorus 
work in next springs Scotch and 
Soda show. Whether they have 
had previous training or not, all 
interested students are invited to 
come over to Thistle Hall this Sat
urday at 11:30 A. M. to sign up.
All those interested in writing 
skits or books for Scotch and Soda 
are also asked to contact Robert 
Challener, 42, tomorrow at 4:30 P. 
M. in the Tap Room, located in the 
basement of the Fine Arts School.
Tartan Notice
Because of the short interval of 
time which has elapsed since the 
first announcement of the TAR
TAN photography contest, we are 
extending the time limit one addi
tional week. The DEADLINE will be 
next Tuesday at 12:30. Get your 
photos in as soon as possible.
hED3 EiG PFYD65Ct 9F3C35oC 
s5Arl3 V3ooA5RC 65. cGColL3C
IRC Club to Meet
Tomorrow afternoon at 3:30 the 
International Relations Club will 
hold its regular bi-monthly meeting 
at the Student Union. Mr. Dawes 
addressed the club last meeting on 
the situation in the Far East. Since 
there was no time for the question 
period afterward, the discussion of 
Japans and the United States posi
tion in the Orient will be carried on 
tomorrow. Girls, whether members 
or not, should plan to attend this 
interesting meeting.
Freshman Smoker
The Freshman Orientation Com
mittee will hold a smoker this 
evening for the freshmen and up
perclassmen of the Mechanical Engi
neering Department. It will be held 
in the Faculty Lounge in the Com
mons Annex at eight oclock.
Professor David C. Sayler will de
liver ,an illustrated lecture on Me
chanical Developments.
Unique settings and costumes, 
will be featured in the Drama De
partments opening production of 
the season in the Little Theater. 
The Two Orphans, a nineteenth 
century melodrama, will be feat
ured for eight days starting this 
Thursday, with a matinee perform
ance this Friday afternoon.
Tickets for the play are now 
available in the Registrars office. 
These tickets are given to the stu
dents free of charge, and may be 
used for admission before 8:15 
oclock of the evening indicated on 
the ticket. After 8:1-5 P. M. non
ticket holders will be admitted, if 
any vacant seats remain. The per
formances start at 8:30 oclock. As 
the number of tickets is limited, no 
one student is permitted to have 
more than one.
The Two Orphans is unusual in 
that the play calls for seven 
changes of scenery. The settings 
are mounted on six dollies, which 
are three-sided units that can be 
wheeled around into different po
sitions to form the background for 
the several scenes. Because of the 
large number of scenery changes, 
the production crew has gone to a 
great deal of labor in preparing for 
the coming play. A large measure 
of the success of the production 
will be due to their splendid work 
in producing the settings, under 
the leadership of Mr. Lloyd Weninger.
The costumes for the production 
are also very outstanding. The ac
tion 6f The Two Orphans takes 
place in the late eighteenth cen
tury, the pre-revolutionary period. 
Jane Pursch, 44, Mike Sivy, 43, 
and Annmarshall Price, 42, have 
designed the costumes. The clothes 
worn in the play will range from 
the lavish court costume of the 
time to the thread-bare rags of the 
Frochard family. Mrs. Kimberley 
is in charge of costume making. *
Jane Lloyd-Jones, 4,3, and Pa
tricia Meyer, 43, are cast as I-Ienriette, one of the two orphans. The 
other orphan is to be played by 
Muriel Rosoff, 44, and Ruth Storm, 
44. T^he policy of having a double 
cast, each to perform on alternate 
nights, will be pursued throughout 
most of the cast of characters.
Lester Stanford, 43, and Rich
ard Rose, 43, fill the role of 
Jacques Frochard, an outlaw. La 
Frochard, mother of Jacques, is to 
be played by Elise Cox, 43, and 
Elizabeth Root, 42. Other leading 
members of the cast are Christo
pher Smith, 43, and Roland Kraus, 
42, as Chevalier Maurice de Vaudrey, Anne Alexander, 44, and Molly 
van Amerigen, 42, as Countess 
Diane de Linieres, Annamarshall 
Price, 42, and Marisse Forbes, 42, 
as Marianne, Tom Jones, 43, and 
Manuel Rubin, 44, as Pierre, and 
Robert Challener, 42, and Mitchell 
Agruss, 44, as Picard.
Len Malvern
Plebes to Run 
Affair With Class 
Officers in Charge
When the students swing out at 
the Freshman All-Carnegie Dance 
this Friday night Len Malvern, a 
prominent local boy will provide the 
rhythm. Len, who also played for 
the first Fresh-_ 
man dance, is 
near the top lolocally and this 
will be almost a 
demand return. 
The scene of this 
fun - fest is as 
usual Thistle 
Hall, from 9 to 1.
Even though 
local, Malverns 
orchestra is 
solid as the 
hepcats say and 
has established 
an enviable rep
utation' for itself here abouts. In 
other years it has played for many 
school functions and has always 
been excellent.
Another attraction is the program 
centering about a theme which al
though as yet is a secret, pnynises
io be unique. In addition the hall 
will be decorated in the autumn 
mood and will provide the proper , 
background for this dance which 
promises to be the high spot of the 
Frosh fall social season.
Freshman Officers
The dance is sponsored by the 
freshman class and the newly-elect
ed officers arc in charge of the proparations. These officers, who were 
elected last Tuesday arc: In the 
College of Engineeringpresident, 
John Reese, vice-president, Norman 
Parker, secretary, Jerome Jacobs, 
treasurer, Otto Magel; in Margaret 
Morrison Carnegie Collegepresi
dent, Audrey Lawrence, vice-prcsfdcnl, Olive Tishlarich, secretary, 
Martha Townoy, treasurer, Dorothy 
Willison, Sdnato representative,'Rea 
Simon; in the College of Fine Arts 
president, Everett Hoffman, vicepresident, Theodore Daniels, treas
urer, Morton Cohn.
The plebes, under the direction 
of these officers, are hopefully so
liciting the support of the uppcrclassmen at the price of $1.10 per 
couple. They proudly point out that 
this price includes the national de
fense tax, and that even if you dont, 
care about having a good time, 
buying a ticket is as good as pur
chasing a Defense Savings Stamp!. 
By the way,, the dance is informal..
Tech Students 
Exhibit Paintings 
At Art Institute
Three hundred of the countrys 
best painters' will have their paint
ings displayed in the Carnegie In
stitute exhibition, "Directions in 
American Painting, which will 
open Thursday and continue. 
through December 14th. This is 
the first show of its kind ever to 
be put on, and is experimental in 
every sense. With the inability to, 
secure foreign art, the Institute is. 
giving this exhibition to* show the 
trends of American Art, as well 
as to discover some hidden Ameri
can talent, which, the directors 
feel, needs only such an opportu
nity for its revelation.
Among the three hundred pieces 
to be displayed are seven works by 
Tech students and faculty mem
bers. Richard Crist is exhibiting 
The Bridge, Everett Glasgow 
presents Fruit and Heather, Rob
ert Cwathmey, From Out the Old 
South, Robert Lepper, Bottle 
Maker, Alan Thompson, By the 
Roadside. Frank A. Trapp, 
Picta, and Frances Wright, 
Across the Tracks.
The Committee of Admission will 
also act as a Jury oJ' Awards to dis
tribute the seven monetary prizes 
which total .$3,200 in this exhibit. 
It is felt that a great deal of talent 
now unknown and unacclaimed, 
will be revealed in the seven-week 
show.
|  On the lKe;orl j
Today, October 21, 12:30, Room 
157, Arts, Mr. Charles A. H. Pear
son will supervise this phonograph 
x*ecital:
C Major Symphony .......... Mozart
La Mer (The Sea) ............Debussy
Thursday, October 23, 12:30,
Room 157, Arts, Dr. Frederick 
Dorian will be in charge of this perormance:
The Song of the Earth .... Mahler

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1941
I Want si Team Day
Tlih morning a mass meeting ot! the entire student body will be 
held on the lawn oi: the Fine Arts building at the usual assembly 
hour. The theme of! this demonstration i.s, in the words oi: Mr. Rich
ardson, president oi' Council,  I Want a Team Day. The purpose oi! 
this gathering is to bring the entire student body into a firmly united 
front on the question oi! football. There is an opinion prevalent on 
OMin.pns that Carnegie Tech can have good teams, perhaps not in the 
class of Minnesota, Michigan, or Ford ham, but certainly on par with 
Harvard, Princeton, Yale, Lehigh, and Lafayette.
The question of football has been a widely-discussed issue. 
Sports writers over the country have, in one way or the other, 
panned Dr. Doherty, the Administration, and the school in general, 
for the sharply accelerated de-emphasis of intercollegiate athletics at 
Tech. At the present time we are not concerned with the past and 
its comparisons, but we are thinking of the future and allowing the 
experiences of the plush years, coupled with those of the lean 
years, guide us in our decision.
We are faced with a number of alternatives among which is that 
of quitting the field of intercollegiate athleticsa move we are de
cidedly against for more than one reason. There is the possibility 
that we can continue to de-emphasize to the point that we are totally 
submerged in Class 13 or C. We can return to the position which we 
so rapidly vacated. The most logical and practical suggestion is to 
build a team up to the Class A league, schools that have a name but 
whose football prowess does not run in the same vein with Minnesota 
or Ford ham.
To do this the students of this campus are faced with the diffi
cult problem of convincing the administration and the Alumni that 
we want a good football team. Through the past years the Alumni
been conditioned to believe that the students do not want or do 
re about a football team. We say now that we want a good 
Dr., Doherty wants a good team. He is willing to provide a
: -g table for the team; he will supply jobs for the players 
amounting to $2,200 a year. Of course the players must meet the 
scholastic requirements of the school.
Today, a drive will be started to have every student contribute 
fifty cents or more for the establishment of an athletic fund. The 
money will be used to put one or more players through school. If 
the students support this drive 100 per cent, it will be the most con
vincing proof that we can offer the Alumni for the establishment of a 
good team. The Alumni should be able to raise a sum six to ten 
times our amount. With this fund as a background, we can put a 
good Class A team on the field.
We believe that every student owes it to himself, the school and 
to the boys of the team who gave such a valiant display of courage 
this past Saturday to consider the questions before us. We ask for 
the wholehearted support of every student, the Administration, and 
the Alumni.
The Privilege of Giving
in a world;where so many activities are being carried out under 
compulsion, vVhere men must look upon persecution and hold their 
tongUes, we in America should be glad to be able to give of our own 
free will to help our fellow men.
The United Fund gives all of us the opportunity to give, not 
only for those whom we want to help at home, but also for tjiose 
who are suffering under the scourge of war in other lands.
Through the United Fund the 82 Community Fund agencies, 
which serve more than a hundred thousand Allegheny County eiiizens Caeli year, are making their annual appeal for support. Nursing 
service for the sick, n few weeks of camp life for city-bred young
sters, help with troubles which threaten family life, homes for chil
dren who, through no fault of 1 heirs, have no homethese are services which are hi ways'vital to our community life.
Under the United I'Vmd banner, too, is tile USO, which provides 
recreational Facilities outside army camps, naval stations, and de
fense production eenterst he Red Cross whose activities have ex
panded to include I lie important work of training volunteers for 
civilian defense the War Prisoners Aid which is giving hope and 
courage to millions of prisoners of war in belligerent countries by 
supplying them with games, books, and working materialsand the 
<'.ommittee for the Care of Refugee Children, which is taking or
phaned children from surroundings of fear and destruction abroad 
and bringing them to foster homes in this country.
Io give for causes such as these is not only a privilege, it is a responsibility. ' j
Letter to the Editor
G53 GS oD3 RAFUC
 Peggy YoungCff The Cuff
'To Editor:
Modern design seems to have 
changed everything for the better 
Jhese.cUvjh?.. Broop . . . Broop
V. . BROOP goes the little radio 
announcer in an ascending tone as 
he symbolizes Americas advance on 
land, sea, and in the air. Well, I 
go broop, broop, broop too, but its 
only the good old Bronx cheer as 
far as I'm concerned. The mod
ernization that has American forg
ing ahead, has been overlooked at 
Tech. Our academic detachment 
is noticeable in our buildings and 
grounds as they are left to gather 
rust, dust, and tradition. Almost 
all of the Buildings need improve
ments, and there have been no 
major additions to the campus in 
years.
Minor additions have popped'up 
. occasionally. The way, these are 
usually taken care of is to have an 
architect draw up plans, and then 
erect a cute little miniature in the
Imagine an attractive girl about 
5 feet 5 inches with long blonde 
hair, limpid green eyes, and very 
dark eyelashes, add a vivacious 
personality, and you have the 
TARTAN girl of the weekPeggy 
Young. This P. and D. Senior is. 
very active, for she has been on the 
W. A. A. Board for three years, was 
Tech Snow Queen last year; and 
is now Secretary tof Scotch and 
Soda, as well as President of Intersorority Council.
Presiding over the council is 
Peggys pet activity. She enjoys 
this work because she believes 
firmly in unity among the sorori
ties.
The Bolero number that Peggy 
and Henry Bernard originated and 
did in last years Scotch and Soda 
Revue, One On the House, is 
something that she has always 
wanted to do, even though it took 
two hours to get into costume and 
make-up. Because of her outstand
ing success in the revue, Peggy re
ceived during the summer several 
offers to dance professionally. On 
the dance floor, as well as on the 
stage, Peggy prefers to Rhumba, 
Conga, and Tango. Jitterbugging, 
she says, is just not in her line.
Practically every kind of sport 
appeals to Peggy. Her specialty, 
however., is fencing which she. has 
studied for two and a half years.
Peggy is especially concerned, 
with the war situation since she 
has several English cousins in the 
R.A.F. and the R.N. She receives
Administration Building. As model 
houses go, they are pretty perfect 
and ideal, but as substitutes for 
modern facilities they lack some
thing. If the authorities would 
plant the models in their prospec
tive locations, perhaps the tilings 
would sprout.
It sounds rather harsh to ask the 
trustees to replace the antedated 
buildings with newer models, but 
we can at least expect the old ones 
to be modernized. Window rais
ing and lowering equipment in In
dustries Hall must have been the 
rage in 1906, but its nothing but 
a pain to students and professors 
now. Elevators in Engineering 
Hall work, but that is about all 
that can be said for them. The li
brary squeaks, .is drafty, and is a 
nice place for social convei*sation, 
but as for study its not an ideal 
place.
(Signed) JACK SHORE.
Council Minutes
Thu Minutes of the Student CouncilMeeting:
Committee Reports
Social
Mr. Burton presented a petition from 
Interfraternity Council asking for the use 
of the gym for the Interfraternity Informal 
to be held on November 21, and moved 
for upproval.
Mr. Kritscher read the results of the 
Freshman Elections. He said that he will 
jiive the results to the Orientation Com
mittee so thnt they can check the eligibil
ity of the class officers.Undent
rC3l3olO NvCHNOON6 3l .IN CARNO os .IN Bb1Bba AHN .IoON os .IN YNYn
TNHO os .IN O.Assy 3l .IN eAON os .IN N63.oH3AS eoS5Yl .INP AHN .IoON os .IN 
u63.oHi BINP AHN lo. .o TN eolO.H5N6 AO lNeNOOAH3SP .IN oC3l3olO os N3.INH 
.IN O.56Nl. To6P oH .IN faculty.
(frarneejie (Tartan
CnritnKltt Institute of TcohuoloKy> Solienley Park, Pittsburgh, Pa.
PHONK V1 AYl'l.O\Vi:it UMHIO IHONE SCHF.NI.KY J5R7
e^.NTB0 rOH NATIONAL AOVT.U.Na OY Aftd' OfllCO IIOUI'S Call
National Avvertitane Service, Inc. ElUtor_l.clller ........... schonicy mo
Business MttmiKcr ........... lIAzcl :!!!Vol .35N6CA REGI New SCNNGT UI SI I T IIIego.  . u,....... Advertising GAlARNHi .SClicnloy 19.13
Mutcroil us Mooonit-oliiss matter In the Plttsliurirh Pont Ollloo under tlm Act of 
Marcii I, IH7I>.
Published weekly during school year, exoeiit holidays and examination periods. 
Subscription Price SI.Ul per year.
u63.oHD3lDVI3Ns................................................................................... 9A5S GoONO
d5O3lNOO GAlARNH.....................................................................:AHHP bTHAYo43.0
GAlAR3lR u63.oH...........................................................................BoAllN B3OISAH3eI
aNwO Editor.....................................................................................dAHTAHA mHAYNH
bOO3O.Al. GAlAR3lR u63.oH.........................................................23STNH. m3wYOol
VoCP u63.oH.........................................................................GNHeN6NO V5ll3lRIAY
VoCP u63.oH.............................................................................iiiUIPSS3O d5eI3lAl
9CoH.O u63.oH...........................................................................................goN BIoYAO
b64NH.3O3lR GAlARNH.................................. .............................9PS4Al 1oONls3eS6
V3He5SA.3ol GAlARNH...................................................................936lNP 2NTNSo3o
9.Ass bH.3O.i.........................................................................................uSS3o.. B34NHP
9CoH.O UIo.oRHACINH........................................................................VIAHSNO pNle3S
censored letters from them now 
and then, from which all names of 
ships and their locations are 
stricken out. In spite of the up
heaval Peggy says that they seem 
to take the war much more calmly 
than we do over here.
After graduation Peggy expects 
to teach art . She would like to 
teach in a girls school where she 
would also be able to instruct in 
other branches of the artsthe 
dance, drama, and music. Although, 
Peggy is not planning too. far ahead, 
she does hope that teaching will 
eventually lead into some other 
field of art.
Dirt is where you find it, and if 
you are looking for grime, youve 
come to the right place. Burrow your 
way in, friend, and join the mob.
This weeks bouquet is tossed in 
the direction of the Scotch and Soda 
orchestra, whose solid jive was very 
popular at the Pep Rally Tea Dance. 
Incidentally, those of you who 
didnt go missed a swell time.
Over the tea cups at last Thurs
days shindig: . .
George Tondorf accomplished the 
impossible. He actually got one 
dance with the very smooth Angie 
Cleaveswith Chuck Richardsons 
consent, we hasten to add.
Helen Pollis and Jack Satterfield 
got in some swell jiterbugging when 
the S n S boys turned on the fast 
stuff.
Ted Ebert showed more than 
passing interest in Bunny Hanff.
Ray Schreyer, Bob Wenstori, Faust 
DAmbrosi, Bob Whiteside, and Bob 
Deissler kept themselves in constant 
circulation.
Harold Bullkowski, that wolf in 
Esquires clothing, was on hand 
looking over the field.
Russia Jacobson didnt let Tim
my Timberlake, freshman Dramat, 
out of his sight for long.
Lee Watkins, Bob Smith, Jim 
McCulloch, and Gary Lawrence rep
resented the P and D contingent at 
the occasion.
Leaving our tea balls for a mo
ment, we hear that Gene Gottlieb 
and Chris Smith made quite a laphappy couple last Saturday night.
Marjie Hall is not only engag
ed, but her fiance has already 
bought the first spoon toward their 
silver set.
Motion carried.
He then reported that the bond required 
by Council has been put up by Scabbard 
and Blade, and their budget is therefore 
automatically npproved.
Orientation
Mr. Wines reported thqt the Tradition 
Exam lias been given. Rbsults 'will' be 
checked and the eligibility of the newlyelected Freshman olllcers will be detei> 
mined.
Spcoial
Mr. Durbin gave the report of the com
mittee on the TARTAN question as fol
lows:
The entire committee being present, 
the following three points were decided 
upon:
I. Student Council minutes shall be 
printed In full in the TARTAN as 
handed to the stall' by the Secretory 
of Student Council.
All organization notices shall be 
printed In the TARTAN, provided 
the proper method is used to get 
them to the TARTAJ'I staff.
3. Retractions shall be made for all ob
vious mistakes of fact provided the 
mistake is contested.
The committee feels that It is not within 
'.he jurisdiction of the committee to state 
a system of punishment for breech of any 
of the three above points. It would rather 
trike for a fact the good word of the TAR
TAN editor until such time as a punish
ment for breach of any of the three points 
is deemed necessary. At this time it shall 
be the duty of Council itself to state the 
punishment.
Old cDnruuedd
Mr. SholTner called for a vote on the 
petition of the Intra-Mural Managers Club 
asking that their constitution be accepted.
New Business 
Mr. Richardson presented a letter from 
the Womens Intercollegiate Association for 
Student Government inviting Carnegie 
Tech to send a representative to a con
ference at the University of Vermont. Miss 
Fleming reported that she had received a 
similar letter. Because Tech has no sepa
rate Women's Government, and because of 
the expense connected with such a trip. 
Council decided not to- send a delegate. 
Any student who cares to go at her own 
expense may do so.
Mr. Hill reported that Scabbard and 
Blade has ordered favors for the Military 
Ball. They would like Council to ad
vance them S60 as the down payment. Mr. 
Hill moved that the Council advance this 
amount to Scabbard and Blade.
Motion carried.
Mr. Richardson informed the members 
of Council that starting October 1. all 
dances are to be taxed at 10 per cent face 
value of the tickets. A 10 per cent tax 
must be paid on all tickets sold by any 
organization for any social function. This 
includes tea dance. Mr. Richardson an
nounced that there will be a Pep Rally on 
Friday night. There will be a parade, a 
bnfire and speeches in preparation for the 
Notre Dame game.
The Student Council picture will be 
taken for the Thistle on Sunday afternoon. October 19.
Adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
DOROTHY PIPER.
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
cDnru ed nd
ISLYS
MILK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM 
CONES
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the 
College District
5808 Forbes St.. Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Allies
Strauss Op era 
Is Highlight of 
Concert Season
One of the highlights of the cur
rent concert season will be the per
formance by the Pittsburgh Sym
phony Orchestra, of excerpts from 
the opera Der Rosenkavalier, 
presented for the first time in con
cert form.  The part of Feldmarschallin in Richard Strauss glorious 
opera will be sung by Lotte Leh
man, who has been called one of 
the greatest dramatic singers of 
our time. Suzanne Sten, the 'beau
tiful new contralto who has one of 
the outsanding voices of the young
er generation, will sing the part of 
Octavian. The great Hungarian 
soprano, Margit Bokor, who is mak
ing her first American tour, will 
sing the'part of' Sophie.
It was Fritz Reiners great suc
cess in the conduction of Der 
Rosenkavalier with the Chicago 
Opera Company last season which 
suggested the idea of doing ex
cerpts from this opera in concert 
form with the Pittsburgh Sym
phony. For his expert conducting 
and operatic genius, Dr. Reiner was 
given lavish praise by the Chicago 
Sunday Times.
N6CC N33oA5Rvvv
Vol.3l5N6 sHoY CARN f 
scholarships. The council will en
deavor to obtain boys who have 
been honor students in high school, 
and gained exceptional recognition 
in football. Moreover, they should 
be motivated by the desire to at
tend Tech because of the caliber of 
the school, and to get a degree in 
Fine Arts or Engineering. In re
turn for their participation in foot
ball, they will be given scholarships 
sufficient to pay for their tuition 
and books.
Student Council , feels that this is 
the most plausible method of rem
edying the present athletic setup, 
and urges all students to support 
the movement in an effort to gain 
the backing of the Alumni and Ad
ministration.
Jobs Now Open 
For Students
Representatives of the State Em
ployment Bureau will be in Room 
251, Industries Hall, at 12:30 today 
to interview boys for Saturday and 
Christmas sales work. Boys who 
are interested report to the Office 
of Student Employment at Room 
246, Industries Building before that 
time to fill out a card for the in
terview.
Boys who have signed up for 
Christmas Post Office work will 
please come to the Employment Of
fice for definite information on the 
material to study. The test will con
cern names and .locations of streets 
in. and around the city.
The Railway Express has sent in 
a call for boys 20 or 21 years of age 
to do baggage work. Come in and 
sign for an interview.
Dan Horigan has been dating 
Jean Essen, transfer student, these 
days. Westminsters loss is Car
negie Techs gain.
Marie Schurko has more than one 
engineer following her around cam
pus these days. Why not give them 
a break, Marie?
Jane Musser and Howdy Rehnborg are still hitting it off. Howdys 
system is to keep the other boys 
from getting a chance to talk to her.
s5Ao3. Tl5. vvv
Vol.3l5N6 sHoY CARN f 
will operate, members of oUr armed 
forces will be provided with a 
friendly place when they go into 
town. This agency has been run
ning a little over a year and han
dles a, phase of social maladjust
ment not handled by other agen
cies. The strength of the commu
nity lies in health, the strength, 
and courage of our citizens; the 
right beginning toward securing 
this finer community is by con
tributing to the United Fund.
Records . . .
For those who really want to hear 
a sweet record, played by what we 
think is one of the best bands in 
the country, lend an ear to Les 
Browns recent recording of TIS 
AUTUMN. Starting with soft force
fulness, aided by delicate chime ef
fects, the tune gains crescendo and 
goes into a colorful rhythmic- pat
tern. Plattermate is THAT SOLID 
OLD MAN, a tip-top contrast piece 
possessing a grand beat and fea
turing the smooth work of Browns 
trumpet section.
Charlie Spivak and his sweet 
trumpet hit the top in a sweet bal
lad, UNDER YOUR WINDOW with 
Gary Stevens delivering the ballad 
in a fine vein. On the flip over is 
IN THE DARK OF THE MOON, 
another neatly scored dance treat.
Techs Headquarters 
for Classics and Swing 
Pittsburgh's 
Most 
Beautiful 
Record 
Shop
MATES MUSIC 
COMPANY
532 SMITHFIELD 
GR. 0633
Enough to make 
your hair
instand on end!
On many of the defense projects encountered by the Bell 
System, the work sheets  showing telephone facilities 
needed and time allowedwould make a good, conservative 
engineers liair stand on end.
For example, take the Navys huge new air base near 
Corpus Christi, Texas, which covers 14,500 acres, includes 29 
separate flying fields and 481 buildings. Closely connected 
with the base are Defense Housing projects for 1700 families.
Imagine the complex problems involved in planning tele
phone facilities for this new "city where formerly there 
were sand dunesin obtaining and installing miles and miles 
of wire and cable, switchboards, telephones by the thousand.
But telephone engineers and construction men took hold 
proceeded to shatter recordscompleted their huge task 
in seemingly impossible time. For men with the "will to 
do, theres a real thrill in such Bell System work!

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1941THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
The varsity rifle team headed 
'by Sergeant Sommers began prac
tice September 27, for next springs 
matches. This years squad is com
posed of last years freshman team 
and remaining varsity men of past 
seasons. Due to the - fact that the 
standings of last years better 
marksmen fluctuate, last years 
scores will not necessarily be in
dicative of what those men can do 
this year. Two seniors, Tom Riley 
and Bob Rathbun, and two jun
iors, Vernon Evans and Wallace
ATTENTION
TECH STUDENTS
Go To 
Oaklands Headquarters 
For Speedy Dry Cleaning: 
IN OAKLANDS ONLY
b aPsn cyud
Ladies Plain 
FALL COATS 
and 
Mens 
TOPCOATS
Try Our 3-Hour 
CLEANING SERVICE
(slightly higher)
MODEL
V3F1A,3 cGv
Cleaners & Launderers 
3919 Forbes St. SC. 4313
CALL AND DELIVERY
Ritchey, of the 40-41 varsity who 
were sharpshooters last season will 
probably be outstanding this year.
Practice for the freshmen inter
ested in the rifle team will start 
sometime in the latter part of No. vember. There is actually no fresh
man team, because it only func
tions for the purpose of prepar
ing men for the varsity, and has no 
meets.
The varsity rifle team schedule 
has not been planned but they are 
slated to shoot in the Corps A and 
Hurst trophy matches. This spring 
the match with Navy will be held 
here. In past seasons our riflemen 
have journeyed to Navys shooting 
grounds.
Last year our shooters won the 
Third Corps Area title and the 
year before that they placed third 
in the Middle Atlantic Regionals, 
. fifth in the National meet and main
tained the highest standards in Car
negies history. This seasons squad 
will have to do some mighty fancy 
shooting if they are going to main
tain the standards established by 
the last two years marksmen.
:6LDG, 
d6F.35C
3531 FORBES STREET 
Delirious Chine.sc and American 
Food Is Served 
Spcclnl Menlo At Moderate Prices 
Luncheon Served From 11-3 
P. M.35c and tip 
Dinner Served From 5-9 P. M. 
55c and up 
Also Special Rates For Parties
FORT PITT 
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
Fort Pitt is the Place
You'll welcome ice-cold Coca-Cola just as often and as surely 
as thirst comes. You taste its quality, the quality of genuine 
goodness. Ice-cold Coca-Cola gives you the taste that charms 
and never cloys. You get the feel of complete refreshment, 
buoyant refreshment. Thirst asks nothing more.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
You trust its quality COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY, PITTSBURGH, PA.
No Cramming Necessary!
For swell flavor and 
real chewing fun-the 
answer is delicious 
Wrigleys Spearmint Gum
to Buy 
TYPEWRITERS
Tech Gains Moral 
Victory In Final 
Battle With Irish
Plaids Brilliant 
Defense Holds 
Score to 16-0
Carnegie received another defeat 
last Saturday, but in effect it was 
a victory, because the general con
census of opinion was that the Tar
tans would be unfit to even walk 
off the field after the game. The 
score was 16-0, which is about 
nine points under the lowest esti
mates of those who went so far 
as. to predictixthe score.
The Skibos made one of the most 
gallant stands that Pitt Stadium will 
ever see. Despite the fact that sev
eral of their team were injured 
and that they went into the game 
knowing that they were facing a 
far superior team, they played with 
the spirit of troupers. Their offense 
was pitifuily weak, but on the de
fense they held the Irish at bay 
time after time.
Notre Dame made its first score in 
the middle of the first quarter when 
Bertelli completed one of the passes 
over the goal line. Their second 
score came , in the second quarter 
after Tech bad made one of their 
strongest goal line stands on the one 
yard line. In an effort to surprise 
the Blue and Gold, Jack Fritz ran 
the ball, but failed to reach the 
playing field before he was tackled, 
with the result of a safety. Leahys 
boys made only one score after this 
and that in the last quarter. It was 
a touchdown and the extra point 
was made.
There are two possible explana
tions of the poor showing made by 
the Irish. The most generous of 
these is that that they lay down in 
order to not take too much ad
vantage of their superiority. From 
the looks of the game this does not 
seem to be the answer, at least in 
the cases where they were stop
ped by Tech in the shadow of the 
goal. What, probably , happened is 
that they were thrown oil their 
stride by the rain and also the sur
prisingly determined opposition put 
up by the Tartan warriors.
Geneva Next!
With a moral victory under their 
belts, the Tartans again leave Pitts
burgh to battle the Covenanters. We 
may well hope that the spirit 
founded on the good showing made 
by the Tartans in the last, game will 
not ebb as it did after their vic
tory over Albright. Geneva has 
an average sized team which is 
considex*ably more than Tech poss
esses.
Coach of the Covies is Slim Ran
som, who graduated from Geneva 
in 1932. Advisory coach is Cal 
Hubbard, also of Geneva, class of 
27, and their line coach is Frank 
Walton from Pitt. Geneva this 
year has high hopes for a very suc
cessful season with only one defeat 
this, year, which came last Saturday 
when Westminster defeated them 
6-0, the margin by which the West
minster team defeated the Skibos. 
With this thought in mind, we can 
hope for a game that will be close 
with Tech having the slight edge 
over the Covenanters. Bill Jersey 
and Pete Tkacilc; both having suf
fered from broken collar bones in 
pre-season practice, will see action 
against Tech this coming Saturday.
The game this Saturday which is 
to be played in Reeves Field, which 
incidentally has a capacity of only 
6,000, is the home-coming for the 
Geneva team. Due to the fact that 
this is Genevas home-coming, and 
also that Geneva is so close at hand, 
so that many Tech rooters will go to 
the game, it should turn out to be 
one of the best contests of the sea
son.
Last Saturdays game served to 
show the spirit that the Sklbo team 
possesses, so it would seem that it 
would be a good thing if every stu
dent that could possibly do so 
would go down and see the game 
and give the boys some support In 
one of their many games away 
this year. Certainly they deserve 
all the support that we on the side
lines can give them.
Intramural I Notes
TF3CDL35 BGC3 
TAFCo cG5o3Co 
EG 0v w mvg pfe
On Friday, October 17, the Fresh
man football team opened its 
season by playing the Washington 
and Jefferson freshmen at Butler. 
The game was played under the 
lights at the Butler Stadium. The 
overconfident Tech team went into 
the game with the hopes of an easy 
win, but their hopes were soon 
darkened by the W. and J. squad.
Tech received the ball and the 
receiver was stopped in his tracks 
by a host of tacklers. On the next 
play Irwin, a Tech back, ran the 
ball for a thirty-three yard gain, 
the longest run made by a. Tech 
man. duiing the game. On the fol
lowing play Tech lost the ball.
Team Lacks Spirit
After a series of gains the Prexies of Little Washington pushed 
over a touchdown. Time and again 
the Tech boys attempted to gain 
ground, but the W. and J. line 
swarmed in and stopped the ball 
carrier before he could pass the 
line of scrimmage. When Tech took 
to the air, its first pass was inter
cepted and run for a touchdown. 
The Tech line at no time was able 
to hold the charging W. arid J. men 
back. Although the Skibos were 
larger and heavier, they could not 
halt the drives of the Presidents.
The W. and J. backs, on the other 
hand, were aided by the brilliant 
blocking of their line. The Tech 
boys lacked the fight and spirit 
that a winning team must have. 
After the first touchdown, they lost 
heart and were constantly losing 
ground. The backfield for Tech 
bore the full weight of the attack. 
These boys sparked by Smith, the 
quarterback, attempted to make up 
for the weakness in the line.
Meet Ki.skI Next
Hall Fredericks and Don Beam 
time and again attempted line 
bucks and end runs, but because of 
poor blocking were not able to 
break Into the open, Irwin hi lost 
to the squad for a few weeks be
cause of a shoulder injury receiv
ed during the game. In the third 
quarter the W. and .T. boys tallied 
again to make the score 10-0. The 
Tech boys did not really get the 
spirit until the second team went 
into the game. These boys blocked 
and charged with mpre determina
tion than the, first string line.
 Joe Clark, second string full
back, made the second longest run 
for Tech by driving off-taekle for 
an eleven yard gain. Perhaps the 
reason for the defeat Friday was the 
inexperience of some of the boys 
in college football. The W. and J. 
squad had already met two teams 
and was more experienced.
Next week the team meets Kislcl 
Prep at Sallsburg in what should 
be, an interesting game. Since 
Kiski is noted for its football teams, 
this game will be no walk-away 
for the Tech team.
VQAOG xGGo3FC 
BGC3 x4 ;e 
EG 2AYUGL6oC
Once again the Tech Booters suf
fered a close defeat, this time at the 
hands of the powerful Franklin and 
Marshall soccer team from Lan
caster, Pa. The score, 2 to 0, in
dicates that the game was a closely 
fought battle all the way through. 
The game was fought under most 
adverse conditions, since there was 
standing water covering a good por
tion of the field, besides an almost 
steady downpour during the en
counter. The Tartans put up a good 
battle throughout the game and 
kept the ball in the enemy territory 
a good part of the time, but they 
failed, as usual, to put the ball 
across for the point.
The first scoring of the Diplomats 
came during the opening moments 
of play, then they were held until 
the third quarter when their final 
point was scored. Mainly responsi
ble for holding the Diplomats in 
check were the fullbacks, Will Dean 
and Nelson Crooks, and the half
backs, Bob Reisacher and Sam 
Rickley. These four fellows can 
safely be called the mainstays on 
the team since they have the tough 
job of getting the ball away from 
their opponents and returning it to 
the forward line. Each one of them 
has put up a noble 'fight-in every 
game the Skibos haye played this 
year and although the team hasnt 
won a game so far this year, the 
low scores of all the games can be 
attributed to their very good defen
sive play. Outstanding in the for
ward line in every game is Stan 
Malinski. He has proved to be in
valuable in the Tartan offensive.
At the rate the Tartan booters 
have been improving, they stand a 
good chance against the teams still 
to come. Franklin and Marshall 
beat Slippery Roqlc last Friday by 
a score of 2 to 0. Since Slippery 
Rock beat the Tartans 4 to 1, and 
Franklin and Marshall boat us by a 
score of only 2 to 0, we stand a bet
ter than average chanco of coming 
out on top in the remaining three 
games of the season. Both teams 
were greatly hampered lust Satur
day due to the sloppy condition of 
the field. After a few foments of 
action all the playerii - were almost 
completely covered with mud. The 
condition of the field probably hin
dered the Diplomats more than t|io 
Tartans, however, since the latter 
are somewhat used to playing In the 
mud that Is usually found on the 
Tech soccer field.
TERMS
EASY
Theyre a 
great bar
gain! Stop 
and see
cDnrcuedi3T
MORAL VICTORY FOR TECH 
dP goN BIoYAO 9CoH.O u63.oH
23UoCg 2v sKC 65. cAo,GL cU65 
9FGO6OU3 E36LC SGF 9U64GSSC
As the two-thirds mark of Oc
tober rolls around, the schedule of 
Intramural football shows that all 
games have been completed, but 
the postponed games still remain 
on the docket. These games should 
be played off as soon as possible.
One of the surprise teams of the 
season is that of Theta Xi. These 
boys do not look particularly 
smooth but they come through with 
the victories. Their receivers seem 
to be there to snag the pill and 
scamper for the last white line. On 
the defensive they always have a 
man on or near the ball. Many 
times their opponents were trap
ped behind the line for a substan
tial loss. The game that will really 
test the strength of these boys is 
that to be played with the Delts 
on Wednesday.
The Phi Kaps also have risen to 
heights this year. They are some
what like the Theta Xis in that they 
are not a really smooth team but 
they have the stuff.
The play-offs will be scheduled 
as soon as the postponed games are 
on the piayed side of,.the ledger.. 
To date there are some seventeen 
of these games to be played. The 
Board was of the fond hope that 
the series could be started this
week, but they have decided to wait 
till the books were cleared.
The type of contests which will 
determine the school champions will 
probably be the same as the league. 
Each winner of the separate leagues 
will play the winners of the other 
two leagues. If any one of these 
three teams succeeds in winning 
both its games, it will be de
clared champions. If these teams 
tie, then the names of the two 
which will, tangle for the honors 
will be drawn from a chapeau.
As the situation looks at the pres
ent time, the Delts will represent 
League I, DU from 2, and Citcom 
for 3. As to the outcome of the 
championship, this department 
leaves that up to you.
Next year the Board is going to 
try to set up a group of rules which 
will cover the majority of situa
tions which arise in the games. If 
any of the official players, or spec
tators have any questions which are 
not covered in the px*esent rules, 
they are asked to submit them to 
the board.
This will make for greater uni
formity and a more questionless 
football season.
Varsity Basketball
Those students who have hacl 
any experience in basketball and 
are interested in trying out for the 
varsity basketball team should re
port to coach Max E. Hannum in the 
athletic, office next. Monday, Octo
ber 27, at 4:30 P. M. Coach Han
num wants as many students as 
possible to report.
Tartans Put Up Great Fight
Carnegie Techs football squad of approximately twenty-two 
boys should take the bow of the week for the fine game that they put 
up against Notre Dame, one of the top teams of the country. It is 
impossible to pick a star out of the game for Tech, because everyone 
on the team played their hearts out to contradict all the advance 
publicity and predictions of a terrific beating. Probably the most 
enjoyable feature of the game, to Doc Baker in particular, was the 
fact that none of the players were seriously injured. Of course, 
there were quite a few bruises which can be expected in such a 
game, but .the worst was Bill Philipchuks cleat gash on his leg 
and; knee.
I believe the Carnegie student, body should consider this game 
as a moral victory, after all the predictions in the newspapers of 
a field meet for Notre Dame. Some of these predictions fell in the 
range of last year s score, but the Tech team really upset the appleeart when they held it down to sixteen points. Of course the weather 
may have helped, but the fact remains that Tech stopped three touch
down drives short of the final stripes. One of these goal line stands 
resulted in a safety for the Irish, but one way of looking at it is, 
that two points are better than six or seven in such a score-prevention contest.
Geneva This Week
Saturday afternoon, the Tech squad travels to Beaver Falls to 
meet the.Geneva, team,in the second encounter- of th& present series. 
The boys from Beaver Falls are out to win the game, mainly because 
of the defeat' that they suffered at Techs hands last year. The Tech 
team sh.ould not let up for the game after last Saturdays encounter, 
because the Covenanter squad is much better than local people think. 
Comparing scores in both Westminster games, Tech and Geneva are 
on the same footing, both teams being six points inferior to the Titan 
eleven. The.Kiltie, band is accompanying the team to the-game and 
quite a number of students are planning to make the trip. The Tech 
game is the Home-Coming game for Geneva, and according to press 
releases, several stunts are planned for half time and preceding the 
game.
Athletic Scholarship Drive
Every sports-minded student in the school should attempt to aid 
this drive that is being sponsored in response to student feeling, to 
improve the future athletic situation on the Tech campus.
Sharpshooters Commence 
Practice Under Sommers

---------------------------------------------------

THE CAENEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBEE 21, 1941
Evening 
School 
Section o 
Tartan
General News 
Editorial Comment 
Fraternal Organization
Appearing 
In This 
Weeks
Council Dance
Swimming Pool
IssueThe Mailbox
Campus Chatter
Gather round, gals, a new comer 
to our midst, and a very good find 
is Don VanEsson . . . Love and 
smoke cannot conceal themselves 
so why dont you fess up Steve, 
hows it going to end? . . . Chick 
Frost wants to go to England . . . 
seems he thinks it would be swell 
to bundle for Britain . . . Dick 
Lynch did a solo on Saturday night 
could it be that hes turned 
woman hater or is he just looking 
over the field?
Lost, strayed or stolen . . . Bill 
Blundonwhen last seen was wear
ing a green Chevrolet Coupere
turn to Plaid Office and receive two 
Tootsie Roll wrappers . . . The 
only way to keep a secret is to say 
nothing  so Im saying nothing 
about a certain Editors lady fair 
who doesnt like the idea of his not 
introducing her to all the other eligibles ... We have been told we 
have a great sense of rumor but 
you, gentle readers, (and also the 
not so gentle) should give out with 
a little information. How are we 
to know whats going on if we dont 
hear from you.
FOR WHOM THE BELLE TOILS 
. . . Jocelyn Pearsall took the fatal 
leap last Saturday . . . strange that 
her wedding was more important 
than the Election Party.
Aside to the Arts Students  
where were all the P. and D.s and 
Dramats at the Election Partythe 
Architects are running things again 
this year and whos to blame?
Ask to see the colored films Bill 
Hurtt took at Rolling Rocktheyre 
very nice and whats more theyre 
of the horses . . . What happened 
to Sunday . . . the neighbors stopPY35A5R 265,3 
9GCoYG53. x4 
ul VARL6 IUYD6
Straying from the walks of tra
dition, and stumbling down the 
path to necessary changes, the Nu 
Sigma Alpha Fraternity is com
pelled to postpone their opening 
dance to a later date, which at pres
ent is not known.
As many of you already know, 
the Robert B. Leighou Memorial 
Scholarship Dance has been held 
twice every year, with the main in
tention of adding funds to the al
ready established scholarship fund. 
In the past number of years, these 
affairs have been successful, with 
the fund growing rapidly.
However, this year, because of 
the overcrowded social calendar, Nu 
Sigma Alpha believes it advisable 
to hold this affair at a time when it 
is more probable that the fund may 
be increased.
Therefore, to all of you local sup
porters, we make this announce
ment. Keep watching the , paper 
and bulletin boards for the new 
date and come out to support a good 
cause. See you at the dance.
ped getting the paper and we miss
ed it .. . please help us out . . . 
At the dance on Saturday a cer
tain gentlemen, while dancing with 
your scribe let out with All This 
Meat and No Potatoes . . . what 
Id like to know . . . was that a 
compliment? . . . Remember UNITED we give._________________________
THE MAILBOX
Wherever one turns; one won
ders what the future holds in these 
troubled times. So it is also with 
that same wonder and bewilder
ment that a few olck timers at Tech 
are scratching their heads in despair 
and asking, .whats happening to 
our Evening Student Council, and 
the social program as it used to be?
In what is to be said please re
member that the writer has one 
greatest respect for the Evening 
Student Council, its rules and setup 
and the purpose for which it was 
to function, alsofor those many 
students who have done their ut
most in preserving and bettering it 
only to find out what a thankless 
effort it has been. No one remem
bers, no one cares for the fruitless 
hours some have spent in trying to 
uphold the Council as a governing 
body, for the students and by the 
students, in protecting the students 
rights and also planning an excel
lent social program whereby they 
could enjoy themselves.
It has always been the writers 
intention to support the Council and 
its activities and' help any of its .un
dertakings to be the most success
ful possible.
One looks back a few years and 
recalls vividly what a pleasure it 
was to attend an evening school 
function. It made you feel as 
though youd been somewhere and 
really had a good time. It wasnt 
any one single affair that was fine, 
it was all of them. You looked 
forward to attending them. How
ever, judging by some of the suc
cessful (?) dances held last year 
and the way things started off 
with a ,full thud this year, the fu
ture looks dark and drab. Whats 
wrong with the organization? No, 
not Council but the personnel be
hind it, those individuals who so 
speakingly represent the student 
body. One would think that they 
were riding to victory on some 
laurels long ago received. Some
one needs to be reawakened. First 
they had better do something to 
deserve sonic laurels.
Whats wrong? Whats to be 
done? What kind of an affair did 
the combined election party turn 
out to be? Maybe it was a new 
venture, yes, a most radical ven
ture. What was the Get-Acquainted dance like? Who has planned 
these affairs?
To begin with, a few individuals 
always dislike what others do, so 
the following year they aspire to 
become Council members, Theyve 
soon what has happened and could 
benefit by it if theirs was the .stu
dent's concern. But alas and alack, 
we've gotten some socially minded 
aspirants who like lo do nothing but 
sit In the driver's seat and give or
ders. Would they work? You 
answer that question to yourself. 
If the column could be uncensored the answer could be written in 
forceful language.
First to be blamed for the con
dition which exists, is the council 
membership. In aspiring for.an of
fice, theirs should have been the 
students concern, its betterment, 
both educationally and socially. It 
seems that most successful ventures 
usually start with some social affair 
and then work up to a finale. The 
most noticeable soresport has been 
the social program and the method 
in which it is handled. Everything 
is left up to the last minute, the ad
vertising, the planning and all, but 
mostly the former. Its work, per
haps is too much for some. The first 
essential factor in planning a func
tion is proper advertising. Let some 
one know that an affair is being 
scheduled, but let them know early, 
not at the last minute. Not every 
student is a beau brummel and can 
capture a fair damsel at the last 
minute. Maybe some have made 
other plans because they didnt 
know soon enough.
The best orchestra in the coun
try wont draw a crowd if no one 
knows that they will play a dance 
at a scheduled time and place. Ad
vertising is not meant to be a timid 
effort to inform the public in a hap
hazard manner, but an intensive 
campaign long enough in advance 
to allow one to make plans accord
ingly.
Perhaps the students should read 
the Handbook given them during 
registration, if they got there soon 
enough to get what few were there. 
Maybe they ought to read the news
paper, if they got it.. Mow about 
reading the signs and posters? What 
signs and posters? When? The 
Handbook states that all dates are 
liable for' change. If a student 
doesnt know that an affair is go
ing to be held, how can they know 
that it hasnt been cancelled or post
poned?
This years Get-Acqifainted 
dance held by council is a hopeless 
example of how to advertise or talk 
up a dance. With every opportun
ity for great success, a swell band 
to furnish the music, a great chance
to start off the year right and show 
the students what to expect social
ly; what was done to advertise it 
and let the student body know that 
such a treat was in,store? This ex
ample doesnt even give the new 
council a chance. Whats wrong 
with the old council?
Until such Lime as the Council 
membership can show that they are 
doing their utmost for the stu
dents, they cant blame the students 
for lack of cooperation.
When every thing humanly possi
ble has been done in this respect 
and the student does not respond, 
then it is high time to put the stu
dent. on the pan and tell him very 
forcefully that he is the slacker and 
lagging in his duties. If the Coun
cil has done its duty in supporting 
the student, then it is the students 
duty in sheer respect to support the 
Council.
We should not pass judgement on 
the coming Council yet. Ours is 
the task to help them, and theirs is 
the opportunity to benefit by all the 
past sad mistakes. To whom ever 
the shoe will fit, these remarks 
have been directed with no apolo
gies.
To the new Council, the best 
wishes for success: make the cam
pus spirit what it was of old even 
though everything else is changing, 
make this a place well love and 
cherish the thought of, make it a 
place where well meet people and 
make lasting friends, a place to 
which well be magnetically drawn.
AN OLD TIMER.
' "From time to time more articles 
will be written to point out Coun
cils fault and the students fault for 
lack of unity and cooperation.Q *
October 12, 1941.
Editor,
Carnegie Plaid.
Dear Sir:
I have just witnessed one of the 
most futile and ludicrous elections 
of student officers that was ever 
called an election.
I can see no possible reason for 
such a ridiculously small represen
tation for each college.
There was also a shamefully 
small number of persons who want
ed offices. Its a pity that more 
men and women dont want to be 
leaders.
The whole affair was a blackmark 
against evening students. It must 
be changed or we shall lose all the 
.progress weve made.
Respectfully, 
LAWRENCE B. COATES,
College of Engineering.
Youll enjoy seeing 
MARJORIE WOODWORTH 
in the current Hal Roach hit
BILLV HIKDS ORCHESTRA JOY LIND
DANCING
1/EVERY
VIEsn2Ik uHdaE
1 por porson Includas breakfast
If... like the 
All-American Girl... 
you want a cigarette
MG
HOTEL
Try a couple of packs. We feel sure 
youll be coming bock for more . . . because 
Chesterfields right combination of the worlds 
leading cigarette tobaccos makes them so 
much Milder, Cooler and Better-Tasting that 
more smokers are turning to them every day.
Yes, the approval of smokers is the big thing that's 
pushing Chesterfield ahead all over the country.
EVERYWHERE 
YOU GO
SCHENLEYCopyright 1911, Liccirr & NewS Trncct' Ccj
H5AoA6U ISS6AF 
PY35C BA13U4 
VG,A6U V36CG5
First Council Dance 
Held Last Saturday 
Was Well Attended
Saturday nights Get Together 
Dance held by Evening Student 
Council lived up, in every respect, 
to the name selected for it. Every
one seemed to be doing just that 
Getting Together. Although it 
was the first attempt to hold this 
particular type of dance the many 
expressions of approval from the 
students indicated that the idea was 
a good one. Of course, Jerry 
Greys smooth music added greatly 
to the success of the evening and 
the Songs of the ever popular Jim
mie Moore went over with a bang, 
both with those who are familiar 
with his unique style and with those 
to whom his songs are a new lis
tening pleasure.
Thistle Hall itself contributed its 
share with the bright colors of its 
autumn decorations adding a touch 
of sparkle and gayety to the occa
sion, which seemed to reflect in the 
faces of the dancers. Maybe it was 
the soft glow from the beautiful 
crystal ball shining down on them 
which made each girl a potential 
Cinderella and each boy a knight 
in armor or somethin.
Seriously though, the large at
tendance was very gratifying to 
Council and this was truly the kind 
of an affair which spurs the ambi
tion to plan for bigger and better 
things.
If this first affair of the year 
is a forerunner of events to come; 
many successful social ventures can 
be expected during the ensuing 
months, of the semester.
Lets Swim
The Waters Fine 
And No Sunburn
Why is it that a fellow will get 
more pleasure out of something that 
costs him money than out of that 
which costs him nothing? It doesnt 
make much sense but it seems to be 
the truth.
Here at Tech is one of the finest 
(if not THE finest) swimming pool 
in the city. The pool is seventy-five 
feet long and thirty-five feet wide 
plenty large enough ;to accommo
date a sizeable crowd. The mens 
and womens dressing rooms ad
joining the pool are equipped with 
lockers and showers, and in the 
womens locker room are facilities 
for drying wet hairwhat could be 
more convenient? Towels are pro
vided tooask the attendant.
Your fee for all this? Simply 
your registration card . . . evidence 
that you are a student of the Car
negie Tech evening school.
The main reason for this article is 
to emphasize the fact that the pool 
is NOT being used enough by the 
night school students. Where can 
you spend a pleasanter evening than 
in the swimming pool? Whats 
more, on Wednesday evenings 
theres mixed swimming from 6:30 
to 11:00 P. M. That means men 
and women.
Why not reserve your Wednesday 
evenings and come down to the pool 
for an evenings fun? Youll meet 
people, (everybodys friendly at the 
swimming pool) and have a barrel 
of fun besides. Try it once and its 
our bet youll come again.__________
Industries To 
Hold 1st Dance
The opening dance for the Even
ing College of Industries is sched
uled to be held Saturday, Novem
ber 1, in the Gymnasium.
A popular band is being engaged 
for this affair, and will be an
nounced in the next edition. It is 
known from previous Industries 
socials, that it will deserve com
mendation.
Student Council workers are 
making plans for decorating the 
Gym, and are contemplating hav
ing flowers for the fair ladies.
There is no better way to get 
acquainted with your -fellow class
mates than by showing enthusiasm 
and giving support to this dance. 
Admission: Old Faithful (Indus
tries registration card), and your 
best girl.
Coming early will enable you to 
dance every dance and make the 
evening longer.
Heres wishing you an unforgetta
ble evening.
BIN VAHlNR3N USA36
Page edited by Evening School 
Students of Carnegie Institute of 
Technology. All views or opin
ions expressed in editorial column 
are not necessarily. endorsed by the 
Editorial Board ofthe Day School 
Staff.
Editor 
James H. Miller 
News Editor 
Adeline King 
Associate Editors 
Anna June Davidson 
Francis Lacny 
Nancy E. Lewis 
Staff
Lawrence Coates Kathryn Schwartz
John Hopkins Ronald E. ShofT
G. William Hurtt Emmett Shutes
Robert C. King Stanley Stolarczyk
Stephen Marcinizyn Frank J. Young
____________ David W. Pettigrew______________
