Spring
CarnivalGamegitartan
Souvenir
Issue
VOL. 41No. 23CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, MAY 18, 1948
Ole Will9 Scores Carnival Success
Threatening Weather Lifts 
To Provide Biggest Holiday
Dances In 
Spirit Of 
Carnival
Friday Informal 
As Midway; All 
Cozy Saturday 
Friday NightSkitch Henderson night, the Fri
day half of Carnivals dance pro
gram, was informal in more than 
dress. The atmosphere was itself 
an extension of the midway, exhilirating as a ride on the octopus, 
spontaneous as the reaction to the 
lucky spin of a wheel.
For decoration and theme, huge 
fun-house like masks and bigger 
than life sketches lined the walls. 
Bizarre green and white figures 
stared coldly down on the hap
penings of the evening.
Even in Thistle hall, a different 
world with air to breathe and 
space to move in, one looked up 
to streamers of yellow balloons 
and around at colorful Totem 
Poles along the walls.
Speaking of refreshments, it was 
gratifying to find an organized 
and well-stocked dispensing bar 
in operation.
The eternal problem of accoustics cropped up as per usual. Too 
many people had to couple imagi
nation with the intermittent drum 
beats that filtered through to the 
far end of the gym.
A too generous application of 
dance wax enlivened the evening 
by making the footing just slight
ly precarious. Quick turns and 
dips became stumbling slides. 
Some must have thought often of 
requesting the Skaters Waltz.
Saturday NightOn Saturday night, the gym 
witnessed a seasonal clash. White 
summer tuxes vs. penquins blacks. 
The thermoneter voted black but 
Carnival spirit rebelled. Girls, 
too, split into factions with a 
grand melee of black crepe and flimsy laces.
The same bizarre decorations 
that lined the walls on Friday 
night looked on a different scene. 
They saw all the evidences of a 
climax to Carnival weekend, those 
three-day dates culminating in 
cozy twos-a-crowd scenes. Group 
and general activity suffered as 
couples investigated the myster
ies of noses, particular noses.
Perhaps, just perhaps, the 
ethereal tempo of Elliot Lawrence 
was a contributing factor. Maybe 
it was the throaty Nature Boy 
voice of his Mr. Vocalist.
Taken aback somewhat, on late 
entrance, by the wall to wall ex
panse of heads and shoulders and 
backs, it was pleasant to find 
dancing space at something less 
than a premium. Utilization of 
the entire gym floor made it pos
sible to move with not too many scraped ankles.
The more timorous escaped to 
Thistle hall and munched potato 
chips. Casualties for the more 
hardy were few in number and 
of little consequence. Except of 
course unless one considers the tragedy of a faulty zipper in a 
cute little, tight little gown on
* cute little, tight little girl.
Eddie Edmonds gives Queen Castner the royal scepterJune Castner 
Chosen Queen
Neubert Named Most 
Promising Engineer
An over-capacity crowd of 600 
people witnessed the Call Day 
ceremonies and Coronation exer
cises in the Little Theater on Fri
day afternoon, May 14. Highlight
ing the event was the crowning of 
June Castner of Delta Gamma 
sorority as Queen of the carnival 
by master of ceremonies Louis 
Edmonds.
The most promising senior en
gineer awary was given to Ver
non Herbert Neubert of Beta 
Theta Pi fraternity. Dr. Webster 
Newton Jones, director of the en
gineering college, presented him 
with a plaque, an $1100 Tau Beta 
Pi fellowship, and a post-graduate 
tuition scholarship.
Exceptionally active in extra
curricular work, Vernon is a mem
ber of Scimitar, Delta Skull, ODK, 
Theta Tau, and Tau Beta Pi.
The audience was entertained 
by Miss Mary Elizabeth Davis, a 
young lady of nine, who perform
ed the Scotch sword dance, ac
companied by Gino Marco on the 
bagpipes.
The Mens Glee club under the 
direction of Mr. William Schaffer 
sang Brothers Sing On, Steal 
Away, and Wake Thee Now 
Dearest.
[Continued on page 8]
SnS Back Stage 
In Usual Hurry 
On Opening Night
by John H. Malloy
[Ed. Note: The story of Scotch and 
Sodas The Ladys at Work is 
composed of two parts: the show 
itself, which is reviewed on page 
two by critic Marty Dorff, and the 
reactions of the people in the 
show, here related by one of the 
members of the cast.]
Attention! All members of the 
cast . . . Attention!
The speaker in the mens dress
ing room was making sense above 
the static background. Men crowd
ed around in all stages of undress 
and in every degree of makeup. 
The small wooden box continued 
in a ^mysterious and secretive 
drone, The house is now open. 
The theater is filling. The ticket 
sales show a large audience to
night. This is opening, kids. Lets 
get out there and sell them the 
show. Thats all. Good luck. And 
listen for announcements.
Some of the engineers were a 
little reluctant about appearing in 
their shorts before the makeup girl and the costume girl, but they 
dropped their inhibitions quickly 
and thanked God for the girls 
when it came time later for some 
of those inevitably quick, between-the-scenes costume chang
es.
The makeups were for the most 
part completed now. Foreheads 
were being touched up where per
spiration had thinned the pancake. 
Men were combing before the
Winsome Will has done him in
mirrors above the makeup tables, 
looking over others shoulders and 
under others arms to see. The 
dressing room began to acquire 
that dressed in look, with clothes 
and Kleenex strewn on the tables, 
and occasionally en the-floor
A certain nervousness was ap
parent in the aimless pacing and 
frequent trips to the makeup-spat
tered water fountain tucked into a 
corner near the door by those who 
were soon to make their virgin 
plunge into the bright lights.
The upper-class dramats were 
doing and saying just the right 
[Continued on page 5]
Synchrocyclotron Redesigned 
For Higher Energy Output
The synchocyclotron has been redesigned to provide an energy 
output of over 400,000,000 volts, announced President Robert E. 
Doherty today.
The increase from the previously planned 350,000,000 volts was 
necessitated by the recent discovery at the University of Califor
nia that mesons probably cannot4 
be produced by collisons between 
protons much below the 350 milVarsity Varieties Play 
To Enthusiastic House
by A. Starke Drischell
At twelve-thirty, just after the noon hour on Saturday, the 
Little Theatre lobby in Fine Arts was all but vacant. Only an oc
casional straggler drifted noiselessly over the marble floors.
But an hour later, at one-thirty on that same Saturday after
noon, there was no longer any vacant space,
It was the Saturday of Spring Carnival, and Varsity Varieties
had invaded the Little Theatre. 
Holiday spirits ran high. When
lion volt level.
This increase in output has been 
made possible through additional 
support from the U. S. Office of 
Naval Research and the Atomic 
Energy Commission.
Among the design changes re
quired to yield the new output 
are increases in the diameter of 
the electromagnetic poles from 130 
to 145 inches, and of the weight 
of the forgings used for the poles 
and their framework from 1081 
to 1465 tons.
Bulletin
WCIT Off Air
Campus radio station WCIT is 
off the air on FCC orders until 
further notice. The field strength 
of its transmitter was reported 
sufficiently high to interfere ser
iously with the reception of sta
tion WAVL, on 910 kc, located in 
Appolo, Pennsylvania. WCIT is 
expected to resume its broadcast
ing schedule as soon as this sit
uation has been corrected. Notice 
of this event wjJl be published in 
the Tartan, .
occasionally someone walked across the stage he was treated 
to a blast of applause. And by 
the time the orchestra began the 
show with a jazzy version of All 
of Me, the anticipation of the 
audience was at a high voltage 
peak.One sketch followed another: 
short melodramas, a fashion par
ade, ministris, a vaudeville re
view, each production industri
ously worked out.For an hour and a half the show 
went on, and when it was all over 
Alpha Epsilon Phi was the winner 
with its melodrama and Chi Ome
ga had placed second with a min
strel show. The skits were some
times good, sometimes not, but 
they were always appreciated.
Nobody was looking for a 
Broadway production. They were 
looking for some solid informal 
entertainment with planned 
laughs and unplanned laughs. 
That was what they got, and thats 
what they ljked.
Kappa Sigma, 
Delts Sweep 
All Contests
Spring Carnival week-end, 
Winsome Will Hawkins 
gift of good times and weary 
bones, is over.
After a prelude of four per
formances of Scotch and Soda 
and an overture of a few hours 
of Midway on Thursday night, the 
big event overcame uncertain 
weather to become an almost un
qualified success.
It was a particularly good holi
day for the men of Delta Tau 
Delta and Kappa Sigma, the ath
letic Delts winning the Sweep
stakes speed cup and the canoe 
tilt, and the artistic Kappa Sigs 
winning both the Float Parade 
and the Sweepstakes design tro
phies.
Alpha Epsilon Phi produced the 
winning Varsity Varieties skit.
Queen June Castner and her 
court of seven presided as the 
honoraries called activities men 
and women and scholars assorted 
to their ranks and Vernon Neu
bert was named Most Promising 
Senior Engineer by Theta Tau.
Skitch Henderson and Elliot 
Lawrence were as good as promis
ed on Friday and Saturday nights.
The Midway glowed brilliantly 
as the social and even the honor
ary organizations were out in 
force to spray the Cut with bark
ers cries, raucous music, and the 
sweetish smells of very mixed 
confections and refreshments.
The unexpectedly* great finan
cial success scored by many of 
the organizational booths provided 
an exhilirating finale which will 
make the 1948 Spring Carnival 
long remembered.
Assisting General Chairman 
Hawkins on the Carnival Com
mittee were: D. Wright, Call Day 
and Coronation; W. Poirier, Ca
noe Tilt; W. Meyers, Concessions;
B. Perlman and C. Tomashoff, 
Decorations; L. Johnson, Midway;
I. Faigan, Orchestra and Dance;
E. Von Halle, Parade; T. Ulrich, 
Program; A. Yorkin, Publicity; T. 
Hall, Sweepstakes; W. Bourke, 
Tickets and V. OBrien, Varsity 
Varieties.
Yon Halle New Editor Of Cano
Alan Stark Re-elected 
As Managing Editor
Edward Von Halle has been 
elected editor of Cano magazine. 
Formerly associate editor of the 
literary magazine, he is a member 
of Kappa Sigma fraternity, and a 
senior management engineer.
Alan Stark was re-elected man
aging editor and Richard Cutkosky was promoted to the position 
of features editor. Taking the po
sitions of art editor and layout 
editor were Andrew Warhola and Robert Atkins respectively. Albert 
Kiefer is in charge of publicity 
and Allan Poe is advertising man
ager. Elaine Sobol became circu
lation manager.

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MAY 18, 1948
CarnegieiEartan
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes St., Pittsburgh, Pa. TELEPHONE: SC. 4557; after hours EM. 7556, EM. 9424. 
Published weekly during the school year, except holidays
nd examination periods, by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Editor-in-Chief ......................... ......................... Hubert I. AaronsonBusiness Manager ............................................ Edward F. Friedman
Associate Editor ..............................................................Anthony ArrottPersonnel Manager ............................................... Jay H. Johnson
News EditorBurton Epstein, FeaturesGerald E. Peck, 
Chief Copy EditorRobert W. Johnson, Sports EditorWilliam Schnitgen, Makeup EditorRobert Cloud, Art Editor Russel F. Kulberg, Asst. Business ManagerSamuel Moses, Advertising ManagerMartin S. Miller, Circulation Manager Otto Abraham.Copy EditorPat Petrick, Headline EditorMyra-Jane Bar
ry, Proof EditorJohn Braun, Makeup Asst.Francis Cody, Chief ReportersWilliam Johns, Bennard Perlman, Freder
ick C. Price, Mildred Teague, Alphonse Toppeto, Joseph Weinreich, Chief Sports ReporterBill Dorn, Chief PhotographerWilliam D. Benswanger.
Copy StaffMary Cauffield, Robert Heckert, Analee Gel- man, John Helmick, Thomas Murray.
Features StaffRobert Charpie, A. Starke Drischell, Martin Dorff, Carl Klahr.Senior ReporterF. R. Johnson, ReportersAinslie Bricker, Jo Crisanti, William Feeman, Frances Hamborsky, Camilla Hawthorne, Bea Patterson, Angelia Pollis, Ruby Weisberg. Cob ReportersMarvin Bachman, Hilda Chottiner, Ina Jean Cohen, Jane Conner, Bee Potter, Catherine Rudy, Marian 
Schrag, Anita Tambellini, Nancy Will.Sports StaffWarren Lithgow, Robin Molney.Photography StaffRichard Deininger, Ames Penfield. Advertising StaffShirlee Goldenfeld, Marilyn Frykdahl, 
Leonard Smollen, Dave Stevenson, Circulation StaffMilton Sniderman, Malcolm Samakow, Dave Steiner, Louis Stern
berg, Herbert Stone.SecretaryVirginia Steinbach, TypistsHelen Brody, Betty 
Jane Baur.
Represented for national advertising by NATIONAL ADVER
TISING, Inc., College Publishers Representative, 420 Madison 
Ave., New York City. Subscription $1.10 per year.
Entered as second class matter on Oct. 4, '.s)07 at the 
Post Office at Pittsburgh, Pa., under the Act of March 3, 
1879. Accepted for mailing at special rate at postage pro
vided fo_- in the Act of February 28, 1925. Authorized Octo
ber 21, 1918.
Editorial
Objective Incorrect
As we begin our last editorial, we find our
selves less than confident about the future of 
both the Tartan and publications as a whole.
This lack of confidence arises almost en
tirely from the effects of :the general offensive 
which was launched at the beginning of this 
year against the entire publications position by 
the Student Publications Advisor, Mr. Antho
ny Antin.
Apparently believing that virtually the sole 
purpose of CIT publications is to achieve a 
high standard of excellence, he has proposed 
and will continue to press such concepts as 
managing boards to govern individual publi
cations (in which the top officers of the pub
lications would have a minority voice,) and 
the high-powered talk held at frequent inter
vals in his oflSce, during wrhich advice on 
all manner of minutae is vigorously delivered.
While we are aware that Mr. Antin has 
much to contribute in the way of technical ad
vice to the Tartan and perhaps to some of 
the other publications, wre believe that the 
ferreting out of such information is largely in 
the field of the publications officers. Any en
gineering student with the necessary basic ap
titudes who cannot solve the elementary Eng
lish and printing problems encountered in pub
lications is making poor use indeed of his 
training engineering methodologies.
The advice that is seriously needed is on 
questions of judgment and good taste. And this 
advice is unacceptable wrhen put, despite pro
testations to the contrary, in command form, 
and when the advisor does not enjoy the con
fidence of the person advised.
We hope that Mr. Antin will put an end 
to his present attempts to reorganize student 
publications from their present student-ini
tiated changes in organization, to remove pub
lications from their present student control, 
and to exert a constant and detailed influence 
upon them.
Such measures will not Improve publica
tions, but will rather drive from their staffs 
the aggressive leaders who are making CIT 
publications among the best in the country. 
Exercising the liberal powers wrhich a wise 
administration has invested in them, these men 
and their co-workers are making of publica
tions an activity which is worthwhile not only 
from the recreational but from the educational 
point of view in the modern, Carnegie Tech 
sense of the word.
On Stage
by Marty Dorff
I make the following comment on The Ladys 
at Work with considerable reluctance. First, as a 
matter of school pride it would be gratifying to 
compare Scotch and Soda with Penns Mask and 
Wig or Princetons Triangle. Second, I realize that 
an enormous amount of talent plus sheer sweat has 
been selflessly contributed by scores of busy stu
dents. To do otherwise than praise the produc
tion makes one almost an Alma Matricide.
Yet, to speak the unvarnished truth, this years 
Scotch and Soda was most disappointing. Last 
years effort, starting almost from scratch in point 
of experience and material resources, achieved a 
resounding popular success; it was to be expected 
that this years would be so much the better for 
the success of last years. The sad fact is, however, 
that the present edition surpasses its predecessor 
only in lavishness.
The root of the trouble is the music. It is plain 
downright dull, with very few exceptions. It 
strains mightily to keep from saying the obvious; 
rather than say the obvious, it says nothing at 
all. We have come a long way since the days of 
The Mikado and The Student Prince, but a 
musical still must stand or fall on its musicfancy 
clothes cant dress a tune up very much.
The book is notoriously uninspired, even for a 
musical. The situations are contrived in a most 
heavy-handed way: the protagonists wander aim
lessly through innumerable scenes, while several 
animated mannequins skulk about in a plot that 
has no place to go and takes its own sweet time 
getting there. Of course, we have become condi
tioned to tolerate absurd books as the standard con
vention in musicals, but this we are willing to do 
only as long as the music itself is strong enough 
to distract the attention from the story.
The lyrics are a different matter; those that I 
could make out sounded very clever. They were the 
only satisfactory part of the show.
Even the dance routines, which are few and far 
between, are pedestrian in conception and execu
tion. Of course the smallness of the stage offers 
quite a problem; on the other hand, why insist on 
jamming the stage to the walls with choirsters and 
dancers?
To top it off, the production was inordinately 
long. Even with a good musical it is dangerous to 
send the audience away slightly surfleited; they 
should always leave wanting just a little more. 
Perhaps the songs would not have seemed so dull, 
had they been less profuse and lengthy.
The last straw was the unforgiveably poor 
sound system. It alone would have been enough 
to sabotage the production. A good bit of the first 
act was inaudible; the remainder of the perform
ance was alternately boxy, tinny, or blasting. It 
seems to me that such a defection is inexcusable, 
particularly in an organization of theater-wise per
sonnel, who fully expect and desire to be judged 
by professional standards.
[Continued on page 6]
Carnival Chairman and S9nS HeadTwo of the Boys
Old Carnival Was 
Campus Week
by Kenneth Reed
Our Spring Carnival has a history almost as 
long as the schools. Born in 1920 under the name 
of Campus Week, it was intended to be an alumni 
reunion. The plans were so pretentious, however, 
that the aid of the students was enlisted, result
ing in an occasion which became more of a stu
dent than an alumni affair.
The first Campus Week lasteci three days. Be
ginning with a General Assembly, it progressed 
through Tap Day exercises, baseball games, a 
circus, a dance, and band concerts to be closed 
with a smoker and Alumni banquets on Saturday 
evening. This Campus Week also saw the innova
tion of the Sweepstakes Race. The buggies were re
quired to have four wheels and a two-man team 
which alternated in pushing and driving. In addi
tion, the rear wheels had to be interchangeable 
and during the race each buggy was driven into 
the pit where its wheels were exchanged.
The following year saw a vaudeville show re
place the Assembly, and in 1922 the Campus Queen 
festivities originated. This led to a Coronation Ball 
on Thursday evening of Campus Week.
Then the inevitable happened! In 1929 the Ad
ministration abolished Campus Week because it 
had become too muph of a student affair and took 
too much time from studies. The following year, 
however, a student vote produced a modified re
vival of the celebration vaguely resembling our 
Spring Carnival.
[Continued on page 6]
Wilton Hawkins
by Richards Hotchkiss
For the past month, one en
gineer has been just a little more 
tired than the rest. You prob
ably saw him hurrying across the 
Cut, holding an impromptu con
ference in Skibo, looking for one 
of his many co-workers on the 
Spring Carnival committee at the 
Inn, talking with a member of 
the administration in the hall, or 
perhaps occasionally in class.
He was Will Hawkins, General 
Chairman of the Spring Carnival, 
whose nominal major is mechan
ical engineering and whose actual 
major has been Carnival this se
mester. The task of incorporating 
the hundreds of good but conflict
ing ideas into the Carnival has 
taxed Wills diplomatic powers, 
but not his good nature or his 
slightly irreverent sense of hu
mor. When all else fails, he turns 
on the Hawkins smilewhich is 
half way between the double and 
the triple whammy.
Conservative Chap
Winsome Will, as the Tartan 
has so aptly dubbed him, is ad
dicted to conservative clothes and 
apparently has only four ties. He 
proably has more, but they all 
look alike, cause when Will likes 
a tie, he buys a couple more just 
like it.
His Southern background is 
shown further in his preference 
of bourbon over beer, but not to 
the extent that he shies from beer 
parties or steers clear of the 
Greeks.Hawkins, through some strange 
chance, owns three guitars, two of 
which he would be glad to see 
for a nominal price. His room 
mates at the ATO house will 
gladly give the other one away. 
However, he was good enough to 
appear as guest artist on WCIT 
where he barely scratched the 
surface of his repertoire of hillybilly music.
Will Is Active
Aside from his activity on the 
Spring Carnival, Country Boy, 
as some call him, has found time 
for other things. His modest list 
includes Omicron Delta Kappa, 
Theta Tau, Pi Tau Sigma, Tau 
Beta Pi, and the usual societies. 
He played intramural football, 
basketball, and volleyball and 
claims a fair game of golf.
Will started off at the Univer
sity of Kentucky, but the Army 
got him for three years and then 
he came North to CIT. He likes 
it so well up here that he thinks 
he will stay in Yankee land.
Rumor has it that because of 
Wills antipathy towards getting 
up early in the morning, he is 
going into business for himself. He 
doesnt really start functioning 
until noon, but then he rolls on 
until two in the morning.
He has June 27 (Graduation) 
morked off on his calendar as 
Hawkins Hey Day and that fis 
his number one objective right 
now.
David Crantz
by Ernest Lowenstein
Would you like to be in charge 
of an organization with more than 
two hundred members, a seven 
thousand dollar budget, and in
terests which take you from un
ion headquarters to city desks and 
radio studios
Or would you prefer the life of 
a drama student with major pro
ductions in the Little Theater, 
one-acts in the Studio, classes, a 
thesis to be written and exams to 
be taken?
Crantz Does Everything
But then you may choose to be 
the writer and star of a weekly 
show on a local radio station, with 
a different (and reasonably origi
nal) script to be written each 
week, rehearsals, last minute 
changes, and performances which 
always turn out to be a few sec
onds short or long.
There is much to be said for any 
one of these occupations. An ex
ceptionally energetic and ambi
tious person may even be able to 
handle two. David. Crantz does all 
three, and the most amazing thing 
about this feat is that he accom
plishes it cheerfully enough to be 
not only one of the best known 
people on campus (that seems in
evitable) but also one of the best 
liked. Among hosts of dramats 
whose only interest is to be dif
ferent, and even more engineers 
who have no interest at all, Crantz 
stands out by just being his nat
ural self.
S n S Come First
He is a drama student, a mem
ber of ODK and the Student Con
ference committeebut all this is 
almost incidental to his more than 
full-time occupation as the chair
man of Scotch n Sodas Execu
tive board. Ever since last June 
he has spent a large part of his 
time preparing for The Ladys at 
Work, and during the last month 
he has done this virtually to the 
exclusion of all else. It would take 
more than one issue of the Tartan 
to list even a part of the hun
dreds of things he had to do to 
put a show of the magnitude of 
The Ladys At Work on stage. 
There were countless trips to 
newspapers and radio stations to 
line up publicity, appearances be
fore clubs and other organizations 
to sell tickets, negotiations with 
unions, suppliers, school officials 
. . . and last, but certainly not 
least, the major job of running the 
Scotch n Soda club and seeing 
that everything was done in time.
It would be nice to close this 
account by mentioning some of 
Davids ideas for his futurebut 
he has not had the time even to 
think about this, let alone make 
any plans. But rarely has there 
been around here anyone combin
ing such abilities with such a ter
rific personalityand just as this 
was recognized at CIT, we are 
confident that it will be wher
ever David Crantz goes from here.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MAY 18, 1948THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
Delta Tau Delta buggy flashes across the finish line just ahead 
of the Kappa Sigma racer to win the Sweepstakes championship.* * * 
by Frank Roth
Every year that there has been a Carnival at CIT there has 
been presented as one of the major attractions a Sweepstakes race. 
This event, known popularly as the buggy race, has had several 
changes incorporated into the rules since its advent in 1920.
In the first years of the Sweepstakes all buggies had to have 
four wheels and a two-man team which alternated at driving and 
pushing. This increased the time necessary to complete, and the 
records made in the first years are not nearly as good as the ones 
in recent years. One of the peculiar features of the earliest races 
was that the two rear wheels had to be interchangeable, and during 
each race the buggy was driven into a pit where the wheels were 
changed.
The race this past weekend* 
drew, as always, a large crowd of 
excited spectators. White lines 
were painted the length of Mar
garet Morrison street in front of 
the gymnasium and on Frew 
street, dividing the streets into 
three lanes. A jeep patrolled the 
streets carrying the starter and 
announcer who used a PA system.
Ropes were stretched along the 
sidewalks in an effort to keep the 
spectators out of the way of the 
drivers, and the jeep and a motor
cycle policeman drove up and 
down the sidelines forcing the 
crowd back onto the pavement.
There were no mishaps in the 
races this year although BSP was 
disqualified in the first race be
cause the pusher let go of the 
buggy before he crossed the finish 
line. There was no protest on this 
action since their time was not 
fast enough to qualify for the 
finals.
DTD, with Dick Stanley driving 
and Barry Rowles pushing in the 
final lap, carried away the honors 
both in the preliminary race, 
where their time was 2:51, and in 
the finals, where they nosed out 
the Kappa Sigs with a startling 
2:48, thus breaking their own rec
ord established in the prelimi
naries.
It appears that the Delts were 
really concentrating upon winning 
the Sweepstakes and after putting 
everything they had into their 
buggys construction they were 
quite confident about the outcome 
of the race. This would seem to 
be the case since I and a few other 
people I know were taken on 
small wagers by Delts whose 
hearts wouldnt melt butter.
events of Spring Carnival was the 
Parade of Champions and the 
presentation of trophies on Sat
urday afternoon.
Carnival Queen June Castner 
made the awards, assisted by Davil Crantz. She was awarded the 
cup denoting first place in the 
Sweepstakes to Delta Tau Delta 
fraternity, with Kappa Sigma re
ceiving an honorable mention for 
second place, less than a second 
behind the winners 2:48. Kappa 
Sigma,' however, received first 
prize in the buggy design com
petition for their streamlined 
aluminum creation.
The Delts and the Kappa Sigs 
walked off with the honors in the 
Canoe Tilt also, the Delts taking 
first place and the Kappa Sigs 
second.
Also adroning the Kappa Sig 
mantle will be the trophy for float 
design. ATO took second place 
and Sigma Nu third.
The Varsity Varieties had been 
held just previous to the Parade 
of Champions and the announce
ment of Alpha Epsilon Phi as the 
winner of that event climaxed the 
afternoon. The Chi Omega min
strel show won honorable men
tion.
Kappa Sigma Wins Float Cup; 
ATO Campaign Special, Second
by Kenneth Reed
On Friday morning with the unusual promptness the Parade of 
Floats led by the Kiltie Band started down Margaret Morrison 
street. Faithful followers of the Plaid showed their patriotism by 
standing in a light downpour to cheer the floats that were not wash
ed-out.
Heading the column was the Beta float showing a lovely mani
kin basking in the sun under a Pittsburgh palm tree. Approaching 
the island, blissfully unaware of the rain, was Jim Anderson in an
Machinery Hall to Machinery Holethe prize-winning 
Kappa Sigma Float.
The Delta 'Tau Delta and Delta Upsilon fraternities clashed 
in their selection of floats in that they both had the same idea. 
The Delts had a Chinese Dragon while the DUs had a Bookworm. 
Both were made up of brothers trying to see where they were going, 
but the crepe paper on the DTD dragon wasnt waterproofed so
?they had an easier time.
The Pi Kappa Alphas had their
The Church Of The Redeemer
(Episcopal)
5700 Forbes Street 
HUGH S. CLARK, RECTOR
 H---------------------
SUNDAY SERVICES
Holy Communion .................................................................. 8 a. m.
Morning Prayer and Sermon .......................................... 11 a* m.
(Holy Communion on 1st Sunday of Month at 11 a. m.) 
Service on the first Sunday of every month, in the Parish 
House, followed by Canterbury Club Meeting.
; also:
Every Thursday at Carnegie Inn (11:301:30) 
 H---------------------
All Students Welcome
Desire which proved to be a 
Toonerville Trolley. Then as a 
sign of our times we saw the 
ATOs take second prize with their 
Presidential float. They had all 
the candidates for the President 
talking at once on the back of 
their truck. It was timely but, 
since none of them passed out free 
beer, we still dont know whom 
we should vote for.
The Tau Delts nearly missed the 
parade, but if you were still lin
gering around you would have 
seen their Beer Mug. It seems 
they had trouble with an axle.
Far and away the most impres
sive float in the parade was that 
[Continued on page 6]
Delts, Kappa Sigs Win 
Race, Design Trophies
Cups Awarded 
At Parade 
Of Champions
by Kenneth Reed
Climaxing the competitive
Delts Dip Kappa Sigs 
In Heated Canoe Tilt
by Frank Roth
The Spring Carnival Canoe Tilt held in Panther Hollow creat
ed quite a splash last Saturday morning.
The preliminary contests opened with Delta Tau Delta winning 
the first tilt from Beta Sigma Rho, followed by a Beta Theta Pi vic
tory over Citcom Clan. Both of these were garden variety contests, 
the victories being obtained by falls in which neither canoe nor 
riders were sunk. The spectators therefore applauded heartily when
Bud Aten, the Delta Upsilon tilt-< 
er belabored the be jabbers out 
of the Altha Tau Omega tilter, 
forcing him into the water and 
swamping the ATO boat in the 
process.
The Phi Kaps were entered 
against the Tau Delts in the fourth 
contest of the day. The first time 
the two canoes engaged the Phi 
Kappa tilter was thrown off bal
ance and quite a bit of water was 
shipped into his canoe. From then 
on the Tau Delts could have re
laxed. The Phi Kap canoe shipped 
more water on every stroke of the 
paddle, and it finally sank before 
another engagement could be join
ed.
Bill Smith, a Sigma Nu pledge 
with an aggressive tilting stance 
designed to strike fear into the 
hearts of his opponents, knocked 
the TX tilter back into his canoe 
but the encounter was called a 
by, or non-encounter. Appar
ently irked by the judges deci
sion, Smith dumped both canoe 
and contents in the next engage
ment. Campbell Scott, a Canadian 
who has spent a good deal of time 
in boats, was the second man in
the SN canoe.
Both the PiKAs and Kappa 
Sigs won their first preliminary 
bouts on forfeits. The PiKAs were 
then up Panther Hollow without 
a paddle when Kappa Sigma over
turned their canoe. Highberger, 
Carnegie Techs fullback last year 
and PiKA tilter, proved himself 
extremely versatile, turning in a 
fine job of distance swimming in 
pursuit of the lost paddle.
In the semi-finals Abe Hopper, 
the Delt tilter, sank the DU canoe. 
The DU tilter Bud Aten, attempt
ed to dunk Hoper also, but was 
just forced further down into the 
mud when Hopper placed his pole 
on Atens chest and pushed. The 
crowd applauded when Hopper 
reached down and pulled Aten 
into the Delts canoe.
The Kappa Sigs won from the 
Tau Delts on two fouls, the first 
being scored when the Tau Delt 
tilter attempted to batter the Kap
pa Sigma into insensibility. The 
judges decided that this constitut
ed a foul, apparently believing 
that while it was all right to knock 
the KS tilter into the drink, they 
[Continued on page 6]
College Spirit Can 
Brighten Midway
Students Efforts Have Made 
Carnival Something Special
by A. Starke Drischell
At Carnegie Tech there is a stretch of grass that connects 
the outside world with the campus. It is not an ordinary stretch 
of grass. It is a couple hundred yards long, in fact, and be
sides being known to every person who ever goes to or through 
CIT, it has the distance of changing its name during the
course of the year. 4
Most of the year it is called 
The Cut and serves as a pedes
trian thoroughfare, a sports field, drill field, and general walkaround field.
But then in the springtime it 
changes its name for a few days 
from The Cut to the Midway 
and becomes the focal center of 
a collegiate fling time called 
Spring Carnival.
Noisy with barkers voices 
booming over PA systems, miling crowds wandering from booth 
to booth, and game to game, and 
backgrounded by delightfully fa
miliar calliope music from the 
merry-go-round, Midway is a 
unique carnival all by itself.
And unique carnival is the 
term. For Midway is not just an 
ordinary carnival such as one 
sees in the country or in small 
towns. From the distance it looks 
like an ordinary carnival right 
enough, but from up close it is 
something more. It is a college 
carnival, and individual in its at
mosphere and purpose.
The ferris wheel is there; the 
merry-go-round is there ;the 
spinning octopus is there; the cot
ton candy is there; and something 
else is there.
College spirit is there.
Like the spice that makes the 
recipe right, the college spirit is 
there. A ring of booths close in 
the area, and each booth is run by 
one of the organizations on the 
campus; fraternities, sororities, 
the dormitory combine, they all 
have their booths and their at
tractions.One has a game of skill such 
as the bowling ball swinging on 
a rope which challenges people
Midway aglow on Saturday night.
to knock over a bowling pin, or 
the breaking of balloons with 
darts, or the shooting over of 
wooden blocks. Another has a 
game of chancebetting on num
bers on a flashing light board.
Just like any other carnival you 
say? But wait. Remember these 
booths are run by the students 
themselves; remember that the 
crowds playing the games of 
chance and skill know the people 
running the booths, and also real
ize that the people playing the 
games are motivated by a differ
ent objective than merely winning 
prizes. They are enjoying them
selves because they know the 
the profits made from the games 
go back into the organizations of 
the school. The carnival is the 
colleges own.

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MAY 18, 19$
Heiland Leads Eleven Against Dukes
Paul Offermans
Tartan Football Squad 
To Tackle Eight Game 
Schedule Next Fall
While taking in one of the spring football sessions over in 
the bowl last week, our thoughts wandered ahead to next falls 
gridiron schedule which finds the Tartans tackling an eight 
game schedule in search of their first win since 1942.
Coach Donohoe will unveil the 1948 Plaid squad out in 
St. Louis against Washington University on October 2. Wash
ington is not a new name on the Carnegie football schedule. 
Quite a while back, in 1929 to be exact, the Skibos whitewashed 
the Missourians 33-0.
On last years record of five wins and three setbacks, 
however, Washington will probably reign as favorites in this 
game. Last season they registered one sided wins over Oberlin 
and Arkansas State before bowing to a strong Western Michi
gan outfit by one TD.
After the opener with Washington, CIT will make its lo
cal debut at Forbes Field against Marietta. Meeting Marietta 
will mark the first time these two teams have played each 
other since 1909 and Carnegie will be looking for its initial 
win in three starts against the Ohio school. In fact they will 
be trying for their first score since they were shut out in 
1908 and 1909.
A third newcomer on the local pigskin calendar for next 
fall is Franklin and Marshall, which turned in a good record 
last year in a tough league which included such teams as Muh
lenberg and Delaware. In past games with F & M, the Plaid 
chalked up easy victories in 1909 and 1940, so on next October 
16 they will be striving to keep that perfect record intact.
The remaining five games find the Tartans pitted against 
familiar opponents from the tri-state area, .four of them be
ing holdovers from last year. Washington & Jefferson brings 
a football rivalry to Forbes Field which dates back to 1906, 
Carnegies first year in intercollegiate competition.
The Skibos have not fared too well with the Presidents, 
being able to make the win column in only three of the 22 
contests since the series began. Five of the games have ended 
in deadlocks.
Case, Lehigh and Grove City are other rivals of long stand
ing which will be taking the field against Carnegie. The Tar
tans will in all probability be pointing for the Case game. A 
win over the Roughriders will go a long way toward avenging
[Continued on page 5]
Scrimmage Ends 
Spring Grid Drills
Helland Shines As He Runs, Throws 
Passes To Williamson, Sommers
By Paul Offerman
With Jerry Helland, star freshman back of last years team 
leading the way with his accurate jump passes to Johnny Wil
liamson and Bobby Sommers, the Carnegie Tech grid squad 
polished off its spring drills with an hour-long scrimmage 
against the Duquesne Dukes in the Skibo Bowl on Tuesday 
afternoon, May 11.
? Only a handful of students turn
ed out for the clash between Kas 
Kovalchecks Hilltoppers and Bill 
Donohoes Tartan grldders in the 
humid, summerlike atmosphere.
Donohoe lined up eleven vet
erans from last years team 
against the Dukes while Kovalcheck brought along his first team 
and reserves. However, the weath
er conditions made impossible any 
appraisal of the Tartans possi
bilities for next year.Although most of the players 
were far from being in playing 
condition, the squad in general 
was in much better condition than 
it was last fall when for the great
er part of the season, several play
ers were on the sidelines with in
juries. Helland and Sommers, both 
on the casualty list last season, 
turned in excellent performances 
during the afternoon.
Reeling off a number of suc
cessful end .runs, Helland was 
the spearhead of the Carnegie 
ground attack, on one occasion 
slipping through nearly the en
tire Duquesne team on a beauti
ful broken field run of 25 yards. 
On his passing plays, the most ef
fective of which were short, bul
let, jump passes over the line, 
Helland fired principally at end 
Williamson and halfback Som
mers.
Donohoes switch of last years 
district standout center C. B. 
Groomes to fullback does not seem 
to be a good move, C. B. apparent
ly not feeling as much at home 
in the backfield as he did in the 
line.
The main advantage derived 
from the drills will not be known 
until next fall when the coach
ing staff sets about the task of 
weeding out the players.
The forty-odd players who took 
part in the drills this spring 
should have a substantial advan
tage over all others next fall by 
dint of their conditioning in the 
past few weeks and the instruc
tion they have received in the 
new system of diagramming plays 
inaugurated by Coach Donohoe at 
these practice sessions.
score of 1337. Carnegie Tech, fall
ing only six points behind Cincin
nati, received 1331 to beat Pitt 
by thirteen points. The Carnegie 
team scores and team totals were:
999878275989680274
100 8376269
959469258
978276255
Team Total 1331
Sportscope
Bob Greene clears the "bar by a 
safe margin.
Trackmen 
Lose Final 
Dual Meet
Cassler Beaten 
As Jones Runs 
100 Yds. In 9.8
Having dropped their final dual 
meet of the season by a score of 
72-59 to Westminster on Thurs
day, May 13, the Carnegie Tech 
track squad is preparing for the 
Tri-State Intercollegiate Cham
pionships at Slippery Rock on 
May 22 which will close their 
season.
The loss of the meet to West
minster fits the pattern set by the 
Plaid squad throughout the sea
son of a victory followed by a 
defeat. After opening the present 
campaign with a win over the 
Jeannette Harriers in an informal 
meet the Tartans were stopped in 
their first intercollegiate compe
tition by Case Institute of Tech
nology. Rebounding, they topped 
Geneva, lost to Grove City, and 
took a decisive win from Alleghe
ny prior to the Westminster meet.
Even while being defeated by 
the Titans of Westminster the 
Tartans managed to cop the in
dividual scoring honors. Ivor 
Davies was top man with 10 % 
points, Vitkovich of Westminster 
was second with 10, while Ernie 
Cassler rolled up 9 *4 for third 
high score.
Mile RunTie for first by Davies (c) and Dorman (c); Jackson (w), third. 
Time4:45.0.[Continued on page 5]
Let's go to
ISALY'S
Milk Shakes 
Big Ice Cream Cones
Plaid Golfers 
Defeat W&J 
For First Win
Winning their first match of the 
season, Carnegie Tech golfers 
scored a 7-2 win over the Prexies of Washington and Jefferson 
last Tuesday. Captain Stan Kwoleks 75 for the par 72 layout at 
the Nemacolin Country Club pac
ed the CIT victory and won for 
him the low medal award.
Paired with Kwolek was Bill 
Dean, who shot a 79 to complete 
the 3-0 sweep of the match. Weitz 
and Hahn of Washington and Jef
ferson carded 78 and 89 respectively.
The second round found Ralph 
Sill and Bill Johnson of the Tar
tans falling by the score of 2-1 to 
the Prexies Forrest and Shauer. 
Sill took the single point with 
ease as he completed his round with a 79, beating Shauer by 17 
strokes. Johnson was edged by 
only two strokes as his 82 was 
topped by Forrests 80.
John Euer and Dave Schiller 
completed the matchs final round 
as they whitewashed their oppo
nents with a 3-0 victory. Euer 
edged Sutherland 84-87, and Schil
ler scored with ten strokes less 
than Prestons 95.
Ohio State 
Wins Match
Tartans Place Third 
In 4-Team Rifle Meet
Ohio State, Cincinnati, Pitt and 
Carnegie Tech held a shoulder-toshoulder rifle match on Saturday 
morning, April 24, in MMCC rifle 
range. Detroit could not be pres
ent for the match.
Although Ohio States national 
intercollegiate championship team 
was at a disadvantage because of 
the absence of one of its members, 
it compiled the high score for the 
day, obtaining 1343 out of 1500 
points. High individual scorer was 
Martin of OSU who totaled 282 
out of 300. Martin won first place 
in the individual match shot in 
his district this year.Cincinnati followed OSU with a
SmithMorrisonJordan
Gibel
Schmid
Klondikes 
Tasly LunchesMicrotomic VAN DYKE
Tops in Drawing Pencils
For uniform, dean lines on drawings...for white, sharp 
lines in prints, you can couni on the absolute opacity of 
HI-DENSITY lesda in Microtomic VAN DYKE 
drawing pencils. Even the finest details appear free of 
fuzz or irregularity.
BBEIlllRD FIBER
Round lead from9U to 7B.
Chisel thaped lead* with tht aam HIDE NS1TY quality art available in sis dtgrttt.
Three Stores In the College District
5808 Forbes Street Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street Oakland
Main Plant!
3380 Boulevard tf tbe Allies

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MAY 18, 1948THE CARNEGIE TARTAN5
Netmen Bow To Pitt, 
Win Over Grove City
Miller Stars In Pitt Defeat;
Next Match Is Against Duquesne
Tartan netmen split two meets last week, bowling to a spirited 
Pitt squad at Westinghouse Courts and taking a close decision from 
Grove City at home.
Plaid racquet wielders were able to take only two of nine 
matches from Skyscraper Us aggressive outfit. Martin S. Miller 
starred in the middle of general^
Sportscope
disaster, winning easily over his 
opponent in singles and teaming 
with Burkhardt to win CITs only 
doubles victory. Taylor and Bas
sett showed class in doubles play 
extending their opposition in three 
hard-fought sets.
The Grove City match showed 
more favorable results as the 
Skibo courtmen swept five of nine 
games.
Cronin and Taylor won their 
singles matches and teamed with 
Kroko and Bassett respectively to 
bring back doubles victories.
The Grove City win argues well 
for the future as Grove City later 
in the week defeated Duquesne. 
CIT meets the Dukes next week.
Results of the Pitt match fol
low:
SINGLES
Weil, (Pitt), defeated Taylor, (CIT), 6-1, 6-2.Sehoenberger, (Pitt), defeated Bassett, 
(CIT), 6-3, 6-2.
Simendinger, (Pitt), defeated Cronin, 
(CIT), 6-1, 6-2.Silverstein, (Pitt), defeated McConnell, 
(CIT), 6-0, 6-3.Mason, (Pitt), defeated Kroko, (CIT), 
6-3, 6-4.Miller, (CIT), defeated Baron, (Pitt), 6-1, 6-1.DOUBLESWeil and Sehoenberger, (Pitt), defeated Taylor and Bassett, (CIT), 6-3, 5-7, 6-1.Simendinger and Silverstein, (Pitt), 
defeated Cronin and Kroko, (CIT), 6-3, 6-0.Miller and Burkhardt, (CIT), defeated Sunday and Parker, (Pitt), 6-1, 6-1.
Backstage
DU Defeats 
Emanon, 5-2
Dramats Top SN, 5-4, 
In Extra Inning Game
Scoring three runs in the last 
half of the sixth inning, Delta Upsilon handed Emanon their first 
defeat of the season by a score 
of 5-2. The victory was the sec
ond in league play for the D. U.s 
as against an equal number of de
feats.
Bill Koch again pitched a mas
terful game for D. U., limiting 
Emanon to three singles and strik
ing out five men. The victors col
lected a total of seven hits, four 
of them coming in their big sixth 
inning rally.
In an extra-inning game, the 
Dramats gained their first win of 
the year, edging Sigma Nu I by 
a 5-4 margin. Sigma Nu jumpedoff to a two-run lead in the third 
inning when Mike Theodore, the 
leagues leading slugger, slam
med a home run with one man 
on base.
However, the Dramats tied the 
score in the fifth inning and the 
2-2 deadlock still held at the end 
of the regulation seven innings of 
play. In the first half of the eighth 
inning, Sigma Nu scored what ap
peared to be the game-winning 
runs, but the Dramats came back 
in the last of the eighth to puSi 
over three markers and gain the
[Continued from page 1] things to give a weve-beenthrough- all - this - before impres
sion. But they couldnt hide the 
fact that each time was a new 
time and they loved it.
The dressing rooms began to 
thin out as the cast took their 
places in the wings to hear the 
overture. The wall above the 
makeup tables scratched to life 
again informing those remaining 
in an anxious monotone, Warn
ing! Places for Act I, Scene 2. . . . 
Places for Act I, Scene 2. In the 
wings off stage right Dick Hoch 
took a final drag, stepped out his 
cigarette, straightened his white 
tie, and left to take his place on 
the directors stand. The house 
lights were dimmed and a sweep
ing applause greeted Dick. There 
were wishes of good luck, backslaps, and handshakes as the 
strains of the overture filled the 
house and Scotch n Sodas 1948 
production, The Ladys at Work 
began its run.This night and the two that fol
lowed were the reward toward 
which over 200 students from all 
departments had worked for eight 
weeks. To weave the 27 songs of 
George Wood into a musical revue 
of professional caliber and do it 
with a largely amateur cast was 
a Herculean task, a task made 
easier by the infinite patience of 
Mr. Lawrence Carra, George 
Wood, George Stupakis, Kenny 
Welch, and Champ Palmer, to 
name a few of the many deserving 
mention.
[Continued from page 4] 
that heartbreaking defeat absorb
ed in Cleveland last year.
Lehigh always fielding a good 
team, was in our opinion 
the best eleven the Plaid faced 
last year. The 1925 team has been 
the only one able to take the meas
ure of the Engineers in the ten 
games played to date. Against such 
formidable opposition as Cornell, Rutgers, Muhlenburg and their 
traditional rival, Lafayette, Le
high compiled a five and four record last season.
Its a rough looking schedule 
and even though the Tartans will 
field a greatly improved team this fall, we can expect our opponents 
to do the same .We expect Wash
ington, F & M, W & J, and Le
high to be the toughest teams that 
the Plaid will run up against. 
However, we will be looking for 
a win over Marietta in the local 
inaugural next October 9. Six 
years is an awfully long time!
Track Meet
[Continued from page 4]
440-Yard DashWon by Yanan (c);Price (c), second; Field (w), thirdTime0:53.2.
100-Yard DashWon by Jones (w);Cassler (c), second; Aburano (w), third Time0:09.8.
120-Yard High HurdlesWon by Ma- vana (w), Hamman (c), second; Giles- pie (w), third. Time0:15.5.
880-Yard RunWon by Davies (c)Wilson (w), second; Dorman (c), third Time2:05.4.
220-Yard DashWon by Cassler (c)Jones (w), second; Aburano (w), third! Time0:22.3.
Two-Mile RunWon by Jackson (w) Cockrell (c), second; Yourd (w), third, Time10:47.0.
120-Yard Low HurdlesWon by Ship- stead (w), Ickes (c), second; Mavana (w), third. Time0:13.6.
4/5-Mile RelayWon by Carnegie (Cassler, Price, Davies, Yarian). Time 2:42.0.
High JumpWon by Paul (w); Rhiel (c), second; Hamman (c), third. Height 5 9.
Shot PutWon by Vitkovich (w); Cray (w), second; Troutman (c), third. Distance36 Vfe.
DiscusWon by McCullough (w); Tor- rey (w), second; Borowicz (w), third. Distance112 10.
Pole VaultWon by Green (c); Abur- ango (w), second; Barthelson (w), third. Height9 6.
Broad JumpWon by Rhiel (c); Re- pogole (w), second; Shipstead (w), third. Distance19 3 Vi.
JavelinWon by Vitkovich (w); McCullough (w), second; Borowicz (w), 
third. Distance154 7V.
Arts Night Program Scheduled 
For May 23 In Little Theatre
Aims Are To Demonstrate Function And 
Increase Art Appreciation In Modern Life
For a better appreciation and understanding of the creative ap
proach to work done by students in the various Fine Arts departments, 
a committee of Arts students has announced that an Arts Night will 
be held in the Little Theatre and large exhibition room on Sunday 
night, May 23, at eight oclock.
The program to be presented in the Little Theatre will include 
Natalie Barnett in the first performance of a Sonata for Piano by
Ruth White, a senior music stu-4-------------------------------------------------
dent, a Sonata for Violin and Pia
no by Lester Trimble, a oneact play, Corner of God, written 
by Louis Adelman, sophomore 
play writing major, and directed 
by Irving Bachman, drama mas
ters student; and the showing of 
an original motion picture pro
duced by members of the P & D 
department.
This program will be followed 
by an exhibition of projects by 
students of the painting and de
signs, sculpture, architecture, and 
drama departments in the large 
exhibition room.
The Arts Nights committee, un
der the faculty supervision of 
Norman Dawes, includes Michael 
Aroya, George Corrin, Ann Ellis,
Hal Frederick, Lee Goldman, Jack 
Hackler, Jack Kelly, Kay Kuter,
Aureen Litt, Winnie Schultz, Ar
thur Silver, Lois Shapiro, and 
Stuart Williams.
The purpose of Arts Night is 
to illustrate the inter-relationship 
of creative problems and their so
lutions in the various Fine Arts 
departments. An attempt will be 
made to show how each of the 
arts contributes to the other 
through the individual approach
es to such artistic fundamentals as color, composition, design, form
rhythm, space-relationship, and 
technique.
Perhaps the most important aim, 
however, is to give graphic and 
concrete form to the vague and 
nebulous words and phrases so 
glibly tossed about by the aestheticians; by demonstration and ex
hibition, to define the meaning and 
function of the arts in modern 
life.
It is regrettable that Arts Night 
cannot be opened to the entire 
student body, since only then will 
it completely fulfill its function. 
However, due to limitations of 
space, the Arts Night committee 
has found it necessary to extend 
invitations only to Fine Arts stu
dents and faculty. It is hoped that support of Arts Night this year 
will be such as to warrant its con
tinuation as an annual affair and 
enable it to expand in scope so 
that it may eventually serve all 
who are interested.
Dr. Doherty To 
Visit Case Tech
Dr. Doherty will attend the in
auguration of T. Keith Glennan 
as the fourth president of The 
Case'- Institute of Technology at 
Cleveland, Ohio, on May 20 and 
21.
SPALDINGWHERE THERES COKE 
THERES HOSPITALITY
decision.teamTNT
Tftu Delta Pi 
Dejta Upsilon Emanon Sigma Nu I Deltf Tau Delta Dramats Citcom
Won
41211110
Lost 0 0 2 1 . 2 2 2 2
TttJTWS OF THE COURTS
BOTH THE FIBER'SM.*T> 
WRIGHTDOTSON DAVIS CUP 
AND THE FIBER-WEUDED 
SPALDING KRO-BAT.TEKNI3
RACKETS HAVE 
BEEN PJ-AYED 
FOR YEAR5 BY THE 
BEST/
on**?.fit

---------------------------------------------------

6THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MAY 18, 1948
FORT Pin TYPEWRITER CO.
644 Liberty AvenuePittsburgh, Penna.
Campus Headquarters for Arrow Products, Nationally Known Clothing and Furnishings
LEONARDS MENS SHOP
Comer Forbes and Atwood St. Oakland
sensational typewriter improve
ment in years...
Finger Form Keys! Here are keys that cradle 
your finger tips .. . designed to mfcke your 
typing easier... faster... more accurate!
These Finger Form Keys are but one of 
the many great new improvements on the i 
New Royal Portable! ,
New Beauty i Dramatic, sweeping linesall 
'meant to make your typing easier!
Speed Spacer! A space bar built right into the framework of the new RoyaFPortable!
Nothing to hurdle over for quick spacing 
action!
Rapid Ribbon Changer! Takes the unneces
sary work out of ribbon changing!
"Magic"!Margin! Royals exclusive margin 
setting device which outmodes all other 
portable margin setting!
Plus dozens  literally dozens  of im
provements and innovations!
Come in and see the New I Loyal Portable 
Typewriter! Two models. New Quiet De 
Luxe, $89.50 plus tax.
On Stage
[Continued from, page 2]
I must confess that possibly my 
eye was jaundiced by the almost 
insupportable heat of the Music 
Hall. Perhaps the show was not 
quite so bad as I have made out. 
Neither do I want to give the im
pression that I didnt like any
thing I saw or heard. To give 
credit where it is due, I thorough
ly enjoyed the Vodvil Revival 
and Aunt Augustas Wedding. I 
also thought that Cool Spring 
Water was a very fine song, wellperformed and highly effective.
Furthermore, it is quite evi
dent that there is plenty of talent 
in Scotch and Sodaonly most of 
it went begging. I do not doubt 
for a minute that the club could 
produce a really exceptional show 
given the proper frame for it. 
But since the club has eschewed 
the traditional form of college var
iety show, it is up to the club to 
find a frame that actually fits its 
needs, without forcing it into a 
pseudo-Broadway mold that is en
tirely inadequate.Carnival History
[Continued from page 2] 
Gathering momentum, a Cos
tume Ball and musical revue were 
added which resulted in a 1939 
celebration that was really bigtime. An $800 contract secured
two orchestrasDick Stabile and 
Larry Clinton, The Old Dipsy 
Doodler. That year Scotch and 
Soda produced Take It Straight 
under the direction of Buzzy Fineblatt, founder of the S&S Club 
(1938). Also highlighted was the 
Donkey Softball game between 
the faculty and the seniors.
The 1942 Spring Carnival fea
tured Tommy Tucker and Russ 
Morgan while the second and last 
Fall Carnival starred Gene Krupa. 
That last Fall Carnival may be 
remembered by an informal dance 
whose theme was Coney Island 
Night.
Then in 43 the first Costume 
Ball since 1937 was held. Its theme 
was that of the Mardi Gras and 
from all reports everyone went 
all out to justify it. A typical sight 
was to see clouds of confetti fall
ing on seductive harem girls who 
were walking between feuding 
mountain boys. Then came an an
nouncement! At 9:15 President 
Doherty made the following proc
lamationLet the spirit of Mardi 
Gras reign over our campusat 
least until one oclock.
By 1944 the man shortage had 
seized the campus and Spring Car
nival was modified. In fact all the 
booths were erected in the gym 
and the dancing was done to the 
accompaniment of local bands. 
1945 was even worseno carnival 
at all. But with the influx of vet
erans and the returning students, 
Spring Carnival was once again 
the topic of conversation in 46.
Sir Fleming 
Visits CIT On 
Technical Tour
Sir Arthur Percy Fleming, noted 
British author and engineer, will 
visit the Carnegie Tech campus on 
May 25 for the purpose of famil
iarizing himself with the latest 
techniques and methods used in 
the College of Engineering and 
Science. It is expected that he will 
tour most of the laboratories and 
research centers on the campus.
Float Parade
[Continued from page 3] 
of the winning Kappa Sigs. De
picting the story of From Ma
chinery Hall to Machinery Hole, 
the float featured on one end a 
dinosaur and cave beauties, while 
placed on the other end was an 
amazingly realistic replica of Ma
chinery hall.
The rain that descended early 
Friday morning destroyed not on
ly the hopes but also the floats of 
the other fraternities.
Continuing in its stride, the 47 
carnival season was of the same 
pre-war variety with the excep
tion of the Costume Ball.
This has been its past, but who 
can tell its future. Heres to big
ger and better Spring Carnivals!
ROYAL PORTABLE
... *\wftf the revolutionary new
FINGER FORM KEYS
designed to cradle your fnger tips!
Canoe Tilt
[Continued from page 3] 
didnt want him to be dead when 
he hit the water. The second foul 
was called on a technicality, thus 
giving the Kappa Sigs the de
cision.
The marked enthusiasm and fe
rocity of Alan Stark, the Tau 
Delts tilter. was in a way the 
Kappa Sigs fault, since they at
tempted psychological warfare, 
entering into each tilt with blood
curdling yells of Kill em!, and 
other inspiring battle-crys. These 
yells apparently inspired the Tau 
Delta tiltter also.
DTD won the final from the 
Kappa Sigs, thus adding to their 
victory in the buggy races. Pe
culiarly enough, the final was one 
of the less exciting of the tilts and 
was characterized by no untoward 
incidents.
Many people seemed to feel that 
the officiating left a lot to be de
sired since on several occasions 
there was a marked hesitation and 
uncertainty by the judges in mak
ing their decisions. This no doubt 
led Hopper of DTD to shout Wait 
til they flip a coin! when the 
judges were deliberating upon 
calling a foul after one particu
larly energetic encounter.
While this officiating was con
fused and a bit arbitrary, it was 
nevertheless an honest and sincere 
attempt at fairness, and since the 
judges, Pat Taylor and Bill Rog
ers, were confused impartially, 
none of the contestants were too 
bitter.
Squirrel Cage 
Begins Run 
On May 28
The Squirrel Cage, a studentwritten comedy about Communism 
in Hollywood, will open May 28 
in the Little Theater.
Tickets will be distributed at 
4:00 p. m., May 26, at the Drama 
department office.
Written by William Putch, playwriting junior, it is adapted from 
a novel by Edwin Gilbert. Mr. Gil
bert will attend the opening per
formance of the play.
Mr. Gilbert conceived the idea 
for The Squirrel Cage shortly 
after he had been fired from his 
job as a screenwriter for a major 
motion picture company after be
ing charged with Communist ten
dencies.
ROTC Honorary 
Plans Initiation
Scabbard and Blade, the ROTC 
honorary, will hold its spring ini
tiation ceremony on May 27 at the 
Union. The prior informal cere
monies begin at 4:30 p. m. in This
tle hall. The formal initiation will 
take place in the Union immedi
ately upon their completion.
Those to be initiated are: James Anderson, Wayne Ashbee, Willis 
Boothe, Wallace Fertig, Charles 
Hilton, John Mays, Patrick Mc
Curdy, John Mosley, Andrew 
Stephano, and Albert Zelt.
Make "BUD" your ARROW 
Headquarters
236 Diamond St.
Across From Donahoes
ATlantic 2964
PAISLEYS.;.
 la Arrow!
'Our skillful tie chef has whipped up a brand new 
exclusive foulard material and made it into a fine 
assortment of English patterned paisleys.
See your favorite Arrow dealer today for the top 
tie value of Spring, 48.
ARROW SHIRTS and TIES-*------------------------ -  -  ' - ---------------------?
(UNDERWEAR  HANDKERCHIEFS  SPORTS SHIRTS*

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MAY 18, 1948THE CARNEGIE TARTAN7
* * THE CARNEGIE PLAID * *
Page Edited by Evening School Students of Carnegie Institute of Technology
     -     - - -     "
The Ladys At Work Not 
Up To Broadway Standards
Length, Lack Of Rehearsal Spoil Show; 
Gloria Bergman, Edmonds Perform Notably
by Lou Adams 
This year Scotch n Soda pre-^
Scholarships Encourage Honor 
Students Needing Financial Aid
CIT Awards Two Kinds of Scholarships; 
Applications Must Be Filed Before August 1
sntd a revue which was billed as Broadway caliber. In our op
inin, The Ladys at Work, as 
a whole does not measure up to 
the standards of the Great White 
Way.The show was too long and even 
a good thing becomes tiresome 
after too much. Some of the dia
logu could have been omitted, 
and several of the songs would 
have been better left unsung. 
Lack of adequate rehearsal some
what hampered the action, and 
some of the lines should have been 
given more study.
In spots the show was good, 
and there was many excellent in
dividual performances. Gloria Bergman as the girl and Louis Edmohds as the boy performed not
ably. Miss Bergmans Sugar Catd Cookies and Mr. Edmonds 
Twilight in the Tuileries were 
particularly good. Bert Pollack, 
Pam Morrill, and Mary Elizabeth 
Kane were highly amusing in 
their comedy solos.
Aside from a few listless mo
ments, both the singing and danc
ing choruses were good, and the 
choreographer, Miss Collette 
Crawford, rates high praise. The 
show was beautiful both in scene
ry and costumes, and the music 
for the most part was worthy of 
nte.
The songs Twilight in the Tuil
eries and Drop in the Bucket 
were outstanding, but the enjoy
ment of both was marred by the 
loss of some of the lyrics.
PGP Meeting 
Postponed 
Until May 23
The meeting of Phi Gamma Pi originally planned for May 16 has 
been postponed until May 23, at 3:00, in Carnegie Union.
Miss Capelli announced that the 
reason for cancellation of the meeting was due to the fact that 
the photographer who will take 
group pictures is unable to come 
to the Union until May 23.
Arrangements are being completed for the annual Phi Gamma 
Pi banquet to be held at the Uni
versity Club in June. Reserva
tions will be $3.50; this price to 
supercede the original $2.75 an
nounced, and will be taken by 
officers or banquet committee members.
The Carnegie Plaid
Efillor Cecille Zellner 
News Editor 
Anne Shack Associate Editors George Bogovich Catherine Romanoff Page edited by Evening School stu
dents of Carnegie Institute of Technolo
gy. All views or opinions expressed in 
editorial column are not necessarily en
dorsed by the Editorial Board of the Day 
School staff.
Even though the 8-Ball suf
fered a leave of absence, it is still 
holding its own on the Tech cam
pus. The Delta Upsilon spring 
carnival booth, featuring the 8- 
Ball, was doing a big business. 
Obviously, the charming token 
was too high to get behind.
The Engineering Banquet for 
this year has almost been forgot
ten, but if I recall, there were a 
lot of new faces that werent 
around last year. Joe Rymar hon
ored us with his presence from 
Buffalo at that event and we hope 
to see more of him. Mr. Fairfax 
did himself some good by having 
those door prizes taken by his own 
crowd of four people.
Robert F. Trail may be a famil
iar name to some of you people 
who were around the campus back 
in 1930. We received a letter from 
him and find that he is now liv
ing in Charles Town, West Vir
ginia. May we hear from you 
soon again, Bob.
Oh where, oh where has our 
staff gone tonight? No less than 
eight were on the midway of the 
carnival, riding the horses, ring
ing the bell for a cigar and taking 
chances of all sorts.
Mid-western exams are over 
arid the instructor told the A.C. 
Circuit class that all they needed 
was a slide rule and their trig ta
bles. Simms wanted to know if he 
mentioned anything about bring
ing his brain, too!
Rumors have it that Norman 
Martello has decided to tie the 
knot very soon. In fact, the wed
ding date is set for June 19. The 
PLAID extends its best wishes and 
congratulations to the young cou
ple. Even though Norm graduates 
in June, he will be back next 
semester in graduate studies.
The only time a customer is 
wrong is when he argues with a 
cop. Maybe so, but try to argue 
with an evening school instructor 
and you find there are angles you dont know, even in psychology!
The P&D class has taken the 
Spring Carnival in a big way. For 
class, they had to live the life and 
sketch scenes of their immediate 
environment.
RODGER'S
DAIRY
Try our
HAMBURGERS
Made with 100% pure beef 
U. S. Government inspected
LARGE MILK SHAKES
Made with pure whole 
milk
RODGER'S
Oairy Stores
3905 FORBES STREET 
Near Boquet
4619 CENTER AVENUE 
Near Craig
5414 WALNUT STREET 
Shadyside
Other stores downtown
Carnegie Institute of Technology 
believes that the primary purpose 
of scholarship aid is to encourage, 
in the pursuit of higher education, 
students who have distinguished 
themselves by brilliant academic 
work and who need financial as
sistance. These scholarships are 
of two kinds: awards to entering 
students, known as Evening Car
negie Scholarships, and awards 
to students who have been in at
tendance during the previous year, 
known as Evening Honor Schol
arships.Scholarships are available each 
year to students entering the firstyear curricula of the College of 
Engineering and Science on the 
basis of high scholastic standing 
and financial need. The value of 
these scholarships is $95.00 for the year and will be issued in the form 
of a credit to be applied (one-half 
each semester) toward the tuition 
fee.
Night Council 
Meets With 
Administration
Evening Student Council held 
an informal meeting with mem
bers of the administration, Tues
day, May 11. Members present 
were Misses Capelli, Lang, Tohey, 
and Zellner; Messrs. Mihelich, Bo
govich, Adams, Dawes, and Mar
tello. The administration was rep
resented by Dean Dickinson, Mr. 
McKelvey and Mr. Rodgers.
The subject under discussion 
was the financing of Student 
Council for the school year 1948- 
1949. Two plans were presented 
by Dean Dickinson which he felt 
would alleviate councils financial 
difficulties.In the first plan presented the 
school would underwrite the en
tire budget as presented by coun
cil. The advantage of such a plan 
lies in the fact that council would 
be able to build up a reserve so
cial fund and yet meet operating 
costs.
The second plan would increase 
the per capita activities fee, and 
thus increase the amount of money 
council could use for maintaining 
its solvency. But this sum would 
be dependent upon future enroll
ments making it a fluctuating fig
ure that would not allow council 
to plan for any definite future pro
gram.
Since the enrollment is much 
below pre-war level, and the reg
istrar does not see any too great 
an increase in the very near fu
ture, it is evident, therefore, that 
council must find a solution to 
their present difficulties.
A budget for the year 1948-49 
was presented to the administra
tion and the previous expenditures 
for the years 1946 to 1948, which 
will enable the administration to 
recognize the increased budget as 
justifiable.
To be eligible to compete for one 
of these scholarships, the applicant 
must rank in the upper seventh of 
his senior class, must be recom
mended by his high school princi
pal, and must meet the full re
quirements for admission. These 
awards are made for one year 
only, and the recipient must 
schedule in each semester the 
number of units equivalent to the 
first-year program as listed in the 
catalog.
Applicants for Evening Carnegie 
Scholarships should file the appli
cation for admission before Au
gust 1, take the prescribed en
trance examination and file the 
scholarship application before 
September 1.
The Evening Honor Scholarships 
are of high scholastic standing and 
financial need to undergraduate 
evening students who have been 
in attendance during the previous 
year.
To be eliigible to compete for 
one of these scholarships, a student must have successfully com
pleted the preceding college year 
in one of the regular undergradu
ate evening programs at the Car
negie Institute of Technology and 
must have earned a minimum 
quality point factor of 2.75 on all 
of the work scheduled, including 
the Supplementary Term, if any. 
However, no student will be con
sidered eligible who has not car
ried a schedule averaging at least 
six attendance hours per week for 
the year (in the Department of 
Music, at least 18 units for the 
year), exclusive of the Supple
mentary Term.
Each award will be computed 
by multiplying the number of 
units carried by the student dur
ing the preceding year, including 
the Supplementary Term, if any, 
by one-half the current tuition fee 
rate per unit. The computed 
award will be issued in the form 
of a credit to be applied (one-half 
each semester) toward the tuition 
fee for the current year. In no 
case will the credit allowed be in 
excess of the tuition fee charged 
in either semester.
The Arthur W. Sparks Memorial 
Scholarship is awarded yearly by 
the Institute to an upper class 
evening student of high scholar
ship standing and character in the 
Department of Painting and De
sign, College of Fine Arts. The 
award is made and the amount 
computed on the same basis as the 
Evening Honor Scholarships.
The George H. Follows Memo
rial Scholarship Fund was estab
lished in 1945 by members of the 
Phi Nu Fraternity of Carnegie In
stitute of Technology to provide 
scholarship aid for students in 
evening classes.
Students who wish to be con
sidered for these scholarships 
(with the exception of the Even
ing Student Council Scholarships) 
should file an application at the 
Office of the Registrar before Au
gust 1 of each year. Blanks for 
this purpose may be obtained at 
the Registrars Office.
StaffLou Adams George DawesRay Schwalm Charlene J. ToheyBill Wallace A1 SnowdenFrank Mihelic Jim FlahertyPat Schaffer
W. I. DOUGLAS f SHOE CO.,SROCKTON 15, MASS. f
205 FIFTH AVE.
6223 FRANKSTOWN AVE. (E. LIBERTY) 
1202 MARKET ST., WHEELING

---------------------------------------------------

**>*
Bulletin Board
Womens Glee Club
The Carnegie Tech Womens 
Glee Club, under the direction of 
Miss Carolyn Kennedy will pre
sent their annual formal concert 
on Friday, May 21, in Stephen Fos
ter Memorial Auditorium at 8:30 
p. m. No admission will be charg
ed.
On May 25, the girls will end 
their season with their awards 
banquet at the Roosevelt Hotel at 
which time five girls will receive 
gold keys for four years of active 
membership. Seventeen girls will 
receive silver keys for two years 
active membership, and the mana
ger will receive a gold-jeweled 
key.
IC Discussion
Dr. George Leland Bach, head 
of the department of economics, 
will be the speaker at the next 
meeting of the Pittsburgh Inter
collegiate Discussion group, to be 
held at the Carnegie Union, at 
8:00 p. m. on Thursday, May 20. 
The topic for the meeting will be 
The American Economy.
Dr. Bach, former advisor to the 
Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System and author of sev
eral economics texts, will discuss 
Boom and Bust in our Monopoly 
Economy.
SAM Elections
The Society for the Advance
ment of Management elected the 
following officers for next year at 
its meeting on Monday, May 10. 
Phil Lawler, president; Carl Woleslagle, vice president; Paul Henry, 
corresponding secretary; Robert 
Downey, treasurer; and Jerry 
James, recording secretary.
Call Day
[Continued from page 1]
The following honoraries called the listed groups of students to membership:Tan Beta Pi: Richard Hermann, Wil
liam Hasek, George Zenk, Theodore Tsevdos, Thomas Hall, Joseph Vogan, John 
Malloy, Robert Johnson, William Bellows, Willis Boothe, David Sapper, John 
Grace, George Baldwin, Robert Crago, George Pittman, Robert Paustian, Edward Johnson, and Millard Brown.
Omicron Delta Kappa: David Mintz, Stanley Siegel, Clark Sloan, Robert Johnson, Vincent Prus, and J. K. OHare.
Mortar Board: Marilyn Allshouse, Myra Jane Barry, Estelle Berenfield, Anita Cole, Sylvia Davis, Ethel Friedman, 
Jeanne Gannon, Betty Lou Kaufman, Caroline Knoblock, Doris Moore, Sema Moskovitz, Dorothy Stewart, and Mary Lou Thorpe.
Beaux Arts: Lucy Appleton, DaleBlosser, Robert Broida, Herta Christie, Shirley Chirstjohn, David Clark, Ann 
Ellis, Louise Emerson, Imero Fiorentino, Allison Goodwin, Robert Grove, Gaylord Hawkins, Patricia Johnson, Leonard Kessler, Jean Knidler, Aileene Mattes, Beatrice Patterson, Philip Pearlstein, 
Norman Rosfeld, Jr., Janice Seiner, Minette Seigel, and Anthony Zukasky.Eta Kappa No: James Barclay, Charles Cerulli, Paul Hanna, Quentin Hoffman, Joseph Kuhn, Lawrence Cunkler, Wen
dell Minor, and George Zenk.Delta Skull: John Biewener, John
Braun, Jr., Richard DiPrima, Burton Epstien, Richard Fleischman, William Knightly, Charles Koester, William Meister, Ames Penfield, Jr., Richard Peterson, James Reynolds, Barry Rowles, Rob
ert Sinclair, Herbert Stone, and Albert Yarian.Scimitar: Hamilton Bartlett, LeroyBergstrom, William Brent, Robert Broi
da, Robert Carpenter, Don Culler, William Feeman, Jay Johnson, Earl Latter- man, Robin Molny, John Montstream Jr., Robert Nelson, Charles Rainesalo, 
Malcolm Samakow, Eugene Sapper, Robert Wendler, Arthur Zuch, and Arthur Christopher, Jr.
Cwens: Thea Braider, Mary Jo Car- raher, Mary Cauffield, Mary Lou Com
er, Carol Feldman, Marilyn Gasche, Eleanor Gilmore, Rita Gould, Ruth Gunning, Frances Hamborsky, Jane Harris, 
Ruth Jordan, Shirley Levin, Diane McFarland, Jean Mueller, Nancy Pardue, Nancy Reutti, Carol Roden, Marion 
Rudd, Dorothy Schell and Janice Seiner.
EXPERT REPAIRS
EADIOS, PHONOGRAPHS, APPLIANCES
Sales and Service
LEWIS RADIO 
ELECTRIC CO.
11 OAKLAND AVI, MA. 4*11
Bring Your Radio Problems 
To Us
SS T1AU BXFEUKNCI
At Your Service
THE CARNEGIE TARTAN TUESDAY, MAY 18, 1948
I LIKE CHESTERFIELDS 
-THEYRE MY BRAND 
BECAUSE THEYRE MILD/1
STARRING IN
"SAIGON"
A PARAMOUNT PICTURE
WHY...I smoke Chesterfield
( FROM A SERIES OF STATEMENTS BY PROMINENT TOBACCO FARMERS)
I think Chesterfield is a good-smoking cigarette 
and I like them. They have a good, ripe-tobacco taste 
and they*re mild. 
Nobody pays a higher price to get good-smoking 
tobacco than Chesterfield. They buy sweet, ripe tobacco. 
Looks like a gold dollar in the barn/*
FARMER, PARIS, KY.
