Vol. 38 No. 39CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, DECEMBER 5, 1944
Basketball Team Wins 
Season Opener; Downs 
Slippery Rock, 27-25
The boys from Hannum Tech 
opened successfully Friday night by 
backing into their first win this 
season. We say backed, for that is 
just about what they did. After 
running up a 14-7 lead at the half, 
the Tartans fought off the Slippery 
Rock rally during the last half to 
take the verdict 27-25. Each team 
used only eight men during the 
game. The schools entire male pop
ulation, Is on the basketball team, 
which left us puzzling as to where 
they got all of the male rooters in 
the stands.
Slippery took an early three point 
lead, as Seyman shot from up close, 
and Mcllwain put in a foul, The
odore pivoted in the center for two 
points, but Solak of Slippery Rock 
duplicated this feat, and Tech trail
ed 5-2. A foul by Clougherty, two 
baskets by Theodore, and another 
by Klein put Tech ahead at the 
quarter by 9-7, and this lead was 
never relinquished.
Five points dropped through in 
the second quarter, all for Tech, 
lengthened the lead to 14-7 in one of 
the lowest scoring halves weve 
seen.
After playing through a see-saw 
third quarter, which saw Theodore 
drop four and Scioscia two, the Tar
tans girded themselves for a stand 
to hold their 20-14 lead. At this 
time, it became quite evident that 
Seyman of Slippery Rock had per
fect control of both backboards, and 
that if Tech was to score, it would 
be on the first try, and not on the 
rebound.
Outsanding player for Tech was, 
in our opinion, Leo Clougherty, who 
showed more know-how on the 
floor than anyone on the team. His 
brilliant passing and amibitious 
Continued on page 4
Pi D. E. Initiates 
Five New Members
On Monday, November 27, in a 
ceremony at the Carnegie Union, 
five students were initiated into Pi 
Delta Epsilon,, national journalistic 
honorary fraternity. Those persons 
for wHom congratulations are in or
der arfc Marion Angus, August Bin
der, Clara Herron, Mary Jane Horridge,-and John Riggle.
Following the initiation was a 
banquet at the Royal York dining 
room sponsored by Pi Delta Epsilon 
for the members of all campus pub
lications. Guest speaker of the oc
casion was Miss Gladys Schmitt, 
writer and teacher of Thought and 
Expression, who compared journal
ism with fiction and discussed the 
necessity of simplicity and accuracy 
in both. Also present for the evening 
was Mr. E. E. McDonald, Grand Na
tional Secretary and Treasurer of 
the Fraternity. Tom Bokman and 
Adeline Herlick are the local of
ficers, 
Jones & Laughlin Contributes 
$100,000 to Endowment Fund
President Robert E. Doherty announced recently that the Jones & 
Laughlin Steel Corporation has made an important contribution to the 
Carnegie Endowment Fund Drive. The gift, amounting to $100,000, is a 
contribution toward the endowment of a professorship.
With this generous gesture, C. I. T. has made an important move to
ward the fulfillment of an agreement made by the Institute in 1921. With 
this agreement Carnegie Tech is to raise $4,000,000 before July 1, 1946. 
When this goal is attained, the Carnegie Corporation of New York will 
give two dollars for each secured by 
the school. It is possible under these 
conditions to increase the perma
nent endowment of Carnegie Tech 
by $12,000,000. C. I. T. has gained 
$2,500,000 of the $4,000,000 goal, and 
there is a little more than a years 
time to raise the balance of 
$1,500,000.
Mr. Lewis, chairman of the Board 
of Directors and President of Jones 
and Laughlin said that the accom
plishments of Carnegie Tech within 
the community in which the com
panys employes live, has influenc
ed the corporation to give generous
ly. He also added, Carnegie Tech
Tau Beta Pi Pledges 
Six Honor Students
Because of their integrity, intelli
gence, and character, three senior 
students and three honor juniors 
have been called as pledges of the 
honorary engineering fraternity, 
Tau Beta Pi. These six students, su
perior in scholarship and outstand
ing for general interest in the school 
are Robert Teasdale, James C. 
Shaw, John Sieger, Ernest A. Lowenstein, Robert Marcus, and Julia 
Randall. Because of national rules 
regarding women members, Julia 
Randall will not be formally initiat
ed. Instead she receives a special 
womens badge. E. A. Lowenstein 
has already been initiated because 
of his entering the armed forces. 
Only three honor juniors can be 
chosen; these, during the first 
semester of their junior year must 
be in the upper fifth of their class.
The purpose of Tau Beta Pi is to 
bring together students of high cal
iber and students who have mutual 
interests.
The present officers of Tau Beta 
Pi are: George E. Pake, President; 
Leonard S. Lerman, Vice President; 
Edgar R. Stephens, Recording Sec
retary; Daniel C. Schacher, parlia
mentarian; and Paul Gibian, cata
loguer.
William Carpenter, who was 
chosen by the fraternity in the last 
call will be formally initiated at a 
future time because he, also, has 
entered the army. John Keyes, who 
was also selected at the last call 
will be taken in at Virginia Polytechnical Institute.
Notice
There are several pictures in the 
Tartan file. If anyone has submitted 
a picture for publication, will they 
please claim it before the end of this 
semester.
trained men and women are filling 
increasingly important roles in the 
industrial, civic, and. cultural life of 
Western Pennsylvania. I am speak
ing primarily from our experience 
with them at the Jones & Laughlin 
Steel Corporation. Other organiza
tions have doubtless felt this in
fluence also. We are happy to as
sist in widening the scope of activi
ties of one of the nations outstand
ing educational institutions.
The gift of the Jones & Laughlin 
Steel Corporation is greatly appre
ciated and President Doherty also 
expressed his appreciation of th 
gift and the recognition of the im
portance of our institution by the 
corporation.
Prof. B. R. Teare 
Replaces Prof. Work 
As Head of EE Dept.
Professor B. R. Teare has been ap
pointed Head of the Department of 
Electrical Engineering at Carnegie 
Tech. This position was formerly
held by Professor R. Work who has 
been relieved in order to supervise 
the Veterans Center.
Dr.' Teare has been at Carnegie 
Continued on page 4
MMCC Sophomores Give 
Party For Freshmen
On Friday evening, December 8, 
the sophomore class of Margaret 
Morrison will entertain the Fresh
men at a gay skirt and sweater 
party to be held in Rec. Hall. The 
purpose of. the getrtogether is to 
help the two classes get acquainted 
with each other.
Each Sophomore has been assign-  Continued on page 4
I. H. C. To Sponsor 
All-School Dance
Record Hop To Follow 
Case Basketball Game
The second all-school dance of 
this semester will be held imme- I 
diately after the Case-Tech basket
ball game on Saturday, December 9. 
The dance, which will be in Thistle 
Hall, will run until 1:00 and is be
ing sponsored by the Inter-Honor- 1 
ary Council.
An interesting feature will be 
dancing to records instead of to the f 
usual orchestra. Another feature 
will be th strict informality of 
dress, which may be interpreted to '% 
mean sport clothes.
The records will not be just any 
old collection. They will be those on i 
the C; I. T. Hit Parade as chosen by | 
the students themselves. There are 
ballot boxes in the canteen and Ad-8 
ministration Hall today in which 
everyone is requested to drop a vote 1 
for his favorite record. The records i 
receiving the most votes will then * 
be played at the dance.
The tickets, which will be on sale \ 
in the Canteen and Administration 
from twelve until two oclock every ' 
day this week, are forty cents a 
couple.
Dave Jones, president of InterHonorary Council is chairman of 
the dance, and his committee in
cludes Peggy Cole, Adeline Herlick, 
Jean Lisle,, and Irwin Aisenberg.
The last all-school dance, the Hal
loween Hop, proved that C. I. T. 
students, can really, support a cam
pus affair, and it is hoped that their 
school spirit has not been on the 
down grade. Support, says Jones, . 
is what is wanted.
Physical Society Gives 
Banquet for Dr. Stern
On Friday, December 8, at 6:30 
p. mM the Carnegie Institute of j 
Technology and the Physical. So
ciety of Pittsburgh will give a din
ner at the University Club in honor 
of Dr. Otto Stern, Carnegie Tech;,' 
Nobel Prize winner. Dr. Stem was , 
awarded the prize because of his 
outstanding work on molecular 
beams. 
Many noted physicists and otherv 
famous personages from all parts oi ; 
the country have been invited tcHj 
attend the affair at the expense of * 
Carnegie Tech.

---------------------------------------------------

CdUv AtoHcUai* Sfxanti. 9C Qenesud
So Long, Kids By Tommy Bokman
Well, it has finally come to this. Unbelievable as it may seemes- Volleyball team, with no one showing the abilpecially to myself-I have joined the way of male and 18-year old flesh . e stutlon 1? th/,Intmur(a consistently garths Tjrttwrs.. , , . 11  M , . league finally is clarified, and with Also to be considered is the gratify-and departed for the not-so-happ* hunting grounds of the armed forces. some surprising results. One of the ing fact that no one has been seriWhen you read this I shall probably be wearing a uniform and perhaps Delt teams, Gamma Phi Mu, and ously killed yet this year. Heres
have overcome my first attack of ^cute nostalgia. That will not be easy, for the SAE group are heading for a your chance, guys. Get in there and
my stay at Carnegie Tech was trly wonderful; how much so, I realize show-down battle on December 4. grunt,
only now. I would like to state why I had such a good time, but that isnt past results indicate that neither
easy. It was not due to any one or more specific things, but, rather, to an team will have lost a game at that Tennis
aggregate of hundreds of swell events and incidents, of little joys and time; that epic game, therefore, will ^e comPlete results of the seclittle griefs. The bridge games and bull sessions in the Canteen, myto decide the championship. onc* round of the intramural table
medelightful intrusions into the j&rama Department, above all, my work Gamnia Phi Nus established ^enn^s tournament have been poston the Tartan, the Liaison Committee and other activities, all this together their championship of the Delt ec* ^WO men Augie Binder and
with many, many other things too numerous to mention here, will oblit- house on November 17 by dropping ^*ave Saylor, have advanced to the
erate all memories of long hours of homework, flunked exams, and boring Zeta Pi 21-16 21-8. On the fol- round each without playing a
classes, and make my departure from C. I. T. very difficult indeed. lowing Monday the rejuvenated an?e' Those who passed their
Even after I have left ther^ will be things around Carnegie Tech SAEs established their claim to initial teBt were Johnson, Jones,
which will make me either extremely glad ormore likelymad, and so leadership by halting the Alleyrats Aisenberg, Mast, Candas, Eschenyou will hear from me occasionally in this column. But until I shall be under scores of 21-17 and 21-13. The bach; those who drew byes into the
back in person, thanks for everything, and au revoir. SAE game with Cameron Hall, se)nd roundwere Corey Bokman,
E.A.L. scheduled for Thanksgiving day. Fleck, Fritz Umbach, and Kmg^
------------------------------------------------ was postponed. Last Tuesday the The doubles results from the first
So Lons, Ernie Theta Xis tightened their grip on round are also in. Eschenbach and
This is the last issue of the Tartan in which vou wll see the initials the cellar by falling before the Johnson are to play Saylor and Gil-ims is tne last issue oi tne lartan m wmcn you wii see me iniuais { * and almost clinch- lesPie> and Corey and Candas will
E. A. L. beneath an editorial. The editor who made this paper once again Uamma  s S~. ^  cunen Jones for entrance
the force on campus that a real college newspaper should be, the student ed ^e position on Friday by g!g . , , round
who set in motion the machinery Which has set the Carnegie Tech on the ^e SAE s feeble opposition. The
road to real post war progress, and the boy who stimulated campus life other action last week saw Badminton
in its every phase to achieve greater and more democratic goals has gone *** *a^e a severe beating at t e Rackets and shuttlecocks are now
to fight for freedom and progress on another front. hands of th Alleyrats by 21-1 and available at the gym office for anyErnie Lowenstein has been at Carnegie Tech for only one year and j* one t P^aY badminton.
seven months. In that time he has done more for the school than has many an in^s* w _ These were purchased in the hope
a good man in four years. Because he came from a country which offered 3 0 some ^n^eres^e<^ students would
none of the opportunities to its citizens which the United States offers to ppxr ................ ......................3 n S^r.^ ^ourts are marked out
us, he was disgusted by our complacent acceptance of our blessings and A11 ............................o 1 *n thistle Hall and the girls
our unwillingness to see that our destiny lies in obtaining opportunities r 6^ra S Vr'ii..........................1 1 Sym> which will be available beeven greater than our own for all the peoples of the world. He couldnt pip0ron .......................0 o tween four and six on Tuesday and
understand how a people with such traditions as our could permit intoler- tv ..........................................0 4 Friday and any other hours in
ar^ce and bigotry to rule us. So the first thing he did for Carnegie was to * ........................................... which no classes are scheduled.
write the Outlook in the Carnegie TARTAN, in which he tried to make Wrestling More important, the darn thing is
the students on campus aware of their duties to the world. Coach ReiSdorph has sent out a co-ed (don t push, boys), and the
 .. ~ , , * . ., . . . , . call for mdre wrestlers. At present boys are rated about twice as goodEveryone thought the Outlook was a wonderful idea, but the students a . .. . K cr,nr.t. , , i< i* t *  .i. * u * there ar about ten men out for the as the girls at this sport,soon began to tell Mr. Lowenstein that before we go out to reform the lllCAC
world we should clean up a bit at home. But Ernie hadnt'been idle on 1 T f-f- T1 lJtm
that front either. He had already gotten the faculty and students interest- J-iCt JL O X HO JjQllOr
ed in a new organization, the Student-Faculty Liaison Committee, which ,, _ ^u u T 4.-  1 t i * n l i x- v Mv dear Miss Simon: We have not had a group with so
s,r.   * h!gressive innovations for after the war. you for more than a week to teU You were forunate t0 have secur.
Carnegie Tech has not been entirely unappreciative of Ernies worth, you how much we, in the Wabash t^e cooperation of the Navy, and
Aside from his editorship of the paper, he was chosen as Consul by his Building, appreciate the efforts of they added real gaiety to the operafraternity, Tau Delta Phi, tapped by PiDE last spring, elected Chairman yourself and those with whom you tion here. While that is not our chief
of this semesters AC AC, tapped to Tau Beta Pi this fall. were associated, in securing us the aim in life, anything that produces
Despite all the crusading our Editor has done he is really a swell guy. fjne group of blood donors from merriment in connection with ones
The gang around the office will remember him most for the bull sessions Tech. work does not come amiss,
on everything from a to s, the way hed take off his coat and pitch in and x know it must have been a great I am sure you'must have a great
work with the proletariat on those scorching hot Sundays in July, the deal of work on the part of your personal satisfaction in the results
time he was so embarrassed when in the middle of his egg Foo Young committee, for nothing as success- of your efforts. Thank you again on
at the Gardens he suddenly woke up to the fact that he was only four ful as your project could have en- behalf of the Blood Donor Service,
hours late for a talk he had promised to give, those times he spent hours tailed anything but a great deal of and will you please convey our
scaring up a bummed cigarette and then had to borrow a match, the work The scheduling was perfectly gratitude to your committee,
briefcase and bookbag left trustfully leaning against a tired bulletin board done> and the number of no Yours sincerely,
in the Tartan office, the way he looked peering over the top of a very shoWs, i. e., those who did not keep Helen S. McKeag,
fatigued lampshade, the fights over policy he and Perry used to have in their appointments, was negligible. Blood Donor Service,
the good old days, the way he looks when youve underbid, or overbid, or
lost a trick, and a million other little things that make up a very swell A T 1 T
person.    lTIHllllCo   
Well, whatever you may be missing when youre in that khaki Ernie, Fifty-ninth Meeting Permanent Decorations
just remember that well be waiting til you come back. And after all, November 29, 1944. Mr. Pollock moved that Interhonorary
you did get initiated into Dudbok! The meetin* was called to order at 5:15 Council be granted permission to use ther* T P,m' permanent decorations for the dance on ______________________________________________________________________Present: Messrs. Daniels, Pollock, and December 9, 1944 provided that they will
Opinion txprextd in the of the TARTAN re tho* of tht mmber. of Wit ^any breakageUJt i I# CMC / the editerl column they ere thooe of the Editor. They e/re not avt>o Motion carried.I be tonetrue  ncMftrily the opinion of either the twUnt body or the frculty. COMMITTEE REPORTS It was decided that Mr. Snow should- Budgets discuss with Mr. Miller the possibility of
Miss Brooks moved that the following his handling the permanent decorations
rf [n Pnrnpffip l il rtii n budgets be approved as submitted: Army- belonging to A.C.A.C.5 ai lull Civilian Activities Council, Grants-In-Aid, Women's Guild
CMMftt iMMtat* ( TNkitUn, MMUr rrfc, Mttekargh it. Ft. Tartan, 1945 Thistle, Student Handbook, Miss Brooks moved that Womens GuildvaoxB aumowv Vo ** rao lo.38. asi Womens Glee Club, Mens Glee Club, be granted permission to hold a Tag Day- - Carnegie Womens Christian Association, on Monday, December 11, 1944, the pro T- ^ MATtMAL ^ N9CA QiBce Hour Call Margaret Morrison Senate, Technical, ceeds of which will be added to theirRNENoG * ------ lnr Cwens, Womens Guild, Womens Dormi- scholarship fund. 'HZ * E4ttor-ta-Wei......... Kmmm ltM tory Council, Mortor Board, Kiltie Band. Motion carried.
An Tm_ m y Bmtmtee Maurer Jseksoa MH Motion carried. Publications Committee
Constitutional Committee It was decided that A.C.A.C. should ask
I. mm a-..  . . . , .... Miss Bauer moved that the considera- the Publications Committee to elect a new
___-*r hiM nini r- TirrTg1 tllt,rl 4___tion of the proposed constitution be tabled representative to A.C.A.C. to replace Mr.
-mitin Tart ILU pm rme. until a later date when Mr. Murphy will Lowenstein.,b invited to discuss the changes with the Adjournment.Committee. Respectfully submitted,Editor-in-Chief ..................................................................................... Adxline C. Herlick Motion carried. (signed) Berenice Barclay,
Burineej Manegtr ..................................................................................... Pul Schvcker NEW BUSINESS ____ Secretary.
3 ~ ___________ TO f AMMMOM TAMTAM TUESDAY, DECEMBER 5, 1944

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, DECEMBER 5, 1944THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
fie
Prominent in all campus activities 
and with a thumb in every pie is 
DaViS Jones. Combining scholarship 
with participation in lots of activi
ties, Dave has won for himself an 
enviable position.
Its going to take a lot of paper 
blit here we go with that expected 
list of activities. Well, first of all,
r* .*; : - - V  ' -j . ... "Dave is president of Delta Upsilon, 
Eta Kappa Nu, Interhonorary Coun
cil, and the Y cabinet. He is cor
responding secretary of Tau Beta 
Pi and treasurer of Council of Fra
ternity Presidents. He is also a mem
ber of Phi Kappa Phi, Pi Delta Ep
silon, and Student Faculty Liaison 
Committee. Before this semester 
Dave was also Business Manager of 
the Technical. ,
When he graduates next April, 
Davis is planning to get a job as an 
electrical engineer. Later on he 
hopes to be able to get some busi
ness training and specialize in sales 
or personnel work in an administra
tive position.
Enjoying all sports, Dave has par
ticipated in all intramural sports 
since he has been at Tech. Listing 
dating as his favorite pasttime, Dave 
also finally admitted that he enjoy
ed playing bridge and ping pong.
AIKEN-FORBES 
TAILORING CO.
CLEANING and PRESSING 
ALTERING and REPAIRING 
We Call and Deliver 
5817 Forbes street HAzel 3601
Let's go to
ISALY'S
MILK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM COIMES
KLOND 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Storta in the College 
District 
680$ Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Allies
 . . Dave Jones
Really quite a bridge fan, he has 
entered the coming tournament.
When he finds time, he enjoys 
reading. His preference is for his
torical novels, and a couple of par
ticular favorites are Three Harbors, 
and A Tale of Two Cities.
Deanna Durbin and Fred McMurray are his favorite screen 
stars. Claiming that he didnt get 
to listen to the radio enough to have 
any favorite comedians or programs, 
Dave finally admitted that he did 
listen frequently to dance music. 
Woody Herman is his favorite band 
leader at the moment, but Tommy 
Dorsey is running second in a 
mighty close race.
M.M.C.C. Senate 
Presents Gala Party
As its first social event of the win
ter season, the Margaret Morrison 
Senate will hold a Winter Carnival, 
December 6, for the students and 
faculty of Maggie Murph. The Car
nival will be held at Recreation 
Hall on the fourth floor of Margaret 
Morrison Building between 7:30 and 
10:30.
One of the many features of this 
party will be the magician, Dr. Mascaro, who was with the great 
Thurston for about thirteen years. 
He has traveled both in the United 
States and Europe on many tours 
and at the present time has formed 
a company of his own. He will in
clude in his repertoire some tricks 
that will baffle the best guessers. 
Besides all this, there will be lots 
of food and fun.
The Chairman of the party, Helen 
Miller, promises a good time to all 
who come, so why dont all you 
Maggie Murphs come out for it 
this Wednesday night?
YOUR CHOICEOF A BANK 
MAY BE THE BEGINNING 
OF A LONG AND USEFUL 
ASSOCIATION
MELLON 
NATIONAL BANK
IN0URANCK CORPORATION
You And Your 
Out-of-Town Friends
will find comfortable 
accommodations
HOTEL 
WEBSTER HALL
Be sure to make your reservations 
well in advance, particularly for
WEEK END VISITS 
Tech Service Men and Women Are 
Especially Welcome
4415 FIFTH AVENUE 
MAyflower 77M
Carols To Be Sung 
In Christmas Chapel
Many impressive and familiar 
Carols will be sung by the student 
body at the Christmas Chapel 
Service on Tuesday, December 12, 
at 11:00 oclock in the Foyer of the 
Fine Arts Building. It will not be 
just another assembly because the 
program has as its theme something 
of universal interestthe Spirit of 
Christmas.
Following the Organ Prelude, and 
Pastoral Symphony from The Mes
siah several Carols will be sung 
by the student body. Then a Scrip
ture Reading will be given by Rob
ert Gill. Featured in the remainder 
of the program are an inspiring 
rendition of a favorite Christmas 
Carol by the chorus; a timely mes
sage by President Doherty and sev
eral more familiar carols. The 
Christmas Service will be conclud
ed by a prayer led by President 
Doherty in keeping with the Spirit 
of Christmas.
Music School Faculty 
Presents Program
Gosta Anderson and Selmer Janson, members of the Music Depart
ment faculty, will present their fifth 
sonata recital, Sunday, December 
10, at 8:15 P. M. in the Theatre, Col
lege of Fine Arts.
The program will be:
Sonata in A major............J. S. Bach
Sonata in D minor, op. 103. .Brahms 
Sonata Virginienesque, op. 7........
................................... John Powell
Tickets, which are required for 
admission, may be obtained free of 
charge at the Music Office, Arts 153.
Cwen Tag Day Receipts 
Go To Endowment Fund
The receipts from the recent 
Cwen Tag Day, amounting to $60, 
will be contributed to the Carnegie 
Endowment Fund. The money will 
be presented to Dr. Doherty by 
Margaret Harris, the president of 
Cwens. The Cwens wish to thank 
the student body.
> S \ ' <, ' & ?:^ ^ 'V v, , -  S , > y.y.y... , SS /  '
-  2%'"> -  i - .y
MfS,.-
NEW CAMERA "SHOOTS" 
FLYING PROJECTILES
MVV
^^HEN Army ballistics experts needed to photograph 
speeding rockets, scientists at Bell Telephone Labora
tories built the special "ribbon-frame camera. Their 
experience came from making high speed cameras to 
study tiny movements in telephone equipment parts.
The new camera gets its name from the narrow slot 
that exposes a ribbon of film at a speed of one tenthousandth of a second. These "stills, taken on 
ordinary film, show a fast flying P-47 firing its underwing rocket.
This is an example of the many ways Bell System 
research is helping to provide better weapons, better 
equipment for war and peacetime telephone service.
m
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
\VW v\
Service to the Nation in Peace and War
One ot the Boys

---------------------------------------------------

THE, 0ARNEOIE TARTANTUESDAY, DECEMBER 5, 1944The Plaid
Evening Students 
Thanksgiving Dance 
Highly Successful
Well, we could start this item by 
writing that the post-Thanksgiving 
Dance was a huge success, but of 
course, you already know that. The 
number of evening school students 
who attended was amazing, al
though an additional 20 or 30 un
attached members of the male sex 
would have been more than wel
come to take care of the girls who 
were theredateless. Whats the 
matter, fellows. Come to the future 
dances and meet the lovely gals.
Contrary to popular belief the 
servicemen didnt let us down. 
Their absence was due to the fact 
that a large number of them were 
trasferred two days before the 
dance and took all the posters ad
vertising the affair with them. As a 
result, the incoming sailors knew 
nothing about the dance. Dont be 
discouraged, girls, we promise to 
have more men for you in the fu
ture.
Aside from that, the orchestra 
was good, the crowd was large and 
everyone had a nice time.
The novelty dance, instigated by 
Steve Marcinizyn, was unusual to 
say the least.
Plans for Second Annual 
Christmas Dinner Dance
With the Christmas Season just 
around the corner, our thoughts 
turn to the Annual Christmas Din
ner Dance, which was inaugurated 
last year. The affair last year was 
a huge success and again promises 
to be the high light of the coming 
festive season.
The plans are still just in the 
blueprint stage, but a number of 
places are being considered for the 
location of this affair. This will be 
a combined Evening Student Council-Interfraternity dance. The Fra
ternities contacted are Phi Nu, Nu 
Sigma Alpha and Sigma Delta Phi. 
The time most desired is during 
the Holiday Season, or after the 
holidays.
So start saving your pennies and 
watch the Plaid for the date and 
further details.
^JecU Receive*. Qift
Jones and Laughlin Steel Cor
pora has given $100,000 to Carnegie 
Institute of Technology.
H. E. Lewis, Chairman of the 
Board and President of J. & L., ex
plained, in announcing the gift, that 
Carnegie Tech trained men and 
women are filling increasingly im
portant roles in the industrial,
The Plaid
Editor 
Joseph M. Rymar
New* EditorMary de Marla Associate Editor*
Ruth McGraw Arlene McMurray
Par* edited by Evening School Stadenta of Car* nefie Institute of Technology. All views of opinions expressed in editorial coiamn are not necessarily endorsed by the Editorial Board of the Day School Staff.
Staff
Olive Baumgardner Florence Chorba Virginia Ehnl Thelma Kitchen Irene Koemer 
8. W. Marcinizyn
Fred Vichlch
Elaine Martin Frank Mihelich 
Dorothy Papa Milton Ryan Dorothy Shield 
Lola Schults
The Social Committee had some 
expert help in their attempt to 
supply the gals who came to the 
Thanksgiving Dance unescorted 
with partners. Two of the sailors 
stationed on the campus, who were 
busily engaged in their SP duties, 
agreed to try to round-up some of 
the gobs who had just arrived. 
Unfortunately, the boys were un
able to find anyone who hadnt 
made previous arrangements, and 
the girls had to resort to borrowing 
somebody elses husband for a dance 
now and then. Mary Marcinizyn 
considered herself lucky if she was 
able to talk to Steve for a few min
utes between his dances with the 
rest of the girls, and Evelyn Rymar 
found the competition here at school 
so great that she is contemplating 
an attempt to have Joe discontinue 
his education . . . We all wonder 
why Art (Casanova) Stella hasnt 
been to class for the past few weeks. 
It could be a certain someone keep
ing him away? ... If anyone needs 
a good model, look up Prof. Bill 
Libby of P&D on Monday evenings 
... At last we have found why 
Dot Shields was inspired to take 
that Voice and Speech class this 
semester. It seems Dot has been try
ing to make an impresison on a 
friend of hers who is a broadcaster 
from New York. Incidentally, her 
friend visited Pittsburgh recently 
and noticed her improvement in 
speech.
_____________________________i_______
civic and cultural life of Western 
Pennsylvania.
The gift is one of the result of an 
endowment drive in which Tech has 
been given slightly more than 
$2,500,000. The Carnegie Corpora
tion of New York is giving $2.00 for 
every one contributed by other 
sources.
Robert E. Doherty, President of 
Carnegie Tech declared that The 
gift of the Jones & Laughlin Steel 
Corporation is greatly appreciated. 
It brings Carnegie nearer to realiza
tion of its endowment goal.
Staff Attends Banquet
The third annual Publications 
Banquet was held on November 27, 
at the Royal York dining room. A 
very delicious meal was served con
sisting of fruit-sherbet cocktail, 
mixed vegetable salad, creamed 
chicken on toast, mashed potatoes, 
peas, sherbet, and coffee.
The banquet was sponsored by 
Pi Delta Epsilon.
The speakers of the evening were 
Mr. E. E. McDonald, who is Grand 
Executive Secretary-Treasurer of 
the National Chapter and the greet
ing was given by him. Miss Gladys 
Schmitt, who is a teacher and writ
er, spoke on the difference between 
fiction and journalistic writing. Mr. 
T. P. Bokman, President of the fra
ternity, acted as master of ceremon
ies.
Basketball ..
Continued from, page 1 
play certainly earned him the title 
of Techs most valuable. This 
honor on the Slippery Rock side was 
easily garnered by lanky Whitey 
Seyman, who coached the team on 
the floor and played their most con
sistent ball. The Tech team played 
what look liked apathetic ball, with 
the forwards charging feebly, and 
the back court defense waddling 
back and forth aimlessly. Several 
times, the Slippery Rock guards 
split the outer defense and ran a 
center down the middle to the 
basket, whose guard refused to 
budge out toward them. This suc
ceeded until the end of the game, 
and no adjustment was made.
The box score:
Tech FG F T S. Rock FG F T
Clougherty ... 1 2 3Solak ............... 1 0 2Katselas .'.... 0 0 0Ortman ...... 1 1 3Klein ..............2 1 5McElwain ___ 2 0 4Scioscia ........1 0 2Barkley .......... 0 1 1Theodore .... 6 3 15Seyman ........ 5 3 13Sherb .............. 1 0 2Bartoni _____0 1 1Snyder .......... 0 0 0Sedlak ........... 0 1 1
Morinello ___0 0 0
11 6 279 7 25
Soph Frosh Party ...
Continued from page 1 
ed a so-called little sister for the 
affair so that every Freshie will be 
well taken care of and will have an 
opportunity to meet the girls at the 
party.
An entertainment has been plan
ned for the evening in which the 
upperclassmen hope to show their 
abilities in the theaterical field. 
Rumor has it that there will be a 
bit of food about the premises.
Mary Jane Horridge will direct 
the proceedings as Social Chair
man, and Jean Boltey, Lou Emmel, 
Maggie Harris, Helen Miller, Jean 
Price, and Charlotte Young will as
sist her as chairman of various 
committees.
COMPLIMENTS OF
Pitt-Tech 
College Spoon
429 Craig St., OaklandSC. 9048
SEEMILLER
DAIRY STORE *
417 Craig St. 
Milkshakes and Sandwiches
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St HA. 0193
RODGERS
DAIRY STORES
MILK SHAKES
Made from Pure Whole Milk for 
only 15o
We Do Not Use Skim Milk.
NEAREST STORES LOCATED
------AT------
3905 FORBES STREET
Near Bouquet Street
4619 CENTER AVENUE
Near Cralf Street
Dr. Teare ...
Continued from page 1 
Tech since 1939 when he came to 
direct a program of advanced study 
in electrical engineering. This pro
gram was made possible by a Buhf 
Foundation grant of $50,000 over 
five-year period. Since the Georg, 
Westinghouse professor, Douglas J 
Miner, has been in the Army, Dr, 
Teare has supervised the Westing, 
house Scholars and their programs
Before coming to Carnegie Tech 
Dr. Teare was instructor and assist 
ant professor of electrical engineering at Yale University. Prr to go. 
ing to Yale, Dr. Teare was employe 
by the General Electric Company 
He holds the Bachelor of Science 
and Master of Science from the Uni. 
versity of Wisconsin along with thi 
Doctor of Engineering degree from 
Yale.
Professor Teare is an active mem. 
ber of the Society for the Promotioi 
of Engineering Education and the 
American Institute of Engineering, 
He is also the author of many pa. 
pers in the field of electrical engi. 
neering. He is a member of Signy 
Xi, Eta Kappa Nu, Phi Mu Alphi 
Sinafonia, Tau Beta Pi, Phi Kapp 
Phi, and Kappa* Eta Kappa. rft\ 
Teare is a member of the Sigm, 
Phi Epsilon social fraternity.
Notice
The final meeting of the members 
of the Carnegie Tartan staff will be 
held next Friday evening, Decent 
ber 8, at 7:30 p. m. in the Tartan 
office. Will everyone please try ti 
be prompt.
KEEP FAITH; with usj \by buying'-. 
WAR BONDS
WOODLAWN 
PHARMACY
The Campus Drug Store 
HA. 6300 5200 Forbes St.
Fort Pitt is the Place 
to Rent
TYPEWRITERS
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
