The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 38 No. 47____________________ CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA. TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 1945
A. C. South American Dance 
Proves Success of Semester
Carnegie Downed 
By Juniata, 60-57
After trailing for the entire game, 
Carnegie Tech tied the score of 
their game with Juniata at VVoVl 
with two minutes to go, but lost by 
60-57.
Things really looked down on 
the Tartan cause at first. Juniata got 
off to an early lead and sat com
fortably on the 21-9 count in their 
favor at the end of the first period. 
At this point Morinello and Acker
man worked to get Tech back in the 
game, and allowed Juniata to gain 
only one point for the period. The 
halftime score was 37-24, still close 
enough to give Tech rooters (all 
three of them) hope. As usual, we 
tried for our Garrison finish and al
most made it. Working Ackerman 
overtime both on the floor and un
der the basket, Max shouted the 
team back and forth. All their ef
forts picked us up a few points and 
Juniata led by only 45-38 at the end 
of the third session. For a few mo
ments the battle was see-saw, then 
a Tech spurt tied the score with 
two minutes to go. Dick Wareham, 
Juniata ace, here bore down and put 
the game away with a field ^oal 
and two fouls.
Its amazing that Tech did close 
the gap in that last quarter any
way, because they were playing de
fensive ball, not following up shots, 
more with a pass and a prayer. The 
revamped team seems to be a pretty 
good supporting cast, but doesnt 
seem to have any player to support. 
Ackerman will probably develop in
to that man, but it will take a little 
time.
Dick Wareham had his usual 
number of points, seventeen, to keep 
his average of near eighteen per 
game. This average, by the way, 
makes him the leading collegiate 
scorer in the Western Pennsylvania 
district.
Informal Square Dances 
Planned for Mar. 2, 3
Thistle Hall will soon again be the 
scene for a dance, in fact two 
dances. On March 2 and 3, Square 
Dances will be held there from 8:30 
to 11:00. Tickets for the affair will 
be on sale at 50c a piece at the 
Y. W. C. A. on Dithridge Street, and 
also at the door on both evenings. 
Since the number of people will be 
limited to one-hundred each night, 
it would be wise to see about tick
ets as soon as possible.
The head of the Century Dance 
Society of America will act as Caller 
both evenings. He has been at Berea, 
Kentucky, where he has been doing 
some research on American Folk
lore.
Notice
Holders of subscription books for 
the Thistle,, please turn them in on 
Friday, March 2, in Room 232 IH.
CIT Favorite Girl 
Chosen by Students 
On March 5 and 7
The War Stamp Committee has 
announced that on March 5 and 7 
every person buying two stamps 
will receive ballots to vote for one 
feature of the face of the C.I.T. 
Favorite Girl..
Those voting at the booth in In
dustries Hall will select the pret
tiest lips, those in Arts, the prettiest 
nose, those in M.M.C.C., the prettiest 
eyes, and those in the Canteen, the 
prettiest hair. The Tartan will then 
publish a composite picture of the 
selected features which will repre
sent the C.I.T. Favorite Girl.
When the booths closed last Wed
nesday, the records showed that 
$519.50 of the required $3,430 had 
already been taken in. There are 
only nine weeks left in which to 
raise the rest of the money. Its up 
to you to do it.
Oratorical Contest 
Opens On Campus
It has been announced this week 
that plans are underway for the 
1945 William Randolph Hearst Na
tional Oratorical Contest. The topic 
this year will be JAMES MADISON 
AND THE MONROE DOCTRINE.
The local contest is open to stu
dents of colleges in Pittsburgh and 
Allegheny County. This contest will 
be closed with the National Finals 
on or about April 15. In the local 
contest the first prize will be a $250 
War Bond, second prize will be a 
$100 War Bond, third prize a $75 
War Bond, fourth prize a $50 War 
Bond and fifth and sixth prizes, two 
$25 War Bonds. Local prizes will be 
presented by the Pittsburgh SunTelegraph to the six winners.
Carnegie Tech won last years lo
cal contest. Anyone interested 
in entering or desiring more infor
mation about this contest should see 
Mr. KirkPatrick in his office in IH 
227.
Citcom Clan Plans Dinner 
At Union on March 3
An eatnsee dinner for all Citcomers is being planned by the Cit
com Clan for Saturday, March 3, at 
5:30 in the Carnegie Union. Accord
ing to the co-chairmen, Sammy 
Martin and Peggy Grossman, it will 
be a buffet supper. The clan has in
vited the Tecvets to be their guests 
at this affair. A movie downtown 
will wind up the activities of the 
evening.
All Tech commuters are invited to 
join the Clan. Anyone interested 
should either get in touch with Bill 
Poirer, LE. 2649, or leave a note in 
Citcoms mailbox.
Help Wanted
After being nosed out 60-5 in an 
Intra-Mural Basketball Game last 
Wednesday evening Cameron Hall 
pleads for basketball players. Ex
perience preferred but not essential. 
Apply Cameron rfall, 5029 Morewood Place.
All School Election 
Will Be Held Mar. 20
Spring elections for Class Officers, 
Activities Council Representatives, 
and M. M. Senate will be held on 
March 20. Any candidate desiring 
nomination should present a peti
tion to the Committee on Elections 
by noon of March 6. These petitions, 
the blanks for which may be ob
tained from the Deans office, 
should b signed by 25 members of 
the school that the candidate wishes 
to represent arid should also bear 
the signature of the nominee. No 
person can sign more than one peti
tion and candidates must be full 
time undergraduate students.
As a basis for more informed stu
dent judgment, Activities Council 
suggests that each candidate submit 
a statement concerning his policies. 
The nominees names and theil pol
icies will appear in the Tartan
Intramural Basketball 
Plays Big Games Wed.
-The lid was ripped off the intra
mural basketball season this week 
in fine shape, and some wild and 
wooly games resulted. All of the ac
tion took place on Wednesday even
ing.
Festivities were opened as the 
Betas downed a spirited TX five in 
the closing seconds of the game by
27-25. The TXs held a slight lead 
throughout, but weakened in the 
closing moments. Meanwhile, the 
Wrecks were romping through 
Cameron Hall, and swished the 
cords to the merry tune of 60-5! The 
mens dorm has sent out a call for 
basketball players, at good wages 
and short hours. All applicants call 
Cameron Hall.
A formidable Delt team had lit
tle trouble in downing DU by a 27- 
14 count. The Delts, boasting five 
tall starters, missed a tremendous 
number of shots, but won handily 
over the hapless DUs. The Techvets, 
scheduled to play the SAEs that 
night, withdrew their team. The 
SAEs will sally forth this season to 
defend their championship of 1944. 
Whether their heterogenious out
fit can meet the challenge of the rol
licking Wrecks or the big Delt team 
will soon be decided.
WAA Sponsors Party 
For Campus Swimmers
The Womans Athletic Associa
tion is sponsoring a Swimming 
Party to be held this Thursday, 
March first from 7:00 to 9:00 in the 
Gym.
Arrangements for the affair are 
being taken care of by Mortar 
Board. The organization hopes that 
everyone will come out, have a good 
swim and get acquainted with the 
other swimmers on campus.
Perhaps the most successful dance 
of the year was held at Thistle Hall 
last Saturday night after the Juniata-Carnegie Tech basketball game. 
The excited people moved over the 
colorfully decorated dance floor to 
dance to the music of Juke Box and 
his Merry Makers.
To help mix the crowd, DickHerrmann, acting as Master of Ceremon
ies, announced a Paul Jones. This 
means that the girls get in a circle 
inside a circle of boys, and when the 
music starts they move in different 
directions. Then everyone gets a 
partner when the music stops.
Among the surprises planned by 
the committee was a huge box tied 
to the rafters containing small items 
of interest, such as marbles and 
jacks. Each prize was attached to a 
string hanging down to the floor. At 
a given signal each girl was to pull 
a string, and thus receive a prize. 
However, something went amiss 
and the box with prizes remained 
quite secure until some persuasion 
was used.
Dancing was then resumed until 
the wee small hour of 1:00. Chap
erones present at the dance were 
Dean Yon, and Mr. and Mrs. Elliot.
Service Fund Drive 
Opens On March 6
The World Student Service Fund 
Drive will open March 6, 1945 with 
a Chapel. The drive will benefit 
one-third of the student prisoners 
of war, one-third of the Chinese stu
dents, and the rest will be distribut
ed to students of other countries.
The speaker for the opening 
chapel will be Dr. Homer C. Loh. 
He was born in Huchow and was an 
undergraduate in the Suchow Uni
versity of China. In 1939 he came to 
the United States and attended 
Crozer University in Chester, Penn
sylvania, University of Pennsylva
nia, and Chicago University. He re
ceived in 1941 a certificate in Religi
ous Education from Crozer, and his 
Masters Degree in Sociology from 
the University of Pennsylvania. Dr. 
Loh is general secretary of the Chin
ese students Christian Association 
of North America.
The general chairman of the Car
negie Institute of Technology com
mittee is Alberta Bruns. Other com
mittees will be headed by Jo Sunseri, Scottie Atkinson, and Frances 
Quill.
Cwens, Soph. Honorary, 
Plan Frosh Coke Party
The annual Cwens coke parties 
for the Freshmen will be held 
March 6, 7, 8, between 4 and 6 at the 
Carnegie Union. The freshman girls 
in all three schools will receive in
vitations designating which day 
they are to attend. The Cwens wish 
to get acquainted with the Fresh
man during these informal parties.

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 1945
iZdUtosiX AnmcltcU/iProportional Representation
The Reason Why
In response to several questions, comments and outright villifications, 
we should like to explain why there will not be a Spring Carnival this year.
To begin with, it is not as seriously a matter of politics as everyone 
seems to think. It is not a case of fraternities against sororities, or the 
Activities Council against the students, or the administration against the 
students. It is simply a matter of dates.
These dates are not the kind one usually thinks of when talking about 
a dance, but rather calendar dates. The affair, obviously cannot be organ
ized and executed in two weeks  therefore, March 17th cannot be con
sidered. On March 24th, another all-school dance will be scheduled. The 
following week-end is out because of Good Friday and Easter. For April 
7th the gym has been reserved for College Board Examinations. And April 
14th is the last Saturday before final exam week for junior and senior 
engineers. Therefore, no time  no Carnival.
The argument has been raised that the Carnival can be held in Thistle 
Hall. Those who remember the old carnivals will consider it just a dance, 
and the others, who have never been to a Carnegie Tech carnival, will, we 
fear, be greatly disappointed. For a carnival is not just a dance. It is a 
week-end affair, starting usually on Friday night with a big dance in the 
gym. Then, all day Saturday is taken by Call Day, booths in Thistle Hall, 
and races and contests on the campus. Saturday night is spent in both the 
gym and Thistle Hall. And so, naturally, a dance in Thistle Hall called 
Spring Carnival would not really be a carnival at all.
Although no one person or group can be blamed for the absence of 
Spring Carnival this year, we might say that if plans had been started last 
semester the date-confusion would not have arisen. Maybe we had better 
start planning a Fall Carnival now. (Gentle Hint.)
Simple Suggestion
If you were at the South American Party, last Saturday, we hope you 
will agree with us; if you werent, we hope you feel sorry for yourself.
It was by far the best stag dance we have seen in the three years we 
have been at Carnegie Tech. This we believe was not due merely to the fact 
that the number of men greatly exceeded that of the women, but also to the 
informal atmosphere sponsored by the South American theme. Those who 
knew each other before renewed old acquaintances; those who had just met 
renewed womans faith in man.
But, although the party was essentially a success, there were several 
sour notes. Refreshments, for example, were sadly lacking. We cannot 
believe that their absence was due to a shortage of coke or a truck drivers 
strike. JNI -
The Activities Council should be very happy about their dance, but 
they should have started holding dances at the beginning of the basketball 
season instead of at the end. But now that they have started, we are 
looking forward to more and more of them.
Post Mortem
As you walk out of the Canteen, you cant help but notice a black and 
gold board bearing the Kappa Alpha Theta letters on the wall. On it may 
be tacked a few notes or announcements. The board serves its purpose well 
for there is hardly a Theta who does not go into the Canteen at some time 
or other.
The Thetas have the right idea, so right that we wonder why the other 
sororities and fraternities havent done the same. If they did now, however, 
their efforts would result in cluttered walls and general confusion. Seven 
fraternities, seven sororities, Citcom, the Tecvets, and maybe a few other 
groups, establishing bulletin boards in the Canteen seems rather imprac
tical.
Wouldnt one big general board serve as well? With that, the inde
pendents would be able to post messages as well as members of the 
fraternities and sororities. It .would also help to alleviate a possible 
development of cliquishness which might come about if certain tables were 
to be reserved by the boards hanging over them.
We should, then, like to suggest to the Activities Council that they 
establish a large board on some conspicuous panel of the wall of the Can
teen, to be used exclusively by the students for posting notes and announce
ments. Inasmuch as there are only nine weeks left in this semester, the 
sooner the board is raised the better.
This is an inexpensive project, if it may even be called a project, and 
covers the entire student body, of which the Council is representative.
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the 
ftaff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not 
to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh 18, Pa. 
rHONE MAYFLOWER MOO PHONE SCHENLEY 4ft5J
MPMHNTIO FOK NATIONAL ADV*TIINO V Aftd" OffiCC HOUTS Csll
National Advertising Service, Inc. Editor-in-chief ........... Emers 1808
College Publishers Representative
420 madibon ave New York n. y. Business Manager ..... Jackson 9896
CMISA60  BOSTON  LOS AMELCS < SAH FRANCISCO
Entered as second-class matter In tbe Pittsburgh Post OAce under the Act of March S, 18?*.
Published weekly daring school year, except holidays ana examination periods.
Subscription Price (1.10 per yeat.
Editor-in-chief............................ .................................................... Adeline C. Herlick
Business Manager ..................................................  Paul Schucker
The method to be used for the 
election of representatives to Activ
ities Council, known as Proportional 
Representation, is not a new idea al
though it still is not very widely 
known. It is a system which has 
been designed to prevent a minority 
to control a majority of the power 
through capturing a plurality vote. 
By its design, it allows all groups 
representation approximately pro
portional to their actual numbers. 
Where it has been used it has been 
successful in combating evils and 
inefficiency in the government. It is 
not a stranger to Carnegie, having 
been adopted by Student Council, 
January 12, 1943. P. R., as it is famil
iarly known, was not used, since A. 
C. A. C. replaced Student Council 
shortly afterwards.
Essentially, P. R. prevents the 
waste of a persons vote. The voter 
indicates his first, second, third, etc. 
choice by a numeral after the can
didates name. If the ballot is not 
needed for the candidate of his first 
choice, due to the fact that the nom
inee is either already elected or con
clusively defeated, it is given to his 
secondary choice. A candidate is de
clared elected if he has more votes 
than a certain quota, determined by 
dividing the total votes cast by one 
more than the number of positions 
to be filled. Any candidate having 
more than the quota will have his 
surplus votes transferred propor
tionately to the candidates markedas secondary choice. If there are not 
enough elected, the one with fewest 
votes is eliminated, and his votes 
are redistributed according to their 
secondary choices. This process is 
continued until the total number of 
positions is filled.
Although this brief description of 
a scientific means of election ap
pears complicated, it makes the vot
ers job no more difficult. Instead of 
voting only for a candidate consid
ered having a chance, he votes for 
the one whom he considers best, 
with the assurance that his vote will 
not be wasted. It is hoped that this 
will produce better elections and 
fairer representation on Council.
If anyone is interested in going 
more deeply into the subject of 
Proportional Representation, or 
would like to obtain more details on 
its workings, they may contact 
Augie Binder.
Our Humble Opinion
The current play at the Little 
Theater is definitely a pip. It packs 
a heavy wallopbut, although we 
have seen it twice, we havent been 
quite able to decide whether we like 
it or not. Instead of sticking our 
neck out, therefore, we will just tell 
you a little bit about it, mentioning 
its best and worst points, and leave 
you to draw your own conclusions.
To begin with, The Old Ladies has 
only three characters. Such a play 
is of course very demanding both of 
its own story and of the actors. In 
this particular case we think the lat
ter make by far the better showing. 
The very good work done by both 
of the casts we saw was probably 
facilitated by the fact that the 
author seems to have been more in
terested in the characterization of 
his three old ladies than in building 
a powerful story around them. A 
strong, sharply defined character is 
usually easier to portray than a 
vague one. On the other hand, should 
the actress just barely miss in her 
interpretation of such a strong char
acter, the damage to the production 
is much more serious than if a more 
vague personality were misinter
preted. But none of the six girls 
missed.
All the important elements of the 
action are introduced in the first 
scene, and when the curtain goes 
down at the end of it, any experi
enced theater-goer can figure out 
the rest of the story without much 
mistake. The most important factors 
in the plot are the characters of the 
old ladies. One is a neurotic spinster 
who is afraid of everything, a talk
ative, twittery little creature with a 
weak heart. Another is a wild gypsy 
woman, passionately fond of colors 
and of sweet things, intolerant of 
weakness, incapable of sustained ef
fort, fiercely vindictive. The third is 
a well-balanced, calm, quiet, typ
ically English, woman whose sole 
interest in life is her absent son. All
three live together in an old house 
in a small town in England.
The play has a few good laughs, 
and some very tense dramatic 
scenes. Unfortunately, it also has a 
few awkward places which spoil the 
general effect. Of the latter, the 
worst is at the very end when Aga
tha is trying to prevent Lucy from 
leaving the house. At a time when 
there should be some real action, all 
they do is stand in front of the door 
arguing about it. Anyway you take 
it, the ending of the play is far
fetched and unconvincing. Such a 
tense play should have a fully log
ical and believable close; otherwise 
it leaves the audience with that un
comfortable wonder - what-happened-after-the-curtain-went-down feel
ing that the third act curtain of 
The Old Ladies evokes.
Both casts did full justice to the 
opportunities presented by the 
strange characters. Mary Laura 
Woods Miss Beringer was more 
fluttery, and suggested greater age 
than Helen Goodmans. On the other 
hand, Miss Goodman gave an ef
fective touch of hysteria to the end 
of the second act which we did not 
notice in Miss Woods interpreta
tion. We thought Ellen Hovde and 
Kathryn Cook equally capable as 
Lucy Amorest (the balanced one), 
but again had the feeling that Miss 
Hovde was portraying an older 
woman than Miss Cook. Rita Sheinmans gypsy woman was not as gro
tesque as Joan Bowers; which one 
is preferable is a matter of taste. We 
must concede that Miss Sheinman 
didnt frighten us half as much as 
Miss Bower did. Of course the sec
ond time one sees a play one al
ways has a different attitude to
wards it.
Whether one likes it or not, how
everin spite of its shortcomings 
one must admit that The Old Ladies 
is one of the most interesting plays 
of the season.

---------------------------------------------------

... South of the Border ...
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 1945THE CARttEGIE TARTAN
Ever Watchful  Our Chaperones
Mr. and Mrs. Joe Nutter
greening (hate the word pin
ing) for Loo Westwhy cant she 
just forget that paratrooper over 
week-ends anyhow?
. . . Flash from Great Lakes: 
Techites Clark Sloan, Dave Aspinwall, Vince Prus, Jerry Brickman 
and Ed Fritz are continuing their 
education (definitely liberal!) at 
that esteemed resort.
. . . Martha Wagman is looking 
forward to next week-end when 
Alex Scheirmann hits town.
. . . Betty Ann Hirshman went to 
Columbia last week-end, Big Rea
son: Joyce McTighe.
... If youre not doing anything 
in the afternoons, come to the Can
teen and see the show of the century 
featuring Gubee, Casey (You 
Name It Weve Got it) Stine, Ye 
olde Editor, and others of the more 
dignified among us. The expressions 
on the faces of most engineers is 
worth millions.
. . . The Rrrrrufff Girls of the 
Week  Kay Cook, Ruth Pivarotto, 
Phyl Petriken, and Muriel Stickle.
. . . Zzzzzzzzzzz! Snore . . . 
chortle . . . gurgle . . . The heart 
is willing but we can only go so long 
without sleep. To end, may we quote 
my favorite quotation (its accredit
ed to Andrew Carnegie). It goes like 
this, its not the cough that carries 
you offits the coffin they carry 
you off in. Sentimentsentiment 
sediment!
Havin Fun?
The HatSeorita Sad-SackSwing and Sway  Quit Hiding Boris, Jean!
Ho hum . . . Yawn! . . . Yawn! 
Monday night but late . . . Should 
Study . . .Wot the el . . . Broke 
our New Years resolutions weeks 
ago ... No use picking up the pen
cil .. . points broken anyhow . . . 
Last week was too hectic . . . too 
much happened . . . Were still 
thinking about . . .
- . . Ruth File My Teeth And 
Call Me Human Guberman 
jumping out of Canteen window and 
scaring some poor Architect by giv
ing out with the Lauren Bacall stuff 
(You know how to whistle; just 
put your lips together and . . .)
. . . Dick Andre and Lucy Seibert 
proving that the food isnt the 
thing at the Grill.
. . . The Beta leg contest with 
freshman, Johnny Rose walking off 
with top honors. Just what did hap
pen to Hermann? Things can be 
carried too far!
. . . The sudden interest in Tau 
Sigmasignifies something. What, 
were not exactly sure.
. . . Gene Wallace from P.C.W. 
seems to have stolen Paul Shuckers 
heart. (Ed. note: the going seems to 
be rought. Tau Sigma might have 
another member.)
. . . Dramats Alice Skirpin and 
Denise OConnor spending last 
week-end at West Point. (Ten min
ute pause for all the girls to heave 
a sigh!)
. . . Ivan (My heart is in the 
work) Sturman, leaving his date to
take pictures at the S. A. party.
. . . Mike Theodore, in on fur
lough making good time at the same 
party.
. . . The fact that the Chi Omegas 
and the TXs get along so well.
. . . Andy Grooms meeting some
body else too. Ditto with Don 
Poskin.
. . . The One Date With Earl 
Young Club (you have it on his 
best authority) must really have 
developed into something more. 
Sweetheart pins like crazy!
. . . The fact that Dolly Willison 
knows every ensign that enters the 
sacred portals of the canteen.
. . . Whats this about the SAE 
who took five hours to inspect the 
Y-I2ers} Bill Beck and Jack Steele boiler factory?
, , . Cookie Cooks man $ne of 
them) came home for her birthday. 
Send me! (it sent her too!)
, . . Scandal! Fontabelle Herlick has been seen in all the old 
familiar places with Clem Spender. 
They were eating Spanish peanuts 
too!
. . . Everyones extremely happy 
that rushing season is over for 
awhile anyway. Now, the Betas and 
the Delts can be that way again.
. . . Delt DramatWillard Hines 
was back last week. Hes in the 
Army now tho!
. . . Theme song for Sid Berkowitz: What a difference a diet 
makes  Twenty-four little cal
ories ...
... So many boys are everMel Klein  Solitary and Apparently(?) Happy

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 1045
Miss F. Williamson 
Home Ec Club Guest
In line with the general interest 
of the day, the Home Economics 
Club has invited Miss Frances Wil
liams to speak to the Club on The 
Negro And the Community. The dis
cussion on inter-racial problems will 
take place on Wednesday, March
14, at 4:00 P. M. in Recreation Hall 
M. M. C. C.
Miss Williams is a very talented 
person with a superior background 
in education and experience. She 
obtained a Bachelor of Arts Degree 
at Mt. Holyoke college where she al
so achieved the Phi Beta Kappa 
award, and her Masters of Arts De
gree at the University of Chicago. 
Her experience as Inter-racial Ed
ucation Secretary of the National 
Board of the Y. W. C. A. and the 
other work she has done in com
munity organization and social 
work qualify her as a competent 
discussion leader.
Her achievements and honors are 
numerous, Miss Williams has been 
granted many fellowships among 
which are the Patrick Graduate Fel
lowship from Mt. Holyoke and two
Sophomores Hold Bridge
The Sophomores will sponsor a 
second big success, a bridge this Fri
day, March 2, 1945 in the Canteen 
from 8-11. Tickets will be sold for 
a quarter and may be secured from 
Jean Lisle. Charlotte Young is Gen
eral Chairman, and the other com
mittees are as following: Decora
tions: Lou Emmel, Refreshments: 
M. M. Gannon, Publicity: Helen
Miller.
It will be a closed party for the 
Sophomore class. A door prize will 
be offered.
research fellowships from the Uni
versity of Chicago.
Her ambitions to improve racial 
conditions have also manifested 
themselves in a great many pub
lications. Consideration of the Negro 
Member and Techniques in Race 
Relations are just two of many in
teresting and forceful writings on 
one of the worlds foremost social 
problems.
Carnegie Tech is fortunate to 
have secured her as a speaker. 
Everyone on campus is cordially in
vited to attend the discussion.
*1cdeA On KJtcJu . .
Liuetenant George A. Seaman, 
serving as Assistant Control Offic
er in the Troop Equipment Division, 
has been promoted to the rank of 
Captain at the Boston Port of Em
barkation.
Captain Seaman was a student at 
Tech at the time he entered the 
Army as a Private in 1941. He com
pleted the Maintenance Course of 
the Non- Commissioned Officers 
School at the Aberdeen Proving 
Grounds, Maryland, in August 1941, 
and won an appointment to the 
Transportation Corps Officers Can
didate School at State College, Miss., 
where he was graduated as a Sec
ond Lieutenant in April. 1943.
ART CINEMA
809 Liberty Ave. Near Wood
STARTS SATURDAY, MARCH 3 
$1,000,000 Reward To American 
Gangsters For
HitlerDead or Alive
with
Ward Bond, Dorothy Tree 
and Warren Hymer
Ronald Colman in
I Was Faithful
(CYNARA)
AMERICAN CHAIN 
& CABLE CO.
E. G LUDWIG
Electroplating and Refinishing
MILLVALE, PENNSYLVANIA
Braddock, Pennsylvania
You And Your
Out-of-Town Friends 
will find comfortable 
accommodations
HOTEL 
WEBSTER HALL
Be rare to make your reservations 
well In advance, particularly for
WEEK END VISITS
Tech Service Men and Women Are 
Especially Welcome
4415 FIFTH AVENUE 
MAyflower 7700
SEEM1LLER
DAIRY STORE
417 Craig St. 
Milkshakes and Sandwiches
BUY WAR BONDS
Succceding generations of 
many of Pittsburgh'* pioneer 
families open an account at 
the Mellon National Bank as 
a matter of family traditioa 
as soon as they come of age.
MELLON 
NATIONAL BANK
ItfMM R FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION
Lets all refresh... Have a Coca-Cola
...or being friendly along the way
The camaraderie of the open road is summed up in the words 
Have a Coke. At stops, everyone steps up to the familiar red cooler 
for the friendly refreshment of ice-cold Coca-Cola. Wherever 
you go, Coca-Cola stands for the paute that rejrtibet, a symbol 
of friendly refreshment.
ftOTTUD UNDER AUTHORITY OP THI COCA-COLA COMPANY IY 
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY. PITTSBURGH, PA.
You naturally hear Coca-Col 
i called by ita friendly abbreviation 
I'Coke'. Both mean the quality prod
uct of The Coca-Cola Coapa&y---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 1945THE CARNEGIE TARTAN5
WALWORTH COMPANY
GREENSBURG WORKS
Greensburg, Pennsylvania
 
Manufacturers of
Bronze, Malleable and Cast Iron 
Steel Valves and Fittings

---------------------------------------------------

i
THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 1945The Plaid
First Social This
Semester a Success
The Valentine Party held last 
Saturday night at the hut, dec
orated in lovely spring colors, prov
ed to be the most successful social 
event of the season. The ice was 
broken by Paul Jones dances in 
which the visiting sailors lived up 
to their reputations of friendliness.
The outstanding event of the eve
ning was the Broken Hearts dance 
which unveiled a few broken hearts 
at its conclusion. As each person ar
rived at the party they were given 
a numbered heart which was match
ed for partners later in the evening.
Those left unmatched were 
awarded the bright red broken 
heart and became the tag line. No 
one wants to be caught with a 
broken heart so they were passed 
along at a fast rate. Besides dancing 
there were the card fans and a good 
crowd could be seen about the pin 
ball machines.
Refreshments of ham salad, 
cream, pimento and pineapple cheese 
sandwiches, cookies and pop left 
everyone with that more than satis
fied feeling; of a really enjoyable 
evening.
Banquet Tickets on Sale 
Wednesday of This Week
Well, here we are again, plugging 
for the inevitable Engineers Ban
quet. You know, you engineers, this 
is the one big event of the year for 
us, not that the other social func
tions do not count, or have an ap
peal, but that it is the one time 
when we can get together and have 
a real bang up time.
The committee has been working 
to accumulate souveniors, favors, 
door prizes, etc., and at the present 
time there are a number on hand. 
This is very encouraging news as 
this feature of the banquet is a very 
important one. The favors and in
dividual advertising items are al
ways of the highest calibre, they are 
really outstanding.
Then there is the item of a ticket, 
a very important one too. This year 
the assessment is placed at $3.00 per 
person, and when one considers the 
value of these banquets it is a revalation that so much can be offered 
for such a small fee. The tickets 
are to be placed on sale this week. 
The members of the committee will 
have them for sale and they may 
also be obtained at Mr. McKelways 
office 255-C Industries Hall.
The banquet is to be held in the 
Gold Room of Hotel Roosevelt, 
downtown Pittsburgh. This selec
tion is a wise and agreeable on^ for 
the function. Several of the ban
quets have been held there and they 
have always been very successful.
The Plaid
Editor 
Joseph M. Rymar
Newi Editor 
Mary de Maria 
Associate Editors 
Ruth McGraw 
Arlene McMurray
Pace edited by Evening School Students of Car
negie Institute of Technology. All views o 
opinions expressed in editorial eolnmn are aot 
necessarily endorsed by the Editorial Board ot 
the Day School Staff.Staff
Betty Ashcraft E. E. McDonald
Olive Baumgardner Frank Mihelich
Virginia Ehnl Dorothy Papa
S. W. Marcinizyn Leah Van Horn
Frod Vichich
We wonder why Doris of 402B 
Class has an urge to join the Ma
rines. Could be that her one and 
only is in that Corps ... As usual 
Arlene McMurray, Olive Baum
gardner and Virginia Ehni were 
seven minutes late for Psychology 
Class. Tsk, Tsk, Girls . . . Why 
wasnt Frank Mihelich out for 
PLAID work on Friday? ... We 
are sorry to hear that Harold Park 
is ill. Hope you recover soon, Har
old ... It seems that four fellows 
Clair, Fanning, Gassner, Heinzin 
the Heat Power class used a little 
psychology in determining what the 
prof would give in an exam. It evi
dently worked, because they were 
the only ones in the class who 
brush-up on Hirns Analysis . . . 
Will wonders never cease  Jack 
Scarr finally agreed with the 
prof . . .
Swimming Party Mar. 17
If your swimming suit is packed 
away in moth balls, start thinking 
about getting it out. This doesnt 
mean that Spring is hereit just 
means that Tech is having its an
nual swimming party at the gym
nasium pool.
Were letting you know far in ad
vance so you can see how much 
damage the moths have done during 
the winter and, if necessary, beg, 
borrow or steal a suit. However, if 
you have been taking advantage of 
using the pool all winter, (as too 
few evening students have) you 
have nothing to worry about be
cause (1) your suit will be handy,
(2) you know where the pool is, and
(3) the only information you need 
is the date. That well tell you right 
nowits March 17 (St. Patricks 
Day) at 7:30 P. M.
We will let you know more about 
it later, but this will give you time 
to dwell on the idea of enjoying the 
nice warm water and pleasant com
panionship of your fellow swim
mers.
jHett&i ta the C&itosi
This student would like to know 
if a special course could be arrang
ed for the benefit of the girls inter
ested in automotive mechanics. As 
we have proved our ability in sup
plying the missing parts of the car 
(hairpins, you know), we would 
like to prove our ability as mechan
ics. We might suggest that the 
course include instructions in the 
art of replacing a punctured tire (a 
blow-out). We would like to recom
mend Mr. S. J. Nikhazy for the posi
tion of instructor in the fine art of 
tire-changing. Having witnessed his 
skill in replacing a punctured tire, 
I assure you that this appointment 
as instructor will not be regretted. 
Mr. Nikhazy can teach the girls in 
one easy lesson to change a tire in 
five minutes. You can readily see 
the advantages of such a course.
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
Let's go to
ISALY'S
MILK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM COINES
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the College 
District 
5808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
8880 Boulevard of the Alliei
Fort Pitt is the Place 
to Rent
TYPEWRITERS
!
ALL
MAKES
$3.00 per 
Month
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
Sometimes theres 
an Extra Rush 
on Long Distance
Every day, millions of hands reach 
for the telephone to use Long Dis
tance. Most of those calls go through 
quickly.
But sometimes theres a crowd on 
certain lines. Then Long Distance 
will say, Please limit your call to 
5 minutes.
That helps everybody.
THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY 
OF PENNSYLVANIA
