The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 36 No. 25 CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA. TUESDAY, MARCH 30, 1943
Photo by Lew KleinWalt Darby, Dave Neuss, and Ed Goldstein, who head the new TARTAN staff, 
discuss projected improvements for the coming summer issues.
Reds Attack Blues In 
(L Bloodless Conflict; 
Battle Ends In Draw
Last Saturday afternoon, Schenley 
^ark was the scene of the first ROTC 
egimental maneuver under the sponsorihip of former Cadet Colonel James K. 
Hice. The maneuver, orginally planned 
or last semester, was postponed until 
his month because of inclement weather.
The Red forces, under Commander 
3umm, began their attack from the 
Darlington Road entrance of Schenley 
Park. Composed of the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th 
Battalions (less Company F), the Red 
\rrny acting as infantry, with the supjort of Signal units, spread out through 
;he woods. The Blue forces, under Comnandier Chesarek, was defending Polunk Airfield located at Flagstaff Hill 
ind the Phipps Conservatory. This army 
composed of the First Battalion and 
Company F entranched in defensive po
sitions with the aid of the signal units.
Umpires were attached to both fac
tions and passed judgement on proceed
ings of each separate engagement. All 
engineers and infantry men below the 
rank of staff sergeant were supposed to 
3e carrying Ml903 rifles, and all those 
above were to be armed with M1911 
pistols. The signal Corps unit was also to 
:arry pistols. In addition, each company 
tvas to be equipped with two heavy ma
chine guns. No artillery, mortars or other 
equipment was available to either side.
Losses were assessed to the compan
ies by the umpires, instead of individuals 
being pronounced dead. Each company 
of the Red army worked as a unit and 
advanced at each opportunity. The Blue 
army remained stationary and retreated 
when necessary. Scouts were sent out by 
each company to search the enemy posi
tions.
At the close of the maneuvers, the 
judges, aided by Colonel Bass, Captain 
Shaffer, and Captain Layton announced 
at a critique in 104 Industries that the 
battle had been well carried out and had 
ended in a draw.
Six Big Awards Made 
At Last Fridays Sing
Six main awards were made at the an
nual Sing competition held last Friday 
night. The various organizations that 
participated were divided into three main 
divisions, according to the number of peo
ple singing in each group. Separate 
awards were made for mens and wom
ens organizations.
In Group I, consisting of quartettes, the 
SAEs placed first. As the Beta Pis were 
the only womens organization to enter 
into the quartette competition, they also 
received first place in this division.
Group II consisted of 12 singers or less. 
The Beta Theta Pis and the Tri-Gams 
placed first in this class. The Kappa Sigs 
were awarded first place in Group III, 
consisting of 15 singers or more. No 
womens organization entered into the 
competition for Class III.
The rotating sorority cup, presented to 
the sorority who was given the best per
formance, was passed on to the Tri-Gams 
this year.
About 10:30 on Friday night the Sing 
was interrupted by an air raid drill. Dur
ing the blackout, Jean Thompson and 
Jack Manheimer played the piano to 
entertain the crowd in the darkened gym
nasium.
-------ON THE RECORD---------
Today
12:30, Room 157, Arts, Mr. Charles A. H. 
Pearson will present the following phono
graph recital:
First Symphony ....................... Beethoven
Moldau ........................................... Smetana
Thursday
12:30, Room 157, Arts, Dr. Frederick 
porian will be in charge of the follow
ing program:
Chamber Music ........................... Schubert
Mens-Womens Glee 
Clubs Present Concert
The combined Men and Womens Glee 
Clubs will give a concert tomorrow Wed
nesday evening, March 31, at 8:15 p. m., 
in Exhibition Hall of the Fine Arts Build
ing. The Womens Glee Club will be con
ducted by Mrs. Harriet Kurtz and by Jac
queline Sandlin M 43, Student conductor. 
The Mens Glee Club will be conducted 
by Edward Miller M 45. The combined 
Glee Clubs will be conducted by Dr. Malcharek. The program will be as follows:
Combined Glee Clubs:Star Spangled Banner Dear Old TechFight for the Glory of Carnegie Mens Glee Club:Marine Hymn Anchors Aweigh Air Corps Song Womens Glee Club:.My Johnny Was a Shoemaker... Deems TaylorHanson de Tonibaurineur..............Deems TaylorBritish Children's Prayer ..............................WolfeConcerto in D Minor, Second Movement... Bach Two violins and piano Edward Miller, violin Clifford Taylor, violin Don Wilkins, pianoConcerto in E Flat Minor..............................MozartTwo pianosMary Martha Juber Don Wilkins Mens Glee Club:Lift Thine Eyes..............................................BaldwinTramp, Tramp, Tramp....................Victor HerbertPilgrims Chorus from Tannhauser...... .WagnerJolly Roger .................................... Robertson-DiesWomens Glee Club:Let My Song Fill Your Heart Sofetly as a Morning Sunrise, Sigmond Romberg Spring Combined Glee Clubs:Land-Sighting ................................................... GreigAlma Mater......................................J. Vick OBrian
Students Can Aid War 
Prisoners; Heres How
As last weeks TARTAN stated, Pitts
burgh has been selected by the War 
Prisoners Aid Committee of the Y. M. 
C. A. as one of three cities to conduct 
test drives to collect used but usable 
musical instruments and athletic equip
ment to be sent to prisoners of war. Re
sults of the campaign in Pittsburgh, 
Rochester, N. Y., and New Haven, Conn., 
will determine whether the campaign 
will be conducted nationally.
Carnegie Tech students are being ask
ed to contribute to this campaign by 
bringing musical instruments and ath
letic equipment they have to the Y. M. 
C. A. office in the Student Union or to 
Room 102 Gymnasium.
The Athletic Department is leading the 
way by donating all its old athletic equip
ment to the drive. The happiness and 
morale of thousands of American boys 
who are prisoners of war in enemy hands 
depends on our getting them this equip
ment. Scarcity of materials has stopped 
the manufacture of most types of musical 
instruments and athletic goods, and the 
available supply of such new equipment 
has been practically exhausted; so it it up 
to us to contribute such means of rec
reation.
Commutuptte A/a. 5
O.C.D. Forces Prepare 
As Carnival Blitz Nears
Pittsburgh, Mar. 30.  (By Carrier 
Pigeon)An authoritative source here on 
the Carnegie Tech campus informed the 
TARTAN that the music of Richard Himber will definitely storm the Tech cam
pus on the opening jiight of Spring Car
nival, April 9. The mighty arm of the 
coming Carnival has reached across the 
entire campus to strike this, our home
land, with one of the heaviest socials of 
the year, striking with such a weight of 
action that it is expected that the Car
nival will reach never before achieved 
proportions.
The same source informed the TAR
TAN that the wave of social activity will 
undoubtedly return to Tech on the fol
lowing day, April 10. The bombardment 
will be light on the afternoon of the 10th, 
with the formal Carnival ceremonies be
ing held in the Greek Theater. Neverthe
less. we are informed that we may ex
pect some slight local activity when a 
juke box will be placed in a roped-off 
campus street for afternoon street danc
ing.
This same communique gave grave 
warnings about the great social assault 
that is planned for the night of the 10th. 
At that time, the Carnival Committee will 
unload its newest weapon on the campus, 
even worse than four-ton bombsyes, a 
Mardi Gras costume ball.
As to precautions for this hectic even
ing, the local Defense Council sadly in
formed this reporter that they knew of no 
fortifications that could possibly stop it. 
Theyre only advice: Scoop in all of the 
babies and children under fourteenbe
ware of Mardi Gras, the greatest boom 
to 20th Century Tech campus life.
Table Tennis Tournament 
To Be Held Carnival Week
For the eighth consecutive year a 
school table tennis tournament will be 
held during Spring Carnival. There are 
no eligibility rules, but the competition 
will be limited to individuals only. There 
will be no group competition. The event 
will be handled by the Intramural Man
agers Club, and is being sponsored by 
the Spring Carnival Committee. Cer
tificates will be awarded the winners. 
The last date entries will be accepted is 
April 5, competition starting in the even
ing of April 7. The finals will be run off 
on the afternoon of April 10.
Dave Neuss Will 
Head Tartan Staff
Dave Neuss. ME 44. was elected editorin-chief of the Carnegie TARTAN for 
the summer and fall trimesters of this 
year at a special meeting of the senior 
staff and editorial board last Wednesday. 
The publication of a summer edition of 
the TARTAN is unprecedented in Car
negie Tech history.
Assisting Dave will be a senior staff 
composed of co-managing editors Ed 
Goldstein, P 45, and Walt Darby, MA 44, 
news editor Louisa Saul, H Ec 44, fea
tures editor Helena Aronson, Gen 44, 
copy editors Elaine Levin, S W 44, and 
Gerry Edelson, M 44, and personnel 
manager T. J. Harmany, Gen 44. John 
Lindberg will head the sports staff.
Dave Neuss has been very active on 
the TARTAN since his freshman year, 
and had charge of make-up at the print
ers during the latter part of this tri
mester. He has also been active on the 
Carnegie Technical, and is at present 
the Layout and Design Editor of that 
magazine. Dave, who was a member of 
the Student War Activities Council enter
tains the firm belief that more should be 
done on Carnegie Tech campus toward 
the war effort.
The usual problems of putting out a 
weekly paper will be heightened for this 
staff, by the fact that through the sum
mer months there will be only a partial 
senior staff. And, too, the ordinarily 
large group of active reporters has 
dwindled to the point where the present 
group is smaller and younger than ever 
before.
To complicate matters still more, the 
surplus which every TARTAN for the 
past three years has had to start with, 
has melted away so that this staff will 
start with nothing. But the staffs hopes 
are high, and they have all expressed the 
determination to overcome the obstacles 
and to continue the good work.
.V-l and V-7 Reservists 
To Leave This Summer
First to be called under the new ar
rangement of the Naval Reserve Program 
announced last week in the TARTAN, are 
the V-ls (ACP) and V-7s. who will be 
ordered to active duty as Apprentice Senmen under the V-12 program on or about 
July 1, 1943. Many of the students in 
these two classes have already received 
their notices, and are planning to take 
the time between the end of this semes
ter and the time they are called as a va
cation. Once called, they will receive pay, 
subsistence and uniforms, and will be 
assigned to the colleges which hold con
tracts with the Navy for such further 
training as might be required.
An option is offered, however, to those 
V-7s who will have completed all but 
one term, or less, of the requirements for 
a baccalaureate degree, so that they may 
stay in the college in which they are reg
istered for the next ensuing term. Any
one wishing to accept this option should 
immediately inform the Director of the 
Naval Procurement Office; failure to do 
so will mean placement on the active 
duty list, and assignment to a college, 
not necessarily the one which the stu
dent is attending, for further training. 
Those who are allowed to complete their 
course should notify the Director of the 
Naval Procurement Office of their grad
uation immediately afterwards, enclos
ing an official transcript of their college 
record.
Important: Apprentice Seamen must 
have official transcripts of their college 
record through the last completed term 
in school when they report for active duty 
under the Naval College Training Pro
gram.

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 30, 1943
C'dUotli Aimcluun. ----------------------------------------------
End Of The Line
In writing my last editorial I would like to step from behind the editorial 
we and speak personally to you, the readers. It has been an interesting and 
enjoyable experience writing these weekly epistles to you.
True, it is discouraging to pour ones heart into an editorial which, judg
ing from results, nobody bothers to read anyway. Occasionally, however, some 
kind soul mentions an editorial in the TARTAN which he reads. On these 
occasions Im so surprised to find someone who has read the editorial that it 
makes no difference whether he liked it or not ... Im happy.
I would like to express a word of appreciation to a few of the many 
persons who have made publication of the TARTAN possible in this, its most 
hectic semester. Although the TARTAN this semester was in the worst finan
cial condition in its history, the conscientious and diligent work of the business 
manager, Wilbur Thomas, made possible the continuation of publication this 
semester.
Mention should also be made of one of the most talented chaps to appear 
on the TARTAN staff in recent years, and who, because of the war, will be 
unable to remain in school long enough to receive proper recognition of his 
hard work and unusual ability. This lad is, of course, Ed Goldstein. Another 
person who deserves a pat on the back is Dot Greiner, who last week, though 
sick abed, delivered her column in time because space had been reserved for it.
The entire administration has ben very cooperative, but special thanks go 
to the News Bureaus Mr. Hannum and his Girl Friday, Miss Talmadge. They 
have both been a great help. Also, I feel that the Juniors on the Editorial 
Board who performed Seniors duties without previous experience and the 
Freshmen on the staff who have been doing the work usually done by Juniors, 
all deserve a pat on the back.
So, commending the TARTAN and the new staff to your tolerant atten
tion, I write 30 to my last editorial.
Mel Snyder.
Letters To The Editor
We regret that because of limited space we are unable to print letters from 
the I.S.C., O.D.K., and Messrs. Chang and Chou. These letters will probably 
be published in next weeks TARTAN.
.. Council Minutes ....
On the Campus
The meeting was called to order at 7:15 
p. m., March 23, 1943.
Absent: Messrs. Dolan, Lindgren, Mar
tin, and Miss Skeehan.
COMMITTEE REPORTS 
Publications
Mr. Rose moved that the motion made 
last week to approve the new staff of 
the BAGPIPER be approved.
Motion carried.
Mr. Rose moved that the resignation 
of Jim Braden, Editor of Tri-Publica
tions be accepted, and the election of 
Jack Woodside as Editor and Ed Mehl 
as Business Manager be approved.
Motion carried.
Social
Mr. Wolff moved that the petition from 
Citcom Clan and Mens Dormitory Coun
cil for the use of Thistle Hall April 3, 
1943, from 8 to 1, be approved.
Motion carried.
Spring Carnival
Mr. Jones asked Councils opinion as 
to giving away SCOTTIES as programs 
for Carnival to each ticket holder. There 
was some discussion on this matter, and
it was decided to put it in the hands of 
Messrs. Boyce, Reisacher, Jones, and 
Murphy to investigate the matter.
Mr. Jones suggestion that Spring Car
nival concessions be put in the hands of 
the organizations which will send to the 
Committee the best bids as to what ma
terial they will sell, how they will dis
pose of it, what prices they will charge, 
and what they will give for the privilege 
of holding such a concession, met with 
Councils approval.
Mr. Jones announced that Friday night 
a dance will be held with Richard Himbers music, and that Saturday night will 
be the Mardi Gras Dance, instead of as 
was formerly stated.
OLD BUSINESS
Mr. Landerman moved that the admendraent to the Constitution for the 
Carnegie Tech Commuters which was 
tabled last week be approved.
Motion carried.
Adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
ELIZABETH BEALL,
Secretary.
On the Campus is conducted for the 
benefit of the entire Tech student body. 
If you have any notices for the column, 
just type them up and drop in Tech P. O. 
Box 409 by Friday noon of the week be
fore publication.
Adieu To M. M.s
Margaret Morrison will say farewell 
to its graduating seniors in the annual 
senior assembly Tuesday, April 6, at 11:30 
in the Margaret Morrison Assembly Hall. 
Dr. Watkins, director of the college, will 
be the speaker.
Senior attendance, in cap and gown, is 
required. All other Margaret Morrison 
students, especially the juniors, are cor
dially invited.
Freshman R. O. T. C. Film
Presenting the third in the series on 
Personal Health, the R. O. T. C. De
partment in conjunction with the Health 
Department will show a film in the Lit
tle Theater at 11:30 today. Although only 
R. O. T. C. freshmen were required to 
attend the first two in the series, all 
freshmen must attend this one.
E. R. C. Admitted to Army-Navy Tests
An important telegram has been re
ceived from the Third Service Command 
to the effect that all Enlisted Reserve 
students are eligible and are urged to 
participate in the joint Army and Navy 
Test on April 2. The students taking the 
test should clearly indicate their Enlisted 
Reserve Corps status on the answer sheet.
Another important notice for the En
listed Reserve Corps students is that they 
will be called to active duty from their 
homes unless they inform Mr. Charles E. 
Wangeman ,Armed Services Representa
tive, Room 155-Ind. in writing that they 
wish to be called from school.
Enlisted Reserve Corps students are al
so urgently requested' to refer daily to 
notices posted on the Enlisted Reserve 
Corps Bulletin Board outside Mr. Wangemans office.
V-l Gives Special Tests
Students in the V-l branch of the Nav
al Reserve and the U. S. Marine Corps 
Reserve will take qualifying examina
tions on Tuesday, April 20. These exam
inations are for those who will have 
completed four semesters of their col
lege course by July 1, and.students who 
complete them successfully will be eligi
ble for advanced standing. All students 
in these classifications must be present 
for both the morning and the afternoon 
session of the examination.
Faculty Discussion
The next bi-weekly meeting of the fac
ulty for the discussion of current world 
problems will be held in Room 235-A 
Ind., Thursday, March 25, at 3:30. 
International Relations Club
What are these nations doing to win? 
will be the next in the series of discus
sions on the general topic The United 
Nations by I. R. C. at its weekly meeting 
in M. M. C. C., Room 112, at 12:30 today. 
Elaine Levin, S. W. 44, will lead the dis
cussion, with plenty of time devoted to 
questions. Its all for you gals; why not 
drop in?
I. A. S. Goes Bowling
A bowling party is scheduled for this 
Wednesday in the New Strand Alleys 
at 7:00 P. M. by I. A. S. All members are 
urged to join the party and bowl in an 
Aromatic, Aero Atmosphere.
Discussion Group Meeting Tomorrow
The Student Discussion Group, which 
usually meets on Tuesday at 12:30, will 
convene this week in Ind., 129 C as 
usual, but at 12:30 tomorrow. Mr. B. 
Iden Payne, drama authority and di 
rector of the famed Globe Theater who 
directed the recent Drama Department 
production of Romeo and Juliet, will 
be the speaker. His topic will be The 
Theater and Life. Lets have a big turn
out for this interesting and worthwhile 
discussion. Everybody welcome!
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the 
staff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not 
to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh, Pa.
PHONE MAYFLOWER S600 PHONE SCHENLEY 4557
yTT.T wtrTALoPV"!T,*T "v After Office Hours CallNational Advertising^Service, Inc. Editor-in-chief...............................sc. 9887College Publisher* Representative
420 Madison avi. new York. -O y. Business Manager..........................BR. 4759
CUtCMO  BofTOM  tos AUCIU  SAW Fwcisco
Entered u second-class matter In tne Pittsburgh Post Office under the Act of March 3, 1878. 
Published weekly daring school year, except holidays and examination periods. 
Subscription Price SI.10 per year.
Editor-in-Chief...........................................................................................Melvin H. Snyder, Jr.
Business Manager............................................................................................... Wilbur Thomas
Managing Editor........................................................................................................ Jeanne King
Staff Photographer.............................................................................................................Lew Klein
EDITORIAL BOARD: Helena Aronson, Walt Darby, Gerry Edelson, E. Goldstein, 
T. J. Harmany, Elaine Levin, Dave Neuss, Louisa Saul.
Sports Staff: Don French, Editor; Ashe Etkes, John Lindberg, Bill Beamer Stu Lee, 
Bill Ferguson.
Business Staff...................................Martha Wagman, Lee Greenwald, Lawrence Schutzer
Reporters: Natalie Nathan, Lucille Schulberg, Geri Racusin, Mort Cohn, Aron Beck, 
Norma Caplan, Sidney Gerhardt, Adeline Herlick, Marty Jacobs, Bill Kolb, Iris 
Kwall, Lois Marks, Jeanne Norris, Lola Marks, Jeanne Norris, Lola Patton, 
Dorothy Rutkin Alen Schneider, Alice Sofis, Margee King, Marty Gross, Dotty 
Greiner, Marshall Nurenberg.
Circulation Manager.........................................................................................Chester Feinberg
In his letter home, even a general 
in Africa recalled happy moments 
with ice-cold Coca-Cola. Theres 
something about Coca-Cola. Ever 
notice how you associate it with hap
py moments? There's that delicious 
taste you dont find this side of 
Coca-Cola, itself. Its a chummy 
drink that people like right-out-ofthe-bottle. Yes siree, the only thing 
like Coca-Cola is Coca-Cola, itself.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY, PITTSBURGH, PA.

---------------------------------------------------

Tech men, W. Ebert and S. West, fought 
their way to the finals winning their bout 
and received the Gold Medal Award.
mural Board, Mike was declared ineligi
ble. This action caused the Citcomers to 
forfeit their game with the DUs, leaving 
McGill Hall the only unbeaten team in 
that league. Citcom then defeated Mc
Gill in their regularly scheduled game, 
throwing the league into a tie between 
McGill and Citcom, but on March 24, the 
Commuters defeated McGill for the 
league championship by scores of 14-21, 
21-8, 21-8.
Sitting on edge and fighting all comers 
a strong Citcom team jumped at the 
chance to add precious: points' to their 
bid for the All Points Trophy. The team 
representing the latter entered the com
petition and practically walked off with 
all honors. Joe Benko, Harry Hunter, 
Bill Robbins and Jim Allerdice, the last 
named was the originator and executor 
of this interesting competition, com
promised the team and collected 77 out 
of a possible 10 points. Joe Benko turn
ed in the best score of the evening with 
his 23 (believe it or not) out of a 25 tries. 
His mates followed thus, Hunter 19, Rob
bins 19 and Alderdice 16. All four qual
ified for the individual competition.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon finished second to 
the Clan with a high total of 65. As in the 
preceeding case all four competers qual
ified for the finals as Bob Auld scored 18 
and was followed by Hugh Mackean with 
16, Bob Gillespie 16 and Bill King with 
15. Theta Xi finished third with 59 beat
ing the PKA boys to the tape by one foul 
as the latter compiled 58 points. Three 
Theta Xi men and two from Pi
Notice
This weeks Intramural Program has 
been thrown off schedule because of 
ROTC activities and Greek Sing and 
Swing.
SWIMMING
All men participating in Intramural 
swimming MUST report their practice 
hours to either Miss Reed or Mr. Eyeman before Wednesday. Otherwise they 
will not be able to compete. The sched
ule for the swimming meets has been 
moved ahead exactly one week.
Bowl for Health 
and Enjoyment 
.fcOWP/TyQ.
HOTEL WEBSTER 
HALL
Available For
PRIVATE PARTIES 
BANQUETS 
SWIMMING PARTIES
MAyflower 7700 
Fifth near Mellon Institute
WANTED
26 inch Mans Bicvclef
Good Condition 
Reasonable
Call JA. 2073
University Recreation
New Alleys and 
Latest Equipment
On Craig Off Forbes
IN THE TANK 
FORCES
say: th:e
IRON HORSES
for tanks
GEAR HAPPY'
^ CAMELS ^ 
ALWAYS 
TRAVEL WITH 
ME- THEY'VE 
GOT WHAT IT 
TAKES IN 
TASTE AND 
MILDNESS. IVE 
SMOKED 'EM 
FOR YEARS
for shifting gears too often
THIN SKINS
for unarmored trucks
CAMEL
for the service mans favorite 
cigarette
FIRST IN THE SERVICE
With men in the Army, the Navy, 
the Marine Corps, and the Coast 
Guard, the favorite cigarette is 
Camel. (Based on actual sales records 
in Post Exchanges and Canteens.)
THE T-ZONE
where cigarettes are judged
The "T-ZONE"Taste and Throatis the proving ground for 
cigarettes. Only your taste and throat can decide which ciga
rette tastes best to you...and how it affects your throat. For your 
taste and throat are absolutely individual to you. Based on the 
experience of millions of smokers, we believe Camels will suit 
your "T-ZONE" to a "T." Prove it for yourself!
THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
Foul Shooting Contest 
Won By Citcom Clan; 
SAE Second, TX Third
No pushing, tripping, holding or what 
have you were detected by the referees 
last Wednesday at the Mens gym yet 
fouls was the theme of the evening. 
Collectively they added important points 
to those teams entered. Individually, they 
advanced those who sank at least 15 out 
of the 25 tries they had, to a final tourna
ment. The King of Foulers will be 
crowned during that time.
TUESDAY, MARCH 30,1943
Kappa Alpha managed to place their 
name on the competition list. In order 
they were Ed Denne 18, Jim Garner 16, 
George Rahall 15, Bill Woollenweber 18, 
and Harry Lindahle with 16. Pete Kapetan with 19 and Johnny Childsi with 15 
led the Sigma Nu aggregation to the 5th 
slot in the final standing with 54 points. 
Other teams followed in this order, Scobell- 53, Delta Tau Delta-53, Beta Sigma 
Rho-51, Delta Upsilon-50, Henderson-48, 
Alpha Tau Omega-43 and Kappa Sigma39.
The individual competition will be 
held this Wednesday in the Mens Gym 
starting at 7:15 P. M.
Two Citcom Teams To 
Meet In Final Match
The championship volleyball match 
was played off on Monday, March 29, 
when Citcom A met Citcom B. The 
Bs had no trouble winning their place, 
but the A team met with some diffi
culty.
This trouble centered around the fact 
that the DUs played their game with 
Citcom under protest, claiming that Mike 
Capobianco was not a legitimate member 
of the Citcom Clan. Upon investigation 
by a committee appointed by the IntraWrestlers Second In AM A 
Meet; Lose To Arsenal
Last Friday night a week, the Tech 
Wrestlers lost to the Arsenal men by a 
score of 17-0.
Last Friday, the Wrestlers went down 
again in defeat against stiff competition, 
namely the Canonsburg team, best squad 
in the Allegheny Mountain Wrestling Association. Participating in this wrestling 
tournament at Arsenal High were 8 
teams. Point scores ran as follows; Canonsburg-44; Tech-16; Bureau of Recrea
tion and Downtown YMCA-6. Two of our
_________________________________3_

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 30, 1943
April 3 Is Red Letter Day On Nite Campus; 
Free Spring Party Seasons Swan Song
The final social event of the season will 
be. held Saturday, April 3rd, and will be 
a party along the lines of those held. in 
the past. This affair is to be one of the 
finest yet, and a great deal of effort is 
v)eing spent to see that this party turns 
jut to be the biggest affair of the year.
The party is to be held in the Recrea
tion Room in the Margaret Morrison 
Building and the time is to be from nine 
to one p. m. A complete program has 
been set up including dancing, games, 
cards, entertainment, and refreshments.
The admission is free to regular night 
students upon presentation of registra
tion cards. To Defense students, friends, 
and others, the admission will be 55c per 
person.
These parties have proved very suc
cessful in the past, and everyone attend
ing them has had a wonderful time and 
expressed the wish that more of these 
affairs be held.
This will be the third party this season 
and all those who wish to have the time 
of their lives are urged to attend. The 
social committee has been very busy, leting nothing interfere in the way of mak
ing this party the biggest affair of its 
kind ever held.
It is a well known fact that advertis
ing is the main thing to be considered 
when planning an affair of this kind, so 
tell your friends and classmates about this 
party, and try to make up a group and 
attend in a body. These are friendly af
fairs and we know everyone will feel at 
home and will leave with the happy 
thought that the evening has been well 
spent.
Remember the time and place, April 
3rd, in the Recreation Room of Margaret 
Morrison Building. The extra hour allow
ed should be an added inducement to at
tend.
Saga of the Vacuum Pump
By B. D. Cametti
So much could be written about noth
ing that the space here would not permit, 
so let us scan through the high spots of 
this science of Vacuum and see why it 
is one of the most important tools of sci
entific research.
Ever since the day Otto von Guericke 
(1650) discovered his suction pump cap
able of attaining pressure of about 1/1000 
of an atmosphere pressure, Vacuum has 
played a very prominent part in most of 
the outstanding experiments that follow
ed. Little did he realize that his famous 
and dramatic experiment with the 
Madgeburg hemispheres, which when 
exhausted could not be pulled apart by 
two teams of eight horses each, was only 
the beginning of an era where vacuum 
was to play a very important call.
During the early stages of vacuum 
pump development, most pumps were of 
the mechanical type, namely: piston, ro
tary oil vane, and gear types. Following 
these came the more refined mechanical 
pumps, such as: mercury pumps and 
molecular pumps. Later pumps were de
veloped using a liquid as a medium, such
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
INFORMAL DANCING
Every FRIDAY and 
SATURDAY NIGHT
Billy Hinds Music 
$1 per person (plus tax)
See us about your next party
HOTEL SCHENLEY
Now II Can Be Told! 
Engineers Banquet 
Will Be Held May 8
Hooray! At last the long awaited 
scoop! The Engineers Twenty-eight An
nual Banquet will be held on Saturday, 
May 8, in the English Room of the Fort 
Pitt Hotel.
At 7:00 p. m. the doors will open to al
low the crowding stags to rush for the 
coveted seatsfor a very unusual show 
will be in the offing. But before the 
show, comes the enlightening talks by our 
reserved guests who generally manage 
to sprinkle a few subtle jokes in their 
otherwise dry talksits remarkable how 
men can laugh at these dry speeches.
As in previous years the show will be 
the feature of the evening (due respect 
to our speakers, but manhood will out!) 
There will be exhibitions of manual dex
terity surpassed, perhaps, only by the 
repartee of the encroaching wolves.
After the show comes refreshments, 
then the climax-the awarding of the 
sensational door prizes. Of course, those 
who dont win prizes can always find 
solace in their bag of souveniers, a tra
ditional feature of the Engineers Ban
quets.
Aiter much computation, it has been 
decided that the ticket price for all of 
the afore-mentioned features shall be 
$2.50, which must be paid before Sat
urday, May 1. Tickets may be purchased 
from any member of the Social Commit
tee and any inquiry may be addressed to 
Evening Student Council Box, 353 
(drop notes inter-school mail box ad
jacent to the book room).
as: water, mercury and oil jet diffusion 
types.
Recalling that during Otto von Guer
ickes famous experiment a vacuum of 
1/1000 mm. of mercury was obtained, 
and cbmpare that to pressures of 10-8 mm. 
of mercury (.0000000- mm. Hg.) we can 
readily appreciate the great advance 
made in this technique. Many of the more 
important discoveries in science and elec
tronics would not have been possible if 
vacuums of this type were not obtainable 
A few of the fields where vacuum is used 
extensively re: electronics, chemical,
metallurgical, and neucular physics re
search.
Although the production of low pres
sures from atmospheres is apt to lose 
significance, we may well recall that the 
process involves the transfer of some 
ten trillion (1019) molecules per cubic 
centimeter. We can get a better idea of its 
immensity from an illustration, due to 
(Aston), that if a tiny hole was made in 
the side of an exhaused electric lamp 
bulb, such that molecules of air could 
stream in at the rate of 1 million per 
second, it would take 100,000,000 years 
before the lamp would be completely 
filled.
THE PROGRESS OF A 
COMMUNITY 18 REFLECTED 
IN THE 
CHARACTER OF ITS BANKS 

MELLON 
NATIONAL BANK
MBMOB flDCRAL OSPOSfT INtUKANCf CORPORATION
Bob Aungst is home on a furloughso 
nice seeing you again, Bob . . . Dave 
Pettigrew, A1 Flanders, and Nancy Lewis 
were called to Pi Delta Epsilon .... Have 
you seen the lovely ring Pearl Pettola 
made over here at schoolits quite nice 
cept it doesnt fit herbet she made it 
for a boy friend . . . Junior Pettigrew, 
came over to help on the paper Friday 
with a wad of bills in his pQcket but after 
the gals finished with himhe had to 
bum a ride home . . . Bill Hurtt, aviation 
cadet, is now stationed in Florida . . . 
If anyone knows the size of an average 
pork chop, please get in touch with Steve 
MarcinizynHe is doing the shopping 
for the Mrs. now and hes afraid he might 
be getting gyped . . . Resolved! B. Bas1- 
sett is definitely thru with blind dates 
seems one of his friends (?) did him 
wrong last week . . . The Administra
tion will have to start issuing No. 17 
coupons to reimburse certain students 
for the shoes they go thru because In
dustries is locked at 10:20 and they have 
to do a lot of extra walking . . . Hal 
Geilman was a welcome visitor last week 
. . . Blackout interrupted us herelots 
of lipstick flying down in the shelter 
. . . Note from the Ration Board to all 
Evening students: only a few more weeks 
remain in which to get POINTS toward 
an insignia. Hurry, Hurry, before the se
mester closes . . . We hope Mr. McKelway invites us all to a poker party 
so he can make good use of the poker 
chips he won at the Shamrock Social. 
Yes! and guess how he won them? He was 
chosen by lovely female judges to be their 
favorite man . . . The ping pong play
ers have a new enthusiast to conquer. He 
is Martin Michael, and it will take more 
than one corpusle and a lot of muscles 
to beat him ...
THE
PLACE TO EAT
------in------
OAKLAND
-ISBILL'S LUNCH ROOM
3911 Forbes Street
Let's go to .
ISALY'S
MILK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM CONS
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Allies
The Carnegie Plaid
Page edited by Evening acnool Students of Carnegie Institute of Technology. All views or opinions expressed in editorial column are not necessarily endorsed by the Editorial Board of Ihe Day School staff.
EditorNancy E. Lewis News Editor 
Robert C. King 
Associate Editor of Engineering Joseph M. Rymar 
Associate Editor of Industries Mary Jo Weber 
Associate Editor of Fine Arts Marion Frost
Albert Flanders Mary Hensler John Hundertmark Edward A. Macha Robert Bassett
StaffS. W. Marcinizyn D. Pettigrew, Jr. Pearl Pettola Robert Poznanski Albert Kersturkos
Door Prize Correction
Believe it or not! The door prizes at 
the Shamrock Party were not awarded 
to Yehudi and his Mrs. as was indicated 
by the articles in last weeks paper. The 
proof-reader was evidently asleep at the 
switch. We hasten to rectify his error by 
printing the names) of the lucky persons. 
\nn Hamilton won a lovely Worry-bird 
and Peggy Reed was awarded a Revlon 
manicure set. Were glad this mess is 
finally straightened out. Its been caus
ing undue comment all week.
Zditosbl R&phf,. . .
Last week we had an inquiry regarding 
the Service Flag on display in Adminis
tration Hall. We contacted the Admin
istration and are pleased to report that 
the figures representing the students from 
the campus now in the service of our 
country, does include Evening School 
Students. We have not yet been advised 
just how this figure is divided between 
day and night students, but we are truly 
proud of all the boys who are fighting 
under our countrys banner to protect us 
here at home, and of course, especially 
proud of those from our school.
We welcome these letters to the ed
itor for it proves to us not only the 
students interest in The Carnegie Plaid 
but their deep interest in the school it
self. Incidentally it is very nice to re
ceive a letter of this particulay type 
because so many voice dissatisfaction and 
complaint.
Fort Pitt is the Place 
to Rent
TYPEWRITERS
ALL
MAKES
$3.00 per
Month
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
