Student Council 
Elections Friday 
For All Collegesdarnegieartan
Story Of Kiltie Band 
Success This Year 
Told On Page 2
VOL. 41No. 24CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, MAY 25, 1948
Inn May Eliminate 
Noon Meals
Too Few Students 
Eat There; Must 
Cut Expenses
The administration is consider
ing discontinuing the serving of 
lunches in the Carnegie Inn as a 
means of reducing the cost of op
erating the campus restaurants, 
Dr. D. F. Miner, Director of Stu
dent Personnel and Welfare an
nounced last week.
The reason given by Dr. Miner 
for closing the Inn at the noon 
hour is that too few students eat 
there to justify the cost involved. 
The present number could be 
served in Skibo at a saving in op
erating cost. The number of peo
ple eating lunch in the Inn must 
increase or we will probably be 
forced to close it, he said.
Dr. Miner reported that Presi
dent Doherty has been making a 
study of the various proposals 
made by students and by others 
for improving the food situation, 
particularly to bring down prices. 
Several measures have been con
sidered and as fast as those most 
effective can be decided upon they 
will be put into effect..
Each, phase of the operations is 
being examined, he reported, to 
determine where changes can be 
made to eliminate uneconomical 
features, improve the service and 
reduce the cost. The aim is to pro
vide wholesome and adequate 
meals at the lowest possible cost.
Robert Fulton
Fulton Elected 
New President 
Of Citcom Clan
Robert Jay Fulton has been 
elected the new president of Cit
com Clan. A junior in chemical 
engineering and a member of Stu
dent Council, Fulton has served 
for the past year as the editor of 
the Citcommentator.
Said Fulton upon assuming 
leadership of Citcom, Were not 
going to enter political campaigns 
next year. After the disturbances 
that were created this year we 
have decided to limit oui activi
ties to social affairs for the com
muters.
Other officers of Citcom recent
ly elected are Robert- Gaydos, 
vice-president; Alberta Cuneo, 
secretary; and Arbon Lang, treas
urer.Committee chairmen named at 
[Continued on page 8]
Seventy-nine Faculty Members 
Request Palestine Partition
Petition Sponsored By Faculty Members; 
President Doherty, Department Heads Sign
Seventy-nine members of the faculty and staff of Carnegie In
stitute of Technology have joined in calling on the United States 
government to readopt support of the partition plan for Palestine.
Sponsored by eight members of the faculty the list of signers was 
led by President Robert E. Doherty and Professors G. L. Bach, R. 
D. Gregg, Charles A. H. Pearson, W. A. Readio, Frederick Seitz, and 
John L. Synge, chairman of the economics, history, music paint
ing and design, physics, and math
ematics departments respectively.
Also included among the sign
ers were: E. K. Collins, Registrar;
Stanley R. March, Director of 
Public Relations; and Professors 
Melva B. Bakkie, home econom
ics; Lester M. Beattie, English;
Immanel Estermann, physics; Leo 
Finzi, electrical engineering; Jos
eph B. Rosenbach, mathematics; 
and Edward Saibel, mechanics.
In their letter to Secretary 
Marshall the signers pointed out 
that the present trusteeship has 
already proven itself incapable of 
being maintained, and the conse
quences of its continued support 
are likely to be:
Destruction of the Jewish 
community in Palestine and an 
indefinite confinement of Eu
ropes Jews in DP camps.
Involvement of the entire 
Near East in war.
A one-sided intervention by 
the major powers in either di
rection, bringing a third world 
war threateningly closer.
Universal disillusionment in 
the objectives of American for
eign policy.
Complete destruction of the 
United Nations as an instru" [Continued on page 5
Power of FAC Faces Test 
As Election Approaches
Creative Writing
Juniors and seniors in any of 
the Colleges are eligible to re
quest admission to the course 
in Creative Writing, a 9-unit 
course to be taught by Miss 
Gladys Schmitt next fall.
Those who wish to be con
sidered for enrollment in the 
class should send examples of 
their work to Miss Schmitt, at 
5840 Wilkins Avenue, before 
August 31, 1948. Such work 
may consist of a short story, a 
chapter of a novel, a series of 
ten or twelve poems, a long 
familiar essay, or a related se
ries of sketches.
The work should be accom
panied by a letter indicating 
the College in which the stu
dent is enrolled, his factor at 
the end of the preceding sem
ester, and the particular type 
of creative writing in which he 
is interested.
1948 Thistle 
Available Now 
At Bookstore
Subscribers Must 
Present Receipts
Twelve hundred copies of the 
Thistle are available at the book 
store this morning to those who 
have subscribed for them. Sub
scribers are asked to come early 
and to bring their receipts.
Commenting on the book, Clark 
Sloan, editor said, It covers Car
negie Techs largest graduating 
class, and therefore a large num
ber of pages are devoted to sen
iors. We have made an effort to cover all activities, so space alloted for each one has been cut 
down and long articles have been 
eliminated.
Ambrose To Enlarge 
Scope Of Technical
Walter J. Ambrose, newly-elected editor of the 1948-49 Carne
gie Technical, has announced plans for next year.
In the past, he stated, the Technical has attained a position 
of leadership among collegiate scientific publications. We intend 
to elevate the standards which have gained it the honor of being 
one of four such publications regularly entered in the Library of 
Congress. ?
We intend to enlarge the scope 
of interest of the Technical in sev
eral ways. Primarily, we intend to 
obtain articles of more general in
terest to the engineering and sci
ence students.
Managing editor Patrick P. Mc
Curdy commented that, for many 
years the tendency has been to 
associate engineers solely with 
facts and figures. In the coming 
issues, we hope to present engineering more in its professional 
aspects.
The features staff, under David 
R. Lide, will make a survey of 
seminar talks and term papers, in
search of article material. The 
Technical accepts articles from 
students of all colleges, Lide 
pointed out. We are especially 
interested in obtaining articles 
from Margaret Morrison students 
on those sciences, such as bacter
iology, not taugiit in the engi
neering college.The policy of the business 
staff, explained business man
ager David I. Sapper, is to pro
mote industrial advertising and to 
distribute the Technical to science and industry throughout the 
nation, in order to carry the name 
of the Carnegie Tech engineer to 
his future employer.
Robert Crago Expects Victory 
After Spirited Campaigning
IAC will face the most crucial test of its young life this 
week as it attempts to tip the balance of power in Student 
Council by electing a slate of seven candidates in the College
Candidates 
Tell Why They 
Are Running
In an attempt to give all the 
candidates for Student Council an 
equal opportunity to introduce 
themselves to the student body, 
the Tartan asked each of them to 
answer the question, Why do you 
want to become a member of Stu
dent Council.
The Tartan was unable to con
tact Hilde Jacob for a statement. 
Robert Paustian, Gerald Peck, and 
Virginia Gorman have withdrawn 
from the election.
The replies follow.Engineering
John Bigley  Mgt. JuniorPi 
Kappa Alpha, Thistle: To insure 
efficient organization of the Stu
dent Council, and active participa
tion and cooperation of each 
member in the council discussions,
I believe that the size of the Stu
dent Council should be cut.
Richard Deckmann  Chem. E. 
sophomore, Citcom Clan: The in
dependents must be educated to
Election Notice
Election of new members to 
Student Council will be held 
Friday, May 28, from 11:15 to 
1:45. Engineers may vote in Engineering or Administration 
halls; Fine Arts and Maggy 
Murph students in their re
spective schools.All students may vote in 
Skibo. Voters must produce 
their registration cards. No 
proxy voting is allowed. A list 
of nominees appears on pages 
one and six of this issue.Dorothy Romito is running as 
a voting representative from 
Margaret Morrison instead of 
non-voting secretary, as pre
viously announced.
APO will administer the vot
ing.
the idea that they are wanted and 
can be used. Id like to see ac
tivity representation distributed 
proportionately among the inde
pendent and fraternity students. John EnglePrinting freshman, 
Dorn Council, AIGA, Ski club: It 
is quite apparent that the voice 
of the present Council is weak 
and ineffective, especially in in
fluencing the school administra
tive policy toward the students. I 
feel that the students say should 
be given greater consideration in 
the formulation of the administra
tion program.Burton Epstein, Phys. soph., 
Tartan, Mens Glee club, Scotch 
and Soda, Beta Sigma Rho: I am 
completely independent of any po
litical affiliations or commitments. 
My opinions and policies are de
termined by me alone. As Tartan 
reporter I have seen Council in 
operation and believe I can make [Continued on page 6]
?of Engineering.
Robert The Whip Crago, chair
man of and strong man behind 
IAC expects a victory which will 
make possible the election of the 
groups twice defeated candidate 
for Student Council President, J. 
K. OHare. OHare oposed Ted Ul
rich for the position in March but 
was defeated by a four vote mar
gin.
Issues forming the basis of the 
campaigns being waged from all 
the camps are the key system, the 
National Student Association, the 
reorganization of Council, and 
student - administration relation
ship.
IACs campaign is being spear
headed by a person-to-person con
tact program in the dormitories, 
by an intensive display of posters 
on bulletin boards, and by the dis
tribution of a manifesto. The pro
ficient politicking of IAC is not 
without competition however, as 
colorful posters representing many 
other candidates are appearing on 
the campus.
The Whip and his aides drew 
the first blood of the campaign 
before the polls even opened, 
their candidate Brue Barrow be
ing unopposed for the office of 
non-voting representative from 
the College of Engineering. Bar
row will have a vote any time an 
engineering member is absent 
from Council, thus virtually pos
sessing a regular vote.
Reportedly IACs power had 
penetrated even into Margaret 
Morrison college where the group 
was alleged to be building up sup
port for the expected onslaught 
against the fraternities at the first 
meeting following the seating of 
the new Council.
The first objective will be to 
seat J. K. OHare as Council 
president. This post carries with 
it the power to name committee 
chairmen and to direct the overall 
activities of Council.
A large turnout is expected at 
the polls by APO, which will again 
be handling the election under the 
direct supervision of Council 
Elections chairman Jack Seward.
Glee Club 
Holds Concert
Mens Spring Concert 
Features Highlanders
Presenting its annual spring 
concert, the Carnegie Tech Mens 
Glee club will be heard in the 
Carnegie Music hall tomorrow 
evening at 8:30. Tickets for the 
concert are priced at one dollar.
Featured in addition to the en
tire group will be the Highlanders quartet which will sing a 
group of three numbers, Charles 
Tritle, soloist who will be heard 
in two numbers, and Bruce Bar
row, accompanist for the club who 
will be heard in a piano solo.

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MAY 25, 1948
arntgiciEartan
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes St., Pittsburgh, Pa. TELEPHONE: SC. 4557; after hours MU. 5365, SC. 8951. Published weekly during the school year, except holidays 
nd examination periods, by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Editor-in-Chief Business Manager . Associate Editor ... 
Personnel Manager
Robert W. Johnson.......... Samuel Moses. Burton L. Epstein ... Jay H. Johnson
News EditorRobert Kubiak, Features Editor__Gerald E
peck, Chief Copy EditorThomas P. Murray, Sports Editor 
Paul Offermann, Makeup EditorRobert Cloud, Art Editor Russell F. Kulberg, Advertising ManagerArthur G Zuch Circulation ManagerLewis S. Sternberg.
Copy EditorPat Petrick, Headline EditorMyra-Jane Barry, Proof EditorJohn Braun, Makeup Asst.Francis Cody 
Chief ReportersWilliam Johns, Bennard Perlman, Freder
ick C. Price, Mildred Teague, Alphonse Toppeto, Joseph Weinreich, Chief Sports ReporterBill Dorn, Chief PhotographerWilliam D. Benswanger.
Copy StaffMary Cauffield, Robert Heckert, Analee Gel- man, John Helmick.
Features StaffRobert Charpie, A. Starke Drischell, Martin Dorff, Carl Klahr.-
Senior ReporterF. R. Johnson, ReportersAinslie Bricker, Jo Crisanti, William Feeman, Frances Hamborsky, Camilla 
Hawthorne, Bea Patterson, Angelia Pollis, Ruby Weisberg. 
Cub ReportersMarvin Bachman, Hilda Chottiner. Ina Jean Cohen, Jane Conner, Bee Potter, Catherine Rudy, Marian Schrag, Anita Tambellini, Nancy Will.Sports StaffWarren Lithgow, Robin Molney.
Photography StaffRichard Deininger, Ames Penfield. Advertising StaffShirlee Goldenfeld, Marilyn Frykdahl, 
Leonard Smollen, Dave Stevenson, Circulation StaffMilton Sniderman, Malcolm Samakow, Dave Steiner, Herbert Stone. SecretaryVirginia Steinbach, TypistsHelen Brody, Betty Jane Baur.
Represented for national advertising by NATIONAL ADVER
TISING, Inc., College Publishers Representative, 420 Madison Ave., New York City. Subscription $1.10 per year.
Entered as second class matter on Oct. 4, '.907 at the Post Office at Pittsburgh, Pa., under the Act of March 3, 
1879. Accepted for mailing at special rate at postage pro
vided fo.- in the Act of February 28, 1925. Authorized October 21, 1918.
EditorialHow They Do Shout!
As the time for Student Council elections 
approaches we can expect battles to develop 
between the now clearly demarcated parties 
the fraternities on the one hand, and the inde
pendents, led by IAC, on the other.
Engineers who just a few days ago were the 
best of friends become temporary antagonists 
through being on opposite sides of the politi
cal fence, while the bulk of the undergraduate 
body sits in the middle wondering just what 
all the commotion is about.
Making Noises Like Candidates
Of a sudden issues spring magically 
from the ground, candidates announce their 
platforms and conscientiously take their 
stands on the vital issues facing the campus.
But no issues are being contested.
The only questions which caused Council 
to split along partisan lines in the past year 
were those which affected the voting system or 
procedure and through which one group or 
another expected to gain an advantage. On 
the vast majority of issues that affect the stu
dent body, members of Council vote as indiv
iduals.
Why then are there constant attempts to 
convince us that election issues should form 
the basis of Council elections?
First of all, election to Student Council 
carries with it a certain amount of prestige, 
something which any aggressive would-be poli
tician appreciates. Then again, organizations 
back candidates because they feel a man on 
Council will ensure them equitable treatment. 
Still other candidates run for office because 
they consider campus politics a sort of a game, 
from which they extract the same sort of enjo\ ment they would from any other sport.
ho Should Be a Councilman ?
The candidates elected on the above bases 
are not those who will create an efficient, intel
ligent governing body. The questions that 
should be asked of Council candidates are 
these: are they informed on student activities, 
are they interested in these activities, and do 
they exhibit an intelligent approach to the 
over-all campus picture?
Only when a resounding affirmative answer 
can be made to those questions by the majority 
of its members will Student Council reach the 
position of respect and responsibility which it 
can and should attain.
Right Face!
By Robert Charpie
:Buddy, Buddy9
Twas the day before Carnival when the gent 
walks up to me and saysUnderstand you like 
to gamble.
Well, I said, Ive been known to play a lit
tle poker with the boys once in a while, but Im 
no expertwhy do you ask?
Im going to give you a chance to make yourself 
a pile of dough in a hurry, says he.
Then he proceeded to draw from his pocket a 
table of what he calls Treasury Numbers payoffs. 
It seems that this guy is working his way through 
college selling numbers tickets. This must be the 
new look for the old magazine subscription busi
ness
You simply pick any old five digit number you 
like, and bet either a quarter or fifty cents on it. 
(The day he approached me he had only 50c 
tickets to sell. He probably hasnt got time to fool 
with the two-bit chicken feed, with the new tui
tion rates.) You hold your number for a week and 
if it is the last five numbers of the Post Gazette 
treasury balance any of those five days you win. 
Monday through Thursday the odds are something 
like 1800-1 and on Friday for a blue plate special 
they jump 3000-1.
There are about 30 combinations within the 
number which can produce secondary winners at 
much lowered oddsin fact if you hold the last 
two numbers you get even money back.
The salesman then went on to explain the ad
vantages of this system over any previously de
vised. It seems that since you have more numbers 
to pick from, your chances of being inhibited by 
not getting all of your favorites in makes you 
much better off psychologically.
When I ask if he didnt think the odds against 
winning were a little too high, he informed me 
confidentially that this was because so much of 
the profits had to be paid over for protection. I 
seriously doubt if he knows what he is talking 
about, but its a virtual certainty that he is im
pressed with what he thinks is a big-time position.
As an experiment to see how good a gambler 
my friend was, I offered to cut cards with him for 
a dollar a try. As I expected, he wouldnt cut even 
once. After all, whats the fun of gambling if you 
give the other guy an even break? Thats what his 
kind of people believe.
Its a reflection on the caliber of person at CIT 
to think that anyone can make money selling such 
a sucker scheme to the students. Dont get caught!! 
Use your head and you will realize that youre just 
throwing your money down the drain. If you have 
so much that you dont know what to do with it, 
hire me to manage it, or give it some worthwhile 
charity where it helps deserving people, instead of 
leeches, to live.
After all is said and done, a little calculating 
will show that almost any of the other recog
nized forms of gambling offers a better rate of 
return. I dont recommend either horses or roulette 
as worthwhile recreation, but you wont lose your 
money on either as quickly as you will on the 
Treasury numbers.
Wanta pitch a few pennieshm?
Letter To The Editor
'IAC Campaign 
Circular Attacked
Editor, the Tartan,
A mimeographed letter has been circulated on 
the campus during the last week to commuters and 
dorm residents by IAC stating the accomplishments 
cf their representatives on Student Council. The 
backers of IAC are claiming for the members of 
their organization credit for achievements these 
men have not actually made. These half-truths and 
innuendos should not be left unanswered before 
the election takes place.
They claim that J.K. OHare is sponsoring the 
change in the key system. That problem has been 
discussed in Council for months, but the first con
crete proposal to solve the problem was embodied 
in the Wright-Seward resolution. The work now 
being done is that of a committee, not that of one 
man.
They announce that Bill Johns is chairman of 
the committee re-writing the Council constitution. 
This is true, but most of the ideas and proposals 
in that committee have originated with the four 
other members, none of whom are affiliated with 
IAC.
They claim that Jack Anderson is steering the 
NSA bill through Council. The truth is that this 
bill was first introduced last semester in Council 
by Norman Larsen, and its only mention this 
semester was in the Wright-Seward resolution. None
[Continued on page 7)
1948 Is A Big Year 
For The Kiltie Band
Few campus organizations can 
look back on a year so well spent 
as can the Kiltie Band. Their 25th 
anniversary year has seen 
changes, changes for the better. 
The most spectacular marching 
band in the district is now tops 
for Tschaikowski and Gershwin.
It all started down in Washing
ton, Pa., last fall. After a two mile 
march to and from the game with 
W & J the band was given a ban
quet in the best hotel in town. Not 
all of the after-dinner speeches by 
band members were particularly 
inspiring, but they showed sincere 
interest in the band. At the end of 
the marching season there was a 
banquet at the University Club at 
which Dr. and Mrs. Doherty gave 
their go-ahead to the ambitious 
plans of Director Schaefer and 
Student Manager Ed Head.
Librarian Dean Streator took 
up all the well-worn Sousa and 
Goldman marches and let the boys 
start taking out Wagners and Vic
tor Herberts music to practice.
When the concert band appear
ed in its first concert April 2 the 
most amazed people were those 
who sat at the back of the first 
balcony expecting to be blown out 
of even those seats by the band 
that did such a good job of filling 
Forbes Field with music. The 
toning down and tuning up had 
required a great amount of work. 
Director Johnstone of the College 
of Fine Arts wrote, . . . How 
the band could accomplish so 
much in so little time is beyond 
my comprehension.
The first campus concert this 
spring was heard by a large crowd 
of students at the chapel hour on 
May 4. Dr. Williamson of the 
Physics Dept, meant it when he 
later wrote, Ten days ago I lis
tened to an hours concert by the 
Kiltie Band ... I am lost in as
tonishment and admiration.
For the fine progress that was 
evidenced this year the director, 
Mr. Schaefer, deserves a great deal 
of credit. His energy, patience, and 
perseverence at rehearsals are 
really remarkable.Big things are in store for the 
men in skirts next year. A trip to 
Bethlehem, Pa. for the Lehigh 
game will be the longest trip. The 
bi-annual trek to Grove City will 
provide a cold finish to the march
ing season.
The man who arranges these 
trips for the band is the manager, 
recently re-elected for next year, 
Ed Head. Ed is a Junior Manage
ment who has been faithfully tot
ing the big tuba around since the 
band was reorganized after the 
war.
The concert band next year will 
have even more opportunities to 
play in public than this year. Two 
formal concerts in Carnegie Mu
sic Hall are planned, and several 
high schools and civic clubs in 
outlying communities have invit
ed the band to play concerts there. 
More outdoor campus perform
ances can be counted on, too.
The number one problem of the 
Kiltie Band is literally to make 
the ends meet. Because when a 
63 trombone player comes in for a uniform and finds only a 
short skirt and a medium tunic 
left, it is most unlikely that the 
latter two items will meet at the 
formers middle.
With the profits from the spring 
concert and the money raised by 
the Tech Womens Club the band 
will want to increase gradually 
their supply of uniforms and re
place the older ones which are be
ing worn in the patched-up state 
now.
It will'be great to see the Kil
tie Band back at Forbes Field 
come football season next fall, but 
it is good to know that Tech has 
a fine concert band as well.
The Church Of The Redeemer
(Episcopal)
5700 Forbes Street 
nUGH S. CLARK. RECTOR
---------------------H--------------------
SUNDAY SERVICES
Holy Communion .................................................................... 8 a, m.
Morning Prayer and Sermon .......................................... 11 a* m.
(Holy Communion on 1st Sunday of Month at 11 a. m.) 
Service on the first Sunday of every month, in the Parish 
House, followed by Canterbury Club Meeting, 
also:
Every Thursday at Carnegie Inn (11:301:30)
All Students Welcome

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MAY 25, 148THE CARNEGIE TARTANS
Council Avoiding Issues, 
Dale Wright Complains
Key System, Student Finance,
New Constitution Under Discussion
By Leroy Bergstrom
Its getting to be a habit with everything to keep passing 
the buck, complained Dale Wright at the May 19 meeting of 
Student Council. Councilman Wrights declaration was directed 
toward Council action on a number of important questions, 
including the key awards system, matters of student finance, 
and the new, partially-formulated Council constitution.
Veterans Planning To Transfer 
May Apply For Certificates
Supplemental Certificates of Eligibility 
Available Thirty Days Before Semester End
Veterans who intend to continue their G. I. training at other 
institutions upon completion of the spring semester at Carnegie 
may apply for Supplemental Certificates of Eligibility thirty days 
in advance of the end of the spring semester, or any time after May 
26. Applications for Supplemental Certificates must be handed through 
the Veterans Center, 152 Industries Hall.
All Veterans in training under4-^^^--------------------------------------
With the attempt to oust the CIT* 
key system evidently fresh in 
mind, Sema Moskovitz declared 
during the discussion on proposed 
banquets for next years, Youre 
willing to spend $600 for a pub
lications banquet, but not for ac
tivities keys. Ten years from now 
you can look at a key and remem
ber your years at Tech. Once 
youve eaten your dinner, its 
over!
In spite of the mirth that it 
caused, Miss Moskovitzs comment 
expressed the stand of many 
Council members who wish the 
present key system or some form 
of it retained on the Carnegie 
campus.
Key Issue Side Tracked
Despite Jack Ewarts attempts 
to keep the issue of key awards 
on the floor long enough for 
Council to formulate a practical 
plan for the future, the question 
was sidetracked again on May 12 
by the appointment of another 
committee to study the enigma 
and report to Council May 26. A 
short preliminary report by Chair
man J. K. OHare on May 19 in
dicated that the committee felt 
that next fall the issue could be 
more adequately considered. Re
quests for suggestions from other 
schools have been made, but prob
ably cannot be analyzed and co
ordinated into a general plan in 
the few weeks remaining this 
spring, OHare reported. 
Publications Banquet Discussed
Discussion of next years pub
lications banquet temporarily 
help up approval of the budgets 
of campus organizations. The 
journalistic affair, probably the 
largest and most important ban
quet held during the year, 
prompted Marvin Gustavson to 
move that all of the publications 
be required to allow $50 in their 
budgets for the occasion.
He was met by outraged cries 
from representatives of the small
er publications such as Form, 
and equally violent opposition 
from Jack Ewart, Technical bus
iness manager, who complained, 
Our advertising staff is working 
like dogs and we still cant make 
a profit. Gustavson rapidly re
treated and withdrew his motion.
Budgets presented by Paul 
Schucker, chairman of the Budget 
committee, for the Scottie, Carne
gie Technical Publications (Tech
nical and Cano), Mortar Board, 
and Citcom Clan were approved 
With little discussion.Revive King of Hearts Ball
A proposal by Ernest Snoyer to 
bring back the most success
ful dance of the year resulted in 
the approval of his motion to re
quest Mortar Board to sponsor 
another King of Hearts ball next 
year. One of the most popular af
fairs on campus during the years 
it was held, the ball was discon
tinued this year for lack of a sponsor.
Another proposal by Snoyer, to 
establish a system of Big-brothers for incoming freshman men, 
was accepted by Council as an 
amendment to Freshman Regula
tions. Upperclassmen who volun
teer will act as advisers to new 
students during their first year at CIT.
Fifty-five dollars from the 
YWCA reserve fund was allocated 
to the annual all-school YMCA 
and YWCA Retreat to be held 
June 4 to 6 at Cooks Forest. Per
mission to transfer the $250 profit 
from the first Kiltie Band concert 
to the Band Uniform Account was granted.
A request by the Womens Glee 
club for a transfer of $75 from the 
reserve to the active fund was 
approved at the May 12 meeting. 
A motion by Jack Johnson to per
mit Delta Gamma sorority to hold 
a closed dance at the Jacktown hotel on May 28 was passed.
Results of the recent Technical 
and Cano elections were approved 
as a motion by Publications Committee chairman, Negley Reed. 
Carnival Committee Awarded Keys
Marilyn Allshouse, chairman of 
Points and Keys committee, pro
posed the award of gold keys to 
the chairmen of this years Spring 
Carnival committe. A motion by 
Negiey Reed to award them silver 
keys was defeated. General Chair
man Wilton Hawkins was award
ed a gold-jeweled key. Secretary 
Jane Gavert and committee chair
men Dale Wright, William Meyers, 
Bennard Perlman, Lawrence John
son, Theodore Ulrich, Thomas 
Hall, Vincent OBrien, Jack Sew
ard, William Poirier, Seymour 
Tomashoff, Ivan Faigen, Edward Von Halle, Allen Yorkin, and 
William Bourke were awarded gold keys.
John N. Grace 
Wins Free Trip 
To Mexico City
John Nelson Grace, junior elec
trical, was awarded a free trip to 
Mexico City in a competition on 
May 15 at the regional meeting of 
the American Institute of Elec
trical Engineers in Columbus, Ohio.
In competition with students 
from eighteen other colleges, 
Grace won first prize with his pa
per on Electroencephalography. 
This same paper, the title of 
which means brainwaves, pre
viously won the Carnegie Tech 
Branch and Pittsburgh Section 
competitions.
The prize-winning trip is to the 
national AIEE convention in June, 
which will be held in Mexico City.
Jonh Biewener
Biewener Plans 
To Enlarge 
Thistle Size
John Biewener, editor of the 
Thistle for next year, plans to in
crease the size and quality of the 
year-book by additional ad space 
and a well-rounded capable staff. 
The school is enlarging and the 
number of organizations are in
creasing, so we want tc make the 
book large enough to accommo
date all, the new editor said.
He feels that since the year
book is the most important publi
cation to the college student as 
the years go by, it should be com
plete in its coverage and wellrounded enough to suit everyone.
Regarding the financial condi
tion of Thistle this year, he de
clares that: There is no reason 
in the world why we should have 
a similar financial situation next 
year, because we will know the 
pit-falls.
The minimum price next year 
will be $5.00the price* that most 
colleges charge for their year
books. We will make the book as 
large as advertising will permit. 
If we can double the ad space (10 
additional pages), we will be 
able to add 50 pages. What we 
really need are 15 or 20 people to 
solicit ads, but if we cant find the 
ads well do the best we can.
The Thistle needs people to so
licit ads right now, and will need 
art students in the fall in addition 
to all other students interested in 
working on the publication. Bie
wener makes an earnest call for 
all those intersted in soliciting ads 
to contact him now at the Carne
gie Union.
the G. I. Bill (Public Law 346) 
during the present semester will 
be carried in training until July 
11, 1948, unless they specifically 
request interruption of their train
ing at the end of the semester, 
June 26. This is in accord with 
the 15 day automatic extension 
period inaugurated by the Veter
ans Administration September 1, 
1947, for which subsistence is paid 
and entitlement charged.
Veterans who do not wish their 
entitlement so reduced must notify 
the Veterans Administration not 
later than June 1. Mimeographed 
forms for this purpose are avail
able and may >e turned in at the 
Veterans Center and Veterans Ad
ministration Offices, 152 and 144-A 
Industries Hall. This procedure 
does not affect veterans training 
under Public Law 16. It is still 
necessary for this group to make 
application for leave desired.
Those veterans registering for 
summer classes at Carnegie must 
file a report of earnings at the time 
of registration if they desire to re
ceive subsistence checks on time. 
Veterans who have been employed 
during the period of the present 
semester must secure a copy of 
this Form 7-1963, have it signed 
by their employer, and turn it in 
completed when they register for 
the summer session or semester. 
Forms are available at the Veter
ans Center and Administration
Offices, 152 and 144-A Industries 
Hall.
Veterans who have not been 
employed during the period of 
spring semester may secure the 
Report-of-Earnings Form when 
they register, complete it then, 
and turn it in with other registra
tion papers. Those who will not 
be attending summer classes here 
are not required to file a report of 
earnings for the spring semester.
Gloria Bergman 
Elected Honorary 
Cadet Colonel
Having been elected Honorary 
Cadet Colonel by the CIT unit 
of the ROTC on Thursday, May 
20, Gloria Bergman will join 
President Doherty and the military 
staff in reviewing the unit on 
June 3. Following the review Miss 
Bergman, a junior in Margaret 
Morrison, will present a gold cup 
to the outstanding company in the 
battalion.
Other honorary officers have 
also been elected. Carole Cole, 
freshman P&D, was named exe
cutive officer while Jeanne Andeson, Vera Latchic, and Bob
bie Billings were chosen respec
tively the company sponsors for 
A, B, and C companies.
! Don't tote 
that bag and lift that luggage all 
the way home. Use the College 
WayRAILWAY EXPRESS!
Well pick up all the heavy stuff at your college 
dorm and deliver it to your home. Charges 
include pick-up and delivery in all cities 
and principal towns, and valuation 
coverage up to $50.00 or only 50 per pound 
over one hundred pounds.
TRAVEL RIGHT BY TRAVELING LIGHT 
(Oh, yesyou can send your things home "charges collect)
CALL YOUR RAILWAY EXPRESS OFFICE
2VOOLV.41NoOTFF
KEEP FUN GOING. 
PAUSE FOR COKE
. plus lfS 
State Tax
 BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY ^ 
COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO. OF PA., PITTSBURGH, PA.
O 1948, Th Coca-Colo Company

---------------------------------------------------

iTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MAY 25, 18
EXPERT REPAIRS
RADIOS, PHONOGRAPHS, APPLIANCES
Sales and Service
LEWIS RADIO 
ELECTRIC CO.
1123 OAKLAND AVE. MA. 4211
Bring Your Radio Problems 
To Us
22 TEARS EXPERIENCE 
At Your Service
Let's go to
ISALY'S
Milk Shakes 
Big Ice Cream Cones 
Klondikes 
Tasty Lunches
Three Stores In the College District
6808 Farfcts Strut 8'iirrtl Hill 
3714 Fork Strut Oakland
Main Plant:
8380 Stalwart af tka AHIaa
Undefeated Gringoes Set 
Pace In Federal League
ATO Retains Top Position 
In AL Despite Beta Victory
Gringoes, still undefeated in softball competition, kept up 
their torrid pace in the Federal league by sweeping over Phi 
Kappa and TX and taking a forfeit win from the Dorm B. 
TNT also continued on its five game winning streak with a 
5-3 victory over the Tau Delts, to keep a firm grip on first 
place in the National league. Despite its first setback of the 
year at the hands of the Betas,*
ATO retained the top position in 
the American league.
Softball Standings
SOFTBALL STANDINGS 
National League Won Lost
Delts .......................................32Sigma Nu No. 1 ..................22..............11DU .....................................................23Tau Delts ...................................12..............12
..............03
American LeagueWonLost
ATO ................................................411
..............32
SAE ................................................22
Dorm Combine............................22
..............13..............03
Federal LeagueWonLost
..............40
Phi Kaps .....................................512
Nine Old Men ............................22
Kappa Sig ...................................23..............23
Sigma Nu No. 2 .......................14
..............15
SAE Wins 
IM Rifle
Matches
Upon completion of the intra
mural rifle competition on Thurs
day, May 20 at the rifle range, 
Sigma Alpha Epsilon I emerged 
victorious with a total team score 
of 953 out of a possible 1200 points.
Not only did the SAE I team 
win the competition, but the SAE 
2 team finished a close second 
with 926 points. No other team 
came close to these marks as the 
third place ATO 2 only amassed a 
score of 898 points.Individual honors went to Col
bert of Phi Kappa who compiled 
a total of 98 points out of a possi
ble 100 in the high prone position. 
MacKinnis of SAE 1 topped all 
contenders in the kneeling posi
tion, scoring 88 points out of a 
possible 100. High scorer in the 
standing position was Poe of 
Alpha Tau Omega 2, who posted 
a score of 86 out of a possible 100 
points and also compiled the best 
score for all three positions.
Standings: SAE 1, 953; SAE 2, 926; ATO 
2, 898; Beta Theta Pi, 858; Theta Xi, 818; ATO 1. 801; Phi Kappa, 767; Sigma Nu, 757; PiKA, 740; Kappa Sigma, 684. 
Forfeited: Delta Upsilon, Beta Sigma Rho, Citcom.
In their two wins the Gringoes 
took full advantage of 16 walks 
issued by the opposing pitchers to 
score 8-3 over the Phi Kapps and 
12-8 over TX.
The Sigma Nu No. 2 team eked 
out a 13-12 win over Dorm B in 
a slug fest that saw the victors 
getting 16 hits and the losers 12. 
Theta Xi combined wildness on 
the part of the Kappa Sig hurler with nine hits to coast to a 
11-1 victory.
A four base knock by Collins 
with one on in the bottom of the 
sixth gave the Phi Kaps their 
fourth victory of the season by a 
10-8 count over PiKA.
Scoring in every inning except
the first, Sigma Nu No. 1 cop
ped its second win of the year by 
edging DU 7-4. Although the 
DUs outhit the victors 12 to 9, 
they failed to connect for any long 
hits with men on base. Burly Mike 
Theodore, Sigma Nu third-sacker, had a perfect day at the plate, 
collecting four hits in four times 
at bat.
Overcoming an early Tau Delta 
lead, the Delts pushed over two 
runs in the seventh inning to reg
ister a 10-8 upset. Jim Taylor, 
Delt pitcher, allowed the losers 
only four hits, but poor fielding by 
his team mates in the early in
nings kept him in hot water. Three 
Tau Delt errors in the seventh in
ning enabled the Delts to score 
[Continued on page 5]
3 Hour Dry Cleaning
Raincoats Showerproofed
Quick Laundry Service
CAMPUS CLEANERS
4609 Forbes St.MUseum 1288
SPALDING
AMERICAS MOST DEFINITE CONTRIBUTION TO TENNIS IS THE^TVriST SERVICE"...THE 
HAK^HTr.TWISTINS, HIGK50DNCIN6 BALL ALLOWS THE SERVERTIME TO TAKE THE NET
Paul Offermans
Faithful Dean of Heat 
Lamps and Liniment 
Bids C1T Farewell
The man with the little black bag and a heart as big as 
a football will be taking his leave from us in only a few 
weeks. No longer will the cry Bert, where the hell are you?, 
which has eehoed through the gymnasium and the field house 
for the past 34 years, bring to the scene the stocky figure of 
William (Bert) Munhall.
During his long stay at Carnegie, Bert has carved a niche 
for himself in the hearts of hundreds of athletes to whose pains 
and bruises he has so skillfully ministered. 
In fact, the school itself is greatly indebted to 
Bert for the many, many well conditioned teams 
he has fielded.
Bert gave up a railroad job to take the 
position of dean of liniment and heat lamps 
at Carnegie in February, 1914. Since that time 
he has served faithfully, through feast and 
famine, with the Plaids athletic squads. He 
will forever be able to brag about the 1917 
footbal eleven, the first Carnegie team to beat Pitt, the 1926 
and 1928 teams which took the measure of Notre Dame, and the 
great Sugar Bowl team of 1938.
Berts prowess as a trainer is nationally recognized and 
his advice on technical matters is often sought by his colleagues. 
One of the reasons why all Carnegie athletes hold him in such 
high regard dates back to the 1915 football season, when Frank 
Altdoerffer received a broken neck in one of the games. Had 
it not been for Bert, Altdoerffer would not have lived. Verge 
Cantini, the present backfield coach, suffered a similar injury 
in 1941 in a game against Muhlenburg, and once again Bert 
was on the job.
On Saturday, June 15, Bert will be honored at a fare
well luncheon in the Carnegie Inn. The Inn is, fittingly enough, 
the scene of Berts inaugural appearance on Carnegies sports 
scene since it was formerly the gymnasium.
H. C. Godden 22, the president of the Athletic Board, will 
serve as Master of Ceremonies. Dr. Miner will represent the 
school; Carl F. Dozer, president of the Alumni Federation, will 
say a few words in behalf of the alumni; Harry Keck, sports 
editor of the Sun-Telegraph, will be there for the newspapers; 
James E. Kesner 17, a quarterback of the 1914 team, will 
represent Berts first football squad; and Clarence (Buddy) 
Overend, Director of Intercollegiate Athletics, will also speak. 
C. B. Groomes 49, captain of the 1947 football team, and Ray 
Warner, president of C Club will represent the students.
Everyone interested in paying a farewell tribute to Bert 
may obtain tickets for the luncheon at the Athletic office or 
from the C Club, which is sponsoring the affair.
Sportscope
$e& rHtH pon**
THE TWINS OF 
CHAMPIONSHIP TENNISThe Spaldinc and the Spalding, 
madeWbicht* Ditson Tennii Balls I lead the field in official adoption* for Major Tournaments, including th U. S. Davis Cup and National Championship.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MAY 25, 1948THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
Tartan Golfers Top Geneva; 
Westminster WinsI6V2 tollV2
After topping the Geneva Covies by a 13-5 score last Monday, 
the Carnegie Tech golfers fell to Westminsters squad three days 
later in an 11 Vi -16 M2 match.
In their contest with Geneva, the Tartans were forced to cope
with a heavily rain-soaked coursed---------------------------------------------
at the Pittsburgh Field club, but 
managed to win two hotly contest
ed rounds to score their win.
Euwer and Schiller of Carnegie 
both carded 87s to edge Bell and 
Ruggles of Geneva who shot 89s.
Firestone of Geneva shot well 
under Kwoleks 91 to score a vic
tory as the match got under way, 
and it was not until the third 
round, when Sill took all possible 
points from Capozzer of Geneva, 
that the Skibos began building 
their score.
At the Alcoma Country Club 
against Westminster, the Carnegie 
squad found the going much more 
difficult. Johnson of the Plaid 
turned in a three point sweep in 
his match.
Netmen Bow 
In Two Meets
Miller, Burkhardt, and 
Taylor Star For Plaid
Tartan netmen lost two close 
5-4 matches last week, to West 
Virginia at home on Thursday and 
away at Grove City on Saturday 
afternoon.
The match with West Virginia 
was featured by three-set and ex
tra-game matches. Bassett, of Car
negie, won a bitterly contested 
game from Nash 9-11, 10-8, 6-3.
MENS WEAR
5872 Forbes St. Squirrel Hill
Open Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday Evenings
Having run out of ordinary adjectives . . ,
WE ASKED A POET!
to describe the new
Arrow
"Sumara"
sport shirt
rAnd he said:
1. Cool as the frost on a frosty glass'
2. Light as a humming birds footsteps. / ^|\
3. Washable as a baby beaver 
4. Handsome as a new golf ball?QC'!
... Then he rushed out and bought one!
Sumara is made of silky spun rayon, light yet rugged, comes 
in short and long sleeves and is unconditionally washable.
See your Arrow dealer for an Arrow Sumara today!
ARROW SHIRTS and TIESa-----------------------------------------------------------------------------IT*
UNDERWEAR  HANDKERCHIEFS  SPORTS SHIRTS
Campus Headquarters for Arrow Products, Nationally Known Clothing and Furnishings
LEONARDS MENS SHOP
Comer Forbes and Atwood St.Oakland
Make "BUD" your ARROW 
Headquarters
236 Diamond St.
Across From Donahoes
ATlantic 2964
t\AEA/ 0
Ray Warner New 
Varsity Club Head
In a meeting held in the Black 
Cat last Tuesday, the Varsity C 
club elected the following to of
fice: Ray Warner, president; Jim 
Trautman, vice-president; Robin 
M. Molny, secretary; Roland Hoff
man, treasurer.
Retiring president C. B. 
Groomes announced that juniors 
as well as seniors are now eligible 
to receive their C awards on 
blankets. Groomes urged all men 
interested to see Mr. Overend in 
the athletic office as soon as pos 
sible to facilitate speedy ordering.
Miller, starring for the Plaid, 
won his singles match and team 
ed with Burkhardt to win in dou
bles. Taylor brought home the other victory.
Results of the Grove City match: 
SINGLESTaylor, (CIT), defeated Ely, (GC) 6-2, 6-4; Millsop, (GC), defeated Cronin, (CIT), 6-4, 6-2; McConnell, (CIT), defeated Wilson, (GC), 6-4, 4-6, 6-3; Stros- ser, (GC), defeated Miller, (CIT), 8-6, 6-4; Barkes, (GC), defeated Burkhardt, 
(CIT), 6-0, 6-1; Smith, (GC), defeated Kroko, (CIT), 6-2, 4-6, 6-T.DOUBLES Ely and Wilson, (GC), defeated Mon- stream and Taylor, (CIT), 7-5, 6-0, 8-6; Cronin and McConnell, (CIT), defeated Millsop and Strosser, (GC), 4-6, 6-3, 6-1; Miller and Burkhardt, (CIT), defeated Parkes and Smith, (GC), 6-4, 6-4.
Tartans Take Third 
In Tristate Track
Mile Relay Team Breaks Record; 
Cassler Steals Dash Honors
In a dramatic climax to a thrilling track meet, speedy A1 
Yarian thundered across the finish line as Carnegie Techs un
beaten mile relay team rolled in with a record breaking time 
of 3:33.0 and paced the Tartans to third place in the Tri-State 
Intercollegiate Championships at Slippery Rock, Saturday, 
March 22.
But individual honors were reserved for flashy Ernie Cass
ler, who once again asserted that*
he was the outstanding sprinter 
in the district. The Plaid ace, 
whose supremacy was threatened 
only by Westminsters freshman 
sensation Art Jones, gave a whirl
wind display of speed as he press
ed Jones to a ercord breaking 100 
yard dash of 9.6. The Windber 
Whippet, who led the scorers with 
10 Vi points, rebounded from this 
narrow defeat to take a decisive 
ten yard victory from his rival in 
the 220 yard dash.
It was a tired but still game 
Cassler that started the Techmen 
off to victory in the relay by es
tablishing a substantial lead in 
the opening quarter. Two torrid
fl
til
iBUtt
i5Si*!52
;;;; iff, USS -s3'
.IjBullil llll Ill I llllfT~ jjj'i: !3HID 1152 Ilf I 3311
im
lili fWI
Hii
Sgii !
Si MSS
1111 tti llll IIyx
iiiii-i 3 i m. lear% m
$\i s*"
 sss" 
isss sags
f Bilia IBS
J IMI il] g Bill
l *!! !"!!' Bi0D m ilium _
Whats back of lhal name 
for YOU?
Back of the name Western Electric are 130,000 men and 
women who help make your Bell Telephone service the 
worlds bestat the lowest possible cost.
Where are they? What do they do?
Theyre in factories in 18 cities, making vast amounts of 
telephone equipment designed by their teammates at Bell 
Telephone Laboratories:
Theyre all over the map, buying all kinds of Bell System 
supplies from other manufacturers.
Theyre at 29 distributing houses, filling orders from 
Bell Telephone companies for apparatus and supplies.
More than 31,000 of them are in mobile crews installing 
intricate central office switchboards and equipment.
In doing this huge jobone of the most complex in 
industryWestern Electric people are contributing daily to 
the efficiency and economy of your Bell Telephone service.
Western Electric
A UNIT OF THE BELL
laps by Fred Price and Ivor Davies 
found the Tartans still in front 
by two strides. Yet, it remained 
for Yarian to bring the crowd to 
their feet with his gallant finish 
that spelled victory and a new 
record for the Plaid.Only other first place credited 
to Carnegie was chalked up by un
beatable Ivor Davies, who won the 
880 yard run with relative ease.
Team honors went to the Grove 
City entry which copped second 
place in the relay to squeeze ahead 
of Genevas Covenanters, 46% to 
45.Only sad note in the CIT pic
ture was that reliable Gene Riehl 
was making his last appearance 
for the Tartans. Riehl, the only 
senior on the squad, bowed out of 
the local track scene with his 
usual fine showing, taking second 
place in the high jump and fourth 
in the broad jump.
Palestine
[Continued from page 1]
ment for maintaing world peace 
and for fostering international 
cooperation.
The letter read further, We 
believe that the partition plan im
plemented by an international po
lice force under the direction of 
the United Nations can restore 
peace with justice to Palestine. 
Closing by calling for firm back
ing of the UN partition proposal, 
the letter points out that a firm 
stand by the United States would 
go far in enhancing its prestige 
throughout the world.
SYSTEM SINCE 1882
Softball
[Continued from page 4] 
the winning runs.Bunching four of their six hits 
with two ATO errors, the Betas 
scored five runs in the second in
ning in registering a surprise win 
over the league leaders by a 7-4 
score. Dixon, the Betas pitcher, 
retired the ATOs in order in the 
first three innings before giving 
up two runs in the fourth and one 
each in the fifth and sixth.
T. S. suffered their third 
straight setback at the hands of 
the Betas 8-2. In tne previous 
week, Norm Larsen, ATO pitching 
ace, handcuffed T. S. without a hit, 
thereby becoming the first hurler 
of the present season to enter 
CITs softball hall of fame.With Radcliff, Gribble and Mc
Connell burning up the base paths, 
Dorm Combine scored an easy 
6-3 win over SAE. The trio stole 
the startling total of nine bases.
Hartman of FPHA also turned 
in a no-hitter but gave up three 
runs on eight walks as his mates 
knocked over Beta Sig 7-3. Four 
runs in the second and three in 
the fifth were more than enough 
to wrap up the decision for the 
barracks men.
Play is expected to pick up this 
week when twilight games are 
started in order to take care of a 
large backlog of postponements. 
The Intramural Board has put 
out an urgent plea for more um
pires to take care of the twilight 
contests.
TECH BARBER SHOP
Quick Efficient Service at the 
FOUR BARBERS TO 
SERVE YOU
Corner of Craig and Forbes

---------------------------------------------------

6THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MAY 25, 1948
percentage of participating mem
bers.
George Varan, Mgt. jr., Phi 
Kappa, SAM, Newman club, var
sity football: I would like to end 
this strife which has arisen be
tween the independents and fra
ternities. I believe we have mutual 
interests and what we do for one 
should help us all.George Zenk, EE, jr., Kiltie 
Band: I should like to see fra
ternity and independent men represented in Council in proportion 
to their interest shown in campus 
life by their participation in activ
ities.Margaret Morrison
Patricia Adams, Gen. Studies, 
soph., Cwens, Scottie, Technical, 
Kappa Alpha Theta: To make 
Student Council more eiffcient and 
better organized and to encourage 
participation in campus activi
ties.Doreen Evans, Home Ec. soph., 
Delta Delta Delta, Scottie, CWCA, 
Home Ec. club: Having heard 
many of my fellow classmates dis
agreeing on various actions of the 
Student Council, I am desirous of 
representing them and making 
suggestions which will be bene
ficial to them.Carol Kamman, Sec. soph., Kap
pa Alpha Theta, Womens Glee 
club: I would like to better stu
dent government through more 
efficient organization and active 
participation by all members to
further a more spirited campus 
life.
Sally Luther, Sec. Soph., Delta 
Gamma: I sincerely believe that 
I could capably fulfill the aims 
and ideals that are expected by 
the electors of their chosen rep
resentative in Student Council.
Frances Rea, Home Ec, soph., 
Glee club, Cwens, Technical, Del
ta Gamma: A more efficient stu
dent governing body should aim 
towards more student participa
tion in campus activities.
Dorothy Romito, Home Ec. soph., 
WAA Board, CWCA, Delta Gam
ma, Home Ec. club: I want to be 
a member of Student Council so 
that I may have an active part in 
the affairs concerning the entire 
student body and to help better 
conditions in any way possible.Fine Arts
Richard Fleischman, Arch, soph., 
Phi Kappa, Delta Skull, Techni
cal, Newman club, As a member 
of Student Council I will try to 
stimulate student activities and 
encourage better relations be
tween faculty and students.
Jack Garver, P&D soph., Kappa 
Sigma, Scottie, intramurals: By 
encouraging and acting upon sin
cere criticism from the students 
I hope to promote a stronger voice 
in Student Council for the par
ticular interests of those in the
Keys Notice
Dean Dickinson has an
nounced that no orders for keys 
will be placed by his office, re
gardless of Student Council 
approval, until a definite policy 
is decided upon by Council 
to cover all of this years key 
awards.
College of Fine Arts.
Gaylord Hawkins, Drama soph., 
Theta Xi, Alpha Phi Omega, 
Scotch and Soda, Beaux Arts: I 
desire to do my part to bring 
about better cooperation between 
the students and the faculty and to instill more school spirit among 
the students.
Robert E. Hazard, P&D soph., 
Delta Upsilon, Pi Delta Epsilon, 
Scottie: I feel I can better facil
itate a closer understanding be
tween the departments of the Art 
School and the Engineering School 
particularly in regard to publica
tions where closer cooperation is essential.
Gwen McDade, Arch, soph., Al
pha Tau Omega, Canterbury club: 
I would like to see a further 
spread of a program of teacher 
evaluation by the students to all 
the colleges, also more all school 
traditional eventssuch as a Fall 
Carnival, and a more rigid en
forcement of freshman regulations.
Squirrel Cage 
Opens Friday
Putch Adapts Play 
From Gilberts Novel
Friday night, May 28, will mark 
the eighth and last opening night 
of the school year. The Squirrel 
Cage, adapted from Edwin Gil
berts novel by William Putch, a 
junior playwriting student, is the 
fourth original play to be pro
duced this year.
A satire on Hollywood, The 
Squirrel Cage is the story of a 
young writer who is brought to 
Hollywood to adapt his play for 
the screen. There he meets a situ
ation with which he is unable to 
cope. His fellow writers, under 
the guise of friendship, pick his 
talent clean in order to further 
their own interests. He is spied 
upon, plagarized and falsely ac
cused of being a communist.
The play has a wealth of com
edy and an excellent cast. Tony 
Willard, the playwright, will be 
played by Elek Hartman and Rich
ard Riebling; Day, the pulchritu
dinous secretary, by Linda Redd 
and Renee Orkin; Thelma, Tonys 
secretary, by Sada Thompson and 
Nancy Marchand.
CouncilCampaigns
[Continued from page 1] 
a constructive contribution.
John Fockler  Mgt. junior  
SAM., Tartan, swimming team: 
My main interest in Student 
Council is in a more workable 
council that would allow or pro
vide for more independent activ
ities on campus. Specifically, I am 
interested in the present plan for 
reducing the size of the Council, 
and the reorganization of it.
John HornerMgt. soph, Alpha 
Tau Omega, Cano, SAM: I am 
in favor of issuing certificates in 
place of keys, with the receiver 
having the option of buying his 
own key.Jack G. JohnsonMgt. junior, 
Student Council, Y-Cabinet, Kap
pa Sigma, Mens Glee club: Stu
dent Council must assert itself to 
the fullest extent in conducting any investigations or making rec
ommendations to the administra
tion in the interest of the student 
body.William KnightlyMgt. sopho
more, Delta Skull, Kappa Sigma, 
WCIT, track team: I believe
Student Council should more ac
tively support extra-curricular ac
tivities by increased financial aid, 
by correction of the key system, 
and by urging the student body 
to participate in all school activi
ties.Charles Koester, Phy. soph., 
Delta Upsilon, Kiltie Band, Scim
itar, Technical: Council is effic
ient and effective to the degree 
that its members realize that they 
dont represent factions, but in
terdependent groups of students 
with much the same ultimate 
goals. I would welcome the oppor
tunity to work on council with 
this principle in mind.Arbon Lang, Mgt. fr., Citcom 
Clan: I would give Tech a rep
resentative student government 
by adoption of OHares system of 
voting, representation from each 
class rather than all schools, elim
ination of activity award keys, 
direct Council supervision of freshmen orientation, affiliation 
with N. S. A.Gerald Meyers, Mgt. jr., Mens 
Dorm Council, varsity football, 
varsity wrestling, Varsity C 
club: Responsibility of the Stu
dent Council today far outweighs 
its authority. I will fight to return 
the lost power of the Council in 
order that it may once again set 
its plans into action. The stu
dent versus administration mis
understanding must come to an 
end.Allan Poe, Mgt. Jr., Pi Delta Ep
silon, SAM, Alpha Tau Omega, 
Cano: Give NSA a chance, and if 
it doesnt pan out, then do away 
with it, but at least give it a fight
ing chance. Reduce size of coun
cil by changing representation 
from one to 100 to one to 150. 
Keys should not be purchased out 
of Council funds.Barry Rowles, Mgt. soph., Scim
itar, Delta Skull, Theta Tau, Del
ta Tau Delta: No adequate con
trol and promotion of all-school 
activities can be maintained un
less men proven to be competent 
are elected to council. Temporary 
platforms, hearsay, and political 
party are poor criteria upon which 
to judge a candidate.Patrick Ryan, Met. soph., Glee 
club, AIME, Canterbury club, 
Sigma Alpha Epsilon: Distribu
tion of keys should be cut down. 
The system has become something 
like the army system based not 
on what you do, but on who you 
know. I dont approve of organ
izations voting themselves big 
chunks of money to throw ban
quets, but the Kiltie Band, Glee 
Club, and Spring Carnival which 
have sources of revenue should be 
allowed to include a banquet on 
their budget.
David Sapper, Chem. Jr., Tau 
Beta Pi, Pi Delta Epsilon, Tech
nical, Tau Delta Phi: First, pub
lications must be kept free from 
control and second, an equitable 
student government must be up
held.Stanley Siegel, Mgt. Jr., Beta 
Sigma Rho, Theta Tau, Omicron 
Delta Kappa, Scotch and Soda: I 
am interested in seeing Council 
become a more effective and ef
ficient organization with a larger
Have you made up your mind on what 
youll do when you graduate this June? If not, 
consider the opportunity available to you in the 
Aviation Cadets. 0
Few jobs anywhere can match this offer. 
When you win your wings and a Second Lieu
tenants commission, youre paid as high as $336 
per month to start. The training you get before 
and after youre commissioned is recognized as the 
worlds finest and it equips you for a well-paid 
lifetime career in military or commercial aviation.
Youre eligible for appointment to the Cadets 
if youre single, between 20 and 26 Vz years old, 
and have completed at least one-half the'requirements for a degree from an accredited college or 
university (or pass an equivalent examination).
Talk the program over with men in your class 
who have been Aviation Cadets. And for full 
details, ask at your nearest U. S. Army and U. S. 
Air Force Recruiting Station. Why not drop in 
today and discuss it?
II. S. Army and II. S. Air Force Recruiting Service
WIN YOUR WINGS 
WITH THE AVIATION CADETS

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MAY 25, 1948THE CARNEGIE TARTAN7
New Head of Night Council, 
George Bogovich Is A Busy Man
With three nights of class a week, six days of work a week, 
membership in one fraternity, and president of Evening Student 
Council, do you think you could still maintain a mellow person
ality? It can be done, for George Bogovich is evening schools testi
mony that it can be done.
Dont get yourself behind the 
eight ball if you are one of the 
fortunate who can drive to school. 
When the local ball team has a 
night game scheduled the same 
evening as evening classes, there 
is a little difficulty in securing a 
spot to park because the Pirate 
fans seem to get here about the 
same time as the students. To 
avoid having all parking taken by 
the baseball fans, a guard is to be 
posted at the parking lots about 
the campus, and if you are ready 
and wise, you will have your reg
istration card for admittance to any of the parking lots.
Complaints were the order of the day and the question is Why 
does everyone insist on throwing 
their cigarette butts on the class 
room floors? Could it be that they 
think they are at home!! Speaking 
of cigaretteshas anyone ever 
seen Mrs. Heath give herself a 
hotfoot? Her nylons must be of 
the highest grade because they
George came to Techs evening 
school in 1940 and has been at it 
ever since with only one inter
ruption: an invitation to join
the Army in 1944. He served in 
the Infantry and advanced to the 
rank of top privatethe highest 
one can go in that organization 
and still maintain friends, or so 
George claims.
After leaving Uncle Sams com
pany in 1946, George re-entered
didnt show any signs of damage.
After working for two and a 
half hours setting up an experi
ment in the A.C. lab class, one 
group just couldnt get their ap
paratus working properly. The in
structor decided it was his turn to 
work on it and connected every
thing over again. Simms sidled 
over to the Prof. and asked if he 
had used a diagram for his setup. 
The Prof. answered, Yes. 
Whereupon Simms sneeringly said, 
Anybody can use a diagram to 
connect it up right.
Tech with a bang. Four nights of 
class per week and participation 
in student activities keep George 
mighty busy^ During these past 
years, George joined Sigma Delt, 
student council and worked on last 
years Engineers Banquet. This 
year, he directed the social cal
endar of dances, swimming par
ties and banquet.
This spring George was elected 
president of Student Council. With 
the financial situation as it is, the 
problems he will encounter are 
great. The social activities, 
Georges big promotion of the 
year, will take up the greater por
tion of his time.
We wish him good fortune next 
year for he deserves it. Good 
luck, George. May the year bring 
you the best.
Letter
[Continued from page 2]
of these men are affiliated with
IAC.
They boast that Robert Fulton 
and Jack Anderson are on the 
committee that is attempting to 
devise a better system of repre
sentation and voting procedure. 
They neglect to mention that this 
committee came into existence 
through a motion by Jack Seward 
which was bitterly denounced at 
the time by IAC affiliates. The 
chairman of this committee is Mr. 
Wright.
Why must IAC use these ,untruths in its campaigning?
Dick Shaffer, 
Member of Student Council.
Most Up-to-Date Restaurant in Oakland
BETSY ROSS TEA ROOM
3716 Forbes Street 
 IDEAL LUNCHES  TASTY SANDWICHES
* * THE CARNEGIE PLAID * *
____________________P^e Edited by Evening School Students of Carnegie Institute of Technology
' ' *'! W1 r*">W CW
arn tnatg irr icEKPEEPF UNG OnI .nEUA S
Registration Notice
Registration for the supple
mentary term will be held Fri
day evening, June 18, from 7:00 
to 9:00 in room 132-A, Industries 
Hall. Classes begin Monday, June 
21, and continue through August 
14.
Grades will be available the 
evening of registration, June 18, 
for those students who are regis
tering for the supplementary term. 
Grade reports are mailed to each 
student as soon as possible, after 
the end of the semester.
The Carnegie Plaid
Editor 
Cecille Zellner 
News Editor 
Anne Shack 
Associate Editors 
George Bogovich Catherine RomanoffPage edited by Evening School stu
dents of Carnegie Institute of Technology. All views or opinions expressed in editorial column are not necessarily en
dorsed by the Editorial Board of the Day School staff.
StaffLou Adams George Dawes
Ray Schwalm Charlene J. ToheyBill Wallace A1 Snowden
Frank Mihelic Jim FlahertyPat Schaffer
Not even Frankie Swoonatra could make me 
miss Dentyne Chewing Gum! That nifty flavor 
really sends me 1 mean it really does. And the way Dentyne helps keep my teeth white, 1 wanta 
turn on the old smile all the time.
Dentyne Gum  Made Only By Adams
Come on, Johnny, mother promised us Dentyne 
Chewing Gum if we only sat through it once!*

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MAY 25, 1943
/4//over America... Smokers Report
HO CIBABETTE 
HAHBOVER
when you smoke PHILIP MORRIS!
- because Studue nCoouc is
DEFINITELY LESS 
IRRITATING
than any other leading brand!
1 fro PHI LIAll over America, smokers who have changed to philip 
morris tell us . . . they now enjoy a milder smoke, a 
fresher, cleaner smoke than theyve ever known before. 
Yes, theres a difference in philip morris that distinguishes 
it from all other leading brands!
If youre tired of cigarette hangoverthat stale, musty 
taste in your mouththat dry smoked-out feeling in your 
throat . . . join the millions who call for ewOSOetudooOFn
and remember: __^&itV4 -----
Of all leading cigarettes, PHILIP 
MORRISand only PHILIP MORRIS 
is recognized by eminent nose 
and throat specialists as definitely 
less irritating!
NO OTHER CIGARETTE CAN 
MAKE THAT STATEMENT! j
l0p-*nkn9TheadmRead What One of Americas iup Doctors Says About PHILIP MORRIS
"I have often suggested to patients wl smoke that they change to PHILIP MORRIS.*ave seen the results of such a changea 1 + c! have convinced me that PHII *'T' less irritating t!avwttes are leso
nds."one of a series of PROFESSIONAL STATEMENTS 
t EMINENT NOSE and THROAT SPECIALISTS.
............",J^
M0KR1S cifc brands.
tue otneFio
You II be a!ad TOMORROW^ you smoked Studue nCoouc TODAY !
Prof. Jones Resigns To Accept 
Hartford Art School Post
Clifford E. Jones, assistant pro
fessor in the painting and design 
department, will resign following 
the summer semester to accept a 
position at the Hartford Art School 
in Hartford, Connecticut.
Prof. Jones came to Carnegie in 
September, 1946, from the ChanceVought Aircraft Co. in Stratford, 
Conn., where he worked during 
the war.
Born in Kokomo, Indiana, Prof. 
Jones received his art education 
at the John Herron Art school in
Indianapolis. Following his grad
uation he taught at the University 
of Iowa and at John Herron. In 
1937 he was awarded a Prix de Rome and finished his studies 
abroad just before the outbreak 
of World War II.Prof. Jones has exhibited for 
the past two years in the Associ
ated Artists show. He was recent
ly elected to the Board of Direc
tors of that organization.At his new post in Hartford, he 
will be in charge of commercial 
art.
Bulletin Board
EE Dep't Banquet
Eta Kappa Nu and AIEE are 
sponsoring a joint banquet to 
honor the graduating class of the 
Electrical Engineering department. 
The affair will be held at the 
Church of the Redeemer, Forbes 
and Murray, on June 11 at 6:30 
p. m.All members of the electrical 
department are invited to attend. 
Admission price is $1.50, except to 
members of AIEE, for whom the 
price has been reduced to $1.25.
Orchestra Concert
The music department will pre
sent its last orchestra concert of 
the season in Carnegie Music Hal] 
on the evening of June 2, at 8:30.
Phi Mu Alpha
Carnegies Alpha Omega chap
ter of Phi Mu Alpha was among 
the eight chapters of the frater
nity represented at the East Cen
tral Province Song Festival held 
on Saturday, May 15, at Muskin
gum College, New Concord, Ohio. 
The two local members who at
tended were Fred Gentry and 
William Benswanger.
SAl Concert
Sigma Alpha Iota, womens mu
sic honorary, is presenting a for
mal concert of contemporary mu
sic on May 25 at 8:30 p. m. in the 
Exhibition Room of Fine Arts. 
Compositions by music students 
will be featured.
Kiltie Band
At an election meeting held 
Monday, May 17, the Kiltie Band 
elected officers for next year. Ed
ward Head was elected mana
ger, to be assisted by Robert Mc
Cain in the position of assistant 
manager. Charles Koester will be 
responsible for publicity, while 
Dean Streaton will fulfill the li
brarians duties. William Waller 
was elected secretary.
Citcom Election
[Continued from paae I] 
the same time were: Mabel Brit
tain, social chairman; Matthew 
Biss, athletic chairman; Stanley 
Nebash, membership chairman; 
and Richard Deckmann, publicity 
chairman.
for your trip HOME!
Those mighty-low Greyhound fares will give a welcome boost to your ailing year-end budget . . . and youll be sure to like Greyhounds comfort, convenience, dependability!
OneRoundOneRound
WayTripWayTrip
Philadelphia, Pa.$5.80$10.45Akron, O.2.204.00
New York, N. Y.7.2513.05Cleveland, O.2.204.00
Washington, D. C.5.359.65Youngstown, O.1.252.25
Baltimore, Md.5.359.65Detroit, Mich.4.858.75
Gettysburg, Pa.3.957.15Chicago, 111.7.3013.15
Johnstown, Pa.1.302.35St. Louis, Mo.9.6517.40
Scranton, Pa.5.6010.10Ft. Wayne, Ind.5.259.45
Altoona, Pa.1.953.55Wheeling, W. Va.1.402.55
Steubenville, O..951.65Cumberland. Md.2.754.95
Plus U.S. Tax
GREYHOUND TERMINAL
1010 LIBERTY AVENUE 
GR. 5700
