Carnegie Tartan
Val 36. Ho. 10OABNEGIEIKBTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBOKOH, PA.TUESDAY, NOVEMBEB 10r 1943
Cowards Trilogy 
Next For Dramats
"Hands Across the Sea/ "Still 
Life/ ..and Family Album/ three 
one-acfc plays from "Tonight at 
B: 30 by Noel Coward, will be pre
sented by the Drama Department in 
the Little Theatre of the Arts Build
ing from November 17 to November 
24.
The plays represent the balance 
of comedy, tragedy, and musical 
which mark the plays of this series. 
Hands ...Across the Sea" is a typ
ical sophisticated drawing - room 
comedy;, "Still Life" takes moments 
from the lives of a handful of peo
ple in a refreshment room of a rail
road station; and "Family Album" 
is a Victorian comedy with music.
Noel Qoward, playwright, writer, 
actor, composer, director, producer, 
singer, and dancer, first produc
ed and racted in "Tonight at 8:30 
seven seasons ago, innovating oneacts into! the very modem profes
sional New York stage. This is the 
first time his plays have been done 
at Tech; because his unique, glibseemingstyle is exceedingly diffi
cult to aft.
Students featured in the casts in
clude Jean Layton, AdelyneRoth7 
Priscilla7 Dodge, Jane Pursch, Rich
ard Rose, Michael Sivy, Natalie Ru
bin, Patftcia Walker, Ernest Motyl, 
Ethel Garson, Suzanne Maimin, Rita 
Sheinman, Rye Trier, Robert Parks, 
Barbara Bums, Jenny Lou Law, 
Muriel 3osoff, Cecele Strober, Rosanne Bearman, Margery Finkel, Bet
ty Bieberson, Alice Morgan, and 
Mitchel Agru6S.
Douglas McLean is directing.
Ticket^ for "Tonight at 8:30" are 
not yet available.
Thanksgiving Holiday
In accordance with the ac
tion taken by the C. L T. Ex
ecutive Board yesterday shor
ing, the Thanksgiving holiday 
has been extended to include 
Thursday, Friday, and Satur
day, November 26, 27, and 28.
Independents Nominate Chuck Jones
Note: The TARTAN originally in
tended to present a iketch of both (he rraiemityand Independent candidates for the office of Engineering Senate President. 
However, at the time of our deadline, the FYatemUy candidate had not been elected.
Charles, or "Chuck Jones, M. E., 
44, has recently come into the Car
negie spot-light as the hard-hitting 
center of our football team ... He 
says that hes glad the football sea
son is over because now he'll be able 
to give his blood to the Red Cross
 . . as if he hasn't already given 
enough!
Chuck is all out for the Propor
tional Representation system . . . 
He feels confident that the Inde
pendent groups are able to put up 
candidates who are worthy of any 
campus office ... He says, Out of 
our 1,000 men, we can And as many, 
if not quite a few more woithy of 
election than the fraternities can 
out of thefr 300 men.
Since activities are a good judge 
of a man's personality and abilities, 
here is Chucks imposing list: Foot
ball Team; sports a Delta Skull cap, 
Scabbard and Blade, Kiltie Band, 
Sully Clan, Claymore Clan, Freshfr -
Dr. A. B. Kinsolving Will Speak 
At Armistice Day Assembly
Earl Truxell To Play 
For I. S. Formal Sat. 
At Hotel William Penn
On Saturday, November 14, Intersorority Council will hold its an
nual formal dance in the Urban 
Room of the William Penn Hotel.
This dance is one of the few 
school affairs to which the girls in
vite the boys. Each of the eight 
sororities on campus must have an 
attendance equal-' to three-fourths 
its active membership. Since this 
will be one of the Jast formal dances 
for the duration, an especially 
large crowd is,- expected. Each 
sorority may invite alumni and 
guests to attend.: Freshmen may 
not be included in the guest list.
Following the example set by 
Student Council in banning cor
sages other than those made of war 
stamps at all-school dances, Intersorority:_Council has mled that the 
same plan will go iiito effect for tfte 
formal.
A twenty-five dollar bond is to be 
given as a door prize. Earl Truxell 
and his orchestra will provide the 
music.
Before the dance which starts at
9 odobk, Intersorority Council and 
their guests will attend the annual 
dinner.
Chaperons for the dance are Mrs. 
Jessie Y. Yon, Mr. and Mrs. War
den, Mr. and Mrs. Murphy and the 
sponsors of the sororities.
Dr. Arthur B. Kinsolving, II
man Orientation Committee, Alpha 
Phi Omega, Mens Dorm Council 
and former Scimitar. Whew! Here 
is a fellow who not only keeps up 
a pretty substantial factor over in 
Industries and Machinery Hall, but 
goes in for every activity on campus 
from the Football Team to the C. D. 
Fireman Training Course!
At ^JeaU
Student Escapes Air 
Raids and Gestapo
By Lonls Saul 
When the Germans occupied the 
Suderitenjan in February, 1938~ 
Paul Peter Gibian, now a fresh
man Aeronautical Engineer, was 
living with his parents and two 
brothers in Prague. Because his 
father was Jewish, and was at that 
time manufacturing American bus
iness machines contrary to German 
ruling, the family thought it best to 
move to England, which was then 
still at peace. After finally secur
ing a permit from the Gestapo, the 
Gibians escaped through Italy to 
London.
There the three brothers entered 
St. Edmunds College, a boarding 
school in Ware, England, corres
ponding to an advanced high, school. 
In September, 1939, hostilities broke 
out between England and Germany; 
and Paul was caught in the midst 
of a nation at war. During the next 
year he survived over 150 air raids 
with bombs dropping as near as 
fifty feet away.
America seemed to be the only 
haven of peace left, and in the fail 
of 1940, the Gibian family secured 
passage on the S. S. Baltrover sail
ing for the United States. To quote 
Paul, "Aside from a game of tag 
with a German submarine, the voy
age across was unsuccessful.
After living in New York for 
three months Paul and his family 
settled in Pittsburgh where he en
tered Central Catholic High School. 
Last August, Paul entered Tech, at 
the age of seventeen, to. study Aero
nautical Engineering.
When asked for his reactions to 
America, Paul said, "Aside from the 
motor cars and soda fountains, life 
is pretty international. However, I 
like America and regardless of the 
turn th.e War may take, I shall stay 
here.
Dr. Arthur B. Kinsolving II, rec
tor of the Calvary Protestant Epis
copal Church, will be the guest 
speaker at todays annual R. O. T. C. 
Armistice Day assembly, to be held 
at 11:30 A. M. in the Mens Gymna
sium. His talk on What Price Free
dom will deal with the varying 
ideas concerning the world after the 
wan
Dr. Kinsolving, the son of a mis
sionary to Southern Brazil,, lived 
there till 1906, when he returned to 
the United States with his family. 
From 1914 to 1917, he attended the 
University of Virginia, where he 
majored in Philosophy and English..
He was commissioned a first lieu
tenant in the United States Army 
in 1918, and was awarded the 
French Croix de Guerre.
By presidential appointment he 
was made Chaplain of the United 
States Military Academy at West 
Point from 1926 to 1930, and in 1930 
was reappointed. In 1939 he ac
cepted the rectorship of the Calvary 
Episcopal Church in Pittsburgh.
The honorary degree of Doctor of 
Divinity was conferred upon him in 
1937 by New York University.
-dasseswilH= 
today, in order that the R. O. T. G. 
and Kiltie band may have time to 
meet around the Senior Fence at 
11:20. Thiey will then march in 
formation to the Mens Gymnasium.
The program, presided over by 
President Doherty, will begin with 
the play of the Star Spangled 
Banner by the Kiltie Band. "The 
Army Air Corps, sung by the 
Mens Glee Club, will be followed 
by Dr. Kinsolvings address.
Tech Womens Choir To Sing 
With Pittsburgh Symphony
Dr. Fritz Reiner, conductor of the 
Pittsburgh Symphony, has invited 
the Womens Chorus of the Music 
Department to participate in his 
Symphony concerts at the Syria 
Mosque this Friday night and Sun
day afternoon. The number to be 
performed by the students is the 
Third Debussy Nocturne, Sirenes, 
which calls for womens voices. This 
occasion marks the first time that 
the Carnegie Tech Chorus has had 
an opportunity to sing with a pro
fessional organization.
In previous concerts of Beethov
ens Missa Solemnis and Mahler's 
.Second Symphony, the music group 
was heard and favorably comment
ed upon by Dr. Reiner.
Election Notice
The elections for president and 
vice-president of Engineering Sen
ate will be held Tuesday, Novem
ber 17 between, 11:30 and 12:30. 
Petitions may. be obtained in the 
Student Council Office and are due 
in this office on or before Friday, 
November 13. All students of the 
engineering school are entitled to 
vote.

---------------------------------------------------

THB OAMWaa TAIM
V3J> p
TOMDAT. HOTiyi"
*Jks Zdiiof. AnmcUai*-------------------------
Apropos of Nothing
Elections for engineering senate will be held one week from today. A 
president and vice-president will be elected to this atrophied organization, 
who will then take up their duties on student council. Whether a fra
ternity or an independent man gets in is not too important, for the prob
lems that arise are not factional in any way. Reason for this is that stu
dent council is only a glorified clearing house for social events. Year after 
year the TARTAN has campaigned for the students to vote and show 
their democratic spirit, but is it really that important to vote for your 
choice for dance manager? Will the independents guarantee better dances 
tVian the fraternity men or vice-versa?
The war on all the fronts is going well for the Allied powers, and if 
we win there will be a vast upswing of democratic thinking. All organiza
tions and institutions will be democratized to give America a firmer basis 
for her tradition. Possibly this spirit will stretch out into the field of ed
ucation, and eventually .it may reach Tech. This would mean greater co
operation between administration, faculty, and student body. Committees 
would be set up to work out the problems of the three groups that affect all 
three or any two, and the logical organization to represent the students 
would be their council. Problems of curricula, activities, and discipline, 
are not those that one group can settle arbitrarily, but should be regulated 
by all three. The units are inseparable in that they cannot exist without 
each other and since they must harmonize, why not have a tripartite 
organization to work out the problems to the best interests of all. The 
teachers are holding a meeting to discuss the problems they face in getting 
their material across to a class. Isnt the discussion fruitless unless a stu
dent is there to give them the reaction of the classes, and wouldnt the ma
jority of good suggestions come from the students? Yet the teachers, stu
dents, and administration work toward their solutions alone, struggle to 
keep the business going, and lag in method when the obvious thing to do 
would be to integrate.
This is why the students should vote. Some day the time will come 
when the administration will say come and take a hand in deciding your 
business. But of course that will never happen until you know your busi
ness. So if bigger and better dances don't interest you, dont vote; and if 
the independents are nice guys and so are the fraternities, dont vote; but 
if you are interested in getting a student council that is progressive, that 
is democratic, and that will eventually enter into the machinery of a uni
versity, then, brother, haul out your athletic card next Tuesday, go to the 
polls and *nairg an X.
Apropos of Something
Democracy at Tech seems to have struck a snag. The majority of 
campus leaders have agreed that proportional representation would be a 
distinct improvement over our present mode of election, but the problem is 
in getting it into the student council constitution. This requires a two thirds 
vote of a student assembly; and considering how few people know of P. R.> 
it couldnt go over. In the near future P. R. will be brought to the student 
body for a vote, and we suggest that the students investigate the matter to 
vote wisely on the subject. Any organization that wishes to have P. R. ex
plained to.it can have an authority on the subject attend its meeting by get
ting in touch with the editor.
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the staff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are, not to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body is the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
FHONE BTFLOffZE SPHONE SCHENLEF 4
' National Advertising Service, Inc.
Val 36.Ho10 O
After Office Hours Call
Editor-In-Chief.........................SC. 9070
Business Manager........................SC. 9855
Advertising Manager...............BH. 4759
EalereS No mwbS<1im muur ib i PaMUlud weeklr da ria r i
Co-JJianofling Editors...............................................*...........*............................Jack ShoreWalter Haller
Co-Copy Editors.....................................................................................Stanley A. Rosecrans
Jeanne King
Staff Secretary '.....................................................................................................Pat ElmanSports Editor. ........ ............. ...............................................................Don WatkinsPersonnel Manager.................................................................,.........,. .Melvin H. SnyderAdvertising Manager.....................................................................................Wilbur ThorjuuCirculation Manager.........................................................................................Irving PalefskyStaff Artist................................................ .........................................................Elliott TweryStaff Photographer...........................................................................................Edward Munyer
Business Staff: Jerry Jacobi, Merry Rosecrans, Martha Wagman, i>. Spangler.
Junior Editors: Helena Aronson, Doreen Barry, Walt Darby, Gerry Edelson, T. J. Harmony, Dave Neuss, Louise Saul, Elaine Levin, Ed Goldstein.
Reporters: Natalie Nathan, Lucille Schulberg, Geri Racusin, Mart Cohn, Ed Croop, 
Aron Beck, Norma Caplan, Sidney Gerhardt, Allen P. Golden, Adeline Herlick, 
Marty Jacobs, Bill Kolb, Iris KtnaU, Lois Marks, Jeanne Norris, Lola Patton, 
Rhea Rothman, Dorothy Rutkin, Alen Schneider, Alice Softs, Bob GWetpie.
On the Lighter Sideky Art North
Every tme I get in there to work on it, the phone rings I
Kick 9*t 04 f/h
Anything Goes" In Scrap 
Drive To Begin Soon
Now that you have made that col
lection of useless compacts, lipstick 
cases, key chains, and keys, Mu Al
pha Gamma is going to give you a 
chance to get rid of all 'this scrap.
Boxes in which you can deposit 
your contributions will be placed 
in the main halls of Arts, Margaret 
Morrison, Administration, and Ma
chinery Hall. Any kind of scrap 
is welcomed: tarnished or broken 
junk jewelry, tinfoil, tobacco and 
cigarettes cans, metal needles, etc. 
The sorority will not receive any 
remuneration when the scrap is 
turned in, so come on:
Donate your junk to junk the 
axis!
Larry Coulter Missing 
In Battle of Solpmons
Larry Coulter, a 1940: graduate of 
the Music Department and an En
sign in the United States Naval Re
serve-Air Corps, is repotted missing 
in ihe Solomon Islands. L^rry was a 
wonderful musician who could play 
well a variety of instrumentspi
ano, organ, trumpet dnd tympani 
arrange compositions, and sing. 
After taking his B. A degree at 
Tech, he taught school at Point 
Marion Pennsylvania, for one year; 
He resigned from this position, how
ever, to enter the Naval Air Corps.
After his preliminary training 
was received in Jacksonville, Flofida, he was assigned as a bomber 
pilot to duty in the South Pacific, 
Now the government has notified 
his parents in Monongahela that 
their son is missing.
Seniors  Notice
ORDER 
CLASS DEGREE RINGS 
JIT OMCE
Rings ordered on or before Friday, Novemker 27,1942, will be ready for delivery before 
Commencement, December 20, 1942.
ALUMNI OFFICE THE UNION
010121015353215301010153530101215353012153219453530101532121019801530101
530121535321015321530101212121535353392121012121212101535353940121012153

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 10,10*2TOE OABNBOn TARTAN
one of the boys
. . . John Horth
Among the seniors to graduate 
in December will be John Horth, 
who really will be missed by the 
various honoraries and activities in 
which he participated.
When the dormitories had their 
cheering section at the football 
games last 'year, John Horth was , 
their cheerleader. However, cheerleading has been only a minor 
among Johnnys many activities, 
for he is Dorm Council President, 
freshman advisor in Welch Hall, 
and a member of the now-inactive 
debate team. At present, the rst 
two of these activities take up most 
of his time, for the business of being 
freshman advisor is not the soft job 
it may sound. As president'of Dorm 
Council, Johnny has won many 
friends and really has tried to im
prove the dorm system.
Because Johnny manages to pull 
down good grades, and because he 
is very active, he has joined, ve 
honoraries. He is president of Pi 
Tau Sigma, a member of Claymore 
Clan, Scabbard and Blade, Phi Kap
pa Phi, and Tau Beta Pi.
Johnny took the primary and sec
ondary CAA courses, and has
MiUtasuf, Becnetl
Col. Bass, has been advised that 
enlistment in the Enlisted Reserve 
Corps, Electronics Learning Group, 
previously restricted to Juniors and 
Seniors in Electrical Engineering or 
Electronic Physics, is now open to 
Juniors and Seniors in other depart
ments if they are scheduled to take 
a concentration of courses in the 
eld of Electronics. An outline of 
approved courses in Electronics has 
been prepared under the sponsor
ship of the United States Office of 
Education. This list of courses is 
available to interested individuals. 
No assurance, however, can be 
given at this time that any student 
participating in this plan will be 
originally appointed upon gradua
tion.
amassed about 90 flying hours to his 
credit. Flying constitutes his one 
and only hobby.
His principal interest right now, 
however, is in his fiancee, Judy 
Clark. Their engagement was an
nounced at the Military Ball on Oc
tober 17.
--------ON THE RECORD--------
Today
12:30, Room 157, Arts, Mr. Charles 
A. H. Pearson will supervise - this 
phonograph recital:
Don Quixote........................Strauss
Thursday 
12:30, Room 157, Arts, Dr. ,Freder
ick Dorian will be in charge of a 
Beethoven program.
THE
PLACE TO EAT
OAKLAND
BILL'S LUNCH ROOM
3611 Forbes Street
Records Donated 
For Service Men
Students and faculty-members of 
Carnegie Tech have been asked to 
sponsor an Armed Forces Master 
Records library of music. A. F. M. 
R.,\ Inc., is a national organization 
which has dedicated itself to the 
job of raising libraries of classical 
and semi-classical recordings for 
men in the service who do not want 
to listen to jazz music continuously.
The plan is to obtain 500 library 
units of 100 records of master music 
and to send such units to camps here 
and overseas. Ships, too, will receive 
records. Each library is one step 
further towards the goal implied in 
Music Makes Morale.
Many Well-known musicians in
cluding Arturo Toscanini, Gladys 
Swarthout, Frank Black Lyn Mur
ray and the Hit Paraders? Fred War
ing, Andre Kostelanetz, and the 
NBC Symphony Orchestra as well 
as many non-musicians have al
ready contributed. Now, Tech, too, 
has an opportunity to give a music 
library in the name of the school to 
a camp of its selection.
Approximately one hundred rec
ords make up a library, and the 
wolesale cost is $75.00. Each stu
dent and faculty member, there
fore, is asked to contribute a nickel 
or more to the cause. Representa
tives of different organizations on 
campus will solicit funds. Also, 
two boxes for Voluntary contribu
tions will be available beginning to
day. One will be placed in the Reg
istrars office, Administration,: and 
the other ~ianll be in th'e Music Of
fice, Room 153, Arts.
Tau Beta Pi Honors 
Eleven New Pledges 
At Carnegie Union
Tau Beta Fl, engineering honor-; 
ary, will formally initiate-, eleven 
new pledges, Friday, November 13, 
in tbe Union. They are: William 
Carter, Harold Schwemler, Roger 
Loper, Leslie Frost, Howard. Etzel, 
James Rice, Ray Warner, Charles 
Greening; Marvin Goldberger, andHugh Smith. v
The purpose of the organization 
is to confer honor upon those junior 
engineers who are superior In 
scholarship and outstanding for gen
eral interest in the school. During 
the beginning of the fall semester. 
Tau Beta Pi also selects three honor 
juniors from the upper tenth of the 
class. These men are, in the opinion 
of the members of the organization, 
the most outstanding students. -The 
three men honored this fall were 
Harold Dixon, De Witt Lyon, and 
John Lindberg.
Following the formal initiation on 
the thirteenth an informal dinner 
will be held on campus. The senior 
members of Tau Beta Pi are plan* 
ning a formal banquet for their new 
pledges on the twenty-fifth of No
vember. Usually the initiation cer
emony is held later in the year, but 
because of the expedited program it 
was necessary to call the new mem
bers before graduation.
C. S. EDMAN
PRIN T ft R
470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
The Cokes in
Good/iKraffmg Comes Easier
.... to the nan who uses MICftOTOMIC 
"VAN DYKE Drawing Pencils with their 
HI-DENSmr LEAD....For school work they 
have the notable advantage of drawing lines 
that ore easy to erase, and ore more gener
ally smudge proof.... Al your supply store.
EBERHARD FABER
JZttdttsfup IB visa wainsa UATcaiAi* tiaec iaa
HISTORY IS ON THE MARCH
ARE YOU KEEPING UP?
A COMPLETE COURSE 
IN CURRENT EVENTS IS ON OUR BOOK SHELVES 
Required Reading:
THEY WERE EXPENDABLEW. L. White
THE TRUTH ABOUT SOVIET RUBSIAS. and B. Webb
SABOTAGESayers and Kafr"
THE GREAT OFFENSIVEMax Werner 
THE SEVENTH GROSSAnna Seghen
CONTEMPORARY BOOKS
That's Hie happy greeting heard today when a 
new supply of Coke arrives at a coaler. Folks 
wait for it... wait because the only thing like 
Coca-Cola is Coca-Cola itself. Customers smile 
and start moving up to pause and be refreshed. 
"There** a cheerful spirit about this way of 
accepting wartime restrictions. Morale is high.
440 WOOD STREETATlaulic 1777

---------------------------------------------------

4thk , wn maiTOMBAT, OTHBB 10.1W
. , Council Minutes . . .Off The Cuff 0nThc ^P1*  rn r juin.!! yrfu* JavAV Tiff PA I
Tlu mrrfiin waaIled.to-<irder at 7:15 
P M. Absent: Mess, Emberg, Fitzgerald,
' wd Spitriert -v
COMMITTEE REPORTS 
Huet Comiruttee
MxvShewxtz .moved f- the approval of 
the -budget for tbe 1943 Thistle.
MrrShewiteid that he hart spoki to 
the.^usines Manago* of the Tartan and 
that bethinks it bed -that we drop the 
matferof the increase in the Trtan bud.ggkuuntil afta* the publication of the 
' i'Day issue ABNthe 24th of NoMr. Shewitz read a letter from the In-1 Relations Club. asHng fax an
* of $25 to be used for send- TTvp o delegale to a cozxvsition on De.ceiCber 5. Mr. Van Arsdell asked Mr. 
Shwitz .to s^t a budget from this or
ci-and to report to Council nest
" SoaaL Committee
Mr." Bsache* moved that, the Cwens arm 'Scimitars be allowed to hold their 
tea/dahce an Friday. Novonber 13, in the 
  Bsoan of the Fine Arts
Pczrits 'and Keys Committee'Mr:;-TjfWiPa4 read a list of organisiions petitioning for keys: Tri-Publicatans, WAA, Scottie, Fnshmap Oriea- tionc fVimiiiUMJ^ Technical, Kfltie Band, 
Tarlali- He moved for the approval of
Mr. .Schote expteined that all oisani- zations- which receive keys must pay for 
those ifays out of their own budgets. 
Special  CommitteeMiss Zonge reported that plans have 
beep jgnhulated for Tech's observance ofTrri-gT-riqtirTrval "Day. Ml Aroii-gfir TytbTTvv^-thqt on thirt day, November 
17, there will be an  -intfrrsive drive to 
sell .war- anus, to .get blood donations, 
and? to add to/the arop ^collection.
Micc Zonge moved that Student Coun
cil approve the idea of observing Inter
national Students' Day and give its -sup
port to the project Motion carried.
Mr. Van Arsdell asked Mr. Boyce to help E3GoI Zonge and Mi- Aronson with 
their work on these plans.
Permanent Decorations Committee
Mr. Reisaeher asked whether or not the Dorm Council dance scheduled for Novembs* 7 is an all-school dance. Student Council decided that it was, since it KT 
open to the public, and that therefore the 
Dorm Council should be charged the full rate for the decorations.
OLD BUSINESS 
Mr. Van Arsdell pointed out that there 
is an all-school election scheduled for No
vember 24, which is Carnegie Day. He 
asked Mr. Beatty to look into the matter 
of setting another date for this election.
Mr. McDonald read a report from the 
committee appointed last week to inves
tigate the proportional representation 
plan. The committee feels that it will 
give proportional representation to Stu
dent Council, but that it will not guaran
tee a better form of student government. 
No definite recommendation was made to 
Council. Mr. Bluestein conducted a sam
ple election and explained the workings of the plan to Council
Mr. Schatz moved that Council con
tribute $50 to the United War Fund. Motion carried.
Mr. McDonald suggested another possi
ble plan for representation. It is similar 
to the other .plan in that the representative are elected at large from the col
leges. His suggestion assumes that there 
are two major factions on the campus. 
Mr. Shewitz suggested that Mr. McDon
ald work farther on his plan, considering the recQgirosKiatioBs made by Council, 
and report to later.Adjournment
Respectfully submitted,
LUCILLE ORR,
{*j
Shirt Problem?
Heres a <jznck ftintiow to any kirt problem  
Arrow Whites, the shirts for any ocsseioa. There's 
die weft-known Arrow threesome: the Hitt, Tramp, 
and Dart. Theres the- Arrow Soaaez with the wide* 
epread collar (also in fancy patterns), and there* 
that ioBg*tios winner, the Arrow Gordon Oxford 
hoth with regular collar riie button-down 
collar. $2.25 up.
See your Arrow dealer today for some Arrow whites, 
and dont forget to get eozne of those eye-filling, 
wrink1eredfitant Arrow ties. Theyre tops! $1 up.
_____________
ARROW SHIRTS
LEONARDS MENS SHOP
CAMPUS HEADQUABTS&8 
ARROW PRODUCTS
Ooner forbH at Atwood
The old adage of all work, etc., 
doesnt hold in the Tartan office, for 
were neither dull, (we hope) nor 
do we work all the time; next Fri
day evening Louisa Saul is throw
ing a party for the staff after our 
babys been put to sleep. Honor 
guests will be Jack Shore and Bar
bara Kramer, former Tartan News 
Edits?, recently announced
their sagagEmeaxt.
And speaking of fan, the victims 
in McGill Hall would like to know 
who is putting dead rabbits in their 
beds. As a warning to any future 
connivers, the boys gagged and tied 
Dick Bundy and dumped him on the 
porch of Oak Hall at one oclock in 
the morning, where he froze pa
tiently -until some dorm girls crept 
out and set him free.
Intersarority Council must have 
charm or Interfratemity Council 
must have money, or there must be 
a combination of both somewhere, 
for the Interfratemity boys are tak
ing the girls to the Nixon theater 
tomorrow night to see Lady in the 
Dark.
*lUaiU Pici.
Sunday, November 15 
2:00 Student Council.
2:15 Interfratemity Council.
2:30 Tau Beta PL '
2:45 Theta Tau.
3:00 Scabbard and Blade.
3:15 Interhonorary Council.
3:30 Mens Christian Association. 
3:45 Omicron Delta Kappa.
4:00 Regimental Officers.
4:15 C. I. T. War Committee.
 BE THE BEGINNING A LONS AMO USEFUL 
ASSOCIATION
MELLON 
NATIONAL BANK
Leave-all notices Jar ON THE CAMPUS in Teeh P. O. Box <09 by Friday noon of 
the week bejore publication.- 
Cwen-Soimit&r Tea Daaoe: 
Communique No. 31
We were severely chastised when we 
erroneously reported that the CtrenScimitar Tea Dance was to be held last 
Tuesday afternoon. But this time, dear 
diuUm, its true! Something new has been added, for it will be held thic Friday 
afternoon at 4:30 in the Exhibition Room 
of Fine Arts Building. Just a little change 
ought to be good.
Household Ec. Club Victory Dinner
The gals of the Household Ee. Club over 
in Maggy Murph are gonna have a Vic
tory Dinner on Nov. 12, at 6 P. M. in the 
Union. Dr. Chworowsky of the Tech 
War Committee and Miss Helen Leavy of 
the O.C.D. will be guests. Dont look 
now. but the fee will be une dani-dollar. 
Want Ads
Confidentially, we hear that applica
tions for second semester scholarships are 
now available at the Student Employ
ment Office, Room 246 of Industries Rail. 
They must be returned by December ltt. 
UndergT&d Math Club
Tech's Undergraduate Mathematics Club 
plans its second meeting of the year for 
Friday, Nov. 13, at 3:30 P. M. in Room 
135-C of Industries HeSL Edward L. 
Fireman, Senior Math stude, will speak on 
Non-Euciidean Geometry." All interest
ed studes and faculty members are cor
dially invited.
Attention, Alpha Phi Omega
Kappa Chapter of Alpha Phi Omega, 
national Boy Scout Honorary, will hold a 
dinner meeting this Thursday evening at 
5:30 oclock in the Faculty Dining Room. 
Pres. Phil Britneil adw all pledges anrf 
actives to attend.
Tech Discusaion Group
Tech's Discussion Group, the people 
who discuss everything from national 
politics to Student Representation on 
Campus (Tartan, Oct. 24!) will hold their 
regular Tuesday morning meeting today, 
at 12:30, in Room 229-C of Industries Hall. 
They're still in the election rui, for to
days discussion, which will be led. by 
Allen Perlis. will be on 'The Depart
mental Plan of Elections.Hobo Party
The Lutheran Student Association comes 
through with plans (or an Intercollege 
Hobo Party. It will be held at The Lit
tle Church Around the Comer (Pitt Ca
thedral of framing to the frosh) this 
Friday afternoon at 5:30 in Room 126. 
Supper, singing, and, it says right here, 
fetkdancing, all fo iohty caits (40c!).
HOTEL WEBSTER 
HALL
Av&ilabl For
PRIVATE PARTIES 
BANQUETS 
SWIMMING PARTIES
Duty 
Calls
A working, sacrificing, fighting America must keep morally and 
physically fitmentally alert. If you are one of the 16 million Amer> 
ican men and women for whom Bowling provides a regular 6timulat> 
ing recreation, you are co-operating with Uncle Sams health program. 
Keeping yourself physically and mentally alert is an important duty 
not to be neglected. Bowl a few lines each weekat the beautiful
MURRAY-BEACON ALLEYS
JAckum MM 181 KUBKAT ATOTOZ

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, KOVEMBm 10,1942THE OABKIgg TAHTA
Grid Results Best In Recent Years, 
Team Shows Rapid Improvement
By Don Watkins,
With the close of the current foot* 
ball season comes the realization of 
the. fact that the work performed 
by this years team was far superior 
to that of any recent years.
Seasons Record
Tech's record, while not of a sen
sational nature,, it is worthy of 
prkise. The final tallies show the 
Tartans with a .500 average. This 
is good in view of the past few sea
sons, when a victory of any sort 
was good cau$e for riotous celebra
tion.
The Geneva game was very dis
appointing to those of us who ex
pected something better out of this 
years squad. From more recent 
observances of the team, however, 
it is evident that the contest with 
the Covenanters was an example 
of first game jitters.
Westminster showed the Skibo 
fans that they could expect some 
%ood ball playing from their team 
this year. The Case game proved 
this point, for, despite a defeat from 
the Rough Riders, the Tartans gave 
a good account of themselves
. Sports Writer
against the admittedly superior 
team. /
Grove City was no match for the 
Skibos, of course, but the odds were 
against them in the Buffalo game. 
The Pitt conflict was one of the best 
games from the point of view of 
the Tartans. The power shown at 
various stages of this gariie was 
evidence of the improvement made 
in this years team.
New Intramural Sport
Inaugurating a new intramural 
sport, the Intramural Managers 
Club is sponsoring competition over 
the obstacle course between various 
campus organizations. The compe
tition is being run off on Monday, 
Wednesday, and Friday of this week 
at 4:30 P. M. with managers from 
each organization serving as 
referees.
Each team is composed of five 
men, whose time over the course 
will be averaged, giving the teams 
score. The winner will be the team 
with the lowest time recorded.
Game With Slippery Rock 
Winds Up Soccer Season
Last Saturday the Carnegie Tech 
-soccer team wound up the season 
with a 0-1. loss to Slippery Rock. 
The Teachers got their one* score 
in the fist part of the fourth quar
ter. Outstanding players for Slip
pery Rock were the two fullbacks, 
whos good playing halted several 
Tartan attempts to score. The op
posing team had good, teamwork, 
and their passing tactics proved to 
be of good avail. The Tech booters 
played a very good game, but there 
was a marked lack of teamwork.
A few of our more outstanding 
players of the season are: in the for
ward lineNick Yaru, sophomore, 
Schwartz and Chris Smith, both 
seniors; in the backfield  Nelson 
Crooks, senior, and Dick Lindgren, 
and Fritz, both sophomores. Jack 
Sherwood has proved to be an ex
cellent goalie throughout the sea
son, Saturdays game being no ex
ception. '
The record for the season is one 
game won and four lost. This is not 
good, but is a slight improvement 
over last year when we didn't win 
any at all. A.
Victorious Harriers 
Complete Season
To complete the best Cross-Coun
try season in the last few years, the 
Tech Harriers outran Geneva to winby the decisive score of 19-36. -The 
Geneva mot 'was the third win of 
the .season for the Tartans who 
downed Westminster and Bethany 
to win a mythical District "Cham
pionship. ............x . .. .. :
Bill Beamer took first place for 
Tech and set a new record for the 
College Hill course at Geneva. Don 
Crawford, star Geneva freshman, 
finished ten seconds behind Beamer 
to place second. Tech made a clean 
sweep of the next six places. Tech 
freshman, Fred Kelsey ran a good 
race and copped third place. Ben 
Puchaski, John Greene, Paul Rotzler, and Nick Teresi, all of Tech fin
ished among the first ten runners. 
The record breaking time for the 
five mile College Hill route "was 25 
minutes and 38 seconds.
This year the freshmen aided the 
varsity in winning the me4ts. In 
fact the freshmen this year will 
. have to fill the places vacated by
 -their three graduating team mates.
IN THE BOMBER COMMAND
they say: ^ ^
U1FFHICL for the bombardiers place -.V
"GREENHOUSE* for planes transparent nose 
"ROGER" for okay or all right 
"CAMEL* for the Army mans favorite cigarette
With men in the Army, Navy, Marines, and Coast Guard, the 
favorite cigarette is Camel. (Based on actual sales records 
in Pose Exchanges and Canteens.)
fgggn
Hfe
I B.;.fic7Wlmt>ue*Cesn
The T-Zone'
where cigarettes 
are judged ^
The "T-ZONITaste and Throat-is the pcpv* 
ug ground for cigarette*. Only your taste and 
throat can decide which cigarette tastes best to 
you... and how it affects your throat For your 
taste and throat an absolutely individual to you. Based on the experience of millions of 
imoker*, we believe Camels will suit your 
"T-ZONI" to  "T." Prove it for youiaelft
vur Tha
STRICTLY CAMELS 
WITH ME. THAT 
RICH, FULL FLAVOR 
ALWAVS TASTES GREAT. 
AND THEY'RE 
MILDER ALL 
WAV'S
m
CAMEL
COSTLIER TOBACCOS

---------------------------------------------------

niMMHiiMMirTPEBDAY, NOVmBXK le, 1M3kc Camele
Nov. 14 Brings Ches Wallers 
Here For All-College Dance
. . .Something really super is in the 
offing Saturday night, worthy even 
at a gM's last pair of nylonsthe 
much postponed, long awaited first 
dance of the fall season. Adept 
'reminscent or up-to-the-minute 
'dance music is Ches Walters and 
his band, noted for his sweet 
treatment of the blues. His rhythm 
is familiar to the Pittsburgh campuses, for he lias played at Pitt, Duquesne, P. C. W., and Mt. Mercy 
dances. Featured with the band is 
group" singing by orchestra mem
bers which forms a smooth accom
paniment to the -really mellow sax 
section. Incidentally, his sax ar
rangements have an individual 
ioiich -in that a tenor lead is featur
ed rather than an alto.
-\A novel theme in decoration, yet 
cme -iii keeping with the fall season, 
has been, planned for-Thistle HalL 
Especially exciting isrthe-new -light
ing gffpct and the unbelievablea 
completely remodeled overhauled 
crystal "balD
' Though Council Officers have 
beenworkmg for weeks on plans for 
thft-affair,, thereis still much, much 
-itfbcre lz> be dene; Everyune, new 
stedents in partcufar.is urged to 
corns and help out. - Points toward 
an msignm award can be earned by 
heipmg out at the work periods 
Saturday afterjioon before the 
. da.nce on the. 14th, the evening of 
tfce dflpce, and the nleawiip period 
on Sunday following the dance. 
r'Soi; those who like cokes and 
dhatter along with their nig cutting, 
the glarfr Gat Room will be open. 
Since it is the initial All College 
Dance combining Arts, Engineering, 
and Industries, this is a good op
portunity tomeet students from the 
other schools and 1^ to see old 
friends; Admisison for students is 
by registration card, or $1.10 per 
coupie ibr outsiders.
Social Committee To 
Organize This Week 
Any student interested in becom
ing a member of the Evening School 
Scdal Committee is requested to rgpoti to the Carnegie Union Wed
nesday evening, November 11th, for 
an organization mggting- Membership is open to any evening student, 
including girls. By serving on the 
committee Insignia award points 
can be earned. Please report 
pirompfcly at ten-thirty P. M. in. Con
ference Boom A, second floor of 
the-Carnegie Union.
Museum Now Displays 
Miniature Collection
An interest in early American 
furniture and the hobby of collect
ing miniatures started Mrs. James 
Ward Thome, a wealthy Chicago 
society woman, on her collection of 
miniature rooms which are now on 
exhibit at the Carnegie Museum. 
This fascinating collection consists 
of. thirty-seven American rooms, 
dating from 1650 to 1942; they are 
exact replicas of homes typical of 
their time.
The rooms range from an eight
eenth century tavern, complete with 
bars and bottles, and a luxurious 
Georgia planters home to a com
pletely modem 1942 penthouse with 
translucent plastic chairs, authentic 
surrealistic miniature on the walls, 
and : the San Francisco skyline 
which, can be seen through the 
French doors.
These miniatures rooms, one of 
the most popular exhibits ever pre
sented, wifi be shown on the sec
ond floor of the Museum until De
cember 2nd. Mrs. Thorne and six
teen craftsmen completed the rooms 
in three yeas; Mrs. Thorne herself
made the drapgft and mga, antj did
all the research required to make 
them perfect Each room, abso
lutely authentic in all detail and 
complete with background and 
scenery, is valued at $3,000.
*/c *7Jte CdUtvi
You know Industries is just as 
important a part of Evening School 
as Engineering or Fine Arts, and 
yet, they are without an officer to 
represent them in Student Council. 
This is a deplorable situation. Why 
isnt something done about it?
,1. know just as well as you the 
qualifications a student must-have 
to become an officer. I also know 
that, you havent -found anyone in 
Industries with these qualifications, 
but there are- many good men over 
here who have been coming to Tech 
for four or five years and the only 
qualiiication they lack is the posses
sion .of an .activities key. Now why 
dont you let the bars down and 
have a couple of these fellows be
come officers and give us boys in 
Industries an equal representation 
in Student Council.
._____________ (Signed) P. .B.
Now it can be toldthe heaviest 
single article handed into the scrap 
drive the other week was Mary Joe 
Webers charm bracelet . . . You 
fellows who park around Margaret 
Morrison on Tuesday and Wednes
day evenings better watch your 
fenders  reason  Mary Hensler is 
driving her car to school now and 
take it from me, Ive seen her try 
to park . . . Things are popping for 
the dance this weekend  Come 
early, bring your crowd, and have a 
super-marvelous time . . . You 
remember that handsome gigolo 
from EngineeringTom Irvine de
serted Carnegie for Penn State and 
guess whatthey made him a fresh
manafter his working so hard for 
two semesters . . . Ed Williams has 
dated up a really glamor-puss 
blonde for the big shindig on the 
14th . . . The latest recruit for 
Uncle Sams Army is Frank Carroll 
he knows we all wish him the best 
luck and feel sure he is clever 
enough to dodge KP . . . Whos 
mad and I am gladbut dont know 
how to please himtoo bad certain 
people cant take a little honest crit
icism without getting sore . . . 
Have you heard the latest Moron 
jokethe girl who cut off a finger 
so she could write shorthandwe 
know, you heard that one before 
. . . Miss Gebhart, the alluring 
Maggie Murph student, would be an 
asset to any office .
The Carnegie Plaid
Page edited by Evening School Stu
dents of Carnegie Institute of Technology. 
All views or opinions expressed in edi
torial column are not necessarily endorsed 
by the Editorial Board of the Day School 
staff.Editor 
Nancy E. Lewis 
Associate Editor of Engineering 
Robert C. King 
Associate Editor of Fine Arts 
Marlon Fropt 
Staff
June Apel S. W. Marcinizyn
John Castellano D. Pettigrew, Jr.
Albert Kerstukos Pearl Pettola
Edward A. Macha Joseph M. Rymar
Robert Poznanski Robert Lenigan
James Flaherty Albert Flanders
Mary Hensler Mary Jo Weber
Council Officers 
Named At Meeting
The students to serve as officers 
of Student Council are selected from 
representatives of each of the four 
Colleges of Carnegie Tech. Conse
quently, at a meeting of the Coun
cil held in Carnegie Union on Sun
day, November 1, the following of
ficers were appointed by the Presi
dent, Steven W. Marcinizyn, for the 
ensuing year; Vice President, Rob
ert AungstTreasurer, Ed Macha 
Secretary, Albert Kerstukos and as 
Social Chairman, Albert Flanders.
\mmmm m novis mu zom
*'p&tCea#-
mmmeamonta ron samt n
Lei's go to
ISLY'S
MILK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM CONES 
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Throe Btom is the College 
District
6808 Portae Street, Squirrel Hill 
37X4 Torbee Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Bosleverl of the AUle*
Fort Pill is Am Place 
le Rent
TYPEWRITERS
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATUotlo 8820 
tU LIBERTY AVENUS
