CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.WEDNESDAY, MAY 4, 1949
One Of These Will Be QThrill Packed Carnival 
Has Entertainment Plus
Drama Alumni Crantz And Motyl 
To Present All-Star Musicale
ueen
Planner Of Cities
Forming: a heart of beauty are the seven girls 
who attained the highest vote in the Carnival 
Queen election last Friday. The identity of the 
queen will be kept secret until Carnival and the 
other six girls will serve as her court.
The girls are, clockwise from the lower left,
Anne Augustine, Delta Delta Deltar Dottie Kane, 
Kappa Kappa Gamma; Betty Lou Kaufman, Alpha 
Epsilon Phi; Marilyn Allshouse, Kappa Alpha Theta; Gloria Bergman, Delta Gamma; Vera Latchic, 
Kappa Kappa Gamma; and Corrine DiChiccis, Chi 
Omega.
CIT Symphony 
To Present 
Brahms Score
A German Requiem, one of 
the longest religious scores of all 
time and one of the greatest 
works of Johannes Brahms, will 
be performed in a free public 
concert by the CIT Student Sym
phony Orchestra and Chorus in 
Carnegie Music hall Thursday 
night, May 5.
The rarely heard Brahms Re
quiem, written in 1854-56 in 
memory of the composers mother 
and Robert Schumann, takes ap
proximately one hour to play.
Sweepstakes 
Activity Begins
Backyards, Workshops 
See Feverish Work
Backyard and workshop activity 
reached a feverish pitch this week 
as the 14 organizations, all the fra
ternities plus Citcom and Dorm 
Council, entered in the Sweep
stakes readied their entries for the 
preliminary heats to be run on Fri
day morning, May 13.
The preliminaries will consist of 
five heats. Three buggies will run 
in each of the first four prelimi
naries, and two buggies in the fifth 
heat. The three buggies having the 
best times will enter the final heat.
The final heat will be run at 1:00 
Saturday afternoon. Design judg
ing will take place on Friday 
morning at 9:30.
Now on display in the first floor 
corridor of Administration hall, 
the cups for the winners of the 
race and design competitions are 
the largest being awarded for any 
Carnival event this year, and have 
been acclaimed by many as the 
most beautiful of any given at re
cent Carnivals.
Last year the race was won by 
the Delta Tau Delta buggy, which 
covered the course, frrom Margaret 
Morrison college, past Westinghouse pond, around Flagstaff hill 
and back to the gym past Indus
tries hall, in 2:48, a 12 second im
provement over the previous year. 
Kappa Sigma won the design con
test last year and placed second 
in the race.
Elections Notice
Tuesday, May 24, has been 
set as the date for the all-school 
Student Council election. Peti
tions for candidates are availa
ble in the office of the Dean of 
Men, and will'*be due back in 
that office by 5:00 p. m. on 
Thursday, May 12. There must 
be at least forty (40) signatures 
on the petitions.
There are ten openings in En
gineering, two in MMCC, and 
three in Fine Arts, in addition 
to the assistant secretary who 
must be elected from the junior 
class in the secretarial depart
ment of Margaret Morrison. The 
petitions must be signed by stu
dents in the college of the can-- 
didate, except for the assistant 
secretary, who may obtain sig
natures in any college.
Polling places and the names 
of the candidates will be an
nounced in the May 18 Tartan. 
James Reynolds, 
Student Council 
Elections Chairman.
Scotch n Soda Is No Snap; 
Technical Crew Numbers 150
 Scotch and Soda, the biggest
show in the Carnegie Music 
hall each year, is no snap tech
nically. Fully 150 people are in
volved from designers on 
through the people who work on 
paints, props, lights, sound ef
fects, and costumes.
Months of work are required; 
specific problems must be fa<*t?a. 
For instance, the designer must 
not only take into consideration 
the requirements of the play but 
also the construction limitations 
of the Music hall.
He must plan his designs with 
careful thought to such other 
problems as the moving of the 
sets. They are constructed in the 
Fine Arts building, have to be 
transported from the campus to 
the Music Hall and set up in 
twenty-four hours.
Dimensions of doors and halls 
must not be overlooked. Furth
ermore the economical use of 
materials including those col^ lected in reserve over the years
is important.
MOLECULE MAN, carried on It is no simple task. An erthe shoulders of enthusiastic sup- ror can cost time and money, 
porters, will appear at the Car- both precious to any college pronegie Music Hall next week. duction.

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY. MAY 4, 1949
Editorials
Let There Be Light
Today Student Council faces the problem of 
ratifying the bylaws for their constitution. As it 
looks now the bylaws will not find the two-thirds 
majority vote needed to ratify them.
Why? The regressive attitude of the frater
nities is the answer. As long as the Hare sys
tem is specified the fraternities, who still hold 
enough positions to block the passage of the 
bylaws, will continue to fight this democratic 
s\stem because they feel it might do them some 
harm.
The Fraternities seem to have missed the 
point that the Hare system will do the school a 
lot of good and that whatever helps the school will 
help them. Fraternity aid in passing the Hare 
system would also help to remove the animosity 
of some independents that has arisen along 
with their feeling of being oppressed by the fra
ternities. The advantages to the campus that could 
result from the removing of this barrier are in
finite.
Fraternity politicos also seem to dismiss the 
fact that Independent disinterest is a thing of 
the past, and that the same system which gave 
them an overwhelming representation with only 
a small majority of voters could give them no 
representation if the Independents held this small 
majority.
The Hare system proved its ease of opera
tion last Friday in the Carnival Queen election. 
This eliminates one of the major objections to 
the system. In contrast to the present system 
which permits 51 per cent of the voters to elect 
a complete slate, the Hare system insures that 
minorities receive representation equal to the 
vote they turn out.
New Possibilities
With the introduction of the idea of the Under
graduate Advisory Committee this week, there 
open up for Carnegie students new possibilities 
for working with both the faculty and adminis
tration, and also their fellow students.
Whether or not they take advantage of the 
opportunity will depend to a large extent on the 
calibre of the men who are made members of 
this group in succeeding years. As long as their 
ideals remain high, their vision unimpaired, their 
humor good, their imagination unfettered, and 
their objectives thoughtful, such a group cannot 
fail to advance the cause of every student on 
the campus. For this reason they will deserve 
the cooperation of all.
Proof Positive
Congratulations and thanks are in order for 
the womens groups which sponsored candidates 
foi Carnival queen.
We have had the feeling all year that spirit 
was growing but this last expression of en
thusiasm for a campus activity let us know that 
it had finally arrived.
The active participation shown in the cam
paign proved that CIT students could still come 
out of their academic shell and demonstrated 
that they had ingenuity and enthusiasm for other 
things than passing exams. Spirit as was shown 
in the campaign is also a great help in breeding 
winning football teams.
I ail nTartan
OFFICES Carnegie Union 507& buruet sit.. Pittsburgh, Pa. TELEPHONE. SC 4557: after oours MU 5365. SC. 8951. Published weekly during the school year, except nolidays ana examination periods, by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology. Pittsburgh Pa.
Editor-in-Chief ....................................... Robert W. JohnsonBusines .Manager .................................... Samuel MosesAssociate Editor .................................... Burton L. EpsteinPersonnel Manager ................................. Richard B Mitchell
New* EditorRobert Kubiak. Sports EditorPauJ Otter-mann, Copy EditorBert Kimmel. Makeup Editor Ralph Painter. Art EditorRussel F Kulberg. Features Editor Frank Roth Advertising ManagerArthur G Zuch. Circulation Marager  Lewis S Sternberg *Proof EditorJohn Braun. Asst Business ManagerHerbert Stone Personnel AssistantRay Mangold. Chief ReportersBennard Perlman, Catherine Rudy, Joseph Wein- reich, Frances Hamborsky, Lauri Ehni. Chief Sports ReporterBill Dorn. Chief PhotographerRichard Deinmger. 
Copy StaffHamilton Bartlett, John Gerum, Analee Gel-man. Mary Cauffield, Robert Cloud, Elizabeth Asche, EdMuttart. Lloyd Dyer. Features StaffA. Starke , Drischell Gene Feist Jack Johnson. Makeup StaffA1 Bader. PhotographerLeland Green, Howard Miskill.ReportersJo Crisanti, Angela Pollis, Judy Block. Alan Blotcky. Joan Blumenthal, William Lyell, Nancy Sitler, Tom Birch. Cub ReportersSally Bachman, Hilda Chottiner. Jane Conner, Dorothy Karns, Edward Koos, Patricia Kelley, Sus MacFadden, Dolores Mitchell, Shirlee Ploeger, Bee Potter Jane Robb, Anita Tabellmi, Joan Williams, Nancy Will, Susan Flood. Sports StaffRichard Barr, Gerry Conlon, Robert Dougherty, Charles King Warren Lithgow, Fred Lunt. Art Mensing, John Roslund, Bruce Updike. Busiaess StaffMorty Baker. Edmund Denburg. Shirlee Goldenleld. Marjorie Weinsweig. Bud Smith. Bob Powers, Mitch Bakon. Herman P AlexanderTypistsPatti McDermott. Wilma Dickson Rodda Dean, Shirley Dixon.
Represented fox national advertising by NATIONAL ADVERTISING. Inc., College Publishers Representative. 420 Madison Ave.. New York City. Subscription $1.10 per year.Entered as second class matter on Oct. 4, 1907 at the Post Office at Pittsburgh. Pa., under the Act of March 3, 
1879. Accepted tor mailing at special rate of postage provided tor in the Act of February 28. 1925 Authorized Octo
ber 21, 1918.
------
Analvsis Is Made Of 
Arts Night Program
By A. Starke Drischell
Discussing Merits Of New Proposal Graduate Study
In Psychology
Begins In Fall
fare of the wounded veterans at the Aspinwall 
Veterans hospital.
Whole blood is needed by the Red Cross. Week
ly quotas have fallen short by 40% or more. 
You can make a donation at *he Wabash build
ing any Thursday from 1:30 ,;o 8:30.
This is not the time to ft rget the men who 
are still paying for the war
Its not news that the Arts Night committee 
this year undertook a project of highly contro
versial proportions. Their thematic problem was: 
an attempt to find those qualities in each art 
which gives it its uniqueness as well as those 
which recur in each art form.
Two rooms of exhibition material, as well 
as a program in the Carnegie Theatre, were de
signed to accomplish this objective.
Not Condescending
Some complained that the attitude presented 
was one comparable to the commercial writers 
sin of so called writing down, condescending, 
as it were, to the layman's level. This, fortunate
ly, was not an opinion widely voiced. If there 
is not simplicity, one can only ask, how then can 
there be understanding?
So complicated an element of human exist
ence as art requires constant striving for under
standing through basic principles. These basic 
principles do certainly exist, and no one .can 
alter them. Man can do nothing more than strive 
to understand them and then struggle to apply 
them. 
Need Closer Coordination
The difficulty with Arts Night then was not 
in the problem undertaken. Rather it was in 
the execution. Much closer coordination should 
have been exercised.
Aside from the delightful highly successful 
exhibit in the small exhibition room, and single 
sections of the work in the large exhibition room, 
the demonstration of the uniqueness of each 
art and the universal qualities were lost. They 
were not clearly depicted and stated.
In Embryonic State
The need for collaboration within the depart
ments themselves from the very beginning of 
the fall term seems indicated. That such collab
oration can be accomplished is promised by the 
overwhelming attendance and interest shown the 
program.
Fine Arts has something vitally important here 
in a delicate, embryonic state. Whether it em
erges to the impact of its potentialities or shrivels 
away and disappears remains to be %een. The next 
two years will be the crucial ones.
Part of the United States Navy lies enshrined on the CIT 
campus. Unknown to most students, a ships prow just over the 
grand canyon of the B & O behind Machinery hall, a reminder of
the early years of the college. ?----------------------------------------------------
Though the prow itself is only
a cement facsimile, it serves as a 
mounting for the bronze bow or
nament of a dismantled cruiser, 
the old U.S.S. Pennsylvania. The 
figurehead was acquired from the 
government when the ship was 
deactivated at the Puget Sound 
Navy Yard in 1912.
Gifts Ransom 
It was intended as a gift, al
though the college treasurer may 
have taken a dim view of this gen
erosity when he paid the freight 
bill of $282.03.
Crusted and discolored from its 
long naval service as well as 40 
years of Pittsburgh weather, the 
bronze figurehead consists of 
groupings of heavy, interlocking 
scrollwork surmounted by the fa
miliar Great Seal of the United 
States.
Must Be Distinctive 
It is a relic of that bygone era 
when no ship worthy of the name 
was complete without its distinc
tive and artistic figurehead.
One might well ask the reasons 
for the unusual location of the 
ornament. It is explained by the 
fact that the original plans for 
CIT called for the main entrance 
to be located at what is now the 
rear of Machinery Hall.
Plans Changed 
This was a natural choice since 
the original land grant from the 
city extended to the edge of the 
B & O Railroad and thus com
muters would have easy access to 
the school. Consequently, the con
crete prow and its mounted figure
head were erected where it ap
peared they would have the great
est decorative value.
In the years following, however, 
trouble with the railroad over 
property rights moved the schools 
boundaries to their present limits. 
This change in,plans has left the 
old monument to itself, to fall 
into disrepair and a somewhat un
sightly state of slow decay.
Large Profit From 
Kiltie Concert 
To Buy Uniforms
Enthusiastic applause rewarded 
the Kiltie band when the final cur
tain fell on their spring concert 
last Thursday. The five hundred 
dollar profit from the concert will 
be used to buy uniforms for next 
falls marching band.
Purpose of the concert was to 
show the versatility of the modern 
symphonic band. According to the 
director of the Pitt band, the Kil
ties have a very fine organiza
tion. The audience showed its ap
preciation by demanding four en
cores.
Kiltie members will head the 
Spring Carnival parade and also 
sell refreshments at Saturday 
nights dance.
The next lawn concert is to be 
held on May 17, in front of the 
Fine Arts building at noon. The 
Kilties will play a number of light 
classical selections.
For Those Who Suffer
Those students who were too young to make 
a contribution to the war effort, and all others 
for that matter, have an unparalleled opportunity 
to make a significant contribution to the welShips Prow From U. S. Navy 
Lies Enshrined On CIT Campus
Graduate study in industrial 
and experimental psychology will 
be available at Carnegie starting 
next September. This graduate 
program will be restricted to a 
small number of students selected 
on the basis of ability and pro
fessional interests.
Only students interested in 
carrying on a full time program 
leading to the Ph.D. degree will 
be considered, although an M.S. 
degree may be obtainedBackground in the biological 
and physical sciences will be giv
en special attention. An under
graduate major in psychology is 
not required for admission to 
graduate study. Graduate record 
examination scores, where availa
ble, should be submitted to the 
Dean of Humanistic and Social 
Studies.
The needs, background, and 
special interests of the individual 
student will determine the spec
ific program to be followed. Em
phasis will be placed upon the 
full development and complete 
preparation of the student rather 
than upon the study of particular 
courses.

---------------------------------------------------

Whose shorts always
sawed him m fwo.
A clever may wan named Blue,
'Arrows no-center-seamHeard his better half scream
Means much greater comfort 1
for vou /* No chafin*_ / center seam
If your shorts are the saw-tooth variety or the creeping 
Indian variety  switch to Arrow shorts and you won't have 
one squirm per term!
Arrow shorts come in wjjite, solid colors, and stripes with 
gripper fasteners and the "Sanforized" label.
C o py   o 1_/ yIo 
fshIrIt a ptsheIwpyI-o a ovio opyo 
V.V.V.V.V.VV.SW.'.VAV..W.V/.VA'.V.'.VM1
MENS WEAR
5816 Forbes St. Squirrel Hill
icn_ Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday Evenings
WEDNESDAY, MAY 4, 1949
Controversial Architect WrightI?Gives Lecture Here Today
Most controversial figure in architecture today, Frank Lloyd 
Wright, will come to Carnegie Tech to lecture today.
Often called the worlds greatest architect, Mr. Wright has 
been honored by Europeans for over twenty years. But it wasnt 
until last March that the American*----------------------_________________
Institute of Architects finally gave 
him its gold medal.
Enduring Quality
Mr. Wright is 80 years old and 
has practiced since befor the turn 
of the century. He has many bitter 
critics, but his work is of an en
during quality and he himself has 
outlived many generations of opponents.
His first work which won him 
fame in Europe was the Imperial 
Hotel in Tokyo. Based on a new 
principle, it was able to withstand 
the shock of the disastrous 1926 
earthquake. He is a leader in the 
field of organic architecture. In an 
attempt to explain the term, it 
could be called the process of de
signing a building from the inside 
out.
Concrete and Glass
A famous, much-photographed 
work of his is the Kaufmann 
house, Falling Water. It is an 
intresting specimen of reinforced 
concrete and glass, and is built 
over a waterfall.
A helix in the novel form he 
planned for the new Guggenheim 
Museum of Non-Objective Art to 
to be built this summer. He has 
also designed two schemes for 
Pittsburghs point-park project.
Student Communities
Rather than having a conven
tional office, Mr. Wright has young 
men and women apprentices work
ing and studying under him. They 
live in small communities near his 
home in Wisconsin, Taliesin, and 
in Arizona, Taliesin West.
Campus Headquarters for Arrow Products and 
Nationally Known Clothing and Furnishings .
gIisthdo Iso opiv
Corner Forbes and Atwood St. Oakland
THE CARNEGIE TARTAN________________________________________________________ 3
Hare System Almost Passes
Lack Of Quorum Voids Meeting;
Sinclair To Head Reorganization
By Tom Birch
In a dry run session last week, Council sailed into the contro
versial Hare system proposal without realizing that there was no 
quorum present. As a result, all business transacted was to no 
avail.
Roll call showed 22 councilmen 
present which is the minimum 
number for a quorum, but shortly 
after the roll call Frances Rea 
left the meeting. Under the pres
ent bylaws, members who leave 
before adjournment are counted 
as absent. For this reason there 
were only 21 members present 
which is not a legal quorum. This 
was not realized until after the 
meeting.
Dave Sapper, points and keys 
committee chairman, asked that 
Jay Johnson, Scimitar president, 
and Ames Penfield, Delta Skull 
president, be made members of 
the poipts and keys committee.
President Ryan named Coun
cilman Sinclair to head the class 
organization committee. The new 
Citcom Clan constitution was also 
supposedly approved.
Hare System Debated
Discussion on the adoption of 
the Hare system of counting bal
lots was limited to 30 minutes. 
During this time, Arbon Lang 
outlined the significance of the
system by showing how it at
taches more importance to the 
votes of students who are not in 
organized voting groups.
Councilman Fockler supported 
Langs statements by saying, Its 
certainly to Councils advantage 
to have all groups represented, 
and I think the Hare system is 
the best way to do this.
Taint Legal
After the alloted discussion 
time was over Dave Sapper tried 
to get in a last attack on the 
topic under the guise of a point 
of information, but was rebuked 
by the taint legal ruling of 
President Ryan and other Coun
cil members.
Asking for a delay in the vote 
until this week, Councilman Rey
nolds claimed that he didnt com
pletely understand the Hare sys
tem. He felt that he. as elections 
chairman, should be given an op
portunity to study the system 
more closely.
Bylaws Rejected 
By a 13 to 7 vote, the system 
was thought to be included in the
proposed-bylaws. This move com
pleted the work on the bylaws, 
and Ted Goodson immediately 
moved that they be adopted in 
their entirety.
Councilman Fondrks motion 
for a secret ballot was defeated, 
'and the bylaws failed to meet the 
required two-thirds majority by a 
scant 13 to 7 count.
Fockler then proposed that 
Council vote on the adoption of 
everything except the part con
cerning balloting. Lang sharply 
objected to this by declaring, It 
isnt right for Council to take all 
the gravy of the bylaws without 
accepting their real meat. Focklers motion was defeated.
The illegality of last weeks 
meeting ijieans that Council will 
have to start all over again this 
week to try to settle the issue.
Have An Idea For New Mag? 
Heres Chance To Use It
Another meeting will be held 
tomorrow for the purpose of es
tablishing a new campus variety 
magazine at 4:30 in Room D, 
Carnegie Union. All persons 
having any suggestions for the 
magazine are invited to submit 
written outlines of their plans 
at that time and to be present to 
explain their ideas.
John B. Fockler, 
Publications Chairman.
Make "BUD" your ARROW 
Headquarters
236 Diamond St.
Across From Donahoes
ATlantic 2964
It serves her right!
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
M
ary jane gives the "telephone in her 
house a real work-out.
But were not worried a bit. We know 
Mary Jane s telephone is going- to keep right 
on delivering good service year after year. 
Because the Bell System puts a lot of time, 
thought, and testing into making telephone 
equipment as rugged and trouble-free as 
possible.
Tests are constantly under way at the 
Bell Telephone Laboratories. There, for 
example, new types of telephone instru
ments are put through a school of hard 
knocks. Dials and other parts are given 
strength and wear tests. Even the bottom 
of the telephone set has been designed 
and checked to make sure that it will not 
scratch or stain furniture.
Such testson little things as well as on 
big thingshelp give you the worlds best 
telephone service at the lowest possible

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, MAY 4, 1949
Paul Offermann's
Amusing Story Told$porscope% Buddy> verendOn NCAA Resignation
One of the most amusing stories that probably ever came 
off Carnegies campus in connection with our athletic policy 
was the manner in which we dropped out of the National Col 
legiate Athletic Association back around 1942.
Until a few years ago, the NCAA had in operation a very 
rigid eligibility code which members were expected to live 
up to under penalty of fine or expulsion. When Dr. Doherty 
read the rules in 1942, he realized that Carnegie was not 
living up to them since the grand total of $450 in scholarship 
was at that time being awarded to two Tartan football play
ers. He immediately asked athletic director Clarence (Buddy) 
Overend to send in our resignation.
Mr. Overend admits that he was very surprised when the 
secretary of the NCAA accepted the resignation. It didnt seem 
possible at the time that the simon pure of them all, Carnegie 
Tech, would ever have to apologize and resign from anything 
because of subsidization procedures.
Although the NCAA has performed invaluable service to
wards intercollegiate sports, their so-called purity laws are 
very ineffective, and an insult to the millions of sport follow
ers in America who are annually drugged with reams of bally
hoo on fake attempts to halt the spread of commercialism in 
college athletics.We talked with one college representative to the NCAA 
who said that he woulfl sit for hours at the annual meetings 
and listen to big-time college representatives lie about their 
subsidization procedures.The Steffan Fund which Carnegie utilizes for awarding 
scholarships to athletes is perfectly legal under the present code 
of the NCAA, and it is probably a good guess that we will once 
again be represented by the time next fall rolls around.
Odd notesFollowing the Tartans scrimmage with Du
quesne last week, one spectator was heard to remark as he left 
the field, Whats Baker been feeding those guysraw meat?
. . . While the football and track teams have been garnering 
all of the attention during the past couple of weeks, the basket
ball schedule for next season was being drawn up. Although 
unofficial, it is rumored that the Tartans will play their most 
difficult schedule in years . . . Last Monday the basketball team 
opened up their informal spring drills. Interest among the 
team members seems to be running high . . . Gerry Helland, 
who starred for the 1947 football Tartans before transferring 
to Annapolis, broke the plebe record for the javelin throw at 
the Navy school when he hurled the spear 207 feet a few ago.
Plaid Netmen Defeat Geneva; 
Golfers Edged By Duquesne
Wes Curtis Low Man; 
Ralph Sill Also Wins
Almost clipping Duquesnes 
eleven game winning streak, the 
Tartan golf team opened its sea
son last Friday at the Pittsburgh 
Field club with a 9%-8xk defeat.
Wes Curtis, playing his first 
varsity competition for the Plaid, 
was low medal scorer with a 75 
total. Ralph Sill also outscored his 
opponent.
Summary
Bieltz (Duquesne) defeated Johnson (CIT), 2-1; Curtis (CIT) defeated Wer- nersbach (Duquesne), 3-0; Sill (CIT) defeated Slivka (Duquesne), 2-1; Farrell (Duquesne) defeated Denburg (CIT), 2-1; Kleinheintz (Duquesne) defeated Meyers (CIT), 2 Vi-/a;; Jarecki (Duquesne) defeated Dean (CIT), 2-1. 
Green Opposition Give 
Racqueteers Easy Win
Carnegies tennis team opened 
its season with a 7-2 victory over 
Geneva last Friday on home 
courts.
The match gives little indica
tion of Skibo strength, since Ge
neva had no returning lettermen 
and used green players.
Summary
McConnell (CIT) defeated Milson (Geneva), 6-3, 6-0; Montstream (CIT) defeated Rankin (Geneva) 6-1, 6-0; Sheets, (Geneva) defeated Becker (CIT), 6-2, 6-2; Ruhe (Geneva) defeated Cronin (CIT), 7-5, 6-4; Shoemaker (CIT) defeated Mclsaac (Geneva) 6-2, 6-1; Moon (CIT) defeated Robb (Geneva) 6-1, 6-0; McConnell and Becker (CIT) defeated Rankin and Wilson (Geneva) 6-1, 6-3; Moon and Shoemaker (CIT) defeated Ruhe and Sheet (Geneva), 7-5, 6-0;Montstream and Glass (CIT) defeated Mclsaac and Robb (Geneva), 6-0, 6-1.
UNDERWOOD
$8450
fht W. ixciiTom ti.07
TERMS ARRANGED
The complete personal typewriter . . . with 
inbuilt tabulator and many other feature 
that make the Champion a truly modern 
portable. Finished in soft French-gray and 
chromium. Smart carrying case included.
-Au' vq'' mcn!uq'nu wAj
,ll gy"IS tzIsfI 
tj b.ME
Varsity Calendar
Tuesday, May 2Track meet 
Skibo Bowl
Wednesday, May 3Football 
scrimmageSt. VincentSkibo 
Bowl
Friday, May 6GolfWaynesburgh at Waynesburgh
Saturday, May 7Track meet 
AlleghenySkido Bowl
TennisAllegheny at Meadville
Monday, May 9  Tennis  
Geneva  Home
Tuesday, May 10  Golf  
Westminster  Pittsburgh Field 
Club
John Windish takes his turn on the blocking machine as the 
Tartans wind up their lengthy spring drills. Directing the blocking 
drills at left is assistant coach A1 Irwin.
Grove City Thinclads Almost 
Upset By Carnegie Track Team
Cassler And Hammann Set Pace For Tartans
But Team Shows Weakness In Field Events
GROVE CITY, April 30With consistent Ernie Cassler and lanky 
Connie Hammann setting the pace, Carnegie Techs track and field 
team came within one first place of handing Grove City its first 
defeat in two years today. ?------------------------------------------------------
Gridders End Spring 
Training Season Today
St. Vincent Provides Opposition 
As Long Drills End With Scrimmage
The St. Vincent Bearcats will invade the Skibo Bowl this Wed
nesday afternoon at 4:30 to help the Carnegie gridders close out 
their lengthy spring football drills.
If the Plaids last two outings against the Pitt JVs and Duquesne
? are indicative of the strength of 
the 1949 pigskin edition, Dr. Ed
die Bakers boys should have lit
tle trouble with the visitors from 
Latrobe in this informal scrim
mage game.
Kenney Connects 
Last Tuesday afternoon the Tar
tans surprised everyone but them
selves as they held the Duquesne 
Dukes to a 6-6 tie, the Bluffites 
scoring their lone touchdown on 
the very last play of the contest.
Earlier in the game, quarter
back Wes Kenney hit end Fritz 
Wilson with a perfect jump-pass, 
the play carrying more than 70 
yards- as the speedp Wilson out
distanced the entire Duquesne 
backfield.
Line Is Tough
Linemen were particularly im
pressive in this scrimmage as they 
stopped the opponents drives deep 
in Carnegie territory several 
times.
Offensively, the team stacks up 
very well, having firmly grasped 
their new formation, the wingedT. Pass defense, however, always 
a weak point on Carnegie teams 
the past few years, still appears 
to need considerable improve
ment.
The Wolverines, number one 
class B team in the district last 
year, took advantage of the Tar
tans weakness in the field events 
to snatch away what almost was 
an upset of major proportions for 
coach Guy Halfertys team.
The weight events proved es
pecially disasterous for the Plaid 
contestants; of 27 points ior the 
shot put, javelin, and discus they 
were only able to salvage seven.
Very Pleased
Halferty commented after the 
meet that he was very pleased 
with the showing his boys made. 
This is the first time in many 
years that the team has looked this 
good, said the veteran coach. The 
loss of high and broad jumper 
Gene Riehl from last years squad 
has been more than compensated 
by the excellent work of Connie 
Hamman in the high jump and 
freshmen football players Johnny 
Luchok and Fritz Wilson in the 
broad jump.
The amazing Cassler once again 
breezed home in front in both of 
his specialities, the 100- and 220- 
yard dashes. Hamman easily took 
the high* hurdles, and then jump
ed 5 feet, 10 inches for first place 
in the high jump.
Davies Wins
Ivor Davies, captain of this 
years squad, took the lead mid
way through the 440-yard run 
and finished well out in front.
Probably the best demonstra
tion of running for the entire aft
ernoon was the triumph of the 
Skibo team in the one-mile relay. 
Chuck Kurcina, George Dorman, 
Fred Price, and Davies outclass
ed the Grovers with a time of 
3:39, despite the fact that Cassler 
was unable to run.
Because Alberts, Carnegies 
hope in the one-mile run was ab 
sent from the meet, Halferty was 
forced to start Gene Cockrell, by 
trade a two-miler. Cockrell, a con
sistent placer in the two mile, 
finished third in the shorter dist
ance, but was unable to finish in 
his specialty.
Summary
TRACK EVENTS100-yard dashWon by Cassler (CIT); Minnich (CIT), second; Courtney (GC), third. Time:10.4.220-yard dashWon by Cassler (CIT); Baughman (GC), second; Courtney (GC), third. Time:22.7.440-yard dashWon by Davies (CIT); Bechtold (GC). second; Jones (GC), third. Time:52.4.880-yard dashWon by Dorman (CIT); Alloway (GC), second; Harbauer (GC), third. Time2:09.Mile runWon by Shoemaker (GC); Etter (GC), second; Cockrell (CIT), third. Time-4:54.3.Two-mile runWon by Kroske (GC); McElhaney (CIT), second; Cooper (CIT), third. Time11:11.4.120-yard high hurdlesWon by Hammann (CIT); Sutcliffe (GC), second;Holsinger (GC), third. Time:26.4.220-yard low hurdlesWon by Bechtoll (GC); Wiewell (CIT), second; innich(CIT), third. Time:26.4.ile relayWon by Carnegie Tech(Kurcins, Dorman, Price, Davies). Time 3:39.FIELD EVENTSShotputWon by Maddalena (GC); Kistler (CIT), second; Hiack (GC),third, istance39 feet 9% inches.Javelin throwWon by Hiack (GC); Reno (GC), secohd; Flynn (CIT), third. Distance163 feet 8 inches.Discus throwWon by Carlson (GC); Trautman (CIT), second; Williams (GC), third. Distance118 feet 3'/* inches.Pole VaultThree-way tie among Hamilton (GC), Tucci (GC), and Kingsley (GC). Height9 feet 6 Inches.High JumpWon by Hammann (CIT); Sutcliffe (GC), second; Bartlett (GC), third. Height5 feet 10 inches.Broad JumpWon by Luchok (CIT); Wilson (CIT), second; Ellwood (GC), third .Distance20 feet 11% inches.
Phone MU. 7995
Mollies 
ovtNpIy pifoI
Steaks - Chops - Ravioli
l,bz1 -AuWnR o'j vq''RW$u84 .5 v1j
Badminton Games 
Get Under Way 
Within Next Week
Badminton games will definite
ly get under way within the next 
week. A list has been posted on 
the IM bulletin board in the gym 
and all individuals interested in 
the sport are urged to sign up.
The schedule will be arranged 
as soon as possible and if there are 
enough participants doubles as 
well as singles games will be 
scheduled.
Pitts table tennis team, made 
up of the schools top players, met 
a Tech team yesterday. Techs 
team consists of three TXs (Am
brose, Lee and Zukasky) and three 
Emanon players (Munsell, Holmes 
and Curtis).
Tentative plans have also been 
made for matches in archery and 
horseshoe pitching. Neither of 
these events will be scheduled un
til after Spring Carnival.
gn'0R 8A to
ISALY'S
Milk Shakes 
Big Ice Cream Cones 
Klondikes 
Tasty Lundies
Three Stores In the College 
District
kbEb -'uW'R o'u$' oB$quunK pqKK 
.Tl -'uLG1' o'unq' i1VK1_/
1'n vK1_'q
..bE "AqK'Y1uq nL '4n tKKqnR

---------------------------------------------------

ing the
inated
cussion
John Heubal of Sigma Nu slides 
into Kappa Sig catcher Chuck AnWELL ILL GIVE IT A TRY. YOUR vigINiIsifoREMARKS SEEM TO 
RING TRUE __^
JOHNNY SHOWED THE WAY TO si wy,tII ptsNizI SOHE GETS THE P1RST RlOE IN THE NEWdOY-BOAT! _________
PROVED 
DEFINlTELy LESS 
IRRITATING 
THAN ANY 
OTHER
Copy1
BRANP! j
WE'RE NOT FORGETTING HOWJOHNNYS ADVICE .ABOUT vpygyv iyoADDED TO1 TOM'S
CopyyC 1 _
TNT, Frosh Architects Each 
Win Twice As Softball O
Faculty Team Off To 
Slow Start; Morale High
Softball got off to a slow start 
this week with only eight games 
played in all the three leagues. 
Most of the activity was in the 
Americair league.
The Freshmen Architects, ex
hibiting a hard-hitting club, took 
the lead in the American circuit 
with 13-5 and 32-0 wins over the 
Stanley Steamers and the Faculty 
Bulldogs respectively. The newly 
formed faculty team,'although a 
little weak in their first game, ex
pect a great improvement with 
further organization. The Dramats 
overcame the Beta Sigs in a 14-11 
slugfest, while Emanon shut out 
Citcom B in the other two games 
in the league.
In the National league TNT, last 
years winners, came through with 
an exciting 3-2 last-inning victory 
over the SAEs. The SAEs, leading 
2-1 in the last inning, lost the 
game when they failed to cover 
first on Marty Chetlins bunt. The 
TNTs took a second victory with 
a 9-3 win over Citcom A.
The only ctivity in the Federal 
League was the Grand Chemists 
7-2 win over the 49ers, and a hard
hitting 14-10 win by the Clippers 
over the Gringos.
The Sigma Nus, expected to be 
one of the leading contenders for 
the school crown, squeezed three 
runs over in th sixth inning to 
defeat Kappa Sigma 7-4. A glossy 
pitching performance by Frank 
Motter of the KSs was spoiled by 
shoddy fielding by his teammates.
Softball Standings
AMERICAN LEAGUE
CAR ArchEmanonDramatsDeltaBetas
W L|WStanley Stmrs 0 Fac. Bulldogs 0 Beta Sigs 0Citcom B 0
TNTTheta Xi ATO SN Q
Clippers Grad. Chem. PiKA SN P" 
Kappa Sigma
NATIONAL LEAGUE
W L| W L2 0| Grad. Physts 0 00 0| DU 0 00 0| SAE 0 10 0| Citcom A" 0 1
FEDERAL LEAGUE
W LI W L1 0| Tau Delts 0 01 0| Phi Kaps 0 00 0| Gringos 0 10 0| 49ers 0 10 0|
Softball Schedule
Wed., May 44:30 P. M. Cit. B vs. Fac., G. Chem. vs. KS. Cit A vs. DU6:00 P. M. TX vs. SN Q, DTD vs. BSR. ATO vs. SAE, PK vs. KS.Thurs.4:3049ers vs. SN P", TX vs. ATO, Fr. Arch vs. DTD, PKA vs. Clip.6:00Gr Ph. vs. SAE, Stan. St. vs. Em PK vs. Gr. Ch.Fri.4:30Em vs. Fac., BTP vs. Dram., Cit. B vs. BSR, Cit. A vs. Gr. Ph.
Mon.4:30Gr. Ch. vs. SN P, 49ers vs. PKA. Cit. A vs. SN Q, DU vs. ATO6:00BTP vs. DTD, Fac. Vs. BSR, KS vs. TDT, TNT vs. TX.
ocnGq1K g$_G4nR LAu 
o'$/n_'R 1_/ "$Rq_nRROn_
11:00 A. M.2:00 P. M. 40c and UP
AUTHENTIC CHINESE DISHES
also
AMERICAN DISHES SERVED
Bamboo Gardens
3531 FORBES STREET 
tj TlU.
derson to score as the strong Sig
ma Nu team won their opening 
game 7-4.
Kappa Sigma plays the gradu
ate chemists today at 4:30 while 
Sigma Nu takes on Theta Xi at 
the same time.
Tartan Honors 
Varsity Athlete 
With Trophy
The first annual trophy pre
sentation to Carnegies most out
standing varsity athlete will be 
made at the intermission of the 
formal dance on Saturday night of 
Spring Carnival. The award is 
being sponsored by the Tartan.
Ten athletes who starred for 
various Carnegie sport entries durthe past year have been nomfor the award after diswith coaches, athletic di
rector, and others on the Carnegie 
sport scene.
The men under consideration for 
the award include: Ernie Cassler 
(track), Martin Chetlin (basket
ball), Ivor Davies (cross country 
and track), Dave Luckey (swim
ming), Jack Riehl (basketball), 
Nick Simcic (football), Mike The
odore (basketball), John William
son (football), John Windish 
(football), and Floyd Wiseman 
(football).
Football and basketball coaches, 
athletic director Clarence (Bud
dy) Overend, and the sports edi
tor of the Tartan will hold a meet
ing to decide on the final choice.
IM Soccer Approaches End; 
Delts, Emanon Lead Leagues
Championship Play-offs Held This Afternoon 5
Too Many Injuries May End Future Soccer
As the intramural soccer teams entered their final week of com
petition, the race for the school championship narrowed considerably.
Delta Tau Delta leads the American League with five wins and 
no losses while Emanon is pacing the National League with a KqVn 
record of five victories and noOdefeats.
Dets, Phi Kaps Meet
In the American League, the 
Kappa Sigs and the Phi Kappas 
are safely holding down second 
and third place respectively while 
the Stanley Steamers and Theta 
Xi are trailing Emanon in the 
National League.
Of the remaining league games 
scheduled for this week, the most 
important contest is between the 
Delts and the Phi Kappas Tues
day afternoon. Should the Delts 
lose, the American League may 
be thrown into a three-way tie 
for first place.
Many Injuries
However, since neither Emanon 
nor the Delts have been hard 
pressed in any game, it seems cer
tain that they will meet in the 
play-offs Wednesday afternoon.
Fractures, torn ligaments and 
concussions have taken a heavjj 
toll of soccer players this year, 
Because of the abnormal amount 
of injuries sustained, it is possi
ble that six-man socer may Wn 
withdrawn next year as an intra
mural sport.
LEAGUE STANDINGSAMERICANWDelts 5K S 4PK 4Citcom 3SN 3ATO 1PiKA 0
NATIONALW XiEmanonSt .St.TXDUBTPTDB
For That Quick Bite, theSPORT CENTER GRILL
.b. -qL'4 tYn_$n
Fast Service and Good Food 
IDEAL FOR LUNCH
H r (* A P E ^ 5
ufrvMBL
HELPS TOM PROTECT kJOHNNTr PRIMOGENITOR/S PROWESS
WHENCE DOES THIS vftyzI ILLNESS STEM ?TOM/YOUR Iwyhyzyo WON'T WIN VOUR VARSITY LETTER AS MANAGER OF THE 
BALL TEAM. THAT MEANS POP MAY GIVE yOU A MERE gtNsytvvI INSTEAD OF A 
CONVERTIBLE FOR YOUR BIRTHDAY
MY THROATS ON FIRE 
I FEEL AS IF I COULD 
USE A -I"y-fNI 5Hise*
AND POP WONT FORGET THAT HE USED TO CAPTAIN HIS TEAM. BUT I FEEL SO TERRIBLE I'M READY FOR 
A gtwpStiS
ex.s.OH/NEEDS SOME 
SMOKING/TOMOHGOOD ADVICEON
TOM, WHEW SMOKING LEAVES YOUR THROAT RAW AND 
IT FEELS ON FIRE, ITS TIME TO SWITCH TO vpygyvOAuuqRjYA$dKK Onef fTTACKLE THAT JOB WITH 
si wyNtII ptsNizI
Urneond
PHILIPMORRIS
really 
prove someTOM, THAT WAS A BRILLIANT JOB OF SCHEDULING HOME 
GAMES. IT HASN'T GONE UNNOTICED, EITHER YOU RE A TOP CANDIDATE FOR .MANAGER
WYOU COULDN'T GIVE > 
jENOUGH vigyJyS TOV *^fty^THOSE REMARKS, COACH/
" TOM CERTAINLY 1 "
SEEMS IfvpiywHDPF
-Os
d
IS OUR POP PROUD OF TOM FOR WINNING 
OUT AS MANAGER./
Use These Words With Tongue In Cheek!
?vK1_ 'A $Rn isI Y1um !nnV yD
Ifvpiyw ?$>LA>uqGD*-n^q_8 y_ '4C NuAAYnj
-I"y-fNI ?Lnuq>L$9D>t -nYnu nKqnYnuj
gtwpStiS ?K1KG>uq>OK>'A>uqD > w$c nK 
'n1uC5 _A' G4nnuR5
gtNsytvvI ?K1_>m1cD*t 'uqLKq_8 8qL'j
si wyNtII ptsNizI>P sA '1K ROAVn/> 
A$' '1R'n3 _A 'q84' /um LnnKq_8 q_ mA$u '4uA1' /$n 
'A ROAVq_8j
vyiNIsyi ?(u'>OA>8L_>q>'AuD > -AunWn1u3 
'4n ddw4nGV>WAAV 'A mAmj
vigINiIsifo ?cui>KAL>AdO>n>_$RD 
*vunL1'Aumj
vigyJyS ?cHA>KqV>Rq>'KD>KA_8>!q_/n/j5j
vftyzI ?c$>'1>'qYD * nc$'n/5 R$ccARn/ * q' 
RnQ 4nunj< .
Iwyhyzyo ?uA>Rq/>K>YqROD > v1''q_8 W1GV q_'A 
W1/ 41Wq'Rj
TONICITY (o-nlfr4*l)-Vigor, hedth.
WEDNESDAY, MAY 4, 1949 THE CARNEGIE TARTAN

---------------------------------------------------

n
THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, MAY 4, 1949
President*s Latest Experiments In 
Relations With Students Begin Soon
[Continued from page I]
ate Advisory Committee and the 
Student Conference committee, the 
most significant of the differences 
in the two groups is that the new 
group will have a more definite 
responsibility, which is to organ
ize continuing discussions on dif
ficult or involved problems, and 
to take the responsibility for car
rying out their solutions, once 
they are determined.
Although the fundamental pur
pose of the committee is to act 
as counsel to the President on stu
dent affairs, they are free to work 
in areas apart from their rela
tionships with the President.
To Meet Beforehand
When they meet with the Presi
dent, they will not go in cold, 
as the Student Conference com
mittee members so often have, but 
they will meet beforehand to con
solidate their information and 
views on the subject. Thus the 
meetings with the President are 
expected to be much more fruit
ful.
One of the duties of the UAC 
will be to aid in the administra
tion of the social hours planned 
by Dr. Doherty, by advising the 
Dean of Men regarding the selec
tion of the groups and individuals 
who are to be included.
Small Group
An important feature of the 
group, as pointed out by Dr. Do
herty, was that it would be re
stricted to a maximum of eight 
members and a minimum of six.
I have found, he said, that 
the optimum number for group 
discussions of this type is right 
around seven.
To avoid any possibility of 
campus politics entering into the 
deliberations a majority of the 
group is empowered to prevent a 
political question from being con
sidered.
Women Considered
Walt Ambrose, Technical edi
tor, raised the question of the rep
resentation of women on the 
committee, since it was to be 
built around ODK, a mens hon
orary.
Although there is no specific 
provision for women, the Presi
dent pointed out, there is every 
reason why they should be on the 
committee when they can make 
the proper contribution.
Selection On Interest
The outline of membership re
quirements states that the mem
bers shall be selected on the 
basis of familiarity with campus
Dramats Present 
Twin Bill Next
Dr. A. Nicholas Vardac, member 
of the drama department of the 
University of Stanford, will be 
guest director of the coming twin 
production in the Carnegie Thea
tre late in May.
Antiogne, Jean Anouilhs 
adaptation of the French version 
by Lewis Galantiere and The 
Showing of Blanco Posnet by 
George Bernard Shaw, will both 
be presented on the same progi am. 
There will be a short intermission 
between the two plays.
Mr. Lloyd Weninger, head of the 
scene design department of the 
drama school, will design sets for 
both productions. Mr. Weninger is 
well remembered for his play 
619. Portrait of Polish Family.
EXPERT REPAIRS
ADIOS, PHONOGRAPHS, APPLIANCES
Sales and Service
LEWIS RADIO 
ELECTRIC CO.
ltd OAKLAND AVI. HA. til
Brimg Yo&r Radio Problems 
To fR
Co py 1_/I_a
problems, interest in their solu
tion, promise of constructive con
tributions, ability to work with 
others, known willingness to work 
unselfishly, and leadership abili
ty.
The suggestion was made that 
the Tartan editor should be made 
a member of the committee, but 
this was not favored by Dr. Do
herty since the experiment was 
being tried wholly on the basis 
of the qualifications stated above.
Senior ME Wins Prize 
In Collegiate Contest
William Thompson, senior me
chanical engineering student, was 
awarded second prize for his pa
per in the annual eleven college 
competition of the ASME. Thomp
sons paper, An Investigation of 
Water Injection in an Automobile 
Engine was based on original 
work done in the mechanical en
gineering laboratory.
SAM Official 
Speaks Here
The CIT chapter of SAM will 
hold its monthly meeting at 8:00 
p. m., Friday, May 6, in the PiKA 
house. Irving B. Gruber, vice 
president of the Pittsburgh chap
ter of SAM, will speak on What 
SAM is Doing for Management in 
America.
Also included in the program 
will be an industrial movie, 
Fords River Rouge Plant, as 
well as refreshments and other 
recreation. Tickets, priced at 50c, 
may be obtained from any officer 
or member of the social committee 
of SAM.
Mr. Gruber, now vice president 
of the American Forge 'and Manu
facturing Co., graduated from CIT 
in 1936 with a degree in manage
ment engineering. He has a thor
ough knowledge of industrial prob
lems, having served as general su
perintendent of the Sawhill Manu
facturing Co. and as former vice 
president of the United Tube Cor
poration before assuming his pres
ent position.
For the past three years Mr. 
Gruber has been Professor of In
dustrial Management of the even
ing school.
Design New Ring 
For Women Grads
Women graduates of CIT will 
be sporting a new smaller type 
college degree rings this year. On 
the suggestion of many of the girls 
and under the auspices of Wom
ens Guild, Mr. John L Elliott, 
alumni executive secretary, had 
a cast made of a new ring.
The ring is a miniature com
pared to those used here in pre
vious years. It answers the ap
peal for a ring better proportioned 
to womens hands.
They can be seen and ordered 
in Mr. Elliotts office after May 1. dormitories.
Girls Honor 
Mothers With 
Open House
Mothers will be the honored 
guests at the Morewood Gardens 
Open House , this Sunday. The 
open house, which has been pre
pared to observe Mothers Day, 
will be held from three to five.
All students, faculty, school 
personnel, and families of students 
are invited to view the womens
ty1_'qG .T.l
</&&& youfc i>l/EC
Luckies fine tobacco picks you up when youre mild, ripe, light tobacco. No wonder more indepenlow ... calms you down when youre tenseputs dent tobacco expertsauctioneers, buyers and wareyou on the Lucky level! Thats why its so important housemensmoke Luckies regularly than the next two 
to remember that NEGIS TAUOIF HFLY, COYF PB.LGGB leading brands combined! Get a carton of Luckies today!
.S./MF.Tlacfy $tuke Meant Ftne 7c6acca
So round, so firm, so fully packedso free and easy on the draw
n,, TNI AKCMICAM TOBACCO COMPAMV

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, MAY 4, 1949THE CARNEGIE TARTAN7
The Carnegie Plaid
Page edited by Evening School Students of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology
Co-editors .......................... Robert Ellstrom, Frank Mihelicb
Associate Editor........................................... Raymond Schwalni
Circulation Manager ........................................ George Dawes
Staff
George Bogovich, James Flaherty, Cecille Zellner
Editorial *
For Safety And Convenience
Many students, both day and evening, have approached 
your editor to see what could be done about a situation which 
has long annoyed those who regularly use the Carnegie Union 
as a meeting place. We have deeided to go out on a limb to 
advocate the paving of the driveway leading to the Union, 
or as an alternative, constructing a sidewalk from the front 
of the Union to Beeler street.
Evening students in the past were able to promote the 
erection of the shelters at the Morewood street entrance to the 
'cut for the convenience of commuters and the project which 
we now bring forth seems a worthy successor. Anyone who 
has ever found it necessary to walk from Beeler street at 
night or during a storm will readily see the need for some 
sort of a walkway for pedestrians. The roadway is full of haz
ards for the incautious or unfamiliar traveler. There are loose 
stones, protruding rocks, and rain-washed gullies whieh make 
the going quite difficult.
It is probably felt that the walk from Forbes street is suf
ficient, but there are many street car and bus riders, as well 
as others, who prefer to use the other entrance. It seems a 
shame that so distinguished a building should be marred by 
its unsightly driveway.
We call upon the students and administration to find
some solution to this problem. This is probably a bad time to
begin such a drive considering the imminence of the close of
the school year and the building program which is now in 
effect on campu&. We feel, however, that the low cost of a 
walkway could be easily met even by popular subscriptions as 
was for the Morewood shelters. Get behind this drive and make 
the Carnegie Union a better meeting plac.
-if "t"Io i 
oIzI Sif
If Youre Particular, See theTECH BARBER SHOP
Corner of Craig and Forbes
FRAZER PROCESS '
SPECIALIZED HAIR REMOVING BY 
LICENSED ELECTROLOGIST
5737 Darlington Road 
JAckson 5775 >
Serving Coca-Cola 
Serves Hospitality
Plus lf5 
State Tax
Ask Jor it either way ... both 
trade-marks mtart the same thing.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY 
COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO. OF PA.. PITTSBURGH, PA.
 1949,Th* Coca-Cdo Company
NewsAnd
Views
Now that the Engineers 34th 
annual banquet is successfully 
past, we can turn our thoufhts to 
the evening Student Council 
Swim-Dance that is next on the 
social calendar.
This affair is to be held Satur
day, May 7. The swim begins at 
7:30 and the dancing will start at 
9:00. To assure a successful affair 
hard working Social Chairman 
Ray Schwalm has sent postal 
cards to all evening students giv
ing all the particulars concerning 
this social event. We might add 
that there will be no tickets sold 
sc a donation of fifty cents per 
person will be accepted at the 
door.
We always like to use the me
dium of this column to mention 
the success of former evening stu
dents, and it is especially gratify
ing to mention that Rosemary C. 
Eckles, former council member 
and Plaid Associate Editor, has 
been awarded a scholarship at the 
University of Pittsburgh. Rose
mary left our school for our 
friends across the way a year or 
so ago, and already has establish
ed herself as an honor student.
Our hurrahs this week go to
Spring Carnival is Coming!!
3 HR. DRY (LEANING SERVICE
Let VS help you make THIS Spring 
Carnival more enjoyable for you.
Evening School Council 
Elects New Officers
Michael Gittens Named President; 
George Dawes Vice-President
The important business of the May meeting of Evening Student 
Council was the election of officers for the coming school year. 
Michael Gittens, this years treasurer, was elected president, and 
George Dawes, vice-president. The post of secretary was returned to 
Patricia Schaffer, and Byron May was made treasurer. The group
? qlso approved the following ap
pointments: John Miller, social
chairman; Leroy Rowland, assist
ant social chairman in charge of 
publicity; Anthony Miscimarra, 
assistant social chairman; George 
Schussler and Robert Ellstrom, 
Plaid co-editors; Anthony Barbarino, circulation manager; Rich
ard Van Helinger, assistant cir
culation manager.
Byron May reported that the 
lowest bid received for the eve
ning school handbook was $375 
from the Keystone Press. Mr. May 
stated that the material will go to 
the printer on June 1 assuring 
early delivery o fthe books. The 
group took action on a proposal 
tabled from the last meeting to 
change the bank account from the 
Mellon bank to the Peoples First 
National upon the recommenda
tion of Michael Gittens, treasurer.
June 12 was chosen as the date 
for the annual workers picnic 
which is open to all who have 
worked for student council.
none others than Dick Van Halanger and Tony Barbarino for their 
great work in piloting the Engi
neers Banquet to its great suc
cess. A task such as this entails 
plenty of hard work and many 
worries, and these fellows unsel
fishly devoted much of their en
ergy and time so that fellow stu
dents and guests could enjoy an 
evening of fun and fellowship.
We have a new instructor in 
our midst, and a hellos in order 
from the Plaid and evening Stu
dent Council. James L. Colbert, 
Pittsburgh and New York indus
trial relations consultant, has been 
appointed instructor in business 
law in the evening classes at CIT.
Carl Matthes is a bit reluctant 
to go to the Swim-Dance, for 
hes afraid his wife will attract 
too much attention away from 
him. According to the records she 
was a professional swimmer and 
still hasnt lost her touch.
QUICK ROUGH DRY LAUNDRY SERVICE
wtvfo wgItsIo
4609 Forbes StreetMUseum 1288
SPALDING
Carnival Tickets
The Spring Carnival commit
tee has announced that tickets 
for its dances are available in 
Mr. McKelways office, III 132- 
B. These tickets are for evening 
school students only and the 
price is $4.75 per couple.
" As in the past Scotch and 
Soda will sell tickets for its 
production Molecule Man on 
Friday evening in the foyer of 
the Administration building for 
the convenience of those even
ing students who want to see the 
show.
yysN
ThrilTiPahcUTTiBIUJOHNSTON
WEIGHED
0HLY120L8S.
BOTAIS 
FOREHAHD 
WAS CALLED 
THE BEST 1M 
THE GAUE
wptvyisopyv 
Issyo ryso
The Wright & D it son and Its 
twin the Spalding Tennis Ball 
lead the field in official adop* 
tions .for Major Tournament8, 
including the U.S. Davis Cap 
and National Championships.
SPALVtNG
sers rug Plaa nn ePrOfe
'Ulnare/ Studio  
Fine Portraitures
Application prints and 
photostats in a burry
MUseum 0314
3919 Forbes Street
(Corner Atwood) Room 41ft
RODGERS
DAIRY
um A$u
pt"fNIo
1/n !q'4 EE% c$un WnnL 
fj oj NAYnu_On_' q_RcnG'n/
LARGE MILK SHAKES
1/n !q'4 c$un !4AKn 
OqKV
RODGERS
Dairy Stores
.UEk -i"Io oII 
sn1u "AB$n'
l,U wIsI tzIsfI 
sn1u wu1q8
kll rtgsf oII 
o41/mRq/n
Other stores /A!_'A!_

---------------------------------------------------

THAN ANY
ByTSiest national survey
otysN ys
ONE LAST FLING
t rtsI "ioj vihfwyis
mr row
-Au On '4nun0R A_Km A_n 
eiaarette thats reallv Milder
Xi
THE CARNEGIE TARTAN . WEDNESDAY, MAY 4, 1949
The Bulletin Board
include Dolores Klester, president, 
Delta Delta Delta; Dorothy Kaye, 
vice president, Alpha Epsilon Phi; 
Toni Landergott, secretary, Chi 
Omega; and Donna Durin, treas
urer, Delta Gamma.
First Officers Elected 
"m Newman Club
William J. Cotter, junior arch
itect who was instrumental in or
ganizing the Carnegie Tech chap
ter of the Newman Club, was 
elected its first president at a 
meeting last Thursday.
Other officers elected at this 
time were Michael Melnichak, vice 
president; Betty Lou Crozier, re
cording secretary; Shelia OFriel, 
corresponding secretary; Carl 
Meyer, treasurer; and Edward 
Preskar, sergeant-at-arms.
At the close of the meeting, 
President Cotter cautioned all 
members that they must present 
their membership cards in order 
to vote in the Federation elec
tion at the communion breakfast 
on May 15.
More Carnival Plans Announced
[Continved from page I] 
the same time calls will be made 
by five activities honoraries, and 
the Tartan will make its awards 
to the outstanding intramural and 
varsity athletes of the year.
Biggest Midway 
But the real action of the Car
nival will not be limited to these 
functions. When the midway 
opens on Thursday afternoon CIT 
will be treated to the biggest mid
way yet seen at a Carnival here.
In addition to the 24 booths 
which campus organizations will 
be operating will be the five mid
way rides, the ferris wheel, mer
ry-go-round, Octopus, Loop-oplane, and one other yet to be 
selected. *
.. New Booths 
There will be two new booths 
this year, a miniature golf couP6e 
and a shooting range.
Not until the coronation on Fri
day afternoon at 1:00 in the Syl
van theatre will the announce
ment be made of which of the 
Carnival Court beauties is be 
the Queen. The names of the 
members of the Court are an
nounced elsewhere in this issue.
Bill Putch and Dick Riebling, 
co-authors of Scotch and Sodas 
Molecule Man are writing the 
script of the show to be put on 
during, the coronation proceed
ings.
Call Day Change
Just one more change.
"The last change in the time 
of the spring calls for a number 
of campus organizations has 
been made. Instead of being 
made on the Tuesday following 
Carnival, the calls for ODK, 
Mortar Board, Delta Skull, 
Scimitar, and Cwens will be 
made at intermission of the Car
nival dance on Saturday night, 
May 14.
/oIf syCh Chr /oI tCaef yp wo--soov apv syCh io--rcrf Coon
Toknon To Conclude Year 
With Picnic On May 4
After holding its last meeting on 
May 4, Technon is concluding this 
years program with a picnic on 
May 7. To be held at Silent Brook 
Lodge in South Park, the outing 
will continue through the after
noon and evening.
Bus transportation will be pro
vided. Anyone interested should 
contact Nancy Anderson, Bill Kail, 
or John Tallmadge.
MlT Professor To Give 
Series Of Lectures
Professor Norbert Wiener of 
Massachusetts Institute of Tech
nology, the visiting lecturer in 
mathematics this week, will pre
sent a series of lectures on The 
Extrapolation, Interpolation, and 
Smoothing of Stationary Time Se
ries with Engineering Applica
tions. These lectures are open to 
all interested faculty and students.
Tri Delts Offer 
Two Scholarships
The Delta Delta Delta sorority 
is offering scholarships this year 
to two women students in need of 
financial aid. Besides having a 
need for the scholarship, the ap
plicant must have a factor of 2.75 
or above. Application blanks are 
now available in the Dean of 
Womens office, and must be re
turned by May 30.
Each scholarship consists of 
$100 from a fund set aside by the 
local chapter.
These scholarships do not nec
essarily go to members of the so
rority. They are available to any 
interested woman student who 
meets the above requirements.
Panhellenic Council 
Announces New Officers
Panhellenic council elected their 
officers for the coming year on 
Tuesday, April 26. New officers
Copyrighr 1949. LwnT tt My Tomoco Co.
