Due to the Thanksgiving 
recess there will be no TAR
TAN next Tuesday.<Hic Carnegie ctaiimi
Vol. 35 No. 11
Institute Celebrates 
Birthday of Founder
Tau Delta Phi President Doherty,
Wins Scholarship Charles Wilson
Cup Permanently Address Assembly
For the first time since the Phi This morning at 11 oclock, CarKappa Phi Scholarship Cup has negie Tech continued the tradibeen awarded, a fraternity will *ion paying respects to its
retain possession of it. Tau Delta founder, Andrew Carnegie. ScholPhi, winner for the third succes- arship holders, members of the
sive time with a factor of 2.293, faculty and administration atautomatically becomes the perma- tended the 28th consecutive obnent owner of the cup. servance of Carnegie Day held in
o .  , j -o , Carnegie Music Hall.Running a close second, Beta iu  -n Vo l0.___ T,, ... , . , 000 After the invocation, PresidentSigma Rho, with a factor of 2.282,  , ,- ^ t * o . o xi.
was eleven thousands of a poini Hobert 0herty thebehind the leader. main address on Complacency
and Confusion. Mr. Wilson 09 
Winner of the mens dormitory electrical- engineer, offered greetcup for the third successive year, ings from the alumni.
Henderson Hall, with a factor of . Music during the program was
2.425, held a slight margin over played by the student orchestra
Boss Hall which was second with under the direction of J. V.
2.344. However, the mens dormi- OBrien. In addition, scholartory cup does not remain in per- ships for the year were announced
manent possession of any dormi- ancj the fraternity, sorority, mens
*ory- dormitory., and womens dormiAlpha Kappa Psi has moved tory having the highest collective
into the first rank among the sor- factor for the year were awarded
orities with a factor of 2.505. trophies.
Hawthorne Hall enjoyed a com- The R. O. T. C. presented the
fortable lead over Forbes Hall Scabbard and Blade cup to the
with a 2.650 factor. The Forbes company excelling in last springs
Hall factor was 2.448. drill. Three honorary fraternities,
President Doherty presented the -Phi Kappa Phi, Tau Beta Pi, and
Scabbard and Blade Cup to Cadet Eta Kappa Nu made calls during
Captain Allen K. Fink 41, pres- the exercises. The list of calls
ent commander of Company B, will be found elsewhere on this
which won the award for ex- Page.
cellence in drilling last spring. , ^ -ir-% ^ t -
The organizations and their 1 lllKllllff Ivliy tlllll
factors are as follows: T -*-* 
Fraternities IS 1 lllStlC >01X11(1
Tau Delta Phi ................................2.293 Beaus, bring your belles, andBeta Sigma Rho ...........................2.282 . , ,. Delta Upsiion ................................2.231 belles, bring your beausdid you
2?eta 3 ' W ,;...................forget?theres the Jingle BellesSigma Alpha Epsilon......................2.046   . .  ...Pi Kappa Alpha .............................1.982 Ball coming next Friday night,
Teta Jf1 ..................................1-972 December 6! Bill LeRoy and hisAlpha Tau Omega ............................1.9G7 , .V5N n i> -n iDelta Tnu Delta .............................1.845 Tinkling Rhythm will play
i*?pA sigma ................................1.7G1 from 9 to 1 in Thistle Hall.
 "w V r\......-V 'it........1 574 rhe idea is the same as lastomen s ormi ones years. The various organizations
,T on campus will sponsor boothsHawthorn Hall ..............................2.650 , . , . ...Forbes Hail ................ ..................2.448 which will contain everything
Whitfield Han ................................2.398 from soup to nutsice cream, popMellon Hall ...................................2.299 ... . , , J,,Cypress Hail ..................................2.297 corn, candied apples, etc. There
?dLr ...................................2 252 be a bowling booth, and slingBirch Hall .....................................2.133 , ,. . ,, . ,  , .Laurel Hail ...................................1.894 shooting, mistletoe and gardenias,
Sororities and a fish Pond of grab bag full
Alpha Kappa Psi .............................2.505 oI surprises ol which Dorm CounAlpha Thcta Sigma .......................2.491 cil is in charge.
GSmJn&nmm^Gimma.:::::::::::^ The proceeds from the dance
Gamma Phi Sigma.........................2.386 will be put into a fund from
BetaPapfh!.D.cUa ....................2 217 which the Womens-Guild awards
Mens Dormitories......... scholarships to needy and worthy
Henderson Hall ...............................2.425 Students.
Boss Hall ....................................2.344 Admission is $1.25 per couple,
Welch1 HaU. ...................................149 and girls skirts and sweaters are
scobeii Haii !21Frt the thing.
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 26, 1940
Norman Dawes
Honorary Calls
Phi Kappa Phi 
National Scholastic Honorary
College of Engineering 
Richard T. Clement 
Edward L. Kaplan 
Irvin Broverman 
Millard L. Levy 
Bernard B. Winer 
Edward H. Mellinger 
John R. Huffman 
Lawrence R. Greenhaus 
Ralph B. Martin 
George T. Fouse 
Robert M. Wolff 
Edward J. Boyle 
James B. Sions 
Robert Flaherty 
Edgar E. Clarke 
Irvin J. Bonn 
William E. Osborn 
Daniel S. Maisel 
Harry A. Claypool 
James L. Pendleton 
Walter E. Stuermann
College of Fine Arts 
Frances Coon 
William C. Libby 
Charles Eugene Spry 
Helene B. Jaffin 
Milton A. Shapiro 
Ruth A. Seifert 
Dorothy D. Hultz
Margaret Morrison College 
ZeIda Gutmacher 
Eleanor V. Asp 
Jeanne Fox 
Maita R. Sivitz 
Janet M. Mowery 
Anna M. Menzenmaier 
Helen I. Gillis
Martha R. Chersky 
Janet A. Phillips 
Helen L. Zimmerman 
Loraine Elder 
Harriette J. Luckhardt 
Faculty 
Dr. R. F. Mehl 
Dr. D. F. Miner 
George Westinghouse 
Dr. S. W. Chapman 
Dr. H. L. Spencer 
Jeanne C. Hartman
Tau Beta Pi 
National Engineering Honorary 
Seniors
Lester Cullen 
Harry Claypool 
Harold Farquahar 
Kenneth Fink 
William Froelich 
Gilbert McElwee 
William Osbum 
William Weil 
Grant Wilson 
Bernard Winer 
Robert Wolff
Juniors 
Arthur Handlos 
Robert McBride 
Robert Beck
Eta Kappa Nu 
National Electrical Engineering 
Honorary 
Bob Gilliland 
Louis Hauser 
A1 Kritscher 
Robert Span 
Eddie Smuckler 
DeForrest Trautman 
Ted Ebert
This morning at the twenty-eighth annual Carnegie Day ex
ercises, the three honorary fraternities having the Ingest average 
factors made their calls.
Leading all of the honoraries was Phi Kappa Phi with a 
factor of 3.264, Tau Beta Pi secured the second position by a 
factor of 3.264, third place going to Eta Kappa Nu, its factor be,ing 3.064.
Vol.3. 5N 1F rthl5tefte
Sn S Gives 
Quiz Program
A week from today, the Scotch 
and Soda Clubs quizzical assem
bly program, in the Fine Arts 
Theatre, at 11:30, wall bring Nor
man Dawes, the super-Fadiman, 
before the student body in a new 
capacitythat of master of cere
monies in the newest campus quiz 
program.
As a matter of fact, it will also 
bring five other faculty mem
bers to the students in a new ca
pacity  Professors. Alemany, 
Geoghegan, Mehl, and Schoen. 
and Coach Maxie I-Iannum, are 
going to take the stand to prove 
how many student-devised ques
tions they can aswer. Students 
are asked to bring any questions 
they may have to the Carnegie 
Post Offiffice as soon as possible.
The Scotch and Soda Club is 
the Tech organization which puts 
on the annual spring musical re
vue. Next springs show, Here's 
to You, needs skit scripts . now, 
and everyone is asked to get to 
work on what ideas they can 
dream up. For more details about 
the requirements of the scripts, 
ask one of the Scotch and Soda 
members at next Tuesdays as
sembly.
Tech Organizes 
Personnel Bureau 
To Aid Students
By Barbara Kramer
As was announced last week, 
a Bureau of Measurement and 
Guidance which is a branch of the 
Director of Student Personnel, has 
been created under Dr. Dohertys 
reorganization plan. This Bureau 
and the office of Counsellor for 
Financial Aid are the only new 
departments that have been cre
ated under the plan. Included in 
the staff are Dr. Laurence Shaffer, 
Head of the Bureau; Dr. Robert 
G. Simpson, Director of the Read
ing Laboratory; Dr. Richard F. 
Martin,- Director of the Counsel
ling Service. These men will at
tempt to promote achievement 
and educational adjustment of 
students by use of techniques of 
educational measurements, guid
ance, and remedial training, coor
dinated with similar programs at 
other schools and professional so
cieties.
There are four functions that 
the Bureau executes, two of wh:ch 
are of indirect value to the stu
dents: The first two are: (1) the 
Reading Laboraory, which gives 
training to students whose skill 
in reading is inadequate to the 
demands of college, and (2). as
sistance to mentors and advisors 
in counselling with students on 
individual education problems. 
The second fucnction is in re
sponse to  students demands, led 
by the Editors of the 1933-34 
TARTAN.
Those functions which are of 
importance to the faculty include:
(3) measurement, which includes 
general educational tests to report 
to the faculty and assists the fac
ulty in the effective use of results;
(4) research and coordination, 
which will carry out research on 
the work of the Bureau, construc
tion and improvement of tests, 
studies oi the values of tests, and 
improvement of the counselling 
and remedial training, plus coor
dination with similar programs 
at other schools and with profes
sional societies.
Council Okays Students, Faculty Mourn 
Treas. Salary ] )eatll Gf Dr. R. M. Ihrig
In one oi the most dynamic 
meetings of the . year, Student 
Council finally approved the sal
ary of the treasurer, Mr. McGarvey, and the secretary, Miss Sally 
Williams. Before the vote was 
taken on the salaries of the offic
ers, however, Mr. Cullen moved 
that the sale of tickets for Spring 
Carnival be limited so that no stu
dent be permitted to purchase a 
block of more than four tickets. 
After some debate on the motion, 
Mr. Cullen agreed to a compromise 
of six tickets and, in this form, 
the motion was carried.
But the old business was the 
vital interest of the evening. 
When the motion to approve the 
salaries of the secretary and the 
treasurer was reopened, Mr. Horigan asked that the motion be 
split since the argument about it 
concerned only the treasurers sal
ary. His suggestion was acted up
on. Since discussion upon the mo
tion had been complete the week 
before, the vote was called.
When a show of hands on the 
vote was called, Miss Williams 
found that there were nine votes 
for the affirmative: Wesley Dorsheimer, Thomas Durbin, Patty 
Haislip, Einar Jacobson, Janet Sto
ver, Margaret Sullivan, Charles 
Lange, Sally Williams, and James 
Wills. For the negative, there 
were also nine votes: Alfred Feiler, Helen Gillis, William Heil
man, Arleigh Heifer, Daniel I-Iorigan, Lester Cullen, Barbara 
Kramer, Paul Loveday, and James 
Sions. Mr. McGarvey was not al
lowed to vote because the issue 
involved was a pecuniary one. 
Since the vote was tied, the presi
dent, Mr. Floyd, cast the deciding 
vote, which was for the affirma
tive side. The secretarys salary 
was then approved without fur
ther discussion.
When new business was called 
for,, Sylvia Slavkin, a member of 
the TARTAN staff, presented two 
petitions. The first consisted of 
two resolutions: (1) that all req
uisitions be signed by the Editorin-Chief and by the Business 
Manager, and (2) that the salary 
of the Feature Editor be increasContinued on page 4
Tiny Tots Toddle 
To Class; Taught 
By New Theories
In the Home Management House 
near the Grill, there is a miniature 
classroom furnished with wee ta
bles and chairs and lined with low 
shelves. The lockers in the cloak
room are only 36 inches high, and 
the hangers in the lockers are de
signed for very tiny coats. Here, 
Miss Helen Ford, a Carnegie grad
uate and new full-time staff mem
ber of the Department of House
hold Economics conducts the new
ly-established Nursery School.
It has been said that most chil
dren spend their childhood among 
the chair legs. Not so thdtots in 
Nursery School who have their 
own little world built to scale for 
them. Here, they develop social
ly through play with other chil
dren of their own age; their toys 
and activities improve their motile 
skills and help them gain inde
pendence. Miss Ford, who is in 
constant attendance, teaches by 
suggestion rather than direction, 
so that the atmosphere of the class 
is not at all academic. Any in
dividual between the ages of two 
and four years may enroll.
In Nursery School cooperation 
approaches the ideal. Parents and 
teachers hold informal confer
ences, and all work for the best in
terests of the child.
Miss Harriet F. Glendon, Head 
of the Department of Household 
Economics, has long considered es
tablishing such a school. Now, it 
is an accomplished fact. Stu
dents in the field of Home Eco
nomics are permited to visit and 
observe, but only Miss Ford, who 
is competently trained in Child 
Guidance, works directly with the 
children. Later, when the school 
has been expanded, those students 
who have enough background in 
the work, will assist her.
ftoscoc M. Ihrig
Charles Wilson 
Elected Member 
Of Tau Beta Pi
Yesterday at noon, Charles E. 
Wilson, who as acting president 
of General Motors Corporation is 
directing one of the most ex
tensive defense manufacturing 
efforts in the country, was in
itiated into Tau Beta Pi, nation
al engineering honorary.
Following the formal initiation, 
a luncheon was held for Mr. Wil
son by the active members and 
the faculty of Tau Beta Pi. Ralph
B. Martin 41, President of the 
Carnegie chapter, was chairman 
of both events which took place 
at the Student Union.
Today, immediately following 
the Carnegie Day exercises, Mr. 
Wilson is being installed as mem
ber of Gamma Iota Chapter of 
Beta Theta Pi at a formal cere
mony. Mr. Wilson in his under
graduate days was associated 
with Sigma Rho, the local before 
National Beta Theta Pi had been 
established.
Besides peacetime activities, 
Mr. Wilson is in charge of GMCs 
manufacture of Allison liquidcooled airplane engines for the 
American and British armies,
His subject at the banquet, 
sponsored by the Pittsburgh 
Mens Clan of the Carnegie Tech 
Alumni Federation, is Some Un
known Factors in. Our Defense 
Material Program. Mr. Wilson 
will be the honored guest of the 
alumni at the banquet.
Tech SIii[Mils
BSIect T. Horsey
Last weeks election by the 
Tech students showed that Tom
my Dorsey was selected by an 
overwhelming majority to play 
at the annual Spring Carnival.
Kay Kyser and Fred Waring 
were the students second and 
third choices. If the carnival com
mittee is unable to secure Tom
my Dorsey, who did play on 
campus 3 years ago, an attempt 
will be made to obtain either Fred 
.Waring or Kay Kyser.
Freshman W. A. A. representa
tives were also chosen. Jane Musser was selected from Margaret 
Morrison and Janet Truter from 
Fine Arts.
Lt. Layton Succeeds 
Captain Cleaves
Captain Cleaves of the Military 
Department has been ordered to 
Boston where he will assume his 
duties as instructor of the Massa
chusetts National Guard. lie and 
his family will leave for Boston 
on November 25 to take up resi
dence there.
Captain Cleaves has been at 
Carnegie for the past five years 
as Signal Corps instructor. Twice 
last, year he was ordered to leave, 
once for Fort Sam Houston, Tex
as, and again to the Panama Can
al Zone, but each time the order 
was revoked.
Captain Cleaves successor is 
First Lt. James H. Layton, Jr., 
Signal Reserve, a graduate of C.
I. T. in 1938. He had a year of 
active duty in the regular army 
during 1938-39, and since that 
time has been employed by the 
Socony-Vaeuum Oil Co.
Director of General 
Studies llad Served 
Tech Since 1915
Funeral services for Dr. Roscoe Myrl Ihrig, Director of the 
Division of General Studies and 
of Evening Courses at Carnegie 
Tech, were held last Sunday eve
ning at the first Unitarian 
Church, More wood and Ellsworth 
Aves, at 4:00. Dr. Ihrig died 
last Friday evening at the Pre?rr 
byterian Hospital after a week's 
illness.
He was 59 years old and had 
served in many capacities at Tech 
since 1915. A native of Wooster, 
Ohio, Dr. Ihrig graduated from 
the college of the same name 
in 1901; taught in the secondary 
schools in Genescoe and Danville, 
111.; in the Franklin School loi' 
Boys in Cincinnati, Ohio; and 
later, after teaching at his Alma 
Mater too, he received a teaching 
fellowship to the University of 
Chicago, where he took his Ph.M. 
and Ph.D. degrees.
In 1915 Dr. Ihrig came to the In
stitute as assistant professor of 
languages, and in 1918 became  
proressor and head of the language 
department. Since then he had 
served as director of the Summer 
Session, Director or Night anti 
Part Time Classes, and Dean Af 
Freshmen in the Cllege of En
gineering. He served in the lat
ter capacity until this fall,, who) 
the Mentor System eliminated his 
services in that fiold. Mo became 
Director of the Division o General 
Studies in 1926.
A noted educator and student of 
philolgy, he was the author o 
two textbooks: Exorcises in Selentiflc German and Word For
mation and Syntax. He was ac
tive in the Association of Urban 
Universities, which he was cur
rently serving as aeqi'etary-trcaourer. At Tech he was serving on 
the Executive Board, the Educa
tional Senate, and as chairman of 
the Committee on Calendars and 
Schedules. Dr. Ihrig was a mem
ber of the Pittsburgh Philosophical 
Society and the Agara, ol! Phi Beta 
Kappa, of Phi Kappa Phi, scho
lastic honorary fraternity, and of 
Sigma Alpha Epison, social fra
ternity. It is interesting to notp 
that he was such a thorough stii-.  
dent of languages that he could 
tell at a glance the origin of a 
word or name.
Dr. Ihrig is survived by his 
wife, and two brothers and a 
sister, i-lis body will be interred 
later at his home in Wooster, Ohi<!>.
Bard Calls!
Ambitions Writers 
Asked to Contribute
Are you an undiscovered. 
Shakespeare? Do you get Fs on 
your themes because the teaclierjust cant appreciate your unique 
style? If so, Alpha Chi Alpha' 
and Pi Delta Epsilon will give, 
you your chance in the Bard, 
which will be published in the' 
spring.
For the past two years, these 
honorary literary organizations 
have sponsored this publication 
for ambitious poets, playwrights, 
essayists, and the like. The ar
ticles that are accepted are print
ed in the Bard, just as they are 
handed in. If, by some miracle, a 
sensational inspiration should 
disturb your afternoon siesta soon, 
jot it down. Who knows, you 
might gain world-wide (or, at 
least, Tech-wide) fame. Should 
the Muse visit you, bring your 
brain-child to the Postoffice Box 
409, emmediately.
On The I&ecord J
Tuesday, December 3 
12:30Room 157, Arts. Mr. 
Charles A. II. Pearson will direct 
this recital.
Third Symphony in C____Sibelius
Tone Poem, Tapiola..........Sibelius
Thursday, December 5 
12:30Room 157, Arts. Dr. 
Frederick- Dorian will be in charge 
of this recital.
String Quartet in C........Schubert
Leider .......................... Hugo Wolf

---------------------------------------------------

THJ UAKjNJGlE TAKT ANTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 26, 1940
May Thor; Be 
More Uke Him
With the [passing of Dr. lloscoe M. Ihrig the student body lias 
lost a friend who always regarded the welfare and the problems 
of the student as more important than the formality of adminis
trative red tape, lie was one oJ; the few who thought that an 
engineering school ought to provide its students with more than 
imply the tools of their trade. He was a great educator, and 
'1*0eh will miss him.
: ! It is hard for us 1o believe that he is gone. It is asking much 
when we say, May there be others like him.
lisaiik'isiaiiii's I'liaiily 
Does Not Ilegiii atf Home
On Fifth Avenue in downtown Pittsburgh walk dozens of 
young men and young women carrying signs proclaiming that 
.Kaufmanns is on strike. In front of the warehouses walk 
; others, carrying the same message. Carrying it twenty-four hours 
. .a day, through rain and cold. With them walk men carrying signs 
which read Committee ol: Catholic Trade Unionists endorse this 
strike.
The biggest department store in Pittsburgh is on strike. Four 
. hundred men and women have been forced to brave hunger and 
old because one of Pittsburghs greatest philanthropists re..fuses to give his workers a living wage.
The biggest department store in Pittsburgh is on strike. But 
the local newspapers are dcai! and dumb. The editors know which 
side signs the checks for advertising. Whether it is a boy being 
' killed in a faulty elevator or four hundred people striking for a 
" living wage, it matters little. The advertiser can do no wrong.
The biggest department store in Pittsburgh is on strike. The 
.police department watches for every opportunity to show its un. .friendliness to the strikers. Mr. Edgar Kaul'mann and Mr. Oliver 
...Kaul'mann each contributed live thousand dollars to the Demo
cratic campaign. To a political administration ten thousand dollars speaks louder than a demand for honest wages.
The biggest department store in Pittsburgh is on strike. And 
the work ol! 18-dollar-a-week wrappers, is being done by execu
tives and all the store-workers who can be threatened into helping 
. starve their friends into submission. Those who consider their 
. conscience lose their jobs. Four people have already been fired 
.. for refusing to stay after hours to scab on their friends. A
 ..doorman, who last year was voted by the employes as the most
 -.popular in the store, has been forced to resign because lie refused 
-;<to scab. The ..boss refuses even to negotiate with the union. He 
' ' looks out of the window at the pickets walking in the rain and
 says, Let them stay out there. When theyre hungry enough 
theyll come back on our terms. But there are stronger wills. 
...The furriers and the alteration workers have gone out 011 a sympa
thy strike.
The biggest department store in Pittsburgh is 011 strike. And 
what.are they asking for, these people who have the temerity to 
 challenge Pittsburghs greatest philanthropist? What can they 
'want that is too much for this man with a heari of,gold to 
' grant?
They are wrappers who earn 18 dollars a week and are asking 
,, for two and a, halt' dollars more. They are packers and collectors
 and stockmen and freight, elevator operators who earn an average
 of twenty dollars a week and are asking for two and a half dollars 
'more. Kaul'mann\s made twenty-five per cent more profit in the
first six months of 1940 than in the same period last year. They 
are only asking that two and a half dollars a week of that be 
passed on to them.
They >ire asking that housewives consider them by refusing 
to patronize Kaufmanns department store for a few days. A 
decrease in sales might convince Messers Kaulmann that they are 
not God.
Kaufmanns is not content with refusing to negotiate, with 
preventing' newspaper publicity, with blackmailing other em
ployees into Scabbing. They go further. They deliberately mis
represent the demands ol' the union. They have falsely stated that 
the wrappers are being paid twenty-two fifty per week and are 
demanding thirty-five.
Philanthropists are peculiar people. They will starve their 
employees to get money to endow a soup kitchen to feed other 
starving people. Somehow there doesnt scm to be much glory 
or immortal il.v in paying your workers a decent wage.
Letter to the Editor ...
To the 'editor:
If you have a squawk 
Bring it to us 
Well have a talk 
And make a fuss!
Today we hear much concern
ing the Sugar Bowl, the Rose 
Bowl and the Orange Bowl, *but 
no account of the recent epic con
test in the local Gravy Bowl has 
as yet appeared. Just one of the 
many exciting episodes which oc
curred in the course of the game 
is recounted below.
The game is almost over and 
a tense situation has developed. 
The score is 9 to 9, in the struggle 
between the Independents and the 
Big Combine. Captain Bloyd is 
about to kick the point after 
touchdown. Will he make it? He 
kicks. The ball goes straight and 
true between the uprights, and 
the Big Combine wins again 10 . 
 to 9; McGravey walking off with 
first prize money of $500.00.
Captain Bloyd was still breath
ing hard when asked to comment 
on the game. He said, I thought 
our team was licked for a while 
when McGravey was declared in
eligible, but when Sully showed 
up I knew the swag was in the 
bag. Oops! I mean the game was 
won! ! Last week Hay Slip, Clov
er, Sully Van, and Will I. Ams 
were offsides when they voted to 
table the motion, but they came 
through with splendid team play 
tonight and clinched the contest. 
Dorslammer, Turbine, Slange, W.
Carnegie 3Tadmx
CurncKic InMtllulo of Tonlmoloiry, Schonloy Park, Pittsburgh, I*.PHONE MAYFLOWER 000 PHONE 8CHENLEY 1557
m:rnr.r>r,NTi;n row he.3Fhef AOVBfiTtniNa nv After Ofi'lCC HOUI'S Call
National Advertising Scrvicc, Inc. Editor-in-Clilef .... JAckson 4257
css Manner. .SChcnley 3111
i s333sesF  DoBTon  mFn ecFPfnn T geh ahes3nsF Advertising: Manager.. HAzel 3898
Entered its second-class mutter in the Pittsburgh Post Oillce under the Act of March 3, 187.
oi5smnltF cttPsN FiemTf nhl..s Ntgea thtk3 l.smFgNn gTF tg,mTg3m.T ktem.FnCSubscription Price S1.00 per year.
Editor-in-Chief ...............................................................Leonard Shatzkin
Business Manager...................................................................Herbert Reich
Managing Editor....................................................................Eleanor Oshry
.News Editor ........................................................................ Sylvia Slavkin
' Feature Editor ......................................................................... Miriam Rost
Sports Editor ........................................................................ William Floyd
Advertising Man ager.......................................................Harry Abramovitz
'Circulation Manager................................................................Irving Derfel
Staff Photographer .............................................................. Ed Rechberger
Sport Photographer ............................................................ Charles Vencil
Copy Editors.............................................'.Edythe Farbman, Ruth Brodie
 Secretary ...............................................................................Martha Chersky
BUSINESS STAFF: Sylvan Rosenfield, Dee Andella, Henry Rosenblum, Lionel Perrine, John Woodside, Robert Detwiler,' William 
R. Lloyd, Ted Burtis, Edward Fireman, Shirley Bernstein, David 
Moyer, Jack Fishlcin.
JUNIOR EDITORS: Phyllis Buchman, Paul Guinther, Gilbert Kivenson, William Mercier, Saul Moses, George Patrick, Stanley 
Rosecrans, Walter Stull, Jeanne Tislilarich, Barbara Kramer, 
Mercedes Cunningham.
SPORT STAFF: George Tondorf, Joe Thomas, Bob Cowie, Don
Watkins, Jim Geist.
REPORTERS: Don By rum, Margaret Carver, Ellen Cerveris, Leonard 
Chotiner, Robert Dixon, Patricia Elman, Walter Haller, Marianna 
Hogg, Jeanne King, Eva Rabban, Wallace Sadauslcas, Melvyn 
j Snyder, Arthur Uber, Margaret Goodman, Otto Krenn.
Ills, and Jakes Son played their 
usual flawless games. It was a 
splendid exhibition of cooperation 
and team spirit. Such a team cant 
be beaten, and I think we ought to 
go right on from the Gravy to the 
Rose Bowl.
Captain Cullen when interview
ed after the games said We 
havent won a game yet-, but they 
cant keep beating us by one vote 
I mean point forever. If our 
star, Jamison, had only been there 
we would have blocked that kick. 
Heilman played a good game at 
quarterback and called some 
good plays. Horigan and Feiler 
were two of the best guards Ive 
seen all year. Nothing got past 
them. Sions kept chasing the 
referee and did his best to see 
that it was a good clean amateur 
game. Loveday, Heifer, Gillis, 
and Kramer fought the whole way 
and still think we have the bet
ter team. Wait until next year 
when our lettermen, Wines and 
McBride, are in there fighting. 
We are going to have an unbeata
ble team.
This charming little account of 
the Student Council meeting 
serves only to show how the dif
ferent members voted on the is
sue of McGarveys salary. Why 
they voted in this way is what 
we would like to know. Ask 
them? They must have have had 
some reason.
(Signed) Cullen
McBride
Sions
. . Off The Cuff . .
Well, well! Imagine meeting us 
here! You see, when were away, 
you appreciate us more (or do 
you?).
Flash! Audrey Botkin has final
ly decided to settle down with 
one manDelt Phil Cochran. Dit
to Doris Keys and Bill Pierce and 
Mary Thel Carey and Rex Stev
enson. Now if Jean Ann Bradley 
would choose one to go steady 
with, the rest of our girls would 
be a lot happier.
Rudy Linder has been having a 
lot of trouble with those girls 
Who come around! Maybe they 
are spoiling his' chances with Dot 
Welsh.
We guess that Tistie Weaver 
was all excited about the Frat 
Dances last weekespecially at 
the Kappa Sig. house!
At last the Tech girls seem to 
be holding their own. Well, any
how, there were a lot of fellows 
who didnt go to that PCW formal 
when they coulda!
THEY MAKE THE NICEST 
COUPLE DEPT: Marie Sunseri 
and Chuck Nixon (Those blonds 
seem to be right ,up her alley!)
. . . Mary Zellers and Jim Dar
nell . . . Hal Dickson and the 
girl from home . . . Jimmy 
Sions and Joanne Tishlarich (need 
any more be said?)
Question of the week: Who is the 
Beta who tried to date Jane 
Swearer before she had ever seen 
himand just how flat did she 
turn him down?
Speaking of the Betasthey 
seem to have taken an option on 
the local pill emporium (hos
pital to the uninitiated).
Jack Loftus says that Betty 
Price is the Typical College Girl. 
We gather that he thinks shes 
purty nice!
Perfect Description: The Rover
Make Your 
Thanksgiving Vacation 
Last Longer
- KTp.e,g3m.T gTF rtnteSg3m.Tn u11 dbwr1y *C oDAA1ra u3iFtT3 
rtketntT3g3mSta vvv *.nn 2gssa .e 9gss AydV8rgT3 vjj 
MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMA21 rDHA1 DR A21 uArdADBKb1ru
TYPEWRITERS
for
RENT
V M0 $5 
First Rental Applies in 
Purchase
ROYAL
UNDERWOOD
CORONA
REMINGTON
TYPEWRITERS
for
SLE
NEW PORTABLES
ALL MAKES
oo r>er$iweek
Fort Pitt Typewriter Company
644 LIBERTY AVENUE ATlantle 8320
one of the girls
Meet Janie Ritenbaugh . . .
shes a peppy girl with curly red 
hair . . . Janes a very busy girl 
. . . heading her list of activities 
is Mortar Board ... of which
VuPt3hl 5N 1sm.3 ActeN 
shes President . . . is a member 
of Kappa Phi Delta . . . and Al
pha Chi Alpha . . . associate ed
itor of last years Thistle . . . 
Program Chairman of C. W. C. A.
Jane Ritenbaugh
Cabinet . . . lived in Squirrel
Hill all her life . . . spends her 
summers at Ocean City, N. J. . . . 
right now shes learning to cook 
.... for she expects to be mar
ried shortly after graduation in 
June . . . Herb is the fortunate 
man . . . shes taking Costume 
Ec. and shorthand just as she 
says, in case . . . but she says 
she not so good in the shorthand 
. . . like any color, as long as its 
green . . . apples and Frenchfried potatoes please her best in 
the way of things to eat . . . 
likes to dance, ice skate, play ten
nis, and read . . . Escape was 
one. of her favorite books this 
past year .. . . enjoys any good 
movie ... sees mostly mys
teries, because Herb likes to see 
them . . . one of her ambitions 
is to travel to Banff and Lake 
Louise . . . she cant exactly de
cide whether T. Dorsey or Glenn 
Miller is her favorite orchestra 
. . . shes sort of changing back 
to Tommy Dorsey now after pre
ferring Glenn Miller for awhile 
. . . she misses the .TARTAN 
every week because she isnt here 
on Tuesday . . . youve probably 
seen her eating in the Grill . . . 
shes a swell girl to know.
Boys at SeaMark Shoffner and 
Bob Schwerin. At least they al
ways wander around together 
with that lost expression!
Short StoryDoris Bickel got 
Bill' Thunhursts pinnow he has 
it,
What we would really like to 
know is: who was the person so 
anxious to see that a couple of 
items got in the column that he 
mailed them inanonymously!
Interesting combinations  Bill 
Lloyr and Ethel Levin, Doreen 
Barry and Frank Keck, Ruth 
Kwall and a Pitt Med, Peggy 
Nettleton and Frank Wimer, John 
Stevens, and most any redhead!
Del Damrau has the girls fall
ing for him nowliterally!
We now have a triple-threat 
girl' here at TECHRuth Hogg 
with a Theta Xi, Kappa Sig, and 
a PiKA on the string. Keep up 
the smooth work, Ruthie!
Joan Walker has a new nick
nameDynamite! At least she 
had, fun with those two men at 
Gettysburg last week-end.
Pudie Harding had two special 
delivery letters from her Duke 
halfback this week. Those foot
ball players sure are presistent.
The eternal triangle: Norma
Squitieri, Bob Beck, and Cy 
Herre. We hope Uiat Bob and 
Cys beautiful friendship wont 
be spoiled. Incidentally, who is 
it, Cy? Norma, Betty Lohr, Ruth 
Molvie, Lucille Schuster, or 
Shorty Campbell?
For a girl who left her heart 
at home when she came to Tech, 
Jean Grove has been seeing a lot 
of Bill Johnson. Maybs ishes 
allergic to feetball players.
A good example of absorption, 
concentration, and interest: Dick 
Kay from Pitt and Jean Kirk
wood, eating lunch together daily 
in the Grill.
STUDENTS!
WHEN IN TOWN
Brush-Up on Dancing
AT SPECIAL HOLIDAY RATES
DURING the holidays, as soon as you reach 
home, plan to visit the Arthur Murray Stu
dios and arrange for a few lessons. Youll enjoy 
learning the latest Rumba and Fox Trot steps. In 
just a few hours you'll surprise your partners with f). 
the thrilling new steps. Gain poise and.confidence, fi 
Special low rates are offered to all students! En
roll as soon as possible and be a good dancer in 
time for your next party. All lessons are transfer
able to any one of our studios from coast-to-coast 
at no extra cost. Lessons may also be used at 
resorts. Dont wait until the last minute.
ARTH U RJjjgMURRAY
Dance Studios from Coast-fo-Coast
dABdbAK9 9KA0 9s,sp.T3t2gFF.T 2gss*dBAK_Dr1CCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCC2.3ts *tsStFie.
*DuADbCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCC2.3ts u3g3s.e
C *rKw81oDrA CCCCC u3eg3FtsF 2.3ts
*HRRdBDCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCC2.3ts u3g3ste92drBDAA1 CCC v^vj 2geFmTf osgh.
C92K9d8D C 2.3ts wegPt x ^ smC ghPn.T
bt3ltesgTF osgg 2.3ts 
CCCC K.3.s u3g3ste 
C C C C *gPte 2.3ts
C C C C 2.3ts u3g3ste
2.3ts ui5ie5gT
9Kb9KbbdAK 
9B1W1Bdbw C 
wdBBdu C C C 
w1ArDKA C C 
1duAa Drdb812drARDrwCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCC*.TF 2.3ts
- 2DHuADb C C C CCC vj4^ ytn3 8egN Jdbudu 9KA0C _DC C C 4 *e.gFcgN 
BDu db81B1u C R.e,gT *sFfC g3 3sm x 2mss O*tStesN ,msnI C C 6^ bC *tStesN wesS.
_1_o2Ku C C C _KBydHJ11 C C
_Kbb1doDBKu C C
b1y 2dW1b C C 
b1y DrB1dbu C 
b1y 0DrJ C C C 
D_d2d C C C C 
o2KBdw1Bo2BW C 
oKAAu*Hr82 C C 
orDWKw1b91 C C 
uAC BDHKu C C C 
uAC odHB C C C 
udb Rrdb9Ku9D C u1dAAB1 C C C C
uKDHE RdBBu C C 
ADB1wD CCCC 
ydu2Kb8ADbC wC9C
C C C 2.3ts ohgscFN
C C C C 2.3ts dn3.e
C C C 2.3ts bmh.sst3
C C %C vj^j 9lgkts u3CC %C C r..ntSts3 2.3ts 
C C  1gn3 46eF u3ett3 
C C 2.3ts R.T3gTtsst 
*tsstSit u3eg3p.eF 2.3ts 
C 2.3ts ymssmg, otTT 
C oe.SC *ms3,.et 2.3ts 
C 4 R.enN3lt *sSFC
C C C u3C ogis 2.3ts
C C u3C RegThmn 2.3ts
C C C DsN,kmh 2.3ts
CCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCRsnP. *mFtC z
9.,,.F.et oteeN 2.3ts oll 
avvjv 9.TTC dS.C bCyC
There is something delightful about the clean, exhilarating 
taste of. ice-cold Coca-Cola.
I The minute it passes your lips 
you know it for what it is, 
pure, wholesome, delicious. 
And you welcome the refreshed 
feeling that follows.
^ A USE THT REFRESHES
Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Co. by
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY, PITTSBURGH, PA.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 26, 1940THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
Andrew Carnegie. Founder
I il Vt o l .  V  8b
By Ruth Brodie
You know how you'll suddenly run across an old acquaint
ance whom you havent seen for years, and, after you once have 
seen him, youll keep on seeing him, like about fifteen times in one 
day? Well, thats whats been happening to us recently. Punch, 
of Punch & Judy, Inc., has suddenly become' a major part of 
our life.
It started at a party, about two weeks ago. It was one 
of those get-Osear-to-hang-from-the-chandelier-and-do-his-ape-act 
parties, and one of the boys and we, crouching behind the Morris 
chair trying to think up something startling to do, found ourselves 
putting on a noisy and somewhat vandalie Punch and Judy show 
which consistedT>f peering over the back of the chair, shrieking, 
beating each other over the head with Life Magazine, and dis
appearing back behind the chair again.
After that, Punch was never far from us. (We havent seen 
much of Judy, but we arent interested in her, anyhow.) He 
popped over the side of the booth in the Skibo and enlivened our 
dinner with shouts of Chickenchiek! lie turned up in a more 
or less sedate Drama Literature class, as being the direct descend
ant of a character in Roman comedy. Its getting so were afraid 
to walk home after dark. (Imagine being held up by a puppet!)
Recreation Department 
Yo-yos are coming into their own again, or maybe its just 
that the fifteen or twenty people weve seen with them are taking 
refuge from the foreign situation. We never were very good with 
a yo-yo; we couldnt do tricks, that is, but we must admit that 
for endurance we were not to be outdone by anyone. We yo-yod 
2,435 times once, and would probably be yo-yo-ing yet if the string 
hadnt broken.
Lets Talk About Us 
A few weeks ago, we said wed like to become famous so wed 
be invited to be a guest, expert on Information Please. 0ur friends 
in Scotch and Soda have made life" so much easier for us. Now 
all we have to do is get on the faculty.
Weve got .a new typewriter. Its lovely, but somehow or 
other we dont seem so clever on it. Maybe thats just because its 
much easier now to read what weve written.
Breathing Spell 
Whenever Thanksgiving vacation comes, its the one holiday 
which, if it didnt, everybody would have serious nervous-mental, 
and physical breakdowns.. Around the second week in November, 
the Tech campus begins to look like a concentration camp. People 
walk around dragging the circles under their eyes, everyone lias 
seven hours worth of work to do in one lunch hour; life is real, 
life is earnest, life is rapidly departing. We dont think its midsemesters that do it, particularly . . . its just that from the open
ing of school to Thanksgiving is just the length of time needed 
to let people get to the point where they cant go any further 
without turning into characters out of a Russian novel, paper-doll 
cutter-outers, or else they just plain collapse. That last is our 
condition. Thud!
llllllllllilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilll!C. S. EDMN
PRINTERBest Wishes On
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193Founders Day
Compliments

Knapp Bros.
OF THECompany
Highland
Oysters . . . Sea Foods 
of All Kinds
Laundry Co.
5708 Walnut StreetAT. 0175
MO. 5222116-118 Blvd. of Allies
By Otto Krcnn
Your Merry Christmas! from 
the Drama Department this sea
son comes in the form of a devi
ation from its usual policy. A bill 
of four one-act plays will be pre
sented in lieu of the customary 
two-, or three-act performance. 
A decided Yuletide motif governs 
the program.
The outstanding feature will 
. be a Nativity Play written and 
directed by Mr. Job. It is a very 
free adaptation of fourteenth and 
. fifteenth century mystery cycles 
of York, Townley, and Coventry. 
Every attempt is being made to 
follow the medieval method of 
staging by use of stationsan in
dividual stage for each scene. The 
action takes place both on these 
stages (stations) and between 
them, transforming the whole 
theatre into the scene of action, 
with the stations as focal points. 
The first station shows the shep
herds receiving the tidings from 
the angels and preparing to fol
low the star. The second station 
depicts Herods learning of the 
birth and plotting the new-born 
Kings destruction. Next, the three 
kings enroute to Bethlehem, final
ly arriving at the third station, 
which is the manger scene. The 
staging and pageant effect are ex
cellent, replete with all the tradi
tional colorful costumes. The mar 
terial has been prepared with the 
intent of preserving all the nov
elty and quaintness of the orig^-
inal. The Music Department will 
lend welcome assistance to the 
play through a group of carol 
singers whose carols will blend 
with the play and provide a fit
ting musical background for the 
successive scenes.
The cast includes: Helene Jeffin as Vexillator; Marvin Einhorn 
as Herod, Milton I-lowarth, John 
Blankerichip, and Richard Aiken 
as the Three Kings; Frank Durkee and H. Barnard as Joseph; 
Elizabeth Root as .Mary; Ann 
Price and Betsey Dunkhorst as 
the Angel. .
Thornton Wilder contributes to 
half of the program with two of 
his short plays, The Happy 
Journey and Long Christmas 
Dinner, forerunners of Our 
Town, both of which will be di
rected by Mr. Boettcher. Like 
Our Town, neither play uses 
scenery or props.
The Happy Journey is the 
story of an average American 
family making an auto trip to 
visit an older daughter. The hap
penings and conversation during 
the trip present a vivid picture of 
the typical family Americana. 
Esther Jane Coryell is cast as Ma, 
John Beattie as Pa, Ruth Orr as 
Caroline, Robert Challener as Ar
thur, Bill Thunhurst as Stage 
Manager, Ann-Marshall Price as 
Beulah.
Long Christmas Dinner shows
Brain Teaser
A plane, flying with the wind, 
required two hours to get from 
Pittsburgh to New York City. On 
the return trip, flying against 
the same wind, it took six hours. 
What would be its time in still 
weather?
Answer on. page 4
GENERAL LINEN 
SUPPLY CO.
Complete Linen Service
801 NUBLOCK STREETFAirfax 7500
the lives of the different genera
tions of one family over a perfod 
of ninety years, compressed into 
one long Christmas dinner. The 
cast includes Doris Bloomberg, 
Eleanor Weal, Jenny Lou Law, 
Roland Kraus, Richard Rose, Mil
ton I-lowarth, Tom Jones, Doro
thy ODell, Eleanor Collins, Bet
ty McCarthy, Rose Marie Ellis, 
Robert I-Iealy, Alan Blum.
Douglas McLean is directing the 
St. George Play, author un
known. It is a medieval Christmas 
play mainly about the groups of 
carollers who masqueraded at 
Christmastime and went to the 
manor houses to sing and put on 
dumb shows, dance' and ask 
for presents. The program will 
open in the Fine Arts Theatre, 
Friday, December 6, and will run 
till Friday, December 13, with a 
3:30 matinee on the 13th. Tickets 
for the evening performances will 
be available in the Registrars of
fice on or about Monday or Tues
day, December 1 or 2. No tickets 
will be required at the Friday 
matinee.
Help to Protect Your 
Home from Tuberculosis
D3lte
*tgi3mpis 2.nmteN
50c to $1.19
Headquarters for Beautifulft Sweaters o Blouses
l>Silk Lingerie Bags
o Also Foundation Garments:
L SMSON, Inc,
Funeral Directors
537 NEVILLE STREET 
Established 1859
Tom Job Directs Own Play in Xmas BillsCHRISTMAS SEALS

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 26, 1940
THE SMOKE OF SLOWER-BURNING CAMELS GIVES YOU
i[M il [sl0[l $5 il  $il0 $5 il 
F[0luinulFFeM re[0liilu iluilaDFluu 
i[M [Mc $5 iltD[rr$0aeM i$ eMalolM 
alMi urelMie5er iluiu $5 il ut$Cl eiulF5
35N 1FrV.NthefiVstmnce 
PscTtNg3N_
Rngineering & Drawing Supplies
^ V. 3 CIGARETTE
>^f(MCSrmm/M*/
By burning 25% slower
than the average of the 4 other of the 
largest-selling brands testedslower 
than any of themCamels also give you 
a smoking plus equal, on the average, to
5 EXTRA SMOKES PER PACK!
W
HEN you get right down to it, a cigarette is only as flavorful 
only as coolonly as mildas it smokes. The smokes the thing!
Obviousyes, but importantall-important because what you get in 
the smoke of your cigarette depends so much on the way your cigarette 
burns.
Science has pointed out that Camels are definitely slower-burning 
(see left). That means a smoke with more mildness, more coolness, and 
more flavor.
Now Science confirms another important advantage of slower 
burning... of Camels.
Less nicotine in the smoke! Less than any of the 4 other of the 
largest-selling brands tested-28% less than the average!
Light up a Camel... a s-l-o-w-burning Camel... and smoke out the 
facts for yourself. The smokes the thing!
SMOKING OUT THE FACTS about nicotine. Experts, 
chemists analyze the smoke of 5 of the largest-selling 
brands ... find that the smoke of slower-burning Camels 
contains less nicotine than any of the other brands tested.
It. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Wlnston-Salcm, North Carolina
SOUTH 18th STREET
PITTSBURGH, PA.
practicing. She lold us 
now practices five hours or more 
every day and although she isnt 
going to any school, she reads 
histories, science books and biog
raphies with great enthusiasm.
Betty Jane is attractive, tall, 
and lias reddish-gold hair which 
she wears in a long bob. She liter
ally bubbles over when she talks 
about her trip this summer to 
South America with the National 
Youth orchestra under Stokowski, 
who, by the way, dined second 
class Just to be with his orchestra 
members. In fourteen days, the 
orchestra gave thirteen concerts 
In most of the big cilios in South 
K mor lea. Of course this could be 
done only by constant rehearsing.
Last year, Betty Jane was in 
Belgium studying with Carl 
Flosch when the war broke out. 
.She sacl that the American Con
sul was very concerned over her 
well'aro until they finally manag
ed to get her the last ticket for 
passage on the Queen Mary.
' Horseback riding is her favor
ite sport and although she is fond 
of tennis, she cant play because 
of the effect it would have on her 
very flexible wrists. She adores 
dancing, and luckily she can
Teaser Ansiver
Teaser on page 3 
It is not necessary to know the 
airline distance from Pittsburgh 
to New York to solve this prob
lem, for it is easily seen, by intui
tion, experiment, or algebra, that 
the actual distance has no effect 
on the answer. For convenience 
let us make the distance 300 miles. 
Then the planes speed with the 
wind is 150 miles per hour, and 
against the wind, 50 miles per 
hour. Its speed in still air is 
therefore 100 miles per hour, and 
the corresponding time is three 
hours. Three is the haromnic 
mean between 2 and 6, the har
monic mean of two numbers be
ing defined as the reciprocal of 
the average of their reciprocals. 
More time is lost in bucking the 
wind than saved in flying with it 
because the distance lost or gain
ed at the rate of 50 miles per hour, 
the speed of the wind, is evidently 
proportional to the total time in 
the air, and the latter of course 
will be greater when the wind is 
opposing the planes flight.
Presidents Statement
Following is a statement issued by President Robert E. 
Doherty on the death of Dr. Roscoe M. Ihrig:
November 23, 1940.
In Dr. Roscoe M. Ihrig-8 death the Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology has lost one of its profound scholars, greatest teachers, and 
most able executives. He was beloved by all students, all alumni, 
find by every member oi! the faculty.
As Director of the Division of General Studies and Dean of 
ll'rcsliinen in Engineering, Dr. Ihrig influenced the lives of. thou
sands oi! day students; as Director of Evening Courses, he guided 
and inspired other thousands of students; and as Secretary ol! the 
Association of Urban Universities, he had an active part in formu
lating national educational politiees.
Dr. Ihrig was a man of the noblest ideals and the highest 
culture. Ilrst kindly humor never failed. His heart and soul were 
devoted to the education of youth. Each student was his son and 
was encouraged and given every opportunity to succeed. One of 
Ins last messages was, Toll the hoys that 1 have done my best. 
Dr. Ihrig exemplified to the fullest extent the sentiment in the 
phrase on the seal of the Institute, My heart is in the work. 
Students and faculty at Carnegie Tech have lost one of their dear
est friends.
Bin Tcileiis
Betty Janes Arduous Studies 
Rewarded By Concert Career
By Mercedes Cunningham 
With only a mere eighteen years 
to her credit, Betty Jane Atkin
son,. g'fted young Pittsburgh vio
linist, has had a very exciting life. 
At the age of four she began 
studying violin with her father 
and has never thought of being 
anything but a concert violinist 
since.
dance as much as she wants to 
with no ill effects.
We were anxious to know what 
she thought about a college edu
cation in connection with a vir
tuoso career. She didnt have to 
think very long before she said 
she thought the combination im
possible, because concentrated 
study was so importantespecial
ly during college yearsthat oth
er subjects should definitely re
main in the background. (Well, 
Tech Music Schoolwhat say?)
As we left the house we could 
hear Betty Jane brushing up 
on the Beethoven Concerto which 
she played that same night at her 
debut with the Pittsburgh Sym
phony.
WM. J. SLATER & SONS 
Funeral Directors
MT. WASHINGTON BEECHVIEW
MT. LEBANON
this will, then that action results 
in everlasting value. On the other 
hand, acts of expediency, as par
ticipating in war, bring nothing 
but shallow, worthless, temporary 
success that is doomed to extinc
tion. Warring nations cannot dis
tinguish between the guilty and 
the innocent, the evil and the 
good, when they scatter bombs 
over a nation or when they boy
cott a nation. It is the very na
ture of war to destroy the good 
with the evil.
From these considerations, in 
the other sessions, Mr. Page pro
ceeded to outline a positive pro
gram of action for religious peo
ple in a world at war. He gave 
considerable time to the matter of 
a foreign policy for the U. S. that 
would be consistent with his pacif
ists convictions.
Harmony Short Lm 
Chartered Coaches 
RxiY Time, Usay Where
COurt 4^jj
210 TENTH STREET PITTSBURGH, PA.
KEYSTONE LUMBER CO.
English llniversities Continue to Function
It seems that bursting bombs 
are not preventing English sci
entific societies from pursuing 
their accustomed objectives. Mr. 
John M. Sauer, Instructor in Me
chanics at Carnegie Tech, has just 
received a copy of the October 
issue of the Proceedings of the 
Royal Society, in which is pub
lished a paper which he wrote in 
collaboration with H. N. V. Ternperley on A Theoretical Study of, 
a Possible Model of Paramagnetic 
Alums at Low Temperatures.
This paper, according to Mr. 
Sauer, does not have any imme
diate practical applications, but it 
is intended to promote pure sci
ence by contributing to our gen
eral knowledge of the nature of 
magnetism. He says that Cam
bridge and Oxford Universities 
seem to be functioning about as 
usual, but he has received a let
ter from the Board of Research 
Studies at Cambridge, saying that 
the research work that he is now 
carrying on in America can be 
counted toward his Doctors de
gree at Cambridge.
Council . . .
Continued from, page 1
ed to $19 a month, an Increase 
of $4. One dollar a month will be 
taken from the salaries of the 
Editor-in-Chief, the Managing 
Editor, the News Editor, and the 
Business Manager, to make up 
the added S4. The second peti
tion was the appointment of two 
reporters, Mercedes Cunningham 
and Barbara Kramer, to the staff 
of Junior Editors. Since both pe
titions had been approved by the 
TARTAN staff, they were unan
imously approved by the Council.
Adjournment followed, after 
Miss Williams was appointed 
chairman of a committee to in
vestigate the possibility of salarKirby Page Leads 
Peace Discussions
Mr. Kirby Page, well known 
author and religious - pacifist, led 
an International Relations Confer
ence on Saturday, November 23, 
at the Downtown Y. M. C. A. The 
Conference was sponsored by the 
American Friends Service Com
mittee in conjunction with local 
church and peace organizations. It 
consisted of three lecture and dis
cussion periods whose themes 
were: Religions Answer to Totaltarianism, Place of Religion in 
a World at War, and How Can 
We Defend American Decomracy? 
Mr. Page laid the foundation for 
the thought and discussion of the 
conference in the first session 
when he defined what religion has 
to say about war and violence. He 
argued from the premise of the 
truth of the commandment of ab
solute love for God and man. He 
affirmed the superiority of the 
power of the spiritual forces over 
those of the world. Great em
phasis was given to the convic
tion that if man seeks the will of 
God for himself in the problems of 
war, and acts in accordance with

---------------------------------------------------

i&
IFC Conference
This Friday and Saturday, the 
Inter!rternity Council will send 
its president, Ralph Martin, '41, 
and its advisor, Professor Neelley, as reprsentatives, to the Na
tional Conference for Interfra
ternity Councils in the Commo
dore Hotel, New York. The con
ference includes a banquet Fri
day evening at which Lowell 
Thomas will be toastmaster and 
Wendell Willlcie will be the prin
cipal speaker.
The meeting is held for the pur
pose of exchanging ideas for so
cial programs and rushing, and 
to discuss mutual problems and 
ways of solving them.
Mr. Keck, Mr. Eyman and Mr. 
Goodfellow have been chosen as 
the committee who will determ
ine the winner of the permanent 
grounds award to be given during 
Spring Carnival.
AXAs to Sell Holly
The mistletoe will be missing, 
(aw, shucks) but the Christmas 
spirit at Tech will be brightened 
this year by sprigs of holly that 
the Alpha Chi Alpha girls are 
going to pass out Thursday and 
Friday, December 19 and 20. In 
classrooms as well as in the three 
school eateries, girls will be sta
tioned to pass out the holly, and 
to accept contributions for the 
Alphas literary publication, the 
Bard. Alpha Chi Alpha is the 
womens national journalistic 
honorary; the Tech chapter edits 
the Bard, made up of the literary 
efforts of the students. The Bard 
is the only literary magazine on 
the campus and should be sup
ported by the wearin' of the holly.
Language Clul) Meets
On December third, M. Emile 
Majerus, for many years Presi
dent of the Pittsburgh Alliance 
Franaise, will speak of his na
tive Paris in French before the 
Modern Language club, accom
panying his Promenade de Paris, 
with lantern slides of familiar 
places and scenes of the old center 
of culture.
In addition, Mrs. Hindu Going 
(Dean Dickens), accompanied by 
Mrs. Dorothy Carroll, will sing 
some favorite French songs. Mrs. 
Going, who is coming to study 
music, played professionally in 
musical comedies while in New 
York.
The Club invites all those who 
are interested in the program to 
its Circle.
Y Cabinet Meets
Rev. William H. Orr will speak 
this Thursday at a meeting' of the 
combined Y. W. M. A. and Y. 
M. C. A. cabinets of both the 
freshmen and upperclassmen. Rev. 
Orr will speak on the topic Com
parative Relations.
All those who might bo inter
ested are asked to come to the 
meeting, which will begin prompt
ly at 8:00, at the Union.
Student Recital
Next- Sunday evening at 8:15, 
students in the Department of 
Music will give a recital in the 
Theatre, College of- Fine Arts. 
This will be the second recital of 
the season. No tickets of admis
sion are necessary.
Thistle Picture Dates
Group pictures of the follow ing organizations will be taken on 
Sunday, December 1st, at the Stu
dent Union.
v:6jVw.e, *gfkmkte
v:4^VKT3eg,iegs *.geF
:jjV13g Jgkkg bi
:v^Vuhg55geF gTF *sgFt
:6jV_.e3ge *.geF
:4^Vumf,g dsklg K.3g
6:jjVKT3tel.T.egeN Reg3teT3N 9.iThms
6:K*V8g,,g 8g,,g 8g,,g
6:6jV*t3g Agi Bg,5Fg
6:4^V*t3g om
4:jjVdsklg Jgkkg onm
4:v^Vdsklg 9lm dsklg
Chinese Art Display
On December 4th, from 12:30 
to 4:30 P. M. Mrs. Rose Hum Lee 
will display a collection of Chin
ese jewelry, linens, robes, and 
novelties in the Phail Alcove on 
the second floor of Margaret Mor
rison. All articles are individ
ual, for one of the charms of Chi
nese art is that work is never 
duplicated. All pieces in the dis
play will be for sale, prices start
ing at twenty-flve cents.
Citcom Dance
Citcom Clan will hold a Barn 
dance tomorrow evening at nine 
oclock in Thistle Hall. Friends 
of the clan are invited to attend.
JUST GOOD FOOD
HM $0 c$R MRi Mi eFe$ I
HSTASEL IiOOKSe0n U& 
Ii S EK Ii MHHIee$M M 
Iteieie W$R - eF 5ei $eeRBi 
0$UFMi IFe$ $$a 5$MeFe <l*- '
OAKLAND
RESTAURANT
NNNGV Y^ yFiSe[ OK^ bE$M0 g$02le% 
^FROi HIK yMMeoeeO 
Ho$M L[c MReF EF55Fei
Al Zest to Your Daily Ufe j
Chew Delicious 
D0UBLEM1 MX GUM
noTLTwTwTcK tun it
w oi'de'
healthiuHreat daily helps
and keep your teeth attractive.
Treat yourself to healthful, refreshrng 
DOUBLEMINT GUM every day.
Buy several packages of OOUBLEMINt GUM today
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 26, 1940____________________________________________________THE CARNEGIE 1 ART AN
. . . On the Campus . . .
Compliments 
-of -
PPER
PRODUCTS
COMPANY
Terminal Building 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
Cngrafu!afiGii Io lech 
36 Years of Progress
May You Continue To Turn Out Students of 
As Fine Quality As Those Who Have 
Already Graduated
N. A. M. P. scholarship students examine a unit heater testing 
apparatus. Left to rightAlvin 1. Sher, Frederick Breyer, James E. 
Stauffer, William A. Schneider. StoopingEdward A. Culley and 
Clifford F. Smith, Jr.
Generous Scholarships Given 
To Sons'of Master Plumbers
On
By Saul Moses
Tell me, students, are there any 
more at home like youI mean, 
sons of a master plumber.
Some of the highest-valued 
scholarships available at Tech are 
the National Association of Mas
ter Plumbers awards carrying a 
stipend of $600 a year. But you 
have to be a son of a master 
plumberin good standing.
During the spring of their sen
ior year, high-school graduatesto-be take a College Entrance Ex
amination Board Scholarship test, 
just as the Brashear aspirants do. 
From a consideration of high 
school records, grades of the 
scholarship test, and need, the 
Tech scholarship committee makes 
recommendations and one or two 
are chosen by the N. A. M. P. 
The boys must maintain a C av
erage to keep the scholarship for 
four years.
All the boys enroll in the De
partment of Mechanical Engin
eering at Tech, taking the option 
called Plumbing, Heating, and 
Air-conditioning. Local talent has 
not as yet placed a winner in the 
scholarship list. The West is still 
going strong.
The present holders are:
James E. Stauffer  Dayton, 
Ohio, senior, member of Kappa 
Sigma.
Clifford Frink Sniithjunior 
from Sioux Falls, South Dakota, 
member of Delta Upsilon, soccer, 
boxing, Y-cabinet, Scottie.
Frederick Breyer  Detroit, 
Michigan, junior, member of Tau 
Delta Phi, American Society of 
Heating and Ventilating Engi
neers; varsity basketball and track.
Edward A. CulleyWheeling,
YOLKWEINS
Music
Musical Instruments
Phonograph Records
New Fellowship 
To Be Offered
Dr. Webster N. Jones, Director 
of the College of Engineering, has 
announced that Carnegie has been 
awarded a fellowship in civil en
gineering by the Engineering 
Foundation of New York.
The award followed the rec
ommendation by Leon Moissieff, 
prominent consulting bridge en
gineer, that Carnegie Tech re
ceive this grant.
No recipient for the Tech fel
lowship has so far been selected, 
but it is believed that a selection 
will be made in the near future. 
The grant includes, in addition 
to the stipend, additional funds 
to provide materials, specimens 
and equipment necessary in car
rying on the research project.
Campus . . .
England has prepared a bibliog
raphy on Frequency Modulation 
so .that students of radio may'Ac
quaint themselves with this new 
discovery. Those wishing copies 
should write to the Research De
partment. Station WAAB, the 
Colonial Network, 21 Brookline 
Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts.
New York Philharmonic
The Pittsburgh Orchestra As
sociation will present the New 
York Philharmonic Orchestra, 
with John Barbirolli conducting, 
on November 30, at the Syria 
Mosque.
Town Hall
Will Durant, Americas out
standing philosopher, will lecture 
at Carnegie Music Hall on Mon
day, December 2. Sponsored by 
Town Hall, he will speak on 
Crisis in American Civilization.
Science Colloquium
The regular monthly meeting 
of the Sigma Xi General Science 
colloquium will feature a talk 
by Dr. Harry Karn, University 
of Pittsburgh, on a highly con
troversial topic Experimentally 
Induced Behavior Abnormalities 
in Animals. Last year a one 
thousand dollar prize was award
ed to a scientist expressing op
posite views to Dr. Karn and Dr. 
Porter of the psychology depart
ment.
Dr. Porter is conducting re
search similar to that by Dr. 
Karn. The meeting will be held 
Thusrsday morning, December 5, 
at 11:30 A. M., in the Faculty 
Lounge adjoining the Faculty 
Dining Room. A discussion is held 
after the talk in which questions 
will be answered by the speaker. 
Those interested are cordially in
vited to attend.
Newman Club Plans
The Newman Club of Tech is 
the largest in membership com
pared with any school in the dis
trict. This is the result of a mem
bership drive which lasted two 
weeks. The committee at Tech 
walked off with almost all the 
prizes because Tech was so well 
represented. These prizes were 
awarded at the mixer dance held 
in the gym.
Yesterday members crowded 
into room D in the Union to dis
cuss big plans for next semester, 
including bowling, ice-skating, 
and other entertainment.
New Director 
is Tech Grad
Will Davis, Drama 36, has been 
chosen to act as guest director for 
Here Today, the second produc
tion of the season at the Pitts
burgh Playhouse, which will open 
tonight.
While at Tech Mr. Davis was 
unusually active in dramatic 
circles here. He extended his ac
tivities to dancing in Tech bal
lets and even to radio broadcast
ing.
Following a successful year kn 
head of the Department of Drama 
and Speech Clinic of a large high 
school, Mr. Davis migrated to New 
York, where he has since direct
ed numerous studio experiment
al productions. The list of his ac
tivities while at New York is large 
and impressive: he has been hon
ored by the American Theatre 
Council by having been chosen as 
one of a small group of prom
ising young actors for perform
ances at the Guild Theatre; he 
has had roles in radio and tele
vision productions of the National 
Broadcasting Companies; he has 
also acted in motion pictures at 
the Paramount Studios; he has 
modeled, danced, and even taught 
diction. In spite of all this, he has 
had time for parts with Empire 
Stock Company, Red Barn Thea
tre in Westboro, Massachusetts, 
and others.
West Virginia, sophomore. Mem
ber of Phi Kappa, Scimitar, Glee 
Club, swimming.
William A. SchneiderScran
ton, Pa., freshman. Pledge of Sig
ma Nu.
Alvin Irving Sher  Duluth, 
Minnesota, freshman. Pledge of 
Tau Delta Phi.
In case you want information, 
details and suchsee the plumb
ers.
 . . Off the
HODGERS
DAIRY STORES 

MILK SHAKES
Made from Pure Whole Milk 
for only 10c
We Do Not Use Skim Milk. 

NEAREST STORES LOCATED 
AT
3905 FORBES STREET 
Near Bouquet Street
4619 CENTER AVENUE 
Near Craig Street
Flagstad To Sing
Kirsten Flagstad, the greatest 
Wagnerian soprano in the world, 
will present an All-Wagner pro
gram this Friday evening and 
Sunday afternoon in Syria 
Mosque. Edwin McArthur will 
conduct the orchestra in its fourth 
pair of concerts.
Miss Flagstad will sing selec
tions from Lohengrin, Tannhauser, and Tristan and Isolde. 
Miss Flagstad has been the great
est box-office attraction in the 
Metropolitan Opera Co. since she 
swept an audience completely 
off its feet in 1935 in the role of 
Sieglinde in Die Walkeure. 
Ever since that time crowds have 
stood for hours to gain admission 
to her concerts.
Free Radio Booklet
The Colonial Network of New

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN_____________________________________________________TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 26, 1940
LAST YEARS CAGE CHAMPS S(*OtS Mi'Cl DukeS skatfi?* i i atwi?
In Seasons Final 
Next Saturday
The above men are members of (he FiKAs champ basketball squad. 
Back rowRankin, Duchene, Smith, Kidney, and Boteman. Front 
rowEllis, Stankey, Anthony. Patterson, and Yardumian.
Tliese boys were rated last year by outsiders as the best intramural 
basketball squad seen on the Tech Campus for quite some time. Al
though many of the team members have graduated, the Morewood 
Avenue boys feel they have adequate replacements to cop the much 
fought over cup.
SPORT TIDBITS...
By Jim Geist
Of all the Saturdays of this 
football season the one just passed 
produced the most thrilling and 
spectacular games. The stars of 
the respective teams came through 
in terrific style to meet all the 
build-ups the press has given 
them. Most of the favored teams 
won, but when they didnt the 
upset was definitely sensational.
If come one asked me what 
game I would like to see (now 
that the outcome of all games are 
known) providing that the game 
would be played exactly as it 
was last Saturday, I would cer
tainly pick the Penn-Cornell bat
tle. Both of these teams wanted 
to win in the worst sort of way 
and their spirit was unmatched 
by any other teams playing that 
day. The Ithicans were driving 
with all their might to beat a Penn 
aggregation which was /classed as 
the underdog. To follow the pre
cedent set by Cornell, Penn fol
lowed the Big Reds touchdown 
with one of their own. Cornell 
scored twice in the first quarter 
and converted once to give them 
anedge of 13-0. With this seem
ingly comfortable lead they were 
confident that Penn could not mus
ter enough drive to cover 13 
points. But much to the surprise 
oil the crowd, and most of all to 
the Cornell team itself, Penn 
rolled up an equal score. The 
boys from down Philadelphia way 
werent satisfied with a tie so they 
promeptly kicked an impressive 
field goal. The score stood at 10- 
13 in favor of Penn, but not for 
longCornell added 7 points and 
again this score was followed by 
a six-pointer from Penn. The 
scoring closed with this touch
down by Penn.
Reagan, Penns left halfback, 
stole the show. He scored all three 
of his teams touchdowns and if 
you ask the Cornellians who they 
saw the most of, Mr. Reagan 
would be mentioned with a moan. 
When Cornell threw a pass, the 
receiver was in contact with some 
of Reagans handiwork. He spent 
the afternoon knocking down the 
Big Reds passes and occasionally 
catching one and running it back 
for a sizeable gain. In addition 
to being a thorn in the side of the' 
Ithicians, he punted for an average 
of 45 yards per luck; and ran the 
ball gaining 110 yards in 25 tries 
With all the fine work he has tump
ed in this season, his name should 
appear at the left halfback post 
on many an All-American team.
The Golden Panthers from 
across the hollow placed the only 
reversal on Penn States season. 
State was hoping to end the year 
with a clean slate, but Pitt threw 
a large bucket-full of very cold 
water on any such hopes. Pitt was 
never on the short end of the 
score. The only period which was 
void of at least one tally was the
second. Pitt relied solely on their 
running attack to pile up a 20-7 
victory. Ted Konetsky, Pitt tackle 
and captain, was the outstanding 
man on the field; State just 
wasnt able to convince Mr. Ko
netsky that he.shouldnt be camp
ing in their, backfield. A certain 
reserve, halfback weighing in at 
a* mere 140 pounds and calling 
himself Pepper Petrella, kept 
State in the game. He covered 
about half the field when Pitt took 
to the air. On punt returns he was 
not equaled. Pitt was definitely 
at its best and its increasing 
strength was at a peak.
Sports Quiz
Test Your Bruin 
On These Questions
1. Who is the fastest runner in 
professional football, and what 
team did he play for before turn
ing pro?
2. What four persons have 
knocked more home runs than 
anbody else?
3. Who is the up and coming 
heavyweight boxer that seems to 
bo the white hope? He has won 
his last twelve fights by KOs, and 
among his victims are Ace Small, 
Horse Nash, and Fritz Von 
Ritchie.
4. Who is the greatest living 
ambidextrous tennis player, and 
from what country does he come?
5. Of all the teams that Notre 
Dame has ever played, which is 
the only team that Notre Dame 
never has beaten? (Hint: this 
team has ruined Notre Damqs un
beaten and untied record five 
times.)
(>. Who was the football player 
of 1939 that Ted Husing labeled 
"the best back in the land?
7. Who was the happy-golucky golfer this year that won six 
major golf tournaments? From 
what state did he come, and who 
was the pro that predicted three 
years ago that this golfer would 
have a very bright future?
8. Who is the up and coming 
young miler that hails from Glen 
Cunninghams alma mater, Kan
sas; and what is his best time since 
he has started running the mile?
9. What football back of last 
year had the best average, per try 
of yards gained from scrimmage? 
(Hint: he is a big full-blood 
American Indian.)
10. What basketball team 
probably plays more games than 
an> other basketball team in the 
country, and yet doesnt lose over 
eight games a season?
11. What iootbaU teams this 
year played against four Bowl 
Teams of January 1, 1940? Name 
three of these teams.
answers on page 7
Last Saturday the soccer team 
broke a two-year slump by de
feating the Oberlin booters 2-1. 
Both of Carnegies goals were 
made in the first half, the first 
being made by Andre Szoke and 
the second by Dusty Rhoades. 
Ivan Sivachek was very instru
mental in the Skibos victory by 
playing a heads-up game. He was 
able to stop at least three or four 
potential goals of the opposing 
Oberlin squad. Others on the 
team who did more than their 
share to win the game were Bill 
White and Bob Reisacher.
Oberlin made its score in the 
last quarter when Sivachek made 
his only error in the game. He
dropped the ball, thus giving the 
Oberlin boys a chance to make 
their, solitary goal.
Saturday's game was a rough 
one; a fight nearly resulted from 
an Oberlin boy taking a swing 
at one of the Skibo players. The 
whole game was played hard and 
probably more spirit was shown 
by - both sides in this game than 
in any previous.
Although this years team has 
not done too well, much credit 
miist be given to Coach Pat OCon
ner for giving his time and energy 
to coach the team. There is much 
hope for a better team next year 
in the fact that several- of the 
freshman have shown much abil
ity and talent this year.
FRENCH TAILOR
i[Mls 0M$5Ml $5F unMl
Fred Feiler, voted last year as the most outstanding goalie in the 
Pennsylvania-Ohio Hockey League of which Tech was a member, will 
be the captain of the Tartan skaters this year. He is taking the place 
of Walter Buck Wilson who graduated last June.
Heer Chosen Outstanding 
Grid Coach by School
Coach Dr. William Heer, known 
to his intimates. as Windy, has 
gathered together a group of inex
perienced football neophytes and 
in the short period of four weeks 
has moulded them into a hard 
hitting, vicious blocking aggre
gation. Typical of all Windys 
teams developing a high-geared at
tack, featuring savage blocking 
and . phenomenal timing, these 
Champions demonstrated the 
handicraft of a master of masters.
Windy has developed not an 
individual star but rather a team 
of stars. The team, of which this 
man is the chief mentor, we are 
sure needs no introduction to you 
football fanatics; needless to say 
they are the banner carriers of the 
Delta Tau Delta Chapter here at" 
Carnegie Tech.
Dr. Heer, quiet unassuming 
gentleman that he is, takes none
of the credit for this .extended 
streak of victories. When press
ed for a statement by the Hawks 
of the press, Dr. Heer stated: It 
Was the men oh the team all the 
way, all I did was to make up 
the plays, train the team, guide 
them through their struggles, and 
make the various strategic moves 
that a coach of my calibre is call
ed upon to make. An intimate 
peek into Dr. Heers system shows 
no signs of a crystal ball, pray
ers, or' any other such device of 
the desperate, but merely a styleof play based on a cooly calculated 
and scientifically deduced form
ula known only to Dr. Heer and 
his associates. To compare him 
with Baker, Sutherland or Rockne 
would be folly, so let us now lay 
to rest the case of the coach of 
the year, Dr. William Windy 
Heer.
I CONGRATULATIONS j 
i

- TO -
TECH
o L. BRHM CO.
Wholesale Meats 
AT. 5500 406 PENN AVENUE
BOWL
FOR FUN!
MURRAY-BEACON ALLEYS25 Beautiful Alleys
3 Minutes From Campus 
1916 MURRAY AVE.
Jay Ord Mack, Mat. 43 
is now Assistant Manager
Techs Hooters Win 2=1 
In Game With! Oberlin
STUDENTS - - 
Lets Dance a Bit
At JIMMY HITTS
DANCING NIGHTLY FROM 9 UNTIL 2
INCLUDING SUNDAYS
Admission is only 25c per couple 
Jimmy supplies the music 
Jimmy Features the Finest Foods, Barbecues, and Soft Drinks 
At Iteeular Prices. No Intoxicating Drinks Served.
JIMMY HITTS'
Five Miles East of WiUrinsburg, On the Wm. Penn 
Highway(Route 22)
Douglas Stores in Pittsburgh 
203 FIFTH AVENUE
*6117 Penn Ave., E. Liberty *Wilkinsburg, 921 Wood St.
*417 East Ohio St.. N. S. Wheeling, 1202 Market St.
*Open Evenings 
Also Newest Styles In Lady Douglas $3.85 and $4.95
By George Tondorf
Carnegie Techs rapidly im
proving gridiron warriors face 
their final test of the season this 
Saturday when they meet the 
fighting Dukes from down on 
the BlufT. At this time the battle 
appears to be pretty close to a, 
toss-up, with the Skibos fresh 
from their conquest of Franklin & 
Marshall, victors over Dartmouth 
and Richmond. The Dukes, on the 
other hand, have to vindicate 
themselves for a non-too-good 
showing against the Villanova 
Wildcats, and will be gunning for 
the Scots.
Bowing only to Mississippi, one 
of Dixies most powerful teams, 
the Duquesne men sport six tri
umphs to date, including a 7-6 
win over St. Marys Galloping 
Gaels, pride of the Pacific Coast. 
The Plaid can gain an even break 
for the season in the won-lost col
umn by downing the Bluffites.
The Dukes attack features two 
evenly balanced. squads, the first 
composed largely of Seniors and 
Sophomores, and the second made 
up almost entirely of Juniors. The 
first-string team with Maliszewski, Long, Nopper, Vrhovac, Mazza, Delucia, and Squires on the 
line, and Petchell, Ahwesh, Semes, 
and Gonda in the backfield posi
tions, features power plays that 
weaken the defense for the second 
team to finish off with all the raz
zle-dazzle that a Notre Dame sys
tem can employ.
Phil Ahwesh, Syrian star, is the 
biggest backfield threat on the 
first string, doing the lions share 
of the passing and keeping the 
opponents back on their heels 
with his long, booming punts. 
Squires, Vrhovac,. Long, and Nop
per form the nucleus of a line that 
is hard for any team to pene
trate.
When the Dukes second team 
comes on the field the sparks 
really begin to fly. With Donelli,
Chadonick, Binotto, and Unites 
handling the ball like a hardwood 
aggregation, snappy laterals and 
double reverses have a way of 
leaving the opposing team flatfooted. Big A1 Demao, center, is 
the bulwark of the second string 
line both on defense and offense. 
Taking care of conversions with 
his educated toe, Johnny Rokisky
Dukes Speedster
boots all of the Bluffites points 
after touchdown.
One big item looming in favor 
of the Tartans is the way in which 
their aerial attack clicked against 
F & M with Frank Jor.dano toss
ing most of the leather and big 
George Muha and Ted Fisher on 
the receiving end. Since the 
Dukes pass defense has been one 
of their weaker departments, it 
appears that the Scots will take 
to the air early and plenty next 
Saturday.
Ckeefa
'Ij&U/i
famik
Youll feel like 
and a "Tiger 
wear heavy-weather 
"Extra Drys. Winter-comfort 
brogues in meilow tans with 
"antiqued finishes and rich, 
sinewy leathers give extr?
$3-95 - $5
Custom and 
Normal-Trod sorios 
wV^hh 
Quality Hoso,
 o[e0d wN^hh
The Eton 
wG^hh

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 26, 1940THE CARNEGIE TARTAN7
THISTLEDOWN
FINAL GAME: SKIBOS VS. DUKES
By Bill Floyd, Sports Editor
TOUCH FOOTB ALL WINNERSFields Wanted
Varsity Set For Final Game
There'seems to be an air of defeatism prevailing over the 
campus regarding our coming- battle with the Bluffite giants of 
Duquesne University. Unusual as it may seem, this feeling of a 
coming defeat is not shared by the members of our football club. 
Although often beaten and several times outplayed, the Field 
House boys feel certain they have the stuff necessary to walk away 
from this engagement on the long end of the score. The basis of 
this contention seems to be based on the fafet that, for the first, time 
during the entire season, all the members of the ball club should 
. be physically able to enter the game. The two weeks rest pe
riod is having an improving effect on such injured members of the 
.squad as George .Muha, Frank Jordano, Tony Laposki, and 
 Juicy  "Friedlander. These senior members, plus other veteran 
performers, are fully aware of the tough afternoon in store for 
them, but they promise to make it anything but' a tea party for the 
men from the hill-top. The results of these gridsters determina
tion will be decided Saturday on the stadium turf.
Freshman, Sophomore Battle
Last Friday afternoon, one of the most highly contested 
games I have seen all year was fought in the Tech Bowl. This 
inter-squad battle between the Freshman and Sophomores was the 
result of an argument on the part of Doctor Baker and his staff as 
to which group was the better football club. The . second year 
men won by virtue of a 7-6 score after scoring early in the first 
quarter of the game. So successful was the game that the coach
ing staff has decided to make this fracas an annual occurrence. It 
might be mentioned that the forlorn and peaked expressions on 
the faces of the Freshmen are the result of their loss, for they were 
. forced to forfeit their desserts for the ensuing week due to their
 past defeat. . 
Varsity C. Club
One' of the oldest organizations on the Tech campus from a
 standpoint of origin is the Carnegie Tech C club. This society, 
founded during the infant days of our. school, flourished for many 
years as one of. the outstanding organizations on the campus. 
During the early thirties-, for some unknown reason, this group 
,iell'-apart, and has since-been functioning as merely a name.
The-original society was composed of men who had won their 
letters in some varsity sport, and members were invited to join 011 
a standpoint of their, athletic ability and their general .goodfellowness. Often times, members of the faculty interested in 
the sports life of the college were invited to join the society and 
enter- into their activities.
Surely such an organization present on any campus would be 
:an asset to the school, if only as an organization designed to arouse 
;some of the latent school spirit. Why cant some of the letter 
'winners of the football, basketball, soccer, tennis, etc., teams band 
together and again bring to life such a group? Merely a sugges
tion, but let-?s see if-something cant be done.
Hannums Boys Start Marching
For the past five weeks Maxie Hannum (Der Fuehrer of the 
Tartan eager squad) has been driving his charges in preparation 
for: the coining hardwood season. To date the boys have been 
'dashing up and down the floor conditioning themselves for the 
. coming season. However, during the coming period before the 
storm, team work and the development of an offense are certain to 
be stressed.
The team this season is to be led by Red Burch, one of the 
outstanding hoopsters of last years squad. Behind nervous Red, 
such men as Wally and Kennit Patton, Hank Holets,Hugh Smith, 
Dave Brinn, and Ted Fisher are set to toss the ball 011 behalf of 
the Plaid cause.
eMsr aD sD
ISLY'S
MILK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM 
CONES
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the 
College District
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland 
5808 Forbes St., Squirrel Hill
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Allies
ATlantic 5533Hlland 0848
Automatic Cigarette 
Sales Company
Cigarette Vending Machines
614 Washington Trust Bldg. 
Cor. Washington St. & 5th Ave. 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
NTIONLTRSLWYS
HOLIDAYEXCURSIONS
DTt ygN r.iTF Aemk
.......$6.00 $9.55
....... 4.80 8.65
.... 4.50 8.10
........ 4.50 8.10
.............. 1.75 3.15
...................... 3.15 5.70
...................... 3.85 6.95
...................... 6.00 9.00
Call Sylvan H. Rosenfield, Student Representative, SChenley 3572, or Phone GRant 5744, 1011 Liberty Avenue.
ol.3. 5N 9lgestn WtThms
Above are the members of the victorious Delta Tau Delta touch 
football team. They are, from left to right, front rowDuncan, Van 
Nort, Durbin, Finey, Loundsburg; back rowLawrence, Paddin, Lockliead, Perin, Beck.
Plebes Defeated 
By Soph Team 7-6
Pash and Reed 
Star in Soph,
Plebe Contest
Last Friday afternoon, the Tech 
bowl was the scene of one of the 
best games of inter-squad foot
ball ever witnessed at Carnegie 
Tech. For a long time, there has 
been much controversy in the 
football squad as to who had the 
best team, the freshmen or the 
sophomores, so Friday the deci
sive battle occurred. When the 
final whistle blew, the sophomores 
or Tigers as they are more com
monly known, were on the long 
end of a 7-6 count. Once or twice 
the game got rough, but on the 
whole both teams played very 
sportsmanlike ball.
The teams were evenly matched 
as indicated by the score and the 
sophomores were no better than 
the one point margin by which 
they won. For the sopho
mores; Joe Piish displayed his 
usual shifty form by going around 
the freshmen ends for many sub
stantial gains. Virgil Cantini 
starred for the freshmen in a 
triple threat role,- his quick kicks 
proving especially effective in 
catching the Tigers' unawares on 
several occasions.
Early in the game, the sopho
mores got possession of the ball 
and started on their touchdown 
march. The sensational play of 
this drive was a long pass to Joe 
Pash that brought the ball within 
the shadow of the goal. On third
down the play went over right 
guard for the only touchdown 
the Tigers made. There was much 
controversy over this play, the 
freshmen and many of the specta
tors claiming that the ball had not 
crossed the final stripe, but field 
judge Muha declared it a touch
down and that it was. The extra 
point was place-kicked to make 
the score 7-0 for the sophs.
Later in the first half the fresh
men put across their only score 
of the game. Terminating a drive 
up the field, A1 Reid, who came 
into the game for Reed Byers,, 
ran around right end for the score. 
A pass was attempted for the ex
tra point but the receiver was 
dropped before he reached the 
goal, the score then being 7-6 
which it remained until the end 
of the game. As the final whistle 
of the half sounded, the fresh
men made another bid for a score. 
Wardzola, who had replaced 
Philipchuck at fullback, inter
cepted a pass and ran the ball 
' back the sideline, but was stop
ped as he tried to cut back into 
the field.
The second half was rather un
eventful, except for several runs 
by Pash around the freshmen 
ends. Cantini was hurt in this 
period, his knee being badly in
jured, and had to be taken to the 
hospital. As a result of the game, 
the freshmen are doing without 
desserts at the training table for 
a week. Coach Baker was pleas
ed with the result of the game 
and hopes to make it an annual 
affair at the Institute.
Notice
Mr. Eyman, director of Intra
mural Athletics, has announced 
through Owen Rittenhouse, the 
head of the schedule committee, 
that all schedules for Intramural 
Basketball, both Independent and 
Interfraternity, will be released 
this week at the earliest date pos
sible and will be sent to the heads 
of all the organizations compet
ing in the current program.
10.
11.
Answers to Sports Quiz
George McAfee, formerly of Duke, holder of the Southern 
Conference record the 100 yards9.7 seconds.
Babe Ruth, Jimmie Foxx, Lou Gehrig, and Mel Ott.
Stooge Brockington, whi is 6 feet 4 inches tall and weighs 
246 pounds.
Jack Bromwich of Australia.
The University of Iowa takes the honor.
Kenny Washington of U. C. L. A.
Jimmy Demaret from TexasHenry Picard was the yogi. 
Archie San Romani who ran his best mile in 4 minutes 9 
seconds.
John Polancki of Wake Forest. His average was 7.8 yards 
per try.
The New York Celtics who play about 140 games,, a year. 
Auburn plays Georgia Tech, Tulane, Clemson, Boston College.
B-O-W-L
STUDENT BOWLING 10 cents
Per line between the hours of 12 and 5 P. M.
ONE FREE GAME WITH YOUR STUDENT TICKETUNIVERSITY RECREATION
407 S. CRAIG ST. (Near Forbes)MAyflower 2998
Intramural Board Deplores 
Lack of Much Needed Space
Often, during the recently com
pleted intramural football season, 
many remarks were made by the. 
students competing, and those on 
the sidelines, deploring the lack 
of available space for carrying on 
an extensive football program. 
Being directly .concerned with the 
planning of football fields, the 
writer was often questioned on the 
subject. Many of these queries 
reached the members of the in
tramural1 board, the group filtering 
in from all the organizations on 
campus competing in the intra
mural program. And so the prob
lem of providing playing space for 
more and more students as they 
became interested in the pro
grams sponsored has become in
creasingly pertinent.
This year the intramural board 
succeeded in developing compe
tition in football to such an extent 
that the number of students en
tering exceeded all past records 
by a comfortable margin. And it 
has reason to believe that the 
interest shown will continue to 
increase. The entire intramural 
program has been tremendously 
expanded this year, and a fine 
variety of sports is developing 
considerable student interest. Prac
tice hours have been arranged 
in the gymnasium to accommodate 
many teams, and the Board is ap
preciative of the encouragementgiven by the school. However, it 
is hoped that such a rapidly de
veloping program will not be 
stymied by lack of playing space.
Many students have suggested 
that if the lot on the corner of 
Forbes and Margaret Morrison 
streets were scraped and leveled 
there would be no trouble in run
ning off a successful program. 
And they are quite right. It was 
understood by the Board that this 
lot would be'shaped up for use 
this season, and it. was disappoint
ing when it was not done. However, it is not a lost cause by any 
means, for the interested adminis
tration leaders have seen the stu
dents and are studying the situa
tion carefully.
At small expense the space un
der discussion could be filled and 
graded. This would provide a 
field on which good football grid
irons could be played out, arrange
ments being made to facilitate 
converting them into softball dia
monds.
Scheniey
FRANKLIN
[a il
RIGHT IDEA
When Benjamin Franklin 
became Postmaster General, 
lie made a study 
of horseshoeing 
to prevent delays in 
delivering the mail.
Today, Bell engineers
are just as careful ,
in checking every
tiny detail of
telephone opera lion.
Result: America enjoys 
the worlds finest 
telephone service.
You can use it 
with confidence . . . 
with pleasure . . . 
with profit!
THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY OF PENNSYLVANIA

---------------------------------------------------

ne*tPack Ch
V*their\
00ler Setter
'Afield.
^finitely1 oste.
Evening 
School 
Section of 
Tartan
General News 
Editorial Comment 
Fraternal Organizationstie Taruecfie ]platd
Appealing 
In T.iis 
Weeks 
Issue
Phi Nu Dance 
Turkey Feathers
'Turkey Feathers Ball 
Will Feature Tempos 
By Herman Middleman
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
Dance To Be Given 
In Gym Nov. 29 
From 9 Until 1
Evening Student Council will 
hold their annual Turkey Feathers 
Ball Friday evening, November 
29th in' the Mens gymnasium 
from nine until one. It is the 
only Friday evening dance this 
year which allows an extra hour 
of dancing. You will also notice 
this is one week later than prev
iously scheduled in the hand
books due to Governor James 
proclamation setting November 
28th as Thanksgiving Day in 
Pennsylvania.
This ball is not just another 
dance. Student Council has been 
fortunate enough to engage the 
services, of an unusual name 
band of the Pittsburgh district, 
Herman Middleman and his or
chestra. We have all heard his 
music over the air waves, emanat
ing from the Nixon Cafe and a 
later extended engagement from 
the Yacht Club. Featured as vo
calist will be Shirley Heller with 
her sweet songs, and as if you 
didnt know, Miss Heller is the 
sister of Pittsburghs own Jackie 
Heller also of the networks and 
stage. Herman Middlemans style 
is well known and will be versa
tile enough for all types of danc
ing.
We also encourage all the la
dies to dress up, and we mean 
LONG dresses. After reading the 
numerous letters to the Editor con
cerning this subject, it is a well 
established fact that men will en
joy seeing their girls in something 
else rather thap. street clothes at 
this more or less semi-formal oc
casion.
The gym will be decorated 
Thursday afternoon (Thanksgiv
ing Day) November 20th from one 
until five oclock. Points may be 
earned toward your Insignia so 
please come out to help make this 
a festive event. Extra points are 
given for advertising posters. Turn 
these over to Lou Fosner or J. H. 
Gummo as soon as possible. Tick
ets may be obtained from your 
fellow- workers who will receive 
n point for each ticket turned in 
at the door accompanied by a 
dollar.
Holiday programs and beauti
ful corsages will be presented to 
the first' two hundred couples. 
Make your Holiday complete by 
attending. We assure you a good 
time.
Kn^iiiKer Notices
deT.sF dTt 
te.,t *tss 
KnT5tss. *.Tnl.pp 
.gT *testT5inl 
ssge.se3 8.slTTT 
de3lie 8m55.Tn 
wmmSC. 2.pp,gT 
.lT 2.kPmTT 
r.5te3 JmTf 
RegTP BTTN
Organization meeting of Even
ing Engineers Social Committee 
will be held at 10:30 P. M. Mon
day, December 2nd, in New Car
negie Union, located at Forbes 
and Beeler streets.
All Engineering Students inter
ested in earning points toward an 
Insignia are urged to attend, or 
explain absence in a letter or note 
addressed to Evening College of 
Engineering, C. I..T., Box 353.
Phi Kappa Phi 
To Honor Two 
Night Students
Arthur Fred Saxon 
And Jaines Franz 
Will Share Honors
Once each year the Carnegie 
Day celebration takes place, this 
year to commemorate the one 
hundred and fifth anniversary of 
the birth of the Institutes foun
der, Andrew Carnegie.
Among the awards that are 
made on this occasion, which will 
be held at Carnegie Music Hall, 
10:30 a. m. to 1:30 p. m., Tues
day, Nov. 26. is that of recogniz
ing the scholastic accomplish
ments of students in all of the 
three Evening School divisions.
This year two Engineering stu
dents of the Evening School, Ar
thur Fred SaxonMechanical En
gineering, and James Henry 
Franz  Electrical Engineering, 
have earned recognition by the 
National Honor Society of Phi 
Kappa Phi. Mr. Saxon and Mr. 
Franz, who are candidates for 
Bachelor of Science degrees in 
their respective schools in the 
June, 1941, graduating class, are 
the first students to receive this 
honor.
Noember 22nd, 1940. 
Dear Editor:
The Plaid is our only source 
of definite information regarding 
school activities and other general 
campus functions. From it we 
learn of calender changes, election 
results, scheduled attractions, and 
numerous other subjects of vital 
importance to all evening stu
dents. The most important of 
these are the articles written of 
the dances at Carnegiethe finest 
dances held.
In the recent issues of the Plaid, 
numerous letters have been writ1en suggesting that more of the 
fairer sex who attend these dances 
should wear gowns so that the 
lost element of beauty and color 
would once again return to the 
Gym and Thistle Hall. I, too, 
think this a worthy suggestion for 
there has been a definite drop 
in the quality of our dances in 
the last few years.
Why cant there be a definite 
statement in the Plaid encourag
ing the wearing of gowns at our 
dances when the majority of our 
students so desire it? If this would 
be done, then I am sure that a no
ticeable change would take place 
and our dances would again re
turn to the high standard of qual
ity that once prevailed on the 
Carnegie Tech campus.
EVENING STUDENT.
of each girl wearing a gown was 
one of defiant pride. From this 
I could clearly see three lovely 
ladies fighting the cause of lovely 
womenhood. To them as a man, 
I say, "Thanks and carry on. It 
may have seemed to them that 
they received scornful stares for 
being out of place and improper
ly dressed. This is not true. They 
were properly dressed. Evening 
gowns at Carnegie Tech evening 
dances always have been in order 
and proper. They should always 
be so; they will always be so. 
What they may have mistaken for 
scornful stares were not scornful 
at all. They were, instead, stares 
of envy. No, not envy because 
they own gowns, but envy because 
they had the courage and convic
tion to be beautiful when the oc
casion called for it in spite of what 
anyone else did.
EVENING STUDENT.
Dear Editor:
At the Arts Dance I saw only 
three evening gowns. And I no
ticed that the facial expressions
Editor's Note:
As editor of the Plaid I can 
make no statement' regarding the 
current dressing controversy be
cause there has been no official 
poll of the students taken. Most 
of the correspondence we have 
received has favored dressing for 
the dances, and I personally feel 
the same way about the prob
lem.
Of course I dont say you should 
always dress; informality is a wel
come change occasionally, but I do 
think that all those who can 
should dress for the four Council 
dances.
Annual Drive 
Ends Friday
Student Workers 
Aid In Campaign
On Friday, November a", ^lie 
current campus Community Fund 
Drive will close. This year, -as in 
past years, the drive has been 
under the able supervision of Mr. 
Kent Shaffer.
Because of the critical situation 
which exists here, a raise in the 
Fund Goal has been necessary, 
with a consequent increase in the 
Tech quota. This year our quota 
is $5,200.
This year the presidents of the 
various colleges have appointed 
groups of volunteer student work
ers to solicit the aid of the even
ing students. There will be no 
effort made to force anyone to con
tribute, for the officers know that 
most of you have made your con
tribution at your place of em
ployment. If a student worker ap
proaches you, remember that he 
is only, doing a job, and if you 
can, give him something. Most 
of us are working now and will 
never miss a small piece of 
change.
Your contribution, however 
small, will mean a great deal to 
those less fortunate. If you were 
not contacted by a student work
er, you can make a donation by 
placing it in an envelope ad
dressed to Mr. Kent Shaffer, and 
putting it in the inter-school mail 
box in the'Administration Build
ing.
IN MEMORY OF DR. IHRIG
LOST
In 1920 Doctor Ihrig became 
Director of the Evening School. 
For 20 years he worked so faith
fully at his task that to every 
night school student, he was the 
Night School. And well he might 
be so considered for his efforts 
were bent to bring it to its present 
high state of development, to im
prove its facilities, to insure good 
teaching, to raise its standards. He 
was a student of all types of parttime and adult education, having 
served four years as an official of 
urban universities. and he ever
sought to bring to our Evening 
School at Carnegie the result of 
his education.
In all ways his efforts were 
spent to improve the Evening 
School, to raise it to a place of 
permanent importance. His 
thought was ever of the students; 
their affairs, large and small were 
given first place in his busy life, 
and many a discouraged student 
found solace in a talk with him.
Today the Evening School 
mourns for Doctor Ihrig as one 
whom it loved deeply.
A third year insignia with R. 
Shoff engraved on back was lost 
on the campus last Friday. Please 
return to Registrars office.
They Dressed 
In Those Days 
Why Not Now?
Fraternity 
HoldsDance 
December 7
Distinctive Music 
To Be Furnished By 
Ches Walters Band
Thistle Hall will be the scene 
of the Annual Christmas Dance 
sponsored by Phi Nu fraternity, 
to be held on Saturday evening, 
December seventh.
Genial and capable Ches Wal
ters will bring his well-known or
chestra to the Tech Campus once 
again, and from nine 'till twelve 
do his very best to provide 
smooth music for his dancing au
dience. Ches last appearances 
here were for the Arts and En
gineering Dances last fall..
Decorations will follow the 
Christmas Holiday theme, with 
colored lights facing the crystal 
ball, providing the lighting ef
fect. The hall will seem cozier 
than ever before, reports Bill 
Black, who is Chairman for the 
evening.
The dance is open to everybody, 
and especially to the evening stu
dents of Carnegie Tech and their 
friends. Admission will be one 
dollar per couple.
Phi Nu, the sponsor of the 
Dance, is a social fraternity of 
long standing on the Tartan Yard, 
having been organized since 1916. 
Although its members meet to
gether socially about once each 
month, the Christmas Dance which 
its holds each year is the only 
event open to anyone who wishes 
to attend. It is at this dance that 
Phi Nu often chooses men of the 
caliber needed to fill its ranks; 
men to whom the fraternity later 
sends invitations to become one of 
its numbers.
Remember the dateSaturday, 
December seventh; the place, 
Thistle Hall; the orchestra, Ches 
Walters; the time, nine till twelve; 
the sponsor, Phi Nu Fraternity.
Opportunity
Council loiuls; Gel 
Them On Thursday
Are you bringing your best date 
to the Council Dance on Novem
ber 29th? Usually when you 
take your best date out you like 
to brag or show off your achieve
ments. Why not come out on 
Thursday afternoon and help dec
orate for the dance? Spend the 
afternoon from 1 to 5 earning 
three council points and work up 
an appetite for the Thanksgiving 
turkey.
If you cant get a date for the 
dance come out and work from 9 
to 1 and while youre working 
keep an eye on your best date 
dancing with somebody else.
The final three council points 
can be earned by coming around 
on Saturday afternoon from 1 to 5 
and help clean up.
The Carnegie Plaicl
Page edited by Evening School 
Students of Carnegie Institute of 
Technology. All views or opin
ions expressed in editorial column 
are not necessarily endorsed by 
the Editorial Board of the Day 
School Staff.
1Fm3.e 
1FcgeF binn 
btcn 1Fm3.e 
m, _msste 
dnn.hmg3t 1Fm3.en 
dFtsmTt binn 
_ms3.T *tss 
u3gpp
bgThN Btcmn 
u3tSt _gehmTsNT 
_geN _hwte,.33 
.htsNT otgengss
wgSmF o.33sfetc 
9g3ltemTt oinPTe 
Al.,gn ugSgft 
JgN uhlcge3 
r.TgsF ul.e3 
w.e.3lN Wst3n
YOUR NEXT PACKMAKE
Every step in tho making of Chesterfield 
Cigarettes is supervised by skilled in
spectors. One is hero shown examining 
a "hand" of tobacco before it ones to
Every step in tho making of ( 
Cigarettes is supervised by 
spectors. One is hero shown 
a "hand" of tobacco before
tht stommnrv whnrA i
spokiuo. One is nero mown examti 
a "hand" of tobacco before it got 
the stemmery where every part of 
stem is removed. (As seen in the new 
"TOBACCOLAND, U. S. A. "J
rrent hitstem is removed. 
"TOBACCOLAND
i[[Mll
BETTE DAVIS
starred in Warner Bros, cu 
"THE LETTER"
Copyright 1910, ]
THE CARNEGIE TABTAN TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 26, 1940
