<3Ihc Cartiere tartan
Vol. 35 No. 5CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1941
President's Tribute
President Doherty of Carnegie Tech paid the following tribute 
to Professor Howec:
"Through the death of Professor H. S. Hower, head of the De
partment of Physics, the Carnegie Institute of Technology has lost 
one of its distinguished teachers. In 1906, one year after the open
ing of the Institute, he became a member of the faculty, and from 
that time 011 has given unsparingly of his loyal and efficient services. 
Because of his human interest, his sincere consideration, and his 
kindly disposition, he was known as Happy Hower. He typified 
the ideal professor and administrator.
Off the campus, Professor Hower gained equal recognition. 
He was distinguished also as a technical expert and made outstand
ing scientific contributions in the field of glass and optics.
The faculty, students, and alumni will miss his kindly counsel, 
his wise and inspiring leadership, and the example he has set 
throughout thirty-five years of our institutions history.
Vol..3 5.NCAR EGISl 
TU OC.UGRR.C F.HGC
Head of Physics 
Department Noted 
For Achievements
Professor Harry Sloan Hower, 
head of the Physics Department 
here at Tech, died early last Fri
day morning, October 10, at Mercy 
Hospital, Pittsburgh, after an ill
ness of three weeks.
Professor Hower. who was 64, 
had. served with the Carnegie Tech 
faculty since 1906, the year follow
ing the opening of the Institute.
He held the unique honor of having 
taught more Carnegie men than 
any other member of the faculty.
This was due to the fact that all 
engineering students took his phy
sics class. So interesting a lec
turer was he that his students rare
ly, if ever, cut his lectures. His 
jolly countenance and friendly air 
made him one of the best beloved 
figures of the Institute.
Beyond his teaching duties, he 
was designer of lenses for range 
lights for the Panama Canal Com
mission, United States Navy Sub
marines, U. S. Army searchlights, 
the Norwegian merchant marine, 
and others. He was consultant for 
the Corning Glass Company. He is 
listed in Whos Who in America" 
for his scientific and educational 
accomplishments.
A native of Parker, Pa., Professor 
Hower studied at the Case School 
of Applied Science and the Univer
sity of Berlin. Prior to his coming 
to Tech he served as instructor at 
the Case school. At Carnegie lie 
first held the position of a professor 
in physics, and was appointed head 
of the department in 1915.
He was a fellow of the American 
Physical Society, of the American 
Association for the Advancement 
ol Science; and a member of the 
American Optical Society, the So
ciety for the Promotion of En
gineering Education, the American 
Ceramic Society, the Illuminating 
Society, the English Society of Glass 
Technology, and the Pennsylvania 
Academy of Science. In addition 
to this, he belonged to the honor
ary societies of Sigma Xi and Tau 
Beta Pi. and the social fraternity 
of Theta Xi.
. . V oV lV o.35N
lCAAR EAGI S. 
T5U5OF5 H5LGAY
Between halves at the football 
game this Saturday, the ten mem
bers of the Sully clan will be pre
sented medals by the wife of the 
late Edward F. Sullivan.
Mrs. Sullivan will be accompan
ied by Mrs. Robert E. Doherty, and 
Mrs. Webster N. Jones.
The Sully clan is composed of 
ten members of the Kiltie band 
chosen for their interest and serv
ice to the organization. The clan 
was organized to recognize the band 
members who were doing outstand
ing work, and to provide a board 
of managers to determine the poli
cies of the band. Each year ten 
outstanding members are chosen 
for the clan and awarded medals.
The clan was appropriately 
named the Sully clan in memory 
of the beloved Edward F. Sullivan, 
who came to Tech in 1913, and led 
the band from the time of its con
ception until the fall of 1938 when 
J. Vick OBrien was put in charge. 
The clan originated last year and 
was formally announced at the an
nual Kiltie Band banquet. This 
fall witnesses the first of the 
presentations which will become an 
annual affair. The students receiv
ing the honor are Dee Andella, 
chairman, Dwight Baker, Chris 
Bauer, Myron Boatman, Ted Ebert. 
William Gray, Charles Jones, Rich
ard Schumann, Lawrence De
Simone, and Paul Wines.
Physics Dept.
Used As Scene 
Of Defense Film
Several Hollywood photographers 
were recently put to work by the 
United States Government at the 
Training Film Production Labor
atory. The sole purpose of this 
production laboratory is to make 
pictures for the army which will 
help it in its defense training.
The government has asked the 
Administration for permission to 
use its Physics department as the 
scene for a forthcoming film which 
will be produced by the Training 
Film Production Laboratory. In a 
few weeks an advance detail will 
arrive at Tech to make a prelim
inary survey of the Physics depart
ment and to consult with this de
partment about the film. The de
tail will be made up of three men: 
Lieutenant Smith, formerly a Phy
sics student and part-time in
structor at Tech, who will be in 
charge of animation, Mr. Rubin, 
who will direct the production; and 
Corporal Shore, the script writer. 
After the scenario is written a com
plete camera crew of six or eight 
men will follow with equipment to 
accomplish the photography.
The film itself will be called Ele
ments of Electricity and will deal 
with subjects and experiments in 
the electrical field. One of the 
Physics laboratories in Engineering 
Hall will be used as the scene of 
the film, and army men from the 
Signal Corps at Fort Monmouth will 
take part in it. Of course, all the 
equipment for the experiments' will 
be furnished by the school. When 
the picture is finished it will be re
leased to the army and will be used 
as an instructive measure for de
fense training.
Men Form New 
Discussion Group
A new discussion group is being 
formed on the campus for the in
terest of all male students. No 
program has as yet been drawn up, 
since the members are going to be 
given the opportunity to choose the 
particular type of organization they 
prefer. One week from today, 
Tuesday, October 21, the first or
ganization meeting will be held in 
Industries Hall 229 F. at 12:30. Any
one interested should attend.
The need for such a group is fair
ly obvious, and its quite surpris
ing that the campus does not al
ready support one. Mr. Chapmanl 
sponsor of the new club, led a 
similar one a few years back. It 
was known as The Safety Valve. 
At these meetings opinions were 
traded, and students were given the 
opportunity to crystallize their 
ideas under searching discussions.
A nucleus is assured the new 
club, so dont feel that it is just 
an upstart idea that will quickly 
disintegrate. Those who cant at
tend the first meeting should leave 
their names with Mr. Chapman in 
I. H.- 229 F.
,AGU5P5IB S5YBY 
DILOUGB5 H.NBGAOBR 
14 9IL5NAGYYOI5I
This Year's Orientation Tests 
show almost exactly the same re
sults for this years freshman class 
as they did for the freshman class 
of last year, although the range of 
grades is somewhat greater. Neither 
of these two classes quite measure 
up to the students who entered in 
1939, for that group attained the 
highest average on orientation tests 
than any freshman class which has 
ever entered Tech.
Among the students there seems 
to be a general belief that the 
orientation tests are of no value, 
except in the placing of freshmen 
in various math and English classes. 
However, figures show that the re
sults of these tests will generally 
indicate what factor a freshman will 
get.
Last years freshman class, for 
example, was split into five groups 
on the basis of their score on the 
placements: the top 10 per cent of 
the scores, called the A group; 
the next 20 per cent, called the B 
group; the average 40 per cent, 
called the C group, the next low
est 20 per cent, called the D 
group; and the lowest 10 per cent, 
known as the E group.
Of these five groups the follow
ing findings are based on their 
complete years work.
In Class A, 51 per cent with 
this ranking completed the years 
work with a factor of 3.00 or better, 
and only 15 per cent were below 
average or failed to complete the 
year.
In Class B, 20 per cent com
pleted the year with factors of 3.00 
or better. 75 per cent were above 
average of the class.
In Class C, the students were 
evenly divided between above and 
below average scholarship. 50 per 
cent completed the year with aver
age or better factors, but only 3 per 
cent were above 3.00 level, and 25 
per cent were below 1.25 or failed 
to complete the year.
In Class D, only 28 per cent of 
this group were above average in 
scholarship. Very nearly one-half 
were below the 1.25 factor level, 
and 20 per cent of this group drop
ped out before the end of the year.
In Class E, only 20 per cent of 
this lowest group were above the 
1.25 level, and 29 per cent dropped 
out before the end of the year.
Lack of ability is the primary [ac
tor in student mortality. Twothirds of all freshmen who drop
ped out before the end of the year, 
for one reason, had D or E rat
ings on the placements. The 
chances of a student with one of 
these ratings dropping out are 4Vol 
times as great as they are for stu
dents with higher ratings.
However, it must be pointed out 
that the ratings on the placement 
tests do not determine what type 
of grades the individual student will 
receive, but rather that the average 
of all the students will bear out the 
findings of the tests. Study habits, 
living conditions, and other varia
bles will necessarily affect the 
grades of individuals, so that there 
may be some unusual results.
Get Going!
Bring Your Sally 
To Tea Dance Rally
Comes Thursday, at four oclock, 
and the biggest and best tea dance 
ol this and any other year will 
take place in its usual habitat 
Thistle Hall. The dance, appropri
ately called the Beat Notre Dame 
Tea Dance, will be the spark which 
will set off the festivities to the 
Notre Dame game and Homecom
ing.
But, children, you havent heard 
the really big news. Tom Purcell 
and his entire fourteen piece band, 
which was the sensation of the 
Fall Carnival Variety Show, will 
play for the occasion. The price is 
a mere pittance for an occasion 
such as this25 cents.
Not only the fact that this fourteen-piece band is the largest ever 
to play for any tea dance, but that 
this dance will be jn the nature of 
a pre-pep rally to Friday nights 
huge bonfire should be enough for 
any die-hard rug cutter. In ad
dition, Tom Durbin and his crew 
will be at the dance, not as so
cialites, not as members of the 
band, but as cheerleaders to really 
get some spirit into the shindig.
So there you area fourteenpiece band, six cheerleaders, about 
a thousand Techites to dance with, 
and all for 25 cents. Now if that 
isn't enough to Ret you hopping 
over to Thistle IlaTPat 4 o'clock on 
Thursday, hurry right down to the 
drug store, buy a goodly portion 
of arsenic, and use it as a flavoring 
for your dessert.
Thistle Notice
It was originally planned that 
the scheduling of Senior pictures 
would only last for the two weeks 
ending last Friday. Because so 
many Seniors have failed to make 
appointments, however, the booth 
in Administration Hall will be open 
during the rest of this week. All 
Seniors who wish to have their pic
ture printed in the 1942 Thistle 
must have scheduled an appoint
ment for a .sitting by this Fri., 
October 17. No pictures will be 
' scheduled following that date.
Appointments may be made at 
the Thistle table in Administration 
Hall every day from 11:30 to 1:30. 
When the appointment is made, the 
student must pay his two dollars, 
which covers the cost of the pic
ture and yearbook. .Pictures are 
taken on the third floor of Indus
tries Hall.
A. P. O. Smoker
A get acquainted" Smoker will 
be presented by Alpha Omega at 
8:00 P. M. on Thursday night, Oc
tober 16) at the Carnegie Union, 
Forbes Street. The purpose of this 
Smoker is to give opportunity for 
members of A. P. O. to become bet
ter acquainted with Tech students 
who have been, at some time or 
other, active Boy Scouts, and. who 
are interested in furthering the 
work conducted by this honorary 
organization.
The Two Orphans
ECILISR TYGA ,I33 VGIR.A 
PBSl 5G3.DCILISBo OC.DNoSB.A
The Two Orphans," a nineteenth 
century melodrama, will be the 
opening production of the Drama 
Department for this season. The 
play is scheduled in the Little Thea
ter, Fine Arts Building, to run from 
Thursday, October 23, through 
Thursday, October 30, with a mat
inee performance Friday afternoon, 
October 24.
Admission to the performances 
will be, as in the past, by tickets 
available at the Registrars office, 
shortly before the opening of the 
production.
Written by two popular French 
dramatists, Adolphe dEnnery and 
Eugene Cormon, The Two Or
phans was given its first presen
tation at the Theatre Porte St. Mar
tin, Paris, in January, 1874. Its 
success resulted in an English adap
tation, presented at the Royal 
Olympic Theatre, London, in Sep
tember of the same year.
Three months later, on December 
21, it was presented by A. M. Pal
mer at the Union Square Theatre, 
New York City, where it enjoyed a 
tremendously successful run of 180 
performances. Kate Claxton was 
such a hit as the blind orphan that 
she later bought the rights in the 
play from Palmer and continued to 
exploit it for a period of twenty 
years.
Subsequently, it became a stand
ard vehicle for stock and touring 
companies and held its place in 
public favor until early in this cen
tury. It was also made into a mo
tion picture by D. W. Griffith in 
1922 under the title of Orphans of 
the Storm, with Lillian and Dor
othy Gish as the sisters. D. W. 
Griffith will be remembered as the 
producer of such Hollywood extra
vaganzas as "Birth of a Nation.
The Tech players are endeavoring 
to present the play in a sympathetic 
manner, rather than to burlesque it, 
as has been the policy of the Amer
ican theater during the past few 
years in the presentation of nine
teenth century melodramas. They 
feel that it is time to make an at
tempt to exhibit some of the virtues 
of these same plays. Apart from 
technical cleverness, this type of 
play has charm, naive sincerity, and 
even touches of ironic wit.
Mr. Henry Boettcher, head of the 
Department of Drama, is the Direc
tor of the production. The settings 
have been designed by Lloyd Deninger.
Jane Lloyd-Jones, 43, and Pa
tricia Meyer, 43, are cast as Henriette, one of the two orphans. The 
other orphan is to be played by Mu
riel RosofT, 44, and Ruth Storm, 
44. The policy of having a double 
cast, each to perform on alternate 
nights, will be pursued throughout 
most of the cast of characters.
Lester Stanford, 43, and Richard 
Rose, 43, fill the role of Jacques 
Frochard, an outlaw. La Frochard, 
mother of Jacques, is to be played 
by Elsie Cox, 43, and Elizabeth 
Root, '42. Other leading members 
of the cast are Christopher Smith, 
'43, and Roland Kraus, '42, as 
Chevalier Maurice de Vaudrey, and 
Anne Alexander, '44, and Molly van 
Amerigen, '42, as Countess Diane de 
Linieres.
, T.r5NB oV EG4455
1.SCG EILG 4ILG 9.YR 
F.LGre.LBAs VolGDN3G
President Doherty 
And College Heads 
Arc Main Speakers
Techs 15th Annual Homecoming 
is to be held this week-end. In 
spite of the fact that the TechNotrc Dame game, which is to be 
the feature attraction of the Home
coming, does not promise to be the 
hotly contested battle characteristic 
of former games, the alumni inter
est is high, and a record attendance 
is expected.
The program for the affair., pc-. 
tends from the afternoon welcome 
reception in the Union on Friday 
to the Homecoming dance to be held 
Saturday night. In charge of the 
entire proceedings is Mr. Robert H. 
Caffee, President of the Pittsburgh 
Mens Clan.
The incoming Alumni will regis
ter at the Carnegie Union on Fri
day afternoon, and at that time will 
be welcomed by the faculty, ad
ministration, and local alumni. 
Dinner will be held at 6:30 in the 
Hotel Schenley. The after-dinner 
program includes addresses by Dr. 
Doherty, and by the heads of the 
three colleges, Dr. Webster N. Jones, 
Dr. Charles Watkins, and Dean 
Kccble. The alumni welcome will 
be presented by Mr. William B. 
SkInkle, President of the Alumni 
.Federation. Following the dinner 
the Reunion Classes, the classes of 
'11, '16, '21, '31, '30, will get to
gether.
The Alumni Council meeting is 
to be held on Saturday morning at 
the Union. At this time the elec
tion of 0 flic or 8 will take place. The 
presidential nominee Is Mr. Steen, 
Arts, '08; and Mr. Caffee Is I hr 
nominee for vice president. Lunch
eon will be held at noon in the 
Union. Following this* the alumni 
will attend the grid game at Pitt 
Stadium.
After the game there will be a 
cocktail party and buffet supper at 
the Hotel Schenley. The festivities 
will be concluded with the Home
coming dance to be held at the 
Hotel at 10:00 P. M.
ItomrromlnR ProRrnm
Woicomo Reception ........................................
.............Friday afternoon, CnrncKle Union
Alumni Inner .................................................
...........Friday. 0:110 P. M.. Hotel Schohloy
Reunion .35NNCAR mcetlniJK...........................
..................Friday evening. Hotel Schenley
Alumni Council mooting.................................
.........SnlUrdny . mornlnfj, Carnci'le Union
Alumni Luncheon ............................................
..................Snturdny noon, Cnrnctfio Union
Tech-Notre Dnme mime.................................
...........Snturdny, 2:00 P. M.. Pitt Stadium
Coclctnll Party ...................................................
.............Saturday afternoon, Motel Schcnely
Bullet Supper ...................................................
. . .Saturday. 10:00 P. M.. Motel Schenley
Homecoming Dance ........................................
............Saturday evening, Hotel Schenley
TV e5Usi SV TOA5R 
dGP5L B. S.n 
T1SE ,.YOBO.IY
Robert Beck, 42, has been ap
pointed Cadet Colonel of the Car
negie Tech Engineering Unit or 
the R. O. T. C. for the current year. 
The other major advancement In 
the department is the appointment 
of Thomas Riley, 42, to Cadet 
Lieutenant Colonel. The appoint
ments wore awarded on the basis 
of grades, record at summer camp, 
military bearing, arid extra-cur
ricular activities.
This year, for the first time, the 
Signal Corps and the Engineers are 
organized as separate units; Instead 
of the usual one regiment of com
bined troops, there will be an En
gineer Regiment and an additional 
separate Signal Corps Company. 
Each unit will be officered by its 
own Seniors and Juniors. The 
Signal Corps separate company 
will be commanded by Cadet Ma
jor James McDowell '42.
Ail juniors will be Sergeants, 
and at the beginning of the sec
ond semester, the department plans 
to appoint selected Sophomores to 
the grade of Corporal.
The following Senior appoint
ments were also made: Cadet Ma
jors, O. C. Griffith, J. T. OBrien, 
R. W. Wolf, and A. H. Parthum, Jr.; 
Cadet Captains, G. S. Shephard, 
M. E. Shank, B. L. Weehsler, F. F. 
Rudolph, J. Theilacker, F. L. Stulen, 
C. E. Beckman, W. J. Mattern, and 
J. I-I. Salisbury. Remaining ap
pointments were made to Cadet 
First Lieutenants, Cadet Second 
Lieutenants, Cadet Master Ser
geants, Cadet First Sergeants, and 
Cadet Staff Sergeants.
Huge Rally PJ anned 
For Irish Contest
What should be the biggest pep 
rally Carnegie Tech has ever seen is 
planned for this Friday night in 
preparation for the Tartan-Irish 
game Saturday. The Kiltie Band in 
full dress will assemble in front of 
the mens dorms at eight P. M. to 
lead the entire student body over 
Margaret Morrison Street, down 
Forbes, and into the Tech Bowl.
Never before have such elaborate 
provisions been made. There will 
be a band stand, public address sys
tem and speeches. The feature 
speaker will be a local sports 
writer, although President Doherty 
and Eddie Baker will be there and 
may speak. Tommy Durbin and the 
cheerleaders will also be present 
with some special new cheers for 
the team. A bon-fire of never-before-witnessed proportion will help 
light this, the greatest rally Car
negie has ever had.
Cwens Begin Season
Though it is still quite early, the 
Cwens have their season in full 
swing. No affairs have as yet been 
planned, but they have participated 
in many activities. They served as 
aides at the Freshman Reception 
during Freshman Week and also at 
the tea given by Dr. Doherty for the 
faculty earlier in the year. For the 
first time, they sponsored the Fresh
man traditions examination in Mar
garet Morrison and eliminated hazing, which had been the custom in 
the past. Helping the Scimitars 
with their tea dance was another 
custom inaugurated by this years 
Cwens.
The officers for Cwens are: Nancy 
Morrison, President; Betty Can
field, Vice-President; Naomi Ellman, Recording Secretary; Martha 
Jones, Corresponding Secretary; 
Jane Musser, Treasurer; and Mar
garet Crosby, Ritual Chairman.
,C.R3B VG3GoS 
e3IRR TUUBoGCR
This noon Freshmen in all schools 
will vote for their class officers 
from 11:30 to 1:20. The polling 
places are: Engineers, Administra
tion Hall; Arts, Main Hall in Arts; 
Margaret Morrison. Main Hall in 
M. M. All voters must present 
their registration cards.
The following candidates have 
been accepted:
Engineering: for presidentGil
bert Bassett, Paul Beamer, Dick 
Dahlgren, Plarold Frederick, Nor
man Parker, Kempton Roll, Rob
ert Shannpn, KJerwin Spangler, Al
fred Steinman, David Van Voorhees, 
and Mike Wander; for secretary 
George Crail, Peter Cregut, John 
Emery, Douglas Fields, Jerome 
Jacobs, Edgar King, Earl Stanley, 
Ed Sumers, and Allen Yeakel; for 
treasurerDick Arnold. Joseph 
Eiger, Roderick Keaton, Otto Magel, 
Edward McGinncss, and Robert 
Sprague.
Fine Arts: presidentEverett
Hoffman, Patty McCullough, Wil
liam Warfel, and Anita Wilhelm; 
vice-presidentTed Daniels; sec
retaryMarjorie Parke, Eleanor 
Wilson, Betty Woelfel; treasurer 
Morton Cohn, Lucille Deily, Louis 
Lavie, Irene Waichler.
M. M. C. C.: presidentPhoebe 
James, Jeanne Kesner, Audrey 
Lawrence, Mary Ann Rial, Helen 
Robinson, Betsy Ross, Olive Tishlarich; secretaryJane Bceraft. 
Martha Tawncy; treasurerJanet 
Armstrong, Anne Bcnko, Cynthia 
Blake, Beulah Meltzer, Dorothy 
Willispn; senate representative. 
Helen Pollis, Rea Simon, and Mar
jorie Woodburn.
(In tlie Record |
Today. October 14, at 12:30, 
Room 157, Arts Building, HNV 
Charles A. H. Pearson will super
vise this phonograph recital:
Fifth Symphony..........Shostakovich
Thursday, October 16, at 12:30, 
in Room 157, Arts Building, Dr. 
Frederick Dorian will be in charge 
of this program:
Eroica Symphony ..........Beethoven

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1941
Student Council Endangers 
Freedom Of The Press
l55 E.CIUOA HOICB5Y I5tB nGh5 4.N rGUshN.CILV
Laat week Student Council meeting has shown quite clearly,
I luil. Council, on the basip of a false premise, has plotted it course in 
the direction ol! censorship ol! the TARTANto the nth degree. 
Council, as the minutes of the last meeting show, has the mistaken 
conception that the TARTAN and Council work together. It holds 
the view, based on experiences of the TARTAN and Council in pre
vious years, that the TARTAN will always be antagonistic to Coun
cil. We point out that the present staff is a new stall. We hold no 
prejudices against Council. We cannot fathom the reasoning be
hind Councils opinion that it is not congruous with the TARTAN; 
that in order to check the TARTAN it must impose censorship 011 
it, unwarranted by any act of the present staff.
The TARTAN does not wish to set itself up as a crusading 
organ against Council, but a situation may well develop in which 
the TARTANs criticism would be a definite service to the campus.
Throughout the meeting various charges were made .against 
the TARTAN for the gross errors that have been made. To our 
knowledge.(there have been no errors which have been so precedentshattering that Council should feel that its duty was to debate the 
matter for more than a hour.
A number of council members who believe that it is their diity 
as representatives of the students to guard the interests of the stu
dents are convinced themselves and are striving so hard to convince 
'' ither council members that the TARTAN and TARTAN alone
d be infallible. They maintain that errors appearing in the
r are inexcusable and that only errors appearing in the TARaifeet the students and the campus. Surely Council, if it is 
the .just body that it maintains itself to be, cannot ignore the mis
takes of the other publications. But, if Council is going to argue 
over every error that appears in all school publications, and the 
severity of the error, it will never have time to do any constructive 
work.
It is interesting to note that the University of Columbia spon
sors a contest, awarding a prize to the college publication which has 
the least number of errors. If there were never any errors, the 
journalism, school would never have a need to sponsor such a 
contest.
Mr. Burton suggested that the Publications chairman or some 
other indjvidual appointed by Council read proof ol! the TARTAN, 
before it goes to press j if the copy doesnt meet with his approval, 
the paper should not come out. Mr. Burton feels that one individual, 
not acquainted with newspaper makeup and news value, would be 
;i better judge of material than the combined staff. It is implied 
that one individual could be in the position to know all information 
was correct and relevant. The suggestion carries with it the stigma 
that one individual or a small group not connected with newspaper 
work, could if so dessired, withhold publication of the paper if 
opinions and news presented did not conform to their own views. 
Though-.in all walks of life we are waging a fight against dictator
ship and censorship, Council is willing to consider a move which 
would establish a dictatorial censorship of the TARTAN.
In a Student Council letter to the TARTAN last year, the decla
ration that Council is opposed- to censorship was specifically made. 
Such an attitude 011 the part of Council is commendable. This year, 
however, Gouncil is attempting to rescind its decision not to impose 
censorship. We believe that the TARTAN should abide by the four 
points of Dr. Doherty, but we cannot see how the gross errors 
(Mrs. Yon. did not go to Wilson College as printed in the TARTAN) 
(uin come under the province ol: the Presidents four points.
The meeting developed from a dicussion ol! errors to a consid
eration of methods of penalizing llie TARTAN staff. Withholding 
salaries for various lengths of time, ranging from one month to a' 
semester, was the most widely discussed; deducting a certain amount 
for (very error was a complementing suggestion. Of course the 
severity of the errors would determine I lie amount to be deducted. 
Vote of Council determines the severity. Council feels*that no pen
ally should be levied until after the error has been made; however 
it contemplates withholding salaries for a semester. Such a move is 
imposing a severe penally on I he Staff before any wrong has been 
committed -not consistent with Council's opinion.
hor every inaccuracy found by a student, it was suggested that 
HO be paid to the student, the money to be deducted from TARTAN 
salaries. If 2,400 students find the same error, $1,200 would be 
deducted from the salaries of I he staff. The next week, if 2,400 
students found the same error, another $1,200 would be deducted 
from TARTAN salaries, leaving nothing from the $2,400 appropria
tion ol Council. At the end of the contest Council would pay its 
entire appropriation back to the students and owing approximately 
$10,000 more.
We feel that it is only fair that Council take cognizance of .the 
.hardships that would be imposed on staff members by withholding 
salaries tor any length of time or by deducting for every error that 
arises. Certain members of the staff were refused scholarship aid 
and loan aid because the school felt that they were getting aid from 
t heir salaries as members of the TARTAN staff. We ask that Coun
cil consider the problems that would confront staff members.
We ask every student to consider the seriousness of a step like 
censorship and the withholding of salaries. If Council invokes cen
sorship and its companion penalty, it will set a dangerous precedent 
for the future, for withholding the salaries-is nothing more than a 
threat to intimidate the Editor and the staff.
Tribute To A Friend
We feel deeply the passing of Professor Harry S. Iiower 
head of the Department of Physics. Many were the entertaining 
lectures that we attended at which Professor Iiower demonstrated 
his showmanship. Physics lectures will never be the same. His time 
was .the students time ; he was always willing to lend a helping hand.
Tech lias lost; a fine teacher; his career marks a milestone in 
the history of Carnegie Tech.
1nOIO.IY 5tnN5YY5L OI By5 nGh5Y .4 By5 SfTSfd GN5 By.Y5 .4 By5 P5Pa
r5NY .4 BgF5 YBG44c OI By5 UGY5 .4 By5 5LOB.NOGA U.ACPI By5R GN5 By.Y5 .4 By5 
pLOB.NV Sy5R GN5 I.B B. r5 U.IYBNC5L GY I5U5YYGNOAR By5 .nOIO.IY .4 5OBy5N 
By5 YBCL5IB r.LR .N By5 4GUCABRV
dTavtve^ie (Tartan
CnrnnRie Institute of Technology, Solienley Tnrk, Pittsburgh, Pn.
P1IONK MAYFLOWRR 3(100 PPIIONE SCHKNI.KY irr,7
n tt l*lt Ud urJI u o KOI NATIONAL ADVKHTIdlNa UV . .v, TT ,vf ,*  * j ... 0 . , After Office Hours CollNational Advertising Service, Inc.E.95Y5 ,PsAwBr5NB A9nIBOIyBBOFU dUo.Ml.-Cl.lel ........ SChc.,l,y 807
OM.O..ONAV. Nsw ECGIR SR TU B. sh.ess MnnKcr .... HA1MM CMICAUO  mi.inn * Lo. AmiLI. 1 0* P.AHCKOO AdVCrlislll|f i\Il...llg(M . . SCI.C.IC.V 993.t
Kntered nu ICCCOOFHC35NN mutter In the PlttHburgli l*ONt Ortlco under the Act of Mnrch !, 1H7II.
Published weekly during school yrnr, except liollditys nil CMimluntlou period:.Subscription Price $1,0(1 per year.
pLOB.NbOIbEyO54 ................................................................................... lGCA H.Y5Y
etOYOIUYY HGIGh5N....................................................................oGNNR frNGP.FOBu
HGIGhOIh pLOB.N......................................................................g.GII5 SOYyAGNOUy
d53Y pLOB.N..................................................................................eGNrGNG :NGP5N
fYYOYBGIB HGIGhOIh pLOB.N........................................................"OAr5NB :O35IY.I
E.nR pLOB.N........................................................................H5NU5L5Y ECIIOIhyGP
E.nR pLOB.N..................................................................................,yRAAOY eCUyPGI
ln.NBY pLOB.N...........................................................................................joc Sy.PGY
fLF5NBOYOIh HGIGh5N..............................................................lRAFGI T.Y5I4O5AL
EONUCAGBO.I HGIGh5N......................:...........................................lOLI5Ow "5r5A.3
lBG44 fNBOYB...........................................................................................pAAO.BB SBF5NR
ln.NBY ,y.B.hNGny5N.......................{.............................................EyGNA5Y 5IUOA
.AG .U SlG i.dRCff The Cuff
. . . e.r HUeNOL5
Personality, organizing ability, 
and leadership are the main, factors 
in Bob McBrides rise to campus 
prominence. Using these talents, he 
has become president of Citcom 
Clan, Budget Chairman of Student 
Council, treasurer of Tau Beta Pi, 
and chairman of the Independent 
party.
Highly active each year, he was 
assistant treasurer of Student Coun
cil last year, a debater for two 
years, and a member of Delta Skull 
in his junior year. He likes intra
mural sports and swam backstroke 
on last years swimming team. Likes 
.blondes.
-Bob has potato brown hair and 
drunkards blue eyes. Ice cream 
cones are a favorite dietary taste 
with himbecause you get twice 
as much as in a dish for the same 
price. In season he eats, lives, and 
sleeps basketball. Likes brunettes.
Follows Hattie Carnegies lead in 
the wearing of comfortable clothing. 
His dancing is smooth and runs to 
sweet instead of swing. Admitting 
that he is a bit behind the times, he 
still claims to be a loyal Wayne 
King fan. He claims Kings music 
can put him to sleep faster than 
anyone elses. He doesnt go steady 
at present, but employs a kind of 
rotating system for dating instead. 
Likes redheads.
Besides being a leader at Ben 
Avon High School, he worked as an 
amateur astronomer. However, he 
gave up the hobby because he didnt 
have enough time. This summer he
H5BV pmY fBB5IL 
0GAA E.IF5IBO.Ic 
6545IY5 6OYUCYY5L
There are approximately thirty 
students in the Department of 
Metallurgical Engineering leaving, 
for the annual convention of the 
National Metal Congress and Ex
position Monday morning, October 
20th. The convention is being held 
in Philadelphia and is sponsored by 
the American Society for Metals, 
its parent organization. Members 
of the society come from all parts 
of the country to attend the con
gress and see the exposition. Many 
present papers on research work 
being done.
Attendance among the juniors 
and seniors of the department is en
tirely voluntary; those going will 
pay their own way, which is an 
outlay of twenty dollars or more. 
The students going to Philadelphia 
are student members of the. so
ciety. Leaving Monday morning ' 
on the Pennsylvania Railroad, a 
special coach will accommodate 
them. They will remain theVe un
til Wednesday and be excused from 
all classes. Mr. Malcolmn Frank 
Iiawkes, Fellow in Metallurgy, is 
in charge of student participation 
for this trip.
Emphasis is being placed on Na
tional Defense at this meeting and 
there will be round-table discus
sions on that subject.. Ways and 
means of bettering quality and 
speed in production are to be the 
p ultimate goal of the discussions. 
All faculty members 'in the depart
ment will also be there. Dr. Rob
ert Franklin Mehl, head of the De
partment of Metallurgical Engineer
ing, has been given the singular 
honor of delivering the Campbell 
Memorial Lecture, the classic of all 
addresses, given for great merit in 
the field.
worked for the DuPont Company in 
the Industrial Engineering Division, 
Deepwater Dye Works, Salem, New 
Jersey. During the last school year 
he held down two part-time jobs. 
Now a senior in the chem. engineer
ing dept., he would like to work for 
his masters degree, or continue 
with the type of work he did this 
summer. Likes blondes.
His pet peeve is people who have 
time for extra-curricular activities 
and yet dont participate. He thinks 
that the intramural program is the 
best thing that has hit Tech for a 
long time. Likes brunettes.
He likes them all!
Dilemma
Sophomore Ponders 
Why Go Sorority?
By Helena Aronson
Reverie During Silence Period.
Which shall it be? Zeta Beta 
Dolla? Gamma Mu Cow? Nu 
Dressa? Or whatta haveyu? I am 
really in a tizzie. I cant make up 
my mind which sorority I want to 
join.
The Gamma Mu Cows got me a 
smooth man for their rushing 
formal, but then the Zeta Beta 
Dollas are such swell girls and the 
Nu Dressas are all so pretty and 
wear such beautiful clothes. Whatll 
I do? . Whatll I do? (this is a six
ty-four dollar question.)
And I shall never forget the delectible delicacies they showered on 
us. Every dish was a beautiful 
dreameven more beautiful than 
Errol Flynn in technicolor. Will I 
always get the celestial crepe 
suzettes of the Nu Dressas? the 
sublime horsey doeuvers of the Zeta 
Betas? and the adorable, grilled 
cheese sandwiches of the Gamma 
Mus?
Ah, me, this is the most import
ant decision I have ever had to 
make (except when I cant decide 
whether to get vanilla or chocolate 
at lunch). Now is the time for all 
good mommas to come -to the aid 
of their daughtas. But then my 
mater wants me to be independent 
at least until I graduate. My de
cision today will influence my . whole 
future. Will it be Zeta Beta Dolla? 
Nu Dressa? or Gamma Mu Cow?
Editors note: At the time this
paper went to press, the writer had 
not yet made up her feeble mind. 
Is she now a Zeta, a Nu, or a Mu 
Cow? For the answer to this vital 
question, read next weeks install
ment).
nNItGCR hByG eI3L3d
We citizens of the United States 
are being made to realize, unwill
ingly or otherwise, that the des
tiny of our country and of our
selves, is certainly linked with the 
destinies of the other human be
ings in the world. In an increas
ingly small world we cannot live 
as an island completely sepax-ate 
from the ideas and miseries and 
suiYerings of the rest of the world. 
We may not feel that our country 
should participate in a so-called 
European War, but we cannot avoid 
the realization that we are linked 
economically, politically, and so
cially with the peoples involved in 
this war.
With this realization often comes 
confusion and hesitancy because 
we do not know where we can be
gin to understand and even help 
our fellow human-beings, who, re
gardless of political affiliations or 
nationalities, certainly are in need 
of help from other human-beings in 
less troubled circumstances. One 
group of people that seems to have 
found a living, working social phil
osophy is the Quakers or Friends. 
These people are not a group with 
any political or social doctrines to 
advance, but rather are primarly a 
religious group which carries on 
its belief in the fellowship of hu
man-beings through the American 
Friends Service Committee.
To understand thoroughly the 
work of the American Friends Serv
ice Committee, one must under
stand the fundamental beliefs of 
the Quakers. In a brief, super
ficial way, we might say that the 
Quakers are a religious group which
Well, people, mother got my new 
shirt out this morning for me to 
wearyou know, the one with the 
French cuffs. That gave me just 
twice as much space to write my 
gossip notes on, so here goes!
First of all, we wish to render 
our deepest apologies to our many 
admirers, especially Chuck Rich
ardson and A1 Burton, who opened 
their Tartans last week to find that 
our little column was among the 
missing.
They tell us that Bill Goldsmiths 
new nickname is Lace, because 
he is always found around a skirt.
The Frear twins are no longer 
within the bounds of Schenley, but 
the memory lingers on. LaVeme 
Kapp, of the Stanton Avenue Kapps, 
proudly boasts that Jane and. Dottie 
come to visit him often. Ed Culley, 
however, was the lucky boy who 
dragged Dottie to the Fall Carni
val. Rumor has it that Dottie and 
Jane are receptionists at a photo
graphic establishment down town 
at present. We could go on and 
on like this, waxing more and more 
prolific, but enough for the Frear 
twins!
Herbie (Ducky) Asten, alias the 
Patriotic Kid, is in what might be 
mildly termed hot water these 
days. It seems that Little Beav
ers North Carolina heart-throb 
one Libby by name, who has been 
in the habit of sending him a pithy 
epistle 0i each day via special de
livery air mail, forgot about him 
for ten days. Ducky, almost in 
tears, took refuge in the pleasant 
company of Jean Carson, frosh 
Dramat. Jeanie got along with Lit
tle Beaver well enough, but en
countered trouble when she ran in
to Dave Ellis home-brewed purple geesus. In the meantime, how
ever, Libbys long-delayed letter 
arrived, and every one concerned is 
back in the old groove.
We hear that the Alpha Formal 
last Saturday night went over with 
a bang! Jeanne Howards method 
of leading the conga was approved 
by all.
Word reaches us via sour-grapevine that Ginny Wright and Jim
McGarvey were at Rolling Rock 
last Saturday.
Those of you who were lucky 
enough to catch a glimpse of Betty 
Urban, PCW freshie with Jack 
Maxwell at Fall Carnival, now 
know why Jack doesnt even bother 
with Tech women.
Whats this we hear about Jane 
Rugg being dated up six weeks in 
advance? Alex Riddle already had 
a date with her weeks ago for the 
Military Ball. Bob McBride and 
Russia Jacobson are only two of 
the fellows Alex has to contend 
with.
That gorified rat-race between 
Vem Spitaleri and Francis Crowe 
for the fair hand of Mary Fleming 
goes on and on. Vem did the 
honors at Fall Carnival.
If we have offended anyone, we 
leave you this consolation: "The 
only thing worse than being spoken 
about is not being spoken about.
Jobs Available 
For All Students
Boys interested in becoming 
blood donors will report at the of
fice to arrange for their "blood to 
be typed.
Boys wishing to work in the post 
office during Christmas, must sign 
up in the office. The first week in 
December a very comprehensive 
test on the streets of Pittsburgh will 
be given to applicants. Material 
to study for the test will be avail
able in the office after October 20.
Able bodied males capable of 
performing arduous work are 
needed to work for the Railway 
Mail Service.
Girls wishing to take care of 
children may report at the office.
All persons who have applied for 
employment must see that copies 
of their schedules are on file in the 
office.
All students who obtained sum
mer wox-k through the employment 
office must report their summer 
earnings as soon as possible.
4BfILi.o 
4ICDGAR
3531 FORBES STREET 
Delicious Chinese and American 
Food Is Served
Special Meals At Moderate Prices 
Luncheon Served From 11-3 
P. M.35c and up 
Dinner Served From 5-9 P. M. 
55c and up 
Also Special Rates For Parties
Techs Headquarters 
for Classics and Swing 
Pittsburghs 
Most 
Beautiful 
Record 
Shop
MATES MUSIC 
COMPANY
532 SMITHFIELD 
GR. 0633
LEONARD'S MEM'S SHOP
CAMPUS HEADQUARTERS FOR
ARROW PRODUCTS
Corner Forbes at Atwood
Something So
Is Missing
believe that each persons approach 
to God should be through himself 
with no intermediary or exhortation 
from outside himself. That is, each 
person, individually, must have 
this feeling of reaching his high
est and best state by feeling and 
doing what his spix*it or soul feels 
his best. This rather vague ex
planation does not do justice to the 
Friends but the important point 
that we may gleam from it is that 
they are a group with an individual, 
spix-itual appi-oach. Believing in 
doing no missionary work, they 
have a membership which is gx-eatly 
composed of people who were born 
into other faiths, and have accepted 
the Quakers approach and beliefs.
In line with their belief that each 
individual has a certain obligation 
to himself, the Friends also believe 
that people ai-e' people, that re
gardless of their xeligious or polit
ical doctrines they are fellow-beings and must be given the re
sect and frieixdship that they de
serve. Through the work of their 
Committee, the Friends make this 
belief a live, practical approach to 
alleviate suffering. Holding no po
litical doctrines attempting to do 
no converting for any cause, the 
Committee offers a helping hand 
wherever it is necessary, giving aid 
on both sides of a conflict' if it is 
possible.
The existence of such an organization, minus any publicity, offers 
proof that people can accept other 
human beings as dignified and 
worthy, and that desires and dreams 
of a social good, need not be compx-omised.
B. J. K.
fTT1v opf6k9fTSpTl
GREEK BROTHERS
440 Wood StreetDowntown

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1941THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
e.NAoB3 5BANSGR
,NOIB5L rR 1NL5N .4 lBCL5IB E.CIUOAV
The meeting, was called to order 
at 7:00 P. M.
Absent: Messrs. Moorman, Breswick, Fisher, and Frey, and Misses 
Whitney, Hogg, and Morris.
Committee Reports:
Social
Mr. Burton presented a petition 
from the Dragon Society for the use 
of Thistle Hall for a tea-dance, to 
be held October 16, from 4 until 6 p. m., to raise school spirit before 
the Notre Dame football game.. He 
moved for its approval.
Motion carried.
Elections
Mr. Kritscher reported that he 
had given the correct information 
about the coming Freshman Elec
tions to the TARTAN, but they had 
printed the date of the election as 
October 21 instead of October 14. 
He asked that the Publications 
Committee take this matter up with 
the TARTAN.
Budget
Mr. McBride presented the bud
get from the TARTAN and moved 
for its approval.
Motion carried.
Mr. McBride then presented the 
budget for the Margaret Morrison 
Senate and moved that Council ac
cept it.
Motion carried.
He then presented the budget for 
the 1941 Student Council and mov
ed A.N its approval. Mr. Hill said 
that he thought that the Presidents 
and Secretarys salaries should be 
increased to $5 more per month. He 
said that he believed the increase 
was warranted. Mr. Hill moved 
that the salaries of the President 
and the Secretary be $250 per year. 
In the following discussion Mr. Mc
Bride said that when he had made, 
out the budget he had tried to fol
low the recommendations of last 
years Appropriations Committee. 
Mr. Wines asked about the possi
bility of paying the assistant secre
taries and treasurers, and Mr. Bur
ton said that he felt the incentive 
of getting the office of secretary or 
treasurer should be enough without 
a salary.
Motion carried.
Mr. McBride moved that the Stu
dent Council Budget be adjusted to 
conform with the wishes of Coun
cil.. He added that he did not ap
prove of the budget.
Motion carried.
Mr. McBride presented the bud
get for the Military Ball from Scab
bard and Blade. Mr. Burton point
ed out that Scabbard and Blade has 
no account with Student Council, 
and if the dance did not make 
enough money, the deficit would 
have to be made up by the mem
bers of Scabbard and Blade. He 
felt that the Council should have 
some guarantee that if. there is a 
deficit, it will be made up by Scab
bard and Blade. Mr. McBiide said 
that there is a surplus in the Scab
bard and Blade account and that 
they have $100 in their treasury. 
Mr. Burton moved that it be in
cluded in the Scabbard, and Blade 
budget for the Military Ball that 
they put up a bond of at least $150 
with Student Council to cover any
Let's go to
ISLY'S
MILK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM 
CONES
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the 
College District
5808 Forbes St., Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Allies
debt that might be incurred. Mr. 
McBride withdrew his former mo
tion and asked that Student Coun
cil give the Budget Committee the 
right to approve the Military Ball 
budget if Scabbard and Blade puts 
up a bond of $150.
Motion carried.
Mi. Hill said that Scabbard and 
Blade must pay $250 down-payment on the orchestra. He asked 
Council to approve the motion that 
he be given permission to pay this 
money, which will be repaid to 
Council after the dance.
Motion carried.
Checking
Mr Zeigler reported that an at
tempt had been made to take bet
ter care of the checking problem at 
Fall Carnival.
Publications
Mr. Durbin reported that the 
Publication Policy was hard to 
formulate, because there was no 
definite basis on which to work. He 
stated, however, that accuracy and 
truth will be two of the main points 
stressed in the policy.
Fall Carnival
Mr. Bosak .thanked all the men 
and women who had worked to 
make Fall Carnival a success.
Points an ! Keys
Mr. Shoffner reported that last 
years Student Council had approv
ed a motion to buy activities keys 
for the members of Dragon, Delta 
Skull, and Scimitar Societies. One 
hundred, fifty-seven dollars and 50 
cents was spent last year on these 
keys. He moved that this motion 
to buy keys for the Honoraries be 
rescinded. In the following dis
cussion it was pointed out that the 
initiation fees for each of the Hon
oraries is decreased by $5 each year 
because it is not supposed to cost 
anything to belong to a class Hon
orary. The members feel that be
cause they work to build up the 
spirit of the school, the least Stu
dent Council can do for them is to 
buy keys. Mr. Burtn proposed 
that the incoming members of each 
honorary put $5 into a fund to buy 
hats for the incoming members and 
keys for the old members.
Motion to rescind last years plan 
for buying keys for honoraries car
ried.
Mr. McBride asked Mr. Burton 
to give his recommendation to the 
honoraries. Mr. Burton recom
mended that when the new mem
bers of honoraries are chosen next 
year, the incoming men pay the 
outgoing men what is prescribed by 
the Constitution and put $5 into a 
Student Council fund for the buying 
of hats and keys.
Old Business
Mr. Burton said that Student 
Council has made frequent recom
mendations to the TARTAN ask
ing that the Council minutes be 
printed in full. The minutes have 
not been printed completely, and 
several other important things have 
been omitted. He feels that just 
giving recommendations is no 
longer enough, and he asked Coun
cil to take some action.
Mr. Richardson said that he ob
jects to the TARTANS attitude 
about printing the minutes, but 
there are also serious mistakes in 
other articles. Mr. Burton suggest
ed that the Publications Chairman 
read the proof of the TARTAN beConcert Features 
Zino Francescatti
Zino Francescatti, the violinist 
who created the greatest sensation 
among the soloists of last season 
With the Pittsburgh Symphony Or
chestra, will be' soloist under the 
baton of Dr. Fritz Reiner at the sec
ond pair of concerts on this Satur
day evening and Sunday afternoon.
When Francescatti appeared last 
year with the Orchestra, he was 
hailed by the critics as one of the 
two greatest violinists in the world. 
The ovation that he received has 
never been surpassed by that of any 
soloist in the history of the pres
ent Pittsburgh Symphony Orches
tra.
Mr. Francescatti will play the 
Lalo. Symphonie Espagnole dur
ing the second half of the program. 
For the first half of the program, 
Dr. Reiner has scheduled Webers 
"Jubilee Overture, the American 
composer Aaron Coplands El 
Salon Mexico, and Three Move
ments from the. Symphonie Fantastique by Berlioz.
Colloffuium On Dust
Dr. R. A. Neilsen, Physicist of 
Westinghouse Electric and Manu
facturing Company will speak at 
the Physics Colloquium this Thurs
day, at 4:30 P. M. in Room 113 of 
Engineering Hall. He will talk on 
Dust Precipitation, a very time
ly topic at this time, because of the 
Pittsburgh smoke ordinance. Dr. 
Neilsen will also give some demon
stration dealing with this topic. All 
interested students are invited.
PATRONIZE
THE TECH BARBER
Only 5 Minutes From Campus 
CRAIG AT FORBES
aTPh
FOR FUN!
Turn your leisure time into 
hours by bo-wling. Come out 
and enjoy yourself!
fHpTDEfml H1lS epf9SD09 e1vDd" 
fpl
5gccpwrafpeT1 phhfwV
Three Minutes From the Campus 
25 Beautiful Alleys 
1916 MURRAY AVENUE JAckson 0266
fore it goes to press during the next 
month. If the TARTAN copy does 
not meet with his approval, it 
should not come out. Mr. Durbin 
answered that he might not be in 
a position to know whether all the 
information was correct or not.
Mr. Bergson said that when an 
inaccuracy is found, 50c should be 
paid to the person who finds the 
mistake. Mr. Burton moved that 
Student Council withhold the sal
aries of the Carnegie TARTAN staff 
until the end of the first semester, 
and if gross errors (to be determin
ed by a vote of Council) are found 
in the paper, the salaries should 
be withheld in proportion to the 
errors. The members of Council 
felt that this action would be too 
severe, because the Editor might 
not always be at fault. Miss Leister 
said that she felt there was a dif
ference between making errors and 
absolutely defying Councils request 
to print the minutes in full. Mr. 
Nierenberg asked what salaries 
would be affected. The business 
staff is entirely separate from the 
editorial staff and should not be 
penalized for mistakes in copy.
Motion defeated.
Mr. Burton moved that the sal
aries of the Carnegie TARTAN 
stall be withheld until the end of 
the first semester. At that time 
Student Council could decide what 
proportion should be paid accord
ing to the way the paper had been 
published. Mr. Bosak said that he 
felt that any deductions should be 
made immediately. Mr. Burton 
withdrew his motion.
Mr. Davis said that there should 
be some definite penalty and a way 
to inflict it. Mr. Richardson sug
gested that Council refer this prob
lem to a special committee to make 
out such a plan and present it in 
writing at the next meeting. He 
appointed Mr. Durbin as Chair
man, and Mr. Shoffner, Mr. Satter
field, Mr. Nierenberg (or a rep
resentative. from the TARTAN), 
Mr. Bergson, and Miss Leister, to 
consider all suggestions. This com
mittee is to present a report to 
Council and a motion that will han
dle this matter.
New Business
Mr. Shoffner presented a petition 
from the Intra-Mural Managers 
Club asking for a charter and of
ficial recognition as an organized 
club. They asked that members 
of this club be given activities 
points. Mr. Shoffner moved that 
Council accept this petition. The 
constitution must remain in Coun
cil office for a week before it is 
voted on; so Mr. Shoffners motion 
will be voted upon next week.
Adjournment.
Respectfully submitted, 
61T1So ,D,pTi 
Secretary.
,AGU5P5IB eCN5GC 
HGOIBGOIY oOhy 
T5U.NL 0.N 5GN
Latest figures released by Car
negie's Bureau of Placement show 
that once again Tech has main
tained its usual high percentage of 
student placement in industry. From 
latest information available, 96% 
of last years engineering graduates 
are now placed. Nothing definite is 
known of the remaining 4% of the 
class, although it is assumed that 
due to the present defense activity, 
these men too, have taken positions 
in industry.
Of the 220 engineers who gradu
ated from Tech. 22% have been 
placed by the companies by which 
they were employed in Student 
Training Groups. This means that 
alter a period of between four and 
eighteen months of specialized in
struction in the field of work for 
which these men are best fitted, 
they will take definite positions 
with their respective companies; 
14% of the graduates have gone in
to operations; 11% into Research 
and Development; 5% into Drafting 
and Design; 5% have taken posi
tions as teaching assistants or have 
received fellowships to continue 
their education: about 4% have 
been* placed as Industrial Engi
neers; and the remainder have 
gone into other fields of work.
With the National Defense pro
gram in full swing it is interest
ing to note that 10% of the grad
uates are now serving in the Army 
as Reserve Officers, while 5% are 
serving in the Navy with ensign 
commissions.
The types of industry which have 
taken the most graduates are, in 
their given order: Steel and NonFerrous Metals; Chemical and Al
lied Products; Electrical Equip
ment Manufacture; Machine Manu
facture; Aircraft Manulacture; Pa
per and Printing; and finally Con
struction.
The medium starting salary for 
last years group was $135 a month, 
and the average of the starting 
salaries was $143 a month. Ap
proximately 500 companies were in 
communication with the Place
ment Bureau relative to obtaining 
seniors from the engineering 
school, Margaret Morrison, and 
Fine Arts, and 100 companies sent 
representatives to Tech to inter
view the Seniors.
The Bureau of Student Place
ment, with Mr. C. E. Wangeman at 
its head, has four primary aims in 
its work; to assist Seniors in ob
taining employment; to see .that 
students get suitable employment; 
to place alumni who may have 
lost their jobs, and also to secure 
better jobs for the alumni; and 
finally to assist evening students, 
part-time students, and men who 
have failed to graduate, in secur
ing employment.
Committee Plans 
Un i led Fvnid Drive
President Doherty has appointed 
a committee to direct Techs con
tributions to the annual fund 
drives. This year the Community 
Fund, War Relief Agencies, and the 
United Service Organization have 
been combined into the United 
Fund and under this name the drive 
will be made. The presidents ap
pointees are: Chairman, Mr. K. S. 
Shaffer, Mr. Patton, Dr. Warden, 
and Mrs. Yon.
Pledges are to be handled the 
same as last year. Short speeches 
will be given by students to the 
various classes and then aides will 
pass out subscription envelopes 
These pledges can be paid over a 
period of time, so each student is 
urged to contribute as much as 
possible.
Tech just barely made its quota 
last year. Plans for this year do 
not include quotas for the various 
contribution centers, but each con
tribution is expected to be sub
stantially larger, since the sum 
needed is greater, due to the num
ber of organizations.
Mr. Shaffer is chairman of the 
educational group for the Pitts
burgh schools. Most of the social 
work organizations are included in 
the United Fund and the combined 
contributions will aid them greatly.
Doctor Jcky II ?
eICAGsBG 9Gol 1BslS PISolLIA 
E.Ni3GR pR pA pCSBRSbR 5.DG3
A nightwatchman, vaudeville 
performer, and artists model, com
bined in one man. That sums up 
the varied activities of Rudy Liska, 
one of Carnegie Techs regular 
night watchman, who has had a 
colorful and varied career in both 
Europe and America.
Rudy is sixty now, and has-been 
modeling for leading sculptors and 
artists for forty years. Since 1928 
he has held down his present job 
as nightwatchmen here at Carne
gie. Starting at 8:30, he makes the 
rounds of Machinery Hall and the 
Engineering Building, punching 
time clocks, checking windows and 
doors, and looking out for prowlers.
Rudys ambition has been to be 
a model till sixty, with a physique 
good enough to inspire any artist. 
Some of the nation's leading artists 
and sculptors and several outstand
ing colleges and art schools have 
used Lislca as a model.
John Watkins, whose painting, 
"Suicide in Costume, won the Car
negie International eight years ago, 
is one of the many artists for whom 
Rudy has posed. Professor Blidgcman, lecturer on anatomy; Tom 
Benton, mural painter; and Tod Mc
Kenzie, physical director at Tem
ple and New York University and 
later sculptor, are others who have 
been inspired by Liskas magnif
icent physique.
Rudy says his hardest job was 
posing for the giant piece called 
Steel at the Philadelphia Sesquicentennial, made for the Jones 
and Laughlin Steel Corporation. It
,g1 ,Tc 9Ff 1fP p1E 
9Ff ThE
pF5NR lBCL5IB pIq.RY
9Ff PpVFu149T1 
5fccwr4TrcTg1E
shows two giant workmen support
ing a third figure; which holds a 
steel rail aloft. The statue was to 
have been cast in bronze, but no 
company could make the casting re
quired. Now the statue gathers 
dust in a box car in the J. and L. 
yards.
Bavaria claims Rudolph Liska as 
a native son. lie was born there in 
1882, in a little mountain village 
nestled close to the Swiss Alps. 
German lads of those days practic
ed weight-lifting quite as much as 
American boys play baseball. 
Modeling and strong man perform
ances in vaudeville came naturally 
to young Rudy Liska. After travel
ing extensively in European vaude
ville shows, he decided to como to 
America, the land of opportunity, 
to make his fortune as a profession
al model and vaudeville actor.
But the young immigrant could 
speak no English, and was unable 
lo make the valuable connections 
that a model needs In order to' get 
a good start. So ho turned to the 
coal mines, mills, and farms to work 
as a laborer. Later, when he final
ly got his chance to model pro
fessionally, the powerful physique 
he acquired during his first hard 
years In America proved a tre
mendous asset.
Rudy still goes in for heavy oxercising, lifting three hundred 
pound weights and tossing fifty 
pound hunks of lead lifto toys. Ho 
keeps up to dale taking sun baths 
and during the summer can be fre
quently seen on the lawn of Forbes 
Hall basking in old Sols rays.
<3I3h is an alloy of zinc, aluminum and 
magnesium. It was most widely used in the 
manufacture of "housings" for telephone sets.
Now, however, new telephones re Ixjing 
made with plastic instead of Zamak "hous
ings.
This is only one of many substifutions 
already made in the Bell System's program 
to cut down its use of vifal defense materials. 
These substitutions arc being made promptly 
because Bell Laboratories have been foresightedpreparing to meet the shortages 
before they happened.

---------------------------------------------------

TOE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1941
Cum Grano Salis
This week the hand of fate pull
ed these question out of the chim
ney at Machinery Hall.
1. What is your opinion about 
Tech co-eds wearing slacks on cam
pus?
2. Do you approve of Saturday 
classes?
Signed, FATE.
Marjorie Wcatherwax, junior, 
, & D. (1.) Jf men can do it, why 
cant we? Besides, theyre com
fortable. You cant clap the soles 
of your feet together if you have on 
a skirt.  (2.) No, Saturdays too 
much of a good thing.
Brucc Taylor, freshman, print
ing (1.) No co-ed should cheapen 
herself to such a degree as to wear 
slacks on campus, but on the other 
hand. (2.) Thats a silly ques
tion.
Beth McKcnny, freshman, drama. 
(1.) "I think it is perfectly all right 
for girls to wear slacks on campus. 
If some people would forget their 
old-fashioned prejudices and real
ize the practicability of slacks, 
theyd be a lot better oil. (2.) No, 
I do  not. Relaxation is just as im
portant as classes. If a student 
knows he doesnt have to be in 
school on Saturday, he has a much 
betler time Friday night.
Tex Brahe, 1942, phys. ed. (1.) 
Chilly, ain't they? (2.) Yes, I 
think it would be a good idea if
Civijs Hold Smoker
Tonight at 8:00 p. m. there will 
be G Civil Engineering smoker in 
the Union. The smoker is one of 
several provided for by the Fresh
man Orientation Committee to help 
acquaint the Frosh with their de
partment.
There will be a talk by Dr. Thom
as of the Hydraulics Department, 
and movies of the six weeks Civil 
Engineering summer camp will be 
shown by Ray ODell. Refresh
ments will be served following the 
movies.' All members of the de
partment are urged to attend.
we had Saturday classes here at 
Tech.
Helen Pittock, senior, music. (1.) 
It depends upon the slacks, and 
the girl. Compared to the way some 
of us haggard art students get to 
looking around crews, judgments, 
and charettes, salcks would be an 
improvement. (2.) Man was not 
made to rise early, especially on 
Saturdays when Friday night is 
before and Saturday night is yet 
to come.
Walter Darby, sophomore aero. 
(1.) Disgusting! Or maybe Im 
prejudiced towaid the men wearing 
the pants in the family. (2.) They 
are my only reasons to cut classes. 
More power to them.
Susann Iowell, sophomore, gen. 
(1.) If you have pretty legswhy 
bother? (2.) If you go to church 
(and you should), when do you get 
your sleep?
It. H. Goldsborough, freshman, 
mgt. (1.) If a co-ed feels that it 
makes her look well, 1 guess slacks 
are all right. In my opinion, they 
make the wearer rather eccentric. 
(2.) Saturday classes are all right 
for people who have tough sched
ules, and we all have, tough sched
ules. dont we. fellas?
ATTENTION
TECH STUDENTS
Go To 
Oaklands Headquarters 
For Speedy Dry Cleaning: 
IN OAKLANDS ONLY
: FTgc ehfp1u14PLANT
"m
Ladles Plain 
FALL COATS 
aijid 
Mens 
TOPCOATS
Try Our 3-IIour 
CLEANING SERVICE
(slightly higher)
MODEL
VGCyBoG e.0
Cleaners x Launderors 
.'{i Forbes st. sc. 4813
CALL AND DELIVERY
East by North
Surveyors Renew 
Campus Invasion
Each year as soon as the fly sea
son has passed, myriads of little 
surveyors blossom along the main 
stem. Students casually trip over 
them or brush them aside, but these 
energetic lads keep plugging. The 
profession is an honorable one all 
right, for if my memory serves me 
correctly George Washington was 
a surveyor.
It seems strange that they have 
to measure the land every year. 
Maybe we have a shifting soil in 
this district, and each year the lay 
of the land has to be redetermined. 
There is no originality in the paths 
that the little lads take. I sup
pose they are gregarious by nature 
and like to follow each other 
around. From the bulletin board 
at the Cut, down past the Hut, up 
Margaret Morrison street, past the 
Administration Building, and back 
to the starting point trundle the 
beweighled tots. You can see the 
little tripods with heads hanging 
over distributed unevenly over the 
campus. By now, the War De
partment ought to have a hum
dinger of a topographical map. Its 
all in the interest of education, but 
it seems like so much wasted en
ergy.
First they take a sighting, and 
then they sail down the road count
ing the steps they take. A little 
mark is made on their map and 
the whole business is moved to a 
new spot and the process repeated. 
Madly Ijhey dash around the school 
trying to get the work done be
fore the winter weather sets in. 
Even though we dont understand 
the purpose of the work, we salute 
these little lads who at least think 
they know what theyre doing.
NEVEU A COVIR CHARGE
f4B5N By5 6GIU5-5BY H55B GIL pGB GB
6Tf 5pvfcbV 
eThhf4f cf1EfvkTgV
o.P5 .4 GAA IGP5 rGILY 
WASHINGTON BOULEVARD 
Sy5 .I5AR o5GNBmY EACrM
OCBASGCR 4GS 
EBRY3Id c..L
An exhibition room is one of 
the newest advancements in the 
Printing Department. Room 144-A 
in Industries Hall, which was 
formerly known as the Old Y 
study room, has been assigned to 
the printers to serve in this ca
pacity. Under the direction of 
the head of the Department, Pro
fessor Cleeton, many plans have 
been made for the near future. 
Glass paneled cases are to be built 
on the walls, and a number of reg
ular show cases have already been 
moved into the new room.
The exhibits featured will con
sist mainly of the work done here 
at Tech. Nevertheless, much of the 
material, particularly along the 
photographic lines, will be of in
terest to many of the students en
rolled in the other courses. Each 
year the American Institute of 
Graphic Arts selects a group of 
fifty outstanding related books. The 
entire series will be displayed in 
the room.
During the summer and the past 
few weeks, several changes of im
portance have taken place in the 
department. The monotype lab
oratory was soundproofed to the 
general advantage of the student 
body. Another change of import
ance was the doubling of the ca
pacity of the photography unit. 
This was accomplished by building 
a new room and remodeling two 
others.
Of interest to the upper-class 
pi'inters is the expected arrival of 
new equipment for the Lithography 
and Offset department in Indus
tries 136. A new 24 by 24 camera 
as well as another offset press is 
due very shortly. The delivery 
of the press has been delayed, be
cause of the armys need for equip
ment of this type.
S5Uy 6OYnAGRY 
vOIIOIh 65YOhIY
An exhibition of 43 architectural 
designs, selected by the Rorimer 
Medal Competition of the Amer
ican Institute of Decorators, is now 
being displayed by the Carnegie 
Tech Department of Architecture. 
Each design is accompanied by a 
perspective drawing in color and 
with details.
The competition, sponsored for 
the past five years by the Amer
ican Institute of Decorators, has 
drawn entries from 16 schools and 
institutes of decoration in 11 states. 
The three prize winners in this con
test were from New York schools.
The contest problem was a com
bination living room for a family 
of four, the furnishings not to ex
ceed a cost of $3,000. The student 
was required to furnish a cost 
sheet. Six hundred square feet of 
door space was allowed with a 
ceiling not over nine feet.
Members Elected 
To Claymore Clan
At its regular meeting this Thurs
day evening, Claymore Clan, mens 
dormitory honorary, will induct 
fifteen new members.
The men, elected last Thursday 
night, were selected on the basis 
of scholarship, activities, and po
tentialities for the future. Four 
seniors, four juniors, and seven 
sophomores were elected.
Those named were: Seniors
Robert Challener, Rogers Way. Jack 
Satterfield, and Duncan del Toro; 
JuniorsDonald Jordaho, Donald 
Van Orman, Philip Bash, and Wil
liam Philipchuk; Sophomores  
Wallace Carpenter, Raymond War
ner, David Brunstetter, Alfred Sul
livan, Marvin Goldberger. Joseph 
Notareschi, and Howard Etzel.
*YWl You Getchell39 VtBi. FICCBGCR
E.HA OBSS BA
Each time you taste ice-cold Coca-Cola, you are reminded 
that here is the quality of genuine goodness. Experience* 
many a refreshing experience... has taught people everywhere to trust the quality of Coca-Cola.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COIA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA B01TUMG COMPANY, PITTSBURGH, PA.
The referee paces off a fifteen 
yard penalty against Tech and from 
the stands comes the murderous 
howl, Oh you Getchell. To the 
Senior Class this cry is perfectly 
understandable, for who of them 
could ever forget the memorable 
circumstances which led up to it. 
To the members of the other three 
classes, however there may be some 
doubt as to the origin and reason 
behind .the branding of Getchell 
to a referee who has penalized 
Tech.
On the eve of another Tech-Notre 
Dame game students and alumni 
alike will recall the great Tech 
teams of old and the gridiron bat
tles they fought with Notre Dame. 
Of these, few will be revived with 
as great interest as the 1938 en
counter and the nation-wide reper
cussions it had. Let us see what 
happened that day.
Both teams were undefeated go
ing into the game and a possible 
National Championship was involv
ed. It was a tough, hard-fought 
game, and at the end of the third 
quarter neither team had scored, 
although Tech was outplaying the 
Irish. Then in the early minutes 
of the final quarter, with Tech in 
possession of the ball on its own 47 
yard line, the incident,- the now 
famous Getchell incident, occured.
Here we interrupt our story to let 
Mr. Getchell himself tell you ex
actly what happehed from that 
point on. The Publishers of Esquire 
Magazine, quite opportunely, have, 
in their November issue which will 
be on the news stands in a few 
days, an article written by Mr. 
Getchell dealing, in part, with that 
Tech-Notre Dame game of 1938, 
and they have permitted us to re
print certain portions of his story. 
Now Mr. Getchell takes over.
Tech had the ball on its own 
47-yard line, a yard to go for a first 
down.
I promptly answered, Third 
down. Friedlander called a run
ning play in an effort to get that 
extra yard and a first down. Techs 
back, Carnelly, fumbled but recov
ered, still short of a first down. 
Tech then lined up into a fourthdown kick formation. Noti'e Dame 
objected, took possession of the ball. 
That started the storm. Head Lines
man, Joe Lipp, informed me it had 
already been fourth down and that 
the Engineers had lost the ball on 
downs. Right then and there I ad
mitted I had made a mistake. I had 
called the wrong down.
The Tech players blew up. 
Coach Bill Kern of Tech rushed 
onto the field to protest as did Coach 
Elmer Layden of the Irish. There 
was nothing more for me to do but
admit the mistake, and since the 
rule books dont provide a penalty 
against the referee, something I 
wish there had been at that mo
ment, I had to tell the irate Techmen the ball belonged to Notre 
Dame.
Three plays later the Irish had a 
touchdown and that was the ball 
game. I have no doubt that the 
strong Carnegie team was disorgan
ized by the decision. And prob
ably the touchdown was a direct 
result of my mistake. There was 
no choice but to give the ball to 
Notre Dame.
Crash! The following Monday it 
hit me like an earthquake. That 
Widseth incident was nothing com
pared to this. (Dealing with another 
part of this storyEd.) From Car
negie Techs home in Pittsburgh, 
Bill Kern aimed a verbal blast at 
me that all but burned the Associat
ed Press wires. It was the biggest 
bonehead play I ever saw pulled by 
an official, Bill added, and added, 
It certainly meant defeat to us.
And my name took an awful 
beating from then on. They called 
me Wrong Down Johnny. Papers 
wrote public letters asking me 
What Down is it? The mails 
brought me some twenty-five 
arithmetic books, seventeen whis
tles, various drawings by punsters 
from coast to coast.
Much of the tension was re
leased later in the week when I 
received a wire which read:
Reports of my comments on 
you personally very much exag
gerated. Consensus of our own 
squad and myself that we forget 
the whole thing. We all wish you 
the best of luck.Kern.
In November Los Angeles news
papers greeted me with sport.page headlines reading, Wrong 
Down official works here. A writ
er there wondered if my middle 
initial S stood for Something al
ways happens. Maybe he was won
dering right. Ive wondered, too, 
often. Another writer called me the 
hot water official of ;the Middlewest.
The only other anti-Getchell out
burst occurred two weeks after the 
Tech-Irish game when Tech tum
bled the mighty Pittsburgh into de
feat, which assured the - Engineers 
of a bowl bid somewhere. The 
Tech students on the Monday fol
lowing this victory went^on parade 
and burned my name in effigy, 
along with that of Jock Sutherland, 
then coach at Pitt.
So there, my children, you have 
the story of why it is socially cor
rect to yell Getctyell at the top 
of your lungs when the referee 
paces off that fifteen yard penalty 
against Tech.
e.33GsBISG eIADBDR
An Apple A Day
Dont pick the apples, Tech 
men said. Not at C. I. T. but at 
Virginia Tech the horticultural de
partment is running experiments on 
yields of fruit trees, and the above 
notice is posted around the college 
apple orchard. Sectional clubs are 
sponsored by this school; so that 
students from the same districts 
are brought together socially.
The Eyes of Texas
University of Texas puts Bible on 
spot, runs a headline in The Daily 
Texan, but its only Dana X. thats 
on the X. His longhorns are slated 
to win their conference football 
championship this year.
Dear Mom
I suppose they aint too bright, 
for students of Indiana U. have 
been posting letters in a trash box. 
The receptacle is rather large and 
has a slot similar to familiar green 
mail boxes that dot the I. U. 
campus. Thirty letters were found 
by an enterprising student who 
probably got confused then real
ized his mistake. Students had 
better got on the ball and roll 
across the street to Uncle Sams 
box quoth an onlooker, but 
maybe they are rhinies, rhinie 
is the affectionate form of the term 
plebe at Indiana U.
Suffragetes
Women have won equal writes 
at U. of Akron. Two women were 
elected managing editors on the 
Akron Buchtelite, the college week
ly. This will be the first time in 
the publications 53 years that a 
woman holds these high positions. 
Innovations at Akron U. also inuABSBI3 5GGS
On Friday, October 11, the Car
negie Tech Harriers were given 
their first chance to- show their 
abilities. The first meet was run 
against a much stronger and more 
experienced Pitt squad. Techs 
team was seriously handicapped 
by the absence of two of their most 
promising runners. Frank Pritch
ard, freshman ace, is confined in 
the hospital with a serious case of 
grippe. His illness will keep him 
away from the cinder track for a 
few weeks, thus eliminating one 
of Techs most hopeful runners. 
Perhaps the most serious blow to 
the success of the thin clad squad is 
the ineligibility of Pete Saranatopolis, outstanding intercollegiate 
distance and cross country runner 
in Western Pennsylvania. The in
eligibility of this star will hamper 
not only the success of the cross 
country squad, but also the track 
team, since Pete was a sure bet 
for placing in the distance events. 
Despite this blow the team should 
be able to hold their own with any 
other squad on their schedule of 
meets. The Friday meet can not 
be considered a good indication of 
Techs strength because Tech re
ceived a handicap of four minutes. 
Since the relative strength of the 
Pitt squad was greater than Tech 
this handicap of four minutes was 
granted. The Tech team took ad
vantage of the situation and took 
the meet from Pitt, finishing four of 
the first five men. For a meet held 
 so early in the season the time was 
very good. Teresi, finished in the 
time of 27.08 to take a first while 
Puchaski copped second in 27.20. 
Running a close third was Volbrack, who finished in 27.21. The 
first Pitt man to cross the finish line 
was Curtis in 27.53. Marcin, Tech 
captain finished fifth in 28.15. The 
time is very good for such an early 
meet and for such a difficult 
course. This indicates that Tech 
which has de-emphasized athletics 
during the past two years is almost 
on a par with the athleticly minded 
schools in cross country. Next Fri
day Tech encounters the harriers 
of Geneva College on the four and 
one-half mile course of Schenley 
Park.
The freshmen squad is also show
ing indications of a successful sea
son. The plebes are practicing hard 
in preparation for their opening 
meet with Westinghouse High 
School. The freshmen will run the 
two and three tenths miles on the 
high course. Doctor Halferty has 
been doing an excellent job in de
veloping both a winning varsity 
team and a promising freshmen 
squad.
elude a two cent deposit .of cafe
teria trays, refunded when they 
are returned with the dishes. 
Glowing, Glowing:, Gone
Radium active phosphorus was 
sent to Peru from the U. of Cal. 
As reported in the Californian, the 
phosphorus, produced in a cyclo
tron is endowed with radioactivity 
for about fourteen days. It can 
be used in treating a cancer like 
disease of the blood, leukemia.
Citcom Barn Dance
Thistle Hall will serve as a barn 
from 9 oclock till 12 this Friday 
night, October 17, When the Citcom 
Clan will hold their first barn 
dance of the year.
Si Braley, who made quite a hit 
with the crowd at the Clans barn 
dances last year, will again be on 
hand as caller. Si, far from being 
a farmer, is an Oberlin graduate 
who has made square dancing his 
hobby. Admission is thirty cents 
per person for members, and thirtyfive cents per person for non-mem
bers. Both couples and stags are 
welcome.
Fori Pitt is the Place 
to Buy 
TYPEWRITERS
FORT PITT 
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
RODGERS
DAIRY STORES
e
MILK SHAKES
Made from Pure Whole Milk 
for only 10c
We Do Not Use Skim Milk.
NEAREST STORES LOCATED
---AT---
395 FORBES STREET 
Near Bouquet Street
4619 CENTER AVENUE 
Near Craig Street
Eacahat
V9gEf19 aTPhu14  oGASR
Per line between the hours of 12 and 5 P. M. 
jW lSTpfHDdp6 fpl
UNIVERSITY RECREATION
407 S. Craig St. (Near Forbes) MAyfiower ;XUV

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY. OCTOBER 14, 1941THE CARNEGIE TARTAN5
Team Returns on Hospital List
Early last Sunday morning, a badly beaten and badly battered 
Tech team landed in Pittsburgh at the Pennsylvania Railroad sta
tion, returning from Allentown. Practically every member of the 
squad was somewhat the worse for wear after the game, for every
one on the traveling squad played in the contest. The injuries began 
to occur in the first period, and the second and third teams played 
most-of , the latter half of the game. According to several of the 
members. of the team, the Muhlenberg team was. the biggest and 
toughest.;te,ftm; met so far this year, more so than the Albright team 
which-:defeated -the Mules several weeks ago.
Probably the worst injury inflicted in the game was that suf
fered by Tech's passing threat, Virgil Cantini, who suffered a dis
located vel-ebrae in his neck. This injury finishes Virgs playing 
chances for'the year, and he was forced to remain behind in the 
Allentown hospital when the team returned. He suffered the injury 
on a line buck when he ran head-on into one of the Muhlenberg 
backs,, being, knocked unconscious by the collision and had to bis 
. carried from the field. Qn the play, Virg came up from safety posi
tion to make the tackle and was running at top sjDeed when he 
stopped the play, which also stopped him for the season. ,
Joe Pasli was next in line on the casualty list, suffering from a 
"broketf hose sustained in the first quarter of the game which will 
.keep him out of action for some time. Ilolets, Anderson, Minkel, 
Boyd, and Lindberg are also among those injured but theirs is of 
a less serious nature. Anderson, Holets, and Boyd were badly, bat
tered, while the old injuries carried by Minkel and Lindberg were 
aggravated by similar batterings.
Poor Intramural Sportsmanship
Along with the generally fine spirit that is exhibited at most 
of the intramural games, several unfortunate incidents have cropped 
Tip in the first several football games to mar a fine start. In one of 
the touch football games on the Cut, two participants let their foot
ball playing go in favor of a personal scrap. A football game is 
certainly no place for a fist fight and all the players should realize 
that fact and refrain from such action.
The Intramural Board will not tolerate such unsportsmanlike 
actions in their program and all future offenders will be dealt with 
severely. Any similar incidents in the future will be examined by 
the Board and the boys at fault will be suspended for the remainder 
of the sport or possibly the season. This is positively the last warn
ing by the Board and Mr. Eyman, and all offenders will be punished 
accordingly.
News About Former Football Players
For the benefit of those students who are interested in what the 
boys, from last years football team are doing, this paragraph lias 
been dedicated. Quite a number of last years graduating class who 
are working at the mills in the Pittsburgh district have signed up 
to play semi-pro. ball with a team out in McKeesport, these alumni 
"being Laposki, Kuenzli, Wind, and Church. Two otlier former 
Tech boys with' this aggregation are Vic Diefenderfer, who did not 
return to school, and Paul Friendlander who will be remembered as 
a prominent figure in the Getchell incident of the 1938 season.
Slippery Slock Defeats 
Tart an Soccer Team
Once again the almost tradition
al bad luck of the Carnegie Tech 
Booters showed up last Saturday 
when the team was defeated 4-1 by 
Slippery Rock. In just about every 
year the Techites have journeyed 
to Slippery. Rock they have en
countered either snow,-rain, or high 
. winds. Last Saturdays game was 
no exception since there was a 
strong wind ' which both hampered 
and helped-the two teams. In the 
fix-st quarter the Carnegie Booters 
were favored with the wind in 
their direction and although they 
didnt quite score, they kept the 
ball in the enemy territory for most 
of the qiiartex\ It was another case 
of the Booters old trouble: namely, 
geeting the ball down close to the 
goal; but not being quite able to 
put it 'across for the point.
At the end of the first quarter 
neither team had scored, but the 
second quarter proved to be the 
downfall for the Tartans. To start 
things off, Pinky Lees, playing 
for the Carnegie Tech Soccer team, 
kicked the first goal for the Slip
pery Rock team. The whole inci
dent was rather confusing since 
the Slippery Rock squad at first 
congratulated one of their own men, 
but then decided Wally Beckstrom, 
of the Tech team, had scored their 
point, not realizing that Pinky 
had accidentally tipped the ball the 
wrong direction. (Well blame it 
on the wind). At any rate, it is 
rumored that Slippery Rock will 
award Pinky a letter. Soon after 
this incident a free kick, was scored 
by Slippery Rock, making the score 
two to nothing. The two remaining 
points, one. in the third quarter and 
one in the last quarter, Were made 
once because the ball slipped from 
Ivan Sivachak[s hands, and the 
other due to a good kick by the cenW. A. A. News
With the first board meeting un
der the direction of the president, 
Anne Rea, the sport season was 
definitely started. The usual fall 
sports, hockey, volleyball, archery, 
swimming, and dancing welcome all 
new members. Basketball and 
bowling will begin later in the sea
son.
In addition to the sport program 
W. A. A. is sponsoring its annual 
barn dance. There will be a reg
ular hill-billy orchestra and square 
caller.' So watch for the date, and 
while you waitenter sport activ
ity.
ter forward on the Slippery Rock 
team.
Reviewing the points made by the 
opposing team once again shows that 
the Tech Bootex-s suffered more 
from their traditional bad luck than 
it shows that Slippery Rock was a 
superior team. All four of Slippex-y Rocks four goals were made 
with the aid of a strong wind. In 
the last two quarters the Techites 
picked up considerably and as in 
the first quarter, kept the ball in the 
enemy territory for a good part of 
the time.
The one point the Tartans scored 
was made in the third quarter by 
Malinski on a free kick.
Outstanding in the game on Sat
urday were the fullbacks Nelson 
Crooks and Will Dean, and the half 
backs Bob Reisacher and Captain 
Sam Rickley. In the forward line 
Malinski played a good game, as 
did Ivan Sivachak at the goal:
Next Saturday the Tartan Boot
ers meet Franklin and Marshall 
on the field located at Margaret 
Morrison and Forbes streets. The' 
Diplomates have always had a good 
team, usually playing the best 
schools in the East. They play ac
cording to intercollegiate rules, 
which means that only five men can 
be substituted during the entire 
game and that the quarters are 
seventeen minutes in length. This 
will be something new for the Tech
ites since the previous games have 
been played according to a mutual 
agreement of the eoaches. Usually 
the quarters have been fifteen min
utes in length and there has been 
no limits on substitutions per game.
The game with Franklin and 
Marshall is scheduled to begin at 
10 A. M. It is predicted that the 
Techites have a good . chance of 
winning this game even though we 
lost to the Diplomats last year by 
a score of 6-1.
All students interested in seeing 
a game crammed full of action and 
excitement should be on hand on 
Saturday to see the game with 
Franklin and Marshall.
65uc6UmmmmH
Let'sgoES, EsCLIoGS, CgtgR PRgCESS 
EoCReVIoCS REPRgDUCED 'RgM PLgsg-CRePLS. DReWIoGS, gIt PeIosIoGS * 
IttUSsResIgoS g' EVERY DESCRIPsIgo.
Operating PaueriHiM
Oollogo Girls 
and 
Toaohers
Aro Invited 
to tho
BENACII
Beauty Salon
3001 FOItBES STREET 
Near the Schenley Apis.
Permanent Waves, $3.50 up 
Shampoo and Stylized 
Finger Waves, 85c up 
Tel. MA. 2144
Open Tues. and Fri. Evenings
Let'LsgoOWN
BATTERED TARTANS RETURN 
eR g.5 Sy.PGYi ln.NBY pLOB.N
Tech Defeated By 
Muhlenberg, 26-6
Intramural Notes
uASCILNCI3 ,..SiI33 aGSSGC 
pR e.LYICGD 9. ,.CLGC wGICR
The Intramui'al football season 
has already reached a peak as far 
as spirit and bx-and of play are con
cerned. The games have been play
ed in a more serious manner. There 
have been more spectators watch
ing from the sidelines while on the 
field the players themselves caught 
the spirit and played a brand of 
ball superior to most of the past 
seasons. The type of plays used 
are more systematic, more compli
cated. Ball handling is much bet
ter. Blocking is more effective than 
that'of other seasons.
As an example of the statements 
made above is the game between
 the  PIKAs and the Delts, which
 was  played last Thursday. This 
was one of the finest played ball 
games ever witnessed by any Techite. Both teams blocked vex-y hard 
with the nod going to protection of
fered by halfbacks to the PiKA 
passer. The Delt tosser did not re
quire as much time because their 
passes were mostly short ones, as 
a matter of fact their touchdown 
was scox-ed on a quick pass x-ight 
over the center with the receiver 
standing over the goal. He did not 
move after catching the ball. There 
was no haggling by either team. 
This fact alone makes touch foot
ball desirable. The score was 7-5 
favoring the Delts. This scox-e goes 
to show the tightness of the game 
either team could have won.
This all brings about the conclu
sion that league games are mox'e de
sirable than elimination games. 
Teams have something to look for
ward to even if they lose a game 
or two. Of course the actual de
cision of whether there shall be 
league or elimination games should 
be made at the end of the season, 
but to date all things point to the 
present type.
Several games played yesterday 
may be deciding factors of League 
2 and 3. The Kappa Slgs met the 
DUs in League 2 while tho Cllcom 
Clan will meet the boys from Mc
Gill Hall, later in the week. So far 
none of these teams have lost a 
game.
So far this year the PiKA's have 
scored the greatest number of points 
with a total of 4*1. Close behind 
them are the Kappa Slgs who have 
scored 38. Next are the DU's with 
a total of 37. Welsh Hall has had 
the most points scorcd against 
them53. Following are the Beta 
Slgs and the Sigma Nu's with 41 
and 28 respectively.
The team standings are:
League1
W.L.Pis.Op.
Delts............ 303417
Theta Xi. . 1097
PiKA ......... . 224425
SAE ..........111214
Tau Delts .. . 021431
Betas ........02120
League2
Kappa Sigs. . 202013
DU ............2037IB
Phi Kaps ... 10136
ATO ........... .01619
Beta Sigs .. . 022441
Sigma Nu ... 02728
Cantini, Pasli 
Hurt; Fi <r htineO oIrish Next Foe
By DON WATKINS
Last Saturday the Skibos suf
fered a rather surpi'ising defeat at 
the hands of the Muhlenberg Mules. 
The cential Pennsylvania team 
made 16 first downs to the Tartans. 5. Muhleixberg sent playex*s 
over, under and through the Tech 
line in px-actically the whole of the 
game. With the/defeat of the Albx;ight Lions last week, spix-it on the 
Tech campus rose with the hope 
that Tech was x-ecovering fx-om, its 
athletic lethax-gy, but this little 
flame of hope died quickly with the 
current defeat.
To add to the gloom on the Tech 
campus, Cantini, star back was left 
in the Allentown Hospital with a 
dislocated vertebx*ae. This acci
dent will keep him out of school 
and in the hospital for a period of 
from ten days to two welcs, and 
perhaps out of football for the N5b 
mainder of the season. Joe Pash, 
Slcibo halfback, was also counted 
among the injured when he re
ceived a fractux-ed nose. Joe re
turned with the team last night,
Intramural Fee Due
Mr. Eyman has made the follow
ing announcement: any team enter
ed in the Intramural football com
petition that has not paid its entx-ance fee must pay it immediate
ly or be dropped fi*om the competitioxx.
a pass to Ramsey who caught it just 
as he stepped over the goal. Muhl
enberg came back with probably 
the most sensational play of the 
season when Gus Minifri, Muhlen
berg back, intercepted a Tech pass 
and ran sixty yards for a touch
down. Bossik kicked the extra 
point which made the final score 
26-0.
Notre Dame Next
Next Saturday Notre Dames 
Coach Leahy will bring his ma
chine to face the battered Caxuxegie 
squad. The Blue and Gold is carry
ing a somewhat smaller team this 
year with only 55 men, but it is 
genex-ally conceded that there is 
very little difference in the five full 
teams.
Coach Leahy received his B. S. 
degx*ee at Notre Dame after which 
he was signed to the Geox-getown 
line coach job. His work here 
impressed5 Crowley at Michigan so 
that Crowley hired him in 1932 and 
later took him to Fox-dham where 
he produced the famous Seven 
Blocks of Gx*anite which px-evented Fox'dham from defeat in all but 
two games in the yeax*s 1935, 1936, 
1937. His golden opportunity came 
in 1939 when he was signed as head 
coach at Boston College. His rec
ord there shows that he was ripe for 
the chance, since he chalked up 20 
victories in 22 games. With Elmer 
Laydens resignation Leahys life
long dream came true. He was 
picked to succeed The Thin Man. 
His more enthusiastic supporters ac
claim him as another Rockne, but 
he himself says that there will 
never be another Rockne, and that 
the days of undefeated Notre Dame 
teams is over.
Sophomores Cover Ends
At the left end posltios Leahy 
has capable Bob Dove, who last year 
played first string as a sophomore. 
Matt Bolger, a sophomore this year, 
has been moved to right end. Either 
he or Elbi might move back in the 
case of an injury to Dove. In the 
left tackle position the Blue and 
Gold depend on the work of Jinx 
Brut/, and Elbi. Two juniors, Lar
ry Sullivan and Lou Rymkus add 
reserve strength to this position.
Pete Kelly has vacated the posi
tion of left guard by virtue of grad
uation. Bob Maddoclc, ruged sen
ior letterman, has filled this position 
with the help and competition of 
Bob McBx-ide, sophomore. The cen
ter position was left open by the 
graduation of Bob Osterman and 
Johnny McHales withdrawal from 
school in the face of a professional 
sbaseball career , leaving only last 
years number 3 man, Gordy 
OReilly with experience.
As a back-up group, Wally Ziemba, a sophomore tackle letterman, 
has been moved to this spot. Also 
Tom Bx-ock, who was injured last 
year as a sophomore, has showed 
promise this year. John Lanahan 
a last years sophomore reserve is 
also available. Leahys desix-e for a 
speedy line led him to move Bill 
Riordan, sophomore quarterback of 
last year up to the position of right 
guard.
Irish Strong- At Tackle
Bernie Crimmin also a last years 
back has been moved up to this po
sition. Captain Paul Lillis will bear 
the brunt of the work in the right 
tackle position with the help of 
Cliff Brosey and Bob Neff, both 
lettermen. John Kovatch, a 1940 
letterman and ex-sophomore re
serve George Mux-phy wil do the 
work at right end with the aid of 
Matt Bolger.
In the backfield the Fighting Ix'ish 
have Bob Hargrave and Bob Early 
as the signal callex-s. In the left 
half position which has been bled 
of talent by graduations and remov
als will be played by Angelo Bertelli 
and Jack Warnei-. Don Hogan will 
also help out in this position, Tom 
Miller, and John Pasonelli playing. 
Fullbacks are Dippy Evans and 
Chuck McNeill .
Always clean and 
free from goo no 
matter how often 
you smoke it. Challunging higherpriced pipes in briar 
quality and value. 
WM. DEMUTH & CO., N. Y.
HANDKERCHIEF 
TEST PROVES 
VITAL 
ALWAYS 
SPOTLES!
MELLON 
NATIONAL BANK
PASS
League3
Citcom Clan.. 20317
McGill Hall203112
Chcm. Eng. ., .. 023229
Boss Hall .., . . 112920
Scobell Hall. . 0I1114
The above cup is the trophy 
which the Intramurals Board 
awards each year to the organiza
tion that has compiled the greatest 
number of points over the period 
of one year for all Intramural 
sports. The year before last the 
FI Kappa Alpha fraternity had 
possession of the cup, but yielded 
it last year to the Cltoom ('Ian. This 
Intramural Trophy, which Is only 
two years old, rotates among the 
various organizations of the cam
pus.
FIyG UNAriG UCBGAD3d
Treat yourself and 
others to fresh-tasting 
Wrigleys Spearmint Gum 
The Flavor Lasts
and we hope he was not so unfortu
nate as Cantini and that he will not 
remain on the sick list for so long 
a time.
In the first period, Andex-son, 
Tech end, intercepted a lateral from 
Bossik which stopped the Mules 
march in the first quarter. The op
ponents came back in the second 
period to score two touchdowns. 
The first score was the result of 
a long 45 yard drive down to 
Techs one-yard line with Bissett, 
Muhlenberg field marshall, going 
through center for the score. The 
placement failed. After an ex
change of kicks some time later
Varsity Tackle
The first string left tackle for 
Tech this year is Louis (Whitey) 
Moorman. This blonde boy who 
halls from Dormont, Pa., is a jun
ior in the engineering school. This 
is his first year as a varsity line
man.
Bossik and Scheider of Muhlenbex-g 
completed a sleeper pass which ad
vanced them neax-ly 40 yards and 
made possible the second tally with 
Bossik making the score. Murlenbergs Morris succeeded in his 
placement giving the Mules a 1310 
advantage over their visitox-s. The 
third quax-ter saw Muhlenbex-g re
ceive a punt on Techs 30 yax-d line 
and march almost unobstructed up 
the field for a score by Bissett 
plunging over from the 3 yax-d line. 
The third period ended with the 
score 19-0.
It was in the last quarter that the 
Skibos made their only tally. De
Simone of Tech recovered Muhlenbex-gs fumble on the Mules 15 yax'd 
line. The first play resulted in the 
scox-e with quaterback Fritz hurling

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1941
Evening 
School 
Section of 
Tartan
General News 
Editorial Comment 
Fraternal Organization
6GCCd 4CGd 9. cGSNCA 
,.C ,BCRS ,I33 EIAoG
Canipu* ChatterCouncil Selects 
Popular Band for 
Thistle Hall Oct. 18
Twice within a space of one 
week, the evening social calendar 
undergoes an unprecedented change. 
Although not as radical a de
parture from the past years sched
ule of affairs as last Saturdays 
Election party, this Saturdays 
dance promises to be something 
delightful and will prove the old 
adage  the more we get to
gether, the happier we will be.
Known as the Get Together 
Dance and sponsored by the Even
ing Student Council, it will mark 
the first time that Council has held 
a dance of this nature. Whether it 
promises >to occupy an annual spot 
on the calendar is not certain, but 
its apparent success, because of the 
nature of the dance and the excel
lent orchestra selected to play the 
dance music, may prove a decid
ing factor. Come get together 
and meet many of the old friends 
that have greeted you in dances 
gone by, and welcome the new stu
dents to the evening school cam
pus.
By popular demand, the Council 
has obtained Jerry Grey and his 
"Music of Today, to provide the 
sweet-smooth music that entranc
ed everyone that danced to his band 
last year.
Although there have been many 
fine dance orchestras on the evening 
campus, in years gone by, it was 
the opinion of every dancer that 
night, that here was the finest 
band, yet to play for the evening 
students. It was music as you want 
it, in every sense of the word.
Featured by Jerry Grey and his 
Orchestra are the sweet and var
ied vocal interpretations by Jim
mie Moore.. Whether its 'baritone, 
lyric tenor or some really goingto-town on a hot tune, itll more 
than likely atill be Jimmie Moore.
New to the Pittsburgh district 
until playing the Industries Spring 
Dance last year, the orchestra has 
met with much approval of danc
ers everywhere, having spent the 
remaining part of the spring and 
greatest part of the summer in the 
New England states from which 
it. has recently returned. Since 
then Grey has played at Mission 
Inn, Palisades, Bryn Mawr, Brent
wood Park and Olympia Park.
The dance will bo held In This
tle Mall this Saturday, October 10, 
(lancing,from 0:00 to 12:00 o'clock.
Decorations for the dance will 
follow the autumn trend and will 
do much to provldo a cheery at
mosphere. In the decorations will 
lie a reproduction of all the colors 
that Mother Nature puts Into the 
trees and falling leaves during In
dian Summer. There will also be 
plenty of football atmosphere, for 
the boys of Notre Dame will have 
battled the boys at Tech that aft
ernoon.
Admission to the dance will be 
one dollar per couple and every
one of his friends are invited to 
attend.
For those interestecf in working 
toward an Insignia Award, it will 
be an opportunity to earn points 
which will be given for work done 
in the afternoon in decorating be
ginning at 1:30, for work done dur
ing the evening at the dance, and 
for clean-up on the following Sun
day afternoon.
fLY3.dLGAS 
pBD TUUGCGD 9. 
1BslS VSNDGASR
The Bureau of Placements (In
dustries Hall) maintains a sep
arate department for the place
ment of evening students.
It is desirable that all students 
attending evening school have posi
tions which supplement their 
course of study in so far as this is 
possible. Their work should be 
of a permanent character with some 
reliable company whose policy it is 
*o encourage further education.
All students wishing to make use 
this employment service should 
jgister at the Bureau at once, 
hroughout the evening school year 
.ib Bureau of Placements is open 
very Monday and Thursday even
ing (holidays and vacations ex
cepted) from 6:30 to 8:30 for inter
views. Special appointments may 
be arranged by telephone. The 
' Bureau is also open from 9:00- 
12:00 and 1:00-5:00 each day (Sat
urdays 9:00-12:00 only) through
out the year.
FOR WHOM THE BELLE 
TOILS . . . Thelma has vowed to 
love, honor and sing to Ed Nuss, our 
former Editor . . . AdeLine Nuss 
proudly pens her name, Mrs. Rob
ert King (Cupid, incidentally, sav
ed their meeting for our campus 
another feather in our cap) ... It 
was a story book ending for Ed 
Tiepel and his Virginia . . . Jean 
Berkenbush has given up books 
for more important thinks kitchen; 
bedroom and sink ... A lovely 
ball and chain travels with Stan 
Stolarczyk from now on, known to 
all as Helen . . . Alien Grandy 
and Virginia Lohr now have a 
joint savings account also.
MISSING PERSONS BUREAU 
. . . Arnold Annex is now helping 
Uncle Samhes in the Air Corps 
stationed at Kelly Field, Texas (the 
gals are so sad since he left and 
were afraid it will be a pretty 
big task to compete with those 
lovely southern belles . . . Hal 
Geilman is missing this semester 
. . . work finally caught up with 
him and took him to Dayton.
Junior thinks lies getting too 
big (in stature of course) for his 
name. From now on, smile when you 
call him by that name . . . Gone 
With the Wind came and went but 
Hopkins (of the Oakland Hop
kins) is always around to give a 
helping hand . . . Long dresses, at 
the dances, would be definitely 
Okeh this yearmaybeexcepting 
so many of its male rooters are 
married and footing the bills which 
puts a different light on the sub
ject . . .
MISSING . . . Our Eds wit
ticism for the evening . . . can 
love (or high taxes) have given 
him that serious attitude after all 
these years . . . come on, Jim, 
give out with one of your stories 
. . . Ron ShofT should have been 
sitting under the table the night 
of the banquet . . . most of his 
dinner landed there ... or was 
the night too young ? ? ?
Dramats Chosen 
For Opening Play
The Two Orphans, first produc
tion of the year for the Drama De
partment, has been cast and the 
opening date definitely set for Oc
tober 23. The plot revolves around 
the harrowing adventures of two 
orphans in their efforts to find 
each other in the city of Paris be
fore the revolution.
The main characters are as fol
lows: La Frochard, Elizabeth Root 
and Elise Cox; Countess, Ann Alex
ander and Molly Van Amerigen; 
Jennette, Jane Lloyd Jones and 
Patricia Meyer; Louise, Ruth Storm 
and Muriel Rosoff; Marianne, Anne 
M. Price and Marisse Forbes; Che
valier do Vaudrey, Roland Kraus 
and Christopher Smith; Jacques, 
Richard Rose and Lester Stanford; 
Pierre, Tom Jones and Manuel Ru
bin; Picard, Robert Challener and 
Michel Agruss.
Tickets may be obtained for the 
asking in the registrars office. Only 
two tickets will be given to each 
person. The plays are given in 
the Little Theater and run for a 
week, a presentation occuring each 
night.
Library Service 
Gives Students 
Many Advantages
It is a well known fact that to 
Icnow is to learn and in order to 
learn it is necessary to read good 
books. The library is available to 
all evening school students, and is 
located on the campus in a mod
erate structure known as the Hut. 
There are three branches on the 
campus located in the Fine Arts 
Building, Engineering Hall, and 
Machinery Hall. The evening 
school students , are invited to use 
these accommodationes any time 
daily between the hours of 9;Q0 a. 
ni. to 9:00 p. m. with the excep
tion of Saturday when the hours 
are from 9:00 a. m. to 5:00 p. m. 
During holidays, notices will be 
posted in the Library and branches 
regarding schedule changes. The 
Library and its branches are com
plete in their collection of ma
terial, having about 27,000 vol
umes for circulation, and a large 
collection of periodicals.
Also, for availability to the stu
dents is the Carnegie Library of 
Pittsburgh which is located near 
the campus and is open from 9:00 
a. m. to 10:00 p. m. daily and 2:00 
p. m. to 6:00 p. m. on Sunday.
Students are urged to use these 
valuable facilities to their own ad
vantage and "Will be expected * to 
obey all the rules concerning the 
library and its branches.
Students Ho
Earn Your Needed 
Insignia Points Now
Every year the call has gone out 
for workers and more workers for 
the Plaid, and this year again the 
Plaid is appealing to the Evening 
Student Body for help in putting 
out its page.
The work is simple enough and 
we of the Plaid staff can assure you 
that you wont be overburdened 
with it. If you can write, come out 
and lend your literary ability; if 
you cant write, but can type, come 
out and help type-write the articles 
contributed'by others. If you can't 
write or type, come out anyhow and 
well find something for you to do, 
and you'll be well repaid for your 
labors. Your pay will be, in part, 
the friendly hours you spend; fur
ther reward is in the form of an 
Insignia or Key, presented by 
Evening Student Counciland the 
Key alone is worth working for.
Plan to set Friday evening aside 
for the Plaid. The Editor and his 
staff will appreciate your help and 
Jyoull gain something for your 
efforts. Many lasting friendships 
have been made through associa
tion at these Friday evening Plaid 
meetingsask any member of the 
Plaid Staff.
TIIE MAIfJBOX
Dear Mr. Editor:
My name isnt Clifton Fadiman 
and Im not working for "Informa
tion Please, but I would like some 
informationplease.
Now this isnt a ten dollar ques
tion and I cant even promise you 
a box of delicious candy bars if 
you answer it, but I can promise 
you my heartfelt thanks. Well, 
now here is the question"What 
happened to the Plaque which 
Evening Student Council purchased 
last year, and dedicated to the 
memory of Dr. T. S. Baker, former 
President of Tech and good friend 
of the evening students?
A great pall ol' mystery seems to 
hang over the disappearance of this 
tablet. As a matter of faot, I 
thought of giving this letter a title 
such as "Button, Button, Who has 
the Button, or Who Stole the 
Plaque Off the School House Door? 
All joking aside, it seems very 
strange to me that a plaque as 
large as this could disappear into 
thin air, never to be seen again. 
Unless the government has taken 
it for national defense, it must 
be gathering dust in some hidden 
corner, and Im sure you would be 
doing all the evening students, who 
furnished the money for the plaque, 
a great service if you would find 
out where it is, and why it hasn't 
been put on display.
Wishing you great success in your 
career as a detective', I remain, sin
cerely yours.
Do You Swim?
Evening students who have paid 
an activities fees are granted the 
use of many facilities on the Tech 
campus. One of the finest of these 
is the beautiful swimming pool lo
cated in the Gymnasium building. 
Enrolled in the night school are 
more than three thousand students 
and yet only a few of these enjoy 
the privilege of swimming in the 
Tech pool.
Admission is obtained by the pre
sentation of a valid registration 
card. A capable instructor is pres
ent at the spacious thirty-five by 
seventy-five foot pool and is ready 
to offer advice or assistance at any 
time. Excellent shower and locker 
facilities exist and towels are avail
able also. No charge is made for 
any of these conveniences.
There are two sessions each week. 
On Wednesday evening from 6:30 to 
10:45 the pool is open for men and 
women but. the Friday session is for 
the men.
Are You Driving?
Since the school parking lots 
have a tendency to be overcrowded, 
the Administration Iras made these 
lots restricted areasthat is, areas 
in which only ifcgistered night, 
school students are allowed to park. 
In order to obtain a permit, the 
student must go to the Registrar's 
office and present a registration 
card. He will then get a parking 
button which will allow him the 
privilege of parking in the lots 
behind Machinery and Engineer
ing Halls. These buttons furnish 
the student with the necessary 
identification to gain access to the 
lots. The charge for these but
tons is fifteen cents. The student 
has a distinct advantage of park
ing when he possesses a parking 
permit.
Appearing 
In ThisCouncil Dance
WeeksElection Party
IssueThe Mailboxartw dTavncc p laid
Handbooks 
Are Available 
For Students
Every student enrolled in the
evening colleges is eligible to re
ceive without charge a copy of 
the Evening Student ' Carnegie 
Handbook, an informative booklet 
published each year by the Even
ing Student Council in collabora
tion with the Administrative Offic
ers of Carnegie Tech.
Several hundred copies of The 
Handbook, as it is called, are now 
on hand in the Registrars Office, 
Administration Hall. Those stu
dents who have not as yet received 
their copies can do so by present
ing their Registration Cards at that 
office, which is open every school 
night from seven until nine.
The Handbook is a digest of in
formation on almost any subject 
relative to the evening school at 
Techsocial activities, the book 
store, scholarships, officers of the 
Administration, Athletic Activities, 
parking regulations, Evening Stu
dent Council History, fraternities, 
and many other topics of interest 
to the evening student can be found 
there.
New students will find the Hand
book their introduction to a new 
world of thought and activity 
their guide to proper conduct on 
the campustheir handy, informa
tive friend.
Former students will find that the 
social and academic calendars the 
Handbook contains are worth hav
ing; that this years booklet is bet
ter than ever before.
4C.NY f3GoSB.A OICSd 
1ILGR 1GH TUUBoGCR
S*>yrilt 1941, Litcrr k Wthi Toiicco C*.
favorite candidates and excitement 
ran high. The names of the nomi.ness were then presented -for elec
tion and a secret ballot followed. 
As a result of the election the fol
lowing officers were chosen to rep
resent their respective colleges on 
Student Council for the coming 
year:
In the College of Engineering: 
Robt King, President; Frank 
Amuso, Vice President; J. Kerstokes, Secretary; James Miller, 
Treasurer.
In the College of Industries: J. 
Lehren, President; Alan ' Grandy; 
Vice President; Virginia Anderson. 
Secretary; Eleanor Gorskey, Treas
urer.
In the College of Fine Arts: John 
Deluca, President; Elmer Phillips, 
Secretary; Robt Metcalf, Treasurer.
Sy5 EGNI5hO5 ,AGOL
Page edited by Evening School 
Students of Carnegie Institute of 
Technology. All views or opinions 
expressed in editorial column are 
not necessarily endorsed by the 
Editorial Board of the Day. School 
Staff.
Editor 
James H. Miller 
News Editor 
Adeline King
Associate Editors 
Francis Lacny 
Nancy Lewis 
Staff
Robert C. King Kathryn Schwartz
William C. Hurtt Ronald E. ShofT
John Hopkins Stanley Stolarczyls
Stephen Marcinizyn Franft J. Young
Dave W. Pettigrew Isabelle BenshofF
SlCf/
for a Definitely MILDER
COOLER BETTER TASTE
Smokers everywhere know you cctn 
travel a long way and never find another 
cigarette that can match Chesterfield for a 
Milder Cooler Better Taste.
Its Chesterfields Right Combination 
of the worlds best cigarette tobaccos that 
wins the approval of smokers all over the 
country. Let the Navys choice be your 
choice...make your next pack Chesterfield.
EVERYWHERE YOU
First Social Event
Attracts Students
The social season of the Evening 
School got off to a fine start last 
Saturday night when the three Col
leges held a combined Election 
Party in Thistle Hall. The affair 
was well attended and everyone 
had a gay time. This is the first 
time in the history of the night 
school that the Colleges have held 
the election parties at the same 
time. The chief reason for doing 
so was to save money, but it was 
also realized that this would offer 
an excellent opportunity for the 
students in the different colleges to 
become acquainted. They seem to 
have accomplished their purpose 
too, for the groups from the differ
ent colleges mingled sociably and 
really seemed to be enjoying them
selves.
The evenings entertainment was 
provided >by performers who did 
novelty acts, and of course the everpopular juke box with the latest 
popular records provided the music 
for those who cared to dance; The 
juke box was v/ell patronized for 
the music never stopped from the 
time the evening started.
There were plenty of good re
freshments consisting of cookies, 
candy and coco cola for everyone. 
There were also plenty of free 
cigarettes.
During the first part of the even
ing there wa*> plenty of electioneer
ing among the students for their
