The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 38 No. 34CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1944
KSAEs Beat TXs; 
Delts, Betas Lose 
In Intramural Football
The second week of the intramur
al football season saw little change 
in the standings, with the exception 
of the dropping of the Delts from 
among the leaders.
This significant change was 
brought about on Monday when the 
Theta Xi machine stopped the re
luctant Delts 12-1. Festivities open
ed as slick Dick Andre took a Rahall 
pass in the end zone in the first 
quarter to give the TXs a 5-0 lead. 
The Delts fought back, never 
threatening seriously, and trailed by 
this score at the half. The see-saw 
battle through the ensuing minutes 
produced only two first downs for 
TX, and the Delts took over for 
their last attempt. A desperation 
pass in the closing minutes was in
tercepted by Andre, who again 
scored standing up.
The wide-open game played Mon
day on field No. 2 ended with the 
Betas on the long end of a 17-16 
score over the SAE Blue Devils. 
The additions of speedy Joe Dabek 
and Bill Shaver to the Blue Devil 
roster added considerable punch 
which was sorely needed in the ab
sence of Lloyd Susini. Two Shaver 
to Dabek passes put the Blue Devils 
ahead 11-0 at the half, and it was 
not until the third quarter that Be
tas broke loose. On the fourth play 
from the Blue Devil one yard line 
Herrmann took a pass from Bill 
Jones for the score. Touchdowns by 
Jones and Prus put the Betas ahead 
17-16 with thirty seconds to play. 
Shaver took the Beta kickoff and 
immediately passed to Don Kauffield for a touchdown as the game 
ended. This was disallowed by ref
eree Gottesman, and the subsequent 
protest was denied the Blue Devils. 
The score stood: Betas 17, Blue Dev
ils 16.
Playing again on Wednesday, the 
TXs opened well against the 
league-leading KSAEs by scoring 
on the second play. George Rahall 
passed over the KSAE defense to 
give the TXs a 5-0 lead. The follow
ing kickoff started a drive which 
brought the KSAEs a first down on 
the TX six, from where Simpson 
passed to Dave Saylor deep in the 
end zone. Although the KSAEs 
played their poorest game throughContinued on page 7
Z&itosUal
In last weeks front page article describing the clash in the Council 
of Fraternity Presidents, our  we still believe justified  wrath caused 
a very regrettably bitter and invective style which has affected not only 
the Delts, but many neutral readers as well. Furthermore, we committed 
the blunder of stating as a fact an implication. We are referring to the 
repeated statement that the Delts condition for the support of the dance 
was proportional representation. Although their written and spoken com
ments could be interpreted to mean just that, they never made such an 
assertion directly, and we had no right to report it as a fact. Our sincere 
apologies to all concerned.
But even without the offensive style and the erroneous statements, 
our presentation of the facts of the case carries a strong condemnation of 
the Delta Tau Delta Fraternity, so strong, in fact, that many persons may 
consider i,t unjust. We acted in good faith; we then believed, as we do now, 
that our side of the picture was the correct one. But because it is only one 
side, and because we may, unconsciously, have distorted it, we would 
welcome a statement of the Delta Tau Delta Fraternity, and for this pur
pose, offer them unlimited space in the pages of this paper. E. A. L.
jHocal Roy Mak&i Qaad
Broadway Actor Enters Here
If by chance you swoon at the 
sight of the Voice or if you hap
pen to be a Kelly-Astaire fan, then 
youve come to the right school. Yes, 
Carnegie Tech has a guy on campus 
that puts Kelly and Astaire to
shamethis gent is none other than 
Harrison Muller. Tall, blond, blue
eyed and what is more (as if any 
more is necessary with a man-power shortage on hand) Harry is quite 
a talented dancer.
His first taste of Broadway oc
curred in December 1942 when Har
ry received a part in the chorus of 
Best Foot Forward. The show ran 
for seven weeks and when it closed 
in Cleveland Harry came home  
home being Mt. Lebanon. But show 
business must have been in his 
veins, for three months later he reReverend Irving Murray 
Will Speak At Chapel
There will be chapel at 11:00 
A. M. Tuesday, October 24, in Lit
tle Theater. Reverend Irving R. 
Murray, Minister of the First 
Unitarian Church, will be the 
speaker, and the music will be 
supplied by the Chapel Choir di
rected by Mary Jean Hopper, 
with Ivella Kenny as organist. 
Chapel will be sponsored by 
Mortar Board.
turned to the big city to audition 
for the comedy Early To Bed. 
Luck seemed to be with him, for 
he received a part in the chorus and 
was also made understudy of the 
tap specialty dancer. When the 
dancer had to leave the show, Harry 
took over the spot. For those who 
are not familiar with show slang, 
the word spot means a short spec
ialty number. To me spot always 
meant some sort of dirt but Harri
son claims that this spot has noth
ing at all to do with dirt. The show 
finally closed in May 1944 and again 
Harry returned to Pittsburgh.
However, dancing isnt Harrys 
only interest, for he attended Satur
day classes at Tech the summer of
1942 and won the summer scholar
ship for sculpture. While attending 
Continued on page 5
New Discussion Group 
Plans First Meeting
Attention C.I.T. students. The first 
meeting of a new campus organiza
tion, the Discussion Club, will be 
held at the Carnegie Union, Tues
day, October 31, at 7:00 oclock. The 
topic will be, The Issues of the Com
ing Election. Featured participants 
in the discussion will be Dr. Martin 
P. Chworowsky, and Max E. Hannum, members of the Carnegie 
Tech faculty.
Everyone is invited to attend the 
meeting. Everyone, however, is 
warned that the discussion will not 
be calm and restful. Chworowsky 
and Hannum, each possessing a 
great fund of valid information, 
each a convincing speaker, have ar
rived at different conclusions from 
their reading and observations. And 
a large group of students interested 
in this vital and controversial sub
ject will be armed with sharply de
fined convictions.
The Discussion Club, organized 
by a group of Tech students who 
felt the need of such activity on 
campus, will continue through the 
winter, discussing other important 
current issues and problems.
Be sure not to miss The Issues of 
the Coming Election.
Armstrong Plays 
At Halloween Hop
First Dance of Year Will 
Be Held In Thistle Hall
Perhaps a reminder is necessary 
for the first major social affair of 
the fall season here at Tech. The 
dance, entitled the Halloween Hop, 
will be given in Thistle Hall Satur
day, October 28, accompanied by the 
strains of Bernie Armstrongs or
chestra. The dance will start at nine 
p. m. and will be a strictly informal 
affair. Then for those who like to 
eat (and who doesnt?) there is the 
aspect of refreshments for one and 
all. The Hall will be appropriately 
bedecked for the big occasion.
Price of admission is $2.00 per 
couple, and tickets will be on sale 
from Tuesday til Friday from 12:00 
to 2:00 in Administration Hall for 
all interested. Everyone in the 
school is invited to attend this first 
affair of the year.
CIT's 44 Homecoming 
Attended by Over 200
The 1944 Homecoming, attended 
by more than 200 alumni and guests, 
was held with great success on Sat
urday, October 21, officially desig
nated as Homecoming Day.
At the Alumni Council meeting, 
Mr. Harold C. Godden was re-elected president for the coming year. 
Mr. Anthony J. Kerin, Homecoming 
Chairman for 1944, was elected vicepresident; Miss L. Maud Fire, Re
cording Secretary; and Mr. Frank E. 
Foote, Homecoming Chairman for
1945.
Mr. Kerin of New York acted 
as toastmaster. Dr. Doherty, the 
principal speaker of the evening, 
gave the alumni his annual report 
on the activities <^f the school. In his 
speech Dr. Doherty mentioned such 
topics as civilian and A. S. T. P. en
rollment, expedited programs, en
gineering deferments, decreasing 
night school registration, cancella
tion of football schedule, war record 
of Carnegie students and faculty, 
progress in drive for 1946 Endow
ment Fund, and faculty deaths and 
appointments.
After the dinner the Six for 
One Orchestra that made such a 
hit at the Womens Bazaar and 
Bridge held recently, entertained 
Continued on page 5
Delta Gams Initiate Six 
In Saturday Ceremony
The Delta Gammas held their first 
initiation last Saturday in the Ex
hibition Hall of Fine Arts. Those 
who donned the golden anchor were 
Frances Creelman, Elsie Chaman, 
Betty Ann Hirshman, Del Miller, 
Ruth Tuttle, and Mary Ann Rial. 
The initiation was attended by the 
Alumnae board of Delta Gamma in 
addition to the D. G.s who came 
back to welcome new members. A 
dinner party given in the initiates 
honor was held in the Victory 
Room of the Hotel Henry and was 
followed by a theater party.

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1944
For Men Only?
An inexcusable situation which has prevailed on the campus for the 
past few months is only now beginning to stimulate student reaction. This 
situation concerns the attempted exclusion of women students from the 
Main Library in Industries Hall. The excuse, whether warranted or not, 
is that the library has become a date bureau. The explanation, frankly, 
leaves us cold.
We have never been asked to leave the library, although on sev
eral occasions we have endured such lack of cooperation that it may have 
been the hint for us to move. An off-the-record poll of the Margaret Mor
rison students indicated, however, that lack of cooperation and exclusion 
had practically become standard practice.
An outstanding example of this practice occurred recently when a 
Maggie Murph entered the Main Library and requested the use of a book 
on the reserve shelf. She was told that the book would be sent over to the 
library in Margaret Morrison and that she could get it there in fifteen 
minutes. This incident we would have called extreme and perhaps untrue, 
if it were not that other  many other  similar stories have reached us. 
Conversation about a practice so widely experienced as the womens ex
clusion practice in the library must undoubtedly have had a seed from 
which to spring. True, idle gossip may have nurtured it and influenced 
its rapid and perhaps distorted growth. But, nevertheless, it had to retain 
some fundamental characteristics and it is to those in this case to which 
we object.
If at least an understandable excuse would be given for not wanting 
the girls in the library, student reaction and opinion would be less heated 
and cooperation would result. But the remark that the library should not 
be what it has become  a date-bureau  is rather feeble. From personal 
observation we have never seen more than five people in the Main Library 
at one time, and even that number is rare. Seldom are there girls and if 
there are they are busy studying and often sitting apart from the men. The 
whole room, as a matter of fact, strikes us 'as being the place on campus 
least conducive to date making. The atmosphere is absolutely anti-social.
Perhaps the date-bureau excuse is only a cover-up for some others. 
The protection of the engineers from the wild, unscrupulous, and even 
demoralizing Maggie Murphs, perhaps. Or, the protection of the girls hose 
from the rough edges of the library chairs. The answer could be anything, 
and it is that anything we want to know.
It strikes us that the date-bureau remark may be based on incidents 
in the Hut. Then, the fact that the Hut is no longer the library would 
render the remark out-of-date. We wonder, now, how the new library will 
be arranged. The proposed plan in the show case in Industries Hall shows 
that it will be one building of two or three floors. Now, will there be 
separate doors, staircases, and rooms for men and women? Will the 
antiquated practice today hold over to the modernistic future of tomorrow?
We are inclined to believe that the practice is one without rule or regu
lation behind it. In the two years we have been at Carnegie Tech we have 
never heard an announcement stating that boys and girls both were not 
to use the Main Library. If such a rule exists we suggest that the student 
body be informed of it so that no future embarrassment occur or antag
onism arise. We also suggest that an explanation be offered as to why this 
practice exists in the Main Library only and not also in the Social Relations 
Library on the next floor in the same building. A. C. H.
A Timely Thought
I wisht I was a little Bond 
For $18.75
And earning nearly three percent 
To keep myself alive.
I wouldnt eat, I wouldnt drink,
But golly! How Id thrive 
By sitting still for ten short years 
To draw down $25!
VERNON L. SMITH,
Lake Worth, Florida.
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the Haff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Carnt(ic Institute *f Technology, Scheniey Park, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
PHONE MAYFLOWER *600 PHONE SCHENLEY 4057
One of the Profs
After Office Hours Call
Editor-in-chief .......... Emerson 1808
Business Manager........Jackson 9896
WMC0KNTIO WOm NATIONAL ADVKRTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative 
420 Madison Avk. New York. n. Y.
Chicaso  BO*TO*  Los AIKI1.II > SAM Fmucisco 
Entered a* second-class matter In the Pittsburgh Post Office under the Act of March 3, 1879. 
Published weekly during school year, except holiday* and examination period*. 
Subscription Price SI.10 per year.
Editors-in-chief .......................................................... Ernie Lowenstein, Adeline Herlick
Managing Editor ............................................................................................... Clara Herron
Business Manager ......................................................................................... Paul Schucker
Advertising Manager ................................................................................... Joel Bigelman
Circulation Manager ....................................................................................... Sam Marcus
Sports Editor ................................................................................................... Tom Bokman
Are you a regular reader of Col
liers? Have you seen a copy of The 
Gates of Aulis, winner of the Dial 
Press Award in 1942? Do you occa
sionally leaf through the Readers 
Guide to Periodical Literature? Or 
have you ever followed the sound of 
merry laughter or of voices in earn
est discussion to the end of a dark 
corridor on the third floor of Fine
Arts? Then you are acquainted with 
Miss Gladys Schmitt, who teaches 
Thought and Expression to fresh
men from the Painting and Design, 
Music, Drama and Sculpture De
partments.
Even if you havent heard about 
Miss Schmitt before, you now know 
two facts about her: she is a writer 
and a teacher. However, if you have 
been in her classes you find both 
these facts easy to forget. Somehow 
she makes her students understand 
how she feelsthat she is a stu
dent, too, a friend to all of them, and 
a fellow worker with them toward 
these goals which she considers as 
the purpose of Thought and Expres
sion: to teach students to see them
selves in relationship to their own 
modern world; to teach them to 
think straight and to express their 
thoughts with some eloquence and 
grace; to help them to discover 
what knowledge and what pleasure 
can be found in reading; and to 
bring them to realize that writing 
is an art like any other, an art which 
any literate and sincere person can 
practice, use, and enjoy.
Miss Schmitt has been writing 
continually since she was nine years 
old. While a high school student, 
she won third prize in a poetry con
test sponsored by Scholastic. For a 
group of poems written while she 
was studying English Creative 
Writing at Pitt, she received first 
prize in the Witter Binnen Nation
al College Awards. Then in 1942, 
The Gates of Aulis won the one 
thousand doliar Dial Press Award 
for the best novel written by a 
young person about the problems 
facing American youth. While Miss 
Schmitt has been teaching at Car
negie Tech, she has written many 
short stories and has completed, 
three-fifths of a psychological novel 
based on the life of King David. 
Next fall Dial Press will publish 
this book, which will be approxi
mately twelve hundred pages long.
Short stories by Gladys Schmitt 
have appeared in The Atlantic
. . . Gladys Schmitt
Monthly, Colliers, Mademoiselle, 
Harpers Bazaar and Story. Some of 
her stories have not only been pub
lished in magazines, but have also 
been chosen for short story anthol
ogies. Consider the Giraffe was 
reprinted in Its a Womans World, 
a collection of the best stories which 
have appeared in Harpers Bazaar. 
All Souls, which was published in 
Colliers last year, was included in 
Martha Foleys The Best American 
Short Stories1944, and will appear 
soon in the 1944 O. Henry Memorial 
Anthology.
An inquiry about why she writes 
caused her to sit silent for a mo
ment. Then she answered very 
quietly, I believe I am a writer be
cause it is impossible for me to stop 
writing under any circumstances. I 
find writing very difficult work, and 
sometimes very discouraging work, 
but work which is as necessary to 
me as food and air.
Miss Schmitt came to Tech as a 
result of an interesting chain of cir
cumstances. In the spring of 1942, 
after having spent three years both 
in working on the staff of the Schol
astic as associate editor in charge 
of the teachers edition and in writ
ing the last three-fourth of The 
Gates of Aulis, she decided to re
turn to Pittsburgh as soon as the 
novel was published and to devote 
her time to writing. Three days 
before her final departure from New 
York City, a letter came from Pro
fessor Leo T. Lawler, who was until 
his recent death an associate pro
fessor of English at Carnegie. In his 
letter he mentioned that his com
mittee was planning a new type of 
English course for Fine Arts fresh
men, and that he was looking for a 
creative writer who would assist 
Professors Parshall and Crowell in 
making final plans and who would 
help to teach the course. The rec
ommendation of a Professor under 
whom Miss Schmitt had studied at 
Pitt interested Mr. Lawler; the fav
orable reviews of her Dial Press 
Award novel convinced him that 
she was the person for the job: Miss 
Schmitt, who has been enthusiastic 
about the possibilities of Thought 
and Expression from the time she 
first heard of the course accepted 
the position without hesitation. Now 
she is beginning her third year at 
Carnegie Tech, still loving to teach, 
still interested in Thought and Ex
pression but realizing how wrong 
was her belief that teaching three 
classes each day and helping many 
people individually with problems 
of writing, thinking and living 
would leave her with as much time 
as she would like to devote to writ
ing.
Now that you have met Miss 
Schmitt, the teacher, and Gladys 
Schmitt, the writer, would you like 
to be introduced to Mrs. Simon 
Goldfield, as Miss Schmitt is known 
in her private life? She is always 
ready to talk about Mr. Goldfields 
skill in coping with the problems 
that confront him in his position 
with the Pittsburgh Housing Au
thority as Assistant Manager of Glen 
Hazel Heights. And she will proud
ly tell of her husbands great love 
and knowledge of music and his 
talent for composing.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1944TH CARNEGIE TARTAN3
Ant Z-xJuld
Carnegie Paintings Reviewed By 
Typical CIT Artist and Engineer
The painting exhibition currently hanging in the galleries of Carnegie 
Institute has provoked much opinion and discussion. The first prize 
winner, especially, stimulated a whirlwind of argument for and against 
its value.
The effect of such an exhibition naturally reflects previous training 
and personal asthetic senses. For these reasons then, each individual is 
bound to develop an individual opinion.
In the following two columns, we are presenting the reactions of two 
Carnegie Tech students, a P & D student and an engineer.
* * * * * *
As an art student, my impressions 
of the current exhibit are not neces
sarily superior or controversial to 
those of any other student. A back
ground in art provides a better un
derstanding of why a picture is 
pleasing or displeasing, of what the 
artist wishes to express, and how he 
uses the technical means at his com
mand to express it. Perhaps the art 
student can better appreciate uni
que experimental efforts. Yet his 
likes and dislikes are primarily per
sonal reactions.
The current exhibit of Painting in 
the United, States is on the whole 
better than that of last year. In 
spite of the fact that the works are 
disquietingly similar and reveal lit
tle experimentation, they show the 
natural improvement of a years 
time.
As for the prize winners, much 
has been said, can be said, and al
ways will be said. Although I was 
prepared to dislike the first prize 
winner, Room 110, I found it some
what pleasing, though hardly out
standing. Its color, and its combina
tion of shapes into an organized 
whole seemed its primary virtues. 
However, Kuniyoshis work has 
never appealed to me. Doris Lees 
Siesta is refreshing and entertain
ing, with a rather nice flat pattern, 
but it failed to excite me. Of the 
prize winners, I definitely preferred 
Mississippi Girl. Its mood, charac
terization, understanding and freedoom of expression were indubita
bly successful.
Techs Mr. Hiltons On the Home 
Front was among my favorites. For 
the quality of mood, I liked 
Speights The Paver Street, Sheets 
India, 1944, and Mr. Rosenbergs 
Bread. For luscious color I enjoyed 
Ernsts The Eye of Silence. In the 
humorous vein, Pershings Dear 
Mrs. Smythe Has Been Very III, and 
Gwathmes Parade were nice. Of 
the abstracts I preferred Mr. 
Twiggs Vertical Construction to 
honorable mention winner, Arbore
tum by Flash-Bulb.
YOUR CHOICE'OF A BANK 
MAY BE THE BEGINNING 
OF A LONG AND USEFUL 
ASSOCIATION
MELLON 
NATIONAL BANK
^ MIMICR FIDIWAL DEPOSIT
INSURANCE COHPONAT ION *
As an engineer viewing for the 
first time an actual full-fledged art 
exhibit, I found the collection now 
at the Carnegie Institute, Painting 
in the U. S., 1944. to be not at all as 
I had expected. Of course, I dont 
pretend to be a critic of art, but I 
found the exhibit to be, if not stir
ring, at least disturbing, and thought 
provoking. The peaceful atmosphere 
of an art gallery would indicate that 
viewing a grouping of examples of 
the current trend in American 
painting would soothe and comfort 
a lover of art; yet in spite of the at
mosphere, I believe that most en
gineers would be more irritated 
than calmed by the time spent in 
trying to get some meaning from 
many of the typical art works 
^of 1944. I was.
As the collection is so large that 
there is hardly a single possible 
scene that is not treated in two or 
more pictures, I was more impress
ed by types than by specific ex
amples. Only about a third of the 
paintings on exhibit at Carnegie 
strike me as being art. The vast ma
jority of the paintings of 1944 must 
be of a type that doesnt suit an 
engineer, for the childish dabblings, 
under perfectly plausible titles to 
which they bore only a trace of re
semblance, were almost disgusting. 
Only a few of the paintings were of 
the type that I had expected to see 
realistic interpretations of scenes 
as they appear. The few I found 
under this heading I liked. Scenes 
and landscapes appealed to me, and 
I suppose my favorite was Good 
Crops. The portraits were certain
ly not outstanding, and some were 
monstrosities, while the geometric 
constructions could have been ex
celled by any mechanical drawing 
student with compasses and tri
angles.
Between the impressionistic 
dabblings, and ultra realistic types 
there were a number which seemed 
to indicate something, until one 
tried to decide just what. In this 
category was Room 110, the first 
prize winner. It disappointed me.
DAY OR NIGHT 
NIGHT OR DAY
THE COFFEE SHOP
is ready to serve you a cold snack, a 
hot lunch, or a substantial meal.
EXCELLENT FOOD
MODERATE PRICES
Tech Service Men Especially Welcome
HOTEL 
WEBSTER HALL
4415 FIFTH AVENUE 
Opposite Mellon Institute
Student Employment
All students who received summer jobs 
through the employment office are re
quested to report to Mrs. Major in Room 
155-A, Ind. Hall.
Girls
Receptionist in institution for blind. 
Room and board.
Boys
One boy wanted for evening work on 
campus. From 6 to 11, five nights a week. 
50c an hour.
Chauffeur wanted by family living near 
campus. Must be on call.
Holiday work. Postoffice and railroad 
companies are now lining up boys for 
work during the Christmas season. Those 
interested should report to Mrs. Major 
for further information.
Boy or Girl
Assistant in florist shop in East Lib
erty. From 6 to 9, four or five nights a 
week. 50c an hour.
Students who desire part time work 
and have not yet registered in the em
ployment office are urged to do so as 
soon as possible.
A painting which combined the best 
characteristics of the two extremes 
was a realistic interpretation of an 
abstract subject entitled Eye of Si
lence.
OPA Official Speaks 
On Buying of Clothing
At a meeting on Wednesday, Oc
tober 18th, the Home Economics 
Club sponsored a speech by Mrs. 
Jane Klingman, Chief of the Wom
ens Outerwear Section of the OPA. 
Dr. Calla Van Syckle, Home Eco
nomics Department head, introduc
ed the speaker and told of her train
ing at the University of Chicago, 
among other places, and of her ex
periences as a buyer in a depart
ment store. Mrs. Klingmans talk, 
When You Buy Clothes, concern
ed her duties with the OPA in 
Washington, D. C. She described the 
many procedures necessary when a 
ceiling price is put on an article of 
clothing. She also gave an encour
aging outlook as to the future of 
clothing buying in U. S. Clothes 
are being made with the consumer 
in mind, she said, in spite of the 
growing shortage of cotton material 
and the many wartime restrictions 
that have become necessary.
Scratch another Zeke 
...and look out below!
Navy dive bombers  about to strike! In each rear cock
pit rides a radio gunner  trusted protector of his pilot 
and plane. His skill with radio and detection devices 
permits his pilot to concentrate on flying the plane and 
blasting the objective. His marksmanship makes enemy 
planes scarcer, brings V-Day nearer.
Until that day comes, Western Electric's major job 
will be making huge quantities of radio and detection 
devices. As our forces strike farther and farther into the 
vast areas of the Pacific,these electronic weapons become 
more important than ever. At Western Electric, many 
college graduates  both men and women  are helping 
to put these weapons in our fighters hands.
Buy all the War Bond* you can and keep themt
Western Electric
IN PEACE...SOURCE Or SUPPLY fOR THE Ell SYSTEM. 
IN WAR...ARSENAL Of COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT.

---------------------------------------------------

4
\\THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1944
... A.C.A.C. Minutes...
Fifty-second Meeting 
October 4, 1944
The meeting was called to order at 5:15 
p.m.
Present: Messrs. Wangeman, Bokman, 
and Lowenstein; Misses Barclay, Bauer, 
Brooks, and Garland.
COMMITTEE REPORTS 
Publications
Mr. Ernest Lowenstein, co-editor of the 
Tartan, will represent the Publications 
Committee on A.C.A.C.
Elections
Mr. Lowenstein moved that the follow
ing addition be made to Rule No. 3 of the 
Rules for Elections: A student must
have attended C.I.T. for one calendar 
month before he will be eligible to vote 
on Election Day.
Motion carried.
Budgets
Mr. Bokman moved that the revised 
budget for the Halloween Dance on Oct. 
28 in Thistle Hall, sponsored by Inter
fraternity Council, be accepted provided 
that any surplus accrued as a result of 
the dance be used to underwrite future 
projects of Interfraternity Council.
Motion carried.
NEW BUSINESS
Miss Bauer moved that the Freshmen 
Tea, sponsored by M.M.C.C. Senate on 
Oct. 17 at the Union, be approved.
Motion carried.
Miss Bauer announced that members of 
C.W.C.A. had asked for activity keys. It 
was decided that C.W.C.A. should make a 
written statement to A.C.A.C. stating 
why they should be awarded activity 
keys and to whom these keys should be 
awarded.
Mr. Lowenstein suggested that A.C.A.C. 
should set up a written policy stating 
which organization on campus should be 
awarded activity keys and what qualifi
cations are necessary for these awards. 
Definite action will be taken at a future 
time.
Adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
BERNICE BARCLAY,
Secretary.
Fifty-third Meeting 
October 11, 1944
The meeting was called to order at 5:15 
p.m.
Present: Messrs. Daniels, Snow, Low
enstein, and Pollock. Misses Barclay, 
Brooks, Garland, Ferraez, Swaney, and 
Werner.
NEW BUSINESS
The following nominations were made 
for student chairman of A.C.A.C.; Messrs. 
Snow and Lowenstein. Mr. Lowenstein 
was elected.
It was moved that Miss Garland be 
chosen chairman of the Social Committee 
of A.C.A.C.
Motion carried.
It was moved that Miss Brooks be
chosen chairman of the Budget Committee 
of A.C.A.C.
Motion carried.
It was moved that Mr. Pollock be
chosen chairman of the Elections Com
mittee of A.C.A.C.
Motion carried.
It was moved that Miss Werner be
chosen chairman of the Committee on
Points and Keys of A.C.A.C.
Motion carried.
Mr. Daniels suggested that clarifications 
be made in the Constitution of A.C.A.C. 
concerning the elections of its representa
tives (Section III). He also suggested 
that an amendment be made to the Con
stitution stating that the term of office 
for its members should be set at one 
academic year. Mr. Lowenstein appoint
ed the following people to serve on the 
Constitutional Committee which will 
make the necessary changes in the Con
stitution: Mr. Snow, Misses Barclay and
Ferraez.It was suggested to A.C.A.C. that before 
any elections on campus were held, 
A.C.A.C. post notices on all bulletin 
boards stating what offices were open and 
the qualifications for these offices. It was 
agreed at the meeting that this policy 
would be carried out in the future.
Miss Barclay reported that a number 
of people were interested in redecorating The Hut. It was decided that mem
bers of A.C.A.C. would solicit suggestions 
and plans from the student body. A dis
cussion of these plans and suggestions 
will be held at the next meeting.
Adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
BERNICE BARCLAY,
Secretary.
Fifty-fourth Meeting 
October 18, 1944 
The meeting was called to order at 5:00 
p.m.
Present: Messrs. Daniels, Lowenstein,
and Pollock; Misses Barclay, Bauer, Fer
raez, Garland, Swaney, and Werner.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Elections
Mr. Lowenstein moved that the follow
ing report submitted by Mr. Bokman on 
the results of the election held October 6 
be approved:
Asst. Secretary to A.C.A.C.Shirley 
Swaney.
Engineering Representative to A.C.A.C. 
Jack Pollock.
Arts School Representatives to A.C.A.C. 
(2)Pat Werner and Doris Ferraez.
Vice-President of W.A.A.Carol Ford. 
M.M.C.C.
Sophomore Senate Representative 
Helen Miller.
Sophomore PresidentJanet Whitney. 
Sophomore Vice-President  Nancy 
Smith.
Sophomore Secretary  Geraldine 
Hunter.
Sophomore TreasurerMary Gannon. 
Freshman Senate RepresentativeNor
ma Shaw.
Freshman PresidentMary Roney. 
Freshman Vice-PresidentHelen Zim
merman.
Freshman SecretaryKatherine Glass. 
Freshman Treasurer  Nancy Craig
head.
Freshman Representative to W.A.A. 
Margaret Will.
Senior Senate Representative  Jane 
Musser Frederickson.
Motion carried.
OLD BUSINESS
Redecoration of the Hut
Before any definite plans are made with 
respect to the redecoration of the Hut, 
it was decided that A.C.A.C. would dis
cuss the matter with Mr. Keck and Mr. 
Miller. A.C.A.C. will ask the Interior 
Decoration Department of the Arts School 
for plans and suggestions. They will also 
place posters on all bulletin boards to 
arouse the student interest and will re
quest permission to sponser a Tag Day. 
The proceeds of such a Tag Day are to 
be used to finance this project.
NEW BUSINESS
It was moved that Miss Garland rep
resent A.C.A.C. on Womens Guild. 
Motion carried.
Mr. Daniels requested that Miss Bar
clay read the following regulations gov
erning extracurricular activities which 
was approved by the Executive Board on 
April 23, 1942:
Whereas, it is an honor to participate 
in extracurricular activities and student 
government; and
Whereas, associations on an honest and 
honorable basis are a part of a full col
lege program; and.
Whereas, it is desirable to have stu
dents take an active interest in extra
curricular activities and student government; and
Whereas, it is desirable to give all stu
dents an equal opportunity; and
Whereas, economic conditions dictate 
that money be expended for participation 
in activities only when a student is de
serving and in financial need;
Therefore, the Faculty Advisory Com
mittee on Student Activities having in 
mind the ideals of honor and honesty in 
student affairs recommends to the Execu
tive Board of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology and to Student Council of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology;
1. NO COMPENSATION FOR EXTRA
CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES:
a. That no compensation shall be paid 
for participation in extra-curricular 
activities.
(1) Any student who has a quality 
point factor of 2.00 or above 
and who holds an office which 
paid a salary in 1941-42 may be 
eligible to apply for grants in 
aid to the Committee on Finan
cial Aid for Students.
(2) That after the 1942-43 school 
year any extracurricular activ
ity organization may petition 
Student Council to have their 
members or officers made eligi
ble for Financial Aid.
2. SOCIAL FUNCTIONS:
a. That the employment of students for 
all concessions which have been op
erated in the past or which may be 
deemed necessary in the future is 
to be handled by the organization 
sponsoring the function through the 
office of the Counselor on Financial 
Aid to Students. At the conclusion 
of the operation of these conces
sions, a Statement of profit and loss
 and substantiating bills and receipts 
must be presented to the Assistant 
Dean (of Men).
b. That the Assistant Dean (of Men) 
is to be the sole contact man in be
half of the school in the matter of 
booking bands for all school dances, 
with the exception of individual 
fraternity functions.
c. That the printing and issuing of all 
tickets of admission to any C.I.T. 
student event shall be done through 
the Assistant Dean (of Men).
d. That in the future no organization 
may conduct any function of any na
ture whatsoever for which there is 
an admission charge, the sole or 
part purpose of which is to -finan
cially benefit the members individ
ually.
3. AUDITING:
That every organization and extra
curricular activity shall keep a pre
scribed set of books and shall prepare
a budget of its incomes and expenses 
and submit a periodical statement to 
the Assistant Dean (of Men) of their 
incomes and disbursements. As of 
July 1 each year, the Assistant Dean 
(of Men) shall prepare an annual 
statement to be audited by the Con
trollers office.
4. PUBLICATIONS:
a. That the Publications Committee to 
be composed of the Chairman of 
Publications of Student Council, the 
Editor, and the Business Manager of 
each C.I.T. publication shall per
form the following functions:
(1) After consultation with the staff 
concerned, recommend to Stu
dent Council a definite basis for 
selecting the staff of each pub
lication.
(2) Recommend to Council the of
ficers of each publication.
(3) Recommend to the Faculty Ad
visory Committee on Student 
Activities the policy to be fol
lowed by publications.
b. That in the event of disagreement 
between the Publications Committee 
and Student Council, the Faculty 
Advisory Committee on Student Ac
tivities shall arbitrate the matter 
and recommend to the Executive 
Board the solution.
c. That the Manager of the News Bu
reau shall be adviser to the Com
mittee and each of the publications 
represented thereon.
It was decided that all budgets which 
come to A.C.A.C. for approval will be 
tabled until the next meeting at which 
time they will be considered.
Cwens asked A.C.A.C. to approve a 
Cwen Tag Day on November 28 which 
will be held for the benefit of the En
dowment Fund. It was moved that this 
request be tabled until the next meeting 
when A.C.A.C. will have definite infor
mation about the policy followed in re
gard to Tag Day.
Motion carried.
Cwens asked A.C.A.C. to approve a 
Cwen Benefit Party to be held on Decem
ber 9 in Thistle Hall. This party will be 
held instead of the usual Cwen Tea 
Dance. A.C.A.C. asked that Cwens pre
sent a proposed budget, for the Benefit 
Bridge Party, and that definite alloca
tion of profits be indicated.
Mr. Daniels read a letter from the In
ternational Relations Club asking A.C.A.C. 
to assist in financing the traveling and 
lodging expenses of four delegates to the 
Regional Conference to ..be held at Marywood College in Scranton, Pa. on Novem
ber 17 and 18. A.C.A.C. tabled this re
quest until the next meeting. 
Adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
BERNICE BARCLAY,
Secretary.
C S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0183
Let's go to
ISALY'S
MILK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM CONES
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Alliei
SAVING AMERICA TIME AND EFFORT
To ThehCar ngi tVo ways and means for saving time and effort 
is a typical American trait. You see it among your classmates and 
you exhibit the same shrewdness when you send your packages, 
laundry and baggage, home and return, by Railway Express. The 
pick-up and delivery at your door, and the quick forwarding by fast 
trains, or by superspeed Air Express planes, is a shipping service 
unique in American life. It has saved time and effort for generations 
of college students.
These nation-wide facilities are now being utilized to^heir utmost 
by the government, industry and the public. You can help Railway 
Express to carry its share of this war-time load by doing three simple 
things: Wrap your packages securelyad 
dress them clearlyexpress them early. "A 
shipment started right is half-way there.
NATION - WIDE 
RAIL-AIR SERVICE

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1944THE CARNEGIE TARTAN5
Rea Simon . . .
She perks, she twinkles, and she 
gets things doneshes got blonde 
hair, blue eyes, and a Pepsodent 
smile. Whoever originated the say
ing that good things come in little 
packages must have been clairvoy
ant and foreseen the birth of one
Rea Simon. This diminutive figure 
has the proverbial finger in every 
pie on campus. Her first victory was 
her appointment to the Senate as 
representative from the freshman 
class. Later, she was initiated into 
the Cwens. She also became a mem
ber of the Dance Club, in which she 
has been very active. This Home 
Economics senior was honored by 
being appointed to three beauty 
courtsSpiring Carnival of 1943,
Junior Prom of 1943, and Spring 
Carnival of 1944. An interesting in
cident happened to Rea after the 
Spring Carnival issue 1943 of the 
Scottie, in which were printed the 
pictures of all the candidates for 
Carnival Queen. Rea received a let
ter several months after the affair 
from a sailor on the U. S. S. Hel
ena who informed her that she had 
been chosen queen of the ship from 
her picture in the Scottie, a copy 
of which somehow found its way to 
the boat. A few days after the let
ter was written, the Helena sank.
Rea, a graduate of Taylor-Allderdice High School, achieved the high
est honor awarded to a college 
woman when she was tapped to 
Mortar Board on Call Day at Spring 
Carnival, 1944. This honor was fur
ther enhanced by her subsequent 
election as president of the organ
ization.
In the way of hobbies Rea reg
ularly writes to twenty-five friends 
in the service of Uncle Sam, and 
when she goes dancing she prefers 
the rhumba. Like all true Techites, 
Rea also numbers bridge near the 
top of this list. In the sports line, 
she prefers horse-back riding.
In the pet peeve column Rea is 
most apt to list rolling stockings at 
the knees, with missing the Sunday 
funnies as a close runner up.
When she is graduated from Car
negie Tech, Rea plans to get a job 
so that she can know that she hasnt 
wasted the past four years, and 
then, she says slyly, I want to get 
marriedsomeday! 
diri colyum
Greetings, all you jivin guys and 
gals. Now, lets see, whats on the 
dirt list for this weekWell, first 
of all, has anyone noticed that gleam 
in Helen Van Dykes eyes? It could 
be that D. U. Jimmie Gilmartin is 
home from the Merchant Marine for 
20 lovely days. Happy Days . . .
Marge Reno is hoping that luck 
stays with her. Shes expecting to 
see her man home around Thanks
giving. We all hope for you too.
We understand that Jane Ramesy 
wants to take a trip to Cuba after 
the war. Frank L. makes it look 
just beautiful.
Sally Rosenberg sits for the mail
man every morning. Could it be 
those letters from Tau Delt F Ab
ramson?
It looks as though there may still 
be a little hope for this Friedman 
and Caplan romance . , . . They 
were seen together again  after 
quite an absence.
Terry Reig has been on a pink 
cloud since her dates with that 
darling Medical student from Pitt 
. . . or is he a Dental Student? Oh, 
whats the difference?Shes happy-Whos this little man that Betty 
Frishkorn is expecting home for 
Xmas? Come on, Betty, give out 
with the secrets.
We hear from reliable sources 
that Freshman, Muriel Stickle, 
(Stick) was quite disappointed last 
week-end when she had to turn 
down a date with her Beta Dream
A scene from Act 3
ManBut guess the party last Sat
urday night made up for everything.
The Betas are certainly enlarg
ing their family. Dick McCloskey, 
now in the Army Air Corps, is re
sponsible for the latest. Our own 
little Ann Richards, and a brand 
new pin!
My crystal ball informs me that 
there are quite a few gals who 
would like to change their course to 
Architectureas they have darling 
new boys on that floor of Arts.
Pat Turton is really serious over 
her latest romance. From all reports 
hes a Grefck god . . . Ruffff.
Jean Garland trekked to Wash
ington, D. C. last week end to see 
Jay Corbett. Reports indicate that 
the fire still burns brightly.
Who, we wonder, is that hand
some sojer who captured Bee Asplundhs heart in Philadelphia last 
week end?
We saw Warren Snow and Julianne Stansbury at the Art Cinema a 
week ago, and we wonder if their 
being pinned makes things like that 
all right. Captain Thomas, of the 
ROTC department was there that 
night tooalone.
Who is that always-sleepy emac
iated looking Tau Delt freshman 
who wows the girls with his Si
natra-like appearance.
We saw Beta Sig Larry Kettler 
back on campus last week. One of 
the Maggie Murph, freshman, Es
telle Mattes? seemed especially 
glad to see hijm.
Homecoming
Continued from page 1 
the alumni and added another big 
hit to their record. Bill LeRoys Or
chestra played for dancing from 
9:30 until 1:00 oclock.
The Pittsburgh Womens Clan 
sponsored a successful reception 
and tea at the Carnegie Union in 
the afternoon. Attendance was 
large.
Many prominent alumni attended 
the various functions of the Home
coming. Among those from out of 
town were the following: Mr. N. H. 
Orr, Denver, Colo., Vice Pres. Colo
rado Fuel and Iron Corp.; Mrs. Kit
ty M. Farrior, Montreal, N. C., re
cently returned from China; Mr. 
Benjamin Watrous, Scranton, Pa.; 
Mr. C. R. Holzworth, Buffalo, N. Y., 
Vice Pres. Tonawanda Iron Corp.; 
Mr. George A. Ebeling, Cleveland, 
Ohio, Architect; and Mr. Frederick 
A. Faville, Chicago, 111., President 
Faville-LaValle Corp.
CIT Students Work 
For Weather Bureau
This spring an appeal, made to 
Carnegie Tech to recruit personnel 
for a U. S. Departent of Commerce, 
Weather Bureau, U. S. Army Air 
Forces, cooperative project, was 
practically answered by a number 
of our students. This project in
cluded among other important 
problems, the editing and coding of 
several million synoptic weather ob
servations.
Both agencies felt the demand for 
competent personnel. It seemed 
doubtful for a time that a capable 
number of persons could be obtain
ed to undertake the task and finish 
it within the deadline date estab
lished.
With the services of a number of 
students from Carnegie Tech, the 
work was completed on time. The 
following students are to be com
mended for the part that they play
ed in this important project: 
Beamon, Gertrude 
Bloch, Beverly 
Brady, Barbara 
Brunn, Lois 
Doniger, Shirley 
Finkelstein, Adele 
Flanangan, Mary 
Herron, Clara 
Miller, Helen 
Murray, Janet 
Reno, Marjorie 
Rupre cht, Clara
Delia
Muller...
Continued, from page 1 
these classes Harry became ac
quainted with the sculpture depart
ment and likes everyone in it. In 
July, 1944 Harry joined the Army 
Air Force and is still waiting to be 
called. He was told that he would 
leave in three weeksbut you know 
the Army.
Fort Pitt is the Place
to Rent
TYPEWRITERS
ALL
MAKES
$3.00 per 
Month
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
One of the Girls

---------------------------------------------------

6THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1944
C.W.C.A. Plans First 
Dinner For This Year
Although there was a C. W. C. A. 
dinner for the freshmen in Septem
ber, the first meeting for all the 
members of the organization will 
be held Monday, October 30, at 5:00 
in the Carnegie Union. The dinner 
will cost forty cents. Those who in
tend to go, must buy their ticket be
fore Friday, October 27 in order 
that the meal can be planned. The 
cabinet decided that the years din
ner meetings would be planned dif
ferently. Speakers would be pre
sented only occasionally, and skits 
and other peppy activities would 
take their place. The theme of the 
meeting this Monday will be to tell 
the freshmen the purpose of C. W. 
C. A., the committees and activities 
that are included in the organiza
tion. A skit will be given by the cab
inet, which will have charge of the 
meeting.
Strange Campus Events 
Revealed by Exchanges
Princeton, N. J.Five freshmen 
shocked some seven hundred girls 
who were guests at Princetons 
house parties when they picketed 
the campus as a protest against the 
excessive use of lipstick. They pa
raded around the campus in soiled 
evening clothes hoisting huge ban
ners which read, Greasy Painted 
Lips Are Unfair to Love; Out on 
Kiss Strike; Do not Patronize Paint
ed Lips; Help Reduce Our Laundry 
Bills.
Madison, Wisconsin  A Univer
sity of Wisconsin senior with noth
ing else to do computed that 120 
students dancing on a ballroom 
floor release enough energy to raise 
a five-ton elephant thirty miles in 
the air. The question is: just why 
do students spend time raising cain, 
when they could be raising ele
phants?
Evanston, Illinois  In view of 
past difficulties the police depart
ment has extended a cordial invita
tion to the students of Northwestern 
asking them to please stay out of 
troublewhat Northwestern needs 
is mutual harmony between the 
cop and gown!
New Orleans, Louisiana:The Tulane debating team has found a sim
ple, albeit, unusual way of guaran
teeing large audiences. The team 
merely chooses interesting subjects. 
A typical topic is Should bachelors 
be taxed to support old maids?
Athens, Georgia  It must hap
pen everywhere. A factually-mind
ed student at the University of 
Georgia computed that registration 
lines took up 21,000 student hours. 
We could use about half that total 
the night before a quiz.
Wichita, KansasThe University 
of Wichita students must all be four 
factor material, for the education 
class determined that the average 
collegian slept 56 hours a week (i. e., 
eight hours each night). I must have 
read the wrong catalog!
Chicago, Illinois  Arnjour Insti
tute freshmen are extremely welldisciplined, and for good reason. 
The neophites who slip up on reg
ulations may actually be caught 
with their pants down! If any frosh 
is caught breaking rules he is re
lieved of his trousers for a period 
of time determined by the sopho
mores, and must attend all classes 
pantlesspardon my Kilts!
Earl Wild, Pianist, 
To Play at Town Hall
Added to the long list of Pitts
burghs notables is the handsome, 
young pianist, Earl Wild, who grad
uated from C. I. T. as a piano major'. 
After having studied with such 
men as Selmar Jansen, Egon Petri' 
and Paul Doguereau, he was engag
ed while still in his teens by Frank 
Black for the NBC Symphony Or
chestra.
Mr. Wild entertained countless 
thousands of service men, war work
ers, and government officials dur
ing his two years as a Musician First 
Class in the United States Navy. 
While in the Navy, he played a com
mand performance at the White 
House, where he performed a solopiano recital for the President and 
Britains envoy, Anthony Eden. 
While in Washington, D. C., he also 
played nineteen different concertos 
with the Navy Symphony Orches
tra.
While in the Navy he appeared as 
guest soloist twice with the NBC 
Symphony Orchestra, under Arturo 
Toscanini and Frank Black, also 
with Artur Rodzinski and the 
Cleveland Orchestra. Since his honoble discharge from the Navy this 
summer, Wild has appeared as solo
ist on a Cities Service Concert, on 
the Philco Hour with Paul White
man, the General Motors Hour, and 
with the NBC Symphony.
Mr. Wild is giving his first New 
York recital at Town Hall, Octo
ber 30. He will play such wellknown selections as Sonata D Ma
jor by Haydn, Fantasie C Major, 
Op. 17, by Schumann, Etudes Tab
leaux, by Rachmaniff, and So
nata Tragico C Minor Op. 39, No. 
5, by Medtner.
On The Record
Hungry Tartanettes grab some lunch in the Grill. 
* * * * *
Record recitals are being given 
twice a week in the Fine Arts Build
ing, Room 157, at twelve oclock. 
The Tuesday recitals which are con
ducted by Prof. Pearson will con
sist of selections requested by per
sons planning to attend. The Thurs
day recitals are conducted by Dr. 
Dorian, and will be made up of both 
modern and classical selections. He 
has suggested using composers less
er known works in order to make 
them more familiar to those of us 
who are interested. Mr. Pearsons 
program for Tuesday will be the pi
ano concerto No. 1 in B Flat Minor 
by Tchaikowsky.
Everyone is welcome. Wont you 
come?
Blood Donor Assembly 
Offers Red Cross Movie
Mrs. J. M. Shilliday, well known 
Red Cross worker, will speak at the 
assembly sponsored by the Mortar 
Board, on October 31, for the pur
pose of arousing interest in dona
tions to the Blood Bank. Mrs. Shilli
day will open the rally by present
ing a Red Cross movie, Lifeline, and 
all information concerning this drive 
will be given at that time.
The members of Mortar Board 
have pledged themselves to provide 
200 donors a day, and have taken 
over the Blood Bank in the Wabash 
Building for November 9, 10, and
11, which will be known as Carnegie 
Tech days.
Rea Simon is in charge of the as
sembly, and Peggy Cole and Irene 
Waichler of the publicity.
The time was eight forty-five A. 
M. on the first day of fall. We gath
ered our little band together in 
front of the canteen, alias the Hut, 
with the avowed purpose of delving 
into the deep dark secrets of a 
Techites torturous journey to her 
first period class.
Our line of attack led across the 
cut in the direction of the street car 
line, the commuters paradise, but 
before we had gone ten feet, a rank 
of girls filled our viewfinder, and we 
simply had to take their picture.
The five girls are from left to 
right: Harriet Didler, Ginny Lerch, 
Mary Lou Lerch, Doris Jean Davis, 
and Louise George.
Pushing through the masses of 
eager Techites we came to the half
way mark: the point where the 
trails divide, and engineers and 
Maggie Murphs say their fond fare
wells. Here, with our little Kodak, 
we took a picture of Janet Hartman, 
Betty Floyd, and Elizabeth Twitchell.
Later we uncovered a group of 
freshman going through the unnec
essary process of partaking nourish
ment.
Apparently alone was Phil Grant, 
while from left to right are Barbara 
Erwin, June Reilley, Ann Young, 
Ibby Miller.
About the Campus   
The start of another weary day  crossing the Cut.
A street car disgorges studentsSmiling faces

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1944THE CARNEGIE TARTAN7
<Mo+U3Sl RollCarnegie Boys Meet 
Again In Far East
Dottie King, senior sculpture stu
dent, recently received a letter from 
a former Carnegie Tech boy, Don 
Van Eskey, who is now stationed 
Somewhere in China. Some parts of 
the letter which would interest the 
student body generally and perhavs, 
in some cases, particularly, are pre
sented here:
Well, I have been overseas now 
for about eight months and up un
til about a week ago I was in India. 
Do you remember any of the fel
lows that used to be in architecture 
at Tech? If you do here is some
thing that might interest you. 
About a year and a half ago a bunch 
of us Tech students met in Pitts
burgh and left for the Army to
gether. We went to a reception 
camp and from there to Fort Belvoir. Bob Hinkle (remember him?) 
and I took basic together there, 
along with some other architects. I 
went to the hospital there with an 
infected right index finger (now 
rendered uselessdrawing finger at 
that). Hink followed me with the 
flu. At the end of basic I went to a 
camp near Pittsburgh and Hink out 
to the west coast. I went to the hos
pital for two weeks with pneumonia 
and of course Hink did the same 
way across the country. Shortly 
afterward I left for overseas and my 
boy likewise. Upon my arrival in 
India, the very first day in fact, I 
met Hink at the same camp I was 
assigned to. A few days later I 
went to the hospital with jungle 
fever and two weeks later my boy 
followed me once more to the hos
pital with the same sickness. About 
two months ago while on a Red 
Cross tour I met Chuck Fooey (re
member him?) sitting on the steps 
of a temple with his sketch book 
and pencil. Just about two weeks 
ago who should arrive at the 
camp Hink and I were at, fresh 
from the States, the one and only 
Lew Klein. Shortly afterwards he 
shipped out to a place I am not al
lowed to mention. Hink is still in 
India and I am in China. I hope he 
catches up with me again. So now 
you can see that it is a small world 
after all. Tech is well represented in 
the far East.
Psalm of C.I.T.
Dr. Teare is my teacher;
I shall not sleep
He maketh me to fret over hard 
problems
He guideth me away from easy an
swers
He burdenth my mind
He guideth me in the paths of practibility for industrys sake.
Yea, though I doze in my class
rooms, I must slave through 
my nights.
I may fear no problem; my demon is 
with me.
My psi and my i, they comfort me. 
He setteth a quiz before me, un
mindful of my factor 
He burdeneth my head with prob
lems; my brain runneth over. 
Surely flux linkages and time con
stants shall follow me all the 
days of my life.
And I shall dwell with his six points 
forever.
By Robert Teasdale
Once again the war has substracted from the rolls of recent students 
of Carnegie. This week we regret
fully take the names of Sgt. Norman 
Apell and Captain Robert Camp
bell from the lists of the living and 
place them on our honor roll.
Sgt. Norman Apell enlisted in the
in KkeJu . . .
Norman Apell
Army during his junior year in Car
negies Dramatic Department. While 
on campus he was an active member 
of Beta Sigma Rho. Norman left for 
overseas in July, 1944, and he was 
reported killed in action August 28,
1944. His home was in Mt. Vernon, 
New York.
Captain Robert Campbell, Pilo(t, 
U. S. Air Corps, left Carnegie in
1942. At that time he was a sculp
ture major in the Painting and De
sign Department. Bob was a Delta 
Tau Delta active while attending 
Carnegie. Captain Campbell was re
cently reported killed in action 
while flying a volunteer mission.
Football. . .
Continued from page 1 
out, they managed another first 
down, and were kept out of trouble 
by the explosive punts of Johnny 
Latchut. After the turbulent third 
quarter, TX managed to get a drive 
started which carried to the KSAE 
seven, where they lost the ball. 
The finals: TX 6, KSAE 7.
The wallowing Betas battled the 
beefy Wildcats well for a half, then 
fell apart to lose a 17-6 decision. A 
blocked kick by Paul Schucker pav
ed the way for the only Beta score. 
At this point a pass interception by 
Wildcat Katsillas was run back for 
the score and the Wildcats moved 
ahead. Captain Mike Theodore took 
a pass in the Beta end zone as the 
game ended.
The Theta Xi-Wildcat game of the 
previous week which ended in a 
victory for the Wildcats by 23-17 
was brought before the intramural 
board under the TX protest. In a 
last-quarter touchdown pass, Mike 
Theodore merely tapped a pass in
tended for him to a passing team 
mate who ran for the score. The 
TXs contended that this play was 
illegal, and were upheld by the 
board. The game will be replayed 
today. j A -v
STANDINGS
W. L.
KSAE .........................................3 0
Theta Xi ...................................1 1
DTD.........................................1 1
Wildcats ...................................1 1
Betas .........................................1 2
By Dale Wright
parts of the world.
In the North African group of this 
vital detachment are Harvey Hill, 
Lewis Jacobs, William Michalik, 
Douglass Pickering, Raymond Fish
er, Herbert and Virgil Hartman, all 
well-known on the campus when 
they left a year ago. Some of these 
boys are graduates and others are 
undergraduates. Four were training 
to be industrial designers, two to be 
teachers, and one to be an illustra
tor.
In a group in Australia, near Bris
bane, are Lee K. Watkins (son of 
Dr. Watkins), and Russell (Rusty) 
Cameron. Formerly in the England 
group but now at work in an un
identified spot in France are two 
more Tech boys: Bob Smith and 
Bucky Shewitz. All of the boys in 
the modelmaking detachment were 
selected by the faculty of Painting 
and Design Department for the par
ticular jobs they are doing.
Miss Bernice Cecelia Shine, a C. I. 
T. graduate with a B. S. degree, was 
recently commissioned a second 
lieutenant in the U. S. Army. A 
member of a special officer candi
date class, composed of experienced 
newspaper women, Lt. Shine will be 
assigned as a public relations officer. 
Prior to her enlistment in the Wom
ens Army Corp, Lt. Shine was a 
member of the staff of the Pitts
burgh Sun Telegraph and was ac
tive in many journalistic activities 
of the city.
Womens Guild
At the meeting of Womens Guild 
held on Friday, October 20, election 
of officers for the coming year took 
place.
Sue Scott was elected president, 
and Mary Lou Ashe, Jean Garland, 
and Adeline Herlick, were chosen 
vice-presidents representing dormi
tories, sororities, and honoraries, re
spectively.
The secretary is Joan Gordon, 
Cottie Lowry is treasurer, and Scottie Atkinson is assistant treasurer.
War Fund Drive
C.I.T. students and faculty will 
participate in the United War Fund 
Drive, from October 23 to Novem
ber 9. Mr. Kent D. Shaffer, director 
of the drive at Tech, has announced 
the same program will be followed 
this year as last, when $7,195 was 
given by Tech. All students will be 
reached by volunteer student speak
ers, who will address forty-two class 
groups.
Our campaign is part of a larger 
Pittsburgh area drive and of the 
National War Drive. The goal for 
Pittsburgh is $5,411,237 and for the 
nation is $115,000,000. Part of the 
money subscribed in the Pittsburgh 
district will go for the Community 
Fund, and part to the National War 
Fund. Tech students should do 
their part to make this drive a suc
cess.
Lt. Bernice C. Shine
Lament
Study is too much with us; late and 
soon
Sweating and swearing we lay 
waste our powers
Little we see in college that is ours
We have whiled our hours away 
a sorry tune
And foolish too; semesters end so 
soon.
Yes we who have been slaving at all 
hours
We now are beaten down like help
less flowers.
For this, for everything, we are out 
of tune
Work leaves us naught; Great God, 
Id rather be
An idiot to a life of ignorance born
So might I, lie neath some shady 
tree
Have little rests to make me less toil 
worn
Have sight of Respite coming close 
to me
Or hear commencement sound a 
farewell horn.
Capt. Fred K. Whitlinger
Captain Fred K. Whitlinger, pilot 
of the Eighth Air Force B-17 Flying 
Fortress Smokey Liz, has been 
awarded the Distinguished Flying 
Cross for extraordinary achieve
ment while participating in many 
aerial blow against Nazi military 
and industrial installations. The 
Captain, who also has received the 
Air Medal with three Oak Leaf 
Clusters, is a member of the Third 
Bombardment Division, cited by the 
President for its breath-taking England-Africa shuttle bombing of Messerschmitt plants in Germany.
In past weeks, unconsciously lit
tle mention has been made of the 
boys in Fine Arts who are render
ing great, indispensible service to 
their country in technical positions. 
Of great value to invasion com
manders in all theaters of war is the 
work being done by many boys 
from the Painting and Design De
partment. They are members of the 
Armys Engineers Modelmaking De
tachment and are stationed in all

---------------------------------------------------

TH3L CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1944The Plaid
Mitzi Kitchen Plans 
Gay Social Calendar 
For Evening School
If perchance you havent already 
met Thelma (Mitzi) Kitchen some
where on the campus, you will un
doubtedly become acquainted with 
her very shortly, as Mitzi has been 
newly appointed this years Social 
Chairman.
Mitzi has attended Margaret Mor
rison and the College of Fine Arts
for the past two years, during which 
time her extra curricular activities 
have been many and varied. Last 
year she served as Publicity Chair
man on the Social Committee, intro
duced many new ideas in advertis
ing evening schools social events, 
and was also a member of the Plaid 
staff. At the Twentieth Annual In
signia Award Banquet in July, 1944, 
she received her first award.
This charming little blonde is a 
secretary at the Munhall Branch of 
the Navy Department, and from the 
reports we hear of her opinion 
of the Navy, she thoroughly en
joys her job. She is a swimming en
thusiast and can be found in Techs 
swimming pool many Wednesday 
evenings during the school term. 
Among her other interests are danc
ing, bowling, badminton, and horse
back riding.
As for her future, Mitzi is in favor 
of being a career girl, although upon 
questioning her on this subject, it 
is evident that she could be per
suaded to change her mind.
For Fun And Exercise
Visit Tech Swimming Pool
Now that Old Sols warmer rays 
have decided to bid us good-bye for 
a while and has chased most of the 
water enthusiasts indoor, we find 
that for real honest-to-goodness 
swimming enjoyment, you cant 
beat the pool here at Tech.
The pool itself is 35 feet wide and 
75 feet long. The maximum depth 
is 9 feet and the shallow end is 3 
feet. There is a high diving board 
for those who would like to practice 
their diving, and the conditions of 
the water is seething with which 
the most critical water dog 
couldnt find fault.
The one thing thats puzzling is 
the fact that so few evening stu
dents take advantage of all these 
fine swimming facilities. Since we
The Plaid
Editor 
Joseph M. Rymar
New Editor 
Mary de Maria Associate Editors Ruth McGraw Arlene McMurray 
Page edited by Evening School Stndents of Carnegie Institute of Technology. All views o* opinions expressed in editorial coinmn are not necessarily endorsed by the Editorial Board of 
the Day School Staff.
Staff
Olive Baumgardner Elaine MartinFlorence Chorba Frank MihelichVirginia Ehni Dorothy PapaThelma Kitchen Milton RyanIrene Koemer Dorothy Shield
8. W. Marcinizyn Lois Schultz
The Plaid has attained fame! A 
handsome English sailor, Nicholas 
Murphy, showed up at our Election 
Party, October 14th. Upon being 
tackled by a news-seeking reporter 
for comments, he only replied, I 
had a wonderful time here tonight. 
Glad to have you Nick. Good luck 
and Bon Voyage  Noticed Betty 
Conley has been appointed to active 
duty on the Publications Committee 
 The Carnegie Inn . . . where 
friends meet and greet! Meet me 
at the Inn has become quite com
mon lately!  Where were all those 
babes who promised to show up at 
the swimming party last week? 
Cmon kids! Get in the splash!  
The blessed event has arrived. Joe 
Rymar is the proud father of a 
baby girl who arrived recently 
whose name is Nancy Jane. This is 
the second time a girl has been in
troduced into his happy abode. Con
gratulations Joe  Oh death, where 
is thy sting! Why didnt Mrs. Mowatts Psychology class have that 
quiz this week? Now Ches will live 
in torture until next week  Quite 
a few co-eds appeared at the Tech 
production of The Old Maid. Oh, 
were a critical bunch. One stu
dent remarked that it was well put 
over and marvelled at the beauti
ful scenery, etc. All in all, it was a 
right nice play.
Study Room Is Now Open
Room 130 in Industries Hall is 
now open and ready for all evening 
school students from 6:00 to 11:00 
p. m.
Evening Student Council asked 
that such a place be made availa
ble for those who wish to study or 
wait for rides home. The room is 
comfortably furnished with a sofa, 
reading lamps, several study tables, 
and chairs.
We guarantee that it is not like 
Room 110  come and see for 
yourself that our Room 130 has a 
purpose!
all need exercise now a days  
here we have a chance to combine 
exercise and fun, and since its free, 
theres no reason why the pool 
shouldnt be filled to capacity each 
Wednesday evening.
Mr. Moses, the genial guard at 
the pool, even promises to teach 
some of the fundamental strokes to 
those who cant swim. So, come on, 
evening students! Make this Wed
nesday evening from 7 to 10, A Date 
For Swimming.
Student Directory
The Student Directory is now on 
sale at the Bookstore for 25c.
Varsity Swimming 
Varsity swimming practice be
gins on October 30. All boys inter
ested in becoming managers or 
swimmers should report to the gym 
at five in the afternoon on October 
30.
Eight Years Ago
Scabbard and Blade society pre
sents annual Military Ball with 
Reggie Childs and his NBC Orches
tra furnishing the music.
Carnegie students favor Landon 
over Roosevelt in presidential elec
tion by a vote of 518 to 483.
Womens Guild Tag Day nets $84
Carnegie Tech to contribute $6,000 
to Community Fund campaign 
which opens November 12.
Joseph F. Thomas, Richard Burke, 
John K. Sheer, and Robert Aaron 
are Tartan representatives to the 
meeting of college editors held at 
the University of Louisville.
Norman Thomas, Socialist party 
presidential nominee scores weak
nesses in liberty on the campus. He 
states that a very large minority of 
college students are opposed to war.
Through the efforts of Margaret 
Morrison Senate officers, a study 
room is opened for the use of all 
Carnegie girls.
Photography editor is new posi
tion created on the Tartan staff.
In big game at Holy Cross, Tartan 
Gridders are defeated 7-0 in the 
last nine minutes of the game. Al
though Carnegie outfought and out
played the Crusaders they were 
beaten by the ancient statue of 
liberty play. Team gets ready for 
game against strong Purdue Boiler
makers. Freshmen from West Vir
ginia defeated Carnegie Tech plebes 
by a score of 18-0. These were the 
days of real Tech football teams.
Slippery Rock teachers defeat 
Carnegie Tartan soccer team 5-1.
Dr. Edith Hale Swift, noted sex 
lecturer, will speak to Carnegie 
Tech students on the many prob
lems confronting the young and in
nocent college student.
At last we have found a teacher 
whom we can thoroughly dislike 
. . . Parshall is his name . . . and 
the reason . . . the freshman girls 
flock to his class because he looks 
SO much like the Prince of Wales. 
Who can this Wally Simpson be?
Endowment fund continues 
growth . . . approximately $500,000 
has been raised towards a goal of 
$3,500,000 by 1946.
Dormitory plebe trials will be 
conducted according to regulations 
approved by Dean Tarbell.
Is Life Worth Living?, a caustic 
play on an Irish theme opens the 
theatrical season in the Little The
atre on October 28.
First issue of Carnegie Technical 
ready for release soon. Bernard 
Kelly, Senior Metallurgist, is first 
editor.
Intersorority Council sponsors an
nual non-rushing tea for all sopho
mores to open rushing season for 
girls in Margaret Morrison.
Students and faculty divided in 
opinion on whether or not to abolish 
mid-semester examinations. The 
unindustrious, fun-loving profs plus 
low-average students are lined up 
against average students and benev
olent profs.
Volley Ball
Entries for intramural volleyball 
must be in Prof. Reisdorphs office 
in the gymnasium by five oclock on 
Friday, November 3, 1944.
Thistle Pictures
The schedule for Thistle pictures 
will be changed from that scheduled 
in last weeks Tartan. Watch the 
Bulletin Boards for a notice con
cerning them.
Kai Jurgenson Leaves 
Drama Department 
For North Carolina
Last Friday, Mr. Kai Jurgensen 
left the faculty of the Tech Depart
ment of Drama to assume director
ship of the Carolina Playmakers, 
an independent group, at Chapel 
Hill, N. C.
Mr. Jurgensen came to Tech in 
August, 1943, soon after he had 
taken the Roland Holt cup for ex
cellence in play-writing. During his 
thirteen month stay, he taught a 
variety of subjects in the drama 
school, and became a familiar sight 
to all dramats in his horn-rimmed 
glasses and corduroy coats.
North Carolina will not be new 
territory to Mr. Jurgensen. He 
obtained his M. A. Degree in 1943 
and spent some short time with the 
Playmakers. It was at this time that 
he wrote five plays on Danish life, 
and took the Holt award. Mr. Jurgensens famous dramatic family 
and wide readings, have also earn
ed for him the reputation of being 
an outstanding Shakespearian.
Mr. Jurgensen is a serious young 
man who wears a friendly smile 
which crinkles his whole face and 
punctuates his conversation. Be
cause he intends to be a great play
wright, he started a collection oT 
pipes so that he could get a proper 
playwright picture taken of himself 
with a pipe.
Mr. Jurgensen has left behind an 
atmosphere of friendly co-operation 
and assistance which will be diffi
cult to replace.
Close, Convenient to 
Tech Campus
TECH 
BARBER SHOP
422 SOUTH CRAIG ST.
Corner of Craig and Forbes
INFORMALDANCING
Every 
Saturday Night
Joey Sims 
Orchestra
85c per person
plus tax
RODGERS
DAIRY STORES
MILK SHAKES
Made from Pure Whole Milk for 
only 15c
We Do Not Use Skim Milk.
NEAREST STORES LOCATED
------AT------
3905 FORBES STREET
Near Bouquet Street
4619 CENTER AVENUE 
Near Craig Street
