The Carneg ie Tartan
VoL-38. Wo 9____________________; CARHEGIE.INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTBBPBQH, PA._________ TUESDAY, NOTEHBEX 3,1942
Stephen .Vincent Benet, well- Student Symphony Orchestra of
known- Ainencan poet^andnovelist, | ^ 1 Carnegie Tech, under the direction
Author's Night, which will be held I , wg. ^8 I
at16fl:15 P.e.M. PittsbLrghs^Book ^ j Sunday in Carnegie Music Hidl at
Fair will be celebrated'at ^he Gar- I Ijk ;. 8:15 P. M. Members of the orehestnegie Library in Oakland with a tra are music students for the r&ost
authors. /Bpth features will be free x from oier^coUeges on^^cnpu^^ao
VI. to 9 P. M. today, tomorrow SjjjP^ J** ^ .. merit 'their participation in the- orThursday, and Friday and from 9 flr JjnjjfT. * ganization.
A Mh0 6 PHhn ftUrda3:;BGT K m$ 0 ^vl t| J fechs Student ^ Sympjiony was
his novel, The Beginning f Wis- f ' c  structors play the first paxte iii the
dom, which was published after the r orchestra; but this was given hp
first World^War He next received g* n /* shortly .afterwards, for it vas de
poem, which is a complete book, r ep^ence ^TeclT^urique^in tiiii
Mr. Benet is concentrating on short |& ^ ^ ^ ^ practice, for many school, still feve
stories, and within the last six .  fu.jt ,0*- ^ teachers in the first chairs5 of their
months all his published tales have i orchestras.
been collected in two volumes.  V Primai-v numnop of thf* TniiVicalOther celebrities helping to ob- MlS8 Betty B^ow^ ***T of the Ke-Capadea. appeared at the pep ratty on Friday fnmary purpo . :e   serve Authors Niffht are* Carl niflt and also with the Ktie Band-between halves, at the Pitt game through the group is : to give concerts and to acFell on Alabama, Captain John  ______________  ^  --/    partpient vena are requwpa. to.play.
Craige, author of Whet the Citizen . Th T I* concertos with the orchestra before
Should Know About the Marines, UOrWC FlD? llUOrmS tamDUS their graduation.
and Stefan Heym, who is a refugee ,J,  *    -w Program for this Sundays concert
win ^rcquiLd^d Juncf ' Of Waves Activities in Letter .
Tomorrow night, Childrens Book Dorothy Piper, who graduated Ugh? But you soon get hardened Beetfaov^^6* 5
Night opens in the Carnegie Lecture from the General Studies Depart- to it. My pride may have suffered Robert Dnunm, piano
a. , ^  ... ' . . ment of Margaret Morrison last but not my appetite. Fortunately, Chopin........................Concerto in F iiinor
and Wee GUlS wiU be the Apr,., is now an Officer Candidate the food is pretty good, but I hintI
main speaker. Free ticket may be for the WAVES. The following let- ^ Te'ch ^ " Tc^sS .^.^ny 5
secured at the Carnegie Library and ter to Mrs. Jessie Yon presents an P P  pickets of admittance may be seits branches. The Book Show dis- interesting first-hand report of her U lf r f  VoL U cured today from Miss Lawton inplays, sent by fifty of the nation's nove[ expBeriences  , new member ^ere have h^.en y fin butilo ^ ^ Room
leading publishers, will be exhibited ** Mair0 miss tue om iammar iaces. i meant
every night. Open House will be of the United States Navy. to stop on campus for an afternoon ..
held in all departments of Carnegie U. S. Naval Training School before leaving Pittsburgh, but I had .Parisian Dance Closes
Library, including printing and Sm.th cllege abut tw0 hours between leaving Dorili Social Seasonhook-binding on Friday and Sat- Northampton, Massachusetts the office and catching a train, so I JL'orIU 3UU,U reason
urday nights October 12, 1942 didn't do much of anything. The All Dorm Dance scheduled
Dear Mrs. Yon, Please remember that the civil- for November 7 is strictly  hshnnpm rn8l tA llirlf I can hardly believe that I'm up ians duty is to keep up the morale hush affair; however, the following
Remit P R Prniiosnl here and the first week is over. Oc- of the Army and Navy and the best meager details were pried from atieceill 1  11* 1 roposai T__t way to do that is to send them mail, very reticent dance committee.
Recently the Dorm Council made -yJfLe^when I came to see you. ** them swea1ers and bake cook- Couples will dance from nine units bid for representation in the Stu- ,a , . ics. Now I can knit my own sweat- one ^ a pangian cabaret setting
dent Council, if that body becomes It fems st,ra"g..t1 a ^a nf  ers, and we eat aU the time any- t0 the tuIles of Tommy Whitelysthe dominant council on campus, school agam but with a sea oi en- way s0 any more cookies would ]ust West Virginia Steelers. Tn decoThe general feeling is that dorm relv unfamiliar faces ^d names^ make me fatter, but I would hate torations will be of an entirely differ-men do not want to be ruled by fra- GeUingacqMmteduphereisquite be reduced to writing lettersto my- ent nature than any others ever 
ternities, and that is exactly what different from meeting ,peoplet ^ 1 you ^ terribly busy used beforei md wm be planned to
would happen should Student Coun- Tech. No Big and L ttle bister lea y0Urself, but you might suggest to make the dance a long remembered
cil lake over now. no Freshman Reception, no sorority the Movtar Boards that they make
Along with its decision to attempt rushing You learn thie names m writing to the WAVES one of their V;.^. ^ u' hel(1 - ^
f^SenT^lnTanTrn^mg ^ut^theTetter ^the Mea.
-
tional Representation system pro- ee,mg I'm not .Ut fussy^niread and an- ^ dallre 3 to be a dimax to theposed m last wiek's Tartan, and, at longing neie. swer mail from ANYBODY.
the same time, threw its hat in the The first fewdays wewere here jt's flve minutes to ten. Taps in semester For the last few weeks, 
polticial ring. A committee of one there was a universal sighing over less time it takes t0 address an these activities have consisted^*
SS-355S CT?*inde^ndeni groups OTtmpus, par- til the first time they put on low- Sincerely. u^er ^the superviaon o{ the Dorm
ticulwiy Citom cLT heeled black oxfords and lisi hose. Ponie Piper. &WcUajrtiol?.

---------------------------------------------------

The CarneCgr TaiTagtTUESDAY. NOVEMBER 3.1942
Scientific Representation
Is This Democracy?
  Nodemocraticgovemment should be set so definitely that it cannot be
changed to a form -that is considered still more democratic. Before stu
dent council is a pian for replacing our -present method of election with that 
of proportional representation. We believe it to be much more democratic 
than the plan now used since it will elect a council that is representative 
of the .voters. ' ^
In ancient Greece a simple majority rule was true democracy. That 
held as long as the citizens voted directly for all the issues. Today at Tech, 
however, we elect representatives by a simple majority; the council thus 
elected can then pass laws by majority vote.-1 This council does not rep
resent the student body, but only the majority vote of the student body. 
Consequently, issues can be passed by council members representing less 
than fifty-one per cent of the voting students, and even as low as 26 per 
cent of the voters.
Minority Protection
If we had a two party system at Tech, the minority would be given a 
fair hearing because it would represent a definite threat to the party in 
power. At Tech, however, no two party system is capable of existence. The 
fraternity combine is very powerful, and the independent organizations are 
barely able to perpetuate themselves, much less swing elections. Under the 
conditions that now exist, elections are a farce, and we are being run by 
one group. We do not blame the fraternities for their position in the polit
ical scheme, for complete campus power is as much forced on them, as it is 
restricted from the minority independents. Having pointed out a means 
of helping balance the scale of representation, we see no reason why it 
should not be passed. It would give the politically disfranchised a small 
voice in the government at present, and promise the fraternities a future 
voice if ever they were outvoted.
Lets Trust Our Deity
Proportional representation is not a cure all. We do not believe that 
there is any system so perfect that once set up will solve all the problems 
that might arise. Similarly, we have no faith in any system that could 
cure the evils of non-voting. This is demonstrated by the trouble our park 
partners Pitt are having with their "ideal set up. There is a dynamism 
that should mark progressive government, a willingness to change when 
necessary; and, in addition, a steady progression toward a better form and 
practice. P. R. is not a half-baked scheme thought-up by students. It is a 
tried plan and has worked successfully when wisely used. It is a plan of 
election that is recommended by the majority of modem political science 
text books. It is a scientific method of choosing representatives; and it be
hooves us, a scientific school, to demonstrate our trust in our science and 
democracy, and vote for P. R.
PR In a' Nutshell
P. R. is a little difficult to explain in an editorial; so we advise you who 
are interested to attend the open meeting of the Tech Discussion Group 
today in 229CI. H. Student Government on the Campus is the topic, and 
the benefits of P. R. will be discussed. If enough interest is forthcoming, 
perhaps a student assembly could be used to advantage in discussing P. R. 
and other possible improvements for Techs democracy.
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the staff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
PHONE MATTLOWEB 2MO PHONE SCHEME? 4687
. kmumu won N^nanAt. r Alter Office Hours Call
National Advertising Service, inc. Editor-in-chief............ .......sc. 9070
BustaEss Manner.....................SC.9855
. Mica  Let Autu* tu mcuco______Advertising Manager................BB. 4759
Editor-in-Chief .......................................................................................Leonard ChotinerBusiness Manager................................................. ........................................Ted Nierenberg
Co-Managing Editors.............................................................................................Jack ShoreWalter Haller
Co-Copy Editors...................................................................................Stanley A. Rosecrans
Jeanne King
Staff Secretary............ ..............................................................,. Pat ElmanSports Editor.......................................................................................................Don WatkinsPersonnel Manager.... ...............  .......................................................Melvin H. SnyderAdvertising Manager.........s.............................................................Wilbur ThomasCirculation Manager...........,.........................................................Irving PalefskyStaff Artist..........................................................................................................Elliott TweryStaff Photographer................................................................................ .Edward Munyer
Business Staff:  Jerry Jacobs;Mprry- Rosecrans, Martha Wagman, S. Spangler.
Junior Editors: .Helena Aron*on,,Doreen. Barry, Walt Darby, Gerry Edelson, T. J.' Harmony, Dave Neuss, Louise Saul, Elaine Levin, Ed Goldstein.
Reporters: Geri Racusin, Konka Caplan, Ruth-Nieman, Lola Patton, AUce Softs, AlanSchneider, Aron C. Beck, Allan Golden, Marty Jacobt, BUI Kalb, Iris Kwatt.
On the Campus
Leave all notices for ON THE CAMPUS Cue For Blood Donors I in Tech. P. O. Box 40$ by Friday noon 0/ the week before publication.
Owen-Scimitar Tea Dance
First socializing of the week will be 
the heap-big combination Cwen-Seimitar 
Tea "Dance being held in Thistle Hall this 
afternoon. In this corner, wearing the 
i>ed jackets and gray skirts, the Cwens; 
and.on my right, sporting the white crewcaps, the Scimitars.
Btiff-IT-Tuff Travelers'
Apparently'not satisfied with the Fhys.
Ed. Departments toughening course, this 
group t>f Citcom hikers will hold their third hike .this Sunday aftemoocu. They 
will meet under Kaufmanns clock at 1:30 
P. M. and board a street-car for the start 
of the trek at Castle Shannon.
Council Minutes
Th meeting was called to order at 7:15 
F. M.
Absent: Messrs. Emberg, Frey, Hoppel, 
and Miss Gehretl.
COMMITTEE REPORTS 
Budget Committee
Mr. Shewitz read a letter from the Tar
tan asking for an increase of $300 in the . 
Tartan budget. The reason for this re
quest is that national advertising has de
creased, and also because the staff would 
Like to continue publishing the Tartanette. The matter was referred to the 
Treasurer.
Socioi Committee 
Mr. Spitaleri moved for the approval 
of a petition from the Women's Guild to 
change the date of their Tag Day from 
Tuesday, October 27, to Wednesday, No
vember 18.Motion -carried.
Mr. Spitaleri moved for the approval of a petition from the Owens and Scimitars 
to hold a tea dance on November 3 in Thistle Hall from lour until six oclock; 
this motion was made with the provision that arrangements can be made with the 
administration for the use of Thistle Hail.Motion carried.
Assemblies 
The next assembly will be one for 
freshman men on November 3, 1942. 
Elections
Mr. Beatty moved for the approval ol a petition to hold the elections for Engineering Senate on November 17, and for 
an all-school election on November 24.Motion carried.
Publications Committee 
Mr. Munyer moved for the acceptance 
of th revisions in the by-laws of the Stu
dent Council Constitution. A copy of the revisions is on file in the Student Council Office.
Motion carried.
CIT- Defense Committee 
Mr. Boyce reported that he had attended a meeting of the committee. He said that 
the iaculiy were co-operating very well, 
but that student co-operation is very lax. 
Permanent Decorations Committee 
Mr. Re Isa cher moved that any organiza
tion that wishes lo n the permanent 
decorations for an all-school event be charged from $30 to $50, depending upon 
the budget of the particular organization, this amount to be decided by the Budget 
Chairman, the Treasurer, and the Chair
man of the Permanent Decorations Com
mittee. Any individual organization not 
sponsoring an all-school event is to be 
charged 15 per cent of the value of the equipment, they borrow. The borrowing 
organization will be responsible for re- placing -at the cost price any material not returned as borrowed.
Motion carried.
NEW BUSINESS 
Miss Agnes Aronson asked that Tech 
participate iir-the International Student 
Service activities on November 17. Mr. Van Arsdell appointed Miss Zonge to look 
into the matter and report to Council next week.
Mr. McDonald read a proposed plan for the composition and election of Student 
Council. The plan involves a method 
known as proportional representation. Mr. Bluestein and Mr. Nierenberg an
swered questions asked by Council members in the ensuing discussion. Mr. Van 
Arsdell appointed Mr. McDonald, Mr. 
Schatz, -end Mr. Spitaleri to look Into the 
matter end report to Council at the next meeting.
Adjournment,
Re*pertfully submitted,LUCILLE ORR, 
Secretary.
Mias June Cooper points to the 1,000 
pints goal for the Tech. blood dotwr cam
paign. Pledges are still being accepted by 
Miss Cooper in Room 155A.
Gals Intramural HocKey 
W. A. A. announces an other.contest ot 
thrills, spills, and chills to be held tomorrow afternoon at 3:30 on the Cut. We 
refer, of course, to the Intramural Hockey 
game which will be played by the gals 
of Gamma Phi Sigma and thechulJin of 
Alpha Theta Sigma.
Oitcom Gals, Attention (
Betty McNair, Women's Activities Chair
man, has spotted a meeting of the Citcom 
Clan Women for tomorrow afternoon at 
4:30 in Room 114 of Maggy Murph. 
Bible Club''
Members of the Bible Club announce a 
meeting for tomorrow night at 7 o'clock 
in the Activities Room of Student Union. 
We believe that this meeting will be of 
great interest to every student on campus 
because of the guest speaker,, Rev. Bruce 
F.'Hunt. He will tell of his experiences 
during four separate Imprisonments by 
the Japanese.
Miliia/uf. SecAaU
Army . . .
Colonel Fred T. Bass, Professor of 
Military Science and Tactics, has 
just been notified by the War De
partment that students in the En
listed Reserve Corps, except Ad
vanced Corps Reserve Officer's 
Training Corps Students, may apply 
at any time for transfer to the Army 
Air Corps Enlisted Reserve. All ap
plications will be forwarded to the 
commanding general of the service 
command in which the college is lo
cated, and each applicant will be af
forded an opportunity to appear be
fore an Air Corps Cadet Examining 
Board for the required physical and 
mental examinations. If he success
fully passes these examinations, he 
will be transferred to the Army Air 
Corps Reserve. If not selected by 
the Air Corps Examining Board, he 
will continue in his status in the 
Army Enlisted Reserve Corps. 
Navy . . .
. Navy Department announces that 
the College Procurement Program, 
which appointed members of the 
Junior and Senior classes as Proba
tionary Ensigns, has been closed.
Hereafter, all college students 
will be enlisted In either class V-l, 
V-5, or V-7. It was emphasized that 
the age limit for the V-l program 
has been changed from twenty to 
twenty-six years.
Those students enlisted in the 
Navy Reserve, classes V-l, V-5, and 
V-7, are not permitted to send their 
mail free. Only men in active serv
ice are entitled to irfee postage.

---------------------------------------------------

TPEBPAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1942THZ CARNE CUE TARTAN
t7(4e <JfauA Wlufk
Household Ecs Gain Experience 
In Margaret Morrison Tearoom
By Louiia Saul
On the third floor of Margaret 
Morrison, amidst a pleasant atmo
sphere, the seniors in the Depart
ment of Household Economics learn 
the hows and why's of institutional 
management. Every Thursday from 
11:30 to 1:00, the Tearoom is open 
to the public, and it is through this 
medium that the girls majoring in 
Food and Nutrition gain practical 
experience in quantitative cookery.
The Tearoom is run on a cost 
basis so that luncheon prices are at 
a minimum. However, it is the re
sponsibility of those managing each 
meal, to so plan and so arrange it, 
that the Tearoom does not become a 
liability. At present, between six
ty and sixty-Ave people can be ac
commodated within the specified 
time if they are taken in two groups. 
Due to the fact that it has so far 
been impossible to accommodate all 
the faculty members and students 
desirous of varying their daily diet 
with an attractive and assuredly 
nutritious meal once a week, the 
managers have required that any 
one intending to come must sign up 
before Wednesday of each week so 
that plans can be made accordingly.
The Tearoom Is a non-profit proj
ect, the main purpose of which is to 
give invaluable experience to girls 
interested in large scale food man
agement. There are, however, small 
profits from time to time due to ef
ficient planning and sale of surplus 
food such as cakes, pastry, and 
tasty soups wich are quickly pur
chased by enthusiastic patrons. 
These profits are accumulated dur
ing the year and at the close of the 
term, the girls, together with their 
adviser, Mrs. Marshall, decide upon 
some item which will add utility or 
attractiveness to the Tearoom, and 
this item is purchased. In this way 
such articles as an electric grill, a
sound proof ceiling, and an electric 
fan have been secured. The House
hold Economics Department is 
proud of the enthusiasm and suc
cess with which this project has 
met, and although they cannot al
ways take care of everyone, wish 
that all the students on campus 
could be come familiar with the ex
pert work that is being carried on 
there.
Thistle Pictures ...
Sunday, November 8 
2:00 Welch Hallfront dorm.
2:20 McGill Hall-:front of dor-ra. 
2:45 Kappa Sigma activesat the 
Kappa Sigma House.
3:00 Kappa Sigma pledgesat the 
Kappa Sigma House.
3:15 Pi Tau Sigma..
3:30 Eta Kappa Nu.
3:45 Scarab.
4:00 Freshmen Orientations Com
mittee.
4:15 Intramural Board.
4:30 Debating Team.
4:45 Tri-Publications Staff.
All other pictures except those 
designated above will be taken in 
front of the Carnegie Union.
Fort Pitt is She Place 
la Beat
TYPEWRITERS
ALL
Haut Slogan Bo*t
Big Water Fight Ends 
In Kick Tuchman Yell
"Hi diddle diddle, kick Tuchman 
in the middle," and another intradorm feud pokes its head above the 
turmoil of sweat and slavery that is 
Carnegie Tech. The signs, which 
everyone has seen' by now, herald a 
new era here, in which one may get 
a piec of some divine bliss merely 
through the expedient of kicking 
Boss Halls ample prexy.
The trouble really started a cou
ple of: weeks ago when the men of 
Boss and McGill Halls started a lit
tle innocent water-throwing.
McCjill Hall, always on edge for 
excitement, organized and came 
over to duck Bosss seniors. The 
men qf Boss resented the move, and 
resisted. Several attempts were 
made to start a water-fight inside 
Boss, but they were aU squelched, 
especially through the firmness of 
Joe Tuchman, Boss president.
Resultall McGill was fined to 
the time of fifty cents a man, Dave 
Drewry, McGill prexy and frosh 
adviser for that hall being fined 
$2.00 for not stopping them. Some 
of the men didnt like the fine, and 
they blamed poor Joe for imposing 
it, as could be seen all over cam
pus. Friday morning it could also 
be seen all over Tuchmans car.
Memorial Services Held 
For Deceased Professors
Memorial services will be held m 
the College of Fine Arts theater to* 
day at 5:00 P. M. for the late Har
old Geoghegan and Edmund Marion 
Ashe, who were instructors at Tech.
Professor Geoghegan, who died - 
on September 4, 1942, taught art 
history here from 1911-1942. Pro
fessor Ashe who was with the Paint
ing and Design Department from. 
1920 to 1939, died on May 22, 1942.
President Doherty will preside at  
the services. All friends of the de
ceased are invited to attend.
ZwuUtim
The Carnegie. Tartan wishes to 
correct an error made in last weeks 
paper. The head of the Carnegie 
Tech Blood Donor Drive is Profes-; 
sor Parisi and not Mr. Davis, as was 
erroneously reported.
Beaeon Theatre
Corner Murray and Beacon
FOR FIVE DAYS
Nov. 4-B s Wed. thru Son. 
First Run in Squirrel Bill
The Talk of the Town
------AND------
MARCH OF TIME 
F.Bi FRONT
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATI&ntto 8330 
844 LIBERTY AVENUS
fan
Come to GimbePs
Apply 10th Floor at Employment
OSlice
GIMBEL BROS. DEPT. STORE
Bring your Social Security Card along when applying*
66 Be! I Se Filter 
InlsSnito
USED IN MEDICO PIPES, CIBiS, 
HMD CI6AKETIE MUMS
New YorkThe aelentiflo, absorbent filter has contributed mightily to the smoking pleasure of millions of men and women who have switched to Medico filtered Smoking. Actually, the smoke moot travel through 60 baffles before
STUDENTS!
SuitsDresses CQja
Cleaned and Pressed.. 
SlacksSweaters OCm 
Cleaned and Pressed..
Campus Cleaners
4000 Forbw Street 
We Call and Deliver

---------------------------------------------------

fffl! ArtWt* AStA
--------------
ttBST. WvMrtKt a. ita
one of the boys
Nelson Crooks
^Justincase you.dont recognize 
him- without the camera, the man in 
tfcfe- pictnre-?s Horatio Nelson 
Gr6olS:' '"Were not  kiddingthats
ffeaDyvhii name. ........
havent seen Nelson around 
ly, we can tell you whv. He is 
speeding his spare tune in the baseiHfept^ttf the Beta house where he's 
building a dark-room. Since grad
uation is ib -Di^ceinber.he is working 
frantically to get it finished.
Nelson has .taken .pictures for al
most every publication on campus. 
Neyr-sfeein without his famous carn
ead* Imfrer'-one arm, he usually car
ns-1'few samples of new print, in 
h&'back 'pocket Youll find that a 
gbo'S prchtag of those prints are 
of -38 Orr, his Beta girl*
- Speaking of L, one of Nelsons 
grte^mqineTits must have been 
\fhe h, 'as cadet captain,1 present
ed her witii the ' insignia of honorary 
cadet colonel. wonder who gives 
the -.orders ihthis colonl-captain 
combination.
PLACE TO EAT 
; OAKLAND
SILL'S LUNCH ROOM
3611 Forbes Street
.
Nelsons second pride and joy is 
the Signal Corps in which he is a 
company commander. Last Thurs
day, one of his platoons won the 
prize in the drill competition.
Always interested in campus ac
tivities, Nelson holds high positions. 
He is treasurer of Tau Beta Pi, Cap
tain. of the Varsity Soccer team, a 
member of the Y Cabinet and of Al
pha Tau Omega, past-president of 
Beta Theta Pi, and past-Editor of 
the Thistle.
This Physics senior has never 
subordinated scholarship to activi
ties. Proof of that is the fact that 
he is a. charter member of O. D. K-, 
national senior honorary. He was 
also a member of the Scimitar and 
Delta Skull Societies.
"1 never sew o fighting man who 
didnt ehertth the veiy though* of 
e pause With Coca-Co (a. 
gNt for workers in fac
tories, tod* Ice-cold Coke 
, Is'Fonjefhtng non than 
 the-drink thof answers 
c IbfariL M adds.tho feel of 
'fofrftthroenf,
- % war. Undo Sam ro..strict*: the. supply. But 
theros still enough for 
many refreshing psufts."
%o4j. KiUieA- Worn Bufrd
Colorful Band Wins New Admirers; 
Six Members Sell War Stamps, Bonds
Never in the history of Buffalo 
has a- -musical organization put on 
such a fine show at a football game/ 
Thats "what the Buffalo Press had 
to' say about our KUtie bands per
formance at the Tech-BufTalo game.
The band members worked for all 
the honors they won. They led a 
three-mile parade from band head
quarters (Hie Statler ' HoteJ) 
through the city to the municipal 
stadium. Between halves, the band 
wowed emi They came out on the 
field with the same bomber forma
tion used in the Pitt game, and end
ed the drill on a patriotic note with 
the playing of My Country Tis of 
Thee in a U.S.A. formation. So jubi
lant were they after the teams vic
tory that they covered the three 
miles back across the city in 35 min
utes flat! Tech songs went over big
gest in a half-hour concert given for 
the guests back at the hotel.
Saturday mgnt the colorful Kil
ties doffed the plaid and became 
the fellows. Some went to shows; 
some went to Niagara Falls. Fifth 
columnists Russel Hunter and Cliff 
Taylor were arrested for taking pic
tures of the waterfront. (They were 
released after the film was confiscat
ed.) Six fellows, still in their uni
forms, spent the evening in the War 
Stamp Booth of the Great Lakes 
Theater working for Uncle Sam. 
Dick Hudson, the barker for the out
fit, attracted potential war stamp 
buyers; Chris Bauer, Jerry Heatter, 
and Bob Deisler enticed them with
the :flmg ..{ga-dum, da-dum, ta da da 
da da ta-dum, KICK), and Jack 
White and Jack Thompson collected 
the dough. The six -of them sold 
$1?5.0D worth of stamps and bonds,; 
breaking all records for that booth!
The tram ride both ways was a 
whie-bang affair. On the way to 
Buffalo the plebes were given very 
special treatmentthey each had to 
bring cigars , ftp* Mr. Morrow, the 
conductor, and polishing cloths to 
shine the upperclassmens instru
ments. Going home, someone found 
that the cast of Tobacco Road was 
on the same train. The band went 
back to their car for an impromptu 
talent display. One of the girls in 
the cast sang Tangerine and The 
White Cliffs of Dover with band 
accompaniment. A rousing march 
by the band and a solo by the bag
pipers led up to the; climax of the 
evening. Vic Carlucd's wild clari
net, Don Embergs solid trombone, 
and Chris Bauers hot trumpet took 
off on Lou Levis rhythm until they 
had the 01 train itself rockin-out 
the beat Yeah, man!
Techites deserve to be proud 
when they remember; that this colcolorful spirited bunch. represents 
their school/
LOST
Wine-coloredcable otitch
SWEATER
Zipper frontLong sleeves
Leave note on M. M. C. C. 
Freshman Bulletin Board 
for 
Adeline Herlick
CHARACTER <
MELLON 
NATIONAL BANK
Seniors--Notice
ORDER 
CLASS DEGREE RINGS 
AT ONCE
Rings ordered on or before Friday, Novem
ber 27,1942, will be ready for delivery before 
Commencement, December 20, 1942.
o o
ALUMNI OFflCETHE UNION
012535940125012501012535013525250135253501250135012501012501012535353535
352501253501353525252535010135012535190135353501253525982525350135013501

---------------------------------------------------

sssFsap
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 164aTHE OABEEOIE TUTU
Panthers Down Tech Gridders 19-6 Touch Football Playoffs
T XT J I? i .  .  ,  To Be Held This WeekIn Hard r ought Homecoming Battle
Harriers Triumph Over 
Bethany, Westminster -Last weeds'football games, decided the winners of the three Last .Friday the .Tech Hamers 
Covering themselves with glory, of scoring territory* DiMatteo, the leagues. Coming out on top for the romped over .the Schenley. Park
Pitt halfback finally hit pay dirt Independents were the Zoot Suits of course to defeat Bethany 23-32 Fmfrom the Tech 6 on an off-tackle k^S116 HI-1 League II the PiKAs ishirig first was BijtBeamfer. of
.W99_ r L; , . managed to defeat the Theta Xissmash. The Panthers came back a 21.15_5to taie ^ place ^ -Phi
few minutes later to score again; Kaps of League I were defeated by
Saksa on a reverse ran over tackle the Beta Sigma Rhos, score of 35-30,
the vaunted warriors of Skibo bat
tled till the end on a muddy grid
iron; and finally bowed in defeat at 
' the claws of the Pitt Panther, in the 
homecoming clash last Saturday in 
the Stadium'. .
Inspired play of the scrappy Tar
tans, who were out-weighed 20 
pounds to a| man, held the Blue and 
Gold on even terms to the last quar
ter. Carnegies forward wall held 
like steel, stopping drive after drive 
that the Panthers threw at it. Then, 
in the final period, the defense, 
weakened by the loss of Byers, 
Jones, Lindberg, D. Burns, and 
Pantell, gave ground to the Cats 
two big drives of 61 and 44 yards.
Pitts first score came as a result 
of bad breaks. Tech made a goal 
line stand and halted the opponents 
on the eleven. After an exchange 
of punts, McLaughlin's fumble was 
snagged up by Dutton who scored 
four plays later from the Tedi six 
yard stripe.
Tech returned the kickoff sixtysix yards on passes from McLaugh
lin to Byers, Weise, and Neuman; 
the last was good for thirty-five 
yards. This drive was halted on the 
Pitt fifteen when Kyle intercepted 
the next pass. Pitt stormed back 
on ground plays to the Tech fortyfour. At this point Fritz and Lind
say were carried off the field. The 
Carnegie line charged right back; 
Purcell -blocked Dutton's pass - at
tempt, and Dcnnic Bums grabbed 
it and scampered fifty-four yards to 
score the lone Tech touchdown.
Pitt started its second scoring 
drive from its own twelve yard line 
after a brilliant sixty-one yard punt 
by Carnahan had driven them back. 
DiMatteo made fifty-one yards in 
six tries. Tech again made another 
goal line stand and stopped the 
threat on th 5, when Pash jumped 
on a fumble.
The wear of the battle was mak
ing itself felt, Tech was weakened 
by the withdrawal of six starting 
players. Pitt again charged back 
after Carnahan had kicked them out
Tech who-just edged out Nestell Of 
Bethany. Finley of Bethany finish
ed a half minute behind Nestell to
9 LC  . ,  ,  _ . _ . win third place. The other placesto the Carnegie 15, lateraled to Dut- puttmg them m the play off posa- went to Tec men Paul Rotzler took
ton on the side line, who scored un- tln; . These three teams will play- fourth followed by Ben Marcin,
molested. West kicked the point- off this week to determine the cnam- ____
after, making the score l9-6 Pion intramural football team of the
The "never-say-die" oi the Skibos se!son-, ^ ,Beta Sig maD,aSer ^ 
still fought on, and threatened to a bye for hls team "
score. Jack McLaughlin asserted 
himself as a great passer, complet
ing seven out of eleven tries for
these final 
eliminations. This means that the 
winner of the PiKA and Zoots will' 
meet the Beta Sigs in the decisive '
Puchaski, Teasdale, Kelsey, Teresi, . 
and Simon.
The Bethany meet was the second 
win of the season for th Tech boys, 
who, the week before won a close 
one  over a strong . Westminster 
Team. The freshmen are responsi
ble to a large extent, for the suc-yards before he was stopped by an ^ame' w ^
interception on the Pitt 30 yard line. ^ three teams are the pick of cess o{ the tcam Had it not begj,
Every man on the Tartan eleven the leagues as elimmation have
looked good in defeat, making it shown: It is hard to predict who
hard to point out an individual w111 be the winner. The Zoots willhave stiff competition considering 
their opposition and depending upon 
who they will play. Hofmann, tail
back and passer extraordinary for 
the PiKAs, and Brinn the super 
pass receiver of the Beta Sig*s are 
the strong men of these squads, the 
big trouble-makers. All teams will 
have to play hard heads-up ball 
Such an incident as managed the
standout.
Soccer Team Wins One 
Of First Three GamesPlaying four games in eight days, 
the Carnegie Booters ended the 
week with one win and three losses.
The Tartans topped Allegheny 1-0 
in a close contest last Tuesday to defeat of the Phi Kaps, first from 
chalk up their first win of the sea-  - 
son; however, their spirits were con
siderably dampened when they 
were taken the next day by the 
Penn Institute for the Deaf to the 
tune of a 3-2 tally.
Last Saturday our booters were 
defeated-1-0 -by ~Oberlint the - pointbeing scored in the second half by 
Hayden. A week ago Saturday the 
Skibos were downed 3-2 in a hardfought game with Geneva.
for Teasdale, Kelsey, Green, and 
Alexander, freshmen numerals;win
ners, the team might not have been 
so successful
C.S.EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0103
the Kappa Sigs and then the Beta 
Sigs, which was. over confidence 
when they sustained a lead, does not 
dare occur. It is usually fatal.
HOTEL WEBSTER 
HALL
Available For
PRIVATE PARTIES 
BANQUETS 
SWIMMING PARTIES
RODGERS
DfilBY STORES
MILK SHAKES
Hade from. Pore Whole Milk for 
only 10c
We Do Not Use Skim Milk.
NEAREST STORES LOCATED
------AT------
3605 FORBES STREET
Near Bouquet Street
4619 CENTER AVENUE
Near Craig Street
Lei's go to
ISALY'S
MILK SHAES 
BIG ICE C^MM GDfiES 
JELOMDXKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes Street, Squirrel gilT 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Bonlevard of the Ailwt .
HELP WANTED
All Day Saturdays and Monday Evenings
IF YOU ARE INTERESTED 
IN WORKING
AT KAUFMANNS
OOME TO OUR
EMPLOYMENT OFFICE ON THE 10TH FLOOR
AT YOUR CONVENIENCE 
FOE AN INTERVIEW
KAUFMANNS
FIFTH AND BJOTHFIELD
lAUmRYT-YE$!i
But Laundry Problems? NO!
Even a Freshman sooa learns how to handle' Laundry 
Problemsjust send your laundry home by Railway 
Expressand have it returned to you the same way. 
Youll find its really *^ problem at all
Low rates include pick-up and delivery at no extra charge, 
within our regular vehide limits, in all a ties and pwririp! 
(owns. Your laundry ato be sect prepaid or collect, as you 
choose. Psst! Send and receive baggage, gifts, etc die 
same convenient way.
RAILWA^feEXPRESS
AOBNCY^^^lNC.
NAT/ON-WIDE JUll-AJ* HHi

---------------------------------------------------

LAR omnggnt LHELGILTUESDAY, MOVEMBKH 3, 1M3fflxt Camelie plaid
HegistrationCard Is 
Ticket For Admission 
To 1st College Dance
v That long .awaited.mment is near 
'at hand. Whether you be from Arts, 
Industries, or Engineering, you may 
attend the first dance of the season 
at Thistle Hall simply upon pre
sentation  your registration card. 
-Vour friends may attend upon pay
ement'of an assessment of $1.10.
In an ndeavor to provide the 
campus with something definitely 
new and in the way of a band, the 
officers have been canvassing the 
district for the past three -or four 
weeks:  Although they refuse to di
vulge th name-of-tfie band at the 
present time, they definitely prom-lse a band ef superior quality whose 
; music will ib . pleasing ;to all the 
'.students.- ;
Because :pf the long delay in Ob- taming an opening for a dance, this 
..promises'to be a superb occasion. 
Decorations wills be in complete 
. harmony with the season.
The Black Cat Room Will be open 
for those desiring refreshments and 
maybe m the cozy tfiaosphere, new 
friends will be made and old sc> quamtances renewed.
Student Counil Officers have 
been working hard on plans for 
this dance, and feel , sure that they 
have something truly different to 
present to the' students.
HandbookStudente Aid
Every .year, and this being no ex
ception, students enjoy a gift from 
Student Council in the form of a 
Handbook..
This is probably the most com
plete manual published. It contains 
rates governing students on the 
campus., -along with the history of 
the institution. All the interesting 
facts and high-lights of Carnegie In
stitute of Technology are enumerat
ed.
In the past, students have fought 
for this priceless possession, but 
now now, in the interest of expedi
ency, one is vailabl at little ex
pense of energy. Simply present 
your registration card at the Regis
trars Office and you will receive 
the handbook.
Student Air Raid 
Wardens Needed
Evening School students or fac
ulty members who are qualified as 
Air Raid Wardens or who have Red 
Cross First Aid Certificates are 
needed to man the first aid and shel
ter zone stations in case of an eve
ning alert.
Volunteers are requested to leave 
a copy of their schedules with Mr. 
McKelway, the evening Registrar, 
in the Registrars Office, which is 
open from seven to nine oclock 
every evening.
The Defense courses with their 
large enrollment, and various other 
activities on campus, make it dif
ficult for the present wardens to 
handle the situation adequately dur
ing an air raid.
Last Monday sights .. surprise 
practice was just one of a series of 
alerts, most of which will be held 
in the evening. Do yqur bit for the 
War program by serving as Warden 
during these air raid practices. It 
takes only a little time and will be 
greatly appreciated.
*7e ^Ue. CdUtVt
I'm not complaining, just making 
a suggestion. Dont you think it 
would stimulate interest in the Lit
tle Theater productions if we could 
have a review club? Knowing 
what's going oh makes a play much 
more interesting for me as Im sure 
it would be for the average person. 
Evening school students are very 
enthusiastic about reviewing the 
plays, since a great many of us at
tend them. Some of the plays that 
are given are unfamiliar, and unless 
one is a dramatic student, one cant 
really enjoy them. For instance, 
last weeks production, Shaws 
"Heartbreak House, would have 
been more enjoyable for me, had I 
known what to expect. Day school 
students have had the benefit of a 
review club, why cant we? (Sign
ed) M. W.
We will give anyone who feels 
qualified the opportunity of writ
ing this review. Thanks for the 
suggestion and we promise to give 
it consideration. The Ed.
Johnny Castellano is really be
hind that ball these last two weeks 
it isnt Spring and hes not 4-F 
wonder what makes him so slaphappy . . . Chick Frost deserted us 
for day school this year but his sis
ter, Marion, is here to take over for 
himshucks, she ' doesnt have a 
bicycle and well miss those rides 
on the handlebars . . . The gals 
really took us at our word (an 
abundance of males on the staff) 
and we really have a swell turn-out 
this weekwho knows, maybe some 
romances will be born . . . Have 
you heard the latest Moron bitHe 
took his nose apart to see what 
made it runO. K. its not the lat
est but then were always weeks be
hind . . . George W. Petrie, III, is 
a Lieutenant j. g., in the Navy(we 
think its something like a junior 
commando) hes really a b-e-a-u-t-iful sight in his uniformespecially 
that one atop the Empire State 
Buildingbe still my heart! . . . 
Wedding bells will keep Steve Marcinizyn from his duties next week 
. . . Cant imagine where Ron Shoff 
is keeping himselfoh! my mistake 
hes got a ball and chain this year 
and that makes a difference . . . 
Patsy ORourke doesn't seem to no
tice a shortage of mencant see 
how she manages to get to school 
at all . . . Who wants to wager! 
the song Dreaming of a White 
Christmas will be forgotten long 
before that timetoo badbut such 
is life . . . What evening college 
president is all ga-ga about our fair 
editor? Watch your step, Al, that 
claim has already been staked.
The Carnegie Plaid
Page edited by Evening School Stu
dents of Carnegie Institute of Technology. 
All Views or opinions expressed in edi
torial column are not necessarily endorsed 
by the Editorial Board of the Day School 
staff.Editor 
. Nancy E. Lewie 
Associate Editor of Engineering 
Robert C. King 
Staff 1 
June Apel S. Marcintzyn
John Castellano D. Pettigrew. Jr.
Albert Kerstukos Pearl Peltola
Edward A. Macha Joseph M. Rymar Robert Poznanski Robert Lenlgan
James Flaherty Albert Flanders
Swimming Lessons 
Available At Pool
Most of you missed the time of 
your lives by not attending swim
ming the last five Wednesdays. Cer
tainly we all should take advantage 
of this opportunity to me::t our fel
low students and relax a bit after 
the usual hard days work.
A lot of us think we can swim, but 
really can we? Just getting across a 
pool and back isnt so wonderful; 
we should be able to swim distances 
without tiring. The swimming coach 
will gladly teach you the correct 
way to swim.
Come on, all of you students, and 
enjoy an evening at the pool; we 
guarantee that you will want to be 
there every Wednesday thereafter. 
Remember that the attendance will 
determine whether or not this sport 
v/ill be continued.
'IjOM/l GaMfuU. SMA
W00DLAWN PHARMACY
SPECIAL 
Mailing Bags...............................$1.49
. $1.49 and upAlarm Clocks
Carnegie Tech Xmas Cards, $1.00 per dozen
Five Hundred Tissues23c
Tech Stationery49c
Complete Line of
Squibb, Parke & Davis, and Abbot Vitamins
New Assortment of
Kaywoodie Pipes$3.50 to $12.00
Parker 51 Pen & Pencil Sets, $17.50 and up
