fThe Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 38 No. 26CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, AUGUST 8, 1944
Aisenberg, Fleck Win 
Tennis Tournament
Aisenberg Wins Singles, 
Pair Wins Doubles Match
Last Sunday Irwin Aisenberg 
won the tennis singles champion
ship by sweeping two straight sets 
from Dave Fleck 6-2, 6-0. Aisen
berg made it a perfect day by also 
winning the doubles championship 
with Dave Fleck as his partner. 
They defeated Scherb and Slone in 
two straight sets 6-2, 6-2. Fleck was 
completely outclassed in the singles 
championship by his doubles part
ner, Aisenberg. The match was 
Aisenbergs the whole way through.
In the first round of the singles 
division Jones won from Murray by 
a default and Fleck defeated King 
6-2. In the match between Fleck 
and Jones, Dave Fleck was the vic
tor by the score of 6-3 putting him 
in the finals. In the lower half 
Scherb defeated Bartley 6-2 and 
Aisenberg took over Friedman 6-1. 
Since the match between Eschenbach and Cavender wasnt played, 
Scherb won his game in the second 
round by virtue of a default. In 
the semi-finals Irwin Aisenberg de
feated Bill Scherb in the closest 
game of the tournament 7-5. This 
placed Aisenberg versus Fleck in 
the finals and as you know, Aisen
berg won.
In the first round of the doubles 
division Aisenberg and Fleck de
feated King and Eschenbach in a 
close match 6-4. Since the combina
tion of Fekete and Cavender drop
ped from competition, Scherb and 
Slone automatically advanced to 
the finals against Aisenberg and 
Fleck. The tournament was well 
planned and played throughout, and 
the competition was keen among all 
the contestants.
Betas Are Top Team 
In Softball League
The second half softball league 
games are now officially under way. 
The Beta Theta Pis jumped into an 
early lead by winning their first 
two games. In their first game they 
defeated the Bears by the score 
of 7-2. The Betas took an early lead 
and held it throughout the game. 
In their second game the Betas de
feated the Delts 4-1 behind the ex
cellent pitching of Wendell Minor. 
The only other undefeated team is 
the Theta Xis. In a sloppily played 
game by both teams, they beat the 
Delts 7-5. It was a see-saw battle 
with both teams ahead at various 
times in the game.
Notice
The business manager of the Tar
tan will pay 15 cents per copy or 
$1.00 for six of the following issues 
of the Tartan:
April 13, 1943
November 23, 1943
December 1, 1943
May 23, 1944
Address the issues to the Tartan 
and leave in post office with your 
name and address.
Womens Clan Plans 
Entertainment For 
Senior Secretarials
The thirty-five expedited senior 
secretarials are to be entertained 
August 13 in the Carnegie Union by 
the Pittsburgh Womens Clan. Each 
graduating student in the August 
Class will oe escorted to the Union 
by an active member of the Clan, 
and given the opportunity to attend 
the various parties and functions 
that her escort has planned after 
the 13th.
Last fall a party for the graduat
ing girls from Margaret Morrison 
and the College of Fine Arts was 
held in the same manner; but, be
cause of the revised summer semes
ters, the students to be graduated 
this August were not eligible. Miss 
Talmadge suggested that the forth
coming picnic be given so that these 
thirty-five girls would not miss the 
opportunity to get acquainted with 
the active members of the Clan, a 
Margaret Morrison and College of 
Fine Arts Womens Organization.
The members of the committee 
in charge of the picnic are: Ella 
Schilling, Cora E. Wright, Kath
erine Shuman, Virginia S. Gilles
pie, Helen Smith, Barbara Burns, 
Helen Steel, Mrs. Charles Watkins, 
Betty Moore, Mary Ella Graham, 
Eleanor Lloyd, Margaret Sullivan, 
Sara Berg, and Vera Daugherty and 
Mrs. Frances Beal.
The secretarial faculty has been 
invited.
Professor Cleeton Announces 
Changes in Social Rel. Dept.
The first of this month, Professor Glen U. Cleeton assumed the position 
of Director of the Humanistic and Social Studies Department. In this 
department are included the Economics, English, History, Mathematics, 
Physiology, and Social Relations courses. These are service courses, 
necessary in a degree curriculum, but in which no degrees are granted. 
Professor Cleeton will be director of the department, but will not occupy 
the Maurice Faulk chair in Social Relations. Professor Elliott W. Smith, 
formerly of Yale, will be in charge of the Social Relations program. This 
separation of the two positions represents a change in the department in 
order that each man may devote more time to his own job.
0 . n/r  o i During the summer, revisions ofSenior Music Student 
Awarded Fellowship
Janet Stang, a music student here, 
has been awarded a honorary fel
lowship again this summer to study 
piano at the Julliard School of Music 
in Chatauqua.
Janet, who will be a senior this 
fall there, has won three consecu
tive fellowships during her three 
years here. The first was the high
est award presented by the Chatau
qua schoolthe Juilliard Fellokship 
which can only be won once by any 
student. The following summer 
Janet won the next highest honor 
called the Wendell Dievel Personal 
Scholarship. This summer Janet 
has been granted her third fellow
ship upon the basis of her past hon
ors there. It is a personal fellow
ship award by Ernest Hutcheson.
Janet, who is a four point factor 
student here and who has studied 
piano privately for many years, is 
majoring in organ.
Ex-Carnegie Students Christeno
Combination Studio And Gallery
Saturday, July 9th saw four exand one non-ex-Carnegie Institute 
of Technology students christen 
their combined gallery and studio 
The Studio of the Five. This is the 
first attempt at collective security 
in the arts the City of Pittsburgh 
has ever known.
The five, Marion Graper, Patricia 
Gormley, Henry Burstynowicz, Ir
win Kalla, and Marjorie Mapel, 
were enrolled in Professor Joseph
B. Ellis summer sculpture course, 
which is sponsored by Summer 
Santas who donate $25 to provide 
tuition for a six week summer 
course at Carnegie for high school 
students who show talent in sculp
ture. It was in his class that they 
met and naturally fell together as 
a group. Their interests were sim
ilar, not only in sculpture, but in 
painting, stage design, modern and 
experimental music.
Annually they traveled to New 
York to -meet and interview practic
ally every important modern sculp
tor in the field, which greatly aided 
them in their work.
Marion Graper has twice won 
prizes for sculpture, one of them the 
Craig Award for Creative Sculpture 
when she was just a sophomore. 
She now works at the Caravan 
School for Teacher Arts designing 
stage sets and making puppets and
the books used in the freshman and 
sophomore books have been under 
way. Professor Stuart Chapman has 
been in charge of the revision of the 
freshman book while Professor Rus
sell Bowers has supervised the 
work on the new sophomore book.
According to estimates by Presi
dent Doherty and members of the 
department, approximately 70% of 
-the goals originally set up for the 
program have been reached. These 
goals as stated in the Journal of En
gineering Education are as follows:
masks. .
Patricia Gormley, who also won 
the Craig Award for Creative 
Sculpture, formerly worked at 
Kaufmanns making papier-mache 
masks for window displays, and 
now teaches a modeling class on 
Wednesday evenings. She is writ
ing a humorous book of memoirs in 
the manner of Our Hearts Were 
Young and Gay.
Marjorie Mapel, oldest member 
of the group, is a microphotogra
pher testing the molecular strength 
of metals for the Allegheny Ludlum Corporation at Tarentum. She 
comes to Pittsburgh on weekends.
Henry Burstynowicz has a de
fense job at Gardners Display Co., 
and Kalla is thinking of devoting 
his full time to sculpture.
Their quarters, which was for
merly occupied by the Kopper Ket
tle required many weeks of scrap
ing signs off the walls, ridding the 
place of fleas and rats, ridding the 
walls of grease and throwing away 
old garbage and sour milk. Now 
their quarters, which are located 
across from the Ford Motor Co., at 
280 Morewood Avenue, are delight
fully furnished with articles made 
from card board tubing, old lamp 
frames, discarded automobile seats, 
and a butter tub. The entire proj
ect cost them $95.92.
1. Understanding of the evolution 
of the social organization within 
which we live and of the influence 
of science and engineering on its 
development.
2. Ability to recognize and to 
make a critical analysis of a prob
lem involving social and economic 
elements, to arrive at an intelligent 
opinion about it, and read with dis
crimination and purpose toward 
these ends.
3. Ability to organize thoughts 
logically and to express them lucid
ly and convincingly in oral and 
written English.
4. Acquaintance with some of the 
great masterpieces of literature and 
an understanding of their setting in 
and influence on civilization.
5. Development of moral, ethical, 
and social concepts essential to a 
satisfying personal philosophy, to a 
career consistent with the public 
welfare, and to a sound professional 
attitude.
6. Attainment of an interest and 
pleasure in these pursuits and thus 
of an inspiration to continued study.

---------------------------------------------------

2THL CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, AUGUST 8, 1944 4
ZditosuL A'uncltcU'i
Begin Reform Now, A.C.A.C.
In our recent articles discussing the possible reincarnation of the 
Army-Civilian Activities Council we mentioned repeatedly the urgent need 
for a thorough revision of our old election rules which enabled an organized 
minority to impose their candidates upon and dictate their wishes to the 
rest of the student body. Unfortunately this practice has become deeply 
rooted on the Carnegie Tech campus, and therefore no single action or 
set of actions by A. C. A. C. can constitute a panacea for this evil. The 
necessary reform should be achieved by a long-range program of legisla
tion and reeducation, and we maintain that it is high time to start now.
The fraternity combine has been made possible by two factors, both 
of which can and should be eliminated. The first is a condition which not 
only prevails on this or any other college campus, but even in the nation 
as a whole: the appalling disinterest of the majority in the actions and 
functions of their government. In all communities and organizations, 
with the possible exception of military dictatorships, a well-informed and 
interested majority can always successfully prevent a minority domina
tion. In this society of ours, so undeniably egocentrical, one cannot blame 
a group for taking as much as they can get, one should rather denounce 
the others for letting them take it. The fraternity combine could never 
have existed if the great masses of independent students had been aware 
of the political events on campus. A. C. A. C.s primary aim, therefore, 
should be to instill in the student body a consciousness of and interest in 
their government, so that in future elections everyone will go to the polls 
keenly aware of his responsibility and of the importance of a good 
Student Council.
This, however, cannot be accomplished unless the second factor which 
today prevents a good student government is eliminated. For several 
years now our council has ceased to be a policy-making organization, be
coming instead a machine, mechanically approving the minutes of the 
Publications Committee and the Intramural Board, and executing the nec
essary preparations for more or less routine dances. The qualifications for 
a member of the government became rapidly non-existant, and conse
quently, confronted with the choice between Tweedledum and Tweedledee, 
a student would naturally vote for his friend or fraternity brother. This 
too has to change. The candidates for a position on A. C. A. C. or the Stu
dent Council should be forced, by legislation as well as by the public in
terest which, as we just pointed out, has to be aroused, to state a definite 
platform of reforms which they, if elected, would introduce. No one can 
deny that there is, and always will be, a lot of room for such improve
ments in the various phases of campus life. On the basis of such a plat
form a candidate could then be judged by his personal qualifications and 
not by his fraternal affiliations.
In addition to such an injection of policies into elections, our gov
ernment could be further improved by the reestablishment of a party 
system. As we are working on the hypothesis that the fraternity com
bine can and will be eliminated, the parties of the future would not have 
to be divided again on pro-and anti-fraternity issues. Instead, we could 
have a party for those students primarily interested in athletics, another 
for the socialites, or if this subdivision would not be satisfactory, an
other could rather easily be found. A candidate would then run on the 
combination of a party platform and individual promises which would 
insure election because of qualifications rather than popularity.
We repeat that reforms of such scope cannot be achieved over night. 
However, they can quite conceivably be accomplished over a period of 
time, and A. C. A. C. should start on it at the very beginning of next se
mester. E. A. L.
One of the Girls
True Confessions by Our Gal Sal99
Letter To The Editor
We found this under a coke bottle in the Tartan office, and we would 
very much like to meet the author as a candidate for future editorship. 
Dear Editor:
The recent editorials could be easily understood by the general public. This must stop! It is not up to the usual high standards of the Carnegie 
Tartan. In the future, it is hoped that the traditional policy will be con
tinued, that is:
1) To spread confusion.
2) No one but the editor himself must be able to understand the 
editorials.
3) Jokes must be of higher calibre.
4) Minor issues must be played up to a high degree.
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of 'the staff: in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Carnegie Institute ef Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. 
rBONB MATT LOW cm NN _______________________________________________PHONE SCHtNtET
VVVol.3 ro o8lN3o82 6CAVlN66R ? After Office Hours CallNational Advertising Service, Inc. Editor-in-chief .....................EVG 424
College Publishers Representative420 Madison avi. nw ymk. fT y. Business Manager.......................EM. 9424
 Bosroa  Lot AM(Ui  The FBAacnce
Entered as matter la the Pittabargh Past Oflce onder the Act af March 8, 1*7#.PtklisM weekly daring school year, except holidays and examination periods. Subscription Price SI.10 per year.
Editor-in-chief ......................................................................................... Ernie Lowenstein
Military Editor.............................................................................Pfc. Harvey W. Sherman
Business Manager ............................................................................................. Ed Friedman
My ideal man? A vagabond.
My chief worry? Im always 
broke.
My ambition? To play a bass 
fiddle.
With these frank responses Sally 
Bloom disclosed her innermost sec
rets (well some of them) as a final 
confession before leaving Tech for 
the big bad world on August 27. 
Sally, an attractive, brown haired, 
hazel eyed senior secretarial, is only 
2V2 weeks away from graduation; 
and her only comment on leaving is 
In a way Im glad. schools over, 
because I want to take a crack at a 
job.
What Ill miss at Tech more than 
anything else,  she continued, are 
the friends that Ive made here. 
What Ill miss least are 8:00 classes. 
I always came to them late any
how, and the secretarial department 
can bear me out on that.
Tech will miss Sally when she 
goes, for she has had an illustrious 
career as a daughter of Skibo. The 
various offices which she has held 
include president of the Secretarial 
club, member of the Mortar Board, 
Dorm Council, treasurer of the 
Cwens  What a job, She com
ments, and adds, Im afraid to men
tion this onesecretary of ACAC.
Her plans for the future are all 
madealmost. After a glorious va
cation, she plans to go to New 
York to see what I can find. She 
would like to go into aviation, pre
ferably as an airline hostess; and 
well she may, since shes right on 
the line, as to height, at five foot 
five.
To continue with Sallys confes
sion, her ambition includes, in ad
dition to the bull fiddle part, a great 
desire to fly, and to have, sometime 
in her life an honest day. This 
would be a day, when she could tell 
people just what she thinks, and do 
just what she wants. Sounds good, 
no?
In continuing the explanation of 
her ideal man, she states, he must 
definitely be the adventurous type 
one who doesnt want to settle. 
He should be tall and dark and 
just to show that she doesnt want 
the impossible she added, he can 
have a funny nose.
Let's go to
ISALY'S
MILK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM CONES
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Bonlevard of the Allies
I love to dance, she remarked, 
also revealing that all kinds of 
music please her, although for 
dancing she prefers a slow piece 
once in a whileanyway, not jitter
bug. She likes some classical music, 
even though shes not sure she un
derstands it. (?).
The only thing of which Sally is 
not sure is her favorite pastime.
It varies, she observed, It de
pends on my mood. Sometimes Ill 
do one thing, and sometimes, some
thing else. I ride and swim a little 
bit, though I never took sports seri
ously. I believe Ill concentrate on 
golf. (?) (?)
Her favorite food (silly girl) is 
steak, french fried potatoes, and ice 
cream. Good American food, she 
noted.
Sallys favorite subjects at school 
were English, and strange as it 
may seem, Soc. Rel., she comment
ed.
As fitting climax to her True 
Confession, Sally revealed her 
most embarrassing experience. It 
happened long ago when she was 
a freshman during Christmas va
cation. A very formal charity 
dance recorded the scene.
It was snowing and she was in 
the front seat of a convertible, on 
the wrong side to step out under 
the canopy in front of the hotel. 
Being a bold girl she braved the ele
ments, stepped out and satright in 
the middle of the street. All the 
people stared and she smiled back.
I was afraid my gown would 
stretch, Sally explained, but it 
didntit shrunk. With such con
fidence, vitality, and pleasing per
sonality, Sally should go far. Well 
hear more of Sally Bloom.
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St HA. 0193
Fort Pitt Is the Place 
to Rent
TYPEWRITERS
ALL
MAKES
$3.00 per 
Month
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
