Tartan Invades 
The Home Of The Brains 
See Story - Page 2darncgttartan
Lt. Col. James Massey 
Speaks on Wartime Manpower 
11:30, May 18, Little Theatre
VOL. 41No. 22CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, MAY 11, 1948
Walter Ambrose
Ambrose New 
T echnical Head
Last Issue Will Be 
On Sale May 19 and 20
Walter J. Ambrose has been 
elected editor of the 1948-1949 
Carnegie Technical. He has served 
for the past two years as manag
ing editor of the Technical. Am
brose is also a past president of 
the Phi Kappa fraternity.
Also elected to the executive 
board are David Sapper, business 
manager; Patrick McCurdy, man
aging editor; David Lide, features 
editor; and Donald Koenig, pub
licity manager.
Members of the editorial board, 
in addition to the executive board, 
include Harry Silverman, layout 
editor; Charles Koester, advertis
ing manager; Thomas Hall, circu
lation manager; Philip Pearlstein, 
art editor; Robert McKelvey, 
flexible copy editor, and David 
Royse, fixed copy editor.
The May issue, last to be pro
duced by this years staff, headed 
by Robert Siegel, will go on sale 
May 19 and 20. Its theme is Plan
ning the Modern City.
Edward Sullams feature article, 
Streamlined Cities, reviews the 
entire subject from the architects 
point of view. Vernon Neuberts 
Designs in Concrete describes 
the planning of a large structure 
from a generalized- viewpoint.
Reed Stops 
His Silver 
Key Award
Protests Lesser 
Award Approval; 
Keys Attacked
By Burton Epstein
After working six semesters to 
get on Council and then working 
on Council for three semester 
I would consider it a slap in the 
face to be awarded a silver key. 
Therefore, I would like to have 
my name removed from the list 
of key awards.
With this angry remark,' hurl
ed back at a Council whch only 
a few minutes before had voted 
itself silver keys instead of the 
traditional gold and gold-jeweled 
keys, Negley Reed rejected his 
award. Martin Gustavson and 
Jack Seward supported Reeds 
stand by making similar rejec
tions.
Their decisions marked the 
opening of what promises to be 
a bitter and prolonged battle in 
Council over the entire key 
awards system.
This queston of key awards pol
icy is not altogether new. Basic
ally, the problem is whether par
ticipation in an activity deserves 
special recognition and, if so, how 
such recognition should be given. 
It is a problem which faces all 
college campuses and has been 
soTvecF by many, including Car
negie, by key awards.
Recently, however, the cost of [Continued on page 6]
Spring Carnival Celebration 
To Begin Friday Morning
Nancy Reed, Skitch Hendersons Vocalist, and Elliot Lawrence
Tartan Notice
For the May 18 issue: all staff 
members not specifically con
tacted are relieved of Friday 
night duty at the office.All 
other operations of the paper 
will proceed as usual. Stories 
will be assigned in the normal 
manner, and reporters are re
quested to leave them at the 
office by 7:30 p. m., Friday, in 
order to relieve pressure on the 
one man staff.
The Ladys At Work 
Opens At Music Hall
The Ladys at Work, the mu
sical revue of the Scotch and Soda 
club, will make its debut this 
evening before an audience of 
over 2000 first nighters in Car
negie Music hall. The show will 
have four performances.
The Ladys at Work is an 
original musical by George Wood, 
directed by Lawrence Carra, with 
costumes by Alfred Lehman, set
tings by James Trittipo, with ad
ditional dialogue by David Crantz. 
Richard Hoch is musical director.
There are still a few seats 
available for the Wednesday night 
performance at $2.80, $2.40, and 
$1.80, and a number of tickets 
left for the Thursday matinee at 
$1.30.
Critics from both Pittsburgh and 
New York will review this years 
Scotch and Soda show.
Spring Concert Given 
By Men9s Glee Club
Mens Group Sings In Carnegie Hall; 
Varied Selection Will Be Featured
The Carnegie Tech Mens Glee clu'o will present its annual spring 
concert on Wednesday, May 26 in Carnegie Music hall. Tickets for 
the affair are priced at $1 each, and may be purchased from any Glee 
club member, or in Skibo during lunch nours.
The program will open with Now Let Every Tongue Adore 
Thee, Give Ear Unto My Prayer, and Psalm 150, a group of
^three secular songs. Following a 
piano solo by Bruce Barrow, Glee 
club accompanist, the group will 
sing The Galway Piper,' Rus
sian Collegiate Drinking Song, 
and The Campbells Are Coming. 
Chuck Tritle, manager of the 
club, will sing two solos, and then 
the club will present Didnt My 
Lord Deliver Daniel, Joshua Fit 
de Battle ob Jericho, and Steal 
Away.
The selections of the Highland
er quartet will be Shine, Ken
tucky Babe, and Rigoletto. The 
Glee clubs final selections will be 
Marching Along on the High
road, Broken Melody, Waters 
Ripple and Flow, and the Alma 
Mater.
Besides this two-hour program 
on May 26, the Glee club has sev
eral engagements. It will be heard 
during a portion of the Coronation 
ceremonies Friday at Spring Car
nival. On May 20, the group will 
join in a combined sing and dance 
with the PCW choral group at 
Pennsylvania College for Women.
On May 23, they will sing over 
radio station WEDO on a Sunday 
afternoon program, and on June 3. Chuck Tritle and Gerald Stovin, win present a concert in GreensLadys at Work comedy team, burg for the Lions* club.
Tartan Staff 
Promotions 
Announced
Tartan non-editorial board pro
motions were made at the May 4 
meeting of the Editorial board.
Promoted to the level of chief re
porter were Wm. Dorn and Joseph 
Weinreich. Dorn, a physics fresh
man and a member of Pi Kappa 
Alpha, was made chief sports re
porter. Weinreich, a management 
freshman, was promoted from re
porter to a chief reporter in the 
news section.
Copy staff promotions went to 
Myra Jane Barry, Jack Braun, 
and Magdalene Petrick. Miss Bar
ry, a Margaret Morrison junior, is 
currently pledged to Kappa Kappa 
Gamma sorority and has just com
pleted a term as associate editor 
of the Thistle. She was promoted 
to the position of headline editor. 
Braun, a printing sopohomore and 
a member of Kappa Sigma frater
nity, was made proof editor, and 
Petrick, a Margaret Morrison 
freshman, was promoted to copy 
editor.
Promoted from cub reporter to 
reporter were Jo Crisanti, Bill 
F e e m a n, Frances Hamborsky, 
Camilla Hawthorne, and Ruby 
Weisberg. Jane Connor, Catherine 
Rudy, and Marian Schrag were 
accepted on the staff as cub re
porters.
Retained in their present posi[Continued on page 6] I
Dances, Skits 
Leading Events
Spring Carnival, the biggest 
week-end of the entire school 
year, will officially open at 
10:00 a. m. Friday, May 14.
The informal dance on Fri
day night to the music of 
Skitch Henderson and his orches
tra, and the climactic formal 
dance on Saturday night, with the 
Elliott Lawrence orchestra, will 
be the highlight of the week-end.
Reigning over the festivities 
will be the Carnival Queen. Her 
Majesty was chosen by outside 
judges at a dinner held at the 
Theta Xi house on May 6. after 
an hour and a quarter of delib
eration. The only student to know 
her identity until the Corona
tion ceremonies, to be held at 2:30 
p. m. Friday in the Sylvan The
ater, is Dale A. Wright, chairman 
of the Coronation committee. The 
new queen will receive a 16 week 
modeling course at the Victoria 
Mannequin School as a prize.
Many of the campus honoraries 
will tap their new pledges at the 
Call Day ceremony, to be held in 
conjunction with Coronation.
Playing an important part in 
this years Carnival, the seven 
sororities and Citcom will put on 
Varsity Varieties skits at 2:30 p. 
m., Saturday, in the Little Thea
ter. This event is being held for 
the first time this year.Fraternity, Dormitory council, 
and Citcom sweepstakes buggies 
will begin their preliminaries at 
1:00 p. m. Friday, moving out from 
the front of Margaret Morrison 
building, and will match winners 
against winners to determine the 
champion at the same time on 
Saturday.
Leading the float parade from 
its Morewood and Fifth avenues 
starting piont at 10:00 a. m. Fri
day will be the Kiltie Band. Cash 
prizes and a trophy are expected 
to make the competition unusually 
keen.
The winners of the various events will have a chance to parti
cipate in another parade when the 
Parade of Champions leaves In
dustries hall at 3:30 p. m., Sat
urday.In order to speed proceedings, 
there will be two entrances pro
vided to the dances. Those hold
ing tickets one through four hun
dred are to enter through Thistle 
hall, the remainder through the t Continued on page 6]
Spring Carnival Program
Friday, May 14
TimeEventPlace
10:00 a. m.Float Parade Starts Morewood, Forbes
1:00 p. m.Sweepstakes Prelim.Starts at MMCC
2:30 p. m.Call Day, CoronationSilvan Theatre
(Little theater if rain)
9:00 p. m.Informal DanceGym
Saturday, May 15
10:00 a. m.Canoe Tilting Panther Hollow Pond
1:00 p. m.SweepstaitesSame as Prelim.
Finals
1:303:15 p.m. Varsity VarietiesLittle Theatre
3:30 p. m.Champions' ParadeStarts at IH
9:00 p. m.Formal DanceGym
Midway
Open from 8:0012:00 p. m.Thursday
Open from 10:00 a. m.12.00 p. m.Friday, Saturday

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MAY 11, 1948
CarneaieiEartan
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes St., Pittsburgh, Pa. TELEPHONE: SC. 4557; after hours EM. 7556, EM. 9424. 
Published weekly during the school year, except holidays 
nd examination periods, by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Editor-in-Chief ___
Business Manager . Associate Editor ... Personnel Manager
. Hubert I. Aaronson Edward F. Friedman
............Anthony Arrott......... Jay H. Johnson
News EditorBurton Epstein, FeaturesGerald E. Peck, Chief Copy EditorRobert W. Johnson, Sports EditorWilliam Schnitgen. Makeup EditorRobert Cloud, Art Editor Russel F. Kulberg, Asst. Business ManagerSamuel Moses, 
Advertising ManagerMartin S. Miller, Circulation Manager Otto Abraham.
Copy EditorPat Petrick, Headline EditorMyra-Jane Barry, Proof EditorJohn Braun, Makeup Asst.Francis Cody, 
Chief ReportersWilliam Johns, Bennard Perlman, Freder
ick C. Price, Mildred Teague, Alphonse Toppeto. Joseph Weinreich, Chief Sports ReporterBill Dorn, Chief PhotographerWilliam D. Benswanger.
Copy StaffMary Cauffield, Robert Heckert, Analee Gel- man, John Helmick, Thomas Murray.
Features StaffRobert Charpie, A. Starke Drischell, Martin Dorff, Carl Klahr.
Senior ReporterF. R. Johnson, ReportersAinslie Bricker, Jo Crisanti, William Feeman, Frances Hamborsky, Camilla 
Hawthorne, Bea Patterson, Angelia Pollis, Ruby Weisberg. 
Cub ReportersMarvin Bachman, Hilda Chottiner, Ina Jean Cohen, Jane Conner, Bee Potter, Catherine Rudy, Marian Schrag, Anita Tambellini, Nancy Will.
Sports StaffWarren Lithgow, Robin Molney.Photography StaffRichard Deininger, Ames Penfield. 
Advertising StaffShirlee Goldenfeld, Marilyn Frykdahl, Leonard Smollen, Dave Stevenson, Circulation StaffMilton Sniderman, Malcolm Samakow, Dave Steiner, Louis Sternberg, Herbert Stone.
SecretaryVirginia Steinbach, TypistsHelen Brody, Betty 
Jane Baur.
Represented for national advertising by NATIONAL ADVER
TISING, Inc., College Publishers Representative, 420 Madison Ave., New York City. Subscription $1.10 per year.
Entered as second class matter on Oct. 4, '.j)07 at the 
Post Office at Pittsburgh, Pa., under the Act of March 3, 
1879. Accepted for mailing at special rate at postage pro
vided fo.- in the Act of February 28. 1925. Authorized Octo
ber 21, 1918.
Editorial
Not Again!
When the peacetime draft proposal moved, 
a short time ago, one step further toward be
coming law, our fraternity houses echoed to 
the playful shouts of upperclassmen singing 
When the Caissons Go Rolling Along and 
the  Infantry.
We went into awesome detail on the square 
needle and 4:00 a. m. reveille, and told the 
17-year old freshmen to pay extra special at
tention to their ROTC drills.
But as we began to leaf through the first 
pages of the evenings homework just after 
dinner that night, our mind suddenly returned 
to the evenings merriment.
Sure, we were able to agree after a mo
ments thought, its fine to talk up the old dem
ocratic credo. And by all means, lets call a 
halt right nowr to the Communist, expansion.
But about the operations involvedjust ex
actly how are we going to go about this stop
ping? By initiating military action against 
the Russians?
Initiating military action is, of course, 
the formal idiom for war. But that word 
now has a new meaning for us, having been 
much enriched as compared writh the days 
when it was just a relief from boredom in the 
history texts.
It begins to translate as splendid uniforms 
and rolling oratory, and a welcome vacation 
from the grind of school.
But about a day after the vacation starts 
piles of grimy dishes to wash and choking 
dust on a drill field while the prospective 
heroes march for the big general; then inten
sive training in arts wThose only use is in war
fare.
Fear, the dominant of war, appears and 
begins to build up as the training takes effect 
and the carefully standardized techniques be
come automatic. Only the fear isnt of quiz
zes this time, but of being torn to scarlet 
chunks by those other men who operate guns 
like yours, perhaps a little better.
It begins to hurtbadlya little while 
later, and to attach itself to a big grey trans
port waiting at the dockside and to lines of
men stumbling slowly up a gangplank with 
heavy brown bags on their backs.
Then it really takes hold, and there are 
gleaming ships and puffs of black; long, iceblack nights of playing poker for unreal money 
in a tent set on ground which tears your nose 
with its stench after the rain lets up; and that 
tupid longing or milk and red meat.
[Continued on page 6]
Right Face!
By Robert Charpie
In order to have the best possible relations be
tween the administration and a large body of stu
dents, as represented by the fraternities, the ex
istence between them of harmony, cooperation, 
and understanding is mandatory. Such has not been 
the case during my experience at Carnegie Tech. 
1 must confess, however, that at least to outward 
appearances the school and most of the fraternities 
are on better terms now than they have been dur
ing the past five years.
A very apparent lack of understanding has been 
exhibited by the parties concerned. The fraternities 
have been extremely leery of one another and col
lectively distrustful of the administration. For this 
reason Interfraternity council long ago ceased to 
be anything more than a bunch of figure-heads who 
must strain themselves to produce a mediocre 
dance. I have never been able to fathom the reason 
behind this mutual distrust. It has probably been 
one of the major reasons why the fraternity sys
tem here has partially broken down.
It seems paradoxical that within the fraternity 
group are the individuals of whom the school is 
most proud. And yet the group as a whole creates 
more problems than does any other faction.
The mere size of the fraternity group may be 
responsible for this, but I dont believe this to be 
the case. Rather it would seem to me that we have 
here a weakening of the fraternities themselves 
brought about by de-emphasis of the important 
factors which individually contribute to a success
ful fraternity and collectively guarantee an active 
and strong fraternity system.
If the fraternities are to retain the position 
which I think by the very nature of their mem
berships they should occupy, they must look to 
themselves. Within each house are representatives 
of every personality type. The nature of fraterni
ty membership makes it difficult to correct mis
takes that have been previously made. It is far 
easier to just grin and bear it.
Nevertheless, until fraternities take a positive 
stand and refuse to pledge men are not up to the 
rigid standards of intellectual, moral, and social 
quality which should be met, there is little hope 
that Carnegie Tech as a whole will be able to enjoy 
the benefits which only an active and successful 
fraternity system can afford.
There is no place for self-satisfaction in the 
fraternities. Fraternity membership is not a Godgiven right to be borne lightly. It must be regard
ed as an honor and a privilege to be enjoyed only 
by those who are willing to assume the obligations 
which must go hand in hand with the receipts.
The entire campus would benefit immensely if 
the fraternity system were to operate in the letter 
of the spirit in which it was conceived, for no 
adequate substitute for an active fraternity sys
tem on a college campus has yet been found.
How about the fraternities taking on their own 
New Look and letting all of us enjoy the pro
ceeds to be derived from pulling thoughtfully and 
pulling together, rather than suffering from each 
tugging in his own direction?
Keys Ain't RightV
Slav Congress Shows 
Free Speech Utility9
By Hubert Aaronson
If you were a member of the Poliboro, the 
ruling body of Soviet Russia, and were given the 
assignment of initiating and directing a propaganda 
campaign of long range erosion to be conducted 
in the United States, what weakness in the Amer
ican system would you choose as the point-ofentry for your acid?
Your probable choice would be the right of 
free speech. This vital component of present day 
democracy can be used as impenetrable armor 
for your most vicious campaign. Anyone, attempt
ing to suppress your activities, who truly believes 
in free speech can then be met in open debate and 
defeated every time if you use this point properly.
Perhaps the best example that I have seen of 
this armor plate in action appeared in a recent 
form letter of which the Tartan office was one 
recipient. It was sent by the American Slav Con
gress of Western Pennsylvania, an organization 
which has been frequently accused of acting as 
a Communist front.
Attached to the Congress spirited letter was 
a copy of an editorial which appeared in the April
27 New York Post. Printed at the end of the edi
torial and separated from it by less than obvious 
means was their commentary, of which the fol
lowing is the essence:
If our Congressmen honestly believe that the 
Communists are out to overthrow the American 
government, the burden of the proof Is on them.
[Continued on page I]
The Student Council debate on keys waxes wroth.
Welch Hall Honor Roll Clique 
Combines 4-Factors With Fun
By William Eames
Separating from the passing pa
rade along Margaret Morrison 
Street, a file of distinctive indi
viduals may be observed to break 
off and climb the hill which leads 
ultimately to Welch Hall. Sing
ing and mumbling something 
about integrating from zero to pi, 
these people shift the weight of 
their 4-factors before starting the 
three flight climb to their own 
realm in Welch Hall.
Here there is a concentration of 
brain matter unmatched any
where on campus. For some rea
son many of the highest calibre 
men have congregated on the first 
and third floors of Welch.
When not studying or planning 
some new way to baffle the fac
ulty, these students may be found 
at each others throats in one of 
their atomic bridge games. Strains 
of symphony and semi-classical 
music are a part of the atmosphere 
in which these mentalities operate. 
To other residents the atmos
phere is just plain distraction.
Even as men of the Honor-Roll 
clique walk through the halls they 
may be heard half yelling, half 
singing in an operatic falsetto. 
And what cant a physicist do to 
Rigoletto?
The center of the Technicals 
publication^ Welch Hall is often 
the rendezvous of the Techsperts 
who gather to discuss difficult, ad
vanced problems f atomic phy
sics. Last night they designed a 
new pin-ball machine.
Equilibrium is maintained by 
the minority of assorted engineers 
and printers who live in the dor
mitory. Since the genius group 
operates at such high altitudes, 
some sort of ballast is necessary to 
keep the place on the ground.
Even from these others has 
sprung a fraternity president and 
a coke-machine racketeer. The 
artist of the space-filling cartoon 
above this space-filling feature 
likewise lives in Welch. By means 
of the usual pay station phone 
dont callyoull probably not get 
an answer  and two private 
phones in the suites of the upper
most bourgeoisie wheels, these 48 
odd residents maintain contact 
with the Carnegie Tech campus 
and the rest of the world.
Located as it is behind the ram
parts of School, evidences of light
er moments are at least partially 
hidden from the general view. 
But dont be surprised if on en
tering Welch you are chosen as a 
target by a water-bag bombardier 
on an upper floor. Plasterers are 
now busily engaged in repairing 
tangible evidences of past roughhouse affairs. Each morning they 
begin scraping and hacking with 
such enthusiasm that it has be
come impossible to sleep through 
an 8:30 class.
WCIT Schedule-May 12-18
Dormitories 900Fraternities 600
WED.THURS.FRI.MON.TUES.
7:30Pi Kappa 
Alpha Show
Kappa SigPi Kappa 
Alpha Show
Pi Kappa 
Alpha Show
Kappa Sig
8:15BetaBreakfast
Club
Beta
BreakfastClub
Beta
BreakfastClub
Beta
BreakfastClub
BetaBreakfast
Club
9:15Sign OffSign OffSign OffSign OffSign Off
7:00
SigmaNu
Show
DramaDept.
FashionsJazz
Band
Ball
7:15
PopularRecords
RecordsSports
Parade
7:30
RecordsRecords
Strictly For GirlsVarietyClub
8:00N. Y. Times 
News
N. Y. Times 
News
N. Y. Times 
NewsN. Y. Times News
N. Y. Times 
News
8:05Record
Previews
Musicraft
andLondon
MercuryPresents
CapitalPresentsVictor
Presents
9:00Music Thru 
the Ages
Music Thru 
the Ages
Music Thru 
the Ages
Music Thru 
the AgesMusic Thru 
the Ages
10:00Sign OffSign OffSign OffSign OffSign Off

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MAY 11, 1948THE CARNEGIE TARTANS
Council Approves New 
Bookkeeping System
Student Council has approved a proposal which will provide for 
an improved means of keeping records of student activities funds.
Marvin Gustavson, chemistry senior, headed a special Council 
committee that investigated the financial status of the campus ac
tivities. The committee drew up a plan incorporating a revised book
keeping system which will enable all activities to keep informed of 
their financial status and also aid Student Council and the school 
controllers office in maintaining ? 
more complete records.
All activities business mana
gers will henceforth be required
to enter a record of all receipts, 
bills, purchase orders, and checks in an incumbrance book which 
will be kept in the Dean of Mens 
office. This entry will be in addi
tion to the usuaj procedure of signing and endorsing such items.
At the end of each month, the 
chairman of the Council budget 
committee will check the records 
and balances of, all business man
agers entries and will make a re
port to Council at the second reg
ular monthly meeting*
In the event of any discrepan
cies the budget committee chair
man will contact the business 
manager concerned and make nec
essary adjustments and recom 
mendations.
It is to be clearly understood 
that Student Council will not be 
responsible for keeping the incumbrance book. Business mana
gers will have this responsibility 
with over-all supervision by 
Council budget committee.
Payment of bills will be de
layed until business managers do 
make proper entries in the in
cumbrance book. Use of incum
brance books will start this se
mester.Since the beginning of the war, much confusion has resulted over 
the accounts of activities funds.The bookkeeping improvements 
provided by Gustavsons commit
tee, are expected to accomplish 
much in the way of alleviating 
this difficulty.
Float Parade 
Opens Carnival
Champions9 Parade 
Tops Big Week-End
The colorful Spring Carnival 
weekend will be opened with a 
float parade starting at 10:15 Fri
day and will be brought to a cli
max in the Parade of Champions 
on Saturday afternoon. Entering 
the float parade are all of 
the twelve fraternities, which 
have been hard at work in recent 
weeks readying their entries. The 
parade, headed by the Kiltie Band, 
will assemble in Morewood ave
nue, follow Forbes .street. It will 
then turn up Margaret Morrison 
street, and will move past the 
gym and on through the loop of 
Schenley park. The floats will 
complete their run as they pass 
Industries hall ond the Fine Arts 
building and return to Margaret 
Morrison street again.
The prizes will be a trophy and 
$75 for first place, $50 for second 
place, and $25 for third place.The Parade of Champions will 
begin at 3:30 Saturday afternoon 
at the front of Administration hall, 
from there proceeding to Sylvan 
theatre in the rear of Fine Arts. 
There the Carnival Queen, aided 
by David Crantz, will make the 
awards to the winners of the float 
design, buggy design, Sweepstakes, 
Canoe Tilt, and Varsity Varieties.
Council Notice
Election of new members to Student Council will be held on Friday, May 28, from 11:15 to 1:45. Polls will be established in Skibo for students in all colleges, in Fine Arts and Margaret Morrison for students of those colleges respectively, and in Administration and Engineering halls for engineering students. Voters must have their own registration card in order to vote.One non-voting and ten voting positions are available for engineering stu
dents. Candidates nominated for the voting positions are John Bigley, Richard Deckman, John Engle, Burton Epstein, John Fockler, John Homer, Jack Johnson, William Knightly, Charles Koester, Arbon Lang, Gerald Meyers, Robert 
Paustian, Gerald Peck, Allan Poe, Barry Rowles, Patrick Ryan, David Sapper, 
Stanley Siegel, George Varan, and George Zenk. Bruce Barrow is the only nominee for the non-voting position.Two voting and two non-voting positions are open for Margaret Morrison students. Doreen Evans, Hilde Jacob, Carol Kamman, and Frances Rea are nominees for the voting positions. Nominees for the non-voting positions are 
Patricia Adams, Sally Luther, and Dorothy Romito.One non-voting and three voting po
sitions will go to Fine Arts students. Richard Fleischman, Jack Garver, Vir
ginia Gorman, Robert Hazard, and Gwen McDade are nominees for voting posi
tions. Gaylord Hawkins is the nominee for the non-voting position.
WHERE THERES COKE ' 
THERES REFRESHMENT
Plus l i 
State Tax
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY 
COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO. OF PA., PITTSBURGH, PA.
1948, Th Coca-Cola Company
Midway Opens 
For Business 
ThursdayNight
Complete with everything from 
the ferris wheel and cotton candy to a Beaux Arts painting exhibit, 
the Midway will be set up and 
open for business on the Cut from 
8:00 p. m. until midnight on 
Thursday and from 10 a. m. until 
12 p. m. on both Friday and Sat 
urday.
Sportsmen will be provided with 
ample chance to demonstrate as
sorted prowess in front of their 
admiring dates at the varied 
booths, to be staffed by the frater 
nities, sororities, and other organ 
iations.
Joining the other enterpreneurs 
this year will be ODK, senior 
mens activities honorary, whose 
members will sell a wide variety 
of refreshments.
Sororities Present 
Varsity Varieties
6Winsome WilV Sees New Tradition
In Skits; Drama Faculty To Judge
The 1948 Spring Carnival Committees contribution to 
Carnival tradition, Varsity Varieties, is now in dress rehearsal.
Composed of ten minute skits :to be presented by the seven 
sororities and Citeom Clan, it will be held in the Little Theater 
at 1:30 p. m., Saturday, May 15.
Slav Congress
[Continued from page 2]
They must prove that each indi
vidual party member is unfit to 
hold office or exercise citizenship 
because of a specific crime. Under 
no democratic procedure known to 
history can they summarily indict 
the entire Party membership be
cause of alleged mental attitudes 
which hight, or might not, erupt 
in treasonable deeds. [Editors 
italics].
No, the entire Communits party 
cannot be summarily indicted; 
it cannot even be seriously dam
aged if we adhere to the spirit of 
our present laws. Such action 
would indeed be a violation of 
democratic procedure  as would 
be the detonation of concealed 
atomic bombs in major American 
population centers just as roaring 
blurs of metal dive through the 
east coast inosphere some sleepy, 
off-duty Sunday morning in 195X.
But we must not abridge the 
rights guaranteed by our Consti
tution, for in doing so we become 
as are our enemies. . . .
Sorority women prepare for a rehearsal of their Varsity 
Varieties skit.
Comedies, melodramas, tragedies, and even dances be
hind silk screens are being prepared. A twelve piece jazz band 
will provide music for both skits and five minute intermissions.
Since capacity of the Little Theater is only 400, a consider
able overflow is expected, according to publicity chairman
?Bud Yorkin.
Members of the drama faculty 
will judge the skits on the man
ner in which they are executed 
and on their entertainment value. 
A trophy cup will be awarded to the winner.
Varsity Varieties promises to 
be one of the outstanding events 
of Spring Carnival, said chair
man Winsome Will Hawkins.
Through it, we hope to ini
tiate a new event which will per
mit the sororities to take an active 
part in Carnival every year.
14 Buggies 
Set For Race
First Heat On Friday, 
Finals Held Saturday
Spurred on by the cheers of Citcom Clan, Dormitory council, and 
the twelve fraternities, the high 
speed sweepstakes buggies will 
push off from the front of Mar
garet Morrison at 1:00 p. m., Fri
day, May 14 for the first prelim
inary heat.
The little speedsters, most of 
them new or extensively rede
signed, will whip around the large 
island in Schenley park by way 
of Phipps Conservatory and Frew 
street, crossing the finish line set 
up alongside Skibo in what is ex
pected to be record time.
The rules for the race have 
been tightened up in order to 
avoid the confusion of last year, 
and the winner of the final heat, 
to take place at 1:00 p. m. Satur
day, and the buggy adjudged best 
designed, will be awarded their 
trophies during the Parade of 
Champions.
Dr. Robert Gregg Resigns 
To Accept Post At Williamette
Dr. Greeg, head of the history department and acting head 
of the department of general studies in MMCC will resign on 
July 1 to accept the position of Dean of the College of Liberal 
Arts of Wiliamette university at Salemn, Oregon.
Having come to CIT as an in-# 
structor 17 years ago, Dr. Gregg 
was made acting head of the de
partment of history in 1935 as an 
associate professor. A year later he 
was promoted to a full professor
ship and made head of the de
partment of history. He has held 
his present position for the past 
two and a half years.
Dr. Gregg has been very active 
off campus as well as in college 
affairs. For two years he was cochairman of the Pittsburgh Re
gional Inter-American center. He 
is a member of the executive com
mittee of the Phi Beta Kappa as
sociation of Pittsburgii and of 
the executive committee of the Economics club of Pittsburgh.
Dr. Gregg received his A. B. 
from Oberlin, his M. A. from the 
University of Michigan, and his 
Ph. D. from Johns Hopkins.
Mrs. Gregg has also been ac
tive on the campus. She has been 
sponsor for the Delta Gamma 
sorority, and for the past two 
years, president of the Delta 
Gamma Alumnae association of 
Pittsburgh. She is past president 
of the Womens club of CIT and 
of the Wednesday club, and is a 
member of the CWCA board.
Summer Session 
Applications 
Due This Week
Students planning to attend 
either the six or eight-week sum
mer session, beginning July 2, who 
have not filed applications indicat
ing the courses they desire, should 
do so immediately. Such informa
tion is required for preparation of 
final schedules of summer classes. 
Application forms and schedule 
information may be obtained at 
the summer session office in IH 
236-C.
Director Glen U. Cleeton, in 
charge of summer session courses, 
has announced the addition of 
S-223, Analytic Geometry and 
Calculus II, to the schedule of 
mathematics courses previously 
announced. Other subjects of
fered in the eight-week session 
include chemistry, drawing and 
descriptive geometry, and physics.
During the six-week session, 
courses in music, painting and de
sign, architecture, drama, psychol
ogy and education, and sculpture will be offered.
Veterans Notice
Requisitions for equipment 
(including books) and supplies 
for the spring semester 1947- 
1948 will not be honored by the 
book store after May 22, 1948.
TUXEDO AND TAILS
Size 38 
Also, Chesterfield Overcoat
Call HA. 1184

---------------------------------------------------

4THE OA&NE0XE TARTANTUESDAY, MAY 11, 1848
TNT Beats DU 1-0, Keeps N. L. Lead
Sportscope
Revival Of Sports Interest 
Depends On Student Action
By Paul Offerman
In the past many people have ventured the opinion that 
the complete disinterest shown by the greater majority of 
Carnegie Tech students in intercollegiate athletic contests is 
a result of our inability to field a successful athletic combina
tion.
They feel that such teams could spontaneously stir the stu
dents into producing frenzied pre-game pep rallies or filling 
the gym to overflowing for most Saturday 
night basketball games.
If this is so, then much of this lack of in
terest on the part of the students should dis
appear next year when our football team* will 
probably leave the field on more than one oc
casion with a winning grin, and the basket| ball five should sport a greatly improved rec
ord over the past season.
However, we are of the opinion that it will be up to the 
students to get behind the players in full force before we will 
be able to see any of our teams at their very best.
The school administration, with a policy of athletic de
emphasis, cannot be expected to make any promotional efforts 
to increase student interest in athletic contests. The only work
able projects which would have any success in increasing stu
dent enthusiasm would seem to be those undertaken by studentoperated organizations.
Student Council of course would be the key unit in any 
such undertakings, since they must pass on all proposed ac
tivities. However, the leading social organizations such as the 
fraternities, Dorm council and Citcom, would have to be the 
spark plugs in making a success of any event.
The main purpose, that of getting students to attend 
games, would have to be followed up by encouraging them 
to take part in the cheering. Other events, which, if properly 
executed, ctmld regain the student spirit Carilegie once had, 
may take the .form of occasional rallies and excursions spon
sored by the social organizations.
BRITAINS FOREMOST
SPORTS TOURIST
for oil purposefor all ages; 
the most popular modelwith all 
the famous Raleigh features.
Phi Kaps 
Beat Nine 
Old Men 2-1
Even though play was heavily 
curtailed because of bad weath
er, the teams of the Federal league 
managed to play a few games.
The Phi Kaps continued their 
winning ways with a 2 to 1 vic
tory over the Nine Old Men. They 
scored two runs in the first inning 
on three hits, and the Old Men 
fought right back with one run on 
two hits in the top of the second. 
That was all the scoring in the 
game but by no means all of the 
excitement. Try as they might, 
neither team could score again 
because of the superb fielding 
and pitching displayed by both 
teams.
The Phi Kaps left nine men 
stranded on base, and the Old 
Mens fate was similar. Flieschman of Phi Kaps gave up only 
four hits and two walks, while 
striking out six. Kunkle of the 
Old Men allowed eight hits, two 
walks, and struck out two.
The PiKAs were defeated by 
the TXs in another hardfought 
game, 3 to 1. Johnson tripled in 
the second inning to drive in the 
PiKAs only run. The TXs col
lected three runs in the fifth and 
stayed ahead for the rest of the 
game. The PiKAs threatened seri
ously in the last of the seventh 
but a quick triple play by TX 
ended the ball game.
The Dorm Combine Bs scored 
two runs in the second inning by 
virtue of Carneys home run, but 
the Kappa Sigs fought back with 
three runs in the third inning to 
take the lead. Kappa Sig added 
two more for good measure in the 
fifth to gain a 5 to 2 victory. The 
Kappa Sigs collected nine hits 
and the Dorm team six. Two fast 
double plays were reeled off by 
the winners.
The Nine Old Men outran and 
[Continued on page 5]
Larsen of ATO hits one out
Grovers Beat 
Plaid Golfers
Meeting tough opposition for 
the second time in their two open
ing matches, the Carnegie Tech 
golfers lost to Grove City by the 
score of 14V2 to 3Vz.
However, several of the Carne
gie players lost by close scores. 
Dick Johnson was beaten by two 
strokes as he carded a 76 to beat 
his score in the previous match by 
almost ten strokes.
In a 77-77 tie with Allen of 
Grove City Skibos Ralph Sill also 
showed an improvement over his 
last score and became a contender 
for top position on the team. 
Schiller scored a point for CIT in 
an 85-82 round with Calver of 
Grove City.
Thistle Notice
All persons who have lost 
their Thistle subscriptions 
should notify the Thistle via in
terschool mail immediately.
Tartan Netmen Lose 
Match To Geneva, 5-4
Playing on foreign soil at Gen
eva, the Tartan tennis team drop
ped a close 5-4 match last Tues
day afternoon. It was a reversal 
of form from last year when CIT 
decisively won two matches from 
the Covenanters 8-1, 9-0.
Bassett and McConnell were the 
only Plaid men to win in singles 
competition, the Covies winning 
four out of six games. Mathieson, 
star of the Geneva squad, trounc
ed Taylor in straight sets 6-1, 6-4.
In the doubles the Skibos fared 
better, winning two of three 
games. Cronin and Kroko came 
from behind to win their match 
and McConnoll and Miller thump
ed their opponents in a hardfought match 7-5, 2-6, 6-2.
The contest with Allegheny on 
the Tartan courts scheduled for 
last Saturday afternoon was can
celled because of rain. The match 
will be played May 25.
Your last chance to save
$1.25 onhi
' 1SB
and $2.00 on
Get the Special Senior Rate
Sign up today with
STUDENT BOOK EXCHANGE
(Past Bouquet on Fifth Av.)
Katselas Allows DU 
Three Hits
Sigma Nu Scores 
Over Delts? 24-2
National league - leading 
TNT continued undefeated in 
intramural softball play by 
edging Delta Upsilon, 1-0. The 
only run was scored in the last 
half of the seventh inning, with 
two TNT singles and loose defen
sive play on the part of the DUs 
providing the margin of victory.
Both pitchersKatselas of TNT 
and Koch of D.U. were in top 
form, handcuffing the power hit
ters throughout the game. Kat
selas limited the DUs to three sin
gles and walked only one batter, 
while Koch gave-up four hits, 
walked one, and struck-out six. 
Once again TNTs excellent de
fensive play proved a big factor in 
their victory.
In the only other game played 
in the National league last week, 
Sigma Nu, No. 1 hammered out a 
14-2 victory over Delta Tau Delta. 
Mike Theodore led the Sigma Nus 
sixteen hit attack with two home 
runs and a double, while cleanuphitter Halliday collected three hits 
and drove in three runs. Reich, 
Sigma Nu pitcher, held the Delts 
to four hits but issued six bases on 
balls.
Standings
Team Won LostTNT ................................................... 4 0Emanon ............................................. 1 0
Sigma Nu ........................................ 1 1
Delta Tau Delta ........................... 1 1Tau Delta Phi ............................. 1 1Delta Upsilon .................................. 1 2Citcom ...................................... 0 2Dramats .......................................... 0 2
ATO Retains 
Lead With 10-7 
Win Over SAE
By virtue of their 10-7 win over 
the SAEs, the ATOs retained 
first place in the American soft
ball league. All games except the 
SAE-ATO and the Beta Sig-Beta 
contest were cancelled during the 
week because of rainy weather.
The victorious ATOs collected 
ten runs off eleven hits and made 
nine errors, while the SAEs got 
seven runs on ten hits off three 
ATO errors. Weak SAE fielding 
enabled the ATOs to jump off to 
a fast start in the first inning 
scoring five runs on four hits.
After the second inning, when 
the ATOs got two more runs, the 
SAEs settled down and allowed 
only three runs in the remainder 
of the game. Hamman got a triple 
for the league leaders for their 
only extra base hit.
Two SAEs batted 1.000 for the 
day  Klingensmith, the pitcher, 
four for four, including a home 
run, and Butts got a double and 
all three of the walks given up by 
Larsen of the ATO.
In the only other game play
ed, the Beta Sigs chalked up their 
first victory of the season, beat
ing the Betas 6-2. The Beta Sigs 
collected three runs off Seitz in 
the first, one in the sixth, and 
two in the seventh for a total of 
six while the Betas got only five 
hits and two runs off Friedman.
With all other games in the 
league cancelled, FPHA moved 
into second place on its records 
of one win and no defeats.
Standings
Team Won LostATO ... j.................................. 3 0FPHA ....................................... 1 0SAE ........................................... 1 1
Betas ......................................... 1 1
Beta Sigma Rho..................... 1 2
Dorm Comb. A .................. 1 2T, S................................................ 0 1
Printers ..................................... 0 1

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MAY 11, 1948THE CARNEGIE TARTAN5
Tartan Trackmen Win 
Over Allegheny, 70-61
Relay Men Assure Victory After
Visitors Sweep Field Event Firsts
Carnegie Techs trackmen, in their most impressive showing of 
the season, downed Allegheny college, 70-61, at the Tech bowl on 
Saturday, May 8 to register their second ^triumph of the current 
campaign.
Despite the fact that the Tartans ran away with victories in 
all but one of the running events, it was not until the relay team of 
Ernie Cassler, Fred Price, Ivor Davies, and All Yarin breezed in 
with a winning time of 2:45 that victory was assured.
With his usual consistency Cass- * 
ler topped the individual scorers
with 11% points while runner-up 
honors were shared by Alle
ghenys George Main and Virgil 
Sayre, both of whom tallied ten 
points.
George Dorman, while giving a 
brilliant display of distance run
ning, tied with two of the visitors, 
Taylor and Bernor, for third posi
tion with eight tallies.
Coach Guy Halferty announc
ed that Ivor Davies was acting as 
Carnegies captain for the day. He 
also announced the selection of 
Gene Riehl, high jumping spec
ialist, for a similar honor in next 
Thursdays encounter with West
minister. The squads final ap
pearance of the season, the TriState Intercollegiate Champion
ships at Slippery Rock on May 22, 
will find dashman Ernie Cassler 
in temporary command.
The official captain for the year, 
however, will not be elected by 
the squad until after the close of the season.
The summary of events for the 
meet is as follows:
TRACK EVENTSMile runWon by Dorman (C); Mul- finger (A), second; Warner (C), third. Time4:55.0.
440-yard dashWon by Yarian (C); 
Price (C), second; McKay (A), third. Time-0:52.8.
100-yard dashWon by Cassler (C); Kelley (A), second; Page (A), third. Time0:10.2.
120-yard high hurdlesWon by Ham- man (C); Taylor (A), second; Green (C), third. Time0:17.0.
880-yard runWon by Davies (C); Dormon (C), second; Simons (A), third. Time2:02.2.
220-yard runWon by Cassler (C); Johnson (C), second; Kelley (A), third. Time0:23.0.
Two-mile runWon by Cockrell (C); Colby (C), second; Werley (A), third. Time11:12.0.
120-yard low hurdlesWon by Taylor (A); Bernor (A), second; Ickes (C), third. Time0:14.2.
4/5 mile relayWon by Carnegie (Cassler, Price, Davies, Yarian). Time 2:45.0.
FIELD EVENTSShot putWon by Main (A); Sayre 
(A), second; Trautman (C), third. Distance355%.
DiscusWon by Main (A); Trautman (C), second; Flynn (C), third. Dis
tance1179Vi.Pole vaultWon by Hoyt (A); Green 
(C) and Sayre (A), tied for second. Height99.
High jumpWon by Sullivan (A); Riehl (C) and Christopherson (A), tied for second. Height58.Broad jumpWon by Bernor (A); Riehl (C), second; Christopherson (A), 
third. Distance201.
JavelinWon by Sayre (A); Flynn (C); Christopherson (A), third. Distance 1526.
After 
Scotch & Soda
visit
GAMMONS
Excellent Dinners 
Refreshing Snacks
Located on Forbes Street 
in Oakland
The Highland House 
in East Liberty
and Liberty Ave., 
Downtown
Track Notice
In their final appearance at home this season, the Carnegie 
Tech track and field team will 
be attempting to register their 
third win of the season when 
they engage Westminster.
Tom Jones, the Titans ace 
sprinter, is expected to give the 
Tartans Ernie Cassler his 
toughest competition of the 
season in the 100 and 220 yard 
dashes. On his last outing 
against Cassler Jones was 
clocked at :09.8.
Yarian wins the 440
Federal League
[Continued from page 4]
outhit the Sigma Nu No. 2 team 
to gain an 18 to 14 win. The 
winners scored seven runs in the 
second inning and six in the third 
for their big punch. *
STANDINGSTeam
Phi Kappa ................Gringos .....................
Theta Xi ..................Kappa Sigma .........
Pi Kappa Alpha .. Nine Old Men Dorm Combine B Sigma Nu No. 2 .
Won
21
2
2
2110
Lost0011
2
2
2
3
Rifle Meets 
Begin Monday
Scabbard And Blade 
Sponsors IM Matches
Intra-mural rifle competition, 
sponsored by the Carnegie Tech 
chapter of the National Society 
of Scabbard and Blade, will get 
under way Monday, May 17 and 
continue through Thursday, May 
20. Matches will be held in the 
rifle range, MMCC, starting at 
4:30 each day.
Firing points will be available 
for practice 10:00-11:00 a. m. and 
2:30-4:30 p. m. Tuesday, May 11 
through Friday, May 14.
The teams consist of four stu
dents, each firing ten rounds, 
kneeling and standing. Each team 
is allotted two firing points, to
tal team time being one hour 
and forty minutes per firing point.
Rifles will be supplied by the 
school but a competitor may use 
his own rifle provided it has a 
peep rear-sight and a blade or 
post front-sight.
Firing schedule:
Monday, May 17: Kappa Sigma 
1, SAE 1, ATO, Sigma Nu 1.Tuesday, May 18: Betas, SAE 2, 
ATO 2, Sigma Nu 2.
Wednesday, May 19: DU, Beta 
Sig, Sigma Nu 3.
Thursday, May 20: PiKA, Citcom, TX, Phi Kappa.
Windber Whippet 
Excels In Sprints
With the. 1948 track season in full swing, Ernie Cassler, 
Carnegie Techs watch-charm sprinter, still looms in the local 
college picture as the man to beat in the 100 and 220 yard 
dashes. Cassler, the backbone of the Tartan track team, boasts 
a perfect record in both sprinting events through two years 
of dual-meet competition.
With the school 100 yard dash record already in his pos
session, Casler has high hopes of bettering his marks of 10.0 
in the 100 and 22.1 in the 220 before the close of the season.
But the Windber Whippet does4--------------------------------------- 
not confine his efforts to these two 
events. He is an important cog in 
the CIT mile relay team which 
was clocked recently at 3:37.0 on 
the Beaver Falls track. In 1947 
Ernie also tried his hand at broad 
jumping, but after copping first 
place against Geneva, he promptly 
dropped the event from his sched
ule.
Cassler started his career as a 
runner in 1946 after winding up 
three years service as a radio op
erator and gunner with the 8th 
Air Force in England. Inexperi
ence hampered his efforts during his freshman year, but perseverence and hard work soon brought 
him fame as one of the outstand
ing collegiate trackmen in the dis
trict.
Contrary to popular belief, Ernie 
had his first brief taste of the 
track when he was a senior at 
Windber high school. After two 
days of practice, he gave up the 
sport and never entered competi
tion until his discharge from the 
service and subsequent enrollment 
at Carnegie Tech in the spring of 
1946.
In the past two years Cassler 
has proven his ability and stands 
out as the most promising lunner
SPALDING
CADDY, AVE 
TftEY SHORTENED 'this _COURSE?
MO SIR.rr-mofeNEW SPALDIN6 
V/OOOSVOUREi USIM6/
A.LOTTHE GREENS SEEM. NEARER. WHEN *VDU SWITCH TO SPALDING WOODS/ 
MEW MODELS*... PERFECTLY BALANCED TO PUT MOKE "SWINGING WEIGHT" BEHIND THE BALL.... ADD POWER
And Aca3RA.cv.TO vour.*WOOD GAME.... TKECR PATENTED 6RIP GROOVES 
VOtIR GRIP THE SAME WAY TOP. EVERY SWING.
NEW
SPALDING
WOODS
NEW * 
BOBBV JONES
WOODS
NEW
JIMMY THOMSON
WOOD S
Ernie Cassler
ever to wear the Plaid. All indi
cations are that before his eligi
bility ends in 1949 he will have 
broken all existing sprinting rec
ords at Carnegie Tech.
He is a member of PiKA fra
ternity and has been one of its 
most consistent performers in in
tramural athletics.
Make "BUD" your ARROW 
Headquarters
236 Diamond St.
Across From Donahoes
ATlantic 2964
Do* oad Tep^lit* at yor Pro only.
spaldingisets'theipaceIin sports
PERFECT FOR GOLF,
TENNIS, OR :..
\ Merely wearing Arrow basque shirts will not make 
you a Snead or a Budge, but Arrows large selection 
| of sport knits in solid colors and stripes will do 
I wonders for torsos tame as well as terrific.
| See your Arrow dealer today for a long-wearing, 
handsome and comfortable Arrow Basque shirt.
sppal dinpgd et' gnhd.......   --------------------------------------------------
UNDERWEAR  HANDKERCHIEFS  SPORTS SHIRTS

---------------------------------------------------

6 THE CARNEGIE TARTAN TUESDAY, MAY 11, 1948
Key Aivards Brought Under 
Fire; Further Action Expected
[Continued from page 1] 
keys has increased considerably. 
Opposition to the purcnase of 
these keys with part of the activi
ties funds administered by Coun
cil resulted in part, from this fact. 
In additional, some Council mem
bers feel that keys need not and 
should not be the incentive for 
extracurricular activity.
The discussion on keys appear
ed prematurely during considera
tion of the key awards proposed 
by Marilyn Allshouse, chairman 
of Council points and key commit
tee. Although opposition was evi
dent, motions to award keys to 
members of Student Council, 
Cano, the* Technical, Tartan and 
Womens Glee Club who qualify 
under present regulations were 
approved.
Dale Wright, in conjunction 
with Jack Seward, then presented 
six previously prepared resolutions 
concerning, among other matters 
of vital interest, the question of 
keys. A motion by Wright that 
these resolutions be acted upon 
as soon as possible was approv
ed. The resolution consider, in ad
dition to financing activities keys, 
freshman regulations, appropria
tions for honoraries, the StudentFaculty Liaison Committee, the 
Natonal Student Association, and 
financing of dances and banquets 
which are not all-school affairs.
Demand for immediate and def
inite action on keys was the re
emphasized as Jack Ewart moved 
to incorporate the Wright-Seward 
resolution concerning keys into 
the Council constitution by-laws. 
The motion, which was tabled for 
one week, would completely re
place the present provisons for 
keys.
This proposed revision states 
that no money shall be appropri
ated and no budget approved by 
Council to partially or totally fi
nance the purchase of activities 
keys. Students now considered el
igible for key awards * will be 
presented with certificates of 
merit authorizing them to pur
chase the designated keys at their 
own expense if, they desire to do 
so.
Janet Duffett was elected secretary of Council for the coming year and immediately assumed her duties.
Jack Seward, Chairman of Council Elections Committee, announced that all petitions for nomination to Student Council are in and checked. An official list of the nominees and provision for vot
ing may be found on page three in this issue.Approval was given the constitution of the Carnegie Technical Publications, which incorporates Cano and the Car
negie Technical. Results of the election of next years Scottie staff were also ac
cepted.After approval of a provision that no key be awarded to a Council member who has not served a complete year, silver keys were awarded to the following Council members: Jerome Bell, Janet Duffet, Howard Dunn, John Ewart, Lewis Fields, Jack Johnson, Rosemary 
Knott, JoAnn Meloy, Sema Moskowitz, 
Thomas Popielski, Paul Schucker, Ernest Snoyer, Andrew Sterett, Mary Thorpe, Emery Thurston, Katherine Trecartin, 
Theodore Ulrich, Barbara Vilsmier.Gold-jeweled keys were awarded Tartan staff members Hubert Aaronson, Edward Friedman, and Harry Silverman.Martin Miller, Otto *----- ~ ,
Moses, Anthony Arrott, Shirley Robert Johnson, Gerald Peck, liam Schnitgen received gold keys. Silver 
key recipients were Fred Price, Alphonse Topetto, Estelle Mattes, Midge Teague, William Benswanger, Harold Lipchik, 
and Herbert Stone.Womens Glee Club four-year keys 
were awarded Mary Ann Rodes, Phyllis Grant, Joan Lowe, Margarite Gautsch, and Ainslie Bricker. Ainta Mortimer re
ceived a jeweled key. Joanne Lauver, 
Joan Wagner, Lillian Macsurak, Diane Turner, Norma Maurhoff, Phoebe MacPhee, Anita Cole, Judith Garb, Mary Lou OLeary, Margaret Swift, Carol Kamman, Camilla Hawthorne, Jean Hays, Shirley Lawrence, Mabel Brittain, Vir
ginia Cramer, and Frances Rea received two-year keys.Robert Siegel, Walter Ambrose, John 
Ewart, and John Bolton received goldjeweled keys for their work on the 
Technical staff. Gold keys were awarded to Edward Pennington, Philip Bimbaum, and Lee Goldman. Lee Daniels and Dorothy Kane received silver keys.Award of a gold-jeweled key to Marvin Gustavson for his editorship of Cano, 
and gold keys to Stuart Williams and Carl Klahr were also approved.Permission was granted to Phi Kappa fraternity to hold a dance at the High
land Country Club on June 4.
EditorialtContinued from vaae 2]
As a spectral halo to everything 
else, there is the frightening vis
ion of the heady energy of youth, 
the energy which was to be spent in big time accomplishment,, 
washing uselessly over rest camps 
and vino and nails and flesh which 
grind together to keep you from 
screaming and running away be
cause those actions arent includ
ed in the Field Manuals.
No, they couldnt possibly mean 
another war. But then why draft 
men, and why are the trumpets 
blowing again?
Spring Carnival
[Continued from page I]
Mens Gym.
Checkrooms will be set up, and 
refreshments will be available in 
Thistle hall and in the womens 
gym. The latter will be equip
ped with tables, set up in cabaret 
style.
To complement tne smooth mu
sic of the famed Lawrence and 
Henderson orchestras, the gym 
will smell of spring, courtesy of 
Air Wick.
And to make the gym a satis
fying background for the dances, 
decorations co-chairmen Bennard 
Perlman and Sy Thomashoff have 
completed their transformation, 
early for the first time in many years, by using such items of 
P & D as classic dancing figures 
on large green backgrounds plac
ed on each of the girders and in
ter-connected with crepe paper.
Jo Stafford will salute Spring 
Carnival on the Supper Club pro
gram at 7:00 p. m., Friday, over 
station KDKA.
Said Carnival committee chair
man Wilton Winsome Will Haw
kins of the 1948 version of his 
charge: There has been a def
inite change in- spirit. The com
mittee chairmen have gone all 
out in their efforts to give the stu
dents the best week-end of the year.
They are giving the fellows a 
chance to leave the home town 
girl with the best possible impres
sion of CIT.
Tartan Elections
[Continued from page 1]
tions pending fall elections were
the following:
Chief reporters: William Johns, 
Bennard Perlman, Frederick C. 
Price, and Mildred Teague; chief 
photographer: William D. Bens
wanger; senior reporter: F. R. 
Johnson; reporters: Ainslie Brick
er and Angela Pollis; cub report
ers: Marvin Bachman, Hilda Chottiner, Ina Jean Cohen, Bee Potter, 
Anita Tambellini and Nancy Will; 
copy staff: Mary Cauffield, Robert 
Heckert, and Analee Gelman; 
Sports staff: Warren Lithgow and 
Robin Molny; photography staff: 
Richard Deininger and Ames Penfield; advertising staff: Shirlee
Goldenfeld, Marilyn Frykdahl, 
Leonard Smollen, and Dave Ste
venson; circulation staff: Milton 
Sniderman, Malcolm Samakow, 
Dave Steiner and Herbert Stone; 
secretary: Virginia Steinbach;
typists: Helen Brody and Betty 
Jane Baur.
Home Ec Club 
Holds Benefit
For their final project of the 
year, the Home Economics club 
held a benefit bridge on May 1 in 
Thistle hall to raise funds to help 
their adopted war orphan, Mich
elle Brothuan of France. It helped 
to provide the remainder of the 
money that had been pledged for 
the care and education of their 
ward.
Kiltie Band 
Presents 
Concert
The Kiltie Concert Band at
tracted a large audience to the 
lawn in front of Fine Arts where 
it presented a concert on Tuesday 
morning, May 4.
Included in the program were 
the selections Youth Triumph
ant Overture by Hadley, Slav
onic Rhapsody by Friedemann, 
and the popular Lady of Spain 
by Evans. The well-known march, 
Stars and Stripes Forever, was 
presented in authentic Sousa style, 
with the piccolos and brasses com
ing to the front on the final strains.
The Kiltie Band, encouraged by 
the interest demonstrated by the 
student body in this concert, plans 
to make at least one more outdoor 
appearance before the end of the semester, in addition to their ap
pearance at the Coronation and 
Call Day. The band hopes to make 
outdoor band concerts a perma
nent feature providing there is 
sufficient student interest.
A total of $1200 has been amass
ed by the Band to purchase new 
uniforms. The school and the 
Womens Faculty club each do
nated $500, the remainder being 
the profit of the concert given by 
the band on April 2 in the Car
negie Music Hall.
3 Hour Dry Cleaning
Raincoats Showerproofed
Quick Laundry Service
CAMPUS CLEANERS
4609 Forbes St. MUseum 1288
Mote people, are- Salting O01S ilwi>
H. J. Raaoldi Tabacca Ca. 
WUutaa-Salam. N. C.
Its Bob Eberlys waxing of "You Cant Run 
Away From Love."Decca Record Release
B
OB EBERLY, the romantic ballad singer, 
gives some old but good advice to cuddlesometwosomes on this click-disc.
And Bob has another good word for 
smokers. As Bob sings it, Ive tried a lot 
of different brands of cigarettesbut 
Camels suit me best.
Try Camels on your T-Zone'T for Taste...
T for Throat. See for yourself why, with Bob Eberly 
and countless other smokers who have tried and

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MAY 11, 1948THE CARNEGIE TARTAN7
Handbook Promised 
School AppropriationSummer Registration 
Will Begin June 18
The monthly meeting of Even
ing Student Council was held in 
Carnegie Union on Sunday, May
2, 1948.
The proceedings began with a report on the student handbook by 
Will Schnarrenberger. The school 
has promised an appropriation to 
cover the cost of the gray book 
material which will be included 
in the handbook.
Ray Schwalm suggested a ten
tative social calendar for next 
year so that it may be printed in 
the handbook. The list is as fol
lows:
A Smoker for the Men, A Tea 
for the Women, Thanksgiving Day 
Dance, Christmas program, InterFraternity Christmas Dance, PreLenten Dance, Easter program, 
Engineering Banquet, Swimming 
Party.
Ray Schwalm gave a financial 
report on the Engineers Banquet.George Bogovich, social chair
man, gave a financial report on 
the movie dance-swimming party 
held Saturday, May 1st.
Miss Charlene J. Tohey, a stu
dent in general studies, was made 
a representative of student coun
cil.
A special council meeting will be held on May 11th.
The Carnegie Plaid
Editor Cecille Zellner News Editor 
Anne Shack 
Associate Editors George Bogovich Catherine Romanoff 
Page edited by Evening School stu
dents of Carnegie Institute of Technolo
gy. All views or opinions expressed in 
editorial column are not necessarily en
dorsed by the Editorial Board of the Day School staff.
Socialman
Ray Schwalm, recently appoint
ed 1948-1949 social chairman of 
evening school, expresses the hope 
that the coming years social ac
tivities will meet with the stu
dents approval.
The highlights of the social cal
endar will be a Thanksgiving 
dance and a pre-lenten dance (the 
exact dates to be announced lat
er).
Besides being a member of eve
ning student council and secre
tary of Sigma Delta Phi, Ray has 
served on numerous dance com
mittees. His toughest assignment 
of the year came while serving as 
co-chairman of the Engineers 
Banquet. With the aid of several 
bottles of aspirin and $.75, he helped to secure the Hotel Henry ball
room, solicit souvenirs, distribute 
advertising materials, select the 
entertainment, and see the ban
quet through to a successful con
clusion.
Registration for the Supple
mentary Term will be held on 
Friday evening* June 1-8, between 
7:00 and 9:00 in the Office of the 
Registrar of Evening Classes, 
Room 132-A, Industries Hall.
The schedule of classes goes , into effect on Monday evening, 
June 21. Subjects with less than 
ten registrants may be withdrawn.
The tuition fee for each subject is indicated in ( ) in the
following schedule.
S-211 College Algebra (8)
M. W. F. 7:30-9:30, I. H. 215 ($40.80)
S-212 Trigonometry (8)
M. W. F. 7:30-9:30, I. H. 211 ($40.80)
S-213 Analytic Geometry (8)
M. W. F. 7:30-9:30, I. H. 208 
($40.80)S-214 Calculus I (8)
M. W. F. 7:30-9:30, I. H. 209 
($40.80)
S-215 Calculus II (8)
M. W. F. 7:30-9:30, I. H. 210 
($40.80)
S-216 Calculus ill (8)
M. W. F. 7:30-9:30, I. H. 229-B 
($40.80)
C-109 English I (9)
M. W. F. 7:30-9:30, I. H. 237-A ($37.80)
Let's go to
ISALY'S
Milk Shakes 
Big Ice Cream Cones 
Klondikes
C-110 English I (9)
M. W. F. 7:30-9:30, I. H. 235-B 
($37.80)C-401 Economics I (9)
M. Th. 7:00-10:00, I. H. 251
($37.80)
C-402 Economics II (9)
Tu. F. 7:00-10:00, I. - H. 251
($37.80)
C-465 Business Dew (9)
M. W. 7:00-10:00, I. H. 247
($37.80)
S-102 Gen. Chemistry (9)
Ree. or Lee.M. W. Th. 7:30-9:30, E. H. 218, 
215 ($45.90)
Lab. F. 7:00-10:30, E. H. 218,
214
S-231 Statics (8)M. W. F. 7:30-9:30, I. H. 319-A 
($40.80)
S-232 Dynamics (8)
M. W. F. 7:30-9:30, I. H. 319-E 
($40.80)
S-233 Str. of Materials (8)
M. W. F. 7:30-9:30, I. H. 235-A 
($40.80)
S-215b Physics I (9) Ree. or Lee. M. W. 7:30-8:30, F. 7:30-9:30, 
E. H. 209, 111 ($45.00)
Lab. M. W. 8:30-10:30, E. H. 
204, 102
S-206b Physics II (9) Ree. or Lee. M. W. 7:30-8:30, F. 7:30-9:30, 
E. H. 209, 100 ($45.90)
Lab. M. W. 8:30-10:30, E. H. 
300-B, 107 
E-801 Drwg. & Desc. Geom. I (9) 
M. W. F. 6:30-10:30, I. H. 355 
($45.90)
 E-802 Drwg. & Desc. Geom. II (9)
M. W. F. 6:30-10:30, I. H. 355 
($45.90)E-201 Surveying (9)
M. W. 6:30-9:30, Sat. 1:30-4:30, 
E. H. 60, 54 ($45.90)
E-202 Surveying (9)
M. W. 6:30-9:30, Sat. 1:30-4:30, 
E. H. 60, 54 ($45.90)
StaffLou Adams George Dawes
Ray Schwalm Charlene J. ToheyBill Wallace A1 Snowden
Frank Mihelic Jim FlahertyPat Schaffer
*  THE CARNEGIE PLAID * *_______Pae Edited by Evening School Students of Carnegie Institute of Technology
5808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
Main Plant: 
aJoti Boulevard of the Allies
Balsa Wood and 
Airplane Kits
2210 MURRAY AVE.
(68 or 69 Streetcar)
Most Up-to-Date Restaurant in Oakland
BETSY ROSS TEA ROOM
3716 Forbes Street 
 IDEAL LUNCHES  TASTY SANDWICHES
The Church Of The Redeemer
(Episcopal)
5700 Forbes Street 
HUGH S. CLARK, RECTOR
-----------------44---------------------
SUNDAY SERVICES
Holy Communion .................................................................... 8 a> mMorning Prayer and Sermon .......................................... H a- m.
(Holy Communion on 1st Sunday of Month at 11 a. m.) 
Service on the first Sunday of every month, in the Parish 
House, followed by Canterbury Club Meeting, 
also:
Every Thursday at Carnegie Inn (11:301:30) 
---------------------44-----------------
All Students Welcome
Tasty Lunches
Three Stores in the College District
Squirrel Hill 
Hobby Shop
Closest Hobby Shop 
to Tech
Ive been in the telephone business a little more than 
two years.
And what busy years theyve been!
The Bell System has added more than 6,000,000 new 
telephones, erected some 1200 buildings, buried thou
sands of miles of cable and made great strides in extend
ing and improving telephone service in rural areas.
Telephone service has been extended to automobiles, 
trucks and trains, and a new system for transmitting 
telephone conversations and television programs by 
microwaves put in operation.
At Bell Telephone Laboratories theyre working on 
new electronic devices which will bring still wider hori
zons of electrical communications within view.
Ive had a part in this post-war progress.
Theres a future in telephony.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM

---------------------------------------------------

mm
"THE LADY 
FROM SHANGHAI
A COLUMBIA PRODUCTION
HERES 
NO FINER CIGARETTE 
THAN CHESTERFIELD.
I KNOW, ITS MY BRAND."
T
WHY... I smoke Chesterfield
-on2 W CIoTIC n- CSWSI2IcSC he don2TcIcS SnhWuun -Wo2IoCl
I have done business with Liggett & Myers for over 40 years. They buy the best crops in the house at the auctions. I am exclusively a Chesterfield smoker. I think they are the best cigarette made.
QMon,
mu Arm J.Rao winTOBACCO FARMER NICHOlASVfUJ, KY.
-HESTERF1ELD
C Always milder Better tasting Cooler smoking
Coprri/jht 1948, Zjooitt ft Mvm gece Ior
THE CARNEGIE TARTAN ' ' TUESDAY, MAY 11, 1948
Bulletin Board
T utoring
Tau Beta Pi, national engineer
ing honorary, is conducting classes 
in freshmen physics, chemistry, 
and mathematics.
Classes begin this week and will 
meet each week in IH 132-F. Any 
interested student may still regis
ter for these classes by contacting 
the fraternity.
Chemistry S-102 classes are 
scheduled for Wednesday at 3:30 
p. m. and Friday at 12:30 p. m. 
Physics S-402 classes are sched
uled for Thursday at 12:30 p. m. 
and Saturday at 9:30 a. m. Math
ematics S-222 will be taught at 
12:30 p. m. on Tuesday.
Alpha Phi Omega
Alpha Phi Omega will hold a 
meeting at 4:30 on Wednesday, 
May 12, in IH 132F. New officers 
will be elected and future projects 
will be discussed. All members 
are urged to attend.
Pan-Hellenic
Pan-Hellenic councils new offi
cers are Marie DelliGatti, presi
dent; Estelle Berenfield, vicepresident; Laurel Jones, secretary; 
and Anita Cole, treasurer.
Newman Club
The Newman clubs activities 
house on N. Craig street is almost 
ready for occupancy. This house 
will provide a mailing address for 
the club and will make meeting 
rooms and recreational facilities 
available to the members.
Canterbury Club
The Canterbury club has pur
chased an activities house on Mar
garet Morrison street. It will be 
named the Canterbury club and 
should be ready for occupancy by 
fall. Housing for approximately 
ten students will be provided.
Teknon Election
Teknon elected the following 
officers for next year at its meet
ing on April 28: Nancy Cain, pres
ident; Rolf Wemhoener, vicepresident; Evelyn Thomas, secre
tary; and William Eppehimer, 
treasurer.
Beethoven Recital
Making its second appearance in 
Pittsburgh at the Carnegie Music 
hall, the renowned Budapest 
Quartet will present sixteen string 
quartets from May 17 through 
May 24 in their Beethoven Fes
tival. The performances will be 
on the evenings of May 17, 18, 21, 
and 24, with a matinee on May 22. 
Student tickets are available at 
$1.00 per concert, or $3.00 for the 
entire series. The Budapest Quar
tet is sponsored by the Pittsburgh 
New Friends of Music society.
Music Recital
Students of the music depart
ment will present a recital in the 
Exhibition room at 8:15 p.m., Sun
day, May 16. The program will 
be largely of a classical nature.
EXPERT REPAIRS
RADIOS, PHONOGRAPHS, APPLIANCES
Sales and Service
LEWIS RADIO 
ELECTRIC CO.
1123 OAKLAND AVE. MA. 4211
Bring Your Radio Problems 
To Us
tt TEARS EXPERIENCE
At Your Service
