The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 37 No. 3CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, JUNE 8, 1943
AC AC Will Sponsor 
All-School Summer 
Social On Nineteenth
An all-school dance to be held in 
the mens gym Saturday night, 
June 19, was approved as the first 
big event of the summer social sea
son by the Army-Civilian Activities 
Council at its meeting last Thurs
day. All Tech students, soldiers 
and civilians, are invited to attend. 
Miss Mary Ann Rial, chairman of 
the dance, announced that tickets 
will cost $1.10 per couple. The 
theme has not yet been chosen but 
the gym will be decorated and the 
dance will be as like regular Car
negie gala affairs as war conditions 
permit.
ASTP representatives to Council 
suggested that the army dance band 
be considered for the coming affair. 
This orchestra, as well as several lo
cal dance bands, will be auditioned. 
If possible, the Black Cat will be 
opened to the dancers. The ACAC 
recognized that this is the first time 
the student representative body has 
sponsored a school event other than 
Spring Carnival. Since war condi
tions have curtailed the usual spon
sored events, such action was neces
sary to brighten the summer social 
calendar.
To make the affair a success, the 
cooperation of the entire student 
body will be needed. The last armycivilian social activity was medio
cre; lets make this a dance to be re
membered.
AS'lP QentUmen! Paul Brautigam, Music Grad,
To Direct Carnegie Glee Club
Sclienley Teacher 
Plans Popular Song 
Program For Group
Intersorority Council 
Invites You To Dance
By Helen Currimings
Gentlemen of the Army.: This is 
an invitation; this is a plea; this is a 
threat! You come to our dance or 
elseor else well give you two de
merits in our little blue books.
To make the matter just as sim
ple and uncomplicated as possible, I 
shall give you specific directions. 
On Saturday, June 12, you are to 
cofnplete your baseball games by 
three oclock, rush up to your lit
tle rooms, jump out of your fatigue 
clothes and into your uniforms, and 
en masse march over to the Exhibi
tion room of the Arts Building 
(across from the Hut). From there 
on, soldiers, at ease, because the 
sorority girls, past and present, and 
the present Maggie Murphs are go
ing to take over at a tealess tea 
dance. Well be there to meet you 
because were going to come at 3:00, 
and you dont have to be there until 
3:30.
From 3:30 to 5:30, we can all 
get acquainted and start to make 
plans for the second ACAC dance 
which is on June 19. To attend the 
latter affair, you must have a date, 
so well call this a rousing prevue 
for coming attractions.
Nasty rumors were spread around 
campus after the last dance about 
an excess of shoe leather keeping 
you away. Neither the absence nor 
the excess will make a bit of dif
ference to us. For whats a pair of 
shoes tween friends?
Pi Kappa Alphas And Campus Mourn Death 
Of Pike, The Visitor Who Stayed Six Years
By Marty Gross
The story runs that he just walk
ed in one day and stayed for six 
years. He was a shabby thing, 
about a foot and a half high, with
out anybody to vouch for his 'line
ageso they gave him the benefit of 
the doubt  called him a cross be
tween a Shepherd and a Collie  
named him Pike, and stuck a 
pledge pin on him. And hes been 
a legend ever since.
People who become legends are 
often impressing symbols of admira
tion. But not Pike.
It all began thirteen years ago.
Born of mother unknown, father 
suspected, a mongrel entered the 
world. Little is known of his early 
life, but they swear it was one of 
dissipation, for it was indeed a 
sorry-looking mutt that entered the 
PiKA house in 1937.
He slowly cut his niche into the 
hearts of his brothers for Pike was 
not what is commonly termed af
fectionate. Emotion was not one of 
his faculities. At best, he would al
low himself to be petted, place his 
front paw across his mouth, and 
yawn. Just a good natured, indolent 
mutt.
Stoicism is a memorable trait, but 
often a persons wrath rises up
within him. And so it was with 
Pike. Neatness and drinking were 
obsessions with him, and the PiKAs 
still tell of the memorable evening 
when Pike reveled in all his glory. 
It was a weekend dance, and Pike 
was on a bender. He had been pre
sented with an engraved beer bowl, 
and forgetting his temperance 
teachingslapped it dry. Crawling 
the stairs into a brothers room, he 
was taken back by its neatness. He 
tore into a pillow, and dragged it to 
the midst of the dance floor, its 
feathers covering the occupants, 
floor, and walls. Pike sat in the 
midst of the turmoil, wagging his 
white-tipped tail, looking very tired 
and drunk.
But tragedy has come to the 
PiKAs, for Pike is dead.
None pity him, for he was old, 
and death must come to all. But 
all mourn him, for he lived a use
ful lifebringing happiness into the 
lives of everyone who knew him. 
His black hair had tinges of gray, 
and his old legs were finding it hard 
to support him, but he was still the 
lazy mutt that came one day and 
stayed for six years.
At least thats the way they like 
to think of him.
MR. PAUL BRAUTIGAM 
. . . new Glee Club director . . .
YMCA Stages Song Fest 
For Soldiers, Civilians
A community sing sponsored by 
the Y. M. C. A. will take place at 
6:30 on Tuesday evening, June 8, in 
the Sylvan Theater.
Members of the Army Specialized 
Training Program, as well as all 
Carnegie students, have been invit
ed to attend. Tech cheerleaders will 
be on hand to enliven the program, 
which will consist of school songs 
and popular music.
Singing will be led by Bert Mustin, a graduate of Tech. He is a 
noted song leader and for many 
years led the sings for the Fresh
men. The piano accompanist will 
be A1 Waslohn, a student who di
rects, plays, and arranges for his 
own dance band.
Should the initial attendance 
prove large enough, the Y. M. C. A. 
will sponsor such a song fest each 
week. The weekly joint hymn sing 
of the C. W. C. A. and Y. M. C. A. 
will be held Sunday evening from 
5 to 5:30 in the Chapel.
Summer Session Starts
Although curtailed somewhat be
cause of the war-time exigencies, 
Carnegies twenty - sixth annual 
summer session will soon start. 
June 25 and 26 are the dates desig
nated for registration, with classes 
scheduled to begin Monday, June 28. 
The six-week curriculum will* con
sist this year of only Fine Arts cur
ricula, as courses in Dramatics and 
Engineering have been suspended.
Except for a course in instrument
al music for high school students, 
the summer program is designed to 
teach students, graduates, and teach
ers. The subjects available for these 
latter groups are Music, Painting 
and Design, Sculpture, and Archi
tecture. All courses except the one 
in instrumental music will carry 
college credit upon their success
ful completion
By Adeline Herlick
With the promise of eighty-eight 
soldiers and thirty-two civilian stu
dents to take part, the newly or
ganized Glee Club will begin its 
season today by holding initial try
outs in Room 152, Arts, between four 
and six oclock, under the leader
ship of Mr. Paul Brautigam.
Mr. Brautigam has high hopes for 
this organization which has as its 
nucleus nine students, members of 
last years group. When asked what 
he thought of a soldier-student as
sociation Mr. Brautigam said, Its 
a grand opportunity. I hope it 
works out, but I dont see why it 
shouldnt.
Aside from keeping a farm in 
Ross Township in spare moments, 
Mr. Brautigam is in charge of vocal 
music at Schenley High School.
After his graduation from Carne
gie in 1931, where he majored in 
Public School and vocal music, 
studying with Miss Seaman, Mr. 
Brautigam was given a teaching po
sition in Leetsdale, Pennsylvania. 
He then became supervisor of music 
at the Bellevue High School from 
which position he transferred to his 
present capacity at Schenley.
Although he has not yet won uni
versal or even national fame, Mr. 
Brautigam is known all over the 
state of Pennsylvania as the suc
cessful director of the Bellevue High 
Schqol Chorus which won a state
wide contest of vocal competition.
Mr. Brautigam, a good-natured 
man of medium height and graying 
hair, expects to present a repertoire 
of popular, as well as the usual choir 
classical music, and if Mr. Brautigams telephone conversation with 
this reporter was wholly representa
tive of his personality, the Glee 
Club this season should outshine 
those of previous years. Because of 
his genial character and extensive 
training, Mr. Brautigam will surely 
be approved and appreciated by the 
boys who will be working with 
him.
Mortar Board To Hold 
Weekly War Stamp Sale
From 12 noon until 1 oclock on 
Thursday of this week, Mortar 
Board, national honorary, sorority 
for senior women, will hold the 
first in a series of weekly war stamp 
sales in front of Administration 
Hall.
Subject to weather conditions, the 
first days sales will probably be 
held in the booth outside of the Reg
istrars office.
The sale of war stamps was for
merly handled by the Carnegie 
Tech War Council but Mortar 
Board has taken over the sales for 
+he summer.

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, JUNE 8, 1943
Cdlto^i Anmcluzi/i
Wake Up, Carnegie!
You slovenly-minded students at Carnegie Tech, why dont you wake 
up to what the score is on your own campus? Most of you neither know 
nor care how the affairs that belong to you are being handled. A select 
few have at least the grace to complain of the actions of their governing 
body. In theory, democracy prevails at Carnegie Tech. But how truly 
do you feel that you are being represented in our student- government 
set-up?
Lazy Politics
Upon whom does the blame for this lack of unity between the stu
dent and his government rest? The governing body of Carnegie Tech, 
formerly Student Council, now ACAC, is composed of representatives from 
each of the three colleges, and the ASTP. These representatives are elect
ed by the students, and responsible to them for the laws that are passed; 
they are pledged to an impartial representation of student wishes. In a very 
real sense, then, the student body could have the final say about every 
campus activity. The fault, then, lies with the students who have been 
too lazy or too indifferent to find out what is going on in the Student Coun
cil or ACAC meetings and have failed to instruct their representatives how 
they wish them to vote.
Repeal The Ruling
Right now a group of womens organizations are protesting the action 
of Student Council in freezing the funds of all organizations, effective as 
of May 2, 1943. Whether they are right or wrong is not the question we 
wish to raise in the minds of the students as a whole. The point is that 
these women should have found out what was happening to the surpluses 
accumulated by their organizations at a time when such a motion could 
have been voted by their representatives, the minutes of Student Council 
were published weekly in the TARTAN, copies of all motions for major 
changes are available for at least a week before they are decided upon, and 
representatives on all committees are easily contacted if information is de
sired. Once a student clearly understands a motion before the govern
ing body, it is his responsibility to tell his representative his opinion of the 
motion. It is too late now for these womens organizations to do anything 
but attempt to repeal the Student Council ruling if they so desire. A special 
committee has investigated this action and its report is now in Dean Mur
phys office. It is now up to the women students who are in protest to 
read the report of the committee, to ask for explanations if the situation 
is not clear, to make suggestions, to come to ACAC meetings to hear the 
discussions of the group, and finally to tell their representatives exactly 
how they wish them to vote.
Practice In Democracy
Only when the students begin to realize their responsibility to take an 
active part in the student government can we expect to consider our Car
negie Tech a democratic institution. Remember that democracy is not a 
lofty ideal; it is the basic way of life for which we are now engaged in a 
world war. Men of all ages, in history have striven toward self-deter
mination, in the little things of life as well as the more important matters. 
Is it not, then, vital that students of an institution that is supposed to fit 
them for leadership, have practice in democratic management?
Well, then, you students who complain of the dictatorial policies of 
ACAC, and you who are interested in the democratic way of life, get on 
the ball! Find out what your student government is doing. Tell your rep
resentatives how they should vote. See that your will is done!
T. J. H.
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the 
staff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not 
to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Cuitfli Uitititf 9t Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh, Pa.
PHONE MATFLOWEB tM PHONE SCHENLEY 4557
MNIWNTM roM NATIONAL ADVINT IMM NY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
CUU$ PwHmktrt ReprtunUt*
Vol .37NCA Avi.REG ICNST UT IT 
im ra
After Office Hours Call
Editor-in-Chief...........................HI. 7093
Business Manager........................SC. 8951
u iMtil-tliii MllH In n* Pittsbargh Prt Office ander the Act of March 3, 1179. 
PiklliM weekly firing school year, except holiday* and examination periods. 
Subscription Price $1.19 per year.
Editor-In-Chief.........................................................................................................T. J. Harmany
Business Manager..............................................................................................................Nick Reed
Co-Managing Editors................................................................Helena Aronson, Walt Darby
Sports Editor............................................................................................................John Lindberg
Asst. Business Manager.................................................................................................Merle Wolff
Advertising Manager ........................................................................................... Naomi Ellman
Circulation...............................................................................................................Chester Feinberg
Junior Editors___Aron Beck, Marty Gross, Adeline Herlick, Marty Jacobs, Bill Kolb
Sports Staff ................................ Al Neleson, Chuck Peterson, Bill Perkins, Joe Dogan
Business Staff...................Bob Charpie, Ed Von Halle, John Krummell, Bill Watkins
Reporters: Gerald Brickman, John Murray, Pvt. Bernard Marcus, Pvt. Bill Byrnes, 
Tom Farrahey. Seymor Corwin, Con Corey, Marshall Nurenberg. Walter Ell
man, Helen Cummings, Mary Jane Ferguson, MaXcolmn Festenstein. 
Typists ...............................................................................................Ruth Means, Gean Baber
one of the boys
I have a brother who wont come 
to Tech, if I can help it. This com
ment didnt come from some disil
lusioned frosh who feels that his 
grades arent just right, but was 
made by one of the really wellknown Tech engineersRobert K. 
Noyes. R. K. as his Delta Upsilon 
brothers call him, is no crackpot, but 
has a peculiar habit of knowing 
what hes talking about. He hap
pens to be the new editor of the 
Carnegie Technical (after serving 
as feature editor last year), is pres
ident ;Of the Publications Commit
tee and acts as its representative to 
ACAC. Besides of all this, his frat 
brothers have shown their faith in 
his abilities by appointing him the 
financial genius in the D. U. 
house.
They say it is a real job to try to 
find the Bloomfield, Michigan boy 
until after nine oclock in the even
ing. If he isnt in class, he is apt to 
be in the Techincal office, working 
with the printer, meeting with 
ACAC, or waiting in line at the 
Forbes Street bank. Its a pretty 
safe bet, though, that youll find 
him at the DU house from 9 to 3 
every evening really rasslin the 
books in order to keep up his hon
or roll rating. Bob came to Tech on 
a Brashear scholarship and his abil
ity was recognized with the award 
of a Carnegie scholarship this year. 
Spending as much time out of doors 
as possible, R. K. is far from being 
a self-centered intellectualhes a 
sparkplug on the DUs intramural
. . . Bob Noyes
teams and plays a bang-up game of 
golf. (His golf is so good that his 
brothers are afraid to play him, he 
makes them look so bad).
Even though his favorite indoor 
sport is ping-pong, Bob was not
BOB NOYES 
. . . his brother wont come . . .
backward in adding that another 
indoor favorite was dropping 
down to Oakland for a little re
freshment during odd hours.
In listing his pet hate, Noyes 
claims he isnt aiming at any stu
dent in particular, but that the fel
lows who are out for activities 
merely to get the keys are No. 1 on 
his list. Bob practices what he 
preaches because even though he 
. . . Continued on page four
Voo Mock, *100- Soo+i!
May 8, 1943.
While the professional has always 
been fairly sure of knowing what 
made Higher Education higher, the 
amateur has never had any such 
confidence in his ability to size the 
thing up. For a long time, the pro
fessional has been running the show 
and the Higher part has been con
tinually going up. Now a change 
has come to pass and the amateur 
is handling the stop and go 
sign.
The immediate result, from the 
point of view of the professional, 
is questionable and the expected 
final outcome tragic. From the 
standpoint of the folks in the mid
dle, both immediate result and ex
pected final outcome are wholly be
yond prediction. Some of the mid
dle folks say that Higher Education 
will be a war casualty, others say 
it never had enough life to be a 
casualty, and still others say, Lets 
talk about the black market.
Certain it is that advice and sug
gestion are not limited. Certain it 
is, also, that both advice and sug
gestion have the support of author
ity. One not too much restrain
ed would possibly say that the col
leges and universities are being 
told a few things.
To those who have labored long 
and carefully to build the Higher 
Education structure, the coming of 
the fixers and improvers has 
seemed to be like the coming of a 
flash flood down some mountain 
gulch. They wonder whether or
not they may find that the flood will 
pass as quickly as it came and they 
are wondering also concerning the 
possibility that the structure will 
pass.
We can lose the war because of 
too little, too late and we can al
so lose the war because of too 
much, too soon. Fragility is char
acteristic of many creations. The 
finer and the more delicate the 
craftsmanship, the greater the dan
ger of damage or destruction. High
er Education is one of those crea
tions needing the label Handle 
with Care. The kind of overhauling 
needed to get some things into con
structive use is not the kind needed 
to transform other things into ef
fective agencies. Higher Education 
will be effective as an agency only 
if it can function in terms of its 
own composite organization.
Too much, too soon, even when 
given by well-wishers, is a danger
ous practice to try on Higher Ed
ucation. Take it easy, brother, so 
that the machinery for research, in
vention, discovery, and creation may 
not be hopelessly disorganized. In 
this emergency, we need every pos
sible advantage that may come 
through the use of knowledge, clev
erness, and skill. The genius may not 
know the baseball score, but he may 
give the pliot a new bomb sight or 
a tool that is twice as efficient.
Raymond E. Manchester 
Dean of Men 
Kent State University 
Kent, Oh'''

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, JUNE 8, 1943THE CARNEGIE TARTANS
Pictures In Plaid
j Softball Begins
By J. Lindberg, Sports Editor
At long last the intramural softball season has gotten underway, and 
from the start of things the whole affair seems to be headed for some de
gree of success judging from the amount of interest shown both on the part 
of the civilian and army teams. The competition is fully as keen as ex
pected, and rivalry between the civilian and army teams is running at a 
high level.
Many difficulties were encountered along the way, the chief one being 
the scheduling of army teams for those days that it could play. Also the 
time element was a headache for awhile, but the hours from 4 P. M. to 
5:30 P. M. seem to be working out quite satisfactorily. The majority of 
the games are over by 5:15 P. M., giving the participants plenty of time to 
clean up in time for dinner. A sincere vote of thanks is given for the hard 
work by Gail Litton and Pvt. R. Studer, who are the heads of the Softball 
Committee appointed by the Intramural Board.
It was expected that the A. S. T. P. teams would largely swamp the 
civilian teams, since their members are on the average older and in bet
ter physical condition than the civilian athletes. However, the tally for 
last weeks games show that the civilian teams did all right for them
selves, coming up with an even score of four wins and four losses against 
the army boys. The most exciting game of the week was the game be
tween Citcom and Platoon 4, Company A, which was played last Wednes
day. The Citcomers showed a lot of stuff and came up on the win column 
by a score of 4-3. From this angle it rather looks like they are the team 
to beat for the school championship, if this writer is permitted to go out 
on the limb.
Army Shows Interest in Golf:
There are rumors going around that the A. S. T. P. members Have been 
inquiring if they could schedule a match in golf with the Carnegie Tech 
varsity squad. This may very easily start a precedent as far as sports go 
on this campus. If such a match comes about, there is no reason why more 
varsity teams could not play the army athletes. Tennis and football are 
ideally suited for this type of competition, as well as other sports present 
on the Tech campus. Such a thing does seem very worthwhile, and first 
rat^ competition could be secured from it, since many of the Army fellow 
have been top-notch athletes on campuses of other colleges before coming 
to Tech. Developments should prove to be very interesting, and here 
is hoping that something can be done about it. I am sure that Mr. Buddy 
Ov^rend, Director of Intercollegiate Athletics, will be willing to co-operate 
to the fullest extent of his capacities.
Metallurgists Show Stuff Again:
Last Friday evenirfg in the Carnegie Bowl, the senior metallurgists un
dertook to turn the tables on the faculty for once by challenging them to a 
snappy (?) game of mushball. The game wasnt exactly what could be call
ed classy, although the participants did derive a great amount of pleasure 
from it The sad part of the whole game was the fact that the grads and 
instructors took the measure of the seniors to the tune of 9-6. Big Ben 
Alexander of the teachers acted as seige-gun for the brain-trust. We 
just wonder if there was beer in it for the winners.
Intramural Softball Gets 
Off To Much Delayed Start
.. ACAC Minutes..
 The meeting was called to order 
at 5:10 p. m.
Present: Messrs. Byrnes, Fair
child, Futchik, Lindberg, Noyes, and 
Sher, and the Misses Beall, Rial, and 
Shadell.
COMMITTEE REPORTS 
Athletic
Mr. Lindberg read the Minutes of 
the Intramural Board. He moved 
that they be approved by A. C. A. C. 
Motion carried.
Social
Miss Rial moved that the Petition 
from the Social Committee of A. C. 
A. C. to hold an all-school dance in 
the mens Gym on Saturday, June 
19, from 9 to 1 be approved. Motion 
carried.
Miss Rial moved that the petition 
from the Y. M. C. A. to hold an all
school sing in the Sylvan Theater on 
Tuesday, June 8, from 5 to 6 be ap
proved. Motion carried.
Publications
Mr. Noyes read the report of the 
Publication Committee. He moved 
that the Grants in Aid for the staffs 
of the publications be approved on 
separate groups. The first group 
consists of business manager of Publiations and the assistant members 
of the business staffs, and the sec
ond, of the editorial staffs. Motion 
carried.
Budget
Mr. Sher moved that the budget 
for grants in aid for the TARTAN 
editorial staff for the summer tri
mester be approved. A person ob
taining one of these grants must be 
able to show his need for the aid. 
Motion carried.
Mr. Sher moved that the budget 
for grants in aid for the business 
staffs for publications for the sum
mer trimester be approved. Motion 
carried.
Mr. Sher moved that the budget 
for the TECHNICAL for the next 
five months be approved. Motion 
carried.
Special Committee
Miss Shadell read the report of 
the Special Committee concerning 
the freezing of funds by Student 
Council. She moved that any spec
ific action be tabled until next week. 
This report will be in Mr. Murphys
THE
PLACE TO EAT
------in------
OAKLAND
------is------
BILLS LUNCH ROOM
3911 Forbes Street
By Chuck Peterson
The 1943 softball season got un
der way last Wednesday afternoon 
with four games being played in 
perfect baseball weather. The 
games were played on the cut and in 
the Carnegie bowl, with Army 
teams competing against a civilian 
team in every game. The army 
proved superior to the civilians on 
Wednesday, winning three out of 
four games, but on Thursday the 
civilians came back with three wins 
in four games to even the score.
Wednesday the first platoon of 
Company A beat the SAEs 6 to 1 on 
field one. The Army scored once 
in the second, twice in the third, 
once in the fourth, and twice in the 
sixth, while the fraternity men 
waited until the last inning to push 
over their lone tally. The second 
game was again won by the Army 
as the second platoon Company A 
beat the TXs in a free hitting 
game. The combined Kappa Sig, 
Phi Kap team lost to the tune of a 
9 to 3 score, completely fooled by 
the excellent pitching of the third 
platoon team. The lone game won 
by the civilians was won by Citcoms as they beat the fourth pla
toon, Company 4, 4 to 3 in a tight 
pitchers battle. The army team 
scored twice in the second and once 
in the sixth while Citcom tallied 
once in the third, twice in the fifth, 
and pushed across the winning run 
in the last inning.
In four games on Thursday the 
second platoon Company B won its 
game over the D. U.s, 6 to 5, but 
three other games were won by the 
civilian teams. The first platoon lost 
to Cameron Hall, 5 to 3 in a tightly 
played game. The dorm boys scor
ed once in the fourth and then had 
a big inning, scoring 4 runs in the 
fifth. The Army scored once in the 
first, and twice in the sixth, but was 
unable to tie the score in their half 
of the seventh. The PiKAs went on 
a scoring spree to defeat the Third 
Platoon 16 to 5. The fraternity
office and anyone wishing to read it 
may do so during this week. Motion 
carried.
NEW BUSINESS
The policy of A. C. A. C. in hold
ing social events was discussed. 
There was no action on this matter. 
Adjournment.
Respectfully submitted, 
Elizabeth Beall 
Secretary
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
We offer SPECIAL RATES for 
Cleaning to the ARMY MEN at 
Tech. Quick Service.
CAMPUS 
CLEANERS
4609 FORBES ST. 
MUseum 1288
men showed a lot of power at the 
plate and may become a serious con
tender for the league championship, 
although it is a little early as yet to 
make predictions. In another free 
scoring, but closer, game the Delts 
beat the combined fourth and fifth 
platoons of Company B, 9 to 8. This 
game produced several big innings 
as each team had a 5 run rally, the 
Delts in the first and the army in the 
third.
Notable in the games of the first 
week was the quality of the pitch
ing in some of the games. Several 
army pitchers and the Citcom pitch
er did excellent jobs and help their 
teams immeasurably in winning 
their games. This is important be
cause there is much truth to the 
statement that the pitcher makes 
or breaks a ball team. There has 
been some question about postpon
ed games, but the likelihood now is 
that they will be run off on Friday 
and Saturday afternoons.
Resume of Board Meeting
At the last meeting of the Intra
mural Board on Wednesday, June
2, 1943, Joe Eiger made a report of 
his findings on the eligibility ques
tion for civilian teams. Hitherto for 
a man to compete for a fraternity it 
was required for him to be a mem
ber of that organization. Since many 
of the houses have fellows living in 
them that do not belong to the fra
ternity, it was decided by the Board 
to permit men to play for a team 
providing that he either be a mem
ber of the sponsoring organization, 
eat meals at the fraternity house, 
live in the house, and be off probation other than scholastic. All ros
ters are frozen at the time competi
tion begins, and in order to change 
them, a petition must be submitted 
to the Intramural Board for its ap
proval. The above rules apply to 
the civilian teams entered in the in
tramural program. The A. S. T. P. 
teams are permitted to change their 
rosters at will two days before the 
scheduled game takes place.
^Km H
Fort Pitt is the Place 
to Rent
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, JUNE 8, 1943
Aiaclean fyantcMf, 9*t Qneen
By Bucky Private
Dunn, Bartles Become 
U. S. Naval Aviators
Ostensibly they sent us here to 
learn to make our brains work, but
I guess the brass hats are just a 
bunch of big outdoor men after all. 
At least, they insist that we are 
given plenty of exercise in the wide 
open spaces around campus. We 
drill, do calisthenics, go down to the 
Greeks (what that has to do with 
it, I dont know) and we race over 
the obstacle course.
Way back last fall the phys ed 
instructors around here began 
thinking that the Techites were a 
pretty sad looking bunch of fel
lows, so they devised a fiendish trail 
of splintered lumber, through 
which they could herd the hapless 
civilians in the vain hope that more 
muscles might be forthcoming. Un
fortunately, the course was not com
pleted until rather late in the fall, so 
that the students have not had much 
time to enjoy it. Then they move 
us in.
We start out in the bowl, which is 
a big hole in the campus with a 
football field on the bottom. The 
first torture is to climb a near
vertical embankment, with the aid 
of a wooden lattice, and then to go 
over a rail fence. After the rail 
fence, one races ahead and charges 
across a wooden platform toward 
one of three iron poles. When he 
reaches the edge of the platform, his
Technicals R. K.
Continued from page two . . . 
served on the Tech Rifle team his 
freshman year, he gave it up dur
ing the following semester in order 
to devote more time to the Tech
nical. His work on the Technical 
was recognized when he was initiat
ed into Pi Delta Epsilon, national 
journalistic honorary.
Bob never gets more than six 
hours sleep on school nights be
cause he is carrying 68 units this 
semester along with his heavy ex
tra-curricular schedule. He goes for 
symphony in small doses, but Fred 
Waring is his favorite orchestra 
leader. His avid liking for watch
ing track meets stems perhaps, from 
the fact that, as a youngster he spent 
much of his time in Ann Arbor, 
Michigan, seeing the Big Ten meets. 
(Dont think him disloyal to Tech if 
he says Michigan State is his favor
ite schoolafter all, he is a Mich
igan product).
Despite the fact that he probably 
would come under the classification 
of rugged, Bob has little time for 
women and has no steady girl 
friend. After finishing his work here, 
he hopes to specialize in Physical 
Chemistry in graduate school at 
MIT or Cal Tech, but this probably 
wont be until after the war. The 
one thing he would like to see in the 
way of campus reform is the elim
ination of campus politics.
Not that it is a sure thing but 
according to Bobs frat brothers, 
Bob predicts that the Detroit Tigers 
will cop the American league pen
nant.
About Bobs brotherNoyes isnt 
really disloyal to the Plaidhe just 
feels that a boy out of high school 
should go to a liberal arts college 
for atmosphere for a year or so 
then by all means, come to Tech!
brain reels with the height and he 
falls outward, just managing to grab 
the pole, which is about two or three 
miles from the edge, and slide down. 
At the bottom a little green man 
hands him a bottle of something 
that tastes good.
By now one is walking on air up
side down, and his head is banging 
into wooden beams that continually 
get in the way. The torture is in
describable, but comes a breather. 
It is a tunnel which offers hidden 
relaxation. No! The unthinkables 
trained a skunk to follow each man 
into the wooden tunnels. Down in
to the bowl! The earth reels and we 
spin until a huge green snake comes 
through the orange mist and hands 
us another bottle. The earth flies 
away below and Maggie Murph gets 
ready as we race toward the second 
half of the course. A rope climb 
sends us rocketing out into space, 
where we are met by a little green 
board fence which offers the in
structor a bottle. A sniff of the cork 
and we drop on to the nearest cloud 
for a rest. The sun blazes white, 
the white burns our eyes and forms 
are visible. It is the walls of a 
shower in the dorms that are white. 
Water rushes over us. The obstacle 
course has disappeared; we have 
passed over it with flying colors 
(how high they flew the instructors 
could never guess.)
CWCA, YMCA Plan Novel 
Outing at Ridgeview Park
The Ca,rnegie Womens Christian 
Association and the Y. M. C. A. are 
planning to hold a three-day retreat 
at Ridgeview Park, the weekend of 
June 25. The Retreat will open 
with dinner on Friday evening and 
close with a dinner early Sunday 
afternoon.
Although the complete program 
has not yet been arranged, it has 
been decided that some portion of 
the total expenses must be paid by 
the delegates themselves. It is very 
important that all those interested 
sign up in Mr. Davis office in the 
Carnegie Union, on or before Wed
nesday, June 8. The retreat is be
ing held for the student bodyof 
Carnegie Tech, and all those inter
ested are invited to attend.
Notice
During the past year, the TAR
TAN printed a column called On 
The Campus in. which announce
ments of meetings and parties were 
included. With the summer semester 
now well under way, we shall re
open this column for everyones 
convenience.
If any organization or person 
wishes to have a notice inserted, he 
need merely hand it in at the C. I. 
T. Post Office to be placed in the 
Tartan box, No. 209. The notice 
should be in by the Friday before 
the Tuesday of publication.
The swimming pool in the Car
negie Gymnasium will be open for 
the use of the women students on 
the Tech campus this summer on 
Tuesday and Thursday afternoons. 
The hours are from 1:00 to 3:00.
CHANG DUNN 
. . . Naval Aviator . . .
Two former Carnegie Tech stu
dents, Harold Dunn and William 
Bartles, have been appointed Naval 
Aviation Cadets according to word 
received from the U. S. Air Training 
Center at Pensacola, Florida. Dunn 
completed the elimination training 
course at the Naval Air Station at 
Memphis, Tennessee, in March; 
Bartles competed his course at the 
same place in April.
Upon completion of the course at 
Pensacola these men will be com
missioned either Ensigns in the 
Naval Reserve or Second Lieuten
ants in the Marine Corps Reserve. 
At that time they will receive their 
Navy Wings of Gold with the 
designation of Naval Aviator.
Dunn, a student in the Printing 
Department, was a very active man 
on the campus where he was known 
as Chang. He had letters in foot
ball and basketball and three other 
sports.
Freshman Y Meeting
The Y Cabinet is holding a meet
ing in the Carnegie Union on Wed
nesday, June 9, at 7:30. All fresh
men and upperclassmen are urged to 
attend. The speaker will be Dr. Jar
vis Cotton from the Waverly Presby
terian Church.
Diggin The Disks
By Dick 
Lamplighters Serenade 
The Song Is You
Frank Sinatra (Bluebird)
A boon for Sinatra lovers, and 
who isnt, these sides were cut last 
summer before the recording ban. 
Disregard the studio band back
ground and just listen to him sing. 
By listening to these sides, it is 
easy to see why Frank is making 
such a big hit; you only wonder 
why it took so long for him to be 
discovered by the masses.
Honest Prices Faithful Promises
A Service You Will 
Appreciate
FORBES
CLEANING AND 
TAILORING CO.
4526 Forbes St.MA. 9728
Service Flags Honor 
Techites In Forces
At President Dohertys sugges
tion Carnegie Tech obtained the 
service flag which hangs in the entrace of Administration Hall to honnor the alumni and administrative 
officials of the school who are serv
ing in the armed forces. The flag 
was first shown at the December 
commencement and was later 
brought to Administration Hall, 
where it now can be seen. The nu
merals, 1784, on the large blue star 
reperents all the men and women 
graduates, students, and school of
ficials who are on active duty. On 
the smaller gold star is the number 
17 which is the number of Tech 
men listed as killed or missing in 
action. As soon as word is receiv
ed of a death or of a man missing, 
the numbers on the gold star are 
changed. The numerals on the large 
star are changed every month.
Sometimes a man who is listed 
as missing in action turns up in a 
prison camp  in that event the 
number on the gold star must be 
changed. Lieutenant Robert Rus
sell was reported missing in the 
Philippines; later he turned up in 
a prison camp in Japan; and on 
Sunday, May 30, word was received 
that he died in the Japanese prison.
Mrs. Yon, Assistant Dean of 
Women thought it fitting that the 
women students should be recog
nized by a separate service flag. The 
girls in the Costume Economics De
partment, under the direction of 
Miss Josephine Richards, made a 
silk service flag. This flag was first 
displayed at the May commence
ment and will soon be hung just in
side the main entrance of Mar
garet Morrison. It also will be in the 
Arts College part of the time. There 
are over fifty Tech women serving 
in the WAACS, WAVES, SPARS,
Revision of The White Book
The Carnegie publications com
mittee recently announced the revi
sion of the Carnegie White Book, 
the students book of regulations. 
It was the opinion of the committee 
that the old book, which was dessigned for use under, the provious 
system of two semesters a year, was 
entirely inadequate to meet the de
mands of the expedited program. 
Many of the changes will be of the 
utmost importance to the entire stu
dent body; hence it is highly ad
visable that everyone procure a 
copy at the Registrars Office in two 
weeks, when the new issue will ap
pear.
ARMY MEN
Complete Selection of 
ARMY ACCESSORIES
SHIRTS BELTS TIES 
PANTS SOCKS
Overseas Hats Garrison Caps 
At Popular Prices
Leonards Mens Shop
Oakland Cor. Foi twood St.
5 minutes walchool
