The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 36. No. 14CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OP TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, JANUARY 12, 1943
Tech Students Offered 
Courses In Navigation 
At Buhl Planetarium
A plan giving students of Car
negie Institute of Technology an 
opportunity to take four evening 
courses in navigation at the Buhl 
Planetarium has been approved by 
the Curriculum Committee of the 
College of Engineering to go into ef
fect immediately. Those enlisted in 
the Army Air Corps and the Navy 
V-programs are especially urged to 
enroll in this schedule, but any stu
dent will be permitted to substi
tute units in these Planetarium 
courses for a like number of units 
in either E or C courses. All stu
dents who attain passing grades will 
be given Carnegie Tech scholastic 
credit.
The courses are as follows: Dead 
Reckoning, Celestial Navigation I, 
Celestial Navigation II, and meteorContinued on page'7
Alumnus Repays Tech 
With Sizeable Gift
Evidence of esteem of a Tech 
graduate for his Alma Mater is the 
following letter received from Mr. 
Forrest Martell, Engineering 22.
One must consider that the ap
proximate cost of instruction for 
Engineering and Arts students is 
$700 per year, only $400 of which is 
actually paid by the student. This 
means that the school must pro
vide the remaining $300 through 
endowment funds and various other 
monetary sources. In this event, Mr. 
Martells letter can readily be un
derstood.
December 30, 1942. 
Carnegie Institute of 
Technology
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 
Gentlemen:
Enclosed please find check 
for $1,000.00 to apply on En
dowment Fund or whatever 
fund  which serves the best in
terests of Carnegie Tech.
I have long felt that the tui
tion paid by me when attend
ing school was much less than 
the cost of instruction. In this 
connection I would appreciate 
your letting me know the esti
mated cost of instruction per 
student for years 1920-22, also 
cost of tuition for those three 
years. It is my purpose to re
pay at least the difference in 
these sums. What th school has 
given me in increased earning 
power I shall probably never 
repay but hope I can at some 
time in the future establish a 
small scholarship.
I have had my own general 
contracting business for the 
past seven years starting with 
money borrowed on my insur
ance. At present I have joined 
forces with another contractor 
and have a $2,500,000 Naval 
Training Center under contract 
in addition to other smaller con
tracts.
Sincerely,
FORREST MARTEIA #22.
War Fund Pledges Due
Mr. Kent Schaeffer, Director of 
the United War Fund Drive at 
Carnegie Tech, announces that all 
Student War Fund Pledges 
should be paid by January 15, 
1943. All students who have not 
already paid their pledges will 
please bring their money to the 
Cashiers office, Administration 
Hall, No. 106.
Status of Advanced Corps Students 
Announced By ROTC Department
Student Council To 
Consider Proportional 
Representation Toni te
The business before Student 
Council for the next few weeks 
should draw the interest of every 
alert Techian. This business is the 
revision of the Councils by-laws, to 
cnform with the new Constitution 
ratified by the Student body last se
mester. Although the Constitution 
called for few major changes in the 
existing by-laws, since the by-laws 
are open for change it is felt by 
most of the student body, that a 
more democratic method of elect
ing Council members should be pro
vided for.
There are only two alternatives to 
the present majority system of elec
tions, and they are the Plurality 
Plan, and the Proportional Repre
sentation Plan. It is the latter of 
these two Plans which all factions 
of our Student government concur 
on. The only debate may arise from 
the sponsors of different variations 
of the basic P. R. plan.
The reason for the introduction of 
the P. R. plan is that all concerned 
feel it would allow the election of 
a Council more representative 
of the Student body as a whole, 
rather than one small minority. This 
end will be achieved through the 
mathematical intricacies of this ad
mirable plan, which by the use of 
a quota (similar to a percentage) 
arrangement can forstall the organ
ized minoritys control of an elec
tion.
Some of the changes directly nec
essitated by the new Constitution 
and which will be suggested for in
corporation in the by-laws are as 
follows:
(1) The new Constitution elim
inated the School Senates. These 
were hangovers from the late Twen
ties, when they were functioning 
bodies. However, in order to allow 
the continued functioning of the ad
mirable Margaret Morrison Senate 
by-law will be introduced permit
ting the establishing of IntraSchool governing bodies as option
al, with the Student Councils ap
proval.
(2) Also in order to keep the 
Council in closer contact than other
wise possible, a Council representa
tive will be sent to each functioning 
Senate.
(3) A few changes will be made 
in the types and duties of the Com
mittees, which have already been 
named in the Constitution.
Rev. Jarvis Cotton To 
Speak At Chapel Today
The Reverend Jarvis M. Cotton,
D. D., Minister of the Waverly Pres
byterian Church, will be the 
guest speaker at Todays Chapel, 
to be held at 11:30 in the Little The
ater of the Fine Arts Building. The 
subject of his address is to be The 
Supremacy of Jesus, a fitting re
minder of the importance of spirit
ual guidance in a world at war. 
This is in line with the President of 
the United States declaration nam
ing last week as a Week of Prayer.
Dr. Cotton graduated from Mary
ville College in Tennessee and the 
Western Theological Seminary in 
Pittsburgh. He was in the Student 
Army Training Corps during the 
last war. For the past nine years he 
has been affiliated with the Waverly 
Presbyterian Church, and is also an 
instructor at the Western Theolog
ical Seminary.
In addition to a talk by Dr. Cot
ton, the Chapel Choir, lead by Rob
ert Druma Senior in the Music 
Departmentwill sing Ave Verum by Mozart, and Janet Stang 
will play the Organ Prelude, con
sisting of selections from Men
delssohns Second Sonata, and 
Bachs Prelude.
Tech ROTC Department 
Given Excellent Rating
A general rating of excellent, 
the highest authorized by the War 
Department for an R. O. T. C. unit, 
was conferred by the War Depart
ment on the R. O. T. C. Regiment 
at Carnegie Institute of Technology 
following a recent inspection, ac
cording to word received from4 the 
Headquarters Third Service Com
mand by President Robert E. Do
herty.
The officers and enlisted person
nel of the Tech unit were commend
ed on their ability, training, and dis
cipline, in the report, and the train
ing program was referred to as es
pecially effective in regard to mili
tary courtesy and morale.1
R. O. T. C. students who are dis
turbed by the swarm of rumors 
which are traveling around campus 
about their status with the Army 
may be relieved to hear the fol
lowing statement given by the 
R. O. T. C. Department.
Juniors in the advanced corps 
will be called to active duty upon 
the initiation of the Army Specializ
ed Training Program at Tech. They 
will remain in school until the end 
of this semester, after which they 
will receive military training in re
placement centers in lieu of that 
normally given during the second 
year of the advanced course. After 
the successful completion of such 
training and the satisfactory term
ination of any further authorized 
instruction they will be sent to 
an appropriate Officers Candidate 
School. Upon successful completion 
of their course there, they will be 
commissioned in the Officers Re
serve Corps.
Senior R. O. T. C. students who 
are still in school will also be call
ed to active duty upon the initiation 
of the Army Specialized Training 
Program. They will continue in 
school until graduation provided 
graduation occurs prior to June 30, 
1943. They will be detailed to their 
respective branch service schools 
and will be commissioned in the Of
ficers Reserve Corps in' the cor
rect branch upon completion of an 
appropriate basic course of instruc
tion of three months duration.
At present, there is no definite in
formation concerning students en
rolled in the basic course of the 
R. O. T. C.
I. F. Council To Receive 
Rond From War Drive
As a result of their work in last 
semesters War Stamp Campaign, 
the Interfraternity Council will re
ceive the $25 war bond purchased 
by the combined organizations on 
campus. I. F. Council sold approxi
mately one-sixth of the war stamps 
bought by the students and faculty. 
The total sales for the student drive 
conducted two days a week by each 
organization from the prow of the 
U. S. S. Tech in Industries Hall, 
was $1200, which in the opinion of 
Dean Murphy, was quite good con
sidering the limited coverage.
This idea of alternating watches 
at the U. S. S. Tech, originated by 
Lucille Rosenfeld, will be used dur
ing this semester. Frances Felthouse is the new chairman of the 
War Savings Committee of Defense 
Council.
Employment Notice
The Employment Office requests 
that all students who obtained work 
over the Christmas holidays make a 
report as soon as possible. This ap
plies to all types of jobs whether 
or not obtained through this of
fice.

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, JANUARY 12, 1943
Zditva' A'uncUcU'i
On Winning The Peace
For some time it has been the policy of the Tartan to keep to a min
imum the editorial discussion of off-campus matters and to confine the 
scope of the editorials to those matters which directly affect the immedi
ate life of the students. However, recent events have brought these two 
subjects together to such an extent that they are now one and the same 
thing. Accordingly the Tartan will expand its coverage to include edi
torial comment on national and international topics of interest to the stu
dent body.
By the time this article appears in print, President Roosevelts stateof-the-nation speech will probably have been commented on by everyone 
from Raymond Graham Swing to Bob Burns. Adding our small voice to 
this Babel of comments, we would like to point out one significant para
graph of the speech.
In Unity There Is Strength
In this paragraph, the President said, Today the United Nations are 
the mightiest military coalition in history . . . Bound together in solemn 
agreement that they themselves will not committee acts of aggression or 
conquest against any of their neighbors, the United Nations can and must 
remain united for the maintenance of peace by preventing any attempt 
to rearm in Germany, in Japan, in Italy ... This statment indicates the 
line of thought being followed in the post-war planning now being done in 
Washington. This planning was indicated in Vice-President Wallaces re
cent much-discussed speech, and it was revealed in detail by INS State De
partment reporter, Kingsbury Smith, in his article, The American Plan for 
a Reorganized World, in the current Readers Digest (condensed from the 
American Mercury.)
Convinced that the only way to maintain peace permanently is to be 
prepared to enforce it, the Administration plans to police the world as well 
as feed, house and clothe great areas of it. The plans rest on the basic 
idea that the countries that now form the United Nations shall form the 
organization of a Better World Order, which will have two main objec
tives: To maintain peace through the compulsory disarmament of the 
Axis powers and the policing of the world. To make membership in the 
association so beneficial that no nation can afford to remain outside. It is 
hoped that eventually all nations, including the present Axis powers, will 
become members.
Security Offered *
To all member nations will be offered economic benefits, including a 
system of open trade, and also politcial security against agression will be 
guaranteed. In return, member nations must guarantee their citizens the 
four freedoms, settle international disputes by arbitration and agree to 
drastic armaments limitation.
This brief synopsis doesnt do justice to the plans which show evidence 
of the excellent work typical of Cordell Hull and his department. As Pres
ident Roosevelt said, There are cynics and skeptics who say that it can
not be done, but it can and must be done. The only thing that would 
prevent the success of the program would be our thinking that it wont 
work. All we have to fear is fear itself. We will have to pay a high 
price in taxation and in our standard of living for this experiment of at
tempting to make this world a better place in which to live. It will be cer
tainly less costly, however, than the disturbance of a world war every 
twenty years.
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the 
staff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are pot 
to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh, Pa.
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2600  PHONE SCHENLEY 4557
TD FOR NATIONAL ADVCRT'SINO BY . ,,   -- _ ,,vr -L* t *  c  i After Office Hours CallNational Advertising Service, Inc. Editor-in-chief sr qr7College Publisher* Representative fcditor in Chief.............................SC. 9887
420 TheCarn hgit niA prlvt nt st Business Manager.........................BR. 4759
Caicfo  uradrn  Los AoiLt  ohA fhAICIr
Entered as seeona-ciass matter In tlie Pittsburgh Post Office under the Act of March 3, 1879. 
Published weekly during school year, except holidays and examination periods.
Subscription Price *1.10 per year.
Editor-in-Chief .............................................................. Melvin H. Snyder, Jr.
Business Manager........................................................................ Wilbur Thomas
Managing Editor .............................................................................. Jeanne King
ISSUE EDITORS
Managing Editor ..................................................................................Dave Neuss
News Editor .................................................................................... Gerry Edelson
Feature Editor ....................................................................................Elaine Levin
Sports Editor ...........................................................................................Don French
Headline Editor .............................................../..........................Helena Aronson
Charge of Rewrite ..............................................................................Louisa Saul
Copy Editors.................................Walt Darby, Ed Goldstein, T. J. Harmony
Circulation Manager ..................................................................................................
Reporters: Natalie Nathan, Lucille Schulberg, Geri Racusin, Mort Cohn, 
Aron Beck, Norma Caplan, Sidney Gerhardt, Allen P. Golden, Adeline 
Herlick, Marty Jacobs, Bill Kolb, Iris Kwall, Lois Marks, Jeanne Norris, 
Lola Patton, Rhea Rothman, Dorothy Rutkin, Alen Schneider, Alice Sofis, 
Bob Gillespie.
Business Staff; Martha Wagman, Jerry Jacobs, Jay LevinthaI, Lawrence 
Schutzer.
CASUALTY LIST
With these ominous words, the Tartan prints its first list of former stu
dents who have been killed or are missing in the line of duty. The facts 
and dates we give whenever available.
Ensign Philip H. Arbogast, E38 Frank D. Mortlock, E33
Lost at sea; May 6, 1942 Missing in Philippines
Lt. G. Paul Bright, U. S. N. E34 Lt. Louis G. Maslener, Jr., E40
Killed in action on Gaum Island Killed in action
Lt. John N. Comuntzis, E36 Ensign Michael Saska, E42
Missing in the Philippines Killed in action; South Pacific
Lt. R. L. Herpich, E41 Ensign Chas. E. Spry, A41
Killed in plane crash; July 30, 42 Drowned; August 6, 37
Capt. Frank Mandell, E33 Ensign Frank W. Swartz, E37
Reported killed in Solonoms Died from wounds; Poona, Ludia
iftlAN VoVl.36N
(Editors Note: That annoying little fellow. End man On the Senior Fence
continues to make his rounds of the campus and this week we find that he surpassed 
himself by catching up with the President of Student Council.)
We were awed considerably yes- Military Secrets terday, when we found our humble
Latest word on enlistments is person crossing the threshold of the 
that, enlistment of college students Student Council offices over in Carwho have not passed their eight- negie Union. Not having had any
eenth birthday will be accepted in experience in these environs, the
the present V-l program of the clatter of the typewriters, and the
Navy until March 15, 1943. Men in ominous clicking of the adding mathis age group are also acceptable chine nonplussed us to the extent 
for enlistment in the Marine Corps that our first impulse was to turn 
Reserves. Basic ROTC students in anc* ^eethis group may enlist in either of we were determined. We
these services. were determined to talk with Bob
Of note to Enlisted Reservists inGalbraith, Council President. Draw, ing on our last ounce of energy and, the army is the announcement of same time, pulling our person
the acceptance of certain transfers. Up to its entire five feet two inches,
Members of the Army Enlisted Re- we announced our intentions to the
serves, including C. P. T. students, nearest desk. Miss Betsy Beall, ocmay apply for transfer to the Air cuPant of the desk and Secretary to~ . . . ,. * the Council, pointed out the victimCorps Reserves for Aviation Cadet , , . , ,  r . ,, ...f . A . , at his desk over in the corner of theTraining. Army reservists who are ,
Juniors or Seniors in Electrical En-  '
gineering or Electronic Physics, s we drew near the desk, we
may transfer to the Electronics snaPPed a quick photo and found
Training Group, Office of the Chief h[m toJbe a rather Peasant fellow,Signal Officer about five feet seven inches, dressed
with careful Theta Xi finesse, and 
r' *1 Hyf  * possessing all of the poise and dig-L-OUllCll imnutes nity of his office. Getting to the
The meeting was called to order at bottom of things, we found that he
7:30 p. m. hailed from the wilds of Tulsa,
Absent: Messrs. Jones, Emberg, Gold- Oak., and had come to Carnegie
berger, Heller, Shewitz, ReUacher White- with the old do Qr die Wanted to
side, Wolff, La vie, Martin and Thompson __, 
and the Misses Carlock, Carver, Gehrett,  0 a Sd technical school.
Zonge, McKee, and Skeehan. Bob told us that he was a memCOMMITTEE REPORTS ber of O. D. K., Scabbard and Blade,
Mr. Galbraith appointed the following the swimming team, and chief ex
committee chairmen. ponent of the Theta Xi bull session
Publications, M^Rose. committee. Well, Mr. Pres., what do
Elections, Mr. Sher. you thmk of your new job? Quoth
Social, Mr. Wolfe. he, spinning around in his swivel
Special, Miss Zonge. chair, Its great; but of course,Points and Keys, Mr. Whiteside. 1 . +i ___,. , , ,Assemblies, Mr. Culbertson. , an<| at the same time he turned on
Permanent Decorations, Mr. Reisacher. his best academic manner, it will
Council Representative on C. I. T. De- take a little time to organize
fense Committee, Mr. Hovis. things.
The remaining appointments will be 4
made next week. In the absence of a r . _
quorum these appointments could not be limfceO FuflO I OtdlS
approved.
Publications Figures on the outcome of the reMr. Rose read a letter from Ted Neiren- cen^ United War Fund drive on the
berg in which he resigned his position of Tech campus have been announced.
Business Manager of the TARTAN, the As a result of the efforts of various
new business manager to be Wilbur workers in classroom appeals, 1,504Thomas. This resignation and appoint- - n T m ,ment must be approved by the Publica- students of C. I. T. have contributed
tions Committee and Student Council be- $1,673.21. The faculty and adminfore taking effect. istration have pledged $5,003 to
OLD BUINESS make a total of $6,676.21 as Techs
Mr. Galbraith reported that the revi- response to the urgent needs of the
sion of the Student Council By-Laws is Community Fund, U. S< O., andtaking place; they wdl be taken up at the ,u .i.., , ...next meeting. other affllia*ed war relief orgamzaAdjoumment. tions. . First installments on all
Respectfully submitted, pledges are expected at the CashELIZABETH BEALL, Secretary. iers Office on or before January 15.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, JANUARY 12, 143THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
WAAC learning lins tasting
WAAC Draitsmi
U. S. Army Announcement
w*nett ut
WAAC Laboratory Technician
WAAC PAY SCALE
Officer*
Director 
Asst. Director 
Field Director 
1st Officer 
2nd Officer 
3rd Officer 
enrolled Members 
Chief Leader 
1st Leader 
Tech. Leader 
Staff Leader 
Technician, 3rd Grade 
Leader
Technician, 4th Grade 
Jr. Leader
Technician, 5th Grade 
Auxiliary, 1st Class 
Auxiliary y
Equlv. Hank 
Colonel 
Lt. Colonel 
Major 
Captain 
1st Lieutenant 
2nd Lieutenant
Bate Monthly Pay 
$333.33
291.67
250.00
200.00
166.67 
150.00
Master Sergeant 
First Sergeant 
Tech. Sergeant 
Staff Sergeant 
Technician, 3rd Grade 
Sergeant
Technician, 4th Grad 
Corporal
Technician, 5th Grade 
Private, 1st Class 
Private
To the above ore added certain allowances for quarters and subsistence where authorized.
$138.00
138.00
114 SO
96.00
96.00
78.00
T8.00
6.00
lour Army has scores of jobs in the WAAC for 
alert college women . .. jobs vital to the war . . . 
jobs that will train you for interesting new careers 
in the post-war world. And here is good news 
indeed  you may enroll now in the fast-growing 
WAAC and be placed on inactive duty until the 
school year ends. Then you will be subject to 
call for duty with this splendid womens corps 
and be launched upon an adventure such as no 
previous generation has known.
New horizons . . . new places and people . . . 
interesting, practical experience with good pay 
. . . and, above all, a real opportunity to help 
your country by doing essential military work for 
the U. S. Army that frees a soldier for combat 
duty. These are among many reasons why thou
sands of American women are responding to the 
Armys need.
You will receive valuable training which may 
fit you for many of the new careers which are 
opening to women, and full Army pay while 
doing so. And by joining now you will have 
excellent chances for quick advancement for, as 
the WAAC expands, many more officers are 
needed. Every memberregardless of race, color 
or creedhas equal opportunity and is encour
aged to compete for selection to Officer Candidate 
School. If qualified, you may obtain a commission 
in 12 weeks after beginning basic training.
Go to your WAAC Faculty Adviser for farther 
information on the list of openings, pay, and 
promotions. Or inquire at any U. S. Army 
Recruiting and Induction Station.
U. S. ARMY ff'a rom*?
RECRUITING AND INDUCTION SIRVICI
^OMENS j^RMY A IJXIIilARY ^ORPS

---------------------------------------------------

RODGERS
DAIRY STORES
MILK SHAKES
Made from Pure Whole Milk for 
only 10c
We Do Not Use Skim Milk.

NEAREST STORES LOCATED
-------AT------
3905 FOBBES STBEET
Near Bouquet Street
4619 CENTEB AVENUE
Near Craig Street
THE CABNEGIE TABTAN TUESDAY, JANUABY 12, 1943
THE PROGRESS OF A 
COMMUNITY 18 REFLECTED 
IN THE 
CHARACTER OF ITS BANKS 

MELLON 
NATIONAL BANK
MBMBBR FEDERAL DEPOSIT IMIUHANCI 
CORPORATION
First Westinghouse Students Graduate Carnegie Tech Blood Bank Effort
Westinghouse Scholarship winners congratulatedLeft to right: Victor B. Kuz
mich, Charles B. Merritt, Stanley A. Rosencrans, Mr. Robertson, John D. Horth, Louis 
G. Hauser, Dr. Doherty, Gilbert A. Treloar, Richard C. Wilson, Egon A. DeZubay, and 
Jack L. Bowers.
She gives a pint and saves a life! Louisa Saul, member of the Tartan 
Editorial Board, was one of the two hundred and fifty Tech people who 
donated their blood to the Red Cross Blood Bank.
250 Students, Faculty Members 
Contribute to Blood Bank Drive
WAR CALLS COME FIRST flC
... in peace and war
This emblem is familiar throughout the nation as the 
symbol of a well-trained team, integrated for service in 
peace or warThe Bell Telephone System.
1. American Telephone & Telegraph Co. coordinates 
all Bell System activities.
2. Twent v-one Associated Companies provide telephone 
service in their own territories.
3. The Long Lines Department of A. T. & T. handles 
long distance and overseas calls.
4. Bell Telephone Laboratories carries on scientific 
research and development.
5. Western Electric Co. is the manufacturing, purchas
ing and distributing unit.
The benefits of the nation-wide service provided by 
these companies are never so clear as in time of war.
By Dorothy Rutkin
The Red Cross blood bank mobile 
unit will pay its second visit to the 
Carnegie Tech campus on February 
8, 9, and 10. All persons who wish 
to give their blood a chance to cir
culate are requested to register in 
the Bureau of Recommendations on 
the first floor of Industries build
ing. It will be necessary for those 
who gave blood before to again reg
ister for this donation.
The students of Carnegie Tech 
surpassed all expectations in their 
response to the first blood bank 
drive. Two hundred and fifty mem
bers of the student body, the fac
ulty, and the administrative depart
ment each gave a pint of blood dur
ing the two-day stay of the mobile 
blood unit of the Red Cross on the 
Tech campus last week. In addition 
to these two hundred and fifty per
sons, about one hundred and fifty 
who wanted to give their blood 
could not do so in the short time 
that the Red Cross unit stayed on 
campus.
After the unit left, Red Cross 
authorities phoned Professor Vin
cent G. Parisi, chairman of the 
Blood Drive Committee, and thank
ed him for the wonderful coopera
tion given them at Tech. They told 
Mr. Parisi that it had been a pleas
ure to work with students who were 
only too ready to help in every way 
possible, and commended him upon 
the efficiency with which the drive 
was carried out. The cooperation of
the faculty, and especially of Mrs. 
Norman H. Dawes and Miss Gene 
Carr, a student in the secretarial 
department, assisted Mr. Parisi 
greatly.
Because so many students were 
unable to give their blood, and be
cause most of the students who did 
give it expressed a desire to donate 
again as soon as they are able to do 
so Professor Vincent G. Parisi has 
arranged to have this mobile unit 
come back to the Tech campus.
Those who were giving blood for 
the first time felt a bit squeamish 
when they appeared for their ap
pointments. They found however, 
that it was really a simple proced
ure, and most of them said they will 
be only too glad to volunteer ag&in 
when the unit returns. One faculty 
member looked around the room 
while his blood was being taken and 
was struck by the similarity be
tween the collection center and a 
field hospital, with its twelve tables, 
nine rest beds, doctors, nurses, and 
nurses aides.
The blood drive was conducted by 
the Blood Bank Committee, a 
branch of the Carnegie Tech War 
Committee, of which Dr. Martin P. 
Chworowsky is chairman. Mr. Paisi wishes to thank the members of 
the student body, the faculty, and 
the administrative department who 
helped to make the blood drive a 
success.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, JANUARY 12, 1943THE CARNEGIE TARTAN5
SKI BO SPORTLIGHT
Insight On Hoopsters 
By Don French, Sports Editor
FIRST STRING SOPHOMORES
NOTE: This is the first of a series of articles to be written on the vari
ous varsity and intramural sports represented on campus. The purpose of 
those articles is to attempt to awaken the interests of the student body in 
the field of sports by presenting a more inside and personal aspect of the 
various sports and their participants.
This weeks sportlight is centered on our revived and rejuvenated 
hoopsters who have apparently risen above their many ignominious de
feats of the last few seasons and who now .present a formidable team which 
should be tough to reckon with.
In the last few years Coach Hannum has been under a severe handicap 
since a great precentage of men eligible to play have known little more 
than the bare fundamentals of the game. Although the first team has al
ways sported some outstanding players, its the combined effort that brings 
home the bacon and consequently Techs few colorful players coupled with 
the many greensters left much to be desired.
This season, however, Tech basketball got its first break in recent years 
due to the fact no really essential players graduated in the expedited pro
gram and many freshman with experience have helped bolster the aggre
gation. This has meant that the first team has had plenty of opposition 
in practice games with the result that the whole squad is primed to the 
severe opposition it meets in the scheduled games.
The players who will probably start today will be Brinn, Marck, DeBortoli, and Showman.
The fast breaking, versatile, captain, Dave Brinn, can always be count
ed on to show plenty of fight when he leads his teammates against the 
Panthers this evening. In fact he has so much energy that he has been 
dubbed the Human Propeller by his teammates. He is the best dribbler 
on the squad, has no set shots but shows up best under the basket.
The other forward and the big threat on the squad is George Marck. 
Hes a very fast, deceptive ballplayer and has a deadeye for the basket. He 
has perfect temperment, his only fault being defensive weaknesses and a 
wild streak occasionally. Hes definitely headed for stardom since he is 
the type of player that cant be consistently stopped. When attending DeWitt Clinton High School in New York, Marck was a substitute on the 
squad, never being good enough for the first team. When he came to Tech 
his ambition was to show his former coach that he could really play basket
ball and obviously enough, he has more than proved his ability.
Only a sophomore, but holding down the regular job at center, is 
George Meyer. He captained last years Freshman team, but played none 
of the second semester due to probation difficulties. An alumnus of Cen
tral Catholic High School, he is very quiet and mannerly off the floor, but 
in action hes a hard fighter. Unfortunately, he has a pair of bad legs due 
to injuries received in high school football, however he is in excellent con
dition. His teammates call him Ears because they claim those organs 
are quite prominent but he doesnt mind the nickname.
Holding down one of the guard positions for the Skibos is Bob DeBortoli. He is a tremendous defensive player, and one of the best rebound 
men in the district even though he is not very tall. Although he isnt too 
good a shot from the outside hes always good in a pinch. DeBort is 
considered by close observers to be one of the best five players in this 
district and by far the best all around man on the Tech team. Incidently, 
he is president of the Phi Kappa Fraternity. In the social world Bob is 
said to be a woman-hater and in the classroom an efficient sleeper.
Although Frank Showman is noted for his display of temperment, he 
is one of the squads real stars. He is one of the best all-around men on 
the team. He played forward last year but was shifted to guard this year 
due to his stamina, his ability to guard well, and his adaptness at grabbing 
rebounds and getting the ball back into offensive play. Frank is a happy 
go lucky fellow who can usually be found in or near Skibo.
Intramurals Resume; 
Citcom Displays Power
Since school has again started, in
tramurals have assumed their place 
as a major school activity. Last 
week eight games were played in 
the league. Some of these games 
being close while others were over
whelming victories. From the spirit 
and fight displayed by all the teams, 
it is evident that the boys are really 
putting their hearts into the game.
The DUs opened the week by de
feating the Betas 27 to 20. Had it not 
been for Hanover, DU scoring ace, 
who accumulated thirteen points 
during the game, the victory would 
not have been so easily won. The 
Citcom powerhouse rolled over 
Henderson Hall and walloped them 
51 to 21. From all indications Cit
com appears to be the team to beat.
Pictured above are (right) George Meyer and (left) George Marck, two firststringers headed for stardom.
Tartans Battle Pitt Tonight; 
Quintets Are Evenly Matched
In all their encounters they have 
overcome their opposition and de
feated their opponents so decisive
ly that there is little question of 
their superiority on the basketball 
court. The SAEs, once a formida
ble team, have lost their last two 
games. In a fast moving and free 
fouling game, the Delts downed 
their neighbors, 34-16. Spider 
Drabers tossed in twelve points to 
cinch the win for his team. In a 
close game the Clyde Street boys 
downed last years champs to win 
their first victory of the season. The 
scoring was well divided among the 
players on the Kappa Sig team. 
Kleffman of the SAEs was high 
score with ten points, but even this 
could not give his team victory, the 
final score being 29*25.
The Sigma Nus are rolling toContinued on Page 6
Tonight at 8:30 fireworks will go 
off in the gym as the Pitt Panthers 
invade Skibo for a cage tussle with 
Maxie Hannums red hot Tartan 
tossers.
Probable lineup for Tuesdays game: 
Pitt Tech
Lohmeyer, c. Marck, f.
Malarkey, f. Brinn, f.
Atman, f. Meyer, c.
Jones, g. DeBortoli, g.
Swacus, g. Showman, g.
Heading the welcome to Tech 
committee will be Captain Dave 
Brinn, Bob DeBortoli, Frank Show
man, George Marck and George 
Meyer. The team has been practic
ing a new defense to spring on the 
Panthers; Coach Maxie calls it a 
switching zone. Tech will play 
a 2-1-2 zone when the ball is going 
from side to side and when (or if) 
Pitt heads toward scoring territory 
the team goes automatically into a 
man-for-man defense.
Against earlier opposition Pitt 
used a fast break and a very aggres
sive charging defense. This worked 
a miracle in its last attempt and 
Pitt crushed West Virginia by fif
teen points. Standout for the vis
itors has been one Ted Malarkey, 
fast-breaking speedster; his help 
comes from teammates Artman, 
Lohmeyer, Lattagliata, Swacus, 
Carlson and Zernich.
Tonights battle will be hard 
fought all the way since the teams 
are of the same size and both very 
fast. The downtown sport scribes 
quote the odds at 50-50, the first 
time theyve been tagged so since 
1936-37 when Carnegie was tops in 
the eastern collegiate ball and hoop 
business. Last season the Plaid 
players pulled the biggest upset of 
the year in this district by slapping 
a 56-46 pasting on Doc Carlsons 
Cats. Gone from that team are Hen
nessey, Patton, Kirk and Kaplan.
To date Tech has split in two en
counters, conquering Waynesburg 
by 58-53 and dropping a heartbreaker to the Case Scientists by a 
52-50 count, Sophomore George 
Marck was the big guns in these 
fights, parting the meshes for 32 
points; Brinn follows with 26. Stal
wart pivot and board play by 
Ears Meyer in the first two games 
makes him the man to upset the Pitt 
applecart, while DeBortoli and
Showman will do the honors in the 
rough and tumble department when 
the going gets tough. First in line of 
shock troops will be Hugh Smith 
who got his go sign from the medics 
and has been shining in rehearsals 
lately. On the other end of the 
bench, coach has Kelly, Culbertson, 
Sherman, Luther, Cogswell, Neleson, Pakura and Harry Smith over
anxious to tangle with the Panther.
Swim Team In Shape 
For Coming Season
With a whole semesters practice 
behind them, the Tartan swimming 
team looks forward to the end of 
this week when they have their first 
competition with Oberlin on Friday 
and then with Penn State on Sat
urday. The boys have been plugging 
hard ever since the first of Septem
ber; incidently, their swims carry 
them over a mile each night.
Coach Risedorph has had the 
good fortune to find new flesh to add 
to the skeleton of last years team. 
Christ Smith and Stu Lee will be 
back this year to toss their bodies 
into some pretty fancy positions be
fore striking the water. Swimming 
the back stroke along with the vet
eran Sarosday brothers, Aurelius 
and Louis, are two good freshman 
hopefuls, Ralph Evman and Ralph 
Berkowitz. Bobbing up and down 
in the breast stroke this year will be 
veteran Roger Beal plus Freshman 
B^l Ferguson who has had experi
ence swimming for Wichita High 
before coming to Tech, and Paul 
Gibian who swims in the conven
tional manner.
Swimming the free style dis
tances will be this years captain, 
John Dowd plus veterans Kerwin 
Spangler, Bob Galbraith, Otto 
Magel, Bob Taber and Jim Voelz. 
Although it is not definite as yet it 
looks as thought the sprints will be 
left up to freshmen only. Herb Venzer, Harry Donahue, John Fleck 
and Brion Foulke are possible can
didates for the job. Deserving of 
mention is also Tom Willoughby, 
who is senior manager this year.
The team shows promise and this 
coming week end will tell the tale 
pretty well as to how the team will 
fare during the rest of the season.

---------------------------------------------------

6THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, JANUARY 12, 1943
Techites Break Even 
In First Two Games
By John Lindberg
On December 19, 1942, the Carne
gie Tartans opened the current 
basketball season by engaging the 
Waynesburg Yellow Jackets on 
their home floor, the Carnegie Gym
nasium. Showing a flashy and 
quick-striking offense, the lads of 
Skibo proceeded to show the Yellow 
Jackets some first rate basketball, 
and rolled over them to the tune of 
58-53. At the very start of the game 
the Tartans began to show their 
superiority, took the game in their 
hands, and were never seriously 
threatened. The team worked to
gether as a unit, and many times a 
Techite would break under the 
basket with lightening speed to be 
fed the ball with equal speed and 
to drop the ball in the basket for a 
score.
George Marck, star sophomore, 
was the high scorer for both teams, 
tallying a total of 19 points. Note
worthy is the fact that this was the 
highest score a sophomore has ever 
made in his first varsity game in 
this district.
The following Saturday, Decem
ber 12, the Case Scientists journey
ed to Pittsburgh, where they en
countered our boys on the Tartan 
floor. In a real thriller and hairraiser, the Case men managed to 
nose out the Tartans by a score of 
52-50. The main trouble with the 
Skibos was that their defense weak
ened, and they permitted Case to 
score time and time again when no 
score should have been made. In ad
dition Case had the upper hand in 
height by a very definite margin, 
and this handicap showed itself 
mightily in recovering the ball from 
the back-board.
As for the team in general they 
are the hardest working squad Tech 
has had in a good number of years, 
and the spirit these lads are display
ing is good to see. As soon as their 
poor defense is improved, local root
ers are going to see some of the best 
basketball they have witnessed in 
a number of years. In fact, Coach 
Hannum has made the statement 
that these boys are capable of mak
ing a good showing of themselves 
in any type of competition.
Fort Pitt is the Place 
to Rent
TYPEWRITERS
* % Month
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
Intermurals Resumed
Continued from Page 5 
ward the championship of their 
league. Sparked by Johnny Childs, 
a freshman star of last year, the 
Sigma Nus have downed the Tau 
Delts and Phi Kaps to maintain the 
position at the head of League Two. 
In a close game the Sigma Nus 
eked out a 28-27 victory over the 
Phi Kaps. Childs was tied with 
Purtell of the Phi Kaps for high 
scoring honors, both boys having 
twelve points to their credit. The 
Theta Xis defeated the ATOs 28- 
17 while the Zoot Suits forfeited to 
McGill Hall.
4C ARE GIST UOPS. AP.H
And tAles
Chicago Teachers Parody 
Blues In The Night
At the present time the DUs, Citcom (A), and the Sigma Nus ap
pear to be the teams to beat.
War brings many songs. Some of 
them survive; others do not. Not a 
new songs, but a new turn cooked 
up by students at Chicago Teachers 
college parodies the popular Blues 
in the Night. The new Version, 
called Blues in Berlin was printed 
in the Chicago newspaper, the 
Tempo.
My fuehrer done tol me,
When I was in Munich,
My fuehrer done tol me,
Hans.
A Russian will fall back, and give 
you the east front,
But when the winter snows come,
A Russians a two-face,
A worrisome thing, who leaves you 
to sing 
The blues in Berlin.
See the bombs a-fallin
Hear the blitzes callin
Goering! Oh, where is the luftwaffe?
We aint got no booties,
All we got is cooties.
Goebbels! Oh, typhus and black 
plague.
Die wehrmacht! Die wehrmacht!
A clickity-clack, and soon well be 
back.
With the blues in Berlin.
From Smolensk to Mozhaisk,
From Kiev to Lubin,
Wherever the panzers go.
Ive taken some big towns,
And made me some big talk,
But there is one thing I know,
A Russians a two-face,
A worrisome thing, who leaves you 
to sing 
The blues in Berlin.
. . . Associated Collegiate Press.
Lel's go Io
ISALY'S
MILK SHAKES 
BIG iCt CREAM CONES
KLONDIKES 
TASTT LUNCHES
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Allies
HEABTS AND FLO WEBS: This Christmas vacation was probably the most 
marryin period in Tech history. Not only did the Evelyn Thomas-Ray Salis
bury and the Barbara Kramer-Jack Shore nuptials come off as scheduled, but 
there was the surprise wedding of June Cooper and Cleo Bateman after a 
practically non-existent courtship. To confuse things even more, at the Judy 
Clark-Johnny Horth ceremony, Johnnys mother confronted Mary Pollis and 
Benny Lagueruela with You too? . . . And now we hear that Jo Loeffler 
has quit school and gone to South Carolina to marry her Bud Murphy (no 
relation to our Dean).
CUBRENT EVENTS: Billie Sommerfield is maintaining her reputation as
the Beta Belle. First she is seen at the Nixon with Jim Curry, and then goes 
home to find Chuck Lange and Ralph Martin who had been waiting there fbr 
her since noon . . . And it seems that Kappa Sig Brother Bill Buechler 
is carrying on where Rush Johnson left off with Anne Whitlinger. Especially 
now that George Huff has gone back to Yale. *
FRONT LINE FLASH:At the Parris 
Island training school for Marine Of
ficers, the trainees were given a pep 
talk the first day in which every third 
word was some form of eussin. Len 
Chotiner writes that he feels right at 
home!
WHAT SANTA BBOUGHT: And it
was mostly engagement rings! Wit
ness those of Doris Sterner from Bill 
Spangler, Weezie Phillips from Bob 
Schwerin, Mid Livingston from Jack 
Mangan, Margie King from Frank 
Martin, and Babs Griscoms from 
George Van Nort . . . Not to speak of 
the gals who got em from unTECHnical men, Ruth Kwall, Jean Hyde, 
Helen Pittock, Jean Robertson, Janet 
Cook, and Eileen Letchworth.
BUT JUST THE SAME Frannie 
Felthouse is pretty happy about hav
ing Fred Dolans Pi K A pin, and the 
same goes for Tassie Truxell and T. J. 
Harmany with their invitations to An. 
napolis June Week already.
THE ADVANTAGE OF TBAVEL: On
one of the football teams many trips 
Dick De Musey met Betty Williams, 
and now he spends every possible min
ute in New Castle . . . But as far as 
we can see the only thing Harriet 
Murdoch gained from her brief so
journ at Pitt was an engagement ring!
BEST STORY OF THE WEEK: On
Christmas Eve, Marion Davis receiv
ed an engagement ring from Andy 
Ritter whose father used to be min
ister of her Church. On the same 
night her brother, Roy, gave Shorty 
Campbell a ring too. It seems that 
Shortys father is now the minister of 
the same Church. Your reporter 
would be glad to give the name and 
address of this remarkable church to 
any desperate individual for a slight 
fee!
IMAGINE THEIB SUBPBISE when 
the electricians walked into Pug Aldersons kitchen and found her all 
alone, frenziedly heating milk bottles 
for the baby in the living room. Hon
est, its her little niece!
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
STUDENT 
MAGAZINE 
AGENCY
We handle all magazines 
Special Rates
SEE
Walter O. Darby, M*r. lohn T. Kelly, Asst. Mgr 
Boss Hall or Scobell HallC. I. T. P. O. C. L T. P. O.
Tech Campus of Tomorrow 
Shown in Architects Model
Approximately two thousand stu
dents pass the model of the Propos
ed Campus Plan at the front of In
dustries Hall each day, but how 
many of them stop to look at it? 
That model represents the hopes 
and dreams of the builders of Car
negie Tech, for the plan of the pres
ent campus buildings is incomplete. 
The plan was conceived by Associ
ate Architects Alfred Morton Githens and Francis Keally, and by 
Landscape Architect A. H. Brinkerhoff.
Those hopes and dreams seem un
certain and distant now, for every 
required building material is unob
tainable. According to Mr. Keck, 
Superintendent of Buildings and 
Grounds for Carnegie Tech, mate
rials are lacking even for the re
pair and upkeep of the present 
buildings. But these plans will 
have to wait for a more important 
eventthe successful completion of 
the present war.
Probably the first additions to be 
made will be a new library, an ad
ministration hall, and a new power 
plant. The present aged power plant 
is operating under difficulty arid 
shows many signs of wear. The 
planned library would be placed on 
Margaret Morrison Street close to 
the site of the hut. The Administra
tion hall would be built where t&e 
Commons building now stands. V
Besides these additions, the plans 
include the erection of an auditor
ium, a theater, a student activities 
building, a new womens dormitory, 
and a new gymnasium. Other im
provements will be an enlarged 
Tech Bowl, new tennis courts, and 
various small parking lots conven
iently placed around the school Still 
to be completed are Engineering 
Hall and Margaret Morrison Car
negie College.
Although Carnegie Tech can now 
boast one of the finest campuses in 
the United States, these additions 
and improvements would no doubt 
be considerable assets. With them 
Tech could offer even better facili
ties and opportunities for education.
HOTEL WEBSTER 
HALL
Available For
PRIVATE PARTIES 
BANQUETS 
SWIMMING PARTIES
MAyflower 7700 
Fifth near Mellon Institute

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, JANUARY 12, 1943THE CARNEGIE TARTAN7
r ILL >
TAKE CAMELS 
ANY TIME! THEY'RE 
THE REAL THINGPLENTY FLAVORFUL
IL> TAKEC r
co 1 the 
be Marine
' Guard, tj 
ls Camel. 
ies record;
and Cante
tbe Coa. 
ciffarette
acfuai S 
^Xchan&f>
TURKISH & DOMESTIC; ^ BLEND RCIGARETTES
Navigation Course
Continued, from page 1 
ology for Navigators. Two units of 
credit will be given for each of the 
first three courses, and four units 
for the one in meteorolgy. Each is 
of ten weeks duration. Chief in
structor for the School of Naviga
tion is Dr. Fitz-Hugh Marshall of 
the Planetarium staff.
Students who are interested in 
enrolling for any of the navigation 
courses are requested to consult 
Mr. Charles Wangeman, Head of the 
Bureau of Placements, 155-B, Indus
tries Hall.
articles at the bookstore. And so I 
spent the rest of the three hour lab 
borrowing supplies from flusher 
friends in order to trace some 
strange looking objects that looked 
like cross sections of moonlight on 
a glass-bottom boat as portrayed by 
Salvidor Dali in his Snow Storm on 
the Sahara.
Draft used to be something sim
ple, like leaving the window open 
too long or saying Bon Voyage to 
my favorite brother. But not any 
more. Draft is a word which, with
out the r, describes the condition 
of a Maggie Murph enrolled in En
gineering Drawing and Descriptive 
Geometry. Cest la guere!
IN THE ARMY
say:
HAY BURNERS for cavalry horses 
"jugHEAD' for the Army mule 
CHICKENS for the eagle insignia of 
a colonel
CAM E L for the Army mans favorite 
cigarette
they
S
W'ith .
**tr/C
COSTLIER TOBACCOS
fyosiecaii fa* 19439*UM2t&eAA "
January:
A million and a half Yankees will 
be fighting overseas and Adolph 
will be seeing Red. The snow will 
fall and there wont be any W. P. A. 
to remove it.
February:
Bread will go butterless; Tuesday 
will be meatless; and the weaker 
sex will be dateless. Trolleys will be 
the accepted and only means of 
transportation.
March:
The spring thaw will start; Joe 
Stalin will anxiously watch the 
groundhog, and Russia will keep 
marching. Americans will grunt, 
but hand over the income tax, plus 
Victory Tax, plus,plus . . .
April:
One million eight hundred thou
sand Yankees will be fighting over
seas, and Adolph will be seeing pur
ple.
May:
Flowers will bloom, birdies will 
sing, and band leaders will have 
forgotten all about White Christmas.
June:
Soldiers will keep getting mar
ried on furlough; dresses will be 
shorter and fewer; stockings will be
the non-run, non-snag, non-glam
our, bare-legged variety.
July:
Two million Yankees will be 
fighting overseas, and Adolph will 
be seeing green.
August:
Females will stop smoking and 
go in for football training; Hitler 
will plan his annual march to Stal
ingrad and the English will go on 
drinking their afternoon ersatz. 
September:
Women will continue to get 
housemaids knee; Kaiser will 
launch a ship every ten minutes; 
and gas will still be only a form of 
indigestion.
October:
Two and a half million Yankees 
will be fighting overseas, and 
Adolph will be seeing red, white, 
and blue.
November:
Thanksgiving will be just another 
working day. They will continue 
passing the ammunition in the Sol
omons.
December:
Three million Yankees will be 
fighting overseas and Adolph will 
no longer be. If were wrong, blame 
it on the fact that the crystal ball 
is made out of plastic.
Ind. Drafting Rooms 
Become Addition To M. M.
Timidly, I and my forty-nine 
chums approached Room 346 in In
dustries Hall wherein some ten 
thousand boys, also draftsmen with 
big ideas, greeted us with the fa
miliar two toned whistle. I began 
to vision myself draped over a 
drafting board with armies of men 
surrounding me and giving helpful 
suggestions on the scientific use of 
the triangle. But alak, alas, such 
was not to be my fate.
The bevy of femininity was herd
ed like liT lost sheeps into another 
drafting room entirely unenhanced 
by male charm except for two in
structors. By this time I was lit
erally quivering in my oxfords. I 
am no math wizard. The only thing 
I have in common with the engi
neers is the Beanery, and I cant 
draw a straight line even with a 
ruler. But I was consoled by the 
fact that forty-nine other girls were 
thinking these same thoughts. Make 
way, Mayview.
Our first assignment would have 
been very simple if I had been the 
Bank of England and fullback on 
the football team. We were asked 
to purchase approximately twenty

---------------------------------------------------

3THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, JANUARY 12, 19433The Carnegie plaid
Edward Macha Is Engineers 
Seeretarv-Couneil Treasurer Enjoyed By Many
Christmas Dance The Carnegie Plaid
Ed A. Macha, 43, who is the pop
ular'Secretary of the College of En
gineering, is this years Treasurer of 
Student Council as well as a mem
ber of the Plaid staff.
He is a graduate of Turtle Creek 
Union High School, Class of 1931. 
He distinguished himself as an hon
or student during each of his four 
years at high school and was a 
member of the Glee Club, Dramatic 
Club, Debating Team, Annual 
Board, and many other organiza
tions.
Upon graduation, he attended 
various depression and opportunity 
schools including the Westinghouse 
Technical Night School. In May of 
1934, he began his apprenticeship as 
a toolmaker and machinist at the W. 
A. B. Co., and the following year he 
enrolled in the Carnegie Tech even
ing school, taking the regular me
chanical engineering course. In 
1938, he graduated from the appren
tice course, and then became a tool 
and die designer. At present he is 
employed as an Industrial Engineer 
at the Westinghouse Electric plant 
at East Pittsburgh.
Ed participates in a wide variety 
of activities in addition to his work 
on council. He is one of five even
ing men in Pi Tau Sigma, national 
mechanical engineering honorary 
fraternity. This year he was the 
only evening student in the College 
of Engineering to be called to hon
ors by Phi Kappa Phi, national 
scholastic honorary fraternity. Phi 
Nu claims him as a member of its 
executive board, and he is an active 
member of Nu Sigma Alpha.
This is his eighth consecutive 
year on the campus, and in May of 
this year, he will receive his degree 
as Bachelor of Science in Mechan
ical Engineering. Good luck, Ed.
Outstanding Events 
Of The Past Semester
Combined election party eventu
ally successful in spite of few as
pirants . . . Enrollment dropped 
another fifty per cent as a result of 
present war conditions . . . Re
gardless of this drop, all of the 
scheduled dances were held, and, in
cidentally, were well attended . . . 
Share-the-ride program inaugurat
ed for the first time in the history 
of Carnegie Tech . . . Steve Marcinizyn, council president, lost his 
head, went off the beam, and got 
marriedand after all these years!
. . . New expedited program prov
ed successfulno more holiday 
headaches . . . Student council eas
ed eligibility rules to hold offices. 
Staff of the Plaid was the largest 
in many years  consequently ini
tiated a series of bowling parties 
. . . Nu Sigma Alpha continued its 
activities in a more central location 
the Carnegie Union . . . Phi Nus 
stag parties again proved successful
 ask Dal McKelway ... Ed 
Macha honored by Phi Kappa Phi 
. . . Bob Aungst received greetings 
from President Rooseveltexpects 
to join Uncle Sam on February first.
Crash Bang Down 
Goes Enrollment
War has hit the night school en
rollment with a real K. O. punch 
this semester. The enrollment this 
semester compared with the first se
mester was cut in half. The total up 
to January 8, 1943 is 772 as com
pared to 1,449 for the first semester 
at this time. The Vocational Col
lege being hit the hardest with a 
total of 215 (including Margaret 
Morrison students) against 456 the 
first semester. The evening College 
of Engineering figures are 752 last 
semester and 423 this semester. The 
Fine Arts enrollment dropped from 
242 to 134.
The decrease is due to the old 
trouble of late; tires, gas, overtime 
and armed services. The new clamp 
on pleasure driving should not ef
fect the night school students since 
it is excluded from pleasure driving. 
A large number of the night stu
dents have left for the services dur
ing our Christmas vacation, and a 
great many more are contemplating 
being inducted in the near future.
*7e V(4e ZJUto*
Dear Editor:
Can you help me out with a few 
answers? I have been attending 
Carnegie Tech for two years now 
and am wondering if it will be pos
sible to finish the semester. Will 
classes be stopped before that time? 
I some times think that I should 
join Uncle Sams ranks as a WAVE 
or a WAAC, rather than struggle 
along as a student.
The newspapers have one idea on 
the subject, school papers another, 
but no one really seems to know 
just how the matter stands.
Please try to help me and per
haps in this way you will be help
ing many other students. Maybe 
you arent sure either, but heres 
hoping! (Signed) M. W.
The Christmas Dance, held the 
weekend prior to first semester fin
als, certainly indicated that some 
students have easy minds, for the 
dance was well attended. Those 
present were in a typical festive 
mood because Old Mother Nature 
generously provided the snowy 
background, which, for a change, 
justified White Christmas. It was 
a gay sight indeed to see the gal
lants escorting the belles from snow 
encrusted automobiles (and street 
cars!)
For the first time in at least three 
years an orchestra new to Techs 
campus made its debut at a Christ
mas dance, and Jimmy Thompson 
really came out. Even the cronic 
complainers were pleased! Especial
ly appreciated were Jimmys fair 
ladies, who took all eyes away from 
decorations not easily ignored. A 
large white Christmas tree in the 
center of the dance floor provided 
an illuminated focal point around 
which all other decorations seemed 
to converge. Directly above, the 
renowned crystal ball swirled and 
cast out colored light beams in 
never ending showers.
The snowy weather didnt 
frighten the old bucks, for the 
chaperons and Steve Marcinizyn 
were all present. We caught Dean 
Warden smoking in the lobby of the 
dance floor, but he countered our 
attacks with information. Note fel
lows: it is now permissible to smoke 
at the entrance to the floor because 
of newly fire-proofed furnishings, 
howeverno smoking on the floor!
This Christmas dance has a re
newed councils faith in the future 
(and street cars) and more dances 
are being planned for the present 
semester.
Present War Schedule 
Has Student Approval
At last we have a war restriction 
of great value rather than just a 
sacrifice. Patriotism decress that 
we accept all restrictions cheerfully, 
but I accept one with appreciation. 
For five years I struggled through 
first semesters with serious expecta
tions of catching up during the holi
days. Yet I, like every one else, am 
but human, consequently, each year 
I returned to school worse off than 
before Christmas. My holiday cram
ming degenerated into mere wish
ful thinking. This year, however, 
things have been different. I enter
ed into holiday festivities With joy
ful shouts of unrestricted gleeI 
had taken my finals  and passed! 
Therefore, I hereby recommend that 
henceforth  war or no war  we 
should operate on an expedited pro
gram. It seems to me inconceiva
ble that the former schedule could 
ever appeal to a student who has 
been in school this year.
In emphasis, I hope that this sug
gestion will be brought to the at
tention of the faculty. If President 
Roosevelt can consider post war 
problems, so can we. Lets not get 
in a rutlets make progress!
Page edited by Evening acnool Students of Carnegie Institute of Technology. All views or opinions expressed in editorial column are not necessarily endorsed by the Editorial Board of the Day School staff.
Editor Nancy E. Lewis 
Associate Editor of Engineering Robert C. King 
Associate Editor of Fine Arts Marion Frost
Albert Flanders Mary Hensler Albert Kerstukos Robert Lenigan Joseph M. Rymar
StaffEdward A. Macha S. W. Marcinizyn D. Pettigrew, Jr. Pearl Pettola Robert Poznanski
Mary Jo Weber
*
The absence of Bob Lenigan and 
Jimmy Flaherty at school this se
mester is very obviousrumors 
have it that they are awaiting final 
notice from the Army . . . June 
Davidson has willingly been work
ing on the Plaidyou remember 
she attended Fine Arts last year 
. . . Uncle Sam, in his relentless 
search for talent, has called forth 
another of his nephews, Phil Boyle 
we sure will miss his able assist
ance around the Plaid . . . Take 
it easy fellows, that very lovely 
young lady with A1 Flanders on 
Registration night was none other 
than Betty Flanders who has decid
ed to make it a family affair . . . 
The kids in the Greeks on Mon
day night seemed to be having a 
high old timecould it be that they 
were all just too glad to be back at 
school? . . . Even the F. B. I. 
couldnt find the editor last Friday 
Santa must have kidnapped her 
please help us out, Mr. Hoover . . . 
Why was Harry Abrams asleep on 
a streetcar the other day?  Too 
much night life, Harry? . . . Too 
bad Jimmy McDonough hasnt come 
to any of the dances this term 
How about showing up on the 23rd, 
Jimmy? . . . John Hundertmark 
has the wrong ideahe helped dec
orate for the Xmas dance but never 
showed upMaybe Arthur Murray 
could give him lesson No. 6 . . . 
What girl (s) was known to be home 
on New Years Eve? . . . Marion 
(Arts) Frost painted the town red 
over the holidayswhere did she 
get Him? . . . Unfortunately that 
white Christmas tree at the dance 
was already claimed^Sorry, Nancy 
. . . Before income tax, the gang 
will gladly chip in on a new chapeau 
for A1 Flanders  You had better 
name that hat soon, Al, as it is 
really a character.
Working For An Insignia? 
Activities Need Support
The new semester is now well un
der way with this the first issue of 
the Plaid for 1943.
Anyone interested in working on 
the paper will be very welcome. It 
is edited every Friday evening in 
the Carnegie Union. The office is 
on the third floor and is exclusively 
for evening school students.
