Be At The Pep Rally Friday Night
Details On Page 12__rKTAN
VOL. 42No. 4CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OP TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1948
Dr. Work 
Dies After 
Brief Illness
He Served Students 
At Carnegie Tech 
In Many Capacities
Dr. William R. Work, assistant 
director of the College ef Engineering and Science, died Sunday 
night in Mercy hospital follow
ing a brief illness. He was 67 years 
old.
Dr. Work had served in the 
faculty and administration of Carpegie Tech since 1905 when he be
gan as a part-time instructor in 
mathematics.
Since > that time he has also 
served as an instructor in electric
al engineering, assistant professor, 
associate professor, professor and 
head of the department of elec
trical engineering, and chairman 
of the Freshman committee of the 
College of Engineering. In 1942 
he was appointed assistant direc
tor of the college.
Dr. Works World War I exper
ience as a member of the Committee on Education and Special
DR. WILLIAM R. WORK
Training or the War Department 
general staff, and his keen and 
personal interest in helping the 
students with their individual 
[Continued on page eight]
Homecoming plans hold attention of Tony Penfield of Delta Skull, 
Marilyn Gasche of Cwens, general chairman Lollie Anderson, Ger
ald Meyers of Dorm Council, and Robert Fulton of Citcom Clan. 
Scimitar is also working on Homecoming.* * * *
Elaborate Homecoming Plans 
Keep Many Organizations Busy
Dormitories And Fraternities To Be Decorated; 
First Public Ticket Sales Begin Tomorrow
Nearing completion this week are plans for the biggest and most 
all-embracing Homecoming celebration seen on this campus since 
pre-war days.
Representatives from all the organizations concerned have been 
meeting regularly to work out the final details of the program and 
other problems involved in planning the October 15-16 weekend.
Announcement of the opening of public ticket sales tomorrow 
morning reminded workers on the4 
several committees that the begin
ning of the big weekend is only 
little more than a week away.
However, most of the work has 
been completed and only a few 
tasks remain to be done.
Not intending to be outdone by 
the fraternities, men in the dor
mitories have given notice that 
they intend constructing house 
decorations as well, providing 
their contribution to the competi
tion.The committee chairmen, under 
the direction of general chairman 
Lolly Anderson, are: publicity,
Charles Koester; budget, Tom 
Hall; orchestras, Burt Epstein; 
tickets, Robert Fulton; decorations,
Robin Molny, George Readio, Wil
liam Knightly, and Ruth Jordan.
[Continued on page seven]
Cano Notice
The advertising staff of Cano, 
campus literary magazine, is 
seeking new members, especially freshmen. All those interest
ed are asked to attend a meeting in IH 132F at 4:30 this afternoon.
The Tartan Attempts To Print* 
All The News; You Can Help
Thorough Coverage Can Be Given Only When 
The Facts Are Submitted Well In Advance
I want to put a story in the Tartan.
The Tartan staff is constantly being approached by both stu
dents and faculty members who have news and announcements that 
should be published in the Tartan.
To serve them all effectively the+
Tartan must insist that a few sim
ple rules are followed. To make 
sure that an article will appear 
on a given Wednesday, the Tartan 
must have the information no 
later than the previous Friday.
Full coverage can be given only 
if the Tartan has all the facts.
Tartan reporters should be given 
full cooperation so that they may 
btain this coverage, but if an or
ganization is not contacted by a 
reporter it may assure itself of 
coverage by sending the story to 
the Tartan through intraschool mail.
' Suggestions of all kinds are, of 
O^urse, always welcomed.
Cano Will Make 
First Appearance 
Early Next Month
Cano,*CITs literary magazine, 
will make its first appearance of the new semester about November 
1. In variation of the usual pro
cedure, the printing will be done 
not by the school printing de
partment, but by an outside con
cern.
Editors of the publication have 
indicated that the forthcoming is
sue will be much improved.
Council Objects To 
High Cost Of Keys
No Decisions Are Reached; Final 
NSA Report Is Also Delayed
Compared with other schools, our system of awarding 
keys is pretty lousy, Councilman J. K. OHare said last week 
in the Council discussion of keys.
------------------------------------------------? Although it had been quite rou
tine up to that time, the first Council meeting of the year 
erupted into spirited discussion onFreshmen 
Take Exam 
Tomorrow
Cwens and Scimitars 
Will Enforce Rules 
At Traditions Test
All Freshmen will be 
placed squarely on the spot at 
4:30 tomorrow afternoon when 
he must appear at either 209 
or 218 EH to take the Tradi
tions Exam.
Members of Cwens and Scimi
tar will be posted at the entrances 
to both rooms to make sure that 
each freshman is wearing a dink. 
No freshman without a dink will 
be allowed to take the exam.
Cwens and Scimitars will also act as monitors during the exam, 
to see that it is conducted just as 
any other test in the college would 
be. Any persons found cheating 
in any way will be considered as failing the exam and thus barred 
from all extra-curricular activities.
All questions will be based on 
information printed in the book
lets issued at registration. The tests, requiring a passing grade 
of 70%, will be graded by the Cwens and Scimitars.
Fraternities Add 191 As Rush Season Ends
Phi Kappas Lead With 29 Pledges; 
Betas Second With 23 New Men
As the rushing season draws to conclusion, Carnegies twelve fra
ternities have increased their ranks by the addition of 191 men. 
Each fraternity held its share of
stag rushing functions labelled va
riously as smokers, parties and in
formal open-houses. Weekend 
dances and picnics sponsored by the different houses acquainted 
the rushee with another aspect of 
fraternity social life.
After the hand shaking was 
completed and decisions made, the 
following results were tabulated:
Phi Kappa leads the field in the 
acquisition of 29 pledges: Edward 
Arnold, Joseph Bagosi, Thomas 
Beck, Thomas Bittner, Frank Bosak, Thomas Brinkman, John 
Byrne, Harry Ceranowicz, Joseph 
Cowen, Omar Craig, Alfred Crowe, 
Gerald Crowley, Robert Devlin, 
Richard Gomerick, Charles King, 
Rudolph Massa, Dennis McDonald, 
Joseph McElhenny, William McKibbin, Michael Melnichak, Carl 
Meyer, Harold Meyers, Howard 
Miskill, William Mulrooney, Rich
ard ONeill, Frank Perry, James 
[Continued on page eight]
Sunday Evening 
Services Begin
Discussions of the great religiions of the modern world will 
highlight the series of Tech 
Sunday Evenings to be held in 
the Carnegie Union each Sunday 
until Thanksgiving at 7:00 p. m.
Sponsored by the CIT chapter 
of the YMCA, the meetings will 
present speakers who will explain 
the fundamental precepts of each 
of the great contemporary relig
ions.
Hinduism will be the first of 
the religions discussed at the serv
ice on Sunday, October 10. Stu
dents of the Episcopalian group 
will serve the refreshments.
the question of keys.
In addition to OHares comment, much was said about the 
cost of the keys and the way they were distributed. Council split in
to two groups on the key situation. 
For one the major objection to 
keys was based on the high cost.
Ethel Friedman asked why the 
money spent on keys, which 
amounted to over $800 last semes
ter, could not be spent on schol
arships. This idea received fav
orable comment from many other Councilmen.
The other arugment presented 
was an objection to the wholesale quantities in which the keys 
are given out. Stan Siegel was of 
the opinion that the cost of the 
keys is not the basic difficulty the problem is in the way they are awarded.
One of the suggestions proposed 
was that points should be given 
out for activities and that one key 
be awarded in the senior year on 
the basis of these points.
C. B. Groomes, opposing the 
abolition of keys, declared that a key is as important to the ac
tivities man as a letter is to the athlete.
A wide variety of suggestions 
was proposed by the Councilmen 
but no agreement was reached. A committee consisting of Stan Siegel, chairman, Marilyn Allshouse, and J. K. OHare was ap
pointed to investigate the sugges
tions presented and bring a work
able plan for approval of Council in the near future.
An informal report on the NSA 
convention was given by Tom 
[Continued on page 7]
Tartans Will 
Meet Marietta 
On Saturday
Carnegie Techs football eleven will lift the lid on the 1948 home 
campaign by playing host to Mar
ietta College at Forbes Field this Saturday.
The Tartans will enter the 
game slight favorites over their 
Ohio rivals partly because of their fine showing in bowing to Wash
ington University, 14-6, last week 
and partly because of Mariettas 
loss to Centre College in their opener two weeks ago.
Marietta coach Mickey Glod is 
banking heavily on his big run
ning threat, full Chet Waterman, 
while Carnegie mentor Bill Donohoe will probably counter with versatile Nick Simcic.
The Plaid emerged from theii 
first contest unscathed and will 
be at full strength for the home 
opener. From all indications the locals long winless streak is near an end.

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1948
Carnegie Tartan
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes St., Pittsburgh, Pa. TELEPHONE: SC. 4557; after hours MU. 5365, SC. 8951. Published weekly during the school year, except holidays 
nd examination periods, by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Editor-in-Chief .................................................... Robert W. JohnsonBusiness Manager ........................................................... Samuel MosesAssociate Editor ...................................................... Burton L. Epstein
Personnel Manager .. .*............................................. Jay H. Johnson
News EditorRobert Kubiak, Features EditorGerald E. Peck, Chief Copy EditorThomas P. Murray, Sports Editor Paul Offermann, Makeup EditorRobert Cloud, Art Editor Russell F. Kulberg, Advertising ManagerArthur G. Zuch, Circulation ManagerLewis S. Sternberg.
Copy EditorPat Petrick, Headline EditorMyra-Jane Barry. Proof EditorJohn Braun, Asst. Business ManagerHerbert Stone, Asst. Advertising ManagerMalcolm B. Samakow, Chief ReportersJohn K. Fockler, William Johns, Ben- nard Perlman, Catherine Rudy, Ruby Weisberg, Chief Sports ReporterBill Dorn, Chief PhotographerWilliam D. Benswanger.
Copy StaffMary Cauffield, Robert Heckert, Analee Gelman. Features StaffA. Starke Dischell.ReportersJo Crisanti, Frances Hamborsky, Bea Patterson, 
Angela Pollis.Cub ReportersHilda Chottiner, Jane Conner, Bee Potter,Marian Schrag, Anita Tambellini, Nancy Will.Sports StaffRobert Dougherty, Charles King, Warren Lithgow, Frederick Lunt.Photography StaffRichard Deininger.
Business StaffMorty Baker, Edmund Denburg, Shirlee Gold- enfeld, Dave Steiner, Bob Powers, Mitch Bachon.TypistsElizabeth Asehe, Wilma Dickson, Rodda Dean.
Represented for national advertising by NATIONAL ADVER
TISING, Inc., College Publishers Representative, 420 Madison Ave., New York City. Subscription $1.10 per year.
Entered as second class matter on Oct. 4, '.307 at the
Post Office at Pittsburgh, Pa., under the Act of March 3, 
1879. Accepted for mailing at special rate at postage pro
vided fo_- in the Act of February 28, 1925. Authorized Octo
ber 21, 1918.
Editorials
A Friend Of All
The student body wishes to express its 
deepest regret at the death of Professor Wil
liam R. Work, assistant director of the Col
lege of Engineering and Science, who died 
on Sunday in the Mercy hospital.
A friend of all the students, Professor 
Work had served them for the past 43 
years, sparing neither time nor effort in un
tangling their curricular and personal difficul
ties.
All his friends in the student body, facul
ty, and administration were grieved to learn 
or his death and extend their deepest sym
pathy to his son and daughter.
In The Spotlight
Tartan policy in the past few years has 
been to virtually eliminate fraternity news. 
Because we expect to see changes on the fra
ternity scene, and also considerable action, the 
Tartan this year will handle, as news, the 
activity of Inter-fraternity council.
We feel that this change in policy is jus
tified since a considerable number of the men 
on this campus are members of fraternities 
and they compose what is probably the most 
active group on the campus in extra-curricular 
life. However, their organization, Inter-frater
nity council, has not in the past reflected this 
standing.
IF council is apparently now beginning to 
realize that it has an obligation to the frater
nities and :to the individual members to take 
them off the doorstep of the school by organiz
ing them to take responsible, concerted action 
on their common problems. This is certainly 
preferable to sitting back and hostilely glar
ing at one another, daring someone else to 
make the first move.
The first step in providing IF with a back
bone is now being taken by attempting to 
have each house invest its representative with 
full power to act in what he considers the 
best interest of his house in cases where quick 
action is considered necessary.
All thinking fraternity men, remembering 
the delays in even the simplest actions last 
year, will favor such a policy, for the council 
will mean nothing until it is realistically ap
plied.
The school has often and openly said that 
it wants the fraternities to take themselves out 
of the status of ailing relatives. Now is the 
time for the fraternities to show that they are 
willing and able to stand on their own feet 
to take the responsibilty for their comactions and problems.
CIT-Chat
By John G. Johnson
When Will He Grow Up?
Did we hear someone mention that $4.75 is quite 
a tidy tariff for the Homecoming weekend plan
ned for October 15 and 16? Granted that fivers 
dont grow on trees, lets look at the returns you 
can expect for your money.
To begin with, there are two dances, no Sat
urday classes, the usual decorations award, late 
permissions for the women, breakfasts, the corona
tion of a Freshman queen, concessions of some type 
(plans are not complete for these as yet) and a 
football game. These alone bid fair to make a full 
program to suit every type of quest for relaxa
tion.
Beyond these events, however, there are many 
intangible satisfactions to be gained from partici
pation in the festivities. To further understand 
these, it might be worth while to scan some of 
the reasons behind the expanded program for 
this years Homecoming.
The actual groundwork for the affair was done 
during the latter part of the spring semester. How
ever, most of the appropriate ideas came too late 
in the season to do much about them, so legwork 
had to wait for the beginning of school this fall.
The germ of the plan originally came from a 
heterogeneous group composed of various campus 
leaders who got together to talk over the campus > 
problems.
School spirit had high priority on the agenda 
of those few meetings. After the appropriate or
ganizations were given responsibility a long sift
ing process, interrupted by summer vacation, pro
duced the present Homecoming plan as a partial 
solution to some of the school spirit ills.
The affair was planned to coincide with a re
vival of Freshman Regulations which have been 
laughed off since the war. The consensus of 
opinion was that the only chance to revive school 
spirit was to begin instilling it in an incoming class.
Therefore, regulations for freshmen are now 
being strictly enforced. It is hoped that the current 
freshmen, in turn, will impose even stricter regu
lations on next years entering class.
Furthermore, it was evident that Homecoming 
had lost much of its appeal for the alumni, especial
ly with the deemphasized athletic program. Allow
ing alumni interest to become dormant is one sure
fire means of sending any school into a decline, 
financially and otherwise.
We might pause here to note that this demon
strates that the students are willing to consider 
one of the major problems facing the administra
tion. It is, of course, facing the students as well, 
for alumni are analogous to corporation stockhold
erstheres not much they cant do, once they 
set their minds to it.
Strong alumni can provide scholarships, better 
athletic teams, favorable public relations, encouragment to desirable students to attend their 
Alma Mater, and funds for much needed libraries, 
dormitories, etc.
There was a time, within this reporters memo
ry, when CITs school spirit and alumni support 
were topics of conversation throughout this part 
of the country. That isnt so any more, and all 
these Homecoming plans are aimed at doing some
thing about it.
During the past year, the Alumni Federation, 
under the leadership of president Carl Dozer, in[Continued on page 10]
Letter to the Editor
Students Are Critical 
Of Current Scottie\
Editor, the Tartan;
The current issue of Scottie is purported to 
welcome freshmen and should do so humorously. 
With one exception the articles in this issue are 
trash. They might appeal to underdeveloped in
dividuals who eagerly devour the drivel that oozes 
from cheap pulp magazines but how they can 
satiate humor appetites of reputedly above-aver
age students is a mystery.
Many of the jokes are miserable failures. They 
evoke disgust instead of mirth.
Scottie seeks support after having treated the 
reader to twenty-four pages of inadequate material. 
The support comes from student readers and from 
advertisers. It is folly to think that the present 
editorial policy will elicit support.
Scottie is our humor magazine 
And not supposed to be obscene
Lets keep it clean.
R. B. Atkins
* * Prtg. Sr.
W. J. Eames
Mgt. Sr.
Dean Campbell Grasps 
Reins Of Leadership
Of those qualities necessary in a college dean, two are out
standing: the ability to lead and the ability to direct. CIT is fortunate 
that Miss Josephine Campbell, the new Dean of Women, so excells 
in these abilities.
Miss Campbells background well fits her for assuming the 
Deanship. She was educated at Simmons college, Irving college, and 
Columbia university. She has been associated with universities as 
a student, as a teacher, and as an4-
administrator. Then after years 
in the Navy, she became National 
Field Secretary for the Camp Fire 
Girls, following which she came 
to CIT.
As a leader, Miss Campbell is 
indeed unusual. In her presence, 
the loud, raucous grating of our atomic civilization becomes un
necessary pretension. She gives 
the impression that she, with soft 
voice, would lead where others 
could only drive.
Her ability to organize and di
rect is also impressive, since the 
use of logic is a predominant fea
ture in all that she does. She has 
initiated several sets of records 
which will be useful in the future, 
both to the administration and to 
the student body. These records 
will provide for simpler planning 
of student functions and will al
low the administration more easily 
to offer advice about the back
ground of the individual student.
One of these sets of records is 
a large book, kept in the Deans 
office and available to the faculty 
and the student body. This book 
lists all reservations made by stu
dent (and other) groups for meet
ing rooms at Tech. Miss Campbell 
believes that if all dates are fhecked in this book, much fruit
less planning can be avoided and 
conflicts of meeting places elim
inated.
Another record which she has 
started is a tabulation of informa
tion about the activities of the in
dividual women students. This 
tabulation is also anticipated to be 
valuable both to faculty and stu
dents. The cards will be available 
to the faculty, who may use them when preparing recommendations, 
reference-letters, and similar re
ports. In the past, instructors have 
often had to rely solely on classroom acquaintance with students 
for this information. The various student organizations may also 
use these cards to investigate the qualifications of any particular in
dividual.
Miss Campbell appears to be a 
woman who, though believing that 
rules should be reasonably liberal, 
will demand strict adherance to 
those rules once formed. Carnegie 
Tech can expect her to be a Dean 
who is at once gracious and just.
Dr. Spretnak Is 
Winner Of 1948 
Henry Howe Medal
 Dr. J. W. Spretnak of the metali 
research laboratory has beer 
awarded the 1948 Henry Marion 
Howe medal. This.award, one oi 
the highest given by the Amer
ican Society for Metals, will b< presented to Dr. Spretnak during 
the National Metal Congress anc 
Exposition in Philadelphia or 
October 28.
One of the reasons for thf 
award was the judgement of hi! 
paper on Kinetics of Solidifica
tion of Killed Steel Ingots as thf 
best paper to appear in the metal! 
societys Transactions for thf 
past two years.
The Church Of The Redeemer
(Episcopal)
5700 Forbes Street 
HUGH S. CLARK, RECTOR
----------------------H---------------------
SUNDAY SERVICES
Holy Communion .*...............................................................8 a. m.
Morning Prayer and Sermon ........................................... 11 a. m.
(Holy Communion on 1st Sunday of Month at 11 a. m.)
CANTERBURY HOUSE
5170 Margaret Morrison Street
Student PrayersWednesday Evenings at 10 
Holy CommunionThursday Mornings at 7:30
ALL STUDENTS WELCOME

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1948THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
Coddington 
Loses Station 
To The FCC
WCIT Must Change 
Operating Frequency 
Or Stop Broadcasting
Robert Coddington is a station 
manager without a station.
Although he was elected last 
spring to the position he now holds 
on WCIT, Carnegies campus ra
dio station, Coddington was quick
ly deprived of his domain when 
the Federal Communications com
mission discovered that WCITs 
signal was interfering with a sta
tion in Apollo, Pa.
The station was obliged to cease 
operating when the broadcasting 
frequently could not be immedi
ately changed.
Coddington learned only last 
week that Dave Royse, chief con
struction engineer, who was to 
have made the change of fre
quency, has not returned to CIT 
but has enrolled at Cal Tech.
Gene Connelly, taking Royses 
place, has been named to make the 
frequency change. After this work 
is completed, Coddington expects 
to move the station studios from 
their present location just foff the 
Fine Arts foyer to the Carnegie 
Union.
As soon as there is a station to 
work on, a call will be sent out to 
all interested persons to join the 
stations staff.
Robert Coddington, head of 
campus radio WCIT, who has temporarily lost broadcasting privileges.
Community Chest 
Opens 1948 Drive
Carnegie Techs quota for the 
1948 Community Chest drive is 
set at $6600. Contributions will be 
solicited among members of the 
faculty, administrative staff and 
student body during the week of October 18-22.
During the campaign ten min
utes of scheduled class periods 
will be devoted to the solicitation. 
Students absent or otherwise not 
solicited are asked to make their 
pledges at the office of the cashier 
in Administration hall. A deferred 
payment plan permits students to 
make initial and subsequent pay
ments at the cashiers office.
The Linden Tree Inaugurates 
Drama Department Season
Pearson Directs J. B. Priestly9s Show; 
Performances Will Run From October 21 to 29
'"arnegies drama department is speeding ahead with preparations 
for its inaugural presentation of the season, The Linden Tree. 
Arlene DuMond, assistant director to Professor Talbot Pearson, 
announced this week that there will be nine performances of the 
play. These will include eight ?  
evening performances from Octo-Heres to CITs 
6Weekend Kings
ber 21 to 29 and a rpatinee on the 
29th. A limited number of tickets 
will be available to students 
shortly before opening night.
This modern work, written by 
J. B. Priestly, concerns an Eng
lish professor who feels that he 
and his fellow men must fight the 
tremendous wave of war and post
war pessimism in order to save 
the world from the inevitable de
struction it is bringing upon it
self.
The crux of the play lies in th 
conflict between the professor, 
who is upheld by his youngest 
daughter, and his wife and other 
children, who feel that he should 
forfeit his altruism for whatever 
small conforts he can grasp.
The Linden Tree was ac
claimed in its London reviews and ran on the New York stage for 
a short time with Boris Karloff in 
the role of the professor.
In addition to the forthcoming 
production, Professor Henry 
Boettcher has announced Novem
ber 11 as the opening date for the 
d e p ar t m ents presentation of 
Shakespeares Midsummer 
Nights Dream. This play will 
continue through November 23.
Queen for a Day has been put 
to shame. The Scotch are Kings 
for a Weekend.While Andy Carnegie whirled in 
his grave, the Plaids aristocratic gridiron greats stomped out of 
their dormitories into the chill morning air and wedged their 
dainty forms into any one of a fleet of taxicabs, which whisked 
them off to the railroad station 
for their St. Louis bound train.Their private dining room at the 
Missouri city hotel and another 
episode with the fleet upon their 
return helped to overcome the humility which they suffered from 
their long day coach trip.But don't feel too gay, boys 
Duquesne flew to Philadelphia.
EXPERT REPAIRS
RADIOS, PHONOGRAPHS, APPLIANCES
Sales and Service
LEWIS RADIO 
ELECTRIC CO.
1123 OAKLAND AVK. MA. 11
Bring Your Radio Problems 
To Us
 KTAND experience
At Your Service
POCKET ADDING MACHINE
Amazing palm-size adding machine does all figuring. Adds, Subtracts, Aids in Multiplication & Division up to $99,999,999. All steel, guaranteed 5 years, fits m pocket. Millions in use all / over the world. We pay ,95 postage on prepaid 
orders or COD plus post- age & charges. Leatherette case 
included at no extra charge when remittance is sent with order. Money back guarantee
MIDGET 5-in-l SLIDE RULE
Will instantly add. subtract, divide, multiply & solve proportion. Preferred by professional s- cannot go 'off-scale".True scales give years of precise service. Easily carried In pocket, only 4" in diameter. Price $2.50 In fabricla case or $3.25 in Leather case.BINARY SLIDE RULE- Desk Model of above rule.2 additional log-log scales with larger graduations. Price $7.25 in fabrlcoid case or $9.25 In leather case. Satisfaction guaranteed.TAVELLA SALES GO. Op C -25 W. Bway, MT 7 T
SCC Meets 
For First Time 
This Year
Committee Will Meet 
With Dr. Doherty 
Once Every Month
Acting as a link between the 
student body and the highest 
members of the administration, 
the Student Conference committee 
has begun its series of monthly meetings for the 1948-49 school year.
The first meeting of the current year was held last week with 
Provost E. D. Smith and Raymond 
E. Parshall, assistant to President Doherty, representing the admin
istration. Dr. Doherty, who ordi
narily conducts the meetings, was 
confined to his home by a slight illness.
, Representing the student body 
were Vince Prus, Student Council president; Janet Duffet, Council secretary; Frank Mihelich, Even
ing Student Council president; Robert Johnson, Tartan editor; 
Walter Ambrose, Technical editor; Mary Louise Thorpe, Womens 
Dorm council president; Lee Wiley, 
Inter-fraternity council president; 
Marie Delli Gatti, Panhellenic council president; Robert Fulton, Citcom president; and James McGiffin, Scotch and Soda president. 
No representative was present from Mens Dorm council.
Since most of the members were 
attending their first conference committee meeting, this meeting 
served primarily as an organizational effort.
Provost Smith suggested that 
the members inquire among other students to discover problems or 
questions that should be brought 
to the attention of President Doherty.
ODK Enforces
Traditions
Requirements
Assurance that freshmen who fail the Traditions Exam will not 
be allowed to take part in activ
ities was given last week by Om- icron Delta Kappa, senior mens 
activities and leadership honor
ary, when it voted to accept the 
responsibility of enforcing the prohibition.
ODK will procure from each activity and from the intramural 
board the names of all students who are taking part in the var
ious activities. These lists will then 
be checked against the names of freshmen who fail the exam or 
who do not take the exam. Activity leaders will be asked to re
move all freshmen who are not 
eligible to take part in their activity.
in diameter, has
Let's go to
ISALY'S
Milk Shakes 
Big Ice Cream Cones 
Klondikes 
Tasty Lunches
Three Stores in the College District
5808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland 
Main PUnti 
3380 Boulevard of the Allies
Employment
Notice
All students who applied for 
summer employment in either 
the Dean of Mens office re
quested to report to the place
ment bureau, IH 155, before 
October 20, on their employ
ment status for the past sum
mer.It will not be necessary for 
students who have already done 
so to report again.
APO Schedules 
First Smoker
Freshmen Are Invited 
To Get Acquainted
Alpha Phi Omega, Carnegies 
honorary scouting fraternity, will 
hold a get acquainted smoker 
at the Union on October 12.
Starting at 8:30, the smoker will 
provide an opportunity for new
comers to learn of APOs activi
ties. Special entertainment and 
the serving of refreshments will 
highlight the evening.
Membership in APO is based on 
previous training in scouting, de
sire to render service to others, 
and a satisfactory scholastic stand
ing.
By undertaking such projects as 
publishing the activities directory, 
conducting all-school elections, 
printing basketball programs, pro
viding a tour-guide service, and 
ushering at special school affairs, 
APO carires out its ideals and 
renders an important service to 
the campus.
Invitation to the smoker is not 
limited to freshmen, but includes 
any former Boy Scouts who are 
interested in the organization and 
its activities.
Latin Americans 
Win Fellowships
Alfonso G. Bedoy, Jr., of Mex
ico, and Paulo M. Vianno of Brazil 
have been awarded graduate fel
lowships in the College of Engi
neering and Science at CIT.
The fellowships, for study in chemical engineering and civil en
gineering respectively, were 
awarded by Dr. J. C. Warner, 
Dean of Graduate Studies.
Two such fellowships are given 
annually to Latin Americans, in 
the interests of , inter-American 
friendship, on funds provided by 
the Albert J. Matthes Foundation.
Fraternities 
To Streamline 
IF Council
Chapters Authorize 
Immediate Action 
By Representatives
Four fraternities moved last 
week to untie the hands of 
their representatives on Inter
fraternity council.
Representatives of Alpha Tau 
Omega, Beta Sigma Rho, Delta 
Tau Delta, and Delta Upsilon re
ported that their fraternities had given them permission to use 
their own discretion in acting on 
behalf of their houses.
Other houses had not held 
meetings yet to decide the ques
tion, but similar answers were expected from them which would 
help make IF mean something, 
as IF president Lee Wiley put it.
All delegates emphasized that 
they would take such action as had 
been authorized only when the 
immediate needs of the situation 
demand it. Otherwise, it was ex
plained, the chapters will be con
sulted on all action.
Preparation of a factual book 
on rushing for the benefit of in
coming freshmen was authorized. 
Jim Campbell, A1 Mitchell, and 
Lou Sternberg were named to the 
committee to prepare the book 
and submit it to the council for suggestions.
The work on the book will be 
done this fall while interest in 
rushing is still high and ideas 
are fresh in the minds of the fra
ternity members. The book is part 
of a general program to make sure 
that in the future rushess will be 
better informed upon the pur
poses, practices, and rules of rushing.
To support the Homecoming committee, a resolution was pass
ed that the usual fraternity open 
houses would be held on Friday evening and that the council 
would urge all houses to support 
the semi-formal dance on Saturday of Homecoming.
The Inter-fraternity representa
tives to the Intramural board were 
named at the meeting on October 4. They are: John Rose, Beta 
Theta Pi; Robert Wendler, Del
ta Tau Delta; John Collins, Phi 
Kappa; William Koch, Delta Upsilon; William Dorn, Pi Kappa 
Alpha; and Allan Reed, Sigma Al
pha Epsilon.
Laundry worries got you? Then 
start using the direct conven
ient, personalized laundry 
service offered by RAILWAY 
EXPRESS. By personalized serv
ice we mean your laundry will 
be collected by Railway Ex
press pick-up facilities, sent to
your home promptly, and re
turned to your college address.
If your folks insist on paying 
all the bills, you can stretch your 
cash-on-hand by sending laun
dry home charges collect" and 
having it returned with charges 
prepaid at the other end.
No extra charge for pick-up and delivery in all cities 
and principal towns. Valuation free up to $50.00
CanoWailr.WiTDD
NATION-WIDE RAIL-AIR SERVICE

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1948
Washington U. Stops Tartans, 14-6
Sports Headliners
Paul Offermanns
1948 FootballSportscope s~ 1 A Winning 1 earn
By SoissonTartans Score First; 
Passing Attack Clicks
Stopped One Foot Short Of Second 
Score; Blistering Heat Wilts Line
(He t A HCAW 40EI6MTON 
TH6 WKCSTUN6 TEAM,I I'AC R6PftE56NTATlve
STUOENT COUNCIL 
14 ON THE 00 RM
Once again, Carnegie is on the eve of opening another 
football season at Forbes field. It will mark the 4ftth time that 
the Plaid has fielded a team since the sport was inaugurated 
at CIT in 1906.
It does not seem to be the dull and list
less type of a football seasQn however, the 
kind which has marked Carnegie football 
since before the war. Instead, this season has 
all the earmarks, and certainly all the possibili
ties, of opening a new era of spirit in the 
student body.
The big reason why this season should 
find a revival of student spirit is the football 
team itselfa winning football team in every 
sense of the word. A team that is going to end a long victory 
draught and start its own winning streak this very Saturday.
If the spirit and the will to win which the Tartans have 
this year spreads throughout the student body, not one stu
dent will fail to be at Forbes Field next Saturday to cheer 
the Plaid on. Nor will they miss the pep rally and bonfire 
the night before.
In addition to having a winning team representing them 
this year, the students also have the rare privilege of calling 
the team their ownmade up of fellow students, not pro
fessionals.
Reporters Notebook . . .
Odd notes ... Of all things: The night before their game 
against Washington, Carnegie was reported by a St. Louis 
paper to have C. B. Groomes and Jerry Helland under wraps 
as secret weapons . . . Hats off to the fine gathering of alumni 
from the St. Louis area who cheered our team on. Too bad it 
eouldnt have been our day . . . Marietta should be wrell set 
in the tackle position on Saturday with four men who average a little more than 220 lbs. ... After losing to Franklin 
& Marshall the week before, Lehigh still didnt seem up to 
par in beating Case by only eight points ... a crowd of about 
200 was on hand to welcome the team home from St. Louis. The 
players and coaches really appreciated the gesture. Thats the 
spirit we like to see.
Under New Management
AFTERNOON BOWLING
407-409 Craig Street
SChenley 9307
STUDENT BOOK EXCHANGE
3811 Fifth Avenue 
You'll find the Tech Scottie on: Shaeffer Fine Line Pencils, 
School Pennants, Seal Stationery, Ring Books, Decals
OPEN 8:30 TO 6
r[Conti 'SRutc' Mevee^
TheC TO TECH 
ON AM AtHLTlC 
SC HOC. ARS HIP 
SUT EARNED 
A SCHOLASTIC SCHOLARSHIP 
WITH A S4 
.PACTOR...
CAPTAIN
MEYERS
QoACH DONOHOe's 
CHOICE TO IMAO 
THC TECH Riooero 
INTO THE VICTORY SFOTU68T THI* 5C**ON
Flashing their pre-war form, Carnegie Techs football 
team gave a heavily favored Washington University eleven a 
tremendous 'scare before going down to a 14 to 6 defeat at 
St. Louis on Saturday, October 2.
The Tartans took advantage of the first opportunity presented 
them and jumped off to a six point lead in the opening quarter.
Setting up a defense that was impenetrable throughout the first
half, the Plaid dropped behind by a 7-6 count in the third period.
?Washington repulsed two CIT
threats while clinging to their slim margin and finally clinched the 
victory with their second score 
with only two minutes of play remaining.
A crowd of 7000, including some 80 Carnegie alumni, witnessed the contest which was played un
der a blistering sun. The intense 
heat obviously hampered the vis
itors style of play and a tired, 
wilted line finally relinquished
Game Summary
Line Ups
CARNEGIE TECH EndsWilliamson, Wilson, Donato, 
Fougere, Dougherty.TacklesKeats, Meyers, Lang, Rusnak, 
Hoffman, Madden.GuardsWiseman, Stovicek, Maxton, 
Norton, Arnold, Neilan.CentersWindish, Trautman, Kamaras. BacksMagnifico, Simcic, Warner, Sommer, Minnich, Armour, Trabits, De 
Giovanni, Oberg, Haney, Kenney, Lu-' 
chok.
WASHINGTON 
EndsWiederholdt, Bennett, Stinnett, 
Harrison.TacklesTurley, Reynolds, Steenrod, 
Halliday, Soule.GuardsMahooney, Ebinger, Dana, 
Deutsch, Wood, Vogts.CentersNischwitz, Prokop.BacksRawlings, Belt, Votava, Clodfelter, Stocker, Sprick, Hebberger, Christmann, Eberle, Gerstung, Winner, Swick. Carnegie Tech 6 0 0 0 6Washington 0 0 7 714
Carnegie scoring: TouchdownWilson. 
Washington scoring: TouchdownsEberle, Winner. Points after touchdown 
Sprick 2 (placements)Officials: RefereeOtto Toast (Kansas). UmpireEllis Veech (Illinois). Lines
manArt Sheppard (Bradley). FieldjudgeClair Houston (Missouri).
Soccer Team Begins Turnouts; 
Intrasquad Competition Stiff
Ten Letter Winners9 Eighteen Others Make
Strong Nucleus; But Coach Needs More Men
Coach Patrick F. OConnor greeted 28 candidates for the varsity 
soccer team on Sept. 27, and practice has been going on in earnest 
since then. Eight lettermen have returned from last years team 
which compiled a record of four wins and three losses against 
some very tough competition.#
Also returned to the squad are
Lees, a regular from the 1943 
team, and Knepper, a regular from 
the 1946 season.
Coach OConnor has the job of 
molding these ten veterans and 
the newcomers into another win
ning team. He believes that the 
regulars are OK but there is a lot 
of new blood to fight for their po
sitions. There are wonderful 
possibilities for any men at Car
negie Tech who have played the 
game to win themselves a berth 
on the team. However, he also wants to develop some new men 
who have not played before but who are interested in the game.
Some of the present candidates 
are out for varsity soccer for the 
first time and show promise of de
veloping into first class ball play
ers. Mr. OConnor expressed re
peatedly his desire to have more 
men like these newcomers report 
to him, because he believes there 
are still some potential varsity 
soccer players who have not re
ported to the Forbes street soccer field.
The first game will be at home 
with Maryland State Teachers
college of Frostburg, on October 
16. Although there are only nine 
remaining, Coach OConnor said 
he does not know who will take 
the field against M.S.T.C. when 
the opening whistle blows. ____
Game Notice
Students will be admitted to 
all home games on presenta
tion of their registration re
ceipt card at Gate No. 31 on 
Boquet Street near the main 
entrance of Forbes Field. Stu
dents are requested to occupy 
Section 5, 6 and 7 on the first 
floor. This is directly on the 
fifty yard line. The home games 
are: October 9, Marietta; Oc
tober 16, Franklin & Marshall (Homecoming); October 23, 
Case; and October 30, W & J.
For further information, con
tact the Athletic Office.
WashingtonCarnegie14 First downs ..................9162 Net yards rushing ... 9193 Net yards passing . .. 132255 Total yards ................... 2238 Passes attempted .. .. 205 Passes completed .. .8420 Yards lost on penalties 40
27.6 Punts average ..............7. 37.89.5 Punt runback average02 Interceptions ................1
the final tally in the dying sec
onds.
The Plaid broke into the scoring 
column midway in the first stanza 
when Washington quarterback Lu 
Rawlings dropped one of Johnny 
Williamsons punts. Alert Ray 
Warner raced downfield to re
cover the ball on the enemy 34 
yard line. On the first play fresh
man Johnny Luchock ripped 
through the line for four yards. 
Bobby Sommers then faded back 
and uncorked a long pass which 
carried 30 yards into the end zone 
where Fred Wilson pulled it down 
for the score.
Wes Kenney missed his conversion attempt from placement.
For the remainder of the half it 
was all Carnegie, although neither 
team offered any serious scoring 
threat.
After the intermission the 
Washington running attack, led 
by Charley Winner and Chuck 
Eberle, bogged down again, but 
Rawlings whipped a 30 yard aer
ial to Winner on the Tartan 18 
and Eberle pounded the line five 
times in succession to carry over 
the tying score. Jim Sprick booted 
the ball through the uprights for 
what proved to be the winning point.
The Techmen seemed headed 
for another tally when they took 
the ensuing kickoff and drove 75 
yards down the field only to be 
halted by a strong goal line stand 
on the one-foot line.
Still displaying their fighting 
spirit, the visitors tried once again 
to erase the one-point margin 
with a fourth quarter drive. Nick 
[Continued on page 6]
It's A Long Way 
To Tipperary
University Recreation 
BOWLING
But A Short Walk 
To The:

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1948THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
Washington Game Ushers In 
40th Year Of Tartan Football
Last Saturday, a group of 33 athletes took the field in St. Louis
to inaugurate Carnegies 40th year of intercollegiate football, forty
years of football that have been packed full of the most unusual 
and dramatic incidents in the history of the game.
From the very first day that Carnegie trotted a football team
out on the gridiron it has been in-4- creasingly evident that the Plaids 
strongest features have not been 
backfields and lines studded with All-Ameiicaris but a strongly im
bedded spirit to win, whatever the 
odds.
In that first game back in 1906 
Carnegie held, a much stronger 
and more experienced California 
State Teacher eleven to a scoreless tie.
Coaches have changed and players have moved in and out, a good 
season has been followed by poor 
seasons, but the spirit that ex
listed in that first team has per
petuated itself right down to the present day.
The years in between have been 
amazing. The greatest upset teams 
in the history of football have 
emerged from Skibo Bowl to capture the fancy of the entire 
American public. Teams were such 
underdogs that one of the most un
usual football episodes in the past 
quarter of a century took place in 
Pittsburgh in 1926. J
On a bleak November day in 
that year the Tartans were pitted 
against a great Notre Dame team 
headed for another undefeated 
season. The Skibos had only been 
toppled twice in previous games 
that season, but the Irish were 
such heavy favorites to sweep over 
Coach Steffens charges that 
Knute left the team in the hands 
of his assistants and went on to 
Baltimore to scout Navy for the 
following Saturdays game. Final 
score, Carnegie 19, Notre Dame O.
It was the only loss the Irish sustained that season.
The Tartans had lean pickings for the first few years, but their 
spirit finally paid off in the last 
game of the 1920 season when 
Washington and Jefferson, a grid power in those days, was beaten6-0. 
1923aw th first Carnegie
eleven conquer a University of 
Pittsburgh team by a 7-2 score, 
and three years later, the great up
set of Notre Dame, mentioned pre
viously, placed the Plaid on top 
of the national football pinnacle.
Two years later the Tartans 
proved that their first win over 
the Irish wasnt a fluke by severely trouncing them on their own 
ball yard, Cartier Field, by a score 
of 27-7. It was the first time a No
tre Dame team had tasted defeat 
in 22 years on their own field.Carnegie probably enjoyed its 
best string of football in 1926-28 
when a great backfield, behind a 
strong line, ran wild agiihs? the 
best football teams in the coun
try. All-Americans Howie Harpster and Lloyd Yoder operated 
from the quaterback and tackle 
spots on these teams, together 
with Bill Donohoe, the present 
coach, the Tartans took both of its 
games from Notre Dame and two 
out of three from Pitt during this 
golden era. ,It was also during the twenties 
that Grantland Rice tagged a 
brilliant array of backfield stars 
as the fabulous Four Horsemen, 
following a Carnegie-Notre Dame 
clash.The year 1938 again saw a great 
Carnegie team, this time as East
ern College Champions, although 
their perfect season record was 
marred by a 7-0 defeat by Notre 
Dame. This Carnegie team went 
to the Sugar Bowl against TCU, to be defeated 15-7 by such opposi
tion as All-American Davey 
OBrien and Ky Aldrich.
Although Carnegie has never 
had an undefeated season, has 
had the least All-Americans of 
any school in its classification, and 
has a below .520 all time win 
and loss record, it has been the 
idol of the public for more years 
than any team beside Notre Dame,
Plaid Favored Over Marietta 
In Home Opener Saturday
Marietta Game 
Information
OpponentMarietta College. 
PlaceForbes Field.
DateSaturday, October 9. 
Time2:00 P. M., E.S.T.
Radio BroadcastWPIT.
Facts on Marietta:
NicknamePioneers.
ColorsNavy Blue and White. 
ConferenceOhio.
Head CoachPaul Glod, Ma
rietta 47.
Probable starting line-ups:
CARNEGIE PO S. MARIETTAWilliamson ...........L. E......................... FeliciKeats ................ ...L.T.......................... DulinWiseman ..................L.G.................. BohanesWindish .................... C........................ Como
Stovicek ..................R.G...................... BrownMeyers .......................R.T........................ AdairWilson .....................R. E.............................................................. MorseMagnifioo ................Q. B.................... Schmidt
Simcic .......................L. H.............. RutherfordWarner r..................R. H...................... Biddle
Sommer .....................F.B............ WatermanOfficials:
RefereeJohn Simon.
UmpireAlfred H. Slack. 
LinesmanDr. P. S. Temple
ton.
Field JudgeRaymond A. 
Boll.
More Sports 
On Page 6
With hopes high for their first Forbes field victory since before 
the war, Carnegie Techs football squad will take the field in this 
years home inaugural at the Oakland field against Marietta college 
this Saturday.
In contrast to their past engagements, Coach Bill Donohoes 
proteges will answer the opening whistle with most of the heavy 
money riding on them. Playing the unfamiliar role of favorites, 
the Plaid eleven promises to give#-
the local fans their first taste of 
victory since 1942.
Boasting a line that rates as one 
of the best in the district, the 
Tartans are primed to stop the 
running of hard hitting Chet Wa
terman and are meanwhile preparing to launch their own at
tack on the running and passing 
of Nick Simcic, Wes Kenney, and 
company.
In big John Williamson and 
Fred Wilson the Tartans have two 
capable ends who fill the gap 
that was one of the weak spots in 
the 1947 squad. The remainder of 
the line from tackle to tackle is 
of top notch caliber with captain Gerry Meyers and Norm 
Keats at tackles, Larry Stovicek 
and Floyd Wiseman at guards, and 
Jack Windish at center. Backing these stalwarts are a group of 
able reserves prepared to spell 
off the starting seven with equal efficiency.
A fast backfield is led by bril
liant Nick Simcic, whose running 
and passing has the entire Tartan 
entourage talking about him. 
Meanwhile, Jack Magnifico has
rebounded from an early injury to 
fill the blocking spot with amaz
ing ability. Wingback Ray War
ner and blocking back Wes Ken
ney, who doubles as a place kick
ing specialist, round out the start
ing backfield.
Flashy Don Armour will relieve 
Simcic at the tailback post with 
Arnie Oberg as reserve quarter
back, and Bobby Sommers and 
Johnny Luchok filling similar po
sitions at full and right half.
Mariettas youthful coach, 
Mickey Glod, will use a line that 
averages 196 pounds per man 
against the Plaid. Big question in 
the line is tackle Jack Schreiber, 
who injured an ankle at the start 
of the season and missed the 
opener. Loss of Schreiber for the 
coming contest would be a severe 
blow to the Pioneers chances.
Starting at center for the vis
itors will be A1 Como, one of the 
14 lettermen on the squad. Como, 
a brother of the singing star Per
ry Como, rates high among the 
lineman of the district.
Waterman offers the big scor
ing threat from his fullback spot 
[Continued on page 6]
SQUIRREL HILL 
HOBBY SHOP
Closest Hobby Shop 
to Tech
Balsa Wood
and
Model Builders Supplies
2210 Murray Avenue
Below Phillips 
(68 or 69 Streetcar)
3 Hour Dry Cleaning
Raincoats Showerproofed
Quick Laundry Service
CAMPUS CLEANERS
4609 Forbes St.MUseum 1288

---------------------------------------------------

6THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1948
Intramural
Summary
NATIONAL LEAGUE: Beta Theta Pi, Emanon, Beta Sigma Rho, Kappa Sigma, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Dramats. Del
ta Tau Delta.
AMERICAN LEAGUE: Sigma Nu,
Gringoes, Theta Xi, Tau Delta Phi, Stanley Steamers, Pi Kappa Alpha.
FEDERAL LEAGUE: Citcom, F P H A, Alpha Tau Omega, TNT, Delta Upsilon, Phi Kappa.
Schedule for first two weeks:
Tuesday, Oct. 5Sigma Nu vs. Pi Kappa Alpha. Citcom vs. Phi Kappa.
Wednesday, Oct. 6Beta Theta Pi vs. Emanon. F.P.H.A. vs. Delta Upsilon.
Friday, Oct. 8Beta Sigma Rho vs. Kappa Sigma. Theta Xi vs. Tau Delta 
Phi. Alphs Tau Omega vs. TNT.
Monday, Oct. 11Sigma Alpha Epsilon vs. Dramats. Sigma Nu vs. Stanley Steamers. Emanon vs. Delta Tau Delta.
Tuesday, Oct. 12Beta Theta Pi vs. 
Beta Sigma Rho. Pi Kappa Alpha vs. Tau Delta Phi.
Wednesday, Oct. 13Phi Kappa vs. TNT.
Thursday, Oct. 14Sigma Alpha Epsilon vs. Emanon. Gringoes vs. Theta Xi.
Friday, Oct. 15No games scheduled. 
Homecoming weekend.
Tartans Lose
[Continued from page 4]
Simcic, Don Armour, and Bobby 
Sommers passed the Plaid into 
scoring position, but Hank Christmann intercepted one of Som
mers heaves and rambled to the 
CIT 20 yard line.
Carnegie never threatened 
again, and a Rawlings to Winner 
touchdown pass as the game near
ed a close put the contest on ice. 
All hopes of even a tie ended 
when Sprick again added the ex
tra point.
Washington outgained the Tartains by a mere 32 yards, although 
their running attack netted al
most twice as much yardage as 
their opponents. Carnegies eight 
pass completions were good for 
132 yards while the Bears showed 
only 93 through the air. The first 
downs stood 14 to 9 in favor of 
the victors.
Fraternity Notice
Men living in fraternity 
houses must pay their semester 
room rent between October 6 
and 16 in the office of the Dean 
of Men.
Plaid Harriers 
Show Promise
Largest Group Out 
Since Pre-War Days
With the biggest squad on hand 
since pre-war days, cross country 
coach Guy Halferty is looking for
ward to a successful season. The 
Plaids harried hopefuls have been 
working out daily since the opening of school, with many candi
dates showing considerable prom
ise.
Coach Halferty is building his 
1948 squad around veterans Gene 
Cockrel, Ivor Davies, and Fred 
Price. Cockrel will serve as cap
tain of this years team, while 
Davies is slated to hold the leadoff position. Price, a quartermiler on the track team, is ex
pected to be equally valuable in 
the long distance run.
Although Bill Johnson, star run
ner of last years squad, has been 
lost to the armed services, a ca
pable replacement may be found 
in the large group of newcomers 
that have turned out for th early drills.
Bob Stakhouse has shown 
promise during the first Week of 
practice, as have Chuck Ktircina 
and Jack Stevenson. John Cooper, 
John Alberts, and Harry Ceranowitz have also given indication of 
developing into good endurance runners.
The seasons schedule follows:
Oct. 15 .. Geneva ................ Beaver Falls
Oct 22 .. Slippery Rock.. Slippery Rock
Oct. 30 .. Case ............................ Pittsburgh
Nov. 6 . Westminster .......... Pittsburgh
Nov. 13 .Lehigh ..................... Bethlehem
Intramural Grid Season Opens 
With Nineteen Teams Entered
Teams Show Keen Competition For Trophy;
Students Needed As Referees For Games
Intramural football lias opened another season, with 18 
teams battling Theta Xi, last years champions, for the title.
Games will be played on the two fields oil the Cut and 
also on the soccer field. All games* '
will start promptly at 4:30, and 
team captains are required to have 
their squads ready to play on time.
More teams are competing this 
year than last because more men 
are living on campus and because 
of the keener competition for the coveted all-points trophy.
There is a desperate need for 
officials to referee the games. All 
men who know the rules and have 
strong personalities are welcome 
to come out and earn a few extra 
dollars.
Several important changes have 
been made in the rules in the in
terests of safety and to speed up 
the game. The rolling block has 
been eliminated and the rules on 
fumbling have been redefined so 
that the defensive team may not 
recover a fumble behind the line 
of scrimmage unless the ball has 
not touched the ground.
Since it will be necessary to 
share the fields with the Kiltie 
band and with WAA, space proba
bly will not be available for prac
tice once the season has started.
The fields are in better shape 
this year than last. This factor, 
combined with the change in rules 
and the increase in players, should 
help provide a high caliber of competition.
SUNDAES 
SANDWICHES 
MILKSHAKES
r* ... at...Seemiller's Forbes and Craig
1948Tartan Football Roster
NameNo.Pos. AgeWeightHeight
Armour, Donald C..............12B251605'9"
Arnold, Joseph E................ .28G1818561"
DeGiovanni, August Jr. ....22B231505'5"
Donato, Vincent W.............. .23E221805'8"
Dougherty, Robert W. ..... .29E1818562"
Fougere, Louis F................. . .27E18180511"
Gregoric ..............................E1786
Haney, Thomas J............... . .32B231705'11"
Hoffman. Rolland L........... .50T232106'2"
Holtz, Quentin G...................B20185511"
Johnson, Richard G............ . .C160511"
Johnson. Ronald E.............T1966'3"
Kamaras, Dean C............... . 34C19180510"
Keats, Norman J............... . .52T2522061"
Kenney, H. Wesley ..... 33B2217559"
Lang. Hans W. ................... .30T1818061"Luchok. John J.................... 35B1817060"Madden. Stephan F.. . .51T2120559"
Magnifico. John J............... . .37B1918060"Max ton. John R...................15G211805'8"Meyers, Gerald H.* .........48T202106'3"Minnich, Edward G........... .10B181505'9"
Neilan, John B. .................36B23185510"Norton, James F............... .24G211805 8",Oberg, Arne R. ................26B18175511"Petrosky, Joseph W..........B181505'8"Rapoport. Joseph H........... . .E251856 0" ,Rusnak, George A..............38T21215511"Simcic. Nick F.................... .25B23175511"Sommers, Robert J. ....11B1918060"Stovicek, Lawrence G. . . ..46G1920062"Trabits, James E.................19B211555'9"Trautman, James F............ . .44T202156'3Warner, Raymond F. ...14B241605'9Wiseman, Floyd L.............. .31G19190511"Windish, John E................. . .47C2319560"Williamson, John C............ .20E271756'3"Wilson, Fred A.18E2017561"West, Peter W....................B18165510"
Year oh
High SchoolHome Team
MassillonMassillon, O. .............. 2
Moon TownshipCoraopolis, Pa. . . 1
Mt. LebanonMt. Lebanon, Pa. . . 2
SchenleyPittsburgh, Pa................... 1
PottsvillePottsville, Pa...................... 2
BourneBourne, Mass.......................... 1
Ambridge, Pa......................................... 1
AvonworthAvonworth, Pa............... 2
BethelPa................................................. 2
HastingsHastings, Pa......................... 1
Wickliffe, Ohio ...................................... 1
Jamestown, N. Y............................ 1
SchenleyPittsburgh, Pa..................... 2
UtrichtBrooklyn, N. Y....................... 3
FairviewDayton, Ohio .................... 3
LangleyPittsburgh. Pa....................... 1
CentervilleCenterville, Pa................ 1
CraftonCrafton, Pa............................. 2
De LasalleNew York, N. Y.............. 2
WilkinsburgWilkihsburg, Pa........... 3
BennettBuffalo, N. Y........................ 3
DormontDormont, Pa........................ 1
SomersetSomerset, Pa........................ 2
MillcreekErie, Pa................................ 2
Har BraeBrackenridge, Pa. . ........ 1
St. Vincent PrepLatrobe, Pa............ 1
DormontDormont, Pa......................... 3
MunhallPittsburgh, Pa...................... 1
WashingtonPittsburgh, Pa................ 1
Mt. LebanonMt. Lebanon, Pa.......... 2
BenedictineCleveland, Ohio............. 2
AvonmoreAvonmore, Pa................... 2
BucyrusBucyrus, Ohio .................. 3
Har BraeBrackenridge, Pa.............. 3
MonessenMonessen, Pa..................... 2
CoraopolisCoraopolis, Pa. .............. 2
DormontDormont, Pa......................... 3
McKeesportMcKeesport, Pa............ 1
EdgewoodPittsburgh, Pa.................. 1
Captain
Coming Game
[Continued from page 5] 
with Bill Lucas, Buck Rutherford, 
and John Biddle listed as his running mates.
The Blue and White team lost 
their first game of the current 
year to Centre College, 7 to 6, 
and later appeared at home 
against Rio Grande. This weeks 
game, however, will be the first 
day contest for the visitors, who 
play the majority of their home 
engagements under the lights.
The optimism which has been 
evdent in ^everyone connected 
with the CIT team throughout the 
pre-season practices still prevails, and all are confident that a vic
tory is in the making for the offi
cial lidlifter. There is no doubt 
that the Plaid will take the field 
at kickoff time on Saturday de
termined to come out a winning team.
Intra-Class 
Girls Sports 
Organized
WAA has begun to revitalize 
womens sports.
A womens field hockey team is 
now being organized. All candi
dates, with or without expereince, 
are requested to report ^to the cut at 3:30 October 6, 4:30 October 7, 
and 4:30 October 12.
Teams will be divided into in
tra-class leagues. It is hoped ultimately to arrange exhibition 
games with district colleges.
Archery practice is also sched
uled to begin this week. Those 
interested are to meet in the 
womans club room, room No. 1 in 
the gym, at 2:30 Wednesday and 
3:30 Thursday of this week. Prac
tice will be held on the range 
above the tennis courts.
Individual competition is plan
ned at this time with tournament 
play scheduled for the first week in November.
A dance club meeting will also 
be held on Thursday of this week 
in the dance room, 304, in the 
gym. Only those who have had 
previous dancing experience are 
invited.
How many million
times today?, r
M
liT KaAm 305 million times today and every 
day, Bell telephone users reach out to make 
or answer calls.
Day and night, you count on your telephone 
to work. And it does.
Thats because Bell telephone people are old 
hands at giving good serviceand because Western 
Electric people have always made good telephones, 
switchboards and cable.
Ever since 1882, Western Electric has been the 
manufacturing unit of the Bell Systemhelping 
to make your telephone service the best on earth.
Western Electric
A UNIT OF THE BELLSYSTEM SINCE 1882

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1948THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
Campus Officers
Officers of all campus organ
izations must fill out organiza
tion cards as soon as possible 
if they have not already done 
I so. Activity cards are available 
fin the Dean of Womens office.
Homecoming
[Continued from page 1J
All fraternities are planning the 
annual Homecoming decoration of 
their houses in attractive and un
usual themes. A committee of 
judges will visit each of the houses 
and choose the one which, in their 
opinion, has demonstrated the 
most ingenuity, imagination, and 
effort. During the Saturday night 
dance, the committee will present 
an award to the winning frater
nity.Plans are being made to crown 
a Freshman Queen Saturday 
morning on the cut. Following the 
coronation, fresnman and sopho
more men will engage in a contest 
of an unannounced nature.Both Friday evening and Satur
day afternoon will witness a huge 
parade of students, led by the 
Kiltie band and Carnegie cheer
leaders. On Friday, before the 
dance, the group will march down fraternity row, into the driveway 
of Morewood Gardens, across 
campus to the mens dormitories 
and finally to the Tartan bowl befiind Margaret Morrison college.
After the pep rally led by the 
cheerleaders, most students will 
adjourn to the dance in the gym 
or to fraternity open houses.
On Saturday, before the football 
game between Carnegie Tech and 
Franklin and Marshall at Forbes 
Field, the Kiltie band will lead a 
parade down Forbes street to the 
field. During half time, as usual, 
the band will march on the field 
and present its famous and color
ful routine.Since one of the main purposes 
of Homecoming is to bring back 
alumni to visit the school, many 
alumni are expected to attend 
both the game and the dances. 
Citcor Clan and Mens Dorm 
council are planning ot serve as 
hosts to independent alumni, while 
fraternities will entertain their 
own members.Registration for alumni will be
gin on Friday and continue Sat
urday in the Union. Plans have 
also been made to hold the an
nual alumni luncheon in Skibo on 
Saturday.
Special Lunches for 
Students and Businessmen
11:00 A. M.2:00 P. M. 40c and UP
AUTHENTIC CHINESE DISHES
also
AMERICAN DISHES SERYED
Bamboo Gardens
3531 FORBES STREET 
MA. 7493
T
H
E
C
L
O
C
K
Good Meals Anytime
Try Us Soon 
Morn, Night, or Noon
The Clock
3814 Forbes St.
Men Vote For 
Dorm Council 
Re presentatives
Representatives to Mens Dormitory council will be elected at in
dividual dorm meetings on Octo
ber 7. Each of the nine mens 
dorms will elect four representa
tives to the council. These thirtysix members, combined with the 
three permanent representatives 
elected last spring, will make the 
council a body of thirty-nine members.
The three permanent members 
were elected last spring because 
of a change in the Constitution of 
the Mens Dormitory council which 
provides that the president, secretary, and custodian of property of 
the council will be elected in the 
spring as permanent members to 
serve over the summer and to run 
the election and reorganization of 
the council in the fall. The three 
permanent merhbers at present are: President  Gerry Meyers;
SecretaryPaul Hanna; and Custodian of Property  'Charles Grimes.
Council Notices
Student Council members 
must present a satisfactory ex
cuse when they miss Council 
meetings. Any member who 
accumulates more than three 
unexcused absences will be asked to resign.
Until further notice, Council 
meetings will be held on Wed
nesday afternoons at 4:30 in Room A of the Carnegie Union. 
The meetings are open to visitors.
Council members and other 
students may see copies of the 
proposed revised Council con
stitution in the office of the 
Dean of Men. Members are 
especially urged to familiarize 
themselves with its contents before it is brought up in Coun
cil for action.
FOUR BARBERS TO 
SERVE YOU
Quick Efficient Service at the
TECH BARBER SHOP
Corner of Craig and Forbes
Student Council
[Continued from page I]
Hall on behalf of himself and Jerry Meyers. He stated that NSA had worked on international, na
tional, and individual campus 
problems.
Councilman Pat Ryan asked 
where CIT stood on* the NSA question at the present time, and 
president Prus explained that 
Council had approved the appro
priation for joining NSA last year, conditional upon the report of the 
convention. All that remains is to 
make the final decision.Since the . reports of the work
ing committees were not heard at the NSA convention due to parlia
mentary difficulties, no formal report on the subject will be given 
to Council until these reports are
received.Among the routine business 
transacted, a report by Frank Lee 
on the A1 Minetti Memorial com
mittee revealed that none of the 
bids made by contractors on the 
memorial project were within the 
means of the committee, whose 
treasury contains only the $760 
collected from the students. The 
project is to be suspended and 
the committee will investigate 
other possibilities for constructing 
a memorial.
An appropriation of $75 to APO, 
campus service fraternity, for the 
purpose of publishing the Student 
Activities Directory was passed.
Budgets for the Tartan, Thistle, Scabbard and Blade, and the Homecoming committee were ap
proved, as was a new constitu
tion for Beaux Arts.
Music For Your Dancing Pleasure
BOB BOBEBTS OBCB. 
Call CEdar 2653
Quality Music By 11 Musicians 
WE RATE A TRIAL
CAWfX C4pcR$..StfF
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL FACTORS OF 
OOLTISHNESS MANIFEST" THEMSELVES IN A VARIETY OF WA/S. WHAT ARE JACKSON?^,______
r I..ER. HRUMMPH ! THAT V nIS...KOFF! KO FF! I...ER
rSA/, BILL, HOW IS IT 
yOU ACTED SO LOGY IN CLASS TODAY ? 
AND ARE YOU SUFFERJNG 
FROM A COLO?]
SHUCKS, NO! I SMOKED 
A LOT LAST NIGHT 
AND THIS MORNING 
My PHARYNX FELT 
DRY AND My MOUTH 
HAD A CREPUSCULAR
SOUNDS LIKE SIGNS OFCIGARETTE. HANGOVER* TO ME. WHY NOT CHANGe 
TO PHIUP MORRIS,THE ONi_y LEADING 
CIGARETTE PROVED DEFINITELY
LESS IRRITATING.
All joking asiJi, Gang
CIGARETTE HANGOVER is nothing to Idugh about*
Why dont you try philip morris? From all over America 
smokers report *no cigarette hangover when you smoke 
philip morris. That's because philip morris is definitely less 
irritating than any other leading brand! Youll be glad 
tomorrowy ou smoked PHILIP MORRIS todayI
BUILD YOUR VOCABULARY
OPTIMUM -"Hi# most favorable"; 
ORGANOLEPTIC -"affecting organs 
of touch, tatto, tmell." So,lor OPTIMUM 
ORGANOLEPTIC GRATIFICATION, 
rood "TOP SMOKING PLEASURE."
DOLTISHNESS "stupidity"
ADUMBRATE -"foreshadow"
NON COMPOS MENTIS  Roughly 
translated: "to bs cracked; off your nut"
PHARYNX-"throat"
CREPUSCULAR -"dark; twilit"
SALUBRIOUS "wholesome; fresh"- 
(ust like PHIUP MORRIS cigarettes
QUOD SRAT DEMONSTRANDUM - 
r "Check and Double Check I"
/

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1948
Rushing Results
[Continued from page 1]
Rider, Vincent Schmitt and Bernard Smith.
A total of 23 men have pledged Beta Theta Pi. These include Hugh 
Alford, Jack Burrey, Thomas Cooper, Scripps Downing, Theodore 
Faye, Ken Gillen, Fred Grantham, 
David Hass, Jack Hourland, William Hudson, Robert Jaross, Wil
liam Kail, George Kaufman, Don
ald Meyers, Martin Moyer, Robert 
Power, John Rile, John Rodd, Paul 
Stettler, Charles Vaughan, Peter 
West, Ralph Whitehead, and Thomas Wilson.
Delta Upsilon pledged 20 men: 
Clinton Bergquist, Sam Brooks, 
Joseph Danko, George Derker, 
James Donohue, Jack Ferrell, 
George Good, Albert Kasmer, Wil
liam McDonald, Keith Maeller, 
Robert Odeh, Joseph Oxley, 
George Pugh, Thomas Reilly, 
George Reisenger, Wilfred Rowe, 
Donald Stewart, William Wayman, 
Alfred Wells, and James Whaler.
Three fraternities have each 
added 17 pledges. Sigma Nu 
pledged Bernard Blake, William 
Borales, Harold Cuhna, Edward 
Flora, Victor Hoyecki, John Hull, 
Peter Lagrove, James Mateer, 
Thomas Miller, Edward Neff, 
Thomas Sheffer, Jack Stephenson, 
Theodore Tepelidis, Brad Thomp
son, Vincent Tigersall, Bruce Up
dike, and Fred Wilson.
Delta Tau Delta pledged Thomas 
Birch, John Bishop, Gerry Conlon, 
Roger Cunningham, Sam Forter, 
Jack Horst, Edward Kerr, Carl 
Kipp, Sellers McNally, Bud Miller, 
A1 Moon, John Neilson, Barry 
Purrington, Robert Pratt, William
Sheldon, Henry Sheppard, and 
Derrick Van Schoonhoven.
Pledged to Alpha Tau Omega 
are Donald Anderson, Gus Ander
son, Thomas Astle, Robert Beckman, Blair Browne, Jack Cavett, 
Richard Dimon, David Elliot, Rob
ert Evans, Kevin Friedrich, Don
ald Glass, William Griffith, Donald 
Gustafson, William King, James 
Matoney, Rudy Poklar, and Don
ald Schumacher.
Theta Xi has pledged 15 men: 
Joseph Chopp, James Dally, Albert 
Deeds, Eugene Eisemann, Richard 
Evans, Myron Hardy, Frederick 
Leonard, Morris McPhail, Joseph 
Petrosky, Milton Prevost, Charles 
Schlicht, Edward Slade, James 
Weet, Joseph Winklmann, and Edward Yorkison.
Beta Sigma Rho pledges num
ber 14 including Donald Abrams, 
Richard Auerbach, Alan Blotcky, 
Ronald Curhan, Peter Feibleman, 
Neil Fishman, Kenneth Goldman, 
Michael Gray, David Holtz, James 
Lenk, Alan Meltzer, Thomas Na
than, Arnold Sherman, and Arnold Slivkin.
Thirteen men have pledged 
Kappa Sigma: James Alemany, 
Robert Conrad, Robert Edrington, 
Quentin Haltz, Hans Lange, John 
Lechok, Ray Marigold, Arthur 
Mensing, Walter Moses, Carl Rassbach, Dean Scott, Howard Snyder, and Edgar Wolfram.
Pi Kappa Alpha has pledged the following ten men: Wesley Apple, 
Ernest Barvoats, Donald Braun, 
Robert Carr, James Christopher, 
James Crocker, Charles German, 
Richard Johnson, Robert Lynch, and Sam Smith.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon has added 
nine men to its fold: Jay Hall,
Campus Headquarters for Arrow Products, 
Nationally Known Clothing and Furnishings
LEONARD'S MENS SHOP
Corner Forbes and Atwood St.Oakland
COMING YOUR WAY!
"GABANARO
//
Here's a rugged and handsome shirt of rayon gabardine that 
Arrow's sports shirt experts designed for action phis comfort.
Gabanaro comes in several smart colors and is Sanforsef* 
labeled for complete washability ... $5.95
Will never shrink or stretch out of fit.
ARROW------------------------------------------?
SHIRTS and TIES 
UNDERWEAR  HANDKERCHIEFS  SPORTS SHIRTS
Make "BUD" your ARROW 
Headquarters
236 Diamond St.
Across From Donahoes
ATlantic 2964
MW0
Jack Meess, Fred Parson, Edward 
Petersen, Kenneth Seiffers, Donald 
Sellers, Michael Spanovich, Van 
Stauffer, and Paul Strickland.
Seven men have pledged Tau 
Delta Phi. These include Mitch 
Bachon, Morton Baker, ^Edmund 
Denburg, Mortin Geller, Henri 
Pruszenowski, and Barry Tarmay.
Most fraternities expect addi
tional pledges before the rushing 
season closes.
Citcom Drives 
For Members
Citcoms active drive for mem
bership is still continuing with 
the addition of one hundred new 
members since September 25.
The Clan hopes to have four 
freshmen women candidates in 
the coming election for Freshman 
Queen.
Dr. Work
[Continued from page one] 
problems made him an invaluable 
friend to the hundreds of veterans 
who returned to the Carnegie 
campus after the last war. During 
this post war period Dr.. Work 
served as veterans advisor.
Listed in Whos Who in Amer
ica, Dr. Work was a member of 
Si&ma Xi, Eta Kappa Nu, and Tau 
Beta Pi honoraries and Beta Theta 
Pi fraternity.
After attending Wittenberg 
Academy in Springfield, Ohio, he 
received an A.B. degree from Wit
tenberg college in 1902 and a Mas
ter of Engineering degree from Ohio State in 1905. In 1920 Wit
tenberg awarded him an honorary 
Doctor of Science.
Surviving are a son, daughter, 
sister, and five grandchildren. His 
wife, the late Mrs. Ola Kautzman
Social Events 
Must Be Listed
To avoid conflicts in the social 
calendar, all organizations plan
ning affairs must fill out new ap
plications in the Dean of Womens 
office. Meeting or party places! 
should be reserved as far in ad
vance as possible. . 
Requests for reservations must 
include such pertinent information 
as hours, chaperons, and nature of 
the event. Special rules are like
wise drawn up for the use of the 
Carnegie Union, with stipulations 
varying according to the nature 
of the event.
Work, passed away earlier this 
year.
Funeral services were held yes
terday afternoon in the H. Samson 
funeral home.
In Oakland Parker "5Ts" Are Available
SALES -AT- SERVICE
S. BINSTOCK Jewelers, inc.
3702 Forbes St. Pittsburgh, Pa.
jeadeM...
wor Id s most
An impartial survey at 20 leading universities 
shows Parker is preferred by campus leaders. 
Senior men and women, senior athletes and class 
officersall have voted Parker top choice.
Youll find that you seem to think betterwork 
faster with the sleek 51. The precision balance 
guards against fatigue. You feel like writing! The 
5Fs exclusive alloy point starts instantlyglides 
with satin-smoothness. And you never need a
blotter! This pen writes dry with new Super
chromethe ink created for the 51 alone.
As a sound investment towards a successful 
school year, choose Parker 51 ... the worlds 
most-wanted pen. Pens, including new demi-size, 
$12.50 and up. Sets, $18.75 to $80.00. Choice of 
colors, custom points. The Parker Pen Com
pany, Janesville, Wis., U. S. A.; Toronto, Can.
uHu&i by
$35 CASH GIVEN AWAYfor interesting. true stories about Parker 51 Pens. Base it on your own experienceor relate the experience of some friend. S25.00 for each story used. Just report the facts. Stories are judged on facts alone. All latter* become our propertycannot be returned. Address: The Parker Pen Company, Dept. 5*47, Janesville, Wisconsin.
I

---------------------------------------------------

Smoke Camels for 30 consecutive days. Smoke only Camels. 
If, at any time during these 30 days, you are not convinced 
that Camels are the mildest cigarette you have ever smoked, 
return the package with the unused Camels and we will 
refund your full purchase price, plus postage. This offer is 
good for 90 days from this date.
(Signed) R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY,
. WINSTON-SALEM, NORTH CAROLINA
MY SMIMNS TOT
CAMEL MILDNESS!
17J I In a recent test, hundreds of men and 
women all across the country 
... of all ages and occupations 
... were closely observed as 
they smoked Camelsand only 
Camels  for 30 consecutive 
days. And they smoked on the 
average of one to two pack
ages of Camels a day. But only 
Camels!
Every week through
out this dramatic 30- 
day test, their throats were 
carefully examined by noted 
specialistsa total of 2470 ex
acting examinations. And 
among all these smokers, these 
famous throat specialists found 
not one single case of throat 
irritation due to smoking 
Camels!
'7%?vre/f'
Maz ife Came/ 
30-^y7csf-/
J Prove it yourself. In 
your "T-ZoneT 
for Taste and T for Throat. 
Smoke Camels for 30 days. 
Let YOUR OWN TASTE tell
you about the full, rich flavor 
of Camels choice tobaccos. Let 
YOUR OWN THROAT tell
you the story of Camel s cool 
mildness. Yes, prove for your
self that theres
DUE TO SMOKING CAMELS!
According to a Nationwide survey:
MORE DOCTORS 
SMOKE CAMELS
than any other cigarette
Doctors smoke for pleasure, too! And 
when three leading independent re
search organizations asked 113.597 
doctors what cigarette they smoked, 
the brand named most was Camel !
NO THROAT IRRITATION
Something To WHISTLE A!
You have a TREAT right in your own backyard 
For Your Evening Pleasure
DON METZ
IS DEVOTING HIS LARGE DINING ROOM
To TECH and PITT Students
for Evening Entertainment & Dcncing
AT STUDENT BUDGET PRICES
Make This Your Place For Lunch and Evening Enjoyment 
LUNCH AS LOW AS 55c NO COVER AND NO MINIMUM
3802 FORBES STREET
Morewood Gardens Girls Live 
A midst Splendor A nd Confusion
Final judgment of the Morewood Garden experiment must 
fall to the girls who actually live there. And although it may 
be a bit early to poll their opinions the general reaction thus 
far is quite favorable.
The difficult days of settlement are passing. Phones are ringing 
4nd elevators are humming at long last. Still remaining though is 
the irksome trek from Morewood to the Carnegie Inn for meals.
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1948
Happily, there are dining ac-< commodations for the freshman 
girls, created by razing partitions 
on the first floor. Very pleasant 
accommodations they are, too, all 
misty blue, but that will be slight 
comfort, come the dead of winter, to those upperclasswomen braving 
the blustery Cut for dinner.
Occupants Approve
Withal, the girls seem mighty 
proud and pleased with their 
beautiful apartment house dorm, 
especially with the appointments 
of the individual rooms. The fad
ing whine of saws and rap of hammere leave floor on floor of com
bined living, study, and bedrooms. 
Some even have luxurious private baths. All are handsomely 
furnished with bed, desk, book
case, and bureau. Some fortunate girls boast bay windows and fire
places in their rooms.
The stark sameness of paint and 
furniture is softened by the indi
vidual decorations of the occu
pants. Spreads, drapes, and acces
sories are the girls own and lend 
individuality to the rooms. Inter
ested parties can get further in
formation from the men of Pi 
Kappa Alpha, conveniently located 
just across the street.
Four DivisionsAs an overall view, the building 
is divided into four towers 
known quaintly as A, B, C, and D. 
More imagination has been shown 
in the departmentalizing of the 
building. Each floor of each tower 
is a unit in itself, complete with 
telephone, utility room, and a 
comfortable lounge.
The roster of administrative 
heads residing in the Gardens in
cludes: Miss Campbell, Dean of 
Women; Mrs. Zimmerman, Resi
dent Head; and Mrs. Williams, 
Resident Manager. Each tower is 
supervised by a hostess and assis
tant who use the first floor of the 
towers for living quarters and 
operational bases. There are, in 
addition, a nurse and a manager 
of food service on duty.
Frosh Have Counselors
The freshman tower is unique 
in having floor counselors, upperclass girls residing in the unit. 
Suppression of unladylike exhuberance and adding upperclass 
dignity are their objectives.
A sidelight illustrative of the 
thoroughness of the planning is 
the complete exchange of doors 
throughout the building. The idea 
was to have all locks moved so 
existing keys of old occupants 
would be useless. So successful 
was the maneuver that even the 
workmen were confused and the 
keys had to be fitted to all locks by trial and error.
Totaling the rooms per floor and 
floors per tower gives the dormitory a capacity of four hundred 
girls. To date, three hundred sixty 
of the spaces have been filled. Any 
census would, however, be negli
gent if it overlooked the male 
transients.
Engineers, F.A. Invade
Afternoons and evenings wit
ness the descent of engineering 
and arts men who have learned 
the ways of the vestibule and 
house phone. The concentration 
is most acute, though, at the goodnight hou on weekends.
THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
Dorm girls enjoy both comfort 
and luxury in redecorated More
wood Gardens apartments as pic
tured in scenes of living room, 
elevator, and dining room.

---------------------------------------------------

will speak to a meeting of the 
Carnegie Tech Metals club on October 12, at 7:45 p. m. The 
meeting will be held at the Delta 
Upsilon fraternity house, and will 
launch the clubs activities for the coming year.
The dances are going to cost the 
alumni even more than the $4.75 
student price, but the committee 
is anticipating a banner crowd of 
grads. Lets go out and greet 
them!
Dr. Mehl will outline depart
mental policy as it applies to all undergraduates. He will acquaint 
the freshmen and sophomores with 
the benefits to be derived from 
association with the department.
More (independent experts smoke Lucky Strike regularly than the next two leading brands combined!
An impartial poll covering all the Southern tobacco markets reveals 
the smoking preference of the men who really know tobaccoauction
eers, buyers and warehousemen. More of these independent 
experts smoke Lucky Strike regularly than the next two 
leading brands combined.
Se, for your own real deep-down smoking enjoyment, smoke the smoke tobacco experts smoke!
LUCKY STRIKE MEANS FINE TOBACCO
So round, so firm, so fully packedso free and easy on the draw
10THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1948
Bulletin Board
C Book
The Public Relations office of 
Carnege Tech has undertaken the 
production of the Student Direc
tory, better known as the C 
book, again this year. Because of 
a rise in printing costs the direc
tory will be slightly more expen
sive this year than in the past. 
Work on the C book has already 
started, but it is not yet known 
when the book will be ready for 
sale.
Guidance Bureau
Official headquarters for Car
negies bureau of measurement 
and guidance have been moved to 
the third floor of Industries hall. 
Students may make appointments 
with the secretary to see Mr. 
Moore, Dr. Simpson and Mr. Mor
gan in the main office, Room 
342E.
Teknon Meeting
Teknon, an interdenominational 
religious group whose purpose is 
to instill greater personal realiza
tion of religion, will hold its first 
meeting on October 6, at Shadyside Presbyterian church, located 
on the corner of Amberson ave
nue and Westminister place.
Dinner will be served at 6:00 
p. m. in the church. A discussion, 
centered primarily along religi
ous lines, will follow the meal. 
All interested students are invited.
YWCA Club
During the initial meeting of 
the freshman YWCA club on Sep
tember 29, in Margaret Morrison, 
a member of the Pittsburgh 
Chamber of Commerce presented 
a colored slide film outlining the 
cultural and industrial highlights 
of Pittsburgh.
About 60 students and teachers 
attended the program.
Plans for the next program, a 
tour of the Carnegie Institute con
ducted by Mr. James Bovard, 
were announced by the student 
chairman of the club, Miss Louise 
Thayer.
Painting Exhibit
Paintings by Stuart Williams 
and Jean B. Smith, 1948 gradu
ates, and Phillip Ciotti, senior in 
the painting and design depart
ment, have been selected for nation-wide exhibition under the 
auspices of the American Feder
ation of Arts.
Both Mr. Williams and Miss 
Smith have had paintings in the 
American Heritage collection 
accompanying the Freedom Train. 
Mr. Ciotti will enter his work 
Newspaper Office, recently com
mented upon by Time magazine.
Debating Club
Plans formulated at the first 
meeting of the Debating club con
sist of the arrangement of round
table discussions with Duquesne 
university on the topic: How Can 
Civil Liberties Be Guaranteed to 
All Those Living in the U. S.?
Thirty new members were pres
ent at the meeting and were given the debate question for the year: 
Resolved: That the Federal Gov
ernment Should Adopt a Policy 
of Equalizing Educational Oppor
tunity in Tax Supported Schools 
by Means of Annual Grants.
Scheduled to meet every Tues
day at 12:30 in 251 I.H., the club 
is under the direction of Mr. Erwin Steinberg, faculty sponsor.
Mens Glee Club
Carnegie Techs Mens Glee 
club, which will hold its second 
formal rehearsal tomorrow, has 
issued an emergency call for first 
tenors. Tryouts for other sections 
have been completed, but lack of 
lead singers prevents further ex
pansion of the organization.
Prospective tenors are requested 
to report to the rehearsal tomor
row at 4:30 in Room 104 Mar
garet Morrison.
Symphony Series
The Pittsburgh Symphony or
chestra opens its 1948-49 season 
on October 22. Its opening has 
been eagerly awaited by all those 
who love music and enjoy going 
to concerts.
This season Pittsburgh will see 
many guest conductors, includ
ing Leonard Bernstein, who will 
also appear as piano soloist. 
Nathan Milstein and Jascha 
Heifetz are among the featured 
violinists. Two of the noted pian
ists will be Vladimir Horowitz 
and Robert Casadesus.
Student tickets at a reduced rate 
are available.
Poetry Contest
Students of Carnegie Tech have 
been cordially invited by the Na
tional Poetry association to sub
mit verse for publication in the 
Annual Anthology of College Po
etry. Manuscripts will not be ac
cepted after November 5, 1948.
Poetry should be sent to the Na
tional Poetry association, 3210 
Selby Avenue, Los Angeles 34, 
California. Every entry should in
clude the authors name, home 
address, and college attended.
Students will not only get sat
isfaction from seeing their work 
in print, but will reflect credit on 
their school through recognition 
by the publication. The student 
also has an opportunity to com
pare his work with that of stu
dents his own age.
Chemistry Club
Last week the Chemistry club 
held a meeting at which the fol
lowing officers were chosen: Vic
tor Maddox, president; David 
Sapper, vice-president; Mary Lou 
Bacon, secretary; and Arthur 
Dickson, treasurer. The club 
plans to hold a party for its mem
bers in the near future.
Tom Paine Club
The Tom Paine club for grad
uate student liberals Started its 
fall program at the Ellsworth 
Avenue First Unitarian church on 
September 26.
Though sponsored by the Uni
tarian church, this club is open 
to all men and women of gradu
ate student age, regardless of raee, 
color, or creed. The Tom Paine 
club is of the same nature as the 
Jefferson club, which has been 
sponsored by the First Unitarian 
Church for several years.
Womens Glee Club
There will be a full rehearsal of 
the Womens Glee club on Wed
nesday, October 6, in the Mar
garet Morrison assembly room at 
4:30 pm. A list of new members 
as determined by the Monday 
auditions is posted on the bulletin 
board in the main hall of Mar
garet Morrison.
Dr. Mehl Will 
Address Metals 
Club October 12
Dr. Robert F. Mehl, head of the 
department of metallurgical en
gineering and world renowned 
expert in the science of metals,
CAT Chat
[Continued from page 2] 
stituted a slogan aimed at stim
ulating and reviving alumni sup
port. The slogan is Tell your 
friends you went to Carnegie. 
The groups sponsoring Homecom
ing are interested now in creating a situation whereby the an. 
swer will be other than, So 
what!
The cash outlay will net you 
a memorable week-end of fun plus 
the long run satisfaction of know, 
ing that you contributed some, 
thing toward making Carnegie a 
better place to call my school.

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1948THE CARNEGIE TARTAN11
-ft'COAC
SAVD/wKTtHRANC."
-AN'BRCSftER,
t scmxm , T'SE.' v
COME TO ME ARMS 
'l YA FEAUTTFITLfj
Rokm,stn
THE FAMOUS  SPALDING J5-V
THE BALL THAT GETS THE CALL 
IN AMERICA'S LEADING GRIDIRON CLASSICS 
AND IN MOST OF 
THE ANNUAL /I 
BOWL GAMES..1 
poets
Try our
HAMBURGERS
Made with 100% pure beef 
U. S. Government inspected
LARGE MILK SHAKES
Made with pure whole 
milk
RODGER'S
Oairy Stores
3905 FORBES STREET 
Near Boquet 
4619 CENTER AVENUE 
Near Craig 
5414 WALNUT STREET 
Shadyside 
Other stores downtown
Evening School 
Enrollment Drops
Uncertainty Over Draft Plus
Increased Tuition Causes Drop
The total Evening School Registration for the 1948-49 semester 
is 1258 as compared to the .1947-48 enrollment of 1380, a decrease 
of 10 percent. This is the lowest total enrollment since 1944-45 when 
880 were enrolled. Engineering and Science College decreased from 
---------------------------------------------*873 to 871 and Fine Arts decreasSocial Calendar
By Ray Sehwalm
Each year Evening Student 
Council seeks to provide the stu
dent with diversified social activ
ities. The purpose of these is to create fellowship and to estab
lish a means of recreation. This 
years program will open with a 
Smoker for the men to be held 
on October 23.
On the afternoon of this same day, the girls will be entertained 
at a tea sponsored by Evening 
Student Council and served by 
the girls of Phi Gamma Pi, wom
ens social fraternity.
On November 27, the annual 
Thanksgiving dance will be held 
in Thistle Hall. Evening school 
dances are held especially for 
the evening student but are open 
to any others who wish to attend.
The last social function of this 
year will be a Christmas assem
bly to be held just before recess 
and the Interfraternity Dance 
which will be held off campus on 
December 18. This dance will be a closed affair.
The social activities of the new 
year will feature a Pre-Lenten 
dance. Tentatively, it has been 
proposed that this dance be a semi-formal affair. The opinion 
of the students will be solicited at 
the Thanksgiving dance. At 
Easter recess, a special assembly, 
similar to the Christmas program, will be held.
Later in the year at a date to
was 19, down from 43 and General Subjects decreased from 111 
to 87.
The decrease in attendance can 
be partially attributd to the un
certainty brought about by the present National Draft Laws which 
are affecting a great number of 
the young people who would be eligible to attend school this fall. 
Possibly when the drafting be
comes organized the uncertainty 
will cease to exist and those men 
who are affected at present will 
be free to attend again.A certain amount of the de
crease can also be blamed on the increase in tuitions and cost of 
materials, yet it is to be conceded 
that the rise is consistent with the 
trend of the times.
be announced, the Engineers 
banquet will be held off campus. 
This is one of the most prominent 
affairs of the year.
Closing the social calendar will 
be a swimming party to be held 
in the gymnasium. As in past 
years, a party will be held after the swimming providing refresh
ments and dancing.
Council hopes this program will 
provide the student with the type 
of activities he desires and will support.________________________
Notice
Any student who did not re
ceive his handbook at registra
tion may have one by calling at 
Mr. McKelways office in In
dustries hall, Room 132-B.
ed from 353 to 281. Margaret Mor
rison Carnegie College enrollment
Special Student Rate Sale
ENDS THIS SATURDAY, OCT. 9 
GET YOUR SEASON TICKETS NOW TO
MAY BEEGLE CONCERTS
551 UNION TRUST BUILDING
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched to Wildrool Cream-Oil 
Because He Flunked The F*
The Carnegie Plaid
Page edited by Evening School Students 
of the Carnegie Institute of Technology
Editor ......................................................................... Lou Adams
Associate Editors ... Raymond Sehwalm, Charlene J. Tohey 
Circulation Manager.............................................George Dawes
Staff
Frank Mihelich, Bob Ellstrom, George Bogovich, Cecille 
Zellner. Pat Schaffer, Jim Flaherty.
Editorial
Plaid Ends Mailing
This year the Plaid is going to return to its wartime method 
of distribution. Rising costs have made last years method of 
mailing each issue to all the registered students highly imprac
tical. This year a plan is being worked out whereby a number 
of copies will be placed in boxes in the five major buildings 
on campus. Each evening starting with Wednesday, when the 
paper will be published, a new set of copies will be placed 
in the boxes to insure an equal chance for each student to 
get his Plaid. We hope that the evening students will become 
familiar with this method and make an effort to obtain a copy. 
We are not able at this time to give the locations of the boxes, 
but as soon as they are placed, announcements will be made.
About this time each year we make an appeal to all the 
evening students, and especially to those who are attending 
Carnegie Tech for the first time, :to join us in the various activi
ties which are sponsored by Evening Student Council. In the 
past five or six years almost all of the activities on campus have 
been handled by a small group of interested students. This situ
ation is unfair to the whole student body, for they do not get 
the benefit of a greater representation, and to the few who must 
do all the work.
The Plaid especially needs additions to its staff. At present 
most of the staff members are also on Student Council. This 
gives rise to the situation where the Plaid almost becomes the 
official organ of the student government rather than a student 
operated newspaper. The editors are looking for newcomers 
with interest and ability to work as typists and reporters. 
Anyone who wishes to aid in making the Plaid the best evening 
schoo1 newspaper in the country should come to our office in 
the Carnegie Union any Wednesday or Friday evening at 
9:30 p. in.
lsmi924 ILLINOIS* MICHIGAN GAME
REO GRANGE
POT ON FOOTBALLS GREATEST OtiE-MAN
_VOL.42N2oL.CCC
HE CARRIED THE BALL EXACTDf FIVE TIMES 
AND SCORED EXACTFIVE TOCKD0WNS
..."POOR. IN THETlRST 
TWELVE MINUTES1/
News
And
Views
by Frank Mihelich
Perhaps comments may not be 
necessary, yet a few hurrahs are 
due the registrar, his assistants, 
and the faculty for the efficient 
manner in which they handled 
registration. The time saved in 
enrolling gave the student more 
time for exchanging greetings 
with his fellow evening neighbors. 
Strange, but in many instances the evening student lets himself be
come ensnarred in curricula and 
schedules and does not see his 
neighbor again until another reg
istration. It is much like ships passing in the night.
It was nice to once again see Evening Student Council mem
bers distribute handbooks. The 
handbooks have always been a part of the evening students 
equipment, and the fact that it is back on the campus is to be taken 
as a good sign. The co-editors of the handbook, Will Schnarrenberger and Cecille Zellner, are to 
be congratulated for their good 
work.
Incidentally it may be a good thing to step into Registrar Mc
Kelways office to get a glimpse of the Evening Schools Achieve
ment Placque. It should be the goal of each students to some day 
get his name plate tacked to this 
plaque. It may also be interesting to again mention that Chester 
Biscup, Dal McKelway and Carl 
Muhlenbruch conceived and de
signed this evening school honor 
plaque.
Strolling about the campus re
vealed nothing new, except some 
new faculty members. Later, we 
intend to introduce these new faculty members to you through 
the medium of the Plaid.
We passed by Dean Dickinsons office in the Administration 
Building and noticed that he was 
open for business and ready to help any evening student who 
might have encountered difficul
ties.
If any of you fellows has an 
hour or so to donate for extra 
curricular activities, why not see 
council president, George Bogovich; social chairman, Ray 
Sehwalm, or Plaid editor, Lou 
Adams, and Im sure you fellows 
will never regret giving these fine 
boys a little assistance.
Passing by once more: Lets 
not remain like ships passing by 
at night, but lets get out and into activities and learn to live 
as a group whose community is the Carnegie Tech Evening Campus.
RODGER'S 
DAIRY
---------------------------------------------a
shaggy scalp. Itll be the ruin of you. Get busy with popular 
Wildroot Cream-Oil hair tonic. Its the berries! Just a little bit 
grooms your hair neatly and naturally without that plastereddown look. Relieves annoying dryness and removes ugly 
loose dandruff. Helps you pass the Finger Nail Test! Wildroot 
Cream-Oil is non-alcoholic . . . contains soothing Lanolin. Get 
a tube or bottle of Wildroot Cream-Oil today at any drug or 
toilet goods counter. Always ask your barber for a professional 
application. And bear this in mind  Wildroot Cream-Oil is 
again and again the choice of men who put good grooming 
first.
+ of 327 Burroughs Drive, Snyder, N. Y.
Wildroot Company, Inc, Buffalo 11, N. Y.

---------------------------------------------------

12THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1948
I smoked CHESTERFIELDS 
off stage while making my new 
picture, THE LOVES OF CARMEN. 
Theres no finer smoke. I know..
It's JI/IY cigarette."
STARRING IN
THE LOVES OF CARMEN
A COLUMBIA TECHNICOLOR PICTURB 
A BBCKWORTH CORPORATION PRODUCTION
tl Vadim, ABC GIRL of University of Colorado says*7 smoke Chesterfield because no other i 
brand can offer as MILD a smoke or as good- | 
tasting a smoke... they SATISFY.
MORE COLLEGE STUDENTS SMOKE CHESTERFIELDS 
than any other Cigarette... a watest nationaw survea
mm
mm
' . '' M//  '/
______*------------------------------------------------;---------------------d ecd emaKK * Mrm fhhTl k
Pep Squad Will Lead Cheers 
At Rally On Friday Night
Band Will Assemble Students on Morewood 
And MM Streets For March To The Cut
Carnegie Tech will hold its first bonfire rally of the year this 
Friday at 7:30 p. m. This pep meeting constitutes the first project 
which will be sponsored by the newly-organized Pep Squad.
At 7:15 the Kilties will march.*
Half of the band will gather on 
Margaret Morrison street near the 
mens dormitories, and the other 
half on Morewood avenue, be
tween Morewood Gardens and the 
fraternity houses. The band, fol
lowed by its respective groups of 
atudents, will march to the Cut, 
where everyone will congregate 
around the bonfire.
CIT students will be given an 
opportunity to brush up on their
cheers and songs, with the Kiltie 
band leading the music. Members 
of the team will be present.
The Pep Squad has also arrang
ed for mimeographed copies of the 
songs and cheers to be given out 
at the Forbes field gates before 
game time Saturday. During the 
gridiron battle with Marietta, the 
squad will sit in reserved seats to 
lend a professional hand to the 
cheer leaders.
Dr. Edmister 
Will Address 
AIChE Meeting
Dr. Edmister of the Chemical 
Engineering department will speak 
at .the opening meeting of the 
American Institute of Chemical 
Engineers in the Union, October 
8, at 8:00 p. m. He will be intro
duced by Dr. Carl Monrad, depayment head.
Dr. Edmister, the most recent 
addition to the chemical engineer
ing staff, entered the department 
this fall as a full professor. He 
has previously been employed by 
the Hydrocarbon Research cor
poration, the Standard Oil Com
pany of Indiana, and the FosterWheeler company. While working 
with Foster-Wheeler, he was sent 
to Europe and to South America 
on various problems.
NOTICE
We regret that lack of space 
forced us to omit a considerable 
quantity of advertising and news 
matter this week. The Gazette is 
printed in two sections, in the first 
of which often is carried material 
that would have been omitted in 
favor of some of that omitted from 
the last sectionhad we had on 
hand at the time it was needed the 
later material that is omitted. 
[From the Beaufort (S.C.) Ga
zette]
At the meeting Dr. Edmister 
will speak on The Chemical En
gineering Profession. There will 
also be an informal discussion 
period, and refreshments will be 
served. - Many members of the chemical 
engineering faculty will be pres
ent, and all students of chemical 
engineering are urged to attend, 
regardless of whether or not they 
are members of AIChE.
Carnegie Girl 
Plays Joan 
At Playhouse
Sada Thompson, senior drarr
student at Carnegie, will appe; 
in the lead of Maxwell Ande: Ji 
sons Joan of Lorraine. Mi , 
Thompson stars in the Pittsburgh Playhouses forthcoming present; 
tion of the well-known pi; which will run from October 
to November 6.
Miss Thompson, who has ap jp 
peared with the University Plaj ; 
ers of Mashpee, Massachusetts, ; 
well as in several Carnegie pro m 
ductions, has been highly praise 
by local critics for her perform / 
ances in Peg O My Heart an ' 1 
several other plays.
