Volume 96, Issue 3www.thetartan.org17 September 2001
LATEST NEWS:
5,000 MISSING IN 
NEW YORK CITY:
Mayor Rudolph Giuliani 
says 190 people have been 
identified. 18 firefighters 
are among the dead.
INDIA SHARES MILI
TARY DATA WITH US:
India has given FBI investi
gators documents about 
suspected terrorist camps 
in Afghanistan.
ASIAN MARKETS 
FALL MONDAY:
Tokyo stocks fell five per
cent and Hong Kong by 
four percent in anticpation 
of New Yorks opening.
.TUESDAY
Hi 71/Lo 52Carnegie Mellon s Student Newspaper Since 1906
PAKISTAN OFFICIALS 
IN AFGHANISTAN:
Arriving in Afghanistan, 
diplomats warn officials 
that failure to deliver bin 
Laden will result in war.
WEDNESDAY
Hi 72/Lo 54
THURSDAY
Hi 70/Lo 54
FRIDAY
Hi 71/Lo 52THE TARTAN
HOW YOU CAN HELP:
?ross 1-800-HELP-NOW 
1-866-DONORS-lBLOOD BANK
1-800-710-8002
of America
INSIDE THE TARTAN
Forum
Viewpoints from New York and 
abroad.
page A6 
Sports
The Athletic Department can
cels the weekends events 
despite hosting weekday 
games, 
page A12
Arts & Living
CMU campus pauses for
reflection.
page B1
Science and Technology
The World Trade Centers 
unique structure prevented 
more casualities.
page B6
Shaina McGrath/Photo Co-tditor
Minutes after the World Trade Center and the Pentagon were attacked by terrorists, students overcome with grief and confusion gathered together on the Cut.
by Justin Kerr
Junior Staffwriter 
& Nina Durai
Staffwriter
In a poignant event marked by 
quiet simplicity, five hundred stu
dents gathered at the Fence on 
Tuesday night to hold a candlelight 
vigil for the injured and dead from 
the mornings tragedy. Points of 
soft candlelight lit the lawn, as stu
dents took to the Fence, expressing 
their grief, condolences, and 
hopes, through words, songs and 
tears. The moving lyricism of 
Amazing Grace stilled the crowd 
into silence while the combined 
voices of the student body in My 
Country, Tis of Thee resonated 
with painful aptness into the night 
sky.
Many students shared their ini
tial disbelief at the surreal news, 
and their ensuing panic as they 
desperately tried to contact family 
and friends in New York, while oth
ers thanked the student body for 
showing its support. One speaker 
recalled how she was touched by a 
random act of kindness when she 
was given a hug and word of 
encouragement by a complete 
stranger as she went to class crying. 
Others spoke of how they knew 
everything was going to be all 
right, as there is another home, 
here at Carnegie Mellon.
Being a New Yorker, an 
American and a human being, I was
shocked like everyone else and at a 
loss for words. Being, so f,ar away 
from home, I fear driving back to 
my city and not being able to recog
nize it anymore, said Andress 
Appolon, a senior drama major in 
BHA. As for post-shock, I have the 
same question thats on everyones 
mind  Whats next? I pray for the 
families that have lost loved ones 
and for the people Ive lost.
The candlelight vigil, in spite of 
the inherently tragic tone, was 
characterized by an exceptional 
degree of maturity. A large num
ber of those who spoke touched on 
the importance of prayer and 
urged their peers not to perpetu
ate the cycle of hate and violence, 
but to keep those responsible for 
this terrible act in our prayers 
tonight. A majority stated that 
the war against terrorism was not 
a physical one and would only be 
won with unity and courage. It is 
my sincere hope and solemn 
prayer that we can fill our empti
ness with love and turn our anger 
and terror into peace, said 
Student Body Vice President Brian 
Namey.
Dean of Student Affairs Michael 
Murphy, closed the candlelight 
vigil with these words, In my 
twenty years here at Carnegie 
Mellon, I have never seen some
thing so amazing, with the stu
dents and' community coming 
together in a way like never 
before.
See REACTION, page B1
During Tuesday nights candlelight vigil, students reflect upon the days events.
A police otticer stands guard on Wall Street as markets prepare to open.
by Brad Grantz
Managing Editor
Whoever said robots dont have 
feelings hasnt visited the 
Carnegie Mellon Robotics 
Institute. Dr. Omead Amidi, a 
Robotics Institute researcher, has 
traveled east to Somerset County, 
along with one of the Institutes 
14-foot helicopters to aid the 
National Transportation Safety 
Board (NTSB) and the Federal 
Bureau of Investigation (FBI) in 
the mapping of the United 
Airlines Flight 93 crash site.
We went out there, were ready 
to fly and the NTSB was really 
psyched, said Amidi.
Despite the numerous test 
flights Amidi and his team have 
conducted in locations as
remote as the Arctic Circle, the 
FBI ultimately opted for more 
traditional mapping methods at 
the crash site. The helicopter 
crew-will remain on standby for 
^the next several days, as they 
are conducting mapping experi
ments in a nearby, but unrelat
ed, project. To test the profi
ciency of the helicopter system, 
the NTSB and FBI may request 
that CMU map the crash site 
during the closing stages of the 
investigation. According to 
Amidi, the FBI would prefer to 
remove the most critical pieces 
of debris at the site before rely
ing upon CMUs helicopter for 
assistance.
Carnegie Mellons involvement 
in the recovery of the remains of 
Flight 93 began after a few phone 
See HELICOPTER, page B7
IN WAKE OF A TRAGEDY, 
STUDENTS TAKE ACTION
by Sara Henneberger
News Editor
Since Tuesdays devastating 
attack on the nation, students have 
mounted a sweeping effort to aid 
those personally affected by the 
events. From donating blood, to 
raising funds for the Red Cross, to 
supporting one another emotional
ly, students at CMU have actively 
sought involvement in the recovery 
effort.
Campus community members 
responded in high numbers for 
Tuesdays Red Cross blood drive in 
the UC. Lines stretched into Kirr 
Commons, and some students were 
turned away as the number of 
donors overwhelmed Red Cross 
workers. According to President 
Cohon, campus members donated 
251 pints of blood to the Red Cross 
on Tuesday alone. Now, the 
Pittsburgh Red Cross is asking stu
dents interested in donating blood 
to wait. We currently have an over 
flux [of donors], said a Red Cross 
volunteer identified as Jessie. I
advise students to wait two or three 
weeks to give blood, said the vol
unteer, noting that national events 
could lead to another necessity for 
donated blood in the coming 
months.
Many student groups have altered 
their previously scheduled activities 
to incorporate fundraisers for the 
relief effort into their events. The 
Graduate Student Association 
(GSA) raised $650 for the American 
Red Cross at an event that had orig
inally been planned as gamethemed party with prizes. After 
Tuesdays attacks, the GSA decided 
to instead hold a raffle of donated 
prizes to raise funds for the Red 
Cross. Many merchants around 
Pittsburgh were willing to generous
ly provide us with prizes for the raf
fle, said Sarah Pressman, a doctor
al psychology student and vice pres
ident of GSA. It was actually very 
amazing  many of these prizes 
were just donated by these stores 
the day before the party. 
Approximately 400 graduate stu
dents attended the fundraiser.
See EFFORTS, page A3
CMU offers technical 
assistance in PA crash
The helicopter crew remains on standby at the crash site in Shanksville.
USA to Afghanistan: 
Hand over bin Laden
WASHINGTON (AP)  The Bush 
administration is signaling that time 
is running out for Afghanistans 
Taliban militia to avoid being target
ed for war, demanding leaders hand 
over terrorist Osama bin Laden or 
face Americas full wrath.
President Bush and his officials 
sought to draw a sharp line between 
nations that are allies and those that 
are targets as conflict draws nearer 
following last Tuesdays airborne 
attacks on New Yorks World Trade 
Center and the Pentagon.
The diplomatic pressure on 
Afghanistan came as Bush urged 
Americans to go back to work and get 
on with their lives.
Just like the farmers and ranchers 
and business owners and factory 
workers have a job to do, my admin
istration has a job to do, the presi
dent said as returned to the White 
House on Sunday afternoon. We 
will rid the world of the evildoers. We 
will call together freedom-loving 
people to fight terrorism.
There were plenty of signs the 
nation was getting back to business. 
The New York Stock Exchange and 
the Mercantile Exchange, as well as 
City Hall and other government 
buildings and courthouses in New 
York were to reopen Monday.
We think were ready for it, 
Mayor Rudolph Giuliani said Sunday. 
Some of it obviously... is trial and 
error. Investors anxiously awaited
the markets reopening.
Baseball returns Monday night 
with a flurry of US flags that will 
adorn players caps and uniforms. 
God Bless America is set to replace 
Take Me Out to the Ball Game as 
the traditional crowd sing-along dur
ing the seventh inning stretch.
As Americans sought to move for
ward, the investigation into the twin 
terrorist attacks continued.
Authorities arrested a second man 
as a witness in connection with the 
plot. They have detained 25 people in 
the investigation for possible immi
gration violations.
Many of the men have links to bin 
Laden, according to US officials. On 
Sunday, bin Laden denied playing .a 
role in the attacks.
Bush shrugged off the denial and 
said, No question, he is the prime 
suspect. No question about that.
Hope of finding survivors in the 
smoldering ruins of the World Trade 
Center was dying.
By Sunday, 180 were confirmed 
dead at ground zero in New York; the 
number of missing was 5,097. In the 
Pentagon attack, 188 were believed 
dead.
Federal emergency workers at 
both sites were trying to balance the 
need to move quickly through the 
rubble with their duty to pluck out 
any evidence they came across.
The US warnings to Afghanistan 
See ATTACK, page A3

---------------------------------------------------

11111  ;; 041
E
Delivering Caireort: Taste'
JL I^arae^Pt^za
'V. * .-ft,-; V^V, - P1 *$
C > ? S NIf $ Ilf  '
:/X' f | ^ 'BveryiPi
V:-:-: ***---*-*
Tracfitiomil and Thin Cruf only!
FREE DELIVERY! No coupon necessary. 
UmStei time offer. Plus applicable fas*. 
Offer Valid at 5th Av. and 
Baum Blvd. fore* only. ,
a Add 2-titer Pepsin* Diet Pepsic or 
Ml. Dew for only $1.991
Crtwrmttee U% t&e Business*
jp&sa comes with 100% fresh and natural' ingredients. Mndour 100% guarantee: Ify&ti are not 200%
- , satisfied -uHth ourproduclor sentice. cailiiswitfnn 6 hours and return the product, *We'il rep (ace it free argi&e you a lGO% refund 
HMMH I  (Because at (Pizza. Out&t, the customer comes first.
1 FREE Garlic Dipping Sauce with every pizza purchased
now accepting Mgg^j [^v/^T
3608 5th Ave. 
(412)687-4666 
4740 Baum Blvd.
Sunday -Thursday, 11 AM, - 2 AM, Friday & Saturday, 11 AM. - 3 A.M.
DDDelivvrngCaoCetn:
NEW YORK (AP)  Investors 
faced a wrenching weekend waiting 
for the stock markets to reopen 
Monday: Will selloffs further harm 
an already shaky economy? Or 
could patriotism save the day?
The New York Mercantile 
Exchange, New York Stock 
Exchange, Nasdaq, and American 
Stock Exchange have been closed 
since Tuesday, when two hijacked 
planes left Wall Street a disaster 
area. Four days will have passed 
when the markets begin trading 
again.
The fear factor right now is 
extremely high. Many people are of 
a mind to just get out of the market 
while they can, said Alan 
Ackerman, executive vice president 
of Fahnestock & Co.
On the other hand, he said, pro
fessionals and experienced investors 
know that patience pays off. So, 
hopefully the fear factor could be 
somewhat limited.
Some analysts believe national 
pride might help support the mar
ket.
There seem to be a lot of patriots 
who are determined to make sure 
that these terrorists are not success
ful in shutting down our capitalist 
markets, said James O. Collins, 
chief executive of Insight Capital
Research and Management in 
Walnut Creek, Calif.
Arthur Hogan, chief market ana
lyst at Jefferies & Co., said he doubts 
there will be a selling frenzy, pre
dicting that because of the tragedy, 
everyone is going to sort of keep 
their head down, be careful, and not 
make big bets. He also said because 
the market has been closed since 
Monday, investors might be less like
ly to make emotional decisions.
When companies repurchase 
stock  as many did after the 1987 
crash  investors are often reas
sured, believing that the nations 
companies are expressing confi
dence in themselves, the market, 
and the economy.
Analysts also pointed out that the 
market has other safeguards to keep 
it from falling too sharply  the cir
cuit breakers that halt trading after 
the Dow falls 1,100 points, 2,150 
points, and 3,250 points.
Some individual investors said the 
terror of Tuesday will move them to 
buy stocks.
These terrorists were trying to 
destroy our economic system as well 
as break our spirits. I think we can 
make our country stronger by 
investing in the stock market right 
now. It will show the world that we 
are resilient.__
I am mating a difference
'Were all hurt amFsaddened by the terrible tragedies.t
Btff its important to do something. To help out. I'm 
gofng to donate blood beeausc 1 know it will help 
save lives. 1 dont mind waiting in line because it's 
sgH important. 1'his is where 1 want to be. With other
people who want to help too.
P 1 g, i he American Red Cross is profoundly grateful to 
* H I all blood donors everywhere, every day We are espck - daily proud of your commitment to help save a lift:
in the ^vs. weeks and months ahead. We could not 
s>a\e Hvct,uithout Mayo
Airlines in
financial
turmoil
::NEW YORK (AP) - The nations 
commercial airlines, hobbled by a loss 
in revenue and public confidence 
after Tuesdays terrorist attacks, are 
expected to seek a government 
bailout of between $10 billion and 
$20 billion.
"In the European countries, the 
security measures are the responsibil
ity of the governments, Delta Air 
Lines chairman and chief executive 
Leo F. Mullin said Sunday on ABCs 
This Week. I favor, and I believe most 
of my colleagues in the industry, favor 
the government taking over all of 
this.
Transportation Secretary Norman 
Y. Mineta said Sunday he has appoint
ed two task forces to find ways to 
improve security in airports and 
onboard airliners. They are to make 
detailed recommendations by 
October 1.
Carriers are expected to appeal for 
direct aid, low-interest loans, tax relief 
and for a government takeover of 
insurance liability from claims related 
to the terrorist acts.
. On Saturday, Congress defeated a 
bill that would have provided $2.5 bil
lion in cash assistance and another 
$12.5 billion in loan guarantees to the 
airline industry, with members object
ing to helping a single industry among 
many hurt by the attacks.
Continental chairman and CEO 
Gordon Bethune said his airline could 
be bankrupt by October without a 
government transfusion.
Bethune announced Saturday that
12,000 Continental employees will be 
furloughed immediately, to cut losses 
of $30 million a day. Continental is 
flying half-full planes on just 55 per
cent of its recent schedule, he said.
. The nations nine largest carriers 
are coping with $100 million to $250 
million per day in lost revenue from 
ticket sales and cargo charges, while 
paying fixed costs such as salaries and 
rent for jets and hangar space, said 
John Heimlich, director of economic 
and market research for the Air 
Transport Association of America, an 
industry trade organization.
American, Northwest, Delta and 
United also announced schedule cut
backs. Delta expected to fly 75 per
cent of its normal schedule by 
Sunday, said spokeswoman Peggy 
Estes. United, American and 
Northwest plan to operate at 80 per
cent of their normal schedules, repre
sentatives said.
The industry was already strug
gling under a large debt burden and 
rising costs of labor and fuel, as rev
enues from business class passengers 
dropped alongside the nations eco
nomic performance, while carriers 
cut fares to compete for remaining 
passengers.
Corrections & Clarifications
The Tartan corrects all known errors of 
fact. If you know of an error, please contact 
Editors-in-Chief Aseem Gupta and Sara 
Stille at X8-2111 or 
tartan@andrew.cmu.edu.
A2 THE TARTAN  SEPTEMBER 17, 2001
Please call t-800-GIVE LIFE
to schedule your lifesaving appointment to give blood.+
 American Red Cross
Together, we can save a life
Patriotism could 
save Wall Street
Two observers look over the New York City skyline which was forever altered by Tuesdays attacks on the WTC.Mayor Giuliani somber as New York City struggles
NEW YORK (AP)  With hopes 
fading on Sunday that any more 
survivors would be found amid the 
dust, steam and gore that is now the 
World Trade Center, Mayor 
Rudolph Giuliani urged New 
Yorkers not to cower before terror
ism.
The life of the city goes on, said 
Giuliani. He said 180 people had 
been confirmed dead, 115 of whom 
had been identified. Eighteen city 
firefighters were among the con
firmed dead, including two top offi
cials. The total number of missing 
was raised by more than 100 on 
Sunday, to 5,097.
The recovery effort continues 
and the hope is still there that we 
might be able to save some lives. 
But the reality is that in the last sev
eral days we havent found anyone, 
Giuliani said.
A high ranking police official, 
speaking on condition of anonymi
ty, said workers werent even find
ing bodies, only body parts. No one 
has been pulled alive from the 
wreckage since Wednesday, the day 
after two hijacked jetliners were 
crashed into the Trade Centers twin 
towers.
We cant even find concrete; its 
dust. What were calling bodies 
arent really bodies, the official 
said.
Much of downtown Manhattan 
was to.re-open Monday with the 
help of a new service, a ferry carry
ing passengers between Brooklyn 
and Manhattan. The Empire State 
Building, which has been dark since 
the attacks, was lit Sunday night in 
red, white and blue.
Speaking at a morning news con
ference, Giuliani said one way to 
deal with the trauma is to show
how strong we are and how terror
ists cant cower us.
Go ahead and go about the 
everyday activities, he urged. Go 
to church on Sunday. If you go to a 
park and play with your children, 
do that. If you like to go out and 
spend money, I would encourage 
that. Its always a good thing.
Hundreds celebrated Mass at 
New Yorks St. Patricks Cathedral, 
where Cardinal Edward Egan urged 
parishioners to commune with God 
to ease their grief.
Giuliani also encouraged people 
from around the country to come 
here and spend money. He noted 
theatergoers might even attain 
what once seemed impossible: seats 
for the citys most popular 
Broadway show.
You might actually have a better 
chance of getting tickets to The 
Producers now, if you want to come 
here and see it, he said.
Barbara Anschuetz, a trauma 
therapist from Toronto in town to 
work with victims and survivors of 
the attacks, offered similar advice
 and meant to follow it herself. 
Standing in Times Square with a 
team of colleagues, she was looking 
to purchase tickets for a comedy.
We thought coming to a show in 
the evening, some time next week, 
when weve had pretty intense days, 
would help provide a sense of nor
malcy and relief for us, Anschuetz 
said.
Later Sunday, Giuliani offered a 
personal story about perseverance. 
Addressing a ceremony in which 
168 firefighters were promoted, the 
mayor said he had an uncle whose 
legs were broken when he was 
thrown from a ladder truck while 
answering a false alarm.
One of my earliest memories is 
his talking about wanting to go back 
to work. It was the thing that got 
him through, the thing that sus
tained him, he said.
The Fire Department, in the worst 
tragedy it has experienced since its 
first engine companies were formed 
in 1865, lost about 300 members in 
the trade center carnage.
Through black and white swirls of 
smoke, rusty-looking remains of the 
centers once-shining exterior stood 
at precarious angles. But the rescue 
work  dusty, sweaty, and likely in 
vain  continued.
Among the grisly finds have been 
a pair of hands, bound together, 
found on a rooftop. Another was 
the torso of a Port Authority police 
officer, identified by the radio still 
hanging from his belt.
James Monsini, a volunteer and 
demolition expert from Brockton, 
Mass., said he and somertellow 
workers were concentrating on sub
basement level garages and shops. 
He said they were hoping for air 
pockets that would allow victims  
perhaps trapped in their cars  to 
breathe.
I saw a car with an interior light 
on, and I got really hopeful that it 
was a sign (of life), he said. But 
the person was dead.
Another volunteer, steamfitter 
James Drew, said there was so much 
glass, hot metal, and other debris on 
the ground that firefighters had to 
carry bootie-wearing search dogs 
where they were needed.
Drew also described a search 
technique he called shave and a 
haircut: Rescuers tap in rhythm on 
steel or concrete, hoping for taps in 
response.
No one has been answering.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  SEPTEMBER 17, 2001 A3
JEWELERS
rocks.
Pittsburgh 
412. 421.6777
ATTACK, from page A1 
intensified Sunday as the administra
tion zeroed in on bin Laden and the 
Taliban.
The government of Afghanistan 
has to understand that we believe 
they have, indeed, been harboring a 
man who committed and whose 
organization committed this most 
egregious act, Vice President Dick 
Cheney said on NBCs Meet the Press.
They have to understand, and 
others like them around the world 
have to understand, that if you pro
vided sanctuary to terrorists, you 
face the full wrath of the United 
States of America.
Secretary of State Colin Powell 
used the same full wrath language 
in his TV appearances. Powell said 
the Taliban faces a simple choice:
Deliver bin Laden or face near-cer
tain retaliation.
Meanwhile, the United States 
turned to Pakistan as a potential ally 
in hunting down bin Laden. 
Pakistan sent senior officials to 
neighboring Afghanistan to warn 
the Taliban that it faces a massive 
assault if it does not hand over the 
fugitive, a top Pakistani official said, 
speaking on condition of anonymity.
Bin Laden has been indicted in the 
1998 bombing of two US embassies 
in east Africa and linked to the 1993 
World Trade Center bombing. The 
administration also pressed for 
more tools to combat terrorists at 
home and abroad.
Stressing the need for swift 
action, Attorney General John 
Ashcroft and FBI Director Robert
Mueller consulted with congressioi 
al leaders by phone and in person ^ 
FBI headquarters.
We need... to elevate the pena| 
ties for those who would harbor 
assist terrorists to at least the sar 
level as the penalties for those wl 
would harbor, assist those who ha\ 
been involved in espionagel 
Ashcroft said from Camp David, M<[ 
People who harbor terrorists no] 
face five-year prison terms.
Transportation Secretary Norms 
Y. Mineta announced a task force 
experts to report back by Oct. 1 
ways to increase airport and ajj 
plane security, particularly the sec 
rity of cockpits. He also said all 
and natural gas pipeline operate 
had been directed to take steps 
implement security measures.
Facing massive debt, Highlander looks to specialty food vendors
by Pearl S. Goldman
Junior Staffwriter
Two years ago, 
Highlander Caf and its 
all-you-can-eat buffet 
was a success among 
students. However, in 
the past year, 
Highlander has experi
enced a significant 
decline in patronage. 
This semester,
Highlander has relin
quished all of its ven
dors except for a second 
branch of Taste of India, 
which is open for dinner 
only.
During Highlanders 
heyday, first-year stu
dents were required to 
use their meal blocks at 
either Schatz Dining 
Room or Highlander for 
breakfast, lunch or din
ner. Last spring, 
Parkhurst Dining
Services, a division of 
Eat n Park Restaurants, 
assumed official man
agement of University 
Dining Services after a 
year-long trial manage
ment period. Battling 
University Dining
Services $8 million dol
lar debt incurred from 
the construction of 
Highlander and consis
tent operating deficits, 
Parkhurst altered the 
format of several oncampus eateries and 
ended the buffet-style 
dining at Highlander. 
After undergoing exten
sive renovations
amounting to $210,000 
during the summer of 
2000, Highlander 
reopened last fall offer
ing a variety of vendors 
that charged students 
for individual food 
items. The new format 
proved to be unpopular 
among students, and
Highlanders losses dur
ing the last academic 
year were slated to be 
over $700,000.
In response to poor 
student patronage and 
growing debt, Parkhurst 
Dining Services decided 
to close all Highlander 
vendors this fall and 
open a second branch of 
Taste of India in the 
Highlander facility. The 
other location of Taste 
of India remains open in 
the Old Student Center 
across campus from 
Highlander.
The current state of 
Highlander Caf has 
resulted in mixed feel
ings among students. 
While some are pleased 
with the addition of a 
specialty food vendor in 
the Hill area of campus, 
which is separated from 
the Chinese food in 
Wean Hall and the origi
nal site of Taste of India 
in the Old Student 
Cenl^r, other students 
want to see the large 
space Highlander occu
pies be utilized.
Its a huge space. You 
go there and theres 
nothing, said Joey 
Hyde, a first-year 
mechanical engineering 
major. Its a waste.
Hyde added that a 
larger number of spe
ciality vendors should 
be placed in the vacant 
Highlander space. It 
would be nice to have 
more variety close to 
where I live [in 
Donner], said Hyde. 
They should add a 
Chinese vendor in 
Highlander.
According to Neal 
Binstock, assistant vice 
president for Business 
Services, the main 
objective of University 
Dining Services and
Parkhurst Dining
Services is to seek input 
from the changing 
diversity of the campus 
community. The addi
tion of Taste of India to 
another section of cam
pus was the collaborat
ed idea of Taste of India 
owner Mr. Singh and 
Jane Fahringer,
Parkhurst Manager at 
CMU. Realizing that his 
eatery in The Old 
Student Center drew an 
influx of students from 
all parts of campus, 
Singh approached 
Fahringer with the idea 
that a second branch of 
Taste of India could 
bring in revenue to 
Highlander. A new plan 
was soon put into 
action: the Old Student 
Center branch of Taste 
of India would be open 
for lunch in an effort to 
be convenient for gradu
ate students, and the 
Highlander branch 
would be open for din
ner to cater to the resi
dential students in its 
vicinity.
During the first few 
weeks of the fall semes
ter, the Highlander 
branch of Taste of India 
has shown to be success
ful. The number of stu
dents dining at the 
Highlander facility has 
risen from the all-time 
low of less than 100 cus
tomers per day during 
April and May last 
semester. However, 
Dining Services fears 
that the popularity of 
Taste of India may not 
be enough to help bring 
Highlander out of debt. 
For students to maintain 
interest in Highlander, 
there must be more than 
one vendor located in 
the facility.
Some students feel
the dramatic redution of 
vendors in Highlander 
has limited their overall 
food choices on campus. 
If freshmen are 
required to be on the 
meal plan, there should 
be more choices, said 
Ebone Sprgan, a firstyear business major. I 
eat the same selection 
every day.
More specialty food 
would help benefit stu
dents, said Suhana 
Deleon, a first-year 
physics major. Deleon 
also suggested that 
Dining Services should 
try to put more speciali
ty foods into 
Highlander. 
Highlander does not 
need the same vendors 
as the UC, the 
Underground, and the 
O, said Deleon.
Current juniors and 
seniors remember the 
high point of Highlander 
when the all-you-caneat buffet gave them not 
only plenty of food for 
their money, but a slow, 
relaxing atmosphere. 
People used to sit down 
and eat a lot  it was a 
social activity, said 
Penelope Bigelow, a 
junior chemical engi
neering major. Now, 
without a buffet, stu
dents are always on the
go.
Despite serious issues 
of debt and student 
patronage facing
Highlander, Binstock 
and Fahringer note that 
28 percent more upper
classmen this year are 
on meal plans than last 
year. An increase in stu
dents using meal plans 
and patronizing oncampus vendors may 
help bolster the rev
enues of all on-campus 
eateries.
Chief Doyle and Dean Murphy meet with students during Friday afternoons presentation about personal safety.
University addresses safety of 
students in aftermath of attacks
by Sara Henneberger
News Editor
In the aftermath of Tuesdays ter
roristic acts, the University has taken 
steps to ensure the safety of its cam
pus community members. Campus 
Police, the administration, and stu
dent groups have publicly addressed 
the issue of safety on campus in the 
days following the attacks.
University security was' bolstered 
immediately following the 
September 11 terrorism. At 10:30 
am on Tuesday, the Software 
Engineering Institute (SEI) on Fifth 
Avenue was evacuated. The Institute 
had not received any specific threats 
in relation to the attacks, yet accord
ing to Shane McGraw of Customer 
Relations at SEI, the building was 
cleared because of SETs close rela
tionship with the Department of 
Defense. Work resumed at SEI on 
Wednesday with safety precautions 
in place. All outside doors at SEI 
will remain locked indefinitely, said 
McGraw.
Campus Police increased foot 
patrol units on campus following 
Tuesdays attacks to establish a visi
ble police force for students who may 
have been feeling uneasy. Patrols 
were especially concentrated around 
campus buildings with national con
nections. The National Robotics 
Institute and the SEI were the most 
obvious areas where there could 
have been problems, said Sergeant 
Budzik of Campus Police. Were 
now in a heightened state of security 
with everything thats happened.
Campus Police held safety presen
tations on Thursday and Friday for 
students, faculty, and staff members 
of the University. Campus Police 
Chief Creig Doyle provided atten
dees with basic safety tips for night 
travel and for trips off campus, 
including the importance of travel
ing in groups, pre-planning routes, 
and keeping a charged cell phone
close at hand to call for help. Much 
of the advice Doyle offered stemmed 
from common sense approaches to 
safety that students may not have 
given thought to before Tuesdays 
events. We all need to take the time 
to ensure our personal safety, said 
Doyle. If youre going to go into 
Oakland and something unpleasant 
were to happen, you need to have 
thought ahead about what you 
could do to help yourself or a fellow 
student.
We dont want to panic people, 
but wed rather be half a step ahead 
and have people be a little more con
cerned [about personal safety] than 
half a step behind, said Michael 
Murphy, dean of Student Affairs, at 
Fridays safety presentation.
Concerns for personal safety on 
campus stem in part from reports of 
harassment of Muslims and people 
of Middle Eastern background across 
the nation. As of Saturday, Campus 
Police had not received any reports 
of attacks on campus or in Pittsburgh 
of people because of their racial or 
religious background. However, sev
eral students on campus have experi
enced racial slurs yelled at them 
from cars in recent days, as a victim 
of one such harassment discussed at 
the safety presentation.
Students are really worried 
because of how the media has por
trayed this, said Syed Hussain, a 
senior physics major and president 
of the Muslim Student Association at 
CMU. We have a very educated 
campus and tend to think before we 
act, but this may not be the same in 
all of Pittsburgh. Syed encouraged 
students who feel threatened 
because of their race or religion to 
just avoid confrontation. He said 
that Tuesdays terrorism is not repre
sentative of the worlds large Muslim 
population and that people must 
learn that Islam does not advocate 
violence against civilians.
Chief Doyle also urged students to 
be wary of harassment against
Muslims and people of Middle 
Eastern background. Events like 
[those on Tuesday] can bring out the 
lunatic fringe in society, said Doyle. 
With a nationalistic, ultra-patriotic 
response [across the country], Im 
afraid people will get hurt. Doyle 
did caution that students should be 
careful of the rumor mill regarding 
reports of attacks against Muslims 
and people of Middle Eastern back
ground. Theres a lot of [false] 
information out there right now, 
especially on the Internet.
Tuesdays events have brought 
student awareness of security to  
high level. According to Doyle, 
Campus Police will continue to have 
increased numbers of foot patrols on 
campus to reassure students in the 
coming days. Doyle also said that 
Campus Police, the University 
administration, and Pittsburgh City 
Police will remain in close contact to 
address issues of harassment against 
city residents and campus members 
of Muslim or Middle Eastern back
ground.
Both the administration and 
Campus Police believe that students 
have the ability to protect them
selves in the wake of Tuesday^ 
tragedy.
As the focus of attention now 
turns toward identifying those 
responsible for these acts of terror
ism, some have seized this opportu
nity to lash out, causing further 
harm to innocent people simply 
because they are, or are presumed to 
be, Muslim or from the Middle East  
said President Cohon in an email t 
the campus community on 
Thursday. All students, faculty and 
staff, particularly those who might 
have reason to be directly con
cerned, should exercise common 
standards of personal safety. Make 
every effort not to walk alone at I 
night, avail yourself of the University 
Escort Service, and avoid being [ 
alone in unfamiliar areas off cam
pus, said Cohon.Students offer support to victims 
through blood drive, fund raisers
EFFORTS, from page Al 
People were incredibly 
generous, with some buy
ing $20 in raffle tickets on 
their own, said 
Pressman.
Students in the service 
fraternity Alpha Phi 
Omega have taken on the 
task of organizing fund 
raising for other student 
organizations. Weve 
been helping with the 
logistical issues of fund
raising  counting, secur
ing, and sending the 
money, said Dewitt 
Latimer, a graduate stu
dent in civil engineering 
and a member of Alpha Phi 
Omega. We were thinking 
on Tuesday what we could 
do to help, and realized we
record for collecting 
money for the relief 
effort. Latimer explained 
that the organization has a 
reputation for a well-estab
lished financial infrastruc
ture and that the 
University administration 
agreed that the fraternity 
could serve as the central 
fund collectors on campus. 
Many student events to be 
held during the next two 
weeks will include repre
sentatives from Alpha Phi 
Omega to help with fund 
raising. All funds are 
going directly to the New 
York chapter of the Red 
Cross, said Latimer. 
Latimer suggested that 
donating money to the Red 
Cross is a way for students
the relief effort. We want
ed a way for students to 
feel like theyre doing 
something to help, said 
Latimer.
In an effort to support 
one another emotionally 
after Tuesdays attacks, stu
dents gathered daily last 
week for group counseling 
sessions in the UC. The 
initial response for many 
people [after a tragedy] is 
to want to be with peers, 
said Cindy Valley, director 
of Counseling and 
Psychological Services at 
CMU. Valley said that the 
number of students visiting 
Counseling and
Psychological Services has 
slowed since Tuesday, but 
that she anticipates more
as the initial shock of the 
tragedy wears off. To help I 
students in the upcoming I 
weeks, Valley and the I 
Student Dormitory Council] 
are organizing long-term! 
student support groups. 
Were putting together 
support group for student 
from New York and were 
thinking about what othe 
support groups might be 
wanted by students, saic 
Valley. In the meantime] 
we will continue to offeif 
daily group sessions in the 
UC everyday.
Fund-raising, education] 
al, and community evenra 
related to the terrorisl 
attacks will continue ne> 
week as the campuj 
responds to Tuesday]
could use our trusted track to directly participate in students seeking assistance tragedy.US demands surrender of bin Laden

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  SEPTEMBER 17, 2001
Crime and Incident Report
Medical, 9/8/01, 3:19 PM -
Campus police and EMS respond
ed to the UC womens locker 
room where it was reported that 
an eight year old girl had passed 
out. The patients mother was on 
scene and said that the girl had 
been using the sauna prior to 
passing out in the shower. The 
patients mother requested an 
ambulance, and city medics pro
vided transport to the hospital.
Medical, 9/8/01, 11:00 PM
- A student reported that he had 
been bitten by a large brown spi
der on his right forearm. The vic
tim said that his arm was stinging 
and that the spider had been the 
size of a half dollar. A campus 
police officer transported the vic
tim to the hospital.
Criminal Mischief, 9/8/01, 
11:53 AM - A staff member 
called campus police to report 
that person(s) unknown had 
attempted to pull a water foun
tain off of the wall in West Wing. 
The responding officer discov
ered a water fountain leaking due 
to person(s) unknown pushing 
down upon or sitting on top of it. 
Only a small amount of water 
could be detected on the floor. 
CPS was paged for clean-up but 
did not respond. FMS was also 
notified and responded to the 
area. The officer taped a plastic 
bag around the fountain so that it 
would not be used until the prop
er repairs had been made.
Incident, 9/9/01, 12:01
AM - Six officers responded to 
the fraternity quad for a report 
that nine males were getting 
r^ady to fight. Upon arrival, the 
officers recognized two of the 
actors as non-CMU students who 
h&d recently received citations 
Icjr unlawfully entering a fraterni
ty house on campus and breaking 
a;glass mirror. According to one 
of the male actors at the scene, 
the two non-CMU students had 
free again trespassed on the frate'rnity quad and one had begun 
to run his mouth at several fraternity members. The said nonCMU student had told the frater
nity members that he would take 
all of them on if he had to. An 
officer advised the two non-CMU 
students that they would be 
arrested if found trespassing on 
campus again.
Theft/Vandalism, 9/10/01, 
2:02 PM - A CMU staff member 
in the UC called campus police to 
report that the sign of a vendor 
soliciting on campus had been 
vandalized. Upon arrival, the 
officer discovered a solicitors 
sign had been vandalized in the 
courtyard area between the UC 
and West Wing. The sign, valued 
at $500, had been written on with 
blue permanent marker. Phrases 
written on the sign included you 
suck and get off leave our cam
pus. A solicitor for a different 
vendor present on campus that 
day had observed an individual 
vandalizing the sign and was able 
to provide the officer with a phys
ical description of the actor. 
When the solicitor had tried to 
question the actor, the actor had 
said get off our campus.
Harassment, 9/10/01, 
2:30 PM - A campus security 
guard radioed campus police that 
a representative of a credit card 
company was being harassed by a 
college-aged person in front of 
Doherty Hall. An officer respond
ed and spoke with the solicitor, 
who stated that a college-aged 
person had recently walked up to 
his table, picked up a clip board, 
and thrown it down, yelling 
youre not supposed to be here 
and get out. The actor then 
went to the second table of the 
company, took several t-shirts, 
and ran towards Baker Hall. The 
solicitor said that the actor had 
not physically harmed him or 
anyone else at the scene.
Illegal Solicitation,
9/10/01, 4:50 PM - Two offi
cers responded to the area out
side of Resnick and spoke with a 
representative of a bank who was
giving applications to students. 
The solicitor admitted that she 
did not have a permit to solicit on 
campus. The officers told her that 
she must have a permit to solicit 
students and that she must leave 
campus. At that point, the solici
tor appeared to head off campus. 
However, campus police received 
complaints approximately an 
hour later that the same person 
was approaching students out
side of the Purnell Center. The 
solicitor told the responding offi
cers that she was no longer solic
iting students and that she was 
just looking for her cousin 
because the cousin had her car 
keys. The solicitor was told that if 
she was found on campus again, 
she would be arrested.
Harassment, 9/12/01, 7:14
PM - A CMU student reported to 
campus police that a 35-year-old 
Asian male had been harassing 
her. The actor frequents the stu
dents place of employment and 
questions her fellow employees 
about her schedule. The victim 
had believed the harasser to be 
harmless, yet the day before he 
had stopped her on the Cut and 
given her a present of a canister 
of mace. The actor is reportedly a 
student at the University of 
Pittsburgh and seems to be 
slow. Campus police have had 
contact with the actor and will 
continue to monitor the situation.
- Campus Sergeant Ricci reviews 
all reports prior to release.
- Only three people on The 
Tartan staff see the reports: the 
Editors-in-Chief and the News 
Editor.
- All personal names of com
plainants, victims, suspects, and 
fraternities are omitted from the 
printed report. Ethnic descriptions 
and other personal details are 
given only in the context of com
plete descriptions.
- Not every incident that occurs 
appears in the report.
Compiled by 
Sara Henneberger
^ofVotchrArt tenth
CAU US 
412-6*3.I^^I
hnax
l^nsor ^?A/fcu/4on 
AeryJL-csh~JP?c * 
ottle s
7.70
_ Hi nf St
FA X *
Pack
jjTTUeJ ^oor^l
VV-n$.r<?A/e^+*' 
W I*fv ton O  / S$ 19-95- red hv
- c*d yg[/ow
 Fffrt h olin * &
 7" ^
bOpw
r
fro fa 5$ <*0 ^ ^ 
FVn.ty Ac'Yl!c* 
fa On I fvbebcga>
Top of I*!
acr\j\;cS
v.'SioV4tryU5
fo7o
________________sr.; 75^ ,, 5*|e p-,- o*
lMi. one C0"rfi5evr 
(SOT L-'^V1 ^ " toiler -VIA*
$.75*
- Coupon -
75< off '
t
*f7oS 
e,;rn anyJ  - Y' ' 0i0t, I *.>. **** I I\ ew9. f-a'i-oi/i p*r.est"'\o4icwu___,* JunioJ sr*e.'
USAtSoU tcA2'l^' fghamer; Pe/ieziA
rRMu5,0MIr'
507.
meri Vent* 
WAlEMolofil 1u
rv /1 / i v &
$116 per TVF
/j|{ So+h Cr*:y 5+reef FSL\,rt-f
Pr Sha inM /3
f*N
WT: I 
Si/i -' l'i
c(( t/s if yv 3et foit if!2- 6^3-4w
Forr umView 
rpntis fNNY
ktwaThe faculty and staff of the College of Humanities and Social Sciences 
congratulate the following students for their outstanding academic 
performances during the Spring 2001 semester.
SeniorsConstantinos MarinakisLauren GrimEric Wolfson (BHA)Akilesh RajanHyoung Kwon*
Samina Akbari (BHA)Joshua McConnell*Aseem GuptaHung WongEmma RehmMyung Kyu Lee
Kimberly AigeriMaria Meza (BHA)Peter Gwinn*Matthew WoodJennifer ResickWei-Yung Lee*
Joshua Anderson (BHA)Shane Miner (BHA)Joshua Halko (BHA)Sunny YangMark RistainoDavid Lin*
Neema AvashiaAngela Modzelewski (BHA)Michael HandkeEric Sceusi (SHS)Justin Liok
Charles Ballowe*William MorganMarika HaritosSophomoresJennifer Scftaupp*Christopher Loh*Liam Barber (BHA)Saiako Nagara*Ish Harshawat*Jason AppleBrian SchenkerJoanna Lovering (BHA)
Rebecca BarkinWu Ngau*Jesse HauslerEric Barker*Levi SigworthAbigail Luff*Stacey BeckerDoukuninhe OkonnyRyan Hennessy*Danielle BennettChe So*Charlotte Maclennan (BHA)Michael Beuselinck (BHA)Russell OLare*Ayako HirofujiKenneth Berger*Christina StrellecCynthia Maletz (BHA)Juliet Bey*Damian OlesnyckyMargo Hofmann (BHA)Gillian Brigham*Erin Szeio*Joshua Maszle*Julie BogartStephen OpalenskiTanveer HossainErika Burkhalter*Teeravit Tharmmaphornphiias*Maria MatuscakLuke Brindle*Benjamin Pillet*Angel JaenPeter CaprarielloBuraskom TorutJames McBride*Emily BrungoJodi Poniev/az*Brigitte JoffeBryan ChangKimberley VictorHeather McKnight* (SHS)Mercer Bufter*Kyle PopkaveRaina Jones*Amanda Chase (SHS)Kenneth Weaver* (SHS)Richard McMahonPeter BurchBrittany PowellPaul KatzClarence Cheung*Brandon Weber*Tonnie NgZeljka Buturovic Bradaric*Aaron PowersScott Kaufiman*Meagan Ciesla*Elizabeth WeissHirokazu NiheiGiulia CallaShivdev Rao*Benjamin Kay*Melissa Clark (BHA)Julie Wong*Julie Nusser (BHA)Katherine CalverAnne RayDavid Kent*Dan Concepcion*Cindy Yang* (SHS)Rachel Papernick*Kim CeloneCraig SagerSu KimJen Crossan*Rajit Patel*Una Chan*Sarah SahniTyler Klein (BHA)Jackson EisenpresserFreshmenAlida Plocha (BHA)Gautam Chowdhry*Came Schneider (BHA)Christina Koshzow*Bethany ElderChristina AcostaPradyut Praiap*Cheryl CiesielskiBenjamin Smith*Heather Krogh*Joseph Frankiewicz (SHS)Amanda Annick*Christina Prested* (SHS)Mark Claeys*Marissa Staffer*David Kuhn*Elizabeth Glogowski* (SHS)AlexanderArbitKevin Rohmann (SHS)Lindsey Clark*Katherine Sutton*Pui Kit LauErika GoettlerWesley BarnhartJoseph RothMelissa Collinsworth (BHA)Jeffrey Thibert*Brian Lee (BHA)Sebastian HabrMelanie Benkin*Katrina Salazar (SHS)Rhys Conlon (BHA)Karen VomdranEvan Leonard*Jessica HandAurin Bhattacharjee*Anne Savarese (BHA)Sherae Daniel*Colleen VrbinErnest Lessenger*Saied HedayatiEliza BishopAnna Schardt* (SHS)Jayson Delancey*Michael WalshSamuel Levitan*Sara Henneberger*Gregory BotiaUjala Sehgal* (SHS)Heather DevineJoann WangHode LinStephanie Hepner*Dwight Bussman*Yann-Loic Seznec (BHA)Tara DwivediTzuan-Ta Wang*Vanessa Lobue*Eric Hilton* (SHS)Darren Canady*James Sell*Nicole EmeryMargaret Wardle (BHA)Christine LoveMatthew HornyakJoni Cheah (BHA)Paul Shatlock*Annika Fasnacht*Heidi Watt*Mark MacWhinneyMichael Hussey* (SHS)Chunsheng ChenLindsey Shultz* (SHS)Danielle Feher*Terry Watt*Elizabeth Majewski*Selena JoeDarsen ChenTreacy Silverstein* (SHS)Sha'Am Feldman*Kristin WeinzierlMehdi MalekzandiMichael JuraJaye Sai Kar Chiu* (SHS)Meena Soneji*Kate Figiel*Rachel Whipple*Jason Marlor*Elizabeth KaufmanIrene ChoiQuinten Steenhuis*Ronni Fleisher (BHA)Sara Wilson (BHA)Deepak MarwahKatie KeiPJeannie Choi*Courtney Syskowski*Kristen FragaGabrielie Zappia (BHA)Cary McCormickRachel Kingery*Bradley CohenYing Tam*Richard FriedbergMary Zimmerte*Michael McCurdy (BHA)Paul KlingmanSuzanne Cook*Ophir TanzKristen GakenMelissa McMahonTamar Krishnamurti* (SHS)Rebeoca Cornelius*Gregory Tietze*Jessica Glassberg (BHA)JuniorsMelanie Morgan (BHA)Kristin La la*Kathleen DavidCory Tong*Aarthi Gopal*David AndersonLaura Morris*Abbie LambAlexander Dovgopoly (SHS)Francis Tong*Joshua Hausfeld*Rudy Ash*Nicholas NavigliaElissa Lapide* (SHS)William Drozd*Alyssa TorresVanessa Johansson*Mavis BurksPolly Ng*Hyung LeeJoslyn Erickson*Theodore TseDavid Johnson (BHA)Noah Cantwell*Nicole OwingsDahlia Leibovich*Matthew Fagan*Chotihiran VarophasEmily Kellner*Peter CassinElizabeth Page-GouldJoseph Leopold (SHS)Katherine Fargo* (SHS)Nicole Velez*Sameer Kero*Christina Chong*Asha Pathak*Stephanie LesniakOyinkansoia Fasehun (BHA)Plato Wai*Anthony Ko*Faith Cole*David Platt*Kathy LeviNicholas Gammell*Yanna W'eisberg (SHS)Adam KramerSiobhan Cooney*Anthony PorcelliBrian Levinthal*Colleen Gault* (SHS)Alexander Weiss*Amanda KrausMonica Costfow*Beth Powell (BHA)Morgan LintonMichael Gibbons* (SHS)Gregory WelliverKatherine Kurinsky*Robert CullenVishwas Prabhakara*Rita Maricone (BHA)Daniel GilmanHeather Whitman* (SHS)Lorelei LairdJason CurrieRama RajuRandall McKinneyKent Haina, Jr.*Jessica Williams (SHS)Giwoong LeeSarah Cypher*Erin Reeve*Leah Messina (BHA)Rebecca Halperin* (SHS)Julie Williams*Anne Leete*Gregory DensmoreRobert Sinkewicz*Sean Mintus*Shanshan HanAlexander WolfeBrian LenhartAdrienne Dybes (BHA)Kim Smaczniak*Mohd Yusno Mohd Yunos* (SHS)Alexandra Hay (SHS)Christopher Wong* (SHS)Raymond LiBettina ElstroSabrina Small*Brian NameyMatthew Hockenberry*Ji YoonThomas Lianza*Matthew Ewalt*Joanna SmileyVirginia NgaiNicholas HoffmannBrian YoungAnn Lin*Michelle Fahey*Jay Snyder*Demetrios Panagiotou*Colin Holloway*Ann Yu* (SHS)Christopher Linder*Jacob Feige (BHA)Jennifer Stofferahn*Elizabeth ParkerNeil HuntJason ZuckerJohn ListMary Ann Feusner (BHA)Hannah SypherAashish PatelAlexia Isaak (BHA)Rebecca Maata*Kathleen FischerNina VenmaNeesha PatelJames Johnson (SHS)*with High HonorsBrian MachidaBenjamin FragaleAnna WeiGaelle Pierre*Kyle Kirby*Seth Mandel*Brett Gordon*Leslie Winters (BHA)Lisa Podgurski* (SHS)Amy Kuhmichel (SHS)


---------------------------------------------------

T
financial
account management
global operations & administration
mutual funds
risk management & analytics 
portfolio management
For more information, visit 
us at www.blackrock.com
BlackRock. Because work should inspire you,
A business casual dresscode. A non-bureaucratic environment. Work/life balance 
initiatives. High visibility. Mentoring programs and so much more. The result? A 
place you actually look forward to seeing come Monday.
Join BlackRock, a world-class asset management firm with unparalleled growth 
potential. Founded in 1988 and already managing over $200 billion in assets, weve 
got it all high energy, cutting-edge technologies, excellent benefits and more.
All positions require strong PC proficiency; some also require programming experi
ence (C++, Java, PERL, SQL). Email us at careers@blackrock.com for further details.
We will be on campus:
Tuesday, September 25th at the 
Technical Opportunities Conference.
Resumes must be submitted to 
Career Services 
before Thursday, September 27th 
for our on-campus interviews 
Thursday, October 18th.
S NG,EWYOEWBlackRock is proud to be an equal opportunity employer.
Our best practices start in our culture.

---------------------------------------------------

Forum
17 September 2001THE TARTANPage A6
CMU communitys response to 
tragedy swift and compassionate
In the face of an American tragedy, 
Carnegie Mellon students and administrators 
have mobilized and responded quickly and 
sympathetically. While so many of us felt 
numb and shocked as Tuesdays events unfold
ed, many student organizations worked inde
pendently and alongside the administration to 
raise awareness, funds, and resources to aid 
the victims and comfort members of the cam
pus community. In doing so, CMU has demon
strated a great deal of compassion.
By noon on Tuesday, the University had offi
cially cancelled classes to allow individuals 
time to contact family and friends and grant 
the community time to deal with the shocking 
events around the country.
Service fraternity, Alpha Phi Omegas, quick 
actions resulted in better promotion and 
turnout for a blood drive held on Tuesday in 
the Connan Room. Hundreds of students 
flocked to the UC that afternoon, many of 
them waiting patiently in lines for hours, only 
to be turned away because they wanted to 
donate more blood than the Central Blood 
Bank could handle. In this one day alone, a 
phenomenal 251 pints of blood were collected. 
Individuals should keep in mind that their 
blood may still be needed even if they werent 
able to donate on this particular day; those 
interested should contact the Central Blood 
Bank on 812 Fifth Avenue.
At the same time, live news broadcasts were 
being shown in the UC in McConomy 
Auditorium, Kirr Commons, and several other 
places on campus, like the Giant Eagle 
Auditorium in Baker Hall, and the TV lounge 
next to Taste of India in the Old Student 
Center. Health Services counselors were 
available in McConomy to talk to students 
immediately, and are still available, should 
anyone like to discuss any concerns they may 
be having in the wake of these incidents.
CMlFs own Robotics Institute sent a selfpiloting helicopter equipped with a laser 
rangefinder to the Somerset County crash site. 
The helicopters capabilities include produc
tion of detailed three-dimensional diagrams of 
the crash site, which may be useful to the FBI 
in piecing together the events that transpired 
aboard United Flight 93.
Students organized a range of events to help 
accommodate the many different ways of 
reacting and coping. Events included several 
candlelight vigils, organized by Phi Kappa 
Theta, and APhiOs Casino Night fundraiser 
benefit. The Asian American Women and Pi 
Delta Psi Interest Group organized bottled 
water and money donations, collecting 405 
liters of bottled water, and $451.93, as of
Wednesday for Salvation Army relief in New 
York City.
Administrative response was swift and 
appropriate: Although President Cohon was 
not on campus at the time of the plane crash
es, his emails of comfort were sent to the 
entire campus, urging conscientiousness and 
the importance of campus unity among people 
of all ethnicities. Additional messages were 
later disseminated to students informing them 
of Wednesdays forum in McConomy to dis
cuss issues, emotions, and reactions, and the 
Campus Polices safety forums on Thursday 
and Friday.
A prayer circle held Friday outside the UC 
integrated "prayers of hope and unity from 
religious traditions of the world," and brought 
together individuals from different religious 
backgrounds, including Islam, Christianity, 
Judaism, Hinduism, and Buddhism. The gath
ering was a simple reminder to us of the toler
ance we must show for the diverse people of 
our campus.
This Monday afternoon, a student- and faculty-organized event called "Time to Learn: 
Professors Explain the Crisis" is scheduled near 
the Fence (painted black by Phi Kappa Theta, 
with messages written by many other students) 
to educate members of the campus on the his
torical and political background, policies, and 
risks surrounding Tuesdays attacks.
The student body and the administration 
alike deserve commendation for their 
resounding compassion. The swift action 
taken by the campus community demonstrat
ed the positive impact that Carnegie Mellon is 
clearly capable of, and should be proud of. 
During this critical moment in our nations his
tory, the collaborative efforts of students, 
staff, and faculty deliver a strong message of 
support for the entire country.
Perhaps the ultimate message that can be 
derived from this tragedy is that one person 
can always make a difference  for those who 
wanted to donate blood but were unable to, 
take the time to donate later in the year during 
one of Carnegie Mellons several blood drives. 
Organizations such as the Salvation Army and 
the American Red Cross are always in need of 
financial support and committed volunteers, 
so take the time to call them to ensure that 
CMUs extraordinary outpouring and concern 
need not stop here. Those interested in giving 
back to their community have a variety of out
lets for doing so year-round, and if theres 
something that needs to be done for those less 
fortunate, we must take the time to better the 
lives of those around us, and not let our com
passion fade as the days go on.
Americans must unite, prepare 
for the long journey ahead
As we return to work And Sehool this week, 
we are showing our enemies that we are not a 
people whe will let cowardly acts tear our 
nation apart. Today, we are a country mourn
ing and remembering chose who died need
lessly, but we are also a nation preparing for 
sustained retaliation. The terrorists who 
attacked- dur nation tried to make us surren
der to a new era of trepidation and decline. 
While they toppled buildings and killed thou
sands of civilians, four fuel-laden jets can not 
kill the American spirit.
We begin this week as a unified nation, and 
we must remain a unified nation  the next 
few weeks and months are not going to be easy 
ones. When we eventually do take military 
action against those who deserve it, Americans 
will have to be prepared for a long fight with 
the potential for loss of more American life. 
This war, however, will be on our terms. Now is 
not the time for party politics or partisan bick
ering and we must stand behind those who we 
have entrusted to keep us safe and represent 
our interests. Our government has also demon
strated its unity in the face of terror, passing 
bills almost unanimously and in record time 
sending the rest of the world the message that 
we are all in this together.
While our government and our nation 
stand as one, so must we as citizens. Skin 
color and religion are not barriers for feeling
grief, anger, or patriotism. It has been said 
countless times in the last few days, but it 
must be said again: the terrorists will win if 
we turn on each other. Arab Americans, 
Muslims, and members of every ethnic group 
in this country were equally affected by this 
tragedy. Regardless of what we look like, we 
are all living in America, and, therefore, are 
all equal.
In the next few months, we will need our 
neighbors to lean on and we will need our 
international allies. Last week, the American 
national anthem was played at Buckingham 
Palace, while thousands of Britons, including 
the Royal Family, left flowers and tributes at 
our Embassy in London. Spain sent their mili
tary to protect our Embassy there when we con
sidered closing it. However, we should remem
ber that some of our closest allies during this 
conflict will be in the Middle East and South 
Asia. Pakistan has momentarily risen above its 
internal political conflicts to act as our repre
sentative in the extradition of Osama bin Laden 
from Afghanistan within the next 72 hours, and 
thousands of our troops are based in numerous 
Middle Eastern nations  these nations, our 
friends, provide support and protection for our 
troops away from the United States. The road 
ahead will be long. The only way to complete 
the journey will be to make sure we all travel 
down this road together.
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellons Student Newspaper Since 1906 
EDITORIAL BOARD
ASEEM GUPTA and SARA STILLE 
Editors-in-Chief
BRAD GRANTZ, Managing Editor 
SARA HENNEBERGER, News Editor 
CHRISTINA KOSHZOW, Forum Editor 
BALAJI SARPESHKAR, Sports Editor 
BETH POWELL, Arts & Living Editor 
SRIRAM VAIDHYANATHAN, Science & Tech. Ed.
DANNY SILITONGA, Entertainment Editor 
ROBERT FETTERMAN, Business Editor 
JONATHAN PEARCE, Comics Editor 
BEHNAM FARAHPOUR, Co-Photo Editor 
SHAINA MCGRATH, Co-Photo Editor 
ERICA DiBENEDETTO, Art Editor 
SERENA LAM, Online Design Editor 
JUSTIN SUISSA, Dossier Design Editor 
SABRINA SMALL, Dossier Co-Literary Editor
JENNIFER LIU, Business Manager 
ANISH KUMAR, Advertising Manager 
KRISTIN LALA, Co-Copy Manager 
EMMA REHM, Co-Copy Manager 
JOHN DAVIN, Production Manager 
LANCE BROWN, Systems Manager 
BETTY KIM, Darkroom Manager 
DEBBIE HALPERN, Personnel Manager 
CHRIS CHUNG, Special Projects Manager 
KO NAKATSU, Asst. Photo Editor 
PETER WANG, Asst. Darkroom Manager 
PAUL RICHELMI, Asst. Entertainment Editor
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS 
Matt Brun, Sriram Gollapalli, Ish Harshawat, 
Bryan Kaplan, Cassandra Knight
Gary Tsai/Junior Photo Staff
This is not Islam
Editor:
Many people have asked us, the Muslim 
members of the CMU community, what 
we think of the tragedy of September 11.
When we saw the WTC collapsing, we 
were shocked and horrified. We 
denounce this terrorist act categorically, 
as have all Muslim Americans. We would 
like to take this opportunity to express 
our heartfelt condolences to the victims 
and their families.
We have all suffered because of this 
calamity. The plane that hit the WTC 
made no religious distinctions, killing 300 
Muslims and destroying their mosque. 
The magnitude of this crime and the 
absence of a clear target for vengeance 
have caused mass frustration and appre
hension. Many innocent minorities, espe
cially Muslims, have become an outlet of 
this frustration: an insult added to the 
injury they share.
Some members of the media have even 
convicted Islam as the enemy. Islam, how
ever, forbids hurting civilians even in war. 
Blaming Islam for the collapse of the WTC 
is like blaming Christianity for the 
Oklahoma City bombing or condemning 
Judaism for Israeli transgressions against 
Palestinians. We, as the Muslims of CMU, 
would like to assure non-Muslim
Americans that Islam is not their enemy 
and that they have nothing to fear of 
Muslim Americans.
Muslim Americans, in turn, should 
have nothing to fear of their fellow 
Americans. Unfortunately, the last few 
days have seen much more than just 
harassment of Muslims and other 
minorities in Pittsburgh and throughout 
the nation.
These knee-jerk reactions are counter
productive. We can only understand how 
to fight anti-American terrorism when we 
know its causes, and that cannot happen 
until we begin to reflect with reason 
instead of rage.
When we observe'the disparity between 
the noble values on which America was 
founded and our foreign policy, events like 
those of September 11 are still wrong, but 
no longer surprising.
At home, we are willing to die for free
dom. Abroad, we veto every resolution 
that would help liberate Palestinians. At 
home, we proudly uphold the flag of 
democracy. Abroad, we overthrew Irans 
democratically-elected government and 
replaced it with the Shah because he 
would sell us oil for less. At home, we 
yearn for human rights and justice. 
Abroad, we support oppressive dictators 
like Saddam Hussein and General 
Pinochet in order to gain control of their 
countries. At home, we fear the horrific
effects of biological and chemical 
weapons. Abroad, we happily sipplied 
these same weapons to help massacre 
Iranians. At home, we promote womens 
rights and equality. Abroad, we support
ed the Taliban to fight the Soviet Union. 
At home, we help the weak and needy. 
Abroad, we bomb and put sanctions on 
Iraq, leading millions of Iraqi children to 
starve to death. Despite havir.g this 
result and having no effect on Saddam 
Hussein for eleven years, these sanctions 
are still continued.
We have suffered two days that will 
live in infamy, but our foreign poley has 
condemned many nations to yeas that 
will live in infamy. The terror abrcad has 
become routine and is often ignored by 
our media. We Americans, however, can 
no longer afford our well-known igno
rance of the rest of the world. Instead, we 
must be aware and in control of oir for
eign policy, for we must ultimately bear 
its consequences.
We offer our deepest condolences and 
prayers to all those who have suffered 
and are still suffering from the recent 
tragedy in America. We stand in solidari
ty with everyone who condemns tiis ter
rorist attack and all other terror round 
the world.
Muslim Student Association (MS\)
Perspectives
Local
A New Yorkers account
Michelle Ng is a resident of New York and a student at 
Carnegie Mellon.
For some strange reason, I forgot to turn on my alarm. I 
woke up from a jolt at 8 am on Tuesday. There was no sound 
or other disturbance, just a sense of uneasiness. I thought I 
was just hungry, but was in a hurry to leave my house to 
attend my first lecture. I arrived to my lecture 5 minutes 
late and realized that I had forgotten to wear my glasses. 
This is a very strange thing as I seldom forget them. I could
nt see the blackboard so I kept looking outside the window 
and admired the sunny day over the campus. It was weird 
trying to focus in class without my glasses. That was proba
bly the best thing that happened to me on this day.
Around 11:30 am, one of my classmates announced that 
class had been cancelled for the rest of the day. Naturally, 
everyone asked why. Someone blurted out, the World 
Trade Center has been bombed. My initial thought was 
Oh, not again? though I could never imagine the magni
tude of this incident. I frantically tried to call my family in 
New York City. All circuits are busy, please try your call 
later is all I hear for every number I had tried calling in 
New York. Various versions of the recent events were told as 
I walked across campus though I could not stay to hear 
what was said. I went into Wean and sat down with a 
friend. As we were listening to the radio broadcast, I com
mented rather casually, Oh well, they bombed it before; 
it's no big deal, the towers can take it. My friend then pro
ceeded to look me straight in the eyes and said I am sorry 
dear, both towers have collapsed. In my mind, I saw the 
two towers break and fall horizontally, crushing everything 
beneath them. I refused to believe it and broke down sob
bing as I punched my home phone number on my cell 
phone, again to no avail. I kept repeating the words Why 
would anyone do this? Why? My friend said that it was to 
show that we are not safe. I cried harder as I heard the news 
about the plane crash in Somerset County and the attack on 
the Pentagon.
My brother Mel attends Pace University, a short distance 
away from the World Trade Center. There was no way to 
predict where he was at the time. Tears kept falling as my 
imagination went wild as to where my brother was. Still 
dialing... still no connection. I tried calling my other friends 
here in Pittsburgh, I just wanted to see and hear physically 
from someone I know that he or she is okay. At this point, 
my cell phone could not make any connection.
See NG, page B3
International
Thoughts from Singapore
Jeremy Leong is a resident of Singapore. His article his been 
printed in the Straits Times.
Harper Lee speaks of the senseless killing of mockingbirds 
by children, mockingbirds that do no harm and instead sing 
their hearts out for people to enjoy. Years ago, she wrote in 
analogy to the killing of the helpless and the innocent. Today,
I refer to it, in response to the meaningless slaughter of civil
ians, in acts of terrorism.
New York City, Washington, DC, and Pittsburgh were 
such slaughter grounds. So many questions rise from the 
smoking rubble of this catastrophe, federal investigators 
scratch their heads over who is responsible, FAA officials 
wonder how the hijacks took place, and the rest of the 
world has no idea what is going to happen next. While I 
have no qualification to comment on the first two ques
tions, any reasonable man will be able to give a short-term 
answer to the last. Retaliation and punishment wiL ensue. 
It may be in Gods nature to turn the other cheek, out it is 
never in human nature to condone a violation, not just of 
a nations security, but a violation against huiaanity. 
Shimon Peres, in an interview with CNN, reflected upon 
these events as a crime against civilization. I will 2xpand 
upon his point of view; this was a crime against every
thing that being a thinking, rational, human being stands 
for. This was a crime against God, against Allah, against 
Yahweh. And, it warrants condemnation from all nations, 
religions, and people.
Proportional retaliation has always been a dcctrine, 
which cannot be ignored, in international affairs, in view 
of this catastrophe, what possible retaliation can be taken 
as proportionate? To perpetuate the Pearl Harbor analogy, 
the United States of America went to war in retaliation. 
The tragedies of yesterday will probably produc more 
human casualties and grief than Pearl Harbor; 
will President Bush decide to declare war on whoever 
is responsible, or on nations that are holding the 
responsible parties?
If he does, I pray that the full weight of the world be 
behind him. The last thing anyone wants is for the advent 
of another great war. If we can remember clearly, the cat
alyst of the First World War was an act of terrorism, fol
lowed by retaliation and re-retaliation. Such is foreign 
affairs that one mans reason is anothers lunacy. I pray 
that President Bush finds as proportionate a response as 
possible, and that no one can speak of him as a lunatic.
See LEONG, page A7

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  SEPTEMBER 17, 2001 A7
How do you think youll live your own life differently?
Janet Park
First-year student 
Civil Engineering
I think Ill Jive my life similarly, day 
by day, but with [Tuesday] as a historic 
landmark in the back of my mind.
Laura Morris
Senior
Creative Writing
I really think school isnt important. 
[Tuesdays attack] really put things in 
perspective.
Ayeh Ohene-Asah
First-year student 
Physics
For the rest of my life, Ill use 
[Tuesday] for motivation, so I can give 
more, 110%. Show more love. Be kind.
Molly McAhan
Sophomore
Undecided
I think Ill take foreign relations 
more seriously.
Eizan Miyamoto
Senior
Cognitive Science
Im not sure something like this war
rants a change in life rather than a 
change in outlook.
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Since igo6
STAFFWRITERS 
Dave Anderson, Burt Bacharach, Krissy 
Choi, Lindsay Clark, Cam Crews, Ryan 
Friedman, LaRita Hamilton, Ryan 
Hamilton, Charles Martin, Sean Mintus, 
Jennifer Resick, Christian Restifo, R.J. 
Sikdar, Vivek Sridharan
ART
Matthew Blum, Jamie Divine, Adam 
Grossi, Reagan Heller, Alissa Taylor
COMICS
Warit Achavanuntakul, Avinash Baliga, 
Kevin Burns, Martin Hock, Ann Lewis, To 
Han Lu, Neal Martin, Jason Slater, Zac 
Smith
PHOTO
Katie Aemi, Jen Aivone, Sally Bozzuto, 
Jeremy Canceko, Robert Chiu, Anthony 
DAuria, Jeff Easter, Jeff Cullers, 
Matthew Lanken, Nuri Miller, Michael 
Raisman, Gary Tsai
DARKROOM 
Eric Barker, Erica Barnes, Eve Chen
PRODUCTION 
Ekta Agrawal, Michael Castellana, Eve 
Chen, Jen Cheng, Nithya George, Gautam 
Jain, Joy Lee, Julie Ludwick, Jon 
Minkowitz, Aarthi Padmanabhn, Knot 
Pipatsrisawat, Nat Torut
COPY
Joyce Boss, Michael Croland, Claire 
Jauregui, Alexander Meseguer, Kristen 
Romonovich, Laura Vaillancourt, Julie 
Watt, Jeremy Wortman
JUNIOR STAFF 
Adam Atkinson, Aditya Agrawal, Pratik 
Agarwal, Sharad Bajaj, Andy Baker, 
Fatima Boujarwah, Jonathan Brathwaite, 
Amanda Chase, Nina Durai, Kathleen 
Fischer, Arthur Goh, Pearl Goodman, 
Alissa Green, Christopher Kim, Justin 
Kerr, John King, Maria LaMendola, 
Tiffany Lee, Elizabeth Levin, Julia Myers, 
Tejas Pathak, Surya Singh, Sinduja 
Sriniavasan
The Tartan is the student newspaper of 
Carnegie Mellon University. It is a weekly 
newspaper published by students during the 
fall and spring semesters, at no cost to mem
bers of the University community. It is print
ed by Western Pennsylvania Printing, Inc. 
Subscriptions are available for the semester 
or academic year. The editorials appearing at 
the beginning of the opinion section are the 
official opinion of The Tartan editorial board. 
Columns and political cartoons are the opin
ions of individual creators. The Tartan 
reserves the right to reject or condense any 
column or political cartoon. Letters to the 
Editor are opinions of authors who are usual
ly, but not necessarily, members of the 
University community. A letter intended for 
publication must be signed and include the 
writers address and phone number for verifi
cation. Names- may be withheld upon 
request. The Tartan requests that letters be 
no longer than 350 words. The Tartan 
reserves the right to condense or reject any 
letter. Letters to the Editor must be submit
ted by 5 pm the Thursday before publica
tion. Copyright  2000 by The Tartan. The 
Tartan editorial board reserves the right to 
withhold from publication any copy it deems 
unfit for publication. Office: University 
Center Room 314. Phone: 412/268-2111. 
Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/Carnegie 
Mellon University/Pittsburgh, PA 15213- 
3890.
Email: tartan@andrew.cmu.edu 
Funded in part by your Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress 
ISSN#:0890-3107.
The Tartan is a member of 
the Associated Press.
In light of current events and the medias statements that Americans will never live 
their lives the same from this point on, we asked our students the following question:
A PERSONS OPINION
Compiled by Emma Rehm 
Photos by Katie Aemi
Sean Mintus: Proud to be an American
But, Seriously...
by: Sean Mintus
Ive got to tell you, kids, Id really rather not discuss last 
Tuesdays events. The entire point of my writing here week 
after week is to give whomever reads me a short break from 
what is no doubt for them a hectic and troubling world. 
There are too many people on this campus who are 21 going 
on 35 and my purpose as a collegiate journalist has been to 
combat that.
But this week is beyond repair. For once, I cant contest 
the severity of a situation with humor, obscenity, or exag
geration. Our innocence is lost and our hearts are heavy. For 
the first time in my life, my country has been attacked. My 
borders are no longer secure in my eyes. I cannot remember 
ever having been so frightened and so enraged at the same 
time. All that I can do is pray for those lost and for those 
who have been left to tend to the guilty aftermath of the 
most inexcusable act I have ever witnessed.
We are a progressive nation, always moving forward and 
meeting the next challenge, whatever it may be. For the 
American people, it is now time to mourn the loss of so 
many lives. For the American government, it is now time to 
respond in whatever fashion is deemed necessary.
The debate is raging over how best to handle the perpe
trators of this crime. Some say that we should leave well 
enough alone; that a show of force now would only bring 
about the loss of more innocent lives and the martyrdom of 
whoever was responsible. The other end of this argument 
consists of scorching everything from Syria to Egypt just to 
be sure.
Thankfully, most opinions fall somewhere in between 
these two extremes. Ive heard them all and am thankful to 
know that nobody who told me what they think this past 
week is in any position to make any decision regarding the 
dispersal of military personnel. We dont know a thing. Any 
citizen who is more focused on discerning appropriate mili
tary action than on tending to the tremendous loss of life 
here at home has no right to call himself an American.
The federal government exists to regulate us to a certain 
extent and to protect us against all threats foreign and 
domestic. That is their job. For Gods sake, have enough 
respect for the deceased to not cloud the issue with your 
pointless posturing and worthless verbal affronts.
Our country has an amazing capacity for vengeance, for 
seeking out those who have wronged us and delivering 
them to whatever God they choose. We were founded upon 
just that. America has the most advanced intelligence oper
ations and military might this world has ever known. Let 
them use it.
The American people from here on out can assume one 
of two roles. We will either band together in the spirit of 
brotherhood and aid those who have fallen, or we will 
become a distraction to the only people who can set 
things straight.
I dont trust this government all that much. It impedes my 
personal freedoms at every turn and takes far too many of 
my hard-earned dollars to fund programs aimed at catering 
to the needs of whiny interest groups who dont know how 
good they have it. But where I draw the line is the military. 
I have no doubt, absolutely no doubt, that our government 
will find those responsible for this and punish them in the 
brutal, unforgiving manner they deserve.
They will find them, and they will kill them. Thats the 
easy part. The hard part falls to us. We are left to bury our 
loved ones and slowly rebuild the sense of security that, 
until a week ago, had never been brought into question on 
such a scale. Our duty at present is not to hate those respon
sible. Dont even acknowledge them. A terrorist act, by def
inition, is the worst military tactic one could adopt. It is 
meant solely as a statement, not a strategic offensive. This 
means that so long as there is dissension amongst the 
American people, the act can be deemed a success. I urge 
you all not to let that happen.
I say again, let the military do its job. Some are worried 
that a counterattack would cost more American lives. Yes, 
it most likely will. But those are our soldiers, those brave 
souls who have sworn to lay down their lives in the name of 
America. Our focus, the focus of civilians, must be here. 
Tend to your families, your friends, and loved ones. Light 
your candles, say your prayers, and fly your flags at halfmast. The government  as much as it pains me to say it  
will take care of the rest. Good luck and God bless.
Sean Mintus is a junior professional and creative writing 
major. He quit smoking three days ago, so expect to hear him 
savoring some sweet acrimony next week.
Calamity awakens sleeping giant
believe the sleeping giant descrip
tion fits us well. Too bad it takes a 
catastrophic event like this to 
pull us out of our neo-isolation
ist tendencies.
The real test, however, lies ahead. 
Listen to the radio, watch TV, read 
just about any Web site or newsgroup 
on the Internet, and youll find peo
ple enraged. The Philadelphia 
Inquirer, in an editorial the day after 
the attack, came inches away from 
basically saying, Lets hunt the 
motherf****rs down and kill them in 
the most painful way possible. 
See QUESTIONS, page A8
Sophomore Whitney Hess expressed her frustration and fears with fellow students at last Wednesdays Open Forum.
Citizens of all nations should find solace 
and common thread in tragic events
LEONG, from page A6
Similarly, I hope that all nations realize the grief that 
America feels and understand the anger that always fol
lows grief.
As I watch Palestinians cheer and celebrate in the 
refugee camps, the only emotions are nausea and 
shame. As people who have been surrounded by death 
most of their lives, shouldnt they be familiar with the 
misery that death brings? So what if you hate America, 
did you hate the numerous left dead? All I would like to 
say to them is, if you expect sympathy from the world as 
you fight for your freedom, how can you not show civil
ity to your fellow human beings that have just felt the
sting of the same whip you have been dealt. Human 
actions do surface in such a manner that tempts us to 
disavow our race.
However, these situations do bring out the best in 
human nature. And, with this, I send my prayers to all 
who are working to save lives, to all that are working to 
find justice, to all that are trying to recover from the ter
ror they have survived. Finally, I pray for all that find 
themselves standing at heavens gate, mockingbirds 
who have been sacrifices so that the whole world can 
read another chapter in the big book called Violence has 
no Virtue?
this whole incident is the almost one 
voice with which the world has spo
ken. NATO invoked Article V of its 
charter, which basically says that the 
attack on New York City and 
Washington, DC was an attack not 
only on the United States, but all of 
NATO. Dissident terrorist groups 
quickly denied any liability (most like
ly due to fear of our near carte blanche 
moral authority to kill whoever did 
this), and even Castro offered help to 
the United States.
The near universal response of 
Americans didnt surprise me. Call it 
corny, over-patriotic, or naive, but I
Christian Restifo
As I write this column, what 
remained of one of the two World 
Trade Center towers has collapsed. 
The government continues its inves
tigation, moving with a lightning 
speed weve not seen in some time. 
Workers still sift through the aftermath in the faint hope of finding 
people alive.
What has surprised me most about

---------------------------------------------------

A8THE TARTAN  SEPTEMBER 17, 2001
Unwritten history: Tuesdays events can never compare to Pearl Harbor
Ko Nakatsu
I cant believe that theyre comparing 
this to Pearl Harbor. The mass murder of 
thousands of innocent civilians on 
September 11 should stand in its own place 
in history as one of the most horrific acts 
committed by humans and the horrors that 
humans are capable of. Congress and the 
media have called it the second Pearl 
Harbor, but I cant compare the horrific 
events of Tuesday to any other event in his
tory. How can we learn about our humani
ty, how it affects our future, and how we 
can come out stronger from this tragedy, if 
this is being put in some historic category 
thats already been thought about? This act 
of terrorism must not go down in history in 
the shadows of any event like Pearl Harbor. 
The world had never seen anything like 
this before, and it should be remembered 
and studied as such.
Almost 60 years ago, on December 7, the 
Japanese military made a surprise attack on
Pearl Harbor. That is as far as the connection 
between the two events goes; they were 
attacks that shook the unsuspecting civil
ians of the United States. The differences 
between the attack on Pearl Harbor and 
those on the World Trade Center and 
Pentagon are so great that, in a historic out
look, they cant even compare. I see several 
specific major differences between the two
knew the risks of joining the military. The 
terrorists who crashed the planes into the 
World Trade Center and Pentagon killed 
more than 5,000 civilians who were regular 
people. The mothers, husbands, sisters, 
friends, and neighbors who went to work on 
Tuesday at the World Trade Center did not 
sign up to die for this country. The innocent 
people did not wake up every morning
This act of terrorism must not go 
down in history in the shadows of any 
event like Pearl Harbor. The world has 
never seen anything like this before, and 
it should be remembered and 
studied as such.
events. Everything from their motives to the 
people who they killed is different. Pearl 
Harbor was a military versus military event. 
The deaths totaled over 2,000 that day of 
mostiy navy and other military men who
knowing that they could die that day. They 
did not go to work prepared to die.
The motives behind the attacks of both 
enemies of the United States were different 
too. Japan attacked Pearl Harbor because
the United States put an embargo into effect 
that stopped providing them with fuel. So 
Japan decided to attack a bunch of coun
tries and try to take over, and one of the tar
gets was Pearl Harbor. The terrorists who 
hijacked the airplanes and murdered thou
sands didnt do it to start a war, and they 
didnt do it to take over a country. They did 
this to make a statement. We dont even 
clearly know what the statement they want
ed to make is yet, because the people who 
directly did this are dead and the others 
who helped are not confessing. Although we 
can make a lot of statements ourselves and 
assume a lot of things, we still want to know 
why. We still dont know the answer and Im 
as confused as the rest of you.
On December 7, the United States knew 
who our enemies were; we knew who 
attacked Pearl Harbor. Within hours, the 
United States responded with a declaration 
of war. Back to 2001  we still dont know 
who the aggressors were who destroyed 
these symbols of the United States, we dont 
know whos connected, and we dont know 
who their leader is. Youve heard in the 
news that there are suspects like bin Laden 
or other Arabs and Muslims, but they still
might not be the ones responsible. We just 
dont know. If you think back to the 1995 
bombing in Oklahoma, it initially resulted 
in hunting down Middle Eastern males who 
turned out not to have any connections 
with the real evil, Timothy McVeigh.
We will all remember this day; we will all 
remember where we were, and what we 
were doing when we heard of the tragic 
news. Hopefully we will learn about this as 
an event with none other like it in history 
and study it carefully so that we can pre
vent it in the future.
However, because the future has not yet 
arrived, there is one connection that could 
still be made between Pearl Harbor and the 
recent terrorist attacks. Pearl Harbor was 
what brought about World War II, a truly 
frightening number of years where more 
people were killed than our tears could 
muster in a lifetime. I am hoping that this 
attack on the World Trade Center and the 
Pentagon does not go down in history with 
a similar fate, as one of the first steps that 
was taken to World War III.
Ko Nakatsu cherishes life and hopes you 
do, too.
Violence, hate not the only options
Maria LaMendola
Campuses across the nation have 
been responding to the national 
crisis, and one group of CMU stu
dents has organized a Rally for 
Peace on Monday, September 17, 
at 4:30 pm, the Fence.
At the rally, I hope that feel
ings of hate and vengeance are 
tempered, and I hope to address 
the premature support for war. I 
fear that my response may be 
considered anti-American, but I 
believe that being nonviolent is 
not anti-American, rather it is 
quite American. Americans 
believe in human rights, in indi
vidual rights, in protection of the 
innocent (innocent until proven 
guilty). Therefore, a peaceful 
response seems more American 
than a violent one. Americans 
need to think about the conse
quences of our actions if we are 
violent, about the people who
will suffer as we suffer now.
The US has had a history of 
intervening in other countrys 
violations of human rights, 
therefore the US government 
must also practice what they 
preach. The act of attacking 
innocent people would not 
respect human rights. We must 
rise above the tit for tat vio
lence that currently plagues our 
world. This view is important 
and it should be heard.
My main concern is that I do 
not want a long dirty war. An 
American response of violence or 
warfare will not bring justice or 
peace to the American people. To 
respond to an injustice with 
another injustice would be the 
greatest injustice to all. Students 
and faculty will speak in favor of 
lawful courses of action that will 
allow Americans to break the 
cycle of violence, while at the 
same time arriving at a just out
come. I am hoping that certain 
American citizens support for 
violence is a result of their igno
rance to what violence would
mean. I also hope that violence 
towards fellow Americans who 
look Middle Eastern will subside, 
for violence towards them is a 
violation of their individual 
rights as Americans and of their 
human rights.
In effect, my general goal is to 
dispel hate and violence, and the 
best way to do that is through 
education and expression. Try to 
learn about more about what is 
behind what happened. Email 
news stations, take the polls, and 
choose and vote peace. Peace is 
my choice. Peace is the greatest 
choice that I can make. The media 
only represents and offers us one 
option in response to the attack on 
the US, and that option is violent 
retaliation. I hope to express the 
best option as being the option for 
peace and respect for the inno
cent. I hope that the educational 
panel on these issues and the 
Peace Rally will advocate peace 
and respect for all.
Maria LaMendola is a graduate 
student in the English Department.
United States still waits for answers
QUESTIONS, from page A7
But can this rage, this anger, this utter contempt 
for what was done, sustain us in the long days 
ahead when we must do unpleasant things?
! As Colin Powell, President Bush, and others have 
pointed out, punishing the perpetrators will not 
happen overnight. Hard evidence must be found; 
countries must work with us to find and pursue the 
enemy; steps must be taken to disrupt terrorist 
cells; if need be, a sovereign country must be invad
ed. This will take massive amounts of time, money, 
manpower, and effort. Are we up to the task?
Can we be patient enough to make sure we find the 
real perpetrators? Physically apprehending those
The real test, however, lies 
ahead. Listen to the radio, 
watch TV, read any Web Site 
on the Internet, and youll 
find people enraged.
responsible could end up taking months or years. 
Just look at the Lockerbie trial in Scotland. Will we 
accept the wait, the near misses, the dropped balls, 
and still maintain our quiet rage? Or will we let frus
tration push us into lashing out at the most conve
nient target?
When we do attack with military force? Are we 
ready to accept American casualties? Smart bombs, 
cruise missiles, and whatnot have made many feel 
that war is bloodless. These technologies are impor
tant, but real progress comes from a Marine busting 
down a door and putting a bullet through a terrorists 
head. Are we ready to accept images of the bodies of 
American soldiers, sailors, pilots, and Marines 
dragged through streets a la Somalia?
Will we accept the fact that will we have to employ 
and ally ourselves with seedy characters? James 
Baker noted that we let our human intelligence slide 
in the 70s. The best way to get at terrorists is to infil
trate their cells, support their opponents, and engage 
in very unsavory activities. Can we accept this?
Along those lines, when our new allies end up 
turning on us, are we willing to quickly and deci
sively move to eliminate them? The CIA supported 
Osama bin Laden against the Soviets, and he fled 
Saudi Arabia with millions of dollars. Can we bor
row a page from Mossad and conduct planned 
assassinations to protect American interests?
Will we face the issues united or quickly devolve 
into partisan politics? Hundreds of questions remain, 
regarding what could have been done to prevent this 
tragedy. Why didnt the FBI or CIA act? How could 
the hijackers get on board the planes so easily? The 
list goes on and on. Will we put bickering behind us 
and engage in an open, honest debate with one goal 
of increasing our safety?
Are we willing to openly confront our prejudices?
Many people instantly associate terrorism with 
Islam, even though part of the meaning of the word 
itself is peace. Islam has perhaps some of the most 
progressive ideas regarding social justice. A true 
Muslim, like a true Christian or Jew, desires peace. 
If Islamic terrorists did this, they are no more prac
titioners of Islam than leaders of the Inquisition 
were followers of Christianity. Can we learn to tell 
the difference?
Will we be willing to spend money on the very 
countries who hate us in order to fight terrorism? 
Any radical group, of any religion or affiliation, can 
easily recruit uneducated, unemployed boys as sui
cide agents and promise them glory, honor, Heaven, 
victory, etc. Economic development puts food on 
tables, clothes on backs, and medicine in hospitals. 
Go to Fox Chapel or Mount Lebanon and try recruit
ing a terrorist. Youll be laughed out of the three-car 
garage house.
Are we willing to spend the money to fight biolog
ical, chemical, and nuclear threats? You want a 
worse tragedy? Imagine a plane not crashing into the 
World Trade Center but instead flying over 
Manhattan and detonating a low-yield nuclear 
device. The former states of the Soviet Union are lit
erally whoring out nuclear materials to the highest 
bidder. Can we stomach the enormous cost to get this 
material off the market?
Perhaps most importantly, are we willing to stand 
up for our civil liberties? We can become the most 
secure nation in the world with people monitored, 
questioned, examined, and searched all the time. We 
will let our desire for safety trample our freedoms, 
thus perpetuating the effects of these attacks?
I believe we will keep our eyes on the prize. 
America provides a prime example of Newtons sec
ond law. Its hard to get our lazy selves in gear, but 
once were moving, staying in our path is highly 
unadvisable.
I, for one, will maintain support for the fight. I want 
covert CIA operatives arranging things so that terror
ists wake up with their throats slit. I want agents buy
ing up nuclear materials (and eliminating those who 
would buy or sell them). I want the Navy bombarding 
the hell out of a country so the Marines can land, hunt 
down, and destroy who did this. I want the US and 
the world to pursue these people, no matter how long 
it takes, until they are in jail or dead.
Some at Carnegie Mellon, in their safe offices, class
rooms, or dorms, have already advocated a new peace 
in our time. They think we can somehow deal peace
fully with this situation. I doubt this will work, and his
tory provides plenty of support. The question is, are 
we Americans willing to spend the time and effort to 
confront these fellow Americans and prove that our 
cause is just? I certainly hope so.
Christian M. Restifo is a second-year Flex-Time MBA 
student in GSIA. He would like to send a personal word 
of thanks out to Scott Chiang, a fellow Chem E alum
nus, who worked on the World Trade Center site from 
Tuesday afternoon until Friday morning. The fact that 
his entire rescue squad was forced to rest shows 
their dedication.
LaRita Y. Hamilton
Behnam Farahpour/Photo Co-Editor
There were numerous concerns that The Islamic Center of Pittsburgh would be unfairly targeted during last weeks 
events. Although Mayor Murphy and a number of police officers paid visits, the Center still sustained minor damage.
Tragedy should result in unification, 
not violent ethnic stereotyping
ocean compared to the number of 
people around the world who 
support the United States one 
hundred percent and who are 
praying along with us.
Those who have an agenda will 
always be able to find reason to 
justify the terrorist attacks on our 
country. Apparently, Reverend 
Jerry Falwell and Pat Robertson of 
The 700 Club believe that the 
United States made itself vulnera
ble to the attacks because of our 
loose morals. Falwell said in one 
breath that it is the fault of 
pagans, abortionists, feminists, 
homosexuals, the American Civil 
Liberties Union, and the People for 
the American way. He said next 
that he didnt mean to blame any 
one group. In short, it is all of our 
faults. In one way or another, we 
deserved this. Falwell is no better 
than the terrorists who claim to 
have committed these crimes. As 
far as I know, no one has hurled 
angry epitaphs at Rev. Falwell.
Instead, innocent Muslim and 
Arab Americans are becoming sec
ondary victims of Tuesdays attack. 
I am glad to see that Americans are 
banding together in the face of this 
tragedy, but I hate the thought of 
Americans banding together 
against other Americans.
In the wake of last Tuesdays 
incidents, its okay to be scared 
and its okay to want justice. It, 
however, is not okay to unfairly 
target Arab and Muslim 
Americans for something that a 
few people did. I am alarmed at 
all the statements that I have 
heard on the radio and have read 
in newspapers calling for the 
removal of all foreigners and nat
uralized Americans from 
American soil.
I have read about Mosques 
being threatened, a woman and 
her children being chased from a 
Wal-Mart, and other horrifying 
stories; I could go on all day.
Tuesday morning, I had to wait 
a few hours before I heard from 
my father and stepmother, who 
both work at the Pentagon. 
Fortunately, both of them are fine 
and I spoke to them relatively 
quickly after the events. I told my 
classmates about my actions in 
class on Thursday, and the girl 
sitting next to me turned and 
said, I cant believe you went 
to class.
In hindsight, that seems pretty 
callous of me, but I didnt know 
what else to do. I was frightened 
and unsure of what to do next, so 
I went about my usual routine. 
Some people prayed, some peo
ple panicked, all of which are rea
sonable reactions. Almost every
one I knew, for some reason or 
another, was afraid.
Towards the afternoon of the 11th, I noticed that some people 
were getting angry, frighteningly 
so. I heard people say things 
about deporting Arab Americans, 
and making rude comments 
about Muslims.
At that point, I didnt have to 
worry about my parents anymore, 
and I started worrying about 
Muslim and Arab students on our 
campus and whether or not they 
would be unfairly targeted. The 
most popular response when I 
mentioned it to anyone was that 
they thought that students at 
Carnegie Mellon were too intelli
gent for that. That was what I fig
ured, but then I realized that 
some of this went beyond reason
ing. Its difficult to reason with 
people who have taken their fear 
and turned it into anger.
Students on college campuses 
like Carnegie Mellon and Pitt are 
exposed to people of all ethnici
ties and religions on a daily basis. 
Unfortunately, Carnegie Mellon 
and Pitt are not the standard 
across the country. They should 
be, but they are not. As a result, 
Arab Americans and Muslims 
across the country are being 
unfairly targeted for heinous 
crimes that have nothing to do 
with them. Well, they do have 
something to do with them. Their 
country has been attacked.
Its the magic of being a 
hyphenated American. In the eyes 
of our attackers, they were 
American before they were Arab 
or Muslim. In the eyes of those 
Americans who are out for 
revenge, they are Arab or Muslim 
before they are American.
The medias attempts to help 
quell anti-Muslim and Arab senti
ments are frankly, a little late. 
Yes, freedom of speech is very 
important in the US, but how 
intelligent is it to put ignorant 
people on the air while they spew
Its the magic of being a hyphenated 
American. In the eyes of our attackers, 
they were American before they were 
Arab or Muslim. In the eyes of those 
Americans... they are Arab or Muslim 
before they are American.
racist theories about how the 
United States should stop letting 
people into our country all 
together, and that we need to stop 
worrying about other people and 
take care of ourselves?
Some news stations had the 
nerve to air such talk and then 
show video footage of 
Palestinians who where chanting 
in the streets. I will not deny it, 
that was disturbing footage, but 
the number of those celebrating 
our misfortune is a drop in the
Prevention, I think, is just like \ 
giving blood. Every drop counts. ' 
So if you hear someone saying ' 
something derogatory, maybe 
you could try to talk to them. Not 
your style? Send a letter to your 
neighborhood Mosque or the 
local chapter of the Arab AntiDiscrimination Committee. Lets 
make sure that all Americans feel 
safe again.
LaRita Y. Hamilton is a senior 
creative writing major.
t40

---------------------------------------------------

Attention:
 Juniors
 4th year students in 5 year undergraduate programs
 Seniors who will graduate after 3 years of 
undergraduate study
Are you...
- in the upper 1/4 of your class?
- interested in a career in government or public service?
- a U.S. citizen or national?
Then you should find out more about the
FVnnd rb .ngAVi r6SThVnwStp lnTsnVA
The Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation was established by Congress in 1975 
as the official federal memorial to honor the 33rd President of the United States. In 
particular, the Truman Foundation extols President Trumans high regard for public 
service, his understanding of government, and his desire to enhance educational 
opportunities for all Americans.
In this spirit, the Truman Foundation (through the Truman Scholarship competition) 
seeks to encourage and support students (about 90 per year) who have outstanding 
potential for leadership in public service. Winners receive up to $30,000 for tuition, 
fees, books, and room/board ($3,000 for the senior year of undergraduate school, 
and up to $27,000 in graduate school [spread over two or three years of graduate 
study]).
Preliminary applications due: Friday. October 19.2001. Up to 3-4 students 
will soon thereafter be selected as University nominees, who will develop 
final applications for submission by mid-January, 2002.
Additional information: Information and preliminary application packets are available 
in the H&SS Academic Advisory Center, Baker Hall A57. Interested students may 
also contact the Carnegie Mellon Truman Scholarship liaison: Dr. Joseph Devine. 
Associate Dean of H&SS. Baker Hall A57 (email jd0x@andrew.cmu.edu, or phone 
x8-6117). Or consult the Truman Scholarship Program web page: www.truman.gov.
2001 Handspring Inc.. Handspring, Springboard. VisorPhcne, Visor and the Handspring logo are trademarks oi Handspring. Inc. Miiuiam MP3 player fiom fnnoGear, Inc. GPS Companion from Magellan Corp.
better than using your hand
Your hand is not a personal organizer.Your hand is not a GPS.Your hand is not a cell phone.Your hand is not an MP3 player.
More than just a personal organizer - with optional Springboard modules, 
you can turn Visor into a phone, an MP3 player or any number of handy devices.
Great student discount:
Visor Deluxe only S159.99 PLUS free case* ($49.95 value) with purchase. 
For a limited time and only at your school bookstore.
Springboard modules sold separately. Wireless service required for communication modu!e{s).
Free case offer good only with the purchase of a Visor Deluxe bought July 15.2001. through September 15.2C01. at participating resellers. Receive bifcfd leather case at register at time o| purchase only while supplies last. Restrictions apply

---------------------------------------------------

gil
WANTED
Mentors
Achievers
Challengers
Pursuers
MIIMOS. WIDE OPEE IM 
www. gs. com
Goldman Sachs, an eqa opportunity employer, does not discriminate in employment on any basis that is prohibited by federal, state or local laws.  2001 Goldman, Sachs & Co.
We offer real opportunities:
 To work side by side with business partners on technology that brings 
creative business strategies to life
 To be part of a team of dynamic, bright people who will challenge you and 
the technology you develop to make the most of business opportunities
 To develop in a fast-paced yet supportive environment that welcomes 
new people and new ideas
Goldman, Sachs & Co.
Technology Graduate Information Session
Wednesday, October 24, 2001 
5:30 pm - 7:00 pm 
Mellon/Rachel Mellon Room at GSIA
Restructuring mortgage bonds to meet investors needs requires Deirdres intense concentration. 
Before races, she uses the same kind of focus on the starting block. What keeps you sharp?
Facts: 3,000 people across 20 countries, over $1.5 billion per year investment in technology.
Goldman Sachs is a leading global investment banking and 
securities firm, providing a full range of investment and financial services 
to corporations, governments, institutions and individuals worldwide.
The Technology Division offers graduates unique
opportunities to create the technology that is reshaping the world's 
financial markets.
i

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  SEPTEMBER 17, 2001An
classified
Opportunities
Start your own Fraternity! Zeta Beta 
Tau is looking for men to start a new 
Chapter. If you are interested in acade
mic success, a chance to network and 
an opportunity to make friends in a 
non-pledging Brotherhood, e-mail: 
zbt@zbtnational.org or call 800-431- 
9674.
Part-Time sitter needed for boys 1 3 
and 15. Must have a car to assist in 
transportation. Day: (412) 338 4690; 
Evening: (412) 531-5593
Native speaker of foreign language 
needed to baby-sit on a regular basis. 
Car not necessary. Call (412) 323- 
9545.
Spring Break 2002 !!! Student Express 
is now hiring sales reps. Cancn fea
tures FREE meals and parties @ Fat 
Tuesdays - MTV Beach Headquarters. 
Acapulco, Mazatlan, Jamaica,
Bahamas, South Padre, Florida. Prices
from $469, with Major Airlines. 24,000 
travelers in 2001. Call 800-787-3787 
for a FREE brochure or email 
bookit@studentexpress.com. www.studentexpress.com.
Classified Rates
1-20 words........$10.00/wk
21-50 words........$12.00/wk
51-100 words......$15.00/wk
MAIL TO:
The Tartan, Box 17 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
 Classifieds must be paid in cash 
or check before first run date
 On-campus departments and 
organizations may pay by journal 
transfer
 Due by 5 pm the Thursday 
before publication
THE TARTAN
268-2111
What to Do if You Are Feeling Stress From 
the Tragic Events of September 11
What Can 1 Do?
Avoid viewing repeated Return to your usual routine.
media coverage of the event* Find a peaceful, quiet place to
Talk it out!reflect and gain perspective.
Ask for help if you need it. Do something that could
Listen to other people.help othersmake an 
appointment to give blood,
Be especially kind to others.take a first aid or CPR class.
Spend time with your family.
For more information about how you can help, contact your 
local American Red Cross chapter or visit www.redcross.org.
American Red Cross
Together, we can save a life
Interested in sitting on a University Committee?
Pick up an application in the Student Activities Office, UC, Suite 103. 
Applications due by September 21, 2001 at 5:00pm in Student Activities.
2000-2001 University Committees
Academic Review Board
Students serve with faculty and staff on a 5-7 person board which reviews matters of alleged 
violations of university standards of academic integrity.
Design Review Committee
Students serve with faculty and staff in considering all matters of major construction of renovation 
within the campus.
Health Services & Insurance Advisory Committee
Students advise the director of health services on matters pertaining to the health center and the 
university's students insurance policy.
Sexual Harassment Committee
Students serve with faculty and staff on the committee charged with educating the campus 
regarding sexual harassment and with responding to issues which arise in this regard.
Trustee Committees: Educational Affairs & Enrollment
Budget 
Development
Students advise the members of the universitys Board of Trustees on various matters relating to 
the vision and future of the university.
Undergraduate Academic Advising Committee
Students assist in the process of reviewing candidates for the university's primary award for 
exceptional undergraduate academic advising.
University Parking Committee
Students serve with faculty and staff to advise the directors of the university parking service in 
order to enhance overall service to the campus.
Office of Technology in Education
The OTE realizes that many of its projects (such as the Blackboard project)
will have a direct effect on students. The OTE student advisory committee will help direct the
efforts of OTEs development of instructional tools and services at Carnegie Mellon.
Library Task Force
Students serve with faculty and staff to advise the direction of the libraries to enhance overall 
service to the campus.
All applications will be reviewed for potential vacancies in the above listed committees. If 
you have any, please contact Denise Fazio, Coordinator of Student Activities, 
fazio@andrew.cmu.edu
Phi Beta Kappa members of the university 
community extend their congratulations to the 
following students, who were initiated into 
Upsilon of Pennsylvania, Carnegie Mellon's 
chapter of the Phi Beta Kappa Society, on Saturday, 
May 19, 2001.
K i mberl y A nne AI geri 
N eema B i pi n Avashi a 
Shyam Sunder Ayengar 
Bryan Alexander BIey 
Evan S. Beach 
Julie Anne Bogart 
Luke Daniel Brindle 
Katherine Elizabeth Calver 
Danni el I e El i zabeth Ci sneros 
Melissa Jane Collinsworth 
Jason AI an Crawford 
Emi ly Theresa Crement 
Amy Beth Cyphert 
M el i ssa Wong D unford 
Nicole Jeanine Emery 
Kate J. Figiel 
FilipeP. Fortes 
Johanna N i col e Yokota Frankl i n 
John Edward H i nri chsen 
David Benjamin Johnson 
Jason Paul Jordan 
Cari Grace Kaufman 
David Ryan Koes 
Kristina Myriam Lamothe 
Ann Lin 
Seth Ian Mandel 
Daniel Maynes-Aminzade 
Joshua John McConnell 
M i chael Robert M cL aughl i n 
Ann Marie Me9co 
Brittany Erin Pbwell 
Gretchen Anne R nhart 
Maayan Roth 
Adam J. Ruprecht 
Michele Diane Savery 
Melissa Ann Schmelzer 
Brennan Peter Sellner 
Mari a Carol Sensi 
Benjamin John Smith 
Yehuda Snir
Chri stopher Thomas Sol I i tto 
David Stern-Gottfried 
Kristoffer Keith Stokes 
Regina D. Tassone 
Choon Hong Tay 
Daniel Kenneth Tennant 
Robert William Tracey 
Margaret Constance Wardle 
Phi I i p Andrew Wei nmei ster 
Kristin M. Weinzierl 
Rachel Marie Whipple 
Ming Fa Wong 
Rhys L. Wong

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
Other schools decisions lead to cancellation of athletic events
Many areas of the CMU adminis
tration were involved in the discus
sion of the cancellations, but ulti
mately it was left up to the respec
tive coaches whether they wanted 
to call off their events or partici
pate.
On Friday morning, Athletic 
Director Dr. John Harvey, after con
sulting Dean of Students Michael 
Murphy and Vice President Bill 
Elliott, announced that all CMU 
athletic events for the weekend 
would be cancelled. Later in the 
day, however, he retracted that 
statement and decided to leave the 
decision up to the coaches.
Canceling events was a difficult 
decision for each coach, but some 
felt that the right thing to do would 
be to move on and not let the 
tragedy affect the personal lives of 
their players by limiting their privi
lege to play their respective sports.
I think the teams attitude was 
to get out there and play, especially 
because it was off campus, said 
mens soccer head coach Nick 
Gaudioso. We left the decision up
ing factors. After the cancellation 
news of the of the NFL, MLB, and 
other Division I college sports, the 
administration knew it was time to 
seriously consider following suit.
There were also many players on 
the athletic teams that were direct
ly affected by the events, and as the 
week dragged on, it was becoming 
increasingly apparent that there 
should be some consideration to 
canceling athletic events for the 
weekend.
For example, the football team 
decided at their practice session on 
Thursday that they would not play 
their Saturday game. The decision 
was made with no input from 
administration.
There were players on the team 
that had reservations about playing 
on Saturday, said football head 
coach Rich Lackner. Football is the 
ultimate collision team sport, and 
collectively as a coaching staff, we 
decided on Thursday night that the 
right thing to do would be to cancel 
the game. The administration was 
behind us the whole way.
by Preston Treichel
Staffwriter
The sports section of The Tartan 
may seem a little bit slim this week, 
but theres a reasonable explana
tion for that. In light of the recent 
tragedy that struck our nation this 
past week, CMU weekend athletic 
events were either cancelled or 
postponed in some shape or form.
The decision to cancel involved 
the entire administration, and it 
was certainly not taken lightly. 
After careful consideration, 
announcements were finally made 
Friday morning to the effect that all 
athletic events over the weekend 
would be cancelled.
However, later in the day, those 
statements were taken back and 
the administration decided that the 
rest of the weekends decisions 
would be left for the particular 
coaches to decide for themselves.
The choice to refrain from partic
ipating in contests for the weekend 
was the result of various influencSports fans seek distractions over weekend
NEW YORK (AP)  As he does 
every weekend, Douglas Mackin 
took the bus to Manhattan, 
walked to a sports bar in Times 
Square and scanned the 14 TVs 
lighting up a wall.
At 1 pm on this Sunday, though, 
Mackin couldnt watch NFL kickoffs. Instead, as he sat on a stool 
and sipped his usual draft beer, he 
saw newscasts filled with updates 
on the terrorist attacks.
I just hope we get back to nor
mal, the Bayonne, New Jersey, 
resident said. Its very impor
tant.
Similar scenes played out 
nationwide on a sportsless week
end. No NFL, college football, or 
major league baseball. No cheer
ing or high-fiving. No games to 
offer distractions.
While the NFL worked on plans 
to make up the lost games, stadi
um parking lots were desolate. So 
were nearby hotels and restau
rants where fans normally might 
gear up before a game.
The New York Giants had 
Sunday off. The day before, 35 
members of the team went to the 
rescue site at th World Trade 
Center, where thousands are 
missing after the Twin Towers 
were hit by hijacked planes on
Tuesday.
Outside Indianapolis RCA 
Dome, players and cheerleaders 
held jars to collect cash donations 
for victims funds from passers-by.
Its pretty emotional, Colts 
tackle Adam Meadows said. As 
bad as we all want to play, I think 
its appropriate that we dont play 
today.
Chicago resident Mike Tripp 
walked his dog, Cinder, in the 
empty lot outside Soldier Field, 
across Columbus Drive from his 
home.
I can hear the roar from my 
place on a normal Sunday, Tripp 
said. This is really kind of 
strange. It would be packed and 
this lot would be overflowing and 
people would be grilling and flags 
would be flying.
Those sights and sounds of foot
ball will have to wait until next 
week. Baseball, meanwhile, has 
six games scheduled Monday 
after 91 were postponed.
We might physically be there, 
said three-time Cy Young Award 
winner Randy Johnson, the 
Diamondbacks starter against 
the Rockies on Monday night, 
but mentally our minds might 
possibly be elsewhere, and thats 
understandable.
The 59-year-old Mackin found 
himself drawn to the ESPNZone 
at 42nd Street because, he said 
Sunday, Its something to do. 
Outside, a man in black shorts 
and a shirt with colors of the 
Italian flag, steered his bicycle 
down Broadway. Unencumbered 
by cars or pedestrians, he could 
have been on a hill in Tuscany.
A mile away at Central Park, 
under the bluest of skies, the 
Henry brothers tossed a football
 a simple pleasure at a time 
filled with few.
Theres a lot of pressure to 
resume normal living, but this 
isnt normal living, Kevin Henry 
said as he caught a pass. There 
are 5,000 dead people right down 
the street. Theyre dead, and 
theyre still there right now. 
People need to resist the urge to 
fall back into normalcy and com
placency.
At Cincinnatis Cinergy Field, 
Carl Ladwig read a paperback 
while working at a ticket window. 
Only one fan came by Saturday to 
exchange tickets to the Reds post
poned game against the Phillies.
Its eerie, said the 75-year-old 
Ladwig, a World War II veteran. 
We cant stop living. We cant 
stop being America. And America
is baseball and hot dogs.
Brian and Wendy Nelson were 
starting their trek home from 
Nashville, Tenn., to Niagara Falls, 
Canada, when they spotted a 
gathering in the Adelphia 
Stadium parking lot. Had the 
NFL, the Nelsons wondered, 
decided to play, after all?
We thought this was a tailgat
ing party, Brian said, but we 
crashed a wedding.
Indeed, bride Lucinda Poole 
wore white (a Tennessee Titans 
away jersey) and groom Randy 
Wilmore wore blue (an away jer
sey).
Casey Moreland, a county 
judge, officiated in the referee 
shirt he was supposed to wear 
while working as a replacement 
official at the Broncos-Colts 
game.
The Nashville Sports Authority 
ordered the stadiums parking lots 
closed, but voted to allow the 
wedding, which was planned in 
April.
Its been a week of tragedy, a 
week of heartbreak, a week of 
tears, and a week of fear, 
Moreland said. So Randy and 
Cindy have given us something 
joyful to share.
The women s soccer team 
remained undefeated this week 
by defeating Grove City on 
Wednesday in overtime drama, 
2-1. Off of a corner kick four 
minutes into the extra session, 
sophomore midfielder Ericka 
Anderson broke the stalemate 
that resulted after regulation 
play.
Carnegie Mellon took a 1-0 
lead in the second minute of 
the game when senior midfield
er Ashley Wermine scored. 
Grove Citys Lady Wolverines 
tied the game in the 20th 
minute when sophomore for
ward Meg Tilley netted a goal, 
assisted by first-year forward 
Michelle Novosel. But they 
could not keep the Tartans 
scoreless, losing minutes into 
overtime.
We had a hard time scoring, 
though we had many opportu
nities, said senior defender
Mens soccer focuses, wins season opener 2-0
nights. Please stay off the tennis 
courts during varsity practice. 
Only athletic shoes permitted on 
the courts at all times. No boots, 
sandals, or dress shoes.
by Balaji Sarpeshkar
Sports Editor
Co-Rec Volleyball  Matches 
began playing last week in the 
University Center Gym. Matches 
are played Monday through 
Thursday nights. A make up 
schedule for September 11 games 
is posted at the University Center.
The mens soccer team faced an 
unusual foe as they opened their 
season last Wednesday night at 
Gesling Stadium. In the wake of 
Tuesdays events, the squad had to 
dig deep to find the ability to focus 
on the task at hand. They proved 
that they were up to the challenge, 
however, as they easily dealt with 
the visiting Mount Union College 
and won the match by a score of
2-0.
Furthermore, the men had to 
show that they could perform to 
the level of last years team, from 
which only a handful of starters 
returned. The relative youth of the 
team was not a factor, however, as 
the offense rolled through the 
porous Mount Union defense and 
threw a total of 20 shots at the net.
In addition, the Tartan defenders 
were in top form within the box, 
allowing a meager total of three 
shots. Even when the opponents 
could get a kick through to the net, 
senior goalkeeper Tom Dougherty 
was more than up to the task, skill
fully deflecting anything that came 
his way. Of course, he never really 
had a chance to test out his skills, 
since his cohorts did a fair imper
sonation of a brick wall.
The team played solidly despite 
having several key contributors out 
with injuries.
Were a little beat up right now, 
said head coach Nick Gaudioso. I 
wasnt sure how good we were goiing to be, but we played better than 
they did.
Last season, a very young team, 
composed mostly of first-year stu
dents, were able to take the Tartans 
to the University Athletic 
Association (UAA) title and earn a 
bid to the NCAA Division III tournaAdministration
Director of Intramurals: Mike 
Mastroianni, x8-2214 or mma8+ 
Assistant Director: Mike
Grzywinski, x8-2214 or immike+ 
Secretary: Amy Kiryk, x8-2053 or 
kiryk+
President: Mike Edwards,
X2-2993
Womens President: Amy Tsao, x2- 
2938
Sports Upcoming
Water Polo  The season will 
begin Monday, September 24th at 
the UC Pool. Schedules will be 
available this week.
Important Dates
Thursday, September 20  IM 
Board Meeting at 3 pm in Skibo 
Gym Conference Room
Bowling  Matches are played at 
the Pittsburgh Athletic 
Association lanes on Fifth Avenue 
in Oakland. Rosters are due 
Thursday by 4:30 pm in the IM 
Office. Matches will begin 
Sunday, September 23. Schedules 
will be out later this week.
Sunday, September 23  Bowling 
begins at PAA
Monday, September 24  Water 
Polo begins at UC PoolIM Golf Tournament
The 2001 IM Golf Tournament 
will be Sunday, October 14th at 
the Schenley Park Golf Course. 
Green fees are reduced to $13 
with a CMU ID and club rental is 
$6. Tee off anytime and bring 
score cards to the IM Office in 
Skibo Gym.
Thursday, September 27  
Rosters due for Soccer, Volleyball, 
Racquetball, and Foosball at 4:30 
pm in the IM Office.
Sunday, October 14  IM Golf 
Tourney at Schenley Golf Course.
Sports in Season
Flag Football  They are under
way at the IM and Stadium fields. 
Games are played Monday 
through Thursday evenings and 
Sunday afternoons. Please stay off 
the fields during varsity team 
practices. Make up dates for 
September 11 games will be avail
able later this week.
Other IM News
The IM Office is still looking for 
football and soccer officials. 
Contact the IM Office if you are 
interested.Behnam Farahpour/Photo Co-Editor
Despite fielding a depleted lineup on Wednesday, the mens soccer team was still able to run away with their opener, 
ment. Despite losing in the first looks to repeat their impressive rience, the team should be able to
round, the men still performed performance from last season, use its work ethic to its advantage,
admirably against tough competi- building on the lessons they outworking other teams on the way
tion, taking big games against UAA learned on the way to the schools to the top.
powerhouses Chicago, Rochester, first UAA title. Once some of the The guys are very blue-collar, 
and Emory injured players return to the field said Gaudioso. Theyre a bunch of
This year, a slightly older team and the younger players gain expe- very hard workers.
Watch this column for the date for 
IM Cross Country.
If you have any questions, call the 
IM Office at x8-2214. Remember, 
all email rosters must be received 24 
hours prior to the due date.
Tennis  The season has begun at 
the university courts. Matches are 
played Monday through Thursday

---------------------------------------------------

vmg
17 September 2001THE TARTAN Section B
Tragic Tuesday
Carnegie Mellon Unites in the Aftermath
Gary Tsai/Junior Photo Staff
Clockwise from top left: As flag flies at half mast, a CMU student considers the events of this past 
week. The campus community gathered for a prayer circle in honor of the victims of the September 
11th terrorist attacks. A CMU student examines the messages that various members of the com
munity painted on the Fence. Students set up many fundraisers, including face painting. A can
dlelight vigil was held Tuesday night. Many students contributed to the painting of the Fence 
Tuesday night to express messages of hope and peace. As news of the attacks spread, students 
gathered to watch as the events unfolded live. Students mourn for the victims of last weeks tragedy.
REACTION, from page A1 
The fraternity Phi Kappa Theta, 
despite having guarded the fence for 
the past weeks, invited everyone to 
paint the fence with words of condo
lence and hope for all involved in the 
incident. Students strode forward to 
paint the Fence, traditionally a sym
bol of youth and exuberance on 
CMUs campus, in somber silence, 
with calls to Unity and Peace. 
On Wednesday afternoon, a forum
was held in the Rangos Room of the 
University Center, with the intention of 
letting students and staff voice any 
thoughts they had on Tuesdays 
tragedy. It was an intimate gathering, 
and many speakers suggested courses 
of action, from setting up a dialogue 
panel to raising funds for the American 
Red Cross. A few others expressed their 
grief and their sudden sense of vulner
ability as their country that was once 
See REACTION, page B2
Behnam Farahpour/Photo Co-EditorShaina McGrath/Photo Co-Editor

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  SEPTEMBER 17,2001Pittsburgh Symphony opens season on Acts of kindness 
somber note in honor of tragic events occur across campus
by Paul Richelmi
Assistant Entertainment Editor
The 2001-2002 season of the Pittsburgh 
Symphony Orchestra opened this weekend on a 
somber note. The program had orginally been 
planned to be a celebration of life, both musical
ly and otherwise. Rimsky-Korsakovs Capriccio 
Espagnole and the world premiere of Russian 
composer Rodion Shchedrins Lolita-Serenade 
were to be performed. However, due to this 
weeks senseless terrorist acts, Maestro Mariss 
Jansons and the orchestra appropriately chose 
to alter their program.
Mariss Jansons, conductor and music direc
tor of the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra, was 
welcomed to thunderous applause Friday 
night. It was his first Heinz Hall appearance 
with the orchestra since back trouble at the 
end of last season. Without wasting time, the 
orchestra stood, and began the Star Spangled 
Banner. Following that, Tom Todd, president 
of the Pittsburgh Symphony Board, spoke 
about the orchestras program change and also 
remarked briefly about the past Tuesdays 
events. Pittsburgh Mayor Tom Murphy and
lowed suit.
Evgeny Kissin had been scheduled to open 
with Brahms Piano Concert in B-flat Major, but 
he had been moved until after intermission. 
Instead, the orchestra played Aaron Coplands 
Fanfare for the Common Man, the second 
movement of Beethovens Eroica Symphony, 
and the finale of Tchaikovskys Pathetique 
Symphony. These pieces were chosen to 
express the deep sympathy the orchestra felt 
toward the victims and survivors of the terror
ist attacks. The orchestra said what no words 
could in the first half. They let their hearts 
and their souls speak for them. As these pieces 
were played to duly express the orchestras 
feelings, I have no place commenting on them. 
Needless to say, it was the finest Ive ever 
heard an orchestra play.
Fridays performance reaffirmed the impor
tance of music in todays society. The hauntingly beautiful performace said much more 
than any speech could have said. The mes
sage sent was truer and purer than any politi
cal satement that one might try to give. 
Music, more than any other art form, has the 
power to express what words cannot. This is 
true for all music, not just symphonic repertime period tells a story. The early jazz of the 
30s and 40s expresses the playfulness that 
America felt at that time. The music of that 
period embodies the hopeless romanticism 
and the feeling of invincibility that was promi
nent throughout the United States. Music and 
life go hand in hand. Art imitates life.
If we accept that to be true, then we must 
look at the music of today. Much of it glorifies 
violence, drug use, and a general disrespect 
for other human beings. The tragic events of 
last Tuesday mirror what we hear in todays 
popular music. Granted, these attacks were 
foreign rather than domestic, but in a society 
where words and acts of violence are thrown 
about whimsically, location doesnt matter. 
We should turn to music and art for social 
gauging and correction. When the common 
thread in entertainment and art goes against 
social values that are good and just, action 
must be taken. Not by any government, but by 
society itself. The recent exhibit in a New York 
City art museum exemplifies this point. 
Smearing fecal matter on the Blessed Virgin 
isnt art, its a mockery of the beliefs of mil
lions of people all over the world. Such things 
should strike the social conscience, and 
See SYMPHONY, page B4Allegheny County executive Jim Roddey fol- toire. The music of each generation, of eachEntertainment opportunities abound as 
group starts intense fundraising campaign
by Alissa Green
Junior Staffwriter
At the close of every year, many 
of the senior students planning on 
working in the field of theater, 
whether it be in acting, design, 
playwriting, or other areas, trek off 
to New York and Los Angeles in the 
hopes of making much needed con
nections to further their careers. 
Leagues, a relatively unknown off
shoot organization comprised of 
students in the Drama Department, 
organizes these trips, plans for 
catering, room space, and all the 
little extras needed for impressing 
business big shots. There really is 
only one other small detail needed 
to understand the purpose of 
Leagues: They need exorbitant 
amounts of funding to pay for all 
these expenditures.
Even though the University 
pays for the majority of the New 
York trip, the students are pri
marily responsible for the fund
ing for their L.A. expedition. 
Approximately 60 students have 
expressed a desire to participate in 
this years Leagues, with each per
son required to pay a minimum of 
$800, making the estimated 
amount for this years program well 
over $48,000. This year, Leagues 
has initiated a new fundraising 
effort by having Tuesday night ben
efit performances for the commu
nity before each of the Chosky 
Theater productions. Some events 
planned for the benefit perfor
mances include backstage tours, 
question and answer sessions with 
the director and actors, and general 
receptions. Other scheduled events 
include several cabaret shows at 
the James Street Restaurant and on 
campus. The first will be an 
evening of Cole Porter music on 
October 27 from 9 to 11 pm with 
tickets costing $8. Additionally, on 
October 6 and 7, senior musical 
theater majors will present Les 
Miserables in a concert setting with 
the location still to be determined.
Additonally, the necessity and 
urgency of Leagues should not be 
overlooked. Numerous CMU 
alums have formed connections 
directly through Leagues, includ
ing. Emily Skinner (BFA, 1992) 
who just received a Tony nomina
tion for her work in Sideshow on 
Broadway; Dennis Kenney, who 
received a part in the Pokemon 
tour, and Joe Manganiello who 
received a $200,000 holding fee 
from a major studio after present
ing himself at the L.A. portion of 
Leagues and will soon be appear
ing in the movie Spider Man as 
Flash Thompson.
Telly Leung, a senior musical 
theater major, who is also heavily 
involved with the organization 
said, Its incredible what a 
launching pad Leagues is. Agents 
are avenues of opportunity for 
employment. Theyre the ticket 
into a world otherwise closed off 
to actors without representation. 
Actors with representation go fur
ther in the business because they
now have all the connections the 
agent has.
Depending on the location, with 
New York having an equal empha
sis on straight and musical theater, 
and L.A. having a sole emphasis on 
television and screen, the actors 
prepare different selections to 
show off their individual qualities 
in one and a half minute slots. 
Meanwhile playwrights, produc
tion technology managers, and 
directors meet with various gurus 
in their profession. Historically, 
the New York trip has been com
prised of various prestigious con
servatories. This year is no excep
tion with schools such as 
Northwestern, Fordham, Rutgers 
University, and others participat
ing. However, the L.A. trip, which 
began around five years ago, is 
mostly arranged through the help 
of CMU alums.
Perhaps Leung sums up the 
Leagues experience best, saying, 
Basically, its us saying, Heres 
Carnegie Mellon. Were coming!
REACTION, from page B1 
thought infallible was thoroughly 
violated.
On a different note, Provost Mark 
Hamlet lauded the activist spirit 
demonstrated by the school commu
nity and recounted how Carnegie 
Mellon had provided logistical sup
port to the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation and offered to support 
the State Emergency Services. 
Determinedly, Hamlet said that it is 
the refusal to back down, to have 
classes today, to carry on, that will 
ultimately beat terrorism.
Most students, staff, and faculty 
have responded to the situation 
with fear and sadness, but also a 
quick and powerful call for peace 
and togetherness. My overwhelm
ing sentiment is sorrow. Sorrow for 
the lives lost, for the injured, and 
for the family and friends of those 
most directly impacted. One cant 
help but be uplifted, though, by the 
courage and compassion of people 
throughout the world in response 
to this tragedy. It is demonstrative 
of not just what America stands for, 
but what all free societies stand 
for, said Murphy.
Besides uniting in American 
pride, CMU has also come togeth
er in campus pride. We have all 
lamented at one point or another
how distinct our various ambi
tions make the discourse of our 
day-to-day lives, but no one could 
ever now question the underlying 
bond of the members of our 
University family, said Murphy. 
At our time of greatest need, our 
essential care for one another, and 
for others beyond the campus, has 
been unfailing. It will continue to 
be, I know.
Aseem Garg, a senior in social 
and decision sciences and the pres
ident of Amnesty International, 
hopes that the campus will main
tain a mood of peace and commu
nity and will not lash out at those 
who are not truly responsible for 
the events. During this horrific 
time it is important to refrain from 
scapegoating on the basis of race or 
religion and to ensure that the 
rights and freedoms that 
Americans hold dear are not tram
pled in our hunger for vengeance. 
Justice, not vengeance, should be 
the goal, he said.
Dewitt Latimer, a masters stu
dent in civil engineering and an 
Alpha Phi Omega member, left,a 
meaningful message for the canjpus in his statement, acts of kind
ness on campus are a slap in the 
face for the people that committed 
the attacks.
Write tor
THE TARTAN
tartan @ x.8-2111
Student composer and director of Heliopause, CMUs newest opera 
premiering at Wats:on festival, speaks about project and himself
by Tiffany Lee
Junior Staffwriter 
& Sinduja Srinivasan
Junior Staffwriter
< Habib Azar is a fifth-year senior of drama and music 
composition at Carnegie Mellon University, and like 
many at CMU, he is taking steps toward the extraordi
nary. Azar is the author of the opera, Heliopause. When 
asked to give a brief description on what the opera is 
about, Azar said, ... it is about four characters traveling 
through space in search of the Heliopause  which is 
the place where light ends and a metaphor for enlight
enment and heaven. The story tracks the characters as 
their perceptions of each other and their personal val
ues change in their quest for finding perfection. Azar 
recently found time in his busy schedule to sit down 
with us and provide some insight into the person 
behind CMUs newest debut opera.
I
I Q. When did you first show an interest in opera and 
theater? Was there any particular influence, like one 
play or person?
I A. My greatest musical influences are John Adams 
and Aaron Copland. I would say I first became interest
ed in the theater through my high school, and that was 
solidified through a summer program at the end of my 
junior year when I got the opportunity to study with 
Whit McLaughlin, who has had a great impact on my 
directing style. Opera did not become a passion of mine 
until college. I would say that the opera that ignited the 
fore in me was Nixon in China, by John Adams. It is still 
my favorite opera  anyone who doesnt know it 
should go out and buy the cd it is a masterpiece! I still 
Icant say that I know very much about opera  the 
problem is that there is so much to listen to and read 
about, and nowhere near enough time to do it all while 
youre going to school. Two years ago I put on my first 
opera  a short childrens opera based on the story of The Little Prince. 
VVe performed it in the Rauh Studio Theatre for two sold-out audiences 
and drew over 500 people to the live Webcast of it. While I was working 
on it, my composition teacher told me that after writing my first opera I
would be addicted to writing them for life... and he was right. There is
nothing more consuming or intimidating than mounting an opera, but at 
the same time  it is the most powerful art form I know. The sheer mag
nitude of an opera is enough to overwhelm someone. Nowhere else can 
you have music, singing, acting, dancing, and stage design interact in such 
a massive way.
! Q. Who, or what, provided the inspiration for it?I
A. The impetus for the story came from the librettist, Thom Williams, who is 
an established haiku poet from Philadelphia. I then took the idea and molded 
it into a dramatic story, which he then took and turned into poetic dialogue. For 
me  I wanted to explore our search for purpose in life, and the dynamic that
Habib Azar, composer and director of the new opera, Heliopause, show off the set of his most recent work which wil 
premiere during the Wats:on festival this Friday and Saturday.
our personal values and expectations have on others when we interact.
Q. How did you get started writing and composing Heliopause? Were 
the staff members open and helpful with your project?
A. We began a year and a half ago with the simple idea and then started 
feeling people out to see how feasible it would be. People were pretty 
excited after The Little Prince so I tried to ride that wave and see what sup
port I could get for a bigger project. I knew I wanted to do something in 
the Chosky Theater  so we actually began by trying to rent the theaterfrom the School of Drama. Then we found out that the Wats:on festival 
would be the week before we planned on doing our show so we pitched 
the idea to Wats:on. They loved it and agreed to be the major sponsor and 
commission the work. After that we started fundraising, and that went so 
well early on, that we more than doubled our original budget; we then 
realized that we could make this production much bigger. Right now 
there are over 100 people involved in the production and the man hours 
spent are innumerable. We have also created a production company
named Beanstalk Entertainment, starting with this 
show. You can log onto the Web site to see our mission 
statement.
One of the most exciting things for us is going to be 
the Webcast of the opera. We are going to be sending 
out a live video and audio stream from 
http://www.beanstalkentertainment.com during the 
Saturday night performance. Right now there will be 
a high and low quality Quicktime feed and were 
working out a Windows media feed. The production 
will then be available through the Web site on demand 
for about a year. We have a very talented recording 
engineer, Ricardo Shultz, doing the sound (he profes
sionally records all of the Pittsburgh Opera produc
tions and has worked with such distinguished artists 
as Luciano Pavarotti) and we have a drama alumnus, 
Danielle Turbide, directing the two camera videos. 
This way people all over the world can watch the 
opera from their homes.
Q. What are your predictions for your future?
A. I have no idea what Im going to do, or what I want 
to do when I leave college  I have a few months, 
right? Im just trying to keep myself busy from project 
to project  I start my next production the day after 
the opera, and hopefully we will do a production of 
the Tenderland this spring.
Q. How involved are you in the production of your 
opera? If you cast the roles, how did you know those 
singers would portray the characters as you wanted 
them to be portrayed? If someone else directed it, 
were there any conflicts between your vision of the 
opera and his?
A. I cast and directed the opera  I basically knew 
from my past experiences with the people that they 
would be right for the parts.
Q. What are your other interests?
A. You dont really get to have many other interests when you are doing 
something like this  it consumes your life. I am in a fraternity, Phi Kappa 
Theta, and actually a lot of the people working on the show are in that 
house. Our set designer, our Webcast manager, our designers, and a lot of 
our carpenters are all in Phi Kap, which is nice. I am also going to be going 
into rehearsal for my senior thesis play the day after the opera closes. That 
will be performed October 31 through November 2 in the Rauh Studio 
Theatre. It is called The Surgeon of Honor.
Heliopause will be playing at the Phillip Chosky Theater, from 
September 21-22. For more information or to purchase tickets, call the 
CMU Drama School box office at x8-2407. Also, a synopsis of the opera 
can be found at http://www.beanstalkentertainment.com, along with a 
comprehensive background on Heliopauses author, Habib Azar.
Sally Buzzuto/Junior Photo Staff

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  SEPTEMBER 17, 2001
saddened bv the terrible tragedies
Biit its important tii do something., io help out. I m 
"oi% to forme blood because I know it will help 
'..jvc lives. f don't mind m,siting m hoc becau.se it's 
important, ill?' is where I want to be, With other 
people who warn to help too.
I he \menean Red Qoss prnlowrmly grateful to 
all blood donors everywhere, every day. We arc espc 
dally jwi.nd of your eotyimicment ro help .save a life 
' rnl mouths ilio.nl. Wr eon HI not
aive tillik' ithuut von.
New York City resident recounts personal day of anxiety and terror
NG, from page A6
I found a computer in Cyert to see 
if I could contact my family online. 
Suddenly, I received an email from 
my roommate saying: CALL HOME 
NOW. My cell phone showed a new 
voicemail message had arrived. I 
knew this was a message from my 
family but the cellular network was 
completely overwhelmed. After a 
series of failed attempts, I heard my 
brother's voice: This is your broth
er... please call home now... mom 
is worried. We heard Pittsburgh is 
the next target. I slammed down 
the phone and just cried as I felt 
completely helpless. We just lived 
with great panic as each busy signal 
continued to lock the safety status of 
our loved ones.1:45 pm  A flood of relief and 
joy as my call finally connected with 
my mother. At the first sound of her 
Voice, I cried harder than I ever had 
before. Mom was crying too, and said 
that she knew that as soon as she 
heard from me, I would be crying. 
She didnt know where Somerset 
County was, all she heard in the news 
was Pittsburgh. She wanted to know 
if-I was somewhere safe. I told her 
that I was, not knowing that just 
about an hour ago, Cyert Hall was 
evacuated. Then she told me that Mel 
had been home all morning, as had 
my father. She also told me that my 
friend Amy, who works in the World 
Trade Center, had overslept and had
nt made it to work. Mom made me 
promise her that I wouldn't go any
where unsafe because she knew I i
would want to be somewhere to help 
as a paramedic. I told her that I would 
/be careful and we ended our call to 
frefe up the phone lines for others still 
trying to talk with their loved ones. I 
spent the next two hours frantically 
/searching for email addresses and 
;phone numbers of all of my friends in 
New York City. I went to Stuyvesant 
High School, only a short distance 
from the disaster area. I also tried to 
call my friends families in New York 
to confirm their safety and sent out 
emails and voicemails of the news. 
Thankfully, everyone I know direcdy 
was blessed. Sadly, a few friends of 
my friends were not as fortunate. I 
stopped crying as the initial shock 
passed.4 pm  I went to the UC to sign 
up to give blood. I saw my friend 
Tom, who went to high school with 
me. His family was also okay, as were 
many of our mutual friends in the 
City. We stood in line with the others.
I had never seen so many CMU mem
bers stationary in one place, waiting 
patiently without any complaint. The 
large TV in Kirr Commons continued 
the endless news coverage but I 
refused to look in its direction. I need
ed time to prepare myself for seeing 
what really happened. Various suspi
cions were made as to who was 
responsible for the tragedies. I silent
ly prayed that people would not 
make any rash comments and actions 
from these accusations. After waiting 
for almost two hours, we left without 
giving blood, as the Central Blood 
Bank was overwhelmed with the 
generosity of individuals.
7:30 pmMy friends and I went 
to dinner. I was starting to feel tired 
and couldnt focus on the conversa
tions around the table. Purposely, I 
chose to sit where I could not see the 
TV. I froze in place as I heard from 
the TV people singing God Bless 
America. As much as I tried not to 
cry in public, tears rolled down my 
cheeks again.9:15 pm  I walked home 
alone and realized how dark and 
cold it was. I saw another friend 
and we talked, but I was too numb 
to tell him what had happened 
during the day. I told him that my 
family and friends were okay and 
that I had cried enough for one 
day. I got home and stumbled into 
bed, falling asleep instantly.11:45 pm  Since I was unable 
to go to sleep, I decided that I needed 
to see for myself what had happened. 
I went downstairs and watched TV 
for the first time that day. The news 
broadcast on the radio had told me 
over a hundred times that planes had 
flown into the Twin Towers. Later on, 
the towers had collapsed onto them
selves... I was even glad that there 
was time for evacuation as the towers 
. held together for an hour before the 
collapse. None of that prepared me 
for what I finally saw. It didnt look 
real. I froze again as it occurred to me 
that what I saw in front of me was not 
some animation or computer graph
ics. Real people were trying to jump 
off the buildings. I screamed and 
sobbed as I saw the towers rapidly 
collapse. A picture was shown of the 
fire into the night with a comparison 
to the skyline of New York City the 
night before. Mentally, I asked, 
Where are the towers? They are not 
there; what do you mean they are not 
there? The news captions showed 
that hundreds of firefighters and 
policemen were missing. They had
lost their lives on duty. They crum
bled into the dust and ashes with the 
building as they attempted to escort 
the occupants into safety. The cap
tions continued to show hotline num
bers for medical volunteers. I was 
angry that I couldnt be where I was 
needed the most with my paramedic 
training. I had never felt more help
less than I had at that instant. I cried 
harder as I heard about Somerset 
County where the brave passengers 
decided to give up their lives in the 
plane crash in a rural area to prevent 
more serious damage.
I continued watching the news 
coverage and sent out an email to 
all my friends thanking them for 
being there for me on that day, 
wishing them well. I submitted my 
name and certification informa
tion to CMU EMS as an emergency 
personnel volunteer. Around 4 am,
to me one after another. This time, 
I didnt cry. My eyes were already 
swollen and no tears would form. I 
put on the Mozarts Requiem and 
silently wished that everyone 
could all get some rest, dead or 
alive.
When I went to work on 
Wednesday, I bumped into another 
friend from Stuyvesant. We 
hugged and felt relieved that 
everyone we knew was okay. He 
told me that he had seen Stuy 
teachers and students running out 
of the school during the news cov
erage of the previous day. We 
shared our sadness and support, 
and went in different directions as 
our day began. I was glad to have 
something to focus on at work. It 
was time to go to class and I 
numbly attended each lecture, 
copied notes from the board, and
I still cannot grasp the reality that 
the next time I go home, I will not be 
greeted by the Twin Towers. 
I tried going to sleep and failed. So, 
I took down my copy of Indicator 
1997, my high school yearbook, 
the book on which I had worked 
countless numbers of hours. I 
smiled at the happy faces and pic
tures of various places in the 
school as I flipped through the 
pages. After all, we spent more 
time in the school than we did at 
home in our four years in Stuy. I 
counted the number of references 
to the World Trade Center in the 
feature stories my fellow class
mates had written. I knew I 
shouldnt do it but I couldn't help 
but seek out this two-page photo of 
a helicopter shot of my high school 
area. I just stared into the photo. 
My 10-story high school building 
took up a lower right corner, about 
an inch high in this photo. The 
twin towers stood side by side 
stretching vertically, covering the 
right side. As hard as I tried, I 
couldnt take the buildings away 
from this picture. I couldnt imag
ine looking at my high school with
out them. Snapshots from my 
memory of walking from the sub
way station towards the school, 
visiting Borders for new books, 
shopping in the mall, meeting 
friends and every other time I had 
used the towers as my guide came
continued my normal routine. I 
didnt remember a single word 
from class. I was walking towards 
the UC to attend the community 
meetingwhen it dawned on me 
that Stuy is built right by the 
Hudson River. This means in order 
for the teachers and students to 
escape, they had to run TOWARD 
the World Trade Center area. I 
imagined how impossible it would 
be for these teenagers to ever go 
back to school. They had to run 
away from their second home in 
the direction of grave danger in 
order to reach safety. Their memo
ry of high school years would 
always be scarred. Later on, I 
found out that Stuy had been 
minorly burned and its windows 
shattered. It is now serving as a 
hospital/clinic for the area. Media 
crews had been shooting right by 
the school.
At the community meeting I was 
the first to share, a portion of what I 
have written here with the audi
ence. Many others shared their per
spectives, ideas and feelings. I broke 
down and cried as I hugged another 
girl from New York City after she 
shared her story. I perked up for the 
first time as an APhiO brother spoke 
and announced the plans for a 
fundraising project on campus for
the American Red Cross. I immedi
ately knew that this was what I 
could do to help. I attended the fel
lowship gathering of my fraternity 
in the evening to discuss the 
fundraising project. I finally began 
to feel better as ideas and plans for 
coordination came together. I felt 
safe to be there and hopeful because 
I would be able to do something to 
help those who are in need. 
Suddenly, a brother rushed down 
and said, They found a bomb pack
age in the Empire State Building. 
We turned on the TV and tears start
ed to well in my eyes again, I could
nt bear to hear that more terrible 
things were happening at home. I 
tried calling home and heard Due 
to emergency, all circuits are busy; 
please try your call later. My broth
ers hugged me as we waited and 
were finally relieved with the news 
that the building was clear.
When my call finally connected I 
spoke to my brother for the first 
time. Mel told me that everything 
at home was okay. Everyone had 
stayed home all day. It broke my 
heart when he repeatedly said that 
he just wanted to go to school. His 
school had been closed, just like 
everything south of 14th Street. I 
was angry that while I couldnt 
concentrate on academic work, 
even the school routine of normal
cy had been taken away from him.
It has been three days since the sad 
tragedy. I still cannot grasp the reali
ty that the next time I go home, I will 
not be greeted by the Twin Towers. I 
am unable to believe that the area I 
walked by every day for four years of 
my life has been transformed into a 
pile of debris and ashes. As much as 
life goes on and my attempt to regain 
my normal routine continues, a part 
of me is still missing. I have not yet 
been able to really feel the pain. 
Many have sent encouragement and 
have told me to be strong. I under
stand that it is easier for people to 
continue on without witnessing or 
handling intense emotions. But 
whether I like it or not, every time I 
wake up, I sincerely wish that some
one would tell me that it wasnt real, 
it was all a terrible nightmare.
I have spent the past few days 
working in the donation collection 
project for the NY chapter of 
American Red Cross. I am grateful 
that my fraternity has allowed me to 
be part of something that makes me 
feel useful. I wish others who feel 
the same way I do would do the
same. Thankfully, unlike the senti
ments shared by many in Congress, 
CMU remains a peaceful and sup
portive community. It is very dis
turbing to me to hear the pro-war 
rhetoric in our government and 
international agencies. How could it 
possibly make anything better to kill 
more innocent people? This is very 
disheartening to me and others who 
have dedicated so much time to 
humanitarian services. It makes me 
feel better that many student orga
nizations and departments have 
coordinated their efforts in provid
ing support for each other and those 
in need. I have appreciated all the 
efforts made by the campus commu
nity, especially the Office of Student 
Affairs, at this very difficult time. I 
would like to thank everyone for 
being understanding and patient 
with me during the past few days as 
they listened to various parts of this 
story. I am still not able to tell every 
detail of it in person, not even to 
myself. The continuous encourage
ment of many people have prompt
ed me to write this as a source of 
strength to those who have similar 
feelings, to do what they could to 
help others and feel better.
If you have shared any similar 
emotions I have described here, 
please kindly share it with your 
family, friends and others. I 
would also ask you to please 
spend time to talk to the next 
stranger you meet and find out as 
much as you can about each 
other. As different as we may all 
appear in comparison, we all 
share compassion for humanity. 
At times it is very difficult to 
embrace our differences, but run
ning away from reaching mutual 
understanding would only dimin
ish our compassion. Come togeth
er and never give up the hope for 
goodness in people, anywhere in 
this world. Thank you for read
ing. I wish you all peace and 
courage in this difficult time.
Michelle would like to extend 
her invitation to anyone wishing 
to participate in relief efforts with 
Alpha Phi Omega or other student 
organizations to join her. In addi
tion, she would like to encourage 
all campus members to create a forum 
to enhance understanding in humani
ty. Please email mich@cmu.edu or 
aphio@andrew.cmu.edu for more 
information.
IBIERE POUUERIHG THE EVOLUTION IN E-BUSINESS.
BERMAN CHIROPRACTIC OFFICE
128 N. Craig Street
(Park Plaza Bldg. between CMU and PITT)
HEADACHES, STRESS, NECK PAIN, BACK PAIN,
OR JUST WANT BETTER HEALTH??
lii i
Berman Chiropractic has been serving the CMU and PITT communities 
for the past 17years.
Please Call For an Appointment... Today11 
687-1112
PROVIDERS FOR AON SELECT, BC/BS, HEALTH AMERICA, UPMC 
SPECIAL STUDENT RATES
PAVING THE WAY FOR YOU.
Please call 1-800-GIVE LIFE
to schedule yaur itesavtng appointment to &ve bleed.
American Red Cross
Tcmtfm we can save o life
THE BEST-RUN E-BUSINESSES RUN SAP
IFOF______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________EITLab
Jnfo Session Technical Opportunities Conference
Porter Hall Room 226B University Center
Monday, September 24th Tuesday, September 25th
7:00 pm - 9:00 pm 10:00 am - 4:00 pm
As you take that important step in securing your first job, ask yourself if the company you're considering can change with the times. At 
SAP Labs, we produce integrative and innovative software solutions to ensure that the best e-businesses stay one step ahead. In today's 
economy, that's not only important, it's essential. Secure yourself a front row seat, and watch e-business evolve first hand. Better yet, 
help make it happen.
In addition to providing e-businesses with the best software available, we provide some of the greatest employee benefits in the field. For 
more information and the latest buzz about SAP, go to: www.saplabs.com or stop by and visit us on-campus September 24th and 25th.

---------------------------------------------------

GO 'ifcGVtrRl
.1 UPMCSportsWorks^Anye^if cncMfc rckiTCDa CARNEGIE SCIENCE CENTER
The largest Sport; & Science Exhibition on the planet!
Scale a climbing wall ? Bounce on a bungee trampoline  Create your own roller coaster 
simulator ride  Ride a high wire bike  Explore over 40 exciting interactive exhibits
c
One of the four 
Carnegie Museums 
of Pittsburgh
Grt/Po Cct-crd .5_rJ_E
Front row, back stoge, live at ALL ACCESS! See your 
favorite bands on the 40-foot-high screen!
n _ , r J[ Wro_E LrtJroR T5Pe
10,000 watfs of light
and sound that will blow you away!
Experience it all
Friday & Saturday 
Nights!
ShainMcnGrcnctnSncc/naPoaM
412.237.3400
UPMC SportsWorks ot Carnegie Science Center is made possible through the generous support of UPMC Health System.
THE TARTAN  SEPTEMBER 17, 2001
TIAA-CREF Individuai and Institutional Services, Inc.. and Teachers Persona! Investor Services, Inc., distribute-securities products. 
p 200J Teachers Insurance and Annu*ty Association College Retirement Equities Fund (TIAA-CREF).-New York. NY. 08/20
Kissin and Jansons showcase piano 
and Brahms in new, youthful light
SYMPHONY, from page B2 
demand change. Apathy only fos
ters that which is bad. Only a con
certed realization and effort of 
Americans and all world citizens 
will reverse the regression of the 
world society.
Evgeny Kissin made his 
Pittsburgh debut after intermis
sion, ready to tackle the Brahms 
Piano Concerto in B-flat Major. 
Johannes Brahms wrote this, his 
second piano concerto, over the 
period of about three years. It pre
miered on November 9, 1881, with 
Brahms himself as the soloist. 
Evgeny Kissin, a 29-year-old 
Russian, was truly astounding. The 
ease of his pianistic execution was 
something Ive never seen before. 
This Brahms concerto, one of the 
longest and most difficult pieces in 
the piano repetoire, is most defi
nitely a massive work. Mr. Kissins 
dexterity was tested on Friday 
night, and he succeeded wonder
fully. Simply put, this piece was
easy for him. Although he played it 
slightly out of the typical 
Brahmsian character that were 
used to, it was still marvelous. I 
was impressed by his aggressivness 
with it, while still maintaing a 
youthful charm.
The first movement was simply 
breathtaking. His playing exudes 
bounds of spirit and confidence, a 
combination that isnt often found 
in a modern performer. It was 
obvious that he felt completely at 
home at the keyboard. His bold 
statement of the opening theme 
was very intense, but proved a 
good match for our wonderful sym
phony orchestra. The interaction 
between the orchestra and soloist 
proved to be flawless as well. 
Never have I seen such mutual 
understanding of the same piece. 
Mr. Kissin and Maestro Jansons 
were breathing together, knowing 
exactly what would come next. 
The development in the first move
ment was quite exciting. Mr. Kissin
went from gracefully aggressive to 
decisively forceful. He explored 
the palatte of pianistic emotion in 
this first movement and in magnifi
cent form.
The allegro appassionato sec
ond movement was fiery and 
intense. Kissin exploded with the 
main theme from the inital down
beat and never let up. This scherzo-esque movement is by far the 
most emotional of the piece. At 
once, it is tempting and brutally 
powerful. Brahms was perhaps 
thinking of Clara Shumann, as 
usual. His infatuation with Robert 
Shumanns wife is general knowl
edge, and he is said to have her 
image in most of his works. This 
might be true for the third move
ment, which is as graceful as the 
second is powerful. The opening 
theme is given to the cello, and 
then expanded upon by the winds, 
and finally the violins. Mr. Kissins 
turn at this third theme proved to 
be in character with the rest of the
piece. He played with such youth
ful grace, which was well matched 
by Ann Martindale-Williams cello. 
The mini-duet that the two musi
cians shared in this movement was 
a perfect segue to the final move
ment, a playful allegro. This light 
and short movement is the perfect 
ending to a unusually dense piece. 
The movement, marked by much 
stacatto, seemed to please Mr. 
Kissin. It seemed best suited to his 
style. Hearing this reminded me 
of a bunch of boys playing football 
on a fall day: playfully having a 
grand time and not caring about 
the world around them. Of course 
he played brilliantly until the final 
cadence shared by him and the 
orchestra. This fifty-minute piece 
seemed like two minutes, it was 
brilliantly played by a true piano 
virtuoso.
For more information on the 
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra, 
see http://www.pittsburghsymphony.org/index.html.
Carnegie Almanac
2 MILLION INVESTORS. 
80 YEARS EXPERIENCE
1 WEIRD NAME.
RETIREMENTINSURANCE MUTUAL FUNDS
Managing money for people
with other things to think about**
COLLEGE SAVINGS ! TRUSTS ! INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT
5 years ago, September 16, 1996  With the completion of the 
University Center, the CMU Athletics Department had four facilities at 
its disposal  Skibo Gymnasium, the UC, Gesling Stadium, and tfte 
tennis courts. They were making plans for renovating Skiijo 
Gymnasium and also the UC. Many students, faculty, and staff hujid 
complained that they were uncomfortable with the glass windowsJn 
the aerobics room. To address this concern, large potted plants, ferijs, 
and lattice works were ordered to be placed in front of the room. ;;
Tori Amos played for a sold-out crowd at the A.J. Palumbo Center 
and Linda Flowers becomes the head of the Community Outreach * 
program, the biggest outlet for community service offered to students 
on campus.
One year ago, September 11, 2000  The University officially 
opened the new Baker Hall wing addition. The four floor addition houses 
lecture halls, faculty offices, psychology labs, the Academic AdvisingCenter, and the Deans Office for the college. One of the features of the 
new wing was the 150-seat auditorium sponsored by Giant Eagle, which 
donated $400,000 to the project.
Rusted Root performed on Friday night in a tent on the Mall. When 
interviewed, Jim Donovan, the bands drummer, said that the weirdest 
question hed ever been asked in an interview is, Where did you get the 
name Rusted Root from? He said that he makes up a different answer ; 
every time he is asked.
Compiled by 
Sara Stille ,
TIAA-CREF has a long history of managing portfolios for the worlds sharpest minds. 
Contact us for ideas, strategies, and, at the very least, proper pronunciation.
TiAA-CREF.org or call 1.800.842.2776
50 years ago, September 25, 1951  In preparation for the first 
football game of the year, a pep rally was scheduled to be held in the Tech 
Bowl. The Kiltie Bagpipers, the cheerleaders, and the DU band led the 
parade to the rally. All first-year students were required to attend the rally 
and all upperclassmen were encouraged to be present.
Besides attending the rally, the sophomore class was strictly enforc
ing freshmen regulations. All first-year students were required to 
wear dinks, a traditional CMU first-year hat, whenever they were not in 
their rooms, except on Friday and Saturday night, Sunday, and in 
town. They were also required to attend all pep rallies and home 
games. They also had to take a Traditions Exam and receive a passing 
grade of 70 percent in order to participate in any extracurricular activ
ities. Those who did not pass the exam had their names published in 
The Tartan and sent to all activities.
George Camp was named the Glee Club director. Camp was the instru
mental director of the Wilkinsburg public school system and also the choir 
director of the Trinity Lutheran Church in Mt. Oliver. He graduated with 
a music education degree from Bethany College and did his graduate 
work at Carnegie Tech. Over 100 students from all classes and depart
ments were present at the first Glee Club meeting.
25 years ago, September 21, 1976  Professor Delbert 
Highlands stepped down as head of the Architecture Department at 
the request of Fine Arts Dean Akram Midani. The resignation came 
after a long history of animosity between the two men. Highlands 
submitted a 13-page document detailing the specific events that lead
up to his resignation and also included information about some of the 
major administrative problems he had since January 1974. One of the 
major issues was that Highlands claimed that for all intents and pur
poses, I have been fired from my position as head of the Department 
of Architecture.
Peter Yacoe was elected to the post of Student Body President at the end 
of the previous semester. The first action Yacoe planned was to initiate an 
investigation into the proposed $300 tuition increase that CMU President 
Richard Cyert had announced. He said that he wanted to make sure the 
increase was justified.
10 years ago, September 16, 1991  Six counts of negligence 
were brought before Student Senate against The Thistle yearbook, in a dis
closure by Thistle business manager Ross Comer. Among the allegations 
were that the 1990 yearbook was yet to be completed and the 1991 year
book was tardy and incomplete. The Thistle claimed that this was partly 
because of the theft of their external hard drive, a tape drive for backups, 
and tapes.
The Carnegie Mellon Robotics Institute showed off its six-legged, 12- 
foot-tall autonomous robot to the public by taking it for a walk. The 
AMBLER, an acronym for Autonomous Mobile Exploration Robot, was a 
prototype capable of traversing a hazardous terrain while collecting and 
analyzing samples of a plants geophysical, meteorological, and biologi
cal conditions.
Scotch n Soda celebrated their 85th year by performing a musical 
revue featuring songs from productions of the last 50 years.
Courtesy of the Pittsburgh Symphony I
Evgeny Kissin performed with the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra this 
weekend to open their 2001-2002 season.

---------------------------------------------------

Global careers in investment banking
UBS Warburg is a business group of UBS AG. In the U.S., securities underwriting, trading and 
brokerage activities and M&A advisory activities are conducted by UBS Warburg LLC, a wholly 
owned subsidiary of UBS AG that is a registered broker-dealer and a member of the New York 
Stock Exchange and other principal exchanges and SIPC. In the U.K., these services are 
provided by UBS Warburg Ltd., a wholly owned subsidiary of UBS AG that is regulated in the 
U.K. by the SFA, to persons who are not private customers in the U.K.

---------------------------------------------------

Science vTechnolopy
17 September 2001THE TARTANPage B6
World Trade Center structure saved thousands of Internet proves strong
lives despite eventual defeat to heat from fuel fire forum for support
by Pratik Agarwal
Junior Staffwriter
Tuesdays attack on the World Trade Center 
Towers (WTC) in lower Manhattan, New York 
proved fatal for the towers, both of them col
lapsing within hours. There has been a great 
deal of introspection on the structure of the tow
ers itself, and what exactly could have caused 
the collapse once the hijacked airlines had 
struck.
The WTCs towers were as much symbols of 
mans engineering mastery as of international 
trade and capital markets, remarked a BBC cor
respondent. However, disaster struck early on 
Tuesday, when two hijacked airliners crashed 
into them, reducing these monumental struc
tures to merely a pile of rubble.
The disaster caused the deaths of thousands, 
but in reality the engineering ingenuity of the 
towers helped save the lives of many more. The 
towers managed to stand tall for an hour despite 
the airplane collisions, allowing many office 
workers to exit safely. The vertical steel and con
crete cores at the heart of the buildings were the 
reason for this.
So the question arises: why did the towers 
eventually collapse? The answer is simple. It was 
the tremendous heat generated by the explo
sion, followed by the perpetual burning of avia
tion fuel. Structural engineer Chris Wise felt 
that it was the fire that killed the towers, and 
that nothing could have survived those temper
atures with that amount of fuel burning. The 
melting point of steel is around 800 degrees F, 
and experts suspect that the incident could have 
witnessed much higher temperatures. The sup
ports between the interior and the exterior 
columns gave way to this intense heat and melt
ed, destroying the strength of the towers.
Irving J. Oppenheimer, a Professor in the 
Department of Civil and Environmental 
Engineering at Carnegie Mellon University, and 
also an expert in the field of forensic engineer
ing, said that the direct impact of the aircraft 
had removed large portions of the structural 
framing, and also that the remaining structure 
w&s subject to the fire caused by the jet fuel.
The strength of structural steel decreases with 
increasing temperature. At 1000 degrees F the 
strength of the most common structural steel is 
reduced to 75 or 80 percent of its original 
strength at ambient temperature, and at 1200 
degrees F the strength is reduced to perhaps 30 
percent of its original strength. He said that the 
immediate trigger of the collapse was the 
increase in temperature created by the fire. The 
temperature would increase with time, and 
therefore the passage of about 45 minutes 
between the impact and the collapse suggests 
that steel temperatures increased during that 
time period until they reached the level at which 
the collapse occurred.
Oppenheimer echoed the viewpoints of other 
engineers around the country in saying that no 
engineers could anticipate such extreme condi
tions. Building codes govern the design of office 
buildings, and they reflect a scientific under
standing of the conditions for which the public 
should be protected. Those codes anticipate the 
danger of conventional fires and require insula
tion or other protection of structural members to 
assure that some minimum amount of time 
(hours) would pass before a collapse danger 
would develop. However, the intensity of the 
fire in this instance, together with the loss of 
integrity of the fire protection mechanisms such 
as insulation, was far beyond any envisioned in
ager, Hyman Brown, the buildings would have 
survived a plane crash had there been no fire. 
From this point on, collapse became inevitable 
and each new falling floor built up a tremen
dous pressure - more than 100,000 tons. In a 
kind of pancake effect, the weight of the upper 
portions of the towers drove the rest of the
amidst national crisis
Collapse of the World Trade Center Towers
Two hijacked Boeing 767's hit the World Trade 
Center, damaging the upper floors of both towers.
Not only did the collisions cause a large 
amount of structural damage, but the fire 
from the jet fuel burning was intense and 
eventually proved too much 
for the twin towers.
South Tower
Steel trusses
Exterior columns
The intense heat from the jet fuel burning 
caused the steel trusses linking the 
exterior columns to the interior columns 
to melt and the concrete to crumble.
regular operations of a building.
The outside of the towers consisted of closely 
spaced steel columns forming a giant steel 
tube. These columns were less than a meter 
apart in the upper stories and enabled the tow
ers to withstand the entire load placed on the 
building by high winds, and, in this case, the 
force of the crash. Traditional skyscrapers have 
columns more than six meters apart. The WTC 
had closely spaced columns and deep girders on 
the perimeter. Most structural types would be 
threatened with immediate collapse if subjected 
to the amount of direct damage incurred here, 
but a tube has some inherent capability of main
taining its function even with holes cut into it. 
Oppenheimer felt that this phenomenon played 
a major role in this event.
According to the buildings construction manSerena Lam/Online Design Editor
building into the ground.
Despite this, it was lucky that the buildings 
fell vertically down and not sideways, as a slight 
shift in weight distribution on one side could 
have caused it to topple sideways onto other 
buildings causing more damage. In its destruc
tion, the WTC exemplified its structural bril
liance, and there was almost irony in its eventu
al collapse.
The towers were built to withstand 200 mileper-hour hurricanes, storms, and even survived 
a bombing in 1993. Another of the buildings in 
the area, World Trade Center Building 7, also 
collapsed later in the day, and officials in the city 
were fearful of more collapses. The entire lower 
Manhattan area was evacuated. Rudolph 
Giuliani, mayor of New York, promised to 
rebuild and restore normalcy in the area.
NEW YORK (AP) - The Internet 
proved its value as a virtual balm 
for a global crisis Wednesday as 
friends, families, and even 
strangers collected online for 
soul-searching and emotional 
support.
Internet discourse revolved 
Wednesday around trying to fath
om, cope, and communicate. Web 
sites and discussion groups urged 
blood donation, posted prayers, 
and debated whether civil liber
ties may be curtailed.
The Internet has proven to be a 
remarkably good way to form 
relationships and communities, 
said Steve Jones, a professor of 
communications at the University 
of Illinois-Chicago. We go online 
to try to make sense of what hap
pened, who to blame, whos in 
charge, et cetera.
Initially, Internet users went 
online to find out what had hap
pened. Later, they used e-mail 
and other tools to find out about 
how friends and family were 
doing. The third phase - finding 
meaning - followed shortly.
Jones said that while television 
was good for basic information 
and analysis, we go to the 
Internet for personal stories.
Discussions were held every
where. In a newsgroup on DVDs, 
one participant suggested 
rebuilding the World Trade 
Center as a symbol of Americas 
resolve. One poster on a Beatles 
newsgroup predicted a stronger 
America growing out of the crisis.
One email list that normally dis
cusses computers and technology 
focused on nothing but the 
attacks. One message warned that 
curtailing freedom in the name of 
safety would punish the American 
people, not the attackers.
The Web site for the QVC shop
ping service devoted its home 
page to resources on blood dona
tion. Travel site OneTravel.com 
offered to donate 10 percent of 
earnings to New York firefighters.
Online clothing retailer 
Bluefly.com sent online notices 
offering displaced companies the 
use of vacant office space. Ken 
Seiff, the companys chief execu
tive, received several responses 
within hours.
The American Psychological 
Association posted tips on manag
ing traumatic stress, while the 
American Academy of Pediatrics 
had advice on counseling chil
dren.
At an online prayer forum, indi
viduals posted personal prayers 
for victims and emergency work
ers.
Television can say, Were 
going to have a prayer meeting at 
7 tonight in the park, but the 
Internet can actually hold that 
prayer meeting, said David 
Hollander, a Web designer in 
Boise, Idaho who runs a prayer 
forum for 54 people.
Some news Web sites were 
overloaded Tuesday, sending frus
trated users to television. But as 
capacity improved, the Web'' 
offered details and recaps in a 
way that televisions and newspa
pers could not.
Abroad, the Internet proved 
valuable for keeping in touch with' 
loved ones in the United States. 
Paul Murphy, an Atlanta busi
nessman who has lived in London'  
for the past 18 months, kept in 
touch with friends and family via 
email to hear firsthand about the 
mood back home.
In Paris, Odile Sheehan learned 
of the attacks when a French 
friend sent her an email with a 
terse message: The United States 
is up in flames.
Her phone calls didnt go 
through, so she logged on. By 
this morning, all my friends in 
New York wrote to say they were 
alive, Sheehan said. Everything 
went through the Internet.
Like any community, the | 
Internet had its rough edges, too.
Some hackers were calling for . 
cyber-attacks on Arab networks, 
while racial slurs against Arabs 
flew across one America Online 
chat room.
The chief executive of ; 
CoffeeCup Software, Nicholas , 
Longo, sent an email calling for ; 
the complete destruction and 
annihilation of any country 
found responsible.
He later said he received plenty 
of hate mail and also acknowl- ; 
edged that annihilation may ' 
have been too strong.
Meanwhile, editors of Internet" 
ScamBusters warned of spantrf1 
email messages purportedly seek^;; 
ing donations to the Red Cross,^ 
but directing users instead to sites^ 
run by the spammers.
Many of these spammers arere
trying to steal money and credit ~ 
card numbers, the editors-' 
warned.
Most news sites were flooded - 
with hits early Tuesday morning, ;; 
as news came in of the attacks in y 
New York and Washington.
CMU research outfit calls multitasking under stress an onerous decision
by Arthur Goh
Junior Staffwriter
Youre cruising down Fifth Avenue, yakking away on the handset to 
your best friend about your prom disaster last year. Subsequently, the con
versation ends, and the road ahead comes into sharp focus. You frown, 
look around, and find out that youve missed your turnoff a good 10 min
utes ago.
It has been scientifically proven that talking on a cell phone is a distrac
tion to driving. Not that its the rummaging and dialing on the phone that 
disturbs your concentration at the wheel, but rather, its the talking itself 
that affects the driving activity, says a research team from Carnegie 
Mellons Center for Cognitive Brain Imaging.
People talking on the phone tend to space out a bit more than people 
talking in person, maybe because the other person is not there, says Chris 
Tremonte, a computer science senior, adding further salt to the cell phone 
issue.
The research states that there is a cost of executing concurrent tasks. 
This cost is the loss of brain resources allocated to each task. The team, led 
by a Professor in the Department of Psychology, Marcel Just, discovered 
conclusive evidence that attending to a conversation will disturb complex 
visual information processing.
This has direct implications for cell phone use during driving because 
it answers one of the classic questions about human thinking, Just said. 
Weve demonstrated that the human brain has a limited ability to per
form two cognitive tasks concurrently under demanding circumstances, 
such as simultaneously conversing and driving.
Techniques used in the experimentation included use of functional 
magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to scan the brain of subjects. 
Scientists read sentences to 18 people while they were performing com
plex visual tasks; subjects listened to sentences every three seconds while 
simultaneously comparing the structures of two complex 3D objects. 
Results show that listening to someone speak consumes a portion of the 
resources that would otherwise be allocated to the task of processing com
plex visual information.
Now, you ask, how can that be? One system in the brain, the languageprocessing network, can affect the availability of resources in other sys
tems, which in this case appears to be the complex visual information-pro
cessing network. This experiment has proven that, although these two sys
tems may be located at tissues that are anatomically separate, capacity to 
perform one of these tasks while concurrently performing the other drops 
by 30-50 percent, because these systems run off a mutual resource pool.
I The brain can only multi-task to a certain extent.
Practice can.further automate one or both tasks, Just commented, but
there is always a limit. When a task is automated, fewer resources will be 
tapped to process it, like listening to instrumental music instead of lyrical 
songs while reading a book.
Understanding spoken language is about the most automated cognitive 
task that exists, and driving can become fairly automated as well. But 
before driving is automated, in a novice driver, conversation can be 
extremely distracting, Just said.
The fundamental implication is that engaging in a demanding conver
sation could jeopardize judgment and reaction time if an atypical or 
unusual driving situation arose, Just said. He added that, although hand
sets are a great relief in the car, it would not help much in that situation.
Use of cell phones doesnt just distract the eyes, he said. The conver
sation itself also distracts the brain. Making the cell phone hands-free will 
not help eliminate the brain distraction.
Issues have arisen about banning cell phones and even handsets in vehi
cles. Several countries in Europe and Asia have already taken steps to 
make the use of cellphones while driving illegal, and several groups now 
look to the United States to enforce a similar regulation This research is 
independent of cell phone radiation and motor coordination that may play 
a role in inducing an accident.
Handsets wont help eliminate the brain distraction (for which wed 
have to outlaw talking and thinking in the car), but it does enable you to 
keep both hands on the wheel, says Heather Krogh, a senior in the 
Modern Languages Department.
Both speech and driving suffers with cellphone use. Results show that 
language comprehension is reduced by 53 percent while concurrently pro
cessing complex visual information. The worst possible situation would be 
having a difficult conversation during demanding traffic (not traffic con
gestion). Reflect for a moment upon this situation: you are traveling on 
the highway at 65 miles an hour, with just a half a car length separating 
the cars on your head and tail. Your professor calls you up, asking you to 
computate the instantaneous velocity at time t of a projectile launched at 
some angle to hit a target x meters away at a velocity v. Perhaps your pro
fessor would not care to harass you as such, but a similar case would cer
tainly affect your driving.
I find thats true, especially if you are talking about something that is 
heavy, like a clash with your girlfriend. Hey man, no one could keep his 
mind straight at that time, says Usamah Jamaludin, a first-year in com
puter science.
The research is part of a project to develop imaging methods to measure 
brain workload in information-driven technology environments. The Air 
Force Office of Scientific Research funded the research. There is more 
research looking into this in the near future, such as a driving simulator 
where subjects are scanned while navigating through virtual highways, 
again being concurrently fed with sentences at certain periods.
WaHcing and Chewing Gum? A Bad Idea
Scientists tested tie brain's ability to do two things 
at once by mapping its activity as a task was per
formed alone and then with another task.
When people try to do two tasks, scans 
show that tie amount , ^
of brain activity
devoted to each task impomixbm 
decreases. (AbitjMo processlanguage
TASK; LANGUAGE 
CG&IPREHENStQfci
Subjects listened 10 
complex sentences 
and had to Indicate 
if the sentences 
were true or
REGIONS OF INTEREST ;
1,086 * lability lo - r<stric*> thn&>< : difwnsformi :
{Regionftemporal
TASKl OBJECT ROTATION 
Subjects were shown 
pairs of three-dimen
sional figures and 
asked to relate 
ibem mentally Iq 
pudge if they 
were the same,
of ircierest 
partetai sobe> ...""""
{Sfato ret&e
Sctunse; Of iWsretfi JAHfcrt ttvmty
Other members of the research team are Professor of Psychology ; 
Patricia Carpenter, co-director of the Center for Cognitive Brain Imaging;; 
post-doctoral research associate Timothy Keller, research assistants Lisa 
Emery and Holly Zajac, and Keith R. Thulborn, professor of radiology at 
the University of Chicago Medical Center.

---------------------------------------------------

First workshop on Interdisciplinary Helicopter project may have role in
Nanotechnology to be held this week future NTSB crash investigations
by Sriram Vaidhyanathan
Science & Technology Editor
The First Carnegie Mellon 
Workshop on Interdisciplinary 
Nanotechnology is scheduled to be 
held this Thursday and Friday at 
the Roberts Engineering Hall. The 
event is being sponsored by the 
Center for Interdisciplinary 
Nanotechnology Research (CINR).
The fields of information pro
cessing, data storage, power gener
ation, medicine and robotics, 
among others, promise to be revo
lutionized by recent developments 
in technology that promises inte
gration at the scale of 1-100 
nanometers, several hundred times 
smaller than existing technology in 
many areas. The workshop is to fea
ture such advances in research that 
influence fields like these.
Co-organizing the event are Seth 
Goldstein, an Associate Professor 
from the School of Computer 
Science and Bill Messner, a profes
sor from the Department of 
Mechanical Engineering. Carnegie 
Mellon University, in the form of its 
various departments, is already an 
active member in the field of nan
otechnology and such an eVent is 
hoped to increase the eminence of 
Pittsburgh as a national leader in 
the field.
Topics to be discussed actively 
during the workshop include
Computation and electronics, 
Magnetics and data storage, 
Nanotechnology building blocks, 
sensors and biomedical applicater is one billionth of a meter (3-4 
atoms wide). Utilizing the wellunderstood chemical properties of 
atoms and molecules (how they
Ts'Asd 2-d P p A s d * P c T P  C P p M d .NANOTECHNOLOGY RESEARCH
tions.
Sam Venneri, Chief Technologist 
Associate Administrator for 
Aerospace Technology at NASA, 
and also Paul Weiss, founding 
Director of the Center for 
Molecular Nanofabrication and 
Devices at Penn State University, 
are expected to deliver the keynote 
presentations at the workshop.
Departments as diverse as 
Biological Sciences, Computer 
Science, Chemical Engineering, 
Chemistry and Physics are being 
represented at the workshop, not to 
mention The Robotics Institute, the 
Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center, 
and the Institute for Complex and 
Engineered Systems (ICES).
Nanotechnology is molecular 
manufacturing or, more simply, 
building things one atom or mole
cule at a time with programmed 
nanoscopic robot arms. A nanome
stick together), nanotechnology 
proposes the construction of novel 
molecular devices possessing extra
ordinary properties. The trick is to 
manipulate atoms individually and 
place them exactly where needed 
to produce the desired structure.
By treating atoms as discrete, bit
like objects, molecular manufactur
ing will bring a digital revolution to 
the production of material objects. 
Working at the resolution limit of 
matter, it will enable the ultimate 
in miniaturization and perfor
mance. Research programs in 
chemistry, molecular biology, and 
scanning probe microscopy are lay
ing the foundations for a technolo
gy of molecular machine systems.
CMU students are welcome to 
attend the event, but prior registra
tion is required.
Love Music but Hate Laundry?
DigttalMC Music Recommendation Software can help with both. 
We will recommend new music that you will like AND give you 
a free T-shirt for testing our software. 
Want to know more? 
Visit http://www.digitalmc.net/teslhtml 
by September 20th for more information.
 C- II f
H-/-Jr yum
We got YOUR beat
HELICOPTER, from page A1
calls from local politicians. On Wednesday, philan
thropist and Republican National Committee mem
ber Elsie Hillman recalled that at last years 
Republican National Convention in Philadelphia, the 
Pennsylvania delegation brought one of CMUs 
robots along to interact with the crowd. She asked 
her office to telephone Allegheny County executive 
Jim Roddey. Within a few hours, Amidi and his 
research team were in Somerset County.
In the wake of this terrible tragedy, we as a com
munity must find a way to join together and apply 
our resources, said Roddey.
It may be interesting to note that in World War II, 
Pittsburgh supplied the steel that built the ships and 
tanks, he said, calling CMUs robotic research a dif
ferent kind of resource that Pittsburgh can provide 
the nation.
In addition to asking the Robotics Institute for pos
sible assistance, Provost Mark Kamlet contacted the 
Software Engineering Institute (SEI) to query if they 
might be able to offer their services to the govern
ment and communities stricken by Tuesdays terror
ist attacks. Kamlet said that SEI had already under
taken efforts to monitor cyber-security.
The helicopter has the possibility to dramatically 
reduce the data collection period needed for the 
investigation of an airline crash. The helicopter flies 
at an average speed of 20 miles per hour. Since the 
debris field of a plane crash is significantly larger 
than the crater created by the planes impact, the 
debris recovery process is a time-consuming and 
cumbersome process. The largest piece of debris 
recovered at the United crash site measured five feet. 
The helicopters system is capable of identifying par
ticles as small as two inches in diameter.
An apparatus affixed to the bottom of the heli
copter scans the ground below. Amidi described the
laser apparatus as a lighthouse that measures the 
distance from the sky to the ground. Optical sensors 
measure the contour and vegetation of the topogra
phy 12,000 times a second and radios the informa
tion to a computer that plots a color-coordinated, 
three dimensional map of the site. Researchers can 
examine the map from different perspectives and 
angles in real time.
Entirely autonomous, the helicopter works best 
when flown without human interaction. Plastic pipes 
are inserted into the ground to create a flight path 
for the Yamaha helicopter. A state estimator mea
sures vibrations and shifts in the helicopters path 
300 times a second to ensure incomparable precision 
in the data. The helicopter is also equipped with a 
Global Positioning System to assist with its in-flight 
maneuvers.
The Robotics Institute commenced the creation of 
a self-piloting helicopter in 1995 after grants from 
the Department of Defense and National Aeronautics 
and Space Administration (NASA). Dr. Chuck 
Thorpe, Robotics Institute director, called the heli
copters mission an example of the importance of 
federally funded research. He estimated that the 
development and creation of the crash site helicopter 
cost nearly $100,000.
Thorpe hypothesized that the autonomous heli
copter has endless potential. He enumerated search 
and rescue exercises and even prosaic tasks such as 
excavation and gas line surveying as ideal for the 
helicopter. Missions that are dangerous or difficult 
for a person to do, but safe for the helicopter are pos
sible, said Thorpe.
While Amidi feels uncomfortable garnering atten
tion in the wake of a national tragedy, he, Thorpe 
and others are glad to be of assistance. It is great to 
step beyond the terror and fear and do some real 
work, said Thorpe.
NASA
Needs
You
UPMC
LATESN W:ISAD
If you have some time on your hands, we're interested in having 
you participate in our NASA funded research study. NASA 
developed "Appendix-K" a set of rules that governs how and 
when astronauts can safely rearrange their sleep schedules. The 
University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine will help the space 
agency determine the safest method for rearranging astronauts' 
sleep schedules to meet time critical mission demands. We are 
recruiting healthy men and women between the ages of 20 to 59 
who are willing to participate individually or in groups of two to 
four (friends encouraged) for 16 days and nights in our Biological 
Rhythms Laboratory (BRL). We will work around your schedule 
preferences. Upon completion of the study, participants will be 
paid $1600.
If you are interested in participating or know someone else 
that might be interested in this research opportunity, contact 
412-624-3807.
BLUE FROM AMERICAN EXPRESS
AmericanExpress
Mt FTI I Wmm Lhm IBLUEhr ftwarn mmm FOR
STUDENTS

FLY FOR AS LITTLE AS $119 ROUND-TRIP

MANAGE YOUR ACCOUNT SECURELY ONLINE

SAVE ON APPAREL, ENTERTAINMENT, 
TRAVEL. TEXTBOOKS, AND MORE 
a
NO ANNUAL FEE
americanexpress.com/student
If you are a student organization looking for 
a great fund-raising opportunity, please e-mail us at 
amexrecruiting@marketsource.com or call 1-800-888-8108, ext 2285 *
*Terms and conditions apply.

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment
17 September 2001THE TARTANPage B8
WTC attack sends Hollywood back to editing room
by Tina Lin
Junior Staffwriter
When tragedy struck the United States on 
September 11, the country grieved for the loss 
of its citizens. Everywhere in the nation, peo
ple were overwhelmed by this senseless act 
and the lives that it had cost. Entertainment is 
hardly the first thing on anyones minds, 
which is why Hollywood has been scrambling 
to adjust and reschedule any programming 
and upcoming films that might be deemed in 
poor taste in light of Tuesdays events.
The Academy of Television Arts & Sciences, 
out of respect for the victims of this tragedy, 
has postponed the Emmys from September 16 
to October 7 in an unprecedented move. The 
only other time the Emmys were postponed 
was in 1978, when it was delayed half an hour 
due to the live telecast of the Israel-Egypt 
peace signing at Camp David. The Latin 
Grammys, scheduled to take place on the 
evening of September 11, were outright can
celled. NBC and CBS, who had originally 
planned to premiere their shows during the 
week of September 17, have pushed the dates 
back one week.
This year, the most popular theme on televi
sion seems to be the CIA, with three new 
shows on different networks concerning CIA
Greyhound offers more 
than one bargains for?
HOLLYWOOD INSIDER
agents battling terrorism. CBSs The Agency is 
especially in need of adjustments. The pilot 
includes a terrorism plot against a London 
department store and references to Osama bin 
Laden. The pilot has been pulled by the net
work, and will either be retooled or substitut
ed by another episode. All promotions for the 
show have been pulled as well. Similar fate 
befalls Foxs 24, starring Kiefer Sutherland as a 
CIA agent with 24 hours to stop a presidential 
assassination. The pilot of the show contains 
the explosion of a jumbo jet, which might 
upset viewers. Unlike The Agency, it wont be 
so easy to shelve this pilot, as the show is set in 
real time. With each episode representing an 
hour of the day experienced by the characters 
of 24, it would be impossible to substitute 
another episode for the pilot. The show is slat
ed to air in late October, and Fox has not 
reached any formal decision concerning its 
status. Other shows, such as Law & Order: 
Special Victims Unit and Lost are being edited 
to remove images of the World Trade Center. 
Production on the popular NBC series Frasier 
was halted for the entirety of the week when it 
was revealed that its executive producer, 
David Angel, was aboard one of the four 
hijacked planes. Angel had won several 
Emmys for his work on Frasier and Cheers. 
Network presentations of Independence Day, XFiles: Fight the Future, The Rats and The
Peacemaker have all been pulled from the line
up due to scenes involving bombs, explosions, 
or threats upon New York City.
On the big screen, several movies and pro
motions have been delayed and removed. 
Arnold Schwarzeneggers terrorist flick 
Collateral Damage was postponed indefinitely, 
and all promotions have ceased. The 
Spiderman trailers, with images of bank rob
bers caught in a web between the Twin Towers, 
have been temporarily pulled to re-edit the 
scene. Sony Pictures also recalled Spiderman 
posters where the towers were visible. Posters 
for the Robert Redford drama The Last Castle 
were also withdrawn. The posters depicted an 
upside-down American flag, an international 
symbol of distress. Dreamworks feared that 
displaying such an image at this time would 
become too upsetting for the public. The open
ing of three films, Tim Allens Big Trouble, 
Denzel Washingtons Training Day, and 
Edward Burnss Sidewalks of New York, have all 
been delayed. Only the first was detained for 
its content; the other two were kept from the 
theaters because studios havent been able to 
promote the movies due to the continuous 
news coverage. Other movies, such as Men In 
Black 2 and Jackie Chans Nose Bleed will be reedited to remove references to World Trade 
Center and a brawl with terrorists atop of the 
Empire State building, respectively.
Ben Folds debuts alone, 
provides new anthems
TRAVEL
by Kristen Lala
Copy Co-Manager
The white lights approached 
slowly, dim at first but growing 
steadily brighter until I was 
enveloped in their inescapable 
luminosity. I sat transfixed as the 
looming mass drew nearer, a pale 
blue-grey creature suddenly 
appearing amidst the white. The 
majestic object continued forward, 
and with a graceful squeal of its 
tires, proceeded to jump the curb 
and come to rest before the weary 
travelers at gate #15.
Ah, yes. The joys of traveling by 
Greyhound. As the poor mans 
Amtrak, Greyhound bus lines are a 
rite of passage for many students 
during their years here at Carnegie 
Mellon. Indeed, there are three 
other types of people who choose 
Greyhound as the creme de la 
creme of transportation: the ear
less, the cheap, and the amorous 
(or in my case, all of the above). 
Although Im a bit ashamed to 
admit it, I am arguably a 
Greyhound connoisseur of sorts; in 
the past four years, Ive made 25 or 
so voyages spanning anywhere 
from Philadelphia and Pittsburgh, 
PA, to Wilmington, DE, to Durham, 
NC. But whether youve never 
experienced the * magic of a 
Greyhound or you practically live 
on one, I hope youll find this 
Guide to Surviving your 
Greyhound Trip shocking, enter
taining, and maybe even a little 
useful.
On this particular day, I planned 
to take the 11:30 am Greyhound to 
State College, PA, allegedly a fivehour journey by bus which always 
seems to turn into an eight-hour 
escapade. The morning began 
uneventfully enough.
8:15 am: I woke up and got 
ready. I contemplated bringing 
less stuff in my bags and foolishly 
decided to take it all, as originally 
planned. I energetically sprinted 
to campus and arrived just in time 
for my 9:30 class. Tried to remain 
upright and be scholarly.
10:20 am: Class is done 
thank God its Friday! Although 
Tuesdays and Thursdays may be 
lengthy, Ive finally managed to 
schedule Fridays I can live with. 
Gathering up my bookbag, duffle 
bag, and lunch tote, I exited Baker 
Hall. I walked briskly to the 
Morewood bus stop. Success! A 
61C pulled up within minutes. I 
squeezed myself aboard, and 
frowned at people taking the bus 
one block to Craig Street. There 
were no seats available, so I hung 
on for dear life and tried not to 
decapitate anyone with my lug
gage flailing about.
10:46 am: I exited the bus at 
Forbes and Grant. The brisk 
walk from earlier quickly turned 
into huffing and puffing my way 
down the next three blocks or so.
10:52 - 11:10 am: I arrived at 
the pinnacle of speedy transporta
tion and proceeded to wait in line
REVIEW
to buy my ticket  apparently hav
ing more than one person at the 
ticket counter was simply too 
much to ask. For many people, this 
is the greatest source of frustration
 if you dont know the exact 
route you want to take, youd be 
better off hitchhiking, trust me. 
After missing another bus once, I 
spent a good 20 minutes arguing 
with the manager that Indianas 
not just a state, its a city in 
Pennsylvania, too. Firmly denying 
they had any routes that went to 
such mythical lands, they suggest
ed I ride to Erie, PA, and make my 
way to State College from there. 
Hmm. Despite the wait today, how
ever, I eventually purchased a tick
et for the route I wanted and 
sprinted to my gate. No bus yet. 
Noting the smartly dressed folks 
around me in ratty sweatsuits and 
faded Steelers jerseys, I decided to 
make friends later and go off in 
search of other pursuits. The 
choices were endless  I could 
have enjoyed a sumptuous meal in 
the 24-hour restaurant, gone out
side and engulfed myself in a wave 
of cigarette smoke and bus fumes, 
or traversed into bathrooms 
sketchier than the mens rooms in 
the sub- basement of Doherty Hall. 
Suddenly, sitting in one of those 
hard plastic chairs next to my fel
low Burgh residents didnt sound 
so bad after all.
12:26 pm:, The desired bus 
pulled up and announced its pres
ence with a delicate honk. My fel
low passengers and I clamored 
aboard, luggage and small chil
dren in tow. Luckily, the gods had 
smiled on me and I managed to get 
a seat to myself. I had the basic 
necessities for a relatively painless 
trip  snacks and a discman  but 
a down coat would have been nice:
I think Greyhounds philosophy is 
to freeze the passengers into tran
quility so as to avoid any unruli
ness. Ha.
Our driver managed to exit the 
station after two near-unsuccessful 
attempts to avoid hitting the bus 
beside us. In a monotone that 
rivaled Ben Stein, the driver 
announced the itinerary. It 
appears hes familiar with the state
 thats a good sign. My most 
traumatic Greyhound journey by 
far was from Philadelphia to 
Durham, and started out with the 
driver getting on the intercom and 
announcing, Ive never been to 
North Carolina, folks; do I take I95 north or south? (Needless to 
say, this trip was a complete disas
ter, involving an unanticipated 
four hour late-night wait in 
Richmond and a $56 taxi ride to 
get to my destination.) 
Fortunately, this trip didnt involve 
any states with tricky, tricky names 
such as North Carolina, so, per
haps were in luck. I crossed my 
fingers and hoped for the best.
1 pm, Monroeville Mall (or, 
Why wouldnt you just take the 
67A?): Ive never understood why 
we stop here. Its especially odd at 
See GREYHOUND, page B9
CD REVIEW
by Emma Rehm
Copy Co-Manager
In light of the current mass depres
sion that has fallen upon us in the 
last week, it seems almost offensive 
to write a music review. I dont want 
to pretend that what I have to say is 
more important or affecting than ter
rorism; it isnt. But I do want to say 
that Ben Folds Five is a band that has 
seen me through a lot of good and 
bad times.
Their self-titled album has a song 
called Philosophy which is my hell 
yeah I just showed them whos boss 
song. I recall one day in particular, 
my freshman year, bounding around 
my dorm room with a huge adrena
line rush after having finished a 
rather grueling exam.
The next disc, Whatever and Ever, 
Amen, though it did have a not-sogreat radio hit (Brick), is an album 
of an era. Its the soundtrack of dri
ving around after school, about 
smoking pot (or at least talking 
about it), and about mix tapes. Given 
the lyrics of Kate, I think probably 
half of the songs on Whatever made 
it onto my own mix tapes: When all 
words fail, she speaks/her mix tapes 
a masterpiece.
The last album by Ben Folds Five, 
The Unauthorized Biography of 
Reinhold Messner, will forever hold 
two associations: one, Mess, of a 
particularly traumatic breakup after 
a fairly long relationship, and two, 
Lullaby, of the following (failed) 
romance and (lasting) friendship.
And so it seems inevitable that at 
least one of the songs on Mister Bens 
debut solo album (Rockin the 
Suburbs') will be my anthem for this 
year, this moment, this surrounding 
shock and numbness. And maybe it 
seems mundane to think that an 
album that has got a tide track with 
the lyrics Let me tell yall what its 
like/being male, middle class and 
white/Its a bitch, if you dont 
believe/Listen up to my new cd 
could be an album of comfort, but it 
is. One of the first tracks is the won
derfully frank Still Fighting It, 
which proclaims that Everybody 
knows it sucks to grow up/but every
body does/its so weird to be back
here/Let me tell you what/the years 
go on and were still fighting it. 
Heres what I have to say about that: 
exactly.
The album starts on a lonesome, 
wistful note with Annie Waits 
(Shes waiting for a date who never 
shows). In fact, the subject matter of 
all of the songs is distinctly Ben Folds 
Quirkiness: a friend who climbs a 
tree while on acid, and climbs down 
the next morning as a born-again 
Christian; a forced retirement; and 
the ascent of a hippie to corporate 
American status (Hows it feel to be 
tfye man?/Its no fun to be the man.) 
In fact, the intro piano on The 
Ascent of Stan is strongly reminis
cent of the dramatic Mess from the 
previous album, so I anticipated 
something a bit more tragic than the 
story of a hippie who gave up. But 
the hyper-drama dissipates into 
more or less standard fair, with Bens 
piano staying under control, and his 
vocals more dominant than his 
piano.
And what would I do if hed gone 
and left me without a sad, slightly 
bitter breakup song? Fortunately I 
just dont have to worry about it, 
because the fourth track, just 
Gone, is a solid song  not heart 
wrenching, and not totally bitter, but 
with a full, upbeat sounding piano 
and the occasional crashing drum
ming, its enough to send a message 
of eventual recovery.
The title track, two songs from the 
end of the album, is not one of my 
favorites. Its more, of a novelty song
 the sort where you listen to it a 
couple of times for the amusing 
lyrics and then get irritated by the 
toy whistle noises in the background 
and skip it from then on. Musically, 
its the weakest song, but the album 
as a whole is brought back up by the 
next track, Fired. Its a bouncy, 
slightly jazzy number, with a little 
falsetto wailing and a terrific musical 
contrast to the frustration expressed 
by the lyrics.
The Luckiest ends the disc with a 
quiet, reflective love song about 
Bens wife. Its really a terrifically 
sweet song, without all the sap and 
goop that makes so many love songs 
completely revolting. And what that
See BEN, page B9
2001 sony music entertainment Inc. All Rights Reserved.
BY PAUL RICHELMI
Series 7: The Contenders 
Thursday, September 20
Series 7? The contenders? Geez, they make these movies 
more and more abstract these days. What happened to the 
days where the movie title actually described the movie? 
An Affair to Remember described that movie perfectly, The 
meeting (or lack thereof) atop the Empire State Building, 
was surely an affair to remember. See, you can describe the 
movie by using the title. The same goes for An American in 
Paris, and Chinatown. What does Series 7: The Contenders 
say? Absolutely nothin. Ugh!
What happened to Series 1-6? And are the participants of 
those not contenders as well? Are they just washed up fight
ers who will never have a shot at the title? Perhaps its like 
the Ultimate Fighting Championship. I remember the 7th of 
that series being exceptionally entertaining. I wonder if the 
Brazilian won that one. Imagine if there was a CMU UFC? 
Would the CS nerds overpower everyone with their smell, or 
would the H&SS students totally overpower everyone intel
lectually? It would be interesting.
At 8 pm, 10 pm, and midnight
In McConomy Auditorium
Moulin Rouge 
Friday, September 21
Welcome to the home of sin and debauchery, welcome to 
the Moulin Rouge! This movie was the best ever. It has a 
perfect balance of excellent directing, interesting musical 
choices, great acting, and ingenious cinematography. Ewan 
MacGregor and the ever-so-gorgeous Nicole Kidman bring 
together a wonderful story. I highly recommend going to all 
three showings of this film.
Take notice of the Count. Hes such a jerk. He has that 
sinewy little moustache and that piercing stupid little voice. 
He had to ruin the love between Satine and Christian. It 
would be interesting to see Toulouse and the Count on 
Celebrity Deathmatch. Perhaps Toulouse could bite the 
Counts ankles to eliminate him. However, hed also have to 
watch out for the high-pitched squeal that the Count might 
make. Toulouse better wear earplugs. I believe Toulouse 
would win. After all, no one loves the Count anyway.
At 5:30 pm, 7:30 pm, 10 pm, and 12:30 am
In McConomy Auditorium
One Night at McCools 
Saturday, September 22
For all those with possessive and manipulative ex-girlfriends, this movie is for you. It shows how evil women can 
be, and how stupid men can be to follow them. Liv Tyler is 
in it, along with Matt Dillon, Paul Reiser, and Michael 
Douglas. I wonder if this impressive cast ever got together to 
play poker. Somehow I can see Mike Douglas being a poker 
fiend, with his own chips and his own table. Hell get his 
kids whipped into little poker machines, teaching them 
poker tricks and poker faces. Maybe his character wouldnt 
have been such a loser in Wonderboys if he had played 
poker.
Come to think of it, if McCool is so cool, then why only 
spend one night there? Why not spend a week or a month? 
It sounds like a happening place to be. Maybe youll see 
Mike Douglas playing poker there, smoking a big cigar. 
Maybe McCool has a pool table, and a water skiing room, 
and a darts room, and a jazz lounge. Perhaps there is so 
much to do there that you cant do it all in a night. One day, 
instead of ClubMed, itll be ClubMcCool. Then soon 
ClubMcCool for singles. Then ClubMcCools for senior citi
zens.
At 8 pm, 10 pm, and midnight
In McConomy Auditorium
Eat the Rich 
Sunday, September 23
Yummy, rich people taste good. Hannibal Lechter told me 
so in an interview. Heres an excerpt.
McFlick: Mr. Lechter, what exactly distinguishes a rich 
person from a poor person. How do they taste different?
Mr. Lechter: Rich people are the delicacy of this world. 
Their blue blood makes the meat so tender and so juicy. I 
always have some in the freezer for midnight cravings.
MF: Of course. So, whos your favorite rich person that 
youve eaten?
HL: Bill Gates was tasty, but he didnt stay for the main 
course... the Sultan of Brunei was particularly scrumptious 
but he didnt stay for the main course either. It so frustrat
ing to have only a nibble.
MF: Thats understandable. Im happy Im not rich, Mr. 
Lechter. Thank you for your time.
HL: Oh anytime, McFlick. Youll do fine, perhaps you can 
come by for dinner sometime.
At 8 pm, 10 pm, and midnight
In McConomy Auditorium

---------------------------------------------------

Ben Folds offers comfort but without sap and goop
BEN from page B8
reveas to me is that Ben Folds has a certain pecu
liar eoquence, and a musical talent to match; he 
hasn lost anything.
Th- album feels very complete, with a good proporti<n of silly to serious songs, and I wasnt left 
feelir^ like rejecting the world around me, or like 
puttiig on my official Teeny Bopper uniform and 
showng my Pop Culture Pride. Ben Folds com
ment; about enjoying the liberty of making a pop 
albup since the breakup of the Ben Folds Five, 
thougi he still doesnt exercise that liberty any 
more han before: Now I can do a total pop thing 
and n>t have to apologize for it ... Im over that 
indie-ock attitude: you worry about what every
body else thinks, then dodge it all and pretend you 
dont care. Making this album, I had the opportu
nity to actually not care, and it was a beautiful 
thing.
With the typically dramatic and melancholy 
Ben Folds piano, Rockin the Suburbs is a thor
oughly satisfying album. Mister Ben also carries 
on his silly but comforting tradition of naming 
individuals in his songs. This album alone features 
an Annie, Zak, Sara, Stan, Lisa, Cathy, and of 
course Fred Jones (can it really be a different Fred 
Jones from the ScoobyDoo Fred?) makes his reap
pearance.
I suppose some might argue that Ben Folds 
without Robert Sledge and Darren Jessee (the rest
of the Five, who werent five at all, in fact, but 
three in total) is just not different enough from 
Ben Folds Five to warrant a solo album. Or maybe 
theyll say that its so similar to his old stuff that he 
just didnt need the rest of the band to make his 
signature sound. But I say this in response: Ben 
Folds with the band was great, and Ben Folds 
without the band can stand on his own as some
thing different, but equally great. And in the style 
of Ben Folds-with-the-Five, Ben Folds-withoutthe-Five doesnt let me down: he may bring me 
down with moving lyrics, but never lets me down. 
And that is just what I want from him.
FINAL GRADE: A
Greyhound traveler shares her love/hate relationship
GREYHOUND, from page B8
11 prron the route back to Pittsburgh. We continued to run an hour late, 
but intrue Greyhound fashion, our driver decided it was unofficial ciga
rette treak time and thus extended our stay in front of the Kaufmanns a 
few ni>re minutes. My fellow busmates had been relatively quiet up until 
this pint, but our silence was soon shattered by the arrival of a 
Greyhmnd newbie. Actually, it appeared this person (Greyhound 
Virgin as I shall refer to her from now on) had never even left The Gap 
to expTience any form of public transportation, as evinced by her shriek, 
Therts no seatbelts on this thing? Ohhhh, nooooooo! Although she 
was reissured by another passenger that Greyhounds are perfectly safe, 
this wmldnt be the last unique comment wed hear-from our Greyhound 
Virgin.
2 bn, Greensburg (a.k.a., And you thought it was only an hour 
away!}. No one actually got off in Greensburg, but our driver made the 
oblig tory drive around anyway. Heres a tip: If the driver has been cir
cling he block around your stop for longer than ten minutes, you may 
wan o subtly catch his or her attention by walking to the front of the bus 
and minting out the large TURN LEFT FOR GREYHOUND TERMINAL 
sign our drivers been missing. They may yell at you for being smartalec r, but hey, thats five less loops around the block youll have to 
sper on the bus from Hell. I once got to see a lot more of Greensburg 
thar Id ever intended during one such occurrence, so I urge you to 
mus r up all your backseat driver talents the moment you step on the 
veh: e.
2 10 pm, Latrobe (or, Its a fine time for some drinkie-drinkie): 
Her the driver learned the neato trick of leaning on the horn whenever 
a m isly car came within fifty yards of us. Either he was practicing for 
Spe 3: The Pennsylvania Turnpike, or he was enjoying a little too much 
of L :robes own Rolling Rock beer up there behind the wheel. And who 
cou blame him? This charming town is adorned with signs proudly 
pro aiming it the Hometown of Rolling Rock. Fabulous.
2 1-0 pm, Ligonier (better known as, Were hipper than Orlando, 
real ): Ligonier is also a rarely populated stop, seeing as though theres 
no  tual Greyhound terminal per se; the buses just pull alongside a currem r boarded-up gas station and see if anybody feels like hopping 
abo d. However, en route to/from Ligonier, the bus passes the greatest 
mys ;ry of all amusement parks: Idlewild Park. It may not have a large 
carl an rodent named Mickey beckoning you inside, but thats no reason 
to c ;rlook it! On another note, my fondest memory of Ligonier has to 
be 1 e time we picked up the poster child for Ritalin there. I had the 
gre; fortune of sitting next to a barely pubescent boy from here who 
ido' ;ed me because I was en route to a Penn State football game (You 
me; youre going <squeak> to State College?! Golly, I aint never 
<sc eak> been out there! And to a real, <squeak> live <squeak> footlT
ball game!) I didnt have the heart to tell him theyd probably lose by 
about 43 points. Sadly, they nearly did. He practically wanted my auto
graph, I was such a worldly traveler to him. Anyway, the point of this 
anecdote is to stress the utter importance of packing extra batteries for 
your music player. As you may have guessed, I forgot to do so on this one 
trip, and hence became Jimmy Bobs good friend for the remainder of my 
journey.
3:10 pm, Johnstown (frequent inspiration for whining, Are we 
there yet?): From Ligonier, our driver made record time reaching
Johnstown, a stop that always amuses me because its next to a restau
rant that proclaims to have the best hot dogs on Coney Island. Which is 
funny because, you know, Coney Island is actually not a part of 
Johnstown, so I dont know how they could have theirbeSt hot dogs 
there. Maybe someday I should pay them a visit and see if they know 
about Indiana being a city in Pennsylvania, too. Hot dogs or no, 
Johnstown is one of those stops youve got to be prepared for  without 
proper defensive planning, you may find yourself in the worst case sce
nario of suddenly sharing a seat with someone whos been hanging out at 
the Greyhound depot/Donut Stop a few too many hours. The most 
important thing to do to maintain independent seat ownership is to avoid 
eye contact  nows the time to sprawl across the seat and pretend to 
doze off, or play the part of a lovelorn coed and stare weepily out the 
window while playing piteous music just loud enough to be heard by 
those in the aisle. Do this, and youll be much more comfortable during 
the remainder of your journey.
3:50 pm, Ebensburg (home of the unfortunate misnomer, Dollar 
Discount): Greyhounds idea of a stop in Ebensburg is to park in front of 
the Dollar Discount store, which is a perversion of the American dollar 
store system. Isnt the point of a dollar store to sell items for one dollar? 
Tell it to the owners of this store; they proudly display lawn chairs for 
only $5 and 5-piece dish sets for the low price of $12. I guess those 10-10-220 commericals are right when they say you cant get much for a 
buck these days. What is the world coming to?
4:35 pm, Altoona (otherwise known as, So close, but yet so far...): 
By this time, Id been traveling since 10:30 am and was getting a bit antsy, 
seeing as though this is really only a two and a half hour drive by car. It 
was really hard to refrain from running desperately for the train station 
across the street. Some of us were still enjoying the new and exciting 
world of Greyhound travel, however, as the Greyhound Virgin (remem
ber her?) noticed the little plastic bags tacked beside her seat. Are these 
trash bags? she shrieked. For us to use? I thought they were for vom
iting if you get carsick! Yes, and you can put them over your head, too!
5:16 pm, State College (Finally!!): Well, about six hours and fiftyfour minutes later, my journey came to a halt. I had made it, for better or 
worse, through the Greyhound bus system.
By Debra Halpern
An Entertainment section cannot be an Entertainment section 
without an article on the VMAs (MTVs Video Music Awards).
The evening kicked off with Jamie Fox in a tux. A what? A tux! At 
the VMAs? I know, weirdness, a tux doesnt belong at the VMAs. The 
tux ended up turning into a Broadway medley of MTV hit songs. A 
great kick-start to a goofy award show, also known as the best award 
show to attend by entertainment favorites. While we are on the sub
ject of fashion, I must comment on some of the music celebrities 
attire. What was Kevin from the Backstreet Boys thinking when he put 
on a shirt? Why couldnt he be more like Outkast? (Who wore a great 
old school Hip Hop outfit with a bright orange jumper and green Mad 
Hatter hat.) And what was Mary J. Blige thinking with her Janet 
Jackson Rhythm Nation wannabe outfit? To think: Jennifer Lopez 
actually picked a nice outfit for her performance, finally a hit with her 
white skirt, white top, and a sash around her waist. Will Smith never 
fails to look good at the VMAs, this time in a slick, blue jacket. But the 
best of the night was Macy Grays shameless self-promotion. Her dress 
stated on the front, My album drops September 18, 2001 and on her 
butt, Buy it!
Now on to the good stuff that we really look forward to on VMA 
nights: that is, the performances. Alicia Keys really knows how to 
keep her hands busy as she flies all over her grand piano. Her per
formance, I will not hesitate to say, was the best of the night. It 
was complete with great vocals, good jazz, and a choir to back her 
up. However, NSync wasnt far behind  not because of their 
natural ability (in fact, their part of the show should be watched 
on mute). Michael Jackson, from the original boy band, showed 
the audience how to do the dance thing right at the end of 
NSyncs set. Down hill from that was the opener J Lo, who can 
dance Latino style quite well, but if only she wouldnt start 
singing. If Ja Rule werent a part of the tune, I would tell you that 
should have been watched on mute as well. And we cant forget 
Missy Elliots Freak performance with Nelly Furtado, who still 
hasnt won my heart, but I still love Missy no matter what. 
Between the mediocre lines is Jay-Z and U2, who didnt stand out 
either way. On the other hand, stinking the place would be Staind 
with their new single Fade. I wish they would finally fade away.
Finally a paragraph of her own: the much hyped-up performance of 
Ms. Britney Spears. Oops, she failed to do it again. Her new song 
sucked! Not that I expected to like it, but man, it wasnt even catchy. 
I thought it was a rule for cheesy teen queens to have catchy songs. 
Well, Ms. Spears breaks all the rules, and depended on her half naked 
body to do all the entertaining  that and her big snake wrapped 
around her neck with a look painted on her face as if she were about 
to wet herself. Now the best female pop teen star is Andy Dicks 
Daphne Aquilera.
The evening was completed by not-so-funny celebrity perfor
mances, a touching Aaliyah tribute, and interludes from Animal 
Planets best. Of course there is no need to mention any winners, 
because we all know VMAs are never about the winners. It is always 
about the crazy award show you will never get anywhere else. Too 
bad it looks like the pop culture Grammys more and more every 
year.
He designed the car of the future 
with virtually everything.
Role of the Engineer in the 
Product Creation Process
Monday, September 24th, 2001 
Singleton Room, Roberts Engineering Hall 
7pm - 9pm 
Pizza & Drinks to be provided
Information Technology 
Information Session
Sunday, September 23rd, 2001 
Porter Hall, Room 226C 
7:30pm
Pizza & Drinks to be provided
For more information about current career opportunities, visit our web site at mycareer.ford.com 
and learn more about the people, the products and potential of Ford Motor Company. We think 
youll like what you see. By choice, we are an Equal Opportunity Employer committed to a culturally 
diverse workforce.
VOL1INCOLNMercuryJAGUAASTON MART N
We gave Jessie the chance to tailor his work assignments to his own individual interests.
As it turns out, he was most interested in changing the world.
At Ford Motor Company, Jessies ideas have helped develop advanced powertrains for 
next generation automobiles. He has been actively involved with creating alternative fuel 
vehicles. And most recently, Jessie has been exploring the possibilities of electric and 
hybrid vehicles.
At Ford Motor Company, were committed to building dramatically cleaner and more 
fuel-efficient vehicles worldwide. Thats why were ready to talk about your future 
with Ford Motor Company.
Come visit our booth at the Business Opportunities Conference 
& the Technical Opportunities Conference on September 24th 
and September 25th, 2001 in the University Center Gymnasium.

---------------------------------------------------

What to Do if You Are Feeling Stress From 
the Tragic Events of September 11
What Can I Do?Tired of
your weight 
around?
American Heart 
Association,
Fighting Heart Disease 
and Stroke
Exercise.
Were not like every 
other high-tech company. 
Were hiring.
DRUNK DRIVING DOESNT 
UST KILL DRUNK DRIVERS.
Nicholas Esposito, killed Oct. IS, 
989 at 8:25pm.
Next time your friend insists on 
riving drunk, do whatever it takes to 
him. Because if he kills innocent 
how will you live with yourself?
FRIENDS DON'T LT FRIENDS DRfVE DRUNK.
Bankrobbers Wanted!!I
 top robbing your piggybank. Local 
ompany filling openings.
Vc
$14.00 base-appt.
)ver $40,000 in Scholarships
ivalable, conditions exist.
/ork 10-40 hrs around your classes.
Call M-F 1-6, 724-443-8900 
Visit us at 
www.vectormarketing.com
populeo 
incun 
tmoica 
la hennas 
portda
Promote Trips 
| at Carnegia Mellon 
am Cosh and Go Free 
Call for details!!!
 Avoid viewing repeated  Return to your usual routine.
media coverage of the event _ . , . Rnd a peaceful, quiet place to
 Talk it out! reflect and gain perspective.
 Ask for help if you need it  Do something that could
help othersmake an Listen to other people. . . . , ,appointment to give blood,
 Be especially kind to others. take a first aid or CPR class.
 Spend time with your family.
For more information about how you can help, contact your 
local American Red Cross chapter or visit www.redcross.org.
American Red Cross
Together, we can save a life
Please call 1-800-GIVE LIFE
to schedule your irfesaving appointment to give blood.+
 American Red Cross
Together, we can save a life
No one told you the hardest part of being an engineer would be finding 
your first job. Of course, it s still possible to get the high-tech work 
you want by joining the U.S. Air Force. You can leverage your degree 
immediately and get hands-on experience with some of the most 
sophisticated technology on earth.To find out how to get your career off 
the ground, call 1-800-423-USAF or visit our Web site at airforce.com.
?
U.S. AIR FORCE
Where it matters most.
As one of the world's leading diversified technology companies, we're breaking iw 
ground in everything from defense and commerciai electronics, to busii ss 
aviation and special mission aircraft. As a Raytheon employee, you'll contri te 
to the development of exciting, revolutionary technology designed to make life b* >r, 
easier, and safer throughout the world. Such as our STARS air traffic control sys n. 
And our award-winning NightSight technology.
But it all starts with you. Your creativity. Your knowledge. And enthusiasm about ie 
future. In return, we offer exceptional training and professional development op rtunities. A supportive, down-to-earth work environment. And incredible ben ts 
including flexible schedules designed to respect your quality of life.
Visit our Career Booth 
on Tuesday, September 25
So you can still show off all those great qualities of yours outside f 
work, too.
Please e-mail your resume to: resume@rayjobs.com (ASCII text only; no atta 
ments). U.S. citizenship may be required. We are an equal opportunity employer.
Opportunities are available in the following areas:
Computer Science
Computer Engineering
Electrical Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Math I
Physics
Chemical Engineering
Aeronautical Engineering
Finance/Accounting
Human Resources
Industrial and Labor Relations
Marketing/Communications
Management
Check out our Website at WWW.rdyj0bS.C0IH for further informon 
including a calendar of recruiting events. At Raytheon, we strive to be the emjyer 
of choice for a diverse workforce by attracting, retaining, and recognizing the 3st 
talented, resourceful and creative people.
RaytheonBringing technology to the edge

---------------------------------------------------

Props to www.fheBenrh.org
Piops to www.TheBench.mg
THE TARTAN  SEPTEMBER 17,2001
The Phatmaster
http://phat.resxmu.edu/phatmaster/a.---_
Howard, dude, 
you should go 
donate blood!
You get some 
juice and a 
cookie you 
selfish bastard!
College students will do 
anything for free stuff...
Hey Howard! Free summer's 
eve if you donate your liver!
What do I get 
out of it?
Free food? 
I'm so there!
Could this day 
get any better?
After careful deliberation, the solution preented itself: create a race of genetically-enhanced females to take place in a 
series of athletic competitions 
held in geosynchronous orbit.
Miraculously, though, those 
affected made the realization that the use of force would only result in the loss of additional innocent lives.
It became clear after such an act had been committed that 
someone would have to pay.
BackspaceW0...S0 many precious 
lives lost. What a 
^ waste.
Well, at least the president 
persuaded them not to 
attack the white house.Totally.
Planes crashed at WTC.Hey, many of my 
fellow computers 
were destroyed 
too....I'M 11 III, 11 1  * ,,,  It IMH
,,, ;; .I....
""('"Ml, , , I I '["I"
The victory was bloodless, but networks weren't about to let the highest rated program in television history get away without a fight.
He's nfever there.
War!?
Peace!!An international team of scientists headed one side, as the fate of the free world was 
at stake. The other toiled in secret, confident that a supernatural force would guide 
them to victory.
When the day arrived, billions 
tuned in live to see the deaths 
of thousands avenged via an exciting sporting event 
sponsored by Nike.
1ZYAH An PE 125 0N
srsde D y~ -eAibk
MAY GOD CONTINUE TO BE WITHAS NOT ONLY A NATIVE NEW
US ALL AT OUR TIME OF NEEDYORKER BUT AS A CITIZEN OF THE
AND HELP US RID OUR COUNTRYUNITED STATES MY HEART WAS
OF THE DARK AND DREARY CLOUDTORN ON TUESDAY. WHAT'S LEFT
THAT LOOMS OVER OUR HEADS.OF MY HEART GOES OUT TO ALL
THAT HAVE EXPERIENCED LOSS.
jstater @andrew.cmu.edu
You're gonna fa-ail. Youre gonna fa-ail. 
Nah nah nahnah naah nah! _
You look like shit. Where have you been?
i anticipated this, 
so i drank from 
vour milk carton.
I got mono, I've been 
sleeping through my 
classes af! week, 
-x'* It sucks." Holy shit!
You vengeful bastardi
WIDESPREAD BELIEF I HI ADANGEROUS MYTH
O
 Under normal driving conditions, do anti-lock brakes (ABS) 
allow you to come to a stop more quickly in a shorter distance 
than conventional brakes?jstater @ar>drew.crrm.edu
So squirrels actually do make cars crash 
like in that commercial....Holy shit, I didnt think you had it in you!
SKREEEU!
RRRR-K!
Sd.-G5_
24%
Don't know
My cousin Tony helped 
choreograph that one.Well you were wrong. 
Pay up, 55.
The correct answer is NO. Alarmingly, more than half of all drivers 
wrongly think that ABS shortens stopping distance.
Source: AAA Foundation for Traffic Safety nationwide survey of 873 drivers conducted in December, 1994 
by Bruskin/Goldring Research

---------------------------------------------------

RNKCTHE TARTAN  SEPTEMBER 17, 2001
Lift MU6UU
(pToo | 
cDVF
VOQUcS*V\C-e
fSKHo^iJcewciir
gTtVmb6^?0  Ni 1 fsi (5
t'l )
TH^(2.t AQ.& vthhtTiw 
y, 12&Lr YCN.FM l2r.
THE MISADVENTURES OF
JiMMY H00TH
THE CHICKEN THAT IS UNCOUTH.
Aft-t |V\lues 
ivwues Tp wpV6m
IN) PiUU DlR-tCTtorOS
SAGHT \pi N\VC?0Le
Bfcl0 6 .TU ESDAYWNHD 
OPTl^e SPACE
IT SOftT OP v2UpBr ^OOC. U)ATE(2_
"POINTLESS CHILDHOOD RECOLLECTION #453'AS RETOLD BY JUSTIN SUISSA
tj kevm ftvrns 
kev'm^-Ui'gWhft ef*
vmc.11 +aKit . closer look, .\ Wave 3r cAYffererri- V IYio<AeSn I v------^
0
???
ftftft
HvisvW^ckUin;napping
Shwt if- ho ,1 doA-t" WAfVAfthew- 'ft'.
\rv\ always m 
of c^eez. s-hvV-es
HHp*. //4V\o^bo-h ne+ / +ViVcjbo+'
Ik
Were
ii' : P|
ng a airrerence.
rt and saddened by the terrible tragedies.
But its important to do something. Ib help out. Im 
going to donate blood because I know it will help save 
lives. I don't mind waiting in line because its important. 
This is where 1 want to be. With other people who want 
to help too.
The. American Red Cross is profoundly grateful to all 
blood donors everywhere, every day. We are especially 
proud of your commitment to help save a life in the days, 
weeks and months ahead. We could not save lives with
out vou.
Please call 1-800-GIVE LIFE
to schedule your lifesaving appointment to give blood.
American Red Cross
Together, we can save a life

---------------------------------------------------

PUT NAM INVESTMENTS
At Putnam Investments, we manage more than
just investment portfolios. We offer the skills and experience
you need to develop a competitive career portfolio. Weve built a solid 
reputation as an industry leader with over 60 years of investment experience. 
We have the resources and the expertise to help you develop essential skills, 
such as fundamental research, analytical questioning, and teamwork. Youll also 
enhance your time management, communication, and creativity skills.
Learn more about career opportunities at Putnam Investments, a global 
leader in the rapidly growing and dynamic investment management business.
PUTNAM INVESTMENTS
CORPORATE PRESENTATION AND RECEPTION 
SEPTEMBER 20, 2001 
7:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m.
PETER WRIGHT ROOM, UNIVERSITY CENTER


---------------------------------------------------

Calendar
17 September 2001THE TARTANPage B14
T:19I8:D AKHL: ,EW :LUO1HL 
FPJRt^zaf$ Ra55Jfz^l TFY0zRF
"A Time to Learn: Professors Explain the Crisis" 
A panel discussion related to the ongoing crisis to pro
vides information to enable understanding and reflection 
about the events of last week 
Monday, 12:30 - 2:30 pm 
The Fence
Peace Rally  Students gather to speak out for a 
peaceful response to last week's events.
Monday, 4:30 pm 
The Fence
Alpha Phi Omega collections  Members will be col
lecting donations for the NY chapter of the Red Cross 
and for the firefighter relief fund.
Monday - Friday
Outside the UC and by the Fence
"America at War: The Moral Imperative for SelfDefense"  Dr. Andrew Bernstein will talk about why 
self-defense is a moral necessity that our lives depend 
on. The lecture will be followed by a Q&A period. 
Monday, 7 pm 
McConomy Auditorium, UCShaina McGrath/ Photo Co-Editor
monday, 9/17Wednesday, 9/19hursday, 9/2Q
Juliana Theory (Alternative), An
Evening With. This will be a live recording for 
the next release on Tooth & Nail Records. 
Tickets: $10 in advance and $10 day of show. 
Doors: 6 pm Show: 7 pm. All ages.
America at War: The Moral
Imperative for Self-Defense. 7 pm,
McConomy Auditorium. Dr. Andrew 
Bernstein will talk about why he believes selfdefense is a moral necessity and our lives 
depend on it. This lecture will be followed by 
a Q&A period. For more information, visit: 
http://www. andrew. emu. edu/~ reason/
iuesday, 9/18
Three Rivers Educational Technology 
Conference. 8 am, Carnegie Science Center. 
The theme of this years conference is 
Technology: Learning Without Boundaries 
and is geared towards educators involved in 
technology. Please visit the Web site 
http:// TRETC.org or call (412) 237-1640.
Student Senate Meeting. 6:30 pm, Peter 
Room, University Center. You can see your stu
dent government at work for you in their first 
meeting of the semester. If you want to get 
involved, come to the meeting and see how 
things work.
The French Table. Every Tuesday from 
4:30 pm to 5:30 pm at Skibo Coffeehouse.
Vito Acconci, Performance Artist. 6 pm,
Philip Chosky Theater. Vito Acconci pioneered a 
conceptually-based performance art, which 
developed out of his interests in language and 
poetry. For Acconci, the body was a physical 
force that transgressed the borders of public 
space.
Neil Spisak, Production Designer for 
Spiderman. 7 pm, Philip Chosky Theater. Neil 
Spisak, Carnegie Mellon School of Drama alum
na, is one of Hollywoods most sought-after pro
duction designers. He is currently working on 
the highly anticipated Columbia Pictures 
release, Spiderman.
Regina Gouger Miller Gallery Fall 2001 
Exhibition. 4:30 pm to 6:30 pm, Regina Miller 
Gouger Gallery. The Gallery starts its second fall 
season by presenting three exhibitions: Aether 
features recent work by two well-known 
Pittsburgh artists, Delanie Jenkins and Linn 
Meyers, and New York artists Shari Mendelson, 
Paul Stremple, and Paul Villinski. For Gallery 
information, call x8-3618.
Future City Competition 2002. 8 am,
Carnegie Science Center. For more information 
on volunteering as an engineer mentor for the 
Future City Competition 2002, please contact 
Amy Robeson at (412)237-1640 or Carl W. 
Schwartz at (412)374-3678.
Do you have an event you 
would like to publicize in The 
Tartan Calendar? Its free! 
Send it to
tartan@and.rew. emu. edu.
Technology and the Future of the 
Human Soul or What is a Person? 4:30 
pm in the Phillip Chosky Theater, Purnell 
Center. An informal reception will follow the 
talk at 5:30 pm. For more information, 
please contact Nancy Klancher 
(klancher@andrew.cmu.edu) or register 
online at the following Web site: 
http://www. cmu.edu/adm/apaa/gpo/ALCO 
AAA.
Hans Haacke, Performance Artist. 7
pm, Philip Chosky Theater. Han Haacke is a 
conceptual artist and the 2001 Robert Lepper 
Distinguished Lecturer in the School of Art. 
His work is described as political archeology 
transformed into visual art. After a decade of 
ecological sculptures that examined complex 
structures of nature, Haacke turned to com
plex structures of culture.
Student Body President Office Hours.
3 to 4 pm, the Underground. Talk with your 
Student Body President, Adam Harber, about 
any concerns you have about campus and stu
dent life. Come by with any comments or 
questions. For more information, email 
sbp@ andrew. cmu.edu.
Brenda Wong Aoki, Noh Poet and 
Performance Artist. 5:45 pm, Philip 
Chosky Theater. Brenda is currently a Regents 
Artist at the University of California, Santa 
Cruz, and continues to perform throughout 
the United States and Canada.
Pirates Game. 7 pm, PNC Park. For more 
information, please call 1-877-893-BUCS or 
visit the Web site: http://www.pittsburghpirates.com.
official voice of older, wiser Irina
Stop talking about mustard There comes a time
where youre just not 
coo! If you dont code.
WHEN I GO TO CANADA, I 
LIKE TO HAVE FUN
codemm alcohol
/ love AMISH WOMEN
BOOF
THE PHOTO SQUARE IS A SQUARE
Are we going to do it family 
style?
IG, YOUR BUTT IS TOO BIG.
Tom, thats what we 
call a prostitute.
470BBa umB0l
CrtwmeUerU%%%
Welcome to CMU, Petre. 
The Tartan
i0M
Bounce little Piasano outta bed. 
run him down to 
Eat-n-Park for a bearclaw, arid 
get him to the
"so-called" specialist early so
you're ready to leave
for camp at 11:30 you dummy
Do you have any mints?
REPENT
Greg, we're going to miss you!
ShaianM ciGirt/
Yanni... transcending 
space and time.LEX
ERFI IBFHT RFL LFHOKjYou put 
snot on the
ball? Why are you mad at me? He's
the one who ate your father.
It would suck to be 
born with cooties
This is serious! I cant find the 
photo square!!! F**k this sh**t.
Do you have any mints?
Who, the High Priestess 
of Mustard Making?
Beer Goggles 1 want to see the lobster
die. I mean, go to sleep. _ ... , 
nice underwear, I fought a dragon in miiavoK.sk mm
greg. * real life Shove it Princeton boy! 'lkan, Univmii
 ~. We go to bed at 10pm! Vos M ^First you rip the tail off. Then you use your
lobster crackling thing to remove the claws. Don_l,t..J:ouch my.buttons 1
I was only in TWO fights 
in high school.
scrammbled eggs with salsa
Ray, when some
one asks you if 
you're a God, 
you say yes
ingenerai. Iris basicaiiv. 
rcmotelr real or
The Cuarteto Latino Americano. 8 pm,
Kresge Performance Hall. The Cuarteto Latino 
Americano was formed in Mexico City, in 1981. 
Two years after their inception, the group was 
awarded the prize of the Music Critics 
Association in Mexico. They are internationally 
recognized as a unique voice in classical music, 
bringing the works of Latin American com
posers to the world.
Circus of the Abnormal, Bull Seal! 
Collective. 9 pm, Cut and Philip Chosky 
Theater. The Bull Seal! Collective makes com
plete and total nonsense. Language no longer 
consorts with context and action in this neverbefore-seen ritual demonstration of what they, 
the Bull Seal! Collective, believe to be a further 
evolution of ancient truths, a conjunction of 
principles, that we are only now able to com
prehend.
friday, 9/21
Stray Birds I. 5:45 pm, Philip Chosky 
Theater. Stray Birds I is derived from a collec
tion of poems by the Indian poet Rabindranath 
Tagore.
The Clarks. 4:30-6 pm at CFA Lawn, 
Rangos Ballroom if inclement weather. 
Sponsored by Student Affairs, Office of 
Orientation and First Year Programs.
The Impossibles (Indie/Alternative).
Plus River City High, Recover, and A Week In 
July. Doors open at 6:30 pm. Show starts at 7 
pm. Tickets: $8 advance & $10 at the door. All 
ages welcome.
Heliopause. 8 pm, Philip Chosky Theater. 
An original operatic production teams a worldrenowned poet with truly interdisciplinary 
Carnegie Mellon students. Heliopause is based 
totally in Haiku, an ancient art form that is 
experiencing a renaissance unprecedented in 
the poetry world.
Saturday, 9/22
Stray Birds, Part II. 3 pm, at The
Mattress Factory. Call (412) 231-3169 for 
details.
WRCTs local music event. CFA lawn. 4 to 
11 pm. Bands will include Boxstep, Kilty 
Pryde, Cut Once, the Hi-Frequencies, and 
Lonely Planet Boy.
Carnegie Mellon Philharmonic 
in concert. 8 pm. Carnegie Music Hall, 
Oakland. A dress rehearsal is also scheduled 
in the afternoon 3-6 pm the same day.
Call the Carnegie Mellon Concert Line x8- 
2383. Repertoire to be be announced.
sunday, 9/23
Bridge Spotters. 4 to 5 pm, 10 pm, at
the Mattress Factory. The BridgeSpotters 
will perform a piece that investigates the 
relationship between the conception and 
execution of a collaborative work. For more 
information, please call (412) 322-2231.
