Volume 94, Issue 19tartan@andrew.cmu.edu
Tuesday Carnegie Mellons Student Newspaper Since 1Q06W /1Q/I r. J. J.
WEDNESDAY
Hi 55/Lo 42
THURSDAY
Hi 55/Lo 36
FRIDAYTHE TARTAN
Computing services upgrades network
The Hillel organization is currently working to raise money to begin, building a Jewish University Center on Forbes 
Avenue. The new building will be targeted towards CMU and University of Pittsburgh students.
by Sriram GoilapalliScience & Technology Editor 
& Sara Stille News Editor
Computing Services has intro
duced a variety of different 
upgrades to the campus computing 
community over the past semester. 
Everything from network access to 
Andrew quotas are being improved 
and increased.
One of the main projects 
Computing Services has taken on 
this year is upgrading the campus 
network by increasing its band
width and reliability. So far seven 
buildings out of 30 have completed 
the change from a 100Mbps con
nection to lGbps. The two-year 
project involves not only upgrades 
to the physical building links for 
faster speeds, but also the addition 
of new services. In parallel to the 
physical aspects of the upgrade, we 
can now find new uses and 
improvements, said Charles 
Bartel, the Director of Operations 
for Computing Services. The old 
network infrastructure wouldnt let 
us facilitate new Internet services, 
such as real-time live broadcast, 
said Tracy Futhey, the vice provost
of Computing Services and the 
Chief Information Officer. Students 
will soon be able to experience live 
video lectures and audio casts out
side of CMU over the network.
Computing. Services has already 
worked with several academic 
departments to run pilot tests in the 
aforementioned areas. They are 
working within the music depart
ment to make performances avail
able over the network and they 
have also broadcasted a CS speaker 
series live online. Another example 
is Robert Cavalier, who is currently 
teaching a class over the network to 
See NETWORK, page 3
by Seth MandelManaging Editor
Local Jewish university students 
will soon have a new place they can 
call home. Representatives from 
Hillel: The Foundation for Jewish 
Campus Life recently announced 
their plans to build a new facility.
The new building, which was 
designed by the architectural firm 
Rothschild Architects, will be three 
stories tall and encompass 12,000 
square feet. It will be located down 
the street from campus on Forbes 
Avenue, in an empty space between 
Footers Cleaners and Unimart.
There will be a student lounge 
which will be like a caf or coffee 
shop; an educational room and 
chapel; an activities room that will 
have pool tables and a TV; a meeting 
place; a computer room that will
have Internet connections and color 
printers; a multipurpose room that 
will be suitable for dinners, lectures, 
classes, movies, and parties; and 
flexible lobbies on each floor for a 
variety of other informal purposes, 
said the firms president, Daniel 
Rothschild.
The basic reason why this build
ing is so important is because 
Jewish students dont have a space 
thats totally their own. The inabili
ty for us to have that space makes it 
very difficult to develop Jewish life 
for students, said Dan Wiseman, 
Executive Director of the Hillel 
Foundation of Pittsburgh,
According to Wiseman, Hillel is 
an organization for Jewish students 
at 120 campuses worldwide and has 
an additional 400 affiliated organi
zations. Hillel works with Jewish 
students to try to engage [them] to 
be involved- in Jewish life, said
Wiseman, who added that their 
activities are social, cultural, and 
educational. He also said that many 
of their activities are open to the 
entire community.
Wiseman said The Hillel Jewish 
University Center of Pittsburgh 
serves area colleges and focuses pri
marily on CMU and University of 
Pittsburgh students, since those are 
the schools with the most Jewish 
students. He estimates that about 
10 percent of CMU students are 
Jewish.
In the past, Wiseman said that 
attendance at events has been limit
ed based on which campus was the 
host; CMU students were reluctant 
to attend events on Pitts campus  
and vice versa. He expects to see a 
dramatic increase in participation in  
activities since the new building can 
accommodate about 150 people in
See HILLEL, page 3 !
Organization works to unite campus
by Megan AdrianceStaffwriter
Resignation of Paul Christiano leaves CMU in search of new provost
After 9 years as provost of CMU, Paul Christiano has decided to resign and return 
to teaching civil engineering.
by Aseem GuptaWebmaster
As bagpipers played outside of his office on a 
balmy Wednesday afternoon last week, 
President Jared Cohon discussed Carnegie 
Mellons unique culture. He explained that in 
the constantly evolving world of science, tech
nology, and the arts, Provost Paul Christiano 
has steadfastly served Carnegie Mellons stu
dents, faculty, and staff. However, after almost 
a decade of service, Christiano is resigning his 
post, to take a sabbatical and return to his home 
department.
To have served as provost of Carnegie 
Mellon is a great privilege, one that few individ
uals are accorded, said Christiano in a letter to 
the University community. I am grateful and 
honored to have been able to serve in this
capacity for nine years. Now, though, I look for
ward to taking a sabbatical, spending more time 
with my family, and preparing to undertake 
new activities at the University.
The word that comes to mind is extraordi
nary, said President Jared Cohon, when asked 
to describe Christianos tenure. Paul is a won
derful person and an outstanding citizen. 
Christiano accepted the post of provost in 
1981 under the presidency of Robert 
Mehrabian, and he was a key participant in the 
Universitys last two strategic planning sessions. 
[He placed a] renewed emphasis on under
graduate education, and the broadening of the 
experience of undergraduates, said Cohon. 
Christiano was also responsible for creating the 
Vice Provost for Education and the Vice Provost 
for Research positions in an effort to renew 
emphasis on research and education.
Ive always felt comfortable talking to him,
said Indira Nair, Vice Provost for Education. He 
does what is best for CMU, and he doesnt nec
essarily want the credit. He has made the posi
tion about doing good for the University.
While serving as provost, Christiano helped 
to give new power to individual colleges, and: 
worked to make the process of granting of 
tenures and professorships more fair for all 
involved. He did a superb job in a period of 
great progress for the University, said Mark 
Kamlet, dean of the Heinz School. Paul had 
tremendous respect from the deans, and a welldeserved reputation for integrity. He was 
superbly supportive of the [Heinz] School and 
instrumental in encouraging us.
Cohon said that Christiano has always acted 
in the best interest of all colleges. Paul has 
been at the center of strategic investments in 
each of our academic units, said Cohon in a letSee RESIGN, page 5
Womens basketball team wins ECAC
by Damian OlesnyckyJunior Staffwriter
The womens basketball team 
stormed to three straight wins in 
the Eastern College Athletic 
Conference (ECAC) Division III 
Southern Region Tournament to 
capture the championship and 
close out an outstanding season. 
Junior guard Lauren Petruzzi was 
named tournament MVP after three 
brilliant performances, with firstyear forward Erin Brady and senior 
center Kara Coval playing major 
roles in the teams success as well. 
With the tournament wins, the 
Lady Tartans finished with an 18 
10 overall record and an 87 mark 
in the always-difficult UAA confer
ence games.
The postseason sweep yielded
quite a few distinguished achieve
ments for this years team, easily 
among the programs strongest in 
the last decade. The ECAC title is 
the first title of any sort for the Lady 
Tartans since capturing the 1990 
91 UAA crown, and the opening 
ECAC win marked the first postsea
son victory since defeating Franklin 
and Marshall in the first round of 
the 1989 NCAA tournament. 
Additionally, the Teams final 
record is the first winning record 
since the 199293 campaign, and 
the 18 wins are the most in a season 
since the team went 186 in 
199192.
The road to the tournament title 
began at Skibo Gymnasium with 
the first round match against a 
Penn State-Behrend Lions oppo
nent flaunting an impressive 197 
. regular season mark. Carnegie
Mellon was the third seed, and thus 
was hosting the sixth-seeded Lions. 
The Lady Tartans handled their 
opponents without difficulty by 
shooting 48 percent from the field 
and playing gritty defense against 
the Lions half court sets. The game 
was never really within reach for 
Behrend; the Tartans led by 11 at 
halftime and at one point found 
themselves up by 21. Erin Brady 
turned in an outstanding perfor
mance for the Tartans,, with 18 
points. The 6756 win propelled 
Carnegie Mellon into the tourna
ment semifinals against the secondseeded Wesley College Lady 
Wolverines of Delaware, who host
ed the rest of the tournament.
In the semifinal game, Carnegie 
Mellon played Wesley very strong
See BASKETBALL, page 14
Hillel plans Jewish university center
INSIDE THE TARTAN
Forum
Tuesdays primary 
results left only two 
major contenders 
standing ... Read 
about it in Forum 
Page 6
Arts & Living
Find out about Scotch 
n Sodas W/ Q/Ir 
.Hi5/Lo42 346HTu and 
a futuristic exhibit at 
the UC.
Page LI
Science & 
Technology
Explore your dream 
environment at the 
Intelligent 
Workplace.
Page L9
Entertainment
The trendy Pi 
Pizzahouse is the 
latest to be 
reviewed.
Page L13
Calendar
Top of the morn
ing to you. Plan 
your St. Patrick's 
Day today, 
page LI6
Collision causes chaos: An accident on the intersection of Forbes Ave. and Beeler St. Friday resulted 
in a multi-car pile up. While the crash looked deadly, no one was seriously injured.
Campus unity through diversity is the goal for 
Carnegie Mellons newest organization, Lead and 
Initiate a Networked Campus Community (LINCC).
While LINCC just received approval from Senate on 
Thursday, March 9, planning for the organization 
began a year ago. About that time, Suzanne Bleier, a 
junior chemical engineering major and LINCC 
President, attended a conference about racial hate 
crimes that was sponsored by Asian Student 
Association (ASA). The speakers told us that if we 
werent part of the solution we were part of the prob
lem, said Bleier. It was then that Bleier began to plan 
an organization that she believed would improve racial 
and cultural relations on the college campus.
See LINCC, page 3
W/QI/ r.Hi/5Lo454 W5/22 r/I/36i
Several students, including the two above, have started a 
new organization in hopes of uniting clubs on campus.

---------------------------------------------------

2THE TARTAN  MARCH 13, 2000
^OF
Thrill leaves Campaign 2000
WASHINGTON (AP)  Its back 
to voting as usual; that is to say, not 
very much voting at all.
After record-busting turnouts 
from people excited by John 
McCains candidacy on one hand 
and intent on stamping it out on 
the other, participation in the 
presidential primaries turned as 
dormant as McCains now-phan
tom campaign.
Nobody cares, said election 
judge Clayton Hurst in Salt Lake 
City. He watched GOP primary vot
ers trickle in at a pace of one every 
20 minutes Friday as people in 
three Western states filed in light 
numbers to polling booths or cau
cuses.
Melia Hadley, 29, an indepen
dent from Salt Lake City, looked 
over the ballot and decided not to 
vote. I was thrilled with McCain, 
she said. He lit the fire in my belly 
about politics again.
How quickly it all changed: from 
McCains Star Wars imagery and 
movie theater-type lines to My 
Dinner with Andre  two guys 
talking, and please pass the wine.
; McCains insurgent Republican 
candidacy brought hordes of previ
ously apathetic citizens out to do 
what so many had never done 
before  vote for a Republican, or 
vote at all. He mobilized the people 
who liked him and those who want
ed to stop him in his tracks.
Now, the whole thing between 
two leaden candidates is somnifer
ous.
At one downtown Salt Lake City 
precinct, eight voters showed up in 
six hours.
Still, officials tending the twoparty primaries Friday in Utah and 
Colorado, as well as GOP caucuses 
and a straw poll in Wyoming, put 
on a brave face.
Itll be worth as much as it was 
last time, offered Brian Lovett, 
chairman of Laramie County 
Republicans in Wyoming. Alan 
Keyes hasnt dropped out yet.
The voice of the West will be 
heard, Utah Gov. Mike Leavitt, a 
backer of Texas Gov. George W. 
Bush, said optimistically as he cast 
his ballot, leaving it unclear whos 
listening.
Although Bill Bradley stirred up 
some excitement of his own in tak
ing on fellow Democrat A1 Gore, an 
analysis of voter participation cred
its McCain with getting Americans 
out to vote in large numbers.
The story of this primary season 
was McCain, says Curtis Gans of 
the Committee for the Study of the 
American Electorate.
Gans study found Republican 
turnout hit record highs in 13 of 18 
states that voted through Super 
Tuesday, while Democratic turnout
was the second lowest in 40 years.
Republican participation overall 
was the highest its been since 
another Arizona maverick, Sen. 
Barry Goldwater, ran and won in 
1964.
Whether he was winning or los
ing, McCain put on a show.
He routed Bush in New 
Hampshire and won Michigan 
thanks to independents and 
Democrats. He went down hot
headed in South Carolina and 
Virginia, at one point attacking 
evil in the leadership of the reli
gious right.
When Tuesdays series of pri
maries and caucuses was over, his 
lasers were spent.
Too bad, Dana Hadley, assistant 
town administrator in Peterborough, 
N.H., thought Friday.
He did generate a lot of excite
ment, Hadley said. Now, its kind 
of a done deal.
Two days before the New 
Hampshire primary, about 1,500 
jammed Peterboroughs town cen
ter to see him, spilling out into the 
streets, in a community of 6,000. 
About 70 percent of the towns eli
gible voters cast ballots on primary 
day, overwhelmingly in support of 
McCain.
We got a lot of attention from 
him, Hadley said. When youre 
nurtured, you respond.
Bangladesh students protest Clinton
DHAKA, Bangladesh (AP)  
About 300 leftist students burned 
a straw-and-cloth effigy of 
President Clinton on Sunday as 
they marched through the Dhaka 
University campus shouting antiAmerican slogans to protest his 
visit to Bangladesh later this 
month.
Protesters stoned several cars 
when police used batons to prevent 
them from leaving campus and 
marching to the U.S. Embassy on 
the other side of town. At least 15 
students were injured.
Leftist and Islamic groups 
believe Clintons visit is an attempt 
to pressure the government to 
award lucrative deals to American 
companies for gas and oil explo
ration. An alliance of 11 leftist par
ties have planned a series of 
protests during Clintons daylong 
visit on March 20.
Meanwhile, the government is 
gearing up for the first visit by an 
American president to Bangladesh 
and has canceled leave for sweep
ers to make sure the roads in the 
capital are clean during Clintons 
visit.
The president arrives in 
Bangladesh three days after the 
Islamic festival of Eid-ul-Azha, 
when the country shuts down for a 
five-day holiday.
In previous years, the streets and 
gutters remained full of blood, 
entrails and body parts of cattle 
slaughtered publicly as part of a
ritual sacrifice because the sweep
ers took leave from their jobs to cel
ebrate the festival.
Officials want to make sure that 
does not happen this year, when 
Clinton flies to Dhaka, the capital. 
Bangladesh is a predominantly 
Muslim nation of 125 million peo
ple.
We must clean the Dhaka streets 
as much as possible before the U.SV 
president arrives, Mohammad 
Ashrafuddin, chief health and sani
tation officer at the Dhaka City 
Corp., said Sunday.
The corporation that looks after 
the citys usually dirty streets has 
ordered 10 tons of bleaching pow
der to spray on gutters before 
Clinton arrives, Ashrafuddin said.
Corrections & Clarifications
The editorial Information Systems Program fails to meet student's needs, in the last issue, misstated some 
facts. First there are approximately 250 IDS students currently, not 400. The faculty that left the program did 
so in the last two years, not three years ago. Also, a clarification should be made in regards to the lottery sys
tem. Students will not be randomly thrown into one of the four ISP tracks. Instead they will rank their prefer
ence for a major, and an attempt will be made to accommodate them into one of their top choices. Also, the sen
tence that read An even better idea would be for the Vice Provost of the school... should read the Vice Provost 
for Education.
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of an error, please contact Editor-in-Chief Ish Harshawat atx8-2111 or tartan@andrew.cmu.edu
National News
W. Va. votes 
against gay 
marriage
CHARLESTON, W.Va. (AP)  
The West Virginia Legislature voted 
Saturday to ban homosexual mar
riages and prohibit the state from 
recognizing such marriages per
formed in other states.
On the last day of the 60-day leg
islative session, the House 
approved the measure 96-3 and 
sent it to the governor for his signa
ture. The Senate previously passed 
it unanimously. Gov. Cecil 
Underwood introduced the ban, so 
his agreement is expected.
We were concerned we didn't 
have a statute. We could be forced 
into recognizing same-sex mar
riages from other states, 
Underwood said.
The bill would allow marriage
licenses to be issued only to couples 
consisting of a man and a woman.
The bill also prohibits West 
Virginia from recognizing homo
sexual marriages performed in 
other states.
Chuck Smith, co-chairman of the 
West Virginia Lesbian and Gay 
Coalition, said, I think this is a 
really sad day. The main purpose of 
the bill is to say, once again, that 
people who are gay and lesbian are 
second-class citizens.
Cheating at 
Dartmouth?
HANOVER, N.H. (AP) 
Dartmouth College cleared 78 stu
dents of accusations they cheated 
in a computer science class.
After reviewing 500 pages of evi
dence, school officials said Friday 
the case was so confusing it was 
impossible to determine who was
responsible.
Some students in the introduc
tory class said that they were 
tempted to cheat when visiting 
professor Rex Dwyer left the 
answer to a complicated problem 
on the class Web site and displayed 
its Internet address on an over
head projector.
Computer records later revealed 
which terminals were used to 
obtain the answers, but officials 
said that in itself was not enough to 
prove which students cheated.
We just dont have any way of 
knowing whose fingers were on 
what keyboard, said James 
Larimore, dean of the college.
Dwyer, a North Carolina State 
University professor who has since 
resigned from the two classes he 
was teaching at Dartmouth, was 
unimpressed with the findings.
I think its a whitewash, he 
said.
World News
Mine blast kills 
dozens
KIEV, Ukraine (AP)  A methane 
gas explosion ripped through a coal 
mine in eastern Ukraine on 
Saturday, killing 80 workers and 
injuring seven in the former Soviet 
republics worst mine disaster in 
decades.
The early afternoon blast at the 
Barakova mine came at a depth of 
2,191 feet while 277 people were 
working in the mine, the Emergency 
Situations Ministry said.
Nearly 200 miners managed to 
leave the shaft after the blast, it 
said.
Vitaly Ageev, senior duty officer 
at the ministry, said 80 miners were 
killed and seven were hospitalized 
after being rescued from the mine, 
in Krasnodon, about 530 miles east 
of Ukraines capital, Kiev. All of the 
workers in the mine were accounted 
for.
Thirty-three rescue units were 
engaged in bringing the bodies to 
the ground, emergency officials 
said.
Ukraines frequent deadly coal 
mine accidents are often caused 
by methane, a naturally occurring 
colorless, odorless and highly 
explosive gas that seeps out of 
coal seams and can build up easi
ly in poorly ventilated mine 
shafts.
In April 1998, a methane explo
sion at a mine in Donetsk, Ukraines 
eastern coal capital, killed 63 coal 
workers. In May 1999, a methane 
blast at another mine in Donetsk 
killed 50 workers.
The number of people killed on 
Saturday was the highest since at 
least before 1080, when 66 miners 
and two rescuers died at the
Gorskaya mine in then-Soviet 
Ukraine.
The country has the worlds high
est coal industry death rate, blamed 
largely on outdated and badly func
tioning equipment and miners 
neglect of safety rules.
At least 274 miners were killed 
last year, down from about 360 in 
1998, and the death figure this year 
stood at 45 before the latest acci
dent.
Groups bring aid 
to Mozambique
MAPUTO, Mozambique (AP)  
Blessed with a full day of sunshine 
and receding waters, aid groups 
on Saturday stepped up food 
deliveries to 1 million flood vic
tims in central and southern 
Mozambique.
With previously impassable roads 
opening up, the international relief 
effort was expected to gain pace. In 
the largest overland delivery so far, 
trucks carrying 52 tons of food left 
the Indian Ocean port of Beira and 
headed south to the hard-hit city of 
Save.
Aid officials welcomed the rare 
stretch of sunny skies. Heavy rains 
during the past few days had 
grounded many helicopters and 
clogged some key roads, and food 
supplies were beginning to back up 
in warehouses.
Weve been able to supply the 
key areas, and with the good weath
er we plan to fan out to more remote 
places, said Lindsey Davies, a 
spokeswoman for the World Food 
Program.
The flooding that hit 
Mozambique last month was the 
worst here on record. Walls of water 
from overflowing rivers submerged
towns, and thousands of people 
spent days clinging to trees and 
rooftops with no food or drinking 
water.
Up to 1 million people were dri
ven from their homes or saw their 
crops and other property destroyed. 
Some aid groups fear that thou
sands were killed. An accurate 
count is unlikely until the waters 
finish receding, but to date only a 
few hundred have been confirmed 
dead.
At least a quarter million flood 
victims remained in 89 makeshift 
camps in central and southern 
Mozambique on Saturday, two 
weeks after the floodwaters peaked.
Officials said there was a press
ing need to move relief supplies 
overland. Many flood victims were 
still stranded Saturday in hard-toreach rural areas, forcing relief 
teams to rely heavily on heli
copters  an expensive and ineffi
cient way to deliver food. The helicopters, supplied mostly by the 
militaries of several Western 
nations, can carry only a few tons 
of food per trip.
A total of 59 aircraft are taking 
part in the aid operation and 
more than 2,200 international 
personnel are in Mozambique. 
About half are from foreign mili
taries. Air Force Major Joseph 
Wehrle, the commander of the 
U.S. relief mission, said Saturday 
that U.S. officials had been asked 
to send high-tech airplanes over 
remote areas of Mozambique in 
search of more stranded flood vic
tims.
My sense is that everyone is ner
vous, Wehrle told reporters in the 
capital, Maputo. This is a very big 
country and there could be some 
folks somewhere. We wont know 
until we look.
T4./56u 4I e/sday /5 
pml t4if6y nw6Ia6
e/jj cgR bFF
HEADACHES?
e4aju f6 ./ay6u fS di6yyai6 6h6i56u fS 56 Qiu r4j/iy 4i xUWCEr vvkP 
t4i / .4Iyaj5/5Q4I 4I xQyu4s 445 z6s4w/j Qj6 S4a Sleep. e/jj 
nj24Iy4 nP e4y5/ CP rP CP /Iu z4f6i54 eP rQ.Q6I'Q CP rP CP /5if?
681-3737
CiP e4y5/ /Iu CiP rQ.Q6I'Q /w6 yai3Q./jjS 
i6s4w6u 4ay/Iuy ad4I 4ay/Iuy 42 Qsd/.56u Qyu4s 5665P
Student Discounts
50% OFF ALL SERVICES
DENTIST ON CAMPUS
W6iwQ.6y /w/Qj/fj6D
Emergencies
Bleaching
Fillings
Crowns
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Bridges Cleaning
Root Canals Gum Treatment
Consults Retainers
Bonding Wisdom Teeth Extractions

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  MARCH 13, 20003
Forbes Avenue welcomes Jewish center
Shaina McGrath/Photo Staff Manager
Mardi Gras in Pittsburgh: The Student Activities Board sponsored a Mardi Gras festival last Tuesday 
in the UC. Students enjoyed free food, music, and fortune readings in the spirit of the celebration.
Computing services improves network
NETWORK, from page 1 
Dartmouth University. This digital 
media is now possible because of 
the physical upgrades, said Bartel.
Computing Services said that 
they have been trying to minimize 
. interruptions in service to the cam
pus. According to Bartel, they have 
tried to pick days and times that are 
off-peak. They have also attempted 
.to let campus administrators know 
.in advance when disruptions may 
.occur.
t Some students, however, feel 
that there wasnt enough done to  
warn the campus about possible 
inconveniences. Although I do 
recall long ago receiving forwarded 
.email that network upgrades were 
planned, I do not recall those 
emails indicating exactly what 
.needed to be done to accommodate 
he changes.... Judging by the 
number of people who had similar 
^problems, I suspect I was not 
alone, said David Rode, a doctoral 
student in the Department of Social 
and Decision Sciences and the head 
JA for Decision Analysis and 
.fDecision Support System^. Rode 
experienced problems with the net
work upgrades when homework 
solutions to his class werent acces
sible before an exam. Rode suggest
ed having a liason between depart
ments and doing the upgrades dur
ing the summer when fewer stu
dents would be affected.
3 Given the magnitude of th 
vchange, I would classify our prob
lems as quite minor, said Kimberly 
Jordan, the Director of Computing, 
H&SS, in response to Rodes com.plaints. Computing Services pro
vided very good publicity of the 
upgrade, as well as support to us 
.when we needed it, both before 
-and during the upgrade.
- We do the best we can do to 
.have the minimum impact on stu
dents, said Trung Phan, a senior 
civil engineering student consul
tant at the computer help center.
As far as the effect on personal 
computers, Futhey said that if any
thing needs to be changed it would 
probably just involve configuration 
changes or rebooting. It takes 
about an hour for campus services 
to propagate through and com
plete, but a whole day for external 
services to finish.
There are also plans to increase 
the availability of wireless Andrew, 
the high-speed wireless network 
installed on campus. The concept 
was started as a research project in 
1994 to support the wireless 
research initiative on campus. The 
connection has now been setup in 
15 buildings and has close to 1000 
users. By the end of the month 
Computing Services hopes to be on 
a steady schedule of one building 
every other week. The first targets 
were the academic buildings, 
which are basically completed, and 
now connections are being made in 
the administrative buildings also. 
By the end of the semester they 
hope to have the main campus cov
ered.
We could be a model for other 
universities.... We are thinking 
[wireless is] where things are 
going. said Futhey. While only 
two years ago, the cards were 
around $800, the price has shrunk 
to $116 for one model. Futhey said 
she believed the price would' con
tinue to fall as wireless technology 
becomes more of a commodity, 
much like modems.
Another recent upgrade includes 
an increased quota for students on 
the Andrew file system, from 25 
megabytes to a current amount of 
50 megabytes. The Cyrus or email 
quota is currently at 20 megabytes, 
but increases can be requested. 
The basic reasons for the improve
ments was basic need and declining 
price, but even more than those we 
now have a new. backup system
that removes the previous con
straints, said Futhey.
Some students said they appreci
ate the quota upgrades from com
puting services. It is nice to have 
more space to keep files that I can 
access from anywhere, said 
Jonathan Bradbury, sophomore 
electrical and computer engineer. 
Also I know they will be safe since 
they are backed up on a regular 
basis.
Computing Services also recently 
completed the final step in the 
upgrades for dialup access. Any 
user dialing the remote access 
phone numbers will now be con
nected to the same pool of upgrad
ed servers instead of being spread 
out among multiple different 
machines.
The school has also received sev
eral grants allowing for experimen
tal usage of many new technolo
gies. One example includes two 
classes totaling around 150 stu
dents that were given HewlettPackard handheld devices with 
Lucent Technologies wireless cards. 
One class is an upper-level comput
er science/engineering design class 
that is looking at applications for 
the devices that would benefit stu
dents. The other class is using 
them to participate in interactive 
communication during lectures.
There is also a new Virtual 
Cluster on campus. Business 
Administration majors are able to 
obtain one of 25 laptops in 
exchange for a CMU ID. They can 
then take them into a nearby lec
ture hall in GSIA to form the virtual 
cluster.
In addition to network upgrades, 
Computing Services is offering a 
Spring 2000 session of Computer 
Learning Workshops, improve
ments to CSW classes, and the 
Digital Subscriber Line (DSL) to 
help off-campus students receive a 
better connection.
NEED A GOOD 
APARTMENT FOR 
NEXT YEAR?
CALL US NOW! 
795 - 5845
E.S. MANAGEMENT HAS BEAUTIFUL STUDIO 1, 2, 
3, & 4 BEDROOM APARTMENTS IN NORTH 
OAKLAND, SHADYSIDE, SQUIRREL HILL, AND 
FRIENDSHIP.
FOR EXAMPLE:
North Oakland: 218 & 222 North Craig Street
1, 3, & 4 Bedrooms, completely renovated luxury apartments 
with c/Air, parking, laundry in Bldg. $550-$ 1350+
Shadyside: 626 Maryland Avenue
2, 3, & 4 BR, completely renovated large luxury apartments, 
HW floors, a/c, g/d, d/w, laundry in building, & decorative fire 
place. $995-$ 1350+All good apartments are rented early CALL E.S. MANAGEMENT TODAY!
HILLEL, from page 1 
one of its rooms, compared to 
Hillels current second floor walk-up 
facility which can only hold about
20 people in total and is not handi
capped accessible.
Students also share these aspira
tions and anticipate the growth of 
the organization.
I hope that the new center will 
help to boost activity from CMUs 
Jewish community. I hope it will be 
a place for students to go in between 
classes, or to meet with people, or to 
find out about activities in the com
ing weeks. It will be much more 
inviting than the space which Hillel 
now occupies, said Katie Warren, a 
first year H&SS undeclared student 
and first-year Representative to 
CMUs Hillel Student board.
According to Rothschild, these 
goals have been incorporated into
the buildings design.
The building has been designed 
to be an open and welcoming build
ing and hopefully can serve as a bea
con, to attract students from both 
campuses, said Rothschild, who 
also spoke of how the buildings 
architecture is designed to reflect 
aspects of both campuses.
The building is going to be archi
tecturally highlighted at night so the 
top of the building will be lit similar 
to the Cathedral of Learning and the 
top of Hamerschlag Hall. 
Symbolically, it will act as a bridge 
between the two campuses in the 
evening, said Rothschild. I think 
the exterior design is important. We 
tried to study existing institutional 
buildings in the area like the 
Carnegie Museum, Mellon Institute, 
Soldiers and Sailors Hall, and other 
notable buildings and try to make
the building relate to those but 
interpret it with modern details, he 
said.
At the luncheon where the build
ing was announced, Edgar M. 
Bronfman, chairman of the Board of 
Governors of Hillel and of The 
Seagram Company Ltd., and Eric, 
Perelman, president of the Jewish, 
University Center, joined local Hillel 
leaders to announce the project and 
discuss an ongoing $3.5 million 
fund raising campaign.
According to Wiseman, more than 
$2.1 million has been pledged to the 
project to date, including a $1 mil
lion challenge grant from campaign 
steering committee members Rose 
and Ed Berman. If fundraising, 
efforts continue to go well, said 
Wiseman, construction will begin in 
May and once started should take 
about 9 months to complete.
friWVo-l""
Daniel Wiseman 
Executive Director
wvyw.hiileljuc.org
Nuri Miller/Junior Staff
Plans are currently being made by the Hillel organization to build a new Jewish University Center on Forbes Avenue.
LINCC works to unite CMU campus
LINCC, from page 1
Over the summer I worked on a constitution and 
developed ways to find out how much interest there was 
for such an organization, said Bleier. On the first day of 
the fall 1999 semester, Bleier sent letters about the orga
nization to students and invited them to attend a meet
ing. LINCC has grown significantly since the Womens 
Center, Spirit, and the Japanese Culture Club (JCC) are 
included in the 15 student groups currently part of 
LINCC..
LINCC is a good idea because organizations tend to 
get wrapped up in their own activities and forget about 
other events. LINCC helps to unite the campus groups, 
said Nicole DeJesus and Daniela Kuhn, first-year mem
bers of Salsa.
. On February 15, 1999, a conference was held at 
Carnegie Mellon for representatives of 20 cultural and 
special interest campus groups. The conference includ
ed two speakers who addressed the issues of intercultural communications. The conference also gave atten
dees a chance to get to know one another better and 
take part in workshops.
LINCC is not limited to cultural groups, nor is it sole
ly for undergraduate organizations. We would like as
many organizations that want to participate to get' 
involved in LINCC. International Relations 
Organization (IRO), a graduate organization, has been' 
an active participant in LINCC from the beginning, said1 
Bleier.
LINCC is currently working on several projects for the* 
future. A campus wide event called the Realize RealEyes Fair is currently the focus for LINCC members. The 
fair would include various ethnic foods, recipes, andpersonal statements.
Bleier also hopes to establish a mentoring program" 
between undergraduate and graduate organizations' 
such as Salsa and the Latin American Graduate Studentr 
Organization.
We [LINCC] want to bring unity to the campus as a 
whole. By working with the other groups on campus we 
think this is possible, said Bleier, who has made plans 
for an exchange program between organizations. The 
exchange program would work by assigning two or 
three students from each organization to attend differ
ent student sponsored campus events. Students from 
different organizations could meet and become 
informed about others, said Bleier.
LINCC will hold its first general body meeting on 
Tuesday, March 15th in the University Center.
Something to 
smile about!
Ask about our CMCI 
Dental Plan!
Gentle Airjet Dentist 
Prompt Emergency Car 
Personal
Call 681-8011
10% Courtesy for CMC Students and Faculty 
Take the CMCI shuttle to our front door  200 North Craig Street

---------------------------------------------------

Can't remember what 
happened this weekend?
Buy back your memories
the Order your yearbook today!
nBBfV W vr ABEBrV W -C=?
THISTLE
2000
Why?
Because youre a senior/junior/sophomore/first-year/5th year/grad student (choose one) who wants to 
remember the four years or more that youve spent on this campus. Dont think youll be featured in 
the yearbook? Contact the Thistle to submit a picture of your organization, team, dorm room or event.
Who?
You, your parents, other relatives or anyone can order a yearbook. To avoid duplicate orders, please 
consult other potential buyers (and maybe theyll buy it for you anyway!)
When?
The deadline to order is Friday, March 31. The 2000 Thistle will be shipped to your home address 
late this summer.
How?
To order call 1-800-953-5550 or pick up an order form outside The Thistle office (UC 310).
How much?
The cost of the 2000 Thistle is $49 plus tax. Visa, Mastercard, Discover, American Express, and 
checks made payable to Jostens are accepted for payment.
I still dont understand
Contact us at thistle(2)andrew.cmu.edu or call 412-268-2121.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  MARCH 13, 20005Resignation of Paul Christiano signifies end of an era for CMU
RESIGN, from page 1 
ter to the community. He leaves his 
position as provost with the reputa
tion of Carnegie Mellons academic 
programs at the highest level in our 
history.
[It is] very impressive all the fac
tors he accounts for/ said Nair. He 
has been an agent of change for the 
whole configuration of Carnegie 
Mellon given [our] constraints. He 
has kept them in balance.
Nair and Cohon both emphasized 
that Christiano has helped to ensure 
that the schools resources are distributed fairly throughout the 
undergraduate and graduate pro
grams and throughout the schools 
many academic departments. 
Sometimes people dont realize 
what he does, said Nair.
The focus of the administration 
will now turn towards finding a new 
provost. Universities are better 
served by provosts that come from 
inside, said Cohon. They need to 
be at the crossroads of academics, 
and the person needs to know 
whats going on. Cohon empha
sized that the new provost must
understand CMlFs unique culture as 
well as being a part of it. He went 
on to say that the new provost must 
be respected by the faculty, staff, 
and students of the University. 
Because of his sincerity and ser
vice, Christiano has set a high stan
dard, said Cohon.
Nair said that she thinks the new 
provost needs to understand that 
students are the most important 
part of the University. If you take 
away the students, then everything 
can be done in other places, said 
Nair. Research is important as a
part of learning. People [must] keep 
in mind the balance between intel
lectual leaders versus market fol
lowers. She said that that the new 
provost must make sure that educa
tion does not become a commodity.
[Christiano] realizes that the 
University is a leader versus being a 
player, said Nair. CMU was origi
nally about education.
Kamlet said that the new provost 
must display the same integrity that 
Christiano did towards academic 
duties and the tenure and promo
tion process. Paul always dis
played a tremendous sense of 
integrity in this process, said 
Kamlet. The provost should be 
somebody who is able to balance 
the components and priorities that 
the University has. It is a very com
plicated organization.
Cohon said it is hoped that a new 
provost will be named by summer.
Christiano will return to his home 
department after he takes a sabbat
ical. I am certain that he will be 
generous with his time. He is a 
great asset of the University.
On occasions like this, one would 
like to believe that the ledger has 
been left balanced, said Christiano 
in his letter. I know, however, that 
I have gained much more than I 
have given as provost.
[The resignation] is sad for the 
University, said Kamlet. Paul is a 
tremendous asset. It is a demanding 
job, and it is a well deserved time to 
take a break.
At press time Christiano was out 
of the country and could not be 
reached for comment.
Crime and Incident Report
2/27 DOMESTIC, 2:41 am 
Officers were called to Marybelle 
Apartments to investigate a possible 
domestic situation. Upon arriving, offi
cers were notified that an argument 
had occurred between two males, but 
had since been resolved and one male 
had left. The argument stemmed from 
two of the male residents finding out 
that they were dating the same female. 
No physical contact was made at any 
time and officers escorted the remain
ing male out of the building.
2/29 DISORDERLY CONDUCT,
10:13 pm  During routine crowd 
control outside McConomy Auditorium 
for the showing of the movie Wonder Boys, officers responded to a tip from a 
security guard about an actor taking off 
all of his clothes and mooning the 
patrons waiting in the theater for the 
movie. Officers found the actor hiding 
under a piano just off the stage area in 
McConomy. After IDing the student the 
officers asked why he did it. The actor 
responded that he thought the person 
doing the craziest thing would get a 
large movie poster. The actor was 
issued an internal citation for 
Disorderly Conduct.
3/1 MAINTENENCE 1:43 pm 
The mens rooms on the A and B levels 
of Doherty Hall were checked for any 
existing maintenance conditions. The 
B-level mens room is missing the door 
to the central stall. The A-level mens 
room has two stalls with 3 inch triangu
lar holes cut into them. Physical Plant 
Services was called and carpenters 
were notified in order to fix the situa
tion.
3/3 FIRE REPORT 9:15 pm  An
officer was called to the scene of a burn
ing trash can on the exterior of Resnik 
Hall. He reported visible flames and 
smoke coming from the can. The flames 
were immediately extinguished and no 
damage was done to the exterior of 
Resnick Hall. The fiberglass lid of the 
trash can will need to be replaced.
3/3 OPEN LEWDNESS, 11:38
pm : Campus Police officers 
observed an actor urinating against the 
side of a-fraternity. The actor was issued 
an internal CMU citation for the offense 
and released.
3/6 THEFT, 2:01 pm  Officers 
responded to the Margaret Morrison 
laundry facility to investigate the theft 
of laundry services. Officers discovered 
a single actor using a taped laundry 
token in order to obtain free service. 
The actor claimed that his money was 
locked in a storage locker and he resort
ed to using the altered token to do his 
laundry. Police helped the actor open 
the locker in order to retrieve his wallet 
and then released him.
3/8 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF, 2:37
pm  Officers responded to a report of 
vandalism inside CFA. Upon investiga
tion, it was determined that the 
Architecture Departments 100-yearold hornbosde wooden table was van
dalized by unknown actors. The actors 
had etched mike & dee forever 3-5- 
00"in green marker and purple haze 
in purple marker into the table. 
Enrollment Services was notified and is 
responsible for cleanup.
3/10 INTOXICATION 3:22 am 
A female was found fallen on the 
ground by the runway to Resnik. Her 
boyfriend and friend were attempting 
to help her home after she had 2 or 3 
drinks in celebration of her 21st birth
day, when she fell. CMU EMS arrived 
and assessed the female. She was 
escorted home where her roommate 
promised to look after her.
3/10 DISORDERLY CONDUCT, 
11:17 pm  Police dispatch was noti
fied of a loud party occurring in Donner 
Hall. Officers responded to the scene 
and reported the smell of marijuana. 
The officers then identified themselves 
to the room occupants and began a 
search of the premises. The search 
revealed marijuana and smoking para
phernalia which was taken into tempo
rary evidence. All of the involved actors 
were issued non-traffic citations for dis
orderly conduct.
 Campus Chief of Police James Lapaglia reviews all reports prior to release. Only three people on The Tartan staff see the reports: the Editor-in- Chief the News Editor, and the staffwriter typing the report.
 All personal names of complainants, victims, suspects, and fraternities are omitted from the printed report. Ethnic descriptions and other personal details are given only in the context of complete descriptions.
 Not every incident that occurs is in the report.Compiled by 
Bryan Kaplan
CMU remains uneffected by 
Napster copyright controversy
by Chris MayForum Editor
Free entertainment of nearly 
all sorts instantly at your fin
gertips - what more could you 
ask for? What greater tempta
tion could there be than this? 
Herein lies the dilemma that 
college network administrators 
around the nation are facing 
with the program Napster, 
which offers users a free ser
vice in locating MP3s and other 
digital entertainment quickly 
and efficiently.
Recently, hosts of schools 
have banned Napster from 
their campus network after it 
was found that the program 
was devouring their band
width. Bandwidth is defined as 
the maximum amount of data 
that can be transferred per sec
ond, and this amount is finite, 
which means if one person is 
using it, another person can
not. One student at Gannon 
University in Erie, 
Pennsylvania tied up 85% of 
the Universitys bandwidth by 
downloading and trading 
MP3s.
Any program that transfers 
information uses bandwidth, 
so the problem that arises with 
Napster is that each student 
becomes a server who can 
trade tides that they already 
have. This trading back and
forth creates the bottleneck 
that network administrators 
find disturbing.
In addition to slowing down 
network traffic some network 
administrators are afraid that 
the students using Napster are 
using copyrighted materials 
inappropriately. The Recording 
Industry Association of 
America has brought this point 
to the foreground.
According to Computing 
Services, Napster has not yet 
been found to be a significant 
network issue on campus. They 
said that as long as the software 
is used as the author intended, 
there is no legal issue with copy
right infringement. As for using 
up bandwidth Computing 
Services has monitored the situ
ation and there has not yet 
seemed to be a significant 
impact on the campus network.
However it is still possible 
that Napster will become an 
issue at Carnegie Mellon, for 
legal or computing reasons. 
Steps could entail informing 
the campus community that it 
is not a network friendly pro
gram and banning its use; con
figuring the network to block 
traffic on the default port used 
by the program, or reporting 
users to appropriate education
al and/or enforcement groups, 
depending on the situation, 
said John Lerchey of 
Computing Services.
This is not a unique situation 
at all, the first version of Doom 
was banned at CMU because 
the program performed broad
casts which adversely affected 
network traffic. In other cases 
individual systems have been 
problems by running frequent
ly visited Web sites. Computing 
Services took steps to deal with 
these as well.
The popularity of the Napster 
site has many students con
cerned about measures taken 
to block it. It would be better if 
they just put up a firewall to 
block outgoing traffic instead 
of blocking the port, said 
Steve Davis, a first-year student 
in electrical and computer 
engineering, when asked how 
the program should be dealt 
with if it becomes a problem. 
Other students disagree with 
this proposition. I dont like 
the idea of port blocking, the 
network was designed to work 
with unrestricted ports, said 
Mark Schreiber, a first-year stu
dent in computer science.
Computing Services said 
they realize that there are 
many programs which could 
have a negative impact on net
work traffic, and they have 
taken a stance on Napster such 
that they will see if it has a seri
ous negative impact on the 
campus network, and act 
accordingly, as they would with 
any program.
News Briefs
Professors earn 
distinguished title of 
university professor
Three professors were recently named University 
Professors, the highest academic distinction faculty 
members can achieve at CMU. The title is given in 
recognition for research, artistic, and literary accom
plishments.
Andres Cardenes, the Dorothy Richard Starling and 
Alexander C. Speyer Jr. professor of music, was one of 
the named professors. Cardenes is the director of violin 
studies in the School of Music and the concertmaster of 
the Pittsburgh Symphony. He has appeared in more 
than 60 major orchestras, playing in such places as 
Hong Kong and Moscow. He has taught at the universi
ty level for over 20 years, in such places as the 
University of Michigan.
In 1996, Cardenes donated his Stradivarius violin to 
the School of Music to be used by the schools most gift
ed violin students for auditions, performances, and 
competitions. In 1997, he became the first faculty mem
ber in the School of Music to hold a fully-endowed pro
fessorship.
Richard Fruehan, the U.S. Steel professor of materi
als science and engineering and co-director of the 
Center for Iron and Steelmaking Research, is known for 
his expertise in thermodynamics, kinetics of iron and 
steel-making reactions, and the kinetics of interfacial 
reactions relevant to the production of iron and steel. 
Fruehan participated in a study on the competitiveness 
of the U.S. steel industry, which later led to the pub
lishing of a book on the topic.
Fruehan earned his bachelors (1963) and doctoral 
(1966) degrees from the University of Pennsylvania. In 
1980, Fruehan joined the Materials Science and 
Engineering Department as a professor after spending
13 years as a scientist and researcher. He has received 
five patents and is the author of two books.
Susan Henry, professor of biological sciences and 
dean of the Mellon College of Science, is the first 
woman at CMU to earn the rank of University Professor 
and is one of the few women in the country to be dean 
of a science collage. Henry is known for her research in 
the biological sciences, her development of two scien
tific patents, and her devotion to mentoring CMU 
undergraduate and graduate students.
Henry became the head of the Biological Sciences 
Department at CMU in 1987 and was named dean of 
MCS in 1991. She earned her bachelors (1968) degree 
in zoology from the University of Maryland and her 
doctoral (1971) degree in genetics from he University 
of California at Berkeley.
Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center (PSC) and a 
physics student at the University of Pittsburgh. Emil 
Sanielevici, 20, was the last of the five people who was 
shot Wednesday, the (date) and the third to die. He 
suffered head and brain injuries and died Thurdsay 
(date) at UPMC Presbyterian.
Hundreds gathered last Monday to pay tribute to the 
slain student at the Heinz memorial chapel in Oakland.
Student arrested for 
drug possession
On Thursday, March 2 at approximately 3:50 am 
Pittsburgh Police arrested a CMU student for delivery 
and possession of controlled substances. An undercov
er detective from the Pittsburgh police met with the 
student at 3:30 am and successfully bought drugs from 
the student in a fraternity house on campus.
Representatives of the fraternity, who wished to 
remain anonymous, denied that the fraternity had any 
involvement in the matter. They also said that they did 
not know what she was doing in their house, but that 
some brothers from the fraternity know her. There has 
been no link established between the fraternity house 
and the incident.
Weve since asked her not to come back, said one of 
the representatives.
Detective Lange was the only officer involved in the 
arrest, which included 3 other Pittsburgh Police offi
cers from the Narcotics and Vice Unit (NAVU). Lange 
said he did not know details of how information about 
the student had gotten to the Pittsburgh Police. 
According to the Pittsburgh Police report of the inci
dent, the student sold drugs to a detective in the pantry 
area next to the kitchen in the fraternity. The actor stat
ed that she could not get any E (ecstacy) but that she 
had a quarter (marijuana). She removed a plastic 
baggie containing the marijuana and sold it to the offi
cer for $50.00. The student also stated that she would 
get some ecstacy over the weekend.
As she exited the house, the detectives made the 
arrest, but she did not reveal her sources. The 
Pittsburgh Police officers, nor the student involved 
could be reached for comment.
Professors join elite
Chemical Engineering Professor Ignacio Grossman 
and electrical and computer engineering and computer 
science Professor Dan Siewiorek have been elected to 
the National Academy of Engineering (NAE).
Being elected to the position is one of the highest 
honors within engineering, and is bestowed upon those 
that have made important contributions to engineering 
theory and practice.
Police warn students 
about bike theft
Campus police are trying to warn students of the dangers 
of. bike theft on campus, especially in the spring.
With spring in the air, and more students outside 
playing frisbee, walking around, and generally being 
more carefree, Campus Police would like to remind stu
dents that one thing that they shouldnt be carefree 
about is securing their bicycles.
Last April and May, a total of twelve bikes were 
stolen, with an estimated combined value of $6960, 
says Officer Ronald Pudlowski of Campus Police.
The first step towards adequately protecting your 
bike, says Pudlowski, is obtaining a good quality U-lock. 
While many students choose to secure their bikes with 
cable locks, most thiefs target these bikes for theft and 
simply cut the cables to steal the bikes.
The second step in keeping your bike safe is register
ing it with Campus Police. On April 5, from noon until 
3 pm, a Bike Registration Program will be conducted in 
the UC, with Campus Police representatives offering 
opportunities to register your bike. The process is free 
and quick, according to Pudlowski, and is an excellent 
deterrent against theft.
Pitt student slain in 
shooting
One of the victims of the recent shooting in 
Wilkinsburg, PA was a student employee of the
SDC elects new 
leading officers in 
recent election
aryan ivapian/rnoto tanor
Ko Nakatsu was elected SDC President last Wednesday.
Last Wednesday, March 1, Student Dormitory Council 
(SDC) held their annual officer elections. Ko Nakatsu 
was elected president and Morgan Linton was elected 
vice president for 2000-2001. Nakatsu is a sophomore 
biology major and Linton is a first-year student in H&SS. 
They will be replacing senior mechanical engineering 
major Earl Crane and Justin Elker, a junior in social & 
decision sciences.
Nakatsu served as Properties chair this year and 
Linton was the National Conference Committee chair.
Other SDC members have been nominated for other 
positions to be chosen later, including films, buggy and 
communications.[Ed Note: Ko Nakatsu is a senior staff photographer for The Tartan]
Compiled by 
Ish Harshawat and 
Sara Stille

---------------------------------------------------

Forum
13 March 2000THE TARTANPage 6
New provost should preserve 
Christianos princples, legacy
As Paul Christiano, provost of the 
University for the last nine years, leaves 
his position to resume teaching in the 
Civil Engineering Department, the 
University has begun the process of find
ing a suitable replacement. Christiano 
will leave behind a legacy of excellence. 
In order for it to continue, it is imperative 
that the new provost have many of the 
same qualities and concerns as 
Christiano, as well as many new ideas to 
offer. It is also important that the student 
body be able to actively participate in the 
new provosts selection.
CMU saw some of its greatest improve
ments in research and academics during 
Christianos time as provost. He played a 
large role in creating the Office of 
Technology Transfer which has expanded 
the impact of research done on campus. 
He also made sure that departments had 
adequate resources and proper control of 
them. He has been notably fair with 
tenure and professorship processes, 
including fairly promoting faculty to pro
fessor status. He has a breadth of experi
ence and insight that allowed him to make 
important decisions while keeping the 
entire Universitys interests at heart.
In choosing a new provost, the adminis
tration must bear in mind these accom
plishments and select someone who will 
maintain the same degree of open-mindedness and interest in the University and 
community as a whole. It is important 
that the new provost be well-rounded: 
and be able to look at education from dif
ferent angles. The new provost should be 
able to balance the interests of the differ
ent colleges at CMU, for instance. Several 
other issues must be balanced, including a
pedagogical approach that emphasizes 
not just research at the graduate level, but 
a thorough undergraduate education as 
well. The provost should be willing to pro
mote more give-and-take between depart
ments, including more interdepartmental 
majors. Overall, the new provost should 
fit well into the educational scheme of the 
University.
For these reasons, it would be highly 
beneficial if the new provost were some
one who is already a member of the 
University faculty or staff. Someone with 
years of experience at the University will 
be more able to recognize its weaknesses, 
such as the excess of attention paid to 
research over education, and will be able 
to promote its strengths in the same fash
ion.
The new provost will directly impact 
the lives of the students in the University, 
and because of this, they should be 
allowed a say in the new provosts selec
tion. A town meeting involving the entire 
campus community would be an informa
tive first step in which the school could 
explain its goals in selection, and the stu
dents could offer input as to the areas on 
which they would like the new provost to 
focus. Perhaps the list of candidates 
should be open to the campus, in order to 
promote more interest in the appoint
ment.
While the University will suffer a loss 
with the resignation of Christiano, with 
adequate student and faculty involve
ment, it can make sure that the next 
provost will continue Christianos stan
dards of excellence and prepare the 
University for some of its best years to 
come.
Solicitors create disturbance, 
agitate students on-campus
Recently, on-campus solicitors such as 
AT&T, Citibank, and other credit card com
panies, have started to accost students. 
Their representatives, manning information 
tables in public places on campus, approach 
students to peddle their products and ser
vices, but show little respect for personal 
space and privacy.
Often, when students walk by solicitor 
tables, they are repeatedly asked to sign up 
for a service. Many representatives come off 
as aggressive and cause students to either 
feel uncomfortable or avoid the area entire
ly. Recent examples of this include Citibank, 
who have tried to sell their four credit-card 
solution to students in the UC. A simple 
inquiry by a representative is not enough. 
Instead, the representative will shout at the 
student in an unrelenting and inappropriate 
manner.
Students should be able to relax when on 
campus, but these solicitors have hindered 
their ability to do so. Particularly when the 
days get warmer, many on campus prefer to 
socialize on campus, not having to worry 
about being interrupted by rude salespeo
ple. Additionally, when students are 
stressed out about work, the last thing they 
want to encounter is an overbearing sales
person.
The presence of salespeople is not entire
ly without its advantages  solicitors are 
making products and services more accessi
ble to students who may not otherwise seek
them out. But solicitors should allow stu
dents to approach the information tables on 
their own without being harassed.
For example, certain product vendors 
such as the CD and book dealers choose not 
to accost students. They have always used 
their products to speak for themselves. 
Students choose to approach these tables of 
their own volition. Of course the solicitors 
are just doing their jobs. They are working 
in the spirit of competition. However, the 
way they are going about it is inappropriate 
for a campus environment.
For solicitors to come onto campus, they 
must pay a fee to the University, since their 
presence is a form of advertising. But the 
University needs to consider whether this 
form of advertising is in the best interest of 
students. While some students benefit from 
having the solicitors on campus, those who 
do not buy what they are selling are only 
annoyed.
Concerned students who have problems 
with certain solicitors should contact Dean 
of Student Affairs, Michael Murphy, or the 
University Center administration. The 
administration and Student Senate must 
take note of the impact these solicitors have 
on students and the campus. Senate should 
discuss this topic and consider whether stu
dents are profiting from the solicitation. 
Solicitors should be made to coriiply to 
higher standards, or they should not be 
allowed on campus.
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellons Student Newspaper Since igo6 
EDITORIAL BOARD
ISH HARSHAWAT, Editor-in-Chief
SETH MANDEL, Managing Editor 
SARA STILLE, News Editor 
CHRISTOPHER MAY, Forum Editor 
CHRISTOPHER CHUNG, Sports Editor 
JOANNA SMILEY, Arts & Living Editor
* SRIRAM GOLLAPALLI, Science & Technology Ed. 
BRAD GRANTZ, Business Editor 
GREG N0FI, Entertainment Editor 
JUSTIN SUISSA, Art Editor 
BRYAN KAPLAN, Photo Editor 
MICHAEL ZIMMER, Dossier Design Editor 
LAURA MARTIN, Dossier Co-Literary Editor 
JOSEPH TAGUE, Dossier Co-Literary Editor 
JENNIFER LIU, Advertising Manager 
BALAJI SARPESHKAR, Copy Manager 
BLAKE ENGEL, Personnel Manager 
LANCE BROWN, Co-Production Manager 
CHRIS MESSINA, Co-Production Manager
ASHA PATHAK, Business Manager 
KAI ZHENG, Systems Manager 
BETTY KIM, Darkroom Manager 
MATT BRUN, Special Projects Manager 
ASEEM GUPTA, Webmaster 
SHAINA MCGRATH, Photo Staff Manager 
LAINE TOWEY, Assistant News Editor 
BETH POWELL, Asst. Entertainment Editor 
GABRIEL SABOURN, Asst. Art Editor 
LILY AHN, Asst. Advertising Manager
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS 
Kristine Andreassen, Kevin Babbitt, Elaine Boland, 
Anthony Chao, Behnam Farahpour, Bradley Feam, 
Rebecca Fribush, Derek Greentree, Cassandra 
Knight, Lorelei Laird, Lisette Miller-Dixon, 
Jonathan Pearce, Anne Ray, Brian Smith, Nathan 
Steinwald
Letters to the Editor
Fraternity fight clarified
Editor:
In response to the article published in the 
February 21, 2000 Tartan entitled Brawl 
erupts on Quad the members of Kappa 
Sigma wish to make a few corrections and 
additions as to the details of the evening of
February 18, 2000.
The number reported in the Tartan of 
75-100 students in front of the house is 
false. There were in fact only 20-25 stu
dents on Kappa Sigma grounds.
Also we would like to reiterate that no 
member of our house ever left our porch, 
was injured, or arrested. The situation was 
handled responsibly and never erupted
Justin Sulsja/Art Editor
into a brawl as reported by the article.
Richie DiFranco 
President
Kappa Sigma Fraternity
Editors Note: The report filed with CMU Police indicated there were 75-100 students, although it may have been incorrect.
Primary season slams shut on free thinkers
Christopher May
Last Tuesday voters from around the 
nation gathered together to engrave the 
following in the annals of American histo
ry: Here lie the insurgent 2000 cam
paigns, may they rest in peace. Indeed the 
only thing supfer about Super Tuesday 
was how well the establishment ground the 
upstart Senators McCain and Bradley into 
the dust. I cant say that Ive supported 
either of these candidates, since McCain is 
too far to the right for 
me, and Bradley is too 
radical. However, I can 
say that when compared 
with the blatant demagoguery of Vice President 
A1 Gore and Governor 
Bush the relative fresh
ness and truthfulness of 
the rebel candidates was 
a novelty that is now 
depressingly lost to this 
nation.
I think its a testament 
to the cynicism and apa
thy currently strangling 
American politics that 
Senator McCain was able 
to generate 4.3% more 
voter turnout than lat 
year. This is more than 
has been seen since 1964.
As Curtis Gans, director 
of the Committee for the 
Study of the American 
Electorate said Thursday,
McCain mobilized alien
ated independents and 
disaffected Democrats 
into Republican pri
maries. He spawned an 
organizational counter
revolution from Christian conservatives 
and regular Republicans
People were simply tired of the same old 
political machines turning out their puppet 
men to bow down to the special interests 
and the factions. McCain stood up against 
the extreme right wing of the party, and 
both McCain and Bradley fought against 
the core of their party who didnt want to 
stir up trouble.
The message of the turnout is that 
theres a lot of alienation out there, partic
ularly among the independents, Gans 
said. It's precisely the opposite of eupho
ria. It was unhappy people looking for 
hope.
Im not quite sure that its unhappiness. 
Im more inclined to believe that people
latch onto a leader. A person who is willing 
and able to take the reins and lead a nation 
somehow seems like a prerequisite. In the
ory this is precisely the man who should 
always be elected president, but unfortu
nately the two-party system manufactures 
wooden dummies who speak out of both 
sides of their mouths in order to lure both 
the majorities and the special interests.
If one looks at Bushs visit to Bob Jones 
University, I doubt that Governor Bush is 
either anti-Catholic or racist, but, I also 
doubt his competence. However, even 
though he does not approve of their beliefs 
he was eager to hide behind a shield of 
silence to get the nomination. If Governor 
Bush does not like the things people do at
places like that he should either not speak 
there or he should make his views clear. 
Everyone has a right to their own views, 
but a president, a leader, is obligated to tell 
people what his views are and act on them.
Caretaker presidents have never been 
much loved in American history, and it is 
impossible to make lasting change without 
annoying people. Some people will always 
benefit from the status quo, and people 
always have things to gain that will hurt 
the majority. It is the duty of every elected 
official: . President, Senator, House 
Representative, Governor etc. to represent 
their views, and stand up to the special 
interests and the extremists. A president 
must not allow special interests to even 
think that they can make policy. Presidents
are policy makers who should act on their 
own judgement and on the will of the 
majority. These are not people who should 
be puppets of powerful men.
Governor Bush and Vice President A1 
Gore should take a lesson from the McCain 
campaign. People saw a leader in Senator 
McCain, and people switched party lines to 
vote for him. In every state he won handsdown in a three-way comparison with Bush 
and Gore, and he obliterated Bush if the 
general electorate was allowed in the poll. 
Clearly the man was a popular candidate, 
because he spoke his mind, and he wasnt 
incredibly afraid to annoy people who he 
didnt agree with.
That is the lesson that American politics 
needs to learn. A leader 
must understand that in 
order to lead people he 
needs to annoy some people 
that he doesnt agree with. 
McCain has proven that you 
dont have to pander, and 
indeed that sort of politics 
will hurt you in the current 
politicial climate.
Bush tried to absorb 
McCains image without 
behaving as McCain did. He 
called himself the reformer 
with results. He tried to 
point out the irony of 
McCain fundraisers when 
McCain was fighting the 
iron triangle. However 
George Bush has submitted 
to the will of the extremists, 
as at Bob Jones, over and 
over again. Additionally, he 
has tens of millions of dol
lars of results to prove just 
how genuine a finance 
reformer he is. It also 
poignantly suggests just 
how little power corporate 
special interests may have 
over him.
Gore too will try to take 
McCains mantle, but this is equally hypo
critical. Gore has his experiences in the 
current administration, as well as random 
images of Buddha that show up if he 
attempts to portray himself as a reformer. 
At best he can try the Im not quite as 
bought as Bush attitude, though that is 
debatable.
Unfortunately the current party system 
has killed all who might actually lead 
nation. All we little people can say to this 
choice being thrust on us is: The Rebellion 
is dead; long live The Empire.
Christopher May is a first-year student in SHS. He welcomes all responsible replies to his piece.
Gabriel Saboum/Assistant Art Editor
Campus traditions cause students reflections
Sean Mintus
The things I do for you people ... the 
famed Carnegie Mellon fence sat unpaint
ed for well over two months, a testament to 
either the inefficiency with which our 
school performs repairs, or the general 
apathy and laziness of our student body.
Perhaps both. This lack of action motivat
ed me to see something done about the 
abandonment of our universitys most 
famous twenty-foot, fence-shaped land
mark.
See FENCE, page 9

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  MARCH 13. 2000
How do you feel about the visibility of organizations?
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Since l$o6
SENIOR STAFF
Andy Francis, Emily Landes, Rim 
Svarcas, Koichiro Nakatsu
STAFFWRITERS 
Megan Adriance, Neil Babra, Thaddeus 
Billman, Grant Catton, Cliff Chien, Rob 
Cullen, Donny Debarr, Elizabeth Dodson, 
Derek Dreyer, Frank J. Fleming, Colt 
Foutz, Heather Frantz, William-Nil 
Guzy, LaRita Hamilton, Rosie Jones, 
Rachel Kingery, Cynthia Kos, Eunice 
Liew, Katie Kowall, Matthew Lariken, 
Erin Lucas, Sean Mintus, Peter Patterson, 
Jennifer Petrini, Srinivas Pullela, 
Anwesha Rakshit, Jennifer Resick, Gail 
Ronen, Lynn Tao, Guido Zarrella
ART
Matthew Blum, Jamie Divine, Adam 
Grossi, Reagan Heller, Alissa Taylor "
COMICS
Martin Hock, Joe Hocking, James 
Kenney, Tom Lin, Chris Rugen
PHOTO
Katie Aerni, Anthony DAuria, Matthew 
Lanken, Michael Raisman, Peter Wang
DARKROOM
Stephanie Chow, Cam Crews, Amy 
Solana, Peter Wang, Laura Wetzel '
PRODUCTION 
Gopi Flaherty, Sara Henneberge, Serena 
Lam
COPY
Stacey Becker, Joyce Boss, Christopher 
Domfeld, Claire Jauregui, Lisa Ferrugia, 
Larissa Kasian, Kristin Lala, Matthew 
McHenry, Emma Rehm, Julie Watt
JUNIOR STAFF 
Abhyudaya Agrawal, David Anderson, 
Nicholas Bonaddio, Joseph Carrier, 
Michael Castellana, Krissy Choi, Michael 
Cook, Dave del Rosario, Shion 
Deysarkar, Emily Gensheimer, Jay 
Huang, Bill Jerome, Douglas Jones Jr, 
Tim Lo, Nuri Miller, Bhumika Muchhala, 
Damian Olesnycky, Vijay Palaparty, Jodi 
Poniewaz, Karthik Ramachandran, 
Christian Reed, Adam Retchless, 
Domenic Senger-Schenck, Marissa 
Staller, Adam Steele, Sabrina Small, 
Matthew Trentacoste, Huiya Xu, Sheila 
Wang
The Tartan is the student newspaper, of 
Carnegie Mellon University. It is a weekly 
newspaper published by students during the 
fall and spring semesters, at no cost to mem
bers of the University community. It is print
ed by Western Pennsylvania Printing, Inc. 
Subscriptions are available for the semester 
or academic year. The editorials appearing at 
the beginning of the opinion section are the 
official opinion of The Tartan editorial board. 
Columns and political cartoons are the opin
ions of individual creators. The Tartan 
reserves the right to reject or condense any 
column or political cartoon. Letters to the 
Editor are opinions of authors who are usu
ally, but not necessarily, members of the 
University community. A letter intended.for 
publication must be signed and include the 
writer's address and phone number for veri
fication. Names may be withheld upon 
request. The Tartan requests that letters be 
no longer than 350 words. The Tartan 
reserves the right to condense or reject any 
letter. Letters to the Editor must be submit
ted by 5 pm the Thursday before publica
tion. Copyright  2000 by The Tartan. The 
Tartan editorial board reserves the right to 
withhold from publication any copy it deems 
unfit for publication. Office: University 
Center Room 314. Phone: 412/268-2lTl. 
Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/Carnegie 
Mellon University/Pittsburgh, PA 15213- 
3890.
Email: tartan@andrew.cmu.edu 
Funded in part by your Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress 
ISSN#:0890-3107. The 
Tartan is a member of the 
Associated Press.
A PERSONS OPINION
Compiled by Christopher May 
Photos by Behnam Farahpour
Pervasive materialism 
invades campus,
Jodi Lynn Poniewaz
The topics of discussion at CMU 
have never struck me as especially 
varied; most talks can be boiled 
down to either job stuff or technical 
stuff. Ive never really found myself 
having much to contribute to either 
topic, but Ive found myself lately 
with a lot to think about concerning 
the former.
I used to feel something akin to 
jealousy when I heard other kids 
talking about how much money 
theyd be making at the internship 
they just signed on for. Certainly, it 
must be nice to make eighteen dol
lars an hour and be given a rental 
car and apartment to boot. But 
there arent many jobs like that that 
I can apply for with a partially fin
ished psych degree and an assort
ment of random skills. Need a 
sweater or balloon animal or an oil 
change? I can take care of that. But 
ask me about Java or Unix or Web 
design, and all youll get is a blank 
stare.
I cant rely on past experiences, 
either. Ive been working as a desk 
attendant for the last 4 years; my 
resume also boasts of such spectac
ular occupations as maid, car wash 
girl, and porn store clerk. Just last 
week, I was turned down for a job 
as a research assistant. Maybe they 
didnt want to hire a fidgeter with 
inky hands and green fingernails. 
Maybe their idea of interview attire 
was not Birkenstocks and overalls. I 
really cant say. At any rate, I wasnt 
especially upset, because I didnt 
want the job. I merely figured it 
would be a good way to put myself 
on the same level as all my friends 
who have real jobs, and to get expe
rience so I could someday get 
future jobs I dont really want. 
Realizing this made me want to 
step back and scream, loudly. I do 
not want my life to consist of trying 
hard to get jobs I dont want just so 
I can make more money than I real
ty need to live
off of.
At this point, one might question 
what I am doing in college, if I cant 
get a real job and dont really want 
one anyway. Good question. Let me 
know if you find an answer. All I 
know is, I want to do something 
useful with my life, and college 
doesnt seem to be getting me 
there. I want to do something that 
will make somebody say, Gee, Jodi
 thanks! Id like to learn to work 
on cars, or maybe be a plumber. I 
understand these are not especially 
ladylike professions, but they 
would certainly make somebody 
grateful. They would also allow me 
a certain measure of independence. 
I do not want to be sitting in some 
office somewhere mindlessly enter
ing data into a computer where my 
only thanks would consist of being 
handed more data to enter, whin
ing and groveling for a day off or 
one morning to sleep in.
Admittedly, I am stumbling 
through life a little differently than 
many CMU students. Here are some 
of my more bizarre confessions: At
home, I use a rotary phone. I do not 
have Internet. I have a TV, but it 
doesnt work. My computer is eight 
years old. My dream car is an old 
Volkswagen. My dream home is in 
the mountains somewhere, sur
rounded by trees, living on lots of 
land using a minimum of electrici
ty. Do I frighten you? Something 
tells me I might. But Ill tell you 
something: The CMU mentality 
frightens me far more.
Last weekend, I went on a back
packing trip in the Laurel 
Highlands. Id always assumed peo
ple did this kind of thing to enjoy 
nature, get a little exercise, and 
generally get away from it all. But 
even in the middle of nowhere, sur
rounded by nothing but woods, I 
got to hear all about internships 
and expected salaries and which 
countries offer the best digital 
something or other and how long 
theyve been offering it. And it 
occurred to me that when CMU stu
dents go to get away from it all, 
they insist on taking it all with 
them. We have become obsessed 
with landing the highest paying 
job, getting the fanciest car, buying 
the newest DVD player, and using 
the clearest cellular service. But in 
the grand scheme of it all, do any of 
these things really matter?
Heres a startling fact: Money 
will not make you happy. But, you 
cant be happy without it. I am not 
delusional enough to think that I 
am going to run off into the woods, 
grow my own corn, sew my own 
clothing from animal hides, and be 
completely self-sufficient. Id tire of 
corn. Id be lonely. And the studentloan people would probably track 
me down before Id even settled in.
But I have realized I am not jeal
ous of my friends who are starting 
their careers with $70,000 a year 
salaries, it isnt the acquisition of 
such jobs that unsettles me; its the 
ambition to do so. I dont seem to 
have it in me to want these things. 
Id like to get out of debt and be able 
to afford food and a place to live. 
Id like to do some sort of work 
where the results are immediately 
visible and gratifying. Then, Id like 
. buy some camping gear of my own, 
and find some people to get out 
there with, and Id be very happy 
indeed. I want nothing to do with 
cities. I want nothing to do with 
meaningless jobs. Ask yourself, as 
you plod away at your high-paying 
job, does your life make you happy? 
Does what you do really matter to 
anyone? Will anyone ever look at 
you and say thanks? Or are you just 
a name on the payroll, maybe given 
an itsy bit of credit somewhere, but 
not really impacting anyones life or 
providing any sort of indispensable 
service? Look around. Some of the 
jobs we mock the most are the jobs 
which would cause us to suffer the 
most if no one did them. What 
would we do if all the garbagemen 
suddenly quit? But if ten people 
quit at Microsoft, most of us would 
never know.
Strange indeed to think about, 
isnt it?
Jodi Poniewaz is a senior Psychology major. She welcomes all responsible replies to her piece.
As anyone passing by the center of campus knows lately student organizations 
such as SDC and WRCT have been very visible. To see what reaction the student 
)ody had to this, we asked the question:
US supports bloody Colombian war
David Anderson
America has a much better tradi
tion of wrecking and consequently 
rebuilding nations than it has a his
tory of building or modifying them, 
r Currently, it appears that the 
United States is preparing to 
: embark upon an ambitious one-billion-dollar-a-year plan to rebuild 
the nation of Colombia into a model 
, of American-style democracy and 
capitalism by supplying the govern
ment of Colombia with stockpiles of 
.advanced American Black Hawk 
helicopters, increased access to 
American . military and -civilian
 intelligence sources, logistical and
 training support and advice from 
military and judicial advisors. The 
stated goal of this incredible 
increase in foreign aid to a histori
cally troubled nation, one whose 
troubles have been at least partially 
caused by actions initiated by the 
United States, ranging from the bla
tant land grab that resulted in 
Panamanian independence to the 
current drug war, is to improve the 
ability of governmental forces in 
destroying cocaine and heroin pro
duction facilities.
Currently, Colombia is in the 
-midst of a generation-long civil war 
between, the government and its 
allied right-wing paramilitary orga
nizations and a left-wing insur
gency called FARC, which 
stands for the Colombian Armed 
Revolutionary Front in Spanish. 
|FARC currently controls, either 
through de facto possession, or 
through de jure secession by the 
government, slightly more than 40 
percent of the territory of this
nation. It has said that an increase 
in American aid to the Colombian 
government would be tantamount 
to a declaration of war. The vast 
majority of the funds not being 
used for direct equipment purchas
es is for training three anti-narcotic 
battalions, or approximately three 
thousand soldiers. These units, as 
the plan envisions, are to be used 
for air-mobile and heliborne hitand-run assaults, search and 
destroy missions against coca and 
poppy fields,- drug labs, transporta
tion routes, and airfields used for 
drug flights. The three battalions 
are to be deployed in the southern 
portions of the country, near areas 
where the FARC is the strongest. 
Official Colombian government 
explanations states , that this is 
where there is the greatest growth 
in cocaine production. The 
Colombian government is planning 
not to deploy these units in areas 
where right-wing paramilitary 
organizations aid and abet narcotic 
production and smuggling organi
zations. The United States appears 
to be willing to fund a campaign of 
counter-insurgency against a large, 
well-equipped, well-financed and 
motivated guerilla group under the 
guise of being an anti-drug cam
paign, while ignoring large areas of 
politically friendly cocaine produc
tion.
The solution being advanced by 
the aid package is basically a mili
tary solution to a much deeper and 
complex problem. We should draw 
upon the lessons of Vietnam, and 
learn that while a person with a gun 
can insure the loyalty of a village 
only as long as that person is within 
gunshot range of the village, a prosperous village in which human 
rights are respected will be much 
more likely to support proAmerican policies. The United 
States should redirect a large por
tion of the proposed aid package 
away from supporting the 
Colombian military, and instead 
direct it to basic economic develop
mental tasks. The civil war has 
destroyed large areas of the 
Colombian economy, and has dislo
cated many people from their jobs 
in the past generation, so for many 
families, growing coca or poppy 
becomes the only realistic option 
for survival. The United States 
should provide a viable, legal and 
profitable option for people who do 
not prefer to grow illegal sub
stances in Colombia. The aid pack
age should be directed at providing 
basic social services such as educa
tion, medical care, job training and . 
sustainable agricultural techniques 
suited for the local environment. 
Any funds devoted to the 
Colombian military should not be 
for expanded operations against 
the FARC, for that is an internal 
Colombian problem which is not a 
threat to the security of the United 
States; instead, military funds 
should be spent in teaching officers 
basic concepts of human rights, 
civilian-military interactions that 
are fair and equitable to all parties 
involved, and a sense of profession
alism. The drug problem is not 
Colombias problem, it is Americas, 
so we should not impose a solution 
that usually causes more damage 
than any positive results upon a 
sovereign and independent nation. 
Instead, we should encourage oth
ers to improve themselves by pro
viding needed support and opin
ions. Through a policy of humanitarianism, both nations will benefit.
David Anderson welcomes all responsible replies to his piece.
Andrew Otte
Junior
ECE
I think its a lot of fun. Its really 
great. Its better to be visible. Free stuff 
is good."
Maggie Haas
First-year student 
Art
Im pretty much indifferent, I didnt 
notice the SDC thing, and I only notice 
WRCT because they play techno.
Owen Silbaugh
Sophomore 
Civil Engineering
I like it. I think its cool, Im going to go 
to Wrestlemania.
Priya Nattama
First-year student 
Computer Science
You can see whats there but you dont 
really know whats going on. There is a lot 
of noise, but you can just pass it up.
Bryan Bailey
Junior
Computer Science
I cant say that I really care much one 
way or the other.

---------------------------------------------------

THE WALL best of both worlds STREET JOURNAL.
In Print and Online, The journal Has it All.
Students who subscribe to The Wall Street Journal also get the Interactive Edition - 
the Web's premier source for news and information - at no additional cost 
That's two Journals for the price of one.
For more info see your professor or call 630-961-4646.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL.
RETIREMENT INSURANCE MUTUAL FUND5 TRU5T SERVICES TUITION FINANCING
Why is TIAA-CREF the 
#1 choice nationwide?
The TIAA-CREF 
Advantage.
Year in and year out, employees at education and 
research institutions have turned to TIAA-CREF. And for 
good reasons:
 Easy diversification among a range of expertly 
managed funds
 Solid performance and exceptional personal service
 Strong commitment to low expenses
 Plus, a full range of flexible retirement income options
With an excellent record of accomplishment for more 
than 80 years,TIAA-CREF has helped professors and staff 
at over 9,000 campuses across the country invest for 
and enjoysuccessful retirements.
Choosing your retirement plan provider is simple. Go 
with the leader:TIAA-CREF.
THE TIAA-CREF 
ADVANTAGE
Proven Performance
Low Expenses
Highly Rated
Quality Service
Trusted Name
Ensuring the future 
for those who shape it.42-2776
www.tiaa-tref.org
pant satisfaction.TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc. distributes CREF certificates and interests in the 71AA Real Estate Account.Teachers Personal Investors 
Services, Inc. distributes the variable component of the personal annuities, mutual funds and tuition savings agreements.TIAA and TIAA-CREF Life Insurance Co. issue insurance 
and annuities. TIAA-CREF Trust Company, FSB provides trust services. Investment products aro not FDIC Insured, mav lose vakio and are not bank guaranteed. 
For more complete Information on our securities products, including charges and expenses, call l 800 842-2776, ext5509, for the prospectuses. Read them carefully before you 
invest or send money.  2000 TIAA-CREF 1/00.
Organri ztowksuewocmp Wbol
The Concert Series at 
Shadyside Presbyterian Church 
presents1
Peter Richard Conte
Organist at Wanamaker's Store
8:00 pm, Friday, 17 March 2000
Admission is free
For more information call 682-4300 
or visit us at www.shadysidepres.org
SATURDAY 
March 18, 2000 
9 a.m. - 4 p.m.
Frick Fine Arts Auditorium 
at the University of Pittsburgh
Learn the New Testament like never before. Walk Thru the Bible 
will give you new insights about key events, people, and concepts 
of Scripture. Retain Bible history, geography, and personal life 
changing applications from Gods Word. Youll enjoy this unique Bible 
learning experience.
Student Registration $10 (advance) 
Non-students $15 (advance)
Registration is $2 more at the door.
Wd4Iy4i6u fSD Baptist Campus Fellowship; Christian Student Fellowship; 
Cornerstone Christian Fellowship; CrossSeekers; InterVarsity Christian Fellowship; 
Lutheran Campus Ministry; Lutheran Student Fellowship; and United Campus Ministry.
Call 687-5707 for more information
You may register by contacting any sponsoring ministry.
INTERNSHIP FAIR
Bring your resume or portfolio 
to meet with professionals 
in these fields:
 Advertising
 New Media
 Public Relations
 Print Journalism
 Photojournalism
 Radio
 Television
THURSDAY. MARCH 23
2-4 p.m. 
Point Park College 
Lawrence Hall, Ballroom, 3rd Floor 
Call 412-392-4730 for more information

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  MARCH 13. 2000Open Forum: Cuisine of Great Britain propels students to debate
Poor culinary arts require advertising
Justin Suissa
The British are known to have 
many fine attributes as a people, 
sbme of them being politeness, dig
nity, tooth decay, and last but not 
least, making bad food. British food 
has a reputation of being known as 
inedible. However, Margaret 
Thatcher summed it up best when 
she said, these are some great fish 
and chips. While many people 
might automatically assume that 
British foods bad reputation is 
derived from its taste, that is not 
really the case. Overall, British food 
tastes quite good! The problem for 
the British has more to do with mar
keting than anything else.
To understand where British food 
is lacking it is important to examine 
other national and ethnic food 
groups and understand why it is 
that they are successful. Take 
Jewish food, for instance. While 
their food isnt necessarily good, 
Jews know how to market their 
food. First of all they have an elabo
rate scheme of preparation to make 
sure the food is kosher, a term 
which in plain English means cor
ner the market. For food to be 
kosher the animal has to be 
butchered a certain way, a rabbi has 
to supervise, meats cant be com
bined with dairy, etc. In essence you 
have an elaborate show to make you 
believe this food is special. I have 
never seen any show put on while I 
was being served fish and chips. In 
addition, Jewish people have a great 
story to go along with some of their 
food that essentially boils down to 
the fact that about 5,000 years ago a 
bunch of Jewish tenants in Egypt
got evicted from their place before 
they could finish baking their bread 
in the oven. The best story I ever 
heard about fish and chips is that 
they could not finish frying them 
because the broiler broke  this is 
not dramatic.
Japanese food is another great 
example of showmanship in food 
preparation. If you have ever eaten 
sushi then you realize the absurdity 
of having three people all dressed 
up to consult on one piece of raw 
fish. If you dont prepare sushi right 
you can die. This is very disturbing, 
and definitely not a problem youll 
encounter with British food. 
However, this adds a kind of aura to 
sushi that would otherwise not 
exist. I once ate at Benihana, a 
Japanese restaurant where a chef 
comes to your table, throws the food 
up in the air, and cuts it as its com
ing down. Is this necessary? 
Absolutely not, but thats the only 
reason people go there. The British 
could even go the route that their 
neighbors, the French, have chosen, 
which is to charge incredibly high 
amounts for a speck of food on a 
huge white plate. People think they 
are always eating something great 
whenever they are paying a lot for it, 
but bad French food is as easy to 
find as. Waldo (upper right hand 
corner, third from the left). Look at 
Korean barbecue: they have you do 
all the work yourself. Sounds ridicu
lous, but it works because it has a 
theme to it.
The solution for the British food 
industry is to hire an advertising 
agency to cultivate a new image for 
British food. While you might think 
this sounds absurd at face value, 
just think of every time youve seen 
a magazine ad advertising some
thing as generic as milk. Once 
again, to serve the public interest, I
took the liberty of contacting a num
ber of advertising agencies on 
behalf of Great Britain to help them 
out. Sadly, I believe there was a 
problem with my phone, because no 
matter what I tried, no conversation 
lasted more than five seconds. 
While one might say that this solu
tion ignores the problems the 
British food industry has faced as a 
result of Mad Cow Disease. I say 
they are not taking an optimistic 
viewpoint on the situation. In 
America, we would turn something 
like that to our advantage and come 
up with a slogan like British Beef, 
Its Got Kick. Remember, we are the 
country that tried to make people 
believe that a hot dog was checked 
out by God (Hebrew National), that 
Frank Perdue really inspects every 
chicken himself, and Bill Cosby 
would have you believe that Jell-0 is 
the fifth food group.
The British should start by renam
ing their food to more enticing 
titles. The French can call a ducks 
liver fois gras and make something 
that is a brown and gray mushy 
' lump sound delectable. So I would 
suggest that British start changing 
their current names of their dishes 
like Spotted Dick. Then have a 
famous British celebrity like Sir 
Anthony Hopkins make outrageous 
claims about British food and com
plain about the Euro. Finally, come 
up with some kind of theme to go 
along with an ad campaign for the 
food. In almost no time British 
restaurants will be renowned all 
over Europe. So, Tony Blair, if you 
reading this, give the William 
Morris agency a call and get started 
on creating an ad campaign.
Justin Suissa is a sophomore communication design major. He welcomes all responsible replies.
World cannot rival any meals of the isles
Aseem Gupta
Mrs. Beetons Cookbook is the 
published authority in British cook
ing. Pick up a copy in your local 
bookstore or library and youll 
instantly discover one of the most 
underrated cuisines in the world. 
When we think of fine food, we 
think of the cuisines of France and 
Italy. Hah! You think French food 
is refined? Eating snails and 
ground-up liver isnt my cup of tea. 
Sure, theyre cloaked behind 
haughty names like escargots and 
foie gras, but when you translate 
them into English, it translates into 
one word  nasty. And those 
tomatoes and pasta in Italian food 
arent even close to Italian. 
Tomatoes come from America, and 
pasta from China.
While the Europeans were slog
ging it out during World War I, the 
British were living the high life. 
Brits were feasting on breakfasts of 
cold joints, meats potted and en 
gelee, devilled kidneys, quenelles 
of pike, jellied eels, and haddock 
kedgerees while bombs were 
falling on Europe. The British, 
famous for hunting, would take 
their kill and feast on massive 
twelve-course dinners that would 
last for hours.
Dispel your feelings about British 
food for a few minutes, while I take 
you on a tour of the English cuisine. 
Lets start at breakfast. In Europe, 
breakfast consists of cold meats 
and hard breadits more com
monly known as the Continental
Breakfast. Europeans can eat this 
small breakfast because they usual
ly return home in the middle of the 
day for a massive lunch and siesta. 
Since Europeans are more social
ist and are supported by their gov
ernment, they can afford to work 
six-hour days. Europe also has 
massive unemployment.
This isnt possible in capitalist 
England where Brits must work 
eight-hour days in order to keep the 
capitalist machine running. The 
English breakfast is on a field of its 
own  one might call it the break
fast of champions. Fresh fried 
tomatoes and mushrooms, along 
with hash browned potatoes, lamb 
sausage, hot bacon, toast, and 
divine Heinz baked beans comprise 
the traditional English Breakfast. 
(On a side note, the H.J. Heinz 
Company is an integral part of the 
English cuisine  another reason 
why English food is a cut above the 
rest. When Heinz first came to 
England, the Brits thought it was 
an English, company and were 
shocked to learn that Heinz was 
American.)
Britons do have to stop for a 
quick lunch, and when they do they 
usually pop down to the local (pub) 
for fish and chips (which goes very 
well with Heinz ketchup) or a bowl 
of Shepherds Pie. Shepherds pie 
isnt actually a pie, but a layered 
dish made with fresh Scottish lamb, 
potatoes, corn, and Worcestershire 
sauce. Only one word can describe 
this dish  breathtaking. The 
average English person will then 
clean his or her palate with the 
most English of drinks, ale. I per
sonally recommend Bass Ale,
which has been brewed in England 
since 1777 (if you cant beat em, 
make beer). Apparendy, we dont 
have negative feelings towards' the 
Brits anymore, as we have made 
Bass Ale the most popular imported 
beer in America.
On weekends, between lunch 
and supper, Brits will often partake 
in tea. This is not the process of 
simply having a cup of tea. Teg is 
one of the most elaborate meal tra
ditions in the world, and if you 
truly want to be swept off your feet, 
head to a London hotel, like The 
Dorchester. Once inside youll be 
seated in an overstuffed chair 
where you will spend the next two 
hours in paradise. English tea con
sists of cake, tea sandwiches (often 
salmon, egg salad, or cucumber), 
tea, and most importantly, scones. 
Few people are able to stop eating, 
and are often forced to return to 
their rooms upstairs where they 
sleep comfortably until supper.
For some reason, British food has 
a reputation of being bland  a 
British dinner is anything but 
bland. Often comprised of freshly 
hunted meat, garden vegetables, 
and other fine ingredients, English 
dinners can last four hours. So the 
next time youre in the mood for 
some good food, take a walk to 
your local bookstore and pick up a 
copy of Mrs. Beetons Cookbook. 
After all, fresh Shepherds pie 
seems a lot more attractive to me 
than foie gras (French for cold 
liver).
Aseem Gupta is a sophomore information and decision systems major. He welcomes all responsible replies.
True origins of Carnegie Mellons Fence traditions explain current students discomfort
From FENCE, page 6
So when I couldnt con someone else into 
doing it, two short weeks ago, accompanied 
by my pledge brethren, I staked my claim in 
the one facet of this University that I still 
truly do not understand. (Well, that and the 
appeal of refusing to bathe for fear of losing 
ones seat in a cluster). Yes, ladies and gen
tlemen, I painted the fence.
I have always been puzzled by this tradi
tion of ours. While visiting last year, I asked 
a then-first-year friend of mine about the 
big chunk of multicolored concrete that had 
been erected in the middle of campus. She 
informed me that at CMU, there was a big 
fence, and that people painted it... for fun.
I. believe it was around then that I began to 
regret applying.
But seriously, before partaking in this, 
Carnegie Mellons famous social and recre
ational activity, I wanted to get the lowdown 
on what the fence was, why it is here, and 
why we have nothing better to do than stay 
up all hours of the night painting and guard
ing it.
Now, the version of the fence story that I
have been fed is really rather boring, and I 
imagine that many of you already know it, 
so I have decided to give you my rendition.
In the universitys early days, there was a 
large ravine dividing Carnegie Tech and 
Margaret Morrisons Womens College. This 
was originally put there by God, Id venture, 
because he knew that engineers, 
for the most part, were haggard 
and frightening to girls. They 
therefore needed to be isolated 
from the adjacent female popula
tion. Back then, the only way to 
get from one side of the gully to 
the other was to cross a single, 
tiny, poorly built bridge that
spanned the chasm. (Think ________Bridge on the River Kwai, but smaller and 
without the river.)
Now, when the College of Fine Arts was 
constructed around 1916, there was a lot of 
dirt leftover. So, with this soil, the 
University filled in the canyon, and the 
bridge was lost. Nerds, finally released from 
their natural holding place, rampaged
across the land, ravaging the countryside, 
drawing elaborate diagrams and building 
wondrous edifices out of popsicle sticks.
The women of Margaret Morrison were 
obviously frightened by this occurrence, 
having to this point existed in the complete 
absence of testosterone. So, the fence was
Nerds, finally released from their - 
natural holding place, rampaged 
across the land, ravaging the coun 
try side...
erected in an attempt to keep the frothing 
males from intruding upon their pristine 
world of chastity, innocence, and ... um ... 
pristineness.
Then came Elvis and birth control.
After that, women had advanced to the 
point where they were no longer in need of 
protection from men. In fact, as with today,
quite the opposite was in order. So, most of 
the suddenly unnecessary fence was torn 
down, and the lumber used to construct the 
temporary houses on the fraternity quad. 
Sadly, the university could not complete the 
process of tearing down the barrier, due to 
inclement weather and chronic ineptitude. 
_____ Thus, what remains is our hal
lowed fence.
So it was there at our revered, 
one-sided enclosure, that I sat and 
pondered the purpose behind all 
of this. Why was I painting the 
fence? What mysteries did its 
steel and concrete innards con
ceal? Why hadnt those god-for______ saken construction vehicles got
ten off the Cut yet?
I can honestly say that I enjoyed my time 
on the fence. What with temperatures in the 
balmy low-teens, Pittsburghs monsoon sea
son just setting in, and a tent that could 
function as a colander, I was more than 
happy to sleep out in the middle of campus.
What I found especially amusing were the
flood lights on the front of Doherty Hall that 
managed to cast just enough light in justthe 
right direction so as to illuminate my tent, 
making any attempt at sleep virtually impos
sible. That inconvenience was surpassed, 
perhaps, only by the mornings condescend
ing remarks made by passers by, a bit bitter 
at the fact that they had 8:30 classes. Thank 
you to all that participated. You know who 
you are.
But overall, I must say that this experience 
has made me, for the first time since arriv
ing here in August, feel as though I truly 
belong at Carnegie Mellon. Yes, I performed 
a ridiculously inane gesture aimed at 
upholding a tradition that serves no purpose 
other than to torment those who take part in 
it. I am truly a Tartan through and through. 
I guess next I should learn C+ + .
Sean Mintus is a first-year professional and creative writing major. Any objections to his column can be directed to the official Sean Mintus complaint department  the nearest trashcan, street gutter, or open flame.
Los Angeles Unified 
School District
Letrs oh Edhhi E(dasevh ntco)(vhotLAgnNwgM
Los Angeles Unified School District is seeking Elementary, 
English, Math, Science and Special Education Teachers
Recruiters will be in a 
location near you to interview 
and offer employment 
to qualified candidates.
To schedule an interview in western Pennsylvania 
or at the University of Pittsburgh, 
or for more information 
contact: Colleen Mori 1-800-TEACH LA 
cmori@lausd.kl2.ca.us
VISIT OUR WEB SITE AT: www.lausd.kl2.ca.us 
VISIT OUR RECRUITERS AT PERC!
n s6I/.QI3 .Qjj 6Iw6j4dy 56 i44s /y S4a,i6 yaii4aIu6u fS ydQiQ5y 42 56 u6/uP 
t6/i .i66dy ad S4ai ydQI6P EIjS 4I6 5QI3 ./I y/w6 S4aP
The houselights.
illThe Weir by Conor McPherson Directed by Edward Gilbert 
Now thru April 9 O'Reilly Theater, Downtown 
WINNER OF THE 1999 OLIVIER AWARD FOR 
BEST NEW PLAY. FOR TICKETS CALL (412) 316-1600
UNDER 26/FULL TIME STUDENTS $10.*
PITTSBURGH
DU 9O.5 PM Pittsburgh ftofiMfiaieUf
* Available in advance for Sun. thru Thurs. evenings and matinees. 
One hour before performance for Fri. and Sat. evenings. Valid ID required.
Contains adult language.
The O'Reilly is a theater of The Pittsburgh Cultural Trust, w
THEATER
www.ppt.org

---------------------------------------------------

GROOVI
Swing, skank, mosh or break 
your way into a pair of
AE Flight Shorts
Take $5 off
Shop in Your Underwear ae.com 
For the AE store nearest you call 1.888.A-Eagle-5
AE Spring Break
Take 15% off
All the gear you need to get your Groove on this Spring!
Thu coupon is valid for one time use March 8th thru March 28th. 2000.You must present tin's coupon to receive your discount. Only one coupon or discount 
of any type may be used.This coupon is not redeemable for cash, nor is it valid toward any previously purchased merchandise or the purchase of merchandise 
certificates, gift cards, clearance, rcdlinc or ALIVE merchandiie This offer is not valid for AE Catalog or Internet purchases.
M Spring Break
expires 3/28/00
: pricing effective thru March 28th, 2000
AMERICAN EAGLEOUTFITTERS
a

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  MARCH 13, 2000
Before you consider blowing off your student loan, consider the consequences. Phone calls - . ..
from bill collectors. Withhalding your wages. A bad credit rating that can get you
turned down for credit cards, car loans and mortgages. Dont do something 
you'll regret, when PHEAA can help you keep on track.
Learn more at -rHjttji3-com or call 1.800.328.0355PHEAAC 'nettling Attesa to lhu tuUm
m STANFORD June 20 through
'"HI SUMMER SESSION August 12. 2000
Chock full of absentees, NCAA mens basketball season continues
Full Court Press
by Pete Patterson
Thinking of this season in college basketball 
brings to mind memories of the images of 
great players sitting on the bench in street 
clothes. Due to the NCAAs holy war on the 
Amateur Athletic Union (AAU) programs of 
the country and a rash of injuries to high pro
file players, this season has been marred by 
nonparticipation. Nothing exemplifies this 
better than the plight of two of the nations 
top players, Kenyon Martin of Cincinnati and 
Chris Porter of Auburn.
Martin just this past week snapped the fibu
la in his lower leg early in a game against St. 
Louis, ending his season, and realistically 
ending the Bearcats high championship 
hopes. Porter is out for more underhanded 
reasons, as he took money from an agent, for
feiting his amateur status.
In fact, I believe the following two teams 
should battle for the championship in the 
NCAA this year. The first consists of players 
who have missed considerable time due to ill
ness or injury this 
year, and the second 
of those who have 
been suspended by 
the NCAA for vari
ous reasons.
The starting line
up for the Injured 
team would consist 
of: Mateen Cleaves 
(Michigan State) at 
point guard, Luke 
Axtell (Kansas) at 
shooting guard,
Mike Dunleavy, Jr. (Duke) at small forward, 
Kenyon Martin (Cincinnati) at power for
ward, and Loren Woods (Arizona) at center.
Starting for the Suspended team would be: 
Erick Barkley (St. Johns) at the point, Jamal 
Crawford (Michigan) at shooting guard, 
Kareem Rush (Missouri) at small forward, 
JaRon Rush (UCLA) at power forward, and 
Chris Porter (Auburn) down low at center.
In case any of the starters got tired, Pepe 
Sanchez of Temple or Stanfords Mark 
Madsen could come off the bench for the all
injury squad, while DerMarr Johnson of 
Cincinnati could come in to offer some long 
range shooting skills for those who were sus
pended.
Name Game
One of the best parts of each college basket
ball season is hearing the great names that 
many of the players possess. This year has 
proven to be no different.. Just take a look at 
the scoring leaders in the country. In second
place with 24.6 points per game is Sir Valiant 
Brown of George Washington, who has one of 
the best names to go along with one of the 
best games in the country.
In Virginia, freshman point guard Majestic 
Mapp tries to live up to the level of play set by 
his brother Scientific, who recently used up 
his eligibility at Florida A&M. For those who 
feel hearing things once isnt enough, meet 
Duany Duany of Wisconsin and Ruben 
Boumtje Boumtje of Georgetown. For some 
reason it seems that Paris London should be 
playing somewhere other than humble 
Memphis, Tennessee. Looking for someone to 
rescue your program? Guard Messiah Capers 
has led St. Bonaventure to their best season in 
years. Finally, lets not forget the reason Penn 
is the pride of the Ivy League this season, 
guard Michael Jordan.
Look out for the Owls
It seems that every national title contender 
has fallen this past week.
Cincinnati not only lost to St. Louis, they 
lost player of the year favorite Kenyon Martin 
as well. Stanford has 
stumbled recently, los
ing to UCLA and 
Arizona. The Wildcats 
themselves were com
ing off losses to both 
Pac 10 Oregon schools 
before upsetting the 
Cardinal. Ohio State 
suffered a bad loss to 
Penn State in the Big 
Ten tournament.
In Philadelphia, 
however, Temple has 
quietly been going about the business of dis
patching every opponent in sight. Since the 
return of point guard Pepe Sanchez, the Owls 
have lost only one game and have been play
ing some of the best ball in the country.
They may not be pretty to watch, as their 
matchup zone defense causes very ugly 
exchanges and their shooting aim often 
escapes them. However, their 37-12 halftime 
lead on a good St. Bonaventure team in the 
Atlantic 10 title game shows what they are 
capable of.
What sets this team apart from those in the 
past is its offensive ability. Guards Quincy 
Wadley and Lynn Greer can both hit the trey, 
and forward Mark Karcher plays like a young 
Adrian Dantley, scoring from all over the 
floor. Now, since Sanchez has been back, the 
scorers have a talented point to get them the 
ball and run the team. I guarantee this is the 
last team anyone wants to meet in the tourna
ment, and if theyre on they may well run the 
table.
Due to the NCAAs holy 
war on the AAU pro
grams of the country and 
a rash of injuries, this 
season has been marred 
by nonparticipation.
NIu6i3i/uy V Hi/ua/56 W5au6I5y
 Fulfill a distribution or general education requirement
 Accelerate progress towards your degree or minor
 Live on campus - 35 miles south of San Francisco
 Over 200 classes offered in more than 50 departments
Courses such as: Physics, Economics, Biolog)^,.
Engineering, Music, Computer Science, Philosophy, DramaS 
Classics, Athletics, Literature, History, Intensive Languages^! 
Chemistry, Psychology, Mathematics, Anthropology
Stanford University 
Summer Session 
Building 590, Ground Floor 
Stanford, CA 94305-3005 
(650) 723-3109. Fax:(650)725-6080 
Email: summersession@stanford.edu 
Web: summersession.stanford.edu
JOHN CARROLL 
UNIVERSITY
l.MUVlf)
Circle: Undergrad Grad
For a FREE catalogue, send your:
Name___________________
Address_________________
City, ST. ZIP_
SUMMER 2000
Our catalog of summer classes is 
ready to be mailed to you. The 
catalog gives you a complete listing 
of our course offerings, special 
workshops, and travel programs. 
GUI today for our Summer Catalog.
Sessions beginning 
May, June, and July
SMALL CLASSES  FREE PARKING
m
To request a catalog:
Call us at 216-397-4257 
or e-mail us at mkeaveney@jcu.edu 
Look us up at www,jcu.edu/summer
EASY REGISTRATION 
CONVENIENT LOCATION

---------------------------------------------------

Viog You Sin,
In addition to our Dogs, Burgers, Fries, and Subs, try our
E CiA HiJh vyiHaINNNNNNNNS
in
xJ
Baked Potatoes 
Onion Rings 
Reubens 
Shrimp Basket 
Fish Sandwich 
Fresh Salads 
Jalapeno Beef 
Portabella Burgers
Wing Dings 
Chicken Clubs Corned Beef Sandwich 
Chicken Parmesan Sandwich 
Cheese Sticks 
Grilled Chicken Sandwich 
Pastrami Sandwiches 
Roast Beef Sandwiches
Also new at the O:
^ ,
DELIVERY
oQ''/- xQI3y- eQ."6I 
W/IuQ.6y- Wd/3655Q 
CQII6iy- /Iu s4i6P 
45 54 s6I5Q4I k45 C43yti6I. tiQ6y- 8ai36iy/Iu W56/" k4/3Q6yPon DineEx and Campus Funds and
Department Charges* PHONE 687-8327
5pm - 2am Daily
oQ." ad / s6Ia /5 6Q56i 
EiQ3QI/j k45 C43 W4d 
1erN 4i E/"j/Iu0
BgPll sQIQsas
Sick of studying
Maybe its time for some real experience!
JOURNALISM AND MASS COMMUNICATION
INTERNSHIP FAIR
Thursday, March 23
_ 2-4 p.m.ADMISSIONJ r
Point Park College 
Lawrence Hall,3rd Floor, Ballroom
OPPORTUNITIES IN: 
ADVERTISING 
K(W MEDIA
 PUBLIC RELATIONS 
PRINT JOURNALISM
 PHOTOJOURNALISM 
RADIO 
TELEVISION
POST MODERN MAS.
The five colleges which make up the 
London Institute - Camberwell, Central Saint Martins, Chelsea, 
London College of Fashion and London College of Printing 
- offer the worlds widest range of courses in art, design and 
communications. Their MA course programme is second to none.
It includes book arts, conservation, communication design, 
design studies, fashion, film, fine art, graphics, industrial design, 
media, multimedia, scenography and textiles.
Interested? To find out more contact Rachel Hudson,
65 Davies Street, London W1Y 2DA, United Kingdom. 
Telephone: +44 20 7514 6130 Fax: +44 20 7514 6131 
e-mail: marcom@linst.ac.uk web site: www.linst.ac.uk
THE LONDON INSTITUTE

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  MARCH 13, 2000
Mens NCAA tournament field announced, third year in a row for Duke as first seed
INDIANAPOLIS (AP)  Duke and 
Michigan State were seeded No. 1 
for the second straight year in the 
jvjCAA tournament and will be 
joined by the Pac-10s Stanford and 
/vrizona as the top teams.
Cincinnati, which had been 
ranked No. 1 in the AP poll for 12 
weeks but lost center Kenyon 
Martin to a broken leg last week, 
was seeded second as the 64-team 
field was announced Sunday. 
Bearcats coach Bob Huggins called 
the selection committees decision 
ridiculous.
Duke, a No. 1 for the third 
straight year and the national run
ner-up last season, was the top 
team in the East. The Blue Devils 
(27-4) will play 16th-seeded Lamar, 
the only team in the field with a 
.500 record, on Friday in WinstonSalem, N.C.
Michigan State (26-7), which 
reached the Final Four last season, 
was No. 1 in the Midwest and will 
play No. 16 Valparaiso on Thursday 
in Cleveland.
Pac-10 champion Arizona (26-6) 
was No. 1 in the West and will play 
No. 16 Jackson State on Thursday in 
Salt Lake City.
Stanford (26-3), which lost twice 
to Arizona this season, was seeded
No. 1 for the first time and will play 
in the South, opening against No. 16 
South Carolina State on Friday in 
Birmingham, Alabama.
Three schools  Central 
Connecticut State, North CarolinaWilmington, and Southeast 
Missouri State  are making their 
first appearances in the tourna
ment.
The longest wait that ended 
Sunday belonged to "Hofstra, which 
had not been in the field since 1977. 
The other waits of over 20 years that 
ended belonged to St. Bonaventure 
(1978) and Appalachian State and 
Indiana State, which made their last 
appearances in 1979.
That Appalachian State team was 
coached by Bobby Cremins, who 
retired earlier this season at Georgia 
Tech, while the Indiana State team 
was led by Larry Bird and lost in the 
championship game to Michigan 
State and Magic Johnson.
Fresno State is in for the first time 
since 1984, and coach Jerry 
Tarkanian hasnt been in the tour
nament since leading UNLV to the 
Final Four in 1991 as the Runnin 
Rebels tried to repeat as national 
champions.
Were all very excited, Tarkanian 
said. The universitys been waiting
a long time for the opportunity to 
get to the Big Dance.
For the first time in many years 
North Carolina was a team on the 
bubble. The Tar Heels selection 
extended their record of consecu
tive tournament appearances to 26 
years. The second longest streak 
also continued, with Arizona mak
ing its 16th consecutive appearance.
Three conferences had six teams 
selected  Big 10, Big 12, and 
Southeastern  and the Big East 
had five. Conference USA and the 
Pac-10 had four teams each, while 
the Atlantic Coast Conference had 
only three teams selected for the 
second straight year.
Temple, a team considered by 
many as a possible No. 1 seed, was 
No. 2 in the East and will play 
Lafayette on-Friday in Buffalo, N.Y.
The other teams seeded No. 2 
were Cincinnati in the South, Iowa 
State in the Midwest, and St. Johns 
in the West.
As for Cincinnati, Huggins was 
shocked that his team didnt get a 
top spot after a 28-3 season.
One of those losses came against 
St. Louis in the Conference USA 
tournament, when Martin was 
injured at the beginning of the 
game.
Its ridiculous, totally ridicu
lous, Huggins said. We must be 
the first team in history to be No. 1 
in the RPI and not get a No. 1 seed. 
Thats a historical thing those guys 
just did. How do they know how 
good well be without Kenyon? 
Craig Thompson, chairman of the 
NCAA selection committee, said the 
Martin injury was the only reason 
the Bearcats were not seeded No. 1.
Theyre clearly a different 
team without Kenyon Martin, 
said Thompson, also the commis
sioner of the Mountain West 
Conference. The issue we had 
was, how different?
However, Arizona was seeded No.
1 even though star Loren Woods 
might not play in the tournament 
because of a bad back. Thompson 
said there was a difference.
We saw Arizona play Stanford 
without Loren Woods and beat 
them, he said. There was a test 
there.
Tulsa and Iowa State, both 29-4, 
have the most victories of those in 
the field, while Lamar (15-15) and 
Jackson State (17-15) have the 
most losses.
The other games in WinstonSalem will be No. 4 Illinois against 
No. 13 Pennsylvania; No. 5 Florida
against No. 12 Butler; and No. 8 
Kansas against No. 9 DePaul.
The rest of the schedule in Buffalo 
will be: No. 3 Oklahoma State-No.
14 Hofstra; No. 6 Indiana-No. 11 
Pepperdine; and No. 7 Oregon-No. 
10 Seton Hall.
In addition to Stanford-South 
Carolina State, the rest of the games 
in Birmingham will be: No. 4 
Tennessee-No. 13 LouisianaLafayette; No. 5 and defending 
champion Connecticut-No. 12 Utah 
State; and No. 8 North Carolina-No.
9 Missouri.
The other South bracket will be in 
Nashville, Tenn., where Cincinnati 
plays No. 15 North CarolinaWilmington; No. 3 Ohio State faces 
No. 14 Appalachian State; No. 6 
Miami goes against No. 11 
Arkansas; and No. 7 Tulsa plays No.
10 UNLV.
In Salt Lake City, No. 4 LSU plays 
No. 13 Southeast Missouri State; 
No. 5 Texas faces No. 12 Indiana 
State; and No. 8 Wisconsin goes 
against No. 9 Fresno State.
The other West bracket, in 
Tucson, Ariz., features St. Johns 
against No. 15 Northern Arizona; 
No. 3 Oklahoma-No. 14 Winthrop; 
No. 6 Purdue-No. 11 Dayton; and 
No. 7 Louisville-No. 10 Gonzaga.
In addition to the Michigan StateValparaiso game in Cleveland, No. 4 
Syracuse faces No. 13 Samford; No.
5 Kentucky goes against No. 12 St. 
Bonaventure; and No. 8 Utah plays 
No. 9 Saint Louis.
Iowa State plays No. 15 Central 
Connecticut State in Minneapolis; 
No. 3 Maryland faces No. 14 Iona; 
No. 6 UCLA goes against No. 11 Ball 
State; and No. 7 Auburn plays No.
10 Creighton.
On March 23 and 25 the West 
Regional will be in Albuquerque, 
N.M., and the Midwest will be in 
Auburn Hills, Mich. On March 24 
and 26 the East Regional will be in 
Syracuse, N.Y., while the South will 
be in Austin, Texas.
The Final Four is April 1 and -3 in 
Indianapolis.
Among the teams which didj not 
get at-large bids but were under 
consideration were: Virginia;
Vanderbilt, which would have given 
the SEC seven teams arid might 
have been knocked out when 
Arkansas went on ,a surprise run to 
the conference tournament title; 
Villanova and Notre Dame of the 
Big East; Brigham Young of'the 
Mountain West; and Southwest 
Missouri State of the Missouri 
Valley Conference.
LEARN SOMETHING NEW 
FOR A CHANGE. (THAT'S WHY 
YOU'RE HERE RIGHT?)
JOIN TARTAN PRODUCTION. 
THURSDAYS 6:15PM. 
UC 3RD FLOOR. ROOM 314.
classifieds
A Suite for Less Than a Hotel Room
Elegantly furnished one or two bedroom suites 
with equipped kitchens, cable TV, VCR, 
free local phone, parking and located 
a few steps from Walnut Street shopping.
Daily, Weekly, & Monthly Rates
Travel
BE FLEXIBLE ... SAVE 55$
Europe $159 (o/w + taxes)
CHEAP FARES WORLDWIDE!! 
Mexico/Caribbean $199 (r/t + 
taxes)
Call: (800) 326-2009 
wvvw. 4cheapair. com
Go Direct! #1 Internet-based 
company offering WHOLESALE 
Spring Break packages by eliminat
ing middlemen! ALL Destinations! 
Guaranteed Lowest Price!
(800) 367-1252. www.springbreakdirect. com
Last Minute Specials on Spring 
Break! Cancn! Jamaica! Nassau! 
Save an additional $150 per per
son to Cancn. 32 hours of free 
drinks! Call us at (800) 293-1443 
or go to StudentCity.com
Mexico/Caribbean or Central 
America $229 r.t. Europe $169
o.w. Other world wide destinations 
cheap. ONLY TERRORISTS GET 
YOU THERE CHEAPER! Book tickets 
on line www.airtech.com. or 
(212) 219-7000.
For Sale
For Rent - North Oakland.
Fabulous 1 & 2 BR apartments. 
Luxury Building, Great Location. 
MUST SEE!! Cal (412) 683-8683
North Oakland - Center Ave at 
Craig Ave. Large 5 BR house, rear 
deck and yard. 2 bathrooms, 2 
kitchens, close to grocers.
Available 9-1-2000, $1600 + utili
ties. Call Dave 688-0533
Shadyside/ Beautiful two and 
three bedroom apartments, two 
blocks from Walnut Street, carpet
ing, fully equipped kitchens, securi
ty, laundry, log burning fireplace, 
central a/c, deck. Available mid 
August. Rent $750.00 to $1100.00
plus utilities. (412)461-5837.
Opportunities
Assistant Swim Coach needed for 
community U.S.S. team. Hours: 5- 
8 pm Monday - Friday with addi
tional time available Saturday am. 
Excellent hourly salary. Call Mike 
Pfister, head coach, Woodland Hills 
Aquatic Team, 512-8133
Balloon Artist/Entertainers want
ed to work Pittsburgh Area. 
Restaurants and special events, 
night, and weekends. Basic bal
loon twisting abilities preferred.
Will train potential candidates.
Call (412) 371-4899
Energetic Sales Person 12-20 
hours, ladies underwear exercise 
store. Stop in for application. The 
PussyCat, 5862 Forbes Avenue, 
Squirrel Hill.
Escape to the Shenandoah 
Mountains of West Virginia. 
TIMBER RIDGE CAMPS, coed, seek
ing energetic, fun-loving staff to 
work with children this coming 
summer. 90 miles from Wash. DC. 
Top salaries, travel allowance. If 
interested, call (800) 258-2267 or 
email TrCamps@aol.com.
GARDENER FOR PUBLIC GAR
DEN, OAKLAND. 15 hours week
ly. May-September. Sun, Mon, 
Tues, Wed, 7:30-10 am. Fri 7:30- 
11:30 am. Must have some plant 
knowledge, willing to learn, reli
able and self-motivating. Salary: 
$8.50 per hour. Call: 242-6989 or 
421-2330
HELP WANTED $5 1,000 $5 
Fundraiser No effort. Big 
Money!! No investment. Work 
with your friends! Get a free.Tshirt tool. Cal Sue at 
(800) 808-7442 ext 104
How does 800/week extra income 
sound to you? Amazingly prof
itable opportunity. Send selfaddressed stamped envelope to: 
international 1375 Coney Island 
Ave., PMB #427, Brooklyn, NY 
11230
$$ Summer Cash $$
Student Business Mngmt/Sales posi
tion with national firm. Pays $10- 
$12 + commission. Available to 
Soph, Jr, & Sr. only. For info go to http: //www. jablon. com
Student Organizations earn 
$1000-$2000 with the easy campus- fundraiser.com three hour fundrais
ing event. No sales required. 
Fundraising dates are filling quickly, 
so call today! Contact campus- fundraiser.com, (888) 923-3238, or 
visit www.campusfundraiser.com.
Wanted: 40 people to lose 30 
lbs/30 days
100% Natural. Money back 
Guarantee
www. evitality-be-healthy. com 
(888) 396-7898
Classified Rates
1-20 words.....$10.00/wk
21-50 words.....$12.00/wk
51-100 words....$15.00/wk
MAIL TO:
The Tartan, Box 17 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
Classifieds must be paid in 
cash or check before first run 
date
On-campus departments and 
organizations may pay by jour
nal transfer
Due by 5 pm the Thursday 
before publication
5405 Fifth Avenue -Pittsburgh, PA 15232  shadysideinn.com  (412) 441-4444THE TARTAN
268-2111

---------------------------------------------------

Indoor track and field teams finish satisfactorily at 
UAA Championships, prepare for outdoor season
by Brian SmithContributing Editor
While most students were taking 
a long weekend for mid-semester 
break, the mens and womens 
indoor track & field teams were 
hard at work in the Windy City. The 
University of Chicago played host to 
the 1999-2000 UAA Indoor Track & 
Field Championships from March 
3-4, and Carnegie Mellon got a 
good look at the competition for the 
upcoming outdoor season.
Administration
Intramural Director: Mike
Mastroianni X8-2214 or mma8+ 
Assistant Intramural Director: 
Mike Grzywinski x8-2214 
Intramural Secretary: Amy Kiryk 
x8-2053 or kiryk+
IM President: Justin Peroli x2- 
3917 or peroli+
Vice President: Mike Hutsko x2- 
3942 or hutsko+
Womens President: Andrea
Nellis x2-2485 or nellis+
Important Dates
Wednesday, March 22  IM 
Board Meeting at 1:15 pm in 
Gym Conference Room 
Thursday, March 23  Indoor 
Soccer, Softball, Squash, Table 
Tennis, and Call Pool 
rosters due by 4:30 pm in the IM 
Office.
Basketball  The finals of the 
2000 IM basketball season 
were held Thursday at Skibo 
Gym. In Majors, David Burns
15 points led Fruitee Guys 
Omega to the title. In 
Intermediates SAE repeated as
The competition is usually 
extremely stiff in the UAA, especial
ly on the indoor side, said womens 
head coach Dario Donatelli. CMU 
is always at a disadvantage because 
of lack of indoor training facilities ... 
but I was very happy with how our 
kids finished.
The mens team finished in sev
enth place with a score of 29 points. 
Junior Matt Gustin and seniors 
Mark Plesko and Kenn Oldham all 
placed in their respective events. 
Gustins shot put of 13.92 meters 
won him third place while Plesko
champions with Nick Sracic 
scoring 12 points. In Minors, 
Mad Skillz captured the cham
pionship. Sara Eichers 12 
points led the Hoopers to the 
title in Womens.
Floor Hockey  The season is 
underway and continues until 
after Spring Break.
Badminton  Matches are 
underway and continue until 
next week. Playoffs will begin 
next Wednesday.
Water Basketball  Season is 
underway at the University 
Center pool. Schedules are avail
able at the IM Office.
Overall IM Standings
Men
1. PiKA- 3875
2. SAE - 3116
3. Beta - 2100
4. Omega -1825
5. PKT -1591
Women
1.TSA-883
2. Frat Girls - 800
3. KKG - 766
4. Hoopers - 666
Note: All email rosters are due 24 hours prior to the posted date.
finished second in the 800-meter 
run, with a time of 1:59.77. Oldham 
finished third in the 5000-meter 
run, with a time of 15:31.81.
The women scored 34 points for 
sixth place, equaling their finish 
from the 1998-1999 season. The 
team has relied on distance runners 
for success in recent years, and this 
season was no exception. Cross
country team veterans senior 
Andrea Byrnes and sophomores 
Brooke Cutler and Amy Graveline 
all placed, Byrnes with a time of 
18:10.84 in the 5000-meter event 
and Cutler with a 10:34.83 in the 
3000-meter run. Graveline finished 
second in the 800-meter event with 
a time of 2:28.97.
The teams second place finish in 
the distance medley (13:00.80) 
rounded out the Tartan scorers.
I was somewhat surprised with 
the number of kids that placed,
said Donatelli. Im very happy for 
how they finished.
The indoor track season at CMU 
serves as preparation for .outdoor 
competitions and the coaches and 
athletes are already preparing for 
the squads debut outdoor meet over 
spring break.
[The indoor season] is more or 
less a stepping stone; almost a neces
sary evil, said Donatelli. We have 
to do it because outdoor season is 
too short. Training is always tough, 
however, especially for the throwers. 
They throw indoors as much as pos
sible and this year we were pretty 
lucky and this winter was not too 
bad so they got outside a few times. 
The men and women will oDen
the season March 31-April 1 when 
they compete in the Raleigh Relays. 
The meet will expose the Tartans to 
some of the best that the NCAA has 
to offer.
The Raleigh Relays are a [NCAA] 
Division I meet so the competition 
will be better than anything the kids 
have ever seen, said Donatelli 
From there on out we will be run
ning all Dili opponents.
Im expecting good distance 
events again this year, said Donatelli, 
adding that they will get an added 
boost from mid-distance runner firstyear Christa Thomas, who spent the 
winter season on the Tartan basket
ball team. Theres more distance in 
the outdoor season too, so well do 
better just because of that.
On top of the increased signifi
cance for distance events, the out
door season adds the javelin event, 
in which Donatelli expects senior
Bridget Szczypinski to make a mark 
for the Tartans.
If previous years can provide any 
insight to the teams 1999-2000 
performance, Dontatellis anticipa
tion of improvement at the UAA is 
well-founded. The mens team 
placed seventh in the indoor cham
pionships in 1998-99 and jumped to 
fifth at the outdoor meet.
Overall, we are minus a couple of 
All-Americans this year, said 
Donatelli. But I noticed from the 
indoor season that the competition 
in the UAA is not as good as it has 
been in the past. If that holds, we 
will probably do a little better for the 
outdoor season. The whole season 
essentially comes down to UAAs.
[The indoor season] is more or less a step
ping stone; almost a necessary evil We have 
to do it because outdoor season is too short. 
 Dario Donatelli, 
Womens Track and Field coach
Sports
March 13, 2000 THE TARTAN ^age 14Tartans conclude strong season as champions of ECAC tourney
Junior guard Lauren Petruzzi quickens the pace as the Tartans run downcourt in their first-round 67-56 home win over Penn State-Behrend on March 1.
ing their place in program and
Senior guard Sherry Cribbins takes a shot over a Penn State-Behrend player.;
BASKETBALL, from page 1 
during the first half and the begin
ning of the second half, leading 
39-25 with 14:03 remaining. The 
Lady Wolverines did not succumb to 
the daunting deficit, however, and 
mounted a furious comeback in a 
21-6 run over the next eight min
utes of the contest, claiming a 
46-45 advantage.
Nevertheless, Wesleys first and 
only lead of the game did not last 
long before the Tartans regained the 
-lead on senior guard Sherry 
Cribbinss three-pointer. The basket, 
spurred a 21-7 Tartan run over the 
final 5:15 of the game to completely 
slam the door on the Lady 
Wolverines chances to advance to
the finals. Petruzzi sank 11 free 
throws during the decisive run, 
completing a tremendous perfor
mance of 21 points, five rebounds, 
and five assists for the game. Coval 
finished with 11 points and eight 
rebounds, while Brady contributed 
10 points and 10 rebounds.
Their second sound victory of the 
tournament placed the Tartans in 
the finals against the fifth-seeded 
Grove City College Lady Wolverines 
(similarly named to the Wesley 
College team), who were fresh from 
a couple of upsets themselves. To 
reach the finals, the Lady 
Wolverines defeated fourth-seeded 
Alvernia College of Pennsylvania in 
the opening round and first-seeded
Lebanon Valley College of 
Pennsylvania in the semifinals.
In the tournament finals, 
Carnegie Mellon and Grove City 
struggled to take control of the 
game during the entire first half, 
with seven ties and 12 lead changes 
taking place. Only a 5-0 run by the 
Tartans over the last minute of the 
half gave them a 32-27 lead at the 
break. In the beginning of the sec
ond half, the Tartans jumped out of 
the gate to claim a 42-35 lead by the 
12:26 mark, but Grove City cut that 
lead down to 44-40 three minutes 
later.
Over the next eight minutes the 
Tartans put the game away with a 
devastating 18-6 run, all but securschool history. Petruzzi once again 
played solidly, scoring 13 points 
while adding five assists, five 
rebounds, and two steals. Coval 
scored 17 points and added an 
impressive 15 rebounds, nine of 
which were offensive. Brady scored 
17 as well, on 7-9 shooting.
The postseason games were a lot 
of fun, and I think thats why we did 
so well, said Coval of the playoff 
experience. There was no pres
sure, we just went out and played. 
Regular season games seem more 
like a job, and the past three games 
just felt like a bonus. If we lost, it 
didnt matter.
Coval also reflected on the teams
very successful and rewarding sea
son.
As for the regular season games, 
I definitely think the team grew a lot 
through the season, and we did it 
together, she said. We were 
friends on and off the court, which 
made the season go by easier. The 
definite high points of the season 
were our upset of NYU, the out
standing support at our Washington 
University game, and the ECAC 
championships.
The most valuable player of the 
ECAC tournament, Petruzzi, 
believed that the difficult competi
tion in the UAA helped prepare the 
Tartans for the tournament they 
werent necessarily expecting to
play in.
As far as the postseason went, it 
was really exciting, said Petruzzi. 
We were all pretty surprised when 
we made it to the ECACs. No team 
we played in the tournament really 
compared to any UAA team that we 
played during the season, though. 
That just goes to show how tough 
our conference is, I guess.
This season in the books, Petruzzi 
now looks to her senior year with 
optimism.
All in all I thought we had a fan
tastic year. Its going to be tough to 
replace our seniors, but luckily our 
freshmen got a lot of playing time so 
hopefully theyll be able to step it up 
next season.
Sports ShortsFencing team performs well
The CMU fencing team recently 
participated in the 2000 Holy 
Grail Championship. The team 
won the traveling trophy for this 
year.
The top three places for each 
type of weapon are as follows:
Epee:
1. Fencing Institute of America
2. Penn State
3. Kent Fencing Club
Sabre:
1. CMU
2. Penn State
3. IUP A - Acolytes
Foil:
1. Three Rivers Fencing Club
2. CMU
3. Hotboyz - Fencing Institute 
of America
The tournament was long and 
grueling, and plans will be made 
next year to shorten it.
Cricket tourney plans develop
The game of cricket, father to 
baseball, is picking up here at 
CMU. Mayur, the South Asian stu
dent organization on campus, is 
planning on holding a Cricket 
Tournament at Gesling Stadium 
in the next couple of weeks. 
Currently, a rules committee is 
being formed, and a meeting for it 
will be held on Monday, March 
13th at 5:30 pm in Kirr Commons.
The first matches will probably 
be played next weekend, so teams 
must be formed quickly. The goal 
for the organizers is to have about 
8 or 10 people per team, depend
ing on the venue.
A cricket distribution list is 
being formed for those interested 
in watching, playing, and sup
porting the English-born sport. 
General updates will be posted to assocs.mayur, assocs.cricket, and cmu.student. mayur.
Students interested in signing 
up for the dlist should email mm3m@andrew.cmu.edu.
CMU players receive honors
At the end of their regular sea
sons, four members of the 
womens basketball team and two 
members of the mens basketball 
team were named to AllUniversity Athletic Association 
(UAA) teams.
Kara Coval and Michelle Sodini 
were named to the womens AllUAA second team. Lauren 
Petruzzi and Erin Brady both 
received All-UAA Honorable 
Mentions. Coval finishes the regu
lar season with 8.9 rebounds per 
game, and an average of 10.5 
points. She started in every game 
she played in, and She posted five 
of her six double-doubles in the 
last 11 games of the season.
Sodini averaged just under ten 
points a game and led the team in 
steals with 71. Sodini also started 
in every game this season and led 
the team in minutes played.
Petruzzi led the team in assists 
at about 3.6 per game, adding 2.0 
steals and 7.7 points per game, 
and was named MVP of the ECAC 
tournament.
On the mens side, Ross 
Freeman and Dom Ionadi were 
both named to the All-UAA 
Honorable Mention list. Freeman 
finished his season with 8.9 
rebounds per game, and claimed 
the Association rebounding tide 
as a first-year student. He also 
had 32 block on the season, and 
had three double-doubles.
Ionadi scored in double figures
11 times, and scored more than
20 points three times. He was 
named UAA player of the week on 
February 14.

---------------------------------------------------

13 March 2000
3 V< \,y T.m
iy p.o.vao
tiQP r/iP Rl /5 W/5P r/iP RR /5 p / z/I34y k/jj AI 5 
B Q5 erN UC- Bp Q54a5
ir.0f.ol W y/**
The Real Inspector Hound: despite minor flaws, no mystery 
behind plays great success at this weekends performance
by Thaddeus BillmanStaffwriter
In a play that defies the very 
structure of its genre, Tom 
Stoppard brings the world (or at 
least CMU) The Real Inspector Hound. On the surface a murder 
mystery, The Real Inspector Hound 
probes deeper, asking what is real? 
It isnt just about who dunit and 
why, but about who is who?
The Scotch n Soda production 
starred Joshua Haran as Birdboot 
and Geoffrey Plitt as Moon, two 
reviewers who went to the theater 
to see the latest play. However, 
they seemed to pay little attention 
to the play or each other as they 
rambled on about their petty prob
lems. Scene one set the stage: 
there was a mad killer on the 
loose, last seen near Muldoon 
Manor. Inspector Hound was lead
ing the investigation. Meanwhile,
a man matching the killers 
description showed up at Muldoon 
Manor. The man was known as 
Simon and was no stranger to the 
Manor, as he had had a romantic 
fling with Felicity and seeks the 
love of Cynthia Muldoon, both of 
whom are residents of the manor. 
The viewer also learned that'just 
days prior, a long lost relative, 
Magnus, returned from Canada.
In scene two, Inspector Hound 
arrived to search for the madman.
A scene from Scotch and Sodas recent play, The Real Inspector Hound, a probing yet comical murder mystery
He was informed that Simon 
matched the description, but 
Simon was soon found dead. In 
addition, another body was found, 
hidden underneath the couch. 
Inspector Hound questioned the 
residents, whom each had a 
motive.
The stage darkened for scene 
three, but before the scene 
began, a phone on stage began to 
ring. After a few rings, Birdboot 
answered. It .was Moons wife, 
worried that he was cheating on 
her, which apparently he had. He 
said he hadnt, despite the fact 
that he had spent most of the play 
talking about his date with the 
mermaid Felicity and his desire 
to date the actress playing 
Cynthia. After he hung up, the 
actors returned and began basi
cally replaying the first scene 
except Moon was acting as 
Simon, which was facilitated by 
his similar romantic involvement. 
The scene ended and Birdboot 
left his chair to tell Moon he was 
mad for interfering. He then rec
ognized the dead body (which 
was under the couch) as Higs, a 
person with whom he had previ
ously been in conflict.
In the final scene things got 
really bizarre, as Simon and 
Hound took Moon and Birdboots 
places. Birdboot acted as Inspector 
Hound as he tried to figure out 
who shot Moon. He attempted to 
pin the murder of Higs on Moon
and the murder of Moon on 
Felicity, but Magnus disagreed. 
Magnus asked Birdboot if he was 
the real Inspector Hound, to which 
he replied that Magnus knows 
very well that he was not. Magnus 
then revealed his true identity to 
be the real Inspector Hound and 
shot Birdboot. Finally, he also 
revealed that 
he was 
Albert, the 
presumed 
dead husband 
of Felicity.
The play cer
tainly got points for 
being original.
Unfortunately, the script 
also had a lot of problems. The 
dialogue was boring and often 
trite, while the plot lacked any real 
substance, causing a rushed feel
ing. The play wanted for an 
underlying theme. Things hap
pened, but no apparent order 
existed. On the plus side, the sit
uational humor was fairly funny.
The acting, as a whole, was 
adequate. No one performance 
was horrible, but none were 
great either. The most notable 
performance came from Timothy 
Kingston Fife who played Hound. 
His character was the most inter
esting, but sadly also had one of 
the smallest parts. Joshua 
Horan also gave a notable 
performance. He seemed 
genuinely confused
when he found himself part of the 
play.
Overall, the play showed decent 
promise. If the dialogue was 
revised and the depth increased, The Real Inspector Hound could be 
a really interesting play. Too bad it 
fell short this time around.
Koichiro
A funny scene from The Real Inspector Hound.
Music student sets his sights on NYC, LA
Bryan Kaplan/Photo Editor
A glance at film scorer Adam Waite.
by Cassandra KnightContributing Editor
Adam Waite is a senior at CMU majoring in classical music composition. Upon graduating, he plans to pursue a career in film scoring begin
ning with grad school at NYU. He has written scores for movies, jazz band pieces, and other projects throughout his duration at CMU. Some of his most notable work includes a film score he wrote for the Jewish Film Festival and a score that he wrote last year when CMU filmmakers produced the movie Out of Courage 2.The Tartan: What sort of music do 
you compose?Adam Waite: An eclectic range of 
music. I do many jazz band pieces, 
but first off I actually stuck to my 
what was in my major, which was 
primarily classical music. I dont 
really know what classical music is 
today, but I would say that I pretty 
much enjoy composing a lot of mod
ern classical music and small jazz 
combos.TT: What do you envision your
self getting involved with in your 
future career?AW: I enjoy jazz and classical
music very much, but I am going to 
NYUs film school in the fall. 
Hopefully, that will set me off for a 
future career in film scoring.TT: Can you talk about the types 
of past projects youve worked on?AW: As far as the film-scoring 
stuff goes, I wrote the score for 0C2 
and the original. The guy who did 
those movies was a really good 
friend of mine and Ive actually 
worked on three of his films. I also 
more recently orchestrated a film 
for the Jewish Film Festival, and 
right now I am in the process of 
doing two film scores for students 
who asked me to help them out with 
a masters program in film scoring. 
So, overall its been pretty cool.
TT: You play piano, is there any 
other instrument you have experi
ence with?AW: I played trombone in high 
school. I have been playing piano 
since I was about 5. I was always 
fooling around, though, on the 
piano more than anything else.TT: What does it take to compose, 
can you explain the sort of work that 
goes into it?AW: Well, there are a lot of differ
ent ranges to it. I call the whole 
process getting lucky! I improvise, 
I come up with something I like, and 
if I really like that idea then I go 
with it. Then, you have to make 
some twists and turns, and manipu
late all of your ideas so that they 
coherently form a whole piece.
See WAITE, page L2
Lisette Miller-Dixon/Contributing Editor
CMU students learn how to write Chinese characters in a workshop 
designed to explore the art of calligraphy drawing and writing

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  MARCH 13, 2000
NORTH OAKLAND
214 North Craig Street 
Furnished Efficiency Apts. - $485 and up
- Renovated
- Air Conditioning
- Heat and Water Included
- Wall to Wall Carpeting
- Secure Building
1 bedroom, furnished (from $560), 
unfurnished (heat and water included)
Mature/Graduate Students 
Parking Available 
Evenings: 731-0450 
Days: 682-1194
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra performs superb array of classical music
by Aseem GuptaWebmaster 
& Srinivas PullelaStaff writer
Last Saturday, in what was perhaps 
the most heavily attended concert of 
the season, The Pittsburgh Symphony 
Orchestra (PSO) played a superb pro
gram of concert music spanning three 
periods of musical history. Under the 
direction of Maestro Mariss Jansons, 
the PSO showed off its full musical 
abilities with its breathtaking perfor
mance.
The concert opened with Haydns Symphony no. 95 in C Minor, one of the 
twelve London symphonies. Haydn 
wrote his London Symphonies while 
residing in the British capital where he 
was inspired by the pomp of British tra
ditions. Like his other London 
Symphonies, no. 95 was appropriately 
stately and refined. Despite its 
restrained personality, no. 95 still man
ages to entertain and captivate audi
ences, and was greatly helped by the 
PSOs continuity and clarity.
Next on the program was 
Beethovens Piano concerto no. 5, the 
Emperor, played by guest soloist 
Emmanuel Ax. Axs performance of this 
piece was truly stellar. Musically, Axs 
fluid and sensitive interpretations of
the music brought out the triumphant 
spirit of the piece. Technically, Ax 
played with unparalleled ease and gra
ciousness. Perhaps the strongest aspect 
of Axs playing, however, was his extra
ordinary control over dynamics. Ax 
held the audience captive with his 
dynamic solo passages and intricate 
keyboard work, which was carried off 
brilliantly.
The conclusion of the concerto was 
met by an overwhelming applause 
from the audience. After five curtain 
calls, Ax returned to play Chopins Berceuse in D-flat for an encore. Ax 
remained true to the spirit of the word 
berceuse, which means lullaby in 
French, in his interpretation, as he 
played this beautiful piece with an 
unusually delicate touch. While some 
audience members were undoubtedly 
disappointed that Ax did not return 
with a more dynamic encore, his exe
cution of the Chopin piece was truly 
transcendent.
The concert closed with Stravinskys 
dramatic orchestral work Le Sacre du Printemps, or Rite of Spring. Inspired by 
a vision of Stravinsky, the work is 
based on a tribal fertility ritual in 
which a young virgin is sacrificed to 
the earth. With all its polyrhythms and 
complex harmonies, this piece 
undoubtedly ranks among the most dif
ficult of orchestral works. Jansons rose 
up to the challenges of the mighty 
work, however. From the whining folk 
melody of the opening bars to the 
crashing, syncopated harmonies of the 
closing Sacrificial Dance, the PSO 
always kept good time and its dynam
ics were flawless.
The PSO continues to shine this sea
son with its extraordinary perfor
mances. Audience members who chose 
to stay for a chat with Jansons and Ax 
were treated to a preview of next years 
concert schedule, which may be even 
more exciting than this years. Jansons 
explained his desire to attract more 
young people to the symphony, by 
making the symphony trendy. He 
admitted that over the course of the 
last century, attending symphony con
certs has become more of a haughty 
event than it should be. Ax recounted 
times before 1900 when brawls erupt
ed in the audience, and times when 
audience members would heckle the 
performers. Though it is unlikely that 
we will see tomatoes flying in Heinz 
Hall anytime soon, Jansons and Ax 
proved that the symphony can be more 
lively.
The PSO will return on April 7 with 
soloist Anne Williams. The concert will 
feature the works of Daniele Gasparini, 
Arthur Honegger, and Ernest Bloch.Emmanuel Ax impressed the audience with his intricate keyboard solos and techniques.
Fiona Apples enchanting voice transcends cold
by Joey TagueCo-Dossier Literary Editor
The audience really felt Fiona 
Apples pain at A.J. Palumbo last 
Monday night. Between her excep
tional lyrics, she coughed and 
clutched at her throat, obviously 
suffering from a terrible cold. After 
sitting at the piano for On the 
Bound she claimed she was in a 
weird mood. By the third song, she 
changed it to sick mood. She 
struggled through Criminal 
coughing and cursing at herself, but 
stood up to the challenge (with a lit
tle help from throat spray and hot 
tea). She literally stared down the 
microphone and then attacked it, 
like a feline catching prey, with her 
singing. Suddenly, her spectacular 
music and lyrics began to come out 
stronger and stronger. The cough 
ceased and the show was near flaw
less from then on.
Her current tour is a part of the 
promotion for her second album, When the Pawn..., which has gone 
down in history as the longest 
album title ever, coming in at a total 
of 96 words (it is an entire poem she 
wrote). Her first set included 
almost every track from the sopho
more release but she did include 
some songs from her debut CD, Tidal. Unfortunately, she didnt sing 
the sensual Slow Like Honey or 
the song that helped kick off her 
career, Shadowboxer. But the new
album has songs just as good. When the Pawn... is a music explosion, 
touching on various types of style 
and emotion. The eclectic variety of 
tracks makes it as brilliant as Tidal 
and there is a sense of unmistakable 
beauty which is truly Fiona. Both 
discs are essential components to 
any music collection.
Fionas blend of the old and new 
songs was laid out nicely in perfor
mance. She silenced the entire 
arena with Love Ridden and 
Sullen Girl as she pecked away 
magnificently on the keys. The pas
sion she drew up with those tunes 
was right on target. Then she got 
people dancing in their seats as she 
belted out speedier tracks like 
Limp and Fast as You Can.
Her personality reflects the music 
and lyrics she writes. Her attitude 
on stage roller coasters through the 
different songs she sings. She 
caresses the microphone and 
squints her beautiful blue eyes with 
her slower ballads and then undu
lates her entire body during the 
faster musical interludes. She wrig
gles like a snake-the music appears 
to flow from her stationary toes and 
shoot out of her writhing arms. The 
dancing is a style all her own and 
manages to fit her music perfectly.
There was only a little stage ban
ter, but between shyness and sick
ness, it was understandable as to 
why. She came back for a second 
set, as people flocked from their 
seats to the front of the stage. She
sang only two more songs, both cov
ers, and left, apologizing again for 
her illness. Everything Fiona does is 
simple, yet incredibly beautiful. She 
recovered from a coughing fit to pull 
off a stunning performance. Fiona 
is a rare treat. In todays world of 
cookie-cutter groups who dont 
even write their own music, she 
stands out as one of the few
singer/songwriters who care about 
what they do for a living. She gives 
a little piece of herself on stage and 
when she sings, you can connect 
with the humanism in the music. It 
is quite comforting to know that she 
feels exactly like you do, or did, in at 
least one of her songs. She sings for, 
from, and to the heart.
Students musical ambitions 
reach from New York to L.A.
courtesy Sony Records
Fiona Apple, despite being sick, captivated her audience in Pittsburghs arena
WAITE, from page LI 
Thats something I love. There are 
some times when in the middle of 
writing a piece, youre thinking, 
what the hell am I composing? But 
you know, nine out of ten times the 
end result is amazing.
7T: When did you decide you 
wanted to get involved with film 
scoring?AW: I definitely got involved 
with music in high school. I got 
some of my friends to start play
ing my music, but what really 
made me think about film scoring 
was something that happened 
between my freshman and sopho
more years at CMU. I was in a 
crowded movie theater, looking 
around at all the people that were 
so intensely captivated by what 
they were watching. And I 
thought to myself, that is the only 
art form that can really do that! 
Its pretty amazing when you 
think about it. I said to myself, 
Wow, I need to get involved in 
this. To watch Out of Courage 2 
and to know its your music being 
drawn into everythingthats a 
pretty cool feeling.TT: Do you have any future pro
jects you are working on?AW: Well, I am finishing up my 
orchestra piece for a requirement 
for my senior thesis, and I will do a 
couple more jazz band pieces. The 
jazz band director, a very cool g^iy, 
from day one has totally been my 
encouragement. I want to get in as
much work with him as possible 
before I am done.TT: So once you are out of school 
completely, how do you get into this 
sort of career, of film scoring?AW: Good question. I have some 
theories about this. Its all about 
connections pretty much, when it 
comes down to it, you can be the 
best composer in the world but 
you need to know people. 
Internships have everything to do 
with it, I did one in L.A., with 
some guys who were finishing up Aramageddons film score. My deal 
is going to grad school, and then 
to two places-New York and Los 
Angeles, I dont like L.A. I grew up 
in the east coast and L.A. seems 
too bizarre. I plan to settle in new 
York, and they do set you up with 
film-scoring and producers, they 
know your background and pre
pare you for it. I have gotten con
nections in Pittsburgh, but my 
plan now is to meet people in New 
York. It will be interesting to see 
how it all works out.TT: Any particular kind of film 
that youre interested in?AW: I do like the action movies, 
but a good drama would be nice. 
Anything really. I prefer to do things 
that are well-done. If I am fortunate 
enough to make it in this career I 
know I will have to do things I dont 
like, and in this country there are a 
lot of bad films! I want to be seri
ously proud of not only the music I 
am doing.
617/353-6000 '
Session 1: May 23-July 1 
Session 2: July 5-August 12 
Twelve-Week Session: May 23-August 12
'IfI rqu-tl opportunity, [/irnijtiir lUlion i/tnitunon

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  MARCH 13, 2000
Look for more Universal
Studios experiences
this summer!
The tingling taste lifts your spirits, and your friends take it from there
UNIVERSAL MUSIC
Special Markets
Buy an ice cold can of
Coca-Cola classic
from specially marked
on-campus vending
machines and you
could win an exclusive
Universal Music CD.
Offer ends
March 31. 2000.
CMUs new Wrestling Club sponsors an exciting show, Wrestlemania 2000
by Rebecca FribushContributing Editor
Sibling rivalries, RA-resident disputes, 
'and grudges between professors are usual
ly settled in singularly undramatic and 
roundabout ways. But last weekend, peo'ple worked through all of these conflicts 
and more using the most direct method 
..possible - getting down and dirty in front 
of a large, screaming audience.
. This opportunity was brought about by 
Wrestlemania 2000, a fund-raiser spon
sored by CMUs new Wrestling Club. 
Dozens of people packed into McConomy 
Auditorium last Saturday afternoon to see 
seven different matches that ranged from 
theatrical arm-wrestling between profes
sors to athletic bouts between student 
members of the Wrestling Club.
The show, emceed by co-presidents of 
the Wrestling Club Matthew Brake, a 
sophomore mechanical engineering 
major, and Jorge Chavier, a sophomore 
computer science major, began with a 
fierce fight between chemistry professor
O. Williams. These people are too old to 
wrestle for real, so theyll just be armwrestling, announced Chavier at the 
onset of the match. In good World 
Wrestling Federation fashion, the two 
contenders colorfully insulted each 
other while getting down to business. 
This man spent his entire life trying to 
prove that one plus one equals three  
for very large values of one, sneered 
Karol of Williams at one point. Despite 
such crushing verbal blows, Williams 
won the match, beating Karol in 2 out of 
3 rounds.
The next fight pitted Hamerschlag CA 
and senior mechanical engineering 
major Ken Gould against Brake, a 
Hamerschlag RA. Brake wrestled with
out changing out of the button-down 
shirt and tie he was wearing, and man
aged to win. Up after that was sopho
more mechanical engineering major and 
Donner RA Victoria Bracco against one 
of her residents, first-year CIT student 
Elba-Gloria Rangel-Erazo. Rangel-Erazo 
won that match.
As a break from all the physical activity,
gave a brief talk. The talk, billed as an 
explanation of how wrestlers psych each 
other out, turned out to consist mainly of 
tongue-in-cheek jokes (Whats the best 
four years of a college wrestlers life? 
Third grade.), but the laughing audience 
didnt seem to mind at all.
After Kotovsky had finished, Chavier 
climbed into the ring to beat his younger 
brother, first-year computer science stu
dent Jean-Alfred Chavier. Next it was 
time for one of the most publicized 
matches of the afternoon, as math pro
fessor John Tolle faced off against com
puter science professor Klaus Sutner. 
Brake seemed to have fun introducing 
them, describing Tolles weight as a hun
dred and thirty pounds, completely 
attributable to donuts and announcing 
that Sutner was on the Olympic sockdarning team and enjoys mind-numbing 
bock beer. Sutner looked tough and 
ready to fight in a tight black t-shirt and 
black pants, while Tolle went for the 
deceptively casual look in a worn-looking 
t-shirt and cutoffs, with a bandanna tied 
over his long hair.
taunted each other dramatically using the 
harshest, most personal means of attack 
possible at CMU - insulting the other per
sons choice of operating system. Youre 
not going to be able to bring your 
Macintosh into the ring with you, said 
Tolle to Sutner. Someone left their copy 
of DOS for Dummies in the math depart
ment, responded Sutner in kind. The two 
made use of acrobatic maneuvers - at one 
point, Sutner slung Tolle over his shoulder 
and spun him around, while Tolle kept 
pushing Sutner down so he cartwheeled 
across the floor. Finally, Tolle was 
declared the victor.
The next fight featured first-year archi
tecture student Darren Chan, who won 
against sophomore chemical engineering 
major Steve Mahalec. The finale was a bat
tle described as the annual RA death 
match of Hamerschlag. The two 
Hamerschlag RAs were business adminis
tration junior Harry Tsang, who won, and 
senior social and decision sciences major 
Adam Baldwin.
While theatrical WWF-style wrestling 
was prominently on display at
Paul Karol and math professor William psychology professor Kenneth Kotovsky To the delight of the audience, the two Wrestlemania, the Wrestling Club itself Godfrey.
generally focuses on a more purely athlet
ic version of the sport. In fact, 
Wrestlemania, which club members hope 
will become an annual event, was intend
ed to raise money so the club can buy their 
own practice mats instead of having to 
borrow them from the school as they cur
rently do. Brake used his status as an RA to 
enlist other Hamerschlag student advi
sors, while the professors were added to 
attract students campus-wide. Other 
Wrestling Club plans, according to Brake, 
include going to several freestyle meets in 
the next few months.
The club considered its first event a 
success. We got a pretty good turnout 
and the professors did a great job, so 
were happy, said Brake. The, audience 
appreciated Wrestlemania as well. Some 
had suggestions for next year. I want to 
see some H&SS professors go at it, said 
junior political science major Tanya Tarr. 
Others saw even larger roles for wrestling 
in the CMU community. I think we need 
to see this kind of thing integrated into 
the course curriculum, said sophomore 
computer science major Brighten
Housing search begins 
for students at CMU
Less Stress?
by Emily Landes
Every year I make a promise to 
myself that I am not going to let it 
happen again. I am not going to 
leave myself in that same vulner
able, insecure position I find 
myself in every year. I am going to 
be prepared, and even more than 
'that I am going to be aggressive, 
and I am going to get what I want, 
when I want .it. I say it every year, 
I pledge it to myself, in a com
manding voice: This year will be 
different.
But, somehow I have broken 
this vow yet again and I am left to 
meekly ask you all what I have 
-been asking every single person I 
'.know: Um, do you guys know 
what youre doing for housing 
, next year?
Thats right, March 15th is fast
approaching and you all know 
what that means-Room Draw. 
Even though I havent been 
involved in Room Draw since 
freshman year, it seems that it 
marks the time when people, on 
and off campus, suddenly get 
serious about housing. The posts 
for roommates appear on the 
bboards, the local landlords 
posters go up, and suddenly the 
veritable ghost town that is the 
Housing Office has a line ten 
deep.
Of course, there are some 
cheaters. Students who just retain 
their rooms, or stay in their old 
apartments and houses, thus 
missing out on all of this fun. But, 
I firmly believe that college is the 
last place to retain anything, even 
your room. Instead, its a time to 
try as many new experiences as 
See HOUSING, page L4
UC Art Gallery features latest 
exhibit, Window on the Future
by Behnam FarahpourContributing Editor
We have always tried to 
predict the future and 
express it in some way. 
There have been a lot of 
movies made that try to 
depict it in dark or very won
derful tones. Artists have 
always drawn, painted, 
sculpted, or created art 
pieces that predict what the 
future will be like. They 
have accomplished their 
goal if they can predict even 
one moment of what is yet to 
come. Last weeks exhibit at 
the UC Art Gallery Window 
on the Future, displayed 
from March 7 through 11, 
tried to make such predic
tions.
The exhibit displayed 
works from five Carnegie 
Mellon students who dis
played their personal inter
pretation on what the future 
has in store for us. Ziva 
Borlja, a junior art major, 
represented the biomedical 
technology in future with 
his piece, Mother and Child. 
The piece shows a mother 
with a gas mask connected 
to her babys head with gray 
wire. The baby is made out 
of brown material not defin
ing the body of the baby, 
only its head. The piece has 
a dark perspective. Imagine 
if all babies someday look 
like this, or all of our brain is 
exposed like the mothers. 
This might very well be the' 
future, but are we ready to 
accept this untraditional
method of baby care? 
Maybe our grandchildren 
will be like this. After all, 
there are no definite right or 
wrong answers when mak
ing predictions. Works like 
these dont depict tomorrow 
or two years from now but 
years and years ahead of us.Works, by Michael Jehn, a 
first -year architecture stu
dent, gives impressions of a 
future in the years to come. 
His renderings of skyscrap
ers, of a world with the 
tallest buildings, show a 
world with great technology 
and very little green envi
ronment. Imagine a world 
that is like New York City but 
in much bigger scale.
Yet the other works, such 
as The. Dress, by Laura 
See UC, page L4An interesting interpretation of a futuristic face.

---------------------------------------------------

L4THE TARTAN  MARCH 13, 2000
AmtrakStudent Advantage9 
Members receive25% OFF
Students receive 
10% OFF with 
student ID
 Student Advantage Members* get an additional 10% OFF the already discounted fare of 15% when you present 
this coupon and your Student Advantage Card.
* Non-Student Advantage Members receive io% OFF your 
fare when you present this coupon and your student ID.Name:
To join Student Advantage call i.800.96.AMTRAK.
Offer applies to coach rail faics only and cannot be combined with any other promotional 
fares. Not valid on Acelar Metrollner* or certain Thru way services. Offer and destinations 
subject to change without not ice. Tickets must be booked and ticketed February 11 through 
March 31.2000, for travel February 11 through June 10,2000. Blackout dates April ar through 
24.2000.0rlginal coupon must be surrendered at time of ticket purchase. No photocopy of 
coupon accepted. Not redeemable for cash. Other restrictions may apply.
TRAVEL AGENTS: access your GDS for complete detail?: G/PRO/TEN/P1-P8; Sabre. 
Y/PRO/TEN/Pr-P8. Attach coupon to auditors coupon; If electronically reporting, attach to 
agent coupon. All Travel and Amtrak Ticketing Agents please return a copy of the coupon 
to: Amtrak National Marketing, 10 G Street, NE 3rd Floor, Washington, DC 20002.
arc # 8554 270 0000 0212 Mention Code: Ho2i
* Regular Student Advantage discount is 15%.
Address:..
City:.......
E-mail:...
State.
Student Advantage # :
St'JIaasBHm
Contact Eugene Tseytlin at (412) 624-7070 
tseytlin@pitt.edu
Carnegie Almanac
50 YEARS AGO
March 14,1950 - The administra
tion announced that housing rental 
rates for the following year would 
increase. With costs increasing for 
several years, they said that they 
could no longer delay raising prices. 
The average increase in rates would 
be 15%, up to $200 per year. 
According to the administration, 
averages at other colleges are 
between $200 and $220 per year 
and range from $120 to $380. CITs 
new rates would range from $124 to 
$268.
25 YEARS AGO
March 18, 1975 - WRCT selected 
Marius Misiunas as its new program 
director. He brought with him plans 
for dynamic format changes to the 
station. Among Misiunas goals was 
establishing consistency in pro
gramming and eliminating prere
corded public service announce
ments so that disc jockeys could 
establish a better rapport with lis
teners. Reaction to Misiunas plan 
was generally favorable, but some 
students expressed concern that he 
would have too much work.
10 YEARS AGO
March 13,1990 - Student Senate 
put seven posters for Senate Happy 
Hour on the doors of Baker and 
Doherty Halls. They violated the 
campus poster policy in effect earli
er in the semester. According to 
Senate leaders, the mistake was an
unfortunate result of miscommunication between members of Senates 
Public Relations Committee. 
Senate representatives said the per
son who put up the posters did not 
know that posters could only be 
placed on designated campus bul
letin boards.
FIVE YEARS AGO
March 13, 1995 - More than 70 
students stood in a circle by the 
fence and held candles to show their 
support for victims of sexual assault 
and rape. Four CMU students orga
nized the event in honor of a friend 
who had been raped on campus. 
They wanted to raise awareness and 
remind people that rape does hap
pen at CMU, and that crime statis
tics misled students into believing 
that no rapes happened on campus 
during the previous five years.
ONE YEAR AGO
March 15, 2000 - The Morewood 
Basement neared its completion as 
plans began to convert it into a stu|- 
dent hangout. Gullifts would b 
the food vendor for the location and 
would serve sandwiches, hot foods, 
lunches, and desserts. The space', 
which would accommodate up to 
200 people, was designed to have 
multiple levels and be a casual envi
ronment.
Compiled by 
Seth Mandel
CHALLENGING PROGRAMMING 
POSITIONS IN BRAIN IMAGING
University of Pittsburgh neuropsychology 
group seeks strong C/C++ and/or Java 
programmer to develop state-of-the-art 
brain imaging tools. Positions involve user 
interface, statistical, image processing and 
systems programming in Unix environment.
Thursday, April 27th 
12:30 - 3:00 p.m.
to host a group of 9 to15 year-old young women attending
Take Our Daughters To Work Day
for more information or to volunteer 
contact Brenda Graham at brenda@andrew.cmu.edu
MAY 30-JULY B 
JUNE 2B-ALGL5T 3 
JULY lO-AUGUST IB
Tiiree six-week sessions 
A variety of 3, 4 and 8 week courses 
Undergraduate/Graduate courses 
Day, Evening and Saturday A.M. 
classes available
For a 2000 Summer Session Catalog, 
including registration procedures und 
form, phone (732)932-7565. Outside 
the 732 area code call 1-800-HI RUTGERS 
or 1-888-4RU SUMMER, or e-mail your
Courses also available at 
Freehold Colonial Campus 
Route 9 South 
and
Brookdale Community College 
Lincroft
UC art piece suggests what the future holds in store
UC, from page L3
Nelson, a sophomore art student, or The Bench by Ryan Stahlman .seem to be works 
that express a future that is much closer to 
our time. Stahlmans bench is made with a lot 
of details in the joints where its more for aes
thetic reasons than functionality of the bench. 
Maybe the future aesthetic of complex 
designs is more desirable than the simple and 
timeless designs.Alife and Marvin, created by Mortimer 
Lebigre and Tom Lin, senior art students, are 
two animated characters. Alife and Marvin 
tackle complex issues, such as faith, with 
humor. This piece gives a different perspec
tive on how faith and preaching will change 
in the future. The animations are made in 
very simple drawings which bring more atten
tion to the subject rather than the art.
The exhibit gave very diverse forecasts. The 
issues that were brought up in the pieces disAn intricate portrait of a bench from the future, one of many exhibits featured at the UC gallery,
played are interesting ideas such as technolo- always attempted, to predict what the future
gy affecting mother and child relationships or will be like; many times they have been right,
technology affecting environment or even Time will only tell how accurate these artists
complex designs of products. Artists have are in their predictions.
CMU students overwhelmed by housing search
HOUSING, from page L3
you can squeeze into our short time here. As 
stich, staying in the same place two years in a 
row may lessen immediate stress, but it also 
seems like a missed opportunity. Really, when 
else are you going to get a chance to live with 
different people, in different locations, every 
year?
It is because of this attitude that my parents 
want to kill me. Having moved me from 
Morewood, to an apartment, to a different 
apartment down the hall from my old apart
ment, they cringed when I mentioned the 
word house this year. My mother is con
vinced that I will freeze to death rather than 
pay the high heating bills that a house 
requires, and my dad firmly believes that 
every landlord out there is one of the devils 
minions. After I indicated that, despite their 
well-intentioned warnings, I was going to 
look for a house anyway, they wiped their 
hands of the whole situation. Let us know 
when you sign a lease, they told me.
I would love to let them know, but unfortu
nately signing that elusive lease has been hard
er than I initially anticipated. First of all, a 
house requires more people than just me and 
my current roommate. This means beginning 
the arduous process of trying to find new 
roommates.
Is there a situation that is more painfully sen
sitive than asking one of your friends if they 
would like to live with you, of trying to figure - 
out a way to ask with enough interest to convey 
your seriousness, and enough detachment to 
assure them that you wont get insulted if they 
say no? Only one: having a friend that you 
dont want to live with ask you to live with 
them. Anyone who has ever had this happen to 
them can join me in saying, yikes. There is only 
one thing to do in that situation: Fake some 
sort of temporary hearing impairment and run 
like the wind.
But even assuming that you can find enough 
compatible people to live with, thats only half 
the battle. The real problem is finding a place
that is close to campus, has a landlord who 
allows more than three unrelated people to live 
there, and still leaves you with enough money 
to pay what I am assured will be an astronomi
cal heating bill. To anyone who has been able 
to do this in years past, please let me know. 
And include in that message where this house 
is located and how many of your roommates 
plan on staying next year. Maybe we can work 
something out.
Because despite all my good intentions, and I 
did have so very many of them, and promises to 
myself, I have learned something from this 
whole experience. Promises made to yourself 
are really, really easy to break. So, instead I say 
to all of you: I will have a place to live this time 
next month. Really, I promise.
Emily Landes would like you to talk amongst yourselves and figure out who will be responsible for sending her email to remind her to find roommates and a house. She blames you if she ends up homeless.
Get on trak!
Visit your local travel agent or call 1-800-USA-RAIL 
to make your reservation.
- _______:_____
it SIAtt UN IVI. K2IV Of NtWJIMSCV . S>..RUTGERS -fc.
Division ol Summer Session191 College Ave.  PJew Brunswick, NJ 0890t-8546 web site: http.V/summersession.rutyers.edu

---------------------------------------------------

Carnegie Mellon
PLuE NAbAMM
IT'S HERE!!
IT'S HERE!!
ITS HERE!!
ITS HERE!!
PLE NAbAMM
Leet rsoshEdei
March 13 -16, 2000
J.Co Jmpu t.in.gomsp tsse
Questions?
Contact Housing Services 
at 268-2139 or via email at 
univhous@andrew.cmu.edu 
or our web page at 
www.housing.cmu.edu/
ALLOCATIONS
Special Allocaiton of S50 to Mock Trial Team 
to go to Regionals at University of Maryland
Special Allocation of$850 to Volleyball Club to 
go to the National Championship Tournament
Special Allocation of $500 to SAE to build a 
buggy
Special Allocation of S1000 to EMS for a new 
computer
Special Allocation of $1300 to Singapore 
Student Association to build a booth
STUDENTSENATEUPDATE
COMMITTEES
Academic Affairs
 Investigating CSW effectiveness
 Book Store Task Force will present findings in the 
near future
Campus Affairs
 Working on an online room reservation system 
for student organizations
 Working on outdoor basketball courts
 Health Care Database to be compiled
 Attempting to get email terminals in the UC
Public Relations
 Check out our radio show Mondays from 6-7 pm 
on 88.3 WRCT.
Looking into coupons for food at carnival for 
students who vote in elections
 Attending a promotions fair 3/8 to get ideas for
Orientation packets ,
ANNOUNCEMENTS
Student Government elections will be April 
10, 11, & 12. Keep your eyes open for 
announcements about petitions.
Please visit our bboard 
(cmu.student.govemment) and our webpage 
(www.andrew.cmu.edu/~ss2p)
We welcome new senators and members at 
large!
SCS: Michael Vitalo 
S1A; Ariand Marathe 
C1T: Javier Lorenzo 
CFA: Lara Hoke (Member at Large)
HSS: Brian Namey (Member at Large)
No increase in PAT fees for next year
Students will receive a 514 refund from the 
university from their PAT fees that will appear 
in their student accounts.
Find your final exam schedule at 
http://www.cmu.edu/hub/sOO-finals.html
On The New Economy
The Lally School at Rensselaer. 
Business savvy for a world gone digital
The MBA@Rensselaer
kvLALLYSCHOOL
AT RENSSELAER
Management
and technology.
Application
and innovation.
why not changa the world?
Rensselaer
55dDLLj/jjSy.44jPidQP6ua pRgPmFcPcpgc

---------------------------------------------------

The shroud of secrecy 
accomplishes two things
1) It keeps our technical solutions our technical solutions.
2) It gives us an excuse to whisper in public.
We wish we could broadcast every last detail about the technology that's being 
developed here. But you can only divulge so much when you're trying to do what's 
never been done before. So instead, we invite you to do this: Visit our site. Look at 
the features. Consider the performance tradeoffs and scaling challenges. Imagine 
the database-driven technology and world class back-end systems we've developed 
to please millions of customers. Then, let your mind wander about the underlying 
challenges our software and web development teams focus on each day.
What we're working on is big. So, we've pulled together some of the smartest 
people around, given them the audacious goal of driving the evolution of e-commerce, 
and asked them to make it all look easy.
There's no better place to learn about e-commerce. Just remember to keep your 
voices low.
Software Development Interns 
Web Development Interns
Our college relations team will be at your school soon. If you're interested in a 
summer internship in beautiful Seattle, please submit your resume to your career 
center orto: campus@amazon.com.
www.amazon.com/campusamazon.com.
Amazon.com is an Equal 
Opportunity Employer
Work hard. Have fun. Make history.
Best Rates. Best W6j6.5Q4IP zQ35 4P
ZapTel.com gives you the best selection and the lowest 
rates on phone cards to call anywhere you want. Plus, well 
zap a virtual phone card to you online which you can 
print instantly. Call to anywhere in the U.S. and many 
countries in Asia and Europe for as little as 2(/minute with 
a minimal connect charge. We provide full disclosure about 
each card so there are no surprises. Buy online with credit 
card or e-check. Go to www.zaptel.com and save instantly!
* 40C per call connect charge and 09c monthly service fee apply. ZapTel also offers 
pnone cards with no connect charge
ZAP. Now 12,086 3.$wvyh
University Center Allocation Board 
Space Proposal
Below is the proposal for office, cabinet and East Campus Garage cage space for the 2000-2002 
academic years based on the applications received the University Center Allocation Board 
(UCAB). Organizations may appeal the UCAB decision by directing email to Denise Fazio 
Cfazio@andrew.cmu.edu') by March 15, 2000.
2000-2002 Office Recommendations
Room NumberOrganization
302Gaming Club
303AIVCF, Singapore Students' Association (SSA), and 
Agape Christian Ministry
303BNSBE and ARCC
303CAlpha Phi Omega
303DJewish University Center, Taiwanese Student 
Association (TSA) and Asian Student Association (ASA)
304Graduate Student Assembly
306Student Dormitory Council
310Thistle
312Spring Carnival, Tau Beta Pi and East End Tutoring
314Tartan
316Activities Board
318AScotch n' Soda
318BInternational Student Union and KGB
318CInternational Relations Organization (IRO) and Oakland 1
318DSIAM and Mayur
318ECircle K, Panhellenic, Interfraternity Council and Greek
318FFilmmaking
320Student Senate
LL03WRCT
2000-2002 East Campus Garage Cage Recommendation
Caae# OrganizationCage #Organization
1KGB10Baseball and LINCC
2Asian Students Association11Mayur
3IVCF12AB Tech
4Singapore Students' Association13Spring Carnival
5Scotch n' Soda
6Scotch n' Soda15Jewish University Center
7Cycling Club16SIAM
8Taiwanese Student Association17Circle K
9APhiO
2000-2002 Cabinet Recommendations 
Organization
Filmmaking; Circle K; Ballroom ; Oakland Review; LINCC; SASA; ASA; SIAM;
Agape Christian Ministry; Voices United; College Bowl; Earth; Objectivist Club; Origami;
AB Tech (UC 228 closet)
Carnegie Mellon HOUSINu SERVICES
iff? 200ARE YOU LOOKING FORSUMMER 
EMPLOYMENT?
SALARY RANGE $5.15 - $9.25
StudenA vagMemad brd dussag 
ciVyolic1- oVVo8-01U-Ucv 
U1 -Sc RoyyoIU1L k8ckv.
W/QIr.IH 
i5rrLI/Ho 45L/IQ 
i5I2.3.I6. 45L/IQ 
T.u e.3s/6. 
da6/y/H/. aI pa/IH.IaI6. 
m.I.3ay l22/6.
Applications are available in the 
Housing Services Office, 
Morewood Gardens E-Tower 
or on our web page (www.housing.cmu.edu/).
Questions? 
Contact Housing Services at 268-2139 or 
via email at univhous@andrew.cmu.edu

---------------------------------------------------

auto industry is going to take a helluva lot more than HTML
-
If you ar, and you come to work for carOrder,
you will receive an annual salary of and a new, 2000
SATUTRDUYMaMrc
You owe it to yourself to look at carOrder 
.... no matter where you think you're headed next year.
?
Please submit resumes immediately to
cannonball@carorder.com or fax at (5 12)794-8 170 
For more information about carOrder, 
please visit http://www.cannonball.carorder.com
We're sorry we're so late to campus.
x6,r 65I544 fayS faQjuQI3 5f? fQ336y5 u45 .4s 65P
carOrder.com' caKDrder.com is a trademark of carOrder.com, Inc. Ail other trademarks and tradenames are the property of their respective owners.
cerOrder.com,
the industry's first automotive e-dealer, is building a team to put carOrder on the 
path towards becoming the undisputed leader in car purchasing, a $340 billion 
market. carOrder is looking for the top five technical candidates across the 
country to join the "Cannonball Run," a venture to grow the next set of 
technological innovators. These five developers will have the opportunity to work 
on everything from building the infrastructure for a complex scheduling and
logistics problem to integrating with the largest e-commerce portals.
Are you one of them?

---------------------------------------------------

%OF ALSOF
1942 A.D.
Seeing what isnt there. Then creating it. 
Thats what we do. Its that simple.
Inventors Wanted
lamam'lHl
Information SessionMarch 15 
7:00pm - 9:00pmPorter Hall 226B ^
E InterviewMarch 16Career Center JJk
WALK
Digital
691 3TheTea1 rtn ih su1daetTw
www.walkerdigital.com EOE M/F/D/V.

---------------------------------------------------

13 March 2000
'Of'Ri Ai.-u.
ftft./AIVt'
Justin Suissa/Art EditorEditor Photosof Azizan Az
by Sriram GollapalliScience & Technology Editor
Imagine working at your desk, 
and suddenly the clouds part to 
reveal the bright sunlight glaring 
on your screen. Automatically, 
blinds lower to block the sunlight, 
and you feel a cool breeze by your 
side. All a dream? Not at all at the
7,000-square foot Robert L. 
Preger Intelligent Workplace at 
the top of Margaret Morrison 
Carnegie Hall.
This workplace has four basic 
goals: to provide individual com
fort and productivity, organization
al flexibility, technological adapt
ability, and environmental sustain
ability. The idea is to have the user 
in control of his or her own envi
ronment without too much train
ing or conditioning.
The Intelligent Workplace is the 
;collaborative effort of the
NSF/IUCRC Center for Building 
Performance and Diagnostics at 
darnegie Mellon University and the 
Advanced Building Systems
Integration Consortium (ABSIC), a 
Consortium dedicated to improv
ing the quality of a workplace envi
ronment.
In most organizations, places 
are not stationary, said Rohini 
Brahme, researcher at the
Intelligent Workplace. Needs of
the spaces change with time.
There are water mullions that 
have hot or cold water flow 
through them to set the tempera
ture during the appropriate sea
sons. There are lots of natural light 
conditions, and electric lights are 
only used at night. No heat or air 
conditioning is used when the 
weather outside is pleasant.
The weather station on top of the 
building constantly monitors wind 
speed, wind direction, and air tem
perature. Researchers can monitor 
these conditions .adjust comfort.
There are light sensors through
out the workplace to control the 
lights; if it gets too dark, the lights 
automatically turn on. Each work
station has a Personal Environment 
Module (PEM) that has settings to 
control the air, individual task 
lights, ambient white noise (for 
more privacy), and light louvers 
(for the sunlight). Each worksta
tion also comes with a remote con
trol to change the settings for the 
blinds, overhead lights, and task 
lighting. There are partitioning 
modules that double as file cabi
nets to store materials and provide 
privacy for workers.
Researchers explore various 
types of projects at the workplace. 
One group is conducting a study of 
ventilation in space and how air 
flow helps out conditioning of the 
environment.
The Intelligent Workplace team 
is working on projects in Germany 
to apply the same principles. They 
are working on the Mercedes Benz 
Marketing Academy in Birkensfeld, 
Germany as well as a new construc
tion for a utility company in 
France.
The team is working on 
self-aware building projects, 
where the user is the main person 
in control of his or her settings and 
workspace. In some cases you can 
do it yourself instead of having to 
call facilities management, said 
Brahme. We are eventually work
ing on an interface on the Web 
where all of these functions could 
be controlled.
Right now most of controls in the 
building are reactive. For example, 
if it gets too sunny, the blinds will 
close. We would like to try to pre
dict these conditions for the next 
few hours into tlie future, and have 
an appropriate control strategy to 
deal with these new conditions 
with either machine learning or 
neural networking, said Brahme.
Not everything is perfect yet. 
Some challenges still need to be 
worked out such as acoustics and 
getting all of funding to complete 
the project, said Brahme. But 
this is a great place to work. I had 
no clue what was happening 
when I worked in Wean Halldid
nt know if it was snowing or rain
ing. 
Another major research project is 
called the Building Investment 
Decision Support tool. This tool 
will ^pply principles used in the 
Intelligent Workplace to be applied 
for consulting and technology 
transfer. This will provide system 
integration ideas for more real 
world buildings, said Robert Ries, 
faculty member. There is currently 
a high demand for corporate head
quarters.
These buildings are much more 
cost effective and cheaper in the 
long term, said Paul Mathew, 
senior researcher. Happiness lev
els are also high for workers and 
researchers here.
They worked on the new PNC 
operations center in Pittsburgh. 
We helped with the air control 
system, shading devices, said 
Matjhew. We also helped to ana
lyze skylights and atriums. We 
constructed miniature modules to 
analyze the lighting available to 
these areas. We have taken the past 
ten years to develop and under
stand these concepts, and now we 
are deploying the research into 
consulting projects and other relat
ed buildings, said Mathew.
One project in the developing 
stages is the construction of a
30,000-square foot extension to 
Margaret Morrison Carnegie Hall.
These are bleeding edge pro
jects with intelligent demands and 
reduced energy and environmental 
costs. They would like to demon
strate and generate all of the ener
gy within the building through 
solar photovoltaic cells and fuelpowered motors, effectively
ed energy from the high grad' 
source could be directed toward 
a lower consumption source. Th* 
building would be an incubato 
for researchers, faculty, and stu 
dents to conduct research ant 
work in.
Hydrogen 
Bio Gas
"Waste Heat"
Fuel CellElectrical Energy
Gas Turbine ^ Electrical Energy
Steam Turbine Electrical Energy
AbsorptionHeating/Cooling
Hot Water
Mike Zimmer/Dossier Design Editc
Conceptual model of how energy can be used efficiently in the proposed addi
tion to Margaret Morrison Carnegie Hall
unplugging the building from the 
surrounding environment.
The plan is to maximize energy 
efficiency. By using an efficient 
energy model, the building can 
maximize and use its generated 
energy. There are different grades 
of energy created. A high grade 
energy would be used to provide 
electricity to the entire facility. 
This would not be needed for. 
heating a cup of coffee. The wast
Most of the designs are very cos 
effective, said Mathew. There is ; 
slightly higher initial cost, but ove: 
the life cycle of the building, mucl 
more energy and costs are con 
served.
The researchers are extremeh 
happy with the working environ 
ment. Overall a delightful place t< 
work, we can manipulate the win 
dows and adjust light settings fo: 
my comfort, said Mathew.
Rats with a sense of humor X-Ray telescope helps to study our galaxys history
Most people agree that rats are 
ho laughing matter, but now it 
seems they are wrong. It appears 
that there is nothing a rat likes 
better than a good'giggle.
Evidence of mirth among mam
mals has been sadly lacking - 
until now, that is. Researchers at 
Bowling Green University in 
Ohio have discovered that a Ca 
tickled rat is a happy''rat.
Apparently, tickling u 
makes a rat produce an 
extremely high pitched & 
whistle - a rat giggle - 
.well outside the 
range of human 
hearing.
Although scientists have been 
aware of this chirping sound for 
^.some time, it was thought to 
Signal distress or aggres
sion. But this new study
- shows that young rats not 
,-pnly chirp vigorously while 
flaying with each other, but also
make this sound far more often 
than their senior rodent relatives. 
The theory is that rats and other 
animals use laughter to distin
guish playfulness from aggres
sion.
No wonder you say cheese to 
smile.
Source: National Public Radio.
Reagan Heller/Art Staff
by Marissa StallerJunior Staffwriter
Who has never looked up at the 
night sky and breathed in the won
der of the infinitude? Who has 
never marveled, and tried to imag
ine and understand, the science 
beneath the beauty of the blanket of 
night?
For the non-specialist, the 
prospect of learning abbut t^.e -St^s;: 
is not as immediate as simply 
observing them. The quality of 
observation at CMU isnt as high as 
it could be, considering that Richard 
Griffiths, professor of astrophysics 
at the University, developed the 
detectors for the worlds most pow
erful X-ray telescope.
Partnered with NASA, Griffiths 
and his team developed the 
Chandra X-ray Observatory. The 
joint project was launched into 
space last July. This telescope is 
stronger than any other X-ray tele
scope ever made. It can detect radi
ation at extremely minute levels.
When a star explodes, the release 
of energy that had supported the 
outer layers of the star stops, and 
without that support, the star col
lapses like a balloon suddenly 
depleted of air. The collapse of the 
entire mass of the star onto its core 
releases a burst of energy that 
rebounds from the center as a mas, sive . shock wave, bursting our
 metaphorical balloon and throwing 
off its shell, which becomes a multimillion-degree gas called a superno
va remnant. The hot gas will contin
ue to expand and emit radiation for 
thousands of years.
Combined with state of the art 
technology, the observatory can 
reveal up to fifty times more detail 
than any other X-ray telescope. 
Indeed, the observatory has the 
capacity to capture images of 
ancient galaxies and matter, mil
liseconds before they are sucked 
into black holes, and gases that are
Courtesy NAS/
Chandra X-ray image of Messier 82. Multimillion degree gases flow out of the 
center over millions of years.
five million light-years across in 
width.
The Chandra X-ray observatory 
has a revolving power of 0.5 arc-seconds, which is the equivalent of the 
ability to read a stop sign twelve
miles away.
One of the observatorys most 
notable viewpoints is the core of oui 
nearest starburst galaxy, Messier 82 
(M82). At 11 million light years 
See CHANDRA, page Lll
Science ^Technology
THE TARTANPage L

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  MARCH 13. 2000
y Adam Steeleunior Staffwriter
From the days of the earlist computer networks peole have been playing video 
;ames with one another. 
Vith the rise of the Internet, 
nany new options became 
vailable. People played 
trategy and board games via 
tmail and set up elaboate systems for playing 
nteractive, multi
player persistent 
ext-based games. A 
lersistent game is one 
vhich continues to 
hange even when. 
nost of the players are 
lot present. These 
;ames allow people to 
og on and play; howev:r, the game does not 
:nd when you stop 
laying and you may 
eturn to find things 
'astly changed from 
vhen you left. But it 
vas not until the past 
ew years that multi
layer gaming was 
ruly introduced into 
he mainstream. Many 
;arly online networks 
;uch as Prodigy, 
CompuServe, and 
Vmerica Online supjorted a large communi.y of game players. But now 
vith bandwidth restrictions 
)eing relaxed thanks to high 
;peed Internet access, new 
ealms of possibilities are 
jeing opened.
The newest type of online 
jame is the Massively 
Vlultiplayer Online Game 
[MMOG). MMOGs imply 
:hat there are at least several 
lundred players all connectid to the same game world. 
These games are also, of 
:ourse, persistent. These 
5am.es come in a couple vari
eties. The best-known right 
low are the role-playing 
VIMOGs. Games in this genre 
include Ultima Online and
EverQuest. As computers 
became more powerful and 
bandwidth became more 
plentiful, several game com
panies realized it would be 
possible to create persistent 
worlds online involving 
thousands of players and 
also have beautifully-drawn 
graphics so that players 
might be able to experience 
these worlds in a whole new
multi-player focus than ever 
before. As an example, one 
game corporation, Blizzard 
Entertainment, has a gam
ing service called Battle.Net 
which is compatible with all 
their games such as 
StarCraft, WarCraft, and 
Diablo. Players may log on 
to the network for free and 
find opponents to play 
against. While the single
Chris Messina/Co-Production Manager
way. Because these games in 
general include a connection 
fee that the players must pay 
in addition to the initial 
cost of the game, many of 
these MMOGs have been 
fantastically good money
makers for their producers. 
This fact has drawn many 
new companies into the 
industry. A lot of new 
games are being developed 
in this same vein. These 
games will surely become 
more and more interactive, 
involved, and enthralling as 
they get larger and more 
detailed.
Strategy games are also 
gaining an even larger
player experience of many 
of todays strategy games is 
certainly enjoyable, the real 
fun for many people comes 
from playing real human 
opponents. It is this sort of 
service which has doubled 
or tripled .the longevity of 
many games which would 
ordinarily have been - interested in playing against 
deemed obsolete some time other people?
players, all making and 
breaking alliances in an 
effort to dominate the globe. 
There is also a game called 
Allegiance, by Microsoft, 
where perhaps a hundred 
players take one of 2 sides in 
a giant game similar to 
StarCraft, except that each 
ship is piloted by a real per
son, all being issued orders 
by a commander or team of 
commanders con
trolling the battle. 
These are just two 
examples of some 
of the amazing 
games that are on 
the horizon right 
now. Strategy 
games will continue 
to grow and 
become more and 
more realistic. Very 
soon these games 
will be on par with 
any military grade 
simulator out there.
Some companies 
are even abandon
ing single-player 
games altogether. 
Id, makers of Doom 
and Quake, for 
instance, totally 
abandoned a sin
gle-player mode in 
their most recent 
release, Quake 3. 
Instead they chose to 
focus on a fast paced and 
addictive multi-player game. 
Considering how easy it is to 
find people to play against, 
this may have been a very 
wise move. After all, why 
bother working on a single
player mode when most of 
the games fans are only
ago. . .... - '
The-future prospects for 
multiplayer strategy games 
are even more exciting. For 
instance, a game called 
Sovereign is being developed 
by Verant, the creators of 
EverQuest. Imagine a game 
of Risk with hundreds of
There is a whole realm of 
new possibilities opening 
now for multi-player gam
ing. Once there are more 
corporations with experi
ence in the making of these 
types of games, expect to 
see some truly amazing 
stuff.
THE GEEK BEAT
by Kevin Babbitt
One thing thats always struck me about the 
technology press is how quick it is to pass a death 
sentence on some product or company, and how 
wrong it usually is about these statements. I 
remember in the mid-80s the Grim Reaper sup
posedly was coming for the Commodore 64 in 
the face of dedicated gaming consoles like the 
Nintendo Entertainment System. But the good 
old 64 remained popular into the early 90s.
Then, for most of the 90s, Apple and the 
Macintosh were on the verge of dying in the face 
of IBM-compatible PC dominance. But Apple 
managed to turn itself around with the popular, 
friendly iMac and the powerhouse, cool-to-lookat G3s and G4s.
The latest theory Ive been hearing is that the 
end of the desktop PC is near. Everyone is 
singing the praises about the latest generation of 
portable computers, cellular telephones, and 
increasingly powerful personal digital assistants 
(PDAs). I certainly wont argue that these 
devices are playing an increasing role in how we 
work with data, but at the same time I dont 
think they are, or will become in the foreseeable 
future, a replacement for the desktop PC weve 
known for so long. The latest miniature devices 
are great for accessing and, to some degree, edit
ing data in a variety of situations, but in their 
zeal to pronounce the desktop dead, technology 
writers have forgotten that they, too, have sever
al useful features that will keep them alive for at 
least the next several years.
For example, while a laptop or palmtop is 
great for doing work away from the office, I 
wouldnt want to be tied to one permanently. I 
personally cant stand the tiny keyboards on lap
tops, and I find trackpads far less natural to use 
than a mouse. Furthermore, Ive never seen a 
laptop with a 17-inch screen, or any laptop 
screen that refreshes as quickly and cleanly as a 
cathode-ray tube. A laptop is great for what its 
made for  data to go  but for the long haul, I, 
and a lot of other people, I suspect, would be far 
more comfortable working on a desktop 
machine.
PDAs suffer from similar shortcomings. Ive 
gotten to the point where I can write Graffiti on 
my Palm III rather fluently, and its fine for not
ing when Im going to dinner, who Im going 
with, and what their phone number is, but Id 
hate to have to scribble out this entire column in 
Graffiti. Desktop machines are simply far more 
suited ergonomically for bulk data entry.
Besides usability, the other key advantage 
desktops have over miniature machines is that 
theyre much more expandable. Scalability helps 
extend the life of a desktop machine. For exam
ple, Im currently working on a Power Macintosh 
clone that was built in 1997. Ive upgraded the 
memory twice, the operating system three
(major) times, nd the hard drive once, and I 
also have the opticn of replacing the 180MHz 
processor card with one sporting a nifty new G3 
chip. If I need more power, I dont need to buy a 
new machine  I can just upgrade1 the one I 
have. When I leave CMU, I can take out my 
Ethernet card and replace it With ah internal 
modem. Had I bought a laptop in 1997, on the 
other hand, Id probably currently bel'shopping 
for a new computer. Thats not to say that there 
are no expandable laptops, or even th&t itd be: 
impossible to build one  its just milch more 
common, and easier, to expand a desktp.
This scalability is a key advantage in a world 
where minimum hardware requirements just 
keep going up with no peak in sight, ini particular 
for machines acting as servers. Which brings file 
to my final point: There are certain applications, 
to which portable computers simply aren?t.a&, 
well suited as traditional desktops. For example, 
with the advent of* faster Internet connectivity 
thats available to home users at a dropping 
price, its not at all unrealistic to expect more: 
home users to run their own Web servers rather 
than relying on their ISPs to host content. 
Granted, they wont be doing so on the same 
scale as a corporation, tut having scalability in a 
server machine is still a plus regardless of wiiat 
exactly its serving.
And then there are games. Even with tfie exis
tence of dedicated gaming systems like the 
Playstation, I still maintaih that you cant be^t a 
general-purpose PC for gaming potential. Sure, a 
dedicated system can crank out polygons me; 
nobodys business, but by and large Ive found 
that most of the funness faccorin a game is relat
ed to the gameplay itself, n>t the quality of the 
graphics or sound. And theres just so many more 
things you can do when you have an input device 
like a keyboard, and additional components like 
a local-area network connection. I love network1 
games. I love kicking.my suitemates butt.in 
StarCraft. You could theoretically put a network 
connection on a gaming system, but realtime 
strategy games would be downright harder with
out the benefit of keyboard shortcuts.
I absolutely do believe that: miniature comput
ers will continue to play an increasing role in 
how we work with information. But jl also think 
that the desktop is not quite dead yet. There re 
plenty of them out there, and there are plenty of 
things people can do with them that they cant 
do, or at least do as easily; as they lean witty a 
desktop machine.
Kevin Babbitt is a senior computer science major and a Tartan Contributing Editor. He has an easy schedule this semester; and so has rediscovered the joys of network gaming that he left behind freshman year.
The U.S. Army Health Professions 
Scholarship Program offers a unique 
opportunity for financial supports to 
medical or osteopathy students. 
Financial support includes a monthly 
stipend plus tuition, books, and other 
course related expenses.
For information concerning eligibility 
pay, service obligation and application 
procedure, contact your local Army 
Health Care Recruiter:
Computer gaming becomes networkedOld technology still functions
ARMY MEDICINE. BE ALL YOU CAN BE.www.goarmy.com
412-434-8470800-USA-ARMY

---------------------------------------------------

3 Days Starting at SI95 00
-London
mmTravel,
RRg r6Si/I nw6Ia6 
oQ55yfai3- on RpmR 
MRmbcgbRggR
don't believe everything you feel.
You've been pulled from the world you once 
knew. There's a reason for it. It's depression. 
It's very prevalent. But it's also very treatable.
TRB&7 DEPRESSION
#1 Cause of Suicide 
http://www.save.org
Vw
lUHIHCT &Dtmt
Earn College Credit at WCCC
 Convenient sessions with no Friday classes
May 15 - June 22 (6 weeks)
May 15 - August 3 (12 weeks)
June 26 - August 3 (6 weeks)
 Credits transfer to colleges and universities 
throughout the U.S.
 5 convenient locations
 Tuition is only $48 per credit for Westmoreland 
County residents, one of the best values in
I Pennsylvania.
Summer Schedule on Web ,wwiv.westmore/antf.cc.pa.us
or call 1-800-262-2103
YyrfV7m'
WESTMORELAND COUNTY 
COMMUNITY COLLEGEAn affirmative action, equal opportunity college.
Discover 
London 
without 
shedding 
too many 
, pounds in 
j^*jjthe process
yw aDbTwpD tmlRm2w
A Tnp-On organizer Hotel or Hostel accommodations (or a minimum of
Heathrow or Gatwick Airport transfers Unlimited travel on buses i the Underground A-Z Visitors London map
Tfip-On's unique guide to
CMU students deal with sicknesses this semester
by Cindy KosStaffwriter
Have you noticed lately, in lec
tures, or especially while taking an 
exam, the large amount of people 
that have been coughing, sneezing, 
or blowing their nose? Kind of 
messes up your concentration a bit, 
especially when you consider that 
you may be the next one to get sick.
Mother Nature seems to be teas
ing us lately, one day 70 and sunny, 
the next 32 and snowing. Is she the 
culprit responsible for all of these 
ailments?
No, said Anita Barkin, director 
of Health Services, viral illnesses 
in the winter, especially on college 
campuses, [have] to do with 
increased person to person contact 
inside confined spaces, as in class
rooms and residence halls.
The most frequent reason for stu
dents to visit Health Services lately 
has been for viral illness or pharyn
gitis (sore throat). Unfortunately, 
there is no cure for the 200+ virus
es that could possibly cause the 
incidences of colds and flu in the 
campus population. Instead, treat
ment is directed towards alleviating 
the symptoms while the illness runs 
its course. Health Services treats 
strep pharyngitis with antibiotics, 
such as penicillin, and individuals
presenting viral maladies such as 
influenza, are being treated with a 
variety or anti-viral agents, includ
ing Tamiflu and Relenza.
Last semester, the United States 
was struck with one of the worst flu 
seasons ever. Ironically, Health 
Services diagnosed only 28 individ
uals, a rather low incidence for our 
campus.
We also had more students 
receive flu vaccines this year than 
in any other year in the past. Of 
course, there is no way of knowing 
if this was a true effect or coinci
dence, said Barkin.
Also, Health Services recom
mends for those individuals who 
have had persistent cold and flu 
symptoms for more than a week, or 
if new/worse symptoms develop, to 
be re-evaluated because the viral 
infection may have developed into 
a bacterial infection. Typical signs 
of bacterial infection include con
gestion in the sinuses, ears, 
bronchial tubes, or lungs. 
Treatment for these cases is usually 
antibiotics. Other illnesses recently 
reported by Health Services include 
urinary tract infections, skin infec
tions, and asthma. ,
We generally see more orthope-; 
die injuries in the spring, due to an 
increase in outdoor activity, saidBarkin. We also see more allergy 
symptoms including nasal conges-, 
tion, itchy watery eyes, sneezing, 
and rashes.
I visit Health Services once a 
month, said Laura Evans, an unde
clared H&SS first-year student. Its 
close, and theres a CMU connec
tion, so it feels more homey and 
personal.
Health Services is affordable, 
and usually considerate, but [they] 
often do nothing for you at the 
time, and tell you to come back if 
youre not better, said Cindy 
Meisner, a junior chemistry and 
psychology double-major who usu
ally visits Health Services twice asemester. Considering the volume > 
of students they handle, they arent 
as bad as people think, said 
Meisner.
Keeping Healthy on Campus this Spring
 Exercise regularly
 SLEEP
 Don't smoke
 Reduce and manage your stress
 Wash your hands
 Consider a flu shot
 Maintain a healthy diet, rich in vitamins A, C, and E
THE TARTAN  MARCH 13, 2000
x6i6 u4 sQjjQ4Iy 42 d64dj6 /i4aIu 56 4iju j44" 24i i6jQ/fj6 /Iu 622Q.Q6I5 i/Qj 5i/Iyd4i5/5Q4IO
Chandra explores X-Rays
CHANDRA, from page L9 
away from Earth, M82 provides the 
best view of a starburst galaxy and is 
for now our best shot at understand
ing, this class of star cluster. In a starbiirst galaxy, stars form and die at a 
rate far greater than in the Milky 
Way.
Massive stars are forming and 
expiring in M82 at a rate ten times 
higher than in our galaxy. The 
bright spots in the center are super
nova remnants and X-ray binaries. 
The luminosity of the X-ray binaries 
suggests that most contain a black 
hole. The X-ray light in the image 
extends over several thousand light 
years.
nRrofessor Griffiths and his team 
are: working on two projects with 
the observatory. The first is to study 
the M82 Galaxy in order to further 
understand our own.
This [M82] is the Rosetta Stone 
for galaxies, said Griffiths. It is the 
ne&rest starburst galaxy to us, and 
creates lots of X-rays.
Astronomers hope , to discover mdfe about the conditions of the 
fly universe, when most galaxies 
are thought to have been starbursts. 
The gas from the core of M82 has a 
surprisingly hot temperature. 
r; y determining the source of the 
Ijigh energy X-rays, astronomers 
hope to understand whether starburst galaxies contribute to the 
o^mic Microwave Radiation 
Background, the radiation left over 
ffopi the Big Bang that permeates
the universe. Furthermore, the 
images of M82 reveal a chimney-like 
structure, which may help 
astronomers to understand how the 
metal-rich starburst gas is dispersed 
into intergalactic space to be even
tually recycled into new stars.
They have discovered a blackhole 
at the center of our universe that is 
millions of times larger than the 
sun, but inactive.
The other major undertaking is to 
understand a mysterious X-ray 
background glow that exists in 
space.
This glow was discovered in 
1962, said Griffiths. It has been in 
the sky and we are trying to figure 
out where the glow comes from. 
Chandra will help us do that with its 
extremely high resolution data.
The high quality of the data 
allows the team to understand space 
more.
Our own galaxy has a massive 
black hole a million times greater 
than our sun, said Griffiths. 
Fortunately, it is inactive, however, 
others that we are discovering with 
Chandra are very active. We are get
ting a clearer understanding of the 
inner workings of a black hole.
The Chandra mission is not alone. 
In December, the XMM-Newton 
was launched by the European 
Space Agency. By collecting similar 
data, scientists hope to confirm 
their research.
Chandra is expected to last about 
ten years.
These email kiosks, located on the second floor of Baker Hall near Room 
! 238, are available for faculty, staff, and students. The Mulberry email
' software works for people with Cyrus accounts. The kiosks, that are
i available for convenient use in between classes, were an initiative by
| .former College of Humanities and Social Sciences Dean Peter Stearns.
Science & Technology briefs
Water solid at 
room temperature
A former CMU undergrad helped to produce 
one of the first recorded occurrences of a solid 
cube of water formed at room temperature. As 
with many scientific discoveries, the results 
obtained by Wyndham Blanton and co
researcher Scott Gordan-Wylie came during 
research on a completely unrelated area during 
the pairs work under CMU chemistry professor 
Terrance Collins.
The groups original studies on the magnetic 
effects of ligand systems focused on combining 
magnetic clusters of molecules into a single crys
tal with greater magnetic properties. Blanton 
and Gordon-Wylie were heading the research 
into the production of such crystals.
After producing the first promising prototype, 
Blanton and Gordon-Wylie sent the manufac
tured crystal to a laboratory in New Zealand to 
have the atomic structure analyzed. As the sci
entists at the New Zealand facility organized 
their analysis, the crystals sitting in the lab 
began to interact with water that condensed on 
the sides of the crystal from the humid air.
While the crystal structure attempted to retain 
its original configuration, the numerous water 
molecules eventually overpowered the chemical 
bonds constraining the crystal molecules, and 
eight individual water molecules forced their 
way into the structure. Once inside the crystal, 
the water molecules arranged themselves into a 
solid cube perfectly supported by the particular 
shape of the crystal.
Though the idea of water being constrained as 
a solid at temperatures above the freezing point 
seems to fly in the face of normal physics, scien
tists had predicted that such an event could hap
pen on a microscopic scale under the correct 
conditions. Similar cubes had previously been 
formed with gaseous water vapor molecules and 
one research group reported a 10-molecule cube 
of liquid water, but Blanton and Gordon-Wylies 
accidental discovery was the first at its size.
Center provides 
online security
As businesses become more and more depen
dent on the Internet, they face an ever-increas
ing threat from hackers and other online securi
ty risks. To combat this growing problem, the 
Carnegie Mellon Research Institute has devel
oped the CyberSecurity Center, also know as 
CyberSec, to provide online security to govern
ment, business, and industrial clients.
The main focus of CyberSec is to prevent secu
rity breaches to an online system by constantly 
updating the systems defenses against outside 
hacks. The center also serves as a response'team 
to eliminate and repair any breaches that may 
occur in' the network services.
As well as manually updating the security 
systems  and recovering breached systems, 
the centers services include informational 
seminars, training, and system audits for 
clients who wish to maintain their own net
work systems.
The center has been building a solid client
base over the past year, but has experienced the
Award goes to 
T-Rex author
most growth in the last six months.
Carnegie Mellon University has announced that 
it awarded its Dickson Award for Science to Walter 
Alvarez, professor of geology and geophysics at 
the University of California at Berkeley, for his 
book T. Rex and the Crater of Doom.
The Dickson Award has long been recognized 
as one of the most prominent science awards 
since Pittsburgh physicist Joseph Z. Dickson and 
his wife Agnes Fisher Dickson established it in, 
1969. Presented annually by the university to 
American individuals who make outstanding 
contributions to the realm of science, the 
Dickson Award includes a medal and a cash 
prize of $40,000.
Alvarez gave a lecture about his award-winning research at the Carnegie Lecture Hall in. 
Pittsburgh. His research concerns the theory, 
that the extinction of the dinosaurs was caused | 
by the impact of a large asteroid. While studying ; 
the tectonics of the Mediterranean region and ; 
the geology of the Quaternary Roman Volcanic J 
Province and its implication for dating glacial | 
cycles, Alvarez discovered evidence of a massive j 
asteroid impact dated near the time of the ; 
dinosaurs extinction that could well have been 1 
responsible for killing most of the animal and ! 
plant life on earth at the time.
Compiled by J 
Matt Brun 1
Y2 Play?
More Parties More Action Best Hotels Best Prices
1.800.426.7710
yaIydj/y54aiyP.4s
U NUE WxUek :WUHnTUUk
Union Switch 8r Signal Inc, an Ansaldo Signal company 
www.switch.com 1000 Technology Drive, Pittsburgh, PA 15219  645 Russell Street, Batesburg, SC 29006 412-688-2400
IRI FINMECCANICA GROUP
control system in China, or 
communications-based train control 
in the United States, millions of 
people around the world depend on 
Union Switch & Signal technology to 
meet their rail transportation needs 
every day.
Want to know more? Access our 
web site at www.switch.com and 
learn how Union Switch & Signal is 
developing better systems to transport 
the people and products of the world 
by rail.
Pittsburgh, of course.
More specifically, they look to 
Union Switch & Signal  a world 
leader in the development of 
technological solutions for railroad 
and rail transit control, just as it was 
more than a century ago when 
George Westinghouse founded the 
company here in Pittsburgh.
Just because our focus hasn't 
changed substantially in more than a 
hundred years doesn't mean the work
we're doing hasn't. Today, our 
engineers and technicians are 
developing computerized control 
systems using the C++ language, 
leading-edge products featuring 
embedded microprocessor software, 
and the next generation of 
electronic and electro-mechanical 
components for train-control 
applications worldwide.
Whether it's rapid transit control 
in Seoul or Shanghai, a rail network 
management system in the United 
Kingdom, a digital classification yard

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment
Page Li 2
Cheap Movies
(for cheap students)
movies you may have seen before
BY ANDY FRANCIS
American Movie
Thursday, March 16
Wow. I mean, what can you say about a movie like this? iff' 
tell you what. A film like this comes along once in a lifetime. 
Yes sir. What a picture. Stunning. Brilliant.
Whatever. I doubt many people have even heard of this 
flick. Thats why Im here. Its about this guy named Mark 
Borchardt (played by himself) whos trying to make what he 
thinks is a really fantastic indie movie, tentatively titled Star 
Wars. Mark and his buddy Mike Schank (played by Michael 
Schank) are filming one day when they are captured by an 
evil wizard (Gary Coleman) and his sexy assistant (Roseanne 
Arnold). The wizard takes them to his lair where this big 
mutant frog is eating Count Chocula cereal. Needless to say,1 
the frog immediately builds a chewing gum factory and starts1 
a high-class prostitution ring catering to the likes of Charlie 
Sheen (played by Uma Thurman) and, in a bizarre twist, Gary 
Coleman (played by an evil wizard).
Could you spot any truth in that paragraph? Sure, most of iit, 
was false, but youd be pretty mad if Id told you about the sur
prise ending (Mark and Mike are both women).
At 7:30 pm, 10 pm, and 12:30 am
In McConomy Auditorium
Being John Malkovich
Friday, March 17
Its hard to remember a time when such a bizarre, twisted 
movie has scored as big with both critics and audiences as 
Being John Malkovich, the film debut of music video whiz 
Spike Jonze. Personally, Im impressed that the movies pro
ducers had the guts to go ahead with a movie where a pup
peteer (John Cusack) finds a portal that transports someone 
into the brain of John Malkovich (John Malkovich, who 
reportedly put on 40 pounds for the role).
If you, the reader, could be transported into someones 
brain temporarily, who would it be? Sorry, you cant use me, 
although this column might be a little more readable if I had 
some help. I think Id want to get inside the head of some
one really weird, like Biz Markie, or Tom Brokaw.
The sequel, Being Andy Francis, will begin filming here at 
CMU later this semester. Michael Douglas is set to star  
dont be surprised if you lose your parking space for a while.
At 7:30 pm, 10 pm, and 12:30 am
In McConomy Auditorium
Anna and the King
Saturday, March 18
Apparently this is critical favorites weekend, what with 
Being John Malkovich being followed up with Anna and the 
King, which garnered only one fewer Academy Award nomi
nations than Malkovich (3-2). With a storyline similar to the 
1956 musical The King and I, this movie should prove popular 
with anyone whos ever lusted after a bald, dancing Siamese 
king.
Explain to me why Jodie Foster turned down the lead in the 
Silence of the Lambs sequel, Hannibal. Correct me if Im 
wrong, but she hasnt exacdy been a real slugger at the box 
office lately, and how good was the first movie?
You know what, sometimes I really think Im a bit hard on 
the movies I review. I really think theyre all great and 
kjbzfb(*&Y*#$
Sorry, some movie nut got a hold of my keyboard. I guess 
she hasnt seen Austin Powers 2.
At 7:30 pm, 10 pm, and 12:30 am
In McConomy Auditorium
Tank Girl
Sunday, March 19
On the surface, Tank Girl is a film about a post-apocalyptic 
Earth that is run by an omnipotent corporation called Water 
and Power and one [tank] girls efforts to take it down. Dig 
deeper, though, and youll find a movie that, from what I can 
gather, is really poorly made.
Still, though, its hard to fault any movie which features the; 
acting chops of Ice-T. Pretty much any rapper in any movie 
guarantees its going to be at least watchable. Imagine the 
possibilities. The Talented Dr. Dre. Snoop Dogg Day 
Afternoon. The Death Row Rules. Academy Schmacademy.
Hip-hop stars or not, Tank Girl still seems like a fun movie to 
check out, and not just because Lori Petty is hot. Of course, 
shes not alone in her crusade against Water and Power - shes 1 
got her trusty sidekick, Jet Girl (and her sidekick, Sexually 
Curious Girl) to help her kick some butt and maybe even drop 
a few verses with Ice-T.
At 8 pm, 10 pm, and Midnight
In McConomy Auditorium
March 13 2000 THE TARTAN
Sci-fi film Mission To Mars entertains 
in light of numerous continuity flaws
rEGUv zvGUvx
By Thaddeus BillmanStaffwriter
 Touchstone Pictures. All Rights Reserved.
Dr. Terri Fisher (Connie Nielsen, left), Jim McConnell (Gary Sinise, center), and Phil Ohlmyer (Jerry 
O'Connell) are sent to Mars to investigate the mysterious disaster that decimated the first crew there.
A hundred million years ago, there was a sud
den burst of multi-cellular life ... no one knows 
why. Mission to Mars offers an answer to that 
question and others, as its heroes explore Mars 
for the first time.Mission to Mars is the kind of movie that 
wannabe and professional critics alike enjoy rip
ping to shreds. It is a big-budget picture with only 
one intention  to make money. So it offers little 
critical value. Instead, it focuses on drama, 
action, and emotion. The critical community as a 
whole has a natural bias against big-budget 
action movies. In that regard, one should take 
reviews about this sort of movie with a grain of 
salt.
That being said, Mission to Mars is not a very 
.good movie. There are significant problems with 
the script. The primary problem is that scenes do 
not fit together well. Soon after ideas are intro
duced, the camera cuts away to something else. 
Huge spans of time are skipped, leaving the view
er wondering what happened in all that time. 
Individual scenes show significant promise, but 
do not cohere, leaving the impression that each 
was written separately with a makeshift script 
devised to piece all of them together.
The script has other problems as well. Large 
portions of the plot are taken wholesale from 
movies like 2001: A Space Odyssey, which is not 
necessarily a bad thing for people who havent 
seen the predecessors. The dialogue is also 
cliched at times, although not overly so. Another 
problem is the blatant product placement. While 
I do not normally have a problem with product 
placement, Mission to Mars arguably went too 
far. For instance, the camera was seen following 
around a particular brand of beer for five to ten 
seconds.
Finally, it should be noted that the story lacks 
believability and displays incorrect science at 
times. This, however, is only a problem to those 
who go in looking for bad things to say about the 
movie. A movie should not be viewed as a depic
tion of reality, but rather an exploration of a fan
tasy world. Things need to be internally consis
tent, but do not have to agree with the real world. 
Thus, the movie should not be faulted on these 
issues.Mission to Mars succeeds in creating significant
drama. Attempting to create Apollo 13 style sus
pense, it succeeds on a scene-by-scene basis, but 
fails to sustain the action from one scene to the 
next. A dramatic event is introduced, mostly 
resolved, then dismissed before completion by a 
jump forward in time.
Emotion runs high throughout the movie, as 
could be expected. The movie provides consider
able joy as the heroes survive obstacle after 
obstacle. The viewer is made to feel good about 
the story and its characters, but it isnt built upon 
properly. Movies like Apollo 13 build the level of 
joy felt by increasing the level of suspense. The 
conquering of a big obstacle is met by the appear
ance of a bigger obstacle, until finally all conflict 
is resolved.Mission to Mars does not really do this. The 
biggest obstacles here occur well before the 
movie ends. In addition, suspense does not trans
fer from one scene to the next as it naturally 
should.Mission to Mars is not a failure on all levels, 
however. The visuals in the film are quite breath
taking, rivaling those seen in Imax motion pic
tures. The camera work is good and there is plen
ty to stimulate the viewer visually. Stylistically, 
the movie is a real gem. In addition, the acting is 
good, an element often lacking in big budget 
movies.
In conclusion, Mission to Mars is a fun and 
enjoyable movie that comes up short in many 
ways. It suffers primarily from a poor script and 
inadequate transition between scenes. However, 
it remains worth a look. Impressive visuals and 
dramatic events keep the viewers attention from 
focusing on the faults. As long as one doesnt take 
it too seriously, it remains an enjoyable trip to our 
neighboring planet.
Critic considers Pitch Black picture 
unoriginal, yet nonetheless enjoyable
by Matt BrunSpecial Projects Manager
Ingredients for a sci-fi/thriller blockbuster:
1: Take a transport ship with an eclectic crew 
including the most dangerous criminal in the 
galaxy.
2: Add a meteor shower that forces a crash 
landing.
3: Mix liberally with the most efficient killing 
machines evolution can produce.
Yes, Pitch Black is that formulaic in its struc
ture, but that doesnt stop it from being a very 
entertaining movie.
As the surviving members of the Hunter 
Gratzner crew survey the desert landscape of the 
planet theyve crashed on, they find that they 
landed just as the local solar system reaches the 
end of a 22-year cycle that results in a total 
eclipse of all three of the planets moons. 
Naturally, the darkness brings out the thousands 
of subterranean-dwelling creatures that appar
ently wiped out all other forms of life, including 
a past human research facility. Naturally, it is up 
to the psychotic criminal Richard Riddick to 
reform and use his killing prowess to save the 
others.
While the plot may more than closely resemble 
the Alien trilogy and a score of other movies, 
there are enough tweaks to let this effort from 
USA Films to let it stand on its own firmly-estab
lished, if not quite equal, footing. For starters, 
the cinematography is excellent. Varying light
ing effects and sometimes-frantic scene transi
tions give the film a surreal quality that sets it 
apart from its predecessors.
The lighting effects, in particular, make for 
some unique scene set-ups. As the desperate sur
vivors transition from the reddish-orange light of 
the primary binary stars to the blue hue of the 
extra third star and, later, to their own green 
flares and dim blue fluorescent lights, each 
scene gets progressively darker, culminating in 
total darkness.
The importance of light to the survival of the 
crew sets up some classic scenes as well. The 
showdown between Riddick and his captor 
William Johns in the glow of a single, flare with
Pitch Black features Vin Diesel (left) who plays the role of space traveler Richard Riddick. He also also 
appeared in The Boiler Room, which came out earlier this year, and is pictured here with Giovanni Ribisi.
aliens swarming the fringes of the scene waiting 
for the loser was one of the most interesting fight 
scenes in recent memory. In addition, the trailer 
shot of a whiskey fireball illuminating a swarm 
just before they eviscerate another victim is definately classic.
While, the unoriginal plot is certainly forgiv
able in light (no pun intended) of the films other 
successful aspects, the poor acting displayed 
throughout is not. As with many other sci-fi 
efforts from smaller studios, the majority of the 
budget went into special effects at the expense of 
a satisfactory cast. The group of relative 
unknowns gives a passable, if decidedly unin
spired, performance that makes it hard for the 
viewing audience to connect with their charac
ters. Vin Diesel (Riddick) is particularly unim
pressive in the films most pivotal role. While he 
looks menacing enough, Diesel doesnt inspire 
nearly the amount of malice and disdain for 
humanity that a criminal of Riddicks stature 
deserves. Diesels performance is more believ
able after Riddicks improbable reform than as a 
hardened criminal.
All in all, Pitch Black is just what a formulaic 
science fiction movie should be: a thoroughly 
entertaining film that doesnt try to be more 
than it is.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  MARCH 13, 2000
Squirrel Hill pizzahouse features interesting atmosphere, waitstaff
6y. Becca FribushContributing Editor
The people behind Pi, the newest restau
rant in Squirrel Hill, have clearly been 
doing their market research. Theyve come 
up with the perfect concept to attract CMU 
business  an upscale pizza place whose 
name is a cheesy mathematical pun.
Pi is casual enough for students, fancy 
enough for business lunches, and yummy 
enough for anyone who likes good food. Its 
hard to miss the trendy yet quirky atmos
phere, which you can take in as you wait for 
your table. Theres a good chance that there 
wilP'be a . wait, even on weeknights, since 
the restaurant is crammed into a tiny store
front.
Menus are sleekly designed and decorat
ed with the namesake number in both 
Greek and Arabic forms, as well as some cir
cles and equations for good measure. The 
furniture and table settings are all carefully-cfiosen and modern-looking, from the 
metallic mesh chairs to the blue-green 
ceramic plates. The black-clad waitstaff  
all of whom seem to wear stylishly small 
wire-rimmed glasses  are attentive but 
not annoying about it.
If the restaurants name doesnt clue you 
in to the restaurants sense of humor, the 
sculpted body parts sticking out from the 
walls should do it. Pi boasts a giant nose
along one wall and a matching ear on the 
other.
At any rate,. the delicious smells of the 
food made me think there might be some 
reason behind the nose after all. Half of the
zvWnNzn zvGUvx
completely non-Italian things like crabcakes 
or Caesar salad topped with cornmealcrusted chicken.
We decided to split a small pizza as an 
appetizer. Unfortunately, the sheer number
chokes, olives, and red peppers. It tasted 
good enough  with a crisp, buttery, 
vaguely sweet crust and fresh toppings  to 
make me want to swear off Papa Johns 
right then and there. But, even taking into
Pi PizzaItalian/Squirrel Hill
Ratings
Food: A 
Atmosphere: A 
Service: A 
Value: BPrice Range: $10 - $18/entre 
Overall: Amenu is devoted to pizzas with every con
ceivable combination of toppings, but cus
tomers can also choose from a small selec
tion of other Italian-inspired dishes like 
panini sandwiches and pastas, as well as
of pizzas offered made it difficult to decide. 
Do we get the Thai Spring Vegetable Pizza 
with lemongrass-soaked veggies, or just 
something plain and simple?
We finally settled on a pie with artiGreg Nofi/Entertainment Editor
5298 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
number of exotic toppings you get. Even the 
more common toppings had an interesting 
presentation. For example, the feta cheese 
was cut and served in enormous chunks on 
the pizza.
Their other entrees are also a bit on the 
expensive side. I felt like I was paying for 
their unique attitude and atmosphere as 
much as for the food itself. Ten dollars gets 
you an order of cavatappi pasta and tomato 
sauce thats tasty if not particularly memo
rable. But while most restaurants that 
charge that much for a plate of pasta 
include a side salad or something in the 
cost, Pi doesnt give you so much as a few 
pieces of bread. An Italian Cobb salad 
($8.95) looked almost like an antipasto 
platter, with assorted vegetables and a vari
ety of rich cheeses.
To conclude your experience, desserts at 
Pi are equally rich. Cheesecake, which 
comes in several variations, tastes like the 
genuine Italian kind with ricotta instead of 
cream cheese. And the cannoli, with chocolate-nut filling, is one of the best Ive had 
anywhere.
Pi Pizza is located at 5298 Forbes Avenue in Squirrel Hill and is a 20 minute walk away. If 
account their high quality, the pizzas seem a you like, take any bus that goes up Forbes 
little too pricey for the average Carnegie Avenue (such as 61 or 67), get off at the corMellon math geek. They start at around $9 ner of Forbes Avenue and Murray Avenue, and 
for a small basic tomato-and-cheese pie and walk half a block up Forbes. Pi is located on 
go steadily up from there depending on the your left if you are walking away from CMU.
New Music
New Pumpkins album disappoints
Album Title: MACHINAAhe machines of God 
Artist: Smashing Pumpkins 
Label: EMD/Virgin
out of five stars
by Andy FrancisSenior Staffwriter
\ i know that Smashing Pumpkins leader Billy Corgan 
can make a better record than this. The evidence is right 
here in my CD collection: his Siamese Dream and Mellon Collie and the Infinite Sadness are two of alt-rocks artis
tic and commercial high, points, and my radio and com
puter have been playing these great new Corganpenned singles for about a month now. Between that 
arid: all the media hype about his band, the Smashing 
Pumpkins, returning to their hard-rocking ways, I had 
pretty high expectations for MACHINA/the machines of God. Unfortunately, rather than reclaiming their place
at the head of rocks class, Corgan and company seem to 
have only amplified, rather than abandoning or expand
ing on, the murky sound of 1998s disappointing Adore.
Four tracks into MACHINA, I thought perhaps I was 
listening to the first great record of the year. The record 
opens with the razor-sharp guitars of The Everlasting 
Gaze, the bittersweet pop of "Raindrops + 
Sunshowers, and the radio-Pumpkins anthems Stand 
Inside Your Love, and I of the Mourning. There was 
not a bad moment among them. Unfortunately, the 
record quickly trades riffs and tunes in for noise and 
shapelessness. Corgans ultra-personal lyrics, almost 
entirely about love, always sounded best when backed 
by the Pumpkins blitzkrieg assault or one of Corgans 
thoughtful ballad arrangements, both of which are con
spicuously absent for the remainder of MACHINA. 
Without a sonic wall to give them some bite, his somber 
meditations can sound more like therapy than rock.
For the listeners convenience, this album can be eas
ily divided into thirds. Whereas the beginning third 
ranks with the bands best material, the second sounds 
like theyre trying to move ahead and establish a new 
identity. The songs, though, like the annoying Try, Try, 
Try and not-quite there Heavy Metal Machine, simply 
dont pack enough punch to really command the listen
ers attention. As for the final portion of the album  
well, I feel a bit cheated. The Crying Tree of Mercury 
and Blue Skies Bring Tears are noisy without even 
approaching rock, and the record dies a slow death by 
dragging on for about 20 minutes without anything to 
sink your teeth into.
The Smashing Pumpkins recorded over 40 Corgan 
originals for MACHINA, tossing 25 by the wayside. The 
more I hear Stand Inside Your Love, or any of Mellon Collie for that matter, the more I wonder how much 
some of those ou.ttakes could have given MACHINA a 
kick in the pants. Certainly, the high standard already 
set by the band makes an OK album like this seem like 
a disappointment, but hopefully next time the 
Pumpkins will try to make the whole album fun for the 
listener, too.
Producer creates gem of his own
Album Title: Pieces In A Modern Style 
Artist: William Orbit 
Label: Maverick
out of five stars
by Anne RayContributing Editor
In 1968, Wendy Carlos released an album that 
wormed its way firmly into popular music, and 
brought the synthesizer with it. On Switched-On Bach, 
Carlos arranged some of Bachs most famous pieces for 
non-string instruments  only the complex new 
instruments known as sequencers and drum machines. 
Now, electronic guru William 0rbit, the man responsi
ble for Madonnas Ray of Light and Blurs 13, has tried 
his hand at reinterpreting classical works on Pieces in a Modern Style.
A quick note for you purists: You will hate this
album. And you probably hated Carlos work as well. 
0rbit has rearranged pieces that run the gamut from 
contemporary John Cage and Henryk Grecki to 
Handel and Vivaldi. 0rbits work doesnt involve clas
sical training and skill, it involves a new kind of knowl
edge, that of how to best make use of available 
technology.
This technological challenge was one that Carlos 
faced as well. How can the sound and tone of Bachs 
works be most accurately recreated, using the equip
ment that we have? 0rbits challenge, however, is dif
ferent this time. Some of the pieces on this album 
nearly sound like replicas of a chorus of violins, a 
sound that, in 1968, could not quite be achieved. 
0rbits task on this album is to create a tone and mood 
that stays true to the original piece, yet finds a fresh 
tone of its own.
0rbit, who probably has more techno know-how 
than anybody else in the business, seems to have done 
this to varying degrees. He has worked with many pop
ular artists. This long lists includes Beth Orton, Peter 
Gabriel, Seal, the Cure, Erasure, and Kraftwerk for 
starters.
At their best, these tracks are rich and haunting, as 
in Samuel Barbers Adagio for Strings, which seems 
to be the center of this album. 0rbit has completely 
reinvented Beethovens Triple Concerto, resulting in 
an opulent resonance that draws the listener in entire
ly. A work by Erik Satie is satisfying on its own, even 
though Orbits interpretation has left much of the orig
inal piece behind.
In places, the tracks on Pieces sound a bit knob-twiddley or electronic-piano-ish. Or worse, they sound 
new-agey, which sounds quite fine for Yanni and Enya 
fans. But in the context of Ravel and Handel, this pro
duces nothing but a disappointing tonal deadness to 
the listener.
On the whole, 0rbit has built on the work of those 
like Carlos, producing an exhibition of the wonders 
that can be produced with current technology that is 
definitely worth a listen.
T0Y0TA-101
HMi 13,hi0,iaa HJig 
vJyMrhWvJB Dw mdd pw&
TOYOTA ECHO
THERES AN ECHO OUT THERE! Great looks on the outside, great room on the inside. 
Cruise the highway at W MP(3...very thrifty. Power? Plenty! Its a 1.5 liter hi-tech 
16 valve DOCH engine with variable valve timing (new) that kicks out 108> horsepower 
any time you want it. And best of all, Echo is the lowest priced Toyota!
New (Finance Plan] thru Toyota Motor Credit helps those with limited 
credit history buy or lease a new Echo or Ceiica. See dealer for details.
i YWq EEn i6/j w/ja6y- 6w6iSu/SP wwxxP3655ESE5/PeEs
'EPA estimated 32/39 City/Hwy automatic, 34/41 City/Hwy manual.
13M arcMrh20TH
Business Incubator
 Individual Offices
 1800 sqf Suite
 6000 sqf Suite
Internet Ready with Fiber 
Optic Lines
Call: 431-8200, Peter Smerd
Pntced
D'Uveb!
WE BEAT ALL 
PRICES ON HARD, 
TAPE, DLT DRIVES!
Seagate  rnnegei
rtfeatiett Padicvul
Call for a Quote
1-800-432-7199

---------------------------------------------------

by Scott Adams
IN SIX WEEKS OUR 
I.T. PEOPLE WILL 
CONNECT YOU TO 
THE NETWORK SO
-------^ YOU CAN DO
4-4 YOUR JOB.
I'LL STOP BY 
EVERY FEW 
MINUTES TO 
SEE WHAT 
YOU'RE DOING
I WAS PLANNING 
TO SPEND THE DAY 
SNAPPING MYSELF 
WITH THE ELASTIC 
BAND ON MY r~ 
UNDERWEAR.
CAN YOU TURN 
YOUR ONE-PAGE 
REPORT INTO A 
TWO-PAGE
--------EXECUTIVE
SUMMARY?
BUT YOUR IDEA 
IS GOOD, TOO.THIS WILL BE 
YOUR CUBICLE
I NEED WEBIOT 
SAVANTS WHO 
DON'T KNOW THEY 
SHOULD HAVE BETTER 
JOBS, r--------------------'
WE DON'T PAY 
ENOUGH TO HIRE 
BRILLIANT PEOPLE 
FOR OUR WEB fl' 
---------\ TEAM.
I'D EXPECT 
STOCK 
OPTIONS, 
OF COURSE
THE EMPLOYEE 
APPRECIATION 
LUNCHEON WILL 
BE POTLUCK.
DROP OFF YOUR 
DISH AT (AY 
HOUSE ON YOUR 
WAY TO WORK.
IF THIS WORKS, 
I'LL NEVER NEED 
TO BUY GROCERIES 
AGAIN.NEXT!/
I'VE BEEN ASKED TO 
QUANTIFY THE 
BENEFITS OF OUR 
KNOWLEDGE MANAGE -
Vol ume9SYSTEfAS
THE HIGHER DRAG 
COEFFICIENT 
MEANS WE LOST 
A LITTLE IN THE ~Z\ SANDWICHFETCHING 
DEPART-r >S3\ MENT.
I MEASURED OUR 
INTERN'S HEAD TO 
SEE IF IT GOT 
BIGGER. f
I WONDER WHERE 
HE GETS ALL THESE
CRAZY f------------------
IDEAS.
ONE OUT OF TEN 
RESEARCH AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
PROTECTS WILL 
SUCCEED, /
I RECOMMEND 
CANCELLING 
THE OTHER 
NINE. I
International Student Comics Galore!
S
ome people might notice a similarity between two dif
ferent comics this week. You might be confused or you 
might laugh, but no matter what we now have comics in 
English, French, and German in the paper. Making the 
comics section internationally known across the micro
phone is one of the goals of The Tartan. So if you have an 
international comic strip e-mail tartan@andrew.cmu.edu
NON SEQUITURNON SEQUITURby WILEYby WILEY
Ttte GENUINE. 
RPcRNTE CM?& 
foRXoURimn..
\NPeN EP PCCWCP 
THAT 0EIN& CLUE.LE4& 
KB=>UT TotW. 4TCK MNRKET ICN'T 40 
BAP AFTER ALL...
NON SEQUITURNON SEQUITURby WILEYby WILEY
TV*
WTW P.TM4
WRt fm. TUP- HtE.N4.lHfo PNI410N 
f NIKE- GPRfbRMWS, 
m> KRE FRE-fACtt? 
T ofFEg XoU 
LUCRWNt PtfnNW. 
HNtCf GWRACT 
To VN? WoTWIMfe 
6UT RE.E.0OK...IPetFRUrrioH F 
BP*. ML-WKE yVNR PfbgE-Vll=/sUv -?'Wlue<SNON-OmTOK. MCTWVJVJ. NON-i.CPOlTUP. KET
NON SEQUITURNON SEQUITURby WILEYby WILEY
FE4E{vRCV\ FCR'W 
QOESVlOl^iTODAY...
4,I 9o
Mfc rW owcsnoM. 
W Ttt PN=T...I SMii 
TUE WRINGS.
PlNoCClAlO, 
tV\e LR?

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  MARCH 13, 2000
6 W.Q6iQ36i WQ6 WQIu C6y54 t/iu6i WQ6 86Qyy6I
Raiding Boobs, Not as Much Fun as Slaying Ponies, More at 10
by: James Kenney (jim@dorkorg.com)
HE COULDN'T 
HAND OUT 
APPLICATIONS 
FAST ENOUGH.
HE ToLD US ALL ABOUT 
THE R1G0RS OF BooT 
CAMP: THE * A.M. WAKEUP CALLS...THE TWENTYMlLE RUNS IN FULL COM
BAT GEAR...THE OBSTA
CLE COURSES WITH 
BARBED WIRE 
AND LIVE f 
AMMO... N
THAT THEN HE HELD 
DOESN'T UP FoR
Forum PoageAtFou
Too A COLLEGE
APPEALING. CALCULUS 
\ TEXTBOOK.
WE HAD A MARINE 
CORPS RECRUITER 
TALK To OUR
PseFF &omeLi
SMART
MAN.
Yes Ms. Crout is a tight lil' number, built of the 
finest polygons in the world, coded by the most 
tasteful of programmers, she is a fine specimen 
of pixelated pizzaze, sporting an hourglass 
figure unrivaled by even Barbie herself. Yet 
Laura's finest features are by far her six-sided 
silicone stuffed sacks, her bouncing bazoombas, 
her polygonic pair, graphic gajungas, her breasts.
Today Light B. Ulb was playing "Boob Raider" 
on his Pony Slaystation. Laura Crout is the 
main character in "Boob Raider", you control 
her every move of acrobatic excellence. You 
can also change perspective, and view your 
heroine from some more untraditional points. 
Light B. Ulb tells me he likes to take a break 
from the action, and take in Laura's killer bod.
JASoN, YOU'RE WHAT
SUPPOSED TO BE DO
GETTING READY FoR YOU 
THE SCHOOL PLAY. THINK
^------V I'M
  zs w, DOING?
^r?TC ]
GLUG
GLUG
GLUG
GLUG
GLUG
GLUG
GLUG
GLUG
GLUG
1999&S AnvnrltMl ir UnrveMI P-K Sr*d fIT'S NOT NO, IT /S.
COM- AAAAZ I'M
PLIANT? ENTERING THEI NEXT MILLENNIUM 
WITH A COM*l _ PUTER THAT
WON'T PLAY
v nIesScstSTnh
I'M CHANGING ITS BUtLTIN CUOCK TO READ 
JANUARY 1, 2000. F iT 
DOESNT WORK, WE'LL 
HAVE TO GET A WHOLE 
NEW MACHINE. KEEP
LorA StulTAF PAoFFTmi
WHAT ARE 
YOU
DoiNG?
DRAT.
StlrATFi
LOUSY
gtTPT
OF JUNK.
yECydpDR Oo 
vCC IF OUR 
iFRuiT 
iS Y2K 
COMPLIANT.
Growing larger and larger with each sequel of 
"Boob Raider", Laura's breasts ensure that 
reality will never enter into the gamers time 
spent playing. Laura's breasts do not throw her 
off balance. They do not make jumps, even 
standing, difficult. Laura's breasts do not help 
her to float during time spent in the water. I 
am sure every gamer is dissappointed at this.
While pondering the issue of Laura's breasts 
on-line, I came across the Memoirs of her 
creator, the finest renderer in the land, Schm0e. 
"I created Laura, keeping in mind that most of 
her greatests fans would be much like me... 
legs tied together, hanging from the ceiling 
like a giant banana, drooling into a bowl 
of flat ginger ale, dreaming of sweet polygons.'1
T6 ojay Cai Qjy y4I5 taI"S Qjy r.6I5
Smackin the Cabbies in the Afterlife or Dead 
by: Tom Lin (tealinn@hotmail.com)
MUCH
8ETTER.
WHO SAYS WELL, NO 
IT WAS ONE ELSE HAS 
ME? TOUCHED THEIR J TOFU LOAF YET,
AND YOUR PLATE IS 
CLEAN. WHO 
ELSE COULD /
IT HAVE \ J ^ 1.
BEEN? y ____A _ -
YOU BURPED 
WITHOUT 
SAYING 
"EXCUSE ME" 
IT'S RUDE.
JASoNi
WHAT?
KTNO1999 Bl< Air.cna.tMl by IWl'Ul Pint SfnColt
WITH DAD 
NONE THE 
WISER.
*
SPEAKING
OF
WISDOM...
DAD WOULDN'T GIVE ME 
$20 To GO OUT WITH 
THE GUYS FOR PIZZA, 
So I ASKED HIM FOR 
$20 FoR A HAIRCUT, 
INSTEAD.
THEN I CUT MY OWN 
HAIR AND NOW I'VE 
GOT PIZZA MONEY.WHATS
So
FUNNY?A funny thing about dead bats is the 
sense of deja vu. Haven't I been to this 
house in this road on this time once 
before? No, not really, but it sounds 
like that it might have happened once 
and its a lie. A lie to your soul.
If you see Frank tell him that I never 
really liked him. It might not have 
been his fault, but he was dirty and 
lived in a barrio, "sorry Frank, your 
last presentation wasn't too great 
either and you can't draw well."
irUmtfUlPiejsSjr!
The Phatmaster
http://ph.at.res.cmu.edu/phatmaster/
Dail^ Stench
EXCLUSIVE 1 
Dark dental history 
revealed!
"They were 
P" 1 pretty bad,"TTHT formerdentist says
If Jesus thinks you are a good boy he 
will put out crackers for you in heaven, 
Sometimes the crackers are on earth, 
ho-hum, not a laughing matter. If you 
want them bad enough Jesus saves 
those too. Tell Frank to stop whitting.
Frank always did cry really easy, it's 
not a habit of girls only, no? Tell him 
1 was just having fun, if you believe in 
Jesus maybe this isn't real. He has 
saved over ten thousand souls to date. 
Extra-hot prayer, served fresh daily.
Today Arbitrary* Future Moment
The problem with my life is that, unlike MinML, preservation and progress 
do not hold.
Throughout my life, only one 
invariant has been preserved, 
same one as Kasuga Kyosuke's to only have balls for delta time intervals.
Well, at least I have 
impeccable oral hygiene. 
(Though it wasn't always so.)
TV\ ARtAi5 OF CTHULUl/ AR.>> 
p/\OVMN<-> A&AlMST THE U>e<2- P05T5 2YO\J
-S , }c i Wl,
^ You S Kw\J IjThe.R'5 f\ yjAi?
ile jh 2wvu vc vo gevowp Tvte oc.8o 
tur vs iMTee-^iNe& with YuR\ PAL-nX TftN6eNTALUY._______________

---------------------------------------------------

Calendar
13 March 2000THE TARTANPage L16
May you live as long as you want, and never want as long as you live - Old Irish
Celebrating St. Patrick's Day in Pittsburgh
Faith Healer
Through April 8
Lester Hamburg Studio Theatre/
South 13th and Bingham streets 
Tickets: $12-$18
A traveling faith healer, his mistress, and his 
Cockney manager each retell the events of a fate
ful August evening. For more information or tick
ets, call (412) 394-3353.
The Weir
Through April 9
OReilly Theater/ 621 PennAve
Tickets: $15-$40
Irishmen in a country bar try to impress a 
woman with horror stories. Performed by the 
Pittsburgh Public Theater. For more informa
tion or tickets, call (412) 316-1600.
Its Not Easy Being Green
Friday, March 17-Sunday, March 19 
Pittsburgh Childrens Museum/10 Childrens Way
Wear green and enjoy a weekend devoted to 
Kermit The Frog. This is part of the Vision of 
Jim Henson exhibit, which is running through 
May 28. For more information, contact (412) 
322-5059.Al issa Taylor/Art Staff
lalks/ledm
The next Open Mind Lecture will 
take place today from 4:30 to 6 pm in the 
Adamson Wing of Baker Hall. The talk is 
titled The University in an Integrative 
Age and will be given by David Scott, 
chancellor of University of Massachusetts, 
Amherst.
The Carnegie Lecture Series on 
Global Environmental Change contin
ues tonight from 7 to 8:30 pm in the 
Carnegie Museum of Art Auditorium in 
Oakland. Jay Apt, Director of Carnegie 
Museum of Natural History, will present a 
talk titled This View of Earth.
The Ghosts of Theatres Past, a new
adult lecture series sponsored by the 
Pittsburgh Public Theater, will kick off 
tonight with The Beginnings: Floating 
Theaters, Lyceums, and Burlesques." The 
lecture, which is free of charge and open to 
the public, will take place at the OReilly 
Theaters Helen Wayne Rauh Rehearsal 
Hall from 7 to 9 pm.
Pittsburgh radio talk show host 
Lynn Cullen will speak this Tuesday in the 
Schatz Dining Room. Cullens talk, Living 
Life on Your Own Line, is part of the Last 
Lecture Series, sponsored by the Division 
of Student Affairs.
The Bell Atlantic Distinguished 
Lecture Series continues this Wednesday 
from 12:30 to 2 pm in the Cooper 
Auditorium of the GSIA Building. The 
speaker will be David Lucking-Reiley of 
Vanderbilt University. He will present 
Multiunit Internet Auctions. Box lunches 
will be available at the talk.
The Alcoa African-American 
Speaker Series continues with a lecture 
today by Carol Swain from 4:30 to 6:00 pm 
in Breed Hall (MM103). The talk is titled 
Racial Preferences, Hate Groups, and the 
Shrinking White Minority. Swain is a pro
fessor of law and political science at 
Vanderbilt University and is currently 
engaged in a sabbatical year of legal studies 
at Yale.
The Alcoa African-American 
Speaker Series presents Barbara Smith, 
who will speak this Wednesday from 4:30 -
6 pm in Breed Hall (Margaret Morrison 
103). Her talk, like her new book, is titled 
The Truth that Never Hurts. Smith is a 
critic, teacher, activist, lecturer, and pub
lisher.
Urban poverty expert William 
Julius Wilson of Harvard University will 
present a lecture this Thursday titled The 
Bridge Over the Racial Divide at 4:30 pm 
in the McConomy Auditorium of the 
University Center.
The Center for Innovation in 
Learning Education Seminar Series
continues this Friday with Balancing 
Rigor and Reality in Creating Effective 
Learning Environments: A Programmatic 
Example from Elementary School Science. 
David Klahr and Eva Toth of the Psychology 
Department will be speak from noon to 
1:20 pm in McKenna, Peter, Wright Room 
of the University Center. For more informa
tion, call (412) 268-7675.
Manpi
President Jared Cohon will have stu
dent office hours beginning at 4:30 pm 
today. Interested students should contact 
Michael Murphy, Dean of Student Affairs, 
directly at mmlv@andrew.cmu.edu.
Seventeen panels of the AIDS quilt
will be on display starting with the unfold
ing ceremony on Monday, March 20 at 
4:30 pm and continuing through 
Wednesday, March 22 in the University 
Center Gymnasium. This display is spon
sored by the Student Dormitory Council.
A town meeting to discuss the campus 
master plan will occur this Tuesday from 
7:30 to 9:30 pm in Rangos Ballroom of the 
University Center. This plan will guide the 
development of campus buildings and 
open space for the next 25-50 years.
A Graduate Womens Gathering
will be held this Tuesday from 12:15 to 
1:15 pm with a lunch in the Connan Room 
of University Center.
Carnegie Mellons Womens Center 
and WRCT present A Nite of Open Mic 
at the CMU Womens Center, located at 5 
Margaret Morrison Plaza. It will take place 
this Friday starting at 7 pm. All are wel
come to perform and watch. For more 
information on this event, contact women@andrew.cmu.edu.
Awareness of Roots in Chinese 
Culture presents an afternoon of Chinese 
Arts and Crafts, a chance to learn the deli
cate crafts of Chinese calligraphy, papercutting, and origami. A variety of authentic 
Chinese teas, desserts, and snacks will be 
served. The event takes place this Saturday 
from 1 to 4 pm in the Danforth Lounge of 
the University Center. Admission is free. 
Questions or suggestions can be send to arcc@andrew.cmu.edu.
The School of Drama presents A 
Little Night Music by Stephen Sondheim 
on this Friday and Saturday, as well as 
March 21 through 25 and April 5 through 
8 in the Philip Chosky Theatre in the 
Purnell Center for the Arts. Performances 
of A Little Night Music begin at 8 pm. A 
matinee is scheduled for March 25 and 
April 8 at 2 pm. For more information, 
contact the Drama box office at (412) 268- 
2407.
The School of Music presents The 
Boyfriend from this Thursday through 
Sunday in the Kresge Theatre in the 
College of Fine Arts building. For tickets or 
more information, call the music box 
office at (412) 268-2383.
The Regina Gouger Miller Gallery
in the Purnell Center is celebrating its 
inaugural season with three installations 
through April 14. The gallery is open 
Tuesday to Sunday from 11:30 am to 5 pm.
The University Center Art Gallery
presents A Celebration of Women 
Through Art. The exhibit is on display 
from March 14 until 25, and is held in con
junction with the universitys observance 
of Womens History Month, co-sponsored 
by the Office of Student Affairs. The open
ing reception is Friday at 6 pm.
Beauty Queen OfLeenane
Through April 9
City Theater/ 57 S 13th Street
Tickets: $19-$28
A production about the relationship between 
a hypochondriac woman and her daughter 
who plans to leave Ireland and move to 
America with her boyfriend. Performed by 
the City Theatre Company. For more infor
mation or tickets, call (412) 431-2489.
music
The University of Pittsburgh 
Department of Music will be presenting 
a concert of new works by Pitt students this 
Tuesday at 8 pm in the Frick Fine Arts 
Auditorium in Oakland. Admission to this 
event is free. For more information on this 
event, call (412) 624-4125 or email concerts+@pitt.edu.
Susan Tedeschi will be performing at 
the Palace Theater this Thursday at 8 pm. 
Tickets are $25 and on sale at several local 
music stores and online at http://www.tick- etweb.com. For more information, call (412) 
373-7693.
The Orquesta Tropical is performing 
this Thursday at 10 pm at Rosebud, located 
at 1650 Smallman Street in the Strip 
District. For more information, call (412) 
261-2232.
Queensryche will be playing this Friday 
at Metropol for an over-21 show. Tickets are 
$18 in advance and $20 at the door. The 
show begins at 7 pm.
A Contra Dancing event will take 
place at 8 pm this Friday at the Swisshelm 
Park Community Center. Lessons start at 
7:30 pm for anyone who wants to learn 
these American folk dances. The dance will 
run from 8 to 11 pm and admission is $6. 
The dance hotline is (412) 731-8661. 
Information is also available at www.pitt.edu/~wheeler2/contra.html.
Paula Cole will be performing this 
Saturday at 7:30 pm at Rosebud in an over21 show. Tickets are $30 in advance and 
$33 the day of the show.
University of Pittsburgh students
will perform Indonesian music at the Pitt 
Sundanese Gamelan Ensemble Spring 
Concert this Saturday at 8 pm in Bellefield 
Hall, located at 315 South Bellefield 
Avenue: Concert tickets are available at the 
door for $5 general admission, $3 for stu-' 
dents, and free for Pitt students with proper 
identification.
religion
The Spring 2000 Prayer and Praise 
Breakfast will take place this Tbesday in 
the Danforth Lounge of the University 
Center from 8 to 9 am. This event is open to 
faculty, staff and students.
The CMU Hindu Students Council
invites all for Rangeela, the Holi Festival 
of Colors. This event will take place 
throughout Saturday, starting at noon. 
Events will occur on both CMU and Pitt 
campus and include a lunch and dinner, a 
semi-formal dance, and a traditional color 
fight. For tickets and questions, contact nashah@andrew. emu. edu.
The Catholic Alumni Club of 
Pittsburgh, the largest Catholic singles 
group in Western Pennsylvania, sponsors a 
weekly volleyball night at St Edmunds 
Academy in Squirrel Hill every Wednesday 
evening at 8 pm. For more information, call 
(412) 766-6574 or (412) 341-4070.
museums
The Carnegie Science Center on the
North Side is currently presenting Who 
Dun It: The Science of Forensics through 
March 19. Also, the Buhl Planetarium will 
be showing Stars of the Pharaohs. For 
more information, call (412) 237-3400.
The Clay Place Gallery is currently dis
playing an exhibit titled Close Encounters 
by Pittsburgh sculptor Judi Charlson. The 
exhibit runs through March 29 at the 
gallery, which is located at 5416 Walnut 
Street in Shadyside. For more information, 
call (412) 682-3737.
First Person Singular, a juried exhibi
tion at the Pittsburgh Center for the Arts by 
its guild members, will continue to run until 
April 23. Call (724) 327-2549 for more 
information.
xvTeErvKze
making people happy, 
happy land.
What else would you use it 
for... knocking on doors?
w/bw/bw/bw/bw/bw/
if this semester.dQegq't make 
you a chain smoker, nothing will
thank you to the e girls who s4o 
me thro ugh Saturday night. =)
I have been loving you SO 
MUCH this week... but only at 
night when youre not around."
r/i5QI G/z 8s6Q
benchpressing your bed and just forgot.
r discovering that the World Wide Web in 't help her find an orifice, Esqueala decided to try rellow Pages. She looked under o" and found noth- about. orifices. However, under ut she found plenty aces that served tequila. Momentarily distractedi for orifices, she went out to try them all.
Jm looking for the Chinese 
calligraphy negative...
Vox Fopuli is a forum open to the entire campus community! To 
submit a vox, simply emaH it to tartan@andrew.cmu.edu, send it 
to The Tartan, University Center, Box 17 via campus mail, or drop 
it in the Vox Popull drop box on the slick-looting Tartan server. 
The comments in this box do not retied the views of The Tartan 
or anybody in general. It is basically a bunch of gibberish, and if 
anything sounds remotely real or interesting, then you're reading 
way too much into it.
