PILLBOX
Carnegie Mellons student newspaper since 1906
SCITECH
New Works Series premieres student productions  B8
FORUM
U.S. must cut down on fossil fuel addiction  A9PayPal co-founder pays a visit to CMU  A5
JOEY PEISER
Pillbox Editor
Carnegie Mellon English 
professors Jim Daniels and 
Andreea Ritivoi on Friday 
gave a joint reading from their 
recently published works, 
Eight Mile High and Intimate 
Strangers: Arendt, Marcuse, 
Solzhenitsyn, and Said in 
American Political Discourse, 
respectively, in the university 
bookstore.
Daniels, who is a professor 
of creative writing at Carnegie 
Mellon, began the event with 
a reading from his new book 
of ?ction. Eight Mile High is 
comprised of linked short 
stories written in a ?ash ?ction format  often referred 
to as prose poems  meaning they are relatively short 
and use lyrical language. The 
books stories center around 
characters living near the 
famed Eight Mile road in Detroit, which is both a physical and symbolic borderline 
between the predominantly 
white and working class suburbs and the African-American urban center.
Daniels chose to read a 
story that comes at the end of 
the book, titled The Tall Tale 
and Cowboy Mattress, which 
focuses on a main character 
of the book, whom it follows 
from childhood. In the story, 
the character re?ects on his 
own child, who is grown 
and attending the ?ctitious 
Eight Mile High from which 
the book draws its title. The 
pieces narrator focuses on a 
mattress spotted with images 
of cowboys and recalls both 
his sons and his own happy 
period of innocence.
Andreea Ritivoi, who is a 
professor of rhetoric focusing on narrative and identity among other subjects, 
followed with a reading from 
her book, Intimate Strangers. 
She introduced the selection 
by explaining the Leo Tolstoy 
short story Kholstomer, 
which tells a typical love story between a farmer and his 
wife, but is told from the perspective of their horse. In this 
manner, everything the reader sees is ?ltered through the 
horses perspective, with the 
goal of making normal things 
take on a new shine. For example, the horse refers to 
everything, whether it be the 
farm or the farmer, as his, 
which goes against a normal 
human view of property ownership in a farm environment.
Ritivoi explained that this 
technique is known as defamiliarization, and Tolstoy 
uses it to allow the reader to 
re-examine the most basic aspects of life. Ritivoi went on to 
explain that she sees foreigners, whom she de?ned as anyone identi?ed by Americans 
as foreigners, as key agents 
of defamiliariaztion in the 
thetartan.org
@thetartan
October 27, 2014
Volume 109, Issue 9
Indie band Walk the Moon to headline Nov. 15 fall concert
Spark career fair highlights startups
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
News Editor
Weeks after the Technical Opportunities Conference 
(TOC) and the Employment 
Opportunities Conference 
(EOC), students checked in 
outside of Rangos Auditorium 
for a different kind of career 
fair. Spark, which took place 
last Thursday and held its ?rst 
career fair four years ago, is 
meant speci?cally for smaller 
companies and startups, and 
caters to students who are interested in working for such 
companies.
One of the appeals of 
Spark, Assistant Director at 
the Career and Professional 
Development Center (CPDC), 
and one of the organizers of 
the event Ray Mizgorski said, 
is that Spark costs less for 
companies to attend than the 
TOC or EOC.
Spark also offers a more 
intimate atmosphere for students and recruiters. According to Associate Dean for the 
CPDC Kevin Monahan, over 
300 companies and 3,000 
students attended the TOC 
across all three days, while 
only 32 companies and about 
300 students attended Spark.
Recruiters at Spark, 
Mizgorski said, are looking for 
students across majors. Its 
really nice because we dont 
say startups in tech, or startups in this, or that. It really 
cuts across all disciplines, he 
said.
The companies are also 
not limited to Californias Bay 
Area, known as the traditional home of startup culture. 
Some of [the companies] are 
in Pittsburgh, some of them 
are in Chicago or the Midwest, 
a good handful or so are coming from the West Coast. So it 
really is expanding.
Lucky Ramsey, director 
of recruitment for Waypaver, 
said that she appreciated the 
open dialogue that she could 
have with students at Spark. 
Waypaver, which Ramsey 
described as the internal 
recruiting arm for a venture 
capital company, is based in 
Chattanooga, Tenn., and was 
looking for computer scientists and product designers at 
Spark.
[The fair is] really good 
because the students have a 
certain expectation, Ramsey 
said. Because they want to 
work for a startup, and theyre 
ready for it. Some students at 
Abhinav Gautam/Staff Photographer
Students of all majors were welcomed to Spark, a career fair for startup businesses, on Thursday to try their luck in the startup industry.
LAURA SCHERB
Operations Manager
On Wednesday, AB Concerts announced the booking 
for the fall concert. On Nov. 
15, Walk the Moon with special guest PUBLIC, will perform in Wiegand Gymnasium. 
The indie rock band is primarily known for their catchy 
song Anna Sun, which 
reached the top 10 charts in 
2012. A new single, Shut Up 
and Dance, and an accompanying music video were 
released on Oct. 23. According to radio.com, the band 
has long been on its way to 
becoming a full-on pop and 
alt-rock explosion and If 
any song will catapult them 
there, its their recent single. 
Walk the Moon is expected to 
release another album, titled 
Talking is Hard in December.
PUBLIC, the band that will 
accompany Walk the Moon, is 
a pop rock indie band based 
in Cincinnati. The band has 
toured with Walk the Moon, 
Neon Trees, and Twenty One 
Pilots, according to their website.
The AB Concerts co-chairs 
promoted the release by posting clues and hints on their 
Facebook page leading up to 
Wednesdays announcement, 
which took place at the Fence 
with a giant banner and on 
the organizations Facebook 
page.
[To book a performer], 
we work with a middle agent, 
someone who manages communication between us and 
an agency. They provide us 
with a list of artists available 
at that time and within our 
budget, and then we offer a 
bid. Walk the Moon was actually our ?rst choice, said 
Samantha Landen, the AB 
Concerts co-chair and senior 
CMU smart in 
its prep for Ebola
BRADEN KELNER
Editor-in-Chief
Carnegie Mellon has protocols in place in the unlikely 
event that a case of Ebola is 
identi?ed on campus, according to Director of University 
Health Services (UHS) Anita 
Barkin. On Wednesday, Barkin emailed the campus community to provide updates 
about actions the university 
is taking against Ebola.
In the email, Barkin said 
that the university is working 
with local health care agencies, which primarily include 
the Allegheny County Health 
Department and UPMC 
Emergency Medicine, and 
is following guidelines provided by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 
(CDC) to prevent the spread 
of Ebola should a case appear. Health Services has also 
been in conversation with the 
University of Pittsburgh Student Health Service.
Barkin said that the university has not had to screen 
any members of the campus 
community thus far. Additionally, the university has 
not received any calls from 
campus community members 
returning from affected areas such as Liberia, Guinea, 
or Sierra Leone, although 
the university has received 
calls from individuals asking about precautions prior 
to travelling to places not in 
West Africa.
One of the questions I ask 
... international travelers is 
whether theyve gotten a ?u 
shot, Barkin said. Because 
your chances of getting the 
?u are a lot greater than coming into contact with Ebola, 
and more people die of the 
?u every year than of Ebola.
The university also has an 
Emergency Response Plan 
with a planning team that reviews and updates the plan. 
This team includes members 
from across various campus 
bodies, such as members of 
Student Affairs, Facilities 
Management Services, University Police, and Environmental Health and Safety, 
among others. In light of the 
Ebola outbreak, the team revised the emergency protocol 
for responding to infectious 
diseases. Barkin said that Linda Gentile, the director of the 
Of?ce of International Education at Carnegie Mellon, was 
involved in discussion related 
to Ebola. Michael Murphy, 
the vice president of campus 
affairs, leads the emergency 
planning team as the Executive Policy representative.
CMU EMS and University 
Police are trained to screen 
students in the case that they 
must respond to a possible 
case of Ebola, according to 
Barkin. They are trained to 
?rst ask Do you have a fever? and, if given a response 
of yes, they ask Have 
you traveled to West Africa 
or been exposed to anyone 
who has traveled to West Africa and is ill? If given another response of yes, the 
members summon the 9-1-1 
dispatcher.
University staff were 
trained by Environmental 
Health and Safety on how to 
correctly use personal protective equipment, consisting 
of a waterproof gown, foot 
coverings, gloves, and a face 
shield, according to Barkin. 
The university secured equipment for health services, as 
well as CMU EMS in the very 
unusual circumstance where 
they would be in a situation 
where they would need [the 
equipment], Barkin said.
Nurses and clinical staff at 
the university were trained to 
triage Ebola cases and secure 
a space where a suspected 
case is treated, and to disinfect that space before resuming public use.
The chances of our having to deal with that situation 
are pretty low, Barkin said 
of the possibility of an Ebola 
case at Carnegie Mellon. 
Here [at] Carnegie Mellon 
weve been really smart about 
this. We were on it in August, 
already thinking about this 
before students arrived.
The recent email update to 
the campus community states 
that members are expected to 
call UHS before returning to 
campus after visiting places 
affected by the virus. Members are then expected to 
monitor themselves for up to 
21 days after their return.
Barkin ?rst emailed the 
campus community about the 
universitys response to Ebola 
on Aug. 8, after two U.S. citizens were transferred from 
Liberia to Atlantas Emory 
University Hospital earlier in 
the month. The ninth person 
to be treated for Ebola in the 
United States was diagosed 
on Oct. 23 in New York City 
when doctor Craig Spencer 
reported symptoms a week 
after returning from Guinea.
The virus, which was ?rst 
discovered in 1976, is known 
to only spread through direct 
contact with blood or bodily 
?uids of individuals already 
exhibiting symptoms.
See SPARK, A4
See SIGNING, A3
Daniels, Ritivoi present new works
Abhinav Gautam/Staff Photographer
Jim Daniels (left) and Andreea Ritivoi (right) hosted a joint reading for 
their books on Friday.
Courtesy of Walk the MoonSee CONCERT, A4
One of the 
questions I ask ... 
is whether theyve 
gotten a ?u shot.... 
More people die of 
the ?u every year 
than of Ebola.
 Anita Barkin,
director of University 
Health Services

---------------------------------------------------

A2  thetartan.org/news The Tartan  October 27, 2014
Corrections & Clari?cations
If you would like to submit a correction or clari?cation, 
please email The Tartan at news@thetartan.org or 
editor@thetartan.org with your inquiry, as well as the 
date of the issue and the name of the article. We will 
print the correction or clari?cation in the next print 
issue and publish it online.
NEWS IN BRIEFCamels and zebras and goats, oh my
WEATHER
Wallet and cash theft 
Oct. 17, 2014
A catering employee reported to University Police 
that her wallet had been taken 
from her purse, which was 
being kept in an unlocked 
cabinet, in the lower level of 
the Jared L. Cohon University 
Center. The victim believes 
that the theft took placed between 8 and 9 p.m.
Another victim reported 
that $10 was taken from her 
wallet between 10:30 and 
10:35 p.m. from the basement 
locker rooms of Resnik House.
And a third victim reported that $200 was taken from 
her wallet, also in Resniks 
basement locker rooms. The 
locker rooms in the basement 
of Resnik are used to store 
catering employees personal 
belongings. All three incidents 
are being investigated. 
Violation of rooftops and 
parapets policy 
Oct. 18, 2014
Four students were cited 
for violation of Carnegie Mellons rooftops and parapets 
policy when they were found 
on the roof of Scaife Hall. The 
students will be disciplined 
through the universitys internal disciplinary system.
Purse theft
Oct. 18, 2014
A Carnegie Mellon student 
reported that her purse was 
stolen after she left it unattended near Schatz Dining 
Room between 3:30 and 8:30 
p.m.
Public nuisance 
Oct. 19, 2014
University Police made 
contact with a woman who refused to put her dog on a leash 
on campus, as required by university policy. The woman was 
told to leave campus after refusing to follow the university 
policy.
Criminal mischief 
Oct. 20, 2014
A security of?cer on patrol reported graf?ti on the 
exterior doors leading to The 
Underground in the basement 
of Morewood Gardens. University Police believe that the 
door was defaced within the 
last week, and are investigating the incident.
Backpack theft 
Oct. 20, 2014
A Carnegie Mellon student 
reported his backpack stolen 
from the ?rst ?oor seating 
area of the Carnegie Mellon 
Caf. The student had left 
the backpack unattended 
between 6:30 and 8 p.m., at 
which point he noticed his 
backpack was missing. He 
?led a police report two days 
later.
Telephone scam 
Oct. 22, 2014
Nearly a dozen Carnegie 
Mellon students contacted 
University Police about a 
phone scam targeting international students. The unknown 
caller claims to be a federal 
law enforcement of?cer who 
has an outstanding warrant 
and/or ?nes in the victims 
name. The caller tells the victim that they must pay some 
amount of money to handle 
the warrant or ?ne. According to the victims, the caller ID 
number is of an actual law enforcement agency. The Pittsburgh Police Department and 
Federal Bureau of Investigation are currently investigating the incident, and a crime 
alert was issued to campus.
Suspicious person
Oct. 22, 2014
University Police responded to student reports of a suspicious man on the benches 
outside of Warner Hall. The 
man, students said, was harassing passersby and possibly 
smoking crack. When of?cers 
arrived they questioned the 
man and issued a de?ant trespass warning. The male left 
the Carnegie Mellon property.
Campus Crime & Incident Reports
Activities Board presented the annual petting zoo on Wednesday. Featuring all sorts of animal friends, from llamas to camels to goats to horses, the 
zoo provided a midweek break and the opportunity to take a sel?e with a camel.
Source: www.weather.com
FEATURE PHOTO
University president Subra Suresh was inducted into 
the Institute of Medicine on 
Oct. 19 in Washington, D.C. 
President Suresh is now the 
only university president to 
be elected to all three national academies: the Institute of 
Medicine, National Academy 
of Sciences, and National 
Academy of Engineering, as 
well as one of only 16 living 
Americans with the honor.
President Suresh has also 
been elected to the Academy 
of Sciences of the Developing World, American Academy of Arts and Sciences, 
German National Academy 
of Sciences, Indian Academy 
of Sciences, Indian National 
Science Academy, Indian National Academy of Engineering, Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences, 
Spanish Royal Academy of 
Engineering, and Spanish 
Royal Academy of Sciences.
The Institute of Medicine 
is recognizing Suresh for his 
research into the cell mechanics surrounding Malaria, 
blood diseases, and certain 
types of cancer.
According to a university 
press release, The national 
academies are honori?c, private, nonpro?t institutions 
that provide expert advice 
on some of the most pressing challenges facing the nation and the world, helping to 
shape policies, inform public 
opinion, and advance the 
pursuit of science, engineering and medicine.
Suresh becomes only university president to be elected to all national academies
Carl Kingsford receives $1.5 million grant
Carl Kingsford, associate 
professor in Carnegie Mellons Lane Center for Computational Biology, will receive 
a ?ve-year, $1.5 million 
grant from the Gordon and 
Betty Moore Foundation as 
part of an effort to develop 
more ef?cient methods for 
searching the giant bodies 
of DNA and RNA data now 
available worldwide.
Kingsford received the 
grant as one of 14 recipients 
of the foundations Moore 
Investigators in Data-Driven 
Discovery Awards.
Science is generating 
data at unprecedented volume, variety and velocity, 
but many areas of science 
dont reward the kind of expertise needed to capitalize 
on this explosion of information, said Chris Mentzel, program director of the 
Data-Driven Discovery Initiative, in a university press 
release. We are proud to 
recognize these outstanding 
scientists, and we hope these 
awards will help cultivate a 
new type of researcher and 
accelerate the use of interdisciplinary, data-driven science in academia.
Currently, Kingsford directs a group of computational biology researchers 
that research protein interactions, gene expression, 
chromatic structure and 
viral evolution. Earlier this 
year, Kingsford collaborated 
with a researcher at the University of Maryland to create 
Sail?sh  a new method for 
quickly estimating gene activity from RNA-sequencing 
data.
To me, Carls work represents an outstanding example of the best approach 
to computational biology: 
careful framing of a biological problem followed by 
rigorous development and 
application of appropriate 
computer science methods, 
said Robert F. Murphy, director of the Lane Center 
for Computational Biology, 
in a university press release. 
As the volume and complexity of biomedical data 
increases exponentially, his 
scalable approaches and 
commitment to open source 
software will be critical to 
enabling new and clinically 
important discoveries.
Fiscal policy presentation
STUDENT SENATE MEETING MINUTES
FRIDAY
High / Low
52 / 35
SATURDAY
High / Low
45 / 30
SUNDAY
High / Low
50 / 36
TUESDAY
High / Low
77 / 51
WEDNESDAY
High / Low
59 / 41
THURSDAY
High / Low
55 / 42
Compiled by
BRENT HEARD
Compiled by
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
Junior economics and decision science double major 
Landon He gave a presentation regarding changes to 
Student Senate ?scal policies, 
beginning with a discussion 
of reevaluating Senate funding for unrecognized student 
organizations. Roughly 25 
percent of allocations made 
over the past six years have 
been to unrecognized organizations, many of whom do 
not have the luxury of previous budgeting. The impact of 
an event or an initiative which 
could be funded is evaluated 
with respect to the breadth of 
its impact, its administration, 
and its value to students. It 
was concluded that the events 
which are funded should align 
with Senates funding philosophy, the language of which is to 
be clari?ed by these changes. 
Some of the issues discussed 
were that there is no clause 
prohibiting funding for individuals, that special allocation 
funds are permitted to fund the 
operational costs of initiatives 
that donate any portion of their 
proceeds to charity, and that 
events that are purposed for a 
speci?c group or major would 
be discriminatory.
Upcoming Senate events
Senate will hold a vacancy 
election in the coming week, 
and will address the topics of 
the Healthy U survey and ?-
nancial allocations. Additionally, bylaw changes will be 
presented for discussion and 
voting on Nov. 2.
Ryan Oh/Junior Photographer
Compiled by
BRIAN TRIMBOLI

---------------------------------------------------

October 27, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/news  A3
SPRING 2015 INTERNSHIP
Research and create
an exhibit at
Posner Center
$3,000, option for credit
15 hours/week for 15 weeks
Apply by Dec. 1, 11:59 p.m.
More information at 
www.cmu.edu/posner-center/internship
American political discussion, 
a role they are often scrutinized for. 
The four subjects of Intimate Strangers  Hannah 
Arendt, Herbert Marcuse, 
Alexander Solzhenitsyn, and 
Edward Said  were all foreigners with varying degrees 
of legal citizenship, but all 
came under great attack for 
criticizing the American political system. Ritivoi explained 
that all of her subjects were 
extremely vili?ed, with some 
even receiving death threats, 
for having the gall to criticize 
America as a foreigner; even 
though individuals considered to be native Americans 
echoed their criticisms.
Through a study of their 
writings, Ritivoi dissected 
the rhetorical voice of the foreigner and how to establish 
the concept of defamiliariaztion through careful use of 
language, and concluded that 
the voice of a foreigner could 
be adopted in writing to give a 
unique perspective on issues.
Attendance was sparse, 
consisting mainly of the professors students and colleagues. Those in attendance 
responded warmly to the 
reading, especially given their 
departmental connection to 
the two professors. Fifth year 
scholar and professional writing and creative writing double major Josh Claudio said, 
Its cool seeing Jim outside 
of an academic environment 
and speaking on things that 
personally interest him.
After Ritivoi concluded 
her segment, Daniels made a 
point that the two works are 
not quite as different as they 
appear. Daniels explained 
that within Detroit, which 
has become somewhat of the 
poster child of a failed America, one must earn the right to 
criticize Detroit by being from 
there. He spoke of a team of 
French photographers who 
photographed the ruins and 
abandoned buildings of Detroit, and how the citizens felt 
violated and exploited. 
Daniels said, however, that 
if the same photos had been 
run in a local newspaper, 
there would likely have been 
little to no controversy. Who 
has the authority to criticize? 
was thus a central theme of 
the afternoon.
From SIGNING, A1
Ritivoi and Daniels sign books
Abhinav Gautam/Staff Photographer
Top: Andreea Ritivoi, professor of rhetoric, discusses her book Intimate Strangers. Bottom: Jim Daniels (left) 
and Ritivoi (right) presented their works to a modest audience in the university bookstore.
Shumway presents studies of famous rock stars, listening
RACHEL COHEN
Publisher
Society has long ?xated on 
stars and celebrities  ordinary people who become cultural icons, whether by talent 
or by sheer infamy.
But David Shumway, a 
Carnegie Mellon professor of 
English and literary and cultural studies, wants to know, 
What is stardom? What makes 
a star, and how do individuals attain star status?
Shumway addressed these 
questions in his talk Rock 
Star and Listening, delivered 
on Thursday in the Adamson 
Wing of Baker Hall. How did 
we get from Cary Grant to 
Mick Jagger? he asked. How 
is it that popular music went 
from ... something that people considered trivial, light 
entertainment ... to central to 
cultural identity?
Shumway offered a summary of his book Rock Star: 
The Making of Musical Icons 
from Elvis to Springsteen, 
which examines the concept of the rock star  its 
origins, its de?ning qualities, 
and its impact on music listening over the past century.
According to Shumway, 
the original rock star equivalents were movie stars like 
Humphrey Bogart and Cary 
Grant  actors who adopted 
culturally iconic personas in 
their work, distinct packages 
of attractive traits that might 
inspire imitation.
Their legacies gave way 
to more politicized stars like 
John Wayne, Marilyn Monroe, and James Dean and ultimately to Elvis Presley, Bob 
Dylan, and James Brown, 
who became increasingly in?uential and transformed the 
way people experience music.
Unlike celebrity, de?ned as 
someone who is known for 
their well-knownness, stardom requires skill and talent. 
All stars are celebrities, but 
not all celebrities are stars, 
Shumway explained.
Stardom requires some level of attractiveness, Shumway 
said: People want to either 
have the star or be the star. 
The stars persona must transcend the individual, existing 
symbolically or iconically in 
the publics imagining. In this 
way, the persona is not only 
accessible, but to a degree attainable by ordinary people.
Shumway focused his talk on 
three 20th-century rock stars. 
Elvis Presley is described by 
Shumway as a blend of rebelliousness and vulnerability. 
Presleys accessibility on 
network TV meant that fun 
could be experienced in living rooms of most American 
homes, and as a cultural 
icon he challenged a number of social norms: paying 
homage to African American 
music, performing as a working-class man, and bumping 
and grinding against gender 
norms that prescribed that 
only women display their 
bodies as sexual objects.
Presleys stardom gave way 
to Bob Dylan, initially a protest songwriter who gained 
attention as a full rock-n-roll 
musician with hit single Like 
a Rolling Stone. 
Dylan embodied the individual freedom of the bohemian, styling himself as a 
societal outsider. Later, godfather of soul James Brown 
came to fame as a traditional 
American success story, overcoming poverty and race barriers to attain stardom and 
using his status to in?uence 
politics and cultural trends.
Due to time constraints, 
Shumway cut his summary 
short, offering brief overviews 
of in?uential stars Joni Mitchell, who represented a shift 
to the personal songwriter, 
and Bruce Springsteen, who 
continued Dylans legacy as a 
politically engaged musician 
and hoped for a transformation in American government.
Shumway described the 
phenomenon of listening 
through rock stardom, when 
consumers of music feel an 
emotional connection to any 
recording by a particular star: 
Songs become signi?cant because a star produced it, not 
because of any stand-alone 
musical merit. 
Although we still see this 
phenomenon today, Shumway argues that stardom is 
necessarily dwindling: Stars 
simply dont have the same 
reach they did decades ago.
Shumway concluded with 
his assessment of the decline 
of rock stardom in recent 
years. 
According to Shumway, we 
have entered an era of distracted listening, characterized by ubiquitous music and 
listening while multitasking, 
in contrast to a previous time 
when music listening was an 
absorbing, attention-consuming experience. 
In this way, Shumway argued, popular music is becoming essentially trivial, just 
as it was before the era of rock 
stardom.
Kevin Zheng/Staff Photographer
David Shumway, a Carnegie Mellon professor of English, lectured on what it means to be a true star. 
fake text

---------------------------------------------------

A4  thetartan.org/news The Tartan  October 27, 2014
1The Lipper Award is given to the group with the lowest average decile ranking of three years Consistent Return 
for eligible funds over the three-year period ended 11/30/12 and 11/30/13, respectively. TIAA-CREF was ranked 
against 36 fund companies in 2012 and 48 fund companies in 2013 with at least ? ve equity, ? ve bond, or three 
mixed-asset portfolios. TIAA-CREF Individual & Institutional Services, LLC, and Teachers Personal Investors 
Services Inc. C18456A 2014 Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association of America  College Retirement 
Equities Fund (TIAA-CREF), 730 Third Avenue, New York, NY, 10017.
Consider investment objectives, risks, charges and expenses 
carefully before investing. Go to tiaa-cref.org for product and 
fund prospectuses that contain this and other information. 
Read carefully before investing. 2TIAA-CREF funds are 
subject to market and other risk factors. Past performance
does not guarantee future results.
LIKE A BROKEN RECORD.
OUR FUNDS HAVE A RECORD 
TIAA-CREF was named Best Overall Large Fund 
Company two years in a row by the independent 
research ? rm Lipper.1 See what our award-winning 
performance2 can do for your ? nancial health. 
The sooner you act, the better.
Learn more in one click at TIAA.org 
or call  -.
The Lipper Awards are based on a review 
of 36 companies 2012 and 48 companies 
2013 risk-adjusted performance.
BEST OVERALL LARGE FUND COMPANY1
5021A0002 C18456A BROKEN RECORD 10x15 NWS Various_1.indd
Cyan Magenta Yellow Black
73092
larger job fairs are just like 
Oh, startups, nothing to see 
here.
Kevin Collins, senior assistant director for the CPDC and 
another organizer of Spark, 
also noted that startups get 
lost in the crowd at larger job 
fairs. 
Startups and smaller 
companies, at a lot of different events, feel like they 
get lost between the larger 
companies, Collins said. So 
this is really a very informal, 
intimate setting, so they can 
talk to students. Its a lot less 
crowded; theres more room 
for dialogue.
Some Carnegie Mellon students are looking speci?cally 
for internships at startups. 
Rucha Patil, a masters student in Heinz Colleges School 
of Information Systems and 
Management, said that, although she went to the TOC, 
she is speci?cally looking to 
work for a startup. I would 
love to work with one of these 
companies, Patil said.
Mizgorski also emphasized 
how valuable it can be to work 
or intern at a startup. The experiences that the students 
can get for internships [at 
startups] can be priceless, 
Mizgorski said, because typically in a smaller company 
youre asked to do a lot more. 
Its not like a typical corporate situation where youre 
stuck doing one thing all 
summer.
Spark included more established companies like Pinterest, as well as companies 
like Branding Brand, a mobile 
commerce company founded 
by three Carnegie Mellon 
alumni in 2008, and Leanplum, an optimization solution for mobile apps founded 
in 2012.
Spark, Mizgorski said, 
aligns with Carnegie Mellons 
ever-growing entrepreneurial 
spirit. With the entrepreneurial spirit that the students have here they always 
sought out startups, either 
companies that they started 
themselves or ones that other 
students were starting, he 
said. So we realized that was 
a de?nite niche that needed 
to be addressed.
Spark lets startups shine
From SPARK, A1
From CONCERT, A1
information systems and 
human-computer interaction 
double major.
Landen and her co-chair, 
junior information systems 
major Jenny Yang, are excited 
for the concert, saying that 
they have gotten a lot of positive feedback from the student body.
Sarah Duncan, a sophomore logic and computation 
major is one such excited student. I think its fantastic. 
Im really excited that they 
booked a great band that lots 
of people are into. Its a band 
that is well-known enough 
that theres a following at 
CMU of people who listen 
regularly. But people are still 
excited to see them because 
not a ton of people have seen 
them already, Duncan said.
This worked out really 
well for us, Yang said. Im a 
big fan.
Landen shares Yangs excitement, saying that she has 
heard that its a fun show and 
that students who have already seen them are excited 
to see them again. The two 
have been involved in AB 
since their ?rst years here, 
and started working with 
smaller venues, such as the 
Underground and Skibo.
Ive loved planning events 
and meeting the artists. Im a 
concert junkie, so its perfect, 
Yang said.
Landen said that this position is just as rewarding, but 
on a larger scale. Its really 
fun, because you get to reach 
such a wide audience with 
these events, Landen said.
Students will be able to 
acquire tickets two weeks in 
advance of the show at the Information Desk, as per usual. 
They will be free with a valid 
Carnegie Mellon student ID.
The show will begin at 7 
p.m., and more information 
will be released on the AB 
Concerts Facebook page.
Walk the Moon to walk over to CMU for ABs fall concert

---------------------------------------------------

October 27, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/scitech  A5
SCITECH BRIEFS
Researchers create self-assembling microscale proteins
At the New York University Polytechnic School of 
Engineering, associate professor Jin Kim Monteclare 
and a group of collaborators 
designed nanoscale proteins 
bound to curcumin, a cancer 
therapeutic. The outcome was 
successful, self-assembling 
nanoscale proteins, which 
can bind to small molecules 
through a hydrophobic core.
To the researchers surprise, the ?bers of the protein 
grew from a nanoscale to a 
microscale diameter during 
incubation with curcumin. 
The signi?cant jump in size 
can potentially lead to new 
opportunities for using engineered protein ?bers in the 
?elds of medicine and nanotechnology, such as for scaffolds in tissue engineering or 
in nanowires for biosensors.
Through ?uorescent microscopy, the group was also 
able to con?rm the homogenous distribution of curcumin 
throughout the ?ber.
Their results have been 
published in the journal 
Biomacromolecules.
Source: ScienceDaily
New app solves math equations with phone camera
Photomath is a new smartphone app that allows the user 
to receive an instant solution 
to a math expression by simply 
taking a photo of the printed 
problem. 
The app also provides detailed instructions for ?nding 
the solution.
Earlier last week, PhotoMath was launched at the 
TechCrunch Disrupt conference in London. Free of 
charge, the app is currently 
available in the iTunes store.
For the past few years, the 
company Microblink has been 
working on developing algorithms that have enhanced 
the accuracy and speed of its 
text recognition technology. 
Through the app, Microblink 
hopes to promote its machine 
vision technology to other 
potentially interested companies.
While the app has its limitations, including the inability 
to recognize handwritten text 
or compute problems beyond 
middle school math, the company is focused on continuing 
to improve its technologies.
Source: TechCrunch
Large sunspot rotates toward and affects Earth
A sunspot facing Earth, 
called AR2192, has captured 
the attention of solar observatories and amateur astronauts. 
With an 80,000-mile diameter 
that could contain Jupiter, it is 
the largest observed sunspot 
since the beginning of the solar cycle in 2008.
Viewed as dark patches in 
the suns photosphere, sunspots cover regions of intense 
solar magnetism. AR2192 has 
emitted intense ?are activity that resulted in brief, highfrequency radio blackouts 
around the globe. Blackouts 
occur when radiation from the 
solar ?ares cause ionization 
effects in the Earths upper atmosphere, or ionosphere.
Precautions have been 
taken to minimize the damaging impacts of the solar ?ares, 
including advising aircraft to 
avoid traveling in certain regions, as well as telling workers at the International Space 
Station to stay in well-shielded 
areas. Unfortunately, parts of 
Sweden have already experienced small power outages.
Source: Discovery News
Nine cases of Ebola have been reported in the U.S.
Last month, Thomas E. 
Duncan was admitted to the 
Texas Health Presbyterian 
Hospital. He became the ?rst 
patient in the U.S. to be diagnosed with Ebola, a deadly viral disease.
Since then, more U.S. patients have been diagnosed 
with Ebola. Nina Pham, one 
of two nurses that was treating Duncan, became the ?rst 
person to contract the disease. 
After being treated in Texas 
for several days, Pham was 
transported to a special containment unit at the National 
Institutes of Health Clinical 
Center in Bethesda, Md.
The other nurse, Amber 
Vinson, also displayed symptoms of Ebola. She was quickly 
transported to Emory University Hospital in Atlanta, Ga. 
Emory, as well as the Nebraska 
Medical Center, have played a 
role in the recoveries of a few 
other Ebola patients.
Recently, Dr. Craig Spencer, a doctor in New York City 
became the ninth case of Ebola in the U.S..
Source: Forbes
Mans genome from 45,000 years ago is reconstructed
A current paper in Nature 
showcases the work of a research team that had reconstructed the complete genome 
of a 45,000-year-old man by 
using samples from a thighbone. 
Originating from the Irtysh 
River in Siberia, near the UstIshim settlement, the bone is 
the oldest modern human fossil ever found outside of Africa 
and the Near East.
Svante Pbo, a Swedish 
biologist, and his team created the genome by overlapping DNA fragments sampled 
from the bone. From there, 
they discovered that the owner belonged to a lineage that 
gave rise to all non-African 
humans around 60,000 years 
ago. Also, by comparing the 
amount of Neanderthal DNA 
in the ancient man and in living humans, the scientists estimated the rate at which the 
Neanderthal DNA had fragmented. In turn, they presented strong evidence that early 
humans had interbred with 
Neanderthals.
Source: The New York Times
Space simulation of Mars taking place near a volcano
In mid-October, Hawaii 
Space Exploration Analog and 
Simulation (HI-SEAS) team 
members began their space 
travel simulation in a Marslike habitat on Earth. For eight 
months, six crew members 
and two backups will live in a 
geodesic dome located on the 
side of the Hawaiian volcano, 
Mauna Loa. The basaltic terrain and sparse vegetation 
near Mauna Loa will mirror 
environmental conditions on 
Mars.
Inside the dome are two 
?oors. The 878-square-foot 
ground ?oor includes a kitchen, bathroom, laboratory, 
and exercise room. On the 
424-square-foot second ?oor 
are six small bedrooms. The 
aim of the simulation is to 
study the human factors that 
contribute to astronaut crew 
function and performance 
over time. Funded by NASA, 
the project will be the longest 
space travel simulation conducted in the U.S.
Source: NBC News
COMPILED BY
Sharon Wu
HOW THINGS WORKEbola outbreak leads to new drug development initiatives
RAGHUNANDAN AVULA
Staffwriter
The whole world has been 
gripped by the recent Ebola 
virus outbreak, with multiple countries attempting to 
establish effective practices 
to prevent the spread of the 
pathogen. In addition to the 
active battle against the virus, 
there is a newfound interest 
in fully understanding the virus to determine why it is so 
pernicious.
The scienti?c community 
has known about the Ebola 
virus since the ?rst reported 
outbreak in 1976. 
The virus is not always 
around but emerges in outbreaks. The largest previous 
outbreak occurred in 2000 
and affected 425 people with 
a fatality rate of 53 percent according to the World Health 
Organization (WHO). Currently, the world is experiencing the largest outbreak to 
date with recent statistics by 
the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) reporting a total 
of 10,141 cases with 4,922 
deaths.
However, when compared 
to the leading causes of death, 
the Ebola virus doesnt even 
compare to the number of cases and deaths for other diseases such as cancer, HIV/AIDS, 
or even in?uenza (the ?u).
Ebola has garnered a notorious reputation because it 
can be spread through bodily 
?uids and has been characterized by the WHO as a severe, 
often fatal illness with an average fatality rate of 50 percent. 
Additionally, there are currently no approved treatments 
or vaccines.
A recent survey by the Harvard School of Public Health 
reported that in the United 
States alone, 40 percent of 
Americans believe that there 
will be a large outbreak of 
Ebola, and 25 percent believe 
that someone in their immediate family will be affected.
A lot of these fears are far 
from reality since many experts believe that an Ebola 
outbreak of that scope in the 
U.S. is near impossible. Ebola 
can be prevented with effective practices and a strong 
medical infrastructure.
One important question 
scientists are trying to answer 
Courtesy of Phil Moyer via Flickr
Transmission electron micrograph of the RNA ?lovirus that causes Ebola hemorrhagic fever.
See EBOLA, A7
PayPal co-founder pays a visit to Carnegie Mellon campus
NIVEDITA CHOPRA
Assistant Copy Manager
Max Levchin, co-founder 
and former chief technology of?cer of PayPal, visited 
Carnegie Mellon on Tuesday. 
Levchin currently runs HVF, 
which stands for Hard, Valuable, Fun, and is an umbrella 
for various big data projects. 
HVF has spun out two companies, Af?rm and Glow, both of 
which solve innovative problems using big data.
Glow is an app that helps 
couples, typically in their 30s 
or 40s, who are trying to have 
a child. It relies on the power 
of big data to help women 
predict the times when they 
are most likely to conceive. 
Women who want to conceive 
use the app to note down 
their mood and body vitals, 
including basal body temperature, period cycle, and other 
metrics. 
Glow analyzes all this data 
and uses it to come up with 
a model that can predict the 
time period during which a 
woman is most likely to conceive, down to a few hours. 
Glow also provides a way for 
couples to allay the cost of 
infertility treatment, should 
they need it after ten months 
of regularly using the app to 
try to conceive.
Levchin also spoke about 
his other venture, Af?rm, 
which looks to rede?ne consumer credit by allowing users to make payments in ?xed 
monthly installments. 
The service is consumerfriendly in that it is committed to clear, upfront pricing, 
and doesnt charge any hidden 
fees. 
The amount of each installment is decided at checkout, 
and the service uses big data 
to model the consumer credit 
reliability and decide the ?xed 
fee that each customer must 
pay for the loan.
Levchin is a supporter for 
women in technology, and 
believes that there is a lack of 
female role models for young 
women interested in science 
and technology. 
He said he hopes to scour 
Silicon Valley for what he 
called women nerds like Marissa Mayer, the chief executive of?cer of Yahoo. He hopes 
that elevating them to the 
front page  of TechCrunch 
will help provide inspiration 
for young girls. He noted that 
young girls need such women 
to look up to and justi?ed it, 
saying, As much as I would 
love to, I should not be my 
daughters inspiration.
Jonathan Leung/Photo Editor
Left: Co-founder of PayPal Max Levchin speaks at a press roundtable. Right: Levchin is currently Chairman of Yelp and Glow, an app for reproductive health, and CEO of Af?rm, a new ?nancial services technology company.

---------------------------------------------------

A6  thetartan.org/scitech The Tartan  October 27, 2014
THE NYU SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING  IS VISITING  PITTSBURGH. JOIN US. 
The NYU Polytechnic School of Engineering offers graduate programs in 
engineering, science and technology management that empower you to put 
your ideas into action.
Located in the Brooklyn Tech Triangle, the School of Engineering is a major 
player in New York Citys ongoing tech renaissance. In this epicenter for business 
and technology, youll connect to thousands of organizations, from creative tech 
start-ups to world leaders in technology, media, engineering and ?nance.
PITTSBURGH INFORMATION SESSION AND RECEPTION
Wednesday, November 12, 2014  6:00pm9:00pm 
Westin Convention Center, Pittsburgh 
1000 Penn Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA
Register 
engineering.nyu.edu/grad/cmu
Cant make this event?  
Attend a virtual information session  
Tuesday, December 9, 2014  5:00pm  
engineering.nyu.edu/grad/virtual/cmu
GRADUATE PROGRAMS
? Applied Physics, MS 
? Biomedical Engineering, MS, PhD 
? Biotechnology, MS 
? Chemical Engineering, MS, PhD 
? Civil Engineering, MS, PhD 
? Computer Science, MS, PhD 
? Computer Engineering, MS 
? Construction Management, MS 
? Electrical Engineering, MS, PhD 
? Environmental Engineering, MS 
? Financial Engineering, MS 
? Integrated Digital Media, MS 
? Management of Technology, MS, PhD 
? Manufacturing Engineering, MS 
? Mechanical Engineering, MS, PhD 
?  and more
NPG-14-2231_Pittsburgh-CMU.indd   110/16/14   2:27 PM
PUGWASH COLUMN
Gender inequality in technology industry must be remedied
CARL DOERSCH
Special to the Tartan
After keeping them secret 
for many years, a number 
of prominent tech companies have recently released 
diversity statistics for their 
workforces. 
Even the companies in 
question agree that they are 
disappointing. Only 18 percent of Facebooks software 
engineers are female. For 
Google, 17 percent of tech 
workers are female. Microsoft, 
Amazon, and many others report similar numbers. 
As some Pugwash members 
pointed out, the problem isnt 
restricted to computer science 
either; the statistics are similar in engineering and perhaps 
even worse in physics and 
math. Hence, this week Pugwash aimed to determine to 
what extent this gender ratio 
is a problem and what, if anything, should be done about 
it. Since diversity is a complex subject, we focused only 
on gender in the tech workplace. While we acknowledge 
that minority races and other 
groups have also been the 
subject of unequal treatment, 
and that the workplace is not 
the only place where prejudice 
can be a problem (the Internet and massively multiplayer 
video games were mentioned 
as other places), a single hour 
was not enough to discuss 
them all.
Before proposing ways 
to promote diversity in the 
workplace, its important to 
?rst understand the impact 
that society can have on professions chosen by different 
genders. This question turns 
out to be remarkably dif?cult 
to answer, since its unethical 
to run controled experiments 
which might profoundly alter 
a persons job choices.
First, if its not social factors, then what could it be? 
Biology likely plays some 
role in professional development. The brains of men and 
women have measurably different architectures. For example, research published in 
the Proceedings of the National 
Academy of Sciences has shown 
that women have more connections between the two 
hemispheres of their brains. 
Furthermore, evolutionary 
psychology suggests that the 
different societal roles played 
by our ancestors based on gender may have in?uenced innate skills and proclivities.
But does biology explain 
the differences were seeing? 
Almost certainly not. According to research recently summarized by NPR, up until 
about 1984, womens participation in law, physical sciences, medicine, and computer 
science were all increasing 
rapidly, and at about the same 
pace. However, after 1984, 
womens participation in computer science started dropping, in stark contrast to the 
other skilled professions. Biology, which remains roughly 
constant over time, can hardly 
explain this shift. Research by 
UCLA professor Jane Margolis 
provides a different explanation. In the mid 80s, computers were marketed toward 
boys, likely because marketers connected them with toy 
tools like Tonka trucks. Overall, Pugwash agreed that societys biases  giving toy 
tools to boys and dolls to girls 
 can have profound effects 
on children. Worse, these effects compound with age, as 
women feel more isolated in 
traditionally male-dominated 
?elds like computer science.
There are two reasons 
that this is a problem. First, 
inequality is fundamentally 
unethical. If a woman would 
be happiest as a computer 
scientist, then its harmful to 
deny her that opportunity or 
to somehow degrade her experience in the position relative 
to a mans. Second, its inef?-
cient. The world is at its most 
productive when everyone 
with computer science talent 
can make use of it.
Pugwash agreed that this 
is a problem rooted in society 
and culture. What can be done 
about it? The idea of af?rmative action  in the sense of 
promoting women even when 
they are not the most quali?ed 
 was endorsed by some and 
criticized by others. While af?rmative action will increase 
womens participation in tech 
in the short term, it may inadvertently decrease womens 
con?dence in their skills, causing them to leave the ?eld later. Less drastic measures were 
more popular. For instance, 
employers should be aware of 
their own biases and combat 
them during the hiring process. Parents should also avoid 
propagating biases through 
their childrens play activities 
and ensure that girls have as 
many opportunities as boys to 
engineer and solve problems.
Student Pugwash is a nonadvocacy, educational organization that discusses the implications of science. This article is 
a discussion on gender inequality in the technology industry.
Emily Giedzinski/Staff Artist
Pugwash agreed 
that this is a 
problem rooted 
in society and 
culture.

---------------------------------------------------

October 27, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/scitech  A7
is why this outbreak has been 
the deadliest to date. The origin of the virus this year has 
been traced back to Guckdou, a small town that is in the 
southern corner of Guinea. 
Its location near the borders of Liberia and Sierra 
Leone allowed the virus to 
spread in these countries, 
which are ranked as three 
of the poorest in the world. 
Their lack of medical expertise and corrupt governments 
without proper infrastructure 
has caused the death toll to 
escalate.
Like most viruses, the various strains of the Ebola virus 
all rely on the host for their 
survival and replication. Once 
in the body, the virus inserts 
its genetic material into our 
cells and uses our cells machinery to replicate itself. 
Once producing progeny, the 
virus will cause the infected 
cell to explode, releasing the 
newly constructed virus. This 
cycle continues as the virus 
spreads to multiple organ 
systems. As cells die, more 
complications arise.
The ?rst symptoms are the 
sudden onset of fever, fatigue, 
muscle pain, headache, and 
sore throat. This is followed 
by vomiting, diarrhea, rash, 
symptoms of impaired kidney and liver function, and in 
some cases, both internal and 
external bleeding.
Everyday we are exposed 
to a variety of pathogens such 
as bacteria and viruses, but 
our body has a powerful immune system that protects us 
from getting sick. 
The cells of the immune 
system that travel through 
the bloodstream are able to 
differentiate the proteins on 
the outer surfaces of foreign 
particles and the proteins 
found on normal body cells. 
While identifying a pathogen, 
the immune system produces 
antibodies that can bind to 
and target the pathogen. The 
killer cells of the immune 
system identify this antibody 
and engulf and destroy the 
pathogen.
In the case of Ebola, the 
virus is adept at infecting the 
cells of the immune system, 
reducing their count in the 
bloodstream and thus limiting the immune systems 
effectiveness. 
This allows the virus to 
propagate in the body and 
overcome the immune system.
Scientists do not lack treatments or vaccines because the 
Ebola virus is too scienti?cally 
complex to treat. 
The fault can be put on 
drug companies that ignored 
developing Ebola drugs because of the small subset of 
people that were actually being infected. Their priority is 
to focus on diseases which affect a large population so that, 
in the end, they make more 
revenue.
The recent Ebola outbreak 
has led to a renewed interest 
in developing a drug.
The fundamental tenet of 
general virus treatments and 
vaccines is the enhancement 
of the bodys immune system 
to be better ?tted to kill the 
disease. 
A vaccine works by exposing the body to a harmless 
version of the same virus so 
that the body recognizes it 
and creates antibodies against 
the virus. The bodys immune 
system has the ability to remember pathogens that have 
infected it so if the virus ever 
enters the body, its response 
will quickly and ef?ciently 
destroy the virus before symptoms arise.
Vaccines can only help to 
prevent a disease but will not 
be useful for those who are 
already infected. BioCryst 
Pharmaceuticals is currently 
developing a drug that directly targets the viruss ability to 
replicate. 
The company has seen 
success in treating similar 
symptoms in monkeys. Another company, Tekmira Pharmaceuticals, is developing a 
treatment using a new technique in biotechnology that 
involves encapsulating RNA 
molecules in fats and lipids. 
The RNA speci?c for the virus has the ability to enter the 
infected cells and bind to the 
virus RNA, preventing it from 
replicating itself. 
Many of the details of these 
treatments are kept secret as 
these companies are competing to develop the most ef?-
cient drug. 
After developing a viable 
treatment plan, it takes an 
extended period of time to 
conduct the necessary clinical 
trials and get FDA approval 
before the drug can be mass 
produced and administered. 
In the case of Ebola, the Food 
and Drug Administration is 
trying to speed up trials to 
get the treatments out into 
the public. GlaxoSmithKline 
is already in the ?rst phase 
of clinical trials and estimate 
that they will have a drug 
sometime in 2015.
Still, the only thing medical 
professionals can currently do 
is provide Ebola patients with 
basic supportive care such as 
maintaining hydration. They 
must also ensure that their 
interaction with others is limited to prevent transmission.
HOW THINGS WORK
Lack of Ebola treatments is 
not because virus is complex
EBOLA, from A5
The recent 
Ebola outbreak 
has led to 
a renewed 
interest in 
developing a 
drug.
ROHAN VARMA
Assistant SciTech Editor
Every year, six Nobel Prizes 
are awarded for achievements 
in medicine and physiology, 
physics, chemistry, literature, 
economics, and peace initiatives. These are some of the 
highest awards that a professional can receive in recognition for their work, documenting projects that often took 
decades to ?nish. However, 
if you were asked to explain 
why some of these titans in 
their ?eld received the credit 
that they did, would you be 
able to?
Last Monday, the Carnegie 
Mellon University Lecture 
Series, the Triple Helix, and 
the Mellon College of Science 
hosted a panel discussion in 
Doherty Hall featuring Carnegie Mellon professors who 
explained what made the discoveries of the Nobel Prizes 
from 2014 special.
First, Alison Barth, associate professor in biological 
sciences at Carnegie Mellon, spoke about the prize for 
physiology and medicine. This 
year, the prize was awarded 
to Edvard Moser, May-Britt 
Moser, and John OKeefe, 
three neuroscientists who got 
their claim to fame through 
research in memory and spatial navigation.
According to her explanation, the three scientists 
received the Prize for their 
work published in 2005 which 
described how space is represented in the brain. Working 
with mice, they were able to 
track the activity of speci?c 
neurons in the mices brains. 
What they saw was that as the 
mice ran around randomly inside a box, the neurons in the 
hippocampus, an area highly 
associated with spatial navigation, would ?re in a gridlike formation. No matter how 
the mouse walked, this grid 
remained true.
Barth joked that every time 
a scientist sees something 
with some semblance of a pattern, they get excited. That 
was the case here. 
The three scientists used 
this basis to explain that there 
are certain cells in our brain, 
called place cells, that keep 
track of our physical surroundings by maintaining 
some sort of grid.
Next, Marcel Bruchez, associate professor of biological sciences and chemistry at 
Carnegie Mellon, spoke about 
the prize awarded in the ?eld 
of chemistry. 
Providing a backstory to 
the reason this years chemistry Prize was awarded, Bruchez explained how an early 
20th century scientist named 
Ernst Abbe declared that the 
best possible resolution that 
our microscopes would be 
able to pick up is 200 nanometers.
Resolution refers to the 
ability of a microscope to delineate between two points. 
This limit was called Abbes 
Law of Limiting Resolution. 
However, in the early 2000s, 
Eric Betzig, Stefan W. Hell, 
and William E. Moerner broke 
this law.
They were interested in 
solving this problem because 
a resolution of 200 nanometers is not suf?cient for modern research. Since many of 
the molecules in our cells are 
on the order of less than 10 
nanometers, 200 nanometers 
simply cannot give enough 
information. The three professors were able to ?nd a way 
past this limit, all the way 
down to a resolution of 48 
nanometers.
They did this by exploiting the fact that they could 
observe very small points of 
a picture at a very high resolution. Once they worked 
that out, they propagated the 
area of observation over the 
entire sample until the entire 
piece was observed in the high 
resolution.
Finally, Randall Feenstra, professor of physics at 
Carnegie Mellon University, 
explained the Nobel Prize in 
physics: The research of Isamu 
Akasaki, Hiroshi Amano, and 
Shuji Nakamura, which was 
published around 20 years 
ago and which was centered 
on ?nding a way to make blue 
light-emitting diodes (LEDs).
These blue LEDs were an 
important discovery because 
they enabled a low-energy 
source of white light. Also, 
their work resulted in LEDs 
that could omit red, green, 
and blue. This means that 
they could be used to display 
any color necessary now.
The problem was that in 
the past, when people attempted to make a blue LED, 
they were unable to create 
one that would last long and 
wouldnt deteriorate. On a 
basic level, an LED is made 
by taking some element and 
forming a crystal out of it. In 
the past, a speci?c element 
was used that allowed for 
kinks to form and errors to 
be replicated, deteriorating 
the light. However, the three 
scientists used the compound 
gallium nitride (GaN), which 
?lled in the kinks in the crystal to ensure that the light 
worked.
Turnout for the event was 
quite large, as the entire lecture hall was ?lled. The university plans to make these 
talks an annual event, in order to continue to provide 
students the opportunity to 
better understand the science 
behind these awards.
Editors note: Rohan Varma is 
the editor-in-chief of the Triple 
Helix at Carnegie Mellon.
MCS faculty explain 2014 Nobel Prizes at panel discussion
Courtesy of Marcel Bruchez
Marcel Bruchez is a professor of biological sciences and chemistry.
Courtesy of Alison Barth
Alison Barth is a professor of biological sciences.
Courtesy of Randall Feenstra
Randall Feenstra is a professor of physics at Carnegie Mellon.

---------------------------------------------------

Office: University Center 314
Web: www.thetartan.org
E-mail: contact@thetartan.org
Mail:
The Tartan
Box 119, UC Suite 103 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
The Tartan is a student newspaper at Carnegie Mellon University, funded in part by the student 
activities fee. It is a weekly publication by students during the fall and spring semesters, printed by 
Trib Total Media. The Tartan is not an official publication of Carnegie Mellon University. 
The Editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The 
Tartan Editorial Board. Columns, Editorial Cartoons, and Reviews are the opinions of their 
individual creators. The Tartan Editorial Staff reserves the right to withhold from publication 
any copy it deems unfit.
Letters to the Editor are the opinions of their authors. Letters from within the University community take precedence. Letters intended for publication must be signed and include the authors 
address and telephone number for verification; letters must not exceed 350 words. Authors names 
may be withheld from publication upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject 
any letter. Letters must be submitted by 5 p.m. on the Wednesday before publication by mail or to 
forum@thetartan.org.
Editorial Staff
Editorial Board
RACHEL COHEN *
Publisher
BRADEN KELNER *
Editor-in-Chief
ARIEL HOFFMAIER
Forum Editor 
KATE GROSCHNER *
Contributing Editor
CHLOE THOMPSON
Staffwriter
BRENT HEARD *
Contributing Editor
JUSTIN MCGOWN
Staffwriter
LAURA SCHERB *
Operations Manager
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
News Editor
BROOKE KUEI
SciTech Editor
JOEY PEISER
Pillbox Editor
ZEKE ROSENBURG
Sports Editor
MARYYANN LANDLORD
Comics Editor
JONATHAN LEUNG
Photo Editor
MICHELLE WAN
Art Editor
MARTHA PATERSON
Online Editor
SARAH GUTEKUNST
Personnel Manager
ANNE-SOPHIE KIM
Layout Manager
WILL CRICHTON
Systems Manager
JOHN HUO
Advertising Manager
DESIREE XU
Business Manager
JAMES WU
Copy Manager
NIVEDITA CHOPRA
Asst. Copy Manager
EVAN KAHN
Asst. Copy Manager
BENJAMIN CHANG
Asst. Business Manager
ROHAN VARMA
Asst. SciTech Editor
XIYU WANG
Asst. Forum Editor
JENNA BODNAR
Asst. Pillbox Editor
EUNICE OH
Asst. Art Editor
SENIOR STAFF 
Carl Glazer, Greg Hanneman, Alan Vangpat
COPY
Lula Beresford-Banker, Francesca Begos, 
Christopher Benson, Amelia Britton, Gordon 
Estes, Rin Fair, Stephanie Stern, Emily 
Giedzinski, Stephen Stern, Emily Tsui
LAYOUT
Isabel Bleimeister, Yong Gun Choe, Michael 
Das, Rin Fair, Aishwarya Guda, Seungmin Ha, 
Korrawat Jianthanakanon, Rissa Lee, Udaya 
Malik, Evelyn Pandos, Ian Tanaya, Abhy 
Vytheeswaran  
ADVERTISING
Alison Chiu, Anuva Kulkarni
 2014 The Tartan, all rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN: 0890-3107* Denotes executive committee member
A8  thetartan.org/forum The Tartan  October 27, 2014
FROM THE EDITORIAL BOARD
CMU rebranding should iterate existing values
The Carnegie Mellon community 
received an email from President 
Subrah Suresh on Oct. 16 detailing 
the Carnegie Mellon Strategic Planning process. This is an initiative 
that includes examining how the 
university presents itself to the public and sets the course for the universitys future in a changing global 
landscape. 
The email presents a threepronged approach, and announces 
upcoming efforts such as the national search for a Vice President of 
Marketing and Communications. 
Among these efforts is a partnership 
with global branding and communications ?rm Edelman to aid in the 
launch of the Brand Development 
Project.
As Sureshs email emphasized, 
the Brand Development project 
is not about changing our culture, 
creating new logos or launching advertising campaigns. Rather, it will 
be about taking our existing unique 
culture and strengths, and articulating them more powerfully and 
coherently to an increasingly global 
audience.
The Brand Development Project 
is an important and necessary initiative at this juncture, especially 
considering that the schools current 
logo is the three words, Carnegie 
Mellon University. The rhetoric surrounding messages about Carnegie 
Mellons brand are often populated 
with heavily used buzzwords such 
as interdisciplinary and innovation  ideals that are important to 
Carnegie Mellons identity, but are 
often left unaccompanied by substantive messages about who we are 
as a university.
The Tartan agrees that the branding process should not be a reassessment, but a revamping of existing 
values and messages about our community. Even further, The Tartan 
hopes that the rebranding effort will 
not only reiterate these values, but 
also pair them with substantive messages about the university.
Emily Giedzinski/Staff Artist
August Wilson Center positive for city culture
On Oct. 21, the Heinz Endowments, the Pittsburgh Foundation, 
and the Richard King Mellon Foundations purchase of the August Wilson Center for African American Culture for $8.49 million was approved 
by the Allegheny County Common 
Pleas Orphans Court. The center has 
been struggling with debt since its 
opening in 2008, but the sale comes 
without any debt or liens, and leaves 
the center focused on African American culture. 
Given the centers precarious ?-
nancial position since its opening, 
the guidance of three in?uential 
and successful foundations can only 
be helpful. Furthermore, this sale is 
a testament to the thriving arts and 
culture scene in Pittsburgh, especially because the building will retain its 
original purpose and be kept open to 
promote African American art and 
culture. 
With this new beginning, the 
center has the potential to become 
a thriving hub for African American 
culture and expression, especially as 
the three foundations plan to establish an African American-led nonpro?t organization to maintain the 
center. Additionally, the three organizations plan to invest $4.5 million 
into the centers operational costs for 
the next few years. The August Wilson Center will begin the new chapter of its life debt-free, with a generous fund to ensure its future success. 
The revamped center will be a 
good addition to the wide array of 
cultural opportunities in Pittsburgh. 
The city is known for its various museums and exhibitions, including the 
Mattress Factory, the Byham Theater, and the Carnegie Museum of 
Art, to name a few. The addition of 
the August Wilson Center rounded 
out these offerings with a speci?c 
location focused on the artistic contributions of the Pittsburgh African 
American community, which are a 
vital and vibrant portion of the citys 
culture. 
The three organizations joint 
purchase of the center was a boon for 
both the center itself, and the city at 
large. The August Wilson Center for 
African American Culture has had a 
noble and important mission from its 
inception, but perhaps this new beginning with renewed logistical support will offer a chance for the center 
to achieve those goals. 
Michael Dunn conviction may set precedent
Last week, Michael Dunn was 
sentenced to life in prison for the 
?rst-degree murder of Jordan Davis, an African American 17-year-old 
who was ?red at ten times by Dunn 
for playing loud music in an SUV outside a Jacksonville, Fla. convenience 
store. The sentence follows Dunns 
initial February trial in which the 
jury hung, and may serve as a precedent in similar violent crimes which 
are clearly racially motivated.  
From Trayvon Martin to Michael 
Brown to countless less-publicized 
incidents, the United States has 
shown itself to be a country largely 
indifferent to justice for young black 
men  at least at the level of infrastructure, and surely in the hearts of 
millions of individuals. George Zimmerman was acquitted of all charges 
last year, and today he is a murderer 
who walks free. 
Meanwhile, the dust in Ferguson 
is hardly settled, even as mainstream 
media attention and public attention 
wane. Michael Browns killer, the 
white cop Darren Wilson, far from 
being convicted of a crime, has not 
been charged and is awaiting a grand 
jury decision on paid administrative 
leave. 
As militarized cops continue to 
beat down protestors, racists across 
America have raised over $200,000 
in Wilsons name online, apparently 
as a sort of extra reward for the murder of a black teenager. 
Dunn is the ?rst high-pro?le case 
in recent memory that has closed in 
favor of the black victim. The ruling 
is especially encouraging considering Floridas Stand Your Ground 
law, which has often been evoked in 
such cases, including Zimmermans. 
The Tartan can only hope that 
Dunn is the ?rst in a new wave of 
justi?ed convictions for the murder 
of young black men which has long 
been a contentious issue in this country. However, we know too well the 
short lifespan of the publics anger 
over injustice. 
The publics sympathies are limited, since to care deeply and continuously about any important, 
complicated issue is exhausting to 
the point of impossibility. Nevertheless, the next Jordan Davis will blast 
through the papers sooner or later. 
Detangling the threads of long-held 
racism in American society requires 
endurance.
Apple Pay will keep credit hackers at bay
In a world where millions of users information can be compromised in a matter of seconds, it is 
hard to believe that Americans still 
continue to stand by their half-century-old magnetic stripe cards. This 
outdated technology, in which users 
must reveal their full name, credit 
card payment number, and security 
code, as well as other sensitive information, has seen tens of millions 
of security compromises in the last 
year alone.
Target, the Home Depot, and 
most recently, Staples, have seen 
just how easy it is to have information compromised when they are essentially storing what is a goldmine 
of tens of millions of credit cards.
Apple Pay and other wireless NFC 
payment systems may ?nally be the 
solution to this issue. With Apple Pay, 
the retailer is presented with no personal information from the person 
on the other side of the payment; the 
only thing received on their end is a 
one-time payment code in order to 
carry out the transaction.
Apple Pay represents the innovation that credit card companies 
should have brought years ago. After testing Apple Pay at the Craig 
Street Subway, I can conclude that 
it is as simple and easy to use as 
advertised. One simply walks up to 
the register, points their phone at 
the payment device, and holds their 
?ngerprint down for veri?cation. Its 
that simple. Perhaps the most exciting part about it is that while using 
it, the customer does not have to 
worry about who they are handing 
their credit card to and where the 
information is being stored.
Apply Pay has had a few glitches 
since its launch, such as Bank of 
America customers being double 
charged for some purchases, but 
with a technology this new, it may 
take a bit of time to wire out all of 
the glitches and issues. However, 
once perfected, removed of issues, 
and accepted at a wider range of 
retailers, Apple Pay has the opportunity to revolutionize the way people 
make purchases.
The potential for success associated with Apple Pay is due to the 
fact that Apple does not wish to be 
the middleman. None of the transaction activity from Apple Pay is stored 
on Apples servers, and Apple is taking a fee-free, hands-off approach to 
mobile payments. Its goal is not to 
pro?t off of single purchases; it is to 
sell more iDevices and become the 
new standard for mobile payments.
The most disappointing thing 
about Apple Pay is that PNC and 
many other major banks were not 
included with the initial release. 
While Apple Pay will support most 
banks and cards in the future, it only 
supports a handful at launch.
In addition, the speedy convenience of Apple Pay is entirely in 
the hands of the retailer. If the retailer spends thirty seconds telling 
you about their rewards card each 
time you make a purchase, the experience is ruined. Because of this, 
Apple should incorporate rewards 
and loyalty cards into its Passbook 
application and add a feature that 
automatically sends rewards information upon making a purchase. 
In addition, Apple should create 
an Apple Pay policy that retailers 
cannot ask about loyalty cards, but 
Passbook displays available loyalty 
cards to the user upon request.
Because of Apples success in getting support from all of the major 
banks and credit card companies, 
it has the potential to revolutionize 
the mobile payment market. Magnetic stripe cards are a completely 
outdated technology that put all 
users at risk. It is time that a major 
company like Apple comes along 
and sets a new standard for the way 
we pay. While only time will tell 
the success of Apple Pay, I will be 
surprised if a signi?cant portion of 
Americans are still attached to their 
magnetic stripe cards in a decade.
Brandon Schmuck (bschmuck@) is a 
staffwriter for The Tartan.
BRANDON SCHMUCK
Braden Kelner/Editor-in-Chief

---------------------------------------------------

A PERSONS OPINION
The Tartan is coming off of a wonderfully restful weekend. So we asked,
What was your favorite part of fall break?
Compiled by Yeongwoo Hwang 
October 27, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/forum  A9
At the start of October, the stateowned power company of Saskatchewan, Canada, began operating a 
new state-of-the-art power plant. 
Its the ?rst of its kind: a coal burning plant that manages to drastically 
cut its CO2 emissions by capturing 
up to 90 percent of the greenhouse 
gas produced, then pumping it deep 
underground, below what geologists 
assure is a nonpermeable layer of 
stone.
I believe them, although Im sure 
that, as this technology is used on 
more and more plants, well see failures on occasion, and ?xing them 
will prove costly. Plus, the sequestration technology is being touted as 
equivalent to taking 250,000 cars off 
the road, which is something I have 
no complaints with. However, what 
I do have a problem with is the fact 
that this plant will still be adding 
27,777 cars to the road with just the 
10 percent of CO2 that will be escaping into the atmosphere.
In the meantime, all of the other 
coal- and fossil fuel-?red plants currently in use are releasing more than 
their fair share of CO2 (not to mention toxic radioactive ash). There are 
ways to clean up the fossil fuel-based 
power generation and, as retro?ts 
to existing plants, sequestration 
technology is a worthwhile pursuit. 
But its like switching from cigars to 
?ltered cigarettes: At the end of the 
day, youre still addicted to something that is actively harming you.
The companies that stand to profit the most from our current global 
reliance on fossil fuels are attempting to do what tobacco companies 
did in the 1950s and 60s, when the 
scienti?c evidence proving the link 
between cancer and cigarettes, cigars, pipes, and chewing tobacco, 
became almost universally accepted. 
Those companies were able to use 
their massive pools of capital to slow 
the implementation of regulations 
to promote the health of the population, which had the side bene?t of 
decreasing the environmentally-taxing cultivation of tobacco.
Then, as now, opposition came 
from politicians taking money from a 
powerful economic block. They were 
backed by right-wing commentators 
who valued the personal liberty of 
major corporations and their owners to make a pro?t at the expense 
of both individuals and the health of 
the greater public. The current capacity of right-wing pundits to deny, 
misinterpret, and outright lie about 
the overwhelming scienti?c data 
about climate change was alive and 
well then too.
Consider Ayn Rand, the intellectual godmother to the libertarian 
movement, and a habitual smoker. 
Rand decried the anti-smoking lobby her entire life, even after having 
a cancerous lung removed in 1974. 
The most prominent ?oral arrangement at her funeral was a 6-foot-tall 
dollar sign.
Oil companies and the right wing 
both continue to point to clean 
coal technologies and talk about 
the ?nancial costs associated with 
developing and installing alternative 
energy sources, as well as the loss 
of jobs in the mining sector. Theyre 
right that it wont be a simple matter to move away from traditional 
fossil fuels: Theyre relatively easy 
to get, and cheap compared to the 
alternatives.
Quitting smoking, like kicking 
the fossil fuel habit, isnt easy. But 
despite the urgings of groups like 
Greenpeace, it doesnt have to be 
cold turkey. Nuclear energy has the 
potential to be our Nicorette. It has 
its drawbacks in the form of longlasting waste, but its comparatively 
easy to collect and control, and 
theres a lot less of it to capture and 
store. Carbon sequestration solves 
one problem of fossil fuels, but produces another.
We need to accept the fact fossil 
fuels are a dangerous base for our society that might prove one day to be 
an existential threat. Weve already 
had warning signs in the form of 
higher tides, bigger storms, and dryer droughts. As a society, we need to 
suck it up and kick the habit.
Justin McGown (jmcgown@) is a 
staffwriter for The Tartan.
Vatican must adopt changed LGBT stance
On Oct. 18, the Catholic church 
ended its assembly of bishops in 
Vatican City with results that proved 
underwhelming after the optimistic 
interim report. 
This assembly, known as The 
Synod of Bishops on the Family, was 
called one year ago by Pope Francis 
with the intent to broaden the accepted idea of family. This gathering, however, only reaf?rmed the archaic attitude toward homosexuality 
and non-traditional families, which 
an unfortunate majority of conservative church leaders maintain.
Almost a week prior to the meetings adjournment, a statement had 
been released consisting of a draft 
of the language contained in the 
?nal report. This draft, while qualifying that same-sex unions cannot 
be valued the same as marriage between a man and a woman, openly 
discussed the positives in same-sex 
relationships and the need for parishes to accept them, as well as their 
children. There was mention of the 
current inef?ciency in the annulment process and encouragement 
for divorced people to receive Holy 
Communion.
Also contained in the mid-assembly release was the acceptance of 
common-law marriage in the face of 
poverty or in other parts of the world 
where matrimony is considered lavish. This draft gave the impression 
that the Catholic church was taking 
action on many modern issues faced 
by marginalized groups, and in a 
positive direction. The ?nal report, 
however, did not af?rm such hopes.
Any mention of same-sex relationships, divorced people, or common-law marriage was removed 
from the ?nal document. The vote 
of almost 200 bishops present fell 
short of the required two-thirds majority, and the entire section would 
have gone unmentioned had Pope 
Francis not insisted it be discussed 
in preparation for the next Synod 
of Bishops on the Family in October 
2015.
It seems, at this point, the only 
hope of these progressive social 
ideas being accepted in the church 
falls on the Popes shoulders, especially since bishops from within the 
assembly have publicly stated that 
nowhere can same-sex unions be 
considered equal to heterosexual 
matrimony. This is a dark note to 
close the discussion on.
While many liberal Catholics 
have placed their hopes for a more 
accepting church in the current 
Pope, there is still much being said 
in opposition to the modernizations 
the church needs, and still refuses, 
to take a stance on. 
It is disheartening that even with 
mounting pressure from faithful 
members and leaders, the Catholic 
church is constantly qualifying and 
backtracking any de?nitive statements intended for the entirety of its 
followers, despite Pope Francis making his opinions plainly clear since 
his appointment. 
There is still hope that progress 
can be made in next years assembly 
with an even larger congregation in 
attendance, but few positives can be 
found in the wavering indecision of 
the largest and one of the most powerful religions in the world.
RUSSELL HOLBERT
Junior Staffwriter
U.S. needs to kick its gas addiction
JUSTIN MCGOWN
Emily Giedzinski/Staff Artist 
Ribboning promotes awareness 
Besides the ?yers asking you to 
join a research study or encouraging 
you to be a part of Greek life, have 
you noticed the number of ?yers trying to promote awareness? Or have 
you noticed the chalking all over 
campus aimed at supporting good 
causes? 
Think about how many tables 
you walk by in front of Doherty Hall 
where students call you out and ask, 
Do you want to help ?ght cancer? 
We live in a society that is constantly 
promoting awareness. We live in a 
culture of ribbons. Is there anything 
wrong with that?
The classic pink breast cancer 
ribbon is very common in todays 
culture. This is not surprising considering the fact that Susan G. Komen, the organization responsible 
for originating the symbol, has 105 
corporate partners. Many of these 
corporate partners use the pink ribbon as a way of bringing in more consumers. Adding the pink ribbon to a 
companys logo or slogan creates an 
attractive image for consumers who 
wish to support good causes. But is 
pink-ribbon-ing acceptable as a 
business?
I admit, when I see the pink ribbon, it makes me smile because it 
reminds me of the global efforts to 
fundraise for breast cancer research 
and awareness, a goal of the ribbon culture. The ribbon itself acts 
a reminder to people of the success 
that Susan G. Komen and similar 
organizations have achieved. When 
we see a sea of pink, making its way 
around the world, it is a giant step 
toward supporting those whose lives 
have been affected by breast cancer. 
The pink ribbon has become a universally-recognized symbol of hope 
and progress.
Pink-ribbon-ing is not tainting the message of Susan G. Komen 
and similar companies. Yes, it is an 
advantageous business strategy for 
companies, but it also lets us know 
that another helping hand is contributing to support breast cancer. This 
is simple collaboration.
If Susan G. Komen did not have 
many corporate partners, because it 
refused to allow pink-ribbon-ing, 
the organization would not have 
achieved the same level of success. 
Collaboration is a crucial means of 
advancing business interests, and it 
has proved to be one of the most effective methods of raising awareness.
Think about the number of 
Carnegie Mellon organizations that 
collaborate with each other to promote awareness of their goals. For 
example, a small service organization may decide to co-host an event 
with a larger, more prominent student organization. Even though they 
may not share the exact same goals, 
collaboration brings in more participants and helps all involved.
We live in a ribbon culture, where 
raising awareness is a signi?cant 
step toward greater goals. Whether 
fundraising to build homes for refugees, collecting food for the hungry, 
or even sharing a cultural event with 
the entire campus, if the goal is to 
raise awareness, collaboration is an 
incredibly useful tool.
KAYLA LEE
Junior Staffwriter
Maegha Singh/Staff Artist
It is disheartening 
that even with 
mounting pressure 
from faithful 
members and 
leaders, the 
Catholic church 
is constantly 
qualifying and 
backtracking 
any de?nitive 
statements.
Eileen Huang
Design
Sophomore
Having time to relax.
Callie German
Chemistry
Senior
I got to go to New York and see 
my mom.
Tanvi Joshi
Chemical Engineering
First-year
I watched a lot of Netflix.
Grant Wu
Computer Science
First-year
I dont remember what happened.... But I think we made 
chicken soup.
Danny Gratzer
Computer Science
First-year
I went to Philadelphia, and Ive 
never been there before.

---------------------------------------------------

First-Years
Anne Bernadette Alcasid
Philip Bailey
Elon Bauer
Nikhil Bikhchandani
Mustafa Bilgen
George Bocchetti
Tomer Borenstein
Kevin Brennan
Patrick Brown
Rachel Browne
Jaqueline Budz
William Bullard
Helen Bunker
Rand Burzese
Krystina Calfo
Joseph Carlos
Colin Chadderton
Nathan Cheek
Joshua Chen
Stephen Chen
Corinne Clunch
Benjamin Cosio
Brittany Couture
Madeline Cramer
Haley Dalzell
Mikio David
Brian Devincentis
Caitlyn Dipietro
Gryphon Drake
Christopher Ejiofor
Brian Ferri
Evan Fisch
Alexander Fry
Carineh Ghafaian
Julieta Gomez-Frittelli
Anshul Goyal
Tristan Greiner
Jacqueline Guevel
Elise Hall
Jinie Haytko
Christopher Holliday
Kelley Huang
Andrew Hudson
Vijay Jayaram
Jeremy Jiang
Akash Katipally
Beth Katz
David Keyser
Sangbum Kim
Young Won Kim
Sean Klein
Alexander Kozhemiakov
Bennet Kriete
Advaya Krishna
Sairam Krishnan
Wee Loong Kuan
Matthew Kusbit
Jay Kuvelker
Stacie Lackler
Xiang Lin
Chang Sheng Loh
Gina Lu
Elizabeth Mannarino
Scott Martin
Dale McConachie
Taryn Monteleone
Daniel Murby
Angela Nawrocki
Li Yen Ng
Kaitlyn Nowak
Michael Nye
Chin Yang Oh
Christa Orvik
Thomas Phillips
Rebecca Piston
Yijie Qiu
Roger Romero
Scott Ross
Sara Roy
Sara Saheb Kashaf
Utkarsh Sanghi
Matthew Sarett
Anand Sastry
Daniel Shafrir
Yixing Shi
Charlie Shulman
Rishabh Singh
Ramya Sivakumar
James Solomon
Mike Standish
Daniel Tabrizi
Brian Tang
Michael Tay
Andrew Thorsen
George Tian
Ryan Trottier
Ethan Ungchursri
Patra Virasathienpornkul
Han Weng
Meng Wang
Wei Wang
Rebecca Wells
Yang Wen
Andrew Willig
Robert Winkelman
Eric Wise
Catherine Wooten
Christopher Wysocki
Christina Yoon
Justin Young
Kathleen Yu
Jordan Zile
Seniors
Gavriel Adler
Youssef Ahres 
Terence An
Joshua Antonson
Nathan Appelson
Benjamin Avery
Natasha Barber
Spencer Barton
Dennis Begos
Anchal Bhargava
Zack Birnbaum
Edward Cao
Lauren Cembrook
Peter Chiappa
Thomas Chittenden
Albert Cho
Stephen Chong
Zachary Cohen
Seth Cordts
Adam Costanza
Tyler Cox
Jochen Cremer
Steven Cunningham
Daniel Cushman
Cesar Daguet
Patrice Daniel
Alisa De Bruyn Kops
Francois Desplanques
Louis Dufour
Alissa Elan
Laura Fleury
Lorenz Fleitmann
Michael Ford
Bailey Forrest
Alexandra Frankel
Blair Graham
Erica Green
John Greth
Catherine Groschner
Christian Hansen
Korey Haug
Miriam Hegglin
Shannon Horgan
Taylor Hughes
Roberto Jaime Garza
Sarah Johnson
Michael Kellman
Sara Kelly
Jeremie Kim
Sam Klein
Andrea Koenig
Julien Locher 
William Lush
Tal Man
Alvin Mao
Alvan Mbongo
Michael McDermott
Conor McGuire
Allen Miller
Chad Miller
Brandon Mittman
Anubhav Moondra
Andrew Mort
Claude Muller
Thomas Mullins
Eric Myers
Sarah Narburgh
Jeremy Nemes
Michael OConnor
Preston Ohta
Mariah Ondeck
Esteban Pacheco
Andy Peng
James Petka
Tze Liang Phua
Martin Piekarski
Matthew Powell-Palm
Palak Pujara
Dylan Quintana
William Records
Ian Rosado
Christian Schultz
Artur Schweidtmann
Rachel Shaffer
Richard Shanor
Caitlin Sharkey
Richard Spaulding
Evan Starkweather
Niteesh Sundaram
Elliott Tan
John Taormina
Jonathan Walsh
Jenna Withrow
Julie Woo
Michael Wu
Thomas Wucherpfennig
Darwin Yang
Yang You
Lily Zhang
Shuyi Zhang
Yakun Zhang
JuniorsSophomores
Joel Accorsi
Corrine Bacigal
Joetsaroop Bagga
Rohit Banerjee
Jonathan Berman
Sean Bittner
Brian Bittner
Craig Boman
Mauricio Cano
Christopher Cano
Taimoor Chatoor
Maggie Chen
Kenneth Chin
Harsha Chivukula
Foo Lai Choo
Zachary Dawson
Sascha Demetris
Kaan Dogrusoz
Tanner Douglas
Matthew Du
William Ehrett
Omer Elhiraika
Jonathan Farr
Yudi Feng
Rachel Freer
Chue Hsien Goh
Martin Grodzicki
Raghav Gupta
Yoon Hee Ha
Daniel Haddox
James Ham
Andrew Hearon
Christopher Herrera
Duc Hieu Hoang
Benjamin Hong
Nicole Huang
Jun Su Jang
Yichu Jin
Amelia Jones
Taigyu Joo
Marc-Daniel Julien
Julie Jung
Sean Kim
Do Hyung Kim
Justin Knobloch
Madelaine Ku
Joshua Kubiak
Eleanor Kwik
Darwin Kwok
Grant Langevin
Leann Law
John Lee
John Wen-Hao Lee
Yingqiu Lee
Kenneth Li
Zhi Ting Lim
Alexander Lucci
Jenna MacCarley
Danielle Maly
Zachary Mansley
Russell Markosky
Brigid McGovern
Anna Mirabella
Rudina Morina
Kyle Mueller
Ian Neft
Alexandra Newby
Angela Ng
Anny Ni
Kemuel Noriega
Jonathan Ong
Benjamin Paren
Eric Parigoris
Stephanie Patterson
Peter Pearson
Brandon Perez
Nishant Pol
Norman Ponte
Benson Qiu
Deepak Ravi
Clayton Ritcher
Bryn Scharenberg
Stanley Seow
Nitsan Shai
Michael Shimko
Nora Shoemaker
Hao-Jan Shue
Paige Sieffert
Benjamin Siegel
Adam Simpson
Kira Singhaus
Michael Solomon
David Sparks
Holly Stein
Kathryn Sullivan
Nicholas Tan
Hui Jun Tay
Sirena Wang
Sicong Wang
Jing Wang
Matthew Whitney
Edward Williamson
Evan Wineland
Liangyuan Xiang
Jingtao Xu
Patricia Xu
Julia Yang
Eli Zoghlin
Spring 2014Deans List
Brian Lai
Scott Landes
Tuan Anh Le
Evan Lee
Jun Yi Edmund Lee
Hyuck Ju Lee
Justin Lee
Dianna Li
Hongyu Li
Brian Li
Jianfei Liu
Sabrina Liu
Connor Maines
Robert Maratos
Nicole Matamala
Kiran Matharu
Alyssa Meyer
Luke Nealley
Celeste Neary
Zachary Newman
David Ott
Gordon Pace
Cortney Padua
Karthic Palaniappan
Patricia Pan
Paul Pan
Lukas Peraza
Alexander Peterson
Zachary Piscitelli
Carol Qu
Ashwin Raghavachari
Lauren Relyea
Johnathan Roppo
Ian Rosenberg
Riya Savla
Sohil Shah
Samantha Shoemaker
Miles Smith
Jeremy Sonpar
Naomi Sternstein
Rebecca Stokes
Terence Sun
Jordan Tick
Stephanie Tjan
Mervyn Toh
Nicole Tom
Julia Tucker
John Urbanek
Nikhita Vanwari
Shiv Wadwani
Allan Wang
Jamei Wang
Julia Wang
Jacob Weiss
June Williams
Alexander Woodward
Yi Wu
Patrick Yang
Yuxuan Yang
Sage Yort
Aziz Yousif
Hekai Yue
Yiyi Zhang
Andrew Zheng
Min Zhou
Tangrui Zuo
Justin Abel
Vishal Ahuja
Anna Bandecca
Jaeho Bang
Frank Bello IV
Zachary Blonder
Heather Bowman
Divya Bramharouthu
Nikita Budwal
Nicole Bustos
Andrew Chellman
Alex Chen
Andrew Chen
Chi Chen
Tianming Chen
Yutong Chen
Jess Chernak
Vikramadhitya Cherupally
Osvaldo Chimalpopoca
Raisa Chowdhury
Jane Chua
Xue An Chuang
Stephen Chung
Benjamin Crites
Robert Dioso
Hope Dohner
Jason Dynes
Melyssa Eigen
Andreas Fatschel
Joshua Fuhrman
Turga Ganapathy
Mitchell Gelpi
Shashank Goyal
Michael Graesser
Joseph Gu
Nickolas Halbedl
Matthew Harding
Anna Hoar
Maya Holay
Hyo Cheol Jeong
Pengju Jin
Evaline Ju
Kai Kang
Alexander Kearns
Brian Khoury
Paul Kim
Kiril Kirkov
Fatima Kobeissi
Steven Kool
Nicholas Kosarek

---------------------------------------------------

October 27, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/sports  A11
Volleyball
Over the weekend, the 
Carnegie Mellon volleyball 
team traveled to Juniata College for the Wid Guisler Invitational. It was a rough weekend 
as they dropped all three of 
their matches, including two 
against top 20 teams.
On Friday, the Tartans 
played Stevenson University, 
taking them all the way to the 
?fth set before falling 32. After dropping the ?rst two sets 
2325 and 2025, Carnegie 
Mellon rallied with straight 
wins 2522 and 2514 before 
?nally falling 1015. Senior 
right side hitter Ali Celentano 
set a season high with her 18 
kills while sophomore setter 
Emily Newton had 36 assists 
and sophomore defensive specialist Molly Higgins helped 
on defense with 28 digs.  
Saturday wasnt much better for the Tartans. Against 
No. 17 Eastern University, 
they managed to take the ?rst 
set 25-23 before dropping the 
next three 1625, 925 and 
1725 to lose 31. Celentano 
led the team blocks with nine 
while ?rst-year middle blocker 
Eliza Donohue had two blocks 
in the loss.  
Next was No. 10 Juniata, 
where the Tartans lost in 
straight sets 1725, 1825, 
2225. Donohue led the team 
in kills in the losing effort with 
10 with ?rst-year outside hitter Hannah Wooten leading 
the way on defense with eight 
digs. Higgins and Celentano 
each had seven digs.
Carnegie Mellon wraps up 
its regular season at Allegheny 
College on Saturday.
Football
The Carnegie Mellon football team traveled to Saint 
Vincent College on Saturday 
and came back home with a 
bad taste in their mouth after 
surrendering a large second 
half lead.
After a turnover on Saint 
Vincents opening drive, the 
Tartans quickly took a 60 
lead when junior quarterback 
Andrew Hearon rushed in for 
the touchdown on the next 
play. The next pair of drives 
was roughly the same another 
turnover followed by a Hearon 
touchdown pass to ?rst-year 
running back Sam Benger two 
plays later. The teams traded 
scoreless possessions for the 
rest of the quarter until Saint 
Vincent gained great ?eld 
position, given the Tartans 
inability to punt, and quickly 
brought the score back to 
137. The teams traded touchdowns midway through the 
second half, with Hearon completing another touchdown 
pass, this time to sophomore 
wide receiver Matt Forjan.
After a quick four-and-out 
for Saint Vincent, the Tartans 
extended their lead further 
with Hearons third touchdown pass, with junior wide 
receiver Chris Herrera on the 
receiving end.
This was the end of the 
good news for the Tartans, as 
they only managed a single 
?eld goal in the second half 
while blowing their 2813 half 
time lead.
Carnegie Mellon ?nishes 
up PAC play and hosts Thiel 
College next Saturday.
Compiled by
CARL GLAZER
SPORTS BRIEFS
CMU swimming and diving wins pair of weekend meets
CARL GLAZER
Staffwriter
The Carnegie Mellon mens 
and womens swimming and 
diving teams opened up their 
respective seasons on Saturday as they each faced off 
against Case Western University in a dual-style meet.
The womens team dominated, ultimately winning 
185115 on the back of 10 
event wins. The Tartans started out on the right note when 
they cruised to an easy victory in the 200-yard medley 
relay. Firstyear Anna Wong, 
?rst-year Kim Hochstedler, 
sophomore Gillian Crews, 
and ?rst-year Tiana Marrese 
put up a combined time of 
1:50.19 and touched the wall 
more than two seconds before 
the top Case Western team.
The women kept up the pressure with ?rst-year Miranda 
Ford and sophomore Kimberly 
Klausing placing 12 in the 
100-yard freestyle, touching 
the wall at times of 10:59.09 
and 11:10.49, respectively. 
Wong and junior Kira Singhaus matched the feat in the 
100-yard backstroke with 
times of 1:00.97 and 1:02.77. 
Hochstedler helped the 
Tartans build their lead as she 
took ?rst place in the 100-yard 
breaststroke with a time of 
1:08.17.
The team seemed to grow 
more dominant as the day 
progressed, with Marrese and 
sophomore Allison Kirkby 
taking 12 in the 100-yard 
free style with times of 55.55 
and 56.14, respectively, while 
?rst-year Emma Shi, ?rst-year 
Brinda Malhotra, and sophomore Paige Sieffert pulled off 
the 123 sweep in the 200-
yard backstroke with times of 
2:12.10, 2:13.46, and 2:14.24, 
respectively.
Ford and Klausing added 
the 5th 12 ?nish of the meet 
for the Tartans in the 500-yard 
freestyle, touching the wall 
at the 5:22.37 and 5:24.59 
marks, respectively. For swimming, ?rst-year Mary St. John 
added the ?nal win of the day 
in the 400-yard individual 
medley with a time of 4:44.74.
In the two diving competitions, the Tartans were even 
more dominant, sweeping 
123 in both the 1-meter and 
3-meter dives. Sophomore 
Machika Kaku, senior Winona 
Li, and senior Andie Azofeifa 
led the Tartans to victory in 
the 1-meter with ?nal scores 
of 263.65, 217.45, and 201.40 
and then switched the order in 
the 3-meter dive with Li taking 
?rst, Kaku second, and Azofeifa in third, this time with 
scores of 241.51, 237.70, and 
205.30.
On the mens side, Carnegie Mellon was even more 
successful, winning 187105 
behind 11 event wins. 
Matching the womens 
style of winning early and often, the mens team also started off the meet with a victory 
in the 200-yard medley relay 
with senior Josh Lucheon, 
?rst-year Matt Chu, sophomore Sivan Mehta, and ?rstyear Kevin Steinhouse combining for the winning time of 
1:36.41. Firstyear Josh Taekman kept the momentum up 
for the Tartans with his win in 
the 1,000-yard freestyle victory, clocking in at 9:56.08, 
more than nine seconds faster 
than second place.
Carnegie Mellon got its ?rst 
of many 12 ?nishes in the 
200 yard freestyle, with senior 
Andrew Yee and junior Steven 
Geier taking the top spots with 
times of 1:45.50 and 1:45.61, 
respectively. Mehta bridged 
the gap between top place 
sweeps with his win in the 
100-yard backstroke in 53.30 
seconds before the men swept 
the top three spots in the 100-
yard back stroke with Chu, senior Roy Sung and junior Peter 
Podniesinski ?nishing with 
times of 59.29, 1:00.99, and 
1:01.24, respectively.
Sophomore Brian Walsh 
was the next Tartan winner 
with his 1:55.03 ?nish in the 
200-yard butter?y before 
Mehta and Steinhouse took 
12 in the 100-yard freestyle 
with times of 47.97 and 48.57. 
Carnegie Mellon then followed up with another 123 
sweep with junior Jay Jin, 
Taekman, and ?rst-year Michael Dibacco taking the top 
spots in the 200-yard backstroke with times of 1:57.72, 
1:58.21, and 1:58.40, respectively.
Sung and Podniesinski 
combined for a 12 ?nish in 
the 200-yard breaststroke, ?nishing with times of 2:14.07 
and 2:15.92, while Yee took 
the top spot in the 500-yard 
freestyle, touching the wall at 
the 4:48.34 mark. Mehta added his fourth win of the day in 
the 100-yard butter?y as he 
edged out Case Western with 
a time of 51.50.
The only major deviation 
between the mens and womens days came on the diving 
board where juniors Yannos 
Michailidis and Noah Fatsi 
looked uncomfortable and 
well behind the top Case Western competitor.
Both squads will next 
swim on Saturday when they 
host Clarion University of 
Pennsylvania.
File photo by Jason Chen/Staff Photographer
Senior Andrew Yee comes up to gasp for a breath of fresh air as he swims freestyle.

---------------------------------------------------

October 27, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/sports  A12
ZEKE ROSENBERG
Sports Editor
DESIREE XU
Business Manager
As the fall season winds to 
a close, more than just varsity sports are ?nishing up 
their schedules.  Several club 
teams also competed in the 
fall.  Read on for a comprehensive recap of their highs, lows, 
and overall performance this 
season.
Womens Soccer
Womens Soccer ?nished 
with ?ve losses in league 
play, but won a non-league 
scrimmage. 
Sopmomore math major 
Sarah Tracy explained that the 
team outplayed their record, 
saying we have to play bigger 
D1 schools like University of 
Pittsburgh (UPitt), Penn State, 
and West Virginia University 
(WVU), so we know it is going to be tough to get results 
ahead of time. But  we kept 
up with them very competitively during the games, with 
large amounts of possession 
and some very close matches. 
Those matches included onegoal losses versus both UPitt 
and WVU in addition to the 
7-0 win over Frostburg State 
University. 
Tracy feels that this is 
progress for the team, saying 
Our main goal is just general 
growth in our skills for players 
on both the travel and practice 
teams. We have a wide variety 
of skill levels and our main focus is to have fun and to help 
each other improve. 
The team is currently seeking a coach, and they believe 
they will have one in the near 
future.
Tracy also made sure to 
give credit to junior mechanical engineering and biomedical engineering major Nicole 
Huang, who acted as co-president while the other acting 
president is studying abroad.
Rugby
Rugby had a very successful season last year, but with 
much of the team graduating, the focus this year was on 
rebuilding. 
The team had an impressive season recruiting and re?lling the roster. Junior chemistry and philosophy major 
Justin Lee said the primary 
objective of this fall season 
was focused on recruitment 
and rebuilding. The leadership group spent the summer 
planning for the recruitment 
campaign and put them in 
effect once the fall semester 
started ... By the end of the 
season we had 25 players on 
our roster.
The recruiting also translated into a promising season. 
The team improved, showing 
that there was potential for a 
very successful future. 
Lee continued We endured a tough start to the season, but as the semester went 
on, we became more and more 
competitive, and even gave 
the No. 2 seed in the division 
a run for their money in the 
last match of the season. 
We were really focused on 
developing our large group 
of younger guys and building 
towards a highly competitive 
team in the upcoming years.
A lot of time goes into developing players as well.  Experienced players are rare.
Rugby is still a developing 
sport at the high school level 
in the U.S., Lee said, so the 
majority of our newer players 
joined the team with little to 
no prior experience. However 
thanks to the patient guidance of the coaches and more 
experienced players, these 
guys have made signi?cant 
improvements every game 
and, by the end of the season, 
seven of our 15 starters were 
freshmen.
We thank our captains  
[senior math and computer 
science major] Bill Croughan 
and [senior materials science 
and engineering, and engineering and public policy major] Nick Marco   as well as 
our seniors and grad students 
who have ?nished their last 
competitive seasons with the 
team, Lee ?nished. 
The rugby teams tough 
season may not have been  the 
prettiest in the standings, but 
it provided an auspicious look 
into the future. 
Rowing
This season, outstanding 
events for rowing athletes 
have included the Head of the 
Charles in Boston, Mass., to 
which men and women both 
applied though only womens 
varsity was chosen to race. 
The women ?nished in the 
top 75 percent, giving them 
an even chance to return next 
year. In addition, the mens 
varsity team, along with the 
womens team, quali?ed 
for Head of the Ohio on the 
Ohio  River, one of the major 
regattas. 
A complementary Carnegie 
Mellon alumni event occurred, 
involving several Carnegie 
Mellon alumni members racing in an event. 
First-year undeclared Dietrich student Jenny Son, who 
was a novice member, was invited to row with the club varsity alumni members during a 
race. She, along with the rest 
of her boat claimed bronze, an 
amazing result for a ?rst year. 
Last weekend, Carnegie 
Mellon crew was one of the 
rowing club teams to participate in a competitive varsity 
team-dominated event, the 
Head of the Schuylkill Regatta. In that event, Carnegie 
Mellons varsity team ?nished 
in the top 50 percent.In addition to the varsity team that 
raced, novices ?rst-year undeclared Mellon College of Science student Carolyn Vanek 
and ?rst-year business administration major Ryan Francis 
rowed in the same boat as the 
club varsity team. It appears 
to be a season of progress so 
far for Carnegie Mellons club 
rowing team. 
Next week, the club varsity 
men and womens team will 
be competing in Virginia at 
the Head of the Occoquan Regatta, which will be their last 
on water race of the season 
before training indoors until 
March.
Mens Soccer
The mens soccer team felt 
they did not live up to their 
potential. Senior business 
administration major Gerard Kramer explained, The 
season has been generally a 
disappointing one. We have 
gotten very unlucky with own 
goals in particular. Almost our 
entire back-line has scored 
an own goal at some point 
throughout the season.
This run of bad luck, in addition to letting late leads slip, 
led to many draws and very 
few victories. 
Until our last game of the 
season, Kramer went on, we 
had not trailed any team in 
league play. We drew most of 
our games after going up early 
and then allowing a late equalizer. All in all, it was a pretty 
disappointing season ?lled 
with draws, own goals, and 
injuries.
The team has reason to 
keep their heads up going forward, though. 
The team hired Andrew 
Jreissaty, the ?rst coach in the 
history of Carnegie Mellon 
club soccer. 
He has coaching experience from England, and we are 
very hopeful that his in?uence 
can help us meet our goals in 
the future, Kramer said.
Our goals from last year 
were to make it to the regional 
tournament and compete with 
the larger teams in our division, said Kramer. 
They missed the regional 
tournament but did give the 
bigger teams a run for their 
money. 
They clawed draws from 
UPitt and WVU and lost narrowly to Penn State 10.
Kramer made sure to mention graduate mechanical 
engineering student Kyle Justus and sophomore computer 
science and math major Javier Wardcantori to give them 
credit for outstanding seasons.
 [Justus] was an outstanding target-man.... He scored 
some goals and put in a ton 
of great performances for us. 
[Wardcantori] had a great 
season at center back. He was 
very solid in the air and was 
the heart of the defense this 
year, said Kramer.
JASON LIAO
Junior Staffwriter
Competitive video gaming, 
or eSports, is now taking off in 
places like the United States, 
attracting thousands of people 
to major events. But in South 
Korea, more than anywhere 
else, it has already oozed into 
mainstream culture. Gaming 
competitions are televised as 
frequently as traditional sporting competitions.
Such excitement was on 
display in Seoul on Oct. 19. A 
sold out crowd of more than 
40,000 fans ?lled the Seoul 
World Cup Stadium to watch 
the ?nale of the world championship for League of Legends, the most popular video 
game in the world, with 67 
million monthly players. The 
match was also aired on the 
publisher of League of Legends (Riots) website, Twitch, 
and even ESPN 3, the channels live streaming service. 
This contest involved barely 
any muscular exertion beyond 
the furious clicking of ?ngers 
on a computer mouse and 
keyboard, but with corporate 
sponsors and a million-dollar 
prize to the winner, the championship series had the dramatic feel of any traditional 
sports title game.
The match featured a Korean team, Samsung White, 
which was matched up against 
a Chinese team, Star Horn 
Royal Club. Having lost only 
two games during the entire 
tournament, which consisted 
of a group stage followed by 
a bracket, the Korean team 
Samsung White was the clear 
favorite of the match. Their 
opponents, the Chinese team 
Star Horn Royal Club, included two Korean players alongside three Chinese players. 
Much like professional sports 
organizations, teams in one 
regional gaming league are 
able to pick up players from 
other regions. Samsung White 
went on to win the championship 31 and $1 million in 
prize money.
Unfortunately for Star 
Horn Royal Club, their defeat 
marked the second time in a 
row that they ?nished second 
place in the 2014 World Final.
The tournament as a whole 
saw better performances from 
North American teams than in 
previous years, though in the 
end it was still the top Asian 
teams who made it all the way 
to the ?nals. South Korea, 
which is widely considered 
the haven of eSports, is also 
home to the best League of 
Legends players in the world. 
Many often wonder why it is 
the case that Asian teams are 
so dominant in many eSports 
scenes, and most would say 
that its mainly due to a strictly 
regimented practice culture. 
Teams from elsewhere in the 
world are beginning to get 
more serious about practice, 
scrimmages, and competitive 
play in order to narrow the gap 
in international tournaments.
The World Championships 
record breaking attendance 
and viewership numbers 
makes it clear that League 
of Legends popularity is not 
waning. 
With the distinction of becoming the most popular eSport in the world comes the 
responsibility to put on a show 
worthy of the largest gaming event of the year. Thankfully, the crew at Riot Games 
did not disappoint. From the 
enormous World Cup Stadium 
venue to a live performance 
from Imagine Dragons, who 
are League of Legends players 
themselves, the 2014 World Final was a spectacular success.
Carnegie Mellon club sports approach end of fall seasons
Photo by Danae Paparis courtesy of Justin Lee
 The Rugby football club has a promising season ahead.
Turnout at League ?nal proves eSports are here to stay
SPORTS COMMENTARY
Eunice Oh/Asst. Art Editor
Top: courtesy of Julia Embody Bottom: courtesy of Gerard Kramer
 Top: The Womens varsity crew club rows in the Charles.  Bottom: Mens club soccer lines up for a team photo.

---------------------------------------------------

The Beggars Opera
The School of Music transports Purnell 
to 18th century England  B6
Hipster eateries
Shadysides Cafe Zinho  B3New Works series
The School of Drama stages three new 
student-written shows  B8
10.27.14 Volume 108, Issue 9
Jodi Picoult
The author describes her research  B4

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
Need a laugh after a week back? Check out 
comics.
11
Movies in McConomy
AB Films presents scary movies for Halloween.7
The Tartan. Box 119. UC Suite 103. Carnegie Mellon University. 5000 Forbes Ave. Pittsburgh, PA 15213. www.thetartan.org.  2014 The Tartan
PUBLISHER Rachel Cohen EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Braden Kelner
PILLBOX EDITOR Joey Peiser COMICS EDITOR Maryyann Landlord 
ART EDITOR Michelle Wan PHOTO EDITOR Jonathan Leung
COPY MANAGER James Wu COVER Kevin Zheng
8
3106
regulars...
Advice
Everything you need to know about how to 
watch movies for free.
3
...diversions
...this week only
Cafe Zinho
This bohemian restaurant may be quirky and 
small, but their food is delicious.
3
Jodi Picoult
The well-known author speaks about the 
power of experience in Pittsburgh this week.
4
Primus
The already weird band gets weirder with their 
Wonka remixes.
5
Beggars Opera
The School of Musics production is staged 
well, but hard to follow.
6
Fury
The World War II movie minimizes glamor as 
much as it can while starring Brad Pitt.
7
New Works Series
Three original works written by students 
premiered this week.
8
Fall fashion
As the weather changes, so should your 
wardrobe.
10
Puzzles
Gear up for the next half of the semester with 
some puzzles.
13
Horoscopes
The stars have predictions for your next 
vacation.
14Calendar
Things to do when youre not busy studying or 
creating a Halloween costume.
15

---------------------------------------------------

dining
pillbox 10.27.143
Cafe Zinho is hip, delicious
Shadysides best kept secret: a bohemian-themed bistro
On Saturday, in my eternal quest to eat at every 
restaurant worth eating at in Pittsburgh, I ventured 
off the beaten path to Cafe Zinho, a small, quirky 
Shadyside restaurant.
On a small side street off of Ellsworth Avenue, 
Cafe Zinho is about as hipster as Pittsburgh 
Mediterranean cafs come: it doesnt take credit 
cards, its BYOB, and its totally underrated.
Walking into the cafe feels like walking into the place 
where bohemianism was born: the chandeliers are 
colorful splashes of glass, the cash register looks like 
it dates back to the days of Bonnie and Clyde, and 
the walls are decked out with the weirdest, coolest, 
most grandma-became-a-hipster decorations Ive 
ever seen. The atmosphere, quiet before 6:30 p.m., 
is intimate and energetic, which pairs perfectly with 
the food. However, I was disappointed to be seated 
not only right inside the door but also right beside 
the counter at which the hosts and waiters seemed 
to gather, making it feel like our dinner was being 
monitored by the restaurant staff.
In any other case, this would have prevented me 
from discussing my food aloud, but the food at Cafe 
Zinho was so satisfyingly delicious that there was 
nothing I had to worry about saying too loudly.
Like many others, the restaurant drops bread on the 
table. Instead of the tired French loaf, its a warm, 
crisp on the outside, soft on the inside cornbread 
 a perfectly quirky start to your meal. I was afraid 
that the Mediterranean platter appetizer would be 
clich and played out: some pita, hummus, olives, 
tomatoes, red peppers, and cheese do not make a 
five-star plate. 
However, my worries were unnecessary. Everything 
was seasoned so expertly that I felt that this dish 
was the best of its kind and a generous serving to 
boot.
For my dinner, I selected the only vegetarian option 
on the menu: the butternut squash ravioli with 
pumpkin coulis. (I must add that it was both a letdown and a surprise that this was my only option, 
especially at such a seemingly hip restaurant where 
I would expect many vegetarians to dine.) When 
our waitress set my bowl down in front of me, I was 
sad to see such a small serving size. However, after 
several of these raviolis, I understood the thought 
behind the modest servings. The ravioli were 
incredibly filling, and by far the most autumnally 
appropriate dish Ive had this fall. The butternut 
squash filling was light and sweet, with a hint of 
mint to finish them. They were perfectly paired with 
the pumpkin coulis, which was lightly spiced with 
cumin, ginger, garlic, and a little something else to 
make a pleasing marriage of sweet and spicy. The 
roasted vegetables that came with the dish seemed 
random but actually proved a nice addition. It 
gave the chance to taste the sauce on its own with 
something less flavorful.
The dessert was a beautiful, again modestly-sized, 
Portugese cornbread pudding. I was afraid that the 
dish would be too savory and overload the meal, 
but I was wrong again. In fact, the beautifully moist 
pudding was very sweet, and I was thankful that the 
sauce that came with it was creamy enough to mute 
the sugar a bit.
Everything was perfectly presented, and it is easy 
to see that the staff here truly cares about the food 
that they are serving, and the experience that the 
diners have. My biggest complaint was that for such 
modest servings, the prices were very high. The 
quality of the food was absolutely amazing, but even 
small portions of amazing shouldnt cost $25 to $30. 
I wish the prices were more reasonable so I could 
justify eating that delicious ravioli again.
Its easy to walk past Cafe Zinho, tucked away in a 
small house on Spahr Street, but this is one exgarage that you want to make sure to try at least 
once.
Laura Scherb | Operations Manager
Laura Scherb | Operations Manager
Advice for awkward people
Dear Evan,
I only ever eat at 
McDonalds during 
its Monopoly-themed 
promotion season. I 
know, its pretty shameful, 
but Im not a hardcore 
McDonalds Monopoly 
player: I dont collect the 
colored stamps (streets 
like Park Place, Utilities, 
Railroads, etc.), which, 
while theyre pretty 
difficult to get, yield 
awesome prizes (gas from 
Shell for a year!). I harden 
my stomach and eat there 
for the immediate prizes 
 but this year, I won a 
one-month subscription 
for Hulu Plus, and I have 
no idea what to do with it. 
I can watch all the shows 
I want for free somewhere 
else, so why should I take 
the time to put in some 
code to get free TV for 
a month, then have to 
endure endless emails 
from Hulu pleading to 
have me back?
Grumpily,
Pretty Rattled by Operose 
Jape, was Expecting 
Chocolate Truffles or Free 
Rectal Exams, Even TJs 
Vouchers
Dear PROJECT FREE TV,
You can just unsubscribe 
from the emails. There 
should be a link at the 
bottom of  yes, there it is. 
Good job. Gold star.
Im sure there are many 
rational ethical, moral, and 
economic reasons to pay 
for your television  should 
we even call it television 
anymore?  but Im pretty 
sure most people under 
25 are perfectly fine with 
enjoying whatever shows 
they want, whenever they 
want, free of charge. Setting 
up a Netflix (or Amazon 
Prime, or Hulu Plus, or 
whatever) account sounds 
like a pretty good 25th 
birthday present to yourself.
Im looking at the 
McDonalds Monopoly prizes 
webpage here, and it looks 
like soon-to-be-obsolete 
companies are trying to 
achieve a semblance of 
relevance with this contest. 
Remember Shutterfly? 
Maybe not? You couldve 
gotten a free mug, magnet, 
or 8x8 photo book from 
them (with whose photos 
inside?). And I thought 
Redbox went out of 
business!
Its unsurprising youre 
nonplussed with the prizes, 
considering that uppermiddle-class Carnegie 
Mellon students  assuming 
you are one, which is a safe 
assumption  lie outside 
of the McDonalds prime 
demographic (think older 
and below the United States 
proverbial belt). But hey, at 
least this gets rid of your 
last reason to ever step foot 
inside a McDonalds again.
Still upset Pittsburgh 
doesnt have Panda 
Express,
Evan Kahn
Need advice? Send queries 
to advice@thetartan.org.
About where to watch your movies for free
Cafe Zinho is located at 238 Spahr Street in 
Shadyside. It is cash only and BYOB.

---------------------------------------------------

4lecture
pillbox 10.27.14
Were going to play a little game tonight. Were going 
to pretend this is Monday night football, and Im the 
quarterback, Jodi Picoult, author of many well-known 
books including My Sisters Keeper, said as she took the 
stage to applause at the Carnegie Music Hall as part of 
the Literary Eveningss Monday Night Lecture series.
Picoult, addressing a sold out auditorium on the heels of 
the release of her new book Leaving Time, spoke to the 
audience about the research she does for her works of 
?ction. Doesnt ?ction mean that a story is made up?
While Picoult writes stories that come from the inner 
machinations of her brain, she often bases them 
around real-world things that need to be experienced 
to be properly explained to readers. And boy, were her 
experiences eye-opening. Although Ive never read a 
book by Picoult, she has convinced me to try one out this 
winter break.
Picoult ?rst related the research she performed for her 
book Second Glance, published in 2003. In the book, the 
narrator, Ross Wakeman, comes to Comtosook, Vt. when 
Abenaki Indian tribe land is being eyed for a shopping 
mall. If the tribe proves it was a burial ground, the mall 
cannot be built. Ross, a ghost hunter, comes to the town 
as its people are being haunted and ?nds out that the 
ghost is someone he is falling head over heels for.
To write this book, Picoult not only had to research the 
Abenaki tribe, but also the Vermont eugenics program, 
a program in which the Abenaki were forced to disband 
or go underground as the government sterilized them so 
that they could not reproduce.
Additionally, Picoult spent some time with real ghost 
hunters, the Atlantic Paranormal Society in Rhode Island. 
If some of you have seen the TV show on the Syfy 
channel, Ghost Hunters, it was those guys. I knew them 
before they were famous. They were just ... plumbers 
doing this on the side, Picoult said.
So at the time I was going ghost hunting, my oldest son 
was about eight/nine years old, and he was terri?ed of 
ghosts, Picoult continued. So here I am going, Honey, 
theres no such thing as a ghost, and then packing my 
bag to go ghost hunting.
Picoult next related the research she performed for The 
Storyteller, a book about a woman who is con?ded in by 
a former Nazi commander living in America who wants 
her to help him die.
To understand what she was writing about, Picoult 
talked to numerous Holocaust survivors, including 
survivors of concentration camps, death marches, and 
the ghettos. In one story Picoult told, a boy named Bernie 
pried a mezuzah from his doorway as he was taken from 
his home.
Last but not least, Picoult explained the research that 
went into her latest book, Leaving Time.
The book touches upon elephants expression of grief, 
which the protagonists mother studied before she 
disappeared. Ultimately, this is a book about how the 
people who leave us never really do, Picoult said. And I 
began to dive into the world of elephants, knowing I was 
going to use it as a metaphor, so tonight what Im going 
to be telling you about is everything you wanted to know 
about elephants and more.
Picoult explained that she worked with a neurobiologist 
to understand the human brain and then learned how 
it was similar to and different from elephant brains. She 
then went to The Elephant Sanctuary in Tennessee, as 
well as Botswana, to work with researchers who track 
elephant migration patterns. Picoult said that elephants 
are recognizable by voice, tusks, hair, and ears. No two 
elephants have the same ears. She also explained that 
elephants have complex brains capable of remembering, 
feeling pain and loss, and learning. Elephants also wont 
leave each other behind, according to Picoult. Picoult 
culminated her talk about elephants by relating the 
importance of ending poaching.
Picoult doesnt just live in the world; she experiences 
it. From her talk, it is apparent that shes not afraid 
to ask someone for help in order to understand what 
they are an expert on. What better way is there to learn 
than to ask someone who is itching to share what 
they know? Picoult seems to have mastered the art of 
delving wholeheartedly into another persons story to 
understand where they come from or why what they do 
is so important to them. And what better outlet to relate 
what she learns from her ability to immerse herself than 
in a book?
But why does Picoult write ?ction about such 
controversial issues when she could write non?ction to 
give her readers the cold, hard facts about a topic she 
has researched? Certainly, non?ction wouldnt mesh the 
facts with ?ction by its very nature. Picoult explained as 
she ?nished her lecture:
Theres something that ?ction can do that non?ction 
cannot, Picoult said. A lot people will not address a 
controversial subject in non?ction, but they pick up a 
novel, and they think theyre being entertained, and 
almost by accident, by the time they close that last 
page, they realize they are being forced to re-evaluate 
whatever opinions they have when they started the 
book.... Where I believe that non?ction has the obligation 
to chronicle the past and what has happened, ?ction has 
the opportunity to change minds, change the future, and 
change the course of what will happen.
Here, here.
Braden Kelner | Editor-in-Chief
Photo illustration by Braden Kelner | Editor-in-Chief
Jodi Picoult, author of My Sisters Keeper, delivered a 
lecture regarding her research methods for her fiction 
works before a sold-out crowd at Carnegie Music Hall 
last Monday.
Jodi Picoult discusses the facts of ?ction
The celebrated author described the research behind her work in a lecture last Monday

---------------------------------------------------

music
pillbox 10.27.145
Primus turns Willy Wonka into Freddy Kreuger 
Groups cover album of the classic family soundtrack gives each song a new and creepy take
Theres an old saying that when you assume, you make 
a donkey out of you and me. However, there is one 
assumption that is probably very safe to make, and that 
is that every child, and thus every adult, loves the movie 
Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory. While there are 
a number of reasons the ?lm has a special place in all 
of our hearts  from the colorful candy room, to Gene 
Wilders iconic performance  the music is certainly 
a key ingredient. Who hasnt skipped across the Cut 
after a successful exam, gleefully humming Ive got 
a golden ticket! Ive got a golden twinkle in my eye!? 
The songs are all happy and bright, and are inexorably 
linked to a period of innocence and comfort in our lives. 
Theyre so beloved, in fact, that its hard to imagine any 
of those tunes eliciting an emotion other than happiness 
in a listener. Well, guess what? Thanks to American 
experimental rock group Primus, some of them may now 
give you nightmares.
Last Tuesday, Primus  known for being extremely 
weird  made one of the weirdest moves of their 
incredibly weird career, and released an album that 
covered the entire soundtrack to the 1971 family classic. 
The project, which is an extension of a specialty New 
Years Eve concert the group performed last year, 
reimagines the songs in Primuss unique style, with 
varying degrees of success. Basically, they make every 
song sound as creepy as the part in the movie where 
theyre all in the boat in the dark tunnel, which is an 
incredibly intriguing, but repulsive concept.
Primus, for lack of a better description, sounds 
like a rickshaw gypsy band. Their sound is almost 
indescribable. Its so unique, and the fact that they 
have taken on such a project is so undoubtedly them. 
Only Primus would think to cover the Willy Wonka 
soundtrack, and theyre probably the only artists weird 
enough to conceivably pull it off. The album takes 
multiple listens to sink in, because, at ?rst, its so jarring. 
Creative force Les Claypool, who plays the upright bass 
and sings vocals in the band and is also well known for 
penning the South Park theme song, takes each song 
and makes them sound as if theyre being howled from a 
dark cavern.
Candy Man takes on a sinister snarl, placing the jolly tune 
in more of a Goosebumps vibe than the family-friendly 
classic initially conjures. The pounding drums in the chorus 
will match your heartbeat, and when the singer lets He 
makes the world taste pretty dang good slip through his 
lips, your skin will undoubtedly crawl. Braying guitars laid 
over thumping drums and other discordant instruments 
heighten the feeling of dread that permeates the song.
Golden Ticket starts off quiet and menacing, before 
exploding into a triumphant and pounding chorus. 
Les dances around on the bassline as Larry makes 
interesting sounds with his guitar. The whole group 
sounds like theyre having a lot of fun on this one. This 
song in particular sounds as if it may have been the 
genesis for the entire project; Primuss unique sound 
?ts so well with the songs sing-song rhythm and overall 
gleeful and child-like atmosphere.
The groups sound dynamic shines no brighter than 
on the Oompa Loompa tracks. These are songs 
that perfectly ?t Primus; sound, attitude, and all. The 
bouncing bass lines of the dancing Oompa Loompas 
give the group a great platform from which to 
experiment.
The albums absolute highlight and climax comes in 
Veruca Salts ode to greed, I Want It Now. The songs 
register works well for the vocals, and it is probably the 
closest the group comes to a complete and successful 
rework of the song.
The group never expands beyond the bass, guitar, 
drums, marimba, and cello. Its rather amazing the 
diversity of sounds they are able to produce and how 
rich the album sounds given the limited resources. 
These are clearly incredibly talented musicians who 
have found their niche and are digging as deep as 
possible into it.
The songs both repel and attract at the same time. They 
dont necessarily sound good, but theres something 
about them  some charm  that hooks you in and 
doesnt let you go. Perhaps its because these are songs 
youve grown up with, known and loved your entire 
life, and to hear them performed in such a bizarre and 
interesting way is so shocking that you simply cant 
get enough. Its so hard to imagine Pure Imagination 
sounding like this, that when you do hear it, youre 
instantly intrigued.
If Semi-Wondrous Boat Ride scared you as a kid, give 
this version a listen. I dare you.
Joey Peiser | Pillbox Editor
Courtesy of Stefan Schmitz via Flickr
Primus latest project remakes the songs from Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory, a childhood favorite, into 
the stuff of nightmares.

---------------------------------------------------

6opera
pillbox 10.27.14
The ?rst striking thing about the School of Musics 
production of Benjamin Brittens adaptation of John 
Gays The Beggars Opera was that it looked put together 
by beggars  intentionally, of course. The raggedlooking curtains pulled back to reveal a patchwork 
backdrop and a cast dressed in a mixture of modern 
and 18th-century clothing in this production, which ran 
Wednesday through Saturday.
The opera itself focuses on an assortment of motley 
characters from amongst the seediest members of 
English society in the 1700s. Polly Peachum is the 
daughter of Mr. Peachum, a man who works with thieves 
to sell their goods, and Mrs. Peachum, a prostitute. 
Pollys parents are morti?ed that their daughter, whom 
they have raised all her life to cheat men out of their 
money, would of all things marry highwayman Captain 
Macheath  and for love, not even for money! Seeing 
that the match would otherwise be unpro?table, they 
encourage Polly to turn her husband in for money and tell 
her that if she will not, they will.
This story is not exactly one about star-crossed lovers. 
Although Macheath pledges his devotion to Polly when 
in her presence, the moment she is out of earshot, he 
cavorts with every prostitute in town. We later ?nd that 
he is also married to jailer Lockits daughter Lucy, who 
is pregnant with his child. And Lucy is none too happy 
about being forsaken for Polly.
Unfortunately, members of the audience unfamiliar with 
the story might not have known this if it were not for 
the synopsis in the program; the weakest point of the 
production was that it was extremely confusing to follow. 
As a result of the 18th-century dialogue and the British 
accents that the performers put on, it was dif?cult to 
understand what anyone was saying. This confusion 
became even worse during the singing parts; operatic 
singing is already somewhat hard to make out, and 
with the addition of the two previously listed factors, 
the performers might as well have been singing in a 
completely different language, although the opera is in 
English. Captions, especially during these singing parts, 
would have been highly appreciated.
The Friday night production starred masters student in 
vocal performance Erin Schmura as Polly, senior vocal 
performance major Zachary Mendez as Macheath, senior 
vocal performance major Raphael McCorey as Peachum, 
masters student in vocal performance Courtney Elvira 
as Mrs. Peachum, junior vocal performance major 
Garret Eucker as Lockit, and senior vocal performance 
major Adrienne Lotto as Lucy. There were a number of 
hilarious performances: Elvira was comically over the top 
as Mrs. Peachum, a stereotypical overbearing mother 
 la Mrs. Bennet if the latter were a prostitute. She 
played well off McCorey, who was more of the straight 
man. Another scene which drew ?ts of laughter from 
the audience involved Mrs. Trapes, a minor character 
played by senior vocal performance major Ethan Crystal. 
To the audience, Mrs. Trapes was obviously a man in 
drag but this fact seemed to be unnoticed by Lockit and 
Peachum, who kissed and ?irted with her.
Though it may have been dif?cult to understand, the 
singing itself was amazing. Just listening to them brie?y, 
it is evident that the songs are dif?cult pieces to sing, 
though the performers pulled them off wonderfully. The 
music is gorgeous: Derived from English folk music, the 
pieces were clear and lively like a country spring. The 
?ute burst in trills and thrills while the violin sang, with 
varied percussion throughout.
All In a Misty Morning, Captain Macheaths dance 
song, and Fill Every Glass, a drinking song sung by the 
thieves, are both lively folksy pieces. Would You Have 
a Young Virgin?, in which Macheath sings about his 
womanizing, is ironically set to a sweet violin piece. In 
Thus When a Good Housewife Sees a Rat, in which 
Lucy sings to Macheath about his philandering, we see 
Lotto having much fun rolling her Rs. Pollys aria in Act 
II, Scene 13 is accompanied by the gentle sounds of a 
harp and chorus. It is a very sweet song, and Schmura 
was an excellent singer who pulled off Pollys purity and 
dedication very convincingly.
When you could understand what was being said, the 
witty banter and dialogue were the highlight of the 
show. Gays work is a satire of English society at the 
time. It explores class and gender relations in 18thcentury England, which was a much more bawdy time 
than is often depicted in the popular imagination. There 
are no ladies curtsying, gentlemen tipping hats at one 
another, or people sipping tea while conversing with 
words like shall and indubitably. Instead, we ?nd 
a society where parents address their daughters as 
sluts in casual conversation, drinking and gambling are 
rampant, and all the men are thieves and all the women 
are prostitutes.
Some of the funniest scenes are when Polly and her 
parents discuss her marriage. Do you think your mother 
and I should have livd comfortably so long together, if 
ever we had been married? Peachum exclaims. What 
would many a wife give for such an opportunity! Pollys 
mother tells her when she proposes that Polly should kill 
her own husband. When Polly expresses sadness at the 
thought of parting with her husband when he is dead, 
her father proclaims, Parting with him! Why, this is the 
whole scheme and intention of all marriage articles!
Overall, the production offered a unique aesthetic and 
wonderful music. Hopefully, you made sure to read the 
Sparknotes beforehand!
Xiyu Wang | Assistant Forum Editor
Beggars Opera offers wonderful music
School of Music opera transports viewers to the bawdier side of 18th century England
Kevin Zheng | Staff Photographer
The Beggars Opera tells the story of Polly (masters in 
vocal performance student Erin Schmura) and her love 
affair with the dastardly Macheath.

---------------------------------------------------

movies
pillbox 10.27.147
In April 1945, the last month of World War II in the 
European Theatre, the Nazis make a last-ditch effort 
to uphold their resistance against the Allied troops 
marching into Germany. As a ?ctional account, Fury 
is a gritty and visceral depiction of the horrors of war 
that minimizes the glamour and overt chauvinism that 
most war movies tend to amplify. At least, it minimizes 
at much as it can  come on, Brad Pitt stars as the 
?lms heroic Sergeant Don Wardaddy Collier. Star 
power aside, Fury fearlessly displays the damage of the 
battle?eld as being more tragic than it is heroic. Writer 
and director David Ayer (Training Day, End of Watch) 
is a master of the craft of ?lmmaking. He possesses 
and builds upon the power of making the audience feel 
the essence of a story. In this case, the essence lies in 
the internal devastation that the soldiers feel in every 
moment of the war, although they must quash their 
emotions in order to continue doing their job.
The ?lm has a bevy of strong actors who play distinct 
characters inevitably torn down to shreds of who they 
once were. Wardaddy is the head of his regiment, and 
serves as the commander of his army tank, Fury. Hes 
strong-headed and tough, always determined to move 
onto the next mission. He commandeers a ?ve-man crew 
thats been with him since their North Africa Campaign: 
Boyd Bible Swan (Shia LaBeouf), a gunner who ?nds 
peace in Christianity; Trini Gordo Garcia (Michael 
Pea) a likable tank driver with a somewhat cheerful 
personality; and Grady Coon-Ass Travis (Jon Bernthal), 
a loader with a primal anger constantly lurking and ready 
to snap.
The crew has a synergistic bond that operates to a 
furiously mechanical rhythm. However, the crew is 
thrown off beat when they lose their second tank driver, 
and newcomer Norman Ellison (Logan Lerman) is thrown 
into the regiment to take his place. Norman is the babyfaced, doe-eyed reluctant soldier who was originally a 
clerk trained to type 60 words a minute, not operate a 30-
ton army tank. His empathy and reluctance to kill Nazis 
seriously irritate Wardaddy and the rest of the group, 
as they know that this is a serious impediment to their 
mission. They heckle him and mentally toss him into the 
trenches in order to prepare Norman for the ugly horror 
to come.
Theres a stubborn mentality that develops amongst 
these soldiers that can only come from the devastation 
of war. The soldiers are gritty: covered in dirt with 
desperate fatigue dragging onto their faces. Its the mask 
they bear to face the war and, therefore, the only mask 
they feel they can handle in their lives anymore. Its their 
grasp of manliness. Theres a scene in which Wardaddy 
and Norman intrude upon the home of two German 
women, and Wardaddy ?nally gets to have a clean 
shave. He dons off his shirt for a seemingly objectifying 
purpose, as the camera seems to take its time staying 
on his body, in all of Brad Pitts age-defying muscly glory. 
However, in the turn of a frame, the scars of war are 
revealed in the form of burn scars covering his back.
The war is forever embedded in their lives, super?cially 
hidden under thinly sheathed surfaces. But it isnt a 
truth that the rest of the soldiers have fully processed 
yet. Again, they identify with the trauma of war with 
more apparent evidence, like the mask of war that they 
don on their faces. When Wardaddy puts on a crisply 
clean shirt and now has a freshly washed face, he can 
be human again. He isnt Wardaddy in this moment; 
hes back to Don Collier. He eats lunch peacefully with 
his German hosts and with Norman  his respite from 
the everyday horror that clings to him. His crew bursts 
in on their lunch, insulted that Wardaddy didnt invite 
them, but probably more so that his ?rst real re-entrance 
into civility is with the enemy. They taunt him and 
the German women mercilessly and, for the ?rst time, 
Wardaddy has no control over his soldiers because hes 
in the bubble of civility and theyre still trapped in the 
realm of war. The scene goes to show that a civilian who 
hasnt shared their journey can never fully understand 
the complexity of pain and horror from the battle?eld.
Its been nearly 70 years since World War II has ended 
and our memories of it have expanded into many 
branches of legacy. Fury climbs onto the branch 
thats serves as the most honest and, hence, the most 
brutal. It isnt so much a war ?lm as it is a horror ?lm, 
where people are so far displaced from their usual 
lives and are forced to deal with the hopelessness of 
such displacement. But through the desolation, the 
?lm invokes honor and humanity that cant be found 
anywhere else.
Andie Park | Staffwriter
Fury takes the glitz out of the blitzkrieg
Gritty World War II ?lm starring Brad Pitt explores the devastation wrought by combat
Meredith Newman | Staffwriter
Halloween: the only time of the year I ?nd watching horror movies acceptable. If you 
watch them all year round, I question your taste in movies. Sorry. But, not really. 
Anyway, come down to McConomy Auditorium and watch Deliver Us From Evil 
instead of going trolling for candy  youre in college now. The movie features Eric 
Bana as rough-and-tumble NYPD sergeant Ralph Sarchie, and Joel McHale as his 
high-octane partner, Butler. Together they are unstoppable and completely clich. As 
if that werent enough, enter hard-drinking and perpetually smoking Catholic priest 
Joe Mendoza. This is just the inner dialogue that I imagine happened. Guy #1: I want 
to make a horror movie with two cops. Guy #2: Okay, but we have a lot of those. 
Throw in a Catholic Priest and we have a deal. Guy #1: Deal. They hug and become 
best friends forever. Without giving away any plot  but come on, you probably 
already know what happens  this movie includes religion, exorcisms, demons, posttraumatic stress disorder, and bad New York accents. It also includes an example of 
Hollywood ageism at its ?nest: Olivia Munn plays Sarchies wife Jen (thats a 12-year 
age difference).
Deliver Us From Evil
Friday, Oct. 31
7, 9:30, 12
The Wolverine
Saturday, Nov. 1  8, 11
Sunday, Nov. 2  8
Some may say Australia is most known for kangaroos, koalas, and Vegemite, 
but I say its Hugh Jackman. Seriously, they should put him on the ?ag. This is 
Jackmans sixth appearance as Wolverine/Logan, ?rst arriving on the big screen 
in 2000s X-Men  and luckily, this movie makes up for the atrocity that was 
X-Men Origins: Wolverine. It starts out with Logan traveling to Japan to meet with 
the scientist that made him The Wolverine. He offers to take away his knuckle 
swords because that is what Logan has always wanted. But  spoiler  he 
doesnt go through because, one, Logan realizes he will always be Wolverine, and 
two, Hollywood loves sequels. The following action scenes are pretty awesome as 
well. Keep your eyes out for the ?ghting sequence on top of the moving train. From 
the trailer, the movie looks very cheesy, but it is actually quite engrossing.
moviesinmcconomy
McConomy Auditorium, University Center

---------------------------------------------------

feature
pillbox 10.27.1498feature
pillbox 10.27.14
Last week, the Helen Wayne Rauh Theater in the 
Purnell Center came alive with the world premiere of 
three original works   Babylon, Stupid Ghost, and The 
Recluse  written by Carnegie Mellon School of Drama 
masters students performed by acting undergraduates. 
Known as the School of Dramas New Works Series, 
which sees an installment each fall and spring, the 
shows saw multiple performances between October 22 
and 24th.
Babylon
Babylon, written by masters dramatic writing student 
Dan Giles and directed by masters directing student 
Terrence Mosley, started out completely black with 
noises of wind and wind chimes heightening awareness 
of sound. The light rose to reveal a bed, a table with four 
stools, a kitchen cart, and various plants, books, dolls, 
and shoes to demarcate the different areas in the house 
(bedroom, kitchen, and outdoor space). It was a rather 
dingy set with the bed frame vandalized and a bare 
mattress, along with minimal kitchen supplies.
As the chimes subsided, audience members were 
introduced to fraternal twins Sam (junior musical theatre 
major Josh Grosso) and Liza (junior acting major Chante 
Adams). They stay up until midnight in anticipation of 
their 17th birthday. Liza climbs into Sams bed as they 
reminisce about the past 17 years. It soon becomes 
obvious they are orphans; or at least that their parents 
are no longer in their lives. Their words become a 
whirlwind as the memories and nostalgia turn into a 
tornado of conversation. The audience was so immersed 
in the dialogue when I attended the show, that genuine 
surprise could be heard in the form of gasps when Liza 
kissed Sam. (Taboo subjects within the ?rst 20 minutes, 
check.)
Taken aback and shocked, Liza and Sam go back to 
sleep while Owen (junior musical theatre major Avery 
Smith), their older brother, enters the kitchen to start 
the birthday breakfast. He ?ddles with a sign that says 
HAPPY BARTHDAY. (Hmmmthats curious, he 
doesnt know how to spell birthday?) Owen paces madly 
through the kitchen as he scrubs the table and readies 
the area, setting out the plates and utensils. Liza and 
Sam wake up and the tension is palpable between them. 
It also doesnt help that Owen has a favorable disposition 
toward Liza. So with the sour attitude from Owen and 
his uncertainty about his relationship with his sister, 
Sam explodes on Owen, telling him he should have 
actually killed himself when he had the chance.
At this point I have deduced three things: one, Owen is 
bipolar or schizophrenic, or both; two, this is probably 
some apocalyptic future (10 years post-apocalyptic, to be 
exact), and three, their father was most likely taken by 
this apocalypse. We also ?gure out there is an incestuous 
love triangle amongst Sam, Liza, and Owen: Liza likes 
Sam, Owen likes Sam, and Sam is just confused.
But it isnt until Owen has a bad spell and is convinced 
he is able to ?y with angels, that things take a turn 
for the worst. Persuaded that he must cut pages out 
of books in order for that to happen, Owen advances 
toward a book with a knife in hand. Sam wants to keep 
the books pristine, as they are the only ones that exist 
as far as he knows. Sam is able to swipe the knife from 
his hands, but when a lost stranger comes into the 
house, Sams attention is averted. In Sams moment of 
distraction, Owen is able to grab the knife and stabs the 
stranger straight in the stomach. Intermission falls and 
the audience is left wondering if the stranger is dead or 
alive.
A 10 minute intermission becomes six months in the 
world of Babylon, and the stranger, Mason, is alive. In 
fact, he has gotten quite close with Liza since the last 
time we left him. This becomes a point of tension when 
he reveals to her that he raped a 13 year-old when he 
was 34. Meanwhile, in a ?t of hysteria, Owen storms off 
into the post-apocalyptic outside just to have Sam run 
after him. Shortly after Sam returns with shivering Owen 
(its the middle of winter at this point), Mason leaves 
due to his resurfacing feelings toward much younger 
girls (read: Liza). As all three siblings lie in bed, Sam 
discloses to Liza his desire to look for their dad in the 
city, convinced he is still alive. She does not want him 
to leave her, and Sam says he will stay. But right after 
Liza falls asleep, Sam escapes. Liza wakes up to ?nd Sam 
is no longer in the house, and has a good ol fashioned 
freak out a l The Real Housewives of New Jersey. The 
play concludes with Liza daydreaming about having a 
child and naming her Summer  a season she vaguely 
remembers.
Babylon, being the most dramatic of the three plays, 
has an extra dimension of thoughtfulness. Giles clearly 
took the time to consider how three people would live 
if, for all they know, they were the only three people on 
the planet. The concept of a secret is useless, and the 
uncertainty of the future weighs heavily on them. The 
School of Drama premieres New Works
Three student-written plays see their debut performances in the semesterly series last week
The Recluse, directed by assistant acting professor 
Andrew Smith, told the story of a boy and his 
somewhat shady imaginary puppet friend.
 Photo courtesy of the School of Drama
by Meredith Newman | Staffwriter[]
actors did a phenomenal job encompassing this idea 
well. Shout out to Smith, whose portrayal of a mentally ill 
man slowly going over the edge was hypnotizing.
Stupid Ghost
Masters dramatic writing student Savannah Reichs 
hilarious Stupid Ghost, directed by John Wells Directing 
Fellow Ben Gansky, did not conform to a typical dramatic 
format. When I ?rst walked in, the actors were already 
on the stage wearing the stereotypical ghost costume, 
white sheets with eyeholes cut out. They padded around 
the littered stage and OOOOHHH!-ed like ghosts as 
the speakers blasted white noise and occasional bursts 
of music. They each carried around seemingly random 
objects: a whisk, a red canoe paddle, a scuba mask, a 
rotary phone, etc.
The dialogue started with the removal of a sheet to 
reveal a girl (junior musical theatre major Amanda 
Jerry) with stark white makeup, wearing a sign around 
her neck, which is invisible to everyone else, labeled 
GHOST. She was joined by another ghost labeled as 
Poltergeist (junior acting major Ryan Avalos) in the 
program, to explain that ghosts arent as terrifying 
as one thinks; they just want to follow you, no scary 
business. Cue Veronica Ronnie (junior musical theatre 
major Erika Olson), who walks through the forest with 
a sign around her neck that says PRETTY GIRL. As 
the Ghost spots her, she instantly becomes infatuated. 
She follows her around, but restrains herself when it 
comes to interacting with her. The Poltergeist teases 
and tempts the Ghost to do more by possessing Ronnies 
mother (Note: Sign around the Poltergeists neck now 
says MOTHER (POSSESSED)). As Ronnies mother, 
the Poltergeist is in a position of power to mess with the 
Ghost.
Later that night, a teenage boy (as noted on his sign) 
named Jean Pierre (junior musical theatre major Adam 
Stern-Rand) invites Ronnie to the lake, simultaneously 
bragging about going off to college while she is stuck 
back home for one more year. Ronnie declines the 
invitation as she has homework to do. Ronnie goes 
back to her books, but becomes distracted when the 
telephone rings. It is the Ghost. The Ghost is desperate 
at this point to have some kind of interaction, so she 
pretends to be Ronnies human friend, which, easy to 
assume, does not go smoothly. When Ronnie exits the 
room, the Ghost pretends to be Ronnie. The Ghost sits 
at Ronnies desk, does the same expressions as her, and 
tries on Ronnies headband for the rest of the night. The 
Ghost walks outside where she runs into Jean Pierre. He 
notices the Ghost; In fact, he thinks shes Ronnie. The 
headband the Ghost had put on has made her human 
and, in a moment of excitement the Ghost agrees to go 
down to the lake, despite what actual Ronnie had said. 
At this point, the Poltergeist knows whats going on in 
terms of headbands, so he proceeds to lock Ronnie in her 
room to avoid revealing themselves.
Ronnie has no idea what is going on and goes full 
angsty-teenager mode. Meanwhile, in a canoe on the 
lake, the Ghost and Jean Pierre get romantic and decide 
to go a step further by having sex. Jean Pierre and the 
Ghost move onto an island where Ronnie, who escaped 
from her room, spots them. She is able to faintly see 
Jean Pierre and another girl. She calls out his name, but 
cant be heard since the music is turned up too loud. 
Afterward, Ronnie ends up wandering the streets all 
night and falling asleep in a ditch. She wakes up the day 
of a Halloween party: a Halloween party where everyone 
dresses as a ghost (callback to the beginning). It is at this 
party where the Ghost and Ronnie take off their sheets to 
?nd out they are the same person. This revelation makes 
Ronnie frantic as the Ghost and Jean Pierre drive off in 
a car. Jean Pierre is incredibly confused, and the Ghost 
is incredibly overwhelmed by all the chaos she set off. 
With all these thoughts in her head the Ghost does not 
see Ronnie in the middle of the street. She crashes into 
her, not only killing Ronnie, but also killing Jean Pierre 
and leaving them in the same place as they were in the 
beginning: padding around pointlessly in the sound of 
white noise as ghosts.
Stupid Ghost was an unexpectedly funny play that was 
still rooted in a larger moral question. Just like Babylon, 
Stupid Ghost ?irted with themes of life and death due to 
the delightfully on point, and at times self-deprecating, 
writing of Reich. But the comedy is not just in the 
writing. This play is for anyone who is a fan of physical 
comedy. From clueless, clumsy cooking to uninhibited, 
?ailing dance numbers, not one of the actors in the group 
dragged the lightness of humor down. The audience was 
a constant chorus of laughter, knowing where to laugh 
and where to remain silent. This kind of play makes an 
impact based on how harmoniously the comedic and 
dramatic elements coexist.
The Recluse; or The Rise and Fall of a Makeshift 
Pal
The Recluse; or The Rise and Fall of a Makeshift Pal, 
written by masters dramatic writing student Stephen 
Webb and directed by assistant acting professor 
Andrew Smith, is a dark comedy about a very lonely 
artist. His name is Herman (junior acting major Colin 
Whitney). Hes been walking into his art studio (a 
converted basement in his dead parents home) every 
day, and every day he takes a piece of cardboard and 
paints a sad face on it. His parents have passed away, 
and he is an only child without any friends, so Herman 
decides to build his own friend out of cardboard, paper 
plates, duct tape, and paint brushes. He names his new 
friend Hightower. Herman soon realizes that pieces of 
cardboard stuck together cant talk, and concludes there 
is nothing left to live for. He attempts to hang himself 
before a voice tells him to stop. Its Hightower (junior 
acting major Zach Fifer).
Hightower (a large puppet voiced by an actor) is able 
to talk, walk, and dance with his new pal Herman. 
Hermans newfound pal inspires him to draw something 
different than sad faces  happy faces. Hightower 
then sings a song with lyrics that include, If theres 
more than two of us, then someones gotta go. The ?rst 
indicator that this relationship is dangerously close ?ies 
over Hermans head. Hes just happy to have a friend. 
When Herman proposes to take his happy faces out into 
the world and sell them, Hightower completely shuts 
it down. Hightower believed those paintings were just 
for them, not for anyone else: example number two of a 
dangerous relationship.
After Hightower goes to sleep, Herman sneaks back 
down to his art studio to take the paintings out. 
However, after a little bit, he has a change of heart and 
returns the paintings; But not before Hightower noticed 
that they were missing. They get into a big ?ght with 
Hightower calling Herman not faithful, but ultimately 
making up after Herman confesses that Hightower saved 
his life. And after singing their signature song (If theres 
more than two of us, then someones gotta go), in walks 
someone else, right on cue. Its a fading art dealer by the 
name of Francesca Del Monte (junior musical theatre 
major Molly Griggs).
Francesca had spotted Herman outside of an art store 
and got a tingling feeling. She even brought up Leroy 
(junior musical theatre major Chris Garber), a much 
older decrepit man who bears a resemblance to Herman. 
This man scares Herman of what his future will look 
like and Herman is now eager to impress Francesca, 
which might jumpstart his career. Sadly, none of his sad 
faces or happy faces impress her. But Del Monte is still 
convinced that he has the pice de rsistance hidden 
away somewhere. She begs him to show her anything 
new, but if Herman were to show Francesca Hightower, 
it might separate them.
Francesca and Leroy leave, still suspicious that Herman 
is hiding something. So they come back later at night 
and ?nd Hightower. Francesca believes Hightower is a 
piece of art that will solve all of her gallery troubles. She 
is ecstatic, but is derailed when Herman is woken up 
by the commotion. Herman comes downstairs to see 
that Francesca has found Hightower. In an effort to keep 
Hightower with him and prove Hightower belongs in 
the studio, Herman screams with all his might to make 
Hightower talk. The effort fails but Francesca decides to 
leave Hightower in the studio; It is clear Herman is way 
too attached. Francesca leaves the studio and, instantly 
regretful, Herman slaps the life out of Hightower and 
goes back to a life of painting sad faces.
If Babylon and Stupid Ghost had a baby, this play would 
be the outcome. The performance was a perfect mixture 
of seriousness and levity. It started on a heavy note 
and ended on a heavy note, but Griggs, as Francesca, 
was able to lift the middle of the play while still playing 
an outrageously hilarious character. The color scheme 
throughout the play was also well executed. In the 
beginning, Herman practically blended in with his studio 
?lled with cardboard, but when bright red Francesca 
walks in, she pops in the scene and marks the turning 
point in the play. It is also worth noting the pleasantly 
surprising use and excellent execution of puppeteering 
(a l Avenue Q).
New Works gave a good range of plays that has me 
on the look out for next years crop of talented actors, 
directors, playwrights, and production teams.

---------------------------------------------------

10fashion
pillbox 10.27.14
Although it has of?cially been fall for a while now, 
temperatures have not dropped until recently, and the 
time to transition our wardrobes from summer clothes 
to items more suitable for colder weather is now quickly 
approaching.
At the same time, it is frustrating to leave your house 
in the morning wearing a sweater, fully prepared to 
brave the cold, only for the weather to suddenly become 
warmer in the middle of the day. As a result, the 
transition period between fall and winter that generally 
occurs from October through November can be dif?cult 
to handle. However, being aware of whats in style this 
fall can really help. How do you ?gure out whats in 
style, you ask? Most of the stuff seen on runways isnt 
really wearable in a practical sense. Whats important 
is knowing how to translate those styles into your 
wardrobe to make them your own.
In Vogue Paris article, 20 trends for Fall/Winter 
20142015, the runways were full of clothing inspired by 
styles of the 60s, including trapeze dresses and pastel 
colors, which is especially surprising considering the 
season. Try this style out with a trapeze or babydoll-?t 
dress. A personal favorite is the Free People Sundown 
Babydoll Dress. Although the dress is quite summery, 
it can still be worn in the fall with a pair of simple black 
tights, short heeled boots, and a cardigan. As simple as 
putting together this out?t is, it gives off the appearance 
that you put a lot of effort into pairing the pieces and 
are keeping up with trends. If you really feel like going 
all out that day, add a simple necklace to tie everything 
together.
Another one of Vogues 20 mentioned trends is 
described as all over knits, and thats the only way to 
describe it. Pictures featuring clothing by Marc Jacobs 
and Cline show models dressed head-to-toe in the 
same color and texture of knit, meaning that theyre 
wearing sweater pants to match the sweater that theyre 
wearing. Sweaters are a normal thing to wear, but the 
sweater pants look a little crazy. Luckily, theres another 
option that you can take which still follows the same 
theme, but looks more normal. Stores such as Modcloth 
and Free People have recently been featuring what 
theyve been calling sweater leggings, which sound 
strange but actually look really cool. The leggings I found 
on Modcloths website have a Fair Isle design, while the 
ones at Free People are available in a variety of designs, 
including ?oral print. Pair them with a neutral colored 
sweater, and maybe a green anorak jacket (which has 
been in style since last fall), and short black boots.
Yet another one of the trends mentioned by Vogue was 
eccentric furs, which I not only found entertaining 
but also saw as a potential source of fashion inspiration. 
While Im not asking you to wear the black and white 
fur coat seen at Alexander McQueens show (its pretty 
scary; you should look it up), this look is commonly 
reinterpreted with a fur vest. This trend is something I 
wouldnt incorporate into my wardrobe on a daily basis, 
but it might be nice for events for which you need to look 
a little nicer or slightly trendier. Just throw one of these 
on over a simple neutral-toned sweater, dark-wash jeans, 
and tall boots or short heeled booties.
Ponchos made a comeback this fall as well, which is 
interesting since the last time I remember them being 
in style was when I was in the ?fth grade. They can be 
tough to pull off, and youd de?nitely have to go all out 
with the bohemian look if youre going to try wearing a 
poncho. As a result, I would check Free People for some 
great bohemian ponchos. Though its on the pricy side, 
my favorite one is the Starlight Shadow Poncho Cardi. 
As its name suggests, this item of clothing is halfsweater, half-poncho. Pair it with a pair of simple black 
leggings and short brown boots.
Taking trends you see on the runway and making them 
your own is a great way to get inspired when choosing 
your wardrobe for the cooling fall weather. Generally, 
wear one of these statement pieces with other simple 
pieces. Doing this also makes it easier for you; if you 
want to try one or more of these trends, you wont have 
to splurge on buying things that match it since most 
likely you have those items already.
Nikita Mishra | Staffwriter 
The colors and fashion trends are changing
A handy guide to some new and returning fashion items now that summer is of?cially over
Ponchos, which made a splash back in the day, are 
coming back in this falls fashion trends.
Screenshot courtesy of freepeople.com
Sweater leggings come in a variety of different 
prints and can be a very versatile addition to your 
fall wardrobe.
Screenshot courtesy of freepeople.com

---------------------------------------------------

comics
pillbox 10.27.1411
Extra Ordinary by Li Chen
email@exocomics.comexocomics.com
How Often Women Laugh At Your Jokes by Doghouse Diaries
doghousediaries@gmail.comthedoghousediaries.com

---------------------------------------------------

12comics
pillbox 10.27.14
What My Alarm Sounds Like by Reza Farazmand
poorlydrawnlines@gmail.compoorlydrawnlines.com
President Alert by xkcd
press@xkcd.comxkcd.com

---------------------------------------------------

puzzles
pillbox 10.27.1413
Solutions from Oct. 13
CrosswordHard DifficultyChallenging Difficulty
Kakuro Puzzle: Hard Difficulty Sudoku Puzzle: Very Tough Difficulty
Sudoku courtesy of www.krazydad.comKakuro courtesy of www.krazydad.com
Fill all empty squares using numbers 1 to 9 so the sum of 
each row equals the clue on its left, and the sum of each 
column equals the clue on its top. No number may be used 
in the same row or column more than once.
Fill all empty squares using numbers 1 to 9. No number 
may be used in the same row or column more than once.

---------------------------------------------------

14horoscope
pillbox 10.27.14
 1. Scarf
 2. Graph prefix
 3. Member of a largely Middle Eastern 
people
 4. Withstands
 5. Large lizard
 6. Brushes
 7. Caustic stuff
 8. Canadian gas brand
 9. Peace Nobelist Sakharov
10. Ammunition chest
11. Future docs exam
12. Sea eagle 
13. Bird feed
21. Little laugh
23. First name in cosmetics
25. Put up
27. Rephrase
28. Columbuss birthplace
29. Examine account books
31. Aardvarks prey 
32. Compass point
33. Be gaga over
34. Divulge
36. Precious stones
40. Springs
41. Every 24 hours
44. Ecstasy
47. Kings staff
49. Whisk
50. Ancient musician
53. Group of eight
54. Scottish boys
55. Busy as ___
56. Like some dorms
57. James ____ Jones
59. Baum barker
60. Some nest eggs
61. Sheep shelter
64. Actress Carrie
 1. Box
 5. Not working
 9. High points
14. River in central Switzerland
15. Fellas
16. Mother-of-pearl
17. Ladies of Sp.
18. Employs
19. Cheers waitress
20. Natural environment
22. Unit of magnetic intensity
24. Meaning
26. Paris possessive
27. First name in whodunits
30. Lucid
35. Verduns river
36. Basic unit of heredity
37. Lymph ___
38. Wrap up
39. Voted into a seat
42. Go bad
43. Film ___
45. CPR experts
46. Minute Maid Park player
48. Computerized information 
storage
50. Fungus
51. Energy
52. Holmess creator
54. Yeast enzyme
58. Puzzling
62. Circa
63. Opponent
65. Bull
66. Caterpillar rival
67. Some whiskeys
68. Coup d___ 
69. Passover feast
70. Riga residen
71. Ascended, flower
ACROSSDOWN
Horoscopes
aries
march 21april 19
Aries like unique adventures. Try for a day of skydiving, rock 
climbing, or going on a cool river cruise through a remote 
location.
taurus
april 20may 20
Tauruses are laid-back and love homey destinations that 
are a little exotic. Try heading to a place thats known for its 
food and nice scenery.
gemini
may 21june 21
Geminis like to be entertained constantly, so plan a variety 
of activities. Choose a place where you can go parasailing, 
kayaking, surfing, etc.
cancer
june 22july 22
Cancers like to be cozy and surrounded by people they 
love. They enjoy being near water, so consider renting a 
beach house or a lakeside cabin with some friends.
leo
july 23aug. 22 
Leos love glamour and people. Go for a place that has a 
cool nightlife.
virgo
aug. 23sept. 22
Virgos are super organized and love to explore new things. 
Check out a yoga retreat or a cruise that docks in places 
youve never been before.
libra
sept. 23oct. 22
Libras are artsy and romantic and love being with people. 
Pampering is a major plus, so find a nice resort where you 
and your buddies can get some nice massages.
scorpio
oct. 23nov. 21
Scorpios are passionate and smart. Take a week or two 
to head some place exotic, and hit up a few bars and 
restaurants while youre there.
sagittarius
nov. 22dec. 21
Sagittarians live to travel and they like big luxurious places. 
Try heading to a hike in Machu Picchu.
capricorn
dec. 22jan. 19
Capricorns love to take charge and are drawn to the past, 
so visit a place with a lot of history. Try to explore a place 
you can let loose.
aquarius
jan. 20feb. 18
Aquarius are into anything unique and love meeting new 
people. Opt for a place off the beaten path like a remote 
beach.
pisces
feb. 19march 20
Pisces are hooked on travel that makes them feel fulfilled 
and calm. Take a pass on a packed place like New York 
City and look more toward a quieter place like Austin or 
Sedona.Maryyann Landlord | Comics Editor
Crossword courtesy of BestCrosswords.com
Vacation Spots 

---------------------------------------------------

calendar
pillbox 10.27.1415
Wednesday 10.29.14
Not Finished Yet: Hazelwoods Perseverance in the 
Face of Food Scarcity screening. 
Kresge Theatre. 4 p.m.
Afterward, there will be a panel discussion moderated by 
Ken Regal, Executive Director of Just Harvest.
Insane Clown Posse. Xtaza Nightclub. 7 p.m.
Words cant describe what will occur at this event, 
but it will certainly be unforgettable. Expect to see law 
enforcement gathered outside this large gathering of fans  
known as juggalos; a legally-classi?ed gang by the F.B.I.. 
Tickets can be purchased at ticket?y.com. 
Aaron Carter. Hard Rock Caf. 8 p.m.
Its Aarons party, so why dont you put away that problem 
set and come get it? Maybe hell beat Shaq, maybe 
hell want some candy; who knows what will go down? 
Expect a weird mix of feelings while singing along to 
songs you loved as an innocent child. Tickets can be 
purchased at ticket?y.com. 
Thursday 10.30.14
Pittsburgh Performance Innovation Ensemble. 
Kresge Theatre. 8 p.m.
Conductor Andrew Heath will lead the ensemble in a 
repertoire of world premiere pieces: Benjamin Scheers 
Narcissus and Feuds as well as Nathan Faros Spirit 
Music.
Friday 10.31.14
Pablo Amoros, Piano. Kresge Theatre. 8 p.m.
Spanish pianist Pablo Amoros will give a recital featuring 
the works of Leonardo Balada and his pupils. A coffee 
and dessert reception will follow the performance. This 
event is free and open to the public.
Isle of the Dead. Heinz Hall. 7:30 p.m.
The Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra will be presenting 
Rachmaninoffs poem The Isle of the Dead and his 
melancholic Symphony No. 3 just in time for Halloween. 
In addition, Nicola Benedetti will perform Szymanowskis 
Concerto No. 1 for the ?rst time in Pittsburgh. 
Performances continue through Sunday, and tickets can 
be purchased at trustarts.culturaldistrict.org.
Saturday 11.1.14
 
Beauty Slap. Brillobox. 9 p.m.
Join Beauty Slap, Jakeisrain, and Saumera for a 
celebration of Halloween at Brillobox. Beauty Slap 
incorporates live brass playing over electronic production, 
and Jakeisrain is a Carnegie Mellon-based electronic 
producer known for his creative use of samples and 
beats. This event is 21+.
Opening
Storyteller: The Photographs of Duane Michals. 
Carnegie Museum of Art. Through March 2.
This retrospective collection examines and celebrates 
the groundbreaking and rule bending Pittsburgh 
photographers life and work. Admission to the Carnegie 
Museum of Art is free with a valid Carnegie Mellon 
student ID.
Ongoing
 
Public Record. SPACE Galleries. Through Nov. 9
A collection of works by nine different artists from the 
international community. This presentation is part of 
the Pittsburgh Biennial 2014. Admission to the SPACE 
Galleries is free and open to the public.
The Glass Menagerie. OReilly Theater. Through Nov. 2.
The Pittsburgh Public Theater presents the Tennessee 
Williams classic, inspired by his own life and mentally 
fragile family. Tickets start at $15.75 for students and 
anyone under the age of 26. Tickets can be purchased at 
trustarts.culturaldistrict.org.
Chuck Connelly: My America. The Andy Warhol 
Museum. Through Jan. 4.
As part of the 2014 Pittsburgh Biennial, the Warhol is 
presenting works from Pittsburgh native and surrealist 
painter Chuck Connelly. Admission to the museum is free 
with a Carnegie Mellon student ID.
The 13 Most Wanted Men. The Andy Warhol Museum. 
Through Jan. 4.
This exhibit explores a controversy Warhol ignited at the 
1964 New York Worlds Fair, when he expanded and 
displayed mug shots from NYPD records of the 13 most 
wanted men of 1962. Admission to the museum is free 
with a Carnegie Mellon student ID.
Compiled by Joey Peiser | Pillbox Editor
Want your event here?
Email calendar@thetartan.org.

---------------------------------------------------

16feature
pillbox 10.27.14
Courtesy of Lindsey Cory
AB hosted the Late Night Jam on Saturday in the Jared L. Cohon 
University Center. Roger Romero, the saxophonist for Bergman, a 
jazz/funk band, puts his soul into the song. 
late night jam.
