Carnegie Mellons student newspaper since 1906
thetartan.org
@thetartan
August 19, 2013
Volume 108, Issue 1
Subra Suresh: CMUs ninth president
Pass provides free museum access
LAURA SCHERB
Assistant Pillbox Editor
Buying a dinosaur toy? $5. 
Seeing a movie about dinosaurs? $15. Getting to see the 
skeletons of the real thing? 
Priceless. 
Actually, its free for you 
through a Carnegie Mellon 
program known as Arts Pass. 
Sponsored by the Student 
Dormitory Council, the Student Senate, the Graduate 
Student Assembly, the College of Fine Arts Deans Of?ce, and the Division of Student Affairs, the program is 
designed to expose students 
to all that Pittsburgh has to 
offer culturally.
The program grants students free admission to the 
Carnegie Museum of Art, the 
Carnegie Museum of Natural 
History, the Carnegie Science Center, the Carnegie 
Science Centers Highmark 
SportsWorks, the Andy Warhol Museum, the Mattress 
Factory, the National Aviary, 
and Phipps Conservatory and 
Botanical Gardens. In order 
to experience any of these impressive venues, all you need 
to do is ?ash your Carnegie 
Mellon ID upon entry.
The venues included in 
the Arts Pass program offer 
a wide variety of culture. 
For the art junkies, theres 
the Carnegie Museum of 
Art in Oakland, a traditional 
art museum featuring most 
genres and types of work you 
can think of, from Japanese 
prints to Victorian furniture 
to photography. It covers art 
across the millennium and 
presents it in a clean, insightful manner.
Attached to the Museum 
of Art is the Museum of Natural History, which features 
stunning geological, botanical, and anthropological 
exhibits in addition to the 
ever-popular dinosaur and 
Egyptian exhibits. It really 
has something for everyone, 
and its worth a trip just to 
see the Egyptian tomb restoration. 
The close proximity of the 
Carnegie museums  theyre 
just down the street from 
campus  makes it even easier to experience these worldclass institutions.
If youre interested primarily in contemporary and 
modern art, use your Arts 
Pass to check out the Mattress 
Factory, a museum that features only modern art. Small 
but powerful, the Mattress 
Factory largely features fullroom exhibits called installations. The museum spans 
three repurposed buildings 
on the North Side and is well 
known for its thought-provoking exhibits.
Another artistic gem  
one that is 100 percent Pittsburgh  is the Andy Warhol 
Museum. This museum features all things Warhol, from 
sketches and prints to videos. 
But beyond showcasing just 
Warhols work, the exhibits 
feature artists in?uenced by 
Warhol that embody the contemporary artistic style he 
trademarked. 
For the more science-oriented among us, the Carnegie 
Science Center is a de?nite 
must-see. Nestled by Heinz 
Field on the North Shore, 
the center features exhibits 
on all things science-driven: 
a submarine; an aquarium 
exhibit; the worlds largest 
permanent robotic exhibit; 
a miniature railroad exhibit; 
Body Tech, a hands-on surgical exhibit; and a two-story 
walk-in model of the International Space Station, just for 
starters. 
Right next door is the 
Carnegie Science Centers 
Highmark SportsWorks, 
SONIA KATHARANI-KHAN
Staffwriter
On a festive occasion involving Carnegie Mellon 
students, faculty, staff, and 
alumni from around the 
world, former National Science Foundation (NSF) director Subra Suresh assumed of?ce as Carnegie Mellons new 
president at the end of last 
school year. Suresh began his 
term on July 1 as the universitys ninth president, succeeding President Jared Cohon. 
Suresh was selected by a 
17-member committee, which 
included representation from 
the universitys Board of 
Trustees, faculty, and alumni. 
Anthony Rollett, former head 
of the Faculty Senate and 
professor of materials science 
and engineering, chaired the 
faculty committee. The search 
committee selected Suresh 
from hundreds of outstanding 
candidates. 
As the co-chair of the 
search committee, it was extremely rewarding to work 
with the entire community 
in the search process and to 
succeed in attracting such an 
outstanding individual as our 
new president, Rollett said.
Suresh received his bachelor of technology from the 
Indian Institute of Technology, Madras in Chennai in May 
1977, his masters in science 
from Iowa State University in 
May 1979, and his doctorate 
from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in August 
1981. After completing his 
post-doctorate research at 
the University of California, 
Berkeley, he joined the Brown 
University faculty in December 1983.
After 10 years at Brown, 
Suresh joined MIT in 1993 as 
the R.P. Simmons Professor 
of Materials Science and Engineering, and later became 
the Vannevar Bush Professor 
of Engineering. In 2000, he 
was appointed head of the department of materials science 
and engineering. In July 2007, 
when he began his tenure as 
the dean of MITs School of 
Engineering, he became the 
?rst Asia-born dean of any 
MIT school.
During his time as dean 
at MIT, Suresh recruited a record number of women faculty members in engineering 
and promoted cutting-edge 
interdisciplinary study. As an 
accomplished engineer, he 
made medical discoveries by 
studying the mechanical nature of individual human cells 
and highlighting their connections to human disease states. 
Sureshs ability to pioneer 
innovation by combining academic disciplines set a precedent for the broad scope of research and career applications 
for MIT scholars, in engineering or otherwise. He remained 
at MIT until September 2010, 
when he was nominated by 
President Barack Obama and 
unanimously con?rmed by 
the Senate as director of the 
NSF.
As NSF director, Suresh focused not only on keeping the 
Researchers hope to solve fat-?nger problem with app 
NIVEDITA CHOPRA
Staffwriter
If youve ever tried drawing or writing on a touchscreen, you may have noticed 
that the lines drawn on the 
screen arent exactly where 
you wanted them to be. This 
fat ?nger problem arises 
because your ?nger is pretty 
large or fat compared to the 
small touchscreen. Recently, 
a team of computer scientists 
from Carnegie Mellon and 
Microsoft Research developed 
an app that automatically corrects drawing strokes while 
preserving the users artistic 
style.
This app, DrawAFriend, is 
currently available to download from the Mac App Store. 
It is a two-player game in 
which one player draws a picture of a celebrity or mutual 
Facebook friend while the other guesses the name of the person drawn in a Hangman-like 
fashion. The app automatically corrects users strokes, often 
without them noticing. Our 
goal was to make it invisible 
to the user, so people wouldnt 
even be aware the correction 
is taking place, said Alex Limpaecher, a Ph.D. student in 
computer science, in a university press release.
The team consisted of Limpaecher, computer science 
professor Adrien Treuille, 
Ph.D. student in computer 
science Nicolas Feltman, computer science professor Adrien 
Treuille, and Michael Cohen, 
a principal researcher in Microsoft Researchs Interactive 
Visual Media Group.
Initially, the main goal of 
the app was to gather data, 
which it did by encouraging 
users to draw sketches of Angelina Jolie, Brad Pitt, and other celebrities for their friends 
or other users to guess. In its 
?rst week, the game generated 
1,500 images a day, creating a 
huge database of drawings 
with stroke-by-stoke information. The game is still operational, and the database now 
exceeds 17,000 entries. This 
huge database of drawings allowed the team to analyze the 
drawings and come up with a 
stroke-correction algorithm. 
They applied the algorithm to 
future drawings on the app, allowing current users to create 
more precise sketches.
This is one of many problems that have been solved 
using big data. Big data refers to the collection of a large 
amount of speci?c data  in 
this case, drawings  to observe patterns in the data and 
solve a problem. The larger 
the data set, the more precise 
the patterns become and the 
better the solutions will be. 
In this case, a large database 
of drawings was essential for 
the researchers to correlate 
the strokes in the images, thus 
creating the algorithm for 
eliminating the noise associated with the fat ?nger problem.
In a press release, Treuille 
said that the drawing assistance app is just one example 
of how big data can be used 
to enhance drawing and writing on touchscreens and even 
provide insight into art and 
perception. The trick has been 
to create drawing databases 
large enough to leverage, 
which the research team did 
by developing DrawAFriend.
According to Limpaecher, the idea for the game 
stemmed from earlier projects 
and a need to address the dif?culties of gathering data involving drawings. Limpaecher 
had personally dealt with this 
problem. In a previous project, 
his team collected the data set 
from an artist. Not only did 
it take a long time to get the 
drawings; they were able to 
obtain only 154 images, not 
nearly enough to support a 
drawing assistance app. The 
goal here was to create a 
drawing helper that used other peoples drawings to help 
you draw, Limpaecher said 
via email.
At the moment, the app 
only helps people who are already adequate at drawing on 
a touchscreen but may need 
some assistance. Limpaecher 
says that in the future, he 
would like to add features that 
can help people at any talent 
level.
Courtesy of Alex Limpaecher
In DrawAFriend, one player attempts to draw the outline of a celebrity or a mutual friend while the other player attempts to guess the identity of the 
person. Above are two screenshots from the app.
RAs get ready for Class of 2017+
Jonathan Carreon/Contributing Editor
Upperclass resident assistants compare notes after a scavenger hunt Saturday afternoon. First-year Orientation of?cially begins with move-in today.
See SURESH, A2See MUSEUMS, A6
FORUM  A4ARTS & CULTURE  A6CAMPUS  A2
Welcome to Orientation, Carnegie Mellon Class of 2017+!

---------------------------------------------------

2  thetartan.org/scitech The Tartan  April 29, 2013A2  thetartan.org The Tartan  August 19, 2013Campus
Bacteria found, treated in FMS cooling towerStudent gets ?rst masters degree in bagpiping
Researchers software helps blind learn braille
CAMPUS NEWS IN BRIEF
During Commencement 
ceremonies on May 19, 
Carnegie Mellon granted 
the ?rst known masters 
degree of music in bagpipe 
performance in the United 
States to Andrew Bova.
Bova began his musical 
career with the ?ute at a 
young age; he became inspired to pick up the bagpipes when playing for a 
war re-enactment at Fort 
Meigs in his hometown of 
Perrysburg, Ohio.
I wanted to be part of 
a conservatory training 
program, to be immersed 
in my craft, Bova said in 
a university press release. 
There is a pervasive standard of excellence at Carnegie Mellon, no matter what 
area of study youre in. That 
standard is so high, youre 
always pushing yourself to 
do better, and I wanted that 
type of environment.
Bova plays the bagpipes 
as part of the Canada-based 
78th Fraser Highlanders Pipe Band, considered 
one of the worlds top pipe 
bands according to the 
press release. He also organized and performed in a 
bene?t concert for Operation Smile, an organization 
that provides free cleft palate surgeries. Bova himself 
was born with a cleft palate 
and would not have been 
able to pursue the bagpipes 
without corrective surgery.
The concerts were my 
way of giving back, Bova 
said. Plus, you can educate 
people about the instrument.
Bova received an undergraduate degree from 
Carnegie Mellon in bagpipe 
performance in 2011. His 
masters thesis was titled 
The Contemporary Performance Practice of Music 
Played on the Great Highland Bagpipe. He recently 
interviewed with the Royal 
Conservatoire of Scotland 
in Glasgow with hopes of 
earning his doctorate there.
Eight Carnegie Mellon 
students from both the Qatar and Pittsburgh campuses worked this summer on a 
technology research project 
in India to aid the visually 
impaired.
The team included senior business administration major Aveed Sheikh, 
senior cognitive science and 
computer science double 
major Madeleine Clute, junior civil and environmental engineering and biomedical engineering double 
major Madelyn Gioffre, 
robotics graduate student 
Poornima Kaniarasu, junior 
electrical and computer 
engineering major Aditya 
Kodkany, junior electrical 
and computer engineering 
major Vivek Nair, design 
graduate student Shree 
Lakshmi Rao, and senior 
applied and computational 
mathematics major Avia 
Weinstein.
The students spent the 
summer in Bangalore, having been selected to join the 
2013 innovative Student 
Technology ExPerience 
(iSTEP) internship. They 
worked in partnership with 
the Mathru Educational 
Trust for the Blind on developing a software device 
that helps blind students 
learn Braille.
It is a wonderful learning experience to work with 
a multitalented international CMU-Q team to make a 
positive difference, Sheikh 
said in an article in The Peninsula, an English-language 
newspaper in Qatar.
Compiled by
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
New president is noted scientist
7R OHDUQ PRUH DERXW $UP\ 5HVHUYH RSSRUWXQLWLHV,YLVLW XV DW JRDUP\.FRP/Y738
AR_PittsburgTartan.indd   18/9/13   8:19 AM
BRENT HEARD
Staffwriter
The Carnegie Mellon University community was noti?ed, via a Health and Safety 
Alert, of the presence of Legionella bacteria in a cooling 
tower on campus. Following 
the alert, sent out on July 23, 
the tower has been cleaned 
and inspected. 
The alert reported that 
the bacteria was identi?ed by 
a periodic testing program 
for Legionella [that] revealed 
high levels in a single cooling 
tower on campus, according to an email from director 
of Environmental Health and 
Safety Madelyn Miller. 
The tower, which was 
marked with yellow caution 
tape, is located near the Collaborative Innovation Center (CIC) and the Facilities 
Management Services (FMS) 
buildings. 
The bacteria has not spread 
into the surrounding air or 
water. Millers email stated 
that because the water in the 
cooling tower is not recirculated into the buildings air or 
water supply, indoor air quality and drinking water on campus are not affected, and that 
the tower was being treated to 
kill the bacteria. 
We dosed the towers 
heavily with chlorine and will 
take down the yellow tape, 
Miller said. 
Following the treatment, 
the tower was tested again 
for presence of the bacteria. 
Miller stated that the results 
revealed that Legionella was 
no longer present. 
We were very con?dent 
that our treatment protocol 
would be effective, said Don 
Coffelt, director of FMS.
Before this incident, the 
university tested for Legionella twice per year. One of the 
outcomes of this event is that 
were increasing our testing to 
monthly, Coffelt said.
I don't know if I've ever 
been to the building and it's 
de?nitely not in a high-traf?c 
area, senior international 
relations and politics major 
Corinne Rockoff said, so I 
can't imagine it ever being a 
danger to too many students. I 
hope it's not a problem for any 
of the FMS employees.
The Centers for Disease 
Controls (CDC) website 
states that Legionella is often 
found in areas of warm water 
such as hot tubs, cooling towers, plumbing systems, and 
fountains. Breathing in water 
droplets containing the bacteria can lead to Legionnaires 
disease. As the CDC describes, 
One example might be from 
breathing in droplets sprayed 
from a hot tub that has not 
been properly cleaned and 
disinfected. The bacteria are 
not spread from one person to 
another person.
Common symptoms of Legionnaires disease are coughing, shortness of breath, high 
fever, muscle aches, and headaches; these begin two to 14 
days after being exposed to 
the Legionella bacteria, according to the CDC website.
The Health and Safety 
Alert urged members of the 
campus community to contact 
University Health Services if 
they developed a cough, high 
fever, and other ?u-like symptoms, and had been near the 
water tower between the CIC 
and FMS buildings.
Miller explained that the 
only people who have come 
down with Legionella are immunocompromised  people 
with AIDS, liver transplants, 
and similar conditions that 
signi?cantly lower one's white 
blood cell count. 
I think people should 
know that Legionella is ubiquitous in the environment, 
Miller said.  It comes up in 
water-borne aerosols. Miller 
said that it is common to ?nd 
legionella in shower heads or 
the mist used to clean lettuce 
at grocery stores.
Junior economics major 
Radowan Khan said, The 
email gave me the impression 
that the university is taking 
its precautions seriously. It 
sounds like people are doing 
their jobs and I'm not at all 
concerned.
Coffelt emphasized that 
the Legionella was isolated 
from water in the building, 
and compared the cooling 
system to a radiator for a car. 
Fluid from the radiator does 
not enter the engine  it is 
used instead to regulate temperature.
Because the population is 
so dense on a university campus, we try to keep our levels 
down to a hospitals level, 
Miller said.
United States at the forefront 
of scienti?c development, 
but also on empowering current and future generations 
of scientists. The focus of his 
initiatives included training 
young scientists to balance 
work and family life, accelerating commercialization of 
university research, teaching researchers to transform 
their ideas into products, and 
emphasizing international 
scienti?c collaboration.
Science and science policy are inextricably tied together, and Dr. Subra Suresh 
has power in both courts, 
said Diane Turnshek, special 
faculty member in the department of physics. Beyond 
his leadership at MIT and the 
NSF, Suresh has been recognized worldwide for his work 
in the ?elds of engineering, 
life sciences, physical sciences, and medicine. He has coauthored over 240 research 
articles, collaborated on over 
20 U.S. and international 
patent applications, and coedited ?ve books. He has also 
authored three widely used 
materials science textbooks: 
Fatigue of Materials, Fundamentals of Functionally Graded Materials, and Thin Film 
Materials. 
The MSE faculty are absolutely delighted to have 
such a distinguished scholar 
as Subra Suresh as a member 
of the materials science and 
engineering department and 
we look forward to supporting him in any way that we 
can, Rollett said via email. 
Suresh has been acclaimed 
by ScienceWatch.com as one 
of the decades most eminent 
and most cited materials scientists worldwide. Suresh 
made additional contributions to the ?eld of engineering through his development 
of strategies to optimize 
strength, ductility, and damage tolerance of materials 
using nanoscale internal 
interfaces; his discovery of 
nanocrystallization during 
room-temperature mechanical contact in metallic glasses; and his identi?cation of 
key mechanisms that in?uence the growth of fatigue 
cracks in a wide variety of 
brittle and ductile materials.  
Aside from his research 
highlighting important links 
between individual cell processes and human disease 
states, he has contributed to 
the medical ?eld through his 
development of new micro?uidic platforms for human 
disease diagnostics, therapeutics, and drug ef?cacy assays. 
Among many honors, he 
has received the American 
Society of Mechanical Engineers 2012 Timoshenko Medal, the highest global recognition in the ?eld of theoretical 
and applied mechanics, and 
the 2007 European Materials Medal, the highest honor 
bestowed by the Federation 
of European Materials Societies. His work on nanobiomechanics was cited by Technology Review magazine as one 
of the top 10 emerging technologies that will have a signi?cant impact on business, 
medicine, or culture.
Carnegie Mellon University is a guiding force in the 
world today, and I celebrate 
that at its helm is a leader 
who has been trained as a 
scientist and engineer, Turnshek said. His record demonstrates that hes thought 
deeply and scienti?cally 
about solutions to our global 
problems.
With the dawn of the 
new academic year, Carnegie Mellon welcomes a 
president who is not only a 
distinguished scholar and 
esteemed leader, but also an 
individual who has remained 
committed to empowering 
scholars across disciplines.
Jonathan Carreon/Contributing Editor
A Carnegie Mellon cooling tower tested positive for Legionella last month. According to Environmental Health 
and Safety personnel, the bacteria did not affect indoor air or water quality on campus.
SURESH, from A1
File photo
Subra Suresh comes from a 
backround of heavy involvement 
in materials sciences.
More coverage online,   both on campus and off...
SCITECH How Things Work: Food preservation
SCITECH Science & Technology Briefs
PILLBOX Campus fashion: How to look like a college student
Read The Tartan in print every Monday  and online every day of the week!

---------------------------------------------------

August 19, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org  A3
ALVIN MATHEW
Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellon faculty 
members continue to succeed 
when they leave academia. 
Recently, three former computer science professors  
Rick Rashid, Peter Lee, and 
Jeannette Wing  bene?ted 
from the revamping of Microsoft Research. 
Lee is the head of Microsoft Research after previously 
leading Microsofts U.S. research operations; he took 
over for Rashid, who is now a 
member of Microsofts Operation Systems group.
Randal E. Bryant, dean of 
Carnegie Mellons School of 
Computer Science, described 
Microsoft Research: Microsoft has a separate research 
laboratory.... Its one of the 
largest corporate research 
laboratories in the world, 
and they have branches that 
span literally across the whole 
world. Bryant estimated that 
MSR has about 800 people 
working for it. Branch locatons include Redmond, Wash.; 
Mountain View, Calif.; Cambridge, Mass.; Cambridge, 
England; and Beijing, China.
Wing noted the similarities 
between Microsoft Research 
and the world of academia. 
Companies usually have research labs, but Microsoft Research is a little different from 
any other company because it 
really supports basic research, 
much like the kind of research 
that is done at academia. 
Were very open about what it 
is we do  we publish openly, 
she said.
The difference of course 
between Microsoft Research 
and an industrial research lab 
and an academic institution 
is that we are funded by the 
company, Microsoft  were 
actually a very small part of 
that company, Wing said. 
But it also enables researchers at Microsoft Research access to have an impact on the 
company, impact on the product and services that Microsoft 
produces.
Still, researchers have academia-like freedom to choose 
the problems they work on, 
Wing said.
Bryant discussed the former professors departures 
from Carnegie Mellon. First 
to leave was Peter Lee, and 
he got lured away, and then 
Jeannette got lured away last 
January. Both of them had 
been heads of the computer 
science [department]. Both of 
them were really great, both in 
their research and their teaching, and Microsoft was eager 
to have them. And recently  
about a month ago  it was 
announced that the former 
head of Microsoft Research, 
Rick Rashid, was stepping 
aside, and Peter Lee was going 
to take over his position. And 
then Jeannette is sort of his 
deputy.
Rachid was a senior faculty 
member who left the university around 1992, Bryant said. 
At the time Microsoft didnt 
really have a research organization, and Bill Gates decided 
they really needed one and he 
chose Rick Rashid and recruited him ... and hes been doing 
great with it.
Wing was a longtime Carnegie Mellon faculty member. I 
started at Carnegie Mellon in 
1985, as an assistant professor 
... and during that time, Ive 
been department head twice, 
spent a couple sabbaticals 
away from Carnegie Mellon, 
and I also served at the National Science Foundation for 
a few years, she said. 
Wing, who left the university in January, takes over as 
corporate vice president of Microsoft Research.
On the dynamic between 
herself and Lee, she said, We 
are like partners. We run all of 
Microsoft Research together. 
For the most part, he and I are 
running Microsoft Research 
jointly. We make joint decisions about budget and hiring 
and policies and so on.
The concept of becoming a 
leader at Microsoft Research 
did not seem impossible to 
Wing. About her transition 
from faculty member, Wing 
said, I think it was really natural. In academia, a professor 
is required to write proposals 
for funding research for himself or herself or for his or her 
students, and always coming 
up with new ideas: looking 
ahead, looking to the future 
 and ?rst and foremost, advancing the students art. I 
think its natural for a faculty 
member to move into a research management position 
where youre doing overseeing 
in an organization that itself is 
doing that. 
Wings experience in guiding the computer science department also helped with 
the transition. For me, I also 
think its natural because as 
department head, Im representing all areas of the wing, 
not just my own research, she 
said. In my position at Microsoft Research, I am representing all areas of computing and 
beyond. So there are other 
science and engineering areas 
that I represent, and its all 
about pushing the state of the 
art, much like in academia.
For Bryant, the recent news 
is bittersweet. Were sorry to 
see them go. It means weve 
lost some very great faculty 
members, but we have a new 
head, Frank Pfenning. Hes doing an excellent job, so were 
pretty con?dent that well be 
able to continue on.
Former professors take key jobs at Microsoft Research
music.cmu.edu
CARNEGIE 
MELLON
SCHOOL 
OF MUSIC
  201314 CONCERT SERIES
CMU students, faculty, and staff admitted 
free to all School of Music events by 
presenting a CMU ID at the door.
Sunday, September 15, 8pm
Carnegie Music Hall, Oakland
CMU Philharmonic  
Andrs Crdenes, Artistic Director
Mimi Jung, violin
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
Assistant News Editor
Over the summer, students received an email from 
Provost and Executive Vice 
President Mark S. Kamlet announcing the appointment 
of Keith Webster as dean of 
libraries.
According to the email, 
Webster will hold the rank of 
principal librarian, and will 
receive a courtesy academic 
appointment at the H. John 
Heinz III School of Public Policy and Management.
Webster, whose appointment began on July 1, is succeeding Gloriana St. Clair.
St. Clair, who served as 
dean of libraries 19982013, 
has led projects such as the 
Universal Library and the Million Books Project, according 
to the Carnegie Mellon website. St. Clair is also a J.R.R. 
Tolkien scholar; she wrote her 
doctoral thesis on Tolkiens 
use of Norse mythology in his 
books.
St. Clairs time as dean of 
libraries was marked by an 
embrace of the ever-growing 
role of digitalization in todays libraries. A Pittsburgh 
Post-Gazette article on the 
subject calls St. Clair a national leader in digitizing library material and highlights 
her role in providing digital 
access to Carnegie Mellon academic papers and journals. 
According to Kamlets email, 
St. Clair has now transitioned 
to emeritus status.
Webster brings experience 
from several previous appointments at other universities.
Before being appointed 
dean of the libraries at Carnegie Mellon, Webster was 
vice president and director of 
academic relations and strategy for the global publishing 
company John Wiley & Sons. 
He was also dean of libraries 
and university librarian at the 
University of Queensland in 
Australia.
Kamlet wrote that the University of Queensland library 
is one of the largest libraries in the southern hemisphere, while the University 
of Queensland website calls 
its library, which comprises 
15 branches, the states 
[Queenslands] largest research collection.
Webster has also served 
as the university librarian at 
Victoria University in New 
Zealand and as head of information rights at HM Treasury 
in London.
Webster received his B.S. 
in library studies and computer science from Loughborough University in Leicestershire, U.K., and his masters 
degree in management of 
libraries and information 
services from the graduate 
school of the University of 
Wales, Aberystwyth. Webster 
is currently completing a masters degree in international 
economics and ?nance at the 
University of Queensland.
Kamlet also described in 
his email Websters role as 
principal investigator on 
signi?cant government and 
foundation grants in Australia, England, and Scotland. 
Websters projects include 
directing the creation of Text 
Queensland, described on its 
website as a unique and dynamic collection of full-text, 
searchable, digitized sources 
on Queensland colonial and 
state history.
Webster is on the board 
of directors of the National 
Information Standards Organization and was a trustee of 
the John Campbell Trust, according to Kamlets email. 
Webster is also the chair 
of the deans and directors of 
the libraries of the Universitas 
21 consortium, an organization of research universities 
self-described on its website 
as the leading global network of research-intensive 
universities, working together 
to foster global citizenship 
and institutional innovation 
through research-inspired 
teaching and learning, student mobility, connecting our 
students and staff, and wider 
advocacy for internationalization.
The search committee responsible for Websters appointment was chaired by 
Vice Provost Amy Burkert 
and comprised of nine other 
participants: administrators 
in the library system, faculty 
members from across the university, and Dietrich College 
Dean John Lehoczky.
New library dean takes over
I am representing all areas of 
computing and beyond ... and its 
all about pushing the state of the 
art, much like in academia.
Jeannette Wing,
Microsoft Research corporate vice president
GET 
IN ON 
THE 
ACTION
JOINTHE TARTAN
contact@thetartan.org

---------------------------------------------------

A PERSONS OPINION
Office: University Center 314
Phone: (412) 268-2111
Fax: (412) 268-1596
Web: www.thetartan.org
E-mail: contact@thetartan.org
Mail:
The Tartan
Box 119, UC Suite 103 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Editorial Staff
 2013 The Tartan, all rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN: 0890-3107
The Tartan is a student newspaper at Carnegie Mellon University, funded in part by the student 
activities fee. It is a weekly publication by students during the fall and spring semesters, printed by 
Trib Total Media. The Tartan is not an official publication of Carnegie Mellon University.
The Editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The 
Tartan Editorial Board. Columns, Editorial Cartoons, and Reviews are the opinions of their 
individual creators. The Tartan Editorial Staff reserves the right to withhold from publication 
any copy it deems unfit.
Letters to the Editor are the opinions of their authors. Letters from within the University community take precedence. Letters intended for publication must be signed and include the authors 
address and telephone number for verification; letters must not exceed 350 words. Authors names 
may be withheld from publication upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject 
any letter. Letters must be submitted by 5 p.m. on the Wednesday before publication by mail or to 
forum@thetartan.org.
* Denotes executive committee member
StaffEditorial Board
FROM THE EDITORIAL BOARD
SENIOR STAFF 
Greg Hanneman
COPY
Swathi Anand, Francesca Begos, Sawsan 
Boutemine, Matt Brown, Nivedita Chopra, Ellie 
Erlich, Blaine Greenberg, Jordyn Greenberg, 
Chris Han, Satvika Neti, Joey Peiser, Sage Po, 
Taylor Rawley
LAYOUT
Karthik Nagalingam
ADVERTISING
Kyle Henson, Gretchen Tan
KELSEY SCOTT *
Operations Manager
NOL UM
News Editor
MICHAEL SETZER
SciTech Editor
RACHEL COHEN
Pillbox Editor
KAIRAVI CHAHAL
Comics Editor
KATE GROSCHNER
Photo Editor
ANNETTE KO
Art Editor
WILL CRICHTON
Systems Manager
LINDA JU
Advertising Manager
DESIREE XU
Business Manager
JONATHAN LEUNG
Asst. Photo Editor
WILLIAM PARK
Asst. Forum Editor
JULIA YANG
Asst. Copy Manager
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
Asst. News Editor
BROOKE KUEI
Asst. SciTech Editor
LAURA SCHERB
Asst. Pillbox Editor
JONATHAN CARREON
Contributing Editor
ALLISON COSBY *
Contributing Editor
JENNIFER COLOMA *
Publisher
JOSH SMITH *
Editor-in-Chief
BRADEN KELNER
Forum Editor 
EVAN KAHN
Copy Manager
JUSTIN MCGOWN
Online Editor
CHLOE THOMPSON *
Personnel Manager
BRENT HEARD*
Staffwriter
Compiled by Jonathan Carreon
We like to explore Pittsburgh before we become too busy with classes. So we asked,
Where in Pittsburgh do you like to go in your free time?
August 19, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/forum  A5A4  thetartan.org/forum The Tartan  August 19, 2013
Carnegie Mellons Software Engineering Institute released a study on 
July 31 that details the recent efforts 
by IBM to update and modernize 
Pennsylvanias computer systems. 
According to the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, the program is over 42 months 
behind schedule and has cost the 
state $166.9 million, over 56 percent 
more than the originally planned 
contract price. 
As a result of the study, the state 
of Pennsylvania will not renew the 
contract with IBM.
The fact that Carnegie Mellon 
was chosen by Pennsylvania legislators to conduct this study is an 
indication of the universitys reputation as a premiere computer science 
and engineering school. Legislators 
should continue to consult experts 
in the ?eld to make more informed 
decisions about such ventures.
This is hardly the ?rst instance 
of a massive project failure in a government effort. From 2000 to 2005, 
the Federal Bureau of Investigation 
developed a Virtual Case File application, which updated the FBIs 
information infrastructure from 
paper-based forms and documents to 
a more modern, digital solution. 
According to the Gallup Business 
Journal, the project was cancelled 
for being unusable in real-world scenarios, and cost U.S. taxpayers $100 
million.
Experts can objectively assess 
projects and scrap the wasteful 
ones before they become problematic. Perhaps further partnerships 
between educators, experts, and 
legislators can diagnose issues even 
earlier in the project development 
process, saving time and taxpayer 
money and ensuring the integrity of 
projects. For example, the University 
of Pittsburgh, equipped with one of 
the nations largest medical complexes, UPMC, could be consulted in 
matters such as healthcare reform or 
narcotics legislation.
These partnerships are vital to 
smart public policy developing and 
avoiding major ?nancial waste. Had 
the SEI been brought on to evaluate 
the computer system development 
earlier, perhaps less money would 
have been wasted due to inef?cient 
and unsuccessful projects.
Olympic committee must take stand for gay rights
University experts can help states decrease waste
First-years should capitalize on student club options
There are over 280 student organizations on campus recognized by 
the student government, each with 
members working to create something different. The campus organizations range from theater groups 
like No Parking Players to serviceoriented ones like 1000plus to those 
that publish student work like readme. Each organization has its own 
social personality and level of commitment, and represents a unique 
student interest.
Finding the right niche can be pivotal in building strong foundations 
for a students four-year academic 
career. 
The doorway to this niche is often found in campus organizations, 
especially at a university where students channel their passions through 
extracurricular activities just as 
strongly as through their studies. 
First-year students must not hesitate 
to explore these organizations in order to ?nd their niche.
Some students might ?nd the 
right organizations for them immediately, but many do not. Clubs are 
an invaluable resource for forming 
bonds with others who may not share 
academic interests. They also allow 
students to become deeply involved 
in something that they are passionate about  besides their majors.
Students can try organizations 
with the option to join when something sparks their interest, or leave if 
the experience fails to live up to their 
expectations. 
Many students use the Activities 
Fair and initial group meetings to decide if they will enjoy organizations, 
but students should also feel comfortable talking to those in leadership positions  maybe even taking 
on important roles themselves  to 
decide whether or not the organization is a good ?t.
The ?rst year of college is a time 
for exploration  not only in coursework, but in the bonds students can 
pursue outside the classroom. Its 
true an initial commitment to an organization does not mean a permanent commitment. However, the permanent commitments that students 
eventually make are sure to greatly 
impact their lives at Carnegie Mellon 
and beyond.
Braden Kelner/Forum Editor
The Olympic games are designed 
to bring people of every color, creed, 
and belief together through the 
shared experiences of sport and 
competition. Hosting these games is 
an honor for the host country, and 
the International Olympic Committee (IOC) takes many factors into 
consideration when deciding on a 
city. However, given the lack of action taken by the IOC with regard 
to current laws in Russia, where this 
years winter games will be held in 
the city of Sochi, it seems that human rights were not a priority during 
this process.
After the fall of the Soviet Union, 
it seemed that gay rights might be 
positively addressed in Russia when 
the Duma, Russias parliament, repealed a law from the old regime 
outlawing the act of homosexual 
intercourse. However, two decades 
later in Putins Russia, the gay rights 
movement and LGBT Russians face 
a new round of threats and persecution.
At the end of June, the Duma 
unanimously passed a law that bans 
exposing those under the age of 18 
to gay propaganda. Any form of 
advocacy for LGBT rights in public, 
or anywhere a minor may access it 
without a warning about age appropriateness  including the Internet 
 carries with it the possibility of 
jail time and thousands of dollars 
in ?nes. Foreigners face immediate 
deportation for the same offenses. 
The term propaganda in this case 
includes the direct promotion of homosexual relations among minors, 
according to Russian news agency 
Ria Novosti.
This law comes at a time when 
LGBT members of the Russian community are in particular need of 
protection from the government, as 
pro-gay protesters are frequently violently beaten and harassed by other 
Russian citizens during gay-pride 
events, according to independent 
news organization Mother Jones. 
Some Russian lawmakers say that 
the laws that inspired those protests 
and led to those beatings will be fully 
enforced in Sochi during the Winter 
Games, according to The Huf?ngton 
Post.
The IOC has offered little comment on the matter, and while the 
Russian government has said it will 
not prevent gay athletes from taking 
part in the games, what ability these 
athletes will have to speak on their 
rights remains unclear. 
The IOCs lack of commentary is 
troubling, especially after the creation of the Pride House in the Olympic Villages of the 2010 Vancouver 
Games and the 2012 London Games, 
which provided a place for LGBT individuals involved in the Olympics 
to share their experiences and help 
educate visitors about the issues in 
their communities.
It is discouraging to see the IOC 
remain silent on an important human rights issue in a country hosting 
the games. This event will help raise 
the prestige of the Russian Federation at a time when it is mistreating 
a large minority group deserving of 
protection.
Positivity of campus 
cashier will be missed
ELANA GOLDBERG
Junior Staffwriter
Taneya Morris, one of Carnegie 
Mellons most beloved CulinArt employees, was dismissed in late May. 
As much of the student body laments her dismissal, I know I speak 
for most when I say I will sincerely 
miss her bubbly personality and colorful nail polish this year as someone else swipes my blocks at Pasta 
Villaggio or rings up my afternoon 
caffeine ?x at Entropy+.
Morris was the sunshine of campus food  an invaluable CulinArt 
employee with a positive energy unmatched by others. 
She knew a large number of students by their ?rst names, and even 
knew their descent or celebrity doppelganger, although her notes were 
not always spot on.
According to Morris, my name 
was Elaina, I was fresh from the 
Middle East, and my petite blond 
roommate looked just like a white 
Kim Kardashian.
When I approached her register 
between classes, she always greeted 
me with a smile and something like, 
Hey Elaina, hows your day going? I 
feel like I havent seen you in forever. 
Your hair has gotten so long! Youre 
just so exotic looking. Hows your 
roommate?
Even though she had been swiping my DineX for two years, I never 
had the heart to tell Morris that 
my name was pronounced with an 
ah in the middle, that my ancestry could not be farther from Arabia, and that my roommate frankly 
didnt look like Kim.
Our interactions simply made 
me laugh. They calmed my frantic 
afternoons and added a spark of fun 
to my rushed coffee runs between 
classes, but I was always afraid that 
she would be devastated if I told her 
two years after our ?rst meeting that 
all of our interactions were based on 
a lie. I looked forward to our Entropy+ interactions too much to break 
the routine.
As I left for class, I often heard 
her greet the person behind me 
in line with the same enthusiasm: 
How are you doing today, sweetheart? followed by the students 
name and a sincere compliment. 
She made each students day, one 
interaction at a time.
I was too caught up in knowing 
that Morris actually cared about me 
and the other students on campus 
to correct her errors. While I have 
never encountered an outright cruel 
CulinArt employee, Morris set herself apart with her ability to truly 
connect with students. Most employees dont make the same effort 
to interact with students the way 
Morris did, unless you count asking 
whether a meal will be paid for with 
a block or DineX.
But now that she is gone, did 
my neglect to correct her about my 
name or ancestry even matter?
As I try to imagine a post-Morris 
CulinArt, I envision a world in which 
George Orwells 1984 meets a postzombie apocalypse era: a manifest 
of caffeinated students mechanically hunkering through Entropy+, 
somewhat lost even though they 
are in a familiar place, as if they are 
wandering through an old home 
without sunlight.
As the student body wanders 
through the new campus dining 
darkness, it will be hard not to miss 
the way Morris made our days sunny with her bubbly persona, smilestretching compliments, and most 
importantly, her natural ability to 
bond with students unlike any other 
employee.
Amir Jahanbin
Architecture
Senior
The Strip District.
KAVITA MEHTA
Junior Staffwriter
Last month, a jury of six women 
acquitted George Zimmerman of 
second-degree murder and manslaughter, after claiming self-defense against 17-year-old Trayvon 
Martin in Sanford, Fla. on Feb 26, 
2012. 
The ruling prompted protests, 
rallies, and marches on the issue of 
race across the United States. Although racial issues have surfaced 
amid the Zimmerman trial, U.S. 
citizens need to look at the nations 
future, rather than its past, to ensure 
that similarly tragic events do not 
occur again.
President Obama questioned 
the public in a surprise speech on 
July 19, asking, How do we learn 
some lessons from this and move 
in a positive direction? One of his 
best responses was to have governors, the Justice Department, and 
mayors work with law enforcement 
to examine if certain state and local laws encourage incidents similar to the Zimmerman and Martin 
confrontation.
When considering the future, 
Floridas stand-your-ground law 
and similar laws need to be revisited. Zimmerman did not directly use 
the stand-your-ground law in his defense, but it was cited during the trial. Essentially, this law allows people 
to defend themselves with a ?rearm 
if they believe someone is trying to 
harm them. Some organizations, 
such as the Dream Defenders  a 
student-led group occupying Florida Governor Rick Scotts of?ce to 
protest the stand-your-ground law, 
according to CNN  have already 
begun requesting change, although 
the group ended the occupation of 
his of?ce on Aug. 15. 
Similarly, Brooklyn dance group 
Dancing for Action (DFA) successfully held a ?ash mob outside of Senator Chuck Schumers New York of?ce on Aug. 14, requesting an end to 
the law, according to NewsOne.com.
If the stand-your-ground law and 
similar laws are not repealed or reconsidered after this catastrophic 
event, society will believe that it is 
still acceptable to use ?rearms even 
when a confrontation can be avoided by a perpetrator. Citizens should 
not be able to initiate a confrontation with the knowledge that they 
have the upper hand already, such 
as legal and personal reasons to ?re 
a gun.
Society must now learn from this 
devastating event by executing appropriate actions, such as reconsidering controversial laws, to prevent 
a similar occurrence in the future. 
As Obama stated, the most ef?cient 
and effective action that can now be 
taken is to have federal, state, and 
local lawmakers work together to investigate whether certain laws allow 
behavior comparable to that exhibited in the Zimmerman and Martin 
incident.
Nick Stanley
Cognitive Science
Junior
Any of the parks around 
Pittsburgh.
Joanna Latini
Vocal Performance
Junior
The Cultural District.
Francisco Rojo
ECE
Sophomore
South Side.
Matthew Briselli
Chinese Studies, Chemistry
Sophomore
As far away from campus as 
possible.
Church may not preach tolerance like the Pope
ELI ZOGHLIN
Junior Staffwriter
For those striving to create a better world for LGBT people, the Catholic Church has stood as both a physical and symbolic obstacle. With 
1.2 billion members (according to 
a study by the Catholic Near East 
Welfare Association) looking to the 
Pope and the Vatican for religious 
guidance, the Church is a powerful 
force when it comes to social issues. 
It is dif?cult for the gay rights movement to gain traction among people 
whose spiritual leaders, while they 
no longer view homosexuals as expressly evil, still see the homosexual 
lifestyle as a surrender to an intrinsically immoral urge and a perversion 
of Gods will.
 However, it appears that Pope 
Francis desires a change. Speaking 
on rumors of a gay lobby in the Vatican, Pope Francis stated in late July 
that, If a person is gay and seeks 
God and has good will, who am I to 
judge? according to the Los Angeles 
Times. Such a statement from Pope 
Francis shows an unprecedented 
level of acceptance for homosexuals, especially coming from that 
highest Church authority. Such an 
open and clear statement from Pope 
Francis reveals his willingness to 
break from the formal conservatism 
of the Churchs views  at least on 
homosexuals.
 In many ways Pope Francis seems 
like a good candidate for bringing 
change to the Church. He is already 
a pope of ?rsts, being the ?rst Jesuit 
pope and the ?rst pope to hail from 
the Southern Hemisphere, as well 
as from the Americas. Already Pope 
Francis has been lauded for bringing a sense of humility to the papacy 
and professing a desire to reach out 
to other cultures.
The election of such a man indicates that there is a possibility that 
the Vatican  and the archbishops 
and priests who comprise it  are 
changing. However, it is not certain 
that the rest of the Church hierarchy 
is quite as willing to move toward 
tolerance as Pope Francis. Additionally, while the Popes words clearly 
express a desire for tolerance, it is 
important to realize the difference 
between tolerance and acceptance. 
Pope Francis still sees homosexuality as a sin. While he may tolerate 
LGBT individuals, he does not fully 
accept them.
 The Catholic Church has never 
been known for its willingness to 
change. For example, when it comes 
to women, the Catholic Church 
professes a belief in the equality 
of sexes, and women play a major 
role in the ministry. However, the 
involvement of women stops at the 
priesthood, and the Vatican remains 
an organization dominated by men. 
The Vaticans position on women 
seems to show that the Church can 
adopt a liberal ideal while maintaining the overall status quo. Despite 
Pope Francis kind words, it is doubtful that the Church will change the 
canon on homosexuality anytime 
soon.
Within the Catholic Church, 
there is far too much organizational 
inertia for LGBT people to ?nd real 
and lasting acceptance. Hundreds of 
years of institutionalized discrimination and well-fossilized religious 
doctrine will go a long way in preventing the Vatican from embracing 
the rainbow. True change within 
Catholicism, as a religion and an organization, will come from everyday 
Catholics taking Pope Francis words 
to heart and refusing to pass judgment on the LGBT community. Pope 
Francis can be a great force to improve relations between homosexuals and the Church, but Catholics all 
over the world will have to embrace 
his message and be prepared to accept change. Without popular action, Pope Francis words will never 
translate into reality.
 Although an ideological revolution within Catholicism regarding 
the Churchs teachings on homosexuality may now be an elusive 
fantasy, the ?ght for tolerance must 
be maintained in the hope that acceptance comes with time.
Thickes song doesnt start discussion
CHLOE THOMPSON
Robin Thickes Blurred Lines 
topped the Billboard Hot 100 for 
nine weeks and counting this summer and generated a storm of controversy over the allegedly sexist nature 
of the songs lyrics and music video.
Blurred Lines has many problematic aspects, which are especially 
apparent in the explicit version of 
the music video. In this version, 
fully-clothed Robin Thicke, Pharrell 
Williams, and T.I. are surrounded 
by topless women dancing about in 
skin-colored thongs. The song may 
be more sexist than other songs pervading popular culture today, but 
more interesting about the sudden 
fame of Blurred Lines is Robin 
Thickes own reaction to the controversy. Of course an artist defends 
himself when criticized for a piece of 
his work: Thickes piece was merely 
meant to inspire conversation, 
he claimed. Its actually a feminist 
movement within itself. Its saying 
that women and men are equals as 
animals and as power, the artist said 
to NBCs Today Show.
Where is the evidence within the 
song or the video to back up this 
claim? In the refrain, Thicke repeatedly croons, I know you want it... 
but youre a good girl. In no way do 
these lyrics express the equal power 
between men and women. There is 
no indication that Thicke is unable or 
unwilling to express his own desires 
because hes a good boy. Some of 
the language also indicates that the 
woman he sings of wants sex, but 
Thicke merely operates under the assumption that she does, as evidenced 
by lyrics like The way you grab me/
Must wanna get nasty.
Thicke also told VH1 with regard to the the explicit video that 
he just wanted to break every rule 
of things youre not supposed to do 
and make people realize how silly 
some of these rules are. How does 
the song constructively oppose the 
rules of what we can and cannot do? 
A model in Thickes video clutches 
a baby goat to her naked chest, and 
at one point, Thicke pretends to inject a solution into a womans rear 
with a ?ve-foot syringe. In the ?rst 
instance, what is Thicke trying to 
say about bestiality? The image of 
a nude woman holding a goat does 
not push social boundaries or make 
us reevaluate cultural ideas. In the 
second case, the image is incredibly 
phallic, which is nothing new or different for Western media.
Blurred Lines is a pop song, 
which means that on some level, 
its meant to be light and simple. 
But Thicke himself claimed on the 
Today Show that its meant to inspire discussion, and that good art 
[is] supposed to make us talk about 
whats important. This statement is 
absolutely true  good art generates 
conversation and makes us rethink 
our cultural values. However, simply 
saying that a work is meant to inspire 
conversation after actively supporting tropes or stereotypes is cheating. 
An artist has a responsibility to engage with cultural norms and ideas, 
not simply perpetuate them.
Chloe Thompson (cet@) is personnel 
manager for The Tartan.
Obamacare doesnt care for economy
KYLE HENSON
The Affordable Care Act will 
shatter not only our hard-earned 
health bene?ts, but destroy the 40-
hour work week that is the backbone 
of the American middle class.
Sounds like typical Republican 
slander, right? Whats surprising 
about this quote is that it doesnt 
come from any right-wing nutjob, 
but from a letter penned by three of 
the nations largest labor unions: the 
International Brotherhood of Teamsters, the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union, 
and UNITE HERE. These are Democratic supporters and donors that, 
at the time of Obamacares passing, 
supported the law and, in fact, provided some of the political pressure 
that eventually secured the laws 
passage. What changed?
In a word, nothing. The economy 
didnt recover. Jobs havent been created. While unemployment has nominally fallen from 7.8 percent from 
when Obama took of?ce to the current rate of 7.4 percent now according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics 
(BLS), that number doesnt mean 
anything. If unemployment were calculated today the way it used to be  
counting the number of workers that 
have been discouraged and left the 
job market, as well as the number of 
workers who have work well below 
their skill level or can only ?nd parttime work  its actually 14.3 percent, says the BLS.
To help paint this dismal picture 
of American reality, home ownership is at an 18-year low, according 
to the United States Census Bureau; 
Labor Force Participation is at a 31 
year low, according to the BLS; and 
middle-class median income has fallen 5 percent since Obama was sworn 
in, according to Sentier Research. 
Fifteen million more Americans receive food stamps now than when 
Obama took of?ce according to the 
Department of Agriculture, and the 
poverty rate has increased from 14.3 
percent to an estimate from the Census Bureau of over 16 percent during 
Obamas reign.
After four years of recovery, the 
middle class is unequivocally worse 
off than it was at the start of the recovery, let alone before the Great Recession.
To circle back to Obamacare, the 
law is directly responsible for some 
of the middle class economic woes. 
The U-6 unemployment number 
 which counts part-time workers 
and people marginally attached to 
the labor force  is steadily rising 
according to ?gures from the BLS 
because Obamacare requires companies with 50 or more workers to 
provide health bene?ts to all workers 
working more than 30 hours a week.
Since Obamacare passed, youd 
be hard pressed to ?nd a chain restaurant worker, or any other lowskilled laborer, working more than 
30 hours a week. It makes more 
sense for companies to hire four 30-
hour employees without laying out 
for their healthcare instead of three 
40-hour employees with healthcare 
bene?ts.
Unions, the organizations responsible for putting laborers securely in 
the middle class, are understandably 
upset. 
Shockingly enough, the people 
who have bene?ted the most from 
Obamas presidency are the rich. 
From 2009 to 2010, the top 1 percent 
saw their incomes increase by 11.6 
percent while everyone elses grew 
by just 0.2 percent, according to Emmanuel Saez, professor of economics 
and director of the Center for Equitable Growth at the University of 
California, Berkeley.
This underscores a truth about 
big government known for decades. 
As former president Ronald Reagan 
put it, You cant be for big government, big taxes, big bureaucracy, and 
still be for the little guy. Big government can only serve to help special 
interests, the well-off, and the wellconnected. Obamacare exacerbates 
this problem by putting the government even more directly in control 
of healthcare, 18 percent of our nations economy. We cant expect the 
middle class to start doing any better 
than they are now until Obamacare 
is repealed.
Kyle Henson (kahenson@) is a staffwriter for The Tartan.
Stand-your-ground laws must be re-examined
Braden Kelner/Forum Editor
Annette Ko/Art Editor

---------------------------------------------------

A6  thetartan.org The Tartan  August 19, 2013
Arts & Culture
Winning season within Pirates reachArts Pass opens door to attractions
CARL GLAZER
Staffwriter
The last time the Pittsburgh 
Pirates had a winning season 
 not to mention the last time 
they made the playoffs  the 
majority of Carnegie Mellons 
current senior class had not 
yet been born. Now, 21 years 
later, the Pirates are on the 
precipice of not only their ?rst 
season over .500 in over two 
decades, but a division crown 
to match.
For the past two seasons, 
the Pirates have been toying 
with the city of Pittsburgh, 
leading the National League 
Central Division into July before crashing back to Earth 
and, ultimately, into more losing seasons. The main difference between those seasons 
and this one is the success of 
the whole team, not just the 
success of a few all-stars.
This season has seen the 
growth of the Bucs lineup surpass last years crew, which 
revolved solely around allstar center ?elder Andrew 
McCutchen and featured a 
largely inconsistent batting 
order. As a result, the Pirates 
success in the past closely relied on that of McCutchen at 
the plate. This season saw the 
maturation of several young 
Bucs, namely third baseman 
Pedro lvarez and left ?elder 
Starling Marte, with the addition of veteran catcher Russell 
Martin. These changes have 
allowed the Pirates offense to 
become more consistent and 
successful without McCutchen hitting unworldly numbers. 
lvarez and Marte are part 
of the new wave of talent that 
Pittsburgh has been developing through two decades of 
high-draft picks. In the past, 
a few of these top picks grew 
into their potential. However, 
when the time came for them 
to get paid, they were traded 
for more prospects, of which 
only one or two would hit the 
major leagues. These types 
of trades were typical of past 
Pirates management, which 
prioritized saving money over 
winning games. In 2008, with 
the introduction of an entirely 
new managing team from majority owner to general manager, the Pirates began yet another rebuilding project.
After a few years of repeating the same veteran-forprospect trading system, Clint 
Hurdle was hired as manager, and the Bucs felt they 
had ?nally amassed the right 
talent to begin pushing for 
wins. Starting with Hurdles 
inaugural season in 2011, the 
Pirates were at least discussed 
by competitors, until the Pittsburgh Steelers began training camp in the beginning 
of August. The Pirates even 
reversed their previous trade 
trends and acquired a pair of 
veteran bats at the trade deadline, but to no avail.
The 2012 off-season witnessed the beginning of the 
Pirates competitive strategy, 
with the free-agent acquisition of proven, undervalued 
veterans providing leadership 
and relieving some pressure 
for the developing youth. The 
addition of starting pitchers 
A.J. Burnett during the 2012 
off-season, Wandy Rodrguez 
at the trade deadline, and 
Francisco Liriano before the 
2013 season gave the Bucs the 
veteran start-of-the-rotation 
presence needed to truly compete for a division title, and 
possibly a World Series. All of 
these pitchers were picked up 
coming off bad seasons and 
have experienced career resurgences since their move.
These veterans, combined 
with the emergence of all-star 
Jeff Locke and former ?rstround pick Gerrit Cole, have 
given the Pirates one of the 
better starting rotations in the 
National League, even with 
Rodrguez spending a large 
chunk of the season on the 
disabled list. The Pirates bullpen has been cobbled together 
in the same fashion as the rotation, with grizzled journeyman veterans Jason Grilli and 
Mark Melancon leading up 
the bullpen, also known as 
the Shark Tank. Grilli, who 
served as the closer, recently 
went down with a strain in his 
right arm and will return just 
in time for the Pirates hopeful 
playoff run. In the meantime, 
Melancon has made the seamless transition from setup man 
to closer, and he has yet to give 
up an earned run since taking 
over the role in late July.
The Pirates are still looking to add another veteran 
bat before the Aug. 31 wavier 
trade deadline, after failing to 
do so by the nonwavier trade 
deadline of July 31. But even 
as they are  11 wins shy of 
their ?rst winning season 
in most of our lifetimes and 
three games up on the St. Louis Cardinals for the NL Central 
division lead  the Pirates appear to be making a new kind 
of history.
Learn where to ?nd your caffeine ?x before its too late
which is dedicated to the exploration of science through 
sports. It focuses on three areas. Physics of Sports explains 
the science behind athletics 
through interactive exhibits 
like the human yo-yo. LifeWorks describes the medical and nutritional aspect 
of sports. Challenge features 
more conventional sports 
activities, such as a rock wall 
and an Olympic sprint.
These two attractions are 
unique to Pittsburgh and truly de?ne hands-on learning, 
making your visit not only 
worthwhile and educational 
but also fun.
At the National Aviary, 
students can experience a 
unique zoo that exclusively 
features birds  nearly 150 
species and a total of around 
500 birds. Located on the 
North Side, the aviary (and 
its cast of adorable feathered 
friends) is a one-of-a-kind attraction.
Finally, located just across 
Flagstaff Hill from campus is 
the Phipps Conservatory and 
Botanical Gardens. A beautiful collection of some of the 
worlds most interesting ?ora 
and fauna, Phipps is a perfect 
place to slip away from campus life and relax for a few 
hours. Close to the holidays, 
the staff decks everything 
out in lights, and the spring 
?ower show features butter?ies that ?it around and 
even land on you. Unique and 
breathtaking, Phipps should 
be on everyones Pittsburgh 
to-do list.
Sometimes forgotten 
amid tests, papers, and projects, the Arts Pass program is 
a fantastic resource of which 
students should take full advantage. The venues included in this program are not 
only culturally enriching, but 
also educational. Regular admission for these attractions 
generally runs from $10 to 
$20  a price that, for many 
living the broke college-student lifestyle, would make 
these experiences too expensive to afford on a regular basis. Thanks to the Arts Pass, 
though, thats not the case.
For more information on 
the program and participating 
venues, visit studentaffairs.
cmu.edu/StudentActivities/
artspass.
CATHERINE SPENCE
Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellon is infamous for late nights, early 
mornings, and insuf?cient 
amounts of sleep, all starting 
during the week of Orientation. So whats a Carnegie 
Mellon student to do in order 
to stay awake and not miss any 
of the fun? Everyones favorite 
mild liquid stimulant  coffee 
 can be found all over campus and in the neighborhoods 
nearby. So whether its 4 a.m. 
on a Sunday and youre ?nishing a few lines of code, or you 
just need a quick pick-me-up 
before a nighttime recitation, 
Carnegie Mellon can offer an 
abundance of choices to satisfy that caffeine craving.
Skibo Caf (University Center, second ?oor)
Since coffee isnt listed on 
the main Skibo menu, there 
are fewer coffee orders to ?ll. 
The fewer the orders, the more 
likely youll end up with a halfdecent cup of coffee that isnt 
totally burned. Theyve got 
your standard lattes, cappuccinos, and some nice ?avor shots 
like vanilla and hazelnut. The 
beans are ground after you 
order, so the coffee typically 
tastes pretty good. If its really 
busy, the person making your 
coffee might be in too much 
of a rush to properly warm up 
your milk. Just ask; the staff 
will rectify the situation, and 
Skibo has some of the nicest 
staff of all the campus dining 
locations. Just dont show up 
on a Friday or Saturday night. 
Rating: 3/5
Carnegie Mellon Caf (Resnik House, ?rst ?oor)
Another eatery that tends 
to run out of coffee at key 
times during the day  breakfast, lunch, and dinner, for example  the Caf serves black 
Starbucks coffee in three different sizes. If you happen to 
catch a fresh pot, its a great 
option for a quick cup of coffee before running to class. 
Be warned, though: Since the 
Caf is predominately a place 
for food, the line can get extremely long during meal 
times. On the plus side, however, you can get your cup of 
coffee on a block: The Caf is 
one of the only dining locations that allows you to get a 
decent cup of coffee with your 
meal without an extra charge. 
Rating: 2.5/5
The Underground (Morewood Gardens, Basement)
Coffee here comes straight 
out of a silver contraption with 
a nozzle. The coffee sits in 
there until its empty and the 
staff decides to make a new 
pot. Think diner coffee, except 
you get to serve yourself, and 
sometimes there just isnt any 
coffee left. Also available is 
some sort of sugar syrup that 
is called coffee, but no one is 
really sure whether you get 
the jitters from the supposed 
caffeine or the amount of pure 
sugar coursing through your 
veins after one cup of the stuff. 
Either way, the coffee will 
leave you a bit disappointed 
and wishing youd walked just 
a little further to get a drink.
Rating: 1/5
Gingers Express (Baker 
Hall, basement, or Purnell 
Center for the Arts, ?rst 
?oor)
Unless desperation strikes, 
avoid both outlets of Gingers 
Express if you can. The location in the basement of Baker 
Hall is ?ne if youre really in 
a hurry, since there usually 
isnt much of a wait except in 
the early morning. The coffee 
is Starbucks black. Its usually 
lukewarm unless youre there 
right after its made. The muf?ns and other snack offerings 
are somehow so greasy they 
could stain a shirt, and so dry 
you might choke if you swallow too quickly. Its de?nitely 
not a dont-miss stop for a 
cup of coffee  or anything. 
Rating: 1.5/5
La Prima Espresso (Wean 
Hall, ?fth ?oor)
La Prima is arguably one 
of the busiest places to grab a 
cup of coffee any time people 
arent sitting in class (during 
breakfast, lunch, and breaks 
between classes). But its de?-
nitely worth it. The employees 
are friendly and funny, the 
coffee options are vast, and 
its worth it to pick up a croissant, biscotti, or another treat 
if youd like something yummy 
to accompany your coffee. 
Although its not viable as a 
place to stop in a hurry, and it 
isnt open after classes ?nish 
for the day, the line past the 
bank of elevators will tell you 
that your fellow students think 
the wait is worthwhile.
Rating: 5/5
Maggie Murph Caf (Hunt 
Library, ?rst ?oor)
Although the coffee is 
nothing special, youd be 
hard-pressed to ?nd a Carnegie Mellon student who 
hasnt thanked the powers 
above for the existence of the 
Maggie Murph Caf at least 
once. Open 24 hours a day, 
?ve days a week, the Maggie Murph Caf has the most 
robust menu options of oncampus Starbucks coffee locations. The variety of syrups, 
specialty coffees, and madeto-order drinks means that the 
line is long during peak times 
like breaks between classes, 
but youll be able to get what 
you want. Its also the best 
location to bond with other 
sleep-deprived students and 
caf employees any weeknight 
after 3 a.m.
Rating: 3.5/5
Tazza DOro (Gates Center, 
third ?oor)
Arguably the best stop on 
campus for an iced or hot beverage, an ever-changing and 
amusing playlist, and totally 
hipster baristas, Tazza DOro is 
certainly not to be missed for 
anyone seeking a made-justfor-you cup of the good stuff. 
Its one of the few spots on 
campus that isnt run by CulinArt and doesnt serve Starbucks coffee, and there are 
plenty of cool  albeit bizarre 
 brightly colored seating options even after the caf is no 
longer open. Maybe someday 
our beloved Tazza will stay 
open to serve the late-night 
coders all over Gates every 
night of the week.
Rating: 5/5
The Zebra Lounge (College 
of Fine Arts Building, ?rst 
?oor)
A stop at the Zebra Lounge, 
which offers your typical Starbucks hot coffee options, is 
worth it for the ambiance and 
dcor. True to its name, the 
Zebra Lounge has plenty of 
zebra-patterned seats, tables, 
and other accents, and boasts 
a decent range of coffee accompaniments like donuts and 
sweet breads. If you grab a cup 
of coffee during an off-peak 
time, like the mid-morning 
lull between the breakfast and 
lunch rushes, its a nice place 
to enjoy a leisurely cup of coffee in peace. With no windows 
except high overhead, the location is a nice escape from 
campus if thats what you 
need.
Rating: 3/5
Bagel Factory (420 S. Craig 
St.)
Just a few blocks down the 
road from campus, the Bagel 
Factory is a favorite eatery 
of Carnegie Mellon students, 
University of Pittsburgh students, and Oakland residents 
alike for its yummy variety 
of breakfast and lunch fare, 
full range of coffee options, 
and abundance of other fresh 
treats. Although frequently 
busy  sometimes packed 
from wall to wall  the Bagel 
Factory has some of the best 
off-campus coffee thats still 
within walking distance from 
most dorms on campus.
Rating: 5/5
Starbucks, Craig St. (417 S 
Craig St.)
Although Carnegie Mellon 
offers Starbucks coffee, the actual Starbucks outlet on Craig 
Street typically has better and 
fresher-tasting coffee than its 
on-campus counterpart. Also 
a very busy spot for local college students, Pittsburgh residents, and people visiting the 
museums or colleges nearby, if 
youre craving a cup of coffee 
that tastes the same no matter where you go, Starbucks is 
a safe choice. But unless you 
get lucky or arrive at some 
off-peak time of day (which is 
extremely unlikely), its nearly 
impossible to ?nd a seat in the 
too-small indoor seating area, 
and theres no outdoor seating. Head across the street 
and sit outside the Carnegie 
Museum of Art if its a sunny 
day and youd like to enjoy the 
fresh air away from campus 
for a little while, or get your 
coffee to go. 
Rating: 4/5
Pitcher Jason Grilli  known as The Grill and Grilled Cheese  has 
been out recently due to a strain in his right arm.
The Carnegie Museum of Natural History, located adjacent to the 
Carnegie Museum of Art and the Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh in 
Oakland, is one of many museums that students can visit for free 
thanks to the Arts Pass program.
Courtesy of Sports Crazy via Flickr
MUSEUMS, from A1
Jonathan Carreon/Contributing Editor
Tazza DOro is a student favorite. Located on the third ?oor of the Gates Center, it offers great coffee and food, 
and is extremely crowded during lunch hours. Be sure to get there early if you want a table.
Jonathan Carreon/Contributing Editor

---------------------------------------------------

August 19, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org  A7
Pittsburgh concert venues attract popular musical acts
JOEY PEISER
Staffwriter
Looking to take in some 
live music during your time 
at Carnegie Mellon? Heres a 
breakdown of the more frequented venues Pittsburgh 
has to offer.
Stage AE
Located between Heinz 
Field and PNC Park, Stage AE 
is a pretty standard venue. The 
acts booked there are usually 
moderately priced ($30$50) 
and well known. The indoor 
hall is divided into ?oor and 
balcony areas, both of which 
are typically for standing audiences only. The venue is nicely 
sized; even back at the bar, 
you have a good view of the 
stage. It boasts a second outdoor stage for warm weather, 
also sizable.
Coming from campus, 
Stage AE can be a bit of a pain 
to get to by bus: You have to 
take a 61 to Downtown, and 
then take a bridge over the 
Allegheny River. When the 
weathers warm this is a pretty 
pleasant experience, but it can 
be uncomfortable when Pittsburgh begins its deep freeze.
Altar Bar
Located in the Strip District, the Altar Bar is small  
very small  but thats one of 
its strong suits. There is very 
little separation between the 
audience and the artist; the 
stage is small and low, and 
there isnt a no mans land 
inhabited by angry bouncers. 
The venue is also a renovated 
church, with an upstairs balcony with tables and chairs 
where you can sit and relax.
The Altar Bar is also relatively easy to get to by bus: If 
you take a 54, youre left off 
about a block from the front 
door. If you take a 61, the walk 
is a little longer, but it still gets 
you there. The shows are inexpensive (rarely over $30 and 
often much, much cheaper) 
and its a beautiful place, so 
de?nitely catch a show there 
if you get the chance.
Rex Theater
Located in the South Side, 
shows at the Rex are cheap 
(usually $10-$30) and can go 
until 2 a.m. The venue is just 
big enough to pack in a goodsized crowd (around 500), 
but small enough that even in 
the far back, youre closer to 
the stage than you would be if 
you tried to ?ght your way to 
the front at Stage AE. Its also 
easy to get there by bus: The 
54 drops you right in front. Go 
see a show at the Rex if you 
can. You wont regret it (unless the artist youre seeing 
isnt good, in which case its 
not the Rexs fault).
Consol Energy Center
I admit I havent seen a concert at Consol, but I did go to a 
Penguins game there. Consol 
follows the standard model of 
massive, 20,000-person arenas. Enjoy watching the video 
screen and emptying your 
wallet for a bottle of Dasani. 
That being said, there is something pretty amazing about 
being part of a massive crowd: 
When I saw Jimmy Buffett 
play Madison Square Garden, 
I was awestruck at the sight of 
so many inebriated men and 
women of all ages, dressed in 
Hawaiian shirts belting along 
to Margaritaville.
Upcoming shows, Fall 2013
Stage AE
9/6  Darius Rucker
9/13  Rancid
9/18   Govt Mule
9/21   The XX
Altar Bar
9/3  Starfucker
9/11  Mayer Hawthorne
9/13   Flume
9/19  Saves the Day
9/26  Danny Brown
9/28   Baths
Rex Theater
9/5  Gramatik
9/7  Papadosio
9/12  One More Time
9/18  Enter the Haggis
9/21  Lettuce
CONSOL Energy Center
9/8  Muse
9/20  Michael Bubl
10/11  Pearl Jam
10/18  Drake
All Star Weekend performs at the Altar Bar, one of Pittsburghs popular 
concert venues that is located in the Strip District.
Sophia Chang/Junior Photographer
Left: Stage AE hosts some of the biggest concerts in the city, drawing 
huge crowds to their indoor and outdoor stages.
Above: Walk the Moon performs at the Altar Bar in the Strip District.
Josh Smith/Editor in Chief
Courtesy of  James A Baron via Flickr

---------------------------------------------------

A8  thetartan.org The Tartan  August 19, 2013
j
k
l
m
n
op
q
ALLISON COSBY
Contributing Editor
LAURA SCHERB
Assistant Pillbox Editor
Youve of?cially arrived at college. While youll be busy the 
next few days getting to know the campus that will be your 
home for the next four or ?ve years, its also important to explore outside of the Carnegie Mellon bubble. Pittsburgh is a 
wonderfully diverse city with lots to offer, especially to college 
students. Read on for an overview of neighborhoods of Pittsburgh that we here at The Tartan dont think you should miss.
An explorers guide to Pittsburgh neighborhoods
STRIP DISTRICT
Vibe: An eclectic mix of just about everything Pittsburgh 
has to offer.
Favorite eats: For brunch, try Delucas, a cheaper and 
homier version of student favorite Pamelas Diner. If youre 
looking to splurge on a nice dinner, Bar Marco has you covered. Recently named one of Bon Apptits 50 best new restaurants in 2013, Bar Marcos menu is constantly changing and 
always full of delicious surprises. On a related note, de?nitely 
go there when you turn 21; the only things better than their 
food are their cocktails.)
Favorite attraction: The weekend markets are the main attraction for the Strip. The neighborhoods streets are bustling 
in the morning hours with crowds of people stopping in boutique shops and at sidewalk vendors. The Strip is also home 
to one of Pittsburghs most popular concert venues, a churchturned-club called Altar Bar.
To get there: Making the trip can be a challenge, but if you 
time it right, the 54 from N. Craig Street and Fifth Avenue will 
take you straight there.
j
LAWRENCEVILLE
Vibe: A young, hip community where youll probably bump 
into a Carnegie Mellon art professor or two.
Favorite eats: The best Italian restaurant in Pittsburgh, 
Piccolo Forno, is located in the heart of Lawrenceville and is a 
great choice for an adventurous date  where the adventure 
would be getting there via public transportation. If youre in 
the mood for a great hot dog, check out Franktuary, where you 
have myriad choices for your hot dog  or veggie dog. We recommend trying it Pittsburgh style, with a smooshed pierogi 
and slaw.
Favorite attraction: For a night of good, clean fun, try Arsenal Bowling Lanes. Think of it as your favorite bowling place 
as a kid, except its actually cool and geared toward adults. Every year they put up some intense Halloween decorations, so 
we recommend heading over there then. Bowling aside, Lawrenceville is just a great area to spend an afternoon. With lots 
of great shops and wonderful coffee at Espresso a Mano, its 
well worth the hassle of getting over there to spend a quaint 
weekend afternoon.
To get there: Biking there is your best bet, but it is possible 
to get there by bus. Youll have to transfer buses or walk a bit, 
so we recommend pulling this one up on your smart phone.
k
EAST LIBERTY
Vibe: Trendy, up-and-coming neighborhood with all of the 
necessities.
Favorite eats: East Liberty has lots of great food options, 
from grocery stores to restaurants. With Whole Foods, Trader 
Joes, and Giant Eagle all within walking distance of each other, your grocery needs are covered here. For a night out, try 
BRGR, an awesome burger joint complete with heavenly milkshakes. If youre in the mood for barbecue, check out Union 
Pig and Chicken, where youll be seated at picnic-style tables, 
and where in one sitting youll eat enough food for an entire 
week. Or now that youve been warned, youll just have really 
great leftovers.
Favorite attraction: East Liberty is also home to the nearest Target, and which is convenient for getting dorm, apartment, and school supplies. The East Liberty Presbyterian 
Church is also worth a visit; its huge tower can be seen from 
miles away and it remains at the heart of the neighborhood, 
even as all the run-down buildings around it are converted to 
upscale shopping and of?ce complexes.
To get there: Take the 71 A, B, or C or the 75 bus from N. 
Craig Street and Fifth Avenue.
l
BLOOMFIELD
Vibe: The Little Italy of Pittsburgh.
Favorite eats: Bloom?eld has tons of amazing bakeries and 
Italian restaurants to check out, including Alexanders Italian 
Bistro, Sanchioli Brothers Bakery, and Paddy Cake Bakery. Go 
hungry and go often.
Favorite attraction: Also home to numerous art galleries, 
Bloom?eld is where much of the Penn Avenue Art Walk, which 
happens every ?rst Friday of the month, takes place. While the 
neighborhood is well worth a visit on any given day, the art 
walks really bring the community to life.
To get there: Though its close enough to walk on a nice 
day, Bloom?eld is also reachable by hopping on the 54 from 
Fifth Avenue and N. Craig Street.
m
SHADYSIDE
Vibe: A chic, clean neighborhood with trendy shops. 
Favorite eats: For a cheap burger, check out Stackd, a 
burger joint where you build your own burger from the bun 
up. For a nicer evening out, head across the street to Girasole, 
a fabulous Italian restaurant with a classy, old-world vibe. If 
sushi is your thing, Umi is your place. Located on Ellsworth 
Avenue, this restaurant is known for its fresh, delicious sushi.
Favorite attraction: Walnut Street itself is worth the short 
trip to Shadyside. This spot has nearly every kind of shopping 
you could desire, from the Apple Store to Banana Republic to 
Francescas Collections. Take a walk down the street for window shopping, coffee, and some delicious gelato.
To get there: Hop on any of the outbound 71 buses from 
Fifth and Morewood avenues. Or you could walk down Fifth 
Avenue and turn down S. Aiken Avenue. Its pretty close.
n
SQUIRREL HILL
Vibe: A less expensive, quirkier version of Shadyside.
Favorite eats: For the best pizza in all of Pittsburgh, head 
to Mineos Pizza House on Murray Avenue. Then, if you still 
have room, check out Gulliftys for delicious desserts. These local favorites are small and quaint but will blow you away with 
their delectable goodies. For a classic, quality dinner before a 
movie, check out the Murray Avenue Grill; their French fries 
are to die for. 
Favorite attraction: The old-timey and intimate Squirrel 
Hill movie theater  the Manor Theatre  is the perfect place 
to check out a new movie in a building with a fantastically vintage vibe. Its nestled among just about every kind of restaurant you could dream of, so its easy to make a night of it.
To get there: Grab an outbound 61 from the corner of Morewood Avenue and Forbes Avenue, then jump off at Forbes and 
Murray avenues. Youll be in the heart of Squirrel Hill in no 
time.
o
OAKLAND
Vibe: A tried and true college community.
Favorite eats: For breakfast, head to Pamelas; there is no 
contest for a better, greasier, more satisfying breakfast. When 
it comes time for lunch, if youre somehow hungry after that 
huge breakfast, head over to Primantis for a signature Pittsburgh favorite. For dinner, come back toward Carnegie Mellon 
and dine outside at The Porch at Schenley Plaza. With a hip but 
mature ambiance, its the perfect dinner for an evening out. 
Favorite attraction: The Carnegie complex includes three 
amazing and free venues, all of which you should take advantage. First off is the Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh, which 
has not only every book, magazine, or movie you could desire, but also a multitude of free events to attend. The Carnegie Museums of Art and Natural History are next on the list: 
Theyre both free with your ID and packed with interesting and 
thought-provoking material. Best of all, you dont even need a 
bus to get there. 
To get there: Hop on either an inbound 61 from Forbes and 
Morewood avenues or an inbound 71 from Morewood Avenue 
and Fifth Avenue. Or just walk  its practically in your backyard.
p
SOUTH SIDE
Vibe: A vibrant shopping center and party place.
Favorite eats: The famous Buca di Beppo is a fun trip, especially for a big group. This quirky, almost cheesy Italian restaurant serves good food family style. Youll be full of pasta 
before you can say Mamma Mia. For an especially awkward 
and hilarious dining experience, ask to sit in the Pope room, 
where a bust of the Pope watches you eat. 
Favorite attraction: Station Square is a must-see for anyone who is going to call Pittsburgh home for the next four 
years. Head there for the Cheesecake Factory, trendy shopping, beautiful fountains and gardens, and a short walk to the 
rivers edge. 
To get there: This ones a little harder. Grab an inbound 
61 bus from Forbes and Morewood avenues, and get off at 
Sixth Avenue and Wood Street. From there, walking across the 
Smith?eld Street Bridge will put you off at W. Carson Street, 
right in Station Square.
q
