Carnegie Mellons student newspaper since 1906
thetartan.org
@thetartan
April 7, 2014
Volume 108, Issue 23
Glasner, Ray elected as SBP, SBVP
BRENT HEARD
Contributing Editor
Student government election results were released on 
Monday, March 31. Junior 
electrical and computer engineering and business administration double major Ian 
Glasner was elected student 
body president (SBP) and junior biological sciences major Shalini Ray was elected 
student body vice president 
(SBVP). 
Additionally, the student 
body voted sophomore electrical and computer engineering major Divya Kothandapani as student body vice 
president for ?nance (SBVPF) 
and sophomore computer science and math double major 
Jack Michalak as student 
body vice president for organizations (SBVPO).
Student voter turnout 
showed a slight increase over 
previous years, with 17.9 percent of total students voting. 
32.21 percent of undergraduate students cast their votes, 
as compared to 30 percent in 
2013. Graduate student voting decreased, however, with 
only 3.32 percent of Carnegie 
Mellons graduate population 
voting, a small drop from the 
3.94 percent who voted in 
2013.
Glasner and Ray ran their 
SBP/SBVP ticket on a platform of getting students more 
involved in their representation, promising to push for a 
number of reforms including 
restructuring dining plans to 
be more desirable to upperclassmen and changing the 
schools dorm alcohol policy 
to one which uses an internal 
system rather than one which 
involves the police, similar 
to the system currently in 
place at all eight Ivy League 
universities.
While not designating 
one policy as a top priority, 
Glasner said, Im very passionate about dining, and Im 
also passionate about looking 
into the current alcohol policy 
on campus.
I think every change that I 
want to happen is going to be 
a years process, if not more, 
Glasner continued. So, getting them all started at the beginning of the year is going to 
mean weekly meetings with 
administration, bringing students on board, and getting 
student feedback.
Kothandapani campaigned 
on her experience serving on 
the universitys Joint Funding 
Committee (JFC) and promised to provide an easier-tounderstand budget process 
for student organizations.
Kothandapani said that 
starting the application for 
next years JFC reps would 
be her ?rst task when taking 
of?ce, and spoke about the 
number of votes she received, 
saying it feels really good to 
have that support.
Michalak built his campaign around a set of reforms 
beginning with the organization recognition process, 
setting up a better system 
for student organizations to 
receive advice, and creating  
an improved system for room 
registration. Michalak also 
spoke of supporting broader 
campus reforms, such as expanding the Amnesty International policy for alcohol to include drugs, and the prospect 
of establishing gender-neutral 
restrooms.
Michalak recalled the 
wishes of current SBVPO 
Corrine Rockoff. She really 
wanted someone with the 
experience to take over the 
Khan lectures about online educationCMU discontinues Culbertsons 70-419GEORGE LEDERMAN
Staffwriter
Students, faculty and staff 
jostled to get into Rashid Auditorium to hear a talk by Sal 
Khan, founder of Khan Academy, Thursday morning. Ten 
minutes before the speech 
was scheduled to begin, the 
250-seat auditorium was 
standing room only  it was 
so crowded that the University Police closed the doors, 
barring additional spectators 
to prevent a ?re hazard.
Determined to see Khan, 
many students looked in 
through the window instead, 
like Robert Buarque de Macedo, a sophomore physics major, who said that seeing Khan 
was amazing after hearing his 
voice so often in Khan Academy videos. Khan helped 
me through high school, 
Macedo said, although he 
had never met Khan nor seen 
him in person before. Aatish 
Nayak, a ?rst-year electrical 
and computer engineering 
major, added, Its crazy that 
[Khan] makes his own videos; 
it shows his dedication.
Khans videos, which now 
form the basis of the website 
Khan Academy, have become 
enormously popular, with 
more than 10 million students 
viewing them each month.
Khan is, in many ways, an 
accidental educator. While 
working for a hedge fund, his 
family was visiting and he 
learned that his cousin Nadia 
was struggling in math. I told 
her, Look, I think youre fully 
capable of this  if youre 
willing to  well work on the 
phone everyday,  Khan said. 
Starting in August 2004, Khan 
worked with her on her math 
skills while he lived in Boston 
and she lived in New Orleans.
Khans belief that everyone 
can succeed if given the right 
education drives much of his 
work.
Nadia rapidly progressed 
in her school from slow 
math to an advanced track 
 her success inspired other 
family members to ask Khan 
for tutoring help. Khan, who 
has a background in software, 
started writing quizzes for 
his students to take and was 
mentoring as many as 10 family members at once. A friend 
recommended to Khan that 
he prerecord his lessons and 
load them onto YouTube so he 
could scale to more students.
Khan was apprehensive 
at ?rst, saying, Thats a horrible idea. YouTube is for cats 
playing the piano. But after 
a month of using the YouTube 
videos, his cousins told him 
that they preferred the videos 
over the video chats.
It soon became clear that 
people who were not my cousins were watching the videos. 
Most of the comments were 
just Thank you which is a 
pretty big deal. I dont know 
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
News Editor
When Carnegie Mellon 
released its Fall 2014 course 
listings last Sunday, some 
Carnegie Mellon students 
noticed that something was 
missing  70-419 Entrepreneurship Practicum: Apprentice, a course taught by 
Robert F. Culbertson, adjunct 
assistant professor of entrepreneurship in the Tepper 
School of Business.
Culbertsons course was 
an outlier in Teppers entrepreneurship offerings, and 
gave students hands-on lessons in entrepreneurship. 
According to Michael McDermott, a junior materials science and engineering 
and biomedical engineering 
double major and a teaching 
assistant for the course, the 
course was broken down into 
four to ?ve apprenticeships, 
which are different projects, 
usually in groups and ranging 
from two weeks to a month 
long, that students complete.
The ?rst one, McDermott 
said, was always karaoke. 
Students had to break into 
groups and sing in front of 
the class, because most of 
us have terrible voices, and 
just look and sound terrible 
in front of the class when 
were doing it, McDermott 
said. That primes you to 
work with other people and 
be comfortable with being 
uncomfortable.
After that, McDermott 
said, the course focused on 
selling products and getting funding from venture 
capitalists. 
For the ?nal apprenticeship, Culbertson gave each 
group of students a seed 
fund and asked them simply 
to make as much money as 
possible, which, McDermott 
said, is the heart of entrepreneurship.
McDermott is also author 
of a change.org petition to 
Save RF Culbertson and 70-
419, which currently has 579 
signatures. According to the 
petition, By signing this petition, we as students stand together to save one of the most 
in?uential classes taught 
here at Carnegie Mellon, and 
to save the man who has given so much to this school and 
its students.
McDermott has reached 
out to the administration of 
the Tepper School of Business, focusing on how the 
loss of Culbertsons course 
affects not only current students but future students, as 
well as alumni relations.
We just want to highlight 
 whether the course gets 
reinstated or not  the customer at CMU; if we talk in 
terms of sales, the customer 
is a student. And so if youre 
[angering] your customer, 
Michelle Wan/Art Editor
Sal Khans Thursday morning lecture ?lled Rashid Auditorium. Khan explained how he began Khan Academy 
and discussed the possibiliites of online education. 
See EDUCATION, A3See CURRICULUM, A3
See ELECTION, A3
Slackman talks about foreign policy in the Middle East
BRADEN KELNER
Editor-in-Chief
He lived in Egypt for eight 
years  three as a correspondent for the Los Angeles Times 
and ?ve for The New York 
Times  and returned to the 
region to witness the dramatic 
con?ict in the Middle East during the Arab Spring.
Speaking before a half?lled auditorium in Porter 
Hall, now Deputy Foreign 
Editor for The New York Times 
Michael Slackman visited 
Carnegie Mellon on Tuesday 
to discuss the United Statess 
role abroad, particularly in 
the Middle East. The discussion was presented by The New 
York Times, Undergraduate 
Student Senate, and the Collegiate Readership Program.
During his discussion, 
Slackman stressed the importance of the citizens responsibility to be informed. Just 
read about the world about 
you, he said. Its what everyone in the world is ?ghting 
for right now  the people in 
Ukraine, the people in Egypt 
 you have the right to have 
that information.
Slackman told the story of 
the day he was ?red at in the 
island country of Bahrain in 
February 2011. Slackman was 
dispatched to Bahrain when a 
community of Shiite Muslims 
demanded rights from the ruling Sunni Muslim family during a series of peaceful protests. Members of the Shiite 
community were coming out 
by the tens of thousands  
hundreds of thousands  and 
they were determined to push 
for their rights, Slackman 
said during an interview with 
The Tartan.
One day, abut a thousand 
young protesters marched to 
Pearl Square in Manama, Bahrains capital.
They were ?red upon by 
the police. Slackman and his 
colleagues ran from the con?ict, but were ?red upon too. 
A helicopter ... ?ew overhead, 
and I thought we were being shot at by the helicopter, 
Slackman said. 
He ran into an alley with a 
colleague and saw the helicopter follow. And that was when 
I was like ... theyre hunting 
us. A car drove by and Slackman screamed at it before the 
driver took him away from the 
area.
Slackman told the audience, What foreign correspondents do is they bear witness. He said correspondents 
witness events so that people 
have access to information 
about the world around them 
 so that they can be responsibly informed citizens.
Being a reporter is one of 
the most thrilling and rewarding jobs you can have, Slackman said to The Tartan. It 
allows you to experience life 
through someone elses eyes ... 
to give voice to the downtrodden and the oppressed.
Slackman then turned 
the discussion to the United 
Statess involvement in the 
Middle East, as well as Crimea. 
He questioned, How much of 
See POLICY, A3
What foreign correspondents do 
is they bear witness.
Michael Slackman
Deputy Foreign Editor for The New York Times
Spring Carnival 2014 Preview: Best of the Best
Reunion Issue  Section BMidway Map  C8C9Carnival Calendar  C15
Anne-Sophie Kim/Assistant Layout Manager, design by Maggie Bignell

---------------------------------------------------

A2  thetartan.org/news The Tartan  April 7, 2014
NEWS IN BRIEFUNICEF urges CMU to believe in zero
WEATHER
Underage Drinking 
March 29, 2014
A University Police of?cer 
on patrol saw a visibly intoxicated male at the intersection 
of Forbes and Morewood Avenues. After stopping to check 
on the individual, the of?cer 
con?rmed that he was under 
21. The man, who was not 
a Carnegie Mellon af?liate, 
was cited for underage drinking and given further medical 
assistance.
Underage Drinking and 
False ID Card
March 29, 2014
University Police cited a 
Carnegie Mellon student who 
was visibly intoxicated in front 
of Hamburg Hall. At the time, 
the student presented the of?cer with a false ID card, and 
was later con?rmed to be under the legal drinking age. 
The student was cited for two 
offenses  underage drinking 
and carrying a false ID  and 
was given medical aid.
Underage Drinking 
March 30, 2014
A Carnegie Mellon student 
was cited after she passed out 
in the television lounge of 
Hamerschlag House. A security of?cer checking the area 
noticed the unconscious student and checked on her. University Police later con?rmed 
that she was under the legal 
drinking age, and transported 
the female to the hospital for 
further treatment after citing 
her for underage drinking.
University Police also cited 
a Carnegie Mellon student 
who had passed out while 
eating at Skibo Cafe. A passerby who noticed the student 
called University Police, who 
found the student slumped 
over with his face resting on 
a plate of food. The male was 
identi?ed and cited for underage drinking, and after being 
tended to by CMU EMS, was 
released in the care of a sober 
friend.
Suspicious Activity 
April 1, 2014
University Police responded to Mudge House after a 
student reported to University 
Police that at 8:55 p.m. he was 
walking on Morewood Avenue 
near Stever House when a 
gray or brown Cadillac pulled 
up next to him. According to 
the student, a black male in 
his mid-thirties or early forties rolled down the window 
and reached for the glove 
compartment, while the vehicle was at a complete stop. 
The student, who was afraid 
of being robbed, ran away and 
could not con?rm the drivers 
intention.
Underage Drinking
April 2, 2014
University Police responded to McGill House after a 
community adviser contacted 
them after hearing a party 
in the dormitory that might 
involve underage drinking. 
When the police arrived, they 
con?scated all alcohol and cited ?ve individuals for underage drinking.
Campus Crime & Incident Reports
Abhinav Gautam/Staff Photographer
Carnegie Mellons United Nations International Childrens Emergency Fund (UNICEF) wrote a large zero with white lawn ?ags last week to represent 
UNICEFs goal to believe in zero, and reduce the number of preventable child deaths around the world to zero.  
Source: www.weather.com
FEATURE PHOTO
Last week, many students 
and faculty members who 
used the restroom facilities 
in the Gates Hillman Complex noticed that the toilet 
water was markedly blue. In 
an email to many computer 
science students, Director 
of Building Facilities James 
Skees wrote that the blue toilet water was a byproduct of 
the complexs many green 
initiatives.
The complex, which is a 
gold LEED-certi?ed building, 
has a gray water system that 
collects rainwater from the 
buildings rooftops, ?lters out 
the dirt, and stores the water in a big tank on the third 
?oor until it is needed for 
?ushing urinals and toilets 
in the building, according 
to Skeess email. This cuts 
down on the surge of storm 
water ?owing into the city 
sewer system as well as limits 
our use of treated city water 
for ?ushing purposes, the 
email continues.
According to Skees, the 
water previously often had a 
cloudy or even yellow-tinted 
appearance, leading many 
restroom patrons to assume 
this means the water still has 
urine in it, either because a 
?ush didnt occur or didnt 
empty the bowl entirely, the 
email says. The Allegheny 
County Health Department, 
however, requires a dye be 
put in the gray water before 
it is sent to the restrooms, lest 
anyone try to drink the toilet 
or urinal water, thinking it is 
chlorinated and ?ltered city 
water.
When the Gates Hillman 
Complex was constructed, 
Facilities Management Services (FMS) decided to use 
yellow dye, not realizing 
how it would end up looking 
in the toilets, the email says. 
Their other option, Skees 
wrote, was to put little signs 
next to all the ?xtures which 
said something like toilet 
and urinal water is not drinkable. 
Recently, FMS decided to 
switch to blue dye in the recycled water, leading to the 
blue-tinted toilet and urinal 
water in the complex.
Blue water in GHC toilets raises questions 
Carnegie Mellon students make strong showing in annual Putnam Competition
The Mathematical Association of Americas 74th 
William Lowell Putnam 
Competition recently tested 
students on high-level creative thinking and mathematical concepts, giving over 
4,000 Canadian and U.S. undergraduate students from 
557 institutions six hours to 
solve 12 dif?cult problems. 
Carnegie Mellon placed second overall in the Putnam 
Competition, according to a 
university press release.
Thirty-?ve students 
scored among the top 10 
percent of competitors, the 
second most of any university. The only university who 
placed above Carnegie Mellon in the Putnam Competition was the Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology. This 
year is the third consecutive 
year that the Carnegie Mellon team has placed among 
the top ?ve teams, putting 
the university among only 
11 others that have placed in 
the top ?ve more than twice 
since 1990.
Although over 150 Carnegie Mellon students participated in the Putnam Competition, the of?cial team 
comprised of math majors 
sophomore Linus Hamilton, 
?rst-year Thomas Swayze, 
and junior Michael Druggan. 
All of the team members are 
Knaster-McWilliams Scholars, part of a program funded by alumni of Carnegie 
Mellons physics and electrical and computer engineering programs.
Repeated success in the 
Putnam Competition makes 
Carnegie Mellon shine like 
a beacon, showing the extreme talent that gathers 
here, said Po-Shen Loh, 
assistant professor of mathematical sciences and the 
teams coach, in the press release. It is our hope that by 
bringing ambitious students 
together, they can work with 
each other to achieve success 
for themselves, the university and the region.
The Carnegie Mellon 
team placed ?fth in the 2012 
Putnam Competition and 
second in 2011, with additional top-?ve ?nishes in 
1946, 1949, and 1987. The 
universitys department of 
mathematics will receive 
$20,000, with each team 
member additionally receiving $800.
Committee ReportsAnnouncements
STUDENT SENATE MEETING MINUTES
FRIDAY
High / Low
61 / 44
SATURDAY
High / Low
64 / 48
SUNDAY
High / Low
76 / 52
TUESDAY
High / Low
56 / 35
WEDNESDAY
High / Low
56 / 39
THURSDAY
High / Low
66 / 51
The Campus Life Committee discussed their upcoming 
annual effort to distribute 
Krispy Kreme doughnuts and 
coffee during Move On in the 
Morewood Parking Lot on 
Friday between 9 p.m. and 
midnight. The Internal Development Committee reminded 
Senators to come to the Alumni Brunch that will be held 
during Spring Carnival from 
10 a.m. to 12 p.m. on Saturday in Donner House.Compiled by
NOL UM
Compiled by
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
Senate thanked those who 
helped out with The New York 
Times lecture event and who  
helped with public relations 
for the Sal Khan lecture. Senate also congratulated electrical and computer engineering 
and business administration 
double major Ian Glasner and 
biological sciences major 
Shalini Ray on their elections 
to student body president and 
student body vice president, 
respectively. Civil and environmental engineering and 
engineering and public policy 
double major Colin Chadderton and senior biological sciences major Lindsay MacGillivray reminded Senate that the 
last installment of the First 
Lectures series will take place 
on April 17.
Finance Allocation
Senate allocated $4,500 to 
the Mindfulness Room. Student 
Body President and senior biological sciences major Lindsay 
MacGillivray presented in front 
of Senate and described the 
purpose of the money. When 
the Mindfulness Room was constructed, money from several 
sources was used to re?t what 
was then the West Wing TV 
Lounge and buy equipment  
like yoga mats and plant walls 
 for the room. The motion 
was unanimously passed.
Points of Discussion
First-year artchitecture 
major Victoria Yong was approved as a new member at 
large. Class council and a potential budget outline were 
also discussed. 
Senate also discussed purchasing food for meetings. 
Typically, Senate provides 
food at 4:30 p.m., half an hour 
before general body meeting 
starts. 
Often, there is no food 
left by the time the meeting 
begins at 5 p.m. Members 
agreed that Senate should order more food, so that those 
who arrive at 5 p.m. are still 
able to eat.

---------------------------------------------------

how is that going to translate 
into money from donations in 
the future? McDermott said. 
As a student, I dont want 
CMU to have a lower endowment because they [angered] 
alumni in their thirties who 
love [Culbertson], who this 
guy has done everything for.
Im in engineering; Im 
not really behind the business 
program, McDermott said. 
I took the course because I 
thought it would be interesting, and it changed my life. 
And I want that to continue for 
future students.
According to a news release from the Tepper School 
of Business, We appreciate 
the sentiment expressed by 
members of the campus community via social media, as 
through other communication 
channels, and will thoughtfully consider the perspectives 
that are expressed. However, 
the school will not publicly 
discuss speci?c details relating 
to our curriculum decisions.
Michael Trick, senior associate dean of education for 
the Tepper School of Business, 
said that Tepper, and Carnegie 
Mellon as a whole, is in the 
midst of reforming its entrepreneurship offerings. This 
has been a great time for entrepreneurship at the school. 
We have a track for it in the 
business school; we have a 
new minor out of economics 
called economics, entrepreneurship, and innovation, 
Trick said. As a minor, in the 
Tepper school, you can pick 
up entrepreneurship courses. 
Theres a good number of 
ways to get entrepreneurship 
courses.
While Trick did not comment on why Culbertsons 
course was removed from 
Carnegie Mellons Fall 2014 
course offerings, he said that 
it was important to have actual entrepreneurs teaching 
entrepreneurship to students. 
When you think of entrepreneurship training, the concept 
of mentoring, the concept of 
getting real entrepreneurship 
teaching the students, is an 
incredibly important one, 
Trick said. Weve had more 
adjuncts hired in the last three 
years than in any time. So, 
while we use tenure-track faculty and teaching-track faculty, we also use entrepreneurs, 
and they are fantastic.
Culbertson is a well-known 
entrepreneur outside of Carnegie Mellon; according to McDermott, he began at a young 
age as an entrepreneur by 
starting his own taxi and limousine service, and from there 
has been buying and selling 
companies and starting and 
selling companies for 25 or 30 
years.
Culbertson is currently 
the chief executive of?cer of 
Eidoserve, Inc., a privately 
held company that, according 
to Bloomberg BusinessWeek, 
develops interactive voice 
response (IVR) solutions with 
integrated mobile, Web, and 
avatar dialogue platforms 
for customers in the United 
States. In March 2010, Culbertson gave a talk called Getting Rich and Staying There 
as part of TEDxCMU.
Culbertson, McDermott said, 
also teaches for Carnegie Mellon without pay. He does it 
for free because he loves just 
teaching to students. Theres 
no expense to CMU whatsoever, McDermott said.
In an email sent to Culbertson early Saturday morning, 
Trick wrote, After consulting 
with the entrepreneurship 
faculty, I have decided that we 
will no longer be offering your 
Apprenticeship course. As part 
of our revamping of the curriculum, I need to rationalize our 
entrepreneurship offerings. 
This involves providing a clear 
sequence of courses, with one 
gateway course leading on to 
more advanced offerings, increasingly offered by tenuretrack faculty. The Apprenticeship course does not ?t in this 
sequence.
In the current entrepreneurship sequence, students 
start with one of several introductory entrepreneurship 
courses, such as 70-415: Introduction to Entrepreneurship, 
before moving on to more 
advanced electives. Culbertsons course, Trick said, was 
free-standing, and did not act 
as a prerequisite for any other entrepreneurship course 
offerings.
Dean of Student Affairs 
Gina Casalegno, who works to 
facilitate discussions between 
students and faculty about 
matters such as this one, 
echoed Tricks sentiments 
about Carnegie Mellons entrepreneurship offerings.
According to Casalaegno, 
[Carnegie Mellon] is looking at its entrepreneurship 
options for both the Tepper 
curriculum and for all of campus, and has been really well 
articulated, I think, in having the move to the Tepper 
Quad being a hub for all disciplines to collaborate and to 
really enhance the thrust of 
entrepreneurship as a coalescing theme for students in all 
programs.
When Casalegno heard 
over the weekend from students and alumni after it was 
announced that 70-419 would 
not be offered, she contacted 
Trick and Dean of the Tepper 
School of Business Robert M. 
Dammon and let them know 
I was hearing from students, 
and that I wanted to know 
how [Trick] would like me to 
encourage their direct engagement with him. He responded 
immediately and said please 
have them get in touch with 
me and the dean so that we 
can hear feedback and consider all of it. 
Trick similarly said that, although he welcomes the input 
from students, it is unlikely 
the course will be reinstated. 
In everything we do, we welcome the input, even if its telling me Im an idiot, because 
it tells me about the student 
experience, what the students 
?nd valuable, Trick said. 
And thats important to me. I 
cannot crowd source running 
this business school, but what 
I need is that input. And I am 
not shying away from any input on any other decisions I 
am making.
Zaneta Grant, a junior 
economics and professional 
writing double major who is 
currently taking 70-419, said 
that Culbertsons course will 
be sorely missed. Its my favorite class Ive taken since 
coming to CMU, ... this has 
been my favorite class to date 
because it encourages me to 
think outside the box, Grant 
said.
April 7, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/news  A3
Khan tells his story to CMU 
how many of you watch 
YouTube, but most of the 
comments are not Thank 
you,  Khan said. Then 
[the comments] got more 
intense, like this is the reason I passed algebra, this is 
the reason I decided to major in engineering. 
Khans success on YouTube kick-started his career 
as one of the most wellknown online educators in 
the U.S.
Khans mission is to 
provide a free world-class 
education for anyone, 
anywhere.
Education has always 
been the key determinant 
between the haves and have 
nots, but it has always been 
scarce and it has always 
been expensive, Khan said. 
Khan sees online education as a once in a millennium chance to change 
educations inaccessibility 
by giving his content away 
for free.
Khan was in Pittsburgh 
to receive the 19th annual 
Heinz Award for his advancement of the human 
condition. 
His speech at Carnegie 
Mellon is part of the Distinguished Lecture Series for 
President Subra Sureshs 
newly launched Simon Initiative, which will explore 
technology-enhanced education such as the Khan 
Academy.
Khan closed his talk with 
an anecdote to illustrate the 
potential he sees for more 
widespread education delivered with novel technology to transform our society.
If you were to go back 
400 years to Western Europe, you had a 1520 percent literacy rate, Khan 
said. If you asked a clergy 
member, What percentage 
of the population is capable 
of reading, they might have 
said  40 or 50 percent are 
even capable of reading. 
We now know thats widely 
pessimistic; the answer is 
pretty close to 100 percent.
The historical example 
was meant to show how 
easy it is to doubt students. 
Khan ended his lecture by 
challenging the audience.
What similar blinders 
do we have on today? If we 
ask ourselves what percentage of people are capable 
of understanding quantum 
physics, you might say maybe one percent, maybe ?ve 
percent ... what percentage 
of people are capable of 
contributing to genomics research? Maybe ten percent, 
maybe 15 percent ... But 
what if over the next 10 or 
20 years,  that gets closer 
to 100 percent? ... [What] if 
education becomes a basic 
human right?
I think that will be a 
very exciting time to live, 
Khan concluded.
University makes changes to entrepreneurship offerings
Abhinav Gautam/Staff Photographer
A group of students on Wednesday protested the discontinuation of 
Culbertsons popular entrepreneurship course. 
CURRICULUM, from A3
Slackman speaks on Middle East
an actor should the United 
States be in other nations 
revolutions?
Slackman compared President Barack Obamas current 
foreign affairs footprint to 
former President George W. 
Bushs footprint. President 
Obamas footprint is much 
smaller than Bushs footprint was, Slackman said. He 
explained that Bushs term 
ended after two wars and two 
occupations and resulted in 
resentment from several parts 
of the world. 
Meanwhile, President 
Obama promoted foreign 
policy through an aggressive diplomatic core, Slackman said. While Bush turned 
to his defense secretary for 
matters of foreign policy, 
President Obama turned to 
his treasury secretary to promote sanctions. It seemed to 
be working fairly well until 
now, he said. Right about 
now everybodys asking, Has 
the lighter footprint run out 
of gas? Is the world coming 
apart and moving backward 
again because the United 
States is taking a different approach? 
Whats playing out is very 
mobile and it is kind of immune to the in?uence from 
abroad, he answered, noting that it is misguided to 
ask what America and other 
outsiders should or shouldnt 
be doing in the Middle East: 
Whats happening now is a 
search for identity. 
He said that the United 
States and Western Europe 
have trouble accepting the 
search for identity by countries in the Middle East while 
they stand by. 
But thats not to say that 
theres no role for the international community in the 
Middle East, Slackman said. 
And if theres one thing that 
Id like you guys to take away 
tonight, I want you to think 
about Syria.
Syria is a country of 23 
million people, over half of 
which are displaced. Slackman said that people in Syria 
are caught between a brutal dictatorship and foreign 
powers, but the United States 
has not become heavily involved. He stated that maybe 
the United States shouldnt 
have applied the lessons it 
learned from Iraq to Syria. 
The humanitarian crisis that 
were experiencing in Syria 
is unprecedented in my life, 
he said. It breaks my heart 
when I think about whats 
happening in Syria.
Slackman ended his talk 
with the assertion that the 
Obama administration has 
not articulated its foreign 
policy well, but that if a democratic nation like the United 
States is not going to get involved in a foreign affair like 
the situation in Syria, the nation has to explain why. Slackman then opened the ?oor for 
discussion.
Business Affairs Committee Chair for Student Senate 
and newly elected Student 
Body Vice President for Finance Divya Kothandapani 
said about Slackman, I 
thought it was important 
that someone [in media] 
come and explain how media 
works  how newspapers, 
editors, and writers  what 
they think, their thought process, and giving a different 
perspective.
As Business Affairs Committee Chair, Kothandapani, 
a sophomore electrical and 
computer engineering major, 
oversees the Collegiate Readership Program and works 
with The New York Times 
through this program. 
The program is responsible for providing newspapers across campus in various 
campus buildings and dorms, 
including the University Center and Resnik House. 
Students pay a ?ve dollar 
media fee each academic year 
for the papers, which are otherwise free throughout the 
year.
For a transcript of The 
Tartans interview with Slackman, visit www.thetartan.
org/2014/4/7/news/nyt.
Abhinav Gautam/Staff Photographer
Slackman spoke on Tuesday about his experiences as a journalist in the Middle East, as well as the U.S.s 
involvement in the changes occurring in the region. 
Election results for 2014 posted
position, Michalak said. I 
wanted to be able to make 
sure somebody with the experience relevant to the position got it, and the best way 
to do that was to run.
A lot of people see the 
organizations of Carnegie 
Mellon as the bread and 
butter of the university, Michalak said, stating that he 
wished to immediately focus 
on improving the organization recognition process and 
encourage graduate student 
participation and representation in student organizations.
Ray spoke of her joint candidacy with Glasner, saying, 
It ended up being the perfect relationship, because we 
werent best buddies before 
we came in, so we had that 
sense of respect for each other. But now we get along so 
well; we will crack jokes with 
each other all the time. She 
added, Its great. I honestly 
love working with him.
From what Ive seen so 
far, we work very well together, Glasner agreed. There 
hasnt been too much experience on the working relationship between the two of us 
because the works just getting started.
Ray encouraged students, 
saying, dont be hesitant to 
approach us with anything. 
We have enough experience 
to make things work.
Glasner stated that he 
was honored to have been 
elected as SBP and said, I really want to help improve the 
student experience at Carnegie Mellon, and if anyone 
has good ideas, I absolutely 
want them to share them 
with me. I look forward to a 
productive year.
ELECTION, from A3
Anne-Sophie Kim/Assistant Layout Manager
POLICY, from A3
EDUCATION, from A3
Michelle Wan/Art Editor
Khan began making tutoring 
videos to help his extended 
family learn math. 

---------------------------------------------------

A4  thetartan.org/scitech The Tartan  April 7, 2014
April Fools computer science conference gets many laughs
NIVEDITA CHOPRA
Assistant Copy Manager
Last Tuesday, on April 
Fools Day, the Association of 
Computational Heresy (ACH) 
held its eighth annual SIGBOVIK conference, a tonguein-cheek, computer-sciencethemed conference, in a 
packed Rashid Auditorium. 
The conference showcased 
papers about fake, though humorous, research in computer 
science submitted by students 
and faculty. In the words of 
one of the presenters, This 
is a really good year for attendance! I think this might 
be the ?rst year that we announced the food.
Emcee Tom Murphy VII 
(SCS 07), began by welcoming the audience to SIGBOVIK 1,000  a play on the 
fact that the number eight 
is 1,000 in binary. He then 
showcased a web application, 
SIGBOVIK plays Twitch plays 
Pokmon plays SIGBOVIK, 
where the audience members 
could press keys to change 
the posture of a stick ?gure 
on the screen, in a manner 
similar to Twitch plays Pokmon, a crowdsourced social 
experiment in which Pokmon 
is played via the video-streaming website Twitch by parsing 
commands from users worldwide. Murphy stipulated that 
the SIGBOVIK presenters must 
maintain the same stance as 
the stick ?gure on the screen 
at all times while presenting, 
which was how the contraption in turn played SIGBOVIK. Murphy then called on 
the ?rst speaker, Jim McCann 
(SCS 10), who now creates 
video games on his own website, TCHOW (The Chickens 
House of Wacky).
McCann introduced himself as associated with TCHOW 
LLC, and began with a 30-second description of his latest 
game, TCHOW Rainbow. He 
went on to discuss cryptographically-sound jokes and 
optimality of jokes, but kept 
returning to this introduction 
and 30-second plug after every few slides, adding to the 
hilarity of the presentation. 
One of the funniest parts of his 
presentation was the following cryptographically-sound 
joke, that was also published 
in the conference proceedings:
What do you call a predatory ?sh, endorsed by the 
NIST and NSA?
A 6265a4a07968a7c1df16a61004fb7191177cafd4, of 
course.
This huge string is actually SHA (rk), where SHA, or 
Secure Hash Algorithm, is a 
hash function commonly used 
in cryptography. McCann also 
discussed the structure of a 
joke, proposing that a joke was 
composed of a set up and a 
punch line and depicted 
this structure using a logical 
system. He also gave various 
examples of optimal jokes, 
including knock-knock and 
reverse knock-knock jokes.
Patrick Xia, a Ph.D. student 
in computer science, presented DollarCoin, a new cryptocurrency, as an alternative to 
Bitcoin. DollarCoin is mined, 
or generated, by burning a $1 
bill, while taking a video of 
the burning process in a speci?ed manner. In his paper, Xia 
proves that burning the bill in 
this speci?ed manner ensures 
that the currency cannot be 
forged or double spent. The 
highlight of Xias presentation 
was a demonstration of this 
process of generating a DollarCoin, taking a dollar bill out 
of his pocket and lighting it on 
?re.
Stefan Muller, a secondyear Ph.D. student in computer science, demonstrated a 
new and better web browser. 
Muller believes that standard 
browsers are inef?cient pieces 
of software because they use 
a lot of memory, display advertisements, and are prone 
to security vulnerabilities. 
He declared that the root of 
the problem was the features 
in the web browser, because 
every time you add a new 
feature to a browser, youre 
slowing your browser down, 
hogging more CPU resources 
and potentially youre introducing bugs into the software. Mullers solution is 
Aluminum, the worlds fastest 
and most secure browser, with 
no extra features beyond the 
necessary functions of a web 
browser. 
Muller displayed his own 
website using the browser and 
it turned out to be just plain 
text, not the nicely-rendered 
pages that we usually see on a 
browser. According to Muller, 
rendering a website is a feature, hence not part of this 
minimalist browser. He then 
went on to show how chunks 
of the website could be viewed 
on his phone, using text messages. This demonstration led 
to a great deal of amusement 
among the audience, due to 
the fact that all the chunks 
of his website didnt actually 
show up via text message, and 
even if they had, it didnt look 
like they were sent in a particular order.
This humor-?lled conference contained several opportunities for laughter. For 
more laughs, the conference 
proceedings can be found at 
http://sigbovik.org/2014/
proceedings.pdf.
Abhinav Gautam/Staff Photographer
Left: Patrick Xia lit a dollar bill on ?re as part of his DollarCoin presentation. Right: Stefan Muller demonstrated a new, better web browser.
Lin analyzes Boston bombing using geocoded Twitter data
BROOKE KUEI
SciTech Editor
According to The Boston 
Globe, on April 15, 2013, three 
people were killed and over 
260 others injured during the 
Boston Marathon bombing. 
In relation to the tragedy, YuRu Lin, an assistant professor 
of the School of Information 
Sciences at the University of 
Pittsburgh, as well as a Bostonian herself, presented a 
Human-Computer Interaction 
seminar lecture last Wednesday, titled The Diffusion of 
Fear, Comfort, and Solidarity during the Boston bombing. In the lecture, she used 
Twitter data to study how 
communities are affected by 
tragedies.
How do we examine fear, 
its diffusion, and its relationship to other community 
dynamics? posed Lin at the 
beginning of her lecture. She 
explained that past studies 
on how catastrophes affect 
communities rely mainly on 
surveys, which are unreliable 
because of time lag and memory bias. 
Instead, Lins approach 
uses data obtained from geocoded tweets: Social media, 
like Twitter, allows me to 
sample large populations and 
study how people respond to 
real world events. This immediate response would avoid 
biases of memories. Lin also 
noted that the data from these 
tweets allows her to study 
larger geographical areas.
She used over 180 million 
tweets which came from 95 of 
the largest cities in the world 
 60 from the United States 
and 35 from other countries.
One focus of Lins study 
was fear. In order to determine which tweets express 
fear and which do not, Lin 
used the fear lexicon, a collection of words that linguists 
have determined to be associated with fear. 
As an example, Lin explained that in the tweet, 
What the hell just happened in Boston? the word 
hell would contribute to 
the tweets fear index. To 
demonstrate the validity 
of this method of indexing, 
Lin showed that on a graph 
of fear indices versus time, 
tweets from the city of Boston 
showed peaks on the day of 
the bombing, as well as a few 
days later, when a manhunt 
occurred.
To determine how the 
fear felt by Bostonians corresponded to the fear felt by 
people living outside Boston, 
Lin studied shared fear. To 
study how peoples fear response is similar to that of 
the people from Boston, we 
computed a shared fear as the 
temporal correlation of fear 
indices after the bombing, 
Lin explained.
Lin also focused on two 
types of social support: comfort and solidarity. Comfort 
was measured by the frequency the hashtag #prayforboston was used, and solidarity 
was measured by the frequency the hashtag #bostonstrong 
was used.
In Lins study, she endeavored to use tweets from the 
two weeks prior to the Boston Marathon bombing to 
predict the amount of fear, 
comfort, and solidarity that 
was observed in cities outside 
of Boston after the bombing. 
The factors which Lin used to 
try to make these predictions 
were geoproximity (how close 
someone lived to Boston), social connections (the strength 
of social connections, based 
on the number of replies sent 
between cities), and visits (if 
a person visited Boston recently). She looked at these 
factors both individually and 
in combinations.
Using these models, Lin 
discovered that the personal 
visit factor had the greatest 
impact on whether a person from outside Boston felt 
fear during the same periods 
that Bostonians were feeling fear. She also found that 
the geo-social combination 
model was the best predictor 
for solidarity, although when 
she looked at just cities which 
were far from Boston, the best 
predictor was the visit factor. 
The best predictor for comfort 
was, again, the visit factor.
But how does shared fear 
correspond to comfort and 
solidarity? Lin found that 
fear is signi?cantly associated 
with solidarity, but not with 
comfort. So what this means 
is that, holding other factors 
constant, cities with more 
shared fear tend to show more 
solidarity, Lin said. This result is interesting, because it 
suggests that fear could have 
a productive role in social 
support.
Although Lins study offers a comprehensive picture 
of community dynamics following the Boston Marathon 
bombing, she ended her talk 
with an invitation for collaboration with Carnegie Mellon 
researchers to further improve the study.
Courtesy of Yu-Ru Lin 
Yu-Ru Lin gave an HCI seminar lecture on the diffusion of fear.
ZEKE ROSENBERG
Staffwriter
In recent years, Missouribased chemical company 
Monsanto has generated 
nearly-endless negative press 
associated with their genetically modi?ed Roundup 
Ready crops. The crops, despite not being Monsantos 
primary products, are designed to be pesticide- and 
herbicide-resistant or even 
produce their own pesticides. 
This ability theoretically allows crops to have a higher 
survival rate, allowing a higher yield for farmers. The crops 
are incredibly controversial 
and have come under ?re for 
being a threat to everything 
from human health to scienti?c research. However, high 
pro?le public battles like the 
one over genetically modi?ed organisms (GMOs) produce many myths on both 
sides, making the heart of the 
Monsanto debate very hard to 
access.
The major genetically 
modi?ed crops created by 
Monsanto are designed to 
withstand Monsanto pesticides. While very few crops 
have actually been commercially released by Monsanto 
(Roundup Ready versions 
of corn, canola, cotton, soybeans, squash, and papaya, 
to be exact), these crops account for a huge share of agriculture and the effects of the 
pesticides can be devastating. 
The increase in pesticides has 
created large populations of 
pesticide-resistant insects. 
This leads to Monsanto nearly 
?ghting an arms race every 
year with bugs that are becoming increasingly resistant to Roundup and other 
chemicals used to kill pests 
and weeds. These population 
changes could drastically affect ecosystems, as well as the 
increase in foreign chemicals 
as local ?ora and fauna fail to 
adapt. Another threat to local 
ecosystems is Monsanto seeds 
that are blown out of the con?nes of the farms on which 
they are grown, which could 
also lead to contamination 
with local populations and 
change the landscape very 
quickly.
Monsanto has also come 
under ?re for what is called 
the Terminator Gene, according to NPR, with claims that 
Monsanto seeds are sterile. 
People argue that these sterile seeds force farmers to continuously buy Monsanto seeds 
rather than replanting the 
ones already produced. While 
Monsanto has isolated the 
Terminator Gene, they deny 
using it in their crops. 
Further, buying new seeds 
each year is a common practice for farmers. The Terminator Gene can also help prevent 
Monsanto crops from acting 
as invasive species, as the 
seeds terminate and cannot 
grow.
Another thing muddling 
this debate is a common tendency to equate Monsanto 
and GMOs. While companies 
like DuPont are also part of 
the market, Monsanto holds a 
massive amount of the market 
share, and it is very dif?cult 
for GMO producing companies to start up because the 
negative press of Monsanto 
has spread to GMOs. GMOs 
are widely disliked, largely 
because of some of Monsantos business practices, but 
mostly anti-GMO sentiment 
has fueled the charge against 
Monsanto. However, under 
closer examination it seems 
Monsanto has used the concept of GMOs for its own gain 
and not for the bene?ts that 
GMOs can yield. 
GMOs have been used for 
extremely positive purposes. 
One example is golden rice, a 
form of rice genetically modi?ed to contain vitamin A in 
order to help regions where 
vitamin A de?ciencies are 
extremely common. The production of the rice has been 
met with mass resistance, as 
both environmental groups 
and protesters have uprooted crops and prevented the 
spread of the product. This 
resistance stems from a general resistance to GMOs, as 
golden rice has undergone extensive testing and has been 
determined to be safe both 
to eat and for the environment. It is clear that most of 
the world refuses to eat genetically modi?ed crops despite the scienti?c urge to do 
otherwise.
The most common concern with GMOs is the health 
risk often associated with 
genetically modi?ed foods. 
Many scientists tend to believe that GMOs are not inherently dangerous, but there is 
a very vocal minority who say 
they are. A common example 
is a 2012 study by Gilles-ric 
Sralini linking Monsanto 
corn crops to cancer in rats. 
For a vast number of reasons, 
this study was retracted, and 
GMOs are likely safe to eat, 
but that is not the end of 
the debate. These general 
PUGWASH COLUMNMonsanto gives a bad name to genetically modi?ed products
Kelsey Thompson/Junior Staff Artist
See AGRICULTURE, A5

---------------------------------------------------

April 7, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/scitech  A5
CLAIRE GIANAKAS
Staffwriter
When the ?rst laser was 
produced on May 16, 1960, 
it was described as a solution 
looking for a problem. Today, 
however, lasers are involved 
in many standard procedures 
including surgery, manufacturing, and reading barcodes 
and compact discs.
The science behind lasers 
is based in the structure of atoms. Atoms contain a nucleus 
of protons and neutrons surrounded by electrons in what 
is called an electron cloud. 
The electron cloud can be 
understood as many different orbits, often called energy 
levels, around the nucleus. 
When energy, often in the 
form of heat, is added to an 
atom, electrons are moved 
from their ground state energy level to a higher energy 
level. This state is called an 
excited state. Electrons in an 
excited state want to return 
to their ground state energy 
level. 
To return to this level, the 
electrons will release energy 
in the form of a photon, which 
is a particle of light.
The word laser is actually 
an acronym for Light Ampli?cation by Stimulated Emission of Radiation. This term 
is a concise way of saying that 
lasers control how atoms release photons. 
According to LIGHTFAIR 
International, laser light differs from normal light in three 
important ways: It is monochromatic, coherent, and 
directional. The term monochromatic means that the light 
consists of only one wavelength of light. Each wavelength of light corresponds 
to a speci?c color of light, 
and the wavelength of light 
is determined by the energy 
state of the electron and the 
amount of energy released. 
The term coherent means that 
each photon moves in unison 
with the other photons in an 
organized manner. Finally, 
the term directional signi?es that the light is released 
in only one direction, which 
makes the beam strong and 
concentrated.
In order to produce laser 
light instead of normal light, 
stimulated emission, or organized emission, must occur. 
According to howstuffworks.
com, this process begins when 
a burst of light or electrical 
discharge raises atoms in the 
lasing medium to an energy 
level about two or three levels above their ground-state 
energy level. In order to return to their ground state, 
these electrons emit photons 
of light. 
Stimulated emission occurs when one photon of light 
encounters an electron in the 
same energy level as the original electron that created the 
?rst photon. When this happens, the ?rst photon causes 
the electron to emit a second 
photon of light with the same 
wavelength and direction as 
the original photon.
This effect is enhanced by 
a pair of mirrors located on 
either end of the lasing medium. These mirrors cause 
the photons of light to re?ect 
back and forth through the 
lasing medium. As they travel 
back and forth, the photons 
encounter other electrons and 
cause them to emit photons 
of the same wavelength and 
direction. This process ensures that the light is monochromatic, coherent, and directional. One of the mirrors 
at one end of the laser is halfsilvered, which means that it 
re?ects some light and allows 
some light to pass through. 
The light that passes through 
this mirror is the light that we 
see as the laser.
While all lasers perform 
this general function, lasers 
have been split into many different categories. The type 
of laser is often determined 
by the lasing medium. Lasing mediums can be solids, 
liquids, gases, or semiconductors. Some common laser types include solid-state 
lasers, gas lasers, excimer lasers (with reactive gas laser 
mediums), dye lasers (with 
complex organic dye laser 
mediums), and semiconductor lasers. Each of these types 
of lasers is able to perform 
slightly different functions. 
According to howstuffworks.
com, gas lasers are often used 
to cut hard materials, whereas semiconductor lasers are 
often used in laser printers.
Lasers have already become an integral part of our 
daily life, and will continue to 
affect the ?elds of science and 
technology in the future.
HOW THINGS WORKLaser light produced through organized emission of photons
Brooke Kuei/SciTech Editor
Gene editing cures mice of disease
The CRISPR-Cas system, 
developed by researchers af?liated with The Massachusetts Institute of Technology 
(MIT), has shown to correct 
a genetic mutation in mice by 
using gene-snipping machinery from bacteria. With this 
technology, a DNA-cutting 
enzyme binds to a speci?c sequence close to the mutation. 
The enzyme is then able to 
cut the DNA and then paste a 
correct, non-mutated version 
of the gene into place. Using 
this method, researchers were 
able to correct a mutation in 
live mice that results in the 
inability to break down the 
amino acid tyrosine. 
The hope is that one day 
this technology can be used to 
cure single-gene disorders in 
humans.
Source: ScienceDaily
Geologic clock ?nds age of moon
An international team of 
planetary scientists has determined that the moon formed 
around 100 million years after the solar system began. 
The international research 
team set up hundreds of simulations of the growth history 
for planets similar to Earth. 
By looking at growth simulations for Earth-like planets, 
they found a relationship 
between the time Earth was 
impacted to create the moon 
and the amount of material 
added afterward. By adding 
information about the mass of 
the Earth to the simulations, a 
clock was found in the data. 
Previous research provided 
data on the mass of the Earth 
post-impact.
Source: ScienceDaily
Researchers reset immune systems
Researchers at Emory University have tested a method 
that reboots ones immune 
system on 20 patients undergoing kidney transplants. 
Normally, when a patient undergoes an organ transplant, 
he or she must take an intense 
drug cocktail to keep the immune system from attacking 
the new organ. The treatment 
begins with a drug, inserted 
intravenously, that signi?-
cantly decreases the amount 
of white blood cells. These 
cells regrow over the next 
year, and this time they accept 
the new organ. Doctors give a 
monthly injection of a drug 
that helps the white blood 
cells accept the new organ 
even more; another drug is 
given to suppress some of the 
old cells which might attack.
Source: New Scientist
Ebola outbreak in Western Africa
An outbreak of the Ebola virus has taken the lives 
of more than 80 people in 
Western Africa, mostly in the 
country of Guinea. The World 
Health Organization reports 
a total of 137 cases. Doctors 
Without Borders has been attempting to educate citizens 
about how Ebola is spread, as 
well as help train medical personnel that may have to deal 
with infected patients. Genetic analysis has indicated that 
the strain of this outbreak is 
most closely related to the 
strain Ebola-Zaire, considered one of the most deadly of 
Ebola strains.
Ebola causes hemorrhagic 
fever and has a mortality rate 
of over 60 percent.
Source: CNN
Transgenic trees better for biofuels
A recent article published 
in Nature shows that transgenic poplar trees are easier 
to break down to make paper 
and biofuels. Lignin, a tough 
polymer found in trees, is usually the most dif?cult part of 
the plant to break down when 
making biofuels or paper. The 
transgenic poplar trees, however, have a form of lignin 
that is easier to break down.
The potential for saving 
energy is so high that this 
change should be considered 
in every plant thats destined 
to be pulped or converted to 
biofuel, said Professor of biochemistry at the University 
of Wisconsin-Madison John 
Ralph, an author of the paper. 
Ralph and his team have ?led 
patent applications for the genetically modi?ed poplars.
Source: Nature
Muscles controlled by reaction to light
Scientists have developed 
a new way to control muscles 
with light. 
The research, developed 
at the University College London, involves transplanting 
synthetic motor neurons into 
nerve endings. The neurons 
are made from stem cells and 
react to blue light; scientists 
can control the muscle function depending on frequency, 
intensity, and pulse of the 
light. These cells may help 
individuals with diseases 
that affect motor neurons 
and cause paralysis, such as 
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis 
(ALS).
Source: ScienceDaily
Compiled By
MICHAEL SETZER
SCITECH BRIEFS
defenses of GMOs are not always speci?c to Monsanto. 
Often, Monsanto genetically 
modi?es crops to solve problems that wouldnt exist without Monsanto, creating a selfreinforcing cycle of need for 
Monsanto products. 
Further, Monsantos use 
of patent laws makes it extremely dif?cult to research 
the exact effect Monsantos 
crops can have. Researchers 
need permission from the 
company to conduct studies. 
While claims of Monsanto suing people because their crop 
blew into a garden stems from 
a sensationalized version of 
one lawsuit, something similar happens with scienti?c research where Monsanto will 
often refuse to give people 
the rights to research their 
products.
Genetically modi?ed organisms and Monsanto, at the 
end of the day, are different. 
Monsanto is a chemical company producing pesticides 
and herbicides to help kill everything in someones garden 
that isnt a crop. They make 
crops designed so that their 
products do not kill the crops 
too. 
However, with massive 
public resistance to GMOs, 
these crops seem to be what 
we get from GMOs for the 
near future. With the potential of foods that can make 
more land arable and arable 
land more ef?cient, a company that designs foods that 
only survive their own products holds a massive share of 
the market, coming close to 
a monopoly. As time goes on, 
will GMOs ever reach their 
full potential, or has Monsanto poisoned the well?
Student Pugwash is a nonadvocacy, educational organization that discusses the implications of science, technology, 
and medicine on society. This 
article is a summary of last 
weeks discussion on genetically 
modi?ed organisms (GMOs).
PUGWASH COLUMNGenetically modi?ed crops are topic of heated controversy
AGRICULTURE, from A4
FEATURE PHOTOVictor the sassy CMU robot plays Scrabble with students 
Abhinav Gautam/Staff Photographer
Victor is a gamebot who sits in the third ?oor cafe of the Gates Hillman Center and challenges students to 
games of Scrabble. He is part of a research study on how humans and robots interact. 

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan is a student newspaper at Carnegie Mellon University, funded in part by the student 
activities fee. It is a weekly publication by students during the fall and spring semesters, printed by 
Trib Total Media. The Tartan is not an official publication of Carnegie Mellon University.
The Editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The 
Tartan Editorial Board. Columns, Editorial Cartoons, and Reviews are the opinions of their 
individual creators. The Tartan Editorial Staff reserves the right to withhold from publication 
any copy it deems unfit.
Letters to the Editor are the opinions of their authors. Letters from within the University community take precedence. Letters intended for publication must be signed and include the authors 
address and telephone number for verification; letters must not exceed 350 words. Authors names 
may be withheld from publication upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject 
any letter. Letters must be submitted by 5 p.m. on the Wednesday before publication by mail or to 
forum@thetartan.org.
A6  thetartan.org/forum The Tartan  April 7, 2014
FROM THE EDITORIAL BOARD
Office: University Center 314
Web: www.thetartan.org
E-mail: contact@thetartan.org
Mail:
The Tartan
Box 119, UC Suite 103 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Suspended animation risky, could save lives
New student government must ful?ll platforms
No double-booking registration eases stress
University of Pittsburgh Medical 
Center (UPMC) surgeons will soon 
begin human trials on suspended 
animation, which is more formally 
known in the medical community as 
emergency preservation and resuscitation, according to Medical Daily. 
The technique is intended to give 
doctors more time to ?x life-threatening wounds, such as gunshot or stab 
wounds, and has been a resounding 
success in non-human trials. The 
pigs used in those trials survived the 
procedure with no cognitive or physical impairments. The procedure will 
only be used on patients in cardiac 
arrest, and it involves replacing all 
the blood in the body with a cold saline solution, which induces a physical state very similar to hypothermia. 
If the procedure is successful, other 
hospitals will begin to implement it. 
UPMC should be commended for 
its willingness to innovate and try potentially dangerous procedures in a 
cautious manner. Obviously, the hospital is not attempting the technique 
on any and all patients who come 
into the emergency room. According 
to Dr. Samuel A. Tisherman, the lead 
surgeon in these trials, speaking to 
The Huf?ngton Post, the ideal patient 
for the procedure would be someone 
who was admitted to the hospital 
with a fatal gunshot or stab wound, 
and who did not respond to the conventional treatments the hospital 
currently employs. 
Choosing only patients on the 
edge of death avoids the potential 
ethical mine?eld of using such extreme methods in human trials. 
However, the FDA does not require 
approval from the patient or the family, as the patient would die without 
some kind of extreme intervention. 
The procedure itself sounds unnerving, like something out of science ?ction, especially as the patient 
will be clinically dead for a few hours 
and then revived. Risky medical procedures, especially in human trials, 
should not be taken lightly; hospitals 
should carefully consider how they 
implement these techniques. 
UPMC has clearly considered the 
risks and is going about these trials 
in a measured and methodical way. 
This unconventional technique has 
the potential to save lives.
Last week the results from the student body elections revealed that Ian 
Glasner and Shalini Ray were elected 
as student body president and vice 
president, respectively. Glasner and 
Ray displayed a great deal of con?-
dence and experience in the debates 
held prior to the election and have 
an ambitious platform promised for 
their upcoming term.
Its important for Glasner and Ray 
to remember and be accountable for 
these goals, ranging from reforms 
of the dining system to changing 
the dorm alcohol policy on campus. 
During the SBP/SBVP debates, they 
displayed their knowledge of the systems related to student government 
and campus administration in an 
impressive manner, especially with 
Glasner referencing meetings he held 
with various campus of?cials regarding the issues being campaigned on. 
However, a few topics  speci?cally 
the dorm alcohol policy  will be 
dif?cult to accomplish. Glasner and 
Ray need to put their utmost effort 
into representing the wishes of our 
student body and carrying out their 
initiatives in a practical and wellreasoned way.
Glasner and Ray exhibited remarkable poise and institutional 
knowledge prior to their election, 
and we hope that they will continue 
to impress as they assume their respective student government roles.  
Similarly, recently-elected Student Body Vice President for Finance 
(SBVPF) Divya Kothandapani and 
Student Body Vice President for Organizations (SBVPO) Jack Michalak must strive to ful?ll their duties 
to the student body as they assume 
of?ce.
Kothandapanis campaign platform did not promise reforms as bold 
as those suggested by SBP and SBVP 
candidates, but her desire for a more 
comprehensible budgeting process 
would be an excellent addition to the 
current system.
Michalak campaigned on goals 
including expediting the organization recognition process and improving how student organizations 
receive advice. His platform also 
addressed supporting broader initiatives such as improving room 
selection, the installation of genderneutral restrooms, and expanding 
the amnesty policy to cover drugs. 
While all important topics, Michalak should focus most of his efforts 
on accomplishing what is most in 
his power to do so. As a sophomore, 
Michalak has the opportunity to run 
for higher student of?ce, where hed 
have greater power to tackle and 
throw greater support behind some 
of these broader reforms. 
The Tartan congratulates the 
newly elected SBP, SBVP, SBVPF, SBVPO, as well as the college senators. 
We hope that those elected will be 
accountable for their promises and 
work with the student body to build 
a better campus community.
No longer will students be able to 
double-book themselves for classes 
during registration. In an email sent 
out to the student body on Thursday, 
University Registrar John Papinchak 
detailed that, in order for students to 
register for two con?icting courses, 
they need to run it by their academic adviser before registration, and 
must gain permission to take them 
concurrently.
Trying to juggle courses that meet 
at the same time is a risky move for 
students; while its sometimes necessary in order for them to complete 
their coursework before they graduate or for other valid extenuating circumstances, there is no reason why 
the option should be open to students from the start of registration. 
Also, some students that have 
trouble deciding which courses 
to take often overload themselves 
with courses  some of which overlap  in order to try each of them, 
then drop the ones they dont like as 
much. The new registration policy 
will make this practice more dif?cult.
The Associate Deans Council 
made a smart move in implementing 
this new registration policy. Not only 
does it encourage students to make 
decisions about their next semesters 
course work earlier on, but it also 
helps alleviate some stress among 
the student body. Carnegie Mellon is 
known for its stressful and academically intense environment, and balancing two classes at the same time 
contributes to that environment. In a 
roundabout way, the faculty and administration are helping to combat 
Carnegie Mellons stress culture 
with this new policy.
Admittedly, this new policy may 
prevent students from getting some 
of the classes that they want. Some 
people have back-up classes lined 
up so that they have a second option ready and waiting in case they 
dont get off the waitlist for their 
?rst-choice class that meets at the 
same time, but now students have to 
decide if they want to risk getting off 
the waitlist for that class or take the 
safer route with a different, more accessible course. 
Despite this drawback, the policy 
will help ease both the registration 
process and students stress levels.Shijie Rao/Junior Artist
Malaysia ?ight media coverage misguided
JUSTIN YAN 
Its almost been a month since 
the ill-fated Malaysia Airlines Flight 
370 was declared lost, and almost 
two weeks since it was of?cially declared to have crashed in the South 
Indian Ocean. 
As numerous planes scour the 
seas for any sign of wreckage or debris, we  the onlookers  have followed the news story from the start. 
We have seen the countless theories 
surrounding the ?ight, including 
everything from the pilot and his copilot, stolen passports, hijackings, 
and the Illuminati.
It is important to follow current 
events, yes. They make us wellinformed citizens and enable us to 
participate in a public dialogue with 
our friends, professors, and whomever else we meet. But there comes a 
point when we are overloaded with 
information from the press. The 
press has reached maximum capacity when it comes to Flight 370.
 On the other 
side of the TV are 
viewers obsessed 
with ?nding this 
?ight. Something 
within our human 
subconscious is 
drawn to such 
tragedies, and 
the surrealism 
of a plane-crash 
contributes to our 
fascination.
In the past month, I have received more than 10 mobile pings 
that have said, Potential debris 
spotted in Indian (or South China 
Sea) Ocean or some other variant. 
In fact, according to The Huf?ngton 
Post, CNN reporter Martin Savidge 
has spent the past month or so in a 
?ight simulator testing Flight 370 
theories, inspiring the Twitter trending hashtag #freemartinsavidge.
Despite the extensive media 
coverage, there have been few signi?cant developments in the past 
month regarding the ?ight. These 
developments have included, ?rst, 
that the ?ight had disappeared; second, that it has been declared lost in 
an area in the South Indian Ocean 
using satellite data, complex calculations, and the Doppler effect; and 
last, that there have been possible 
debris sightings close to the area 
where the plane is believed to have 
passed through.
But as each day passes without 
con?rmed sighting of the wreckage, the media  CNN in particular 
because of its wide, expansive coverage  has resorted to excruciatingly aggravating extrapolation. In 
fact, one headline on CNN even read 
Was Flight 370 a Zombie Plane? 
There have been theories  none of 
which are substantiated in any way 
 regarding terror plots, hijackings, 
and a secret message from the plane 
before it vanished. Not only is CNN 
covering the story this way, but the 
other Big Two  Fox and NBC 
 have joined in, perhaps in an effort to boost television ratings in an 
era where news is more mobile and 
Internet-based.
Im not saying that the CNN or 
news outlets should not be covering Flight 370. In fact, there are 
some fascinating stories behind it. 
For example, Malaysias public relations and general management of 
the ?ights disappearance have been 
criticized internationally. Therein 
lies the potential for a story with concrete facts and credible sources, one 
that would not be an extrapolation.
However, on the other side of the 
TV are viewers obsessed with ?nding this ?ight. Something within 
our human subconscious is drawn 
to such tragedies, and the surrealism of a plane crash contributes to 
our fascination. Flights, which used 
to be considered a luxury, are now 
considered to be essential. Air travel 
has connected the world by making 
it so much easier to traverse.
As a result of this accessibility, 
there is a sense of security, ease, and 
comfort, even, to be traveling in a 
metal bird thousands of miles above 
the ground. Then, an incident like 
Flight 370 comes along and disrupts 
our con?dence in such a sense. As a 
result, we are compelled to understand what went wrong, and how 
Flight 370 differed from the millions 
of others. 
That being said, there are several 
issues with the way the Big Three 
 CNN, NBC, and Fox  have been 
capitalizing on this innate public 
interest in the doomed ?ight. The 
outlets, by throwing speculations 
and extrapolations, have left us confused and lead us to question their 
authority and integrity on such relatable, high-pro?le incidents.
Justin Yan (jky@) is a staffwriter for 
The Tartan.
Eunice Oh/Staff Artist
Editorial Staff
Editorial Board
RACHEL COHEN*
Publisher
BRADEN KELNER*
Editor-in-Chief
ARIEL HOFFMAIER
Forum Editor 
KATE GROSCHNER*
Contributing Editor
EVAN KAHN
Asst. Copy Manager
CHLOE THOMPSON
Staffwriter
BRENT HEARD *
Contributing Editor
LAURA SCHERB *
Operations Manager
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
News Editor
BROOKE KUEI
SciTech Editor
JOEY PEISER
Pillbox Editor
MARYYANN LANDLORD
Comics Editor
JONATHAN LEUNG
Photo Editor
MICHELLE WAN
Art Editor
MARTHA PATERSON
Online Editor
MAIRAD PETTIT
Personnel Manager
SWATHI ANAND
Layout Manager
WILL CRICHTON
Systems Manager
JOHN HUO
Advertising Manager
DESIREE XU
Business Manager
JAMES WU
Copy Manager
SARA REMI FIELDS
Asst. Photo Editor
JASON CHEN
Asst. Photo Editor
NIVEDITA CHOPRA
Asst. Copy Manager
HANNAH DELLABELLA
Asst. Copy Manager
ROBERT MARATOS
Asst. Systems Manager
ANNE-SOPHIE KIM
Asst. Layout Manager
BENJAMIN CHANG
Asst. Business Manager
NOL UM
Asst. News Editor
ALVIN MATTHEWS
Asst. News Editor
ROHAN VARMA
Asst. SciTech Editor
XIYU WANG
Asst. Forum Editor
EUNICE OH
Asst. Art Editor
JENNA BODNAR
Asst. Pillbox Editor
JOSH SMITH
Contributing Editor
JENNIFER COLOMA
Contributing Editor
JONATHAN CARREON
Contributing Editor
SENIOR STAFF 
Carl Glazer, Greg Hanneman
COPY
Lula Beresford-Banker, Francesca Begos, 
Amelia Britton, Matt Brown, Connie Chan, 
Gordon Estes, Blaine Greenberg, Katherine 
Huang, Mackenzie Nicholson, Stephanie Stern
LAYOUT
Adrian Amegashie, Manali Banjeree, Yong Gun 
Choe, Sara-Remi Fields, Mina Kim, Udaya 
Malik, Linging Sun, Tanguri Tzuo
ADVERTISING
Alison Chiu, Anuva Kulkarni, Kyle Henson
 2014 The Tartan, all rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN: 0890-3107* Denotes executive committee member

---------------------------------------------------

A PERSONS OPINION
April 7, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/forum  A7
The Tartan is about ready for the biggest Carnegie Mellon event of the year. So we asked,
What are you most excited about for Carnival?
Compiled by Sara Remi Fields
KYLE HENSON 
American Exceptionalism is in 
crisis mode. Maybe President Obama 
articulated it best when he was asked 
about it in 2008. 
Sure I believe in American Exceptionalism, he said, just like the 
Brits believe in British Exceptionalism and the Greeks believe in Greek 
Exceptionalism.
Some people just dont believe in 
American Exceptionalism anymore. 
Some people actually ?nd the whole 
notion of American Exceptionalism 
to be unfounded, nationalistic hubris 
created to justify American cockiness 
and aggressive foreign policy. While 
American Exceptionalism and its 
drivers are changing, we are still an 
exceptional nation, but for different 
reasons and with different implications than before.
To understand this change, one 
must ?rst understand the origins of 
American Exceptionalism and what 
it has historically meant. The idea 
of American Exceptionalism is commonly traced back to Governor John 
Winthrops 1630 A Model of Christian Charity speech. Winthrop declared, For we must consider that 
we shall be as a city upon a hill. The 
eyes of all people are upon us.
Contrary to popular belief, Winthrop meant that Europe would be 
watching to see how the American 
experiment unfolded, not that were 
somehow on a pedestal above other 
nations. He understood that the New 
World provided a platform for trying 
new governance. If we succeeded, 
then people would voluntarily follow our example. The concept of 
American Exceptionalism was never 
meant to prove that we were better 
than everyone else, just different: 
the exception to the European rule.
As American society wore on, we 
developed three factors that set us 
apart from Europe. First amongst 
them is our religiosity. As Alexis 
de Tocqueville noted in his famous 
Democracy In America, we have historically been a very religious set of 
people, and that sets us apart from 
many other nations. de Tocqueville 
noted that, because Americans were 
so religious, we were more inclined 
to work hard, adhere to strict moral 
codes, believe in personal responsibility, take pride in being self-suf?-
cient, and uphold family values.
Additionally, the United States 
has always been a unique defender 
of freedom at home and abroad. Internationally, we were the force that 
turned the tide in both world wars 
and, domestically, our Constitution 
was designed to safeguard against 
tyranny in all forms with careful 
checks and balances of power. Mitt 
Romney took to calling the United States the hope of the Earth 
throughout his 2012 campaign, re?ecting on our commitment to propagating liberty.
Finally, the circumstances of our 
countrys founding were exceptional. We were one of the ?rst successful anti-colonial revolutions, and we 
birthed a country that did not have 
a history in feudalism. Because of 
these circumstances, social mobility 
and opportunity have abounded in 
the United States, and the idea of a 
Marxist proletariat working class, 
stuck in squalor, is foreign. We generally believe that hard work can get 
anyone ahead.
Of course, these three factors 
dont have positive connotations to 
many groups of people in our country. Religiosity is de?nitely declining, especially amongst younger generations, and religiosity is the main 
driving force for pro-life and antiLGBT movements, further alienating 
more and more people as the national dialogue becomes more accepting.
Additionally, as we look back on 
slavery and racism in America, its 
increasingly apparent that we were 
only guardians of domestic freedom 
for white men until about 50 years 
ago, and even now were a far cry 
from living in a colorblind society. 
Also, guarding freedom abroad gets 
us into nationally and internationally unpopular wars, notably Iraq and 
Vietnam.   
                                                          No other country 
has a platform 
for intranational 
legislative 
experimentation 
the way that the 
United States 
does ... federalism 
paves the way 
for continued 
innovation and 
improvement.
Finally, after the recent recession, 
the middle class has become increasingly worse off, and social mobility 
has been damaged. As a recent study 
by The Equality of Opportunity Project noted, American social mobility 
is not the same as it was 50 years ago.
Clearly, American Exceptionalism 
and its drivers are changing, but perhaps appropriately. Fleeing religious 
persecution, dying for freedom, and 
starting fresh on new land arent 
even distant memories anymore  
theyve entered into the lexicon of 
American folklore. But a change in 
the factors that birthed American Exceptionalism doesnt spell its demise. 
We are still an incredibly unique nation, relying on two new factors to 
create a lifestyle and culture that 
cant be found anywhere else in the 
world: entrepreneurship and federalism. Religiosity contributed to Exceptionalism because it drove people 
to put in an honest days work and 
lead a virtuous lifestyle in the eyes 
of God. Religion is declining as a 
motivating factor, but there are people in this country working harder 
than their religious predecessors, 
driven instead by their passion and 
ambition. 
The United States has become 
the global capitol of entrepreneurship, touting enterprising, risktaking visionaries who sleep under 
their desks and work long hours into 
nights and weekends to follow their 
dreams and create something they 
believe in. While your stereotypical 
religious family man is seen less and 
less, entrepreneurs are creating their 
own brand of rugged, individualistic apotheosis. Its hard to imagine 
the lexicon of American folklore 100 
years from now without the names 
Zuckerberg, Gates, and Jobs. Without the fear of God, startup culture 
is promoting hard work and driving 
economic growth in a way thats 
unique to this country.
In the San Francisco area alone, 
there were 7,439 new ventures last 
year, and in New York, Philadelphia, Boston, and Pittsburgh combined there were 7,744, according 
to StartupBio.me. Compare that to 
all of Western Europe, which had 
a total of 2,917 new ventures, and 
it becomes apparent that religion 
isnt necessary to sustain the levels 
of hard work that make our country 
exceptional.
Aiding entrepreneurship in keeping America exceptional, our federalist system of government provides 
a platform for experimental governance seen nowhere else in the 
world. The system of states being 
able to experiment with most powers of government, while all living 
under one prosperous federal framework, gives our government the ability to adapt to new circumstances 
much quicker than other countries, 
and also allows us to try new policies 
with limited consequences.
Examples of federalism are far 
reaching and varied. SeaTac, a city 
in Washington, recently raised its 
minimum wage to $15 an hour in 
an effort to explore the effects a 
higher minimum wage would have 
on the community. In 2011, Vermont passed statewide legislation 
that created, essentially, the ?rst 
single-payer healthcare system in 
the country. Additionally, Colorado 
and Washington have experimented 
with legalizing recreational marijuana, and states across the union have 
started allowing same-sex couples to 
get married.
These changes have had an effect in Washington and across the 
globe. The Supreme Court struck 
down the Defense of Marriage Act as 
a response to state-by-state same-sex 
marriage legalization. This decision 
has brought the issue of same-sex 
marriage into the national dialogue 
in places like Ireland and Chile, 
where same-sex marriage is still considered taboo. 
No other country has a platform 
for intranational legislative experimentation the way that the United 
States does, and as the role of government in peoples lives continues 
to change, federalism paves the way 
for continued innovation and improvement.
Throughout the course of history, 
our willingness to try new things  
whether we succeed or fail  has 
paved the way for improvement 
across the globe. 
From the immeasurable amount 
of good that cell phones are doing to 
lift people out of poverty in Africa, 
to understanding that alcohol bans 
arent going to work, Americas differences have made the world a better place.
As Winthrop noted almost 400 
years ago, people around the world 
look to our example to learn. We 
dont have to be better or worse than 
any other country, just different. 
Lets keep America weird.
Kyle Henson (kahenson@) is a staffwriter for The Tartan.
#CancelColbert ?asco is 
social justice gone wrong
American Exceptionalism remains vital
XIYU WANG 
Last week, one of my favorite shows, The Colbert Report, was 
harshly criticized because of a 
tweet: an out-of-context joke about 
the Ching-Chong-Ding-Dong Foundation for Sensitivity to Orientals 
or Whatever. Upon reading this 
tweet, Suey Park, a Twitter activist, 
sent out a tweet calling for Colberts 
?ring with the hashtag #CancelColbert, subsequently creating a 
newstorm as various media outlets 
picked up the story. Damn it, news 
corps, you made me care about a 
Twitter hashtag.
Even out of context, the joke was 
not offensive to me, though that 
may just be because Ive heard one 
too many Ricky Gervais jokes about 
child rape. In context, it is a stretch 
for anyone to call it offensive; it satirizes Washington Redskins owner 
Dan Snyders charitable foundation 
for Native Americans, which has 
the term Redskins in it. In fact, it 
reaf?rms that Ching-Chong-DingDong, like Redskins, is racist.
Upon realizing that she had taken the joke out of context, Park told 
people that she didnt actually want 
Colberts show to be canceled, and 
that she used the hashtag to raise 
awareness for her broader message.
Supporters of #CancelColbert 
claim that comedy should not use 
racial stereotypes, and that satire 
has to be completely clear about 
who it is ridiculing because people 
could misinterpret the use of subtle 
anti-racist humor as a green light to 
use actual racist humor.
There is no special reason why 
comedy in particular, along with every other kind of entertainment and 
speech that exists, should not use 
or discuss racial stereotypes. These 
stereotypes wont go away if we stop 
talking about them. Furthermore, 
all speech can be misinterpreted. 
For instance, Glenn Beck used Martin Luther King, Jr.s speeches for his 
conservative causes despite Kings 
advocacy for liberal causes. The value of any form of speech should not 
be determined by the people who 
misuse it.
Colberts critics also claim that 
white men should not comment 
on race, which is a fairly ridiculous assertion. Being white doesnt 
mean you cant make good points 
about race. Furthermore, conversation about race relations should 
aim at being inclusive rather than 
exclusive.
More disturbing is the number of 
people who claim that Parks tactic 
of overreaction, calling to cancel 
Colberts show, was justi?able in 
raising these concerns.
Fox News pulled a similar stunt 
in 2010, when it took a quote from 
then-government of?cial Shirley 
Sherrod out of context, painting the 
content of one of her speeches as a 
diatribe against whites, when in reality it was a personal story of racial 
healing. As a result, Sherrod was 
forced to resign from her position 
as Georgia State Director of Rural 
Development for the United States 
Department of Agriculture.
It is unlikely that a celebrity like 
Colbert would be ?red due to #CancelColbert, but suppose Parks target 
had not been Colbert, but some business owner or teacher whose words 
were taken out of context. The tactics used by Park and Fox News are 
irresponsible and have the potential 
to damage the careers and lives of 
innocent individuals.
Some people may wonder why 
Im not criticizing the commentators 
who sent rape and death threats to 
Park. Their behavior is vastly more 
reprehensible, but no reasonable 
person actually thinks such behavior is justi?ed. On the other hand, a 
lot of legitimately in?uential people 
seem to agree with #CancelColbert 
on the views I have mentioned.
Also note that this is not a commentary on social justice in general, 
but rather on these speci?c viewpoints that certain members of the 
community hold. There is a place in 
the world for social justice, in a society where minorities are still culturally and politically underrepresented. However, insular and sterilized 
conversations peppered with kneejerk reactions do not in any way advance social justice causes.
Xiyu Wang (xiyuw@) is a staffwriter 
for The Tartan.
Kelsey Thompson/Junior Artist
Shoshana Klein
BXA Music, Psychology
First-year
I dont know, its my first Carnival!
Niko Torres
ChemE
First-year
Im really excited for the 25th 
Annual Putnam County Spelling 
Bee! Im also excited for everyone 
having fun together.
Maya Lassiter
ECE
First-year
I am involved with buggy so Im 
excited for that! Im excited for
everyone to be relaxed and have 
fun after these stressful weeks!
Darrin Willis 
ECE
Sophomore
Im most excited to be done 
with work for a brief period of 
time. Im also excited about the 
booths.
Jay Kapur 
Decision Science
Junior
One of my good friends from 
high school and I both came to 
CMU, so our friends from home 
come visit during Carnival!

---------------------------------------------------

A8  thetartan.org/sports The Tartan  April 7, 2014
COMMENTARY, from A10
well, coming away with an 
important two-goal cushion. It would be wrong to 
count Chelsea out however, 
as PSG will be missing their 
best player in striker Zlatan 
Ibrahimovi

---------------------------------------------------

April 7, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/sports  A9
FEATURE PHOTOSWater polo ?nalists compete in tournament hosted at CMU
FEATURE PHOTOSTrack and ?eld teams edge out competition for second
Jason Chen/Assistant Photo Editor
Left: Senior Jacqueline Guevel hurdles to ?rst place in 100- and 400-meter hurdles. Right: Sophomore Brian Bollens, ahead here, ?nished the steeplechase behind ?rst-year Curtis Watro with a time of 10:35.13.
Jonathan Leung/Photo Editor
Duke University (blue) and Pennsylvania State University (white) competed in the ?nals at the womens water polo tournament at Carnegie Mellon this Saturday and Sunday.

---------------------------------------------------

April 7, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/sports  A10
Tartans win big at home in Quad Meet
NISHANT RENIWAL
Junior Staffwriter
Every year, the month of 
April tends to bring out an 
uneasy sense of excitement 
among soccer fans. Its the 
time of the year when their 
team is either ?ghting for 
their lives to stay in the toptier of soccer, ?ghting for 
European quali?cation, or in 
the race to win a cup. One of 
these cups is the UEFA Champions League (UCL), the 
most prestigious club competition in soccer. The UCL 
quarter?nals ?rst-leg games 
were played out last week: 
who will make the semi?nals 
to move one step closer to securing the dream win?
Real Madrid vs. Borussia 
Dortmund
This tie is probably the 
only one that is de?nitely 
over after the ?rst leg. Madrid oozed class in the ?rst 
leg played at the Santiago 
Bernabu and destroyed 
Dortmund, who had keeper 
Roman Weidenfeller to thank 
for keeping the score line respectable. Wingers Gareth 
Bale and Cristiano Ronaldo 
scored two of the goals, and 
expect them to be in the mix 
again at the Signal Iduna 
Park. The mid?eld three of 
Luka Modri

---------------------------------------------------

Carnival Preview2014
In honor of the reunions being held over Spring Carnival, The Tartan is featuring a brief review of past issues from one year, ?ve years, 10 years, 25 years, 50 years, and 100 years ago. The articles printed within are abridged versions from The Tartans archives. 
File Photos  (from top, left to right) by: Guillermo Gomez,Haley Bryant, Jonathan Leung, Kate Groschner, Andrew Viny, Alan Vee, Tommy Hofman

---------------------------------------------------

B2  thetartan.org/special The Tartan  April 7, 201419131914
Machinery hall nearing completion
SEPTEMBER 25, 1913
To Be Occupied Immediately.
The opening of another 
school year is marked by the 
opening of another building. 
Though not entirely ?nished, 
the enlarged Machinery Hall 
will be occupied immediately, and will house the electrical engineering department, 
in addition to the mechanical 
engineering department as 
heretofore. The plan of the 
building is very elaborate, 
containing many architectural and engineering features.
The most noticeable of the 
former will be a tower to be 
erected on the central portion 
of the building. The tower 
consists of a series of columns 
in the center of which will be 
a smoke stack. 
Around the stack will 
wind a staircase. From the 
top of the tower a commanding view of this entire district 
of the city may be obtained. 
The tower will complete the 
vertical plane of the building, 
planned in contrast to the 
horizontal plane of the Design Building at the opposite 
end of the campus.
The main entrance on the 
east side of the building is 
another of the architectural 
features, and is very imposing. In the basement and on 
the ?rst ?oor are the laboratories, the largest of which is 
the electrical laboratory. 
It occupies almost an entire ?oor and is two stories 
high. Between the main sections of it are two light and 
sound- proof lecture rooms. 
These are well equipped with 
the apparatus required for 
the demonstration of dif?cult 
and accurate experiments. 
The laboratories of the 
mechanical department have 
not been moved, but more 
space has been allotted to 
them, and they have been 
generally improved. On the 
upper ?oors are the recitation 
rooms, which are unusually 
large and well-lighted.
The building, when completed, will be one of the most 
modern and best equipped 
engineering schools in the 
country.
The following changes 
have been announced, to take 
place at once: In the Science 
Building, the civil engineering department will occupy 
the rooms formerly taken by 
the machine design department; while the latter will be 
moved to the former quarters 
of the electrical engineering 
department. 
Shortly after the opening 
of school, Dean Leetes of?ces 
will he moved to Machinery 
Hall.
DECEMBER 18, 1913
Keeps Closely Posted on 
Pittsburgh-Talks of Schools.
Andrew Carnegie spent 
last Thursday and Friday in 
Washington. During his 24-
hour visit he attended a meeting of the Carnegie Foundation, called at the White 
House with Mrs. Carnegie to 
pay his respects to the President, boomed Senator Elihu 
Root of New York for the presidency in 1916, set a standard 
of simplicity for Jeffersonian 
Democracy by walking to the 
White House from his hotel 
while secretaries, senators 
and many plain people rode in 
carriages and taxicabs, talked 
of his Pittsburgh benefactions, especially the Carnegie 
School of Technology and his 
hopes for the future of the institution; praised the incoming city administration, let 
his mind wander from Dumfernline, Scotland, the town 
of his birth, to Greensburg, 
Pa., where he learned telegraphy, asked questions faster 
than they could be answered,  
and wound up a busy day for a 
man of 78 by attending a dinner tonight.
On the subject of Pittsburgh, Mr. Carnegie exhibited 
evident enjoyment and his 
memory for names familiar to 
the average Pittsburgher and 
his intimate knowledge of the 
citys progress were in themselves a revelation.
He could anticipate most 
any question and declared 
that he kept in close touch 
with the scenes of his early 
triumphs through his old-time 
friends and by reading the 
newspapers. He said he proposed to go back home and 
see for himself the strides that 
have been taken.
The Technical Schools and 
the Margaret Morrison Carnegie School for Women seemed 
nearer to the heart of the old 
steel master than any of his 
other benefactions. That the 
schools will receive further ?-
nancial aid from their founder 
could not be doubted and, if 
his enthusiasm can be taken 
us a guide, the big institution 
that overlooks Schenley Park 
and the Oakland district will 
be bountifully remembered 
before the laird closes his 
purse strings for all time.
What can you say to Pittsburgh regarding the Technical 
Schools and, their future? 
was asked Mr. Carnegie.
Dont you think the 
schools speak for themselves? he replied. It seems 
useless for me to discuss them. 
But I must say I did talk of 
their future with Arthur Hamerschlag and Charley Taylor 
in New York last Monday and 
Tuesday. We went over the 
whole situation, and I was 
pleased with what I heard.
Director Hamerschlag 
told me they would be able 
to accommodate 200 more 
students next year with the 
additional equipment now 
being provided. Im satis?ed 
that this splendid institution 
will continue to grow and expand, reaching out after worthy boys and men and equipping them to ?ght the battles 
of life.
You know, of course, Mr. 
Carnegie, of the 1,000 poor 
boys who are struggling at 
Tech to get an education, and 
how 758 of them have earned 
$260,422 and continued their 
studies?
Do I know of these deeds 
of self-sacri?ce? he replied: 
Why, of course I do. I know 
what all the boys and girls 
are doing, the same as I know 
what the faculty is doing. 
These boys who labor through 
the day or night and attend 
Technical Schools when they 
can are future presidents, lve 
been reading in the Pittsburgh 
papers of one who worked 
three hours a day while the 
others slept, went to school 
eight hours, and put in every 
Saturday at some task which 
yielded him money. But I predict that that boy wont do it 
long. The world is patiently 
waiting for such a boy to develop into a man. Hell climb 
fast once he starts.
I want you to tell the city 
authorities of Pittsburgh how 
highly we appreciate the help 
that has been extended to the 
Carnegie Library. I note Librarian Craver needs 45,000 
new books for next year to 
meet the demands of students 
and others.
They tell me the Council 
has ?xed upon $197,000 for 
the library for 1914, which, I 
believe, is an increase over the 
allowance for the current year. 
I have no complaint to make, 
for I know Council will do the 
proper thing by the library.
Mr. Carnegie while here 
told a story of his recent gift 
of a stained glass window 
to Dunfermline Cathedral, 
which the recipients could not 
accept for the historic edi?ce.
Several years ago Mr. 
Carnegie made up his mind to 
donate a window as a memorial to his father and mother 
and deceased brother and sister, to be installed in the great 
cathedral. He called in the artists and artisans of the Tiffany 
studio to perform the work, 
and when It was completed 
Mr. Carnegie had the beautiful window shipped across the 
water to Dunfermline. Now 
the municipal guardians of 
the ancient cathedral have refused to accept the gift.
They came to me, said 
Mr. Carnegie, and told me 
that the Tiffany window 
would not do; it was too modern altogether for the rest of 
the building, which is more 
than 800 years old. I have 
determined to install the window in the public library of 
Dunfermline. It will be a more 
intimate and personal thing to 
do this for my father instituted 
the ?rst circulating library in 
Dunfermline many years ago. 
The Dunfermline Library was 
the ?rst that I established.  
Gazette Times.
Carnegie talks about Home Town
FEBBRUARY 12, 1914
Description of Theatre.
The announcement of a 
department of drama has created so much interest among 
the residents of Pittsburgh 
and Western Pennsylvania 
that have a leaning toward 
the diversi?ed activities of the 
stage that Prof. Thomas Wood 
Stevens has given a description of the theater and the 
announcement is made of the 
retention of Donald Robert 
son, the pioneer of the modern repertoire movement, to 
instruct the students in the art 
of acting.
The School of Applied Design, of which the department 
of dramatic art is a part, houses many of the popular activities of the institute, but none 
is attracting any more favorable notice than the possibilities that this course offers was 
opened this week.
The spacious entrance 
to the theater in the Design 
school building, in which one 
Shakespearean production 
will be given each year on the 
birthday of the bard, April 23. 
is from a monumental stone 
vestibule. The seating is all on 
one ?oor. 
The room is elliptical in 
form, the long axis being 62 
feet, parallel with the arch 
and the short axis 56 feet. 
The boxes, at the rear of 
the room, are high enough 
to give the occupants a good 
view of the stage. The organ 
chamber is to the right of the 
stage, opening directly into 
the theater, the organ being 
screened by tapestries.
Fabrics designed in 
keeping with the screening 
occupy the three panels 
to the left of the stage and 
curtain forms part of the 
same decorative scheme. The 
ventilation is through the 
?oor, being under each seat, 
and the exhaust is provided 
in a pierced decorative band 
around the ceiling. From 
?oor to ceiling the walls are 
panelled in straight white oak 
in natural coloring, decorated 
by plaster carvings, and the 
main section with inlay. 
Above the stage the inlay 
has been wrought into an inscription ici linspiration deploye ses ailes. Framing the 
opening are two oak columns 
of monumental size supporting the frieze carrying the 
above inscription, with carved 
caps which characterize the 
whole scheme of decoration 
 both for wood and plaster. 
The plaster ceiling forms a 
wide decorative band about 
the opening for a skylight in 
white and amber shades. The 
skylight can be darkened in 
daytime by means of an electrical device. 
The stage, instead of being 
separated from the audience 
space, is reached by a ?ight of 
steps, occupying the full proscenium opening. 
A scene painting gallery is 
located in another part of the 
building, with direct access to 
the stage. The whole of the 
stage ?oor is movable. 
The ?re curtain will be of 
steel and all openings out of 
the stage are provided with 
steel ?re doors, automatic in 
action. The organ has a full 
range, and the console, when 
the organ is not being used, 
can be set back of the movable 
wainscot.
The Dramatic School Opens
APRIL 29, 1914
Andrew Carnegie will be 
the only speaker at the celebration April 30, of Founders 
Day at the Institute which he 
established and which bears 
his name. 
The announcement that 
he will attend the exercises 
has given the celebration an 
unusual interest, and there 
has been an extraordinary 
demand for tickets to such an 
extent that the supply of invitations is already exhausted.
The exercises will begin at 
4 p. m., instead of 2 p. m., as 
heretofore, the later hour having been ?xed at the request 
of many business men who 
desire to attend. The committee has announced the program as follows:
Organ  Overture to Der 
Freisehutz  C. M. v. Weber
Invocation  The Rev. Edward S. Travers, rector of 
Trinity Episcopal Church. 
Orchestra  Overture from 
The Marriage of Figaro Mozart Tech Schools Orchestra, 
J. Vick. OBrien, Director.
Address  Andrew 
Carnegie.
Chorus  The Recessional De Koven,Tech Schools 
Orchestra, R. J. McDowell, 
Director.
Annual Report  The 
Progress of the Year . S.H. 
Church, Secretary of.the 
Board of Trustees
Orchestra and Chorus  
Hail, Bright Abode from 
Tannhauser) Wagner
Tech Schools Chorus and 
Orchestra Award of prizes for 
the three best paintings in the 
International Art Exhibition 
of 1914 W.N. Frew, president 
of the Board of Trustees.
Organ  Military March 
Schubert Charles Heinroth.
It will be noted that in addition to the two attractive organ pieces to be played by Mr. 
Heinroth, there will be one selection played by the orchestra from the Carnegie Tech 
Schools, and a choral sung by 
the students of the schools, 
and after that a chorus with 
orchestra accompaniment by 
the instrumental and vocal 
classes together. This is the 
?rst time that the musical talent of the schools has been 
placed on a Founders Day 
program.
The international exhibition of paintings will be 
opened at 6 p. m. on Founders Day, and is declared by 
the members of the international jury to be the ?nest annual representation 
of modern painting that has 
been gathered together at any 
place in the world.
The museum, will have 
several new groups of animals 
that have been mounted by R. 
H. Santens, the taxidermist, 
besides other interesting objects to be displayed for the 
?rst time on Founders Day.
The day will close with a 
dinner given by the Founders Day Committee at the 
Pittsburgh Golf Club, at 7:30 
p.m., in honor of Mr. and Mrs. 
Carnegie.  Gazette Times.
Carnegie announced as sole speaker at Founders Day 
FEATURE PHOTO
File Photo
A visual depiction of how Santa Claus has transformed over the years into Carnegie Mellon.
What can you say to Pittsburgh 
regarding the Technical Schools 
and their future? was asked Mr. 
Carnegie. Dont you think the 
schools speak for themselves? he 
replied. It seems useless for me 
to discuss them...
- Carnegie Mellon
The building, 
when 
completed, 
will be one 
of the most 
modern and 
best equipped 
engineering 
schools in the 
country.

---------------------------------------------------

New machines in Morewood
April 7, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/special  B319631964
OCTOBER 16, 1963
On Monday, October 7, 
$1200 worth of photographic 
equipment was stolen from 
the Carnegie Tech yearbook 
of?ce. Most of the equipment 
was owned by the photo editor, 
some by the Tartan. The loss, 
however, was not con?rmed 
until Friday of that week.
The events which led to 
the discovery of the theft began after a Thistle staff meeting on Monday evening.
Tuesday at noon, Thistle 
editor, Tod Johnson had dif?culty ?tting his key in the 
cupboard lock in the yearbook of?ce. Assuming that 
the photo editor had changed 
the lock, he thought nothing 
more of it until he received a 
call the following day from Jim 
Pawley, the photo editor. Jim, 
too, had trouble with the lock 
and similarly thought that Tod 
had changed the lock. 
Since neither of them 
knew of any change in the 
lock, they merely suspected 
that the lock had jammed. 
They forwarded a note to 
Dean Strick to have a maintenance man remove the lock. 
The lock was sent to Dean 
Stricks of?ce.
Thursday night, when Jim 
returned to the Thistle of?ce, 
he found that most of the 
photographic equipment was 
gone. His ?rst thought was 
that another staff member 
had replaced the equipment 
for safe-keeping, as there was 
no lock on the cabinet. No 
one had any information to 
support his belief.
Friday morning, upon 
questioning the janitor, Jim 
learned that nothing in the 
cabinet had been touched 
since the lock was removed. 
Under these circumstances, it 
became evident that between 
the time of the meeting on 
Monday evening and Tuesday 
noon, the $1,200 worth of 
equipment had been stolen.
It was presumed that the 
door and cupboard locks had 
been picked and that the burglar had substituted a new 
lock on the cupboard, which 
was con?rmed by the dif?-
culty that the two editors encountered. 
Dr. Ellis, Dean of Men, 
and Mr. Young, Supervisor of 
the Security Of?ce, were immediately consulted by Jim 
Pawley when he discovered 
that the lock in Dean Stricks 
of?ce was not the one that he 
had installed.
Later that day, upon Mr. 
Youngs suggestion, the Pittsburgh Police were called to 
the school. Detectives recorded descriptions of the stolen 
articles, which were veri?ed 
through serial numbers obtained from Jims home in 
Ben Lomond, California. 
Some of the items stolen 
were: a Rolli?ex 3.5 Camera ($300), a Nikon F Re?ex 
Camera ($200), a 4x5 Crown 
Graphic Camera, ($200), a 
105 mm. Auto-Nikon Lens 
($180), a 135 nun. lens 
($100), a 35 mm. lens ($100), 
an Ascor Speed Light ($50), 
Thistle burglary nets $1200 in equipment discovered almost one week later
NOVEMBER 27, 1963
Dale Chodorow
Last Friday had begun as 
any normal day. The weather 
was seasonably pleasant and 
the air was clear. The morning 
gave no foreboding sign that 
by 3:00 in the afternoon, the 
course of history would be so 
determinably altered.
I had one class that morning, after which I spent some 
time in the library ?nishing 
what little written homework 
I had. The library was the 
scene of usual campus activity, and the students were as 
earnest in their endeavors 
that day, as any other. Their 
anticipation of the Thanksgiving vacation only ?ve days 
away was motivation enough 
for a diligent spurt of studying, which I sensed.
 At lunch the students were 
jovial. The noon edition of 
the Pittsburgh Press had nothing of unusual signi?cance 
to report. After lunch I went 
up to the Wherrett Room to 
watch some skiing movies and 
inquire about the Ski Club. 
About twenty people were 
there with me and their interest in the movies was clearly 
evident.
Returning to the Fine Arts 
building I noticed the herd 
of secretaries on their way to 
Skibo to relax on their lunch 
hour. The long lines of students were also on their way 
there and I enjoyed seeing it 
as much on Friday as I did on 
any other day.
The afternoon was not signi?cant in its commencement. 
I chatted with some students 
between 12:30 and 1:45 and 
drafted portions of a design 
which I was slated to present 
the following Monday. At 1:45 
I decided to go to the cashiers 
of?ce and cash a check. It was 
here that events began to unfurl.
Bulletin Aired at 1:35 
SST
At about 1:35, a bulletin 
had been relayed over the radio that in the course of President Kennedys tour through 
Texas, a sniper had shot both 
the President and the Governor of that state.
The initial news, trickling in, was scoffed. Word 
of mouth newscasts were 
laughed at and questioned 
as ridiculous. I was in the 
Cashiers Of?ce when I ?rst 
learned, and it wasnt by word 
of mouth. 
Before a group of about 12 
students there, the radio had 
presented us with the news. I 
had no time to wonder. I only 
asked myself how serious it all 
could be?
On my return to Fine 
Arts, I heard a very callous 
remark from one student  
... occupational hazard. My 
stomach sank. I felt a horrible 
chill overcome me. It was an 
inexplicable combination of 
fear, hope, and helplessness. 
I waited.
Groups of students sifted 
around transistors and by 
2:00 it was a fact that the 
Thirty-Fitth President of the 
United States had been seriously wounded in assasination attempt.
The campus was shocked. 
We frantically searched for 
areas where con?rmation of 
the seemingly unreal tragedy 
could be secured.
Back in Fine Arts, approached a politically-interested and humanly compassionate classmate of mine, 
(probably out of comfort) 
and asked if he had heard of 
the news. I hadnt the nerve 
or the composure to plainly 
announce what I had heard, 
perhaps because I still had not 
brought myself to acceptance 
of what I had learned.
His exclamation of surprise 
was enough to draw other students around us, and as the 
questions were asked, I felt 
compelled to answer from the 
meager and utterly fantastic 
knowledge that I had acquired 
of the incident.
The area became a center 
of confusion and dismay. The 
time was about 2:45 and everyone frantically searched 
for a radio. 
There was a very sensible 
reservation of conjectures by 
the students. We all stood in 
shocked silence. One student, 
with a small transistor radio, glued to his ear, gave the 
crowd of about ?fty students 
the gruesome details.
Although the news of the 
attempted assassination was a 
fact, no one knew of the Presidents condition.
My ?rst thought then was 
to seek a source of ?rst-hand 
accurate information. Having 
worked on WRCT, I knew of 
their possession of a United 
Press International teletype 
machine. By 2:50 I was there, 
and with tears in my eyes, I 
read the awful details of the 
tragedy.
Crowd at WRCT
The milling crowd at the 
station was ?xed to that machine. Their attention was 
unanimous, having been dictated by the events in Dallas, 
Texas, of a fanatics blind devotion to snuff out the life of 
a man, whose existence dictated our own welfare.
It so deeply affected us, 
not because John Fitzgerald 
Kennedy was the President of 
the United States, but because 
John Fitzgerald Kennedy was 
a humanitarian. His spirit and 
devotion to the cause of mankind was only limited by his 
representation of the government of the United States. His 
gift in life was an in?nite perception of life  his recognition that there is as much to be 
learned from what is at ones 
feet as that which is above 
ones head. 
The American people saw 
JFK as a President, a human 
being, and an inspiration. The 
seconds ticked away in the radio station and the fear of the 
loss of this great man grew 
steadily stronger with each 
sound of the clock.
The questions were all the 
same now.
Whats happening?
Did they get the guy?
Is he dead?
Lull Gives Time For 
Thought
WRCT had been monitoring the news broadcasts over 
the CBS network, and the 
teletype had been serving as 
con?rmation and elaboration 
of those details by CBS. 
At about 2:55 there was a 
lull in both of the broadcasting media. 
It gave us a chance to think 
about the future, catch up on 
the details we missed, or to 
strengthen our hopes that it 
wasnt as serious as we feared.
The only sounds now were 
the incessant clicking of the 
teletype, and the soft whispers of the crowd in the station. The next few moments 
brought the ?nal word.
President Kennedy was 
dead. The announcement was 
aired over CBS at about 3:00 
p.m.
I hadnt been in the station 
when the announcement was 
made. 
I had been in the hall, 
pacing, sipping water at the 
drinking fountain, only in an 
attempt to relieve the twisted 
nervousness that had begun 
to sap my strength. 
My only comfort in hearing 
the words, Hes dead, was in 
the assuage of that bewildered 
tension which had clutched 
me not one hour before.
The teletype room was 
still packed with those who 
wouldnt allow themselves to 
believe what they had heard 
on the radio. 
They wanted to see it in 
print. 
I had that same desire, but 
the tears that fogged my vision and my thoughts, were 
enough to tell me that the end 
has come and gone.
Upon leaving the radio 
station, I was confronted by 
a student who said, I never 
liked the guy, but...
Interrupting him, with indignant sorrow, I said, Youre 
going to miss him now.
Campus Reaction to Death of JFK: Shock, Disbelief; Waiting Period Adds Fear, Hope
MARCH 11, 1964
Automatic milk dispensers 
and beverage coolers have 
been installed in the Morewood Gardens cafeteria. 
Though residents complain 
that the new milk machines 
limit milk capacity in their 
glasses, the machines are 
actually helpful innovations. 
Unlike the hand operated 
lever machines, these are 
automatic push button types 
which include a tray rack. 
The $900 machines hold two 
?ve gallon cans and consist 
of a refrigerator and pressure 
mechanism.
The lemonade-orange 
beverage coolers provide 
colder drinks than the previously distributed cartons 
of juice. Girls appreciate the 
additional refrigeration but 
complain that there are no 
longer any cartons of juice to 
take back to their rooms.
Mr. Helm, Director of Food 
Service, explained that, as the 
number of girls increases, major renovations will be made in 
the Morewood Gardens kitchen-cafeteria facilities.
JANUARY 15, 1964
Planned for Friday, January 17, is the formal opening 
of the new Rare Book and 
Fine Arts Floor of the Hunt 
Library. 
While (during the exhibition of the Plantin Morteus 
Museum) students were ?rst 
introduced to the facilities 
last December, the fourth 
?oor now consolidates all 
reference material (including 
bound magazines) which relates to the representative ?ne 
arts of Carnegie Tech.
This area, originally not intended for use until 1970, was 
planned from donations by an 
anonymous party for the primary function of housing rare 
books. 
The ?nal designs, with 
inclusion of a complete ?ne 
arts reference section, were 
mapped out by Architects 
Warner, Burns, Toan, and 
Lunde of New York City.
The transferred expansion 
of the ?ne arts section has 
consequently affected an enlargement of the Science and 
Engineering Departments on 
the third ?oor. 
It too consolidates all reference material for the students and includes scienti?c 
journals which were previously shelved in the basement.
There, too, with the 
absence of bound art and 
science magazines, more 
storage space has been 
provided. The remainder of 
shelved periodicals in the 
basement comprises the 
regular stock of humanity and 
other non-art-and-science 
magazines.
With these changes, 
though, perhaps the most 
important concerns the objective of containment for both 
the third and fourth ?oors. 
To accomplish this, the 
?ne arts and the science and 
engineering ?oors now feature their own complete-card 
catalogues.
Not affected by the librarys modi?cations are the 
facilities of the second ?oor.
Some of the new conveniences which have been 
installed on the fourth ?oor 
Rare Book and Fine Arts 
section are music listening 
booths, current magazines on 
vertical displays, and typing 
booths, besides the regular 
stacking of line arts books, 
bound periodicals, records, 
and paintings.
The formal opening, this 
Friday at 4:30 p.m., will be 
limited to invited guests of 
the library staff and administration. 
It will culminate a shortlived yet enthusiastic anticipation by both faculty and 
students for the completion of 
the new facilities.
Librarys Rare Book-Fine Art Floor Formally Opens to Public Friday
File photo
Students, teachers, and passers-by waited in utter disbelief for news of the Presidents condition last Friday 
in the Wherrett Room of Skibo. It was a scene that was duplicated in every area on campus, and the feelings 
were the same. Classes were unof?cially dismissed, as all sought word from radio, TV, and newspaper sources, 
which were relating the tragic news directly from the scene in Dallas, Texas.
... the stolen 
articles... 
were veri?ed 
through serial 
numbers 
obtained from 
Jims home in 
Ben Lomond, 
California. 
FEATURE PHOTO
File Photo
New dramatic arts center completed after several revisions in design by the architect. Complete theater facilities will serve over 150 students in the Department of Drama at the University of Southern Rhodesia.

---------------------------------------------------

B4  thetartan.org/special The Tartan  April 7, 201419881989
NOVEMBER 8, 1988
Lori Marracino
Planning for Spring Carnival 1989 has been underway for about two months 
and those involved have had 
some serious problems to 
deal with.
The major problem these 
planners had to face was to 
?nd a new location for Carnival. Since the construction 
taking place on campus has 
destroyed the parking lot 
where Midway is traditionally held, there was a need to 
?nd another place that could 
successfully accommodate 
the booths, rides, and people.
The Margaret Morrison 
and Morewood Gardens 
parking lots were two locations considered by Carnival 
of?cials, but the most recent 
decision was to remain in Skibo lot with booths and rides 
sharing the space that had 
formerly been used by rides 
and the SDC tent.
According to Spring 
Carnival Chairman David 
Levy, the Margaret Morrison 
lot would have been an ideal 
location, but construction 
planned for next year would 
have meant moving the 
Carnival site again. At the 
Skibo location, were safe 
for a few years at least, Levy 
commented.
A new location will again 
be needed when construction 
begins on the new University 
Center, now scheduled to begin after the graduation of 
the Class of 1990.
The present layout for 
Carnival will line the booths 
in a W-shaped pattern on the 
section of the Skibo lot previously occupied by the SDC 
tent and the smaller rides. 
The rides and the Alpha Phi 
Omega concessions would 
be moved to the other half of 
the lot, and the tent would be 
moved to the Cut.
Since the number of 
amusement rides would be 
substantially reduced by this 
arrangement, it may be hard 
for the committee to ?nd an 
amusement company willing 
to bring such a small amount 
of rides to campus. 
Were talking to one 
company now. If they 
dont work out well try 
another one, said Levy. If 
these negotiations prove 
unsuccessful, it may be 
necessary for planners 
to eliminate the rides 
altogether.
Plans for booth displays 
have been proceeding in a 
more favorable direction, 
but certain restrictions will 
still be necessary. The new 
arrangement of the Carnival 
will limit the number of available booth lots to thirty or 
thirty-two organizations.
While it is highly unlikely 
that these space constrictions 
will affect organizations who 
already occupy lots, it will be 
much more dif?cult for any 
new organizations to reserve 
space on the Midway.
For the ?rst time in a few 
years, Carnival will also include a large arts and crafts 
section.
The new area will run parallel to Skibo either along the 
parking lot or along the Cut, 
and will include campus organizations who wish to sell 
things during Carnival.
Anne Witchner, Director 
of Student Activities, will be 
helping the Carnival Committee with the arts and 
crafts as well as with other 
aspects of Carnival.
The trend of Carnival in 
the past ten years has been 
one of gradual expansion. 
With the construction on 
campus, the entire event will 
become more compact and, 
as Levy pointed out, more 
manageable.
Security problems at 
Carnival are predominantly 
caused by non-University people and the smaller nature of 
Carnival will perhaps be safer 
for the campus community.
Though students and administrators have been working for two months, most of 
the planning remains to be 
done for this years Carnival.
There will be a need for 
new students to ?ll out committees, and even a few executive positions are still empty. 
Were looking for people 
who really want to take on a 
challenge, said Levy.
For people interested 
Spring Carnival, weekly 
meetings are at 9 a.m. on Friday mornings in Skibo Room 
112. 
Levy stated that several 
assistant positions need to 
be ?lled, and, also, stated 
that some executive Carnival Committee positions, like 
Entertainment, are currently 
open.
A more general organizational meeting will be held 
next semester, in January 
and there is the possibility 
of a Winter Activities Fair at 
which students interested 
in Carnival can learn more 
about it.
Spring Carnival to be held in Skibo lotFEBRUARY 21, 1989
Josh Ruben
Construction of the new 
University Center, one of the 
central features of the master 
plan, has been inde?nitely 
delayed due to a lack of funds 
for the building in the Capital 
Campaign.
Paradoxically, however, 
the Capital Campaign itself is 
doing well.
President Richard Cyert 
admits that the main problem 
is that most of the donors who 
are giving to the Campaign 
are earmarking their money 
for other projects. Speci?cally, 
new professorships and other 
educational grants are the 
primary interests  not new 
construction.
The postponement of the 
University Center comes almost three semesters after the 
release of the Task Force Report on the Quality of Student 
Life on November 24, 1987.
Construction of the proposed University Center 
should commence at the earliest possible time. The notion 
of the Center ... is one that has 
been embraced almost universally by the campus community, the report said. Not only 
are expectations high, but the 
protraction of this project will 
have a chilling effect on all 
other steps ... that are taken 
to enable Carnegie Mellon to 
re?ect the virtually limitless 
potential of its constituency.
Student Government 
President Andy Robitshek emphasized the importance of 
the University Center for students. The University Center 
is the number one concern for 
students, he said.
The problem with fundraising for the University Center persists.
There has been no great 
support for the University 
Center, said Vice President 
for Development Alvin Brannick about the donations.
Cyert agreed. The University Center does not have 
strong appeal. That doesnt 
bother me; we still have to 
keep hammering away.
According to Brannick, the 
Capital Campaign is currently 
moving ahead of schedule. 
Were past the midway mark 
in the Camppaign, at about 
$130 million, said Brannick.
The fund raisers goal, according to Brannick, has been 
to get a prospect interested 
in giving money, and then 
narrow the focus to a speci?c 
project. He emphasized that 
the University Center is a top 
priority when talking to the 
donors.
Robitshek disagreed, however. They say that they need 
a major donor for the University 
Center, he said, but they have 
not targeted for a major donor. 
It has not been an emphasis.
 Cyert projects that the 
Campaigns goal of $200 million will be met by the April 
19, 1991 deadline. So far, the 
needed $30-$35 million for 
the Center is only at about the 
$500,000 mark, according to 
Brannick. 
We havent given up on 
[the Center], said Cyert. Brannick stated that most of gifts 
have come from sources that 
the Campaigns organizers did 
not consider at ?rst. Were just 
now beginning to start on the 
big prospects, said Brannick. 
He hopes that with these prospects, large funds directed for 
the Center may be obtained. 
Our best days are ahead, he 
commented.
If a separate campaign 
solely for the University Center is needed, Brannick projects that it might be scheduled 
to begin near June 30, 1991, 
after the Capital Campaign 
and at the end of the schools 
?scal year.
Aside from the major donors wanting their money to 
go to other projects, delays 
and other problems for the 
master plan also stand in the 
way of the University Center.
Brannick said that when 
the University Center plans 
were ?rst being laid out, allowances for housing and 
parking were not taken into 
account. There have been a 
lot of twists and turns in the 
master plan, he said.
Brannick admits that the 
new dorm, football ?eld, and 
parking lot have caused problems for the master plan in 
that it has had to keep expanding its focus. Housing became 
a concern when city residents 
began complaining about 
students living in off-campus 
housing. 
Also, parking, a perennial 
problem at CMU, got even 
tougher when the city further 
limited the schools access to 
legal parking. 
Weve really been dealing 
with eight capital campaigns, 
said Brannick. Things would 
be easier if we did not have a 
whole list of [projects].
Another factor for the Centers delay is the current state 
of construction on the East 
Campus Project. 
Were further off schedule 
than we thought we would 
be ?ve or six years ago, said 
Brannick. In the course of the 
master plan, the East Campus 
Project must get ?nished, he 
said.
Even with all of the unforeseen problems that have 
hindered the University Center and the master plan as 
a whole, Brannick stated, 
Weve done very well managing this type of conglomerate 
[project]. He added that if 
the master plan had kept its 
scope limited, some opportunities to help the school even 
more may have been missed.
Cyert is expected to make 
a formal statement about the 
issue in the next month.
University Center postponed inde?nitely
MARCH 14, 1989
Howdy Pierce
In a week marked with 
resolutions, a petition, and 
anonymous postering, student leaders expressed virtually unanimous dismay at the 
administrations decision to 
delay construction of the proposed University Center, and 
demanded that higher priority be given to raising funds 
for the project.
The University Center 
?gures prominently in the 
campus master plan, which 
includes the East Campus 
project currently under construction. Its goal is to unite 
the student body by providing 
a common gathering area for 
recreational and social activities, as well as increased space 
for activity of?ces.
In late 1987 the Task Force 
Report on the Quality of Student Life supported the Center 
as a major effort to improve 
the quality of student life at 
CMU. The protraction of this 
project will have a chilling effect on all other steps ... that 
are taken to enable Carnegie 
Mellon to re?ect the virtually 
limitless potential of its constituency, it said.
Three weeks ago, The Tartan reported that the University Center had been postponed inde?nitely due to a 
lack of funds for the project, 
expected to cost at least $30 
million.
In an address to the student body last Friday, President Richard Cyert claimed 
that it was not accurate that 
the student center had been 
postponed inde?nitely, but 
admitted that the administration would not decide on a 
date to begin construction until the end of the capital campaign in 1991.
Hes leaving the new 
president in a situation to 
evaluate what the next step 
will be. Vice President for 
University Relations Don Hale 
told The Tartan. It hasnt 
been postponed  I dont 
know that anybody ever had 
a de?nite date [for beginning 
construction of the University 
Center].
Student leaders were to 
have met yesterday to discuss 
further student action on the 
issue, according to Student 
Government President Andy 
Robitshek. Well decide what 
to do and that may range from 
nothing to a week-long protest, he said.
Last week activities began with a petition written by 
Robitshek and Senator Carlos Franco. The petition was 
?rst circulated at the Tuesday 
Senate meeting, where, said 
Franco, a majority of Senators signed it. The Robitshek/
Franco petition stated By 
pushing the date of construction [of the University Center] 
back ?ve to six years, the administration is making a statement that the quality of life is 
no longer a top priority.
The petition demanded 
that the administration make 
the student center its top priority, and, if necessary, withdraw money from the endowment and establish student 
user fees to allow construction 
to begin as soon as possible. 
Robitshek estimated that 400 
students had signed the petition by press time on Sunday.
Franco also introduced a 
strongly-worded resolution to 
Senate Tuesday asking that 
the Cyert administration  
do its utmost to make the University the center of the current capital campaign.
In its ?nal version, the 
Senate resolution does not 
endorse withdrawing money from the endowment or 
implementing user fees, although Francos version did.
Im happy that the resolution passed, Franco said. I felt 
that those statements the endowment and user fees were 
necessary to show our resolve, 
but Senate didnt change the 
meaning much. On Wednesay night, the Student Dormitory Council met and also 
passed a resolution regarding 
the announced delay of the 
student center. The current 
facilities in Skibo fail to meet 
our growing needs, said SDC. 
It is imperative that a new 
university center be constructed as soon as possible.
The SDC resolution was 
authored by president Bryan 
Wong, Treasurer Matthew 
Fraser, Secretary Amy Shalikashvilli, and vice presidents 
Eric Hamilton and Patrick Jef?res, Christina Murphy, and 
Dey Hea?tz.
Some time Thursday, 
anonymous advertisements 
for Cyerts address were postured across campus. [President Cyert] plans to announce 
the postponement of the proposed University Center for at 
least the next ?ve years, the 
poster said. Were not going 
to put up with broken promises anymore.
On Friday, Cyert addressed 
members of the student body 
in the Wherrett room and 
discussed fundraising for the 
student center. Reading from 
a prepared statement, Cyert 
grouped the University Center 
building and the current East 
campus project as a single 
University Center Complex.
The anticipated investment for the University Center 
Complex  is approximately 
$70 million, he said. Half 
the funding ($35 million) 
for this complex has been secured. The remaining funds 
($35 million) to complete the 
complex will continue to be 
one of the focal points of the 
capital campaign.
But in an interview prior to 
Cyerts Speech, Vice President 
for Development and University Attorney Alvin P. Brannick 
said that only $500,000 for 
the student center itself has 
been raised.
Explaining the lack of 
funds for the student center. 
Brannick cited the dif?culties 
involved in raising funds for 
buildings. 
If I ever had to do it again, 
the one thing Id never allow 
anybody to do is wrap either 
bricks and mortar around 
an academic campaign or an 
academic campaign around 
bricks and mortar, he said. 
People say you cant raise 
funds for bricks and mortar, 
and I think its because of the 
atmosphere you set up. 
Life Trustee Robert A. 
Charlie, who has worked on 
capital campaigns for buildings at both CMU and MIT, 
agreed with Brannick. The 
University Center is just not 
the kind of thing that attracts 
the average donor, he told 
The Tartan.
But student critics say the 
reason the administration has 
been unable to raise funds for 
the University Center is the 
priorities it has set. 
I dont think theyre pushing the University Center as 
their number one priority for 
raising funds, Robitshek said. 
Theyre pushing a package 
deal.
Both Brannick and Cyert 
admitted that the University 
Center does not have top priority. Somebody asked me 
which [project] was number 
one, said Brannick. I told 
him that they were all number 
one. Theyre the reason Im 
here.
Cyert also conceded that 
other projects rank equally in 
importance with the University Center. There isnt any 
top priority  theres a series 
of projects.
Although he admitted his 
of?ce had not given the center 
top priority, Brannick defended the amount of effort this 
group has expended on the 
campaign. 
Theres not a fundraiser 
on this project that hasnt 
worked themselves into a 
frenzy trying to pull the whole 
thing off, he said. Theres 
been no lack of effort.
Most student leaders are 
optimistic about the administrations chances for raising 
funds for the University Center 
project if it is given priority. I 
think the people in the Development Of?ce, if guided in the 
right direction, can pull this off, 
said Robitshek. Im betting 
they could do it if they tried.
Student organizations rally in support of building of University Center
The University 
Center does 
not have strong 
appeal. That 
doesnt bother 
me; we still 
have to keep 
hammering 
away.
- Cyert
For the ?rst 
time in a few 
years, Carnival 
will also 
include a large 
arts and crafts 
section. 
 Were not 
going to put up 
with broken 
promises 
anymore.
- Anonymous 
advertisements.
FEATURE PHOTO
File Photo
An editorial cartoon (above) about Carnegie Mellon Universitys endorsement of Apple Computer, making a Macintosh II part of the recommended supplies, comparable to a recommended textbook for a course. 
A commercial advertisement (below) from the same issue is shown.

---------------------------------------------------

April 7, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/special  B520032004
AUGUST 25, 2003
Andrew Johnson
The grand opening of the 
University Center basement 
facilities on August 29 marks 
the ful?llment of space left 
abandoned since the Centers 
doors opened in August of 
1996. Initial discussions on 
the renovations began late 
in the fall of 2002, and the 
dialogues fruition represents 
a major coup for students, 
whose year 2000 counterparts 
opposed a corporate presence 
in the very same space.
While the big push to get 
the facilities in place started 
with Dean of Student Affairs 
Michael Murphy, former Student Body President Brian 
Namey said the space was designed by the students and for 
the students. During his presidency last year, Namey led the 
Exploratory Space Task Force 
(ESTF), which was composed 
of students and administrators, to determine a plan for 
renovation that would be 
well-received.
A new rec room, dubbed 
Scotland Yard, includes a variety of table games like pool 
and ping pong, as well as video 
games, from the old school Galaga to the latest craze, Dance 
Dance Revolution (DDR), and 
seems to be up to standards.
Its nice. Its bigger than I 
expected; I was worried when 
I saw the plans, said Fred 
Merkle, a ?rst-year ECE graduate student and former Activities Board chairperson. Scotland Yard is a nice touch. 
Every night, there have 
been more and more people 
in the game room, said University Center Director Marcia 
Gerwig, though she noted that 
it is hard to gauge the popularity of the project with orientation week being the only metric.
Jason Malatack, a sophomore biology major, said he 
likes to play pool and his roommate is all about the DDR.
Its nice just to relax down 
here, he said.
Andys, the new eatery in 
the basement, offers coffee 
drinks, smoothies, and sandwiches. In keeping with the 
student-oriented bent of the 
renovations, Andys also helps 
to address an ongoing concern 
 a lack of healthy and vegetarian dining options on campus. The non-Dining Servicesaf?liated caf is the result of a 
proposal submitted by Student 
Activities, the division that 
also runs Skibo Coffeehouse.
I want to open a coffeeshop of my own when I retire, 
in a college town of course, 
said Coordinator of Student 
Activities (SA) Dan Barnett 
who captained the proposal 
and, along with the staff of 
Skibo, designed the menu.
Since a Barnett-driven rehaul of the Skibo menu, sales 
have tripled, which was a factor in SAs submitting a proposal to ?ll the space. Other 
proposals from independent 
companies were also considered. Skibo, incidentally, also 
had some renovations this 
summer and now includes 
a cyber-bar that will allow 
students to surf the web as 
they dine, has installed new 
artwork, and will have live 
music every Wednesday this 
semester. Skibo is used to prepare the food sold at Andys, 
though there is little menu 
overlap, said Barnett.
John Hannon, director of 
Student Activities, was involved in the early stages of 
the project and helped guide 
the project during the summer. He said that it was miraculous that the space has been 
completed on time. 
We were on a tight timeline, so a lot of decisions had 
to be made on the ?y during 
construction, he said.
First-year business major 
Santiago Guzman also said 
he liked the new facilities, 
though he griped at the costs. 
All of the arcade games, with 
the exception of DDR Extreme 
and a VR-like game called 
Vortek which both run a dollar, cost 50 cents. The digital 
jukebox costs $1 for two plays, 
or $5 for 14 plays.
The original plan would 
have placed the improvements 
on the second ?oor, displacing 
some of the upstairs ?tness areas to the basement, but after 
further talks and research, the 
ESTF changed the plan to its 
current incarnation.
Stan Krowitz, the University Center administrator who 
can be found walking the halls 
of the UC in the evening, said 
that keeping the ?tness facilities in the open helps to promote a healthy environment. 
He thinks that students are 
pleased with the construction, and that the number of 
people enjoying the space has 
grown nearly exponentially 
in the few days that the space 
has been Open to students, as 
he has had to chase more and 
more students out at closing 
each night. The facility will 
be open during the school 
year until 2 a.m. each night, 
though that may change.
The new Career Center, 
which is sharing the same 
space as the new student areas, is largely outside of Student Planning and will later 
be moved to a bigger space, 
pending funding. A new centralized mailroom is a similarly bundled but also largely 
independent venture of Andys 
and the rec space.
While the space is open for 
use, a number of items are still 
on their way, and have already 
been funded, according to 
Student Body President Daniel Gilman. The lounge area 
adjoining Andys eatery will 
receive a 42 plasma television today that will usually 
run CNN with sound, but will 
also be switched to other programs that students might be 
interested in watching in the 
evenings, such as Pittsburgh 
Steelers games. Gilman sat on 
the ESTF and worked on the 
project as Nameys vice-president last year. Other tweaks, 
he said, will include bulletin 
boards along the hallway of 
the mail center, new lighting, 
and wall decorations.
In Scotland Yard, the process of demand-based tailoring is ongoing, said Gilman. 
For instance, the arcade games 
were chosen using a combination of student input  DDR is 
popular at CMU, for example 
 and the industry expertise 
of Dale Lazar, who owns the 
company that leases the machines to CMU and most of 
Pittsburgh. But the machines 
are fair game for change in the 
coming months.
Were going to monitor 
things, whats doing well and 
whats not, Gilman said. He 
noted that they had run out of 
sandwiches at Andys because 
they underestimated its potential popularity.
Erlan Barkeltbayev, a ?rstyear physics student, and his 
checkers partner (Guzman 
both noted that the selection 
in the jukebox is small, and 
Gilman said they are working 
on the student complaint that 
the machine lacks any kind of 
hip-hop selection.
Chris Smoak, AB Chairperson, has enjoyed a Blasting Blackberry smoothie from 
Andys. 
He said that during his 
?rst year at Carnegie Mellon 
in Morewood Gardens, many 
people used the poolroom 
as a place for socializing and 
that the space in the UC would 
have the same effect.
In his ?rst day working at 
Andys, third-year creative 
writing student Corey Camp 
said the students loved the 
restaurant, though nearly 
all the customers have been 
?rst-years so far. An hour ago 
[5:30 pm], we were slammed, 
he said about the popularity of 
the establishment.
The rec space will also now 
provide a hub for the Safewalk 
program, a student escort service for nighttime. The space 
will provide a more interesting 
waiting place than Morewood 
Gardens.
Throughout all stages of 
the planning, revenues to pay 
back funding from the University to create the rec space 
were supposed to come from 
the arcade machines. Dean 
Murphy said, though, that he 
doubts that the machines will 
pay back the loan, but the 
project went forward because 
of backup funding from various sources, such as his own 
budget. The total cost of all 
renovations is estimated at 
$2.4 million.
The new recreational, eating, mail, and career facilities 
now occupy part of a space 
that the University debated 
leasing to Intel for E-commerce solution research in the 
fall of 2000. 
The University had not considered renovating the space 
for lack of funding, and began to think about leasing the 
space temporarily to Intel, so 
that they could have the renovated space back after three 
to ?ve years when Intel would 
be moved to a permanent 
off-campus location. Though 
the space would have to be 
adapted after that, the main 
costs in heating and ventilation would already have been 
addressed. Students, however, objected to a corporate 
presence on campus and in a 
building whose mission statement was to provide facilities 
for teaching and learning that 
may be used by the members 
of the community or external 
organizations whose primary 
purpose is education.
Intel eventually became 
part of the Panther Hollow 
Initiative and the facility now 
exists on the corner of Forbes 
and Craig.
University President Jared 
Cohon wrote a letter to the 
editor in the October 16, 2000 
issue of The Tartan, acknowledging that the plan wasnt 
consistent with the long-term 
purposes of the UC but that, as 
a temporary solution, would 
provide many bene?ts to the 
campus community.
Whether or not the ?tness 
facilities belong next to the 
eating facilities as they are in 
the UC is still subject to debate. Junior H&SS student 
Zachary Hiwiller, a Student 
Dormitory Council representative of Nameys ESTF, said 
he would rather not exercise 
or swim in plain view of UC 
diners, but the renovations 
project is largely complete, if 
still awaiting a few tweaks. Hiwiller was in favor of the Intel 
move because he saw it as bene?cial to campus.
[The ESTFs] mission was 
to evaluate and re-evaluate 
proposals for the layout of 
the rec/dining space. We analyzed several proposals, and 
solidi?ed the speci?c vision 
for the space, stated Namey 
via email. 
He now works for Student 
Affairs until he travels to Oxford to work on his masters in 
September.
University Center renovations trans?gure the basement
Wenyao Ho/Photo Staff
First-year CIT student Boseo Hui lines up a shot at the 
new recreational center, Scotland Yard, in the basement 
of the University Center. Other features of the location 
are a DDR Extreme machine and a digital jukebox.
Wenyao Ho/Photo Staff
A group of ?rst-years enjoy a game of chess in the new lounge in the University Center located next to Andys. 
A series of coffee tables and comfortable leather couches give the area a feel similar to the Underground.
Alex Meseper/News Editor 
Andys is a new Student Activities-run dining 
establishment located in the UC basement. It offers 
smoothies and is one of the few places on campus 
to get vegeterian cuisine.
FEBRUARY 23, 2004
Alexandra Kilduff
Last Monday, Carnegie Mellon announced the opening of 
its new branch campus located 
in the Persian Gulf country of 
Qatar. The new campus is the 
result of a long-negotiated 
agreement between Carnegie 
Mellon University and the Qatar Foundation for Education, 
Science, and Community Development, a non-pro?t organization designed to promote 
education in Qatar.
Were very enthusiastic 
about it; its a challenge and 
an opportunity, said President Jared Cohon.
Carnegie Mellon is just 
one of several branches of 
nationally-known universities 
located in Education City, the 
Qatar Foundations headquarters. Education City is a developing 2,400-acre campus 
located in Doha, the nations 
capital. The Emir of Qatar, His 
Highness Sheikh Hamad Bin 
Khalifa Al-Thani, and his wife, 
Her Highness Sheikha Mozah Bint Nasser AI-Missned, 
decided to develop the Qatar 
Foundation and its university campus in 1995. It is now 
home to branch campuses of 
Texas A&M University, Virginia Commonwealth University, 
Weill Cornell Medical College, 
and Carnegie Mellons branch, 
called Carnegie Mellon University in Qatar, will be the 
most recent addition to Education City.
Starting in the fall semester of 2004, Carnegie Mellon 
University in Qatar will be offering undergraduate degrees 
in business administration and 
computer science. According 
to assistant vice president for 
media relations Teresa Thomas, Carnegie Mellon University 
in Qatar will continue to enroll 
students in smaller numbers at 
?rst, in accordance with their 
Pittsburgh campus policy.
Its always been the Universitys intent to have the 
same rules, policies, and standards at Qatar as it does on our 
main campus, said Thomas.
Indira Nair, Carnegie Mellons vice provost for education, currently chairs the 
curriculum committee for 
Carnegie Mellon in Qatar. My 
main objective was to see that 
what we do there is up to CMU 
standards, as we are offering 
our degrees there, said Nair.
It is our hope that this is 
the beginning of a new kind 
of global outreach, a true 
partnership, rather than an 
exchange or visit, for an undergrad program. Having to 
think carefully about what 
these international students 
need may also give us ideas for 
using some of the techniques 
and resources to better serve 
international students here. 
Charles E. Chuck Thorpe, 
former head of the Robotics 
Institute at Carnegie Mellon, 
has been chosen as dean of 
Carnegie Mellon University in 
Qatar. Thorpes international 
experience includes a childhood 
in Belgium and work in the Belgian Congo and Zaire. He agreed 
with Nair, stating in an e-mail 
that students may eventually 
be able to go back and forth between the campuses.
I think there is great potential for all kinds of interchange. Imagine a class in 
international business, taught 
simultaneously in Pittsburgh 
and Qatar. Students from both 
campuses can work together 
in truly international teams, 
so the exercises become much 
more realistic. Or imagine a 
Pittsburgh CS student who 
would like to spend a year 
abroad, but doesnt want to 
lose pace with classmates. 
This will be an opportunity 
to go live in a very different 
place, while studying many of 
the same courses as in Pittsburgh. And the same is true for 
a Qatari CS major who wants 
to sample life in Pittsburgh. 
Faculty and staff from Carnegie Mellon will also be able to 
teach at the branch campus in 
Qatar in the near future.
By opening a branch campus, we will expand the size of 
the overall CMU faculty, stated Thorpe. We will have access to more world-class professors, in Pittsburgh and in 
Doha, and will be able to have 
distance seminars and courses 
going both directions.
One of the most important 
goals of establishing the new 
campus, according to those 
involved, is the promotion of 
better understanding between 
nations. The pragmatic advantages of having a campus 
in the Middle East are that, 
since 9/11, it has become more 
dif?cult for young Arab men 
to get U.S. visas, and there is a 
resistance on the part of some 
families to have their children 
travel to the US for education, 
stated Thorpe. The cultural 
advantages to having branch 
campus are huge: this really 
sends a strong practical message that we want to have an 
open dial between very different parts of the world. I spent 
the last week in Qatar talking 
with students and of?cials. 
The feedback is very exciting. 
Indira Nair also looks forward to integrating with Qatar, but warns that Carnegie 
Mellon cant move fast. We 
can be enriched, but we have 
to be re?ective, and work with 
integrity to ensure the best of 
education in both places, looking for opportunities for synergy that would contribute to 
both.
CMU ?nalizes deal with Qatar; becomes newest addition to Doha
The cultural advantages to 
having branch campus are huge: 
this really sends a strong practical 
message that we want to have an 
open dial between very different 
parts of the world.
- Charles Thorpe
After waiting weeks to ?nalize the deal, Carneige Mellon and Qatar ?nally 
come to an agreement for CMU to be incorporated into Education City.

---------------------------------------------------

B6  thetartan.org/special The Tartan  April 7, 2014
20082009
SEPTEMBER 21, 2008
Jun Xian Leong
Two weeks ago, the 
worlds largest particle supercollider, the Large Hadron 
Collider (LHC), of?cially celebrated a milestone in its development when the ?rst particle beams were successfully 
accelerated across its 27-mile 
circumference. The real job 
of the LHC is smashing bits of 
our universe together in the 
hopes of discovering new elementary particles  notably 
the elusive Higgs Boson, and 
possible candidates for dark 
matter particles  which may 
help explain how our universe 
holds itself together.
The Higgs Boson is a hitherto-undetected elementary 
particle that the Standard 
Model predicts to exist and is 
crucial to explaining why particles have mass. Dark matter 
is a similarly undetected form 
of matter which is accountable for nearly 22 percent 
of the unseen mass in space 
holding galaxies together. 
Together, these particles constitute some of the largest 
mysteries in physics today  
mysteries the LHC may soon 
be able to unravel. The LHC 
essentially accelerates two 
beams of protons to energies 
of over seven trillion electron 
volts (TeV) in opposite directions, and then points them 
on a collision course. Upon 
impact, the immense energies 
released cause the constituents of the nuclei to interact, 
releasing elementary particles in a shower of radiation, 
which lasts for mere nanoseconds before decaying. These 
elementary particles created 
during collisions are the focus of massive amounts of 
research, as they are hoped 
to reveal what is truly at the 
heart of matter itself.
While smashing two clocks 
together may not seem like the 
smartest way to learn how 
clocks work, there appears 
to be little other recourse for 
high-energy physicists to learn 
how our world truly works.
Tom Ferguson, a physics 
professor at CMU, has been 
working on the LHC for over 
14 years, from design to prototype to actual production. 
Currently, Carnegie Mellon 
has a team of 11 members led 
by Ferguson working on the 
LHC, including physics professors Helmut Vogel, Manfred 
Paulini, and James Russ, with 
the remainder being post-doctoral and graduate students.
Carnegie Mellons main 
contribution to the LHC lies in 
the construction of the Compact Muon Solenoid (CMS) 
 a 20-meter long, 18-meter 
high detector built for the speci?c purpose of detecting muons, elementary particles produced both during collisions 
and upon the decay of the collision products. Speci?cally, 
CMU constructed the end-cap 
muon chambers for the CMS 
 massive detector chambers 
which capture trails of muons 
as they ?y through matter.
The ability to detect muons and meson momentum 
is a crucial part of the CMS, 
said Vogel, who recently began working on the CMS as 
a part of Fergusons team. 
Many of the elementary particles have decay products 
that contain muons, and detecting these muons can give 
us a very good sense of what 
might have been produced inside, he said.
The muon chambers are 
?lled with a mixture of argon 
and carbon dioxide gas. As a 
muon passes through, it ionizes gas molecules around it, 
leaving a trail of ionized particles in its wake.
The freed electrons drift 
to a mesh of high-voltage 
wires strung across the chamber, which convert them into 
electrical pulses that are 
measured and recorded. The 
choice of gas for the muon 
chambers was an interesting 
one. We could not use a gas 
like, say oxygen, because it 
would be poisonous to the 
electrons, Vogel said. Oxygen is highly electronegative  meaning the electrons 
would be absorbed before 
they could be detected, he 
explained. The gas also 
needs to be non?ammable, 
yet affordable  it is like a 
many-parameter optimization problem, Vogel said.
We built all the electronics that read out these chambers, Ferguson said. There 
is nothing on the market that 
comes even close to the precision we need for these measurements, he said. All in all, 
CMU contributed to the fabrication of over 10,000 chips 
for 150,000 channels of detectors within the CMS alone.
The analysis team that the 
Carnegie Mellon contingent 
is involved in is currently 
researching a fuller understanding of upsilons, which 
are elementary particles that 
have been a subject of interest in high-energy physics for 
several years.
It is clear we do not fully 
understand upsilon production, Ferguson said. We 
hope that by boosting to higher energies, we may be able 
to discover something new 
about these particles.
Ferguson likened his work 
to those of chemists in the 
19th century. [Chemists] 
had all these elements that 
we know the atomic mass, 
the properties and characteristics of, but we do not know 
why they are there, he said. 
After Mendeleev put them in 
a table, he showed there was 
order to the system  and we 
were then able to create new 
elements as predicted by the 
Periodic Table.
Similarly, we now have 
these particles like the Higgs 
Boson that are predicted by 
the Standard Model, and we 
are trying to ?nd them within 
these collisions, Ferguson 
said. Why are they there? 
What is underlying it all? We 
do not know yet, but we are 
hoping this will be the last 
piece of the puzzle.
Whether or not the Higgs 
Boson is ever discovered, 
physicists at large are exceedingly excited about the prospects that the LHC brings. 
Personally, I hope nobody is 
right, Ferguson said. I hope 
we discover something no 
one has predicted  now that 
would be exciting!
Vogel, too, shares his optimism at the prospects of the 
LHC. We expect to detect 
some intricate signatures or 
event topologies that tell us 
what kind of supersymmetric dark matter candidates 
might have been produced, 
he said. For a rappers version of how the LHC operates, Vogel recommends the 
LHC Rap  which happens 
to be scienti?cally accurate 
 accessible by searching for 
LHC rap on YouTube, or at 
the following link: www.msu.
edu/~mcalpin9/lhc_rap/
largehadron.html.
CMU assists in building  Large Hadron Collider
NOVEMBER 3, 2008
Sabrina Porter
Facebook has landed a new 
mapping platform, thanks 
in part to a Carnegie Mellon 
alumnus. Andrew Johnson 
(Tepper 03) and co-founder 
Anna Hentzel received one of 
Facebooks ?rst fbFund grants 
for their application TrailBehind, mapping software 
people can use to plan hiking trips. While Johnson and 
Hentzel are concentrating on 
hiking now, their software 
has the technical capability to 
map any location in the world.
The grant they received 
is part of the fbFund, begun 
this past July, through which 
Facebook plans to award 
$10 million to application 
developers. Johnson and 
Hentzels platform was one 
of 25 to be granted money 
on Oct. 15. They were given 
$25,000 to develop their 
platform and turn it into a 
Facebook application.
[Anna and I] have been 
thinking of this for a long 
time. We go backpacking every or every other weekend, 
Johnson said. Were both 
Facebook users and it was 
always in our plan to make a 
Facebook application.
Johnson and Hentzel are 
both avid hikers with computer programming backgrounds. Johnson previously 
worked at the Carnegie Mellon start-up SureLogic while 
Hentzel worked at Google. 
Johnson and Hentzel registered the company domain, 
(TrailBehind.com), last October, but they really got started 
on the mapping platform this 
April.
TrailBehind will not only 
map trips but will act as a social platform on which hikers 
can share advice, compare 
paths, offer trail opinions, 
and allow users to map out 
and share particular paths 
they have taken.
Johnson and Hentzel began with big parks like Yosemite National Park as well as 
areas they were familiar with, 
particularly in Pittsburgh and 
California. They are hoping 
that they and the users can 
expand the coverage.
Steve Schmitt, a member 
of the board of directors 
at TrailBehind, CEO of 
SureLogic, and a Carnegie 
Mellon alumnus (Heinz 96), 
spoke on the prevalence of 
social networking sites like 
Facebook.
He cited June 2008 statistics from Comstar, one of 
the major web tracking companies. Out of 860 million 
unique visitors to the Internet, 
580 million went to social networking sites, and Facebook 
was by far the most visited.
What were seeing is 
a transformation of how 
people across the globe get 
information, he said. CMU 
is part of that story and it is 
very exciting.
Schmitt, in addition to 
being a CMU alumnus, was 
Johnsons boss at SureLogic. 
Johnson was Schmitts ?rst 
hire and the two worked together for two years.
Schmitt said Facebook 
is now making the transformation from a website to a 
platform, adding that it eventually will become like an operating system, putting every 
function into one place.
Johnson and Hentzel compared the particular role of 
TrailBehind to a Wikipedia 
of hiking and an interactive 
mapping pinboard, as a place 
where users can collaborate 
on hiking trails, compare 
opinions, and share any insights they have on their past 
trails.
What makes [TrailBehind] different is that were 
aggregating data, Hentzel 
said. We have algorithms 
that merge trails between user 
points and rank popularity. 
Hentzel added that the information shared on TrailBehind 
can only be gained from other 
people, not from governmental or national park websites.
Johnson expressed similar 
sentiments as Hentzel, addressing the more complete 
and ef?cient nature of TrailBehind.
Johnson said that while a 
map of all the national parks 
in the Eastern region of the 
United States could cost about 
$150, a map from TrailBehind 
would be free.
We know where all 
the parks are and their basic shapes and sizes. When 
people add information, our 
maps become more complete, Johnson said.
Johnson spoke excitedly 
of the possibility of eventually expanding the mapping 
platform to specialize in more 
areas than hiking as the technical capacity already exists.
If you want to know about 
where to take your dog, hotels 
that are dog-friendly, ?nding 
malls, or social networks, we 
can help you with that, Johnson said.
Charles Johnson, Andrew 
Johnsons father and Managing Member of Verve X3, 
a graphic design ?rm, who 
helped with the software 
development, spoke on the 
challenges TrailBehind will 
face once they expand their 
services.
Were talking about competing with companies like 
Google Earth, Charles Johnson said. There [are] a lot of 
mapping platforms already 
out there.
Charles Johnson spoke 
about what sets them apart 
from their competitors.
This is a more social environment, he said. Its not 
just getting from Point A to 
Point B, but what to expect 
along the way.
Charles Johnson said that 
he has already seen a trend 
in people wanting to know 
about the journey, from people wanting to know weather 
hour-by-hour to constant traf?c updates.
Johnson and Hentzel both 
spoke on the importance of 
their application and on their 
enjoyment of their work.
For me, the most exciting part is doing something 
I like, Hentzel said. We already use it on our camping 
trips.
Johnson dreams of the site 
being the top hit on Google 
for mapping of all kinds.
But for now, the focus remains on hiking.
The application, TrailBehind, is available on Facebook. More information can 
be found at TrailBehind.com
Facebook gives CMU hikers $25,000 for mapping platform
APRIL 13, 2009
Destiny Ridguard
A crowd gathered in McConomy Auditorium last Monday. Composed of Sneakerology 101 students, faculty, 
staff, University of Pittsburgh 
students, and other members 
of the community, the crowd 
waited as Robert Bobbito 
Garcia scribbled a series of 
words on the blackboard.
Garcia was the guest lecturer brought in by the StuCo 
Sneakerology 101, possibly 
the only class in America that 
has a curriculum covering 
sneakers from Converse to 
Creative Recreations.
The instructors, Carnegie 
Mellon seniors Elliot Curtis, 
a decision science major, and 
Jesse Chorng, an economics 
major, were front row, 
center, ready to receive more 
knowledge.
Before the introductions, 
Curtis said, This man is a 
legend, a true a?cionado, and 
to have him here is beyond 
amazing. I just want to thank 
everyone who helped to make 
this possible, and continue to 
do what Bob says: expose the 
unexposed.
This is an amazing opportunity to show everyone what 
we can do and what he has 
done. It will give our students 
some perspective on what Elliot and I try and teach in the 
classroom, said Chorng.
When he was done writing 
on the board, Garcia turned 
around, and the text of his Tshirt read, Whered You Get 
Those?: New Yorks Sneaker 
Culture from 19671980, the 
title of his September 2003 
book, an anthropological oral 
history that describes the 
functionality and fashion of 
sneakers during this era.
On his feet were the LeBron 
6 sneakers, in navy blue and 
white.
He credited his editors in 
helping him create the book 
used as the text for Sneakerology 101.
Garcia, born in 1966 in 
New York City, is also known 
as DJ Cucumberslice, Bobbito 
The Barber, Make It Happen, 
Boogie Bob, Kool Bob Love, 
Soul Food Bob, and Bag of 
Tricks.
After graduating from Wesleyan University in 1988 and 
playing professional basketball in Puerto Rico, he began 
working at Def Jam and cohosted the Stretch Armstrong 
and Bobbito Show on WKCR 
89.9 FM from 1990 to 1998.
His show featured exclusive demo tapes and in-studio 
freestyles from many thenunsigned artists, such as Nas, 
Big Pun, Wu-Tang Clan, Big L, 
Fugees, and Notorious B.I.G., 
who later found great success 
on major record labels.
In addition to DJing all over 
the world, Garcia remains an 
editor, writer, cultural critic, 
streetballer, sneakerhead, and 
member of the Rock Steady 
Crew.
Garcia said that a collector is someone who collects 
sneakers similar to [the way 
someone would collect] art, 
stamps, or coins.
He described sneakers as 
a re?ection of your own personality, and said that a connection with your shoes is a 
connection with others.
He began a 45-slide PowerPoint presentation that featured pictures from his book.
Garcia provided facts and 
?gures, prices of pairs, where 
they were sold, relevant athlete endorsements, and information about why certain 
color combinations claimed 
attention in the public sphere.
He used his slides to explain the evolution of sneaker 
culture, which featured different pairs of shoes and basketball players who contributed 
to this localized grassroots 
movement of street ball and 
sneaker culture.
When asked what surprised him about speaking 
at Carnegie Mellon, Garcia 
said, Im a humble dude, but 
I didnt expect to see my face 
big up there on the screen.
I was shocked. I had seen 
the poster, but man, oh goodness. And were not in a classroom; this is an auditorium. 
One-hundred plus people 
were here, and not just CMU, 
Garcia said.
I thought wed be in a 
classroom, you know 30 
people, but this is on a much 
grander scale than I imagined. I knew there would be 
students from the class, but 
people from Pitt and folk from 
the city came out.
Along with Garcias visit 
to the campus, there is other 
evidence of the widespread 
and growing popularity of the 
Sneakerology 101 class.
The StuCo has been picked 
up by many blogs and websites, such as (www.hypebeast.com), where the class 
and the sneakers are given 
high marks.
A special event, Kicksburgh 
2009, is planned to feature 
the limited edition Sneakerology Reebok Reverse Jams, of 
which only 101 will be made 
and sold.
The event kicks off at 5 p.m. 
in Skibo Gym this Wednesday 
and will include live music, 
art, and a break-dancing performance, as well as other 
clothing and sneaker vendors 
and an opportunity to donate 
to The Hill House Association.
Sneakerology 101 gains nationwide acclaim, draws speaker
Celia Ludwinski
Bobbito Garcia spoke to students, faculty, staff, and guests in McConomy. 
Courtesy of kicksburgh.com 
Johnson 
dreams of 
the site being 
the top hit on 
Google for 
mapping of all 
kinds.

---------------------------------------------------

April 7, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/special  B720122013
AUGUST 26, 2012
Justin McGown
The FBI of?cially indicted Adam Stuart Busby on 
Aug. 22 for sending over 40 
threatening emails to the 
University of Pittsburgh last 
year. Busbys emails were 
part of a series of over 100 
bomb threats issued to Pitt 
throughout the spring semester. Busby, the founder of the 
Scottish National Liberation 
Army, is currently in an Irish 
prison awaiting an extradition hearing for threats he allegedly made about airliners 
travelling between London 
and New York City.
According to a statement 
on the FBIs website, Busby 
is indicted on 35 counts: 
17 counts of wire fraud, 16 
counts of maliciously conveying false information in the 
form of bomb threats, and 
two counts of international 
extortion.
In addition to the Pitt 
bomb threats, Busby has 
been charged with sending 
emails in 2010 threatening to 
poison water supplies in England, and speci?cally Gordon 
Brown, who was prime minister of the United Kingdom 
at the time. The 64-year-old 
Scottish nationalist is known 
mainly for his hoaxes; while 
the Scottish National Liberation Army has carried out or 
attempted more overt acts of 
terrorism in the past, Busby 
suffers from multiple sclerosis 
and is bound to a wheelchair.
I was not in the least bit 
surprised [by the charges], 
David Leslie, a retired Scottish reporter who personally 
knows Busby, said in a Pittsburgh Post-Gazette article. 
His motive is publicity. Busby glories in publicity. He will 
target anyone or any organization that he feels will gain 
him publicity.
Busbys motive is unclear. 
The FBI declined to speculate about his reasoning, and 
Busby has no direct connection to either the university 
or the city. In his interview, 
Leslie told the Post-Gazette 
that it was likely not a deeply 
thought-out action, and was 
possibly inspired by the presence of a UPMC hospital in 
Dublin.
While the threats Busby 
has been charged with were 
some of the most prominent 
of those made against Pitt, 
nobody has been charged for 
the other threats, including 
the initial ones written inside bathrooms on campus. 
Pitt rescinded its offer of a 
$50,000 reward for information after a group calling itself the Threateners, now 
identi?ed as Busby, claimed 
responsibility for some of the 
threats and demanded that 
the reward be removed.
Extradition from Ireland 
is historically hard to accomplish, and authorities in both 
the U.S. and the U.K. seem 
to view Busby as a nuisance 
more than anything, according to Leslies interview with 
the Post-Gazette. The FBI did 
not make any statements regarding extradition. Leslie 
believes that the U.S. will 
likely not push hard for Busbys extradition.
In his of?cial statement, 
Pitt Chancellor Mark Nordenberg thanked local and 
federal law enforcement 
as well as the Pitt community for their support during the bomb threat ?asco. 
He cited examples of people 
who went out of their way to 
help, including a canine of?cer from McKeesport who 
made late-night trips on his 
own time to perform bomb 
sweeps, and faculty members 
who patrolled doorways and 
conducted classes on campus 
lawns.
Everyone in the University of Pittsburgh community is 
deeply grateful for the many 
forms of help that were extended to us while our campus was under siege and for 
all of the hard work that was 
done, Nordenberg said in 
the statement.
Although Busbys indictment has provided some answers, many students remain 
puzzled.
Carnegie Mellon sophomore computer science major 
Eric Lee said, Considering 
that no bombs were actually 
detonated at the school, it 
seems almost ?tting that the 
threats were as random as 
they were pointless.
Some, like Pitt ?rst-year 
engineering major Erin Sarosi, are just happy to see progress. Sarosi applied to Pitt 
while the threats were occurring. It wasnt hindering me 
from going here, Sarosi said. 
I think its still a pretty safe 
campus.
Suspect in bomb threat case indictedPolaris Moon rover rolled out for Lunar Robot open house
OCTOBER 7, 2012
Jennifer Golda
Pittsburgh-based space 
robotics company Astrobotic 
Technology, Inc. rolled out 
the ?rst prototype of its lunar 
ice prospecting robot, Polaris, 
in the Gates Center at its ?rst 
of?cial public unveiling.
As a part of the Cilidh 
Weekend festivities, the Lunar 
Robot Open House brought 
students, staff, family, and 
alumni around a stage that 
held Polaris as William Red 
Whittaker spoke about the 
rover. A Robotics Institute 
professor and Astrobotics 
CEO, Whittaker described 
the goal of Polaris: to explore 
the vast underground water 
and gas resources discovered 
as ice on the Moon two years 
ago.
Polaris, equipped with a 
drill and other prospecting 
equipment, can answer questions about the gas that satellite data cannot. What is it, 
what is it made of, where is 
it, what is its concentration, 
can you extract it, can you use 
it? Whittaker said. [Polaris] 
changes everything.
Answering these questions 
could have a large impact on 
the future of space exploration. This polar ice, when 
utilized, can transform the 
whole direction of space exploration, Whittaker said. 
Because see, if you could refuel after leaving the Earth, 
you can go anywhere. But to 
learn how to use this extraterrestrial gas to fuel travel beyond our current limits, Whittaker explained we must ?rst 
travel to the Moon.
And this will be dif?cult, 
he said, because the rover will 
be completely autonomous. 
Without radio GPS and remote control, the robot will 
have to compare its surroundings to satellite images of the 
Moons surface to determine 
its location. It will have to see 
and maneuver around rocks 
larger than 15 centimeters 
or roughly the size of a bowling ball  that could obstruct 
its path. Perhaps the most 
dif?cult challenge is how the 
solar-powered Polaris would 
balance operating in areas 
that not only have ice, but also 
sunlight.
In October 2015, Astrobotic plans to send Polaris to a 
carefully chosen location near 
the Moons northern pole. 
Like the Earth, the Moons 
region with the most frozen 
resources is also its coldest 
and darkest: the poles. The 
rover must utilize complex algorithms to predict when and 
where shadows will fall as it 
travels the surface and as the 
Moon changes positions. For 
the mission to be a success, 
the rover needs to detect both 
ice and sunlight.
Polaris also needs to be 
able to successfully land, and 
to achieve this, Astrobotic is 
also developing a high-precision lander. Once the lander 
and its payload near the desired region of the Moons 
surface, it will slow down and 
hover for about four days before it decides where to land 
and make its slow descent.
In addition to accuracy, 
the lander will also boast 
versatility. Kevin Peterson, a 
Ph.D. student in robotics who 
has worked on the project 
for two years, explained the 
many features of the landers 
design.
... this lander is designed 
for this rover, [but also] for the 
smaller rover and for carrying 
payloads underneath. We 
can go without a rover all 
together, as long as we are 
within our mass constraints, 
which are fairly large, 
actually, Peterson said. That 
lets us design one lander 
and then go out and ?nd a 
payload. This will allow the 
company, which is already 
receiving $1 million a year 
from NASA alone, to easily 
commercialize its lander to 
other Moon-goers.
The companys goal is not 
to win the X PRIZE; it is to 
commercialize space, Aaron 
Acton said, referring to the 
Google Lunar X PRIZE, the 
largest contest of its kind in 
history. 
Acton has been working 
on the project for more than 
three years, ever since he began his masters in mechanical engineering. As part of 
that goal, to win the X PRIZE, 
would be great, he added.
According to Googles X 
PRIZE website, A total of $30 
million in prizes are available 
to the ?rst privately funded 
teams to safely land a robot on 
the surface of the Moon, have 
that robot travel 500 meters 
over the lunar surface, and 
send video, images, and data 
back to the Earth.
Astrobotic was founded 
shortly after the announcement of the contest in 2008, 
and is determined to compete 
with 26 other groups. With its 
team of over a dozen Carnegie 
Mellon students and alumni, 
the company is preparing to 
move to a new location so that 
it can expand its research and 
operations.
Jonathan Carreon/Contributing Editor
Alumni gather around William Red Whittaker in the Gates Center during Cilidh Weekend as he presents 
Polaris, a lunar rover that will prospect the underground water and gas resources discovered as ice on the 
moon two years ago. 
Town hall to discuss CMUs expansion toward Craig Street
APRIL 29, 2013
Chloe Thompson
Attendees of an open Town 
Hall discussed the fate of Craig 
Street on Wednesday.
Led by Vice President for 
Campus Affairs Michael Murphy, the Town Hall informed 
the audience and the Simonds 
Commission  which is the 
group of trustees, faculty, and 
senior administrators responsible for new projects and renovations to Carnegie Mellon 
properties  about the development plan for Craig Street. 
The Town Hall also served as 
a forum for community members to discuss their own opinions on the project.
Carnegie Mellon owns and 
leases several properties in the 
Craig Street area, including 
the recently acquired diocesan 
property near Central Catholic 
High School on Fifth Avenue.
The Institutional Master 
Plan for Carnegie Mellon outlines the future development 
of the campus and properties 
held by the university in the 
surrounding area. Murphy 
stressed the universitys desire 
to strike a balance between 
collegiate interests and those 
of the community: We have 
to have the right mission, the 
right balance, [so Craig Street 
is] CMU-centric and a modern 
destination of choice.
A possible roadblock in 
the projects development 
is the zoning designation of 
Carnegie Mellons various 
properties. The campus 
falls under an Educational/
Medical/Institutional (EMI) 
zone, which means that the 
university is at much greater 
liberty to do what they like 
with the property. Much of the 
property in the Craig Street 
area is part of a residential or 
business zone, which means 
that the university has to work 
with more restrictions.
Despite these possible constraints, Murphy was adamant 
that the university has no 
plans to fundamentally alter 
Craig Street. Were not talking about changing functionality, were not talking about 
throwing anyone out of their 
place, he said.
Senior materials science 
and engineering and biomedical engineering double major 
Sohini Bianka Roy attended 
the meeting as a representative of the undergraduate 
Student Senate, and discussed 
the stake of students in this 
matter.
The goal was essentially 
to have some kind of Tartan 
pride, she said. When you 
walk down to the University 
of Pittsburghs campus, you 
see that Go Panthers, you 
see that pride, and we felt 
that Craig Street is kind of like 
our own little corridor street. 
Murphy then opened the ?oor 
to the audience, asking What 
is your vision for Craig Street?
The audience had a wide 
variety of suggestions, such as 
having retailers selling Carnegie Mellon merchandise, 
having some Carnival events 
there, or having a visual connection to the school, such as 
painted thistles on sidewalks.
Murphy said that the current plan for representation 
of the university was to keep 
symbols subtle yet iconic.
Another popular idea was 
asking businesses to stay open 
an hour or two later some 
nights.
As one attendee pointed 
out, [Craig Street is] a place 
where students could go, but 
then the hours would have to 
match their weeks.
The idea of closing down 
traf?c on Craig Street to create a place for students to congregate was also suggested. 
Director of the Remaking Cities Institute and member of 
the Simonds Commission Don 
Carter said that the Commission had investigated this possibility, but the museums on 
Craig Street needed the space 
to let their patrons exit on the 
weekends. 
The audience consisted of 
mostly faculty, but all were 
clearly passionate about the 
project. Assistant Vice President for Diversity and Equal 
Opportunity Services Everett 
Tademy said, Im invested in 
the project because Carnegie 
Mellon is invested in it.
Director of Facilities Management Services and professor of civil and environmental 
engineering Don Coffelt was 
invested in the project as a faculty member and a resident of 
the Craig Street area.
He expressed enthusiasm 
about the project, saying, I 
think the only complicating 
factor is its going to take time. 
Because its complex, and you 
dont want to get it wrong.... It 
would be harder to ?x if we got 
it wrong than it is to go slowly 
and make sure we get it right.
 Haley Bryant/Staff Photographer
The future relationship of Craig Street and Carnegie Mellon opened for 
discussion at last weeks town hall. 
Past student talks stress
MARCH 25, 2013
Oren M. Spiegler
I read with great interest 
of the forum that was conducted on campus pursuant 
to the suicide of a student 
and the issue of the pressure and competitive nature 
of the institution rising to 
the fore.
It is obvious to me that 
nothing has changed at 
Carnegie Mellon since I attended from 1974 through 
1977.
Perhaps my ?rst mistake was to have attended 
the school out of a sense 
of duty to my late mother, 
Gloria Siegle Spiegler, a 
distinguished 1943 alum 
from the School of Music, 
who enjoyed a wonderful 
and gratifying career as piano performer and teacher. 
Mother treasured her days 
at what was then Carnegie 
Tech.
I was accustomed to being one of the students that 
excelled in elementary and 
high school, but found that 
at Carnegie Mellon, I was 
no longer anything special 
as one forgotten member 
of a group of brilliant individuals. I was taken aback 
by the lack of individual 
instruction, attending lectures with many times the 
number of students as there 
were in my high school 
classes. It was easy to get 
lost among the masses in 
these huge lecture classes. 
I also had great dif?culty 
in comprehension and absorption of material delivered by teaching assistants 
that had poor English skills, 
something to which I was 
not at all accustomed.
I felt that there was little, 
if any, help for the student 
that found the atmosphere 
at Carnegie Mellon to be as 
challenging and intimidating as I did. 
I went on to attend and 
graduate from Robert Morris 
University with a degree 
in Business Administration 
and to a successful career 
in the public sector which 
continues after almost three 
decades. I have a soft spot 
in my heart for the school 
predicated upon what 
it meant to my beloved 
mother (and I donated 
her two prized pianos to 
Carnegie Mellon upon her 
death in 2005), but CMU 
was not a factor in any of my 
achievements.
His motive 
is publicity. 
Busby glories 
in publicity. 
He will target 
anyone or any 
organization 
that he feels 
will gain him 
publicity.
- David Leslie

---------------------------------------------------

B8  thetartan.org/special The Tartan  April 7, 2014
Alumni Calendar
Carnival Weekend 2014 Event Locations
The following list includes some events that are 
exclusively available to alumni or that encourage 
alumni attendance. A schedule of general Carnival events can be seen in the Pillbox Carnival calendar on page C15. For a full list, visit the Alumni 
Association website.
AB
AB Tech Alumni & Student Mixer
Saturday, 2:30 - 4:30 p.m., Alumni Lounge, 
University Center
Alpha Phi
Alpha Phi Alumnae Luncheon
Saturday, 12:00 - 1:30 p.m., Alpha Phi House, 
1079 Morewood Avenue
Alumni Association
All Alumni Happy Hour, hosted by the Pittsburgh Alumni Chapter
Thursday, 5 - 8 p.m., Marios East Side, 5442 
Walnut Street
Ballroom Dance Club
Ballroom Dance Club Alumni Reception
Saturday, 2 - 5 p.m., Activities Room, University Center
Beta Sigma Corporation
Beta Sigma Corporation Annual Meeting
Saturday 12 - 3 p.m., Giant Eagle Auditorium, 
Baker Hall
Biomedical Engineering Department
Biomedical Engineering Alumni Reception
Saturday, 2 - 4 p.m., Room 2100, Doherty Hall
Buggy Alumni Association
Buggy Alumni Association Reception
Friday, 12:30-2 p.m., Frew Street Alumni 
Association Welcome Tent (Rain Location: 
Baker Lounge)
Friday and Saturday, 7 a.m. - 12 p.m., Buggy 
Alumni Association Welcome Tent
Carnegie Institute of Technology
CIT Carnival Alumni Brunch
Friday, 9 - 11 a.m, Singleton Room, Roberts 
Engineering Hall
Carnegie Mellon Black Alumni Association
Carnegie Mellon Black Alumni Association 
(CMBAA) Lunch & Meeting
Saturday, 11:30 a.m. - 1:30 p.m., Room 100, 
Gregg Hall, Porter Hall
Carnegie Tech Radio Club
Carnegie Tech Radio Club 100th Anniversary 
Celebration
Thursday, 5 - 8 p.m., Singleton Room, Roberts 
Engineering Hall
Chemical Engineering Department
ChemE Alumni, Faculty & Student Mixer
Friday, 2 - 3 p.m., A100 Rothfus Lab, Doherty 
Hall
cmuOUT
cmuOUT Alumni Network Happy Hour
Friday, 6 - 8 p.m., 5801 Video Lounge & Caf, 
5801 Ellsworth Avenue
Delta Delta Delta
Delta Delta Delta Alumnae Brunch
Saturday, 11 a.m.- 1 p.m., Delta Delta Delta 
House, 1071 Morewood Avenue
Delta Gamma
Delta Gamma Alumnae Tea
Saturday, 11:30 a.m. - 1:30 p.m., Delta Gamma 
Beta Nu House, 5032 Forbes Avenue
Delta Tau Delta
Delta Tau Delta Alumni vs. Undergrad Football 
Event
Saturday, 12 - 4 p.m., Delta Tau Delta House, 
1060 Morewood Avenue
Delta Upsilon
Delta Upsilon Dinner
Friday, 8:30 p.m., Primanti Bros., 3803 Forbes 
Avenue
Dietrich College
Dietrich College Reception
Saturday, 11 a.m. -  1:30 p.m., Terrace Tent, 
Baker Hall
Heinz College
Heinz Alumni, Faculty, Student Reception
Saturday, 3 - 5 p.m., Foyer, Hamburg Hall
Hispanic-Latino Alumni Association
Hispanic-Latino Alumni Association (HLAA) 
Networking Reception & Argentine Tango 
Experience
Saturday, 1:30 - 3 p.m., Tartans Pavilion
Information Systems
IS Block Party
Friday, 4 - 5:30 p.m., Room 222, IS Conference 
Room, Porter Hall
Kappa Alpha Theta
Kappa Alpha Theta Alumnae Brunch and Ice 
Cream Social 
Saturday, 10 a.m. - 12 p.m., Kappa Alpha Theta 
House, 1077 Morewood Avenue
Kappa Kappa Gamma
Kappa Kappa Gamma Alumnae Lunch Saturday, 3:30 - 4:30 p.m., Kappa Kappa Gamma 
House, 1065 Morewood Avenue
KGB
KGB Defectors Party
Saturday, 2 - 6 p.m., Dining Hall, Stever House
Kiltie Band Alumni & Student Reception
Thursday, 4:30 - 6:30 p.m., Alumni Lounge, 
University Center
Maggie Murph
Maggie Murph Reception
Friday, 3 - 4 p.m., Maggie Murph Caf, Hunt 
Library
Mechanical Engineering
5th Annual Materials Science & Engineering 
Alumni Carnival Deck Party
Friday, 4 - 6 p.m., 3300 Corridor, Wean Hall
Phi Kappa Theta/Chi Omega
Off Campus Phi Kappa Theta/Chi Omega 
1970s (plus or minus) Reunion
Friday, 7 p.m., Lounge/Bar Area, Wyndham 
Pittsburgh University Center, 100 Lytton 
Avenue
Pi Kappa Alpha
Pi Kappa Alpha Luncheon 
Friday, 12 - 3 pm, Connan Room, University 
Center
ROTC
ROTC & Military Alumni Welcome Tent 
Saturday, 9:30 a.m. - 12 p.m.Frew Street
School of Architecture
School of Architecture Lunch & Expose of Current Work
Saturday, 11:30 a.m. - 2 p.m., Room C7, Digital 
Fabrication Lab, Margaret Morrison
School of Computer Science
SCS/ECE Spring Carnival Alumni Reception
Saturday, 1 - 3 p.m., Room 6115, Gates Hillman Center
School of Design
Design Alumni Reception
Saturday, 1:30 - 3 p.m., Room 111, Margaret 
Morrison
Science & Humanities Scholars
Science & Humanities Scholars Alumni & 
Student Reception (SHS alumni & students 
only)
Saturday, 12 - 2 p.m., First Floor, Stever House
ScotchnSoda 
Brunch & Gala, Rangos Ballroom, University 
Center
Saturday Brunch: 11:30 am (Adults: $15; 
Students: $10) 
Saturday Gala: 6 pm (Adults: $25; Students: 
$15)
Performance: The 25th Annual Putnam 
County Spelling Bee
Thu. Apr 10, 8:00 p.m., Fri. Apr 11, 2:00 p.m. 
and 11 p.m., Sat. Apr 12, 2:00 p.m.
Senate
Senate Alumni Brunch
Saturday, 10 a.m. - 12 p.m., Donner Dell (Rain 
Location: Room 103, Breed Hall, Margaret 
Morrison)
Sigma Alpha Epsilon
SAEs 40th Annual Kickoff to Spring Carnival
Thursday, 9 p.m, Sonnys Tavern, 630 S. 
Millvale
Dinner with Mystery Sandwiches at SAE
Friday, 6 p.m., Sigma Alpha Epsilon House, 
1085 Morewood Avenue
Spring Carnival Committee
Current & Former Spring Carnival Committee 
Reception
Saturday, 1 - 3 p.m., Danforth Lounge, University Center
Student Dormitory Council
SDC Alumni Social
Friday, 2 - 4 p.m., Danforth Lounge, University 
Center
Tepper School of Business
Tepper School Reunion Registration
Friday, 2 - 7 p.m., Main Lobby, Tepper School 
of Business
Saturday, 8 a.m. - 3 p.m., Rachel Mellon Walton Room, Tepper School of Business
Tepper All-Class Reunion Celebration at Heinz 
Field
Saturday, 6:30 - 10 p.m., Heinz Field, East Club 
Lounge, 100 Art Rooney Avenue
The Tartan
The Tartan Alumni Panel and Reception
Saturday, 3 - 5 p.m., Room 314, Tartan Newsroom, University Center
WRCT
WRCT Student-Alumni Meet-up 
Saturday, 1 - 3 p.m., Located at the WRCT 88.3 
Station
Other events
Decade of the 1980s Reception 
Saturday, 5 - 7 p.m., Connan Room, University 
Center
Young Alumni Happy Hour
Saturday, 4 - 6 p.m., Tartan Pavilion

---------------------------------------------------

04.07.14 Volume 108, Issue 23

---------------------------------------------------

5
Comics
Spring is on the brains of this weeks 
comics selection.
11
Dollar Movie
AB Films presents Frozen and Sharknado as 
Carnival fare.
4
Paperhouse
Paperhouse talks about the upcoming Carnival 
concert.
5
The Tartan . Box 119 . UC Suite 103 . Carnegie Mellon University . 5000 Forbes Ave . Pittsburgh, PA 15213 . www.thetartan.org .  2014 The Tartan
PUBLISHER Rachel Cohen EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Braden Kelner
PILLBOX EDITOR Joey Peiser ASSISTANT PILLBOX EDITOR Jenna Bodnar COMICS EDITOR Maryyann Landlord 
ART EDITOR Michelle Wan PHOTO EDITOR Jonathan Leung
COPY MANAGER James Wu COVER Braden Kelner
6
8
regulars...
Advice
Everything you need to know about Carnival 
and senioritis.
3
...diversions
...this week only
GoT
Premiere sets the scene for exciting new 
season.
3
Gutenberg!
School of Drama production provides lots of 
historical laughs.
4
HIMYM
The How I Met Your Mother finale doesnt live 
up to nine years of expectations.
5
Prima Facie
The 2014 Spirit Fashion Show tackles social 
issues, as well as high fashion.
6
Midway Map
Dont get lost amongst the towering booths 
thanks to this handy map.
8
Carnival Traditions
A few old traditions are making a return for this 
years 100th anniversary celebration.
10
Carnival History
A brief history of Carnival so you can impress 
people you wont remember talking to.
10
Puzzles
Keep your mind sharp this Carnival with our 
super challenging puzzles.
13
Horoscopes
Look into the page and see what the universe 
has in store for you this week.
14
Calendar
Theres a lot to do this week, so check out the 
calendar to plan your time.
15

---------------------------------------------------

television
pillbox 04.07.143
Do you dare play the game?
Game of Thrones begins a promising fourth season
Warning: This article contains spoilers for the first 
episode of season four of Game of Thrones.
The dragons are bigger, the stakes are higher, and 
the numbers become smaller with each episode. 
Season four of the wildly popular Game of Thrones 
premiered Sunday night, and with it came promise 
of a season full of twists, turns, and, of course, 
bloodshed.
Based on the book series A Song of Ice and Fire by 
George R.R. Martin, the hit HBO show is set in the 
fictional continents of Westoros and Essos as their 
inhabitants fight for control of the Iron Throne.
But the road to power and glory is lined with the 
lives of those who were unsuccessful, because when 
you play the game of thrones, you either win or you 
die.
This was a lesson learned the hard way by Robb 
Stark (Richard Madden), his mother Catelyn 
(Michelle Fairley), and his wife Talisa (Oona Chaplin) 
in one of the shows most gruesome scenes from last 
season, dubbed The Red Wedding.
Last seasons finale Mhysa saw the fallout from the 
tragedy and brought many of the storylines if not to 
a close, then to a nice pause.
This weeks episode, Two Swords picks up 
as Kings Landing is preparing for the wedding 
between King Joffrey (Jack Gleeson) and Margaery 
Tyrell (Natalie Dormer).
Tyrion Lannister (Peter Dinklage) has his hands 
full dealing with the arrival of the Dornish Prince, 
but not the one they are expecting. Prince Oberyn 
(Pedro Pascal) is there to exact revenge against the 
Lannisters for the death of his sister.
Tyrions wife, Sansa (Sophie Turner) is 
understandably struggling after the murder of her 
brother and mother. In a particularly touching scene, 
Tyrion plays the good husband and tries to convince 
her to carry on for the sake of her mother, but to no 
avail.
Her bastard brother Jon Snow (Kit Harington) 
doesnt have much time to mourn his late halfbrother before he is put before a council of the 
Nights Watch to answer for his transgressions last 
season.
Hes admitted to his time with the Wildlings, 
especially Ygritte (Rose Leslie), but is upset that his 
brothers dont seem to believe his warnings of an 
oncoming war from beyond the Wall.
The despicable King Joffrey proved once again that 
hes more interested in looking like a king than 
actually acting like one, by ignoring his duties and, 
instead, tormenting his uncle Jaime (Nikolaj CosterWaldeu).
Daenerys Targaryen (Emilia Clarke), Mother of 
Dragons, Khaleesi, and one of the most impressive 
characters on the show, continues her mission of 
amassing an army large enough to invade Westoros 
and take back the kingdom she believes is right fully 
hers.
In the meantime, she is beginning to discover that 
even the most devoted mothers cannot always tame 
their children  be they dragons or men.
As can only be expected, it was an episode for the 
viewer to play catch-up, focusing more on laying 
the groundwork for the major storylines this season. 
Although lacking in any major excitement, the 
Game of Thrones season four premiere was the 
perfect episode after a long break
Mairad Pettit | Personnel Manager 
Eunice Oh | Staff Artist
Advice for awkward people
Dear Matt & Ryan,
Carnival! Carnival! 
Carnival! Its here! I 
thought Id be moving on 
my sororitys booth in the 
rain on Friday, but I didnt! 
Instead Im just slaved to 
building the damn thing 
for the next 72 hours, 
which is oh so wonderful. 
I cant wait to watch all 
the happy children climb 
around this carefully 
constructed junge gym 
of fun! Carnival! Im 
so happy! Sunshine! 
Rainbows! Kittens!
Sincerely,
Unbelievably Naive Into 
Carnival, Operating Really 
No Sleep
Dear UNICORNS,
It is wonderful that you 
are so excited about 
Carnival, we too have been 
checking isitcarnivalyet.com 
constantly for the last two 
weeks. Which is probably 
the reason that we both got 
zeros on our midterms, but 
that doesnt matter! Spring 
has come again. We will get 
to eat artery-clogging statefair food in the Morewood 
parking lot! Both of us have 
been looking forward to 
our last Carnival here at 
Carnegie Mellon, and are 
kinda glad that we dont 
have to see Carnival moved 
next to the CFA parking lot.
Seriously, a Ferris-wheel 
view of the University 
Center isnt as cool as 
one of Gates.
Ryan & Matt
Dear Ryan & Matt,
Im really surprised that 
although both of you are 
seniors, and have plans 
for after graduation, 
you are still as invested 
in everything as youve 
ever been! What is your 
secret? Im dying to know 
so that I can be as good 
a senior as you two next 
year.
Sincerely, 
Nebby, Attached, Student 
Activity Leader
Dear NASAL,
To answer your question, 
the reason that we are 
as good of seniors as we 
were sophomores and 
juniors is that we both really 
want to graduate, and get 
out of here. Dont get us 
wrong, Carnegie Mellon 
has been a great place to 
get an education, but we 
are ready to do something 
else with our lives. Matt got 
that scuba-diving job, and 
Ryan is eloping with his 
roommates girlfriend. As 
such, we both have caught 
a case of senioritis ahead of 
our last Carnival as students, 
and have decided to enjoy 
April in Pittsburgh. This is 
our last advice column. We 
are sorry to no longer be 
able to offer sage advice to 
all you awkward members of 
the Tartan audience, but all 
good things must come to 
an end.
Well always live on in 
your memories, however 
terrible our puns were. 
With love,
Matt & Ryan
Need advice? Send queries 
to advice@thetartan.org.
About Carnival and being a super duper senior

---------------------------------------------------

4theatre
pillbox 04.07.14
Many School of Drama productions have somber themes 
and leave the audience pondering deep subjects, such 
as the meaning of time or humans relationship with 
mortality. Gutenberg! The Musical, however, was a 
breath of fresh air. The acting, as always, was wonderful, 
the sets were simplistic but representative of the tone 
of the production, the story was creative yet easy to 
understand, and the dialogue was absolutely hilarious.
The musical is about Doug Simon, played by junior 
musical theatre major Harron Atkins, and Bud 
Davenport, played by junior musical theatre major Erron 
Crawford, two young and energetic dreamers who have 
written a musical about the inventor of the printing 
press, Johann Gutenberg. Unfortunately, they did not 
realize that there is, ironically, very little historical 
information to be found about Gutenberg. So rather than 
choosing a new topic, they decide to write a historical 
?ction musical and make up the story of how Gutenberg 
invented the printing press.
Bud and Doug perform the play for the audience in 
hopes that there may be a Broadway producer in the 
audience who would like to help put the show on the 
big stage. However, since the ambitious writers are 
young and inexperienced, they do not have a cast or an 
orchestra, so they must play the role of every character. 
Both actors wore baseball hats with the name of their 
character written on the top so the audience could 
always tell who each actor was portraying. Sometimes 
they wore several hats at once and would take them off 
or put them back on to change characters. Another way 
they distinguished between characters was by using 
different accents. However, these accents didnt always 
make explicit sense. For example, some characters had 
Cockney accents, some had American accents, some 
were just high-pitched, etc. In addition, Bud and Doug 
cannot afford fancy props or sets, so everyday items such 
as cardboard boxes, crates, bicycle pumps, and stuffed 
cats were used as props.
The limited set and the two-man show, along with senior 
biology and music performance double major Angela Lo 
accompanying on the piano, made for quite a spectacle 
and a really funny performance.
The story itself was just as humorous, ?lled with 
characters such as the overly malicious Monk who 
wants to stop Gutenberg from building a printing press 
out of a fear that the commoners might be able to read 
and interpret the Bible for themselves. The Monk has a 
stereotypical henchman at his side, and the two wreak 
havoc throughout the town. The Monk adds another 
source of humor, especially with lines like, What a 
cute cat! I think Ill name him Satan. I love Satan. 
Another memorable character that adds humor to the 
story was Helvetica, Gutenbergs young, beautiful, 
bodacious assistant who pines for him and despairs over 
unrequited love.
Between scenes, and in place of an intermission, Bud 
and Doug would break character to explain what was 
going on to the audience and give a quick preview of 
what was to come next. This served the purposes of 
allowing them to change scenes, keep the audience 
on the same page, and to add even more humor in the 
dialogue. Also, before the show started, Bud and Doug 
were seen setting up the stage and arguing about where 
to place a line of tape on the ?oor. At ?rst, it was unclear 
if this conversation was part of the show or if it was 
real, but the audience laughed listening to the banter 
between the two characters.
Overall, this production was very enjoyable and de?nitely 
worth the free price of admission. In a particularly 
high-stress time of year with lots of projects and tests 
piling up, Gutenberg! The Musical provided a happy 
distraction. Laughter is de?nitely a great form of stress 
relief, and this production had the audience laughing 
from start to ?nish. The songs were surprisingly 
catchy, the acting spot-on, the story easy to follow 
and understand, and the characters engaging. This 
show proved that a huge cast, an elaborate set, and an 
orchestral score are not necessary for an entertaining 
show, and also spoke to the power of a strong story line.
Jenna Bodnar | Assistant Pillbox Editor
Gutenberg! The Musical makes history hilarious
Fun School of Drama production provides welcome respite from pre-Carnival stress
dollarmovieMcConomy Auditorium, University CenterAndie Park | Staffwriter
If youre one of the three people who doesnt know the lyrics to Let It Go, it might 
be time to check out Frozen, the latest Disney animated feature ?lm thats been taking 
over the world by winter storm. Elsa (Idina Menzel), princess of Arendelle, has the 
magical ability to create ice and snow. While it seems like a dream come true, Elsa 
resents herself because of the harm she bears to her younger sister, Anna (Kristin 
Bell). Due to Elsas fear, she decides to isolate herself from Anna, causing a rift to 
grow between the two sisters. But when the entire kingdom gets cast under Elsas ice 
spell, Anna teams up with mountain man Kristoff (Jonathan Groff), his reindeer Sven, 
and the magical snowman, Olaf (Josh Gad), to ?nd her sister. In one of the most 
splendid ?lms of the year, Frozen has you singing to the top of your lungs and bawling 
your eyes out at the same time.
Frozen
Friday, April 11  9
Sunday, April 13  2:30, 5, 8
Sharknado
Friday, April 11  12
Saturday, April 12  12
The movie weve all been waiting for is ?nally here and we are all alive to be a part 
of this momentous event. Sharknado takes adventure to an entirely new world and 
its too good to be true. After a freak hurricane hits Los Angeles, man-eating sharks 
start attacking the city literally by storm. In a desperate attempt to save his wife, barowner Fin (Ian Ziering) gathers together his group of friends to face an impending 
tornado  of sharks. In what is de?nitely on of the most unexpected movies of all 
time, Sharknado manages to toss criticisms aside by making fun of itself within its 
own movie. Its amazingly fun and fearlessly imaginative and, if you miss it, you might 
regret not being able to tell your grandchildren how awesome it was to be alive 
during the generation of Sharknado.

---------------------------------------------------

television
pillbox 04.07.145
Paperhouse
On Carnival Concerts
I am so underwhelmed and unsurprised by the choice to 
have Mac Miller and Icona Pop play at Carnival this year, I 
can barely get riled up enough to share my opinion.
But this is music, and The Tartan is giving me my very own 
soapbox, so, why dont I?
I dont know a lot about Mac Miller, I admit. All I know is 
that he is a rapper, and he is from Pittsburgh. Thats it. 
I know someone who saw him in Squirrel Hill once, and 
everyone was very excited about it.
Despite my limited knowledge of Mac Miller, I do at least 
know everything there is to know about Icona Pop: that 
one song from Girls. Seriously, Ill go see Icona Pop 
just to watch the change in the crowd from bored and 
uninterested to foamy -mouthed fans when they play that 
one song.
I can think of a ton of artists I would have been jazzed to 
see at Carnival. First of all, Danny Brown would have been 
killer. I know we like to pick rappers for this, so lets get an 
awesome one, right? Old was such a good album, and 
I think it came out recently enough to be relevant. Plus 
he has a song featuring Charli XCX as well, so people 
wouldnt miss that Icona Pop song too much.
But if we wanted to break the monotony of rap, Id be 
down to see Empire of the Sun as well. Theyre a crowdpleaser, like MGMT, except they never released an album 
as personally disappointing as Congratulations was. Plus, 
they have this crazy glam rock, king -of- Neptune thing going 
on. I bet it would be fun as hell to watch.
Im not pleased with the concert choice, but thats 
okay. Thats not really all that Carnival is about. Its 
about people waking up way too early for Buggy, and 
professors canceling class on Wednesday because none 
of you would come anyway. Its about not having to do 
homework! And, in my case, its about escaping brie?y to 
Morgantown to see Tobaxxo and The Hood Internet, which 
is going to be gnarly, in the best sense of the word.
Josephine Sullivan | Special to The Tartan
So thats how you met mom?
Long-running CBS series comes to disappointing end
If last Mondays series ?nale of How I Met Your 
Mother proved anything, it was that the show should 
have ended a long time ago.
Had the beloved CBS sitcom been canceled after 
one, two, or even three seasons, perhaps then 
the ending would have made some semblance of 
sense. But HIMYM was no typical three-season 
?op. It was a sitcom unique in its innovative 
and playful relationship with style, its serialized 
and time-jumping format, and its fearlessness in 
tackling serious issues along with hijinks. Moreover, 
HIMYM was a series with nine seasons to its name 
that endured the marriages, pregnancies, and 
career ?uctuations of its main cast, in addition 
to surviving a serious post-season seven dip in 
quality. Nine seasons of watching meant that 
HIMYM fans experienced nine seasons worth of 
plot advancement, character development, and 
emotional buildup. After all that, the HIMYM ?nale 
was nothing short of unacceptable. And its almost 
absurdly easy to pinpoint why.
For years, creators and head writers Carter Bays 
and Craig Thomas freely admitted that the ?nale 
was long-planned, the endgame set. There can be 
no better sign than these con?dent assurances that 
they had lost sight not only of fans expectations, but 
of what an organic and ful?lling end would entail. 
They failed to consider the nine years of writing that 
had occurred between their conception of the ?nal 
scene and that scenes unveiling. Bays and Thomas 
were too blinded by their idea of the perfect fullcircle ending to realize when that ending was no 
longer applicable.
Almost nothing about the ?nale makes sense when 
placed in context with the rest of the show. For 
starters, season nine is set over the weekend of 
Barney and Robins wedding. An entire season is 
devoted to the marriage of a couple  considered 
for years to be HIMYMs most popular  which the 
writers go on to destroy in less than ten minutes. 
Then, to add insult to injury, seasons of character 
development for Barney  tossed away along with 
his marriage  are reinstated with the lazy insert of 
sudden fatherhood. Lily, career forgotten, is reduced 
to a baby-making machine. Robin, career-consumed, 
closes off, abandoning the gang and the ex-husband 
who was once her best friend. Marshall is perhaps 
the only one who gets off unschated, and the ?nale 
tells us practically nothing about his future that we 
dont already know.
Ted, however, receives the worst treatment of 
all. Good-guy Ted, eternal romantic Ted, ?nally 
meets his soulmate. The Mother  whose name 
is revealed to be Tracy  is quirky and smart and 
perfect for Ted in pretty much every conceivable 
way. They meet at a train station, and its the one 
truly beautiful moment amidst a sea of suck. In that 
moment, and during Teds closing speech about how 
he loved Tracy with all that he had for as long as 
they had, it is doubtful there was a dry eye in front of 
screens across America.
But then it got bad. Viewers had been speculating 
for months about the Mothers death, so the 
con?rmation was hardly shocking. However, only 
the wildest, densest speculators could have guessed 
at the stunt the writers pulled next. After years of 
on-again, off-again, not over it, over it, and a season 
spent making viewers fall in love with Tracy, it turns 
out that the Mother was just one ?nal obstacle in the 
way of Ted and Robin.
The ?nal scene  ?lmed in 2006, before the kids 
could get old  is jarring and irreverent. Teds tale of 
How I Met Your Mother is really just an elaborate 
ploy to convince his kids to give him the green light 
to chase Robin once again. Seriously Dad, the kids 
seem to whine, stop blabbering on about our dead 
mother and go hook up with Aunt Robin already. We 
all know thats what you really want.
Is it, though? Is there a single fan who thought, after 
all this time, that Ted and Robin were genuinely 
meant to be together? That the Mother was just a 
gimmick, one more plot twist at the eleventh hour 
to make the ?nal scene of the last episode echo the 
?nal scene of the ?rst? Judging from the fan and 
critic outrage that has met the HIMYM ?nale, its 
hard to believe that anyone wanted this.
What message are we to take from HIMYM now? 
That no matter how long you wait, how much you 
try, and how deeply you love, friendships fade, loved 
ones die, and good things never last? If thats the 
truth of living, no one is going to be watching what 
was meant to be a light-hearted sitcom to learn it.
Fans came to How I Met Your Mother and stuck with 
it for so long on the promise of a show celebrating 
friendship, love, and life. The ?nale felt like a 
grievous betrayal of that promise, and fans are left 
with a bitter taste in their mouths.
Ariel Hoffmaier | Forum Editor

---------------------------------------------------

6fashion
pillbox 04.07.14
Saturday night saw Rangos Hall in the University Center 
transformed from a dull and unassuming space into 
an electrifying celebration of culture, beauty, fashion, 
and art thanks to the 2014 SPIRIT Fashion Show. Going 
beyond the typical fashion show format to combine 
all forms of performance, the show was more than 
a showcase of clothing, but rather a statement on 
numerous social issues related to discrimination and the 
lingering feelings of hatred that course through the blood 
of America.
The theme for the 2014 SPIRIT Fashion Show was 
Prima Facie, Latin for at a ?rst glance, and guided 
the shows discussion of discrimination. As described in 
the program, Image is powerful and complicated, and 
we want to show the community just how complicated 
it can actually be. Our show will demonstrate the power 
of someones ?rst impression. Indeed, the shows four 
acts were divided into four sections, each dealing with 
a speci?c theme: Sexuality touched on the struggle 
for gay rights and acceptance, Women railed against 
unnatural standards of beauty and disregarding strong 
female behavior as b****y, Black Men dug deep 
into racial discrimination and violence, and United 
States of America, the ?rst act of the show, served as 
an introduction to the evening by brie?y mentioning all 
three aforementioned themes.
What sets the SPIRIT Fashion Show apart from other 
events, such as Lunar Gala, is the fact that its much 
more than simply a showcase of clothing. Throughout 
the night, there were numerous performances  spoken, 
sung, and danced  that made Prima Facie more 
of an artistic statement than a mere runway. Poems 
performed by junior acting major Mitchell Edwards (who 
also wrote a number of them himself), senior dramaturgy 
major Alesia Etinoff, and junior psychology major Nkem 
Chikwendu gave each section a narrative voice, with 
music and dance performances also serving to highlight 
the themes. Junior musical theatre major Jean Floradins 
de?ant dance performance to Bon Ivers Lost in the 
Woods, which provided the close to Sexuality, was 
especially powerful in its representation of the spirit of 
the night.
The fashions of Prima Facie kept in line with the 
sections in which they were placed. For example, 
Human, a collection by Sammi and Company that was 
included in the Women section, strives to remind 
everyone that no matter who we are and what we wear, 
we should be treated and judged like humans, and not 
just as a trend. Many of the collections showcased in 
Black Men were in?uenced by urban streetwear and, 
in keeping with the sections character, some drew 
inspiration from ?gures who fought against repression. 
Versus, for example, included sweatshirts and T-shirts 
that bore the images of everyone from the Notorious 
B.I.G. to Malcolm X and Maya Angelou.
Prima Facie was a tremendous effort that transcended 
usual fashion show fare to become a statement on 
incredibly important issues of social justice and equality. 
Rather than celebrating perfection, Prima Facie chose 
to rail against it and celebrate beauty and triumph in its 
most true forms. And as an added bonus, the proceeds 
went to fund the Visionary Performing Arts Academy in 
downtown Pittsburgh.
Joey Peiser | Pillbox Editor
SPIRIT Fashion Show goes beneath the fabric
Prima Facie tackles social issues such as discrimination, violence, and struggle for freedom
Top: Senior musical theatre major Tsilala Graham models in front of the Prima Facie logo. 
Bottom left: Senior materials science and engineering major Roger Romero plays saxophone.
Bottom right: Senior english and civil and environmental engineering double major Ibironke Ogunye.
Abhinav Gautam | Staff PhotographerAbhinav Gautam | Staff Photographer
Abhinav Gautam | Staff Photographer

---------------------------------------------------

fashion
pillbox 04.07.147
Left to right, top to bottom: 
Junior musical theatre major Jean 
Floradin, Ana Taylor, sophomore 
visual art major Alex Walker, sophomore economics major Jobert 
Sauray, first-year undeclared Mellon 
College of Science student Lynzky 
Deleon, junior acting major Mitchell 
Edwards, senior civil and environmental engineering and engineering and public policy double major 
Esther Urena, Sharifa Garvey
Jonathan Leung | Photo Editor
Jonathan Leung | Photo Editor
Jonathan Leung | Photo Editor
Abhinav Gautam | Staff Photographer
Jonathan Leung | Photo Editor
Jonathan Leung | Photo Editor
Jonathan Leung | Photo Editor
Abhinav Gautam | Staff Photographer

---------------------------------------------------

carnival
pillbox 04.07.1498carnival
pillbox 04.07.14
Alpha Chi Omega Iconic Movie 
Moments
Alpha Epsilon Pi The Simpsons
Alpha Phi Monsters Inc.
Asian Student Association 
Charlie and the Chocolate Factory
Astronomy Club Wallace and 
Gromit: Gentlemen Prefer Moon 
Cheese
Delta Delta Delta St. Jude
Delta Gamma Despicable Me
Delta Tau Delta Coney Island
Delta Upsilon Portal
Fringe Pittsburgh: The Best City in 
the World
Kappa Alpha Theta Pirates of the 
Carribean
KGB The Magic School Bus
Kappa Kappa Gamma Wreck-It 
Ralph
Math Club To Infinity and Beyond
Mayur Avatar: The Last Airbender
Mellon College of Science 
Batman
Mudge Mudge Mansion
Phi Delta Theta The Olympics
Sigma Alpha Epsilon The Karate 
Kid
Sigma Phi Epsilon Lord of the 
Rings
Singapore Student Association 
Secret Agent Training School
Spirit Pokmon
Stuent Dormitory Council Games 
Through the Ages
Taiwanese Student Association 
Miyazaki Films
Carnival 2014: The Best of the Best 
Midway Map and Booth Guide
Albina Kwak | Junior Artist
Eunice Oh | Staff Artist
Maegha Singh | Junior Artist
Map Courtesy of:

---------------------------------------------------

10carnival
pillbox 04.07.14
As the 100th annual Carnival arrives with a 
bang, many on campus are looking back into 
the history of the legendary event. The Spring 
Carnival Committee, headed by senior statistics 
major Emily Hrin and senior lighting design major 
Jackson Gallagher, in particular is bringing back 
an assortment of historical traditions from the early 
years of Carnival.
In researching the history of Carnival, which is 
recognized by most Carnegie Mellon students as 
the best weekend of the academic year, Gallagher 
became interested in the traditions of years past. 
The two that piqued his interest were plank jousting 
and the class chain tradition.
Plank Jousting
Plank jousting was a large part of Carnival from 
1947 to the early 1980s. It involves laying a plank of 
wood across a pit of mud, and then having teams 
of about ?ve people hit each other with pillows 
while balancing on the plank. The goal is to knock 
the opposing team into the mud below. According 
to Gallagher, the mud pit for the event will be 
created in the grassy area near the path by WQED 
off the Morewood parking lot. Teams can sign up 
to participate on the spot, with no preregistration 
needed, and hopefully for free, if feasible. If enough 
teams sign up for the event, the committee plans to 
have a tournament.
Class Chain
The second tradition that the Committee plans to 
revive is the class chain.
From the years 19141942, each class forged a link 
of a chain and then stamped it with their class year. 
When World War I started, however, the tradition 
was discontinued. This year, the chain will come out 
of the archives, where it has been stored for years, 
and, after nearly 70 years, be added to once again.
Not only will the class of 2014 be adding a link to 
the chain, but the Carnival Committee will also be 
sponsoring the forging of links for every missing 
class as well.
Emily and I will be stamping our year into the 
chain, Gallagher said. Alumni from every year have 
been invited back and will hopefully be available to 
stamp their year into the chain. Gallagher and Hrin 
hope that this tradition that will continue into future 
years as well.
Weve also arranged a history of Carnival museumtype exhibit that will be open during UC operation 
hours containing memorabilia from Carnivals past, 
said Hrin.
At the 100-year landmark, Carnival is thriving, and 
students should take this opportunity to revisit the 
history of the event while enjoying it for themselves.
Laura Scherb | Operations Manager 
Want to joust this Carnival?
A look at a few Carnival traditions that are making a return
Joey Peiser | Pillbox Editor
Brief history of Carnival
1920
First ever Campus Week, including a 
live circus. Sweepstakes is established 
and the Carnival buggy races begin. 
The Campus Queen tradition is 
established.
Alpha Phi Omega begins selling 
concessions on the Midway.
Victor, the 651-pound bear who drinks 
7-Up, comes to Carnival and wrestles 
five fraternity men. All participants lose 
to Victor. 
A week after Google bought YouTube 
for $1.65 billion, The Tartans editorial 
page muses on the future of the site 
that, at the time, was serving 100 
million videos per day. That future, five 
years later: bigger numbers. In 2011, 
YouTube is the third-most-visited site 
on the web, serving 2 billion 
videos to 30 percent of the 
worlds internet users each day.
The Pittsburgh City Council has officially declared April 10, 2014 to 
be forever known as Carnival 100 Day.
On Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, between 4 and 9 p.m., the 
Carnegie Mellon Police Department will be holding a Dunk-aCop event on the Midway to benefit the Special Olympics of 
Pennsylvania.
Hypnotist Paul Ramsay will be performing in the Main Tent on 
Saturday at 8 p.m. Ramsays performance uses interactive polling 
technology to essentially crowd-source the hypnotism and allow the 
audience to choose what the hypnotized person will do.
More Carnival Events: Old and New
1915
Qualification Day, which heralds 
acceptance of first years as full 
Carnegie Men, is established. 
1930
Spring Carnival is established, 
following a long series of discussions 
after Campus Week is abandoned in 
1928. Float Parade and Canoe Tilt 
traditions are established.
1949
1954Float Parade tradition is turned into 
competitive booth. 
1960
Carnival moves out of its historic home 
on the Cut and into the Skibo Parking 
lot. 
1969Sorority booth category is added.
1970s
In a big decade for womens rights, the 
Campus Queen tradition is abolished 
and a womens Sweepstakes category 
is established. Carnival also shifts 
focus to be more entertainment-based 
with the establishment of the Activities 
Board.
Independent organization booth 
category is added.1976
1981
1995Mobot competition is established, 
Carnival moves to Morewood Gardens 
parking lot.
2014
Carnival celebrates its 100th 
anniversary. With the announcement 
of the Tepper Quadrangle to be built 
over the Morewood Gardens parking 
lot, Carnival is set to move over to 
the College of Fine Arts parking lot in 
2015.

---------------------------------------------------

comics
pillbox 04.07.1411
Metamaterials by xkcd
press@xkcd.comxkcd.com
wronghands1@gmail.com
Selfie by John Atkinson
wronghands1.wordpress.com/about

---------------------------------------------------

12comics
pillbox 04.07.14
Voice of Nature by Alex Culang and Raynato Castroa
www.buttersafe.combuttersafe@gmail.com

---------------------------------------------------

puzzles
pillbox 04.07.1413
Solutions from March 31
CrosswordTough DifficultyTough Difficulty
Maze Puzzle: Tough Difficulty Kakuro Puzzle: Tough Difficulty
kakuro courtesy of www.krazydad.comMaze courtesy of www.krazydad.com
Fill all empty squares using numbers 1 to 9 so the sum of 
each row equals the clue on its left, and the sum of each 
column equals the clue on its top. No number may be used 
in the same row or column more than once.
Start from the middle arrow of the maze and find your way 
out the maze.

---------------------------------------------------

14horoscopes
pillbox 04.07.14
 1. Measured with a watch
 2. Digression
 3. Burdened
 4. At the same time
 5. Goes by
 6. Capital of Zambia
 7. Like afterschool activities
 8. Meat dish
 9. Sic on
 10. Typical instance
 11. Baseball team
 12. Org.
 13. Editors mark
 22. Words of comprehension
 27. Treasure Island monogram
 28. Philosopher ___-tzu
 30. Toward the mouth
 31. Permits
 32. Id hate to break up ___
 33. Japanese rice wine
 34. Blue hue
 35. Ages and ages
 39. Place for ordering alcoholic drinks
 40. Bordeaux buddy
 42. Clinton cabinet member Federico
 43. In any case
 46. Sister of Venus
 48. Bohemian
 51. Fable
 52. Flavor
 53. Rose
 54. Not so much
 55. Hip bones
 56. Sardine containers
 57. Carry
 1. After-bath powder
 5. Hgt.
 9. Horne and Olin
14. Golfer Aoki
15. Sumptuousness 
16. Are
17. Calf-length skirt
18. Dog star
19. High-strung
20. First place?
21. Legislative assembly
23. Bears lairs
24. Musical style with 
similarities to reggae
25. Indy 500 sponsor
26. Molasses
29. Damn Yankees role
33. Takes by theft
36. Abu Dhabis fed.
37. Ticks off
38. Ages
39. Siss sib
40. ___ worse than death
41. Philosopher Immanuel
42. Average
43. In the thick of
44. Born Free lion
45. Controversial
47. A Bobbsey twin
49. Animation unit
50. Plays are divided up into these 
54. Writings
58. Precisely
59. Silas Marner author
60. Olive genus
61. Not ___ many words
62. Nasal cavity
63. Makes brown
64. Beetle Bailey dog
65. Impudent
66. Part of Q.E.D.
67. Requirement
ACROSSDOWN
Horoscopes
aries
march 21april 19
Today is a relaxing day, provided you make the necessary 
effort to deal with material constraints. You would like 
nothing more than to plan fun activities for the future.
taurus
april 20may 20
Theres a lot on your mind today. Over the last few weeks, 
youve analyzed your relationships and now new people 
with attractive qualities are tempting you to make a change. 
Is this a good time to accept the upheaval such changes 
would create?
gemini
may 21june 21
The past few days have been quite serious, but today 
you awaken with a light heart and boundless energy. Your 
capacity for charm will be at its peak. People at work will 
yield to your wishes today.
cancer
june 22july 22
You could be feeling a little overwhelmed and overworked. 
Perhaps the demands of your professional life are weighing 
heavily on your mind. Dont worry; these feelings will pass.
leo
july 23aug. 22 
Are you feeling grumpy lately? Dont worry, because your 
bad mood wont last. This attitude is unlike you. Your 
co-workers notice the change in your personality, but still 
treat you with consideration and respect.
virgo
aug. 23sept. 22
You have to work hard to achieve your purpose. Every day, 
its as if you carry around an overstuffed sandbag. This 
would be a good day to identify the source of this trouble.
libra
sept. 23oct. 22
You may have an urge to invent new things. You feel 
compelled to create something in the technical, artistic, or 
philosophical field. If only youd given yourself enough time 
to pursue these ideas. Maybe today is the day to recognize 
them.
scorpio
oct. 23nov. 21
Generally, you come up with a perfect, witty answer one 
day too late. Impulse and intuition take a back seat to your 
great self-control. Today, you will be presented with an 
opportunity to let go of those constraints.
sagittarius
nov. 22dec. 21
Today, youll be inspired to revamp your role models and 
lighten your workload. Equality in the home is just as 
important as equality in the workplace.
capricorn
dec. 22jan. 19
There is some likelihood of a slight career conflict. You 
might have to deal with a comrade who steps on your toes 
and takes advantage of your gentle nature to push you 
around. Defend yourself with your favorite weapons: silence, 
laughter, and perspective.
aquarius
jan. 20feb. 18
Dont fret about your appearance today. Youve been 
questioning the way you act and dress lately, and those 
fears should be relinquished. Dont use your judgment to 
hurt yourself.
pisces
feb. 19march 20
Take this day to think about your private life; be particularly 
sensitive to all kinds of demands from those closest to you. 
You have the power to create greater harmony at home and 
in your relationship.Maryyann Landlord | Comics Editor
Crossword courtesy of BestCrosswords.com

---------------------------------------------------

calendar
pillbox 04.07.1415
MONDAY4.7.14
Now Is The Month of Pinging. Great Hall, CFA. 6:30 
p.m.
This performance by the Ping madrigal choir will feature 
world premieres of works by Carnegie Mellon masters 
student in music composition Evan Jay Williams, ?rstyear Bachelor of Science and Arts student in music 
composition and physics David Last, and a work 
written by Ping member Sean Salamon, a senior music 
composition major. Admission is free.
Erin Yanacek, Trumpet. Kresge Theatre, CFA. 8 p.m.
Masters student in trumpet performance Erin Yanacek 
will perform Tomasis Concerto for Trumpet as well 
as Bernsteins Rondo for Lifey, as well as pieces that 
combine her trumpet with electronic music. 
Admission is free.
TUESDAY4.8.14
Alec Chien, Piano. Kresge Theatre, CFA. 8 p.m.
School of Music faculty adjunct professor Alec Chien will 
perform works of Schubert and Chopin. 
Admission is free.
THURSDAY4.10.14
Kiltie Band Concert. Midway Tent. 3:30 p.m.
Steam Roller Printing. CFA Parking Lot. 
10 a.m. to 5 p.m.
School of Art adjunct assistant professor Matt Forrest and 
School of Design associate professor Dylan Vitone will be 
producing large prints in the parking lot all day.
Tig Notaro and Hannibal Buress. Midway Tent. 8 p.m.
Notaro, an acclaimed comedian who has had her work 
praised by such comic heavyweights as Louis C.K. and 
Sarah Silverman, and Buress, who previously worked as 
a writer on Saturday Night Live and 30 Rock and has had 
his stand-up featured on Comedy Central and multiple 
late night programs, will be bringing laughter to the 
Midway Tent. Admission is free.
The 25th Annual Putnam County Spelling Bee. 
Rangos Hall. 8 p.m.
ScotchnSoda presents this hilarious musical comedy 
about a group of abnormal kids ?ghting to be crowned 
the winner of their local spelling bee. Showtimes continue 
on Friday at 2 and 11 p.m., and Saturday at 2 and 6 p.m. 
Tickets are $5 for students and $10 for non-students.
FRIDAY4.11.14
Game Creation Society Arcade. 4th Floor Atrium, 
Gates Center. 12 p.m.
The Game Creation Society will be showcasing the 
highlights from student game development that attendees 
can play. This event will also occur on Saturday at the 
same time and place.
Mac Miller and Icona Pop. CFA Lawn. 7:30 p.m.
Theres a party on Forbes Ave, tell me if you want to go. 
Squirrel Hill native Mac Miller will be performing on the 
CFA Lawn, along with the duo that gave us I Love It last 
summer, Icona Pop. In the event of rain, the concert will 
be held in Wiegand Gymnasium and pre-obtained tickets 
will be required.
Spring Carnival Fireworks. CFA Lawn. 10:30 p.m.
End Carnegie Mellon Spring Carnival like a day at Walt 
Disney World  with beautiful ?reworks that light up the 
sky, as well as a killer foot pain and desire to sleep for 
days.
SATURDAY4.12.14
Talk Color to Me. Flagstaff Hill. Noon.
Celebrate Holi, the Hindu festival of color that 
commemorates the advent of Spring by throwing vibrantly 
colored powder. Tickets are $8 a person, with powder 
packets available for $1, and can be purchased at the 
OM table before Spring Carnival.
Shot for Shot Student Film Festival. McConomy 
Auditorium. 7:30 p.m.
Shot for Shot is a showcase of ?lm and video work from 
students up to the graduate level in the Pittsburgh area, 
organized by the Carnegie Mellon Filmmaking Club. This 
event is free and open to the public. A list of ?lms can be 
found at cmu?lmclub.com/shot-for-shot-?lm-festival.
ONGOING
Lossless. Miller Gallery. Through April 20. 
This exhibition of Carnegie Mellon School of Art master 
of ?ne arts candidates features large-scale installations, 
video, and generative sound art by artists Carl Bajandas, 
Oreen Cohen, and Yun Mi Her. Admission is free and 
open to the public.
RACE: Are We So Different? Carnegie Museum of 
Natural History. Through Oct. 27. 
This exhibit explores the experience of living with race 
in America, using interactive multimedia components, 
photographs, iconic objects, and historical artifacts.
Rhythm and Bulbs. Phipps Conservatory. 
Through April 20. 
This years spring ?ower show combines music with 
Phipps collection of exotic ?owers and garden designs. 
From one room to the next, music genres switch from 
swing and big band to rock.
Compiled by Joey Peiser | Pillbox Editor
Want your event here?
Email calendar@thetartan.org.

---------------------------------------------------

16gallery
pillbox 04.07.14
Jonathan Leung | Photo Editor
Just in time to usher in the warm weather, acclaimed street painters 
Benjamin Hummel and Cherish Flieder transformed the University 
Center Merson Courtyard into a colorful work of art over a 24-hour 
period last Monday through Tuesday. The work was sponsored by the 
Activities Board, and encouraged students to get out and spend some 
time outside.
3-D chalk art
Alan Vee | Staff PhotographerAlan Vee | Staff Photographer
