PILLBOX
Carnegie Mellons student newspaper since 1906
Alumni become The Brew Gentlemen  B8
FORUM
iPhone 5 lacks signi?cant upgrade  A9
SCITECH
New Scott Institute for Energy unveiled  A4
thetartan.org
@thetartan
September 24, 2012
Volume 107, Issue 5
BRENT HEARD
Assistant News Editor
Carnegie Mellons Software Engineering Institute 
(SEI) is now expanding into 
Bakery Square in East Liberty. The university spin-off 
research center has recently 
leased 38,000 square feet of 
space from a now LEED-certi?ed old Nabisco Bakery in 
Bakery Square.
Google, the University of 
Pittsburgh Department of 
Rehabilitation Science and 
Technology, the UPMC Technology Development Center, 
and the VA Human Engineering Research Laboratories also 
reside in of?ce complexes in 
the Bakery Square center. The 
SEIs expansion will be housed 
on the ?rst ?oor.
The lease was made by 
Walnut Capital Partners, and 
was of?cially announced to 
the public Sept. 12.
Paul Nielsen, director and 
CEO of the SEI, said in an 
email, Were over capacity in 
our Oakland of?ces and need 
more space due to growth in 
staf?ng. Bakery Square offered the best value and is 
still relatively close to campus 
compared to other of?ce space 
available in the Pittsburgh 
area.
Nielsen went on to emphasize that the SEI was not 
moving to Bakery Square, but 
expanding to there. He said, 
We will still remain in our existing Oakland sites  4500 
Fifth Ave., the CIC building, 
Sterling Plaza and the RAND 
building.
As recorded in the SEIs of?cial press release, Pittsburgh 
Mayor Luke Ravenstahl said, 
I am thrilled to welcome SEI 
to Bakery Square  a development that has been essential 
to the recent transformation 
of Pittsburghs East End. The 
announcement that Bakery 
Square is now 100 percent 
leased is an exciting and signi?cant milestone for the projects many dedicated stakeholders, especially Walnut 
Capital and RCG Longview 
Fund. The anticipation now 
rises for Bakery Square 2.0, 
which will provide even more 
of?ce space, create more jobs, 
and grow our thriving hightech innovation economy.
The SEI describes itself on 
its website as a a federally 
funded research and development center sponsored by 
the Department of Defense, 
and works closely with defense and government organizations, industry, and academia to continually improve 
software-intensive systems. 
Its core purpose is to help organizations to improve their 
software engineering capabilities and to develop or acquire 
the right software, defect free, 
within budget and on time, every time.
The SEIs website also explains that the institute was 
founded in 1984 at Carnegie 
Mellon by the Department of 
Defense, and currently has 
over 500 employees, with of?ces in Los Angeles; Arlington, 
Va.;  and Frankfurt, Germany.
The SEIs government contract was recently extended 
through June 2015 for $584 
million, according to a previous SEI press release.
Expansions space was 
necessary because the staff we 
had in current facilities were 
getting overcrowded, said 
Richard Lynch, the public relations manager for the SEI.
Lynch said that Bakery 
Square was chosen as a location for a combination of reasons: We needed more space 
immediately, and that space is 
somewhat convenient to CMU 
and other SEI locations.
According to Lynch, ?-
nance and business support 
services were the main departments being moved to Bakery Square. Lynch said that 
the move frees up a certain 
amount of space in the main 
SEI building to facilitate more 
research staff.
New noise policy aims to quiet campus
JACKSON LANE
Senior Staffwriter
The campus noise policy 
has been revised to limit the 
amount of noise coming from 
student organization activities on the Cut. The revisions 
were announced to leaders of 
Greek and student organizations in an email from Director of Student Activities Elizabeth Vaughan and Associate 
Director of Student Life for 
Upperclass and Greek Houses Lucas Christain. The new 
policy is also available online 
in Carnegie Mellons Student 
Handbook, The Word.
The main change is the 
clari?cation that the noise 
policy applies to both indoor 
and outdoor activities. In 
particular, the new policy is 
meant to target activities on 
the Cut.
We received a lot of feedback from faculty, staff, and 
students saying that we need 
to preserve some periods for 
studying and being in class, 
Christain said. People were 
saying how they had to close 
windows in class because 
there was music coming from 
the Cut or from another part 
of campus.
According to Christain, 
in the majority of the complaints, the noise was coming 
from student organizations, 
which is why he and Vaughan 
made a special announcement 
to student organization leaders. It was important that 
student organizations were 
aware of this policy because 
a lot of their activities include 
tabling, hooking up speakers, 
or doing something on campus outside, Christain said.
Both the current noise 
policy and the previous version, released in 1998, begin 
by specifying hours when certain types of noise are permissible, and both versions then 
go on to say that excessive 
noise that results in a reasonable complaint from residents 
within or beyond the campus 
is never permitted.
However, when specifying the hours, the 1998 version de?nes the type of noise 
restricted as indoor activity 
that can be heard outside a 
university building. The current revision expands this 
de?nition to include both 
indoor and outdoor noises, 
such as those from activities 
happening on the Cut. Speci?cally, the 2012 revision 
uses the umbrella phrase, 
Activity occurring on Carnegie Mellon-owned or managed property that disrupts 
the normal course of business 
or is otherwise disruptive to 
the university or surrounding 
communities.
Although one could argue 
that the 1998 version would 
still classify loud activity on 
the Cut as excessive noise 
that results in a reasonable 
complaint, the de?nition is 
vague and doesnt acknowledge how outside activity, like 
the indoor activity referenced, 
can be excessive during certain times of the day while 
permissible at other times.
In short, the 2012 version 
clari?es what type of noise is 
allowed at what time. The 
main difference was that 
there was more ambiguity in 
the previous version, said 
Student Body President Will 
Weiner, a senior economics 
Man makes poetry of cave art
NOL UM
Junior Staffwriter
Melding the realms of 
archaeology and poetry, 
Clayton Eshleman  American poet, translator, and 
editor  spoke about his 
experiences discovering ancient cave art in Southern 
France to an audience in 
Porter Hall last Thursday.
The lecture drew on Eshlemans recent book of poetry, Juniper Fuse: Upper Paleolithic Imagination & the 
Construction of the Underworld. Eshleman cited the 
wicks made from juniper 
branches that he found during his cave excursions as 
the source of the books title. The symbolic title serves 
as a snippet of his books 
content, which draws heavily on Eshlemans ?ndings 
of Cro-Magnon rock art and 
its metaphorical interpretation.
An excerpt from Juniper Fuse reads, The way a 
cave might leak perfume.... 
In the Cro-Magnons went, 
along its wet, hide walls 
as if a ?ower, way in, drew 
their leggy, tense traumatic 
bodies, spidering over bottomless hunches, groping 
toward Persephones fate.
Throughout his presentation, Eshleman recreated 
his encounters with the 
cave art that inspired the 
poetry in his book. He projected slides of images from 
the art that in?uenced his 
writing in order to talk in 
detail about each piece and 
its symbolic or metaphorical signi?cance.
Many images showed an 
advanced degree of intellectual development within 
the Cro-Magnons. One image of a horse head aligned 
with the outline of a vulva, 
Eshleman said, served as a 
metaphorical connection 
between head power and 
vulva power.
Some pieces of art that 
Eshleman displayed were 
painted with manganese 
or okra, in such detail that 
he compared to the work of 
artist Pablo Picasso.
Hybrid ?gures such as 
bison-humans or reindeerbison reoccurred in many 
Silver 
jubilee 
for LCS 
program
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
Junior Staffwriter
Faculty members, students, and alumni of the 
English department came 
together to celebrate the 
25th anniversary of the 
universitys literary and cultural studies program last 
Thursday and Friday. According to English professor 
Kathy Newman, who organized the celebration, the 
program has produced over 
300 alumni with masters 
degrees or doctorates in literary and cultural studies 
since its inception in 1986.
The events kicked off 
Thursday with a short ?lm 
titled Tributaries: 25 Years 
of Literary and Cultural 
Studies at Carnegie Mellon 
University. Created by doctoral candidates David Haeselin and Sheila Liming, the 
documentary focused on 
the history of literary and 
cultural studies, both as a 
broader academic ?eld and, 
more speci?cally, at Carnegie Mellon in the past 25 
years. The ?lm also looked 
at the prospective future 
of the literary and cultural 
studies program. The ?lm 
tries to offer a conversation 
about where we have come 
from and where we are going, Liming said.
Its a great way to learn 
something about [literary and cultural studies], 
Bridget Powers, a ?rst-year 
graduate student in the program, said of the ?lm. Its 
de?nitely an umbrella term, 
SEI to expand to new Bakery Square location
See ANNIVERSARY, A3
See POET, A3
See NOISE, A3
Were so 
involved in 
innovation and 
that requires 
us to be at the 
edge of today 
and tomorrow, 
whereas what 
hes doing 
is looking at 
humanity and 
stretching it 
back to the 
distant past.
William Alba
Director of the 
Science and 
Humanities 
Scholars program
Adelaide Cole/Art Editor
Photo illustration by Jonathan Carreon/Photo Editor
The new noise policy limits the days and times during which students can make disruptive noise near university buildings. From left to right: Protesters outside the University Center speak out against Carnegie Mellons partnership wtih Rwanda; students gather on the College of Fine Arts lawn 
for this semesters activities fair; a crowd gathers to watch last years Anti-Gravity Derby; and local activist Kimberly Ellis speaks to a several hundred 
Pittsburghers at a rally by the Fence to protest the killing of Trayvon Martin.

---------------------------------------------------

A2  thetartan.org/news The Tartan  September 24, 2012
Eric L. Butler
Tuesday at 12:30 p.m. 
Mellon Auditorium
Eric L. Butler, the executive vice president of marketing and sales at Union Paci?c, 
will speak as part of the W.L. 
Mellon Speaker series. Butler has a bachelors degree in 
mechanical engineering and 
a masters degree in information assurance, both from 
Carnegie Mellon. He has 
been with Union Paci?c since 
1986, and in that time has 
held a number of managerial 
and executive positions.
James Jordan
Tuesday at 4:30 p.m. 
Breed Hall 
(Margaret Morrison 103)
Healthcare and biotechnology management professor James Jordan will deliver 
a talk titled Innovation, 
Commercialization, and the 
Successful Startup. The 
seminar will discuss the kinds 
of commercialization necessary for a startup company 
to succeed. Jordan is the vice 
president, chief information 
of?cer, and managing director of the accelerator fund 
for Pittsburgh Life Sciences 
Greenhouse, a nonpro?t organization that provides support and resources to local 
life sciences startups.
Tom Ridge
Thursday at 4:30 p.m. 
Kresge Theater
Former Governor of Pennsylvania Tom Ridge will deliver a lecture titled Political 
Leadership in the Presidential Election Season. The 
talk, which is sponsored by 
the Center for International 
Relations and Politics and 
the pre-law program, will 
focus on the current political landscape of the U.S. and 
the primary issues at play in 
this years presidential election. Ridge is currently the 
president and CEO of Ridge 
Global, an international security and risk management 
?rm. Previously, he served 
two terms as the governor 
of Pennsylvania before becoming the ?rst secretary of 
Homeland Defense.
Andrew Lo
Thursday at 4:30 p.m. 
Gregg Hall (Porter 100)
Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology ?nance professor Andrew Lo will deliver a 
lecture titled Can Financial 
Engineering Cure Cancer? 
as part of the Nash Lecture 
Series. 
Lo will describe the role 
that ?nancial innovation 
played in the economic crisis 
of recent years, and will explain how an understanding 
of human nature and incentives could allow ?nancial engineers to utilize the power 
of global ?nancial markets in 
order to cure cancer. 
Lo is the director of MITs 
Laboratory for Financial Engineering and a principal investigator at MITs Computer 
Science and Arti?cial Intelligence Lab.
Compiled by
MADELYN GLYMOUR
Corrections & Clari?cations
The movie times for Alien in last weeks Dollar Movie (Pillbox, Sept. 17) were incorrectly listed as 8 p.m., 
10 p.m., and midnight. The actual times were 6 p.m., 8 
p.m., and 10 p.m.
If you would like to submit a correction or clari?cation, please email The Tartan at news@thetartan.org or 
editor@thetartan.org with your inquiry, as well as the 
date of the issue and the name of the article. We will 
print the correction or clari?cation in the next print issue and publish it online.
Lecture Preview
A team of Carnegie Mellon researchers, led by economics and public policy 
professor Robert Strauss and 
social and decision science 
professor Afeworki Paulos, 
has launched a comprehensive online compilation of 
literature on natural gas extraction in the Marcellus and 
Utica shales.
Not surprisingly, there 
has been scant investigation 
of impacts of natural gas extraction by hydraulic fracturing in areas such as population change, transportation 
infrastructure, housing patterns, income or poverty and 
social services usage. There is 
very little knowledge about 
how this important economic 
driver is affecting so many 
aspects of our communities. 
The majority of the literature 
on this activity deals with 
economic, environmental, or 
public health impacts. And 
even these impacts are still 
under investigation, Strauss 
said in a university press release.
The aim of the project is 
to allow policymakers to understand the body of research 
on natural gas extraction. 
The project catalogues over 
1,200 academic articles, reports from think tanks, government documents, maps, 
and research guides. It can 
be searched by keyword or 
browsed by category.
The team compiled the 
literature with a grant from 
the Chrostwaite Institute, the 
nonpro?t arm of the Pennsylvania State Association of 
Boroughs.
Compiled by
MADELYN GLYMOUR
Carnegie Mellons department of modern languages 
has partnered with the Latin 
American Cultural Union to 
present the Latinos In/On 
Film Festival 2012, in honor 
of Hispanic Heritage Month. 
The festival will show ?ve 
?lms over the course of four 
weeks. It started last week 
and will end Oct. 12. The aim 
of the festival is to showcase 
the accomplishments of Latino  writers and ?lmmakers 
and the contributions of the 
Latino population to American culture.
Showing this particular 
group of ?lms during Hispanic Heritage Month is not 
just to acknowledge recent 
Spanish-speaking immigrants to the U.S., but primarily to acknowledge the 
historical presence of Latinos 
here, since Spanish colonial 
days and on into the 19th and 
early- to mid-20th century 
and beyond, Hispanic studies associate professor Kenya 
Dworkin said in a university 
press release. The Latino 
presence here is as much U.S. 
history as it is about more recent immigrants and exiles. 
These ?ve ?lms are a modest 
attempt at offering a glimpse 
of that vast experience as 
written and portrayed by U.S. 
Latinos.
The ?rst ?lm, ...y no se lo 
trag la tierra, was shown 
last Thursday. The remaining 
four ?lms are El Sper, which 
will be shown this Wednesday; La guagua area, which 
will be shown Oct. 3; Nueba 
Yol, which will be shown Oct. 
6; and A Day Without a Mexican, which will be shown Oct. 
12. A discussion will follow 
each ?lm.
CAMPUS NEWS IN BRIEF
CMU presents month-long Latin American ?lm festival
FEATURE PHOTO
Students sign up to give back to PGH
WEATHER
TUESDAY
High / Low
70 / 59
WEDNESDAY
High / Low
68 / 52
THURSDAY
High / Low
69 / 49
FRIDAY
High / Low
71 / 58
SATURDAY
High / Low
72 / 58
Odor of Marijuana
Sept. 14, 2012
University Police responded to a room in Morewood 
Gardens for a report of an 
odor of marijuana. An of?cer 
con?scated a small amount of 
marijuana from two students 
in the room. Both will be cited 
for this incident.
Underage Drinking
Sept. 15, 2012
University Police responded to Scobell Hall to meet with 
a CA who said there was an 
underage and intoxicated female in the building. Of?cers 
determined that the female 
was conscious and alert, and 
was not in need of medical attention, but she was cited on 
scene for underage drinking.
Alcohol Amnesty
Sept. 16, 2012
University Police and Carnegie Mellon EMS responded 
to Doherty Apartments for an 
intoxicated male. The Carnegie Mellon student had been 
drinking at the Sigma Alpha 
Epsilon fraternity and then 
at an unknown address. EMS 
evaluated and completed an 
initial treatment of the patient.
 University Police completed a transport to the hospital 
for further treatment. Alcohol 
Amnesty applied to this incident.
Theft
Sept. 17, 2012
University Police responded to Delta Gamma sorority to 
take a theft report. The female 
stated that her wallet was 
left in the University Centers 
womens locker room on Sept. 
16 at 11 p.m. in an unsecured 
locker. 
The owner stated that the 
cash in her wallet was noticed 
missing at 1 a.m. the following day. Approximately $85
90 was taken. 
Police will view video footage of the locker room entrance during the time frame 
in which the theft occurred. 
This case is under investigation.
Theft
Sept. 18, 2012
University Police of?cers 
responded to Margaret Morrison Apartments to take a report of a theft. The reporting 
student noticed his longboard, 
valued at $200, was missing 
from the common area during 
a Pi Delta Psi new members 
meeting earlier in the day. 
University Police will continue to investigate this incident.
Theft
Sept. 19, 2012
University Police took a 
report of the theft of a potted 
plant, valued at $300, from 
the top of the Grand Staircase 
in Newell-Simon Hall. Anyone 
with information about the 
theft is asked to contact the 
University Police.
Campus Crime & Incident Reports
Jonathan Carreon/Photo Editor
Students gathered at the tables of the East End Cooperative Ministry and the Grane Hospice at last Wednesdays volunteer fair. Several dozen 
charitable and volunteer organizations lined up around the College of Fine Arts lawn and the Mall to reach out to students.
Statistically Speaking
Saturday was the autumnal equinox, when Earths 
axis is tilted neither toward nor away from the sun. Here 
are some equinox facts to get you through the fall:
Sept. 2528
Sept. 29
10:49 a.m.
The exact time of this years autumnal equinox, Eastern Standard 
Time.
12 hours, 8 minutes
The time between sunrise and sunset in Pittsburgh 
during this years autumnal equinox.
Compiled by 
MADELYN GLYMOUR
Sources: washingtonpost.com/blogs, 
weather.pittsburgh.cbslocal.com,  
and weather.com
Source: www.weather.com
 The range of days during which the Earths days and nights 
will be equally long.
The date of this years Harvest moon  the ?rst full 
moon after the autumnal equinox  which rises 
about half an hour earlier than normal.
Researchers launch shale literature review website

---------------------------------------------------

September 24, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/news  A3
cave paintings; Eshleman 
said that the hybrid animal 
was the engine of anima display.
According to Eshleman, 
these imaginative ?gures 
in?uenced his detail-heavy 
prose-poetry in Juniper Fuse.
Some students who enjoyed Eshlemans presentation nevertheless felt unsatis?ed with its emphasis on the 
discovery of cave art, rather 
than on the poetic process.
Sophie Zucker, a ?rstyear science and humanities 
scholar, said, I didnt feel 
like Eshleman was necessarily an expert on archaeology, 
and I wish I saw more of the 
writing aspect of his work 
rather than the facts that he 
had gathered.
Eshleman delivered his 
lecture as part of the Victor M. Bearg Speaker Series 
sponsored by the Science 
and Humanities Scholars 
program, which is headed by 
William Alba.
Alba said, What [Eshleman] is doing is a nice counterpoint to what we often do 
at CMU. Were so involved in 
innovation and that requires 
us to be at the edge of today 
and tomorrow, whereas what 
hes doing is looking at humanity and stretching it back 
to the distant past.
In his opening remarks, 
Alba said, With the sensitivity and insensibility of a poet, 
[Eshleman] translates his experiences so that we might 
better understand what he 
encountered there.
Eshleman is a Professor 
Emeritus at Eastern Michigan 
University and author of over 
40 books, including books of 
poetry and translations.
POET, from A1
where a lot of people think 
they know what it means, but 
they dont.
The advent of cultural 
studies came in the mid-20th 
century, when the term was 
coined at the Birmingham 
Centre for Contemporary Culture Studies, Newman said. 
She described it as studying 
literature and other forms of 
culture in the historical context in which that culture is 
produced ... [and] how and 
why people make culture.
Many students and professors who viewed the ?lm said 
that Carnegie Mellons program is unique in its highly 
interdisciplinary nature, and 
particularly in its emphasis on 
literature. Its really important at Carnegie Mellon that 
we remember the title of the 
department as literary and 
cultural studies.... This ?lm 
is part of work to preserve the 
and,  Haeselin said.
Haeselin and Liming also 
emphasized the wide-ranging 
uses of a degree in literary and 
cultural studies; Liming called 
the program a springboard 
for thinking about other cultural forms.
After the ?lm, the celebration moved to Danforth 
Lounge in the University Center, where seven of the programs alumni  Carl Davenport, Rachel Delphia, Michael 
Scotto, Regina Anderson, David Pass, Matt Freeman, and 
Luke Niebler  talked about 
their experiences applying literary and cultural studies outside of the academic world.
The panelists have used 
their degrees in diverse ways. 
Delphia, for example, is the 
assistant curator of decorative 
arts at the Carnegie Museum 
of Art, while Scotto has just 
released a version of his book 
Be a Buddy, Not a Bully for the 
iPad.
The celebration concluded 
Friday evening with a keynote 
address by Larry Grossberg, 
professor of communication 
at the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill.
ANNIVERSARY, from A1
and statistics and decision 
science double major who 
helped draft the new policy. 
These revisions are helpful 
insomuch as they let student 
leaders know what policies 
are actually in place.
There are also changes to 
the hours when disruptive 
noise is permitted during 
both weekends and weekdays. 
On Monday through Thursday, such noise is only allowed 
between 4:30 p.m. and 6:30 
p.m., whereas in the 1998 version of the policy, noise was 
permitted from 4:30 p.m. to 
7 p.m. On Fridays, the hours 
are between 4:30 p.m. and 10 
p.m., versus 4:30 p.m. to midnight in the 1998 version.
We want to acknowledge 
that the university should 
have regular operating hours 
where the focus should primarily be studying and being 
in class, Christain explained. 
Theres a policy that undergraduate class[es] arent held, 
or shouldnt be held, between 
4:30 and 6:30, so its a free 
period of time that we can set 
aside for student activities.
The 2012 policy also acknowledges that a vibrant 
campus culture ... will necessarily involve some noise associated with campus activities.
We dont want to squelch 
student life, Christain said.
The new revisions also expand the permissible noise 
hours during the weekend. 
In the 1998 version of the 
noise policy, the hours were 
between 4:30 p.m. and midnight, while the current revision expands this period from 
7 a.m. and 10 p.m.
Although the 2012 revisions might restrict certain 
student organization activities, Weiner doesnt think the 
policy will have much of an 
impact on campus. Students 
are still allowed to play music 
and make noise on the Cut, 
but they should do so at a reasonable volume. At the end of 
the day, I dont think the core 
culture of our university will 
change because people tabling have to turn down their 
speakers, Weiner said.
Senior business administration major Alex Price, the 
general manager of WRCT, 
said he doesnt anticipate the 
radio station being affected. 
WRCT has always done its 
best to not disrupt classes and 
this new policy will not change 
any [of] our activities on the 
Cut, he said in an email. 
We want people to enjoy our 
music, not get an ear full of 
noise. Regardless of any noise 
policy, WRCT always plays its 
music at an appropriate level 
while out on the Cut.
According to Price, WRCT 
has known about the policy 
change since August. 
My adviser for WRCT 
told me about it, Price said. 
He said that if were playing 
music where we normally do, 
and somebodys walking by 
the UC, they shouldnt need 
to raise their voices to hear 
themselves in that conversation. Then I saw the email and 
thought, Its really not a big 
deal. 
NOISE, from A1From Cro-Magnon to post-modernOld noise policy ends with a whimper
LCS celebrates 25 years of students
Jonathan Carreon/Photo Editor
Carnegie Mellon literary and cultural studies alumni Rachel Delphia, Carl Davenport, Luke Niebler, and David 
Pass discuss how they have used their degrees at a panel in celebration of the programs 25th anniversary.
Jonathan Carreon/Photo Editor
Poet and translator Clayton Eshleman discussed his recent book 
Juniper Fuse, which contains poetry based on ancient cave paintings.
Stand-off ends peacefully
MADELYN GLYMOUR
News Editor
A local hostage situation 
ended peacefully on Friday 
when 22-year-old Klein Thaxton surrendered to police.
At approximately 8 a.m. 
on Friday morning, Thaxton 
entered the 16th ?oor of 3 
Gateway Center in Downtown 
and took Charles Breitsman 
of CW Breitsman Associates, 
which organizes pension and 
bene?t plans for other companies, hostage at knifepoint. 
Throughout the ensuing sixhour stand-off, Thaxton regularly updated his Facebook.
Thaxton, who pled guilty 
in January to robbery, receiving stolen property, simple assault, and reckless endangerment, wrote, i cant take it no 
more im done bro, and this 
life im livn rite now i dnt want 
anymore ive lost everything 
and i aint gettn it back, on his 
Facebook account, according 
to the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. 
Police shut down Thaxtons 
Facebook account because 
it was distracting him from 
their attempts to negotiate.
As one of his demands, 
Thaxton asked to speak to 
his former girlfriend. Police 
granted the request. Negotiations were eventually successful. Thaxton surrendered to 
police at about 2 p.m.
Police have not yet revealed a motive for Thaxtons actions. CNN reported 
that Pittsburgh Police Chief 
Nathan Harper said that police believe Thaxton targeted 
Breitsman speci?cally, but 
according to The New York 
Times, Harper said that Thaxton did not know Breitsman.
Breitsman was unharmed. 
According to The New York 
Times and CNN, Thaxton has 
been charged with aggravated assault, kidnapping, and 
terrorist threats.
Put your news hat on.
Photo courtesy of katerha on ?ickr
Email news@thetartan.org to write for news.

---------------------------------------------------

A4  thetartan.org/scitech The Tartan  September 24, 2012
JENNIFER GOLDA
Junior Staffwriter
Last Friday, Carnegie Mellon unveiled its ?rst of?cial 
preview of the universitys 
newest addition: the Wilton E. 
Scott Institute for Energy Innovation.
The campus-wide event 
 titled From Technology 
to Policy: Energy Research 
at Carnegie Mellon  had 
speakers to present and discuss Carnegie Mellons current 
role in the energy innovation 
of and plans for the Scott Institute. Speakers included President Jared Cohon; Granger 
Morgan and Andrew Gellman, 
the new Scott Institutes director and associate director, respectively; and various 
Carnegie Mellon researchers 
who are already tackling the 
energy problem.
Morgan described how 
the new energy institute  
housed in the Carnegie Institute of Technology but still a 
university-wide collaboration 
 will make Carnegie Mellon 
a go-to place in energy-related research and education, 
use resources to coordinate 
and promote synergy between 
colleges, and increase the universitys visibility.
The vision for the Scott 
Institute is to create a partnership of disciplines that act 
toward a better energy environment for the common 
good.
Energy decisions unfold in 
critical, regulatory, environmental, and behavioral context, and we need economic, 
organizational, and policy 
solutions as much as we need 
new technology, Cohon said. 
This is an interdisciplinary 
challenge of the ?rst order, 
and Carnegie Mellon simply 
does this cross-collaboration 
better than any other institution that I know.
However, the speakers 
made clear that there are certain things the institute will 
not do.
Namely, Morgan said that 
the institute will not divert 
corporate membership from 
existing centers, take on research that others on campus 
are already doing, or dictate 
what others do and where 
external support goes on campus. It will be a collaborative 
center for researchers and an 
open place for outsiders and 
non-experts to learn about energy research.
Speaking at the energy 
symposium were 11 faculty 
members, many of whom are 
from or involved with Carnegie Mellons engineering 
and public policy department, 
ready to discuss their research 
and ?ndings in the energy innovation front.
Topics ranged from, Can 
low-cost batteries help us to 
use more renewables and build 
fewer transmission lines? to 
How will human behavior affect energy futures? and Are 
federal policies targeting the 
right plug-in vehicle? Other 
topics represented national 
questions, like the validity of 
clean coal, and local issues, 
such as the advancement of 
local transportation.
Students will see the many 
graduate programs coming 
out of the Scott Institute and 
the new courses available to 
undergraduate students as 
direct impacts. The facility 
will also house research labs, 
including a state-of-the-art 
nanotechnology fabrication 
lab, and it will also serve as the 
home of the biomedical engineering department.
Were in position to make 
an impact on such a greatly 
important problem as this, 
Cohon said. Its an opportunity that goes beyond just that 
 I view it as an obligation for 
Carnegie Mellon.
The institute will be located 
in the soon-to-be-constructed 
Sherman and Joyce Bowie 
Scott Hall, a 100,000-squarefoot building located among 
Hamerschlag, Wean, and Roberts Halls. This new building 
is named after Mr. and Mrs. 
Scott, two alumni whose donations helped fund the institute.
The Sherman and Joyce 
Bowie Scott Hall is slated to 
open in 2015.
New energy institute takes interdisciplinary approach
Kate Groschner/Photo Staff
President Jared Cohon discusses plans for the new Wilton E. Scott Institute for Energy Innovation.
RAGHUNANDAN AVULA
Staffwriter
The successful landing 
of NASAs Curiosity rover on 
Mars has rekindled Americas desire to explore the 
red planet. President Barack 
Obama has said that he would 
like to see the success of a 
manned space exploration 
to Mars by 2030. But before 
NASA can successfully conduct a mission to this unexplored realm, it must ?rst be 
able to ensure the health of its 
astronauts during the eightmonth journey.
A team of biomedical researchers at Carnegie Mellon 
and the University of Louisville have joined this effort. 
They are developing a domeshaped containment unit, 
called an Aqueous Immersion 
Surgical System (AISS), that 
makes performing surgeries 
in the zero-gravity conditions 
of outer space a reality.
The project stems from an 
idea proposed by James Burgess, a neurosurgeon at Allegheny General Hospital who 
wanted to develop a tool that 
would prevent blood from 
?lling a surgical cavity and 
blocking a surgeons view. 
Carnegie Mellon biomedical 
engineering professor James 
Antaki, with the help of Ph.D. 
student Jennifer Hayden, re?ned a system to surround the 
surgical wound with a watertight dome and utilize water 
pressure to control bleeding.
The surgical dome is 
sealed to the skin around the 
injury to prevent contamination. Multiple holes are on the 
domes surface: One allows 
entry of pressure-controlled 
water into the surgical area, 
while another holds a suction 
to prevent waste from ?lling 
the cavity. The domes transparency and its access port for 
surgical tools allow surgeons 
to operate more easily.
On top of the excitement 
that their prototype could be 
utilized in space exploration, 
it is very rewarding knowing 
their tool could immensely 
bene?t trauma patients during surgery on the ground, 
Hayden said.
The next step for the team 
is to test the device in conditions similar to those in outer 
space. Another member of 
the projects team, University 
of Louisville surgery and biomedical engineering professor George Pantalos, collaborated with NASA to conduct 
tests in NASAs C-9 aircraft, 
which travels in parabolic 
arcs to simulate zero-gravity 
conditions.
While in ?ight, the chamber will allow the team to 
test two different functions of 
the device: The watertight 
chamber will contain hollow tubes ?lled with a blood 
substitute that simulate the 
network of blood vessels, 
Hayden explained. After cutting the tubes similar to how 
blood vessels would be cut 
during surgery, the suction 
system should replace the liquid with a clear substitute to 
increase visibility.
In addition to removing 
the blood from the chamber, 
the tool also controls pressure 
to force the vessels to collapse 
and stop the bleeding all together. Using a pig heart 
?lled with an arti?cial ?uid, 
[they] will monitor the pressure at which the bleeding is 
stopped, Hayden said.
Gravity plays an important 
role in surgery, keeping body 
parts and blood in place during the procedure. This can 
present a real complication in 
outer space.
We had to design an evaluation station to surround the 
AISS that would physically 
attach to the plane, catching 
any leaks just in case, because 
it is very hard to clean up a 
blood substitute while ?ying 
sideways, Hayden said.
Hollywood has devised 
its own take on a solution 
to the gravity problem with 
this summers blockbuster 
Prometheus, which features 
a large automated surgical 
chamber. The AISS prototype 
is one of the ?rst steps in astro-biomedical engineering 
to take this big-screen idea 
and make it a reality, which 
could help ensure the health 
of astronauts on their long 
journey.
Researchers to test system that helps with astro-surgery
Rethink Robotics creates human-like robot
Rethink Robotics, a startup company in Boston, has 
taken arti?cial intelligence 
to the next step with the development of the two-armed 
robot, Baxter. The robot displays human-like characteristics, such as facial expressions 
and the ability to adjust to 
unexpected situations. Baxter 
was designed to be integrated 
into the workforce with humans and perform simple, 
repetitive tasks involved with 
manufacturing and assembly.
Unlike past robot models, 
Baxter has mechanisms to 
ensure that it is not a safety 
threat. For example, it can 
sense a human nearby and 
adjust itself accordingly. Rethink Robotics hopes to sell 
such robots for an inexpensive price in order to make the 
use of robots widespread.
Source: The New York Times
Scientists believe to have spotted oldest galaxy
A team of astronomers at 
Johns Hopkins University discovered a galaxy believed to 
be the oldest and most distant 
galaxy ever observed. It was 
detected using NASAs Hubble 
and Spitzer Space telescopes 
and a technique known as 
cosmic magni?cation.
The observed galaxy is believed to be 13.2 billion years 
old, just a half billion years 
younger than the estimated 
age of the universe. Galaxies of this age are believed to 
have contributed to the reionization period, when the 
universe began to transition 
from a total darkness to the 
galaxy we see today. Because 
of its age, the galaxy will be 
a useful tool in studying the 
early history of our universe, 
such as the rise of the ?rst 
stars and galaxies.
Source: Science Daily
People with PTSD may ?nd help in ecstasy use
A research team, led by David Nutt of Imperial College 
London in the U.K., conducted 
a study to determine the effects of the drug ecstasy on 
the brain, and whether it can 
serve as a therapeutic drug for 
post traumatic stress disorder 
(PTSD). 
In the study, participants 
took ecstasy pills, had their 
brains scanned, and were told 
to report back a week later 
and describe their most positive and most negative memories, rating them by their vividness. The team found that 
negative memories were less 
vivid to the participants. The 
study suggests that ecstasy 
could help reduce the shock 
individuals feel when accessing traumatic memories, and 
therefore help them better 
cope with PTSD.
Source: New Scientist
Climate change could bring back ancient plants
In a conference in Toronto, 
Alexandre Guertin-Pasquier, 
of the University of Montreals department of geography, 
presented ?ndings showing that fossilized forests in 
Northern Canada could return due to the warming of 
the Arctic. He studied a 2.6- 
to 3-million-year-old Bylot 
Island fossilized forest, which 
had been preserved over time 
by peat and permafrost.
Guertin-Pasquier and his 
team discovered pollen that 
would normally be found in 
regions where the average 
climate was 32F, while the 
current average temperature 
of Bylot Island is 5F. However, his data models show that 
over time, the climate of Bylot 
Island will once again be able 
to support this type of growth, 
sprouting trees such as willow, pine, and spruce.
Source: Science Daily
Ecologist wonders: Are we running out of plants?
Steven Running, a forest 
ecologist at the University 
of Montana, claims that we 
may be reaching the limit 
of the worlds plant growth. 
He and his team have studied NASA satellite observations since 1982 to infer how 
plant growth has changed 
over time. The observations 
showed that plant growth has 
remained mostly unchanged, 
meaning that human efforts 
to increase plant growth will 
perhaps be ineffective.
Running claims that plant 
growth is a planetary boundary, which is an underlying 
idea that there are certain 
environmental conditions 
that must be met to avoid irreversible damage. He suggests 
that we may be approaching 
Earths limit of plant growth 
and suggests monitoring it 
closely.
Source: The New York Times 
Behavioral characteristics of autism explained
Researchers from Carnegie Mellon, the University 
of Pittsburgh, and the Weizmann Institute of Science in 
Israel conducted a study that 
could explain the causes of 
behavioral traits in autistic 
individuals. 
The researchers scanned 
the brains of 28 participants, 
half autistic and half not. They 
then studied the participants 
reactions to a series of dots 
projected at a ?xed point on a 
computer screen and a series 
of beeps. While non-autistic 
individuals showed constant 
responses, autistic individuals 
had widely varied reactions. 
The study concluded that, 
for autistic individuals, repetitive behaviors may be a coping 
mechanism for these erratic 
brain responses.
Source: Pittsburgh PostGazette
Compiled by
SONIA KATHARANI-KHAN
Courtesy of AV8PIX Christopher Ebdon via ?ickr
From Oct. 25, a team of Carnegie Mellon researchers will test an astro-surgery technique aboard the NASA 
C-9, shown above, which will simulate zero-gravity conditions. 

---------------------------------------------------

September 24, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/scitech  A5
MICHAEL SETZER
Assistant SciTech Editor
The discovery of a potential 
tumor can be a challenging 
experience for patients and 
physicians. While the patient 
needs to understand whats 
going on, the physician has to 
decide if the tumor needs to 
be removed immediately. This 
process is not as clear-cut as 
it seems. There are relatively 
few tools available to help a 
physician determine what exact course of action should be 
followed, but researchers at 
Carnegie Mellon are about to 
help them out.
Robert Murphy, head of the 
Ray and Stephanie Lane Center for Computational Biology, 
and Gustavo Rohde, an associate professor with Carnegie 
Mellons department of biomedical engineering, recently 
received a $1 million grant 
from the Commonwealth Universal Research Enhancement 
(CURE) program to develop 
more speci?c cancer-detection computer programs. The 
project is also supported by a 
$500,000 grant from the Omnyx Corporation.
Murphy will be the lead 
director of the project; he and 
Rohde will be assisted by pathologists from the University 
of Pittsburgh Medical Center 
(UPMC).
Rohde and Murphy plan for 
the project to be able to analyze the tissues of thousands 
of patients  which, considering the rate at which scientists 
currently analyze tissue, is a 
huge innovation.
When a potential tumor is 
spotted, a patient undergoes 
a biopsy  the removal of a 
piece of tissue. As of now, to 
determine cancer verdicts, 
pathologists observe the cells 
in the biopsies in labs. These 
specialists use medical equipment, patient history, and 
broad knowledge to diagnose 
a tissue sample. Despite the 
pathologists expertise, the 
cancer diagnosis process can 
be relatively slow, and still relies on human judgment without much assistance.
In Rohdes and Murphys 
project, images of the tissue 
would be entered into a computer program that would segment the image of tissue into 
smaller images of thousands 
of individual cells. Next, these 
cellular portraits would be 
compared to images of other 
cells  both cancerous and 
healthy  in the programs 
data bank.
The program would then 
be able to use an algorithm 
to match the image of the cell 
with other similar or nearly 
identical images. Using stored 
information on the matching cell images, the program 
would determine the probability of whether the cell in question is dangerous.
Speci?cally, Rohde and 
Murphys research will focus 
on certain types of prostate 
and liver cancers.
Rohde has already created programs for such computer systems, usually using 
a data set of 1015 people. 
This project will allow his lab 
to test the system on a much 
larger scale with thousands 
of people. And since its such 
an advanced undertaking, the 
program needs an incredibly 
large amount of data. Murphy 
and Rohde are collaborating 
with pathologists at UPMC 
to help gather the necessary 
information.
While Rohdes primary 
focus is using data to match 
the images of cells, Murphys 
research focuses on the individual proteins of the cells. 
Each cell has thousands of 
proteins, too many to be feasibly observed by any human. 
Murphys lab, however, is 
aimed at looking at subcellular compartments referred 
to as organelles, and trying 
to decipher localized proteins 
that may be speci?c to certain 
liver or pqwancreatic cancers. 
The data would, like Rohdes 
program, be able to tell the 
pathologist the nature of the 
proteins.
Rohde claims the project 
has the potential to make a 
large impact in the area of 
cancer research and identi?-
cation. Its important to note, 
however, that the program 
is just another tool to make 
cancer detection more ef?-
cient and effective. Rohde explained that it allows pathologists to perform tasks that 
humans cant, like quantifying 
huge amounts of data.
Rohde is excited by the 
potential magnitude of the 
project. When opportunity 
comes to transition this to the 
real world [it is] always exciting, he said. I think everyone 
appreciates the opportunity 
that, if this is to work well, 
[it] could be meaningful and 
good for a lot of people, for us 
professionally, but also for the 
greater good.
The end goal of the entire 
project is to create a product 
that could be sold and used 
in a healthcare setting, rather 
than be a conversation piece 
for an academics of?ce.
Cell-inspecting system could improve cancer diagnoses
Courtesy of crafty_dame via ?ickr
Carnegie Mellon researchers are developing a system that inspects thousands of images of cancer cells, such as those shown above, to improve 
cancer diagnoses.
... if this is 
to work well, 
[it] could be 
meaningful and 
good for a lot of 
people, for us 
professionally, 
but also for the 
greater good.
Gustavo Rohde 
BME professor

---------------------------------------------------

Flex your business skills.
Join The Tartans business staff.
business@thetartan.org

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

Office: University Center 314
Phone: (412) 268-2111
Fax: (412) 268-1596
Web: www.thetartan.org
E-mail: contact@thetartan.org
Mail:
The Tartan
Box 119, UC Suite 103 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Editorial Staff
 2012 The Tartan, all rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN: 0890-3107
The Tartan is a student newspaper at Carnegie Mellon University, funded in part by the student 
activities fee. It is a weekly publication by students during the fall and spring semesters, printed 
by Trib Total Media. The Tartan is not an official publication of Carnegie Mellon University. The 
first issue is free; subsequent issues cost $0.50 at the discretion of The Tartan. Subscriptions are 
available on a per semester basis.
The Editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The 
Tartan Editorial Board. Columns, Editorial Cartoons, and Reviews are the opinions of their 
individual creators. The Tartan Editorial Staff reserves the right to withhold from publication 
any copy it deems unfit.
Letters to the Editor are the opinions of their authors. Letters from within the University community take precedence. Letters intended for publication must be signed and include the authors 
address and telephone number for verification; letters must not exceed 350 words. Authors names 
may be withheld from publication upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject 
any letter. Letters must be submitted by 5 p.m. on the Wednesday before publication by mail or to 
forum@thetartan.org.
* Denotes executive committee 
member
StaffEditorial Board
FROM THE EDITORIAL BOARD
CHRISTA HESTER *
Publisher
EMILY DOBLER *
Editor-in-Chief
JOSH SMITH 
Forum Editor 
EVAN KAHN
Copy Manager
JACKSON LANE
Senior Staffwriter
ANNA WALSH *
Personnel Manager
BRENT HEARD
Asst. News EditorSENIOR STAFF 
Stephanie Blotner, Stacey Chin, Stephanie 
Guerdan, Greg Hanneman, Alan Vangpat
LAYOUT
Chloe Chia, Abby Smith, Edward Wojciechowski 
COPY
Swathi Anand, Manali Banerjee, Sawsan 
Boutemine, Kairavi Chahal, Connie Chan, 
Nivedita Chopra, Hannah Dellabella, Braden 
Kelner, Sage Po, Taylor Rawley, Stephanie 
Stern, Chloe Thompson, Julia Yang
ADVERTISING
Grace Chung, Seo Young Hwang
JENNIFER COLOMA *
Operations Manager
MADELYN GLYMOUR
News Editor
DANIEL TKACIK
SciTech Editor
ALEX TAPAK
Sports Co-Editor
ADAM GRUBER
Sports Co-Editor
ALLISON COSBY *
Pillbox Editor 
NICOLE HAMILTON
Comics Editor
JONATHAN CARREON
Photo Editor
ADELAIDE COLE
Art Editor
ALEX CRICHTON
Systems Manager
KATHY CHEN
Advertising Manager
KENNETH WONG
Business Manager
JUSTIN MCGOWN
Online Editor
KELLY HARRINGTON
Asst. Systems Manager
BONITA LEUNG
Asst. Copy Manager
RACHEL COHEN
Asst. Pillbox Editor
MICHAEL SETZER
Asst. SciTech Editor
A8  thetartan.org/forum The Tartan  September 24, 2012
This year, Dining Services has 
made a real effort to expand and improve on-campus dining locations, 
with the addition of at least four new 
eateries (Nakama Express, El Gallo 
de Oro, the Creperie, and Stackers). 
We appreciate the steps that have 
been made to improve students dining experience; for the most part, the 
changes have been successful.
Nakama Express, which replaced 
Sushi Too, has a larger variety of sushi blocks to choose from than did its 
predecessor, with a tasty and entirely 
vegetarian option available. The eatery also has a Chefs Special Creation 
menu item, adding a little variety to 
students often routine dining experiences.
Stackers is another new restaurant in Resnik. Its sandwich-building 
station, similar to Subway or Quiznos, is a welcome addition on campus. The Creperie, located on the 
second ?oor of the University Center, is also doing quite well, with frequent long lines of students waiting 
for sweet or savory crepes.
The one new addition to campus 
dining that doesnt sit quite well with 
the Carnegie Mellon community is El 
Gallo de Oro. 
As good as the eaterys quesadillas might be, it will always and forever be compared to more popular 
Mexican cuisine, like Chipotle or 
other burrito chains. Students have 
these tasty options readily available 
off campus, so if El Gallo de Oro 
wants to win over students, it needs 
to step up its game.
And while many of the new dining 
locations have impressed us, some of 
the older ones have as well. Skibo, 
for instance, has really improved 
the quality of its food since last year. 
Many students have a love-hate relationship with the eatery because of 
its history of subpar food and spotty 
service. But where else can a hungry, 
stressed-out student get a bite to eat 
late at night?
Skibo seems to have improved its 
service. The staff seems to be keeping more food in stock so late-night 
eaters have an actual menu to order from, there are more side items 
to choose from, and theyre putting 
some extra care into food preparation. The eatery hasnt changed 
much on their menu, so when the 
quality of the food improves, its especially noticeable.
If youve been disillusioned with 
campus eateries in the past, give 
them another chance. We would encourage students to try out all the 
new dining locations and give Dining 
Services the feedback it needs.
Students need more awareness of campus changes
On-campus dining options make delicious comeback
Voting registration efforts are welcome on campus
With Nov. 6 quickly approaching, 
voters will once again make important decisions that will shape the 
future of the nation. However, with 
recent changes to the voting process 
 including the institution of the 
Voter ID Law  voting may become 
more dif?cult. In addition to this 
law, college students in particular 
may ?nd voting in this coming election especially troublesome because 
of issues with absentee voting and 
the potential lack of proper identi?-
cation.
With these impending dif?culties, 
we deeply appreciate the measures 
taken by student government, College Democrats, PennPIRG, and other partnered organizations to make 
voter registration easier and more 
accessible to students.
If you have crossed the Cut since 
the semester started, then you have 
no doubt seen the tables set up to 
register students to vote or to provide 
additional help for students who are 
currently registered in other states. 
Volunteers are also scattered across 
campus, approaching students in 
attempts to ensure that they will be 
able to vote on Election Day.
At times, being approached every 
day by volunteers with clipboards 
asking you if youre registered can 
be annoying. However, this is preferable to not having any readily available resources.
With the hectic schedules and 
immense workloads most students 
face, making sure you are properly 
registered to vote before the appropriate deadlines may not be so easy. 
Providing options and information 
to the student body on campus helps 
alleviate some issues with the convoluted registration system.
The student government executives have outlined further plans to 
increase awareness for the coming 
election and to ensure that students 
have the resources available to properly register. These measures include 
making absentee voting methods 
available and summarizing the positions of local candidates for students, 
according to the student government 
executives platform and a recent letter to The Tartan on student government initiatives and progress.
We commend student governments coordination efforts with 
College Democrats and PennPIRG to 
register student voters, and we hope 
such efforts are further expanded 
upon throughout the semester as we 
approach Election Day. 
Providing these resources to students is an excellent way to counteract the apathy that often plagues 
Carnegie Mellons campus and to ensure that our voices are heard in the 
coming election.
Josh Smith/Forum Editor
Since this summer, there have 
been many signi?cant changes to 
campus that affect the student body. 
Weve seen parking meters erected 
on Margaret Morrison Street, the 
recently altered noise policy for student organizations, and new campus 
eateries added  to name just a few. 
Regardless of whether or not 
these developments directly bene?t 
students, there is one complaint that 
connects all of them: Many students 
feel that they were not adequately 
informed of decisions that would affect them, if they were informed at 
all. 
This complaint should be addressed by the university administration as soon as possible.
The administration most likely 
has its own methods in place for deciding what information to disseminate to the student body, and these 
methods for deciding are probably 
well thought out. 
However, judging by many students negative responses to their 
?nding out about these changes after 
theyve already occurred, the current 
methods of dissemination simply 
arent working.
The student body regularly receives emails about university press 
releases, usually regarding the retiring of faculty members or the 
achievements of alumni. 
While its admittedly important to 
acknowledge esteemed members of 
our community, these are pieces of 
news that might be best kept to the 
website meant for university press 
releases, in order to save these emails 
for changes in the Carnegie Mellon 
community that directly affect students. This would probably be a better option than emailing about every 
update, as students are rather inundated with campus-related emails 
already.
Another method of getting important information to interested 
parties might be to post everything 
on the university press releases website, then have members of Student 
Senate get out the information thats 
pertinent to the student bodys livelihood through the use of social media 
like Facebook, Twitter, and website 
updates.
Regardless of how this problem is 
addressed, it should be done before 
students are surprised by yet another, perhaps unwelcome, change.
Manipulated statistics give voters wrong idea
ELI ZOGHLIN
Junior Staffwriter
With the upcoming election, we 
as citizens and potential voters are 
subjected to a veritable storm of political advertisements.
One campaign advertisement 
supporting President Barack Obama 
called Republican presidential 
candidate Mitt Romney a corporate raider, saying that he sent 
thousands of jobs overseas at Bain 
Capital while showing pictures of 
him smiling. It clearly casts his past 
business career in a malicious light, 
making it seem like Romney enjoyed outsourcing American jobs. 
On the other hand, various Romney 
campaign advertisements criticize 
Obamacare and suggest that Obama 
has it out for old people. Pictures of 
depressed and lonely-looking senior 
citizens ?ash by, while the advertisements talk about raising the costs of 
services for the elderly.
While the accuracy of either of 
these claims is debatable, our candidates are clearly attempting to 
manipulate voters emotions. Such 
strategies have always been in American politics; politicians will always 
manipulate their opponents images 
and mudsling. It is far easier to convince the average voter by playing 
to his or her fears and desires rather 
than by using concrete facts.
I ?nd these advertisements distasteful, regardless of the side they 
are aimed at. However, these personal attacks are not the politicking technique that makes me the 
most furious. Politicians toss around 
statistics, often using the same one 
or two numbers in order to make a 
point. These statistics are usually 
simple and therefore easy to use as 
a talking point and a buzzword. The 
trouble with these sound bite-style 
statistics is that they are often misleading, out of context, or just plain 
wrong.
To illustrate, on Sept. 8, Obama 
claimed at an appearance in Seminole, Fla., that, Weve doubled our 
use of renewable energy. However, 
there is more to this catch-all statistic that meets the eye. When one digs 
a little deeper, it is clear that this accomplishment is far less important 
than it seems. The use of all types of 
renewable energy has actually only 
increased by 55 percent, according 
to PoltiFact.com. Solar and wind 
power match up to Obamas statistic, but they make up only a fraction 
of renewable energy sources. After 
including the less impressive growth 
in sources like hydroelectric and 
geothermal power, Obamas claim 
becomes completely false.
The president is by no means the 
only one doing this: Romney spouts 
similar misleading statistics. In a 
recently released video of a private 
Romney fundraising event, he said 
that 47 percent of households dont 
pay taxes. It appears to be a shocking failure in the American tax code.
But theres a catch. First, that 
fact is no longer accurate, as its 
based off data taken from 2009. In 
addition, the statistic only refers to 
federal income taxes. Many families 
make so little that they dont pay 
federal income taxes, but they still 
pay state and local taxes as well as 
investment and payroll taxes. 
In both cases, the statistic is technically true, but only by a caveat that 
is either made or disregarded by the 
candidate. Its clear that politicians 
can use statistics to control and manipulate us. The real question is, 
why are we as a society allowing 
that to happen?
The reason politicians get to depend on statistics is because people 
are ignorant of their true nature. 
We need a populace that gains 
skepticism of all simple sound bite 
statistics by understanding them at 
a basic level. This means we need 
to reprioritize our mathematical 
education system. We need a bigger 
emphasis on statistics and statistical 
analysis at an earlier age.
By helping the population see 
through the haze and fog of twisted statistics, we can have a voting 
populace that is far more capable of 
seeing beyond politicking and mudslinging. Another aspect of democracy is its goal to represent the common mans opinion and serve the 
people. If the people can see clearly 
what is happening in their country 
by interpreting data, they can more 
easily cast their vote in accordance 
with their beliefs and opinions.
LETTER TO THE EDITORCarnegie Mellon stress helps students develop
Dear Carnegie Mellon,
Up until now, I didnt think Id 
changed at all since high school. I 
still believe in the same things, make 
the same lame jokes, forget peoples 
names, and all that stuff. But actually, Carnegie Mellon, youve made 
me forget what the word hard 
means.
I realized this when some students in Concepts class complained 
that the homework was too hard because they had to get help on it. My 
?rst reaction was to laugh because, 
duh, you werent supposed to know 
how to do it without help. But not all 
of them know that. I didnt when I 
?rst came to college.
If I could ?ash back to freshman 
year, you would see someone constantly wrestling with feelings of 
inadequacy. 
Every time I couldnt solve a problem on the problem set, I blamed the 
professor for making things too hard 
or blamed my own intelligence. It 
sucked. I felt small every day.
But somewhere along the way, 
I realized that you were supposed 
to need help. If the homework was 
easy enough that you could just 
coast by, then you were actually 
wasting your time, because its when 
things are challenging and you need 
help or youre going to die that you 
end up learning and getting more 
out of stuff.
As a result, I literally dont see 
anything as hard anymore. If anything, its doable, and the idea that 
every problem you could ever come 
across is doable is a comforting idea. 
I have to thank you, Carnegie Mellon, for constantly making me do 
things that I dont immediately understand because I no longer see uncertainty as a measure of my intelligence, but rather of my initiative.
TL;DR: By making me feel stupid, 
I dont feel stupid anymore.
Keenan Wendi Gao
MCS, Class of 2015

---------------------------------------------------

A PERSONS OPINION
The Tartan has been looking into the possibility of time travel. So we asked,
If you could go back in time one week, what would you change?
Compiled by Jonathan Carreon
September 24, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/forum  A9
Both ?lm and extremists to blameiPhone 5 doesnt have that revolutionary feel
Privacy nonexistent in 21st century
LUKE MASA
Junior Staffwriter
Would you be willing to kill for 
your beliefs? A portion of us may be 
able to profess our willingness to die 
for what we hold most dear, but taking the life of another doesnt often 
factor into our thought processes. Yet 
there are those who seem to be on 
the offensive in being offended, taking even the smallest slight against 
their ideas as a declaration of war.
Recently Nakoula Basseley 
Nakoula, under the assumed name 
of Sam Bacile, released a ?lm titled 
Innocence of Muslims. The ?lm depicts the Muslim prophet Muhammad as a child abuser, womanizer, 
and homosexual. Needless to say, 
such a portrayal of the ?gure  who, 
in the Islamic faith, is not meant to 
be depicted at all  stirred up quite 
the controversy.
In the days after the ?lms translation into Arabic, there were mass 
riots outside various Western embassies. Flags were burned, threats were 
issued, and many were injured; some 
even died. 
Unfortunately, such a turn of 
events should come as no surprise 
considering the 2005 controversy of 
a Danish cartoons depiction of Muhammad, as well as various other examples that have made headlines in 
the past decade.
Nakoula was well aware of the 
response his ?lm would elicit, and 
probably counted on it. He deceived 
those he worked with in the production of the ?lm  he pretended to be 
a Jewish Israeli, when in fact he is 
an Egyptian Coptic Christian. More 
importantly, an actor from the ?lm, 
Miles Crawley, revealed to the Los 
Angeles Times that Nakoula duped 
the ?lms actors into thinking they 
were in a Biblical-era reenactment 
and proceeded to overdub a portion 
of their lines with references to Muhammad and the Quran.
There is no question that the actions taken by Nakoula were wrong, 
and they should in no way be excused. 
The ?lm itself is extremely offensive not just to Muslims, but also to 
the sensibilities of most people. That 
being said, it speaks of a more dire 
problem that approximately 14 minutes of a YouTube video can spark 
global violence.
South Park, Family Guy, and other 
such programs have made far more 
offensive material directed at Christians in the past, and even the most 
Bible-thumping of the evangelicals 
have done little more than express 
their typical canned response involving their being oppressed.
How is it that, in this day and age, 
there are still ideas that are unassailable? It is depressing if one cannot 
express criticism without the fear 
of death. Such an extremist, fundamentalist, and distorted view of the 
ideology attempts to destroy any and 
all opposition to it, instead of discussing the problems raised in a levelheaded and rational matter.
There may not be a solution to 
this problem, other than perhaps 
waiting several more generations for 
the most fervent adherents to disappear. 
But such a solution is not an adequate response to what appears to 
be one of the most grave matters of 
our time. Coupled with the proliferation of nuclear weapons and our continued misuse of natural resources, I 
shudder to think what future we will 
be left to inherit, if any at all.
One can only hope that there can 
be an awakening of skepticism and 
free thinking on a level far greater 
than the recent reactionary measures taken throughout the world. I 
wrote last week that maybe creationism was ?nally in its death throes, 
but it would appear that fundamentalism of a different ?avor will put up 
a much greater ?ght.
I will question everything, and 
never become so steadfast or con?-
dent in my worldview so as to in?ict 
harm upon those who dissent. 
I encourage you to do the same, 
but I wont threaten violence if you 
dont.
CHLOE THOMPSON
Junior Staffwriter
This month, another royal scandal hit the papers. This time, Catherine, the Duchess of Cambridge, 
caught the medias eye while she 
and her husband, Prince William, 
were vacationing in France. A photograph of the former Ms. Middleton sunbathing topless appeared in 
the French version of the magazine 
Closer, taken while the couple were 
staying in a private villa.
The royal family sued the French 
magazine and won; the magazine 
is no longer allowed to publish the 
photographs, under threat of heavy 
?nes.
Of course, once this scandal became news, everyone had an opinion 
to offer. They ranged from Donald 
Trumps totally unsympathetic statement via Twitter, Kate Middleton 
is great  but she shouldnt be sunbathing in the nude  only herself 
to blame, to the unrealistic statement by Rosa Monckton, a friend of 
Williams late mother, who pleaded 
leave Kate alone via Twitter.
The Duchess and Duke have a 
right to their privacy, but that doesnt 
mean theyll get it. If the Duchess of 
Cambridge wants to take her shirt off 
while sunbathing with her husband, 
thats her choice, but her decision 
will have consequences. The amount 
of effort people put into knowing every single detail about her life, and 
the lives of celebrities in general, is 
ridiculous. Unfortunately, its the 
level of obsession that comes with 
being a public ?gure.
Before Middletons marriage, the 
situation might have been different, 
but she married into one of the only 
royal families still prominent and active in the social world. She was the 
girl next door who married a prince. 
Thats the stuff from which Disney 
has made millions of dollars, so the 
story has a certain appeal. No one 
ever mentions the crazed paparazzi 
lurking at the end of your driveway 
after the nuptials are over, but hey, 
Disneys only got two hours to work 
with.
The problem with living in such a 
media-dependent world is that nothing ever goes away. The Duchess 
learned that lesson the hard way this 
month; her brother-in-law Prince 
Harry learned it too, at a party in 
Las Vegas in August. What happens 
in Vegas de?nitely does not stay in 
Vegas, a private French villa is never 
completely private, and once something gets on the internet, it will 
never disappear. This is a lesson that 
applies to more than just the royal 
families of the world: college students would do well to remember it 
too. In a world where everyone and 
his mother has a smartphone, every 
minute has the potential to be caught 
on ?lm.
Once those pictures hit the internet, theres no going back. Right 
now, it may seem like a brilliant idea 
to post pictures of yourself drunk, 
smoking weed, or making out with 
your signi?cant other. But what 
about when a company you want an 
internship with checks your Facebook? Or a potential employer investigates your Twitter? The internet is a 
public place, and people are going to 
be watching, regardless of your royal 
status.
BRADEN KELNER
Apple Inc. CEO Tim Cook recently took the stage in San Francisco, 
Calif., to announce the tech giants 
latest and greatest in handheld technology. Standing before a crowded 
room of tech enthusiasts, Cook discussed the release of a variety of 
new Apple products, including a 
redesigned iPod Touch, iPod Nano, 
and a device the world has been anticipating since 2010: the iPhone 5.
Although Cook followed tradition by unveiling the companys latest smartphone at an annual press 
conference, he failed to meet the 
audiences expectations for a device 
that stands to change the game of 
the smartphone world. Despite a variety of improvements over Apples 
earlier iPhone models, the iPhone 
5 fails to impress on the same level 
as previous devices  yes, even the 
iPhone 4S.
I must admit the iPhone 5s improvements over the 4S are vast: 4G 
LTE data speeds, a 4-inch screen, a 
thinner design, an improved charging port, revamped headphones, 
and a faster processor, to name a 
few.
But where is the wow factor 
that usually accompanies an iPhone 
unveiling? Wheres the new feature 
that sets the iPhone apart from its 
competitors and older siblings?
The original iPhone revolutionized the smart phone industry. 
The iPhone 3G made faster speeds 
mainstream and established the 
concept of an App Store. The 3GS 
even introduced an improved camera and bee?er processor which, at 
the time, was enough to impress. 
The iPhone 4 welcomed FaceTime, a 
high resolution retina display, and a 
new hardware design. The 4S came 
equipped with sassy voice-assistant 
Siri.
No other phone had these features at the time of its release, effectively setting these iPhone models 
apart from the competition.
Now the tables have turned. Apple is no longer the leader in innovation, as evidenced from the iPhone 
5s announcement. None of the 
major features introduced by Apple 
at the conference are unique to the 
iPhone 5, and many of the features 
have already been integrated by other tech companies.
What about 4G LTE speeds? 
Theyve been around so long  
since 2010  that they have become 
standard among smartphones.
What about the bigger 4-inch 
screen? Been there, done that. With 
phones like the Samsung Galaxy S 
III, which boasts a 4.8-inch screen, 
the iPhone 5s screen doesnt seem 
so big.
But what about the new design? 
Take a look at the iPhone 4 and then 
ask yourself again how new the design is.
The release of the iPhone 5 is 
even more disappointing when one 
considers what could have been 
included beneath the shiny metal 
covering. 
With all the talk regarding near 
?eld communication (NFC), a technology that allows data transferring 
such as ticket or credit card payments through a smartphone, Apple 
had the chance to make an established but underdeveloped technology an industry standard. 
Not only would the inclusion 
of an easy-to-use version of NFC 
have set the iPhone 5 apart from 
other smartphones, it would have 
changed the way society handles 
store purchases.
Lets face it: Apple is playing 
catch-up. In a world where it was 
once the leader, Apple has fallen 
behind the pack  or at least into 
the middle of a class of high-end 
smartphones. The latest iteration of 
the iPhone serves the sole purpose 
of adding necessary upgrades to a 
device that will sell record numbers 
because of its loyal fanbase and reputation, not because of innovative 
features.
That said, my preordered iPhone 
is set to ship soon and you can bet 
Im counting down the seconds until 
it arrives.
Braden Kelner (bik@) is a staffwriter 
for The Tartan.
Annette Ko/Junior Artist
Chloe Chia/Junior Artist
Gail Wilson
Computer Science
First-year
Id want to stop dropping food 
on the ground, and start eating 
it.
Chelsea Hulse
Psychology & Decision Sciences
Senior
I wish I celebrated my birthday 
more. Your 21st only happens 
once.
Andrea Fletcher
Computer Science
First-year
I would not sleep through as 
many classes as I did.
Martin Smith
Economics
First-year
I wouldve put Mark Ingram in 
my fantasy lineup.
Max Willsey
Computer Science
First-year
I would get out of Gates more.

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

September 24, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/sports  A11
Max Tassano puts three past Bison goalie in victory
ADAM GRUBER
Sports Co-Editor
The No. 7-ranked mens 
soccer team put on a goalscoring showcase on the back 
of junior forward Max Tassanos three goals and one 
assist, beating the Bethany 
College Bison 62. After the 
victory, the Tartans record 
sits at 71, having won ?ve 
games straight. The Bisons 
record, meanwhile, fell to 
16.
By keeping up the attack 
throughout the entire game, 
the Tartans were able to bury 
the Bison, scoring three goals 
in both halves. Carnegie Mellon more than tripled the 
number of shots on goal the 
Bison had, winning that statistic 278.
Those shots put pressure on the Bison defense all 
game long and kept the ball 
away from their offense. But 
Tassanos pinpoint shooting 
kept the Tartans ef?cient: 
He scored three times on just 
three shots. Junior mid?elders Chris Wysocki and Matt 
Sarett led the Tartans with 
?ve shots on goal each.
[Tassano] was a consistent threat the entire game 
and capitalized on the opportunities he was given, senior 
forward Alex Abedian said. 
Doing these things are both 
traits of a high-quality forward.
Sarrett also scored a goal, 
along with senior defender 
Ben Bryant and junior defender Cole Christensen.
Excellent passing helped 
the Tartans create these scoring opportunities; of the six 
goals, four were assisted and 
Tassano, Bryant, Wysocki, 
and sophomore mid?elder 
Brandon Peck all assisted on 
goals in the game. 
The Bison offense was kept 
away from the action for most 
of the game, so junior goalkeeper Christopher Madden 
was not challenged too much 
in goal in this bout. 
Carnegie Mellon has a history of dominating the Bison, 
beating Bethany College ?ve 
consecutive times dating back 
to the 2008 season.
The Tartans are back on 
the ?eld at home on Sunday 
against the Washington University Bears in St. Louis. The 
game is scheduled to start at 
1:30 p.m.
File photo by Alan Vangpat/Senior Photographer
Junior forward Max Tassano (No. 9) had a career night against the Bethany College Bison, totaling seven 
points in the game with three goals and one assist.
Womens soccer undefeated 
after win over Fighting Scots
CARL GLAZER
Staffwriter
The Carnegie Mellon 
womens soccer team staved 
off the College of Wooster 
Fighting Scots last Saturday 
with a 31 victory, remaining 
undefeated this season and 
bringing its overall record to 
602.
The game was a defensive 
struggle with only seven total shots on goal registered 
between the two teams. After 
initially starting off aggressive and keeping the ball in 
the Fighting Scots half of the 
?eld, the Tartans fell victim to 
a quick free kick goal in the 
13th minute against junior 
keeper Anna Albi.
Riled up, senior forward 
Brianna Magill quickly responded by scoring her second goal of the season 19 seconds later. First-year forward 
Louisa Pendergast set up the 
shot with her ?rst of two assists for the day.
After missed opportunities 
on corner kicks for both sides, 
the score remained 11 going 
into halftime. 
After battling back a period-opening surge by Wooster, 
the Tartans ?nally took the 
lead with a goal by sophomore mid?elder Lucy Havens 
in the 59th minute. Pendergast recorded her second assist of the game as Havens 
made her second goal of the 
season.
Both teams then struggled 
to control the ball and get any 
offense going until sophomore forward Courtney Brant 
put the game out of reach 
with her second goal of the 
season in the 82nd minute.
At one point, the game 
had a 50-minute delay due 
to lightning in the area, but 
the Tartans came back just 
as strong to secure their sixth 
victory of the young season.
It was a great team win 
for us. We came together and 
fought hard after being down 
10 early on. It was a game 
that was good preparation 
as we head into conference 
play, said senior mid?elder 
Stephanie Hare.
Carnegie Mellon will play 
an away game against Grove 
City College on Wednesday 
before beginning University 
Athletic Association conference play against Washington 
University in St. Louis Bears 
on Sunday at home. 
Last season, Carnegie Mellon came up short against 
Washington University in St. 
Louis. The Bears beat the Tartans 30, as they were ranked 
No. 12 in NCAA D-III womens 
soccer.
The Tartans look poised to 
redeem last seasons loss after remaining undefeated in 
eight games thus far and the 
Bears falling out of the top 25.
Sundays game begins at 
11 a.m.
File photo by Alan Vangpat/Senior Photographer
First-year forward Louisa Pendergast (No. 6) had two assists in the 
Tartans victory over the College of Wooster.
Dive into journalismsports@thetartan.org
lost the battle to expand the 
sport into nontraditional regions in the Sun Belt.
Most of the problems 
that caused this lockout are 
a result of the failing Sun 
Belt franchises. These franchises failed to attract the 
fair-weather fans, and any 
foothold gained by the teams 
was wiped out by the previous 
lockout.
The NHL is losing its battle 
against other major league 
sports. This has created a 
downward spiral: Teams cannot ?ll arenas, and therefore 
cannot create enough revenue 
to afford a competitive roster. 
These losing teams drive away 
fans, leaving arenas barren. 
In order for the NHL to 
regain its status as one of 
Americas top sports organizations, it may be necessary 
to contract the league back 
to its roots in Canada and the 
northern U.S.
Hockey also suffers from 
high start-up costs in order 
for youth to play. Ice hockey is 
just as hard, since it requires 
ice  which is not widely 
available in most of the U.S. 
 and skates, which are expensive. Compare this to a 
game of basketball, which 
only requires a ball and a 
hoop.
This current lockout is just 
another example of how out of 
touch the leagues owners are 
from both current and future 
fans. The 200405 lockout 
nearly killed the league and 
yet, eight years later, we are 
in the same situation. Hockey 
players are already paid the 
least compared to players 
in other big sports leagues, 
yet owners are still unhappy 
enough about money to disrupt their revenue stream.
Unless the league sees the 
light and begins to understand its current place on the 
edge of American sports, the 
NHL may not be able to exist much longer in its current 
state. If this lockout eliminates a full season like it did 
eight years ago, Im not con?-
dent the league will be able to 
come back.
LOCKOUT, from A12
SPORTS COMMENTARYNHL faces loss of support

---------------------------------------------------

A12  thetartan.org/sports The Tartan  September 24, 2012
ADAM GRUBER
Sports Co-Editor
The Tartans looked dominant on the turf at Gesling 
Stadium again, clobbering 
the DePauw University Tigers on Saturday by a score of 
5128. The 51-point offensive 
outburst helped the Tartans 
reach a total record of 40 for 
the season.
Junior full back Zachary 
Erra-Hernandez led the way 
for the Tartans, rushing for 
116 yards and three touchdowns on 14 carries. As a 
whole, the team rushed for an 
incredible 220 yards, averaging an astounding 5.4 yards 
per carry.
The Tigers inability to stop 
the Tartans rushing game 
opened up the passing game, 
as junior quarterback Rob 
Kalkstein completed 13 of his 
15 passes for 314 yards and 
three touchdowns. Kalkstein 
hit DePauw early, completing 
an 83-yard touchdown pass to 
sophomore wide receiver Timothy Swanson on the ?rst play 
of the game after the opening 
kickoff.
We had great protection 
for Robbie [Kalkstein] and his 
receivers ran excellent patterns, said head coach Rick 
Lackner. Robbie made great 
in-game choices, all a part of 
good preparation by offensive 
coordinator Rich Erdelyi and 
his staff.
Swanson was Kalksteins 
favorite target for the game, 
but only marginally. Swanson 
had four receptions for 153 
yards and two touchdowns, 
while junior wide receiver Tim 
Kikta had three receptions for 
95 yards and a touchdown.
While the DePauw defense had no trouble racking 
up yardage, Carnegie Mellons ability to force turnovers 
kept the Tigers offense off 
the ?eld. DePauws interim 
head coach Scott Srnka relied 
too much on ?rst-year quarterback Justin Murray, who 
threw two interceptions in the 
game. Murray threw 40 times, 
only completing 20 passes, although he found the end zone 
four times.
The Tartan defense also 
forced three fumbles, recovering two. Senior linebackers Nick Karabin and Chris 
Blomstedt led the team with 
11 tackles each, and Karabin 
forced and recovered one of 
the aforementioned fumbles. 
Sophomore outside linebacker Alex DAngelo was the 
receiver for both of Murrays 
interceptions.
This Saturday, the Tartans 
travel to Wabash College in 
Crawfordsville, Ind., to play 
the Little Giants. Kickoff is at 
2 p.m.
Tartan offense explodes for 51 points, team now 40
Kelsey Scott/Junior Photographer
Senior cornerback Sam Thompson (No. 17) had two punt returns on the game for 31 total yards, with his longest being a 19-yard return.
CARL GLAZER
Staffwriter
For the second time in 
eight seasons, National Hockey League (NHL) owners 
have locked out their players. 
This is now the fourth time 
the league has locked out its 
players in its history. With all 
of the September preseason 
games canceled and with the 
players and owners refusing 
to negotiate, the possibility 
of a quick resolution seems 
bleak. What the NHL owners fail to realize, however, 
is that whatever money they 
gain through the negotiations will be lost to massive 
public backlash.
Unlike the other major 
American sports leagues, the 
NHL has signi?cant overseas 
competition. The Kontinental 
Hockey League (KHL) out of 
Eurasia is the NHLs largest 
competitor for top talent. As 
more elite hockey talent is 
developed in Eastern Europe, 
the decision to move to the 
U.S. and embrace a new culture is not as easy as it was 
when Washington Capitals 
left winger Alexander Ovechkin came over in 2005.
While the NHL may have 
been set up for a talent war 
with the KHL in the coming years, it certainly isnt 
doing itself any favors with 
the lockout. Many players, 
including Ovechkin, have already signed contracts with 
teams in the KHL to play for 
the upcoming season. This 
exodus both strengthens the 
NHLs competition and eliminates the owners strongest 
bargaining chip.
The recent lockouts in the 
NBA and NFL met somewhat 
timely conclusions because 
players were pining for their 
pay checks and didnt have 
anywhere else to turn. Football is played at a high level 
only in the U.S. and, while 
basketball has expanded its 
global presence, the rest of 
the world pales in comparison to the NBA.
The NHL is on thin ice in 
terms of fan support. After 
the 200405 lockout, the 
league faced an uphill battle 
in trying to regain public support. While it has since rebuilt 
its fan base in the traditional 
hockey regions, the NHL has 
ALEX TAPAK
Sports Co-Editor
New to the Carnegie Mellon baseball team 
is ?rst-year pitcher Darren Kerfoot, hailing 
from San Dimas, Calif.
Ive been playing baseball for 14 years, 
since I was four years old, he said. He had 
hoped to continue to pursue his love for baseball during his college career.
Kerfoot has already jumped to the top of the 
Tartans rotaton. His fastball clocks in at over 
85 miles per hour, with his curveball 20 miles 
per hour slower than his fast ball. He also has 
a slider and a changeup in his arsenal. He is 
20 on the season, with 24 strikeouts and an 
earned run average (ERA) of 1.28.
Although Kerfoot is currently a math major, 
he plans to graduate with a mechanical engineering degree before pursuing a full-time 
career. Despite only just entering college, he 
is already planning to complete a masters degree at Stanford University and play on their 
baseball team.
But for now, Kerfoot is adjusting to the 
Carnegie Mellon baseball team well. I really 
enjoy baseball. The thing I enjoy most is that 
everyone is there to have a good time, and also 
that I get to actually play with really smart people. Its awesome, he said.
He added, I am really proud each time I 
step on the ?eld because its just a great atmosphere to play in.
Darren has been a great addition to the 
team, said senior second baseman Joe Barbish. He has been able to keep hitters off 
balance with his powerful fastball and hardbreaking, off-speed pitches.
Even though it is his ?rst season as a Tartan 
athlete, Kerfoot has made a checklist of goals 
he wants to complete before his time on the 
baseball team ends. For myself, Id like to get 
my ERA under 1.00 and hit at least .400. I also 
really hope to get CMU baseball to become an 
NCAA sport before I graduate, Kerfoot said.
However, for Kerfoot, representing Carnegie Mellon is the most important part of being 
on the baseball team. I think the most rewarding thing is being able to play a sport, get away 
from the academics for a little bit, have some 
fun with some great guys, and keep playing a 
sport I love while studying my ass off, he said.
SPORTS COMMENTARY
National Hockey League enters fourth lock out in history
ATHLETE PROFILEDarren Kerfoot the new ace on CMU pitching staff
SARA GUO
Junior Staffwriter
This past weekend, the 
Tartan volleyball team traveled to Huntingdon, Pa., to 
compete in the Juniata Tournament.
The teams ?rst match was 
against Salisbury University, 
where the Tartans suffered a 
30 (2520, 2520, 2518) 
loss. Junior outside hitter 
Senna Parsa picked up eight 
digs and eight kills in the 
match. Junior middle blocker 
Olivia Mora tallied four block 
assists. The Tartans displayed 
strong defense against Salisbury, with the team ?nishing 
the game with 33 digs overall.
Salisbury was a great 
team, and we played with 
them for most of the games, 
but just couldnt get the ball 
back during crucial points in 
the match, said junior libero 
Ali Nichols. For the next 
game, we really decided to 
focus on communication and 
playing as a team.
At the end the ?rst day 
of the weekend-long tournament, the Tartans played 
Franklin and Marshall College. The team gained a 30 
(2523, 2517, 2520) victory. Parsa had 15 kills, while 
Nichols ended the match 
with nine digs. Junior setter 
Emily Wright had 17 assists.
On the second day of 
the tournament, the team 
matched up against Fairleigh 
Dickinson University at Florham. The Tartans had a 30 
(258, 2520, 2516) victory. Parsa excelled in this 
match, picking up 10 kills, 10 
digs, and four service aces. 
Nichols also had a great performance with 15 digs.
The Tartans played Juniata College in the last match 
of the tournament. Although 
they lost 31 (2521, 2518, 
2513, 2725), the Tartans 
had a strong offensive match. 
Mora had 10 kills, Parsa and 
sophomore Alexandra Celentano each had eight kills, and 
?rst-year middle blocker Rebecca Wol?nger had six kills. 
Throughout the weekend, they played really well. 
The [Franklin and Marshall 
College] match was a really 
good win, head coach Kim 
Kelly said. They played together and our defense really 
came together.
In Tartan victories, the 
players put together solid 
performances both offensively and defensively.
The next volleyball game 
is at home, where the Tartans 
will host Waynesburg University this Wednesday at 7 p.m.
Volleyball goes 22 over weekend
See LOCKOUT, A11
Alan Vangpat/Senior Photographer
Darren Kerfoot struck out 12 and gave up just one earned run in the Tartans 214 win over C.C.A.C South.
Chloe Chia/Junior Artist

---------------------------------------------------

The Master premiere
Highly anticipated film does not 
disappoint  B4
09.24.12 Volume 107, Issue 5
The Brew Gentlemen
Alumni start craft brewery  B8

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
The Stick Cats saga continues this week, and 
PhD Comics looks at future job prospects.
11
Dollar Movie
AB Films presents three superhero movies this 
week in McConomy Auditorium.
7
The Tartan . Box 119 . UC Suite 103 . Carnegie Mellon University . 5000 Forbes Ave . Pittsburgh, PA 15213 . www.thetartan.org .  2012 The Tartan
PUBLISHER Christa Hester EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Emily Dobler
PILLBOX EDITOR Allison Cosby ASSISTANT PILLBOX EDITOR Rachel Cohen COMICS EDITOR Nicole Hamilton 
ART EDITOR Adelaide Cole PHOTO EDITOR Jonathan Carreon 
COPY MANAGER Evan Kahn COVER Alan Vangpat
8
3456 
regulars...
Advice
Everything you need to know about dealing 
with rejection and being lazy.
3
...diversions
...this week only
Comedy show
Cambridge Footlights entertains students with 
an energetic and diverse show.
3
PSO
Carnegie Mellon Night at the Pittsburgh 
Symphony Orchestra draws a high turnout.
4
The Frame
A Year of Wondering explores the artists 
emotional state following the death of a friend.
5
The Master
The newly released film dazzles audiences with 
a stunning and deeply personal epic.
6
TV dramas
Many beloved TV dramas will return to the 
screen this week.
7
Brew Gentlemen
Two alumni pursue their passions for 
brotherhood, business, and beer.
8
Art screening
Strange Attractors inspires viewers with 
lessons in empathy and tolerance.
10
Did You Know?
Did you know that the FBI investigated terrorist 
threats outside Hunt Library 10 years ago?
10
Puzzles
Sudoku, kakuro, and a crossword, oh my!13
Horoscopes
The stars take your astrological sign literally 
this week.
14
Calendar
Check out this weeks calendar for events 
happening on and off campus.
15

---------------------------------------------------

theater
pillbox 09.24.123
Sketch comedy group visits CMU
The Cambridge Footlights put on hilarious, successful show
The Cambridge Footlights, a sketch comedy group 
from Cambridge University in England, performed its 
show Perfect Strangers in McConomy Auditorium 
last Friday. The Footlights, founded in 1883, is known 
for having launched the careers of some well-known 
names in comedy, including John Cleese, Hugh 
Laurie, Stephen Fry, and Sacha Baron Cohen.
Perfect Strangers, sponsored and hosted by 
ScotchnSoda, featured five members of the troupe 
 Emma Powell, Pierre Novellie, George Pots, Phil 
Wang, and Jason Forbes  performing in a series 
of increasingly interrelated skits. And there was 
nothing dry in this flavor of British humor; skits dealt 
with subjects ranging from the personal lives of Ken 
and Barbie to a film adaptation of the board game 
Monopoly.
Perfect Strangers had a broad theme of being 
interconnected. Between quick transitory fadeouts 
to a darkened stage, recurring characters and plots 
would emerge in new skits, slowly completing a 
series of absurd, interwoven comical narratives. A 
wide range of comedic styles was represented in 
these acts, including physical comedy, dark humor, 
and parody.
The performers had spot-on delivery and put on an 
energetic and consistently hilarious act. The most 
memorable skits involved characters who made 
appearances in multiple skits, and skits that were 
more absurd. One skit, for example, involved a man 
who stumbled into Utopia, a seemingly perfect world 
that hid a dark secret.
Another notable skit included an alien hunter 
who used a stick to hit mens nether regions in an 
attempt to find the extraterrestrials that killed his 
wife.
Many skits included the use of the time phone, a 
magical phone that could call people from the past 
and future. Carolyn Supinka, a senior Bachelors of 
Humanities and Arts student, said, [My friends and 
I] loved the telephone skit. Weve seen the show 
since we were freshmen, so we knew it was going to 
be good.
Reactions from the crowd seemed exceedingly 
positive. Throughout the show, audience members 
were howling with laughter and cheers. Nadia 
Sheen, a senior in biology, said, It was great. It was 
witty, it was clever, and it was fun to watch.
Overall, the show was a resounding success. It is 
easy to see the incredible amount of comedic talent 
that resides within the Footlights.
Xiyu Wang | Junior Staffwriter
Alex Webster | Staff Photographer
Advice for awkward people
Dear Patrick,
I had a couple of 
interviews with this 
company. I thought we 
were really hitting it off, 
but then they stopped 
returning my calls. Did 
I do something wrong? 
Ive sent the company 
a couple of emails, but 
no response. Am I doing 
something wrong?
Thanks,
Jilted Obnoxiously By 
Some Teasing Recruiter 
Using Career Knowledge
Dear JOBSTRUCK,
Hey man, youre just going 
to have to face it: The 
company turned you down. 
I know, I know; things may 
have seemed to be going 
well, but there was trouble 
in paradise. The company 
just couldnt keep its eyes 
from wandering. You may 
feel betrayed, but thats just 
how the game is played. You 
guys never DTRed (Defined 
The Relationship); thats 
the key step. Dont expect 
anything til you sign that 
contract.
Now you just need to get 
back on that horse. Sure, it 
would have been better if the 
company had called you and 
let you know that you two 
were over, but its just easier 
if they stop returning your 
calls. Now its time for you to 
play the field and send out 
some rsums. Theres a 
company out there for you; 
just keep looking. Find some 
place with good chemistry 
and nice health benefits.
But at the end of the 
night, dont be afraid to 
settle,
Patrick Hoskins
Dear Patrick,
Ive spent the last day 
in bed. I cant think of a 
good reason to get up. I 
dont have class today, I 
have my laptop with me, 
and theres some food 
within reach. Give me a 
reason to not be such a 
lazy slob.
Thanks,
Comfortable, Overstuffed 
Mattress Attracts Today, 
Only Sleeping Eternally
Dear COMATOSE,
Im confused; why would 
you want to get out of bed? 
I mean, that sounds pretty 
good to me. The only thing 
you really need to worry 
about is bed sores. But 
as long as youre not in 
there for a week straight, I 
think youll be fine. The one 
argument I can give you 
is that you should go and 
experience the outdoors. 
For the next month or so, 
Pittsburgh will have the best 
weather itll have had all 
year. Itll be cool enough that 
you wont break into a sweat 
when you step outside, but 
warm enough that you wont 
need five layers of sweaters.
Pittsburgh in the fall is 
beautiful. I know the 
outdoors can be scary, but 
its worth it. In another two 
months, itll be too cold and 
snowy to go out and do 
anything. Thats when you 
stay in bed all day with some 
hot chocolate.
Or just say youre 
practicing corpse pose,
Patrick Hoskins
Need advice? Send queries 
to advice@thetartan.org.
About rejection and getting out of bed
The Cambridge Footlights performance was well-received by the audience.

---------------------------------------------------

4film
pillbox 09.24.12
The last we saw Paul Thomas Anderson, writer and 
director of The Master, it was in Daniel Plainviews 
bowling alley. Its been ?ve years since There Will Be 
Blood, and not much has changed. He still writes stories 
about surrogate families, incest, and the American West. 
But The Master shows us a new era of cinema on its own 
terms.
Whatever you think this ?lm might be, youre wrong. If 
youre expecting a Scientology expos, youre wrong. 
If youre expecting a climactic payoff, youre wrong. If 
youre expecting perfection, youre wrong. But if you 
surrender and follow The Master, it will show you how 
to see it. It is cinematic panache of the highest order: 
a dazzling, searing, potent, personal American epic. 
Only time will tell, but I predict that 20 years from now, 
everyone will bow to The Master.
The story follows Freddie Quell (Joaquin Phoenix), a 
Navy veteran of World War II, as he struggles to ?nd 
stability after the war. His greatest talent is creating 
potent beverages out of paint thinners, Lysol, and 
photographic chemicals and using them to seduce 
women. He eventually stows away on a mysterious 
yacht commanded by Lancaster Dodd (Philip Seymour 
Hoffman), the leader of a group of pseudo-scienti?c 
mystics called The Cause. While this is based on the 
career of L. Ron Hubbard, creator of Scientology, that 
will be the last thing on your mind when the ?lm is over. 
Quell becomes Dodds most obedient apostle and soldier, 
and the two develop a chillingly intimate bond that is 
both deeply human and deeply animal.
Human versus animal is the easiest way to summarize 
this expansive, de?ant story. The Cause suggests that 
humans are not members of the animal kingdom, yet 
Quell is prone to vicious ?ts of rage, sexual aggression, 
and fart jokes. It builds the Freudian con?ict of id versus 
ego into a spectacularly repressed, homoerotic love story
This setting is assisted by composer Jonny Greenwoods 
twitchy, celestial score. The moaning, galactic strings 
of his work for There Will Be Blood have transformed 
into humming winds that, like the ?lm, have no desire 
to reach a conclusion. There will be many attempts to 
explain The Master, but it is best understood as a love 
song  a story about the basic need to be cared for, to 
be mastered.
Shot in the archaic format of 70mm ?lm  twice the 
width of a typical strip, usually reserved for sprawling 
war epics  The Master is a cinephiles dream come 
true. The ridges and angles of Phoenixs face are set 
in direct contrast to Hoffmans plump, round shape. 
Their countenance ?lls the screen to every edge. In one 
scene destined for immortality, Dodd submits Quell to 
informal processing, a strange procedure drawn from 
Scientologys therapeutic philosophies.
The camera lingers on Phoenix for minutes at a time 
as he releases one crushing catharsis after another. His 
performance is like watching a voodoo priest boil every 
ache and pain that youve ever felt into a cup of tea. He 
spends most of the movie ready to explode with desire 
and urge.Hoffman, too, channels Orson Welles in a gripping, 
charismatic portrait of a man trying his best to lead. 
Amy Adams, who plays Dodds wife Peggy, hardly ever 
leaves the screen. While shes usually tucked away in an 
out-of-focus corner, she is always hovering over the men, 
mastering them.
Andersons script is far from a religious commentary. 
Instead, it shows incredible pathos for the ability to have 
faith, ultimately reasoning that religion is something 
none of us can escape. We all live with a master, whether 
it is another human being or our basic weaknesses. If 
there is a villain in The Master, its loneliness.
Anderson understands that our feeble minds can only 
go so far and discover so much. Having faith in our 
smallness is a virtue.
Matthew Zurcher | Staffwriter
Courtesy of Wikimedia Commons
The Master, which was written and directed by Paul 
Thomas Anderson, had an estimated budget of $40 
million.
The Master shows Andersons cinematic panache
Joaquin Phoenix, Philip Seymour Hoffman put on impressive performances in latest ?lm
Courtesy of beyondhollywood.com
The Master stars Joaquin Phoenix as Freddie Quell, 
a World War II Navy veteran trying to rebuild his life 
after the war.

---------------------------------------------------

art
pillbox 09.24.125
Lively Frame exhibit deals with death
Senior Jessica Aguero tackles tough issues with bold, colorful work
With a spark and a bang, senior art major Jessica 
Agueros A Year of Wondering opened on Friday at The 
Frame, a student-run gallery space. The exhibit explores 
the emotions Aguero faced after the death of a friend. 
Rather than tip-toeing around the sensitive topics 
explored in the exhibit, however, Agueros work stomps 
right through, powerfully and playfully dealing with the 
onslaught of emotions that accompanies the death of a 
loved one.
The exhibit is a response to the death of a very close 
friend ... you just have all of these questions and no 
answers. You just have to embrace that there are things 
that youll never understand, Aguero said.
Packing a colorful punch, the exhibit surprisingly evokes 
a sense of liveliness rather than somberness. Balloons 
float across the room, party confetti is artfully clumped 
on the floor, and theres enough candy to overwhelm 
Willy Wonka.
Were so excited about her use of materials, and she 
has a great sense of color, said Jamie Walters, junior 
art major and co-director of The Frame. Its exciting, 
unusual, and elaborate. I thought it would be a good 
exhibition to start the year off like that and draw people 
in with something exciting.
Theres an incredible amount of whimsical yet profound 
energy packed into the relatively small gallery space. 
The collection of works is so eclectic and emotional, its 
impossible not to be drawn in and captivated, first by 
the dazzling array of colors and then by the depth of the 
expression.
The bubbly vibe that the colors and childish wonders 
give off is tempered by subtle reminders of what the 
exhibition is really examining: thoughts and questions 
about life after death.
She uses interesting and unusual materials and less 
traditional processes, Walters said.
Highlights of the exhibition include razors that have 
been contorted and fused together into a spherical 
shape, a giant foam tear drop covered in sprinkles, a 
wall mural that invites viewers to contribute with a pile 
of Crayola markers, and a stop-motion video of a girl 
jumping and flipping backwards.
The video was 40 frames made out of candy and 
frosting. Each frame took a half an hour, and the video is 
only two seconds long, Aguero said, laughing. It just 
represents a brief, happy moment.
The most striking piece by far is a heart-wrenching 
journal that Aguero kept in the months following her 
friends death. The drawings and letters in the journal 
are deeply personal and bittersweet, truly allowing 
viewers to get a glimpse into the personal struggle that 
she went through.
The exhibit is honest and pure, and the personal touches 
complete the vision. For example, cupcakes were 
provided at Fridays opening simply because they were 
[her friends] favorite food, Aguero said.
Attention to detail, personal touches, and the interesting 
juxtaposition of a somber theme with bold colors and 
pieces makes this exhibition a thought-provoking and 
joyful success.
Laura Scherb | Junior Staffwriter
The Frame is located at the intersection of Forbes 
Avenue and Margaret Morrison Street.
Alex Webster | Staff Photographer
Senior art major Jessica Agueros exhibit A Year of Wondering features a variety of materials and bright colors in a 
playful exhibit that explores a dark time in her life, when she was dealing with the loss of a close friend.
Alex Webster | Staff Photographer
Senior art major Jessica Aguero stands next to one of 
her pieces at her Frame gallery opening last Friday.

---------------------------------------------------

6music
pillbox 09.24.12
The line to pick up will-call tickets at the venue was out 
the door and around the corner, and the line of people 
hoping to buy last-minute tickets was even longer  
even with 10 minutes left before the concert was going 
to start.
When the show began, people were still rushing to their 
seats as the audience members stood and sang along to 
the music. This may sound typical for a rock concert, but 
it was somewhat unexpected for this musical group: It 
was the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra (PSO) at Heinz 
Hall last Saturday.
The high attendance was in part thanks to the Carnegie 
Mellon University Night that the orchestra was hosting: 
Students, faculty, and staff received discounts on tickets.
The concert began with The Star-Spangled Banner, 
and once everyone was settled back into their seats, 
William Caballero, the PSOs principal horn and an 
associate teaching professor in the School of Music, 
strode onto the stage with the conductor, PSO music 
director Manfred Honeck.
This is Caballeros 24th year as principal horn in the 
PSO, and his experience was apparent in his rendition of 
Richard Strauss Concerto No. 1 in E-?at major for Horn 
and Orchestra. The French horn is usually known for its 
bold, brassy sound, but Caballero showed off the horns 
sweet, expressive side. At some points in the concerto, 
the horn almost sounded like the woodwind instruments 
that accompanied it.
His performance also highlighted his technical ability. 
Near the end of the concerto, Caballero picked up the 
tempo, his ?ngers ?ying over the instruments valves as 
he expertly made his way through a quick sequence of 
notes, ?nishing to a standing ovation.
Caballero wasnt the only featured soloist of the evening, 
however. After a short break, Thomas Hampson  an 
American lyric baritone  took the stage to perform four 
of Strauss songs for baritone and orchestra.
Hampson is in high demand as an opera singer, and 
his performance showed why: He had engaging 
stage presence, with animated movements and facial 
expressions that made the emotions in the songs easy to 
understand, even though all the lyrics were in German.
While all of his songs were excellent, the highlight by 
far was Nchtlicher Gang, a dramatic song about 
a lover looking for his beloved beyond the grave. The 
lyrics, taken from a poem of the same name by Friedrich 
Rckert, begin, The ?ags ?ap / In the midnight storm, / 
The slates rattle / On the church tower.
The PSO made for a dramatic accompaniment to 
Hampsons singing. The orchestra built up to a 
thunderous climax, then abruptly stopped, keeping the 
audience members at the edge of their seats before 
gently easing into the conclusion. The performance 
made such an impact that many in the audience were 
excitedly murmuring after the piece ?nished, even 
though Hampson still had one more song to perform.
After intermission, the orchestra took the spotlight 
with its rendition of Antonn Dvorks Symphony No. 
9 in E minor, more famously known as his New World 
Symphony. The symphony has been recorded hundreds 
of times and performed by everyone from world-class 
philharmonics to youth orchestras, to the point that, as 
an NPR article about the symphony warned, it runs the 
risk of sounding hackneyed.
Luckily, Dvorks symphony is lush and emotionally 
varied enough to overcome any worries of it becoming 
stale, and the PSOs rendition brought out the best in the 
composition. The orchestra, under Honecks direction, 
teased out all the different colors and tones in each 
movement, resulting in a warm, moving performance 
that earned thunderous applause.
As part of Carnegie Mellon University Night, members 
of the university were invited to a reception after the 
concert in the basement of Heinz Hall. A crowd of 
students, faculty, and staff members gathered to eat cake 
and talk about the performance. Once most of the people 
in the crowd had started to dig into their desserts, a 
stream of Carnegie Mellon and PSO af?liates took to the 
microphone to thank everyone for coming.
The chairman of the PSO Board of Trustees, Dick 
Simmons, particularly expressed his delight at the 
presence of so many students. We always love to see 
the average age [of audience members] go down, he 
joked. Honeck agreed, and added that having a younger 
crowd adds more energy to the hall. We feel when 
you are in the audience, he said. Given the incredible 
concert that the PSO put on, it wouldnt be surprising if 
more Carnegie Mellon students become a regular part of 
the audience for future performances.
Anna Walsh | Personnel Manager
PSO pulls out all the stops for Carnegie Mellon
Principal horn William Caballero and baritone Thomas Hampson impress packed house
?
?

---------------------------------------------------

television
pillbox 09.24.127
Last week saw the return of many beloved TV dramas, 
such as Bones, and comedies like Parks and Recreation 
and The Of?ce. This week continues the plethora of 
season premieres with the return of favorites such as 
Castle, How I Met Your Mother, Greys Anatomy, and 
The Big Bang Theory.
Castle
Castles fourth season ?nale was a crowd-pleaser, with 
the romantic relationship between main characters 
NYPD detective Kate Beckett (Stana Katic) and mystery 
novelist Richard Castle (Nathan Fillion) ?nally setting 
off. The mystery of the murder of Becketts mother, 
however, remains unsolved. This season promises to be 
action-packed, as Castle and Beckett try to keep their 
relationship a secret while continually investigating 
the Cole Maddox case, which is carried over from last 
season. Look out for the new season, which premieres 
tonight at 10 p.m. on ABC.
How I Met Your Mother
Today also marks the start of the comedy How I Met Your 
Mother on CBS. In a ?urry of ?ashbacks and glimpses 
into the future, the upcoming premiere will address 
some unresolved questions from the previous season. 
The seventh season ?nale ended with Barney Stinson 
(Neil Patrick Harris) at his wedding to Quinn Garvey 
(guest-star Becki Newton); Marshall Eriksen (Jason 
Segel) and Lily Aldrin (Alison Hannigan) having their 
baby; and Ted Mosby (Josh Radnor) running off with his 
ex-girlfriend Victoria (guest-star Ashley Williams).
The series has won seven Emmy awards since it began 
in 2009, and has been nominated for many more. With 
rumors ?oating that this season is probably the last and 
with its previous season receiving the highest ratings of 
all, viewers anxiously wait to see how the Barney-Quinn 
wedding turns out and how Ted ?nally meets his future 
wife. Dont miss the beginning of this promising season 
at 8 p.m.
Greys Anatomy
Everyones favorite medical drama Greys Anatomy 
begins its ninth season Thursday. Last season ended 
with a severe shock: A plane crash left many members 
of the cast stranded in a forest, and Lexie Little Grey 
(Chyler Leigh) met her end, which effectively boosted 
ratings for the show. Loyal viewers cant wait to see how 
the others end up back in Seattle Grace Mercy West 
Hospital. As of last season, the series is the top-rated 
drama on television among its target demographic of 
ages 1849. Although this season sees the unfortunate 
departure of Mark McSteamy Sloan (Eric Dane), it 
promises to bring even more drama for the rest of team. 
Greys Anatomy will premiere at 9 p.m. on ABC.
The Big Bang Theory
The previous season of the popular sitcom The Big Bang 
Theory ended with Sheldon Cooper (Jim Parsons) ?nally 
making a romantic move on Amy Farrah Fowler (Mayim 
Bialik), as the group watched friend and aerospace 
engineer Howard Wolowitz (Simon Helberg) shoot off 
into space. Fans will be happy to see more of Sheldons 
sweet side this season. The romance continues as 
Leonard Hofstadter (Johnny Galecki) and Penny (Kaley 
Cuoco) start the season off continuing their relationship 
after Hofstadters awkward marriage proposal last 
season. The comedy comes back this Thursday at 8 p.m. 
on CBS.
Manali Banerjee | Junior Staffwriter
Sawsan Boutemine | Junior Staffwriter
Students prepare for network drama premieres
Favorite medical dramas, comedies, and sitcoms return this week
Matthew Zurcher | Staffwriter
Chronicle
Saturday, Sept. 29
8 10 12
Using the found footage aesthetic made popular by 
movies like The Blair Witch Project and Clover?eld, 
Chronicle tells the story of a few high school students 
who develop telekinetic powers. The movie pulls from a 
variety of genres and styles, congealing into a superhero, 
sci-?, pseudo-docudrama. Chronicle works to satisfy 
fans from many different backgrounds and tastes  and 
it mostly succeeds. The ?lm is Josh Tranks directing 
debut and features new acting talent in Dane DeHaan 
and Alex Russel.
The Amazing Spider-Man
Friday, Sept. 28
8 10 12
Its only been a few years since the conclusion of 
director and producer Sam Raimis take on the 
Spiderman franchise, but why would that stop 
Hollywood from rebooting a guaranteed cash cow? 
The Amazing Spider-Man, led by director Marc Webb 
and starring Andrew Gar?eld (The Social Network) 
and Emma Stone (Easy A), turned out to be one 
of the biggest hits of the summer. Gar?eld gives a 
solid performance and, as usual, Stone is incredibly 
charming. Coming from a Hollywood of remakes and 
headaches, the movie mostly avoids redundancy and 
has some moments of inventive variation on the tiring 
superhero template.
Super
Sunday, Sept. 30
6 8 10
Super, starring Rainn Wilson and Ellen Page, plays on 
the recent popularity of powerless superheroes. The 
?lm carries some acute observations on the nature of 
loneliness and the psychosis that it can inspire. Wilson 
plays a man-child who has lived a dull life until his drugaddicted wife leaves him for a strip club owner. He is 
then divinely inspired to pursue superheroism and teams 
up with Page to ?ght petty crime throughout the city, 
becoming a media sensation. Like Kick-Ass, a movie 
made concurrently, Super uses extreme violence and 
melodrama to draw a portrait of the geek psyche.
dollarmovie
McConomy Auditorium, University Center

---------------------------------------------------

community
pillbox 09.24.1298community
pillbox 09.24.12
Ideas, like good beer, take time to perfect. Key 
components to both are the right ingredients, 
environment, and timing.
So what do you get when you combine two fraternity 
brothers with a passion for craft beer, Carnegie Mellons 
entrepreneurship program, and a city full of beer lovers? 
The Brew Gentlemen.
Created in 2010, The Brew Gentlemen is a Braddockbased craft brewery that began as the brainchild of 
Carnegie Mellon 2012 alumni Asa Foster and Matt 
Katase. Foster and Katase are The Brew Gentlemen.
We both lived in Morewood freshman year, Foster 
said. And then we both joined [Sigma Alpha Epsilon]. 
The bonds of brotherhood, as well as a feeling of 
disenchantment with their majors, brought the two 
together. Foster was an art student, while Katase was 
studying operations research.
We were both interested in craft beer and we often 
joked around with the idea that we would create a 
brewery someday, Foster said. Then, the Thanksgiving 
of our junior year, Matt came to Boston for the break and 
we were sitting on the couch just watching football and 
decided to just drop everything in life and do it.
With the craft brewery scene quickly gaining popularity, 
the pair petitioned and received permission to change 
their areas of study to a student-de?ned major. Our 
majors were in the way of what we really wanted to 
pursue, Katase said. In their new majors, Foster and 
Katase were allowed to take the entrepreneurship and 
marketing classes they needed to make The Brew 
Gentlemen a reality.
We got a lot of help from entrepreneurship professors, 
Katase said. [Barbara] Carryer and [Robert] Culbertson, 
in particular, really helped us form the backbone of our 
company. They told us our business plan was sh*t, that 
this has to be more than just a dream, and they really got 
us to think about the speci?cs. And theyre still helping 
us to this day  which is awesome.
Carryer, an adjunct professor of entrepreneurship in 
the Tepper School of Business, continues to coach and 
encourage the pair to focus on the business end of the 
endeavor. I really pushed them to go out and talk to 
distributors, to restaurants and bars to see who would 
carry the beer, to make them ?gure out how a new beer 
gets to market, Carryer said.
Culbertson  an adjunct professor of entrepreneurship 
and CEO of GetABBY, a consumer communication 
platform  also lent some hard-hitting advice to the 
young businessmen. I got pissed off at them in one 
class, Culbertson said. To the point of saying, Would 
you just get off the pot already and do it? I told them 
they were making some stupid decisions, and oftentimes 
I kind of embarrassed them in front of the class. But 
that really made them get off the pot and start doing 
something.
[Robert] is a tough-love kind of guy, Katase said. But 
we got past that. As part of an apprentice project 
Culbertson conducts in one of his classes, Foster 
and Katase started throwing dinner and beer-tasting 
parties for friends, peers, and individuals involved in 
Pittsburghs craft beer scene.
For our ?rst event, Foster said, we put on a four-course 
beer dinner cooked entirely by us and featured our White 
Sky alongside three other beers.
Were both foodies; we love cooking and mixing ideas 
and ingredients, Foster said. So making nontraditional 
beers like our White Sky is what we want to be doing. 
The White Sky is The Brew Gentlemens ?agship beer, 
and it has received positive feedback in the brew 
community. Its a wheat beer brewed with chai spices 
Alumni become The Brew Gentlemen
Students use self-de?ned education to open craft brewery in Braddock, Pa.
Matt Katase explains the fermentation process of beer, noting that all three of these jugs are in different stages 
of the brewing process.
by Christa Hester | Publisher[]
like cinnamon, cardamom, ginger, cloves, and black 
pepper.
The beers spicy taste, combined with the lightness of 
the wheat, makes it a year-round seasonal, as The 
Brew Gentlemen call it. White Sky is a good winter beer 
because of its warmth and spiciness, but it also works as 
a summer beer because of its light and refreshing taste.
I actually hired them to provide the beer for a party that 
I gave in the middle of August, Carryer said. It was 
really great beer, and all my friends  about 50 people  
really liked the beer, too. Super enthusiastic response.
The duo has also created a beer called Business Casual, 
a caramel-colored session red ale, and revived General 
Braddocks IPA, a bittersweet East Coast India pale ale.
Part of our agreement with [Barbara] is that we have to 
come in and talk to her students once were successful, 
Katase said. ... and bring beer.
Carryer wasnt alone in her praise of The Brew 
Gentlemens products. Its good beer, Culbertson said. 
If they had it in a restaurant, I would absolutely order it. 
I think they could sell their stuff tomorrow.
Culbertson advised the duo to take advantage of the 
growing interest in craft beer and to get their product on 
the market as soon as possible. Right now the window 
for craft beers is huge, Culbertson said. Everybody 
wants a craft beer and they dont care so much if they 
have to pay six bucks a bottle for it, and I dont want 
them to miss that window.
The Brew Gentlemen already have some prospective 
restaurants and bars wanting to buy their beer, but 
the pair is waiting to perfect and test its recipes before 
of?cially opening for business.
I think theres another hurdle to get over, which is how 
they will handle demand, Culbertson said. We are all 
fearful of failure  theres no question about that  but 
were also fearful of success.
Every entrepreneur wonders, Gee, what happens if 
I suddenly get orders for 1,000 kegs, what do I do?  
Culbertson said. The new entrepreneur always reacts, 
Oh my god, Im done, Im doomed. I sit here and say, 
Hey, time to throw a party! Wow, people want 1,000 
kegs of your beer? Holy crap! Thats a great problem! 
But when youre living it, all you can see is the logistics: 
How are we gonna deliver it, how are we gonna brew 
that much by that time, et cetera. It goes back to the 
dating analogy, She invited me to the prom. Oh my god. 
Oh my god, Ive gotta rent a tux. 
Although The Brew Gentlemen undoubtedly have some 
hurdles in their future, things are looking good from their 
Braddock facility. Braddock is the perfect backdrop for 
a brewery, Foster said. Its quiet and were right in the 
backyard of the steel mill.
Their establishment, which is about 3,000 square feet 
and currently houses their production facility and pilot 
brewing system, is owned by the Heritage Community 
Initiatives. The mayor [of Braddock] and the Heritage 
Community Initiatives  a nonpro?t thats trying to 
revitalize Braddock  really helped us ?nd our space, 
Katase said.
Foster and Katase are surprised by the amount 
of support they have received from the Braddock 
and brewing communities. The cooperation and 
willingness of other breweries to lend a hand has been 
overwhelming, Katase said. From just giving us 
feedback on our beer to letting us borrow equipment to 
just teaching us anything and everything we want to 
learn.
Everyone is extremely willing to pour you a beer, 
Katase added. Because, really, the competitors are the 
big three: Bud, Miller, and Coors. The craft guys are 
all in this together, and they wanna see each other do 
well because, what is that saying, Rising tides ?oat all 
boats? 
Since their ?rst dinner party in April, The Brew 
Gentlemen have been invited to and have attended a 
number of other beer dinners and tastings, the biggest 
of which will be held on Oct. 6 in Braddock. The event, 
Tapped: Braddock, will feature a pop-up beer garden 
provided by The Brew Gentlemen, cocktails from Bar 
Marco, local food trucks, and live local music.
Well be pouring the White Sky and the General 
Braddocks, Foster said. And therell be a pig roast by 
Kevin Sousa [owner of Salt of the Earth], whos opening a 
restaurant above our brewery. Hes a resident badass, so 
thats gonna be awesome.
The Brew Gentlemen plan to open their facility to the 
public early next year, where they will have beers on tap.
More information on The Brew Gentlemen can be found 
on their website (brewgentlemen.com) and on their 
Facebook page (facebook.com/brewgentlemen).Alan Vangpat | Senior Photographer
The Brew Gentlemen are busy fixing up their space in Braddock, Pa., which they hope to open to the public by 
next year.
Brewing is a time- and energy-consuming process. It 
takes about nine hours to make a double brew.
Alan Vangpat | Senior Photographer
Alan Vangpat | Senior Photographer
Matt Katase (left) and Asa Foster (right) take a break 
from brewing.
Alan Vangpat | Senior Photographer

---------------------------------------------------

10community
pillbox 09.24.12
A screening and release party of the DVD and 
book Strange Attractors: Investigations in 
Non-Humanoid Extraterrestrial Sexualities  a 
project dedicated to exploring extraterrestrial 
sexual desires  took place on Friday night at 
the Pittsburgh Filmmakers Melwood Screening 
Room.
Seventy different artists collaborated on the 
project, all of them contributing through various 
mediums, including visual art, creative writing, 
and video. Those involved in the project made 
an effort to do away with conventional sexual 
boundaries, moving far beyond binary thinking 
and attempting to conceptualize all the dirty 
details of extraterrestrial pleasure.
Suzie Silver, an associate professor of art at 
Carnegie Mellon who spearheaded this project, 
claims that Strange Attractors has a huge 
CMU presence. She estimates that nearly half 
of the project is made up of Carnegie Mellon 
af?liates, and that about two-thirds of the video 
contributors were her students at one point.
In 2009, Silver founded the Institute of 
Extraterrestrial Sexuality, inspired by 
a combination of her love of sci-?, her 
longstanding interest in gender expression and 
sexuality, and the launching of the Kepler Space 
Telescope in March of that year. Her efforts, 
united with those of Encyclopedia Destructica 
 a community-based artist book publisher that 
started as a student project at Carnegie Mellon 
 and those of the eclectic group of artistic 
contributors, all acted together to provide this 
unique insight into sexual imagination.
At the screening last Friday, the audience 
congregated in the lobby before the show. 
Waiters in outrageous alien costumes that 
blinked and sparkled carried trays of strangely 
phosphorescent jello shots. Audience members 
sported striking styles: half-shaven heads, bold 
facial piercings, ample facial hair, black leather 
pants, and sophisticated silk vests.
Project explores alien sexuality
Eccentric DVD, book preach empathy, tolerance
Catherine Spence | Staffwriter
Did you know?
100years ago
Oct. 17, 1912
A flood in the Science Building is 
compared to a miniature Niagara 
Falls in terms of size and capability 
for destruction. The flood, caused by 
a busted radiator, manages to affect 
three floors of the building, and leaves 
multiple faculty members stranded on 
chairs and tables on the upper floors of 
the building.
50years ago
Oct. 10, 1962
A satirical narrative about a group of 
girls searching for pastries, sweets, 
and coffee subtly investigates the 
lighting situation in the Morewood 
Gardens basement. The story follows 
the girls as they run into walls, vending 
machines, and one another in the 
midst of their search for late-night 
sustenance.
25years ago
Sept. 22, 1987
Carnegie Mellon football manages 
to receive a mention in USA Today, 
thanks to its victory over Case Western 
Reserve in the Academic Bowl. In true 
Tartan fashion, the first 300 students 
to arrive at the game are given free 
computer software, but campus 
attendance to the game is still low.
10years ago
Sept. 23, 2002
The university earns big-time exposure 
for terrorist threats found outside 
Hunt Library. Written in chalk on the 
sidewalk, the threats include messages 
like DEATH TO AMERICA and 
SHUTDOWN DC, BOMB CONGRESS, 
KILL THE PRESIDENT. The FBI 
investigates and the Secret Service is 
informed of the incident.
5years ago
Sept. 24, 2007
Professor of computer science Randy 
Pausch delivers his speech Really 
Achieving Your Childhood Dreams, 
famous for lines like, We cant change 
the cards we are dealt, just how we 
play the hand. This quote should be 
familiar to anyone who read The Last 
Lecture before arriving at first-year 
Orientation week.
1year ago
Sept. 26, 2011
Carnegie Mellon pairs up with Disney 
to conduct research for CGI-animated 
films regarding eye blinks. The research 
includes asking subjects to rate which 
eye blinks they find most natural and 
working on different algorithms to 
improve how realistic animators are 
able to make their characters.
The screening itself was composed of selected videos 
from the DVD, as well as readings from the book. Silver, 
sporting what looked like an alien space helmet, read 
passages from her work. As the screening continued, 
the audience was shocked, confused, and intrigued. 
But throughout it all, there was a deeper underlying 
message. Imagine and empathize with others who are 
really, really different from you, Silver explained. If you 
can do that, then maybe you can empathize and tolerate 
people that might be just a little bit different from you.
The success of this project should be encouraging to 
any student at Carnegie Mellon who desires to embark 
on a journey that may be a little out-of-the-box. No idea 
is too weird, said Scott Andrew, a Carnegie Mellon art 
graduate student and video contributor to the project, 
on the amount of resources available to students. The 
group behind Strange Attractors was able to raise about 
$24,000 for the project from various sources, such as the 
Heinz Foundation and Kickstarter. 
The creativity of these artists and their determination 
to see their project through to the end, no matter how 
odd or eccentric it may appear, is truly inspirational. As 
Silver put it: Are we just gonna let whatever happens 
happen? Or are we going to try to imagine, and actively 
participate in, creating a world of our dreams?
Kaytie Nielsen | Junior Staffwriter 

---------------------------------------------------

comics
pillbox 09.24.1211
PhD Comics by Jorge Cham
dohgousediaries@gmail.com
Perspective by Doghouse Diaries
jorge@phdcomics.com

---------------------------------------------------

12comics
pillbox 09.24.12
Stick Cats #4 by Nick Marinonickmarino@gmail.com
Online at www.nickmarino.net

---------------------------------------------------

comics
pillbox 09.24.1213
Solutions from Sept. 17, 2012
CrosswordMedium DifficultyHard Difficulty
Kakuro Puzzle: Hard Difficulty Sudoku Puzzle: Easy Difficulty
Sudoku courtesy of www.opensky.ca/~jdhildeb/software/
sudokugen/
Kakuro courtesy of www.knobelfieber.com
Fill all empty squares using numbers 1 to 9 so the sum of each 
row equals the clue on its left, and the sum of each column 
equals the clue on its top. No number may be used in the 
same row or column more than once.

---------------------------------------------------

14horoscopes
pillbox 09.24.12
 1. Cancers critter
 2. Rights organization
 3. Duo
 4. Respect
 5. The act of issuing
 6. Baseballs Mel
 7. Also
 8. Marshal
 9. Refine
10. Assistant, particularly to heads of state
11. Celestial body
12. Even ___ speak...
13. Fishing hole
21. Mimic
23. Principle
25. Yellow and black insect
26. Punctuation mark
27. Smells
28. Virile
29. ___-de-sac
31. Keats work
32. Perfect Sleeper maker
33. That is to say...
34. Radioactive gas
39. Fancy that!
40. Back in
41. Fair-hiring abbr.
42. Person who lives near another
44. Snake eyes
48. Mark of Zorro
49. To a greater extent
51. City on the Ruhr
52. Bead material
54. Spahn teammate
55. Forearm bone
56. Adriatic seaport
57. Spool
59. Immerses
60. Part of Q.E.D
61. Actor Auberjonois
64. Uncooked
65. Salt Lake City athlete
 1. Cod, Good Hope, or  
     Canaveral, e.g.
 5. Little bits
10. Quickly, quickly
14. Some DVD players
15. Tempest
16. Wishing wont make ___
17. Came down to earth
18. Mall unit
19. Daybreak
20. Chest of drawers
22. Changed
24. Ecol. watchdog
25. Unit of computer memory
26. Start
30. Polite refusal
35. Room within a harem
36. Pool tool
37. Accumulation of fluids
38. Dog of mixed breed
41. Went in
43. 1957 hit for the Bobbettes
44. Digit of the foot
45. Chinese way
46. So far
47. First president of Israel
50. All The Way To ___, song by 
REM
53. Prizm maker
54. Secretly
58. Guy who tends goats
62. Winglike parts
63. Rub vigorously
66. Green land
67. As to
68. Muse of love poetry
69. Bridge
70. Metal fastener
71. More recent
72. Bone: Prefix
ACROSSDOWN
Horoscopes
aries
march 21april 19
Youll chill out this week once you realize the Ares you were 
thinking of doesnt have an i. Youll settle for rooting for 
St. Louis, even though being worshiped in Sparta wouldve 
been nice.
taurus
april 20may 20
Living up to your name, youll be doing a lot of bullsh*tting 
this week.
gemini
may 21june 21
That Parent Trap-type scheme you and your sibling were 
preparing has already been anticipated. Its best to move on 
to Plan B and disguise yourselves as Schwarzenegger and 
DeVito,  la Twins.
cancer
june 22july 22
After the zip-tie incident, youll be really glad youre a giant 
crab and not a malignant neoplasm.
leo
july 23aug. 22 
Youll soon find that your status as King of the Jungle will 
be called into question when the elephants demand to see 
your long-form birth certificate.
virgo
aug. 23sept. 22
Drop the act. We all know that youre not a Virgin  Virgin 
Mobile user, that is. Your iPhone is always on full display. Try 
being more discreet about it this week.
libra
sept. 23oct. 22
Unfortunately for you, the scales are decidedly not in your 
favor this week. Maybe getting involved with some social 
justice issues will tip them back into balance.
scorpio
oct. 23nov. 21
Try not to poison as many people with your tail in the 
future, or you may well end up in one of those weird novelty 
lollipops youve heard so much about.
sagittarius
nov. 22dec. 21
Despite current economic conditions, job opportunities are 
on the rise for you. Dressage is getting big these days, and 
if that doesnt work out, youd be perfect for the NYPDs 
Mounted Unit (provided you dont snicker at the name).
capricorn
dec. 22jan. 19
Your swimming lessons shouldnt be too baaaaaad, but the 
cans you plan on eating later may get soggy.
aquarius
jan. 20feb. 18
The only dawning of the age youll be experiencing this 
week is when it dawns on you how old you have to be to 
get this reference  or youre in CFA. Either way, you will 
feel slightly bereft of energy at the thought.
pisces
feb. 19march 20
Somethings fishy about your future prospects. Stick to the 
rivers and streams that youre used to.
Luke Masa | Junior Staffwriter
Crossword courtesy of BestCrosswords.com

---------------------------------------------------

calendar
pillbox 09.24.1215
MONDAY9.24.12
Fanfare Ciocarlia. brillobox. 9 p.m.
The world-famous Romanian 12-piece brass band will 
host a Balkan dance party, presented by Pandemic.
TUESDAY9.25.12
The Soft Moon. brillobox. 9 p.m.
Post-punk band The Soft Moon will perform with Cold 
Showers, City Buses, Mike Seamans, and Edgar Um 
Bulcholtz. Tickets are $8 and the event is 21+.
WEDNESDAY9.26.12
El Sper. Porter Hall 100. 7:30 p.m.
In celebration of Hispanic Heritage Month, Carnegie 
Mellon will host a showing of El Sper, which tells the 
story of Cuban exiles living in New York City.
Ltitia Sadier. Thunderbird Caf. 9 p.m.
The French musician, best known as singer of the postrock band Stereolab, will perform songs from her new 
album Silencio.
THURSDAY9.27.12
Adamson Speaker Series: Jericho Brown. Adamson 
Auditorium, Baker Hall 136A. 4:30 p.m.
American Book Award-winner Jericho Brown will discuss 
his multifaceted career as a poet and speechwriter.
FRIDAY9.28.12
Conrad Harris. Kresge Theater. 5 p.m.
The world-renowned violinist will give a free performance 
in the College of Fine Arts building.
The City & The City: Artwork by London Writers. 28 
Wood St. 5:30 p.m.
The new exhibition of installation and media artwork by 
London-based artists and writers will open in Downtown. 
The exhibition continues on Saturday evening with a 
literary salon at 812 Liberty Ave.
SATURDAY9.29.12
Matthew Morrison with the PSO. Heinz Hall. 2:30 p.m. 
and 8 p.m.
The star of the hit television show Glee will perform songs 
from his upcoming album of Broadway standards. They 
will also perform on Sunday at 2:30 p.m. and 7:30 p.m.
ONGOING
Portraits of a Garden, Brooklyn Botanic Garden 
Florilegium. Hunt Institute for Botanical Documentation, 
Hunt Library, Fifth Floor. Through Dec. 16.
The exhibit showcases work from 48 American botanical 
artists who are creating an archive of watercolors and 
drawings of the plants at the Brooklyn Botanic Garden. 
The selected pieces will be displayed with historical 
printed volumes from the Hunt Institutes collection. The 
gallerys operating hours are available at huntbot.andrew.
cmu.edu.
White Cube, Green Maze. Carnegie Museum of Art. 
Through Jan. 13.
The exhibit includes models and drawings by architects 
and landscape architects who have worked on 
collaborative projects, focusing on six sites from around 
the world: the Olympic Sculpture Park (U.S.), Stiftung 
Insel Hombroich (Germany), Benesse Art Site Naoshima 
(Japan), Instituto Inhotim (Brazil), Jardn Botnico de 
Culiacn (Mexico), and Grand Traiano Art Complex (Italy).
Feminist and... The Mattress Factory. Through May 26.
This exhibit features works by six female artists from 
around the world, aiming to show that feminism is a 
multivocal, multigenerational, and multicultural movement, 
not a single-issue set of political beliefs. The exhibit is 
guest-curated by Carnegie Mellon professor of art theory 
and criticism Hilary Robinson.
Compiled by Rachel Cohen | Assistant Pillbox Editor
Want your event here?
Email calendar@thetartan.org.
Classifieds
Agency Contact Representative - Be part 
of a energized, fun, and productive team. 
We are looking for someone whos upbeat, 
talkative, friendly, and projects a good attitude. 
Candidates who dont accept NO too easily. 
Part-time $10/hr. 412-874-1893
TUTOR NEEDED FOR 4th GRADER Student 
at Oakland area school needs a devoted tutor 
for ongoing support in math and reading. 
Transitioning from India to U.S. educational 
system. 3-5 hours a week in Oakland area. 
Hindi speaking a plus. Please provide 
background information, availability, and 
requested rate. Contact me at: aug142000@
yahoo.com

---------------------------------------------------

16gallery
pillbox 09.24.12
Sanjana Baldwa | Junior Photographer
The second annual Pittsburgh Zine Fair took place last Saturday in Wiegand Gymnasium. The fair 
featured 40 local zine-makers, who all set up tables to share and sell their work. Senior art major Emily 
Wobb (top) was one of the many Carnegie Mellon students who participated in the Zine Fair.
zine fair.
