Carnegie Mlions student 
newspaper since 1Q06.
Volume 99. Issue 4THE TARTAN
www.ihet3t1.mor:27 September 2004
Tartans win at 
home 34-14
Sports, A12
Magiev closer to 
becoming reality
ScHfech. A7
Inside Deek 
Magazine
Pillbox, 12
John Edwards to lead 
town meeting Tuesday
Student issued subpoena by Secret Service
by Louisa Kinoshi
byLoui saKnnhioaMi
Matt Toups, a senior majoring 
in computer science and history, 
has recently found himself the 
subject of a subpoena issued by 
the United States Secret Service. 
The subpoena focuses on Toups 
and three other systems admin
istrators for Indymedia, an inde
pendent online media organiza
tion that focuses on political and 
social issues across the United 
States.
On August 19, Calyx Internet 
Access, a New York-based Inter
net service provider, was issued 
a federal grand jury subpoena to 
release registration information 
about NYC Indymedia, a subscriber of Calyx. The subpoena 
was issued in relation to an offi
cial criminal investigation of the 
violation of 18 U.S.C. 594, which 
has to do with voter intimida
tion. The subpoena also asked for 
further information about some 
postings made on the website. 
The postings in question con
tained private information about 
Republican Convention dele
gates, including phone numbers, 
e-mail addresses, and hotels at 
which the delegates were expect
ed to stay. Toups and his fellow 
administrators were then issued 
the subpoena as well.
Toups said that he did not know 
much about the RNC delegate 
posting at first, and was surprised 
but not intimidated when he 
found out he would be involved
in a federal subpoena. He said the 
subpoena will not scare us from 
being involved in grassroots pub
lishing and open media.
On August 30 the American 
Civil Liberties Union' (ACLU) an
nounced that it would be repre
senting Toups, as well as Calyx 
and other Indymedia volunteers, 
should further judicial action be 
taken. In a press statement, ACLU 
legal director Ann Beeson said, 
This type of investigation is re
ally a form of intimidation and a 
message to activists that they will 
pay a price for speaking out.
This is not the first time that In
dymedia has been targeted by the 
Secret Service. On April 21,2001, 
the Seattle Independent Media 
Center was visited by the FBI and 
Secret Service. As a result of that
case Indymedia stopped keeping 
records of IP addresses, which 
can be used to identify posters.
Indymedia still has a protective 
stance on anonymity. Quinten 
Steenhuis, a recent CMU gradu
ate and one of the members of 
the Pittsburgh Indymedia collec
tive, said that the subpoena issue 
has reaffirmed our commitment 
to anonymous free speech.
Toups remains optimistic. He 
feels that the Secret Service has 
failed in their purpose to intimi
date Indymedia, and that the sup
port he has received shows that 
Americans still take their liber
ties seriously.
The Secret Service has not yet 
taken any further action.
Cohon covers schools accomplishments in address
by Brittany McCandless 
& Amanda Flynn
byLoui saKnnhioaMit
Students swarmed the Technical Opportunities Conference (TOC) in Wiegand Gym on Tuesday. The TOC allows employers and students to network 
and explore career opportunities. This TOC was one of the largest in recent years, and is considered by some to be a sign of an improving job market.
by Mark Egerman
TpM,yaoeM rnno,Mi
North Carolina Senator and 
vice-presidential candidate John 
Edwards will host a town hall 
meeting on Tuesday in Wiegand 
Gym at 11 am. The visit to Carn
egie Mellon was not announced 
until Saturday.
Senator Edwards has been 
appearing at a number of these 
town hall meetings for the past 
few weeks. According to Kerry 
spokesperson Khristyn Brimmeier, the Senator will not only 
speak on current issues but will 
also have a question and answer 
period to talk with the crowd. 
Brimmeier said, Hes been doing 
these events across the country. 
This format has worked really 
well; this gives people a chance 
to connect to the candidate in a 
smaller environment instead of a 
larger rally.
The town hall meeting will in
clude members of the Western 
Pennsylvania community and 
will not be limited to students. 
There are a limited number of 
tickets available to students who 
are interested in attending. For 
those who are interested but 
unable to obtain a ticket, the en
tire meeting will be broadcast in 
McConomy Auditorium.
This is a wonderful oppor
tunity for students to meet the 
next Vice President of the United 
States, said Jonathan Mendelson, president of Carnegie 
Mellons College Democrats.
Edwards is a great fighter for 
not only students but all Ameri
cans.
If students are interested in 
receiving tickets for the event, 
Mendelson encourages them 
to contact College Democrats 
at ,myjMmtgKLjiMhc,mycMjya 
More information on appear 
ances by members of the Kerry/ 
Edwards campaign team can 
be found at daalfUUhhhcSve. 
auiIzOc,umc
Not everyone shares Mendelsons enthusiasm about Ed
wards visit. According to Carl 
Neimeyer, John Edwards com
ing here will reinforce the pub: 
lies view of Carnegie Mellon as a 
liberal campus. As a member of 
the newly formed Right On, an 
organization to represent con-^ 
servative views on campus, Nei
meyer claims, All [the public] 
will see is the crowd going wild 
for Senator Edwards baseless 
Bush bashing and his blind talk
ing points for the day. They will 
see nothing of us conservatives 
who stand firm with our ideals 
and President Bush.
As Pittsburgh is considered a 
strategic location for the 2004 
campaign, students will have 
many opportunities to hear di
rectly from the candidates them
selves, to attend meetings and 
discussions on the election, and 
inform themselves in order to 
make an educated decision on 
November 2.
TjoauiAt LuaMf buLKadKL 1MLjM9tuL 
ot K taKnnhioaMi nui CdM CKiaKLc
Students find creative
ways to register voters
On Thursday, University Presi
dent Jared L. Cohon delivered his 
biennial State of the University 
Address in the Posner Center con
ference room. His agenda includ
ed discussions about the student 
body, CMU Qatar, sponsored re
search, this years financial high
lights, and Phase I of the Capital 
Campaign.
President Cohon began his 
speech by addressing his concerns 
that Carnegie Mellon University 
was still largely a second choice 
school, especially among compet
itors such as Princeton University, 
Massachusetts Institute of Tech
nology, Cornell University, the 
University of Pennsylvania, and 
Johns Hopkins University. This 
year marked the lowest number 
of applications in five years, and a 
correspondingly high admittance 
rate of 42 percent. According to 
Cohon, Carnegie Mellon is still 
considered to be a selective uni
versity, as the admittance rate is 
less than the requisite 50 percent, 
but admittance in the 2003-2004 
academic year has been uncharac
teristically high. Ultimately what 
really matters is the quality of the 
class of students, Cohon said.
Among the concerns President 
Cohon addressed regarding the 
student body were the decreasing 
numbers of minorities, women, 
and international students. Cohon 
noted that although the number 
of minority applicants this year is 
lower than in previous years, we 
are still very diverse compared to
Anna Vogelzang performed at the Womens Center on Saturday in an effort to 
encourage students to register to vote.
by Isabel Gardocki
byLoui saKnnhioaMi
November 2 marks the elec
tions for the entire House of Rep
resentatives, for one-third of the 
Senate, and for the Presidency 
of the United States of America. 
Just weeks away, this election 
has already spurred the interest 
of many students on Carnegie 
Mellons campus.
The President represents the 
country, points out H&SS firstyear Kelsey Foss. He should be 
the best example of America.
There are currently six candi
dates running to fill the execu
tive position: George W. Bush 
(Republican), John Kerry (Dem
ocrat), Ralph Nader (Reform),
David Cobb (Green), Michael 
Badnarik (Libertarian), and Mi
chael Peroutka (Constitution). 
Each is vying for a share of the 
538 electoral votes.
Popular opinion holds tha 
Pennsylvania is a swing state. 
As such, Pennsylvania is being 
stretched by the efforts of activ
ists on both sides to pull voters, 
and the states 21 electoral votes, 
into their favored candidates 
basket. Carnegie Mellon student 
groups like the College Demo
crats, the College Republicans, 
and the Libertarian Club have 
staked out the sidewalk in fronl 
of Doherty Hall, armed with fly
ers, pamphlets, and party inforSee VOTING, page A3
President Jared Cohon delivered the State of the University Address on Thursday in the new board room of the Posner 
Center. Among the topics Cohon addressed were the Capital Campaign and the campus in Qatar.See UNIVERSITY, page A3

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  SEPTEMBER 27. 2004
Weather
TUESDAY Hi 69 Lo 45
WEDNESDAY Hi 67 Lo 47
THURSDAY Hi 67 Lo 47
FRIDAY Hi 70 Lo 49
SATURDAY Hi 70 Lo 49
Incident
CMiiuiotao, CdiMKat
xN sMlaMmwMi YzzOkxfOAfter a disturbance in the 
fraternity quad, a male student 
reportedly followed another 
student to his residence, making 
violent threats. There was no 
actual physical contact.
8oiM v9Kim
xN sMlaMmwMi YzzOk 5fOO
A large amount of smoke was 
reported coming from the rear of 
Sigma Alpha Epsilons house.
4yiq9KiI
xN sMlaMmwMi YzzOk YYfRR
Chu students in the Hill Dorms 
reported their wallets stolen from 
their unsecured dorm room. The 
amount of cash taken amounted 
to $110. Both wallets were later 
found, empty, between Boss and 
McGill Houses.
1uaui HMdo,9M v,,ojMLa
Yz sMlaMmwMiYzzOk Nfz5
The complainant reported that 
her car was struck while she 
was parking in the East Campus 
garage. She was able to exchange 
information with the other driver 
involved.
HKLjK9otm
Yz sMlaMmwMi YzzOkx-fR
Students were reported as 
dropping water balloons out of 
windows in Morewood Gardens 
E Tower onto passers by in the 
Morewood Gardens courtyard. It 
is unknown what room or floor 
the balloons were coming from.
1uaui HMdo,9M v,,ojMLa
Yx sMlaMmwMi YzzOkx5fYv runner in Schenley Park was hit 
by a car and was reported to be 
bleeding from the head. The police 
and EMS were notified, and the 
victim was taken to the hospital to 
be treated for the injury.
8oiM
YR sMlaMmwMi YzzOk fxz
A smell of smoke was reported 
in the Cyert computing cluster. 
Investigation revealed that the 
smell was related to a compound 
being used in the re-roofing 
of nearby buildings. The air 
conditioning was turned off in 
several buildings in the area after 
repeated complaints.
umlo9Mj wI 
Alexandra Kilduff
Noise Complaint (4)
Fire Alarm/Fire (6)
Other Assaults (1)
Theft/Burglary (3)
Misc. Assistance (1)
Vehicle Collision (3)
Vandalism (1)
Lizza McGregor/Art Editor
CdMna
YY sMlaMmwMi YzzOkxzf3z
A student was found using an ID 
card that had been stolen from 
another student earlier in the 
day.
Corrections & 
Clarifications
In the 9/20/04 issue, the 
Tartan neglected to credit 
Jonathan Mendelson with 
compiling Statistically 
Speaking.
YETZIRAH:
Hillel Student Art Show
Tiffany Yun/Photo Staff
Students celebrate Yom Kippur
Students from both the University of Pittsburgh and Carnegie Mellon gathered on Friday to celebrate 
Yom Kippur, Hebrew for Day of Atonement. From left to right: Jeff Koplan, Caitlin Lorber, and Phil 
Uklonsky, all from the University of Pitsburgh.
Ratio of prostitutes arrested to male customers arrested: 
Average age of entry into prostitution:
9:I13-14
Number of police officers in New York City who have been ac
cused of having sex with prostitutes in exchange for allowing a 19 
brothel to stay open in their precinct:
Percentage of prostitutes reporting sexual abuse, specifically b o
incest in childhood:
Percentage of prostituted women who had pimps while prostitutes:90
Number of women in the United States who at one time have 1,000,000
worked as prostitutes:
Sources: diotaoKL s,oML,M 1uLoauik Associated Press, National Coalition Against Sexual As
sault, sKL 8iKL,ot,u TpKmoLMik The National Task Force on Prostitution
umlo9Mj wI Alisha Bhagat
A message from your Student Body President, Erik Michaels-Ober
Erik Michaels-Ober
The allocation of the Activities 
Fee is one of the most important 
responsibilities of Student Government. 
The first step in this process is the for
mation of the Joint Funding Committee 
(JFC). The members of this committee 
meet with the leaders of all funded stu
dent organizations on campus and make 
recommendations on how to best spend 
the Activities Fee. These recommenda
tions are then subject to final approval 
at a joint session of the Undergraduate 
Student Senate and the Graduate Student 
Assembly (GSA).
To begin the annual budget process, 
this past Thursday, Senate elected Joe 
Arasin, Maureen Burns, Hanish Dayal, 
Laura Drogowski, Nicolette Louissaint, Ed 
Ryan, Tom Sabram, and Joe Wong to 
serve as undergraduate representatives to 
the JFC. Miriam Rosenberg-Lee, selected
by the GSA, joins them as the graduate 
student representative. These students are 
faced with the arduous task of reviewing 
the line-item budget proposals of more 
than 100 student organizations. Through 
Student Government, I have worked with 
all nine members of this years JFC and I 
am confident that their recommendation 
will be fair and judicious.
Last year, some organizations com
plained that they had been overlooked 
by the JFC and deserved a higher budget 
subsidy. Changes have already been made 
to help address this concern. The Student 
Body Constitution has been amended to 
combine what used to be two separate 
JFC processes, one in the fall and one in 
the spring, into one. This change allows 
the JFC to consider the budgets of all orga
nizations simultaneously, thereby giving 
them all access to the same pool of funds. 
It also gives the JFC the entire fall semes
ter to consider other ways to improve and 
streamline the process. During this peri
od, I encourage you to attend JFC meet
ings to contribute your feedback about the 
process. Notice of meetings will be posted 
to the ,myctayjMLacqueMiLmMLa electronic 
bulletin board.
Student Body Vice President for Finance 
Steven Kling is responsible for convening 
the JFC and serves as chair pro tempore 
until a permanent chair is elected by the 
Committee. He has suggested that there 
be more time for appeals once the JFC 
makes its initial recommendation. This 
will allow groups who are dissatisfied 
with budget cuts to reargue their cases to 
the JFC before the final recommendation 
is made. Steven is also working to make 
the process easier for student organiza
tions while holding them accountable for 
their spending.
The Joint Funding Committee does 
more than make recommendations 
about budgets. It brings undergraduate 
and graduate students together to discuss 
the priorities of the entire student body. 
Every year, the amount of funds request
ed by ambitious student organizations
is greater than the funds available. It is 
the task of the JFC to fund the events and 
activities that are most important to stu
dents In doing so, it empowers students to 
make the most of their time on campus 
that is not spent in classes, working, or 
sleeping.
The Activities Fee makes possible 
such events as movies in McConomy 
Auditorium, Spring Carnival, and the 
newspaper you are currently reading. It 
also funds athletic clubs and cultural orga
nizations. To a large extent, these organi
zations define the extracurricular student 
experience at Carnegie Mellon. I encour
age you to join and participate in at least 
one of these organizations during your 
time here. It is a great way to meet people 
with similar interests or explore subjects 
beyond your field of study.
S9MKtM ju Lua dMtoaKaM au tMLj MmKo9 au 
pres@cmu.edu nui muiM oLnuimKaouL Kwuya 
tayjMLa uiqKLo0KaouLt ui adM KLLyK9 wyjqMa 
liu,Mttc
TABLEOF InThisIssxxe:
CONTE^lii^ I
News...........................................Ai' : i
Science & Technology............A5 i
Forum........................................A8 j
iSports........................................Al2 !
Pillbox........................................I
Classifieds.......................................II1
Comics..............;.......................14
Calendar...................................19IDossier........................................2,0 j
* City receives grant for maglev
Science & Technology, A5
1 Lifelog sees new life as ASSIST
Science & Technology, A5
* AB Political leans to the left
Forum, A8
Point/Counterpoint: Moore
Forum, A9
 Phone exhibit at the Warhol
Pillbox, 3
Yo La Tengo
Metallica
Review: Wimbledon
Pillbox, 5 
Pillbox, 5
i
Pillbox, 9
Executive
Privilege
Mark Egermart
Running a newspaper presents 
a number of interesting challeng
es. On a purely logistic level, a full 
issue has to be published every 
Monday. The Tartan has a staff 
approaching 100 students, so a 
strong and capable infrastructure 
is necessary to guarantee that 
their time is effectively used. We 
need to be ready for news to break 
at any time. As soon as the paper 
is published, we need to begin 
planning for the next weeks issue 
immediately.
Yet alongside all of these chal
lenges there exist additional dif
ficulties. One of these difficulties 
is being as objective and unbi
ased as possible in our coverage. 
Accusations of bias, slant, and dis
tortion are serious charges to any 
journalist. While we all realize that 
you cannot please all the people 
all the time, that doesnt mean we 
shouldnt wonder about our.own 
biases. Furthermore, The Tartan is 
often used by individuals to accuse 
others of bias (as in this issue), or 
even to accuse The Tartan itself of 
bias (as in last issue).
Yet there is an inherent danger 
in the accusation of bias. To claim 
an objective reality that is being 
distorted by a journalist ignores 
the complexities and complica
tions that a true investigation into 
bias requires. At the same time, 
to claim that all reality is simply 
recounted narrative and that there 
can be no falsity to the journalists 
lived experience is to deny some 
of the responsibilities that a news
paper like The Tartan has to the 
community.
So how do we understand the 
relationship between our observa
tions and some understanding of 
the truth? This is hardly a new 
question.
The ancient Greeks had a word, 
lKiidMtoKk which described what 
we today might call free speech. 
A speaker who employed lKiidMtoK 
would describe the truth, even at 
great risk to himself. A frequently 
used example is that of Plato in 
Dionysius sIiK,ytMc Yet the rela
tionship between the speaker of 
lKiidMtoK and the truth is never 
truly brought into question. It 
is always assumed that the lKi 
idMtoKtaMt is assured of the truth 
through his own moral qualities.
We cannot assume that because 
we speak with conviction or with 
good intentions that we are telling 
the truth. We cannot employ the 
same view of the truth that the 
Greeks did.
There is a temptation to claim 
that if a majority of readers 
believes the story to be objective 
and believable, then there is some 
truth to it. Yet we need to remem
ber that bias can be so institution
alized that we all fall for it. Before 
the beginning of the most recent 
war in Iraq, it was almost univer
sally accepted that Saddam pos
sessed weapons of mass destruc
tion. Even anti-war voices claimed 
as much, despite viewing the war 
as a bad idea. Over one year and 
over 20000 deaths later, it is now 
a widely accepted fact that there 
were no WMDs. We shouldnt let 
public acceptability be the last 
judge of truthfulness.
The notion of lKiidMtoK is alive 
today in the notion of speaking 
truth to power. This is a truth that 
is lived every day. We see it in the 
struggles and successes of billions 
of people. We see it in the elations, 
alienations, and oppressions of 
everyday life, at the micropolitical 
level of interpersonal interaction 
and at the macropolitical level 
of societal forces. We are biased 
when our stories conflict with the 
lived experience of the commu
nity, not when they conflict with 
the expectations of the commu
nity. We need to discover more 
ways to express these truths. Its a 
challenge not only for journalists 
but for anyone who is interested in 
social change.
How Things Work: Heart 
Transplants
Science & Technology, A5
1 SayWhat? Highlander
Forum, A8
?The Hip Hop Intelligentsia
Pillbox, 4
ESPN going downhill
Pillbox, 10
Review: Maggies Mercantile
Pillbox, 6

---------------------------------------------------

"Settle for a traditional work experience out of college OR... 
...join Infosys' inaugural class of US educated hires in India"
Employment opportunities available in:
 Software Engineering  Quality
 Test Engineering  R & D 
Internship opportunities also available
Infosys (NASDAQ: INFY) is a world leader in consulting and 
information technology services. Infosys offers complete 
end-to-end business solutions and strategic sourcing designed 
to increase its clients competitiveness.
Info session : 11th October 
Room:TBD 
Time : 7 p.m. - 9 p.m.
First round interview : 25th October 
For further details please contact: 
Narsimha Prasad 
Email: PrasadDN@infosys.comV___________________________)
KPERIENCE PENKSVLllfiHirS #l HAUNTED RTTRIICTIOfl!
headline for the university address that is extending the whole line
Dude with strange name 
Mumia...Infosys*
POWERED BY INTELLECT
DRIVEN BY VALUES
www.infosys.com
NOW BOOKING!
byLouyisosua K nhyhysosua M tyTLispLoshia
Transportation available.
October 1-31
Monday: Closed
Sunday - Thursday: Dark - 10PM
Friday & Saturday: Dark - Midnight
Toll Free (877) 564-7644  Local (724) 564-7644
Directions: Route 857 8 miles South of Uniontown, PA 
WWW.FRIGHTFARM.COM
Voting Headline
caption me z
byAliKilduff
'Mht Tjoaui
On Tuesday, September 28, at 
7:30 pm, the prominent capital 
attorney Robert Bryan will be 
speaking on Mumia Abu-Jamal: 
A Journalists Struggle Against 
Political Persecution and the 
Death Penalty in the Adamson 
Wing of Baker Hall. Bryan, the 
former chairman of the National 
Coalition to Abolish the Death 
Penalty, has recently become the 
lead attorney for Mumia Abu-Jamal, a journalist and activist con
victed for shooting a Philadelphia 
policeman in 1981.
Mumias is undoubtedly the 
most famous death penalty cas 
in the world at the present time, 
says David Demarest, the profes
sor emeritus of English who was 
responsible for bringing Bryan to 
campus. We expect Robert Bry
an to give us a clear sense of how 
justice has failed in his case and 
in other cases like his.
Mumia Abu-Jamal was an ac
tive member in the Black Pan
thers movement in Philadelphia 
in the late 1970s, and later be
came a popular journalist in local 
radio. However, in 1981 a dispute 
with a local officer resulted in 
the officers death. Abu-Jamals 
subsequent trial is considered 
by many to be one of the most 
famous political trials of the late 
20th century. He is currently on 
death row in Waynesburg, Pa.
Since his indictment Abu-Jamal has published several books, 
including All Things Censored, 
Live from Death Row, and Faith 
of Our Fathers: An Examination 
of the Spiritual Life of African 
and African-American People. 
Organizations have been created 
across the world to lobby on AbuVOTING, from page Al
front of Doherty Hall, armed with 
flyers, pamphlets, and party infor
mation. Billionaires for Bush, a 
satirical group, made an appear
ance on campus earlier this month. 
On Thursday, a voter registration 
table was set up inside the Univer
sity Center, manned by non-parti
san students who urged students 
to express their opinions through 
the ballot. In the last presidential 
election, over 100 million Ameri
cans didnt show up to vote, read 
a Righteous Babe poster, one of 
the many election-fueled mes
sages tacked up around campus. 
The 2000 election was one of the 
few times in history when electoral 
votes, by a count of 271 to 266, de
termined the Chief Executive with
out the mandate of the voters.
The direction of the country 
is at stake, emphasizes Melanie 
Beukin, a masters student in the 
professional writing department. 
However, I wish I could be voting 
for a candidate rather than against 
one.
H&SS first-year David Lettieri 
explained this paradox as a choice 
between the lesser of two evils.
The invasion of Iraq was a ter
ribly misguided mistake, which 
yielded no weapons of mass de
struction but cost a lot of innocent 
lives, said Adam Jaffe, a sopho
more music major.
However, first-year Informa
tion Studies major Michael Riley 
said that, although he despises 
Bush, the President has momen
tum right now with his policies, 
and that Kerrys attempt to reverse 
them could only hurt the general 
well-being of America.
The characters of the two frontrunners, George W. Bush and John 
Kerry, also faced scrutiny among 
CMU students. Interpreting what 
the media has labeled as Kerrys 
flip-flop voting record, first-year 
history major Camille Fisher said 
that Kerry sees the complexities 
in situations by analyzing all fac
ets of the presented choice. On the 
other hand, first-year English ma
jor Lesley Ridge commented that 
Bush is a personable and downto-Earth candidate with the abil
ity to be more in touch with the 
concerns of todays voters than 
his main competitor.
The possibility remains that 
some CMU students will still refuse 
to cast their votes at all because 
they are unhappy with the op
tions available. Vrushali Paunikar, 
a first-year business major, warns 
that those who do complain but 
remain passive are letting unfavor
able conditions slip by unchecked. 
We must think optimistically, she 
advises, putting one step forward 
every time, and never giving up.
2: Nicholas Milasich alumnai 98 creative writing and biology. 14th ward dem. Club (left) 
Adam Schloss frosh physics (right)
the increase [in sponsored research] 
is very significant, especially since last 
year. Cohon described this increase as 
the result of outstanding faculty. Yet 
he noted that compared to other uni
versities the revenue per square foot for 
sponsored research is still low due to the 
fact that the school has not built enough 
buildings. Janusz Szczypula, an associ
ate professor in Information Systems, 
commented that he was pleased that 
[President Cohon] addressed the need 
for an increase in space.
Cohon was pleased to announce that 
the Universitys net assets were up to 
$158 million for the 2004 fiscal year. 
Although endowment is up from $655 
million to $768, he commented that 
[Carnegie Mellons] endowment is still 
small compared to other universities. 
When addressing the first 18-month 
phase of the universitys Capital Cam
paign, Cohon declared, I want, and I 
think this university is capable of, rais
ing one billion dollars during the next 
Capital Campaign. He stated that the 
Tepper and Gates Foundation donations 
were exactly the results we needed. 
In particular the [Gates contribution]
puts us in a very small and select group 
of universities.
Among the recent highlights ad
dressed were the high rankings of Carn
egie Mellon by 'MhthMM.k (csc 'Mht 
KLj )ui9j BMluiak and the )K99 saiMMa 
buyiLK9c For us to rank this highly is a 
tribute to the school, Cohon said. Alsc 
among the highlights discussed were the 
recent Presidential Early Career Awards 
for Science and Engineering to faculty 
members Yoky Matsuoka and Jennifei 
Lerner. He commented that the awards 
were cherished and prestigious. 
Continuing with University high
lights, Cohon addressed the psychology 
department in particular by stating, 1 
could single out a lot of the departments 
for kudos, but psychology has had a re
ally remarkable few months.
Cohons speech concluded with a briei 
question and answer period. Brown felt 
that President Cohon hit some of the 
really major highlights, while manag
ing to address the trends in [student 
enrollment] that are in the wrong direc
tion... we just need to turn the curves 
around.
Jamals behalf, including mymoKc 
uiq and niMMmymoKc,umc
In addition to his general po
sition opposing the death pen
alty, we should be able to get a 
clear update on the case of Mu
mia Abu-Jamal, says Demarest. 
Mumias case, after a long stay, 
is now moving again through fed
eral appeals, and Bryan has said 
that his life is in grave danger. 
Renee Wilson, a member of 
the Western Pennsylvania Com
mittee to Free Mumia Abu-Jamal, also helped to bring Robert 
Bryan to Pittsburgh. Right now, 
if they wanted to, they could sign 
a death warrant, she said.
Presenting with Bryan on Tues
day will be Linn Washington, a 
journalist for the Philadelphia 
Tribune who has been following 
Abu-Jamals case since the origi
nal trial.
Demarest hopes that Bryan 
will be able to bring the case to 
the attention of a younger gen
eration. Now theres less knowl
edge around about his case  
especially among people under 
30. The question is whether that 
interest will grow again.
Wilson also wishes for students 
to become involved. I would 
want students to get out of this 
lecture how it really is a travesty 
of justice for Mumia Abu-Jamal 
to be locked up for 23 years.
UNIVERSITY, from page Al
are still very diverse compared to other 
universities. William Brown, a profes
sor of biological sciences, noted that 
he was especially concerned with the 
population of women decreasing, but 
he also took into consideration the fact 
that some of the low gender ratios in the 
last three years were due to trends in... 
certain disciplines.
I believe, and I say this with confi
dence, that it is the perception of inter
national students that getting into the 
country is difficult, not safe, unattract
ive, even unpleasant, Cohon said. I 
say perceptions, not realities ... this is a 
national problem.
Cohon then remarked on Carnegie 
Mellons newest branch in Qatar. I have 
two Concerns about the student body 
[at the Qatar campus]: the less than 
adequate preparation ... and students 
being overly passive, said Cohon. How
ever, he was pleased to observe that the 
students at Qatar are eager, engaged, 
and delightful, and that classes thus far 
are going very well.
Cohon continued by addressing 
sponsored research. He observed that
THE TARTA NEWS
pipim
Ilf It
lir'V ' aiti- Jj
Keeping campus 
informed, one 
reader at
a time.

---------------------------------------------------

lVs
The director of 
Fahrenheit 11," will 
be discussing youth 
votership and the 
current political 
climate.
MS
fAy.i < afe;* ; 
vV.-/
Fahrenheit 9/11
September 30 7:30, 10, and 12:30 pm McConomy
Sponsored by AB Films
First Presidential Debate
September 30 9 pm Rangos 1
Sponsored by Student Government
Voter Mobilization Concert
October 1 5 pm CFA Lawn
Sponsored by Everybody VOTE and The Co-op
Michael Moore
October 6 4:30 pm Hamerschlag Mall 
Rainsite: Carnegie Music Hall (4400 Forbes Avenue)
Sponsored by AB Lectures
OUTspoken Discussion
October 28 5:30 pm Danforth Lounge
Sponsored by SoHo
Election Returns Party
November 2 8 pm Rangos Ballroom
Sponsored by Student Government
: :
fjSte'I ' i iC"...~ vjHi I
..........
. Ki.  :
byLo ui osa KyLnahMa taTTun puoaL ,ahMeoLyoMun ynr maojgcojdsajpuoa locrano KuyTMoMun
YET
EVERYBODYVOTE
A nncrj m rn
student
pugwash

---------------------------------------------------

Science ^Technology
27 September 2004THE TARTANA5
SciTechBriefs
MIT plans spinachpowered electronics
Researchers at the 
Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology have found hightech ways to take advantage of a 
plants use of photosynthesis. The 
new device sandwiches ground 
spinach between layers of con
ductive glass and small amounts 
of gold. While the unfortunate 
effect of salt water on circuitry 
thwarted past attempts, new 
organic semiconductors have 
been employed to prevent elec
trical shorts. The new device 
could eventually be used to pro
vide power to laptops, mobile 
phones, or other small electron
ics. While applications might 
still be a decade in the future, 
the advantages are numerous: 
the technology is lightweight, 
portable, and environmentally 
friendly.
Source: Associated Press
Siemens developing 
sensors that can smell
Siemens is continuing research 
into small sensors with the abil
ity to detect a wide variety of 
odors. Doctors have known for 
some time that various medi
cal conditions have the ability 
to show themselves in a persons 
breath well before symptoms 
become obvious. Asthma suffer
ers and those with cystic fibrosis 
or forms of cancer breathe out 
chemical markers of their condi
tions.
The Siemens research offers 
insight into the possibility of 
high-end devices that can engage 
in activities ranging from sens
ing bad breath to preventing car 
use by a driver with alcohol on 
his breath. Other applications 
could include portable devices 
to detect a variety of noxious 
substances, including smoke and 
carbon monoxide. '
Source: BBC News
BMW showcases 
hydrogen car
BMW unveiled what is now 
the worlds fastest hydrogenpowered car at the Paris auto 
show on Wednesday. Known as 
the H2R, the new vehicle can 
exceed speeds of 185 miles per 
hour while running under the 
higher combustion pressure of 
the hydrogen-air. The company 
warns, however, that the cars 
indirectly result in pollution due 
to the production of hydrogen 
fuel cells. Although BMW is look
ing further into cars that run on 
fuel cells, it still concentrates on 
the combustion engine because 
of its benefits.
Source: Reuters
Chicago to use smart 
surveillance cameras
Mayor Richard M. Daley of 
Chicago has announced the 
citys plan to shift to a more 
advanced system of video sur
veillance by 2006. The move will 
make Chicagos citizens the most 
closely observed in the world, 
and hopefully the safest. Because 
police specialists in Chicago 
already have the ability to moni
tor real-time footage from about 
2000 cameras throughout the 
city, the addition of the new 250 
cameras under the mayors plan 
may not seem, to be a significant 
increase.
The manner in which the cam
eras will be used, however, will 
be an extraordinary technologi
cal leap. Sophisticated computer 
programs will alert the police 
upon seeing suspicious move
ments. The cameras are placed 
at buildings and other structures 
considered terrorist targets; 
Should a person Unger, wander 
aimlessly, or abandon a car or 
package, images will be high
lighted and sent to the central 
monitoring station. Police offi
cers will then be dispatched to 
investigate the scene.
Source: 2FoM 'Mh Pui. ComMt
, * 'i t LM'.t t  ,t : '
Compiled by 
Alexander Su
Port Authority recieves $1.9 million for study into maglev
by J.T. Trollman
Sduau Tjoaui
The Port Authority of Allegheny 
County has received an addition
al $1.9 million toward a pro
posed 54-mile maglev project. 
The Port Authority entered into 
this grant agreement with the 
Federal Railroad Administration 
(FRA) this past Friday, accord
ing to Port Authority spokesman 
Bob Grove. The maglev project, 
which involves using strong 
magnetic fields to suspend and 
propel a train along a special
ized magnetic track at speeds of 
up to 240 mph, was originally 
proposed for Pittsburgh in the 
mid-90s.
In 1990, a Maglev Working 
Group developed through 
Carnegie Mellon was incorpo
rated to form Maglev Inc. The 
company has since worked with 
the Port Authority and the FRA 
to fund the installation both pri
vately and publicly. The mag
lev would connect Pittsburgh 
International Airport, downtown, 
Monroeville, and Greensburg. In 
2003, Maglev Inc. moved from 
Monroeville to a 32,000-squarefoot former steel plant. At the 
time of the move, Sy9l maga
zine reported that Maglev would 
work with up to $20 million in 
U.S. Navy funding to research 
and help implement the technol
ogy over the next three years.
Maglev train technology is 
new to the U.S. The first com
mercial use of high-speed maglev 
was implemented in Shanghai, 
China, in 2002, using a train 
developed by the German com
pany Transrapid International. 
It was inaugurated in December
2003, and currently runs over 
a 19-mile stretch in less than 
10 minutes. Its average speed is 
267 mph, slightly higher than 
the proposed top speed of the 
Pittsburgh maglev project.
The Shanghai maglev train is 
the only commercial high-speed 
maglev in operation. Along with 
Germany and Japan, the U.S. 
government began researching 
opportunities for placement in 
the 1990s. In the past few years, 
seven prospective project sites 
were narrowed down to two: 
the Pittsburgh proposal and a 
Baltimore-to-Washington pro
posal. Both are still being con
sidered, and no set decision date 
has been made.
In an interview with The 
Tartan on Friday, Grove said 
that the Pittsburgh proposal 
was more likely to be accepted 
than any alternative proposal. 
Grove described the project as 
a national trial, to see how this 
technology can respond to the 
demands put on it on an urban 
setting. Pittsburghs climate, he 
says, is much more demanding 
than that of the Washington area: 
They do not have the topog
raphy that we do, the hills and 
the rivers to negotiate. He also 
stressed Pittsburghs colder win
ters as another factor that would 
make the area more suitable for 
such a trial installation, which, 
if it were approved, would win 
$950 million in federal funds for 
its construction.
However, there has been 
some speculation as to wheth
er enough money would come 
from the private sector to cover 
an estimated $2 billion to $3 
billion in total costs. In a 2002 
CiowyLMBMeoMh column, policy
The worlds first commercially useable maglev in Shanghai opened late last year.
Photo courtesy of Morning
analyst Paul Stifflemire esti
mated that just the return on 
the $2 billion investment would 
require an average of 37,500 rid
ers every day, paying an average 
$15 fare.
When asked if there would 
be enough passengers in the 
Pittsburgh area riding the 
maglev every day to justify its 
expense, Grove said that the Port 
Author|ty was still really work
ing through that in the planning 
document, and stressed that 
the project was not funded by 
the Port Authority. Were trying 
to push this along to the draft 
environmental impact state
ment. We have a draft of the 
draft submitted to the FRA in 
August. The FRA has to approve 
the draft of that document; once 
theyre happy that the document 
has accurately looked at all the
impacts ... it will ask us to pub
lish it.
Once the statement has been 
published, a public comment 
period will follow, although 
Grove said that this will in any 
event happen no earlier than 
January; during that time, the 
Port Authority will entertain a 
series of public hearings to allow 
residents to ask questions and 
voice opinions about the project.
DARPA relaunches controversial LifeLog project
by Alexander Su
byLoui saKnQhioaMi
Imagine how it would feel if the gov
ernment had on record every bit of infor
mation of your personal life: whom you 
called two days ago, what TV show you 
watched last nighteven the fact that 
you smelled something funny around 
noon today would be fair game. That was 
exactly what an ambitious research proj
ect called LifeLog set out to do over a 
year ago. Several civil liberties advocates 
cried foul in response, forcing the govern
ment to cancel the Pentagon-sponsored 
program in February.
The Defense Advanced Research 
Projects Agency (DARPA), the Pentagons 
research arm, is planning to revive a 
modified version of the LifeLog project. It has been renamed the Advanced 
Soldier Senior Information System and 
Technology (ASSIST) and has a more 
realistic objective. The goal of ASSIST is to 
collect data on what a soldier experiences 
in combat, as opposed to collecting data 
on civilian activities. The program seeks 
to give military officers and commanders 
a better sense of how the events of a battle 
unfold by combining the digital memories 
and perspectives of several soldiers.
After a patrol, ASSIST would pick 
out specific objects, scenes, and activi
ties from the recordings and process the 
data so as to benefit the military in later 
missions. According to DARPA, todays 
verbal and text-based reports limit the 
extent of information that is conveyed and 
critical information is lost. DARPA hopes 
that the program will be able to apply this 
information in real time as well as using
diaries to track information afterwards.
In a battlefield, it makes sense, said 
Mark Stehlik, assistant dean of undergrad
uate education in the School of Computer 
Science. The collection of this information 
will allow the Pentagon to better model 
these complicated situations.
Yet some are still concerned about 
the project. According to Bradley Malin, 
a doctoral student in Computation, 
Organizations, and Society, the two big
gest concerns are that individuals need 
to know is what information is gathered 
and how that information is going to be 
used.
While the Pentagon has reduced the 
scope of the project, there are still worries 
that it could be expanded in the future. 
As Stehlik pointed out, The narrower the 
focus, the less likelihood of abuse.
DARPA is planning to offer four to eight
year-long early development contracts for 
ASSIST, each under $4 million. Hardware 
and algorithms will need to be developed 
for a system that a soldier could use to 
record activities and events carried out in 
the field. The program would make use 
of various types of sensors, audio record
ers, and GPS locators to keep a digital 
library of voluntary or involuntary physi
ological clues. The contracts would go to 
top research centers, such as Carnegie 
Mellon, which are working on this cutting-edge research.
Planners at DARPA are more confident 
about the new programs applications, 
because the new focus is clearer and the 
privacy concerns are significantly mor 
manageable in comparison. ASSISTs 
evaluations will take place at one of the 
Armys urban warfare training centers at 
Fort Knox, Ky., or Fort Benning, Ga.
How Things Work: Heart Transplants
by Bradford Yankiver
vttotaKLa Sduau Tjoaui
The first human heart transplant was 
performed by a telam of South African 
surgeons on December 3,1967. The team 
successfully replaced the failing heart of 
a 53-year-old patient with the healthy 
heart of a young auto-accident victim. 
Interestingly, today's most widely used
Danielle Saudino/Art Staff
cardiac transplant method, the bicaval 
technique, remains relatively unchanged 
from the original biatrial method 
employed nearly 40 years ago.
When a donor heart becomes avail
able, the surgical feam assembles imme
diately, because the heart cannot five 
outside the body for more than about 
four hours; in contrast, the liver can be 
implanted after up to three days out of 
the body. Preoperative preparations for
the patient include general anesthesia 
with mechanical ventilation and car
diovascular monitoring. Using a scalpel 
and saw, the surgeons make an incision 
lengthwise through the breastbone and, 
by placing a chest retractor in that inci
sion, separate the left and right rib cages 
to gain access to the heart and lungs.
The human heart consists of two 
halves, each of which has an atrium, 
a waiting area for blood returning to 
the heart, and a ventricle, the strong 
pump chamber that drives blood out 
of the heart. The right side of the heart 
pushes the deoxygenated blood through 
the lungs, where the blood is oxygen
ated, and the left side of the heart works 
to push the newly oxygenated blood 
through the rest of the body. To allow for 
the efficient completion of this circuit, 
the heart has one artery and four veins 
between the heart and lungs and one 
artery and two veins between the heart 
and the rest of the circulatory system.
Before removal, the native heart must 
be bypassed. The surgeon connects the 
patients circulatory system to a cardio
pulmonary bypass machine, which oxy
genates the blood and propels it through 
the body. A surgeon performing a bicaval 
transplant will then remove the native 
heart by separating both arteries, the 
two veins that bring blood back from the 
body, and finally the back wall of the left 
atrium, thereby creating a single atrial 
cuff around the openings of the four 
remaining veins. To implant the donor 
heart, which has been preserved in a 
. cold solution, the surgeon trims the'back 
wall of the left atrium of the donor heart 
to match the native left atrial cuff; the 
native and doqor atria are joined. The 
remaining two veins, and the two arter
ies are then joined to the corresponding
vasculature of the donor heart. In the 
original biatrial procedure, a portion 
of the right atrium was also left to cre
ate a cuff for the two veins inserting 
there. Leaving parts of the native heart 
to create atrial cuffs is believed to be 
advantageous because they decrease the 
number of connections that must be 
made. This results in a shorter operation 
and a lesser chance that buildup inside 
the patients vasculature will be acciden
tally freed, which would create a risk of 
a deadly blood clot.
The patients newly connected arter
ies are opened to allow the heart to start 
beating again, and the cardiopulmonary 
bypass machine slowly stops assisting. 
Sometimes, the implanted heart must 
be shocked with small electric currents 
to reset the hearts natural pacemaker. 
Once the surgeons are satisfied that the 
donor heart is functioning properly, the 
chest is closed.
Once the surgery is complete, the 
transplant procedure enters an even 
more difficult phase. Protecting the new 
heart from the patients own immune 
system requires a strict regimen of 
immunosuppressive therapy, which con
tinues for the rest of the patients life. 
After the first-ever heart transplant, in 
1967, the drugs prescribed knocked out 
the patients entire immune system and 
he contracted pneumonia that caused 
him to die only 18 days after the surgery. 
Todays medicines selectively disable tis
sue-specific defenses, allowing the body 
to continue fighting pathogens such as 
bacteriaandvifujses.
Though the supply of donor hearts 
does not meet the demand, heart 
transplantation offers life after terminal 
heart failure tq a,bout 2200 people each 
.year.

---------------------------------------------------

Come down and play a ''just for fun" game of Jeopardy! Win cool prizes 
and freetickets to the shows! Meet the Jeopardy! Clue Crew!
Its your chance to be 
on Jeopardy!
Ill; Pass a short pre-test and youll be invited to participatein the contestant auditions later that day!
You could find yourself representing CMU in the competition for $100,000*
Sponsored by the Office of Student Activities.For questions, contact Student Activities at 8-8704 or stop by UC Suite 103
Or. log onto www.jeopardy.com
Eligible students must be full-time undergraduates with no previous Bachelor's degrc 
The first 1.000 students in line will be guaranteed to take the pre-test.
Wednesday, September 29, between 3:30PM and 6:00PM 
in the Rangos Ballroom, University Center

---------------------------------------------------

Cai'iieiiie TV lei lo 11
Tickets on Sale Now for this Special Ri25 Performance 
and Interactive Discussion with Laurie AndersonI
LAURIE ANDERSON'S 
"The End of the Moon"
TALiB KWELi
WITH SPECIAL GUEST
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 2
ROBERTO CLEMENTE BRIDGE & FEDERAL STREET OUTSIDE PNC PARK
Thursday, October 14 
8:00 p.m. -10:00 p.m. 
Byham Theater, Downtown
(co-presented with the Pittsburgh Cultural Trust) 
Student seating - Gallery  $10.50 
Orchestra & Mezzanine seating - $30.50
Violinist composer, singer, sculptor, poet and leader in the use of multimedia in the arts  Laurie 
Anderson is renowned as one of the most eclectic and groundbreaking performers in the world. 
NASA chose Anderson as its first artist in residence for 2003 and she has collaborated with other 
innovative artists such as Brian Eno.Lou Reed,and Peter Gabriel. Wired magazine put heron the 
cover in 1994 with the headline: "Laurie Anderson reinvents herself  again".
Ms. Anderson will premier her latest work, The End of the Moon, at this performance.
Purchase tickets online at https://secure.pgharts.org/CMU 
or call (412) 471 6930.
The CoUegeCity ROCK *N ROW )Ts&F(E presentsA SUITE FOR LESS THAN 
A HOTEL ROOM
All students, faculty and staff....
Check out one of the most exciting Hip Hop artists 
on the scene, Tafib Kwefi with speda! guests. 
Order your cksfe online today at 
www.rQckaTKirow.com. Just $7.50.
Catch TNT Freestyle MT-ers 
Tommy Ciowe-rs and Jeff Tilton 
do tsunamis over the 
three-stories hgh
Pfea ttprik &&))itiatma*skm 
fcw fflsF- te tatw msesfK 
sieri .toiassmS mf mefi. sr* s /KfeteeStfffE, eKt& 
caxmr. atmm Sc ot 9S5t: tsSiSleSt.
Come audition for Jeopardy^ or play for tun 
and prizes. You might even find 
yourself competing in the 
College Championship, 
lapsing at Pitts Petersen 
Events Center. Oct. 9 & 10.
H Us ssrisjtpfc a $an wtttf: 
-tea^ani^ yMWm- * ttositot
Hit the Head of the Ohio Regatta.
Chee^ on one of the biggest and best coSegiate ar?d hig^i school rowing 
events in ttw country
Hsac cf the OfHD &00*rcn 
cS-vies & Expo Moaner* 
rrfssyte m Siwws 1S4fl0k| 
! JeDpdjf?sBrasiBus 2-430'! 
I om KweS Concert 4:3Ck
WWWJMCKAmmOW.COM
^hadjijSuk(^m
Elegantly furnished one- or two-bedroom apartment suites indude an equipped kitchen, 
fluffy linens, TV. VCR, cable movies, free local phone service, and reserved parking.
Conveniently located at 5405 Fifth Avenue, Shadyside. Two blocks from Walnut Streets 
145 fashionable shops and 12 delicious restaurants. One mile to CMU/Pitt/Hospitals.
DAILY, WEEKLY, MONTHLY RATES
FREE HIGH-SPEED INTERNET ACCESS*
5405 Fifth Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15232
(412) 441-4444
http://www.shadysideinn.com
^Internet access available in roost two-bedroom and Mansion Suites
whether you are interested in
robotics, technology, science fiction, 
business or public policy, 
electronics and entertainment 
or futuristic art 
there will be something 
for you at the 
Robotics Institute 25th Anniversary.
This is a once in a lifetime event. 
Come and join the celebration!
Register today at 
www.rl25.org

---------------------------------------------------

mimvjiiiiii .-i m*1
Forum
27 September 2004THE TARTANPage A8
No-fly lists create false sense of 
security at great ethical cost
In the wake of September 11, national 
security has become one of the most 
prominent concerns on the minds of 
Americans. Due to the nature of 9/11, the 
.government has taken steps in tightening 
security, particularly in air transporta
tion. Although this is the right direction 
to go, the measures the government is 
taking may go too far.
For years the government has had a 
no-fly list which is essentially a list of 
certain people that pose a threat to home
land security. Before September 11, the 
list comprised approximately one dozen 
names. Afterwards, the list was reevalu
ated. The result: a list containing over 
3500 names and still growing. In theory,
, a no-fly list sounds wonderful, keeping 
out those the government feels pose a 
threat to security. It seems so good that 
countries such as Canada have developed 
similar plans to increase their level of se
curity. In practice, however, it seems to 
cause more problems than it solves.
Last week Yusuf Islam, formerly known 
as Cat Stevens (a singer from the 60s and 
70s), boarded United Airlines flight 919 
in London bound for Washington Dulles 
International Airport. After the flight had 
departed, it received information that 
Islam was aboard and that he had been 
placed on the no-fly list. The flight was 
immediately diverted to Maines Ban
gor International Airport and Islam was 
asked to disembark and await further 
questioning, leaving his daughter aboard 
to continue to Washington, D.C.
Since the incident, Islam has made it 
clear that he is outraged. According to 
an article by the Associated Press, Islam 
made his intentions very clear, stating: 
The whole thing is totally ridiculous. 
Everybody knows who I am.... Every
body knows my campaign for charity, for
peace. After his conversion to Islam, he 
has spent his years campaigning for peace 
and working for several charity organiza
tions raising money for what he believes 
to be worthy organizations.
U.S. officials feel differently about the 
funding, though, and believe that he has 
had ulterior motives for the use of por
tions of his money. Allegations have been 
made claiming that parts of Islams chari
ties went towards terrorist organizations. 
These organizations later funded aggres
sive acts, threatening homeland security. 
The government has yet to give any spe
cifics on the case.
It becomes a question of ethics. Just 
why did they choose Yusef Islam, of all 
people, to target? As an activist, Islam has 
spent years trying to portray Muslims in 
a positive light, opening Islamic schools 
in Britain and raising money which has 
gone to undeniably legitimate charities. 
He has also spent the past few years as an 
anti-terror activist in support of the Bush 
administrations policies of searching out 
terrorists before they strike.
If we are going to condemn a man 
based on allegations, the allegations must 
be made public. As it stands, it looks like 
targeting another Islamic radical, one on 
a mission of peace. Without any public 
knowledge of his Crimes, can we really 
condemn a man? In light of United States 
policy of presumption of innocence be
fore guilt, have we become hypocrites for 
fear of injury to the body of America?
As a country, we have come to an ethi
cal turning point: do we discard our own 
code of ethics for a slightly greater sense 
of security, or do we evaluate the rami
fications of our actions, considering the 
resounding effects of our policies? Nei
ther choice is obviously preferable, but a 
choice must be made. 
Voter awareness and activism 
on campus vital to America
With only one week remaining before 
si the voter registration deadline slams shut 
the doors of participation in the rapidly 
9! approaching presidential election, the 
rj, campus communitys political scene has 
come to life. A multitude of organizations 
^ are taking great strides to increase politi
cal awareness and participation, and they 
are succeeding; the community is impres
sively engaged.
Student Government is making a com- mendable effort to get the campus corn
ai munity politically involved. Through 
Y initiatives such as supporting efforts to 
' register voters, arranging a public view3, ing and discussion of the first presidential 
1: debate on September 30 at 9 pm in Rangos 1, and hosting the Election Returns 
party on the evening of November 2 in 
Rangos, the representatives of the stu
dent body are acknowledging the impor
tance of widespread political participa, tion. Furthermore, Student Government 
is successfully striving to coordinate the 
array of organizations that might other
wise be working independently, unaware 
V of mutual goals and parallel initiatives.
With AB Lectures decision to bring 
Michael Moore to speak on campus, the 
Activities Board has arranged one of the 
most controversial election events of the 
semester. AB Films will be showing 8KdiJ
MLdMoa NUxx on September 30, as a build
up to Moores visit to CMU. The Activi
ties Boards contribution to the election 
related activates has the potential to be a 
potent catalyst of discussion.
Now is also a busy time for groups 
such as College Republicans and College 
Democrats, as they are working furiously 
to gain support for their candidates and
inform the populous about their view on 
their respective key issues. Last Thurs
day, the Undergraduate Student Senate 
officially recognized Right-On, a non
partisan conservative group planning on 
sponsoring forums for discussion to aug
ment the community political discourse.
Not only have Student Government 
and the various political organizations 
sprung into action, groups like S0H0, The 
Womens Center, Everybody VOTE, Stu
dent Pugwash, and the Co-op are contrib
uting to the communitys political energy 
with a host of events aimed at encour
aging individuals to acknowledge that 
they cannot afford to ignore the political 
process. Events such as open-mic nights, 
barbeques, and concerts endeavor to at
tract those people who might not already 
be engaged in the political process. These 
organizations have put special effort into 
reaching first-years, many of whom have 
just turned 18 years old and are eligible 
to vote but have not yet registered.
The vitality of todays on-campus polit
ical scene presents a stark contrast to the 
relative apathy of the campus towards 
politics three years ago, when Princeton 
Review ranked CMU one of the least po
litically active universities. The apparent 
growth in political activism is to be ap
plauded and valued by all; grassroots en
gagement is the only way to make our na
tions government more representative. 
On our universitys campus, an environ
ment rife with political diversity, popular 
participation in the political process is in
valuable, and it is the responsibility of ev
ery student to start taking, or continue to 
take, advantage of this rare opportunity 
we are being afforded.
THE TARTAN^Carnegie Meltons Student Newspaper Since 1QC/6
MARK EGERMAN 
TpM,yaoeM rnno,Mi
EDITORIAL BOARD
FRANKLIN WILLIAMS, 1KLKqoLq Tjoaui 
JIM PULS, vjeMiaotoLq 1KLKqMi 
ELI POUSSON, umo,t Tjoaui 
MEG RICHARDS, vttac Siujy,aouL 1qic
JAMES AUWAERTER, 8uiym Tjoaui 
ALEXANDRA KILDUFF, 'Mht Tjoaui 
J.T. TROLLMAN, Sduau Tjoaui
EDITORIAL STAFF
MICHELLE M. BOVA, SW9wup Tjoaui 
LIZZA McGREGOR, via Tjoaui 
ANNALISA SCHAEFER, FuttoMi GoaMiKiI Tjc 
NICK POZEK, FuttoMi FMtoqL Tjoaui 
SAAGAR PATEL, rL9oLM Tjoaui
^ CORINNE PASCALE, vttac sMo  CM,dc Tjc 
ERIN GOLDBERGER, vtta sluiat Tjc 
ERICA NRNBERG, vttac So99wup Tjc
GREG PRICHARD, Asst. umo,t Tjc
... BRADFORD L. YANKIVER, vttac Sduau Tjc
KRISTEN HWANG, 4ytoLMtt 1KLKqMi 
EVAN SUNDWICK, Siujy,aouL 1KLKqMi 
ARTHUR ODWYER, ulI 1KLKqMi 
ALEXANDER MESEGUER, GKIuya 1KLKqMi 
MARGARET CARTAYA, SMituLLM9 1KLKqMi 
RYA BARAZ, FKi.iuum 1KLKqMi 
KRISTINA WILTSEE, rmwyjtmKL
KANISHKA MAHESHWARI, vttac 4ytc 1qic
RAN LIU, Asst. vjeMiaotoLq 1qic 
WENYING WU, Asst. GKIuya 1qic
After reading Fraternities Beset With 
Challenges From All Sides [9/21/04], 
I want to make it clear to the campus 
as a whole that a large portion of the 
Greek community feels misrepresented 
by the opinions expressed in the article. 
Many Greeks appreciate the support we 
receive from the Office of Student Life 
and respect the hard work and dedica
tion of the staff and administration. 
The University administration has been 
a major asset to the Greek community. 
The administration supports its students 
and serves as an advocate for Carnegie 
Mellon Chapters when they are in bad 
standing with their nationals. They 
vouch for the positive contributions that 
individual chapters have made to the 
campus and surrounding community. If 
it were not for the Universitys advocacy 
and support, several chapters might no
longer have their charters.
The Orientation planners, both stu
dent and staff, do not look at Orientation 
as a way to reduce exposure to the 
Greek community for the incoming 
first-year class. Orientation has long 
been an effective method of introduc
ing over a thousand first-years, most 
living away from their parents for the 
first time, to the campus, surrounding 
city of Pittsburgh, and each other. The 
Orientation events were not extremely 
weak gatherings but a series of careful
ly planned lectures, activities, and social 
events designed to foster the formation 
of friendships and provide a foundation 
for dealing with the academic rigors 
and social pressures of the upcoming 
four years. Orientation does not hin
der Greek life; it provides first-years 
with a strong enough foundation here
at Carnegie Mellon to successfully make 
the crucial decisions of whether or not 
to join the Greek community and which 
house fits them best.
Finally, we must remember that there 
are 18 Greek chapters and four colonies 
on the Carnegie Mellon campus that are 
dedicated to cultivating friendships and 
developing leadership skills and aca
demic achievement, as well as providing 
service to the community. We represent 
a large and active segment of the com
munity and must broadcast our success
es, not place blame on the University for 
our perceived weaknesses.
Emily Sieg 
Senior
Psychology and Chemistry 
Delta Gamma
Activities Board should seek balance
James Auwaerter
What do Michael Moore, Ralph Nader, 
and A1 Gore have in common? How 
about Howard Zinn, Ted Rail, and Rich 
Mackin? Besides their uniformly liberal 
politics, they were all brought to campus 
over the last three years by Activities 
Board Political Speakers, funded by 
your student activities fee.
In the 2003-2004 school year, 
Activities Board Political Speakers 
received $16,585 in funding. Besides 
a bit spent on overhead, this money 
was used to bring speakers to campus. 
So far, so good. The problem is that 
the speakers who have been chosen to 
speak to CMU students represent only 
one political viewpoint. Over the last 
three years, the two most conservative 
people AB political speakers brought 
to CMU were Libertarian presidential 
candidate Ken Krawchuk and John 
Loftus, a federal prosecutor of Nazi war 
crimes. Meanwhile, the two most recent 
speakers  Seth Tobocman, an anti-war 
political cartoonist who came last week, 
and Robert Bryan, who is the lawyer for 
convicted cop-killer Mumia Abu-Jamal
and is coming later this week  are 
typical of the people whom Activities 
Board sponsors. While such speakers 
are necessary in order to foster intellec
tual diversity and growth, the other side 
of the political spectrums lack of repre
sentation points more towards indoctri
nation than starting a debate.
In excellent example: Mumia AbuJamal was convicted in 1982 for the mur
der of a police officer in Philadelphia. 
Robert Bryans blurb on the official 
Activities Board website, hhhcK,aoeoaoMt 
wuKijcuiqk states that his conviction was 
wrongful ([Abu-Jamal] was wrongfully 
sentenced for the shooting of a police 
officer.) This is not presented as an 
opinion of either Robert Bryan or the 
Activities Board, but as a fact. Obviously, 
the fact that Mr. Abu-Jamal is still in 
prison shows that the U.S. government 
does not believe that his sentence is 
wrongful. In fact, there is substantial 
evidence demonstrating that he did kill 
Officer Daniel Faulkner.
It does not appear that Activities 
Board Political Speakers is purpose
fully blocking out conservative speak
ers. Instead, they have fallen victim to 
groupthink. Without a voice to speak 
for bringing conservatives to campus, 
Activities Board allows itself to forget
that other viewpoints need to be brought 
here. Over three years, there should be 
more than two conservative speakers, 
and more should have been sought out. 
Other than the two people mentioned 
above  Ken Krawchuk and John Loftus 
 and another conservative, former 
Nixon speechwriter Ben Stein, no other 
conservatives were even looked at. 
Instead, a group like the Ruckus Society, 
who works on non-violent direct action 
techniques, is brought to CMU and 
funded by the Student Activities Fee.
All of the people I spoke to in differ
ent positions on the Activities Board, 
including the curfent chair of Activities 
Board and a past head of Activities 
Board Political Speakers, said that they 
made an effort in the past to bring 
another conservative speaker to campus 
(Ben Stein), and that they now intend 
to try to bring more. This is a positive 
step, but the problem is that these are 
only empty words without the actions to 
back them up. Hopefully, well see them 
follow through.
bKmMt vyhKMiaMi Tsensei@cmu.eduJ 
ot adM 8uiym Tjoauic ;M hM9,umMt K99 
iMtluLtow9M iMl9oMtk MtlM,oK99I adutM nium 
mMmwMit un v4 Su9oao,K9 slMK.Mit KLj 
GM,ayiMtc
WM lIMHWi 8f 1 IMP I I lite&2M
What will happen to Highlander?
A white elephant lumbers through 
East Campus, consuming valuable cam
pus resources. This beast detracts from 
our dining program and hinders the use 
of a vast space. The animal in question 
is Highlander, and its time the students 
went on a safari.
Ten years ago, Highlander Cafeteria 
was opened as an All-You-Can-Eat facil
ity that provided almost exclusive food 
service to the campus community. Un
fortunately, the construction costs of 
the Highlander left Dining Services with 
over three million dollars in debt. The 
University Center, opened in 1996, was 
capable of providing a more diverse and 
convenient selection of vendors, and as 
a result Highlander began to lose cus
tomers and was eventually closed. For 
a brief period, Highlander even hosted 
outside vendors such as Dunkin Donuts, 
but this venture was an abject failure. 
Today, Highlander houses Taste of India 
and the occasional campus event, but re
mains mostly empty.
Clearly, Highlander Cafe has a great 
deal of underused potential.
Dean of Student Affairs Michael Mur
phy has committed the administration 
to make a decision about the fate of the
Highlander by December. Although the 
administration will do its best to make a 
decision that meets the perceived needs 
of the student body, this process does 
not guarantee that students will be satis
fied with the result. The administration 
cannot know what we want until we 
have decided what we want. Students 
need to form a cohesive opinion of what 
they expect from the Highlander, and 
ensure that they communicate this opin
ion clearly.
So what do we want? Proposals for 
Highlander Cafe can be broadly classi
fied into those that seek to expand the 
Highlands role as a dining facility and 
those suggesting that the space be used 
for some other purpose. At first, con
tinuing to use Highlander as a dining 
location seems the most logical choice. 
Highlander is situated close to Donner, 
the Hill dorms, the sororities, and the 
athletic fields, making it a convenient 
location for many students. In addition, 
Highlander is already configured as a 
dining facility, so it can be inexpensively 
renovated for an expanded role in din
ing. However, the main drawback re
sults from a weakness of the dining sys
tem. As you may have noticed, Dining 
Services has slashed hours and closed 
locations to stave off a growing deficit.
This same deficit has decreased the flex
ibility, affordability, and convenience of 
food on this campus. Student participa
tion and customer volume have been 
insufficient to maintain all of our dining 
locations. The addition of a new dining 
hall would only exacerbate the problem. 
According to some key administrators, 
in order to guarantee the requisite cus
tomers for a profitable enterprise Dining 
Services would have to institute manda
tory participation. This new constraint 
would probably take the form of manda
tory meal plans for all students without 
kitchen facilities.
However, if were willing to pay the 
price, there are many great suggestions 
for how the Highlander could be used for 
dining. One involves turning the cafete
ria into a convenience and grocery store, 
with counters where students can grab 
a quick meal. Many people feel that the 
space should be used as a collaboration 
between Dining and another entity, such 
as Athletics or Health Services, to offer 
students healthier lifestyles. Another 
idea would transform the Highlander 
into a version of Whole Foods in min
iature, with fresh produce and health
conscious food options. Those students
See HIGHLANDER, page A9

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  SEPTEMBER 27, 2004
THE TARTAN
byLoui bsaKK 
Albert Cohen
bsaKKniosyib 
Adam C. Atkinson, Jeff Cullers, 
Khalid El-Arini, Ben Hackett, 
Luke Kryzanowski, Jonathan 
Mendelson, Laura Marie Palotie, 
Janet Park, Laura Sauer, James 
Tetlow, Katherine Thompson, 
Lucas Yiannatji
ais
Bum Lee, Bridget Lewis, Danielle 
Saudino, Laura Semesky, 
Vanessa Shyu
huMohb 
Josh Adas, Zachary Beard, Amy 
Bickerton, Jon Brodsky, Max 
Kaufmann, Tim Kelly, Ed Ryan, 
Yann Seznec, Lisa Troutman, 
Dinah Winnick
tTusu
Kayhan Ahmadi, Kevin Anderson, 
Jeff Cullers, John Davin, Kelly 
Duncan, Julie Frederking, Chang 
Glasgow, Natalie Gonzalez, 
Wenyao Ho, Eugene Hsia, 
Gautham Jothi, Robert Kaminski, 
Matt Lim, Matt Meurer, Shafeeq 
Sinnamohideen, Henry Tsai, 
Tiffany Yun
hutp
Christine Beaty, Kevin Chang, 
Catherine Fan, Adam Greenberg
,apues 
Jessi Abrahams, Ahmed 
Agwedicham, John Gross, 
Matthew Matuaniak
reLoui bsaKK 
Bryan Arsham, Alisha Bhagat, 
Christian DAndrea, Mandy 
Flynn, Andrew Francis, Isabel 
Gardocki, Jason Goldstein, Amy 
Johnson, Louisa Kinoshi, Kevin 
LaBuz, Brittany McCandless, 
Kevin Purtell, Alexander Su, Jill 
Wetzler, Ann Wootton
The Tartan is a student newspaper at Carnegie 
Mellon University, funded in part by the 
Student Activities Fee. It is a weekly publi
cation by students during the fall and spring 
semesters, printed by Valley News Dispatch, 
Inc. The Tartan is not an official publication 
of Carnegie Mellon University. The first issue 
is free; subsequent issues cost $0.50 at the 
discretion of The Tartan. Subscriptions are 
available on a per semester basis.
The Editorials appearing at the beginning of 
the opinion section are the official opinion of 
The Tartan Editorial Board. Columns, Editorial 
Cartoons, and Reviews are the opinions 
of their individual creators. Letters to the 
Editor are the opinions of their authors. 
Letters from within the University com
munity take precedence. Letters intended 
for publication must be signed and include 
the author's address and telephone number 
for verification; letters must not exceed 350 
words. Authors names may be withheld 
from publication upon request. The Tartan 
reserves the right to condense or reject any 
letter. Letters must be submitted by 5 pm on 
the Thursday before publication by mail or 
to forum@thetartan.org. The Tartan Editorial 
Staff reserves the right to withhold from 
publication any copy it deems unfit.
Comments about and suggestions for The 
Tartan and notices of errata should be d irected 
to The Tartans independent Ombudsman at 
ombudsman@thetartan.org.
 2004 The Tartan, all rights reserved. 
Library of Congress ISSN: 0890-3107
Office: University Center room 314 
Phone: (412) 268-2111 
Advertisements: (412) 268-2113 
Fax: (412) 268-1596 
Mail:
The Tartan / Box 1017
Carnegie Mellon University
Pittsburgh, PA 15289-1017 
E-mail: contact@thetartan.org
How should we use the Highlander space?
HIGHLANDER, from page A8'
yearning for their favorite massmarket mainstays have suggested 
that Highlander be opened to 
commercial vendors and chain 
restaurants. Students looking 
for a stronger sense of commu
nity have suggested Highlander 
be used as a communal All-YouCan-Eat facility to replace Schatz. 
Each of these ideas has its merits, 
and each of them has the poten
tial to enrich student life 
at Carnegie 
Mellon.
How
ever.
plan and make them financially 
viable.
If dining isnt the correct path 
for Highlander to follow, what 
other uses are possible for the 
space? Selling Highlander would 
allow Dining Services to reduce 
its debt, possibly eliminate the 
budget deficit, and focus resourc
es on improving 
existing food 
and facilities.
The major
ing may displace Campus Police, 
Faculty Senate, Academic Devel
opment, a host of student orga
nizations, and the performance 
space available in the drill deck. 
Could the Highlander be their 
new home?
A proposal to convert Danforth 
Lounge into a fitness room is mov
ing forward, but maybe the 
Highlander can better 
suit the athletics
could serve the needs of many 
groups. The possibilities are end
less, but they all seem to hold the 
promise of creating an engaging 
and useful student space. But to 
make any of these ideas viable, 
the financial difficulties for the 
purchase and renovation of this 
space will have to be addressed.
So how can you voice your 
opinion? Soon surveys will be 
taken to gauge how students feel 
about the issue. Participate in 
these surveys and en
courage your 
friends 
to particVanessa Shyu/Art Staff
cntical question
students must answer is whether 
they support these endeavors 
enough to subscribe to the meal
obstacle to 
alternative 
uses for High
lander is that the 
facility would need 
to be renovated to sup
port its new purpose.
In addition, some University de
partment would need to acquire 
the construction debts already in
curred by Dining. Regardless 
of this concern, enough stu
dent demand should prompt the 
administration to look into more 
aggressive financing options. The 
changing campus environment is 
making space a high premium. 
For example, the construction of 
a new computer science buildneeds
of the cam
pus community. Perhaps 
Entropy or the Bookstore could 
expand to Highlander and offer 
more products? Instead of trying 
to cram shows into the Under
ground and Skibo Coffeehouse 
or having Ballroom Dance fight 
for Rangos reservations, a dedi
cated student performance space
ipate 
as well. 
To take a 
more active#
role in forg
ing the path to 
a new Highlander, 
contact your repre 
sentatives in the Student Body 
Dining Committee and Student 
Senate.
bKI SyQKiK Cpuuj@cmu.eduJ ot K 
mKtaMit tayjMLa oL ,umlyaMi t,oJ
ML,M KLj tMieMt Kt adM ,dKoi un adM 
sayjMLa 4ujI FoLoLq ummoaaMMc
Moore deserves to speak at CMU
Adam C. Atkinson
Michael Moore is a national 
treasure. Now hear me out, all 
you Moore-haters  I have my 
issues with him too. Yes,. his 
bias is clear, but thats hardly 
incommensurable with being a 
documentary filmmaker. Yes, he 
exaggerates and draws tenuous 
connections, but the President 
has done the same, with far more 
devastating results, in convinc
ing America to go to war with 
Iraq. I particularly agree with the 
sentiment that he is too melo
dramatic for his own good, often 
undermining his points with a 
tendency to come off as sleazy 
and disingenuous. And hes pret
ty freaking fat.
But all of that misses the point, 
which is that Moore comes up 
with footage that nobody else 
can, says things others are afraid 
to say, and serves as perhaps the 
single liberal who can sling the 
mud just as effectively as the 
far more organized, professional 
mudslingers  the right wing. 
Essentially, Moore tells America 
what the useless liberal 
media wont even insinu
ate.
For example, it 
has been thorough
ly argued that in 
8KdiMLdMoa NUxx Moore 
portrays the BushSaudi business rela
tionship as more sinister 
than it truly is. This may 
or may not be true. But 
what shocked audiences was 
not the nature of the relation
ship, but rather its mere exis
tence. Most Americans had no 
idea Dubya and family were so 
tied to the Saudis, and thats the 
medias fault, plain and simple.
And what of the infamous 
footage of the President reading 
to children, dumbfounded, for 
nearly eight minutes after hear
ing the World Trade Center had 
been hit? Why hadnt we seen 
this before?! If Moore could get 
his hands on this, surely CNN 
 or, hell, even CBS  could as 
well. Oops! The media was too 
busy telling the White Houses 
story of a bold, decisive leader, 
speaking from a megaphone at 
Ground Zero in the photo-op of 
his life. If the media werent so 
busy trying to shake its liberal 
moniker, Moore wouldnt be so 
valuable. But they are, and he is.
While I can understand 
(though disagree with) a person 
who objects to Michael Moore 
cant understand 
someone who 
objects to his 
presence here
Hes the director of the high
est grossing documentary in film 
history. Hes fresh off a big win 
at Cannes and has high hopes for 
Oscar. And hes a flat-out celeb
rity, love him or hate him. So 
whats the argument? Its inap
propriate to have a speaker with 
strong opinions right before an 
election? That we ought to have 
someone from the other side to 
counter every extremist we invite 
to speak? Lets not treat our stu
dents like children. Im curious 
as to what ABs .lecturers and 
political speakers are paid to do, 
if inspiring debate, influencing
See MOORE GOOD, page A10
Moore should not be
A PERSONS OPINION
Compiled by Matt Lim
Robert Poon
First-year student 
CIT
I do think Americans have to know 
whats going on in Iraq.
Danielle Griswold
Sophomore
English and Psychology
They should show it. Americans 
should be informed; its going to be 
slanted, but people will be able to see 
that it is.
Anthony Buchanan
First-year student 
Information Systems
They should show it. Information 
should be given to the public so they 
can make up their minds for the elec'tion.
Maria Mangano
Junior
Art
I dont think theyre justified. I think 
an unbiased news source shouldnt be 
afraid to air a report. Its a Republican 
slant.
David Franks
First-year student 
Industrial Design
Theres enough propaganda going 
around; I think its their prerogative 
to show it or not.
brought to Carnegie Mellon
Ben Hackett
There are respectable liberals, 
but Michael Moore is not one of 
them. Mr. Moore is the wreckage 
left after socialist and anti-estab
lishment views collide. Far from 
pushing debate and progress, 
Moore enjoys tying loose connec
tions together into a web of halftruths and lies. His stances on 
many issues are conflicted by his 
knack for lining his own pockets 
i n search of political truths. 
The fact that Moore 
e nj oy s 
a wide 
audi
ence 
is
4* 
ites
tament 
tohisfilm- making 
prowess. 
His rhetoric 
and divisive 
nature are 
powerful 
and dang e r - 
V ousHis grip on reality is slipping, as 
anger replaces reason a tad bit 
more each day. The man is prop
ping up a party with no real mes
sage. Moore is the lefts answer 
to Michael Savage, and he does a 
fantastic job spewing his message 
all over the voters shoes.
Moore is on a 60-city whirlwind 
tour, stopping in 20 battleground 
states. This is a decisively politi
cal tour, with an admitted aim 
at influencing the November fed
eral elections. And here he comes, 
boys and girls, to a section of cam
pus near you.
I never object to debate and 
thought-provoking speech or 
written word. However, with 
one month until the election, 
the timing and motives should 
be addressed; Let us talk money. 
Moores upcoming speech is 
being brought to CMU by AB. The 
AB is a group that is fueled, in 
part (and mostly) by the student 
activities fee. The student activi
ties fee is a non-negotiable fee 
added on to a students tuition. 
Moore negotiated a confidential
ity agreement into the contract 
with AB. However, through a 
quick review of some recent facts, 
one can quickly uncover the range 
of this grievous waste of student 
money.
Moores asking price is believed 
to be around $40,000; he has 
settled mostly in the range of 
$30-$35,000. The latter figure 
is the estimated fee for bring
ing Moore here. For instance, at 
Cal State San Marcos, student 
government leaders have been 
soliciting local donors to raise 
money to bring Moore. Their goal 
is to collect between $50,000 and 
$55,000. A donation-based event
See MOORE BAD, page A10
CBS decided not-to air a 60 Minutes report on the reasons for going to war, because it would be 
inappropriate to air it so close to the election. We asked:
Is CBS justified in not airing a report on the war?

---------------------------------------------------

AoTHE TARTAN  SEPTEMBER 27, 2004
Political opportunists 
should not receive funds
MOORE BAD, from page A9
is perfectly fine, and if things were 
done properly, private donations 
should have been used to bring 
Moore here.
For those who will begin to 
remark that Moore is just another 
in a series of AB political speak
ers, this is simply untrue. While 
this is true when brought to its 
most basic level, Moore is here 
to influence the election, a stat
ed goal of his whirlwind politi
cal 60-city tour. To make things 
worse, the funding of a speech 
that is obviously intended to 
influence a federal election may 
be illegal. U.S. Code Section 431 
bans expenditures, defined as 
any purchase, payment, distri
bution, loan, advance, deposit, 
or gift of money or anything of 
value, made by any person for 
the purpose of influencing any 
election for Federal office when 
brought about by either non 
profit organizations, or for profit 
corporations.
If Moore were here to spur on 
debate and progress alone I would 
have no issue with his appearance 
on campus. However, this is a 
Kerry rally sponsored with your 
student activities money, not a 
political speaker as represented 
by AB.
The base excitement in the 
eyes of the AB representatives 
when they were cornered into 
announcing his scheduled arrival 
to campus was enough to inform
even the least involved that there 
is a special status to this particu
lar visit.
Continued ignorance of the 
conservative standpoint at CMU 
will push the moderates out of 
the debate and the students on 
the right out to the fringe. My 
respect for a left leaner with wellgrounded ideals and a passion for 
their positions will never waver. 
That said, the choice in inviting 
Moore here one month before the 
election, where he will stand on 
his soapbox to influence potential 
voters, is extraordinarily unpro
fessional. I commend AB on land
ing a celebrity on the level of 
Moore, but one must question 
the irresponsibility of setting up 
a Kerry rally on campus with stu
dent activities fee money.
Would Moore be here if this was 
not a swing state? Absolutely not. 
He is here to influence a federal 
election and this is exactly the rea
son that the student activities fee 
should not go towards filling his 
coffers. Some divisive words and 
almost 40 thousand dollars later, 
Moore may push members of a 
divided campus towards each oth
ers throats. On a campus where 
diversity pervades the thought 
and actions of every event, a little 
bit of diversity of thought would 
truly be appreciated.
4ML ;K,.Maa (T>hackett@.) ot K 
QyLoui oL tu,oK9 KLj jM,otouL t,oJ
ML,Mtc ;M K,,Mlat K99 iMtluLtow9M 
iMl9oMtc
Moores influence needed 
for diversity of thought
MOORE GOOD, from page A9
minds, and  most importantly 
 drawing some crowds are all so 
out of the question.
One of the most prominent 
and controversial political figures 
and auteurs in America is on a 
tour, and now hes coming here. 
Whats to complain about? AB has 
assured Student Senate they are 
in the process of finding political 
speakers from all shades of the 
political spectrum, and looking at 
the array of past speakers, theres 
plenty of reason to believe them. 
Besides, the fact that Moore is 
coming now has more to do 
with his tour schedule and less 
to do with any so-called liberal 
bias.
Im aware many conservativeminded students feel under-rep
resented at this school, but theres 
one solution to that, and its not 
protesting the presence of Moore 
on this campus: its becoming 
more involved in organizations 
like AB that make decisions like 
this. So protest Moore and what 
he stands for all you want. But to 
protest ABs inviting him here is 
just plain silly.
Ben, you talk about halftruths, and then you accuse AB
and University officials of bring
ing Moore here to influence the 
November election  an entire
ly unsubstantiated claim. If AB 
always supported the views of the 
speakers they brought, theyd be 
the ultimate flip-floppers. And 
a visit from someone who wants 
to influence the political hearts 
of our undergrads is nothing 
all that new. Many students on 
campus still remember A1 Gores 
campaign visit; and the decadesold pictures of Strom Thurmond 
being pelted with marshmallows 
will live in my heart forever.
So I think the claim of uncon
stitutionality is a bit over the top 
(can you say swift boats?) and 
not worth much discussion. Its 
time those who oppose Moore 
so much simply admit that its 
because they disagree with his 
political views and are frustrated 
by his effectiveness. Hate halftruths? Direct those feelings at 
our president, who created a few 
best-sellers of his own these past 
few years, WMDs and al Qaeda 
connections among them.
vjKm c va.oLtuL DKKa.oLtug 
ot K tMLoui oL adM TLq9otd jMlKiaJ
mMLaAt ,iMKaoeM hioaoLq liuqiKmc 
;M K,,Mlat K99 iMtluLtow9M iMl9oMt.
News
Forum
Sports
Pillbox
Scitech
Staff writer 
Production 
Layout 
Copy 
etc.
We've got what 
youre looking 
for.
e w s
! PizzasSmallMediumLargeX-Large
10"1 21 O/1 6
Better Ingredients. Better Pizza.
Oakland
2728 3aum 3lvd 
(412) 682-PAPA
7272
Order Online Today!
Look for Deals Exclusively at
www.PapqJohns.com
Now Accepting AMEX, Discover, Visa & Mastercard
Carryout & FREE Delivery
Additional Toppings 
TOPPINGS
$4.99 $7.99 $9.99 $11.99
$1.09 $1.29 $1.49 $1.79
Ham. Pepperoni. Sausage, Italian Sausage, 
Ground Beef, Bacon, Grilled Chicken, Anchovies, 
Mushrooms, Onions, Green Peppers, Ripe Black 
Olives, Tomatoes, Jalapeno Peppers, Banana 
Peppers, and Pineapple
Specially PizzasSmall
10
Medium
12
Large 
1 4
X Large 
1
Spinach Alfredo$8.99$10.99$12.99$14.99
Garden Deluxe$8.99$10.99$12.99$14.99
Grilled Chicken Club$9.99$12.99$14.99$16.99
Grilled Chicken Alfredo$9.99$12.99$14.99$16.99
Hawaiian Bacon BBQ$9.99$12.99$14.99$16.99
BBQ Chicken & Bacon$9.99$12.99$14.99$16.99
All The Meats$9.99$12.99$14.99$16.99
The Works$9.99$12.99$14.99$16.99
Papa's SidesCoca-Cola Brand Beverages
Wings (10 pc)$6.99Yz u0O Yzu02 GoaMi
Chickenstrips$5.99$1.25$3.99$2.29
Cheesesticks$4.99Coke, Diet Coke, Sprite,
Breadsticks$3.99Barqs Root Beer
Volume Pricing Available 
Contact Us for Your Next Campus Event
Customer Responsible for All Applicable Sales Tax
CAMPUS SPECIALS
Student Discount
Medium Z Top 
- Preadsticks
Only *7.99
ymjgcdl fUSfvSf. 
hIjzO A11M9
Student Discount
Medium 1 Top 
6-1 ZOoz Cokes
Only *7.99
ymjgcdl fUSfvSf. 
hIjzO A11Mh
Lunch for One
large 1 Top, 
Wings,  CocaCola ZOoz 4-Pack
Only *19.99
ymjgcdl fvSfvSf. 
hIjzO v111,n
Go here
to get there
Here's the deal: one price, no 
haggling, cash in your pocket for
more important things!
This "student discount" offers substantial 
savings on new Ford Motor Company 
vehicles based on set prices established 
by Ford's Employee Purchase Plan.
There's no catch - it's a unique offer, 
exclusive to select schools like yours.
Save even more when you apply the 
current national incentives available on 
the vehicle you select.
The best part? You get what you 
expect. The style and features you want. 
No-hassle dealer experience. A payment 
that's easy on your wallet and lifestyle.
It's how youget there!
T
A
R
T
A
N
i

---------------------------------------------------

It's the gift of a Starbucks Card
iWV2an?
i 4rTT
sliiifli
ilj
-I p il UUI!i5
CdC
WE&
Tl'Ji
xgNN
UM
owYrs
>-1
ESC
mi
i. THEA
2 fry
hfiog
-aris
Subscription, and it works like this:
Your parents set you up with a Starbucks 
Card that automatically reloads from 
their credit card, so you never have 
to be deprived of Starbucks.A beautiful thing.
N
ffr
mm
, R: \ '-< 
'fH
i1:lTCT 
a^2 
3 ITT
rag
no
f
r-f-'
o-aq
*:a4
Key phone call points;
I
Me
//Si N3
KHI
Wm
eKx,. .
Wmm
*'9nI<V-Vop ;f;v.
1 
1 , "The library lights drain my soul."
2 "I'm doing my thesis on coffee."
- "Coffee makes me think faster,
j  I could be done in 3 years."
4 "Like Thoreau said, 'The mass of men
lead lives of quiet desperation.'
Who wants that?"
-flj telftjfl 
ftjlW * ,<
,u Mfi < 
r . ' .pr? '/JiV*
www.starbucks.com/studvbreak.......................................................................................................................................dl'............................
ts3
M
, kf S 
Jr*i2:U^
m US'
SfStuu
9

---------------------------------------------------

Sports
37 September 2004THE TARTAN
Tartans defeat Franklin & Marshall Diplomats 31-14
Above: Senior Matt Dalka breaks away from the Franklin & Marshall Diplomats defensive backs T.J. Scanlon and J.C. Capote. Below: First-year running 
back Colby Whitman, who also had a 36-yard kickoff return in the first quarter, is blocked by Diplomat defensive back Tim Barry.
Matt Urn/Photo Staff
by Alexander Su 
& Kevin LaBuz
byLoui saKnnhioaMit
After losing two straight games, 
the Carnegie Mellon Tartans 
looked to rebound against the 
previously undefeated Franklin 
& Marshall Diplomats (3-0). 
However, they didnt just rebound 
. they soared.
The Tartans started the game 
with possession from their 20- 
yard line. First-year fullback 
Travis Sivek rushed for seven 
yards. This was followed by a 
five-yard sweep by junior run
ning back Jon Cakert, resulting 
in a first down. However, on the 
next play, a toss to Cakert, the 
Tartans were penalized for hold
ing, netting a 10-yard loss. The 
Tartans were unable to drive 20 
yards for the first down and were 
forced to punt.
The Diplomats took over with 
the ball on their own 45-yard 
line. Using their passing and run
ning game in six plays they were
able to drive the ball 55 yards and 
score a touchdown on a fourthand-three pass from senior 
quarterback Doug Hiltner to 
sophomore wide receiver Robert 
Donofrio.
One of the great disparities 
between the Tartans games has 
been their first-quarter perfor
mance this season. They have 
given up 23 points in the first 
quarter while only scoring four
teen. Contrast this with the third 
and fourth quarters, in which the 
Tartans have scored 41 points 
while their opponents have been 
shut out.
The ensuing possession showed 
that the Tartans are determined 
to improve upon their first quar
ter numbers. A 36-yard kickoff 
return by first year running back 
Colby Whitman brought the 
ball up to the Tartans 40-yard 
line. Senior quarterback Jarrod 
Highberger began the drive 
by completing a 13-yard playaction pass to Sivek, putting the 
Tartans in Diplomat territory. In
11 plays the Tartans were able to
drive the ball 60 yards. Seven of 
the eleven plays went to Sivek, 
including a four-yard touchdown 
run. A successful point-aftertouchdown kick by sophomore 
kicker Nathaniel Greenstein tied 
the game at 7-7.
After the kickoff return, the 
Diplomats took over at their own 
30 yard line. Hiltner looked good, 
connecting with sophomore run
ning back Curtis Varner for 24 
yards and sophomore running 
back Rick Dunlap for six yards. 
An effective short-passing game, 
along with a consistent running 
attack, produced a 46-yard drive 
which stalled at the Tartan 23- 
yard line. At fourth and one, 
Hiltner attempted a pass which 
was incomplete due largely in 
part to very tight Tartan pass cov
erage.
Hiltner may have  looked 
good, but Highberger looked 
better. Early in the second quar
ter Highberger connected with 
senior tight end Matthew Dalka 
on a brilliant play for 83 yards 
and a touchdown. Another suc
cessful extra point broke the tie, 
tilting the score in the Tartans 
favor, 14-7.
This play was the turning point 
of the game. For the next two and 
a half quarters the Tartans domi
nated the game both offensively 
and defensively. Highberger, who 
completed nine of 12 passes for 
251 yards, threw two touchdown 
passes: one for 26 yards to Cakert 
and the other for 31 yards to 
senior running back and team 
captain Ryan Neupaver. Our 
passing game came through pret
ty well and we got big plays out of 
it. It was critical to our success, 
said coach Rich Lackner.
The passing game, however, 
would not have been as effective 
had the Tartans not been able 
to establish an effective running 
game. The play action passes 
and the running were great. The 
offensive line did a great job 
and the running backs definitely 
opened up the passing game, 
said Highberger. While Sivek 
was the highlight of the running 
game  gaining 108 yards on 25 
carries and scoring a touchdown
 contributions on the ground 
came from a committee of run
ning backs, including first year 
running back Robert Gimson, 
who gained 46 yards on seven 
rushes, and first-year fullback 
Eric Butler, who rushed for 32 
yards. The offensive line gave up 
only one sack, and performed 
well in blocking for both rushing 
and passing.
Despite giving up a secondhalf touchdown  a 10-yard 
pass from Hiltner to junior wide 
receiver E.J. Learly in the fourth
quarter  the Carnegie Mellon 
defensive squad provided four, 
quarters of solid play. While the . 
defense forced two turnovers and 
once sacked Hiltner, perhaps the 
most notable aspect of their play V 
was their pass coverage. The sec- a 
ondary did an excellent job of 
coverage, specifically in the deep ; 
passing game. Sophomore defen- ; 
sive back Nathaniel Scarmazzr& 1broke up three passes, leading ; 
the Tartans in breaking up a total 
of seven. Senior defensive back^ o 
Adam Wirth and senior defensive < 
lineman Judson Kroh each had 
an interception.
Not turning the ball over | 
was crucial to the CMU victory. 
Carnegie Mellon had no turn
overs, as opposed to Franklin & 
Marshalls two. That is quite an- V; 
improvement over the five turn- ',: 
overs relinquished in last weeks 2[ 
game against Johns Hopkins. In 
the last two weeks, we had eleven ! 
turnovers which led to two losses.- 
It was vital for us not to turn the 
ball over. Our defense is remark
able, so we just need to make sure 
we dont turn the ball over, said 
Highberger.
Ultimately, Franklin and 
Marshall was simply no match 
for Carnegie Mellons torrent 
of rushes and passes. Coach 
Lackner was extremely pleased i: 
with the teams 31-14 victory. 
We got back to playing Carnegie 
Mellon football. We had sound 
defense, kicking and rushing. 
Thats exactly what we need to 
do to win games.
In the previous two games the1 
Tartans had yet to score a field 
goal, missing three attempts, two, 
of which occurred in a 16-14 
week-two loss against Grove City.: 
This week, however, Greenstein ' 
hit a 27-yard field goal. In the 1 
previous two weeks the Tartans... 
had committed 11 turnovers and 
had won zero games. This week 
however, the Tartans committed 
zero turnovers, forced three, and 
came away with the win.
The Tartans are now 2-2 this 
season, and despite the two loss
es, there is an air of optimism u 
throughout the team. Senio^f 
defensive back Adam Lovrovich 
said, The defense has played 
well all season. Everyone is play
ing well and doing their job. The 
team will look for its third win 
of the season next week when it 
faces Wesley College away.
This [win] puts us in a great 
position, said Highberger. We 
played well against Hopkins; we 
have a home game next week 
followed by a bye week. Were in 
good shape.
ball to junior forward Hallie Dumont, 
who scored the Tartans first goal of 
the game. Carnegie Mellon went into 
half time up 1-0.
The second half started with solid 
defending from the Tartan back line, 
as junior fullback Mollie Salpeter 
stopped a sure Frostburg chance on 
goal in the 52nd minute by making 
the save at the edge of the six-yard 
box. Carnegie Mellons second goal 
came shortly thereafter, as Dumont 
crossed to junior forward Kristin 
Bevilacqua-Linn, who alertly stayed 
onside, allowing her to receive the 
ball and hit it past the Bobcats goal
keeper, just inside the far post.
In the 78th minute, Monroe pre
served the shutout by stopping a 
Frostburg State free kick from 25 
yards out. With only a few minutes 
left in the game, a corner from soph
omore midfielder Lisa Pascoli found 
its way to the inside of the top cross
bar off of a Tartan header, but there 
would be no third goal on the night, 
and the home team went into the 
locker room victorious, 2-0.
We played really well. We espe
cially controlled the middle of the 
field, said Hughes, who had one 
assist that night.
Sophomore defender Andrea 
Maresca emphasized the teams 
aggressive play. We played well the 
whole game, not just in spurts. We 
were great in the air, and won almost 
every 50/50.
Tartans head coach Heather 
Kendra agreed, calling the game our 
best all-around performance, and Im 
very excited with the result. - 
It was our first good solid game 
for all ninety minutes. We were ready 
physically, and now were psyched to 
start UAA play in October, added 
Bevilacqua-Linn.
On Thursday the Tartans traveled
to Hiram, Ohio, to face the Hiram 
College Terriers. Although it was a 
3-0 win, the trip got off to a shaky 
start as the bus carrying the team 
got lost on its way to the Hiram 
Soccer Complex.
Whereas the trip could be 
described as uncertain, the Tartans 
were once again solid, as three 
first-half goals propelled them to 
another dominant victory over a 
non-conference opponent. The first 
goal was by sophomore midfielder 
Ashley McMakin, whose header 
found the back of the net after a 
pass from Pascoli. Later in the half, 
Hirams defense was not able to 
clear the ball, and Yaghoubi imme
diately took advantage, striking the 
ball straight into the upper ninety 
for the Tartans second goal. The 
final goal came as first-year fullback 
Amanda Roses well-positioned 
direct kick allowed junior forward 
Vanessa McClain-Duer to head the 
ball past Hirams goalkeeper.
Im happy with the way our 
backs are attacking. For instance, 
Amanda Rose is a defender and 
already has three assists on the 
year, said Kendra.
We had lots of headers on goal, 
and we hit the crossbar a lot, added 
McClain-Duer. The team is finally 
coming together. This was our sec
ond game in a row where we were 
able to show what were worth.
The Tartans have two home games 
this week, as they host Penn StateAltoona on Wednesday, September 
29, at 7:30 pm, and sixth-ranked 
Washington University (Mo.) on 
Sunday, October 3, at 11:00 am. 
Both games will be held at Gesling 
Stadium. The Washington University 
match will be their first against a 
UAA opponent this season.unang uu/rnoio Man
Junior forward Hallie Dumont tries to steal the ball away from her Frostburg State opponent.
Womens soccer record now at 5-0-2 after win against Frostburg State
by Khalid El-Arini
saKnnhioaMi
The Carnegie Mellon womens 
soccer team remained unbeaten this 
week after defeating Frostburg State 
University and Hiram College. With 
only one more non-conference game 
before University Athletic Association 
(UAA) play starts, the Tartans are sit
ting pretty atop a 5-0-2 record.
On Tuesday, September 21, 
Carnegie Mellon hosted Frostburg 
State at Gesling Stadium and defeat
ed them by a final score of 2-0, 
handing the Bobcats their first loss of 
the season. The Tartans were domi
nant throughout the game, control
ling the ball and flow of play for 
almost all 90 minutes. Great mid
field play along the flanks rendered 
Frostburgs defenders helpless as 
crosses poured into the box all night, 
while solid team defending prevent
ed the Bobcats from mounting much 
of an attack.
It was Frostburg State, however, 
that had the first chance on goal. 
In the seventh minute, a Frostburg 
forward got past the Tartans defense 
and took a shot from ten yards out. 
Senior goalkeeper and captain 
Megan Monroe made an acrobatic 
dive to her left to prevent an early 
disaster.
For the rest of the half, it was 
all Carnegie Mellon. In the fifteenth 
minute, junior midfielder Nadya 
Yaghoubi shook a defender along the 
right sideline and nailed a shot from 
eighteen yards out that went just left 
of the goal. In the 34th minute, soph
omore fullback Megan Hughes per-, 
fectly placed through ball allowed 
first-year forward Kasey Stever to 
draw Frostburgs goalkeeper out of 
I position. Stever then centered the L

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  SEPTEMBER 27, 2004
Washington 
University (MO) 
11:00 AM
,ehrum
rMNEWS
Administration
Intramural Director: Mike
Mastroianni, x8-2214 or
mmKg
Assistant Director: Mike
Grzywinski, x8-2214 or
ommo.Mg
Secretary: Amy'Kiryk, x8-2053 
or .oiI.g
IM Board President: Derek 
Ritchea, jioa,dMKg
Womens President: Kimberly 
Lackner .j9g
Important Dates
Wednesday, September 29  
Water Polo starts
Thursday, September 30  
Rosters for Soccer, Racquetball, 
Foosball, and Volleyball due by 
4:30 pm to the IM Office
Sunday, October 3  IM 
Bowling starts
Wednesday, October 6  IM 
board meeting at 12:30 pm in 
Gym Conference Room
Wednesday, October 6  IM 
Cross Country meet at 4:30 pm 
starting on the Cut
Thursday, October 7  Rosters 
due for Darts, Team Call Pool, 
and Doubles Table Tennis
Thursday, October 14 
Mandatory Rules Meeting for 
Soccer
Sports in Season
Flag Football  The sea
son started last week. Games 
are played Monday through 
Thursday nights and Sunday 
afternoons on the Stadium and 
IM Fields. Please stay off the 
fields during varsity sports prac
tices. Schedules are available in 
the IM Office.
Co-Rec Volleyball  Games 
started last week. The teams 
consist of a minimum 3 women 
and 3 men. There are 3 women 
on the court at all times. Games
are played at the UC Courts 
from 6:30 to 10:30 pm Monday 
through Thursday. Schedules 
are available in the IM Office. 
Tennis  Games started 
Wednesday. The tennis intra
mural teams are 2 singles play
ers and 1 doubles pair. There 
must be 4 players. Matches are 
played on the University Courts 
Monday through Thursday 
nights starting at 7 pm. Please 
wear proper athletic shoes, no 
boots or hard soled shoes. Stay 
off the courts during varsity 
practice. Schedules are available 
in the IM Office. In the event of 
rain, both teams must report a 
rain-out to the IM Office within 
24 hours.
Water Polo  Games are played 
in the dive well of the UC Pool 
Monday and Wednesday nights 
9-11 pm. There are 5 players in 
the pool at one time. Play will 
start Wednesday. Schedules are 
available in the IM Office. 
Bowling  Matches are played 
near campus on Sunday after
noons. There are 4 bowlers per 
team. Play will start Sunday. 
Schedules are available in 
the IM Office after noon on 
Tuesday.
Cross Country  The IM Cross 
Country meet will be held on 
Wednesday, October 6, starting 
on the Cut between the UC and 
Warner Hall. Course maps are 
available in the IM Office. It is a 
new course due to construction 
in Schenley Park.
Chess  Chess schedules can 
be picked up at the IM Office. 
Please report scores to the IM 
Office as due.
Tartan/Intramural Football 
Poll
Majors:
1. Steel City Bailers
2. Beta Eagles
3. SPIRIT
4. Return of Endzone Dancers
Intermediate:
1.KDRA
2. Fuzzy Wuzzies
3. Theta Xi
4. SPIRIT Football A
Minors:
1.KDRB
2. HBB Flying Ferries
3. KUPC Predators
4. Sig Ep Little Giants
5. DUI
Women:
1. Hoopers CAB
2. Fresh Meat
3. Hoopers B
4. SPIRIT Women Football
FOOTBALL
MENSSOCCER
(: i1;
Wesley 
College 
1:00 PMI
;
Washington | 
University (MO) 1 
1:30 PM 1
WOMENSSOCCER
MENSTENNIS
Gouchet College i Gouchef College 
T8A I TBA
VOLLEYBALL
UAA Round | UAA Round \ 
Robin#! 1 Robin #1 1 
lOflOAM | lOflOAM 1
WOMENSSt. Fands 
University 
TSACROSSCOUNTRY
Mens soccer remains undefeated
Womens volleyball second in tourneyMens XC wins invitational
Carnegie Mellon
A. Point Park Pioneer goalie waves the white flag as the Tartans score one of their six goals in a shut-out game last Tuesday.
by John Gross
GKIuya saKnn
The Carnegie Mellon mens varsity soccer 
team remains undefeated after competing 
against the Point Park Pioneers on Tuesday 
and the Oberlin Yeomen on Saturday. The 
Tartans dominated the Pioneers, 6-0, with 
an easy victory clinched by the end of the 
first half. Mens soccer struggled more on 
Saturday in Oberlin, without securing a lead 
for the win, or even scoring a single point, 
until the second half.
We get the job done early, said Tartan 
player Will Schlough. As soon as they stepped 
onto Gesling Stadiums turf, the Pioneers 
withstood a 90-minute pounding by the 
Tartans.
Within 20 minutes of the first half, a 
five-point margin was established between 
the Tartans and the Pioneers. Throughout 
that time, Jonathan Browne scored in the 
fourth minute assisted by James Steidel, with 
Steidel scoring at the 12th minute assisted 
by Mike Steffa. In the 13th minute, Sean 
Filipovitz scored an unassisted goal, followed 
by Andrew Park assisting Browne to a second 
goal in the 17th minute. By the end of the 
18th minute, Browne had scored again, and 
this time supporters were screaming hat 
trick from the stadium stands. Nearing the 
end of the 45th minute, Schlough scored, 
with Chris Watts assisting for the sixth and
final goal of the night. The Pioneers left 
Tartan territory 0-6-1, adding another loss 
to their losing streak.
A total of nine offside fouls were called 
against the Tartans; the Pioneers were caught 
offside only once. First-year forward Scott 
Kuppe, whom was responsible for five of 
these calls, said, I didnt realize that they 
were playing flat across the back until the 
fifth [offside] call.
In addition, Kuppe said, I think were shap
ing up well and coming together as a team. 
Theres still a lot we need to learn about play
ing yet. Well probably peak right before the 
conference. Kuppe is a back-up for Browne 
and Steidel, and had playing time this week 
because of the significant lead established by 
the upperclassmen.
Its a good start to the season, added soph
omore Andrew Park, but we havent been 
challenged yet. After the game, Schlough 
commented on his personal viewpoint, say
ing, We still need to work on a lot of stuff. 
We have a solid freshman class, said 
Kuppe about the upcoming players. Theyve 
made a visible level of improvement.
In regard to the possibly faulty and biased 
calls by the referees in the first half of the 
soccer game, Kuppe said, In the beginning it 
was one-sided, but the second half was a solid 
game.... No complaints here.
The second half turned out to be unevent
ful, when the Tartans changed their strategy 
to not scoring. For 45 minutes, the crowd
watched as the Tartans worked on their 
passing, trying to keep possession from the 
Pioneers, with no intent of scoring. The 
second half was more of a getting-time-offthe-clock strategy, said Park.
During the game Rebecca Hubert, the ath
letic trainer for this game, worked hard as stu
dents from both teams were injured. Tartan 
defenseman Steve Berei injured his foot, and 
a Pioneer suffered a leg injury as well.
Saturdays game was quite different from 
any game this season. The Tartans were down 
one point at halftime, and not only tied the 
game up but also forced a lead for the win by 
the end of the second half. In the 34th minute, 
Yeoman Sam Zackheim found the net with an 
assist from teammate Max Hellerman. Both 
Tartan goals were scored by Browne, who 
leads this season so far in goals scored. The 
Tartans left Ohio with a new record: 5-0. Due 
to his impeccable performance at the game 
played against Washington and Jefferson on 
September 15, midfielder Sean Filipovitz was 
named University Athletic Association Mens 
Soccer Athlete of the Week. Filipovitz has 
already tied his current record from last year; 
he leads the team in assists and is second 
leading in goal scoring.
On Wednesday, the Tartans will compete 
against the Penn State-Altoona Lions in an 
away game at the Lions stadium. On Sunday 
they return to Gesling Stadium to play the 
Washington University (Mo.) Bears.
Sept. 27 Sept. 28 Sept. 29 Sept. 30 October 1 October 2 October 3 MONDAY TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY
out John Carroll University 3-0.
On Saturday the women didnt 
start out as strong, losing 0-3 
to Capital University. However, 
they came back and defeat
ed Muskingum College 3-0. 
Head coach Julie Bigger said: 
We are now 13-1 and have had 
a great start. As of right now we 
are ranked approximately 26th in 
the UAA, however they only rank 
the top 25 teams.
At the end of the matches, 
the All-Tournament Team was 
announced; it included Chrissy 
Bartek of Carnegie Mellon
University, Anne Reed of Capital 
University, Tricia Jones of
Nazareth College, Jennifer Lilly, 
of Capital University, Catie Fisher 
of Carnegie Mellon University, 
and Sarah Kelley of John Carroll 
University.
The next match for the womens 
is round one of the 
UAA Round Robin
Tournament on October 2 and 
3, which Carnegie Mellon will 
be hosting. They will be playing 
Case Western Reserve University, 
University of Washington at St. 
Louis and Emory University (the 
last two of which are ranked 
nationally). Well definately be 
competitive with these teams and 
could possibly win, said Bigger.
Senior Matt Meurer places #2 overall; team #20 in nation
by Andea Gavue
byLoui saKnQhioaMi
The mens cross country team 
had a strong performance at the 
8K Allegheny Invitational this 
Saturday, winning the meet with 
57 points and beating Allegheny 
by 11 points and third-place fin
ishers Elizabethtown College by 
38 points. There were a total of 
19 teams. Senior Matt Meurer 
placed second overall with a 
time, of 26:05 and junior Nick 
End placed directly behind him
with a time of 26:10. Other 
top 25 runners were Mike 
Bridenbaugh (number 14), 
Geof Misek (number 15), Chris 
Carroll (number 23), and Mark 
Tressler in 24th.
This was the third meet of the 
year for the mens cross coun
try team. Although the team 
lost some of their strongest 
senior runners this past year, 
the freshmen are stepping up, 
says End. Other races such as 
the Spiked Shoe Invitational 
at Penn State, have had some 
impressive competition such
as Princeton, Columbia, and 
Duquesne. Last year the mens 
team placed 15th overall in 
Nationals. This year, their goals 
are to rank high in conference 
as well as make Nationals once 
again. Several of the runners, 
such as Dana Irrer, have been 
out due to minor injuries, but 
should be back by the teams 
next meet. The next race will be 
the Carnegie Mellon Invitational 
on October 9 at 10:30 am.
TjoauiAt 'uaMf 1Kaa 1MyiMi ot 
K mMmwMi un CdM CKiaKL lduau 
taKnnc
Sophomore setter Brea Carlock gets the ball ready for junior middle hitter Chrissy Bartek in the Carnegie 
Mellon Crossover on Saturday
Lizza McGregor/Art Editor
by Erin Goldberger
vttotaKLa sluiat Tjoaui
The Carnegie Mellon wom
ens volleyball team still stays 
strong after the Carnegie Mellon 
University Crossover on Friday, 
and Saturday coming in second 
to Capital University, followed 
by Muskingum College, Ithaca 
College, John Carroll University, 
RIT, Mount Union College and 
Nazareth College.
In their first match on 
Friday, the Tartans beat Mount 
Union College with a final score 
of 3-1. They moved on to shut

---------------------------------------------------

rt*itrCBr>'mist
was
us cows
WSSSTWU,!ya>*S5
rssass
identify the snack 
you cant get,
1 -vi I4 1!
:
Cheese s
26124262139
Press five different 
(but not necessarily 
distinct} buttons to be 
put into this formula: 
AxB+C-D+E, which 
will be calculated 
to get the snack 
you want.
1;------------------    -  - ~ .
 ' >-  -St ; :'?-;irre:f*.p; ' x v  ... v\- y. *|r;..
PART A
iwanBaa
2095104241
f m
20962732
1431
22491553
713
 
2714

---------------------------------------------------

Volume 4. Issue 4. 27 September 2004.
Y Li TdffDg

---------------------------------------------------

STAFF-V:- ' J'. ' "
w.ihet31i moo3hir :Mark Egerman
TUEUS3ES wD3tAr :Franklin WilliamsCover by Bum Lee
Y3HHLA. wD3tAr :Michelle M. BovaPhoto by Natalie Gonzalez
45535tUEt Y3HHLA. wD3tAr :Erica NrnbergThe Tartan
WAN3h5 wD3tAr :Eli PoussonBox 1017
45535tUEt WAN3h5 wD3tAr :Greg PrichardCarnegie Mellon University
YRAtA wD3tAr :J.T. TrollmanPittsburgh, PA 15289-1017
4rt wD3tAr :Lizza McGregorwww.thetartan.org
WAFI TUEUSir :Arthur ODwyer
YrADeht3AE TUEUSir :Evan Sundwick
CUIAet TUEUSir :Alexander Meseguer
Incredibles predicted to be... err... incredible. Page 8.
SeVVOTIN 27 G,pa,gO,A 2004.
CONTENTS.
ZI RAH:RiH TnfossAyonf*AM
The history behind the culture.
6o dMyyAoa* Co*fMleMnf
Locally friendly and farm fresh.
So diSAo uieo-M*f
Predictions for the silver screen.
1 o hoor dMyMDAno
The making of local edgy lit.
JohnEdwar
Sports and romance collide.
COMICKAZE
Transmetropolitan.
Gautham Jothi/Photo Staff
One of the Bens: Singer-songwriter Ben Lee sang on Friday in CMUs 
Highlander Caf. AB Coffeehouse hosted the show.

---------------------------------------------------

Phoney Fun
The Warhol explores Andys obsession with the telephone
The Andy Warhol Museum on the North Shore is 
an excellent getaway from the drudgery of cam
pus life, showcasing the work of one of the great
est artists of the late 20th century and a Carnegie 
Mellon alumnus.
Featuring selected works from throughout 
Warhols life, from his student years to right 
before his death in 1987, the museum offers a 
fresh breath of art that, although not up to the 
minute, still has all the trappings of moder
nity. The museum houses silkscreen portraits of 
Marilyn Monroe, the Rolling Stones Mick Jagger, 
and Elvis. It also contains a work titled Silver 
Clouds, a room full of helium-filled balloons 
moving with air currents created by fans which 
produces an ethereal, joyful atmosphere and 
interacts with the viewer.
On special exhibition now, BMK99I SduLMIf vLjI 
)Kidu9 KLj adM CM9MlduLM runs through October 
17. It captures Warhols life-long obsession with 
the telephone, from his recorded conversations 
to scenes in movies he directed that feature 
phone conversations.' The visitor is greeted with 
a glass-encased showcase of forty-four 60s-era 
telephones from Andy Warhol Studios (a.k.a. The 
Factory). Photographs of famous people using 
telephones adorn the walls, which themselves 
are painted with telephone numbers used at The 
Factory. In the corners stand television sets show
ing people on the phone; visitors can listen to the 
conversations with headphones. Most memorable 
is the interruption of a couples intimate moment 
with a phone call, in which the male gives no 
indication to the caller as his partner performs 
fellatio on him. Another most memorable display 
is a music video, The Cars Hello Again, which 
Warhol directed and in which he gave himself a 
minor role.
Also part of the exhibit are three phones on 
which the museum viewer can sit and listen in 
to Warhols taped conversations with contem
poraries of the day, such as an actress whom he 
advises to stop taking drugs so as to spruce up her 
acting career. The background on the exhibition 
offers an interesting history on the aura of the 
telephone: When Warhol was young it was still 
seen as a thing of glamour. Overall it is an apt 
exhibit featuring the phone call, Andy Warhols 
favorite form of communication.
The other current special exhibit features the
contemporary work that the Warhol Museum 
put on as a thoughtful response to current 
events. Titled ]L,uLeMLoMLa TeojML,Mf ]iKo SiotuL 
SduauqiKldt nium vwy $diKowk it is on display 
through November 28. When U.S. Army prison 
guards were found to have abused Iraqi prison
ers, it was front page news. A collection of such 
front pages from newspapers around the world 
at the time when the Abu Ghraib story broke 
accompanies the humiliating pictures taken 
by prison personnel responsible for the abuse. 
Although the images are available online, the 
museum confers a far more poignant atmosphere 
when viewing these indiscretions of American 
armed-service personnel, with documents from 
the investigation also on hand. Museum patrons 
are able to leave their thoughts on the incident in 
a guestbook beside the exhibit.
Truly a jewel of Pittsburghs many cultural per
formance and exhibit spaces, the Andy Warhol 
Museum should be visited by everyone who 
comes to Pittsburgh. Coming to the museum 
October 3 is vLjI )Kidu9At ComM Klty9Mtk a spe
cial exhibit that opens and displays boxes of com
muniques and artwork that Warhol began putting 
away starting in the mid-1970s. The entire con
tents, from receipts to fan mail to photographs 
and works of art, will be posted throughout the 
museum. Consistent with Warhols celebration of 
everyday life (Campbells soup cans, anybody?), 
this exhibit should offer patrons a glimpse into 
the life of this icon of art and modern culture.
Tart nswiwhomeMrg 
vchllesgcts
bhsotygt
IdDhohk
50 YEARS AGO 
September 28,1954
An editorial in The Tartan called for the consolidation of campus facilities into a 
single building. It noted that facilities common in student union buildings around 
the country were present but spread- thin around campus. It also noted that there 
was a notable lack of lounge space on campus since the demolition of the Carn
egie Inn to make room for the new dorm (Donner Hall). The piece also called for the 
construction of new library facilities. These recommendations were followed with 
the completion of the Skibo Student Center and Hunt Library in the early 1960s.
2,5 YEARS AGO 
September 25,1979
Kathleen Mulcahy, director of the CMU glassworking program, received a $10,000 fel
lowship from the National Endowment for the Arts in recognition of her outstand
ing work. Mulcahy was one of 1400 artists who applied for the grant and one of 
40 who received it. She started her glassworking career in a makeshift studio, a 
shed with a jury-rigged furnace. Mulcahy planned to use part of the money to pub
licize an exhibition of her work already planned for the Carnegie Museum of Art.
1 YEARS AGO 
September 25,1994
A new full-time Greek advisor position was created in the Residence Life Office due to 
the increasing involvement of Greek leaders. The position was created as an advocate 
for Greek life within the Universitys bureaucracy, which would allow Greek organiza
tions access to the RLOs resources and orientation events. The position was pre
viously part of Student Affairs, where its occupants could not devote enough time 
to the growing position. Janine Coppola was named the first RL0 Greek advisor.
5 YEARS AGO 
September 27,1999
Carnegie Mellon Police reported 32 bicycle thefts over the summer, a small in
crease over the previous year. They said that the bikes ranged in cost from $200 
to $6000, though it was likely the perpetrators were selling them for far less. The site 
with the most reported thefts was the rack outside Morewood Gardens, where six 
thefts were reported. Campus police strongly encouraged students to register bi
cycles with them, as none of the stolen bikes had been registered, and as a study had 
shown that thieves would not bother stealing bicycles with identification on them.
1 YEAR AGO 
September 29, 2003
Housing Services, newly in charge of laundry in their residences, announced a plan for 
updating the campus laundry facilities. The plan endorsed by housing officials was a 
flat fee for unlimited usage of the laundry facilities; Housing suggested that guaran
teed revenue for the machines owners would be more valuable than expected revenue 
from per-use payment. Other options offered as alternatives included all quarter-operated machines or machines that would run off a debit system such as CampusXpress.
204T HEAARNAESe ptmb rP4aa
Y3HHLA.: cn siFtiNLir c&&l:

---------------------------------------------------

Behind the culture of hip-hop
Duke professor leads panel to discuss musical impact on culture
African Studies professor and hip-hop connoisseur 
Mark Anthony Neal spoke in the University Center 
last Thursday evening. His lecture was titled Teach 
the Bourgeois and Rock the Boulevard: The Hip-Hop 
Intelligentsia. The title was inspired by one of the main 
focuses of his speech: politically, culturally, and academ
ically involved hip-hop artists who bring their organic 
intellect to the music they produce.
Neal is a professor of African and African-American 
Studies at Duke University and is the author of three 
books: )dKa adM 1yto, sKojk suy9 4KwoMtk and suLqt oL 
adM @MI un 49K,. GonMf v BdIadm KLj 49yMt 'KaouLc He is 
also a co-author and editor of CdKaAt adM buoLa*f CdM ;ol 
;ul sayjoMt BMKjMic Before his time at Duke, he was a 
professor at the University of Texas in Austin. He holds a 
doctorate in American Studies from the State University 
of New York at Buffalo.
Neal is concerned about todays music industry and its 
effects on young listeners. He finds that many inexpe
rienced hip-hop fans are unaware of the rich roots that 
formed the diverse and powerful genre. His first example 
was rapper Mos Def. Few people recognize his role as the 
lead in the Broadway show CuljuqU(LjMijuq (let alone 
his inspirational music), yet so many youthful followers 
of the media know Mos Def from a Nike commercial
 where his lyrics have been changed to target a larger 
audience. Other examples of organic intellectuals he 
gave included Muhammed Ali and Fela Kuti.
Neals lecture was followed by a question and answer 
session, where he was joined by four influencial mem
bers of Pittsburghs cultural scene. The panel included 
Terrance Hayes (a professor in the English depart
ment), Vema Sami (a local spoken-word artist with the 
Bridgespotters Collective), Kevin Amos (host of WRCTs 
radio show One to One, which airs on Sundays, 6 
am-noon), and Jamera (Co-Director of the Pittsburgh 
Hip Hop Initiative). The panel discussed the roles of 
feminism, racism, and other pertinent issues revolving 
around the contemporary music scene. They debated 
which methods of education could be instated in order 
for all students to learn the importance of early hip-hop 
culture and its effects on all genres of music today.
The five panelists referred to Neals concerns as the 
gap keeping audiences from the history that built a 
frame for hip-hop and its growth among all cultures. 
The amount of people who believe that big-time rap 
artists circumscribe the genre of hip-hop is extremely 
worrisome. These artists influence the youth to pursue 
careers in the music industry. However, many of these 
artists do not bother to pay homage to those who influ
enced them. They sometimes fail to focus on music pro
duction as an art and as an extension of freedom rather
than as an industry based on producing flashy videos, 
degrading women, and making millions. The role of 
contemporary artists involved in bettering the com
munity such as Talib Kweli, Mos Def, Dead Prez, Sarah 
Jones, and Rakim becomes foggy and underappreciated 
as highest record sales are often reflected by the most 
pimpin  music videos.
I asked Neal and the panel to suggest a few references 
for people to educate themselves and work toward clos
ing the gap. If you are interested in learning about the 
colorful history and wide spectrum of the hip-hop genre, 
here are a few vital websites and books to help you along 
the way:
49K,. 'uotM by Trisha Rose
CdKaAt adM buoLa*f CdM ;ol ;ul sayjoMt BMKjMi by Mark 
Anthony Neal and Murray Forman
hhhcjKeMIjc,um (The Hip Hop historians website! You 
can find music news, politics, poetry, new releases, and 
just about anything else here)
hhhctuy9lKaiu9c,umc
nhgcdgo ztomLtMt 
Gaogms vchllesgcts
Zo Pinfold/Photo Staff
The panel that formed for Thursdays Hip-Hop Intelligentsia lecture included 
Duke professor Mark Anthony Neal.
Thirteen
/AtEotMEhi YuPSfKSf hoE KpuPS9
When I was thirteen, I was the good son." Sex and drugs were definitely 
out, although my parents were ok with rock n roll. Evan Rachel Wood plays 
Tracy, a girl who tends towards the other extreme. So yes, drugs, belly pierc
ings, sex, smoking, swearing, petty crime, and she may have forgotten to 
make her bed too. Now, a warning for those perverts who would go to see 
a thirteen-year-old girl having sex. Wood was fifteen or sixteen when the 
movie was filmed, so while she's still jailbait, she isn't that young. Gah. 
This whole review makes me feel unclean.
Fahrenheit 9/11
/:-asMEhif OfKSf hoE Kp'
Ray Bradbury must be spinning in his grave. Oh, wait, hes not dead. This 
movie works to show the links between Saudi oil families and the Bush 
family, while also excoriating Bush for mistakes made on 9/11 and during 
the second Gulf War. It won the Palme d'Or at the Cannes Film Festival, and 
has been widely debated and discussed. Whether you like the film or hate 
it, you'll soon have a chance to tell Michael Moore what you think, when he 
comes to speak on October 6.
The Stepford Wives
/WsgEhif Of KSf hoE Kp'
Again, Hollywood shows its lack of originality by remaking the film of the 
samenamefrom 1975. Changing thefocus from thriller horror to dark com
edy could have made for an interesting movie, but they seemed to thiqk 
that they were much more clever than they really were. Look, were com
plicated, we added a homosexual couple where one partner gets changed! 
At least these movies confirm what I have said for years: Dont trust people 
from Connecticut.
Harry Potter & the Prisoner of 
Azkaban
/vhcasEhif Rf OfKSf hoE Kp'
Well, to give my one positive review of the week. I like the Harry Potter 
books, and the movies so far have been fairly faithful to them. Harry goes 
up against an escapee from the wizard prison Azkaban who is linked to his 
parents death. The only trouble that the new director, Alfonso Cuarn, runs 
into is that the books grow longer as the series continues, but the movie 
has to stay around the same length. He ends up cutting some of the stuff 
that I like the best, and his edgy filmmaking techniques break up the ac
tion for me. Of course, everyone else seemed to love it, so what do you do? 
Answer: Go see this movie.
City of God
/vaoEhif OfKSf hoE Kp'
This movie appears to be in Portuguese, which is a language I do not un
derstand. I will hope that it has subtitles when it comes here, because, as 
they say, dubbing is crap. Busca-P is the narrator, who is a little guy 
whos too weak and scared to make a good criminal. His strength is his 
intelligence, which leads him to become a photographer as he narrates the 
story of his friends and himself as they grow up in the City of God, the worst 
neighborhood in Rio de Janeiro at the time.
Y3HHLA.: cn siFtiNLir c&&l:

---------------------------------------------------

Flooding doesnt stop Yo La Tengo
Concert changes location to tour in support of Kerry
It was a great disappointment for fans to hear that Yo 
La Tengo had canceled their concert due to the recent 
flooding of Mr. Smalls Theatre this past Wednesday. But 
the disappointment quickly dissipated when Brave New 
World Records decided to host an intimate concert in 
their store Wednesday evening.
This is likely the only time that the mid-80s indie-rock 
band hailing from Hoboken, N.J., will ever play a show 
for 150 people at five dollars a head. The five-dollar 
cover ended up going to a flood relief fund for Mr. 
Smalls Theatre, which should be back in commission 
in the near future. Walking into the record store, one 
could browse the record collection as the band set up on 
the small platform configuring amps and microphones 
creating a relaxed and cozy ambience.
The concert was part of Yo La Tengos Cuyi un shoLq 
saKaMt au CiI KLj ;M9l budL @MiiI $Ma T9M,aMjk their goal 
being to remind fans of the importance of voting in the 
upcoming election. Each of the shows that they will 
be playing in Pennsylvania, Kentucky, Ohio, Michigan, 
Missouri, Tennessee, and North Carolina will.be a vari
ety show that includes guest musicians, singers and 
comedians. At their Pittsburgh concert on Wednesday, 
there were two additional singers and guitarists, making 
their trio into a quintet. Due to the inclusion of other art
ists, the new Yo La Tengo quintet played half covers and
half original songs. The band explained this to the audi
ence, apologizing for sounding more like a band practice 
than an actual concert. Still, they asked the audience 
for requests and chose several among the song names 
shouted out by avid fans, much to everyones delight.
Yo La Tengo has been a pillar of the indie rock scene since 
they released their album SKoLny9 in 1993, and continu
ing to their 2003 release of symmMi syLc Two of the trio
 Georgia and Ira  are married, which adds to their 
charm and feeling of being a personal band. Their music 
is reminiscent of live Velvet Underground, as Georgia 
Hubleys alto is not unlike Nicos and the lyrics are sooth
ingly wistful. Known for this common comparison, they 
were actually cast in the movie ] sdua vLjI )Kidu9 as the 
members of The Velvet Underground.
The band is known for their eclecticism, changing moods 
and styles with grace and ease. During their set, the transi
tion was made smoothly from their You Can Have it All to 
a cover song by Devo. Their artful noise rock is combined 
with upbeat, though melodic, popping sounds and often 
crooning vocals. The rhythms can be climactic and intense 
as the volume level fluctuates, creating a dramatic effect, 
but they also have songs characterized by pulsating and 
chanting. Other tunes are smooth and jazzy or intimately 
accompanied by maraca shakers as the sole instrument, 
followed with a sweet folksy tale of heartbreak.
Their maturity as a band is well communicated through 
emotionally beautiful songs that convey humanity not 
simply through their words but through their instrumen
tals as well. While their songs are about loneliness and 
pain, they still dont fit in the realm of depressing emo 
music, but rather pulsate with a vein of positivity.
The concert was a mix of the melancholy and the upbeat, 
complete with political ranting and humorous anec
dotes. In between songs, band leader Ira Kaplan would 
call out to the audience and ask us to consider who they 
want to lead our country, to think about whether or not 
they would like to be in war. He implored us to ponder 
these factors and have that sway our votes. The artists 
are fighting against the evils of apathy in this concert 
tour, pleading for participation in the upcoming elec
tionsbut participation in favor of their preferred can
didate, to be sure. Yet they sang sweet lyrics in between 
their shrill political cries, and the audience left the con
cert remembering the blissful beautiful songs and only a 
gentle reminder to vote on November 2.
IDiGm-oMmo 
Gaogms vchllesgcts
Metallica rocks Pittsburgh
Mellon Arena heard the noise of the kings of rock and Godsmack
As the titans of metal stepped to the stage to thunderous 
applause, it was apparent to all that Metallica had been 
sorely missed here in Pittsburgh.
Openers Godsmack serenaded the crowd with a number 
of radio hits, including Awake, Bad Religion, Keep 
Away, and Straight Out of Line. While the set was full 
of hard rock energy, it was obvious that the crowd, and 
the half-empty arena, was not here to see Godsmack. 
The Boston-based band did, however, put on a good 
show with the dueling tribal drums of Shannon Larkin 
and singer Sully Erna.
Six years had passed since Metallica had last visited, and 
once they hit the stage, they wasted no time in bring
ing out the artillery. In keeping with tradition, Ennio 
Morricones The Ecstasy of Gold kicked off the festivi
ties before Lars tapped out the intro to Blackened.
Segueing into Fuel off the Reload album, Metallica 
continued to play from a setlist top-heavy with older
favourites from BojM adM GoqdaLoLq and 1KtaMi un SyllMatc 
Not to say there werent any more of the much-maligned 
newer tunes. Frantic and St. Anger translated well 
live, although I Disappear (no, Lars didnt fly around 
this time. Sigh.) offthM 1ottouL ]mluttow9M Y soundtrack 
was misplaced for a set of this nature.
Fade to Black, Welcome Home Sanitarium, Battery, 
even Enter Sandman: All define the seminal sound that 
is Metallica, and all were greeted hungrily by the volatile 
teenager within every attendee. And that night, the 
teenager was let out in every individual I encountered. 
Whether it was the 40-year-old struggling to pump his 
fist or the slightly tipsy blondes that wandered around 
the outer banks of Mellon Arena, all were transported 
back to 88, at least for two and a half hours.
Unlike most Metal shows, but in what Im guessing is fast 
becoming the law of the Metalli-land, moshing gave way 
to respectable fist-pumping on the General Admission 
floor. Not that people didnt headbang; they just did so
politely. On stage, Metallica played with the raw fury 
required to do their songs any justice. To give every
one a chance at a good seat, the show was done in the 
round with a spinning stage so as to allow drummer Lars 
Ulrich to face every part of the venue as the other band 
members walked from one end of the stage to the other. 
As they ended their set, the band treated the audience 
with rarely heard songs such as Disposable Heroes, 
their cover version of the Killing Jokes The Wait, and 
a pyrotechnic show that made you feel as if the Mellon 
Arena was about to burst into flames. Metallica per
formed for over two hours and put on a better show than 
even the most hardened metal-heads could have asked 
for. Although'the band promised to return, Pittsburgh 
still got more than its share of high-energy heavy metal 
last week from Metallica.
Id bm-to 
B Isgtd H. Nsgm 
vtogms CgddVmU vchll
SeVVOTIN 27 G,pa,gO,A 2004.

---------------------------------------------------

Maggies makes vegetarian dining within reach
Diners beware, small portions make choosing the right dish critical
Stay ahead of the curve. Create the future.
At Citadel, we work every day to gain an edge in the global financial markets. With world-class analytics, risk 
management capability, state-of-the-art technology and a global footprint, we see what others cannot see.
Founded in 1990, Citadel is a world leader in alternative investments. Our 
team of more than 700 professionals excels in relative value, event-driven and fundamental investment strategies.
Determined, focused, and passionate about winning, our team members 
capitalize on their individual and collective expertise to identify and seize market opportunities. At Citadel, we work every day to gain an edge in the global financial markets.
ISIS!
Opportunities for university graduates include positions in:
 Information Technology
We welcome applications via your university's on-campus recruiting process.
To learn about Citadel, including a day in the life of new college hires, please visit our website at www.citadelgroup.com
Citadel is visiting your campus: 
INFO SESSION
TOMORROW"
September 28 Doherty Hall, R<
RESUME DROP DEADLINEWednesday, September :
CITADEL
m
artanTRAK
SeVVOTIN 27 G,pa,gO,A 2004.
What makes Maggies stand apart from other vegetarian 
establishments is its upscale atmosphere and culinary 
artistry that turns vegan food into fine dining. The 
interior of Maggies had a clean, crisp atmosphere, with 
ocean-blue walls and white linens. Bouquets of fresh 
flowers decorated every table. Each dish was presented 
beautifully, served with edible flowers arranged in a 
decorative and appealing way. Other diners in the res
taurant were equally impressed with the presentation; 
exclamations of It looks too good to eat! were heard 
coming from other tables.
mixture of hits or misses. As an appetizer the spinach 
artichoke dip with pita chips was decent, but nothing 
spectacular. The vegan in our group was happy with the 
fake cheese, but the others agreed that a better dip could 
be had elsewhere and for less money. The wasabi sprout 
spring rolls were a much better choice. Each spring roll 
was filled with a mixture of beans and sprouts, lending 
it an almost nutty flavor. The soup of the day, bean and 
basil, was filling but bland, and the group was indiffer
ent to it.
Maggies is a BYOB establishment, although they do 
serve a range of organic sodas as well as Am Sparkling 
Beverage. For those of you who have never tried Am: 
It is an excellent wine substitute for the non-alcoholic 
crowd. The menu at Maggies features soups, salads, 
a variety of entrees, and Maggies famous desserts. A 
popular complaint that people usually have about all
vegetarian restaurants is that the fake-meat products 
are not very good; why dont they serve some vegetar
ian foods that dont try to imitate a meat dish? Maggies
Gautham Jothi/Photo staff
acknowledges this concern and splits its menu into 
entrees containing mock meat, such as a tuna salad 
wrap; and dishes such as vegetable strudel, that are 
focused on presenting vegetarian fare that does not 
attempt to mimic meat.
The appetizers, as well as the rest of the meal, were a
Two entrees from each of the sections  mock meat and 
vegetable  were sampled. Although at first the fake 
meat sounds unappealing, at Maggies I strongly recom
mend it over the non-meat entrees. The two entrees 
ordered without meat imitation, the vegetable strudel 
and the sweet potato curry, fell flat. The strudel was so 
light-tasting that it was completely overpowered by its 
fake-cream-and-chive topping, and the curry seemed 
bland and lacked depth of flavor.

---------------------------------------------------

had been missing in Pittsburgh until recently: upscale 
vegetarian dining. Maggies provides vegetarians with 
the comfort of ordering whatever they please and pro
vides a gorgeous atmosphere in which to enjoy the food. 
Its worth paying a trip just to witness the sheer artistry 
Maggies puts into vegetarian food. However, when eat
ing at Maggies, remember to choose wisely. I found 
Maggies to have its share both of stellar dishes that cant 
be found anywhere else and of bland dishes that did not 
measure up.
jgsaeL ceLTLo 
dlishy noLffUysouy
Gautham Jothi/Photo Staff
Maggies Vegan Cheesecake
Provided by chef Jason Meckler 
Crust:
2 cups ground graham crackers 
3/4 cup melted soy margarine
Filling:
2 8-oz. tubs Tofutti Cream Cheese
1 package Mori Nu Firm Style tofu
1 cup sugar
1/4 cup unbleached white flour 
1/4 cup lemon juice
Mixed berries of your choice for topping
1. Preheat oven to 350F.
2. Mix crust ingredients and press into a 9- 
inch round glass pie pan.
3. Place in oven for 20 minutes to harden 
crust.
4. Process other ingredients until smooth 
and pour into crust.
5. Bake in preheated oven for 50 minutes 
to 1 hour, or until the top of cake is firm 
to touch. Cool and top with berries of your 
choice. Serves 8.
Note: Tofutti, tofu and soy margarine can be 
found at some Giant Eagles, the East End Food 
Co-op, McGinnis Sisters, and Whole Foods.
Gautham Jothi/Photo Staff
Maggies culinary skills really shone in the mock-meat 
entrees. The Buffalo chicken was spicy and flavorful; 
it was served with potatoes and fruit to cut the heat. I 
highly recommend the dish to those readers with buffalo-wing cravings. The false chicken had a similar taste 
and texture to the real thing, making the meat-free ver
sion of the dish as good as, if not better than, the origi
nal. The chicken kebabs, while on the expensive side at 
$15, were equally innovative and delicious. The chunks 
of fake poultry were skewered with leeks and grilled, 
resulting in a vegetarian comfort food reminiscent of 
roast chicken.
Maggies desserts, long known to CMU students through 
Skibo Coffeehouse, are available at the restaurant as well. 
I recommend the chocolate brownie, which was served 
warm. The brownie had a rich fudgy taste; its lack of eggs, 
butter, and milk was not noticeable. The soy ice cream 
was average and tasted more like flavored ice than like 
anything creamy. The peanut butter chocolate cake met 
with mostly positive reviews. Its peanut butter frosting 
was amazing  thick, sweet, and gooey  but the cake 
itself was a bit dry. Other desserts have been successful.
The major drawback of eating at Maggies is the cost. The 
food is expensive and the portion sizes are small. Simply 
ordering an entree at Maggies is not enough food for the 
average hungry student. Most will need dessert or an appe
tizer to fill up, and with prices at over $10 an entree, one 
ought to prepare to spend $20 per person for a dinner. The 
food is all organic and locally grown; so while it is expen
sive, it is important to keep in mind that the increased cost 
is largely due to the high quality of the food.
On the whole, the amount you enjoy Maggies is highly 
dependent on your current dining preferences. Omnivores 
will find that on many dishes Maggies cant compare to 
the meat-based originals. Vegetarians, organic foodies, 
and the veg-curious will find something in Maggies that
SeVVOTIN 27 G,pa,gO,A 2004.7

---------------------------------------------------

Movie Forecasts
Predictions for the future
Ladder 49
October 1
Forecast: Expect heavy downpours
So, if youve seen this preview - and unless you live in 
a cave, you have - you already know exactly what type 
of movie it is, and exactly what happens in the movie. A 
rookie (Joaquin Phoenix) joins the fire department, and 
bonds with the father-figure (John Travolta), gradually 
gets accepted by the guys, meets and starts a relation
ship with some blond chick, survives his first fire, then 
gets caught in a huge burning building at the end with 
little chance of hope.
Its the kind of movie everybodys seen at least once be
fore. But will he survive? Will John Travolta give up his 
life to save him? Who knows? Who cares? Now I know 
what youre thinking: But its about firefighters! Yes, I 
know, theyre courageous people who risk their lives and 
deserve our respect and admiration. Dont blame me, 
blame the producers. Damn you, Hollywood, damn you.
Team America: World Police
October 2004
Forecast: Sunny with slight chance of clouds
So, we have some random action/adventure movie fea
turing Kim Jong II fighting the CIA, or something like 
that, with lots of explosions and a tacky love subplot. And 
its all played by puppets. Puppets. But, its made by Trey 
Stone and Matt Parker, the creators of suyad SKi.c Those 
guys are funny. And they know how to put together a 
solidly'funny movie. That is, if you liked the suyad SKi. 
movie, or the highly underrated 4KtM.MawK99c This new 
one of theirs is getting a lot of people excited, and I think 
itll turn out well. I mean, Ive never seen a bad puppet 
movie, have you?
The Incr edibles
November 5 
Movie forecast: Sunny
Remember when we were kids, and Disney had those 
awesome animated movies, like CdM GouL @oLqk v9KjjoLk 
CdM Goaa9M 1MimKoj ... or really anything right up to ;MiJ
,y9Mtc And then they started doing this Pixar stuff, and all 
of the humor stopped being little kid humor and started 
being grown-up jokes, and innuendo, and the only oldschool animation-type movies left were really stretching 
it for ideas, like that one about the cows. This really has 
nothing to do with the forecast, I just had to get it off my 
chest. Love it or hate it, Pixars here to stay.
CdM ]L,iMjow9Mt looks like itll be a really good movie:
probably the best of its genre since CuI sauiIc I really wish 
I could say that its going to suck, and Disney should go 
back to the way it used to be," but, truth be told, they 
actually put a lot of effort into making these Pixar movies 
come out really well, from the animation to the writing. 
So, what the hell, enjoy.
National Treasure
November 19 
Forecast: Partly cloudy
This movie looks a little far-fetched, to say the least. Sup
posedly, theres some huge treasure from ancient Egypt 
that was hidden in America by the Founding Fathers, who 
put the map to said treasure on the back side of the Dec
laration of Independence. Interesting. And even though 
its lain quiet and secure for over 200 years, its suddenly 
a race against the clock between Nicholas Cage and some 
random bad guy. Hmmm.
Then again, its a Jerry Bruckheimer film, so I guess you 
cant expect too much in the way of plot or plausibility. 
But he always has the coolest special effects, doesnt he? 
And his movies are generally entertaining, even if critics 
want to bitch and moan about one-dimensional charac
ters, or false dialogue, whatever the hell that means. 
So, I guess if you want an exciting movie you dont have 
to think about too much, see it on the big screen. If youre 
one of those art-house people, stay home.
Ocean's 12
December 10
Forecast: Bright and sunny
Thats right, jerks. I saved the best for last: the sequel to 
one of the sweetest movies to come out in the past three 
years. This is going to be good: They have all of the cast 
members back from r,MKLAt xxk yes, all of them, plus 
Catherine Zeta-Jones, who is seriously hot. Andy Garcia, 
Brad Pitt, George Clooney, Julia Roberts, Matt Damon... 
the list goes on. All of them gave awesome performances 
in the last movie, and I see no reason that they wont do it 
again. But what impresses me the most, having seen the 
trailer for the new one, is its subtlety. It would have been 
easy for them to just show a bunch of action shots, and 
make this look like some ridiculous movie, kinda like they 
did with 1ottouL ]mluttow9M Yc Remember that one shot of 
Tom Cruise hanging from the cliff backwards? But thats 
not r,MKLAt style. I think theyre going to keep r,MKLAt xY 
classy, like the first one, and just let the writers and actors 
do their job. The only question for me is if I can wait two 
and a half months.
SlvLa .sLiiLos 
noLffUysouy
The Incredibles may be a Pixar movie, but its got potential.
oY3HHLA.: cn siFtiNLir c&&l:

---------------------------------------------------

Wimbledon wins over reviewer: 40-love
Nice serving of romance and sports
Courtesy of The Z Review
Cute romantic comedy depicts a romance between a young rising tennis star (Dunst, left) and an aging one (Bettany).
Romantic comedy and sports drama are both genres that 
rarely include an element of surprise. Fans of these films 
watch them to be entertained, inspired, and touched  
seldom to leave the theater scratching their heads. Even 
though the opponents of these two genres criticize them 
for retelling the same, marketable story over and over 
again, a sports drama or a romantic comedy can still hope 
to stand out from its generic counterparts. While sharp, 
inventive dialogue can save a romantic comedy, a sports 
story with a realistic feel can make a lasting impression 
on the audience.
)omw9MjuLk a love story set in the world of professional 
tennis, is a movie that attempts to successfully combine 
these two genres, with the help of the producers of GueM 
v,ayK99I and 8uyi )MjjoLqt KLj K 8yLMiK9c In addition 
to the producers possessing a magic touch for fresh ro
mantic comedy, the leads of )omw9MjuL entered grueling 
tennis training before filming began, in order to ensure a 
realistic feel for the films sport-loving audiences. Despite 
high initial expectations, the films dialogue never reach
es the level of GueM v,ayK99Ik 8uyi )MjjoLqt KLj K 8yLMiK9k 
or vwuya K 4uIk and its sports aspect rarely appears highly 
realistic. However, thanks to the talents of Paul Bettany 
and Kirsten Dunst, the leads of the film emerge as touch
ing portrayals even when the script falls flat.
Paul Bettany, previously seen in such Oscar-nominated 
films as v 4MKyaony9 1oLj and 1KtaMi KLj ummKLjMik 
is taking on the romantic lead for the first time. Bettany 
plays Peter Colt, a middle-aged British tennis player who, 
at his best, was ranked 11th in the world. Peters current 
rank is 119, and, having realized that the opportunities 
of fame and fortune are behind him, he is planning on 
retiring from tennis. He receives a wild card to the years 
Wimbledon tournament and decides to finish his career 
in style. Upon his arrival he accidentally stumbles into the 
hotel room of Lizzie Bradbury, an American tennis prod
igy played by Kirsten Dunst. Not surprisingly, sparks im
mediately fly between them, and Peter soon realizes that 
he has a thing or two to learn from this young spitfire. 
His newly found love ignites his passion for life, and Pe
ter begins to win matches, one after another. While Peter 
and Lizzies relationship does wonders for Peter, it begins 
to distract Lizzies disciplined quest for the Wimbledon 
title. Particularly Lizzies father (Sam Neill), who previ
ously had been able to maintain his daughters focus, is 
not pleased about Peters presence in her life.
Bettanys charm is undeniable, but completely uncon
ventional. With his toned-down handsomeness and quiet 
disposition, he is miles away from a typical Hollywood 
leading man. As Peter Colt, he radiates both vulnerability 
and mature intelligence. When he falls in love, his pos
ture changes and a new spark lights in his eyes, but he
still approaches his feelings without fussing over them, 
as if they are the most natural thing in the world. Unlike 
Lizzie, he is more than ready for love. Bettanys talent is 
found in his silent, subtle moments: moments when his 
eyes and fine facial movements are all that one needs to 
understand him. He is truly a fantastic,actor, and almost 
single-handedly lifts the screenplay miles beyond its ini
tial potential. He is not given fabulous lines to work with, 
but he makes the best of what he has been given.
Dunst, too, is an oft-underappreciated talent. Her char
acter could easily have been played with a one-dimensional, stereotypical approach, but Dunst manages to add 
a level of soul to Lizzie, giving the audience an impres
sion of a truly strong young woman. Dunst and Bettany 
represent the British and American cultures with grace, 
humor, and a degree of social awareness. Lizzies aggres
sive drive and temperament are clearly American, while 
Peters no-nonsense and at times overly apologetic nature 
reflects the European culture in competitive situations. 
Still, Bettanys and Dunsts performances avoid slipping 
into stereotypes.
The makers of )omw9MjuL wisely stay away from set
ting up an unnecessary chase between Peter and Lizzie. 
Aware of the fact that the audience will not be surprised 
by their romance, the filmmakers waste no time in bring
ing the two together. Although Peter is clearly the main 
character here, Lizzies journey is equally important. 
Never compromising her goals, she learns the meaning of
support and collaboration. She is a strong female charac
ter, one who grows to understand how to bring love and 
career to a symbiotic relationship.
The competitiveness of tennis clearly comes across in the 
film: from pushy parents to big egos, from money to the 
athletes internal anxieties. The silence of a tennis match 
is employed nicely to build tension, and intercutting cam
erawork is used to make this at times monotonous sport 
into a more fast-paced one. Overall, the film alternates 
enjoyably between the quiet, tense moments of tennis 
and the aggressive punch needed to succeed on the court. 
While )omw9MjuL does not show an entirely truthful de
piction of a tennis match, the filmmakers have brought 
the games onto the screen with artistry. The films focus 
is clearly on romance, and one watches realizing that the 
emphasis is not on the tennis matches.
)omw9MjuL is an excellently cast film that reflects a great 
deal of effort and thought. Its screenplay is unsurprising, 
but thanks to the actors excellent performances it man
ages to evoke an emotional reaction. This film is not quite 
at the level of many of the producers previous works. 
However, it still has a stamp of quality on it.
SLlyL ILghosu 
noLffUysouy
SeVVOTIN 27 G,pa,gO,A 2004.
0

---------------------------------------------------

ESPN loses its game
Popular sports network watered down with weak shows
There was a time, and this time was not long ago, when 
MTV was almost without question the best network on 
TV. It was so cool that my high school went to the trouble 
to block MTV, and MTV only, from their cable lineup. The 
concept of the station  videos all day!  was simple 
but effective, making it the default channel for millions 
of Americas youth. Naturally, the ratings-obsessed braintrust at MTV couldnt leave well enough alone, and have 
transformed their channel over the last five years into 
a completely unwatchable shell of its former self. Vid
eos and programs involving music (thats what the M 
stands for, kids) have been replaced wholesale with a ros
ter of absolutely horrible shows, nearly all of which are 
riding the crest of the reality TV craze. With all the time 
spent broadcasting meaningless drivel like 'Mh9IhMjtk 
iowtk Soml 1I BojMk CdM BMK9 )ui9jk BuKj By9Mtk and the 
unspeakable horrors uacBMK9 )ui9jUBuKj By9Mt dK99MLqMk 
actual 'music has become an afterthought. Mainstream 
videos have been relegated to the obscure time slots once 
reserved for the brilliant ;MKjwKLqMit 4K99 and xYz 1oLJ
yaMtc Its entirely unclear to me how MTV can even stage 
its annual Video Music Awards anymore, what with no 
one having seen any of the nominees (unless they get 
MTV2, which may be straying to the dark side as well).
This has been the situation for years, so why bother to 
bring it up now? Well, as my buddy Gopo observed the 
other day, the exact same thing may be happening to 
ESPN, the self-proclaimed Worldwide Leader in Sports. 
To be sure, the Realitymania virus hasnt spread nearly 
as far through ESPN as it did MTV, especially since tele
vised sporting events are the original reality shows, but 
we must stay alert, my friends. Like MTV once did with 
music, ESPN used to show almost exclusively sporting 
events both live and historical. To be fair, the network is 
still chock full of baseball, football, and basketball games, 
as well as a host of other sports. My concern is based on 
the pile of evidence suggesting that ESPN is taking a 
greater interest in the peripheral aspects of the sporting 
world, rather than the contests themselves.
First off, as long as Im complaining about replacing your 
bread-and-butter programming with lame shows, con
sider ESPNs foray into original programming. MTV did 
the same thing some time ago, but they at least got off 
on the right foot with classics like CdM saKaM and 4MKeot 
KLj 4yaa;MKjk and didnt let them drown out the rest 
of the viewing schedule. ESPN has given it a shot with 
their short-lived football series S9KImK.Mit and original 
movies featuring has-been actors playing sports scoun
drels like Bobby Knight (v sMKtuL uL adM 4ioL.) and Pete 
Rose (;ya9M). I cant say that Ive bothered to watch any 
of these gems, but I have to imagine that, despite ESPNs 
Hype Machine, they mostly have a passable, B-movie 
kind of quality to them. When you think about it though, 
theres really no need for fictional dramatization of the
sporting world, considering how wacky it already is. Be
tween the Kobe trial, Frank Franciscos WWF moment, 
and Ray Lewis and Terrell Owens never-ending competi
tion to earn the title of Stupidest Person in Pro Sports, it 
seems to me that ESPN should leave juicy dramas about 
shady characters to the Lifetime network.
The most telling sign that ESPN may be headed down 
a path to Reality Land, though, is its increased focus on 
things peripheral to the games, like the human inter
est stories and rampant overanalysis that drive ESPNs 
sporting-news-oriented programs these days. sluiatML 
aMik ESPNs still-solid flagship program, has a definite 
watered-down feel to it, with way too many 4MdoLj adM 
1yto,style investigative pieces and other silliness. Much 
more annoying than recent editions of sluiatMLaMi is the 
once-great 4KtMwK99 CuLoqdak ESPNs nightly take on Major 
League Baseball. Am I the only one who tunes into high
light shows to see, you know, highlights, rather than listen 
to pundits and ex-ballplayers yak? Its gotten to the point 
where, in an effort to cram as much content into an epi
sode as possible, 4KtMwK99 CuLoqda will often skip over ma
jor professional games entirely. Of course, when youre 
devoting 80 percent of your time to in-depth analysis of 
everything Red Sox and Yankees (full disclosure: I hate 
both of these teams), its hard to find space for that Brewers-Pirates matchup, even though, believe it or not, there 
are people who live in places other than Boston and New 
York. Its simply inexcusable that a show thats uL9I Kwuya 
wKtMwK99 cant squeeze something about all 15 games into 
their hour on the air. Again, it shows that ESPN is wrong
ly shifting its focus away from the actual games.
Then, theres the insufferable World Series of Poker. I 
dont know why people watch poker on TV, I dont know 
why people play poker, and I dont really want to know. 
The point is, this is a sports network, and I expect to see 
a little athletic competition, not a bunch of guys wearing 
sunglasses indoors and playing cards. Besides, if I really 
wanted to watch televised poker (I dont) I could just flip 
to one of the other 47 channels broadcasting poker tour
naments. I think ESPN came full circle when last week, 
during sluiatMLaMik they aired a special report on... 
TsS' aM9MeotoLq lu.Mic I think it put my brain in a feedback 
loop.
Ill let ESPN off the hook for this week, because they still 
have a lot of great programming, but Im deathly afraid 
that all networks are headed to an even more realityheavy state of existence. The reasons, of course, are basic 
economics: reality series are cheap to produce, and they 
get big ratings. The latter I dont understand, because Im 
really in the dark as to just who is watching them. Its kind 
of like the band Creed  theyve sold millions of records, 
but no one you know seems to own one. Who is watch
ing these awful shows? Who is volunteering to appear on
them? Why?
There may .also be a non-economic reason for the reality 
boom as well (yes, there are occasionally non-economic 
reasons in the business world): creative burnout. Sit
coms have been played out since sMoLnM9j got out of the 
game, and dramas are clearly stagnating as well. Each of 
the major nets has, apparently, a combination of doctor 
shows and lawyer/crime shows that make up its entire 
dramatic output. CBS may, for conveniences sake, want 
to go ahead and change their name to CSI. As a journal
ist, I wish I could use this space to suggest a way to get 
away from the reality kick and get some good shows back 
on (other than watching Comedy Central), but the near 
future doesnt look very promising. Im looking forward 
to the backlash, though. Its gonna be great.
jizO byLivsa 
dlishy noLffUysouy
Tjoaui2t 'uaMf CdM BMj sup KiM qiMKac
Courtesy ol ESPN
Sportscenterwent strongly downhill when they stooped to telivising 
poker, like everyone else.1SeVVOTIN 27 G,pa,gO,A 2004.

---------------------------------------------------

CLASSIFIEDS.
FOR RENT OR SALE.
Mi casa es su casa. 2 bedroorrvapartment in charming 1903 
house, short block to Murray Avenue shops, buses. AC, off 
street parking, sparking clean, nice porch, big equipped 
kitchen laundry, small pets allowed, can be furnished, nego
tiable lease. $625 plus utilities; References 412.422.5189
4 bedroom apartment $950 per month plus gas and electric, 
free laundry, walk to campus, new carpets, huge room. 
412.681.1138 or qeKypgmoLjtlioLqc,um
Help needed around house. Short walk from campus. Up 
to 10 hours per week. Flexible. 412.802.7070. Please leave 
message.
3 bedroom 2 bath Squirrel Hill apartment. Convenient to 
universities, busway, parkway, and shopping. $800 plus 
utilities. 412.421.3051
Squirrel Hill house for rent. New paint, equipped kitchen, 
washer & dryer, dishwasher, garage. Attic for office and 
basement for storage. See pictures on the web at 
mhct.iMLatc,um? near CMU. $1195+. 412.657.5387
OPPORTUNITIES.
Hiring cashiers, pepperoni roll makers, and town criers in 
Pittsburgh's Strip District. 1,@MMt Bu,.t 4iMKj umlKLI wI 
Mancini^s Bakery. Flexible hours, great pay. 412.765.3545
son. 5 day weeks. 3-4 hours per day. $12 per house. 
412.420.3350
All cash vending route for sale. 50 high traffic locations. 
$36,000 annual income. Cost $5000.800.568.1392 or hhhc 
eMLjoLqadKahui.tc ,um
Spring Break 2005. Travel with STS, Americas #1 Student 
Tour Operator to Jamaica, Cancn, Acapulco, Bahamas and 
Florida. Now hiring on-campus reps. Call for group dis
counts. Information/Reservations 800.648.4849 or 
hhhctataiKeM9c,umc
Recruiting 18-24 year old males and females lo serve as 
peer educators who will be trained to present sexuality edu
cation programs to teens throughout Allegheny County. No 
previous experience necessary. Paid training. Day/evening/ 
weekend hours available. Possible internship opportunities. 
Excellent opportunity to gain health education experience. 
Public speaking skills desired. Valid Pa. drivers license pre
ferred. For more information regarding this position please 
call 412.288.9960 or 412.288.2140 and ask for Angelica.
$450 Group Fundraiser 
Scheduling Bonus
4 hours of your groups time PLUS our free (yes, free) fund
raising solutions EQUALS $l,000-$2,000 in earnings for 
your group. Call TODAY for a $450 bonus when you schedule 
your non-sales fundraiser with CampusFundraiser. Contact 
CampusFundraiser, 888.923.3238, or visit hhhc,Kmlyt 
nyLjiKotMic,um
Wanted: Female secretary and companion to elderly per- CAMPUS REPS! SPRING BREAKERS!
Earn $$ or Discount for all the HOT Spring Break trips!
NEW  Las Vegas! Puerto Vallarta! 28 Years of Student 
Travel TWO Free Trips 15 travelers 
866.SPRINGBREAK (866.777.4642) 
hhhcytKtlioLqwiMK.c,um
Page (part-time)
Customer Services Department 
Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh
High school diploma or equivalent. Candidate should pos
sess a can-do attitude while performing a variety of general 
and specific library duties as assigned. Job assignments will 
require candidates to work both independently and as part of 
a team. Work required physical ability to bend, stoop, reach, 
stand for prolonged periods of time, push heavy book trucks 
and lift books, boxes, tools, or equipment. 3 to 60 pounds. 
The work environment can be warm and dusty. 20 hours/ 
week including evenings and weekends . $6.01/hour. Send 
to: Human Resources, 4400 Forbes Avenue, Pgh., PA 15213 
or e-mail ,KiMMitg,KmMqoM9owiKiIcuiqc E0E.
Work-at-home mom seeks someone to watch her delightful 
3-year-old daughter for 2-3 hours a day, 2-4 mornings or af
ternoons a week in my Sq. Hill home, very close to CMU. Since 
Mom is home, no diapering or feeding is required. Wage and 
hours are flexible. Spanish language skills are a plus, but not 
necessary. Please call 412.421.1389 for more information.
Start your own Fraternity! Zeta Beta Tau is looking for men to 
start a new Chapter. If you are interested in academic sucess, 
a chance to network and an opportunity to make friends in 
a non-pledging Brotherhood, e-mail 0wag0waLKaouLK9cuiq or 
call 800.431.9674.
CLASSIFIED ADS
are available at the following 
weekly rates:
1-20 words 
21-50 words 
51-80 words
$10$12
$15
Ads for Carnegie Mellon students and for 
services to the community are gratis at 
The Tartans discretion.
To place an ad, send the full text of the ad 
and the advertisers name, address, and 
phone number to:
 E-mail: advertising@thetartan.org
 Postal mail:
Box 1017
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh PA 15289-1017 
Fax: 412.268.1596
Ads will be billed after each run.
All classified ads must be submitted by
5 pm on the Thursday before publication.
$4.99 Large uuVMlN fHES Pound
ONUNE, ONLY ATONLY
campusfooci.com
May require minimum for delivery. No substitutions. Adcfitional charge for loppings or extras 
See website for details.
SeVVOTIN 27 G,pa,gO,A 2004.11

---------------------------------------------------

The Deek Incident
An uncommon magazine, with plenty of controversy to spare
Incident to the newstands (The Greed Incident bears 
only the title Greed on its cover, but is labeled as the for
mer title in the table of contents.) To describe the issues, 
beyond Strouds apt explanation, is to detail certain grit. 
Letters to the editor are partially falsified with some hard
ly believable ones mixed in. Same with the news shorts. 
The content is all over the place. In the most recent issue, 
on greed, the features range from an accidental binge on 
Combos to a description of a fast and dirty love affair be
tween a sex fiend named Billy Jane and her unaffected 
lover.
Natalie Gonzalez/Photo Staff
Boxes of the current issue of FMM. Magazine fill one corner of the "production office where the majority of the publication is created each month.
Some think getting an idea of the magazine world means 
flipping through the pages of HuqyMc Others think that 
S9KIwuI is just wild enough to be fun and has good ar
ticles, damn it! Local literature scene? Well, maybe a few 
will respond with an inquisitive, You mean, oaI SKlMi?6 
Sufficiently far away from the content of the average 
magazine, regardless of circulation range, is FMM.c Thats 
not to say that a gritty source of indiscriminate prose can
not be found, but with Sy9l no longer circulating, it may 
be difficult to find such locally. FMM.k however, remains 
in Pittsburgh as a newly spread form of, as they say it, 
elegant madness.
To explain what that means, however, takes a bit more 
work. The two-word slogan of this monthly publication 
was created to quickly sum up the essence of the maga
zine. Nate Boguszewski is officially titled the Nonsense 
Manager; however, he could more easily be described as 
the designer. He commented, Stroud and I came up with 
the phrase elegant madness a few months back to ex
plain our feel. Its a little bit insane as a style  but it has 
poise. And you're thinking, That doesnt explain shit. 
Give it a minute or two. You should know the brief and 
only momentarily boring history: FMM. was born at the 
University of Pittsburgh a few years ago, when the Chief 
(assumed Editor-in-Chief, the aforementioned Stroud) 
attended the school. However, one would not discover 
this from their websites About section. Currently it is 
created and published independently.
The magazine as a whole cannot be described simply. Its 
chief, Matt Stroud (referred to in most cases by his last
name only) summed up his description of its general feel 
in a few sentences. He wrote, FMM. is satire ... a new, 
unique collection each month that holds up human vices 
and follies to make light of (or ridicule) a specific topic. Its 
sideways social commentary, satirical art, elegant mad
ness, the new sarcasm.... Add to that some music, book 
and movie reviews, stir in some event listings, fake news 
and off-color jokes, and youve got yourself some FMM.6 
Rather than try to expand much further, this enigma will 
simply be left alone. Once enlightenment has come, read 
on.
The madness, no matter how graceful, did not drop from 
the ether. The beginning of FMM. was with Stroud, of 
course, but he describes the process by which this, and 
other works of the imagination, become real. Some 
person has an idea  normally a vague one  for some
thing theyd like to create. He or she consults with a few 
friends and trusted associates, who help the idea grow. 
Then more people get involved; the idea grows more; and 
sooner or later, the idea either dies or takes off. Those 
associates who came in to help, in this case, are for the 
most part still on the staff. There are writers who over 
the past year or so of FMM.At publication beyond its days at 
Pitt have been published frequently, but the articles are 
taken from submissions. Because the writers change from 
month to month, each issue has a slightly different feel.
The issues themselves have a unique format and vibe. 
Each issue is themed in a particular way, generally titled 
The [insert theme herej Incident." Most recently, FMM. 
has brought The Manifesto Incident and The Greed
SeVVOTIN 27 G,pa,gO,A 2004.
It may take an average person three times to read through 
one of the feature articles and understand their meaning; 
it may take even longer to decipher the often obscured 
text. Terrible layout? Terrible printing? Neither. It is in
tentional, at least to some extent. Boguszewski described 
a detailed version of what goes into the design of FMM. 
(or sometimes, the lack thereof). [The art] needs to 
breathe. FMM. isnt an art and literature magazine. Its 
an art-literature magazine. It needs to be organic on all 
levels. I just want to avoid the fucking Helvetica school 
style of design thats sweeping every god-damned thing 
out there. Its dull. Its boring. Its overdone. I like getting 
my hands in the dirt. I dont want FMM. to feel designed, 
Borguszewski rants.
Natane uonzaiez/moto 5tan
Deek Magazine's founders claim that they get their creativity from ... interest
ing sources. We have absolutely no idea what they mean.

---------------------------------------------------

Y
The layout occurs ML mKttM it seems, as Borguszewski 
gives a humorous description of how he, with the help 
of two other staff members, puts together the magazine, 
The way it usually works is that Stroud dumps the copy 
off with me, says go nuts, I do, then we argue about my 
sanity and I pass out some material to the designers, 
Doug and Bob. I feel like once a month Stroud fucks me 
real good, gets me pregnant, and then takes the child I 
carried for him and puts it on the streets.
The text may be a bit hard to decipher at times (a trend 
which has seemed to decrease as the magazine has got
ten older), but the artistic elements are often striking. A 
single feature from The Manifesto Incident contained 
a simple picture of a restroom-style man and woman, as 
well as a detailed two-page-wide drawing. Yet the odd 
quality of the sometimes beautiful, sometimes basic art 
fits with the rest of the magazines feel. Like Stroud says 
about the word content, its meant to provoke thought. 
Being illegible isnt enough. Everybody can do illegible.
I like making things damn near incomprehensible. That 
way the magazine challenges Internet porn. We become 
interactive. Were something that you can engage your 
brain in, said Borguszewski.
The magazine is thought-provoking, but many might 
question how it came past its original floundering stages 
into its present form. Even the website says that it was 
pretty much a pipe-dream until October 2003. So with 
a little less than a year of serious production, how did 
this reach its present state? Stroud commented on some 
of the motivation to work on this magazine, Personal 
pride, ambition, a need to connect to something, inspi
ration, boredom. The options for decent local literature 
are expanding, but theyre still pretty slim. Others at the 
organization, such as Minister of Propaganda Benja
min Edwards, have a much more basic, although ideal
ized, view of why they work for FMM.c This is going to 
sound really romanticized. More than anything, its got 
to be seeing my name bold-typed in the margin on the 
first page.
Note that FMM. also is intending to be funny. Not bath
room humor (usually) or knock-knock-joke funny, but 
darker depths of humor. Stroud specified that the maga
zine is supposed to be thought-provoking before funny 
but he also added that If we can be funny KLj thoughtprovoking, thats an added bonus, that we often hit and 
sometimes dont. When asked to come up with the 
source for the magazines humor he responded, Its uh, 
its normally from the alcohol. I think.
Borguszewski described an example of the magazines 
dark humor, We had 'The Self-Destruct Incident.' All 
stories of self-destructive behavior. So I thought lets de
stroy the magazine.... We put a staple through the mid
dle of the issue. The reader would immediately tear the
cover page when they tried to open the magazine. The 
magazine destroyed itself.
That is not all, however. Paging through this particular 
magazine is an exercise in the bizarre. Gender-bending 
issues galore; sexual tones take on a decidedly cruel, 
even frightening, feel. Deep in sarcasm, something is be
ing said about society. It is more often than not shock
ing in content, not just for the older crowd, but even for 
someone of the college age, who when reading will often 
encounter extremely offensive content. The intent is to 
shock and appall, but many will consider it over-the-top.
A large part of their goals are specific to the Pittsburgh 
area. Stroud describes part of the magazines intent as 
Exposure, but even that serves a purpose: I want people 
to realize that Pittsburgh is festering with young artists 
and writers and scientists and philosophers and design
ers and musicians and more, who have the capability of 
turning this towns modern culture into something not 
so straightforward. Like it or hate it (and many do send 
hate mail, as Stroud detailed in a portion of the inter
SeVVOTIN 27 G,pa,gO,A 2004.
view) the group of consistent writers, editors, and others 
believes they are contributing to the local community.
So there is the FMM. short list, the mixture of dark hu
mor, honesty mixed with a fictional style, the people who 
bring it all together at some point every month. Dont ask 
for more. Just pick it up, then put it down, then pick it up 
again. Youll figure it out.
TjoauiAt 'uaMf ]n Iuy hKLa au 9MKiL muiM Kwuya FMM. mKqKJ
0oLMk adMI dKeM K qMLMiK99I yLoLnuimKaoeMk website Dhhhc 
jMM.mKqK0oLMc,um.) Cu MmKo9 KLj wuadMi adMm ,uLaK,a 
words@deekmagazine.com.
Asveuggu A1 ch9L 
IsggChx Nzsohy
Natalie Gonzalez/Photo Staff
Much like their publication, FMMA's work processes are damn near incomprehensible. If only Pillbox production were as stimulating.

---------------------------------------------------

comics.
[
THE MODERN WEB 
SURFATHLON
INDOOR FREESTYLE 
FOOD HOARDING-orbetievablei ' 
he* goirg for 
more aaifoi ^
> har eotethorpe 
,ta clicking- at World
AVOID EYE CONTACT AT 
ALL COST.FEED OFF THE RESULTS 
OF PERSON WHO ACTUAL
LY DID WC?.
HOROSCOPES.
BY DINAH WINNICK
ARIES (March 21 - April 19): And today, some news from our 
favorite gas giant, and I dont mean your dog or your roommate. This 
week, Jupiter will continue to move in its predictable orbit around 
the sun, maintaining its regular relationships to the universes con
stellations and other heavenly bodies. Thus, tomorrow will be a mod
erately auspicious day for eating deep-fried foods, including (but not 
limited to) fried zucchini, onion rings, and veggie tempura.
TAURUS (April 20 - May 20): Making the grass greener on your side by spray-painting 
the dead, brown lawn is generally not a good idea, according to students of karma, 
leading horticulturists, and my Aunt Bette, who incidentally tried it a few years 
back.
GEMINI (May 21 - June 21): Thirty-two days without enough food, sleep, or relaxed 
human interaction can start to make a person just a tad irritable.
CANCER (June 22 - July 22): Having big hair does not indicate having a large brain. 
The scholarship selection committee will recognize this in addition to your terrible 
sense of style.
LEO (July 23 - August 22): After letting it sit lonely in your closet for three months, 
you will finally decide to re-donate that fun yellow Naugahyde jacket you found at a 
South Side thrift shop, continuing the low-to-moderate-quality-secondhand-goodsmarket cycle of charity.
VIRGO (August 23 - September 22): Your calcium-fortified orange juice will not give 
you nice, strong orange teeth. Not this week and not ever.
LIBRA (September 23 - October 23): Hot chocolate may not be the most effective 
choice for a liquid weight loss diet, but your quality of life will improve dramatically, 
nearly matching that of the average Swiss after just eight short weeks.
SCORPIO (October 24- November 21): This afternoon, a 15-foot-long furry insect will 
fly overhead, grasp you in its sticky paws, and carry you away to the Jurassic period. 
There you will reunite with the cast of 4-10 72 :95 47E:, abandoned by thoughtless TV 
producers two decades ago while on location in 200 Million BC, to return only when 
Lulu the two-headed monster and Torchy the Dimetrodon make a comeback.
SAGITTARIUS (November 22 - December 21): You will reconsider biking to campus 
tomorrow when your 250-pound body-builder roommate reports being blown over in 
the wind and pinned to the ground by violent air currents, until being rescued by a 
thoughtful 275-pound body-builder on more sensible roller skates.
CAPRICORN (December 22 - January 19): You will commit the embarrassing e-mail 
faux pas of replying back to an entire.d-list instead of one individual as intended. This 
will leave you ostracized from your online social community and force you to finally 
beat your self-induced xenophobia and interact face-to-face with people in the real, 
physical world.
AQUARIUS (January 20 - February 18): Next Thursday, you will find that while insects 
are edible, and chocolate-covered insects are even easier to stomach, chocolate-cov
ered chocolate may still be the best way to go.
PISCES (February 19 - March 20): You will soon begin building a spacecraft in 
your apartment buildings parking lot to see firsthand if Pluto really is that small, or 
if it just seems like it because its so far away. Unfortunately, high fuel prices and 
construction costs will postpone the project until you manage to find an indepen
dently wealthy, sufficiently eccentric patron who has not already invested a fortune in 
another Carnegie Mellon endeavor.
Jetpack Animals by Zachary Beard
IF SOMEONE MUST 60, 
SACRIFICE THE YOUN&ESTl 
MEMBER OF THE LAB.
tk-8- by Jorge Cham
2004 SUMMER GRAD OLYMPIC GAMES WORLD CLASS COMPETITIVE PROCRASTINATION
THE LONG YAWN
GROUP MEETING SURVIVAL SKILLSOUTWIT. OUTPLAY. OUTSQUIRM. HOW TO AVOID BEING 
CALLED ON AT THE WEEKLY LAB MEETING.
SeVVOTIN 27 G,pa,gO,A 2004.
Tu khhC1001hP Fo&so-f 
MffonfAin fi Hoe*inNEXT TO YOU.
that's an iriteres-vJhat do kprof. ernilh... YOU
nnn-jk54qghR-4q

---------------------------------------------------

Xword.
wLru nehUa CO YuLg neOLr
jvyhaakhUi
1To tell the__1__a Crowd
2You have a secret?2Nickolodeons physical test
4Follower of show3Dynastic battle
5Win, 25 across or__4The Wheel might make you one
7)du__wM K mo99ouLKoiM?6G]'$r host
10Might be smashed on 49oLj FKaM8Glamorous button-pusher
11Chance to win9What is__?
12Press your__13Former MTV star
14Canadian card show15Millionaire aid
15Problem with interactive games16Richest game in America
17Emotionless GoL. host18Original 8Myj host
18Primary show time22Break__
19Not your friend23Game show winnings
2080s Nick hit24Mr. Flemming was Trebeks predeces
21Humoroussor
23$100,00027Buy of the century
25See 5 Across29Mr. Trebek
26Monotonous host30TV Network
28Canine__canine31Psycho 8Myj host
32)uhnKwqiuueI host Fox
33/__a deal
34Original SIiKmoj host
31^ Afe WQs VKT b&ph e^lorif^ 
cxI'Wrivx-Vive-^iS.i^ oj*A ocicie^ Hdc I'pO M 3Ildl 0z'' kddN( 
4nmHc e)(Bl kld2 a)aF3)5dgPL2b
PoWUFsMgg
2 by 4! by Aaron Kablack
LIqdcIl l0I5gdl kQHd lkz 0kQ0 4kgN5cdz 
Qcd 5d0cgqdz0QN 0 c&jNQ4d jc5I40gHg0EPittsburgh Stories by Eli Pousson
IK \36^ -fre AuiHori-^ Jv Alle^ey 
Cout^y beops% r<gykxr opercx+ioh
oil beg, thNCAa.f NA55 WhSrk
snJc \$\- (3-.Wx nG ( 4Sa0zkd- Y. 
diPFeretvV s+ruc+ores oM >?
^"Vo ( opercxV'MNo^ 2CT5. "TRey
;glg V r&J gC())Dcd; 3Ildl (
VcorjvKx\e.\y, budo^coH at M-h sfek 
oM Ve^eroA -&e VusSy^tetA Wi-irK <^b^Ax-Vic Service cob- HS> you e^py Vu5e^ ^ cobWV
3we Ou^lWvNSXTo^r ^3^1302Z or g^) 
<x4- 5cx iecur-kfrrSi-V(gg ^feJtsooo^oufiS- com
SeVVOTIN 27 G,pa,gO,A 2004.15
2()04 A.Kablack Special Thanks to Josh Hoi/.

---------------------------------------------------

comics
duckbar
Weekly inspiration from the ominously brooding pond
And so Fernando went about poisoning his archnemesis 
Rogelio. He knew he could not get Rogelio to eat the bread 
crumbs by themselves. For some reason, Rogelio never \ 
partook in the tiny delicacies that the old women threw 
into the pond. Fernando imagined it was because Rogelio 
thought himself too good for mere bread crumbs. Rogelio 
is not too good for these bread crumbs, Fernando chuckled to himself as he collected the 
crumbs thrown out by one particular old hag - the witch Fernando suspected of poison
ing him. He did this for days and days, secretly tucking the bread crumbs under his wing 
instead of gobbling them up as he would normally do. Eventually he had enough bread 
crumbs to constitute what he believed to be a sizable dosage of poison. But how would 
he disguise the bread crumbs so that Rogelio would eat them?
Comics Trivia 
Question:
Last week's answer:
The Katzenjammer Kids is 
the longest running comic 
strip, published since 1897.
O nkQ0 Ql 0kd zQqd 
C 0kd ldcgdl C v1/fl 
Qz5 Yfl jdql 3E 8z 
MQc:Igl Qz5 gNNIl0cQ0d5 
3E xcQ^E xQ0 Qc0gl0 
[dc]d TdccgqQz
ncg0d 
,umo,tgadMaKiaKLcuiq 
Qz5 ]d0 Q 4kQz4d 0 gz 
Q jQll 0 0kgl dd&$l a@ 
KgNql*
fk <*\Ai 16 a
I -H'le kn<7*^\ of
roboi o\AAtr^\f
This worm 
vO/iL TAKE Yov 
cK TM.
ur Liw
mM Srn PotS Aortu
5otf PgO&l&HS ?
UJiLL... Mfiree 
MO T P*0/*>5, M0 -IK 
~AwnoV4nCs*
V
fofi th .flr 
Tim, STof ASKiM Fof TeST 
WSuJfis I TocK
YefifiS <ho!
MC0M oq 
A JEK 
IN rH Fvfurt
2,0,^h TfNYSEpuKAACoA \/slRiT:TjtfYEPaK(J0HoTMAJL-(>M
rSo uiTUOT THOSE
O&ST/qCLBS, rou'cc
4M F/?e to Posi/e
Yoi/ C-fuSH
SeVVOTIN 27 G,pa,gO,A 2004.
lyler and Fred by Greg Prichard
11:45 by Ed Ryan
Whatever by Tim Kelly
My Utfle Pony Glue Factory
Cup O Joe by Matt Siegel
ACK To vo* 
THE 6VY You 
LIKC- IS TUB 
SAM- A& Yol/ 
A (L fiJOUJ.
V
Tiny Sepuku by tinysepuku@hotmail.com
cj> Q Zaoi
DEAfr TiwY,
I HAVE A CRUSH OM A 6^Y AT
M/ SCW00)f Ay. There A F*/
p^3fi(.MS MES DflTi^ Someone I 
fcwow, HEs MY FfllEUl),
A PEW YSAP-S Ot-6C TAM*/ M.
e-hc M-mm;kg r DOI5
CAHAbft
TK TiME RFaflE 
H MT T 
6tL You
V
Artt) /? Yol/ AND H 8cam 
FfllEfiJPS.

---------------------------------------------------

WTF! by Josh Atlas and Jon Brodsky
7yr^rr//v
u dpymsp Tvp.bysp iBizHub7^p6rtUT.
BT IT'S 77//W ,*',a wifi ine itmzco06cTDouirY^.Jf5 f2*7^5 ftWCT/O^S see u vcrr a vis/ou of rm UV'KMBoFzeiATMSWrs Thai makss op t?k ouveese ?All Hail the Jon by Jon Samuels
I'm thinking of a 
number between 
1 and 1,000.
Se8 if you can guess it
Wrong. 
You lose.
To 8/N6 AOt/P rf HAS A i'tLMT 
FFCT, rWS /t p Ll< T'AInMVi GevriK i<' nxeme...
.:: -mu ' moa ama? rr /w *'ts
Entrenpeneur by Bill Bernstein
Pretty shells! 
How much are 
these ones?
I SALEFANCYPAINTEDSEASHELLSinSIGHT by Jimi OkelanaQuarters 
only, please!'19 rounds of 
Mortal Kombat 3!!
Gap by Alberto AlmarzaWHAT MAKES 
you SAY THAT,?I'D GUESS 
COMPUTER SCIENCEWHAT'S HIS PEALF
.O, XWa
^r-^Vianc, \*Xl V-oCsT S/(j<LT^- P(Uo t'w worWIofc,^ 
^o<V?v\ V xVvowgQUb()(d U.f
CALL IT A SIXTH SCENT.<HTMLXBXU> W33CI l*OOCI </UX/BX/HTML>
g Write to comics@thetartan.org!
SeVVOTIN 27 G,pa,gO,A 2004.17

---------------------------------------------------

comics.
Comickaze:
Technofetishism, Mediapolitik, and the British Invasion in Transmetropolitan
CiKLtmMaiulu9oaKL shocked comic readers and creators alike 
with readership that hasnt been seen since the bygone days 
of the early 90s. Its gargantuan success has turned a psy
chedelic pair of sunglasses and Spider Jerusalems bald, 
tattooed head into the symbols of a new British invasion 
of writers in mainstream comics. CiKLtmMaiulu9oaKL creator 
Warren Ellis, alongside fellow outstanding English chaps 
like Peter Milligan and Grant Morrison, have brought a 
breath of fresh air into the mainstream, while still appeal
ing to underground readers as effectively as their 80s pre
decessors, Alan Moore and Neil Gaiman.
CiKLtmMak as its come to be known, takes place in a future 
where, according to Ellis, the procession of technology 
has enabled people to become as weird as they can man
age. The main character, Spider Jerusalem, is a violently 
unstable journalist whos forced to abandon a hermit-like 
existence in the mountains out west to return to The City 
to make good on a publishing contract with a Shit-eating 
Whorehopper he signed years ago for three books. Back in 
the city, he becomes embroiled in covering a nightmarish 
Presidential election and a subsequent political conspiracy.
The story uses science fiction ideas and speculative technol
ogy in a most perverse fashion. Ellis nonchalantly throws 
out creepy permutations of technology that fall somewhere 
between Max Headroom and a Dali painting. Rampant 
cross-species genetic modification, clouds of ambient 
-Mianites, and cyberpunk-caliber communication devices 
are all employed by what appears to be a body-modders 
fetishist sensibility. Spiders reaction to this is a weird mix 
of fascination and disgust, frequently both lambasting and 
partaking of the exotic fruits of postmodern science (espe
cially the illegal varieties).
Ellis also comments on the excessive specialization and 
compartmentalization of information available through 
the mass media, by pushing it to ludicrous extremes in 
The City. Almost all information is delivered through RSSaggregator-style newsfeeds and infobursts that systemically 
deliver insipid uniformity while creating the illusion of 
variety. The story explores how far one insane journalist 
will have to go in order to be heard through the cacopho
nies of commercialized crap.
As in Alan Moores greatest-comic-ever-written CdM 
)Ka,dmMLk Ellis British background warps his view of 
American culture and the American political process into 
a bizarre cross between a circus and a Saturday morning
cartoon. Although foreign and bizarre to American readers, 
his view isnt too far from the truth. The election campaigns 
for The Beast and The Smiler were reminiscent of those 
in GMa 8iMMjum BoLqk an early comic by FKi. @Loqda BMayiLt 
author Frank Miller. The garish stars-and-stripes suits and 
melodramatic campaign posters appear designed by and 
targeted at kindergarteners, and figuratively, they are! 
After all, as The Beast says to Spider in an interview: The 
job of the president is to do whatever he wants and then 
convince 51 percent of the country that they dont care.
The gems of CiKLtmMak however, are interspersed between 
these didactic story arcs, where Ellis takes a break to write 
short, fun science-fiction pieces. For example, Spiders trip 
to The Citys giant self-contained socio-historical-preservation arcologies, the Reservations, reads like it came out of 
a Kilgore Trout story. (I saw two gay lovers embrace in the 
street, overjoyed to have escaped the Chinese Communism 
Reservation, Spider comments.) Another is the case of 
what happens to everyone from the 20th century who were 
cryogenically frozen, but the technology to restore their 
health became available in a future theyre not psychologi
cally capable of handling. These and others reveal subtler 
ramifications of technology and aspects of Spiders charac
ter that polish the main thrust of the story.
Darick Robertsons art is also an indisputable component 
of CiKLtmMaiulu9oaKL2t success. Robertson flips the switch 
between a serious, somber style for conversations and a 
cartoonish, almost superhero style for the action sequenc
es, controlling the flow of the story. Robertsons sense of 
humor is great too, and he strictly avoids the obnoxious ten
dency in science-fiction comics today to make everything 
look slick and cool. Most of the imaginative technology is 
designed to look ridiculously exaggerated, or downright 
campy. I love it!
Ellis has signed a two-year deal with Marvel Comics, so 
it might not be a bad time to see what happens in the 
super-hero sphere. Other British authors are writing good 
material now too, such as Morrison and Ellis CdM vyaduioaI 
and Peter Milligans ;ymKL CKiqMa and 7saKaopc I wouldnt 
go so far as to speculate that theres an impending big 
turnaround in the comics business, but CiKLtmMaiulu9oaKL 
maintains hope for the mainstream.
ALx -LlfrLii 
8hrsva noLff
Image courtesy of Vertigo
Spider Jerusalem towers over The City.
Image courtesy of Vertigo
Unusual sunglasses from a psychedelic machine.
18SeVVOTIN 27 G,pa,gO,A 2004.

---------------------------------------------------

MONDAY 27.FRIDAY 1.ONGOING
Ever Yours, Oscar. Created by Brian Bedford. One-man show 
based on letters (including recently discovered letters) written by Wilde. 
Byham Theater. 8 pm. Tickets for students: $10. 412.561.6000.
The Archive of Controversy. Mapping Art Controversies. 4:30
6 pm. Text and design topics. Adamson Wing. 136A Baker Hall.
TUESDAY 28.
Whirling Dervishes of Rumi Performance. Carnegie Music 
Hall. 7:30-9:30 pm. Students with ID, $14. Journey of Sufi mysti
cism through dance. 412.628.6871.
Jazz Jam and Steve Palko and Band. The Rex Theater in the 
South Side. 412.381.6811.
Poets Respond to the Visual. Silver Eye Center for Photography. 
South Side. Local poets and their impressions of the latest exhibit. 
412.431.1810.
Blues Belt Band Blues Jam.
Scooby's in Bridgeville. 412.257.1300.
Mumia Abu-Jamal Update.
Washington. 412.268.6094.
J. With Robert Bryan and Lynn
WEDNESDAY 29
Carbon Leaf. Mr. Small's Funhouse. 7:30 pm. Tickets $10 at the 
door. America's pre-eminent unsigned band."
Days Away, Love Drug. The World. Strip District. All ages. 
412.642.2941.
ULS: Let The Good Times Roll: Freedom is Just Another 
Word for Nothing Left to Lose. Gay Pride Month Keynote 
Speaker: Rebecca Walker. Named by Time Magazine as one of the 50 
most influential women under 40. Author of Black. White and Jewish: 
Autobiography of a Shifting Self. McConomy, 4:30 pm.
THURSDAY 30.
Irish Traditional Music. Club Caf in the South Side. 7:30 pm. 
Tickets $10 in advance. $13 at the door. Contact Carla Dundes at 
412.563.6281.
John Tab & Buzz DC Takeover. Digital Goodtime LLC presents 
Solution at Chemistry. 9pm-2am. Tickets $5. 412.904.2005.
Colin Quinn. Comedy. Station Square, South Side. 412.2813130.
Rodeo Smackdown. Opening Night. Stephen Foster Memorial 
Oakland, on University of Pittsburghs campus in front of the Cathedral 
of Learning. The newest show from Squonk Opera. Through Oct 17. 
412.624.PIAY.
Beginners Astrology Workshop. Open Mind Bookstore. Lectures/ 
Classes. Sewickley. 412.741.1888.
Drawn by Reality  Encapsulated in Life. New European artist 
installations. Part of the Pittsburgh International Festival of Firsts. At 
Wood Street Galleries. Free and open to the public.
Swan Lake. Pennsylvania Ballet. Tickets starting at $20. Contact 
Kelley Warren at 412.471.6081.
RADical Day. Pittsburgh Glass Center. Free to the public. Events 
throughout the day. Information at http://www.pittsburghglasscenter. 
org. Contact Paige Pertz at 412.365.2145 ext. 202.
Lewis Black. Byham Theatre. Comedy Downtown. 412.456.6666.
CMU Wind Ensemble. Carnegie Music Hall. Oakland. 8 pm. Denis 
Colwell, conductor. Tickets: $5. $4 students: free with Carnegie Mellon 
ID. 412.268.2383.
Performing Arts Exchange. Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre Studios. 
Dance. Strip. With LABCO Dance. Contact. 800.607.0857.
Alpen Glow. Penn Brewery. International. North Side. Part of the 
Oktoberfest Celebration. 412.237.9400.
Ruddigore. Opening Night. Andrew Carnegie Music Hall, Carnegie. 
The Gilbert & Sullivan musical, presented by the Pittsburgh Savoyards. 
Through Oct. 17. 412.734.8476.
9x9: New Prints. Mid Atlantic Arts Foundations Creative Fellows 
2003 (sponsors). Through Oct. 16. 412.321.8664.
Bethlehem Haven. Volunteers. Assistance needed for this agency 
which works with disenfranchised women. 412.391.1348.
Pittsburgh Hash House Harriers. ^Hare & Hound-style mystery 
run. Sundays. 412.381.6709.
Dowes on 9th. Jazz. Downtown. "Entrepreneurial Thursdays. Mu
sic by Jessica Lee & Friends. Plus interviews with business leaders. 
Thursdays. 412.281.9225.
Silk Thread. South Side. Knitting for the novice. Wednesdays. 
412.481.1666.
SATU RDAY 2,
Will Brock, Beam. Hip-hop. Washington. The Uptown Theatre. 
724.223.8101.
Register to Vote. Allegheny County Board of Elections. Downtown. The 
deadline in Allegheny County is Oct. 2. 412.350.4510.
Ukrainian Food Festival. St. Vladimir's Ukrainian Orthodox Hall. South 
Side Holubchi, pyrohy, halushky and more. 412.854.4124.
SUNDAY 3
John Butler Trio. Mr. Small's Funhouse. Trio combines hip-hop with 
soulful vocals. $8 advance. $10 at door. Contact Brendan Pester at 
412.821.4447.
Tony Janflone Jr. Band. Blues Cafi South Side.
Sundays. 412.431.7080.
Free Improv Workshop. No Parking Players. Learn Improv. BH 235A. 
3 pm.
MONDAY 4.
Brad Yoder & Heather Kropf. Starbucks in Squirrel Hill. 8-10 pm. 
E-mail brad@bradyoder.com.
F3HHLA.: cn siFtiNLir c&&l:
vox
POPULI.
THE OFFICIAL VOICE 
OF THE PANTY POLL/POLE
5?ss*
a
%
m
iSrft
%
stle uke a children rs book, 
WITH ROCKET LAUNCHERS.
/;.x ;
mfmm
ICCCC"&
iilelil;
%
V>,
%*'
H8
Ht US
Oft*1*X\Ss
My hot dog is due Wednesday.
v> /r\L
W

---------------------------------------------------

mernmm-aa
Wh
O1Lsoo>-H>
Michael J. Hartwell
Hes going into space. Are you afraid - 
That nonsense-void between you? As if stars 
Exert attractive force the same as yours!
You should feel worse each time he takes a step 
As your own planet teases, pulls him down 
To lie upon her soil, and there to stop.
Or possibly you dread to think Alone!
Not one of two can be - the sound may fade,
But atoms call from almost any distance 
And anyones as good belong to you - 
Its proven, gravitationally speaking.
What, tears? And why? For surely now you know 
Beyond a doubt that your beloved listens.
What other consolation were you seeking?
ANONYMOUS
enviably pristine surgical steel 
implement tasting like something i had 
met the other night
at that dark place with all the dim lights
in the master bedroom
some little Victorian deal
tasted all tea-cake fancy
impinging the esophageal walls

---------------------------------------------------

Novelty hole-puncher confetti bruises
All in pastels 
Each amorphous shape testimony 
To the fact that you know your shit 
Back to back 
Or so you think 
Bruise on my neck 
yank, kiss, eat, release. Repeat. 
Sometimes you emit static 
I can hear the crackles and spurts 
In the dark and blue foxfire 
Momentary key n kite electricity 
Although it remains to be decided 
Who is in fact the kite 
And who holds the hey 
Your head fits snugly between 
jaw and collarbone 
And the rest of you fits 
My extremities 
Like interlocking fingers 
Harmonious and negligent 
Watery icing on an oily cake 
Get up. Stand up. Get up. Stand up. 
This whole love thing segues 
nicely into the rest of my day 
You say.
Funny how some smells take 
You back to others days, like 
The smell on my body: smells 
Like the kind of love you generate 
In a big city. Smells like shoes 
You beat to death in finding 
That unfamiliar subway stop 
To the unfamiliar hole-in-wall 
Habitation 
That may or may not house 
The very eyes you want to see 
When a certain doorknob you long 
To turn is as turgid as a tomato 
And you cannot remember 
[I cannot remember] 
When I last longed to have 
Welcome home! fluid trickle 
down my dirty chin the 
Way I long for welcome home! Fluid now.
Later
Ill get up and sort 
My books and 
Check to see if the cacti 
Need water and 
Think of all the neat 
Places to *uck 
And come to all the realizations 
That were my pet project 
For so long 
And I wont tell anyone 
Except you.

---------------------------------------------------

filli
 v.v X
danieile saudino
SII
j =^< x*| 'v-" '> *'- * - 1& *<

---------------------------------------------------

DOSSIER
' :;. ii'-' . ::V;-. r *3 - .'1V: 'A ':..v,-)w: O)1O V'vs- i />
>' ':V-Vv'
** filili 
]  .....
\
submit: dossier@thetartan.org

---------------------------------------------------

scream Michelle M. Bova
1 C, 13:3
ANONYMOUS
The girl, this girl, screams a scream born of frustration 
Startles herself with the pure sound of it, 
the way it is nothing, because no one hears it 
But yet, crisp, clear
So long since that scream, but frustration?
Maybe it was fear, all around in the tiny space
View this picture outside of yourself;
The girl, wild eyed with stress, discontent 
Dreams blur to nightmares,
Like a circus freak show of some lost variety
She is just driving, just pushing
But broken by waves of fear, waves of wildness
The girl, the woman, shudders with childlike fear 
She erupts, disconnected from the sound from herself 
Rear your ugly head,
Scream.
Each day begins as I leave my bed 
And the memories of warmth begin to fade. 
The fog of dreams half-remembered 
Turns to the sharp reality of my room.
I would stay, but I cant live in a dream.
The day passes as they all do.
I see my friends; I see my enemies.
But enemies is a word they use,
And I pray that they will see 
Why no one is my enemy.
Even as the day goes by,
I try to escape it.
I retreat to a place where I am strong, 
Where I can ignore the snubs and sneers, 
But I know I cant live in a dream.
Just being with my friends,
Those whose presence should console,
Is not always enough.
I am the odd man out
Of the odd men and women here.
And so I return home,
And fall into my unmade bed
I would cry myself to sleep,
But the tears no longer come.
So I pray and thank God 
For letting me live another day.
Alone is a state of mind.
