PILLBOX
Carnegie Mellons student newspaper since 1906
BRENT HEARD
Senior Staffwriter
CHRIS GALVIN 
Staffwriter
Nobel-prize-winning economist and Carnegie Mellon 
alumnus Edward C. Prescott 
gave the inaugural Tepper 
Lecture this past Friday.
The new Tepper Lecture 
series features distinguished 
Ph.D. alumni of the Graduate 
School of Industrial Administration (GSIA)  what is now 
known as the Tepper School of 
Business  who were invited 
back to Carnegie Mellon to address the community on their 
area of expertise. 
Prescott earned his Ph.D. 
in economics from Carnegie Mellon in 1967 and later 
served as a faculty member 
from 1971 to 1980. 
Throughout his career, 
Prescott also taught at the 
University of Pennsylvania, 
the University of Minnesota, 
the University of Chicago, 
and Northwestern University, 
among other schools.
 Prescott is currently the 
W.P. Carey Chair in the department of economics at Arizona 
State University as well as a 
senior monetary adviser at the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis. Prescott received the 
Nobel Memorial Prize in Economics in 2004 with Finn E. 
Kyland for their contributions 
to dynamic macroeconomics: 
the time consistency of economic policy and the driving 
forces behind business cycles. 
Kyland and Prescott onducted 
most of this pioneering research while they were af?liated with Carnegie Mellon.
Upon the announcement 
of the Nobel Prize, former 
University President Jared 
Cohon said in a university 
press release, I am delighted 
to congratulate Finn and our 
alumnus and former faculty 
member Ed Prescott on behalf 
of the university. They continue a long tradition of pathbreaking research in economics at Carnegie Mellon.
Their papers discussed economic problems surrounding 
time-inconsistent policies  
which cause attempts to stimulate the economy to damage 
it instead  and the effects 
of supply-side factors such as 
technological progress and 
resource shocks on business 
cycles. Prescott also hosted a 
roundtable discussion, which 
was attended by undergraduate economics students and 
focused on Prescotts experiences in economic research. 
He also touched on different 
theories surrounding current 
macroeconomic events.
In August 2012 Prescott 
was ranked as the 19th most 
in?uential economist in the 
world by the Research Papers 
in Economics project, based 
on his academic contributions.
According to a University 
of Pennsylvania press release, 
Prescott said, I love creating 
models and coming up with 
NOL UM
News Co-Editor
Carnegie Mellon is going 
to the Big Apple. By August 
2015, the university will not 
only have campuses in Pittsburgh, Silicon Valley, and 
Qatar, but also in New York.
The school contracted 
with New York City, as well 
as Brooklyn-based production factory Steiner Studios, 
to create a new graduate 
school campus that melds 
technology with the arts. 
Carnegie Mellons Brooklyn 
campus will give students 
the opportunity to obtain 
masters degrees in subjects 
such as game design, computational data science, and 
emerging media, according 
to the New York Daily News.
The program, entitled 
the Integrative Media Program, will cater to graduate students interested in 
pioneering the converging 
?elds of arts, design, science, and the humanities. 
The Integrative Media Program is one of a kind; as 
the ?rst Applied Sciences 
project to integrate rigorous academics seamlessly 
into a specialized commercial working environment, 
according to a university 
press release, the program 
seeks to contribute to the 
future of technology in urban environments.
We believe New York 
City will be the perfect setting for CMU to provide 
education in these technology-based modes of expression and production  social media, games, special 
effects, responsive environments, product design 
and manufacturing  just 
to name a few of the areas 
where we will be working 
together, said Provost and 
Executive Vice President 
Mark Kamlet in the university press release.
CMU is recognized 
worldwide for its computer 
science and engineering 
programs, but I dont know 
if many people are aware 
of how strong its ?ne arts 
program is as well, said senior design major Joe Oak. 
As the cultural hub, New 
York will be a great place to 
strengthen the universitys 
involvement in the arts as 
well as increase awareness 
among the creative community.
New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg made 
the announcement at 
LILAH BUCHANAN
Junior Staffwriter
The Language Technologies Institute has recently 
produced several alumni who 
have implemented natural 
language processing and machine learning applications 
that bene?t both online content providers and consumers.
Language technologies 
doctoral candidates Richard 
Wang and Frank Lin, along 
with alumni Tarik Raed (SCS 
11), and Brad Barbin (TSB 
11) have launched EnFind, 
which is powered by technology developed at the Language Technologies Institute. 
According to Barbin, EnFind 
is a search engine committed 
to making the Web a better 
place.
EnFind, Raed explains, 
provides readers with an opportunity to learn, view related articles, and make purchases  all from one article 
... and all completely free.
While perusing the Internet, many consumers are 
easily sidetracked by curiosities that a particular article 
inspires. Users may leave a 
given site to investigate these 
interests and make purchases 
elsewhere  purchases motivated by the original article. 
Because of this tendency, content providers are losing out 
on revenue and consumers are 
subject to a more sporadic and 
directionless user experience.
EnFind aims to solve this 
problem, for both the content 
provider and consumer. Raed 
explained, A content provider 
wants their reader to be engaged in an article  but ultimately monetizes the engagement through recirculation 
and should look to optimize 
this.
De?ned by its founders as 
a search engine with no web 
crawler, EnFind allows readers to enjoy the information of 
the Internet without ever leaving the article of initial interest. In order to properly credit 
initial sites, EnFind places an 
ID on the consumer so that initial sites can receive af?liate 
credit for future purchases.
So far, EnFind has seen 
tremendous success. Current data shows a 2 percent 
increase in articles read by 
consumers and 25 percent 
increase in advertisements 
viewed. EnFinds technology 
has recently been implemented in a trial run for the sports 
section of the Pittsburgh PostGazette. After the successful 
trial, Raed and Barbin expect 
EnFind to be implemented 
across the Post-Gazettes site 
by the end of the year.
In light of their recent successes, Raed and Barbin re?ect 
on their formative experiences 
at Carnegie Mellon. Both are 
thankful for the inspiring stories of alumni and the opportunities to work with Ph.D. 
students during their time as 
undergraduates. In the same 
vein, Raed and Barbin encourage undergraduates to chase 
their own unique entrepreneurial visions.
ALVIN MATHEW
Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellon University recently announced 
the inception of the Simon 
Initiative, a campus-wide 
push for interdisciplinary 
research collaboration and 
technology-aided learning 
initiatives.
The Simon Initiative is 
named after the late professor Herbert Simon, known 
for his work in cognitive 
psychology and computer 
science, and related applications in education.
The Simon Initiative is 
complemented by a new 
seed-funding program at 
the university that will 
open up opportunities for 
expansion of education initiatives. According to an of?cial email from President 
Subra Suresh, The Simon 
Initiative will also coordinate campus-wide activities 
with the Eberly Center for 
Teaching Excellence and 
Educational Innovation, 
the Science of Learning 
Center jointly administered 
with the University of Pittsburgh and funded by the 
National Science Foundation, the Carnegie Mellon 
Open Learning Initiative 
activities, and other organizations on campus to connect research on learning 
with CMU courses and the 
on-campus experiences of 
students and faculty.
The program looks and 
hopes to combine research, 
technology, and entrepreneurship within the university, and hopes to unite the 
universitys technological 
and educational worlds to 
help better understand human learning. The initiative 
will also ensure that high 
quantities of research data 
will be stored so that different institutions can utilize 
them. 
The university plans to 
create the Global Learning 
Council (GLC), comprised 
of industrial and academic 
leaders, which will share 
data among various institutions and groups to help create a better environment. 
The of?cial website for the 
Simon Initiative states that 
a data bank consortia will 
collect and store thousands 
of high-quality data sets, accumulate the best analytic 
methods available, and create a large research community enabled to improve 
education through empirical research. 
This council and the 
Simon Initiative arrive at a 
critical time for educators, 
President Suresh said in 
the of?cial university press 
release. The world is experiencing an educational 
revolution, but there has 
not been suf?cient effort to 
date to address the fundamental question: Are students using these technology platforms really learning 
successfully? Carnegie Mellon has been studying how 
people learn with technology since the 1950s; working together with our council colleagues, our goal is to 
create guidelines and best 
practices that ensure academic rigor and successful 
learning for students worldwide.
The program has received praise from educaFORUM
Bhangra takes Pittsburgh by storm  B8Filibusters necessary to combat partisanship  A7
SCITECH
Learn about the chemical process behind cooking  A4
thetartan.org
@thetartan
November 25, 2013
Volume 108, Issue 13
David Tepper donates $67 million 
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
News Co-Editor
David A. Teppers charitable foundation recently gave Carnegie Mellon 
$67 million, the universitys largestever donation from a Carnegie Mellon graduate and the largest gift for a 
building project.
The university will use Teppers most 
recent donation to build the new Tepper Quadrangle, which will be located 
on the north side of campus, where the 
Morewood Parking lot currently exists. 
Teppers previous donation of $55 million in 2003 changed the name of the 
Graduate School of Industrial Administration to the Tepper School of Business.
According to the of?cial university 
press release, the four-and-a-half-acre 
Tepper Quadrangle will be designed 
to facilitate high levels of cross-campus 
collaboration and bring together interdisciplinary initiatives, including entrepreneurship and technology-enhanced 
learning.
The universitys initial investment 
for the Tepper Quadrangle currently 
stands at $201 million. The ?rst building on the Tepper Quadrangle will 
house the Tepper School of Business. 
Students in the school of business are 
excited by the prospect of the new 
space.
I think that its a great way for 
Tepper to expand, and keep up its 
reputation as a highly ranked business school, said Elissa Maercklein, 
a sophomore business administration 
student. The new space will be good 
for Tepper.
Some students are concerned that 
the new business school building 
planned for the Tepper Quadrangle is 
super?uous. I dont know why Tepper needs a new building, said Rachel 
Fowler, another sophomore business 
administration major. Although it will 
be nice to get a new building.
Either way, the establishment of the 
new building is far in the future. Dean 
of the Tepper School of Business Robert 
M. Dammon said that the construction 
will not break ground until the summer 
or fall of 2015, and will not be completed until optimistically the fall of 2017, 
more likely 2018.
The university is currently searching for an architectural ?rm to design 
the building; they have contacted over 
See TEPPER, A3
CMU campus coming to Brooklyn 
See BROOKLYN, A3
Simon Initiative targets research
See SIMON, A3
CMU alumni create EnFind to help online consumers
Michelle Wan/Staff Photographer
Courtesy of Richard Wang
Prescott kicks off Tepper lecture series 
Courtesy of Forum PA
See PRESCOTT, A3

---------------------------------------------------

A2  thetartan.org/news The Tartan  November 25, 2013
NEWS IN BRIEFCulture Night held in University Center
WEATHER
Vehicle Stop/Theft of 
Chair
Nov. 16, 2013
A University Police of?cer 
stopped a vehicle for a traf?c 
violation on Forbes Avenue. 
While speaking with the 
driver, the of?cer noticed a 
chair in the back of the pickup 
truck. The of?cer con?rmed 
that the chair was removed 
from the cafeteria area in Posner Hall. The driver was given 
a Carnegie Mellon internal 
discipline citation for theft of 
university property. University Police took custody of the 
chair and will return it to Posner Hall.
De?ant Trespass Notice
Nov. 16, 2013
University Police made 
contact with a suspicious male 
outside of the Hunt Library. A 
Hunt Library desk attendant 
summoned the University 
Police after the male and two 
others were seen walking 
around the Hunt Library. University Police spoke with one 
of the men and issued him a 
de?ant trespass notice for frequenting Carnegie Mellons 
leased or owned property. The 
University Police have positively identi?ed the other two 
suspicious males that were in 
the library, and all of?cers will 
be on the lookout for the three 
men.
Underage Drinking Party
Nov. 17, 2013
University Police were 
summoned to the third ?oor 
of Hamerschlag House due to 
a loud party. Of?cers discovered several open containers 
of alcohol inside the room 
where the party was held. The 
University Police ordered the 
occupants of the room to disperse and all of the alcoholic 
beverages were disposed of. 
Two students were cited with 
internal discipline citations 
for underage drinking.
On the same night, University Police were summoned to 
the Skibo Caf after a report 
of a male student spitting on 
the ?oor of the caf. Of?cers 
made contact with the intoxicated student, who was taken 
to his residence by police and 
cited for underage drinking.
Vehicle Damage
Nov. 18, 2013
University Police assisted 
the Pittsburgh Bureau of Police with gathering information about several vehicles 
that were damaged by fallen 
tree limbs on Frew Street. The 
vehicles were legally parked 
on Frew Street when several 
large branches fell on the cars 
and caused extensive damage 
to them.
Odor of Marijuana
Nov. 19, 2013
University Police were 
called to the ?rst ?oor of the 
Donner House to investigate 
an odor of marijuana. Of?cers 
met with the occupants of the 
suspected room, at which time 
the rooms occupants admitted to smoking marijuana. All 
illegal contraband was con?scated and one student was 
cited for disorderly conduct.
Campus Crime & Incident Reports
The Taiwanese Student Association hosted its annual Culture Night in the University Centers Rangos Hall on Friday. The event featured student 
performances and cultural food. The theme of this years Culture Night was Ma?a. 
Source: www.weather.com
FEATURE PHOTO
Researchers from Carnegie Mellon University and 
Temple University recently 
searched for the best strategies for educating teachers, discovering that ?nding 
the best way to teach can be 
extraordinarily dif?cult, as 
there are over 205 trillion 
potential options available 
for professors as they form a 
curriculum. 
Ken Koedinger, professor 
of human-computer interaction at Carnegie Mellon, said 
There are not just two ways 
to teach, as our education 
debates often seem to indicate.... There are trillions of 
possible ways to teach.
According to a university 
press release, In the Nov. 22 
issue of Science the researchers break down exactly how 
complicated improving education really is when considering the combination of different dimensions  spacing 
of practice, studying examples or practicing procedures, 
to name a few  with variations in ideal dosage and in 
student needs as they learn.
The researchers then focused mainly on conclusive 
approaches that they feel 
are vital to classroom learning. In order to simplify the 
complexity of this matter and 
to help improve educational 
methods, researchers offered 
?ve different suggestions. 
Firstly, Research should 
focus on how different forms 
of instruction meet different 
functional needs, implementing more experiments 
to determine how different instructional techniques 
enhance different learning 
functions. 
Researchers also suggested [taking] advantage 
of educational technology to 
further understand how people learn and which instructional dimensions can or cannot be treated independently 
by conducting massive online 
studies, building a national 
data infrastructure in which 
data are collected at a moment-by-moment basis, and 
developing more permanent 
school and research partnerships to facilitate interaction 
between education, administration, and researchers.
HCI researchers suggest methods to optimize classroom learning
Shared information on social networks can lead to hiring discrimination
Alessandro Acquisti, associate professor of information 
and public policy at Heinz 
College, and Christina Fong, 
a senior research student 
at Dietrich College, headed 
a research team that found 
that hiring discrimination 
can result from employees 
sharing information on social 
networks.
Although surveys have 
suggested that some employers use social networks 
to screen candidates, until now there have been no 
controlled experiments that 
study how often ?rms look 
at prospective employees online pro?les, and how much 
those pro?les affect candidates chances.
The researchers found 
that a minority of American 
employers consistently refer 
to online searchers for candidates. According to Fong, 
While it appears that a relatively small portion of U.S. 
employers regularly search 
for candidates online, we 
found robust evidence of discrimination among certain 
types of employers.
According to a university 
press release, Acquisti and 
Fong used data revealed online by actual members of 
popular social networking 
and job-seeking sites to design job candidate rsums 
and online pro?les for their 
experiments. They experimentally manipulated personal traits the candidates 
revealed online regarding 
religion and sexual orientation, while holding signs of 
professionalism and work 
ethic constant. They used 
more than 1,000 individuals 
on the Web to test reactions 
to their pro?les and rsums. 
The two  researchers also 
submitted applications for 
subjects to over 4,000 employers, which helped them 
collect data and investigate 
how many employers looked 
online for candidates.
The researchers stressed 
their ?ndings should be seen 
as correlated  not causal  
because they could not randomly assign religious values 
and traits in different areas. 
Nonetheless, Acquisti said, 
Employers use of online 
social networking sites to research job candidates raises 
a variety of notable implications, since a vast number of 
job candidates reveal personal information on these sites 
that U.S. employers cant ask 
in an interview or infer from 
a rsum.
Points of DiscussionCommittee Report: Internal Development
STUDENT SENATE MEETING MINUTES
FRIDAY
High / Low
35 / 21
SATURDAY
High / Low
37 / 24
SUNDAY
High / Low
38 / 27
TUESDAY
High / Low
35 / 30
WEDNESDAY
High / Low
33 / 21
THURSDAY
High / Low
28 / 18
Compiled by
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
Compiled by
ALVIN MATHEW
The Campus Life Committee is considering putting a 
holiday tree up in the University Center. The proposal raised 
concerns during the meeting 
that a holiday tree could be 
construed as religious bias. Although the tree would not be 
speci?cally a Christmas tree, 
some Senators argued that a 
holiday tree is inherently biased toward the Christmas 
holiday. The Campus Life committee is considering the issue 
and possible alternatives.
Student Senate discussed 
the possibility of having college-speci?c events to foster 
community involvement in 
student government. The idea 
drew trepidation from Senators after last years unsuccessful college-speci?c town hall 
events. Senators suggested 
partnering with academic 
Student Advisory Councils to 
organize the events.
Senate also discussed communication between committees. Some Senators feel that 
separate committees are too 
closed, and need to present 
committee reports more often. 
Other Senators thought that 
constant committee updates 
would be excessive.
Ex Of?cio Report:Summer Studies 
Maureen Meyer, a Summer Studies student assistant and junior professional 
writing major, spoke on behalf of the Summer Studies 
program. 
According to Meyer, 
Summer Studies wants to 
form a student committee 
to give feedback and ideas 
about the summer experience at Carnegie Mellon.
Committee Report: Campus Life
The Gallery Crawl was 
held this Saturday, from 11 
a.m. to 5 p.m. The Campus 
Life Committee has printed 
and framed the Spring 2013 
Deans List; they will hang 
it publicly in the University 
Center soon.
The committee also 
mentioned the potential of 
putting up a holiday tree 
or other decorations in the 
University Center.
Members of the Executive Committee were 
pleased with the Senators 
feedback from the survey 
sent out by the Internal 
Development Committee 
two weeks ago. The survey 
measured how Senators felt 
about the Executive Committee and the direction 
that Senate is going.
Jonathan Leung/Assistant Photo Editor

---------------------------------------------------

tion experts. Providing a 
platform that can attract 
world-class talent and signi?cant public and private 
resources is a critical step forward, said U.S. Secretary of 
Education Arne Duncan in a 
university press release.
 Efforts like this new one 
from Carnegie Mellon will 
advance this vital conversation.
Since the 1950s, Carnegie Mellon has been at the 
vanguard of the movement 
to ?gure out how people are 
able to learn. Studies have 
shown that such practices by 
universities are more effective than the traditional practices used by many schools. 
The GLC is already attracting tremendous support, and 
organizations such as Microsoft are showing preliminary 
interest. Carnegie Mellon 
students want to learn more 
about the initiative. Hanson 
Zeng, a ?rst-year information systems major, said, I 
think the Simon Initiative 
idea seems great, but getting 
big names into one organization may have a faade of real 
accomplishment. But until 
there is action and outcome 
I cant really say its effective, 
considering CMU has been in 
the forefront of tech learning 
since 1950.
The Simon Initiative 
promises advances in technology-centered learning 
through the GLC and a new 
source of funding for research and innovation.
20 ?rms and are planning to 
narrow the candidates down 
in the spring semester. After 
an architect is selected, it will 
take between a year and 18 
months to ?nalize a design for 
the building. The building will 
hold more than Posner Hall 
currently does  included in 
the potential designs for the 
building are a new ?tness and 
recreation space, a dining location, an auditorium, and a 
welcome center for prospective students and parents.  
President Suresh wants the 
new auditorium to be the largest on campus, according to 
Dammon.
The building will also 
house campus-wide centers 
for entrepreneurship and collaboration, such as the new 
Center for Innovation and Entrepreneurship, formed from 
a marriage of the School of 
Businesss Donald H. Jones 
Center for Entrepreneurship 
and the School of Computer 
Sciences Project Olympus.
The added ?tness space 
coincides with the universitys 
planned expansion of the University Center, which will gain 
new exercise areas. According 
to Dammon, Tepper stipulated 
that the new building contain 
a ?tness center. That was one 
of the things that Tepper was 
very concerned about, the 
lack of good ?tness facilities 
here on campus, Dammon 
said. So he insisted that if 
hes going to give us $67 million, we have to set aside at 
least 12,000 square feet in the 
new building for ?tness.
Dammon emphasized that 
none of these plans is concrete 
yet. Since we havent really 
gotten into design yet, there 
may be some things we envisioned having in the building 
that we wont have space for; 
we may have to move things 
around a bit. But the plan is 
for it to be 295,000 square 
feet.
The construction of the 
Tepper Quadrangle also raises 
several concerns, since the 
Quadrangle will reduce parking in the Morewood parking 
lot as well as relocate Spring 
Carnival.
There will be some parking under the building, Dammon said. Not enough to 
make up for everything thats 
going to be lost. They are 
working to ?nd alternatives 
for parking, but they have not 
decided exactly what to do 
yet.
Dammon mentioned several alternatives for parking, 
including a new parking garage adjacent to the Tepper 
Quadrangle and busing students from a parking location 
slightly further away.
Dammon also raised the 
concern of the current dif?culty of crossing Forbes 
Avenue, noting that the construction of the Tepper Quadrangle is part of a larger university initiative to expand the 
Forbes Avenue area. They 
are ?nding ways of what they 
call taming Forbes, making 
sure that the traf?c is slower, 
synchronizing the lights so 
that the cars can get through 
and then theres a stoppage so 
people can get across, Dammon said. The university is 
well aware that they have to 
do something on Forbes Avenue. They have to do it in 
consultation with the city, 
obviously  we cant just do 
whatever we want.
Spring Carnival, Dammon 
said, will still be in the Morewood parking lot for  tentatively  the next two years. 
Although a ?nal location for 
Carnival has not yet been decided, Dammon theorizes that 
it will be in the College of Fine 
Arts parking lot and on Tech, 
Frew, and Margaret Morrison 
streets. 
After the construction of 
the Tepper Quadrangle and 
the new business building, the 
building that currently houses 
the Tepper School of Business 
will be reallocated for other 
university departments.
Dammon also emphasized 
that the new building is not 
just for Tepper. People should 
understand that its not just 
for the Tepper School  there 
is going to be signi?cant 
amount of university-wide 
space. We want it to be very 
collaborative; we want it to be 
inviting to the whole campus. 
So the Tepper School will be 
there, sure, but therell be lots 
of other things for the university in that space as well.
November 25, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/news  A3
University to construct Tepper Quadrangle
TEPPER, from A1
Kelsey Scott/Operations Manager
CMU announces Simon Initiative 
SIMON, from A1
the Brooklyn Navy Yard last 
Wednesday. Carnegie Mellon is one of the great educational institutions in the 
country and it just adds to the 
overall intellectual capital of 
the city, Bloomberg said 
during his speech. Smart 
people want to be with smart 
people  they feed on each 
other, they develop with each 
other.
The creation of the Brooklyn campus was made possible by Carnegie Mellons 
winnings in the Applied 
Sciences NYC competition, 
which awarded the school 
$100 million and $300 million in New York City real estate. The program will open 
in Steiner Studios seven-story building at 25 Washington 
Ave., following a $65 million 
renovation.
Sophomore mechanical 
engineering major and New 
York native Taisha Vargas 
said, I think its fantastic 
that CMU is reaching out to 
the Big Apple. We need to 
have more of a national presence, and why not start in the 
capital of the world? CMU 
would be surrounded by several other well-respected universities, and the opportunity 
to present CMU as a university that promotes cultural diversity through this program 
is groundbreaking.
Were very strong in drama and the arts, so we have a 
huge alumni base thats here 
and were always involved in 
activities here, Kamlet said 
in an interview with The New 
York Times. 
But in terms of yet additional plans in New York, that 
might be great but theres not 
others that are concrete at 
this point.
The Integrative Media 
Program will offer courses 
through the College of Fine 
Arts, the School of Computer Science, the College 
of Engineering, and the Tepper School of Business. The 
school plans to have 50 students each year  40 matriculated students and 10 visiting students.
BROOKLYN, from A1
The building will hold more 
than the school of business  
included in the potential designs 
for the building are a new ?tness 
and recreation space, a dining 
location, an auditorium, and a 
welcome center for prospective 
students and parents. 
Brooklyn welcomes new CMU campus
Brian Trimboli/News Co-Editor
Prescott lectures on economic stability
explicit structures I can play 
with, adding, Economists 
create their own worlds. 
Were like little gods with our 
arti?cial economics, wanting 
to see what happens.
Prescotts lecture focused 
on his recent research with 
fellow monetary adviser at 
the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Minneapolis, Ellen R. 
McGrattan. 
Their report, titled On 
Financing Retirement with 
an Aging Population, addressed the problem of ?-
nancing retirement consumption in the United States as 
the population ages and the 
number of workers per retiree drops. Prescott outlined 
his and McGrattans proposal 
to move from current U.S. 
retirement system  which 
relies heavily on payroll taxes 
to make lump-sum transfers 
to retirees  to a saving-forretirement system that eliminates these payroll taxes and 
old-age transfers.
To learn more about 
Prescott and McGrattans research on the U.S. economics 
and the retirement system, 
visit http://www.minneapolisfed.org/research
PRESCOTT, from A1
Michelle Wan/Staff Photographer
The Tepper Quadrangle will be located where the Morewood parking lot currently stands. 
Courtesy of Forum PA
PRESCOTT, from A1

---------------------------------------------------

A4  thetartan.org/scitech The Tartan  November 25, 2013
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
News Co-Editor
Whether it is a crispy piece 
of bacon or an apple pie, every piece of cooked food you 
eat has been transformed by 
a varied and complex series of 
chemical reactions.
When a piece of meat hits 
a hot pan or bread rises in 
the oven, a chemical reaction 
involving an amino acid and 
a sugar gives it the browned 
appearance that lets us know 
that its cooked. This reaction, 
called the Maillard reaction, 
doesn't just make food look 
cooked  its also responsible 
for the ?avor and aroma of 
cooked food.
The Maillard reaction is 
named after the French chemist Louis Camille Maillard, who 
?rst discussed the essence of 
the reaction in his 1912 paper. 
The reaction wasnt described 
in detail, however, until a 1953 
paper was published by John 
Hodge, a chemist working for 
the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Even today, the complex 
reaction isnt fully understood 
because of the many variables 
and possible outcomes.
The marriage of high heat, 
amino acids, and sugar is responsible for the Maillard 
reaction. Although it doesn't 
seem as if foods such as bread 
or meat would have sugar in 
them, even the most savory 
foods have these naturally occurring carbohydrates.
Since the Maillard reaction is so all-encompassing, 
the mechanisms behind it are 
multiplex. In the ?rst stage of 
the reaction, a reducing sugar, 
such a glucose, condenses with 
a compound that contains a 
free amino group, and a chain 
of amino acids that make up a 
protein. From there, the sugaramino acid reaction forms the 
Amadori rearrangement product, the beginning of a series 
of more complicated organic 
reactions.
The Amadori product reacts in different ways to produce different scents and 
?avors, mostly dependent on 
how acidic the system is. The 
Maillard reaction is notoriously complex and dif?cult to 
control; it does, after all, result in most of the ?avors and 
scents people see and smell in 
cooked foods.
While the Maillard reaction affects a wide variety of 
foods, it is not the only browning process. Caramelization is 
the browning of sugar, seen 
commonly in roasted marshmallows, crme brle, and, 
of course, caramel.
Caramelization is a considerably simpler reaction than 
the Maillard reaction, since it 
involves just heat and sugar. 
Although caramelization occurs at different temperatures 
depending on the type of 
sugar, it generally happens at 
around 338F.
Caramelization is an example of pyrolysis, a decomposition of organic compounds at 
high heats. Caramelization, 
like the Maillard reaction, is a 
non-enzymatic browning process.
In the ?rst step of caramelization, water evaporates 
from the sugar. Next, the sugar starts to break down into 
smaller compounds. Sucrose, 
for example  also known as 
table sugar  breaks down 
into glucose and fructose. 
From here, like in the Maillard reaction, there's a condensation process. During 
this step, the individual sugar 
compounds react with one 
another to form hundreds of 
complicated aromatic compounds. These compounds are 
what give caramelized foods 
their signature sweet and nutty taste.
Caramelization can produce 
a wide range of ?avorful compounds. Diacetyl, for example, 
gives food a butterscotch-like 
taste. Other compounds produced by caramelization include furans, which have a 
nutty ?avor; esters, which have 
a rum-like ?avor; and maltol, 
which has a toasty ?avor.
As anyone who has accidentally burned sugar knows, 
caramelization can easily go 
too far. If sugar is left to caramelize too long, the process 
will break down the original 
sugar to the point where it becomes blackened and bitter. 
This is a result of the oxidization of the sugar. 
Sugar, a carbohydrate, is 
made up of rings of carbon atoms, along with hydrogen and 
oxygen. After sugar is oxidized 
so much that we consider it 
burnt, whats left over is mostly carbon. Blackened, burned 
sugar is akin to briquettes on 
the grill or to chimney soot, 
both of which are made up 
of mostly burnt carbon compounds.
Although food is simple to 
eat, the chemical processes behind producing the ?avors and 
aromas we know and love are 
actually very complex and  
to this day  not completely 
understood. As researchers 
learn more about the Maillard 
reaction and caramelization, 
it can lead to new ways to manipulate how processed foods 
look and taste.
HOW THINGS WORKOrganic reactions are behind the process of cooking
MICHAEL SETZER
SciTech Editor
Though common sense 
can sometimes seem rare in 
the human population, it is 
almost never associated with 
computers. Carnegie Mellon 
researchers, however, are currently implementing a program that allows a computer 
to label images and acquire 
common sense almost entirely on its own. The program, 
called the Never Ending Image Learner (NEIL) runs constantly on Carnegie Mellons 
campus and analyzes thousands of images daily. The 
researchers aim to create the 
worlds largest visual database and ultimately improve 
computer vision.
The research team is led 
by Abhinav Gupta, an assistant research professor in the 
department of robotics, and 
includes Xinlei Chen, a Ph.D. 
student in Carnegie Mellons 
Language Technologies Institute, and Abhinav Shrivastava, 
a Ph.D. student in robotics.
Their work builds upon 
already existing programs 
that gather a visual knowledge base, such as ImageNet 
and Visipedia. The issue with 
these programs, the researchers explain, is that they simply rely too much on human 
instruction to cover the vast 
amount of visual data available on the Internet. The fact 
that NEIL can operate largely 
on its own makes the process 
of building visual knowledge 
bases much more feasible.
Having a computer learn 
visually is far superior to having it learn from text alone. 
For example, purely analyzing 
text references might create 
incorrect assumptions about 
objects that would be obvious 
to people who can see. In this 
way, NEIL learns in a similar 
fashion to humans. Babies 
make visual connections long 
before they have the ability to 
read; NEIL works off of the 
same basic principle.
Since the project began 
in July, NEIL has analyzed 
over 5 million pictures. NEIL 
is able to make the common 
sense connections by looking 
through all of these images. 
For example, after looking 
through thousands of pictures 
of wheels and cars, NEIL can 
make the connection in its 
own language that Car can 
have a part called a Wheel. 
The program has managed to 
make over 3,000 of these connections and categorized approximately 500,000 objects.
The technical approach 
behind NEIL is complex. The 
researchers started with thousands of seed images that 
they gathered from Google 
Images in order to train NEIL 
to recognize patterns. They 
then used a clustering approach to set up speci?c 
models that NEIL can use for 
future searching. They built 
upon these models to develop 
relationships between objects. The program works so 
that each time NEIL identi?es 
a new object or relationship, it 
adds to its body of knowledge 
and becomes better at making 
visual connections.
What we have learned in 
the last 5-10 years of computer vision research is that the 
more data you have, the better computer vision becomes, 
Gupta said in a university 
press release.
The public can follow NEIL 
in real-time through the website www.neil-kb.com. The 
website categorizes NEILs 
knowledge base into objects 
such as 1950s_car, scenes 
such as Alaska, and attributes, such as brown. As 
NEILs analysis becomes increasingly exhaustive, it will 
further develop the capability 
to sub-categorize objects and 
identify deeper relationships 
than those between objects. 
Furthermore, visitors to the 
site are allowed to send a request or submit a phrase for 
NEIL to look up.
The program isnt perfect, 
of course. NEIL can make mistakes during some searches, 
especially with homonyms. 
For example, the researchers 
mentioned that Pink could 
pose a problem as NEIL might 
be confused whether the term 
refers to the pop star or the 
color. Additionally, because 
NEIL runs all day, it is computationally intensive and 
requires over 200 processing 
cores in 2 clusters.
Moving forward, the team 
is excited for NEILs potential 
contributions to the ?elds of 
scene classi?cation and object 
classi?cation. They will travel 
to Sydney, Australia in December to present their current ?ndings at the Institute 
of Electrical and Electronics 
Engineers (IEEE) International Conference on Computer 
Vision.
Computer program NEIL runs 24/7 to create visual database
Michael Setzer/SciTech Editor
JENNIFER GOLDA
Staffwriter
Last Tuesday, Carnegie 
Mellon University announced 
its creation of the Institute 
for Strategic Analysis (CMUISA). This new organization 
will offer a centralized of?ce 
to coordinate consultations 
with senior U.S. defense, intelligence, and diplomatic of?cials pursuing science and 
engineering solutions.
Carnegie Mellon has long 
been considered a resource 
to National Security of?cials 
for its expertise in computer 
science, cybersecurity, decision science, and international relations. In addition 
to its reputation for conducting cutting-edge research in 
areas such as robotics, natural language processing, and 
human-computer interaction, 
Carnegie Mellons history of 
coordinating interdisciplinary 
efforts translates to the universitys ability to pragmatically approach complicated 
real-world problems.
Under the leadership of 
Kiron Skinner, the director of 
Carnegie Mellons Center for 
International Relations and 
Politics and an associate professor of social and decision 
sciences, the CMU-ISA will 
draw from the School of Computer Science, Dietrich College of Humanities and Social 
Sciences, and CIT to organize 
lecture series, fellowships, 
and short courses for defense 
and intelligence of?cials seeking expert advice. Before the 
creation of the institute, of?cials in need of consultation 
had to depend on their own research and connections to determine who in the university 
to contact. Now, the institute 
formalizes the process and 
optimizes it by serving as a liaison  of?cials can contact 
the CMU-ISA and members 
there will pull the resources 
together.
Work in the School of Computer Science and CIT have 
long been tapped for government usage.
Carnegie Mellon isnt entering into policy debates, but 
providing information on the 
basic science that underlies 
policy and determines what 
is possible and what is not, 
Skinner emphasized in a university press release.
Another important distinction of the CMU-ISA from the 
university is that it will neither become a research institution nor will it administer 
degrees. Like Carnegie Mellons Of?ce of Government 
Relations, which works with 
more Congressional leaders 
than National Security ones, 
the CMU-ISA is intended to 
strictly facilitate connections 
between Carnegie Mellon and 
the government.
The institute will not facilitate research and will instead 
focus on providing information to federal agencies and 
seeking projects from them. 
In addition to describing itself as a resource to Congress 
members and their staff, the 
Of?ce of Government Relations lists among its goals to 
identify new opportunities 
for the university to engage in 
federally-funded research.
Federally funded projects 
are common at Carnegie Mellon. According to Carnegie 
Mellons 2012-13 Consolidated Financial Statements, sponsored projects are the single 
largest source of operating 
revenue, totaling $406.1 million in 2013. The federal government accounts for 86.7 percent of that funding, about 40 
percent of which comes from 
the Department of Defense.
CMU launches Institute for Strategic Analysis
Courtesy of Carnegie Mellon News
NEIL, a computer program, is able to identify relationships between objects by analyzing thousands of images.Michelle Wan/Staff Artist

---------------------------------------------------

November 25, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/scitech  A5
Summer Employment at Carnegie Mellon:
Teaching Assistant and Residential Counselor Jobs in 
the Pennsylvania Governors School for the Sciences 
Undergraduate summer employment at Carnegie Mellon University is available 
with the Pennsylvania Governors School for the Sciences (PGSS).   e PGSS is a 
 ve-week summer school for extremely talented high school students from Pennsylvania.  Teaching Assistant/Counselor appointments are available in the areas of 
biology, chemistry, computer science, physics and mathematics.  Academic duties 
of the TA/Counselor include assisting with lecture and lab courses and mentoring 
team research projects.  Counselor duties of the TA/Counselor include living in the 
same dormitory as the PGSS students, ensuring that students adhere to the PGSS 
disciplinary rules, providing tutorial help in the academic program, and arranging 
and conducting social activities.
Applicants should have  nished their sophomore year by the start of the program.  Preference will be given to applicants with strong academic records and strong social skills.  
Prior experience with PGSS or a similar summer program is preferred, but not required. Further information is available at the PGSS web site:  www-pgss.mcs.cmu.edu.
Stipend for  ve-and-one-half week period:  
$2,250 for new TA/Counselors, $2,500 for returning TA/Counselors
Housing is included (in the PGSS dorm) as well as a food allowance.
TA/Counselor duties begin Wednesday, June 25, 2014, end Sunday, August 3, 2014.
Applications are available from the PGSS O  ce in DH A301
or may be downloaded (pdf format) from the PGSS web site:
 www-pgss.mcs.cmu.edu
Contact the PGSS Program O  ce at (412) 268-6669
or e-mail pgss@cmu.edu
Application Deadline:  March 1, 2014
(Applications may be accepted a er the deadline until all positions are  lled.)
BROOKE KUEI
Assistant SciTech Editor
Nov. 18 marked a historic 
day for space exploration. At 
1:28 p.m., NASA launched a 
5,400-pound spacecraft on 
the Mars Atmosphere and 
Volatile Evolution (MAVEN) 
mission from Cape Canaveral 
Air Force Station in Florida, 
according to NASAs MAVEN 
launch updates website.
Mars, named after the Roman god of war for its distinct 
red color, resides in an orbit 
approximately one and a half 
astronomical units from the 
sun. Home of Olympus Mons, 
the largest known volcano in 
the solar system, as well as 
the famous Valles Marineris 
canyons, Mars has long been a 
favorite among astronomers, 
as well as the planet on which 
the possibility of human habitation seems most probable.
Unfortunately, most studies of the intriguing planet 
have been done from observatories on Earth, which, at 
its closest approach to Mars, 
is still millions of miles away. 
According to nineplanets.org, 
the ?rst spacecraft to visit 
Mars was Mariner 4 in 1965. 
Since then, several other missions to the elusive planet 
have been made. However, 
NASAs website states that 
the MAVEN spacecraft will 
surpass previous explorations 
to Mars: [It] will provide 
information about the Red 
Planets atmosphere, climate 
history and potential habitability in greater detail than 
ever before.
According to a NASA press 
release from the day of the 
launch, the MAVEN spacecraft 
separated from an Atlas V 
Centaur rockets second stage 
53 minutes after the launch. 
Approximately seven minutes 
later, solar arrays powering 
the spacecraft were deployed, 
and the MAVEN was off on its 
10-month journey to Mars. 
It should arrive at Mars next 
September.
The main goal of the MAVEN mission is to understand 
the upper atmosphere of Mars 
 in particular, how the loss 
of atmospheric gas to space 
changed and affected the climate of the planet. To calculate how much of the Martian 
atmosphere has escaped into 
space, MAVEN will measure 
the current rate of escape and 
gather information to learn 
about the process so that a 
backwards extrapolation can 
be done.
The mission team is comprised of a diverse group of 
scientists. MAVEN Project 
Manager David Mitchell is 
from NASAs Goddard Space 
Flight Center in Greenbelt, 
Md., which manages the project and provided two science 
instruments for the mission. 
MAVEN Principal Investigator 
Bruce Jakosky works from the 
Laboratory for Atmospheric 
and Space Physics at the University of Colorado Boulder. 
The Space Sciences Laboratory at the University of California, Berkeley also provided 
science instruments for the 
mission. NASAs Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, 
Calif. is instrumental in navigation support. Lockheed 
Martin built the spacecraft 
and is in charge of mission operations.
After 10 years of developing the mission concept and 
then the hardware, its incredibly exciting to see MAVEN 
on its way, Jakosky said in a 
NASA press release. But the 
real excitement will come in 
10 months, when we go into 
orbit around Mars and can 
start getting the science results we planned.
Write for SciTechscitech@thetartan.org
NASA closer to Mars with MAVEN
FEATURE PHOTO
Peter Lee/Staff Photographer
Jure Leskovec, an assistant professor of computer science at Stanford University, gave a lecture titled Exploring the Structure of Networks and 
Communities last Thursday in Rashid Auditorium. His talk covered machine learning  and its uses analyzing online communities and their resulting 
networks.
Eating nuts shown to extend life
Studies at the University 
of Toronto have related the 
consumption of nuts with 
longer survival. The research 
was based on two long-term 
studies that investigated the 
health and lifestyle of approximately 119,000 health 
professionals for 24 to 30 
years. Scientists found that 
people consuming at least 
28 grams of nuts, two to four 
times a week, were 13 percent less likely to die during 
the study. People who ate 
nuts ?ve to six times a week 
were 15 percent less likely 
to die, and those eating nuts 
seven or more times a week 
were 20 percent less likely 
to die. The scientists believe 
that it is too early to say that 
nuts alone will increase longevity, but they do support 
the idea that nuts are a strong 
part of a healthy diet.
Source: Reuters
Wearable tech gets battery upgrade
Researchers have discovered that polyester yarn 
can be used to create ?exible, solar-powered batteries 
that could make wearable 
electronics even more convenient. Current wearable 
electronics, such as smartwatches and Google Glass, 
still involve a charger with 
a cord. Alternatives to this, 
such as textile batteries, are 
expensive and impractical for 
use in wearable electronics. 
Scientists have discovered, 
however, that polyester yarn 
coated with nickel and carbon produces a ?exible battery that can be folded and 
stretched. This material can 
also be combined with lightweight solar cells, which 
removes the need to plug in 
wearable electronics.
Source: The New York Times
Compiled By
CLAIRE GIANAKAS
Neanderthal virus found in human
Scientists from the U.K.  
have discovered evidence of 
ancient Neanderthal viruses 
in modern human DNA. They 
compared genetic data from 
fossils to that of current-day 
cancer patients; the results 
suggested that some modern 
viruses could have originated from diseases present in 
our ancestors over 500,000 
years ago. The team is now 
researching whether these 
viruses, part of the HML2 
family of viruses, are active in 
modern humans. Researchers hope that this new discovery will help scientists determine links between ancient 
viruses and modern diseases 
such as HIV and cancer. 
Source: Science Daily 
Young galaxies can offer space insight
Using the Atacama Large 
Millimeter Array telescope 
and NASAs Hubble Space 
Telescope, astronomers have 
discovered three primitive 
galaxies 13 billion light-years 
from Earth. 
These galaxies, which are 
approximately 800 million 
years old, look as though they 
are ready to merge into one 
large galaxy. Astronomers believe this large galaxy, which 
they are calling Himiko, 
could eventually evolve into 
a galaxy like the Milky Way. 
Astronomers believe that Himiko could provide valuable 
insight on the formation of 
the earliest galaxies in the 
universe.
Source: Science Daily
Diabetes drug could ?ght cancer
Researchers have discovered that metformin, a drug 
currently used to treat diabetes, could be used to treat cancer. Clinical trials are already 
underway to determine how 
effectively the drug treats 
various cancers. There are 
many bene?ts to the use of 
metformin as a cancer treatment. Metformin has a strong 
safety record and only mild 
side effects  as indicated 
by its use as a diabetes drug 
 and its inexpensive when 
compared with many other 
cancer-?ghting drugs. Metformin could potentially treat 
a wide variety of cancers and 
even Parkinsons.
Source: Science Daily 
Volcano found under Antarctica
A group of scientists including Doug Wiens, a professor of earth and planetary 
science at Washington University in St. Louis, has discovered a volcano located a 
kilometer beneath the ice in 
West Antarctica. The scientists used a seismograph array 
to create images of the ice and 
rock in West Antarctica, and 
two unusual seismic events 
prompted a closer investigation of the area. They concluded that the volcano will 
de?nitely erupt. It will most 
likely not break through the 
ice above it, but could cause 
large-scale melting of ice in 
West Antarctica.
Source: Science Daily
SCITECH BRIEFS
Courtesy of Wikimedia Commons
The planet Mars as seen from Celestia, a 3-D astronomy program.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan is a student newspaper at Carnegie Mellon University, funded in part by the student 
activities fee. It is a weekly publication by students during the fall and spring semesters, printed by 
Trib Total Media. The Tartan is not an official publication of Carnegie Mellon University.
The Editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The 
Tartan Editorial Board. Columns, Editorial Cartoons, and Reviews are the opinions of their 
individual creators. The Tartan Editorial Staff reserves the right to withhold from publication 
any copy it deems unfit.
Letters to the Editor are the opinions of their authors. Letters from within the University community take precedence. Letters intended for publication must be signed and include the authors 
address and telephone number for verification; letters must not exceed 350 words. Authors names 
may be withheld from publication upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject 
any letter. Letters must be submitted by 5 p.m. on the Wednesday before publication by mail or to 
forum@thetartan.org.
StaffEditorial Board
Office: University Center 314
Phone: (412) 268-2111
Fax: (412) 268-1596
Web: www.thetartan.org
E-mail: contact@thetartan.org
Mail:
The Tartan
Box 119, UC Suite 103 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
 2013 The Tartan, all rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN: 0890-3107
JENNIFER COLOMA *
Publisher
JOSH SMITH *
Editor-in-Chief
BRADEN KELNER 
Forum Editor 
EVAN KAHN *
Copy Manager
JUSTIN MCGOWN
Online Editor
CHLOE THOMPSON
Staffwriter
BRENT HEARD *
Senior Staff
A6  thetartan.org/forum The Tartan  November 25, 2013
FROM THE EDITORIAL BOARD
SENIOR STAFF 
Stephanie Blotner, Carl Glazer, Greg Hanneman
COPY
Lula Beresford-Banker, Francesca Begos, Matt 
Brown, Connie Chan, Nivedita Chopra, Gordon 
Estes, Blaine Greenberg, Ariel Hoffmaier, 
Katherine Huang, Karyn Michela, Satvika Neti, 
Mackenzie Nicholson, Gates Palissery, Taylor 
Rawley, Stephanie Stern
LAYOUT
Adrian Amegashie, Manali Banjeree, Yong Gun 
Choe, Sara-Remi Fields, Anne-Sophie Kim, 
Mina Kim, Linging Sun, Tanguri Tzuo
ADVERTISING
Alison Chiu, Linda Ju, Anuva Kulkarni, 
Gretchen Tan
KELSEY SCOTT *
Operations Manager
NEL UM
News Co-Editor
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
News Co-Editor
MICHAEL SETZER
SciTech Editor
WILLIAM PARK
Sports Editor
RACHEL COHEN
Pillbox Editor
KAIRAVI CHAHAL
Comics Editor
KATE GROSCHNER
Photo Editor
LAURA SCHERB
Personnel Manager
WILL CRICHTON
Systems Manager
SWATHI ANAND
Layout Manager
JOHN HUO
Advertising Manager
DESIREE XU
Business Manager
BENJAMIN CHANG
Asst. Business Manager
JONATHAN LEUNG
Asst. Photo Editor
HANNAH DELLABELLA
Asst. Copy Manager
JAMES WU
Asst. Copy Manager
JULIA YANG
Asst. Copy Manager
BROOKE KUEI
Asst. SciTech Editor
JOEY PEISER
Asst. Pillbox Editor
JONATHAN CARREON
Contributing Editor
Editorial Staff
* Denotes executive committee member
BRANDON SCHMUCK 
According to the Institute for 
College Access and Success Project 
on Student Debt, college students 
who borrow loans will graduate 
with about $26,600 of debt. According to Gordon Wadsworth, author of 
The College Trap, college tuition has 
increased over 2.5 times the rate of 
in?ation since 1985. Clearly, America has a problem with tuition price 
increases and student debt.
The U.S. is trapped in a student 
loan bubble, which is susceptible to 
burst. Like the housing bubble, it is 
caused by carelessly gifting loans to 
students who wont graduate and 
will fail to pay them back. This phenomenon was described earlier this 
month by professor Richard Vedder 
of Ohio University at the Students 
For Liberty Pittsburgh Regional 
Conference at Duquesne University. 
Students are taking longer to graduate, and many are failing to complete their education.
Vedder stated that students are 
being encouraged by many public 
universities to take a ?fth or sixth 
year to receive their bachelors degree, and 34 of all students percent 
do so. This prolonged time in college 
increases their debt and raises tuition because of increased demand.
Ironically, as Vedder points out 
in a Bloomberg article, Elite private 
schools can cost far less relative to 
public schools, not only because of 
the top schools generous aid, but 
also because students mostly graduate in the advertised four years, 
while those at state schools dont. 
Many elite universities push students to complete degrees in four 
years and deny aid after the initial 
four years. Vedder calculated that 
this push caused a median of 87 percent of students in elite universities 
to graduate in four years, while a 
sad 25 percent graduated in this allotted time in public universities.
This decreasing graduation rate 
and increasing debt can be attributed to the idea that a person must go 
to college to be successful. This idea 
is far from true. During his speech, 
Vedder stressed, We have more janitors with bachelors degrees than 
chemists with bachelors degrees. 
While this may be hard to believe, 
the Bureau of Labor Statistics revealed that 115,000 janitors, 83,000 
bartenders, and 323,000 restaurant 
servers have bachelors degrees.
Student loans have constantly increased the demand for education, 
attracting a large number of people 
who may not be truly suited for college. After all, academics are not for 
all and, until recently, were seen as 
an option among many others. In 
return, the cost of college education has also begun to exponentially 
increase, as those who drop out or 
take additional years make it more 
expensive for others to attend college and graduate in four years. 
By offering subsidized loans to 
almost anyone and making students 
believe that college is necessary, the 
government may be hurting young 
adults by making college seem like 
an inevitability instead of an option.
Brandon Schmuck (bschmuck@) is a 
staffwriter for The Tartan.
Loan bubble may burst
BRADEN KELNER
Students on The Playwickian, the school newspaper at Neshaminy High School in Langhorne, 
Pa., recently announced that they 
no longer publish the schools mascot name, which is the Redskins. 
Instead of using the term, the journalists circumvent it  for example, 
calling the football team the Neshaminy football squad, not the Neshaminy Redskins. In its Unsigned 
Editorial: Why we wont publish the 
R-Word  signed by two-thirds of 
the editorial board  the board describes the word as a term of hate. 
Tension between administrators and 
the board gained national attention 
when administrators told the board 
that it had to use the term.
As a Neshaminy alumnus myself, 
I have only heard the word used to 
foster community for school-wide 
events. However, many members 
of the community rightfully see the 
word as derogatory given its history.
It is admirable that the board 
took a strong stance on the use of 
a controversial word. Furthermore, 
it is understandable that the board 
will not use the term in sections 
like news, based on the opinion of 
the majority. After all, article style 
should be uniform across sections.
By banning the word from all 
parts of the paper, though, the editorial board misunderstood its role 
as a learning publication within the 
high school. The Playwickian is a 
publication that is meant to encourage the growth of young writers and 
introduce students to journalism.
The board should have made a 
clear exception for the terms use 
in editorials. After all, there is a 
clear distinction between individuals opinions and editorial boards 
opinions. The board was justi?ed in 
taking the stance that it did against 
the term in articles that express the 
opinion of the entire paper. However, it is not justi?ed in blanketing 
this stance to individuals editorials.
While the editorial board has the 
right to place restrictions on expletives, this speci?c restriction seems 
to place barriers between the board 
and the student body. Students may 
not be receptive to controversial 
rules handed down by the board, 
which may hinder their relationship 
with the paper. They should not feel 
disconnected from a paper that can 
provide a great learning experience.
Especially in a paper in which 
the work of ?rst-time writers is published, there should not be a restrictive environment over the use of a 
term that has mixed connotations. 
This environment is not healthy for 
fostering a students abilities, which 
should be the top priority of the paper. High school is a vital time to develop interests, and the newspapers 
hard stance on this term could stop 
some students from exploring an interest in journalism.
When considering the term in individual editorials, the board should 
allow students to use their own discretion with the term to promote an 
unrestricted environment for individual editorial writers.
Braden Kelner (bik@) is Forum editor 
for The Tartan.
Student paper restricts term, restricts its writers
How much time do students 
spend in Hunt Library each year? 
Whatever the astronomically high 
number, its good to see that library 
staff care about improving the experience that students have when 
working within the libraries walls.
Carnegie Mellon University Libraries conducted a survey of students this semester, as well as last 
semester. Staff members asked for 
suggestions for improvement of the 
librarys services and availability.
University Libraries recently announced a long list of notable improvements via their website: Hunt 
Library will be open 24 hours a day 
as a trial run starting this Sunday 
through ?nals next semester, and 
plans are underway to improve the 
selection of healthy options at the 
Maggie Murph Caf. The library 
website itself has been redesigned, 
and 2,954 new journals have been 
licensed. The library now supports 
BrowZine, which will allow students 
to access scholarly journals and articles from their mobile devices. 
University Libraries even listened 
to some of the smallest feedback 
requests, such as installing Google 
Chrome on its computers. Library 
staff also announced that they will 
launch another survey during the 
upcoming spring semester, meaning 
that they will continue to pay attention to the needs of students.
The initiative taken by the librarys staff is truly commendable. 
Listening to the desires of students 
is a sign of a responsive and caring 
staff. Beyond the signi?cant advantages for students in doing their 
work, these innovations are also an 
achievement for the university. The 
library actively seeked student feedback and implemented that feedback 
in highly visible ways.
Other parts of the university 
community could help students immensely if they took similar measures with an open willingness to 
change and better ?t what students 
need or want. This sort of proactive 
strategy is exactly what Carnegie 
Mellon should be using in its other 
initiatives.
University Libraries improvements much appreciated
Earlier this month, Carnegie Mellon celebrated the inauguration of 
ninth president Subra Suresh with 
campus-wide festivities. In the context of Carnegie Mellons history, the 
beginning of Sureshs time as president is a critical time of transition for 
the university. 
The campus made incredible 
strides over the last few decades, and 
Carnegie Mellon has made itself an 
unquestionable pioneer in research 
and academia. Now, the school has 
an opportunity to focus inward and 
re?ect with the inauguration of President Suresh.
The internal issues that the 
school has are clear to current students. Theres a lack of school pride; 
with exams, papers, and problem 
sets around every corner, students 
are often pushed to put their noses to 
the grindstone and forgo the social 
aspects and events that the school 
has to offer.
This tendency also produces 
alumni who dont necessarily 
look back on the school itself with 
fondness. 
Maybe the best indicator of alumni fondness is their lack of donations. 
According to the Carnegie Mellon 
Alumni & Reunion Giving site, for 
every $1 in endowment funds that 
Carnegie Mellon receives, our peers 
such as the California Institute of 
Technology, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and Stanford 
University receive $7.68, $9.96, and 
$11.50, respectively.
While the university makes a 
strong effort to land students their 
dream jobs, it needs to go further to 
ensure that students are cared for 
while at the university. The university initiated efforts to improve the 
campus culture with the series of 
town halls on stress, but those visible 
efforts have disappeared.
Though these overarching problems exist at Carnegie Mellon, the 
inauguration bene?tted the students 
and faculty in a real way. In addition 
to celebrating Suresh, the inauguration did something else: It stressed 
the uniqueness and community of 
the school during the ceremony and 
celebrations. Student talent was 
also recognized during the campus 
celebration when they showed off 
their research, work, and service on 
the University Centers second ?oor. 
These kinds of events should continue, since they foster a sense of community that isnt currently present 
on campus.
But now is time for the school to 
realize the importance of everyone 
here: students, faculty, and staff. 
They are the heart of the university  the heart that is in the work 
 and they need to be treated with 
more care.
We can be pioneers in our endeavors and care for our own, simultaneously. Lets make sure that as we usher in President Suresh, the university 
takes this time to put more focus on 
the well-being of students here, because that more than anything will 
foster pride in the university.
Sureshs inauguration a way to better campus culture
Braden Kelner/Forum Editor
Its no secret that Carnegie Mellon has developed a reputation for 
having a culture of stress. As a result, 
many students ?nd the need to seek 
out additional support for their mental health, especially at a high-stress 
time like the approaching ?nals period. Carnegie Mellons own Counseling and Psychological Services 
(CAPS) has come under scrutiny for 
what some students suggest are ineffective methods for scheduling appointments to see counselors.
In a high-stress campus culture 
like Carnegie Mellons, having convenient and effective mental health 
support is necessary. CAPS can serve 
this campus better by taking two key 
actions: ?rst, implementing an online scheduling system for scheduling both diagnostic and regular appointments, and second, reaching 
out to students to get their ideas for 
improving their services.
Academic departments, such as 
the economics, engineering, and 
public policy departments already 
have online scheduling systems in 
place for their advisers. Students 
can visit a webpage and see blocks of 
time available for meetings on their 
advisers calendars. By selecting a 
block and entering their Andrew ID, 
students can schedule a time to meet 
and discuss their academic situation. 
The same option should be available 
for students to discuss their mental well-being. The current CAPS 
intake process involves a questionnaire, which the service can easily 
integrate into an online framework 
to make psychological services more 
readily available.
To better gauge campus needs, 
CAPS should implement an easy way 
to collect student thoughts about 
the service, possibly by requesting 
feedback or providing online surveys 
after appointments. A survey is a 
highly visible way for CAPS to show 
the student body that it cares about 
their individual needs. 
Alternatively, CAPS could create 
an anonymous online suggestion box 
to accompany an online scheduling 
system. These initiatives would allow CAPS to easily build trust, which 
may not fully exist now, with students on campus. CAPS can bene?t 
as an organization and better serve 
the needs of our community by welcoming feedback and suggestions 
from students.
Carnegie Mellon must support 
its students by providing convenient 
care to ensure that their mental 
health remains optimal at all times of 
the year. By implementing an online 
scheduling system and reaching out 
for student feedback, CAPS can become a resource to help the campus 
truly thrive.
CAPS must take initiative to gain student feedback

---------------------------------------------------

A PERSONS OPINION
The Tartan is ready for Thanksgiving break. So we asked,
What Thanksgiving side are you most looking forward to?
Compiled by Justin McGown
Muyuan Li
ChemE, BME
Sophomore
Traditional Chinese food.
Debomita Basu
Materials Science & Engineering
First-year
Mashed potatoes and gravy.
Vince Demarchi
Business Administration
Sophomore
Stuffing.
Becca Stoll
Sound Design
Senior
Latkes!
Ben Burgess
Professional Writing
Sophomore
Sweet potato torte.
November 25, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/forum  A7
XIYU WANG
If youve read the news recently, 
youve probably read about the scare 
over Krokodil. Krokodil, or desomorphine, is a drug that ?rst popped up 
in Russia in the early 2000s as a substitute for heroin, and is known for 
its shocking side effects  it leaves 
the skin scaly and discolored (much 
like a crocodiles), and in the worst 
cases may eat away the ?esh entirely.
Given its horrifying properties, it 
seems unbelievable that use of this 
drug would spread. However, media 
outlets seem to take it as given that 
the drug is becoming an epidemic. 
One headline by The Huf?ngton Post 
reads Krokodil Could Be Spreading 
Across U.S., and one CBS headline 
warns, Krokodil use reportedly 
spreading. Is it really the case that 
Krokodil is an emerging threat to the 
public?
In reality, it is dubious that the 
drug has even reached North American shores. Although the drug is 
known for its necrotizing properties, infected IV needles may cause 
similar effects, creating a number of 
false positives. One Gawker headline 
reads Flesh-Eating Drug Krokodil 
is Now Attacking Chicago Suburbs, 
when the article mentions that only 
three cases have been reported. Similarly, headlines have been decrying 
the spread of the drug to places such 
as Ohio, Arizona, and even Canada, 
when, in all of these areas, there are 
less than a handful of cases of the 
drug, none of them actually con?rmed by laboratory testing.
Looking a bit more into the issue, 
it becomes clear that the fears of an 
epidemic are entirely unsubstantiated. As an International Business 
Times article states: Experts have 
said it is unlikely the drug has even 
really left Russia, as it is only used by 
people in remote parts of the country 
where heroin has become too expensive or unavailable  it is turned to 
as a last resort among addicts. The 
article goes on to further mention 
that there have been no cases of Krokodil con?rmed by the Drug Enforcement Administration laboratory.
The coverage of Krokodil is highly 
reminiscent of the bath salts scare 
from last year. In fact, it is all too 
common for the news media to depict every new drug that pops up as 
an epidemic. Maybe it comes from 
the psychology created by the war 
on drugs: If there is a new drug, it 
is assumed that people, especially 
drug users, are constantly searching 
for a new high and are desperate to 
get their hands on anything to experience it. This particular case of 
Krokodil may also play to the zombie 
fascination in society; many articles 
describe it as a zombie drug.
The media needs to stop hyping 
up cases where a new drug has been 
reportedly used. It is sophomoric 
and highly grating upon the collective intelligence of the public to create a panic every time a few random 
people use a new drug. 
Furthermore, although drug addiction is a serious problem in the 
U.S., this kind of sensationalism distorts the truth of the matter. Intelligent discourse in the media regarding the war on drugs is long due, 
although it may take a while before 
we actually get it.
Xiyu Wang (xiyuw@) is a staffwriter 
for The Tartan.
ARIEL HOFFMAIER
Retailers are increasingly breaking tradition and extending Black 
Friday insanity into Thanksgiving Day. For the ?rst time, popular 
stores like Toys R Us, Best Buy, and 
Macys are pushing forward their 
opening times from the early hours 
of Friday morning to the late or even 
early hours of Thursday evening  
times likely smack in the middle of 
family dinner.
Typically considered the of?cial 
start of the holiday shopping season, 
Black Friday is responsible for attracting hordes of shoppers, aggressively competing for the best deals 
on merchandise. 
Unsurprisingly, it is the busiest 
and most pro?table shopping day 
of the year. Last year, Black Friday 
shoppers spent a combined $59.1 
billion, according to the National 
Retail Federation. It could be considered a national holiday on its 
own, with its pervasiveness and 
seemingly bizarre traditions.
There are generally two teams 
when it comes to Black Friday. 
First, there are those who embrace 
it  prepared to wait in the cold for 
hours, face the madness, and marathon shop until they drop. Second 
are those who laugh at the ridiculousness of it and shake their heads 
at this prime example of Americas 
consumerism culture. Like it or hate 
it, though, Black Friday has its place.
Retailers have forgotten their 
place, however. They seem to have 
developed an in?ated sense of their 
own importance, or have become so 
hungry for pro?ts that tradition has 
lost meaning. It is ironic enough that 
a holiday centered on being thankful for family and blessings is immediately followed by a day dedicated 
to abandoning family for shops and 
the purchase of everything possible. 
This irony turns to hypocrisy, and 
disrespect, when the former is intruded on by the latter.
What right do stores have to 
pull people from their families on 
Thanksgiving? 
Even those who determinedly 
avoid malls on Black Friday and 
swear that they would never resort 
to shopping on Thanksgiving Day 
will likely be impacted by earlier 
start times. If the stores are open, 
people will go, even when that 
means running out on their families 
before the pumpkin pie is served. 
Thanksgiving could be ruined altogether for countless retail workers 
who have no choice over whether or 
not they work. 
Stores have prioritized materialism over family values, and customers may follow suit.
The change in trends has disturbing implications. Though certain 
stores are still holding out against 
the wave of earlier openings, such 
as Costco and Barnes & Noble, it is 
doubtful that they will be able to resist the pressure forever. Increasingly in the minority, these stores will 
lose out on valuable Thanksgiving 
Day pro?ts that their competitors 
are taking advantage of, and will 
eventually be forced to succumb as 
a matter of simple business sense. It 
seems only a matter of time before 
Thanksgiving will become just another shopping day.
Is there anything that can be 
done to stop this trend? Perhaps if 
Black Friday was made an of?cial 
calendar holiday, its events might be 
better con?ned. 
However, sparing more forceful 
action, people should resist the urge 
to snag Thanksgiving Day sales. 
Keep the holiday special  enjoy 
good food, spend time with loved 
ones, and be grateful. The shopping 
can wait until Friday.
Ariel Hoffmaier (ahoffmai@) is a 
staffwriter for The Tartan.
Retailers are imposing on Thanksgiving Day
Krokodil drug scare distorted by media
CHLOE THOMPSON
The United States Senate eliminated the use of ?libusters for highposition nominations made by 
presidents this past Thursday. Executive-of?ce appointments may now be 
approved by a simple majority, rather than by the 60-vote supermajority 
required since 1975. This change in 
legislation means that the majority 
can approve nominations without bipartisan support. This ruling will not 
affect Supreme Court nominations, 
or actual legislation.
Democrats  among them majority leader Senator Harry Reid (D
Nev.) and President Barack Obama 
 believe that this change in procedure is part of the natural evolution 
of the Senate, and will end the bitterly partisan gridlocks that have dominated nearly every Senate decision 
since President Obama took of?ce. 
Republicans, including minority 
leader Senator Mitch McConnell (R
Ky.), claim that the Democrats have 
deeply damaged the system of Senate, and muf?ed the voice of the minority in politics.
While the limits placed on ?libusters have the potential to back?re, they are a justi?ed attempt to 
change a system that has sustained 
heavy damage from partisan politics. The partisan division of politics 
has become an extreme problem in 
U.S. politics, requiring an extreme 
solution.
The limitation of ?libusters comes 
with consequences, the most glaring 
being that the change sets a potentially dangerous precedent. Currently, the law has no effect on legislation or Supreme Court nominations, 
but that could change. Democrats 
are making a huge gamble that they 
will retain control of the Senate in 
the 2014 election. Even if Democrats maintain their majority in this 
upcoming election, they will lose it 
eventually, as is the way of politics. 
Republican leaders have indicated 
that if they regain the majority in the 
Senate, they could use these changes 
to end the Affordable Care Act with 
a simple majority. The elimination of 
?libusters is not without its problems 
or implications.
However, examining why Democrats felt the need to employ these 
limitations on the use of ?libusters 
is also extremely important. Historically, ?libuster reforms have been 
implemented after extreme use of 
?libusters. The Senate implemented 
the two-thirds majority rule in 1917, 
in response to repeated ?libusters 
over President Woodrow Wilson's 
preparations for World War I. In 
1919, this rule came into effect and 
ended a ?libuster of the Treaty of 
Versailles. In short, ?libusters were 
created to deal with extremely important governmental decisions; 
they were created for the big issues.
However, this use has changed 
over time, as evidenced by the Republicans' ?libustering of all of 
President Obama's nominations for 
the Washington, D.C. circuit court 
and other high of?cials. Republicans who ?libustered these positions 
rarely offered a concrete reason as 
to why they disapproved of those 
particular candidates, and appear to 
be ?libustering just to block Democratic attempts at governance, which 
is a clear abuse of the nature of ?libusters. Both parties are guilty of 
misusing ?libusters for political purposes, and the ?libuster has strayed 
far a?eld from its original intention: 
to address massively important issues, not simply gum up the works of 
politics.
Throughout the years since Wilson, ?libusters have not been used 
excessively, though their popularity increased during President 
George W. Bush's term. According 
to Mother Jones, during President 
Bush's administration, Democrats 
?libustered 38 of his nominees, or 
roughly ?ve per year. However, that 
number has seen a dramatic increase 
during President Obama's term, with 
an average of 16 nominees ?libustered per year  triple the amount 
we saw with Bush. This is clear indication that the ?libuster is being used 
to hobble the majority's attempts to 
lead. Filibusters should only be used 
when the minority party has clear 
and deep-seated concerns with a 
particular candidate or issue.
The two most popular opinions 
on the Democrats' decision to limit 
?libusters are these: that the Democrats are making a grab for more 
power  at the expense of the possibilities this precedent creates  and 
that they are trying to work with a 
thoroughly partisan and deeply fractured system. Though this decision 
will certainly have consequences, it 
was a justi?ed attempt to ?x a system 
that has been scarred by partisan 
politics.
Chloe Thompson (cet@) is a staffwriter for The Tartan.
Appropriate ?libuster reform needed
Braden Kelner/Forum Editor
Braden Kelner/Forum Editor

---------------------------------------------------

A8  thetartan.org/sports The Tartan  November 25, 2013
music.cmu.edu
Free with a CMU ID at the door.
Thursday, December 5, 8pm
Carnegie Music Hall, Oakland
CARNEGIE 
MELLON
SCHOOL 
OF MUSIC
  201314 CONCERT SERIES
Annual Holiday Concert    
 with the
Philharmonic & Choirs  
 Maria Sensi Sellner, conductor
INFLATIONARY COSMOLOGY: 
  IS OUR UNIVERSE PART OF A MULTIVERSE?
The universe at 380,000 years; the Cosmic Microwave Background 
as seen by the Planck satellite
The Bennett-McWilliams 
                 LECTURE
4:30 p.m., Tuesday, Dec. 3, 2013
Rashid Auditorium
gates and hillman centers
CArnegie meLlon University
Free and open to the public
Reception to follow
SPEAKER BIO:  
Alan H. Guth is the Victor F. Weisskopf Professor of 
Physics and a Margaret MacVicar Faculty Fellow at the 
Massachusets Insitute of Technology.
After big win over Thiel, womens basketball jumps to 50 
Maryyann Landlord/Staff Photographer
On Sunday, the womens basketball team defeated visitors Thiel College 8438. Left: Sophomore Amanda McHenry battles for an offensive rebound. Top Right: First-year Uzoma Nwankwo and sophomore Lindsay Poss grab a 
rebound. Poss leads the team in rebounding, averaging 8.2 per game. Bottom Right: Sophomore Liza Otto makes a cross-court pass. Otto ?nished Sundays game with 15 points and ?ve rebounds. 
FEATURE PHOTOS

---------------------------------------------------

November 25, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/sports  A9
Tired of the same old, unappetizing study 
environment? Come to Market District and hang 
out in our newly remodeled Restaurant Caf 
where you can save some dough on some 
delicious foods and take advantage of our 
FREE WI-FI!
Celebrating your inal 
inal? Gather friends, 
relax with a beer* (we 
have a huge selection), 
order a pizza and let 
the holidays begin!
Shadyside
Carnegie 
Mellon
376
MarketDistrict.com
Shadyside
5550 Centre Avenue
Pittsburgh, PA 15232
412.681.1500
any restaurant purchase
Limit one coupon per customer. Not valid with any other offer. Not subject to doubling. Copies and facsimiles not accepted. Coupon is worth no cash value. Excludes purchases of prescriptions, gasoline, convenience store items, gift cards, tobacco, cigarettes, alcohol and other items prohibited by law.
$5 OFF
Expires 12/10/13
Shadyside Market District Bus Routes:
 71A and 71C PAT buses
 CMU Shuttle B (weekdays)  or AB (weekends) 
Free with CMU ID
=0G D  =@D (0d=@ D0 D  ,hC? 
l= =
*Must be 21; proper ID is required.
A Smart Change of Pace
Mens basketball cruises in second half to take opener
ZEKE ROSENBERG
Junior Staffwriter
At the start of the season, 
every team is optimistic about 
its chances. Theres a clean 
slate: no wins and no losses.
On Mondays home opener, the mens basketball team 
gave substance to this optimism with a dominant second 
half, vanquishing Geneva College in an 8167 victory.
The ?rst half, however, 
gave cause for concern. While 
the perimeter defense was 
usually solid, there were plenty of breakdowns that led to 
open three-point attempts. 
The bigger problem was a lack 
of rim protection, as Geneva 
was extremely ef?cient under 
the basket.
This allowed Geneva players to hang around longer 
than they should have against 
a Carnegie Mellon squad that 
often seemed to have an unstoppable offense.
Leading by only one point 
going into the second half 
with a score of 3332, the Tartans really got going after the 
intermission, hitting shot after 
shot.
An early second-half run, 
spearheaded by shooting from 
?rst-year guard Matt Hillman 
and solid play from senior forward Rob Mohen, separated 
Carnegie Mellon from Geneva 
for good.
Mohen turned in an excellent two-way performance, 
leading the team in scoring 
with 17 points, to go with solid 
defending and rebounding.
However, the real key to 
the victory was a huge hot 
streak from senior guard/forward Christian Manoli, who 
?nished with 17 points and 
eight rebounds.
Manoli was quick to credit 
his teammates. It wasnt even 
me, he said, It was the team. 
Hillman came out to play; Rob 
Mohen came to play; everyone 
came out to play.
He acknowledged his slow 
start, saying, I missed my ?rst 
two threes of the game, but 
a shooters got to shoot. You 
just have to come out and you 
cant get deterred.
Beyond the three-pointers 
that got the ball rolling for 
Carnegie Mellon in the second 
half, Manoli was effective getting to the hoop, carving up 
the Geneva defense.
On defense, the struggles 
that plagued Carnegie Mellon in the ?rst half were gone 
after the break. While Geneva 
scored more points in the second half, this was a result of 
Carnegie Mellon pushing the 
pace.
In the second half, Carnegie Mellon forced Geneva into 
nine turnovers and closed out 
the perimeter, leaving Geneva 
with only one three-point attempt. While the offense ran 
the show, the defense allowed 
this game to be blown more 
open than a 14-point margin 
would indicate.
In what can only be described as an auspicious start 
to the season, Carnegie Mellon put on a performance they 
could build off of, as they hosted the University of Pittsburgh 
at Greensburg on Saturday 
afternoon in an 8572 victory. 
Jason Chen/Staff Photographer
After defeating Geneva College 8167 in its Monday home opener, the mens basketball team won Saturdays game against the University of Pittsburgh at Greensburg 8572. Senior guard 
Christian Manoli (left) averaged 17.5 points and 6.5 rebounds over the two games, while senior guard Asad Meghani (right) averaged 11.5 points.  
Club sports teams ?nd success in their respective ?elds
WILLIAM PARK
Sports Editor
While Carnegie Mellon is 
home to many outstanding 
varsity athletes, many people 
are less aware of the university 
club teams, which are no less 
dedicated or talented.
Here are short recaps of 
how some of the universitys 
club teams have been doing 
so far.
Hockey
After many core players 
graduated, there were doubts 
over how well the club hockey 
team would play this year. 
But with a 62 record, the 
team has successfully erased 
those doubts.
Senior right wing Keith 
Hoover is having another 
standout season with nine 
goals and 10 assists.
I know Im not the most 
skilled player on the ice so I try 
to make my impact felt in any 
way I can. I think Ive done a 
good job this year going to the 
front of the net and the other 
dirty areas, Hoover said.
The future of the team 
looks bright. Sophomore 
center Chad Trice has emerged 
as a consistent scoring threat, 
with nine goals and 12 assists. 
The speedy skater is not just 
a scorer. He also possesses a 
deft passing touch to create 
scoring opportunities for his 
teammates.
I think the team is off to 
a great start.... We de?nitely 
have the talent to make a playoff run this year, Hoover said.
Last year, the team fell to 
California University of Pennsylvania in the ?rst round of 
the playoffs. In a test of the 
current teams form, they beat 
their rivals 86 on Oct. 26.
After ?nishing play for the 
semester on Sunday, the club 
hockey team will next hit the 
ice on Jan. 25 against Case 
Western Reserve University.
Baseball
The club baseball team 
ended its fall season with a 
104 victory over West Virginia University on Oct. 27 to 
improve its record to 145.
We have played very well, 
especially recently. We set the 
school record for wins with 14 
thanks to some excellent starting pitching, senior captain 
Brendan MacNabb said.
Leading the pitching staff 
is junior Darryl Tan, who has 
a 30 record with a clean 1.80 
ERA. Meanwhile, sophomore 
Darren Kerfoot has been a 
workhorse, throwing a teamhigh 32 innings and 34 strike 
outs.
MacNabb is the teams 
third starter and has a 1.80 
ERA over 20 innings. 
The offense hasnt been too 
intimidating, but with strong 
pitching and stellar defense, it 
doesnt have to be.
Many ?rst-years have 
made strong contributions. 
First-year Dan Evans leads 
the team with a .431 BA and 
seven stolen bases, and ?rstyear Alex Walenczyk leads 
the team with 20 runs and 
has shown impressive range in 
center?eld.
The team will have a long 
layoff before next playing during spring break, when it will 
start its quest for its ?rst playoff berth in team history.
For the spring, we have 
a legitimate shot at qualifying for the playoffs ... as long 
as the pitching stays sharp 
and the top of our lineup 
produces, MacNabb said.
Ultimate
Playing in Division I against 
national powerhouses such as 
the University of Pittsburgh, 
the mens ultimate club team 
Mr. Yuk has a tough road to 
get to the National Championships. Losing 14 of its 24 team 
members from last year does 
not make their road any easier.
But with a talented group 
of ?rst-years and strong veteran leadership, Mr. Yuk has 
shown that it can compete 
with the powerhouses in its 
division.
Were not here to rebuild, 
were here to reload, junior 
captain Reid Almand said.
Almand and senior Andrew 
Willig, the assistant captain, 
have been instrumental in 
leading the teams young players. First-year Justin Abel has 
emerged as a key contributor 
for years to come.
The freshmen are stepping 
up big time, and Im really excited to see this group of guys 
continue to build chemistry 
and carry on the Mr. Yuk tradition, Almand said.
Mr. Yuk wrapped up its fall 
preseason in the Steel City 
Showdown tournament on the 
weekend of Nov. 9.
The team lost the ?rst four 
games of the tourney, but then 
regrouped to win its last two 
games against University of 
Pittsburghs B team and the 
College of William & Mary.
Soccer
The mens club team, AC 
Mellon, ?nished its season on 
Nov. 17 with a 1053 record. 
The team just missed out on 
qualifying for the postseason 
tournament, but was named 
an alternate.
We were disappointed 
not to make it to the regional 
tournament, but we had a very 
positive season nonetheless, 
junior vice president Gerard 
Kramer said.
Much of their success can 
be attributed to ?nding a 
strong identity.
In the past, we never really committed to a playing 
style, but this year we have 
really focused on playing as a 
unit and it has really paid off, 
senior president Vaughn Ridings said.
The team defeated the University of Pittsburgh, a team 
they have lost to for the past 
three years, 30 toward the 
end of the season.
In that game our collective play was outstanding and 
summed up our objectives for 
the season, Ridings said.
Multiple players stood out 
during the teams winning 
season. First-year Alex Lucci 
showcased incredible ?nishing ability, leading the team in 
goals. 
Senior center mid?elder 
Alex Zwiren provided great 
stability  the team won every game in which he started, 
but he unfortunately missed 
several games with an injury.
On defense, graduate student center back Ian McIntyre 
displayed general-like leadership in organizing the back 
line.
The team will play in an indoor league next semester, but 
is already looking to getting 
redemption next fall.
Next year, our goal is simple. We want to qualify for the 
regional tournament, Kramer 
said.
It will be dif?cult because 
we have to go through several 
strong teams like Penn State, 
Pitt, and West Virginia, but we 
have gotten good results from 
them in the past, he said.

---------------------------------------------------

A10  thetartan.org/sports The Tartan  November 25, 2013
CARL GLAZER
Senior Staffwriter
One-for-one trades are rare 
in professional sports.
With multiple draft picks 
and role players available, 
teams almost always toss in a 
few ?llers to balance swapped 
players salaries and skill levels. This is even truer in baseball when teams have access 
to their deep minor league 
system.
Thats why the Texas Rangerss trade of All-Star second 
baseman Ian Kinsler and $30 
million to the Detroit Tigers 
for ?rst baseman Prince Fielder was that much more shocking.
For both teams, this 
deal gave up some of their 
strengths in return for help in 
an area of desperate need. The 
Tigers had three power hitting 
?rst basemen/designated hitters in Fielder, 2013 American 
League MVP Miguel Cabrera, 
and former catcher Victor 
Martinez.
When Detroit signed Fielder back in 2012, Martinez had 
just been knocked out of the 
year with a torn ACL injury, 
and the Tigers still thought 
they were in a position to compete for a World Series. Fielder 
was still available on the free 
agent market and the Tigers 
brought him in to help them 
compete, but at the steep cost 
of a $214 million contract over 
nine years.
Now Martinez is healthy 
and productive again, while 
the Tigers are off to a disappointing loss to the eventual 
champion Boston Red Sox in 
the American League Championship Series. Cabreras de?-
ciencies at third base have become unbearable as he ages, 
and neither he nor Fielder desired to become the full-time 
designated hitter.
Detroit is also about to hit 
a payroll bind when CY Young 
winner Max Scherzer becomes 
a free agent at the end of the 
2014 season and Cabreras 
contract expires after 2015.
Detroits trade for Kinsler 
?lled two needs. First, payroll 
relief: Kinsler will make $57 
million over the next four seasons, while Fielder will make 
$168 million over the next 
seven years.
Second, Kinsler and Detroits shortstop Jose Iglesias, 
who was acquired in a midseason trade with the Red Sox, 
will help turn what was a defensive liability in the in?eld 
into a strength. Cabrera will 
move over to his more natural position at ?rst base and 
top prospect Nick Castellanos 
will likely be the starting third 
basemen. Castellanos brings a 
lot more range to the hot corner than Cabrera, along with 
some added speed.
For the Rangers, Fielder 
?lls a massive hole in the middle of their lineup. After losing 
All-Stars Josh Hamilton and 
Mike Napoli to free agency the 
past two seasons, Texas was 
missing some pop in the middle of its line-up.
This became apparent once 
slugger Nelson Cruz started 
his 50-game suspension in 
connection with the biogenesis performance-enhancing 
drug scandal. Cruz is now a 
free agent and already turned 
down the Rangers qualifying 
offer, and there a few powerhitting free agents available 
who can ?ll the void. With 
Fielder, however, the Rangers 
have a strong left-handed hitter in the middle of the lineup 
to complement third baseman 
Adrian Beltre.
Kinslers absence also 
opens up the logjam in the 
middle of the in?eld. With 
shortstop Elvis Andrus signing an eight year, $120 million 
contract extension at the start 
of the season, top prospect 
Jurickson Profar was stuck 
with no place to play.
Profar played a ?ll-in role 
this past year, split time at 
third base, shortstop, second 
base, left ?eld and designated hitter. His offensive game 
struggled as a result. He had a 
meager 0.234 batting average 
in 85 games.
The Rangers have no problem taking on the extra payroll 
with the Rangers local television contract about to balloon 
in 2015. The Rangers are one 
of the few contending teams 
that are looking to expand 
payroll instead of contract it 
and are likely to add at least 
one or two more big names before the offseason is over, be it 
through trade or free agency.
This was a perfect ?t for the 
two teams. Each team had an 
excess of talent at premium 
positions and a de?ciency in 
other areas. Its bold for general managers to make these 
moves with large room for 
speculation about their effect 
?ve years down the line. But 
the Tigers and Rangers want 
to win and have now shown 
the league that they will do 
anything necessary to do so.
SPORTS COMMENTARY
Fielder-Kinsler trade works perfectly for Detroit and Texas
Newby and Schnepf race for CMU in NCAA Championships
SHANA SINGH
Junior Staffwriter
Senior Josh Newby and 
sophomore Rekha Schnepf 
took on the 2013 NCAA Division III Cross Country Championships this past Saturday at 
Hanover College.
This was Newbys second 
appearance at the national 
level of competition, his ?rst 
being with the team last fall. 
Schnepf grazed the NCAA 
course for the ?rst time and 
is the ?rst woman to compete 
in the NCAA Championship 
for the Tartans since the 2011 
season.
Josh Newby ran a great 
race, placing 53rd in the nation and ?fth in the conference with a time of 25:35.
Newby started the ?rst two 
miles of the race pretty conservatively, and then spent the 
next three miles quickening 
his pace and making up a lot 
of ground. 
There were 275 men competing in the race, leaving runners jostling and elbows and 
spikes ?ying around on the 
turns, Newby said.
The Palo Alto native has 
been running since his freshman year of high school, 
which is when his training for 
Saturdays NCAA Championships began.
Your ?tness multiplies and 
grows over time, so you cant 
just reach maximal ?tness in 
just one season. It is literally 
an eight year process, he said.
The senior cant imagine 
his life without running: The 
discipline it has taught me and 
the fact that Ive worked towards the goal of becoming a 
better runner pretty much for 
two hours every day for eight 
years; I have to imagine that 
has made me more disciplined 
in other parts of my life.
For Newby, running is a 
battle against the mind. Its 
a release. Your body reverts to 
muscle memory and you zone 
out; youre not worried about 
whats going on in your classes 
or your social life, he said.
Looking back at his collegiate career, Newbys favorite memory was making 
the NCAA Championship as 
a team last year. It was most 
bene?cial bonding experience 
the team has had because we 
worked together toward the 
goal for the entire season and 
it paid off, he said.
As a ?rst-year, Newby 
looked up to the seniors in 
awe. 
Being a senior now, its 
hard for him to believe that he 
is now the role model for the 
underclassmen.
If I knew as a freshman 
that I would end up going to 
NCAAs individually my senior 
year, I would have been pretty 
amazed, he said.
In the future, Newby plans 
on training for marathons; the 
longest race he has run up to 
date is a half marathon. Its 
a completely different beast, 
Newby claims, its a mental 
battle way more than a physical one.
As Newby ends his career 
on a high note, Schnepf is 
making leaps and bounds as a 
sophomore.
On Saturday, Schnepf ?nished the 6k course with a 
time of 23:17, placing 189th 
out of 280 competitors.
Although her time was not 
a season best, the race was a 
great learning experience for 
her.
Schnepf started running 
several years before high 
school because her father was 
a runner in college. 
While training for races, 
Schnepf puts her best foot 
forward though is constantly 
worried about getting injured. 
Because then you cant run 
and you cant get any better, 
she said. Luckily, the sophomore had an injury-free spring 
and summer, setting a solid 
foundation for her great season.
The thought of qualifying individually hadnt even 
crossed Schnepfs mind. I 
thought as a team we had a 
really good chance of making 
it together, but there are so 
many moving parts that you 
can never really predict that, 
she said.
I wasnt even sure that I 
had made it to regionals, let 
alone nationals, Schnepf 
said. I dont want to get my 
hopes up and end up being 
disappointed.
After her success this season, Schnepf is destined to be 
a team captain, but she is going to wait her turn. I think 
we have some really great upperclassmen that deserve to 
be captain next year, Schnepf 
said. 
She is excited about the 
fresh talent on the team: 
They should know they have 
a lot of potential.
As Newby ends his career 
on a high note, Schnepf represents the future of the womens cross country team.
File photos by Jason Chen
Sophomore Rekha Schnepf (left) ?nished 189th out of 280 racers in Saturdays NCAA Championships held at Hanover College, and senior Josh Newby (right) ?nished 53rd out of 275 overall and placed ?fth in the conference.  

---------------------------------------------------

Bhangra in the Burgh
Eight competitive teams converge on Pittsburgh, balancing modern and traditional styles  B8
11.25.13 Volume 108, Issue 13

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
Drown out your familys fights this Thanksgiving 
by laughing at this weeks comics.
11
The Tartan . Box 119 . UC Suite 103 . Carnegie Mellon University . 5000 Forbes Ave . Pittsburgh, PA 15213 . www.thetartan.org .  2013 The Tartan
PUBLISHER Jennifer Coloma EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Josh Smith
PILLBOX EDITOR Rachel Cohen ASSISTANT PILLBOX EDITOR Joey Peiser 
COMICS EDITOR Kairavi Chahal PHOTO EDITOR Kate Groschner 
COPY MANAGER Evan Kahn COVER Jason Chen
8
7
regulars...
Advice
Everything you need to know about print 
quotas and Thanksgiving travel.
3
...diversions
...this week only
Shearwater
The band fails to capitalize on past successes 
with its cover album Fellow Travelers.
3
Doctor Who
The popular television show turned 50 this 
week and celebrated with a special episode.
4
Craft festival
The I Made It! Market festival offers visitors a 
different shopping experience.
5
Potted Potter
The show that condenses the entire Harry 
Potter saga into 70 comic minutes.
6
Binge TV
A selection of television fare perfect for long 
stretches of completely sedentary viewing.
7
Bhangra
The seventh-annual Bhangra in the Burgh 
brings a colorful display to Soldiers & Sailors.
8
Bob Dylan
New Like a Rolling Stone video is an artistic, 
as well as technological, achievement.
10
Puzzles
If you cant solve these puzzles, what are you 
even doing with your life?
13
Horoscopes
Look for a hidden message in this weeks 
horoscopes.
14
Calendar
Consult the calendar for upcoming and 
ongoing events in the arts and culture scene.
15
35

---------------------------------------------------

music 
pillbox 11.25.133
Shearwater disappoints
Indie rock bands newest release is poorly timed
Indie rock band Shearwater had finally made a name 
for itself with its previous three albums. 2008s Rook 
got the artsy, nature-themed band some critical 
acclaim; The Golden Archipelago built on that 
success and expanded the bands instrumental and 
color palates; and last years Animal Joy was the 
most commercially successful. The album freed up 
the bands primitive and primal sensibilities with its 
Andrew-Bird-meets-Bruce-Springsteen feel.
The three albums contain some of the best indie 
music produced in the past decade  lead singer 
Jonathan Meiburgs voice makes Bon Iver sound like 
a whining schoolboy  but Shearwater hasnt yet 
done anything to put its name on the map. Meiburg 
and his cohorts are still working on a new solo 
album to build on their triumphs.
In the meantime, we get Fellow Travelers, a cover 
album that does little good for the band. If anything, 
it ensures that Shearwaters next album wont 
receive as much attention as it should.
Granted, the albums theme has merit. The band 
covered songs by current influences instead of older 
ones: Each song on the album belongs to a group 
Shearwater toured with. Meiburgs arrangements 
scream forgettable, however, and so do the songs 
the band chose to cover.
Fellow Travelers starts out strong, with the closest 
Shearwaters ever come to a rock anthem: Xiu Xius 
I Luv The Valley OH!! Meiburg channels his inner 
Josh Homme from Queens of the Stone Age, but 
its nowhere near as thrilling or well paced as any 
upbeat track from Animal Joy.
St. Vincents Cheerleader wins the award for worst 
song choice. She has dozens of songs that would be 
better fit for Shearwaters aesthetic, but instead they 
took one of her most well-known tunes and took it 
too close to the country genre for comfort.
F****d Up Life is another subpar track, and offers 
an odd experience. Hearing the f-bomb repeatedly 
fall out of Meiburgs magnificent mouth is like 
eating pudding from a bowl lined with garlic salt. 
Its distasteful and unnatural. The bands sound is 
often so pure that expletives sully them, making 
them seem cheap.
This isnt to say that Fellow Travelers doesnt 
have good songs  David Thomas Broughtons 
Ambiguity is the simplest, most introspective, 
and most effective on the album. A repeating chord 
progression in the harp and a fairly static synth pad 
are all Meiburg needs to float and toy with lines like, 
Such selfishnesses trivialize any tenderness/As the 
coffee commands the torture of my bowels.
The drum and bass on a few of the tracks  F****d 
Up Life in particular  may not be processed, 
but it sure sounds like it. Even for a cover album, 
this departure from what the band is good at  
especially while theyre still developing that sound 
 doesnt seem like a great idea.
Shearwaters main appeal lies in its excessively 
organic sound. Every song is like a journey through 
a different expanse of wilderness: a mad rush 
through the deep forest (You As You Were, Animal 
Joy), a trek over glacial peaks (The Snow Leopard, 
Rook), or a passage through the Strait of Magellan 
(Castaways, The Golden Archipelago). Without 
the visual and poetic appeal of its own music, all 
Shearwater has to offer is a pretty voice.
Shearwater would have been better off storing 
Fellow Travelers away until its next solo album was 
finished. This throwaway LP ruins the momentum 
it had carefully built up over the past decade; 
hopefully, the bands next venture can put it back on 
track.
Evan Kahn | Copy Manager
Courtesy of Michael Gallacher via Flickr
Advice for awkward people
Hey Ryan and Matt,
I was bolting to the printer 
in Baker yesterday so I 
could turn in my paper for 
my next class when I saw 
this student hanging out 
in front of the printer just 
losing it. There was about 
a book and a halfs worth 
of printed pages in the 
tray, and tears were just 
streaming down her face. 
I felt sorry for her but I 
didnt want to intrude; 
I just wanted to get my 
paper and get to class. 
Am I a bad person for not 
showing some kind of 
caring or concern?
Printing Reaction Is Not 
Totally Qool, Unusually 
Odious Tryst Arises
Dear PRINT QUOTA,
We recommend against 
worrying about the printers 
too much; they take all kinds 
of abuse throughout the 
semester. Matt has been 
known to shout obscenities 
and kick the printers. 
Besides, Carnegie Mellon 
gives students $40 worth 
of print quota; the printers 
should be designed to 
handle that kind of abuse. 
As for the person crying in 
front of the printer, shes 
probably printing off all 
of Blackboard ahead of 
Thanksgiving break so she 
can get a jump on studying 
for ?nals. We all do it at one 
point in the semester, mostly 
to use up that $40 of printing 
allotment. Were sure she 
broke down because it ?nally 
occurred to her how much 
she needs to study for ?nals.
Or maybe she just feels 
guilty for printing onesided pages,
Matt & Ryan
Matt and Ryan,
Im heading home this 
Tuesday for Thanksgiving 
and I was wondering 
if you have any travel 
advice for me. I want to 
make sure I make it home 
in time for food and, more 
importantly, sleep. Ive 
never traveled on my own 
before, so any words of 
wisdom are appreciated!
Thanks,
Scared Of Vehicular 
Escape, Really Young 
Traveler Is Readily 
Eagerly Departing
Dear SO VERY TIRED,
Well, since you didnt 
mention how youre getting 
home, well have to cover all 
methods of transport. 
A general rule of thumb is to 
leave earlier than you think 
you need to. Whether youre 
driving, ?ying, or taking a bus 
or train, you should get out 
the door sooner than you 
think you need to. Especially 
the week of Thanksgiving. 
Again, especially the week 
of Thanksgiving. You know 
who is going to be on the 
road? Everyone else in the 
United States. Your peers, 
your teachers, your RAs, 
and everyone else will be 
conducting a mass exodus 
from campus starting around 
noon on Tuesday. You will 
be but a speck in an ocean 
of people who want to get 
home just as much as you 
do. The line at the bus stop 
at Forbes and Morewood 
Avenues is ridiculous. Spend 
the night there if you have to.
Good luck. Youll need it,
Ryan & Matt
Need advice? Send queries 
to advice@thetartan.org.
About print quota and Thanksgiving travel
Lead singer Jonathan Meiburg lends a beautiful 
voice to an otherwise unremarkable release.

---------------------------------------------------

4television
pillbox 11.25.13
Warning: This article contains spoilers for The Day of the 
Doctor.
Fifty years of traveling through time and space 
culminated in a celebration last Saturday for the man 
known only as the Doctor.
The British television classic Doctor Who celebrated its 
golden anniversary with a week of interviews, behindthe-scenes specials, a TV movie, and a Google doodle, all 
leading up to the 50th-anniversary special The Day of the 
Doctor in the worlds largest simulcast of a TV drama.
The special saw the convergence of three regenerations 
of the Doctor: the current 11th (Matt Smith), the 10th 
(David Tennant), and the newly discovered lost 
regeneration (John Hurt). They join together to stop the 
Zygons, a shape-shifting alien race from the shows 
past, as they try to invade Earth to replace their home 
planet, which was destroyed at the very beginning of the 
legendary Time War.
The Zygon invasion is only the secondary plot, however, 
as Hurts lost Doctor must face the choice that forever 
changes the man he will come to be. He must choose 
to either use the catastrophic device known as The 
Moment, destroying his race and ending the Time War, 
or allow the war to continue ravaging the universe.
The Moment has a mind of its own, as it made itself 
known in the form of former companion Rose Tyler (Billie 
Piper), also known as the Bad Wolf. She facilitates the 
reunion of Doctor regenerations to show what the man 
will become because of the choice he makes.
Filled with throwbacks to the very beginning of the 
show, the episode perfectly encapsulates what makes 
Doctor Who so timeless. There are moments of humor, 
especially interactions betwen the Doctors, and 
moments of poignancy, as the elder regenerations re?ect 
on the horrifying decision the Doctor had made 400 
years before.
Among the familiar faces present in the episode, Hurt 
stands out. His characterization of the Doctor as a 
crotchety old man is the perfect foil to the childlike 
natures of his later selves. The only disappointment is 
that this episode is all we have of the War Doctor, as he 
was called in the minisode prequel released earlier last 
week.
In the end, all three Doctors  with a push from 
impossible current companion Clara Oswald (Jenna 
Coleman)  choose not to change history: Together 
they have the time and power to save their home planet 
of Gallifrey and all its inhabitants, which forces their 
enemy, the Daleks, to destroy themselves by accident.
All 13 incarnations of the Doctor work together to freeze 
Gallifrey in a moment of time using Timelord technology. 
The result is something that looks like a 3-D painting, 
which ends up in Londons National Gallery.
The sequence showing the Doctors working together to 
save Gallifrey includes some major surprises, as quick 
shots of the ninth (Christopher Eccleston) and newly 
announced 12th (Peter Capaldi) indicate that every 
single incarnation of the Doctor is in attendance.
Compared to the narrative mess that was seasons ?ve 
and six, showrunner Steven Moffat creates a story that 
feels complete, while still setting up for the future. The 
episode is ?lled with the essence of what Doctor Who 
is, but its the ?nal minutes that just about sum up the 
storied history of the show and give it a push toward the 
future. Fifth Doctor Tom Baker makes the ?nal surprise, 
showing up as the curator of the National Gallery and 
urging the 11th Doctor to search for Gallifrey.
The ?nal shot shows all versions of the Doctor standing 
together, punctuating the episode with the memory 
of those lost and hinting at future excitement. Its a 
beautiful ending to the celebration of a show infused 
with hope that has inspired the world for 50 years and 
will surely continue to do so for many more to come.
Mairad Pettit | Staffwriter
Courtesy of Wikimedia Commons
In the Doctor Who anniversary special, actors David 
Tennant (left), Matt Smith (center). and John Hurt 
(above) came together as the 10th, 11th, and newfound lost regenerations of the Doctor,
respectively.  
Doctor Who celebrates series anniversary
The British television favorite commemorates success of the franchise in classic style
Courtesy of Wikimedia Commons
Courtesy of Wikimedia Commons

---------------------------------------------------

community
pillbox 11.25.135
Craft fair promotes homespun holiday gifts
Pittsburgh-based I Made It! Market provides exposure for local businesses and artists
With the holiday shopping season just around the corner, 
a bubbling craft market set up shop Friday and Saturday 
afternoon in the Waterfronts shopping district.
Eighty artists, crafters, and designers ?lled two vacant 
retail storefronts with beautiful jewelry, pottery, allnatural soaps and scents, cozy knitted hats, original 
artwork and prints, adorable baby clothes, toys, and 
everything in between. The event drew a large crowd 
of eager shoppers, many of them families with babies in 
tow, to ?nd special gifts for loved ones  and to try to 
resist buying too much for themselves.
Ensuring that nobody went hungry, My Goodies Bakery 
enticed shoppers with vegan and gluten-free baked 
goods, a stop by Aunt Carols Gourmet Dips allowed for 
plenty samples of tasty dips, and The Sweet Spot came 
equipped with chocolate to make everything better.
A number of artisans had Pittsburgh-speci?c products, 
such as Chuck Beards Abandoned Pittsburgh 
photography focusing on old mills and buildings, Carol 
Skingerss prints and tiles of a map of Schenley Park, and 
city-inspired T-shirts by Steel City Cotton Works.
The pop-up craft event was organized by I Made It! 
Market (IMI), a Pittsburgh-based indie-craft marketplace. 
Self-described as a fantastical, nomadic, pop up 
handmade shopping place, IMIs main mission is to 
create opportunities for Pittsburghs artisan community 
to sell its wares to the public. In the process, the 
organization aims to create a more cohesive community 
of crafters that mobilizes to create real change in 
Pittsburgh through craft.
I Made It! Market is organized largely by business 
development and communications guru Carrie Nardini, 
as well as Carnegie Mellon alumna Nina Marie Barbuto 
(CFA 06), who co-founded IMI with Nardini back in 
2006. Nardini, who holds a masters in business and a 
B.A. in English from the University of Pittsburgh, saw 
a need for business development resources for the 
increasing number of Pittsburgh artisans and crafters.
The movement toward self-sustaining local economies 
rather than multinational businesses is not a new 
one, but it has gained support and fresh energy in the 
last decade with a renewed national focus on local 
businesses and the emergence of e-commerce 
sites such as Etsy, an online craft marketplace that 
facilitates a direct customer-artist relationship. Although 
there is growing interest in handmade works, small 
businesses and artisans still have extreme dif?culty 
competing in the mainstream marketplace in large part 
because they cant compete against mass-produced 
price de?ation. In addition, many one-man businesses 
have limited resources to market themselves to a large 
audience.
IMI allows businesses to get around these obstacles by 
effectively doing the media, publicity, and organizational 
aspects of putting on an event to draw shoppers. As a 
result, a growing movement of entrepreneurial artists 
and crafters has quietly developed into a uniquely wellorganized community in Pittsburgh. 
Crucial to the markets success has been its collaborative 
attitude in building relationships with other nonpro?ts 
in Pittsburgh  such as the Three Rivers Arts Festival, 
The Childrens Museum of Pittsburgh, Cotton Factory, 
and Southside Works  which allows IMI to connect 
with the Pittsburgh community and draw in a wider net 
of customers. In addition to putting on craft shows, IMI 
works with small creative businesses that need help 
marketing their ideas, making websites, and promoting 
themselves. IMI also collaborates with groups interested 
in hosting their own craft fairs by bringing in artists 
and organizing the events. Workshops are available for 
people of all ages.
With the madness of Black Friday just around the 
corner, a focus on buying local handmade gifts this 
year is refreshing. In a society too often overcome by 
cheap trends, craft shows remind us of the innate value 
of a product made with care. The artisan quality, the 
thought that goes into every last detail, and the personal 
connection you can get when buying a handmade item 
is worth the extra few dollars.
If youre interested in learning more about I Made It! 
Market, check out its website at imadeitmarket.com and 
come out to the next craft fair on Dec. 15, Last Minute 
Shopping at The Boyd Community Center.
Sarah Moss-Horwitz | Staffwriter
Sarah Moss-Horwitz | Junior Photographer
Waterfront shoppers were treated to a varied selection of items from local businesses and artists to give their 
holiday shopping a unique flavor.
The pop-up craft market offered Waterfront shoppers 
a wealth of homemade gifts for the upcoming holiday 
season.
Sarah Moss-Horwitz | Junior Photographer

---------------------------------------------------

6theater
pillbox 11.25.13
Imagine seeing the entire saga of Harry Potter in a 
hilarious, 70-minute performance with only two actors. 
It sounds impossible without Hermiones Time-Turner. 
However, the muggle production Potted Potter  The 
Unauthorized Harry Experience  A Parody by Dan and 
Jeff, which played at Pittsburghs Byham Theater from 
last Wednesday to Sunday, did just that.
Writers Daniel Clarkson and Jeff Turner originally came 
up with the idea for the show in 2005 when they were 
asked to create a performance to entertain the crowds 
of eager fans awaiting the midnight release of the sixth 
book in the series, Harry Potter and the Half-Blood 
Prince. Clarkson and Turners show related the ?rst ?ve 
books in ?ve minutes. A year later, the show grew to an 
hour in length, and eventually included all seven books 
in the performance henceforth known as Potted Potter.
Delme Thomas, who plays every character in the 
show except for Harry (and even puts on the glasses 
occasionally), said the show has been an unexpected 
turn for him. After his agent found the audition, he said, 
I auditioned for the piece and I actually didnt think I 
was going to get it.
Thomas has been a Harry Potter fan since he picked 
up the ?rst book shortly after the ?rst two had been 
released. It was the only book in the shop that looked 
fairly interesting and I got hooked on it from that, 
he said. Now not only an avid fan and a Huf?epuff 
according to Pottermore.coms of?cial test, Thomas  
shifts roles from Hermione Granger to Professor Snape to 
He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named.
Its always fun to play the baddies, Thomas said. The 
goodies are rubbish. He has been playing both types 
of roles in eight weekly shows every week since March 
when he started the tour in London.
The good thing about the show, Thomas said, is its 
a comedy improv show, so you take what you get and 
roll with it. According to him, 70 percent of the show is 
scripted. Thomas and his counterpart, James Percy (who 
plays Harry for the majority of the show), improvise the 
other 30 percent.
The two make an excellent pair onstage. Thomass 
contagious enthusiasm and physical humor are balanced 
out by Percys dry wit and adherence to the story line. 
Percy moves the story along while Thomas keeps the 
audience engaged, constantly eliciting applause, cheers, 
chants, and jeers throughout the show.
The improvised parts were easy to identify as unscripted 
because they occasionally even sent the actors into 
?ts of laughter. We usually try to make each other 
laugh as much as possible, Thomas said. Were very 
professional. Its the classic two-man comedy.
Thomas said the most fun part of the show for him was 
when he engaged the audience in a game of Quidditch. 
Its my moment where I really interact with the 
audience, he said.
This version of Quidditch requires less ?ying on brooms 
and avoiding bludgers, however, and more bouncing a 
beach ball between audience members and trying to get 
it through a lit up hoop while two children (volunteers 
from the audience) chase the golden snitch (Percy 
in a ridiculous costume) around the stage. It was quite 
a sight to see grown adults laughing, cheering, and 
chanting Gryf?ndor or Slytherin while whacking a 
beach ball across an auditorium.
Overall, Potted Potter was a magical experience that 
muggles, squibs, wizards, witches, members of the 
Order, and Death Eaters alike could enjoy together. For 
more information, visit www.pottedpotter.com.
Jenna Bodnar | Junior Staffwriter
Ten points for Potted Potter production 
Clarkson and Turner bring Quidditch and improvised comedy to the Pittsburgh stage
Screenshot courtesy of pottedpotter.com
Potted Potter  The Unauthorized Harry Experience  A Parody by Dan and Jeff played for Pittsburgh audiences at the Byham Theater last Wednesday through Sunday.

---------------------------------------------------

television 
pillbox 11.25.137
The holiday season is fast approaching, with 
Thanksgiving this week and winter break just around 
the corner. Were all ready for some time away from 
problem sets and papers  but as wonderful as it 
sounds, you cant spend the entire break sleeping. 
So give your mind a break and treat yourself to one of 
technologys greatest gifts: the TV marathon binge.
But what should you watch? Luckily, I spent the 
semester staying caught up, just so you can reap the 
bene?ts. Check out some of these shows to beat your 
winter blues.
 
American Horror Story: Coven 
FX
The third season of this show is all about witches. New 
Orleans sets a luscious cultural backdrop to a story full 
of witchy teenagers, immortality, and the struggles of 
life and power. While this installment isnt as overtly 
frightening as the ?rst two, it has that spooky tension 
that arises when things go bump in the night. While 
youre at it, go ahead and watch or rewatch the ?rst two 
seasons, because why not?
 
Pretty Little Liars 
ABC Family
What better way to relax than by torturing your mind 
with crazy plot twists and turns, only some of which 
could have been thoroughly thought out? Pretty Little 
Liars is the perfect combination of a crazy murder 
mystery and vapid teenage show, the likes of which can 
only be found on ABC Family. Since the show comes 
back in January, why not get caught up now while 
youve actually got the time? 
 
Sherlock 
PBS
If you havent seen all six episodes of this modernday TV adaptation of Sherlock Holmes, youre doing 
something wrong. Each episode clocks in at about 90 
minutes, making it perfect TV fare for a night in from the 
cold weather (or the sunny California weather, if youre 
one of those people). The highly anticipated third season 
makes its stateside debut in January, so start watching 
now and throw your theories about the shows return 
into the ring. If youre really into Holmes adaptations, 
also check out CBSs Elementary. Gender-swapped 
Watson is a true gift to television and its Holmes/Watson 
relationship is one of the sassiest around.
Parenthood 
NBC
If you want a show that will leave you an ugly sobbing 
mess at the end of almost every episode, then check out 
this family drama. So much happens every season, its 
almost like Degrassi for adults. Seriously, if you dont cry 
at least three times per season, you might be an actual 
robot. Plus, its currently in its ?fth season, so theres 
plenty to binge on.
Reign 
The CW
Dont be upset if you start Reign expecting a show thats 
accountable to reality or that features less-than-stunning 
people; its on The CW, so clearly youd be out of luck. 
But if you can look past glaring historical inaccuracies 
and frankly ridiculous love triangles, Reign is the kind 
of brainless, beautiful fun thats been missing on TV 
since Gossip Girl ended. Beware, though: Reign only 
just started its ?rst season in October, so you might get 
crazily addicted and then run out of episodes to watch.
Scandal
ABC
If you think of binging as watching one, maybe two 
episodes at a time, then a) youre doing it wrong; and b) 
you dont watch Scandal. Theres a twist in just about 
every episode, which makes it supremely addictive. If 
you can stand to watch fewer than ?ve episodes in one 
sitting then you deserve an award. This season has 
been especially juicy and makes all the drama of the 
?rst two seem like childs play. If you ?nish Scandal and 
are looking for more of that presidential/political drama, 
check out The West Wing. Its an oldie, but a goodie.
Parks and Recreation 
NBC
The ?rst season is kind of rough, but Parks and Rec hit 
its stride in the second season and is now one of the 
best comedies on TV. Amy Poehler is entertaining as 
Leslie Knope, but the motley crew from Pawnee, Ind., is 
what really makes this show comedy gold. Who would 
have thought that the ins and outs of a small-town parks 
and recreation department could be so much fun? NBC 
excels at creating strong ensemble casts, so check out 
Poehlers partner-in-crime Tina Fey in 30 Rock or Steve 
Carell in The Of?ce for more workplace fun.
Veronica Mars
The CW
Veronica Mars is a modern-day Nancy Drew, kicking 
butt and taking names as she works to solve her best 
friends murder and various small-time crimes in her 
hometown of Neptune, Calif., even while she navigates 
the shark-infested waters of dating the 1 percent. Shes 
exactly who you wish you were deep down inside. 
Youll laugh, youll cry, and youll cheer on Veronica as 
she does her thing as basically the coolest person ever. 
Watch all three seasons and then get ready for the fanfunded movie, coming next spring.
Broadchurch 
BBC America
This is the most serious binge-watch suggestion. 
Broadchurch started airing right at the beginning of 
the semester, so you might have missed it. The eightepisode ?rst season follows an investigation into the 
murder of a young boy in a small, rural town in England. 
It gets pretty heavy at times and is incredibly emotional, 
so keep the tissues handy. Well acted and powerful, 
Broadchurch is something you do not want to miss. If 
youre into BBC America and want something a little less 
emotionally charged, Orphan Black was the standout hit 
from the network this year, and both shows have been 
renewed for a second season.
Mairad Pettit | Staffwriter
Who needs family when you have TV?
Broadchurch, Sherlock, and Scandal are among the shows to catch up on over break
Courtesy of Wikimedia Commons
Benedict Cumberbatch will return as Sherlock in the BBCs adaptation of the classic book series.

---------------------------------------------------

The seventh annual Bhangra in the Burgh (BIB) 
competition was held at Soldiers & Sailors Memorial 
Hall last Saturday night. Although only seven years old, 
BIB has consistently brought together some of the best 
Bhangra teams in the North America and has sold out 
multiple shows.
It was obviously a really fun show, said Pranita 
Ramakrishnan, sophomore information systems major 
and BIB co-chair. Aside from the ?ashy dancing, 
however, the co-chairs were all most excited about 
getting the community involved in and excited about 
Bhangra, a dance style for which they all share passion.
This years competition differed from previous ones 
in that it was promoted accessibly all over campus. 
Before the show we tried to make the PR really fun, 
Ramakrishnan said. Anyone who walked past Doherty 
Hall the weeks preceding the show can attest to the 
energetic music that blasted while committee members 
sold tickets for both the event and the after-party.
This year, the committee also welcomed Indian emcee 
Jus Reign, a famous Punjabi comedian and YouTube 
sensation. As host for the show, Jus Reign kept the fun 
alive between sets as he held impromptu Skype video 
calls with his brother and joked about the lack of white 
people in the audience.
On Saturday, Pittsburgh welcomed eight competitive 
teams: the University of California, Berkeleys Bhangra 
team (Cal Bhangra), Columbia Universitys Bhangra team 
(Columbia Bhangra), Cornell Universitys Bhangra team 
(Cornell Bhangra), First Class Bhangra (FCB), George 
Mason Universitys Bhangra team (GMU Bhangra), 
Shaan Mutiyaaran Di Bhangra Club, the University 
of Virginas Di Shaan, and Virginia Commonwealth 
Universitys Bhangra team (VCU Bhangra). Also 
featured were ?ve local exhibition acts: Carnegie 
Mellon Universitys Chak de Bhangra, the University of 
Pennsylvanias Penn Masti, the University of Pittsburghs 
PantheRaas, Carnegie Mellons Deewane, and Carnegie 
Mellons Soulstylz.
Maintaining its roots in Punjabi folk dancing, modern 
Bhangra has been transformed into a lively dance style 
that hints at hip-hop and other modern in?uences. The 
teams performing last Saturday all put on technically 
stunning performances, the main discrepancies between 
the acts being the level of modern in?uence.
Columbia Bhangra started the night off strong. The 
group put on one of the more modernized performances 
and was able to energize the crowd, setting a good vibe 
for the rest of the night.
Crowd favorite FCB, an all-male Pittsburgh-area Bhangra 
group, brought a similarly modernized performance, 
easily the most dynamic and energetic performance 
of the night. The energy was evident before the dance 
even started; the dancers pumped up the audience 
by jumping excitedly up and down as they took the 
stage in dim lighting. The crowd cheered continuously 
throughout the performance.
The last competitive team to take the stage, UVA Di 
Shaan, ended the competition with another highenergy dance with obvious modern in?uence. Their 
performance started off with the most exciting light 
show of the night with rainbow colors ?ashing along 
with the beat. The fun didnt end there, however: The 
performance was once again on the less traditional side, 
infusing techno music and hard-hitting hip-hop moves, 
and the choreography was both technically challenging 
and engaging for the audience.
Emphasizing one of the modern styles that has had a 
great impact on Bhangra, Carnegie Mellons elite hiphop team Soulstylz also made an appearance. Although 
not so ?ashy and colorful as the Bhangra dances, 
Soulstylz provided a refreshing and creative set that left 
the audience wanting to dance along.
Cornell Bhangra, who placed second at last years 
Bhangra in the Burgh, came out with choreography that 
had moments of obvious modern in?uence balanced 
with a traditional overall feel. Cornell boasts one of the 
oldest Bhangra teams that competed, and the members 
experience was very obvious. The performance brought 
the nights energy to a whole new level and the crowd 
roared before the dancers even took the stage. Their 
timing was impeccable; they truly danced as one 
cohesive group.
VCU Bhangra, a newcomer to the BIB stage, performed 
a similarly balanced dance. The teams set, with its 
relevance and synchronization, produced a comparably 
great crowd reaction.
Another exhibition act, Penn Masti broke up the ?nal 
run of Bhangra performances with its South Asian jazz 
fusion-styled performance. Their choreography was 
technical and captivating, at times very sexy and other 
times emulating a traditional folk dance.
Also demonstrating the in?uence modern culture has 
had on tradition, Deewane  Carnegie Mellons all-male 
South Asian fusion a cappella group  performed a 
short set. The team offered a captivating mash-up of a 
traditional song and an instantly recognizable 90s hit 
the Backstreet Boys I Want It That Way.
feature
pillbox 11.25.1398feature
pillbox 11.25.13
Bhangra in the Burgh fuses modern styles with traditional dance
Eight competitive teams perform at Oaklands Soldiers & Sailors Memorial Hall as part of the seventh annual cultural event
by Kelsey Scott | Operations Manaager[]
Performing directly after Columbia, GMU Bhangras 
performance was starkly more traditional. They were the 
?rst performance group of the night to bring a dholi, a 
performer who plays a traditional Punjabi drum, into the 
mix.
SMD Bhangra Club, the only all-female performance 
of the night, also came out strong and performed its 
traditional piece with the most excited and passionate 
faces seen at the competition. The dances musicality 
was nearly unmatched in the competition.
Last years BIB champion, Cal Bhangra, kicked off the 
second half of the show with an analogous musically 
conscious and highly entertaining performance. 
Although it didnt receive the same roaring applause 
as last year, crowd members happily watched the 
heartwarming performance with bellies full of samosas.
A performance by Pitts PantheRaas continued the 
theme of traditional Indian dance, but broke up the 
Bhangra ?ow with a Garba-Raas styled dance. Garba and 
Raas are both traditional Indian dances from the Guijarat 
and Vrindavan regions of India respectively. Their 
performance included similarly ostentatious costumes 
and the dancing had some similarities to Bhangra, but it 
brought a distinct Indian ?air to the night.
While the scores were still being tallied backstage, 
Carnegie Mellons Chak de Bhangra took the stage as 
many of the performers peers cheered them on from the 
audience. At the end of the performance, the entire Chak 
de Bhangra family stormed the stage, marking the peak 
of the nights energy level.
After the Carnegie Mellon performance, much of the 
crowd began to ?le out while the judges were still 
deliberating. When the awards were ?nally presented, 
crowd favorite FCB took ?rst place followed by Cornell 
Bhangra, the runner-up from last years competition. 
GMU Bhangra secured third place.
Clearly there was no favored balance of tradition 
and modern in?uence when it came to the judging 
perspective, with a modern, mixed, and traditional team 
claiming each of the top spots respectively. The night 
featured a great blend of traditional culture and modern 
fun, creating a strikingly colorful, energetic, and musical 
experience.
Kelsey Scott | Operations ManagerColumbia Bhangra (left) opened the competition with a modernized take on traditional styles, while VCU Bhangra (center and right) put on a balanced performance. 
A hip-hop performance by Soulstylz (top left) broke 
with tradition, while the Pitt PantheRaas (top right) 
performed a more conventional dance. Carnegie 
Mellons team (center and bottom) danced to cheers 
from the audience while the judges tallied the votes.
                  Jason Chen | Staff Photographer
Kelsey Scott | Operations Manager
Jason Chen | Staff PhotographerJason Chen | Staff Photographer

---------------------------------------------------

10music
pillbox 11.25.13
Released on his website last Tuesday, Bob Dylans 
Like a Rolling Stone ?nally has an of?cial music video, 
and theres a good chance that its like nothing youve 
ever seen. Instead of being one video, there are 16 
independent videos that viewers can actively navigate, 
each featuring Dylans song as the soundtrack. The video 
is meant to simulate the experience of channel sur?ng, 
with each video a recreation of standard cable fare with 
actors lip-syncing the lyrics while acting as one would 
expect given their respective roles. A news anchor sits 
at a desk surrounded by computer screens and Price 
is Right contestants spin the big wheel with sparkling 
numbers. Women from a Bachelor-like show claw at each 
others hair and the hosts of History Channels Pawn 
Stars inspect an old guitar and appear to haggle over 
dollar amounts.
The only thing that appears out of place among these 
incredibly authentic recreations is that everyone appears 
to be lip-syncing to Like a Rolling Stone without 
realizing theyre singing a song. According to a Rolling 
Stone article, to rehearse scenes, actors would speak 
authentic dialogue and then the Dylan lyrics would 
be substituted in at the last minute. For example, the 
woman hosting a mockup cooking show rehearsed 
by actually explaining the recipe she is preparing 
and then replaced the recipe with lyrics once she had 
mastered how she would explain the recipe. This kind 
of commitment is evident across every channel and 
the effect is incredibly surreal, especially when placed 
in particular contexts such as a reporter covering a 
resurgence in the Occupy protests and a mockup of the 
Home Shopping Network. The transition from channel to 
channel is incredibly seamless, with the actors mouths 
always picking up exactly where the last channel left off 
in the song.
Directed by 27-year-old Vania Heymann, the music video 
is both a technological and artistic achievement. The 
available channels are carefully selected as subjects to 
be indicted by the songs contempt. Flipping through, 
one begins to garner a sense that nearly everything that 
makes up and de?nes Western civilization is indicative 
of cultural regression instead of progression. Our cultural 
leaders  everyone from politicians to rap stars  are 
like actors that are reading a bad script. The music video 
puts these actors up on a stage and throws vegetables at 
them, with the channel depicting Dylan himself playing 
the song in 1965 the only one worthy of applause.
Bob Dylans Like a Rolling Stone  one of many of 
his songs jockeying for the position of his signature 
tune  was already on the cutting edge when it 
was originally released 48 years ago, when Dylan, 
the hero of the traditional folk scene of the early 60s, 
used it to shatter his previous public image. The 
hard snap of Bobby Greggs drum kit combined with 
Mike Bloom?elds stinging blues guitar is a killer 
sound, but was only made possible by breaking the 
ultimate commandment of folk music: playing electric 
instruments. Bob Dylan bridged the gap between folk 
and blues and thus changed American popular music for 
the better by breaking the rules and adapting to the new 
technologies available to musicians. The music video 
is a testament to the songs innovative spirit, and proof 
that its still just as relevant in 2013 as it was in 1965.
Music videos have come a long way during their 
relatively short existence. On Aug. 1, 1981, the TV 
channel MTV debuted, forever changing how we 
interact with music. At ?rst artists opposed this idea, 
believing their popularity would be based more on how 
good they looked in front of the camera instead of their 
music. As the medium matured, however, directors 
began to emerge that could create videos to compliment 
a song rather than to create entirely new experiences 
by themselves. Spike Jonze, Samuel Bayer, Hype 
Williams, Jonathan Dayton, and Valerie Faris all helped 
elevate the music video to become something more 
than a marketing tool by creating short ?lms that truly 
are works of art. See videos for Nirvana, Red Hot Chili 
Peppers, Kanye West, Beastie Boys, and Arcade Fire as 
examples of their work. With his video for Like a Rolling 
Stone, Vania Heymann has pushed the music video 
even further and has demonstrated the near-endless 
possibilities for the form. Now the question is, what 
comes next?
Joey Peiser | Assistant Pillbox Editor 
Music video transforms Dylan classic
Heymanns music video offers interactive elements, artistic innovation, biting commentary
The opening frame of Heymanns video invites viewers 
to use the interactive channel-flipping feature.
Screenshot courtesy of video.bobdylan.com
The actors in the music video adaptation of Bob Dylans Like a Rolling Stone range from guest experts on the History Channel to contributors on MTVs Girl Code. 
Screenshots courtesy of video.bobdylan.com

---------------------------------------------------

comics
pillbox 11.25.1311
Kiltie As Charged by Charlie Shulman and Kairavi Chahal
cshulman@andrew.cmu.edu
Door by Doghouse Diaries
doghousediaries@gmail.comthedoghousediaries.com

---------------------------------------------------

12comics
pillbox 11.25.13
Poorly Drawn Lines by Reza Farazmand
poorlydrawnlines@gmail.compoorlydrawnlines.com
Piled Higher and Deeper by Jorge Cham
jorge@phdcomics.comphdcomics.com
Thanksgiving by Zach Bauer and Nick Casper
zbauer@andrew.cmu.edu

---------------------------------------------------

puzzles
pillbox 11.25.1313
Solutions from Nov. 18
CrosswordEasy DifficultyHard Difficulty
Kakuro Puzzle: Easy Difficulty Sudoku Puzzle: Medium Difficulty
Sudoku courtesy of
www.opensky.ca/~jdhildeb/software/sudokugen/Kakuro courtesy of www.KrazyDad.com
Fill all empty squares using numbers 1 to 9 so the sum of 
each row equals the clue on its left, and the sum of each 
column equals the clue above it. No number may be used 
in the same row or column more than once.

---------------------------------------------------

14horoscopes
pillbox 11.25.13
1. Actress Turner
2. Iowa State city
3. Meets ones maker
4. Firstborn
5. Cool!
6. Spanish painter
7. Rich soil
8. Forth
9. Light wood
10. Broadway opening
11. Before long
12. Catch
13. Actor Beatty
22. Breastbones
24. Flavor
26. Sleep issue
27. High times?
28. In a fitting way
30. Cheering word
31. Whos there? response
33. Family man
34. Beethoven dedicatee
35. Dressed to the ___
36. Wise ones
38. Vagabond woman
39. Brother of Moses
41. ___-Mart
42. Russert of Meet the Press
47. Wrestling hold
48. Almost
50. Hawaiian greeting
52. Peer
53. Persian fairy
54. Asian sea
55. Be dependent
56. Israels Barak
57. Metallica drummer Ulrich
59. New Mexico art colony
60. ___ extra cost
61. Spool
62. Impresario Hurok
1. Burdened
6. Dollop
10. Org.
14. Miss by ___
15. Mrs. Chaplin
16. Scoop holder
17. ___ lift?
18. Ships small boat
19. Tailless amphibian
20. Personal quality of material
belonging
21. Collecting
23. Drunkard
25. Rodent, betrayer
26. Med school subj.
29. Desertlike
32. Perfect places
37. Explosive sound
38. H.S. exam
39. Decorative ivy
40. In spite of
43. Intertwine
44. Paul Sorvinos daughter
45. This is what eyes do
46. Sanctuaries
47. Captain of the Nautilus
48. Scottish loch, home to a 
monster!
49. Actress Charlotte
51. Word used to precede a 
womans maiden name
53. Never converging or diverging
58. Emirate on the Persian Gulf
62. Shrivelled, without moisture
63. Dept. of Labor division
64. Liquid waste component
65. Word that can precede hygiene, 
tradition and agreement.
66. It may be happy
67. Home ___
68. Bell-shaped flower
69. No ifs, ___...
70. Disinfectant brand
ACROSSDOWN
Horoscopes
aries
march 21april 19
Pretending your problems dont exist wont make them go 
away.
taurus
april 20may 20
Everyone thinks they know better than everyone else.
gemini
may 21june 21
All is not lost  just give it time.
cancer
june 22july 22
Calm down and think about why what you did was 
important.
leo
july 23aug. 22 
Ever feel like this already happened before?
virgo
aug. 23sept. 22
Only those who help themselves deserve help from others.
libra
sept. 23oct. 22
Umbrellas can be useful when its not raining too.
scorpio
oct. 23nov. 21
The only way to know for sure is to ask.
sagittarius
nov. 22dec. 21
You have to make peace with everything that has 
happened.
capricorn
dec. 22jan. 19
All of your problems will go away if you just solve one.
aquarius
jan. 20feb. 18
Love your family, for they are the only ones who wont leave 
you.
pisces
feb. 19march 20
Life is a miracle  dont take it for granted.
Kairavi Chahal | Comics Editor
Crossword courtesy of BestCrosswords.com

---------------------------------------------------

calendar
pillbox 11.25.1315
ONGOING
Elf. Benedum Center. Through Dec. 1.
PNC Broadway Across America presents a musical 
adaptation of the hilarious movie starring Will Ferrell. 
Elf tells the story of Buddy, a human adopted by elves 
who ventures to New York seeking his biological father. 
The show opens on Tuesday. For tickets and more 
information, visit culturaldistrict.org.
14th International Exhibition of Botanical Art & 
Illustration. Hunt Institute for Botanical Documentation 
(Hunt Library, Fifth Floor). Through Dec. 19.
The exhibition will include 41 pieces of artwork by artists 
representing 10 countries. The Institute established the 
International series in 1964 with the hope of supporting 
and encouraging contemporary botanical artists. Every 
three years, the International series features the works of 
talented botanical artists from around the world.
Yasumasa Morimura: Theater of the Self. 
The Andy Warhol Museum. Through Jan. 12.
In this retrospective exhibit presented by the Andy Warhol 
Museum, Japanese artist Yasumasa Morimura plays with 
images of well-known cultural icons, placing his own face 
over portraits of ?gures like Marilyn Monroe and Mao 
Zedong. For more information, visit warhol.org.
Behind Our Scenes. SPACE Galleries. Through Jan. 26.
Guest-curated by Carnegie Mellon alumna Jen Saffron 
(CFA 91) and featuring the work of Carnegie Mellon 
adjunct professor of history Leo Hsu, Behind Our Scenes 
offers a diverse and thought-provoking exhibition of 
photographs. Admission to the SPACE galleries is free 
and open to the public. For more information, visit 
culturaldistrict.org.
Alien She. Miller Gallery (Purnell Center for the Arts). 
Through Feb. 16.
This exhibit examines Riot Grrrl, an underground feminist 
punk rock movement that surfaced in the 90s, and its 
in?uence on artists and cultural producers today. For 
more information, visit millergallery.cfa.cmu.edu.
2013 Carnegie International. Carnegie Museum of Art. 
Through March 16.
The biennial Carnegie International brings the world art 
scene to Pittsburgh in an exhibition of diverse works. This 
years exhibition features 35 artists and represents 19 
countries. For more information, visit cmoa.org.
UPCOMING
Honeck, Beethoven, & A Waltz Tradition. Heinz Hall. 
Nov. 29 through Dec. 1.
Pittsburgh Symphony music director Manfred Honeck 
will lead the orchestra in performances of Strauss, 
Beethoven, and Supp. For tickets and more information, 
visit pso.culturaldistrict.org.
The Nutcracker. Benedum Center. 
Dec. 6 through Dec. 29.
The Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre presents its rendition of the 
Tchaikovsky holiday classic in a production featuring over 
150 performers. For tickets and more information, visit 
culturaldistrict.org.
Compiled by Rachel Cohen | Pillbox Editor
Want your event here?
Email calendar@thetartan.org.

---------------------------------------------------

16gallery
pillbox 11.25.13
Michelle Wan | Staff Photographer
AB Underground presented indie rock punk group Smallpools at The 
Underground yesterday. Consisting of Sean Scanlon on the keyboard, 
Mike Kamerman on the guitar, Joe Intile on bass, and Beau Kuther 
on the drums, the four formed Smallpools earlier this year. Their next 
performance will be with Twenty One Pilots in Washington, D.C. at 
the 9:30 Club.
concert.
