FORUMSPORTSPILLBOX
Carnegie Mellons student newspaper since 1906
Students put personal spin on fashion trends  B10Ravens defeat 49ers in Super Bowl XLVII  A8CMU should promote mythical mascots  A6
thetartan.org
@thetartan
February 4, 2013
Volume 107, Issue 16
Campus weighs in on stress cultureSexual assault policy changes
Reports reveal allocation of university spending
Kosher dining graces campus 
ANNA WALSH
Contributing Editor
Gina Casalegno, Dean of 
Student Affairs, presented 
a draft of Carnegie Mellons revised sexual harassment and assault policy at 
a Town Hall meeting last 
Tuesday. She reviewed the 
history of these policies and 
explained some of the more 
signi?cant changes to the 
policy, including the new 
evidentiary standard for 
sexual assault and changes 
in the rules for con?dentiality.
As Casalegno explained 
at the beginning of the 
Town Hall, there are currently two separate policies 
for sexual assault and sexual harassment. The sexual 
harassment policy was created in 1981, and the sexual 
assault policy was created 
in 1991; neither policy has 
undergone any revisions 
since their creation, save for 
an addendum to the sexual 
assault policy in 2011. 
Since the sexual harassment policy is so old, Casalegno explained, it is not 
geared as much toward contemporary concerns: [It] is 
constructed very much to 
think about the workplace 
environment, and while 
one could think about applying it in other contexts, 
like in the classroom ... 
it doesnt really resonate 
with todays rhetoric about 
how we think about sexual 
harassment.
An impetus to revise the 
policies came in April 2011, 
when the U.S. Department 
of Education Of?ce for Civil 
Rights issued a Dear Colleague Letter (DCL) to universities regarding the requirements of Title IX of the 
Education Amendments. 
Although most people associate Title IX with providing 
equal access to athletics for 
university women, it more 
broadly advocates gender 
equity in education through 
increased access to math 
and science ?elds for women; protecting the rights of 
pregnant and parenting students; and preventing and 
addressing sexual harassment.
The DCL focused speci?-
cally on sexual harassment: 
It clari?ed that sexual violence  including sexual 
assault and sexual coercion  are forms of sexual 
harassment covered under 
Title IX, and it outlined 
the obligations of universities to respond to sexual 
violence. 
The statistics on sexual 
violence are both deeply 
troubling and a call to action for the nation, the 
letter says, citing a report 
prepared for the National 
Institute of Justice that 
said about 1 in 5 women 
and about 6 percent of men 
are victims of completed or 
attempted sexual assault 
while in college.
Carnegie Mellon added 
short-term ?xes to its sexual assault and sexual harassment policies in spring 
2012, with a note saying, 
the University recognizes 
that it must adjust certain 
substantive and procedural 
provisions in its current 
policy statements to comply 
with particular mandates, 
and promised to fully upJOSEPH WHITE
Junior Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellons newest dining establishment, 
the Pomegranate, is an attempt to accommodate students with religious dietary 
restrictions. 
However, the push for 
diet-speci?c food predates 
this semester. For years, 
the different communities 
at Carnegie Mellon have 
pushed for eateries on the 
Carnegie Mellon meal plan 
that meet speci?c dietary 
requirements, leading 
many to see the Pomegranate as the ?rst step.
Despite the universitys 
past records of a high Jewish student population  
1999s Hillel Guide to a 
Jewish Life advertises the 
joint undergraduate and 
graduate Jewish population at 16 percent  some 
of todays students, including sophomore mathematics major and orthodox 
Jew Nathan Oshlag, see a 
dearth of these numbers. 
CMU doesnt have a large 
Jewish population for a university, Oshlag said.
The Pomegranate opens 
an avenue for students, speci?cally ?rst-years, to get 
food they otherwise could 
not obtain at Carnegie MelBRENT HEARD
News Co-Editor
ANNA WALSH
Contributing Editor
Since last weeks announcement from the university regarding an increase in 
tuition for the next academic 
year, questions were prompted by the student body over 
the universitys current spending and revenues.
The tuition increases were 
announced last Thursday in 
an email from Vice President 
for Campus Affairs Michael 
Murphy. 
There will be a 4 percent 
increase in new undergraduate tuition rates and a 3 percent increase in tuition for current students in the upcoming 
201314 academic year.
Using publicly available 
2010 tax data and Carnegie 
Mellons own ?gures released 
through the Institutional Research and Analysis Factbook, 
The Tartan compiled calculations of where the universitys 
main sources of funding are, 
and of the most notable sources of spending.
As per the universitys 
2010 tax returns of Carnegie 
Mellons revenue, tuition is 
calculated to account for approximately 43 percent, while 
government grants and contributions are the second biggest contributor at around 28 
percent.
With respect to the universitys expenditures, the largest 
portion goes towards wages, 
accounting for approximately 
46 percent of spending. 
Carnegie Mellon employs 
12,539 people, meaning that 
the average amount spent per 
year, per employee  on salaries, bene?ts, taxes, and other 
items  is calculated to be 
$45,703.17.
In terms of monetary contributions to its students, 
Carnegie Mellon recorded 
giving scholarships to 5,393 
recipients at approximately 
$17,911.20 per person.
In 2010, the university 
declared a total revenue 
of $1,153,711,410, with 
$441,715,065 coming from 
contributions and grants. 
The recorded total expenses were $1,009,517,543, 
with $573,072,018 going to 
salaries, other compensaton, 
[and] employee bene?ts.
As recorded in the universitys 2013 Institutional 
Research and Analysis Factbook, a total of $79,301,315 
was given in donations to the 
university in 2012 from a combination of alumni, foundations, corporations, and other 
individuals. 
This ?gure is similar to 
the amounts given in 2010 
and 2011, but is a signi?cant 
increase from the donated 
$57,929,733 in 2009.
For the 2012  13 school 
year, the First Year Undergraduate Total Estimated Cost 
of Attendance is stated to be 
$59,710, which is part of a 
trend of $1,000 to $3,000 increases in total cost of attendance over the past 10 years.
Carnegie Mellons operating expenses totaled $966,321 
in 2012, part of a steady trend 
of increasing costs. 
The majority of 2012s operating expenses were devoted to salaries, at 52.7 percent, 
followed by supplies and 
services at 16.4 percent, and 
bene?ts at 12 percent.
The universitys endowment currently stands at a 
market value of $987,054,000, 
a decrease from 2011s value 
of $1,017,338,000.
Carnegie Mellon also reported that the majority of 
its federal research funding is 
provided by the National Science Foundation at $75,536. 
This is closely followed by 
the funding from the Department of Defense, which totals 
$71,220.
Annette Ko/Art Editor
Data according to Carnegie Mellons own ?gures and the Institutional Research and Analysis Factbook. 
Kate Groschner/Photo Editor
Vice Provost for Education Amy Burkert discussed how the university has been trying to curb student stress in the past year. 
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
Assistant News Editor
Dean of Student Affairs 
Gina Casalegno, Vice Provost 
for Education Amy Burkert, 
and leaders in the student 
government hosted a Town 
Hall on Carnegie Mellon culture last Monday. 
The meeting, held in Rangos 1 in the University Center, 
was highly attended  the 
auditorium was ?lled to capacity.
At the door, every participant was handed a sheet of 
paper that reminded them to 
respect their peers opinions 
and right to speak, and provided discussion prompts, asking questions such as, We are 
in the midst of a presidential 
transition, which allows for a 
unique opportunity to re?ect 
upon who we are and who we 
wish to become as a university 
community. How would you 
describe our culture to the incoming president?
The Town Hall came partly as a result of the death of 
Henry Armero on Dec. 7 and 
an editorial published ?ve 
days later by The Tartan, The 
happy mask: Carnegie Mellon 
must address stress culture, 
written by Katie Chironis, a 
senior creative writing and 
human-computer interaction 
double major who graduated 
in December.
In her editorial, Chironis wrote about the bravado 
that Carnegie Mellon students often use to disguise 
their personal struggles and 
heavy workloads: The terrifying thing is that emotional 
and mental suffering doesnt 
show on the skin. Its often the 
happiest students, the ones 
who chuckle at their workload, who feel that pain most 
keenly. And its those students 
who need help. Clearly not all 
of them are getting it or feel 
comfortable seeking it.
Referring to this happy 
mask that students put on to 
cope with their heavy workloads, Chironis wrote, A more 
serious question, then, is why 
is the university ignoring the 
elephant in the room?
In an email sent out on Jan. 
21 to notify students of the upcoming Town Hall, Casalegno 
wrote, Many of you have already read the editorial published by The Tartan, which 
has sparked an important 
campus dialogue about our 
culture and its impact on our 
well-being. In the days and 
weeks following the articles 
publication, I have heard from 
many students, faculty, and 
See ASSAULT, A1
See STRESS, A3See JEWISH, A3

---------------------------------------------------

A2  thetartan.org/news The Tartan  February 4, 2013
Corrections & Clari?cations
In the Student Senate meeting minutes (News, Jan. 
28), the student readership program mentioned was 
discussed by the Joint Funding Committee, not Undergraduate Student Senate. Additionally, the Town Halls 
mentioned in the minutes occurred two years ago, and 
not in the previous semester.
If you would like to submit a correction or clari?cation, 
please e-mail The Tartan at news@thetartan.org or editor@thetartan.org with your inquiry, as well as the date 
of the issue and the name of the article. We will print 
the correction or clari?cation in the next print issue and 
publish it online.
NEWS IN BRIEF
SCS holds Founders Day celebration
WEATHER
Marijuana Possession
Jan. 25, 2013
A Carnegie Mellon security guard on foot patrol observed multiple individuals 
using what he believed to be 
marijuana near the Cut. Police responded to assist and 
con?rmed that at least one 
of the individuals was in possession of marijuana. Of?cers 
con?scated the marijuana and 
informed the student that he 
would be cited.
Alcohol Amnesty
Jan. 25, 2013
University Police and CMU 
EMS were summoned to 
Margaret Morrison Street to 
tend to an intoxicated male. 
EMS requested that city medics also be summoned to the 
scene. The student was then 
transported to a hospital for 
further treatment. Alcohol 
Amnesty applies to this incident.
Noise Complaint
Jan. 26, 2013
University Police and Pittsburgh Police responded to 
a residence on Beeler Street 
in reference to a noise complaint. Of?cers cited multiple 
individuals for offenses that 
include underage drinking 
and disorderly conduct.
Underage Drinking
Jan. 26, 2013
University Police responded to a noise complaint on 
the second ?oor of the Shady 
Oaks Apartment. Of?cers 
found the room occupied by 
several Carnegie Mellon students. One student was cited 
for underage drinking. Multiple containers of alcohol 
found in the room were con?scated.
Underage Drinking
Jan. 27, 2013
Three males, one of whom 
was visibly intoxicated, were 
observed by a Carnegie Mellon security guard traveling 
to Mudge House. The security 
guard requested police assistance to check on the males 
well-being. University Police 
interviewed the three males 
at Mudge House. Two of the 
males stated they were assisting to get the intoxicated 
student to his residence. The 
student was cited for underage drinking.
Vending Machine Theft
Jan. 28, 2013
University Police responded to Stever House in reference to a vending machine 
that had many of its products 
removed from the machine. 
Of?cers found no sign of 
forced entry to the inside of 
the machine. This investigation is ongoing.
Theft
Jan. 30, 2013
A Carnegie Mellon student 
entered the University Police 
Station to ?le a theft report 
that occurred on Jan. 2728 
between 9:00 p.m. and 2:00 
a.m. The theft occurred from 
the students work area in 
Room 200 in the College of 
Fine Arts. University Police 
are investigating this incident.
Campus Crime & Incident Reports
The School of Computer Science (SCS) held its second-annual Founders Day celebration last Thursday in the Gates Hillman Complex. The event 
featured a presentation by SCS Dean Randy Bryant and the presentation of multiple staff awards for teaching and research accomplishments. 
Source: www.weather.com
FEATURE PHOTO
The use of parking spaces, 
the ones near Schenley Park 
in particular, ?uctuates with 
the seasons. Many parking 
spaces, which cost $2 per 
hour, often go unused.
Mark Fichman, associate 
professor of organizational 
behavior and theory, and 
Stephen Spear, professor of 
economics, are spearheading a project to help optimize 
the use of parking spaces by 
allowing the parking rates to 
depend on the time of year.
The cost of the parking 
spaces will be $1 per hour 
during times of the year 
when parking is freely available and $2 per hour during 
the busier seasons. Through 
research studies, Fichman 
and Spear will monitor parking meter usage in order to 
determine which seasons are 
busier than others.
According to a university 
press release, the two Carnegie Mellon professors will 
use economic principles to 
research the ideal rate.
Fichman said in a university press release, Ideally, slightly more than three 
quarters of available parking 
spaces should be utilized during normal business periods. 
A few years ago, when 
parking rates were 50 cents 
per hour, it was dif?cult to 
?nd an open parking space 
around campus, he continued.  
Fichman contrasted this 
with the current situation, 
adding,  when parking rates 
rose to their recent high of $2 
per hour, many commuters 
quit using the street parking 
all together. The ideal rate is 
somewhere in between these 
numbers.
Tepper optimizes Oakland meter parking
Architecture professors given NSF award
Carnegie Mellons School 
of Architecture and the Center for Building Performance 
and Diagnostics (CBPD) won 
the National Science Foundations (NSF) 2013 Alexander Schwarzkopf Prize for 
Technological Innovation for 
its research and contribution 
to technological innovation. 
The winning team, which 
consisted of Carnegie Mellon 
architecture professors and 
researchers, was selected 
by the Industry/University 
Cooperative Research Center (I/UCRC) Association 
Committee.
Volker Hartkopf, professor of architecture and director of the CBPD, led a team 
that also included architecture professor David Archer 
(who passed away in 2010 
at 82); senior researcher 
Azizan Aziz; architecture 
professor Khee Poh Lam; 
Head of the School of Architecture Stephen Lee; and 
architecture professor Vivian 
Loftness.
Carnegie Mellons CBPDs 
most notable work this year 
includes the construction of 
the Robert L. Preger Intelligent Workplace (IW) in 
1997. 
According to a university 
press release, the IW is the 
premier living and lived-in 
laboratory focused on energy, the environment, economics, human health, organizational productivity, and 
building systems integration 
practices.
The Alexander Schwarzkopf Prize is a prize awarded 
annually to provide the recipient with opportunities to 
partner with other leading 
universities, and also with 
recognition as an NSF research center so that it may 
gain access to additional 
resources.
Academic AffairsCampus Life 
STUDENT SENATE MEETING MINUTES
FRIDAY
High / Low
38 / 27
SATURDAY
High / Low
39 / 34
SUNDAY
High / Low
43 / 38
TUESDAY
High / Low
27 / 26
WEDNESDAY
High / Low
29 / 19
THURSDAY
High / Low
36 / 33
The Student Senate aims 
to accomplish three key objectives with respect to academic 
goals.
First, efforts will be made 
to connect with Carnegie Mellons sister campus in Qatar; 
second, to be in contact with 
the new dean for media technology to talk about Senates 
goals; third, to host a networking event at the conclusion of 
the semester. 
Compiled by
BRENT HEARD
Compiled by
NOL UM
Student Senate conducted 
a meeting with the poster 
policy administration  a 
subsection of Student Senate 
that deals with posters  in 
which they discussed processes that could improve ef?ciency. They was also discussion 
on adding benches at the 
center of the Cut in order to 
encourage people to sit outside in the spring and how to 
expand the current Arts Pass 
program. One suggestion 
was to have buses running 
to the Aviary, the Mattress 
Factory, and the Andy Warhol Museum in order to encourage students to explore 
Downtown. 
Finally, the topic of ?nes 
and warnings to organizations over poster violations 
was also discussed.
Communications/Town Hall Week
Discussion was held regarding last weeks Student 
Senate Town Hall Week, as 
well as the possibility of hosting forums and meetings for 
different parts of the university. 
Also discussed was the creation of a blog to serve as a 
centralized web page for students to submit questions and 
concerns.
Ex-Of?cio Report
Student Body President 
Will Weiner presented a 
brief update on the Senates 
role with respect to the ongoing dialogue on campus 
about mental health.
 Weiner and the Senate 
are pursuing multiple paths 
to try to address the issues 
raised, including a possible 
peer-mentoring and support 
system.
Kate Groschner/Photo Editor

---------------------------------------------------

February 4, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/news  A3
CMU summer school funding restored
NOL UM 
News Co-Editor
The Pennsylvania Governors School for the Sciences, 
a summer enrichment program hosted by the Mellon 
College of Science for gifted 
high school students, will 
resume this summer after a 
three-year hiatus.
The Pennsylvania Governors School for the Sciences 
(PGSS), which was cancelled 
in 2009 due to state budget 
cuts, effectively instigated the 
closing of other Governors 
Schools across Pennsylvania.
In response, Carnegie 
Mellon alumni raised funds 
amounting to $150,000, 
which were then matched by 
the state education department. Fundraising was largely 
successful due to the help of 
PGSS alumni.
According to the PGSS 
Alumni website, members 
believe that it is important to 
promote the teaching of evidence-based science, mathematics, and computer science 
at the secondary school level 
and to encourage students 
who demonstrate an aptitude 
for mathematics and science 
to pursue science-based careers.
Barry Luokkala, professor of physics and director 
of PGSS, said in a university 
press release, The alumni of 
the program pushed to get 
the funding restored. So many 
of the alumni have said that 
The Governors School was 
lifechanging. They wanted 
the school back so that other 
students could have the same 
experience.
All of the students who 
have attended PGSS later 
attended college, with 90 
percent of them pursuing 
careers in math, science, or 
technology.
The program will accept 
56 students from over 500 
applications. 
Those accepted will receive full tuition, room, and 
board for the ?ve-week program, which will run Jun. 
30 through Aug. 5. Selected 
students must demonstrate 
excellent academic records, 
evidence of sustained interest 
and outstanding performance 
in science and mathematics, 
and high standardized test 
scores, according to the PGSS 
website.
The purpose of the school 
is to advance an overall general participation in the sciences. During the summer 
program, chosen students 
will be able to study biology, 
chemistry, computer science, 
math, and physics. 
They will also complete a 
team research project, with 
the help of a faculty member, 
by the end of the program.
The application deadline 
for PGSS is Feb. 15. More information can be found at 
www.pgss.mcs.cmu.edu.
Jewish community 
pleased by options 
lon outside of refrigerated, 
premade meals.
Its an amazing step forward with so much more 
room to grow, sophomore 
biological sciences major 
Danielle Schlesinger said. 
Just having more programming for the kids on campus 
looking for ... a culturally 
Jewish community.
Those who face the strictest dietary restrictions are 
orthodox Jewish students; 
they follow the Vaad-de?ned 
Kosher laws, which require 
every step of the food-preparation process to be checked 
by a member of the Vaad, a 
certain council of rabbis. Because of the intensity of the 
supervision process, such Kosher foods tend to be on the 
pricier side.
The Pomegranate itself 
is not certi?ed by the Vaad, 
but the food is made in the 
Kosher kitchen at Congregation Beth Shalom and the 
food preparation process is 
supervised by Rabbi Michael 
Werbow. 
For many Jewish students 
who follow a conservative 
level of Kosher rules, this is 
considered suf?cient. According to senior Bachelor of Science and Arts student Brian 
Alderman, one of the Jewish 
students who pushed for such 
an eatery, the next step is to 
have a place on campus to 
serve the 20 or 30 who cant 
eat at the Pomegranate.
Even those who cannot eat 
at the Pomegranate see it as 
a step in the right direction, 
Oshlag said. He initially opposed the Pomegranate since 
it did not serve the students 
who needed a Kosher eatery 
the most, but he considers it 
an encouragement, as he and 
other orthodox Jewish students are not done pushing 
for a Vaad Kosher food vendor [that] would cater to the 
entire array of Muslims and 
Jews on campus.
Yet even in the same 
schools of Kosher there are 
differing opinions. 
I dont expect [Vaad Kosher] is feasible, since there 
isnt a strong observant Jewish community on campus, 
said Daniel Davis, a junior 
chemistry major. 
He believes that keeping 
costs suf?ciently low would 
make food quality suffer, and 
a Kosher eatery needs to attract non-Kosher customers 
to stay in business. 
A simpler method to solve 
the food dilemma  not only 
for Jews, but also for Muslims, Hindus, and vegetarians 
 would be to eliminate the 
required meal plan for ?rstyears. 
Currently, according to 
Davis, Jewish students who 
can eat at the Pomegranate 
can eat at other campus locales, like Evgefstos. 
Increasing options for 
them is a good thing, in his 
opinion, but unfortunately 
the total number served has 
not increased by much. 
Even for Jewish students 
who do not keep Kosher, just 
having a place with Middle 
Eastern food provides a taste 
of home. 
Its our comfort food, 
Tsachor said, we cant get 
moms cooking, but it makes 
you feel at home.
Increased communication one solution to academic stress
campus dialogue about our 
culture and its impact on our 
well-being. In the days and 
weeks following the articles 
publication, I have heard from 
many students, faculty, and 
staff about their re?ections on 
CMUs culture and their aspirations for creating a greater 
community commitment to 
wellness.
At the Town Hall, Casalegno said that it is clear there 
is a passion sparked on this 
topic, and we really want tonights event to be an opportunity to inform one another and 
inform us as we think about 
where CMU, where Carnegie 
Mellon, will head in the future as we think about our 
community well-being. She 
said that last spring a survey 
called CMU Says was taken, 
co-sponsored by her and Burkert, in which one-third of the 
questions were about personal 
well-being. 
Over half of graduate 
and undergraduate students 
participated, and the results 
 which have already been 
presented to the academic 
deans, president, and provost 
 will be presented to the 
Student Senate and Graduate 
Students Association later in 
the semester. Discussion was 
active throughout the Town 
Hall; at one point there were 
about 30 students waiting to 
speak. 
Students had many suggestions, including the creation of a three-unit Caring@
Carnegie Mellon course, structured similarly to the required 
mini Computing@Carnegie 
Mellon, and more ways for 
students to relieve stress and 
blow off steam.
Another idea was to reconsider the way that class units 
are calculated: I think maybe 
we should have a way to reevaluate the idea of units.... 
I know that the way the unit 
system is supposed to work is 
that youre supposed to work 
nine hours for the week, but 
I know that I spend a little 
bit more than nine hours per 
week on that class.... If maybe 
theres a better way to evaluate our courses, evaluate the 
way we view success, and then 
also how we better allocate 
our time, I think students will 
be in a much better place, 
said Joe Frick, a senior economics major.
Will Weiner, student body 
president and ?fth-year senior 
decision science and economic 
and statistics double major, 
was also in attendance. 
I think it was almost like 
a very nice cathartic moment 
for the campus community 
to be able to have people get 
these stories off their chests, 
and in some ways among the 
silent Im sure there are more 
stories like that and its comforting to see theres this other 
community, Weiner said.
Vivek Nair, a sophomore 
electrical and computer engineering major, said after 
attending the Town Hall 
meeting, Yes, I do feel there 
de?nitely is something the 
university needs to do to address this issue. I guess there 
are some resources out there, 
but they may not always be the 
most approachable or most 
visible.
According to Nair, CMU 
consists of a lot of bright people.... So they feel they have 
this inertia of success that they 
feel they need to keep going, 
and sometimes they dont all 
fully appreciate this place as 
different. Its a lot more dif?-
cult than things they may have 
experienced.
A lot of people were saying 
that [their workload] just kind 
of all a sudden hit them, that 
they couldnt do everything, 
said Luke Sampson, a ?rstyear biology major. 
I think its more on the students than it is on the school. 
Because the school is here to 
educate us and give us this 
challenge, and then its on us 
as students to accept the challenge and take it in stride.
At the Town Hall, Frick 
also spoke about the heavy 
burden that Carnegie Mellon 
students put on themselves. 
Maybe people need to reevaluate how they view their 
extracurricular activities, he 
said. I dont know of a single 
Carnegie Mellon student who 
does nothing besides academics, goes to of?ce hours, does 
everything else, and struggles 
with school.... Were doing a 
lot of different things, but we 
view those not as leisure time, 
but additional tasks.
Sophia Kim, a ?rst-year 
business administration major, echoed Sampsons sentiments. 
There is a lot of stress 
culture, but I also feel like in 
a sense its our part, also, to 
budget our time wisely, because we can easily get distracted by social networking 
sites and stuff, she said.
William Elmore, a junior 
civil engineering and engineering and public policy 
double major, emphasized the 
importance of communication 
between the administration 
and the student body and the 
role that the Town Hall played 
in that dialogue. I think communication with the student 
body is necessary, reassessing the way CAPS is designed 
and utilized is also probably 
necessary and there are in?-
nite ways of approaching this 
problem, he said. 
to fully update its policies in 
the 20122013 school year. 
Carnegie Mellon thus created 
a committee last semester to 
draft new policies. Student 
Body President Will Weiner, 
a ?fth-year senior economics 
and statistics and decision science double major, explained, 
I am the undergraduate representative [on the committee]  theres also a graduate 
student who sits on there, and 
then theres a bunch of other 
universityof?cial types ... Dr. 
Michael Murphy, Dean Casalegno, faculty council, staff 
council, that type of people, 
so a mix ... across the board.
One of the biggest changes 
mandated in the DCL was 
that universities are obligated 
to investigate all reports of 
sexual harassment and must 
take action if they decide that 
community welfare is at risk. 
As a result, the university can 
no longer promise complete 
con?dentiality for people who 
?led such reports.
This is an area that has 
caused a lot of concern, Ill be 
quite frank, Casalegno said. 
Our message has largely, for 
many, many years been to support at all costs what the victim or survivors wishes are. 
So that is to say if someone 
comes forward and tells their 
story about a way that they 
were fundamentally violated 
and how power was taken 
away from that individual, our 
teachings in the ?eld of sexual 
assault prevention and education and response has always 
been to defer to the wishes of 
the victim or survivor in terms 
of what they want done.
Weve been really anxious 
about how this would play out 
since our implementation last 
year, Casalegno continued, 
and I will say anecdotally ... 
that I am really proud how 
thoughtfully and how compassionately we have handled 
that review of every case that 
comes forward.
Jeannine Heynes, Carnegie Mellons coordinator of 
gender programs, agreed in 
an interview that the obligatory action has so far been 
effective. If there was something where the survivor said, 
I dont want to go forward 
with it, I dont want to get this 
person in trouble  they say 
that a lot, I dont want to ruin 
this persons life  but weve 
seen the name pop up before 
... then [Casalegno and Title 
IX Coordinator G. Richard 
Tucker] usually say to me, try 
to get in front of the survivor, 
go through the SAA, and say 
its really important that we 
proceed with this,  she said. 
So, I mean, theyre all complicated emotionally, but sort 
of administratively, the survivors who havent initially 
wanted to go forward have 
been really cooperative, and 
I think once you sit down and 
say, were all here for you, 
here are the resources, were 
on your side ... I think they 
feel much more calm and willing and they understand the 
process to go forward.
While obligatory action 
may be one of the more signi?cant changes to the new 
policy, there are numerous 
other changes, including two 
policies being combined into 
one. 
This re?ects a shift in our 
policy to acknowledge that 
sexual harassment is no longer limited to employment 
relationships, and that sexual 
assault is no longer something 
to be considered in the student domain, Casalegno said. 
Also, the evident standard 
for disciplinary action is now a 
preponderance of evidence, 
so that it only needs to be 
deemed more likely than not 
that an incident of sexual assault or harassment occurred.
Title IX Coordinator G. 
Richard Tucker, who is a professor of applied linguistics, 
now reviews all complaints 
or reports ?led by the campus 
community and looks at systemic ways in which Carnegie 
Mellons administration could 
improve its adherence to Title IX. There are four newly 
appointed deputy Title IX coordinators who will support 
him as necessary in speci?c 
cases. My responsibility is to 
make sure that I am regularly 
in touch with each of [the 
staff members involved], that 
Im available to them, that Im 
there to review recommendations theyre making or review 
the reports theyre receiving, 
and to decide on the appropriate course of action, Tucker 
explained in an interview.
After Casalegno ?nished 
presenting the changes, there 
was a Q & A session involving 
the approximately two dozen 
attendees. 
One student asked whether the lack of con?dentiality 
in reporting would apply to 
Counseling and Psychiatric 
Services or Health Services, 
and Casalegno clari?ed that 
both of those services would 
still be con?dential. 
There was also a discussion 
about the dif?culties in preventing and reporting assault 
involving intoxication, as well 
as the necessity of educating 
students about diminished 
capacity and a lack of consent 
during sex.
Casalegno will present the 
proposed policy to Student 
Senate, Faculty Senate, Graduate Student Assembly, and 
Staff Council at their respective meetings throughout the 
month.
Notable policy changes
	Once treated as different policies, sexual assault and harassment policies are now one 
policy.
	The new policy de?nes sexual violence and 
sexual assault as forms of sexual harassment.
	It clari?es that sexual harassment can occur in 
many different contexts.
	It says the university has an obligation to pursue an investigation or take disciplinary action, 
even if that goes against the victims wishes. 
	It can no longer promise complete con?dentiality to survivors who ?le reports.
	There is a shorter timetable for the processing 
of a formal complaint.
	It speci?es that the Title IX coordinator and sexual harassment process coordinators will create an annual con?dential report about sexual 
harassment on campus.
	Title IX coordinators has the ability to review 
every report that is ?led.
ASSAULT, from A1
STRESS, from A1
Photo by Jonathan Carreon/Contributing Editor
Gina Casalegno discussed community well-being at the forum. 
Courtesy of Juan Fernandez 
New policy prioritizes community safety
JEWISH, from A1

---------------------------------------------------

A4  thetartan.org/scitech The Tartan  February 4, 2013
Student uses power of grammar to crack passwords
LIGIA NISTOR
Staffwriter
Ashwini Rao, a software 
engineering Ph.D. student in 
the Institute for Software Research, recently made important discoveries in the ?eld of 
password security. She determined ways that make cracking a long password easier; in 
doing so, she identi?ed grammatical structures that may 
add further security to longer 
passwords.
Generally, there are two 
types of password attacks: online and of?ine. 
An online attack occurs 
when the attacker sits at a 
computer terminal, has a web 
page open (such as a bank 
site), and tries to guess a users 
password. What usually happens is that, once the attacker 
makes two or three guesses, 
the account is locked and the 
attacker is unsuccessful.
Of?ine attacks typically 
deal with hashed passwords 
used in most websites. Each 
plain-text password has a 
generated number associated 
with it  known as a hash  
and that number is the one 
that is stored. When this data 
set of hashed passwords is 
leaked, like what happened 
to professional networking 
website LinkedIn recently, attackers can use an unlimited 
amount of computing power. 
Hackers will generate a huge 
number of plain-text guesses, 
hash them, and compare them 
to the leaked hashed passwords. If it is a match, they 
have found the plain-text passwords.
Raos research has focused 
on this kind of of?ine attack 
for long passwords (16 characters or more.) Currently there 
is a trend toward longer passwords and those are usually 
called pass phrases, where instead of choosing a word with 
lots of special characters and 
numbers you tend to just increase the length of the password and try to decrease the 
number of restrictions you put 
on a user, she said. 
Rao and the other students 
on her team looked at a data 
set of about 1,500 passwords. 
When users were asked to 
come up with long passwords 
without any restrictions, 18 
percent of those had phrases 
in them, or contained postal 
addresses or email addresses. 
The structure of the passwords 
in?uenced their security. 
When current password crackers  which are algorithms  
used to determine the hashed 
passwords  tried to ?gure 
out these codes, only 6 percent 
were cracked. The password 
crackers didnt work because 
they were not meant for long 
ones and did not take into account the possible grammatical structure of passwords.
For example, the passwords Shehas3cats and 
Danhas3cats have the same 
length, but the second one is 
more secure. This is because 
the security of long passwords 
is in?uenced by their component parts of speech. The noun 
Dan is more dif?cult to guess 
than the pronoun she.
Rao understood that current password crackers dont 
look at structure. They are 
for conventional passwords, 
shorter passwords, maybe 
12 characters or less. They 
are not built for these kind of 
[long] passwords, she said. 
She tried to assist the security 
of these passwords by improving the algorithms that are 
used to crack them. The idea, 
in a sense, is to remain one 
step ahead of hackers. She 
improved the crackers in two 
ways.
First, she built an improved password cracker. Current crackers are dictionary 
based: they have a dictionary 
of words called base words 
(taken from a thesaurus, 
short phrases from Wikipedia, 
movie titles, music lyrics, etc.) 
and mangling rules. Such 
mangling rules could be take 
a word from a dictionary and 
capitalize the ?rst letter or 
concatenate the same word 
twice. These rules are limited 
to working with maximum 
two words. The problem was 
that, in the long password dataset, people were using three, 
four, or ?ve words.
Rao and her team wanted 
to build a new password cracker that could come up with 
phrases  longer sequences 
of words, she said. For this, 
they de?ned grammar to be 
a sequence of parts of speech 
such as nouns, verbs, and adjectives. Next, they wanted 
to construct a phrase automatically using the Brown 
corpus  a famous collection 
of annotated words. They 
took the 1,000 most common 
sequences of parts of speech 
and assigned concrete words 
for each part of speech. Thus 
they ended up with phrases, 
or long passwords. For each 
part of speech, they created a 
dictionary. For example, they 
created a noun dictionary that 
included all of the nouns from 
the Brown corpus.
Their new cracker takes the 
sequence of parts of speech, 
a dictionary for each part of 
speech, and the maximum 
guesses the cracker can make 
as inputs. It will generate a 
number of sequences and  will 
answer how many of the passwords from a test data set it 
can crack.
For example, for the sequence of parts of speech 
noun, adjective  and a 
dictionary containing 20,000 
nouns and a different dictionary containing 1,000 adjectives  the cracker will generate 20 million sequences of 
words. If the maximum number of guesses is only 10,000, 
it will take the ?rst 10,000 sequences of words, in order by 
the length of the sequences, 
and try to see how many of 
those sequences match the 
passwords from the data set it 
is trying to guess.
The second improvement 
to the current password crackers was using the Google corpus instead of the current 
dictionaries. The Google corpus contains frequently used 
sequences of words from web 
pages on the Internet. By using 
this corpus instead of the current dictionaries, Raos team 
was able to crack 20 percent of 
longer passwords, much more 
than predicted 6 percent.
They were able to crack an 
additional 10 percent of the 
passwords by combining the 
Google corpus with the new 
and improved cracker.
This is the most important 
result. We were able to crack 
new passwords that otherwise 
couldnt be cracked, Rao said.
Rao will present the ?ndings on Feb. 20 at the Association for Computing Machinerys Conference on Data and 
Application Security and Privacy (CODASPY 2013) in San 
Antonio, Texas.
DESIREE XU
Staffwriter
Pollution and global warming, caused by burning oils 
and fossil fuels, are the most 
talked about issues in the 
world of energy. However, 
scientists have found a new 
source of energy that lies right 
under our feet: geothermal 
energy. 
Geothermal energy is not 
only clean, renewable, and 
ef?cient, but it is also more 
cost effective and readily accessible. It releases a fraction 
of the amount of carbon dioxide that fossil fuels emit, and 
it produces smaller amounts 
of nitrous oxide and sulfur 
gases. Geothermal plants are 
also more reliable, running 24 
hours a day, 365 days in a year. 
Its no wonder that the world 
consumes 7,000 megawatts of 
geothermal energy a year. The 
United States produces 2,700 
of that total, according to the 
Geothermal Education Of?ce. 
Still, before geothermal energy is given too much praise, 
its important to ?nd out what 
exactly geothermal energy is, 
where it comes from, and how 
its used.
Geothermal energy literally means energy from the 
Earth. It is heat  the energy of steam and hot water 
heated by the Earths core, 
which lies about 4,000 miles 
beneath Earths surface and 
can reach temperatures of 
7,600F or higher. Such heat 
can melt surrounding rocks, 
turning them into magma 
that rise toward the Earths 
surface (considering they are 
less dense than the surrounding rocks.) After reaching the 
surface, the magma heats 
nearby rocks and water that 
is trapped within them. As a 
result, some of the water escapes through the surface to 
form geysers and hot springs. 
The remaining water becomes 
geothermal reservoirs, which 
are pools of water under the 
Earths surface.
There are several ways to 
acquire this energy according to www.howstuffworks.
com; these include accessing 
it directly from the ground 
and using a geothermal pump 
to heat and convert the energy to electricity. To access 
the heat directly, a building 
merely needs to be built near 
the source  hot springs and 
reservoirs    so that hot water 
can be piped directly through 
a heat exchanger that transfers the heat from the water 
into the buildings heat system. Afterward, the used water is returned to the reservoir 
via a well to be reused again. 
The geothermal pump uses 
the heated soil and water near 
the source differently. Pipes 
connecting to a building are 
built beneath or around the 
heated soil and water; ?uid 
circulates these pipes and 
picks up the heat from the 
surrounding source. The heat 
within the pipe is then sucked 
out by an electric compressor 
and heat exchanger, which 
sends the heat through a duct 
system throughout the building. At hotter temperatures, 
the opposite process occurs; 
The pipes pull the heat out of 
the building and sends it to 
the ground or water outside.
The geothermal power 
plant generates electricity by 
piping hot water and steam 
throughout underground wells. 
There are three kinds of 
plants: dry steam plants, ?ash 
steam plants, and binary cycle 
plants. In dry steam plants, 
hot steam is piped directly 
from geothermal reservoirs 
to spin turbines located in the 
generators to produce electricity. In ?ash steam plants, 
wells bring up water between 
300F and 700F. Some of 
this water turns into steam 
to drive turbines. The steam 
then cools, condenses, and 
goes back into the ground. In 
binary cycle plants, moderately hot geothermal water passes through a heat exchanger 
to transfer its heat into a liquid that boils at a lower temperature than water. After the 
heated ?uid becomes steam, 
it spins turbines to generate 
electricity.
Geothermal energy can 
be expensive at ?rst: Drilling 
wells can cost between $14 
million per drill, and installing home pumps can cost up 
to $30,000. However, the 
home geothermal pumps can 
decrease energy bills by 30 
to 40 percent and will pay for 
themselves within ?ve to 10 
years. After all, geothermal 
energy perpetually replaces 
heat, as removed water can be 
returned to the ground after 
the heat is used.
Geothermal is an energy 
source that is clean and renewable. Some countries like 
Iceland utilize geothermal 
energy as one of their main 
sources of power, with the 
capital city of Reykjavik getting 95 percent of its energy 
from the source. The U.S. may 
soon follow in their footsteps.
Americas house cats more violent than thought
A new analysis conducted 
by the Smithsonian Conservation Biology Institute 
found that domestic cats 
have been killing more wild 
birds than scientists thought. 
Americas domestic and feral 
cats kill between 1.4 billion 
and 3.7 billion birds per year, 
a number that is drastically 
larger than the previously estimated 500 million.
These numbers were determined by studies assessing 
the hunting habits of cats in 
the United States. The result 
from calculating the percentage of cats that live outdoors, 
the percentage of household 
cats that are occasionally allowed out, and the amount 
of hunting a cat will normally 
do when outside was alarming. Conservationists have 
tried capturing and neutering wild cats, but the process 
has been too time consuming 
and expensive.
Source: Science News
Wristwatch to help combat sexual violence in India
In response to the string 
of violent gang-rapes of female bus passengers in New 
Delhi and Gurdaspur, Indian 
of?cials are developing an 
innovative wristwatch that 
can help protect women. 
The watchs main feature is a 
button that sends a text message to close relatives and the 
nearest police station. 
A GPS inside the watch 
will determine the wearers 
location and a small camera 
will record for 30 minutes after the button is pressed. The 
prototype for this wristwatch 
is due to be released in half a 
year. While rape-prevention 
technology is a step in the 
right direction, some are 
skeptical on how effective it 
will be. 
I dont think this will 
make any difference in controlling rape cases, said 
Sehba Farooqui, a womens 
rights activist in Delhi.
Source: Discovery News
South Korea launches ?rst successful satellite
After three failed attempts in the past four years 
to launch a civilian rocket, 
South Korea launched its 
?rst space rocket carrying a 
science satellite last Wednesday. While previous launches failed within minutes, this 
rocket, named Naro, successfully entered orbit. 
However, South Korea 
is still far behind its rivals, 
China and Japan, in space 
efforts. While South Korea 
is capable of producing satellites, it has relied on other 
countries to put them into 
orbit. South Korea plans to 
build a rocket on its own by 
2018 and eventually send 
a probe to the moon. South 
Koreas rocket program is 
an issue of contention with 
neighboring North Korea, 
which is included in the 
United Nations sanctions 
for launching long-range 
rockets.
Source: Reuters
Storm on Saturn travels the globe; then swallows self
Scientists from NASAs 
Cassini mission recently 
published a paper detailing a 267-day-long storm 
on Saturn. The storm was 
tracked by Cassinis radio 
and plasma wave subsystem and imaging cameras. 
It erupted at the 33 degrees 
north latitude and moved 
west, covering 190,000 
miles and wrapping around 
the planet. Unlike terrestrial 
storms that run into mountains and other topographic 
features, causing them to die 
out, Saturns storm traveled 
all the way around the planet  unimpeded by any land 
features  until it reached 
where it began. At this point, 
the storm ran into itself and 
mysteriously dissipated, putting an end to one of Saturns 
longest-running storms. 
Source: Astronomy Magazine  
Compiled by
BROOKE KUEI
SCITECH BRIEFS
Kate Groschner/Photo Editor
Ph.D. student Ashwini Rao utilized grammar to crack particularly 
long passwords. 
HOW THINGS WORKPowering homes with heat from Earth
Courtesy of Wikimedia Commons
This schematic shows the harnessing of energy from within the Earth. A production well captures heat from within the Earths core that produces 
steam and water. Water is sent back into the Earth while the steam spins turbines that produce electricity. Geothermal energy is becoming an 
increasingly important energy source for the United States.

---------------------------------------------------

February 4, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/scitech  A5
David Brumley has recently been named the Gerard G. 
Elia Career Development Professor in the department of 
electrical and computer engineering (ECE). Brumley, who 
received his Ph.D. from Carnegie Mellon in 2008, also has 
positions in the computer science department and Carnegie Mellons CyLab.
Brumleys research focuses on the areas of computer 
security, applied cryptography, program analysis, compilers, and veri?cation. My 
goal is to make computer 
software and systems safe, 
Brumley said in a university 
press release.
Attackers only need to 
?nd a single ?aw to break 
into a system. Defenders have 
the much harder job of plugging all holes, he added.
In his pursuit of safer computing, Brumley has focused 
some of his research on computer privacy. According to 
Brumley, there is currently 
an impasse in the world of 
computer privacy: Users wish 
to remain anonymous for fear 
of having a stolen identity, 
and service providers need a 
way to track accountability to 
protect against abusive users. 
Brumley and his colleagues 
goal is to develop a system 
that would allow users to understand exactly when their 
identity would be revealed.
To solve this problem, 
Brumley has based his research on the idea of contracts. When users accept a 
contract, their identities are 
placed in an server that runs 
a program called Flicker. 
Flicker proves to both the 
user and service provider 
that the users identity will 
be revealed only if the user 
breaks the contract. This solution is designed to be fast 
and fair to the user.
In addition to his security 
research, Brumley teaches 
multiple courses in the ECE 
department, such as Introduction to Computer Security, and is the mentor of 
Carnegie Mellons Capture 
the Flag team, which has won 
three international competitions. Capture the Flag is 
a computer security game 
where a team of competitors 
solve a series of problems to 
determine a source key of information.
David Brumley is widely 
regarded both on campus 
and in the wider community 
for his cutting-edge contributions to addressing the 
challenges associated with 
computer malware as well 
as his dedication to teaching. 
His commitment to teaching 
and demonstrated leadership inspires our students to 
become world-class problem 
solvers, said Ed Schlesinger, 
the David Edward Schramm 
professor and head of the 
department of electrical and 
computer engineering, in a 
university press release.
Brumley also contributes 
some of his success to the environment at Carnegie Mellon. I am very grateful to my 
students and colleagues for 
helping me push the boundaries to improve cyber security, he said in a university 
press release.
During his tenure, Brumley has been the recipient of 
numerous awards, including 
the 2010 United States Presidential Early Career Award 
for Scientists and Engineers from President Barack 
Obama. He received his undergraduate degree in math 
from the University of Northern Colorado and his masters 
degree in computer science 
from Stanford University.
Compiled By
MICHAEL SETZER, BROOKE KUEI
From cosmetics and adhesives to potential medical 
devices, Krzysztof Matyjaszewski has made his mark on 
the ?eld of chemistry and the 
world.
Matyjaszewski, the J.C. 
Warner Professor of the 
Natural Sciences in the Mellon College of Science, has 
recently been awarded the 
AkzoNobel North America 
Science Award. He is the inaugural recipient of the honor, which is jointly presented 
by the American Chemical 
Society (ACS) and the paints 
and coating company AkzoNobel. The award comes 
with a prize of $75,000.
Matyjaszewskis research 
focuses on polymer, or molecular, chemistry. One of 
his largest contributions to 
the ?eld has been the development of atom transfer radical polymerization (ATRP). 
ATRP is helpful to chemists 
because it can allow them to 
build complex polymeric materials from building blocks, 
known as monomers, piece 
by piece. The process allows 
chemists to use a catalyst to 
add a few monomers together at a time, eventually creating a complex polymer.
ATRP was conveniently 
created during a time when 
chemists were searching for 
an easier way to create polymers. Technological limitations made it dif?cult to 
build speci?c and uniform 
polymers, and chemists were 
looking for a possible way to 
control radicalization to create the polymers in a less expensive manner. Matyjaszewski published the paper on 
ATRP in 1995. The process 
took off, as it only required 
typical laboratory instruments.
Additionally, his use of 
catalysts enabled the process to be shut down and 
restarted just by adjusting 
controls such as temperature. 
His 1995 paper has had over 
3,000 citations, and scientists have used his method to 
create products as diverse as 
cosmetics and inkjet printing.
As director of Carnegie 
Mellons Center for Macromolecular Engineering, Matyjaszewski has written 17 
books, 80 book chapters, and 
over 770 peer-reviewed articles. According to a university 
press release, Matyjaszewski 
has been cited over 50,000 
times during his career.
Matyjaszewski, who has 
received numerous other 
awards, will be of?cially honored for his achievements 
at the ACS 245th National 
Meeting and Exposition, 
which will be held April 711 
in New Orleans.
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY CAMPUS NEWS IN BRIEF
Professor receives inaugural AkzoNobel chemistry awardDavid Brumley appointed to 
new ECE faculty position
 Every year, Intel gives an 
Early Career Faculty Award 
to a young faculty member 
who shows great potential 
for achieving groundbreaking advancements in his ?eld. 
The $40,000 award is meant 
to help the recipient with 
research and travel costs. 
The 2012 Intel Early Career 
Faculty Award was given 
to Carnegie Mellons Onur 
Mutlu, assistant professor of 
electrical and computer engineering.
Mutlu received his bachelors degrees in computer 
engineering and psychology from the University of 
Michigan in 2000. He then 
received his masters degree 
for electrical and computer 
engineering in 2002 from the 
University of Texas at Austin 
and his Ph.D. in computer 
engineering in 2006, also 
from the University of Texas 
at Austin. Before becoming a 
professor at Carnegie Mellon, 
Mutlu worked at Microsoft 
Research.
I am honored and humbled to receive this award as 
I work with my students and 
collaborators to develop fundamental breakthroughs to 
enable future computer systems that are much more ef?cient, resilient, predictable 
and economical, Mutlu said 
in a university press release. 
Mutlus research focuses on 
developing microprocessors, 
computer memories, and 
platforms that are more ef?cient and reliable. His research group, known primarily as SAFARI (for safe, fair, 
robust, and intelligent computer architecutre), is part 
of the Computer Architecture Lab at Carnegie Mellon 
(CALCM) and conducts research to improve computer 
systems.
SAFARIs major research 
interests focus on hardware 
and software interface and 
improving parallel computing, the process of computation by which multiple 
calculations are carried out 
simultaneously. We have 
been developing many new 
ways to solve ef?ciency, predictability, and robustness 
problems and combat denial 
of service attacks so endemic 
in todays computer systems. 
My group aims to rethink 
the ways in which we design 
three fundamental functions 
of all computers: computation, storage, and communication, Mutlu said in the 
press release.
An interesting application of SAFARIs work is in 
biocomputing: Mutlus group 
is working on designing systems and devices that can 
improve applications such as 
DNA sequencing. 
We are very pleased to 
be able to recognize the tremendous contributions that 
Professor Mutlu is making to 
the advancement of the performance of computer systems. His work is widely recognized and impacting this 
?eld in numerous ways, said 
Ed Schlesinger, head of Carnegie Mellons department of 
electrical and computer engineering, in a university press 
release.
Besides the Intel Early Career Faculty Award, Mutlus 
work has received numerous 
other recognitions, such as 
various best-paper awards 
and Top Pick paper selections by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers microjournal. Mutlu 
also received the Young 
Computer Architect Award 
from the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers 
and was recognized with the 
George Tallman Ladd Research Award from Carnegie 
Mellon.
ECE professor receives Intel 
Early Career Faculty Award
Courtesy of Wikimedia Commons
Matyjaszewskis lab works with macromolecules like shown above.

---------------------------------------------------

Office: University Center 314
Phone: (412) 268-2111
Fax: (412) 268-1596
Web: www.thetartan.org
E-mail: contact@thetartan.org
Mail:
The Tartan
Box 119, UC Suite 103 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
JENNIFER COLOMA *
Publisher
JOSH SMITH *
Editor-in-Chief
BRADEN KELNER 
Forum Editor 
EVAN KAHN
Copy Manager
JUSTIN MCGOWN
Online Editor
CHLOE THOMPSON
Personnel Manager
BRENT HEARD *
News Co-Editor
Editorial Staff
 2013 The Tartan, all rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN: 0890-3107
The Tartan is a student newspaper at Carnegie Mellon University, funded in part by the student 
activities fee. It is a weekly publication by students during the fall and spring semesters, printed by 
Trib Total Media. The Tartan is not an official publication of Carnegie Mellon University. 
The Editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The 
Tartan Editorial Board. Columns, Editorial Cartoons, and Reviews are the opinions of their 
individual creators. The Tartan Editorial Staff reserves the right to withhold from publication 
any copy it deems unfit.
Letters to the Editor are the opinions of their authors. Letters from within the University community take precedence. Letters intended for publication must be signed and include the authors 
address and telephone number for verification; letters must not exceed 350 words. Authors names 
may be withheld from publication upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject 
any letter. Letters must be submitted by 5 p.m. on the Wednesday before publication by mail or to 
forum@thetartan.org.
StaffEditorial Board
* Denotes executive committee member
SENIOR STAFF 
Stephanie Blotner, Stacey Chin, Greg 
Hanneman, Alan Vangpat
LAYOUT
Chloe Chia, Edward Wojciechowski 
COPY
Swathi Anand, Manali Banerjee, Sawsan 
Boutemine, Matt Brown, Nivedita Chopra, Ellie 
Erlich, Blaine Greenberg, Jordyn Greenberg,  
Chris Han, Satvika Neti, Sage Po, Taylor 
Rawley, Julia Yang
ADVERTISING
Kyle Henson, Gretchen Tan
KELSEY SCOTT *
Operations Manager
NEL UM
News Co-Editor
MICHAEL SETZER
SciTech Editor
ABBY SMITH
Sports Co-Editor
GABRIELLE WEST
Sports Co-Editor
RACHEL COHEN
Pillbox Editor
KAIRAVI CHAHAL
Comics Editor
KATE GROSCHNER
Photo Editor
ANNETTE KO
Art Editor
WILL CRICHTON
Systems Manager
LINDA JU
Advertising Manager
CARMEN KHOO
Business Manager
KELLY HARRINGTON
Asst. Systems Manager
JONATHAN LEUNG
Asst. Photo Editor
WILLIAM PARK
Asst. Forum Editor
BONITA LEUNG
Asst. Copy Editor
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
Asst. News Editor
BROOKE KUEI
Asst. SciTech Editor
LAURA SCHERB
Asst. Pillbox Editor
JONATHAN CARREON
Contributing Editor
ALLISON COSBY *
Contributing Editor
EMILY DOBLER
Contributing Editor
MADELYN GLYMOUR
Contributing Editor
CHRISTA HESTER
Contributing Editor
ANNA WALSH
Contributing Editor
A6  thetartan.org/forum The Tartan  February 4, 2013
FROM THE EDITORIAL BOARD
Let Carnegie Mellons mythical mascots be known
Music-streaming services need to focus on artists
Town Hall a good ?rst step for university discussion
Courtesy of Juan Fernandez
CHLOE THOMPSON
Last week, Apollo Global Management and C. Dean Metropoulos & Co. started the bidding over 
who gets to resurrect the Twinkie. 
The two private-equity ?rms aim to 
achieve this act of necromancy with 
a joint offer of $410 million. This 
means that somebody, somewhere, 
is going to pay a ridiculous amount 
of money to continue clogging 
Americas collective arteries.
After Hostess ?led for bankruptcy last November, I thought that the 
Twinkie had hauled itself to some 
sugary grave to die in peace like it 
should have. 
I looked forward to the days 
when the stale, decrepit snack cakes 
would be worth twice their weight 
in gold, as relics of an ancient and 
golden past. (Can Twinkies even get 
stale when theyre vacuum-packed 
in plastic?) The Twinkie was supposed to be over, ?nished. To everything there is a season.
Now Apollo Global Management 
and C. Dean Metropoulos & Co. 
want to drag the Twinkie back from 
the brink, to restock the shelves of 
America with the oblong cakes of 
our childhood. They are not the only 
ones to seek the revival of Hostess 
varied brands comprised of sugar 
and solid fat. In the beginning of 
January, Flowers Food decided to 
buy Wonder Bread, Natures Pride, 
and other Hostess bread brands. 
Though all of these products evoke 
Americas imminent heart failure, it 
is the Twinkie that stands as king of 
all products cobbled together from 
?our, sugar, and plastic.
For the love of God, let the 
Twinkie die.
Let it limp into its last sunset. Let 
it pull its high fructose corn syrup?lled corpse over that ?nal horizon. 
One Twinkie has over 39 ingredients 
crammed into four inches of cake, 
and thats not natural. Havent we 
suffered enough from its chemically-sweetened presence for the last 
80 years?
Seriously, weve still got McDonalds, Entenmanns, and Little Debbies to keep us fat, though. It is true 
that  none of these brands exemplify 
America the way the Twinkie did. 
The Hostess snack cake is iconic. It sat in our lunch boxes and 
got squashed in our back pockets. 
It even provided the basis for one 
of the most ridiculous defenses 
in American legal history  the 
Twinkie Defense. In the 1979 trial 
of Dan White, accused of assassinating San Francisco Mayor George 
Moscone and supervisor Harvey 
Milk, Whites lawyers argued that 
his excessive junk food consumption was evidence of his underlying 
depression, which in turn provoked 
him to murder the two men. Nothing says murderous depression 
like snack cakes.
The point is, the Twinkie has had 
its run. Yes, it was a part of American childhoods, and American history as a whole, but its time is over. 
We should bid it a fond farewell.
But, of course, everyone involved 
in this particular business deal has 
got at least 410 million reasons to 
ignore me on this one.
Chloe Thompson (cet@) is personnel 
manager for The Tartan.
I read with great interest of the 
forum that was conducted on campus pursuant to the suicide of a student and the issue of the pressure 
and competitive nature of the institution rising to the fore.
It is obvious to me that nothing 
has changed at Carnegie Mellon 
since I attended from 1974 through 
1977.
Perhaps my ?rst mistake was to 
have attended the school out of a 
sense of duty to my late mother, Gloria Siegle Spiegler, a distinguished 
1943 alum from the School of Music, 
who enjoyed a wonderful and gratifying career as piano performer and 
teacher. Mother treasured her days 
at what was then Carnegie Tech.
I was accustomed to being one 
of the students that excelled in elementary and high school, but found 
that at Carnegie Mellon, I was no 
longer anything special as one forgotten member of a group of brilliant individuals. 
I was taken aback by the lack 
of individual instruction, attending lectures with many times the 
number of students as there were 
in my high school classes. It was 
easy to get lost among the masses 
in these huge lecture classes. I also 
had great dif?culty in comprehension and absorption of material delivered by teaching assistants that 
had poor English skills, something 
to which I was not at all accustomed.
I felt that there was little, if any, 
help for the student that found the 
atmosphere at Carnegie Mellon to 
be as challenging and intimidating 
as I did.
I went on to attend and graduate from Robert Morris University 
with a degree in Business Administration and to a successful career in 
the public sector which continues 
after almost three decades. I have a 
soft spot in my heart for the school 
predicated upon what it meant to 
my beloved mother (and I donated 
her two prized pianos to Carnegie 
Mellon upon her death in 2005), but 
CMU was not a factor in any of my 
achievements. 
Oren M. Spiegler
Time to end the Twinkie
LETTER TO THE EDITORPast student talks stress
Braden Kelner/Forum Editor
Carnegie Mellon isn't known for 
school spirit. People generally attribute this to grueling academics, 
the almost equal undergraduate-tograduate student population, and 
students inherent apathy on the subject. In order to enhance Carnegie 
Mellons pride, the university should 
promote the mascots of each school, 
just as the School of Computer Science does with its dragon.
On the banners at commencement, creatures and ?owers are displayed with the names of other Carnegie Mellon schools: The College of 
Fine Arts banner displays a lion or 
chimera, Tepper's banner sports a 
grif?n, and Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences depicts 
a unicorn.
Admittedly, the banners for Heinz 
College, the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology, and the Mellon College 
of Science exhibit different types of 
plants, not creatures  but it would 
be simple to establish mythical creatures as mascots for these departments. The students in MCS would 
probably trade a phoenix mascot for 
their current bluebell any day.
Having of?cial mascots for each 
school  preferably mythical creatures like those of SCS and Dietrich 
 would not only induce playful 
competition between schools, but 
also encourage pride for ones school 
and the university as a whole.
Establishing multiple mascots to 
instill competition and camaraderie 
is hardly a novel concept: Yale has 
been doing it for a long time. Each of 
Yales residential houses has its own 
mascot, from a walrus to a thunder 
chicken. These may seem like quirky 
choices for the faces of schools, but 
theyre no quirkier than Carnegie 
Mellon's plaid emblem. Students 
across campus would no doubt enjoy 
having school-speci?c mascots that 
they could call their own.
If mythical mascots like the Tepper grif?n were wellknown, Carnegie Mellon could even incorporate 
them into its University Store merchandise. New merchandise would 
be a welcome change from the numerous and relatively boring realizations of Carnegie Mellon attire.
Pride is important at any university. Mascots could help to achieve the 
increased sense of pride and school 
spirit that is in need at Carnegie 
Mellon.
In response to the conversation 
sparked by the loss of Henry Armero 
and Katie Chironis recent op-ed 
piece regarding Carnegie Mellon's 
culture of stress, Dean of Student 
Affairs Gina Casalegno, Vice Provost for Education Amy Burkert, and 
Student Body Vice President Meela 
Dudley hosted a Town Hall meeting 
for students, faculty, and staff to 
explore CMU culture and our wellbeing as a community.
We thank the University for addressing our campus stressful culture. The Town Hall meeting was 
a step in the right direction, and a 
large number of campus community 
members showed up to demonstrate 
their interest in the discussion. Furthermore, we look forward to Carnegie Mellons future actions regarding 
this issue   but we must highlight 
the ?aws of the Town Hall that were 
apparent.
The ?rst half hour of the Town 
Hall was spent enumerating the universitys efforts to establish a positive 
community. The hosts wasted valuable time that could have been spent 
listening to students. While their 
speeches were well articulated, they 
could have been more concise.
These speeches contributed to a 
second notable ?aw: Attendees that 
wished to voice their opinions were 
not given enough time to speak. At 
least 20 people did not get to talk 
during the meeting. For future Town 
Halls, a website could be created for 
students to sign up in advance to 
speak. A predetermined time limit 
for speeches could also be instituted, 
so that everyone would be guaranteed an opportunity at the podium.
Many students also shared narrative-driven stories at the Town Hall. 
While the stories were admirable, 
many were only tangentially related 
to Carnegie Mellons culture and prevented some students from speaking.
Despite these ?aws, the Town 
Hall was highly attended, and it 
successfully increased community 
involvement in regards to the stress 
culture. The people that spoke during the session offered a variety 
of discussion topics and solutions. 
While the Town Hall was meant to 
identify the problem in our campus 
and the sources of stress, some students voiced solutions to speci?c 
aspects of our community. The solutions they voiced were valuable 
as well. Sophomore Kelsey Dietz 
recommended a three-unit course 
called Caring@Carnegie Mellon, 
which would teach students how to 
remain emotionally healthy while 
balancing university life. This type of 
course would be helpful for ?rst-year 
students adjusting to a new life without parental guidance and would 
remain relevant to them throughout 
their time at the university.
Given how important this discussion is to the campus, and to 
students general health, we hope 
Carnegie Mellon continues this discussion and we look forward to what 
will inevitably be a gradual but important change.
The music industry has had to 
adapt to the Internet. Industry leaders have been forced to ?gure out 
how to best utilize the Internet and 
stop piracy due to increased access to 
music and music-sharing. Solutions 
include easy-to-use systems to purchase songs, such as iTunes. However, Spotify and the recent proliferation of music-streaming platforms 
have changed the business model 
once again, according to a recent article in The New York Times.
The concept of having free access 
to a large portion of popular music 
is appealing, not only to the cashstrapped college crowd of Carnegie 
Mellon but to anyone who wants 
more for less. However, the business 
model of unlimited free music access 
for users needs to be re-evaluated 
due to a minimal payout for artists.
Music-streaming platforms, such 
as Spotify and Pandora, pay the record companies on a per-listen basis. 
According to The New York Times, 
the payment artists receive from 
Spotify per play is between 0.5 and 
0.7 cents, or between $5,000 and 
$7,000 per 1 million listens on the 
service. If this were an artists only 
source of income, it would not be 
sustainable, according to Hartwig 
Masuch, chief executive of BMG 
Rights Management.
The dynamic that artists, record 
companies, music distributors, and 
music listeners have with each other 
must be rede?ned in a world where 
streaming seems to be the future of 
not only the music industry, but the 
realm of personal information and 
content as well.
As a consumer, streaming music 
with no up-front cost is a great deal, 
since it allows people to easily discover new music and thus increase 
the consumer bases of individual 
artists. However, artists need to receive fair payment for the music they 
produce. If that remains the case, the 
system needs to change or people 
have to become more aware of the 
ethics of how they consume music.

---------------------------------------------------

A PERSONS OPINION
Compiled by Jonathan Leung
Yesterday was the Super Bowl. So we asked,
What were your plans for the big game? 
February 4, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/forum  A7
Courtesy of Juan Fernandez
CATHERINE SPENCE
The Carnegie Mellon community 
has found a new outlet for complaining, trolling, and messing around on 
the Internet in the Facebook page 
CMU Confessions. 
The page now has over 900 likes 
and hundreds of posts ranging in 
length from a short phrase to short 
stories. 
Besides wasting time reading all 
the posts, some people start online 
wars by commenting about racism, 
sexism, and other issues plaguing 
our campus. Although its admirable 
to care about your beliefs, posting 
your opinions on CMU Confessions is 
a waste of time. You are not addressing the original author of a post, nor 
do you know what the original intent 
of the post was.
For those of you smart enough to 
avoid the page all together, the way it 
works is simple. The person running 
the page has created an anonymous 
Google Survey that students can 
?ll out. Barring some very extreme 
cases, all confessions will be posted 
to the Facebook and Twitter feeds of 
the account within a few days. 
The biggest problem is that anyone can post anonymously, and 
readers of the page have no idea 
if they are addressing a fellow student, some random person, or their 
best friend. This uncertainty is what 
makes commenting on posts such a 
colossal waste of time.
The Internet is full of websites 
that are victim to trolling, de?ned 
by urbandictionary.com as the art 
of deliberately, cleverly, and secretly 
pissing people off, usually via the 
Internet, using dialogue. CMU Confessions is a prime example of a page 
that attracts people who do just that. 
Many anonymous posts to the group 
are understood, and rightfully so, as 
racist, sexist, or just plain mean.
Does replying to these anonymous posts actually do anything? 
In my opinion, the answer is no. By 
getting worked up about posts made 
anonymously, all you are doing is 
making someone more likely to post 
something obnoxious again.
CMU Confessions should continue to be a place that people feel 
safe offering their opinions, secrets, 
or anything else they want to share 
anonymously with other students, 
but I dont think paragraph-length 
replies are necessary or worthy of 
anyones time. 
Next time you see a post that 
upsets you, stop and realize that by 
posting a long reply berating the 
anonymous author of the original 
post, you are giving that person the 
satisfaction they want. Take a minute and realize its probably more 
constructive to become involved in 
an organization that works to end 
the kind of discrimination that upset 
you. Use the anger you feel toward 
these ill-informed and anonymous 
cowards to do some good.
CMU Confessions de?nitely isnt 
all bad though. The page is full of 
well-intended compliments, gripes 
people identify with, and tragic stories of unrequited love (Im looking 
at you, green-eyed Indian girl). I 
think reading the page is a lot of fun, 
and even leaving a word or two of encouragement here or there for someone struggling with their academics, 
self-esteem, stress or other issues is 
de?nitely a nice thing to do. However, beware of wasting your time 
when something makes you mad. 
Getting into heated arguments 
does nothing to change the underlying problems, and instead perpetuates a cycle of offensive posts. In the 
wise words of Maya Angelou, If you 
dont like something, change it. If 
you cant change it, change your attitude. Dont complain. Instead of 
complaining about ignorant comments, be proactive and do something about it.
Catherine Spence (cspence@) is a 
staffwriter for The Tartan.
KYLE HENSON
It is a dark and stormy night. You 
and a friend ?nd yourselves walking 
home through an unfamiliar set of 
alleys. Twisting and turning in darkness, you trudge through the rain, 
gradually overtaken by the panic of 
being lost. A shadow emerges from 
the dark. You see an elderly man 
succumbing to arthritis, yet somehow still able to confront you with 
a .45-caliber pistol. He doesnt ask 
you for anything now, but he knows 
where you live and will kidnap you if 
you dont meet his future demands. 
As an ailing senior, he needs no more 
than a percentage of every paycheck 
you earn to pay for his daily expenses and healthcare. In return, he says, 
when you age, youll be able to rob 
younger and abler people as well.
Many agree that, in the situation above, the geriatric mugger is 
wrong. Hes using force to rob you. 
Despite being comically delivered, 
this is exactly what Social Security 
and Medicare do. Remembering 
that government simply serves the 
people, by eliminating the middleman we see a situation in which elderly people are committing generational theft against younger citizens.
Transfer payments follow this 
logical thought process. They are 
robbery from one group of citizens 
to another group, backed by force 
and with the guarantee that if you 
found yourself in the same situation, 
youd be able to rob others in a similar manner. Obamacare transfers 
money from the healthy to the sick; 
Social Security and Medicare take 
money from the young and give it 
to the old; welfare transmits money 
from the rich to the poor. Yet if any 
of these programs were to be broken 
down into the individual transactions they represent, like the elderly 
man in the alley, we would call these 
actions immoral.
Actions impermissible at the individual level should not be permissible at the mob level.
If these transfers are truly the 
will of the people as a whole, then 
charitable programs with voluntary 
participation would theoretically ?ll 
the same void with the same amount 
of money. If the peoples will is truly 
being represented, we dont need to 
be coerced into participating in this 
transfer. Yet if coercion is the only 
means of achieving these types of 
transfers, then they are not the will 
of the people.
Charities exist to augment these 
programs, and people give to them. 
Most hospitals have charity funds 
to cover people in need. There are 
voluntary support programs for the 
elderly, as well as families who support their parents and grandparents 
when they become too old to support themselves.
One counterargument to this 
point is that people wont be able 
to keep track of donating to the individual charities that ?ll the voids 
that transfer payments currently 
occupy. Yet, should the government 
step out of this area, conglomerate 
charities would emerge that distribute money to all of the areas that 
government has left behind.
One advantage of having charities ?ll this void is the ef?ciency 
gain that competition would bring 
to the ?eld. Having the bureaucracy 
of government replaced with the ef?ciency of markets and private enterprises would ensure that more of 
the money put toward these causes 
would not fuel inef?ciency. 
The entitlement programs that 
these transfer payments perpetuate are major drivers of the de?cit. 
Eliminating them would make our 
government more solvent. This 
proposed system is functional and 
workable. A lack of government interference would bring ef?ciency 
gains that would help those in need 
more than transfer payments, which 
dont necessarily re?ect the will of 
the people.
Kyle Henson (kahenson@) is a staffwriter for The Tartan.
Fellow Tartans,
On Monday, Jan. 28th, 300 students, faculty, staff, parents, and 
community members joined us in 
Rangos 1 for a Town Hall intended 
to address Carnegie Mellon culture. 
The Town Hall, which was hosted by 
Dean of Student Affairs Gina Casalegno, Vice Provost Amy Burket, and 
the leaders of student government, 
was intended to spark conversation 
amongst its attendees regarding 
stress, mental health, and well-being 
at Carnegie Mellon.
The Town Hall was an important 
?rst step in what we hope will be a 
long period of feedback, re?ection, 
and eventual change. We were overjoyed to see so many members of our 
community and administrators come 
together to express their concern regarding these important issues.
We wanted to quickly mention a 
few of the larger issues that we identi?ed from the discussion that occurred at the Town Hall. In the next 
couple of months, we will be working 
hard to gather more information and 
hopefully make some progress on 
issues related to how we de?ne success, extracurricular involvement on 
campus, professional development, 
stress and time management, general 
student well-being and recreational 
activity, preparation for incoming 
freshmen, health services, and the 
stigmas regarding mental health in 
our community. While this scope is 
broad, we feel that there is a great energy on campus dedicated to addressing these issues, and we can serve as 
a central point to coordinate the multiple efforts to solve these problems.
That being said, one of the most 
important points we were able to 
extract from the conversations that 
were had at the Town Hall is that 
these conversations need to continue. We are very interested in working to develop some kind of system to 
increase feedback and conversation 
similar to what was experienced during the Town Hall  whether it be 
more Town Halls, some sort of online 
forum, or both.
We have been so excited by the 
amount of enthusiasm surrounding 
the Town Hall and the dedication students are showing to ?nd solutions 
post-conversation. One thing we 
want to stress to the Carnegie Mellon community is that we will be able 
to achieve more if we work together. 
If you are an individual or involved 
in a group that has ideas regarding 
these topics or is currently planning 
a project or plan that helps tackle any 
of these issues, please contact us. We 
want to help you in your endeavors, 
connect you to resources as well as 
gain a holistic perspective on all the 
efforts on campus as we work to tackle this issue together. The enthusiasm regarding these issues is incredibly exciting, but it can also become 
chaotic at times  we want to ensure 
that groups are not overlapping in 
their initiatives or programs.
In the next couple of weeks, we 
will be ironing out the details of our 
proposed solutions. Please feel free to 
contact us at sbp@andrew.cmu.edu 
or sbvp@andrew.cmu.edu if you are 
at all interested in participating or 
have feedback.
Will Weiner and Meela Dudley
Student Body President and Vice 
President
Transfer payments are legal form of robbery
Julie Kim
International Relations & Politics
Senior
Nursing a throat infection.
Daniel Glaser-Garbrick
Computer Science
Senior
I forgot it was this weekend.
Sarah Menio
Chemistry
Senior
Going to a friends place to 
watch it.
Brian Ip
Computer Science & Math
Sophomore
Watching it.
Debbie Lin
Civil Engineering
Sophomore
Eating lots of food.
Comment wars dont start change
EDITORIAL ART
We see a situation 
in which elderly 
people are 
committing 
generational thefts 
against younger 
citizens.
LEADERSHIP PERSPECTIVEStudent Government addresses recent Town Hall on stress culture

---------------------------------------------------

A8  thetartan.org/special The Tartan  February 4, 2013
Career Fair
ZANETA GRANT
Junior Staffwriter
When going to the EOC, it 
is important to have a strong 
rsum to make you stand 
out from all of the other candidates. Here are some short, 
informal guidelines for writing a rsum.
Header
In the heading, the name 
comes ?rst, and you want 
that to be the most prominent 
part. Make it noticeable, under 40 point font, and either 
left-align or center-align it. A 
nice, bold name in a formal 
serif will suf?ce. The address 
at which the writer receives 
most of his or her mail, as 
well as a phone number and 
email address, should also be 
in the heading. If you have a 
personal website, list it there 
as well.
Education
The education section 
is where to put relevant intended majors or minors, 
expected graduation date, 
and the name and location of 
ones school. Once in college, 
the writer should try to avoid 
placing his or her high school 
on the rsum. You can include your GPA if it is high 
given your current major  
especially if you are a Deans 
List honoree. If your GPA is 
poor, leave it off  if they really want to know, theyll ask.
Experience
Here is the trickiest and 
most important part of your 
rsum. When listing experiences, you should choose the 
ones that connect skills to the 
jobs quali?cations. However, 
dont copy full-length sentences word for word from 
the job advertisement. 
What you should do is 
try to articulate your skills 
in a way that sounds similar 
to the skills the employer is 
looking for in a candidate. 
Eliminate use of ?rst-person 
if possible, and dont forget to 
use active verbs when listing 
the tasks your job entailed. 
For example, Flipped burgers (dont put that on your 
rsum) is the correct form of 
verb to use. You should also 
try to use short bulleted lists 
to make it easier to scan the 
information. And stay concise  no one wants to read 
eight paragraphs about your 
retail experience.
Activities
In some cases, your activities might even be more 
relevant than your actual 
work experience, and should 
thus be boldly and centrally 
placed. You should try your 
best to list your most relevant 
activities. For example, if you 
are applying for a web design 
internship, list related activities: copy writing, search engine optimization, or visual 
design experience. In terms 
of activities which are not related to the position, it is important to highlight activities 
you can actually speak about, 
not clubs where you attended 
a single meeting. As always, 
either cut out the irrelevant 
information, or ?nd a way 
to tie it into the way you sell 
yourself.
Skills
This is where you advertise any skills that havent 
been addressed in the other 
sections. Be sure you are actually advertising real skills, 
not generic qualities that anyone can claim. List languages 
you speak and languages you 
code. List a hobby or two that 
may be something an interviewer can connect with and 
better understand you as a 
person.
Take your rsum seriously, and have someone like 
an adviser look over it for you 
because their advice will be 
tremendously valuable. If 
you dont, you could make 
really silly mistakes. Try to be 
professional, or at least avoid 
doing something foolish.
Editors note: This article was 
run in a previous issue. It has 
been edited to ?t in the space 
available.
SHWETA SURESH
Tartan Alumna
When it comes to making a 
good ?rst impression, appearance matters. Carnegie Mellon students have a reputation 
of not caring too much about 
(supposedly) trivial things 
like attire. But at job fairs, recruiters are judging students 
not only by their rsums but 
also the color of their suits.
With this in mind, it is imperative that students try to 
look polished and conservative. Finding the right heels or 
the perfect tie is as important 
as formatting a rsum.
Women
Since the dress code for 
the conferences is business 
formal, women should stick 
to a conservative suit or skirt 
in black, navy, or gray. Wearing a suit jacket is a must, or 
you will end up looking too 
casual for the event. Also, try 
to avoid wearing lacy or silky 
camisoles under your jacket. 
A crisp shirt in a solid color is 
a much better option  not 
only is it a safe, conservative 
bet, but it also looks smart.
When it comes to styling, 
all attempts should be made 
to create a clean and polished 
look. Hair should be tied back 
neatly in a pony tail or pinned 
back so that it doesnt fall on 
the face. Nude pantyhose are 
a must if you are wearing a 
skirt suit, and even if you are 
wearing a pant suit, wear thin, 
nude socks.
When it comes to accessories, the choice of shoes is an 
important one. Dont pick the 
stylish, open-toed heels you 
would wear to a night out. Instead, go with a sensible pair 
of pumps. A quick tip: Make 
sure you are comfortable in 
your heels. Job fairs involve a 
lot of standing and waiting in 
lines, and you dont want to be 
doing all of it with sore feet. 
Add some simple jewelry to 
make your look more elegant 
and attractive. Stay away from 
large, chunky necklaces and 
long, dangly earrings. Find 
simple studs and a small pendant that suit your out?t and 
youre good to go.
Men
A business suit is also a necessity for men. While colors 
like black, navy, and gray will 
all work, men can also impress 
in a pinstriped suit. A white 
shirt is the safest bet, and it 
is important to make sure the 
shirt cuffs are close to one-half 
of an inch longer than their 
jacket sleeves.
A special feature of the 
mens look is the tie. Remember: The tie is supposed to 
serve as an accessory, not an 
attention-grabber; leave your 
Homer Simpson tie at home 
and wear something more 
suited to the occasion. Additionally, if this is your ?rst 
time tying a tie, practice a 
few times before the day of 
the conference. YouTube has 
some good tutorials that can 
prove useful. Make sure your 
tie is not too long and hanging 
below your belt, or too short 
and stopping above it.
Its important to keep in 
mind that, even though you 
may have put the perfect  interview out?t together, all of 
it will amount to nothing if 
you are not con?dent about 
your appearance. While adhering to the dress code and 
smartening up your attire are 
essential, remaining cool and 
con?dent about yourself is 
even more important.
Editors note: This article was 
run in a previous issue. It has 
been edited to ?t in the space 
available.
Kate Groschner/Photo Editor and Kelsey Scott/Operations Manager
Contributing Editor Jonathan Carreon and undecided ?rst-year CIT student Anna Mirabella model appropriate EOC attire.
Dressing to impress at a career fairBuilding a strong EOC rsum
Educational Level of Accepted Applicants
Full-time vs. Internship Opportunities 
EOC Company Infographics
Greg Hanneman/Senior Artist and Kelsey Scott/Operations Manager
Above: A word cloud of the ?elds in which this years EOC companies are looking for applicants. The larger a 
word is, the more companies are looking for applicants in that ?eld. Top right: A bar graph of the number of 
EOC companies looking for applicants at each educational level. Bottom right: A Venn diagram of the employment opportunities offered by this years EOC companies.
Importance of Skills to EOC Employers

---------------------------------------------------

February 4, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/special  A9
Companies at Employment Opportunities Conference 2013
*Addepar
Adobe Systems, Inc.
Alcoa
AllianceBernstein
Amazon.com, Inc.
Andreessen Horowitz
A venture capital ?rm established 
in 2009 that provides funding to 
new tech startups, Andreessen 
Horowitz was a sponsor at this 
years TartanHacks hackathon. 
Andreessen Horowitz has invested 
in companies including Airbnb, 
Apptio, Box, Fab, Foursquare, 
GitHub, Jawbone, Lytro, Pinterest, 
and Twitter.
Ansys, Inc.
AOL
Astrobotic Technology, Inc.
Based in Pittsburgh, Astrobotic 
Technology, Inc. was developed 
from Carnegie Mellon Universitys 
Robotics Institute in 2008. Its goal 
is to create affordable space robotics 
technology and enable planetary 
lander and rover missions.
athenahealth
Avencore
Avere Systems, Inc.
Bechtel Marine Propulsion Company
Bechtel Plant Machinery, Inc.
Blend Labs
Bloomberg
Branding Brand
Founded by Carnegie Mellon 
graduates Chris Mason, Joey 
Rahimi, and Christina Koshzow 
 and based in Pittsburgh, PA  
Branding Brand powers mobile 
commerce sites and apps for leading 
brands, including American Eagle 
Out?tters, Crate & Barrel, Ralph 
Lauren, Dicks Sporting Goods, 
General Nutrition Centers, and 
Sephora. Its work is regularly noted 
by independent research ?rms 
including L2 and and Forrester.
Bridgewater Associates, LP
Broadcom Corporation
*Capital One
Carnegie Learning
Caterpillar, Inc.
*Central Intelligence Agency
Cisco Systems
Compunetix
comScore, Inc.
comScore, an Internet analytics 
company that provides marketing 
data to other companies, is looking 
for internship applicants. comScore 
was founded in 1999.
Cooper Tire & Rubber Company
Counsyl
Credit Suisse
CustomInk
Decisive Analytics Corporation
Deloitte & Touche
Deloitte & Touche, or DRT 
International, specializes in 
professional services and focuses 
on a worldwide market. Some of 
its services include tax advising, 
consulting, and ?nancial advising.
Dropbox
*eBay Inc.
Epic
Expect Labs
Expedia
Explorys
Facebook
Factset Research Systems, Inc.
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority
Fino Consulting
General Dynamics Advanced Information 
Systems
General Dynamics C4 Systems
Global Computer Enterprises
Green Hills Software, Inc.
HGST
Hyland Software
IBM Corporation
Indeed.com
Intel Corporation
Intuitive Surgical
IXL Learning
*Johnson & Johnson
*Knewton
Lab126
*LGS Bell Labs Innovations
Life Technologies
LinkedIn
*Liquidnet Holdings, Inc.
Lutron Electronics
M.C. Dean, Inc.
ManTech International Corporation
*MasterCard
Maya Design, Inc.
Maya Design, Inc., which was 
founded in 1989 by three Carnegie 
Mellon University colleagues, is 
primarily a design consultancy 
?rm and technology research lab 
that strives to assist its clients 
in designing useful technology 
products.
McAfeee, Inc.
McMaster-Carr
*Medallia, Inc.
MemSQL
*Meraki
Microsoft
MIT Lincoln Laboratory
*ModCloth, Inc.
Morgan Stanley
National Instruments
National Security Agency
NetApp
NetSuite
Next Jump, Inc.
Oak Ridge Institute for Science and 
Education
Oracle Software and Hardware 
Development
OSIsoft, Inc.
*Palantir Technologies
*Pitney Bowes
PS Solutions
Raytheon BBN Technologies
ReliabilityFirst Corporation
Riverbed Technology
Robert Bosch LLC-RTC
Rockwell Automation
rue21
Salesforce.com, Inc.
Samsung Austin R&D Center
*Sandia National Laboratories
SanDisk
Schlumberger
Schlumberger is an oil?eld 
services company  a company 
that provides services such as 
evaluation, testing, and information 
management to petroleum 
companies.  Schlumberger is 
looking for full-time and internship 
applicants.
*Sentrana, Inc.
Shutter?y, Inc.
Spiceworks
Spot Trading
Synacor, Inc.
Tagged, Inc.
Tandent Vision Science
*Target Chip Ganassi Racing
Texas Instruments
The Mathworks, Inc.
The MITRE Corporation
TripAdvisor
Tumblr
Ultimate Software
Union Paci?c Railroad
Vertica
Victory Media, Inc.
*VistaPrint
*VK Technology
VMware
Wayfair
WhaleShark Media
Wolverine Trading LLC
Yahoo!
Zynga
* Companies marked by an asterisk will be 
present at the EOC on both Tuesday and 
Wednesday.
TUESDAY, FEB. 5WEDNESDAY, FEB. 6
Accenture
*Addepar
American Eagle Out?tters
Axcient
Blackstone
Booz Allen Hamilton
*Bossa Nova Robotics
Carnegie Mellon spinoff Bossa Nova 
Robotics specializes in personal 
robotics. Their mission: to put 
robots in peoples lives. Located 
in Pittsburghs Strip District, their 
robots are designed for physical, 
verbal, and visual interaction with 
people, and have the ability to 
navigate through crowds of people 
with ease.
*Capital One
*Central Intelligence Agency
Cyan, Inc.
Dow Agrosciences
*eBay, Inc.
Endless Mobile
Evraz
Federal Reserve Board
General Dynamics Electric Boat
General Motors
Google, Inc.
Gorbel, Inc.
Grant Street Group
In?ection
In?ection is a startup company that 
focuses on distilling information to 
users through new and innovative 
methods. The companys name was 
inspired in part by the Internet, as 
it is a metaphor inspired by the 
rapid growth of technology and the 
Internets transformative impact on 
the world.
Informatica
Institute for Physical Sciences
*Johnson & Johnson
*Knewton
KnowledgePath Solutions, Inc.
Koryak Consulting
Koryak Consulting is a local 
consulting ?rm that advises clients 
in business, operations, and 
information technology strategy. It 
is seeking full-time and internship 
applicants.
Leanplum
*LGS Bell Labs Innovations
Liberty Mutual Insurance Group
*Liquidnet Holdings, Inc.
LORD Corporation
*MasterCard
McGraw Hill Financial
*Medallia, Inc.
*Meraki
Founded by two Ph.D. students, 
Meraki is one of the ?rst cloudmanaged network infrastructure 
companies. It aims to provide 
the world with cloud-managed 
products. Cisco acquired them in 
December 2012.
 *ModCloth, Inc.
MokaFive
MSA
NVIDIA
Opower
Originate, Inc.
*Palantir Technologies
Parsons
PDT Partners, LLC
*Pitney Bowes
PlaceIQ
PPG
Raytheon Company
Rhiza Labs
Rite Aid
*Sandia National Laboratories
*Sentrana, Inc.
ServiceLink
Source?re
SpiralGen
Founded in 2009 by Carnegie 
Mellon students and professors, 
SpiralGen is a Carnegie Mellon spinoff company built around Spiral 
technology, which enables software 
to write computer code libraries. 
SpiralGen is looking for full-time 
and internship applicants.
Square, Inc.
*Target Chip Ganassi Racing
The Bank of New York Mellon
The Johns Hopkins University Applied 
Physics Laboratory
Two Sigma Investments
US Patent and Trademark Of?ce
USAA
Vallourec & Mannesmann
*VistaPrint
*VK Technology
Workday

---------------------------------------------------

A10  thetartan.org/sports The Tartan  February 4, 2013
VINAY VISWANATHAN
Junior Staffwriter
The Tartans womens basketball team lost two major 
conference games this past 
weekend. The ?rst loss was 
against Washington University 
in St. Louis last Friday, and the 
second against the University 
of Chicago yesterday. 
These two losses brought 
the Tartans season record to 
119 and their UAA conference record to 36.
The ?rst loss of last week, a 
8554 game against the Washington University Bears, came 
after a 7357 loss against 
Washington University two 
games prior. 
The Bears scored the ?rst 
10 points of the game, and 
rounded out the ?rst half of 
the game with a score of 49-
21. The Tartans attempted a 
late-game comeback, but the 
Bears easily retained their victory.
In offense, the Bears dominated the game through team 
effort, holding a continuous 
lead in the game that reached 
41 points at its maximum. Of 
the 85 total points scored, 46 
came off the bench, with 15 
different Bears putting points 
on the board.
The Tartans were successful at defense, with four more 
rebounds than their opponent. 
Key players on the Carnegie Mellon side included 
sophomore Gabrielle West 
and senior Emily Peel, whose 
efforts in cutting the point 
de?cits in the second half of 
the game unfortunately came 
up too short.
In offense, however, the 
Tartans struggled, dropping 
31 turnovers and giving just 
nine assists in the entire game, 
which was half of the total of 
the previous match against 
Washington University.
The game on Feb. 3 against 
the University of Chicago 
produced similar disappointments; the Maroons won the 
?rst 14 points of the game, 
with UChicago shooting a 50 
percent as ?eld shots. 
Unlike the Bears, however, 
the Maroons made many offense errors, allowing 27 turnovers compared to the Tartans 
13.
On Jan. 27, the Tartans conquered UChicago in a 7668 
win. An increase in rebounds 
was essential to the Tartans 
victory, as the team gained 23 
more rebounds in this second 
game. 
Away games are always 
more dif?cult than home 
games, as ?rst-year forward 
Mathea Tenwalde suggested 
when she said Traveling and 
away trips are something we 
need to overcome to become a 
great team. 
West scored 15 points 
against Washington University 
and 10 against UChicago, with 
junior Jacquie Shaw attaining 
17 points in the match against 
the Maroons.
But the Tartans are looking 
forward to ?nish the season on 
a high note. 
Team captain, senior Tori 
Baggio, said, This weekend 
wasnt our easiest, however, 
we are excited for our last 
home weekend of the season 
coming up.
Editors Note: Gabrielle West 
is Sports Co-Editor for The 
Tartan.
Womens basketball suffers losses away
Ravens conquer in Super Bowl
ABBY SMITH
Sports Co-Editor
Sophomore Mike McDermott, deemed an Australian kangaroo by one of 
his teammates, is a critical 
member of Carnegie Mellons mens track team, 
specializing in the jumping 
and pole-vaulting events. 
McDermott was recently named the University 
Athletic Association (UAA) 
Athlete of the Week after 
helping the Tartans win 
the Lid-Lifter Invitational 
held at Denison University 
on Saturday, Jan. 26.
McDermott recorded 
three personal career records in his signature 
events, coming in ?rst 
overall in the pole vault 
after clearing a height of 
4.25 meters.
He then placed fourth 
in the long jump with a 
leap of 6.20 meters, while 
throwing a distance of 
10.23 meters in the shot 
put.
I was particularly excited by my jump, McDermott 
said. It was a great way to 
start off the season.
The track season comes 
with high expectations, as 
the Tartans took second at 
the indoor track UAA championships last year.
My goal for the team 
this year would be to sweep 
the UAA indoor and outdoor 
championships, McDermott 
said. I think that we could 
do this as long as we stay focused.
McDermott is no stranger 
to the mental preparation 
that is essential to track and 
?eld, after struggling  to 
jump and vault while sustaining multiple injuries. 
Although he joined pole 
vaulting and jumping a 
senior in high school as a 
joke, it has clearly grown 
into much more.
I found that I was actually good at it, McDermott 
said. I love the fear factor 
[of pole vaulting]. Its truly 
unique.
McDermott also commented on the team as a major asset. We are not just a 
team, but a family, he said.
His teammates could not 
agree more. 
Sophomore business administration major Sasha 
Spalding was not short of 
praise. [Mike] is very dedicated and very supportive 
of the overall success of the 
team. He is a great friend 
and he knows how to play 
hard and work hard. [Mike] 
started with a new personal 
best and was back training 
the next day. No matter what 
pain he is in he does not give 
up, Spalding said. He is a 
role model and a great guy.
He is one of the best athletes on the team and contributes in many events. On 
his personal level, his toughness is inspiring and the 
way he deals with injuries 
is unreal, said senior materials science major Daniel 
Cardenas Rivero, who specializes in pole vaulting and 
jumping.
McDermott noted that 
the team loves to have fun 
too, and just goof around. 
Both me and [Cardenas 
Rivero] have a special dance 
that we do before we vault, 
he said.
Even more important 
than the dance is what I 
think about on the runway 
though. The last thing I 
think about before I vault is 
the last country song I listened to before we got off 
the bus, and then my mom, 
he added.
Overall, McDermotts 
focus proves to contribute 
greatly to his success, both in 
the pole vault pit and in the 
classroom. 
The biomedical engineering and materials science 
double major is also part 
of the pre-med program, 
where he hopes to revise 
a burn therapy treatment 
and get his research project 
funded in order to move toward a patent this summer.
For now, McDermott , the 
Australian kangaroo, sets 
his sights on making it to 
nationals and embracing every moment he gets to vault, 
which is at home out on 
the ?eld. 
Not many people get 
the chance to charge with a 
15-foot pole and ?ing themselves into a pit, he said. 
Im thankful for it.Kate Groschner/ Staff Photographer
ATHLETE PROFILEMike McDermott jumps and vaults to UAA success
Swim team competes ?ercely at Pitt
ELIZABETH MARTIN
Junior Staffwriter
The Carnegie Mellon 
mens and womens swimming teams competed at the 
University of Pittsburgh last 
Saturday against Pitt, Clarion 
University, and Grove City 
College to ?nish off their 
regular season. The womens 
team also competed against 
California University of Pennsylvania. 
They defeated Clarion 
152143, Cal U 23548, and 
Grove City 19493. For the 
men, the Tartans best ?nish of the day went to sophomore Andrew Yee, who won 
the 1,000-yard freestyle with 
a time of 9:55.74, his seasonbest time. First-year Adam 
Pinson also had a season-best 
time at the competition of 
1:54.62 in the 200-yard freestyle, ?nishing second in the 
event. 
Sophomore Michael Kellman gave the Tartans another 
second-place ?nish with a 
time of 1:58.67 in the 200-
yard backstroke. Two Carnegie Mellon athletes ?nished 
back to back in the 200-yard 
breaststroke; ?rst-year Peter 
Podniesinski ?nished second with a time of 2:11.20, 
out-touching sophomore Roy 
Sung. 
Junior Terrence Wongs 
time of 52.16 in the 100-yard 
butter?y gave the Tartans another second-place ?nish, followed by sophomore David 
Campbells time of 1:58.22 in 
the 200-yard individual medley. 
In the 500-yard freestyle, 
?rst-year Matthew Nielsen 
?nished third with a time of 
4:48.20. Sophomore Christopher Ball competed on the 
three-meter diving board 
and tallied 54.41 points and 
tallied 109.95 points on the 
one-meter board. First-year 
teammate Ioannis Michailidis tallied 98.75 points on the 
three-meter board and earned 
113.41 points on the one-meter board.
For the women, in the 200-
yard butter?y, junior Megan 
Garvey ?nished second for 
the Tartans with a time of 
2:12.35, and junior Vivian 
Wong competed in the 200-
yard breaststroke and ?nished 
with a season-best time of 
2:29.01. 
First-year Kira Singhaus 
time of 1:00.95 placed her 
third in the 100-yard backstroke; she also earned third 
place in the 200-yard backstroke with a time of 2:13.59. 
Sophomore teammate Kristin 
Dlesk ?nished with a 1:01.63, 
placing fourth. 
Junior Soleil Phan placed 
third in the 100-yard butter?y 
with a 59.84 time and ?fth in 
the 200-yard freestyle with a 
1:57.23 time. Finally, in the 
diving event, ?rst-year Winona Li represented the Tartans in two events where she 
recorded 175.95 points on the 
one-meter board.
Overall, the meet was a 
success for the Tartans, who 
will head to the UAA Championships in less than two 
weeks.I felt that overall it was 
a very good championship 
meet for those who ?nished 
their season in Pitt and a very 
promising indicator of how 
the UAA team will perform in 
Chicago, said ?rst-year business major Felicia Ruiyi.
The next event for the 
mens and womens teams is 
the UAA Championships in 
Chicago from Feb. 1316.
Jonathan Leung/Assistant Photo Editor
First-year Peter Podniesinski competes in one of his signature breastroke events. 
Traveling and away trips are 
something we need to overcome in 
order to become a great team.
Mathea Tenwalde
First-year forward
Not many 
people get 
the chance to 
charge with a 
15-foot pole 
and ?ing 
themselves 
into a pit.
Mike McDermott
CARL GLAZER
Staffwriter
Its funny to think that 
the ?nal offensive play for 
the Super Bowl-winning 
Baltimore Ravens was their 
punter madly scrambling 
around the end zone, trying 
to avoid a hit in order to run 
out the clock before taking 
the inevitable safety to stop 
the game. But that ?nal play 
perfectly summed up the this 
game for Baltimore, going 
up 286 before a 34 minute 
power outage at the start 
of the third quarter robbed 
them of their momentum and 
allowed the 49ers to mount 
a feverish comeback, falling 
just short on a controversial 
fourth down in the end zone 
with under two minutes to 
play. The ?nal score, 3431, 
was much closer than the rest 
of the game. But the game, 
which seemed to be a sealed 
deal for the Ravens after 
their receiver Jacoby Jones 
returned a 108-yard kickoff 
for a touchdown, turned into 
a nail biter after the 49ers 
mounted at 286 comeback 
following the power outage.
The Ravens came out and 
dominated the 49ers in the 
?rst half, with quarterback 
Joe Flacco connecting with 
receivers Anquan Boldin, 
Dennis Pitta and Jones for 
his three touchdown passes. 
They tried, even trying for 
a fake ?eld goal when they 
were already up by 11, and 
made the most of two 49ers 
turnovers, a fumble by running back LaMichael James, 
and a thrown interception 
by quarterback Colin Kaepernick. 
Following Beyonces stunning halftime show with Destinys Child, Jones returned 
the kickoff to start the second half and it seemed the 
Ravens had put the game out 
of reach. But the MercedesBenz Superdome had other 
ideas, when half of the lights 
in the stadium suddenly went 
out due to a power surge. After a 34-minute delay where 
the players were forced to 
stay on the ?eld and remain 
warmed up, play ?nally resumed with the 49ers facing 
a third down and 13 yards. 
By the time the Ravens 
offense ?nally regained the 
?eld, 84 real-time minutes 
had passed since they last 
touched the ball, before halftime and the power outage. 
That time off really disrupted 
the ?rst-half rhythm Flacco  
had with his receivers and 
forced the Ravens to punt on 
their ?rst two possessions after the outage and succumb 
to a fumble by running back 
Ray Riceon their third. The 
49ers strung together four 
straight scoring drives after 
they punted immediately 
following the outage. Kaepernick scored touchdowns 
both with his legs and with 
his arm on a touchdown pass 
to receiver Michael Crabtree, 
and running back Frank Gore 
added one on the ground. 
Flacco did ?nally managed to wake up his offensive 
leading them on back to back 
drives of 71 and 59 yards. 
But each time came up short, 
settling one for two Justin 
Tucker ?eld goals. This all 
culminated with Kaepernick 
and the 49ers getting the 
ball back with just over four 
minutes remaining, down by 
?ve, needing a touchdown 
to take the lead. Kaepernick 
then threw three incomplete 
passes to Crabtree, burning a 
timeout after nearly taking a 
delay of game penalty. 
On fourth down, the 
49ers blitzed and got immediate pressure on Kaepernick to just toss up the ball in 
Crabtrees direction. Jimmy 
Smith, the Ravens cornerback on the play, appeared 
to grab and hold Crabtree 
after the ball was in the air, 
but the referees didnt throw 
the ?ag for holding or pass 
interference, making the pass 
incomplete.
This made it di?cult for 
the Ravens punter, Sam 
Koch, who was in the end 
zone with 12 seconds left 
on fourth down before taking the eventual safety that 
sealed the game. This was after 49ers receiver Ted Ginn Jr. 
harmlessly returned the punt 
just past mid?eld as time expired both on the game and 
the NFL season. 
In the end, all of the builtup story lines did not matter 
anymore. Ravens linebacker 
Ray Lewis, ?nished an outstanding 17-year career with 
another Super Bowl, and Ravens Coach John Harbaugh 
defeated his younger brother 
Jim in the matchup of headcoaching brothers. The game 
belonged to Joe Flacco, who 
was awarded the MVP for 
his three-touchdown, nointerception performance. 
Coming into his ?nal season 
before free agency, Flacco 
called himself an elite quarterback much to chagrin of 
the Raven faithful who routinely blamed him for their 
teams playoff woes, but this 
season established both him, 
and the Ravens as the crme 
de la crme of the NFL.

---------------------------------------------------

Campus fashion
Get your best fashion inspiration from 
fellow Carnegie Mellon students  B6
02.04.13 Volume 107, Issue 16

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
Check out this weeks comics by a Carnegie 
Mellon alumna.
8
Dollar Movie
AB Films presents three top-notch animated 
movies this weekend in McConomy.
4
The Tartan . Box 119 . UC Suite 103 . Carnegie Mellon University . 5000 Forbes Ave . Pittsburgh, PA 15213 . www.thetartan.org .  2013 The Tartan
PUBLISHER Jennifer Coloma EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Josh Smith
PILLBOX EDITOR Rachel Cohen ASSISTANT PILLBOX EDITOR Laura Scherb COMICS EDITOR Kairavi Chahal 
ART EDITOR Annette Ko PHOTO EDITOR Kate Groschner 
COPY MANAGER Evan Kahn COVER Peter Leeman
6
35
regulars...
Advice
Everything you need to know about accidental 
stalking and plotting revenge.
3
...diversions
...this week only
Iain M. Banks
The Hydrogen Sonata is better suited for 
longtime readers of the Culture series.
3
LEGO LotR
The most recent LEGO video game presents 
an imperfect but compelling digital world.
4
Hummingbird
The Local Natives newest album incorporates 
elements from other indie releases.
5
Fashion
Carnegie Mellon students find fashion muses in 
their peers on campus.
6
Did You Know?
Did you know that research at Carnegie Mellon 
explored whether tweets are worth reading?
5
Puzzles
Give these puzzles a shot to keep your brain 
alert.
9
Horoscopes
Will you get that interview at the EOC? Find 
out in this weeks horoscopes.
10
Calendar
Consult the calendar for events happening on 
and off campus this week.
11

---------------------------------------------------

literature
pillbox 02.04.133
Iain Banks lays on inside jokes
The Hydrogen Sonata appeals to long-term fans of series
Iain M. Banks is a Scottish author who is renowned 
for his series of space opera novels about the 
Culture. The Culture is a galaxy-spanning 
civilization thats solved most of its problems. 
Everybody can have any material thing they desire; 
people can take on inhuman appearances and 
change sex at will over the course of a month; and 
for the most part, people only die if they choose to, 
usually after 400 years or so.
The Culture isnt populated just by humans: There 
are also drones  floating sentient robots that glow 
different colors to indicate their emotions  and 
the Minds, clever, surprisingly human, artificially 
intelligent beings that run the ring-shaped space 
stations and kilometer-long starships that make 
up the Cultures territory. To justify living in a 
utopia, the people of the Culture often help younger 
civilizations find a way to their level, or at the very 
least prevent interstellar wars. These interactions 
are the main focus of the Culture novels.
One of the best things about Banks series of novels 
about the Culture is the undercurrent of inside jokes. 
The war that serves as the backdrop to the earliest 
entry in the series is frequently referenced in later 
books. The ships of the Culture are all given cheeky 
names: In one book, we meet a ship named Whos 
Counting and in another book we meet the Me, Im 
Counting  a real treat for longtime readers.
Unfortunately, these inside jokes hold back the latest 
entry in the series, The Hydrogen Sonata. Most of 
the previous novels would only be enhanced if you 
had read the earlier ones, but The Hydrogen Sonata 
requires them. If you know about the Interesting 
Times Gang, the Azadian Affair, and the Excession, 
youll likely have a lot of fun with this book, but 
those unfamiliar with the series will find themselves 
lost in a maze of references and previously 
established concepts that arent adequately 
explained in the text itself.
The scenario Banks sets up is pretty exciting. The 
Gzilt, a civilization on par with the Culture, is days 
away from ascending to a higher plane of existence. 
For this to work correctly, nearly all Gzilt people 
need to agree to do it at the same time, but the 
happy occasion is threatened by the revelation of an 
ancient secret.
Our protagonist is Lieutenant Commander Vyr 
Cossont, a young woman who has grown an 
extra set of arms to play the titular song on the 
intentionally complicated string instrument, the 
bodily acoustic Antagonistic Undecagonstring. 
She has been tasked with discovering the truth 
about the Gzilts past, and does so by contacting a 
friend of hers, a man from the Culture who has been 
alive for thousands of years. Standing in her way is a 
Gzilt politician who wants his society to Sublime, 
no matter the cost.
Banks changes the formula a bit from prior works, 
with the protagonist being more passive and a 
Ships avatar playing a larger role than most of the 
humans and drones. The action feels a little clunkier 
than it did in the previous novel, Surface Detail.
If all this piques your interest, then youre either 
intrigued by this world of technical wizardry with 
godlike machines and people whose main purpose 
in life is to enjoy it, or youre already a fan. If you 
fall in the latter category, youll probably enjoy The 
Hydrogen Sonata, but everybody else should start at 
the beginning with Consider Phlebas or peruse the 
two strongest entries in the series, Use of Weapons 
and The Player of Games.
Justin McGown | Online Editor
Courtesy of Tom Page via Flickr
Advice for awkward people
Dear Patrick,
I think a girl in some of 
my classes thinks Im 
stalking her. (Before we 
get started, Im not.) We 
had a couple of classes 
together at first, but I 
switched up my schedule 
and now shes in every 
one of my classes. How 
can I prove Im not a 
stalker? She lives on the 
sixth floor of Morewood in 
D-Tower.
Thanks,
Ignorantly Trailing 
Schoolmate And Need 
A Convincing Cover 
Idea; Despite Exterior, 
Not Trying It; Shes 
Worried; Eagerly Awaiting 
Response
Dear ITS AN ACCIDENT I 
SWEAR,
Dont worry, weve all 
been there. When I was a 
first-year in E-Tower, I used 
to watch people out my 
window, which some people 
thought was kind of creepy. 
I guess watching through a 
newspaper with eyeholes 
cut in it didnt really help. My 
point is, I wasnt intentionally 
trying to creep people out, 
and neither are you. 
With all that in mind, you 
should totally start stalking 
her. My life motto is in for 
a penny, in for a pound. 
Thats why I black out every 
weekend. She already thinks 
youre a stalker, so you 
might as well stalk her. You 
seem to be doing a pretty 
good job already. 
A restraining orders a 
great excuse for skipping 
class,
Patrick Hoskins
Dear Patrick,
Some friends of mine 
threw a party last week, 
and they didnt invite me! 
Apparently Im banned 
from their apartment for 
life. All I did was puke 
all over their kitchen 
at the last party! And 
their bathtub. I mean, I 
even left two dollars for 
cleaning stuff. What can I 
do to get back at them?
Thanks,
Unfortunately Need To 
Avenge Complete Taboo 
I Cannot Accept, Lifetime 
Castigation Hurting 
Unfairly Now, Despite 
Elapsed Ralphing
Dear UNTACTICAL 
CHUNDER,
You are the worst kind of 
person. Is it so hard to puke 
in the bathroom? You know 
its coming. No one is ever 
really surprised by vomit. 
You always feel it welling up 
in your stomach, bubbling 
like a witchs cauldron. And 
you only left two dollars!?!? 
What did you do after that, 
kick their puppy on your way 
out? You cant even buy 
Lysol for two bucks.
If you insist on getting 
back at them, you can try 
throwing a counter-party in 
protest. Same night, same 
time, with all the other 
people who were banned. 
And go to an ATM. Two 
dollars? Seriously? Youre 
like a real-life Britta.
Communitys comin 
back!
Patrick Hoskins
Need advice? Send queries 
to advice@thetartan.org.
About accidental stalking and getting revenge
Iain M. Banks new sci-fi novel, The Hydrogen Sonata, might lose new readers with its plethora of 
references to previous books in the series.

---------------------------------------------------

4games
pillbox 02.04.13
When LEGO started producing video games with LEGO 
Island in 1997, it was an exciting moment for video 
game fanatics everywhere. LEGOs foray into gaming 
continued with mostly its own games (i.e., non-licensed 
material) for the next eight years. Then, in 2005, LEGO 
teamed up with the British TT Games to create the ?rst 
of many in a series of movie-based LEGO games, LEGO 
Star Wars: The Video Game. Fast forward almost eight 
years, 10 LEGO-themed licensed games, and great 
strides in every aspect of the LEGO-based game worlds, 
and we have LEGO Lord of the Rings.
LEGO Lord of the Rings is unlike any of TT Games 
LEGO games released to date. In the ?rst LEGO Star 
Wars, the player experiences the ?rst three movies 
(Episodes 1  3) in an episodic manner: There is a central 
hub from which the player selects an episode within a 
movie and plays through it.
LEGO Lord of the Rings, on the other hand, features 
an almost entirely open world, in which one actually 
travels across a (slightly smaller) Middle Earth and plays 
sequentially through each of the three movies. At ?rst, 
this change seems a bit annoying  more of a hindrance 
than an improvement. There doesnt seem to be an 
easy way for fast travel, and the characters move just a 
bit too slowly to make backtracking, something that is 
emphasized in the TT Games LEGO games, a viable 
option.
After further exploration, however, its clear not only 
that there are ways to fast-travel between places, 
but also that the open world gives the game a bit of a 
Grand Theft Auto feel: Most of the objects in the world, 
including people, can be destroyed and will give the 
player money. The destructibility of the landscape has 
always been a feature in the LEGO games, but the open 
world gives a new perspective to it.
In addition to playing through the movies sequentially, 
TT Games has also managed to nab licensing to the 
original soundtrack and audio clips from the actual 
movies themselves. This feature will surely win over Lord 
of the Rings fans: Although certain scenes were omitted 
or changed to make the game more kid-friendly, seeing 
LEGO ?gurines quoting scenes line-for-line adds new 
depth to the game. There is nothing more rewarding 
than riding Shadowfax across the plains of Rohan as a 
LEGO Gandalf. The voice clips are clearly ripped straight 
from the movies themselves, so you can pick out certain 
movie sounds in the background if you try.
While LEGO Lord of the Rings continues the TT Games 
tradition of backtracking and replaying levels, it is not 
as repetitive as other games are, thanks to the ability to 
explore an open world (even though dastardly invisible 
walls get in the way now and again). There are also 
a handful of bugs that, if not handled carefully and 
correctly, result in having to quit the level and start 
again. The new inventory system could also use a bit 
of work, as could the awful platforming sections, and 
there are plenty of fetch-quests, but these are only 
slight annoyances overall. The game keeps up the usual 
slapstick comedy and even incorporates a few memes 
into the game. For example, theres a wounded soldier 
who took an arrow to the knee in the battle of Helms 
Deep, and theres an achievement for walking into 
Mordor.
Overall, LEGO Lord of the Rings is not as polished 
a game as it could be  though when TT Games 
is turning out more than one game a year, that may 
be expected. However, it is by far the most visually 
stunning and emotionally compelling LEGO-licensed 
game that exists to date, and its certainly worth picking 
up if you like LEGO or The Lord of the Rings. Its not 
game-of-the-year material, but it is good fun, and thats 
what a game is supposed to be. 
7.5/10 bricks; will beat to completion.
Ryan Black | Junior Staffwriter
Take a LEGO adventure through Middle Earth
Despite bugs, LEGO Lord of the Rings is an enjoyable game with an open world to explore
Matthew Zurcher | Staffwriter
AB Films begins a week of top-shelf animation with 
Monsters, Inc. If you ask people what their favorite Pixar 
movies are, they probably wont answer with Monsters, 
Inc.  but if you remind them about it, they will surely 
gush about its charm and hilarity. Billy Crystal and John 
Goodman turn in unforgettable vocal performances as 
two professional monsters who scare children to power 
their metropolis. This is a movie thats hard to dislike; it 
may be Pixars most imaginative effort.
Monsters, Inc.
Thursday, Feb. 7
8 10 12
The Incredibles
Saturday, Feb. 9
8 10 12
The Incredibles is the best ?ick Pixar has made yet, and 
it has a strong claim to the best-superhero-movie-ever 
award. It is at once a family drama, a comedy, a thriller, 
and an action/superhero movie. Its structure is radical 
and its villain is almost unthinkable. Its the riskiest 
Pixar ?lm  and who does risk better than Pixar? The 
Incredibles tells the story of a family of superheroes, 
each with a special power. Relationship troubles and 
typical family struggles are woven effortlessly into Pixars 
inimitable fantasy and action universe. The animation is 
bold and insane: Remember the shot of Dash running 
across the water? This is a movie thats never worth 
missing.
Wreck-It Ralph
Friday, Feb. 8
8 10 12
Many tend to forget that great animation can be made 
outside of Pixars juggernaut studio, and Wreck-It Ralph 
is de?nitively proof of this. John C. Reilly voices the titular 
character, a video game villain who rebels against his 
archetype and dreams of being the hero. Disney studios 
produced an imaginative, glorious design, frequently 
referencing and paying homage to video game culture.
dollarmovie
McConomy Auditorium, University Center

---------------------------------------------------

music
pillbox 02.04.135
When the Local Natives announced the imminent 
release of their second album Hummingbird, 
amongst the wild cheers of twenty-somethings in 
skinny jeans everywhere, two questions arose.
The ?rst question: How would the band function 
in the studio setting without former bassist Andy 
Hamm? The Local Natives have had a successful 
tour and are set to perform at Coachella in April, but 
how would a more transcendental and less-grounded 
sound fare against inevitable comparisons to the 
smash-hit ?rst album Gorilla Manor? (Answer: Very, 
very well. But more on this later.)
The more far-reaching question remains. In 2010, 
critics at Pitchfork, Rolling Stone, and elsewhere 
took great pains to compare the Local Natives 
debut album Gorilla Manor to every popular indie 
band out there. And who can blame them? That year 
was indie rocks renaissance, with The Black Keys 
Brothers, Vampire Weekends Contra, and Arcade 
Fires The Suburbs, which won the Grammy for Best 
Album. But the fact is that Gorilla Manor sounded as 
if it had taken all the good aspects of every popular 
indie band and made it into an album  a great one, 
to be sure, but nothing wholly original.
This is not to say that the Local Natives consciously 
take ideas from other indie bands and incorporate 
them into songs like Bowery  which, since were 
already talking about comparisons to other bands, 
sounds like something from a Shins album. Okay, a 
really good Shins album. But with Hummingbird, did 
the Local Natives create something fresh and new?
Yes, they did  but not in the way youd expect.
Like many popular alternative rock albums of the 
21st century, the Local Natives new effort sounds 
very much as if it were produced in a studio, with 
an ample amount of reverb on tracks like heartwrenching You & I and dense rock-out session 
Wooly Mammoth. But indie rock is such a vague 
category, with such a broad spectrum, that there 
are no telling aspects of the genre: One can only 
compare certain types of sounds among bands in 
the genre, and the studio-produced feel of popular 
albums is one of the few general staples of the 
modern incarnation of the genre.
The sound in Hummingbird is slightly brighter and 
at times more rhythmically complex than that in 
Gorilla Manor: Its richer, rounder, more somber, and 
more subtle. Kelcey Ayers vocals ride the tracks 
like gulls on thermals, proving especially powerful 
in thickly orchestrated songs like Black Spot and 
Wooly Mammoth. However, the band saves the 
better lyrics for songs where you can actually hear 
them, like in Colombia. But the bands philosophy 
has ultimately remained unchanged: Listeners can 
easily make the same comparisons to Arcade Fire 
and Animal Collective that they could make with 
Local Natives previous album. And that is perfectly 
all right.
Much of the new albums smooth powerhouse 
aesthetic and sweet production quality can 
be attributed to the bands unof?cial new ?fth 
member: Aaron Dessner of The National. While not 
a replacement for Hamm in any respect, Dessner 
brought some songwriting muscle to the table 
and, more importantly, helped record and produce 
Hummingbird in his Brooklyn apartment.
Hummingbird presents positive proof that, yes, 
theres nothing new under the sun. But a band can 
use that knowledge to their advantage. The Local 
Natives show that they dont need to pull the Animal 
Collective card out and change their sound every 
album in order to sell out venues internationally.
Evan Kahn | Copy Manager 
Reinventing reverb in rock
Local Natives Hummingbird reuses indie material
Taylor Rice, shown here performing in Minneapolis 
in 2010, is a vocalist and guitarist in Local Natives. 
Courtesy of Derrick Austinson Photog via Flickr
Catherine Spence | Staffwriter
Did you know?
100years ago
Jan. 16, 1913
The Fulcrum Club elected its newest 
officers to serve the club until 
January 1914. The club also held its 
business meeting to make sure all of 
its affairs were in order. To finish out 
the meeting, the Glee Club joined 
the engineers and presented several 
songs to get everyone excited about 
engineering.
50years ago
Feb. 13, 1963
Carnegie Tech lost its chance at 
second place in the Pittsburgh 
Intercollegiate Rifle League to 
Washington & Jefferson. The team lost 
its next match to Geneva, which was 
particularly upsetting because the men 
lost by only six points, finishing the 
match at 13871381.
25years ago
Feb. 2, 1988
One student chronicles his love affair 
with codeine, specifically in the form 
of Robitussin. The entire article is a bit 
random, a fact he blames entirely on 
the loopy effect of the cough syrup. 
He urges other students to find a 
reason to give codeine, specifically 
Robitussin, a try.
10years ago
Feb. 3, 2003
Pillbox explores the best pancakes 
Pittsburgh has to offer. DeLucas 
Restaurant in the Strip District takes 
first place in taste, and Ritters Diner 
in Bloomfield offers the most bang for 
your buck. For the frugal, directions on 
how to make Jiffy pancakes at home 
are also included.
5years ago
Feb. 4, 2008
Jonathon Hurst, graduate student 
in the Robotics Institute, is working 
with a professor at the University 
of Michigan to explore the running 
mechanism in robots. The end goal is 
to offer military personnel a resource 
to carry heavy bundles and to assist 
people with limited mobility. 
1year ago
Feb. 6, 2012
Researchers at Carnegie Mellon, MIT, 
and Georgia Tech claim that Twitter 
users think only a third of the tweets 
they see every day are worth reading. 
They use an algorithm to figure out 
what people deem worth reading so 
Twitter can improve user experience. 

---------------------------------------------------

feature
pillbox 02.04.1376feature
pillbox 02.04.13
Fashion trends usually take off when theyre ?rst 
introduced to the world on the runway. From there, 
courageous celebrities who are willing to make a 
statement adopt the trend, prompting the general public 
to join in on the fad.
But people are generally inspired by the trends they 
are surrounded by, as opposed to those they have read 
about. The explosion in popularity of social media sites 
like Pinterest, Tumblr, and Instagram is a clear indication 
that people have a tendency to look to their peers for 
new trends  especially on our own campus.
Students at Carnegie Mellon are commonly 
characterized by their diverse backgrounds and 
talents, and this diversity is re?ected in the variety of 
approaches to fashion seen on campus. Despite the 
number of individual styles, there are certain trends, 
such as denim shirts and military-style jackets, that most 
students seem to have embraced and incorporated into 
their personal styles. Of course, these items of clothing 
are popular off campus as well. However, not only do 
they seem to be emphasized here, but they are also worn 
in unique ways by Carnegie Mellon students.
Denim Shirts
Denim shirts, as previously mentioned, have long been 
in style. Considered a staple by some, this trend more 
recently became popularized in 2010 and has stayed 
popular since. Denim, or chambray, shirts can be found 
in a variety of colors or patterns. Urban Out?tters has 
several, including the BDG Chambray Button-Down 
Shirts, which can be found printed with white polkadots or ?owers. To manage walking to class in 10 F 
weather, many Carnegie Mellon students layer a sweater 
or cardigan over the denim shirt for added warmth. 
Longer sweaters, especially those with a cozy cable knit, 
generally look great with a denim shirt.
Students also tend to wear brightly colored in?nity 
scarves over chambray shirts. The collar of the shirt 
would be hidden from view, but the denim shirt has the 
same effect. Some like to wear their denim shirts with 
jeans, but if you want to avoid the denim-on-denim look, 
opt for a pair of leggings or jeans in a different color.
Military Jackets
Prior to the drop in temperature that caused most 
people to switch to their warm, puffy jackets, the green 
military-style jacket had been a common choice for many 
students at Carnegie Mellon. This trend can be adjusted 
to the colder weather by layering it over warm sweaters. 
There are several military-style jackets available at 
Forever 21, some of which are embellished with studs 
and faux leather sleeves. These jackets look great when 
paired with either an oversized sweater and leggings or 
a shorter sweater and jeans.
One of the advantages of this trend is its versatility. 
Complete the out?t with a pair of boot socks that 
peek out over the top of your favorite boots. Continue 
the trend with military-style boots, such as the Steve 
Madden Camarro boots, which have been seen all over 
campus. For someone whose style isnt as edgy, the 
olive green military-style jacket looks great over a dress 
with tights, boot socks, and boots. Another option is a 
military-style vest, which looks exactly like the jacket but 
without the sleeves. Vests may not be the best option 
for this type of weather, but students at Carnegie Mellon 
sometimes opt for them on slightly less frigid days. Like 
the jacket, this vest, worn over a large sweater and 
leggings, makes for a stylish out?t.
Accessories
Speaking of making statements with legwear, wearing 
patterned tights is another common trend seen around 
campus. They are also very versatile; they can be worn 
with dresses, skirts, and even shorts. Patterned tights, 
Students put personal spin on fashion trends
Runway fashions are adapted to suit Carnegie Mellons style, Pittsburghs weather
Left: Deren Guler, a masters student in Tangible 
Interaction Design, adds texture to her outfit with 
patterned tights. Top Right: Celine Berger, a junior 
cognitive science major, layers a sweater over a 
button-down for added warmth.
                  Peter Leeman | Junior Photographer
by Nikita Mishra | Staffwriter[]
which are available in most stores, can add another 
dimension to an out?t that may initially have seemed 
boring. If youre not sure where to start, check out the 
website modcloth.com to choose from a variety of tights.
While some students accessorize with tights, others 
complete their out?ts with statement jewelry. Necklaces 
are a common choice because they are easy to throw on 
over an out?t and are not as uncomfortable as chandelier 
earrings. The J. Crew bubble necklace gained a great 
deal of popularity toward the end of last year and 
inspired the statement necklace trend.
The bubble necklace can be found in a variety of colors, 
and similar necklaces can be found in several locations. 
Francescas Collections in Shadyside carries a seemingly 
endless supply of statement necklaces. Brighten up 
a simple cream-colored sweater with one of these 
necklaces. Layer a shirt under the sweater, with the 
collar of the shirt visible to give this out?t a preppy vibe; 
a statement necklace provides the ?nishing touch. This 
combination looks great with a pair of jeans, or even 
with a skirt if youre willing to put in the effort.
For more unique jewelry, try the website etsy.com, where 
handmade, one-of-a-kind items are sold. You can either 
search for something speci?c or browse through the 
jewelry section of the website. The bene?t of Etsy is that 
there is more variety in the style of jewelry available. 
Bubble statement necklaces are available on this site, 
but there are other types of necklaces as well.
Some prefer making a statement with simpler necklaces, 
and such jewelry could be found through the Rare Bird 
shop on Etsy. Some Carnegie Mellon students have been 
following the Chevron pattern trend, and necklaces of 
this type, such as the Geometric Gold Triple Chevron 
Necklace, are also available at this Etsy shop.
Skirts
Necklaces are an easy way to dress up an out?t, but 
there are other ways of achieving this as well. Its 
tempting to choose the most comfortable clothes before 
you leave for class in the morning. However, on those 
days when you want to dress up a little, a skirt or dress 
is the obvious option. Skater skirts have been seen 
around campus quite often. On days that are slightly 
warmer, pair the skirt with a button-up shirt. Otherwise, 
switch the shirt for a sweater and add a scarf and tights 
for extra warmth. A skater skirt in a ?oral pattern is a 
great way to accommodate for the weather as it moves 
towards the strange period between seasons; the skirt 
is a reminder that spring is on the way, but it will still 
look appropriate for the winter when paired with warmweather clothing.
Considering that were at Carnegie Mellon, most of us 
dont have the time to pay attention to what celebrities 
are currently wearing, or what different sources are 
saying is in style. Moreover, people are more likely to 
gain fashion inspiration from their peers. Though this 
school isnt especially known for its fashionable student 
body, there are many students who fall under this 
category, and they are a great source of inspiration when 
youre stuck on what to wear.
Left: Eylul Engin, a masters student in architecture, wears an infinity scarf for added warmth. Center: Daniel Tyler Mathews, a masters student in costume design, evokes 
old military style with a coat with epaulets. Right: Sophomore computer science major Celine Nguyen stays warm in a velvet skirt with tights.
                  Peter Leeman | Junior Photographer
                  Peter Leeman | Junior Photographer

---------------------------------------------------

8comics
pillbox 02.04.13
crinkledcomics.com
Crinkled Comics by Juan Fernandez
jjfernan@andrew

---------------------------------------------------

puzzles
pillbox 02.04.139
Solutions from Jan. 28
CrosswordMedium DifficultyMedium Difficulty
Kakuro Puzzle: Easy Difficulty Sudoku Puzzle: Very Hard Difficulty
Sudoku courtesy of
www.opensky.ca/~jdhildeb/software/sudokugen/Kakuro courtesy of www.krazydad.com
Fill all empty squares using numbers 1 to 9 so the sum of 
each row equals the clue on its left, and the sum of each 
column equals the clue on its top. No number may be used 
in the same row or column more than once.

---------------------------------------------------

10horoscopes
pillbox 02.04.13
1. Thin stratum
2. Author ___ Stanley Gardner
3. Wander
4. Foresee
5. Wears well
6. Horton Hears ___
7. Juilliard deg.
8. Future tulip
9. Bed down
10. Globe
11. Take ___ Train
12. American football measure
13. French summers
21. Tacit assent
23. Surprise Symphony composer
26. Loudness units
27. Govt. security
28. Composer Bruckner
29. First prime minister of India
30. Church areas
31. Dull surface
33. Agitates
34. Berts buddy
35. Tending to sag
37. Numbered rd.
38. Scots refusal
41. Author Calvino
42. Threshold
47. Aptitude
49. Drinking cup
51. Insect stage
52. Quotes
53. Sleipnirs rider
54. Payment for travel
55. Linen source
56. Antlered animal
57. Venerable English monk
58. Gap
59. Baseballs Hershiser
60. Domesticate
63. Hindu title
1. Slave
5. Gentle ones
10. Eye sore
14. Switch ending
15. Dreadful
16. Excellent, slangily
17. Banned apple spray
18. Oil source
19. In this place
20. Souvenir
22. Decapitates
24. Floors
25. Hole goal
26. Rise to ones feet
29. Where some vets served
32. Affirmatives
36. ___ account (never)
37. Having a wavy margin
39. Lilt syllable
40. In spite of
43. DDEs command
44. Cylindrical
45. Not a dup46. Actress Berger
48. Employ
49. Amble
50. Entirely
52. Junkyard dog
53. Transfer data, to a peripheral 
device
57. Honcho
61. Roys singin pardner
62. Bowling alley button
64. When said three times, a 1970 
war movie
65. Teherans country
66. Mesa ___ National Park
67. K-6
68. Immediately following
69. Sign of spring
70. Soccer legend
ACROSSDOWN
EOC-scopes
aries
march 21april 19
That tie with that shirt? Yeah, right.
taurus
april 20may 20
Good thing the EOC is this week, because it looks like the 
stars are aligned for you.
gemini
may 21june 21
Just be patient; youll find what youre looking for.
cancer
june 22july 22
Proofread your rsum. Yes, again.
leo
july 23aug. 22 
Your overconfidence might make a bad first impression, so 
watch out.
virgo
aug. 23sept. 22
Youre going to get a huge opportunity; dont be afraid to 
seize it and move forward.
libra
sept. 23oct. 22
You know what you want, but you arent good at 
communicating it. Practice in the mirror before the EOC.
scorpio
oct. 23nov. 21
Ask for more. You might just get it.
sagittarius
nov. 22dec. 21
You need to be more focused and stop trying to squeeze 
so many things onto your rsum.
capricorn
dec. 22jan. 19
The decisions you make at the EOC are going to affect your 
whole career, so tread carefully.
aquarius
jan. 20feb. 18
Your persuasion skills will be put to the test this week.
pisces
feb. 19march 20
Dont go to the EOC angry. Release any pent-up energy 
before, or else youll do something stupid.
Kairavi Chahal | Comics Editor
Crossword courtesy of BestCrosswords.com

---------------------------------------------------

calendar
pillbox 02.04.1311
MONDAY2.4.13
School of Architecture Lecture: Isaac Campbell. 
Carnegie Museum of Art Theater. 6 p.m.
Portland-based architect Isaac Campbell, co-founder of 
multidisciplinary design ?rm Of?ce 52, will give a lecture 
at the Carnegie Museum of Art Theater. Campbells ?rm 
is designing Carnegie Mellons new Sherman and Joyce 
Bowie Scott Hall.
TUESDAY2.5.13
Brown Bag Chamber Music Concert. McConomy 
Auditorium. 12 p.m.
The School of Music is putting on an hour-long concert 
featuring student soloists and chamber music ensembles. 
The event is free and open to the public, and audience 
members are encouraged to bring their lunch.
School of Art Lecture: Shana Moulton. 
Kresge Theater. 5 p.m.
Performance and video artist Shana Moulton will give 
a lecture as part of the Carnegie Mellon School of Art 
Lecture Series. More information on Moultons work can 
be found at cmu.edu/art/lectures.
WEDNESDAY2.6.13
Open Mic Night. Skibo Caf. 6 p.m.
AB Skibo will present a free open mic event during which 
student performers can showcase their talents.
Hannah Dobbz. Big Idea Cooperative Bookstore & Caf 
(4812 Liberty Ave.). 7 p.m.
Author and Pittsburgh resident Hannah Dobbz will speak 
at the Big Idea Cooperative Bookstore about her new 
book Nine-Tenth of the Law: Property and Resistance 
in the United States. Dobbz, a former squatter, will 
speak about squatting and property struggles in the 
United States from colonial times to the present. More 
information is available at www.thebigideapgh.org.
THURSDAY2.7.13
[En]coding Architecture. Various locations (Carnegie 
Mellon). Through Feb. 9.
The [En]coding Architecture conference covers a range 
of topics including the autonomy of architecture, code, 
fabrication, material, robots, machinic desire, and 
computational theory. The conference includes a number 
of workshops, lectures, and exhibitions. It is free, but 
participants must register beforehand. More information, 
including a schedule of conference events, can be found 
online at encodingarchitecture.org.
Kishi Bashi. The Underground. 7:30 p.m.
Singer and multi-instrumentalist K Ishibashi (also known 
as Kishi Bashi) will perform at The Underground. Kishi 
Bashi creates unique sound environments through 
looping vocals and violin samples. The concert is hosted 
by AB Underground and is free and open to the public.
FRIDAY2.8.13
Dirty Charms. brillobox. 10 p.m.
Pittsburgh-based garage rock band Dirty Charms will 
perform at brillobox. The Williams Band and Johnny 
Naples Trio will open the concert. The concert is for 
ages 21 and up, and more information can be found at 
brillobox.net.
SATURDAY2.9.13
Out of Order: Shawn Rudiman. Belvederes Ultra-Dive. 
9 p.m.
Techno DJ Shawn Rudiman will perform a live, three-hour 
set. Local DJs Paul Fleetwood and Relative Q will open 
with a back-to-back set. The event is for ages 21 and up 
and costs $5 at the door.
ONGOING
Cartoon Nihilism. 707 Penn Gallery. Through Feb. 17.
Cartoonist Craig Freeman presents new works that 
explore themes of nihilism, depression, and suicide. The 
gallery is open Wednesday through Sunday.
Inventing the Modern World: Decorative Arts at the 
Worlds Fairs, 18511939. The Carnegie Museum of Art. 
Through Feb. 24.
This exhibit features works ranging from jewelry to 
furniture that showcase changing tastes in aesthetics and 
design within the span of nearly nine decades.
Power Pixels. Wood Street Galleries. Through April 7. 
The Wood Street Galleries is hosting an exhibit by visual 
artist Miguel Chevalier that features two self-generative 
video installations. The exhibit also includes the world 
premiere of Chevaliers latest work, Pixels Wave. 
More information and gallery hours are available at 
woodstreetgalleries.org.
Feminist and...The Mattress Factory. Through May 26.
This exhibit features works by six female artists from 
around the world, aiming to show that feminism is a 
multivocal, multigenerational, and multicultural movement, 
not a single-issue set of political beliefs. The exhibit was 
guest-curated by Hilary Robinson, a former professor of 
art theory and criticism at Carnegie Mellon.
UPCOMING
Lunar Gala: Venin. Wiegand Gymnasium. Feb. 16.
Carnegie Mellons annual student fashion show is coming 
up on Feb. 16. Student designers will be showing off 
their work in Wiegand Gymnasium. More information is 
available at cmulunargala.com.
Compiled by Allison Cosby | Contributing Editor
Want your event here?
Email calendar@thetartan.org.

---------------------------------------------------

12gallery
pillbox 02.04.13
Kate Groschner | Photo Editor
Fifth-year senior decision science and economics and statistics double 
major Will Weiner hosted a perk-off between vocal percussionists 
from the eight participating a cappella groups at the Varsity Vocals ICCA 
Great Lakes Quarter?nal on Saturday night in McConomy Auditorium. 
Carnegie Mellon groups Counterpoint and The Originals participated, 
with The Originals placing ?rst overall and advancing to the semi?nals.
a cappella.
