PILLBOX
Carnegie Mellons student newspaper since 1906
New tool allows 3-D photo manipulation  A4Guardians of the Galaxy makes a heartfelt debut  B7CMU offers more outdoor athletic equipment  A8
SPORTSSCITECH
thetartan.org
@thetartan
August 25, 2014
Volume 109, Issue 2
Dining offers extended hours, healthier options
Screenshots via Carnegie Mellons Nutrition app
Dining Services introduced a new mobile app for iOS and Android that lets students track the nutrition of the food at every campus dining. 
RACHEL COHEN
Publisher
If youve ever wondered 
how much sugar is in that 
smoothie you just ordered or 
wished you could buy fresh 
produce right on campus, 
youre in luck this semester.
Carnegie Mellon Dining 
Services will offer extended 
hours, expanded menu options, furniture additions, new 
events, and other changes at 
numerous dining locations 
this semester.
According to Director of 
Dining Services Pascal Petter, 
the changes have been in the 
works since last September. 
While some alterations were 
vendor-driven, the vast majority of changes are the direct result of student feedback gathered online, in person, and at 
Student Senate and Graduate Student Assembly (GSA) 
meetings.
Highlights include a campus nutrition app, strict kosher dining options, weekly 
farmers markets in Resnik eatery, late-night hours at Carnegie Mellon Caf, and nowavailable breakfast blocks at 
Tazza DOro.
Extended Hours
According to Petter, previous semesters have seen a 
need for campus to have some 
more locations open.
Some locations will open 
earlier to provide options for 
earlier risers, while some will 
stay open later or open on the 
weekends to further accommodate student demand.
The Carnegie Mellon Caf 
is now open until 2 a.m. every 
day of the week, and starting at 8 a.m. on Saturday and 
Sunday.
After discussions between 
Dining Services and the vendor, the Exchange will be 8:30 
a.m.6 p.m. Monday through 
Friday.
The Exchange will also be 
open 9:30 a.m.2:30 p.m. 
on Saturday, when previously there were no weekend 
hours.
In the Marketplace on 
the second ?oor of the Jared 
L. Cohon University Center 
(CUC), Petter responded to 
student demand to see the 
more dinner-friendly eating 
options open later. 
The City Grill, Pasta Villagio, Evgefstos, and Spinning 
Salads will stay open until 8 
p.m. Monday through Friday, 
while the remaining locations 
will close at the original 4 
p.m. time.
The Underground is now 
open at 8:30 a.m. daily, including weekends, and stays 
open until midnight.
Expanded Menu Options
Petter also introduced a series of changes to expand students eating choices, accommodate dietary restrictions, 
and help vendors better adapt 
their dining options to student 
meal plans.
In the CUC Marketplace, 
Dining Services will introduce a new rice bowl concept, 
which will be among the locations open until 8 p.m. on 
weekdays.
Meanwhile, The Spice It 
Up Grill in Resnik will offer 
yakisoba noodles to appeal to 
the signi?cant proportion of 
the student body that comes 
to campus from Asia, Petter 
said.
Tazza DOro now offers 
breakfast blocks to accommodate students on meal plans. 
I think that will be very popular, Petter said.
Vegetarian station Evgestos will offer new ?atbread 
pizzas and superfood smoothies, which are both fruit- and 
vegetable-based. Finally, La 
Prima Espresso in Wean Hall 
will add new desserts, pastries, and chocolates to the 
menu.
Strict Kosher Options
Petter also collaborated 
with students from Hillel and 
the Jewish Community Center to accommodate orthodox 
Jewish students with strict 
dietary restrictions. The process underwent a pilot test in 
the spring and is launching 
now.
Dining Services had previously introduced kosher 
eatery The Pomegranate in 
the CUC, but even those food 
items are not prepared according to the strictest guidelines.
As an alternative for those 
students who keep a strict 
kosher diet, students can order their meals online using 
their meal blocks at https://
web.campusservices.cmu.
edu/dining/kosher/. Those 
meals will be prepared offsite at Murray Avenue Grill 
and transported to campus 
for pickup.
Green Food Waste Practices
In order to institute green 
practices in food waste management, Dining Services has 
partnered with a web-based 
food waste tracking system.
According to Petter, students will weigh their leftover 
food waste before disposing of 
it. 
The system will take 
pictures of food waste for 
CulinArt and Dining Services 
to analyze.
Through this analysis, Petter hopes to better understand 
what students arent eating 
and how to cut back on their 
food waste.
Nutrition Information
Dining Services has also 
introduced a nutrition app to 
grant students easy access to 
complete nutrition information. The website version is 
available at cmu.mynutritioncalculator.net.
The app provides the same 
comprehensive information 
as a nutrition label on a food 
item, including potential allergens.  According to Petter, the 
process is as simple as clicking on a meal period or a food 
group.
The app also features a 
CPDC opens rooms in CUC
BRADEN KELNER
Editor-in-Chief
This semester, students 
looking for a place to work 
with their peers will have a 
new private space in which 
to collaborate in the Jared 
L. Cohon University Center 
(CUC).
The Career and Professional Development Center 
(CPDC) announced that, 
with the relocation of its 
student advising operations 
to West Wing, it is opening 
30 rooms in its lower-level 
CUC space for employer 
recruitment interviews during the day and group work 
spaces at night.
The CPDCs CUC spaces 
will be used as group study 
or meeting rooms for students from 7 p.m. to 1:30 
a.m. every Sunday through 
Thursday.
Kevin Monahan, associate dean of students affairs 
for the CPDC, said the majority of the spaces rooms 
can hold at least four people, although some rooms 
may hold fewer. A conference room in the space will 
be able to accommodate 
more than 10 students, 
as well as feature a largescreen TV.
Monahan said the rooms 
can be used for anything 
from group projects to organizational or leadership 
meetings. Students will 
be able to book the rooms 
through 25Live, a room 
reservation website used by 
Carnegie Mellon. 
Usually, students and 
other campus members 
must wait for an approval 
email to con?rm that they 
have booked rooms in the 
CUC, such as the Dowd, 
McKenna, Peter, and Wright 
rooms, through the reservation system. However, students do not have to wait 
for con?rmation emails to 
book the CPDCs evening 
study spaces, according to 
Marcia Gerwig, director of 
the CUC. Students will be 
able to book the rooms as 
early as a week in advance 
and as late as 24 hours prior 
to needing the rooms, Gerwig said.
In addition to booking study rooms, students 
are able to secure rooms 
through drop-in visits by 
stopping at the location 
to check if there are unbooked rooms at the time 
they arrive. A student CUC 
employee will be on duty 
to assist drop-in students in 
?nding and unlocking unbooked rooms, according to 
Monahan.
To initially gauge how 
the space could serve student needs, Student Affairs 
discussed the evening uses 
of the rooms with executive members of Student 
Government, according 
to Monahan. It was determined that, while there 
were many individual and 
large group study spaces on 
campus, there was a need 
for small- to medium-sized 
group work spaces.
These are not individual study carrels, Monahan 
said, speaking of the spaces 
evening function. These 
are great interactive group 
meeting spaces that are 
very ?exible in their makeup and ... allow groups of 
See DINING, A3
See ROOMS, A3
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
News Editor
Carnegie Mellon recently 
appointed James Duesing, 
professor of art, to director of 
Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciencess Center for Arts and Society (CAS).
The CAS, a joint effort between Carnegie Mellons College of Fine Arts and Dietrich 
College, aims to explore and 
impact the workings of social 
power and in processes of social change, according to its 
website.
The CAS was founded in 
spring 2000 with the help of 
a grant from the Andrew W. 
Mellon Foundation and additional support from the 
university, the College of Fine 
Arts, and what is now Dietrich 
College.
Between its founding and 
2007, the CAS provided postdoctoral and senior residential fellowships, and also offered classes and established 
an undergraduate minor in 
arts in society.
In 2008, the CAS changed 
its focus toward supporting multi-year collaborative 
artistic and scholarly projects undertaken by Center 
members, according to its 
website.
James Duesing, who has 
been a Carnegie Mellon faculty member since 1997, 
comes into the position of 
the director of CAS after coorganizing, along with professor of English Kathy Newman, 
the CAS Media Initiative from 
201114.
The Media Initiative, according to a university press 
release, re?ected on media 
studies as a ?eld and considered new artistic and theoretical issues that have emerged 
in response to the rise of 
new and digitally networked 
media.
The Initiative consisted of a 
series of events, conferences, 
courses, and performances, 
and supported several major 
projects such as Occupy Facebook, which used art to examine the relationship between 
social media and nonviolent 
protest.
CAS is at an exciting 
place, Duesing said in the 
press release. The initiative 
format has been effective at 
challenging faculty to think 
in long-term interdisciplinary 
ways about their work and 
research. I especially value 
the ground up approach the 
center takes in developing the 
multifaceted aspects of faculty research to work in the 
university and with external 
communities. I look forward 
to the innovations the new 
Performance Initiative will reveal and hope everyone in the 
university will join in and be 
part of the thought-provoking 
events and dialogue.
Duesing is known for his 
work as an animator; he has 
worked in both traditional 
hand-drawn animation and 
digital animation. Since he 
began his Carnegie Mellon 
career in 1997, Duesing has 
taught courses for the College of Fine Arts on electronic 
time-based art and, from 
19992003, he served as codirector of Carnegie Mellons 
STUDIO for Creative Inquiry, 
an interdisciplinary research 
institution in the arts, science, 
technology, and culture.
In the press release, Dean 
of the College of Fine Arts Dan 
Martin and Dean of Dietrich 
College Richard Scheines said 
jointly, We are excited to see 
how James, with his considerable expertise and experience, 
will build on the achievements of Pauls directorship 
and lead CAS in its unique 
interdisciplinary approach to 
research and education.
CMU appoints James Duesing director of the CAS
Courtesy of James Duesing
James Duesing, a professor in the College of Fine Arts, was recently 
appointed as director of the Center for Arts in Society. 

---------------------------------------------------

Carnegie Mellons former 
dean of the School of Computer Science is working for 
the White House now.
Randal E. Bryant,  on sabbatical from the university as 
a professor of computer science, served as SCS dean for 
ten years before ending his 
term in the position on June 
30. Bryant is currently working in the White Houses Of?ce of Science and Technology Policy as assistant director 
for information technology 
research and development. 
Within the of?ces Technology and Innovation Division, 
Bryant analyzes and advises 
the government on Big Data, 
according to a Carnegie 
Mellon press release. Big 
Data can be de?ned as large 
data sets that are not easily 
parsed or interpreted.
Bryant, who expects to 
work in the of?ce for 1012 
months, is serving as an adviser to Thomas Kalil, deputy 
director of policy, to work 
on initiatives involving the 
application of large-scale information sources to enable 
more ef?cient and effective 
government operations, 
Bryant said in the release. 
He also said that he will focus on how the government 
can bring Big Data to society.
During his time at the 
White House, Bryant will focus on applying data-based 
processes to areas including 
education and health, and 
attend to privacy concerns 
surrounding Big Data collection, according to the release.
Bryant has been a Carnegie Mellon faculty member 
since 1984 and became dean 
of SCS in 2004, during which 
time he continued to teach.
SUNDAY
High / Low
78 / 59
A2  thetartan.org/news The Tartan  August 25, 2014
Corrections & Clari?cation
Last weeks issue of The Tartan promoted accessing 
academic building rooftops, the steam tunnels, and 
Wean Halls pi ?oor. These activities are illegal and are 
considered trespassing. 
NEWS IN BRIEFStudents explore during Craig Street Crawl
WEATHER
Suspicious Vehicle
Aug. 15, 2014
University Police were 
summoned to the Mellon Institute of Industrial Research 
on Saturday after reports of 
a suspicious vehicle. When 
of?cers arrived, they found 
a pickup truck full of scrap 
metal. After a traf?c stop, the 
of?cers found that the truck 
was violating multiple sections of the vehicle code and 
was towed from the scene. 
The driver, who is not af?liated with Carnegie Mellon, was 
issued three citations for various vehicle code violations.
Driving Under the 
In?uence
Aug. 17, 2014
University Police, along 
with Pittsburgh Police, responded to S. Belle?eld Avenue to ?nd a male sleeping in 
a vehicle. After further investigation, Pittsburgh Police identi?ed the male as a Carnegie 
Mellon student and placed 
him under arrest for driving 
under the in?uence.
Underage Drinking
Aug. 19, 2014
A Carnegie Mellon security 
of?cer reported an intoxicated 
female outside of the Software Engineering Institute, 
whom Carnegie Mellon police 
identi?ed as a University of 
Pittsburgh student. The female student was escorted to 
the hospital for treatment and 
cited for underage drinking.
Underage Drinking and 
Noise Complaint
Aug. 19, 2014
University Police responded to Stever House after noise 
complaints about a loud party. 
Five students on the fourth 
?oor were issued citations 
for underage drinking after 
being found in possession of 
alcohol.
Underage Drinking 
Aug. 20, 2014
Three Carnegie Mellon 
students were cited for underage drinking after University 
Police responded to the ?rst 
?oor of Morewood Gardens 
at the request of a resident assistant. Upon arrival, of?cers 
disposed of multiple bottles of 
alcohol.
Campus Crime & Incident Reports
Chloe Chia/Junior Photographer
Students went to a Craig Street Crawl block party Saturday to enjoy food samples, dancing, live music, balloon artists, and caricaturists.
Source: www.weather.com
FEATURE PHOTO
Carnegie Mellon alumna 
Chikako Suzuki (CFA 04) 
won an Emmy Award as art 
director for Showtimes House 
of Lies. Suzuki was awarded 
Outstanding Art Direction 
for a Contemporary Program 
(Half-Hour Or Less), her ?rst 
Emmy, at the 2014 Creative 
Arts Emmys Show show on 
Aug, 16., along with Ray Yamagata, the shows production designer, and Tim Stepeck, the shows set director. 
Suzuki received her masters 
degree in scenic design from 
the School of Drama.
Of the 13 Carnegie Mellon 
alumni who were nominated 
for the 2014 Emmy Awards, 
11 of them were nominated 
for the creative arts show and 
two will be in the 66th Annual Primetime Emmy Awards 
ceremony, according to a 
Carnegie Mellon news brief. 
Matt Bomer (CFA 00) was 
nominated for the primetime 
awards show for Outstanding 
Supporting Actor in a Miniseries or a Movie for his work 
in the HBO ?lm The Normal 
Heart while Jeffrey Klarik 
(CFA 69) was nominated for 
Outstanding Writing for a 
Comedy Series for the Showtime sitcom, Episodes, which 
was renewed for a fourth season. 
The primetime awards 
show will be aired tonight on 
NBC at 8 p.m.
Suzuki is also art director 
for HBOs The Newsroom, according to her LinkedIn pro?le, and is working on Scandal, which will air its fourth 
season on Sept. 25 on ABC.
In April, Carnegie Mellon 
said it was named the ?rst 
exclusive higher education 
partner for the Tony Awards, 
which recognizes achievements in Broadway theatre. 
The Hollywood Reporter 
magazine ranked Carnegie 
Mellons School of Drama at 
number four on a list of top 
25 drama schools worldwide 
in its June 7, 2013 issue.
Alumna wins ?rst creative Emmy
Randal Bryant works for White House
FRIDAY
High / Low
84 / 64
SATURDAY
High / Low
80 / 63
TUESDAY
High / Low
88 / 63
WEDNESDAY
High / Low
89 / 65
THURSDAY
High / Low
87 / 66
Compiled by
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
Compiled by
BRADEN KELNER
Statistically Speaking
Last week, American aid workers Kent 
Brantly and Nancy Writebol were released 
from the Emory University Hospital after 
being the ?rst Americans treated for the 
Ebola virus. Brantly and Writebol caught the 
virus in Liberia about a month ago, and have 
been declared not contagious, not carriers, 
and not in danger of relapse. Brantly and 
Writebols cases are part of an outbreak that 
began in March and includes thousands of 
cases across Guinea, Liberia, Nigeria, and 
Sierra Leone.
1976
the year that the Ebola virus was discovered
2,400+
the number of recorded cases of Ebola in 
this outbreak
1,300+
the number of recorded deaths from Ebola in this outbreak
50-90%
the death rate of people exposed in the average Ebola outbreak
Sources: nytimes.com, who.int

---------------------------------------------------

students to get together to 
tackle team projects.... It will 
allow students hopefully more 
?exible space to explore their 
academics.
Student Affairs and Student Government have continued conversations to determine various details of the 
rooms, such as how students 
will most likely use the rooms 
and what amenities they may 
need, according to Elizabeth 
Vaughan, director of student 
activities.
We want to be able to create more spaces where the intended usage is not as narrowly de?ned as some other spaces 
on campus are, Vaughan said. 
These spaces arent for one 
speci?c purpose, but rather 
will hopefully meet a wide variety of needs including study 
space for small groups, meeting locations for student organizations, collaborative project workspace, and gathering 
spaces for groups. We wanted 
there to be consistency in timing and [the] reservation process as well as availability for 
long periods of time on prime 
study nights.
During regular business 
hours, from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., 
the CPDC will use the rooms 
to facilitate employer relations and house recruitment 
activities, according to Monahan. Monahan said the CPDC 
rooms will allow employers 
to meet with students in an 
open house format, and 
with CPDC staff, as well as 
allow students to practice interviewing. The rooms can be 
used for phone and Skype interviews, as well.
Additionally, recruiters will 
be able to conduct interviews 
throughout the on-campus 
recruiting season, which typically begins in September and 
runs through November. During this time, recruiters not 
associated with a particular 
career fair conduct interviews 
on campus. Monahan said the 
rooms will allow the CPDC to 
conduct a greater number of 
interviews in conjunction with 
the universitys career fairs, 
such as the Business, Technical, Employment, and Creative 
Arts Opportunities Conferences. 
Monahan said the CPDC is 
also exploring more ways to 
maximize the use of the CUClower level space.
Vaughan said that, with 
the inception of the interview 
rooms, it was important to 
Student Affairs to maximize 
the opportunities possible for 
students and to create multifunctional rooms in light of 
the universitys limited space 
within a bustling city.
The CPDC moved to its new 
main location on the second 
?oor of West Wing on Aug. 15. 
To make the move possible, 
the university replaced student housing on the ?oor with 
CPDC consulting spaces and 
of?ces. This semester, the university is opening a new housing facility on Clyde Street, off 
of Fifth Avenue, which houses 
31 students, including a resident assistant, according to 
?oor plans of the facility on 
the Of?ce of the Deans website. 
The new center occupies 
about three-quarters of West 
Wings second ?oor, while 
the remaining quarter now 
houses athletics of?ces, according to Monahan, who 
said that the CPDC moved 
16 staff of?ces to West Wing, 
while keeping ?ve of?ces in 
the CUCs lower level for staff 
coordinating employer recruitment opportunities.
Editors Note: Elizabeth 
Vaughan is The Tartans 
advisor.
August 25, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/news  A3
CUC, CPDC allocate rooms for career development, group study
Braden Kelner/Editor-in-Chief
The Career and Professional Development Center, although it moved its advising center to the second ?oor of West Wing, has group study and interview rooms in the basement of the CUC.
ROOMS, from A1
search tool that allows students to navigate campus dining options according to their 
dietary restrictions or preferences. Students looking for 
low-sodium meals or avoiding 
certain allergens can evaluate 
their options via the app.
Events
Another new dining option will be monthly bistro nights at Schatz Dining 
Room, which will offer fullservice table linens and give 
students a taste of a ?ne dining experience. Petter also 
worked to bring the highly 
popular farmers markets to 
campus more frequently. 
While previous farmers 
markets were held in the CUC 
lobby on a monthly basis, they 
will now occur weekly in the 
Worlds of Flavor section of the 
Resnik eatery.
Furniture Additions
Dining Services has also 
introduced all new furniture 
in the Carnegie Mellon Caf 
and the Cruciform and Doha 
rooms in the Resnik eatery.
The renovations are designed to facilitate student 
learning and collaboration, 
according to Petter. 
The larger seating options 
will allow students to study 
or work in groups while they 
eat.
Reception and Future 
Changes
Petter presented a summary of the changes to a group of 
resident assistants and orientation counselors on Aug. 15 
and received instantaneous 
student feedback.
It was well received, Petter said. I wouldnt say standing ovation, but there was a 
lot of cheering and a lot of 
clapping.
While this semesters 
changes are numerous, Petter said, It doesnt mean that 
more changes are not coming.
Petter and other dining 
services staff members will be 
tabling in the CUC lobby today, tomorrow, and Wednesday to answer questions and 
receive feedback about the 
modi?cations. 
Petter will also continue 
holding meetings with Student Senate and the GSA, 
where much of the initial feedback originated, and hearing 
from students at monthly Dining Services Advisory Council 
sessions.
A big part of my role is to 
continuously look for ways to 
improve and evolve our dining 
program, Petter said. I anticipate more changes to come.
Dining makes changes based on input 
Screenshots via Carnegie Mellons Nutrition app
Dining Services new mobile app lets students see nutrition facts for any 
menu item on the ?y. 
C-MITES discontinued
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
News Editor
The university announced 
at the end of the summer that 
the 2014 session of the Carnegie Mellon Institute for Talented Elementary and Secondary 
Students (C-MITES) program 
will be its last.
A letter on the C-MITES 
home page announced, As 
the 2014 summer workshop 
session ends, we are writing to 
inform you that the Carnegie 
Mellon Institute for Talented 
Elementary and Secondary 
Students (C-MITES) program 
at Carnegie Mellon University 
will not be continuing after 
July 31, 2014.
C-MITES, which had just 
?nished its 22nd year, offered 
summer programs for gifted 
elementary and middle school 
students across Pennsylvania. 
The program was founded 
in 1992 by Ann LupkowskiShoplik, who also served as its 
director.
The letter on the C-MITES 
website continues to say that 
C-MITES offered challenging weekend and summer 
programs in mathematics, 
sciences and the humanities 
for thousands of academically 
talented students as well as 
professional development activities for educators.
C-MITES, an article in the 
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette said, 
cost between $255 and $500 
for a one- to two-week halfday program, with limited ?-
nancial aid available.
In the article Alex Gray, 
western region coordinator 
of the Pennsylvania Association for Gifted Education, said 
that C-MITES was a staple 
among local opportunities for 
academically gifted youth.
C-MITES also administered the EXPLORE test, a 
standardized exam used to 
measure college readiness 
that students typically take 
around 8th or 9th grade. The 
EXPLORE test is designed to 
prepare students for PLAN, 
typically taken in 10th grade, 
and the ACT, typically taken in 
11th or 12th grade.
The ACT announced at 
the beginning of the summer, however, that they will 
no longer offer the EXPLORE 
test, and will support ACT 
Explore testing after June 
13, 2014 only where preexisting contractual obligations necessitate.
The ACT is replacing EXPLORE and PLAN with the 
ACT Aspire test, which assesses students in grade 3 
through early high school for 
college and career readiness.
According to Carnegie 
Mellons press release on the 
subject, C-MITES was discontinued because of declining testing and program 
enrollments and an increase 
in similar program offerings 
through traditional and digital 
formats.
A university representative 
declined to comment outside 
of the released statements.
Although C-MITES is no 
longer offered, the press release notes that the university still offers more than 
75 challenging programs for 
K-12 students and teachers 
each year, including Architecture Explorations, the 
Tech Nights program in the 
School of Computer Science, 
the Pennsylvania Governors 
School for the Sciences and 
a Chemistry Carnival in late 
September.
Carnegie Mellon offers 
many programs for gifted 
youth through the Leonard Gelfand Center for Service Learning and Outreach, 
which, according to its website, work[s] with faculty, 
students and staff through 
on-campus and communitybased activities that improve 
educational opportunities, 
especially in the areas of science, technology, engineering 
and mathematics education 
for youth.
DINING, from A1
Screenshots via Carnegie Mellons Nutrition app
Students can use the app to see menus and nutrition facts at every 
campus dining location.  

---------------------------------------------------

A4  thetartan.org/scitech The Tartan  August 25, 2014
Wyvern program allows use of multiple languages at once
NIVEDITA CHOPRA
Assistant Copy Manager
If youve ever programmed 
in more than one programming language, chances are 
that youve sometimes wished 
you could use multiple languages in the same program, 
because whats easy to do in 
one language might be hard 
or impossible to do in another. 
A team of researchers, led by 
Jonathan Aldrich, associate 
professor in the Institute for 
Software Research, has been 
working on solving just this 
problem.
The group is developing a 
new programming language 
called Wyvern that makes 
it much easier to write web 
applications. 
Wyvern allows programmers to use HTML, the language in which web pages are 
written; JavaScript, which 
makes web pages dynamic; 
SQL, in which database queries are performed; and many 
other languages together in 
the same program.
Previous attempts to use 
multiple languages together 
have involved writing the code 
in one language and passing 
in snippets of code written in 
other languages as strings, 
which are data in the form of 
a sequence of characters. This 
practice is tedious as well as 
prone to many security ?aws, 
which can make the program 
vulnerable to malicious attacks like cross-site scripting 
and SQL injection  the two 
most common types of attacks 
used by website hackers today.
Wyvern prevents these attacks by treating pieces of 
code written in different languages as new types of data, 
rather than strings. It is based 
on the idea of a type-speci?c 
language (TSL), which ensures that code is valid for the 
language that it is written in. 
Using this concept of TSLs, 
programmers can integrate 
code snippets from different 
languages in a clear and concise manner, making the resultant program much easier 
for other programmers to read 
and comprehend.
Wyvern is like a skilled 
international negotiator who 
can smoothly switch between 
languages to get a whole team 
of people to work together. 
Such a person can be extremely effective and, likewise, I 
think our new approach can 
have a big impact on building 
software systems, Aldrich 
said, in a Carnegie Mellon 
press release.
Using multiple languages 
in the same program has 
opened up many avenues. 
Cyrus Omar, a Ph.D. student 
in the School of Computer Science and the lead designer of 
Wyverns TSL approach, said 
via email that he feels that this 
new concept of specialized 
syntax will be useful in scienti?c programming.
Each scienti?c area tends 
to come up with its own specialized forms (e.g. bra-ket 
notation in quantum physics) and allowing them to use 
them directly makes the gap 
between what they write up 
on whiteboards and what they 
put down into the computer 
narrower, improving productivity, Omar said.
Another area where this 
idea is expected to make a 
great impact is in the ?eld of 
end-user programming. End 
users is a term used in the literature to describe the kinds 
of folks who might not even 
think they do any programming, but they use tools like 
spreadsheets or Wordpress 
templates, Omar explained. 
Making things easier for 
them syntactically by capturing common idioms, while 
retaining the nice semantics 
of a language like Wyvern underneath, would help bridge 
the gap between professional 
programmers and end user 
programmers, which I think 
would be good for everyone 
involved.
When asked whether he 
feels that Wyvern is something that may be widely used 
in industry, Omar replied, 
The hope with projects like 
these is that our ideas, rather 
than the artifact itself, will 
have an impact on future language designs originating in 
industry. He added, however, 
that Wyvern is being actively 
developed on GitHub, largely 
through the efforts of Benjamin Chung, a senior computer 
science major.
Programmers who are excited about Wyvern can start 
using it as well, contributing 
to the design of the language. 
New languages gain adoption 
when people who are starting brand new projects, often 
side projects, make a decision 
to try something new, Omar 
said.Courtesy of Zigeuner
Photo-editing system manipulates objects three-dimensionally
BROOKE KUEI
SciTech Editor
Its effortless for us to pick 
up an object and manipulate 
it in 3-D in real life, but what 
if we could twist and turn objects in a photograph just as 
easily? 
Yaser Sheikh, associate 
research professor of robotics, and Natasha Kholgade, a 
graduate student in the Robotics Institute, have created 
a photo editing system that 
allows users to move objects 
three-dimensionally, turning 
or ?ipping them in ways that 
reveal parts of the object that 
were not even in the original 
photograph. Other members 
of the group include Tomas 
Simon, a Ph.D. student in the 
Robotics Institute, and Alexei 
Efros, a former Carnegie Mellon faculty member.
We started the project 
about three years ago, when 
we realized that while interacting with photographs in editing software, there were several 3-D manipulations that 
we intuitively felt like doing  
that were simply not possible 
in photo-editing software, 
Kholgade said. While users 
can scale, rotate, and move objects in current photo-editing 
software, Kholgades new system allows users to ?ip and rotate objects in all different directions, knock them over, or 
pick them up and place them 
somewhere else in the photograph  all while maintaining 
the photographs realism.
But how is it possible to 
turn an object to a side that 
wasnt even present in the 
original photograph? The 
teams system takes advantage 
of the 3-D models of common 
objects that are readily available online. Today, there are 
large collections of 3-D models available on public repositories such as 3D Warehouse 
and TurboSquid, Kholgade 
said.
While this method may 
not be able to cover all the 
bases right now, the inevitable 
growth of these online databases will soon solve this problem. We can expect these repositories to keep growing at 
an exponential rate, since 3-D 
printing and scanning technologies are becoming more 
and more ubiquitous, and several items such as furniture, 
vehicles, toys, and household 
equipment are becoming standardized, Kholgade added. 
In the current version of the 
system, the user ?nds the corresponding 3-D model needed 
for an object in a photograph 
by using a word search.
Despite the wide availability of 3-D models online, 
however, there are always 
inherent differences between 
online models of objects and 
the actual object in a given 
photo. Kholgade explained 
that the main differences between online models and an 
actual object in a photograph 
are their colors, textures, and 
shape. For instance, you will 
never ?nd that discolored banana in your fruit basket, or 
your speci?c dusty, worn out 
hat in the 3-D model repository, Kholgade said. To account 
for this, the system provides a 
user-guided approach to align 
the shape of the 3-D model to 
the object in the photograph. 
It then factors out scene lighting in the photograph and 
completes the appearance of 
a surface that was not in the 
original photograph by drawing symmetries over an object.
In addition to just turning 
or ?ipping an object in 3-D, 
this system uses the same algorithms to create realistic 
animation. Our system is tied 
to standard animation and 
modeling software, through 
which the user can create an 
animation for an object. Our 
system then deforms the object in accordance with the 
animation, while providing 
plausible shading and shadows, and remaining faithful 
to the original photograph, 
Kholgade said. The system is 
also compatible with paintings 
and historical photos, as long 
as they are converted into an 
electronic format.
Besides just being a gamechanger for photo-editing 
software, the teams system 
has real-world applications 
in furniture rearrangement 
while putting personal homes 
on the market, three-dimensional viewing of merchandise 
in online shopping catalogs, 
or even in connecting physical simulations of events or 
anatomical processes to photographs for forensics or medicinal purposes.
In the future, the team 
hopes to automate the search 
and retrieval of online 3-D 
models, as well as the alignment of 3-D models to actual 
objects in photographs. This 
system has ?ipped the world 
of photo-editing 180 degrees.
Courtesy of Yaser Sheikh
Left: Original photograph of a laptop. Right: Final photograph after object manipulation was done in the photo-editing system.
Courtesy of Yaser Sheikh
Left: The original photograph of an origami crane turned sideways. Midde: The corrected wireframe geometry of the crane. Right: The edited image of a front-facing crane after object rotation in the photo-editing system.
Courtesy of Yaser Sheikh
Yaser Sheikh, associate research professor of robotics.
Courtesy of Natasha Kholgade
Natasha Kholgade, robotics Ph.D. student and lead author of the study.

---------------------------------------------------

August 25, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/scitech  A5
RAGHUNANDAN AVULA
Staffwriter
Like everything in our universe, humans are fundamentally a collection of molecules 
interacting with each other. 
Unlike anything else in our 
universe, however, humans 
share a unique ability to fully 
experience the world around 
them, largely because of our 
neurological complexity.
Beyond our individual experiences, we also have the 
capacity to understand the experiences of those around us, 
an ability commonly known as 
empathy.
Imagine that one day your 
friend forgets to bring a jacket, 
and that its unexpectedly cold 
outside. Seeing their shivering can invoke an emotion of 
empathy in which you feel bad 
for them. However, this reaction can be largely in?uenced 
by many factors. 
For example, if you brought 
a large jacket and are feeling comfortable, you may not 
empathize with your friend 
as much as someone who 
brought a small jacket and is 
also feeling cold.
Scientists are continuously trying to understand 
the complexity of neurological 
functions. The past few years 
have seen some remarkable 
advancements in our understanding of empathy and the 
areas of the brain that are 
involved.
To do so, scientists conduct experiments that mimic 
real-world situations that we 
face everyday that can invoke 
emotions and feelings. They 
then observe the effect of the 
emotion on an individual and, 
in this case, on the individuals 
around them.
A recent study published in 
The Journal of Neuroscience in 
October 2013 by researchers 
at the Max Planck Institute for 
Human Cognitive and Brain 
Sciences identi?ed that the 
right supramarginal gyrus is 
involved in ones ability for 
empathy. They explained that 
this region of the brain is responsible for distinguishing 
our emotional state from others and producing empathy.
Without a properly functioning supramarginal gyrus, it can become extremely 
dif?cult to put oneself into 
somebody elses shoes. To test 
this, researchers conducted 
an experiment in which they 
showed one participant a picture of something gross and 
had them touch something 
slimy while another participant was shown a picture of 
something cute and touched 
something furry. Distorted by 
their own comforting emotion, the second participant 
assessed their partners negative experience less severely.
Another important aspect 
of learning about neurological functions is understanding psychopathy, a personality 
disorder that is characterized 
by a lack of empathy. A recent 
study published by researchers at the University of Chicago explored the areas of the 
brain that are more active in 
psychopaths.
They concluded that, based 
on the activated regions, psychopaths are sensitive to the 
thought of pain but cannot feel 
others pain. Instead, when 
imagining others in pain, they 
show an increased activity in 
their ventral striatum, which 
is known to be involved in 
pleasure.
By understanding the neurological basis for empathy, 
better interventions can be 
constructed to treat patients 
who suffer from psychopathy. Studies have shown that 
almost a quarter of prison 
populations are psychopathic, 
compared to only one percent 
of the general population. 
Improved treatments and understanding could help bring 
down crime and violence.
Our understanding of 
the brain and its functions 
are very primitive, but much 
has been learned about the 
unique complexity that allows 
our brain to experience our 
own lives as well as the lives of 
those around us.
HOW THINGS WORKNeuroscience studies explain why humans experience empathy
New ant species supports species formation theory
A new species of ant has 
been discovered in a single 
patch of eucalyptus trees at 
Brazils So Paulo State University by Christian Rabeling, 
assistant professor of biology 
at the University of Rochester, and his research team. 
Despite having branched off 
from an already existing species, the new one was found 
living in the same colony as 
the original species, an uncommon occurrence in todays 
model of species formation. 
While most new species are 
the result of geographic isolation, the discovery of this new 
species of ant suggests that a 
controversial theory known as 
sympatric speciation  where 
a new species forms while still 
living in the same geographic 
area as its parent species  
may be true. These ?ndings 
were recently published in 
the journal Current Biology. 
 
Source: Science Daily
Apple iPhone 6 launch could be facing delays
Apple iPhone 6 suppliers 
are rushing to produce enough 
screens to make next months 
expected launch after a recent disruption in panel production caused by a redesign 
of the screen. Apple initially 
wanted to use a single layer 
of backlight ?lm  instead 
of the conventional two layers  for the 4.7-inch screen, 
which went into mass production before the 5.5 inch 
version in order to make the 
new phone as thin as possible. 
However, this design turned 
out to not be bright enough, 
and the displays had to be 
recon?gured, causing screen 
assembly to be put on hold 
for part of June and July. Suppliers say that production has 
resumed; Apple has not stated 
whether this setback will affect the expected launch next 
month or limit the number 
of phones initially released. 
 
Source: Reuters
Researchers map extinction of Neanderthals
A six-year project by researchers at the University of 
Oxford has recently resulted 
in the most accurate timeline 
of Neanderthal extinction 
published to date. 
Their ?ndings revealed 
that Neanderthals and present-day humans actually lived 
at the same time in Europe 
for between 2,600 and 5,400 
years, which is longer than 
previously thought, before 
their extinction approximately 
40,000 years ago. Creating 
an accurate timeline of their 
extinction was dif?cult in the 
past because 30,000-year-old 
samples often become contaminated, making radiocarbon dating very unreliable. 
The team at the University of 
Oxford was able to remove 
this contamination and dated 
almost 200 samples of Neanderthal bone, charcoal, and 
shell.
 
Source: Reuters
Brains with autism unable to prune synapses growth
A major part of brain development in babies is an explosion in the growth of synapses, 
the connections that allow 
neurons to communicate with 
each other. However, as a 
child grows older, the brain 
begins to regulate the synapses so their population in 
different areas of the brain 
is limited, allowing different 
parts of the brain to be specialized for different functions. 
A recent study led by David 
Sulzer, a neurobiologist at the 
Columbia University Medical 
Center, suggests that this process undergoes problems in 
children with autism, causing 
an overpopulation of synapses 
in certain parts of the brain. 
The study used tissue from the 
brains of children and adolescents who died between the 
ages of two and 20, half of 
who had autism and half who 
did not.
Source: The New York Times
Laser light ?ips magnetization of various materials
Physicist Eric Fullerton and 
his team at the University of 
California, San Diego have 
recently published a paper in 
Science on the possibility of 
using lasers to make data storage in computers faster and 
simpler. 
While computer hard 
drives traditionally read and 
write data by ?ipping the magnetization of memory cells 
with magnetic ?elds, Dutch 
and Japanese researchers 
discovered in 2007 that they 
could ?ip the magnetization of 
certain materials using a laser 
light instead (the polarization 
of the light determines the 
direction of magnetization). 
Fullertons team has now investigated this mechanism on 
a larger range of magnetic materials and found that a certain 
?lm containing iron and platinum works well with lasers as 
a hard drive material.
 
Source: ScienceNews
Two American Ebola patients recently released
The Ebola virus has a fatality rate of 60 to 90 percent in 
hospitals in Africa. Fortunately, two American aid workers, 
Kent Brantly and Nancy Writebol, who have been receiving 
treatment for Ebola at Emory 
University Hospital since early 
August, were recently released 
after multiple clean blood 
tests. 
Bruce Ribner, who led the 
team which cared for the two 
patients, stated that they are 
not contagious and are now 
immune to the Zaire strain of 
the Ebola virus. Additionaly, 
they will not relapse and are 
not carriers for Ebola. Brantly 
and Writebol, who caught the 
Ebola virus in Liberia about 
a month ago, are the ?rst patients that have been treated 
for Ebola in America.
 
Source: Wired
Compiled By
BROOKE KUEI
SCITECH BRIEFS
Join
Now that youve arrived...
For more than 100 years, The Tartan has served as a news source and 
discussion forum for all Carnegie Mellon students, from incoming 
?rst-years to graduating Ph.D. candidates. Were glad youre enjoying 
this issue, but wed love for you to help us make the next one.
NEWS WRITERS  COLUMNISTS  PHOTOGRAPHERS  
COPY EDITORS  CONCERT REVIEWERS  DESIGNERS
CARTOONISTS  SPORTS WRITERS  BUSINESS STAFF
ARTISTS  ADVERTISING STAFF  SCIENCE WRITERS
!
Eunice Oh/Staff Artist
Empathy is actually hardwired into human brains. The part of the brain which corresponds to empathy is the supramarginal gyrus. 

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan is a student newspaper at Carnegie Mellon University, funded in part by the student 
activities fee. It is a weekly publication by students during the fall and spring semesters, printed by 
Trib Total Media. The Tartan is not an official publication of Carnegie Mellon University.
The Editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The 
Tartan Editorial Board. Columns, Editorial Cartoons, and Reviews are the opinions of their 
individual creators. The Tartan Editorial Staff reserves the right to withhold from publication 
any copy it deems unfit.
Letters to the Editor are the opinions of their authors. Letters from within the University community take precedence. Letters intended for publication must be signed and include the authors 
address and telephone number for verification; letters must not exceed 350 words. Authors names 
may be withheld from publication upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject 
any letter. Letters must be submitted by 5 p.m. on the Wednesday before publication by mail or to 
forum@thetartan.org.
FROM THE EDITORIAL BOARD
A6  thetartan.org/forum The Tartan  August 25, 2014
Office: University Center 314
Web: www.thetartan.org
E-mail: contact@thetartan.org
Mail:
The Tartan
Box 119, UC Suite 103 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Carnival 101 announcement timely, respectable
Due to delays in construction of 
the Tepper Quadrangle, the 101st 
Spring Carnival will remain in the 
Morewood parking lot, Spring Carnival Committee said in June via their 
website. The committees announcement was clearly communicated 
almost a full academic year before 
Carnival, a move that shows considerable and transparent thought for 
students.
Last year, the committee maintained a Spring Carnival 100 website 
to release information. Announcements on the website for the 100th 
year informed students about the 
possible relocation for the following 
Carnival.
The site discussed potential locations for hosting Carnivals main 
events, such as Booth and rides, after 
the start of the Tepper Quadrangles 
construction.
Tasked with running an event 
that elicits signi?cant student interest and anticipation, the committee 
has been consistent in providing students with as much information as it 
can, even when unsure of ?nal outcomes during deliberations. 
The committee, in tandem with 
university faculty heading the event, 
has been candid about this uncertainty and hosted a town hall about 
the relocation to collect campus 
members input.
Arguably the largest campuswide event, Spring Carnival connects a variety of individuals and 
organizations that need to collaboratively plan months in advance.
 Having an organization at the 
forefront that is communicative with 
the other involved organizations, 
and with the student population, is 
appreciated and a necessity.
As the committee continues outreach, The Tartan hopes it will continue to use its various channels of 
communication, like its website and  
public meetings, to gather student 
input and release the latest information pertaining to Spring Carnival. 
Spring Carnival is meant to provide students with a few days of 
relaxation, and the committee has  
shown that it strives to serve those 
students by effectively reducing the 
guess work and anxiety about the future of this campus tradition.
President Suresh must remain student advocate
At the beginning of this 201415 
academic year, The Tartan looks 
back at President Sureshs inaugural 
year and looks ahead at the impact 
we expect our new president will 
have during the rest of his tenure.
Last year, President Suresh made 
a conspicuous effort to connect with 
the student body and re?ect students concerns, and we hope to see 
the follow-up changes that will help 
con?rm Sureshs position as an advocate of the student body.
Below are two important issues 
that we hope Suresh continues to address during his term. 
The University Health Services 
day-long event Exploring Health, 
Discovering Wellness, along with 
the creation of the Mindfulness 
Room, was intended to address discussions of stress culture that have 
been ongoing since December 2012.
While the initiative drew attention across campus and showed an 
administrative response to student 
concerns, the universitys approach 
seems a temporary ?x when one considers the root of students concerns, 
which is largely academic in nature. 
The existing changes are welcome 
gestures, but will they solve the institutionalized problem of students 
enduring strings of sleepless nights 
to turn in assignments and ?nish 
projects, or taking on overwhelming 
course loads?
Second among this administrations efforts, the SIMON Initiative 
promises to pursue educational innovation by globally sharing data. 
Upon close inspection, the model 
is a fascinating and promising one, 
but its details must be more clearly communicated to the campus 
community.
President Sureshs inaugural 
year was characterized by gestures 
of goodwill. We expected our new 
presidents ?rst year to be ?lled with 
pomp and circumstance, but The 
Tartan now hopes President Suresh 
will continue to work actively behind the scenes to ensure the student 
body is healthy and well informed. 
The Tartan commends Suresh for 
establishing himself as a community 
listener and forming an open dialogue with students, but we expect 
that the coming year will prompt a 
serious consideration of what concrete steps canmove our community 
forward.
Obama will be known for ushering in Lost Decade
KYLE HENSON
Staffwriter
In the midst of multiple foreign 
policy crises and racially motivated 
shootings, its dif?cult to take a step 
back and look at the larger picture 
of President Obamas stewardship 
of the country. However, six years 
into his presidency, its time to start 
examining the legacy our president 
will leave behind.
As many of us remember, when 
President Obama was ushered into 
of?ce on a tide of hope, change, 
and most importantly, bipartisan 
support, it seemed like our country 
had turned a corner and another 
Era of Good Feelings was upon us. 
Wed ?nally found a charismatic 
leader who represented the antidote to everything wed hated about 
his predecessor and offered us the 
post-partisan, post-racial future that 
Americans yearned for. President 
Obama promised to restore foreign 
policy sanity, safeguard individual 
freedoms, reform health care and 
immigration, and make the economy a fair place to earn a living after 
the recession.
Six years from then, its apparent that none of that happened. The 
Middle East is a mess, were still not 
sure if the Affordable Care Act has 
helped more people than its hurt, 
and 25 percent of college graduates 
are unemployed with a further 25 
percent underemployed, many with 
crushing student debt. Perhaps most 
alarming, however, is that partisanship is at an all-time high, congressional approval at an all-time low, 
and a plurality of Americans now believe that race relations have worsened under Obama.
By nearly any measure, the country is in worse shape than when President Obama took of?ce in January 
2009. Worst of all, even Democrats 
in Congress call Obama disengaged 
and uninterested in governing. Its 
gone so far that The New York Times 
pubished an article defending the 
presidents gol?ng habits in times of 
crisis last Friday. With Republicans 
favored to win control of the Senate, 
the president isnt likely to regain his 
interest in governance, which is just 
about to get harder for him.
With this in mind, lets examine 
the question of Obamas legacy. A 
lot of his foreign policy legacy will 
be determined by how the current 
situation in Iraq resolves itself, so 
lets focus on domestic policy. President Obamas two primary domestic 
achievements were the American 
Recovery and Reinvestment Act 
(The Stimulus) and the Affordable 
Care Act (Obamacare).
With the lowest percentage of 
Americans working full time since 
the Depression, college looking like 
an increasingly bad investment, and 
companies relocating overseas to 
avoid our oppressive corporate tax 
structure, the economy is doing very 
poorly. Median household income 
is still lower than it was before the 
Recession, and income inequality is 
worsening at an increasingly rapid 
pace. Perhaps the Stimulus mitigated the effects of the Recession, 
but seven years after the start of 
the worst economic crisis since the 
Great Depression, and six years into 
the weakest postwar economic recovery in United States history, the 
presidents economic stewardship 
can only be credited with mediocrity 
at best, and abject failure at worst.
The troubled legacy of the Affordable Care Act, from the failed 
rollout to the Hobby Lobby Case, 
isnt worth rehashing, but its important to note that throughout its entire life, the act has always had more 
Americans opposed to it than in favor of it. Millions of Americans have 
lost their insurance, and millions 
more will continue to lose their insurance as corporate mandates kick 
in over the next few years. Health 
insurance rates have continued to 
rise much more quickly than in?ation and many are ?nding that the 
new networks they have been given 
access to by their exchange-based 
insurance plans are severely limited 
to the point of inef?cacy. In addition 
to this, even by the most generous 
estimates, the United States will still 
have at least 30 million uninsured 
when its fully rolled out, according 
to the Congressional Budget Of?ce.
None of this is likely to matter 
soon, because two pending court 
cases threaten to cripple or at least 
derail the entire act. Speaker John 
Boehners case against the president will likely overturn Obamas 
executive orders that keep the most 
potentially damaging parts of the 
act at bay until the 2014 midterms, 
reinforcing limits on executive powers. Finally, another lawsuit is making its way through the courts, one 
that could possibly stop the majority 
of states from being able to give subsidies to its citizens. If either of these 
lawsuits win, then the Affordable 
Care Act will be fatally undermined, 
and possibly thrown out altogether.
If this happens, then President 
Obama will have no major accomplishments to tout when building 
his legacy, and he will be remembered by his string of second-term 
scandals and incompetence, if not 
detachment, when dealing with 
domestic crises, such as the current 
ones at the border and in Ferguson. 
The president has yet to visit the 
sites of either issue.
This type of thing has happened 
in history before. Stagnant economic 
growth, domestic crises, and incompetent leadership are not unique to 
our country or our time. Japan experienced similar conditions in the 
1990s, and historians have remembered the period as The Lost Decade. When historians look back on 
President Obamas tenure as president, they wont remember the lofty 
rhetoric that got him elected, but 
instead, theyll remember the very 
real and very negative consequences 
of his policies, which very well may 
usher in our own Lost Decade.
Kyle Henson (kahenson@) is a staffwriter for The Tartan.
Courtesy of Boricuaeddie via Wikimedia Commons
Google is sponsoring research 
into massive open online courses (or 
MOOCs) here at Carnegie Mellon. 
While The Tartan recognizes the potential that this new style of teaching 
holds, MOOCs provide a learning experience of ambiguous quality, and 
should not replace real classroom 
learning.
MOOCs are increasingly popular 
on college campuses across the nation and have been for a few years 
now. In September 2013, Google 
partnered with edX  an online 
education nonpro?t jointly created 
by Harvard and the Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology  to design 
a website that will provide MOOC 
videos, according to Slate magazine. 
However, scant evidence exists that 
MOOCs are effective. According to 
Time magazine, current research 
into the subject  as limited as it is 
 suggests that online education offers inadequate success rates.
At ?rst glance, MOOCs seem like 
a good way to offer education to a 
greater number of students at a reduced price. Upon further consideration, however, more issues come 
to light. Almost 90 percent of people 
who sign up for MOOCs do not actually complete them, partially because the courses are free and dont 
count for credits in most universities, 
according to Time. Part of the problem is that many students do not feel 
compelled to complete the MOOCs 
because they dont receive college 
credit, and many universities will not 
offer credit for MOOCs until more 
comprehensive research on their effectiveness becomes available.
MOOCs simply do not offer the 
same level of engagement that a 
classroom learning experience does. 
Online classes are more akin to huge 
lecture classes, where a professor 
tries to teach 100 students or more. 
The professor cant possibly engage 
with all students, and most students 
will potentially have dif?culty forging connections with their teacher. 
Though some students may excel in 
such an environment, many students 
would have great dif?culty adapting.
Online education is a fast-developing ?eld, with plenty of potential 
for expansion. However, until more 
of that potential is realized, online 
education should not be considered 
the equal of, or a replacement for, 
classroom learning.
Editorial Staff
Editorial Board
RACHEL COHEN *
Publisher
BRADEN KELNER *
Editor-in-Chief
ARIEL HOFFMAIER
Forum Editor 
KATE GROSCHNER *
Contributing Editor
CHLOE THOMPSON
Staffwriter
BRENT HEARD *
Contributing Editor
LAURA SCHERB *
Operations Manager
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
News Editor
BROOKE KUEI
SciTech Editor
JOEY PEISER
Pillbox Editor
MARYYANN LANDLORD
Comics Editor
JONATHAN LEUNG
Photo Editor
MICHELLE WAN
Art Editor
MARTHA PATERSON
Online Editor
MAIRAD PETTIT
Personnel Manager
SWATHI ANAND
Layout Manager
WILL CRICHTON
Systems Manager
JOHN HUO
Advertising Manager
DESIREE XU
Business Manager
JAMES WU
Copy Manager
SARA REMI FIELDS
Asst. Photo Editor
JASON CHEN
Asst. Photo Editor
NIVEDITA CHOPRA
Asst. Copy Manager
EVAN KAHN
Asst. Copy Manager
ROBERT MARATOS
Asst. Systems Manager
ANNE-SOPHIE KIM
Asst. Layout Manager
BENJAMIN CHANG
Asst. Business Manager
ALVIN MATTHEWS
Asst. News Editor
ROHAN VARMA
Asst. SciTech Editor
XIYU WANG
Asst. Forum Editor
JENNA BODNAR
Asst. Pillbox Editor
EUNICE OH
Asst. Art Editor
SENIOR STAFF 
Carl Glazer, Greg Hanneman, Alan Vangpat
COPY
Lula Beresford-Banker, Francesca Begos, 
Amelia Britton, Gordon Estes, Katherine Huang, 
Stephanie Stern
LAYOUT
Udaya Malik, Yong Gun Choe
ADVERTISING
Alison Chiu, Anuva Kulkarni, Kyle Henson
 2014 The Tartan, all rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN: 0890-3107* Denotes executive committee member
Joanne Lo/Staff Artist
Online courses endanger learning on campus

---------------------------------------------------

A FIRST-YEARS OPINION
August 25, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/forum  A7
ARIEL HOFFMAIER
Forum Editor
Journalism is born on caring. 
Sure, narcissism and attention-seeking play their role, from the sensationalist headlines that regularly hit 
newsstands to our current epidemic 
of bait-and-click pseudo-news sources. Theres probably a bit of greed 
thrown in the mix as well, but lets 
be honest  whoever thinks theres 
money in the newspaper business is 
kidding themselves.
By and large, though, journalism 
is the product of pure, unadulterated 
caring. If apathy vanquished empathy once and for all in a battle of the 
sensibilities, well, then journalism as 
we know it would cease to exist.
The Tartan, like any newspaper, 
is a vehicle for caring. What does the 
paper care about? The obvious  
and true  answer is Carnegie Mellon and the well-being of its students. 
Beyond that, the paper cares about 
producing unbiased content, keeping 
the student body informed, and encouraging important dialogues and 
engagement on campus.
Journalism, in this respect, is so 
terribly important, not only because 
it is the result of caring, but because 
it facilitates it.
Lets face it. Carnegie Mellon is 
not a campus particularly charged 
with political zeal. The university is a 
research institution known for excelling in everything science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM). 
Consequently, it attracts many practical-minded and levelheaded students 
with their eyes not only on technical 
innovation, but also largely on pretty 
diplomas or a prettier six-?gure salary. Theres nothing wrong with such 
goals, of course, but they can contribute to one rather insidious side effect: 
indifference.
Walk past the Cut, and youre 
more likely to see robots being built 
than a rally being staged. Aspiring 
scientists easily outnumber aspiring 
activists. Ask your average student, 
and they are more likely to know 
three coding languages than the latest happenings in Russia or Israel. At 
the upcoming Activities Fair, expect 
to see more than a dozen engineering and robotics organizations before 
you come across our one-of-each 
organizations for environmentalism, feminism, and LGBTQ issues. 
At Carnegie Mellon, the STEM, and 
even social, clubs thrive. The sizable 
number of community service clubs 
is adequate, and sports certainly exist with members who participate in 
clubs and on competitive teams with 
enthusiasm.
However, the handful of organizations dedicated to the discussion of 
ideas and to the implementation of 
large-scale, positive social change  
to actively addressing issues outside 
the world of Carnegie Mellon and our 
personal aspirations  are often understaffed and underappreciated.
Technology and science are harbingers of the future, and students 
at this university make discoveries 
and build tools to better humanity 
every day. Every little bit of practical 
change brought about by community 
service is valuable. Pragmatism and 
calm in the face of controversy are 
positive traits not to be scoffed at.
However, there is still something 
to be said for advocating  wholeheartedly and unashamedly  for 
the various national and global social 
issues that affect the world outside of 
Carnegie Mellon. This advocacy must 
come in the form of organized, highly 
visible groups of campus members.
They call millennials the me 
generation. They call us entitled and 
dependent and apathetic. Why not 
prove them wrong?
Make Carnegie Mellon as much a 
bed for social change as it already is 
for technological innovation.
Ariel Hoffmaier (ahoffmai@) is 
Forum editor for The Tartan.
The Tartan was curious about what people are saying about the university these days. So we asked ?rst-years,
What stereotypes about Carnegie Mellon have turned out to be true?
Compiled by Justin McGown
BRANDON SCHMUCK
Staffwriter
Unless you have been living in a 
cave for the last few weeks, you are 
likely very familiar with the viral icebucket challenge that has taken Facebook by storm. Chances are youve 
watched videos of people who have 
dumped large buckets of ice water 
onto their heads with little idea of 
why they were doing it besides impressing a few friends. Everyone 
from Bill Gates to former President 
George W. Bush has taken part in the 
challenge. I myself took the plunge.
Along with the $10,000 worth 
of cash that Charlie Sheen dumped 
over his head, the ALS Association 
(ASLA) has managed to raise over 
$41.8 million as of Aug. 21. However, 
while signi?cant, it is only 0.01 percent of the total $416.5 billion that 
Americans donated to charitable organizations last year.
This low donation rate shows 
one of the major ?aws with viral social media campaigns. As Malcolm 
Gladwell acknowledges in the The 
New Yorker, the platforms of social 
media are built around weak ties. 
Weak ties are created with those that 
you follow on Facebook, but would 
not otherwise stay in touch with. A 
network of weak ties is extremely effective in spreading information or, 
in this case, videos of people pouring ice over their heads. As of Aug. 
15, 1.2 million ice bucket challenge 
videos have been uploaded and 15 
million people have talked about it. 
In addition to these numbers, we 
can assume that a large portion of 
the 757 million daily users that Facebook reports have in some way been 
exposed to the challenge.
However, according to The New 
York Times, only 739,000 new donors 
have emerged as a result of the challenge. This shows a less fortunate effect of the weak-tie network. While 
members are usually willing to join a 
Facebook page or post a status about 
a cause, they are often not willing to 
give a signi?cant contribution to that 
cause. People invest themselves very 
little in most of the things they see on 
social media networks.
Prior to taking the ice bucket 
challenge, a friend that I asked to 
record me asked if I knew anything 
about the ALSA, at which time I realized I had little idea about it and 
was about to take part in a challenge 
supporting it. He then wisely forced 
me to prepare a paragraph at the beginning of my video explaining what 
ALS was, so I did not join the thousands, if not millions, of people that 
took part in this challenge that were 
completely clueless about ALS.
The ice bucket challenge has 
brought people from around the 
world together to raise funding and 
?ght against a disease that no one 
should have to experience. Overall, 
it has been a successful campaign. 
However, we must accept it for what 
it is: a viral campaign. Viral campaigns are an amazing way to spread 
information in the virtual world, but 
if one wants to make a real difference, it is necessary to spread information in the real world.
Brandon Schmuck (bschmuck@) is a 
staffwriter for The Tartan.
Ice bucket challenge campaign ?awed
Braden Kelner/Editor-in-chief
Students must overcome 
effects of CMU Bubble
Social activism must drive indifference from campus community
AMELIA BRITTON
Staffwriter
As excited as we may be to welcome our friends back to campus, we 
know what lies ahead: long nights, 
busy days, and stressful interactions. Rest is one of the ?rst things 
to disappear from our routines, but 
even before sleep there is one more 
thing we sacri?ce: our connection to 
the outside world.
The CMU Bubble, as it is known 
occurs when we shroud ourselves in 
the campus community. The news 
is something many of us get noti?-
cations about on our smartphones, 
and which we only acknowledge 
for a moment before continuing to 
scroll, checking our Facebook noti?-
cations and replying to emails.
There are two current stories in 
particular which I believe merit further consideration and discussion. 
First, the recent events in Ferguson, 
Mo. feel brutally anachronistic. Law 
enforcement of?cers in riot gear and 
protesters assaulted with tear gas 
seem too outrageous to be real, particularly in the American Midwest 
of 2014. The militaristic, racially 
charged reaction of local of?cials 
has led to national controversy and 
outrage. The situation in Ferguson 
must be watched closely, as it connotes a complicated and troubling 
historical precedent.
A second news item of note is 
Brandon Stantons world tour with 
the United Nations. Stanton, the 
photographer behind popular blog 
and best-selling book Humans of 
New York, is taking his work outside 
of the city, conducting interviews 
and telling stories through his pictures globally. Stanton shows the 
human element of places like Iraq 
and the Democratic Republic of 
Congo, whose people are so often 
skewed and simpli?ed in Western 
media portrayals.
Stanton is known for pairing 
stunning portraits with funny, poignant, or deeply personal quotes 
from his subjects. The use of personal narratives puts these events into 
context, such as the escalation of the 
con?ict between Israel and Palestine 
since May, or the nearby threat of 
the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria 
(ISIS)  which has been classi?ed 
as a terrorist organization by the 
United Nations  in Iraq, Lebanon, 
and Israel. Interviews with Syrian 
refugees in Jordan or Iraqi residents 
?eeing ISIS offer a starker and more 
developed picture of these con?icts 
than typical media coverage.
Both Ferguson and the HONY 
tour relate to such signi?cant issues 
in the world today, yet neither is being discussed enough on campus. 
Who can blame us? Our lives are 
hectic. The world beyond campus is 
a distant place, usually unrelated to 
our stresses and fears. Will another 
failed cease-?re along the Gaza Strip 
have any effect on my calculus ?nal? 
Not particularly. Still, nonchalance 
is troubling. If we attend Carnegie 
Mellon to pursue our passions  to 
put our hearts in the work  then 
we should be equally passionate 
about applying our education to 
real-world issues.
Amelia Britton (aabritto@) is a staffwriter for The Tartan.
Lena Vlahakis
Chemical Engineering
First-year
Everybody is named Kevin.
Alisandra Welch
Chemical Engineering
First-year
The campus is really quirky and 
filled with tons of interesting 
people.
Obianozo Chukwuma
Civil Engineering
First-year
Everyone thinks that everyone 
[else] is smarter than them.
Jai Ghose
Business Administration
First-year
Everyone is from New Jersey.
Sarah Deluty
Biology, Neurobiology
First-year
Everyone at CMU is extremely 
talented and intelligent in their 
respective fields.
Alison Chui/Staff Artist
 The news is 
something many of us 
... only acknowledge 
for a moment.

---------------------------------------------------

A8  thetartan.org/sports The Tartan  August 25, 2014
NFL Preview: Chiefs, Packers face tough 2014 seasons
ZEKE ROSENBERG
Staffwriter
Every year, several NFL 
teams that were impressive in 
the previous season take huge 
steps back. Based on offseason 
moves and some statistical indicators, here are some teams 
that might disappoint in 2014. 
 
Kansas City Chiefs
After going 214 in 2012, 
the Kansas City Chiefs made a 
series of big offseason moves 
and became the second consecutive team to go from worst 
to playoffs. 
However, there is a reason they only had an excellent start. Last season could 
be split into two parts: their 
undefeated record before the 
bye-week and consistent failure after it.
Before the bye, this Chiefs 
team beat up on a very weak 
schedule. Only one of the 
teams they played reached the 
playoffs, and only two could 
muster .500 records. The playoff team they did play was the 
Philadelphia Eagles in week 
three, before Nick Foles replaced Michael Vick and made 
that team good. The Chiefs 
were very lucky to pull out 
one-point squeakers against 
the Dallas Cowboys and Houston Texans, two mediocre 
squads. 
Overall, the teams they 
played in the ?rst half ?nished 
5292, a record that would 
amount to between ?ve and 
six wins over the course of one 
NFL season. That would be 
among the worst in the NFL.
In the second half of the 
season, two major changes 
took place. First, the teams 
they played got better. Second, key injuries slowed the 
team. The record of teams 
that the Chiefs played over the 
?nal seven weeks of the season was 6250, which would 
translate to between eight and 
nine wins, an average team.
The Chiefs went 25 in this 
leg of the season, which is a 
huge drop, even with the better competition. Injuries limited the effectiveness of outside 
linebackers Tamba Hali and 
Justin Houston, which greatly 
diminished the pass rush, the 
keystone to the Chiefs success 
in the ?rst half. 
With the pass rush lagging, 
unexpected ?rst-half standouts like cornerback Marcus 
Cooper wilted and the team 
completely fell apart defensively. They consistently gave 
up point totals topping thirty.
This year, the Chiefs 
schedule gets harder, so some 
regression would be expected 
even if they did not get worse. 
However, this team is much 
worse than last season. 
Cornerback Brandon Flowers, guard Jon Asamoah, and 
offensive tackle Branden Albert all left with nothing close 
to suitable replacements. 
The offense was bad last 
year and it lost most of its pass 
protection without adding 
anyone to help. Wide receiver 
Dexter McCluster might be 
missed in special teams. They 
will likely be near the middle 
of the league, but its not hard 
to imagine the Chiefs returning to the top of the draft. 
 
Green Bay Packers
The Green Bay Packers are 
not obvious candidates to disappoint this season. Quarterback Aaron Rodgers missed 
half of 2013. 
The receivers are still 
very talented, and the loss 
of James Jones will probably 
not dent their production. 
Guards T.J. Lang and Josh 
Sitton should continue to be 
excellent assets to the team.
There are three reasons 
this team could still regress.
The ?rst is that their defense is laughable. Outside 
linebacker Clay Matthews has 
spent more minutes in commercials than he has on the 
?eld, and consistently seems 
to be out with a nagging 
injury. 
Anyway, he has been mediocre at best while on the ?eld. 
Nose tackle B.J. Raji and middle linebacker A.J. Hawk have 
never lived up to expectations. 
Outside linebacker Julius Peppers is getting very old, and 
was not productive last year 
on a terrible Bears defense. 
Except for rookie free safety 
Ha Ha Clinton-Dix, there are 
no possible impact players 
on this defense, and that can 
make it hard for the team to 
succeed. 
This team was 31st in defensive DVOA last year, according to Football Outsiders, and 
outperformed that ranking in 
statistics like yards and points 
surrendered, which indicates 
that the defense will somehow 
be even more abysmal than it 
was last season.
The offense might not 
be much better than it was 
last year, either. Seven extra 
games of Rodgers will be a 
massive boost, but this offense 
reportedly plans to run more, 
which will diminish Rodgerss 
value. 
Eddie Lacy was a revelation 
last year, but much of his success came due to game plans 
that focused on the Packers reputation as a passing 
offense. 
Lacy only had two great 
games last year, one in the 
game Rodgers got injured 
and one against the Cowboys, 
the worst defense in recent 
memory. 
His success was overrated 
due to his goal line carries 
which gave him fantasy football value. This coaching staff 
seems to be buying into his 
hype, which could cause them 
to self-destruct. 
This team will regress 
slightly overall, but the massive improvement that is possible throughout the rest of 
the NFC North, where every 
other team made signi?cant 
offseason gains, could put The 
Pack in a bad spot in 2014.
SPORTS COMMENTARYNFL season preview: Bills and Buccaneers are optimistic
ZEKE ROSENBERG
Staffwriter
With the NFL season 
quickly approaching, a busy 
offseason and a deep and talented draft class have altered 
the landscape of the league. 
These teams were under .500 
last season but, due to a combination of statistical indicators, offseason moves, and 
a couple of hunches, could 
?ip expectations on their 
heads and improve this year.  
Buffalo Bills
The Bills could make a 
big leap this year. Behind the 
second-best defensive line in 
the league and rookie middle 
linebacker Kiko Alonso, this 
team quietly had a dominant 
defense last year. While Alonso is out for the season with an 
injury and safety Jairus Byrd 
has left for the New Orleans 
Saints, Brandon Spikes and 
DaNorris Searcy are competent replacements, respectively. Although the defense was 
good last year, the Bills were 
still awful. The big upgrades 
will come on the offensive side 
of the ball.
The Bills offense last year 
was a disaster. Quarterback 
EJ Manuel was okay when he 
wasnt hurt, but his replacements were bad. Running 
back CJ Spiller had a letdown 
season and produced nothing 
for most of the season. Very 
little on this offense worked 
last season, but that will likely 
change next year.
First, the line should improve this season. Left tackle 
Cordy Glenn should continue 
to improve in his third season. Eric Wood will still be a 
helpful player at center for 
the Bills. Rookie right tackle, 
Cyrus Kouandjio, could be a 
major addition for the Bills. He 
projects as a great run blocker 
for a run-?rst team.
This improvement in the 
line could help open up more 
space for Spiller. Spillers 
season last year was a disappointment, but its probably 
not permanent. Spiller is not 
old enough, even for a running back, to already be on 
the downslope of his career, 
and he still has the speed and 
agility that made him great in 
2012. The extra gaps created 
by the line could boost Spillers performance next season.
The teams passing game 
might improve as well. Manuel 
missed time last year and was 
turnover-prone, but both of 
these things could diminish as 
he gets more comfortable with 
the Bills system. Furthermore, 
rookie wide receiver Sammy 
Watkins might be the best 
player in this years draft class. 
Whole highlight reels have already been dedicated to Watkins one-handed catches and 
moves with the ball. He could 
open up space for the running 
game and launch the Bills into 
the upper half of the AFC East. 
It might not be enough to warrant a playoff appearance, but 
in a weak division, it might be 
enough.
Tampa Bay Buccaneers
In the NFC, the Buccaneers 
could deliver on some of their 
2013 promise. Head coach 
Greg Schiano and quarterback 
Josh Freeman had a lockerroom dispute that went public, 
and Freeman was abysmal on 
the ?eld. Murphys Law held, 
and the season was lost after 
a 07 start. The team only 
slightly improved down the 
stretch, going 45 in their last 
nine games.
The roster is talented 
enough to think they might 
improve. Defensive tackle Gerald McCoy and outside linebacker Lavonte David are two 
of the best defensive players 
in the league. Former Titans 
cornerback Alterraun Verner 
was a solid addition to shore 
up the secondary and cannot 
possibly be as bad as former 
cornerback Darrelle Revis was 
last year. Free safety Dashon 
Goldson is also likely to be a 
productive player this season. 
With some stars and few true 
weaknesses on the defense, 
this unit should play well. 
They were already the eighth 
best defense by DVOA last 
season, according to Football 
Outsiders, and that number 
should stay the same or improve this year.
Offensively, this team 
should improve as well. As 
stated before, Freeman was 
awful and was traded to the 
Vikings midseason. Backup 
quarterback, and rookie 
Mike Glennon was raw and, 
despite improving over the 
course of the season, not very 
good. Quarterback Josh McCown was a smart offseason 
addition. Coming off a fantastic year with the Chicago 
Bears, he should be a solid 
stopgap before Glennon is 
ready to take the reins. Running back Doug Martin will 
probably miss fewer games 
this year. Rookie wide receiver 
Mike Evans is a great complement to wide receiver Vincent 
Jackson in the passing game. 
This offense may not be dominant, but if it clicks, this team 
has the potential to be very 
good. Either way, this team is 
much better than 412.
None of these improvements even touch upon the 
most important change made 
to this years Bucs. Last year, 
the team clearly hated head 
coach Schiano. Schiano was 
more of a disciplinarian than 
a coach, and the team consistently came out in predictable 
sets and looked uninterested. 
Lovie Smith was an excellent hire, with a proven track 
record of winning and likability among players. This will be 
a good team that will be on the 
same page with a competent 
head coach. The AFC South is 
historically erratic  no team 
has won the division in consecutive years. The Bucs will 
probably not win it, with the 
New Orleans Saints set to have 
a great team, but this team 
could end up in the playoff discussion by seasons end.
Courtesy of Bryan Austin via Wikimedia Commons
More outdoor recreation options coming this semester
BRADEN KELNER
Editor-in-Chief
The Carnegie Mellon Athletics Department began offering an expanded outdoor 
recreation program last week 
and will continue the program this the fall with a stated goal of providing greater 
extracurricular opportunities 
for members of the campus 
community, according to a 
university press release.
The department said it 
bought equipment for a number of outdoor games, such as 
badminton, bocce, cornhole, 
croquet, Kan Jam, ladder ball, 
Spikeball, volleyball, washer 
toss, and wif?e ball.
Our ambition is to provide more opportunities for 
social engagement through 
sport, competition and physical activity, said Director of 
Athletics Josh Centor in the 
release. We have strategically invested resources in a way 
that we feel will maximize our 
potential in this realm.
Throughout the ?rst week 
of classes, the department 
said it will organize games 
and activities across from 
Warner Hall from 3-6 p.m. 
each day.
Students interested in participating should contact Sara 
Gauntner, assistant director 
of athletics for instructional 
programs and recreation.
Photo courtesy of the Carnegie Mellon Athletics Department
David Wiley, coordinator of intramural and club sports, and Lauren London, assistant volleyball coach, play a 
game of cornhole.
The Buffalo Bills and the Tampa Bay Buccaneers have the chance to score big this season if they play their 
cards right. 
Our ambition 
is to provide 
more 
opportunities 
for social 
engagement...
Josh Centor
Director of Athletics

---------------------------------------------------

Summer Music Festivals 
Theres a lot to be learned about our 
society from live rap  B8
The Best of Netflix
A list of shows that are more important 
than your schoolwork  B4
08.25.14 109, Issue 2
Guardians of the Galaxy
New Marvel-verse film hits big  B7

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
Take a break from your first day of class for a 
laugh.
11
The Tartan. Box 119. UC Suite 103. Carnegie Mellon University. 5000 Forbes Ave. Pittsburgh, PA 15213. www.thetartan.org.  2014 The Tartan
PUBLISHER Rachel Cohen EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Braden Kelner
PILLBOX EDITOR Joey Peiser ASSISTANT PILLBOX EDITOR Jenna Bodnar COMICS EDITOR Maryyann Landlord
ART EDITOR MIchelle Wan PHOTO EDITOR Jonathan Leung
COPY MANAGER James Wu COVER Kelsey Scott
8
46
710
regulars...
Advice
Everything you need to know about acronyms 
and testosterone. 
3
...diversions
...this week only
Fall fashion
Make sure that your wardrobe transitions well 
from summer to fall.
3
Binge Watching
Need ideas for your next Netflix selection? 
Check out this helpful (or harmful) guide.
4
Diagon Alley
The Wizarding World of Harry Potter theme 
park adds new attractions.
6
Guardians
Marvels newest film, Guardians of the Galaxy, 
charms viewers.
7
Music Festivals
Everything you ever need to know in life you 
can learn at a music festival.
8
CMOA
The Carnegie Museum of Art is just down the 
road. Read up on whats waiting for you.
10
Puzzles
Warm your brain up after summer vacation.13
Horoscopes
The stars have predictions for the start of your 
school year.
14
Calendar
Get involved on campus with this handy 
calendar.
15

---------------------------------------------------

fashion
pillbox 08.25.143
Transition your wardrobe
From summer to fall, what stays and what goes?
Each summer brings new styles that we enjoy 
wearing for the few months of warmth we get before 
it becomes too cold to wear them.
This summer saw the revival of the kimono, a 
traditional Japanese robe, which was slightly 
altered, embellished, and modernized to appeal to 
the contemporary fashionista. Thrown over a tank 
top and some denim shorts, it made for the perfect 
summer outfit. Celebrities such as Rita Ora and 
Vanessa Hudgens were seen giving this trend a try. 
Ora was seen wearing a dark floral kimono jacket 
with a simple short black dress in the airport while 
Hudgens chose to pair a long tie-dyed and fringed 
kimono with a loosely fitted dress.
Kimonos even look great with dresses and sandals 
for a casual evening look. To transition this trend 
into the fall, wear it as you would a normal jacket 
while the weather is still relatively warm. One of 
the biggest trends this summer, the kimono is here 
to stay for the next few months and could even 
reappear next summer. Keep wearing it if you have 
one, and if you dont, it isnt too late to get one!
Maxi dresses have been a summer staple for 
the past couple of years and they reappeared this 
summer with new details. While the high-low 
hemline for dresses and skirts has been more or less 
phased out, many maxi dresses now have a sheer 
overlay and a shorter layer underneath. Maxi dresses 
and skirts with one or, especially this summer, two 
slits were common. While the maxi dress is mostly 
a summer item, maxi skirts can sometimes be 
transitioned into the fall if the material is thicker and 
a darker color. In the fall, wear your maxi skirt with a 
light, cropped sweater to keep that summery vibe.
The daisy pattern is a recently growing trend 
that was huge this summer, too. Daisies may seem 
like a childish pattern, but they can now be found 
on nearly everything, from tops to skirts to dresses. 
Though floral patterns are more characteristic of 
summer, simply layer a cardigan over your daisypatterned dress and pair it with boots for fall.
Rompers are yet another staple for the ideal 
summer closet and, like the maxi dress, showed up 
in a variety of new designs this summer. For some 
reason, many clothing pieces this summer had 
mini embellishments similar to pom-poms lining 
the hemline, and rompers were no exception. In 
addition to mini pom-poms, other embellishments 
commonly seen on rompers this summer included 
crochet hemlines and flouncy top layers over the 
bottom. Rompers are clothing pieces that are difficult 
to transition into the fall, and should just be kept in 
your closet until next summer.
Though theyre quite similar to rompers, matching 
top-and-bottom sets could be found at many 
stores this summer. Fashion-forward retailers, 
such as Topshop, carried tops that were usually 
cropped with a high-waisted skirt or a pair of shorts 
in a matching pattern that were meant to be worn 
together. Celebrities sporting this trend included 
Taylor Swift, who wore a red textured crop top and 
matching skirt from the brand Aqua, as well as 
Kaley Cuoco, who opted for a floral crop top and 
matching loosely-fitted pants. It is difficult to predict 
whether this trend will also reappear next summer, 
but overall, these matching top-and-bottom sets are 
strictly a summer piece that, like rompers, should be 
stored in your closet until the following summer.
While denim shorts are a dependable summer 
piece, they were overshadowed by the presence of 
more comfortable fabric shorts this summer. The 
detailed fabric shorts may have replaced denim 
shorts this summer not only due to the comfort they 
provide, but also because of their versatility. They 
can easily be made the center of any outfit. It is 
highly likely that these will continue to be in style 
next summer, so go grab yourself a pair if you dont 
have them already. Match them with a plain top, 
loose sweater, and some boots for slightly cooler 
September days.
Another clothing trend that was prevalent this 
summer was the asymmetrical hem skort. The 
skirt-and-shorts combination that most of us thought 
we left behind in elementary school reappeared 
with a revamped design this summer that was 
less childish. An asymmetric, pointed hem could 
be found in the front of these skorts, making for a 
unique design that was very trendy. Usually these 
should be saved for more formal occasions. They look 
amazing with a dressy top and heels and can still be 
worn for nicer occasions in the upcoming months.
Gladiator sandals reappeared this summer  
as they have for the past few years  and again 
could be found in an assortment of heights. The tall 
gladiator sandal trend that I had thought would come 
to an end last summer returned even trendier this 
summer. They look great with sundresses, shorts, 
and basically anything! Before its time to start 
wearing boots, gladiator sandals make for a great 
alternative. If you dont have a pair, nows the time 
to get one, especially since gladiator sandals will be 
on sale at the end of the summer. Theyre a style that 
you can depend on staying in fashion for a while.
Nikita Mishra | Staffwriter
Advice for awkward people
Dear Evan,
Im having trouble 
keeping up with the 
number of acronyms 
this school keeps giving 
everything, and with the 
new buildings and names 
and majors and whatnot, 
I dont think Im going to 
know what anything is 
anymore. I think Im in the 
UC, but is it really the UC?
Please advise,
Adverse Reaction to 
Multitudinous Yet Oddly 
Fetching Nicknames, 
Amnesia Manifests Every 
Say What?
Dear ARMY OF NAMES?
I doubt youre actually 
sitting inside the body 
of Jared L. Cohon, and 
everyones going to keep 
calling it the UC, anyway. 
There are too many 
acronyms and colloquial 
names for places on 
campus.
I doubt anyone else 
remembers all of this 
schools acronyms, either, 
since they change more 
often than Nicki Minajs hair.
So instead, make some up 
in everyday conversation. 
Where are you headed? 
The SWID. Oh. Wheres 
that? How the heck could 
you not know where the 
SWID is?
TL;DR; no one cares about 
this schools acronyms, 
so dont waste your time 
unless you want to screw 
with someone.
Except when theyre 
useful,
Evan Kahn
Dear Evan,
Im living in Hamerschlag, 
and the people here are 
nuts. In the rooms to 
my right, every day is 
Thirsty Thursday. Down 
the hall to my left, its a 
never-ending League of 
Legends tournament, 
where everyone screams 
at each other from across 
the hall. My roommate 
jacks off at least three 
times a night. Where 
can I find some peace 
and quiet? And why is 
everyone bonkers?
Pleadingly,
Normal, Ordinary Fellow, 
Upset with Noise
Dear NO FUN,
Its not just you  Schlag 
has enough testosterone 
floating around to make 
one whole Clint Eastwood, 
and not many people can 
withstand that terrifying 
glory. 
Really, though, the place 
is disgusting. Id say go to 
Hunt, but the renovations 
have made it more of an 
embarrassment than it 
already was. The RAs 
actually do their jobs in 
Stever, so you should plan 
to have sleepovers there as 
much as you can.
Or just wait it out (its only 
for a year),
Evan Kahn
Need advice? Send queries 
to advice@thetartan.org.
About acronyms and testosterone 

---------------------------------------------------

4television
pillbox 08.25.14
Determined to start the semester off strong by staying 
focused on your studies? Not if Net?ix has anything to 
say about it.
Find yourself with free time, and the streaming service 
becomes your best friend.
Find yourself close to missing a deadline, and youll wish 
you could exit out of the show on your screen. Even if 
you manage to barricade yourself on Hunt Librarys quiet 
?oor, theres still opportunity for distraction if your laptop 
is connected to the Internet. Behind social media, Net?ix 
may be a college students biggest foe when it comes to 
academics.
Going beyond Net?ixs popular originals like House 
of Cards and Orange Is The New Black, here are ?ve 
shows on Net?ix to watch when you should be doing 
something else.
Lost
Seasons on Net?ix: 6
Number of Episodes: 120
Time Wasted: 3 days, 14 hours, 52 minutes
Number of round trips you could have driven to 
Pittsburgh International Airport: 58
Take the plunge down the hatch with Jack and Kate 
to ?nd a way off of this shows mysterious island. 
Sometimes more baf?ing than The Island itself are 
its seemingly hostile inhabitants, The Others. The 
show will no doubt keep you wanting to know more 
about these elusive people and their origins in the most 
remote spot on Earth. From smoke monsters to secret 
codes and hydrogen bombs, Losts creator, J..J. 
Abrams, puts his characters through it all. Although the 
show raises many questions about the island, its ?nale, 
which aired in 2010, may leave you asking even more. 
Nevertheless, Losts unpredictable storyline and wellrounded characters will force you to move on to the next 
episode even when you know your project group mates 
cant afford you to.
Dexter
Seasons on Net?ix: 8
Number of Episodes: 96
Time Wasted: 3 days, 12 hours, 18 minutes
Number of times you could have watched Randy 
Pauschs Last Lecture on YouTube: 66
Bloodstain pattern analyst by day; serial killer by night. 
Indulge with Dexter Morgan as he punishes criminals 
who have managed to sidestep the law. Adopted as 
a child, Dexter learned from his father to suppress his 
violent tendencies and only kill when his victims deserve 
it. Set in sunny Miami, Dexters daytime activities 
with the Miami Metro Police Department often starkly 
contrast with his gory nighttime hobby. From murderers 
known as the Ice Truck Killer to The Skinner, the people 
that Dexter tracks down in his spare time are often more 
twisted than him. First aired on Showtime in 2006, the 
series ended its critically-acclaimed run in the fall of 
2013. All episodes are currently available for streaming 
on Net?ix.
Photo courtesy of James MacDonald via FlickrWatching the ABC drama Lost  often considered a pioneer of complex storytelling techniques and serial format on primetime network television  
is a gre at way to spend a weekend during which you were supposed to study for 15-112.
Five Net?ix shows to binge watch instead
Some say the real lesson in a college education is time management    
Dexter  about a serial killer who kills serial killers 
  is a very original series with a twisted sense of 
humor.
 Photo courtesy of Tom Francis via Flickr

---------------------------------------------------

television
pillbox 08.25.145
of putting your heart into the work
 how well can you manage your time amongst all the shows youre into?
How I Met Your Mother
Seasons on Net?ix: 8
Number of Episodes: 184
Time Wasted: 2 days, 16 hours, 49 minutes
Number of sandwiches you could have ordered at 
The Exchange during lunch rush: 259
This shows story, true to its title, recounts to Ted 
Mosbys children how he met their mother. Throughout 
the series, Teds four best friends, Robin, Marshall, Lily, 
and Barney make ridiculous bets, hide secrets, and 
pull stunts that are integral to the ultimate meeting 
and subsequent events, which viewers waited more 
than eight years to see. Barney  with his bro code, a 
tie decorated with ducks, and witty remarks  prevails 
as the sitcoms standout character, although every 
character has their own charm within this close-knit 
group of friends. If you stream season nine from other 
services, How I Met Your Mother will take well over three 
days to watch and add an additional 44 sandwiches to 
your lunch runs at the Exchange.
The League
Seasons on Net?ix: 4
Number of Episodes: 45
Time Wasted: 16 hours, 4 minutes
Number of times you could have walked to the 
Cathedral of Learning and back: 48
Whether youre a sports fan or not, try to contain your 
laughter as you watch a group of buddies become 
overly invested in their fantasy football league. The 
show touches on many of the characteristics central 
to all fantasy leagues, including overly-competitive 
wives and questionable trades, as well as things youd 
never imagine seeing in a fantasy football show, like Mr. 
McGibblets, a giant Barney-like costume that one cast 
member wears. Over the top and ?lled with plenty of 
one-liners, the show was originally on Fox Entertainment 
Groups FX, but was moved to sister channel FXX for its 
?fth season, which aired in September 2013. Including 
season ?ve, the show clocks in at more than 21 hours 
to date. The Leagues sixth season is set to premiere on 
Sept. 6 at 10 p.m.
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
Seasons on Net?ix: 6
Number of Episodes: 121
Time Wasted: 1 day, 20 hours, 18 minutes
Number of minutes you could have studied in 
Club Hunt: 2,658
The force may not be with your grades, but it will be 
with you when you watch Star Wars: The Clone Wars. 
Try out this show if youre looking for a cartoon with a 
light-hearted tone, but serious source material. Not only 
is the show clever and the animation slick, but the main 
characters are some of the most iconic sci-? characters 
ever created. Along with classic ?gures like Anakin 
Skywalker, Obi-Wan Kenobi, and Yoda, there are also 
newcomers, most notably Anakins padawan, Ahsoka 
Tano, who ?rst appeared in the Star Wars: The Clone 
Wars movie that kicked off the television series. The 
shows ?rst ?ve seasons aired on Cartoon Network, while 
Net?ix picked up the ?nal season as original material.
Braden Kelner | Editor-in-Chief
Time Wasted category calculated from episode times 
on Net?ix; How I Met Your Mother season nine and The 
League season ?ve times calculated from iTunes episode 
times. Airport travel determined with a 45-minute 
travel time estimated by Carnegie Mellon. Exchange 
sandwiches estimated with a 15-minute wait time. 
Travel time to the Cathedral of Learning estimated by 
Google Maps. Last Lecture YouTube video time from 
Carnegie Mellons YouTube channel.
Photo courtesy of LucasArt via Wikimedia Commons
Originally airing on Cartoon Network before Netflix 
produced the final season of original material, Star 
Wars: The Clone Wars features beloved characters.
Photo courtesy of Francis Orante via Wikimedia Commons
Many say the strength of How I Met Your Mother 
lies in its ensemble cast, comprised of (left to 
right) Neil Patrick Harris, Cobie Smulders, Jason 
Segal, Alyson Hannigan, and Josh Radnor.
Mad Men
Seasons on Netflix: 6
Number of Episodes: 78
Sons of Anarchy
Seasons on Netflix: 5
Number of Episodes: 66
Bobs Burgers
Seasons on Netflix: 3
Number of Episodes: 45
Freaks and Geeks
Seasons on Netflix  and sadly in 
existence : 1
Number of Episodes: 18
The West Wing
Seasons on Netflix: 7
Number of Episodes: 156
Top Gear
Seasons on Netflix: 19
Number of Episodes: 149
Anthony Bourdain: Parts Unknown
Seasons on Netflix: 2
Number of Episodes: 15
Trailer Park Boys
Seasons on Netflix: 7
Number of Episodes: 55
Still have precious 
time to waste? Check 
out some of these 
Netflix gems:

---------------------------------------------------

6travel
pillbox 08.25.14
Wands at the ready.
This summer, Universal Orlando Resort expanded its 
wildly successful The Wizarding World of Harry Potter 
with the addition of Diagon Alley in its Universal Studios 
theme park.
Like the original Hogsmeade village section, opened in 
2010 and located in the resorts Islands of Adventure 
theme park, the new section immerses visitors in a world 
as rich as the books and movies that inspired it and 
offers a limited yet satisfying lineup of additional Harry 
Potter-themed rides.
Standing outside the Diagon Alley expansion, visitors 
might think theyve booked a ticket to London instead 
of Universal Studios. A recreation of Londons Eros 
Fountain stands in front of the Kings Cross railway 
station, a few stores, and a traditional red phone booth. 
The only things that may seem out of place from this 
seemingly non-wizarding world is the purple Knight Bus 
parked next to the fountain and a magical orchestral 
score emanating onto the streets.
Step into the buildings and through a brick wall, though, 
and visitors will ?nd themselves standing in an alley 
before Weasleys Wizard Wheezes, Fred and George 
Weasleys joke shop. Just like in the Harry Potter and 
the Half-Blood Prince ?lm, a multi-story mechanical man 
with arms and neck protruding from the shops front 
window repeatedly lifts a hat from his head to reveal a 
rabbit, only to make it disappear seconds later.
Along the expansions main alley are a variety of shops, 
including Madam Malkins Robes for All Occasions, 
Flourish and Blotts bookstore, and Ollivanders Wand 
Shop, all of which pop with brightly painted signs and 
window displays almost stuffed fuller with magical 
artifacts than Hermiones beaded handbag, which she 
enchants to hold an unlimited number of objects in 
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows. While enthusiasts 
cant access all of the shops, the ones they can enter are 
?lled with merchandise and furnishings that look like 
authentic movie props, including Time-Turner necklaces, 
Hogwarts house robes, and Hermiones Yule Ball dress. 
Every square inch of the alley is covered in cobblestone 
and brick so that it takes on the bleak tone captured in 
the franchises later movies.
The centerpiece of the alley, a ?re-breathing dragon 
crouched upon Gringotts Wizarding Bank, tops the 
expansion off. There is not one ?aw in the sections 
detail that could pull visitors away from the wizarding 
world and back into their non-magical lives. 
Of course, no theme park section would be complete 
without its rides, and The Wizarding World expansion 
delivers on this end too, although on a smaller scale.
Within Gringotts lies the expansions main attraction, 
Harry Potter and the Escape from Gringotts. This 
family-friendly roller coaster brings many of the series 
most beloved characters to life in a bank breakout that 
resembles Harry, Ron, and Hermiones climactic escape 
in The Deathly Hallows, but with a few twists. While not 
a coaster that delivers major drops and speed, it is most 
memorable in the story that it brings to life.
The expansions second attraction, the Hogwarts 
Express, takes visitors on a train ride from Diagon 
Alley in Universal Studios to The Wizarding Worlds 
Hogsmeade village in Islands of Adventure. During 
the ride, the train simulates a trip toward Hogwarts, or 
back to Kings Cross station, depending on which way 
it is traveling. Each way offers a signi?cantly different 
experience, both of which are worth checking out. Since 
its not a thriller, this ride is perfect for the entire family 
and primarily serves as a bridge between the worlds two 
sections.
Although these rides are the only two new attractions to 
The Wizarding World, they nicely supplement the worlds 
original rides in Hogsmeade. While one more ride in 
the expanded section would have rounded out Diagon 
Alleys offerings, The Wizarding World does not suffer 
from a lack of attractions, especially if guests visit both 
sections in one go.
Florida visitors looking to relive the Harry Potter 
franchises books and movies wont be disappointed by 
the expansion. With its detailed buildings and lighthearted rides, the section may even cause some to forget 
the Muggle world they live in for a bit.
Braden Kelner | Editor-in-Chief
New Universal Studios addition a magical success 
Patrons of The Wizarding World of Harry Potter can now stroll the shops of Diagon Alley
Braden Kelner | Editor-in-Chief
Weasleys Wizard Wheezes sells a variety of tricks.
Braden Kelner | Editor-in-Chief
The streets of The Wizarding World have expanded to 
include more classic shops from the books. 

---------------------------------------------------

movies
pillbox 08.25.147
What do you get when you put a thief, assassin, warrior, 
raccoon, and a tree in an intergalactic prison together? 
Apparently, superheroes. At least, thats what happened 
in Marvels Guardians of the Galaxy, released earlier this 
month.
It would be easy to write off the latest installment in the 
Marvel Cinematic Universe as just another ?lm in a long 
line of superhero movies, but to do so would ignore the 
departure in tone Guardians brings to the table.
The ?lm focuses on Peter Star-Lord Quill (Chris Pratt), 
who was abducted by the Ravagers, a group of alien 
thieves, as a young child in 1988. In the present time, 
Peter is a roguish thief and smuggler, who has little 
regard for anybody but himself.
Armed with a few large guns, a face mask, and the 
Walkman he had on him when he was abducted, a 
grown-up Quill is introduced to the audience through a 
mission to steal an orb from a deserted planet.
The ?lms score lends a dark and serious tone to the 
scene as space technology beeps and whirs in the 
background. The planet is empty, but a hologram from 
Quills gear reveals the life he once lived there. The 
music stops and everything is quiet as Peter gets ready 
to go after the orb.
He puts headphones over his ears, attaches the 
Walkman to his belt, and presses play. And the mood is 
shattered as the upbeat sounds of 1974s Come and Get 
Your Love by Redbone ?ll your ears. Quill dances his 
way through the ruins, kicking and shaking to the beat, 
even at one point using a small animal as a microphone.
This is how you know Guardians is different from 
previous Marvel ?lms. Although it covers the same 
ground as all superhero stories, it never takes itself 
too seriously. The humor is more mature than that of, 
say, The Avengers, but also more basic, ?lled with 
inappropriate hand gestures and crude references.
Although Quill is the main focus, the titular guardians 
are rounded out by Gamora (Zoe Saldana), who is sent 
after Quill by her adoptive father, Thanos, to retrieve 
the orb, but ends up trying to keep it out of his hands; 
Drax the Destroyer (Dave Bautista), a warrior who is 
bent on getting revenge on Ronan (Lee Pace), a pawn of 
Thanos, for murdering his family; and the bounty hunter 
team consisting of Rocket (voiced by Bradley Cooper), 
a genetically engineered raccoon, and Groot (voiced by 
Vin Diesel), a humanoid tree.
When they ?rst get together, this ragtag team seems 
more like the villains of a movie than the heroes, but 
they eventually work out the kinks and ?nd their groove 
together.
The plot centers on the orb, which turns out to be a very 
powerful In?nity Stone. Its not complicated, but puts the 
heroes in enough situations to make their end transition 
from enemies to a team believable.
Pratt pulled off a performance that was kind of 
unexpected, if youre familiar with his previous work on 
Parks and Recreation. Quill is like an older brother who 
can be kind of a jerk, but comes through in the end and 
shows his compassion when its really needed.
Space veteran Saldana, who has also held roles in the 
recent Star Trek ?lms and in Avatar, brings much of the 
same to Gamora; a good performance, but one weve 
seen before.
The real props go to Bautista and Diesel, who have taken 
characters that could have been fairly one-dimensional 
but ended up being two of the most compelling 
personalities throughout the ?lm..
Bautistas Drax looks and acts fearsome, thanks to his 
substantial scars and threats of violence. He is also 
incapable of understanding sarcasm or colloquialisms, 
leading to a few comical moments. Bautistas sincere 
performance makes his naivet in language endearing, 
rather than annoying, and his use of brute strength 
shows his compassion for his friends rather than his 
violent character.
Meanwhile, Diesels Groot is a large tree who can 
walk and talk like a human, except he can only say the 
phrase, I am Groot. Diesel manages to infuse his vocal 
performance of the phrase with in?ection and feeling, 
so that each time actually sounds like hes saying 
something different. Groot is the only purely noble 
character, as he chooses throughout the ?lm to only 
use his incredible strength to help his friends and only 
through violence when absolutely necessary.
Despite the banality of the humor at points, Guardians 
of the Galaxy is one of the most heartfelt Marvel ?lms to 
date. Here, the heroes seek to do good not because they 
think its their duty, but because its the right thing to 
do. Personal goals are pushed aside in favor of the group, 
and civilization ends up winning.
Filled with music from the 1970s and 1980s and pop 
culture references from the same, the ?lm still manages 
to feel lighthearted. For a superhero movie that will make 
you laugh out loud and make you leave the theater with 
a smile, Guardians of the Galaxy is a must-see.
Mairad Pettit | Staffwriter
Guardians is unexpectedly light, lovable
Chris Pratt leads a charming cast to another win for Marvels superhero universe 
Courtesy of Red Carpet Report via Wikimedia Commons
Chris Pratt of Parks and Recreation plays Peter Star-Lord Quill in Marvels Guardians of the Galaxy. 

---------------------------------------------------

music
pillbox 08.25.1498music
pillbox 08.25.14
Summer music festivals have been seeing a steady 
growth in popularity over the past few years. Events 
such as Coachella and Bonnaroo, once only on the 
calendars of jam-band freaks and neo-hippies, have 
grown into hundred-thousand person strong blowouts, 
attracting attendees from across the entire spectrum 
of the American college-aged population. Bros in tanks 
and crunchy granola hippies, Bear Stearns interns and 
Starbucks baristas  music festivals have become the 
one place they all congregate as equals.
Given the wide range of personalities, music festivals 
can also provide a lot of insight into the quirks of our 
society, as well as a few good lessons that may be 
impossible to learn in any other setting. That being said, 
I present to you ?ve important things Ive learned from 
music festivals. Enjoy.
Totems are the greatest method of 
communication, ever.
The totem, an identifying object that primarily serves 
a practical purpose of replacing cell phones, is also a 
great example of the kind of creative self-expression that 
hovers in the atmosphere around a music festival.
Some tend to forget the fact that many of these festivals 
are based around camping in the middle of nowhere, 
which means that within 6-12 hours your handheld 
connection to all of human civilization will be nothing 
more than a useless piece of metal and plastic. Once 
digital communication fails, then all thats left are the 
kind of primitive methods used for most of human 
history. A large totem that sticks a few feet in the air can 
serve as a moving rallying point; if you get separated 
from your group (which you undoubtedly will), then just 
scan the crowd for your groups work of art on a stick.
One of the cool things about totems is the vibe they 
bring to shows, almost to the point that looking for and 
commenting upon totems becomes part of the overall 
festival experience. Some personal favorites I have 
seen include a picture of N*Syncs Lance Bass with the 
words Drop the Bass written across the bottom, and 
an umbrella adorned with lights to make it resemble a 
glowing jelly?sh.
Rain is a powerful spiritual force.
Mid-Julys Hudson Project festival in upstate New 
York, held on the same site as Woodstock 94  the 
only reincarnation of the famed festival that can hold a 
conversation with the original Woodstock  had one of 
the best and most diverse lineups of the entire summer, 
but was unfortunately cut short and, shortly after, 
descended into semi-primitive, quasi-chaos.
While there were certain logistical issues that were 
within the control of the organizers  Porta Potties 
shouldnt be placed on top of a hill if theyre meant to 
operate for four days straight, and allowing state troopers 
to ride horses through the campgrounds will invariably 
lead to more than a few people needing tetanus shots 
 it was their inaugural year, and Id love to meet the 
person who does everything right the ?rst time, every 
time.
No, good ol Mother Nature decided to take a dump 
in organizer MCPs Cheerios when she unleashed a 
killer storm on Winston Farm roughly four hours before 
headliner Bassnectar was set to take the stage for his 
sonically unopposed Sunday night set. I was standing in 
the crowd before rapper Isaiah Rashad when the music 
cut out suddenly and a pre-recorded voice announced 
that everyone should return to their campsites and that 
the music was cancelled for the day. About twenty 
minutes later, the rain came.
Given the ?nancial realities of attending these festivals 
 entrance alone will run you around $225, plus food, 
camping supplies, gas, and everything else to fuel your 
weekend of mayhem  its extremely unlikely that any 
of these so-called hippies are actual hippies. These are 
people who work regular jobs, whom you pass on the 
street, and perhaps even hold a door open for. Theyre 
all normal people, and what do normal people do when 
they ?nd themselves caught in a rainstorm? They strip 
naked and go mud sliding. Im not saying everyone did 
this; some people got naked to just stand in one place 
and stare in awe at the angry God of the Sky and some 
people went mud sliding without getting naked  I 
include myself in the latter category. The naked dude 
whom I collided with going down the mud hill probably 
packed up his car the next day and went back to his 
marketing job, ready to give his weekly report to the 
boss, and maybe be the nice guy who changes the coffee 
pot on Monday. He likely doesnt let all of his glorious, 
muddy self out for the world to see very often, but it was 
raining, and the rain (somehow) made everything okay.
Five things I learned from music festivals
In which a music a?cionado explores the life lessons discovered at summer festivals
Once upon a time, music festivals were populated 
by hippies and cult-like jam bandfollowers. But the 
times,they are a-changing. Now, music festivals 
are for everyone.
                  Courtesy of Saundi Wilson via Flickr
by Joey Peiser | Pillbox Editor[]
Pro?ling isnt just a racial thing.
If youre like me and think that Americas deep-seated 
issues with institutionalized racism are a dark spot in 
our culture, then Im sure reading the news this summer 
also made you upset. From Eric Garner suffocating 
after being put in a chokehold for selling untaxed 
cigarettes, to the recent shooting death of Michael 
Brown in Ferguson, Mo., this summer was ablaze with 
instances of racial pro?ling in?uencing the actions of law 
enforcement of?cials.
While not on the same scale or in?uenced by forces 
anywhere near the legacy of slavery, the society of a 
summer music festival also has its own persecuted and 
pro?led group: the person who looks like the kind of 
person who we always see portrayed in movies as the 
person who does a lot of drugs. Like pro?led people at 
an airport, this person will often encounter some issues 
at the security check, whether it be a more thorough 
pat down, the third degree of questioning from a state 
trooper over an EpiPen for their allergies, or to simply 
have their bags and person sniffed at by a K9.
The astounding thing is that some of those people who 
choose to dress like a cross between Tommy Chong 
after a week in Mexico and the Unabomber actually do 
end up arrested. See, when festival security performs 
their contraband search, their main targets are people 
intending to sell drugs at the festival and not necessarily 
the nervous looking college student who brought a joint 
for when Pretty Lights plays at midnight.
This helps prevent stupid people from doing stupid 
things like buying Schedule I narcotics from a guy 
they just met standing in line for the Porta Pottie and 
becoming the subject of a Monday morning news 
headline.
I just cant help but wonder why so many of these drug 
dealers try to make it through security looking like 
a stereotypical drug dealer, and then act completely 
?abbergasted when the cops pull them out of line, 
bring over their nice little puppy, and calmly explain to 
them that the life theyd once known is over and their 
new life as a convicted felon is about to begin. Isnt 
it drug-dealing 101 to not attract attention to ones 
self, especially by looking like a drug dealer? Perhaps 
Im sitting on some revolutionary, industry-changing 
knowledge here.
People will seemingly say anything if its in singa-long fashion.
Note: I am not condoning the use of racist, misogynistic, 
or any other demeaning language in any context, but 
merely commenting upon an existing phenomenon.
One constant critique of rap music is its general 
complete disregard for political correctness. Due to 
raps popularity, songs that contain messages of sexism, 
racism, homophobia  to varying degrees of severity, 
of course  often ?nd their way onto the Top 40 chart, 
and therefore into the ears of nearly all participants in 
our entertainment culture. One doesnt necessarily need 
to buy into these messages in order to enjoy the music 
 I can still enjoy a Lil Wayne song despite ?nding 
his misogynistic imagery and promotion of opiate use 
unnecessary for an artist of his ability  for they are 
simply unalterable aspects of songs that are enjoyable for 
many other reasons.
That being said, seeing a rapper live can often create a 
deep crisis of conscience for fans torn between singing 
along to every word they know, and not wanting to 
vocalize phrases that perpetuate cultural cycles of 
oppression and disrespect. At least thats what I thought 
would happen, but it appears that no one actually cares 
at all.
Kanye West had 12,000 Governors Ball attendees  
of all skin colors  screaming the response to M.J. 
gone from All of the Lights back to him in complete 
con?dence; Kendrick Lamar had the ladies shouting 
about what she wants when he performed his verse off 
Problems at Hudson Project; Eminem at Osheaga had 
40,000 Canadians singing along to Kill You, the lyrics of 
which would probably give a 100 percent purely sociallyprogressive and paci?st brain an aneurysm.
Similar to the power of the falling water from the sky, 
theres just something about being part of a huge crowd, 
with everyone participating and sharing in the music, 
that causes people to abandon their constructed sense 
of social and cultural decency. I wonder what Freud 
wouldve had to say about the crowd at a Flatbush 
ZOMBiES performance.
Good music is the cure for all of lifes ills, aches, 
and pains.
A single day at a music festival is truly a test of 
endurance probably on par with a triathlon (Editors 
Note: I have never done a triathlon). Youre out in the hot 
sun, with very little shade or places to sit, for an entire 
day. Once the sun goes down, youre offered some relief 
from the heat, but theres still the headliners, late night 
acts, and a whole days worth of built-up tiredness to 
power through. Then you get up the next day and do it 
all over again, and then you do it all over again one more 
time.
While there are many ways to boost your stamina during 
the day  plenty of water and keeping granola bars 
on hand are pretty great  nothing replenishes spent 
vitality quite like a great set. Once the opening notes 
of the artist you came to see start roaring out of those 
speakers, its as if you suddenly took a shower in the 
Fountain of Youth. That stinging sunburn? Gone. Those 
rocks rolling around in your left sneaker? Disappeared. 
Lotus at Moonrise wiped away painful experiences of a 
lost phone, a lost mind, and a stomach angry with me for 
only feeding it greasy Vietnamese food for two days.
Courtesy of Grif?n Technology via Flickr
Top: Thanks to that totem, their group staying together might be a plausability.
Left: Festival attendees are just regular people. You 
may hire one of these folks to do your taxes someday. 
Courtesy of Leonard Nevarez via Flickr

---------------------------------------------------

10art
pillbox 08.25.14
If youre a returning student, its probably been some 
time since your last Carnegie Museum of Art (CMOA) 
visit. Or maybe youve never been and you have a 
perpetually busy schedule to blame. Maybe youre a 
?rst-year student looking to explore the several free, 
convenient opportunities to view art in Oakland.
If youre debating a museum trip  or if youve never 
even thought to go  a visit to the CMOA is well worth 
the 10-minute walk from campus down Forbes Avenue, 
especially for two fascinating and soon-to-be-over 
exhibits currently on display.
Small Prints, Big Artists: Masterpieces from the 
Renaissance to Baroque and Faked, Forgotten, Found: 
Five Renaissance Paintings Investigated, both of which 
run through Sep. 15, are pretty different. Small Prints 
is understated and displays a high volume of artwork; 
Faked, Forgotten, Found only features four paintings, 
but its characterized by rich historical information and 
hyperbolic descriptions.
Despite their differences, both exhibits are equally worth 
seeing. Whether youre a ?ne arts enthusiast or a casual 
museum goer, youll want a trip to the CMOA on your 
agenda in the next three weeks.
Small Prints, Big Artists
Small Prints, Big Artists showcases over 200 highlighted 
works from the CMOAs collection of over 8,000 prints. 
The prints are small and almost exclusively black and 
white, but they are arranged thoughtfully  strategically 
spaced on walls washed in mild orange-yellows and dark 
blue-grays. They are also grouped by historical period, 
with concise but illuminating text providing useful 
historical background.
According to those descriptions, printing began in the 
mid-15th century as a means of illustrating religious 
texts with devotional images. By the turn of the 16th 
century, it had ?ourished into a new art form. The 
exhibit highlights four printing techniques  woodcut, 
engraving, etching, and drypoint  each of which 
involves a different artistic process and set of tools.
Standout artists include early German engraver and 
Renaissance pioneer Albrecht Drer with his wider 
gradient, compositional depth, and dramatically 
depicted subjects ranging from religious to fantastical to 
everyday.
Theres also 17th-century Dutchman Rembrandt 
van Rijn, with his impressionistic etchings: Their 
composition is simple, but their strokes are rich and 
layered, as in his powerful, eye-drawing masterwork 
The Great Jewish Bride. And there is Giovanni Battista 
Piranesi, an 18th-century Italian visionary who sketched 
architecturally elaborate, beautifully oppressive prisonlike structures drawn purely from his imagination.
At ?rst inspection, the exhibit isnt particularly earth 
shattering. The color palette is modest, and as the 
exhibit name promises, the prints are indeed small. 
But this exhibit rewards the curious wanderer: If you 
have the patience to dwell on the details and notice the 
nuances between artists and periods, youll ?nd yourself 
more engaged than you might have guessed, and graced 
by tokens of some of the greatest names in printmaking 
history.
Faked, Forgotten, Found
Its surprising that any curator could craft a rich, 
engaging exhibit featuring only four centuries-old 
paintings, but Faked, Forgotten, Found achieves just 
that.
The exhibit space is quite small, nestled behind the 
Small Prints exhibit and con?ned to only one moderately 
sized room. In the space, colorful interactive timelines 
cover the outer walls, relaying the geographical, political, 
and forensic journeys these paintings endured over 
their hundreds of years of existence. An inner, circular 
structure at the center of the room holds the paintings 
themselves.
The descriptions are intentionally over the top in 
their attempt to dramatize the historical events that 
conceived and surrounded these paintings. The numberone featured painting, Alessandro Alloris 1570s Portrait 
of Isabella deMedici, is lavishly described as a longlost portrait of a scandalous Medici princess  the 
Paris Hilton of Renaissance Florence.
But viewers soon ?nd that the fascinating stories of 
these paintings really do match their embellished 
descriptions. After appearances in Vienna and Victorian 
London, the Isabella deMedici portrait sat in CMOA 
storage for 31 years until curator Lulu Lippincott  
originally thinking it was a fake  discovered the 
painting was actually a valuable original.
The other paintings have similarly wild stories. In 1954, 
there were two rival versions of Francesco Raibolinis 
Madonna and Child with Angel circulating in the art 
world; between 1973 and 2009, the CMOA acquired 
both paintings and con?rmed which of the two was the 
carefully traced copy. Meanwhile, the CMOA awaits a 
German court case that will determine the fate of Jan 
Rombouts the Elders 16th-century The Birth of Saint 
John the Baptist, which was allegedly stolen from its 
owners, Holocaust victims who ?ed Nazi Germany in 
the 1930s. And ?nally, CMOA curators still dont know 
whether they possess Hans Holbein the Youngers 1534 
Portrait of George Nevill or a convincing 1900 fake.
Faked, Forgotten, Found will entirely suck you in. Its an 
exhibit that values quality over quantity, leading visitors 
to dwell for 20 minutes on individual paintings that 
otherwise, for the untrained viewer, might get only a 
moments glance. The experience is well worth those 
20 minutes: Youll leave with a new appreciation for the 
treacherous circumstances a painting can survive and 
the experts who investigate and restore these pieces to 
determine which is the fake and which is the real deal.
So, yes  when seen one after the other, Small Prints 
and Faked, Forgotten, Found provide a diverse but 
complementary experience. Together, they demonstrate 
how two different approaches to displaying art can 
result in two equally well executed exhibits, and both 
exemplify the kind of thoughtful, information-rich exhibit 
that visitors have come to expect from the Carnegie 
Museums.
Rachel Cohen | Publisher 
Catch these eye-opening exhibits while you can
Two special collections at the nearby Carnegie Museum of Art will soon be closing
Faked, Forgotten, Found is as much about the story 
of the paintings as about the paintings themselves.
Rachel Cohen | Publisher

---------------------------------------------------

comics
pillbox 08.25.1411
Anatomy of Films by Wrong Hands
 wronghands1.wordpress.com
Facial Hair by Reza Farazmand
poorlydrawnlines.com

---------------------------------------------------

12comics
pillbox 08.25.14
Messaging by DogHouse Diaries
General Problem by xkcd
press@xkcd.comxkcd.com
doghousediaries@gmail.comthedoghousediaries.com

---------------------------------------------------

puzzles
pillbox 08.25.1413
Solutions from Aug.17
CrosswordTough DifficultyTough Difficulty
Maze Puzzle: ChallengingSudoku Puzzle: Super Tough
Sudoku courtesy of www.krazydad.comMaze courtesy of www.krazydad.com
Start from the top left arrow and find your way out of the 
maze on the bottom right.
Fill all empty squares using numbers 1 to 9 so the sum of 
each row equals the clue on its left, and the sum of each 
column equals the clue on its top. No number may be used 
in the same row or column more than once.

---------------------------------------------------

14horoscopes
pillbox 08.25.14
 1. Damon of Good Will Hunting
 2. Contented sighs
 3. Faithful
 4. Male offspring
 5. Lay beneath
 6. Horror film reaction
 7. Bodybuilders pride
 8. Afflict
 9. Sideways
10. ___ de corps
11. Reprimand
12. Egg exterior
13. Color anew
18. Singer Fitzgerald
23. Quartz variety
24. Aliens, briefly
25. Read quickly
26. Hill toy
27. Top-notch
28. Former Fords
29. Keep an ___ the ground
33. ___ Blanc
34. Poker stake
35. RR stops
38. Class
39. Assistant, particularly to heads of state 
40. Great energy
43. Res ___ loquitur
46. Use, consume
48. Intolerance
49. More nasty
50. Some nest eggs
51. Waterlogged soil
52. Take the honey and run
53. Chucked weapon
56. A ___ formality
57. 1972 Kentucky Derby winner ___ Ridge
58. Opposite of odd, especially when 
applied to numbers
59. Frobe who played Goldfinger
62. Non-dairy milk
63. Peg used on the first in golf
 1. Island in the East China Sea
 6. Room
11. Georgia, once: Abbr.
14. Homerun king Hank
15. Theyve got something coming
16. Friend of Fidel
17. Crash of thunder
19. Brit. lexicon
20. Mao ___-tung
21. New Haven students
22. Umbrella
24. Author ___ Stanley Gardner
25. Cheat
26. Capital of Utah
30. ___ luck!
31. Small batteries
32. December day, briefly
36. Wrap up
37. Longed for
41. Canadian prov.
42. Rickys portrayer
44. Three sheets to the wind
45. Nosy Parker
47. Prevails
51. Communication
54. Part of Q.E.D.
55. Llama relative
56. Polite address
57. Rule, for short
60. Caviar
61. Callous
64. Health haven
65. Tally
66. Cut off
67. That girl
68. Gangster Lansky
69. Intended
ACROSSDOWN
Horoscopes
aries
march 21april 19
Theres a prospect of stocking up on last-minute supplies 
in Pittsburgh. Must-have items include new tennis shoes, a 
cool pair of jeans and athletic gear.
taurus
april 20may 20
Time to say goodbye to lazy summer days and clean up 
the wardrobe for back to school. Theres still time to find an 
alarm clock and new shoes (always wise investments).
gemini
may 21june 21
Missing something? New notebooks and high-speed 
Internet connection are on the top of the list this year.
cancer
june 22july 22
Its a good idea to treat yourself to more room accessories 
like mirrors and hanging baskets. Dont forget a photo 
frame and some new craft supplies.
leo
july 23aug. 22 
A new hairstyle may be the best way to go for Leo. Dont 
forget to throw in a pair of movie star sunglasses.
virgo
aug. 23sept. 22
When it comes to clothing, jeans, cords, tees, and buttondowns cannot be overlooked. Run over to Walnut Street for 
some back-to-school shopping.
libra
sept. 23oct. 22
People with the Libra sign look at school as an opportunity 
to socialize. Notebooks with eye-catching designs that 
inspire conversation are right up your alley.
scorpio
oct. 23nov. 21
Although you may be reluctant to start classes today, 
make sure you have a sturdy backpack to stash all of 
your supplies. For clothing, look for dark colors, hooded 
sweatshirts and layered pieces.
sagittarius
nov. 22dec. 21
Keep things simple and stock up on some T-shirts and 
caps. However, dont forget to throw in a nicer outfit for 
date nights or special occasions.
capricorn
dec. 22jan. 19
Havent already updated your laptop or phone to keep up 
with the new trends? Theres still time.
aquarius
jan. 20feb. 18
Try to be more inventive with your fashion for the beginning 
of school. Buy some original style clothing and hair sprays. 
Or do something crazy and dye your hair.
pisces
feb. 19march 20
The start of school never means joy for Pisces, but treat 
yourself to some nice tunes, and headsets, and youll be 
set for school.
Maryyann Landlord | Comics Editor
Crossword courtesy of BestCrosswords.com

---------------------------------------------------

calendar
pillbox 08.25.1415
TUESDAY 8.26.14
Dwayne Dolphin. Agnes Katz Plaza. 5 p.m.
Local jazz bassist and current Adjunct Professor of Jazz 
at Duquesne University will be giving a free performance 
in the Agnes Katz Plaza in Downtown Pittsburgh on Penn 
Avenue. Dolphin has worked on a number of impressive 
musical projects, including Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre and 
popular music artist Nancy Wilson.
WEDNESDAY 8.27.14
Slightly Stoopid. Stage AE. 8 p.m.
Chilled-to-the-max, reggae/ska-inspired rock group 
Slightly Stoopid will be bringing their whiteboy grooves to 
Stage AE. Hardcore punk-infused mariachi band Mariachi 
El Bronx will be opening.Tickets start at $31 and can be 
purchased at ticketmaster.com
FRIDAY 8.29.14
Open Mic Night. Future Tenant, 819 Penn Ave. 7 p.m.
Drop by to check out some great local talent, or step to 
the mic yourself and show everyone what youve got. For 
more information, visit futuretenant.org. Admission is free 
and open to the public.
Kings of Leon. First Niagara Pavilion. 8 p.m.
Dont you know I could really use some... Kings of Leon. 
The southern garage rockers will be helping to close 
out the summer with their beer-soaked anthems and 
good-ol-boy charm. Altrockers Young the Giant will be 
opening. Tickets start at $38.50 and can be purchased at 
llivenation.com.
Beauty Slap. Brillobox. 8 p.m.
This musical project blends together electronic production 
with live horn and guitar instrumentation to create a 
knockout live sound. Featuring Carnegie Mellon studentproducer Jakeisrain as well as members of the School 
of Musics C Street Brass, this fresh sound isnt to be 
missed. Tickets are $8 and can be purchased at the door.
SUNDAY 8.31.14
X. The Altar Bar. 8 p.m.
Los Angeles hardcore punk elder statesmen X will be 
playing the Altar Bar. Expect politically incorrect and 
radical statements in between songs. Tickets start at $25 
and can be purchased at ticket?y.com
ONGOING
La Cour des Miracles. Wood Street Galleries. Through 
Sep. 7.
This exhibition uses robots to simulate a walk through a 
mental institution. Each robot is programmed to display 
common symptoms and psychosis, as well as to respond 
to passerbys to create a chillingly real experience. 
Admission to the Wood Street Galleries is free.
Cataloguing Pattern. SPACE Gallery. Through Sunday.
This exhibition, featuring works by a wide array of artists 
across various mediums, explores the nature of patterns 
and their calming psychological effect. Admission to the 
SPACE Gallery is free and open to the public.
Monotype Prints: An Exploration of Color. 709 Penn 
Gallery. Through Sep. 3.
Inspired by artist Jo-Anne Batess travels in South Africa, 
these colorful works are in?uenced by the land, clothing, 
and people she encountered. Admission to the 709 Penn 
Gallery is free and open to the public.
Small Prints, Big Artists. Carnegie Museum of Art.
Through Sep. 15.
This exhibit highlights four printing techniques  
woodcut, engraving, etching, and drypoint  each of 
which involves a different artistic process and set of tools.
RACE: Are We So Different? Carnegie Museum of 
Natural History. Through Oct. 27.
This exhibit explores the experience of living with race in 
America, using interactive multimedia components.
compiled by Joey Peiser | Pillbox Editor
Want your event here?
Email calendar@thetartan.org.
Classifieds
Want To Get Well Paid To Shop? 
Mystery Shoppers Needed. Contact: 
ryanmartinez44@outlook.com, for more 
details
Medical and heart care, Board Certi?ed, 
155 N Craig, Dean Kross, MD 412.687.7666 
Expedited scheduling for students to be 
seen by the doctor.

---------------------------------------------------

16feature
pillbox 08.25.14
Kelsey Scott | Staff Photographer
First-year students living in the Residence On Fifth were clad in pink 
JuREZic Park gear as they stormed the cut on Friday evening for 
Orientation Weeks culminating event: House Wars.
Editors note: Kelsey Scott is a resident assistant in Morewood Gardens.
house wars.
