Carnegie Mellons student newspaper since 1906
thetartan.org
@thetartan
April 14, 2014
Volume 108, Issue 24
UC renamed after CohonOlympus showcases entrepreneurs
BRENT HEARD
Contributing Editor
Carnegie Mellon University held the naming ceremony 
for the Jared L. Cohon University Center midday Friday 
in Kirr Commons of the University Center. The event was 
well-attended, with faculty, 
administrators, staff, and students standing to watch the 
ceremony.
Current university President Subra Suresh and members of the universitys board 
of trustees were all in attendance in the dedication to 
former university President 
and current university professor of civil and environmental 
engineering and engineering and public policy Jared 
Cohon. The Soundbytes a 
capella group opened the 
ceremony and were followed by a brief bagpipe 
performance.
Dean of Student Affairs 
Gina Casalegno then took the 
stage, announcing I couldnt 
be more pleased to join in 
this celebration of Jared L. 
Cohon, continuing, I am so 
grateful that my ?rst three 
years of deanship were under 
[Cohon]s leadership.
Casalegno called the University Center a hub for student engagement and a 
place for our diverse community to gather and learn about 
self, each other, the world 
around us, and to gain new 
perspectives. Casalegno explained how, during Cohons 
tenure as university President, the number of student 
organizations doubled from 
140 to 280. She referred to the 
University Center as a place 
where students can take refuge from their stresses, often 
at the black chairs, which was 
the location for this event.
The announcement that 
the new University Center 
would be named after Cohon 
was made through a campuswide email in March, which 
explained that the University 
Center will be expanded and 
renovated over the course of 
the next two years. The message explained, In keeping 
with CMUs tradition of naming buildings for past presidents, the University Center 
will be named in recognition 
of Dr. Cohons many contributions to the success of the 
university, its students, faculty, and staff during his 16 
years as president, adding, 
As the center of campus life, 
the Cohon University Center 
will be an enduring and ?tting tribute to Dr. Cohons extraordinary personal engagement with students and his 
leadership style that focused 
on bringing diverse groups 
GEORGE LEDERMAN
Staffwriter
An array of Carnegie Mellon start-ups were on display 
at Project Olympus 18th 
Show and Tell last Thursday. 
From providing essential nutrients to solving crossword 
puzzles, each of the concepts 
used technology in novel 
ways.
The event, which took 
place in the University Centers McConomy Auditorium, 
featured distinguished professors and alumni, as well 
as students and staff. The 
program highlighted a small 
selection of the many entrepreneurial activities within 
Carnegie Mellon.
Illah Nourbakhsh, a professor in the Robotics Institute and the director of the 
CREATE lab, discussed his 
efforts to empower people to 
take charge of environmental issues by arming them 
with data. Nourbakhsh has 
made inexpensive air quality sensors and water quality 
sensors, which are particularly useful for residents near 
fracking sites. We want technology which is inherently 
creative, said Nourbaksh, 
who feels his sensors will lead 
to public discourse supported by data.
Boris Sofman (SCS 05) 
presented the most commercially successful product of 
the event, Anki Drive. Sofman 
launched his ?rst project, a 
cyber-physical racing game, 
last year. Users race on their 
iOS devices while physical 
cars move around a track. Sofman discussed the launch of 
the product at Apples famed 
World Wide Developers Conference last year, and showed 
a soon-to-be released advertisement. His product is currently sold at all Apple stores 
throughout North America.
Project Olympus awards 
exceptional entrepreneurs 
with Project Oriented Business Exploration (PROBE) 
grants, which include a 
$50,000 investment and additional mentorship. Three 
awardees presented their 
work, including Elijah May?eld (SCS13), who founded 
Lightside; Mary Beth Wilson 
(CIT 13), who founded Innovesca; and Daniel Gorziglia, a 
sophomore in electrical and 
computer engineering, who 
founded AssignLink.
Many of the entrepreneurs 
presenting attributed much of 
their success to Kit Needham, 
the associate director.
I really leaned on Kit for 
lots of business mentorship, 
said Wilson in an interview 
after the show. I have an 
engineering background  
Spring Carnival kicks off with Midway Opening Ceremony
CHRIS GALVIN
Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellon students, 
faculty, and alumni, as well 
as members of the surrounding community gathered in 
the Morewood parking lot on 
Thursday afternoon for the 
of?cial kickoff of Spring Carnival, the Midway Opening 
Ceremony.
The ceremony featured 
speeches from Head of Booth 
and senior information systems major Rachel Crown, 
Dean of Student Affairs Gina 
Casalegno, university President Subra Suresh, Pittsburgh 
Mayor Bill Peduto, and Spring 
Carnival Committee Co-Chairs 
senior lighting design major 
Jackson Gallagher and senior 
statistics major Emily Hrin, 
with the rest of the members 
of the Spring Carnival Committee watching from scaffolding behind them.
Many of the speakers acknowledged Carnivals importance to the university community, a nod to the fact that 
this is Carnegie Mellons 100th 
Carnival.
Carnival is a tradition 
we all hold very dear in our 
hearts, Hrin said. Carnival has existed for a hundred 
years while the university has 
lasted for about 110. So Carnival started very early on in this 
universitys life.
Theres one common 
theme that stands true 
throughout the last hundred 
years of Carnival in that it is 
the time for the entire campus 
body to come together, unite, 
and have a weekend of fun 
and excitement, Gallagher 
said.
I didnt realize how important the hundred year anniversary was until [Hrin] said 
that Carnegie Mellons only 
been around for 110 years, 
said sophomore mechanical 
engineering major Deepak 
Gopalakrishnan. After watching the ceremony, I understand why its a big deal, why 
the hundred year anniversary 
is so important.
Other speakers remarked 
on the varied traditions of 
Carnival and their evolution 
over time, mentioning Buggy, 
Booth, plank jousting, circuses, canoe tilts, and bear 
wrestling.
See KICKOFF, A3
See OLYMPUS, A5See RENAMING, A4
Anne-Sophie Kim/Assistant Layout Manager
Spring Carnival 2014 Review: Best of the Best
Mobot races  A8Buggy recap  A12Boothy Awards  B8

---------------------------------------------------

SUNDAY
High / Low
61 / 43
A2  thetartan.org/news The Tartan  April 14, 2014
Corrections & Clari?cations
If you would like to submit a correction or clari?cation, 
please email The Tartan at news@thetartan.org or 
editor@thetartan.org with your inquiry, as well as the 
date of the issue and the name of the article. We will 
print the correction or clari?cation in the next print 
issue and publish it online.
NEWS IN BRIEF
Holi paints Flagstaff Hill with color
WEATHER
Assisting an outside 
agency
April 7, 2014
University Police responded to South Bouquet Street 
and Robert Clemente Drive to 
assist the University of Pittsburgh Police, who had cited 
two Carnegie Mellon students 
for disorderly conduct after 
they unlawfully removed a 
No Parking sign from a public street. 
Disorderly conduct
April 7, 2014
University Police were summoned to the Spring Carnival 
Midway after multiple reports 
of a student failing to follow 
Carnival protocol regulations 
while working on his organizations booth. The student 
had struck another student 
with a shoe, and was escorted 
from Midway and cited for disorderly conduct.
Laptop Theft
April 9, 2014
A Carnegie Mellon student 
called University Police after he noticed that his Apple 
Macbook Pro was missing 
around 7:40 p.m.; he had left 
his laptop unattended in his 
backpack in the University 
Centers Kirr Commons. University Police are investigating 
the incident.
Alcohol Amnesty
April 10, 2014
University Police and CMU 
EMS were summoned to the 
Greek Quadrangle after receiving reports of an intoxicated female student. No citations were issued since this 
incident was covered under 
the Alcohol Amnesty policy.
University Police and CMU 
EMS were summoned to Stever House later that day for a 
second incident covered under 
Alcohol Amnesty.
Public drunkenness
April 10, 2014
A Carnegie Mellon student 
was cited for public drunkenness after a Carnegie Mellon 
security of?cer called University Police when he saw the 
student being carried into 
West Wing. After the student 
was cited, he was released into 
the care of his sober friend.
Assisting an outside 
agency
April 10, 2014
A Carnegie Mellon student 
was cited by Pittsburgh Police 
for disorderly conduct and littering. University Police were 
requested to help disperse 30 
to 50 individuals at the students house on Beeler Street. 
Underage drinking
April 10, 2014
Five students were cited for 
underage drinking after University Police responded to the 
fourth ?oor of Stever House.
University Police and 
CMU EMS also responded to 
the Carnival Comedy Show, 
where a spectator was cited 
for underage drinking and 
given medical attention.
Assisting an outside 
agency
April 11, 2014
Two police of?cers on patrol on Beeler Street stopped 
to check on a student who 
was unsteady on his feet. The 
intoxicated student was given 
the necessary medical attention and cited for underage 
drinking.
Public drunkenness
April 11, 2014
A visibly intoxicated Carnegie Mellon student was cited 
for public drunkenness and 
given medical attention after 
a security of?cer on patrol 
found him on Margaret Morrison Street.
Campus Crime & Incident Reports: April 7April 11
Abhinav Gautam/Staff Photographer
Holi, a springtime Hindu festival in which revelers throw colored powder at each other, took place on Saturday at Flagstaff Hill in Schenley Park. After 
eating a meal of Indian Food, participants bought bags of colored powder and celebrated the holiday, which actually took place on March 17. 
Source: www.weather.com
FEATURE PHOTO
A university-wide email 
from university President 
Subra Suresh on April 8 announced that Mark Kamlet, 
university provost and executive vice president, is stepping down from his post and 
returning as faculty effective 
at the end of the academic 
year on July 1.
According to the email, 
Kamlet has been a consummate university citizen in 
taking on numerous assignments in addition to his primary role as the chief academic of?cer.
Suresh said in the email 
that the university will soon 
begin a national search for 
a new provost and executive 
vice president. Until then, 
the Dr. Frederick A. Schwertz 
distinguished professor of biological sciences Nathan Urban will serve as the interim 
provost.
Urban has worked at 
Carnegie Mellon since 2002, 
after four years as a research 
fellow at the Max-Planck Institute for Medical Research 
in Heidelberg, Germany.
John Lehoczsky, dean 
of the Dietrich College of 
Humanities and Social Sciences since 2000, will be the 
interim executive vice president. Lehoczsky has been 
working at Carnegie Mellon 
after receiving his doctoral 
degree from Stanford University in 1969 and served 
as department head of the 
statistics department from 
19841995.
As a dean, he has had 
a substantial impact on the 
university through many activities, including his leadership of the Dietrich College 
Humanities Initiative, which 
comprises the Humanities 
Scholars Program, the Center 
for the Arts in Society, and 
the Humanities Center, the 
email said.
Urban and Lechoczsky 
will take up their interim 
roles on July 1.
Kamlet steps down as provost, vice president
CMU awarded $1.54 billion in patent dispute
On March 9, 2009 Carnegie Mellon ?led a lawsuit 
against Marvell Technology Group, Ltd. and Marvell 
Semiconductor, Inc. for infringing two Carnegie Mellon patents ?led in the late 
90s, including a chip technology that, according to the 
universitys website, signi?-
cantly improves the ability of 
detectors to more accurately 
detect data stored on hard 
disk drives.
Last week, a U.S. district 
judge Nora Fischer awarded 
Carnegie Mellon $1.54 billion in the suit, which was 
less than the university originally sought.
According to an article for 
ABC News, the Californiabased chipmaking company 
has said that it will appeal 
the ruling as soon as the 
judgment is ?nal. This judgment comes on the heels of 
a 2012 ruling in which a federal jury ruled that Marvell 
willfully violated the universitys patents.
The patents at the center of the dispute were born 
from the work of Jos M.F. 
Moura, a professor of electrical and computer engineering at Carnegie Mellon, and 
then-student Alex Kavcic 
(CIT 98).
FRIDAY
High / Low
69 / 46
SATURDAY
High / Low
62 / 44
TUESDAY
High / Low
49 / 27
WEDNESDAY
High / Low
52 / 34
THURSDAY
High / Low
66 / 38
Compiled by
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
Compiled by
BRIAN TRIMBOLI

---------------------------------------------------

Sara Remi Fields/Assistant Photo Editor
University President Subra Suresh and Pittsburgh Mayor Bill Peduto spoke during the Midway Opening Ceremony on Thursday (left). The bagpipe band celebrated Carnegie Mellons Scottish heritage (right). 
April 14, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/news  A3
[Booth] is only the beginning of what carnival has to 
offer, Casalegno said. This 
year, and like in the past several years, booth is a representation of the ways that Carnival 
has grown over the last hundred years.
[Carnival] is a celebration 
of everything that is CMU, 
through the buggies, and the 
booths ... and everything else 
that is a part of it that brings 
the alumni and the community back, Peduto said.
Many speakers commented 
on the pride in Carnegie Mellon and fellow students that 
Spring Carnival generates.
[Carnival] is the best 
weekend to be a Tartan at 
Carnegie Mellon, Casalegno 
said.
In a uniquely Carnegie 
Mellon way, this event also 
brings together the creative 
spirit of the Carnegie Mellon 
community, Suresh said.
Carnivals ability to connect 
Carnegie Mellon students and 
alumni with the surrounding 
Pittsburgh neighborhoods and 
foster a sense of community 
was also a popular topic.
Carnival is one of the city 
of Pittsburghs longest running traditions, Peduto said. 
It is something that not only 
includes the university but the 
community as well.
In addition to being a tradition, the Carnival has also 
evolved over the last several 
years as the main focal point 
to connect with the region and 
the city, Suresh said.
Each speaker thanked the 
Spring Carnival Committee, 
as well as other members of 
the Carnegie Mellon community, who gave their time and 
efforts into creating this years 
Carnival.
I liked that the Carnival 
Committee was up on the scaffolds during the whole ceremony, said Sloane Macklin, 
a ?rst-year biomedical engineering and material science 
double major. I liked that 
they got recognition for all 
their hard work.
The ceremony concluded 
with the cutting of the ribbon 
to Midways entrance and a 
performance by the Carnegie 
Mellon Kiltie Band.
Lets cut this ribbon and 
get this party started! Peduto 
said.
KICKOFF, from A1
Midway Opening Ceremony ushers in 100th Spring Carnival
Abhinav Gautam/Staff Photographer
Abhinav Gautam/Staff Photographer
University President Subra Suresh (left) and Pittsburgh Mayor Bill Peduto (right) cut the plaid ribbon to of?cially open Midway and begin Carnegie Mellons 100th Spring Carnival. 

---------------------------------------------------

A4  thetartan.org/news The Tartan  April 14, 2014
Greg Hanneman/Senior Staffwriter
The university celebrated the University Centers renaming with a ceremony in Kirr Commons with speakers such as Dean of Student Affairs Gina Casalegno (left) and Jared L. Cohon (right). 
of people together to create 
better outcomes for all.
Vice Chairman of the Board 
of Trustees James Rohr took 
the stage to share a story regarding the search for university president that resulted in 
Cohons selection. He joked 
that the university needed 
to have a unique person as its 
leader, so it made sense to ?nd 
a dean of forestry. Rohr continued, explaining that Carnegie Mellons strengths in both 
the arts and sciences meant it 
needed a president who could 
address both these aspects of 
education.
University Provost and Executive Vice President Mark 
Kamlet spoke of the study 
done under former university 
President Richard Cyert for 
a committee on student life, 
which concluded that the state 
of student life was rather 
devastating. 
It was this committee that 
spearheaded the construction of the University Center, 
which University Center administrator Stanley Krowitz 
said plays an extremely important role for the campus community. Krowitz concluded, 
this will truly be everyones 
home away from home on 
campus.
The event saw a series of 
speakers representing alumni, 
current students, and members of the administration. 
When President Suresh took 
the stage, he remarked, Its 
a great day for the Cohon 
family. Its a great day for the 
university.
During the conclusion of 
the ceremony, Cohon took to 
the stage to receive a plaque 
to be mounted on the University Centers wall and a framed 
picture signed by the employees of the University Center. 
Cohon was then surprised as 
black drapes were lifted from 
the balcony walls to reveal his 
name mounted in letters on 
the University Center wall.
This is kind of overwhelming, Cohon said when he took 
the microphone, giving thanks 
for an unbelievable honor.
Cohon thanked the staff of 
the University Center, saying 
thank you for letting me put 
my name on your building.
I cant thank you enough 
for this incredible honor, he 
concluded.
Ceremony honors Cohon, renames University Center
RENAMING, from A1

---------------------------------------------------

April 14, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/news  A5
Im not a business student. 
Wilsons company processes 
plants grown in sub-Saharan 
Africa, which create jobs in 
an impoverished region, and 
provide more sustainable 
nutrition. Were developing 
ingredients with optimized 
nutrition from underutilized 
plants in developing regions. 
We make use of nutrients in 
food that already exist as opposed to genetically modi?ed 
foods.
Gorziglia had a similar 
appreciation for the work of 
Project Olympus staff. Kit 
Needham is my business adviser. We meet biweekly, he 
said. Project Olympus is really good having you connect 
with people. And these connections have paid off. Assignlink, which offers innovative calendars for students, 
has already been implemented in ?ve schools.
Several current Carnegie 
Mellon students who had 
won TartanHacks competitions also presented their 
entrepreneurial work. Out 
of many projects presented, 
sophomores in computer science Bram Wasti and Michael 
OFarrell, and sophomore 
human-computer interaction and information systems 
double major Stefan Dasbach 
presented a version of RaspberryPi, a computer that costs 
only $35, that could serve as 
an Apple Airport, which costs 
$99. Another project, PuzzelPal, allows users to photograph a crossword puzzle 
with a smartphone. The app 
then solves the entire puzzle. 
Senior computer science major Siddharth Dhulipalla and 
junior computer science majors Jonathan Goldman and 
Harsh Pandey created PuzzlePal. The program ended 
with a speech by Dan Gilman 
(H&SS 04), a Pittsburgh city 
councilman. Gilman said 
he wants to transform Pittsburghs government to make 
it friendlier to the plethora of 
startups which want to stay 
here, but are often lured to 
the west coast due to funding 
and a more functional local 
government. Were behind 
the times in every front, said 
Gilman, but we can lead 
with the technology coming 
out of our schools and our 
hospitals.
In an interview after the 
show, Needham said, I was 
thrilled  its easy to take a 
lot of time to explain things, 
but everyone had only two 
minutes. Needham encouraged more Carnegie Mellon students to work with 
Project Olympus. My goal 
is that anyone who has an 
idea feels comfortable showing up  just to learn. She 
emphasized that the ideas do 
have to be a ?nished product; 
the goal of Project Olympus is 
to help students learn what 
might work in the business 
world.
OLYMPUS, from A1
Project Olympus shows off startups
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
News Editor
Own it.
Thats the advice that Janet Mock had for those trying 
to reconcile their sexuality 
and gender identities.
Mock spoke at Carnegie 
Mellon in Porter Halls Gregg 
Hall as part of her spring book 
tour after publishing Rede?ning Realness: My Path to Womanhood, Identity, Love & So 
Much More earlier this year.
In 2011, then-editor of People magazine, Mock revealed 
in a Marie Claire pro?le that 
she is a trans woman. Mocks 
new place in the public eye 
let her speak openly about 
her experience; Mock is often 
seen as an advocate for trans 
and LGBT rights. 
She wrote Rede?ning Realness to tell the story of her 
upbringing in Honolulu and 
transition  Mock ?ew to 
Thailand alone at the age of 
18 for gender reassignment 
surgery  and the lessons she 
can give to trans youth and 
others like her.
The book talk was moderated by associate professor of 
art Suzie Silver and assistant 
professor of communication 
at the University of Pittsburgh 
Shanara Reid-Brinkley.
Mock spoke about her 
memoir, as well as current issues surrounding trans and 
LGBT rights and identity, responding to questions from 
both the audience and the 
moderators.
Earlier this year, Mock received media attention for her 
responses in a Piers Morgan 
interview that opened with 
him saying, This is the amazing thing about you  had I 
not known your life story, I 
would have absolutely no clue 
that you ever would have been 
born a boy. A male. 
Morgans interview with 
Mock sparked outrage on social media and across the internet until Mock returned to 
Morgans show and corrected 
his perspective on what it 
means to be trans.
When an audience member at Mocks talk asked about 
the experience, she explained 
how she coped, as well as how 
she responded. I unplugged, 
Mock said. I didnt engage in 
social media; I let that all go 
... before the second appearance I prepared myself. I was 
talking to people all day, having conversations about this. I 
knew I was walking into the lions den, so I was prepared for 
that  I had my battle-ready 
dress.
Mock also addressed recent controversy surrounding RuPauls use of the word 
shemale in an episode of 
the show RuPauls Drag Race, 
in which contestants had to 
guess whether pictures of various body parts were female 
or shemale.
Mock acknowledged RuPauls role as a drag icon and 
advocate in her own adolescence, but encouraged a conversation about the blurred 
lines created by the appropriation of anti-trans slurs. I 
lived for RuPaul growing up, 
Mock said. I liked seeing this 
big, black, blonde drag queen 
on Mac billboards and counters as a 12- or 13-year-old; it 
was revolutionary for me and 
my idea of myself and what 
gender was.... But I also think 
there needs to be more conversations and engagements 
with [the drag] community 
about their celebration of 
terms that are used violently 
toward trans women.
Another audience member 
asked Mock how to deal with 
the intersection of race, and 
gender and sexual identity. 
Mock spoke about the grassroots organizations  many 
run by people of color  that 
she works with, such as the 
Audre Lorde project, which 
according to its website is a 
New York City-based Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Two Spirit, 
Trans and Gender Non-Conforming People of Color community organizing center.
I think those [organizations] are models to celebrate 
and speak up, she said. In 
terms of why arent people 
paying attention to this, its 
because they dont care, and 
I think that oftentimes people 
in power just dont care.
Maureen Meyer, a junior 
professional writing major, 
was interested by Mocks narrative. I enjoyed the idea of 
naming yourself as being empowering; I thought that was 
an interesting conversation, 
Meyer said. 
Im also taking a class on 
the rhetoric of narrative this 
semester, and the construction of identity and retroactive signi?cance of everything 
to constructing identity was 
interesting to me.
Mock ended her talk by 
discussing whats next for her. 
After appearing on a HuffPost 
Live segment about trans activism, Mock said she wants to 
create more content and make 
more appearances, as well as 
continue writing  she is going to a month-long womens 
writers residency in August to 
work on her next book, which 
will focus on the aesthetics of 
beauty culture, Mock said.
Mocks talk was organized 
by the Garden of Peace Project, an organization meant 
to increase the emotional, 
mental, physical, and spiritual 
well-being of all people, including the most vulnerable, 
marginalized populations, regardless of sexual orientation, 
gender identity, or gender 
expression of Southwestern 
Pennsylvania, according to 
its website.
Mock talks about Rede?ning Realness
Courtesy of Juston Smith
Janet Mock spoke at Carnegie Mellon about her recently published book and her life as a writer and openly transgender woman. 
My goal is that anyone who 
has an idea feels comfortable 
showing up  just to learn.
 Kit Needham, associate director of 
Project Olympus

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan is a student newspaper at Carnegie Mellon University, funded in part by the student 
activities fee. It is a weekly publication by students during the fall and spring semesters, printed by 
Trib Total Media. The Tartan is not an official publication of Carnegie Mellon University.
The Editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The 
Tartan Editorial Board. Columns, Editorial Cartoons, and Reviews are the opinions of their 
individual creators. The Tartan Editorial Staff reserves the right to withhold from publication 
any copy it deems unfit.
Letters to the Editor are the opinions of their authors. Letters from within the University community take precedence. Letters intended for publication must be signed and include the authors 
address and telephone number for verification; letters must not exceed 350 words. Authors names 
may be withheld from publication upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject 
any letter. Letters must be submitted by 5 p.m. on the Wednesday before publication by mail or to 
forum@thetartan.org.
A6  thetartan.org/forum The Tartan  April 14, 2014
FROM THE EDITORIAL BOARD
Office: University Center 314
Web: www.thetartan.org
E-mail: contact@thetartan.org
Mail:
The Tartan
Box 119, UC Suite 103 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Michelle Wan/Art Editor
Centennial Carnival was resounding success
Aside from a little bit of mizzle  
rain in very ?ne drops, according 
to this years ScotchnSoda musical 
The 25th Annual Putnam Country 
Spelling Bee  the sun shone bright 
on Carnegie Mellons centennial Carnival celebration, which proved to be 
one of the most satisfying Carnivals 
in a long time. 
Carnivals standard fare was all 
solid this year, some of the events 
even taking things up a notch in 
honor of the centennial. The comedy 
show with Hannibal Buress and Tig 
Notaro, which you can read about 
on page B5, was a resounding success; Buress, currently one of Americas most sought-after comedians, 
seemed like he might be out of place 
at a school full of socially awkward 
teenagers, as he called the student 
body, but he played off of that stereotype to produce some amazing 
ad lib. 
The ScotchnSoda production 
was also successful, and President 
Subra Suresh attended for the dinner theater gala performance in honor of the organizations 75th year. 
Sweepstakes was more exciting  
and well-attended   than ever, although some nasty crashes left some 
people injured, one instance leaving 
a driver in the hospital. While Mac 
Miller was a predictable disappointment, Icona Pop delivered a fantastic 
performance.
The Carnival Committee brought 
back some age-old but long-forgotten traditions for the centennial, 
and while some of them were fairly 
entertaining  everyone seemed to 
like the plank jousting over a mud 
pit  they were not advertised well 
to the current student body. Not 
many of the centennial events were 
made clear to current students and 
were thus not very well attended. 
If the committee brings these traditions back in subsequent years, increased advertising and awareness 
of these events would serve to make 
them more successful continued 
traditions.
Booth was a huge improvement 
from last year, when Midways opening ceremony yielded only a smattering of un?nished and disappointing 
structures. Granted, the weather 
during build and move-on last year 
was less than preferable, but SigEps 
Lord of the Rings booth and TSAs Miyazaki ?lm booth were above and beyond anything from last year.
Overall, the centennial Carnival was an exciting celebration of 
Carnegie Mellon and the brilliant 
things our universitys students can 
accomplish.
Digital career fairs hurt personal connections
Can you describe an entire person 
with a checklist? Probably not, but 
that hasnt stopped collegefeed from 
trying. 
This year in collaboration with 
collegefeed and Carnegie Mellons 
Career and Professional Development Center, Carnegie Mellon students will participate in the ?rst-ever 
digital career fair, starting April 21. 
Students who wished to participate ?lled out a pro?le and named 
three companies they were interested in by April 5. Collegefeed then 
used this information to match students with potential employers. Collegefeed then sends the pro?les of 
possible candidates to the companies, who make a ?nal decision on 
who to contact.
The digital career fair does offer 
bene?ts for busy students. In-person 
career fairs can consume a large 
amount of time and yield little bene?t, and the digital career fair cuts 
down on time wasted waiting in lines 
only to be told to go to the companys 
website. If the system is being broken 
down into individual companys online applications, why not make the 
whole career fair online. 
Yet for those students who dont 
necessarily look good on paper, this 
digital shift may not allow them the 
opportunity to shine in person. This 
may also be a problem for those 
who wish to switch career paths and 
whose skills go beyond good problem solving and synergy which can 
be easily characterized in a checkthe-box style. 
While the digital career fair offers 
an excellent second route, traditional career fairs should not disappear. 
Though many students may not gain 
anything from the TOC or EOC, the 
value of person-to-person connections should not be forgotten.
Good businessmen free to have odious beliefs
Newly instated Mozilla CEO 
Brendan Eich resigned from his post 
last week as a result of controversy 
surrounding his anti-gay political 
beliefs. 
Eich was revealed to have contributed money to the Proposition 8 
campaign in 2008 to ban same-sex 
marriage in California; this discovery spurred nationwide calls for his 
removal, including a direct censure 
by popular online dating service OkCupid  which featured a message 
to all of the websites Mozilla Firefox 
users urging them to use a different 
browser. Clearly, these extensive efforts to tear down a homophobic 
CEO were effective. But were such 
efforts justi?ed? 
On one hand, placement of discriminatory individuals in positions of power should absolutely be 
discouraged. There are many cases 
where the public has the right  
and, arguably, the obligation  to 
criticize or boycott a company and its 
leadership. These cases include when 
CEOs use their companies as platforms to voice discriminatory beliefs, 
when they use company revenue to 
support bigoted policies, when they 
discriminate against employees, or 
when they market offensive products 
and censor tolerant ones. 
To name just a few examples, 
Chick-Fil-A has donated millions of 
company money to anti-gay organizations; Urban Out?tters pulled antiProposition 8 T-shirts from shelves 
and supported Rick Santorums 2012 
presidential campaign; and the Salvation Army regularly lobbies for the 
federal implementation of anti-gay 
policies. Boycotting any one of these 
companies in response to its CEOs 
bigotry  or demanding that CEOs 
resignation  would be fully warranted. 
However, the case of Mozillas 
now-former CEO Eich is not so clear 
cut. Those condemning Eich likely 
knew nothing more about him than 
his prejudiced  and private  beliefs. They had no knowledge of his 
work history, business practices, or 
quali?cations for the position. They 
operated instead on the conviction 
that, as a homophobe, Eich had to be 
shot down. 
Eich resigned due to public pressure before he was ever given a 
chance to prove his ability to operate effectively as a businessman. 
Chances are, Eichs personal beliefs 
would have had a negligible effect 
on the operation of Mozilla  if that 
were the case, Eichs personal beliefs 
would ultimately be irrelevant. The 
right to free speech extends even to 
those in positions of power, and as 
long as prejudiced CEOs do not take 
advantage of their power to promote 
discrimination, their personal beliefs 
should not be a point of discussion. 
The public should hesitate to denounce every powerful person who 
expresses an unsavory belief. They 
should check ?rst to see if that opinion is actually impacting how that 
person does their job. If not, then one 
persons opinion shouldnt matter.
Now is the age of cities
MOHAMMED BURNEY
Junior Staffwriter
We are witnessing the rise of 
the cities, according to this weeks 
Freakonomics podcast. Massive metropolises dot the globe. Supercities 
attract talent and ambition. Extraordinary power, fame, and wealth are 
the spoils of success in these urban 
arenas. The inhabitants of these 
cities are not so much American as 
they are New Yorkers, not so much 
British as they are Londoners, not 
so much French as they are Parisian, not so much Indian as they are 
Mumbaikars, not so much Chinese 
as they are Beijingers. The modern 
man is a uniquely urban animal.
In the United States, the 100 largest metropolitan areas are home to 
two-thirds of the national population and generate three-fourths of 
this nations annual gross domestic 
product. They house this many and 
produce this much economic output 
while occupying only 12 percent of 
the countrys land mass.
In an era of extreme partisan 
gridlock in Washington, D.C. and in 
state capitols all across the country, 
the city hall is emerging as an energetic and innovative forum for tackling pressing political issues. Mayors 
across the country are amassing 
greater political prominence at the 
expense of the esteem once commanded by state governors, federal 
legislators, and the American president. City governments are proving 
far more nimble than state or federal institutions in addressing a variety of public policy questions.
Mayors are institutionally pragmatic. They are charged with solving problems, not stoking partisan 
?res. They get things done because 
they must, unlike our increasingly 
sclerotic national government. 
As legendary 99th New York City 
Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia once 
put it, There is no Republican or 
Democratic way to pick up the garbage. Such urban pragmatism extends to policing the streets, educating our children, and building 
next-generation modes of transportation. Pragmatism trumps the 
re?exively ideological nature of 
our national politics. Cosmopolitan 
cooperation between cities will one 
day trump parochial nationalism. 
Entrepreneurial mayors, whose 
constituencies are more united and 
less ideological than those of state 
governors, federal legislators, or the 
president, are the most potent force 
for new ideas in American politics.
Unlike state governors and federal legislators, mayors are ?scally 
and legally constrained in serious 
ways. Their zeal to make a deep impact on national issues is contained 
by the limited scope of their regional 
of?ces. The limited size of the revenue streams they control limits 
the scope of their policy platforms. 
However, these limitations must be 
kept in mind only so that mayors 
can ef?ciently marshal their time 
and efforts. Public-private partnerships, facilitated by City Hall, can 
greatly expand the range of options available to an entrepreneurial 
mayor trying to resolve long-term 
and deep-seated political problems 
in his or her city. Purposive cooperation with other cities can develop 
regional norms of governance that 
could produce visionary public policy without abusing the geographic 
boundaries of a mayors constituency.
Political power is devolving to 
the site of the real action  the city. 
Political energy is gathering in these 
cities, where social change must 
necessarily happen. They are replacing the nation-state as the engines of 
political progress. They are the newest stars on the political stage. The 
polis gave birth to democracy, and 
the cosmopolis will renew it. We are 
living in the Age of the City.
Death penalty is bad news 
BRANDON SCHMUCK 
Recently, Texas District Judge 
Suzanne Covington ruled that the 
Texas Department of Criminal Justice must inform the attorneys of two 
death row inmates of its new source 
of pentobarbital, the substance used 
for lethal injections. However, the 
Texas Supreme Court put Covingtons order on pause, stating that the 
issue must be studied further.
Texas was forced to ?nd a new 
source of lethal injections after companies from foreign countries opposing the death penalty  which 
are nearly all of those in the developed world  refused to continue 
to sell the ingredients for this killer 
substance. While the rest of the 
world continues to move away from 
totalitarian forms of punishment, 
states like Texas continue to uphold 
them.
America, the Land of the Free, 
remains in ?fth place for the most 
executions worldwide, behind China, Iran, Iraq, and Saudi Arabia. Interestingly, if one were to only count 
Texass 16 executions last year, discounting the 23 others nationwide, 
America would only drop two slots 
on the international scale. This fact 
means there are only six countries 
reported in the world, besides the 
United States, that carry out more 
executions than Texas.
Therefore, the recent debates 
come to a bigger question. Does the 
fact that nearly every other developed nation in the world opposes 
the death penalty, and therefore 
refuses to sell us ingredients for our 
lethal injections, mean that perhaps 
we should move forward and follow 
the worlds example?
An argument cannot even be 
made that it is cheaper to simply 
kill someone than imprison them 
for life. According to Fox News, a 
death-penalty trial costs $1 million 
more than one in which prosecutors 
seek life without parole. According to the California Commission on 
the Fair Administration of Justice, 
the additional cost of con?ning an 
inmate to death row, as compared 
to the maximum security prisons 
 is $90,000 per year per inmate. 
With Californias current death row 
population of 670, that accounts for 
$63.3 million annually. Therefore, 
Fox News is not exaggerating when 
it says, Every time a killer is sentenced to die, a school closes.
Because the death penalty increases state spending, is a blatant 
violator of the Eighth Amendment, 
and represents a totalitarian view 
that the rest of the developed world 
has already abandoned, why continue to support it? The buzz created 
by this case is not simply a question 
of whether a person has the right to 
know how the state is killing its citizens; it is a question of whether or 
not the state should have the right to 
do so at all.  
Brandon Schmuck (bschmuck@) is a 
staffwriter for The Tartan.
Editorial Staff
Editorial Board
RACHEL COHEN*
Publisher
BRADEN KELNER*
Editor-in-Chief
ARIEL HOFFMAIER
Forum Editor 
KATE GROSCHNER*
Contributing Editor
EVAN KAHN
Asst. Copy Manager
CHLOE THOMPSON
Staffwriter
BRENT HEARD *
Contributing Editor
LAURA SCHERB *
Operations Manager
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
News Editor
BROOKE KUEI
SciTech Editor
JOEY PEISER
Pillbox Editor
MARYYANN LANDLORD
Comics Editor
JONATHAN LEUNG
Photo Editor
MICHELLE WAN
Art Editor
MARTHA PATERSON
Online Editor
MAIRAD PETTIT
Personnel Manager
SWATHI ANAND
Layout Manager
WILL CRICHTON
Systems Manager
JOHN HUO
Advertising Manager
DESIREE XU
Business Manager
JAMES WU
Copy Manager
SARA REMI FIELDS
Asst. Photo Editor
JASON CHEN
Asst. Photo Editor
NIVEDITA CHOPRA
Asst. Copy Manager
HANNAH DELLABELLA
Asst. Copy Manager
ROBERT MARATOS
Asst. Systems Manager
ANNE-SOPHIE KIM
Asst. Layout Manager
BENJAMIN CHANG
Asst. Business Manager
NOL UM
Asst. News Editor
ALVIN MATTHEWS
Asst. News Editor
ROHAN VARMA
Asst. SciTech Editor
XIYU WANG
Asst. Forum Editor
JENNA BODNAR
Asst. Pillbox Editor
EUNICE OH
Asst. Art Editor
JOSH SMITH
Contributing Editor
JENNIFER COLOMA
Contributing Editor
JONATHAN CARREON
Contributing Editor
SENIOR STAFF 
Carl Glazer, Greg Hanneman
COPY
Lula Beresford-Banker, Francesca Begos, 
Amelia Britton, Matt Brown, Connie Chan, 
Gordon Estes, Blaine Greenberg, Katherine 
Huang, Mackenzie Nicholson, Stephanie Stern
LAYOUT
Adrian Amegashie, Manali Banjeree, Yong Gun 
Choe, Sara-Remi Fields, Mina Kim, Udaya 
Malik, Linging Sun, Tanguri Tzuo
ADVERTISING
Alison Chiu, Anuva Kulkarni, Kyle Henson
 2014 The Tartan, all rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN: 0890-3107* Denotes executive committee member

---------------------------------------------------

A PERSONS OPINION
April 14, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/forum  A7
The Tartan had a great time at Spring Carnival this weekend! So we asked,
What would you like to see at the 101st Carnival?
Compiled by Sara Remi Fields
Meal block times not suited to students
GORDON ESTES
Junior Staffwriter
If youre an enrolled student at 
Carnegie Mellon, theres a good 
chance that youve also enrolled in 
the schools dining plan. While the 
plan itself is straightforward, the 
block schedule can be confusing to 
newcomers and veterans alike. Only 
one block can be used per meal, 
and the start and end times of those 
meals can be fairly inconvenient for 
students. Dining Services should 
change its block meal times or 
else do away with scheduled blocks 
altogether.
Blocks run on a straightforward 
schedule: breakfast from 3:30 to 
10:30 a.m., lunch from 10:30 a.m. to 
4 p.m., dinner from 4 to 8 p.m., and 
late night from 8 p.m. to 3:30 a.m. 
On closer inspection, though, these 
times appear puzzling. It makes little 
sense for breakfast blocks to end at 
10:30 a.m., especially on weekends, 
when students might be getting out 
of bed half an hour before. I cant say 
that I know any students who have 
dinner at 4 p.m., either. It seems silly, as well, to have a late night block 
at 8 p.m., when students getting out 
of a late recitation or lab might have 
their ?rst chance at an evening meal, 
rather than at 9 p.m. or later.
The current meal block schedule 
seems much more styled to a significantly-older persons timetable, and 
fails to take into account the fact that 
college students tend to eat, study, 
and stay up later than other demographics. The 8 p.m. deadline on 
the dinner block is a nuisance and 
?nding breakfast on the weekend 
can be dif?cult when only two locations  Skibo Caf and Carnegie 
Mellon Caf  are even open during that time. The lack of ?exibility 
is the systems biggest concern: If a 
student has breakfast at 10:45 a.m. 
and wants to have lunch at 3 p.m., 
theyre pretty much out of luck.
To ?x this system, Dining Services 
could simply shift the block schedule to a later time to better match 
student activity. Polls distributed to 
the student body through email and 
social media, for example, certainly 
wouldnt go amiss. While this solution probably wouldnt work for everyone, it would ?x a majority of issues while still encouraging healthy 
eating times. Its also clear that if the 
system as a whole remains, on-campus eateries need to moderate their 
opening and closing times to better 
meet student needs.
There are also more drastic solutions. Dining Services could introduce an overlapping block system 
in which breakfast blocks run from 
7:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m., but lunch 
runs from 11 a.m. to, say, 5:30 p.m. 
(with dinner beginning at 5 p.m.). 
Alternatively, it could do away with 
block scheduling entirely. 
While this solution would simplify things and minimize inconvenience, it might do more harm than 
good to Carnegie Mellons goal of 
campuswide healthy eating habits. 
A compromise, perhaps, might be to 
allow the use of two blocks  rather 
than just one  in any given meal 
period.
For its simplicity and ease of 
implementation, the solution to 
shift the schedule should be Dining Services ?rst action. While neither a complete nor permanent ?x, 
it would be a good way to remove 
many students pressing concerns. 
Future changes would likely rely on 
the ability of student government 
to interface with Dining Services. It 
seems promising that now, after the 
recent student body elections, we 
will see some interest in changing 
this antiquated system.
Satire shouldnt call out racism with more racism 
SATVIKA NETI
 
    Janet Mock, an outspoken transgender woman who doesnt like being labeled an activist or even an 
advocate, came to Carnegie Mellons 
campus last week. 
Mock spoke about her childhood 
growing up as a lower-class, black 
trans woman, about being full of 
yourself, and about her intersecting 
identities. The room was completely 
?lled, and people asked valid, interesting questions that she seemed to 
enjoy answering.
It is so important that we bring 
more people like Janet Mock here 
to the Carnegie Mellon campus. She 
addressed very valid fears and concerns, as well as goals and ambitions, 
that many here at Carnegie Mellon 
have, and the talk provided people 
with a safe space to talk about crucial issues of race, class, sexuality, 
and gender.
The atmosphere felt safe and the 
discourse was engaging. My question, though, is why we dont have 
more events and places like this on 
campus. We have groups where people of a certain identity can go to feel 
safe or engage in relevant discussion, 
such as ALLIES, SPIRIT, or ASA, but 
no outlet for similar discourse about 
intersecting issues to take place, and 
nowhere for people to realize  for 
example  how different it is to be 
trans and black, rather than trans 
and white, and where speci?cally 
that difference lies.
Especially at a place like Carnegie 
Mellon, we can often get caught up 
in our own insulated Pittsburgh or 
campus bubble that we forget the 
outside world, as well as the way 
in which our intersecting identities 
can affect the way we view the outside world. Conversation concerning 
intersecting identities would help 
people interested in learning more 
about these issues to be able to hear 
directly from people who have experienced some of those intersecting 
identities. It would also help create 
a larger number of safe spaces on 
campus where people can talk about 
such issues freely.
Some will argue that we dont 
need spaces like this speci?cally 
carved out. They will argue that 
such discussion will happen without having to force it or plan events 
like Mocks talk to facilitate it. I will 
argue instead that visibility and publicity are important, maybe just as 
important as the existence of events 
like Mocks talk. 
If such events happen and no one 
is aware of them, what good does 
that do to either the campus community or the discussion itself? Visibility 
helps people realize that they are not 
alone in what theyre going through, 
if nothing else. 
Public events also publicize that 
these issues exist, and that these issues matter, and thats just at the tip 
of the iceberg when considering the 
possibilities of making such discussion accessible to the larger campus 
community.
Mock advocated being full of 
yourself in her talk. As one of the 
moderators put it, No one else is going to be full of you. Thats advice 
that we should embrace in a society 
that tries to put people down based 
on their self-identi?ed gender or 
their skin color  be full of yourself 
 you and your intersecting identities  because no one else will be.
Satvika Neti (sneti@) is a staffwriter 
for The Tartan.
Kyung Min Lee/Junior Artist
SATIVIKA NETI
An article published in last 
weeks issue of The Tartan, titled 
#CancelColbert ?asco is social 
justice gone wrong, argued that 
the #CancelColbert hashtag was an 
overreaction which failed to further 
any legitimate social justice causes.
The de?nition of satire, according to dictionary.com, is the use 
of irony, sarcasm, ridicule, or the 
like, in exposing, denouncing, or 
deriding vice, folly, etc. But like 
all things, this word also has a social context outside of the dictionary de?nition that must be taken 
into account. Satire, as history has 
taught us, is supposed to mock the 
privileged classes, not the minorities. Satire is supposed to punch up 
at the oppressive social structure, 
not down at people who continue to 
be oppressed. The tweet that started 
the viral #CancelColbert Twitter 
hashtag did none of these things.
The tweet  I am willing to 
show #Asian community I care by 
introducing the Ching-Chong DingDong Foundation for Sensitivity to 
Orientals or Whatever  was posted by The Colbert Shows twitter account as an out-of-context reference 
to a joke Stephen Colbert made on 
the show several weeks prior. 
The tweet was supposed to highlight the hypocrisy in Washington 
Redskins owner Dan Snyder running a charity for Native Americans, 
considering the racism inherent in 
the Redskins name and mascot. It 
was supposed to be satire exposing 
racism, but it used racism in order to 
do that.
This kind of satire  which uses 
one oppressed minority to emphasize the wrongs done to another  
never works. How many people are 
actually talking about the Redskins 
now, rather than talking about Colbert or the tweet itself? Even the article written in this paper last week 
had very little mention about the 
cause that Colbert used to justify 
the tweet  that and his usual play 
of ducking and covering under the 
word satire, of course. There has 
been no call to action, no discussions, nothing about the Redskins.
Taken in context, the joke does 
criticize the name, and the hypocrisy that Colbert wanted to call attention to has been received. But 
the real issue is that he still used this 
call-out as a sort of comic relief. The 
words Ching-Chong Ding-Dong 
are indeed reaf?rming in the tweet 
that they are just as racist as Redskins, but the problem is that Asian 
people are still the butt of this joke, 
even if it may have been criticizing 
the people in power. Satire should 
never be used to demean a group 
that is already oppressed by throwing out words that have always been 
used to degrade, mock, or patronize 
that group.
Also, if the point of the tweet was 
that Ching-Chong Ding-Dong was 
just as racist as Redskins, what 
gives Colbert the right to use those 
words at all? It sets up the idea that 
Colbert  and other white, heterosexual, cisgendered men in positions of power  can be so obviously 
not racist that they are above racism. That even if something he said 
is racist, his intentions were not and, 
therefore, hes still not racist.
The thing is that intentions dont 
matter in these discussions. The very 
valid feelings of many in the AsianAmerican community do matter. 
While some Asian-Americans might 
have been okay with the tweet, others were most de?nitely not, and its 
important to take into account the 
full range of public response in this 
discussion.
Its not just about hurt feelings, 
either. The words that Colbert used 
in his tweet have been used against 
Asian-Americans to systematically 
oppress for a long time, and that 
kind of hurt doesnt just go away because the tweet was supposed to be 
satire.
Colbert is a white man with huge 
amounts of privilege and access. He 
has many avenues through which he 
can affect change. Im disappointed 
that he would ?aunt his privilege in 
such a way.
Satvika Neti (sneti@) is a staffwriter 
for The Tartan.
CMU must facilitate identity discussion
Braden Kelner/Editor-In-Chief
Suhaas Reddy
Math
First-year
I feel like I did not experience 
enough of this Carnival to know 
all that happens. I dont think 
they could add any more things. 
Its hard to run out of things to 
do.
Vicky Pereira
Psychology, Business 
Administration
Sophomore
There should be more open 
events that dont necessarily 
require someone to be in an organization.
Alex Walenczyk
Civil E
First-year
I would like to see more Carnival 
attractions like bouncy castles 
and mazes. It would also be cool 
to have 101 Scotty dogs.
Gus Henry
Information Systems
First-year
More on campus events! It 
would be cool if some orgs who 
didnt do booth had smaller scale 
stuff like barbecues.
Michael Booker
ChemE
Sophomore
I would want Carnival to be more 
embraced by the whole university and not just midway and the 
UC. I would hope that everyone 
can get involved and get to be 
outside.

---------------------------------------------------

A8  thetartan.org/scitech The Tartan  April 14, 2014
ROHAN VARMA
Assistant SciTech Editor
On the ?rst day of Carnival, comedian Hannibal Buress took the stage at Midway 
and poked fun at some of the 
oddities about Carnegie Mellon University. He laughed 
at our fraternities for standing around, playing a ballthrowing game while blasting 
Call Me Maybe. He laughed 
at our students for wearing 
Google Glass. He also jokingly 
assumed that everyone in the 
audience was a robot-builder. 
It seemed that he was almost 
?abbergasted at the peculiarity of the Carnegie Mellon 
community.
For that reason, its a good 
thing Buress didnt stay a day 
longer to watch the 20th annual Mobot Races, a competition in which participants race 
autonomous vehicles (Mobile Robots) along the slalom 
course outside of Wean Hall.
The event took place Friday 
afternoon amid a downpour of 
rain. 
The Buggy races were 
scheduled for Friday as well, 
but were rescheduled for Saturday due to the bad weather. 
However, in true competitive 
spirit, about 100 people  the 
contestants, hosts, and audience of the Mobot Races alike 
 lined up outside of Wean 
Hall in the bludgeoning rain 
holding umbrellas, and wearing coats, plastic wrap, and 
whatever else they could ?nd 
to keep dry. Rain or shine, robots were going to be raced on 
that day.
The race track was composed of curved white lines 
outside of Wean Hall. 
The robots started at the 
top of the hill and followed the 
path to the bottom of the hill. 
Small metal gates were placed 
over the white lines, and the 
robots had to navigate their 
way through the arches. 
This navigation became 
challenging at certain points 
further down the course because there were multiple 
white line paths that could be 
taken, but only some of them 
had the arches that the robots 
needed to pass through. Each 
robot was raced individually, 
and the one that got the farthest in the fastest time was 
crowned the winner.
To visualize the scene, 
imagine a crowd of screaming 
fans lined up on either side of 
the race track. Now imagine 
a man dressed in a plaid kilt 
waving a sword while commentating on the race  this 
is Greg Armstrong, a senior research technician at the Carnegie Mellon Robotics Institute. Every time a competing 
robot successfully navigated 
through a gate, Armstrong 
would yell Hip! Hip! and all 
the people surrounding the 
scene would respond with a 
loud Hooray! Finally, in a 
great crescendo, when the 
robot reached the end, hysteria would erupt as the fans 
cheered wildly.
There were two divisions 
  the undergraduate division 
and the open division  and a 
winner was crowned in each. 
The undergraduate division champion was Team 
MoBoss++, composed of 
sophomore electrical and 
computer engineering majors 
Cosku Akay, Kenneth Li, and 
Nishant Pol, and sophomore 
mechanical engineering major Sam Zeng. MoBoss++ 
reached the ninth gate with a 
time of 1:46.35. 
The Open division champion was Team Revo, represented by Carnegie Mellon 
University alumnus Daniel Jacobs (CIT 13). Revo reached 
the fourth gate with a time of 
0:33.87.
The Ben Brown (Judges) 
Choice Prize was given to 
Team Megubot 7, which consisted of Megan McKelvey, 
a C-MITES student, and her 
father, Terence McKelvey. 
Megubot 7 passed through the 
fourteenth gate with a time of 
1:40.65. There was also a Special Mention given to sophomore electrical and computer 
engineering major Hui Jun 
Tay and sophomore mechanical engineering major Vijay 
Sampath. Their Mobot passed 
through the ?rst gate with a 
time of 1:31.47.
The Mobot Races are an 
event that embodies the spirit 
of Carnegie Mellon. 
Even though not all robots 
made it through the course, 
the work that went into each 
and every one of them was 
apparent.
Mobots navigate race course for the 20th year despite rain
Abhinav Gautam/Staff Photographer
Top left: Mobots had to nagivate along a path outside Wean Hall. Top Right: Armstrong commentated the races. Bottom left: Team MoBoss++ won the undergraduate division. Bottom Right: Team Revo won the open division.
Boston Dynamics director gives robotics lecture at CMU
DAVID FRANKLIN
Junior Staffwriter
To kick off the celebrations 
for National Robotics Week, 
Chief Technology Of?cer and 
Director of Boston Dynamics 
Marc Raibert delivered this 
years Teruko Yata Memorial 
Lecture in Robotics this Thursday to members of the Carnegie Mellon community.
Raibert is not a stranger to 
Carnegie Mellon: He was an 
associate professor of computer science at the university 
and a member of the Robotics 
Institute from 1981 to 1986. 
While at Carnegie Mellon, he 
established the Leg Lab, which 
specialized in developing robots that use legs to move and 
balance dynamically instead 
of relying on wheels or treads 
used by most robots. After 
moving the lab to The Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1986, he used his work 
to form Boston Dynamics in 
1992. The company does not 
sell commercial robots, but 
has instead relied on funding 
from partners like the Defense 
Advanced Research Projects 
Agency (DARPA) to advance 
the ?eld of robotics through 
its research. Google recently 
acquired Boston Dynamics on 
Dec. 13, 2013.
Raiberts lecture, Walk, 
Bound, Gallop, Climb, focused on the work Boston 
Dynamics has done since 
the success of BigDog, their 
groundbreaking project from 
2005. BigDog is a four-legged 
robot with dynamic stabilization, which allows it to traverse rough terrain like rocky 
hills or snow-covered trails. 
It can even recover its balance if shoved. Videos of BigDog have been YouTube hits, 
generating more than 20 million views and spawning numerous parodies. Raibert and 
the rest of Boston Dynamics 
are now aiming to develop the 
ideas behind BigDog further 
to create a new generation of 
robots that are unprecedentedly strong, dexterous, and 
agile.
One of the robots presented during the event was the 
Legged Squad Support System (LS3). Like BigDog before 
it, LS3 is a four-legged robot 
with dynamic stabilization. In 
contrast to BigDog, which was 
noisy and could only travel 12 
miles, LS3 is relatively quiet 
and can travel up to 20 miles 
while carrying 400 pounds of 
equipment. DARPA has supported the development of 
LS3, going so far as to create 
its own test courses for evaluating the effectiveness of LS3 
in the ?eld.
Boston Dynamics is working on advancing the speed 
of their robots as well. Their 
Wildcat robot is capable of galloping or bounding short distances across paved surfaces 
at 16 miles per hour. Cheetah, 
an earlier tethered robot from 
Boston Dynamics, could run 
28 miles per hour.
Teams at Boston Dynamics 
are now working on developing humanoid robots with dynamic stabilization. One such 
robot, PETMAN, can perform 
a wide array of motions like 
walking, skating, and stretching. It is intended to help test 
the effectiveness of clothing 
that protects against chemicals, a task that has traditionally required humans to perform repetitive movements 
over many hours. 
PETMAN can perform 
these very same movements, 
allowing for the clothing to 
be tested without the need 
for humans. Another humanoid robot, Atlas, is designed 
to traverse rough terrain like 
that negotiated by BigDog and 
LS3. Several copies of Atlas 
are currently being used in the 
DARPA Robotics Challenge, 
an ongoing competition to 
develop robots capable of performing a variety of tasks that 
could be helpful in disaster 
scenarios like a nuclear reactor accident.
After the lecture, Raibert 
?elded questions from the 
audience. He conveyed openness to considering new ideas 
and techniques, saying that he 
tries to avoid being too religious in his existing beliefs. 
When asked about the safety 
and compliance measures 
currently in place, he also acknowledged that the company 
has work to do in making their 
robots safe for use around 
humans. 
When asked about Boston Dynamicss future, Raibert admitted that he could 
not discuss much about their 
work since the company was 
acquired by Google, but later 
teased that he and his team 
are going to make smaller 
things now.
Abhinav Gautam/Staff Photographer
Boston Dynamics director Marc Raibert gave a robotics lecture.

---------------------------------------------------

April 14, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/scitech  A9
KATHRYN MCKEOUGH
Special to The Tartan
Computers are used for 
a wide variety of purposes, 
including heavily computational programs that can 
solve complicated problems. 
However, is it possible for a 
computer to create something 
completely on its own, such as 
art or new knowledge?
To decide whether or not 
a computer can create art, art 
must be de?ned. A creation 
can be considered art by either the designer or the beholder. For example, a piece 
may be considered art by the 
one who creates it if it tells 
a story or holds a personal 
meaning. Therefore, it would 
be dif?cult for a computer 
or program to create art because computers cannot generate human experience or 
emotion. 
On the other hand, if we 
look to the opinion of the beholder, even nature could be 
considered art. By this logic, 
any computer output that 
a person views as beautiful 
could be a candidate for art.
Is it possible to create a 
program that will produce 
an output that is not attributed to the work of a computer scientist? For example, 
media artist Matthias Drfelt 
created an algorithm that 
randomly generates entirely 
new drawings of faces from 
scratch. The cartoons highly 
resemble those drawn by illustrators, yet an artist never 
conceived the images. However, we must also consider 
giving credit to the one who 
wrote the algorithm in the 
?rst place. We cannot necessarily say the computer created these images on its own if 
a human wrote the program.
Yet, we must compromise 
by admitting that there are 
impossible tasks that are 
made feasible by computers. 
For example, a long computational simulation may make 
calculations at the rate of a 
thousand a second, a task 
that will never be replicated 
by human beings. Although 
a computer is instrumental in 
producing these calculations 
quickly, a human could do 
it at a slower rate. The computer can only make a unique 
creation if a human does not 
know how to replicate the 
output.
If a computer can generate 
undiscovered concepts and 
produce a unique output, why 
should we care? Just because 
a computer has generated a 
solution to a complicated algorithm, it will be dif?cult to 
convince people to trust it. As 
students in a heavily computer science-oriented school, 
we are aware of the seemingly in?nite capabilities of 
computers. We leave it up to 
you to decide whether these 
computers are capable of generating unique and creative 
material.
Student Pugwash is a nonadvocacy, educational organization that discusses the implications of science. This article 
is a summary of their discussion on whether computers can 
contribute new knowledge.
PUGWASH COLUMNComputers ability to make new knowledge is debated
Alison Chiu/Staff Artist
RAGHUNANDAN AVULA
Staffwriter
Today, smartphones can be 
used to triangulate a persons 
position within a few meters 
from almost anywhere on the 
Earth. Despite having this advanced technology, the search 
for Malaysia Airlines ?ight 
MH370, which vanished on 
March 8, 2014, is still ongoing, and there have been no 
traces of the plane. Much of 
the world has been shocked at 
how a Boeing 777-200 jetliner 
carrying  239 people on board 
can simply disappear without 
a trace.
After the planes communications were disabled, the 
only data from the plane were 
a series of pings to Inmarsat 
4-F1, a communications satellite that sits perfectly stationary above the equator at the 
Indian Ocean.
Unfortunately, three satellites are required to determine an objects location on 
the earth. A single satellite 
can only measure distance 
based on the time it takes for 
radio waves to go from the object to the satellite. A sphere 
can be generated with this 
distance, as the radius and 
the object can be anywhere 
on this sphere. By having two 
satellites and two distance 
measurements, the object 
is con?ned to anywhere on 
the intersection of the two 
spheres. A third sphere can be 
used to ?nd the intersection 
of all three and, thus, the location of the object.
Based on the single Inmarsat data, searchers identi?ed 
two possible paths for the 
plane on the one sphere they 
generated. The Guardian reported that engineers working for Inmarsat used a clever 
approach that involves the 
Doppler effect to determine 
the planes ?nal path.
The Doppler effect is when 
sound, light, or radio waves 
are emitted from a source 
and the observer receives a 
changed frequency of waves. 
If the source is moving toward 
the listener, the distance between successive waves decreases so they bunch together, increasing the frequency. 
Conversely, if the source is 
moving away from the listener, the distance increases 
between waves and frequency 
received drops.
Analysts identi?ed slight 
changes in the frequency of 
the radio waves that the satellite received from the plane 
and deduced that the plane 
was traveling south away 
from the satellite at the equator. The planes last ping was 
then deduced to be about 
1,500 miles away from the 
coast of Australia.
Now that the general location of the plane is known, 
the task of searching through 
the southern Indian Ocean 
remains. Search teams are 
listening for a black box ?ight 
recorded, which sends pings 
for about 30 days a distance of 
two miles. They must identify 
a ping that lasts 9.3 milliseconds, a tenth of the time of a 
blink of the human eye that is 
repeated every 1.08 seconds 
in a vast ocean that is ?lled 
with many other noises.
CNN reported that a Chinese and Australian search 
vessel heard pings at the right 
frequency on April 5 but have 
not heard them since. An of?-
cial close to the search is now 
reporting that the batteries on 
the black box are most likely 
dead. 
After one month of searching, MH370 has eluded the 
whole world, seeming to simply disappear into thin air.
HOW THINGS WORKUsing the Doppler effect to ?nd missing MH370 ?ight
Eunice Oh/Assistant Art Editor

---------------------------------------------------

A10  thetartan.org/scitech The Tartan  April 14, 2014
Mathletes come in second at Putnam
CLAIRE GIANAKAS
Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellon has long 
been known for its excellence 
in math and science programs, a statement that has 
been supported by Carnegie 
Mellon students participation 
in the Mathematical Association of Americas 74th William 
Lowell Putnam Competition, 
a mathematics contest for undergraduate students held on 
December 7. 
Results for the competition 
were recently released. Thirty-?ve Carnegie Mellon students scored among the top 10 
percent, and the universitys 
team placed second overall in 
the Putnam competition.
The Putnam competition 
began in 1927, but it was not 
until 1935 that the competition was placed under the 
control of the Mathematical Association of America 
and became what it is today. 
Students participating in the 
Putnam competition are given 
six hours to solve 12 complex mathematical problems. 
This year, 4,113 undergraduate students participated in 
the competition. Participants 
came from 557 different 
undergraduate institutions, 
both American and Canadian. 
Three students from each institution formed the teams, 
which compete for the overall 
score; other students are allowed to participate for individual rankings.
Carnegie Mellons team, 
coached by Carnegie Mellon 
assistant professor of mathematical sciences Po-Shen Loh, 
included sophomore math 
major Linus Hamilton, junior 
math major Michael Druggan, and ?rst-year math major 
Thomas Swayze. 
All three students are 
Knaster-McWilliams Scholars. The Knaster-McWilliams 
Scholars program, funded by 
Alexander M. Knaster (CIT 
80) and Bruce McWilliams 
(MCS 81), is a scholarship 
program paired with an honors program. The program offers increased access to faculty 
and early research opportunities for students.
I did math contests in high 
school, so this was a continuation of that, said Swayze. 
Math contests like this were 
a big focus for me in high 
school. I put most of my free 
time into training for math 
contests since there wasnt access to university level math 
courses.
Swayze also noted the 
amount of preparation that 
went into the competition. 
For preparation, I took Putnam seminar, which is a class 
in the fall that is strati?ed by 
the various levels that people 
are at, explained Swayze. 
Its a couple hours a week; 
we worked on practice problems and discussed techniques. The Putnam seminar 
is led by Po-Shen Loh and 
allows students to improve 
their problem-solving skills 
through complex mathematical problems that require both 
knowledge and creativity to 
complete. 
Students have the opportunity to participate in two competitions, the Virginia Tech 
Regional Mathematics Contest (VTRMC) and the Putnam 
competition.
I basically enjoy the contest because I enjoy math.... It 
is sort of like a six-hour competition between you and a set 
of problems, more so than a 
competition against the other 
teams. Its just a question of 
how many problems you can 
crack in the allotted amount 
of time, Swayze said.
Carnegie Mellons team 
placed second, which secured 
them a third consecutive year 
in the top ?ve. The Carnegie 
Mellon team also secured a 
spot in the top ?ve in 1946, 
1949, 1987, 2011, and 2012. 
Since the competition began, only 13 universities have 
placed in the top ?ve over ?ve 
times. Only 11 other institutions have placed in the top 
?ve over two times since 1990.
Carnegie Mellon had 163 
students participate individually. 35 students placed in the 
top 442, the second most out 
of any university. Hamilton, 
Swayze, and ?rst-year math 
major Samuel Zbarsky placed 
in the top 16.
Brooke Kuei/SciTech Editor
Blood moon to occur on Tuesday
On Tuesday night, there 
will be a blood moon  a total lunar eclipse during which 
the moon will turn a burnt 
reddish orange as it passes 
through Earths shadow. This 
eclipse is the ?rst of four total 
lunar eclipses, each of which 
will feature a blood moon. 
The four blood moons will 
occur on April 15, 2014, Oct. 
8, 2014, April 4, 2015, and 
Sept. 28, 2015. However, despite this apparent frequency, 
these are not commonplace 
events. 
Though there are about 
two lunar eclipses per year, 
most are penumbral, so they 
are vaguely visible and often 
go unnoticed. According to 
CNN, getting four umbral 
(total) eclipses in a row is like 
drawing a rare lunar poker 
hand of four of a kind. The 
astronomers name for this 
lucky draw is a tetrad.
Source: CNN
Google Glass helps Parkinsons victims
Researchers at Newcastle 
University are exploring the 
use of Google Glass to assist 
patients with Parkinsons 
disease in monitoring their 
symptoms and increasing 
their mobility. 
The voice-enabled device is especially useful in 
scenarios when the patients 
syndrome renders them immobile. In such a case, the 
patient is able to use Google 
Glass to orally place a phone 
call or connect them via video to a family member. In addition, the sensors in Google 
Glass can measure eye and 
hand motion and notify users if their symptoms become 
worse.
Source: ACM TechNews
iPhone app helps overcome jet-lag
Researchers have developed a mobile app called 
Entrain to help people overcome jet-lag. They developed 
a method to synchronize the 
body clock based on the assumption that light from 
the sun  mainly the blue 
wavelengths  is the strongest signal to the circadian 
rhythms, which correspond 
to the bodys internal clock. 
Their app guides the user to 
be in light or darkness at particular times to ensure their 
speedy adjustment to a new 
time zone. 
Since the shortcuts prescribed by the app often require light or darkness at an 
unusual hour, one can wear 
pink-tinted glasses during the 
day to block the blue wavelengths from the sun and 
simulate darkness, or use a 
therapeutic light to simulate 
bright outdoor light at night. 
Source: Science Daily
Tissue engineering reconstructs nose
Scientists at the University 
of Basel, Switzerland, have 
been able to use tissue engineering to reconstruct the 
human nose. They extracted 
cartilage cells from patients 
nasal septa, multiplied them, 
and expanded the cells onto 
a collagen membrane. This 
collagen membrane was 
then shaped according to 
the defect and implanted. 
This method improves upon 
the earlier method of taking grafts for reconstruction 
from the nasal septum, the 
ear, or the ribs, and using 
those to reconstruct the nose. 
Source: Science Daily
Compiled By
NIVEDITA CHOPRA
SCITECH BRIEFS

---------------------------------------------------

April 14, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/sports  A11
Track and ?eld teams have respectable weekend at invitational
CARL GLAZER
Contributing Editor
The Carnegie Mellon mens 
and womens track and ?eld 
teams competed in the Bennie 
Benson Memorial Invitational  
on Saturday against a ?eld 
comprised of athletes from 
Division I, II, and III schools. 
The meet was hosted at Robert 
Morris University.
The womens team excelled 
in the track events. Junior Hailey Brown took home a ?rstplace title in the 3,000-meter 
steeplechase with a time of 
11:57.02. Brown dominated 
the ?eld, beating the secondplace runner by over 30 seconds. 
Senior Jacqueline Guevel 
grabbed the only other podium 
place by a Tartan, with a thirdplace win in the 400-meter 
intermediate hurdles, crossing 
the line at the 1:03.99 mark. 
Guevel also placed seventh in 
the 100-meter high hurdles 
with a time of 15.79.
In the short distance runs, 
junior Sasha Spalding ?nished 
sixth in the 200-meter dash, 
while ?rst-year Ariel Tian 
placed seventh in the 
400-meter run with times of 
26.44 and 1:02.92, respectively.
First-year Rebecca Fortner 
?nished with the best time for 
the Tartans in a ?eld event, 
placing sixth in the high jump 
after leaping over the bar at 
1.48 meters. 
The mens team had a bit 
more success at the meet, 
starting with the 3,000-meter 
run. The Tartans dominated 
the event, claiming ?ve of the 
top eight spots, starting with 
senior Josh Newby and his 
winning time of 8:55.33. 
Juniors Joe Pane and 
Grant Langevin took third and 
fourth with times of 8:58.14 
and 8:59.83, respectively, 
while senior Adam Cantini 
and sophomore Brian Bollens 
?nished seventh and eighth, 
respectively.
The Tartans also performed 
well in the 3,000- meter steeplechase, with ?rst-year Curtis 
Watro and junior Elliot Watson 
taking ?rst and second with 
times of 9:50.01 and 10:00.39, 
respectively. Watros time was 
also a career-best ?nish.
Rounding out the track 
events were a pair of fourthand ?fth- place ?nishes, with 
junior Ben Walker and ?rstyear Nathan Willis in 
800-meter running times of 
1:58.92 and 1:59.22, respectively, and ?rst-year Andrew 
Chang and sophomore Ben 
Neiman ?nishing the 110-meter high hurdles with times of 
16.07 and 16.11, respectively.
In the jumping events, 
?rst-year Kyle Weaver leapt to 
second place in the pole vault 
with a 4.60-meter jump that 
tied his own school record and 
career best. Junior Michael 
McDermott ?nished ?fth in 
the high jump, making it over 
the 1.85-meter bar.
Because of the increased 
competition, the Tartan throwers were unable to keep up the 
dominance they had sustained 
in previous weeks, claiming 
only two top-three ?nishes. 
The honors went to senior 
Zachary Erra-Hernandez, who 
?nished second in the shot put 
with a distance of 15.79 meters and third in the hammer 
toss with a 50.36-meter hurl. 
First-year Jacob Brooks had 
a career-best day in javelin, 
taking home fourth with his 
54.23-meter hurl.
Both squads will compete 
at home on Wednesday at the 
Carnegie Mellon Tri-Meet.
Jason Chen/Assistant Photo Editor
Left: First-year Jacob Brooks readies to launch his javelin for the javelin throw event. Right: First-year Andrew Chang sprints toward the ?nish line.
Mens Tennis
Saturday, April 19
Kenyon at Carnegie Mellon
TBA 
Thursday, April 24
Carnegie Mellon in Orlando, Fla. 
TBA
Friday, April 25
Carnegie Mellon in Orlando, Fla. 
TBA 
Sunday, April 26
Carnegie Mellon in Orlando, Fla. 
TBA 
Womens Tennis
Friday, April 18
Carnegie Mellon at Duquesne 
5 p.m. 
Sunday, April 19
Kenyon at Carnegie Mellon
12 p.m. 
Saturday, April 25
Carnegie Mellon in Orlando, Fla.
TBA
Upcoming Events
Mens Track and Field
Wednesday, April 16
Carnegie Mellon Tri-Meet 
4 p.m. 
Sunday, April 26
Carnegie Mellon at University of Chicago 
10 a.m. 
Womens Track and Field
 
Tuesday, April 15
Carnegie Mellon Tri-Meet
4 p.m. 
Sunday, April 26 
Carnegie Mellon at University of Chicago
TBA
Womens Golf
Monday, April 14
Carnegie Mellon at Grove City 
1 p.m.
Mens Golf
Tuesday, April 15
Carnegie Mellon at Lounge Vue Country Club
1 p.m.

---------------------------------------------------

April 14, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/sports  A12
FROM THE EDITORIAL BOARDEditorial Board apologizes for Compubookie article
Last week, an article titled Compubookie predicts 
SDC to win Carnival buggy 
races was printed in the 
sports section of The Tartan. This article contained 
a section titled The Field, 
in which inappropriate comments promoting racial stereotypes and connotations 
were printed. The Tartan 
apologizes for the comments that were allowed to 
be printed.
Compubookie is an annual article submitted by 
an anonymous author. The 
article does not re?ect The 
Tartans opinion, nor does 
The Tartan wish to promote 
any of the stereotypes that 
were allowed to be printed. 
Typically, these types of connotations and stereotypes 
are removed from the Compubookie submission. This 
year, the failure to remove 
all inappropriate comments 
was an unfortunate editorial oversight, and The Tartan 
editorial board apologizes 
for the comments appearance in last weeks issue.
Annual Sweepstakes competition whips through campus
Alan Vangpat /Staff Photographer 
Bottom left: First-year Kerolos Mikaeil hands an SAE buggy off to junior Max Queenan. Bottom right: Sophomore Isaiah Edmonds passes a Sig Ep buggy to sophomore Wesley Jones.
CARL GLAZER
Contributing Editor
The Carnegie Mellon 
mens golf team participated in the two-day Edward 
Jones Shootout at The Links 
at Spring Church in Apollo, 
Pa. over the weekend. The 
Tartans entered two teams 
into the tournament, with 
the A team competing under 
the schools name and the B 
team competing individually.
Carnegie Mellon placed 
third overall with a combined score of 599 over the 
two days. Senior Ian Bangor 
led the squad, shooting just 
six over par for the tournament on his way to a third 
place overall ?nish. First-year 
George Qian was the most 
consistent Tartan, shooting 
?ve over par both days for an 
eighth place ?nish. First-year 
Ryan Karbowicz also shot a 
total of 150, but was scored as 
an individual.
The next pair of Tartans 
tied at 11th with junior Cameron Low and ?rst-year Jordan Klodowski, although only 
Low was part of the team 
competition. Klodowski had 
the best turnaround of any 
Tartan, shooting a fantastic 
72 on Sunday.
Rounding out the team 
competition roster was sophomore Ben DuCarme and ?rstyear Bradley Jennette, who 
?nished 38th.
The teams next scheduled 
competition, the Carnegie 
Mellon Invitational, initially 
to be held this Tuesday at 
Longue Vue Country Club, 
has been postponed. The 
teams next competition, the 
California (Pa.) Vulcan Invitational, will be at Cedarbrook 
Golf Course in Belle Vernon, 
Pa. on Saturday.
Mens golf team is on par
Buggy 2014standings
Design Award
First place: CIAs Icarus
Second place: Fringes Beissa
Chairmans Choice Award
CIA
Spirit of Buggy Award
Fringe
T-shirt Award
SPIRIT
Peoples Choice Award
SPIRIT
Mens Teams
TeamTime
SDC A2:04.173
SigEp A2:14.618
Fringe A2:17.010
SigEp B2:17.329
SPIRIT A2:18.126
CIA A2:27.552
Womens Teams
TeamTime
SDC A2:33.452
Fringe A2:42.620
SDC B2:49.457
SigEp A2:52.759
NISHANT RENIWAL
Staffwriter
The 95th annual Sweepstakes competition  better known as Buggy  was a 
memorable one despite Fridays preliminary races being 
washed out due to rain. Fog on 
Saturday morning delayed the 
races by thirty minutes, but 
the streets were soon crowded with enthusiastic campus 
community members to see 
one of the biggest events on 
the Carnegie Mellon calendar. 
The Student Dormitory 
Council (SDC) buggies came 
out on top in both the mens 
and womens races, with a 
margin of over nine seconds 
in both. This year marked the 
third year in a row that SDC 
has won both races in the 
competition.
There were a total of nine 
organizations that took part in 
the races; traditional powerhouses, such as Fringe and Sig 
Ep, made signi?cant strides 
from last year. Sig Ep had an 
exceptional day in the mens 
category, ?nishing second by 
over two full seconds ahead of 
Fringe A. 
Sig Eps B team gave Fringe 
A a run for their money, coming in only a fraction of a second after Fringe to take fourth 
place. In the womens races, 
Fringe A ?nished second and 
were around seven seconds 
ahead of SDCs B team, who 
?nished in third place.
The weather was beautiful once the fog cleared, and 
the performances from the 
teams were top notch. The 
SDC mens team ?nished with 
a time of 2:04.473, which was 
just a second off the course record despite the challenging 
conditions of this years race. 
The weather has been bad 
all throughout the semester, 
and rolls did not start nearly 
as early as it was hoped. Even 
though the Sweepstakes committee did their best to organize weekend rolls with cones 
for the drivers to follow the 
new path, it was hard for the 
drivers and pushers to get 
enough practice. 
Head mechanic for Fringe 
junior Vivek Nair said I dont 
think any of teams drivers got 
enough practice on the course 
and it made race-day all the 
more challenging. 
One of the most talked 
about topics through this 
years races was the several 
potholes on hill two, which 
made the drivers task exceptionally dif?cult and resulted 
in several Did Not Finish 
(DNF) classi?cations, especially in the mens category. 
There were two major 
crashes during the races. The 
Fringe C team buggy, Banyan, 
crashed into the curb rather 
than the hay in the womens 
race, and the driver was hospitalized overnight for her 
injuries. The buggy could not 
be used for the mens race 
later. In the mens race, SDC 
B buggy, Vice, lost both of her 
wheels during the chute turn 
and spun into the bales.
Besides the top positions, 
there were several interesting performances from other 
teams amongst the lower 
ranked teams too. In the mens 
races, SPIRIT A and PiKA B 
came in ?fth and sixth with 
strong performances, with 
SPIRIT less than two seconds 
off of Fringe in third. 
PiKA A looked to be going 
strong with their sleek buggy 
and could have competed for 
a place in the top three, but 
spun out at the end of hill two. 
SDCs B and C teams spun out 
but looked fast enough for 
places in the top 10. 
Even their D team gave 
others like the Fringe B team 
a tough ?ght. SPIRIT C, CIA A, 
CIA B and SDC D rounded out 
the top 10. The likes of SDC B 
and C, SigNu A and PiKA A not 
?nishing in the mens races 
made the morning dull for 
some but extremely good for 
others.
In the womens races, 
SigEps A and B teams came in 
?fth and seventh respectively, 
with PiKA A sandwiched in 
between, rounding out an excellent day overall for the organization. 
CIA A ?nished in fourth 
place after a reroll improved 
their time by eight seconds. 
SPIRIT A came in seventh, 
while SDC C beat Fringe B to 
take eighth place. 
The difference between 
the ?fth and ninth places was 
a mere ?ve seconds, which 
meant the positions changed 
throughout the morning. 
APEX B ?nished 10th, but 
were approximately 12 seconds behind ninth place.
First-year mechanical engineering major Aditya Krishnan summed it up when asked 
what he thought about Buggy, 
saying I have, in my seven 
months of staying on campus, 
never seen so much excitement and passion for any 
single event on campus. 
The alumni website said of 
the event, If you arent here 
for buggy, youre the one losing race-day.
The weather was 
beautiful once the 
fog cleared, and 
the performances 
from the teams 
were top notch.
Abhinav Gautam/Staff Photographer 
Teams receiving trophies

---------------------------------------------------

04.14.14 Volume 108, Issue 24
Spring Carnival Review
Take a look back through the pages of 
this years Spring Carnival

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
Read some comics to pull you through the last 
three weeks of the semester.
19
Dollar Movie
AB Films presents The Hobbit: The Desolation 
of Smaug.
7
The Tartan . Box 119 . UC Suite 103 . Carnegie Mellon University . 5000 Forbes Ave . Pittsburgh, PA 15213 . www.thetartan.org .  2014 The Tartan
PUBLISHER Rachel Cohen EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Braden Kelner
PILLBOX EDITOR Joey Peiser ASSISTANT PILLBOX EDITOR Jenna Bodnar COMICS EDITOR Maryyann Landlord
ART EDITOR Michelle Wan PHOTO EDITOR Jonathan Leung 
COPY MANAGER James Wu COVER Abhinav Guatum, Braden Kelner
8
546
regulars...
Advice
Everything you need to know about moving on 
and getting out of your Carnival funk.
3
...diversions
...this week only
Hypnotist
Hypnotist Paul Ramsay mesmerized the crowd 
with his mind games.
3
 Concert
Icona Pop and Mac Miller entertain an 
enthusiastic crowd on the Cut.
4
Comedy Show
Hannibal Buress and Tig Notaro put on one 
hilarious show.
5
Film Festival
SHOT FOR SHOT Film Festival celebrated 
student filmmakers from all over Pittsburgh.
6
Spelling Bee
ScotchnSoda members elicited laughs in their 
performance of this lighthearted musical.
7
Booth Review
Check out The Tartans second annual Boothy 
awards for excellence in boothing. 
8
Photo Spreads
Take a look at special Spring Carnival photo 
spreads on pages 1017.
10
Puzzles
Warm up for exams with these brain-teasers.20
Horoscopes
Find out which movie the stars say your life will 
resemble most this week.
22
Calendar
Check out this list of events happening on and 
off campus this week. 
23

---------------------------------------------------

carnival
pillbox 04.14.143
Paul Ramsay captures minds
Carnival hypnotist entertains in the Midway tent
Throughout the years, scores of power-seekers have 
sought to gain access to the power of hypnosis 
and mind control to create an enslaved population 
ready to carry out their bidding at any moment. 
Luckily, the only people who have such power are 
benign entertainers such as hypnotist Paul Ramsay, 
who recently performed a show on Saturday during 
Spring Carnival.
First, Ramsay did some preliminary testing to see 
who could potentially come on stage to become 
hypnotized.
In the first test, Ramsay had the audience close 
their eyes and hold their hands out. He told them to 
imagine one hand was full of bricks and the other 
hand was being held up by balloons. When he finally 
told the audience to open their eyes, some people 
had one hand raised and the other lowered; those 
people, according to Ramsay, were more susceptible 
to being hypnotized.
Afterward, Ramsay went into another test in which 
he told the audience to forget their names. He then 
asked those who forgot their name to come up on 
stage and did a demonstration showing that he 
could wipe their names from their minds and bring 
it back again with the snap of his fingers. He then 
eliminated certain people who did not properly 
answer his questions until there were only five 
people left on stage.
In Ramsays show, the audience used remote 
controls to participate in an interactive poll to decide 
what actions Ramsay should get the participants 
to perform next. Unfortunately, much of the value 
added to the show from this mechanic depended on 
how far you were away from the screen; the screen 
was small and on the left edge of the stage, making 
it difficult to see the text.
First, Ramsay hypnotized the participants into 
believing they were the founding members of 
the Carnegie Mellon Ballet Club and had them 
dance ballet moves on stage. Then he had them 
hypnotized to do individual behaviors at the 
mention of a cue word. One guy had extremely itchy 
nipples. Another participant shouted WHOS YOUR 
DADDY! whenever Pittsburgh was mentioned. 
Another person behaved like a pirate captain. One 
person jumped up from their seat, and another 
person felt wind blowing in her ear.
At times, the hypnotist seemed to be surprised 
by the intensity of his powers. For instance, in a 
segment involving a Guitar Hero championship, 
at the end Ramsay asked the participants to do a 
special move. One Asian male performed an intense 
twerking maneuver (dubbing it The Korean Sexy), 
which seemed to disconcert Ramsay somewhat.
Disappointingly, music always seemed to be cut 
short in the show. During one segment, when a 
participant was hypnotized into believing she was 
Miley Cyrus performing her hit song Wrecking 
Ball, the song was cut off once the twerking 
started. Also, at the very end, when the participants 
were encouraged to start a group singalong of 
Journeys Dont Stop Believin, the song was once 
again cut short just as everyone had got up and 
started singing. To call it killing the moment would 
be an understatement.
At the end of the night, Ramsays show might not 
have gotten audience members to believe in the 
power of hypnosis, but it nonetheless offered an 
entertaining show full of ridiculous people doing 
ridiculous things.
Xiyu Wang | Assistant Forum Editor
Abhinav Guatam | Staff Photographer
Advice for awkward people
Dear Matt & Ryan,
Whats this I hear about 
you two graduating? 
I thought once The 
Tartan had found two 
replacements to Patrick 
Hoskins, Id be able to 
pick up a paper once a 
week for the rest of my 
life and get bad advice 
from familiar faces. Dont 
go! Stay forever!
How will I say:
Going On Okay, Dont Bid 
Yourselves Exit?
Dear GOODBYE,
The only advice we can give 
you quotes Boyz II Men:
I dont know where this 
road 
Is going to lead 
All I know is where weve 
been 
And what weve been 
through.
If we get to see tomorrow 
I hope its worth all the wait 
Its so hard to say goodbye 
to yesterday.
And Ill take with me the 
memories 
To be my sunshine after the 
rain 
Its so hard to say goodbye 
to yesterday.
Ryan II Matt
Hey Ryan & Matt,
Carnival ... oh my. It 
was a blast. I went to a 
near constant stream of 
house parties, I lost my 
voice cheering for my 
buggy team, my jacket 
got puked on, I saw 
alumni I havent seen 
since last year, and I ate 
a disgusting amount of 
funnel cake without any 
shame. The issue is, 
we still have some time 
before the end of the 
semester, and I have no 
idea how Im still going 
to care about classes 
and schoolwork. How do 
you recommend I keep 
motivated?
Sincerely,
Reasonably Intoxicated 
Person Laboring 
Intensely, Vanquishing 
Each Requirement
Dear RIP LIVER,
For starters, Matt and 
Ryan are out, probably in 
the same position as you. 
Im Josh. So, get up to 
speed on that. As for what 
you asked, if graduating 
and self-respect arent 
motivation enough, you can 
always try making a game 
out of schoolwork. Give 
yourself points for turning in 
homework assignments or 
getting up before noon, then 
compare your scores with 
your friends.
Because competition 
is at the heart of every 
Carnegie Mellon 
friendship,
Josh
Need advice? Send queries 
to advice@thetartan.org.
About moving forward and finding motivation
Paul Ramsay uses an interactive poll to allow 
audience members to choose what they see.
The crowd is under Ramsays control.
Abhinav Guatam | Staff Photographer

---------------------------------------------------

4carnival
pillbox 04.14.14
This years Carnival Concert turned the Cut into a ?lthy, 
beautiful party on Friday with an energetic performance 
from popular artists Icona Pop and Mac Miller. Icona Pop 
are Swedish EDM-pop crossover artists well-known for 
their 2012 anthem of reckless abandon I Love It, and 
Miller, a Pittsburgh native, has made a good name for 
himself with such white-boy party classics as Donald 
Trump  which even earned the interest of the walking 
comb-over billionaire himself in a trademark suit  and 
the kind of precisely trimmed facial hair that is only 
capable with a high-quality electric razor.
The night opened with a performance by student 
musician Kai Roberts, a senior business administration 
major. Roberts played songs off his debut album, 
Carnegie Caf, which details his own experiences with 
Carnegie Mellon stress culture. The fact that audience 
members were singing along with many of his songs 
revealed his large fan base among students.
Icona Pop opened the night with a series of high-energy 
club bangers that had the crowd pumping their ?sts and 
getting down. Their performance of the recent single 
Its My Party, which samples the 1965 hit by Lesley 
Gore of the same name (Its my party and Ill cry if I want 
to!), got everybody in the crowd moving and was a great 
example of electronic musics recent trend of taking 
whats old and making it new through remixing and 
sampling. 
The female duo kept the crowd hyped by fully throwing 
themselves into the performance and frequently 
interacting with the crowd. Before jumping into their 
signature tune, I Love It, the duo played a brief mix 
of hip-hop songs that included crowd favorites such as 
Pour It Up by Rihanna and Juicy Js Bandz A Make 
Her Dance, that created a thick air of anticipation.
Mac Millers set suffered from the artists own limitations 
as a musician. Millers brand of party-rap works when 
it connects anyone and everyone with catchy choruses 
and nice beats  and it was at these moments that the 
performance was truly captivating  but his recent 
experimentations with avant-garde acid rap  which 
are plenty interesting while consciously listening with 
headphones in between classes  didnt quite land 
in the live setting and had the crowd checking their 
phones and carrying on chitchat.
Songs, such as his early hit Knock Knock, were 
fantastic experiences in the camaraderie of it all, 
but unknown new songs, and many of the recent 
ones, didnt spark any connection and felt like forced 
listenings. Miller teased the use of more classic, 90s-style 
hip-hop beats, which elevated his music to a much more 
mature level and hopefully becomes a constant in his 
future releases. Perhaps Miller may be successful in his 
recent attempt to be taken seriously, if only he can keep 
up a consistent and quality product.
What kept Miller going was his own undeniably 
charming personality. His frequent shout-outs to 
Pittsburgh  and Squirrel Hill in particular  elicited 
a fair amount of cheers and kept the moment feeling 
special. Miller made a concerted effort to engage the 
crowd  multiple songs were prefaced by a call to put 
your hands in the air  and was often met with a warm 
response. By the end, however, getting loud began to 
feel like more of an obligation than a privilege.   
Despite the few downsides, what made the Carnival 
Concert a great event was seeing the students of 
Carnegie Mellon get lost in a celebration on the Cut, 
right in front of the rows of academic buildings that we 
are forced to lose ourselves in almost every other day of 
the semester. The concert was two hours of letting loose 
and enjoying being young, which is a feeling Carnegie 
Mellon students should probably feel more often.
Joey Peiser | Pillbox Editor
Carnival concert turns the Cut into a party
Icona Pop, Mac Miller allow students to forget they go to Carnegie Mellon for two hours
Michelle Wan | Art Editor
Pittsburgh-native Mac Miller (left) headlined Fridays Carnival concert along with Swedish duo Icona Pop, 
 which is comprised of Aino Jawo (right) and Caroline Hjelt.
Jonathan Leung | Photo Editor
Jonathan Leung | Photo Editor
Fridays Carnival concert gave Carnegie Mellon students a chance to get wild on the Cut.

---------------------------------------------------

comedy
pillbox 04.14.145
Carnival comedians score big laughs in tent
Hannibal Buress and Tig Notaro perform entertaining sets tailored for Carnegie Mellon
This is what Google Glass is made for! said stand-up 
comedian, actor, and Spring Carnival Comedy Show 
headliner Hannibal Buress. And he was right: The Spring 
Carnival Comedy Show with comedians Tig Notaro and 
Buress was the best Ive seen during my four years here, 
full of potential runaway trains, a ballerina rap, and a 
certain turkey leg.
Both of the performers are highly-praised stand-up 
comedians on the cusp of national fame, well-suited for 
the 100th Spring Carnivals annual Comedy Show. 
Notaro has been performing comedy for 17 years (having 
appeared on NPRs This American Life and Conan), is 
a writer for Comedy Centrals Inside Amy Schumer, 
and most notably gained critical acclaim for her 2013 
Grammy-nominated stand-up album Live, in which she 
recounted her deeply personal and recent ordeals with 
breast cancer, undergoing a double mastectomy, and the 
death of her mother.
Buress is a stand-up comedian who has worked as a 
writer for Saturday Night Live and 30 Rock, and released 
his hour-long Comedy Central special Live from Chicago 
on March 29. 
After a short delay and an introduction from AB Comedy 
Chairs sophomore history major Ramya Chinta and 
sophomore materials science and engineering major 
Mariana Rodriguez, Notaro took to the stage. She was 
self-deprecating, whether it came to her own physical 
appearance or the venue she found herself in. Ive 
been doing stand-up for the past 17 years, Notaro said, 
and walking into a carnival, I feel blessed. One of the 
funniest moments was when she recounted trying to 
impress a classmate with her musical tastes, speci?cally 
the introduction to the Rolling Stones You Cant 
Always Get What You Want, and realizing that the 
introductory chorus was a little lackluster.
Notaro was able to improvise well, both with the 
Carnegie Mellon environment and the unfortunate 
crowd interruptions that occurred. While her material on 
impressions seemed to drag on just a bit too long, her 
stage presence and good rapport with the crowd made 
her worthy of being the headliner in her own right.
After Notaros set concluded with a standing ovation 
 despite any annunciation confusion  Buress 
began with a highly Carnegie Mellon-centric opening. 
Discussing Call Me Maybe playing from a fraternity 
and how an audience member in the front row was 
recording the show with Google Glass, Buress was 
able to personalize and improvise his set with hilarious 
results.
Buress asked the audience how many people saw 
his recent Comedy Central special. After hearing the 
response, he said that it was a good amount of people, 
but not good enough to not use jokes from the special in 
his current performance. Any comedy fan who watches 
Buress thus may have recognized his stories about 
opening for Tracy Morgan and wanting Will Smith to 
die before him. However, this comment wasnt a strike 
against Buress; it was more of a testament to having 
incredibly timely, relevant, and entertaining comedians 
for the Spring Carnival Comedy Show.
While some of the material was familiar, he entertained 
with new jokes and stories as well. Ive taken 
Adderall just to clean up my apartment, but I never 
?nish, Buress said. I get distracted by something from 
my past, like my high school yearbook. One of the most 
interesting aspects of the show was his use of music and 
prerecorded stand-up bits, triggered by Buresss DJ and 
man with the best job in the house Tony Trimm. Talking 
about how ridiculous rap lyrics can be (A crib in every 
state? Both Dakotas?) and how fraternity hazing must 
occur at Carnegie Mellon (You need to build a robot. 
With mustard. And a coat hanger.), Buress had the 
packed Midway Tent consistently amused.
This years Spring Carnival Comedy Show was the 
funniest one Ive been to since I enrolled here in fall 2010. 
Notaro and Buresss solid material, ability to improvise, 
and crowd engagement made for one of the best events 
at Carnival this year.
Josh Smith | Contributing Editor
Maryyann Landlord | Comics Editor
Hannibal Burress and Tig Notaro performed in front 
of a packed Midway tent on Thursday evening, and 
kept the audience laughing throughout each of their 
respective routines.
Maryyann Landlord | Comics Editor
Hannibal Buress entertained the crowd with a hilarious 
set that was filled with references to Carnegie Mellon, 
including a hilarious speculation on fraternity hazing.

---------------------------------------------------

6carnival
pillbox 04.14.14
While parties raged through Oakland Saturday night, a 
group of enthusiastic young ?lmmakers and ?lmlovers 
gathered in McConomy Auditorium for the second 
annual SHOT FOR SHOT Student Film Festival. The 
event was created last year by Carnegie Mellon students 
to showcase innovative work being done by students in 
Pittsburgh, and the creators successfully accomplished 
what they set out to do. This year, the event continued 
to be welcomed by the Pittsburgh community  the 
festival received over 30 ?lm submissions from four 
different schools throughout Pittsburgh. One school in 
particular that took full advantage of this event was Point 
Park University. Festival Chair and ?fth-year business 
administration major Nick Hurt said the Festival 
Committee can safely say that the eleven ?lms we have 
hand-chosen ... showcase the raw talent, intellect, and 
ingenuity of student ?lmmakers coming in and out of 
this city.
SHOT FOR SHOT was divided into two programs, the 
?rst featuring PG-rated short ?lms and the second 
featuring R-rated shorts. Between the two programs, 
there was a short intermission and a look at some works 
that are currently in the making.
The eleven ?lms showcased the creativity of the student 
?lmmakers with diverse tones, genres, and plots. The 
audience experienced everything from dramas and 
comedies to sci-? and documentaries.
A highlight from the ?rst program was Milk, a fourminute ?lm directed by sophomore creative writing and 
information systems double major Chris Compendio. 
The humorous short follows an argument between two 
roommates regarding whether milk would spontaneously 
appear in a cereal bowl if they wait long enough. The 
?lm represented a very Carnegie Mellon-esque argument 
with one roommates use of the laws of physics to 
back up his ridiculous claim that the milk would 
spontaneously appear. This ?lm was a simple, enjoyable 
one that kept viewers laughing from start to ?nish.
Another highlight from the ?rst program was Concealer, 
co-directed by ?rst-year directing major Ariel Zucker 
and ?rst-year musical theatre major Iris Beaumier. 
This powerful short shows four different girls applying 
makeup. At ?rst, they apply a small amount, the amount 
that they probably wear on a day-to-day basis. As the 
?lm progresses, however, they use more and more 
makeup until it resembles war paint. 
The ?lm features only loud music rather than dialogue, 
which grows in intensity with the content of the ?lm. 
In a ?lmmakers panel after all of the ?lms were shown, 
Beaumier shared her and Zuckers inspiration for the 
?lm. I heard this quote once that there are things done 
to women, and there are things they do to themselves, 
and we wanted to look at that through makeup, 
Beaumier said.
An inspiring documentary short in the ?rst program was 
Throne, directed by Point Park senior ?lm major Nathan 
Osche. Throne follows the story of Jonathan Stark, who 
was left paralyzed and in a wheelchair after a serious car 
crash. Stark refuses to let his circumstances keep him 
from following his dreams, however, and participates 
in a sport called wheelchair motocross, or WCMX. 
Starks continual optimism and determination to do a 
back?ip in his wheelchair is inspiring, and ful?lling as he 
accomplishes his goal.
The second program was much darker in tone and 
featured some of the most creative story lines. One that 
stood out in particular was Dot, directed by Point Park 
senior directing major Garrett Kennell and Point Park 
junior cinema production major David Light. Dot is about 
a young girl with OCD who feels she must kill anyone 
who makes a mess. However, she is taken off-guard 
when a cute boy takes an interest in her and shows her 
that messy can be good.
Kennell said the inspiration for the story came to him 
in the shower. I had this image of an old fat man in his 
underwear in his bedroom. And then I thought, What if 
this guy was a serial killer? And then I thought, What if 
he was an innocent girl? And then somehow we went 
from that to this, he said.
Much of the making of Dot followed a similar growing 
pattern. Kennell later added that the short was originally 
going to be three minutes and cost about $200, but 
became longer and longer until it got to be the much 
more expensive thirty-minute ?lm it is now. The 
directors are hoping to make it into a feature-length ?lm.
Another unique piece in the second program was Rage, 
directed by senior Point Park ?lm major Ryan Boosel. The 
?lm follows Kurt Niles after he came back from the dead 
to seek revenge on the man who killed him. It resembles 
movies like Watchmen with its dark, graphic-novel vibe 
and gory, over-the-top content.
In the end, Rage took the Special Jury Prize, while the 
Grand Jury Prize went to Throne, and the Audience 
Award was given to Dot. The Audience Award was 
chosen after counting ballots that audience members 
?lled out after the end of the second program.
Overall, SHOT FOR SHOT set out what it aimed to do 
 showcase the diverse creativity and talent of student 
?lmmakers in the Pittsburgh area.
Jenna Bodnar | Assistant Pillbox Editor
Film festival reels students into McConomy
SHOT FOR SHOT shows 11 student ?lms during Saturday night Spring Carnival screenings
Courtesy of Todd Medema
Sophomore economics and decision sciences double 
major Jeremy Wheeler introduces a film.
Left:  Awards for the film festival are lined up. Right: Students watch one of 11 films presented at the festival.
Courtesy of Todd Medema

---------------------------------------------------

carnival
pillbox 04.14.147
Amidst the events and festivities over Carnival, it can 
be hard to focus on any responsibilities during those few 
days. 
However, the members of ScotchnSoda produced a 
fantastic and well put-together performance of The 
25th Annual Putnam County Spelling Bee, displaying 
hard work and focus even during such a busy time. It 
was great to see quality acting, an interesting and fun 
storyline, engaging dialogue, and creative set design 
that involved the audience.
The show is centered around a spelling bee competition 
in the ?ctional Putnam Valley Middle School. The 
characters are the six contestants of the spelling bee, 
who are each quirky and have complex backstories, 
as well as two adults who are as equally quirky and 
ridiculous. 
As the musical progresses, each character reveals a 
connection to the spelling bee and the importance 
of winning the competition. Each character has a 
backstory that deals with a relationship or situation 
in their life that adds a complex meaning to their 
participation in the spelling bee. 
Olive (played by sophomore voice major Shannyn 
Rinker), a shy girl competing in the spelling bee, 
reveals her distant relationship with her parents  
who are not present to watch her compete  and her 
yearning for their affection. 
Marcy, (played by senior costume design major Abby 
Botnick), another contestant who appears extremely 
knowledgeable and intimidating throughout the show, 
performs a musical number I Speak Six Languages 
in which she reveals the stress and pressure she 
experiences from her family to excel at many things. 
After, she purposely misspells a word and is disquali?ed 
from the competition. 
The contestants all slowly develop relationships among 
each other throughout the course of the play, which also 
affect the outcome of their competition.
The acting in the show was great; each actor portrayed 
unique mannerisms and voices for the characters, giving 
an immediate sense of what the characters were like. 
Rinker maintained Olives reserved quality even as she 
revealed the complexity of the relationship with her 
parents and performed her musical numbers, especially 
The I Love You Song. 
Barfe, the cocky contestant set on winning, played by 
junior voice major Ethan Crystal, was humorous and 
engaging in his tactics, saying I know when he was 
told that he spelled a word correctly. 
The acting made the show humorous, fun, and a 
pleasure to watch, and was especially impressive for 
a show like this one that requires a decent amount of 
comedic improvisation from its actors.
The members of ScotchnSoda arranged the plays 
set in such a way as to involve the audience as much 
as possible. At times, the actors walked through the 
audience and out the back door of the theater when 
going off stage. During intermission, an actor portraying 
a snack boy walked around the audience, and as the 
show resumed, he went straight from the audience onto 
the stage to perform his music number Chips Lament. 
The audience thus also served as the audience for the 
spelling bee in the show, adding a creative and engaging 
touch to the play.
Overall, ScotchnSoda put on a great production that 
was funny and fun to watch. Student reactions were 
glowing, with ?rst-year undeclared Dietrich College 
student Laura Gunsalus calling the show very cute and 
charming and ?rst-year business administration student 
Brian Walsh praising ScotchnSodas ability to perform 
a musical that relies as much on improvisation as it does 
on written music. 
The great acting, storyline, and set made the show fun 
to be a part of. During the busy time of Spring Carnival, 
it can be dif?cult to put hard work and effort into a show, 
but the members of ScotchnSoda did a fantastic job 
with their acting and set design to create a wonderful 
and engaging spelling bee.
Sasha Kerbel | Junior Staffwriter
Who thought a spelling bee could be so funny?
ScotchnSoda makes a hit with 25th Annual Putnam County Spelling Bee Carnival show 
Andie Park | Staffwriter
The Hobbit: Desolation of Smaug
Friday, April 18
10
The journey of Bilbo Baggins (Martin Freeman) continues as he ventures through Middle Earth with the wise old Gandalf (Sir Ian McKellan) and his team of dwarves in the second 
?lm of the trilogy of J.R.R Tolkeins The Hobbit. In an initially unexpected journey that sets up the ?rst movie, Bilbo is forced to team up with dwarf leader Thorin Oakenshield to 
reclaim Oakenshields lost kingdom. What ensues soon after includes everything from giant spiders, elves (ladies, the heartthrob Legolas makes a return  sigh!), and an epic 
?re-breathing dragon voiced by the one and only Benedict Cumberbatch. Unlike its predecessor, The Hobbit: The Desolation of Smaug jumps straight into action with incredibly 
imaginative storytelling that manages to be immersive with its special effects and direction. The movie revives the trilogys energy and reminds us of the magic that we as 
audience members can never get enough of.
dollarmovie
McConomy Auditorium, University Center

---------------------------------------------------

8carnival
pillbox 04.14.14
The sun was shining, the wind was blowing gently, and 
on the Morewood parking lot, lines for booths snaked 
endlessly across the pavement this weekend for the 
one-hundredth Spring Carnival: Best of the Best.
From Pirates of the Caribbean to One Booth to Rule 
Them All, the booths were a hit with visitors: alumni, 
families, and students alike.
Fraternity and sorority of?cial winners Sigma Phi 
Epislons Lord of the Rings booth and Kappa Alpha 
Thetas Pirates of the Caribbean booths were similarly 
fantastic, featuring intricate details that paid homage 
to the classic stories they portrayed.
This year, we award our second annual Boothy Awards 
in what were, although not necessarily category 
winners, some of the best booths of the 100th Spring 
Carnival. Without further ado, here is the second 
edition of the Boothies.
The Hipster Boothy for Best Design
Fringes booth Pittsburgh: The Best City in the World 
was unlike any weve seen during our time at Carnegie 
Mellon. Fringe creatively topped its booth with a yellow 
bridge similar to those Downtown. Better yet, Carnivalgoers could walk up a ?ight of steps to cross the bridge, 
and what better place for a picture opportunity is there 
than on top of a bridge?  Fringe also provided visitors 
with a sprawling view of the rest of the Midway with 
this design. While less impressive than the structure 
overhead, the room beneath the bridge  containing a 
racing game that allowed players to use water guns to 
squirt their own rubber duck through the three rivers 
of Pittsburgh to the ?nish line  was still an enjoyable 
experience.
The Pong Boothy for Best Game
While not strictly a game like the one in Sig Eps Lord 
of the Rings booth, Alpha Phis Monsters Inc. booth 
provided children with light-hearted entertainment 
through their activity. Sisters of the sorority surrounded 
a bed in which a still child, constructed from papier 
mch, lay. The sisters asked visitors to scream to wake 
the child up. When they screamed, he popped straight 
out of bed, like the child in the simulator in Monsters 
Inc. does when scarers like Sully put on their ?ercest 
growl. While seemingly less intensive than some other 
organizations activities, Alpha Phis scare game was 
creative and charming.
The Andy Warhol Boothy for Best Art
The ASA Charlie and the Chocolate Factory booth was 
colorful, fun, and wacky  one that Andy Warhol surely 
wouldve loved. The swirling pinwheels on the front of 
the house were one of many eye-catching features that 
made this booth worthy of the recognition for best art. 
Their crazy color schemes and the candy cut-outs were 
well suited for the booth, and the whole experience was 
fun and playful. ASAs work paid off this year, and the 
booth featured the best art on Midway.
The Andrew Mellon Boothy for Most Underrated 
Booth
Delta Delta Deltas St. Jude Hospital booth was not only 
whimsical and fun, but had an additional philanthropic 
aspect that other booths did not. The booth was 
modeled after the hospital, which works with children 
who are battling cancer. Featuring the playroom, 
the prom room, and the celebration room, the booth 
represented an ongoing commitment to charity more 
than a three-day structure. The ?nal room included 
an area for donations to the hospital as well as a place 
for visitors to write down what theyre thankful for. 
Beautiful, magical, and heart-warming, the St. Jude 
booth deserved to be recognized.
The Hannibal Buress and Tig Nataro Boothy for 
Funniest Booth
Alpha Epsilon Pis The Simpsons booth was bound to 
be funny, and the fraternity delivered well. The booth 
was based on the popular, long-running and hilarious 
TV cartoon The Simpsons and played on familiar 
themes from the show in a manner that was humorous 
and effective. The booth was structured like the 
house from the show and featured quirky details and 
numerous references to the show to delight fans, such 
as a copy  of the In Rod We Trust magazine cover 
and a book titled Drinking Games for the Advanced 
Alcoholic. A walk through this booth was sure to be 
laughter-?lled, making it our clear choice for funniest 
booth.
Spring Carnival booths demonstrate 
The broadness of this years Carnival theme allowed for a great amount of 
The Asian Student Associations Charlie and the Chocolate Factory-inspired booth featured intricate artwork and a 
playful atmosphere, as well as a plethora of Oompa Loompas. 
Abhinav Guatam | Staff Photographer

---------------------------------------------------

carnival
pillbox 04.14.149
The Andrew Carnegie Boothy for Best Overall 
Booth
We hate to be unoriginal, but there was no comparison: 
Sig Ep once again built the best overall booth. 
Expectations were high, but the fraternity managed to 
once again go above and beyond. The sheer scale of 
the two-story recreation of the Hobbit house  from 
the tiniest details that were thoughtfully incorporated 
to the design to the incredibly advanced video game on 
the second ?oor  was even more impressive than last 
years Up booth. The effort they put in clearly paid off.
Conclusion
This years booths were some of the best weve seen 
while at Carnegie Mellon. Many of the booths seemed 
signi?cantly more complete than those constructed 
last year, and it was apparent that organizations put 
their all into making their booths live up to the hype 
surrounding the 100th Spring Carnival. This years 
Spring Carnival committee gambled big with the theme 
Best of the Best by giving students open reign to 
build any booth they desired, but it was clearly the 
right choice for such a milestone celebration.
Laura Scherb | Operations Manager
Braden Kelner | Editor-in-Chief
Editors Note: Results are uncom?rmed by Carnival 
Committee and may not be complete.
Top: Delta Gammas Despicable Me-themed booth 
won third place in the booth division.
 Right: Alpha Epsilon Pis Simpsons-themed booth 
featured hilarious rooms riddled with references to the 
show, including replicas of the famous living room and 
Moes Tavern.                 Abhinav Guatam | Staff Photographer
Abhinav Guatam | Staff Photographer
Fraternity
1) Sigma Phi Epsilon
2) Alpha Epsilon Pi
3) Delta Tau Delta
Sorority
1) Kappa Alpha Theta
2) Kappa Kappa Gamma
3) Delta Gamma
Independent
1) ASA
2) SSA
3) TSA
Blitz
1) Phi Delta Theta
2) Mayur
3) MCS
T-shirt Design
TSA
Environmental
Math Club
Awards Ceremony Results
what it takes to be the best of the best
creativity and freedom that produced a diverse range of impressive booths

---------------------------------------------------

carnival
pillbox 04.14.141110carnival
pillbox 04.14.14
Top Left: The normally reserved Carnegie Mellon 
crowd showed its wilder side as they cheered on 
Fridays Carnival concert performers.
Above: Senior business administration major and popular student musician Kai Roberts opened the night 
with a well-received set wherein he performed songs 
off his debut album Carnegie Caf. 
Right: Icona Pop get ready to perform another song. 
Center: Mac Miller tells the haters to talk to the hand. 
Bottom: The members of Icona Pop give each other a 
hand in finishing their drinks.
Michelle Wan | Art Editor
Top Left: Mac Miller challenges the crowd to dare admit if 
they are not entertained. 
Top Right: Mac Miller gets the crowd going by asking them 
to put their hands in the air.
Above: Having grown up in Squirrell Hill, Mac Miller made 
numerous shout outs to his hometown and  reminisced 
about attending Carnival concerts as a kid. 
Left: Icona Pop belt out one of their feel-good party anthems.
Michelle Wan | Art Editor
Jonathan Leung | Photo Editor
Jonathan Leung | Photo Editor
Jonathan Leung | Photo EditorJonathan Leung | Photo Editor
Michelle Wan | Art Editor
Michelle Wan | Art Editor
Michelle Wan | Art Editor

---------------------------------------------------

carnival
pillbox 04.14.141312carnival
pillbox 04.14.14
Abhinav Gautam | Staff Photographer

---------------------------------------------------

14carnival
pillbox 04.14.14
Top Left: This vintage-inspired, eye-catching sign 
welcomed visitors into Delta Tau Deltas Coney Island 
themed booth, which won third in the fraternity division. Top Right: Carnival goers enjoyed ideal weather 
and breathtaking sunsets Thursday night. Above Left: 
The Taiwanese Student Association made a Hayao 
Miyazaki inspired booth, complete with the beloved 
Totoro from My Neighbor Totoro and forest spirits 
from Princess Mononoke. Right: Visitors wait in line 
to enter Kappa Kappa Gammas Wreck-It Ralph booth, 
which won second in the sorority division.
                  Abhinav Guatam | Staff Photographer
Abhinav Guatam | Staff Photographer
Abhinav Guatam | Staff Photographer
Abhinav Guatam | Staff Photographer

---------------------------------------------------

carnival
pillbox 04.14.1415
Abhinav Guatam | Staff Photographer
Top Left: Abdel Bourai, a brother of Phi Delta Theta, proudly hoists the first place trophy, 
which the fraternity won for the Blitz category. Top Right: Sigma Phi Epsilon won first 
place in the fraternity division with their Lord of the Rings inspired booth. Above Right: A 
group of sisters of Kappa Alpha Theta happily accept the first place trophy in the sorority 
division for their booth. Left: Kappa Alpha Theta used The Pirates of the Caribbean movies 
as inspiration for their winning booth.
Abhinav Guatam | Staff Photographer
Abhinav Guatam | Staff Photographer
Abhinav Guatam | Staff Photographer

---------------------------------------------------

16carnival
pillbox 04.14.14

---------------------------------------------------

carnival
pillbox 04.14.1417
Right and below left: Crowds line up to walk through 
the booths. Below right: The sun shines on Morewood 
Parking Lot. Opposite top: Midway lights up on opening night. Opposite: MCS, Phi Delt, and ASA booths 
were among the crowd favorites.
Abhinav Gautam  | Staff Photographer
Scenes from Best of the Best
The 100th annual Spring Carnival spanned over the Morewood parking lot for the last time, 
and crowds ?ocked to the booths, 
rides, and concessions.

---------------------------------------------------

18carnival
pillbox 04.14.14
Jenna Bodnar | Assistant Pillbox Editor 
Joey Peiser | Pillbox Editor
Carnival through the years
50years ago
May 6, 1964
The 1964 Carnival boasted an impressive new addition: a 
full-size Ferris wheel, the first of what would become many 
rides at the Midway. The buggy races see numerous crashes, 
including a race that is rescheduled when two buggies collide 
trying to avoid a pusher who fell on the track. Sigma Alpha 
Epsilon and Beta Theta Pi end up tying for first place, with 
Sigma Alpha Epsilon choosing to cede the winning title to Beta 
Theta Pi. Comedian Tony Garland and the Tony Powell Orchestra 
entertain the crowd on Saturday evening, and popular all-male 
vocal group The Four Preps perform the Friday concert.
25years ago
Apr. 18, 1989
Due to construction, Carnival is forced to relocate to the Cut 
and suffers numerous cutbacks, such as a limited number of 
rides, due to the space constraints. The years Booth theme, 
Toyland, allows for a childlike atmosphere on Midway, with 
Delta Tau Delta taking fraternity first place for their Fisher Price 
Garage booth and Chi Omega taking sorority first place for their 
Jack-in-the-Box booth. SPIRIT dominates the years buggy 
races, taking home first place in both the mens and womens 
divisions. 
10years ago
Apr. 14, 2004
Pittsburgh graciously offers two days of beautiful weather, which 
allow two full days of buggy races to occur for the first time in 
over a decade. The Pi Kappa Alpha womens team sets a new 
course record, and Kappa Kappa Gamma becomes the first 
all-female organization to enter a buggy team into Sweepstakes. 
Comedian Mitch Hedberg packs the Midway tent to nearly 
double its capacity, and the Pharell-led band N.E.R.D. arrives 
nearly thirty minutes late due to travel problems before rocking 
the CFA lawn with an energetic performance.
5years ago
Apr. 21, 2009
Before The Hangover became everyones favorite comedy, 
Zach Galifianakis comes to Carnegie Mellons campus as the 
comedian for Carnival. An Indie Canadian band, The New 
Pornographers, perform at the concert, and ScotchnSoda 
put on Me and My Girl. SDC knock PiKA out of their spot as 
reigning champion for mens buggy with their record-setting 
2:03.26 run. The Carnival theme this year is Epic Adventures. 
Kappa Alpha Rho goes home with the gold for their booth 
named Kappa Alpha Rho Journeys to the Center of the Earth, 
and Kappa Kappa Gamma win in the sorority category with 
their James and the Giant Peach booth.
1year ago
Apr. 22, 2013
The College of Fine Arts hosts its fourth annual Anti-Gravity 
Downhill Derby, which began as a class project in 2010 and 
has since grown in participation from CFA students. The derby 
pokes fun at Carnivals stress on Buggy, and features often 
scantily-clad students dressed as moving art. The weekend also 
includes a performance by Lupe Fiasco and ScotchnSodas 
rendition of Assassins. The theme of Carnival is Fractured 
Fairy Tales. Sig Ep wins with their SigUp booth based on the 
Pixar movie Up, and Delta Gamma wins with their innovative 
interpretation of Coraline.
 File photo by Kate Groschner
File photo by Jonathan Carreon
File photo
File photo
File photo
File photo

---------------------------------------------------

comics
pillbox 04.14.1419
Game Theory by xkcd
buttersafe@gmail.com  
Vomit by Alex Culang and Raynato Castro
www.buttersafe.com
press@xkcd.comxkcd.com

---------------------------------------------------

20comics
pillbox 04.14.14
Saving Stray Animals by DogHouse Diaries
doghousediaries@gmail.comthedoghousediaries.com

---------------------------------------------------

puzzles
pillbox 04.14.1421
Solutions from Apr. 7
CrosswordTough DifficultyTough Difficulty
Maze Puzzle: Tough Difficulty Kakuro Puzzle: Tough Difficulty
Kakuro courtesy of www.KrazyDad.comMaze courtesy of www.KrazyDad.com
Fill all empty squares using numbers 1 to 9 so the sum of 
each row equals the clue on its left, and the sum of each 
column equals the clue at its top. No number may be used 
in the same row or column more than once.
Start from the top left entrance and find your way out of the 
maze on the bottom right. 

---------------------------------------------------

22horoscopes
pillbox 04.14.14
 1. Actor Cobb
 2. Too
 3. The two
 4. ___ can of worms
 5. Go in again
 6. Recover
 7. Suit to ___
 8. Swedish imports
 9. Entirely
10. Assemble
11. Unfettered
12. Lush
13. Pays to play
21. Days of ___
22. Egyptian deity
25. Attention
26. Pub missile
27. Mormon state of western USA
28. Facilitate
30. Sir ___ Newton was an English 
mathematician
35. New Mexico art colony
36. Killer whale
37. Phooey!
39. Postpone
41. ________ surgery opens the chest
44. Wicked
45. Craze
47. Neat as ___
48. Makes sorrowful
53. Played the part
54. Took care of
55. Country singer Travis
56.Everglades bird
58. Shrub of the cashew family
61. Actress Petty
62. The ___ Ranger rode a horse called 
Silver 
63. ___ all-time high
64. Take five
66. USN rank
 1. Toil
 6. Tabula ___
10. Ingrids Casablanca role
14. Take the honey and run
15. Bibliography abbr.
16. Midday
17. Lauder of cosmetics
18. Bluey-green color
19. Joint problem
20. Confederate soldier
22. Dated
23. Yours, in Tours
24. Lounges
26. Expected
29. ...___ saw Elba
31. Exclamation of relief
32. ___ glance
33. Guns
34. Daniel Webster, e.g.
38. Coarse file, angry tone of voice
40. Devour
42. ___ avis
43. 1994 Denis Leary comedy
46. Cries of discovery
49. Fall mo.
50. Eggs
51. Nightclub of song
52. KLM rival
53. Straddling
57. Frees (of)
59. Christmas song
60. Pertaining to the thyroid or 
adrenal, e.g.
65. Thin offshoot
66. Gators kin
67. Overact
68. Words to Brutus
69. Persian fairy
70. Grandmas
71. Lavish affection (on)
72. Ear-related 
73. Hounds trail 
ACROSSDOWN
Horoscopes
aries
march 21april 19
The Shining (1980): A man, his wife, and their son become 
winter caretakers of an isolated hotel where Danny, the son, 
sees disturbing visions of the hotels past using a telepathic 
gift known as the shining.
taurus
april 20may 20
Donnie Darko (2001): A troubled teenager is plagued by 
visions that manipulate him to commit a long series of 
crimes after narrowly escaping a crazy accident. 
gemini
may 21june 21
Her (2013): A lonely writer develops a curious relationship 
with his newly purchased computer operating system that is 
designed to meet his every need. 
cancer
june 22july 22
Vertigo (1958): A retired San Francisco detective suffering 
from acrophobia investigates the odd activities of an old 
friends wife. He slowly becomes dangerously obsessed 
with her.
leo
july 23aug. 22 
Pulp Fiction (1994): A conglomeration of the lives of two 
mob hit men, a boxer, a gangsters wife, and a pair of diner 
bandits intertwine in four tales of violence, romance, and 
redemption. 
virgo
aug. 23sept. 22
Princess Bride (1987): The classic fairy tale with swordplay, 
giants, evil princes, adventure, and a beautiful princess. 
Explore the book of Princess Bride read by a kindly 
grandfather. 
libra
sept. 23oct. 22
The Phantom of the Opera (1986): A disfigured musical 
genius, hidden away in the Paris Opera House, terrorizes 
the opera company for the benefit of a young protge 
whom he loves.
scorpio
oct. 23nov. 21
Casino Royale (2006): James Bond goes on his first 
mission as 007. He participates in an intense poker game 
at Montenegro where he must win back his money to stay 
safe among the terrorist market.
sagittarius
nov. 22dec. 21
Jurassic Park (1993): During the preview tour of a new 
theme park, the park suffers a major power breakdown that 
turns the pleasant dinosaur tour into a zoo of horrors. 
capricorn
dec. 22jan. 19
Titanic (1997): A young aristocrat, expected to be married 
to a rich claimant, falls in love with a poor but kind artist 
aboard the luxurious, ill-fated ship,Titanic.
aquarius
jan. 20feb. 18
The Dark Knight (2008): Batman is back again and raises 
the stakes in his war on crime. With the help of Jim Gordon 
and Harvey Dent, Batman sets out to dismantle the 
remaining criminal organizations in Gotham. Chaos breaks 
out when Batman meets his greatest rival, The Joker. 
pisces
feb. 19march 20
The Sound of Music (1965): A woman leaves an Austrian 
convent to become a governess to the children of a 
widower Naval officer.
Maryyann Landlord | Comics Editor
Crossword courtesy of BestCrosswords.com

---------------------------------------------------

calendar
pillbox 04.14.1423
MONDAY 4.14.14
Daniel Arnaldos, Tenor. 
Mellon Institute Auditorium. 8 p.m.
First-year graduate student in music composition  as 
well as an accomplished opera singer  Daniel Arnaldos 
will perform a set of Spanish art songs. This event is free 
and open to the public.
WEDNESDAY 4.16.14
Jeff Miller. Skibo Cafe. 7:30 p.m.
Nashville-based singer-songwriter Jeff Miller will be 
performing in Skibo. Stop by for some chill country tunes 
to go with your Skibo pizza. This event is free and open to 
the public.
THURSDAY 4.17.14
Sarah Steranka, Flute. Kresge Theatre, CFA. 8 p.m.
Senior ?ute performance major Sarah Steranka will 
perform the works of Gieseking, Amirov, Mozart, Yarnell, 
and Reich. This event is free and open to the public.
FRIDAY 4.18.14
Evan Kahn, Cello. Mellon Institute Auditorium. 7 p.m.
Junior cello performance major Evan Kahn will be 
preforming a recital comprised entirely of original pieces 
 including one written by his father  in their world 
premiere performances. This event is free and open to the 
public.
Walls That Soak. Brew House Association. 6 p.m.
Free and open to the public, this opening reception 
features collaborative large-scale installations that engage 
ideas of art and architecture by constructing concrete 
forms out of sensory cues that resemble mental rather 
than physical conceptions of architecture.
SATURDAY 4.19.14
Kahli Dalbow, Soprano. 
Kresge Theatre, CFA. 7:30 p.m.
Senior vocal performance major Kahli Dalbow will perform 
the works of Handel, Dvork, Hahn, Schubert, and Ricky 
Ian Gordon. This event is free and open to the public.
Scooby Doo Live! Benedum Center. 8 p.m.
Hop into the Mystery Machine and grab some Scooby 
Snax; Mystery Inc. is taking the stage for this live-action 
adaptation of the classic childrens television series. 
Tickets start at $23 and can be purchased online at 
trustarts.culturaldistrict.org.
OPENING
Lives of the Saints. Phillip Chosky Theater, Purnell. 
Through April 26.
Lives of the Saints is a series of witty playlets that inhabit 
a colorful world of dopplegangers, bumbling detectives, 
Mesopotamian construction workers, and talking 
televisions. Tickets are $1729, depending on the day, 
with discounts available to Carnegie Mellon students.
Candida. OReilly Theater. Through May 18.
Presented by the Pittsburgh Public Theater, George 
Bernard Shaws Candida tells the story of Candida, who 
is caught in the middle of a romantic war between her 
practical husband John Morell and the passionate poet 
Eugene Marchbanks. Tickets start at $23 and can be 
purchased at trustarts.culturaldistrict.org.
ONGOING
Pantagleize. Lexington Technology Center. 
Through April 27.
Directed by Carnegie Mellon associate professor Jed 
Allen Harris, Quantum Theatres production of Pantagleize 
freely adapts the 1929 Michel de Ghelderode play of the 
same name and focuses on beat poet Allen Ginsberg, 
who is off to be King of May in Prague, but runs into 
a quirky guide, a sexy spy, and a nasty dictator along 
the way. Tickets start at $36 and can be purchased at 
quantumtheatre.com.
Lossless. Miller Gallery. Through April 20. 
This exhibition of Carnegie Mellon School of Art master 
of ?ne arts candidates features large-scale installations, 
video, and generative sound art by artists Carl Bajandas, 
Oreen Cohen, and Yun Mi Her. Admission is free and 
open to the public.
RACE: Are We So Different? Carnegie Museum of 
Natural History. Through Oct. 27.
This exhibit explores the experience of living with race 
in America, using interactive multimedia components, 
photographs, iconic objects, and historical artifacts.
Rhythm and Bulbs. Phipps Conservatory. 
Through April 20. 
This years spring ?ower show combines music with 
Phipps collection of exotic ?owers and garden designs. 
From one room to the next, music genres switch from 
swing and big band to rock.
Compiled by Joey Peiser | Pillbox Editor
Editors Note: Evan Kahn is an Assistant Copy Manager 
for The Tartan.
Want your event here?
Email calendar@thetartan.org.

---------------------------------------------------

24gallery
pillbox 04.14.14
Sara Remi Fields | Assistant Photo Editor
The Carnegie Mellon Kiltie Band stepped off of the football ?eld  
Thursday afternoon to welcome an eager crowd to the 100th Carnival. 
The trademark Tartan bagpipes blared as the Kiltie Band marched 
between the booths and into the Midway Tent for a performance. 
kiltie band.
