Adieu to apathy
A recent wave of student activism 
threatens the status quo on campus. 
Pillbox, 6
Big day on the water
Mens crew takes the Governor's 
Cup at Head of the Ohio.
Sports, All
Violent crimes
CMU professors receive over $1 million to 
study violence and psychiatric disorders. 
SciTech, A6
Founded in igo6 
Independent since 2002THETARTAN
Richelmi confirmed as new VP of finance
by Kirk Higgins
Junior Staffwriter
The Student Senate and the 
Graduate Student Assembly (GSA) 
voted in a new student body vice 
president of finance last Thursday 
by a nearly unanimous vote. The 
position has been vacant since Jeff 
Plate, senior in ECE, resigned from 
the office in early fall. The need to 
fill the position was dire, according 
to Senator Erik Michaels-Ober, 
Communications Committee chair 
and a junior philosophy major.
Although not a voting member, 
the vice president of finance over
sees the way the Joint Funding 
Committee (JFC) allots its funds to 
school-sponsored organizations and 
clubs. Last Thursday, Student 
Senate held a meeting in the 
Peter/McKenna/Wright Lounge of 
the University Center and elected to 
appoint Paul Richelmi, CMU senior 
in philosophy, to the position of Vice 
President of Finance. Richelmi was 
the only candidate who had submit
ted a validated petition, which 
required 100 signatures from the 
CMU student body and was due 
September 26. GSA had already 
approved him for the position at an 
earlier date. Richelmi had attended 
the GSA meeting, but was unable to 
attend the Student Senate meeting 
due to class conflicts. He wrote and 
submitted an apologetic note to the 
meeting which described his situa
tion and gave several reasons why 
he believed he should be approved 
for the position. Normally, Student 
Senate questions all candidates 
thoroughly during meetings before 
deciding to fill vacancies. Despite 
his absence, the Student Senate 
approved him overwhelmingly with 
a vote of 21 to 1.
Richelmi had served on the 
Student Senate for the last five 
semesters. He was the Academic 
Affairs Committee Chair for a year 
and was the Senate Chair during the 
fall of 2002. During his last semes
ter, he served on the Funding and 
Recognition Committee and is currpnflv a mpmhpr nf thp Siama Phi
Epsilon fraternity.
Through that time, I believed I 
have served my constituents and the 
school well, Richelmi wrote to the 
Tartan and Student Senate. I have 
the experience for the position. 
Along with my experience listed 
above, I have served on the JFC for 
two semesters, chairing the body for 
one of those. My familiarity with the 
process of funding, recognition, 
constitutional fiscal issues, and JFC 
rules is thorough and my under
standing of the needs of campus 
organizations is complete. It is with 
that understanding that I would, if 
elected, conduct a long overdue 
investigation of the entire JFC 
process. The process can be stream
lined and made more efficient. 
While I dont advocate reform just 
yet, I think a probe into the process 
could go a long way to refining the 
way student money is spent and 
allocated.
Before the vote, many Senators 
had openly endorsed approving him 
to the position during the discussion 
portion of the meeting. He has a lot 
of experience, said Megan Flocken, 
a Student Senator and senior in phi
losophy and English. We need 
someone with that experience with 
the student body and student gov
ernment to work efficiently. Hes 
shown lots of experience and 
responsibility in the past.
Other Senators had elected to fill 
the vacancy more on the basis of 
necessity and practicality.
I knew Paul for a year when I 
joined the Senate, said MichaelsOber. I know hes done good things 
as Senate Chair and Activities Chair. 
Im very confident hell do a better 
job than have the seat left vacant. 
We really need a vice president of 
finance to get the Joint Funding 
Committee started. He is needed to 
serve on that committee.
Richelmi is excited about his 
future as vice president of finance 
and expects to bring about positive 
change for the student body.
As vice president of finance, 
Richelmi said he would consider
Spp FT F.( TION napp A4
Senate says 
no to USSA 
proposal
by Lucas Yiannatji
Junior Staffwriter
The Carnegie Mellon Undergraduate 
Student Senate met Thursday night 
and, among other items, discussed 
the possibility of the Universitys join
ing the United States Student 
Association (USSA). The USSA is the 
countrys oldest and largest political 
lobbying body for students nation
wide. In the past they have been 
responsible for representing the 
issues of college students in 
Congress, and have been successful in 
gaining a $700 Pell grant increase in 
two years. They have stopped pro
posed legislation that would have 
restricted international students 
access to visas, and gained lowered 
interest rates on the Stafford loan. 
They have also petitioned Congress 
on non-student issues, including a 
reauthorization of the Violence 
Against Women Act, recently read
opted in Congress. Cost of member
ship for Carnegie Mellon would 
require a fee of $0.40 per student per 
semester.
The petition to join the USSA had 
99 signatures, which met the require
ment to be discussed in the Senate 
and voted on within two weeks. The 
petition called for putting the issue 
up to a referendum: a binding vote 
made by the entire student body. It 
was proposed by its two major sup
porters, Senator Erik Michaels-Ober, 
a junior in philosophy, and Senator 
Megan Flocken, a senior in philoso
phy and English. Student Senate 
debated over the referendum for 
about half an hour before finally 
deciding against it, in a vote of 9 to 
12, with one Senator abstaining. At 
the time of the vote, ten Senators 
were absent.
To bring an issue that has been 
rejected back before the Senate 
requires signatures from five percent 
of the student body (between 250 
and 300 people), in the next thirty 
days after the vote. If this is done, the 
referendum will again be put to a vote 
by the Senate.
On Friday, Michaels-Ober and 
Flocken set up a table on the first 
floor of the UC to begin gathering 
more signatures. They said that they 
had collected 150 student signatures 
in favor of the referendum in an hour 
and a half. Some Senators expressed 
their concerns Thursday over 
whether students who signed the 
original petition were fully aware of 
what they were signing, and whether 
they knew all the facts about USSA.
I think its a wonderful organiza
tion. If I didnt truly believe that we 
should be a member of the USSA, I 
wouldnt be petitioning on behalf of 
them, said Flocken. I encourage 
anyone actively to get involved in 
looking into this organization ... in 
no way am I trying to pull the wool 
over anyones eyes.
There were also criticisms that this 
would be a time burden on Senate, 
which some Senators claimed was 
already facing a full agenda.
Referendums do cost money. They 
cost your student activities fee money 
both to advertise and to make sure we 
get everybody out there to run every
thing, to make sure we get all the 
hardware, said Steven Kling, junior 
ECE major and one of the Senators 
against the referendum, in an inter
view Saturday.
Were already having one referen
dum and ... to have two votes at once 
would only take a fraction of time 
longer, said Michaels-Ober while 
collecting signatures on Friday. The 
referendum Michaels-Ober refers to 
has in fact not yet been voted on by 
the Senate, according to Student 
Body Vice President Gilbert Dussek. 
Dussek is the chair of the Student 
Activities Fee Committee which will 
present its recommendation on the 
matter to the Senate before the 
November 7 meeting of the 
Universitys Board of Trustees.
[Choosing our delegates] would
nt be a normal agenda. It would be 
something the students would vote 
on, and the Senate would approve the 
elections, said Michaels-Ober 
regarding the time burden on Senate.
Concerns were also debated on the J._ ---------  <5
See USSA, page A4 j
Schenley Plaza plan stalled
Paul Richelmi is the newly elected student vice president of finance. Approved 
with a nearly unanimous vote of 21 to 1, Richelmi pledges to investigate the Joint 
Funding Committee process, a source of much scrutiny in recent years.
by Kevin Chang
Staffwriter
Both CMU and the University of Pittsburgh are par
ticipating in the project, largely because the plaza 
would be useful to their students.
Located between Carnegie Mellon University and 
the University of Pittsburgh, [Schenley Plaza] was seen 
as a strategic space that could link the two universities 
in a seamless way and revitalize the community, said 
Heinz school professor Richard Florida, who has done 
numerous studies about the effects of parks on cities. 
According to Tellers, the plaza will also help CMU stu
dents mingle with Pitt students.
It would be a place to meet people, get a bite to eat, 
etc., Tellers said.
Right now, plans for the project call for a large central 
field surrounded by gardens and trees. Several small 
buildings will be located throughout the park, includ
ing first-class concession stands, a restaurant, public 
restrooms, and small stores.
Park planners hope to put chairs throughout the 
area, provide a moveable stage/performance area and 
allow people to walk on the grassy field.
It was believed that this would not only be an
See OAKLAND, page A4
Ponnurangam Kumaraguru/Junior Staff
Chock full of cracker
Erika Matsumoto, first-year in business administration; Sandy Ho, first-year in H&SS; Jessica Ma, sophomore in busi
ness; Katy Lin, first-year in design; and Wini Tse, first-year in design; participate in the Taiwanese Student Associations 
Battle of the Sexes, a friendly competition to bring students together.
Gandhis life story recounted
by James Tetlow
Junior Staffwriter
There is a little plot of land just a five-minute walk 
from campus, next to the Carnegie Museums and 
Library, right by Schenley Park. When it was sold to the 
city of Pittsburgh 100 years ago by Mary Schenley, the 
deed said it must be used for purposes of a public 
park. Right now, it is the Schenley Plaza Public Parking 
Lot. But for the last six years, a coalition of groups 
including the Oakland Task Force and the Pittsburgh 
Parks Conservancy has been working to turn Schenley 
Plaza into a community hub by changing it from the 
expanse of asphalt it currently is into the sort of park it 
was meant to be. The Oakland Task Force comprises 
residential groups and business circles within the city 
and acts as a forum for communication among all of its 
members.
[CMU] is always involved in city affairs, particularly 
in the Oakland and Squirrel Hill districts, said Paul 
Tellers, chairman of the Oakland Task Force and 
University architect. Were always in touch with city 
planning and our neighbors.
Jeff Cullers/Photo Editor
If a coalition of organizations including the Oakland Task Force and the Parks 
Conservancy have their way, Schenley Plaza will be dramatically changed.
J.T. Trollman/Assistant Photo Editor
Vijai Singh, from the University of Pittsburghs Office of the Chancellor, lectured 
on the life and non-violent protest practices of Mahatma Gandhi. His speech 
served as a reminder that Gandhis methods are still applicable in todays world.
Last Thursday marked the 130th 
anniversary of Mahatma Gandhis 
birth. In honor of Gandhis life, Vijai 
Singh, executive administrator from 
the Office of the Chancellor at the 
University of Pittsburgh, came to 
CMU to speak. The lecture, orga
nized by The University Lecture 
series, covered Gandhis life and how 
he came to develop his philosophy of 
nonviolent protest. Singh also 
recounted how Gandhi successfully 
brought about Indias independence 
before dying six months later from 
the attack of a religious fanatic.
Singh began the lecture by asking, 
What is the relevance of Gandhis 
philosophy to the world today? and 
then set the context for Gandhis life, 
explaining the British rule over India 
and British reliance on Indian civil 
servants trained by the British to 
maintain order. Gandhi realized that 
in order to change his society, he 
would have to mobilize the masses 
of India.
He was the peoples man 
throughout his life. He was a friend 
of human dignity, said Singh. The 
name Gandhi was given, Mahatma, 
reflects him well: it means Great 
Soul.
Singh said that originally Gandhi 
did not seem destined to lead India 
to freedom. He was trained as a 
lawyer in England, where he learned 
many of the values that he later lived 
by. Gandhi also learned to respect 
the British people a great deal, 
which puzzled many of his contem
poraries, who felt he was not as 
harsh towards them as he should 
have been, despite Gandhis firm no
compromise stance on Indias inde
pendence.
He did not think negatively about 
the British as a people. However, 
about their leaving India as quickly 
as possible, he was adamant, said 
Singh.
Before working towards Indias 
freedom, however, Gandhi cam
paigned in South Africa for several 
years, protesting racism in the South 
African government.
What Gandhi did for South Africa 
was not as important as what it did 
for him. It changed him, his life, his 
philosophy, said Singh.
Upon his return to India, Gandhi 
began protesting once more. His phi
losophy was one of nonviolent 
protest, which has been used as a 
model by many other leaders, most 
notably Martin Luther King Jr. The 
British government sent Gandhi to 
jail on charges of sedition for six 
years (he was released after two)
and later imprisoned him once more 
in an attempt to silence him. Gandhi 
continued to organize protests from 
within jail, and eventually he was 
released again. In 1945, after the 
British governments leadership 
changed parties, Britain finally 
began negotiations for Indias com
plete independence.
In January 1948, after fasting con
tinuously to protest the fighting that 
was occurring because of the divi
sion of India into India and Pakistan, 
Gandhi was assassinated by a Hindi 
fanatic who was against Gandhis 
tolerance of Muslims.
See GANDHI, page A4


---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 6, 2002T) Oage ^
Chockfu lkraeu LmhebdchuppvibsckfTHURSDAYHi 70 Lo 52
Weather
TUESDAY WEDNESDAYHi 63 Hi 78Lo 48 Lo 40
FRIDAYHi 66 Lo 51
SATURDAYHi 66 Lo 52
C
Medical, 9/26/03, 3:51 pm  
Campus Police were advised that a 
female was screaming in Donner 
Hall. A woman had fallen from her 
bunk, and suffered severe pain to 
her left hip, lower left leg, and right 
ankle. She was placed on a back
board and transported to Childrens 
Hospital. The victim stated that she 
had requested a bed rail from CMU 
Housing. To this day no bed rail has 
been installed and the victim said 
Housing had told her the request 
had been lost.
Hard Time, 9/27/03, 2:21 am 
 CAs in West Wing reported that 
two males were giving them a hard 
time when they caught them smok
ing in the stairwell with the exit 
doors propped open. They caught 
them twice in one night. After the 
second incident, the reprimanding 
CAs both stated that the actors said 
something in a foreign langauge 
and then called one of the two a 
bitch. The actors were informed 
that they were doing illegal things,
and they apologized. They were not 
cited at the request of the CAs.
Assist Outside Agency, 
9/27/03, 4:43 am  A city unit 
radioed for assistance. The city offi
cer requested that the CMU cop 
watch three male actors in a car so 
he could check with the victim. The 
city officer went to interview the 
victim, who declined to press 
charges against the actors who 
allegedly discharged a fire extin
guisher in his face. One of the 
actors, non-CMU student Cory 
Dixon, was issued a state citation.
Alcohol Offense, 9/28/03, 
2:29 am  Delta Tau Delta called 
Campus Police to report that a 
drunk student was on their porch. 
All units responded. Non-CMU stu
dent Derek Suparmanto, 19, was 
drunk while visiting his sister at 
CMU. He was issued a state citation 
for underage drinking. As the cita
tion was being written, 
Suparmanto snatched a packet of 
cleaning wipes from under where 
an officer was writing the citation. 
Another officer, who thought the 
kid was grabbing the citation, 
began to cuff him, but relented. 
The actor was released to his sis
ters custody, and the police called 
his father, at 3:30 am.
Alcohol Offense, 9/28/2003, 
2:42 am  On a routine patrol of 
the fraternity quad, officers heard 
yelling around the Sigma Nu frater
nity. Five or six individuals were 
standing around CMU student 
Sean OLaughlin, who was lying on 
his back with a large rope tied 
around his ankles. He was being 
poled for his birthday, a Sigma 
Nu tradition that involves hoisting 
an individual partially up a tree by 
their ankles while leaving them 
lying on their back, tributing them 
with a brief chant, and dumping 
water on them. After EMS evaluat
ed OLaughlin, he was allowed to 
stay at Sigma Nu, and was issued a 
state citation because he was 
drunk, as shown by his glassy eyes 
and the smell of alcohol on his 
breath.
Unknown Trouble, 9/28/2003, 
2:15 pm  A graduate student 
reported that a non-Universityrelated male was naked in the 
mens room in Posner Hall. The 
man, 75, was in a stall when 
Campus Police responded. He said 
he was on the way to Hunt Library, 
had a bowel movement, and coud 
not make it to the library. The offi
cers found nothing amiss, and left 
him in the restroom so he could 
clean himself off after he was iden
tified.
Dumpster Fire, 9/28/03,10:35 
pm  University Police received a 
call that a construction dumpster 
near the hill dorm driveway had 
caught fire. Three fire extinguish
ers were used before the blaze 
could be quelled. A fire engine was 
also called to hose the dumpster. 
The student responsible for the fire 
was on the scene. He said that 
Hamerschlag residents had been on 
cooking outside, and had dumped 
their charcoal into the dumpster on 
the instructions of their 
Housefellow, who said to wait for 
a while, and then dump the bri
quettes in the dumpster. The 
Housefellow said that he had told 
the starter of the fire to put the stillwarm coals in the dumpster. The 
police informed the Housefellow 
that the dumpster contains mostly 
wood and was approximately half 
full. The officer advised [the 
Housefellow] against dumping hot 
briquettes into a dumpster full of 
wood.
Disorderly Conduct, 9/28/03, 
10:45 pm  An Alpha Epsilon Pi 
brother reported that four males 
had just thrown a can of beer at the 
people on his fraternity porch. The 
police apprehended the suspects, 
all of whom denied throwing the 
beer can. The reporter of the event
said he would not come to identify 
the actor, and could not anyways. 
The four actors, all CMU students, 
were allowed to go free.
Theft, 10/01/03, 12:23 pm  
An employee at the library reported 
that a bust of Andrew Carnegie had 
been stolen from the fourth floor. 
The bust is approximately 28 inches 
by 23 inches, made of bronze, and 
valued at $2000 in 1995. A maga
zine entitled Clavier was put in the 
statues place. Two other replicas of 
this bust exists at the University. 
The weight of the bust is unknown, 
but the officer responding was told 
that it would probably take two 
people to carry it. No one reported 
seeing anyone carrying the bust in 
or out of the library.
Incident tallies 9/26 to 10/3
Dumpster Fire: 1 
Alcohol Offenses: 2 
Thefts: 5
Assist Outside Agency: 2
Page 2 Compiled by 
Daniel Goldman, 
Andrew Johnson
Lambda provides 
high-speed access
(U-WIRE) AUSTIN, Texas  
Before there were pop-up ads and 
mp3 trading, when e-mail and 
instant messaging were just glim
mers in a software engineers eye, a 
small research network funded by 
the Department of Defense and the 
National Science Foundation 
exploded.
Frankly, researchers have decid
ed, its become a little crowded.
Nearly 40 years after the first net
works were pioneered, a consor
tium of universities and research 
partners are buying up 10,000 miles 
of cable, buried and dormant in the 
aftermath of the dot-com bust, and 
preparing to initiate what some 
describe as the third generation of 
the Internet.
The Internets latest incarnation, 
called National Lambda Rail, is a 
proposed high-speed network ring
ing the United States  an exclu
sive interstate for digital research 
traffic with on-ramps at universities 
across the northern and western
United States.
The goal is to have a resource 
owned entirely by participating 
research institutions, from the fiber 
to the equipment to which it con
nects, said Tom West, president and 
CEO of the Corporation for 
Education Network Initiatives in 
California.
It would be like your own private 
lane on an interstate, West said. 
Theres a barrier between the lanes 
... because theyre doing a certain 
kind of research that they dont 
want to be sharing with a freshman 
college student or a fourth-grader.
That barrier separates the 
National Lambda Rail from the clut
ter and slower speed of the existing 
Internet. Researchers who need to 
download enormous databases or 
transfer other large files would be 
able to access information in min
utes that would normally take 
months to download, said Peter 
Freeman, assistant director for the 
National Science Foundations 
Computer and Information Science 
and Engineering Directorate.
The National Lambda Rail will 
also allow scientists who study net
works a better environment for 
experiments, West said.
Funding for the connection is pro
vided by the schools interested in 
connecting. West expected between
$80 million and $100 million will be 
spent on the network over the next 
five years.
The construction of the Lambda 
Rail moved clockwise across the 
country, as schools in California, 
Washington and Illinois were pre
pared to fund the project first. A line 
through the South  running from 
Pittsburgh to Atlanta and then 
through Dallas  is an important 
step to opening up information at 
southern universities.
Networks are constructed in cir
cles to ensure that if a break in the 
line occurs, machines do not lose 
their connections.
To quickly shuffle information 
across state lines, members of the 
National Lambda Rail project 
formed consortium to buy up unused 
dark fiber  cable laid in the 
ground but not connected to any
thing  buried by telecommunica
tions companies at the height of the 
Internet boom.
The companies overestimated the 
demand for the high-speed fiber 
optic cable, and the huge supply has 
created a great advantage for the 
schools.
It used to be that this dark fiber 
was so expensive that only big tele
phone companies saw any reason to 
invest in it, Dan Updegrove, UT vice 
president of information and tech
nology said. But now, because this 
dark fiber is overbuilt, the prices 
have come down.
The demand to participate in cut
ting-edge research weighs heavy in 
the minds of many schools, 
Updegrove said. He said he was con
fident schools would join the net
work soon.
It frankly was off-putting to see a 
map that said that the next genera
tion of science was being developed 
in Southern California and Illinois, 
he said. Whatever the state-of-theart is going to be, you dont want to 
be far behind that.
Harvard institutes 
smoking ban
(U-WIRE) CAMBRIDGE, Mass.  
Cheering on their leaders and drink
ing with friends, local anti-smoking 
advocates took to bars Wednesday 
night to celebrate the first day of a 
new smoking ban in Cambridge, 
Mass.
This is a wonderful moment for 
us here in Cambridge, said 
Cambridge Chief Public Health 
Officer Harold Cox, who addressed a 
packed crowd at Toad nightclub. 
Weve been working on this in 
incremental steps since 1975.... I 
know how hard this was.
Although limited restrictions on 
smoking in city restaurants have 
existed in the home of Harvard 
University since 1984, the blanket 
ban on smoking in all Cambridge 
restaurants and bars was only 
passed in June after nearly a year of 
heated debate.
Somerville, Mass., also put a simi
lar smoking ban into effect 
Wednesday.
Cambridge and Somerville now 
join 90 other communities in 
Massachusetts that have banished 
smoking from their restaurants and 
bars.
Clean Air Works, an umbrella 
group of local health boards and 
organizations that campaigned for 
the two cities smoking bans, spon
sored the Toad event.
Im thrilled that the only smoking 
in Cambridge bars tonight is going 
to be on the TV as Pedro Martinez 
smokes it past home base, said 
Cambridge City Councilor Brian 
Murphy, referring to Wednesday 
nights Red Sox playoff game against 
the Oakland Athletics, which the 
team from Boston lost.
This is a victory for public health 
and workers rights in Cambridge, 
Murphy said. Well look back on 
this in a few years and say, Why did 
it take so long?
World Wire
Israel, Syria clash over 
recent Mideast bombs
MAJDAL SHAMS, Golan Heights (AP)  
Israel bombed a target inside Syria that it 
claimed was an Islamic Jihad training base, 
striking deep inside its neighbors territory 
Sunday for the first time in three decades and 
widening its pursuit of Palestinian militants.
The airstrike  a retaliation for a suicide 
bombing Saturday that killed 19 Israelis  
alarmed the Arab world and deepened con
cerns that three years of Israeli-Palestinian 
violence could spread through the region. 
Islamic Jihad claimed responsibility for 
Saturdays bombing, in which 55 people were 
wounded.
1 Washington urged both sides to show 
restraint  but added pointed criticism of 
Syria, saying Damascus must cease harboring 
terrorists and make a clean break from those 
responsible for planning and directing terror
ist action from Syrian soil.
With little option for military retaliation, 
Syria turned for international support. On 
requests from Damascus, the U.N. Security 
Council and the 22-member Arab League held 
emergency sessions Sunday as Syrias foreign 
minister Farouq al-Sharaa sought measures to 
ideter Israeli aggression.
! Syrias U.N. Ambassador Fayssal Mekdad 
called on the council to adopt a resolution 
condemning the attack.
 Israels Ambassador Dan Gillerman defend
ed the attack. He accused Syria of providing 
safe harbor, training facilities, funding, (and) 
logistical support to terrorist organizations.
Iraq weapons hunters 
might locate anthrax
WASHINGTON (AP)  Weapons hunters in 
Iraq are pursuing tips that point to the possi
ble presence of anthrax and Scud missiles still 
hidden in the country, the chief searcher said 
Sunday.
David Kay told Congress last week that his 
survey team had not found nuclear, biological, 
or chemical weapons so far. But he argued 
against drawing conclusions, saying he 
expects to provide a full picture on Iraqs 
weapons programs in six months to nine 
months.
While lacking physical evidence for the 
presence anthrax or Scuds, Kay said tips from 
Iraqis are motivating the search for them.
Critics, including many in Congress, say 
Kays findings do not support most of the Bush 
administrations prewar assertions that the 
United States faced an imminent, serious 
threat from Iraqs Saddam Hussein because of 
widespread and advanced Iraqi weapons pro
grams. President Bush has said the U.S.-led 
war on Iraq was justified despite the failure to 
find weapons.
Kay reported that searchers found a vial of 
live botulinum bacteria that had been stored 
since 1993 in an Iraqi scientists refrigerator. 
The bacteria make botulinum toxin, which can 
be used as a biological weapon, but Kay has 
offered no evidence that the bacteria had been 
used in a weapons program.
The live bacteria was among a collection of 
reference strains of biological organisms 
that could not be used to produce biological 
warfare agents. Kay said Sunday the same sci
entist told investigators that he was asked to 
hide another much larger cache of strains, but 
after a couple of days he turned them back 
because he said they were too dangerous. He 
has small children in the house.
Kay said the cache contains anthrax and 
thats one reason were actively interested in 
getting it. Kay, speaking on Fox News Sunday, 
did not say whether the anthrax was live or a 
strain used only for anthrax research.
Before the war, Iraqis said they had 
destroyed their supply of anthrax. Inspectors 
havent found any and Iraqis havent been able 
to provide evidence to satisfy investigators 
that they did destroy it. Experts note that old 
supplies of anthrax would have degraded by 
now.
While the Bush administration argued 
before taking the country to war that Iraqs 
arsenal posed an imminent threat, much of 
what Kay discovered is that Iraq had interest 
in such weapons and was researching some 
agents.
Minnesota college kids 
start homecoming riot
MANKATO, Minn. (AP)  Sixteen people 
were injured and 45 people were arrested 
after revelers got out of hand Saturday night 
during homecoming weekend at Minnesota 
State, Mankato.
As many as 3000 people were in a crowd 
that gathered Saturday night in a largely stu
dent residential area, some setting fire to trash 
bins, tearing down fences, smashing car win
dows, and throwing rocks and bricks at offi
cers, police said. As many as 300 people took 
part in the rioting, police said. Mankato lost 
20-9 to North Dakota State.
It was utter drunkenness, said Mary 
Iverson, a homeowner in the area where the 
disturbance took place.
Two officers retreated after reaching the 
scene and waited for backup.
When police backed off, the students were 
so excited because they thought they had 
defeated the cops, said Brian Boothe, a 
senior.
Police in riot gear then used eye and skin 
irritants to disperse the crowd. Four officers 
were injured by objects thrown at them, said 
Jim Franklin, the citys public safety director.
The area became so dangerous that it took 
an armored vehicle to pick up a student who 
reportedly wasnt breathing, Franklin said. 
Police also received reports of students being 
assaulted by fellow students. About a dozen 
people were treated for injuries at a nearby
hospital.
The universitys president, Richard 
Davenport, said students identified in video
tapes that were taken at the scene would face 
disciplinary action.
Tiger, alligator safely 
removed from room
NEW YORK (AP)  A tiger and an alligator 
found in a Manhattan apartment were sent to 
wildlife sanctuaries in Ohio and Indiana on 
Sunday while their owner recovered from bite 
wounds inflicted by the more than 400-pound 
cat.
Police said Antoine Yates, 31, would face 
reckless endangerment charges after he gets 
out of a hospital in Philadelphia, where he 
fled. He was listed in good condition.
Yates said the tiger grabbed him and tore 
open my whole leg down to the bone. Yates 
told Philadelphia TV station KYW in a phone 
interview from his hospital bed that he was 
trying to create a Garden of Eden, something 
that this world lacks.
A team of animal control officers, police 
and Bronx Zoo workers removed the animals 
from Yates fifth-floor apartment in a Harlem 
housing project on Saturday.
Wes Artope, director of the citys animal 
shelters, said the tiger, an orange and white 
Siberian-Bengal mix, had been kept in the 
apartment since he was a 6-week-old cub. The 
20-month-old tiger now weighs at least 425 
pounds, Artope said.
The tiger and the 5-foot-long alligator, both 
in good condition, were eventually taken to 
Ohio, Artope said.
Corrections clarifications
September 29: News  Quotes in the article entitled UC basement to gain final fur
nishings on A1 attributed to Peter Bronder should have been attributed to Bruce Taylor. 
September 29: News  In Crime and Incident reports on A2, the painting of the Fence 
was attributed to Palestinian Students. The nationalities of the involved parties are 
unclear, but not all were Palestinian.
September 29: News  On page A4, in the article entitled QMQ throws party on CFA 
lawn, the pull quote was misattributed to Dan Papasian. It was said by Raz Tirosh.
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. To report a correction or clarification, contact the 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Johnson at (412) 268-2111.
PghWire
Natural gas will 
get more expensive
PITTSBURGH (AP)  Hundreds of 
thousands of Pennsylvania residents 
who use natural gas to heat their 
homes will pay more this winter com
pared to last.
One exception to the general rate 
increase is Equitable Gas Co., which 
says its customers should see slightly 
lower fees this year.
The utilities blame the increase on 
last years extended winter and high 
demand.
In 2002, the average cost to draw 
natural gas from the ground was $4.14 
per thousand square feet, according to 
the U.S. Energy Department. Through 
August, the average price was $5.16 per 
thousand square feet.
Because the price is a direct pass
through, the simple answer is the gas 
we were purchasing cost more this year 
than last year, Columbia Gas 
spokesman Rob Boulware said Friday.
Demand is exceeding supply, 
Dominion spokesman Elmore Lockley 
said.
In terms of our company and 
nationwide, while there has been more 
(natural gas) drilling activity, the 
demand for gas still was there and it 
was a catch-up situation for drillers, 
Lockley said.
Average monthly gas bills for 
Dominion Peoples, which has 350,000 
customers in Pennsylvania, during 
October, November and December will 
be 28 percent higher than the same 
three months in 2002.
That means the typical residential 
customer who paid $75.69 last year 
will be paying $96.88.
For Columbia Gas customers, aver
age monthly bills will increase 4.5 per
cent, meaning the bill will rise from 
$97.89 to $102.31. Columbia Gas has 
about 410,000 customers in the state.
And the 60,000 T.W. Phillips cus
tomers will see a 13.9 percent increase, 
raising average bills from $92.20 to 
$105.03 a month.
Average fees at Equitable Gas, which 
has about 260,000 customers, should 
match last years, at $123.68.
Ultimately, heating bills will depend 
on the severity of winter, which is 
expected to be slightly colder with 
near-to-above-normal snowfall, 
according to forecasting group Global 
Weather Services.
Lawsuit to defend 
parents rights
PITTSBURGH (AP)  A mother who 
lost, then regained custody of her infant 
daughter partly because of erroneous 
concerns that her now 2-year-old son 
was malnourished sued a county 
agency, saying it has systematic prob
lems that wrongly thwart parents 
rights.
Todays lawsuit is merely the open
ing salvo in what will be a larger effort 
by the ACLU to reform unconstitutional 
practices in Beaver Countys child wel
fare system, said Vic Walczak, legal 
director for the Pittsburgh ACLU office. 
The ACLU filed the federal lawsuit 
Thursday against Beaver County 
Children and Youth Services 
(BCCYS) on behalf of Selena 
Underwood, 20, of Beaver Falls, and 
her children, William and NaDayja.
Underwood is still fighting for cus
tody of William, whom she lost to foster 
care in October 2001 after months of 
wrangling with the agency, which at 
first accused her of failing to properly 
feed him.
Even after doctors found the boy had 
a bowel obstruction that was surgically 
corrected, the agency accused 
Underwood of having a poor attitude 
and finally gained custody of the boy, 
then 8-months-old, by alleging that he 
was living in substandard housing, the 
lawsuit states.
Underwood lost custody of NaDayja 
in February, just days after she was 
born, because the agency determined 
Underwood was unfit, in part, because 
William was still in foster care. In this 
case, BCCYS had no factual or legal 
basis to take either child, said James 
Mahood, a Pittsburgh attorney helping 
the ACLU with the case.
In May, Underwoods then-5-monthold was returned to her after the ACLU 
intervened.
A judge has since let Underwood 
have supervised visits with her son in 
hopes they may also be reunited, but 
that has proceeded slower than expect
ed, Mahood said.
Not having your kids is very, very 
hard. Especially the way they did it with 
my daughter  she was only two days 
old, Underwood said. Today what I 
hope to get accomplished is to get 
(BCCYS) out of my life and have this 
over with.
Mahood said Underwood remains on 
welfare because she cant find a job 
with a schedule flexible enough to 
work around the visitation schedule 
with her son, which is frequently 
changed by the agency.
The lawsuit targets two BCCYS exec
utives, three caseworkers and two 
attorneys who were court-appointed to 
represent Underwood in the disputes.
ff

---------------------------------------------------

A SUTTF FOR T FSS THANn juii ArA x vyiv  ii Hill j.xim\
A HOTEL ROOM
Elegantly furnished one- or two-bedroom apartment suites include an equipped kitchen,: 
fluffy linens, TV, VCR, cable movies, free local phone service, and reserved parking.
Conveniently located at 5405 Fifth Avenue, Shadyside. Two Blocks from Walnut Street's , 
145 fashionable shops and 12 delicious restaurants. One mile to CMU/Pitt/Hospitals.
DAILY, WEEKLY, MONTHLY RATES
FREE HIGH-SPEED INTERNET ACCESS1
5405 Fifth Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15232(41 9"| 441 _4444J || JL r I I Ihttp ://www. shadysideinn. com
^Internet Access avilable in most two-bedroom and mansion suites

---------------------------------------------------

Depression
University of Pittsburgh 
Medical Center
New York University | Study Abroad Programs
New York University Study Abroad Admissions 
Tel: 212.998.4433  E mail: 5tudyabroad@nyu.eduNYU I StudyAbroa*
THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 6, 2003
Singh tells 
of Gandhis 
life journey
GANDHI, from page A1
Moffett Field campus 
adds on more facilities
Somethings always
Dependability Computing program 
for a period of 18 months. It has cur
rently moved out of it. The HighDependability Computing Program 
is the result of a $23.3 million award 
from NASA to the School of 
Computer Science that was 
announced in January. That pro
gram and the other research and 
educational work of the campus will 
now be done in the two new build
ings. The campus now includes the 
two newly renovated buildings, 23 
and 24, and eventually may also 
include buildings 17 and 20, 
depending on whether the 
University decides to exercise its 
options on buildings 17 and 20.
The next logical thing is to reno
vate [building 17] and move back 
into it, said Morris.
We will continue to add new pro
grams or research [work] as the 
need arises and we have the staff to 
do it, said Adams.
The overall plan for the campus 
suggests that additional space will 
be needed, according to Raj Reddy, 
director of the West Coast Campus. 
Reddy also emphasized that differ
ence between the campus size of 
Carnegie Mellons West Coast 
Campus compared to the main one. 
The West Coast campus has around
20,000 square feet, while the 
Computer Science department here 
has about 200,000 square feet. Even 
adding new space as a result of the 
renovation of these buildings the 
West Coast campus is still quite 
small, said Reddy.
Adams reiterated reasons behind 
the Universitys expansion to the 
West Coast.
By having a presence on the West 
Coast we are able to better connect 
to companies and to alumni for 
funding purposes, said Adams.
Being connected with what is 
going on out there is important for 
us because otherwise its possible 
for our research and teaching to get 
out of touch with the industrial real
ity, said Morris. It is also important 
to have a program in such an envi
ronment to keep our programs vital, 
and to be near the University of 
California and Stanford University, 
he said.
Morris also said that he is happy 
with the way things are going, but 
they are a little slower than hed 
like, partly as a result of the current 
economy.
by Matt Rado
StaffwriterP FREE % 
ADMISSION 
FOR CMU 
STUDENTS <
* with student ID ?
Carnegie Mellon University is 
opening two newly-renovated build
ings at the West Coast campus with 
a formal ribbon-cutting ceremony 
on October 31. The opening involves
19,000 square feet of space in 
Buildings 23 and 24 at Shenandoah 
Plaza, Moffett Field, CA and is the 
culmination of a lease agreement 
between Carnegie Mellon University 
and NASA that was announced in 
January. The duration of the lease 
agreement gives Carnegie Mellon a 
presence in the two buildings that 
could last as long as 48 years. The 
renovations are part of a plan to 
gain a long-term presence on the 
West Coast, according to Duane 
Adams, vice provost for research.
James Morris, dean of the School 
of Computer Science, said that the 
renovations and expansion plans 
had been years in the making and 
that the campus needed more space. 
The renovation process required 
special attention because the build
ings involved are on the State of 
Californias historic register. 
Historic buildings cannot be torn 
down, so that possibility was ruled 
out immediately. The renovations 
essentially involved modernizing 
the buildings, according to Adams. 
They are modern buildings on the 
inside, but still maintain the appear
ance of a 1930s building on the out
side. Renovations included adding 
air conditioning, an elevator, and 
handicap accessibility. Both build
ings have most of the staff they will 
need, but janitorial and mainte
nance staff will have to be hired.
The lease agreement gave 
Carnegie Mellon a 15-year lease and 
options to bring the leases term up 
to 48 years. The lease also gave 
Carnegie Mellon the right of first 
refusal on buildings 17 and 20, 
which are located in the quadrangle 
of nearby buildings. The right of 
first refusal gives the University the 
option of leasing the other two 
buildings. According to Adams, 
depending on educational opportu
nities and the need for additional 
research space, the University will 
decide whether to exercise this 
option. Before, the University used 
one floor of Building 17 for the West 
Coast campus and High
Muslims were still a minority. He 
was very much protective of those 
groups, said Singh. It was extreme
ly important for him to bring [minor
ity groups] in, even if it meant major 
upheavals in society.
Another minority group for whom 
Gandhi successfully campaigned 
were the Dalits, the lowest members 
of Indias caste system.
The untouchables were supposed 
to, be kept physically separate from 
the upper class. They were living in 
segregated neighborhoods, could not 
go to temple, they were not allowed 
to own property. And Gandhi was 
able to change all of this. He led the 
movement. He called them Harujin, 
Children of God, because he 
believed they are, as are we, all chil
dren of God, said Singh.
I think that people have a general 
notion of Gandhis movement and 
how it affected the world. I came to 
this lecture to understand the perti
nence of Gandhis message today, 
said Alisha Bhagat, a junior in materi
als science and engineering, biomed
ical engineering, and a self-defined 
major in H&SS. After the lecture, 
Bhagat and other students asked 
Singh if he believed Gandhis philoso
phy still applies to modern issues.
Gandhis message of nonviolence 
is very important... if you take away 
that message, what do you have left? 
said Singh. Can we really resolve all 
our goals through military might? 
There are other ways of dealing with 
problems, and nonviolence is one of 
them.
Many of the students felt the best 
part of the lecture was the detailed 
history of how Gandhis philosophy 
evolved.
It was really nice  it was espe
cially good for people who arent 
from India to get the background on 
Gandhi, said Padma Natarajan, a 
masters student in public manage
ment.
Emily Half and Elisa Echeverria 
from Student Affairs organized the 
lecture. The University Lecture Series 
is run by Student Affairs and holds 
lectures sponsored by different 
groups on the first Monday of each 
month in Baker Hall 136A.
A relaxing retreat 
from your 
studies.
THE PERFECT DATE PLACE IS OPEN FRIDAYS UNTIL 9!
Phipps Conservatory and Botanical Gardens has been delighting visitors 
for nearly 110 years. Renoumed for its lush floiver shows, distinctive 
architecture, and ever-changing exhibitions under 
45,000 square feet of glass.
One Schenley Park, Pittsburgh, PA 15213 412-622-6914  www.phipps.conservatory.org wSr^SSSk Open Tues.-Sun. 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Open Friday 'til 9 p.m.
We are seeking participants for new 
research programs for depression in 
people ages 18 and older.
Depression is a common illness that can be 
debilitating if left untreated. If youve had any 
of the symptoms below for two weeks or longer, 
you may be depressed.
I feel awful.
I don't know what is wrong with me.
I don't sleep well.
I don't have any energy.
i feel guilty.
I feel like a failure,
I would like to go to sleep and not wake up.
You may be eligible for our research programs if 
you checked yes to any of these symptoms. The 
programs wall help to evaluate widely prescribed 
^ medications, a new type of therapy for 
depression, or medications not yet on the 
IL market. Participants in these programs
II will receive office visits, study medication, and evaluations at no cost
ties.
Most of the complaints against the 
plan center on the removal of parking 
spaces from Oakland and planned 
changes in traffic flow around the 
plaza. Golomb dismissed those con
cerns, saying that metered parking 
will be added around the plaza and 
other parking areas in Oakland have 
dozens to hundreds of empty spaces 
every day.
The main roadblock for the park 
now is a lack of monies to pay the 
projects expected $5 million price 
tag.
Were looking for state funding, 
said Tellers. The project is on the 
state legislatures docket, but no deci
sion has yet been reached.
The city of Pittsburgh will not pay 
for the plaza improvements, though 
the plaza is a high priority for Mayor 
Tom Murphy, according to Tellers.
The city is not putting money into 
this project, Golomb said.
We have a plan, if we can get 
through this difficult funding situa
tion, said Tellers. McIntoshs plans 
included backup ideas that could be 
built on a smaller budget with space 
left open for future additions when 
more funding could be secured.
Organizers hope to begin actual 
construction in the spring of 2004 
and complete work by the summer of 
2005, but stressed that those dates 
were extremely rough estimates.
entrance to Schenley Park, but also a 
central gathering place for Oakland, 
said Susan Golomb, Pittsburghs 
director of city planning, at a public 
meeting about the future of the 
plaza.
We wanted to have a space that 
was active, said Golomb, who point
ed out that people could not walk on 
the lawns at the Soldiers and Sailors 
monument and that there was not 
much to do at Flagstaff Hill.
Project officials hired 
Massachusetts-based Sasaki
Associates, Inc. to do the architectur
al and engineering work on the plaza 
project. Sasaki recently won the 
international design competition for 
the 2008 Olympic Green, the main 
site of the Beijing Olympic Games, 
and won a prize for the Wukesong 
Cultural and Sports Center, where 
Olympic basketball, baseball, and 
softball will be played.
Alistair McIntosh, a principal with 
Sasaki, said that the area surround
ing the plaza would be incorporated 
into the design. Paths throughout the 
park will seem to radiate from the 
Schenley Fountain, with one point
ing down Bigelow Street, one point
ing directly to the Cathedral of 
Learning and the Stephen Foster 
Memorial, and another going into 
Schenley Park. McIntosh said that
We have offices in Oakland, 
k Monroeville, and the South Hills.
For more details, call 
the UPMC Mood 
Disorders Treatment 
and Research Program 
at 412-624-0999.
All calls are confidential,
Where will you study?
Florence  London  Madrid  Paris  Prague
Petition for campus to 
join the USSA defeated
USSA, from page A1
New VP of 
finance 
appointed
ELECTION, from page A1
We're visiting 
your campus!
Fall/Spring/Academic Year
 Choose from courses in
English and the native language 
of the host country.Saturday, October 1111 a.m.-3 p.m.in the USSA ran counter to the spirit 
of Senate bylaws.
Political groups arent eligible to 
receive funding from the student 
activities fee. The reason for that, as 
best we can tell, is that you should
nt be taking everyones money and 
giving it to a political group whos 
got one idea or one goal, politically. 
You shouldnt be subsidizing them 
with everyones money when not 
everyone agrees with them ... While 
this wouldnt be part of the activities 
fee, I saw it as the same basic idea, 
said Kling.
He also said, We get the benefits 
[of higher financial aid] whether or 
not we join the group.
Readers interested in expressing 
their opinion on this issue
can e-mail the Senate at
ss2p@andrew.cmu.edu. Information 
on the USSA can be found at 
www.usstudents.org.
Senate floor over the requested 
demographics of representatives 
attending USSAs national conven
tions. CMU would be asked by the 
USSA to send, from a group of six, 
two females (one a woman of 
color), a person of color, and either 
a queer or non-traditional queer, 
graduate student, a student with 
disabilities, or an international stu
dent. Flocken and Michaels-Ober 
stressed that these were requests 
and not quotas. According to a 
brochure for the 2003 USSA nation
al congress, in order to vote, dele
gation composition must show a 
good-faith effort to meet USSA 
Diversity Guidelines. In addition, 
delegations of three or more are 
required to have at least one woman 
and one person of color.
Kling also said that membership
Earn NYU credit while studying 
with prominent leaders, scholars, and 
artists of the host country.
Carnegie Mellon University Wean Commons,University Centerthe financial issues regarding the 
possible amending of the Student 
Body Constitution in the near future.
My goal is to get caught up from 
things that may or may not have hap
pened in the past month, said 
Richelmi. I know there are a few 
things that have come up and have 
been delayed with the vacant posi
tion. My first task will be to take care 
of those issues. As with any vice pres
ident of finance, I think my most 
important job is to make sure that stu
dent money is being spent and allo
cated responsibly. That may take the 
form of thorough management to 
inducing reform. I plan to maximize 
my efforts to assure that those objec
tives are met.
 Live in residence halls,
apartments, and family homes 
Housing is guaranteed.
 Scholarships may be available
Study Abroad with NYU 
www.riyu.edu/abroad/sites

---------------------------------------------------

1 .? :< y-} 1Li*... .1
k : V * ' u. Ir-'.Vv<> t, <* i. f s: 4, r A* W
-, > *
: Wi1 17
 1
1  1
Volkswagen presents
1 '^TT
lilS ^t * 1.
 V
  v!iIM
. I l1; W ***, * 
1 ,
with special guest
W \/ /D /> y/
?
ss
i
QQdlOVLUXOm I Drivers wanted? f
and better than ever
October 20 I On Sale Now
Carnegie Mellon University
Weigand Gym
www.vwmusicedtour.com-b
Sponsored in part byyour 
Student Activities Fee
Student Tickets ~ $5 at the University Center
Public Tickets - $10 - via ticketmaster
Daytime Village - Merson Courtyard and East/West Walkway
Village Rain Site - University Center Loggia
ALBUM IN STORES NOW FEATURING 
"THE BOYS OF SUMMER" & THE SADDEST SONG"

---------------------------------------------------

6 October 2003THE TARTANPage Ao
Heinz professors will study 
violence, psych disorders
NIMH awards researchers over $1 million for project
by John Davin
Contributing Editor
The nightly news sometimes tells 
tragic stories: grade school students 
lose control and open fire on fellow 
students. A man shoots a store clerk 
over a minor altercation.
These seemingly irrational acts of 
violence are perplexing. Experts 
speculate as to what might have 
caused them, but there has been little 
evidence to support those experts 
theories.
Now, two researchers in the Heinz 
School of Public Policy and 
Management think that statistical 
methods can offer some insight into 
patterns of violence and psychiatric 
disorders.
Daniel Nagin, a Teresa and H. John 
Heinz III Professor of Public -Policy, 
and Jeffrey Dominitz, an assistant 
professor of economics and public 
policy, have been granted a $1.1 mil
lion award from the National 
Institute of Mental Health to contin
ue their work in quantifying the 
developmental pattern of psychiatric 
disorders and chronic violence. The 
three-year grant will support their 
work in identifying relationships 
between abnormal behavior and 
events in the subjects past that may 
have been related to the behavior.
Nagin and Dominitz are looking at 
behaviors such as chronic depression, 
schizophrenia, conduct disorder, and 
violent actions that resulted in crimi
nal convictions.
These kinds of behavior tend very 
rarely to be iso
lated events in 
[peoples] lives, 
said Nagin, who 
has been study
ing statistical 
trajectories of 
behaviors for 
the past ten
years. [Violent] 
behaviors can 
often be traced
back to very
early in life.
Trajectory models generally plot 
the number of incidents over time
across different subject groups. For
instance, they allow one to see the 
differences between chronically vio
lent people and people who were 
only violent as adolescents.
According to Nagin, common fac
tors linked to violent behavior are low 
IQ, parents with a criminal record or 
poor child-rearing practices, and risktaking behaviors.
However, marriage helps to 
decrease mens violent behavior, said 
Nagin. The woman almost becomes 
a full-time parole supervisor, he 
said.
The propensity to be physically
Pillbio x,6SpSrt
xspSiA csTSp
aggressive is built into our species. 
Its something that most of us are 
born with, said Nagin. He believes 
that everyone is born with violent 
tendencies, but that they are usually 
suppressed as a child develops the 
control necessary to conform to soci
ety.
If you focus on the act, and not the 
consequences, then the most physi
cally aggressive people on earth are 
two-year-olds, said Nagin. 
According to Nagin, the people who 
do not learn to control early aggres
sive impulses as children are much 
more likely to become adults who 
commit violent acts.
In 2001, Nagin and Richard 
Tremblay, a professor of pediatrics, 
psychiatry, and psychology at the 
University of Montral, reported on 
their study of 
physical aggres
sion in boys in 
Canada. Nagin 
and Tremblay 
compared boys 
who were con
tinually aggres
sive from ages 
six to fifteen 
with boys who 
were aggressive 
at age six, but
later stopped.
They found that the only two dif
ferences between the groups were 
that the perpetually aggressive boys 
were more likely to have mothers 
who began childbearing as teenagers 
and to have mothers who were poor: 
ly educated. Their findings motivated 
Quebec to establish a $70 million 
program targeted at helping high-risk 
mothers improve their parenting.
In their current work, Nagin and 
Dominitz are also trying to address 
the problem of separating cause from 
effect in the non-experimental data 
they use. Since violent and psychi
atric behaviors cannot be manipulat
ed in an experimental manner, it is 
difficult to determine whether events 
in a persons past, caused violent 
behavior, or whether it is only a cor
relation.
The data used for their statistical 
models comes from a number of dif
ferent countries, and according to 
Nagin, the datasets range in sample 
size from 400 to 3000, with most sets 
containing measurements from 
about 1000 people.
While Nagin and Dominitz are pri
marily developing models for psychi
atric disorders and violent behavior, 
their work could also be used in other 
areas.
The statistical methodologies Im 
developing can be applied to many 
other domains, said Nagin. For 
example, his trajectory models can 
also be used to predict obesity and 
testosterone levels.
Upcoming Events
Architects Koetter, Mobot Races open 
Kim will lecture house to be held
On Monday, award-winning archi
tects Fred Koetter and Susie Kim will 
discuss urban planning and building 
as part of the Universitys David 
Lewis Lecture Series.
The lecture will take place at 6:30 
pm in Kresge Recital Hall.
Prof Fahlman will 
discuss house elf
This Wednesday, Scott E. Fahlman, 
professor of computer science, will 
give an Human-Computer Interaction 
Institute seminar called Making 
Pervasive Computing Friendly and 
Intuitive.
In this talk, Fahlman will describe a 
central control computer  he calls it 
the house elf  that is smart 
enough to provide one easy-to-manage user interface.
That computer can then communi
cate our wishes to all the stupid, 
unfriendly legacy devices we have to 
deal with every day, such as VCRs 
and cell phones. He will attempt to 
answer the question Just how 
friendly and intuitive can we make 
this one critical interface?
Fahlman, a research professor in 
Carnegie Mellons School of 
Computer Science, is co-principal 
investigator of the RADAR Project, a 
five-year effort to build an Al-intensive cognitive personal assistant for 
busy managers.
The seminar will take place in NSH 
1305 from 4-5 pm.
Cant wait for Carnival in anticipa
tion of the 10th annual Mobot Slalom 
Races? This Wednesday, an open 
house on the Mobot race for all inter
ested faculty, staff, students, and 
alumni will be held. The race will be 
open to students from all depart
ments. Individuals and teams are 
welcome (cross-disciplinary teams 
included). The open house will take 
place at 6 pm in Wean Hall 5409. 
Pizza will be served. For additional 
information, visit the website 
www. cs. emu. edu/mobot.
How green is our 
campus, others?
This Thursday, the Society for 
College and University Planning has 
organized a live satellite telecast on 
sustainability, to be followed by a dis
cussion. Topics will include what sus
tainability is and its importance for a 
secure and civil society; the critical 
role of higher education in creating a 
sustainable world; and strategies for 
making sustainability a foundation of 
higher education learning and prac
tice. The telecast will take place from 
noon to 2 pm in the Connan Room, 
UC. The discussion will be from 2 to 3 
pm. Bring your own lunch. For fur
ther information, visit www.scup.org 
or www.cmu.edu/greenpractices.
Compiled by 
Karen Hoffmann
Courtesy of the Hunt Botanical Institute
Plants that heal
Trillium erectum L., also known as purple trillium, stinking benjamin, squawroot, and brown beth, is depicted in this 
watercolor on paper. Various peoples have used the plant to soothe insect bites and skin irritations, treat fungal infec
tion, and control bleeding. The artwork comes from the Hunt Botanical Institutes exhibit The Healing Plants of Ida 
Hrubesky Pemberton, on display through February 29, 2004, on the fourth floor of Hunt Library.
How Things Work: Microwave ovens
ecn trrwcaa
It all started in 1946 when an 
engineer named Percy Spencer was 
testing a new vacuum tube for 
radar applications. He noticed that 
the candy bar in his pocket melted, 
and his curiosity inspired him to 
place other food items near the 
new tube. After popping some 
popcorn and exploding an egg all 
over a colleague, he built an exper
imental oven around the device, 
and patented the idea.
In 1947 Raytheon, the company 
Percy worked for, introduced the 
first commercial microwave oven. 
It was large, heavy, expensive, and 
had to be plumbed into a water 
supply to stay cool. By the mid1950s, improved microwave oven 
designs found their way into 
homes.
As the name suggests, 
microwave ovens cook food with 
microwave radiation. Microwaves 
are a form of electromagnetic 
wave, located on the spectrum 
between radio waves and infrared 
light.
Cooking applications use a wave 
frequency around 2.5 GHz. Some 
cordless phones also operate in 
that frequency, but theyre 
nowhere near powerful enough to 
cook your ear.
What makes these waves special 
is that tjiey are absorbed by water, 
fats, and sugars, and converted
directly into heat. Whereas con
ventional means of cooking food 
rely on generating heat and wait
ing for the food to absorb it, 
microwave cooking heats the food 
directly and uniformly. Sometimes 
it is not as uniform as we would 
like, though; this problem arises as 
a result of having either thick, 
dense food that the waves could 
not penetrate completely or wave 
interference.
The heart of the microwave oven 
is the vacuum tube with which 
Percy Spencer was working in 
1946. Using 4000 volts of direct 
current, supplied by a transformer, 
the tube excites electrons into a 
special dance that generates elec
tromagnetic waves at the right fre
quency to cook food. A short anten
na transmits that energy from 
inside the magnetron to the cook
ing chamber.
These 2.5 GHz microwaves, 
besides heating water, fats, and 
sugars, are also special in that they 
cannot pass through metal, even 
metal with very small holes in it.
That means that they can be con
tained in the cooking chamber of a 
microwave oven, where they 
bounce back and forth and pass 
through the food several times, 
making microwave ovens very 
effective. Keeping the microwaves 
inside the oven also prevents you 
from being cooked while you 
watch your food. The size and 
shape of the cooking chamber are 
actually designed based on the
exact frequency of the microwaves 
emitted by the magnetron so that a 
uniform wave pattern will exist in 
the cooking chamber. If you put 
other metal objects in a 
microwave, the wave pattern is dis
rupted.
Two pieces of metal (such as a 
fork and the side of your 
microwave) in an intense 
microwave energy field will gener
ate violent electric arcs between 
them.
Much like lightning jumping 
from a cloud to the earth, the air 
between the metal objects becomes 
ionized and conducts electricity, 
allowing the arc to form.
Misuse aside, microwaves still 
are not perfect, especially when 
people are accustomed to the char
acteristics of traditional cooking. 
For example, food cooked in a 
microwave oven lacks a crispy 
exterior, or any semblance of a 
crust.
This imperfection exists because 
the inside of the food is cooked just 
as thoroughly as the outside, and 
since microwaves do not heat air, 
the ambient temperature in the 
cooking chamber isnt any hotter 
than outside.
To compensate for this problem, 
some frozen foods come with 
crisping sleeves that are 
designed to trap heat around the 
food and mimic the effects of a hot 
oven, which provides that crispy
See MICROWAVES, page A7
SciTecKBriefs
New DVD-R, PSX 
to be seen at show
The Combined Exhibition of 
Advanced Technologies (CEATEC) 
Japan 2003 technology show, to be 
held from October 7 to 11 in 
Makuhari, near Tokyo, will showcase 
the latest in Japanese technology.
Philips Electronics will be demon
strating a new technology that effec
tively doubles the storage capacity of 
DVD-R discs.
Created with Japans Mitsubishi 
Kagaku Media, the new discs will 
raise the capacity of recordable DVDs 
from 4.7 gigabytes to 8.5 gigabytes 
for single-layer DVDs.
Sony will also be unveiling its allin-one PSX game device at the show. 
PSX will pack a TV tuner, DVD 
recorder, hard-disk drive, and the 
PlayStation 2 game console into a sin
gle white box.
Sony plans to launch the machine 
in Japan before the end of this year, 
and in Europe and the United States 
early next year.
Source: Reuters
Four plead guilty 
to online piracy
Four men have pled guilty for their 
roles in an online piracy ring that ille
gally distributed tens of thousands of 
copyrighted materials, including 
video games and movies, through the 
Internet.
The defendants  three from New 
York and one from the state of 
Washington  pled guilty this week 
in New Haven, CT, to federal counts 
of conspiracy to commit criminal 
copyright infringement.
They face up to five years in prison 
if convicted.
Federal prosecutors said on 
Thursday that the pleas are part of a 
national probe into pirated entertain
ment items and computer software.
Some of the file servers were locat
ed at the State University of New York 
at Albany
Source: Associated Press
Researchers close 
to a SARS vaccine
Canadian researchers are close to 
finding a vaccine to fight severe acute 
respiratory syndrome (SARS), the 
Canadian Institutes of Health 
Research said on Wednesday.
A team at McMaster University in 
Hamilton, Ontario, cloned the gene 
that codes for an important protein of 
the SARS virus.
They then inserted this gene into a 
virus that causes the common cold.
The SARS vaccine will soon go 
through several stages of testing: 
mice, then monkeys, and eventually 
humans.
Depending on the outcome of the 
animal tests, the vaccine could be 
ready to test in people within the 
year.
This is an important step that will 
allow us to immediately determine 
whether we can provide protection 
against this virus with proper immu
nization, said Jack Gauldie, chair
man of the department of pathology 
and molecular medicine at McMaster.
Source: Reuters
Microsoft to battle 
security lawsuit
Microsoft faces a lawsuit in 
California based on the claim that its 
software is vulnerable to viruses 
capable of triggering massive, cas
cading failures in global computer 
networks.
Attorney Dana Taschner of 
Newport Beach, CA, filed the lawsuit 
on behalf of Marcy Levitas Hamilton, 
a film editor and PC user who had her 
social security number and bank 
details stolen over the Internet.
The lawsuit seeks unspecified dam
ages and legal costs.
Microsoft said it would fight the 
attempt to certify the lawsuit as a 
class action.
This lawsuit comes in the wake of 
two major virus attacks that have 
taken advantage of flaws in Microsoft 
software.
Source: The Washington Post
Compiled by 
Brenda Reyes
i

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 6, 2003
PIZZA  HOAGIES  CALZONES  DINNERS
A/IMPC l CAI ADC l ADDITTI7SrDQ Wmbo wALAUw Mr i L i IZ.LK3896 Bigelow Boulevard  Oakland  Pittsburgh, PA 15213  (412) 621-2200  www.residenceinn.com/pitro
pH, Forum
Political Diversity 
Welcome.
THE TARTAN #
FREE DELIVERY
vwowanf sund i mh qwpwo.o
$7.5 million to overhaul the Internet goes to professors Zhang, Reiter; and Reddy
Microwaves heat food by inviting electrons to dance
Join us for a taste of home at the Residence lnn?> Gatehouse, where you can start your day right 
with a tall glass of OJ, steaming hot oatmeal, fresh scrambled eggs, or maybe some tasty waffles. 
ASK ABOUT OUR CMU RATES!
623 Greenfield Avenue 
Fax Your Orders to 421-0242 
Sunday-Thursday 11 am-11 pm, Friday & Saturday 11 am-Midnight
security portion of the new infra
structure.
If you look at the Internet today, it 
is pretty clear that the community 
who designed the Internet did not 
anticipate the degree of misuse and 
abuse that the Internet would be sub
jected to, said Reiter.
Since we are considering a funda
mental redesign of the network 
almost from scratch, we are going to 
look at the possibilities of not only 
designing the network to be more 
resistant intrinsically to the kind of 
misuse and abuse that we are seeing 
today, but also to be more robust 
against various types of attacks that 
we havent yet seen.
One of the unique things about 
this project is that we are going to 
take a step back, think ten years or 
further out, in designing this futuris
tic network, said Reiter. The securi
ty solutions that we will come up 
with wont be constrained by todays 
network, and that is the key point 
here.
Zhang added that they will design 
the network to be easy to understand. 
We cannot depend on something 
that we dont know much about, he 
said. If a system is so complex that 
we cannot understand it, we should 
not depend on it.
CMU will be the lead institution in 
this collaborative effort, with partic
ular concern for the networks archi
tecture, management, and security.
This is a high-risk project, said 
Zhang. Out of 100 similar projects, 
only five are usually successful, but 
obviously all the people in this pro
ject have a strong belief that we are 
onto something very important, that 
we are all very excited about.
MICROWAVES, from page A6
exterior that you have come to expect 
on some things.
The uniform heating of water that 
occurs in a microwave can also be 
dangerous  you may have heard of 
the dangers of superheating water in 
a microwave, and having it explode 
in your face.
Superheating refers to heating a 
liquid beyond its natural boiling 
point, and having it remain in the liq
uid phase. This can happen because 
water actually needs some sort of 
physical disruption to boil.
When you heat water on a stove, 
the heating isnt uniform, and the 
heat is being transferred into the
412-421-2121
the Internet is not very secure and 
makes other information infrastruc
tures on top of the Internet vulnera
ble.
We want the Internet to play a 
larger role in our society, but we need 
a radical change to the underlying 
technology and a fresh look at the 
architecture of the Internet, he said.
Stanford professor Nick McKeown 
shared Zhangs 
view. Together, 
they wrote a 
brief paper out
lining their 
beliefs. Zhang 
and McKeown 
later presented 
the paper at a 
workshop 
where they met 
MdA Mnff with an NSF
program man
ager, who encouraged them to go for
ward with their ideas through the 
NSFs highly competitive Information 
Technology Research program.
This progression led to their fiveyear NSF grant to develop a replace
ment for current telecommunications 
systems.
At the same time, Raj Reddy, for
mer dean of SCS and Herbert A. 
Simon University Professor, wrote a 
proposal urging President George W. 
Bush to make the availability of 
broadband Internet connections a 
national priority.
Reddy later met with Zhang in 
order to identify ways and technolo
gies that would make such an imple
mentation possible.
Reddy will be dealing with the 
public policy issues of the project.
Zhang asserts that while the
Hui Zhang works to make Internet access faster for all. Zhang, along with fellow professors Raj Reddy and Michael Reiter, 
has received $7.5 million from the National Science Foundation to develop a replacement for current telecommunications 
systems  a faster broadband network to be implemented throughout the country.
water by the pan, which disturbs that 
water enough to initiate boiling.
Pans also tend to have rougher sur
faces than ceramic coffee mugs, for 
example, and the rough surface can 
help water boil.
When youre heating water or 
other liquids in a microwave, its wise 
to let it sit for a minute or so before 
you interact with it, in case its 
become superheated and failed to 
boil. If its obviously boiling, then 
youre fine, aside from the obvious 
dangers associated with touching hot 
stuff.
Besides the technical details of 
how a magnetron tube converts elec
tricity into microwave radiation, that 
is about it for how microwave ovens
RESIDENCE INN BY MARRIOTT
PITTSBURGH / OAKLAND
174 Spacious Suites (with full kitchens)
Three Meeting Rooms (over 2,000 sq. ft.)
Hot Breakfast Daily (including scrambled eggs and Belgian waffles) 
Evening Social Hour (Mon.-Thurs.)
Daily Newspaper
Shuttle Van Service (within 3-mile radius)
Secure Indoor Garage
24-Hour Message Center / Voice Mail 
Indoor Pool and Whirlpool 
Fitness Center
Cable TV with Premium Channels 
Pets Accepted
Laundry Facilities on Each Floor 
High Speed Internet
f 1  -r 
Students
by Teh Seng Keat
Staffwriter
Have you been fretting about the 
long hours that it takes to download 
your favorite movie trailers? Wishing 
your connection was as fast as the 
University Ethernet lines? Three 
CMU computer science professors are 
hoping to change all that.
The National 
Science 
Foundation 
(NSF) recently 
awarded a $7.5 
million grant to 
professors Hui 
Zhang, Raj 
Reddy, and 
Michael Reiter 
for their proposqwkGdnr Mnwanu 'a^ t0 develop a high-speed 
broadband network to replace the 
current existing telecommunications 
infrastructure that is used through
out the country. The proposal, 
dubbed 100 Megabits to 100 Million 
Homes, is an ambitious collabora
tive effort by CMU; Stanford; 
University of California, Berkeley; 
Rice University; Fraser Research Inc.; 
Internet2; AT&T Research; and the 
Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center to 
develop a new telecommunications 
framework that could provide fast 
and effective broadband connections 
to every home and business in 
America. Zhang is the director of the 
project and its principal investigator.
While [the Internet] has been a 
tremendous success, the current 
infrastructure does have its weak
nesses, said Zhang. For example,
Internet has been very successful, it 
was originally designed for different 
reasons, alluding to the origins of the 
Internet as a medium of information 
exchange between researchers and 
scientists.
The Internet didnt originally con
sider access, like connections to the 
network from homes, said Zhang. 
We need to use current technologies 
such as fiber and wireless technolo
gies to replace todays copper wires.
g..... mnimi 11 Jr
However, the project will not focus 
on building such a network, which 
would cost billions of dollars.
Zhang believes that the task would 
likely be undertaken by telecommu
nications corporations.
The project will instead focus on 
preparing the intellectual framework 
that would make such a goal possi
ble.
The goal of the project is to create 
a blueprint for the new network,
identifying the different problems 
that it will face and solving them, 
said Zhang. He said they were taking 
an interdisciplinary approach, look
ing at not only the technical aspects 
of the problem, but also the econom
ic and security issues involved.
Reiter will be leading the security 
development of this new network. 
Reiter, who also specializes in com
puter security and applied cryptogra
phy, is primarily concerned with the
Frequency
work. Next time you are on time to 
class because you did not have to wait 
for an old-fashioned toaster to cook
Bum Lee/Art Editor
your breakfast, you will know who to 
thank  Percy Spencer and all those 
dancing electrons.
ROOM TO RELAX, ROOM TO WORK, $00M TO BREATHE.
Infrared 
Light
Microwaves
RadioGamma
1 flhz2*5 GhzbOOODO GhzlOOQOQOOOO Ghz
Visible 
Light Ultra Violet 
ht
X-Rays
ito artAResidenceInn
Harriott
\y

---------------------------------------------------

onm tie
KBS box, ';
s eLiterature
4:30 - 6:00pm 6:00 - 7:00pm 8:00 & 10:00pm 10pm
Thursday, Octo6er9, 2003
Keynote Lecture: Cristina Garcia Lecture Reception & Book Signing AB Film: Velvet GoldmineNot Just Tango: Hispanic Cabaret Series: Argentina
McConomy Auditorium Connan Room McConomy Auditorium 
Skibo Coffehouse
10:00am - 8:00pm
12:00 - 1:00pm 12:00 - 1:00pm 
1 
1 
1 
2
00 - 2:00pm 00 - 2:00pm 30 - 2:30pm 00 - 3:00pm
3:00 - 4:00pm 3:00 - 4:00pm 3:30 - 4:30pm 4:00pm 6:00 - 8:00pm
8:00 - 10:00pm 10pm
10pm & Midnight
(Friday, Octo6er 10, 2003
Gallery Show Exhibit: J.S.G. Boggs: .Money Images: The Cultural Iconography of CurrencySouth Indian Classical Dance WorkshopPersonal Journey: Salma Zahr: Experiences in the Middle EastJapanese Woodworking Demonstration
David Lewis: Ethnic Pittsburgh through Art and Architecture
Salsa Dance WorkshopPersonal Journey by Ashok Kanagasundram:The Rome-Esquilino Mural Flamenco Dance Workshop Hip-Hop 101 by Little Egypt Pysanky Egg Demonstration 
Cultural Student Food Fair Gallery Reception: J.S.G. Boggs:
Money Images: The Cultural Iconography of Currency The Duquesne University Tamburitzans (house opens at 7:30) Concert by Little Egypt AB Film: Whale Rider
UC Art Gallery
Rangos 3 McKenna Room Peter Room McKenna Room 
Rangos 1 McKenna Room
Rangos 1 Connan Room Peter Room 
Rangos 2, 3 UC Art Gallery
Rangos Ballroom The Underground McConomy Auditorium
10:00am - 5:00pm
11:00am - 12:00pm
11:00am - 2:00pm 11:00am - 3:00pm 11:30am - 1:00pm 12:00 - 1:00pm 
12:00 - 3:00pm
1:00 - 2:30pm
1:30 - 2:00pm 2:00 - 3:00pm 2:00pm & 8:00pm
2:30 - 3:30pm 
3:00 - 4:00pm 3:30 - 4:30pm 3:30 - 4:30pm 4:00 - 5:00pm 
4:00 - 5:00pm
4:30 - 5:30pm8pm & 10pm & Midnight10pm
Saturday, Octoer 11, 2003
Gallery Show Exhibit: J.S.G. Boggs;Money Images: The Cultural Iconography of Currency Personal Journey by Anisha Anantapadmanabhan:Carnatic Music from India African Batik Workshop & Lunch Study Abroad Fair 
Piata Making Workshop African and Afro-Cuban Storytelling 
International Bazaar:
Food and Craft Vendors, Live Music by Soma Mestizo Lecture by J.S.G. Boggs:
Money Images: The Cultural Iconography of Currency Study Abroad Information Session for Family Members
UC Art Gallery
Dowd Room
McKenna Room 
Wean Commons Peter & Wright Rooms Dowd Room Rangos Ballroom
McConomy Auditorium
Peter & Wright RoomsTuika's Polynesian Island Magic Dance Performance and Workshop Connan RoomCarnegie Mellon School of Drama Production:Measure for Measure Origami Workshop I
Personal Journey by Paul Pinto: Ain't Got Time to Siesta Tango Dance Workshop African Woodcarving Demonstration 
Sri Lankan Dance Performance & Workshop On Art and Cannibalism:
Aspects on Latin-American Contemporary' Art at the Beginning of the Century ReSunSum African Drum and Dance Performance and Workshop Rangos 3 SDC Film: Frida McConomy Auditorium
Not Just Tango: Hispanic Cabaret Series: Argentina Skibo Coffeehouse
Philip Chosky Theater Purnell Center Peter Room Wright Room Rangos 3 
McKenna Room Connan Room Peter Room
For descriptions of the events during International Festival visit www.cmu.edu/internationalfestival For more information contact the Division of Student Affairs at 412.268.2075

---------------------------------------------------

Letters to the Editor
rum
THE TARTAN6 October 2003
Measure for measure, new driving 
laws fall short of safety for citizens
capped, because drowsiness and stress can be 
as dangerous on the road as many drinks, and 
usually much more dangerous than just a cou
ple drinks. Police who supervise the roads and 
the states that support them need to establish 
tests for determining unsuitability for driving 
beyond the standard Breathalyzer. As it 
stands, a person who has had two drinks will 
spend a night in jail, while a student who 
drove home after 48 hours of studying will 
walk scot-free.
New Jerseys Maggies Law makes driving 
while drowsy an offence prosecutable with 
vehicular homicide and a $100,000 fine. 
Pennsylvania should follow New Jerseys 
example and pass a similar law appropriate for 
a state known for its large, young, drinking 
college population. There is a level of irre
sponsibility in under both the influence of 
alcohol or lack of sleep, even if one looks a bit 
less noble.
Making Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, and U.S. 
roads safer starts with good education of 
mature drivers, not more laws, and ends with 
accountability from the state. If we continue to 
churn 16-year-olds through poor drivers edu
cation program and then smile at them when 
they screw up, at whatever age, we condemn 
our roads to remain the death trap they are 
now. Initial drivers exams should be made 
tougher to weed out the people without the 
sharp mental and physical reflexes to control 
2000 pounds plus of potentially deadly 
weapon. No amount of quibbling over blood 
alcohol levels or cell phones will save the day.
Until politicians start making hard choices 
and stop vote pandering however, it is left to 
the citizens of the country to take up a mantle 
of responsibility, question their own abilities 
before getting behind the wheel, and telling 
little Johnny no about a drivers license at 16, 
even if the law says otherwise.
Complying with a federal mandate to 
reduce the blood alcohol threshold to .08 per
cent, Pennsylvania dropped its DUI level from 
its previous threshhold of .10. The Washington 
D.C. city council last week began considering a 
move that many municipalities are making, 
restrictions on the use of cell phones while dri
ving. These types of legislation are commend
able because they curb behavior in which 
someone is putting their own convenience 
above fellow drivers safety, not to mention 
their own. Unfortunately, while necessary, 
these type of law gives politicians something 
to quibble over while the larger issue goes 
unattended.
Driving is an unsafe proposition for a myri
ad reasons. To really make the roads safe, we 
should first start with getting the 16-year-olds 
off the road. These youngest drivers tend to 
have the most-single car accidents, and tend to 
have the most crashes due to driver error. Fully 
half of male 16-year-olds will wreck before 
they have driven for six months. Even 
Pennsylvanias inexperienced driver laws, 
known as Cinderella laws, dont turn enough 
kids into pumpkins before they can careen into 
other hapless drivers or into ditches.
But given Americas hyper-individuality, and 
its faith in its children, the federal government 
should be requiring states to inflict harsh 
penalties on drunk drivers, not quibbling over 
blood alcohol levels. There is certainly no rea
son anyone who gets behind the wheel drunk 
twice should ever drive again. Instead, we 
have perpetrators' walking away from DUIs 
with slaps on the wrist like short license sus
pensions and fines. Lack of regard for fellow 
citizens rights and lives should be punished 
severely.
Driving responsibly extends to areas outside 
of alcohol as well. People should drive while 
well-rested, while not emotionally-handiBum Lee/Art Editpr
MM|
Logic misses mark, 
but inflatables a hit
And of those who do know about the horrif
ic events of that fateful day, few know 
about the actions taken in the weeks and 
months following the attack, to discover 
exactly what happened and to bring those 
involved to justice.
The Sabra and Shatila massacre occurred 
on Thursday, September 16, 1982, in two 
refugee camps along the Lebanese-Israeli 
border. Preceding the attacks, Lebanon was 
in the midst of a civil war between its 
Christian and the Muslim citizens. On Sept. 
14, members of the Palestinian Liberation 
Organization (PLO) bombed a building in 
Ashrafiyeh, Beirut, assassinating PresidentElect Bashir Gemayel, a staunch ally of 
Israel. After the attack the assassins fled to 
Palestinian refugee camps of Sabra and 
Shatila.
Within twenty-four hours Israeli Defense 
Secretary Ariel Sharon met with the Prime 
Minister and cabinet members, and decided 
Israel would enter West Beirut. Preceding 
the entry, Ariel Sharon issued a series of 
orders, amongst which it was explicitly stat
ed that: The refugee camps are not to be 
entered. Searching and mopping up the 
camps will be done by the Phalangists/ 
Lebanese Army. But that the Lebanese 
army is entitled to enter any place in 
Beirut, according to its request.
At approximately 8:30 pm, Israels Chief 
of Staff spoke directly with the commanders 
of the Christian Phalangist forces and asked 
them to prepare forces for mobilization. 
Later that night the Chief of Staff, 
Phalangist Leader, and Defense Secretary 
Ariel Sharon met at an Israeli command 
post where it was decided and that 
Phalangists would enter the camps and seek 
out any PLO members in hiding. Yet upon 
making this agreement Sharon overlooked 
a serious detail; nearly every member of the
Christian Phalangists had lost family mem
bers to the PLO at one point or other 
throughout the civil war. Upon the murder 
of their leader, tension and anger towards 
the PLO had risen to unprecedented levels, 
and when the Phalangists entered the camp 
they not only murdered the remaining PLO 
members, but in an act of revenge murdered 
hundreds of innocent Palestinians.
Following the attack the Israeli govern
ment launched a formal investigation into 
the acts of the Phalangists, Ariel Sharon, 
and Prime Minister Menachem Begin. The 
Israeli Government noted in its final report 
that Prime Minister Begin was: found 
responsible for not exercising greater 
involvement and awareness in the matter of 
introducing the Phalangists into the 
camps.
Ariel Sharon was: found responsible for 
ignoring the danger of bloodshed and 
revenge when he approved the entry of the 
Phalangists into the camps as well as not 
taking appropriate measures to prevent 
bloodshed. Sharon was relieved of hjis 
duties as Defense Secretary and required to 
submit a formal, written apology.
It is important for the world to know what 
happened in the Sabra and Shatila camps 
on September 14,1983. But it is also impor
tant for people to know that the event was 
not ignored or overlooked and that those 
involved with the terrible events have been 
to justice. Ariel Sharon, though not directly 
involved with the attacks, was held respon
sible for his involvement with the 
Phalangists and has served his punishment.
To read the official investigation?: 
h t t p : / / w w w . i s r a e 1|- 
mfa. gov. il/mfa/go. asp? MFAHOignO
In response to the September 29th issues 
article, I want my quarterback, I would 
like to express some rebuttal.
1. You wrote:
Is bouncety-bounce really what gets us 
CMU students outside?
If [student body president Daniel 
Gilmans] statement that the event is wellattended is correct, then yes, bouncetybounce must to some degree get CMU stu
dents outside.
2. I fail to see the logic behind your sup
port for allocating money even for some 
crappy rock or hip-hop act that raises no 
money before advocating money for an 
event that both brings CMU students 
together to celebrate philanthropy and rais
es $4000 for what many would consider a 
worthwhile cause.
I hope that this feedback will be helpful to 
you in thinking through statements to be 
written in future articles. I am open to dis
cussion if you wish.
Carnegie Mellon should give up on 
diploma issue, students want minors
This year, Carnegie Mellon University is 
again trying to remove minors from the diplo
mas given to graduates. Apparently, it is a 
burning issue for the administration, because 
they attempted the same thing last year, with 
President Jared Cohon going so far as to send 
out a campus-wide e-mail detailing the pro
posed change and the reasons for it. Students 
expressed such dismay and disagreement that 
the issue was put off until this year.
Why cant the administration give up on this 
one? This year will be no different. Students 
still work just as hard to finish requirements 
for their areas of study and pay even more 
money for that piece of paper than last year. 
Contrary to the belittling attitude the adminis
tration has towards minors, many students 
take on challenging minors that complement 
their primary area of study.
Some students, such as computer science 
majors, are required to complete a minor. 
Many students might take on more than one 
minor in an effort to tailor their education to a 
particular career goal, or define their own 
minor.
They expect to see their efforts reflected on 
their diploma. Also, some minors do not have 
a corresponding major. Examples of this 
include Religious Studies and Environmental 
Policy. If a student has the desire to go into 
graduate study in such a field, getting the 
minor on their diploma is important.
A Carnegie Mellon education costs over 
$130,000. After collecting this much money, 
the administration has no right to remove 
from student diplomas their efforts to get their 
moneys worth.
No student should be discouraged from 
doing everything possible to get the most out 
of CMU by taking up another area of study. 
This is the most expensive piece of paper a stu
dent will ever earn.
The administrations justifications for this 
ill-conceived effort- border on ridiculous. The 
administration believes that removing stu
dents minors will result in a cleaner and more 
aesthetically pleasing diploma. This design 
judgment by the folks in Warner Hall could be
true, but is certainly not grounds for unilater
ally removing some rather valuable content. 
Students do not care exactly how their diplo
ma is laid out, but rather whats on it. What is 
the logic in trying to standardize the look of 
the diploma in the first place? Some students 
will walk away from CMU with double or even 
triple majors. Does the administration plan on 
removing everything but a students primary 
major from their diploma? Making a mountain 
out of this molehill issue is pointless and irre
sponsible.
The administration also cited another justi
fication for removing minors: diplomas are 
hung on walls and only meant to confirm that 
a student has completed a degree at a univer
sity.
While it is true that employers do not value 
seeing diplomas very much, students obvious
ly do. Last May, student outcry was so intense 
that Student Senate began a petition. The pri
mary reason for such dismay is that students 
were not aware of such a change until a few 
weeks before graduation. Hopefully, the 
administration will not try to slip such an 
action past the students again this semester.
The real reason for the butchering of diplo
mas may have nothing to do with who sees the 
diploma or what it the diploma looks like. 
Many of CMUs peer institutions have imple
mented the policy of not printing minors. For 
example, Princeton and MIT do not print track 
or minor information. Georgetown does not 
even print a major on their diplomas! Perhaps 
this is what Georgetown students want, but 
this is obviously not the case at Carnegie 
Mellon. The problem is that Carnegie Mellons 
administration is programmed to keep up 
with peer institutions on all issues. Blindly fol
lowing this policy does not always represent 
the interests or desires of students. Warner 
Hall must understand that its okay for CMU to 
not fall in line on every issue, especially on 
something that is as trivial what gets printed 
on students diplomas. Students are the ones 
that earn them, frame them, and put them on 
the wall. We should get what we want on 
them.
Rebecca Reitmeyer 
H&SS 02
The story behind 
Shatila and Sabra
Two weeks ago the fence was painted to 
resemble the Palestinian flag upon which 
was written the following statement: 
Bring Sharon to justice for the Sabra and 
Shatila massacre. Today very few people 
remember or know about what happened 
twenty-one years ago in Southern Lebanon.Mika Larrison 
Junior Design
Andrew Johnson
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellons Student Newspaper Since 1906 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
ANDREW JOHNSON 
Editor-in-Chief
DANIEL GOLDMAN, Managing Editor 
ALEX MESEGUER, News Editor 
JEFF CULLERS, Photo Editor
L. QUINN ARROYO, Personnel Co-Manager 
JASON SUROVY, Personnel Co-Manager
Republican streak running through his poli
tics. Two years ago, Clark praised both Bush 
Administrations, Reagan, and Nixon at a 
Republican fundraiser. Clark even stated in 
speeches that he was thankful for the job the 
Bush Administration (W.s) was doing, and 
was glad that he and his Cabinet were there. 
In his current Democratic candidate field, 
there are men who have called Bush a liar, 
accused him of misleading the American 
people, and simply have expressed distrust 
in his leadership abilities. Clearly, Clarks 
previous behaviors were in stark contrast to 
his current fellow partisans views.
Hes a career military officer, serving 
since Vietnam, a war where he fought in a 
pivotal role. Clark plans to run on his long 
military record as a source of strength for 
his campaign. Clarks political inexperience 
(he has never held an elected position) is
proving to be a difficult factor to overcome 
for many. Many party regulars wish to sup
port him, but are simply unable to at this 
point, citing his naivete as a factor. Clark 
fumbled with his views on the issues early in 
his campaign, shifting from pro-Iraq-war t) 
against. Also, many Democratic congress
men and Senators have yet to endorse him 
because they do not see his policies coming 
together into coherent and experienced 
points of view.
Another piece of evidence as to Clarkes 
political confusion is his voter registration 
status. Clark is still registered as an 
Independent in the state of Arkansas. In 
fact, Clark even voted for Ronald Reagan. 
And while that was a good decision, it is a 
seemingly odd one to make for a man now
EDITORIAL STAFF
CELANIE POLANICK, Pillbox Editor 
KAREN HOFFMANN, Sei. & Tech. Editor 
BARY DUNN, Sports Editor*
NEAL SHYAM, Comics Editor 
BUM LEE, Art Editor 
CHRISTOPHER CHAN, Online Editor 
NICK ENNIS, Business Manager 
CATHY OH, Advertising Manager 
JIM PULS, Production Manager 
JAMES AUWAERTER, Copy Manager 
RYA BARAZ, Darkroom Manager
MARINA KLIGER, Asst. Art Editor 
J.T. TROLLMAN, Asst. Photo Editor 
REKHA NAIR, Asst. Advertising Manager 
JANE PARK, Asst. Advertising Manager 
MEG RICHARDS, Asst. Production Manager
Ben Hackett
The Democratic field for President gained 
one more entry in recent weeks, as general 
Wesley Clark became the tenth Democrat to 
seek the nomination, adding to the confu
sion already pervading the left. Clark is 
beloved by the Clintons and other leftist par
tisans around the country. Additionally, 
unlike roughly half of the current candi
dates for the party nomination, this poten
tial nominee has been pushed to the fore
front and is now a frontrunner for the 
Democratic nod. But who is this former mil
itary man turned Democratic savior?
Well, hes a man with a cumbersome
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS
John Davin, Cheryl Tomblin, 
Julie Watt
See CLARK, page A10Denotes acting position

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 6, 2003Aio
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellons Student Newspaper Since 1906
SENIOR STAFF 
Albert Cohen, Michael Croland
STAFFWRITERS 
Adam Atkinson, Tim Bowen, Kevin 
Chang, Jeannie Choi, Shilpa Desai, Joe 
Elliott, Adam Greenberg, Israel 
Guzman, Ben Hackett, Colin Holloway, 
Teh Seng Keat, Molly McAshan, Laura 
Palotie, Matt Rado, Brenda Reyes, 
Lauren Sauer, Anubhav Nikhil Sinha, 
Caleb Stright, Evan Sundwick, Preston t 
Treichel, Dinah Winnick, Hannah Yi"^;;
ART
Kohta Asakura, Jeremy Canceko, /' 
Sherry Chang, Jennifer Keinard,
John Kim, Bridget Lewis, Grace Li, 
Julie Qiu, Vanessa Shyu
COMICS
Amy Bickerton, Franz Harter, Aaron 
Kablack, Nick Marino, Scott Niekum, Eli 
Pousson, Gregory Prichard, Bob Rost, 
Ed Ryan, Joe Sellers, Geoffrey 
Washburn, Daniel Vogel
PHOTO
Anthony DAuria, Wenyao Ho, 
Veronique Lee, Orathai Sukwong, 
David Rush, Mark Rau, Shafeeq 
Sinnamonideen
COPY
Michelle Bova, Catherine Fan, Helen 
Gruner, Adina Klein, Arthur ODwyer, 
Annalisa Schaefer
AD STAFF 
Sureena Bhansali, Patricia Chon, 
Julian Chun, Prantik Kundu, Jennifer 
Lin, Aditi Raturi, Heidi Woo, Mike 
Yang, Ranie You
JUNIOR STAFF 
Jennifer Anttonen, Sid Butalia, Chris 
Casinghino, Dan Ceppos, Namtarn 
Chaipan, Erin Danehy, Ryan Faught, 
Steven Goldberg, James Hart, Kirk 
Higgins, Eugene Hsia, Ponnurangam 
Kumaraguru, Andy Lee, Molly 
McAshan, Will Minton, Stephanie 
Natale, Rachel Papernick, Janet Park, 
Susan Peich, Jairan Sadeghi, Kathy 
Saye, Christina Shin, James Tetlow, 
Cecilia Westbrook, Lucas Yiannatji
The Tartan is the student newspaper of Carnegie 
Mellon University. The first issue is free. 
Additional copies can be purchased for $0.25 
each. It is a weekly newspaper published by stu
dents during the fall and spring semesters. It is
printed by Western Pennsylvania Printing, Inc.....
Subscriptions are available for the semester or 
academic year. The editorials appearing at the 
beginning of the opinion section are the official 
opinion of The Tartan editorial board. Columns 
and political cartoons are the opinions of indi
vidual creators. The Tartan reserves the right to 
reject or condense any column or political car
toon. Letters to the Editor are opinions of 
authors who are usually, but not necessarily, 
members of the University community. A letter 
intended for publication must be signed and 
include the writer's address and phone number 
for verification. Names may be withheld upon 
request. The Tartan requests that letters be no 
longer than 350 words. The Tartan reserves the 
right to condense or reject any letter. Letters to 
the Editor must be submitted by 5 pm the 
Thursday before publication. Copyright  2002 
by The Tartan. The Tartan editorial board 
reserves the right to withhold from publication 
any copy it deems unfit for publication. Office: 
University Center Room 314. Phone: (412) 268- 
2111. Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/ 
Carnegie Mellon University/
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890.
Email: tartan@andrew.cmu.edu 
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress 
ISSN#:0890-3107.
The Tartan is a member of 
the Associated Collegiate 
Press.
David BertucciSophomoreMechanical Engineering
That blue thing that CFA dumped on the Cut.
Allison LinJuniorBusiness Administration 
The frat quad for the quality beer.
Gary WuFirst-year student Mechanical Engineering
The trucks because he would eat 
them like ice cream sandwiches.
Neal SussmanJuniorBusiness Administration
Definitely Scaife, because to him, 
itll look like a sinfully delectable 
Pringle chip.
Indrani MondalSeniorComputer Science
Wean because its ugly and it 
smells.
With mid-terms approaching, we wanted to remind the student body that their A D t D O M
falling grades are the not the end of the world: i bltvUll w
If Godzilla were to come to campus, what would he destroy?OPINION
Compiled and photos by Kathy Saye
Hillary, 
Biliary, 
and Clark
CLARK, from page A9
ensconced in liberal politics. As the 
Democrats scurry to beat Bush, one 
must wonder if they did not try to beat 
Bush at his own game by finding a for
mer Republican supporter with mili
tary experience.
Clark, however, has no real shot at 
beating President Bush. His greatest 
strength, his military record, is a hol
low strength. As NATOs senior mili
tary officer and commander of the 
U.S. European Command (EUCOM), 
Clark was less than sterling in his per
formance. One can observe security 
failures that occurred under Clarks 
watch during the Clinton administra
tion. In August of 1998, al-Qaeda 
bombed the U.S. Embassy in Dar es 
Salaam, Tanzania. This particular 
event occurred in a nation in his area 
of responsibility. It should be pointed 
out that he was the administrator over 
the war in Kosovo. And as many of you 
readers may remember, the war in 
Kosovo was done without UN approval 
and was brought to a country that 
posed no threat to the United States 
now or in the future. To cover himself 
against the anti-war wing of the 
Democratic Party, General Wes now 
attempts to criticize the Bush adminis
tration on failure to heed warnings. 
Still, it doesnt seem like it should 
shore him up very effectively. So how 
has a man who seems out of place in a 
Democratic primary moved to the 
front of the pack?
In fact, there are higher forces at 
work behind Clark. The keepers of the 
liberal flame, the Clintons, are prop
ping up Clark as if they themselves 
were running for office. And through 
Clark, the Clintons, namely Hillary, 
are in fact setting up for a presidential 
run. As speculation continues sur
rounding Hillarys intentions concern
ing a 2004 presidential bid, some 
believe that The General is nothing 
more than a placeholder for Hillary.
Think of Wesley as a potential prize
fighter being trained by Hillary and 
Biliary Clinton. The Clintons drafted 
him, knowing fully that he did not 
have a chance of beating Bush or 
maybe even Howard Dean. Doing this 
allowed Hillary to get into the spot
light, and take the heat off of her 
potential presidential bid. Hillary, 
with her mind never made up on 
whether or not she is entering the 
race, has simply offered up a sacrifice 
to ensure her future entry into the 
2008 Presidential race. Nevertheless, 
this is not to say that Clark will not 
make a fine Democratic candidate. In 
reality, he is already filling those shoes 
nicely. Clark has engaged in complete 
changes in ideology, reversing his for
mer support of the war in Iraq, into his 
current platform plank of Iraq criti
cism. Most importantly, his hypocriti
cal nature is coming into its own.
The Hillary Conspiracy surrounding 
Clark continues and grows increasing
ly interesting. There is a possibility 
that if Clark were to secure the 
Democratic nomination, he would 
then ask Hillary to become his vice 
president. However, many in the field 
agree that Hillary is simply offering up 
Clark, hoping to sacrifice him in this 
election, so that she can run as the 
Democratic savior in 2008. Each and 
every one of these possible scenarios 
is equally horrifying. Assuming her 
plan comes into fruition and she runs 
in 2008, and somehow wins, Ill be 
writing these pieces from Canada.
. j
Ben Hackett (b>hackett@J is a sopho
more social and decision sciences major.
He welcomes all responsible replies.
A video a week keeps democracy at bay
6 SprtsA**
0 Jeff Cullers
Eat n Park is your fate if you wont fight
DINING, from page A9
Daniel Gilman (sbp@) ran on a campaign plat
form whose main issue was dining. All the candi
dates ran with this plank, but as elected president 
its now his responsibility to make some changes. 
Send him an e-mail with suggestions like the ones 
I will later give, and make him ram them home. 
Its his job. Or send them directly to Parkhurst 
Manager Jane Fahringer (janef@). Or send them 
directly to me, and Ill print every coherent word 
(johnson3@).
If you have ever spoken with administrators at 
this school, you would probably have picked up 
on a dogged loyalty to CMU, and even to its stu
dents. Of all my dealings with Murphy, Cohon, 
and even William Elliott, vice president of enroll
ment, I have never seen petty personal motiva
tions, just devotion to CMU. Parkhurst wants your 
money and nothing more. They care nothing for 
you; they care nothing for CMU. That salad bar 
started with a bottom line analysis. Your new rec 
center, Scotland Yard, started with ypu in mind. 
Dining is so critical to student life at Carnegie 
Mellon that it must be overseen by the people 
who care so much about CMU.
My short-term suggestions for Parkhurst stress 
the lack of thought placed in food preparation at 
this school. One of the things I eat the most on 
campus is a bowl of pasta from the second floor of 
the U.C. With proper planning, and no increase in 
dollars spent, Parkhurst could improve on their
mediocre sauce and overcooked noodles. The 
pasta now is edible, but just barely. I eat it 
because Im a vegetarian and there is little else. 
Their sauce needs more garlic and basil, and it 
needs diced green peppers. They should add 
some Italian tomatoes, grown in volcanic soil, so 
as to cut down on the acidity of the sauce (though 
I cant say for certain whether it does). I know 
how it should be done because I worked at a fine 
Italian restaurant this summer. If dining would be 
willing, I could get my boss, a master chef, to con
sult on their Italian food, probably for free.
As for the noodles, they are largely overdone. 
Barilla is a cheap brand of dried pasta, and still 
probably the worlds best. It should be dumped in 
rapidly boiling water, quickly brought to a boil 
again, and then cooked uncovered until it is al 
dente. The pasta should be slightly undercooked 
and preserved with vegetable oil in a refrigerator 
to mass prep it. It can then be rinsed and cooked 
a slight bit more in water later for serving.
Asian cuisine here is also disastrous. Im no 
expert in the area, but I have done a significant 
amount of stir-frying. Fried rice is easy to do well, 
but somehow they fail. The last time I did it, I took 
some finely diced carrots, fresh peas, and ginger 
and fried them a bit in sesame oil. Then I added 
some eggs and soy sauce, then some rice and 
more soy sauce after the eggs were scrambled. If 
getting the sauce right is too hard, they really can 
just stick to soy sauce for stir-frying vegetables 
and noodles as well. Whatever they are currently
using tastes rancid and covers poorly cooked rice 
and egg noodles. The salad bar too could be more 
user-friendly. Right now, you can get an afford
able salad if you choose the right ingredients, but 
add cucumbers or tomatoes to your dish and suf
fer the consequences. These can be sold affordably to students if Parkhurst will think outside the 
box of a weight-only based system.
Give them hell, my fellow students. Until 
Parkhurst is gone, you can do your bit to make life 
hard for them. Patronize S Seor, the CKs 
Pretzel shop, and the O, and avoid crummy 
Parkhurst food. But even I want my pasta as a 
break from S Seor and the trucks sometimes; I 
lack the courage of my convictions. I would take 
strength in yours though. I will boycott all of 
Parkhursts establishments if you will join me. 
One e-mail is all it will take, one fellow.
In the meantime, for those of you on the meal 
plan, take those unused blocks at the end of the 
day or period or week, and swipe your card at one 
of the independent establishments, and say I 
dont want anything, Im just hurting Parkhurst. 
Its those unused blocks that their business plan 
depends on.
Andrew Johnson (johnson3@J is the Editor-inChiefofThe Tartan. He joined in January 2002 as 
news editor because the paper lacked one. He fore
sees that same situation arising in January 2004, 
because its a tough job. Maybe you have a drum to 
beat.
In Arab politics, there always seems to be a 
plethora of tapes. They are a status symbol for 
Arab spokesmen representing many viewpoints, 
especially that of anti-Americanism. Tapes are 
used extensively by fiery clerics to reach an audi
ence beyond the walls of their mosques. Even 
though Saddam Hussein and Osama bin Laden 
are supposed to be dead, both seem to be churn
ing out a steady stream of tapes urging jihad 
against Americans and Israelis.
September was an especially productive month 
for inflammatory tapes by these two nemeses of 
America. On September 1, Saddam came out with 
a tape disavowing responsibility for the August 29 
car bombing in Najaf that killed influential cleric 
Mohammed Bakir Hakim. Perhaps Saddam want
ed to clarify the type of violence that he was call
ing for in other tapes during the summer, which 
rallied Iraqis to rise up in holy war against the 
American forces and assured future victory. 
Hardly two weeks had passed before Saddam 
released another tape renewing his call for jihad. 
Not to be outdone, bin Laden put out a 105- 
minute tape on the 2-year anniversary of the 
September 11 attacks, complete with flowery 
praise of the perpetrators, predictions of an 
Islamic victory, and a call to eradicate American 
infidels.
Al-Qaeda top dog Ayman al-Zawahiri also got 
in on the action with a tape warning against an 
American, Jewish, and Indian alliance against 
Muslims on a crusade to eradicate Islam. The 
obligatory call for jihad was thrown in for good 
measure. After last years al-Qaeda bombing in 
Bali and the disastrous takeover of a Moscow the
ater by Chechen rebels, tapes praising these 
events surfaced within weeks.
Nearly all these tapes are broadcast worldwide 
by the Qatar-based Arab satellite network alJazeera. Most tapes are exclusively obtained by 
al-Jazeera reporters. Some al-Jazeera officials are 
former BBC employees. Others have been accused 
of being terrorists.
Early in September, a reporter was jailed in 
Spain on suspicion of being a member of alQaeda. For U.S. policy makers, dealing with alJazeera is obviously a tricky business. Its impossi
ble to shut it down since al-Jazeera is the closest 
thing to an Arab free press.
Dealing with this powerful network, which reg
ularly broadcasts material calling for Americas 
destruction, is a challenge. Before the invasion, 
U.S. officials, including Condoleezza Rice, 
appeared on al-Jazeera to discuss the U.S.s posi
tion. During the invasion of Iraq, al-Jazeera was 
allowed to imbed reporters with U.S. forces, but 
got in trouble for broadcasting images of dead 
American soldiers and wounded POWs.
However, its more than just the American gov
ernment that has a bone to pick with al-Jazeera. 
In addition to charges of being Osama bin Ladens 
mouthpiece, the network receives much ire from 
the governments of Egypt and Saudi Arabia, 
which it criticizes extensively, and of course from 
Israel as well for bias in their coverage and poli
tics.
The central issue here is whether al-Jazeera 
helps or hurts the Arab world, especially in the 
context of relations with the West. Being contro
versial is not necessarily bad. Ostensibly alJazeera tries to be fair, running under the motto 
Opinion, and the other opinion. They should be 
applauded for giving American and even Jewish 
officials airtime.
The problem is not that al-Jazeera has an agen
da. It can be argued that most big Western news 
networks do as well. The problem is that the envi
ronment in which al-Jazeera operates, which is 
the Arab world, has trouble coping with a free 
press.
When Osama bin Laden, who garners much 
support from the Arab street, issues a call for jihad 
against Americans that is broadcast to millions 
over al-Jazeera, people listen and take action. 
When George Bush issues a call to arms, no 
American off the street is going to go to Iraq and 
wage guerilla warfare against the Iraqis. 
Continuing to spew anti-American propaganda to 
impressionable Muslims eager to take up a cause 
does Arab countries no good in the long run.
As long as oil flows from the Middle East, 
America and the Arab countries are stuck with 
each other. This relationship could be a whole lot 
better if the Arab public was not fed so much antiAmerican propaganda. Al-Jazeera represents the 
most effective propaganda machine in the Middle
Bum Lee/Art Editor
East. As a result, Iraq has become a general bat
tlefield for militants across the globe, thanks to 
the provocative material aired by Arab TV that 
glorifies Osama bin Laden and Saddam Hussein.
Al-Jazeera defends their policy of airing any 
tape they can get their hands on by saying that 
they are merely showing all sides of the story. All 
sides are important, but this policy is very irre
sponsible. No Arab really needs to see Osama bin 
Laden call for a jihad. Sensible Arabs themselves 
know that al-Jazeera, despite its status as the 
freest press in the Arab world, does not always 
help the Arab cause. Less than two weeks ago, 
Iraqs new governing council banned both alJazeera and its counterpart, al-Arabiya, from gov
ernment offices and press conferences. A 
spokesman for council president Ahmad Chalabi 
said that the ban was a step towards protecting 
the Iraqi people from the poisons being broad
cast by the channels.
This statement implies that the new govern
ment has accepted that the Iraqi people really do 
not know that it is in their best interests to coop
erate with American forces and are easily con
vinced otherwise.
The Arab public is far too susceptible to radical 
propaganda that networks such as al-Jazeera con
tinually spread. Such is the difference between a 
free press in the West arid a free press in the 
Middle East; differing points of view in the West 
lead to debates and maybe a few isolated inci
dents, while differing views in the Middle East 
often lead to jihad and terrorism.
Jeff Cullers (jcullers@J is a junior triple-major
ing in social and decision sciences, history, and eco
nomics. He also snaps a few photos.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 6, 2003An
YOUR AD HERE.
2 columns by 1.5 inches. 
$21.
advertising@thetartan.org
'CMqtH OdpfU$wkC
3444 FORBES AVE. ~ 681.9010 
PITTSBURGH
INTERNSHIPS 
LANGUAGE 
LIBERAL ARTS 
SCIENCE
www.bu.edu/abroad
BOSTON!
UNIVERSITY t
232 Bay State Road 
Boston, MA 02215 
617-353-9888 
Fax: 617-353-5402 
Financial aid is available
Administration
Intramural Director: Mike Mastroianni x8-2214, 
or mma8@
Assistant Director: Mike Grzywinski x8-2214, or 
immike@
Intramural Secretary: Amy Kiryk x8-2053, or 
kiryk@
Womens President: Karoline Evans koe@
Vice President: Shawn Quinn squinn@
Important Dates
Monday, October 6  Volleyball and 
Racquetball seasons start 
Wednesday, October 8  IM Cross Country Meet 
at 4:30pm in Schenley Park Flagstaff Hill 
Thursday, October 9  Mandatory Rules 
Meeting for Soccer at 4:30pm in the Arena Room 
Sunday, October 12  IM Golf Tournament at 
Schenley Park Golf Course
Sports in Season
held last week. The winners were Theta Xi MiniMes (Majots), PiKA A/Fresh Meat 
(Intermediate) and KUPC 7 and Under 
(Minors).
Tennis  Matches are underway at the 
University Courts. They are played Monday 
through Thursday nights. Only approved athletic 
shoes allowed to be used on the courts. Please 
stay off the courts until the varsity teams prac
tices are completely finished. Rain-out make up 
schedule is available in the IM Office.
Water Polo  Schedules are available in the IM 
Office. Games are played Monday and 
Wednesday nights at the UC Pool. Please remem
ber to follow the lifeguards instructions.
Bowling  The matches started last week, and 
are played at the PAA in Oakland on Sundays. 
Schedules are available in the IM Office. Please 
pay each week at the PAA and report scores to 
the IM Office.
Chess, Foosball  Schedules are available in the 
IM Office. Play all matches as scheduled and 
report scores to the IM Office.
Volleyball  The season starts tonight at the UC 
Courts. Games are played Monday through 
Thursday nights. Schedules are available at the 
IM Office.
Sports Upcoming
Cross Country  The IM Cross Country Meet 
will be Wednesday, October 8th at 4:30pm. The 
1.9 mile course will start on Flagstaff Hill and 
finish behind Phipps. More info is available at the 
IM Office.
Golf  The IM Golf Tournament will be at 
Schenley Park Golf Course on Sunday October 
12th. Tee off anytime between 8 am and 2 pm. 
Please sign in at the course. Green fees are $11 
with CMU ID. More info available at the IM 
Office.
Soccer  There is a mandatory rules meeting for 
soccer on Thursday, October 9th in the Arena 
Room at 4:30pm. All teams must have a repre
sentative at this meeting or they will be removed 
from the schedule.
All Sports Update
Men:
1. Theta Xi 300 
PiKA 300 
3. CIA 150
Women:
1. Fresh Meat 200
2. KUPC 100
Flag Football - Playoffs started yesterday at the 
stadium fields. They will continue through 
Thursday night with the championships being 
played Thursday at 8:30 and 9:30 pm. Please 
stay off the field during varsity practices.
Racquetball  The season starts tonight at the 
UC Courts. Matches are 2 singles and one dou
bles. Schedules are available at the IM Office.
All e-mail rosters must be received 24 hours before 
the posted deadline.
Co-Rec Volleyball  The championships were
Racism 
pervades NFL
COLIN, from page A12
Limbaugh was wrong to target the media in his 
assault, but many black coaches, who work just 
as hard as whites, are getting their shots due to 
the gratuity of the league office.
Steve McNair claimed he thought the issue of 
race was gone; perhaps in regards to players it 
is, but then its easy for fans to pick out the best 
player in any given group.
As wrong as Limbaugh was, and as out of line 
those who agree with him are, the underlying 
issue of race has been shoved under the rug too 
long in the NFL front office.
The league needs to grow a pair and admit 
that teams hire the best coaches for the job, 
regardless of race, no matter which color winds 
up on top.
Who cares if there are more white coaches? 
No one complains when out of 22 guys on a 
field only 2 or 3 are Caucasian.
Colin Holloway (colinh@J is a senior history 
major. He welcomes all responsible replies to his 
column, and will answer them timely as soon as 
he sobers up.
Crew team captures awards
by Bary Dunn
Sports Editor
The Carnegie Mellon mens club eight crew 
team emerged victorious at the 2003 Head of the 
Ohio Regatta on Saturday, winning their first ever 
Governors Cup as the fastest college crew team in 
Pennsylvania.
The team completed the 2.8-mile course in 13 
minutes, 49 seconds, placing sixth among the total 
24 crews teams represented at the event. The 
womens lightweight eight team won as well, 
while three other teams medalled.
Consider that the mens team won the event 
with someone elses boat and oars. Because crew 
is a club sport at Carnegie Mellon, the team often 
finds itself short of equipment, since the 
University does not supply funds for the club.
Equipment, however, by no means affects the 
dedication of these athletes. The team practices 
six days a week at 5:30 am, following a short run 
from campus to the Three Rivers boat house at 
Washingtons Landing. According to head coach 
Donald Webber-Plank, Our team has always been 
strong and dedicated, we have been doing really 
well.
Alongside the trait of dedication that the crew
members possess is their concept of unity.
Our team is very equal, said Webber-Plank. 
The men and women practice together, there are 
just as many women as there are men, and we - 
share the same equipment, practice times, and 
winning culture.
This Saturdays success, which also included 
medals for the womens lightweight four, the 
mens lightweight four, and the mens heavy
weight club four, was particularly special for 
Webber-Plank, who has turned the Carnegie 
Mellon crew team upside down. When he began 
with the team two years ago, a mere twenty dedi
cated crew members made up the entire team. 
This year, in Webber-Planks third season, there 
are eighty-five rowers.
From the time I began coaching through today, 
the team has always been strong and dedicated, 
Webber-Plank said. We continually stress team-. 
work, and the team buys into it.
In two weeks, the Carnegie Mellon crew team 
will compete at the Head of the Charles in Boston.
The following week they will compete at the 
Head of the Schuylkill in Philadelphia, perhaps 
the biggest event for this momentum-filled crew 
team. For the first time the Carnegie Mellon crew 
team will be the favorites in such aforementioned 
events.
Double Your Employment Opportunities info kit
Study Abroad to Double YourEmployment Opportunities
To get a F" Ft EE EE info kit
e-mail us: Free//o@Abroad/wRussia.com
or call us Toll Free: 1-866-889-9880
BRITISH AMERICAN DRAMA ACADEMY
Tony Branch - 
Director of the British American 
Drama Academy
will be here at 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Monday, October 13, 2003
at 11:30 a.m. in the 
Purnell Center for the Arts 
to meet with students interested 
in BADA's programs.
The London Theatre Program 
Presented in association with 
Sarah Lawrence College at 
Regents Park London.
The Midsummer in Oxford Program 
Presented with The Juilliard School 
and UCLA at Balliol College, Oxford.
The Shakespeare Program 
Presented in association with Skidmore 
College in Stratford-upon-Avon and 
in London.
All Welcome.
ATTENTION VEGETARIANS AND VEGANS!
Can you imagine yourself providing health education in 
Tonga, organizing a forestation project in Senegal, or teaching 
English in Uzbekistan?cT b b ' ;  /
210 graduates of CMU have served in the Peace Corps since 1961! 
Why not be 211?
Meet Peace Corps Campus Recruiter and former Volunteer 
Josh Stein:
Carnegie Mellon Study Abroad Fair 
Saturday, October 11,2003
University Center 
11:00 am-3:00 pmPeace Corns
Life is calling. How far willyou go? 
www.peacecorps.gov 800.424.8580
AUSTRALIA 
BELIZE 
CHINA 
ECUADOR 
ENGLAND 
FRANCE 
GERMANY 
IRELAND 
ISRAEL 
ITALY 
NEW ZEALAND 
NIGER 
RUSSIA 
SPAIN 
SWITZERLAND 
U.S.A.
HGunn 1rdUcuO ac lGccOn 1ucoy 
RpfwdpV qnPwkdpV bduTnk.n 
100% qndarnOO i SudT dpf Go (dk)dJn 
,cE sUdwrdTrn da qdwpOaunna qdu)na 
wp ,nEnrrg-wocp sauw.o
A.V.I. Foodsystems. Inc.
Bring this ad in for 50 cents off!
Come meet Leilani Olson from Boston University International Programs 
Saturday, October 11,11 a.m. - 3 p.m.
Education Opportunities Abroad Fair, Wean and Kirr Commons

---------------------------------------------------

Sports
,6 October 2003THE TARTANPage A12Soccer teams split decision at WashU, men win
Photos courtesy of Pam Buzzetta/Student Life
First-year midfielder Lisa Pascoli (left) controls the ball with her feet, while first-year forward Andrew Park (right) uses his head.
by Daniel Goldman
Managing Editor
Crisp sunny weather greeted 
both of the Tartan soccer teams 
in St. Louis Sunday where they 
faced the Washington University 
Bears, but only the mens team 
would leave with a victory.
The mens team shut out the 
opposition 1-0 on a score by firstyear forward Jonathan Browne, 
with an assist by junior forward 
James Steidel.
As the close score indicates, 
the game ran close in almost all 
fashions: the Tartans had three 
saves to the Bears 5, and the 
teams each had seven shots and 
13 fouls.
Steidel and senior midfielder 
Mark Painter for Carnegie Mellon 
provided the offensive force, fir
ing three shots apiece, five of 
them on goal. Winning their first 
University Athletic Association 
(UAA) match of the season, the 
men move to 7-0-0. The Bears go 
to 4-2-2 on the season.
The womens game in which 
the Tartans lost 2-0 proved a bit 
more unbalanced. The Bears had
10 shots versus CMUs 6, and also 
committed about twice as many 
fouls as the Tartans, 15 to 8.
Sara Schroeder scored both 
goals for the Bears, unassisted in 
the eighth minute and assisted by 
a cross from Lindsey Ulkus in the 
final two minutes to beat the 
keeper. The Bears extended their 
undefeated streak to 10 games 
with this victory, bringing them 
to 8-1-2. The Tartans move to 
6-1-2.
The teams arrived in 
Pittsburgh late last night. The 
mens team could not be reached 
for comment. Head womens 
coach Heather Kendra declined 
to comment except to say she was 
disappointed.
The men play next, at home, 
on October 11 at 11 am against 
the University of Chicago. The 
women will play the same day at 
1:30 pm. Last year, the mens 
team beat Chicago at home, and 
the womens team tied.
Tale of two 
Games has 
sad ending
by Bary Dunn
Sports Editor
I dont know what happened, 
said nose guard Philip Clingman fol
lowing Carnegie Mellons 47-28 loss 
to Wesley College. Its safe to say that 
Clingman spoke on behalf of the 
entire team, as the Tartans had 
entered the locker room at halftime 
with a 21-7 lead.
We were really relaxed at halftime, said Clingman. We kept say
ing keep doing what were doing. 
Perhaps the Tartans did, in fact, 
continue to play the way they did in 
the first half. Wesley College, howev
er, did not.
The Wolverines made halftime 
adjustments that left the Tartans in 
awe, unable to recuperate until the 
fourth quarter, at which point it was 
too late.
It was a tale of two football 
games, said head coach Rich 
Lackner. The first two times 
[Wesley] had the ball in the second 
quarter they scored, and our first two 
possessions resulted in punts.
The second half was just embar
rassing, said Clingman. They were a 
completely different team, and we 
couldnt stop them.
The Tartans controlled the first 
half, rushing easily for 151 yards on
31 carries. It was not only the offense, 
though, that was responsible for the
21 points that the Tartans put on the 
board in the first half.
The CMU defense registered three 
interceptions that were returned for a 
total of 57 yards. That the Tartans 
were comfortable after thirty minutes 
of play is an understatement. 
Unfortunately, it all went downhill 
thereafter.
The Wolverines moved the ball 
downfield with ease in the second 
half against a Tartan defense that had 
held them to only seven points in the 
first half.
Wesley running back Omar 
Muhammad rushed for two consecu
tive touchdown runs of 63 and 53 
yards in the fourth quarter to extend 
Wesleys lead to 47-28.
Meanwhile, CMU was simply 
unable to get on the board. Their 
offense remained fairly consistent 
throughout the contest, but they just 
experienced much more difficulty 
scoring in the second half.
It was not until the fourth quarter, 
with 6:40 left in the game, that 
Tartan running back Ricardo Clarke, 
who gained 128 yards on the day, 
rushed for seven yards into the end 
zone.
Sometimes these things happen, 
and we have to learn from it, said 
Lackner. Itll be a challenge to come 
back and play well.
At the midpoint of the football sea
son, the Tartans stand at 3-2, facing a 
very difficult conference schedule. 
Fortunately the Tartans will be able to 
weather the Wesley loss during an off 
-week, and prepare for their next 
game against Case Western Reserve 
University on October 18 at Gesling 
Stadium.
Case has one of the best offenses 
in the country, said Clingman. They 
will determine our teams character.
The game against Wesley certain
ly leaves a bad taste in your mouth, 
said Lackner, but we have to correct 
mistakes, find shortcomings, and pre
pare for Case to the best of our abili
ty.
Muck cannot slow down CMU runners
by Andrew Johnson
Editor-in-Chief
It was a muddy, sloppy course that greeted the 
Carnegie Mellon cross country teams on their 
trip to Dickinson College in Carlisle, 
Pennsylvania  not at all like their home track in 
Schenley Park. The teams came looking for com
petition, though, after battling various injuries.
In a field of 260 men spanning forty universi
ties, it was the men of Carnegie Mellon who dom
inated the mens meet, with the women putting 
on a good showing themselves. The top four 
mens teams were close in score: CMU putting up 
20 points, followed by Allegheny College with 27, 
Widener University with 30, and Messiah College 
with 36. The home team led the next tier with 80 
points.
In the 8K race, Nick End and Dana Irrer, sopho
more mechanical engineering students, and 
Matthew Meurer, a senior in design, put up the 
scoring times for Carnegie Mellon. Meurer 
placed 5th overall with a time of 26:41.10, Irrer 
ran 26:44.16, and End brought up the winning 
rear with a 26:45.29. In a normal 5K race, 10thplace Mike Rossie, a graduate student in mechan
ical engineering, and 14th-place senior physics 
major Jared Markowitz would have contributed 
to the score, but this meet also had a shorter 6K 
race, so scoring was modified.
Despite being on unfamiliar terrain, the men 
put together a cohesive performance to take 
home the trophy. Irrer said no one ran spectacu
larly on the team, but the team as a whole per
formed very well, supporting each other.
It was a really muddy day, we were slipping all 
over the course, he said. The team will have a 
couple more meets before they get into the UAA 
and regional meets that hold the glory. Making 
the jump from regionals to nationals may prove 
difficult for the mens track team this season, in 
spite of their impressive showing in Dickinson. 
The team strove to clinch the third slot at last 
years'regional tournament but came up short.
Because only two teams [qualify this year], 
its going to be tough, said Irrer.
The women ran swiftly through the track of 
muddy baseball fields and woods, finishing 7th 
in a pack of 36 teams. And while the men were
Matt Meurer/Photo Staff
Female runners trek through deep puddles of mud toward the finish line this weekend in Carlisle.
running their traditional 8K distance, the CMU 
women were faced with a 6K race, as opposed to 
their customary 5K run.
The three scoring women for CMU were sopho
more psychology major Drea Garvue, placing 
15th with a time of 24:06.45; junior chemical 
engineering major Nicole Gartner, placing 26th 
with a time of 24:31.85; and sophomore mathe
matics major Jocelyn Sikora, placing 47th with a 
time of 25:25.96.
In another notable turn of events, though with 
a time less notable than the CMU frontrunners, 
junior chemical engineering major Jess Melanko
ran a 27:50.07, finishing the race after suffering 
an asthma attack in midstride.
For Garvue, there are many aspects that make 
cross-country running her sport.
Its really challenging and competitive, she 
said, but everyone on the team is really close.
 She said that the team is also a community in 
which they are all friends. Both the mens and 
womens teams will host their regional competi
tors at the Carnegie Mellon Invitational at 2 pm 
next Saturday, so do not be surprised to see 
hordes of collegiate runners booking it through 
the Schenley Hills.Bright future for young volleyball team
by Bary Dunn
Sports Editor
Head coach Julie Webb could not be more 
excited about her current group of girls, eight of 
whom are first-years.
Our freshmen are very hardworking, dedicat
ed young ladies, said Webb. Overall, theyre by 
far the most athletic group of girls Ive ever had.
The Tartans are currently ranked fourth in the 
league, with the top three teams nationally 
ranked, and the bottom four teams getting bet
ter and better, according to Webb.
This weekend, the Tartans played 10th ranked 
Emory, 15th ranked New York University, and 
unranked Chicago at a round robin on Friday and 
Saturday afternoon at Washington University in 
St. Louis.
The Tartans first lost 3-1 to Emory.
Were still very, very young, and we became 
hesitant and scared, said Webb.
However, a poor performance in their first 
match against Emory by no means set the tone 
for the weekend. After NYU took a 2-0 lead in the 
next match, the Tartans retaliated to win the next 
two games, before losing the match in the fifth 
game.
We have always been a group of fighters, and 
we will continue to do that. Other than the start 
against Emory, I have no complaints, said Webb, 
following their third match of the weekend 
against an injury-plagued Chicago, who the 
Tartans disposed of with a 3-0 score.
This years Tartans took a notch down from the 
team last year in age, but not in talent.
I have all the faith in the world that well get 
better, and be where we were  even next year, 
Webb said. Were just a bunch of fighters; we 
never give up.
Perhaps the biggest absence from last years 
team is Lauren Schmidt, now manager for the
Tartans, who was named one of the NCAA 
women of the year. Nonetheless, Webb has 
already found a replacement for Schmidt in firstyear outside hitter Catie Fisher, who she said is 
just as talented as Schmidt and, along with firstyear outside hitter Amanda Bradford, is very 
eager to improve.
An additional contributor to the success of the 
Tartans this season is sophomore middle hitter 
Chrissy Bartek. While registering 51 kills and a 
.340 hitting percentage in last weeks Lycoming 
Tournament, Bartek led the team to win the 
championship, and was named UAA athlete of 
the week. This weekend Bartek continued with 
another special performance.
She played very aggressively and confidently,
and she blocked better than she ever had before, 
said Webb. Shes only going to get better from 
here.
Despite the first-years outnumbering the 
upperclassmen, they highly respect what the vet
erans have accomplished in recent years.
They appreciate all of their talents, and 
theyve always gotten along really well, said 
Webb, Everyone is working hard, theyre all here 
for the same reason  to win.
In two weeks the Tartans will travel to 
Rochester to compete in the UAA round robin, 
which is indicative of where each team will seed 
in the UAA tournament on November 7 and 8. 
Last season, the Tartans placed fourth, losing 
their final match to NYU.
Carnegie Mellon
]W
AWAY
October 7 October 8 October 9 TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAYOctober 10 FRIDAYOctober 11 October 12 SATURDAY SUNDAYOctober 13 MONDAY
CROSSCOUNTRY
MEN'SSOCCER
WOMEN'SSOCCER
Altenghony 
invitational 
at Meadvife 
12:30 PM
r.........^HN.IMWIM.IW.I.IIM.IIMIM,
Westminster i 
Invitational 1 
at New Castle | 
12:00 PM 1
Carnegie Mellon 
Invitational 
2:00 PM)

P............... -
University 
of Chicago 
11:00 PM)
University 
of Chicago 
1:30 PM)
Jeremy Canceko/Art Staff
Football: 
Not All Black 
& White
lcrwp jcrrcEd
Rush Limbaugh has done it again, 
folks. With the baseball post-season 
in full swing (no pun intended), and 
the weekend of many returns coming 
up in the NFL, that damn fool hired 
by ESPN to offer the voice of the 
neo-conservative-fan on Sunday NFL 
Countdown has overshadowed all of 
it.
In case some of you missed it, last 
weekend, our dear friend Mr. 
Limbaugh attacked the career of NFL 
superstar Donavan McNabb as being 
overrated because the media wanted 
to see a black quarterback succeed.
Personal note: what the hell? Does 
Rush watch football? Or does he just 
toss his racial opinions around as if 
they were candy at a parade? 
McNabb has not only been a star, but 
unlike many stars, he has been a 
classy guy.
Not once has he made bad rap 
albums, gotten into legal troubles, 
caused any controversy on the field, 
or disrupted his locker room.
He has endured criticism from the 
second he was drafted instead of 
Ricky Williams; he has been a charis
matic leader, not to mention fun to 
watch. As much as I hate Philly, 
there is no denying that McNabb is 
one of the best in the business, and 
has been since he left Cuse.
Rushs statement, as ridiculous as 
it was, digs up one of the issues that 
was a theme throughout the off-season coaching carousel. This issue is 
that of race. It doesnt take a particu
larly observant person to notice the 
fact that most of the athletes in the 
NFL are African-American, while 
most of the coaches are white.
This difference in coaching has 
been viewed as a problem over the 
last couple of years, and as such the 
league office has initiated a type of 
affirmative action to ensure that 
black coaches receive just as fair of a 
chance when it comes to hiring as 
white coaches do. During the break 
this year, the NFL, to flex muscle on 
the new policy, slapped the Detroit 
Lions with a hefty fine after inter
viewing and hiring Steve Mariucci 
without talking to any black candi
dates.
This fine supports my opinion that 
affirmative action is crap; it always 
has been and always will be. While 
many people cry out against Detroit 
for interviewing one white candi
date, they fail to lambaste the 
Bengals for interviewing and subse
quently hiring one candidate who 
happened to be black, an incident 
that went unpunished by the league. 
The offense was the same, but went 
unnoticed because the league could 
now say black coaches do become 
head coaches, using Cincinnati as 
the proverbial case-and-point.
The age-old argument against 
affirmative action is that it takes jobs 
away from those who deserve it, and 
while this may be clich, it survives 
as an argument because it is true. It 
is evident in every position through
out the NFL. No one complains when 
Mike Vick is guaranteed a spot over 
Doug Johnson as the starting QB. 
Why? Because Vick is more than ten 
times the player Johnson is.
Steve Mariucci is ten times the 
coach of any black coaches I can 
think of, yet the league finds it nec
essary to insist inferior black coaches 
receive the same attention as white 
coaches, while inferior white players 
are written off as backups or cut 
early in training camp.
My point is not that white coaches 
are inherently better than black 
ones, nor that black athletes are 
inherently better than white ones.
My point is simply this: the issue of 
race is used to favor the minority 
group in only one category.
If the league were to enforce a rul
ing that white players had an equal 
chance of playing, and that each pre
season roster featured just as many 
whites as it did blacks, then I would 
not mind at all. But that is not the 
issue at hand. I argue that the best 
player is on the team, regardless of 
race; and similarly the best coach 
remains on the sideline, regardless of 
race.
As is the case in many social situa
tions the words regardless of race 
only apply when a minority domi
nates a position, when the white 
majority finds themselves holding 
most of the positions it has to be 
racism among the upper manage
ment.
In response to Limbaugh, the rev
erend Jesse Jackson stated, It is 
wrong to suggest that the hard work 
of black coaches and black quarter
backs are breaking in by the gratuity 
of the media. I couldnt agree more:
See COLIN, page All

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

STAFF
EDITOR.IN.CHIEF 
MANAGING EDITOR 
PILLBOX EDITOR 
COMICS EDITOR 
PHOTO EDITOR 
ART EDITOR 
COPY MANAGER 
PRODUCTION MANAGER
Andrew Johnson 
Daniel Goldman 
Celanie Polanick 
Neal Shyam 
Jeff CuIfers 
Bum Lee 
James Auwaerter 
Jim Puls
Cover by Bum Lee.
The Tartan
Box 1017
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15289
www.thetartan.org
CONTENTS.
THU RSD AYEWWN FIEfeEWla
Political portraiture.
6 a wu.EdD EonD't.EdDa
CMU activism is on the rise.
k h FEl wfis rD.tf ASgna
Iron Maiden and Sepultura.
m h RSD pEnnD'is fD..D'sa
Politics and personal feelings.
10 o AEs.D'fN eDdg.EgWa
ilboxPl ,6P ilboxPlS
11 o vts. l'DD.s yDs.a
prl itsbA6 at the Public.
12o ,gs. cW R'tWsft.EgWa
Love and loneliness on film.
15 a Comics.
The librarys graphical novels.
1c  Calendar.
Tbel hHE RPtN nPtAelo stuso arl rbgtaS
Jennifer Anttonen/Photo Staff
Pinch and pull:Sherri Wei, a first-year architecture major, makes 
dumplings for the Dumpling Party, hosted Friday 
night in New House by the organization 
Awareness of Roots in Chinese Culture (ARCC).
THEEARN O CB6RA,2 011.

---------------------------------------------------

Wobegone daze
Garrison Keillors urbane midwestern satire brings levity to town
Humorist Garrison Keillor came to speak at the Carnegie Music Hall last Monday night, kicking 
off this seasons Drue Heinz Lecture series. Keillor is an author, radio personality, and humorist. He 
has written thirteen books, including Leaving Home, We are Still Married, and Me: By Jimmy (Big 
Boy) Valenta, a parody of the life of Minnesota governor Jesse Ventura. He began broadcasting in 
1974 with a live variety show on Minnesota Public Radio and has been entertaining audiences ever 
since. Keillor is probably most famous for his stories about the fictional town of Lake Wobegon, MN. 
The sleepy little hamlet has been a source of sweet, funny anecdotes for decades.
Mondays lecture, however, contained no mention of Lake Wobegon. This time, Keillor focused on 
the process of writing and related some of his more humorous experiences as a writer. He spoke on 
his early and rather unlikely writing career as an advice columnist for The New Yorker. Not surpris
ingly, he also focused a great deal on his new book, Love Me.
The novel, a literary satire, is the story of Larry Wyler, a young writer from Minneapolis who suf
fers the curse of writers block after completing his first best-selling book. The protagonist bears a 
striking resemblance to Keillor himself, and the book is obviously partially autobiographical. Keillor 
spent much of the lecture separating the fiction from the nonfiction as he recounted the events of 
his past that ended up on the pages of Love Me. The subjects of these anecdotes ranged from square 
to raunchy as Keillor talked of hymnals, Lutherans, Swedish introspection, impotence, and Philip 
Roth. Keillor is a master of drawing humor out of angst. Invariably, his characters suffer from patho
logical guilt, fear of success, fear of failure, and fear 
of happiness. The more miserable they become, the 
more amused the audience becomes.
His humor is an odd mix of ribaldry and square, 
homespun conformity that can sometimes be offputting. In one long breath, he began speaking on 
the joys of sex and a good sirloin steak and ended up 
asking the audience to sing a hymn called Daniel in 
the Lions Den with him.
At the end of the show, he invited audience mem
bers to ask him questions. After the show, Keillor 
stood in the lobby for more than an hour signing 
autographs and making polite conversation.
Keillors weekly radio show, A Prairie Home 
Companion, airs Saturdays at 6 pm on WQED FM 
89.3. The Drue Heinz Lecture series will feature a 
new speaker every two weeks. Future lectures will 
include Scott Turow, James Patterson, and Barbara 
Ehrenreich. For more information, call 
412.622.8866.
qcrr qksOGdpV -adEuwanu
Marina Kliger//Assistant Art Editor
Corrections & clarifications
September 29  Almanac, attributed to staffwriter Evan Sundwick, was compiled by staffwriter Lauren Sauer.
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. To report a correction or clarification, please contact 
the Editor-in-Chief Andrew Johnson at 412.268.2111.
CARNEGIE ALMANAC.
JO YEARS AGO
October 6, 1953  Baron Elliot, probably the best-known Pittsburgh musical act of the time, was invited back to Carnegie Tech to be the feature band at the Homecoming dance. After completing 14 weeks at the Carlton Hotel in Washington D.C., Elliot played in the main gym on October 17 before he and his band returned to the Vogue Terrace and the William Penn hotel in Pittsburgh. Benny Benach, a Tech music graduate, also played  in the girls gym.
25 YEARS AGO
October 10, 1978  Rawleigh Warner Jr., chairman of Mobil Corporation, and Leonard Silk, an economic columnist at the 
New York Times, delivered their views on The Relationship Between Business and the News Media at Carnegie Mellon's 15th annual Benjamin F. Fairless Lectures, held on October 5. Warner, according to the article, asserted that the oil embargo crisis of 1973 and consequent energy problems were the results of the medias ignorance of business in general and the energy business in particular."
10 YEARS AGO
October 4, 1993  After nine months of planning, SafeWalk began making CMU's campus safer in 1993. SafeWalk was proposed the previous February in response to a rape in Schenley Park that January. The program began with 24 volunteers, working two shifts a night from 10 pm to 2 am.
5 YEARS AGO
October 5, 1998  The spring commencement was changed to include a separate doctoral hooding ceremony. Previously, the hooding ceremony involved having each recipient of a doctoral degree walk across stage and have their hood placed on them by a University official. The new ceremony was intended to shorten the main ceremony and make it more special for individual graduates.
1 YEAR AGO
October 7, 2002  The interdisciplinary Undergraduate Science Laboratories officially opened. The ribbon-cutting ceremony was held in the new MCS lecture hall, Doherty Hall 2302. University President Jared Cohon and other parties involved in the project spoke about the planning, construction, and future of the eight-story Doherty Hall lab complex.
rpnflv apnlfm ahpttSfihlf
THEEARN O CB6RA,2 011.

---------------------------------------------------

The skinny on free speech
The Skinny Building, one of the citys most unusual art galleries, responds to the Patriot Act with a portraiture exhibit
Its easy to miss the Skinny Building, a five-foot, twoinch wide art gallery that sits at the corner of Forbes 
Avenue and Wood Street in downtown Pittsburgh.
Patrons can only access the interior via a single spi
ral staircase that lies in the back of a T-shirt vendors 
shop on the first floor. This, however, is irrelevant 
because the actual art is displayed on the outside of 
the building. Works by local artists are put up in the 
windows of the building and are clearly visible from 
the street.
GroundZero, the local action network that is respon
sible for the renovation of the Skinny Building, has 
essentially turned a gallery inside out. Each month, 
the 24 windows of the building become a display case 
for the work of Pittsburgh artists.
The building is being cleaned and restored by local 
architect A1 Kovacik and GroundZero core member Pat 
Clark. Kovacik, who volunteers as the Skinny 
Buildings project manager, said that he thinks that 
projects like the Skinny Building are important to the 
future of the arts in Pittsburgh.
Its accessible to everybody. People who would not 
normally go into an established gallery and look up 
and see this work, he said. Kovacik also commented 
that he hoped that the area could someday be turned 
into a residential area, perhaps for young professionals 
and students. All of this [area] is an appalling misuse 
of the available space. It should be available for people 
who go to school here and think about sticking 
around.
The current exhibit, Free Speech Denied, champi
ons the work of ten outstanding 20th-century individ
uals who were denied their right to free speech. 
Specifically, it is a response to the Patriot Act. The 
Patriot Act, signed by President Bush in 2001, granted 
increased power to domestic law enforcement and sur
veillance.
Although some contend that the Act was meant as a 
response to terrorism, others say it threatens the pri
vacy of ordinary American citizens. Local artists have 
responded by exercising their own freedom of artistic 
expression.
The exhibit includes portraits of Malcolm X, John 
Lennon, Mary Mother Jones, Lenny Bruce, and Dixie 
Chicks singer Natalie Maines. The portraits are simple, 
with clean lines and bold colors. The renderings of 
Bruce and Maines, in particular, have a distinctive pop 
art feeling.
The portrait of Martin Luther King, Jr., is a handpainted poster done in simple black and white. The 
work that might really grab the attention of viewers, 
however, is the exhibits tide poster created by local 
syndicated cartoonist Gary Huck and poster artist 
Mike Konopacki. The banner features an airplane fly
ing into an abstract rectangular solid with The Bill of 
Rights, printed across it.
Anyone who might have a bone to pick with this 
exhibit has the option of making their own statement 
at the Skinny Building. The gallery is open to local 
artists, free of charge.
Anthony D'Auria/Photo Staff
Under its art gallery, the Skinny Building houses a con
venience store and several other storefronts.
Carnegie Mellon junior Jennifer Murray is currendy 
working on the preliminary stages of an art project at 
the Skinny Building.
I think [the gallery] is really conducive to the art. 
Its like a photo gallery, Malone said. Although she 
has not developed a concrete project at this point, her 
idea involves draping the gallery in a giant burqa. 
According to Clark, at the Skinny Building, not only is 
this sort of exhibit possible, it is encouraged.
Free Speech Denied will be running from 
September 14 to October 14 at the corner of Forbes 
Avenue and Wood Street downtown.
For those interested in the topic of free speech, Free 
Speech Denied coincides with a local exhibition of 
Patriot Art by cartoonists critical of the current state 
of civil liberties. The exhibit will be showing at the 
Tindale Building at 393 8th Avenue in Homestead 
beginning October 3. Admission is free.
For more information or to propose an idea, e-mail 
them at ideas@skinnybuilding.com
qcrr qksOGdpV -adEuwanu4THEEARN O CB6RA,2 011.

---------------------------------------------------

A is for Aperture
Local artists and educators give viewers
A is for Aperture, the newest exhibit at the Silver 
Eye Center for Photography, showcases the works of 
eight area artists who also teach.
The Silver Eye Center for Photography is a non-prof
it organization that was created in 1985 by the fusion 
of the Blatant Image Gallery and Silver Eye 
Photographic Workshop. The Silver Eye Center is the 
oldest organization in western Pennsylvania entirely 
committed to the appreciation and understanding of 
photography as a form of art and a medium of com
munication.
Inside, the renovated galleries completely seduce 
visitors and the white-walled gallery presents the 
photographs with full force.
The eight artists  Karen Antonelli, Charlee 
Brodsky, Angeliki Georgiou, Richard Hurst, Karen 
Kaighin, Jen Saffron, Richard Stoner, and Kaoru 
Tohara  each display a very different opinion about 
the use of photography as a means of expression, 
which was the main goal of the guest curator Susan 
Abramson.
The show is a survey of photography educators in 
the area. Its a sample, not a full exhibit, she said.
As head of the photography department at 
Pittsburgh Filmmakers, Abramson has become very 
familiar with the work of regional artists.
I chose eight artists whose work I have followed. 
Some have a large exhibition record while some of the 
artists have not yet been exposed, she said. I wanted 
a mix of the under-recognized along with the wellrecognized so that the talent in the region can be 
showcased as a whole. Another driving force was that 
I wanted as many schools as possible represented.
Courtesy of Silver Eye Center for Photography
Brodsky asked girls about their favorite facial feature.
a lesson in attention to detail
There is dynamic work being done by photography 
educators in Pittsburgh. This exhibit clearly shows a 
mix of contemporary styles along with more tradi
tional ideas, showing that a diverse style of art exists 
within this region.
Richard Hurst is a prime example of the diversity 
achieved through this exhibit. His photography docu
ments the Department of Mammals at the Carnegie 
Museum of Natural History. His use of photography 
greatly differs from the other techniques displayed in 
the exhibit. Unlike most other art, the photograph 
appeals to the viewer more from a distance; upon 
closer examination, the viewer is repulsed by the 
explicit content of the images in the photo.
What I enjoy in photography and what I try to put 
across most in the photographs is that the viewers are 
drawn into the image because of the color and tonali
ty of the photograph but are then bounced back out 
because their sense of unease of the image, he said. 
For example, in my photographs the dead mammals 
in crates and jars create that sense of unease . I am not 
documenting the section of mammals at the Carnegie 
Museum of natural history. I am the artist and I am 
using the mammals as a palette. I am documenting 
[the mammals] from my own personal perspectives.
Charlee Brodsky, a professor in the School of Design 
at Carnegie Mellon, is also featured as an artist with
in this exhibit. Her artwork focuses on the self-reflection of a Girl Scout troop. Each photograph is taken of 
what is deemed to be the Girl Scouts favorite feature 
of her face or head. This type of artwork reflects upon 
the images and criteria enforced upon even the 
youngest females within society. Each photograph is 
accompanied by a hand-written letter from the girl 
stating why the particular feature that she chose is her 
favorite.
In all of my artwork the subjects voice can give you 
more of an idea of the entire image. This body of work 
of is my daughters Girl Scout troop, she said. I had 
worked with the girls before and I decided it would be 
fun to do something photographic with them.
Angeliki Georgiou also documents a womans plight 
through her photography. Georgiou is an adjunct 
assistant professor at Pittsburgh Filmmakers, and has 
had her work exhibited regionally in public and pri
vate collections. Her images depict women and fami
lies in situations relating to either religion or cultural 
heritage. Georgious two strong, black and white pho
tographs describe cultural life in Greece. One image 
of a woman dressed in forma] wear at a church is bro
ken into fragments, representing the turmoil that 
each woman must face within society in Greece. Each 
artists use of the medium represents a different kind 
of communication possible through photography. A is 
for Aperture educates viewers by asking them to 
examine each image and each idea separately and 
carefully.
FdaGnuwpn HGcozOcpV 
e.pwcu -adEuwanu
MnUwnEy 
"A is cu sznua.unL
-wrUnu tn lnpanu cu (GcacJudzG 
-c.aG -wfn 
HGuc.JG /kacTnu KW
The Silver Eye Center has the appearance of 
any other store front along Carson Street, but 
rather than goods or services, its interior holds 
imaginative work. The various types of photog
raphy reflect the artists' differing experiences 
and perspectives, enforcing some facet of the 
artists personality, whether that be heritage or 
the artists view on societal roles. Jen Stoners 
photographs of lower-class Jamaica mixed 
with scenic postcards are a reminder that there 
exists a world that can hardly be deemed per
fect. Her photographs present the idea that the 
world cannot be viewed as though it were a 
postcard, and that different cultures play dif
ferent roles within society. The mixture of 
color and black and white is visually entertain
ing. The different tones and colors spread 
throughout the gallery keep the observer con
stantly entertained. The images may be varied, 
but some of the themes are universal. Richard 
Stoners photographs of the local environment 
are seductively beautiful and remind the view
er that nature should be appreciated and 
enjoyed. Stoners photographs, taken in 
Keystone State Park near Latrobe, are simple 
landscapes of trees and forests that could be 
found anyplace in western Pennsylvania.
Karen Kaighins work also plays of the idea of 
perspective. Her photos mostly deal with the 
human body and normal everyday routines. 
However, because the photos are laid one on 
top of each other it is hard to distinguish what 
is actually happening within the art, thus alter
ing the viewers perspective.
Along the same lines is Karen Antonellis work. 
Antonelli uses the human body as her land
scape, taking everyday features of the body 
and enlarging or focusing on one specific 
image until it is unclear of what the photo
graph really is. All that can be perceived is that 
the photo is of a human body part, leaving the 
rest of the interpretation to the viewer. Kaoru 
Tohara takes photography from its traditional 
form into sculptures, one of which consists of 
photographs taken of body parts the he has 
sculpted with fiberglass. In another work, pho
tographs of hands were placed into a planter, 
with the hands reaching out in different direc
tions, making the photographs more real and 
tangible.
FdaGnuwpn HGcozOcpV 
e.pwcu -adEuwanu
THEEARN O CB6RA,2 011.

---------------------------------------------------

From Apathy to Action
Carnegie Mellons activist community is evolving
= *
File Photo
An estimated 100 CMU students joined about 5000 local and regional protesters outside CMUs Software 
Engineering Institute on a frigid day in January 2003 for the citys largest peace protest since the Vietnam era.
Across a variety of causes and ideologies, new cam
pus organizations have been popping up everywhere. 
Inspired by political turmoil and dissatisfaction with 
everyday conditions, CMU students have put the 
schools infamous reputation of apathy in serious jeop
ardy.
The Princeton Review deemed Carnegie Mellon the 
most apathetic school in the country in its 2001 rank
ings. Two years later, the organizations The Best 351 
Colleges notes an exception to this apathy: There is a 
large minority of very left-wing, extremely active stu
dents who are responsible for most of what occurs on 
campus.
The Princeton Review bases its college descriptions 
and rankings on surveys of student opinion. Any senti
ments about being apathetic, or ceasing to be so, are 
mere reflections of constantly changing student views 
at CMU.
The wide array of new activist groups and accom
plishments are not exclusively found on either side of 
the political spectrum. They range from officially rec
ognized non-funded groups to unofficial, ad hoc coali
tions. Students are even taking action outside the typ
ical boundaries of politics and activism.
The 2000-01 school year was the turning point for 
strong leftist activism. In that year, the Progressive 
Student Alliance (PSA) and People for Workers Rights 
/ United Students Against Sweatshops (PWR/USAS) 
both formed. CMU also established a code of conduct 
to end ties to sweatshop labor for its apparel, a major 
victory for the latter organization.
There has definitely been a major, sudden increase 
in the amount of campus activism at CMU in the past 
few years, and it has gotten way more radical, said 
Rob Cullen, a 2002 graduate and the former vice pres
ident of Amnesty International.
With new organizations brewing on the left in 2001, 
the old base known as the Student Activist 
Headquarters was phased out in favor of stronger 
bonds.
The leftist coalition Crowded Fire was intended to 
unite the activist forces of PSA, PWR/USAS, EARTH, 
SoHo, Amnesty International, and the Womens 
Center. Its only planned event, slated for September
11, 2001, was never rescheduled.
Crowded Fire sought to strengthen the already 
growing activism at CMU, and the political climate fol
lowing 9/11 provided the perfect opportunity to do so.
There was a need to bring together the activist com
munity, said Mark Egerman, a senior in history, com
puter science, and EPP who helped organize Crowded 
Fire. Crowded Fire itself failed, but the idea of activist 
unity bloomed.
Students for Peaceful Action, the successor to both 
Crowded Fire and the former Student Activist 
Headquarters, grew in the wake of 9/11. In the days, 
weeks, and months that followed, Students for 
Peaceful Action coordinated rallies, vigils, and a char
itable model refugee camp on the Cut. Some of these 
events were on-campus, like a large peace rally six 
days after 9/11. Others were city-wide demonstrations
Vanessa Shyu/Art Staff
that attracted many CMU students.
What we wanted is exactly whats happening  
people working together in a decentralized way to pro
mote peace and justice, said Quinten Steenhuis, a 
senior philosophy major and one of the chief founders 
and leaders of PSA, regarding the activism following 
9/11.
Current events have been largely responsible for cat
alyzing the recent surge in political activism. 
Frequently, major issues generate conflicting respons
es from across the activist spectrum.
The war in Iraq last semester provoked activism by 
the millions across the world, and CMUs campus was 
no exception. An ad hoc coalition of student activists 
formed under the name CMU Peace to protest the war 
in Iraq. The group attracted dozens of CMU students to 
city-wide demonstrations, and also tabled and staged 
a die-in on campus.
Supporters of the Iraq war also expressed their 
views publicly. A spontaneous support-our-troops rally 
was held at Delta Upsilon days before the Iraq war 
began. The event was thrown together as hundreds of 
anti-war protesters, including about 60 CMU students, 
marched through campus.
The demonstration was mostly a parody on the 
ridiculousness of the skewed nature of many of the 
peace arguments, said organizer Ben Hackett, a soph
omore social and decision sciences major. This rally 
sparked interest in For America Now, a group which 
now plans to publish Right Justified, a conservative 
newspaper.
Also during the week that war broke out, College 
Republicans held a pro-troops rally in the center of 
campus. Nicole Saulnier, chairwoman of College 
Republicans and a junior ECE major, said that she does 
not tune out the progressive activism. Instead, she has 
become motivated to respond to it with such events as 
the pro-America rally. The College Republicans have 
seen its membership increase drastically this year.
Amid a period of escalated violence in Israel, Young 
Zionists of America (YZOA) formed a year ago. The 
group serves as a means to express support for Israels 
rights to exist and defend itself.
Were not out to offend anyone, but were also not 
out to not offend anyone, said Jacques Katz, president 
of YZOA and a doctoral student in psychology, of the 
groups pro-Israel stances. He welcomes responsible 
polemics, but warns that much opposition is usually 
anti-Israeli sentiment which he refuses to placate.
Last month, Students for a Free Palestine banded 
together to promote pro-Palestine activism. Students 
for a Free Palestine is a splinter group of PSA that 
unites activists concerned about this specific issue. 
The group painted the Fence to commemorate the 
Sabra and Shatila massacres of Palestinians. Several of 
the other groups, including YZOA and College 
Republicans, have also used the Fence as a forum.
THEEARN O CB6RA,2 011.

---------------------------------------------------

?
Electoral politics within U.S. borders are also an oldfavorite to generate political support. Students for 
Dean, which supports Democratic primary presiden
tial candidate Howard Dean, became an officially rec
ognized student group last month. While political 
groups, particularly those who support specific candi
dates, are not eligible for University funding, official 
status allocates a web site, e-mail address, mailbox, 
and meeting space.
What has gotten people into Dean is frustration 
with Bush, said founding president Dave Young, a 
junior in design. Young identifies disappointment with 
the Bush administration as the major reason that so 
many candidates and Americans are eager to defeat 
Bush in the 2004 election.
The College Republicans are also mobilizing for 
elections, specifically the local ones next month. They 
have actively been promoting Republican candidates 
for Allegheny County Executive and the Pennsylvania 
Supreme Court.
Although concerned with political issues, the new 
American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) chapter at 
CMU is not affiliated with either side of the political 
spectrum. The ACLU is a national organization that 
formed in 1920 and is committed to protecting First 
Amendment rights.
We dont specify who well serve ... whether its 
anti-war marchers or pro-war marchers, or anybody in 
between, said Chris Messina. Were on everybodys 
side.
ical causes necessarily, but have a comparable driving 
spirit to the political activists to improve general con
ditions.
One improvement for students is the new AB Green 
Bike program. The Activities Board last month estab
lished this opportunity for students and faculty to bor
row free bicycles for 48-hour intervals.
Breaking down traditional barriers, students are tak
ing matters into their own hands. Student College 
began a year ago as a way for students to teach their 
own classes and promote the topics they deem impor
tant.
[Student College is] an avenue for anyone who is 
thoughtful and interested to build the academic com
munity, said Rachel Dougnac, a junior statistics and 
English major, who is currently teaching her third 
Student College course. That in itself is the founda
tion of activism: the development of community, an 
avenue for the exchange of ideas.
This is the first semester, as well, for the new 
Housing Co-op. The cooperative living arrangement 
promotes a foundation of environmental sustainabili
ty, democracy, and respect for gender, race, and sexu
al orientation. While the Co-op is not inherently polit
ical, it partially serves as a base for activism and relat
ed lifestyles. A more political climate is generally wel
come among activists of disparate causes. With largescale politics and everyday social causes as impetuses, 
CMU students have taken a giant leap to become so 
active.
Messina, a fifth-year senior in design, is one of sev
eral students founding the CMU incarnation who has 
worked for the ACLUs Greater Pittsburgh Chapter.
Id like to share it with other students here, added 
fifth-year BHA student Lori Schomp of her positive 
experience as an intern at the ACLU.
Messina and Schomp are not alone in bringing 
activism from the city to the campus. Many students 
have become involved in city-wide groups. Students 
for Den was also a city-wide group, which was co
founded by Young and a University of Pittsburgh stu
dent and brought down to the campus level. Popular 
Pittsburgh activist organizations among CMU stu
dents include the Thomas Merton Center, a peace and 
social justice center, and the Pittsburgh Independent 
Media Center, an independent news source.
Established social movements like feminism, envi
ronmentalism, and animal rights are expanding past 
their original structures. Although like-minded with 
the Womens Center, Voices for Animal Liberation, 
and EARTH, the new groups have different focuses. 
Distinct plans are currently underway for groups pro
moting feminist direct action and vegan/vegetarian 
diets.
Sustainable Students promotes environmental con
sciousness on campus. Their campaigns include 
efforts to get Housing and Dining Services to use more 
environmentally-friendly materials and to implement 
the Living Roof project. The latter endeavor will 
include bird, butterfly, and vegetable gardens and 
rainwater recycling.
Students are also taking action to improve the qual
ity of life at CMU. These groups do not promote polit
Carnegie Mellon is quickly transforming itself into 
a place where students can come, get involved with a 
multitude of political and non-political organizations, 
and really make a difference, said Egerman.
?HB:<,E L2RE<i*k 
,iHR2 6<VV2H6,2
Editors Note: The writer is a member of Voices for 
Animal Liberation and was active in CMU Peace. Ben 
Hackett is a staffwriter for The Tartan. Chris Messina 
was a staffwriter for The Tartan.
File Photo
This parody of a peace protest in March 2003 led rightwing students to form For America Now the next day.
CMU ACTIVISM: A BRIEF HISTORY
The emergence of activism at CMU might have 
caught many by surprise, but there have been 
other big times for activism. Here are some of 
those highlights, starting when our tech-school 
became a multifaceted university in 1967.
t,
1969  The Black Construction Coalition 
(BCC) sought to increase the presence of 
African-Americans in the construction trade 
throughout Pittsburgh. The construction of 
Wean Hall was temporarily stopped, and 
approximately 1000 CMU students, faculty, and 
construction workers assembled in mass protest 
in solidarity with the BCC.  Apathetic was the 
word most frequently used to describe CMU in 
past years... That is no longer the appropriate 
[word], wrote The Tartan on September 26, 
1969.
1985  CMUs Software Engineering Institute
File Photo
In 1971, one of many student Vietnam protests.
signed a weapons contract with the U.S. 
Department of Defense (DoD). Soon after
wards, community activists and Carnegie 
Mellon students started protesting the 
Universitys affiliation with the DoD, and have 
continued doing so to this day.
1986-1999  A progressive CMU newspaper, 
The Student Union, circulated and often pro
voked controversy. Its closest counter-part on 
the right was The Phoenix, a joint CMU-Pitt con
servative publication throughout most of the 
90s. The two newspapers had a scuffle in 1997, 
after The Student Union criticized Mother 
Teresas allegedly radical pro-life positions.
1994  CMU student Marty Rimm published an 
inaccurate study about the prevalence of 
pornography on the Internet. The U.S. Senate 
used the study to help pass the Communications 
Decency Act, a law of censorship. More than a 
dozen Usenet groups were blocked on the CMU 
network because of fears of pornography. Led 
by Student Body President Declan McCullagh, 
students rallied against cyber-censorship.
qwkGdnr lucrdpfV -npwcu -adEuwanu
THEEARN O CB6RA,2 011.7

---------------------------------------------------

tap?Summer metal gets another listen
Metallicas first album of new material in six years
It has been six years since Metallica 
released an album of original materi
al. Since then, they have endured a 
legal struggle with Napster, their fans 
have accused them of selling out, their 
bass player of 14 years has quit, and 
their front man, James Hetfield, went 
into rehab for nine months.
After all that, Metallica returned 
and entered the studio with producer 
Bob Rock on bass to record St. Anger, 
an 11-track disc with a DVD of a live 
studio performance of the album and 
login information for the Metallica 
Vault, an online database of free mp3s 
of various Metallica songs.
St. Angers sound is raw and heavy, 
produced to sounds like a band jam
ming in their garage. The drum clangs 
roughly, the guitars sound natural, 
and the vocals arent always on key. 
Metallicas trademark guitar solos are 
absent on the album.
With no leads, most of the songs are 
driven by strong rhythm and very fast 
double-kick drums. The drastic tempo 
changes in almost every track come 
out smoothly thanks to Metallicas 20 
years of experience. The lyrics on the 
album are somewhat repetitive, with 
many exclamations that capture the 
rage of the band. Frantic, St. 
Anger, Dirty Window, The 
Unnamed Feeling, and All Within 
My Hands are the strongest tracks 
because their compositions are the 
most complex.
The tide track deserves particular 
mention; it embodies all the emotion 
and muscle that the album stands for. 
My World and Purify are the 
weakest tracks on the album; the 
lyrics are just too simple and redun
dant to create a forceful enough 
sound. St. Anger is a successful album 
to an extent. It is the heavy and 
rugged album that Metallica fans 
were clamoring for, though there is 
enough experimentation that it is not 
complete return to their thrash sound.
After the release of St. Anger, 
Metallica embarked on their world 
tour. They welcomed former Ozzy 
Osbourne bassist Rob Trujillo as their
full-time four-stringer and brought 
with them an all-star opening line-up: 
Mudvayne, Deftones, Linkin Park, and 
Limp Bizkit. The location in 
Columbus, Ohio was the closest stop 
to the Pittsburgh area.
The crowd was huge and rowdy, 
excited to see Metallica for the first 
time in three years. Mudvayne and 
Deftones showed their lack of stadi
um-sized show experience; their 
sound did not carry well, and their 
stage presence was mediocre. Linkin 
Park, though, did an excellent job 
interacting with the crowd and played 
an hours worth of their hip-hop influ
enced hard rock. Limp Bizkit proved 
why they are one of the best-selling 
hard rock acts. Fred Dursts charisma 
and stage presence was the focal point 
of their show. Their pyrotechnics and 
energy fired the crowd up with a cover 
of Metallicas classic Welcome Home 
(Sanitarium).
Metallica opened up with Battery. 
It was obvious that Metallica was on 
stage to win back old fans as they 
played song after song from early 
albums. Master of Puppets, 
Blackened, No Remorse, 
Creeping Death, One, and For 
Whom the Bell Tolls were just some 
of the classics that the band included 
in the two-hour set. Only St. Anger 
and Frantic were played from their 
new album, and only Fuel was 
included from the Load/ReLoad era;
After two encores and a pyrotechnic 
and fireworks display Metallica 
looked younger, stronger, and heavier 
than they have been in the past ten 
years. Rob Trujillo looked comfort
able and excited to be part of the 
band, and James Hetfield seemed 
pleased with the current state of 
Metallica.
The Summer Sanitarium tour 
accomplished Metallicas goal to 
reunify, reinvigorate, and remind 
their fans why they are the biggest 
heavy metal band in the world.
I2H,E r2HRk -'iHR2 6<VV2H6,2
Big Als Metal Shop
Iron Maiden, Blood Brothers Sepultura, Roorback
Courtesy of Sepultura
After spending the better part of the 
90s slinging mud at each other, Bruce 
Dickinson and Iron Maiden made up 
and turned their focus towards the rest 
of us. In the wake of that joyous occa
sion came Brave New World  a tri
umphant return, no doubt, yet slightly 
mellower than Maidenites had come to 
expect. Beautiful compositions like 
Blood Brothers make up the back
bone of the album. What we didnt 
know at the time, however, was that 
this was only the beginning of their 
return to the throne.
While Brave New World is content to 
show off (Steve) Harris and companys 
matured songwriting and Kevin 
Shirleys production skills, Dance of 
Death screams like a bat outta hell into 
your soul. Bruce wails like a possessed 
preacher on Montsegur and No More 
Lies, infuses Gates of Tomorrow with 
a killer melodic vocal hook, and returns 
to the classic Maiden sound in New 
Frontier, which, by the way, drummer 
Nicko McBrain co-wrote.
Face in the Sand and Age Of 
Innocence are epic tunes that would 
have easily fit in on Brave New World, 
but balance the bombast of this album. 
But, if you only listen to two songs 
(beside the first single Wildest 
Dreams), then I have to say that 
Paschendale and the closer 
Journeyman are the highlights of an 
already stellar album.
And that quality is a mixture of soul 
and sincerity. Music that needs no gim
mick or promotion. Music that adds to 
your personal well-being. Tunes that 
get you going in the morning. 
Paschendale starts out with a poem 
written for a dying soldier in a barren 
field, then explodes... and then hushes 
itself. Almost in respect for the music 
itself, Iron Maiden plays as if they are 
merely conduits for this song to be 
revealed to the rest of the world. 
Journeyman is just beautiful, deli
cate, and vulnerable, and the perfect 
lullaby after the catharisis that is 
Dance of Death.
1995-96 was an amazing year in 
Metal. Pantera put out the landmark 
Great Southern Trendkill, only to be 
matched by Sepultura with the genreinventing Roots.
Returning to their native Brazil to 
record, Sepultura fused
world/latin/tribal music with Metal to 
forge an album that would lay the foun
dation for the System of A Downs of 
today. Going so far as to record with the 
Xavantes tribe in the Amazon jungle, 
Sepultura made us rethink all of our 
notions of what heavy music was. In 
fact, they just reminded us of its primitve roots.
Unfortunately, Roots would serve 
as Max Cavaleras (vox) farewell to the 
Sepulnation. Faced with the choice of 
disbanding or reinvention, Sepultura 
chose the latter.
Selecting Derrick Greene as 
Cavaleras replacement, the boys from 
Brazil released the decent Against in 
98. Some decent moments were to be 
found, especially the addition of Kodo 
drummers as backup, but overall this 
was a hastily put together statement 
that Sepultura was still in existence.
The follow-up, 2001s Nation, was a 
solid step forward. Greenes vocals 
were more assured, the guitars were 
heavy as could be, and the groove we 
found in Roots returned, albeit with 
more subtlety.
Now, in 2003, after a lengthy label 
search, Sepultura have released their 
eagerly awaited newest album, 
Roorback. And I must say, it is a bit lack
ing. Steve Evetts, known for his work 
with metal-core bands and producer of 
Nation, creates a sterile environment 
for Sepultura to work in.
But this alone would not constrain 
great bands like Sepultura. In essence, 
a lack of anything new is what pervades 
this collection of songs.
IEA,26 LR:,ik ,iHR2 6<VV2H6,2

THEEARN O CB6RA,2 011.

---------------------------------------------------

Reagan, in his own words
1100 letters from an available 5000 by one of Americas most prolific presidents
He described his realization of Christ's power in his teens as being born 
again. When asked about his faith and how it related to the way hed govern as 
President, he wrote, ... If the task I see should be given me I would pray only that
I could perform it in a way that would serve God.
Reagan is also shown to be as kind-hearted in his private life as in his public life. 
While he would get very upset at attacks, personal or political, he rarely responded 
to them with attacks of his own. For example, a woman from New York wrote to 
him saying that his supply-side economics (which say that decreases in government 
spending and lower taxes lead to economic growth) could kill the poor and elder
ly, and that their deaths might be his goal.
His response began by thanking her for providing a return address, then stated 
Incidentally, forgive me for being so late in answering. The letter continued to 
explain his reasons for his economic policies, while ignoring the inflammatory 
nature of the womans original letter.
The book exposes todays college-age students to events that happened before 
they were born and when they were growing up. Beyond that, it helps explain how 
todays political landscape came to be.
Reagans legacy to the party extends beyond the cohesiveness which has endured 
to this day. From school choice to welfare reform to foreign policy on Israel, 
Reagans principles of a federal government which provides for the safety of its cit
izens while not taking on unnecessary duties have been reflected in every subse
quent Republican presidency and Congress.
This book should appeal to politically active people on both sides of the spec
trum. Conservatives can take advantage of other peoples correspondences with 
Reagan to enjoy a more personal look at one of their icons. Liberals can read it to 
try to understand where conservatives are coming from to rebut their arguments 
from a less visceral level. Even those who are not political can enjoy one of the most 
unique and complete perspectives on the major events of the 1970s and 1980s.
edonO s.EdnuanuV lcz qdpdJnu
Courtesy of Simon & Schuster
Reagan wasnt as dumb as you probably think. CMU professor Kiron Skinners 
new book, Reagan: A Life in Letters, makes that point in an uncommonly powerful 
wayby selecting 1100 of his letters from over 5000 available. The letters span 72 
years, and cover matters political and personal.
The book is organized by topic rather than chronology, though the first two top
ics are Reagans youth and his college experiences. These provide an introduction 
to some of the reasons Reagan grew to hold his conservative beliefs, then groups 
the beliefs. While there is a topical index in the back for even greater detail, it's 
much easier to get a complete picture of his opinions without flipping through the 
whole book.
And the book is complete. Every facet of Reagan  his personality, family, and 
politics  is covered comprehensively. The book lays out his political positions 
firmly and clearly in letters to all sorts of people, including his personal friends, 
politicians, and ordinary Americans.
His personal convictions are also showcased. Reagan's belief in civil rights was 
present from-an early age, and he writes how thankful he is for [my] mother and 
father who instilled in me and my brother a hatred for bigotry and prejudice long 
before there was such a thing as a civil rights movement.
One particularly telling moment about his belief in racial equality is detailed in 
his memoirs. He remembered a meeting with black leaders of the San Francisco 
area. They asked why he didnt advertise the fact that he hired more black execu
tives than all other California governors combined. He said that it would be cheap 
politics to brag about that as though their race was their main qualification. He 
then wrote, With that, the whole atmosphere changed. They ... thought I had 
been quiet [for fear of offending] my more conservative white supporters.
His letters also make clear his faith in God, and his belief that God had chosen 
America to be a favored nation. Reagan was a member of the church of the 
Disciples of Christ, which did not believe in the baptism of infants, preferring that 
decision to be made by the individual later in life.
Reagan ran against the sitting President Gerald Ford in 1976 for the Republican 
presidential nomination. When Reagan lost, he threw his support behind Ford 
whole-heartedly, and sent over a million fundraising solicitations. Though his sup
porters urged him to be a third-party candidate, he refused, preferring that the 
Republicans have the best chance of winning the election. The Republican Party 
today is perceived to be a monolith, for good or bad. That solidarity is due in large 
part to Reagans action in this and other, similar matters.
THEEARN O CB6RA,2 011.

---------------------------------------------------

A price beyond rubies
The School of Dramas production of Shakespeares Measure for Measure clumsily weighs honor against survival
Scholars call Measure for Measure one of 
Shakespeares problem plays as it mixes comedy and 
tragedy. He wrote it around 1603, just before moving 
on to his great tragedies, though the chronology of 
Shakespeares plays should be taken with a grain of 
salt, as the biblically fond poet himself might have put 
it. This haberdashery of comedy and tragedy came just 
before greats like Macbeth and King Lear. It is perhaps 
these problem plays that truly test a productions 
interpretation After nine months of planning,
The play begins as the Duke Vincentio (senior Alex 
Cendese), prepares to leave Vienna, while he bestows 
his title on his retainer Angelo, played by fifth-year 
senior J.D. Goldblatt. Vincentio, though, rather than 
go away, haunts the city in the guise of a friar. 
Meanwhile, the newly-anointed Angelo, condemns a 
young citizen named Claudio (senior Saaron Staton) 
to death for impregnating his lover Juliet (senior 
Megan Hilty). Claudio implores his friend Lucio (sen
ior Seth Fisher), en route to jail, to go to his chaste sis
ter Isabella (senior Erin Bridges) at the convent where 
she is a novice nun, and beseech her to plead with 
Angelo for his life.
Isabella badgers and reasons with Angelo, until at 
last it seems she will have no sway over the resolute 
man. When all seems lost, he grants her another audi
ence the next morning, giving her brother at least a 
few hours to live. When she returns anon, the smitten 
Angelo offers to trade her brothers life for her virgini
ty. Things being the way they were back then, this lit
tle offer is met with her derision. So off she goes to jail 
to warn her brother of his impending fate, cursing him 
when he implores her to trade her nectar for his life.
The duke, disguised as Friar Lodowick, is positioned 
to overhear the siblings' spat, and speaks with 
Isabella. With her, he plots to substitute Marianna, 
once stingy Angelos betrothed save for a lost dowry, 
in Isabellas place, thus earning her brother a pardon, 
saving her virtue, and exposing Angelos misdeed. But 
Angelo denies the pardon despite the sex. The duke 
then asks the provost to send a different head for 
Angelos viewing, so that he can unravel the intrigue 
in princely fashion. The plan goes off without a hitch, 
and the duke reveals all at the palace gates, sentencing 
Angelo to marriage, then death, then just marriage, 
Lucio to marry a woman who he had impregnated 
then scorned, and for himself, he wants the fair 
Isabella.
Director Martha Henry and her crew made the show 
come off cleverly, keeping the audience immersed in 
the Shakespearean world. With a dash less glitter, the 
show would have been truly commendable.
The production confused the eyes, not the mind, 
with costuming that was a cross between 20th-centu
ry America, period authenticity, and 80s night at Club 
Laga. The costumers might have pulled it off had the 
apparel been less muddled and more obviously 
demarcating some faction of characters. No doubt the 
rogues and whores like Lucio and Mistress Overdone 
(senior Pilar Millhollen) stood out from the rest in 
their shiny vest, tutus, and bawdy orange straps, but 
the message is cluttered by a bit of glitz even in 
Isabellas mm habit. Elbow the constables (senior 
Ryan Young) lack of wit showed up in primp and shine 
surely as did the whores failing morals. We are left 
confused if we do not accept that it was the designers 
whose vision was muddled, and not our own.
Perhaps it is fitting that Vincentios ducal outfit 
seems so unfitting, though he cuts his friars robe fine
ly. It is not until the Dukes transformation to the cloth 
that the play really begins to pick up, as the Duke 
never really seems a duke at all. One could argue that 
the Duke is intended to be boyish and brash and not a 
leader at all, but lacking also in his portrayal is the nat
ural regality, haughtiness, and arrogance bred into 
nobility. Yet, when a royal nature is no longer neces
sary, cowled as it is, the Duke seems a very fine friar, 
as long as we do not expect a fake friar to give away 
the actual nobility underneath. Isabella, too, seemed 
to take on half her role, playing the brat believably, yet 
failing to express an adolescent turmoil of emotions 
believably. The actor, Bridges, does not seem to have
constructed an interpretation, though to her credit, it 
is tough to assign rationality to Isabella. Her mood 
transitions as she talks to her brother in prison come 
like a tempest, unexplained and destructive, though 
less destructive to the plays fabric than when she and 
Angelo fail to create a dark chemistry when Isabella is 
confronted with the mans blackmail. Luckily for this 
production, a cleverly portrayed Lucio saves the day at 
every turn. The devilish rogue, with properly timed 
grins and seamlessly interjected quips, keeps the audi
ence smiling. The productions Shakespeare coach 
Leslie ODell also deserves praise, as the audience eas
ily followed the storys complexities, despite the natu
ral inconvenience of centuries-old material.
Alana Schmidts austere set was tiered and some
what gloomy. The production used minimal props to 
good effect: a bench, a table, a coil of rope, and one or 
two other odds and ends. While the play was no 
Broadway hit, it accomplished much: a clear story, a 
good deal of laughter, and a seemingly satisfied audi
ence.
Measure for Measure will continue through October
11 at Philip Chosky Theater in the Purnell Center.
spfunE ecGpOcpV tfwacugRpglGwn
10pillbox. 6 October 2003.

---------------------------------------------------

Trading corsets for kimonos
At the Pittsburgh Public Theater, Gilbert & Sullivans prim satire brims with Victoriam curiosity
They wear socks with sandals and carry fans everywhere they go, but the citizens 
of Titipu are fashion plates in their own way. The Japanese village and its denizens, 
the subject of British masters Gilbert and Sullivans 1885 operetta The Mikado, are 
no more Japanese than a California Roll, but Pittsburgh Public Theaters current 
production, running through October 26 at the OReilly Theater downtown, is the 
best argument yet against the musical masterpieces ethnocentrism.
At the start of what seems at first like a typical comedy of manners, strapping 
musical nomad Nanki-Poo (John Matthew Morgan), secretly son and heir to the 
Mikado of Japan, seeks shelter in Titipu, a stiffly-starched but very musical village 
where flirting is punishable by death. He has returned to woo the lovely Yum-Yum 
(Catrina Lennon), ward and soon-to-be-bride of Titipus jovial Lord High 
Executioner, Ko-Ko (Frederick Reeder).
Under a silly and complicated royal decree pending death by beheading for 
someone in the town, the two men politely try to deceive, indict and kill each other 
and play keep-away with Yum-Yum until the Mikado arrives with the corpulent 
Katisha (Melissa Parks), an elderly court lady searching for Nanki-poo so she can 
take his affections by force. Someone has to marry her for Nanki-poo to be free, but 
Ko-Ko, the most likely choice, can't seem to keep from whimpering like a baby 
whenever she walks by. Chaos, social commentary, and a light lunch ensue; final
ly, all is resolved, but not before the audience realizes that these queer and quaint 
Japanese are remarkably like themselves and everyone they know.
As purveyors of middle-class 19th-century Englands favorite pastime, they 
enjoyed overwhelming popular success for most of their lives, but W.S. Gilbert and 
Arthur Sullivan could hardly have been considered traditionalists. Their 
unequaled marriage of feather-light melodic line and razor-sharp rhyme benefits 
equally from both impeccably pure poetic form and searing social commentary. 
The residents of far-flung Titipu are creatures as foreign as the masters could find, 
but muddle their personal lives with as much fear and foppish indecision as their 
British counterparts could ever have had  all in strict iambs and trochees with 
feet as delicate as those on any porcelain doll.
Set designer James Noones precious set is the ideal place for these frail beings to 
gossip, get married, commit suicide, and enjoy each others saccharine songs. With 
just the right amount of Asian flair apparent in the velvety blue trees that flank the 
keyhole-shaped false proscenium, the glossy, imitation-cloisonn floor, and the 
sweetly watercolored sky backdrop, the place belongs in a snow globe in a 
Japanese airport. Noone has created the perfect, barely-believable, larger-than-life 
world for the citizens of Titipu, and tiptoes the line between parody and patronage 
of these silly, stereotypical folk with a softly-stockinged foot.
Flower medallions festoon floor and ceiling, and the sets abundant red lacquer 
could almost be made of candy. Red lacquered benches, a red lacquered bridge, 
and even a red lacquered fence around the orchestra pit emphasize the order and 
delicate pomp of a world where people can be put to death for flirting.
Costumer Howard Tsvi Kaplans lush brocade and soft pastel kimonos define 
character and provide glamour without weighty, dramatic opulence, and Dennis 
Parichys crystal-clear comic lighting kept timing and mood on track and stayed 
out of the way.
Director Ted Pappas, the artistic director of the Public for the past four years, 
reveals sharp comic timing left untapped in most of his work: dialogue blithely 
flies by, arias never linger long enough to wear out their welcome, and physical 
comedy bits snap into place with military precision and gymnastic grace. As cho
reographer, too, Pappas shines; at the rise of the show, when the men of Titipu 
promenade on in their starched outfits and stiff wigs, the articulation of their ges
tures sets the scene better even than the exquisite lyrics of the exposition they sing.
After a lengthy career directing all manner of plays on Broadway, off-Broadway, 
and at regional theaters nationwide, Pappas knows what to do with a hefty budg
et, but his work with actors continually chokes the life out of popular and classic
dramatic literature alike. His derivative production of Much Ado About Nothing last 
year was referred to by many as Much Ado About a Movie. But with old pals 
Gilbert and Sullivan, all his expertise suddenly comes to the fore, and his audience v"*~ 
feels well-handled at last. The fact that Pappas tries to fit a Gilbert and Sullivan 
operetta into the Publics season every year indicates what can only be described as 
devotion.
Die-hard Mikado enthusiasts and fans of Gilbert and Sullivan (as well as recent 
converts made by this production) might appreciate the 1999 film Topsy-Turvy, 
which tells the story of Gilbert and Sullivans dry spell, their trip to Japan, their 
subsequent mission to bridge East and West, and the opening night that schooled 
London in the finer (fictitious) points of Japanese village life. In the movie, as in 
The Mikado itself, the pair has a hard time figuring out where ethnic stereotypes 
and social criticism meet, but in the end, the compromise yields a strong portrait 
of the most important character in any Gilbert & Sullivan operetta  the audience.
lnrdpwn (crdpwk)V (wrrTcP tfwacu
Katisha (Melissa Parks) and Ko-Ko (Frederick Reeder) ham it up onstage.
Courtesy of Pittsburgh Public Theater
pillbox. 6 October 2003.11

---------------------------------------------------

Jg
A smooth Finnish
Wartime friendships break the language barrier in this charming import
Due to its absurdity and brutality, war brings out the 
most primitive instincts in human nature. When com
mon men are isolated from their everyday lives and 
forced to either kill others or be killed, each and every 
one of them ultimately suffers alone. Written and 
directed by Aleksandr Rogozhkin, Cuckoo tells the 
story of three loners of war from different countries 
who seek safety in one another, despite an often insur
mountable language barrier.
The film is set in Finland at the end of World War II, 
around the time when Finland pulled itself out of the 
war and ended its alliance with Germany against 
Russia. Ville Haapasalo plays Veikko, a Finnish sniper 
who is captured and chained to a rock by his Russian 
captors. Using his strong survival instinct, he manages 
to free himself and finds his way to the cottage of Anni, 
a Lapp woman who has rescued Ivan, a wounded 
Russian soldier. Ivan had been arrested by the secret 
police, but was the only survivor of an attack on his 
army truck. Despite being soldiers of two enemy 
armies, Veikko and Ivan find comfort in one another
and in Anni, who has grown used to loneliness, but 
longs for a mans affection. The films first half-hour 
illustrates the feelings of isolation that each of the 
three characters feel while on their own. 
Unfortunately, some of the films weakest moments are 
found in its slow first third that makes it difficult for 
the viewer to become engaged in the characters. The 
movie picks up its pace when all three characters find 
one another and begin to struggle with their differ
ences in languages and ways of life; from this moment 
on the film becomes both heartfelt and entertaining. 
Successfully illustrating cultural differences, the movie 
experiences several genuine moments of comedy as all 
of the characters live under the impression that they 
are making themselves understood. Ironically Ivan and 
Veikko, who find their language barrier the most diffi
cult, share many of the same dreams and opinions. 
Most importantly, both of them no longer wish to fight. 
The film illustrates successfully the way loneliness can 
create unlikely friendships. Eventually differences 
between individuals become unimportant, and all 
three simply hang on to each other for safety and com
Lost in Translation
Bill Murray gives his finest performance ever as a lonely American in Tokyo
Sofia Coppolas Lost in Translation is one of those 
rare films that manages to span multiple genres with 
undeniable Success. It is a romantic comedy, a human 
drama, and a fish-out-of-water story all rolled into 
one. 1
Bill Murray stars as Bob Harris, an aging American 
movie star who travels to Tokyo to do commercials for 
Santori Whiskey. Although his popularity has waned 
in America, he is still popular in Japan and is being 
paid two million dollars to appear in a few commer
cials. Scarlet Johansson plays Charlotte, a young 
woman who comes to Japan with her photographer 
husband John (Giovanni Ribisi). Suffering from jet 
lag, Bob and Charlotte meet up in their hotel bar and 
take an interest in one another. They bond over a 
mutual sense of confusion, created by both their for
eign surroundings and the direction their lives have 
taken.
The setup is ripe for Charlotte and Bob to consider 
adultery. Naturally, the audience expects the two 
leads to become lovers. It would be easy to have Bob 
and Charlotte find themselves by falling into bed 
together. Lost in Translation, however, rises above this 
clich. In a series of scenes that is both amusing and 
heart-wrenching, Bob and Charlotte, unable to sleep 
and desperate to escape their ultra-modern hotel, 
wander the streets of Tokyo together, going to bizarre
nightclubs and karaoke parties. Never has insomnia 
been so well captured on screen.
Cinematographer Lance Acord perfecdy captures 
the 24-hour neon buzz of downtown Tokyo. The 
nights seem to stretch out forever, and the constant 
flashing of neon makes it impossible to tell what time 
it is. Although Johansson is enjoyable to watch, it is 
the scenes of the subdued, sarcastic Murray that are 
the most compelling. Scenes in which he interacts 
with a Japanese director, talk show host, and unwant
ed call girl are a pure joy to watch.
Some viewers might not appreciate the somewhat 
stereotypical picture of Japan that is presented in Lost 
in Translation. The setting, however, is not really the 
point. This movie is not supposed to be a cheap poke 
at Japan. Coppolas Japan is not intended to be realis
tic, but an exaggerated parody seen through the eyes 
of two disoriented Westerners. This is undoubtedly 
Bill Murray's greatest performance to date. With sub
tle face and body language, he manages to convey 
self-loathing, sarcasm, longing, and quiet desperation 
all at the same time. He does not, however, play for 
huge laughs. The movie works better this way, how
ever, because Murray is true to his character. The 
audience can tell that he used to be funny all the time, 
but now its just too hard. Scarlett Johansson is won
derful as Charlotte, a strong, introspective character
fort. During the films strongest moments, Rogozhkin 
avoids creating unnecessary spectacle and simply 
places the viewer in the position of an observer of the 
magic of everyday life. Unfortunately, towards the end 
of the film Rogozhkin jumps away from this sense of 
realism as he tries to work magic and spirituality into 
the story. The scene in which Anni illustrates the Lapp 
way of bringing the nearly dead back to life is not only 
drawn-out but unnecessary. During this scene the film 
appears to wander off its point for the first time.
Cuckoo is a powerful statement for the ultimate 
goodness of human nature and the meaninglessness of 
war. The film is carried by realistic, emotional per
formances and bravely seeks to reach out its message 
to a multicultural audience. At times the movie suffers 
from drawn-out scenes, but overall Cuckoo is a beauti
ful film that encourages understanding, acceptance, 
and love. The film plays until October 9 at the Harris 
Theater Downtown. Call 412.682.4111 for times.
vd.ud (drcawnV -adEuwanu
Courtesy of R&S Entertainment
who is more than just a two-dimensional foil for 
Murrays comic antics.
With Lost in Translation, Coppola has wriggled out 
from under the shadow of her father and made a 
name for herself. She is a talented director with 
tremendous vision. Coppola also wrote the screen
play, and her talent for developing believable charac
ters and situations is apparent. Bob and Charlotte 
obviously care very deeply about each other, but both 
silendy realize that they can never have a future 
together. Both have made choices that they regret, 
but being together will not solve their problems. 
Sadly, they have to simply enjoy what little they have 
together. Earnest, moving and consistendy funny, 
Lost in Translation is a bittersweet meditation on the 
ephemeral nature of love and the human connection.
qcrr qksOGdpV -adEuwanu
1
0
pillbox. 6 October 2003.

---------------------------------------------------

From street theater to excre
ment to aquatic rodents, sub
ject matter at the 41st Ann 
Arbor Film Festival ran the 
gamut. At Pittsburgh 
Filmmakers Melwood
Screening Room on Friday and 
Saturday nights this past week
end, Pittsburgh got a taste of 
the state of the art in the form 
of the festivals annual touring 
reel. On the reel: the premier 
innovative offerings from Ann 
Arbor, the nations oldest and 
most respected independent 
short film festival.
The free program, sponsored 
by the Regional Asset District, 
was served up in two parts on 
both evenings, with a brief 
intermission in between that 
left enough time for coffee, cig
arettes, or both. Audiences 
were vocal, responding with 
chuckles, jeers, and the occa
sional drawn-out sigh, to 17 
short films ranging from docu
mentaries to highly unusual 
forms of animation.
Though cable television will 
likely be this reels next stop, 
consider saving the date and 
seeing next years shorts at 
Melwood on the big screen; 
indy film devotees will feel 
challenged by these meaty tid
bits, and everyone else will 
marvel at the varied sounds, 
textures, and uses of screen 
space that never show up at the 
multiplex.
Altelng hoy
Nutria
Ted Gesing, Austin, TX; docu
mentary, 13.5 min.
Prix deVarti Award for 
Funniest Film
This quirky, 1970s-style doc
umentary chronicles recent 
efforts to rid the Louisiana 
swamplands of their most tena
cious resident, the nutria. 
People and government alike 
gang up against the muskrat
like Argentinian mammals, 
picking them off with rifles 
from SWAT pontoon boats, 
reading storybooks about their 
extermination to children, and 
even coaxing patrons at a mar
keting bazaar to eat their 
stewed meat and proclaim it 
good to the ever-present cam
era.
Damaged 
Mike Hoolboom, Toronto, 
Canada; experimental, 10 min.
The entire film is composed 
of a stop-motion slideshow of 
vintage postcards, with a 
cheery voiceover that not-sosubtly weaves them into an 
average, American-life story. 
Charming irony reminiscent of 
the writings of David Sedaris 
combines with the poignant 
images to create an almost 
believable folktale that is hilar
ious, heartfelt, and painfully 
American.
The Good Son 
Michael Sandoval, New York, 
NY; documentary, 9 min.
As a devout Filipino minis
ters son, Jimmy patiendy sub
mits to expectations, church 
activities, and the ever-watchful eye of his overprotective 
father. He ponders his peers, 
his masculinity, and his respon
sibilities to his family. Intimate, 
quietly potent black-and-white 
photography exposes Jimmys 
vulnerability while treating the 
subject matter with delicacy 
and dignity.
Arrete
Berhard Schreiner, Austria; 
experimental documentary, 
3.5 min.
The camera fades in and out 
on pastoral Alpine views 
through different cottage win
dows as goat bells jangle. 
Thats it.
Closer to Heaven 
Diane Bonder, Brooklyn, NY; 
experimental, 14 min.
Audiovisions Award for Best 
Sound Design 
Bonders poetic, mostly 
black-and-white farewell to her 
father uses the weather as a 
metaphor for the stages of 
grief. Color is used to highlight 
new places and faces, but most
ly, the films winter imagery 
invokes childhood memories 
and sofdy recalls simpler times.
Bitter
Tamara Tracz, London, 
England; experimental narra
tive, 3.5 min.
A woman sings along in 
Portuguese to a pop song as 
animated words float around 
her and bemoan her isolation. 
The films sharply effective por
trait of modern neuroses leaves 
little room for empathy.
Downpour Resurfacing 
Frances Nkara, San 
Francisco, CA; documentary,
28 min.
Tom Berman Award for Most 
Promising Filmmaker 
While wading through 
Robert Halls dense narrative of 
his life story, the film manages 
to touch on every major philo
sophical issue yet raised. But if 
half his audience falls asleep by 
the middle of the film, Berman 
would do well to swap some of 
that insight for a police whistle.
Ultima Thule 
Janie Geiser, Los Angeles, 
CA; experimental animation, 10 min.
Paper people in a plane can 
crash into the ocean and not 
wring a drop of viewer sympa
thy, but with sweet vintage pic
tures, creative mixing of twodimensional and three-dimen
sional objects and lush, ubiqui
tous use of the color blue, this 
animation is anything but flat.
Bear Girl: Dog Boy 
Jeff Sterne, Toronto, Canada; 
animation, 12 min.
In a junkyard on the edge of a 
verdant forest, bears and dogs 
shop, fight and mate for dear 
life. Strong imagery and 
mature narration make this 
kiddie tale suited only for 
adults, especially those not 
afraid to watch a bear use a 
vibrator.
Altelng ivt
Rude Roll 
Rick Raxlen, Victoria BC, 
Canada; animation, 5 min.
With splashy, pulsating pop
art drawings and jumpy beats, 
this happy, dance-driven car
toon takes the prize for color
ful, high-contrast fun.
Teatro Roots
Kristin Pichaske, San 
Francisco, CA; documentary, 9 
min.
Decades after its beginnings 
as a union tool in the fields, 
Teatro Campesino is still the 
theater of the people. The 
father and son team that kept it 
alive comment on the evolution 
of this grassroots revolution, 
one migrant worker at a time.
Sand
Percy Fuentes, Regina, 
Saskatchewan, Canada; anima
tion, 12 min.
Tom Berman Award for Most 
Promising Filmmaker
Sand animation, manipulat
ed via computer, gives this 
urban tale its elusive charm. 
Japanese narration and subti
tles add to the sense of detach
ment inherent in the delicate 
touch of this meditation on 
memory.
Glow in the Dark (JanuaryJune)
Rebecca Meyers, Chicago, IL; 
experimental, 8.5min
Cityscapes and pastoral vis
tas glow at night with brighthued lights from various 
sources. Because the piece 
complacendy relies on nature 
and light for its abstract beauty 
instead of creating a clear visu
al or narrative progression, this 
camera experiment is too pas
sive to be truly striking.
Twirl Girl
Trish Van Heusen, Vashon, 
WA; experimental, 4.5 min.
Incorporating circular and 
female imagery from found 
footage, xerography, rotoscoping and hand processing, this 
retro study in femininity is a 
visual treat but lacks direction, 
and packs too little ideological 
punch to be an effective satire.
Yes? Oui? Ja?
Thomas Draschan, Frankfurt, 
Germany; experimental, 3.5 
min.
A montage of swimmers, 
lovely women, and hypnotic
graphical patterns make 
Draschans tranquil dreamscape a luxurious mental vaca
tion, sans emotional baggage. 
Even one human character or 
memorable shot would rescue 
this sweet short from a mindnumbing paucity of meaning.
The New Patriots
Robert Richter, New York, 
NY; documentary, 18 min.
In Richters spirited but scat
tered take on the U.S.s role in 
international terrorism, 
Vietnam veterans, a 
Congressional Medal of Honor 
recipient, and an instructor at 
the infamous U.S.-hosted tor
ture academy formerly known 
as the School of the Americas 
reflect on their participation in 
the worlds most powerful mili
tary body.
In Order Not to Be Here
Deborah Stratman, Chicago, 
IL; experimental, 33.5 min.
Gus Van Zant Award for Best 
Experimental Film
Primarily made up of surveil
lance videos, this vibrant but 
sometimes monotonous mon
tage presents the placid safety 
of a colorful, brightly-lit subur
ban paradise at night  then 
destroys the illusion of security 
by following police as they hunt 
down a fugitive.
U
Yuri A, Zurich, Switzerland; 
experimental, 4 min.
This ultra-childish celebra
tion of scatological humor uses 
imagery, sound effects, props, 
and costumes to outlandish 
and hilarious effect. A small 
boy narrates, at once making 
the film a little more adorable 
and a lot more disturbing. Wet 
wipes recommended.
lnrdpwn (crdpwk)V 
(wrrTcP tfwacu
Header by Jennifer Keinard/Art Staff
pillbox. 6 October 2003.1

---------------------------------------------------

CLASSIFIEDS.
OPPORTUNITIES.
www.SpecklyDoo.com -- The hottest new site offering an eclectic 
array of handmade gift items for you, your home, and your pam
pered pets! New items added constantly. Right now, we have 
beautiful cat-themed jewelry, unusual Halloween home decor 
items, summer purse clearance sale, and unique back-to-school 
purses.
Want to make FAST money?
Get paid $3 - $10 for only 20 minutes. Sign up today to partici
pate in this fun, easy, and quick word puzzle study. For times and 
information e-mail: ejcho@andrew.cmu.edu with Puzzle Study in 
the subject line.
Test your word skills, but more importantly, GET PAID! WINTER 
AND SPRING BREAK Ski & Beach Trips on sale now! 
www. Sunchase. com 
or call 1.800.SUNCHASE today!
Need an extra $36,000 a year?
Vending route for sale. Cost $5000.00 
Help find missing children.
1.800.853.7155 or www.webdesignl99.com
Talk Therapy Research Study for Depression and Anxiety Men and 
women, ages 18 to 60, who are suffering with symptoms of both 
depression and anxiety are needed to participate in a talk therapy 
research study. For more details or to see if you qualify, please call 
the Depression Prevention Program at 412.624.4444. There are 
no costs associated with the study. All calls are confidential.
O'HARA TOWNSHIP
Good first house in the Fox Chapel School District. Brick Cape Cod 
with 3 BR, 2 Baths. $160,000. For info send e-mail to manfredi@pitt.edu Awesome 2 Bedroom Townhouse Style. Newly 
Remodeled, Roof Top Deck, Quiet. $850.00 + Gas & Electric. Call 
412.621.3028.
PEER EDUCATORS WANTED
Peer Educators needed to present sexuality education programs to 
teens. Good public speaking skills desired. No experience nec
essary. Paid training. Flexible part-time hours. Must be high 
school graduate. Great for college students. Possible internship 
opportunities. For more information, please call 412.288.2130 
ext. 176 and ask for Damion or send e-mail to fhcpeereducation@hotmail.com
Depression
Is it a problem for you or someone you love? You're not alone. 
According to the National Institute of Mental Health, during any 
one-year period, 18.8 million Americans-one in 10 adults-experience depression. Andrea Fagiolini, MD, is conducting a research 
study at the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center to examine 
the effectiveness of an antidepressant medication for major 
depression. You or a loved one may qualify if you:
* are age 18 to 60
* feel depressed and anxious
* are either antidepressant-free or taking an antidepressant that is 
not helping
As part of the study, participants will undergo psychological 
assessments and receive medication. The medication to be used 
in this study has been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug 
Administration for major depression. There is no cost for partici
pating in the study. For more information, please call Traci 
Salopek today at 412.624.4444. All calls are confidential.
SPRING BREAK 2004! Travel with Beach Life Vacations! 
America's Best
Student Tour Operator! Jamaica, Cancn, Acapulco, Bahamas, 
Florida. Sell
Trips, Earn Cash, Travel Free! Hurry - Book Now!
1.800.733.6347
www. beachlifevacations. com
Bed - Queen Pillowtop Matress & Box 
New, Never used in plastic 
Sell $190 Can Deliver
412.292.9120
Completely healthy males ages 18-40 without medical problems 
and not taking any medications needed for research study in the 
division of Pulmonary, Allergy and Critical Care Medicine at the 
University of Pittsburgh Medical Center.' Must have no history of 
diabetes, insomnia, smoking, or depression. Study will involve two 
48-hour sessions in the sleep laboratory during the week. Total 
participation time will be approximately 4 weeks. No cost to par
ticipants; financial compensation provided. Call Heidi at
412.692.2880.
HAIR MODELS NEEDED! Male and female. All hair types. Call
412.488.8951 ext. 201 for details and upcoming casting calls.
Seeking a ghost writer to place my thoughts into words for a 
Mystery Novel. $50.00 per chapter. 12 chapters:$600.00 - 15 
chapters: $750.00. Please send resume to:
Fifthave61@yahoo.com or fax to: 412.422.4329 ATTN: Mr. Walter 
Trent. Qualifications: Creativity and the enjoyment of writing.
Spring Break '04 with Student City.com and Maxim Magazine! Get 
hooked up with Free trips, Cash and VIP Status as a Campus Rep! 
Choose from 15 of the hottest destinations. Book early for FREE 
MEALS, FREE DRINKS and 150% Lowest Price Guarantee! To 
reserve online or view our Photo Gallery, visit www.studentcity.com 
or call 1-888-SPRINGBREAK!
FOR RENT: CMU Student Seeking CMU Female Roommate for 
Second Bedroom and Private Full Bath. Saxony Apartments 229 
N. Craig Street. FURNISHED Apartment ONLY .5 miles from 
CMU. LAUNDRY and PARKING available. Shared Utilities, CABLE 
and INTERNET. (WATER PAID). 11 Month Lease for $500/month. 
Call: 520-370-1787. E-mail: tcpaz@hotmail.com
aMnddf1fy2 :n3yd 
All local ads are free at The Tartan's discretion
MAIL TO:
The Tartan, Box 1017 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15289
 Classifieds must be paid in cash, check, or 
credit card before first run date
 Non-local ad rates:
1-20 words..........$10.00/wk
21-50 words..........$12.00/wk
51-100 words.......$15.00/wk
 Due 5 pm Thursday before publication
Power of One
withstpheca lga esh luPng4
This weeks %movie is once again The Power of One, 
me. While I havent seen the aforementioned capital
ized phrase, I have been to South Africa, where this 
move is set and a boy fights racial oppression. The 
place is still a dump, and still racist. But theres a 
shiny new casino resort, so some things do change
Velvet Goldmine
w:30-pheca 6Pngalga esh lung4
And so it begins. The International Film festival is all 
deez next ones. This one is about 70s London and 
Glamrock. And isnt Ewan McGregor a sexy beast? 
Rated R, this film has drugs, nudity, and everything 
else you could possibly want. In the 70s, people were 
still doing lots of acid all at once, when it turns out 
the proper dose is between 100 and 300 micrograms.
Whalerider
wm-7heca lga esh lu4
It's like Free Willy, except shes a daughter of a chief 
of some tribe and her twin died at childbirth, making 
her the heir. And thats rough on the tribe, because 
shes a girl, and even we in America know girls cant 
lead or do much more than cook our food and clean 
our homes, although its good to let them be on top 
occasionally (wink wink). Oh, and you only get two 
showings of this one because someone in Student 
Activities is a goof, or so said a little bird to me.
Freida
w8e&0-heca 6Pngalga esh lu4
Holy cow, a movie from 1947! Did they even have 
movies outside of the good ol U.S. of A. back then? 
Apparently so, because this movie (which supposedly 
exists) is about an Englishman who brings his 
German wife back home after she helps him escape a 
POW camp. And everyone at home is bigoted! The 
highlight of this film may be when you get to see 
actual concentration camp footage, so have a light 
dinner.
Shall We Dance
w80sheca 6Pngalga esh luPng4
A Japanese man in the midst of a midlife crisis dis
covers meaning in a Tokyo Dance class. Which 
reminds me of the time I was in Osaka, and my girl
friend and I, looking for a karaoke club, wandered in 
on some private party and everyone stared at us like 
we were gaijin. Fun facts I learned in Japan: private 
parts are blurred out in porno, you can have sex in a 
private karaoke booth, people yell really loudly at you 
when you leave a store, everything gets a separate bag 
at McDonalds, and corn flakes go really well with ice 
cream.
14pillbox. 6 October 2003.

---------------------------------------------------

33 Reasons to live by Nick Ennis and Lindsey Q.
ACROSS
2 This makes the plants and flowers grow
5 Some do it to live, some live to do it
6 Mom, dad, bro, and sis
9 Sweet and final payback
10 Afternoon zzzs
12 Responsible for your conception
14 Sweet, sweet lovin
15 This DVR gives you any show, any time
16 Big chuckles
19 His potential existence
20 Where the heart is
22 This fine paper
24 Video, board, and word entertainment
26 Tazos fruit-flavored tea
28 What you do for a living
29 Creative outlet
30 Imelda Marcoss fetish
31 Buddy-building website
DOWN
1 . Waiting for the 2nd__
2 Constellation dots
3 Birthday dessert
4 Find them at 31 across
7 Cluster geeks super highway
8Hunt for hidden
11Keep your ungrateful kids from get
ting their__
13Journalists expression
14Advantage buy occasion
17All you need is__
1850 Cent and his magic__
21Melodic expression
23You got your varsity letter playing
these
25Vacation season
27Progeny
O
hD
Oun
y\
\/
LULU
I 
<
,vfvfJAPANBBS
HoWph2v:ANApIfTu1G1L Ulu
il FNUpST | A | R
K1 |NGDO4vh1KCL 
OB BolA&Kly
IwHODT, mS
wUmPR2vvTs v2
AMBTilLyo&
B i BARK Yj|ENW 74v 3
6vR7<DROTB PLrCC
2vN1NTEi7*oBjJix<-:COHfrTTpPE< 7Bo:
G3KHERBoALjR
V BBSI0RPflfiiL
&oCO1NSrac<vTEok&
cjl0oeRcfhS
PTfpE|H
HOROSCOPES.
BY DINAH WINNICK
ARIES (March 21- April 19): Optimistically assuming your toes are black from 
wearing dark socks in the rain will result in your uncongenial separation from 
two of the beloved little piggies, but don't worry. They're not an important two.
TAURUS (April 20 - May 20): The current city administration will simply lack 
the vision to properly appreciate your plan of replacing UPMC with a giant 
crater and coniferous forest to increase eco-tourism in the Pittsburgh area
GEMINI (May 21 - June 21): Your new band will 
have a great three-hour run before deciding the best 
way you can contribute to the indie music genre is 
by disbanding.
CANCER (June 22 - July 22): Someone whom you 
have never met will mistakenly call your phone 
today when you are not home, quickly realize it's 
the wrong number, and hang up before the machine 
catches it. Fifteen years from now, you will run into 
him at a convenience store in New Jersey and enjoy 
a brief conversation about the tough, lonely life as a truck driver, only then 
realizing the full depth of your connection.
LEO (July 23 - August 22): You will be mistakenly 
contacted by the Ancient May Lords of Xibalba and 
not understand a single word they say, ending your 
career as a medium faster than any other in the last 
several thousand years.
VIRGO (August 23 - September 22): While your 
significant others royal parents will not think high
ly or your dairy farmer lineage, they will truly appre
ciate the genetic diversity and hearty DNA you 
could bring to the family.
LIBRA (September 23 - October 23): You will finally realize, after your com
puter self-destructs in a wild calculating frenzy, just how much your family 
loves and appreciates you for your free, anytime electronics repair services.
SCORPIO (October 24 - November 21): Next Thursday you will finally make 
time to read a non-academic book to retain your sanity, cracking open a novel 
for the first time since August. Unfortunately, it and any other fictional mate
rial you pick up will spontaneously combust upon hitting your longing finger
tips.
SAGITTARIUS (November 22 - December 21): Tomorrow you will decide to 
spice up your regular make, work, sleep schedule with a hot cup of Joe, delay
ing your designated sleep period, and throwing off your schedule for three to 
four panic-ridden days.
CAPRICORN (December 22 - January 19): 
Your lack of superpowers and the impossibility 
of 3D onomatopoetic Pow! "Woosh! and 
"Bang! bubbles spontaneously appearing in 
the real world will severely limit the success 
and duration of the life of Silver Sleuth: Private 
Eye/Kung Fu Master of the Night
AQUARIUS (January 20 - February 18): Bridget Lewis/Art staff
Moving to a minimally populated region of rural America 
post-graduation will do wonders for your political career
PISCES (February 19 - March 20): Today you have a one-in-4972 chance of 
winning $5 in your state lottery. Excitement is in the air!
pillbox. 6 October 2003.1

---------------------------------------------------

(CAN I HELP YOU?
duckbar
Weekly inspiration from the ominously brooding pond
Rupert watched Amy turn her head and wipe away tears after his 
startling disclosure. No one else in the world could understand the 
feeling of Ruperts sinking heart besides those poor souls who have 
also confessed a love that was better left unspoken. But, what was 
this? Amy was looking up again, right at Rupert. Her lower bill quiv
ered a bit as she descended into the pond, never taking her eyes off her friend. Amy 
slowly brought her head to the surface of the water and, using her wings, splashed 
the cold liquid over her face and neck. Rupert watched his friend transform before 
him as Amy the Ducks mottled brown and black feathers seemed to melt into iri
descent green plumage, characteristic of the male of the species! Amy was no hen; 
she was a drake!
Harold and the Other Guy
/^What's Robort 
doing in the 
kitchen?
Playing with his new 
Kitchen Bitch Jeremy 
doll.
by Bob Rost (rrost@andrcw.cmu.edu)http://www.andrew.cmu.edu/~rrost/harold
Don't you mean 
action figure?
Harold and the Other Guy AIM icons are now available on the website!
BEFORE YOU ANSWER THAT,
I HAVE THE BEST THINS FOR 
A UNIVERSITY BOOKSTORE. 
INVISIBLE ISBN NUMBERS 
SO STUDENTS CAN'T FIND THEIR 
TEXTBOOKS ONLINE. *
WAS LOOKING FOR A BOOKTHAT'S PROGRESS?)ON THE MEANING OF LIFE
G. Prichard 
gprichar@
Everybodies News by Franz Harter
More Tyler & Fred at www.geocities.com/tyler_and_fred
igo lj
~X 0^1 e!
m ^ OA&
wuffin? Yes P'ese-Didn t say 
a thing.
11:45 by Ed Ryan epr@
All ^Ours l/lt/'Ac^L
,buK a of -M*
wAe rxl >o.
/Look, you Maker, dolls let 
people play house. Action 
figures fight battles. I 
seriously doubt that Robort 
is playing 
house.
Ar~~/
Shut up.
1
pillbox. 6 October 2003.

---------------------------------------------------

D tJglPa
gf Cu6aa dAb.o
I CAN'T GIVE YOU 
THE SALARY THAT YOU 
DESERVE BECAUSE THEN THERE'D BE NO ROOM FOR A RAISE NEXT 
YEAR.
I WOULDN'T WANT YOU TO BE ALL 
DISINCENTIVIZED, YOU KNOW, JUST 
DOPING AROUND.
NECK... MUSCLES. SO... 
WEAK.
I THINK 
MOTIVATION 
CAUSES THAT.
EVIL H.R. DIRECTOR
NEW POLICY : YOU MUST INFORM YOUR BOSS 
BEFORE APPLYING FOR AN INTERNAL JOB OPENING. .
WELL, GOOD LUCK, 
YOU DISLOYAL, BACK-STABBING 
INGRATE.
I'VE ONLY KNOWN YOU FOR THREE 
SECONDS AND ALREADY I HAVE A DEEP DESIRE TO PUNCH YOU.
I LOVE GOLF. GOLFING IS FUN. IT'S A GOOD 
DAY TO GOLF. DO YOU 
WANT TO GO GOLFING IN THE RAIN TOMOR
ROW AT 6 A.M. ?
I'VE NOTICED THAT EVERY DECISION YOU 
MAKE IS DIFFERENT 
FROM WHAT I WOULD HAVE DONE.
WOULD IT BE OKAY 
IF I WORKED THREE 
HOURS A WEEK?
NO, THANKS. I HAVE 
PLANS TO SANDPAPER MY ENTIRE BODY AND 
ROLL AROUND IN SALT.
ANY MORE THAN 
THREE AND MY QUALITY OF LIFE 
TAKES A STEEP DIVE.
SECONDLY, IS THIS 
A GOOD TIME TO TALK ABOUT A GIGANTIC RAISE?
MY IQ IS 240. YOUR 
IQ ASPIRES TO THE 
THREE-DIGIT RANGE.I ASSUME THAT YOUR INTUITION AND EXPERIENCE ARE GUIDING 
YOU.
by Stephan PastisGOAT
0 Pr::id.rP^^^iPrHN 
Ii0W,s m aww Pr: 
-concpn 022lcpaucrrwpJyV oyv^ y V ctoofy^C .
so ehiHe owe
Of THOSE 
REAL CONTROL 
v FREAKS? >
YOOR LAST SNEEZE WAS NOT 
ON OOR SCHEDULE.
WHAT? THIS IS TOTALLY OUT 
Of HMD... WHAT COULD BE 
WORSETHAN ONE PERSON 
DICTATING ANOTHER PERSONS 
CHOICE OF fRlENDS?
ERN PnuN uacNggaRmKKK / JfN SrH 
NE THIS LETTER | TOO...I GUESS 
SWING I'M MO JcoMtCQtmotUW 
LONGER HIS / HIS CHOICE OF
V FRIEND. FRIENDS NOVI. >
CMON. N0W....HOGYOR 
NEW MoM.
HEY, Yl LEFT HER.-I REALIZED 
RAT... THATVOOSHOULD N0>ER 
WHERE'S LET ANMECOATROL YOUR 
CONNlE?AUFE,NoMnER UOWSAW.Y 
^^ \ YOU WANT A GIRLFRIEND.,
IT SEEMS SoVyEAH,8uT Wi\ 
ONLIKE RAT TO \ SANS SHE'S 
DATE SOMEONE CuTE ENOUGH 
WHOS A CONTROL i TO ?UT UP ;
v freak. y \ with it. y
YEAH-lfS STRANGE HOW Y WELL, I A LITTLE LOKEHWESS CAN TUl^K WE\IE 
NAKEYoososusavmE auiearo TO HE SUCHTEST KTM AVAlOASlE fROWAN^TRACTIVERERSO^l LESSON..
GOSH... IX) YOU REALLY THINK 
X COLD BE AN UNDERWEAR 
MODEL ?
THAT SEEMS y OH.M SORE 
LIKE AM ] HELL S?EAK UP 
AWFULLY HIGH I FOR HMSELF 
PR\CE TO ?AY A \f IT GETS TOO 
^ -------\pOTOf HAND.,
IT HURTS WHEN YOU 3ERK IT 
LIKE THAT.
HI, CONNIE... ITS ME, RAT. 
I'M STILL AT THE DlNER 
W\TH GOAT.
UI,C0NN\E... ITS ME, ?AT. 
M STILL AT THE DlNER 
WlTH GOAT.
DONT Yov) FIND \T Y OH.FLEASE. 
H0VUllA1\NG TRAT YOUR \ YOU'RE 
GIRLFRIEND MAKES YOU I MAKING IT 
CHECK IN WITH HER /SOUND WUCH
V THAT OFTEN? y\ WORSE THAN
V it is. J
WHEN THE VJORL^) ENDS, I 
WANT TO &E R\GHT THERE 
BES\DE YOU 
NmRN CRg da Nma c/.auN 
NhIcJg9nHI2a a1aEK uRIx 
Nf CaK
YEAH... W\TU THE MEAT ON 
YOOR BONES,THEY'RE SOUND
r, ,is0i 6i sA,piK
3SAAO,LK 6 fMr,Oib 2003.
 \
17

---------------------------------------------------

Comickaze:
Free comics are closer than you think
In the 16th century, Spanish explorers traveled to 
the Americas in search of great fortunes. Legends 
dictated that a kingdom of unbelievable wealth of 
gold and jewels lay in wait to be discovered. El 
Dorado was the name of this mythical city. This week 
I discovered my own El Dorado. The surprising news 
is that its closer than I ever imagined. The Carnegie 
Library of Pittsburgh is only a five-minute walk from 
CMUs campus.
Id heard of the Carnegie Librarys selection of 
graphic novels, but I didnt believe it until I saw it 
with my own eyes. A giant three-tier shelf of comics 
lined the wall by the entrance to the humanities sec
tion. Inside, a short display entitled Teen Zone 
masks another copious shelf of comic book material. 
Beyond being moments from campus, the best part is 
that all these graphic novels are free.
A simple search for the keyword comic book pro
vides over 300 results in the Carnegie Librarys 
online catalog. But the library provides quality as 
well as quantity of comic trade paper backs. Heres a 
small overview of some of the comic jewels waiting 
to be discovered at the library:
:y|tM3ftonlWatchmen by Alan Moore and Dave Gibbons
This 400-page-plus graphic novel collects some of 
the most influential and literary comic work of the
WINNER Of lilt
past two decades. In the late 80s, Moore and 
Gibbons redefined the superhero comic book by 
introducing potent elements of politics and psychol
ogy into their twisted heroes. Of course, the book is 
action-packed too. But anti-heroes such as 
Rorschach, the Comedian, and Dr. Manhattan will 
leave lasting marks on the memory of any reader 
daring enough to sample this seminal work.
aMy|yl anl3ttofd3
The Adventures of Barry Ween, Boy Genius 
by Judd Winick
Forget Judd Winicks short-lived television career on 
The Real World. Winick is a fantastic, funny cartoon
ist not afraid to offend the reader for a hearty laugh. 
In his Barry Ween comics, Winick mixes sci-fi, child
hood experience, and lewd humor with surprisingly 
pleasing results.
Pedro and Me: Friendship, Loss, and What I Learned 
by Judd Winick
Pedro Zamora was Winicks memorable housemate 
on The Real World. Pedro was a gay man living with 
AIDS when the series was filmed, working hard to 
teach others about the AIDS epidemic. Winicks 
graphic novel is the story of his friendship with 
Pedro. The book has been compared to the likes of 
Art Spiegelmans Pulitzer Prize-winning epic holo
caust comic Maus. Since Pedros death, Winicks
work has memorialized the fallen AIDS educator and 
touched the hearts of readers.
Uicy Mno fo Mt3fto
Stan Lees Mutants, Monsters, and Marvels with Kevin 
Smith (DVD)
Comics and comedy superstar Kevin Smith sits down 
for a candid interview with Stan The Man Lee to 
discuss the history behind such icons as Spider-Man, 
the Hulk, the X-Men, and Daredevil. Long accepted 
as comic books ambassador to the outside world, 
Lee charms viewers with the complex origins of his 
superhero creations. This DVD acts as a powerful 
resource to both the dedicated fan and the casual 
comics consumer. Best of all, theres no rental fee to 
pay. The 95-minute interview checks out for one 
week with a free Carnegie Library membership.
I understand that my land of comic book fortune and 
glory may not be everyones El Dorado, but the value 
of entertainment and enlightenment in the Carnegie 
Librarys comic collection can benefit every reader. 
Graphic novels and collections abound under the 
librarys roof. A membership simply requires the 
prospective cardholder to provide an official docu
ment, such as a bill or bank statement, with a local 
address. More information can be found online at 
www.carnegielibrary.org.
,wk) qduwpcV -adEuwanu
TTT
Photo Courtesy of Dccomics.com
The revolutionary Watchmen.
Photo Courtesy of Barryween.com
Look! Its the lewd scientist.
Photo Courtesy of Burbankfilm.org
Mr. Marvel himself, Stan Lee.
18nEffOgMa P Cu.gOD' 4112af 1 i % * 3.3:1 1 j  j : k iflij 1 1

---------------------------------------------------

ca lend
Lets Talk About Sex: What is it? This discussion will 
explore many topics ranging from the biology of sex to 
queer sex. Hosted by Anita Barkin of Student Health 
Services. Connan Room, University Center. 8 pm. Door 
prizes will be raffled off.
Community Advisor (CA) and Resident Assistant (RA) appli
cations available. They are at vwm.studentaffairs.cmu.edu/student-life. 
CA applications due November 10; RA applications due 
January 14. Contact Jamie Rossi with any questions at 
jrossie@andrew.cmu.edu or 412.268.2142.
Ballet Manila. Carnegie Music Hall. 7 pm. $3 charge per 
order by mail. 412.856.1445.
A Night with Dame Edna. Heinz Hall. Through October 
12. For more information, call 412.456.1390.
AB Anime presents Get Bakers, episodes 1 and 2. Porter 
Hall 100. 7, 9, and 10 pm. E-mail questions to 
ab+anime@andrew. emu. edu.
Concert Choir. Robert Page, conductor. Kresge Recital 
Hall. 8 pm.
OUTSpoken Discussion. Danforth Lounge, University 
Center. The topic of discussion is Coming Out to 
Your Family. Come share your stories or fears about 
coming out, or anything else related to the discus
sion. 5:30 pm. Refreshments will be served.
MOBOT Open House. Wean Hall, 5409. 6 pm. Pizza will 
be served. For additional information, visit 
www.cs.cmu.edu/~mobot or e-mail mobot@cs.cmu.edu.
Maniac Mansion Haunted House. Maniac Mansion, 
Arnold. Wednesday, Thursday, and Sunday: 6 to 10 
pm; Friday and Saturday: 6 pm to midnight. $7. 
Through November 1. 724.335.8130. www.maniacmansion.com.
Marcoss Zero. The Rex Theater. 10 pm.
Scout: This Soft Life. Scotland Yard, basement of the 
University Center. 8 pm. Part of Skibo Coffeehouse 
Wednesday music series.
Brian Regan, Comedian. The Improv, Homestead. 
Thursday: 8 pm; Friday: 8 and 10 pm; Saturday: 7, 9, 
and 11 pm; Sunday: 7 pm. Through October 12.
412.462.5233.
The Eyes of Alice Cooper. A.J. Palumbo Center. 7:30 pm. 
For tickets, call 412.323.1919 or order online at 
Ticketmaster.com.
WRCT Information Session. WRCT, basement of the 
University Center. Learn how to get trained in the areas of 
producing, DJ-ing, music directing, and more. 6 pm. 
412.268.WRCT. www.wrct.org.info@wrct.org.
Carnegie Mellon Green Practices. Connan Room, University 
Center. Telecast: noon to 2 pm; discussion: 2 to 3 pm.
Jazz Ensembles. David 
Recital Hall. 8 pm.
Pellow, director. Kresge
Art opening reception for Detox: Study Abroad Show with spe
cial guest Soundbytes, Carnegie Mellons a capella group. The
Frame Art Space. Opening reception: 7 to 10 pm; 
Soundbytes, 9 pm. Exhibit on display through October 14.
4th Annual Hilltop Hose VFD Haunted House. Hilltop Hose Co #3 
VFD. Fridays and Saturdays, 7 to 11 pm; Sundays: 6 to 10 
pm; October 31: 7 pm until last scare. Adults, $5; children
10 and under, $3. October 10-11, 17-19, 24-26, 31. 
724.224.9968
International Festival: The Tamburitans. Rangos Ballroom, 
University Center. 8 pm. www.cmu.edu/internationalfestival.
Little Egypt. Connan Room, University Center. 3 pm.
Hip-Hop 101. Behind the scenes of hip-hop music with 
Little Egypt. The Underground. 10 pm.
WPTS 92.1 FM: 90s Dance Party. WPU Assembly Room. 
10:30 pm to 2 am. $4.
The TRU-Vibes Exhibition and Live Recording. The Greater 
Pittsburgh Coliseum (7310 Frankstown Avenue, 
Pittsburgh). Doors: 9 pm; show: 10 pm. $6 in advance, $8 
at door. Refreshments will be served. 50/50 giveaway. 
412.583.5852.
Parents, Families, and Friends of Lesbians and Gays (PFLAG) 
Open House. Dowd Room, University Center. Come learn about 
Pittsburghs chapter of PFU\G. 2 pm Refreshments will be served.
The Barber of Seville. Benedum Center. 6 pm. $16-$115. 
412.456.6666.
The National Coming Out Dance: Dirty Pop." Highlander 
Rotunda (Resnik House). The theme of the dance will be 
Andy Warhols pop art. 9 pm.
The Eagles. Mellon Arena. 8 pm. $47.25, $89.25, 
$157.50. For tickets, call 412.323.1919 or order online 
at Tickemaster.com.
International Festival Lecture: Money Images: The Cultural 
Iconography of Currency. McConomy Auditorium. 1 pm.
Wind Ensemble. Denis Colwell, conductor. Carnegie Music 
Hall. 3 pm. $5.
Oktoberfest. Providence Heights Castle, Allison Park. 1 to 6 pm. 
Adults, $20; young adults, $15; youth, $8. 412.635.5401. 
www.divineprovidenceweb.org. bbrumml @juno.com.
Salsa Lessons with Linda Danza. Tuesdays from 8 to 9 pm 
and 9:30 to 10:30 pm. UC Aerobics Room. $30 for 
CMU, $35 for others. To sign up, contact 
colohan@cmu. edu.
Habla Conmigo: Tertulias de Habla Hispana. Tuesdays with 
Veronica, 4 to 6 pm, Skibo Coffeehouse; Wednesdays 
with Alberto, 4 to 6 pm, BH235A; Thursdays with 
WenShu, 6 to 8 pm, Porter Hall 226B.
Alpha. UC Chapel. Every Thursday at 7:30 pm.
AB Films Meeting. Plaid Room (located above Skibo 
Coffeehouse). Every Monday at 5:30 pm.
Roger Barbour Jazz Quartet: Roger Barbour - trumpet, 
Horace Turner - keyboard, Raynard Ford - saxophone and 
flute, John Smith - drums. Crawford Grill, 2141 Wylie 
Avenue. Every Friday from 6 to 8 pm. 412.471.1565.
Jun-Nguyen-Hatsushiba  Matrix 2003. Regina Gouger 
Miller Gallery. Tuesday-Sunday, 11:30 am to 5 pm. 
Through October 12. 412.268.3618.
Lutheran Student Fellowship. First Trinity EvangelicalLutheran Church, 535 N. Neville Street. Every Sunday 
at 11 am.
Sahaja Yoga Meditation. Doherty Hall 1117. 8 to 9 pm. Free.
Phantom Fright Nights. Kennywood Amusement Park. 6 pm to 
midnight. $17.50 at Kennywood; buy in advance at 
Blockbuster Video and save $3. Through October 25.
412.461.0500. www.phantomfrightnights.com.
VOX 
POPULI.
THE OFFICIAL VOICE 
OF THE OFFICIAL VOICE.
SUBMIT TO VOX POPULI.
send your word junk to 
tartan@andrew. emu. edu
devour your balls
1-800-D1AL-A-BUM
Your father 
shouldve shot 
it in an 
Afghan., unless 
your name is 
liberal monkey.
sleep is for 
the weak.
^t/j
I thought that might 
look suspicious, but 
then I realized CMU 
was suspicious.
pillbox. 6 October 2003.1

---------------------------------------------------

Jeff Cullers/Photo Editor
Human nature: Last weekend, CFA junior Bill Schott and Pitt student Tom Weinrich shared 
The Frame. Weinrich's works, including Yongbyon, above, deal with themes of nature and uni
versal human feelings like frustration, isolation, and the desire to escape.
