Carnegie Mellons student newspaper since 1906
PILLBOXSPORTSSCITECH
thetartan.org
@thetartan
September 8, 2014
Volume 109, Issue 3
CMU launches global brain initiative
BRADEN KELNER
Editor-in-Chief
Carnegie Mellon is looking 
to ?nd out how the brain affects human behavior through 
its latest initiative, BrainHub.
On Aug. 26, the university 
announced the launch of BrainHub during a discussion with 
faculty and research partners. 
The university stated in a press 
release that it will work with a 
variety of home and international partners to create tools 
to study how the brain and human behavior are linked.
The initiative aims to bring 
insight into a variety of areas 
related to the brain, including 
cognition, learning and perception, and brain disorders 
like Parkinsons disease, according to the release.
As an initiative, [BrainHub] seeks to link people who 
are connected with different 
parts of campus who may or 
may not in some cases have 
been previously engaged in 
research related to neuroscience, brain science  to try 
and bring their expertise to 
bear on questions that are 
relevant to brain function, 
said Nathan Urban, interim 
provost and Dr. Frederick A. 
Schwertz distinguished professor of life sciences.
For example, a person interested in engineering may 
be applying a data analysis 
process in an electrical engineering context, but may be 
able to apply that process to 
answer questions about the 
brain, Urban said.
Key ?rst steps of the initiative will be to develop better 
tools for recording neuron activity and properties, as well 
as computational tools and 
approaches for better analyzing and understanding the 
link between what the brain 
is doing at a speci?c time as it 
yields various behaviors, according to the release.
The belief is that there 
are people at Carnegie Mellon who have developed these 
kinds of technologies in one 
application area, and we want 
to understand how they can 
be leveraged in another application area, Urban said.
As part of the initiative, 
Carnegie Mellon said university deans plan to recruit 10 
or more new faculty members 
specializing in the brain sciences in various departments 
and establish new sources of 
ongoing support for graduate students and postdoctoral 
fellows, according to the release.
To jumpstart the new initiative, Carnegie Mellon has 
secured $75 million of initial commitments over the 
next ?ve years from various 
funders, including the Hillman Foundation, RK Mellon 
Foundation, Dietrich Foundation, and Kris Gopalakrishnan, the co-founder of business consulting company 
Infosys, among others. 
The National Institutes 
of Health and the National 
Science Foundation also represent a large portion of the 
funding, according to Urban.
Notable partnerships for 
the BrainHub initiative include Sun Yat-sen Univesrity 
in Guangzhou, China for its 
work with Alzheimers and 
autism, the University of Warwick in Coventry, England for 
its specialty in digital health, 
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
News Editor
Although many students 
grieved at the loss of the Panther Hollow Inn, a local bar, 
over the summer, they may 
now have something else to 
look forward to: Winthorpe 
Valentine, LP, which bought 
4611 Forbes Ave. after it was 
sold last year, has ?led plans 
with the Department of City 
Planning to put a Chipotle 
Mexican Grill in the former 
bars location.
Chipotle Mexican Grill, 
which last year celebrated its 
25-year anniversary, serves a 
variety of Mexican-inspired 
foods, including tacos and 
burritos.
It was announced in May 
2013 that Panther Hollow 
Inn, known by most students 
as PHI, would close after the 
end of the spring 2014 semester. Winthorpe Valentine, 
LP bought PHI from former 
owner Eugene DePasquale in 
June 2014 for $850,000; the 
bar closed for the last time in 
the early hours of June 1.
When it was announced 
that PHI was closing last 
year, The Tartan reported, 
students mourned the loss 
of what then-Student Body 
President Will Weiner (DC 
13) called one of the few 
unique CMU hangout spots. 
Within days, students had 
garnered 750 signatures on a 
change.org petition to keep 
PHI open.
Some students, however, 
welcome the change.
Im all for it, said Jamie 
Rupert, a senior decision science major. The only thing 
is that PHI was small. I hope 
theyre planning to add more 
space.
According to the ?led 
plans, the restaurant will 
open for business on Jan. 1, 
2015, after a period of construction that began over a 
month ago, on Aug. 1. The 
plans include a new second ?oor area, part of a 
725-square-foot addition to 
the space, and various renovations to the walls, ?oor, 
and bathroom of the 
building.
Other students are more 
ambivalent.
Theres already a Chipotle 30 seconds from my house, 
so it doesnt really matter 
for me, said Brian Lee, a junior economics and statistics 
major.
Vira Shao, a junior Chinese studies and psychology 
double major, had her doubts 
about the upcoming Chipotle. Im happy I dont have 
to walk all the way down to 
Chipotle, but Im pretty ambivalent, Shao said. Heres 
one thing: I think that from a 
business standpoint, theyre 
making a very poor choice. 
Because yes, that Chipotle 
will recoup a lot of money really, really quickly, but alcohol sells more. And theyre 
going to have to renovate the 
hell out of that place because 
its a franchise. You cant just 
have Chipotle food in a PHIesque bar; it doesnt work like 
that.
Jeremy Applebaum, a 
junior chemistry major, although he said he, too, was 
ambivalent on the issue, 
hesitated to embrace the new 
Chipotle. 
Its just going to encourage CMU students to be really lazy and never leave the 
area. At least encourage them 
to walk ?ve minutes down 
Forbes to get Chipotle, Applebaum said.
The Chipotle at 4611 
Forbes will join several other locations, including one 
in Oakland at 3619 Forbes 
Ave., another in East Liberty 
at 5986 Centre Ave., and 
one in Shadyside at 4800 
Baum Blvd.
Chipotle coming soon to Forbes
Abhinav Gautam/Staff Photographer
The former Panther Hollow Inn, at 4611 Forbes Ave., is scheduled to 
be replaced by a Chipotle Mexican Grill on Jan. 1. 
See BRAIN, A3
Architects chosen for Tepper quadrangle
According to 
the ?led plans, 
the restaurant 
will open 
for business 
on Jan. 1, 
2015 after 
a period of 
construction... 
BRENT HEARD
Senior Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellon announced last Wednesday that 
the university has selected 
an architectural ?rm to design the gateway building 
for the new David A. Tepper 
Quadrangle. The Santa Monica-based ?rm Moore Ruble 
Yudell Architects & Planners 
have been commissioned to 
design the building, part of a 
large expansion of campus.
The building was described 
in a university press release as 
being 295 thousand square 
feet and located on a 4.5 acre 
plot on Forbes Avenue.
Robert Dammon, dean of 
the Tepper School of Business, 
described the building as one 
which will house not just the 
Tepper school, but a number 
of university-wide activities, 
explaining that, the idea is 
to try and provide an environment that draws faculty and 
students in from all across 
campus for both social and 
intellectual connections.
Dammon emphasized the 
presence of collaborative 
spaces for students, and said 
that this building and the anticipated four or ?ve additional buildings planned for the 
Tepper Quadrangle are going 
to promote innovation and 
entrepreneurship at Carnegie 
Mellon.
Bob Reppe, Director of 
Design for Carnegie Mellon, 
framed the Tepper Quadrangle as being part of the universitys overall expansion. The 
idea is as we grow campus 
across Forbes, we will be creating a gateway, Reppe said. 
He added that Forbes is to be 
the main street of campus, 
and the new building will help 
with moving Tepper from the 
edge of campus to the center 
of campus.
The Tepper Quadrangle 
will be where the Morewood 
parking lot is currently located, and is being funded by 
a $67 million donation from 
David Teppers charitable organization, $201 million of 
university money, and various 
other smaller donations. At 
the time of the donation, Tepper said in a university press 
release, CMU has a long history of providing the world 
with innovative thinkers and 
the establishment of a true 
hub for entrepreneurship will 
help create the next generation of global leaders.
Dammon recalled that the 
Quadrangle is something 
that the Tepper school has 
been trying to do for a number of years now. Talks began under previous dean Ken 
Dunn around 2007, according 
to Dammon. Finally were 
able to put together the major 
sources of support, Dammon 
explained, referencing the 
donation from David Tepper, 
support from the university, 
and fundraising efforts.
The gateway building will 
contain an entrepreneurship center, a Technology Enhanced Learning facility from 
the Eberly Center, a new dining space, ?tness center, a 600 
-seat auditorium  making it 
the largest on campus  as 
well as a university welcome 
center. The building will also 
of?cially house the Simon Initiative. President Suresh  
believes that we need a welcome center located prominently on Forbes Ave, Repp 
said.
Dammon said that the 
building will allow us to 
increase the size of our undergraduate business program, from the current entering freshman class of 85 to 
around 140 students by 2018.
Many have raised concerns 
about parking availability in 
Courtesy of Ralph Horgan
The gateway building in the Tepper Quadrangle will act as a new front-facing entrance on Forbes Ave.See TEPPER, A3
Abhinav Gautam/Staff Photographer
University President Subra Suresh spoke about Carnegie Mellons plan to work across disciplines and across the world to better understand the human brain. 
Prepare for the upcoming BOC and TOC  B Section
Using big data for brain research  A4Womens soccer team excels  A10Boyhood captures coming of age  C6

---------------------------------------------------

A2  thetartan.org/news The Tartan  September 8, 2014
NEWS IN BRIEFStudents get involved at Activities Fair
WEATHER
Underage Drinking
Aug. 29, 2014
University Police were summoned to Roselawn Terrace in 
response to a noise complaint. 
When they arrived, of?cers 
con?scated and disposed of 
alcohol and cited 14 Carnegie 
Mellon students for underage 
drinking. Of?cers also cited 
two more students for furnishing alcohol to minors. 
Underage Drinking
Aug. 30, 2014
A Carnegie Mellon security 
of?cer on patrol summoned 
University Police and CMU 
EMS after ?nding an intoxicated student on Margaret 
Morrison Street. The student 
was given medical attention and cited for underage 
drinking.
Harassment
Aug. 30, 2014
After a man approached 
her on Forbes Avenue and 
asked for her phone number, 
a hesitant female student 
instead provided her email 
address. Later, the student 
received a lewd image of the 
nude male, and subsequently 
?led a report with University 
Police.
Public Drunkenness, 
Underage Drinking
Aug. 30, 2014
A University Police of?cer 
on patrol found two intoxicated individuals on Forbes 
Avenue, and summoned additional of?cers and CMU EMS. 
Both individuals were identi?ed as Duquesne University 
students, at which point city 
medics were summoned to the 
scene to assist. Of?cers issued 
a citation for underage drinking and public drunkenness in 
response to the incident.
Camera Theft
Sept. 1, 2014
University Police were 
summoned to the fourth ?oor 
of the College of Fine Arts after a student reported that her 
camera was stolen between 
Aug. 29 and Sept. 1. The victim had left the $1,400 Cannon digital camera inside a 
bag under the desk of her studio on the fourth ?oor. This 
investigation is ongoing.
De?ant Trespass
Sept. 2, 2014
A University Police of?cer 
conducting a foot patrol of 
the Jared L. Cohon University Center found a juvenile 
non-Carnegie Mellon af?liate sleeping in the basement. 
The male was identi?ed as 
a Brashear High School student with truancy issues. 
Police called the high school 
students parents and issued 
him a de?ant trespass notice, 
which prohibits him from returning to Carnegie Mellon 
owned or leased property.
Bicycle Theft
Sept. 4, 2014
A Carnegie Mellon student 
?led a report with University 
Police after his bicycle was stolen between noon and 2 p.m. 
outside of the Gates-Hillman 
Complex. Video footage of the 
area has given police a visual 
description of the suspect. 
This investigation is ongoing.
Campus Crime & Incident Reports
Abhinav Gautam/Staff Photographer
The fall Activities Fair took place last Wednesday on the College of Fine Arts lawn. Students walked through rows of student organizations on the 
sunny afternoon and signed up for the clubs that interested them.  
Source: www.weather.com
FEATURE PHOTO
President Subra Suresh 
announced to the campus community via email 
on Friday that the university is launching a search 
for provost and a marketing 
and communications vice 
president.
Currently, Nathan Urban, 
Dr. Frederick A. Schwertz 
distinguished professor of life 
sciences, holds the position 
of interim provost. 
The provost is the universitys chief academic of?cer 
that reports directly to the 
president. 
The provost plays an important role in developing 
cross-departmental collaboration, linking the universitys campuses, and interfacing with global partners, 
according to the email.
A search advisory committee was created  led by Farnam Jahanian, vice president 
for research, and Michael 
Murphy, vice president for 
campus affairs  with a goal 
of making the ?nal appointment in the spring and a start 
date for the new provost of 
July 1, 2015.
President Suresh also said 
that Thomas Mattia, a senior 
executive at public relations 
?rm Edelman, will serve as interim marketing and communications vice president until 
the search is complete. Based 
upon recommendations during President Sureshs listening tours, Carnegie Mellon 
worked with Edelman for the 
company to provide recommendations to the university 
for strengthening its brand 
and communications, according to the email. Edelman recommended that the 
university create this new 
position, which many other 
research universities already 
have.
The vice president will 
oversee all marketing and 
communications at Carnegie 
Mellon, a function that is currently run by the universitys 
Advancement division, according to the email. 
President Suresh said 
moving the function will allow the Advancement division to focus more on fundraising and global alumni 
engagement.
President Suresh announces leadership searches
Global learning conference meets at CMU
The Global Learning 
Council met face-to-face for 
the ?rst time on Sept. 45 
at Carnegie Mellon and the 
University of Pittsburgh.
The Global Learning 
Council, which is chaired 
by Carnegie Mellon President Subra Suresh, was announced in tandem with 
the Simon Initiative in November 2013 to coordinate 
stakeholders across various 
areas such as education and 
business to promote learning through technology, according to Carnegie Mellons 
homepage.
During its ?rst meeting, 
the council identi?ed two areas of action for the council 
to improve technology-based 
learning, posted to the councils website.
The ?rst action item includes creating criteria and 
evidence for best learning 
practices in the design of 
learning environments, 
continuous improvement, 
and adoption of new methods and technologies, according to the post. The 
action item responds to a 
problem identi?ed by the 
council: Educators do not 
have trusted sources to 
promote learning through 
technology.
For its second action item, 
the council aims to create a 
way to share learning data 
to combat the fact that organizations gather large 
amounts of data for sharing 
purposes, but do not have a 
standard way for sharing it.
The council plans to present a draft of a document detailing these action items in 
the spring to the Association 
of American Universities and 
the Association of Public and 
Land Grant Universities, according to the councils website.
Presentation of the Presidents CabinetSergeant at Arms elections Finance Committee Chair elections 
STUDENT SENATE MEETING MINUTES
FRIDAY
High / Low
74 / 51
SATURDAY
High / Low
65 / 47
SUNDAY
High / Low
49 / 49
TUESDAY
High / Low
83 / 61
WEDNESDAY
High / Low
86 / 71
THURSDAY
High / Low
77 / 56
Elena Karras, senior chemical engineering and biomedical 
engineering double major, ran 
for the Senate vacancy in the 
College of Engineering. Karras 
was elected to the position.
Compiled by
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
Compiled by
BRADEN KELNER
Vacancy elections: Dietrich College 
Student Body President 
and senior electrical and 
computer engineering and 
business administration 
double major Ian Glasner 
presented his cabinet to Student Senate. Senior information systems major Andrew 
Schwartz is constitutional 
advisor; junior public policy 
and management major JR 
Marshall is chief of staff; senior communication design 
major Sam Ahmed is public relations secretary; and 
junior information systems 
major Jake Correa is chief 
technology officer. Senators 
are not eligible to be on the 
cabinet.
Vacancy elections: Carnegie Institute of Technology 
Both newly elected senators, Karras and He, ran for 
Finance Committee Chair. The 
Finance Committee Chair position was vacant after fourthyear architecture major Travis 
Rozich resigned, as he is studying in Sweden this semester. 
Landon He was elected to the 
position of Finance Committee 
Chair.
There was one Senate vacancy in the Dietrich College 
of Humanities and Social Sciences. Srishti Jain, a sophomore economics and statistics 
major, and junior statistics 
and decision science double 
major Landon He, both gave 
speeches and ran for the position. Landon He was elected 
to the position.
Corrections & Clari?cations
The article Dining offers extended hours, healthier 
options in the Aug. 25 edition of The Tartan originally 
misstated the hours of the Exchange. The Exchange is 
open from 8 a.m.8:30 p.m. Monday through Thursday, from  8 a.m.6:00 p.m. on Friday, and from 9:30 
a.m.2:30 p.m. on Saturday. 
The Senate body voted 
to table Sergeant at Arms 
elections to the next General Body Meeting. The Sergeant at Arms is a Senator 
or member-at-large who 
performs administrative and 
logistical duties to prepare 
for each weeks General 
Body Meeting.

---------------------------------------------------

September 8, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/news  A3
Oxford Universitys International Brain Mechanics and 
Trauma Lab and the Indian 
Institute of Science, which has 
a brain institute initiative of its 
own, according to the Carnegie Mellon release. Carnegie 
Mellon will also work with 
long-time collaborators at the 
University of Pittsburgh.
In 2011, Carnegie Mellon 
partnered with Sun-Yat-sen 
University to create a joint 
graduate and engineering 
program, the Joint Institute of 
Engineering in China. Carnegie Mellon and Sun Yat-sen 
celebrated the launch of the 
program in late 2012. In July, 
Carnegie Mellon signed a 
memorandum of understanding with the University of 
Warwick for a $10 million collaboration in data collection, 
analysis, and processing.
Urban said the short-term 
goals of the partnerships are 
to identify common areas of 
interest to develop further.
There was a strong desire 
to have mechanisms for establishing these kinds of [connections among universities] and 
creating these kinds of joint 
projects, and we want to let 
the faculty who are engaged 
in this, drive that in terms of 
what directions they take, 
Urban said.
Carnegie Mellons move to 
create new tools and methods 
to further study the brain is 
part of a larger trend of university research regarding the 
brain. In April 2013, President Barack Obama unveiled 
the Brain Research through 
Advancing Innovative Neurotechnologies (BRAIN) Initiative, a government initiative 
to better understand the mind 
and uncover new ways to cure, 
prevent, and treat brain disorders. As part of the initiative, 
the government said it would 
provide approximately $100 
million in investments through 
various government organizations for scientists to acquire 
needed tools for research.
In response to the initiative, many universities have 
begun their own brain research initiatives. 
For example, the University of California, San Diego 
in May 2013 introduced the 
Center for Brain Activity Mapping to develop new tools for 
recording the activities of neurons in the brain and to conduct brain-mapping experiments. 
In June, the state of California provided $2 million 
in funding from its $156 million 2014-15 state budget to 
jumpstart the universitys research in brain-mapping. The 
funding was Californias ?rst 
allocation from a statewide research grant program known 
as the California Blueprint for 
Research to Advance Innovations in Neuroscience (CalBRAIN). Cal-BRAIN is a direct 
response by the state of California to President Obamas 
initiative.
Urban said that Carnegie 
Mellons BrainHub initiative is 
unique from other university 
initiatives because of Carnegie Mellons international 
partnerships and its focus on 
drawing upon people in various disciplines.
Theres a lot of focus for 
us in trying to bring in people 
who are from, say, computer 
science or engineering into the 
fold. We really think ... theres 
a lot of opportunity for pushing the ?eld forward rapidly 
by bringing new approaches, 
new technologies, [and] new 
tools to bear, Urban said.
Moore Rubele Yudell selected to design Tepper Quadrangle
BrainHub to bring together brain researchers, universities
BRAIN, from A1
light of the fact that the Tepper Quadrangle will be built 
over the current Morewood 
Gardens parking lot. Ralph 
Horgan, associate vice president for Campus Design & 
Facility Development, however, assured, there will be 
250-space parking structure 
under the building.
Moore Ruble Yudell describes themselves as an of?ce of sixty people, whose 
past projects include buildings for Dartmouth University 
and the University of California Berkeley.
Buzz Yudell, partner at 
Moore Ruble Yudell, said that 
designing the new Tepper 
building is signi?cantly different from other university 
projects hes worked on. You 
dont often ?nd campuses 
when theyre at this pivotal 
moment, Yudell said. From 
a planning view, its not just 
about a single building.
According to Horgan, 
Moore Ruble Yudell was selected because of the ?rms 
design expertise and its speci?c experience with respect 
to cutting-edge business institutes. Horgan added that the 
group was very impressive in 
their organization.
In addition to their core 
team, Moore Ruble Yudell is 
collaborating with an assembled team of consultants for 
this project, ranging from engineering ?rms to landscaping 
designers.
Dammon explained, There 
was a level of comfort with 
them that we didnt have entirely with the other architects, saying, to be honest 
with you, they were the perfect choice.
The building will be LEED 
Gold certi?ed, and is expected 
to be completed in fall 2018. 
Horgan remarked that these 
buildings take a long time, 
and that utilities will be laid 
next May. Construction on the 
buildings foundation will begin the following May.
Reppe indicated that there 
will be outreach sessions in 
preparation for our permitting 
and construction process.
The new building is still in 
the design phase, but Yudell 
emphasized that Carnegie 
Mellons aspirations for the 
Tepper School are fundamental to the planning.
TEPPER, from A1
Abhinav Gautam/Staff Photographer
Tom Insel, Director of the National Institute of Mental Health, spoke about BrainHub, Carnegie Mellons newly 
announced brain research initiative. Kelsey Thompson/Staff Artist

---------------------------------------------------

ROHAN VARMA
Assistant SciTech Editor
Oftentimes, analyzing a 
large system by only looking at its individual parts is a 
hopeless task. 
For example, in team 
sports, individual players 
might not seem to be acting 
rationally in the moment; 
however, over time, the actions make a lot more sense 
in the context of the general 
strategy of the team. With this 
approach in mind, Byron M. 
Yu, assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering, and John P. Cunningham, 
a professor at Columbia University, have developed a new 
strategy to utilize big data 
techniques to help better understand the complex neuronal network in our brains.
In a University press release, Yu said, One of the 
central tenets of neuroscience is that large numbers 
of neurons work together to 
give rise to brain function. 
However, most standard analytical methods are appropriate for analyzing only one 
or two neurons at a time. To 
understand how large numbers of neurons interact, advanced statistical methods, 
such as dimensionality reduction, are needed to interpret these large-scale neural 
recordings.
Current neuroscience research methods are trying to 
locate and analyze signi?cant 
neurons and try and gain 
insight into the entire systems behavior through these 
individuals. 
However, oftentimes there 
is a lot of noise in the data because the neurons display lots 
of behavior that is hard to understand within the scope of 
one single neuron.
Unfortunately, solving this 
problem is not as easy as simply looking at more neurons 
at a time. 
By scaling the investigation from a single neuron 
to a population of neurons, 
having too much data starts 
to become a problem. There 
is so much data from neuronal systems with thousands 
of neurons that it is hard to 
sift through it to get the important information. This is 
why computational big data 
techniques can provide large 
advances to this ?eld.
The speci?c technique that 
Yu and his team used is known 
as dimensionality reduction. 
This is a technique used to 
simplify the many variables 
in a large system to a smaller 
set of explanatory variables. 
In the case of neuroscience, 
the number of variables is 
the number of neurons in the 
system. 
The method is employed 
to characterize many of the 
neurons together so that they 
can be described by a fewer 
set of explanatory variables. 
This works because, while the 
actions of individual neurons 
is hopelessly complicated, 
simpler organizing principles 
may exist in the population as 
a whole.
Dimensionality reduction 
is already being used to help 
understand neuronal systems. As written in Yus paper 
that is published in Nature, a 
group studying a motor system was able to successfully 
employ the technique. The 
A4  thetartan.org/scitech The Tartan  September 8, 2014
CLAIRE GIANAKAS
Staffwriter
As the study of neuroscience becomes increasingly 
prevalent in modern society, 
we are just beginning to understand the many complexities of the brain, namely its 
highly adaptable nature. Researchers from the Center 
for the Neural Basis of Cognition (CNBC), a joint Carnegie Mellon and University of 
Pittsburgh project, have explored this aspect of the brain 
through their research involving neuron response to rapid 
sequences of images.
Carl Olson, a professor of 
biological sciences at Carnegie Mellon and a member 
of the CNBC; Travis Meyer, 
a research associate of neuroscience at the CNBC; and 
Christopher Walker and Raymond Cho of the department 
of psychiatry at the University 
of Pittsburgh examined how 
neurons react to familiar and 
unfamiliar images presented 
in rapid succession.
The researchers showed 
animal and human subjects 
rapid sequences of familiar 
and unfamiliar images and 
monitored the electrical responses of various individual 
neurons in the inferotemporal 
cortex, a section of the brain 
that is crucial for recognizing 
objects, to determine whether the inferotemporal cortex 
neurons followed the rapidly 
changing images better when 
the images were familiar or 
unfamiliar.
The researchers ultimately 
found that subjects neurons 
responded much more strongly and selectively when shown 
familiar images in rapid succession than when shown 
unfamiliar images in rapid 
succession. The research also 
showed that the strong response for familiar images was 
more prevalent in inhibitory 
neurons  neurons that calm 
the brain and restore balance 
 than in excitatory neurons 
 neurons that stimulate the 
brain. You wouldnt expect 
there to be such deep changes in the brain from simply 
making things familiar, said 
Olson in a university press release. We think this may be a 
mechanism the brain uses to 
track a rapidly changing visual 
environment.
In previous research, it 
was established that a subjects neurons respond more 
strongly when shown a single 
unfamiliar image than when 
shown a single familiar image. 
The CNBC study, however, 
was focused on rapid series of 
images  not a singular image 
 which explains the difference in the results.
The concept that repeated 
viewing of an image causes 
neurons to respond to it in a 
weaker manner is called the 
familiarity effect. In the CNBC 
study, researchers noted that 
this effect could be bene?cial, 
not detrimental. The researchers explained that familiarization occurs in the form of a 
truncation. In other words, the 
neuron response is not weaker 
overall; it is simply truncated 
early for familiar images. The 
study suggests that this truncation could make the neuron 
response more selective and 
could allow the neurons to be 
more prepared to respond to 
ensuing images.
Overall, the researchers 
concluded that image familiarization improved the dynamics of the neuron response 
in the inferotemporal cortex. 
They suggest that each image 
triggers a speci?c subset of 
neurons that respond to certain aspects of that image and 
that the enhanced response 
for familiar images could be 
part of the brains mechanism 
for monitoring visual environments that are swiftly changing. They also note that the 
presence of an enhanced response in excitatory neurons 
is important because it suggests that the enhanced effect 
could be transmitted from the 
inferotemporal cortex to other 
areas of the brain.
The research was funded 
by the National Institutes of 
Healths National Eye Institute and the National Institute 
of Mental Health, as well as 
the Pennsylvania Department 
of Healths Commonwealth 
Universal Research Enhancement Program. The study, 
titled Image familiarization 
sharpens response dynamics 
of neurons in inferotemporal 
cortex, is published online by 
Nature Neuroscience.
Courtesy of Carl Olson
In a CNBC study, test subjects were trained to look at these images until they became familiar.
Courtesy of Carl Olson
The locations on the back of the scalp where visual areas gave strong electrical responses to familiar images.
Subjects 
neurons 
responded more 
strongly and 
selectively when 
shown familiar 
images in rapid 
succession.
Neurons respond strongly to stream of familiar images
Dimensionality reduction helps neuroscience studies
PUGWASH COLUMNZMapp distribution is debated
SKYE TOOR
Special to The Tartan
The recent Ebola outbreak 
was as much of a shock to 
medicine as it was to political 
discussion. ZMapp, the highly 
experimental drug developed 
by Mapp Biopharmaceutical 
Inc. and tested in monkeys, 
is the only known combatant 
to the disease. According to 
an article in USA Today, 100 
percent of monkeys in a Canadian study were cured of 
Ebola after being treated with 
ZMapp. 
However, just because we 
have a drug doesnt mean we 
have a de?nite cure. In total, 
seven doses of ZMapp have 
been given to humans; out of 
these seven, two did not survive  a Liberian doctor and 
a Spanish priest. In hindsight, 
ZMapp is not a fully viable 
cure  or even treatment  
for Ebola. Although it worked 
in monkeys, ZMapp alone 
cannot sustain humans for 
certain. 
Without having had any 
human trials, was it right to 
give that drug out? What does 
this say about American-funded medication? Is it our responsibility to distribute what 
we know or save our own? 
Heres what a few Carnegie 
Mellon students think.
When we were ?rst learning about AIDS, or GRID 
(Gay-Related Immune De?ciency, later Gay Residual 
Immune Disorder) as it was 
called at the time, a group of 
scientists went to Africa to 
collect data and perform a 
few experiments. The experiments were unsuccessful, but 
the data that was brought 
back helped form the next 
10 years of AIDS research. Is 
obtaining useful data worth 
risking the health of others? If 
a disease is fatal, does testing 
create any risk at all?
There are three options: 
We can give this drug to 
Americans and collect data, 
we can give this drug to west 
Africans and collect data, or 
we can do nothing. The social 
implications of each option 
are enormous. If the drug 
works and we try to keep it in 
the United States, the headlines could read Western life 
comes ?rst: Ebola drug to be 
kept in U.S., and both U.S.-
based drug companies and 
the United States itself lose 
credibility as a foreign power. 
If we keep it in the United 
States but the drug doesnt 
work, nothing happens. If the 
drug works and we take it to 
Africa, the press is good  
but if the drug doesnt work, 
and we take it to Africa, the 
headlines could read Africa as U.S. guinea pig: U.S. 
pharma to start human trials 
on Africans, and the U.S. not 
only loses credibility, but is 
no longer welcome in many 
foreign markets. Ultimately, 
though, if we do nothing in 
the event of an outbreak, the 
implications are more than 
just social. A public distrust 
of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is less of 
a concern than any idea that 
science no longer deserves 
funding. A world where scientists fail to produce a perfect 
solution is much better than 
a world where scientists can 
no longer receive suf?cient 
funding because businesses, 
venturists, and agencies think 
that even when the scienti?c 
community is funded, it is too 
insular to share its ?ndings. 
The impact of doing nothing 
is actively harmful to the future of science funding: No 
action now could leave the 
possibility of action in the future at risk. 
Student Pugwash is a nonadvocacy, educational organization that discusses the implications of science. This article 
is a summary of last weeks 
discussion on Ebola and experimental drugs.
Alison Chiu/Staff Artist
Courtesy of Byron Yu
Byron Yu is an assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering and biomedical engineering and a member of the Center for the 
Neural Basis of Cognition.
See DATA, A5
Neurons display 
lots of behavior 
that is hard to 
understand 
within the scope 
of one single 
neuron.

---------------------------------------------------

September 8, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/scitech  A5
HOW THINGS WORKTattoos are inflammations 
BROOKE KUEI
SciTech Editor
If youre thinking about 
getting a tattoo, you might 
want to learn about the science behind the art before 
you make your ?nal decision. 
While on the outside, a tattoo 
is a beautiful and symbolic 
creation, on the inside, it is actually the result of a perpetual 
in?ammatory process.
Tattoos have been used as 
a form of self-expression for 
millennia. According to neuroscientist Claudia Aguirre in 
a TED-Ed video titled What 
makes tattoos permanent?, 
the earliest evidence of body 
ink was found on a Peruvian 
mummy from 6,000 BCE. 
To add even more history to 
this tradition, the tattoo machine was invented in the late 
1800s, its design based on 
Thomas Edisons engraving 
machine.
Today, one look around 
campus can reveal a variety 
of different tattoo designs, 
colors, and types of people 
sporting them. With the independence of life at college, 
whos to stop you from getting 
one, too?
Maybe all you care about 
is whether or not it will hurt, 
but there is a lot more that 
can be learned about the tattooing process. Although humans shed 40,000 skin cells 
per hour, the TED-Ed video 
explains that tattoos remain 
permanent because they are 
not on the epidermis, but 
rather inside a second layer of 
skin: the dermis. 
A tattoo machine punctures the skin continuously 
with a needle, depositing 
ink into the dermis, which is 
made up of collagen ?bers, 
nerves, glands, blood vessels, 
and more.
Whenever the needle 
penetrates the skin  which 
could be up to 3,000 times per 
minute  it causes a wound 
which alerts the body to begin an in?ammatory war to 
?ght the intruding tattoo ink. 
White blood cells known as 
lymphocytes form the ?rst 
line of defense; however, most 
of the pigmentation particles 
are too large for them to ?ght. 
Next, a different type of white 
blood cell  macrophages  
come in and eat up the pigmentation particles. Some of 
these macrophages will carry 
the dye back to the lymph 
nodes, but many will simply 
remain in the dermis  dye 
and all  forever suspending your angel wings, Chinese 
character, or lovers name in 
the second layer of skin.
In addition to existing inside macrophages, some ink 
particles simply ?oat eternally in the gel-like matrix of 
the dermis. Still, others are 
eaten by dermal cells called 
?broblasts, which remain in 
the dermis for their entire life 
cycles. Even when ?broblasts 
die, they get taken up by new 
dermal cells which hold both 
the old cell and the dye within 
it.
How, then, can tattoos be 
removed? According to Anne 
Laumann, professor of dermatology at Northwestern 
University, the best method of 
tattoo removal is laser treatment. In laser treatment, light 
targets a speci?c color and 
breaks up the ink particles 
of that color. By breaking up 
the ink particles, laser treatment creates particles that 
are small enough to be carried 
away by white blood cells. Unfortunately, this method does 
not always remove the entire 
tattoo.
Besides the tattooing 
process and tattoo removal, 
there is also a science to the 
ink used for tattoos. Traditional pigments were made 
from ground up minerals and 
carbon black, but todays pigments can sometimes also 
include industrial organic 
pigments, vegetable-based 
pigments, or plastic-based 
pigments.
While the composition of 
your tattoo ink will inherently vary based on where you 
get your tattoo done, there 
are common compositions 
for various colors of ink. For 
example, black ink often includes carbon, logwood, or 
iron oxide; brown contains 
ochre; red has cinnabar (HgS) 
or cadmium red (CdSe), 
which are both known for toxicity. Consequently, it would 
be in your best interest to ask 
your tattoo artist about the 
chemicals they use in their 
inks to avoid allergic reactions or phototoxic reactions.
It has often been said that 
science is an art, but the biological and chemical intricacies behind tattoos suggests 
that art is a science, too.
Michelle Wan/Art Editor
Kids brains absorb majority of energy
Researchers at Northwestern University have found 
that during childhood, the 
brain absorbs most of a kids 
energy. Since this leaves less 
energy for the rest of the body, 
compared to other animals, 
even other primates, human 
children take much longer to 
grow in body size.
Scientists have been considering this idea for decades, 
but were unable to come up 
with hard data to verify the 
theory. Positron emission tomography (PET) imaging, a 
method that estimates the 
brains energy consumption, 
is risky for use on children. 
Consequently, scientists used 
an older dataset of PET scans 
on 29 children who were suspected of having a brain disorder at the time, but later 
turned out to be healthy. On 
plotting trends, the graphs 
indicated that the hypothesis 
of slow body growth due to 
energy consumption by the 
brain was indeed true.
Source: Science News
Malaria diagnosed using magnets
Researchers at the Nanyang Technological University 
in Singapore have found that 
magnets can detect the presence of malaria before symptoms appear. 
When the technique was 
tested on mice, magnetic 
sensors were able to spot imperceptible levels of the malaria parasites in a matter of 
minutes.
The device relies on the 
fact that red blood cells are 
magnetic due to the presence of hemoglobin, which is 
an iron-based protein. When 
malarial parasites enter the 
blood stream, they feed on 
the hemoglobin, converting 
it into nanocrystals called hemozoin, which boost the magnetization of the red blood 
cells, making it easy to detect 
the presence of the parasites.
Source: Science News
Message transmitted between two brains
Scientists were able to use 
technology to allow the transmission of messages between 
the brains of two people at a 
distance of 5,000 miles apart 
without performing any invasive surgery.
Heres how it worked. 
Electrodes were attached to 
the scalp of one subject to 
record the electrical currents 
in the brain while it had a 
speci?c thought. At the other 
end, a computer brain interface was used to map a neural 
code for binary symbols, by 
making the subject perform 
a certain action for a one and 
a different one for a zero, and 
capturing the electrical signals from each using electroencephalography (EEG). The 
message from the sender was 
encoded into binary and sent 
to the recipients visual cortex 
as a string of ones and zeros 
in their peripheral vision. This 
binary string was then decoded to get the actual words of 
the message.
Source: CNET News
Satellite can see through ?re smoke 
While mapping major ?res 
by satellite imaging is certainly desirable, in practice, it has 
been hard to accomplish due 
to the smoke obscuring the 
?re. However, the new WorldView-3 satellite from the company Digital Globe has been 
equipped with high resolution 
short-wave infrared (SWIR) 
sensors that can remove most 
of the smoke from the image.
The SWIR sensor can 
detect up to eight different wavelengths of infrared 
light, each of which has different advantages. While one 
wavelength can see through 
smoke, another can see manmade materials more sharply. 
When the data from all eight 
wavelengths is combined, it 
reveals a detailed heat map of 
where the ?re is burning most 
intensely.
Source: Wired
Low costs catalyze space tourism
Did you want to be an astronaut when you were younger? 
Well now, with the increasing 
prevalence of space tourism, 
you can ful?ll your dream for 
a low price of $75,000. World 
View Enterprise, a veteran 
space company, is developing high altitude balloons that 
can carry eight people and 
will be making trips to space 
by the end of 2015. The ?vehour trip will give passengers 
a birds-eye view of the edges 
of Earth while they enjoy a 
meal and open bar.  While it is 
still in the test phases, there is 
already interest from people 
around the world. 
The space tourism industry is one of the fastest growing luxury markets, increasing 
50% faster than the average 
luxury good. Considering 
that previous space tourism 
ventures have cost upwards 
of $50 million, the increasing popularity can largely be 
attributed to the lower ticket 
prices.
Source: USA Today
Archer?sh found to be skillful hunter
Archer?sh, aptly named 
for their ability to shoot jets 
of water at insects perched 
on leaves and twigs above, 
have recently been found to 
be more skillful than previously thought. Stefan Schuster and Peggy Gerullis of the 
University of Bayreuth in 
Germany trained archer?sh 
to hit targets ranging from 
20 to 60 centimeters high 
and observed the archer?sh 
in action. They found that 
the archer?sh actually made 
intricate adjustments to the 
cross-sections of their mouth 
openings to vary the projection of the water jets they 
were shooting out. This study 
was published in Current 
Biology on Sept. 4.
Source: Science Daily
Compiled By
NIVEDITA CHOPRA
SCITECH BRIEFS
group had gathered data from 
the primary motor cortex, the 
part of the brain associated 
with planning and executing 
movements, during a task 
with 108 different experimental conditions. 
By utilizing dimensionality 
reduction, they were able to 
analyze the massive amount 
of data and surmise that the 
system was actually performing preparatory behavior 
which then led to the movement being executed. 
Looking at an individual 
neuron, this two-step process 
was completely out of grasp. 
Simplifying the model and 
studying the population as a 
whole was integral to the success of the group.With more 
and more data being gathered 
through new technologies 
and advances in neuroscience, computational methods 
may no longer be assistive  
they may become a necessity. 
Yus work is an essential step 
toward bringing the two 
?elds together and it will 
likely have widespread applications throughout neuroscience research.
From DATA, A4Neuroscience made easier

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan is a student newspaper at Carnegie Mellon University, funded in part by the student 
activities fee. It is a weekly publication by students during the fall and spring semesters, printed by 
Trib Total Media. The Tartan is not an official publication of Carnegie Mellon University.
The Editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The 
Tartan Editorial Board. Columns, Editorial Cartoons, and Reviews are the opinions of their 
individual creators. The Tartan Editorial Staff reserves the right to withhold from publication 
any copy it deems unfit.
Letters to the Editor are the opinions of their authors. Letters from within the University community take precedence. Letters intended for publication must be signed and include the authors 
address and telephone number for verification; letters must not exceed 350 words. Authors names 
may be withheld from publication upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject 
any letter. Letters must be submitted by 5 p.m. on the Wednesday before publication by mail or to 
forum@thetartan.org.
FROM THE EDITORIAL BOARD
A6  thetartan.org/forum The Tartan  September 8, 2014
Office: University Center 314
Web: www.thetartan.org
E-mail: contact@thetartan.org
Mail:
The Tartan
Box 119, UC Suite 103 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
On-campus bar may be worthy of consideration
With the closing of Panther Hollow Inn (PHI), known by many 
Carnegie Mellon students as the universitys unof?cial campus bar, the 
campus community is left without a 
nearby popular alcohol-serving establishment. 
This may be a larger issue than 
it initially seems, with the possibility of students having to travel as far 
as Oakland or Shadyside to socialize 
in an alcohol-friendly environment. 
Not only would walking to and attending distant bars at night expose 
students to greater safety risks, it 
may dilute the sense of social community surrounding a nearby campus cultural institution like PHI.
Many peer universities have oncampus pubs where students of legal drinking age can convene in a 
regulated setting to socialize and 
enjoy a bar atmosphere. Massachusetts Institute of Technologys (MIT) 
student-run Muddy Charles Pub, 
for example, prides itself on housing the networking conversations 
of students who have gone on to be 
Nobel laureates or prominent scholars. Harvard University also has a 
student-owned and operated pub, 
the Cambridge Queens Head. With 
the closing of PHI, Carnegie Mellon 
lacks a similar locale for students 
of legal age to relax and socialize. 
The Tartan would like to encourage 
Carnegie Mellon to consider instituting a similar on-campus pub.
There are concerns to be acknowledged regarding the discussion of having a campus bar. However, this may also be an opportunity 
for the university to establish a safer 
and more regulated facility for student drinking.
 For instance, campus bars are 
traditionally strict about how intoxicated patrons can become, and 
Carnegie Mellon has enrollment 
data which contains students birthdays. Using that data, false IDs can 
be detected, and the university can 
ensure that all attending students 
are 21 years or older and can enjoy 
alcohol in a responsible fashion.
Given that the many alternatives 
for students who wish to go to bars 
involve walking into the neighborhoods surrounding campus, and 
drinking in institutions which may 
not police their patrons intoxication 
or interactions very thoroughly, students could be exposed to a greater 
amount of risk now that PHI has 
closed.
A campus bar would be within a 
quick response distance for campus 
police and would be located in a safe 
and typically convenient area for 
members of the campus community. 
Now that PHI no longer exists, students who wish to consume alcohol 
may do so more frequently in such 
settings as dorm and house parties. 
Needless to say, these environments are not regulated and may 
result in dangerous alcohol consumption habits. Additionally, these 
settings dont facilitate the same 
relaxed social setting and networking opportunities that campus 
bars can provide. It might even be 
worthwhile to consider managing a 
campus bar as a valuable, practical 
opportunity for business or management students.
This is not a proposal for the development of a campus bar, but it is 
an idea that should be considered. 
The closing of PHI has left a notable 
gap in Carnegie Mellons campus 
culture. PHI was a close, safe place 
to grab a drink with friends and socialize, and the role of pubs in networking for students and future 
scholars has been well-established, 
hence the presence of these institutions on the campuses of universities like Harvard University and MIT. 
Carnegie Mellon should engage in a 
discussion to consider the possible 
bene?ts and drawbacks of a similar 
institution and determine whether 
pursuing such a project would be 
bene?cial.
U.S. must develop clear strategy for Middle East
JUSTIN YAN 
The Iraq War was a failure in convincing Iraqis that the United States 
could save them from disorder in the 
form of dictatorship, poverty, and 
extremism.
The three threats are entangled, 
and though the ?rst has been somewhat alleviated through American 
efforts, the effects of dictatorship 
are still widely seen in the form of a 
disorganized and very partisan government. Moreover, 9/11 and the 
Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) 
can be seen as reactions to American involvement in the region, as 
well as to multiple malfunctioning 
governments. Recent events, from 
the beheading of American journalist Steven Sotloff to the unexpected 
re-capture of Mosul by Iraqi and 
Kurdish forces, underline the magnitude of the volatility surrounding 
the terrorist group known as ISIS. 
Moreover, ISIS presents a unique 
conundrum to American foreign 
policy.
Fareed Zakaria, a well-known 
political analyst and former editor 
for Foreign Affairs, wrote an essay 
in the aftermath of 9/11 titled Why 
do They Hate Us? His essay begins 
its narration with the portrayal of 
America in the Middle East during 
the Cold War. Communism, personi?ed by Russia, never quite matched 
the mystical appeal of wealth and 
glory that the United States held 
during this era. How did this reputation deteriorate in the span of less 
than 50 years?
First, the rise of oil and the 
wealth and power that came along 
with it destabilized the Middle 
Easts yearning for modernization 
associated with the United States. 
Due to the Gulf War and the United 
States eagerness to protect its oil 
sources, along with the oil barons 
who controlled the wealth output 
of the Middle East, modernization 
and Americanization became synonymous with inequality and the 
marginalization of Saddam Hussein dissenters, namely the Shiites. 
Moreover, as Hussein gained power, 
the people of Iraq ?ed from Americanization, thus creating the perfect 
environment for radical sentiment.
During the Iraq War, Iraqi sentiment toward the United States was 
mixed. Some praised Americas military involvement, others criticized 
its ineffectiveness, while others still 
harbored anti-American sentiment 
that arose during the Gulf War and 
was exacerbated by Saddam Husseins reign.
In the era after the Iraq War, the 
United States must come up with a 
comprehensive solution for dealing 
with ISIS and the corresponding 
humanitarian issues. As history tells 
us, every action the United States 
executes in the Middle East has a 
strong and often varied reaction, 
fueling a constant feedback system 
that makes the execution of a coherent and effective foreign policy 
even more complicated. American 
foreign policy in the Middle East is 
becoming the worlds most complex 
game of public relations. America 
wants to act as a stabilizing force, 
but without the overexertion of its 
own armed forces, as seen during 
the Iraq War.
One way the United States is 
accomplishing this maneuver is 
through the cooperation with Sunni 
forces. The reason for this relationship is twofold. Not only will it show 
that the Americans can cooperate 
with both Shiites (who had until 
recently, dominated Iraqi politics, 
thanks to United States-backed 
Prime Minister of Iraq Nouri al-Maliki) and Sunni, but also cooperation will cut off the supply of fresh 
recruits to Al Qaeda and ISIS, or 
any future splinter terrorist group 
who recruit young Sunni Muslims. 
The Shiites and Sunnis have been 
deadlocked in con?ict for decades. 
Sunnis dominate many countries in 
population, often forcing the Shiites 
to live impoverished and oppressed.
In Iraq, however, the opposite is 
true, and the fact that the United 
States allowed al-Maliki to install a 
Shiite-dominated government has 
further dented relations with the 
Sunnis. ISIS has won the support 
of the Sunni people, many of whom 
make up the bulk of its ?ghters, by 
appealing to Sunni Pride. The 
United States must do the same. The 
Obama Administration must ?gure 
out a way to help the Sunnis and encourage a new brand of nationalism 
removed from ISIS.
Currently, government forces in 
both Syria and Iraq are led by the 
Assad regime and Shia forces, neither of which holds any appeal for 
local Sunnis. As a result, the key to 
winning over the Sunni does not lie 
in rapid military success, but rather 
in winning on a cultural, ideological 
scale. 
By providing humanitarian and 
political support for the Sunni people, as well as arming, training, and 
providing tactical support for the 
Sunni forces against ISIS, the United 
States may be able to tip the balance 
of power in Iraq.
The United States has already 
come too far to become a bystander 
with no clear plan of action in the 
ongoing Middle East crisis. The nation must be the spark for dialogue 
and a change of the American image  
if it wants to protect its own interests, as well as provide a safe and 
stable environment in the Middle 
East.
Justin Yan(jky@) is a staffwriter for 
The Tartan.
Courtesy of Wikimedia Commons
Last Sunday, nude photographs 
leaked of several high-pro?le female 
celebrities, including Kirsten Dunst, 
Kate Upton, and Jennifer Lawrence. 
The perpetrators were hackers 
who had presumably taken advantage of security vulnerabilities in 
Apples iCloud system. The kneejerk reaction of the public and mainstream media has been to call this a 
scandal. However, the real scandal 
here is not that the pictures exist but 
that their leaking constitutes a gross 
violation of privacy and womens autonomy, as well as an unquestionable 
sex crime.
An encouraging number  of news 
outlets have spoken out in condemnation of the hackers and of the 
victim-blaming usually rampant in 
such cases. Many have jumped in 
with the not-so-helpful advice that 
these celebrities should simply not 
take nudes, thus solving all of their 
problems. Such arguments place 
the bulk of responsibility not on the 
criminals, but on the women exercising their legitimate right to express 
their sexuality however they wish 
and  on a practical level  to store 
personal photos in a place they expect to stay private.
The dont take nudes argument 
is the virtual equivalent of dont 
wear short skirts if you dont want 
to be raped. In addition, as we have 
recently seen with the advent and 
viral phenomenon of anti-rape nail 
polish, buying special nail polish, 
dressing conservatively, and never 
taking suggestive photographs are 
hardly the secret to stopping the real 
perpetrators of sexual crime.
No person  celebrity or otherwise  deserves to have their privacy so callously infringed upon. If 
someone wants to take nude photographs of their own free will and volition, that is their right. Conversely, 
if they dont wish to take nude photographs, they are free to abstain. 
However, when the inevitable 
next round of photographs are 
leaked, and are known to be published without the consent of their 
subjects, we should all take a moment to think.
By seeking out these photographs, by looking at them, we feed 
into the harmful societal practice 
wherein womens bodies are commodi?ed. Instead, we must refuse to 
sacri?ce human dignity for the sake 
of cheap sexual grati?cation and 
a fast food-reminiscent hunger for 
scandal.
Editorial Staff
Editorial Board
RACHEL COHEN *
Publisher
BRADEN KELNER *
Editor-in-Chief
ARIEL HOFFMAIER
Forum Editor 
KATE GROSCHNER *
Contributing Editor
CHLOE THOMPSON
Staffwriter
BRENT HEARD *
Contributing Editor
LAURA SCHERB *
Operations Manager
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
News Editor
BROOKE KUEI
SciTech Editor
JOEY PEISER
Pillbox Editor
MARYYANN LANDLORD
Comics Editor
JONATHAN LEUNG
Photo Editor
MICHELLE WAN
Art Editor
MARTHA PATERSON
Online Editor
MAIRAD PETTIT
Personnel Manager
SWATHI ANAND
Layout Manager
WILL CRICHTON
Systems Manager
JOHN HUO
Advertising Manager
DESIREE XU
Business Manager
JAMES WU
Copy Manager
JASON CHEN
Asst. Photo Editor
NIVEDITA CHOPRA
Asst. Copy Manager
EVAN KAHN
Asst. Copy Manager
ROBERT MARATOS
Asst. Systems Manager
ANNE-SOPHIE KIM
Asst. Layout Manager
BENJAMIN CHANG
Asst. Business Manager
ALVIN MATTHEWS
Asst. News Editor
ROHAN VARMA
Asst. SciTech Editor
XIYU WANG
Asst. Forum Editor
JENNA BODNAR
Asst. Pillbox Editor
EUNICE OH
Asst. Art Editor
SENIOR STAFF 
Carl Glazer, Greg Hanneman, Alan Vangpat
COPY
Lula Beresford-Banker, Francesca Begos, 
Amelia Britton, Gordon Estes, Stephanie Stern
LAYOUT
Udaya Malik, Yong Gun Choe
ADVERTISING
Alison Chiu, Anuva Kulkarni, Kyle Henson
 2014 The Tartan, all rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN: 0890-3107* Denotes executive committee member
Kelsey Thompson/Staff Artist
Nude photographs scandal is a sex crime

---------------------------------------------------

A PERSONS OPINION
September 8, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/forum  A7
JUSTIN MCGOWN
Less than a year ago, Hunt Library 
received renovations that made its 
?rst ?oor a very welcoming place for 
students to work, study, and socialize. The renovations were immensely 
popular and showed a real understanding on the part of the university toward the wants and needs of 
students. Alongside an initiative by 
library staff to be responsive to student suggestions that drew praise 
from this publication, it rendered 
Hunt Library an attractive place.
If you have not yet been to Hunt, 
I recommend you do your best to 
remember that inviting open ?oor 
plan, the wide spaces, the dozens of 
desktop workstations, and the ability to see out both the front and back 
windows at the same time  because 
that has all been taken from you. The 
elimination of popular student spaces 
also extends to the second ?oor, 
where stacks displaced by the IDeATe 
construction have ?lled in the open 
areas where there were once tables, 
chairs, and groups of students doing 
work and having conversations.
As compensation, we have been 
given more silent study space on the 
third ?oor. Expect to wander up there 
while looking for printers, as the 
three given to us after the last round 
of renovations are gone, replaced by 
a single unit.
Of course there are some advantages to the new renovations. The 
basement now has a collection of fabrication spaces  that are only open 
to those who complete semester-long 
intake courses. The basement also 
now has a room painted entirely 
black, which should alleviate the 
constant demand for motion capture 
or psychological torture spaces on 
campus. There is a pair of classrooms 
that you can sit quietly on the periphery of until you determine if the guy 
writing on the whiteboard and talking loudly is teaching a class or just 
being obnoxious. Four of the computers have also survived and been 
tucked into a cramped corner by the 
two remaining printers. One of them 
is situated so that only the person sitting at the computer next door can 
see your screen, perfect for studying 
human anatomy!
The IDeATe program could be a 
useful addition to campus, though 
we wont know for a few years when 
the ?rst people to graduate with the 
associated minors enter the job market. But the administration needs to 
be roundly criticized for the way the 
renovations were handled. Re-renovating a space that had only opened 
a matter of months ago is wasteful 
and inconsiderate of the planning behind a student-centric space. While 
the facilities in the basement seem 
like overall useful additions, even 
with their limited accessibility to the 
larger student body, there is no clear 
reason why the ?rst-?oor classrooms 
needed to be constructed, especially 
when Baker Hall and Porter Hall have 
numerous classrooms that are showing their age and either lack central 
air or rely on window air conditioning units that appear to be older 
than some students. The new Hunt 
classrooms do not offer anything that 
other classrooms do not and serve to 
detract from the utility of the library 
for many students.
The stealth with which the construction was done is also concerning, since this space popular with students was completely reworked over 
the summer while students were not 
around. No of?cial emails went out to 
announce town halls or other forums 
for discussion of the changes; they 
simply happened. Were students consulted about the renovations at all? It 
seems doubtful.
Two of?cial emails have contained 
reference to IDeATe. One of them, 
cosigned by Vice Provost for Design, 
Arts, and Technology Thanassis Rikakis and Dean of University Libraries 
Keith Webster says: The placement 
of IDeATes student facilities in the 
Hunt Library re?ects a growing trend 
for academic libraries to expand 
from a focus on housing collections 
of books and journals to becoming a 
space where students come together 
to work with their peers, interact with 
technology, and access a range of media to create knowledge. If they had 
bothered to ask, they would know we 
were already doing that without the 
aid of walls and a seemingly unnecessary reshuf?ing of content.
Justin McGown (jmcgown@) is a 
staffwriter for The Tartan.
The Tartan is still mourning the loss of PHI, but hopeful for the future of its former home. So we asked,
What would you like to see go into the PHI location besides Chipotle?
Compiled by Justin McGown
Hunt Librarys new IDeATe renovations hurt functionality
Maija Anstine
Viola Performance
Graduate Student
A bar similar to PHI!
Dominique Brych
Mechanical Engineering
First-year
I would like a Chick-fil-A.
Jerry Yang
Business Administration
Sophomore
I would like to have a convenience store near CMU besides 
Entropy. Entropy sells limited 
items but 7-Eleven sells a lot 
more items.
Kalyani Narayan
Biology
First-year
It would be nice to have a Jamba Juice because then we could 
stay hydrated while on the go.
BRADEN KELNER
In a January issue of The Tartan, I 
wrote an article called Fitness trackers more than just a trend. I argued 
that ?tness trackers, like Fitbits line 
of wristbands and other wearable 
technologies, are here to stay and 
will become increasingly popular as 
makers round out their capabilities 
to include more functionality, such 
as the ability to respond to texts or 
speak through the devices. Since 
then, a number of device makers, 
including Samsung and Motorola, 
have announced or launched a variety of smartwatches and trackers.
Now, Im writing again to say 
these devices are too much. After 
purchasing a Pebble smartwatch inNovember, at ?rst I enjoyed screening texts and calls on my wrist. I could 
continue conversations with friends 
in-person while simply ?icking my 
wrist to see incoming noti?cations. 
I could even check the number of 
steps I took through a downloadable 
pedometer with functions similar to 
a ?tness tracker, and scroll through 
my Twitter feed without ever pulling 
my phone out.
After a while, though, I found myself constantly checking my wrist as 
an in?ux of emails, text messages, 
and social media noti?cations went 
straight to my watch. I couldnt read 
a page of a book ef?ciently or remain 
fully immersed in a conversation 
for more than a few minutes before 
my smartwatch called my attention. 
Eventually, I turned off the devices 
bluetooth capabilities so that it only 
told the time. Nine months after I 
purchased the watch, it lies in my 
bedroom uncharged.
Smartwatches and other wearable technologies seem to have been 
developed with the idea that people 
will check their phones less if they 
integrate technology into their daily 
lives in less intrusive ways. After all, 
if a person doesnt have to continually remove their phone from their 
pocket to check it and possibly respond, they should be able to more 
seamlessly screen noti?cations to determine if it is worth interrupting a 
daily activity for.
However, in my experience, these 
devices do just the opposite. By placing noti?cations on a persons wrist, 
smartwatches and other wristbandlike technologies just make the distractions more accessible. They force 
people to feel the buzz of a noti?cation that they would not normally 
feel or take the time to check. With 
the noti?cation at the ready, though, 
theres no reason not to check it. Instead of checking their cell phone 
periodically, people can look to their 
watch every time it buzzes. And if 
rumors of an imminent Apple iWatch 
announcement are true, it seems 
these devices will become a mainstream trend this year  possibly 
even tomorrow  when the tech giant is set to announce new products 
at a press event.
To combat the distractions these 
devices offer, people must learn 
to limit the noti?cations pushed 
to them. Its possible to customize 
which noti?cations go to the watch 
and which only go to the phone 
screen. 
While even limited noti?cations 
can be distracting, fewer pings to the 
wrist can help to keep people in their 
conversations and away from their 
noti?cations. If people limit their 
noti?cations to these devices, they 
can ensure their technology doesnt 
become overwhelming.
Braden Kelner (bik@) is Editor-inChief for The Tartan.
Smartwatches detract from normal life
KYLE HENSON
Corporate tax avoidance has 
become a trendy topic lately, with 
President Obama himself taking the 
time to speak out on the issue a few 
weeks ago. Recently, it was heavily 
publicized with Burger King corporations decision to merge with Tim 
Hortons Inc. and move the corporate headquarters of the new combined company to Canada, rather 
than staying in Miami.
Many liberals, President Obama 
included, have criticized Burger 
Kings decision for demonstrating 
a lack of economic patriotism, of 
course implying that Burger King 
has some sort of duty to stay in the 
United States and compromise its 
pro?ts under a non-competitive 
corporate tax structure because the 
company just owes it to America. 
Unfortunately, what Obama forgets 
is that corporate executives dont 
have a duty to act in the United 
States best interest, but in fact have 
a very different duty, called a ?duciary duty. Thats a fancy way of saying that corporate executives are legally obligated to act in the interest 
of the corporations they work for. In 
fact, corporate executives can and 
have been convicted of crimes for 
not acting in the best interest of the 
shareholders of the corporation.
In other words, if Canadas corporate tax structure makes Burger 
Kings tax bill lower, and therefore 
makes it a more pro?table enterprise, not only is it a permissible 
action for the company to move, 
but its actually the companys legal 
duty. Examining our corporate tax 
structure in comparison to Canadas, it becomes very clear that Burger Kings decision to move its HQ to 
Canada was absolutely correct. 
The United States suffers from 
the highest corporate tax rate among 
industrialized countries, coming in 
at 39 percent. To put that in perspective, Canadas corporate tax 
rate is 15 percent, which has vaulted 
Canada to the spot of sixth most economically free country in the world, 
compared with the United States in 
the 12th spot and declining. The decision to favor a freer economic tax 
structure wasnt an unconscious one 
either. Canada and other countries 
are realizing that they can attract 
more business and investment by 
creating economic freedom. This 
creates more wealth for Canadians 
and makes the country better off.
When we look at the reasons for 
the United States high corporate 
tax rate, we can ?nd the answer in 
a few shocking statistics. General 
Electric regularly has a net positive tax bill, meaning that when all 
is said and done and the taxes are 
calculated, the government is writing GE a check, and not the other 
way around. Similarly, one in nine 
Standard & Poor 500 companies had 
a tax bill of $0 last year, and many 
more companies paid less than the 
39 percent that plagues corporations without the resources to lobby 
and create loopholes. Massive corporations can use their resources 
to warp the tax code in their favor, 
a luxury smaller corporations dont 
have.
Our egregious corporate tax 
structure only serves to further the 
aims of cronyism and it certainly 
runs counter to the aims of economic development. When corporations 
act on their ?duciary duties and 
eventually leave the United States 
for our more competitive neighbors, 
liberals can gripe about economic 
patriotism, but until we reform 
our corporate tax structure, empty 
words wont bring back the prosperity that America once enjoyed.
Kyle Henson (kahenson@) is a staffwriter for The Tartan.
Eunice Oh/Staff Artist
Alison Chiu/Staff Artist
Tyler Park
MCS
Sophomore
It would be nice to have another 
convenience store other than 
Entropy in the campus.
Corporations right to avoid onerous U.S. tax burden 

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

September 8, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/sports  A9
NISHANT RENIWAL
Staffwriter
The summer soccer transfer window of 2014 has ?nally 
slammed shut. Records were 
set by clubs for the amount of 
money spent, as the ?nancial 
superiority of the Barclays 
Premier League was at full 
display. 
The effects of the Union of 
European Football Associationss (UEFA) new Financial 
Fair Play regulations were also 
seen, as the likes of Manchester City, Paris Saint-Germain, 
and Chelsea signi?cantly 
curbed their spending from 
previous years to make up 
for previous losses. So which 
transfers were on paper the 
best of the summer? Which 
ones just do not seem right? 
And which ones were complete shockers? Lets take a 
look.
Best transfers
Chelsea must be given 
plaudits for its acquisition of 
striker Diego Costa and mid?elder Cesc Fbregas. For 
years, since striker Didier 
Drogba left the club, Chelsea 
has lacked a go-to goal scorer, 
especially someone with the 
temperament and competitive 
spirit of current manager Jos 
Mourinho. 
In Costa they now have a 
striker who matches the likes 
of Cristiano Ronaldo and Lionel Messi in scoring rate and 
someone who was instrumental in guiding his previous club, Atltico Madrid, to 
the La Liga title as well as the 
Champions League Final. His 
endless runs, prowess in the 
air, and inability to accept 
defeat is exactly what Chelsea lacked in its strikers, and 
Mourinho has done a good job 
to rectify that. 
Fbregas has a style of play 
that perfectly complements 
defensive mid?elder Nemanja 
Mati

---------------------------------------------------

September 8, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/sports  A10
CARL GLAZER
Senior Staffwriter
Yesterday, the Pittsburgh 
Steelers took on the Johnny 
Footballs, also known as the 
Cleveland Browns, to open 
their 2014 campaign. After 
back-to-back disappointing 
88 ?nishes, the Steelers have 
hopefully ?nished the growing pains stemming from their 
recent major roster turnovers. 
Previously known as a veteran 
defense with an aging offensive line, Pittsburgh has completely rebuilt its front seven 
on defense and focused on 
offensive talent in the draft, 
resulting in a young, energetic team hoping to reverse old 
fortunes.
The biggest youth movement has come in the linebacking core with back-toback ?rst round picks Jarvis 
Jones and Ryan Shazier leading the rebuilt unit. Shazier 
has exceeded all expectations in training camp and is 
already garnering defensive 
rookie-of-the-year buzz before taking a single meaningful snap. Jones showed ?ashes of his pass rush potential 
last year as he grew into the 
starting role, but is looking to 
avoid the sophomore slump 
and step up his pressure.
Another big switch is the 
replacement of 34-year-old 
safety Ryan Clark with former 
Carolina Panther Mike Mitchell, who is entering his prime 
in his sixth season. Several of 
the Steelers issues came from 
the safety position last year, 
as both Clark and Troy Polamalu appeared to have lost 
a step, but attacked with the 
same aggressiveness they had 
in prior years. This risk-taking 
approach by both the players 
and defensive coordinator 
Dick LeBeau resulted in more 
SPORTS COMMENTARYSPORTS BRIEFS
ZEKE ROSENBERG
Staffwriter
The tiny 16-game sample 
and parity of the NFL make 
for some fun randomness 
during the season, but each 
season there is only a handful of true contenders. Based 
on the level of talent on these 
four teams, I believe one of 
them will be holding the 
Vince Lombardi Trophy by 
the  seasons end.
Denver Broncos
The Denver Broncos were 
a very good team last season. 
Despite some of the feeling 
that they beat up on an easy 
AFC and cruised to the Super 
Bowl, they probably ?elded 
the best offense in the history of the league. Even in a 
high-scoring league, they still 
managed to lead the ?eld by a 
comfortable margin. The only 
players of note they lost from 
that offense were receiver 
Eric Decker and running back 
Knowshon Moreno. Decker 
was a product of quarterback 
Peyton Mannings unbelievable season, rather than a 
cause. Receiver Emmanuel 
Sanders has been productive for years in the Steelers 
offense and should replace 
Decker just ?ne. Considering 
the rest of his career, Moreno 
was also only productive due 
to Manning, and running 
back Montee Ball should ?ll 
the gap there after an adequately solid season last year.
The defense, on the other 
hand, was atrocious last year. 
The front seven missed linebacker Von Miller during his 
suspension at the beginning 
of the year and injury at the 
end of it. This team had some 
solid players, but no one truly good. Linebacker Danny 
Trevathan is out for the season, but the Broncos more 
than made up for him in the 
off-season. Defensive end 
DeMarcus Ware is a hall-offame-level pass rusher and, 
should be productive for the 
Broncos even at the end of his 
career. Cornerback Aqib Talib 
was very good for the Patriots 
last year, and will probably 
continue to be so. The Broncos already spun the scoreboard, and with a true NFLlevel defense this year, other 
teams should watch out.
San Francisco 49ers
The San Francisco 49ers 
are tough to make a Super 
Bowl case for. They lost their 
two best pass rushers in linebackers NaVorro Bowman 
and Aldon Smith with no replacements for at least half 
the season.
Some people think safety 
Donte Whitner is good (for 
some reason), and he left. 
The offense was not very 
good last year, and running 
back Frank Gore is not getting any younger. However, 
while the weakened pass 
rush will hurt, the 49ers got a 
huge boost in the secondary, 
replacing big hitter Whitner 
with a much better football 
player, safety T.J. Ward. The 
49ers always had depth at 
linebacker, and while they 
are currently thin, Patrick 
Willis is enough to make the 
unit productive by himself. 
This defense was mediocre 
last season too, ?nishing 13th 
in defensive DVOA, according to Football Outsiders. 
They might be a little better 
than that this year, because 
they were docked mostly for 
strength of schedule rather 
than lack of production.
The offense, however, will 
be fairly dominant. Quarterback Colin Kaepernick will 
continue to improve as both 
a passer and a runner, as his 
arm strength and athleticism 
make him a force to be reckoned with.
A whole season of wide 
receiver Michael Crabtree 
will be a huge help, and 
Stevie Johnson was a very 
smart signing as a third wide 
NFL predictions: Super Bowl winner
Football
The Tartans traveled to 
Case Western Reserve University on Saturday to kick 
off their 2014 football season. 
The game marked the ?rst 
time the rivals had met as 
new af?liate members of the 
Presidents Athletic Conference (PAC). 
Case Western crushed any 
good feelings Carnegie Mellon had coming into the game, 
as they dominated both sides 
of the ball in route to a 300 
victory. The stat line tells the 
true extent of the beatdown, 
with the Spartans accounting 
for over 300 more offensive 
yards than the Tartans. 
The Spartans were particularly effective on third 
downs, converting 54 percent 
of their attempts while holding Carnegie Mellon to only a 
31 percent success rate. Firstyear quarterback Bryan Jangro was a disappointment in 
his ?rst meaningful start for 
the Tartans, completing 19 of 
34 passes for only 149 yards 
with no touchdowns. 
Jangro was also the source 
of the only Carnegie Mellon 
turnover with a fumble at the 
start of the fourth quarter. 
The Tartans have a bye week 
to regroup and will face off 
against Washington & Jefferson College on Sept. 20.
Mens Soccer
The Carnegie Mellon 
mens soccer team traveled to 
Hiram, Ohio over the weekend to participate in the Hiram Tournament. 
On Friday, the Tartans 
faced off against Capital for 
the right to play in the championship game the next day. 
After letting in an early 
goal, Carnegie Mellon rebounded with goals at the end 
of the ?rst half and halfway 
through the second half by 
junior forward and mid?elder 
Dimitrije Slavkovic and senior 
mid?elder Scott Gerfen, respectively. 
Slavkovic tipped in a rebound off the post stemming 
from senior Mark Nicholass 
shot on goal. Gerfen scored 
in a similar fashion after senior Jakob Rohwers shot was 
de?ected away by the Capital 
goalkeeper. 
On Saturday, the Tartans 
played the host Hiram College 
in the championship match. 
This time, Carnegie Mellon 
struck ?rst with junior mid?elder Connor Webbs 26thminute de?ection off of Rohwers free kick. 
The Tartans put the game 
out of reach with Slavkovics 
second goal of the tournament, this time coming from 
a long outlet pass by sophomore Tristan Lockwood to 
beat the defense. 
Hiram tried a comeback 
with a 69th-minute goal, but 
was unable to overcome the 
original two-goal de?cit. The 
Tartans next play at Geneva 
College on Wednesday.
Mens Tennis
The Tartans mens tennis 
team opened up its season on 
a high note with a 72 victory 
over Allegheny College in the 
Nancy J. Heath Tournament. 
The team was scheduled to 
start its season earlier in the 
day against Grove City College, but that match was canceled. Carnegie Mellon fell in 
a hole early, trailing 21 after 
doubles play with only senior 
Will Duncan and ?rst year 
Edward Ang winning their 
match. 
These would be the last 
points the Tartans surrendered as they went 60 in 
singles play and cruised to the 
easy victory. Sophomores Kunal Wadwani, Kenny Zheng, 
and Kiril Kirkov all won in 
straight sets along with Duncan. 
The Tartans will next compete in their home invitational starting Friday through 
Sunday.
Womens Golf
In their ?rst event as an 
NCAA member, the Carnegie 
Mellon womens golf team 
competed at the Westminster 
Invite on Saturday. Playing at 
New Castle Country Club, the 
Tartans placed second with a 
team score of 367, led by ?rstyear Robin Tans 84, who had 
the second-best individual 
round of the tournament.
 Fellow ?rst-year Summer Kitahara hit an 86 over 
the 18 holes, which was good 
enough to place her third 
overall. 
First-years Emma Hoskins 
and Frances Hughes made 
up the rest of the inaugural 
squad, carding a 91 and a 106, 
respectively. 
The Tartans tee off next on 
Tuesday at the Grove City Invitational.
 Compiled by
CARL GLAZER
Steelers season kicks off
Womens soccer team scores again
ZEKE ROSENBERG
Staffwriter
The Carnegie Mellon Womens Soccer team took the ?eld 
to begin this year with a 20 
shutout win over the Salisbury University Seagulls on 
Saturday. 
The game was the ?rst in 
the 2014 Doubletree Tartan 
Cup. After a scoreless ?rst 
half, Carnegie Mellon scored 
two goals in the second half 
to seal their third straight 
victory. 
A very strong performance 
from Carnegie Mellon prevented Salisbury from generating more than one chance, 
which resulted in a save by 
sophomore goalkeeper, Katie 
Liston. 
Goals from junior mid?elder Carson Quiros and ?rstyear mid?elder Haili Adams 
were key for the win.
The ?rst half was relatively 
slow paced with Carnegie 
Mellon dominating the ?ow 
of play. Only three shots were 
put on goal in the ?rst half, 
but the 00 score line was not 
re?ective of the level of play. 
When Quiros broke 
through for Carnegie Mellon 
less than 10 minutes into the 
second half, it was all downhill 
from there for the Seagulls. 
When junior forward Alli McGugan perfectly set up Adams 
for Carnegie Mellons second 
goal of the match, there appeared no way back for Salisbury, and the match ended at 
20.
Carnegie Mellon won a 
second game by the same 
score again Sunday morning 
against the Rochester Institute of Technology Tigers. 
Carnegie Mellon was playing 
strong attacking football from 
the beginning, with Adams 
scoring her second goal in 
as many games in the fourth 
minute, as she put in her own 
rebound. 
Senior forward Sevina 
Reid scored another midway 
through the ?rst half, and that  
began another 20 shutout. 
Carnegie Mellon was not as 
impressive in the second half 
as Rochester had a few chances to score, but they converted 
none of them and Carnegie 
Mellon held a second straight 
team goalless.After dominating the Tartan Cup, the womens soccer team is looking 
forward to facing off against 
the Washington and Jefferson 
Presidents in a typical seasonal game. 
The match is Friday at 
7 p.m. 
Jonathan Leung/Photo Editor
Top: Sophomore forward Megan Bartoshuk avoids defenders as she attempts to score. Bottom: First-year 
forward Sienna Stritter takes control of the ball.
Courtesy of Wikimedia Commons
See STEELERS, A9
See CONTENDERS, A9

---------------------------------------------------

An inside look at the organization behind the TOC
Career Fairs: 
BOC & TOC
NIVEDITA CHOPRA
Asst. Copy Manager
Did you know that the 
Technical Opportunities 
Conference (TOC) is almost 
completely organized and 
managed by Carnegie Mellon 
students? 
The Tartan took an inside look into the efforts that 
go into putting together this 
popular career fair, which is 
crucial in helping students 
network with various companies, and ultimately ?nding 
the right job.
Planning for the TOC begins in the spring semester. 
It starts off with the previous 
years committee selecting two 
directors, said Arushi Chawla, one of the directors of the 
TOC committee and a senior 
economics and electrical and 
computer engineering double 
major. 
Erin Persson, a junior civil 
and environmental engineering and engineering and public policy double major, is the 
second director. 
After that, we send out 
an application to all Society 
of Women Engineers (SWE) 
members, since SWE and the 
College of Engineering collaborate on putting together 
the TOC, Chawla said.
After a rigorous interview 
process, about ten committee members are selected and 
assigned to one of four teams 
 corporate relations, public 
relations, human resources, 
and operations.
These teams work on different timelines based on their 
function. The corporate relations team begins reaching out 
to companies at the end of the 
spring semester.
 They work throughout the 
summer to discuss logistics 
with each companys recruiting team, in order to get all interested companies registered 
by an early August deadline.
Once the fall semester begins, the remaining teams 
take over. Public relations is 
responsible for publicizing the 
event, which involves putting 
up posters, talking to media, 
and generating awareness 
about the TOC. 
Its kind of like explaining 
what the TOC is and recommending that freshmen attend 
for the experience, said Patricia Pan, a member of the TOC 
public relations team, and a 
sophomore chemical engineering and biomedical engineering double major.
The human resources team 
within the TOC committee is 
responsible for recruiting and 
managing students volunteers 
who help out during the event.
 Before the TOC opens to 
students, these volunteers 
help the company recruiters 
with parking, registration, and 
setup for their booths. 
Volunteers also help with 
any issues that may arise during the day and tear down at 
the end of the day.
During the event itself, the 
operations team is responsible 
for ensuring that everything 
runs smoothly. 
Before the TOC, the team 
ensures that all the logistics 
are in place, including parking, catering, bag check-in, 
and other things. 
The team also handles issues that arise during the 
event, like non-functional 
equipment at booths, and 
delayed arrivals of packages 
mailed to Carnegie Mellon by 
the companies, among others.
Pulling off an event of this 
magnitude involves a great 
deal of careful planning, and 
long hours put in by the TOC 
committee. 
With the event spanning 
three days (Monday, Tuesday, 
and Wednesday) this year, 
rather than the usual two 
days, their work has increased 
a great deal, due to the need 
to spread awareness about 
this schedule change, and to 
coordinate an extra day of the 
career fair. 
However, their well-established teams and procedures 
are sure to be effective in 
tackling these challenges, and 
providing students with a successful career fair next week. 
BOC: Sept. 12, 14 p.m., Weigand Gym
TOC: Sept. 1517, 10 a.m.5 p.m., Weigand Gym

---------------------------------------------------

B2  thetartan.org/special The Tartan  September 8, 2014
NIVEDITA CHOPRA
Asst. Copy Manager
If you walk into the University Center over the next 
two weeks in your usual campus clothing, you may feel out 
of place amongst an exceptionally well-dressed crowd, 
the likes of which are rarely 
seen on campus outside of the 
Tepper School of Business. Its 
that time of year again: various companies are coming to 
campus for the Business Opportunities Conference (BOC) 
and Technical Opportunities 
Conference (TOC). The BOC 
will take place on Sept. 12 
from 14 p.m. in Wiegand 
Gym while the TOC will take 
place from Sept. 1517 between the hours of 10 a.m. 
and 5 p.m. each day in the 
gym.
If youre an underclassman, chances are that youre 
not going to the career fairs. 
Perhaps, you intended to go, 
but are now having second 
thoughts, given the number 
of jobs that go to upperclassmen. 
On the other hand, you 
may be going, but mainly 
for the swag  free stuff, 
for the uninitiated. Here are 
some better reasons to go 
to the upcoming fairs as an 
underclassman.
Nothing to lose
Take a moment to sit back 
and think about your dream 
job. I bet there will be at least 
one company at the BOC and 
TOC where you can get that 
job, or do something related 
thats equally exciting. 
This semesters fairs are 
two of a select number of 
events at which youll have 
absolutely nothing to lose 
by talking to recruiters. Your 
passion may even impress 
them enough to land you that 
dream summer job! Youll 
never know if you dont take 
the plunge.
Preparation for next fairs
If youre ?rmly convinced 
that theres no way that the 
company of your choice will 
hire a ?rst-year or sophomore, 
heres a more practical reason 
to go to the career fairs. 
Going to the fairs this year 
is good preparation for your 
following years at Carnegie 
Mellon. 
Attending this semester 
will allow you to feel what its 
like, so that you know what to 
expect as an upperclassman. 
Simply walk up to the company that youre eyeing for a job 
in the future, and chat with 
the recruiter. 
Ask about the companys 
required quali?cations and 
interview process, so that you 
know what theyre looking for 
and can be better prepared 
for the following year, when 
youre in the running for a job 
there.
Small booths hold much 
opportunity
While youre at it, check 
out some of the smaller 
booths that none of the upperclassmen are going to. 
Chatting with the recruiters 
there is less stressful  sometimes even fun  and can definitely boost your con?dence.
And remember, theyre 
hiring too. So if they offer any 
opportunities youre interested in, go for it! The odds of 
getting that job are substantially higher and the company 
probably pays more than traditional summer employers.
So, hunt out your nicest formal clothes and be 
prepared to join the crowd 
of well-dressed students at 
the upcoming career fairs. 
Draft a quick rsum  or 
update an existing one you 
have  and print out a 
few dozen copies. Make a 
name tag, be sure to dress 
nicely, and get ready to go! 
 
Editors note: This article 
was run in a previous issue. It has been edited to 
?t in the space available. 
At career fairs, its not too early to search for dream job
Career fairs prompt students to wonder: start-up or big ?rm?
ROHAN VARMA
Asst. SciTech Editor
With the Technical Opportunities Conference just 
around the corner, Weigand 
Gym will soon be ?lled with 
recruiters and students from 
various technical majors.
As college students applying for internships and jobs, 
we often focus on the immediate problem: secure an offer 
letter. What we dont usually 
plan for is the good, yet stressful, problem that sometimes 
follows: multiple companies 
want you to be a part of their 
team, but which one do you 
pick? While there are many 
factors that go into choosing 
what place you will eventually 
call your home as an intern or 
full-time employee, the main 
problem that I faced this summer was simple: whether to 
choose a small startup or a 
mid- to large-sized company.
This dichotomy is relevant 
whether you receive multiple offer letters, or are simply picking which companies 
you would like to apply to in 
the ?rst place. After conferring with peers who had experiences with both types of 
companies, I ended up working at an early-stage startup 
this summer. Based on my 
own internship experience, 
as well as the experiences of 
many other Carnegie Mellon students, here are some 
of the nexus questions you 
should think about when 
making your own decision. 
 
Impact
While most internships 
are invaluable because of the 
experience and knowledge 
you gain from working with a 
team, you might be looking for 
a place to leave your mark.
As part of a smaller company, the type of impact you 
can have is unique. As only a 
?rst-year working at Clipmine, 
a startup that is changing the 
way that we watch videos, I 
worked on important projects and made decisions on 
the product that would actually effect end users and the 
companys trajectory. This 
experience was not one that 
I was expecting, but was extremely excited to be a part of.
Maya Rau-Murthy, a sophomore computer science and 
robotics double major who 
interned at a startup called 
Cloud Raxak, which is developing security protocols for 
the cloud, said:
You end up having a very 
large impact and responsibility in the startup because there 
are only a couple of people 
working on the project. You realize that your work is actually 
integral in their success and 
that responsibility is a really 
exciting feeling.
Mukund Tibrewala, also a 
sophomore computer science 
and robotics double major, interned at a 20-person startup 
called Transcriptic, Inc which 
is increasing the computation 
and parallelization in scienti?c research. Recounting his 
experiences, he said:
It was really cool because I 
was given projects that would 
have been assigned to fulltime employees otherwise. In 
addition to being exciting and 
substantial projects in their 
own right, they made me feel 
like I was meaningfully contributing to Transcriptic. In 
fact, for the ?nal of my three 
projects, the engineer I was 
working with told me hed 
been wanting to do it himself 
for an entire year, but never 
found the time.
However, being a part of a 
large company does not mean 
you wont be able to meaningfully contribute. Rokhini Prabhu, a senior computer science 
and mathematical sciences 
double major at Carnegie Mellon University, has interned at 
both Apple and Google over 
the last two years and was able 
to provide insight into what 
its like making an impact in 
a large company. When asked 
to respond to the notion that 
it may be harder to make an 
impact in a large company, she 
said:
I think it depends on the 
work you do. I have most de?-
nitely done meaningful work 
at big companies even during 
my internships. Id like to think 
of it as high risk, high gains. 
Being heard might be harder 
in a big company compared 
to a startup. But when you are 
heard by the right people, you 
would have likely sparked off 
something big.
For example, if your work 
catches the eye of a director 
or [senior vice president] at 
a big company, then you will 
surely ?nd that several teams 
... are now suddenly scrambling together to work with 
you and make it a reality. 
 
Structure
One key difference between a startup and a large 
company is a large companys 
structure, such as protocols, 
practices, and policies that 
you would ?nd at a big company, but not necessarily at a 
small startup.
While these structures 
might hold a negative connotation, they are actually an 
attribute of large companies 
that could make your internship more enjoyable.
Prabhu said: Over several 
years, these companies have 
iterated and built internal 
infrastructure that is aimed 
toward improving the lives of 
their engineers. So you dont 
have to just spend, say, 20 
minutes sitting for your code 
to compile, because they have 
already found a way to parallelize their build system and 
make it blazingly fast. I have 
found in my experience that 
there is a lot of value and 
thought given toward doing 
things the right way and not 
just hacking at something to 
make it work    so as to satisfy 
the investors.
However, the freedom that 
comes with a startup also has 
its bene?ts. At companies like 
LinkedIn, there are many long 
protocols that are in place and 
steps that have to be taken 
before you are able to submit code to production; these 
can take many days, or even 
weeks. In contrast, I was able 
to push code to production on 
my ?rst day on the job, while 
still going through code review processes and rigorously 
testing it.
Anqi Cong is a junior business administration major 
and a computer science minor at Carnegie Mellon who 
has experienced life at both a 
large company, Unum, and a 
small company, Insightpool. 
While comparing the work 
?ow at a startup versus a large 
company, she said, the way 
people go about projects is 
really different. For example, 
at Unum I had to download 
Microsoft Lync, but I had to 
ask my manager to request 
approval for me, which sent 
me an approval form I had to 
?ll out; but then I realized I 
had to get approval to access 
the approval.... In contrast, I 
was doing a research project 
for the startup and asked for 
compensation for my participants. The response was Ok, 
how much do you need? 
 
Culture
A key difference between a 
startup and a large company is 
the type of people you interact 
with.
At a larger company, you 
are more likely to interact with 
other interns from all over the 
country. 
For instance, companies 
like Facebook and Google take 
hundreds of interns each summer, which could connect you 
to a lot of amazing people. In 
addition to other interns, you 
have the opportunity to meet 
people you would never have 
the chance to otherwise. For 
instance, many of my friends 
interning at Facebook got the 
opportunity to meet Mark 
Zuckerberg and Facebooks 
chief operating of?cer Sheryl 
Sandberg.
On the ?ip side, while small 
companies do not usually have 
more than a few interns or 
the famous names of a large 
company, its possible to become close to everyone in the 
company. 
During my internship I got 
lunch with the entire team 
most days, played ping pong 
with the chief technology of?cer everyday, and felt like I 
made some great friends with 
people that will be great mentors to me.
While you are sure to 
make great connections 
no matter which company 
you choose, the nature of 
the connections can vary. 
 
Perks
This is the section where 
larger companies steal the 
show. Working at a startup, 
there werent many perks 
outside of how rewarding the 
work itself felt.
However, this is not the 
case at a big company.
Tian Jin, a sophomore 
computer science major at 
Carnegie Mellon, interned at 
Facebook over the summer as 
part of the Facebook U program. She said, Facebook 
would have talks and events, 
and there were a lot of trips 
into San Francisco that they 
arranged. Hillary Clinton also 
came to speak at the Menlo 
Park campus, and I feel like 
these talks and trips wouldnt 
really be offered at a startup.
Additionally, larger companies usually have a selection of free restaurants to eat 
at alongside all the free food 
at the micro-kitchens located 
throughout their campuses. 
This is not to say that I didnt 
raid my companys kitchen every week, but the options were 
no competition to the Googles 
and Facebooks of the world.
Other than just food and 
cool events, large companies 
also have great amenities for 
their employees. Cong said, 
big companies have the resources. You have the gym on 
campus, the cafeteria, free ice 
cream, your own cubicle, company-issued laptop, dual monitors, and pay like crazy. But in 
exchange, bureaucracy.
All in all, there is not a de?nitive, one-size-?ts-all answer to the dilemma of choosing between a startup and 
larger company. 
To choose, look at your options and see what aligns with 
your interests and goals. All 
this being said, whether you 
go with a ?ve-person company 
working in an incubator, or a 
2,000 person company where 
you are surrounded by free 
food, your internship will likely be as good as you make it. 
 
Editors note: While the TOC 
typically attracts computer 
science, engineering, and science majors, according to its 
website, the conference is 
open to students of all majors. 
Essentials for career fairs
BRADEN KELNER
Editor-in-Chief
University career fairs can 
sometimes seem like madhouses with hundreds of employers visiting each day and 
an even greater number of 
students passing through the 
fairs. Nevertheless, its important to remain collected and 
professional when presenting 
yourself to the people who 
may soon be hiring you for a 
full-time position or summer 
internship. Following are ?ve 
things to bring to the Business 
Opportunities Conference 
(BOC) and Technical Opportunities Conference (TOC) to 
make sure you strike the perfect ?rst impression.
The right attire
Looking like you know 
what youre doing is half the 
battle at a career fair. To make 
your attire re?ect the con?-
dence employers want to see 
in candidates, stick to a formal dress code. For men, wear 
a business suit with a solid 
shirt or one that has a clean 
pattern. Tuck in your shirt, 
and wear a belt even if you 
dont need one. 
Dont forget a tie and a pair 
of black or brown shoes to ?nish off your look. For women, 
wear a suit or a skirt with a 
suit jacket. Stick to neutral 
colors like black or gray, and 
wear heels to complement the 
out?t. Both men and women 
should take the time to iron 
out wrinkles in your pants 
and shirt and to brush off any 
smudges that may be lingering on your jacket. As for hygiene, make sure your hair is 
cleaned up  cut and combed 
 and you look as if you got 
more than your fair share of 
sleep the night before, even if 
you havent.
Lists of companies to visit
Before attending fairs, 
visit the Career and Professional Development Centers 
career fair webpages to view 
the companies coming to 
campus. Research those companies and make a list of the 
ones that seem to be good 
?ts for your interests. For the 
companies youre head over 
heels for, consider spicing 
up your rsum and making 
unique copies, rather than a 
general rsum, to focus on 
the qualities you know those 
companies are looking for. 
Hand your general rsum 
out to the companies youre 
less interested in, but would 
still be happy to work for. 
By researching companies 
beforehand, youre sure to 
make a better impression with 
recruiters. Knowing a companys work and how you can 
speci?cally help the company 
will de?nitely make you stand 
out from the rest of the pack. 
 
A portfolio for rsums
Have a handful of rsums, but dont know what to 
do with them? Take a trip to 
the University Bookstore to 
pick up a portfolio. These ?rm 
folders for your papers will 
round out your professional 
look. 
Not only do they look 
sleek, but they also ensure 
that you wont have any rsum snafus, such as dropping all your papers or accidentally handing a recruiter 
a rsum crafted for another 
company. These handy folders will allow you to organize 
your rsums, and possibly a 
list of references and samples 
of your work if your ?eld typically requires those elements. 
Portfolios are easy to tuck 
under your arm and walk 
with, so you wont even know 
its there.
A water bottle and food
Career fairs can become 
packed and hectic. To give 
yourself some relief in your 
multiple layers of clothing, 
bring a water bottle. Take a 
drink if youre feeling hot or 
overwhelmed for refreshing 
relief. 
Staying hydrated will ensure that you are focused before you visit the companies 
that potentially hold your 
dream jobs. Before the fair, 
also make sure to eat. Sometimes, you may ?nd yourself 
waiting in unexpectedly long 
lines, which could cut into 
time allotted for lunch after 
the fair. Even if the fair isnt 
crowded, its always better to 
be overprepared rather than 
unprepared.
The right attitude
Remember that youre at 
the career fair to land a job or 
internship. Act that way. Approach all recruiters as if you 
want nothing more than to 
work for their company. Greet 
them enthusiastically and 
shake their hand ?rmly. 
Show them what quali?es you for a position at their 
company through an already 
prepared speech, but be sure 
to be ?exible in what youve 
prepared if the recruiter has 
other plans for your conversation. Be ready to answer 
some tough questions, and 
dont break a sweat if youre 
not able to adequately answer 
one. Answer it to the best of 
your ability and get ready for 
the next question. Ask the recruiter some questions yourself to show your interest and 
ensure that a position at the 
business is something you truly want to pursue. Thank the 
recruiter at the end of your 
conversation and follow up 
with an email after.
Eunice Oh/Staff Artist
Braden Kelner/Editor-in-Chief

---------------------------------------------------

B3  thetartan.org/special The Tartan  September 8, 2014
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 12Business Opportunities Conference 14 p.m. in Wiegand Gym
Alcoa                                                                  F1, F2
AQR Capital Management                                         B1
BNY Mellon                                                             G5
The Boeing Company                                              D1, D2
Burger King Corporation                                          C4
Chrysler Group, LLC                                                   G3, G4
Constellation                                                             H2
Dean & Company                                                    G2
Deloitte Consulting                                                   J5
Epic                                                                         A4
Erie Insurance                                                         H5
EY                                                                            E5
General Mills                                                       C1, C2
IBM Corporation                                              J1, J2, J3
ICAP                                                                        C3
Infosys Limited                                                         F4
INSIGHT2PROFIT                                                    A1
KPMG LLP                                                                  B2
M&T Bank                                                                D5
McMaster-Carr Supply Company                                J4
MUFG                                                                      D3
NetSuite                                                                   H3
The PNC Financial Services Group                          A2, A3
Pricewaterhouse Coopers                                         B5
Procter & Gamble                                                E3, E4
SDLC Partners                                                         E1
Unilever                                                             B3, B4
UPMC                                                                       H4
Editors Note: Subject to change through Sept. 10. Designations 
following companies are booth locations.

---------------------------------------------------

September 8, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/special  B4
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 15Technical Opportunities Conference 10 a.m.5 p.m. in Wiegand Gym
Abercrombie & Fitch (Home Of?ce)203
Addepar150
Adobe Systems Inc. CA115, 116
Airbnb, Inc.143
Alcoa142
Amazon.com100
American Institutes for Research120
Andreessen Horowitz166, 167
Anki, Inc.227
ANSYS, Inc.138
AppDirect220
AppDynamics164
Applied Predictive Technologies (APT)199
ARM Inc.194
AT&T Technology Development Program216
Athenahealth226
audible.com171
Avencore182
Blackstone149
Blend Labs217
Blizzard Entertainment205
Bloomberg LP139, 140 
Booz Allen Hamilton117
Branding Brand200
BrightEdge213
BrightRoll, Inc.168
Capital One221
Caterpillar, Inc.128
Central Intelligence Agency230
Cisco Systems, Inc.201
Citadel Investment Group LLC163
Comcast185
Compunetix204
Constant Contact225
Cyan, Inc.170
DC Energy118
Dean Ventures177
Delphix181
Dropbox126, 127
DRW Trading Group186
eBay, Inc.121
Enova Financial103
Epic146
Evernote154
Explorys218
Facebook104, 105
Factset Research Systems Inc.160
FireEye189
Flipboard207
Ford Motor Company111
Google, Inc.133, 134
Harris Corporation184
Homejoy148
IBM Corporation113, 114
In-Q-Tel229
Intentional Software198
ITG Inc.158
Jane Street Capital, LLC208
Johns Hopkins Applied Physics Laboratory119
Key Tech210
Leanplum215
Lightspeed Venture Partners157
LORD Corporation141
The Mathworks, Inc.165
Medallia, Inc.195, 196
MemSQL159
Meraki224
Microsoft106,107
MongoDB132
Morgan Stanley137
Motorola Mobility, Inc.122
Mozilla Corporation112
National Renewable Energy Laboratory108
NetApp147
Next Jump, Inc.125
Nutanix212
OkCupid135
Oracle129, 130
Parsons Corporation124
Polyvore211
Qualcomm, Inc.178
Raytheon BBN Technologies101
Raytheon Company102
Red?n Corporation228
Rent the Runway176
RetailMeNot, Inc.193
Riverbed Technology175
Rockwell Automation144
Ropes & Gray LLP169
salesforce.com109, 110
Sandia National Laboratories123
SapientNitro219
Schlumberger136
Snapchat145
Spongecell180
Stripe187
Susquehanna International Group, LLP 
(SIG)
223
Tableau Software192
Texas Instruments161, 162
Thoughtworks151
The Timken Company172
TimkenSteel Corporation173
Tower Research Capital193
Turn, Inc.183
Twilio, Inc.155
Twitter, Inc.214
Two Sigma Investments190, 191
Union Paci?c Railroad202
United States Postal Service131
Veson Nautical Corporation222
Wayfair209
WillowTree Apps174
Wolverine Trading LLC206
Xcalar, Inc.156
Yelp, Inc.179
Yext152, 153
Zillow188
Editors Note: Attending companies subject to change.

---------------------------------------------------

B5  thetartan.org/special The Tartan  September 8, 2014
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16Technical Opportunities Conference 10 a.m.5 p.m. in Wiegand Gym
4moms315, 316
Aerotek337
Analog Devices, Inc.324
Anki, Inc.427
Apple, Inc.300, 301
Apportable374
Bandcamp364
The Bank of New York Mellon370
Barclays361
Bebop393
Bechtel Marine Propulsion Company - 
Bettis Laboratory
320
Bechtel Plant Machinery Inc.319
Birchbox411
Blend Labs417
Bluebeam Software382
Booz Allen Hamilton317
Bose Corporation424
Bowman Consulting368
Branding Brand400
BrightEdge413
Capital Dynamics Pte Ltd318
Capital One421
Charles River Development363
Chopper Trading LLC430
Cirrus Logic, Inc354
Coinbase398
Comprehend Systems367
Constant Contact425
Credit Suisse341
Custom Ink416
Decisive Analytics Corporation394
Deloitte Consulting313,314
Demiurge Studios412
Dow Jones349
eBay, Inc.321
EMC372
Exxon Mobil Corporation328, 329
Fino Consulting375
Fitbit422
Ford Motor Company311
GameChanger Media351
GEICO386
General Electric339, 340
Google, Inc.333, 334
Grant Street Group420
Green Hills Software389
Groupon305
Heap Analytics357
Hewlett Packard369
Hudson River Trading343, 344
Hyland407
Informatica381
INSCOM377
Intel Corporation309, 310
Intel Security308
Intersystems Corporation366
IXL Learning353
Johnson & Johnson342
Junction Networks348
Jut, Inc.390
Knewton350
Levant Power Corp.335
Lexmark International403
Linde388
LinkedIn360
LOreal423
ManTech International  Corporation428, 429
Medallia, Inc.395, 396
MediaMath376
Merck338
Microsoft306, 307
The MITRE Corporation409
Mohr Davidow418
Moog Inc358
MSD Capital, L.P.362
MuleSoft399
National Instruments352
National Security Agency404, 405
Nest Labs, Inc.332
NetSuite385
Nucor Steel379
Nvidia346, 347
Oceans Edge, Inc.330
Originate359
OSIsoft, Inc.401
Palantir Technologies322, 323
PDT Partners, LLC365
Pitney Bowes331
PricewaterhouseCoopers414
Procter & Gamble327
Pure Storage371
Riot Games356
Rocket Fuel426
Samsung Research America303, 304
Samsung Semiconductor, Inc.302
SAP355
Seagate Technology415
Sensus419
Spiceworks408
SpiralGen384
Splunk410
Stripe387
TerraSim Inc.370
TripAdvisor373
Turn Inc.383
U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission397
Uber392
Ultimate Software406
Union Paci?c Railroad402
Visa Inc.380
VMware391
Westinghouse Electric Company312
WhatsApp Inc.325, 326
Yahoo336
Zazzle345
Editors Note: Attending companies subject to change.

---------------------------------------------------

September 8, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/special  B6
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 17Technical Opportunities Conference 10 a.m.5 p.m. in Wiegand Gym
@WalmartLabs622
4moms515, 516
A9.com562
Accenture532
The Advisory Board Company565
Af?rm547
AgaMatrix514
Agilex582
Akuna Capital586
Alpine Data Labs549
Apportable574
AQR Capital Management616
Aruba Networks600
Asana576
Autodesk, Inc.500
Avere Systems Inc.509
Battelle Memorial Institute539
Bene?tfocus619
The Boeing Company506, 507
Brown Brothers Harriman625
Capital Dynamics Pte Ltd518
Carnegie Mellon University Software 
Engineering Institute
501
Charles River Analytics559
Charter Steel503
Chase627
Chevron Corp.511
Chrysler Group LLC508
Citi564
Clarabridge612
Clinkle584
CME Group598
Comprehend Systems567
Cooper Tire & Rubber Company505
CoverMyMeds594
Daily Thermetrics611
Deja Vu Security563
Dick's Sporting Goods529
Dow AgroSciences541
Duetto Research620
Duolingo524
Eastern Research Group, Inc624
ERICO International581
Ericsson517
Etsy558
Exelis Inc.595
EY536, 537
Fidessa572
Firaxis Games513
Flatiron Health603
General Dynamics C4 Systems525
General Dynamics Electric Boat526
General Motors502
Globo Mobile Technologies Inc575
GoDaddy533, 534
Hedvig Inc593
Highmark535
Indeed.com504
InsideSales.com617
Intergraph Corporation546
IXL Learning553
Jet Propulsion Laboratory512
Johnson & Johnson542
JPMorgan Chase & Co.628
Junction Networks548
Jut, Inc.590
Kabam543
KPMG LLP544
Kulicke and Soffa589
Langan Engineering & Environmental 
Services
510
LGS Innovations561
Lilly Pulitzer601
Liquidnet519, 520
Lockheed Martin528
LogRhythm Inc.577
The Lubrizol Corporation597
Lutron Electronics Co., Inc.630
Medidata Solutions568
Merck538
Millennial Media615
MIT Lincoln Laboratory551
Mohr Davidow618
MPR Associates, Inc.607
National Robotics Engineering Center530
National Security Agency604, 605
NationBuilder557
Northrop Grumman Corporation540
Nucor Steel579
Oak Ridge Associated Universities614
Oak Ridge Institute for Science and 
Education
613
Oculus VR, Inc.585
Ooyala554
Optym599
Palantir Technologies522, 523
Pandora531
Perfect Sense Digital566
Pi-Coral, Inc.602
PNC Financial Services, Inc.521
Procter & Gamble527
Pure Storage571
Raymond James Financial580
Razor?sh Platforms555
Readyforce621
Riot Games556
Robert Bosch LLC-RTC623
Robinhood569
ROBLOX609
SanDisk Corporation588
ServiceNow606
Shiver Entertainment552
Social Security Administration626
Spiceworks608
Squarespace570
Stroz Friedberg583
Syniverse596
Takata587
TATA Consultancy Services550
Test?re Inc573
TIBCO592
Travelers610
United Technologies Research Center578
UPMC591
Verizon560
Zazzle545
Editors Note: Attending companies subject to change.

---------------------------------------------------

Boyhood
A review of the ambitious new film 
from Richard Linklater  B6
09.08.14 Volume 109, Issue 3
Maroon 5
V keeps the band relevant  B4
Fall TV Preview 
Get a look at the new faces of 
 the upcoming season  B5
Death From Above 1979
Physical World arrives  B3

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
Talking dogs and oxymorons are omnipresent 
in this weeks comics.
  7
Movies
Godzilla and Maleficent are playing in 
McConomy this week.
6
The Tartan. Box 119. UC Suite 103. Carnegie Mellon University. 5000 Forbes Ave. Pittsburgh, PA 15213. www.thetartan.org.  2014 The Tartan
PUBLISHER Rachel Cohen EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Braden Kelner
PILLBOX EDITOR Joey Peiser ASSISTANT PILLBOX EDITOR Jenna Bodnar COMICS EDITOR Maryyann Landlord 
ART EDITOR Michelle Wan PHOTO EDITOR Jonathan Leung 
COPY MANAGER James Wu COVER Alan Vee
6
45
regulars...
Advice
Beware of swiping right.3
...diversions
...this week only
DFA 1979
The dance-punk duo returns from a 10-year 
hiatus with Physical World.
3
Maroon 5
The popular rock-pop group doesnt 
disappoint on their fifth album, V. 
4
Fall TV
Get a peek at some new shows set to 
premiere in the coming weeks.
5
Boyhood
Richard Linklaters ambitious and touching film 
is a success. 
6
Puzzles
Pass the time in 112 lecture by giving yourself 
a real challenge: these puzzles.
  9
Horoscopes
The stars may be aligned in your favor this 
week, hopefully.
10Calendar
Do stuff on and off-campus while its still warm!11
3

---------------------------------------------------

music
pillbox 09.08.143
Death From Above 1979 returns
Physical World expands on dance-punk duos unique sound
Dance-punk duo Death from Above 1979 released 
their long-awaited sophomore effort, The Physical 
World, for free streaming on iTunes last Tuesday 
 a full week before its Sept. 9 release  and its 
the perfect soundtrack for punching holes in your 
wall, a night of sweaty debauchery, cutting lanes 
while speeding down a highway during a torrential 
downpour, or all three together. In short: its exactly 
what fans want and expect from Death from Above 
(DFA) 1979.
10 years ago, DFA 1979 released their debut album 
Youre a Woman, Im a Machine and promptly 
kicked the entire music world right in the gonads. 
The record explodes into your eardrums with Jesse 
Keelers blistering-yet-groovy and heavily distorted 
bass riffs and Sebastien Graingers crashing drums 
and howling voice. The duo gave a million teenage 
bands inspiration to start making noise in the 
basement and had the whole industry wondering 
what would come next.
But then, in 2006, Keeler posted on the bands 
website that DFA 1979 was no more, and the two 
musicians explored other projects  Keeler is one 
half of electronic duo MSTRKRFT, and Grainger 
released a solo album, amongst other collaborations.
Now, after a surprise announcement over the 
summer that came tied with the release of the first 
single, Trainwreck 1979, Physical World is finally 
here, and it appears that those 10 years didnt go to 
waste.
Grangier sings on Right On, Frankenstein that 
nothings new and its just the same old song with 
a different tune, but on Physical World DFA 1979 
pushes their tried-and-true sound into new territory, 
and the result is an album that has the same sexy, 
dirty grit fans initially fell in love with but is more 
musically complex.
The riffs are more diverse and intricate this time 
around; the rhythms twist and turn; the tempos 
change on a dime  everything that was lacking in 
Youre A Woman, Im A Machine is here on Physical 
World.
The album opens with the grooving Cheap Talk 
before diving straight into the ferocious Right On, 
Frankenstein, a roller-coaster ride that ends in a 
spiraling bass coda.
Virgins is a filthy stomp across innocence, with 
snarling lines like, theres nothing sacred to me/I 
lost it in the backseat.
White Is Red, about a feuding and murderous 
couple, explores narrative storytelling in the lyrics, 
and is another example of new territories toward 
which the duo have pushed themselves.
The album begins to lose steam near the finish 
line  Gemini feels a bit like a rehash of previous 
album elements, and is one of the few instances of 
DFA 1979 falling back into their old bad habits on 
Physical World.
Concerning the reason for the new album, Grainger 
told music magazine NME that No matter what 
Jesse and I do, on whatever scale of success its sat 
on, theres always some kind of reference to Death 
from Above  So were putting out a Death from 
Above record and if the press is like, Its not what 
we expected, or however they react to it, its like 
Well, youve been f***ing asking for it.
It certainly isnt what I expected, because the 
general rule of thumb for a new album after a 
10-year hiatus is that its an embarrassing attempt 
to recapture a creative spark that likely died a long 
time ago. Instead, DFA 1979 returned in full form 
with new ideas to expand their sound. Instead of 
sounding like an aged copy of Youre A Woman, 
Im A Machine, Physical World sounds like its 2006 
and they never even left.
Joey Peiser | Pillbox Editor
Photo courtesy of Chris Trewin via Flickr
Advice for awkward people
Dear Evan,
Ive been chatting with 
a guy I matched with on 
Tinder for the past couple 
of weeks, and it becomes 
clearer with every real 
conversation that I cant 
stand him  but I cant 
get up the nerve to 
unmatch and block him. 
Then he asked me out on 
a dinner date, and out of 
stupidity, I said yes  I 
havent been on a date in 
over a year, and this has 
been my only chance. 
However, I want to make 
sure this is the last date 
well ever have, too. What 
should I do?
Regrettably yours, 
Without an Inch of Mettle, 
Pluck
Dear WIMP,
You need to make the date 
the oddest, or the most 
horrifying, experience of 
this guys life. You obviously 
dont have to do both of 
these, but here are some 
fine suggestions on how to 
make this an awful date:
Wear bright colors  red 
on orange on yellow is 
preferable.
As soon as you sit down at 
your table: Oh, god, did I 
just sit on something? Did 
you hear that squeak? 
When he says no, look 
relieved and say, Great. 
Do you know where the 
bathroom is? Ive been 
holding in this huge dump.
When you get back, 
interrupt his attempt at 
normal conversation with, 
I like to tell this to people 
on the first date, just in 
case we move in together 
or get married: I have 
a history of constantly 
changing paraphilias, 
kicking in my sleep, and 
chronic explosive diarrhea. 
So I wouldnt go use the 
bathroom while were here.
Ask the waiter (call him 
garon) if you can order 
a plate of uncooked bean 
sprouts. If he says no, insult 
him (if you have the guts) 
and order a meat-only dish.
If your date is still there 
when its time for the 
check, say you have to use 
the bathroom again  but 
just leave the restaurant. 
Make sure you drove 
yourself there.
If you find the experience 
of ruining this date 
immensely rewarding, 
I suggest you follow 
fuckyeahconnietinders.
tumblr.com, where Tartan 
alumna Connie Chan 
approaches 99 percent of 
matches with the intent of 
trolling.
Or just get off Tinder and 
meet people the 
old-fashioned way,
Evan Kahn
Need advice? Send queries 
to advice@thetartan.org.
About swiping right coming back to haunt you
Sebastien Graingers howling voice and 
crashing drums provide the backbone of 
Death from Above 1979s unique sound.

---------------------------------------------------

4music
pillbox 09.08.14
Two years after the release of Overexposed, Maroon 
5 debuted their ?fth album, V, on Tuesday. Since the 
bands ?rst album, Songs About Jane, came out in 2002, 
the band has adopted an increasingly poppy sound, and 
V certainly follows that trend.
Heres the verdict on this album in a nutshell: if you 
like pop music, you will like V. If you like Maroon 5, 
you will like V. If you like to dance, you will like V. If 
you like heartfelt lyrics, you will like V. If you are a fan 
of the bands ?rst CD and have been giving them ?ack 
ever since their second album for selling out, you will 
probably not like V.
Before the review of this CD, lets get a few things out in 
the open. Full disclosure, I am a huge fan of Maroon 5, 
so is this review biased? Maybe. Consider it an expert 
opinion.
That being said, yes, its true that Songs About Jane was 
a great album. Yes, its true that the albums since Songs 
About Jane do not sound like that one did. But if they all 
sounded the same, Maroon 5 would be considered a one 
trick pony and, quite frankly, it would be boring.
There is something to be said for a band that has been 
popular for 12 years, and still averages 3.75 hit singles 
on each album (actual calculation) and can diversify 
their sound enough to keep their music interesting and 
relevant. Say what you will about Maroon 5 betraying 
their true roots. If four out of their ?ve albums do not 
sound like Songs About Jane, then maybe the original 
album wasnt actually their true sound. Whatever 
you think about the band and how it has evolved, I 
recommend listening to V with an open mind.
With that said, lets move onto the review.
Maroon 5 has always been able to promise upbeat, 
funky melodies that stick in your head for days and this 
album does not disappoint. Sugar, Feelings, and 
It Was Always You carry on this tradition, as well as 
singles youve probably already heard on the radio over 
the summer: Maps, and Animals. A techno/pop vibe 
reminiscent of disco music makes fresh the signature 
high-pitched threads throughout the songs that lead 
singer Adam Levine is famous for. These songs will have 
you at least tapping your foot, if not dancing around your 
dorm room.
V also carries on the Maroon 5 tradition of heartfelt lyrics 
about love and all of its ups and downs. Animals and 
Sugar are upbeat songs celebrating a relationship 
that is going well, whereas Unkiss Me and Leaving 
California lament the end of a love affair. One of Maroon 
5s greatest qualities is writing relatable songs. No 
matter your current mood, if you have ever experienced 
romantic feelings for another human being, chances are 
you can relate to at least one of the songs on V.
Though it adheres to many of Maroon 5s traditions, 
V does deviate in the writing process. The band 
collaborated with many other artists on the development 
and production of these songs, including such familiar 
names as Ryan Tedder, Gwen Stefani, Sia, and Nate 
Ruess, though Stefani is the only one whose voice is 
heard on the album. The input of this array of artists 
helped contribute to the eclectic sound of V. Those 
familiar with these artists will recognize their in?uence. 
For example, Nate Ruess of Fun. collaborated with the 
band in the writing of Leaving California, and the song 
does sound like the lovechild of Maroon 5 and Fun. 
Even with other artists helping out on V, Levine still put 
his touch on every song. Say what you will about him 
or the band in general; the lead singer/guitarist helped 
write every single song on each of their albums, and V is 
no exception.
If you dont listen to the entire album all the way 
through, here are the highlights of V listed in 
chronological order as they appear on the tracklist:
Animals
This song has a great beat, steamy lyrics, and classic 
Maroon 5 sexual metaphors. Blast it when youre 
working out to get you motivated or play it when youre 
with your signi?cant other to set the mood. Either way, if 
you have any af?nity for fun, upbeat songs, this one is a 
must listen.
Leaving California
In a much different tone than Animals, this song tells a 
story about a love lost. Soulful vocals, smooth melodies, 
and a sweet message make this song a go-to for anyone 
going through a breakup, or someone who just enjoys 
listening to sincerely written love songs. It is no She Will 
Be Loved, but it has similar emotions behind it.
Feelings
Starting out with funky guitar picks and a long, howling 
vocal brings listeners back a few decades and immediately 
gets toes tapping. Adam begs an elusive lover to leave her 
boyfriend and be with him, and you almost want her to 
stay so that he keeps singing. Anybody looking for a good 
dance beat, this is your song.
Shoot Love
This song is only on the deluxe version of the CD, but 
de?nitely worth a listen. A moving beat and restless 
drums add to the anxious tone of the song, in which 
Adam begs a woman for mercy. Complete with the 
high-pitched trills typical of Maroon 5 songs and a tone 
that makes the listener feel as if they are listening to an 
action movie, this is a unique and interesting song that 
showcases the bands storytelling abilities. Dont let the 
extra cost of the deluxe edition deter you from this.
Overall, V does not disappoint. It has all the 
characteristics of a classic Maroon 5 CD, but with a 
fun, retro twist on the melodies. The collaborations paid 
off in a diverse mix of songs that somehow all ?t into a 
coherent whole. Forget about your preconceived feelings 
toward Maroon 5 for a minute and listen to this CD with 
an open mind. Fans of the album will be happy to know 
that the band also announced tour dates, and Maroon 
5 will be coming to Pittsburgh at the CONSOL Energy 
Center on March 13.
Jenna Bodnar | Assistant Pillbox Editor
Photo courtesy of Andy via Flickr
Adam  Levine, lead singer of Maroon 5, is  
probably more well known for his looks, but 
truly has a voice to kill for.
Maroon 5 remains relevant and danceable
Groups latest, V, features guest collaborations, funky grooves, and sexual metaphors

---------------------------------------------------

television
pillbox 09.08.145
Another September, another round of new shows 
Murder, Batman, and hangovers rule television this Fall in these upcoming series
There may not be much time left before classes pick up 
and you ?nd yourself burying your nose in books, even 
on the weekends. While you may already be looking 
forward to fall television series returning for their latest 
seasons, there are a number of new gems premiering 
this fall for you to escape into when you ?nd yourself 
looking for a much needed break.
Gotham
Before there was Batman, there was Gotham, 
according to FOXs newest television series, set to 
premiere on Monday, Sept. 22. This origin story about 
the masked crusaders home city will be told through the 
eyes of detective James Gordon (Ben McKenzie, known 
for his starring role in The O.C.). The detective will star 
alongside another detective, Harvey Bullock (Donald 
Lobe) and a young Bruce Wayne (David Mazouz), who 
will witness the death of his parents at the start of the 
series, sending Gotham into a spiraling plummet of 
crime. The show will tell the origins of the DC Comics 
Batman villains, like the Penguin and Joker, to reveal 
how Gotham became the corrupt city it is known to be 
today. For lovers of cop thrillers with a mix of supervillain 
madness, this show is one you wont want to miss.
How To Get Away with Murder
Airing three days after Gotham on Thursday, Sept. 25, 
ABCs How To Get Away with Murder will take viewers 
on what promises to be a ride full of sex, lies, and 
murder. Viola Davis starts as Middleton Law Schools 
Annalise Keating, a strong-willed professor who teaches 
Criminal Law 100, or as she calls it, How To Get Away 
with Murder. Through a series of assignments and 
cases, Keating will teach her students how to discredit 
witnesses, identify suspects, and bury the evidence that 
can be used against them. The show promises to be one 
full of scandals in a world where the stars try to uphold 
the law in a professional setting through law-breaking 
tactics, like sleeping with witnesses for information. 
Who knows, the shows starring students may even ?nd 
themselves implicated as suspects in a murder.
Bad Judge
Unlike How To Get Away with Murder, NBCs Bad 
Judge, airing on Thursday, Oct. 2, will take on the law in 
a completely different way. Judge Rebecca Wright (Kate 
Walsh) promises to battle hangovers in the court room 
while con?dently doling out justice. Please be seated. 
Do it quietly. Ive got a headache, and somebody get me 
some Gatorade, Wright complains before sleeping with 
a witness and whispering to her bailiff in 
court that shes thankful a pregnancy test 
isnt positive during the shows of?cial 
trailer. The series will also tout a story 
about Wrights relationship with a young 
boy named Robby Shoemaker (Theodore 
Barnes), whose parents she sentences 
to prison. Their relationship will develop 
throughout the show, and Wright will 
become a mentor to the young boy, 
possibly allowing him to live with her. For 
viewers looking for a raunchy, yet friendly 
show, look no further. This new comedy 
looks like it will deliver some fantastic 
one-liners and a story to pull at your 
heartstrings.
Braden Kelner | Editor-in-Chief
Photo courtesy of Circle X via Flickr
Ben McKenzie, known for playing the 
troubled-while-gorgeous  Ryan Atwood 
on the FOX drama The O.C., will be 
portraying a young Jim Gordon on the 
upcoming FOX series, Gotham.
Photo courtesy of ABC Television Group via Flickr
Viola Davis, who was nominated for an Academy 
Award for her role in Doubt, will star as Annalise 
Keating, a Criminal Law professor amidst a world 
of scandal and intriguie in the upcoming ABC 
series, How To Get Away with Murder. 

---------------------------------------------------

6movies
pillbox 09.08.14
And the best movie of the year goes to
Weve all heard about Boyhood, written and directed 
by Richard Linklater (Dazed and Confused, the Before 
trilogy) which begins with 6-year-old boy Mason (Ellar 
Coltrane) and follows him through his tween and teen 
years, up until he hits 18. And, yes, Linklater uses the 
same boy, not to mention the same cast, for 12 long 
years.
The general consensus is that those 12 years 
automatically classify it as a masterpiece. Anyone who 
has heard of Boyhood usually exclaims the same things:
It took 12 years to make this ?lm! They used the same 
cast for 12 years, the same boy from when he was six to 
18! Can you believe it? It was incredible! It made me so 
nostalgic for my childhood because Ill never get it back.
All of those things are true. And, yes, Boyhood was 
an amazing ?lm. Itll most likely dominate this years 
awards season. The scope and ambition of this project is 
beyond comprehension and the stakes, in retrospect, are 
impossibly high. What if some people die in the allotted 
12 years time? Who is going to ?nance a ?lm for that 
long? What if Ellar Coltrane turns out to be a bad actor?
Fortunately, Linklater triumphed  and what an amazing 
triumph Boyhood turned out to be. Linklaters dangerous 
decision to work with the same cast for 12 years allowed 
him to portray youth so accurately that the ?lm feels like 
a true journey through a persons life. Patricia Arquette, 
who plays Olivia, deserves at least three Oscars for her 
role as Masons struggling-yet-steadfast mother. The 
performances of the entire cast transcend acting and 
boil down to sharing essences of actual people with the 
audience.
The amazing part of Boyhood is that it is not just a movie. 
It transcends the ?lm medium because there are no 
plot twists, no villains, nor are there any extraordinary 
events that result in typical cinematic climax. But thats 
what makes it special. By giving attention to universal 
experiences that individuals would not ordinarily deem 
movie-worthy  such as going bowling with your father 
or waiting in line for the newest Harry Potter book  
Linklater provides moments of realization that every one 
of lifes moments is precious. Many of the moments in 
the ?lm are genuine experiences that we have personally 
gone through, but usually store away as mundane or 
insigni?cant yet those moments are essential to our 
own coming-of-age adventures oh-so-many years ago.
Its easy to label Boyhood as nostalgic, leaving us 
desperately hoping to relive those moments again and 
again. And yes, the story and the characters are so 
authentic that we connect our memories with those of 
the ?lm. However, the most important experience from 
Boyhood stems from Mason and his family letting go 
without even a second thought.
Naturally, there is no traditional plot in this movie  
just story. Mason doesnt dwell on the hardships of his 
youth, nor does he grasp onto any glorious memories. He 
simply moves on. There is no signi?cant bene?t that we, 
the audience, get from clinging to the memories of our 
youth. Time and change are inevitable, elusive engines 
of life, so our childhood stays behind while we must 
grow up and move on. But that does not mean we are 
forced to toss away our sensibility as we get older.
Why did Linklater choose to document 12 years of 
someones childhood? Why not make Adulthood? Or 
Midlife Crisis? Or Old Age? If its just for the sake of 
nostalgia, then whats the point of spending 12 years on 
a ?lm?
We can still nourish the sense of wonder and curiosity 
that made our youth so special. Its optimal to fully 
welcome every waking moment of our lives and to 
awaken the next day as a wiser, more courageous person 
than yesterday.
Andie Park | Staffwriter
Boyhood captures ephemeral moments of youth
Amibitious project transcends ?lm to deliver a touching and universal portrait of adolescence
Andie Park | Staffwriter
Sixty years after the iconic original, in a time when lackluster reboots and sequels 
plague theaters, there is one that ?nally got it right. Godzilla is a powerful spectacle 
packed not only with glorious monsters, but with substantial human drama that 
pushes the story forward. The movie stays true to the creatures origins; at a 
nuclear plant in Japan, supervisor Joe Brody (dramatic demigod Bryan Cranston) 
is devastated by a nuclear disaster that destroys not only his plant but his family. 
Years later, he becomes obsessed by the possibility that the disaster is a cover up 
for something much bigger. His now grown son, Lieutenant Ford Brody (the oh-soswoon-worthy Aaron Taylor-Johnson), reluctantly tries to get his seemingly crazy 
father off his wagon when they ?nd out there actually is something beyond a nuclear 
conspiracy. Godzilla procures one of the scariest monsters in recent movie history 
in a tale about unstoppable forces of nature, resulting in an exhilarating moviegoing 
experience.
Godzilla
Friday, Sept. 12
8
Maleficent
Saturday, Sept. 13
7
We all know the tale of Princess Aurora, also known by her street name Sleeping 
Beauty, who pricked her ?nger and was cursed to an eternal slumber, waiting for 
true loves kiss to break the spell. She was cursed by the evil Male?cent, but how 
much do we know about the sorceress behind the spell? In a modern retelling of 
the original 1959 Disney ?lm Sleeping Beauty, Male?cent ?ips the protagonist into 
one of the most iconic villains of all (Male?cent, if you couldnt tell from the title) and 
tells the story through her dazzling green eyes. Angelina Jolie is the perfect ?t as the 
alluring and magnetic Male?cent, with her marvelously angular cheekbones, sinister 
voice and enigmatically evil personality. By providing a substantial back story for its 
titular anti-heroine, Male?cent is an interesting case study of how we view villains, 
particularly female ones, and what constitutes a strong character who just happens 
to be female. If youre not into the Disney vibe, dont worry. Male?cent packs 
the punch with delicious performances and an untold fairytale that is refreshingly 
wonderful.
moviesinmcconomyMcConomy Auditorium, University Center

---------------------------------------------------

comics
pillbox 09.08.147
Seven by xkcd
press@xkcd.comxkcd.com
http://wronghands1.wordpress.com
Anthropomorphic Schtick by john atkinson

---------------------------------------------------

8comics
pillbox 09.08.14
Bum by Alex Culang and Raynato Castro
buttersafe@gmail.com  www.buttersafe.com

---------------------------------------------------

puzzles
pillbox 09.08.149
Solutions from Aug. 25
CrosswordSuper Tough DifficultyChallenging Difficulty
Maze Puzzle: ChallengingBridges Puzzle: Tough
Bridges courtesy of www.krazydad.comKakuro courtesy of www.krazydad.com
Start from the center arrow of the maze and find your way 
out to the other arrow.
Connect the islands horizontally or vertically to form a network to reach any island from any other island. The number 
on each island indicates the number of outgoing bridges. 
Use at most two bridges between two islands.

---------------------------------------------------

10horoscopes
pillbox 09.08.14
 1. Ultimatum word
 2. Solitary
 3. Insult
 4. Deficient in pigmentation
 5. Protector
 6. Silly Putty holder
 7. Gymnast Korbut
 8. Rotating
 9. ___ Tafari (Haile Selassie)
10. Aided
11. Pack ___ (quit)
12. Horses gait
13. Up ___ good 
19. Chow
21. Ages and ages
25. Satisfies
27. Apply lightly
28. Russian retreat
29. Community spirit
30. Full of substance
31. Polite
33. Prince Valiants wife
34. Battery type
35. Crystal-lined rock
38. Conger catcher
41. Native of Wales
43. Inhabitant of Bucharest
46. Director Jean-___ Godard
48. Unit of loudness
51. Not fem.
53. Tries to bite
55. Sailing hazards
57. Gardner and others
58. Dissolve
59. He sang about Alice
61. Vogue rival
63. Sacramentos ___ Arena
64. Slender
65. Words of understanding
67. Mineral suffix
68. Meadow
 1. Born Free lion
 5. An earth sci.
 9. Singer Bonnie
14. Lounge
15. Unattractive
16. Minute Maid Park player
17. Rebuff
18. Offensive action
20. More spine-tingling
22. Penlight battery
23. Division preposition
24. Agrees tacitly
26. Former Fords
28. Raging
32. Monetary unit of Thailand
36. Polished off
37. French composer Erik
39. Contradict
40. Tobacco plug
42. Not once
44. Art ___
45. The Hilton, e.g.
47. Grain stores
49. Wee bit
50. Institution for mentally ill
52. Pulpy summer refreshment
54. Sign of injury
56. Wife of a rajah
57. Eastern nanny
60. Get it?
62. Kathmandu resident
66. Very fine pasta
69. Ladies of Sp.
70. ___ once
71. Type of market
72. Skin disorder
73. Rock
74. Actor Penn
75. Gratuity
ACROSSDOWN
Horoscopes
aries
march 21april 19
This school year is all about academics and working hard. 
Dont get distracted too much by social activities or you 
might find yourself cornered with stress.
taurus
april 20may 20
Celebrate your little achievements. Its the little things that 
count. This year, reward yourself for accomplishing each 
step of a larger goal.
gemini
may 21june 21
We often forget to pause and smell the roses on the side 
of the road. Plan some time for yoga or running in the late 
afternoons.
cancer
june 22july 22
No more drama this year with the guys or girls. Last year 
may have been a little too much for you to handle.
leo
july 23aug. 22 
Positive thinking is an essential factor when it comes to 
success. Think happier thoughts and even people around 
you will be happier.
virgo
aug. 23sept. 22
Let love blossom naturally. Dont be afraid this year to 
approach that special someone. Maybe he or she is 
thinking about you as well.
libra
sept. 23oct. 22
Be prepared for awkward moments and unfortunate 
failures. Disappointing moments are unavoidable, but 
always remember to pick yourself back up. Feel the fear, 
but do it anyways.
scorpio
oct. 23nov. 21
Dont forget about your friends this school year. They need 
you too! Try to find some extra time to spend with them and 
dont bury yourself with school work.
sagittarius
nov. 22dec. 21
Calm down on the technology usage. Even though the 
Internet basically consume our daily lives, be sure to rest 
your eyes before sleeping.
capricorn
dec. 22jan. 19
Plan ahead and make plenty of calendar reminders. This 
year try and be on time and on top of your schedule.
aquarius
jan. 20feb. 18
Set more realistic expectations for yourself this time around. 
Use your resources wisely and keep a tight schedule to 
keep off procrastination.
pisces
feb. 19march 20
Get more sleep! Studies say that sleep affects your daily 
productivity the most, which means planning ahead so you 
have more time to get those eight hours of rest.
Maryyann Landlord | Comics Editor
Crossword courtesy of BestCrosswords.com

---------------------------------------------------

calendar
pillbox 09.08.1411
MONDAY 09.08.14
Music for the Spirit. Allegheny Center Alliance Church. 
8 p.m.
Presented by the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra, this 
concert will feature the Pittsburgh Symphony Brass 
performing a program of works and readings exploring 
the spiritual nature and its in?uence on music. Admission 
is free and open to the public.
Foster the People. Stage AE. 8 p.m.
All the little kids with the pumped up kicks better run, 
better run, to the Foster the People show. Tickets are 
$35, and can be purchased at ticketmaster.com.
TUESDAY 09.09.14
Poogie Bell. Agnes Katz Plaza. 5 p.m.
Local renowned jazz drummer Poogie Bell will be 
performing in Agnes Katz Plaza as part of BNY Mellons 
ongoing JazzLive series. Admission is free and open to 
the public.
Tokyo Police Club. Altar Bar. 8 p.m.
Catch the indie alt-rockers behind hits such as Your 
English is Good and Wait Up at the Altar Bar, with 
Nevada Color playingh in support. Tickets start at $17 
and can be purchased at ticket?y.com.
WEDNESDAY 09.10.14
The Used and Taking Back Sunday. Stage AE. 8 p.m.
Your middle school self would probably write a really 
passive aggressive, yet emotionally poetic, AIM away 
message about you if you were to miss out on this one. 
Tickets are $28.50 and can be purchased at 
ticketmaster.com.
Wavves. Altar Bar. 8 p.m.
Skater slackers Wavves will be bringing a little bit of 
white-boy attitude as well as pop-leaning punk to 
Pittsburgh. Tickets start at $16.50 and can be purchased 
at ticketmaster.com.
THURSDAY 09.11.14
Decolonizing the Ear: The Reverberations 
of Vernacular Musics in the Era of Electrical 
Recording. Porter 100. 4:30 p.m.
Michael Denning, professor of American Studies at Yale 
University, will deliver a lecture focusing on the dramatic 
transformations that took place in vernacular music with 
the birth of electrical recording and broadcasting, and 
how this connects to the larger history of decolonization. 
This event is free and open to the public.
SATURDAY 09.13.14
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra with Anne-Sophie 
Mutter. Heinz Hall. 7 p.m.
Violinist Anne-Sophie Mutter will be joining the PSO for 
the ?rst of?cial performance of the season and will be 
featured on the Bruch Violin Concerto. Tickets start at 
$35 and can be purchased at trustarts.culturaldistrict.org.
Beatles 50th Anniversary Tribute. Benedum Center. 
8 p.m.
Taking place exactly 50 years after the Beatles played 
the Pittsburgh Civic Arena, this tribute concert will feature 
artists BEATLEMANIA NOW and will give attendees a 
chance to relive (or experience for the ?rst time) the 1964 
concert. Tickets start at $36.95 and can be purchased at 
trustarts.culturaldistrict.org.
SUNDAY 09.14.14
Carnegie Mellon University Philarmonic. Carnegie 
Music Hall. 7:30 p.m.
The evenings program will include soloist Joshua Burca 
on Jean Sibeliuss Violin Concerto in D Minor. Tickets are 
$5, but admission is free with a valid CMU ID.
Want your event here?
Email calendar@thetartan.org.
Classifieds
Two apartments located less than a block 
from Walnut Street in Shadyside on Ivy 
Street. 
 
Apartment #1:
One-bedroom with hardwood ?oors on the 
?rst ?oor. Central Air Conditioning, Laundry, 
Large Porch. 3 Units in the building. $1,175 
per month (includes heat) plus electric.
 
Apartment #2: 
Large two-bedroom unit on two levels with 
one-and-a-half baths, (hardwood ?oors), two 
balconies, Central Air Conditioning, Laundry.  
Just 3 doors from Walnut Street. 3 Units in 
building. $1,390 per month plus gas and 
electric.
Call (412) 362-5343 or email 
brourmont@gmail.com 

---------------------------------------------------

12gallery
pillbox 09.08.14
Maryyann Landlord | Comics Editor
The Activities Board welcomed students back to campus on Friday, 
Aug. 30 with a free concert on the CFA Lawn. Indie pop bands 
Miniature Tigers and Nevada Color performed, and ice cream sundaes 
were served in between the acts.
welcome back concert.
