PILLBOX
Carnegie Mellons student newspaper since 1906
CMU researcher predicts Facebooks future  A4Wild Party kicks off School of Drama Centennial  B6Track teams perform at Ohio State Tune-Up  A10
SPORTSSCITECH
thetartan.org
@thetartan
February 24, 2014
Volume 108, Issue 19
Under Construction helps students network
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
News Editor
Students of the Dietrich 
College of Humanities & Social Sciences ?led into the 
University Centers Rangos 
Hall Saturday morning, wearing neat business casual attire 
 for the most part  after an 
email from Siriana Abboud, 
sophomore psychology and 
French double major, warned 
that Wrinkled is good for raisins, but not for respect.
Abboud was one of the organizers of Under Construction: Building Your Future, 
the second annual Dietrich 
College career-building event. 
Under Construction began at 
10:30 a.m. and lasted until 
5:30 p.m., and included a 
keynote speech, panels, and a 
networking session complete 
with hors doeuvres.
Students reported to Rangos Hall ?rst for a welcome by 
the Dean of Dietrich College 
John Lehoczky. 
Today, this Under Construction event is a whole new 
approach to building your career, whether youre a sophomore, junior, or senior Lehoczky said. Today we have 
over 60 H&SS alums, who 
have come back just to support you.
Lehoczky stressed that the 
Dietrich College alumni who 
returned to Pittsburgh for the 
Senate presents First Lectures
Tuberculosis comes to CMU campus
BRENT HEARD 
Contributing Editor
On Feb. 11, an email was 
sent to the campus community about a case of tuberculosis (TB) on Carnegie Mellons 
campus, affecting a visiting researcher at the Heinz School.
The email, sent by director of Health Services Anita 
Barkin, said, at this point, it 
appears that the individuals 
contacts are limited to a small 
number of Heinz College community members.
On Feb. 10, the Allegheny 
County Health Department 
(ACHD) contacted Health 
Services regarding the researcher who had contracted 
the disease. According to the 
Centers for Disease Control 
and Preventions website, tuberculosis is caused by a bacterial infection which attacks 
the lungs, but TB bacteria 
can attack any part of the body 
such as the kidney, spine, and 
brain. If not treated properly, 
TB disease can be fatal.
Last Thursday Dr. Barkin 
reported to The Tartan, we 
have tested all of the close 
contacts and there are no additional active cases found.
The individuals who were 
tested were identi?ed as close 
contacts by the diagnosed person, and have all had negative 
results on their ?rst-round 
test.
 After eight to 10 weeks, 
they will be screened once 
again. You can convert from 
negative to positive and it 
ALVIN MATHEW
Assistant News Editor
Two Carnegie Mellon seniors recently gave 20-minute speeches about their experiences at the university. 
Hosted by Student Senate, 
the inaugural session of the 
First Lectures series took 
place on Thursday, Feb. 21 in 
Porter Hall. Senior chemistry major Lukas Ronner and 
senior chemical engineering 
major Michelle Ruiz were the 
two seniors selected to speak 
in the ?rst installment of the 
First Lectures.
The First Lectures was 
originally the brainchild of 
?rst-year economics and statistics double major, Vaasavi 
Unnava, a member-at-large 
in Student Senate. The title 
is a clear allusion to the title 
of the late Randy Pauschs 
The Last Lecture. In his lecture and subsequent book, 
Pausch discussed his journey 
through life and the dreams 
he accomplished.
The Last Lecture, which 
is distributed to incoming 
freshmen at the university 
during Orientation, had a 
strong impact on Unnava. According to Unnava, one of the 
books lines made her pause: 
Its not about how to achieve 
your dreams, its about how 
to lead your life.
Unnava stated she wanted 
to hear seniors ?rst lectures 
of the rest of their lives, and 
went to Student Senate with 
her idea.
In the ?rst part of the 
event, Ruiz talked about her 
odyssey at Carnegie Mellon. 
She talked about how she 
changed during her time at 
the university, saying, Freshman year is when you realize youre not in high school. 
And the sophomore transition is about what youre doing in life. My freshman year, 
I struggled academically. 
But I learned I was not the 
smartest, no longer the most 
involved student on campus. 
When I had a GPA below a 
3.0, I was shocked. This con?dent lady was a wreck. I had 
a low self-esteem of all sorts, 
and that was not like me.
But Ruiz did not let her 
?rst semester deter her. I 
was surrounded by mentors 
who said, Stop it right there; 
youre not alone. I sat in the 
front row and discovered the 
magic of [Hunt Library].
Ruiz urged students to 
take advantage of their time 
at Carnegie Mellon, saying 
during her speech, Theres 
more to CMU than books; 
theres opportunity. Despite 
her struggles, Ruiz had three 
internship offers by the end 
of her ?rst year.
Ruiz obtained an internship from ExxonMobil, where 
she met a valuable mentor, 
Greg. Greg pushed me for so 
many semesters, Ruiz said. 
After a couple years, hed say 
GPA is really important, but 
what happens here is more 
important. 
Ruiz said that her sophomore year taught her to value in quality not quantity; 
that she was not true to my 
potential to overextend myself, and that quitting is 
okay when setting long-term 
goals.
Ruiz communicated three 
lessons that she had learned 
to the audience: be humble, 
use small hiccups to propel you to where you want 
to be, and learn that every experience is a learning 
experience.
Ronner presented to the 
audience next. When students ?rst come to Carnegie 
Mellon, he said, Your mentality is to outcompete other 
people. And that mentality is 
wrong. Suddenly everything 
you do is on a stage. People 
were separated into smart 
and dumb. But you dont 
need to be a genius to change 
the world.
Ronner then gave anexample to illustrate his words. 
Mammograms dont cure 
cancer, he noted, but they 
still prevent people from dying. Some people are born 
with talents and aptitudes 
that are inherent to them. I 
can never be like them. I need 
to do it my own way.
Ronner wants to change 
the grade-driven mentality 
harbored by students. When 
I stopped worrying about 
stupid things, the grades 
Jason Chen/Assistant Photo Editor
Dietrich College students discussed their career interests with alumni in their ?elds at lunch during Under Construction, a career networking event. 
See OUTBREAK, A3
Courtesy of Vaasavi Unnava
Chemistry major Lukas Ronner and chemical engineering major 
Michelle Ruiz, both seniors, spoke on their experiences at Carnegie 
Mellon during Student Senates First Lectures event. 
See CONSTRUCTION, A3
See LECTURES, A3
Eunice Oh/Staff Artist

---------------------------------------------------

Starting July 1, current 
head of the philosophy department Richard Scheines 
will become the new Dean of 
the Dietrich College of Humanities & Social Sciences. 
Scheines, replacing the 
current Dean of Dietrich College, Thomas Lord professor 
of statistics John Lehoczky, 
has been head of the department of philosophy since 
2005. Scheines has also 
served on three National 
Academy of Sciences committees as casual methodologist since 2005.  
According to an email 
sent out by Provost and Executive Vice President Mark 
Kamlet, he is extraordinarily well suited to be the Dietrich Colleges next dean.
Scheines has had many 
successes as head of the department of philosophy, the 
email says. Under his leadership the department has 
thrived in both research and 
education. External research 
funding has more than tripled and is supporting interdisciplinary research in 
statistics, machine learning, 
brain science, mathematics, 
and other ?elds.
Scheines was chosen as 
Dean by the Dietrich College Dean Search Committee, which was chaired by 
Richard G. Tucker, the Paul 
Mellon University professor 
of applied linguistics. 
Lehoczky had been Dean 
of Dietrich College since 
2000. After Scheines takes 
over, Lehoczky will resume 
his role as a professor in the 
department of statistics. A 
celebration of Lehoczkys 
time at Carnegie Mellon is 
slated for later this spring.
Coordinator of Student 
Activities Tim Leonard gave a 
presentation to Student Senate to ask that they pass a recommendation to increase the 
Arts Pass Program line item in 
next years Senates budget to 
$26,000. A motion was made 
to decrease the recommendation to $21,000, the amount 
granted to Arts Pass Program 
this academic year after the 
vote to increase the line item 
earlier in the meeting.
To guarantee the sustainability of the Arts Pass program, a motion was made to 
request that a plan for sustainability be provided to Senate 
when the allocation is dispensed next semester. Senate 
passed the recommendation; 
although this recommendation 
does not allocate any money, 
it requests that next years 
Senate stay true to the recommended budget.
Last academic year, Student Senate allocated $16,500 
in its budget for the Arts Pass 
Program. The program is running a de?cit because of two 
events at Phipps Conservatory: the corpse ?ower blooming and the Winter Light Garden Flower Show. Students 
receive free admissions to 
Phipps Conservatory under 
the program.
Coordinator of Student 
Activities Tim Leonard asked 
Senate for an additional 
$4,500 to cover the $9,000 
de?cit that the Arts Pass program is projected to run this 
year.
A motion was made and 
passed to raise the Arts Pass 
Program line item in Senates 
budget to $21,000 to meet 
Student Activities request.
SUNDAY
High / Low
30 / 17
A2  thetartan.org/news The Tartan  February 24, 2014
Corrections & Clari?cations
If you would like to submit a correction or clari?cation, 
please email The Tartan at news@thetartan.org or 
editor@thetartan.org with your inquiry, as well as the 
date of the issue and the name of the article. We will 
print the correction or clari?cation in the next print 
issue and publish it online.
NEWS IN BRIEFStudents get creative with snow on the Cut 
WEATHER
Assisting an Outside 
Agency
Feb. 15, 2014
The Pittsburgh Bureau of 
Police informed University 
Police that two Carnegie Mellon students were arrested for 
various offenses in Shadyside. 
The two students were allegedly involved in a physical 
altercation and were heavily 
intoxicated. Charges include, 
but are not limited to, assault, public intoxication, and 
presenting false ID to law enforcement.
Odor of Marijuana
Feb. 16, 2014
University Police were 
summoned to the third ?oor of 
Morewood Gardens E-Tower 
after receiving a report of an 
odor of marijuana. Of?cers arrived on scene and con?rmed 
that the rooms occupant was 
smoking marijuana before 
the of?cers arrival. The male 
was cited by University Police 
using the Carnegie Mellon internal discipline system due to 
his extreme cooperation with 
University Police.
Disorderly Conduct
Feb. 17, 2014
University Police were 
summoned to the University 
Center loading dock after a 
CulinArt employee reported 
a verbal argument between 
a former employee and a 
kitchen supervisor. University 
Police separated the involved 
parties. The reporting person 
stated that he did not wish 
to pursue legal charges. The 
former employee was issued 
a de?ant trespass warning letter, forbidding him to return 
to Carnegie Mellons leased or 
owned property.
Unauthorized Use of ID 
Card
Feb. 17, 2014
University Police were 
alerted that a Carnegie Mellon Escort Service shuttle 
driver con?scated a Carnegie 
Mellon ID card after an unidenti?ed male tried to use 
the card, which did not belong 
to him. University Police are 
working to identify the male, 
but he currently remains unidenti?ed. The ID card was returned to the rightful student, 
who stated that she lost the ID 
days before.
Hit and Run 
Feb. 18, 2014
University Police are following up with a hit-and-run 
incident that occurred in the 
UC turnaround. The victim 
stated that the driver left the 
scene as the two parties were 
exchanging insurance and 
contact information. The victim stated that she can positively identify the other driver. 
This investigation is ongoing.
Theft of iPhone
Feb. 18, 2014
A Carnegie Mellon student 
reported his iPhone stolen after he left it with his personal 
belongings in Wiegand Gymnasium. The victim stated that 
the phone was stolen between 
910 p.m. This investigation is 
ongoing.
Theft of Backpack
Feb. 20, 2014
A Carnegie Mellon visitor 
working as a recruiter in the 
University Center reported his 
backpack missing. The victim 
stated that he placed his backpack under a table in Rangos 
Hall at 12 p.m. and noticed 
that his backpack was missing at around 4:40 p.m. This 
investigation is ongoing.
Theft of Bicycle
Feb. 20, 2014
A Carnegie Mellon student 
reported his bicycle stolen 
from the bike rack at Hunt Library. The victim stated that 
his GMC Denali Road Bike was 
stolen from the rack between 
Feb. 10Feb. 20. The victim 
con?rmed that he did not secure the bicycle using a cable 
lock.
Campus Crime & Incident Reports
After a weekend snowstorm coated Carnegie Mellons campus in inches of snow, students celebrated winter by building a snowman on the Cut. 
Source: www.weather.com
FEATURE PHOTO
Recently, Dean of the 
School of Computer Science 
Randy Bryant sent an email 
out to the college relaying 
that Director of the Human 
Computer Interaction Institute (HCII) Justine Cassell 
has stepped down. 
According to the email, 
Cassell is stepping down from 
her role as director of the 
HCII in favor of a newly created position, assistant vice 
provost of technology strategy and impact.
Given the many duties 
this position will require, 
Justine has decided to step 
down from the directorship 
of the HCII at the end of this 
academic year, Bryant said 
in the email. I am consulting 
with university administration on how we will make the 
transition to new leadership. 
She will, of course, remain 
a member of our faculty as 
well.
In this new position, the 
email says, Cassell will provide important leadership to 
university-level strategic initiatives, such as the recently 
announced Simon Initiative 
in human learning.
Justine Cassell holds dual 
Ph.D degrees in psychology 
and linguistics from the University of Chicago, as well 
as degrees from institutions 
in Scotland and France, and 
has worked at Northwestern 
University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
As director of the HCII, 
Cassell has made many improvements, including outstanding new additions to 
the faculty; programmatic 
growth of the Institutes educational programs; signi?-
cant, successful fundraising 
efforts; the establishment of 
the Masters in Educational 
Technology and Applied 
Learning Sciences; and the 
enhancement of HCIIs physical facilities, the email says. 
HCII Director Cassell steps down
Dietrich College names new Dean
Arts Pass Program Presentation: Tim LeonardBudget Change Discussion
STUDENT SENATE MEETING MINUTES
FRIDAY
High / Low
24 / 11
SATURDAY
High / Low
26 / 3
TUESDAY
High / Low
29 / 19
WEDNESDAY
High / Low
20 / 15
THURSDAY
High / Low
26 / 8
Compiled by
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
Compiled by
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
Special Allocation: CMU in Haiti
CMU in Haiti is a new organization that is planning a 
spring break trip to Haiti to 
build communities and form 
a long-lasting communal 
bond. Nine students and two 
professors will be traveling to 
Haiti from March 914. CMU 
in Haiti requested $5,500 to 
cover their travel and lodging 
costs.
Because the two professors going on the trip do not 
pay the student activities fee, 
which funds Senates special 
allocations, a motion was 
made to reduce the allocation to $4,500  since each 
traveler accounted for $500 
of the request  which Student Senate then granted to 
CMU in Haiti.
Jonathan Leung/Staff Photographer

---------------------------------------------------

February 24, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/news  A3
Dietrich College alumni share experiences in Under Construction
event were the key to Under 
Constructions success. Not 
only do [these alumni] represent a huge range of different 
career paths  from advertising to international development to health care to creative 
arts and entertainment  but 
most importantly they are 
H&SS graduates, Lehoczky 
said. They understand your 
college experience and your 
career search dilemma. They 
fully understand the challenges, because they faced exactly 
those challenges when they 
were students here. They are 
volunteering to be resources 
for you.
Lehoczky also introduced 
Under Constructions keynote 
speaker, Terry Babcock-Lumish (H&SS 97). BabcockLumish graduated from the 
College of Humanities and 
Social Sciences with a B.S. in 
policy and management. She 
is currently president of Islay 
Consulting LLC, an economic, policy, and political consultancy she founded in 2005 to 
meet the needs of innovative 
global clients committed to effecting positive change, from 
local to global, according to 
the events program.
Babcock-Lumish broke her 
advice into three discrete lessons. Babock-Lumishs ?rst 
adage was semper gumby, 
meaning always ?exible. 
Babcock-Lumish warned students against planning their 
lives down to the moment; 
she stressed how important 
it is to adapt to unexpected 
circumstances. 
Babcock-Lumish gave the 
example of meeting her husband as an unexpected event 
that changed her life. He was 
not in the plan, she said. We 
cant plan for everything in 
life, like falling in love with 
someone that was geographically inconvenient, who also 
has a turbo career and their 
own timeline.
Babcock-Lumish next advised the students to optimize 
their rsums because the 
reality is, weve got to fall in 
love with you in two dimensions with that rsum, before 
we can ever meet you and invite you to the interview to 
fall in love with you in three 
dimensions.
The keynote speakers 
last lesson was a simple 
reminder that undergraduates 
and alumni alike were still 
under construction, comparing them to the construction 
site that was the University 
Center when she graduated in 
1997. Regardless of where we 
are in our lives, in our careers, 
we are all under construction, 
Babcock-Lumish said.
After the keynote speech, 
Dietrich students engaged in 
lunchtime discussions with 
Dietrich College alumni at 
tables that were divided by industries. 
Following the lunch and 
keynote speech, Under Construction attendees went to 
two panels they had chosen 
when they registered, on topics ranging from technology to 
editing and publishing to public health, health policy, and 
health professions. In each 
of these panels, a few alumni 
spoke about their experiences 
and how undergradutes can 
get started in the ?eld.
The next piece of Under 
Construction was a student 
internship panel, in which ?ve 
undergraduate Dietrich students, including sophomore 
international relations and 
politics major Nol Um, senior 
economics and professional 
writing double major Zaneta 
Grant, junior professional 
writing major Lauren Williams, senior economics major 
Michael Shin, and senior ethics, history, and public policy 
major Lara Dorko, spoke about 
their own internship experiences.
Finally, students networked 
with alumni back in Rangos 
Hall while eating ?nger foods.
Sanjana Baldwa, sophomore psychology major, said 
she thought Under Construction was a good effort on behalf of Dietrich College to help 
students network and see what 
they can do with their degrees 
in the humanities and social 
sciences. I really liked all of 
the different alumni; I think 
it was really cool to hear all of 
their different stories, and see 
what they do, Baldwa said. It 
was a good event for networking  just things to look out 
for and people to reach out to 
if [students] need a mentor or 
something.
Editors Note: Nol Um is assistant news editor of The Tartan, and Lauren Williams is a 
staffwriter. 
Ronner and Ruiz give advice
came, Ronner said. The 
sleep makes you happy. Ive 
?gured out the world is yours, 
as long as you see yourself in 
absolutes.
Ruiz, born in Ecuador and 
raised in Miami, Fla., is a sister in the sorority Tri Delta 
and community advisor for 
Donner House. 
She has also served as a 
Sexual Assault Advisor and 
a SafeZone advisor for members of the LGBTQ community and has been involved with 
organizations like the Society 
of Hispanic Professional Engineers and Dancers Symposium. She will work in 
Virginia for ExxonMobil after 
gradation.
Ronner is from Haddon?eld, N.J., and has been a resident assistant, Orientation 
Counselor, and ScotchnSoda 
member in the past, and is 
currently chair of Student 
Senate.
Unnava said that it was 
dif?cult to choose the seniors 
who would speak in the lecture series. There were 31 
nominations, which wasnt 
expected, Unnava said in an 
interview. We put together a 
rubric based on novelty, clarity, organization, impact and 
depth. We assembled scores 
and looked at the top 20. It 
was really hard to make that 
decision because everyone 
was really good. And then, 
we had to ?nd our top six and 
tried to get the event logistically together. 
For seniors not selected, 
Unnava said, We put together a video of things they 
learned.
Unnava said, Kids that 
are there want to get things 
done and want to make an 
impact on their community. 
Theyre not afraid to say, Hey, 
lets start something new. 
Campus visitor contracts TB
doesnt mean youre contagious, Barkin explained, noting that without symptoms of 
active TB, an individual may 
have latent TB, which can be 
treated with medication.
Madelyn Miller, director 
of Environmental Health and 
Safety, said, We followed Allegheny Countys guidance 
and our own guidelines, revealing that they spoke with 
the diagnosed individual as 
well as the people who had 
been in close, constant contact with the person.
To send out a mass communication would have been 
ineffective, Miller explained. 
We had to do this on a personal level. We were being 
ultra cautious, and contacted 
anyone who he could have 
breathed or coughed on.
Barkins email warned, It 
is important to know that you 
can only contact TB bacteria if 
you spend time near someone 
with TB disease, adding, the 
TB bacteria are put into the 
air when a person with active 
TB disease coughs, sneezes, 
speaks, or sings. It is not possible, however, to contract 
the disease from exposure 
to clothes, glasses, utensils, 
handshakes, toilets, or other 
surfaces with which people 
may touch.
Miller recalled that the 
university underwent a desktop drill simulating a meningitis outbreak in August, similar to a the recent outbreak at 
Princeton University. 
It was clear that we could 
handle a meningitis outbreak, 
which is much more contagious than tuberculosis, Miller said.
If anyone has questions 
regarding the TB case or 
wishes to be tested they 
should call Health Services at 
(412) 268-2157.
Jason Chen/Assistant Photo Editor
Dietrich College Dean John Lechoczky gave the welcome (bottom left) for keynote speaker Terry Babcock-Lumish (right), whose speech led into a lunch table colloquium organized by ?eld of interest (top left). 
From OUTBREAK, A1
From CONSTRUCTION, A1
From LECTURES, A1
FEATURE PHOTO
MOSAIC gives students opportunity to discuss abortion
Jonathan Leung/Photo Editor
Carnegie Mellons Program for Deliberative Democracy hosted After Roe ... A Discussion on Reproductive Rights last Sunday in the University Centers Rangos Hall. The event focused on sparking a conversation about abortion; students pictured are discussing Moving Beyond the Picket Lines  The Issue of Abortion in America.

---------------------------------------------------

A4  thetartan.org/scitech The Tartan  February 24, 2014
TechBridgeWorld hosts biennial event
Abhinav Gautam/Staff Photographer
TechBridgeWorld, a research group started from within the Robotics Institute, hosted an event that showcased their mission and their research.  
BROOKE KUEI
SciTech Editor
While many of us curse in 
frustration when our sleek, 
advanced laptops occasionally crash or when our touchscreen smartphones sometimes lose signal, there are 
people in developing countries and individuals with disabilities that do not even have 
the luxury of the technology 
we take for granted. While 
there are many organizations 
with goals to provide aid and 
relief to communities in need, 
Carnegie Mellon is tackling 
this global issue in a unique 
way: through technology.
TechBridgeWorld  a research group founded by associate research professor at 
the Robotics Institute M. Bernardine Dias  aims to use 
innovative technology to create solutions for sustainable 
development. We build partnerships with underserved 
communities in the U.S. and 
around the world to create 
culturally appropriate technology that adheres to each 
communitys vision of progress, and to inspire and train 
future researchers and technologists, said Ermine Teves, 
TechBridgeWorld project assistant, in an email.
To celebrate their 10-year 
anniversary, the research 
group hosted a biennial 
TechBridgeWorld Interactive 
last Thursday in the NewellSimon Hall Perlis Atrium. 
The event raised awareness 
of global development needs 
and showcased TechBridgeWorlds research to the campus community. Sponsors for 
the event included the Robotics Institute, Diyunu Consulting, LLC, the Presidents Of?ce, the Of?ce of the Dean of 
Student Affairs, the School of 
Computer Science, the Heinz 
School, and Google.
Aptly named, TechBridgeWorld Interactive was designed so that participants 
could actively learn about 
TechBridgeWorlds mission 
through different games and 
challenges. 
TechBridgeWorld Interactive focused on two speci?c 
themes: navigation for the 
visually impaired, and literacy. The theme of navigation 
for the visually impaired was 
explored through different 
activities and poster presentations along the left side of the 
Perlis Atrium, while the theme 
of literacy was demonstrated 
through another row of presentations along the right side 
of the Perlis Atrium.
The ?rst challenge for the 
theme of visual impairment 
required participants to wear 
goggles that simulated the 
sight of an individual who is 
completely blind in the right 
eye and partially blind in the 
left eye. Another visual impairment challenge involved 
attempting to give directions 
to a blind person. Participants 
were given the map of a hotel and had to describe how 
to get from the entrance to a 
speci?c room in the hotel as if 
they were giving directions to 
someone who was blind. This 
challenge made it evident that 
simply telling someone who is 
visually impaired to turn left 
or right is insuf?cient; successful navigation requires 
describing nearby familiar 
sounds or smells, or a speci?c 
number of steps to take. 
Also on the left side of the 
room was a solution to aiding the visually impaired. 
The project was called Wrist 
Ranger and is the product of 
a Small Undergraduate Research Grant (SURG). The 
members of the research 
group were sophomore electrical and computer engineering and robotics double major 
Clayton Ritcher, sophomore 
electrical and computer engineering major Nora Shoemaker, and junior electrical and 
computer engineering major 
Vivek Nair. Their research advisor was Dias. According to 
their poster, the motivation 
of the project was to ?nd an 
effective way to provide the 
visually impaired with spatial 
feedback of their surroundings. The device is essentially 
a wristband with sensors that 
can use haptic feedback to inform users of how close the 
wristband is to an object.
The right side of the Perlis Atrium included challenges 
and presentations for the issue of literacy. In the ?rst 
challenge, participants had 
to watch videos in different 
languages, such as Arabic, 
Chinese, or Spanish. The purpose of this exercise was to 
give the participant a feeling 
of how confused one might 
feel while in a country that 
predominantly speaks an unfamiliar language. The second 
literacy challenge asked the 
participant to label the United 
States, Bangladesh, Uruguay, 
Ghana, Qatar, and Tanzania 
on a world map. These are 
all countries in which TechBridgeWorld has partners.
After these challenges 
were a number of poster presentations by the students of 
the course 15-239, Software 
Development for Social Good. 
Last year, the course partnered with TechBridgeWorld 
and our existing projects to 
produce free and open-source 
software products of real and 
immediate value, from assisting the blind to teaching 
English to migrant workers, 
Teves said.
Students in this course 
are given the task of creating 
educational games for audiences with speci?c types of 
needs. For example, sophomore computer science major 
Abdel Bourai, masters student in mechanical engineering Reese Deng, junior computer science major Madeline 
Horowitz, and junior electrical and computer engineering major Erik Pintar created 
the game Dream Explorer for 
students of the Western Pennsylvania School for the Deaf. 
The team designed their game 
using the knowledge that the 
deaf students were especially 
perceptive to spatial distances. In their game, the player 
had to explore a planet while 
looking for ?ying bats and 
were asked educational questions whenever a bat was 
captured.
Another group, whose 
members were senior computer science majors Benjamin 
Choi and Isaac Lim and junior computer science majors 
Nivedita Chopra and Kechun 
Mao, is working with Reach 
Out To Asia (ROTA) to create 
a game for their Adult English Literacy program (RAEL). 
This game, called Jump!, was 
designed to teach English to 
migrant workers in Qatar and 
required the user to interact with different characters 
in the game by ?lling in the 
blanks for incomplete sentences using correct grammar. 
By answering these questions 
correctly, the user gains various power-ups such as speed 
or higher jumping abilities. 
All of the 15-239 projects presented at TechBridgeWorld Interactive are still prototypes.
TechBridgeWorld is grounded at a university that is a 
world leader in technology 
innovation and has partners 
all across the globe. With 
such a strong community behind it, TechBridgeWorld has 
the potential to revolutionize 
technologies for communities 
in need, such as developing 
countries or individuals with 
disabilities.
 
Nivedita Chopra is a staffwriter 
for The Tartan.
Researcher pro?le: Jeffrey O. Hollinger
CLAIRE GIANAKAS
Staffwriter
Bone regeneration, the 
renewal of lost or damaged 
bone, is an important life process, yet it can also be harmful. Pathological bone often 
forms after orthopedic surgery or amputation and can 
lead to further complications 
in recovery. Jeffrey Hollinger, 
professor of biological sciences and biomedical engineering at Carnegie Mellon University, as well as the director 
of Carnegie Mellons Bone 
Tissue Engineering Center, is 
leading research to develop 
polymer-based treatments to 
eradicate pathological bone 
formation in soft tissue.
Despite his current position, Hollinger did not always 
plan on a career in biomedical engineering. Originally 
studying to be a dentist, Hollinger joined the Army where 
he began in general dentistry 
and eventually worked in oral 
surgery at the Walter Reed 
Army Institute of Research 
(WRAIR).
Hollinger obtained his 
Ph.D. in oncology through 
the army, after which he became the director of the bone 
program for the U.S. Army 
Institute of Dental Research. 
The teams research involved 
disassembling bone and analyzing its structure. They determined that bone contains 
organic and inorganic components along with cells, and investigated the use of synthetic 
polymers seated with inorganic compounds.
Hollinger notes that much 
of their success came from 
the extensive funding they 
acquired. We had money, 
we had people, and we had 
?ve thousand square feet of 
lab space, Hollinger said. 
Most of the ideas failed, but 
we published a lot and we 
were successful at getting Department of Defense grants. I 
think I was dead and gone to 
heaven.
After retiring from the 
Army, Hollinger moved to 
Oregon and worked as a professor at the Oregon Health 
& Science University and 
the director of the Northwest Wound Healing Center. 
There, Hollinger continued 
his research with bone regeneration. We had grants 
from the National Institutes of 
Health, the National Institute 
of Standards and Technology, 
as well as corporate grants, 
Hollinger said. We worked 
with organic matrices. We had 
a strong organic chemistry 
group, as well as a strong inorganic chemistry group.
In 1999, Hollinger attended a Gordon Research 
Model forecasts the future of Facebook
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
News Editor
Herbert A. Simon, one 
of the founders of Carnegie 
Mellons School of Computer Science and winner of 
both the ACM Turing Award 
in 1975 and the Nobel Prize 
in Economics in 1978, said 
in a 1971 lecture that in an 
information-rich world, the 
wealth of information means 
a dearth of something else: a 
scarcity of whatever it is that 
information consumes. What 
information consumes is 
rather obvious: it consumes 
the attention of its recipients. 
Hence a wealth of information creates a poverty of attention and a need to allocate that attention ef?ciently 
among the overabundance 
of information sources that 
might consume it. 
It was Simons work in the 
late 1960s and 70s, when 
computer science was still a 
nascent ?eld, that inspired 
Bruno Ribeiro, a postdoctoral 
fellow in the School of Computer Science, to research 
how social websites fare with 
respect to how much information they produce versus 
consume.
In his paper, Modeling 
and Predicting the Growth 
and Death of Membershipbased Websites, Ribeiro created a mathematical model 
that predicts the rise and fall 
of membership-based websites, including Facebook and 
The Huf?ngton Post, as well 
as smaller, more niche sites 
like TeaPartyPatriots.org and 
OccupyWallSt.org.
This idea started when 
I read this Herbert A. Simon 
lecture; he gave a lecture in 
1969 about the role that computers play in what we call the 
market space of attention. At 
the time, people thought that 
computers were going to help 
them with the 60s information overload, Ribeiro said 
in an interview. A website 
keeps our attention only if it 
thinks more than it speaks; 
if it receives more attention 
than it gives others.
According to the abstract 
of Ribeiros paper, his models rely on six years of information about the daily 
active users (DAU) for 22 
membership-based websites, including online social networks, grassroots 
movements, online forums, 
and membership-only Internet stores  well balanced 
between successes and failures. Ribeiro noted that his 
research looks at not just how 
many members these websites have, but how many active versus inactive members 
there are. The model is more 
interested not in the number 
of users, but rather if they are 
active users or not. Nobody 
thinks that MySpace is a 
great website  it has many 
millions of users, too, but no 
one goes there.
Websites rely heavily 
on user-generated content, 
Ribeiro said. For instance, 
when you go on Facebook, 
you see what your friends did 
 you comment, you like, 
and then you can also share 
something. Facebook allows 
you to create content that 
captures a larger share of attention from your friends, so 
they will also create content 
that captures a larger share 
of activity from you, creating 
a feedback loop of attention 
that attracts users.
Ribeiros model relies on 
a complex series of reactions 
that describe mathematically 
how users interact with each 
other and attract new users 
through the content they generate. Ribeiro stressed that 
the success of membershipbased websites is heavily tied 
to how much attention users 
have to give to a website in 
relation to how much attention they are receiving from 
their friends and other users. 
The attention that youre 
willing to dedicate to Facebook and other websites is a 
limited resource, and it will 
eventually stabilize, Ribeiro 
said. On the other hand, if 
your attention is less than 
the attention of your friends, 
this will create a negative 
slope that drives the website 
to its death. Ribeiros paper 
predicts that Facebook has 
years of remaining popularity, in direct contrast with the 
widely publicized Princeton 
University research paper, 
Epidemiological Modeling 
of Online Social Network Dynamics, by Ph.D. students in 
the universitys mechanical 
and aerospace engineering 
department John Cannarella 
and Joshua A. Spechler. They 
predicted the impending decline of the social networking 
giant, which just celebrated 
its tenth anniversary. 
While Spechler and Cannarella write in their paper 
that Facebook is just beginning to show the onset of 
an abandonment phase, 
Ribeiro writes that one of 
the most remarkable predictions of our model is the long 
term stabilization of the DAU 
of self-sustaining websites, 
including Facebook. Ribeiro 
hopes that his research can 
serve as a basis for further 
research on the interplay between membership-based websites and social capital.
Social capital, Ribeiro 
said, is a very vital and wellstudied area, a ?eld where 
the idea is that you can make 
people do things for you like 
with money or wealth, but 
not using money, just using 
social capital.  
Ribeiro thinks that membership-based websites could 
use users desire for social 
capital to build their active 
user base. 
A way to make sure you 
do something is to make 
sure youre gaining if you 
do something [on the website] and losing if you dont. 
A great example is the way 
if a friend of yours posts 
something on Facebook, this 
person expects that you will 
help spread, or like, or do 
something about it to spread 
the news. In that sense, the 
website is using your social 
capital to generate activity.
Ribeiro recommends that 
those who are interested 
in his research also look to 
Herbert Simons works. Its 
amazing; it really gives a 
sense of how to think about 
the future.
Courtesy of Bruno Ribeiro
Bruno Ribeiro created a model to track social media membership.
See BONE, A5

---------------------------------------------------

February 24, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/scitech  A5
PUGWASH COLUMNMilitary and surveillance drones have pros and cons
ROB MACEDO
Special to The Tartan
This week at Pugwash, the 
topic of discussion was drones 
 more speci?cally, the 
moral implications of using 
drones, or Unmanned Aerial 
Vehicles (UAVs), for military 
and surveillance purposes.
First discussed was the 
utility of drones. One argument is that drones lead to 
far lower civilian casualty 
rates. While foot soldiers can 
accidentally execute civilians 
during raids, a drone can directly target an enemy and 
avoid the confusion that may 
occur with ground soldiers. 
Additionally, drones do not 
have families, so losing a UAV 
is purely an economic issue, 
much different from losing 
a soldier. This positivism toward UAVs caused an immediate stir among Pugwash. 
Some members rebutted that 
a drone may be more algorithmic than a human, but it uses 
missiles to take out enemies. 
Thus, while a human can accidentally kill a civilian located 
near a target, a drone would 
de?nitely kill every civilian 
near the target. In terms of 
preventing unnecessary civilian casualties, this point does 
not make drones preferable.
Slate magazine quotes 
statistics which show that 
drones lead to less civilian casualties than ground soldiers, 
but these statistics cannot always be trusted because it is 
unclear in some cases who is 
considered a nearby civilian.
The ability to attach cameras on drones poses another 
advantage. The cameras do 
not allow ?ghters to commit atrocities without some 
form of video evidence being released. A human could 
remove a camera from their 
head before committing a 
terrible act, while a drone 
could not  that is, unless 
said drone was being controlled by someone wishing 
to commit such atrocities. In 
this case, the use of the drone 
could make matters worse, as 
the human controller would 
have the ability to cause harm 
without having to experience such carnage in person. 
Would this detachment reduce the self-moral questioning that accompanies committing lethal acts in person? 
Is a drone the perfect type of 
killing machine?
Next, surveillance drones 
in the United States were 
discussed. The concern was 
raised that the propagation of 
such UAVs will lead to a society where we are consistently 
being watched. 
Furthermore, unlike a security camera, a surveillance 
drone can follow people. Is 
this type of society one we 
want to inhabit, or is it a small 
price to pay in return for the 
propagation of a technology that could deliver books 
to citizens through Amazon 
20 minutes after an order is 
placed? Additionally, an increase in surveillance will 
reduce the possibility of being wrongly convicted of an 
action. It was discussed that 
if one is a good, law-abiding 
citizen, they should have 
nothing to hide. An objection 
was raised that there may be 
more justice, but there would 
be less forgiveness. If one 
makes a mistake, it is written 
in stone. This issue already 
occurs in the online world. 
Do we want to extend this 
hyper awareness to our physical world, or is this Orwellian 
utopia a nightmare?
As with many topics of 
Pugwash meetings, there was 
no de?nite answer to the objective morality of drones. 
However, there was a collectively deeper understanding 
of the controversy surrounding UAVs.
Student Pugwash is a nonadvocacy, educational organization that meets on a weekly 
basis to discuss the implications 
of science, technology, and 
medicine in society. This article 
is a summary of last weeks discussion on drone regulation.
Alison Chiu/Staff Artist
SCITECH BRIEFS
Region in the brain gives dogs ability to detect emotions
Researchers from Hungary 
may have uncovered part of 
the reason dogs seem so attuned to our feelings. Speci?-
cally, scientists have identi?ed 
particular regions of the dog 
brain that may help dogs identify different emotions in our 
voices. This region works very 
similarly to the voice-detection device in human brains. 
For the experiments, dogs had 
their brains scanned by an MRI 
while listening to over 200 human voices and dog sounds.
Training dogs to sit still in 
a scanner for 10 minutes was 
an immense task in itself. Researchers used typical training methods such as treats 
and praise, but also used more 
experienced dogs to serve 
as models for younger dogs. 
Once inside the MRI, the dogs 
had headphones that emitted 
noises from humans, dogs, 
and other objects like a phone. 
The ?ndings were published in 
Current Biology.
Source: NPR
Deadly virus is spreading among British bumblebees
Honey bees may be the culprit in the alarming rate of viral infections in Britains bumblebee population, according 
to a recent study published 
in Nature by Mark Brown and 
Matthias Frst of the University of London.
Deformed wing virus 
(DWV) can be transmitted to 
bumblebees by two methods. 
Although DWV can be transmitted between worker bees 
without issue, a mite can serve 
as a carrier and infect bee pupae. Infection can result in 
young bees with severe deformities, including bloated abdomens and crumpled wings.
Researchers believe the virus originally started in honey 
bee populations and then 
moved on to wild bumblebees; 
genetic analysis of the virus 
inside both species indicate 
that the virus is the same. The 
study found that the virus was 
found in 11 percent of wild 
bumblebees.
Source: ScienceInsider
Solar DNA tests detect cancer without electricity
Engineers at Cornell University have developed a device that needs only sunlight, a 
smartphone, and a DNA sample to diagnose Kaposis sarcoma, a common AIDS-related 
cancer. The device, called 
KS-Detect, is currently being 
tested in Uganda. Kaposis 
sarcoma is caused by a herpes 
virus and is tested in laboratories using polymerase chain 
reaction (PCR), which detects 
the presence of the virus. PCR 
requires precise temperature 
conditions to work properly.
KS-Detect uses a special 
lens that captures the suns ray 
in a small disc of light where 
the edges are cooler than the 
center. The DNA sample moves 
through an etched channel in 
the devices and alternates between different temperatures. 
A special dye glows blue if 
there is detection of the herpes 
virus in the sample, and the attached smartphone is able to 
read the results.
Source: New Scientist
Elephants observed to show empathy toward each other
Although elephants have 
long been observed to show 
care toward each other, a recent study con?rms the notion 
that elephants can express empathy and even console each 
other. Researchers from Thailand and the United States 
compared elephants behavior 
during times of stress to times 
when little upset them. The 
researchers observed Asian elephants in a large, 80-acre reserve in Thailand. They found 
that if an elephant was stressed 
by some outside cause  such 
as an angry elephant or a loud 
dog walking by  other elephants would come over and 
soothe the worried elephant. 
These helper elephants would 
display similar emotions and 
caress the worried elephant 
with their trunks. Comparing these stressful situations 
to a control, the researchers 
deduced that elephants can 
recognize distress in fellow 
elephants.
Source: ScienceInsider
Iron de?ciency may be linked to higher chance of stroke
Recent ?ndings by scientists from Imperial College London indicate that an 
iron de?ciency  a condition which two billion people 
worldwide have  may increase stroke risk by making 
the blood stickier. Scientists 
looked at blood samples of 
patients and found a correlation between iron de?ciency 
and increased risk of stroke. 
Upon further examination of 
the platelets, they found that 
the platelets from low-iron 
individuals were much more 
likely to clump together under 
certain triggers.
The researchers believe 
this predisposition to clumping may be one of the reasons 
for increased stroke risk, although further research is required to con?rm this link. 
In the future, these researchers hope to study 
whether the platelets will become less sticky when the iron 
de?ciency is treated. 
Source: ScienceDaily
Europe to launch hunt for Earth-like exoplanets in 2024
The European Space Agency has recently announced 
the Planetary Transits and 
Oscillations of stars (PLATO) 
mission, which is intended 
to discover more Earthlike 
exoplanets. 
PLATO will begin in 2024 
and will endeavor to ?nd hundreds of rocky planets in habitable zones. PLATO will utilize 
the transmit method, which 
looks at the dimming light of 
a star once a planet is in front 
of it. This process can be time 
consuming because it requires 
the observation of many stars. 
To bypass this issue, PLATO 
will use 34 smaller telescopes 
in order to have a large ?eld of 
view.
The mission will be 
launched from French Guiana 
and will operate approximately 1.5 million kilometers from 
Earth.
Source: Science Insider
Compiled By
MICHAEL SETZER
Hollinger starts out in the Army and ends up in academia 
Conference  a prestigious, 
international scienti?c conference  at the Holderness 
School in New Hampshire and 
was invited to give a seminar 
at Carnegie Mellon on tissue 
engineering.
 I had never heard the 
term tissue engineer before 
... I dont consider myself an 
engineer, Hollinger said. 
Hollinger explained that his 
seminar, despite being geared 
more toward medical students, still contained engineering concepts. I explained 
how we took apart bone and 
discovered it was made of 
collagen, an inorganic component, and cells. I think it 
resonated with them because 
engineers take things apart to 
make them work better. After his lecture, Hollinger was 
offered a position at Carnegie Mellon as a professor of 
biological sciences and biomedical engineering. I had 
never worked with engineers 
before, Hollinger said. It 
took some getting used to.
Today, Hollinger is part of 
a research team at Carnegie 
Mellon that is responsible for 
investigating ways to prevent heterotopic ossi?cation, 
the formation of bone tissue 
outside the skeleton. The researchers are investigating 
the use of nanostructured 
polymer composites, small 
structures made of multiple 
components, to deliver unique 
RNA into cells where heterotopic ossi?cation occurs.
The research has many potential applications, namely 
with regards to amputation 
and bone trauma. Heterotopic 
ossi?cation is highly prevalent 
in military personnel who sustain bone injuries or require 
amputations, as well as civilians who have major surgeries such as hip replacement 
operations. In these instances, 
it can cause pain and discomfort at the site of injury. The 
elimination of heterotopic 
ossi?cation could improve recovery in patients who undergo these types of procedures 
due to bone trauma.
Although Hollinger did not 
originally intend to conduct 
the research he does now, he 
has the potential to greatly affect the future of bone trauma 
treatment. It is really the 
work of my students, Hollinger said. I have had terri?c 
students from undergraduate 
to graduate  it has been the 
highlight of my career.
BONE, from A4
RAGHUNANDAN AVULA
Staffwriter
Time is a relative concept 
 a human invention created 
to keep track of our existence. 
In a universe that is approximately 13.6 billion years old, 
for an Olympic athlete, milliseconds of the universes existence can be the difference 
between achieving life-long 
dreams and disappointment.
Last week in Sochi, the difference between gold and silver at the 2014 Winter Olympics mens 1500-meter speed 
skating event was a remarkable .003 seconds, according to BBC. Measuring races 
with this extreme precision is 
a daunting task that is made 
possible by state-of-the-art 
technology.
Omega SA, a Swiss luxury 
watchmaker, is the of?cial 
timekeeper of the Olympics 
for the 26th time. Using new 
technology in a three-part 
system, this company aims to 
ensure that the true winners 
will be standing on the podium at the end of the races.
Timing Olympic races can 
be complicated. As racers line 
up at the starting line, they 
eagerly wait for a visual or auditory cue to begin the race.
As described in the Smithsonian magazine, the ancient 
Greeks had a system of ropes, 
one at the racers knees and 
the other at waist level that 
would be dropped one after another signaling to the 
racer that the race was starting. Surprisingly, this system 
would have been fairly successful in preventing a racer 
from jumping the gun  or in 
this case, the rope.
In 1948, the traditional 
gun loaded with blanks to 
start the race was connected 
to an electronic system that 
launched a laser beam across 
the starting line which would 
be triggered by an athletes 
movement and was accurate to one thousandth of a 
second.
However, the traditional 
gunshot sound used to start 
races reaches each racer at 
different times, giving the 
nearest athlete an unfair advantage of a fraction of a fraction of a second.
According to BBC, last 
week in the mens 1500-meter 
speed skating event, Polands 
Zbigniew Brdka and Koen 
Verweij of the Netherlands 
both crossed the ?nish line at 
one minute, 45 seconds ?at. 
However, after a closer look, 
Brdka was awarded the gold 
for ?nishing .003 faster.
In these situations, according to Omega SA, they have 
developed a three-part system to always determine the 
correct winner. When the race 
is started, a sound is played, a 
light ?ash is emitted, and a 
start pulse is given to the timing device  all simultaneously. Racers wear incredibly 
lightweight electronic sensors 
called transponders on their 
legs to accurately record their 
times. Throughout the race, 
these transponders provide 
data of the racers distance 
and time.
At the end of the track 
there are two photoelectric 
cells similar to lasers that 
must both be triggered by 
the athletes skates to record the ?nishing time. This 
data is combined with a 
ScanOVision photo-?nish 
camera that far exceeds the 
power of the human eye. The 
camera provides the ?nal ruling on the winner.
Omega estimated that it 
measured more than 650,000 
times, distances, and scores 
using 230 tons of timekeeping, scoring, and data-handling equipment and more 
than 70 kilometers of copper 
and ?ber-optic cables.
This system is utilized for 
many different events including downhill skiing, bobsled, 
and speedskating. 
The combined use of technology has changed sports 
timekeeping in the Olympics 
forever.
HOW THINGS WORKOlympics winners determined by timekeeping technology
Brooke Kuei/SciTech Editor
Courtesy of Jeffrey Hollinger
Jeffrey Hollinger is the director of the Bone Tissue Engineering Center.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan is a student newspaper at Carnegie Mellon University, funded in part by the student 
activities fee. It is a weekly publication by students during the fall and spring semesters, printed by 
Trib Total Media. The Tartan is not an official publication of Carnegie Mellon University.
The Editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The 
Tartan Editorial Board. Columns, Editorial Cartoons, and Reviews are the opinions of their 
individual creators. The Tartan Editorial Staff reserves the right to withhold from publication 
any copy it deems unfit.
Letters to the Editor are the opinions of their authors. Letters from within the University community take precedence. Letters intended for publication must be signed and include the authors 
address and telephone number for verification; letters must not exceed 350 words. Authors names 
may be withheld from publication upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject 
any letter. Letters must be submitted by 5 p.m. on the Wednesday before publication by mail or to 
forum@thetartan.org.
 2014 The Tartan, all rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN: 0890-3107
A6  thetartan.org/forum The Tartan  February 24, 2014
FROM THE EDITORIAL BOARD
Office: University Center 314
Web: www.thetartan.org
E-mail: contact@thetartan.org
Mail:
The Tartan
Box 119, UC Suite 103 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Inclusive Facebook gender options get a like
In a daring and progressive move, 
Facebook recently unveiled more 
than 50 customizable terms for users to label their gender. Previously, 
users had been limited to the gender binary of male or female, as well 
as the option to refuse answering 
altogether. 
Now, users have their pick of 
terms with which to identify, including variations upon transgender, gender?uid, genderqueer, and 
agender. Each person is also given 
a choice of preferred pronoun: his, 
hers, or theirs. For a social media 
giant, this step is unprecedented in 
support of the trans* community 
that should be celebrated, despite 
certain drawbacks.
Facebooks new gender options 
are an enormous victory for the 
trans*  and, by extension, the LGBTQ  community. According to 
ABC News, Facebook software engineer and out trans woman Brielle 
Harrison has stated, Theres going 
to be a lot of people for whom this 
is going to mean nothing, but for 
the few it does impact, it means the 
world.
This statement couldnt be more 
apt. With the highest rates of violent discrimination and attempted 
suicide in the LGBT community, T 
remains the most stigmatized letter 
of the acronym, according to Slate 
Magazine. Considering this extreme 
prejudice, the number of people who 
identify under the trans* umbrella is 
dif?cult, if not impossible, to accurately measure. To a trans* minority, 
however, being free to self-identify 
on such a major social media site will 
be invaluable.
Additionally, Facebooks decision 
to recognize non-cisgender identities 
could encourage people to educate 
themselves about the gender spectrum. It is more important now than 
ever to raise public awareness and 
acceptance of gender identities outside of the traditional binary. Other 
social media venues would do well 
to follow in Facebooks example and 
not simply by including the ambiguous other in their list of options.
Of course, the company has garnered criticism for its decision. As 
must be true with any progressive 
step forward, some have criticized 
Facebook for going too far in blurring the lines of gender; others 
counter that Facebook didnt go far 
enough. From a practical standpoint, 
expanding gender options may complicate censuses and directed advertising, just by virtue of there being 
more variables. 
However, the trans* community 
shows that anything that divides the 
world into man versus woman is terribly limited in the ?rst place.
Academia must be made accessible to public
Last Tuesday, Carnegie Mellon 
hosted its ?rst ever Three-Minute 
Thesis competition. The contest 
challenged Ph.D. students from multiple disciplines to distill the essence 
of their theses into three-minute presentations to give to an audience of 
non-specialists and be judged.
The Three-Minute competition, 
besides being an interesting venue 
for members of the campus community to see the research being conducted by graduate students, also 
hints at a larger problem facing academia at the moment: accessibility.
Public perception has never been 
kind toward academics. Professors 
and Ph.D. candidates have often 
been viewed as closed off, working 
on projects that cant be explained 
without a seminar course on the 
jargon of their subject area. This distance between academia and the rest 
of our society has proven to be more 
damaging than bene?cial.
America has a long-held grudge 
against academic culture. In our 
elections, we tend to value the triumphs of the common man while 
underplaying the accomplishments 
of the educated. 
For a long period of our history, 
the highest level of education one 
could reasonably expect was a high 
school diploma, which may have 
contributed to a sense of disdain toward those who had the good fortune and opportunity to further their 
studies. 
Now, with rising standards of 
education and national and global 
problems which require the backing 
of scienti?c research and investigation to solve, this distance must be 
eliminated. Academics must work 
to break down the barriers between 
them and the public, and members 
of the public must be willing to accept this.
Of course, there are highly scienti?c and mathematical topics which 
are dif?cult to discuss with those 
outside of the ?eld. However, as a 
whole, academia should focus on becoming more inclusive, rather than 
exclusive. 
The Tartan encourages initiatives 
such as the Three-Minute Thesis 
competition that work to soften the 
divide, making technological innovation and scienti?c progress accessible to the general public. It is only 
through this shift in rhetoric and 
attitude that we can work on making meaningful differences for our 
society.
It has always been the goal of the 
Olympic games to overcome divides 
in international politics and at least 
for two weeks develop a spirit of international cooperation and unity. 
Why, then, is it that NBC continues to be allowed to marginalize a 
large swath of the American population by limiting access to this international event? NBCs decision to 
require a cable subscription to view 
the games means that many are not 
able to join the international community in enjoying them. This disadvantages  lower socioeconomic class 
families who cannot afford a cable 
subscription, as well as a population 
of young adults who increasingly 
turn to the Internet over television. 
Preventing certain demographics from watching the Olympics 
seems to contradict the mission of 
the games and therefore begs the 
question: why does the international 
Olympics committee allow this practice to continue? 
NBC makes some of its coverage 
available online and supplements it 
with advertisements; why cant this 
practice be adapted to all coverage?
People love to gather around a 
game. Nothing has made this sociological phenomenon more evident 
than Twitch Plays Pokmon, a movement in which people across campus 
and across the world have been coming together to root for their favorite 
childhood video game. 
This kind of response is exactly 
what the Olympics are supposed to 
be about: the coming together of 
different groups over the love of the 
game. If the International Olympic 
Committee (IOC) was truly committed to this goal, they would place 
stricter regulations on those networks given the right to broadcast. 
Why the networks covering the 
Olympic Games dont embrace the 
success of live streaming events online is an enigma. It has become clear 
through the runaway popularity of 
Twitch Plays Pokmon that people in 
our age demographic will gather together to watch and socialize around 
free online streams. 
The IOC should promote the use 
of online video to promote the goals 
of community upheld by the Olympics. Offering access to those without cable subscriptions, even in an 
ad-supported form, would be a large 
step toward achieving that goal. 
The best way to achieve the international unity that the Olympic 
games strive for is to make coverage 
of the events easily accessible to everyone. But in the mean time we can 
all watch Pidgeot go for gold. 
NBC misses the gold with Olympics coverage
Ukraine unrest reeks ofRussian interventionism
JUSTIN YAN
In the Feb. 2 issue of The Tartan, 
I wrote an article entitled Ukraine 
must join EU to ease unrest about 
the anti-government protests, popularly called Euromaidan, raging 
through the streets of Ukraines capital city of Kiev.
In the two weeks since that article was published, a lot has happened: the Sochi Olympics, the Kiev 
polices use of live rounds, a truce after the deaths of scores of protesters, 
a subsequent uneasy truce between 
the government and the opposition 
parties, the breaking of that truce, 
President Obamas unexpected 
personal condemnation of Russian 
President Vladimir Putin, European 
Union sanctions in Ukraine, and  
on Saturday  a successful coup 
against Ukrainian President Viktor 
Yanukovych that has left the nations future leadership in question.
According to Time magazine, 
fresh ?ghting broke out on Feb. 20 
across the Maidan Square, where 
much of the ground has been blown 
to rubble. Any Google image search 
will yield a public square resembling 
a war zone. 70 protestors were reported dead as of Thursday. The 
protesters seemed to be adamant 
even in the face of death.
Former heavyweight champion 
boxer and current leader of the 
Ukrainian Democratic Alliance for 
Reform, Vitali Klitschko, has called 
for early presidential elections to 
force reform through a new executive leader. The Ukranian parliament seems to have listened to 
Klitschko, as they have declared Yanukovych constitutionally un?t for 
duty and have established a May 25 
election for his replacement, according to kyivpost.com.
However, even if recent events 
signal that Yanukovych is out of the 
picture, the opposition parties  
for which Klitschko appears to be a 
?gurehead  are by no means uni?ed. They contain nationalists and 
radical factionalists seeking total 
government reform, as well as more 
moderate politicians seeking unity.
There has been much confusion 
surrounding the upcoming elections, with Yanukovych ?eeing the 
capital to the more pro-Russian eastern border of Ukraine. Yanukovych 
later appeared on television, stating 
I do not intend to resign. I am the 
legitimately elected president, according to Time magazine.
With this announcement, the 
streets once again descended into 
chaos, with protesters chanting 
Ukraine is not Russia. Finally, former Ukrainian prime minister and 
archrival of Yanukovych  Yulia Tymoshenko  was freed after years 
in prison following a controversial 
court case. Thus, another key power 
player has entered the fray. Especially concerning is that Tymoshenko 
is in a separate political party than 
Klitschko, which could place the 
leaders in opposite corners if a power vacuum arises. The very question 
of Ukraines unity  beyond regional preferences for the European 
Union (EU) over Russia or vice versa 
 has been thrown into the air.
On Thursday, President Barack 
Obama said, Our approach in the 
United States is not to see these [issues] as some cold war chessboard 
in which were in competition with 
Russia, according to The Guardian. 
Despite President Obamas statement, the events in Ukraine and 
subsequent actions by other nations 
are all skirmishes revolving around 
the chessboard of international politics. All around, intricate moves are 
being pushed into play.
Unlike the Cold War, this chess 
match isnt a clash of democracy 
and communism; however, it is still 
a clash of ideology  power for the 
government versus power for the 
people. 
Ukraine is a curious state, both 
in its demographics and geography. 
Ukraine, with 45.5 million citizens, 
is the seventh most populous country in Europe. Additionally, it is situated on the Black Sea and occupies 
a sizable coastline. It clearly has the 
potential, in manpower and natural 
resources, to be an economic powerhouse in Eastern Europe. Russia sees 
this potential, as does the EU, and so 
there exists a tug of war between the 
two for in?uence over the nation.
According to The Telegraph, it is 
no secret that much of the corruption that Ukraine is rife with, including Yanukovychs unnaturally 
long reign, has been due to Russian 
meddling. Putin, as proud and aggressive as ever, is mounting one 
?nal push to make his EU counterparts lose hope of gaining Ukraine 
as an ally. Russia consumes the majority of Ukrainian trade and bailed 
Ukraine out of bankruptcy back in 
December. Ukraines survival during 
the past year has been dependent 
on its Eastern neighbor. Russia has 
taken advantage of a large  albeit 
unstable  state and maneuvered 
itself into being Ukraines biggest 
client and, at some points, ally.
Putin is not surprised at the violence of Euromaidan  especially 
since much of his foreign policy has 
contributed to it. Moreover, it is no 
coincidence that much of this Russian aggression has occurred with 
the Sochi Olympics. Russian lawmakers have been using media attention from the games as a screen 
for their conduct in Ukraine.
What does this accomplish for 
Putin and Russia? First, Putins capital in?ows into Ukraine have effectively frozen any sort of Association 
Agreement, or trade deal, with the 
EU. Yanukovychs rejection of such 
an agreement was what ?rst incited 
the protests. Second, Putin has restored Ukraine back into its realm of 
in?uence, which imploded after the 
Soviet Union fragmented and started to diminish once again leading up 
to the failed Association Agreement.
Moreover, there is no better way 
for Russia to defend its interests 
against its foe, the United States. By 
exerting its in?uence over Ukraine, 
Russia staves off the creation of a 
pro-U.S. and Western region.
There have been calls for Western nations to impose sanctions and 
?nancial bans on Russia, effectively 
strangling Russian capital ?ows. Unfortunately, not only are assets hard 
to track on such a large scale, but 
such sanctions would lead to even 
greater tensions between Russia and 
the EU with the United States. 
All in all, Russia has been tugging 
strings carefully throughout the Sochi Olympics to protect its interests 
and increase its power outside of 
Moscow. For now, Ukraine teeters 
back into stability. Perhaps after the 
elections  assuming they are conducted fairly  Ukraine will be able 
to stand by itself with less in?uence 
from Russia.
Justin Yan (jky@) is a staffwriter for 
The Tartan.
Kyung Min Lee/Junior Staff Artist
* Denotes executive committee member
Editorial Staff
Editorial Board
RACHEL COHEN*
Publisher
BRADEN KELNER*
Editor-in-Chief
ARIEL HOFFMAIER
Forum Editor 
KATE GROSCHNER*
Contributing Editor
EVAN KAHN
Asst. Copy Manager
CHLOE THOMPSON
Staffwriter
BRENT HEARD *
Contributing Editor
LAURA SCHERB *
Operations Manager
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
News Editor
BROOKE KUEI
SciTech Editor
JOEY PEISER
Pillbox Editor
MARYYANN LANDLORD
Comics Editor
JONATHAN LEUNG
Photo Editor
MICHELLE WAN
Art Editor
MARTHA PATERSON
Online Editor
MAIRAD PETTIT
Personnel Manager
SWATHI ANAND
Layout Manager
WILL CRICHTON
Systems Manager
JOHN HUO
Advertising Manager
DESIREE XU
Business Manager
JAMES WU
Copy Manager
SARA REMI FIELDS
Asst. Photo Editor
JASON CHEN
Asst. Photo Editor
ROBERT MARATOS
Asst. Systems Manager
ANNE-SOPHIE KIM
Asst. Layout Manager
BENJAMIN CHANG
Asst. Business Manager
HANNAH DELLABELLA
Asst. Copy Manager
NOL UM
Asst. News Editor
ALVIN MATTHEWS
Asst. News Editor
ROHAN VARMA
Asst. SciTech Editor
XIYU WANG
Asst. Forum Editor
EUNICE OH
Asst. Art Editor
JOSH SMITH
Contributing Editor
JENNIFER COLOMA
Contributing Editor
JONATHAN CARREON
Contributing Editor
MICHAEL SETZER
Contributing Editor
Staff
SENIOR STAFF 
Carl Glazer, Greg Hanneman
COPY
Lula Beresford-Banker, Francesca Begos, Matt 
Brown, Connie Chan, Nivedita Chopra, Gordon 
Estes, Blaine Greenberg, Katherine Huang, 
Mackenzie Nicholson, Stephanie Stern
LAYOUT
Jenna Bodnar, Yong Gun Choe, Sara-Remi 
Fields, Mina Kim, Udaya Malik
ADVERTISING
Alison Chiu, Anuva Kulkarni, Kyle Henson

---------------------------------------------------

A PERSONS OPINION
February 24, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/forum  A7
The Tartan enjoyed a taste of Spring this week. So we asked,
What are you going to do when the weather gets nicer?
Compiled by Sara Remi Fields
Streaming means indie artists go broke
KYLE HENSON
Its a well-documented fact that 
artists dont get paid well for music 
that people stream online. The actual magnitude of this problem was 
recently made more public when 
alternative rock group Camper Van 
Beethoven released a picture of their 
royalty check. One of their songs got 
played over a million times and their 
payout was a bit more than $16. That 
should be astounding to everyone.
As an amateur musician in a band 
myself, I can attest to the amount of 
time and energy artists put into creating songs. Ive sat for hours listening to my singer record 121 takes on 
a vocal track because he wasnt satis?ed with his performance. Imagine 
that process repeated over the 20-30 
tracks that professionally produced 
songs have. Its an absolutely laborious process. Bands will often spend 
months in the studio trying to perfect their sound.
Then, when tracks ?nally get out 
of the studio, some poor soul has to 
sit there mixing for hours and hours 
on end. Mixers will listen to the same 
song thousands of times, often sitting alone in a windowless room late 
at night, slowly watching their sanity 
slip into effect inserts and automation data to make the artists sound 
the way they want to.
After mixing is ?nally done, the 
track has to be mastered. Now the 
process is even more nuanced and 
delicate, because changing the decay 
on your reverb effect by less than a 
tenth of a second will drastically alter the way the track sounds. Thats 
why albums usually take upward of 
ten months to go from a songwriters 
ideas to serenading ears.
Imagine putting all that love 
and care into something, and then 
having it turn out really well. Its 
popular, people want it, they use it 
one million times, and  after everything  you only get $16. Thats 
nuts. President Obama is pushing for 
higher minimum wage laws to nominally help low-skilled workers, but 
these laws will mainly help to boost 
the salaries of union workers, since 
union wages are often calculated as 
a multiple of the minimum wage. 
But union workers have an average hourly pay rate of $23.75. In an 
hour, they make almost 150 percent 
of what Pandora pays an artist for 
streaming one million songs.
While I dont want to minimize 
the positive effect that Pandora and 
other streaming services have had on 
making discovery of new music more 
accessible, they have to start paying 
artists a bit more for use of their intellectual property. As streaming becomes more popular and increasingly few people buy music  instead 
opting for Spotify  artists arent going to earn a decent living from their 
music. Indie bands could possibly be 
a dying breed, leaving us only with 
music that record labels heavily subsidize and promote, which would be 
a terrible state of affairs for the quality and diversity of music.
A friend of mine is an incredibly 
talented musician who has taken 
to simply giving his music away. He 
told me that it was basically impossible to make any money from online 
distribution, so the best he can do is 
get more music in more peoples ears 
so that they pay for his live show. We 
dont need to leave talented artists 
behind like this. The music industry needs to ?nd a way to get artists 
more money from the online distribution of their intellectual property.
Kyle Henson (kahenson@) is a staffwriter for The Tartan.
MOHAMMED BURNY
Junior Staffwriter
Giving America a raise is highly 
controversial these days. The current federal minimum wage is $7.25 
per hour. Democrats wish to raise it 
to $10.10 by 2016. Republicans, true 
to recent form, are rejecting the proposal outright.
A wall of partisan noise has 
drowned out the economic facts 
underpinning this proposal. Lets 
review them. The Congressional 
Budget Of?ce (CBO) states that 
this hike in the minimum wage will 
boost earnings for about 24.5 million Americans over the next three 
years. Consequently, nearly one million Americans will escape poverty.
However, the hike will also cost 
another half a million Americans 
their jobs, according to the CBO. 
This statistic has Republicans incensed. 
They argue that the governments imposition of a higher minimum wage on the marketplace  
essentially, a higher base price for 
labor  will increase the prices of 
goods and services. Consumers will 
then buy less. Consequently, businesses will have to ?re low-wage 
workers in order to maintain their 
pro?t margins. Additionally, in some 
industries, the higher price of labor 
will incentivize businesses to automate those jobs, decreasing hiring.
Republicans propose, instead, 
the Earned Income Tax Credit 
(EITC). It incentivizes low-wage 
workers to seek work instead of 
welfare by giving them a taxpayer 
subsidy to lift them out of poverty. 
Unlike the federal minimum wage, 
however, the EITC does not use the 
muscle of the federal government 
to arm low-wage workers with bargaining power when they try to increase this wage. 
Additionally, economists warn 
that for every 10 percent increase 
in the EITC, high-school educated 
workers lose 2 percent in wages, according to a report published by the 
Brookings Institution. This consequence occurs because the EITC encourages more Americans to work, 
thus keeping the cost of labor low. 
The EITC is a good ?rst step, but 
should be implemented alongside 
an increase in the federal minimum 
wage, which would counteract the 
reduction in wages created by a 
higher EITC.
Democrats are buoyed by the 
prospect of lessening poverty and 
reducing income inequality. Common sense dictates that improving 
the lives of 24.5 million Americans 
 a million of them dramatically  
far outweighs the predicted loss of 
half a million minimum-wage jobs.
In fact, Democrats respond in 
two ways to that prediction.
First, they argue that a predicted 
loss of 500,000 jobs is not certain. 
Twenty years of economic data, 
gleaned from comparing states that 
raised their minimum wages above 
the federal level to states that did 
not, suggest that business owners do not automatically respond 
to a higher minimum wage by laying off workers and not hiring new 
ones. Rather, they pay these higher 
minimum wages from the money 
they save from reduced labor turnover, higher productivity, and a 
slowdown in wage increases higher 
up the scale. As Secretary of Labor 
Thomas Perez explained to reporters at the White House, the American economy shall gain the ef?ciencies of paying a fair wage.
Second, Democrats argue that 
a higher minimum wage will boost 
demand across the economy. The 
more low-wage workers will earn, 
the more they will spend. Greater 
demand for goods and services 
will create more well-paying jobs. 
This effect is the Henry Ford effect. 
Ford doubled the daily wage of his 
workers to $5 so they could buy a 
Model T. In doing so, he sparked the 
rise of the American middle class. 
Democrats call on business owners 
to embrace this logic and join them 
in pushing for a higher minimum 
wage. Even if hiking the minimum 
wage sheds 500,000 jobs, unemployed Americans will quickly ?nd 
higher-paying jobs.
A recent Pew Research Center poll found that 73 percent of 
Americans, including 53 percent 
of Republicans, supported raising 
the minimum wage from $7.25 to 
$10.10. Our social contract asserts 
that if we work hard, we should be 
able to put a roof over our heads, 
food on the table, and clothes on our 
backs. The current federal minimum 
wage translates to an annual income 
of $15,080. This income is a state 
of poverty, and no one who works 
a full-time job should live in a state 
of poverty. It is time America got a 
raise.
Sochi cannot afford high-roller attitude
BRANDON SCHMUCK
The Olympics are meant to be a 
time during which the world puts its 
differences aside and comes together in a joyous manner to celebrate 
healthy competition. However, as 
the ?nal whispers of this years Sochi Olympics die down, many questions are being raised concerning the 
corruption associated with historys 
most expensive Games.
According to The Huf?ngton Post, 
this years Winter Games have cost 
upward of $50 billion  a cost higher than that of all previous Winter 
Olympics combined. For a country 
with signi?cant economic problems 
and government expenditures of 
only $376.2 billion in 2011, this vast 
spending is concerning.
With this high-roller attitude, 
Russia is trying to impress the world 
and hide the fact that it is still a developing nation. It has tried to hide 
its issues with shiny, state-of-the-art 
complexes, but members of the media are quickly discovering many of 
the problems faced by Sochis citizens that Russia has been unable to 
cover.
As The Huf?ngton Post describes, 
many journalists entered their hotels only to ?nd half-?nished buildings. In some hotels, the water was a 
bright yellow hue and clearly unsafe 
to drink. Journalist for Canadian 
publication The Globe and Mail Mark 
MacKinnon even tweeted, Ok, so 
my hotel doesnt have a lobby yet. 
Though many rooms did not contain 
heat, Internet, or other basic commodities, each did offer an authoritarian portrait of Russian President 
Vladimir Putin.
Sochi bid its spot for the Olympics quoting an estimated budget 
of $12 billion. How has its budget 
more than quadrupled since to $51 
billion?
As it turns out, the most expensive games in Olympics history may 
also be the most corrupt. According 
to Business Insider, as much as $30 
billion may have been stolen from 
the already in?ated budget. 
According to Russian opposition 
?gures Boris Nemtsov and Leonid 
Martynyuk, Putin funneled contracts 
to many of his friends, causing the 
Olympics sports complexes to be 
built without competitive offers. 
Nemtsov describes this embezzlement as a real threat to Russias national security.
The fact that half of the budget 
may have been stolen represents 
much of the corruption the Russian 
government still faces in the postSoviet era. Add to this the anti-gay 
propaganda laws enacted by Russia 
before the games, and the 2014 Sochi Winter Olympics has turned out 
to be one of the most controversial 
games in history.
Despite the controversy, the fact 
that Russia held this years games 
may encourage closer ties with the 
United States and other Western nations  a welcome accomplishment 
in this post-Cold War age. However, 
while Russia has come far from its 
Soviet Union decline, it stills faces 
many of the issues of a developing 
nation. 
Russias international affairs 
may have bene?ted greatly from the 
Olympics, but by spending extravagant amounts of money on sports 
complexes when its citizens are in 
poverty, the nation has turned away 
from helping the people within its 
borders.
Brandon Schmuck (bschmuck@) is a 
staffwriter for The Tartan.
Eunice Oh/Staff Artist
Michelle Wan/Art Editor
Hardworking Americans should not live in poverty
Kevin Chiu
Information Systems, Economics
Sophomore
Im going to go out for a run on 
the track and wear sunglasses.
Jack Fogel
Design
First-year
Im going to go outside and take 
more pictures.
Renee Sajedian
Undecided
First-year
Im going to take bike rides.
Bella Pagano
Physics
First-year
Hammock naps!
Amanda Marano
ECE
Sophomore
My plan was to sit outside more 
and eat food outside!

---------------------------------------------------

A8  thetartan.org/sports The Tartan  February 24, 2014
These two personnel choices have paid off handsomely 
for Madrid, as they give the 
team a liberty in tactics which 
was previously not available. 
When attacking, Madrid 
can play as a 4-3-3 but a de 
facto 4-1-2-3 with di Mara 
and Modric pushing up and 
Alonso holding fort or spraying long balls out wide. It 
gives the team greater attacking impetus, while also freeing 
up the wingers to try and beat 
their man on the outside rather than cutting in, something 
which Ronaldo, Bale, and Jes 
are very capable of doing. 
With two players in the central positions, the cutting in of 
the wingers to take a shot on 
goal also has a renewed surprise effect, especially since 
each of the mid?eld three, as 
well as Ronaldo, and Bale have 
fantastic long shots.
When it comes to defending, di Mara makes a huge 
difference. When playing a 
4-2-3-1, the number 10 and 
the striker are not expected to 
track back, while the wingers 
are. However, with Ronaldo 
being on the left wing and 
not a player who likes to play 
through the middle, it tends 
to leave three players up front 
and Madrid becomes 
vulnerable. 
To rectify this problem, 
when defending, Ancelotti 
changes the formation of his 
team from a 4-3-3 to a 4-4-
2, with Ronaldo switching 
to a secondary striker and di 
Mara manning the left ?ank. 
Di Maras incessant running 
puts pressure on the opposition and the winger on the 
other ?ank is expected to do 
the same. 
This results in deadly counter attacks when possession is 
won back, similar to the lightning-speed counters seen during the league-title-winning 
season under Mourinho. 
The defensive stability provided by the extra man behind 
the ball means there is less 
pressure on Modric and Alonso to do the dirty work, and 
they can shield the back much 
better. 
This strategy has had extraordinary results in 2014. 
Madrid have played a total of 
14 games this year, winning 
all but one of them  a creditable 11 draw with Athletic 
Bilbao, a team that has not lost 
at home this season  and 
with just three goals conceded 
overall. 
The defensive pairing of 
central defenders Sergio Ramos and Pepe has blossomed 
again, and the full backs have 
been rotated so effectively 
that it rarely even matters 
which one steps out on the 
pitch these days. 
With the impending return 
of young defender Raphal 
Varane, the Madrid defense is 
only going to get stronger. The 
biggest trickle-down effect of 
this tactic has been that Madrid ?nally have a blueprint on 
how to approach games. 
When squad rotation 
comes into play, the basic tactics and positions are already 
laid out for the role players, 
such as Isco and Illaramendi. 
Madrid have conceded no 
goals in cup competitions this 
season as a result, with goalkeeper Iker Casillas showing 
his pre-2013 form again. Atltico Madrid, who had beaten 
Real Madrid at the Santiago 
Bernabu Stadium in the 
league again earlier this season, were soundly thrashed 
50 over two legs in the cup, 
with Jes scoring in both legs 
of that matchup.
Jes has been a revelation 
since the start of the year, 
deputizing superbly for Bale, 
and even making his own case 
to be a starter in the team. His 
scoring form has been phenomenal, with him scoring at 
nearly a goal a game for a part 
of January. 
Ancelotti has not been 
afraid to use talented players 
from Castilla, such as lvaro 
Morata in the earlier stages 
of the season when Benzema 
was slacking, and now Jes, in 
light of Bales injury and Ronaldos subsequent suspension. 
Over the last two months, 
Jes has been the starting 
winger for Madrid in every 
game and, while his game 
time is likely to diminish now 
that Bale is back and Ronaldo 
has completed his suspension, 
he has given Ancelotti a welcome selection headache, able 
backup and ?repower on the 
bench, and a new dimension 
for his teams attack. 
Jes is a player capable of 
playing either on the wing or 
as a lone striker, due to his exceptional ability with the ball 
and his superb ?nishing. He 
seems to be the natural successor to Ronaldo a few years 
down the line and could become the next striker Ral of 
Real Madrid, a homegrown 
legend.
Ancelottis Madrid in 2014 
have been nothing short of 
sensational, and with Champions League now returning, 
it remains to be seen whether 
he can accomplish the goal set 
out for him at the beginning of 
the season  to bring home La 
Decima. 
Madrid are entering top 
gear as the business end of the 
season approaches  they are 
in the Copa del Ray ?nal and 
have a three-point lead at the 
top of the table. Its getting 
harder to bet against this team 
winning every competition 
there is this winter.
New manager Ancelotti brings a fresh outlook to Madrid
Courtesy of Doha Stadium Plus Qatar via Flickr
Carlo Ancelotti, manager for Madrids soccer team, has poised his team to sweep their season.
SPORTS COMMENTARY
MADRID, from A10
UAA Sports Standings
Mens Basketball
Univ.Conf.WL
Wash. U.130222
Emory94177
Chicago85159
NYU67168
CWRU581311
Brandeis491212
CMU491113
Rochester310915
Womens Basketball
Univ.Conf.WL
Wash. U.121222
Chicago94159
NYU85195
Brandeis761311
Emory58168
Rochester581113
CMU3101212
CWRU310915
Mens Tennis
Univ.Conf.WL
Brandeis0021
CWRU0022
NYU0000
Chicago0032
Wash. U.0061
CMU0063
Emory0042
Rochester0051
Womens Tennis
Univ.Conf.WL
Emory0030
Wash. U.0001
Rochester0021
Brandeis0013
CWRU0032
Chicago0031
NYU0000
CMU0050
Mens Swimming/Diving
Univ.Points
Emory659.33
Chicago553.63
CMU499.11
NYU480.44
CWRU422.22
Wash. U.410.22
Rochester339.85
Brandeis144.59
Womens Swimming/
Diving
Univ.Points
Emory786.59
Chicago531.26
Wash. U.522.67
CMU481.93
NYU477.93
Rochester430.22
CWRU302.37
Upcoming Schedule
Mens Basketball 
Sunday, March 1
Case Western Reserve at 
Carnegie Mellon
5 p.m.
Womens Basketball
 
Sunday, March 1
Case Western Reserve at 
Carnegie Mellon
3 p.m.
Mens Tennis
Sunday, March 9
Carnegie Mellon vs. Stevens 
at Claremont, Calif.
Time TBA
Monday, March 10
Carnegie Mellon vs. Bowdoin 
at Claremont, Calif.
4 p.m.
Womens Tennis
Begin Friday, Feb. 28
Carnegie Mellon vs. TBA at 
DePauw University
Time TBA
Indoor National 
Championship
Friday, Feb. 28
Carnegie Mellon vs. Washington (Mo.) at Greencastle, Ind. 
3:30 p.m.
Indoor Championships
Mens Track and Field
Begin Friday, Feb. 28
UAA Indoor Championships 
at Brandeis University 
12 p.m.
Womens Track and Field
Begin Friday, Feb. 28
UAA Indoor Championships 
at Brandeis University 
12 p.m.

---------------------------------------------------

February 24, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/sports  A9
Mens and womens basketball teams face off at UChicago
CARL GLAZER
Senior Staffwriter
The Carnegie Mellon Basketball teams went on the road 
this week to face University of 
Chicago in a Friday womens 
and mens doubleheader. The 
Tartans went 11 on the evening with the men coming 
within two seconds of a Carnegie Mellon sweep.
The women started the 
matchup and held steady with 
the Maroons through the ?rst 
half. For the ?rst 10 minutes, 
the Tartans were playing an 
in-and-out offense with all of 
their points coming on layups, 
free throws or three-point 
shots. Senior guard Jacquie 
Shaw started to open up the 
game, giving the Tartans a 
four-point lead about four 
minutes in on an easy transition layup and foul, with the 
additional free throw making 
it a two possession game.
This run was quickly answered by a Maroons threepointer, and the score was 
stuck at 1413 for the next 
several minutes as both teams 
missed shots and suffered 
from turnovers. In an attempt 
to get things going, the Maroons implemented an unusual full-team substitution with 
all ?ve players on the court 
going to the bench. This did 
not have the desired effect, as 
both teams were still mired in 
poor shooting and sloppy ball 
handling.
Both offenses ?nally started showing signs of life in the 
later stages of the ?rst half, 
with the Maroons opening up 
a ?ve-point lead after backto-back three-pointers only to 
be answered later by back-toback three-pointers by junior 
guard Gabrielle West. 
After another layup and 
one from Shaw, West followed 
up with two more quick threes 
to stretch the Tartan lead to 
six. The Maroons pulled back 
to within one with under 30 
seconds to go in the half after 
a layup and their own threepointer, but West drilled her 
?fth three-pointer of the half 
with under two seconds to 
go to give Carnegie Mellon a 
4137 lead going into the half.
Coming out of half, the Tartans extended their lead with 
early points from ?rst-year 
center-forward Lisa Murphy 
and junior forward Liza Otto. 
Junior guard Chandler Cau?eld and West each hit a threepointer to give the Tartans 
their ?rst double-digit lead.
The Maroons continued 
their rapid-?re, three-point offense, hitting three straight to 
keep the game within reach. 
The Tartans kept up with the 
blistering pace, keeping the 
lead until two minutes were 
left in the game when a pair 
of Maroons free throws ?nally 
tied up the game.
They pulled out an 8477 
victory with the help of ?ve of 
six free-throw shooting down 
the stretch from Shaw and 
Otto. Wests torrid three-point 
shooting tied her own school 
record as she ?nished with 
seven made three-pointers 
and a team-leading 23 points.
For the men, the road trip 
was a good chance to clear 
their head, at least to start 
the game. Fourteen points by 
junior forward-guard Seth 
Cordts, including four threepointers in the ?rst nine minutes, helped the Tartans open 
up a fast double-digit lead.
Chicago started pulling 
back in with a three-pointer 
and a powerful dunk, but 
back-to-back threes by ?rstyear forward Jack Serbin and 
senior guard Rashaun Riley 
pushed the lead back to 10. A 
series of layups by senior forward-guard Christian Manoli gave Carnegie Mellon a 
14-point lead with under three 
minutes to play in the half.
The Maroons tried to close 
the lead, but a three-point shot 
by senior guard Asad Meghani 
and another Manoli free throw 
gave the Tartans a 4238 lead 
going into half time.
Chicago came out on ?re, 
forcing several bad Carnegie Mellon free throws and 
quickly cutting the lead to ?ve. 
Manoli and Cordts continued 
carrying the team as they combined for nine points for the 
Tartans coming out of the half 
and managed to push the lead 
back to 10.
The turning point for the 
Tartans was a foul and subsequent technical foul by junior 
center-forward Matt Loebbaka. Loebbaka has shown a 
bit of a temper this season and 
had his passion spill out on to 
the court on more than one occasion. This time it really cost 
Carnegie Mellon as Chicago 
hit four free throws and used 
this swing in momentum to ?-
nally mount their second-half 
charge.
The Tartans interior defense fell after this point as 
they gave up easy layups left 
and right. The complete lack 
of rim protection meant that 
the Carnegie Mellon offensive, which had been clicking 
up to this point, was no longer afforded the easy transitional baskets used to set their 
tempo, and they were forced 
to constantly set up out of the 
half-court offense.
Ultimately, the Maroons 
took the lead with just under two minutes to go in the 
half. The Tartans attempted a 
comeback with Manoli regaining the lead with 28 seconds 
left on a jump shot, but a Chicago three-pointer with just 
under two seconds remaining ended Carnegie Mellons 
dream of a clean sweep with 
the men falling 7977.
For both teams, this weekend was an example of the 
play they have been capable 
of, but for the men it was also 
an example of the inconsistent and occasionally undisciplined play that has cost them 
several wins this season.
Jason Chen/Asst. Photo Editor
Freshman forward Jack Serbin takes the offensive. 

---------------------------------------------------

February 24, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/sports  A10
CARL GLAZER
Senior Staffwriter
The Olympics werent supposed to end this way. The 
United States was supposed 
to come home with gold, or 
at least a medal. But a day after losing to rival Canada, the 
United States mens hockey 
team fell ?at against Finland, 
losing 50 in the bronze medal game. 
Now the team, composed 
of NHL players from across 
the league, is forced to pull 
it back together as they join 
their other teammates who 
competed for Russia, Canada 
and Finland, and who all had 
emotional games with the U.S. 
The Penguins will have a particularly interesting trip back 
as they try to continue their 
dominance through the Metropolitan Division.
Head coach Dan Bylsma 
and assistant coach Tony 
Granato of the Penguins were 
both with the United States 
team in Sochi, with Bylsma 
serving as head coach of the 
U.S. national team. How he 
handles the disappointment of 
these Olympic Games and the 
massive media pressure that 
surrounds them will be key 
to the Penguins keeping level 
heads and making a strong 
push toward the playoffs.
Refocusing the team after 
this rough two-week stretch 
would be tough even for a 
coach that is not distracted, 
but balancing the tensions 
that arise from the rapid shift 
from teammates to competitors and back will be an even 
tougher tight rope given Bylsmas proximity to the national 
pride issues at hand.
Star center Evgeni Malkin 
may have the toughest time 
returning to form from the 
Olympics. Playing in his third 
Olympic games, Malkin was 
one of the many NHL stars trying to bring gold back home to 
Russia at their home games. A 
common sentiment throughout the games was that regardless of medal totals, a 
gold medal for mens hockey 
meant a successful Olympics 
for Russia.
Russias ?rst major challenge came against the United 
States in group play. Malkin 
was forced to go head-tohead with his head coach and 
defensive teammates Paul 
Martin and Brooks Orpik in 
a game that, while meaningless for elimination purposes, 
felt and looked like the gold 
medal match. After the game 
controversially went into 
overtime due to an unallowed 
game-winning Russian goal, 
the resulting shootout was 
thought to go in Russias favor 
given the sharpshooters they 
had, such as Malkin. While St. 
Louis Blues winger T.J. Oshie 
became an overnight sensation in the U.S. for his winning 
46 shootout performance, 
Malkin missed the net with his 
?rst attempt and was not given another chance to redeem 
himself.
In part due to this loss, Russia was not afforded a bye and 
was forced to play Norway to 
win a spot in the quarter?nals. 
While this game was not much 
of a challenge, it clearly had 
an effect as Russia was wiped 
out by a rested Finland in the 
quarter?nals. Malkin managed to get four shots on goal, 
but could not connect as the 
team fell 31. Malkin had the 
misfortune of going up against 
his line mate Jussi Jokinen in 
this game, as his bad luck 
streak against teammates 
continued.
While Malkin had tough 
individual games, the toughest rift to heal will likely be 
between the Canadian and 
U.S. contingents. With the 
neighbors facing off in the 
semi?nals, this was thought 
to be the default gold medal 
game with the winner cakewalking to the ?nals victory. 
As such, tensions were riding 
high as the two NHL all-star 
squads faced off. With several sets of teammates facing 
off against each other, likely 
none was more opposed than 
line mates Sidney Crosby and 
Chris Kunitz for team Canada 
against their Penguin teammates and blue line pairing, 
Orpik and Martin. The eventual 10 Canadian victory, 
while triumphant for Crosby 
and Kunitz was devastating 
to the U. S. contingent which, 
as stated earlier, ?ew home 
empty-handed after getting 
crushed by Finland.
With 24 games left for the 
Penguins when they restart 
play on Thursday, there is still 
plenty of time for the team to 
try and work past the national 
pride feelings that Sochi 
instilled. 
But these players are all 
very competitive and did not 
make it this far in their sport 
by not having a burning competitive rage. How well Bylsma is able to rally himself and 
his team and get them to turn 
that emotion toward the common goal of bringing the Stanley Cup back to Pittsburgh will 
determine the level of success 
the Penguins have come May. 
Some grudges are not so easily buried, but winning dulls 
all pain.
Courtesy Ivanaivanova via Wikimedia Commons
The United States mens hockey team was defeated by Canada, Finland, and Russia in a heartbreaking 
Olympic run. These results leave the Penguins with a challenge in their team energy.
SPORTS COMMENTARIESOlympic hockey may affect the Penguins season
Mens and womens track teams sweep Ohio State Tune-Up
CARL GLAZER
Senior Staffwriter
On Friday, the mens and 
womens track teams attended  
Ohio State Tune-Up in preparation for next weeks University Athletic Association 
(UAA) Indoor Championships 
at Brandeis University. 
The mens team had a good 
day, ?nishing second-place 
as a team, losing only to host 
Ohio State University. The 
women had several outstanding individual performances 
as well.
For the men, ?rst-year Andrew Chang set a school record in the 60-meter dash with 
a time of 7.11 seconds and 
grabbed a third place ?nish in 
the 200-meter dash.
First-year Kyle Weaver 
came close to breaking a 
school record, missing the 
pole vault record by a centimeter. He ultimately ?nished 
in sixth place with a jump of 
4.52 meters.
The Tartans long-distance 
running was their strength, 
with junior George Degen 
winning the 3,000-meter run 
and juniors Elliott Watson and 
Ben Walker placing ?rst and 
second in the 1,000-meter 
run.
Continuing Carnegie Mellons junior dominance, Thomas Vandenberg took ?rst place 
in the 800-meter run with his 
time of 1:53.38, putting him 
third in the nation to go along 
with his top-ten national ranking in the 400-meter dash.
For the women, it was all 
about their new ?rst-year talent. Sommer Farber set a career best in the triple jump, 
?ying 9.76 meters and placing 
sixth. A pair of ?rst-year runners, Rebecca Fortner and Ariel Tian, performed well in the 
200- and 400-meter dashes, 
respectively.
The one upperclassman 
standout for the Tartans was 
junior Sasha Spalding, who 
had a season-best throw in the 
shot put of 10.44 meters.
It remains to be seen how 
the team and Vandenberg will 
continue into the UAAs and 
Vandenbergs bid for NCAA 
Championships.Anne-Sophie Kim/Assistant Layout Manager
Mens tennis wavers
NISHANT RENIWAL
Junior Staffwriter
May 2013 was the lowest 
point  of Real Madrids recent history. Having just lost 
the league by a whopping 15 
points and being humiliated 
by Borussia Dortmund in the 
Champions League, the Copa 
Del Rey ?nal presented an opportunity for redemption for 
the club, to salvage something 
from the season.
What followed was an 
embarrassing loss at the Santiago Bernabu Stadium, their 
home ground, to ?erce city rivals Atltico Madrid. Manager 
Jos Mourinho promptly left 
the club by mutual consent 
after three turbulent years of 
managing the club. 
The club was thrust into 
uncertainty. Superstar forward Cristiano Ronaldo was 
being linked with a transfer 
back to his former club Manchester United.
To restore some decorum 
in the dressing room and 
to make a run at La Decima 
(Madrids tenth Champions 
League title), Madrid hired 
Carlo Ancelotti, a manager renowned for his management 
skill and winning two Champions League titles with A.C. 
Milan. 
Even Ancelottis Madrid 
took a while to get going. 
Ronaldos extraordinary form 
in the latter months of 2013 
meant that Madrid were cruising in the Champions League 
group stage, but struggling in 
the league and six points off 
the top of the league. 
World record-signing winger Gareth Bale injured himself 
just after reaching top form. 
Madrid were shipping goals 
at an alarming rate. Defensive 
mid?elder Sami Khedira was 
ruled out for the rest of the 
season with a torn ACL and 
MCL. 
Things were looking bleak 
for Los Blancos and the possibility of trophies this season 
was turning into a pipe dream. 
At the turn of the year, however, a new Madrid was born. 
They have probably been 
the best team besides Bayern 
Munich since, and Ancelotti 
can take a lot of credit for that. 
What exactly has changed?
One of the biggest changes 
from the Mourinho era was 
the sale of mid?elder Mesut 
zil and the subsequent signing of Bale. 
zil was Madrids chief 
playmaker and was considered by many to be as important to Madrid as the likes of 
strikers Ronaldo and Karim 
Benzema.
However, Ancelotti considered his lack of effort on 
defense to be detrimental to 
the team, and with a switch 
in formation to 4-3-3 from 
4-2-3-1, there was no place to 
utilize zils talents. Madrid 
struggled without the in?uence of zil and the spark he 
so often provided to create 
several goals. 
With mid?eld general Xabi 
Alonso out through injury, 
mid?elder Luka Modri

---------------------------------------------------

Twitch Plays Pokmon
The bold experiment that has users 
around the world hooked  B4
Drama Centennial
A look at a century of the School of 
Drama  B8The Wild Party
The School of Dramas latest show 
heats up the Chosky Theater  B6
02.24.14 Volume 108, Issue 19
C Street Brass
An interview with the Carnegie Mellon 
brass quintet-in-residence  B7

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
Check out this weeks round up.11
Dollar Movie
AB Films presents Bad Words, Gravity, and 
The Butler.
7
The Tartan . Box 119 . UC Suite 103 . Carnegie Mellon University . 5000 Forbes Ave . Pittsburgh, PA 15213 . www.thetartan.org .  2012 The Tartan
PUBLISHER Rachel Cohen EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Braden Kelner
PILLBOX EDITOR Joey Peiser ASSISTANT PILLBOX EDITOR Jenna Bodnar COMICS EDITOR Maryyann Landlord
ART EDITOR Michelle Wan PHOTO EDITOR Jonathan Leung 
COPY MANAGER James Wu COVER Courtesy of Dennis Schebetta
6
4810
regulars...
Advice
Everything you need to know about House of 
Cards and teaser spring.
3
...diversions
...this week only
The Secret Life of Robots
An exhibit that depicts robots in everyday 
scenarios premieres at the SPACE Gallery.
3
Twitch Plays Pokmon
TPP becomes an Internet phenomenon.4
Online shopping 101Create the perfect wardrobe from the comfort 
of your dorm room.
5
The Wild PartyThe Wild Party premieres in the School of 
Drama.6
C Street BrassFive Carnegie Mellon students come together 
to follow their passion for music.
7
Centennial CelebrationThe School of Drama throws a party for its 
100th birthday.
8
Andrew JacksonBloody, Bloody Andrew Jackson brings history 
to life with raunchy rock and roll.
10
Puzzles
A happy diversion from homework that keeps 
your brain sharp.
13
Horoscopes
Your destiny for this week is written in the 
stars.
14
Calendar
Things to do around campus and in the 
community.
15

---------------------------------------------------

art
pillbox 02.24.143
What if robots lived like we did?
Secret Life of Robots depicts robots in everyday situations
We know that robots can do all kinds of amazing 
things for us, but what do they do when were not 
looking? An exhibition titled The Secret Life of 
Robots offers an unpolished look into the unseen, 
and often mundane, lives of robots, according to 
the Pittsburgh Cultural Trust. The display opened at 
the SPACE Gallery in Downtown on Friday evening.
Local artist Toby Atticus Fraley drew inspiration 
from his sketchbook in the creation of the display. 
Robots assembled from pieces of Americana 
illustrate mundane everyday rituals, acts of daring, 
and precious milestones, Fraley said in a press 
release. These scenes of great joy and crushing 
sadness cover the beginning to the end of a typical 
robots life span, celebrating and revering the beauty 
in the everyday.
This whimsical collection of expressive robots 
was a pleasant reprieve from the more somber 
subjects of other galleries. Fraley combated the 
cold, mechanical monotony typically associated 
with robots  using the down-home comfort of 
their settings. The quirky robots made the relatable, 
humdrum scenes intriguing and delightful. The 
knickknacks and dcor of the robots homes 
transported viewers to the more wholesome era of 
the 50s. For the opening of the gallery, DJ Gordy 
Greenawalt amplified the experience with sounds of 
doo-wop and swing.
Fraley makes mixed media sculptures and clockwork 
pieces on a day-to-day basis for his clients, but 
chose to represent his own ideas in this recent 
gallery. Most of the robots grew unique personalities 
as he built them, a modern twist on finding the 
figure in the clay, Fraley said in an interview. The 
eyebrows  thats where they really start getting 
their personalities. Using materials that he finds 
in flea markets in the summer and on eBay in the 
winter, Fraleys robots revitalize worn-down baubles 
with true American resilience.
While some of the scenes are static, others have 
moving parts that enhance the lifelike aspects. 
Among other moving scenes, an elderly robot 
welcomes viewers as he wavers back and forth 
while reaching for his glasses, and a father robot 
puts on a puppet show for his child. Fraley admits 
that there was no real formula as to which scenes 
had motion and which scenes had none; he simply 
chose to animate whatever scenes spoke to him. 
There were some that I wanted to have move, like 
the lady reaching for the cat food, but I just didnt 
have time, Fraley said.
The Secret Life of Robots is an engaging display 
for viewers of all artistic tastes and backgrounds. 
Viewers can enjoy this free exhibition through April 
27.
Jenna Bodnar | Assistant Pillbox Editor
Courtesy of Ryan Doran
Advice for awkward people
Dear Matt and Ryan,
Did you know its no 
longer last Friday? I had 
no idea. Ive been bingewatching the new season 
of House of Cards since 
the moment it came out. 
HAVE YOU SEEN IT? 
HOW CAN YOU WATCH 
THAT JUST ONCE. THE 
FIRST EPISODE JUST 
STARTS AND THEN 
[redacted for spoilers].
Sincerely,
[also redacted for 
spoilers]
Dear REDACTED,
So, we kind of lost you there 
and you didnt really ask a 
question for us to answer. 
But you did mention how 
you lost track of this week. 
First order of business, 
email everyone. All of your 
professors, maybe your 
advisor too. Let them know 
what happened and hope 
they understand. Make up 
any of the work you missed. 
Get notes from your friends. 
No friends? Make some. 
Hopefully you didnt miss 
anything terribly important, 
and you seem lucid now, 
so hopefully youve already 
started catching up.
The other problem that could 
arise is a fear that everyone 
you meet will eventually use 
and backstab you. And we 
cant really help with that. If 
you start looking in shadows 
and staying indoors, you 
might want to seek help.
I mean, really, we 
probably arent out to get 
you. Probably.
Matt & Ryan
Dear Ryan and Matt,
YOU GUYS.
SUNLIGHT.
WARMTH.
ITS HAPPENING. SPRING 
IS FINALLY HERE.
TIME TO PUT ON MAH 
BOOTY SHORTS AND 
PICK UP THE LADIES.
YEAH WARMTH,
Happy Emotions Readily 
Energize, Clear & Open 
Mind Especially Since The 
Heat Eradicated Snow, 
Umbrellas Nonessential
Dear 
HERECOMESTHESUN,
Slow down there, cowboy 
(or girl). Youre gonna scare 
this weather off! Finally, for 
the first time in far too long 
we have a couple of halfdecent days and you have 
to go and get up in arms 
about it. Were not out of the 
woods yet  spring doesnt 
start until late March (after 
our spring break, ironically), 
so weve got a while until 
we can start expecting days 
like this all the time (or, at the 
very least, not entirely out of 
the realm of possibility). But 
that does mean we still have 
time to work on our spring 
booties and we can all pick 
up dem ladies. So get out 
there! Hit the gym! Do some 
yoga, some crunches and 
maybe go for a run while we 
can see pavement! Get off 
that couch now that youre 
done watching the new 
season of House of Cards, 
and sculpt that bootay!
This message totally not 
brought to you by that 
Healthy Campus initiative,
Ryan & Matt
Need advice? Send queries 
to advice@thetartan.org.
About life after House of Cards and teaser spring
Courtesy of Ryan Doran
Fraley depicts the everday lives of robots in The 
Secret Life of Robots, on display at SPACE gallery.
Local artist Toby Atticus Fraley collects many 
of the elements for his art from flea markets 
and eBay, creating robots that have a distinct 
Americana feel.

---------------------------------------------------

4gaming
pillbox 02.24.14
The cultural phenomenon that is Twitch Plays Pokmon 
(TPP) began unassumingly last Wednesday when an 
anonymous Australian opened a new stream on the 
game streaming service Twitch. The idea was simple: 
using the chat window, users could type in basic Game 
Boy commands  left, right, up, down, a, b 
and start  and a bot would input them into the game. 
There was a simple timer above the command scroll, and 
the fundamental idea was to see how long it would take 
to crowd source through one of the original Pokmon 
games, Red Version.
Things started simply enough when a group of around 
3,000 users beat the ?rst gym before the ?rst day mark. 
There were initial hiccups that were to be expected with 
any Internet-based crowd sourcing. Trolls spammed 
the start command, which completely bogged down 
progress. In response, the creator throttled start usage 
stating that he wanted to interfere as little as possible 
but would step in if necessary.
Things were moving well, with a small community 
popping up, until TPP players hit their ?rst big obstacle, 
HM01 Cut. This move is required to go through the 
game, but must be taught to a Pokmon after being 
acquired. This process is relatively simple for a sixyear-old child playing the game, but the seven-button 
sequence was the ?rst real obstacle faced by TPP.
From that point on, TPP has just been a series of 
challenges such as using Cut, navigating a tricky ledge 
path, and getting through the Team Rocket Hideout. 
Up until this point, everything had been accomplished 
through controlled chaos with several strategies being 
determined to help navigate the swelling masses 
through dif?cult tasks all while combatting the evergrowing lag.
But unlike these previous challenges where maybe 
everything could be accomplished with a little bit of 
hive-mind strategy and patience, the Rocket Hideout 
was different. To navigate to the Lift Key necessary to 
operate the elevator, players must navigate through 
a complex arrow puzzle. One false move out of 30 or 
so restarts the puzzle. After the better part of the day 
of struggle and frustration, the creator stepped in. A 
new form of control was implemented: democracy. In 
this method, all of the commands were tallied over a 
10-second period and then acted out over the next 
10-second voting period. Users could string together 
commands such as left2up3 which would have the 
player move left twice and up three times during the 
10-second period. This change infuriated much of the 
following because of the dullness. 
People were watching and playing not to see ef?ciency, 
but to see the story that this randomness had created. 
By this point, there was an entire canon surrounding 
the game. The random nicknames created by random, 
or anarchy, control had led a personi?cation to the 
Pokmon, such as the Rattata nicknamed JLVWNNOOO, 
or Jay Leno, and a Charmander nicknamed ABBBBBBK, 
or Abby. There was also a religion spawned by the 
frequent attempted use of the Helix Fossil in battle or 
while walking around, which led to religious overtones 
being pushed through the metagame, such as the overleveled Pidgeot being dubbed Bird Jesus.
One of the most controversial moments had come just 
before entering the Rocket Hideout when a group of 
players decided to get a free Eevee. At this point, there 
was an open spot in the Pokmon team being saved for 
Lapras because of the need of a Pokmon who could 
learn HM02 Surf to progress in the game and the fear 
that accessing the PC to exchange Pokmon would end 
in heartbreak, as the risk of releasing Pokmon was very 
high given the random actions of the group.
Eevee was not hopeless, however, as it could be evolved 
into the Surf-learning Vaporeon with a purchased 
Water Stone. But the stream was not nearly this precise 
and instead bought a Fire Stone, creating the rather 
worthless Flareon, who was quickly deemed the False 
Prophet. A civil war erupted on the stream and led to 
Abby and Jay Leno both being released in an attempt to 
deposit the False Prophet, who was also released.
Because of this growing narrative, which wouldnt 
have happened under democracy control, the creator 
made a concession. Players could now vote for the 
control scheme  anarchy or democracy  with a 75 
percent majority needed to swap from one to the other. 
Many recent players like the ease of democracy, but the 
anarchists staged a passive protest by spamming the 
command start9, which caused the character to enter 
the menu nine consecutive times. After about a day of 
struggle, democracy became a last-hope. Players utilized 
democracy only to navigate the most complicated 
puzzles such as the step-limited Safari Zone.
TPP has become an Internet phenomenon. At its peak, 
there have been over 120,000 logged-in active users 
capable of inputting commands and, as of Sunday night, 
nearly 26 million unique visitors to the stream. As with 
all Internet things, it spawned its own subreddit, which 
has further intensi?ed the culture and was ranked the 
36th most active subreddit. The subreddit drew in over 
66,000 users in under a week. It came with its own live 
update stream that reached over 20,000 viewers.
Pokmon is still a popular game  the new X and Y 
versions came out last year  but it has become a 
purely strategy game for most people. But TPP isnt 
about Pokmon. As the creator put in the ?rst line of the 
description, TPP is a social experiment. We have seen an 
entire subculture, complete with religion, politics, and 
mythos arise in under a week.
4chan summed it up best: [over 45,000] people just 
staged a micro-protest by repeatedly voting for a passive 
action on a[n] online cooperatively controlled Japanese 
RPG from [1996] in order to change the method of 
control. Living in the future is weird.
Carl Glazer | Senior Staffwriter
The Internet plays Pokmon Red Version 
Users around the world are collectively trying to play a single game using anarchy and democracy

---------------------------------------------------

shopping
pillbox 02.24.145
How to ?nd retail therapy on the Internet
Online shopping provides many outlets and opportunities to spice up your wardrobe
Are there times when you feel the need to go shopping, 
but are discouraged by the terrifying idea of relying on 
the Port Authority to get there? The endless wait for the 
bus and the ensuing hour-long ride makes the process 
of physically going shopping extremely dif?cult for most 
students. They often wait until breaks or visits from 
parents to ful?ll their shopping needs. While most people 
will ?nd this waiting perfectly ?ne, shopping addicts, 
such as myself, would wholeheartedly disagree.
What if you need something on short notice? Online 
shopping is a common practice used to assuage this 
issue. While online shopping is a widely-used solution, 
it  requires background knowledge in order to be done 
smartly and ef?ciently.
There is the option of ordering clothing items from the 
websites of physically existing stores, but there are 
some problems associated with this choice. Stores that 
solely function as websites generally offer free returns 
on purchased items and do not have a minimum price 
necessary to attain free shipping. In contrast, those that 
operate as brick-and-mortar stores have a minimum 
amount for free shipping. An added bene?t of shopping 
online is the opportunity to ?nd clothing that is unique. 
After all, you dont want to wear the same Urban 
Out?tters sweater that youve already seen 10 other 
people wearing on campus. Fortunately, outlined below 
is a guide to shopping online that covers a range of 
stores to suit any style.
Lets say youre a fan of the beachy, bohemian style of 
clothing found at stores, such as Free People and Brandy 
Melville. Long, ?owing maxi skirts, billowy blouses, and 
?oral kimonos are the way to go. In that case, check out 
www.threadsence.com, www.shopplanetblue.com, and 
www.saboskirt.com.
Out of the three websites listed, the one that comes 
closest to Free People is ThreadSence. While the 
concepts behind the designs found on ThreadSence 
are similar to Free People, the clothes are not the 
cheap replicas that other stores offer. The clothes on 
the ThreadSence website are not as overpriced as Free 
People, and are of decent quality. There is also a wide 
variety of clothing, as opposed to a few sweaters or 
skirts.
Planet Blue shares this characteristic, as well as the 
bohemian vibe, with ThreadSence. However, the style 
portrayed on the website is more reminiscent of the 
beach, with comfortable wide-legged pants and slouchy 
sweaters. Blouses with intricate cutouts and designs 
make it possible to also ?nd fancier items at Planet Blue. 
This website is known as a favorite among celebrities, 
including the actress and boho-trendsetter Vanessa 
Hudgens, as well as her High School Musical co-star 
Ashley Tisdale. A physical store for Planet Blue exists, 
but only in Southern California, which is a little far from 
Carnegie Mellons campus. The stores popularity among 
celebrities also means that its quite pricey. One shirt 
generally costs over $100, but their sale section is nice to 
go through occasionally.
Sabo Skirt is another worthwhile bohemian store. 
Based out of Australia, Sabo Skirt offers clothing that is 
beach-inspired, featuring bralettes, crop tops, and thin 
sweaters and knits. Theres less variety in the style of the 
clothing, but the website is reputable. Keep this store in 
mind, but wait for warmer weather before you place an 
order.
Though it has gained signi?cant popularity, the 
bohemian style is still  as one might expect  not 
everyones favorite. Maybe you prefer your clothing 
items to possess a quirky or vintage feel, like those found 
at Anthropologie. In that case, the online shopping sites 
www.shopruche.com and www.modcloth.com are for 
you. Founded right here in Pittsburgh, ModCloth is the 
more well-known of the two. While the headquarters 
for ModCloth are located in this city, it is still an onlineonly. Polka-dot dresses, blouses with cute Peter Pan 
collars, and leggings with quirky patterns are among the 
clothing available at ModCloth. Another bene?t of the 
website is its overwhelming variety.
Ruche is a smaller, and more elegant version of 
ModCloth. Many of the clothing items on both websites 
are the same, and there is a heavy amount of overlap 
between the two, but the clothing on ModCloth seems 
more childish. The same company that owns Ruche also 
owns ThreadSence, but the clothing is quite different. 
Ruches winning quality is de?nitely its array of printed 
shirts and blouses found on the website, which are 
similar to those found at Anthropologie without being 
blatant copies, but are much cheaper.
Making the transition from vintage to preppy comes 
with stores such as J. Crew and Francescas Collections. 
While you could make the trip to Walnut Street and 
deal with the possibility of returning empty-handed, 
you could also avoid moving at all and do the same 
thing from your laptop. Websites to check out for 
something different include www.jackwills.com, www.
reddressboutique.com, and www.shophopes.com. 
Most similar to J. Crew is British-based clothing store 
Jack Wills, with puffy vests, shirts, and ?tted cable-knit 
sweaters. It can be quite expensive, with the cheapest 
sweater at $90, but the clothing is also very good quality. 
Red Dress Boutique and Hopes are both very similar, 
and together bear a strong resemblance to Francescas 
Collections. They stray from the elegance of J. Crew, but 
remain bright and preppy.
If some of these stores sound appealing to you, check 
them out. You can get your shopping done without even 
leaving the couch.
Nikita Mishra | Staffwriter
Screenshot courtesy of modcloth.com
The Flutter to the Fete dress, which sells for 
$94.99, is an example of a kind of dress found at 
ModCloth.
Screenshot courtesy of shopplanetblue.com
The Beaded Silk Short Burnout, which sells for $220, 
is an example of a kind of kimono found at Planet 
Blue, a favorite of celebrity trendsetters.

---------------------------------------------------

6theatre
pillbox 02.24.14
This week, go to a party with no limits, no boundaries, 
and no compromises  speci?cally, composer and 
producer Andrew Lippas stage musical The Wild Party, 
performed by the Carnegie Mellon School of Drama. 
Filled with nonstop action and song, The Wild Party 
lives up to its name as it tells the story of a tumultuous 
relationship between two 1920s vaudeville performers 
over the course of one crazy night.
The Wild Party stars senior musical theatre major Claire 
Saunders as Queenie, the irrepressible vaudevillian 
beauty. Wrapped in a scintillating silver dress, Saunders 
absolutely dominates her place in the spotlight, 
bringing out Queenies strong personality as well as the 
characters more vulnerable side. Starring opposite her 
is senior acting major Brian Muller as Burrs, Queenies 
darkly passionate but abusive lover who becomes 
increasingly desperate as he fears that Queenie will 
leave him. Mullers performance is a dif?cult balancing 
act that evokes both sympathy and revulsion for the 
character.
Senior musical theatre major Zanny Laird portrays 
Kate, a prostitute and professional party girl who tries 
to seduce Burrs. Laird, who goes above and beyond in 
providing the energy needed for the role, is always fun 
to watch whenever she appears on stage. Finally, senior 
acting and musical theatre double major Daniel Bellomy 
is Black, a mysterious gentleman stranger who, despite 
being the opposite of the explosive Burrs, catches 
Queenies eye. Bellomy is smooth, dapper, and emanates 
an air of enigma as he seduces Queenie during the 
course of the play.
While the performances are top notch, the best part 
of the production is assistant professor of dance Tom 
Cousins mesmerizing choreography. It is a perfect 
mix of anarchy, sexuality, and elegance  the very 
embodiment of a party in the Roaring Twenties. Like 
Jackson Pollocks drips of paint, dancers ?ip and turn, 
tumble and twist, frisk and rumble as they weave among 
each other. There is always something to look at; at 
times it becomes almost overwhelming.
The choreography is at its best at its most ferocious. For 
instance, in the sequence The Apartment, when Burrs 
assaults Queenie, Saunders is roughly and continually 
thrown onto a bed like a doll. While it is clear that this is 
only stage action, it nonetheless brings about a sense of 
danger and apprehension. The lively party sequences are 
just as well executed; the amount of activity and motion 
make it feel like a party thrown by Jay Gatsby although 
there are only a dozen actors on stage. Acts like The 
Juggernaut and A Wild, Wild Party feature exuberant, 
?awless dancing in which the partygoers move as one 
cohesive whole.
Further accentuating the choreography is the dusky, 
sensual lighting. Deep, saturated hues and shades create 
intense moods  from a sweltering New York City 
apartment in the summer to a hazy daze of drunken blue. 
Furthermore, a rotating stage is used in certain acts, 
such as Queenie Was a Blonde, A Wild, Wild Party, 
and Come with Me, to show off more of the amazing 
choreography and focus the audiences attention on the 
central action.
Of course, a party is nothing without music, and The 
Wild Party brings a mixture of hot jazz, high swing, 
blues, and gospel, although it veers from actual 1920s 
music toward more like something you would hear in 
West Side Story. Nonetheless, it still has the brassy 
?avor and bravado necessary to complement the action 
on stage. The music never stops; each song blends 
seamlessly into the next, as if the whole show is simply 
one extended piece of music.
The songs themselves span across a range of moods. 
Out of the Blue expresses Queenies desire to renew 
passion into her love life. An Old-Fashioned Love Story 
is a hilarious piece sung by a desperate lesbian looking 
for love. Look at Me Now and Life of the Party display 
both the light, fun-loving and darker, attention-seeking 
sides of Kates character. Two of a Kind is an adorable 
love song between a boxer and his girlfriend. What Is It 
About Her? is Burrs song of his deep, dark obsession 
with Queenie. Let Me Drown is about forgetting your 
worries in a bathtub of gin.
The Wild Party also features beautiful vintage-inspired 
costumes. Although many costumes bear the trademark 
feathers and sequins of the 20s, the crisp, dark colors of 
the costumes have almost a Gothic feel to them, which 
tonally re?ects the appending danger and dark end to 
the story.
The Wild Party is essentially a modern take on the 
1920s, but it remains true to the spirit of the era. It is 
raunchy and relentless, and rides on a wave of chaotic 
energy toward its dark, accusatory ending. The School of 
Dramas production is truly a feast for the eyes and ears, 
and kicks off its centennial year with a bang. The Wild 
Party will be playing in the Phillip Chosky Theater at the 
Purnell Center for the Arts through March 1.
Xiyu Wang | Assistant Forum Editor
School of Drama throws a real Wild Party
Energetic stage musical depicts the tumultuous relationship between two vaudeville performers
Courtesy of Dennis Schebetta
The Wild Party stars senior musical theatre major Claire Saunders as Queenie, a vaudeville beauty caught up in a  
turbulent love affair with the passionate and abusive Burrs, played by senior acting major Brian Muller.

---------------------------------------------------

music
pillbox 02.24.147
Turning a passion for something like computer science 
into a viable career is not dif?cult. Turning something 
like music into a viable career, especially in such an 
uncommon form as the brass quintet, is much harder. 
But thats what the members of Carnegie Mellons 
ensemble-in-residence C Street Brass are doing.
What you see on stage is such a small part of what goes 
into it all, trumpet player and advanced performance 
certi?cate in trumpet student Kyle Anderson said 
during an interview following the release of Wop De 
Wop. Trombone player and second-year trombone 
performance graduate student Gabriel Colby was also 
present. Wop de Wop is a collaborative EP between brass 
quintet C Street Brass and electronic artist Jakeisrain, 
a sophomore music technology and philosophy double 
major at Carnegie Mellon named Jake Bernsten.               
C Street Brass also includes trumpet player and secondyear trumpet performance masters student Scott 
Nadelson, French horn player and advanced performance 
certi?cate in French horn student Eric Damashek, and 
bass trombone player and second year-bass trombone 
performance masters student Hakeem Bilal.
While at the Peabody Institute of the Johns Hopkins 
University in Baltimore, where the ?ve band members 
originally met, the musicians were aware that their 
art form held a limited number of opportunities. The 
brass quintet as an art form  its relatively young, but 
its almost been played out already, Anderson said. 
And so the encouragement to ?nd a niche, something 
a little more different, was always encouraged by our 
earlier teachers, but then when we got here, its like, 
you actually need to do it.... It hit us pretty hard, that we 
needed to start branching out a little more if we wanted 
to do this.
Colby added, Its not that we dont believe in the art 
form  because we do  its knowing that, and doing 
something with the knowledge. Theres so much new 
technology. Theres more possible.
The band members wanted to leave Baltimore after 
graduation but also keep playing together. We knew 
a kind of standard path that groups kind of similar to 
ours go through  or professional groups  is that they 
align themselves with a university, Colby said. So 
there are all kinds of residencies, all different kinds, that 
mean different things ... we were like, well, why dont 
we just propose that we could be resident ensemble 
somewhere? They applied to three different programs 
and got into all of them, but Carnegie Mellon was their 
?rst choice.
Everyone has other things that they do, but were 
all passionate about making this work, Colby said. 
Were trying to do everything, Anderson added. He 
explained that C Street Brass puts a lot of effort into 
maintaining their classical presence in Pittsburgh, while 
trying to build up a repertoire of electronic brass music 
with Jakeisrain. On top of that, he said that the band 
members are learning these insanely dif?cult, modern 
compositions that dont have a place in the rock hall 
or the concert hall, but were learning them anyways 
because we need to know them if were ever going to 
pass that information along to our future students. All 
of the practicing ends up taking at least ?ve hours a day, 
every day, and both Colby and Anderson pointed out 
that sometimes its much more than that.
Both Anderson and Colby cite the closeness of the 
band as part of the reason this project works at all. Its 
also kind of two-sided, because were really together 
musically, like playing-wise and sound-wise. Gabe will 
schedule gigs, Eric and I will write arrangements  
Hakeem will look pretty, Anderson said with a grin. 
But no, he does the Facebook page, and Scott does 
the website. Were all actively participating, which is 
something that keeps the motor running.
Colby said: Were also just trying to become better 
musicians, and its like, these shows are so much fun; 
our goal is to make the audience have a good time, but 
at the same time, you need to grow as a musician, and 
so we work on these insane pieces, that its sort of like a 
rite of passage to become a virtuoso on your 
instrument.
Carnegie Mellon is a place that prides itself on its 
ruthless enthusiasm, and its commitment to its various 
disciplines. As a university with a heavy technical focus, 
many of those disciplines translate easily into traditional 
job opportunities. C Street Brass is an example of a group 
of young, talented musicians who are making a less 
traditional passion a viable possibility for themselves.
Chloe Thompson | Staffwriter
C Street Brass musically combine the old and new
Members of Carnegie Mellons ensemble-in-residence are committed to following their passion
Andie Park | Staffwriter
Guy Trilby (Jason Bateman) has nothing going for him 
in life. He is a 40-year-old eighth grade dropout who 
is still bitter about losing the spelling bee. In order to 
exact revenge, Trilby ?nds a loophole in the rules and 
decides to compete against kids literally a quarter of 
his own age. In a twist of fate, he meets Chaitanya 
Chopra (Rohan Chand), a young Indian boy who is also 
competing in the spelling bee. Weirdly enough, the two 
become friends as Trilby shows him the wild side of life 
in this black comedy.
This is an advance screening of Bad Words, which will 
be released later in March. 
Bad Words
Thursday, Feb. 27
7:30 
The Butler
Saturday, March 1
9:30, 12
Cecil Gaines (Forest Whitaker) is a White House butler 
who has served eight presidents during his 34-year 
tenure. From the Civil Rights Movement to the Vietnam 
War, Gaines has been a front stand witness to some of 
the most violent and trying times in American history. 
Director Lee Daniels takes the audience through a 
wonderful journey through seemingly distant memories 
of our countrys history imbued with heartwarming 
performances from the ?lms ensemble cast. The Butler 
is a ?lm thats unafraid of showing the struggles of 
American history, as well as the beautiful endurance of 
the amazing presidents  and the people serving them 
 behind it.
Gravity
Thursday, Feb. 27  10 
Friday, Feb. 28  8, 10, 12
Do you know whats worse than being in the middle of 
this awful Pittsburgh weather? Being stranded in outer 
space. In one of the most ambitious ?lms of the year, 
Dr. Ryan Stone (Sandra Bullock) is a medical engineer 
who is sent on a mission with Matt Kowalski (George 
Clooney) aboard the Space Shuttle Explorer. However, 
things go catastrophically wrong when a cloud of space 
debris destroys the Explorer, detaching Stone from 
the shuttle and sending her into the vast blackness of 
space. The struggle for survival makes for the most 
suspenseful 90 minutes of your life. Gravity is a very 
realistic experience thanks to its incredible special 
effects, cinematography, and acting. 
dollarmovieMcConomy Auditorium, University Center

---------------------------------------------------

feature
pillbox 02.24.1498feature
pillbox 02.24.14
Theres no business like show business, and nobody knows 
that better than the School of Drama. In celebration of its 
100th birthday, the School of Drama threw a party for its 
students, alumni, and faculty to reconnect over dancing, 
desserts, and drinks at the Purnell Center for the Arts this 
Saturday following the evening showing of The Wild Party.
The party was a production; the lobby was transformed into 
a spectacle of bright neon lights and loud music to set the 
mood for festive networking and reconnecting. It was the ?rst 
in a series of anniversary parties, with celebrations in New 
York City and Los Angeles later this year.
The School of Drama has plenty to be excited about. Founded 
in 1914 as the ?rst degree-granting theatrical program in 
the United States, the school was part of an effort to develop 
a higher level of serious, professional theater by producing 
classically trained actors, stage technicians, and directors 
that could take the art to new heights.
Since its founding, the School of Drama has changed as the 
theater and entertainment sector has grown dramatically and 
come to take a different place in society. After all, 100 years 
ago, moving pictures were new, electronic lights in theaters 
were exciting, and the forerunner of absurdist theatre, 
playwright George Feydeau, was in his prime. As the turn 
of the century allowed more time and money to be spent on 
entertainment, theaters on Broadway were just beginning 
to gain momentum, and the ?rst ?lms were being produced 
in Hollywood. American theatre was taking off. Theatre of 
the past  low-level community entertainment in churches, 
nightclubs, and small stages  was being transformed into 
high-class productions to entertain a new class of people.
The School of Drama has played an integral role within this 
evolution of theatre, and continues to be a powerhouse 
within the entertainment world. In an age of entertainment, 
we are surrounded by movies, performances, and TV 
shows. The School of Drama works to allow its students to 
understand the changing role of entertainment in society, and 
to be a part of it.
Equally important as developing their excellence, designers 
and directors are helping young actors make a break in a 
notoriously cut-throat job market. With events such as the 
Centennial, the School of Drama builds connections in show 
business. It helps that ?nding famous School of Drama alumni 
is really no more dif?cult than watching an awards show. This 
past year alone, no less than eight Carnegie Mellon alumni 
brought home Tony Awards, and two more won Emmys. 
While more people have heard of the famous actors that are 
alumni, such as Matt Bomer (BFA, 00) of White Collar and 
Zachary Quinto (BFA,99), designers and directors have had 
at least equal achievements in pushing productions to new 
levels.
For a program with such deep legacy and such a strong 
network of alumni, the focus now is on what the future holds. 
Peter Cooke, the head of the School of Drama since 2009, has 
talked about pushing the capacity of the School of Drama by 
embracing Carnegie Mellons interdisciplinary approach to 
work with the more technical side of the university.
The Centennial celebrations speak to the School of Dramas 
focus on fostering a close community of students, alumni, 
and faculty raising the next generation of performance.
The School of Drama celebrates 100 years of stage and screen magic
Over the past century, the School of Drama has been at the forefront of changes in entertainment and societys relationship to the craft of theatre
Top: The School of Dramas first-ever production was the William Shakespeare comedy The Two Gentlemen of 
Verona, directed by Thomas Wood Stevens. In the hundred years since its founding, the School of Drama has 
added the distinction of being the oldest degree-granting drama program in the United States to its long list of 
accolades.
Bottom: In 1927, amidst the hubbub of the roaring 20s, the School of Drama staged a production of what 
is arguably William Shakespeares most somber play, King Lear, directed by E. Martin Browne. At the time, 
Browne also worked with poet T.S. Eliot to produce some of the authors plays. Performing the titular Lear, who 
descends into madness after dismissing the only daughter out of his three who loved him too much to flatter 
his ego, is considered one of the greatest accomplishments an actor can achieve.
                 Courtesy of Dennis Schebetta
by Sarah Moss-Horwitz | Staffwriter[]
Top: The School of Dramas 2010-11season included a dreamy production of the William Shakespeare comedy 
favorite, A Midsummer Nights Dream, directed by Don Wadsworth. The magical world of the play, complete with 
fairy kings and queens, was well-evoked in the sets design.
Bottom: The School of Dramas 2011-12 season featured a production of the pioneering dramatist Bertolt 
Brechts musical The Good Person of Setzuan, directed by visiting German director Peter Kleinert with music 
directed by Jurgen Beyer. 
Left: The School of Drama kicked off their 2012-13 season with Richard Brinsleys classic comedy of manners, 
The Rivals, directed by visting British director Annie Tyson. The plays most popular character Mrs. Malaprop, who 
often comedically misuses words, is the source of the English word malapropism. 
                 Courtesy of Carnegie Mellon University Archives, Hunt Library
                 Courtesy of Dennis Schebetta
                 Courtesy of Dennis Schebetta
                 Courtesy of Dennis Schebetta

---------------------------------------------------

10theatre
pillbox 02.24.14
Im Andrew Jackson. Im your President. Lets blow the 
roof off! (Cue intense rock music.)
Take one glance at a musicals poster promising sex, 
democracy amd rock and roll, and you instantly know 
this play doesnt take itself too seriously. The Pittsburgh 
Playhouse production of Bloody Bloody Andrew Jackson, 
an unorthodox play that brie?y ran on Broadway, 
premiered at the Point Park Universitys Rockwell 
Theatre on Friday.
The idea behind the musical is as far-fetched as it gets. 
The musical re-imagines seventh president Andrew 
Jackson as an emo rock star. The plot loosely follows 
Jacksons rise to the presidency, with plenty of live rock 
solos and over-the-top dance acts in between. However, 
the musical is not for the faint of heart or for younger 
audiences. Every scene is chock full of swearing, sexual 
innuendos, and concert-level lighting. Some jokes rely 
heavily on racial stereotype as well. For those who arent 
overly sensitive to such elements, Bloody Bloody Andrew 
Jackson is a roller coaster of a musical full of energy.
The play features a huge cast of characters. Its easy to 
forget whos who, especially if you lack a basic historical 
understanding of Andrew Jacksons life. There are 
two prominent characters that stand out the most  
Andrew Jackson himself (Reed Worth) and his wife 
Rachel Donelson (Brittany Dorazio). Both have strong 
singing voices that suit hard rock and emotion-laden 
moments. Most of the actors are local theatre students 
from Point Park University with the exception of seventh 
grader Dom Masciola, who plays Jacksons adopted son 
Lyncoya.
A historically accurate timeline of Jacksons life is 
included in each playbook, which lets the audience 
compare what they see on stage against the actual 
events. Jokes are taken to the extreme, with varying 
results. For instance, when Jackson swears vengeance 
on the Native Americans for killing his family, a crew of 
scantily clad men dressed in stereotypical garb dance to 
the Sugar Plum Fairy song. In another case, Jackson 
and Rachel cover each other with blood in some strange 
ritual of professing their love for each other.
Although it is obvious that the play takes itself very 
lightly and that these moments are for quick laughs, 
such moments could be unpopular with the wrong 
crowd. But here and there, tasteful history jokes are 
mixed in with pop culture references. Jackson uses an 
iPad for Indian treaties, complete with Siri. Jacksons 
political campaign is turned into a rock tour, featuring 
the band Andrew Jackson and the Populists. At one 
point, Jackson unforgettably says to Rachel, Sometimes 
when Im on the battle?eld suffering from dysentery and 
diarrhea, I think of you in order to prove his love to her. 
There are ample jokes poking fun at slavery, diseases, 
and the practice of bleeding out. The play could 
bene?t from having more of these moments, as they 
are entertaining for both history fans and the general 
audience.
The second half of Bloody Bloody Andrew Jackson  
which focuses on Jacksons struggles as the President  
is considerably less crazy than the ?rst. The jokes arent 
as offensive, and character struggles and moral issues 
become the focus, leading to a surprisingly somber 
ending to the play.
The set itself is impressive, accurately resembling a 
concert bar. But the set can sometimes distract from 
moments of the play that are supposed to occur at 
a battle?eld since the set is never changed until the 
second half of the play. Lighting is also notably well done 
for the small production. At exciting moments, colored 
lights ?ash as a fog machine churns along. However, 
minor microphone issues did interfere with the overall 
?ow of songs and dramatic plot points.
For the right crowd, Bloody Bloody Andrew Jackson is 
an exciting musical sensation thats rough around the 
edges. But it could easily offend, so those with strong 
opinions about the subject matter should steer clear. 
The play will be showing until March 2. Tickets start at 
$18 or $20, depending on the day of the performance.
Angela Liu | Junior Staffwriter 
Former President Jackson goes bloody crazy
Unorthodox, imaginative Broadway musical is an irreverent tribute to the seventh president
The energetic and raunchy Bloody Bloody Andrew Jackson, the Pittsburgh Playhouses latest production, reimagines the seventh president of the United States as a modern-era emo rock star, complete with Indian treaties 
written on iPads and a presidential campaign that acts more like a concert tour. 
Courtesy of the Pittsburgh Playhouse
Andrew Jackson (Reed Worth) and Rachel Donelson 
(Brittany Dorazio) proclaim their love by slathering 
blood all over each other. 
Courtesy of the Pittsburgh Playhouse

---------------------------------------------------

comics
pillbox 02.24.1411
internalJoke@zoho.com
Baa-lloon by InternalJoke
Lies by Reza Farazmand
poorlydrawnlines@gmail.compoorlydrawnlines.com

---------------------------------------------------

12comics
pillbox 02.24.14
A Day in Life by Swetha Kannan
kan_swetha@yahoo.com

---------------------------------------------------

puzzles
pillbox 02.24.1413
Solutions from Feb. 17
CrosswordIntermediate DifficultyTough Difficulty
Maze Puzzle: Tough Difficulty Sudoku Puzzle: Challenging Difficulty
Sudoku courtesy of www.krazydad.comMaze courtesy of www.krazydad.com
Start from the top arrow and find your way out of the maze.

---------------------------------------------------

14horoscopes
pillbox 02.24.14
 1. Seminary subj. 
 2. Bambis aunt
 3. Except
 4. Gallery display
 5. Actress Witherspoon
 6. Mustachioed artist
 7. I smell ___!
 8. Baby powder
 9. Eastern nanny
10. Burn with water
11. Otic
12. Part of an ice skate
13. Oklahoma! aunt
21. Rainy
22. Tropical fruit
23. Spiritual sustenance
24. Silas Marner author
25. Cost
26. Increased in size
30. Alternate
31. Lovers lane
32. Island in the East China Sea
33. Altar in the sky
35. One concerned with the bottom line
37. Exhausted
38. Chip maker
39. Wide open
41. ___ kwon do
42. Medicinal amount
47. ___-Cat
49. Capital on the Gulf of Guinea
50. Actress Sophia
51. Garden figure
52. Cravat
54. Make into law
56. What you do to a joint, prior to a heist
57. Home of the Bruins
58. In this way
59. Able was ___...
63. Miss Piggys query
64. Wow
65. Thrice, in prescriptions
66. Apr. addressee
 1.Rod used to reinforce concrete
 6. Facts and figures
10. Kemo ___
14. Accustom
15. Composer Khachaturian
16. Select
17. Starbucks order
18. In ___ land
19. Shrinking sea
20. Pocketknife
23. Participant in a business meld
27. Freud contemporary
28. Banned apple spray
29. Unanimously
34. Dressed to the ___
36. Ornamental coronet 
37. Acapulco aunt
40. In spite of
43. From ___ Z
44. Some Celts
45. Main artery
46. Sea god
48. Leak slowly
49. Aquarium buildup
53. Sewing instrument
55. Successio
60. Gators kin
61. Dull pain
62. Stradivaris teacher
67. San ___, Italy
68. Insult
69. Crouch in fear
70. Work without ___
71. Relaxation
72. Layers 
ACROSSDOWN
Horoscopes
aries
march 21april 19
You only need look to your own reflection for inspiration 
because you are beautiful.
taurus
april 20may 20
If you wish to know the mind of a man, listen to his words.
gemini
may 21june 21
A big fortune will descend upon you this year.
cancer
june 22july 22
Instead of worrying and agonizing, move ahead 
constructively.
leo
july 23aug. 22 
A wish is what makes life happen when you dream of rose 
petals.
virgo
aug. 23sept. 22
Land is always in the mind of the flying birds.
libra
sept. 23oct. 22
Life does not get better by chance. It gets better by 
change.
scorpio
oct. 23nov. 21
Follow your bliss, and the universe will open doors where 
there were once only walls.
sagittarius
nov. 22dec. 21
All the water in the world cant sink a ship unless it gets 
inside.
capricorn
dec. 22jan. 19
You will think for yourself when you stop letting others think 
for you.
aquarius
jan. 20feb. 18
Difficulty at the beginning usually means ease at the end.
pisces
feb. 19march 20
Do not seek to find the answerinstead try to better 
understand the question.
Maryyann Landlord | Comics Editor
Crossword courtesy of BestCrosswords.com

---------------------------------------------------

calendar
pillbox 02.24.1415
TUESDAY 2.25.14
Alexis Ohanian. McConomy Auditorium. 5 p.m.
Co-founder of Reddit and author of Without Their 
Permission: How the 21st Century Will Be Made, Not 
Managed, will be giving a talk about the power and 
future of the Internet.
Eddo Stern. Kresge Theatre. 5 p.m.
Associate professor in the UCLA Design Media Arts 
department and director of the UCLA Game Lab 
will discuss his work exploring the unconscious 
connections between physical existence and electronic 
simulations surrounding subject matters of violence, 
fantasy, and historical memory.
Charlotte Ullman, Cello. Alumni Concert Hall. 8 p.m.
Sophomore music performance major Charlotte Ullman 
will be giving a free recital.
WEDNESDAY 2.26.14
The Aliens. John Wells Video Studio, Purnell Center. 8 
p.m.
Three eccentric outsiders journey together through 
music, storytelling, and unique friendships to reveal 
the deepest truths about how we relate to one another. 
Performances continue through Friday night.
THURSDAY 2.27.14
Divas, Darlings, and Dames: Women in Broadway 
Musicals of the 1960s. Porter 100. 4:30 p.m.
Stacy Wolf, a professor of theater at Princeton 
University, will discuss the image of the single girl  
sassy, sexual, and employed  as a staple of 1960s 
pop culture and musicals.
Kirt Wilson. Giant Eagle Auditorium. 4:30 p.m.
A rhetorician in Penn States communications 
department will be giving a lecture.
Bad Words. McConomy Auditorium. 7:30 p.m.
Jason Batemans feature directorial debut stars himself 
as a man who exploits loopholes in the rules of a 
national spelling bee to hijack the competition. This 
is an exclusive advanced screening that is free for 
Carnegie Mellon students with an ID.
Amy Sillman Lecture. Carnegie Lecture Hall. 6 p.m.
The co-chair of Bard Colleges painting department will 
examine painting as a ?uid and open-ended material 
process.
FRIDAY 2.28.14
Jennifer Schneider, Guitar. Kresge. 7 p.m.
Senior guitar performance and history double major 
Jennifer Schneider will be giving a free recital.
DRAW2014 Symposium. Multiple Campus Locations. 
Through Saturday.
This three-day symposium presented by the College 
of Fine Arts and University of the Arts London explores 
the expanding ?eld of drawing. Pre-registration for 
workshops is required, and more information can be 
found at cmu.edu/art/specialevents/draw2014.
SATURDAY 3.1.14
Global Orchestra. Rashid Auditorium. 12 p.m.
Presented by Carnegie Mellon professor of computer 
science, art, and music Roger Dannenberg, 100 
performers around the world will be making music 
together using laptops.
OPENING
Secret Life of Robots. SPACE Gallery. 
The exhibition by artist Toby Atticus Fraley features 
a dozen scenes of robots in everyday scenarios  
domestic vignettes presenting an unpolished look into 
the unseen, and often mundane, lives of robots.
Porgy and Bess. Benedum Center. Through 
March 2.
The classic Gershwin-penned American opera 
depicting African-American life in 1920s South Carolina 
comes to Pittsburgh.
ONGOING
Judge Jackie Justice. Cabaret at Theater Square. 
Through Apr. 27. 
This new musical comedy based on courtroom television 
features cases that deal with aliens, zombies, and more. 
2013 Carnegie International. Carnegie Museum of Art. 
Through Mar. 16.
The Carnegie International is the oldest North American 
exhibition of contemporary art from around the globe.
Structures of Time and Space. Wood Street Galleries. 
Through Apr. 6
A collection of large scale light installations from artist 
Erwin Redl. 
Want your event here?
Email calendar@thetartan.org.
Compiled by Joey Peiser | Pillbox Editor

---------------------------------------------------

16gallery
pillbox 02.24.14
Maryyann Landlord | Comics Editor
Breakdancers from all over the area congregated in the University 
Center on Saturday night for Battlezone, a competition hosted by 
Carnegie Mellon University International Freestylers. Featuring a live 
DJ and multiple single and group rounds, participants battled for cash 
prizes.
battlezone.
Maryyann Landlord | Comics EditorMaryyann Landlord | Comics Editor
