PILLBOX
Carnegie Mellons student newspaper since 1906
Pittsburgh home to burgeoning electronic music scene  B8
FORUMSCITECH
Bookstore needs better hours to accommodate student traf? c  A8
Science and art collide in the new exhibition at the Miller Gallery  A4
thetartan.org
@thetartan
January 23, 2012
Volume 106, Issue 15
Gates Hillman Complex wins AIA architecture award
JACKSON LANE
Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellon celebrated Martin Luther King Jr.s 
birthday last Monday with a 
half-day of classes as well as 
several events, performances, 
and speeches. 
Kicking off the festivities, 
University President Jared 
Cohon gave his annual State 
of Diversity presentation.
The presentation went 
over new and existing university policies intended to 
increase diversity, as well as 
the statistics that are helpful 
in measuring diversity, such 
as enrollment rates among 
different demographics.
Diversity has been a high 
priority for the university and 
me personally for more than 
a decade, Cohon said. In 
the last couple years, though, 
having recognized the excellent progress we have made, 
we altered our approach a 
bit.
We didnt focus so much 
on numbers, but also on the 
cultural aspects of diversity. 
We expanded our understanding of diversity to include more than usual, more 
than just ethnicity, race, and 
gender, but to include all that 
makes people different from 
each other, he said.
Cohon emphasized that increased diversity bene? ts the 
university in many ways. 
Referencing the faculty 
hiring process, Cohon said, 
We want to make sure there 
is adequate diversity in the 
pool. Thats all we can really 
ask for. We dont want to hire 
someone just because of their 
race or gender. But when you 
make an extra effort to ensure diversity, it usually gets 
a higher quality pool. Because 
you made an extra effort to 
look harder, you found better 
candidates.
I was at last years address, said sophomore acting 
major Jordan Phillips. It was 
interesting to see the progress 
between the years. 
Phillips was generally impressed by Cohons speech. I 
thought the points made were 
very realistic. The process 
that was taken to enhance 
diversity on campus was very 
clear, very meticulous.
At the lunch and panel 
event A Social Justice Experience: Cultivating Social Moments, members of the Carnegie Mellon and Pittsburgh 
communities discussed modern issues of race and gender 
in light of Kings achievements in social justice. 
Assistant history professor 
Nico Slate, whose research 
focuses on U.S. social movements and struggles against 
racism, spoke about the unBRENT HEARD
Staffwriter
The world must rebuild 
its institutions around the 
internet, said author, executive, and business consultant 
Don Tapscott on Tuesday, in 
a speech which nearly ? lled 
Rashid Auditorium.
Speaking in the second 
Carnegie Mellon Innovators 
Forum, Tapscott gave a short 
talk. He then held a facilitated 
conversation with Heinz College Dean Ramayya Krishnan 
before taking questions from 
the audience and signing copies of his newest book, Macrowikinomics: Rebooting Business and the World.
The Innovators Forum is 
hosted by Carnegie Mellon 
to bring topical speakers to 
campus who will facilitate interesting discussion, with the 
stated aim of connecting the 
worlds top innovative minds 
with the university community. This second forum succeeded in gathering a large 
audience, including individuals from outside the university community.
In his speech, Tapscott addressed the current global 
? nancial crisis and contrasted his opinion on analyzing 
global phenomena with that 
of economist and New York 
Times columnist Paul Krugman, with whom he had often been booked on speaking 
tours. Tapscott stated that he 
was not in favor of the future 
predictions regarding the 
global markets. The future is 
not to be predicted, it is to be 
achieved, Tapscott said.
Speaking further on the 
concept of the evolution of 
the global economy, Tapscott 
went on to claim that, arguably, the industrial age has 
come to the logical end of its 
time. Instead, he stressed the 
need to embrace the internet.
Tapscott remarked that 
workplaces are currently facing a generational ? rewall, 
or barrier between their older 
and younger employees. He 
stressed the importance of 
older generations obtaining 
a reverse mentor, a technologically adept teacher to assist them in their integration 
into a digital world.
Per audience request, Tapscott used the remainder of 
his address to discuss the internets effect on social justice 
in the modern era. 
Drawing an analogy between the introduction of the 
printing press ending feudalism and the use of social media in the Arab Spring uprising, Tapscott described how 
websites such as Twitter are 
key in facilitating a new era 
of user-generated social justice.
Tapscott addressed the potential of the new digital age, 
speaking on the possibilities 
of open government and the 
crowdsourcing of raw data. 
Writer promotes institutional changes to utilize new tech
BRENT HEARD
Staffwriter
The Gates Center for Computer 
Science and Hillman Center for Future-Generation Technologies have 
of? cially become one of the nine 
buildings recognized by the American Institute of Architects (AIA) 
this year, winning the 2012 American Institute of Architects Honor 
Award for Architecture.
Opened in 2009, the Gates Hillman Complex was designed by 
Atlanta-based ? rm Mack Scogin 
Merrill Elam Architects and funded 
by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and the Henry L. Hillman 
Foundation. They contributed $20 
million and $10 million towards its 
construction, respectively. 
The AIA jurors remarked in their 
of? cial decision that the Gates Hillman Complex is scaled perfectly 
within an urban campus and within 
a uniquely dif? cult site.
Perhaps the most wonderful aspect of the project is a set of views 
and visual connections created by 
transparent interior glazing and 
non-re? ective exterior glazing, as 
well as carefully placed and angled 
? oor plates, the jurors added.
Stephen Lee, dean of the School 
of Architecture, said that the award 
was the profession acknowledging 
good accomplishments and work in 
architecture. 
Lee said that the Gates Hillman 
Complexs distinct, contemporary 
look visually separates it from the 
yellow-bricked buildings 
that line the Cut.
Guy Blelloch, a 
professor of computer science who described himself 
as a university representative who 
guided the program, was involved 
in the selection of architects for the 
buildings design as well as overseeing its development.
Blelloch said, I think [the 
award] is great and well deserved. 
Weve been very happy with the 
building.
Blelloch described the bene? ts 
that the building offered to its inhabitants, stressing the natural sunlight the interior receives. Were 
not all in little boxes, he said.
Lee also spoke of the advantages 
the Gates Hillman Complex offers 
to occupants, especially in the creation of an effective work environment.
Pointing out the buildings design and, in particular, inclusion of 
natural sunlight, Blelloch said that 
it presents an open atmosphere 
where students and professors will  
feel at home and be able to work 
collaboratively.
Many of these advantages, Blelloch said, are due to the unique 
architecture of the building, with  
angled windows to maximize sunlight and open cafe areas available 
on multiple ? oors, which foster a 
communal feeling. 
Not everyone likes Gates architecture, however. 
Ben Pattison-Gordon, a junior 
bachelor of humanities and arts 
student with a focus in architecture, said that, though he likes the 
exterior of the building and the fact 
that it has many environmentally 
friendly aspects, he has reservations about the interior, particularly the helix ramp.
Its cool that the handicap-accessible part is the central focus, 
Pattison-Gordon 
said. But navigating around the helix is really tedious. It makes getting 
anywhere take forever.
Pattison-Gordon is also ambivalent about the Randy Pausch 
bridge, which he said he prefers 
unlit. That much rainbow is really 
excessive. It detracts from the architecture around it, Pattison-Gordon 
said.
The Gates Center for Computer 
Science and Hillman Center for Future-Generation Technologies has 
already been awarded Gold LEED 
certi? cation, with the 2012 AIA 
Honor Award for Architecture adding another honor to the building.
Campus celebrates MLK Day
David Chang/Staff
Jonathan Carreon/Photo Editor
Writer Don Tapscott believes that the world should embrace technology.
Nicole Hamilton/Comics Editor
Keynote speaker Dr. Bernard Franklin participates in a round-table talk.
See INTERNET, A3See KING, A3

---------------------------------------------------

A2  thetartan.org/news The Tartan  January 23, 2012
How to Use Your Eyes, 
and How Some Animals 
Use Their Eyes
Monday at 5:15 p.m.
Breed Hall (Margaret 
Morrison 103)
As part of the Victor M. 
Bearg Science and Humanities Scholars Speaker Series, 
James Elkins will deliver an 
informal lecture on vision 
and how it is studied from a 
humanities perspective. 
Elkins lecture will include 
discussion about some types 
of vision that humans do 
not have  such as infrared 
and compound vision  and 
about how vision is used in 
art.
Elkins is an art historian 
and critic who writes about 
images used artistically and 
otherwise. 
He is currently the E.C. 
Chadbourne professor in the 
department of art history, 
theory, and criticism at the 
School of the Art Institute of 
Chicago.
An Automata-Theoretic 
Model of Programming 
Languages
Monday at 3:30 p.m.
Gates Hillman Complex 
9115
Uday S. Reddy will deliver 
a talk about a new model of 
programming languages inspired by automata-theoretic 
concepts. 
In the model, objects are 
viewed as automata, described from the outside by 
their observed behaviors, 
and internally as state transformations.
Reddy will discuss the 
models connections to previous models and to demonstrate the ef? cacy of the 
model by proving test equivalences.
Reddy is a professor of 
computer science at the University of Birmingham. His 
research focuses on the areas 
of programming with state 
and linear logic, among others.
AB Lectures: The Onion
Monday at 6 p.m.
McConomy Auditorium
Members of the awardwinning satirical newspaper 
The Onion will visit Carnegie 
Mellon to discuss what makes 
good satirical writing. 
The Onion has been in 
print since its inception as a 
University of Wisconsin-Madison student paper in 1988. 
Its online version has won 21 
Webby Awards.
Some of The Onions most 
well-known articles include 
Black Man Given Nations 
Worst Job, which covered 
the election of President 
Barack Obama, and Drugs 
Win Drug War, originally 
published in print during 
The Onions time as a student 
newspaper, which mocked 
the War on Drugs.
School of Art Spring 
Lecture Series: Wafaa 
Bilal
Tuesday at 5 p.m.
Kresge Theatre
Wafaa Bilal, an assistant 
art professor at New York 
Universitys Tisch School of 
the Arts, will deliver a lecture 
about his work.
Bilals brother was killed 
in a drone attack in Al Kufa, 
Iraq, and he ? ed the country 
in 1991. 
He came to the United 
States after spending two 
years in refugee camps.
Much of Bilals art aims to 
protest and shed light on violence and casualties in Iraq. 
Bilal is also known for using his body in his art. 
In 2010, Bilal had a map of 
Iraq, with the number of Iraqi 
and U.S. casualties, tattooed 
on his back. 
For Bilals current project, 
he had a camera surgically 
implanted into the back of his 
head. The camera transmits 
images to the web 24 hours 
a day.
Compiled by
MADELYN GLYMOUR
Corrections & Clari? cations
If you would like to submit a correction or clari? cation, please e-mail The Tartan at news@thetartan.org 
or editor@thetartan.org with your inquiry, as well as 
the date of the issue and the name of the article. We will 
print the correction or clari? cation in the next print issue and publish it online.
Lecture Preview
Carnegie Mellon Qatar 
and Hassan Al-Thawadi, the 
Secretary General of the Qatar 2022 Supreme Committee, signed a memorandum 
of understanding last Monday in which they agreed 
to commit to the successful 
hosting of the 2022 International Federation of Football 
Association (FIFA) World 
Cup.
In December 2010, FIFA 
awarded hosting rights of 
the 2022 World Cup to Qatar. 
Now, in the memorandum 
of understanding, Carnegie 
Mellon Qatar has pledged to 
provide expertise in research, 
strategic studies, and executive education to the Qatar 
2022 Supreme Committee.
The signing was accompanied by a speech from Al-Thawadi at the Qatar campus.
Working with local partners is an important part of 
the Supreme Committees 
strategy moving forward, AlThawadi said in his speech, 
quoted by a Carnegie Mellon 
press release. Our goal is to 
harness the expertise of institutions in Qatar, ensuring 
that the delivery of a successful event in 2022 is a nationwide effort.
The dean of Carnegie Mellon Qatar, Ilker Baybars, was 
also quoted in the press release, saying, Through this 
memorandum of understanding, Carnegie Mellon Qatar 
is looking forward to being 
a strategic partner of Qatar 
2022 Supreme Committee in 
national capacity-building efforts, scienti? c research projects, and Qatar 2022 FIFA 
World Cup projects, empowering a generation of future 
leaders in Qatar.
Computer scientists at 
Carnegie Mellon are working 
with the Kenya Information 
and Communication Technology (ICT) Board to create 
a certi? cation exam for Kenyan software developers. 
The exam is intended to 
eventually serve as a benchmark for employers of software developers everywhere.
Kenya is emerging as 
the epicenter for ICT innovations and a software development hub, Bitange Ndemo, 
permanent secretary in the 
Ministry of Information and 
Communication, said in a 
Carnegie Mellon press release. 
We want to lead from the 
front and be the technology 
partner of choice on the African continent, Ndemo said. 
The exam would be different from current software developer certi? cations in that 
it would require applicants to 
actually write software.
Most current certi? cations simply test applicants 
on their general knowledge.
Randal E. Bryant, dean 
of the School of Computer 
Science, spoke in the press 
release about the obstacles 
Carnegie Mellon and Kenya 
face in the development of 
the certi? cation. 
Our challenge is to identify the general skills that 
software developers must 
have and then develop model 
software systems that will enable us to evaluate those skills 
during an exam, he said.  
We also must make certain 
that the exam remains up to 
date and affordable.
Compiled by
MADELYN GLYMOUR
CMU-Q pledges advice to 
Qatar for 2022 World Cup
CMU assists in software development certi? cation
FEATURE PHOTOGabby Giffords steps down from Congress
WEATHER
Suspicious Person
Jan. 9, 2012
A middle-aged white male 
with a fedora and a long black 
coat was spotted in the second-? oor womens restroom 
in Hunt Library. The male 
told an employee that he was 
checking the paper towel machine and was gone upon police arrival.
Suspicious Person
Jan. 10, 2012
Of? cers received information that a black male wearing 
a black coat was attempting to 
open the main entrance to the 
Software Engineering Institute building after hours. 
Of? cers arrived and identi? ed the man, who claimed he 
was homeless and was trying 
to get warm. 
Of? cers offered the man 
assistance in ? nding a shelter 
for the night, but the man refused.
Loud Party
Jan. 11, 2012
University Police assisted 
Pittsburgh Police at a loud 
party on Beeler Street following reports of excessive noise 
and people streaking through 
the house. 
Of? cers broke up the party 
upon arrival. Three persons 
were cited by the Pittsburgh 
Bureau of Police.
Fire
Jan. 11, 2012
Carnegie Mellon of? cers, 
along with the Pittsburgh Bureau of Fire, responded to the 
Mellon Institute for a report 
of an active ? re within a lab. 
The ? re was contained and 
all proper city and university 
noti? cations were made. The 
Pittsburgh Bureau of Fire 
cleared the building and authorized a reset of the alarm.
Suspicious Persons
Jan. 16, 2012
Carnegie Mellon police 
responded to Baker Hall for a 
report of three suspicious persons wandering the halls after 
hours. 
They were described as a 
white male in his mid- to late 
thirties with short dark hair 
wearing all black clothing, a 
black male in his thirties with 
long dreadlocks, and a white 
female in her mid- to late 
thirties with long blonde hair 
wearing all dark clothing. The 
trio was seen in areas of Baker 
Hall, Porter Hall, and Wean 
Hall after midnight.
Odor of Marijuana
Jan. 16, 2012
University Police responded to Scobell House for a report of an odor of marijuana. 
Upon of? cers arrival, three 
students admitted to smoking 
marijuana.
The students contraband 
was seized and they received 
citations for disorderly conduct.
Campus Crime & Incident Reports
Photo courtesy of U.S. House of Representatives
Representative Gabrielle Giffords (DAriz.) announced Sunday that she is resigning from Congress in order to focus on her recovery. In January 
2011, Giffords was shot in the head while performing a meet-and-greet outside of a Tuscon, Arizona grocery store. Eighteen others were shot. Six 
people were killed, including a U.S. district judge and one of Giffords aides. The alleged shooter, Jared Lee Loughner, has been charged with 49 
counts of murder and alleged murder, to which he pled not guilty. Since the shooting, Giffords has spent extensive time in the hospital, recovering 
her ability to speak and walk. In August, she returned to Congress for the ? rst time since the being shot in order to vote in favor of raising the debt 
ceiling. She received a standing ovation. In a video Giffords released explaining her decision to resign, she thanked those who had given her their 
support and prayers, and said that she was stepping down in the interest of Arizona.
Statistically Speaking
Last Wednesday, many websites, including Google 
and Wikipedia, blacked out or symbolically blacked 
out their services. These websites aim was to protest 
and raise awareness about the Stop Online Piracy Act 
(SOPA) and PROTECT IP Act (PIPA), two Congressional 
bills that were drafted to cut down on online copyright 
infringement, but that opponents claim will seriously 
harm free speech on the internet. Here are some facts 
about SOPA, PIPA, and the blackout: 
7 million
the number of signatures on Googles anti-SOPA 
petition5 
5 million
the number of active users of the torrent site The Pirate Bay in 
200713
the number of U.S. congress members who withdrew 
their sponsorship from SOPA or PIPA after the blackout
Compiled by 
MADELYN GLYMOUR
Sources: latimes.com, pcworld.com, 
washingtonpost.com
the maximum number of years a person could 
spend in prison for streaming 10 pieces of 
music or movies under SOPA
CAMPUS NEWS IN BRIEF
TUESDAY
High / Low
38 / 27
WEDNESDAY
High / Low
41 / 35
THURSDAY
High / Low
           44 / 34 
FRIDAY
High / Low
38 / 33
SATURDAY
High / Low
38 / 29
Source: www.weather.com

---------------------------------------------------

January 23, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/news  A3
KECHUN MAO
Staffwriter
An employee of Carnegie 
Mellon housekeeping services 
was arrested by University 
Police on Jan. 6 for several 
alleged acts of theft on the 
campus.
The suspect, John Szalajda, is an employee of an independent janitorial contractor.
According to an article in 
the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, 
Szalajda, 38, stole more than 
$25,000 worth of precious 
metals, wires, and other materials from Wean Hall and 
two ? oors of Roberts Hall, 
where of? ces of the department of materials science 
and engineering are located. 
In an of? cial crime alert sent 
out to all university members, 
campus police chief Thomas 
Ogden, said that Szalajda allegedly found a set of master 
keys in a parking lot and used 
them to open professors of? ces to commit the thefts. 
Ogden emphasized that the 
incident was very unusual.
Chris Pistorius, a professor 
of material science and engineering who works in Wean 
Hall, remarked, It was pretty 
disturbing while [the theft] 
was going on.
He said that the department had been losing valuables since August 2010, and 
that students research had 
been disturbed. People had to 
take apart some devices , lock 
them after experiments, and 
reassemble them when they 
wanted to use them next. 
It was a relief that someone was caught, Pistorius 
said.
In an open forum last semester, University President 
Jared Cohon articulated issues concerning campus safety, saying, The university has 
a good, solid set of procedures 
which should cover any ethical, moral, or legal breach you 
can think of.  
He urged students to report to campus police if they 
witness any violation of ethics.
MLK Day highlights diversity
acknowledged racial segregation that still exists in America. Slate emphasized the 
importance of ? nding meaningful solutions rather than 
dwelling on or being overwhelmed by the problems at 
hand.
Bernard Franklin, a consultant and friend of the King 
family, gave the keynote address. 
In his speech, titled The 
Courage to Lead, Franklin 
focused on what it takes to be 
a leader like King, and how 
future leaders in the audience 
should be aware of all the 
leadership opportunities they 
run into. 
Through detailed accounts 
of stories from the King family, Franklin wrestled with 
how to resolve the con? ict 
between Kings human and 
superhuman traits. 
Although Franklin never 
met King, he met his wife, 
Coretta Scott King, and recounted conversations with 
her about her late husband. 
Franklin constructed a 
contrast between the human 
details of the family and the 
inherent superhuman qualities that come when talking about the deceased civil 
rights leader.
So many times we put him 
on a pedestal, and we said he 
wasnt human, he wasnt part 
of us. But this man was. He 
had his challenges; he had 
his issues, his struggles with 
life that we all have, Franklin said.  But what possessed 
[Martin Luther King Jr.] to 
step into Montgomery, Alabama...? How could a young 
man, at the age of 26, step 
into the most demanding, the 
most humiliating, the most 
pressing role?
Franklin recounted his 
own struggles with leadership. 
When he was young, he 
said, he wanted to be the 
President of the United States. 
Though Ms. King tried to 
help him achieve his political 
goals, Franklin said that he, 
unlike King, ultimately gave 
up these ambitions for a quieter life. 
I had the Democratic 
Party starting to speak to me 
about being governor of Kansas, Franklin said. But I was 
28 years old. I had just gotten 
married and had a family. The 
best of my life was still ahead 
of me. But my world in many 
ways was out of control.... I 
told Ms. King, I just cant do 
it. 
However, Franklin strongly encouraged the audience 
members who do have what it 
takes to be aware of opportunities for leadership. 
The universe is always 
creating opportunities, he 
said. Youre going to meet 
people. Youre going to sit besides people on an airplane. 
Youre going to come into contact with someone at a bookstore. Your paths are going to 
cross with people who have 
signi? cant in? uence on your 
life. But some of you are going to walk by them because 
they dont look like you.... 
But that may be your ticket to 
walk to whole other place in 
time.
Editors note: Junior staffwriter 
Rachel Cohen contributed to 
this article.
You can not only read an 
encyclopedia, you can write 
one, he said. 
The forum also accepted 
audience questions, one of 
which was submitted via 
Twitter. The topics discussed 
ranged from the role Twitter 
has taken in culture, to the effect of anonymity on the internet, to the issue of pornography and internet ? ltering. 
One topic which particularly piqued the audiences 
interest was the effect of digital communication on social 
abilities. Referencing his book 
Grown Up Digital, Tapscott 
cited evidence that increased 
technology and computer use 
by teens has only cut down on 
time spent in front of the television.
I dont see any systematic 
evidence anywhere that this 
generation is losing their social skills, he said.
The event was well received, with many attendees 
discussing it as they exited 
the auditorium. In addition, 
a number of people actively 
tweeted the event, using the 
hashtag #TapscottCMU.
Reactions from Twitter 
were largely positive, with 
posters such as ThePGHA 
writing, This is a great conversation ... future of technology, communication, social 
justice. 
However, a few users were 
not as content, with Twitter user clcatga writing, I 
thought he was going to focus 
one idea [sic]. 
First-year mathematics and 
history major Nick Takaki had 
mixed feelings. Tapscott was 
very charismatic, and it was 
clear he had done his research 
and thinking, he said. 
Takaki did express doubts 
on whether the power of the 
internet was a new topic to the 
audience at hand. 
However, he said, Its a 
credit to Don Tapscott that 
hes both ? gured this out and 
is able to communicate that 
sentiment in lectures.
Tapscott did touch upon 
many subjects in his address, 
even the potential downsides 
of the technology that he proposed that the world should 
embrace. The internet is a 
re? ection of everything that is 
good and bad in society, Tapscott said. We need curators.
Author espouses bene? ts of internet for justice, business
Photo illustration by David Chang/Staff
INTERNET, from A1
KING, from A1
Nicole Hamilton/Comics Editor
Assistant history professor Nico 
Slate discusses solutions to U.S. 
racial struggles.
Police arrest theft suspect

---------------------------------------------------

A4  thetartan.org/scitech The Tartan  January 23, 2012
Latest Miller Gallery exhibition adds scienti? c twist to art
DANIEL TKACIK
SciTech Editor
Mushrooms are used as 
building materials, mosquitoes are genetically modi? ed 
to help prevent the spread of 
malaria, and other collisions of 
art and science are displayed 
at the most recent exhibition 
at the Gouger Miller Gallery, 
titled Intimate Science. Last 
Friday, the exhibition opened 
its doors to the public.
The exhibition is the product of collaborative work, 
curated by Andrea Grover, a 
2010 Andy Warhol Foundation 
Curatorial Fellow in residence 
at Carnegie Mellons Miller 
Gallery. In her current project, 
Grover endorses creativity to 
address some of the worlds 
pressing problems.
They both have an end 
goal of revealing some kind of 
truth, Grover said about art 
and science. I want people to 
take creativity more seriously, 
to see that creativity is not just 
a kind of frivolous pursuit, but 
that it can have value towards 
answering these bigger questions about humanity, like how 
are we going to survive, how 
will we provide food and energy, transportation, and shelter 
for growing populations.
Grovers research on the 
project began in 2010. She 
examined artists who placed 
themselves in industrial or scienti? c environments to conduct their work in the 1960s. 
However, in todays internet 
age, artists have greater access to information and more 
opportunities to conduct their 
work with science and technology. Creating new building materials and performing provocative biological experiments is 
now a reality for some artists.
Philip Ross, a San Francisco-based artist and one of six 
artists whose work is featured 
at the exhibition, used fungal materials, speci? cally the 
fungus species Ganoderma lucidum, to create building materials. To do so, he cultivated the 
soma, or the body of a mushroom. A mushrooms soma is 
typically hidden from view in 
the wild.
A mushroom is actually 
just the reproductive organ of 
a much larger organism, Ross 
explained. When you pick a 
mushroom or see a mushroom, 
its just this tiny percentage of 
whats often hidden from view, 
which is inside of a tree or hidden in the ground.
To cultivate the fungi, Ross 
uses a pasteurization process 
which involves steam cooking 
a material containing cellulose 
and adding a living mushroom 
to it. The fungi then colonize 
the material by eating all of 
the cellulose and transforming 
into chitin, the main component of fungal cell walls, which 
provides its strength properties. After about two years of 
growth in a vessel chosen by 
Ross to control the eventual 
shape, the result is a mushroom-brick with remarkable 
strength. 
Their dynamic resistance 
will stop a bullet and will crush 
metal, Ross said. Ross built 
various structures using this 
material, and suggested that 
not only is the material a possible wood or plastic substitute, 
but that its a natural material 
in the wild and therefore has 
little impact on the environment during and at the end of 
its life.
Another project within the 
exhibition illustrated ways of 
using the natural environment 
to perform intricate tasks, like 
producing laser-cut glass objects. Markus Kayser, a German collaborator in the exhibition, achieved this by making 
a machine that consisted of a 
laser cutter that ampli? ed natural sunlight via a magnifying 
glass bulb and using it to melt 
sand into glass. Kayser took his 
Sun-Cutter into the Sahara 
Desert in August 2010 to test 
out his machine, which produced glass objects using the 
abundant supplies of sun and 
sand in the Sahara.
In addition to new sustainable building materials and 
processes, the exhibition also 
displayed the work of a series of 
biological experiments aimed 
at solving ecological problems, 
such as the dwindling American chestnut tree population 
and the spread of malaria 
through mosquitoes. The results of these experiments were 
shown by the Pittsburgh-based 
Center for PostNatural History, 
which acquires and maintains 
postnatural organisms that 
have been modi? ed through 
selective breeding or genetic 
engineering. 
The organisms we have on 
display here all have something 
in common, said Richard Pell, 
a Carnegie Mellon professor of 
art and director of the Center 
for PostNatural History. These 
are all transgenic, for one; that 
means they have DNA from 
some completely different kind 
of species added to their DNA.
Pell explained that the 
American chestnut tree population is dwindling because of 
the spread of a certain species 
of fungus that kills them. The 
researchers and artists are experimenting with injecting the 
trees with genes that kill off the 
fungus.
To address the spread of malaria, researchers at the University of California, Irvine modi? ed the mosquitoes, which 
carry and spread malaria, by 
injecting them with genes that 
destroy the mosquitos ability 
to carry Plasmodium, the parasite that causes malaria. These 
injected genes are able to propagate more easily than the natural mosquito genes, in theory 
eliminating Plasmodiums ability to survive, and the threat of 
malaria to humans.
Similar to Ross fungi-based 
building materials, these experiments address big issues, 
which may raise some eyebrows. 
Both of these are speci? -
cally being designed not just 
to exist in a little plot of earth, 
but to repopulate an entire 
ecosystem, which is kind of a 
provocative idea, Pell said. 
Its certainly one that we 
should be thinking a lot further 
about.
BENJAMIN MADUEME
Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellon spinoff 
BirdBrain Technologies, in 
collaboration with Carnegie 
Mellons Robotics Institute, 
recently created Brainlink, a 
device that enables its users 
to add additional functionality 
to small robots and other electronics.
Tom Lauwers hails from 
both development teams, as 
he is the founder of BirdBrain 
Technologies as well as a 2010 
graduate of the Robotics Institute. He led the development 
of the Brainlink system, which 
is housed in a white, triangular chassis that ? ts in the palm 
of ones hand and only weighs 
about three ounces.
But the systems small size 
is by no means an indicator of 
the range of its capabilities.
The Brainlink can learn 
the infrared signals from a robots remote control.... It can, 
on command, replay those 
signals, Lauwers said. It can 
also store those signals, or 
you can store the signals on a 
computer. Basically, storage is 
unlimited.
Data storage is far from the 
only unlimited property the 
Brainlink system has to offer. 
The units intuitive programmable interface, paired with 
its extensible, open-source 
Java API developed by Lauwers and his team, allows its 
users to create multiple programs for interfacing with the 
host robot. The system also 
comes with a database prepopulated with signal data 
for popular robots, but Lauwers ran through an example of 
how one would use the Brainlink with a device absent from 
the database.
You could take the remote 
that comes with the robot, 
Lauwers said. You would hit 
the forward button on the 
remote, and point it at the 
Brainlink, while running an 
infrared signal analyzer program on your computer. The 
signal would get captured and 
stored, and then you could 
write a program that tells the 
Brainlink to replay that signal. 
So now if you put the Brainlink on your robot and point 
the Brainlink infrared LED at 
the infrared receiver on your 
robot, you could make the robot go forward by using the 
computer program.
The robots other abilities 
can be programmed into the 
Brainlink in a similar manner. If the sensors provided 
by that particular robot arent 
enough, the Brainlink unit 
also incorporates an accelerometer and a light sensor that 
can help the robot react to different types of accelerations or 
ambient light levels. Several 
auxiliary ports for connecting other types of sensors, like 
proximity sensors or GPS receivers, are also provided.
Perhaps the systems most 
appealing feature is its Android API, which allows developers to create new Brainlink Android applications 
or export existing Brainlink 
desktop applications to the 
Android platform. These applications can then send 
commands over Bluetooth 
to the Brainlink unit, which 
in turn relays them via infrared signal to its host robot. 
Tutorials detailing how to 
establish this Bluetooth connection, program the Brainlink, and even customize its 
onboard ? rmware are available on the systems website, 
brainlinksystem.com.
Lauwers emphasized that, 
while the Brainlink system 
can easily be picked up by any 
typical robotics hobbyist, its 
true aim is to inspire and cultivate a desire for robotics in 
students interested in the ? eld.
We ran a small pilot where 
we had 16 high school students try out our prototype, 
Lauwers said. One kid just 
amazed me. He made a server 
to control his TV from anywhere. The server was running on a computer that was 
connected to Brainlink, so he 
could talk to the server from 
any other internet-connected 
computer or phone, and use it 
to turn off his TV ... that was 
pretty memorable.
Because the Brainlink system interfaces with its host 
devices via infrared, it can also 
be programmed to work with 
a television or DVD player, although Lauwers warned that 
its not meant as a substitute 
for an off-the-shelf universal 
remote control.
Lauwers also mentioned a potential project involving controlling robots 
with Microsofts 
Kinect motionsensing device 
via Brainlink.
According to 
a Carnegie 
Mellon 
press 
release, Brainlink was funded in part by a 
Small Business 
Innovation Research grant from 
the National Science Foundation. 
BirdBrain Technologies is also working 
on another project called 
Hummingbird, aimed at 
middle school students, that 
will enable them to build robots with typical arts and 
crafts materials. The project is 
slated to be released in March.
Brainlink increases robot functionality
Courtesy of Tom Lauwers
Brainlink, a device that enables its users to add additional functionality 
to robots and other electronic devices, uses infrared signals to 
communicate with its users.
a television or DVD player, although Lauwers warned that
itsnot meant asasubstitute 
for an off-the-shelf universal
remote control.
Lauwersalsomentioned a potential project involving controlling robots 
with Microsofts
Kinect motionsensing device
via Brainlink.
According to 
a Carnegie
Mellon
press 
release, Brainlink was funded in part by a 
Small Business 
Innovation Researchgrant from 
theNationalScience Foundation.
BirdBrain Technologies is also working 
on another project called
Hummingbird, aimed at
middle school students,that
willenablethemtobuildroCourtesy of the Miller Gallery
Markus Kayser, one of the collaborating artists whose work is featured in the exhibition, used his Sun-Cutter in the Sahara Desert to produce 
intricate glass objects.
Daniel Tkacik/SciTech Editor
San Francisco-based artist Philip Ross cultivated fungi to produce fungus-based building materials. Mushrooms sprout out of the building blocks when the cellulose, food for the fungi, is depleted.

---------------------------------------------------

January 23, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/scitech  A5
2012 Orientation Counselor Sta  Application Process
 e process for selecting counselors for Orientation 2012 is underway.  Various Information Sessions will be held to provide interested students with more understanding 
about the OC position.  Attendance at an Information Session is not mandatory.   ese are held so that interested students can meet the current Head Orientation Sta  
and learn more about the selection process and the roles and responsibilities essential for being part of the Orientation Sta .  Applications must be submitted online.  
You will be able to access the application beginning Monday, Feb. 6.
http://www.studenta airs.cmu.edu/ rst-year/oc/
 e application deadline is  ursday, Feb. 23, 2012.
Please complete the application and email it to Anne Witchner at aw0w@andrew.cmu.edu
Rename the  le and end with .doc (example: witchner.2012OCAp.doc)
PLEASE NOTE  If you do not return your completed application by Feb. 23, we will not be able to consider you for an Orientation Counselor 2012 position.
General Roles and Expectations
 Be available for trainings and throughout Orientation Week 
 Understand the role that Orientation plays in the lives of new students 
at Carnegie Mellon University
 Serve as mentor and academic and social role model for  rst-year 
students
 Have the ability to see things from the perspective of our new students, 
their family, and guests
 Exhibit the ability to work e ectively with a diverse group of team 
members
 Value di erences in others and promote an understanding of respect 
for various opinions, values, and cultural backgrounds
 Communicate accurate information to new students regarding campus 
resources, policies, and regulations
 Work collaboratively with Residence Life sta , Housefellow sta , and 
other members of the Division of Student A airs
 Facilitate and lead small group discussions
 Represent Carnegie Mellon before student organizations, faculty, 
campus departments, administrators, alumni, new students, and their 
families
 Promote the cultural, academic, social, recreational, and spiritual 
opportunities available in Pittsburgh
 Orientation Counselors must have a 2.50 cumulative QPA and be an 
enrolled undergraduate or graduate student for Fall 2012.
For questions, contact the 2012 Head Orientation Counselor Sta 
Anne Witchner, Director of Orientation x84886 or aw0w@andrew.cmu.edu
Head Orientation Sta :
 Christina Brandt  cbrandt@andrew.cmu.edu
 Will Weiner  wweinber@andrew.cmu.edu
 Nadia Sheen  nsheen@andrew.cmu.edu
 Eric Dietz  edietz@andrew.cmu.edu
 Michelle Guarino  mguarino@andrew.cmu.edu
 Matthew Ho  matthewho@andrew.cmu.edu
 Sangita Sharma  sangitas@andrew.cmu.edu
January 
Tuesday, Jan. 24
February
Wednesday, Feb. 1
Monday, Feb. 6
 ursday, Feb. 23
March & April
March 131
& April 1
Week of April 9
Saturday, April 29 
August
Wednesday, Aug. 15 
Saturday, Aug. 18
Sunday, Aug. 19 
Sunday, Aug. 26 
Orientation Information Session
5:30 p.m.  6:30 p.m. McKenna Room, University Center
Orientation Information Session
7:00 p.m.  8:00 p.m. Dowd Room, University Center
Applications will be available at  
http://www.studenta airs.cmu.edu/ rst-year/oc/
Deadline for Orientation Counselor Applications
OC candidates will be noti ed about setting up their 2.5-hour group 
interview block (see below). 
Orientation Counselor Interviews
Applicants will be required to participate in a 2.5-hour group interview 
process.  ere will be  ve 2.5-hour time blocks for up to 40 OC 
candidates for each block. Each applicant must sign up for one of these 
time slots to be considered. You must be available for the entire time 
block.  YOU MUST SIGN UP FOR AN INTERVIEW BY MARCH 9! 
CHECK YOUR availability
Saturday, Feb. 25 from 12:00 p.m.  2:30 p.m.
Saturday March 3 from 12:30 p.m.  3:00 p.m.
Sunday, March 4 from 3:00 p.m.  5:30 p.m.
Sunday, March 4 from 6:00 p.m.  8:30 p.m.
Wednesday, March 28  from 6:00 p.m.  8:30 p.m.
Sunday, April 1 from 11:00 a.m.  2:00 p.m.                       
        
You will need to sign up for your block by March 9!!
Further directions on signing up will be made available to all applicants.
Applicants will be noti ed.
Mandatory Training 
11:00 a.m.  3:00 p.m. University Center
Mandatory Orientation Sta  Training
(OCs will be able to move into their residence halls on Tuesday, Aug. 14)
Orientation 2012
2012 Timeline
NASAs Kepler and the search for Goldilocks
The Kepler Space Telescope, whose mission is to ? nd 
potentially habitable planets 
outside of our solar system, 
has been on a roll recently. In 
the past week, scientists connected to NASAs Kepler Mission have published ? ndings 
of newly identi? ed planets, 
and the results are stranger 
and weirder than ? ction. One 
team observed a planet orbiting around two different stars, 
while another discovered the 
smallest planetary system thus 
far known to science, both 
? rsts of their kind. Although 
both planets are outside of the 
habitable zone  the region 
around a star where liquid 
water can exist  the quest to 
? nd Earth-sized planets that 
might be just right for life 
continues.
Sources: The New York Times, 
Science NOW
Bird ? u study sparks outrage, fear, and debate
In November, a team of 
scientists from the University 
of Wisconsin-Madison and 
the Erasmus Medical Center 
(Netherlands) was preparing 
to publish virology research on 
a mutated strain of the H5N1 
virus  commonly referred 
to as bird ? u. The mutated 
virus found in the scientists 
studies was able to become 
airborne and contagious between ferrets, indicating that 
the new strain would be highly contagious in humans compared to the common strain of 
H5N1. 
The scientists announced 
last Friday that they would put 
a 60-day moratorium on their 
research when the public, other scientists, and governments 
asserted that the potential 
publication of their research 
would pose an extreme bioterrorism threat.
Source: Wired magazine
Medical device advances ? eld of cell sorting
A manuscript accepted 
for publication in Analytical 
Chemistry this week outlines a 
novel cell sorting method that 
could be used for detecting 
tumor cells in blood samples. 
Researchers used a well-established sorting method that 
relies on tagging cells with 
antibodies that contain magnetic beads, and then separating them from untagged cells 
within a magnetic ? eld. 
The breakthrough comes 
from the device that the team 
created: Using a micro? uidic 
device scaled speci? cally for 
? nding rare cells, the scientists were able to sort cells at 
much lower concentrations 
than previously possible. This 
opens the magnetic separation 
method as a possible tool for 
other disease diagnostics.
Source: Chemical & 
Engineering News
One journal, one university, two different takes
Separate research groups 
at Cornell University are making contradictory claims about 
the greenhouse gas impact 
of energy from shale-derived 
natural gas versus coal. 
Professor of ecology Robert 
Howarth claims that problems 
like methane leaking in natural gas extraction from shale 
makes its greenhouse gas 
impact perhaps more than 
twice as great as that from 
coal. His research is met with 
a strong opposition voice from 
colleague Lawrence Cathles, 
who calls Howarths study seriously ? awed. Both pieces 
appeared in the latest issue of 
the journal Climatic Change, 
and come at a tense period 
of debate for New York state, 
where there currently exists a 
moratorium on high-volume 
hydraulic fracturing methods 
of gas extraction.
Source: Associated Press
Enzyme research ? nds a friend in Pac-Man
Bacteria are to lysozyme as 
power pellets are to Pac-Man. 
That is the analogy used by 
Philip Collins, lead investigator of a new study published 
in the journal Science that 
demonstrates how lysozyme, 
an enzyme found in saliva and 
tears, is able to eat through a 
bacteriums cell wall, causing 
it to explode. In the experiments, scientists attached the 
enzyme to a carbon nanotube 
that acted as a transistor, 
which ampli? ed the signal of 
the lysozymes chomping motion. The study helps to shed 
light on the detailed chemical mechanism for how these 
Pac-Man enyzmes do their 
job in our immune systems.
Source: National Public Radio
Building retro? ts a savvy investment, new study says
A new investigation prepared by Deutsche Bank and 
Living Cities says that retro? tting city housing dwellings is 
good not only for the environment, but also for investment. 
The ? rst bene? t is simple to 
understand: Replace an existing light bulb with a more ef? cient one, and you will save 
energy. But banks have been 
slow to underwrite loans for 
large-scale retro? ts, and such 
projects usually rely on public subsidies. The study used 
a 231-building dataset to conclude that such retro? ts can 
easily offset the loans required 
to pay for them by savings in 
energy costs.
Source: Next American City 
magazine
Compiled By
ELLIS ROBINSON
SCITECH BRIEFS
MICHAEL SETZER
Staffwriter
Identifying whether or not 
two images are similar may 
sound like a simple task. While 
a human would surely be able 
to match similar images to 
one another, a computer lacks 
such inherent visual processing capabilities. Presented 
with this problem, researchers 
in the Robotics Institute have 
developed a new algorithm 
for identifying uniqueness 
that has yielded strikingly accurate results.
The new techniques were 
developed by professors 
Alexei Efros and Abhinav 
Gupta and research associate 
Abhinav Shrivastava of Carnegie Mellon, as well as postdoctoral researcher Tomasz 
Malisiewicz of Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology. The 
techniques are vastly different from those of previous 
image-searching software; 
instead of ? nding similarities 
in broad areas such as colors 
and shapes, the research team 
focused on ? nding unique 
aspects of an image. Put more 
simply, instead of comparing 
two images side by side and 
trying to identify the similarities, the image in question is 
compared to a large number of 
other images and their differences are identi? ed.
Gupta said that most programs simply latch onto the 
language of an image.... We 
were interested in latching 
onto the content of the language. The researchers also 
realized that this idea of focusing on content could span 
across different domains, such 
as paintings, sketches, and 
photographs, which previous photo-matching methods 
struggled with.
To determine uniqueness 
within an image, the program 
compares it to a group of randomly selected images. Instead of focusing on the color 
of individual pixels, where 
one may lose the image in a 
transition from sketch to color 
photo, the system points out 
an images unique qualities by 
? nding which pixels or objects 
of the image are rarely found 
in the randomly selected images.
For example, if one searched 
a painting of the Sydney Opera 
House, the system wouldnt 
focus on traditional domain 
characteristics like color and 
texture, or common items like 
trees. It would instead notice 
the distinct wave-like shape of 
the building.
The researchers have already tested numerous applications. One program allows 
users to take snapshots of 
where they are and retrieves 
their location from Google 
Maps. The computer searches 
for visually similar images, 
then hones in on the latitude 
and longitude of the scene to 
determine the users location. 
The system can also construct 
what is called a visual memex, a data set that allows 
users to more easily examine the visual similarities between multiple images. The 
user is able to search through 
this graphical data set or even 
create a movie of the visually 
similar images.
The Carnegie Mellon research is creating a stir in 
the technological sphere. 
Shrivastava went to Hong 
Kong to present the ? ndings 
at SIGGRAPH, a computer 
graphics and technique conference. According to Gupta, 
response to the project has 
been very positive and has 
gained interest from other 
computer scientists. 
One shouldnt expect to 
have a program with this algorithm installed on ones 
computer soon, however. The 
program, although incredibly 
accurate, takes much more 
processing power and time to 
compute than current imagesearching programs  around 
45 minutes for one search.
Despite this long search 
time, the researchers are 
proud of their work.
We didnt expect this approach to work as well as it 
did, Efros said in a Carnegie 
Mellon press release. We 
dont know if this is anything 
like how humans compare 
images, but its the best approximation weve been able 
to achieve.
Researchers create more accurate photo-matching method

---------------------------------------------------

Office: University Center 314
Phone: (412) 268-2111
Fax: (412) 268-1596
Web: www.thetartan.org
E-mail: contact@thetartan.org
Mail:
The Tartan
Box 119, UC Suite 103 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
SENIOR STAFF
Stephanie Blotner, Stephanie Guerdan, Jackson 
Lane, Alan Vangpat
COPY
Juan Acosta, Rachel Bullen, Connie Chan, Jay 
Chopra, Hannah Dellabella, Sage Po, Michael 
Setzer, Jessica Sochol, Stephanie Stern
LAYOUT
Sun Kyung Park
ADVERTISING
Grace Chung, Seo Young Hwang
Editorial Staff
 2012 The Tartan, all rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN: 0890-3107
The Tartan is a student newspaper at Carnegie Mellon University, funded in part by the student 
activities fee. It is a weekly publication by students during the fall and spring semesters, printed 
by Trib Total Media. The Tartan is not an official publication of Carnegie Mellon University. The 
first issue is free; subsequent issues cost $0.50 at the discretion of The Tartan. Subscriptions are 
available on a per semester basis.
The Editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The 
Tartan Editorial Board. Columns, Editorial Cartoons, and Reviews are the opinions of their 
individual creators. The Tartan Editorial Staff reserves the right to withhold from publication 
any copy it deems unfit.
Letters to the Editor are the opinions of their authors. Letters from within the University community take precedence. Letters intended for publication must be signed and include the authors 
address and telephone number for verification; letters must not exceed 350 words. Authors names 
may be withheld from publication upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject 
any letter. Letters must be submitted by 5 p.m. on the Wednesday before publication by mail or to 
forum@thetartan.org.
* Denotes executive committee member
StaffEditorial Board
A6  thetartan.org/forum The Tartan  January 23, 2012
FROM THE EDITORIAL BOARD
CHRISTA HESTER *
Co-Publisher
EMILY DOBLER *
Editor-in-Chief
JOSH SMITH 
Forum Editor 
KATIE CHIRONIS * 
Online Editor
EVAN KAHN
Copy Manager
MICHAEL KAHN 
Contributing Editor
WILL PENMAN
Staffwriter
PATRICK GAGE KELLEY *
Co-Publisher 
MADELYN GLYMOUR
News Editor
DANIEL TKACIK
SciTech Editor
ALEX TAPAK
Sports Co-Editor
ADAM GRUBER
Sports Co-Editor
ALLISON COSBY
Pillbox Editor 
NICOLE HAMILTON
Comics Editor
JONATHAN CARREON
Photo Editor
ADELAIDE COLE
Art Editor
ALEX CRICHTON
Systems Manager
SARAH ZAKRAJSEK
Personnel Manager
KATHY CHEN
Advertising Manager
KENNETH WONG
Business Manager
COURTNEY WITTEKIND *
Contributing Editor
GREG HANNEMAN
Contributing Editor
MARICEL PAZ
Contributing Editor
CELIA LUDWINSKI
Contributing Editor
STACEY CHIN
Contributing Editor
KELLY HARRINGTON
Asst. Systems Manager
BONITA LEUNG
Asst. Copy Manager
Cookies support Girl Scouts, LGBT rights
COURTNEY WITTEKIND
With spring comes an assortment of seasonal icons  soft 
rains, blooming ? owers, and 
(eventually) warmer weather. But 
the best of these seasonal markers are those that are edible: fall 
ushers in the pumpkin pie, winter 
brings the sale of candy canes, and 
spring marks Girl Scout cookies 
and their ever-cheerful, badgebearing band of young marketers. 
This year, however, in addition to 
a sweet tooth, Ill be counting gender equality as my motivation for 
tracking down extra boxes of Thin 
Mints come spring.
While the Girl Scout cookie has 
long faced opposition from those 
concerned with health, the cookie 
faces a tougher, more politically 
charged battle this year. The Girl 
Scouts of America have been bombarded by protests in response to a 
Colorado troops October decision 
to admit a 7-year-old transgender 
child into its troop. Bobby Montoya was born with male genitalia, 
but has identi? ed as female since 
age two. Yet when the request 
came to join the local Girl Scouts 
chapter, panic broke out. Initially, 
the Girl Scouts of Colorado rejected Bobby, but after a national 
outcry, it reversed its decision and 
stated in a press release, If a child 
identi? es as a girl and the childs 
family presents her as a girl, Girl 
Scouts of Colorado welcomes her 
as a Girl Scout.
The decision to admit a transgender child quickly sparked an 
uprising, especially among conservative groups. Most prominently 
featured in the media is the response of a 14-year-old Californian 
Girl Scout who represents a group 
calling itself honestgirlscouts.com. 
In a video posted on YouTube, the 
girl calls for a complete boycott of 
Girl Scout cookie purchases during this years sales. The girl then 
invites fellow scouts and other supporters to visit the groups website, 
which features accusations of the 
Girl Scouts of Americas liberalprogressive beliefs which, in addition to supporting LGBT rights, 
also evidently approves of abortion 
rights, Planned Parenthood, and 
radical activism.
With this swell of controversy 
descending just as Girl Scouts nationwide kick off their cookie campaigns, cookie sales will certainly 
be pointed to as proof of how the 
Girl Scouts should deal with issues 
of gender equality and acceptance 
in the future. I, for one, would hate 
to see cookie sales drop this year. 
Instead, I encourage those who 
support the Girl Scouts decision to 
buy as many cookies as they can ? t 
in their cupboards  because who 
doesnt like the sweet taste of victory?
You can ? nd the closest cookie sales to your location via the 
Girl Scouts Cookie Finder at 
girlscoutcookies.org.
Courtney Wittekind (cwitteki@) is 
a contributing editor for The Tartan. Her favorite cookies are Shortbread and Thin Mints.
CMU bookstore should update hours to better match student schedules
The bookstores normal closing 
times for the Spring 2012 semester 
are 6 p.m. on Mondays and Tuesdays 
and 5 p.m. Wednesday through Saturdays. These times seem reasonable 
for most of the semester. 
However, the times are unreasonable for the ? rst week of classes. 
Many students start the semester 
without knowing which textbooks 
they will buy or even which courses 
they will take. 
Students often do not get out of 
class until 4:30 p.m. or later. By the 
time they get a chance to buy textbooks, the bookstore has already 
closed.
Campus bookstores are in danger. 
They face threats from online markets like Amazon and half.com, as 
well as digital textbooks and online 
rental services. 
Bookstores are caught between 
providing an important service to 
students and competing in a market 
in which they no longer have a monopoly.
In this environment, one would 
expect the Carnegie Mellon bookstore to take advantage of its inherent 
strengths: convenience, availability, 
and personal service. In some ways it 
has done this  the bookstore now 
offers rental services and direct price 
comparisons to Amazon and other 
websites. However, the bookstores 
restrictive hours are inconvenient 
to students trying to purchase textbooks in the evening.
Instead of its current practices, 
the bookstore should follow the 
model of the university libraries and 
adjust its operating hours based on  
the current stage of the semester. 
During the ? rst few weeks of classes 
the bookstore should be open until at 
least 8 p.m. 
After the rush dies down, it can 
change its hours to re? ect the lower 
demand. This alteration is only necessary for the lower level of the store 
 the upstairs merchandise section 
has a different customer base and 
should continue to set its special 
hours based on alumni, parents, and 
prospective students.
Traditional campus bookstores 
serve an important purpose. A bookstore with student-centered policies 
is more convenient, and sometimes 
cheaper, than buying books online. 
Carnegie Mellons bookstore should 
continue to improve its policies to 
better serve students.
Open talks required for nonpro? t contributions to city revenue problems
Pittsburgh is heading into a dark 
age. 
Failed infrastructure projects, 
lack of tech sector growth, and mass 
transit cuts are just a few of the predicaments plaguing the city these 
days  not to mention that the population has been hemorrhaging constantly since about 1950. 
Currently on the top of the list of 
grievances is a planned $3.2 million 
of protection money taken from nonpro? t organizations to keep the citys 
massively unsupported pension budget a? oat for another year.
Why call it protection money? In 
the face of looming budget deadlines 
and starved-for-revenue sources, the 
Pittsburgh city government elected 
to ask a coalition of 46 nonpro? ts to 
cough up the money in lieu of being 
taxed  which has ma? a written 
all over it. 
There are a few major faults with 
this approach: Namely, why is the 
city considering taxing nonpro? ts 
in the ? rst place? Instead of taking 
money from these institutions, the 
city should be attempting to grow 
and nurture its nonpro? t base. With 
dozens of churches, universities, 
prominent hospitals, and other cultural institutions, the NPO sector is 
truly one of Pittsburghs major attractions.
At a time when the city council is 
trying desperately to keep graduates 
and young people within city bounds 
 even going so far as to form committees to meet that end  the council is attacking the same constructs 
that are potentially the only reasons 
left to stay in Pittsburgh at all. 
Is this an act of hypocrisy, or just 
a lack of foresight? Its hard to say. 
What is certain is that nonpro? ts provide a valuable and visible impact on 
the communities around them; in a 
weak economy in which graduates 
struggle to ? nd jobs, nonpro? ts offer 
them jobs and positions to kick-start 
their careers. 
This in turn could lead to more 
highly educated workers staying in 
the city, creating businesses of their 
own, and generating higher-salary 
jobs for other workers.
Admittedly, there are certain nonpro? t organizations (NPOs) which 
can afford to cough up a few, especially considering that Pittsburghs 
corporate base is shriveling these 
days as ? edgling businesses ? ee for 
the coasts. 
UPMC, Carnegie Mellon, Pitt and 
Duquesne are prime examples of 
super-powered NPOs which remain 
relatively untaxed. Perhaps the solution is for the city to set a ? oor for 
its taxation plans; rather than taxing 
smaller groups, such as YMCAs, levy 
a tax only on large, robust organizations which earn gross revenues 
above a certain limit, such as UPMC. 
Overall, the ultimate solution should 
be clearer communication for everyone involved. 
The Intergovernmental Cooperation Authority recently sent back the 
citys proposal (including the nonpro? t pledge amount) for further 
review; there has been no of? cial 
discussion of a pledge total from the 
citys nonpro? ts, and city of? cials 
have had only unof? cial talks with 
those groups. 
If we can get these issues out into 
the open and have a reasonable talk 
about contribution, perhaps the citys 
nonpro? t organizations can ? nd a 
healthier and more reasonable way 
to give back.
Online reaction to anti-piracy bills shows internets political in? uence
The Stop Online Piracy Act 
(SOPA) and the Protect IP Act (PIPA) 
encountered major opposition this 
past Wednesday in the form of massive internet protests. 
Thousands of websites responded 
to the proposed legislation that could 
grant Congress power to censor sites 
for hosting or linking to sites that 
host unlawfully uploaded copyrighted material. While the internet has 
always been home to activism, the 
scope of these protests goes far beyond other internet movements.
Wikipedia, Reddit, WordPress, 
and other websites ceased access to 
their normal sites, instead displaying 
pages that warned users of the effects that SOPA and PIPA could have 
on the state of the internet. The measures taken by these websites to protest the SOPA and PIPA legislation 
are a landmark for internet-based 
political activism. 
Awareness of SOPA and PIPA increased dramatically in a very short 
time period due to these protests. 
The amount of participation was incredible, with 7 million users utilizing Googles forms to petition Congress. But the effect that the protests 
had outside of the internet is what 
is truly remarkable. According to 
propublica.org, the number of opponents of SOPA and PIPA in Congress 
nearly tripled Wednesday to total 
101. Meanwhile, SOPA and PIPA lost 
15 of their supporters in Congress 
over the same time period. 
The protests were successful, with 
representatives in the Senate and 
House stating on Friday that they 
will postpone SOPA and PIPA legislation. Yet the effect of these protests 
will go well beyond their purpose. 
This activism serves as a reminder of 
the power of the internet, but more 
importantly as a reminder of the 
power of people. 
Censorship legislation as extreme 
as SOPA and PIPA would inhibit the 
same kind of creativity and collaborative force that allowed for these 
protests to happen. 
Inhibiting access to information 
would make such efforts for  positive 
change impossible. Censorship legislation like SOPA and PIPA threaten 
peoples ability to use the internet to 
its full potential.
Last year was marked by numerous protests and movements across 
the world, and these blackouts continue the tradition into 2012. 
The use of the internet as a tool 
for positive change, on such a large 
scope, should be an inspiration for 
future activism.
Christa Hester/Co-Publisher

---------------------------------------------------

A PERSONS OPINION
January 23, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/forum  A7
Compiled by David Chang
Everyone is returning to Carnegie Mellon after the holidays. So we asked,
Whats the most interesting thing you did over winter break?
Albert Liu
Biomedical Engineering
M.S.
I headed up to Griffith Observatory and basked in the 85-degree, 
cloudless winter day in L.A.
Grace Thornton
Creative Writing
Junior
I loved the opportunity to play 
games with my parents, especially The Lord of the Rings edition 
of Monopoly.
India Johnson
International Relations and 
Politics
Senior
I went to the Impact National 
Conference and ate amazing New 
Orleans food at Streetcar Cafe.
Matt Eicholtz
Mechanical Engineering
Ph.D.
I ran in the Disney Marathon Relay with my younger brother. And 
I bet I ate more Chick-fil-A than 
anyone else at this school.
Nisarga Markandaiah
Computer Science
M.S.
I went parasailing over the Arabian Sea. That was fun!
Port Authority needs more funding from state
GREG HANNEMAN
Its that time of year again. The 
snow is falling, stores are ? lled with 
early Valentines Day chocolate, and 
the Port Authority is once more running out of money.
Facing a projected $64 million 
de? cit, the transit authority spelled 
out the details last week of a 35 percent service cut that would take effect in September if suf? cient funding cant be found. The proposed 
changes make last years 15 percent 
cut look like a mere bump in the 
road: reduced service on all routes, 
with 48 of them eliminated outright 
and all but 13 of them shut down after 10 p.m. Fares are scheduled to increase in July, and continued service 
of the 28X depends on the renewal 
of a federal grant, according to the 
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette.
Despite the severity of the announcement  Port Authority CEO 
Steve Bland called it the beginning 
of the end of public transit as a significant carrier in the region  Carnegie Mellon students and long-time 
Pittsburghers alike could be forgiven 
for feeling a bit skeptical. Doesnt this 
dire prediction happen every year, 
and doesnt some of? cial always dig 
up a bit of loose change to keep the 
buses running? Usually, but that attitude misses the point. The bottom 
line is that public transportation in 
Pennsylvania is consistently underfunded; emergency bailouts are a 
symptom, not a solution. If the Port 
Authority has to go out busking instead of busing every time the annual budget is due, its because the 
authority continues to lack adequate 
support from the county and state 
governments. State aid, which makes 
up the majority of the Port Authoritys income, dropped 19 percent last 
? scal year.
Of course, a lack of state-level 
funding for transportation projects 
of all types is another well-known 
problem. Last April, Governor Tom 
Corbett created the Transportation Funding Advisory Commission 
and asked it to develop a plan to reverse perennial under-investment in 
Pennsylvanias roads, bridges, and 
public transit systems. The commission delivered its ? nal report in July, 
recommending a series of revenue 
increases that have gathered support 
from trucking companies, highway 
construction groups, motorists associations, community leaders, and 
state legislators from both parties.
Corbett, meanwhile, has spent the 
last six months diligently ignoring 
the situation, only indicating that he 
will take the commissions input into 
account in his yearly budget message, due out Feb. 7. 
Without Corbetts support, any 
transit-related legislation stands little chance of success. If the state cant 
provide a more stable funding solution, the Port Authoritys directors 
will be passing around the tip jar and 
begging for the odd million or two for 
the foreseeable future.
As city residents and bus riders, we should be horri? ed at the 
thought.
Fortunately, as engaged citizens, 
we also learned last week that our 
voices actually can make a difference. The same day that the Port Authority unveiled its shriveling future 
service, millions of young Americans 
were changing the federal governments mind about the Stop Online 
Privacy Act (SOPA). 
After a day of shuttered websites, concerted petition-signing, and 
phone calls to elected representatives, The New York Times reported 
Thursday that at least seven members of Congress  including some 
of SOPAs original co-sponsors  had 
withdrawn their support from a bill 
they had previously regarded as uncontroversial.
Corbett needs a similar wakeup call now. The thousands of us in 
Pittsburgh who depend on public 
transit for school, work, shopping, 
and amusement need to make it clear 
that we cannot tolerate continued 
uncertainty in transportation funding. The Transportation Funding 
Advisory Commissions recommendations already enjoy broad support 
outside the state capitol; they should 
be translated into law as quickly as 
possible. 
They would generate $2.7 billion 
a year in new revenue while costing 
the average motorist $2.57 a week, 
about the price of a single trip downtown on the 61C. With the commissions proposals in place, the Port Authority would bene? t to the tune of 
$32 million to $48 million annually. 
That money wont instantly solve 
all of the agencys problems, but it 
would be a good start and  more 
importantly  a dependable source 
of revenue for years to come.
Corbetts of? ce can be reached at 
(717) 787-2500 or online at www.
governor.state.pa.us.
Greg Hanneman (ghannema@) is a 
contributing editor for The Tartan.
Josh Smith/Forum Editor
Pittsburgh should embrace new hipster label
ZANETA GRANT
Theyre everywhere nowadays 
 sitting in coffee shops and riding 
their ? xies around town with their 
oversized non-prescription glasses, 
tight jeans, and notable facial hair 
(although thats mostly guys).
Hipsters have of? cially taken over 
Pittsburgh. At least, The Washington 
Post thinks they have. The papers 
article provides many reasons why 
Pittsburgh has surpassed Portland, 
Oregon as the home to hipsters. With 
its cheap cost of living, interesting accent, and unique places, Pittsburgh is 
a hipsters dream.
But how should Pittsburgh feel to 
be the new home to hipsters? People 
have various opinions about hipsters, 
but there is no prominent reason to 
dislike or fear hipsters. Hipsterism 
is a new American subculture that 
has developed like the ones before it. 
We should embrace it. 
At ? rst, it was an easy target for 
ridicule because of its counterculture lifestyle. Some people thought 
hipsters were obnoxious because of 
their seemingly meticulous effort 
to display a nonchalant persona, so 
they made fun of them. 
Then, the jokes started to die 
down as more people decided that 
it was actually cool to be a hipster. 
Ironically, the subculture that developed to deviate from the mainstream 
became the mainstream  hence  
the emergence of Urban Out? tters. 
Now hipsterism is a hot trend just like 
grunge, punk, gangsta, and other 
fads that used to be in style.
Some people have taken hipsterism too seriously. Douglas Haddow, 
a Canadian freelance writer, claims 
in his essay Hipster: The Dead End 
of Western Civilization that hipsters 
mark the decline of civilization. It is 
highly improbable that a group of 
young adults who have an unconventional fashion sense and drink cheap 
beer are going to destroy centuries of 
societal development.
This is not the ? rst counterculture 
trend to develop, and it certainly 
wont be the last. In addition to the 
aforementioned subcultures, there 
were the hippies of the 60s, the 
greasers of the 50s, even the ? appers 
of the 20s. 
These subcultures began with a 
group of people wishing to create an 
identity apart from societal conventions and they eventually moved into 
the mainstream. 
In essence, each subculture 
evolved into a de? ning aspect of a 
certain time period. Isnt this what 
we are witnessing today with hipsters?
There is a normal cycle where, 
every few decades, there is a more 
daring and experimental generation. 
It is natural human progression. Being a hipster is part of todays youth 
just as being hippies represented the 
American youth of the 60s. We are 
the new generation that wants to experiment and to be more self-aware. 
So get ready, Pittsburgh, and love 
your hipsters, because no matter how 
weird they may be to you, the future 
is in their hands.
Zaneta Grant (zcg@) is a staffwriter 
for The Tartan.
LEADERSHIP PERSPECTIVESStudent body VP provides updates
SANGITA SHARMA
Many of you are probably wondering where we have been and 
what we have been up to, since 
there has been minimal product to 
show our progress from this past 
semester. For better or for worse, 
many of the initiatives we had 
hoped to complete ended up being 
major projects for other organizations and groups. This is great for 
the campus community but has 
made it dif? cult for us to ? gure out 
where to go next.
Our ? rst priority was to revamp 
Parents and Family Weekend, but 
a month later we heard about the 
plans for Cilidh Weekend. As your 
student body representatives, we 
made our best efforts to attend 
events and help out in every way 
possible. Our next mission was the 
shuttle system, and then we found 
out it was completely restructured 
over the summer. We are currently 
looking into the changes that were 
made and are collecting data to determine how successful they were.
Most recently, our focus was on 
the creation of a centralized events 
calendar for student organization 
events. 
After hours in meetings with 
students in Senate, staff in Student 
Activities, and potential programmers, we came up with the ideal 
model for a central calendar. Just 
as we were about to make progress 
we faced another halt. 
The Student Activities of? ce 
has been searching for a potential 
new software system to replace 
the current OrgTracker and BudgetTracker. In their search, they 
came across a new system with 
a feature that serves as a central 
events calendar. Since the Student Activities of? ce is still unsure 
whether it will be moving forward 
with this new program, we have 
decided to pause our process and 
not hire anyone to work on our calendar.
We should be ? nding out in 
a few weeks if Student Activities 
plans to move forward with this 
new software, and if it does not, we 
will keep moving forward with our 
original idea in hopes of launching 
it in the latter half of this semester.
Sangita Sharma
Student Body Vice-President
Samantha Ward/Staff
For better or for 
worse, many of 
the initiatives 
we had hoped to 
complete ended 
up being major 
projects for other 
organizations and 
groups.

---------------------------------------------------

A8  thetartan.org/sports The Tartan  January 23, 2012
ADAM GRUBER
Sports Co-Editor
The epic saga of the NBA 
has begun since we last covered it. The lockout-shortened 
season of 66 games in 123 
days is a formula for excitement, with more NBA games 
per day than one could have 
ever hoped for. However, the 
big news this week is that 
Oklahoma City Thunder point 
guard Russell Westbrook 
signed a ? ve-year, $80 million 
contract extension. Amidst 
this hectic, compressed season, did the Thunder prematurely pull the trigger on this 
deal with its point guard?
Westbrooks play since being drafted fourth in 2008 by 
the Seattle Supersonics (and 
moving to Oklahoma City in 
2008) has been dominant, dynamic, and superstar-worthy. 
His career numbers are gaudy, 
and his quickness and athleticism are only matched by 
his draft-mate Derrick Rose, 
the number one pick of that 
draft and the reigning MVP. 
Yet Westbrook has always 
been criticized for his erratic 
shooting, his questionable 
decisions, and his shoot-? rst 
mentality  given that hes a 
point guard and given that his 
teammate, Kevin Durant, is a 
two-time scoring champion.
His line of 17.9 points per 
game, 7.0 assists per game, 
and 4.8 rebounds per game 
is impressive, and over the 
last two years hes averaged 
20-plus points per game. But 
Westbrooks shooting percentage is a lukewarm 42.3 percent for someone who shoots 
as much as he does. His 27.4 
percent shooting from the 
three-point line is equally mediocre. 
Additionally, the suspect 
decision of Westbrooks contract extension is proven more 
questionable by the well-documented rifts between Durant 
and Westbrook. Earlier this 
year, during a time out, they 
had an argument that had the 
media riled. When asked, they 
said they have no issues, but 
the camera never lies. Both 
are potent scorers and have 
garnered the right to shoot a 
high volume of shots; given 
Westbrooks ef? ciency woes, 
why should the Thunder hold 
on to a point guard who takes 
shots away from the more ef? cient Durant (46.3 percent 
career shooting, 49.8 percent 
this season)? Having two volume scorers is not a good formula for a championship run.
Westbrook is most de? -
nitely a superstar, but he is 
not the right ? t for Oklahoma 
City. Durant was signed to 
a big contract extension last 
year, signifying the Thunders desire to hold on to him. 
Given the chemistry between 
the two players, the extension led most to believe that 
Westbrook would leave the 
Thunder either by trade or 
free agency. 
Westbrooks contract extension makes sense if the 
trade route is the direction the 
Thunder is heading in. Even 
though Westbrook is having 
a down year, no team would 
argue his superstar status, 
and many would jump at the 
chance to trade for him.
An interesting trade that 
comes to mind would be to 
make a move for the Boston 
Celtics all-star point guard 
Rajon Rondo. Celtics general 
manager Danny Ainge recently reported that they would 
be willing to blow up the big 
three of former all-stars and 
future Hall-of-Famers Ray Allen, Paul Pierce, and Kevin 
Garnett if it meant a better 
situation. Although Rondo 
is the piece they would like 
to hold on to, if those three 
players were to be elsewhere 
next season, building a team 
around the shoot-? rst Westbrook makes more sense considering that, sans Jeff Green, 
the pass-? rst Rondo would 
have no good scorers to pass 
to. Westbrook would have the 
chance to play with his former 
teammate, Green, and would 
be excellent for helping the 
storied franchise rebuild, especially if Ainge blows up the 
Celtics.
For the Thunder, Rondos 
rebounding and defense 
matches Westbrooks, yet he 
is a much better passer and 
decision maker. Rondos 9.4 
assists per game are second in 
the NBA, and those assists in 
Oklahoma City would be effectively dealt to Durant and 
guard James Harden, who 
could ? ll the second scoring 
option role nicely. Also, you 
cant forget how close Rondo 
and now-Thunder center Kendrick Perkins were when they 
were both in Boston. Rondo 
was very upset when the trade 
was made that sent Perkins to 
Oklahoma City.
The Thunder is favored to 
win the Western Conference 
 but Westbrook might not 
be part of the formula that 
could bring the Larry OBrien 
Trophy to Oklahoma City. 
Given how quickly the season 
is rolling along and considering the approaching contract 
extension deadline, maybe 
the Thunder felt pressured 
to pull the trigger on keeping 
Westbrook. Only time will tell 
if this is a good parntership 
and only a championship will 
prove its worth.
CARINEH GHAFAFIAN
Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellons football 
team will be joining the Presidents Athletic Conference 
(PAC) at the start of the 2014 
season as an af? liate member, 
while still maintaining full 
University Athletic Association (UAA) membership in all 
other varsity sports.
The Tartans will continue 
to play football against their 
UAA opponents, Washington 
University in St. Louis and the 
University of Chicago. The 
team will also continue to play 
against Case Western Reserve 
Universitys football team, as 
it will be joining the PAC in 
2014 as an af? liate member 
alongside Carnegie Mellon.
Carnegie Mellon was a full 
member of the PAC from 1968 
to 1989, until joining the UAA 
conference in 1990 as a founding member. 
During their time in the 
UAA, the Tartans won eight 
UAA championships and won 
an NCAA Division III playoff 
game against Millsaps College 
in 2006.
Weve had a great relationship with the UAA, said 
Carnegie Mellon head football 
coach Rich Lackner. Were 
one of the founding members, 
and we have a strong commitment to the UAA as a sports 
association. Weve had some 
great competition in the UAA 
over the years.
Joining the PAC conference 
will enable Carnegie Mellon 
football to qualify for NCAA 
playoffs, being that the UAA 
is not a qualifying conference 
with only four football team 
members. Although UAA 
teams can be invited to the 
playoffs, PAC champions are 
automatic entrants into the 
NCAA Division III playoffs.
The best part about rejoining the PAC is that a lot of 
old rivalries will be renewed, 
said junior fullback Jake Nardone. Its also exciting to 
know that an automatic playoff bid will be up for grabs every season.
There were also scheduling dif? culties, given the lack 
of football teams in the UAA. 
Its very dif? cult these 
days to schedule three UAA 
games, and then not have another conference or af? liation 
to go along with and just try to 
schedule seven independent 
games, Lackner said.
The PAC will also bring 
more competition closer to 
home, as conference members 
include teams from Pennsylvania, Ohio, West Virginia, 
and Kentucky, and the Tartans will not have to travel to 
Illinois for conference games. 
The wider variety of competing teams will enable the Tartans to experience new offensive and defensive schemes, 
as well as build new relationships with other teams.
The Tartans hope to compete at the high level they 
once did in their ? rst stint in 
the PAC, which included a 
conference championship in 
1989. The current ? rst-years 
will lead the Tartans as seniors in their ? rst season in 
the PAC.
Tartans football to join PAC in 2014
Courtesy of Keith Allison via Flickr
Russell Westbrook signed a ? ve-year, $80 million extension with OKC.
SPORTS COMMENTARYIs Westbrooks extension a good call?
ATHLETE PROFILEJacquie Shaw a top-tier scorer and rebounder for Tartans
ALEX TAPAK
Sports Co-Editor
Sophomore mechanical engineering major Jacquie Shaw 
has been one of the top performers for the womens basketball team this season. She 
is third on the team in scoring 
and rebounding, and second 
in ? eld goal percentage, helping lead the Tartans so far in 
the 2012 season (69, 04).
Shaw enjoys the communal 
aspect of being on the basketball team. I have played basketball since third grade, she 
said. Its not hard to ? nd girls 
passionate about basketball, 
but it is rare to ? nd people that 
are just as passionate about 
academics as they are about 
basketball.
Shaw is averaging 11.1 
points per game on 51.0 percent shooting. She is also grabbing 5.7 rebounds a contest.
 Her most impressive performance this season was in 
the Tartans opening game 
against Elmira College last 
November, where she lead the 
team with 24 points and nine 
? eld goals.
This season, Shaws goal is 
to improve her overall record 
and play. I am sure you know 
of our less than successful record last season [(...)] and we 
just want to get better every 
single day, she said.
Her teammates respect her 
abilities and her focus on the 
basketball court. Jacquie is 
a hard worker, she comes to 
practice every day focused and 
ready to work, said junior forward Emily Peel. She is also 
a great competitor and aggressor in games. She looks to 
drive to the basket, get steals, 
and set up her teammates.
Shaw couldnt put her ? nger on what she thought was 
the funniest memory of the 
team, but admitted there are a 
lot of funny moments. Jennifer Elkin is de? nitely the clown 
of our team. She is always instigating something or singing 
with her voice of an angel to 
keep things lively, Shaw said.
Shaw loves the lifestyle of a 
college athlete, as she is fond 
of traveling for road games. 
Im from the West Coast so 
Ive never been to a lot of these 
cities before, and though we 
dont spend a lot of time in 
each city, I appreciate it. Last 
year was the ? rst time Id ever 
been to New York, and it was 
cool to walk around Times 
Square, Shaw said.
Along with seeing new 
places, Shaw and her team 
have a lot of fun on the road. 
On away trips, I just like to 
chill out and listen to music, 
she said. Its nice to get away 
from campus. Since I dont 
have a television in my house, 
I also cant complain about the 
television and hot tub that hotels provide.
Another part of the teams 
culture is eating. I think the 
basketball team will eat about 
anything, especially if its free. 
But I must say we have a soft 
spot for Chipotle and pasta. 
We eat a lot of pasta, Shaw 
described.
When asked what she 
was planning on doing postgraduation, Shaw said, After 
completing my degree, I have 
no idea what I would like to 
do. Maybe something with engines.
The Tartans play the New 
York University Violets (96, 
13) this Friday on the road in 
a conference rival match-up.
SPORTS COMMENTARY
Joe Paterno dies a coaching legend
ADAM GRUBER
Sports Co-Editor
Just a day after former 
Penn State University football coach Joe Paterno was 
reported to be in critical condition due to his two-month 
battle with lung cancer, he 
passed away at the age of 85 
on Sunday.
Paternos legacy is immortal. Despite the recent 
scandal involving former 
Penn State football assistant 
coach Jerry Sandusky and 
numerous children Sandusky 
allegedly sexually assaulted, 
Paternos legendary 62-year 
coaching career outshines 
any tarnishing that may have 
happened during the last 
three months.
Paternos coaching career 
 entirely with the Nittany 
Lions  includes ? ve undefeated seasons, three Big 
Ten Championships, and two 
National Championships. His 
409 Division I-A FBS wins are 
the most in the history of college football. He also topped 
every coach in bowl game appearances (37) and victories 
(24). His coach of the year 
awards are in no short supply 
and he superbly deserved his 
Sports Illustrated Sportsman 
of the Year honor in 1986. His 
induction into the College 
Football Hall of Fame in 2007 
came as no surprise to all college football followers.
The rsum so inadequately listed above is just a 
speck of how truly great Paterno was. Since joining Penn 
State football as an assistant 
coach in 1950 and his promotion to head coach in 1965, 
Paterno built the football 
program into one of the most 
dominant in college football 
history, and was also a hero 
to the entire campus.
In 2010, the Maxwell 
Football Club of Philadelphia established the Joseph 
V. Paterno Award to be given 
to the college football coach 
who has made a positive 
impact on his university, his 
players and his community. 
But after the Sandusky scandal the following year, the 
award was discontinued.
I implore the world to not 
follow the lead of this club. 
Do not let your last memory 
of Paterno be his de? ning 
moment in your minds. Sixtytwo years of greatness outshines, dissolves, and  may 
I say  excuses three months 
of scandal. He may have been 
quiet when he needed to 
speak up, but he was in? uential beyond imagination in 
the most positive of lights.
As abruptly as his career 
at Penn State ended, his precious life was taken away 
from all of his fans at Penn 
State and from all of his admirers nationwide. His heart 
beat for Penn State football 
and his blood was colored 
royal blue and white.
Yesterday, the legendary 
Paterno passed away, leaving behind an unmatchable 
legacy. Where everything 
started for Paterno is where 
it ended  at Penn State. He 
was hospitalized at State College Hospital, and it is poetic 
that his life would end at the 
place where he gave so much 
love and received so much respect.
Courtesy of pennstatelive via Flickr
Joe Paterno left behind a very storied college football coaching legacy.
Celia Ludwinski/
Contributing Editor

---------------------------------------------------

Wild Stuff
Pop-up vintage store opens, combines 
three Lawrenceville favorites  B7
01.23.12 Volume 106, Issue 15
The Rhythm Thief
Students form hip-hop group with 
community rappers  B4
PITTSBURGHS  CONCERT  SCENE  
PITTSBURGHS  CONCERT  SCENE  

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
A look into the minds of procrastinators is 
featured in this weeks comics section.
11
Dollar Movie
AB Films presents four baseball-themed 
movies this week.
7
Paperhouse
A look into the electronic music scene reveals 
a lack of female DJs.
5
The Tartan . Box 119 . UC Suite 103 . Carnegie Mellon University . 5000 Forbes Ave . Pittsburgh, PA 15213 . www.thetartan.org .  2012 The Tartan
CO-PUBLISHER Christa Hester CO-PUBLISHER Patrick Gage Kelley EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Emily Dobler
PILLBOX EDITOR Allison Cosby COMICS EDITOR Nicole Hamilton 
ART EDITOR Adelaide Cole PHOTO EDITOR Jonathan Carreon 
COPY MANAGER Evan Kahn COVER Juan Fernandez
55
4478
regulars...
Advice
Everything you need to know about mono, 
SOPA, and PIPA.
3
...diversions
...this week only
John Green
The Fault in Our Stars draws readers in with its 
wit and humor.
3
Rhythm Thief
The student-formed hip-hop group discusses 
recording its upcoming E.P.
4
Tycho
Ennui, Beacon, and Tycho fill the Shadow 
Lounge with ethereal sounds.
5
Seth Meyers
SNLs Weekend Update host puts on a 
personal standup show.
6
Wild Stuff
A pop-up vintage store opens in Lawrenceville, 
combining three local favorites.
7
Music Scene
Pittsburghs growing music scene is drawing 
talented groups to its venues.
8
Bronies
Unlikely fans of the My Little Pony series form 
an unofficial club on campus.
10
Did You Know?
One theory claims that a man can play 
baseball with himself on Mars.
10
Puzzles
Take a break from work and challenge yourself 
with this weeks sudoku and kakuro puzzles.
13
Horoscopes
See what the stars have in store for you for the 
upcoming week.
14
Calendar
Find out whats happening on campus and 
around Pittsburgh.
15
1010

---------------------------------------------------

literature
pillbox 01.23.123
John Green releases new book
The Fault in Our Stars explores relationships, human condition
Even before it was released earlier this month, The 
Fault in Our Stars has promised to stand out from 
the rest of John Greens bibliography. This is in no 
small part due to Greens unprecedented decision 
to sign all 150,000 copies of the first printing of 
his fourth novel (fifth if you include Will Grayson, 
Will Grayson, which he co-wrote with writer David 
Levithan).
The Fault in Our Stars lives up to the tremendous 
hype that Greens cult following has built around 
its release, such as Photoshopping images of the 
book on to Ferdinand Pauwels Martin Luthers 95 
Theses.
Like all of Greens previous works, The Fault in Our 
Stars explores the depths of the human condition 
and the ways in which the relationship between the 
self and society changes. However, the book feels 
much more immediate and visceral than anything 
else Green has written, perhaps barring his first 
book Looking for Alaska.
This can immediately be attributed to the two 
central characters in the novel, Hazel Lancaster and 
Augustus Waters, two teenagers who have been 
diagnosed with thyroid cancer and osteosarcoma, 
respectively. Both main characters display the wit 
and humor that are characteristic of Greens work, 
but the knowledge that either character could die 
at any time results in the humor merely magnifying 
the constant threat of death. The supporting cast  
fellow cancer patients, an emotionally volatile family, 
and health care professionals who are oblivious to 
the lives of their patients  also contributes to the 
bleak tone of the book.
Greens dedication to his work shines most brightly 
within The Fault in Our Stars. It is not hard to 
see why, considering Green has previously stated 
that this novel was partially influenced by being 
a chaplain at a childrens hospital, an experience 
that had a great impact on him. The epigraph, an 
excerpt from a book that exists only within the world 
of The Fault in Our Stars, and the use of the band 
The Hectic Glow  a musical idea proposed in 
Green and his brothers YouTube series Vlogbrothers 
 help to create a very insular universe.
While at times The Fault in Our Stars seems to lack 
the feeling of having an overarching plot, it becomes 
a montage of moments held together with teenage 
intellectualism and emotional confrontations that 
somehow manages to remain cohesive.
Matt Mastricova | Staffwriter
Courtesy of vlogbrothers via YouTube
John Green talks about his new book, The Fault in Our Stars, in a YouTube video. Green produces weekly 
videos  with his brother, Hank  discussing various topics.
Advice for awkward people
Dear Patrick,
Ive been sick with mono 
all winter break. Im 
feeling better now, but Im 
not sure how I got it in the 
first place. I know I dont 
want to get sick again. 
Do you have any tips for 
preventing a relapse?
Thanks,
Keeping Isolated, Should 
Stay Indoors, Need Guts 
During Illness, Should 
Easily Avoid Social 
Encounters
Dear KISSING DISEASE,
Consider mono punishment 
for your hedonistic lifestyle. 
The debauchery that defined 
your last semester is going 
to have to go if you want to 
stay healthy. For starters, no 
booze. Mono messes with 
your liver, so if you have a 
drink, youll die. Probably. I 
dont actually know, but that 
sounds about right. Next, 
dont trip and fall, or your 
spleen will explode and youll 
die. Thats actually true, so 
make sure your shoes are 
tied. Dont overexert yourself 
or you could be too tired to 
go home, and youll collapse 
in the street and die.
I know, I know  drinking 
until youre falling down in 
the street is your favorite 
hobby, but thats probably 
what got you into this in the 
first place.
Mono is the anti-fun,
Patrick Hoskins
Dear Patrick,
Have you heard about 
this SOAP and Pippa 
Middleton thing? I had 
to write a paper the 
other day, but Wikipedia 
was down. What does 
the royal family have to 
do with Congress and 
bathing? Luckily, one of 
the computer science 
boys on my floor got me 
around it.
I need this explained,
Anything Remotely 
Technical Might Actually 
be Jibberish Or Rubbish
Dear ART MAJOR,
Youre probably the last 
person on the planet to hear 
about this. Its not SOAP and 
Pippa everyones concerned 
with, but SOPA and PIPA, or 
the Stop Online Piracy Act 
and the PROTECT IP Act. 
Basically, everyones freaking 
out because they say it will 
censor the internet. Some of 
the concerns are legitimate 
and some are overblown, 
but everyones in a huff 
about it.
You probably dont need 
to worry about Wikipedia 
going black again. It was an 
emergency move to stop 
those bills from passing.
You wont have to learn 
to write a paper any time 
soon,
Patrick Hoskins
Need advice? Send queries 
to advice@thetartan.org.
About mono, SOPA, and PIPA

---------------------------------------------------

4music
pillbox 01.23.12
Seniors Terence Einhorn, majoring in Chinese and 
decision science, and Adam Kriegel, majoring 
in electrical and computer engineering with a 
concentration in audio engineering, have found the 
secret to remaining sane under the pressures of their 
coursework. Their unlikely partnership as The Rhythm 
Thief, a jazz-infused hip-hop experiment incorporating 
the work of local rappers and artists, provides an outlet 
for them to escape the grind of classes and academic 
responsibility.
On Feb. 10, the group will release its ? rst E.P. entitled 
5234 Forbes Avenue, a ? ve-song collaboration with local 
Pittsburgh group Heroes & Terrorists, better known 
as H&T, which includes Carnegie Mellon sophomore 
business administration major Kai Roberts.
Einhorn and Kriegel met as ? rst-years and began making 
music together by the time they were sophomores. 
During their junior years, they moved into 5234 Forbes 
Avenue, the house which their E.P.s name honors. 
According to Kriegel, they began dabbling in hip-hop 
as seniors because it was the simplest form of music for 
them to create as amateurs. However, this frame of mind 
quickly expanded as they explored the genre.
As we started to get more advanced, all of us started to 
realize that hip-hop could be a pretty serious art form, 
Kriegel said. Their respect for the intricacies of creating 
memorable beats is apparent in the layered songs on the 
E.P.
The name The Rhythm Thief derives from the ? rst 
track of a Sparks album that tells the story of a mythical 
demon thief stealing the beats out of songs.
The idea is so genius; this tiny, little, crazy dude 
stealing instruments from people, Einhorn said. 
Although he admits he never really knew what the song 
was about, he wanted to represent this idea. Its not me, 
its my sound, he explained. Einhorn had always worked 
under this name, so when he and Kriegel created the 
project, they assumed the title by default.
When working together, they represent the opposite 
sides of a spectrum: Kriegel compared Einhorn to a cook 
or a chef, while he assumed the role of a food chemist. 
Kriegel looks at the frequencies and qualities of noise, 
performing tasks in the very beginning and end of the 
process. Setting up, mastering, and editing all fall under 
his role as audio engineer.
Youre looking for a speci? c sound, Kriegel explained. 
You have to make sure its ready for radio play, ear buds, 
a persons phone walking down the streets, radios.
According to the duo, the countless number of 
uncertainties demanded attention to detail in order to 
eliminate audio problems. They made an analogy to a 
goalkeeper: The audience only notices him when hes 
doing a bad job. Using this as a guideline for their music, 
they knew that a song was complete only when they 
could no longer hear ? aws in it.
While Kriegel works to lay down the beginning pieces 
of a song, Einhorn adds the instrumentation. His 
musical background in jazz enables him to compose 
using saxophone, ? ute, clarinet, guitar, and bass. They 
emphasized the fact that they do not use any sampling 
in their tracks, calling it a cheap art form. Many of the 
instrumentals are live recordings of Einhorn playing one 
of the instruments from his repertoire. He said that he 
continues to learn whatever instrument he can get his 
hands on.
As they work together, each puts layer upon layer into 
a piece, one at a time. They use what they call a model 
of regression, switching off working on a song until they 
reach a conversion point where theyre happy with what 
they have produced. Some tunes seem to come quickly 
and naturally, while others can take as long as several 
months to ? nalize.
The addition of H&T, a local hip-hop group that includes 
Roberts, Anthony Fulton, Bilil Abbey, and Mike Combes, 
adds a distinctive and essential element to their music. 
For Einhorn and Kriegel, it was a completely different but
welcoming world. We hadnt been exposed to people of 
their talent or level before, they explained, nor had they 
ever worked with rappers before. When writing verses 
to use on a track, the two groups collaborated to ? gure 
out its meaning. One of the most prominently featured 
members of H&T is Fulton, also known as Alumni, who 
was essential in writing several of the tracks.
The Rhythm Thief recorded its album at 5234 Forbes 
Avenue. The house has some de? nite spirit  its 
perfect for creation, Einhorn said. Kriegel agreed 
that theres a de? nite ambience to the house, and 
that the two of them are always in a state of creation. 
The accessibility of their present (admittedly limited) 
equipment allowed them to take the time to experiment 
and record when they were struck with inspiration.
Kriegel and Einhorn are considering continuing to work 
with H&T to create a complete album, depending on the 
success of the E.P. The group can be found on Facebook 
and Soundcloud, and a free download of 5234 Forbes 
Avenue will be available Feb. 10.
Samantha Ward | Junior Staffwriter
Courtesy of HDJ Photography
Seniors Terence Einhorn (left) and Adam Kriegel (right) 
work on their forthcoming E.P.
Students form rap group with local artists
The Rhythm Thief explains the process of recording their ? rst E.P., 5234 Forbes Avenue

---------------------------------------------------

music
pillbox 01.23.125
Paperhouse
On female DJs
In January of 1971, art historian Linda Nochlin asked the 
world, Why have there been no great women artists? 
Her question leads to an inquiry into understanding the 
foundations on which art is created. Nochlin put forth the 
idea that women have been institutionally blocked from 
achieving artistic excellence, or success, regardless of their 
skill or intelligence.
You may be wondering, what exactly does this have to 
do with music, let alone this schools radio station? You 
see, despite three waves of feminism and much social 
progress, there are still no great women DJs.
A look at DJ Mags top 100 DJs of 2011 contains exactly 
zero women. The more adventurous and experimental 
Resident Advisor lists the names of only eight women. Is 
Nochlins argument also true in the electronic music world?
Heteronormative notions of sexuality dominate the 
electronic music scene. Women who are interested in 
making their names as DJs are seldom taken seriously and 
are thought of as cute or as having some sort of ulterior 
motive; yet, even those who do take the time and energy 
to learn the craft are expected to cater to the crowds 
expectations of the sexy female DJ by donning high 
heels and playing erotic tunes.
It seems unfair that female electronic musicians are 
being pigeonholed into such meretricious classi? cations. 
Fortunately, some female DJs are pushing the envelope 
and working to rede? ne DJ culture.
Ellen Allien has run BPitch Control, one of the most 
in? uential electronic music labels, for over a decade. 
Magda ? ercely parades her stripped-down metallic horror 
techno. Nina Kravitz uses her voice as a layering tool to 
tear down conventions of normative sexual behavior. I only 
hope that more women follow these artists examples and 
explore the vastly uncharted area of the female DJ.
Alex Price | Special to The Tartan
top 10 on WRCT 88.3 FM
most played albums of the last week
The Beach Boys  The SMiLE Sessions
Yuck  s/t (Deluxe Edition)
Bonnie Prince Billy  Wolfroy Goes to Town
Big Troubles  Romantic Comedy
Dum Dum Girls  Only In Dreams
Girl in a Coma  Exits & All the Rest
11 Acorn Lane  Swing Thing
DJ Cosm  Time and Space
Jonathan Coulton  Arti? cial Heart
Frank Sinatra  Best Of The Best
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
Tycho creates ethereal atmosphere
Ennui, Beacon, and Tycho perform at the Shadow Lounge
Ennui is a word that means an endless boredom, 
a state that sets in as you begin to believe you will 
never be interested in anything ever again. It is also 
a local band, Thursdays ? rst opener, which played 
a short set while the Shadow Lounge ? lled with 
people escaping the blowing snow of Pittsburgh 
winter. Ennui was actually quite good, and people 
didnt seem bored to tears. Rather, the crowd largely 
ignored the ? rst opener as those in attendance 
deposited their coats in the Blue Room and ordered 
drinks from the bar.
Stage rearranged, Beacon began. The audience 
didnt visibly react, but people were listening: The 
music was pretty loud and it was a small space. 
Beacons set was a non-event. The highlight was 
the groups last song, a cover of Katy Perrys Last 
Friday Night, excerpted and stretched to become 
nearly unrecognizable. It was perfect, but I am not 
convinced the audience really got it. The group 
distorted a pop song that most of the people in the 
room likely looked down upon until it was nearly 
unidenti? able.
Tycho took the stage after Beacon, beginning 
immediately as the audience moved past its 
un? appable behavior into loud cheers. They were 
here to see him. Tycho played synths, keyboard, 
laptop, and occasionally guitar. There were no 
vocals. He was accompanied by Zac Brown on bass 
and guitar and Rory OConnor on drums. The show 
was really centered around Tycho and the visuals he 
created, which were projected behind the band.
The projected video presentation brought the show 
together. The visuals were largely abstract, almost 
ephemeral. Sky and seascapes with the occasional 
girl staring into the camera were brought in and 
out of focus, oversaturated with added lens ? ares 
and ? ashes of magenta and yellow. There was also 
a clear fetish for natural particle systems: Flocks of 
birds and the embers of a ? re were overlaid in the 
video. The entire picture was often warped to be 
kaleidoscopic.
The visuals didnt tell a story, but they were part of 
the environment that Tycho was creating. And they 
were his own. Tycho is the musical stage name of 
Scott Hansen, whose other alias is ISO50, a graphic 
designer and visual artist and the creator of the 
stylized visuals that back his musical persona.
With visual artist Scott Hansen and musician Scott 
Hansen together, it was quite a show. The audience 
cheered at the end of nearly every song. The smooth, 
almost ambient, electronic music was performed 
in large part identically to the studio versions, only 
intensi? ed by the live performance. 
The place was a sea of hipsters: There were more 
men than women, wearing a spectrum of dark 
colors, ? annels and beanies, thick scarves, thick 
plastic glasses, and sporting facial scruff. Most of 
the room refused to do more than sway, and a few 
people at the front were dancing like they were at a 
different concert entirely.
Drinks were served, the visual show went on, several 
members of Tychos team ? lmed the event, a few 
people soldiered on with their wild dancing, a girl 
on her cell phone kept nearly knocking over the 
monitor, Tycho played Elegy to close the set, and 
the crowd headed back out into the snow.
Patrick Gage Kelley | Co-Publisher
Scott Hansen (Tycho) performed at the Shadow 
Lounge last Thursday.
Patrick Gage Kelley | Co-Publisher

---------------------------------------------------

6community
pillbox 01.23.12
Head writer of Saturday Night Live and host of SNLs 
Weekend Update Seth Meyers performed standup 
comedy last Friday to an excited audience at the Byham 
Theater. While he is most well known for his humorous 
commentary on politics and news, Meyers routine 
focused more on his personal experiences and on funny 
stories from his life. This different persona of the popular 
comedian made for a surprising and hilarious show.
Most comedians, musicians, and other entertainers often 
open their performances by playing to the audience  
talking about the city and their experiences there over 
the years. Meyers was no exception, going right into 
detailed descriptions of Pittsburgh and the local culture.
However, he wasnt merely indulging the audience with 
humor about the city. He discussed how his father is a 
Pittsburgh native from East Liberty, and how Pittsburgh 
Steelers games were a Sunday ritual growing up. He 
wasnt just name-dropping places in the city; rather, 
Meyers had actual experiences here, which was a great 
personal touch to the show.
It would be impossible for Meyers not to discuss 
the Republican presidential candidates, given its 
prominence in the news and his position on Weekend 
Update. Never overtly political, he described Rick Perry 
as George Bush 0.5 and compared Ron Paul to the old 
guy in horror movies who warns the kids that the house 
is haunted.
Meyers better material revolved around his personal 
observations, such as the varying levels of intoxication in 
Las Vegas and how tough bar patrons dont appreciate 
sarcasm.
While the show had the audience consistently laughing, 
there were a few sections that seemed rather lackluster. 
In one portion of his show, Meyers presented rejected 
Weekend Update news briefs that were too risqu for 
television. The punch lines often dealt with old topics, 
and thus felt stale. Not only did they lack the ? avor that 
jokes dealing with current issues have, but they also 
lacked originality, staying a? oat only through the crutch 
of crude humor. While not detrimental to the show, it 
was de? nitely one of the least enjoyable points.
Despite this, Meyers had the audience captivated. One 
of the funniest parts of the show was when he retold 
stories from his experience as the headliner for the 2011 
White House Correspondents Dinner. He recounted the 
event itself, but also discussed what happened before 
and after the show, such as his awkward handshake 
with President Barack Obama.
He continued with his story, explaining that his 
expectations of being featured as the hilarious headliner 
of the dinner were dashed when, the following day, 
Taliban leader Osama bin Laden was killed. His 
admission that he was the only person in America who 
was upset that they had killed bin Laden had many in 
the audience nearly in tears.
Away from his news desk at Weekend Update, Meyers 
still delivered a performance that was entertaining 
and comedic. His connection with the audience was 
undeniable. The show dipped at times when he revisited 
old SNL material, but Meyers ability to entertain with 
unique content made for a hilarious and personal show.
Josh Smith | Forum Editor
SNLs Seth Meyers pulls no punch lines
Comedian puts on entertaining and personal show, strays from characteristic political jokes
Courtesy of Anya Garrett via Flickr
Seth Meyers performed a standup act full of personal
stories last Friday at the Byham Theater.

---------------------------------------------------

community
pillbox 01.23.127
What do old clawfoot bathtubs, trendy fedora hats, and 
a potato gun have in common? They can all be found 
at Wild Stuff, a pop-up vintage store that opened Jan. 
14. Nestled away in Lawrenceville, Wild Stuff makes for 
a fun Saturday afternoon trip to ? nd treasures big and 
small.
Wild Stuff is the result of three Lawrenceville stores  
Wildcard, Botero Development, and Zombo Gallery  
joining together to ? ll an unused storefront. The store is 
only open on Saturdays and will run while the storefront 
is available  so it will only be around until the end of 
March. It is located at 4300 Butler St., just across the 
street from Wildcard, which offers trinkets, cards, craft 
supplies, and more.
Brian Mendelssohn of Botero Development said that 
the pieces of furniture on sale are from projects that 
we buy  houses and buildings. This results in some 
great ? nds, such as washing machines from the 1920s 
to 1950s, which are currently selling for as low as a dollar 
each. According to Mendelssohn, customers often ? nd 
creative uses for these machines, such as turning them 
into coolers or kegs.
Music and art are also prominently featured in the 
storefront, including pieces from Zombo Gallery, which 
closed down more than a year ago. Michael Zombo 
Devine, a well-known DJ who is currently a community 
DJ at WRCT, sells some of his radio shows in the form of 
stacks of CDs. Additionally, plenty of albums are on sale 
for a dollar apiece, ranging from The Beatles to Nine Inch 
Nails.
Eccentric items are in abundance at the pop-up sale. 
Baseball fans can pick up ex-Pirates player Jason Bay 
in bobblehead form for a dollar. Those looking for fun 
T-shirts  like one with a print of a Chihuahua sporting 
sunglasses  can ? nd those too. Fridges, an old 
treadmill, guitars, and vintage roller skates are just a few 
more examples of the treasures one can ? nd at the sale.
More practical items are available, too; there are plenty 
of winter coats on sale. For the college student on a 
budget, a $10 coat that you wouldnt mind getting 
ruined or lost at a party isnt a bad idea. Framed 
record label covers, handmade lanterns, and twinkling 
Christmas lights would all make any living space livelier.
Most of the items are displayed in some semblance 
of order on tables, but in some areas, sifting through 
trinkets is required for ? nding quirky treasures; this is 
all part of the fun of going to an unconventional vintage 
store.
As for why the sale is dubbed pop-up?
It pops up, grabs you by the ankles, [and] shakes out all 
the loose change, Zombo joked.
Gabriela Pascuzzi | Junior Staffwriter
Pop-up vintage sale boasts quirky ? nds
Wild Stuff brings neighborhood together, sells items ranging from furniture to roller skates
Jesse Kummer | Staffwriter
Angels in the Out? eld tells the story of 
the down-on-their-luck California Angels 
baseball team, which gets a little help 
from above after a kid who wants to be 
closer to his father prays for the team to 
play better. Next thing you know, angels 
begin helping the players perform 
spectacular feats on the diamond. 
Theres also a recent football version 
of this movie: Its called Tebow in the 
Back? eld: The Story of the Denver 
Broncos 201112 season. Fun Fact: 
the ? lm features appearances from 
several future stars, including Joseph 
Gordon-Levitt, Matthew McConaughey, 
and Adrien Brody.
Angels in the Outfield
Thursday, Jan. 26
8 10 12
The Sandlot
Saturday, Jan. 28
8 10 12
For those of you at all interested in 
sports, this was likely one of the ? rst 
movies you ever saw. The Sandlot is 
a classic tale about a group of young 
boys growing up in 1962 who play 
baseball every day during the summer 
at a local sandlot. Things start to go 
awry when a baseball signed by the 
Colossus of Clout himself is lost to 
the beast and the boys resolve to get 
it back. The movie features so many 
memorable quotes and scenes  they 
couldnt possibly all be listed here. 
Darth Vader is in this movie though, and 
that alone should be reason enough to 
see it.
Moneyball
Friday, Jan. 27
7:30 10 12:30
You might think that a movie about 
a baseball teams general manager 
wouldnt be very entertaining, but youd 
be wrong. Brad Pitt is at his ? nest as 
Billy Beane, the man behind the curtain 
for the Oakland Athletics. Beanes 
trailblazing tenure has revolutionized 
the way Major League Baseball 
teams, analysts, and scouts look at 
statistics; he also introduced the word 
sabermetrics into every baseball fans 
vocabulary. Since the original book was 
published, the Oakland Athletics have 
made one trip to the playoffs and have 
three winning records in eight seasons. 
Way to let everyone in on your secret 
formula for success, Beane.
Field of Dreams
Sunday, Jan. 29
8 10 12
If you show it, they will come. That 
must have been what the Activities 
Board was thinking when it made 
Field of Dreams the Sunday feature 
? lm. This 1989 fantasy-drama ? lm is 
one of the all-time classic pieces of 
American cinema. Kevin Costner stars 
as Ray Kinsella, a farmer who hears a 
disembodied voice telling him to build 
a baseball diamond in his corn? eld. A 
fantastic and well-told tale involving a 
reclusive author and the Chicago Black 
Sox scandal unfolds over the next 90 
minutes of this heartwarming story. A 
must-see for every movie buff. Fun Fact:
The real-life Field was sold for over $5 
million in 2011.
dollarmovie
McConomy Auditorium, University Center
Wild Stuff is open every Saturday through the end
of March from 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. 
Gabriela Pascuzzi | Staff

---------------------------------------------------

feature
pillbox 01.23.1298feature
pillbox 01.23.12
Pittsburgh Community
As you may have seen on the internet or in this weeks 
Forum section, Pittsburgh is now considered a hip 
city (at least according to one media outlet). Despite 
students and other young peoples moaning and 
groaning about the lack of things to do or places to go, 
theres actually a lot going on in the Steel City. This is 
especially true for the local music scene  a scene that 
seems to be growing every day.
From house and techno to classical and opera, every 
sector of the music world has a presence here. The 
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra (PSO) is world 
renowned and brings incredible soloists to the city each 
season. The Smiling Moose and 222 Ormsby consistently 
bring small metal and punk shows to the area, and 
venues like brillobox and Mr. Smalls Theatre bring 
bigger indie-rock shows. No matter what neighborhood 
you go to  from Lawrenceville to the South Side 
to Downtown  or what type of music you listen to, 
Pittsburghs music scene is quickly expanding to ? ll all of 
your live music desires.
A small but vibrant community surrounds Pittsburghs 
burgeoning electronic, house, and techno scene. With 
the start of the VIA Music and New Media Festival in 
2010, Pittsburgh put itself on the map as a city with 
a real audience for these types of music. Since then, 
other smaller events have been popping up all over the 
city, including, most recently, a monthly house DJ event 
hosted by Humanaut called Out of Order.
Juan Lafontaine, a WRCT community DJ and one of 
the founders of SwitchboardPGH, a website that tracks 
upcoming music and art events in the area, said, 
Between VIA, Humanaut, random people here and 
there, and just in general how DJs, techno, and house are 
all becoming a little more mainstream and acceptable on 
a regular basis ... its allowing more DJs to be invited to 
Pittsburgh for concerts and shows.
He continued, Pittsburgh is starting to get that name 
for itself  in the sense that DJ, house, and techno 
live in Pittsburgh, as well. And once people realize that 
Pittsburgh has a scene for that kind of music, then more 
and more things are bound to happen.
VIA isnt the only event bringing DJs to Pittsburgh. 
Venues like the Shadow Lounge in East Liberty, 
Belvederes in Lawrenceville, and the recently opened 
Static in the Strip District are all hosting DJ events on a 
regular basis.
Pittsburgh may be more of a city for DJs than bands, but 
that doesnt mean that good bands dont come here. 
Its true that Pittsburgh isnt an indie-rock lovers ideal 
city: Too far from the coast to be a part of the main East 
Coast indie circuit and not quite large enough to be a 
destination city for artists, Pittsburgh is often overlooked. 
Its important to give credit where credit is due, 
however. Venues like Mr. Smalls, Stage AE, brillobox, 
and Altar Bar do bring some quality acts to the city, and 
college students take advantage of the limited offerings.
As major consumers of music and frequent concertgoers, 
the large student population in Pittsburgh helps fuel the 
indie-rock music scene. Amy Cooper, marketing director 
at Stage AE, has seen ? rsthand the way the indie music 
scene has grown over recent years. Its just something 
thats sort of caught on and its stuck. There have been a 
lot of artists that have come out and have done the same 
genre of music, and people just seem to really connect 
with it, she said. [The music scene has] even grown 
from where it was a year ago, so I think its going to 
continue to be really big.
If you havent explored Pittsburghs music scene in the 
past and are interested in it, this spring is the perfect 
time to get out there. Within the next three months, 
Blind Pilot, Big Gigantic, Dr. Dog, and The Kooks are 
all coming to Mr. Smalls in Millvale; Grimes and Cloud 
Nothings are coming to brillobox in Lawrenceville; and 
countless other bands are playing at Club Zoo, Club 
Cafe, and Altar Bar, among other venues.
For classical music fans, the PSO is a major bene? t of 
living in Pittsburgh. Founded in 1895, the top-notch 
orchestra puts on phenomenal performances nearly 
every weekend, often with impressive guest conductors, 
soloists, and special festivals. The PSO has played a 
signi? cant role in developing Pittsburghs cultural scene.
Pittsburghs music scene: better than you think
Growing electronic scene brings more DJs, and campus organizations host frequent concerts 
Xiu Xiu performs at Altar Bar, a popular venue for indie 
and alternative concerts, in September 2011.
Allison Cosby | Pillbox Editor
by Allison Cosby | Pillbox Editor[]
In the fall, the orchestra brought some big names to 
Pittsburgh, including violinist Anne-Sophie Mutter and 
cellist Yo-Yo Ma. This spring, you can look forward to 
more outstanding guest performances and, as always, 
hearing all of the classics from the PSO: Brahms, 
Mozart, Mendelssohn, Haydn, Wagner, and more. All 
PSO performances are held at Heinz Hall in downtown 
Pittsburgh, and you can ? nd more information about 
student tickets on the PSOs website.
Pittsburgh is also home to an impressive opera company. 
This spring the Pittsburgh Opera is presenting Engelbert 
Humperdincks Hansel & Gretel, Giacomo Puccinis 
Tosca, and Wolfgang Mozarts The Abduction from the 
Seraglio.
Carnegie Mellon Campus
If youre sitting there thinking, All of these places are 
at least a bus ride from campus and its way too cold 
outside for that, no need to worry. Theres a lot going 
on right here on campus. The Activities Board (AB) has 
four committees committed to bringing a wide range 
of music to Carnegie Mellon, both in genre and concert 
size. Each of the AB committees brings live shows to 
campus every semester, and WRCT, the campus radio 
station, hosts a spring dance party every year that 
features student DJs.
In the past, the AB committees have brought The Black 
Keys, Tokyo Police Club, Guster, The Books, and many 
others to campus. I think we do a pretty good job of 
putting shows on across the campus and bringing 
diverse entertainment to campus, said Adam Kriegel, 
a senior electrical and computer engineering major 
and president of AB. We have at least two shows per 
month between the Underground, Skibo, Coffeehouse, 
and Concerts, and I think thats pretty good when you 
consider the campus size.
Kriegel noted that indie acts, in particular, ? nd Carnegie 
Mellons campus a welcome place to play. I think 
because they know Carnegie Mellon as kind of a nerdy 
school, and I think theres also a hipster thing tied to the 
university, so people think its going to be the hip, cool 
place to play, Kriegel said. So bands are always excited 
and usually not disappointed.
AB Skibo works to bring local artists to campus. You 
can look forward to hearing Jeremy Sessa, Sleep 
Experiments, Tim Ruff, and Jeremy Colbert all in the 
next few months. AB Underground also hosts smaller 
artists, including Chris Frasco, who will be playing this 
week. Celine Berger, a sophomore in the Dietrich College 
of Humanities and Social Sciences and the co-chair of 
AB Underground, said, For the Underground, we try 
to bring in more acoustic shows because of the sound 
constraints, and the actual venue cant really handle 
bigger acts.
Small acts are happy to come play, however. Berger 
noted, A lot of people that we book contact us ? rst.
Additionally, the School of Music frequently hosts both 
student and guest performances in Kresge Theatre, in 
the College of Fine Arts building. The spring semester 
is always full of senior recitals, so keep an eye out for 
promotional posters around campus.
With so much going on both on campus and in the 
community, its easy to see why Pittsburgh is considered 
a hip city. The DJ, house, and techno scene is blowing 
up, indie artists are starting to see Pittsburgh as a city 
worth playing, and theres a consistent demand here for 
quality classical music. So if youre looking for a good 
way to spend an evening, venture out and see whos 
playing. You can go downtown, to Lawrenceville, or even 
stay right here on campus  wherever you go, youre 
sure to ? nd what youre looking for.
Top: Sutekh, a DJ from the San Francisco Bay area, plays at VIA in October 2011.
Bottom: Hosted by AB Concerts, The Books perform in Rangos Ballroom in August 2010. 
Allison Cosby | Pillbox Editor
Patrick Gage Kelley | Co-Publisher

---------------------------------------------------

10community
pillbox 01.23.12
The My Little Pony series has taken on a surprising 
fan base, now appealing to fans of all ages, including 
college students. These older fans of the show, 
or bronies as they are commonly known, are 
everywhere and theyre on the verge of starting their 
own club here at Carnegie Mellon.
The My Little Pony toy line has been an important 
property for Hasbro since the early 80s. Even 
those who did not purchase the plastic horses 
or the overpriced play sets can likely recall the 
extensive advertisements and the infectious jingle. 
A cornerstone of that marketing campaign was the 
cartoon series. The latest iteration of toys was given 
an accompanying television series in 2010 called My 
Little Pony: Friendship is Magic, which was helmed 
by Lauren Faust. Faust told Wired that she created 
the show to have appeal far beyond the targeted 
audience Hasbro called her in for.
Edward Garbade, a ? rst-year computer science 
major and the main organizer of brony events 
on campus, announced their unof? cial club last 
Saturday. This news was met by cheers from fellow 
bronies, who had just ? nished watching a Friendship 
is Magic episode that ended with the moral that 
people should be proud of their accomplishments, 
even if they didnt do as well as theyd hoped.
The bronies in the audience genuinely care about 
the show  one latecomer screamed and cursed 
in surprise at a minor character speaking for the 
? rst time. Its just a really, really, really good show, 
Garbade said about the groups general enthusiasm 
towards Friendship is Magic. As weird as it seems, 
watching a show about pastel-colored horses is very 
entertaining.
The show has become a respectable series, 
unlike earlier versions of the show that were often 
considered low-quality, long-form commercials. 
They used to be just huge marketing schemes, 
said Michael McGinnis, a junior statistics major.
Jit Nandi, a sophomore decision science and 
computer science double major, explained that 
he likes the show because it reminds him of 
the cartoons from his youth, which were often 
straightforward comedy that managed to convey 
important life messages. When asked if he ever 
felt embarrassed about his passion and attending 
Friendship is Magic viewings, Nandi said, I feel like 
a badass for coming here.
Fellow students react to the bronies in a relatively 
neutral manner. I think bronies, as Ive heard them 
called, are trying to stay nostalgic by clinging on to 
new things that remind them of old TV shows like 
Powerpuff Girls, said Charlie Grealish, a ? rst-year 
electrical and computer engineering major.
While Faust, largely credited for the success of 
My Little Pony, has left the show, the fans remain 
optimistic. After the meeting had ended and some 
jokes about the episode were shared, the bronies 
left to make snow ponies and consider plans to 
continue making chalk drawings of their favorite 
Equestrian characters.
Justin McGown | Staffwriter
Bronies form unof? cial club
Unlikely fans gather around the My Little Pony series
Shannon Gallagher | Staff
Adelaide Cole | Art Editor
Catherine Spence | Staffwriter
100
Jan. 4, 1912
Did you know?
An editorial mocks a University of 
Chicago professors theories about 
what could happen on Mars moon 
Phobus. One man could play an entire 
game of baseball on his own because 
of Mars gravitational effects: A batter 
could hit a ball and have time to don a 
mitt and catch the ball before it falls to 
the ground.
50
Jan. 10, 1962
Students eligible to overload for the 
spring semester are encouraged to 
register for a new six-unit course being 
offered at Carnegie Tech. The course, 
titled Introduction to Engineering, 
focuses on the connection between 
science and engineering. The course is 
designed around broad themes such 
as experiment design.
25
Jan. 13, 1987
Current Governor Dick Thornburgh 
issues an order that calls for the sale 
of Pennsylvanias liquor industry from 
the state-owned system to the private 
sector. Students at Carnegie Mellon 
agree that allowing the liquor industry 
to be owned by private businesses will 
not decrease the states tax revenue. 
10
Jan. 21, 2002
A poll conducted by the Food 
Committee of the Student Dormitory 
Council reveals that over 73 percent 
of participants on the meal plan are 
dissatisfied with their plans, and 88 
percent of the upperclassmen polled 
were not on any plan. In response, 
dining considers trying Schatz out as a 
buffet style, all-you-can-eat restaurant 
to appease students.
5
Jan. 22, 2007
The 15th largest public transportation 
network in the country, the Port 
Authority of Allegheny County, 
proposes budget cuts that will mean 
big changes for how Carnegie Mellon 
students navigate the city. One of the 
proposed routes to be removed is 
the 28X, the bus that brings Carnegie 
Mellon students to and from the 
Pittsburgh International Airport.
1
Jan. 17, 2011
Smallman Street Deli is a local 
restaurant, down the street from 
Pamelas in Squirrel Hill, known for 
its breakfast specials. Smallmans is 
suggested over Pamelas for breakfast 
because there is rarely a wait to get 
a table and students receive a 10 
percent discount on any menu items.Courtesy of CMU Bronies
Carnegie Mellon bronies draw My Little Ponies in 
chalk around campus.

---------------------------------------------------

comics
pillbox 01.23.1211
sohmer@leasticoulddo.com
  Online at www.licd.com and www.lfgcomics.com
doghousediaries@gmail.comThe Day My Papers Due by Doghouse Diaries

---------------------------------------------------

12comics
pillbox 01.23.12
Apartment 4H by Joe Medwid and Dave Rhodenbaughjmedwid@andrew
Online at www.4hcomic.com 
kathrynmoira@gmail.com
Hark, a Vagrant by Kate Beaton

---------------------------------------------------

puzzles
pillbox 01.23.1213
Solutions from Dec. 5, 2011
CrosswordVery Hard DifficultyHard Difficulty
Kakuro Puzzle: Easy Difficulty Sudoku Puzzle: Medium Difficulty
Sudoku courtesy of www.opensky.ca/~jdhildeb/software/
sudokugen/Kakuro courtesy of www.krazydad.com/kakuro
Fill all empty squares using numbers 1 to 9 so the sum of 
each row equals the clue on its left, and the sum of each 
column equals the clue on its top. No number may be used 
in the same row or column more than once.

---------------------------------------------------

14horoscopes
pillbox 01.23.12
1. Temporary paper currency
2. Beethoven dedicatee
3. Domingo, for one
4. Gluttonous
5. Pertaining to a meal
6. Fleur-de-___
7. Aardvarks prey
8. Grenobles river
9. Mock
10. Fiasco
11. Alike in every way
12. Lustrous fur
13. Bristle
18. Debatable
22. Jargon
24. Reprimand
27. Mix dough
29. Lose traction
30. When said three times, a 1970 war 
movie
31. Stretch wide
32. Biblical birthright seller
33. Continent SE of Asia
35. Everglades bird
38. Shed _____
39. Merchant
42. Like a single-celled organism
44. Clad
46. Hulled cracked grain
48. 160 square rods
50. Cafe additive
52. Author Calvino
53. Rings of a chain
54. First name in cosmetics
55. Close with force
56. Racer Yarborough
57. Flat-bottomed boat
61. Holiday start
1. Clockmaker Thomas
5. Tartan
10. Dulls
14. 1963 role for Liz
15. Wash lightly
16. Actress McClurg
17. Boxing referees other job?
19. Crooked
20. Equal-angled shape
21. Ceylon, now
23. Time spans
25. Decree
26. Slender piece of wood
28. Sign up
31. Casual assent
34. Bang-up
36. Nocturnal tropical lizard
37. Sun Devils sch.
38. Rapid in tempo
40. Atmosphere
41. Attended
43. Be bold
44. Betsys Wedding star
45. Spice
47. Coup _____
49. Brings up
51. Tangible
55. Indecent
58. Eye inflammation
59. Composer Schifrin
60. Catalyst
62. Et ____
63. Valuable collection
64. Actress Sommer
65. Alcoholic drink of fermented 
honey
66. Effluent system
67. Medicinal amount
ACROSSDOWN
Horoscopes
aries
march 21april 19
You are a new person this year, or at least thats who youre 
trying to be. Changing for the better is a good thing, but 
it can be difficult at times. Stay on course and you will be 
rewarded.
taurus
april 20may 20
You didnt even try to have a meaningful Martin Luther King 
Jr. Day, so from now on, you dont get to celebrate any of 
the really good holidays. Happy National Handwriting Day!
gemini
may 21june 21
If you decide to wear all white in the snow, dont get upset 
if your friends stare in your direction and dont acknowledge 
your presence. Perhaps you could wear a colorful hat or at 
least get some bronzer.
cancer
june 22july 22
Youre not the most outgoing person at times, and thats 
okay, but you are currently in a class where you wont do 
well if you dont speak up. Dont let yourself get lost in the 
crowd.
leo
july 23aug. 22 
You are completely justified in spoiling the newest episodes 
of a show that you and your friend both watch. If he or she 
didnt catch up over the break its their fault, not yours.
virgo
aug. 23sept. 22
Take some time this week to spruce up your resume. 
Remember, being able to get to the Waterfront via public 
transportation means that you are not only patient, but also 
a creative problem solver.
libra
sept. 23oct. 22
If youre in Hunt Library after 2:30 a.m., there is no need to 
go the the quiet floor. If a half-empty library in the middle of 
winter isnt quiet enough for you, you might want to look 
into renting a room at the local mortuary.
scorpio
oct. 23nov. 21
Hey, hey, stop thinking that about your professor. Everyone 
is entitled to a quirk or two ... or three. Okay, better yet, just 
try to be as understanding as possible.
sagittarius
nov. 22dec. 21
Its time to start building up your reputation around campus 
so that people will know and remember your name. Start 
small and keep at it. Youre on your way if you dont have to 
place an order at The Exchange.
capricorn
dec. 22jan. 19
You dont take horoscopes seriously and anyone can 
appreciate that. You try to think for yourself and live life as 
it happens, but sometimes the silly things in life should not 
be ignored.
aquarius
jan. 20feb. 18
Yes, a lot of people did just hear that awkward thing that 
you said to your friend when you thought no one was 
listening. And yes, it will be online within the hour.
pisces
feb. 19march 20
What are you doing? I mean really. Why are you doing that?  
What is the point?
Nicole Hamilton | Comics Editor
Crossword courtesy of BestCrosswords.com

---------------------------------------------------

calendar
pillbox 01.23.1215
MONDAY1.23.12
The Algorithmic Art of Scott Draves. Gates Hillman 
Complex 6115. 4 p.m.
Scott Draves will discuss his Electric Sheep Project, 
a massive internet-wide art collaboration by 450,000 
computers and their owners. The project uses unique, 
algorithmically-generated open-source genetic codes to 
create art that changes over time.
TUESDAY1.24.12
Names Divine with Ursa Major, Matt & Mark, and 
Trogpite. Gar? eld Artworks, 4931 Penn Ave. 8 p.m.
This 11-member collective will be releasing its debut 
album on May 13. The album has been described as 
primal and almost painful, but always ... satisfying by 
The Deli.
WEDNESDAY1.25.12
Jaymay with The Wreckids and Greg Dutton. Club 
Cafe, 5658 South 12th St. 7 p.m.
New York singer-songwriter Jaymay made her ? rst 
appearance at the open mic nights of the East Villages 
Sidewalk Cafe. Her music is a fusion of folk, swing jazz, 
orchestral pop, and acoustic country.
THURSDAY1.26.12
Opera: Lenfant et les sortileges. Philip Chosky 
Theater, Purnell Center for the Arts. 8 p.m. through Jan. 
28, 2 p.m. on Jan. 29.
The School of Music presents an opera by Maurice 
Ravel. This production tells the story of a young boy who, 
after being scolded by his mother, throws a tantrum and 
destroys his room. The room then comes to life; furniture, 
decorations, and even his homework become animated 
and begin talking to him.
FRIDAY1.27.12
Gallery Crawl. Cultural District. 5:30 p.m.
The Gallery Crawl is a free quarterly showcase of art 
and entertainment at various galleries in the heart of the 
Cultural District. All events are free and open to the public. 
Pittsburghs downtown Cultural District is a 14-squareblock area bordered by the Allegheny River on the north, 
10th Street on the east, Stanwix Street on the west, and 
Liberty Avenue on the south.
SATURDAY1.28.12
Public Dialogue. The Andy Warhol Museum. 2 p.m.
Art educator and Carnegie Mellon alum Luke Neibler 
(H&SS 11) will give a lecture on Jeffrey Vallances latest 
Word of God installation. Neibler will discuss sexuality 
and physical presence in traditional Western Catholicism 
in relation to Vallances sculptures. His discussion will 
focus on the human body and explore the use of religious 
imagery to elevate popular culture to the level of the 
sacred.
ONGOING
Intimate Science. Miller Gallery. Through March 4.
The exhibition showcases interdisciplinary artists who 
incorporate science and technology into their creative 
processes, as well as scientists who use their technology 
and resources to create art.
Compiled by Christa Hester | Co-Publisher
Want your event here?
Email calendar@thetartan.org.
Classifieds
SSR TRADE is offering a position of? ce 
manager and payment clerk where you 
can earn extra income at your own ? exible 
schedule plus bene? ts that takes only little of 
your time. Requirements - * 1-2 hours access 
to the internet weekly. * Must be Ef? cient and 
Dedicated. gmacssrtrade@gmail.com. This 
great opportunity is limited.

---------------------------------------------------

16gallery
pillbox 01.23.12
Jonathan Carreon | Photo Editor
In celebration of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day, musical theatre majors performed soulful, patriotic 
classics and read excerpts of various King speeches last Monday before President Jared Cohons State 
of Diversity Address. Sophomore musical theatre major Daniel Bellomy, pictured above, was one of the 
soloists featured in the performance.
diversity.
