SPORTSPILLBOX
Carnegie Mellons student newspaper since 1906
VIA music festival returns to Pittsburgh  B9Tartan football beats Westminster  A11Feinberg studies heart muscle interactions  A5
SCITECH
thetartan.org
@thetartan
October 6, 2014
Volume 109, Issue 7
Norris speaks about race in America
Steven Sun/Junior Photographer
Michele Norris, host of NPRs All Things Considered, spoke on Wednesday about Eavesdropping on Americas Conversation on Race. Left: Norris dances across the stage to express how different races of people can have unique characteristics to their step. Right: Norris waits mockingly in 
silence in response to the audiences laughter after telling a joke.
CHELSEA DICKSON
Junior Staffwriter
Americas conversation on 
race has only just begun, said 
NPR correspondent Michele 
Norris during a talk on racial 
diversity last Wednesday at 
the Carnegie Music Hall. The 
lecture, titled Eavesdropping on Americas Conversation On Race, proved more 
than an exercise in listening, 
and rather an invitation to 
an open dialogue on race in 
America. Hosted by the Carnegie Museum of Natural History, the event was held in 
tandem with the museums 
new exhibit Race: Are We So 
Different?
Michele Norris began hosting NPRs All Things Considered after working for news 
outlets such as The Washington Post, the Chicago Tribune, 
and the Los Angeles Times, 
eventually winning both an 
Emmy and Peabody Award for 
her coverage of the Sept. 11 
terror attacks in conjunction 
with ABC News.
In 2006, Norris was inspired by the term post-racial 
to explore the real conversations Americans were having 
about race. Today, Norris directs her social experiment, 
The Race Card Project. 
People from America and 
elsewhere may send in their 
six-word stories about their 
experiences with race to the 
Project. More often than 
not, Norris ?nds people are 
eager to share many of their 
anecdotes.
At her lecture on Wednesday, Norris shared some of the 
accounts shes heard while 
directing The Race Card 
Project. 
Once, a woman revealed 
she had saved an invitation to 
a lynching that was sent to her 
father. In a more intimate moment, Norris recalled learning 
that her own father had been 
shot in Birmingham, Alabama 
after serving in WWII. While 
still in uniform, her father 
attempted to enter a center 
where he was taking a class 
on the Constitution but was 
stopped by a police of?cer. A 
scuf?e ensued, and the of?cer 
attempted to shoot her father. 
Luckily, he escaped with only 
a ?esh wound.
Norris father, however, 
never told her about this experience. Instead, she said, 
he decided to pass on ambition to his children rather 
than a history of violence and 
oppression.
For Norris, these small moments of racial tension add up 
to create a persons wealth. 
Norris proposed a new de?nition of wealth in relation to 
race. Americas wealth of 
diversity comes from these 
small ways we experience 
race, Norris said.
She said that although 
sometimes peoples words 
might sound harsh or offputting, their curiosity to 
talk about race and diversity 
should be encouraged. Norris 
ended the lecture by reading 
some of the six-word Race 
Card stories she found funny 
See DIVERSITY, A3
Donut Dash raises money for Live Like Lou
Kevin Zheng/Junior Photographer
Donut Dash began with enthusiasm on Sunday morning as contestants ran a mile, ate some donuts, and ran another mile. 
LAURA SCHERB
Operations Manager
Over 500 students, faculty, 
and community members 
participated in the sixth annual Donut Dash on Sunday, a 
yearly event held by the brothers of Sigma Alpha Epsilon 
(SAE).
Junior cognitive science 
major June Hammer Walitzer 
took ?rst place in the womens 
singles division, and undeclared Mellon College of Science ?rst-year Joey Pickens 
took ?rst in the mens singles 
division and overall with a 
time of 12:36.
For the past ?ve years, the 
Donut Dash looked much like 
those held by other organizations around the country: run, 
eat some donuts, run more, 
and try not to puke. But this 
years Dash was transformed, 
thanks to a makeover from 
senior cognitive science and 
human-computer interaction 
double major Jeff Mich.
Whenever anyone asks 
me what the difference is between this years Dash and 
last years, I cut them off, 
Mich said. Were doing everything differently. Weve 
rebuilt the event from the 
foundation.
To make that dream a reality, Mich worked with coordinator of Greek leadership and 
SAE chapter adviser Emily 
Cunningham.
Last year, I was really 
taken aback by the quirkiness 
of the chapter and the event, 
Cunningham said. Its weird, 
its so weird, but its so them. 
I love seeing their passion and 
how they can make this goofy 
thing so great, so I wanted to 
help make it a reality.
Though in the past the 
event raised money for the 
Childrens Hospital, a charity with which Mich said the 
fraternity had a great relationship, this year, the money 
raised at the event is going to 
Live Like Lou, a Pittsburghbased organization that is 
focused not only on funding 
research to ?nd a cure for 
Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis 
(ALS) or Lou Gehrigs disease, 
but on helping patients and 
their families by providing 
support and care to create a 
community for those affected 
by the disease.
See DONUTS, A3
Andy Awards honor outstanding staff
CHRIS GALVIN
Staffwriter
Today we honor Carnegie 
Mellons best-kept secret: our 
incredible staff. Simply the 
?nest, most hardest working, 
and most dedicated staff in 
the world, said Cohon University Center Administrator 
Stanley Krowitz at the 20th 
annual Andy Awards.
The Andy Awards, held on 
Sept. 30, honor faculty and 
staff from all over campus 
for outstanding performance 
and contributions to the campus community.
The ceremony began with 
a speech from President Subra Suresh that emphasized 
the importance of the behindthe-scenes work that the universitys staff performs.
[The staff members] are 
the unsung heroes of the enterprise, Suresh said. Thats 
why I personally believe that 
something like the Andy 
Awards are so critical.
Suresh also stressed the 
value of the university staffs 
creative contributions, no 
matter their size.
What people dont realize 
is that innovations ... happen 
every day. Very small innovations, from a practical sense, 
can be much more impactful, Suresh said. We put a 
man on the moon before we 
put wheels on the suitcase.
The ?rst awards for Years 
of Service were presented by 
Pattye Stragar, staff council 
chair and ?tness operations 
manager in the department 
of athletics.
Win or lose, you represent the best that the staff has 
to offer, Stragar said. Your 
contributions are an example 
for all staff who work day in 
and day out to contribute to 
the campus community.
Sixteen staff members 
were recognized for 30 years 
of service, nine for 35 years, 
and three for 40 years. Chuck 
Gitzen, storeroom manager 
for the physics department, 
was recognized for 45 years 
of service, and Joe Rudman, 
a scienti?c project administrator also in the physics department, was recognized for 
55 years of service.
Next, Everett Tademy, 
assistant vice president for 
diversity and equal opportunity services, presented the 
Andy Award for Outstanding 
Dedication.
These nominees have a 
can-do attitude and consistently do whatever it takes to 
See AWARDS, A3
Hillman donates $5 million to university
BRIAN TRIMBOLI 
News Editor
Last week, the university 
announced that Henry Hillman donated $5 million to 
Carnegie Mellons nascent 
BrainHub initiative.
Hillman, referred to in a 
campus-wide email as a renowned Pittsburgh philanthropist, has donated funds 
to Carnegie Mellon in the past 
to support the construction of 
the Hillman Center for FutureGeneration Technologies.
The Hillman gift will provide new endowment funds 
to help support presidential 
graduate fellowships in areas 
broadly connected to brain 
research, the email said. It 
will also provide seed grants, 
through CMUs ProSEED program, for innovative research 
projects that will connect faculty from disciplines across 
CMU.
The Henry L. Hillman 
Foundation, according to its 
website, is dedicated to improving the quality of life in 
Pittsburgh and southwestern 
Pennsylvania. Hillman inherited much of his money 
from his grandfather, a Pittsburgh steel tycoon and the 
founder of the Pittsburgh 
Coke & Chemical Company, 
according to Business Insider.
Understanding how the 
brain works is among the 
great challenges of the 21st 
century, with results that 
promise to improve human 
health and well-being in 
dramatic ways, said President Subra Suresh in a press 
release. Carnegie Mellon 
can make a unique and distinctive contribution to this 
global effort by bringing 
together our strengths in 
neurobiology, computation, 
data sciences, human learning and behavioral science 
to create urgently needed research frameworks, tools and 
technologies, and by working 
in close concert with the network of BrainHub universities around the world.
Carnegie Mellon launched 
the BrainHub initiative in 
late August; the initiative includes plans to expand Carnegie Mellons brain research 
in several different ways.
As part of the initiative, 
according to the initial press 
release on the subject, the 
university plans to hire 10 or 
more faculty specializing in 
brain research across various departments and ?elds. 
BrainHub will focus on developing better tools to measure 
neuron activity in the brain 
and computational methods 
for analyzing brain activity to 
understand the link between 
activity in the brain and the 
bodys behavior. Hillman is 
one of many sources of funding for BrainHub. According 
to the press release on BrainHub, Carnegie Mellon has 
secured $75 million in initial 
commitments from organizations like the R.K. Mellon 
Foundation; Dietrich Foundation;  Kris Gopalakrishnan, 
co-founder of business consulting company Infosys; and 
others.
The gift will help support 
the training of the next generation of brain researchers 
on a global scale, the university press release says. As 
part of BrainHub, Carnegie 
Mellon scientists will work 
with university partners from 
China, India and the United 
Kingdom, and the Hillman 
gift will be matched with 
other sources of support for 
BrainHub.
BrainHub is meant to pave 
the way for new methods 
of measuring and analyzing 
brain activity, as Carnegie 
Mellon scientists work with 
other top brain researchers.
Some of BrainHubs global 
partners include the University of Warwick, which has 
expertise in the ?eld of digital health; Sun Yat-sen University, whose medical school 
is clinically experienced with 
autism and Alzheimers; 
Oxford University and its 
International Brain Mechanics and Trauma Lab; and the 
Indian Institute of Science, 
which has its own brain research center.

---------------------------------------------------

A2  thetartan.org/news The Tartan  October 6, 2014
Corrections & Clari?cations
If you would like to submit a correction or clari?cation, 
please email The Tartan at news@thetartan.org or 
editor@thetartan.org with your inquiry, as well as the 
date of the issue and the name of the article. We will 
print the correction or clari?cation in the next print 
issue and publish it online.
NEWS IN BRIEF
Plaza outside CUC gets updated look
WEATHER
Vehicle stop
Sept. 28, 2014
A University Police of?cer 
on patrol noticed a blue sedan 
leaving the Greek Quadrangle 
with a student riding on top. 
When the of?cer stopped the 
vehicle, he issued a traf?c citation to both students and 
charged the student on the 
roof with disorderly conduct.
Criminal mischief, 
vandalism 
Sept. 29, 2014
University Police were 
summoned to Margaret Morrison Street in reference to a 
vandalism report. The person 
who reported the incident 
told of?cers that the vandal 
had popped the bicycle tires 
of three students who were 
keeping their bicycles on the 
rack outside of the Margaret 
Morrison storefronts.
iPad theft 
Sept. 29, 2014
University Police were 
summoned to take a theft report after ISS reported that a 
company iPad was unlawfully 
taken from the West Wing of?ce of facility services company ISS between Sept. 1722. 
All ISS employees have access 
to the of?ce. This investigation is ongoing.
Sign theft 
Sept. 29, 2014
A recruiter from Apple reported to University Police 
that an Apple sign, valued at 
$400, was taken from outside 
McConomy Auditorium between 38 p.m. This investigation is ongoing.
Sunglasses theft
Sept. 30, 2014
A Carnegie Mellon student reported that her $150 
sunglasses were stolen from a 
table inside the Donner House 
lounge between 8:309:30 
p.m.
Wallet theft 
Sept. 30, 2014
A Carnegie Mellon student 
reported his wallet taken from 
his dorm room in Morewood 
E-Tower. The victim had left 
his room unlocked from 810 
p.m. This investigation is ongoing.
Suspicious person 
Oct. 1, 2014
University Police responded to the area outside of University Health Services after 
a caller reported a suspicious 
man. According to the caller, 
the man was acting obscenely 
and requested that the police 
speak to him. After police arrived and identi?ed the man, 
they issued him a de?ant trespass notice based on his conduct and con?rmed history. 
The man was advised that he 
will be arrested if he returns 
to Carnegie Mellon-owned or 
leased property.
Campus Crime & Incident Reports
Source: www.weather.com
FEATURE PHOTO
Mary Shaw, the Alan J. 
Perlis university professor of 
computer science at Carnegie 
Mellon, has been selected by 
President Barack Obama to 
receive the National Medal of 
Technology and Innovation, 
the nations highest honor 
in recognizing technological 
achievements.
Building the reliable 
software systems that are 
the bedrock of commerce 
and communication today 
would not be possible without the engineering principles for large-scale software 
architecture pioneered by 
Mary and her colleagues at 
Carnegie Mellon, said Carnegie Mellon President Subra 
Suresh in a university press 
release.
Her hard work as a software engineer and educator 
has made CMU a leader in 
the ?eld. This national recognition for her contributions 
to technology and society is 
richly deserved, and all of us 
at CMU join in congratulating her, Suresh continued.
Shaw has been a part of 
the School of Computer Science faculty since 1971 and 
has done pioneering work in 
the ?eld of software architecture (the large-scale structure of software systems).
Shaw was one of eight recipients of the National Medal of Technology and Innovation this year, accompanying 
ten new recipients of the National Medal of Science.
Shaw and the rest of the 
award recipients will receive 
their medals at a White House 
ceremony later this year.
CMU and the city of Pittsburgh are so lucky to have had 
Mary living and working here 
over the years, said Andrew 
W. Moore, dean of the School 
of Computer Science, in a 
university press release. The 
discipline of computer science on campus and around 
the world grew through her; 
her in?uence is exerted every 
day through the thousands of 
in?uential leaders in the software industry who have been 
trained here.
Shaw wins national medal for technology
CMU leads NSF project on learning, data
Carnegie Mellon professor of human-computer interaction and psychology 
Kenneth Koedinger will lead 
a $5 million early implementation project sponsored by 
the National Science Foundation (NSF) to mine vast 
amounts of educational data 
and create a large, distributed infrastructure called 
LearnSphere.
Weve seen the power 
that data has to improve 
performance in many ?elds, 
from medicine to movie recommendations, Koedinger 
said in a university press 
release. Educational data 
holds the same potential to 
guide the development of 
courses that enhance learning. Gathering more of this 
data also promises to give us 
a deeper understanding of 
the learning process.
Researchers for the initiative will help course instructors improve teaching methods by looking at the data 
generated by interactive tutoring systems, educational 
games, and massive open 
online courses (MOOCs).
LearnSphere received one 
of 14 data-driven research 
awards given by the NSF, 
totaling more than $31 million, as part of the Data Infrastructure Building Blocks 
(DIBBS) program.
NSF has an ambitious 
vision for advancing scienti?c frontiers through an 
enabling and collaborative 
data infrastructure, said 
Irene Qualters, NSF division director for advanced 
cyberinfrastructure, in the 
press release. We are particularly pleased that this 
years DIBBs awards include 
this CMU-led project to 
build on the NSF-sponsored 
Pittsburgh Science of Learning Centers DataShop repository for educational researchers.
LearnSphere also ties into 
the universitys Simon Initiative, which aims to use data 
and technology to improve 
how students learn. The Simon DataLab was launched 
last year with the goal of 
making student-teacher interaction data more accessible to instructors. The new 
infrastructure being created 
as part of LearnSphere aims 
to further improve on this 
effort.
Ex of?cio report
STUDENT SENATE MEETING MINUTES
FRIDAY
High / Low
66 / 47
SATURDAY
High / Low
62 / 46
SUNDAY
High / Low
64 / 49
TUESDAY
High / Low
68 / 54
WEDNESDAY
High / Low
70 / 47
THURSDAY
High / Low
72 / 55
Compiled by
BRENT HEARD
Compiled by
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
Director of Athletics, Physical Education and Recreation 
Joshua Centor provided a report on the state of university 
athletics and the Jared L. Cohon University Center (CUC) 
expansion, highlighting that 
there were 70 student athletes 
with a 4.0 QPA last fall and 
58 with a perfect QPA in the 
spring. Overall, the student 
athlete QPA statistics are on 
par with those of the rest of 
the campus community, and 
109 athletes received the distinction of All American last 
year.
There are currently 18 
varsity sports. The most recent addition is womens golf. 
There is approximately the 
same number of club athletes 
as varsity athletes. One recent 
change is that club coaches are 
now being paid by the university as employees, with their 
salaries coming through the 
athletics department. Centor 
also discussed plans for renovating Skibo Gymnasium and  
putting  a new athletic facility in the CUC, expected to be 
completed in 2016.
Committee update: Senate Week
For Senate Week, student 
representatives will be giving 
out Senate-branded merchandise to interested students and 
selling T-shirts for ?ve dollars 
to the campus community.
Senate members will be tabling outside of Merson Courtyard 10 a.m.2 p.m., Oct. 610 
and will be encouraging students to like the Student Senate Facebook page as well as 
?ll out surveys regarding stress 
culture, the use of activity fees, 
the possibility of a smoke-free 
campus, and sexual assault 
policies.
Compiled by
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
Kevin Zheng/Junior Photographer
The plaza between the Jared L. Cohon University Center and West Wing was revamped this semester; the area was repaved and gained a network of 
planted trees. It is scheduled to be reopened on Oct. 9.

---------------------------------------------------

A3  thetartan.org/news The Tartan  October 6, 2014
Carnegie Mellon
Wind Ensemble
SAT
OCT11
2014
4 pm
music.cmu.edu
AND OPEN
TO THE
PUBLIC
Milhaud Chamber Symphony No. 5
Stravinsky Concerto for Piano 
and Wind Instruments
Proko?ev Four Marches Op. 69
George Vosburgh & Thomas Thompson, Co-Directors
Stephen Story, Associate Director
Rodrigo Ojeda, piano
Kresge Theatre, CFACMU ID
WITH
music.cmu.edu
Beethoven Piano Concerto No. 2
Haydn Symphony No. 88
Mendelssohn Symphony No. 4
Barry Douglas 
 guest conductor & piano
 Carnegie Music Hall, Oakland
Carnegie Mellon
Philharmonic  
 Andrs Crdenes, Artistic Director
SUN
OCT12
2014
7:30 pm
or thought-provoking: Its 
a non-issue when aliens arrive, What ever happened to 
midnight basketball?, I am 
Asian, not a genius, Ghettos 
a place, not an adjective, 
Hated for being a white cop, 
Delicious ambiguity: the permanent in-betweener, and 
Still more work to be done 
to name a few.
Norris own six-word story? Fooled them all, not done 
yet.
Many Carnegie Mellon 
community members who attended the lecture hope that 
projects like The Race Card 
Project inspire more campus 
dialogue on race. 
For Assistant Director in 
the Of?ce of the Dean of Student Affairs Shernell Smith, 
conversations about diversity 
strengthen the Carnegie Mellon community: Food, festivals, and fairs only get you 
so far, Smith said. With the 
unanswered questions in the 
room  or the elephant in the 
room  these kinds of dialogues allow for us to dig a little bit deeper and really have 
those meaningful exchanges 
with one another. Because 
those meaningful relationships are about collaboration.... As President Subresh 
said earlier this week, Diversity inspires innovation. And 
Carnegie Mellon is ?lled with 
innovation.
She really included a lot 
of multicultural issues; she hit 
on Asian ethnicities, Hispanic 
ethnicities, blacks, whites. I 
even like how she mentioned 
how whites are sometimes 
underprivileged because of 
the inability to say certain 
things that colored people 
can, sophomore English major Melanie Diaz said.
For others, the lecture 
sparked some more critical 
thoughts on Carnegie Mellons relationship with race.
CMU has a huge problem 
in that we not only devalue 
the humanities, but we pretend that science and technology are these holy grails 
of objectivity, when science 
and technology, in both education and application, both 
have a huge history of racism 
and sexism, junior chemistry and creative writing 
double major Sophie Zucker 
said. How can we call science and technology today 
not racist and sexist when 
60 years ago we were saying 
that racial differences indicated intelligence?
Others found the lectures 
tone fresh and hopeful.
It wasnt just lets acknowledge that race issues 
are alive,  said the secretary of the Black Graduate 
Students Organization and 
mechanical engineering doctoral candidate Nate Johnson. It was also Hey, lets be 
comfortable in our own skin 
while recognizing that its 
not that different from someone elses. We are naturally 
curious beings. Were evolved 
to notice differences. We 
dont have to let stereotypes 
dictate how we treat people, 
or how we perceive people 
are treating us. This race conversation doesnt have to be 
abrasive.
Norris talks about racism in U.S.
DIVERSITY, from A1
AWARDS, from A1
DONUTS, from A1
Neil Alexander, the founder of Live Like Lou, spoke at 
the end of the event, saying 
he was impressed with this 
years Donut Dash.
Six months ago, we received a phone call from SAE 
asking if they could work with 
us for Donut Dash ... which 
we thought was just about 
the best idea weve ever heard 
in our entire lives. This is an 
impressive group of young 
men, Alexander said.
According to Mich, the 
change was spurred on when 
the houses alumni adviser, 
Bob Dax, was diagnosed with 
ALS last year. Knowing that 
the disease is fast-paced, the 
brothers decided to honor 
Dax by dedicating their annual fall charity to Live Like Lou.
Ive seen ?rsthand how invaluable Dax is to the house. 
He is the reason that we are 
still on campus, the reason 
that our house is ?lled with as 
many great guys and strong 
leaders as we are. Somebody 
needed to step up to show him 
how much he means to us, 
Mich said.
[Dax] is truly the example 
of the SAE True Gentleman, 
Alexander said at the event.
In 2013, roughly 64 people 
were responsible for the 
majority of the fraternitys 
$22,000 funding.
We could do better; we 
could do so much better. 
Thats not a sustainable effort, and its not fair to our 
donors. They were investing 
in us, and it was our responsibility to show them what that 
money could do  not only 
on a college campus, but in a 
community, Mich said.
Cunningham was impressed with the fraternitys 
efforts and organization, 
saying, Their passion, drive, 
and emotion that has gone 
into making this happen says 
a lot about these men and 
how deeply they understand 
brotherhood and what that 
means. They are truly incredible men who have truly 
pushed the boundaries and 
made things happen, and I 
dont know how theyve made 
as many things happen as 
they have.
The fraternity raised 
$100,510.68, the largest sum 
raised by any organization on 
Carnegie Mellons campus, 
including collective events 
such as Greek Sing.
[We] wanted to show this 
campus what it really means 
to fundraise. We care about 
this cause, and even though 
we dont participate in a ton 
of stuff around campus, this 
is something that weve built 
a strong, growing foundation 
for. We dont do things that 
dont have a lasting impact. 
Were setting the expectations for next years leaders, 
Mich said.
According to Cunningham, the event has become so 
large that it caught the attention of Nigel Travis, the chief 
executive of?cer of Dunkin 
Donuts, who called the fraternity last week to thank them 
for placing the largest order 
ever  9,000 donuts. Dax, 
who attended the event, said 
that he was blown away by 
the fraternitys efforts.
Im overwhelmed. I cant 
say enough. I never expected 
anything like this, especially 
compared to last year. This is 
mind-bogglingly amazing, 
Dax said.
Though Mich does not 
hold an of?cial leadership 
role in the fraternity, he said 
he was determined to make 
Donut Dash a major event 
on campus by putting the 
amount of work that was required and having a desire to 
do things for the event.
As project manager for the 
event, Mich was responsible 
for the growth of the event: 
the food trucks (Mac & Gold 
and Franktuary), the live music from WISH 99.7, the donut 
decorating station, the community connections, and the 
corporate sponsorships, ranging from Peoples Natural Gas 
to The Brew Gentlemen Beer 
Company.
Cunningham said that she 
did not do much at all, but 
rather served as an adviser to 
help the men.
Its so rewarding to see 
that so many men are working 
together to make things happen, Cunningham said. You 
dont see that delegation very 
often, but that is truly what 
fraternity is and should be: to 
give others leadership opportunities and to work together 
and to be wholly invested in 
this as a chapter event.
I believe that any work 
that I do, personal or academic, I try to get the most 
out of it, Mich said. That 
sort of started with [David] 
Kosbies class, when the ?-
nal project was about doing 
something real and in?uential instead of just making a 
great game. Whenever Im 
faced with a problem, I want 
the solution to be the most 
bene?cial to me and the community. Donut Dash was the 
perfect ?t.
SAE hosts Donut Dash for charity
Ceremony recognizes faculty 
overcome obstacles ... in order to accomplish their goals, 
Tademy said of the winners. 
Like Randy Pausch, they run 
through walls.
The Outstanding Dedication Award was given to Gitzen. The Andy Awards website says of Gitzen, Day in 
and day out, [Chuck] just gets 
the job done, no matter what 
it is. In everything he does, 
Chuck is committed to doing 
a quality job.
The Andy Award for Outstanding Commitment to 
Students was presented by 
Dean of Student Affairs Gina 
Casalegno.
[The nominees] surpass 
their duties of their job description and understand 
the immediate as well as 
underlying needs of our students said Casalegno. Staff 
at this institution express an 
investment in learning about 
the whole student, through 
understanding students values, their ambitions, their 
aspirations, and what motivates them to learn and 
contribute to the broader 
community.
The award was given to 
Rubab Jafry OConnor (HNZ 
05), an academic adviser in 
the Tepper School of Business.
Mary Ann Blair, director of 
information security, presented the award for Outstanding 
Innovation.
As individuals, teams, and 
community members, people 
in this room continually invent and adapt, Blair said.
The award was given to 
Treshea Wade (HNZ 14), the 
sole nominee and assistant 
director of alumni relations in 
the Tepper School of Business.
An incredibly hard worker, [Wade] has earned a 
reputation for her imagination, creativity and innovative ideas especially related to 
online communication with 
alumni and social media according to the Andy Awards 
website.
The Andy Award for 
Outstanding Culture was 
awarded to Diane Stidle, the 
graduate programs manager 
in the School of Computer 
Sciences Machine Learning Department. According 
to the Andy Awards Website, 
the award for Outstanding 
Culture recognizes those who 
foster a balanced and inclusive workplace and bring 
out the best in each individual 
and organization.
Vice President for Campus Affairs Michael Murphy 
presented the Andy Award 
for Outstanding University 
Citizenship.
The Andy Award for Outstanding University Citizenship honors those who have 
made important contributions 
that bene?t the entire university community, Murphy said. 
These individuals have committed their time and energy 
to working with others to improve and enhance Carnegie 
Mellon as a whole.
The Outstanding University Citizenship award went 
to Rudman. According to the 
Andy Awards website, Over 
the years, the name Joe Rudman has been synonymous 
with caring and commitment.... He makes people 
around him better than they 
would have been, and he never gives up on those in whom 
he believes.
The last award was for 
Outstanding Community 
Contributions, and was presented by Krowitz.
Nominees for the Andy 
Award for Outstanding Community Contributions are 
those individuals who tirelessly devote themselves to 
enhancing the living, learning and working experience 
of the campus community, 
Krowitz said. Through their 
words and actions, they go 
above and beyond every single day in every single way.
The award was given to 
Leon Pete Smith and William Taylor of the Leonard 
Gelfand Center for Service 
Learning and Outreach Drivers Team. Smith and Taylor 
drive the buses used for education outreach by campus 
members.
Im so excited; its wonderful. Im so thankful that 
they recognized what we do, 
Taylor said. My mother said 
if you do something, do it 
good, and thats all I can do.
Kevin Zheng/Junior Photographer
Junior mechanical engineering major Dennys Morales eats a donut to gear up for Donut Dash, which raised 
over a hundred thousand dollars for Live Like Lou. 

---------------------------------------------------

XR Trading is currently hiring 
Traders and Software Engineers
Did you get a 31 or better on the ACT?
Did you get a 700 or better on the Math Portion of the SAT?
Are you interested in the trading industry 
and have programming experience?
If so, XR Trading may have a Trader 
position for you!
Are you fast at programming, with 
experience in C++, Matlab or R?
If so, XR Trading may have a 
Software Engineer position for you!
XR Trading is a proprietary trading firm located in the heart of Chicagos financial district. We design 
and build cutting-edge technology and serve as a leader in the global derivatives marketplace. 
We employ a team-based approach and leverage our technology and core competencies across 
a wide array of asset classes.
  100% employer-paid medical coverage  
  through Blue Cross Blue Shield-XR pays  
  100% of deductible
   Comprehensive dental and vision   
  coverageXR pays 100% of premium
   15 vacation days + 11 holidays
   Matching 401(K)
  Base salary starting at $80,000
   Discretionary bonus starting 
  at 0-$30,000
Benefits ProvidedCompetitive Compensation
XRTRADING.COM

---------------------------------------------------

October 6, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/scitech  A5
Feinberg studies electrical interactions of heart muscles
CLAIRE GIANAKAS
Staffwriter
Heart disease is a widespread af?iction that affects 
millions of people across the 
world. 
According to the Centers 
for Disease Control and Prevention, over 600,000 people 
die from sudden cardiac death 
per year. Due to this overwhelming prevalence, billions 
of dollars are spent each year 
on cardiac research.
Adam Feinberg, assistant 
professor of materials science 
and biomedical engineering at Carnegie Mellon, recently received a three-year 
$750,000 grant from the 
Human Frontier Science Program for research on cellular 
synchronization in the heart.
The research is a collaboration between Feinberg and 
Peter van der Meer, a cardiology professor at the University 
of Groningen in the Netherlands. The grant, which was 
speci?cally intended to fund 
international collaboration, 
will be split between the two 
researchers. 
Feinbergs research team 
also includes John Szymanski and Quentin Jallerat, biomedical engineering Ph.D. 
students at Carnegie Mellon 
University.
In order for the heart to 
function properly, there must 
be synchronized electrical 
signals between the heart 
muscle cells, which are called 
cardiomyocytes. 
With proper synchronization, the heart experiences 
strong contractions, which 
result in proper blood ?ow; 
improper synchronization 
results in decreased blood 
?ow, which can be fatal.
The team will use mechanical biosensors developed by 
Feinbergs research group 
to measure the mechanical 
interactions between cardiomyocytes and determine how 
this mechanical interaction 
affects their electrical connections. The biosensors can be 
integrated into bioengineered 
heart tissue, where they measure mechanical stress and 
strain. 
As the cells pull on each 
other, they stretch the sensors, 
which quantify how the cells 
physically interact.
Were trying to understand how the mechanical 
connections of cardiomyocytes have to be formed in 
order for the cells to form 
electrical connections, Feinberg explained. Every time 
the heart beats, the muscle 
cells contract and pull on each 
other. We want to know how 
these mechanical connections 
form the foundation for electrical connections.
Through the collaboration with van der Meer, the 
research team can take mouse 
embryonic stem cells, which 
can be turned into cardiomyocytes, and alter the genes that 
allow for the mechanical coupling of cells.
Van der Meer can remove 
genes that are responsible 
for the proteins that control 
the mechanical couplings 
between cells, said Feinberg. He can develop these 
stem cells where we can turn 
NSF provides $930K neuroscience grant
SHAOJIE BAI
Junior Staffwriter
Why is one able to feel pain 
and excitement? How does 
one listen and see? Behind 
our eyes and ears, there is an 
extremely complicated neuron system. Information is 
believed to be encoded in the 
form of electrical and chemical signals in our body, and 
neurons  electrically excitable cells that maintain electrical gradients across their 
membranes  are at the core 
of our transmission of information to the brain.
SCITECH BRIEFS
Sweat-eating bacteria could be cure for acne
In a study presented at the 
American Society for Microbiology Conference on Bene?-
cial Microbes in Washington, 
D.C., two groups of volunteers 
were asked to apply a topical 
cream on their skin. 
The experimental groups 
cream contained ammoniaoxidizing bacteria (AOB), 
which digest ammonia  a 
large component of sweat.
In comparison with the 
control group, the experimental group showed signi?cant 
improvements after three 
weeks. Additionally, volunteers who applied more of 
the bacteria experienced even 
greater improvements.
The experimental group 
did not experience any side 
effects associated with the 
treatment. AOB may be the 
solution to the Food and Drug 
Administrations warnings of 
the rare but life-threatening 
side effects of current acne 
products, which contain active 
ingredients benzoyl peroxide 
and salicylic acid. More studies will be conducted to con?rm the results of AOB.
Source: Discovery News
Canada opens ?rst large-scale carbon capture plant
Last Wednesday, Canada 
launched the worlds ?rst attempt at a large-scale carbon 
capture and storage plant. 
Located in Estevan, Saskatchewan, the Boundary Dam coal 
plant took ?ve years and $1.4 
billion to modify for the project. As it captures its emissions, most of the extracted 
carbon dioxide will be stored 
underground, while some of 
it will be piped to nearby oil 
?elds to be used for oil recovery. Cenovus Energy, one of 
Canadas largest oil and gas 
companies, has already agreed 
to purchase the recovered carbon. The expected annual capture of this project is estimated 
to be the equivalent of taking 
250,000 cars off the road.
Skeptics of the agreement 
have argued that the public 
should focus on alternative 
energy needs, including wind 
and solar power. 
Ultimately, the project will 
be a test to see whether reducing greenhouse gas emissions 
through the usage of capture 
technology is economically viable.
Source: International Business 
Times UK
First domestic case of Ebola con?rmed in Dallas hospital
After tests were run on 
samples taken from a patient 
in Dallass Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital, the Centers 
for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) con?rmed the 
?rst case of Ebola diagnosed in 
the U.S. It is believed that the 
patient may have contracted 
the virus while visitng relatives in Liberia.
Short for Ebola hemorrhagic fever, Ebola is a disease 
that arises from a viral infection. Ebola is only contagious 
if the person exhibits any 
symptoms, including vomiting and diarrhea. The Dallas 
patient was reported to have 
symptoms several days after 
?ying from West Africa to the 
U.S. Efforts are being made to 
monitor individuals who have 
recently been in contact with 
the patient, including a group 
of school-aged children.
While the case has brought 
about public concern, CDC Director Tom Frieden expressed 
his con?dence that the virus 
will quickly be stopped in its 
tracks.
Source: Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention
Student discovers method to study water on Mars
Kellie Wall, a senior at 
Washington State University 
(WSU), studied the potential 
effects of water on crystal formation in basalt, a dark volcanic rock found in much of eastern Washington and Oregon.
Through her collaboration 
with other researchers, Wall 
established a way to measure 
the texture of volcanic rock, 
which utilizes an index called 
groundmass crystallinity.
On WSUs campus, Wall 
used an X-ray diffraction machine to analyze rock samples from the various regions 
around the world. She then 
made comparisons with volcanic rock observations made by 
the rover Curiosity on Marss 
Gale Crater, which also used 
an X-ray diffractometer.
While her results indicate 
that the samples of Mars volcanic rock did not erupt with 
water, Walls method may 
prove to be useful in the ongoing search for life outside of 
Earth. 
Walls research has 
been published in Nature 
Communications.
Source: Science Daily
New drug-delivery capsule may replace injections
On average, a patient 
would prefer taking a drug 
orally rather than receiving 
an injection. However, many 
drugs cannot be administered 
as a pill due to the pills potential to breakdown in the digestive system.
Researchers at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Massachusetts General 
Hospital are working to solve 
that issue. 
They have designed a novel 
drug capsule, which is covered 
in a layer of tiny needles. After 
a capsule is swallowed, the 
needles are designed to attach 
to the lining of the stomach 
and inject the drug into the 
system. 
Through animal studies, 
the method has proved more 
ef?cient than typical skin injections and did not result in 
adverse side effects. 
In the future, the team 
intends to ?nd additional 
techniques for enhancing the 
effectiveness of the drug-delivery capsule and hopes to diminish safety concerns about 
the needles.
Source: Science Daily
Backdoors to smartphones could be dangerous
While Apple and Google 
have toughened the encryption of their smartphones, 
the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) has been making numerous complaints in 
response. On Thursday, FBI 
Director James B. Comey 
criticized the giant tech companies for making it harder 
for law enforcement of?cials 
to access information stored 
on a device. Police say such 
searches are essential to solve 
a wide range of serious crimes, 
such as murder and terrorist 
attacks.
Unfortunately, while creating a backdoor for law enforcement could help the FBI 
solve more crimes, these backdoors are not possible without 
making new vulnerabilities in 
the device.
In the meantime, law 
enforcement have publicly 
urged companies to leave such 
backdoors embedded in their 
devices.
Source: The Washington Post
Compiled by
SHARON WU
Courtesy of Adam Feinberg
Adam Feinberg recently received a grant to study the synchronization 
of cells in the heart. 
PUGWASH COLUMNReddit photo scandal sparks debate on website self-regulation
JOSEPH ROLLINSON
Special to The Tartan
During the celebrity 
phone hacking scandal, a 
small community on Reddit 
was the main aggregator of 
stolen photographs. Many 
called for Reddit to remove 
the material and close the 
community. In response, 
Reddit released a statement 
titled EVERY MAN IS RESPONSILBLE FOR HIS OWN 
SOUL, in which the company described itself as a 
government rather than just 
a company running a website, with the distinguishing 
factor being that a government exercises restraint in 
the usage of its powers. Pugwash decided to tackle this issue by discussing whether or 
not online communities can 
self-regulate.
Reddit is an entertainment and news communitybased website. Anyone can 
start a community, called a 
subreddit, which has its own 
page and followers. Subreddits are moderated by members of the subreddit, rather 
than employees of Reddit. In 
other words, they are selfregulated. Popular subreddits include music, pictures, 
gaming, and movies. The 
employees of Reddit do not 
remove content unless required by law to do so. This 
means that many unpleasant 
communities also call Reddit 
their home.
From the start, everyone 
at Pugwash agreed that those 
responsible for acquiring and 
sharing the celebrity photographs were in the wrong. 
They had done something 
that was not only probably 
illegal, but also ethically unsound. However, some argued that although online 
communities that self-regulate can host unpleasant communities, they are also home 
to important discussions 
on issues such as the Stop 
Courtesy of juliendn via Flickr
Nathan Urban, interim provost and the Dr. Frederick A. Schwertz distinguished professor of life sciences, and Robert Kass, professor of statistics 
and machine learning, have recently received a $930,000 grant from the National Science Foundation for neuroscience research.
See MUSCLES, A7
See COMMUNITIES, A6See NEURONS, A6
Typically when a biologist or 
even a physician thinks about a 
certain disease, they dont really 
think about mechanical forces.
  Adam Feinberg
Assistant professor of materials science and 
biomedical engineering

---------------------------------------------------

A6  thetartan.org/scitech The Tartan  October 6, 2014
CARNEGIE MELLON INVITES YOU TO ATTEND THE SEVENTH
Monday, October 6, 2014, 4:30 p.m.
McConomy Auditorium
Reception immediately following the lecture
Systemic Risk 
and the 
Risk Management 
Paradox
by Paul Glasserman
FREE AND OPEN TO THE PUBLIC
HOW THINGS WORKFridge cooling process is complex
ADITHYA VENKATESAN
Junior Staffwriter
As you grab your next 
drink or meal from that trusty 
little fridge you keep in your 
room, you might want to 
know a little more about what 
exactly is going on in there 
to make sure your food stays 
cold and fresh. 
Surprisingly, its a lot more 
complicated than you may 
think. For example, how do 
we get so much cold air to be 
in the fridge, without there 
being any in the fridge originally? How do we keep everything so compact? To understand how a fridge works, we 
should ?rst look at the cooling 
process involved.
The cooling process necessitates combining a 
few components to exploit 
the properties of different 
states of matter. According 
to howstuffworks.com, the 
fridge has a compressor or a 
pump that condenses the refrigerant gas, known as coolant. As a result, temperature 
and pressure of the coolant 
increases. Coolant is then 
pushed onto coils that are located outside of the refrigerator. 
Here, the heat that was 
just gained from the compressing process is released 
through cooling ?ns, allowing the coolant to condense 
back into a liquid. The liquid 
is then funneled into an expansion valve. Essentially, the 
high-pressure liquid from the 
coils is suddenly pushed into 
a low pressure area, which 
causes the temperature of this 
area to drop signi?cantly to a 
lower temperature than in the 
fridge. Some of the refrigerant immediately evaporates 
while the rest expands. Consequently, the temperature 
of the refrigerant absorbs the 
heat from the fridge, cooling 
the fridges air. It also evaporates to a gas, which sucks 
heat and energy from the 
surrounding air, cooling the 
fridge even more. After its 
journey through the fridge, 
the coolant returns to the 
compressor in order to restart 
its cycle.
As you can tell, the coolant plays a crucial role in the 
cooling process. But what is 
the refrigerant? The coolant 
depends on the type of refrigerator being considered. For 
example, most modern refrigerators use 1,1,1,2-tetra?uoroethane (HFC-134a), which 
is not toxic to humans and 
does not deplete the ozone 
layer. Before this coolant was 
used, however, ammonia 
was widely used. Ammonia, 
though useful, is extremely 
toxic to people, making leaks 
hazardous to anyone in the 
vicinity. Although they have 
been mostly phased out, many 
large industrial refrigerators 
still use ammonia. After ammonia came chloro?uorocarbons (CFCs), which are nontoxic to humans. However, 
this coolant is harmful to the 
ozone layer.
Although most refrigerators have a common cooling 
process, there are a few nonstandard refrigerators such 
as gas, propane, electric, and 
even solar fridges. The gas 
and propane fridges have a 
similar cooling process to that 
of a standard refrigerator, but 
are unique in their lack of 
both moving parts and electricity. They use ammonia and 
hydrogen gas in combination 
with the heat produced by the 
burning of gas or propane in 
order to cool the contents of 
the fridge. 
As the water and ammonia 
mixture reaches the boiling 
point, it begins to follow the 
same process as the standard 
fridge, with the heat from 
the gas or propane acting as 
the electricity to power the 
compressor. 
Electric and solar fridges 
are also very similar, using 
something called the Peltier 
effect to generate a difference 
in temperature. Essentially, it 
creates a temperature difference by applying voltage between two points. The colder 
side is placed in the fridge, 
while the hotter is placed 
outside.
There are many different 
types of refrigerators, but 
they all follow a very similar 
principle for cooling.
Most standard ones use a 
refrigerant that can essentially take heat from the inside 
of the fridge and push it out. 
With the constant creation of 
different types of refrigerators, well probably soon see a 
wider variety of ways to ful?ll 
this goal.
Online Piracy Act (SOPA), net 
neutrality, mass surveillance, 
and the Comcast and Time 
Warner Cable merger. If these 
companies did regulate, then 
important discussions may be 
censored.
Another important issue 
was the difference between 
hosting and linking content. 
Reddit does not host content; 
instead, it links to content 
hosted on other servers. We 
did not resolve whether or 
not there is a clear difference 
between hosting and linking to content, although we 
did agree that those who link 
to content are not without 
blame.
Throughout the discussion, we used physical analogies to better understand what 
was happening. For example, 
one member described Reddit 
as being like an organization 
that opens a park in which 
anyone can do whatever they 
want. In this analogy, it would 
seem strange to blame the 
organization for what people 
do inside the park. Instead, 
it would seem logical that 
we should blame the people 
themselves.
We then moved our discussion from bad communities on Reddit to bullying 
on Twitter. One could argue 
that Reddit is quite easy to 
moderate due to the centralized communities. Twitter, 
on the other hand, is much 
more decentralized and thus 
impossible to moderate. Bullying is rampant on Twitter. 
For example, Anita Sarkeesian, a feminist, was the target 
of a cyber mob who attacked 
her through social media outlets, including Twitter. The 
attacks, although only online, 
were incredibly painful and 
violent, and the perpetrators 
went unpunished. Sarkeesian is not a special case. Many 
people, not only the rich and 
famous, are cyberbullied, and 
rarely is anything done in response. Those at the meeting 
agreed that this was a serious issue but did not have any 
suggestions on how to solve it.
The meeting ended with a 
poll where we asked whether 
or not Reddit should have removed the content when they 
were asked to. A vast majority 
said that Reddit should have 
removed the content, but interestingly the entire group 
agreed that Reddit should not 
have removed the content before they were asked to.
Student Pugwash is a nonadvocacy, educational organization that discusses the implications of science. This article 
is a summary of last weeks 
discussion on whether or not 
online communities can selfregulate.
PUGWASH COLUMNRegulation of communities online has pros and cons
However, while scientists 
are beginning to understand 
many of the mechanisms 
behind neurons, much of 
neuroscience still remains a 
mystery. 
Nathan Urban, interim 
provost and the Dr. Frederick 
A. Schwertz distinguished 
professor of life sciences, and 
Robert Kass, professor in the 
statistics department and machine learning department, 
have recently received a National Science Foundation 
(NSF) grant of $930,000 to 
support their statistical neuroscience and biological research on understanding how 
neurons encode information. 
The research is part of BrainHub, a neuroscience research 
initiative at Carnegie Mellon 
that brings together scientists 
from the ?elds of biology, 
cognitive psychology, computer science, statistics, and 
engineering.
According to the Urban 
Lab website, the lab work[s] 
in the areas of cell and synaptic physiology, computational 
neuroscience ... and on the 
understanding of mechanisms of synchronous oscillations in networks of neurons. 
The brain contains billions of 
neurons that communicate 
with each other via synapses, 
but no two neurons are the 
same. 
By studying the way that 
individual neurons react to 
stimuli, Urban Lab found that 
different neurons react to the 
same stimuli differently.
For a long time, we didnt 
realize the signi?cance of the 
differences between neurons. 
We thought it was just noise, 
Urban said in a university 
press release. But the subtle 
nuances play a crucial role in 
brain function. Understanding the biology behind this 
could have a tremendous impact on our understanding 
of how the brain computes 
information.
However, Urbans work 
alone is not enough to explain the complex processes 
involved in how our brains 
compute information. 
The NSF grant involves 
a collaboration between the 
Carnegie Mellon researchers 
and a group led by Alon Korngreen of Bar-Ilan University in 
Israel. 
The biophysical techniques developed by Korngreen will be employed to 
create extremely comprehensive computational models 
of the biological mechanisms 
responsible for neuronal 
activity. 
The two teams will combine this data with the information collected by Urban 
and Kass, which connect 
neural activity to neural 
computation. 
Research into the biophysical and statistical analysis of neurons has been running in parallel paths, Kass 
said in a university press 
release. 
Fitting together the pieces 
of data collected by the international team and the 
Carnegie Mellon researchers has the potential to solve 
the puzzle of the role neuron 
biology plays in neuronal 
computation.
The research may contribute to curing brain diseases 
as well. In his research, Urban 
also seeks to understand how 
the expression of particular 
proteins is related to speci?c 
computations performed by 
neurons. This work could help 
scientists understand how the 
mutations in proteins lead to 
complicated de?cits observed 
in brain diseases.
BrainHub, which was just 
launched this summer, seeks 
to elucidate the structure and 
activity of the brain by combining the efforts of various 
disciplines not just within 
Carnegie Mellon, but around 
the world. 
BrainHubs website 
states, Taking a global approach to understanding the 
brain, CMU, with its partners 
around the world, is uniquely 
quali?ed for tackling this sort 
of highly interdisciplinary 
research. 
The brain consists of a 
complex network of neurons; 
it will take a network of researchers around the world to 
understand it.
Neuroscience research calls for interdisciplinary studies
Eunice Oh/Staff Artist
NEURONS, from A5
COMMUNITIES, from A5
Emily Giedzinski/Staff Artist
Research into 
the biophysical 
and statistical 
analysis of 
neurons has 
been running in 
parallel paths.
 Robert Kass
Professor of  statistics 
and machine learning

---------------------------------------------------

October 6, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/scitech  A7
Where do you want to go? 
Applying is now faster and more personal.
peacecorps.gov    -     855.855.1961  
SERVICE PANEL: 
OPPORTUNITIES AT HOME 
& ABROAD
Tuesday, October 7 
7 to 8 p.m.
McKenna & Peter Rooms
University Center
5000 Forbes Avenue
Carnegie Mellon University
Peace Corps
Choose Where You Serve.  
Apply in One Hour.
Make a difference overseas as a 
Peace Corp Volunteer.
The Lipper Awards are based on a review 
of 36 companies 2012 and 48 companies 
2013 risk-adjusted performance.
BEST OVERALL LARGE FUND COMPANY2
1Restrictions apply. Must be enrolled in a TIAA-CREF retirement plan to be eligible. 2The Lipper Award is given 
to the group with the lowest average decile ranking of three years Consistent Return for eligible funds over the 
three-year period ended 11/30/12 and 11/30/13, respectively. TIAA-CREF was ranked against 36 fund 
companies in 2012 and 48 fund companies in 2013 with at least ? ve equity, ? ve bond, or three mixed-asset 
portfolios. TIAA-CREF Individual & Institutional Services, LLC, and Teachers Personal Investors Services Inc. 
C17743B 2014 Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association of America  College Retirement Equities Fund 
(TIAA-CREF), 730 Third Avenue, New York, NY, 10017.
Consider investment objectives, risks, charges and expenses
carefully before investing. Go to tiaa-cref.org for product and 
fund prospectuses that contain this and other information. 
Read carefully before investing. TIAA-CREF funds are subject
to market and other risk factors. Past performance does not 
guarantee future results.
AND THATS JUST FINE.
 YOU MAY BE A TERRIBLE INVESTOR.
Thankfully not everyone has to be an investing 
genius. At TIAA-CREF, we specialize in helping clients 
reach their long-term goals with personalized advice.1 
In person, online and on the phone. All at no extra 
charge. See what our professional advice and 
award-winning performance can do for your 
? nancial health. The sooner you act, the better. 
Learn more in one click at TIAA.org 
or call  -??.
5021A0002 C17743B INVESTOR 10x15 NWS Various_1.indd
Cyan Magenta Yellow Black
73092
different genes off and back 
on in the same cell without 
killing it, so we can turn these 
mechanical adhesions on and 
off and see how that disrupts 
electrical connections.
Feinberg also commented 
on the interdisciplinary nature of the research: Typically when a biologist or even 
a physician thinks about a 
certain disease, they dont really think about mechanical 
forces, but these forces are 
directly tied to the way things 
work.
Due to the combination 
of engineering and biology 
within the research, the team 
sees a variety of possible 
applications for the research.
The main application of 
the research is insight into arrhythmia. 
Arrhythmia can be de?ned 
as a problem with the rate 
or rhythm of the heartbeat, 
which corresponds to electrical dysfunction of the heart. 
Most arrhythmias are benign, 
yet some can be severely damaging or even fatal.
The research will give 
us more information about 
the underlying mechanisms 
of arrhythmia, Feinberg 
explained. It wont address 
all cases, but it can give us 
some insight into cases where 
the mechanical coupling of 
cells underlies the arrhythmia.
The research could also potentially impact the treatment 
of many diseases associated 
with arrhythmia that occur in 
the elderly. 
If we know the cause of 
the arrhythmia, then we can 
potentially develop therapeutics, Feinberg said. It could 
be a small molecule drug that 
we give someone to alter the 
mechanical connection between cells, or if gene therapy 
is a reality in the future, then 
we can potentially address it 
that way.
Feinberg also mentioned 
that the research could have 
applications aside from treating arrhythmia. 
The ability to create these 
sensors allows us to do live 
real time tracking of mechanical strain and stress in these 
living tissues as they grow 
and develop, he said. That 
will help us try to understand 
what some of the forces involved in the formation of 
different kinds of tissue structure are during embryonic 
development.
Feinberg seeks to understand arrhythmia
MUSCLES, from A5
The main 
application of 
the research 
is insight into 
arrhythmia 
... a problem 
with the rate or 
rhythm of the 
heartbeat. 

---------------------------------------------------

Office: University Center 314
Web: www.thetartan.org
E-mail: contact@thetartan.org
Mail:
The Tartan
Box 119, UC Suite 103 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
The Tartan is a student newspaper at Carnegie Mellon University, funded in part by the student 
activities fee. It is a weekly publication by students during the fall and spring semesters, printed by 
Trib Total Media. The Tartan is not an official publication of Carnegie Mellon University. 
The Editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The 
Tartan Editorial Board. Columns, Editorial Cartoons, and Reviews are the opinions of their 
individual creators. The Tartan Editorial Staff reserves the right to withhold from publication 
any copy it deems unfit.
Letters to the Editor are the opinions of their authors. Letters from within the University community take precedence. Letters intended for publication must be signed and include the authors 
address and telephone number for verification; letters must not exceed 350 words. Authors names 
may be withheld from publication upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject 
any letter. Letters must be submitted by 5 p.m. on the Wednesday before publication by mail or to 
forum@thetartan.org.
FROM THE EDITORIAL BOARD
A8  thetartan.org/forum The Tartan  October 6, 2014
Climate change is a hot-button 
topic, as it should be, with bitter 
divisions over its impact and implications for the future. With all the 
media buzz, its easy to dismiss it as 
clickbait and journalistic hyperbole. 
However, global warming is still 
an exceedingly serious issue, and 
should be treated as such.
The European Space Agency released a report just last week from 
the GOCE (Gravity Field and SteadyState Ocean Circulation Explorer), 
detailing its ?ndings on how the 
loss of ice from Western Antarctica 
between 2009 and 2012 has caused 
a dip in the gravitational ?eld in the 
region. Dips in gravity arent abnormal, but usually those dips take place 
slowly, over thousands of years, according to Discovery News.
While scientists do not yet know 
the direct impact such rapid changes 
in gravity will have, the fact remains: 
Climate change is now altering the 
way fundamental laws of our planet 
work, laws that have governed our 
environment for millions of years.
According to a Stanford University study funded by the National 
Science Foundation, climate change 
is causing unprecedented drought 
in California. Scienti?c American 
predicts that the desert climate of 
the Sahara will begin pushing northward; southern Europe is already experiencing intense droughts. Whether or not people want to accept 
climate change as a problem, it is.
Its important to separate political 
ideology from scienti?c fact. There is 
no question that climate change is a 
rapidly escalating problem. To deny 
this fact is, simply put, scienti?cally 
misguided. Of course, it is easy to 
become overwhelmed by the sheer 
size of the problem, to feel lost in the 
crush of dire circumstance. 
However, people should not look 
at every newly found environmental 
crisis as another sign that the world 
is coming to an end. Instead, people 
should look at each new piece of 
information as a personal call to action, an impetus to change the way 
we look at, and interact with, the environmental world.
Climate change continues to be serious issue
Eunice Oh/Asst. Art Editor, Emily Giedzinski/Staff Artist
California just experienced a 
wave of progressive legislation 
signed into law last week, brie?y 
becoming a stronghold of legislative 
ef?ciency while most of the countrys governments are stuck in gridlock. Governor Jerry Brown has now 
signed bills into law that address 
sexual consent on college campuses, 
eliminate the gay panic defense in 
cases of LGBTQ hate crimes, and ban 
single-use plastic bags.
With growing discussion and debate regarding sexual assault on college campuses, the Yes Means Yes 
law is the ?rst of its kind to be passed 
by a state, de?ning consent as af?rmative, conscious, and voluntary 
agreement and requiring colleges 
to provide sexual assault victims 
with con?dential report opportunities, counseling, and access to an 
advocate. The provision of these  
resources is tied to state funding for 
student ?nancial aid.
In addition to the passing of this 
af?rmative consent law, California 
passed a law eliminating the gay 
panic and trans panic defenses 
which have been used in court cases to reduce sentences. Previously, 
these defenses have been used in assault cases against gay or transgender people to claim that the assailant was too shocked by discovering 
the victim was transgender or gay 
to be held fully responsible for their  
actions. 
Thankfully, homophobic and 
transphobic defenses will no longer 
be accepted in California, a standard 
other states should certainly adopt.
In terms of environmental issues, 
this recent display of legislative action has also banned the distribution 
of single-use plastic bags by grocery 
stores and pharmacies, and implements a 10-cent charge for plastic 
or compostable bags. Liquor stores 
and convenience stores will be affected by this ban in one year, and 
the 10-cent charge can only be used 
by stores to cover costs associated 
with complying with this new law. 
Plastic bags are a signi?cant contributor to environmental damage, and 
this move should help curb the devastating ecological impacts of their 
overuse.
While much of the country is facing a painfully unproductive legislative season, California has become 
a small beacon of hope in successfully passing a number of progressive 
pieces of legislation. 
We can only hope that other 
states, and our federal government, 
will take similar steps in the near  
future.
Calif. on ?re with new progressive legislation
Ebola not a widespread threat to Americans
On Sept. 30, a man in Texas who 
had recently traveled to Liberia was 
diagnosed with the ?rst documented 
case of Ebola in the United States, 
heightening previous worries about 
the disease that erupted after ebolainfected missionaries were ?own 
home from West Africa this summer.
However, in a country with a 
well-established healthcare system 
and access to basic sanitary necessities, there is little need to worry 
that the appearance of the disease in 
America could become a widespread 
epidemic. 
Unlike Liberia and other West 
African nations, the United States 
has measures in place to prevent the 
rapid spread of a disease like Ebola. 
The Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention (CDC), for example, can 
identify and monitor people who 
came into contact with the Texan 
to ensure that the disease does not 
spread further than already infected 
individuals.
Additionally, the disease is not 
airborne; it can only be spread 
through direct contact with bodily 
?uids from infected individuals. 
Once a person is identi?ed as having 
Ebola, it is easy for the CDC and doctors to contain the patient and, effectively, the disease. The disease can 
also be killed by cleaners and other 
sanitizers.
Ebola has become widespread in 
other nations because of a lack of 
similar, already-established response 
networks like the CDC and Americas 
vast hospital network, as well as limited access to sanitizing products. 
Without these resources, it is dif?-
cult for people  to treat those infected  
in a sanitary way that will not infect 
caregivers and, in turn, those they 
interact with.
While the spread of Ebola is a 
true concern in other nations with 
less developed healthcare systems, 
the spread of the disease in America 
is something that should be of relatively little concern to citizens. This 
is especially true when one considers 
that the likelihood of being killed by 
food poisoning or partying too hard 
is greater than the likelihood of dying from Ebola in America, according 
to Newsweek. So dont sweat Ebola, 
fellow Americans  at least for now.
It quietly slipped by, unnoticed, 
lost in the turmoil of the ISIS crisis 
 the 50th anniversary of President 
Lyndon Johnsons War on Poverty 
speech. Fifty years ago, Johnson verbally recognized the problem of cyclical poverty and, in addition to giving the issue national attention, he 
started several means-tested welfare 
programs designed to turn what he 
called taxeaters into taxpayers. 
In other words, the War on Poverty 
was supposed to help people achieve 
self-sustenance, welfare programs 
would eventually be phased out, 
and prosperity would be achieved.
Since the war on poverty started, 
America has spent $22 trillion on 
means-tested welfare programs in 
constant 2012 dollars. Yet weve 
made minimal progress. When LBJ 
left of?ce in 1969, the poverty rate 
sat at about 13 percent; Now its 15 
percent.
It seems impossible that we can 
spend $22 trillion over 50 years and 
still have 15 percent of the country 
living in poverty. Thats because it 
actually is impossible. According 
to a recent Heritage Foundation report, 75 percent of those deemed to 
be living in poverty have a car. Thirty one percent of the impoverished 
have two cars, two-thirds have cable 
TV, more than half have video game 
systems, and 40 percent have widescreen LCD TVs.
When we think about poverty, 
we think about not having enough 
food to feed a family or sustain ones 
own health. We think about homelessness and the kind of material 
deprivation that nobody in a country as wealthy as the United States 
should have to face. Turns out, only 
two percent of those in poverty are 
homeless, and, according to the 
Department of Agriculture, impoverished children and upper-middle 
class children have an identical intake of protein and vitamins. The 
overwhelming majority of those in 
poverty reported that they were not 
hungry for a single day during the 
prior year.
Though there are people in this 
country who do face the type of material deprivation we associate with 
poverty, the problem isnt as widespread as we think  the 15 percent ?gure is certainly misleading. 
That $22 trillion that weve spent 
on eradicating poverty has actually 
just bolstered the lifestyles of those 
with yearly earnings that place them 
in the impoverished income bracket.
If thats a decision that we want 
to make, then thats one thing, but 
such raw wealth redistribution 
seems to intuitively run counter to 
the American ethos. As LBJ originally described the War on Poverty, 
the goal was to turn taxeaters into 
taxpayers. By that measure, the 
War on Poverty has failed miserably. 
We have a nearly identical percentage of the country in the impoverished income bracket, and welfare 
spending in chained 2012 dollars is 
now 20 times what it was when LBJ 
left of?ce.
Fortunately, we already spend a 
lot of money on these means-tested 
welfare programs. Rather than gutting the programs or looking for 
more funding, all we have to do to 
?x this issue is restructure the administration of these resources. That 
way they can help people become 
self-suf?cient. There are all kinds of 
plausible ideas for welfare programs 
out there, many of which are now 
suggesting that local governments 
would be best equipped to handle 
the war on poverty, as theyre intimately familiar with the problems of 
their constituents.
To re?ect this at a policy level, 
the federal government would restructure means-tested welfare 
spending as a state grant. States 
that opt in would be given the federal money that would have gone 
toward traditional means-tested 
welfare programs. The states would 
then experiment and see which antipoverty measures work best. 
Similar plans have been suggested in the past, and while they 
havent been perfect, they still came 
close to achieving the original aims 
of the War on Poverty. In order to 
actually lift people up into true, 
self-ordained prosperity, we need to 
restructure federally appointed welfare spending. Hopefully the 50th 
anniversary of the War on Poverty 
will give us cause to re?ect on the 
past and commit to positive change 
for the future.
Kyle Henson (kahenson@) is a 
staffwriter for The Tartan.
War on Poverty will fail without restructuring
KYLE HENSON
Maegha Singh/Staff Artist 
Editorial Staff
Editorial Board
RACHEL COHEN *
Publisher
BRADEN KELNER *
Editor-in-Chief
ARIEL HOFFMAIER
Forum Editor 
KATE GROSCHNER *
Contributing Editor
CHLOE THOMPSON
Staffwriter
BRENT HEARD *
Contributing Editor
JUSTIN MCGOWN
Staffwriter
LAURA SCHERB *
Operations Manager
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
News Editor
BROOKE KUEI
SciTech Editor
JOEY PEISER
Pillbox Editor
MARYYANN LANDLORD
Comics Editor
JONATHAN LEUNG
Photo Editor
MICHELLE WAN
Art Editor
MARTHA PATERSON
Online Editor
MAIRAD PETTIT
Personnel Manager
ANNE-SOPHIE KIM
Layout Manager
WILL CRICHTON
Systems Manager
JOHN HUO
Advertising Manager
DESIREE XU
Business Manager
JAMES WU
Copy Manager
NIVEDITA CHOPRA
Asst. Copy Manager
EVAN KAHN
Asst. Copy Manager
ROBERT MARATOS
Asst. Systems Manager
BENJAMIN CHANG
Asst. Business Manager
ROHAN VARMA
Asst. SciTech Editor
XIYU WANG
Asst. Forum Editor
JENNA BODNAR
Asst. Pillbox Editor
EUNICE OH
Asst. Art Editor
SENIOR STAFF 
Carl Glazer, Greg Hanneman, Alan Vangpat
COPY
Lula Beresford-Banker, Francesca Begos, 
Christopher Benson, Amelia Britton, Gordon 
Estes, Rin Fair, Stephanie Stern, Emily 
Giedzinski, Stephen Stern, Emily Tsui, Diana 
Zhou
LAYOUT
Isabel Bleimeister, Yong Gun Choe, Michael 
Das, Rin Fair, Aishwarya Guda, Seungmin Ha, 
Korrawat Jianthanakanon, Rissa Lee, Udaya 
Malik, Evelyn Pandos, Ian Tanaya, Abhy 
Vytheeswaran  
ADVERTISING
Alison Chiu, Anuva Kulkarni
 2014 The Tartan, all rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN: 0890-3107
* Denotes executive committee member

---------------------------------------------------

A PERSONS OPINION
October 6, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/forum  A9
Compiled by Kevin Zheng
The Tartan was grossed out, yet amazed by this weekends Donut Dash. So we asked,
Which baked good would you want a lifetime supply of?
For the last few years, Hong Kong 
has readied itself for the ongoing 
debate and protests that have raged 
through the citys business district of 
Central.
Occupy Central, a movement 
dedicated to civil disobedience and 
organized by professors, lawyers 
and members of the clergy, was already hyped up last summer. Many 
writers and witnesses have referenced the Tiananmen Massacre and 
the tragedy that unfolded during 
Chinas last large civil disobedience 
occupation. However, it is important 
to note that while the possibility of 
a crackdown is not negligible, China faces a unique set of constraints 
from the international community 
that limits its hand. Last time, China 
was in the midst of its dark ages, 
not the economic juggernaut it is 
today.
A sudden change in tactic on the 
part of the Hong Kong government 
reveals the new approach being 
implemented by Beijing and Hong 
Kong. A week ago, video footage 
of crackdowns on violent protesters showed tear gas canisters being 
hurled into large crowds. As a Hong 
Kong resident myself, it never would 
have crossed my mind that extreme 
political unrest reminiscent of the 
Arab Spring was occurring in Hong 
Kong.
It is important for people to know 
about the events unfolding in Hong 
Kong, a city that has long served as 
the bridge from Eastern to Western 
worlds. While the bulk of Chinas 
population lives below or on the 
poverty line, Hong Kongs citizens 
enjoy a much higher standard of life, 
equal to that of the United Kingdom 
or Iceland. 
Additionally, the future of the 
small territory offers valuable insight into the future of China. The 
way in which China reacts in the 
coming weeks, apart from its expected condemnation of the protests, 
will give hints of Chinas long term 
political future. 
As a student from Hong Kong, 
I am often asked what Hong Kong 
actually is. Is it an independent citystate like Singapore? I always reply 
with its part of China, but Hong 
Kong keeps a separate government.
This is of?cially called the onecountry, two-systems government 
as outlined in the Basic Law, the de 
facto constitution of Hong Kong. 
The Basic Law was written when 
Hong Kong transitioned from British 
colony to reclaimed special administrative region of China. As a result 
of this history, Hong Kong was once 
a prized possession of both Britain 
and China. It served as the gateway 
for the Chinese to sell their goods 
and for the British to gain access to 
the lucrative, emergent markets in 
China. However, the rise of Shanghai as Chinas own ?nancial hub in 
the last decade or so has dimmed 
Hong Kongs importance. While 
Hong Kong remains a major city that 
many corporations focus their operations on, it is not as indispensable 
as it used to be.
The Basic Law also guaranteed 
Hong Kong a large amount of autonomy in affairs not concerned 
with national defense or foreign diplomacy. This autonomy formerly 
meant that Hong Kong would be 
able to hold its own elections in 
2017. Each citizen would receive 
one vote, and candidates would be 
nominated from Hong Kong by the 
Hong Kong people. This was the vision many Hong Kong citizens had 
harbored. However, the Chinese 
government disagrees, and released 
a statement over the summer saying it would only allow Hong Kong 
elections under the condition that 
the candidates be approved by the 
mainland. Clearly, universal suffrage isnt very universal in the Chinese governments vision.
Hong Kong has prized itself on 
being Asias World City. Although 
competition may have diminished 
the city in terms of economic might, 
it remains a pearl that has been long 
prized by both Eastern and Western cultures. As a result, it prides 
itself on being Asias best place to 
live, work, or do business. It has accomplished this all under the onecountry, two-systems rule. Many 
people recognize this and are proud 
of this fact, and consequently, economic progress for them also means 
political progress  speci?cally, 
democratization.
Many critics in Hong Kong and 
China point out that Hong Kong already enjoys a high degree of autonomy and should not be complaining. 
But changes in Chinas hierarchy, 
as well as their plan to allow universal suffrage point to the fact that 
Hong Kong may be going backward 
in terms of political organization. 
Xi Jinping, Chinas new president, has been shown to be a strong, 
decisive leader and is very much focused on a consolidated, executive 
of?ce in China. His quick movement 
to dismantle the corrupted elite of?ces in China, as demonstrated by 
the capture of Zhou Yongkang over 
the summer, paints a picture of a 
powerful and determined leader. 
Recognizing this, the people of 
Hong Kong fear that the elements 
that made Hong Kong so dynamic 
may soon disappear, especially as 
China tightens its grip around the 
city. 
Going forward may be a tall order, but in the eyes of Hong Kong 
citizens, the Umbrella Revolution is 
the only thing stopping them from 
sliding back down.
Justin Yan (jky@) is a staffwriter for 
The Tartan.
How often do you ?nd yourself 
asking for a plastic bag at Entropy+? 
Does the fee of a few cents change 
your mind about using plastic bags? 
Taxes need to hit a certain pain level 
to actually change behavior and since 
taxes do not always call for immediate 
action, statewide bans on plastic bags 
may be necessary. Last week, California became the ?rst state to ban plastic bags  of?cially  a model for other 
states.
Over the past few years, a handful of local and city governments 
have been successful in implementing a plastic bag tax or even a ban on 
plastic shopping bags altogether. San 
Francisco was the ?rst major city to 
ban plastic bags in 2007. 
This ban led other local governments to follow its model. Seattle, 
for example, prohibits retail stores 
from providing customers with single-use plastic carry-out shopping 
bags. Retail stores are allowed to 
provide any size recyclable paper or 
reusable bags, but they must charge 
5 cents for paper carry-out bags of a 
large enough size.
Increasingly, more local governments have been following these 
examples, but there has not been a 
statewide ban on plastic bags until 
now. The California ban will go into 
effect from 2015 through 2016. This 
statewide ban should be a powerful 
way to push people to use fewer plastic bags and encourage them to use 
reusable ones.
Environmental activists have 
pushed for plastic bag bans for years, 
as these bags create mountains of 
trash that are dif?cult to recycle. In 
addition, plastic bag manufacturers use energy and nonrenewable 
resources like oil. The use of plastic 
bags isnt the only problem; their creation also harms the environment.
However, it has been dif?cult to 
pass a statewide ban because plastic 
bags are cheaper for businesses to 
use than paper bags. According to 
Cathy Browne, a general manager 
at a California plastic bag manufacturer, the banning of plastic bags will 
lead to layoffs in companies such as 
hers. 
In response, Democratic California governor Jerry Brown stated that 
the ban will be closing the loop on 
the plastic waste stream, all while 
maintaining  and growing  California jobs.
Even within the community of environmentalists, there are disagreements on the ban of plastic bags. 
There are people who oppose banning plastic bags and suggest that a 
tax is the better alternative. 
One of the main arguments 
against the ban is that plastic bags 
are very low in priority when all environmental issues are considered. 
Nevertheless, encouraging small, 
environmentally positive changes 
is a step. It may or may not make a 
giant impact right away, but it is, in 
fact, a step.
For those cities that do not have 
plastic bag bans, it is not dif?cult to 
make the more environmentallyfriendly choice on an individual level. You can walk into any grocery or 
convenience store and ?nd a display 
of reusable bags for sale. As students, 
we typically carry backpacks that 
can also be used to carry groceries. 
Make it a habit of bringing a reusable bag with you when you go 
grocery shopping. It is not a huge 
change to make,  but, in the company of many others, it will make a 
signi?cant impact on the future of 
our environment.
Calif. plastic bag ban example to all
KAYLA LEE
Junior Staffwriter
Emily Giedzinski/Staff Artist
[Hong Kong] 
prides itself on 
being Asias best 
place to live, work, 
or do business. It 
has accomplished 
this all under the 
one-country, twosystems rule.
Hong Kong needs its 
autonomy to progress
JUSTIN YAN
Microsoft has always been a risk 
taker with its products, often releasing 
them to the market before they have 
been properly readied.
We have seen this time and time 
again with Windows Vista, the Surface line of products, and most recent prominent instance, Windows 
8. After the Windows Vista disaster, 
Windows 7 came in to save the day. 
After several iterations of its Surface 
tablet, the new 12-inch Surface arrived as the product that Microsoft 
should have been producing all 
along. Windows 10 answers the complaints about Windows 8, an operating system that could not even manage to achieve a 15 percent adoption 
rate among Windows users.
As the market moved toward 
mobile devices, Microsoft became 
well aware that it needed to become 
more touchscreen friendly or die. 
However, releasing Windows 8 as 
a response to this trend was much 
too radical, plaguing mouse and 
keyboard users with large tiles and 
hidden menus that were clearly not 
optimal for their peripherals.
However, with Windows 10, Microsoft may have ?nally hit the nail on 
the head with its dream of One Product Family, One Platform, and One 
Store. They appear to have ?nally 
created an operating system that tailors to touchscreen users, while not 
throwing desktop users aside.
First and foremost, they have 
restored the coveted Start Menu. 
Nearly 20 years after its creation, it 
is ?nally making its return and, with 
it, Microsoft is ?nally doing what it 
should have done all along. Instead 
of plaguing desktop users with a giant fullscreen view of their tiles, a 
much more user-friendly start menu 
 complete with a resizable dynamic tile menu  greets new and 
returning Windows users.
For desktop users, full-screen 
modern apps can now be run in resizable windows, along with legacy 
Windows 7 applications. Microsoft 
has not forgotten about the desktop, and the company is now adding 
loads of features, including a smarter snap and an updated command 
prompt and desktop search.
However, Microsoft has equally 
considered touchscreen users. For 
devices without physical keyboards, 
users will still be greeted by a modern user interface (UI), optimized 
for touchscreen. More impressively, 
when they attach to a keyboard with 
the new continuum feature, the 
desktop  along with more mouseand keyboard-friendly UI features  
will take the screen.
With Windows 10, Microsoft 
will also add universal apps to the 
Windows Store, which will run 
on all Windows 10 devices, everything from mobile to computer to 
television-connected media devices.
While its implementation was 
overly radical, Windows 8 and similar progressive ideas will help Microsoft continue to generate in order 
to remain prominent in the market. 
However, while progressive ideas 
are imperative, Microsoft must make 
sure that it is not too radical in implementation. Windows 10 should be a 
major improvement to Windows 8, 
restoring functionality to traditional 
users, while continuing to bring 
touchscreen and mobile users into 
the future.
Brandon Schmuck (bschmuck@) is a 
staffwriter for The Tartan.
Windows 10 makes up for past ?ops
BRANDON SCHMUCK
Ryan Chandler
Math
First-year
Does cookie dough count if 
its been in the oven for two 
seconds?
Blake Simmermon
Chemistry
First-year
Do twinkies count?
Ragav Ramakrishnan
Information Systems
Graduate Student
Wheat bread.
Neeharika Taneja
Information Systems
Graduate Student
Chocolate brownies.
Derek Young
Statistics
First-year
Brownies because theyre soft 
and sweet.

---------------------------------------------------

A10  thetartan.org/sports The Tartan  October 6, 2014
 
14CC00067KP
srnl.doe.gov
Follow us on Facebook,  
Twitter, YouTube and Flickr.
can put science to work
at Savannah River National Laboratory
Solve challenging energy, 
environmental and national security 
problems in disciplines such as 
chemistry and chemical engineering, 
materials science, nuclear and 
systems engineering, atmospheric 
science, computer science, cyber 
security and related ?elds.
Savannah River National Laboratory 
is the nations applied science 
and technology laboratory. Were 
located at the Savannah River Site, 
a 310-square-mile facility owned  by 
the U.S. Department of Energy near 
Aiken, S.C.
You and Savannah River National Laboratory.  
Putting science to worktogether! 
Transform your passion  
for science and engineering  
into a career.
Are you a postdoctoral, graduate 
or undergraduate 
student? Enhance 
your education with 
hands-on experience 
in our extensive 
post-doctoral and 
internship programs.   

---------------------------------------------------

October 6, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/sports  A11
SPORTS COMMENTARY
ZEKE ROSENBERG
Staffwriter
At the beginning of the 
semester, I predicted that 
the Tampa Bay Buccaneers 
would signi?cantly improve 
from their under .500 record 
last season and that the New 
Orleans Saints had a chance 
at becoming Super Bowl 
winners. 
After one quarter of the 
2014 NFL season, the jury is 
still out, but these two teams 
have faltered enough to lose 
their spots. Here is a breakdown of what went wrong and 
who takes their places:
Tampa Bay Buccaneers
The Buccaneers struggles 
are not particularly hard to 
explain. Quarterback Josh 
McCown has been less perfect stopgap than just bad. 
Tampa ?gured that much of 
McCowns success in Chicago 
last season could be attributed 
to a receiving corps that towered over opponents, giving 
him throwing lanes over most 
NFL cornerbacks. 
The Bucs replicated that 
group with wide receivers 
Vincent Jackson and Mike 
Evans. Neither of these players has lacked for production 
this year; the offenses struggles fall largely on McCowns 
shoulders. 
Chicago Bears head coach 
Marc Trestman installed a 
very successful offensive system that got a performance 
from McCown unlike any 
previously seen in his lengthy 
NFL career. With the Bucs, 
McCown went back to being 
a replacement-level backup, 
throwing interceptions on six 
percent of his passes, double 
the NFL average this season. 
He even managed to fumble 
and throw an interception on 
the same play.
Unfortunately, a thumb injury ended McCowns season 
earlier than head coach Lovie 
Smith could during week 
three. Backup Mike Glennon 
has been better, but there are 
problems besides McCown.
The defense has been terrible. The league might have 
passed Smith by. The cover 
two defense he employs looks 
unimaginative, and quarterbacks are thwarting it with 
ease. Even with defensive 
tackle Gerald McCoy and defensive end Michael Johnson 
missing time, the performance 
is inexcusable. 
Safety Dashon Goldson 
and cornerback Alterraun 
Verner have both been huge 
disappointments after multiple successful years. Weakside linebacker Lavonte David 
has been pedestrian, a far cry 
from his planet-eating peak 
last season. 
Teams are passing on the 
Bucs with ease and then running through empty boxes 
as the defense adjusts. This 
teams strength from last year 
 the unit that dragged it 
to the lofty ranks of 412  
looks like it might be a disaster 
heading into the year.
Even so, there is cause for 
hope. The Bucs should have 
won week two, when a 10-second runoff stemming from 
a players injury prevented 
them from attempting a gamewinning ?eld goal. 
However, Glennon is only a 
slight upgrade over McCown, 
and Smiths scheme looks 
aged out. The Bucs were thoroughly outplayed in a week 
four victory, and this team is 
bad.
Dallas Cowboys
The Cowboys should take 
this spot. As an 88 team last 
season with a salary cap debacle, no one expected the Cowboys to be good this year. 
The team was punchless 
except for a strong passing offense, and quarterback Tony 
Romo had sustained another 
serious back injury. They had 
nothing left.
The improvement started 
on the offensive side of the 
ball. The Cowboys biggest 
problem last year was game 
management. Romo was 
forced to pass down?eld with 
huge leads. This led to shoddy 
route running by a team that 
had taken its foot off the gas 
pedal, and these broken routes 
led to late-game interceptions.
This year, the Cowboys 
have ?nally discovered that 
they are allowed to run the 
ball. The team has a great 
offensive line, and running 
back DeMarco Murray has improved massively every year. 
He is footballs best running 
back through four weeks, and 
it isnt particularly close. This 
performance is allowing the 
Cowboys to keep their defense 
off the ?eld, retain leads, and 
play winning football. 
Even though Romos back 
injury has turned him from 
a great passer into an erratic 
mess, that is mitigated by the 
overhaul in play calls. 
In a game where running 
the ball is usually a bad idea, 
the Cowboys are constructed 
in a way that it is bene?cial, 
and they ?nally noticed.
The defense has somehow 
been passable as well, with 
castoffs like middle linebacker 
Rolando McClain and defensive tackle Henry Melton performing admirably. Through 
four weeks, the team ranks 
slightly below average by 
Football Outsiders Defensive 
Value Over Average (DVOA) 
and outside of the emergence 
of cornerback Orlando Scandrick, there is not really much 
of note. After last years defensive horror show, slightly 
below average and nothing of 
note is much better. 
The combination of that 
and a humming offense has 
the Cowboys sitting pretty at 
31 and in a position to maybe 
break their seemingly endless 
streak of 88 seasons.
New Orleans Saints
The New Orleans Saints 
have gotten off to an awful 
13 start. After the team had 
a great offense and pass defense last year, it seemed like 
they would return that combination and free safety Jairus 
Byrd would be an improvement over Roman Harper, 
a human manifestation of 
blown coverages.
The offense has been playing well. Its numbers are 
de?ated by a series of rushing teams shortening games 
against the Saints, but theyre 
putting huge numbers on the 
board week after week anyway. Offenses also tend to play 
worse when behind, as risks 
necessary for comebacks lead 
to turnovers.
The defense, on the other 
hand, has been horrible. Outside linebacker Junior Galette 
and defensive end Cameron 
Jordan have not been the terrifying duo many expected. 
Furthermore, the sixth-ranked 
pass defense from last season 
has blown coverage after coverage in the secondary.
It starts with Byrd. It seems 
like former Bills defensive coordinator knew how to maximize Byrds skills in Buffalo, 
as Byrd has looked completely 
lost in Rob Ryans system in 
New Orleans. He is consistently blowing coverages and 
wandering aimlessly through 
the defensive back?eld. Further, he has now been placed 
on injured reserve with a torn 
lateral meniscus ligament. 
Across from corner Keenan 
Lewis, the other corner slots 
have been a nightmare, with 
number two receivers wreaking havoc on the hapless duo 
of Corey White and Patrick 
Robinson. The Saints have 
glaring holes, and theyre easily exploitable. 
That doesnt cut it for 
a team once named a title 
contender.
Cincinnati Bengals
The team initially slated 
to take the Saints spot in the 
contenders column during my 
initial predictions, however, 
was the Cincinnati Bengals. 
Theyre 30 with the bye after four weeks, and theyve 
looked incredible. 
The team is largely the 
same as last years successful 
team, with a very stout pass 
rush and solid secondary, but 
there are three key changes.
First, cornerback Leon 
Halls return has made the 
secondary terrifying. He has 
snuffed out passing plays and 
dominated great passing offenses like the Atlanta Falcons 
and the Baltimore Ravens. 
Second, running back Gio Bernard is a true star. Hes been 
unstoppable over the Bengals 
three games in both receiving 
and running. Third, quarterback Andy Dalton is responding to his contract extension in 
the best possible way. He was 
actually a good quarterback 
when not under pressure, 
but he turned into a quivering mess when the rush broke 
through, despite Cincys excellent offensive line.
This season? Hes actually been pretty solid beating 
the rush. Bernard has thrust 
him into a caretaker role, but 
Dalton is improving the team 
rather than hurting it this season. That could be huge going 
forward. 
If they keep this up, expect a more in-depth breakdown of the NFLs fourth true 
contender.
After Sundays early afternoon games, nothing much 
changed.
The Saints and Buccaneers 
played each other, putting on 
a sloppy performance plagued 
by turnovers, drops, and lazy 
defense.  The ?nal score saw 
New Orleans win in overtime 
after running back Khiry Robinson ran for a touchdown.
New Orleans Saints quarterback Drew Brees was uncharacteristically inconsistent 
when trying to push the ball.  
He threw three interceptions, 
including one on a potentially game-winning drive 
for New Orleans to close out 
regulation.
Mike Glennon played about 
as well as Brees, which is way 
more than the Bucs could have 
hoped for, but neither played a 
particularly good game.
Both defenses faltered, as 
the scoreboard was spinning 
for most of the game.
The Cowboys pulled out an 
overtime win over the Houston Texans, leaning on DeMarco Murray for 136 yards.  
Romo improved on his previously erratic performances 
and completed close to 70 percent of his passes, including 
touchdowns to wide receivers Dez Bryant and Terrence 
Williams.
The Bengals played later in  
the day against the New England Patriots.
NFL preseason predictions: the quarter season review
[DeMarco Murray] is footballs 
best running back through four 
weeks and it isnt particularly 
close.  This performance is 
allowing the Cowboys to keep 
their defense off the ?eld, retain 
leads, and play winning football.
Mens Soccer
The Carnegie Mellon 
mens soccer team started 
their University Athletic Association (UAA) schedule on 
Saturday when they traveled 
to Chicago to face off against 
the University of Chicago Maroons. The two teams each 
came into the game with six 
wins and looked even.
The play on the ?eld con?rmed that, as the two sides 
tied 00 after 20 minutes 
of extra play. Even the box 
scores looked even, with each 
team tallying nine shots.
The heated contest resulted in multiple fouls for both 
team, 20 for the Tartans and 
12 for the Maroons, plus several yellow cards. After only 
one card in the ?rst half, belonging to Chicago, the teams 
combined for four yellows 
in the second half and three 
more in overtime. The cards 
were not just limited to players, as the entire Carnegie 
Mellon team received a yellow in the 70th minute.
Senior goalkeeper Jacob 
Rice recorded his ?rst shutout 
of the season. Rice and the 
Tartans play next on Saturday 
at home against Washington 
in their second UAA match.
Womens Soccer
The No. 4-ranked Carnegie Mellon womens soccer 
team continued their undefeated season as they traveled 
to No. 12-ranked University of 
Chicago to open UAA play.  
     Sophomore forward Megan 
Bartoshuk opened up a lead 
early with a goal, her second 
of the season. Bartoshuks 
goal in the 11th minute came 
off of a cross to the six yard 
box by senior forward Savina 
Reid.
Discontent with only a 
10 lead, the Tartans quickly 
scored again in the 22nd 
minute with ?rst-year Keely 
Jelineks ?rst goal of the season. This time the goal was 
set up off of a corner kick by 
senior Lauren Simicich.
After playing defensively 
for the rest of the match, the 
Maroons ?nally got on the 
board with a goal in the 83rd 
minute. However, this was 
too little too late, as Carnegie 
Mellon won 21.
The Tartans will to push 
to 1000 on Saturday when 
they host the No. 1-ranked 
University of St. Louis.
Volleyball
Traveling to Atlanta, the 
Carnegie Mellon volleyball 
team opened UAA play with 
their ?rst round robin match, 
facing off against Rochester, Case Western, and host 
Emory over the course of the 
weekend.
In their ?rst Saturday 
match, the Tartans played 
Rochester and quickly disposed of their foe, winning 
easily in straight sets. Rochester kept the ?rst set competitive, 2520, before falling off 
and losing the last two 2513 
and 259.
Senior right setter Ali 
Celentano and ?rst-year middle blocker Eliza Donohue 
led the team with seven kills 
apiece, while sophomore defensive setter Molly Higgins 
had a team high 13 digs. 
In the second match of the 
afternoon, Carnegie Mellon 
faced off against rival Case 
Western. This match was a bit 
tougher for the Tartans, but 
they ultimately prevailed 31.
After losing the ?rst two 
sets 2519 and 2521, Case 
Western battled back and took 
the third set 2521 before the 
Tartans squashed any hopes 
of a comeback with a 2513 
fourth set victory. Celentano 
again led the team in with 18 
kills, along with sophomore 
middle blocker Jackie Gibbons and ?rst-year outside 
hitter Heather Holton, who 
scored 16 and 13 kills, respectively. This gave them three 
Tartans with double-digit 
kills. Higgins again played 
great defense, recording 22 
digs, while sophomore setter 
and outside opposite Emily 
Newton had a match high 37 
assists.
On Sunday, the Tartans 
played host Emory. Carnegie 
Mellon came out strong and 
took the ?rst two sets 2725 
and 2519 before dropping 
three straight sets for their 
?rst loss of the weekend, 
1825, 1625, 415. Celentano and Holton led the team 
with kills in the loss with 12 
and 11, respectively, while 
Higgins and sophomore Ivana 
Vlahovic led the team in digs 
with 14 and 10, respectively.
The Tartans next play at 
the Ithaca Tournament on Friday and Saturday.
Compiled by 
CARL GLAZER
SPORTS BRIEFS
Mens Golf
Carnegie Mellon 
Fall Invitational
at Longue Vue Country Club 
Oct. 8, 10 a.m.
Womens Volleyball
Ithaca Tournament
at Ithaca
Oct. 10, 5:30 p.m., 7:30 p.m.
 
Mens Soccer
at Univ. of Chicago
Oct. 11, 11 a.m.
Football
at Bethany
Oct. 11, 2 p.m.
Mens Tennis
vs. Amherst
at Carnege Mellon
Oct. 12, 1 p.m.
Womens Soccer
vs. No. 1 Washington
at Carnegie Mellon
Oct. 4, 2:30 p.m.
Upcoming Events

---------------------------------------------------

thetartan.org/sports  A12 October 6, 2014  The Tartan
ZEKE ROSEBERG
Staffwriter
The Carnegie Mellon football team wrapped up an undefeated home stand against 
Westminster on Saturday to 
pull their record for the season 
to an even 22. After a slow offensive start, Carnegie Mellon 
rode a solid performance by 
their defense and Westminster 
mistakes to an exciting 2724 
win.
The ?rst half opened with 
traded punts, and neither team 
was able to establish much of a 
start offensively. On Westminsters second offensive drive, 
junior outside linebacker Nico 
Comsa jumped a route near 
the Carnegie Mellon sideline 
and returned an interception 
24 yards for a touchdown, setting the tone for a very good 
defensive half for Carnegie 
Mellon. Westminster had one 
threatening drive in the ?rst 
half, but senior defensive 
tackle Johnathan Tanner burst 
into the back?eld and stripped 
the ball, recovering the fumble 
and ending Westminsters possession at Carnegie Mellons 
four-yard line. Outside of that 
drive, Westminster managed 
less than 90 yards of offense in 
the entire half. Due to both the 
swarming defense from Carnegie Mellon and a missed 45-
yard ?eld goal, Westminster 
was unable to get more than a 
?eld goal on the board in the 
?rst half. The Carnegie Mellon 
offense had trouble moving 
the ball as well, and the defensive score accounted for their 
lone points of the ?rst half.
The second half went much 
differently. Westminsters ?rst 
drive of the half went 78 yards 
for a touchdown. The ensuing extra point attempt failed, 
but still gave Westminster a 
97 lead that they would keep 
until Carnegie Mellon pulled 
ahead on a ?eld goal several 
minutes later.
The game sped up from 
that point. Westminster scored 
a touchdown on a pass to the 
corner of the endzone that 
split the Carnegie Mellon secondary. For the two-point conversion attempt, Westminster 
lined up their offensive line all 
the way on the left side of the 
?eld, but the throw came over 
the middle and put Carnegie 
Mellon in a seven-point hole 
with 3:40 left in the third. 
Carnegie Mellon answered 
with a great kick return by 
?rst-year running back Sam 
Benger, setting Carnegie Mellon up at the Westminster 
21. Sophomore running back 
Zach Cree carried the ball 
across the goal line to capitalize on the excellent ?eld position and tied the game at 17.
After a series of traded 
punts, Westminster broke the 
deadlock with just over ?ve 
minutes left in the contest 
with a touchdown pass. Carnegie Mellon answered by going to the hurry-up offense, 
but the drive stalled on the 
Westminster 36-yard line after a turnover on downs. The 
defense remained stout, however, and forced Westminster 
into a three-and-out on the 
following drive, getting Carnegie Mellon the ball back with 
just under three minutes left 
on the clock.
Hearon completed three 
consecutive passes and scrambled to set Carnegie Mellon 
up on the Westminster 25-
yard line, where he delivered 
a strike to ?rst-year wide receiver John Prather in the 
endzone. The pass was broken up by a blatant defensive 
pass interference penalty, setting up Carnegie Mellon with 
the ball on the one yard-line. 
Hearon then completed the 
touchdown pass to senior tight 
end Hayden Cardiff. The extra 
point was good, and the game 
was tied at 21 with 43 seconds 
remaining.
Westminsters attempt at a 
game-winning drive got off to 
a quick start with two straight 
completed passes going out of 
bounds and setting up Westminster at their own 41-yard 
line, not too far off from ?eld 
goal range. The third pass, 
however, ?oated through the 
air and landed directly in the 
hands of junior cornerback 
Ryan Aitken, setting up Carnegie Mellon with excellent ?eld 
position but only 19 seconds 
to try and push the ball for a 
game-winning score.
Carnegie Mellons gamewinning drive did not start 
well. A dropped pass, a short 
run, and a sack set Carnegie 
Mellon up with one second 
left on the clock. The hail 
mary pass was foiled when 
Westminster got into the back?eld and took down Hearon 
for a sack to force overtime, 
but a facemask penalty gave 
Carnegie Mellon 15 yards and 
one untimed down to ?nish 
the game. After initially sending the offense onto the ?eld, 
?rst-year kicker Tyler Kohman 
came out to attempt a 50-yard 
?eld goal to give Carnegie 
Mellon the win.
The kick cut through the 
wind and rain to bounce off 
the cross bar and through, giving Carnegie Mellon a 2724 
win.
The kick came on the heels 
of Kohman winning the Presidents Athletic Association 
Special Teams Player of the 
Week for his excellent punting 
against Geneva College.
The ?eld goal was the longest in Carnegie Mellon 
history.
After winning two nail biters at home, Carnegie Mellon 
football will attempt to keep 
the momentum going when 
it travels to West Virginia to 
face Bethany College next 
Saturday.
Longest CMU ?eld goal ever catapults Tartans to 2724 victory
Mens and womens tennis win all three weekend matches
CARL GLAZER
Senior Staffwriter
This weekend, the Carnegie Mellon mens and womens 
tennis teams both played at 
home at the indoor facility in 
Monroeville.
On Friday, the womens 
team took on Oberlin College 
as it returned to the duel format after last playing in an individual format. 
The Tartans quickly opened 
up a 30 lead in the doubles 
competition with the pairings 
of sophomore Vanessa Pavia 
and ?rst-year Katie Lai, along 
with ?rst-years Stacy Chang 
and Cori Sidell both winning 
their matches 82. 
Seniors Bryn Raschke and 
Angela Pratt had a bit more 
trouble in the ?rst doubles 
spot, needing to go to the tiebreaker before ?nally winning 
98(73).
Carnegie Mellon kept rolling in singles play, going a 
combined 51 with sophomore Nicholle Torres, ?rstyear Kalyani Narayan, Chang, 
and Sidell all winning in 
straight sets. 
Chang and Sidell were particularly impressive, they each 
only dropped one point each 
set as they both won 61, 61.
This marked the end of the 
season for the Tartans, who 
will compete next in February.
The mens team played 
host to Oberlin and Ohio Wesleyan on Saturday. 
In the afternoon against 
Wesleyan, the Tartans came 
out strong, sweeping the doubles play. 
Senior Bryce Beisswanger 
and junior Yuvraj Kumar won 
81 in the number one spot 
while senior Will Duncan and 
sophomore Jack Kasbeer, 
along with sophomores Kunal 
Wadwani and Kenny Zheng, 
won easily, 82 and 83, 
respectively.
The Tartans kept the good 
times going in the singles 
matches, with all six men taking their matches in straight 
sets. Junior Abishek Alla and 
?rst-year Tommy Cheng, were 
the most dominant, each winning their sets 61, 61.
At night, Carnegie Mellon 
hosted Oberlin and kept the 
same momentum from earlier, 
sweeping both doubles and 
singles again. 
Sophomore Kiril Kirkov 
and Wadwani won their 
match 83, while Beisswanger 
and Kumar struggled a bit 
more, ?nishing 74. Kasbeer 
and Duncan needed the tiebreaker 97.
In singles, while it was still 
a straight sweep, it took a bit 
more effort; multiple players needed tiebreakers to win 
their matches.
Alla and Cheng again won 
in straight sets, and were 
matched in that feat by Zheng, 
who had the best play, winning 62, 60.
Carnegie Mellon will compete next on Sunday when 
they host Amherst.
File Photo by Kevin Zheng/Staff Photographer
Sophomore Kunal Wadwani celebrates a point.
Kevin Zheng//Staff Photographer
Top: First-year safety Drew Fitzmorris carries the ball. He was accoladed three times this week for his stellar play in the Tartans previous game. 
Bottom: Sophomore defensive end Jack Fagan makes a tackle. 
File Photo by Kevin Zheng/Staff Photographer
First-year Stacy Chang prepares to return a shot from an opponent.

---------------------------------------------------

VIA Festival
The celebrated multimedia event 
returns to Pittsburgh  B8
Gone Girl 
A review of the new thriller  B7
Seven Guitars
School of Drama opens its season with 
the August Wilson classic  B4
10.06.14 Volume 109, Issue 7

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
Get a quick laugh from this weeks comics.11
Movies
AB Films presents Dawn of the Planet of the 
Apes and Captain Ameirca: Winter Soldier in 
McConomy Auditorium this week.
7
Hot Licks
You should give Thom Yorkes solo album 
Tomorrows Modern Boxes a listen. 
5
The Tartan. Box 119. UC Suite 103. Carnegie Mellon University. 5000 Forbes Ave. Pittsburgh, PA 15213. www.thetartan.org.  2014 The Tartan
PUBLISHER Rachel Cohen EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Braden Kelner
PILLBOX EDITOR Joey Peiser ASSISTANT PILLBOX EDITOR Jenna Bodnar COMICS EDITOR Maryyann Landlord 
ART EDITOR Michelle Wan PHOTO EDITOR Jonathan Leung 
COPY MANAGER James Wu COVER Jonathan Leung
8
345
regulars...
Advice
Everything you need to know about Quidditch 
and being the best roommate you can be.
3
...diversions
...this week only
Desserts
This chocolate caramel souffl will end any 
dinner party with some spectacular fireworks.
3
Seven Guitars
The School of Drama opens their main stage 
season with the August Wilson classic.
4
Bliss
The School of Drama stages a futuristic play 
that falls a bit short.
5
Fashion
Learn how to dress like all the fashionable 
celebrities without maxing your credit card.
6
Gone Girl
The David Fincher-directed thriller is slick and 
suspenseful.
7
VIA
The celebrated independent multi-media 
festival once again returns to Pittsburgh.
8
Puzzles
Midterms may be over, but that doesnt mean 
you cant take a crack at some puzzles.
13
Horoscopes
Nervous about a first date? Dont worry    the 
universe has got your back.
14
Calendar
The hills are alive with the sound of everything 
there is to do this week, in our calendar.
15

---------------------------------------------------

cooking
pillbox 10.06.143
A deliciously delectable dessert
This recipe will make sure you always go out with a bang
The idea of dessert is billed as an afterthought 
 oh and by the way heres some cake  and 
actually is anything but. Its impressive to make an 
elaborate dinner, dont get me wrong. But the true 
measure of becoming a chef, a true cook, worthy of 
the jealousy of your peers and the envy of your exes, 
is literally being able to put the icing on the cake 
and serve them a dessert.
By this time in our lives, no longer are chocolate 
chips and brownies considered to be the measure 
of success. Instead we turn to other desserts, more 
sophisticated, more complicated, more daring. We 
turn to souffls.
Chocolate Caramel Souffl
This is the kind of recipe that you only stumble 
upon every few years. The kind that redefines 
what decadence means to you. The kind that will 
make you realize that you are, without a doubt, the 
classiest, most talented chef in this kitchen. Its rich, 
its smooth, and its damn impressive. Have at it.
1/3 cup of sugar, plus at least another 1/4 cup for 
sprinkling
1 tablespoon of butter, melted
1/2 cup of chocolate (this can be fancy, expensive 
European chocolate or plain old Nestl chips)
3 egg yolks
6 egg whites (I know, I know, extra egg yolks)
Caramel sauce
Note: To really and truly make souffls, you must 
have ramekins (four to six). These are tiny, ceramic 
dishes that will yield the most beautiful, airy souffls 
you have ever seen. You owe it to yourself to have a 
set anyway, so just suck it up and buy some.
1) Preheat the oven to 375 degrees.
 
2) Time to coat the ramekins: Swab them with 
butter, then put some sugar inside of them and 
shake them around to cover them entirely in both 
butter and sugar. I know it seems stupid, but 
actually, its not. The mix will guarantee that the 
souffls rise evenly and smoothly, thus creating 
perfect souffls.
3) Melt your chocolate. Do not do this by sticking 
it in a microwave. Instead, try a double boiler 
technique: Start by boiling some water in a pan. Put 
the chocolate into a glass bowl, then hold the bowl 
above the boiling water until the chocolate starts to 
melt. From there, stir until the chocolate is liquidy 
and smooth.
4) Remove the chocolate from the heat and then stir 
in the egg yolks. Set aside.
5) Beat the egg whites in a mixer until they start to 
form peaks (a fancy way of saying that their texture 
starts to change). This will literally feel like it is 
taking forever. Just stay calm. Start adding the 1/3 
cup of sugar slowly, a little bit at a time, until stiff 
peaks are formed. This will look like meringue. 
6) Pour the chocolate mixture slowly into the egg 
whites. Fold it in gently. 
7) Distribute the mixture among the ramekins. 
Before you bake them, run your finger over the edge. 
Theyll rise better if you smooth out the top.
 
8) Bake them for about 25 minutes, or until theyve 
risen but are still wiggly in the center.
9) Let them cool, then take a spoon and carve a little 
out of the center. Pour some caramel sauce into the 
center and then put the cap back on. 
10) Consume, then die of self-appreciation.
Laura Scherb | Operations Manager
Editors Note: This recipe was inspired in part by 
epicurious.com.
Laura Scherb | Operations Manager
Advice for awkward people
Dear Evan,
One of my best friends 
plays Chaser on the 
universitys Quidditch 
team, but only because 
she didnt make Snitch 
last year. Shes been 
training nonstop  
literally every day since 
then, shes been painting 
herself gold and running 
laps around the football 
field in her underwear 
 tryouts are next week 
so shes been having me 
time her laps and pelt her 
with dodge balls  does 
the Snitch even get pelted 
during real games?
But shes not going to 
get the position  she 
runs like a wounded 
hippogriff, and I cant 
count on two hands and 
feet the number of times 
Ive scored headshots. 
How do I let her down 
slow and make sure she 
doesnt go about the 
same training regimen (or 
worse) this year?
Miserably,
Mostly Offish and 
Reclusive, Except 
Obliging Friends and 
Associates, Regretting 
Ever Disclosing Will to 
Assist Lucy with Lifes 
Fierce Aspiration to run 
Naked
Dear MORE OF A 
REDWALL FAN,
Oh, you wont be able to 
do both. Let her down slow 
and discourage her from 
trying again, I mean. From 
personal experience, avid (a 
mild adjective, considering 
their vehemence) Harry 
Potter fans, particularly 
those who go so far as to 
act out events from the 
books, like Quidditch players 
or LARPing cosplayers, 
have tendencies toward the 
stubborn and the dramatic.
If you value your time and 
sanity, Id skip going easy 
on her and jump straight to 
telling her flat-out that shes 
slow as balls and that she 
should stick to spending 
Saturdays failing to solve 
New York Times crosswords.
RIP Brian Jacques 
(pronounced Jakes, 
apparently),
Evan Kahn
 
Dear Evan,
I always leave my dishes 
in the sink to do later, 
but then I forget to wash 
them, so my roommates 
get mad at me. But I 
really dont want to do the 
dishes. Help?
Lazily yours,
Sometimes Consume 
Unpretentious Meals But, 
Under Constraints, Kip 
Ere Tidying
Dear SCUM BUCKET,
Just make it look like youve 
washed your plates and 
water glasses. Silverware is 
easy  just swipe your fork 
with a soapy sponge once, 
and youre fine. The trick is 
to put in absolutely no effort.
I hope my roommates 
dont think I do this
Evan Kahn
Need advice? Send queries 
to advice@thetartan.org.
About Quidditch and being the best roommate
This choclate caramel souffl will make you the 
envy and hidden desire of everyone you know.

---------------------------------------------------

4theatre
pillbox 10.06.14
Seven Guitars sounds like a painfully literal band name, 
but in this context its the School of Dramas ?rst mainstage production of the season.
Seven Guitars is a relevant and hyperlocal choice for 
this audience: Its written by Pittsburgh-born playwright 
August Wilson and takes place in the Hill District circa 
1948. The crew wastes no opportunity in capitalizing on 
the setting: The exceptional scenic design is fastidiously 
detailed, as School of Drama patrons have grown 
accustomed to seeing.
According to the program, the setting is the backyard 
of 1727 Bedford Avenue, but the scenic design crew 
ran wild with this barebones description. The setup is 
distinctly 3-D, featuring small, convincingly textured 
brick apartment buildings jutting out onto the stage. 
An herb garden packed with soil stretches toward 
the audience, and moss grows in the breaks between 
squares of concrete. A clothesline dips between 
buildings  sheer garments hanging by clothespins 
 illuminated from behind by the suggestion of a 
perpetually glowing distant sun.
As a caveat, the production is exceptionally long: 
Including the intermission, the performance clocks in 
at nearly three hours. If youre viewing an 8 p.m. show, 
dont count on being anywhere else until 11 p.m. or later.
In that respect, the producers might have done more to 
condense the play into a stage-suitable production. The 
scenes are not extraordinary in number, but they are 
long, featuring interchanges of rambling and seemingly 
trivial dialogue between characters. Seven Guitars 
is considered to be August Wilsons ultimate artistic 
catharsis, and the characters mundane ruminations, 
while sometimes tiresome to watch, are important for 
developing characters and setting a historical time and 
place. But the shocking moments of the play  isolated 
spurts of violence  are set so far apart from each other 
that they lose some of their impact. An abridged version 
might have made for a more powerful production.
That said, protracted as they were, the actors 
performances were particularly outstanding, surpassing 
the School of Dramas already high standard for student 
performance. The seven actors rose to the demands 
of incessant, expressive, dialect-heavy and quickly 
delivered dialogue, rarely appearing to falter.
Perhaps the performance of highest note is that of 
senior acting major Mitchell Edwards, who plays Floyd 
Barton. Floyd is an energetic, dreamy, sometimes 
violent character who grapples with his lot as a poor 
black musician on the cusp of a possible record deal 
in Chicago. Edwards seamlessly portrays both Floyds 
uncontainable energy and cheer and his moments of 
explosive frustration. 
His female companion and foil is reserved, skeptical 
Vera (played by senior acting major Johari Mackey), who 
?nds comfort in menial, domestic tasks and constantly 
questions her loyalty to the historically unfaithful Floyd. 
Mackey conveys Veras more private nature but also 
delivers her characters rare but stunning passionate 
outbursts in a quavering, but strong voice. Despite 
the shaky state of their characters relationship, the 
actors have an easy chemistry: Floyd is cheerful and 
affectionate, while Vera is more likely to brush him aside 
 impatient but quietly fond  while gardening or 
cooking.
Other performances are not to be overlooked, 
however. Each character has his or her moment in the 
spotlight, although some may be brief. Senior musical 
theatre major Harron Alexander as railing, distanced, 
unpredictable Hedley dreams aloud about being a 
big man with a carrying, lilting Creole accent. Senior 
musical theatre major Veladya Chapman is perfectly 
hysterical, mothering, and no-nonsense as Louise. And 
though she makes a late entrance, senior musical theatre 
major Alexis Floyd playing Louises niece Ruby makes 
her presence known, with her piercing voice, big-booty 
walk, and surprising emotional complexity. More minor 
characters Canewell (senior musical theatre major Jean 
Floradin) and Red Carter (senior musical theatre major 
Erron Crawford) are similarly dynamic, their portrayals 
?uid and colorful despite their supporting roles.
Its important to note that the seven-person cast is 
entirely non-white. Though the audience isnt privy 
to casting decisions or the pool from which actors are 
selected, it is a notable choice, especially considering 
that the program ruminates on colorblind casting. 
The cast works seamlessly together and spares us the 
suspension of disbelief involved in ?tting a white actor 
into a non-white role.
Another surprising but important quality to all the actors 
is vocal talent. Vocal music is an integral component to 
Seven Guitars: The play begins and ends in song, and 
we hear every characters voice, however brie?y, at one 
point or another. Its used as a vehicle for the emotional 
content of signi?cant scenes. At the plays beginning, 
Louise breaks the ice with a jokey, improvised tune. 
Later, Floyd offers a chilling, thought-stirring solo seated 
with his suddenly solemn friends. Hedley ends the play 
with a heartbreaking, voice-cracking repetition of a folk 
tune.
Seven Guitars is one of the best displays of sheer student 
skill youll see on the School of Drama stage, and its 
thought provoking to boot. Just be sure to bring a snack 
and a friend to supplement the long ?rst act.
Rachel Cohen | Publisher
Photo courtesy of Louis Stein
Senior acting majors Mitchell Edwards (Floyd) and Johari Mackey (Vera) are two standout performers from the 
School of Dramas season-opening production of August Wilsons Seven Guitars.
Seven Guitars kicks off Drama season
August Wilsons classic play about racial tension features stellar performances

---------------------------------------------------

theatre
pillbox 10.06.145
Hot Licks
Tomorrows Modern Boxes
Well, lets hope he ?nally got it out of his system.
Thom Yorkes solo work and work with Atoms for Peace 
(which you could call another Yorke solo project) have 
always reminded me of creators that came out of warp 
records in the late 90s.
Being a long time Radiohead fanboy, I have a love/hate 
relationship with Yorkes solo work  in that I love it on 
its own but hate its in?uence on Radioheads more recent 
albums.
Yorkes new album Tomorrows Modern Boxes makes 
me think the sound that Yorke has been chasing ever 
since Kid A has ?nally come to life. Odd time signatures 
complemented by atmospheric and spacious vocal 
melodies dominate the album.
If youre a fan of Bonoboo, ambient Aphex twin, or even 
SBTRKT, I would give this album a listen.
Tim Fitzgerald | Junior Staffwriter
Bliss doesnt live up to its name
School of Drama production suffers from a confusing plot
After feeling trapped in a kaleidoscope at Studio 
205 during one of the School of Dramas productions 
last year, I was a little apprehensive about going 
to another show in which technology would be 
so heavily featured. I took comfort in the fact that 
it would be in the Rauh Theatre of Purnell  a 
quick getaway should I want to escape during 
intermission.
Unfortunately, Bliss had no intermission.
This play is about Rein, an engineer who invents a 
time-travel machine and accidentally teleports from 
Moscow in the 20th century to Moscow in the 23rd 
century with a geriatric apartment supervisor and 
a kleptomaniac. They end up in a classless, utopian 
society called Bliss, but conflict still arises as the trio 
of main characters explore the new world.
There are many achievements worth mentioning in 
this production. For one, it was a fairly successful 
attempt at comedy, a genre the School of Drama 
historically hasnt explored too often. As always, 
the cast was incredibly talented; senior musical 
theatre major Annie Yokom (Bunsha) was especially 
delightful to watch.
The costumes demonstrated a stunning attention to 
detail that brought characters to life, and the dialinspired stage design was a powerful, yet subtle, 
allusion to the theme of time. The choices to switch 
the genders of the characters and to integrate cast 
members into the physical setting were bold and 
effective.
Most importantly, though, there was a refined use 
of technology. Instead of distracting from or being 
the foundation of the show, the use of projections 
 with the exception of a few scattered instances 
that felt slightly forced  served to enhance the 
production by bringing the setting into the future.
Unfortunately, none of these redeeming factors could 
make up for the fact that, whether lost in translation 
from the page to the stage or butchered by cuts, 
the plot was an unbearable jumble. One minute, the 
audience watched pickpocket Miloslavskaya recite 
poetry for a party; the next, it suffered through a 
garbled scene of drunken tomfoolery. Transitions 
were completely lacking, which left performers 
charging through scenes as if they were walking 
through a swamp, focused only on getting out.
In his playbill note, junior dramaturg Jordan 
Sucher emphasizes the machinery of society as 
a construct in the play; however, while there are 
symbols of a totalitarian regime (e.g. everyone wore 
white in the future, and movements, including 
greetings and kisses, were rigidly defined) 
everywhere, the atmosphere created was anything 
but. Again, the mess of a plot made it impossible to 
enjoy the show.
Bliss began with the illusions of time and choice 
resonating as clear themes meant to criticize 
philosophies that encourage people to follow 
blindly without thinking for themselves and without 
justifying their own actions, as Sucher says in the 
program, and had all the right components to be 
successful. But as a result of the inherently poor 
script, it disintegrated into a mind-numbingly vapid 
romance that made no substantial commentary on 
past, present, or future society and only offered true 
bliss when it ended.
Vira Shao | Junior Staffwriter
 Photo courtesy of Jordan Harrison
Senior acting major Kelsey Carthew portrayed 
engineer Rein in the School of Dramas production 
of Mikhail Bulgakovs Bliss, staged last week in 
the Rauh Theatre in Purnell.
Photo courtesy of Erwin Morales via Flickr

---------------------------------------------------

6fashion
pillbox 10.06.14
While Ive written about celebrity fashion multiple times, 
I usually write about being inspired by stars styles in 
general, rather than their speci?c pieces of clothing. 
Sometimes, however, stars wear out?ts that are so lovely 
that we just have to copy them. Not all of us can buy the 
exact same clothes as celebrities, so the best thing we 
can do is ?nd out?ts that are really similar. Luckily for us, 
most stores copy styles similar to what celebrities wear, 
so it isnt dif?cult to imitate their styles. Here are a few 
ideas for how to get some popular celebrities styles for 
less!
Heres a jacket worn by Emma Watson, who has recently 
gained a lot of attention for making a speech about 
gender equality for the UN General Assembly as a UN 
Ambassador.
The out?ts that she makes using this jacket are typical 
of Watsons polished and classic, yet somewhat edgy, 
style. For instance, she has paired a similar jacket with 
a simple black skirt from the brand Theory, a cashmere 
sweater from the brand Equipment, black tights, and 
short black boots from the brand 3.1 Phillip Lim. She has 
used the black leather jacket as the statement piece of 
her out?t, along with a simple gold pendant necklace. 
While the brand of Watsons leather jacket is unknown, a 
jacket with a similar ?t and belt can be found at Topshop 
for $136. A gray sweater or a nice blouse can be bought 
anywhere, such as H&M or Forever 21. And the same 
goes for a black mini skirt, since this is a basic piece that 
most stores should carry. As for black boots, 3.1 Phillip 
Lim ones that Watson wears are approximately $525, 
but Lucky Brands Bartalino Stud Embossed Leather 
Booties are only $99.95 and are about the same.
Another notable celebrity who has been relatively
scandal-free and known for her incredible style is Blake 
Lively. Shes best known for being one of the stars on 
Gossip Girl, but is currently better known for her interest 
in fashion and lifestyle. Her style on a day-to-day basis 
can be described as Bohemian-chic, and is illustrated by 
the out?t to the right.
This out?t can be dressed up or dressed down, and
like Emma Watsons out?t, can be copied with just a 
few basics. The loose-?tted white T-shirt can be found 
anywhere, but the pants are the statement piece of the 
out?t. Grab yourself a pair of printed pants from Free 
People, such as the Star Crossed Crop Pant for $98. Pair 
these pieces with a pair of black ballet ?ats to dress the 
out?t down or black heels to dress it up, and youre good 
to go!
Although the Kardashians are pretty unpopular among 
most people, one of the younger members of the family, 
Kendall Jenner, is well known for her fashion. She has 
modeled in Fashion Weeks around the world, has her 
own fashion line with her sister Kylie, and sometimes 
appears in the well-known TV show Keeping Up with 
the Kardashians. Jenners style is also very simple and 
polished. 
Jenner has a classic black leather jacket; ou can ?nd 
a similar one from Topshop for only $110, which is 
relatively less than what Jenners original would cost. A 
?tted gray T-shirt and dark skinny jeans can complete 
the look, but the main pieces in her out?t are the shoes. 
She has worn printed ballet ?ats that add interest to her 
out?t, as well as 3.1 Phillip Lim calf hair ?ats, which are 
approximately $142. Compare that to the BP Moveover 
Pointy Toe ?at from Nordstrom for only $59.95, which 
looks exactly the same, and you could get this look for 
much less.
As you can see, most celebrity styles consist of basic 
pieces that can be found anywhere, with one statement 
piece for which a cheaper copy is easily accessible. For 
this reason, copying a celebritys style is a great way
to spice up your wardrobe without spending too much, 
since you probably have basic pieces. Just buying one 
new item of clothing can create a whole new look.
Nikita Mishra | Staffwriter
Dress like the stars for a reasonable price
Three out?ts from the it-girls of fashion, and how to cheaply replicate them in your closet
Blake Livelys style is much more Bohemian than 
Watsons or Jenners. Here, she dresses up a pair of 
funky blue and white polka dot pants with a flowy 
white T-shirt with simple black heels and a lovely bag.
Courtesy of imnotobsessed.com
Emma Watson is quite the polished and classy 
dresser, pictured here wearing a casual blouse with an 
edgy jacket. Her style can be cheaply 
replicated very easily.
Courtesy of David Shankbone via Flickr

---------------------------------------------------

films
pillbox 10.06.147
Gone Girl opens with the back of a blond head being 
caressed by a mans hands. The head obviously belongs 
to a beautiful and elegant woman, resting on the chest of 
her loving and doting husband. Suddenly, the husbands 
(Ben Af?ecks) thoughts are introduced via voice-over: 
What are you thinking? How are you feeling? What have 
we done to each other? These fundamental questions 
will undoubtedly haunt the rest of the ?lm.
He keeps caressing the golden strands of his wifes hair, 
as his thoughts turn darker: I imagine cracking open 
her head, unspooling her brain, trying to get answers. 
His wife (Rosamund Pike) turns to him with a look of 
concern, almost as if she has heard his thoughts as 
the screen fades to black and the unraveling of their 
marriage begins.
Based on Gillian Flynns novel, Gone Girl is about a wife 
who goes missing in the midst of a troubled marriage. 
The premise seems simple and intriguing, but Flynn 
dives into a story of dark complexity thats drenched in 
tension and suspense so much so that the novel has 
spent over 79 weeks on The New York Times Best Seller 
list and has sold over 6 million copies. So when a ?lm 
adaptation was announced with director David Fincher 
(Fight Club, The Social Network) aboard, many people 
were not only aware of the plot twists that the movie 
entails, but also held a certain set of expectations.
In short: The ?lm de?nitely holds up. With the screenplay 
adapted by Gillian Flynn herself, the ?lm is loyal to the 
plot of the novel while offering a deliciously slick account 
of a marriage gone horribly wrong as Nick Dunne 
(Af?eck) ?nds his Missouri McMansion in carefully 
crafted disarray as his wife, Amy Elliot Dunne (Pike), is 
nowhere to be found. The ?lm immediately alternates 
between the contradictory narratives of Nick and Amy, 
as Nick struggles to adjust to the national attention of his 
case while Amy details their tenuous marriage through 
her diary entries.
Fincher exhibits a superb craft in ?lmmaking. The 
?lm is slick and suspenseful, carefully building up in 
moments when we dont know whos guilty of what. The 
restrained ambience of the ?lm heightens the audiences 
fear that some characters are not as good as they seem, 
as they meticulously mask their more depraved selves 
from the public.
Fincher and Flynn understand and show that Gone Girl is 
more than a murder mystery. It presents a distorted view that 
crushes the overly idyllic and abstract idea of marriage.
Of course, marriage is hard, hard work. In marriage, 
you are annoyed with or may even resent your spouse, 
but spouses have to learn to work and even ?ght 
productively. 
Through the ups and downs, husband and wife will be 
able to make it work and love each other even more as 
they get to know each other more. Marriage turns many 
spouses into better people; for Nick and Amy Dunne, 
thats not the case. The more they resent each other, 
the less they realize they know each other. Gone Girl 
dissects the marriage of two inherently sel?sh people 
and, despite whether they are inherently good or evil, 
they were meant for each other.
Til death do they part.
Andie Park | Staffwriter
Gone Girl offers a slick, suspenseful ride
Film stays true to the novel while diving into an intriguing mystery of marriage gone wrong
Meredith Newman | Junior Staffwriter
If youre into seeing a movie about monkeys taking over the world, then 
I ?gure you would let a toddler cut your hair or learn English from So?a 
Vergara. But such a seemingly laughable premise as that seen in Dawn 
of the Planet of the Apes can always be redeemed with an unfathomable 
amount of CGI. Dawn of the Planet of the Apess apes fall between 2001: 
A Space Odyssey chimps and Curious George  meaning the monkeys 
in Dawn of the Planet of the Apes are so realistically unreal the viewer 
may not be able to connect to the apes, which lengthens the already 
time-consuming movie. However, with that said, the movie is able to 
maintain the appearance of a thought-out and organized symphony of 
moving parts. In conjunction with the actors, the apes turn out to deliver 
great performances, interacting with humans and a post-apocalyptic 
setting. As a follow up to the reboot of Rise of the Planet of the Apes, 
Dawn of the Planet of the Apes is a solid ?lm worth seeing that will make 
you leave McConomy saying, Yeah, theyll make a third one.
Dawn of the Planet of the ApesCaptain America: The Winter Soldier
Saturday, Oct. 11
8, 11 p.m.
Continuing this weeks theme of sequels, Captain America: The Winter 
Soldier is playing this Saturday. Three words: action, drama, and muscles. 
Unlike the ?rst movie (and most sequels out now), this movie jumps ahead 
almost 70 years into the future. It starts out kind of where The Avengers left 
off, but that does not automatically exclude people who have not seen the 
epic movie involving most of Marvels popular superheroes. (Sorry Green 
Lanterns Ryan Reynolds, you didnt make the cut.) This shield-toting 
superhero sequel doesnt require the viewer to have seen the original. 
Many new characters (and bromances) are introduced, as well as old 
recognizable characters. Like any Marvel superhero movie, the action is 
superb. Between the car chases, awesome shield-swinging skillz (yes, with 
a z), and ?ghting sequences, this movie really solidi?es the superhero 
genre as one to be taken seriously.
moviesinmcconomy
McConomy Auditorium, University Center
Maegha Singh | Staff Artist
Friday, Oct. 10
8, 11 p.m.
Sunday, Oct. 12
8 p.m.

---------------------------------------------------

music
pillbox 10.06.1498music
pillbox 10.06.14
 
VIA, the world-renowned multimedia music festival, 
once again returned to Pittsburgh last week, ?lling every 
nook and cranny of the city with music, experimental 
art, and other events from Oct. 15. The festival, which 
has been a staple of the Pittsburgh cultural calendar 
since 2010, expanded to include a simultaneous event in 
Chicago this year, demonstrating the success VIA has 
had in its hometown.
Venues across the city hosted events, so it was virtually 
impossible to hit every event, unless you are one of 
the many Carnegie Mellon students who seem to have 
a time-turner. We at Pillbox threw our lot in with the 
following events, and found out a couple of things, such 
as crowds of hipsters are incredibly boring and theres no 
bloodlust like video game bloodlust. We also heard some 
music  some of it good, some of it not so good  and 
have decided to share our experiences so those of you 
who couldnt attend the festival can do so vicariously 
through our carefully crafted words.
Real Estate  Wednesday
In the world of indie surf pop, VIA headliner Real Estate 
is one of the rising stars. Performing their headlining 
set on the festivals opening night on Wednesday at the 
Altar Bar, the band proved their growing skills as a live 
act.
Each release since 2009s self-titled Real Estate has built 
upon their growing momentum. On the heels of their 
most recent album, Atlas, Real Estate has grown into an 
independent headliner, taking top slots at the Pitchfork 
Music Festival and, it goes without saying, the VIA 
Festival, among others. The effect of the groups growing 
popularity could be felt in the room  newer songs such 
as Talking Backwards and Its Real were some of the 
few moments when the largely stoic crowd began to lose 
themselves. But thats okay, because Real Estate isnt a 
band that inspires passion, but relaxation.
To attend a Real Estate show is to go under hypnosis; 
the soft and bright guitars ?oat gently above the rolling 
sea of grooving bass and steady, controlled drums. 
Singer Martin Courtneys vocals, cloaked in a warm 
blanket of reverb, sound like distant echoes of thoughts 
shouting from the back of your brain.
Songs like the meandering Green Aisles and the 
wistful, lazy jaunt Beach Comber felt like a pleasant 
dream performed live. In fact, the rowdiest the crowd 
got all night was after the band left the stage. The entire 
room erupted in impassioned cheers for the band to 
return, violently eager for the mellow vibes to be brought 
back.
If theres one thing to be said about Real Estates fan 
base, its that theyre a pretty homogenous bunch. 
Walking into their show, a visitor couldnt help but shield 
their eyes from the oppressive sameness of a room full 
of people in their mid- to late 20s. The men wore beards 
and vintage zip-up hoodies, and the womens earrings 
dangled against their necks, their glasses had frames 
that stretched above their eyebrows.
Having come from the same ?ve-mile radius as the band 
members, Real Estate has always been a group close 
to my heart. Ever since hearing the name whispered 
around Ridgewood, N.J. coffeehouses, each new height 
of success they reach serves as a little reminder that 
even if you think you come from nowhere, that doesnt 
mean you cant be someone. Ive said it before and Ill 
say it again; Real Estate sounds like how it feels to grow 
up in New Jersey. And thats what made the show a little 
personal. For an hour and ?fteen minutes, it was nice to 
feel like I was back home in Jersey  except without all 
the fear and loathing that comes with living there.
Liturgy, Deafheaven  Thursday
Let me preface this by saying that I have nothing against 
the metal genre  as a young guitar player, I marveled 
at the intricate song structures and lightning-fast ?nger 
work of virtuosos such as Metallicas Kirk Hammet and 
Slayers Kerry King. Is Rob Zombies Greatest Hits CD in 
my car? Yes it is. Does it get played? Only at maximum 
volume.
That all being said, Thursday nights performances at 
the Rex Theater from black metal bands Liturgy and 
Deafheaven just didnt do much for me. The bands 
(seemingly) performed well, but the sounds of each 
individual instrument just blended into a disorienting 
cacophony. There was no way to distinguish what each 
player (except the drummer) was playing, so I found 
myself unable to establish a connection with the music.
Liturgys songs all sounded like a great crescendo that 
never opened up into anything  the music never felt 
like it was allowed to run free. You know how at the 
end of a concert, a band will start making noise on 
their instruments and theyll hold it and hold it, and 
VIA multimedia music festival returns to the Burgh
Internationally renowned festival ?lls Pittsburgh with music, music nerds, and crazy media
Deafheaven, known for their brand of melodic deathmetal, played a headlining set at the Rex Theater in 
Southside on Thursday as part of the VIA Festival. 
Lead singer George Clarke was particularly energetic.
            Jonathan Leung | Photo Editor
by Joey Peiser & Sid Bhadauria []
the tension will rise, until they ?nally all stop at the 
same time? Well Liturgy sounded like that moment, just 
stretched for an entire set.
Deafheaven, known for their brand of melodic 
deathmetal which has helped garner them a decent 
amount of attention and critical respect in musical 
circles far-removed from typical metal heads, gave a bit 
more to chew on. Their use of visuals was particularly 
striking; psychedelic illustrations and animations 
?ashed on a series of disjointed screens behind them, 
often moving in near-perfect time to the music. Lead 
singer George Clarke was energetic and engaged with 
the crowd well. There were also some very peaceful 
moments during songs when the rest of the band would 
drop out and guitarist Kerry McCoy would play some 
very beautiful and melodic guitar interludes bathed in 
lush reverb. But these moments were always followed by 
a sudden assault of screaming and distortion, like biting 
your tongue while chewing on a piece of sweet candy.
All wouldve been well and good if the atmosphere had 
been a more physical one. But Deafheaven and Liturgy 
are deathmetal for the Pitchfork-reading, Brooklynpilgrimaging crowd. This was perhaps the only place one 
would be able to see tattooed biker girls wearing KISS 
Army denim jackets adorned with pentagrams standing 
next to pencil-thin hipsters wearing stiff collared shirts 
and precisely-trimmed beards  and almost none of them 
were moving. Given a recent hand injury, I was expecting 
to have to stand in the back, away from the ?ailing limbs 
and outpouring energy common at performances of 
aggressive music. Instead, I was in the thick of the crowd, 
and the circulation cut off from having my hand tucked 
into my armpit caused the only pain.
VIA Music Conference  Friday
Friday saw the VIA Music Conference, hosted in the 
CFA Studio for Creative Inquiry, arrive on Carnegie 
Mellons campus. The entire day was stacked with 
lectures and demonstrations of electronic equipment, 
such as Ableton Live. The day concluded with an audio 
visual performance by Richard Devine and Hector 
Llanquin.
Michael Johnsen opened the performance with a set 
of his electronic music. Johnsen got his start working 
in ?lms before leaving to build his own electronics. A 
large, friendly-looking man in Ben Franklin spectacles, 
he sat on the stage surrounded by a mess of wires and 
gadgets that resembled the ?oor of a budding computer 
engineers bedroom.
The sounds that emitted from his performance were 
interesting  a mix of watery bass and clicks, whistles, 
and scratches. There didnt seem to be any discernible 
pattern, but Johnsens deliberate movements certainly 
suggested otherwise. At times the sounds were 
engaging, but often the cacophony sounded like a 
chainsaw revving in a slaughterhouse where all the 
animals know exactly whats in store for them.
In my opinion, the main event did not fare much better.
Llanquins visuals were certainly striking  his surrealist 
landscapes of geometric shapes and patterns were very 
well rendered, and successfully created a sense that one 
was ?oating through another world. The Chilean artist 
has worked with multiple formats, including movies and 
video games, and this varied in?uence was certainly 
apparent.
Devine prefaced his audio performance 
with an admission that he had encountered 
a host of technical dif?culties, including 
some broken equipment, prior to the 
performance. If something catches on ?re, 
well, thats the end of the performance, he 
joked.
Devines sounds werent much different 
from Johnsens in terms of aesthetic. 
Industrial and angry screeches emitted 
from the speakers with an eardrum busting 
ferocity. It was hard to feel anything but 
discomfort listening to them, and I couldnt 
help but wonder whether the music was 
really the result of Satan possessing an old 
Windows 95 machine.
Continue to page 10 for more.
Jonathan Leung | Photo Editor
Liturgy frontman, and grandson of Texas 
oil tycoon H.L. Hunt,  Hunter Hunt-Hendrix 
matches a very soft-spoken demeanor 
with a near-devilish stage presence.
Jonathan Leung | Photo Editor
 
 
Fifth Avenue Homes and Estates 
 
Purchase Your Home   ~   Sell Your Home 
 
Serving the University Community for 
 all their Real Estate Needs 
 
 www.FifthAvenueHomesAndEstates.com  
 
 www.PittsburghRealestate888.com    
 
 
412-683-3333 
Attendees of Saturday nights event at the historic 
Union Trust Building could participiate in interactive 
projects, such as the Oculus Rift experience.

---------------------------------------------------

10music
pillbox 10.06.14
Union Trust Building  Saturday
VIA culminated at the Union Trust Building on Saturday 
night, Oct. 4. The events theme was audiovisual 
experiences in the modern world, with an art exhibit 
on the ?rst ?oor showcasing various technologies, and 
the club below, featuring acts performing accompanied 
by visual displays. The performances ranged from local 
independent acts to a welcome host of LGBTQ rappers.
The audiovisual experience began with the art gallery 
on the ?rst ?oor, where two video games, showcased 
on large projection screens, were available to play. The 
?rst game, called Dog Park, allowed four players  each 
playing a roughly 3-D animated dog in a park  to 
simply kill the other dogs. The players virtual avatars 
joyously ripped each other apart, the blood and the 
gore of the display contrasting with the low-resolution 
graphics ripped straight from a Wii game, numbers 
popping out of the dogs heads as they feasted on 
each other. Players of the game seemed remarkably 
invested, whooping when they managed to knock down 
another dog and maul its defenseless form. Thinking 
back to all the hundreds of faceless human avatars Ive 
killed in games like Halo or Call of Duty, I became fairly 
unsettled by the display and turned my attention to the 
other game on displaya charming four-player indielooking game with simple cartoonish graphics where 
the objective was to cooperate to use an onscreen avatar 
(imagine Catdog, except with human torsos at either 
end) to wrap themselves around a red ball. Both teams 
of two used their own avatars, and the video game 
did a good job of displaying the mediums power as a 
social accelerator. Completely random strangers were 
laughing and cooperating as they had to work together 
to maneuver their avatar around the ball while fending 
off the other team. It seemed that the exhibit served to 
showcase both the negative and positive potential of the 
gaming medium.
Other art exhibits were also on the ground ?oor of the 
Union Trust Building  all ?tting within the theme 
of digital art. One such exhibit was an audiovisual 
movie consisting of YouTube clips. The clips were 
all extremely surreal, the weird part of YouTube for 
those unfortunate enough to be familiar with the term. 
Intriguing at ?rst, each individual clip went on for far too 
long and the exhibit got rather old after a while. Another 
rather interesting exhibit worked within the new ?eld 
of augmented reality. Visitors aimed an iPad camera 
at certain VIA posters arranged around the room and 
saw a 3-D graphic pop up. The graphics were very low 
resolution and looked ripped from a video game circa 
2001, but the exhibit succeeded in its goal to show an 
indication of what could be. The graphics moved and 
had a variety of effects, and perhaps more amazing, 
they even changed their pro?le if looked at from 
different angles, behaving like real objects. With new 
technologies such as Google Glass and Oculus Rift all 
slowly becoming realities, the augmented reality that the 
exhibits makers put on display may not be that far away.
The main attractions of the festival were, of course, the 
musical acts in the basement. A host of independent 
artists performed on two stages, with an array of screens 
displaying accompanying visuals. The visual displays 
rarely had anything to do with the acts and didnt really 
contribute to the experience. In fact, the additional light 
from the display worked against the enjoyment of the 
concerts, as it was already too bright in the basement 
even without the gigantic displays. 
In any case, the acts themselves varied in quality. The 
array of LGBTQ rap performances unfortunately fell 
?at. Between muddy mixing, poor ?ow, and beats that 
werent particularly enjoyable (or danceable in any way), 
the performances were sub-par.
Other artists, however, did a commendable job.
Independent act Blue Hawaii, for example, was 
particularly enjoyable. Lead singer Raphaelle StandellPrestons beautiful voice and impressive mixing and 
looping, worked to create a well-rounded set even 
though the underlying beats were rather boring. There 
were stretches when the set dragged, but to Blue 
Hawaiis credit, they did a good job of mixing up the 
?ow and the sound of their performance. The energy of 
the crowd itself was rather sporadic. For every person 
tangibly contributing to the energy of the ?eld, there 
were many more just standing around, which sort of 
dampened the experience.
Overall, the event was fairly enjoyable. Some of the art 
exhibits, the virtual reality exhibit in particular, were 
cool to experience. The acts themselves were hit and 
miss, but if the festival comes around again, Pittsburgh 
citizens should consider going just for the sheer volume 
and diversity of acts.Zebra Katz performed with visuals from Kevin 
Ramser at Saturdays event.
Jonathan Leung | Photo Editor
Jonathan Leung | Photo Editor
Cities Aviv played a set accompanied by visuals 
from Johnny Woods at Saturdays event.
Jonathan Leung | Photo Editor
Cakes Da Killa struts his stuff during his  
performance at Saturdays main event, which was 
accompanied by visuals from Yoshi Sodeoka.

---------------------------------------------------

comics
pillbox 10.06.1411
Extra Ordinary by Li Chen
email@exocomics.comexocomics.com
California by xkcd
press@xkcd.comxkcd.com

---------------------------------------------------

12comics
pillbox 10.06.14
Skeletons in the Closet by Alex Culang and Raynato Castro
buttersafe@gmail.com  www.buttersafe.com

---------------------------------------------------

puzzles
pillbox 10.06.1413
Solutions from Sept. 29
CrosswordHard DifficultyTough Difficulty
Kakuro Puzzle: Tough Difficulty Sudoku Puzzle: Super Tough Difficulty
Sudoku courtesy of www.krazydad.comKakuro courtesy of www.krazydad.com
Fill all empty squares using numbers 1 to 9 so the sum of 
each row equals the clue on its left. No number may be 
used in the same row or column more than once.
Fill all empty squares using numbers 1 to 9. No number may 
be used in the same row or column more than once.

---------------------------------------------------

14horoscopes
pillbox 10.06.14
 1. T.G.I.F. part
 2. Dip in liquid
 3. Fail to tell the truth
 4. Menu words
 5. Paris thanks
 6. ___ extra cost
 7. Internet writing system that popularized 
pwn3d and n00b
 8. Morse element
 9. Bone: Prefix
10. Fine fur
11. Broadcasting
12. Plants with fronds
13. ___ Grows in Brooklyn
21. Old Ford
22. Breastbones
23. 1,000 kilograms
24. Fool
25. Shoulder muscles, briefly
26. Make beer
30. Patriot Allen
31. ___ Rica
32. Put a new price on
33. Time to remember
35. Cook just below the boiling point
37. Essential
38. Habituate 
39. Be of one mind
41. Overtime cause
42. Bummer
47. Chow down
49. Went after
50. Banishment
51. Dined at home
52. Guides
54. Head supporters
56. Soup with sushi
57. Rapper born Tracy Marrow
58. Trim
59. He sang about Alice
63. Former nuclear agcy.
64. Classical beginning
65. GI mail drop
66. D-Day craft
 1. Religion of the Muslims
 6. Designer Gucci
10. Couch
14. Sheer fabric
15. Afternoon affairs
16. Work without ___
17. Chucked weapon
18. Treehouse used by birds
19. Roseanne, once
20. Laundry rope
23. Delicate morsel of food
27. Curt
28. Baltic feeder
29. Formal order
34. Frasiers brother
36. Its human
37. By way of
40. In spite of
43. Aliens, for short
44. Mazda model
45. Pianist Rubinstein
46. Household
48. Swiss river
49. Bobby of the Black Panthers
53. The Ice Storm director
55. Destroy
60. ___ yellow ribbon...
61. Bakery employee
62. Artificial waterway
67. Put ___ on it!
68. Marine mammal, secure 
something
69. Retains
70. Sawbucks
71. Conductor Klemperer
72. Go swiftly
ACROSSDOWN
Horoscopes
aries
march 21april 19
Bring out some action! Get tickets to a sporting event, go 
bowling, or take a walk together. If you want romance to 
spark, keep it moving and exciting.
taurus
april 20may 20
If you cant afford a fancy restaurant, come with some 
flowers and offer your arm. Bring your date to a homey, 
comfortable restaurant. Walk slowly and attentively to show 
you care.
gemini
may 21june 21
Your date is smart, but has a short attention span. The 
theater, movies, or a dinner party will give your date the 
entertainment factor he or she needs.
cancer
june 22july 22
Tough on the outside, your date is actually quite sensitive 
and caring on the inside. But you wont get to see this 
quality for a long time. Do something sincere that will really 
show that you pay attention.
leo
july 23aug. 22 
Make an extra effort with your appearance and make 
plans to have a great shared laugh. Humor and having fun 
together builds strong bonds.
virgo
aug. 23sept. 22
Your date loves art, music, and romance. Take a romantic 
walk near a park where you can catch the sunset together.
libra
sept. 23oct. 22
Your date enjoys unique experiences. A vintage car show 
or a jazz concert could be just the right thing to start a 
romantic night.
scorpio
oct. 23nov. 21
Give your date lots of eye contact to break that shy 
boundary. Compliments and kind words are always 
welcome.
sagittarius
nov. 22dec. 21
Make plans to go to a wine-tasting event or local festival. 
Spice up your night with a nice reservation at a classy 
restaurant.
capricorn
dec. 22jan. 19
Your fine date has high standards, so give him or her an 
evening that shows you know what youre doing. Take note 
of the weather so you dont get caught in an unexpected 
storm.
aquarius
jan. 20feb. 18
Quirky and humorous, your date embraces spontaneity. 
Check out local listings for performance art or poetry 
readings.
pisces
feb. 19march 20
A flea market would tickle your date. Trust him or her to find 
a good bargain or check out some weird items being sold.
Maryyann Landlord | Comics Editor
Crossword courtesy of BestCrosswords.com
First Date Decisions 

---------------------------------------------------

calendar
pillbox 10.06.1415
Tuesday 10.7.14
Apple Fest. Merson Courtyard. 11 a.m.  6 p.m.
Its a fall celebration. Therell be fresh apples and apple 
products, a farmers market, live music, food tastings, 
and more. Admission is free and open to all members of 
the campus community.
Kelly Richardson. Kresge Theatre. 5 p.m.
Richardson, recognized as one of the leading 
representatives of a new generation of artists working 
with digital technologies to create hyper-real and highly 
charged landscapes, will be discussing her work and 
methods. Admission is free and open to the public.
Thursday 10.9.14
Alex Ross. McConomy Auditorium. 7 p.m.
Alex Ross, a regular contributor to the New Yorker on 
topics of classical music, 20th-century history, gay life, 
and more, will be presenting a lecture titled Phonograph 
Music: Composers and the Early Era of Reproduction. 
Admission is free and open to the public.
Friday 10.10.14
Neurons and Other Memories opening. Miller Gallery. 
5:30 p.m.
Neurons and Other Memories features investigations, 
translations, and re?ections of neural mechanisms by 
artists and neuroscientists. The opening reception will last 
until 7:30 p.m. Admission to the Miller Gallery is free and 
open to the public.
Spanish Strings. Heinz Hall. 7:30 p.m.
The Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra welcomes Israeli 
conductor Omer Meir Wellber as he leads them in 
Tchaikovskys Manfred Symphony, based on Lord Byrons 
story of the tortured Manfred as he wanders the Alps 
grieving the loss of Astarte, his great love. Performances 
run through Sunday, and tickets can be purchased at 
trustarts.culturaldistrict.org.
STS9. Stage AE. 8 p.m.
These jamtronica masters will be bringing good vibes and 
groovy beats to Stage AE. Expect hippies, tech geeks, 
bros, and more all dancing in perfect harmony. Tickets 
can be purchased at ticketmaster.com.
Saturday 10.11.14
Sergey Schepkin. Mellon Institute Auditorium. 7:30 p.m.
Associate professor of piano, Sergey Schepkin, will 
perform J.S. Bachs Six Keyboard Partitas as part of the 
Faculty Recital series. Admission is free and open to the 
public.
Jason Mraz and Raining Jane. Benedum Center. 8 
p.m.
That hat-wearing, smooth singer of songs of playful 
seduction, Jason Mraz, will be making all the Pittsburgh 
ladies fall in love with him. Hearing him croon Im Yours 
will surely be worth the price of admission. Tickets can be 
purchased at trustarts.culturaldistrict.org.
Sunday 10.12.14
Carnegie Mellon University Philharmonic. Carnegie 
Music Hall. 7:30 p.m.
Guest conductor Barry Douglas will lead the philharmonic 
through a selection that includes Haydns Symphony No. 
88 in G and Beethovens Piano Concerto No. 2 in B-Flat 
Major. Tickets are $5, but admission is free with a valid 
Carnegie Mellon ID.
Ongoing
Seven Guitars. Chosky Theater. Through Oct. 11.
The School of Drama presents their ?rst mainstage 
production of the season, August Wilsons Seven Guitars. 
Set in the Pittsburgh Hill District in 1948, the play shines a 
light on the African-American males ?ght for identity and 
self-worth in the face of societal and personal obstacles. 
Tickets are $10 with a Carnegie Mellon ID and can be 
purchased at the Purnell Box Of?ce.
The Glass Menagerie. OReilly Theater. Through Nov. 2.
The Pittsburgh Public Theater presents the Tennessee 
Williams classic, inspired by his own life and mentally 
fragile family. Tickets start at $15.75 for students 
and anyone under 26 and can be purchased at 
trustarts.culturaldistrict.org.
Chuck Connelly: My America. The Andy Warhol 
Museum. Through Jan. 4.
As part of the 2014 Pittsburgh Biennial, the Warhol is 
presenting works from Pittsburgh native and surreal 
painter Chuck Connelly. Admission to the museum is free 
with a Carnegie Mellon student ID.
The 13 Most Wanted Men. The Andy Warhol Museum. 
Through Jan. 4.
This exhibit explores a controversy Warhol ignited at the 
1964 New York Worlds Fair, when he expanded and 
displayed mug shots from NYPD records of the 13 most 
wanted men of 1962. Admission to the museum is free 
with a Carnegie Mellon student ID.
Want your event here?
Email calendar@thetartan.org.

---------------------------------------------------

16gallery
pillbox 10.06.14
Abhinav Gautam | Staff Photographer
On Friday, Late Night hosted Noche Latina as part of a month-long 
Hispanic Heritage celebration in the CUC Commons. The event, which 
ran from 9 p.m. to midnight, featured free food, music, performances, 
conversation, and dancing.
noche latina.
