Volume 95, Issue 12
University 
funds entry 
to local 
museums
by Cam Crews
byCaamreywr
A University program providing 
students free admittance to art 
and history museums within 
Pittsburgh began this month. The 
Arts Access proposal was orga
nized by Michael Murphy, Dean of 
Student Affairs, with support from 
student organizations and coordi
nation with city museums.
The new program offers students 
free admittance into a growing list 
of museums upon display of a vali
dated ID and signing in on a tally 
sheet. The University later compen
sates the museums based upon the 
number of students admitted. 
Murphy said the program comple
ments our PAT bus agreement espe
cially well, citing that students are 
provided with free transportation 
to the participating museums.
Currently participating museums 
include the Carnegie Art Museum, 
the Carnegie History Museum, the 
Carnegie Science Center, and the 
Andy Warhol Museum, according 
to Murphy. Negotiations with the 
Phipps Conservatory, the Mattress 
Factory, and the Heinz History 
Center are expected to be finalized 
within the coming week, possibly 
expanding the number of partici
pating museums to seven.
Murphy acknowledged the fiscal 
risk in predicting demand of the pro
gram, but believe [s] the funds raised 
are consistent with our probable annu
al use. The plan is currentiy being 
funded by Student Government, the 
Graduate Students Assembly, Student 
Dormitory Council, College' of Fine 
Arts, the Provost, and Student Affairs. 
Each organization has committed up 
to $4,000. They have committed a 
total of at least $20,000, according to 
Erin Fitzgerald, a junior in electrical 
and computer engineering and stu
dent body president.
The money is expected to fund the 
program through the spring semester, 
after which funds will be renegotiated 
in future years, Murphy said. This has 
been a great partnership, and I am 
very impressed with the student lead
ership on the entire initiative, he said.
Ronald Fernandes, president of 
the GSA, brought the matter before 
his organization after discussing 
the proposal with Murphy. 
Implementing the Arts Access pro
posal was somewhat facilitated 
because University of Pittsburgh 
already had a similar plan in place 
so many of the museums are famil
iar with the program. Though the 
Arts Access proposal was approved 
in October, the launch date of the 
program was delayed until 
December to provide adequate time 
to secure funding and expand the 
plan to as many museums as neces
sary, Fernandes said.
www.thetartan.org4 December 2000
City ordinance removes food vendors from campus streets
by Erin Szeto
bswEeCi nrSzwEyt oCMCfwr
CMU students have always complained 
about the limited dining options on campus, 
but recent legislation passed by City Council 
could be limiting those options even further. 
The new ordinance will prevent vendors from 
selling their products from several places in 
the city, including several locations on streets 
near or on campus.
Tired of the high prices and limited choic
es of University vendors, students and facul
ty often frequent the privately owned ven
dors parked on Frew Street next to Posner 
Hall. The vendors, which include Moonlight, 
Open Flame, Vegetaria, Thai Cuisine, Srees, 
and Crepes Parisiennes, offer a wide selec
tion of vegetarian and non-vegetarian items, 
with most entrees costing as little as three 
dollars. I buy food from them all the time. 
Its cheaper than campus, the food is good, 
and its convenient. Theyre providing a good 
service, said sophomore voice major Sasha 
Piastro of the Frew Street vendors.
Vendors such as Moonlight have been 
conducting business on Frew Street for up 
to 14 years. This business is our life, the 
only thing that we live by. Weve been here 
for a long time, and weve always done 
well. The students like us, and they keep 
coming back, said Jenny Nguyen, whose 
parents own Moonlight.
However, the recently revised City Council 
ordinance on vending laws could mean the 
end of Moonlight and other vendors when the 
| legislation goes into effect on January 1,2001.
In the past, vendors were allowed to sell 
their merchandise from anywhere in the city 
as long as they had the required licenses and
were at least 500 feet away from businesses 
selling similar items. However, members of 
City Council have recently revised the vend
ing laws in an attempt to gain stronger con
trol of the vendors who occupy city streets 
and sidewalks. Under the new rules, ven
dors can only sell from designated sites pre
approved by the Council, and must renew 
their claim on that particular site every two 
wars Thpv arp still nrnhihifpH from hpinr
within 500 feet of stores that sell the same 
merchandise, and are not allowed to be 
within 30 feet of the new stadiums or sports 
sites in the city. Most vendors will pay $500 
for a vending license to cover themselves 
and their vehicles, and vendors who sell 
from stationary vehicles or near sports sta
diums will pay $1000. Extra employees of 
these vendors will also have to pay lower 
fpps fnr thpir own lirpnsps. TInrlpr fhp nrpvious ordinance, vendors paid a maximum of 
$500 for an annual license.
We decided to change the laws because the 
past ordinance was unenforceable and gave 
the vendors too much leeway. They do have 
legitimate businesses, and we respect that, but 
the city simply wants better control of its 
streets. We cant have streets overrun with 
vendors. Thats not what the streets are for,
\/FMnnRi nano A3
Many of the street vendors near campus have succeeded in appealing to the CMU community. This success may soon end, however, due to 
new legislation passed by City Council.
CMU Interactive Theater Student Senate amendment ceases 
program receives award JFC funding for GSA social events
by Ross Krupnik
hvMeSr byCaamreywr
Carnegie Mellons Interactive 
Theater Initiative was recently 
honored by the Pennsylvania 
Economy Leagues People Do 
Matter initiative with the leagues 
2001 Recognizing Innovative 
Human Resources award. The 
Universitys Human Resources 
department shared this award 
with big league corporations, 
including Sony Technology 
Center  Pittsburgh, and FedEx 
Ground. The Interactive Theater 
is one of Carnegie Mellons newer 
approaches toward tackling 
diversity and workplace problems 
with its students and faculty 
through an interactive theatrical 
performance whereby the audi
ence has the opportunity to dis
cuss the show with the actors.
With the creation of this new 
program, the Human Resources 
Department wishes to promote 
discussion of workplace issues, 
such as racism, sexual harass
ment, change management, and 
the working environment, without 
creating discomfort amongst the 
audience or sounding overly 
didactic and boring. During the
course of this hour-long perfor
mance, actors portray characters 
in six half/scripted, half/impro
vised scenarios. Immediately after 
each scenario, the audience dis
cusses the feelings of the actors 
while the actors are still in charac
ter. After this discussion period, 
the audience gives their different 
perspectives on the scenarios per
formed before them. Lastly, a 
Human Resources facilitator leads 
the audience in a strategy session 
in which the audience attempts to 
form practical strategies for solu
tions to the problems presented.
The scenarios portray situations 
that would be confidential, says 
Barbara Smith, assistant vice presi
dent for Human Resources at 
Carnegie Mellon as one of coordi
nators of this program. Its learn-, 
ing that grabs people at a personal 
level. You can eavesdrop and par
ticipate in the situations. Ms. 
Smith explains that she is always 
very surprised with the variety out
comes that accompany every audi
ence strategy session with each per
formance of the interactive theater.
On behalf of the entire 
Interactive Theater Program, 
Barbara Smith, Brenda Harger, 
director of Interactive Theater, 
See THEATER, page A3
by Eve Chen
byCaamreywr
Student Senate passed an 
amendment to their constitution 
last Thursday that gives the 
Graduate Student Assembly (GSA) 
30 percent of the graduate fees for 
funding. As a result, the Joint 
Funding Committee (JFC) will 
cease contribution to the GSA 
social committee and GSA has full 
authority to decide whether or not 
to restrict GSA events to under
graduate students.
Previously, GSA received 10 per
cent of the graduate fees and 
money from the JFC, in which 
graduate and. undergraduate stu
dents have equal say in decisions to 
give funding to organizations. 
Since the money distributed by JFC 
comes from both undergraduate 
and graduate fees, the constitution 
requires events funded by JFC to 
open to all students. However, cer
tain GSA social events such as the
weekly Happy Hour serve alcohol 
and GSA runs the risk of giving 
underage access to alcohol by 
opening these events to undergrad
uate students.
The GSA conducts social activi
ties funded by GSA Social [commit
tee], some of which involve beer 
and thus require the presence of 
Social Hosts, members of the GSA 
executive committee, who are con
sidered liable for the event, said 
Ronald Fernandes, president of 
GSA. Given this liability, it is 
essential for us to have control over 
the events organized by us and 
funded through GSA-Social. The 
GSA eventually decided the only 
way to ensure that underage stu
dents can not drink at the events is 
to restrict attendance to graduate 
students only.
In response to this decision, the 
GSA funds were at first frozen 
because the funds would no longer 
also benefit undergraduates. Then 
the amendment was introduced as 
a solution to the conflict. Although
more graduate fees will now go 
directly to GSA, much of it was 
given previously by JFC, which will 
now cease to contribute funds. 
Therefore the rest of the organiza
tions would not be much affected 
said Nick Fitzkee, Senate chair and 
a senior physics major. Now funded 
only by graduate fees, the GSA 
social events have no obligation to 
allow undergraduate attendance, 
which raised some objections to the 
amendment.
I do not believe as undergradu
ate representatives we could take 
away the undergraduates opportu
nity to participate in these kinds of 
events, said Brian Namey, Senator 
and sophomore in H&SS. Its not 
just about alcohol, its also about 
snacks and a good time.
In contrast, other senators 
argued that since the GSA is liable 
if someone underage gains access 
to alcohol at events it sponsors, it 
should have a say in whether or not 
it wants to run such risks.
See GSA, page A3
TUESDAYHi 39/Lo 21Carnegie Mlions Student Newspaper Since igo6
WEDNESDAY
Hi 32/Lo 19
THURSDAY
Hi 36/Lo 26
FRIDAY
Hi 41/Lo 27THE TARTAN
Referring to the meeting schedule, Student Senate members later discussed and passed an amendment to give GSA 
30 percent of graduate fees and cease JFC funding of GSA social events in return.
INSIDE THE TARTAN
Forum
Debates over the Presidential 
elections continue and Sean 
Mintus argues over the joys of 
smoking, 
page A6
Science & Technology
Play with Legos and learn 
about hackers, 
page B4
Arts & Living
CMU students show their phil
anthropic sides, giving back to 
the community for the holi
days, 
page B1
Sports
Basketball teams can't keep 
up with Johns Hopkins Blue 
Jays in weekend matchups.
Entertainment
The Tartan looks at the best 
(and the worst) of popular cul
ture in the year 2000. 
page B7
dcet meii pw ycw iCty ettvw Sa 
dcw dCryCM aSr ycet twuwtywrl
Last night the All University Orchestra played a selection of classical music In Rangos Hall. Habib Azar, pic
tured above conducting the orchestra, led this diverse group of students composed of members of all the 
University's colleges.

---------------------------------------------------

AiTHE TARTAN  DECEMBER 4, 2000
IRE+
National News
Bush says he will 'soon be President
AP White House Correspondent 
(AP)  George W. Bush flatly 
asserted Saturday, Im soon to be 
the president and met with GOP 
congressional leaders as if to prove 
it. A1 Gore sought a vote recount 
before a Florida judge as both can
didates awaited a U.S. Supreme 
Court decision that could untangle 
their election impasse.
All nine Supreme Court justices 
were at work, a day after hearing 
arguments in the case. There was no 
indication when the high court 
would rule. Despite the legal chal
lenges, Republicans continued to 
prod the vice president to abandon 
his challenge. George W. Bush is 
rightfully our president-elect, Ohio 
Governor Bob Taft said in the GOPs 
weeldy radio address. We should 
not prolong a constitutional impasse 
that could prevent the timely transi
tion of presidential power.
Gore spent a quiet day in 
Washington, chatting over lunch 
with actor Tommy Lee Jones, his 
college roommate and longtime 
friend. Meanwhile, the vice presi
dents lawyers tried to persuade a 
judge in Tallahassee to count 
14,000 disputed ballots from 
South Florida. Attorney David 
Boies said the constested ballots in 
heavily Democratic Palm Beach 
and Miami-Dade counties could 
place in doubt Bushs 537-vote 
victory margin certified by Florida 
Secretary of State Katherine 
Harris. Gore previously has pre
dicted he would win if all die votes 
were counted.
Bushs attorneys filed counter 
motions and said any recount 
should be expanded to include all 
votes cast in Volusia and Broward 
counties, where Gore benefited 
from recanvasses shordy after the 
election. Bushs lawyers also 
sought to negate a Seminole 
County lawsuit filed by Democrats 
to throw out about 15,000 absen
tee ballots, which would cost Bush 
a net total of 4,797 votes.
Kimball Brace, an election expert 
called by Gores side, said a hand 
count is the only way of finding 
out exactly how many votes were 
cast for each candidate. Brace,
president of Election Data Services, 
tried to show various ways 
Floridians intending to vote for 
Gore could have failed to fully 
punch their ballots, instead creat
ing impressions called dimples.
Under cross examination by 
Bush lawyer Phil Beck, Brace 
acknowledged that indentations 
could also have resulted simply 
from the handling of the ballots.
If I were to rub my finger across 
it, that could create an indentation 
and that obviously should not be 
counted as intention to vote, 
Brace testified. Gores lawyers also 
presented testimony from a statis
tician, Nicholas Hengartner of 
Yale University.
Bush retreated to his ranch, 
meeting with House Speaker 
Dennis Hastert and Senate 
Majority Leader Trent Lott to dis
cuss Republican legislative priori
ties for the new Congress. The 
meeting appeared intended to pro
ject an aura of inevitability of a 
Bush presidency, court cases 
notwithstanding. The governor 
expressed concern about a poten
tial slowdown in the economy, cit
ing concerns about auto sales and 
rising energy prices. He said he 
would work with congressional 
leaders to prepare a plan that will 
keep the economy going.
Lott said that he hoped to be 
able to move on Bush appoint
ments quickly. Lott noted, howev
er, that in the Senate, weve got a 
very delicate situation with a 50- 
50 split between Republicans and 
Democrats. Lott joked that 
Cheney, who could cast the tie 
breaking vote as vice president, 
might be needed a lot.
Sitting before the fireplace at his 
ranch house, Bush unabashedly 
declared, Im soon to be the insid
er. Im soon to be the president. 
He promised to reach out as presi
dent to Democratic leaders, saying 
he already had talked with Senator 
John Breaux of Louisiana. Breaux 
is among a number of Democrats 
that Bush advisers have suggested 
for a Bush administration slot. But 
Bush said he recognized that it 
might put him in an awkward posi
tion to be directly discussing a 
role for Breaux.
In new polling, a declining 
majority of the public says it is 
most important to come to the cor
rect resolution. A new Newsweek 
poll found that 52 percent said all 
reasonable doubts should be 
removed, down from 72 percent 
who felt that way immediately 
after the election. Forty-four per
cent of those surveyed said its 
more important to get matters 
resolved, compared to 25 percent 
right after the election.
Twenty-five days after the elec
tion, the legal battle inched for
ward in Florida a day after two set
backs for Gore. The state Supreme 
Court on Friday refused to order 
an immediate hand recount of the 
14,000 ballots, sending the case 
into a hearing that stretched 
through Saturday. In another deci
sion, the court refused to order a 
new election in Palm Beach 
County, rejecting a plea from vot
ers who contested the design of 
the countys butterfly ballot.
Forced to argue their case, Gores 
lawyers staged a courtroom 
demonstration of how the election 
count could be skewered by ballot 
problems. Bush attorney Barry 
Richard said no more recounts 
should be allowed, calling Gores 
request contrary to the long-stand
ing and clearly established law of 
the state. He accused the Gore 
team of trying to get the court to 
alter the course of the election to 
reach a destination that he must 
arrive at in order to win.
Circuit Judge N. Sanders Sauls, 
a registered Democrat appointed 
by a Republican governor, 
presided over the hearing. He has 
the power to order a correction to 
Floridas official results, which 
gave Bush the 537 vote margin.
In Palm Beach County, officials 
announced a final adjustment to 
their recount total, reducing 
Gores net gain of votes in the 
. recount from 188 to 174. The state 
has refused to accept those 
recount numbers because they 
werent completed by last Sundays 
5 p.m. deadline.
Sports utility vehicle insurance may rise
NEW YORK (AP)  Two insur
ance companies are raising liability 
premiums for sport utility vehicles, 
pickup trucks and big vans because 
of evidence that they cause more 
damage in accidents, The New York 
Times reported Saturday.
Allstate Insurance Co. and the 
Progressive Insurance Group, 
which together cover almost 25 
million vehicles, also said this 
week they had begun lowering 
premiums for other cars. Until 
now, drivers with similar records 
often have paid similar premiums 
for liability and personal injury 
coverage, whether they own a 
small car or SUV, the Times said.
People with standard sedans 
and smaller cars today are subsi
dizing people with sports utilities 
and vans and pickups, said Kevin 
Kelso, in charge of auto insurance 
at Farmers Insurance Group, 
which plans to adopt similar mea
sures next year.
However, the newspaper said, 
accident data are persuading the 
industry to make changes that bet
ter assign costs according to the 
safety record of a particular model. 
Bigger vehicles can cause more 
damage to other cars, but that 
doesnt always mean theyre safer 
for the people riding in them, 
Progressive spokeswoman Leslie
Kolleda said Saturday.
We look at data from crash 
tests, look at what cockpit protec
tion the vehicle affords, how the 
vehicle is designed and made. Its a 
lot more than just size, Kolleda 
said. She said Progressive has been 
pricing liability coverage based on 
vehicle characteristics since 1983.
Allstate spokesman Mike 
Trevino said the company will 
raise liability premiums for some 
SUV models, while premiums for 
some vans and cars may decrease.
Premiums are likely to rise or fall 
by $150 or less a year under the 
new plans, insurance executives 
told the Times.
Corrections & Clarifications
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of an error, please contact Editor-in-ChiefIsh Harshawat 
atx8-2111 or tartan@andrew.cmu.edu.
Clinton passes 
education budget
WASHINGTON (AP) Lawmakers 
returning to the Capital this week for 
a lame-duck session should make 
passage of the almost $40 billion edu
cation budget their first priority, 
President Clinton said Saturday.
It is very important that we get 
right back to business and fulfill our 
responsibility to give our children a 
world-class education, Clinton 
said in his weekly radio address, 
broadcast live from the Oval Office 
before an invited audience of edu
cators and supporters.
Bipartisan bargainers agreed last 
month to a record $7.9 billion 
increase in education spending  20 
percent above last year  that was 
later rejected by House GOP leaders. 
Democrats are battling for specific 
funds to hire new teachers and repair 
crumbling schools. Republicans are 
, seeking to give states the option of 
spending that money on other pro
grams such as special education.
The Republican Congress has 
increased education spending by 50 
percent over the past four years. The 
question is not about funding, its 
about who controls the funding, and 
Republicans want more education 
dollars to go to classrooms, not to 
Washington bureaucrats, John 
Feehery, spokesman for House 
Speaker Dennis Hastert, R-Ill., said.
Clinton said that Congress is 
returning still time to get the job 
done. Congress should pass e edu
cation budget as its first order of 
business. Fortunately, were already 
standing on common ground. Vital
federal investments are needed to 
replace and repair crumbling 
schools, operate after-school pro
grams, hire new teachers, reduce 
class size, improve teacher training, 
turn around failing schools, and 
expand the Head Start program for 
preschoolers, Clinton said.
Also included in the education bud
get are increases in Pell Grant college 
scholarships for needy students, and 
tutoring and counseling to help pre
pare low-income students for college.
A Department of Education 
report Clinton released claimed 
California alone could lose almost 
$715 million in new education dol
lars if Congress fails to approve the 
proposed $7.9 billion spending 
increase. Now is not the time to 
walk away from the agreement we 
made, especially so close to the fin
ish line, the President said. Clinton 
complained that Congress decided 
to recess to permit members to 
campaign for re-election before fin
ishing the education budget.
The holiday season is a perfect 
time to reflect on the values that unite 
us  our children and their educa
tion, Clinton said. Let us join togeth
er two parties and one country to give 
our children the school, the teachers 
and the futures they deserve. He 
added, A lot is at stake here  the 
condition of our schools, the quality of 
our teachers, most important, the 
education of our children.
Education Secretary Richard 
Riley said both candidates for pres
ident  Republican George W. 
Bush and Democrat A1 Gore  
campaigned on a strong pro-edu
cation agenda. So it makes no 
sense to put aside a budget agree
ment that keeps American educa
tion moving forward, Riley told 
reporters on Friday.
Officials issue riot 
compensation
AUBURN, N.Y. (AP)  More than 
a quarter of a century after the dead
ly Attica prison riots, $8 million in 
settlement checks are on their way 
to hundreds of inmates injured in 
the uprising. Federal officials said 
Friday that checks, for between 
$6,500 and $125,000, depending on 
the severity of the inmates injuries 
had been mailed to 502 Attica 
inmates or their surviving relatives.
The 1971 Attica uprising was the 
countrys deadliest prison riot. Thirtytwo inmates and 11 prison employees 
were killed, all but four shot to death 
when state police retook die prison in 
western New York after a four-day 
standoff. In their civil suit, surviving 
inmates claimed they were brutally 
beaten by authorities in the hours and 
days after the retaking.
New York state in January agreed 
to pay the inmates $8 million and 
their lawyers $4 million in fees, 
although it denied any wrongdoing. 
The original 1974 class-action lawsuit 
sought $100 million in damages. The 
settlement plan was devised by U.S. 
District Judge Michael Telesca and 
terms were announced in August.
The only thing I really hope and 
I pray for is that everybody learned 
a lesson and tries to accept respon
sibility, former inmate Frank 
Smith told the Democrat & 
Chronicle of Rochester. Ive said it 
before and Ill say it again: Its not 
about the money.
World News
Thai Place 
Caf
Mon - Sat 10:30 - 9:30 
Closed Sundays
311 S. Craig St.
phone 622-0133 
fax 622 - 0166
Authentic Thai Cuisine 
Noodle Plates and Bowls 
California Style Pizzas 
Special Rice Plates 
Entrees and Curry Bowls
DINE IN OR 
CARRY OUT
The Newest Concept 
From
Thai Place Restaurant 
In Shadyside
Pinochet lawyers 
appeal indictment
SANTIAGO, Chile (AP)  
Lawyers for General Augusto 
Pinochet on Saturday appealed his 
indictment on homicide and kid
napping charges, claiming the for
mer dictator has been subject to 
irregular and arbitrary acts.
In the appeal filed at the 
Santiago Court of Appeals, the 
lawyers argued that Chilean Judge 
Juan Guzman indicted Pinochet 
without even questioning him first. 
General Pinochet has been denied 
the right to state his case, said. 
Fernando Barros, a top member of 
Pinochets legal team.
Fridays indictment came as a 
surprise, because Guzman himself 
had ordered Pinochet to undergo 
mental tests to determine whether 
he was fit to stand trial. The tests 
have not yet begun. Guzman 
charged Pinochet in connection 
with the Caravan of Death, one of 
the most notorious cases of human 
rights violations during his 1973- 
90 reign.
The caravan was a military party 
that killed 73 political prisoners in 
various cities shortly after Pinochet 
led a 1973 coup that ousted social
ist President Salvador Allende.
Guzman filed homicide charges 
against Pinochet for 55 of the vic
tims whose bodies have been 
accounted for, and kidnapping 
charges for 18 others who remain 
missing. Plaintiffs, human rights 
activists and relatives of the victims
claim the members of the caravan 
acted on orders from Pinochet. 
Guzman also ordered the 85-yearold Pinochet placed under house 
arrest. That is expected to happen 
Monday or Tuesday.
Pinochet remained Saturday at 
his heavily guarded countryside 
residence in Los Boldos, 80 miles 
southwest of Santiago. Pinochet 
faces 187 criminal complaints stem
ming from human rights abuses 
during his long reign. Guzman last 
August succeeded in having him 
stripped of his congressional immu
nity paving the way for the indict
ment he issued Friday.
The indictment adds to a series 
of legal setbacks for Pinochet since 
his arrest in October 1998 in 
London. He was released in March 
on health grounds and returned to 
Chile. He suffers from diabetes, 
has a pacemaker and has been hit 
by three mild strokes in the last 
two years. He walks with a cane 
and often has to be helped by 
bodyguards. While the indictment 
is considered a major setback for 
Pinochet, the appeals by' his 
lawyers are expected to drag on for 
months, if not years.
Farm workers 
loot in Brazil
RIO DE JANEIRO, Brazil (AP) 
 Hundreds of landless farm
workers in drought-stricken 
northeastern Brazil barricaded 
highways and threatened truck 
drivers with machetes and sickles
to steal food, police said Saturday. 
The looting came as 10 towns in 
Sergipe state declared a state of 
emergency, following a yearlong 
drought that has devastated crops 
and killed livestock.
On Friday, close to 300 peasants 
belonging to the Landless Rural 
Workers Movement used a tractor 
and makeshift barricades to force 
a truck carrying food off a high
way near the town of Poco 
Redondo, police officer Antonio 
Nery Fonseca said. After the truck 
stopped, the peasants pointed 
machetes and sickles at the truck 
drivers throat while others stole 
about $3,700 worth of crackers 
and pasta, Fonseca said. Some 
2,000 landless families live by the 
highway in squatters camps. It 
was the fifth time in less than a 
month the squatters had success
fully looted commercial long-haul 
trucks on the same stretch of high
way, he said.
About 100 police officers were 
sent to the area from the state capi
tal Saturday to patrol highways and 
prevent looting, he said.
The Landless Workers 
Movement has pledged to continue 
blocking highways and looting 
until the federal government dis
tributes food baskets to 4,000 fami
lies in Sergipe that lost crops in the 
drought. The Sergipe state govern
ment also has asked for the food 
baskets. The federal government 
said it will send $1 million worth of 
supplies .and water to Poco 
Redondo and the nine other 
drought-affected towns.
SPENDING
LIMITS
www.gettoyota.com
ECHO
Most everyone has them... no one likes them. (Toyota Echo can help.) Echo gets up to 38 miles per gallon* ..that limits your spending 
on gasoline. (Good start.) Echo has an amazing amount of interior room...seating for 5...so it will hold a lot of something, like up to 
4 paying passengers on Holiday trips home - positive cash flow to further limit your spending. (Another plus.) Now you try one. 
(Hints: It's Toyota... very dependable. And its an Echo, starting around $13,500, well equipped.) Do the next time your spending limits 
come up for discussion, you'll be all set with a positive suggestion... A visit to your nearby Toyota Dealer.
*EPA estimate. 31/38 4 door, 4-speed automatic. Even better with 5-speed manual.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  DECEMBER 4, 2000
City Street vendors find their locations in jeopardy after recent legislation
Moonlight and the Thai food vendor on Tech Street are both popular lunch places for students, staff, and faculty.
VENDORS, from page A1 
said Stephen Bruder, administrative 
assistant to City Councilman Jim 
Furlo.
Vendors that have occupied a 
particular site prior to the new 
ordinance have the option of peti
tioning to stay in their current 
location, but the new legislation 
will prohibit vendors from parking 
their vehicles in any of the citys 
metered parking spaces. For CMU, 
this means the end of Moonlight, 
Srees, and the other vendors 
located on Frew and Tech Street.
Its just not right. The city should
nt be able to tell people that they 
cant park at meters. Its public prop
erty, and [the vendors] should have 
access to it like anyone else. It just 
seems like a total bureaucracy, said 
Jon Weinberger, owner of Vegetaria, 
of the revised vending ordinance.
Sree, who has one van on Frew 
Street and a second on Tech Street, 
said he is especially upset that the 
city failed to contact vendors about 
the revised ordinance. I was never
sent a letter. I heard about it 
through TV, newspapers  only 
through the media, said Sree.
According to David Handler, 
owner of Crepes Parisiennes, there 
was never a broad announcement 
of the changes. There was a public 
announcement in In Pgh 
[Magazine], but it was a small box 
next to the personal ads. No one 
saw it, and the vendors definitely 
have not been very informed by 
City Council. Many of them have no 
idea whats going on, and City 
Council hasnt told them what they 
need to do. Its like the city is trying 
to get [the ordinance] passed with
out telling anyone about it. Its 
wrong. The vendors dont have 
enough information, and come 
January when this goes into effect, 
none of the vendors will know 
what their status is, he said.
Charles Donasorte, owner of The 
Pittsburgh Stop, a stand that sells Pitt 
clothing and merchandise on the cor
ner of Bigelow Boulevard and Forbes 
Avenue, said he is extremely angered
by the new rules, and plans to take his 
arguments to the Supreme Court if 
the city refuses to reconsider the ordi
nance. Saying we cant park at city 
meters is the like telling people with 
brown hair that they cant walk on 
city sidewalks. City Council knows 
that this is illegal, but they went 
ahead with it anyway. Its wrong. 
Theyre trying to micromanage every
one, but they cant just arbitrarily 
decide what is good for the vendors. 
They cant tell us where to park. Its 
unfair and unconstitutional, he said.
Bruder said he disagrees. The city 
does have the authority to make 
those kinds of decisions. We have 
zoning rights, and its our duty to 
oversee commercial districts. The city 
is allowed to control the type of devel
opment in a particular area. And ven
dors have never been allowed to park 
in metered parking spaces. The 
Parking Authority just hasnt been 
enforcing the rules, he said. The 
vendors are simply unused to the 
standards of the city. They think they 
dont fall under our jurisdiction, just
Senate votes to modify GSA funding
GSA, from page A1
The real issue here is that grad
uate students should have the 
freedom to organize and control 
their own events in the manner 
they see best fit, said Erin 
Fitzgerald, student body president 
and junior in electrical and com
puter engineering.
However, since JFC consists of 
undergraduate and graduate stu
dents alike, the graduate students 
already-have control over where 
they want - their money to go, 
according to Namey. We are not
taking away the right to make deci
sions [from GSA], Namey said.
Even the passed amendment in 
effect takes away some decision
making rights from the graduate 
students, according to Fernandes.
The current amendment 
approved by Senate approves rep
resentation to the JFC propor
tional to financial contribution 
and revokes veto powers by both 
organizations, Fernandes said. 
This would result in GSA repre
sentation to JFC, a committee of 
nine students, of just two graduInteractive Theater receives recognition
THEATER, from page A1 
and Ron Placone, director of 
Learning and Development for 
Human Resources, accepted the 
award. They participated in a 
panel discussion with the other 
awarded associations to speak 
about the replication, implementa
tion, and impact of their programs.
The aspect of interactive theatre 
that makes it a unique and power
ful form of learning is that it 
engages virtually all audience 
members regardless of position or 
responsibility, says Mr. Placone. 
The themes are universal, and the 
coordination among the writer, . 
director, actors, and facilitators 
enables these themes to become 
meaningful to the vast m?jority of 
; attendees.
The collaboration of the College of 
Fine Arts, the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology, and the School of 
Computer Science has caused the 
Interactive Theater to greatly 
progress since its creation two years 
ago by Dr. Patricia Laughlin, Associate 
Dean of CIT, Ingrid Sonnichsen, 
Associate Professor of Drama, and 
Human Resources Representative 
Rochelle Koch. The theater has been 
showcased at other institutions. Next 
week e theater will perform for 
Mellon Bank to help its employees 
engage in dialogue learning, says 
Ms. Smith. Performances will also be 
conducted for Hunt Library and 
Enrollment Services employees in the 
near future. As a result of the prestige 
and popularity the program has 
accepted, The School of Computer
because theyre vendors. But they do, 
and were enforcing these new laws to 
keep them in line.
Bruder said he does want the ven
dors to know that City Council is not 
their enemy. The vendors need to 
understand that were not kicking 
them out. There are a limited 
amount of spots, yes, but the city is 
prepared to vote and designate any
where from 150-200 sites for them 
to sell their merchandise. Well try to 
approve as many spots as there are 
vendors. Were not trying to do away 
with vendors. Were just making 
higher standards for them, he said.
Council members are mostly in 
agreement about the new legisla
tion and have rallied behind the rul
ing to prohibit vendors from keep
ing their vehicles in metered park
ing spaces. Councilman Dan Cohen, 
especially, has been a main force 
behind the crackdown on food and 
clothing vendors in the Central 
Oakland area, which is the neigh
borhood he represents. According 
to Cohen, members of the 
University of Pittsburgh administra
tion believe that the vendors locat
ed in front of Hillman Library take 
away from the aesthetic appear
ance of the university, and that by 
taking up so many parking spots, 
the vendors make customers unable 
to find parking to visit businesses in 
the surrounding area. Cohen also 
said that many residents in Oakland 
have complained that the number 
of vendors detracts from the quality 
of life near their homes.
Neal Binstock, assistant vice 
president of Business Services at 
CMU, states that the University has 
no involvement in the issue, but 
that he and Dean of Student Affairs 
Michael Murphy have never had a 
problem with the privately owned 
vendors next to the campus. The 
University does not oppose [having 
vendors on Frew Street] in any 
way. We support a free market 
economy, and we support the con
cept of open competition. If they 
want to sell food, great. The ven
dors offer diversity, a quick turn 
around, and good food. The 
University is not in support of this 
new bill. The ruling is just from the 
city due to commercial and resi
dential complaints, Binstock said.
The new vending legislation has 
been in effect since November 3. 
However, Mayor Tom Murphy has 
not yet approved the ordinance, nor 
has City Council written a final draft 
of the new provisions. It is unclear as 
to when the new rules will be 
enforced, and the ordinance must 
still undergo a series of additional 
revisions and debates before an offi
cial ruling can be made. Nonetheless, 
City Council is hoping to have the 
final draft completed by the end of 
this year, meaning that enforcement 
of the new legislation would official
ly begin in January 2001.
In the meantime, vendors such 
as Sree and Nguyen are asking 
their customers to write letters to 
the city and sign petitions arguing 
against the revised ordinance.
We hope that the students will 
support us and help us. Write a 
petition that were here and that 
you enjoy us being here. Let the city 
know that you want to keep us 
here. I think that in the end, the 
students voices are much stronger 
than ours, said Nguyen.
Students seem to enjoy the diversity in foods offered by the street vendors near campus. They can find everything 
from Indian food to French crepes.
ate representatives with no veto 
powers and voting by simple 
majority vote. There was essen
tially no need to have introduced 
changes to the constitution relat
ed to the set up of the JFC at this 
stage, as the amendment to 
remove the GSA Social committee 
from the JFC allocation process 
would not have hurt allocations 
to any other organizations and 
given back to graduates a part of 
their own activities fees and 
money to be' spent as they 
deemed useful.
Science under the guidance of Ms. 
Harger and aegis of the Hewlitt 
Corporation will create a synthetic 
interactive theater on CD-ROM.
The Carnegie Mellon Interactive 
Theater has also received the Fred 
C. Ford Award for a creative, inno
vative idea reflecting ingenuity and 
understanding of human 
resources from the Eastern Region 
of the College and University 
Personnel Association, and has 
been nominated for an award from 
the College Universities Professors 
Association, Human Resources 
division. Other scenarios that are 
now being worked on for future 
performances are interactions with 
international students and the 
chilly climate in the classroom.
Student Senate reallocation of surplus funds
At the Student Senate meeting last Thursday, November 30, the reallocation of some of the surplus funds cur
rently held by Senate was approved. The below numbers show the amount, destination, and reason for the dis
tribution of these funds.
AmountReason
$5,200cmuTV is currently sharing six digital cameras with all of CFA. 
This way they will be able to purchase their own.
$5,000The Womens Center and AB Concerts will sponsor a Dar 
Williams concert in April.
$3,000WRCT will purchase equipment so they can have four chan
nels, which will allow them to do remote broadcasts.
$7,500AB Tech will buy a new soundboard to replace their current 
board which is 15 years old.
$100Students will use the money to purchase sample cutlery for 
Schatz that is more environment friendly. They will put it on a 
small-scale trial.
$1,000The money will be used for Winterfest.
$2,000For students who are redesigning Highlander to display student 
artwork.
Crime and Incident Report
Burglary, 11/28/00  A CMU student reported to Campus Police 
that somebody removed $150 from his wallet as he slept in his room. 
When he went to retrieve the cash from his wallet shortly after noon the 
next day, he discovered the loss. He said that he remembers somebody in 
his room at around 2 am and that the actor said a curse word, but the vic
tim stated that he thought the individual in his room was simply his room
mate. Only after he discovered his money missing and asked his roommate 
if he had been in the room at 2 am did he discover that he had been bur
glarized. His roommate stated that he did not return until 4 am that 
morning.
Lockbox Theft, 11/30/00  Campus Police was contacted by a 
member of a campus organization who said that a lockbox was penetrat
ed and that nearly $1600 was stolen from it. The victim said that the orga
nization just held a show where it raised between $3500 and $4000. The 
room on the third floor of the University Center contained a filing cabinet, 
but there was no lock on the cabinet. The victim claimed that nobody else 
should have had a key to the office besides himself and two other mem
bers of his organization and another University organization. However, 
the victim stated that he lost his key and needed Campus Police to provide 
access. Additionally, the victim found a food wrapper from Taco Bell that 
had not been in the office previously. After the incident, the victim did not 
want to store the money in the office or in his residence and asked that 
Campus Police hold the money until it was ready to be picked up and 
deposited.
Damage Report, 12/1/00  Campus Police observed a male 
looking at damage on the front end of a blue Audi automobile. The
officer stopped to speak with the male, and discovered that the male 
was the owner of the car and that he was looking at damage sustained 
to his car. The victim stated that he parked his car at 11 pm close to 
Wean Hall and went inside. When he returned at 1 am, he noticed that 
somebody hit his car and left the area. The victim did not want a 
report written, but Campus Police said that it was required. The 2000 
Audi sustained damage of a sheered front drivers side fender, front 
fender light cover turned off, drivers side mirror broken, and white 
scratches that extended down the entire length of the drivers side of 
the car. However, Campus Police determined later that the damage 
was not sustained to the vehicle outside of Wean Hall, but on Forbes 
Avenue in an accident.
Disorderly Conduct, 12/1/00  A Traffic Monitor radioed 
Campus Police to report that a cook from a fraternity had a bat in his 
hand and was threatening a Coca-Cola distribution worker. Campus 
Police responded and determined that the Coca-Cola truck was block
ing the driveway between two fraternities. The cook was confronted by 
Campus Police and he said that he asked the driver to move his truck 
several times. He said that they exchanged words, and that the driver 
and a colleague appeared to be approaching him in an aggressive man
ner. He went to get a baseball bat. Campus Police told the actor to call 
Campus Police in the future for any problems that he might have with 
parking or altercations.
Criminal Mischief, 12/1/00  A CMU employee called Campus 
Police to report that somebody placed a towel in the oven of the basement 
of Resnik Hall. Campus Police were contacted and went to the basement,
which was filled with smoke. Since the sink was not immediately work
ing, Campus Police used a fire extinguisher to douse the towel. Previously, 
related to this incident, a roll of burned paper towels was found in the 
oven in the basement of another CMU dormitory.
Suspicious Person, 12/1/00  Campus Police were called and 
took down a report of a suspicious male who went to two apartments 
asking for a cane. The male was described as being 30 years of age, 
wearing a tan suit and a hat with a feather in it. Campus Police checked 
the building for the male, and then asked the desk attendant if anyone 
fitting the description lived in the building and was given an address. 
The officer went to a room and discovered the male fitting the descrip
tion, and the male said that he was the person in question, and that he 
was trying to get props for a costume party. The male was thanked for 
his time and assistance.
- Campus Sergeant Ricci reviews all reports prior to release.
- Only three people on The Tartan staff see the reports: the Editor-in-Chief 
the News Editor; and the staffwriter typing the report.
-All personal names of complainants, victims, suspects, and fraternities 
are omitted from the printed report. Ethnic descriptions and other personal 
details are given only in the context of complete descriptions.
- Not every incident that occurs appears in the report.
Compiled by 
Aseem Gupta

---------------------------------------------------

vw.com/films
Independent filmmakers have to be innovative. (We can relate to that.) So we're working with AtomFilms to offer lots of short films, free. Drivers wanted!

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  DECEMBER 4, 2000
Reports confirm that college 
is a worthwhile investment
(U-WIRE) Daily Kent Stater, 
KENT, Ohio  Is it really worth it to 
go to college? U.S. Census Bureau 
estimates show that while college 
tuition has grown at double the 
rate of inflation since 1980, and 
student loan availability  and stu
dent debt  is increasing, college is 
still an affordable investment that 
lasts a lifetime.
The Census Bureau reported in 
1998 that the median annual 
income for a person who graduated 
from high school was $34,373, 
while the median income for those 
with a bachelors degree was 
$62,188. The figure almost doubles 
when you throw in a degree. Two 
annual reports released in 
September by the College Board, 
the organization that created the 
Scholastic Achievement Test (SAT), 
were products of studies the group 
does on college prices and student 
aid each year. One of these, Trends 
in College Pricing 2000, states that, 
Over a lifetime, the gap in earning 
potential between the high school 
diploma and the BA (or higher) 
exceeds $1 million.
But paying for tuition, books, 
rent, and transportation leaves 
some students wondering if theyve 
made the right choice by pursuing a 
degree. While student aid has 
increased in total value since 1980, 
and reached a record $68 billion in 
1999-2000, it has not kept pace 
with the rise in tuition, which has 
risen on average more than 115 
percent above inflation at both 
public and private universities in 
the last 20 years. They say every
one can afford it, Kent State junior 
psychology/criminal justice major 
Josh Martin said. But I think thats 
bull. There isnt enough financial 
aid in this country to support every
one who wants to go to college. 
Freshman marketing major at Kent 
State University Michael McMillian 
disagreed. If you really want to go to 
college, youll find a way, he said. 
There are so many different scholar
ships  they even have scholarships 
for people who are left-handed. 
Federal Pell Grants, the most 
accessible grants for college stu
dents in the nation, were originally 
designed to be the foundation of a 
students schooling. But today, they 
cover only 39 percent of the aver
age tuition at a public four-year 
university, the College Boards 
Trends in Student Aid reported. 
Federal loans now make up 51.4 
percent of all student aid awarded, 
with federal, state and institutional 
grants and private loans making up 
the remainder.
A common situation for students 
is one in which their parents make 
too much money to qualify them for 
grants, yet they do not make enough 
to afford sending their kids to school 
without federal assistance.
The College Boards online 
Student Loan Calculator gives esti
mates to students on their future 
monthly loan repayment bills based 
upon the year they will graduate, 
the amount of federal funds bor
rowed and their estimated annual 
starting salary. The site recom
mends that a persons monthly pay
ment not be more than 10 to 15 per
cent of his or her income.
If a student borrowed the maxi
mum amount of guaranteed federal 
money and took four years to gradu-. 
ate, the monthly payment would be 
$202, according to the site. For a per
son making only $15,000 a year, this ; 
payment would represent 14 percent 
of his or her monthly income. The 
total amount owed, if paid back over a 
10-year period at interest rates: 
around eight percent, would be', 
$24,240. This reflects a principal bal
ance (original loan amount) of; ; 
$17,125 plus $7,115 in interest.
A person who makes $25,000 to 
start would have a loan payment 
that represented only eight percent' 
of his or her monthly income. The J 
College Boards list of estimated;! 
starting salaries for several fields 
ranged from $22,102 for journalists; 
to $42,759 for chemical engineers.; 
Most occupations on the list started: 
at more than $25,000 a year.
Sandy Baum, professor of economics at Skidmore College and an 
expert on higher education 
finance, said the average student 
debt at public schools is about 
$11,000. She maintained that get
ting a degree was well worth what 
students end up paying back. 
Youre going to benefit from your 
college education for the rest of 
your life, Baum said. Its like buy
ing a house  it doesnt make any 
sense to pay in cash.
News Briefs
Hornbostel buildings receive 
historical landmark status
The Pittsburgh History and Landmarks Foundation recently awarded 
the University with historic landmark plaques for the buildings designed 
by Henry Hornbostel, architect of the original campus plan. Cast alu
minum plaques for 13 buildings have been received and will be mounted. 
Xhe buildings receiving historic landmark status are the College of Fine 
/^ts, Doherty Hall, Porter Hall, Hamerschlag Hall, Margaret Morrison 
Carnegie Hall, Hamburg Hall, Baker Hall, Skibo Gymnasium, McGill Hall, 
Hall, Scobell Hall, Welch Hall and Henderson Hall.
University continues consideration 
of Intel Solution Center in UC
Both students, faculty, and administrators have continued discussions 
about Intel forming a Solutions Center in the University Center base
ment. There has been no substantive progress in the past several 
weeks, said Michael Murphy, Dean of Student Affairs. Intel is aware of 
the concerns raised on campus and is continuing to consider their inter
est in the partnership. According to Murphy, the University will contin
ue to involve student, faculty, and staff governments until a decision has 
been made.
CMU English professor passes away
Ann Hayes, a member of the CMU English department since 1957 and 
an award-winning poet, died on Friday, December 1 in Shadyside 
Hospital at the age of 76.
Hayes became an instructor at the University in 1957 and a full profes
sor in 1974. She acted as the head of the English Department from 1977- 
78. She was an active member of the department and teaching a course in 
Epic and Satire. She also taught courses in classical readings and poetry.
Much of Hayess poetry captured events in Pittsburgh and the 
University. Her last collection of poems, Notes and Spectacles, was pub
lished earlier this year. It was her eighth book of poetry and contained 
all of her work since 1995.
Hayes wrote seven other collections of poems including For Sally Baines, 
Amo Ergo Sum, Amo Ergo Est, The Dancers Step, The Living and the Dead, 
Witness: How All Occasions?, Progress, Dancing, and Circle of the Earth.
Besides her contributions of essays and literature reviews, as well as 
journal editorships, Hayes was known for her work in creating a model 
for an advanced placement English course with Carnegie Mellon English 
professor John Hart. She was also active as a seminar leader for confer
ences about issues relating to the teaching of English and advanced 
placement courses.
Hayes was often invited to give readings of her poems, including read
ings for the International Poetry Forum and WQED-FM in Pittsburgh. 
Other invitations were offered from the Ashland Shakespeare Festival, 
the Poets in Person Series, the New Theatre Festival, Womanstyle and 
Philadelphias Annenberg Centre.
Hayes was a student at Stanford University, where she earned both her 
bachelors and masters degree in English. She also taught there briefly.
Her awards included the Irene Hardy Poetry Award, Clarence Urmy 
Poetry Prize, the Ina Coolbrith Award and the Borestone Mountain 
Poetry Award. She also earned an honorable mention for the James D. 
Phelan Award in Poetry from the Phelan Foundation.
Her husband, Frank, preceded his wife in death. Mrs. Hayes is survived 
by her sister Bee Thorpe of San Francisco, two nieces, and one nephew.
Second annual EnterPrize Business 
Plan Competition begins
The second annual EnterPrize Business Plan Competition to encour
age the creation of start-up ventures in southwestern Pennsylvania has 
begun. The competition awards a total of $145,000 to teams submitting 
innovative business plans to start new companies. Cash prizes range 
from $2,500 to $50,000. The competition was created last year through 
the partnership of several of the regions universities, businesses and 
mil..} ueiuneiitiei/niuiu ou... development organizations. The inaugural competition generated nearHall is one of the buildings on campus that was recently ly a dozen new businesses and eight groups received more than $3.5 mildeclared a historical landmark. lion in additional financing from venture capital firms.
TODAYS JOB OPENING #0214
JOB TITLE; Senior Project Manager.
SALARY: How much do you want?
DESCRIPTION: Create, supervise, play in
spacious corner office.
Low pressure, short hours. 
Quick promotions.
REQUIREMENTS: College experience.
Knowledge of video games 
and movies a plus. 
International travel required.
OTHER: Monthly bonuses.
Mornings optional.
A SUITE FOR LESS THAN 
A HOTEL ROOM
Hey, your dream job might not exist. But there are over 
40,000 other high tech job openings throughout New York State.
Elegantly furnished one- or two-bedroom apartment suites include an equipped kitchen, 
fluffy linens, TV, VCR, cable movies, free local phone service, and reserved parking. 
Conveniently located at 5405 Fifth Avenue, Shadyside. Two blocks from Walnut Streets 
145 fashionable shops and 12 delicious restaurants. One mile to CMU/Pitt/Hospitals.
DAILY, WEEKLY, MONTHLY RATES
5405 Fifth Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15232
(412) 441-4444http: //www. shady sideinn. com

---------------------------------------------------

Forum
4 December 2000THE TARTANPage A6
Student Government budgeting 
process harms organizations
Recently, Student Senate doled out money 
from a $50,000 surplus in the Senate budget 
account. Much of this money came from sur
pluses from individual student organizations 
from the previous fiscal year. The way this sur
plus is being allocated, and its existence, is 
representative of a larger problem that nearly 
all student organizations must cope with: 
Student Governments budgetary process.
Instead of being allowed to hold on to their 
revenue at the end of the year, organizations 
return it to Student Senate. This type of sur
plus should not exist. Instead, organizations 
should be allowed to hold on to that money for 
future use.
This surplus is a direct result of the flawed 
policies and processes behind how Student 
Government distributes money to student 
organizations. The Joint Funding Committee 
(JFC) is the main body within Student 
Government responsible for figuring out how 
the student activities fee is allocated.
The problem lies in the inordinate amount of 
control that JFC wields over how student orga
nizations spend their money, and thus how stu
dent organizations operate. During the bud
getary process each year, JFC decides how to 
spend the activities fee based on proposed bud
gets from student organizations. JFC approves 
budgets based on arbitrary information and an 
incomplete understanding of the fiscal opera
tions of student groups. Understandably, the 
JFC does not have the manpower nor the time 
to thoroughly research every Senate-Funded 
organization on campus. Yet, they make deci
sions on proposed budget allocations within 
several weeks. Thus the decisions they make 
are not based on the complete picture. At best, 
they rely on a brief, unrepresentative idea of 
what they think is a fair estimation.
As a result of these inefficient and ineffec
tive processes, many student groups find it 
incredibly difficult to sustain themselves and 
grow their organization. Given insufficient 
budgets to work with initially, each organiza
tion must meet a financial projection as deter
mined by the JFC each year. These projections 
are highly unreasonable to reach without the 
proper allocation of funding for the most basic 
expenses, such as capital equipment.
A problem lies in the process before and 
after the annual allocation of organization
budgets. Profits are extremely crucial to the 
backbone and growing independence of the 
respective student organizations. In addition 
to serving as a source of recognition for orga
nizations, profits promote responsibility with
in student organizations. Student organiza
tions that reap large profits should not be 
forced to give all their profit to Student Senate 
where it will eventually be redistributed to 
other student organizations or sit in a bank 
account, bringing about a $50,000 surplus.
When organizations are able to make more 
money than they anticipate, they should be 
rewarded for their hard work, not punished. 
Last year, when AB Coffeehouse performed 
well financially, the JFC responded by lower
ing their allocation for this year. It was only 
after a lengthy process that the organization 
was able to convince the JFC that their pro
posed allocation was simply not enough. The 
problem is that such red tape means that lead
ers of student organizations must spend their 
time dealing with Student Government 
bureaucracy rather than focusing on the needs 
of their organization.
These political games cause another problem 
for student organizations - the fear of JFCs 
power and the potential negative implications 
of getting on their bad side. While other stu
dent organizations have told The Tartan about 
concerns with the fiscal policy of Student 
Government, they did not wish to be named 
explicitly out of fear that it may harm their abil
ity to receive the necessary allocations to 
achieve their goals. No organization should be 
put in a position where speaking of their con
cerns can potentially hurt their financial health.
In general, because of the budgetary process, 
the JFC has too much power over individual 
organizations. While they try hard to adhere to 
a strict interpretation of the fiscal policy, this 
policy is often unrealistic and inconsistent with 
the needs of student organizations. Members 
of Student Government are competent individ
uals, but the task of ascertaining how each 
organization operates is too large a task. Under 
current fiscal policy, JFC has too much say in 
how student organizations operate. The 
process should be more decentralized, and JFC 
should leave budgetary decisions up to mem
bers of organizations who know first hand how 
the organizations must operate.
City Council must not impede 
vendors from offering services
The Pittsburgh City Council recently passed 
legislation that effectively makes it more diffi
cult for vendors to operate on the citys side
walks and streets. With this new ordinance, 
the city council may be disregarding the peo
ple negatively affected by these changes  a 
large group of these people include members 
of the CMU community. Frew and Tech Street 
vendors such as Srees, Open Flame, and 
Moonlight (which has been at its location for 
14 years) are in danger of losing the right to 
occupy the locations they currently hold.
The presence of these food vendors on 
CMUs campus is a boon to the campus com
munity, because they provide a variety of food 
options to the community. Fewer vendors 
mean fewer options for students, faculty, and 
staff. These people certainly deserve the kind 
of variety that the vendors provide, and this 
kind of restriction on the vendors is a great 
blow to the large numbers who frequent the 
CMU vans during lunch hours.
There are other reasons why vendors should 
not be impeded from providing their services. 
In the case of CMU, they provide competitive 
pricing that keeps Dining Services in check. In 
addition, councilmen claim they want to 
reclaim some of the spaces for public use. 
However, these vendors do not take up 
enough space to highly impact things like 
parking. One councilmen said that the ven
dors detract from the university environment 
at the University of Pittsburgh. However, 
much like at CMU, they seem to provide added 
benefit to the Pitt community.
Before passing the legislation, City Council 
did a poor job of informing the community, 
especially the vendors themselves, about this
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Melton's Student Newspaper Since igo6 
EDITORIAL BOARD
ISH HARSHAWAT, 
SETH MANDEL, Managing Editor 
SARA STILLE, News Editor 
CHRISTINA KOSHZOW, Forum Editor 
CHRISTOPHER CHUNG, Sports Editor 
JOANNA SMILEY, Co-Arts & Living Editor 
ANDY FRANCIS, Co-Arts & Living Editor 
SRIRAM GOLLAPALLI, Science & Technology Ed. 
BRAD GRANTZ, Business Editor 
GREG NOFI, Entertainment Editor 
. JUSTIN SUISSA, Art Editor 
BRYAN KAPLAN, Photo Editor 
ASEEM GUPTA, Online Editor 
CHRIS MESSINA, Online Design Editor 
MICHAEL ZIMMER, Dossier Design Editor 
LAURA MARTIN, Dossier Co-Literary Editor 
JOSEPH TAGUE, Dossier CO'Literary Editor 
JENNIFER LIU, Advertising Manager 
BALAJI SARPESHKAR, Copy Manager
Editor-in-Chief
ASHA PATHAK, Business Manager 
BLAKE ENGEL, Personnel Manager 
LANCE BROWN, Production Manager 
KAI ZHENG, Systems Manager 
BETTY KIM, Darkroom Manager 
ERIN SZETO, Special Projects Manager 
PRESTON TREICHEL, Asst. Sports Editor 
BETH POWELL, Asst. Entertainment Editor 
SRIRAM VAIDHYANATHAN, Asst. Science & Tech Ed. 
VINCENT CHAN, Asst. Advertising Manager 
SHAINA MCGRATH, Assistant Photo Editor 
PETER WANG, Asst. Darkroom Manager 
SARA HENNEBERGER, Asst. Production Mgr.
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS 
Elaine Boland, Matt Brun,Behnam Farahpour, 
Bradley Fearn, Cassandra Knight, Christopher 
May, Lorelei Laird, Jonathan Pearce, Anne Ray, 
Erica Yamada
ordinance. One vendor said he did not find out 
about the ordinance until he saw it on televi
sion. Councilmen like Dan Cohen, who sup
ported this legislation, run the risk of enforc
ing an ordinance that is not in the best inter
ests of their constituents. Even worse, since 
passing the legislation, Council has done an 
inadequate job of following up with necessary 
input-gathering from people the legislation 
will affect. People were able to "nominate" 
vendors until December 1, 2000 but this 
would not necessarily mean the vendors 
would keep their spots.
City Council should reconsider this piece of 
legislation. Although the city owns the streets 
around CMUs campus, it is detrimental to the 
campus community for these vendors to disap
pear. City Council should adjust the deadline 
for nomination to allow for the campus and to 
have a full chance to respond to the ordinance.
The University administration has said that 
it does not mind these vendors; in fact, it sup
ports their presence. This should send a mes
sage to City Council that this legislation is not 
in the best interest of members of the CMU 
community, and upon further investigation 
the Council might find that others in the city 
do not support the legislation either.
The street vendors complement Universitysupported dining services, who cannot provide 
the full range of eating options that the CMU 
community desires. With this ordinance, City 
Council risks hurting the University environ
ment if they follow through with the legislation 
as it stands. Upon closer inspection, the city 
might find that the vendors provide an added 
benefits to other parts of the city, and so should 
not be hindered from offering their services.
Justin Suissa/Art Editor
Gores must win moves taint U.S. elections
Damian Olesnycky
I think he said it best in a remark he 
made to one of his aides last year. Im not 
like George Bush. If he wins or loses, life 
goes on. Ill do anything to win.
Vice President A1 Gore has certainly 
proven this assertion true over the span of 
his political career. Whether it comes in the 
form of a lie, exaggeration, crime, or major 
change of stance, Gore has never had a 
problem with stooping to new lows in 
gaining an unfair advantage. In his latest 
travesty, the 2000 Presidential election, 
the Vice President has managed to outdo 
himself once again. Gore has managed to 
cap a notably crooked run for office by cre
ating and sustaining a partisan fistfight 
over the presidency of the United States.
Before getting into the specifics of the 
post-election circus, it should be noted 
that Gore would be nowhere in this situa
tion without the unwavering support of 
the Democratic Party and its supporters 
nationwide. Why so many good, honest 
people have so much trust for a man who 
repeatedly lied on his way to victory over 
Bill Bradley in the primaries and exagger
ated relentlessly during the presidential 
debates (and even admitted to it) is a dif
ficult question to answer. Unfortunately, 
this legal scratching and clawing, over 
control of the White House is an effort 
spearheaded by the Vice President. 
Disappointingly, he and his supporters 
are showing no signs of letting up.
The post-election mess is the result of 
the Gore campaign sidestepping Florida 
election laws in their vote recounting tac
tics. The undeniable partisanship that 
exists in the states Court system and can
vassing boards is what allows this illegal 
maneuvering to take place. By ordering 
hand recounts in the states four most 
populous democratic counties alone, the 
Vice President broke the laws established 
by the Florida legislature on how manual 
recounts must be conducted.
If Gore really desired a full, accurate, 
and fair recount for the state of Florida, 
he would adhere to statutory election law 
and have the entire states votes recount
ed. I find it a curious coincidence that I
will hopefully be reversed by the U.S. 
Supreme Court this week) reek of parti
sanship, but also the legislative branch 
overstepped its boundaries as defined by 
the Constitution. It is the legislatures job 
to create and enact laws, while the courts 
are there to interpret them. Instead of car
rying out their rightful duty, the Florida 
Supreme Court justices played politics. 
The ruling created a dangerous precedent 
in common law that in effect allows 
judges to let subjective recounting contin
ue for as long as they choose.
Whats even worse is that the Gore camIts time for Al Gore to take a page out of 
Richard Nixons book and hang it up.
havent heard a single Democrat mention 
the Florida Panhandle or Duval County 
(the states Republican strongholds) dur
ing this entire debacle.
Another problem with the whole 
recount process is its failure to comply 
with the mandatory deadlines (also spec
ified explicitly in Florida law) for when 
the tallies need to be submitted. When 
the recounts failed to be completed by 5 
pm of the seventh day after the election* 
as the law holds, the new vote totals 
should not have been counted. The 
Democrats, however, pressed on. They 
took their challenge of the vote certifica
tion to the Florida Supreme Court, which 
consists of seven justices, all of whom are 
Democrats. Sadly, the Court decided to 
arbitrarily extend the deadline to the fol
lowing Sunday at 5 pm, after which the 
recount must be certified.
Not only did the courts ruling (which
paign has gone back to court to decertify 
the Florida vote count again. Now they 
want the vote recounts that missed the 
arbitrarily established deadline to be 
counted. Will they ever give up? It doesnt 
look like it.
Its time for Al Gore to take a page out of 
Richard Nixons book and hang it up. Gore 
lost on election night, then in the machine ! 
recount, and then in the manual recount 
his comrades (note the communist innu
endo) in the judicial branch generously 
granted him. This is the United States of 
America, not a banana republic. Those 
who enforce our laws should not tolerate 
politicians trying to shape the outcome of 
an election. At least its a fair and accu
rate expectation for them to do so.
Damian Olesnycky is a senior social and 
decision sciences major. He welcomes all 
responsible replies to his article.
Government inconsistency is the only constant
CZJ-.5: V^rjrt^cKD
Christian Restifo
Since its the end of the semester, I 
thought that Id use this final column to 
tie up some loose ends and discuss a few 
items that dont merit full-length 
columns. All three have to do with gov
ernment, namely the Federal Drug 
Administration, the Supreme Court, and 
our very own Graduate Student Body.
First up is the Federal Food and Drug 
Administration. Early in November, the 
FDA urged manufacturers of over-thecounter cold and diet pills containing 
phenolpropanolamine (PPA) to discontin
ue selling them. The FDA also warned 
that it would be moving to ban PPA from 
such products in the future.
The FDAs move stems from a Yale 
study, ironically funded by an industry 
group, which found a link between a rare 
form of stroke and PPA. Women who took 
diet pills with PPA were 16 times more 
likely to suffer a stroke than those who did 
not. By banning PPA, the FDA estimates it 
will prevent 200-500 strokes a year.
While this sounds like a noble cause, 
the move shows the sheer stupidity of the 
FDA. The study contained serious flaws 
that bring into question the results. For 
example, researchers talked to stroke vic
tims to find out what medications they 
took before the stroke. From this data, 
they pulled out which substances were 
used. However, one very rarely finds PPA 
in a drug by itself. Often, cold medication 
will also contain such substances as pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, or clemas
tine fumarate. Pseudoephedrine is a stim
ulant that raises blood pressure just like 
PPA, yet the researcher made no effort to 
rule it out. No mention was made of a 
possible drug interaction.
The results also show that cold medi
cine poses little threat. While you may 
have heard the 16 times number thrown 
around, women who take PPA in the form 
of decongestants are only 1.29 times as 
likely to suffer a stroke. Given the statis
tics, Id say thats insignificant.
Finally, the study never really 
addressed the issue of metabolic 
changes (and thus consequences) from 
taking diet pills that may have had a 
part. The fact that the study excluded 
men who took diet pills also calls its 
validity into question.
Why does this concern me? I cant take 
ephedrine-type substances like pseu
doephedrine or phenylephrine. They 
cause headaches, the shakes, general 
malaise, sleeplessness, irritability, rapid 
heartbeat, shallow breathing, high blood 
pressure and the like. If they do the same 
to you, then we are in the lucky one per
cent of the population that relies on PPA.
Things arent all that bad in the world, 
though. While the FDAs action on PPA 
could pose a stroke threat to most 
Americans, the U.S. Supreme Court has 
somewhat restored the health of the 
Fourth Amendment. In a 6-3 decision, 
the Court struck down Indianapolis 
arbitrary searches of automobiles for 
drugs that I wrote about in a previous 
column.
The Court noted that the searches were 
overreaching in their scope and violated 
peoples rights. While the Court upheld 
such things as sobriety check points, it 
found that Indianapolis drug searches 
were conducted without probable cause 
and without a greater public safety in 
mind. If the Court had let the searches 
stand, however, it would have given 
police the green light to engage in blanket 
searches that were nothing more than 
fishing expeditions.
Of course, were not out of the clear yet, 
and those who supported Bush in the 
election would do well to note how the
judges voted. The three most conserva
tive judges voted to actually keep the 
roadblocks. Bush will most likely win the 
election, and hell then have the opportu
nity to appoint up to three judges. Similar 
issues regarding privacy could result in 
votes of 3-6 in favor of the roadblocks.,I ; 
wonder how that fits into Bushs I trust 
people, not the government mentality...
And finally, closer to home, we have 
GSAs refusal to provide money during 
Homecoming for the free Blues Traveler 
concert. Im still trying to figure out this 
one. In a letter to The Tartan, a GSA offi
cer detailed the reasons for the vote to 
not contribute. Among the issues were 
the fact that not many graduate stu
dents would know who Blues Traveler 
was and the fact that non-CMU people 
may have attended the concert. They 
didnt want GSA money providing a ben
efit to non-CMU people.
Im wondering how GSA arrived at the 
conclusion that not very many graduate 
students would know who Blues Traveler 
is. It is (or was, if youre not a fan) a pret
ty popular band. Of course, any such con
clusion is bunk, because the popularity of 
the band is irrelevant. It doesnt matter if | 
its Blues Traveler, George Clinton and the 
P-Funk All Stars, or Junior Wells. This was 
a free concert during Homecoming that 
all members of the CMU community 
could enjoy.
Since non-CMU people also pose a 
threat to graduate students, I think GSA 
should work with the administration to ; 
ban non-CMU people from attending 
seminars, recitals, and the like. After all, ; 
these moochers derive a benefit off the 
backs of graduate students without con
tributing to the CMU community. I know 
that as a graduate student, I dont want | 
them on campus!
Christian M. Restifo is a first-year Flex- i 
Time MBA student at GSIA.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  DECEMBER 4, 2000
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Since igo6 
SENIOR STAFFEmily Landes
STAFFWRITERSSara Amodio, Neil Babra, Clinton Brownley, Cliff Chien, Krissy Choi, Michael Cook, Cam Crews, Rob Cullen, Frank J. Fleming, Ryan Friedman, Debra Halpern, LaRita Hamilton, Ryan Hamilton, Cynthia Kos, Erin Lucas, Sean Mintus, Damian Olesnycky, Peter Patterson, Jodi Poniewaz, Srinivas Pullela, Jennifer Resick, Christian Restifo, Paul Richelmi, Jennifer Schaupp, Danny A. Silitonga, Surya Singh, Lynn Tao, Cory Tong
ARTMatthew Blum, Lindsay Clark, Jamie Divine, Adam Grossi, Reagan Heller, Gabriel Sabourin, Alissa Taylor
COMICSAvinash Baliga, Kevin Bums, Yang Cai, Martin Hock, James Kenney, Ann Lewis, To Han Lu, Neal Martin, Jason Slater
PHOTOKatie Aerni, Erica Barnes, Jeff Cullers, Anthony DAuria, Anjanelle Delancey, Emily Gensheimer, Matthew Lanken, Nuri Miller, Michael Raisman, Matthew Trentacoste
DARKROOMEric Barker
PRODUCTION Eve Chen, John Davin, Serena Lam, Douglas Yung
COPYStacey Becker, Joyce Boss, Kristin Lala, Meredith Powers, Emma Rehm, Julie Watt
JUNIOR STAFF David Anderson, Sharad Bajaj, Andy Baker, Thomas Capasso, Brad Cohen, Dave del Rosario, Dave DiFilippo, Aseem Garg, Melissa Horne, John Hursh, Lirona Katzir, Christopher Kim, Anish Kumar, Elizabeth Levin, Charles Martin, Andrew McKeon, Julia Myers, Rob Pinkerton, Mithun Shenoi, RJ Sikdar, Marissa Staller, Adam Steele, Sabrina Small, Sharon Su, Vivek Sridharan, Yinglan Tan, Tifanie Tiberio, Sean Waters, Daniel Wood
The Tartan is the student newspaper of 
Carnegie Mellon University. It is a weekly 
newspaper published by students during the 
fall and spring semesters, at no cost to mem
bers of the University community. It is print
ed by Western Pennsylvania Printing, Inc. 
Subscriptions are available for the semester 
or academic year. The editorials appearing at 
the beginning of the opinion section are the 
official opinion of The Tartan editorial board. 
Columns and political cartoons are the opin
ions of individual creators. The Tartan 
reserves the right to reject or condense any 
column or political cartoon. Letters to the 
Editor are opinions of authors who are usual
ly, but not necessarily, members of the 
University community. A letter intended for 
publication must be signed and include the 
writers address and phone number for verifi
cation. Names may be withheld upon 
request. The Tartan requests that letters be 
no longer than 350 words. The Tartan 
reserves the right to condense or reject any 
letter. Letters to the Editor must be submit
ted by 5 pm the Thursday before publica
tion. Copyright  2000 by The Tartan. The 
Tartan editorial board reserves the right to 
withhold from publication any copy it deems 
unfit for publication. Office: University 
Center Room 314. Phone: 412/268-2111. 
Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/Carnegie 
Mellon University/Pittsburgh, PA 15213- 3890.
Email: tartan@andrew.cmu.edu 
Funded in part by your Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress 
ISSN#:0890-3107.
The Tartan is a member of 
the Associated Press.
&*()@#$*
Countless joys of smoking easily outweigh any health hazards
gvyU twreSvti.lll
: By.- Sean Mintus
As of late, Ive had many people 
tell me that all I do is complain, 
'that I never choose to admit any 
admirable aspects of, much less 
advocate, anything. So, without 
going into the irony of complain
ing about someone else complain
ing, I will now sate the ravenous 
desires of those of you who feel 
the need to foolishly vindicate 
stuff and share the love I have 
recently found.
Those who read this crap on a 
weekly basis might remember 
that earlier in the year, I con
fessed all of the various difficul
ties that I encountered while tak
ing up my new favorite habit, 
smoking. Yes, a few months ago, I 
was a poor novice in the ways of 
the cigarette. I was burning 
myself, dropping ash in the most 
inappropriate of places, and just 
failing to derive as much enjoy
ment out of smoking as, courtesy 
of all those billboards with pret;ty, happy, cigarette-holding peo
ple, I thought I should have.
 My oh my, how the times have 
changed. I am now a certified 
master smoker. I even got my certificate and card in the mail the 
'other day (charred and stained
beyond recognition, but nice 
nonetheless).
But, seriously, I have formed a 
powerful bond with nicotine. 
More over, during the course of 
my education, I have begun to 
realize neat little tricks, certain 
maneuvers hidden from the eyes 
of those who pay attention to 
their chest X-rays, but wellknown to us smokers.
For instance, when any attrac
tive female non-smokers walk by, 
I am amazingly deft at concealing 
the cigarette I happen to be smok
ing at the time. This leaves the 
lasses with the impression that I 
am a strapping young lad whose 
body has not been contaminated 
or teeth yellowed by that charm
ing camel fellow. This is a terribly 
tricky endeavor that involves 
holding the cigarette backwards 
and tucked up into the recesses of 
your coat sleeve. Luckily, at CMU 
I am not prompted to perform this 
ruse often.
Additionally, I can now amuse 
myself by flicking cigarette butts. 
For those of you who havent tried 
this one, please do. Its great. 
Once you have made your way 
through the luscious leafy com
panion, simply place the butt 
between your thumb and middle 
finger and send it airborne. Turn 
this into a game. Shoot for dis
tance or accuracy or somebodys 
eye. Its all in good fun. Ill have 
you know that my flicking dis
tance is rivaled by few, and as a 
result, I am now not only involved 
in a class action lawsuit concern
ing the untimely death of some
ones dachshund, but also a prime 
suspect in the downing of several 
single-engine aircraft in and 
around the Pittsburgh area.
But what impresses and amuses 
me the most is the ability of the 
cigarette to anger a person. Upon 
a non-smokers coming into con
tact with the fumes from these 
faultless assemblages of nicotine 
and tar, he or she seems to be 
deprived' of any and all sensibili
ty, acumen, or capacity for ratio
nal thought. Left to stand rapt in 
awe at the audacity it must take 
to smoke indoors, non-smokers 
are perhaps the best entertain
ment in the greater metropolitan 
area, screaming phrases like you 
should take that outside and 
dont you know that this is a
non-smoking building?
Of course I know that I should
nt smoke where I smoke. Thats 
why I am doing it. If nothing else 
has been made abundantly clear 
during my tenure here at the ugly 
plaid, I have at least shown my 
talent and love for pissing people 
off. And nothing ruffles the old 
feathers like smoking where you 
really shouldnt. Ill walk through
the UC or stroll down Baker, cig
arette ablaze and innocent look 
on my face until some random 
indignant jackass comes along 
and tells me, as if I were 
unaware, that I shouldnt be 
smoking inside.
Keeping in mind that I would 
rather bait a saltwater crocodile 
with my genitals than listen to this 
jerk bitch about foolish things like 
clean air or bodily health or per
sonal rights, I promptly display 
my two favorite fingers and go on 
my merry way until another one 
of them comes along, at which 
point the process is repeated.
Incidentally, legal action is also 
being pursued against yours truly 
for events surrounding someones 
attempt to physically remove a 
cigarette from my mouth, but I 
have been advised against dis
cussing the intricacies of said 
event in any public forum.
In closing, I would just like to 
make two brief statements. To 
those of you who smoke, keep it
up. You, along with me, are 
addicted to the drug that just 
keeps on giving, and no one 
should be allowed to infringe 
upon our right to cough up black 
chunks of our lungs if we so 
desire. And to those of you who 
dont smoke, start. Because you 
just dont understand.
Sean Mintus is a sophomore pro
fessional and creative writing 
major. He would like to thank 
Rebean, Mr. Tang, and D Gary for 
keeping him smoking when he just 
didnt think he could go on ... and 
for only 25 cents a pop.
Of course I know that I shouldnt smoke. Thats why I am 
doing it. If nothing else has been made abundantly clear... I 
have at least shown my talent and love for pissing people off.
Both Bush and Gore have managed to fail Americas people
Colbi Cannon
Junior
Architect
Ill probably just get showed in at 
home.
Eliyah Dobrusin
First-year student 
Mechanical Engineering
Ill probably go to Canada for New 
Years. Im going to work and just hang 
out.
David Blackwood
Junior
Industrial Design 
Im gonna go see my gal.
Susan Chudd
Junior
Psychology and Music
Im going home and spending time 
with my family.
CKeiS.T(AfO
Christopher May
Another week begins in the three-weekold search for a President as states-rights 
activist George Bush presses a purely state 
issue in the Supreme Court. Its sad that 
hypocrisies such as these are so common 
nowadays that this goes unnoticed.
The entire post-election struggle has 
been filled with selfishness and hypocrisy 
to the point that both men have disquali
fied themselves as statesmen, much to 
the self-satisfied nods of the cynical disen
chanted voters. As everyone knows, A1 
Gore should have conceded the election 
after the automatic Florida recount. I am 
a Gore supporter, and I think it is a shame 
that the popular vote winner was not vic
torious by a few hundred votes, but such is 
the way of the world. Concession in the 
face of clear defeat is the statesmanlike 
way to end a conflict and keep your 
nation strong.
Apparently this is not what A1 Gore 
thinks, he believes that just one more 
count will get an accurate tally where he 
wins. This may have been true, but even 
Richard M. Nixon, who had even more 
irregularities and also blatant fraud in the 
1960 election, stepped down for the good 
of his country.
I dont want any of you to think for even 
one minute that George W. Bush has been 
any better. Bush has been steadily proving 
that he will say anything to win, just like 
he accused Gore of doing. Bush says hand 
counts are inaccurate, and yet he signed 
into law a bill mandating them as the gold 
standard in close elections in Texas. Bush 
says he supports states-rights, yet he takes 
a state issue first to an Atlanta district 
court, and then to the U.S. Supreme 
Court. Bushs lawyers-say the appropriate 
time to contest an election is after its cer
tified, then when the election is certified 
they say Gore cant contest it.
As for Bushs bipartisanship promises, 
they have stretched as thin as we all knew
House in 2002.
Speaking of Washington, and their 
tricks, Mr. Bush, by declaring himself 
president-elect three times now, has 
shown how he is just as slippery as any 
Washingtonite. This was either a ploy to 
force the public to accept his election, or a 
spoiled brat who cannot accept that daddy 
and daddys legacy could not give him the 
White House. I prefer to think it is the first 
because if Bush is to be my leader I would 
like to hope that he is slippery, rather 
than spoiled and stubborn. However, if he 
did this to force the publics perception 
than he is acting just as bad as the 
Washington maneuvering that he has 
railed against. Are we sure we are getting 
four more years of new leadership with 
Bush, or just the same old thing dumbed 
down? I think Bushs behavior has already 
answered this question.
Curiously, the prize of the office is not 
what many people think it is. With nar
row Republican majorities in both Houses 
of Congress, no landmark legislation 
will be passed soon. Also, it is very likely 
that either candidates hundred-day 
honeymoon period will be either short
ened or corrupted, thereby further 
decreasing his ability to govern. This is, 
of course, assuming that the candidate 
even has a honeymoon at all  with no 
mandate, the public might not even give 
them that.
In essence, both parties have exhibited 
the need for a non-partisan electoral over
seeing commission so that the apparent 
conflicts of interest like Ms. Harriss will 
not occur. The only winner I can see of 
this mess would be Ralph Nader and other 
minority party movements, for which con
fusion and dissent are fertile soil. The 
clear losers of course, are the American 
people, who have to endure another 
degradation of the highest office of their 
land. This is something both candidates 
promised not to do.
Christopher May is a sophomore in the 
Science and Humanities Scholars Program. 
He welcomes all responsible replies to his 
article.
Its almost here, and its about time! To find out what everyone plans to do once 
finals are over, we asked:
What are you going to do over Winter Break?
A PERSONS OPINION
Compiled by Sara Stille 
Photos by Shaina McGrath
Regina Williams
Junior
Civil Engineering
Im going to work and go to New 
York City for New Years.
they were. Bushs election co-chair in 
Florida, Katherine Harris, is the Secretary 
of State and has been handing down proBush decisions from the beginning, not 
compromising on any point. She appears 
to not care to even put up the illusion of 
fairness. As for A1 Gores proposal that all 
the votes in Florida be recounted, which 
he was arguably not at liberty to make, 
Bush rejected it outright without even dis
cussing it as possible, thereby refusing to 
bleed off any of the hatred that had built 
up between the two camps. This was obvi
ously not a very bipartisan move. 
Apparently Bush skipped the class where
his advisors explained that bipartisanship 
is another word for compromise.
Gore meanwhile insists on recounts in 
heavily Democratic counties so that every 
vote will count and any freshman statis
tics major can tell you that this will 
inevitably skew the result. If they cannot 
recount all of Florida  and Bushs igno
rance will not let them  then Gore must 
accept defeat, like a noble presidential
Reagan Heller/Art Staff
candidate. Any other recount makes a 
mockery of Gores motto that every vote 
must be counted. Gore should have 
moved on and used this as political 
capital to unseat the Republicans in the

---------------------------------------------------

A8THE TARTAN  DECEMBER 4, 2000
Housing
Movie
Channel16
Movies, dates and times are available on CableTV Channel 3 and the Telecom web page - www.telecom.cc.cmu.edu/CableTV
And don't miss CItlUTV 
6:30 pm and 9:30 pm daily on the Housing Movie Channel.
Created and produced by Carnegie Mellon students for Carnegie Mellon students.
tSHADYSlDF.
Volumem95mu,Is
12Uun25121 Westminster Place  412-682-4300  wwui.shadysidepres.org:
another service of: in cooperation with:
Carnegie Mellon Student Dormitory Council
HOUSINlf SERVICES Carnegie Mellon Telecom
Allegheny takes 6-4 victory over 
Tartans in overly frigid conditions
HOCKEY, from page A10 
the Allegheny penalty box.
I would like to conclude by congratulating 
seniors associated with the team (including Scott 
Schneider, Dave Rice, Cliff Brangwynne and Aaron 
Hula), who never have to go to that godforsaken 
place again.
National Hockey League
This weekend Jaromir Jagr ended his scoreless 
streak in the two game series against Buffalo with 
a goal and two assists.
Although it breaks my heart to see someone who 
is not a Penguin on top of the scoring leader list, 1 
must admit Jagr was pretty amusing during his 
point drought. He made comments about dying 
alive and retiring  talk about being overdramatic. Perhaps he should take a look at entering CFA 
after hockey to harness such theatrics.
Regardless, I understand why he is upset. No one 
other than Mario Lemieux (yay), Wayne Gretsky 
(nay) and Jagr (yummy) has won the scoring title 
in the past 20 years. That would be a bitch of a 
record to lose.
Changing topics entirely, each week I pick a team 
in the Eastern Conference to tear apart. I find the 
Western Conference foreign and strange and, like 
most people, I fear that which I do not understand. 
Therefore I refrain from writing about Western 
Conference teams.
However, I do want to talk about expansion 
teams, both of which happen to be in the West. Of 
course, I am speaking about the Columbus Blue
Jackets and the Minnesota Wild.
I hate expansion teams. Many argue that thfey 
decrease the quality of play in the league, but I am 
just bitter about losing Tyler Wright, one of rify 
favorite players, in the expansion draft this year.
If someone wants to start a new team, fine, but 
they should not do it by pilfering other teams play
ers.
Not only that but they should come up with' a 
decent name. What the hell is a Blue Jacket? Tfr^y 
completely made that up! What is a Wild? That is 
not even something tangible. Can anyone out there 
even draw a picture of a wild? I think not.
However, to once again contradict myself, I do 
not mind that Minnesota received a team. This 
state is the birthplace of hockey in America and 
they had their beloved team stolen by a city in 
Texas.
Texas! A place where there is no natural ice, a 
place where they have beauty pageants for tod
dlers, a place that produces girls living on your 
freshman floor who put Dont Mess with Texas 
and God Loves Texas stickers on everyones doors 
while they were sleeping.
I cannot comprehend the pain Minnesotans have 
had to endure over the years due to this. Of course, 
I cant understand their accents either, but that is 
another column entirely.
Erin Lucas is a senior Business Administration and 
Professional Writing major. She would like to apolo
gize for offending Texans and asks they do not shoot 
her with their concealed handguns.
.reaming of a Right Christmas
Advent Sunday Worship 
Sundays, 11:00 am, Dec 3, 10, 17, 24
Candlelight Carol Service 
Sunday, Dec 17 at 4:00 pm 
Christmas Eve Early Service 
Sunday, Dec 24 at 5:00 pm 
Christmas Eve Candlelight Service 
Sunday, Dec 24 at 10:45 pm
Cit yiordn aci
Sunday, Dec 31 at 7:00 pm
Informal service of worship with Communion
Featured movies for DECEMBER
byCamre
wysmE
inSrrEz
Uarnejne Mel Ion. 
HOUSINlf SERVICES
TOY STORY 2 
PITCH BLACK 
THREE KINGS 
A CHRISTMAS STORY 
2001: A SPACE ODYSSEY 
THE THOMAS CROWN AFFAIR (1968) 
THE THOMAS CROWN AFFAIR (1999) 
NATIONAL LAMPOONS CHRISTMAS VACATION 
KIDS IN THE HALL: BRAIN CANDY\
SNOW FALLING ON CEDARS 
WAR OF THE WORLDS 
BOTTLE ROCKET 
QUIZ SHOW 
LASTORY

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  DECEMBER 4. 2000
classified
Travel
1 Spring Break Vacations! Best Prices Guaranteed! 
Cancn, |amaica, Bahamas & Florida. Sell Trips, 
Earn Cash & Co Free! Now hiring Campus Reps.
1 -800-234-7007 endlesssummertours.com
Spring Break 2001. Student Express offers Mexico, 
Jamaica, Florida, and Texas with low prices and the 
most reliable air. CAII today fo9r a brochure and 
ask how you can go for FREE !!1 1 -800-SURFS-UP or 
www.studenlexpress.com
SURVIVE SPRING BREAK 2001! All the hottest desti
nations/hotels! Campus sale representatives and 
student organizations wantedl Visit intercampus.com or call 1-800-327-6013 The Tribe has 
spoken!
For Sale
GET GREEK STUFF F*A*S*T! Connectsports.com 
ships your GREEK stuff fastest in the nation. Formal 
Favors, Sportwear and Paddles. 10am  8pm every
day. Save money and get fast service. 
Connectsports.com. 1-800-929-1897.
Opportunities
Earn free travel! Become an intern for Council 
Travel - flexible hours! Fill out application at 118 
Meyran Ave, Oakland, 683-6602 
Earn SI,000-52,000 this quarter with the easy
Campusfundraiser.com three hour fundraising 
event. No sales required. Fundrlaislng dates are 
filling quickly, so call today! Contact 
Campusfundralser.com at 1-888-923-3238, or visit 
www.campusfundralser.com.
Pittsburgh Dell Company 728 Copeland, Shadyside. 
Now hiring kitchen/counter positions. Reliable 25 
hrs/minimum. Call 412-682-3354 Ask for Scott, 
David, Geoffrey
Classified Rates
1-20 words........$10.00/wk
21-50 words........$12.00/wk
51-100 words......$15.00/wk
MAIL TO:
The Tartan, Box 17 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
 Classifieds must be paid in cash 
or check before first run date
 On-campus departments and 
organizations may pay by journal 
transfer
 Due by 5 pm the Thursday 
before publication
THE TARTAN 
268-2111Egg Donor Needed
$25,000 Compensation
:
We are a loving, infertile 
couple hoping to find a 
compassionate woman to 
help us have a baby.
We're looking for a 
healthy, Intelligent college 
student or college grad, 
age 21-33, with blue eyes 
and blonde or light brown 
hair. Your gift of life would 
bring great joy.
Please contact us through 
our representative at 
1.800.776.7680.
Frustrated by lotions, potions, gizmos or gadgets?
Yahr Electrolysis Center
Still the only permanent hair removal!
Jane G. Yahr, CPE Dr. Charles J. Yahr, CPE
Nationally Board Certified Daytime & Evening Appts.
(412) 422-4490
5824 Forbes Avenue
50 % offfirst visit with mention of this ad
Tartam nearly overcome Jays in final seconds
eimv from page A10
clinching three-point shot. With two seconds 
remaining, Polings desperate shot fell to right of 
the basket, and Hopkins escaped with a close 
,yictory.
Coach Wingen was impressed with the 
jartans ability to bounce back and compete 
very well following a poor effort at Davidson. 
In a game that went back and forth, the Tartans 
held a slim 60-56 lead with under six minutes to 
go, following a two pointer by first-year Russell 
Borum, the games leading scorer with 17 
points.
Over the next five minutes, the Blue Jays 
'outscored the Tartans 11-2, with seven of those
points by the Jays forward Steve Adams, who 
finished with 22 points total. During that span, 
Hopkins managed three straight offensive 
rebounds and converted six of six free throws.
The Blue Jays had extended their lead to 
71-66 when the dramatic final posessions were 
played.
[At] the end of the game, coach Tony 
Wingen said, I felt we did a pretty good job of 
managing the clock, keeping things close at the 
end. We did not get the shot we wanted right at 
the end of the game, but it shouldnt have come 
down to that.
The Tartans have been looking for a floor 
leader and they may have found a few young
players to lead them. Marc Tata, first-year Matt 
Kaipz, first-year Brian McKinney, and Borum 
combined to score the Tartans final 17 points 
over the last eight minutes of the game.
Wingen pointed out that their pressure 
defense was very good but the Tartans need to 
work on their rebounding.
He added, I felt like our inside guys are doing 
a good job of getting themselves free but theyve 
got to put the ball in the basket, and we are not 
finishing like we need to inside.
The loss drops the Tartans to 1-4 on the sea
son with big UAA conference games coming up 
against Emory, Washington, and Chicago during 
the winter recess.
Near-wins frustrate 
5-2 womens team
Marcia Velencia plays the ball down low against Johns Hopkins yesterday 
WOMEN, from page A10
Byers led all players with 10 rebounds, and also contributed 12 points 
on 5-9 shooting.
The Tartans faced off with 1-4 Thiel College in Skibo Gymnasium last 
Friday evening, and the two teams played evenly for the first half, which 
ended with the score tied, 26-26. The Tartans were on the offensive, 
matching Thiels scoring output despite shooting only 38.5 percent, 
compared to Thiels 52.4 percent. But the Tartans capitalized on all 
their opportunities in the second half, shooting 65.5 percent, and 
outscoring Thiel 44-30. The Tartans came away with the 70-56 win, 
and upped their record to 5-1. The Tartans were 8-13 for the game in 
three-point field goals, led by Sodinis 4-5 from downtown. She also 
led scorers with 16 points, nine assists, and six rebounds.
The Tartans game against Johns Hopkins exposed some of the few 
weaknesses that they have dealt with so far this season. In the upcom
ing games, the women look to work on playing consistently strong.
The women have one more game before final exams and a brief break, 
on December 12 at Hiram College. After break, they attend the Oberlin 
College Tournament on December 29-30, then open the new year with a 
flurry of University Athletic Association conference games against 
Emory University, University of Chicago, and Washington University.Sophomore forward Ross Freeman fought hard in yesterdays game with Johns Hopkins, hitting the floor for possessions and soaring for the ball.
What a
% ** yu are not a Student Advantage Member, enjoy a one 
time savings of 10% when you present this coupon and OFF your valid student I.D.
Tickets must be purchased between November 1, 2000 and December 18, 2000, for travel from 
November 1, 2000 through January 31, 2001.
Original coupon must be surrendered at the time of purchase. 
Offer valid for select trains only  Nat valid, on unreserved NEC service, 
Metro!iner* Acela Express; Acela" Regional, Auto Train? Canadian portion of joint 
AmtrakA/IA* service, 7000 & 8000 series Thruway Services, multi-ride fare plans and any 
other discounts or promotions. Offer non-refundable after payment is made. Valid for 
Business Class and Sleeping Car upon payment of full application accommodation 
charge. Other restrictions may apply. Amtrak is a registered service mark of the National 
Railroad Passenger Corporation.
TRAVEL AGENTS: access your GDS for complete details: G/PRO/STH/P1-PS; Sabre: 
Y/PRO/STH/P1-P8. Attach coupon to auditor's coupon; if electronically reporting, attach 
to agent coupon. All Travel Agents and Amtrak Ticketing Agents please return the 
coupon to: Amtrak Customer Segmentation, 10 G Street, NE, Washington, DC 20002.
Name:
Address:
State: _
E-mail:_
ARC # 8 554 270 0000 080 0Mention Code: H080^AMTRAK
"Not valid on peak weekday Metroliner* or Acela Express1 Trains and Canadian portions of trains operated jointly by Amtrak and VIA Rail Canada, or on connecting services via non-Amtrak carriers.
Enjoy the comfort and convenience of traveling with 
f Amtrak this holiday season.
t Student Advantage Members save 15%* on rail fares to over 500 destinations all year 
long, including the holidays. To join Student Advantage, call 1-877-2JOIN-SA or visit 
studentadvantage.com.
For Amtrak" information and reservations, call 1-800-USA-RAIL or visit www.amtrak.com.

---------------------------------------------------

4 December 2000THE TARTANPage Aio
Johns Hopkins Jays too much for basketball teams to handle
Tartan women suffer year's second loss Men drop close game against Blue Jays
by Christopher Chung
bsSryt T,eySr
The womens basketball team 
couldnt capitalize on Sundays 
meeting against Johns Hopkins 
University, and lost another unsat
isfying and frustrating game 
against a team the players believe 
they should have defeated.
First-year guard Carissa Sain, the 
teams leading scorer with 13 
points, said, Were disappointed. 
We could have won, but we didnt.
Before yesterdays 63-58 loss, the 
women had been performing well, 
defeating Waynesburg College 
80-59 last Sunday. The win added 
to the Tartans unbeaten record to 
make it 4-0. Their previous three 
wins came in the CMU Tip-Off tour
nament (two wins over Penn StateAltoona and Chatham College), and 
at Juniata College on November 21.
Last Wednesday, the Tartans suf
fered their first loss of the season at 
Grove City in a close 57-54 contest. 
The Wolverines led the Tartans 
throughout, building their lead up 
to eight points with seven minutes 
left in the game.
Sophomore guard Michelle 
Sodini (5-8 shooting, 14 points, 
three steals) hit a clutch threepointer with 26 seconds left in the 
game to give the Tartans their first 
lead, 54-52. The Wolverines Kristy 
Kegg answered back with a threepointer of her own, and the Tartans 
were unable to recover. Grove City 
hit two more free throws with five 
seconds remaining to cement the 
victory.
Sophomore forward Erin Brady 
led scorers with 16 points, and 
added three blocks and eight 
rebounds in 40 minutes. Beth 
See WOMEN, page A9
Jeff Cullers/Photo Staff :
First-year guard Brian McKinney raises up for a short jumper, as Blue Jay defenders vyatch.
Jeff Cullers/Photo Staff
The Tartans' Erin Brady makes a move to the basket in the Tartans 63-58 
loss to Johns Hopkins University yesterday afternoon.
by RJ Sikdar
hvMeSr byCaamreywr
The Tartan mens basketball 
team was in a dogfight for 40 min
utes in yesterday afternoons game 
against Johns Hopkins, but, in the 
final seconds, the Blue Jays simply
outlasted them.
Three days after being shut 
down 88-41 against Division I 
school Davidson, the Tartans 
bounced back''well against a solid 
Hopkins team. The contest, 
played in Skibo Gymnasium, came 
down to junior John Polings last 
second three-pointer.
With a only three seconds left in 
the game, sophomore guard Marc 
Tata drained a three-point basket 
to cut the score to 71-69.
When the Blue Jays mishandled 
the inbounds, the Tartans got one 
last chance to make a game-tying 
two-point field goal, or gameSee MEN, page A9.
Florida State matched with unbeaten Oklahoma in Orange Bowl
(AP)  Florida State always seems to be 
in the mix no matter what system college 
football uses to decide a national champi
on.
For the fourth time in the last five sea
sons, the No. 3 Seminles (11-1) will play 
for a national title  this time against No. 
1 Oklahoma (12-0) in the Orange Bowl on 
January 3.
The Bowl Championship Series system 
of rating teams using polls, computers, 
schedule strength and losses, placed the 
Seminles second behind the Sooners in its 
final standings released Sunday.
The matchup creates the possibility of 
split national champions. The AP media 
poll and the coaches poll have Oklahoma 
and Miami ranked 1-2. If Florida State 
beats Oklahoma and Miami beats Florida 
in the Sugar Bowl on January 2, theres a 
chance for co-champions.
The AP polls sports writers and broad
casters vote independently of the BCS, but 
the coaches poll crowns the Orange Bowl 
winner as its champion.
Florida State coach Bobby Bowden 
understands his team could share a nation
al title with the Hurricanes, who beat the 
Seminles 27-24 on October 7. Still, he 
says the BCS formula proves his team 
deserves to play in Miami.
Everything was run through the com
puter, Bowden said. We had nothing to 
do with it. The facts were fed in during the 
season and it came out ranking us second. 
We will accept that.
Its No. 1 vs. No. 2 in the BCS and if we 
were to beat Oklahoma, then I think we 
should be No. 1 in the nation in the BCS. 
But that probably wont happen in the AP 
unless Florida beats Miami.
Oklahoma, the nations only major 
unbeaten team after its 27-24 win over 
Kansas State in the Big 12 title game
Saturday night, is gunning for its sixth 
national title and first since 1985.
The teams last met in the Orange Bowl in 
1981, with the Sooners winning 18-17.
Other BCS bowl matchups also were 
announced, along with most remaining 
bowl pairings.
In one of the more intriguing games, 
Miami (10-1) and Florida (10-2) renew a 
heated rivalry that ended in 1987. The Big 
East champion Hurricanes and SEC cham
pion Gators are scheduled to play again in 
2002.
Because Florida State beat Florida 30-7, 
Miami may need to win by a similar or 
greater margin to have a chance at a co
national title.
In the Fiesta Bowl on January 1, its No. 5 
Oregon State (10-1) vs. No. 10 Notre Dame 
(9-2), putting both schools in a BCS game 
for the first time, and leaving No. 6 Virginia 
Tech (10-1) with a Gator Bowl date against
No. 16 Clemson (9-2).
The Rose Bowl on Jan. 1 has been set for 
weeks  No. 4 Washington (10-1) vs. No. 
14 Purdue (8-3).
Other bowl matchups:
Citrus (January 1): Michigan vs. Auburn 
Cotton (January 1): Tennessee vs. Kansas 
State
Gator (January 1): Virginia Tech vs. 
Clemson
Outback (January 1): Ohio State vs. 
South Carolina 
Independence (December 31): Texas 
A&M vs. Mississippi State 
Silicon Valley (December 31): Fresno 
State vs. Air Force 
Alamo (December 30): Nebraska vs. 
Northwestern 
Holiday (December 29): Texas vs. Oregon 
Liberty (December 29): Colorado State 
vs. Louisville 
Peach (December 29): Georgia Tech vs.
LSU
Sun (December 29): UCLA vs. Wisconsin 
Humanitarian (December 28): Boise 
State vs. Texas El-Paso 
insight.com (December 28): Iowa State 
vs. Pittsburgh 
Micronpc (December 28): Minnesota, vs. 
North Carolina State 
Music City (December 28): West Virginia 
vs. Mississippi 
galleryfurniture.com (December 27): 
Texas Tech vs. East Carolina 
Motor City (December 27): Marshall vs. 
Cincinnati 
Aloha (December 25): Arizona State vs. 
Boston College 
Oahu (December 24): Virginia vs.; 
Georgia
Las Vegas (December 21): UNLV vs. j 
Arkansas
Mobile Alabama (December 20): TCU vs. j 
Southern Mississippi
Tartan defense warms late to frigid weather; 
Allegheny gets breaks and takes 6-4 victory
The Hockey Report
by Erin Lucas
Saturday night, the Carnegie 
Mellon ice hockey team took the 
long trip to Meadville, 
Pennsylvania in order to play 
Allegheny College.
The game was well-fought and 
fun to watch as long as you were 
not one of the spectators who 
sustained frostbite.
I concede that at times I am 
prone to exaggeration, but no 
words can possibly convey how 
ungodly cold the Meadville arena 
is. Imagine the 18-degree weath
er of that night, coupled with 
aggressive air conditioning  
and youre still not even close.
Moving on, hockey is a strange 
sport where bounces of the puck 
and lucky breaks occasionally 
seem to go in the favor of one 
team consistently for the dura
tion of the game. This happens in 
all levels, from my brothers 12- 
year-old league to the NHL. 
Saturday night was an example 
of this phenomenon.
Odd reflections and unfore
seen bounces all seemed to go in 
Alleghenys favor, and they took 
advantage of them.
In the first period the Gators 
piled up four goals. The majority 
of tfcem were the direct result of
capitalizing on lucky breaks; you 
cant fault them for that.
Things looked very bad for the 
Tartans going into the second 
period. However, first-years 
Jamie Bretz and Mike Nollen 
each contributed a goal for 
Carnegie Mellon, cutting the 
Allegheny lead in half. The periless. Of course, I am choosing not 
to count the non-existent goal 
that the Meadville referees gave 
Allegheny.
On the play, the CMU players 
claimed that the puck did not 
enter the net, but their pleas fell 
on deaf ears. Perhaps it was a 
Christmas present from the refs
Hockey is a strange sport where bounces 
of the puck and lucky breaks occasionally 
seem to go in the favor of one team con
sistently for the duration of the game. 
This happens in all levels, from my broth
ers 12-year old league to the NHL.
od was pretty even in shots and 
scoring chances. Although the 
team had many opportunities, 
Allegheny only gained one addi
tional goal.
Carnegie Mellon won the third 
period as well, with another pair 
of goals courtesy of Bretz and 
Nollen.
The Tartan defense, consisting 
of Cliff Brangwynne, Marc 
Piccolino, Chris Killam, Noble 
Shore, Aaron Hula, and Paul 
Shatlock, kept Allegheny score
to Allegheny, who got a 6-4 vic
tory.
Carnegie Mellons Coach Fred 
Maddalena had much to say after 
the game, We drove two and a 
half hours through the freezing 
cold and spotted them four goals 
in the first. The refs gave them a 
goal. . . We had a nice comeback 
and almost won. A couple for us 
should have gone in, they missed 
by a quarter inch. We should 
have won this game.
I suppose one could argue
about why Allegheny won this 
game: luck, biased referees, and 
so on and so forth. However, I 
have developed my own theory 
which I am certain is correct, as 
all my theories usually are.
I seem to remember hearing 
about one of those weird non-ice 
outdoorsy sports like football or 
baseball where some city out 
west has a huge home field 
advantage because their players 
are used to the thinner air appar
ent in the high altitude city. I 
believe Allegheny uses a .similar 
strategy.
By keeping their rink freakishly 
cold, somehow the Allegheny 
players become used to it over 
the years.
Meanwhile, no normal human 
being can operate at full capacity 
under these conditions. I know 
that in the stands I sustained 
paralysis from the waist down 
during the third period from the 
cold.
Player Dave Hennessy con
firmed my idea after the game, 
saying, The other team has 
developed a super-secret cross
breeding program with polar 
bears, designed to produce hock
ey players impervious to the 
cold. I suppose that would 
explain the tank of baby seals in 
See HOCKEY, page A8
Administration
Intramural Director: Mike
Mastroianni, x8-2214 or mma8+ 
Assistant Director: Mike
Grzywinski, x8-2214 or immike+ 
Secretary: Amy Kiryk, x8-2053 or 
kiryk+
Intramural Board President: Mike 
Edwards, x2-2993 
Intramural Vice President: Ryan 
Jackson
Womens President: Amy Tsao
Important Dates
Monday, December 4 - Finals in 
three-person volleyball 
Wednesday, December 6 - IM 
board meeting at 12:30 pm in the 
gym conference room 
Thursday, January 25, 2001 - 
Basketball, floor hockey, and fac
ulty grad volleyball rosters due in 
the IM office by 4:30 pm.
Sports in Season
Foosball - The playoffs schedules 
are out. Please play games as 
scheduled and report scores to the 
IM Office.
Chess - Playoff schedules are out. 
Please play matches and report 
scores to the IM Office.
Table Tennis, Call Pool, Spades, 
and Darts - Matches for table ten
nis, call pool, and darts end this 
-------------------------------4-----------
week. Playoffs will be available at 
noon Wednesday. Spades will be 
posted next week.
Three-person volleyball - The 
schedules are out. This year the 
format has changed to a double 
elimination tournament. Brackets 
are available at the IM Office. 
Games begin tonight.
Sports Completed
Bowling - The season was com
pleted before Thanksgiving. The 
champion was KDR Holy Rollers.
Water Polo - The finals were held 
Monday night at the UC Pool. The 
minors champ was Sig Ep and DU 
Word won the majors title for the 
sixth straight year.
Racquetball - The racquetball 
finals were held this past week. 
The majors champ was SASA and 
the womens champ was Pioneers 
A. The minors champ will be 
reported in the next Tartan.
All Sports Total through Tennis
Kappa Sigma -1183 
PiKA-1175 
Omega - 858 
Beta - 800 
Theta Xi - 750
Womens
Tartan Hoopers -1366 
Pioneers -1250 
F.T.H. -1117
All email rosters must be submitted
24 hours prior to the deadline. I 
 1

---------------------------------------------------

Arts - Living
, December 2000THE TARTANSection B
History professor kidnapped during 
Amnesty International demonstration
by Ish Harshawat
T,eySrReMRKcewa
Scott Sandage, a professor in the history depart
ment, had posters with his face on them plastered 
all over campus in the days before Thanksgiving. 
But instead of advertising a new class in the History 
of Rock n Roll, the posters showed Sandage with 
duct tape over his mouth and proclaimed that the 
professor had been kidnapped for his beliefs.
At about 1:15 pm on Monday, November 20, 
Sandage was taken from his class by a group of 
masked students and was held in custody for a few 
hours after in a maximum secu
rity location on campus.
Who were the people responsi
ble for this defiant act? Members 
of the CMUs chapter Amnesty 
International, an organization 
dedicated to human rights.
Normally, this would seem a 
strange paradox. It does not, at 
first, seem to make much sense 
that human rights advocates 
would kidnap a professor for his 
beliefs.
! In fact, the kidnapping was a 
publicity event sponsored by the 
Amnesty chapter. At 4:30 pm on 
the same day of the kidnapping,
Amnesty held a mock press conference where 
Sandage was officially released. Aseem Garg, a 
junior in public policy and computer science and 
urgent action coordinator for the organization, 
played the role of Joseph Nixon, a member of the 
fictitious Government Protection Agency (GPA).
Garg explained that the agency arrested Sandage 
on the grounds of incitement to anti-government 
violence. However, because the GPA received 
numerous faxes, petitions, and letters the Agency 
was forced to rethink their position. The negative 
publicity led to the GPA deciding to release 
Sandage. There was a petition at the press confer
ence itself for the release of the professor.
I was treated well, said Sandage. He added that 
he agreed to the publicity stunt because he is in 
support of any activity that encourages students to 
be politically active.
The whole event, according to Rachel Whipple, a 
senior in psychology and the group president for 
Amnestys CMU chapter, was done to bring human
rights abuses closer to home for students. 
Hopefully this demonstration can show the power 
that people can have, she said.
We kidnapped Scott to bring home to CMU stu
dents the way in which human rights abuses are 
perpetuated across the world everyday, said Garg. 
He added that Sandages release demonstrated the 
effect students can have in the release of prisoners 
around the world through such things as letters and 
petitions.
In addition to a mock petition for Sandage, 
Amnesty also collected around 50 signatures for the 
release of the Pachen Lama, the worlds youngest 
politcal prisoner at the age of 11 years old. The petition 
was sent to the Chinese govern
ment, who hold the young Tibetan 
boy and his family in custody.
Last year, the chapter sent 10-20 let
ters in protest of the imprisonment 
of Chechen Journalist Audrey 
Babitsky by the Russian 
Government. According to Garg, 
the letters sent by various Amnesty 
International members around the 
world helped in Babitskys release 
earlier this year.
Amnesty International at CMU reg
ularly holds meetings, in which 15- 
25 members of the organization 
usually sign petitions and write let
ters. At the press conference, 
Sandage asked everyone attending to go around the 
room and indicate what department or college with 
which they were associated. The majority of students 
were from H&SS or CFA. Sandage posed the question 
Why is everyone here from the soft-side of Carnegie 
Mellon? Garg answered that one possibility was that 
perhaps the interests of more technical students do not 
coincide with Amnestys activities.
How can you get others involved? asked Sandage, 
who said that to organize anything at CMU students 
need to have the support of the computer science 
department. One person joked, Computers that help 
us write letters. Sandage made suggestions for ways 
that Amnesty could get more students interested inter
ested in thair activities. He said that Amnesty should 
consider kidnapping someone like Raj Reddy from the 
computer science department. He also said that stu
dents studying business and technical degrees could be 
notified of human rights violations against profession
als in their fields, in an effort to make these situations 
more analogous to what these students are studying.
Graphic by Justin Suissa/Photo Editor and 
Chris Messina/Online Design Editor
Kappa Alpha Theta prepares to crown 
the king during Mr. Fraternity 2000
by Joanna Smiley
KSRkryt CM, GeAeMf T,eySr
Fraternity men will take to the 
stage once again this year, to 
compete for the thrill of the 
throne and the title of Mr. 
Fraternity 2000, Kappa Alpha 
Thetas annual philanthropy 
event. The event will take place 
starting at 7:30 on December 9th 
in Rangos Ballroom in the 
University Center.
A newer tradition at 
Carnegie Mellon, Mr. 
Fraternity involves 
every fraternity on cam
pus choosing one mem
ber to compete across 
five categories to win 
the coveted crown. The 
guys will be true Greeks 
in toga, and if the fash
ion in beachwear does
nt knock your socks off, 
then the suave men 
decked out in formal 
wear most certainly 
will. Creativitys the 
key when winning 
points in talent, and wit 
will please the crowd 
during a question & 
answer session.
Amber Jackson, a sis
ter in Kappa Alpha 
Theta and publicity co
chair of the event, 
remarks, While its 
exciting to watch the 
guys compete for the 
crown, it is even more 
thrilling to know the 
good that were doing 
in honor of one of our 
sisters. Our philan
thropy is really dear to 
us, and we all remem
ber what this about - 
its not just a competi
tion, but were also
making a difference so that oth
ers dont have to suffer the way 
our sister did.
Created ten years ago, Kappa 
Alpha Theta started Mr. 
Fraternity to raise money in 
honor of sister Karin Johnson, 
who was lost to an acute asthma 
attack in 1984. Every year, pro
ceeds from Mr. Fraternity go to 
the Central Ohio Breathing 
Association in the form of a dona
tion in Johnsons name. Last year,
Theta donated over $5000 to the 
organization, and the sisters 
anticipate exceeding last years; 
donation. Delta Tau Delta brother 
Josh McConnell prevailed during 
last years competition 
For more information on the 
event, contact Kappa Alpha 
Thetas philanthropy chair, 
Rachel Zsembery, who can be 
reached by e-mail at zsembery@ 
andrew.cmu.edu or by phone at; 
8-5154.
Art by Gabriel Sabourin/Art Staff
Dancers, musicians, speakers raise 
awareness, funds for AIDS week
Jazz ensembles 
close out semester
by Blake Engel
nwrtSMMwi oCMCfwr
In recognition of AIDS 
Awareness Week, last week the 
Student Life Office sponsored 
three events to increase aware
ness of AIDS and to raise funds 
to fight the disease. All of the 
proceeds from the event benefit
ed the Shepherd Wellness 
Community, a support group for 
area AIDS victims and their fam
ily members.
On Monday, music students 
performed the American pre
miere of Songs of Love and Loss, 
consisting of short piano, clar
inet, and voice pieces. Students 
Abigail Schoppe, Erin Breen, 
Dana Howell, Ja-Nae Duane, 
Kara Cornell, and Elizabeth 
Sederburg performed five move
ments: The Dead Poet,
Davids Lament for Jonathan, 
Another Day Without You, 
Soft, for Music Dies, and 
Memorare.
Another day without you, 
begins one piece, and no one 
seems to know. The earth still 
keeps turning, the Thames still 
seems to flow. All words were 
inspired by loss in the authors 
lives.
The performance was emo
tional and thought-provoking, 
but unfortunately only sparsely 
attended.
Robert Hugill, the Londonbased composer of Songs of Love 
and Loss has also received atten
tion in Pittsburgh in the past for 
composing the music used in 
Candledancing, a medieval musi
cal drama written by Carnegie 
Mellon Student Life employee 
Coni Koepfinger.
Events continued on Tuesday 
with Ted Hoovers These Days: 
Eight Mono-logues on a Theme. 
The monologues dealt with men 
coping with AIDS and the emo
tions that people external to the 
daily trials of being sick are not 
aware of. One of them, 
Griephology, was about a pro
fessor talking to his students 
with the knowledge that he is 
dying. Although he never men
tioned AIDS or HIV, the same 
feelings came across.
The writer himself performed 
the first and last monologues, 
and four other actors performed 
the others. Audience member 
Erin Breen said, It was so 
extremely powerful... I wish so 
many other people could have 
seen it.
Finally, on Wednesday the 
Coal Country Cloggers per
formed in McConomy. The 
group, originally from south
western Pennsylvania, makes it 
their mission to regain recogni
tion of clogging as a dance form.
At all events, a series of pam
phlets on the effects of AIDS and 
how to get tested for HIV/AIDS 
were available to visitors.
Although the events did not 
attract large audiences, hopeful
ly the series will return next year 
with equally prestigious per
formers and guests.
by Andy Francis
KSRkryt CM, GeAeMf T,eySr
This past Saturday, the Carnegie Mellon Jazz 
Ensembles put on their final performance of the 
semester, playing an eclectic mix of classic and con
temporary jazz numbers at Kresge Theatre. The con
cert was divided equally between the two groups; the 
young Legends of Jazz Band and the veteran Giants of 
Jazz ensemble. Each group covered a variety of com
posers and genres, as director Gary Fienberg pointed 
out, in an effort to broaden the jazz knowledge of 
both the performers and the audience.
The Legends of Jazz Band, directed by David 
Pellow, took the stage first, opening with Whos 
Sorry Now?, a piece by Pittsburgher Sammy Nestico. 
The song began with a slow, lazy melody, and grew 
into a big-band arrangement. Next, the Legends 
launched into one of the shows highlights, Chick 
Coreas 500 Miles High. The music was almost trop
ical sounding, with a cabana beat and breezy horns. 
About midway through the piece, the rhythm section 
hijacked the tune, as a piano-drums interlude made 
 for some of the afternoons most interesting music.
The clear zenith of the Legends performance was 
Sidewinder, a tune by trumpeter Lee Morgan. With 
a fierce drumbeat and tight bassline, the song leaned 
See JAZZ, page B2
Delta Tau Delta brothers hold Famine 
to benefit Rainbow Kitchen charity
by Andy Francis
KSRkryt CM, GeAeMf T,eySr
Going 24 hours without anything 
to eat may not seem like too diffi
cult of a task, but the members of 
Delta Tau Delta (DTD) found out 
this past weekend just how difficult 
it can be. The members of DTD held 
an event this past weekend that 
they called their Famine for 
Charity, a hunger strike where the 
participants obtained sponsors to 
support their efforts by pledging a 
certain amount of money for com
pleting die famine. The brothers, 
along with invited sorority guests, 
camped out in the West Wing TV 
room from Friday evening at 7 until 
that same time on Saturday.
All proceeds from the event benefitted Rainbow Kitchen 
Community Services because, as a
statement from DTD reads, The 
members of DTD believe that 
everyone should have a warm meal 
this holiday season. Chapter presi
dent Peter Yeung explained that the 
fraternity is committed to helping 
the community, and that the 
hunger strike would not only 
allow [DTD] to raise awareness of 
the presence of outstanding organi
zations like the Rainbow Kitchen 
and the valuable services they pro
vide to needy families in the region, 
but also to raise funds to help them 
feed numerous people this holiday 
season.
Of course, it wasnt that easy for 
the famine participants. Sixty-two 
people pledged to go the 24 hours, 
42 of whom spent the entire night 
in West Wings TV room. Naturally, 
those involved in the famine were 
permitted to drink as much as they 
wished, though that was little con
solation to most. Twenty-one hours 
into the famine, DTD brother 
Jordan Schreck informed those in 
room that, Im hungry enough 
that Im almost considering 
Highlander. Around that time, 
DTD brother Allen Ednie summed 
up the feelings of everyone pre
sent, explaining that, Ill be really 
happy when 7 oclock comes 
around.
The participants efforts werent 
wasted, though, as the famine 
proved a very successful fundraiser 
for Rainbow Kitchen. Chapter trea
surer Brett Gordon says that the 
event raised over $4,000. DTD 
plans to make the charitable 
fundraiser a yearly event; Gordon 
has high hopes for the future suc
cess of the famine, confidently pre
dicting that were going to break 
$10,000 next year. The Rainbow 
Kitchen certainly hopes so.
Delta Tau Delta brothers Alan Johnson and Jesse Merkelson play Risk to pass the time during a DTD's Famine for 
Charity. They participated in the 24 hour hunger strike along with 58 other students.
Ryan Laird was one of the participants in Wednesday night's 
Candlelight Vigil on the Cut as part of AIDS Awareness Week.

---------------------------------------------------

BZTHE TARTAN  DECEMBER 4, 2000
University needs to better advertise interesting campus events to students
postering for a new fall class called 
Telepresence Art and Application. on 
the posters, stuck up every fifteen feet in 
Wean, the fact that this was a class meant 
to appeal to engineers and artists was 
actually underlined. How true could that 
be when not one poster appeared in CFA 
even by the art department and art stu
dents studios? But do you know what 
was posted there? A bright yellow copy of 
the Universitys smoking policy. The poli
cy was not posted in any other building;
The difference between the universalty of student group posting and posting 
organized by administrators would seem 
to indicate the truth behind something 
that I mentioned earlier in this column: 
Being a member of a campus group is the 
best way to go about meeting new people 
from all disciplines. But, assuming that 
CMU students do not suddenly run out to 
join these organizations en masse, the 
administration must work harder at mak
ing sure that college events become 
University events. Otherwise, too many 
students will miss out on opportunities 
to expand not only what they know, but, 
more importantly, who they know.
Gwtt byrwtt3
g.D Tuei. GCM,wt
Quick: Think of your closest friends at 
. CMU. OK, now, how many of them belong 
to the same college as you? Ill wait a 
moment while you think about it...do you 
! have your answer? Im willing to bet that 
the majority of your closest friends are in 
your college, if not in your major.
Im not trying to say that no one in CFA 
or SCS has good friends in H&SS and 
CIT and all the other colleges. In fact, 
Im sure that plenty of those cross-col
lege relationships exist. But the point of 
my little exercise is that such relation
ships are the exception rather than the 
rule. At a school whose population is as 
diverse as this ones, we still tend to stick 
to the people who come from the col
leges or departments that we are in our
selves. One would think that after 
spending so much time working with 
these people, we would be anxious to 
seek out others to spend our free time 
with. And I think that, given the oppor
tunity, we would.
Sadly, we are presented with few of 
these opportunities. Carnival and the 
Fiesta de Primavera are the only two
widely publicized, widely known events 
that the entire campus community is 
both invited to and able to attend. But 
both of these occur at the end of the 
spring semester, right before people 
begin finals, not exactly the most con
ducive time for making friends.
The recent Centennial Birthday for 
Carnegie Mellon provided an example of 
a fall event, but sadly, we must wait 
another hundred years before it happens 
again. And this year, it merely stood in 
for Homecoming, which, due to a sched
uling glitch, somehow landed the same 
weekend as mid-semester break, when 
most people cleared off campus. And of 
course, we always have those events on 
Fridays, which are very nice if you hap
pen to be in the UC between 12 and 2, 
which many people are not.
Obviously, people who join fraternities 
and sororities, AB, SDC and the year
book, any organization that breaks down 
the glass walls caused by our majors, are 
less likely to be college-exclusive when it 
comes to whom they are friends with. 
Unfortunately, Carnegie Mellon is not 
exactly overflowing with joiners.
I am not condoning this kind of apathy, 
but I am saying that we must acknowl
edge its existence if we want to deal with
this problem in a realistic way. I believe 
that we need to dramatically increase the 
number of all-university events that 
occur on this campus every year, as well 
as their publicity. However, I realize that 
that is highly unlikely, as these events are 
not only expensive, but also have little 
direct relationship to getting a job.
So instead I suggest a less-extreme 
approach: Just publicize the events that 
we already have more widely. Do you 
have any idea of the extent of the inter
esting events, renowned lecturers, even 
receptions with free food happening on 
this campus every day? If you only have 
friends with majors in one college, then I 
can almost guarantee that you do not.
Since our University situates each col
lege in its own building, putting most 
classes in that colleges home building 
as well, we dont have much reason to 
explore other buildings that often. I 
attended a fascinating lecture recently, 
on all of the problems with our current 
voting system, particularly in Florida. I 
never wouldve known about it if my edi
tor hadnt told me about it. As a student 
in H&SS, I rarely find myself in Wean, 
which is where the only posters for the 
event were put up. On the other hand, 
its unlikely that drama majors or engi
neers would ever find themselves in 
Baker, which is where the only signs for a 
recent lecture on reforming current U.S. 
drug laws were posted. Ever want to 
paint the set for a Scotch n Soda pro
duction? Well, youd never see the signs 
asking for volunteers if you didnt hap
pen to be in CFA.
Many groups, of course, do advertise 
in the home buildings of every college, 
and they should be commended for their 
efforts. But when I did a very informal 
survey of which posters were up in CFA, 
Baker/Porter, and Wean, I noticed a 
rather disturbing trend. While most cam
pus groups succeeded in making their 
events known across all disciplines, most 
events organized by the administration 
did not.
Signs for an upcoming lecture by Tim 
Draper, a well-known venture capitalist, 
were bold and flashy, and sported the 
tagline, The One Event You Do Not Want 
to Miss! Unless, apparently, you are in 
CFA, where not one of these posters was 
put up. The Adamson Visiting Writers 
Series attracts some the best and most 
innovative writers across the country. 
But unless you are in Baker Hall, youd 
never who was coming and when.
The most shocking difference was in
Emily Landes is a friend to people of all 
races, creeds, religions, and majors.
Jazz Ensembles emphasise diversity 
of composers, genres, arrangements
JAZZ, from B1
almost towards a rock n roll feel, 
evoking the Surfaris Wipeout 
(minus the drum solo). Impressive 
solos by saxophonist Daniel Easty 
and trombonist Arun Wahi built on 
the quality groove laid down by 
the fast-fingered rhythm section, 
adding a good loud-soft dynamic 
to the song as the tune rolled along 
until its conclusion.
Midway through their set, five 
of the band members (Easty, trum
peter Ray Strobel, pianist YannLoic Seznec, bassist Paul DustinMunoz, and drummer Matthew 
Helgeson) formed a quintet and 
played two additional numbers. 
Despite some nifty solo work, the 
tunes dragged a bit without the 
rest of the players; even the most 
-remarkable individual efforts got
 lost in the shuffle by the end.
The Legends closed out their 
show with Magic Flea, which 
Pellow described as a flag-waver 
due to its peppy, up-tempo feel. 
Although it kept a fast pace, the 
early portion of the song still 
stayed jazzy and mellow, creating 
a nice effect. The tempo picked up 
as the song went on (thanks in 
part to an animated conducting 
effort from Pellow) until the very 
end, when the drums and brass 
ended their set with a flourish.
Following a brief intermission, 
the Giants of Jazz hit the stage, 
directed by Gary Fienberg. The 
Giants front-loaded their set with 
their best efforts of the afternoon, 
opening with one of their 
strongest numbers, Thad Joness 
Us. The band wasted no time in 
establishing themselves as power
ful players when the brass section 
kicked off their performance with 
an emphatic introduction. Soon 
thereafter, drummer Brandon 
Paluzzi laid down a beat that gave 
the song an almost funk-like feel. 
The solos, had a jam feel to them, 
while the rest of the group backed 
them with a full, bold sound. The 
Giants followed that up with 
Count Basies Shiny Stockings, a 
piece that, Fienberg explained, 
nearly all jazz musicians 
encounter at some point in their 
careers. The tune, particularly 
solos from McKnight and saxo
phonist Eric Spaulding, sounded 
smooth and fluid.
The next two songs showed 
some of the bands diversity. No 
More Blues, by Brazilian compos
er Antonio Carlos Jobim, had a 
pleasant Latin rhythmic feel, 
thanks largely to pianist Dominic 
Mazzoni and the members of the 
brass section. After that came The 
Heart of the Matter, a cheerfulsounding groove-oriented piece 
that eventually broke into an 
intense instrumental display.
The second half of the perfor
mance was a bit disappointing 
after hearing what the Giants were 
capable of. The band focused a lit
tle too much on solo turns, espe
cially on a long number that fea
tured each member of the rhythm 
section. Although the rhythm play
ers abilities were remarkable 
throughout, notably those of 
drummer Ryun Louie, the solos 
became less and less engaging as 
the show went on. During No 
Scuffle Shuffle, hints of the 
groups full-strength sound poked 
through, but were put down by a 
few too many individual turns. 
Fortunately, the closing number 
Quiet Riot picked the pace back 
up, thanks to a strong bassline 
from Jason Guerra, dizzying solos 
from McKnight and Spaulding, 
and big trumpets.
Although at times both groups 
lost a bit of the excitement that 
marked their best works, the per
formances were largely impres
sive and fun to listen to. In addi
tion, the incorporation of a wide 
variety of styles and composers let 
the Legends and the Giants 
demonstrate the full range of their 
musicianship.
Nadelmann criticizes U.S. drug policy, 
advocates harm reduction strategies
ItS a bird! Its the Frame!: The Frame gallery held ;
Anthony D'Auria/Photo Staff
Superheroes" exhibit this past weekend.
by Emily Landes
bwMeSr byCaamreywr
Last Thursday, Ethan Nadelmann, the executive 
director of the Lindesmith Center-Drug Policy 
Foundation, the nations largest drug policy reform 
group, spoke in Porter Hall before a packed crowd of 
students and members of the Greater Pittsburgh Area 
ACLU, which sponsored the event. During his lecture, 
Nadelmann spoke energetically about the problems 
with current U.S. drug policy and how harm-reduc
ing strategies would be a better way to cope with 
drug use.
Nadelmann began his lecture by asking the audi
ence, How many of you believe that the War on Drugs 
is a failure? When almost everyone in attendance 
raised their hands, Nadelmann went on to ask how 
many would also like to do something in their own 
lives to stop the war on drugs. Again, numerous hands 
went up.
Nadelmann then said that the audience was not 
alone, and that more and more people across the coun
try were joining the movement to end the war on 
drugs. He compared the drug policy reform movement 
in this decade to previous rights battles, including the 
womens suffrage movement, the civil rights move
ment and the gay rights movement. Much like the drug 
movement, he said, those movements were also held 
back by peoples fear and prejudice.
People in the U.S. are prejudiced in favor of a 
temperance ideology, he said, pointing out that we 
are the only country in the world ever to ban the use 
of alcohol. Nadelmann also said that other countries 
are far ahead of us in creating sensible drug policy 
because, unlike the U.S., they have realized that 
drug use will never be eliminated. Our society 
believes in drug freeness like no other people in the 
world, he said.
Nadelmann indicated that, in addition to these 
societal fears and prejudices, there were also finan
cial motivations to continue the war on drugs. 
Billions are made in the drug-testing industry alone, 
according to Nadelmann. He indicated that these 
tests were a violation of peoples civil rights, and 
asked students what they would do when interview
ers for potential jobs required a urine sample. Are 
you just gonna do it? he asked.
He also brought students attention to the newly 
approved Higher Education Act, which prohibits those 
who have ever been convicted of a drug charge, includ
ing possession, from receiving federal college loans. 
Just to reassure you, he said, If youve ever been 
convicted of rape or murder, youre still OK.
After pointing out many of the problems with cur
rent drug policy, Nadelmann explained how he felt it 
had to be changed. The crux of his changes are what he 
called harm-reduction strategies. Harm reduction 
doesnt mean legalization, necessarily. But it breaks 
free of the prohibitionist paradigm. Too much empha
sis is placed on ending drug use, he said, when it 
should be placed on lessening the problems associated 
with both drug use and the current drug policy.
Nadelmann used raves, and the implied use of
Ecstasy at those raves, as an example of how harm 
reduction strategy differs drastically from current drug 
policy. In Nadelmanns eyes, Ecstasy use is not the 
problem. Although millions of (predominantly young) 
people have used the drug, there do not appear to be 
any scientifically proven long-term effects of the drug. 
It also does not lead to violence, as alcohol often does. 
Cops will talk about how raves are kind of wonderful 
for them. People arent drinking, they dont beat one 
another up. A rave is a quite remarkable place.
Any problems that take place at raves, said 
Nadelmann, are generally caused by irresponsible 
owners and drug dealers. Ecstasy use, particularly at 
raves, where people dance for many hours, can lead to 
death by dehydration. Nadelmann claims that any club 
owner who knows that there is a rave going on and 
does not provide free water and cool off stations 
should be criminally prosecuted. The same should be 
true for those who sell volatile and possibly deadly 
chemical compounds and pass them off as Ecstasy.
Most parents dont want their kids using drugs, he 
said. But what they most want is them coming home 
safe at night...Therefore Im not necessarily going to 
pay for a criminal prohibition against people selling 
good quality Ecstasy of known quantity and purity.'?
Nadelmann also claimed that current drug policy'is 
racist in its very nature. He believes that if the 
500,000 people behind bars for drug offenses in tfte 
U.S. were all white, instead of the minorities which 
compose a substantial portion of the prison popula
tion, that drug policy would already be changed. He 
pointed out that many of the attempts to decriminal
ize marijuana during the 1970s were the result of <}n 
increased number of young white people imprisoned 
for using the drug. People said, We dont want that. 
Not to our kids.
Ironically, said Nadelmann, child protection is the 
main reason that many harm-reduction strategies, like 
needle exchange programs, are not supported by state 
governments. Politicians claim that these programs, 
where drug users can bring in used needles and 
exchange them for clean ones, send the wrong mes
sage to kids. Nadelmann disagrees. Students who wit
ness such programs first-hand learn that drug users 
may be more like themselves than had realized a 
that being a drug user is hardly a glamorous life. It 
sends a message of peoples fundamental humanity, 
but at the same time its sending a message that thats 
nothing to aspire to. Its no way to be,* he said. 
Nadelmann believes that not only should college stu
dents witness these programs, but that every DARE 
program in the country should take their elementalschool-aged children to see such programs first-hand.
Nadelmann ended his lecture by asking the audi
ence to take actions to make changes in their own 
community like the ones being made across the state, 
and all across the country. Are you just gonna lie 
down in Pittsburgh? he asked. According to 
Nadelmann, the local politicians he spoke to would t>e 
willing to support needle exchange programs a 
other harm-reducing strategies if they felt that they 
had enough public support for those programs. 
Something could happen here, he said. Something 
could happen.
Carnegie Almanac
50 YEARS AGO, December 12, 1950  President J.C. Warner 
announced that Carnegie Tech received a $15,000 grant from the Richard 
Mellon King Foundation to do work on a pioneering program of profes
sional education for women. This new program would be the first major
 extension of the nationally known Carnegie Plan of Professional 
Education to reach Margaret Morrison.
The new womens program had the same goal as the Carnegie Plan  
to give students the necessary skills to learn about work and life after col
lege is over. Warner said that an additional aim of the program for women 
was to make the lessons they learn equally valuable if they become pro
fessional women with jobs or married women with families to rear.
Warner said he felt it would take between 10 and 12 years to develop a 
program that would meet students needs appropriately.
25 YEARS AGO, December 9,1975  President Cyert foiled a robbery 
attempt on his way home from CMLPs opening basketball game, which he 
attended with his wife. While walking to their car parked on Frew Street, 
two. men hit Mrs. Cyerts purse from under her arm. The assailants then 
picked up the purse and started running. Cyert reacted by chasing the 
individuals. As the chase passed by the Baker Hall security office, Cyert 
ran in to get securitys assistance.
Cyert continued chasing the individuals when they threw the purse at 
him. Security had joined the pursuit at this point and continued follow
ing the men until he lost them in Panther Hollow. The two men were
reported to be of high school age. Cyert told The Tartan that he was 
impressed he was able to keep up with them. He said that walking up five 
floors to his office every day must have helped him stay in shape.
TEN YEARS AGO, December 3,1990  Alpha Phi Omega invalidated 
Student Senate elections after Senate violated the Student Government 
Constitution six times, according to A Phi O election chair Mike Reed. 
Only 4.6 percent of the student body voted in the elections, due to poor 
planning, according to Student Senate Chair Chris Neighbor. The usual 
turnout is about seven or eight percent.
A Phi O, which serves as Senates board of elections, came to the deci
sion at a special meeting. They suggested Senate try to hold elections 
again early the following semester.
Among the violations cited by A Phi O were that Senate usurped the role 
of validating petitions, which is supposed to be done by A Phi O. They also 
did not announce the election date before the last day of September, as 
they are required to do. The announcement of the election date was so 
late that it caused problems with candidates being able to collect signa
tures for petitions and then for the petitions to be validated.
FIVE YEARS AGO, December 4,1995  The University launched an 
effort to stop the deterioration of two of its landmarks  Henry 
Hornbostels Hamerschlag and Margaret Morrison Carnegie Halls.
The Hamerschlag work was confirmed primarily to its tower. The terra 
cotta was deteriorating so badly that pieces were starting to fall off 
according to an architect who was helping to study the problem. Watr 
had also been leaking into the interior of the building. To fix the proj)- 
lem, the parapet wall was to be rebuilt and the roof waterproofed.
In addition, Margaret Morrisons decorative edge was crumbling. That 
area, known as the balustrade, was to be restored. Scheduled work includ
ed repointing the terra cotta joints, cleaning and repairing the exterior, 
and reflashing the roof to achieve a watertight seal.
ONE YEAR AGO, November 22, 1999  The National Institute if 
Health awarded Carnegie Mellon University and the University if 
Pittsburgh a five-year, $10 million grant to create a Center for the Study bf 
Mind-Body Interaction and Health.
The grant would be used towards the research of four different projects. 
Two of these projects will study how psychological factors affect physiol 
health. The project organizers said they would look at how individuals 
dealing with a lot of stress are likely to get sick due to the fact that they 
will smoke more and diet less.
The studies would investigate how factors like marriage and other 
social factors affect peoples likelihood of sickness, and try to determine 
how psychological assistance can improve peoples health.
Compiled -by 
Seth IN/landel

---------------------------------------------------

Start Your Oi/vn Business!
Build your own web site
lHii
Want to incorporate your business?
Do it the simple and affordable way at:
simplybizness.cam
It takes only about ten minutes to fill out an online 
form and we handle the rest! Or simply call us at 
412-261-1135.
Our professional staff will accurately and effectively handle 
your paperwork with absolute confidentiality.
Never before has it been this simple 
and affordable to register your 
new business!
Want to put your business online?
Find all the answers at:
simplybizness.cam
Register your domain name*... Find the tools to build 
your own site...and find the most complete e-commerce 
capabilities like electronic shopping carts, credit card 
processing, inventory control and much more!
Its everything you need... with point 
and click simplicity... no computer code 
to learn!
"This application will enable both start-up and established 
e-commerce businesses to dynamically create and update their 
own internet presence. 
Dennis Woytek
Professor of Multimedia Technology, Duquesne University
Simply the most efficient and effective way to start doing business!
bizne55,CDm
For mare information, call 412-261-105 TODAY!
5886 Forbes Avenue
Corner of Forbes & Shady
422-1300'All.prices are subject lo 7% sales ti
DELIVERING QUALITY, VALUE AND 
FRESHNESS EVERY DA Y!
REAL ITALIAN PIZZA!ATrxitionSbutd bnr Fimiljr. From our Village in leaJjr. o our hometown oi Pirubur^h. We wine to ihire thii ua'i only Hal luJiin Pirn!
12" Regular.........................................................616" Large.............................................................820' Extra Large N.Y. Style..................................12
Slices......................................................................
6.258.509.75
...1.60
Lorn.951.051.5030
PASTA DINNERS!
AH Dimun Ctru with FrnJi Suit StLJ & GtriU BmU AJJ 4 HtmmuJj Mtxibdllj Tt Sfqhmi Or Rip uni Ftr1.00
Spaghetti....................................................................................................5.99
Baked Zio, Mini com or Ravioli...................................................................5.99
Egg Plant Parmesan...................................................................................5.99
Lasagna.....................................................................................................5.99
j HEW I Chicken Parmesan with Spaghetti or Ziri ..............................................625
* TWO PIZZA SPECIAL*
AOOmCNAl TOPPINGS EXTRA  NO COUPON NECESSARY  LIMITED TIME QfFcfl
TWO EX-LARGE e . TWO LARGE . . TWO SMALL
9ivv,sr tyfdd 9ivv,sr tca Add 9ivv,sr tpdd
PIZZAS PIZZAS PIZZAS *
OVEN-BAKED HOAGIES!
M wbais
 Toppings 
Peppcroni  Sausage  Mushrooms  Meatball  Onions  Ham  Black 
Oliva  G cen Peppers  Hot Peppers * Anchovies  Bacon  Extra Cheese
* SPECIALTY PIZZAS*
All Pizzcs Si ode With byy% (fronde Mozzarella
r.McLHim & Cheese Salami Cheese Gpicolla & Cheec Tuna Parmesan Provolone Sub A-l Steak
3.25 5.75 3-25 5.753.25 5.753.25 5.753.25 5.75 3.75 5.75
Italian 3.25Steak & Cheese 3.75Steak Italiano __3.75Village Supreme l Mew 1 3.75 Steak Special 3.95Steak w/Bacon 3.95
All Vhcle ir HtlfSuil SmfJ ulLmue - Toman - Onuiu - Drnnnf
16* Unt
Spinach Pina 7.20 9.55
Four Cheese Pizza 8.00 11.00Momrdla. provolone, pimijiarvj, gorjomolla
Four Season Pizza 8.00 11.00Muiniocmt, jnicholta. ol'rva. lum
White Pizxa 7.20 9.55A iptsiil blend of fresh pHic ii heibi. Seajoned 10 perfection.Topped w/monarella chcae.
Whitfc Veggie 8.15 10.60
Topped with broccoli and tomato.
Yillace Supreme 9.10 11.65Your choice oT any live toppings! Well only durje your for three.
jBBQaidctii 9.10 11.65Our Kind toucd doujb wnoibered with a tui gy 0BQ uuec and monarellj cheese topped with gulled chicien.
GSjBuiEUo Chidrni 9.10 11.65Our lund toucd 5u$h aivatd in our bot auu ind tnomtdU chcae rapped with jrilled chicken.
l^jMeat Loven 9.10 11.65
A mcidover's dream with peppcroni. uusage, bacon uid ham
9" PARMESAN SUBS! MeatbaJl Parmesan  Chicken Parmesan
(ToppingbbCay each)
 Hoc Sausage Parmesan
CALZONE!
Cheese  ....................4
With One Topping .. 4^ 
The Special ..............5^
VILLAGE ROLLS!
We'll nil up & ual cur fresh Jough with jour 
favorite uppinn, fill it with uuee & chcae, lightly brush the outside wish garlic butter.Pepperoni Chicken f\-Sausage U
'COMBO" Any Two... 7^
Parmesan
Your
Choice
Only
Whole5.756.256.256.256.956.95
75
PIZZA BOATS!
bm Hoape Bun Pizza m
Toppings .65 each
Brad stix.........................;-----150
Garlic Bread
with cheese................................2.00
SALADS!
Made with thefmhai ingnJients txdfnduer. end miAefrah the fumettijtu tritt.
Fresh Garden Salad....................195
Tuna Salad.................................3.75
Steak Salad...............................5.95
Anti Pasta Salad.........................5.95
Chicken Salad...........................5.95
STROMBOLIS!SUAil UCCEItalian Stromboli 4.99 7.50
Hun, Salami, Peppatai, Mooanlli ChaseMeatball Stromboli 4.99 7-50
Meatballs, Mozzarella CheeseHot Sausage Stromboli 4.99 7.50
Hot Sausage, Mouaxdla Cheese
WEDGIES!
Pizza Crust an Tot & Bottom 
You Fill In The Middle 
One Size Fits All 
Vegetarian  Italian 
 Steak *Tuna 
'Vcd[x coma 'ih Inma. tornir, siion, tC Inliia
ALMOST FAMOUS WINGS!
12 JUMBO C99
7
r50
Mild  B3Q  Culic  Untun Pipper  I lontv Di|on 
bejsun SENI  l lut -Flame Thtmwh
DRINKS!
epa - Diet Pepsi - 
Mountain Dew 
Gineer Ale-Root Beer  
lawaiian Punch
Italian Village"] Pizza i 
I
Italian Village"] 
Pina i
$7.99 ,16" Large Pizza  |
with 1 Toppii: < I I Specialty Pizza 
AJJ an Older cl braiJ i iks \ J Ch--. 5anrrnir J ^
J 5(tJtoiu
$9.9916" Large
Italian Village"]
its j J Ch--. Supreme. 4 Cheese, umh lautr for SI j j
Pletaij a 0*il<c-f i - Pickup^ t-n-.'iirijiOf.A.  J milt
I I 1I I I I
su 11
APPW (1 Italian Hoagie   with 2 Liter Pepsi * *

ireme. 4 Cheese, j I
sri Wfnrfwi
kirciS ^ su " IiN r (I J I 16 Large Cheese I U.' J I pi:M & Whole j
Pita
$13.99
2 Latge 
16 Pizzas
16 oz. Fountain - 9320 OZ.U.25 2 Liter11.98
Italian Village"] I
,j Pickup or Miltrf. I " UmilKl tin Orly.I ! Pickup of t.1.<Y j JI I UmltMl Tim 0Y I 
.J I___________________I L--
Pizza
$9.99 j
NY Style 20" I 
X-Large Pirra j 
with 1 Topping I 
1limili Tim Orif- J

---------------------------------------------------

Science ^Technology
4 December 2000THE TARTANPage B<j.
Hacking experts dazzle campus community ACM team goes to world finals
most stressful; according 
to Younes. We had solved 
five problems up until that 
point, I was working on the 
terminal trying to solve a 
sixth problem. It was basi
cally a Gaussian elimina
tion problem. I thought I 
had worked out most of the 
solution on paper, but as 
the end of the contest 
neared I was still working 
on getting the details right. 
We finally submitted the 
solution in the last minute 
of the contest, but while it 
worked on the simple test 
data printed in the prob
lem specification, it failed 
on the test data that the 
judges used. In the end, it 
didnt matter that we did
nt get a sixth problem 
solved.
The team ended up in 
third place which was suf
ficient to reach the World 
finals.
This is the ACM pro
gramming competitions 
twenty-fifth year this 
year. Over 2000 teams 
compete at 89 university 
sites worldwide. Over 
sixty teams will have the 
opportunity to advance 
to the 2001 world finals 
in Vancouver, British 
Columbia from March 7~- 
11, 2001. Carnegie,
Mellon has sent a team to; 
the world finals six of the 
past eight years. This year 
IBM sponsored the conT 
test. ,
by Sriram Vaidhyanathan
kttyl bEewMEw Y dwEc T,eySr
A unique demonstration of modern-day 
hacking into computers took place last 
Thursday. Chris Prosise and William 
Chan, of Foundstone, Inc., experts in the 
field of computer security, held an hourlong session, hosted by the Management 
of Information Systems Management pro
gram (MISM), in front of a packed audi
ence comprised of students from a wide 
range of departments and schools at 
CMU.
Network security is an issue that 
receives a lot of attention from large orga
nizations and small online businesses 
alike these days, simply because there is 
too much critical information that could 
be vulnerable to a potentially evil hack
er. The first method the speakers exhibit
ed is commonly exploited by hackers to 
simply get the server shell (Windows 
explorer or a Unix command environ
ment) onto their own host computer. 
This means that the hacker could gain 
access to the computer as if they were sit
ting right in front of it.
This effectively compromises the secu
rity of data and is known as the MDAC 
Attack  or an attack through the 
Microsoft Data Access Component.
Discussions went on to the role played 
by Network Intrusion Detection Systems 
(IDS) and how hackers are able to get past 
these on Internet presences, which typi
cally consist of a web/mail server, the fire
wall, and the IDS itself. In fact, the presen
tation itself was appropriately entitled 
Drive By Shootings on the Information 
Superhighway: Bypassing Intrusion
Detection Systems. Conspicuously 
dressed all in black, the presenters strived 
to make the presentation a highly interacBryan Kaplan/Photo Editor
Chris Prosise of Foundstone, Inc. and expert in the field of computer security discussing 
hacking techniques and methodologies in the Hamburg Hall auditorium this past Thursday.
tive one. They discussed that the MDAC 
attack was rather primitive in modern-day 
IDS, and that most systems could easily 
detect these. Apparently 10-15% of sys
tems out there could still be vulnerable to 
the MDAC attack, due to either the non
existence of an IDS or a rather obsolete 
one. Developing upon their initial demon
stration, they went on to show another 
method to effectively bypass the IDS that 
culminated in the upload.asp hack. They 
demonstrated the technique whereby they 
were able to get into a web server by 
switching IP addresses between the host 
and the dummy server. They went on to 
give the audience a glimpse at what the log 
files would look like after the hack was 
completed - with almost no trace of what 
went on.
The tools employed by the hackers 
ranged from what they referred to as the 
Swiss Army Knife of hacking, namely 
Netcat (nc.exe) to other programs that 
could bypass the IDS. Several of these 
tools are apparently freely available off the 
company website (www.foundstone.com). 
The demonstrations were run off a couple 
of dummy servers on the internet, with 
two laptops serving as machines for actu
ally hacking into the systems.
Foundstone Inc. wrote the book on 
hacking, entitled Hacking Exposed. Free 
copies of the book and t-shirts were given 
away to people who answered presenters 
questions. Chris Prosise ended the pre
sentation with a comment that the work 
was some of the most exciting in the 
industry.
by Sriram Gollapalli
bEewMEw Y dwEcl T,eySr
Students competed in 
the East Central Region 
competition of the
Association for Computing 
Machinery (ACM)
International Collegiate 
Programming Contest at 
Case Western Reserve 
University a few weeks 
ago. More than 100 teams 
took part in this presti
gious preliminary regional 
round in order to advance 
to the finals.
Carnegie Mellon sent 
two teams to the regional 
competition this year: the 
Tartans and the Dragons. 
The Tartans consisted of 
Eric Heutchy, Jake 
Richman, both junior com
puter science majors, and 
Hakan Younes, a doctoral 
computer science student, 
advanced to the finals by 
solving five of the eight 
problems in 745 minutes to 
place third behind the 
University of Toronto and 
the University of Waterloo.
The Dragons team 
included Allen Chang, 
Jevan Saks, both sopho
more computer science 
majors, and David 
Charlton, a first-year in 
computer science. The 
team solved three of the 
eight problems to finish in 
seventh place.
There was an internal
competition on campus a 
few weeks prior to the 
regional contest. The top 
students from the prelimi
nary round here went on to 
the regionals.
Considering we hardly 
had prepared anything 
before the competition, I 
must say that we worked 
fairly well together during 
the competition, said 
Younes. We made good 
use of the one terminal at 
our disposal, and managed 
to handle most debugging 
on paper, making printouts 
of the source code whenev
er we got stuck on a partic
ular problem.
Both teams worked well 
together, and enjoyed 
being there. The competi
tion was stressful accord
ing to some team mem
bers.
What stuck out in my 
mind was the crazy feeling 
of seeing the freshman - 
sophomore team get 3 
problems right in the first 
hour, and realizing we had 
only gotten one done at 
that point, said Heutchy. 
The other was the last half 
hour or so, trying to get 
one more problem done. 
We finally got to the point 
that we thought it was 
done, and submitted, only 
to get a message back 2 
minutes after the contest 
finished which said incor
rect.
The last hour was the
Review Corner: Lego MindStorms Robotics Invention System
brerCu HCe,c.CMCycCM CM, oeycvM bcwMSe
The Lego MindStorms Robotics Invention Systems 
fits the bill for this holiday seasons gift-giving 
almost perfectly. Not only does it give one hours and 
hours of inventive entertainment, it, quite pleasant
ly, does not fall into the category of those terribly 
complicated and expensive kits that take almost for
ever to set up and get to work.
The set comes with nearly 700 pieces, light- and 
touch-sensors, an RCX (a microcomputer designed 
to control inventions with pre-programmed instruc
tions), an infrared transmitter, motors, gears, a 
building guide and a CD-ROM containing the 
Robotics Invention System software. Developed by 
researchers at MIT, the Robotics Invention System 
claims to be friendly to users above the age of 12. 
Lego fans of yesteryear are sure to be attracted by 
several of the new additions to the kits, especially 
the ability to program instructions into the RCX 
using the software from the CD-ROM.
Getting started? Extremely easy. When it comes to 
building the actual unit, one obviously has to go 
through the usual jigsaw-puzzle ritual of finding the 
right pieces to connect together anything tangible 
following the instruction manual. Incidentally, both 
the manual and the pictorial representations of how 
to construct demonstration projects are extremely 
user-friendly, and its hard to not get it right the first 
time. Once connected, the focus turns to the pro
gramming part of the process. We tried the Robo 1 
project initially, and found that it took less than half 
an hour to actually get acquainted and be able to sit 
at the computer for some heavy-duty fun. The pro
ject was aimed at getting a construct to actually 
move forward autonomously, driven by a computer 
program that was to be transmitted from the PC to 
the RCX via the infrared transmitter. PC require
ments were quite mild; any relatively modern PC 
should be able to handle the requirements more 
than comfortably. Once at the computer, one gets to 
go through a series of tutorials regarding the pro- , 
gramming environment itself. While program
ming may sound like a terribly technical term for a
in a manner thats both easy to understand as well as 
concise. We programmed the instructions in for the 
beginner-level project, and were on our way in no 
time. One could call the infrared transmission 
between the computer and the RCX on the unit itself 
a nifty little thing, in addition to a digital interface
g,shtwiu9eREVIEW
Usability____________________
Limitless number of projects possible; could 
keep one,6pcupietyfbr hours and hours.
Ease of Use__________________
A big thumbs up for this category; the 
MindStorms'set combines the fun of traditional 
Legos with solid technology while maintaining 
the simplicity of the kit at a high level.Features and Software
Wide range of capability with construction set 
1 is somewhat unfortunately limited by 
programming environment: on the other hand, 
ic.is very easy fpr a 12 year old to get a project 
up and running in no time.
At a mere $99, the LEGO MindStormseries gives the developing child prodigy 
(or anyone 12 or older) a challenging and 
exciting opportunity to explore robotics. 
LEGO makes learning to program fun!
12 year old, it really isnt so. Based more on a graph
ical concept rather than a coding one, pictorial rep
resentations of various functions makes it very easy 
to code in various functions you wish to incorporate 
into your invention. The tutorials are very well 
designed, and allow first-time users to get into the 
environment right away. The material is presented
Chris Messina/Online Design Editor
on the RCX itself that allows the user to run, switch 
on/off and other functions. The project worked, 
needless to say, with no major problems in the struc
ture of the robot itself.
We embarked on another one of the manual-illus
trated projects, namely a Pathfinder, which would 
try to trace out a path following a black oval on a
white background, much like CMUs own Mobot 
Slalom race on a smaller level. Again, the procedure 
was almost exactly the same as before, with the con
struction taking the usual half an hour or so. Parts, 
as in any of the traditional Lego projects, are trou
blesome to locate, but then again, that is part and 
parcel of the entire construction exercise. Again, the 
programming was well defined and easy to get on 
with, but in this project, definitely more complex 
than the previous one, we found that the tools avail
able were kind of limited if one wanted to extend the 
functionality of the project. For example, if we 
wished to program the robot to turn around three 
times every time it spotted a green patch near the 
black line, and then proceed along the black line, 
the limitations of the programming tool were a 
drawback on this. The light sensors attach neatly 
into the RCX, as could the touch sensors if we 
wished to use them instead. The light sensors pro
vided allow for easy detection of color, with not too 
much error creeping in. Eventually, the project was 
successful, as the robot was able to accurately trace 
a path around the course repeatedly. When tested 
on a variety of colors and backgrounds, the light 
sensor held up just fine.
Young minds interested in robotics and modern 
systems dealing with mechanics would find such a 
set a real breath of fresh air when it comes to cre
ativity and license for invention. The Lego 
MindStorms set is indeed a powerful tool when it 
comes to education and learning, and in the hands 
of a teenager, it is a much more constructive and fun 
way of spending time than video games and televi
sion all day. The Lego MindStorms Robotics 
Invention System is the perfect gift this holiday sea
son for a sibling.
Satellites track cows
And another bit of 
space news this 
week...tracking cows 
from orbit!
Farmers from the 
mountainous Massif 
Central region of 
Southern France are 
replacing the classic, 
clanking cow bell with a 
silent, state of the art 
satellite tracking system.
Theyre using the Global 
Positioning System, a net
work of 24 satellites oper
ated by the US Defense 
Department.
The system was designed for military usage, but has found numer
ous applications in civilian life. It helps trucking companies track their 
semis, guides rental car drivers to their .destinations, even watches 
over endangered birds...and now...cows.
The system helps the French farmers keep track of their 
herds....and also may help prevent over grazing. Now the farmers 
could allow their cows to stray farther from sight, while tracking them 
with transmitters around their necks.
Viva la difference!
Source: National Public Radio.
Sara Stille/News Editor
How a CD burner works
Bryan Kaplan/Photo Editor
The University Lecture series presented Joseph Bordogna, 
deputy director of the National Science Foundation, who spoke 
about integration of research and education and gave a lecture 
last Thursday. Bordogna visited in connection with a Carnegie 
Mellon symposium (Wednesday and Thursday) bringing togeth
er the 12 schools that won the prestigious one-time 
Recognition Awards for Integration of Research and Education 
(RAIRE) and Awards for the Integration of Research and 
Education (AIRE) from the National Science Foundation. 
Carnegie Mellon won the RAIRE Award in 1997.
by Sara Stille
9wmt T,eySr
There has recently been much 
debate over copyright infringment 
and software piracy. Amidst all 
this debate, technology has been 
making this easier for the general 
public to do. Napster is becoming 
more and more popular and now 
so is CD burning.
CD-RWs hold many of the same 
basic properties as regular CDs. 
They hold approximately 74 or 80 
minutes of music or over 783 
megabytes of digital data. They 
are about 1.2 millimeters thick. 
Most of this thickness consists of 
injection-molded polycarbonate 
plastic, which is later impressed 
with microscopic bumps arranged 
in a spiral track that contain the 
information you burn to the CD. 
Above the plastic is a layer of alu
minum, a layer of acrylic to pro
tect the aluminum, and then the 
label.
Regular CDs do not have a 
writable surface, while CD-RWs 
have a special metal alloy surface
that allows information to be writ- j 
ten to it. This alloy also makes the : 
surface of the CD-RW silver.
Burning a CD involves four j 
basic steps: melting the writable j 
layer of disc, creating bumps on j 
the surface, writing the informa
tion, and making the disc j 
rewritable. This process allows  ! 
person to write, erase, and rewrite 
information to a CD. This infor 
mation can include music files, ! 
software, a backup of important ; 
files on your hard drive, and many 
other possibilities.
In order to write new informa- ; 
tion to a CD, the surface of the ; 
disc must be melted. To do this, ; 
the laser that is used to read infor- ; 
mation, combined with focusing j 
lenses, acts like the read/write j 
head of a hard drive except it \ 
never touches the disc. The laser. 
uses a little more power than J 
when it is reading information.. 
This extra power melts the, 
writable material on the surface 
of the disc. After this step, one is : 
ready to create the bumps or pits-' 
needed to write the information
see CD BURNER, page B5

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  DECEMBER 4. 2000
Laser encodes data with bumps on metal alloy
from CD BURNER, page B4 
to.These bumps form dark spots on 
the disc where information will later 
be written. These bumps circle the 
disc in a spiral pattern.
converts the 8-bit bytes that are 
inputted to 14 bits so that there are no 
bumps in the data track. It is also 
guaranteed by EFM that some of 
those bits will be Is. Subcode data is 
information encoded in order to give
order to play or return it.
A CD-RW can be written to, erased, 
and rewritten to, but after erasing the 
disc an additional step needs to be 
taken before you can rewrite to it. 
This is done by heating the entire surPenn State researchers implant 
artificial computer heart in calf
/0.5 microns 
1.6 microns 
/ 0.5 microns
A CD has a single spiral track of data, circling from the inside of the disc to the outside. The fact that the spiral track starts at the center means that the CD can be small
er than 12 centimeters if desired, and in fact there are now plastic baseball cards and business cards that you can put in a CD player. CD business cards hold about 2 
megabytes of data before the size and shape of the card cuts off the spiral.
The tracks are incredibly small  approximately 0.5 microns wide, with 1.6 microns separating one track from the next. (A micron is a millionth of a meter.) And the elon
gated bumps that make up the track are each 0.5 microns wide, a minimum of 0.S3 microns long and 125 nanometers high. (A nanometer is a billionth of a meter.) 
Looking through the polycarbonate layer at the bumps, they look something like this.
1.2 nm i
Label
Acrylic
Aluminum
Polycarbonate plastic
1.2 mm
A CD is a fairly simple piece of plastic, about 1.2 millimeters thick. Most of a CD consists of an injection-molded piece of clear polycarbonate plastic. During manufac
turing, this plastic is impressed with microscopic bumps arranged as a single, continuous, extremely long spiral track of data. We will return to the bumps in a moment. 
Once the clear piece of polycarbonate is formed, a thin, reflective aluminum layer is sputtered onto the disc, covering the bumps. Then a thin acrylic layer is sprayed over 
the aluminum to protect it. The label is then printed onto the acrylic. A cross section of a complete CD looks like this.
By focusing the laser at a high 
wattage on the dark spots created in 
the previous step, the drive will 
imprint encoding of the desired infor
mation in a ones and zeros format 
into the disc. The laser can later inter
pret these encodings when it attempts 
to read them and restores them to 
their original format to be outputted. 
There are four main methods of 
encoding the inputted data. They 
include: Eight-Fourteen modulation, 
subcoding, Error-correction, and 
interleaving.
Eight-Fourteen modulation (EFM)
the location of the data so that the 
drive will be able to find it. It can 
encode either the absolute or relative 
position of the information. Errorcorrecting code is used to handle sin
gle-bit errors. When the laser mis
reads a bump, this code can correct it. 
Interleaving is used to recover from 
multiple bit errors. If a whole packet 
of bytes is misread, the problem will 
be solved by interleaving the data. 
The information is stored nonsequentially on the CD. The drive will 
read the data one revolution at a 
time, thus un-interleaving the data in
Mike Zimmer/Dossier Design Editor; Source: howstufiworks.com
face of the disc and then holding the 
temperature constant until the sur
face recrystalizes. Once this is com
plete, one can write information to 
the disc again.
The previous four steps describe 
the method for burning a CD-RW. 
The same process is used to burn a 
CD-R except for step four. CD-Rs 
have a different surface and are 
unable to be rewritten to, like CDRWs. CD burners currently operate 
at speeds up to 32X for reading, 8X 
for CD-R writing, and 4X for CD-RW 
writing.
(U-WIRE) HERSHEY, Penn.
Hes a healthy calf who will 
gladly take a break from 
munching on hay to have a vis
itor scratch his ears.
And he seems blissfully 
unaware that he has no heart.
About three weeks ago, Penn 
State researchers at the Milton 
S. Hershey Medical Center 
took out Too Closes heart and 
replaced it with a machine.
Now, a computer-controlled 
titanium-and-wax contraption 
pumps the blood through his 
body.
Hell look exactly like a nor
mal calf and hell feel exactly 
like a normal calf once he 
recovers from surgery, said 
Allen Prophet, a research asso
ciate at the medical center.
Researchers at Hershey have 
been using calves to test artifi
cial heart devices for years, 
and hope they will soon be 
able to implant a battery-pow
ered heart assist pump inside a 
human.
And soon after that, perhaps 
as early as within the next two 
years, a patient at Hershey 
could become the first person 
to receive a totally implanted 
artificial heart like the one 
keeping Too Close alive..
Doctors hope artificial heart 
devices could help thousands 
of people every year who suf
fer from serious heart disease.
A heart assist device called 
the Arrow Lionheart was 
developed at Penn States 
College of Medicine in con
junction with Arrow 
International, Inc. The device 
is in clinical trials in Europe 
and trials are expected to begin 
in the next few months in the 
United States.
In Germany, a heart assist 
pump beats away inside a man 
who, without it, would proba
bly have died months ago.
He has end-stage congestive 
heart failure and, like thou
sands of people with heart 
trouble, also has a condition 
that makes him ineligible for a 
heart transplant.
Now, the LionHeart has 
taken over some of the bloodpumping work for his heart. 
Its not a full artificial heart; its 
just a device that sits below the 
heart and assists some of the 
blood pumping. But its a fore
runner to the fully implanted 
heart that researchers are test
ing in calves.
The first patient in Europe, 
who had the pump installed on 
October 26, 1999, is still alive. 
Nine others have agreed to try 
the device.
Arrow and Penn State are 
using data from th patients 
experiences to help persuade 
the U.S. government to allow 
them to test the LionHeart in 
their research.
Its remarkable, Rosenberg 
said. Youll have somebody 
who cant get out of bed, cant 
brush their teeth, and in three 
weeks, theyre on an exercise 
bike doing a couple of miles.
The lab at Hershey is chiefly 
concerned with only one 
organ: the heart. Its ari excit-. 
ing project, said John 
Brighton, who directs a teach
ing and learning consortium at 
University Park after stepping 
down as Penn States executive 
vice president and provost in 
1998.
The LionHeart has no wires 
or hoses passing through the 
skin. It is powered by a sixpound battery pack that a 
patient carries outside of the 
body, which actually transmits 
power through the skin using 
flat coils of wire.
The totally artificial heart, 
like the one inside Too Close, 
runs using the same type of 
power source. A small backup 
battery inside the body keeps 
the heart running if the patient 
needs to take off battery pack 
to take a shower, for example.
The LionHeart system has 
over 20 post-graduate theses 
built into it, Thompson said.
The pump assembly is about 
the same size as a real heart, 
but made of titanium. Wires 
and hoses attach it to three 
other components: a power 
coil, a small computer and a 
circular bag that regulates the 
pressure of the pump. Within
the computer processor is an 
FM transmitter that sends data 
from the heart to a computer.
In the case of Too Close, his 
attendants hold an antenna up 
to his side and a graph of his 
heartbeat appears on a com
puter screen.
The patients in Europe mon7 
itor their own statistics on per? 
sonal computers at home. If 
something seems wrong, the 
Arrow team in Pennsylvania 
can connect to the patients 
computers by modem and help 
doctors in Europe solve the 
problem.
Years of research at Penn 
State has survived off grants 
and private contributions, 
drawing millions of dollars 
from the federal government 
and private companies. 
Approval for real-world trials 
with both devices seems withr 
in reach for both Penn State 
devices - the LionHeart assist 
pump and the totally implant
ed heart - and theres a focus 
on who it will help.
The Institute of'Medicine* 
part of the National Academy 
of Sciences, estimated in 1991 
that these devices could bene
fit between 35,000 and 70,000 
people a year. Only a few thousand donor hearts are avail
able each year for transplants, 
and many patients cannot 
accept a donor heart because 
of other illnesses.
Rosenberg points out the 
cost for an artificial heart is 
about the same as the cost of a 
heart transplant - or the alter^ 
natives.
And with the U.S. popular 
tion aging, heart disease is still 
the leading cause of death.
For the purposes of the 
research, the FDA orders that 
the calves live no longer than 
91 days, Prophet said.
Researchers will examine 
Too Close after he dies,' 
Prophet explained, to get infor
mation about how well his 
body held up with the artificial 
heart at work.
It never ceases to amaze 
you just how complex the 
heart in itself is, he said. '
Flu Shots
When:
Thursday, December 7 from 9:00 am to 1:00 pm
Where:
Student Health Service 
Morewood Gardens, E 101
Cost:
$12.00 for faculty, staff, students
CMU I.D. required
Recommended for:
1. Individuals 55 years of age and older.
2. Individuals with chronic lung or heart problems including asthma.
3. Individuals who have required regular medical follow-up or 
hospitalization during the preceding year because of diseases including 
diabetes, severe kidney problems or problems with the immune system.
4. Individuals who are taking medications that suppress the immune system.
5. Teenagers up to and including 18 years of age on long-term aspirin 
. therapy.
Sponsored by Student Health Services
Division of Student Affairs . ,Advertisement
Just became
you didnt finish/1
mean V0U OOntmean yOU OOP I h3V6
to pay for it.
Sometimes college doesn't turn out as you expected. But if you took 
out a student loan, you have to pay il back whether or not you stay through graduation. If not, you could he turned down for credit cards, car loans, am 
mortgages. Fortunately, PHEAA has lots of ways to' '
So keep in touch after you leave campus.
Learn more at
i help you manage the responsivi
H or call 1.800.328.0!Creating Access to tluaition

---------------------------------------------------

University ShoppeKirr Commons
December 13 -14, (10 - 6) 
December 15, (10-5) 
December 18 - 20, (10 - 6) 
December 21, (10 - 5)
Dont throw 
your cash 
away!

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment
true to its
.making 
Is one
inovie
Great
4, December 2000 THE TAJR.TAN Page B7
PmIu ,s bm.,mT zmue,is MDSSS
DDDIsh w2m mew i C2IwHe WmNw
Fo2m oiv W,sm x,k9e[
 Touchstone Pictures. All Rights Reserved.
by Lindsay Clark
byCaamreywr
It seems like just yesterday we were all panicking 
about Y2K, but the year 2000 is nearly over. Here are 
some of the best movies of the new millennium to 
keep you entertained over that long winter break.
9. Gladiator  This movie is probably the 
biggest surprise of the year. Of course, it is bloody, 
with not one but two decapitations and many more 
stabbings and slashings to offer. However, former 
Oscar nominee Russell Crowe manages to create 
such a compelling character that you cant help but 
cheer as he hacks his way around the screen. It isnt 
high art, but its great entertainment.
8. The Virgin Suicides  As the title indicates, 
this movie is definitely no fluff piece. Dark and dis
turbing, this tale about five sisters dealing with the 
confusion of adolescence under the supervision of 
strict Catholic parents is not for those who want to 
leave the theater with a smile on their face. The 
fascinated yet detached narration of a neighbor 
only makes this movie more haunting. This one 
will make you think.
7. Shanghai Noon  Anyone who has not seen 
this movie is definitely wondering why it is on this 
list. This movie doesnt pretend to be anything 
other than what it is: an action-packed, laugh-aminute fluff piece. This movie should be appreciat
ed for its sheer entertainment power. Jackie Chan 
and Owen Wilson have a level of chemistry which 
is seldom seen anymore. Need a break from study1 This movie will do the trick.
6. X-Men  This movie is enjoyable for both 
I hardcore fans and neophytes. The movie stays reabook origins, even includrandom bits of X-Men trivia, such as Storms 
 :i. Hugh Jackman, an Australian 
...j American film debut as Wolverine, is, 
casting director put it, so sexy, people 
* the video monitor would melt. This 
-j visually fun, with tremendous effects by 
. Domain, and is peppered with hilarious 
j on a Saturday night.
Best In Show - This quirky mockumentary 
t dog shows and their participants exposes a 
7 world, even more cutthroat than corAmerica. Anyone who has seen director
Christopher Guests previous mockumentaries, 
This Is Spinal Tap (written by Guest) and Waiting 
for Guffman (written and directed by Guest), can 
expect much of the same absurdity and satirical 
humor from Guest and his veteran cast. The improvisational dialogue gives this movie a freshness 
that cant be found in a script.
4. Billy Elliot  This tale of a young boy in a min
ing town who wants to become a ballet dancer is 
heart-warming without becoming corny. Jamie 
Bell, the young actor who plays Billy, has the sensi
tivity and intensity of a star, as he most likely will 
be when the Hollywood execs see this movie. The 
story isnt anything groundbreaking, but it is hon
estly and compellingly told in a way that sets it 
apart from most other coming-of-age movies.
3. High Fidelity  This hilarious adaptation of 
Nick Hornbys noyel of the same title is John 
Cusack at his best. Add to the mix Jack Black, in his 
best performance to date, and Todd Louiso as the 
musical moron twins, and you have one of the 
best romantic comedies in the past decade. 
Cusacks recount of his worst five breakups to date 
changes his character, Rob, from a repugnant, 
cheating louse to an endearing, if flawed, dweeb. 
Great to watch with friends or with that special 
someone.
2. Almost Famous  The most surprising part of 
this movie is that its based on a real story. William, 
the dorky 15-year-old incarnation of screenwriter 
Cameron Crowe, is a writer. He goes on tour with 
an up-and-coming band, Stillwater, and ends up 
getting featured on the cover of Rolling Stone. In 
the process he falls in love with the rock star 
lifestyle and with a band-aid named Penny Lane. 
This coming-of-age story celebrates the un-cool in 
all of us.
1. Chicken Run  This British claymation movie, 
from the creators of Wallace and Gromit, isnt just 
for kids. In fact, most of the best jokes are probably 
lost on the pre-adolescent crowd. This sophisticat
ed comedy references old war movies such as The 
Great Escape and Stalag 17 with a subtle, multi-layered wit reminiscent of Jim Henson. This movie 
sends a message of empowerment to hens every
where, with the main character Ginger taking con
trol in true girl-power fashion and getting the 
chickens off the ground. Mel Gibson is hilarious as 
the voice of the studly rooster, Rocky. Rent it with 
your family; everyone will love it.
1
N
T
H
E
Y
E
A
R
2 
0 
0 
0
C,swmu umI] 1,sm9I
by Paul Richelmi
byCaamreywr
Soon Carnegie Mellon students will be breath
ing a sigh of relief: relief that the fall semester is 
over, and that we are one semester closer to grad
uation. Most of us will be heading home to spend 
time with our families and hang out with our 
high school friends. Well hear enthusiastic 
descriptions of the plethora of fun that our high 
school buddies are having at their respective 
schools. Well cringe as they talle about parties 
every night of the week, and all of their good 
times. There is only one way to shut them up and 
curb the jealousy: see a movie!
The following comprehensive guide will help 
you chose which movie is right to help you stifle 
your friends and enjoy peace and quiet. There are 
. lOieature films coming out during winter break, 
covering a wide range of genres. No matter what 
your taste, there is bound to be a flick for you.
December 22
Family Man  This Nicholas Cage film comes 
across as a potentially heartwarming film. A 
lonely investment banker (Cage) who leads an 
empty and unrewarding life wakes up one morn
ing to find himself next to his college girlfriend. 
His life is totally transformed as he lives the life of 
a family man instead of a yuppie urbanite. He 
learns the meaning of love from his wife (Tea 
Leoni) and his family, and lives happily ever after.
This movie definitely has potential to be good, 
if it avoids corniness and dumb clichs. Cage and 
Leoni are fine actors, and I think theyll be able to 
portray their characters and the story in an enter
taining fashion. Based on the trailer and various 
articles on this movie, I would definitely recom
mend seeing Family Man this winter break. (PG13)
Miss Congeniality  Sandra Bullock stars in 
this action/comedy as a rough and unpolished 
FBI agent who is transformed into a beauty 
queen. There is a suspected bombing plan in the 
Miss America pageant, and the FBI is called to 
investigate. Michael Caine, who plays Vic 
Melling, trains Bullock (Miss New Jersey) in the 
style and behavior of a pageant regular. The FBI
wants to foil the plan from the inside.
This movie certainly has a high potential for 
cheesiness. The trailer just screams corny. 
However, it may redeem itself in the theatre, 
depending on how well the plot is presented, and 
how effective Bullocks transformation is. She 
will really have to contrast her two sides to make 
this film work. Id a bit hesitant to see this film in 
the theatre; Ill personally wait for the video. 
(PG-13)
Castaway  This Robert Zemeckis and Tom 
Hanks reunion takes viewers into the head of a 
FedEx executive whose plane crashes in the mid
dle of the ocean. This accident leaves him strand
ed on a desert island, away from life and his 
fiance (Helen Hunt) for four years. When he is 
finally rescued, he must deal with day to day life 
again, and his heartbroken fiance.
This movie looks to be absolutely intriguing, at 
least from the trailer. It will be an introspective 
movie, sometimes without dialogue, as we see 
Tom Hanks alone on the island. Hanks reported
ly lost 40 pounds and grew a large beard for the 
role. This movie is a must-see for winter break; 
dont come back without having seen it. (PG-13)
December 25
All The Pretty Horses  This movie, based upon 
the novel of the same name, shows the journey of 
two post WWII cowboys looking for a better life 
in Mexico. This Billy Bob Thornton film shows 
Matt Damon and Henry Thomas venturing south, 
finding nothing but trouble. Along the way John 
Grady Cole (Damon) finds himself in a Mexican 
prison and in love with a ranchers daughter.
Although no trailer was available, this movie 
seems to show a long, drawn-out story of a hardluck cowboy. However, its not apparent what the 
movie is about beyond that. This drama/western 
is shrouded in mystery..I guess well have to go to 
the theatre to see what its all about. (PG-13)
January 5
Choclat Yes, you read it correctly, there is no 
second o or e in this title. This romantic come
dy is set in a small French village, where a moth
er and daughter open their own chocolate shop.
see PREVIEW, page B9
Music 2K: A 1Iem iu tisrG
Touchstone Pictures. All Rights Reserved.
(Top photo) Chain gang escapees Delmar (Tim Blake Nelson, left), Everett Ulysses McGill (George 
Cooney, center), and Pete (John Turturro) in 0 Brother, Where Art Thou?
(Bottom photo) The efforts from High Fidelity actors (from left, Jack Black, Todd Louiso, John 
Cusack, and Lisa Bonet) scored them a place in the years Top Nine.
by Ryan Hamilton
Staffwriter
To call this the year of commercialism 
in music would be to ignore decades of 
corporate tyranny over the scene, but we 
leave 2000 firmly in the midst of a bottled-pop era. The biggest achievement of 
the year was N Syncs shattering of 
SoundScan records, selling over 2.4 mil
lion copies in its first week. 1 hate to 
break it to you, but that means more 
than just 12 -15 year old girls are buying 
it. That means either you bought it, or 
your brother, or mother, or aunt bought 
it. And you probably ignored Badly 
Drawn Boys release, The Hour of 
Bewilderbeest.
This can be attributed to several 
things. As many critics have noted, the 
rock scene has lost its edge. Sure, Green 
Days new album, Warning, may be their 
best, but its rock-pop thats surpassingly 
lacking in edge. Modern rock radio has 
degenerated into endless streams of
Matchbox 20s and Vertical Horizons, dif
ferentiated only by Blink 182, whose live 
album, unsurprisingly, fails to cover any 
new territory.
The hip-hop scene was long ago taken 
over by bling-bling commercialism and 
gangster stereotypes, and this year was 
no different, with Nelly topping the 
charts. Here, there is a movement, how
ever: Lots of underground bands seem'to 
be drifting towards the top, bringing hiphop back to its roots while expanding the 
territory it can cover. New albums such 
as Jurassic 5s Quality Control (which 
looks to top several album-of-the-year 
lists), Dilated Peoples The Platform, 
MOPs Warriorz, and the comeback of 
De La Soul with Art Official Intelligence: 
Mosaic Thump give more hope to this 
genres future. But for right now, the fact 
remains that anything with Master Ps 
name on it goes platinum.
Their are other bright spots: 
Amazingly, Radioheads avante-garde 
release Kid A opened at number one. 
Elliott Smith continues to produce tearinducing sadcore on Figure 8, and 
Erykah Badus new album Mamas Gun, 
which she writes and produces com
pletely herself, is getting rave reviews. 
But these are largely falling under the 
cultural radar, while Im able to sing I 
Want It That Way by heart. (Cant you?)
Something has to change. Weezer and 
the Breeders are both expecting new 
albums out next year, but somehow a 
post-grunge revival seems unlikely. 
Perhaps we need better hard rock acts 
than Limp Bizkit. Chocolate Starfish and 
the Hotdog Flavored Water should top a 
lot of reasons were ashamed to have 
been alive in this year lists. Its entirely 
possible, however, that rock has run its 
way into the ground. Some (The Dandy 
Warhols Thirteen Tales From Urban 
Bohemia, PJ Harveys Stories From the 
City, Stories From the Sea) are still doing 
it beautifully, but are they saying any
thing new? But I digress. Thanks for 
youre time . now get to Sam Goody 
before they run out of overpriced copies 
of the Backstreet Boys Black & Blue.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  DECEMBER 4, 2000
Wit performance lives up to its name
THEATER REVIEWFilm depicts the nature of addiction
FILM REVIEW
by Ryan Friedman
byCaamreywr
Darren Aronofsky, director of 1998s Pi, has 
released one of the most dark and striking films of 
2000 with his newest film. Some people might 
claim that Requiem for A Dream is like the film 
Trainspotting, in that both films deal with young 
people becoming heroin addicts; however, that is 
their only similarity. Aronofskys film is truly a mas
terpiece of expression in that every aspect of the 
film complements the underlying tone of darkness, 
desperation, and bleakness. Alternating camera 
angles, moody color exposure, and split screening 
bring you to the forefront of what the character is 
feeling and truly transport you to another world you 
wouldnt necessarily want to be in.
Brighton Beach, with the deteriorating rides and 
carnival booths of Coney Island, serves as the back
drop for the film where the sinewy, pale-skinned 
Harry Goldfarb (Jared Leto) roams the streets and 
boardwalks as a heroin junkie. His desperation is 
clear from the first scene of the film where Harry 
and fellow junkie Tyrone (Marlon Wayans) are seen 
stealing Harrys mothers television set to sell for 
money to buy dope. The pairs only goal in life is to 
shoot up as much as possible and they come up with 
a plan to deal dope on the street with the goal of 
scraping enough dough together to buy a stash of 
pure heroin. Harry is forced to deal with the dan
gers of street dealings and the deceit and untrust
worthiness of dealers and suppliers as he tries to 
support a growing heroin habit. The viewer watch
es as he loses the ability to control his own life and 
events spiral out of control.
Thrill-seeker and aspiring clothing designer
steps as if his patients are not important enough to take 
up his valuable time. He speaks using high-falutin tech
nical jargon to portray his intellectual prowess and to 
cover his inability to relate to others on a personal level.
Designed by Mark Wendland, the set encompasses 
many theatrical and functional aspects. The main por
tion of the stage is left mostly empty in order to sym
bolize Bearings barren emotional life. The various 
chalkboards separate the main part of the stage from 
the back part where many of the props and medical 
equipment are placed and also separate Bearing from 
the doctors when she is receiving tests and medical 
assistance. Additionally, the chalkboards serve as visu
al aids to the different stages of Bearings life, such as 
her learning to read as a child, her teaching days and 
the doctors explanation of ovarian cancer. The music 
that plays at certain intervals sounds as though it is 
from ER, signifying Bearings movements from one test 
to another, from one crucial moment to another in the 
hospital. The flashing of lights at times when Bearing is
Marion (Jennifer Connelly) is Harrys loving and 
seductively beautiful girlfriend. She, too, is a heroin 
addict and undergoes a drastic metamorphosis 
from a dreamy, pampered, and seemingly innocent 
sweetie to a degraded and heartless dope fiend who 
will do anything to support her habit. In the end she 
has exploited and degraded herself to no end, and 
lies on her couch with a smile clutching a bag full of 
heroin.
The last and most disturbing victim of the film is 
Sara Goldfarb (Ellen Burstyn), Harrys mother. 
Suffering from a heavy case of empty nest syndrome 
and the boredom of living alone, she seeks out a 
way to escape from her own depression. After 
receiving a phone call from a television agency say
ing that she will be a contestant on a television 
game show, she becomes addicted to diet pills pre
scribed to her by a phony doctor in order to lose 
weight before the show. Paranoia and hallucina
tions pursue her as she is driven insane by the 
meaninglessness of her own life. Scenes of her 
roaming the streets in her tattered red dress telling 
strangers, Im going to be on television! are unset
tling to watch in Aronofskys twisted, way of filming.
I found many parts of this movie difficult to watch 
in that they were so emotionally graphic. The final 
ending sequence showing the horrific fates of each 
person was agonizing to see but nonetheless awe
inspiring. Requiem for a Dream is by no means a 
happy movie but is definitely a worthwhile and 
meaningful cinematic experience that I highly rec
ommend for anyone sick of mainstream Hollywood 
and in search of something cerebral and artistic.
Final Grade: A
in need of hospital care (i.e. such as the blue that flash-, 
es when a code blue is called) seems to heighten the 
audiences perception of Bearings increasing emotion^ 
al states and reliance on others. Lastly, the lighting is 
right on target, highlighting Bearing when she speaks 
only to the audience (and to herself). One time, lines 
from Donnes poetry shine on Bearing when she is 
teaching her English lessons to the audience, intensify
ing her lectures and suggesting how her work has con* 
sumed her entire life.
The word wit has multiple meanings in this pro
duction. The wit that is intricately woven in Donnes 
poetry is implemented into Bearings life. She finds no 
way to be serious about her emotions so she hides 
behind the mask of wit. Therefore, Wit represents 
Bearings long climb towards the pinnacle of inner, 
peace, coming to terms with (and even influencing 
Posner to consider) the most vital question that life 
poses  is it the human mind or the human heart that 
matters most?
Interested in studying at the.world's largest 
college of art, design and communications?
The five colleges which make up the London 
Institute - Camberwell, Central Saint Martins, 
Chelsea, London Collegeof Fashion 
and London College of Printing - offer 
a programme of MA courses which is
to none. Courses include book arts, 
ion, communication design, design 
, film, fine art, graphics, 
design, multimedia, scenography 
iles - more layers than an pnion, 
fish than as Hirst.
Morris (Ref: TAR), 
tute, 65 Davies Street,
UK
0 7514 6480 
0 7514 6212
.ac.uk 
.id.linst.ac.uk
Bir ni a y vi
an opinion
ut then you're 
n onion
by Jennifer Schaupp
byCaamreywr
Winner of a 1999 Pulitzer 
Prize, Wit, Margaret Edsons 
comical and emotionallyprovocative look at life and 
death, is receiving media atten
tion and standing ovations, and 
causing many tear-stained faces 
at the OReilly Theater in down
town Pittsburgh. This play will 
run its course until December 
10. Directed by Ethan
McSweeny, Wit captures the 
essence of Dr. Vivian Bearing 
(Lisa Harrow), an accomplished 
scholar and professor of seventeenth-century poetry, in partic
ular the poetry of John Donne.
Bearing, who is dying from 
ovarian cancer, comes across as 
a self-assured, proud and even 
arrogant individual who 
believes that she can master 
anything. Yet the cancer and the 
severe chemotherapy treat
ments begin to take control over 
her, and she finds herself weak 
and vulnerable. Ultimately, her 
goal becomes not only fighting 
the cancer battle but also fight
ing to get in touch with her feel
ings. She has studied the com
plexities of Donnes metaphysi
cal poetry all her life, yet she is 
incapable of fathoming the sim
plicity of human kindness.
Dr. Jason Posner (Patrick 
Darragh), a former student of 
Dr. Bearings, is now one of her caretakers. He parallels 
her in that he is more concerned with the professional 
than the personal aspects of his life. To Posner, Bearing 
is more a research case than she is a person. Bearing 
regretfully realizes that the way Posner treats her is the 
same way that she treated her students. There are 
moments that richly illustrate her increasing accep
tance of herself as an emotional being who is not afraid 
to reach out for help. When her not-so-well-read nurse, 
Susie Monahan (Opal Alladin), shows compassion for 
her situation, Bearing does not push her away but actu
ally allows the nurse to call her sweetheart, a name 
she despises. Further, Bearings former professor, E.M. 
Ashford (Deann Mears), a woman who she holds in 
high esteem for helping her to become the renowned 
individual that she is, becomes her first and only visitor. 
She holds Bearing in her arms and reads her a simple 
childrens story.
Most of the action takes place in the hospital room of
photo by Suellen Fitzsimmons/courtesy of Pittsburgh Public Theater
Lisa Harrow is Dr. Vivian Bearing in Margaret EdsonJs Wit. The Pulitzer Prizewinning drama runs at the OReilly Theater through December 10.
a cancer center. The story is told-through Bearings 
eyes; she remarks on the actions of the scene and the 
words of the other characters on stage. She shares an 
intimacy with the audience as if she is writing her pri
vates thoughts and day-to-day activities in a diary. 
Bearing takes the audience.back to such specific events 
in her life as her learning to read at age five, her teach
ing days at the university and her own time as a student 
under Professor Ashford.
Harrow skillfully plays the role of a profound scholar 
and a dying cancer victim. As an English professor, she 
speaks each word articulately, using extensive vocabu
lary. Her tone is brusque, arrogant and oftentimes sar
castic. She walks the stage confidently with long strides 
and powerful gestures. However, when the cancer and 
the chemotherapy treatments begin to weaken her, her 
language is no longer precise and- proper, her voice 
becomes fainter and her movements become slow and 
tentative. Darragh plays to a tee the role of a selfabsorbed, stolid, snotty doctor. He walks with hurried

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  DECEMBER 4, 2000
New Music
Christmas movie soundtrack rates mediocre
Artist: Various
Title: How the Grinch Stole 
Christmas Original Soundtrack 
Label: Interscope
Final Grade: Bby Ryan Hamilton
Staffwriter
This is, admittedly, the detestable by
product of a film which managed, besides 
huge box office returns, to destroy one of 
this reviewers few happy childhood 
Christmas memories. Regardless, its a 
swingin little album.
It doesnt begin promisingly: the album 
openers with Grinch 2000, an ill-concieved, laughable Busta Rhymes/Jim Carrey 
collaboration (Hes definitely not the dude 
you can trust/he be bouncin with all your 
goods and leave you bitin the dust). It 
quickly picks up, however, with envy-of-allthe-people-having-a-good-time-themed 
numbers from Barenaked Ladies and Ben 
Folds, who, fresh off his eponymous Fives 
breakup, gives us some hope for the future.
Some of the tracks tend towards the 
bizarre: The Eels (remember Novocaine For 
The Soul? Thats nice.) offer up a song from 
the point of the view of the Grinchs pitiable 
dog (When I sleep I like to dream/of rabbits 
in the .snow/Jumpin right into my 
jaws/from their rabbit hole), and Little
Isidore and the Inquisitors (dont ask me) 
falsetto their way to holiday spirit on 
. Christmas of Love.
Jim Carrey gets a track to himself, also: his 
suprisingly non-irritating version of Youre 
a Mean One, Mr. Grinch. He hams it up too 
much for my taste, and switches back and 
forth between vocal styles, but it does retain 
the requisite spirit. And hes an excellent 
vocalist.
Rounding out the first half of the album 
are a jazzy little ditty from Smash Mouth and 
a couple of bland offerings from N Sync 
(perhaps trying to maintain their visibility 
now that the Backstreet Boys new one has 
hit shelves) and Faith Hill.
The second 35 minutes or so comprises the 
movies score, done by James Horner. This is 
only interesting so far as youre a fan of 
movie scores, and childrens movie scores at 
that. A great place to look if youre in need of 
orchestral pieces about stealin Christmas.
So the albums suprisingly good. No one 
really wants it sitting on their shelves, 
though, and it lacks appeal to any target 
group that this reviewer can think of. Just 
rest assured that this album, which youll 
never buy, isnt all that bad.
Controversial rocker disappoints with new album
by Debra Halpern
Staffwriter
Who is Marilyn Manson? At first he became 
the hated Antichrist figure, and then he took 
on glam rock in a unique way by sporting a pair 
of breasts. Now he is a Christ figure with Holy 
Wood, his latest release.
Holy Wood is the third part to the trilogy 
about a boy named Adam Kadmon. The trilogy 
goes as follows: Antichrist Superstar created 
the ultimate destroyer and a tragic ending. 
Mechanical Animals worked backwards to the 
middle with the sardonic character of Omega 
and now finally, Adam Kadmon is the protago
nist of Holy Wood. This idea comes straight 
from Marilyn Mansons obsessive need to cling 
to his fourteen-year-old scarred childhood.
 The album consists of 17 tracks that want to 
encourage the audience to believe Manson is 
the answer to all the cynical nature in the 
teenage world. He is petty and long-winded. It 
is really sad that after Mansons second album 
and his new invention, his audience was ready 
for another exciting change; however, him 
; becoming Christ is not the change they longed 
' for.
Along with the tiring Christ figure, Mansons 
delivery focuses on issues from the sixties, like 
fear, anger, and uncertainty. These are the 
kinds of issues that folk singers preached about 
in an inventive way, which Manson completely 
fails to do. First thing, its no longer relevant  
no one cares anymore about the issues of the 
sixties; and second, Mansons music is not 
inventive, but instead generic.
Besides Mansons concept being completely 
drab, the music he produces has so many dif
ferent levels of this sucks. Holy Wood only 
explores two writing styles: melodic metal and 
screaming loudness. There is no other way to 
describe the noise that Manson makes. The 
album sounds like he didnt even try to make 
the music sound half-decent. In fact, the one 
song that represents this theory best, The 
Death Song, will give you such a big headache 
that you will want to die. All of the songs fit 
under the categories of bad, worst, and save 
me please!
So, whatever you do, dont stop reading the 
paper to purchase Holy Wood, and avoid it no 
matter what. Not even Marilyn Mansons fol
lowing will get into the religious puns or 
believe Manson is their savior. Unlike his other 
albums, its not even funny  its just sad.
Artist: Marilyn Manson 
Titie: Holy Wood 
Label: Interscope
Final Grade: D
Frequent the cinema during your winter break
PREVIEW, from page B7 
This new treat causes a stir in the town, with the 
1 locals consuming the chocolate with haste. The 
; film focuses on many of the lives of the French 
. village people. (Despite the obvious Frenchness 
I of this movie, it is in English)
! Sometimes plotless ensemble movies can be 
! fun to watch. Weve yet to see if Choclat falls into 
.that category. The only big-name actor in the 
film is Johnny Depp, but that doesnt mean 
i much at all. If you are in the mood for an alter! native movie over the break, then this is a good 
pick. (PG-13)
January 12
! Antitrust  Ryan Phillippe plays .a young com
puter whiz in this thriller dealing with computer 
crimes and anti-trust lawsuits. Milo Hoffman 
 (Phillippe) is courted and hired by a prestigious 
I Silicon Valley company, but he soon learns that 
his boss is completely ruthless in dealing with 
! anti-trust suits. He gets caught up in the web, 
along with his co-worker (Rachel Leigh Cook), 
and tries to get out.
This movie is fast paced, and due to its techy 
 content, it is sure to go over well with Carnegie 
' Mellon students. Antitrust seems to be inspired 
; by the Bill Gates antitrust suit, but stays away 
from that entirely. I definitely recommend this 
! movie to anyone, it seems to be an exciting and 
I well thought-out film. (PG-13)
Finding Forrester  It is quite odd to see Sir 
iSean Connery in a drama, but in Finding 
Forrester, he apparently is quite good. This 
 movie shows the relationship between a reclu! sive writer (Connery) and Jamal Wallace (Rob 
Brown), a basketball standout, at a local prep 
school. Upon their chance meeting, Connery 
realizes Wallaces writing and creative potential,
' and secredy makes Wallace his protege.
Although Connery is in this film, the real star
is Brown, the young man who plays Jamal 
Wallace. This movie shows much promise, and 
could be one of the best of the holiday season. It 
seems to be the perfect American story of a com
pletely self-made man. This movie would be just 
right to see on a cold and snowy winter night; I 
highly recommend it.
Head Over Heels  Freddie Prinze Jr. seems to 
have broken out of his teeny-bopper typecast in 
this movie. Head Over Heels is a serious 
crime/drama where Jim Winston (Prinze) is sus
pected of murder by his neighbor Monica Potter 
(Amanda Pierce). Oddly enough, Potter finds 
herself falling in love with Winston, and the 
story ensues.
This movie can definitely be good; it has the 
.plot and the characters to make it so. It all 
depends on Prinze; if he is his usual corny self, 
then the movie will fail. This movie is on the bor
der with me, Im not sure whether to see it in the 
theatre, or wait for video. It will be entertaining, 
nonetheless.
O Brother, Where Art 
Thou  Again, another 
movie with an odd premise 
will be in theatres this 
break. This George Clooney 
flick is about three convicts 
who escape from prison to 
get their loot, farms, and 
families back. They lose 
their way many times on 
their journey, meeting 
interesting and colorful 
Southern figures on the 
way.
Upon seeing the trailer, I 
didnt know quite what to 
think. The exquisite camera 
work first impressed me, 
but the story and plot
seemed quite irregular. It was hard to discern 
what exactly would happen, or has happened. 
Admittedly, Im curious. Ill recommend this 
movie on a count of its apparent entertainment 
appeal. Go see it, and enjoy!
13 Days  As the title implies, this movie is 
about the 13 days of the Cuban missile crisis. It 
depicts the conflict between the United States 
and Cuba, but more importantly the conflict 
between Jack and Robert Kennedy. (JFK is 
played by Bruce Greenwood, a bad look-a-like.) 
and the rest of the Presidential staff. Kevin 
Costner stars as Chief of Staff Kenneth 
ODonnell, who is close to the Kennedys at all 
times.
Whatever historical accuracy this movie might 
or might not have, it will be exciting. The conflict 
between John Kennedys generals and Kennedy 
himself will be especially intriguing, as it is a 
story often forgotten. This movie is another 
must-see over winter break.
 New Line Cinema Inc. All Rights Reserved.
(Left to right) Steven Culp (Robert F. Kennedy), Bruce Greenwood (John 
F. Kennedy) and Kevin Costner (Kenny ODonnell) star in 13 Days.
Have some fun in Pittsburgh before you go home
the
can
the
PITTSBURGH, from page B12 
Holiday Concert this Friday at 
1 noon in Rangos Hall of 
; University Center. There, you 
1 hear performances from 
1 Carnegie Mellon Philharmonic, 
Concert Choir, and Repertory 
Chorus with Robert Page as the 
; conductor. They will be playing 
; Anton Bruckners Te Deum, 
; Engelbert Humperdincks Hansel 
and Gretel, and Guiseppe Verdis 
Ave Maria among other songs. 
-And, no, The Mr. Hanky Christmas
Poo Song will not be played this 
year.
 There must be an old guy 
named Joe Fraternity in, like, Des 
Moines, Iowa who must get con
fused around this time of year every 
year. The source of confusion is 
Kappa Alpha Thetas annual Mr. 
Fraternity event, which takes 
place this Saturday at 7:30 pm in 
Rangos Ballroom. Ever since poor 
Mr. Fraternity the Man heard of Mr. 
Fraternity the Event, Mr. Fraternity 
the Man has been all excited that us
CMU kids celebrate his life. But Mr. 
Fraternity the Man will be sad
dened to know that Mr. Fraternity 
the Event is actually a fun competi
tion for representatives from the 
campus fraternities where they 
compete in contests such as Evening 
Wear, Toga, Talent, Question and 
Answer, and Beach Wear. But unlike 
Miss America, a combination of an 
audience vote and a panel of judges 
comprised of faculty and staff will 
determine the winner, Mr. 
Fraternity 2000.
 In the 1980s came Black Flag, 
where Henry Rollins and his 
famous, angst-ridden vocals put 
California punk on the map. But for 
those who thought Black Flag was 
hardcore, try Anti-Flag, the guys 
who put Pittsburgh punk on the 
map. Theyll be returning to their 
home city on Sunday the 10th with 
their barrage of songs that are anti 
everything that ends with ism. 
They are performing at Club Laga in 
Oakland. Admission is $7 and the 
show starts at 7 pm.
BY ANDY FRANCIS
Sunshine
Thursday, December 7
Ive been seeing a lot of glum faces around campus and, 
other than the cancellation of Mister Rogers Neighborhood, I 
cant offer any explanation except that there hasnt been a 
movie here on campus documenting the lives of Jewish people 
in a foreign country for three whole weeks! I know, I cant 
believe it happened either, but luckily Sunshines coming to 
you this week, straight outta Central Europe.
Ive noticed that, for whatever reason, Europeans like to 
poke fan at American culture. I guess because they lag behind 
so much in pop culture (no, not you, England) that they need 
to brag about old, boring stuff like the Louvre. Wow, the 
Louvre is so impressive because it has paintings. I cant fathom 
the art world, especially how these extraordinarily pretentious 
people can cough up $600 million for a painting that most gerbils could improve on using only their feet and a piece of yel
low chalk. Other countries in Europe are even more cul
tured, featuring crumbling old buildings! Cmon kids, let hop 
on that plane to Europe today! About the only thing the world 
does credit us with is jazz music (boy do I wish I hadnt used 
the word pretentious already) which, to be honest, I would
nt mind passing off on, say, Mars.
In McConomy Auditorium
The Replacements
Friday, December 8
Sports movies are always so dramatic  the final scene 
always finds the heroes down 6 points (3 runs, 1 goal) and the 
coach (manager, President of the United States) has to give the 
star quarterback (coxswain, lumberjack) enough confidence 
to pull the team (squad, cell block) through. Im certain The 
Replacements is no exception, only with better-looking cheer
leaders. I think itd be great to make a movie called Blowout 
where this team of big-ego superstars dominates the whole 
movie until the end when they meet a scrappy, charismatic 
underdog, who they absolutely maul.
I cant understand why actors/actresses (paging Keanu 
Reeves) feel like they need a few largely unsuccessful movies 
between big hits. John Travolta, probably due to various 
Scientological constraints, spaces his blockbusters between no 
fewer than 27 turkeys. Recording artists can be the same way 
 I still cant explain why the Smashing Pumpkins chumped 
out with Adore. Of course, theres that wise old adage, You 
cant make an omelet without cracking a few eggs, but 
omelets are gross, so I think Ill continue complaining.
At 7:30 pm, 10 pm, and 12:30 am
In McConomy Auditorium
Remember the Titans
Saturday, December 9
Its about time a football-themed movie came to campus  I 
dont know what Im going to do during the 17 hours I have to 
wait after The Replacements hit the off-season on Friday. Too 
bad I dont have one of those cheesy magnetic football simula
tions to tide me over. By the way, you Steeler fans would be 
wise to take this films title to heart and recall the two crushing 
blows Tennessee dealt them this year, lest they get too excited 
about their lucky squeaker over Oakland.
Talking about Pittsburgh turns my thoughts to bad music 
and, consequently, VH1 (All Goo Goo Dolls, all the time) and 
the ridiculous Top 100 lists they concoct. (Selected by a panel 
of critics, monkeys, and deaf musicians.) I mean, any list of 
the 100 Greatest Rock Songs is bound to ruffle a few feath
ers, particularly one that includes anti-rockers like Patsy Cline 
and A1 Green, but VHls debacle featured nine lame-o Beatles 
tunes and a whopping one song from the entire decade of the 
90s. Obviously, acts like the Beastie Boys and Rage Against the 
Machine are far too cool for VH1 to even comprehend, but I 
thought theyd be able to catch up to Jeremy or Today at 
the very least. Guess not.
At 7:30 pm, 10 pm, and 12:30 am
In McConomy Auditorium
Cartoon Surprise
Sunday, December 10
In a perfect world, cartoons and free donuts (its true, its 
true) would be in McConomy every Sunday night, except for 
those splendid occasions when the movie people refuse to give 
out the name of the film theyre screening. I find it hard to 
believe that there can be anyone who doesnt like classic car
toons, particularly quality ones like Voltron that featured no 
more than three minutes of original animation per episode 
and shows like G.I. Joe where yes, knowing was half the battle, 
but thankfully fire and explosions were the other half.
Cartoons and Nintendo are pretty much the last strands of 
youth weve got left here at CMU. I see people my age wearing 
suits on a regular basis, and I have to pay something called 
rent each month to a large obnoxious man so he doesnt 
throw a monkey in the wrench and kick me out. Theres noth
ing like a good round of any game involving Mario or a clas
sic Bugs Bunny short to help me forget about tomorrows 
super-fun homework assignment and incite me to call up the 
ACME corporation and order some dynamite right away.
Well, this is my last column ever. Thanks for reading.
At 7 pm and 11:30 pm (but you can come and go as you please)
In McConomy Auditorium

---------------------------------------------------

U FII H6LU
loao 
8*1 MA* 
'AE$W4A0i
WELL, you fciOOu) 
T2Iw Tt-tey SAy : 
30U CArOT SLL "OlSHAMOfOy 
UlITHOOT "HAftMOiOy,
' let's FAce it. 
Tv utoftD that 
SUMS OP THIS
v btjto,istR,l ,e
X'-piSHAMOpM. "
by Scott AdamsOH yeAH? WELL, 
you CA^T SP6LU 
With
out "HAftM." y
YES, ASSUMING YOU 
CAN DO THAT WHILE 
LYING ON YOUR 
BACK WITH 
YOUR MOUTH 
OPEN.
WALLY, WE CANT 
FIND OUR CPR 
DUMMY. I NEED 
YOUR HELP.
FINDING
IT?
OH 'itAW? WGU-, 
OO OV>T SPtLL 
"HftM" WITHOUT 
v "UA.. " ^
OH ^tAH? WtLl,
aOO THEAR SPttL
"HA" WiTHJr 
v "HA." .I AM SURROUNDED 
BY PEAR-SHAPED, 
BEEF-EATING, 
MIDDLE-AGED MEN 
WHO I PREFER NOT 
TO TOUCH.
THE COMPANY WILL 
BE HOLDING MAN
DATORY CPR 
TRAINING FOR 
ALL EMPLOYEES.
UH-OH.. .
I HOPE THAT'S 
JUST STRESS.
gOb 
RIlD 
HAfi 
(4A:
oROsqznD 'iE
CArJ ew,kk 
-OosHToserttie.
WE'D BETTER 
STRIP HIM 
AND SHAVE 
HIM JUST 
IN CASE.
UM. . .
I DON'T
THINK
SO.
IS CPR THE ONE 
WHERE WE TAKE 
HIS KIDNEY AND 
LEAVE HIM IN A 
TUB OF ICE?
ASOK IS DOWN 
DOES ANYONE 
KNOW CPR?
OKAY, WE HAVE ONE 
VOTE FOR USING CPR 
ONE VOTE FOR THE 
HEIMLICH MANEUVER
I DON'T 
SEE HOW 
WE CAN 
GET BEHIND 
HIM.
WHAT IF 
WE DRILL 
A HOLE 
FROM 
BELOW?
AND TWO VOTES 
FOR SNEAKING UP 
BEHIND HIM AND 
YELLING "BOO."
APPARENTLY OUR 
TEAM-BUILDING 
POTLUCK LUNCH 
DIDN'T TAKE.
I'LL SEE IF THE GUYS 
IN MARKETING 
KNOW FIRST AID.
REALLY? I PICKED 
THAT INTERN IN 
OUR ENGINEERING 
DEAD POOL!
WHICH ONE OF 
YOU ANGELS 
ADMINISTERED 
THE LIFE-SAVING 
CPR?
SPEAKING OF 
LIFESAVERS 
I COULD SURE 
s USE ONE 
L RIGHT NOW.I'M
ALIVE!
Real mu mature eaiV-Y
Jslater andrew.cmu.edujslater andrew.cmu.edu
Slushy sidewalks, freezing winds, 
random hail showers, wet socks...
Have you ever noticed how during weeks 
when J has been up for 30 or more hours 
/ were just cut and pasted 
/ for both comics?
Well look at the other comic this week, 
it's exactly the same pictures as this one, 
/ he just changed the words.
Well it's that time of year again. 
It's snowing in Pittsburgh.
1 mean, I'm not even happy right now, 
and look at me I'm smiling like a goon.
All hail Lucifer, 
Lord and Master!And praying to Satan to 
deliver us from the Hell 
of Pittsburgh winter!
I don't think he bothered 
with a punch line this 
week either.
A/utiear
THE TARTAN  DECEMBER 4, 2000
m
UlEJIEQIil E EM
11VI
please exit to the rear
W
elcome to the last issue of The Tartan for the year. 
Thats right, boys and girls, youre to be deprived 
of our very special comics for more than a month as we 
rest, recuperate, relax, recharge, retard, regenerate, repli
cate, and generally make fools of ourselves at New Years 
parties. Come, join in the fun! If any of you boys and girls 
are aspiring comic artists, email dwindlehop@cmu.edu.

---------------------------------------------------

IN RO 4 VERNES COZ.Y 
WINTER 'HABITAT'...
IN RJ & VERNE'S COZ.Y 
WINTER 'HABITAT*...
IN RJ . VERNE'S COZY 
WINTER HA&1TAT"...
Over the HedgeThe Harder They Are The Farder They ChewUPGRADE?PRETTYREALISTIC,HUH?...
THOUGH WEMAY HAVE
SOMELIABILITYISSUES...VERNE?...
VERNE?....
RJ S HOLOGRAPHIC L211 ^STATION.Tapeworm, Tapeworm, Tapeworm and Me
by: James Kenney (email: jpkenney@andrew.cinu.edu)
BEHOLD MY LATEST INVENTION..
L21k9lllI CANT FIND A 
PLAYSTATION 2 k9WN6T2TlF
HOW 2Td21ll YOU NEED TO 
InL2k4T7lll
I JUST FIDDLED SPARE PARTS TOGETHER...A LITTLE OF THIS...A LITTLE OFTHAT. ..
AND YOU BUILT YOUR OWN 
61G1L2kn60K
byCamb
bWbdTo3J
k94 N6W 91d3
DO YOU THINK kIl I DO IS SIT ON oW 2Tk2 ...WATCH 
7V...AND T9dT2dk09 YOU WITH MY T2I40dT K1ooT9dk2W1N G0OTb oT22W nkLTk9d3J
BUT TWO OUT OF THREE 
AINT BAD.
The tape worm in my stomach has 
an insatiable appetite, he prefers to eat 
prepared meals or snacks, but will settle 
for nibbling on the side of my stomach 
if there is no food available. I'm a slave 
to this worm, intense pangs of hunger 
all day long, even after a huge meal.
I sway down the street, my underweight 
body cracking and aching as I go. 
Leaving me dehydrated and dizzy, the 
clever worm works his way through my 
stomach lining, towards my liver. I am 
almost sure he devoured half of my liver, 
before I intercepted with some pasta.
OH....WEU.... YES, NASA 
HAD THE gkb0K K19KTnd; BUT 
/HAD THE MOST IMPORTANT 
CONTRIBUTION.
....AND IT SAYS RIGHT 
HERE: 'n21nT2dW 1O 9kbk7
YOU HAVE 
NO b+0GGblll YOU HAVE NO 09dTGGTKdIkG 
KI201b0dWlll
YOU COBALT. 
PAINTED THERE /SA IT BLUE. DIFFERENCE.i
I6WDO YOU FIND IT SO HARD1 TO BELIEVE I INVENTED MY HOLOGRAPHIC L211HTR l 
bdkd019 GAMING SYSTEM?
BUT IT PROBABLY HAS SOME K2IK0kG knnG0Kkd019 WITH THE SPACESTATION...Io 9kH0Lkd019 12 G0OT bInn12dJlll y
HOUSTON, Fok2b9TTnb K6TT2GTk4T2bF JUST ISNT THE SAME ON DVD.'
FINDERSKEEPERS.YKNOW, RJ...
NASA MAY MISS 
THIS OVERGROWN 61G1L2kn60K 0okL09L THINGY 0 YOU "ACQUIRED."___
J|TkoR|AJ ( CANT HAVEa IT BACK... J. \ ITS TOO  lA V COOL. .
VAAHH/
Now that half of my liver was destroyed,
I can barely hold my liquor. Drunken fool 
by night, I wake up dehydrated beyond 
repair, trembling and vomiting, until the 
small amount of food in my stomach is 
discharged. Then the dry heaving sessions 
begin and don't end until after midnight.
Hopefully one of these days, I will vomit 
so powerfully, that it will expel that 
god forsaken worm from its evil tyranny 
within my belly. The one good thing 
about the tape worm, is that he isn't very 
picky in his tastes. I get the impression 
that he prefers quantity over quality.
THATS BECAUSE ITS /YOrATRE...ITSA PAPER TOWEL ROIL 
WITH THREE TOPSICLE- STICKS STUCK TO IT.
..SHOULD WE CALL THE bTddT2 gIb09Tbb YI2TkIVd
GEE...
YOURERIGHT/SAMMY, SNUCKlTOfFA WHERE TREE LOT... 
EXACTLYDID YOU GIVING IT AWAY 
GET THIS I AND IT LOOKED 
CHRISTMAS I SO LONELY TRFE? h NEXT TO THE V OTHER TREES.
RIGHT APTER WE CALL THE SMARTER bjI022TG bI2TkIlThe Phatmaster
http://phat.res.cmu.edu/phatmaster/
HEY, SAMMYS 'POPSICLE'STICK N PAPERTOWEL ROLL TREE 
TURNED OUT PRETTY NICE AFTER ALL. }
IT JUST NEEDED 
A LITTLE... SPRUCING . UP. .
nbbdlll ph6kdFn W k 
n1 N0d6 bkooWFb Fd2TTF
ll61N 
YOU GUYS ARE THE REST/
F K20oTl
On the surface, it was a massive 
boon to mankind. Crime rates dropped to infinitestimal levels 
Literacy rates were through the 
roof. All war ended instantly. 
Satisfied, I took a nap.
d6kdFb 5 MY d2TT3J QjAND A 'POPSICLE' 
STICK SHALL 
GUIDE THEM.
I woke up one day to realize that my entire existence was a function of the Internet, which everyone insisted on calling "Waiaado," probably because they were Japanese.________________
Since I had the power to control 
people's minds, I chose to implement a utopia based on the 
premise that everyone thinks the same way that I do.________________
CO 0 0oo
TIKt> L> <A< AIEKT O00c oo
X.I
When I awoke, the world was in chaos. Everyone demanded new anime but none were capable of producing it. Fan art attempts ended in abysmal failure.
Greatly disappointed and craving some sweet, sweet animation, I restored the world-exactly the way it was, erasing the events from everyone's mind, including my own.
Go to panel 1The Adventures of HairGirl!!!!!
INSTALLATION
EXHIBITION
fay Ann Lewis
phho ne62eo
She 
heads 
over to 
the local 
angle bar 
on the 
corner .
(HairSirl. being a stick figure, is 
very attracted to angles)HairGirl 
decides 
that it is 
time for a 
night on the 
town!
Nothing but 
angles, all 
night long!
miller 
lite $11
Hey baby. What's your sin? 
What's your cosine ?
makes her 
moue...
Your clever wit and 
volumnious hair might have 
won me over HairGirl, but I 
am no ordinary angle....
And I was HOT in the mood for 
math puns so I will eat you now 
HairGirl!!! I ..... " PACMAN!!!!
Ot500 points! GAME OVERI like to keep a low profile these days

---------------------------------------------------

Calendar
4 December 2000THE TARTANPage Bis
Lewis Black brings his comedy to McConomy
DO PITTSBURGH!
by Greg Nofi
TMywryCeMuwMy T,eySr
For those of you keeping score at home, you now 
have seven days of class remaining. While that is a 
welcome number; it also means that the end of the 
semester is impending. It is now time to look back 
on your fall and determine if you have had a fun 
semester before you go home for winter break and 
find yourself hanging out at boring Blockbuster 
with your friends and wishing you were back at 
school.
If youd like to have an enjoyable final week, 
heres a start:
 It takes a lot of power to have people play 
AC/DC whenever you enter a room. San Diego 
Padre closer Trevor Hoffman has Hells Bells 
pumping on the stadium loudspeaker when he 
comes in for the ninth inning. I once tried hav
ing some buddies blast You Shook Me All Night 
Long during an entry, but the folks in the Wean 
cluster werent pleased with the loud distrac
tion. But the latest superstar to have these tunes 
rockin is Lewis Black. Back in Black serves 
as the intro to his weekly segment of the same 
name on The Daily Show. Tonight at 7 pm, when 
he speaks in McConomy Auditorium of the
University Center for free (for CMU students 
with proper ID), perhaps he will use the same 
introduction. Either way, get ready for an inyour-face, hilarious, intense monologue about 
current affairs thats just as fiery as his opening 
song.
 If Black is an inspiration to you because the 
world that he describes seems ridiculous, you 
can take a step to change that the same night at 
the Oxfam America Hunger Banquet 
which takes place from 6 to 8 pm in Rangos 1 of 
the University Center. If you think that your $5 
admission entities you to a scrumptious meal, 
think again. Each person draws a ticket ran
domly assigning them to the high-, middle- or 
low-income tier and is then served a corre
sponding meal. The 15 percent that in the highincome tier are served a mouth-watering 
gourmet meal. The 30 percent in the middleincome section eat a simple meal of rice and 
beans. Finally, the majority that are in the lowincome tier wait in line for small portions of rice 
and water. This event is designed to simulate 
the unequal distribution of resources around 
the world.
0 Granted, Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra 
(PSO) conductor Mariss Jansons is one of the 
best directors of music in the nation. Even 
though he may be leaving after this year due to
unsatisfactory attendance at PSO events (hint: 
you should go see and support him at a future 
performance), youll have an opportunity to see 
a former PSO conductor: Lorin Maazel. He 
will be conducting a special PSO fundraising 
event this Tliesday at 8 pm in Heinz Hall as part 
of his 70th birthday celebration. Part of the pro
gram will include The Giving Tree, Op. 15, 
which was penned by Maazel himself.
 Duuuuuuuude, the Dark Star Orchestra 
isnt from Star Wars, man, its a Grateful Dead 
cover band, dude.
Well, actually, they do more than Dead cov
ers, they actually recreate old Dead shows: from 
the setlist right down to the microphone place
ment. They do not announce in advance which 
Dead performance they are bringing back to life 
(get it?). Instead, audience members tend to 
pick up on which concert it is because some of 
them were actually at the original.
Think you can do the same? They will be in 
Pittsburgh this Wednesday at 7:30 pm for an all 
ages, four-hour show at Metropol. Tickets can be 
purchased by calling 276-8300.
 If you dont want any of this Jerry Garcia 
nonsense and would just like to have your clas
sical) holiday celebration for once, then be sure 
to attend the annual College of Fine Arts
See PITTSBURGH, page B
courtesy of Comedy Central
Lewis Black's a Daily Show commentator in his weekly 
"Back in Black" feature on the Comedy Central program.
monday, 12/4______
Oxfam America Hunger Banquet. 6 to
8 pm in Rangos 1, University Center. Tickets 
are $5 and available at UC Information Desk.
Lewis Black from Comedy Central. 1
pm in McConomy Auditorium. Admission: 
free with CMU ID. Brought to you by your stu
dent activities fee and AB Comedy.
Kick@$# X-Mas Party 2k. Starting at 
6:30 pm at Metropol and 7 pm at the 
Rosebud, Strip District, the Christmas Party 
with a heart. Proceeds benefit local charities. 
Join the fun and help out some less fortunate 
than you. Presented by 105.9, the X. Contact: 
412-261-2232.
Chamber Recital. 8 pm in the Mellon 
Institute Auditorium. Features students of 
David Premo from CMUs Music Department.
tuesday, 1.2/5__
The Future of Dotcoms lecture by
Tim Draper, venture capitalist Draper Fisher 
Jurvetson. 9 am in McConomy Auditorium, 
University Center.
Negotiation: An Overview of Skills, by
Laurie Weingart. A Graduate Student 
Luncheon Seminar. Noon to 1:30 pm in 
Rangos 3, University Center. Registration: 
www.cmu.edu/adm/apaa/grad/programdate.html.
Wednesday, 12/6
Dark Star Orchestra. 7:30 pm at 
Metropol, doors open at 6:30 pm. Admission: 
$13 in advance, $15 at the door. Contact: 
www.ticketweb.com.
Pittsburgh Penguins vs. Boston 
Bruins. 7:30 pm at the Civic Arena. 
Televised on ESPN. Contact: www.ticketmaster.com.
thursday, 12/7
Film Festival Sankofa. 7 pm at
University of Pittsburgh, Dining Room A, 
William Pitt Union. Admission is free. 
Presented as part of the Womens Studies 
Program.
Proactive Computing: Its Time To 
Get Physical, by David Tennenhouse. 4 pm 
in Wean Hall 7500. A joint CIT/SCS seminar.
Contemporary Ensemble Concert,
conducted by Efrain Amaya. 8 pm in the 
Kresge Theatre, College of Fine Arts building.
Improving Memory Performance in 
Java, by Kathryn McKinley, University of 
Massachusetts, Computer Science
Department. 4 to 5 pm in Scaife Hall, Room 
125 with refreshments at 3:30. A Computing 
Research Association Committee on the 
Status of Women in Computing Research 
(CRA-W)/Lucent Technology Graduate 
Recruiting Panel discussion follows from 5:30 
to 6:30 pm in the Singleton Room, Roberts 
Engineering Hall. Contact:
amp.ece. emu. edu/ECESeminar/.
Flu Clinic. 9 am to 1 pm at Student Health 
Services, E-Tower, Morewood Gardens. Cost: 
$12.
friday, 12/8___
Skibo Coffeehouse Holiday Party. At
Skibo Coffeehouse, University Center. Contact: 
lellock@andrew.cmu.edu.
The Replacements. 7:30, 10 pm, and
12:30 am in McConomy Auditorium, 
University Center. Admission: $1 with CMU ID 
and $3 without. Presented by AB Films. 
Contact: 268-FLMS.
College of Fine Arts Holiday Concert,
featuring the Carnegie Mellon Philharmonic, 
Concert Choir, and Repertory Chorus with 
Anton Bruckner, Engelbert Humperdinck, and 
Guiseppe Verdi. Noon in Rangos Hall, 
University Center.
The Juliana Theory and The Movie 
Life. 7 pm at Laga. Admission: $8 in advance 
and $10 at the door.
Child of the Promise. 7:30 pm at the 
Mellon Arena. Tickets: $16, 26.75, or 34.25. 
Contact: www.ticketmaster.com or www.childofthepromise.com.
Garou game. 5 to 11 pm in Baker Hall 235 
and 237. Live-Action Role-Play of Garou (were
wolves) from White-WolPs Minds Eye Theater, 
Laws of the Wild. All are welcome. Contact: 
cam+@andrew.cmu.edu.
Saturday, 12/9
Mr. Fraternity. 7:30 pm in Rangos 
Ballroom, University Center. Tickets: $7 in 
advance from the UC Information Desk, $8 at 
the door. Benefits go to Central Ohio 
Breathing Associaion.
Marilyn Manson. 7:30 pm in Mellon 
Arena. Tickets: $31 by calling 323-1919.
Remember the Titans. 7:30,10 pm, and 
12:30 am in McConomy Auditorium, 
University Center. Admission: $1 with CMU 
ID and $3 without. Presented by SDC Films. 
Contact: 268-FLMS.
Ice Skating at Schenley Rink, a Society 
of Hispanic Professional Engineers event. 8 
pm at the rink. Admission: $2 with CMU ID. 
All are welcome.
Sunday, 12/10
Roman Catholic Mass. 10:30 am and 8 
pm in Mellon Auditorium, Posner Hall. Also 
takes place daily at 12:30 pm in the University 
Center chapel. Contact: Roman Catholic 
Newman Center, 681-3181.
Cartoon Surprise! 7 pm, 11:30 am in 
McConomy Auditorium, University Center. 
Admission: $1 with CMU ID and $3 without. 
Presented by AB Films. Contact: 268-FLMS.
Anti-Flag with Flogging Molly. 7 pm at
Club Laga, Oakland. Admission: $7.
The Jacob Fred Jazz Odyssey with 
Ordinary Way and Jhinx. 9 pm at The
Beehive, Oakland.
Do you have an event you would 
like to publicize in The Tartan 
Calendar? Its free!
Send it to
tartan@andrew. emu. edu.
ongoing
A Regina Gouger Miller Gallery 
Exhibit. From November 9 through 
December 15. On Floor 1, Digital 
Explorations a screening of the latest digital 
work by the Schools of Architecture and 
Design. On Floor 2, Works on Paper by fac
ulty from the Nagoya Zokei University of Art 
and Design and Nagoya Zokei Junior College, 
Japan. On Floor 3, Kindred Spirits, recent 
works by Marlene Aaron, Peggy Lynn Cox, 
Marilee Keys, and Anne Wolf. Admission: 
free. Contact: 268-3618.
Aluminum by Design: Jewelry to 
Jets. Through February 11 at the Carnegie 
Museum of Art, Oakland. Contact: 662-3212.
Gifts of Winter. Through February 28 at 
the Hunt Institute for Botanical 
Documentation, fifth floor, Hunt Library. 
Hours: 9 am to noon and 1 to 5 pm, Monday 
through Friday and Sunday 1 to 4 pm. 
Admission: free. Contact: 268-2434.
Undergraduate Art Shows at the 
Frame. Noon to 5 pm, December 6 through 
December 10 at the Frame Gallery.
Scream Machines. Current exhibit at 
the Carnegie Science Center, North Side. It 
features 11 multi-station, interactive exhibits 
that reveal the science behind roller coasters. 
Contact: 237-3400.
jKpng________________
Antigone, directed by Alison Stockman. 
8 pm on December 6 and 7 and 3:30 pm on 
December 8 in the Helen Wayne Rauh 
Theatre, Purnell Center for the Performing 
Arts. Admission is free.
Wit. December 4 through 10 at the 
OReilly Theater. A brilliant and brutally 
demanding professor battles ovarian cancer in 
this powerful, tour-de-force drama, winner of 
the 1999 Pulitzer Prize. Presented by the 
Pittsburgh Public Theater. Contact: 412-316- 
1600.
The Nutcracker. 7 pm on December 8 and 
9, and 2 pm on December 10 .at the Byham 
Theater, Downtown. Tickets: $7. Contact: 412- 
279-8887.
Duquesne Light ZooLights. From 5:30 to 
9:30 pm through January 1; gates close at 
8:30 pm. Journey through paths lined with a 
million colorful lights.
Enjoy more than 120 illuminated animal fig
ures. Pittsburghs only walk-through holiday 
light display awaits you this sparkling season. 
Admission: $4 for non-members and $3 for 
members.
Winter Flower Show: Gifts Under 
Glass. Through January 7 at Phipps 
Conservatory and Botanical Gardens.
* 1 /V Igentlemen...voxpopuii1 highly recommend
official voice of chicken heads
the soda this evening
I'm thinking about taking that new chick frcm logistics. If thirrp go
right I might be shaving her my O-face.You knew: Ch! Ch!
I did it all for the Nookieuc clocks suckdont break my bed
2 the boardI like fish, but I haven t
I will never forget this yearhad any in 17 hours .
muchas gracias (g) OTTO WA !
CFG make you drop it like its hot,can I have my eggs easy over?
drop drop it like its hot
Welcome to Yosemite Earls Weed and Mud Farm
-"IS SHE MOVING INTO THE ANNIE HOUSE?"sometimes its nice just to be sure of someone
5 3C2i t],ss\ Oss,mG3to the entertainment peqple_ ; thapks far everything.You know why I'm acting like this? ^ ^ ^
Because #2 is inpossible.have a great break, -g
f*** that f***ing bitch, up with grammar !
you wear too much eye makeup."oi! oi! oi!"
my sister wears too much eye makeup
and people think shes a whore.mac loves cheese,
mum my, he s gone rottencheese loves mac,
and thev love annies!Davey destroyed the punk scene
prettv bird, prettv bird
- How many hamburgers can you eat
- What, like in a contest? What's the prize?/ l,wn2mueL
cockVox Populi is a forum open to the entire campus community! To
PARTIES AT OUR HOUSE RULE 2submit a vox, simply email it to tdrtan@andrew.cmu.edu, send it
to the tartan:
to The Tartan, University Center, Box 17 via campus mail, or drop 
it in the Vox Populi drop box on the slick-looking Tartan server.
thank you for a wonderful run.Tne comments In this box do not reflect the viewsof The Tartan
you are some of the most dedicatedor anybody in general. It is basically a bunch of gibberish, and If
students on campus.anything sounds remotely real or interesting, then you're reading
-Ishway too much into it.

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

DOSSIER
Volume 20  Issue 8  December 4, 2000

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

The Writers
C Gerald Costanzo has taught at Carnegie Mellon for thirty-one years. 
He founded the University Press in 1975 and is the author of many 
books of poems including Car negi DA Iar LY,WriEe,WiK and 
MDODWN n,Tri DH RYIaSY hDWAYrN LDStrTeYWp With Jim 
Daniels he recently edited the anthology RErY,:eH /DrIYNw Car 
Mr.I hrHrYeI,DHp
<[ Margaret Cumming is a former Art Major, former Architecture stu
dent, now Mechanical Engineering Major from Chicago, II.
<[ Jim Daniels is the director of the Creative Writing Program and 
Professor of English. His most recent books include LtSr sriSi 
and No /rIip He also co-edited RErY,:eH /DrIYNw Car Mr.I 
hrHrYeI,DHp
<[ Adrienne M. Dybes is currently enamored with Reggie Dunlop. 
However, she would settle for a Polish sausage instead.
(I D. Feher is a senior at sef pursuing a po in English and pn in psy
chology along with a gender studies minor. Feher's work pulls from 
these main areas of her life, where her literary sensitivities lie with 
female psychology, surreal childhood memories and making lesbian 
monogamy a noble pursuit.
C John Hursh is a senior creative writing and philosophy major. He 
plans on adding a major in English next year. His current plans 
involve squeezing a few more dollars out of Carnegie Mellon to pro
long his entrance into the dreadful world of full-time employment 
that he has successfully avoided for 22 years. Mr. Hursh fanatically 
believes that this institution owes him one more year if nothing else. 
His proudest moment this semester was the night that he devoured 45 wings at Buffalo Blues.
<[ Cassandra Knight likes laughing and peanut butter. She is also the 
smartest girl in the world and if you tell her any different she'll break 
your leg. And she knows how much that sucks.
<[ Tyler Lewis is a Junior Creative Writing major who is so happy that 
he might be actually coaxing his muse home.
<[ Racer Melbourne was born in New Zealand, loves to eat smoked 
oysters, and will fall asleep on any form of mass transportation. She 
graduates this December... so wish her luck in the real world.
C Hey Joey. YEAH. Hey Joey. YEAH. Introduce yourself. NO WAY. 
Introduce yourself! OK, MY NAME IS JOEY [Tague]. Yeah! AND 
I AM PROUD. Yeah! THATS WHY I YELL. Yeah! SO VERY 
LOUD. RIGHT ON!
<[ Laura Martin drives a hot, black four-door 1998 Honda Civic. She 
likes her cars like she likes her coffee.
Readers: Meagan Ciesla, Alina Mason, Maya Mei-Tal, Mary Spotts, 
and Beth Wilion.

---------------------------------------------------

a
A stuffed bear-golden stripe
of fur about its middle,
soft as a mink coat and as precious,
appeared underneath my blankets.
Nightgown pushed up,
it tenderly rubbed my thigh.
The bear was a nighttime 
gift from my father.
I dreamed the old blue one
might feci replaced and sad,
but when I laid them together, they slept
peacefully.
My Italian doctor
adopted mesome exotic compound
in the Philippines where tourists
come to sleep with children.
We both stared at the wallwhile he rubbed my 
back and I let him creep 
his cold fingers over my skin, 
like the chill of a stethoscope, 
across my chests tender 
elevations.
a
A dress-formal'suit,"
chased me with his fist full of thorns,
long as forearms.
I hurried through the waist deep 
water of the cubicled office, 
shredded papers swirled and sank 
in the wake of my panicked attempt.
He pursued meslowly.
I, tried to kick himslowly,
never able
to connect my foot with his groin.

---------------------------------------------------

Dossier
Volume 20  Issue 8  December 4, 2000
LETTER FROM THE EDITORS
Joey says... Imagine three kids. Imagine one literary-design paper. 
Imagine the freedom to develop this paper into anything you 
wanted. To call it your own for an entire year. Imagine eight issues 
that you look over and feel so proud to have had a hand in pub
lishing something so stimulating, so beautiful. Now try to guess 
how much Ill miss it. Thanks go out to the people who supported 
us over the last year. To the fellow Tartaners, especially Ish and 
Seth, for the respect you gave and the creative control you allowed 
us to have. To the faculty (particularlyjim Daniels and Gerald 
Costanzo, each who provided poems for this issue) who helped us 
spread the word about submitting work. Most importandy, thanks 
to the students who sent writing in and read over submissions. 
The dedication of our peers is what held Dossier together. My 
one request is that the students at Carnegie Mellon continue to 
inspire, so that Dossier may remain a vital and eclectic communal 
voice for writers and designers alike. Of course, to Laura and 
Mike...you two are amazing co-workers and friends, Dossier was 
incredible in so many respects because of you both.
Laura says... Another month, another issue of Dossier. But not just 
any issue. This is the last issue that I will get the chance to create 
with two of the coolest people I have ever known. Without a 
doubt, it is going to be hard to leave. I want to first thank the 
Tartan and all of staff, especially Ish and Seth, for their continued 
support throughout the semester. Thanks go out to all of those 
talented people who submitted (students and faculty alike), those 
who read for us during our year with Dossier, and those who read 
Dossier. Without you, this year would not have been possible. 
Last, but certainly not least, I wanted to thank my friends, Mike 
and Joey. Dossier would never have been what it is without you 
two: not just simple flirtations with greatness, but constant 
embraces with genius. You two are amazing.
Mike says... Thanks to all the designers who have lent their time 
and skill this year. Thanks also to Ish and Seth for giving us room 
to experiment, and to the writers for being so supportive of what's 
been produced. Joey and Laura, thanks for being extremely 
efficient, thorough and cool.
Contents
i. drW yTetcrt,iI -ty Laura Martin
op mY,T,Hc -6y- JoeyTague
4. A hYeTrNeYW ID nrI lBeYIrY m,:biDHf 
-6y Gerald Costanzo
kp uIYDOr n,caIK LeirErHI 
Sy' Jim Daniels
6. A Layman's Guide to Recollection 
Anonymous
7. F,HNt J,WrePeN z6y- Tyler lewis
8. Europa -6y Margaret Cumming
vGp y.:aeHcr -$y Adrienne M. Dybes
11. Ciu] -iy John Hursh
vjp VeY,tNH ,H deci -6y Cassandra Knight
13. Orienteering -6y D. Feher
14. Dream Triptych -fy Racer Melbourne
Pages 6, 8, & 9 designed by Chris Messina; 
pages 10 6* 11 by Chris Rugen; page 7 by Jim Kenney; 
page 14 by Greta Polo; page 12 by Justin Suissa; 
other pages, cover by Mike Zimmer. Cover illustration 
by Mark Adato.

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

She was a map.
Tracing fingers down tickling tracks, 
enforcing creases along 
a range of intimate empires, 
channels and deltas of soft, rich earth.
She wove her smooth hair around a finger,
securing a hold on her thoughts;
in contraposto extravagance,
she marinated in the sunlight
carving out acoustic angels
fingers speaking frankly
pulling the shade of the late afternoon
slowly to her thighs
to the low deep bass of the cello.
She had a way of hiding in the spotlight 
making silence into music 
without the ears to discern the pattern; 
believing there will be another note 
to calm the currents below.
In that moment, she was God.
fy T>. Jeher

---------------------------------------------------

Marilyn in Rag,
It was a simple plan.
Pick up the pieces, rearrange. 
A snip here, a cut theredie new object of desire, 
nj Force the old Queen, emaciated from the effort,
down as our object of fascination.
^ The hardest part was wiping away the layers of me.
First the middle, then the arms, then the breasts,C/0oj finally, the most difficult, the lower extremities.
U Just enough for die crown.
It was a simple situation.
Either a glamour queen and her jewels,
with martini in hand,
or a hopeful and my leviathana match made in heaven
misses the cut,
and I am left without my thicker half.
It was a simple miracle.
As easy as Nazareth climbing down from his tree, 
I took her place 
and let it be.
K.-Q

---------------------------------------------------

Another afternoon of rowing behind me. With each step out of 
the boathouse, I winced in pain. The day's workout was tough; 
our first race was only three weeks away. Most of the other girls 
hobbled alongside of me. We didn't get to far-we stopped about 
ten feet away from the boathouse to rest our weary legs and bitch 
about practice. At least the water was good, all eight agreed. The 
lake was calm and smooth, and we watched as the novice boat 
raced by. Our coach was in next to them in the launch, barking 
orders through his megaphone. His orders could be heard loud 
and clear even with his back towards us. We watched as raindrops 
began to puncture the lake, like bullets shattering a glass mirror 
in slow motion. We ran to the pavilion. The boys attempted to 
dodge us, but I flew into Jason. He lifted his arms in defense right 
before, but I toppled him over anyway. I quickly jumped away as 
he counterattacked with a deadly tickle. Before I could fight 
back we saw Mr. Lewis waving to us from the parking lot a 
hundred yards from the pavilion. Jason slung his backpack over 
his shoulder and said, "You ready to go?" I looked outside at the 
rain and was glad that I wasn't driving that night.
"Sweet ride, Mr. Lewis," Cory said as we threw ourselves into 
his blue 1982 Toyota Camry, just driven off the used car lot, we 
later learned. The non-leather interior soaked the water from our 
wet clothes. Mr. Lewis smiled and asked, "Good practice, guys?" 
That got the ball rolling pretty quickly, and we spent most of the 
trip talking about the upcoming race and whom we were going to 
compete against. Jason was to my left and Cory to my right, and 
Ben was sitting shotgun. So I had the bitch seat. I tried to look 
for the seatbelt, but it seemed that there wasn't one for the middle 
back seat. The more we talked, the more excited we were about 
the race. I could just imagine it: a sunny day, calm waters, a flight 
of boats sitting at the starting line waiting for the start command 
from the official. I would look to my left and right at our com
petition, see their bodies tense and ready, their blades correctly 
positioned in the water. A few more seconds and we would be 
flying through the water. Our yells and laughter drowned out 
the sound of the rain outside that was banging on the windows 
and trying to get in.
We stopped at a red light and the discussion dwindled. I 
remember looking outside onto the street at the gas station on 
the corner that always had a blue Cadillac parked outside. Then 
my body lunged forward. I believed for a second that Mr. Lewis 
had just slammed on the brakes really hard. I thought nothing 
of it until I could only see red from my left eye. Instantly I knew 
what had happened. The doors flew open and the car was flooded 
with the sound of hard rain.
Tmbleedingimbleedingimbleedingimbleeding,'' I cried to 
Jason, who half carried me out of the car. I hadn't noticed when 
we were driving how bad the rain had gotten. I covered my head 
and he walked me to the side of the road. I turned to glance at 
Mr. Lewis' car. Actually, most of his car was fine, really, the only 
part that was really damaged was the trunk. It was completely 
smashed into the rest of the car. It reminded me of a compressed 
accordion. Behind it was a red Ford Bronco, turned almost per
pendicular to the blue Toyota. Winding tire tracks on the road 
showed the path of the Bronco right after the collision. Unlike the 
Camry, it had suffered only minor damages.
I lay down on the wet grass. I was freezing; we usually wore 
only bike shorts and tank tops for practice. Jason took off his 
shirt and covered my head with it. People slowly began crowding 
around, some holding their umbrellas over me. Someone came 
and covered me in a blanket. I heard Mr. Lewis call 911. It was 
kind of weird, seeing all of these people above me, heads in a 
circle, watching me, looking at me as if I were going to die or my 
head was going to spin or something. Jason sat by me and jokingly 
said that this was the best way to get out of practice for the week.
Minutes passed as we waited for the ambulance. As I lay there, 
thankful for the umbrellas overhead, an older woman sat down 
next to me. I didnt realize she was there until she softly took hold
of my left hand and began to pray for my life. She prayed to Jesus 
for my safety, that my cuts and bruises would heal, that my life 
would not be in danger. She stroked my arm and repeatedly asked 
Jesus to save me.
I was taken aback. So much affection, so much concern, so 
much from a total stranger. Who was she? Where did she come 
from? Why was she here? I didn't care. I was happy that she was 
there with me. I instandy felt better. I knew I was going to be fine 
because she was praying for me. I began to pray to Jesus too, and 
we remained there, whispering under yellow and orange umbrel
las, until the ambulance came.
The ambulance came about ten minutes later and the para
medics placed me on a stretcher. They fixed a neck brace, buckled 
me on the stretcher, and moved me to the ambulance. When we 
arrived at the hospital, my mother and sister were there. They 
leaned over the stretcher as the paramedics pulled me out of the 
ambulance and carried me inside. My sister was crying and my 
mom looked shaken up. I almost lost it then. I stretched out my 
arm to wave goodbye before I was whisked away into the emer
gency room.
"Joanne, thank you so much for staying with me," I told my sis
ter the following afternoon. She has stayed with me for the entire 
day while I fell in and out of sleep, missing one of her final exams.
"Did you really think I was going to leave?"
I smiled at her. She moved her chair closer to the bed.
"Hey, will you pass me that glass of water? They wouldnt let me 
have any at all yesterday."
"Sure. Mom told me you were kind of scared.
"I think the part that scared me the most was when they cut off 
my clothes."
"You mean so they didnt have to move you?
"Yeah. And those were my favorite pair of crew shorts, too."
She smiled. "So how does your head feel?"
"Not too bad. It was really weird when they were putting in the 
stitches because I could feel everything that was going on but it 
didn't hurt. I guess I must have been hit by some flying glass or 
something when the back window shattered."
How deep was the cut?"
"Well, they had to put in like three layers of stitches. Did you 
know that they make stitches that dissolve?"
"Really?"
"I know, cool, huh? Oh, and Joanne, I have to tell you! When I 
was laying on the grass this woman came over to me and took my 
hand and then she started praying to Jesus and I was like, who is 
this woman, but she was so amazing and she made me feel so 
much better and I..."
"Wait, what did this lady look like?"
"Well, she had short black hair, wearing a red dress I think ..."
"A red dress?" My sister looked worried. I asked what was the 
matter and she told me that the lady that seemed to be a guardian 
angel of some sorts was actually the woman who hit the Toyota. 
She had just recently gotten out of jail and was driving the unreg
istered, untagged, uninsured red Bronco.
I didn't say anything for a while.
"I'm sorry, Laura."
Kind of like T.V. evangelists that convince you to praise the 
Lord while you empty your wallets, this woman had me focused 
on my condition than wondering who was it that hit the car. 
Thinking about it now, I never even gave the other driver a second 
thought until the next day. Perhaps praying for my safety was real
ly praying for hers. But without her, I wouldn't have been as calm 
as I was. It was hard figuring out if she was a devil in a red dress 
or a blessing in disguise. I spent the rest of the day deciding that 
for myself before the doctors took the IVs out of my hands, the 
neck brace off of my neck, and discharged me. Luckily, I never saw 
her again.

---------------------------------------------------

&&a

---------------------------------------------------

Work
By John Hursh
Jirst day of work in the windshield factory -
Sweat pours out of bodies and drips off of hair and shirttails 
onto the concrete floor. Clothes are soaked with rings of foul 
smelling perspiration. It is over 125 degrees in the bending 
department. Talk is sparse, motion is a last resort, and energy is 
desperately conserved. Twelve hours is a long time.
"Bending is the hottest area of production in this whole goddamn 
factory. And we're the only goddamn group that knows a fucking 
thing about making a windshield. Those sons-of-bitches in the 
white room sit on their asses all goddamn day. And it's the same 
with those fuckers on vinyl line. Only those bastards are in a 
fucking air-conditioned room all day. Air-conditioning all day 
while I stand here and sweat my goddamn balls off. And those 
goddamn Mexicans in packaging can't speak a word of fucking 
English, let alone read a fucking order. And that goddamn Glen 
thinks he knows every fucking thing in the world about wind
shields. Shit. He's only been here three months longer than I 
have. Fuck him. And did you see the tits on that summer girl 
Jessica? Holy shit those are nice."
I can't respond to any of this, because the glass keeps coming. 
One future windshield every thirty-seven seconds. Every thirtyseven seconds I pick up two pieces of glass with my partner and 
place them in a furnace, a furnace hot enough to fuse the two 
pieces of glass together. Every thirty-seven seconds we outline 
the metal stand for the glass with chalk. Every thirty-seven sec
onds we hold the glass up to a special light checking for the 
smallest faults; faults which I never see even if they are there. 
Every thirty-seven seconds I try to stand under the cool air vent 
for at least five seconds.
"Goddamn these fall-ins. Get on the intercom and tell Eric that 
number twenty-seven was a goddamn fall-in."
My partner and I step into the furnace and tear burning hot, 
cracked glass out of the furnace, placing it in heaps along the side 
of the loading area. The black soles of my newly purchased work 
boots begin to smoke. I curse as the heat of the glass passes 
through my Kevlar gloves and stings my hand.
"You dumb ass. You have to switch your gloves every four hours in 
the summer. Otherwise they get hot and then your hands sweat. 
Then your gloves are wet. Dont you know that liquids conduct 
heat better than solids? Youll burn your fucking hands trying to 
clean out a fall-in."
And on it goes for two hours. Or ideally 194 windshields, before 
I walk down ninety feet to where the windshields leave the fur
nace that I have loaded them into. Here I stand for two more 
hours unloading windshields. And finally twelve hours have gone 
by and it is morning. It is seven am and I pick up my cooler 
from the cafeteria and have to wait for my mom to pick me up 
because my brother got too drunk to drive my car home in time 
for me to drive myself to work last night. She asks me how work 
was and isn't twelve hours a long time? I lie to her and tell her 
no, and dream of a big breakfast after a cold shower and an even 
colder beer as I nod off on the drive home.

---------------------------------------------------

Exchange
She threw apples at him in the waxing morning.
The sun was full before he noticed
they were covering the broken pavement around him
smashed, rotted, stenching
blank pulp, now brown with ferment,
seeds, scattered black speckles in the mud.
He fell to the ground, held the apples in his clumsy
white fingers. The fruit decayed in his hands,
liquefied over his palms, left his fingerprints fusing together.
"Why do you always have to take everything? 
she asked him, her voice decomposed and broken.
"Why do you give? he answered, 
apples dripping from his bony hands.
By Adrienne M. Dybes

---------------------------------------------------

Driving
Rollin, wheelin', cruising. Riding along with the want of motion. 
To move out of here, on four wheels, enclosed in a steel frame and 
comfortable on leather seats with small holes in them, to show 
how we have worn them. The want of tires rubbing out a song on 
the pavement, like the needle on a phonograph transcribing a 
favorite tune. We pass people the way we would scan a phone 
book as we travel from city to country to city without maps, only 
the desire for a journey, no thoughts on any one destination.
Four seats filled, the backseat middle housing classic rock CDs 
and a deck of cards, secured with a seat buckle around them. 
Sometimes the leftover imprint of a hitchhiker or crumbs from 
french fries purchased at a fast food joint resides in the spot. 
America. Adventure. We take turns driving, switching about the 
car like tourists visiting a new place for the first time. Winding 
through communities, some could be called villages even, finding 
ourselves intrigued more by the ghostless ghost towns than the 
bright lights of a big name city. Instead we speed through the 
metropolises so fast the neon lights stretch out like illuminated 
streamers.
In the car, the men and women, us. We all take turns smooth
ing the steering wheel with sweaty palms, treating the circular 
device like a lover. Feeling every inch of the wheel, tracing finger 
paths along the stitching on the backside, reading it like Braille, 
trusting all the time. That we are living. That we are moving.
The ride is a way to forget, as if the miles and miles of highway 
before us will extend into the sunrise, into a kind of forever that 
we can never stop at because we keep moving forward. A chance 
to dream without waking or treading over the same mistakes. The 
wheels roll over new roads, taking us from our stoic one-bedroom 
flats in highrises to simple motel rooms just off the highways, 
where we sleep only when night falls. Making love sometimes, we 
touch skin romantically illuminated by the moonlight that streams 
in through a small crack in the polyester curtains. As soon as the 
sun is up, we leave shadows of sex and sleep in the tousled sheets.
We treasure things along the road that have lived in one place 
for a long time. Rocks, pine cones and the sort. We pick them up 
and bring them along, sometimes setting them up on the dash
board so they can watch the country go by. We take these objects 
and seek the beauty of a different setting. The collection grows 
large after the first few weeks and we begin to leave some of the 
rocks and pine cones in various places we stop at for gas or a bite 
to eat. Sometimes hundreds of miles from where we first picked 
them up.
Sitting in the car again, I think of when we left for this drive 
and not how I felt about that place or the people I knew, but how 
I was falling in love with the car. After I quit my job, after the four 
of us decided to drive away from restaurant reservations and three 
piece suits and small toy dogs (preemptive children), I remember 
going to the used car dealership and choosing which vehicle would 
fit us best. The paint colors, the feeling of the seat fabrics, even the 
reflecting windshields turned me on. I was getting an erection just 
thinking about sitting in the driver's seat and taking off. I packed a 
small suitcase and bought a rabbit's foot key ring. For luck. The 
night before we left on our drive, I dreamt of myself standing in 
the middle of a stretch of highway and squinting up at the blazing 
sun, mesmerized by the clouds interchanging above me.
I enjoy the feel of the backseat on a cold day, when I toss a 
blanket over my legs to warm them but keep the window rolled 
down because I need the fresh air to permeate my lungs. I want to 
breathe the journey.
We dot the country like stars scattered but still manage to cre
ate some oddly formed constellation. We spread ourselves across 
map lines, always with the need to push onwards. Living at the 
hand of the fuel gauge, sometimes we drive all through the night. 
We seek out roads with no streetlights, ones with no oncoming 
headlamps to obstruct our view of night. Just the faint glow of a 
cigarette held tight between the fingers of a passenger so as not to 
let it fly out of the window, which is open just a crack, to allow the 
smoke to filter out into the darkness, vanishing. We sit quiet and 
still, listening to what the road has to say. The tires respond 
accordingly, creating an intricate dialogue between them, and the 
motor hums in the background, crooning the way a jazz singer 
would, remarking on the romantic blackness of night as she fell 
into a lovers arms. We drive on.
by Joey Tague

---------------------------------------------------

A Graveyard to Let (Carter Dickson)
By Gerald CostanzoThe bright lights affected Carlene.'The estate
of the enthralled is a lay too winsome to eschew./ 
she opined, cavorting along the Great White Way.
She bore her fulsome Una Merkel perkiness straight 
to the stage, albeit a minor role in an antique tome few 
could recall-replete with hope, anger, deccit, and dismay.
Not without reason did the late 
and great O. Henry refer to New 
York as Bagdad-on-the-Subway.
Poem taken from the chapbook Great Disguise by Gerald Costanzo.
Costanzo writes: I wrote these poems a* experiments with regard to my interest in (though not necessarily love of) rhyme, and as a result of my passion for reading mystery novels and thrillers. Poem titles come from the title of the particular novel; its author is attributed in parentheses. My method has been to appropriate the first sentences and to break them into stanzas, thereby arriving at the rhymes. Sometimes the poems theme and characters are taken from the novel, and sometimes from some world of their own.
agflaamiMiM

---------------------------------------------------

/j My dad once cold me about an early episode of
* "You Bet Your Life that was recorded when it 
was still a radio show. Groucho Marx was talk
ing to a lady named Mrs. Smith on the show.
He asked, "How many children do you have, 
Mrs. Smith?
"I have thirteen children," she replied.
"Thirteen children!" exclaimed Marx. "My good
ness, that must be quite a burden!"
"Well," said Mrs. Smith,"my husband and I love 
each other very much."
Groucho Marx said, "Lady, I love my cigar too 
but I take it out of my mouth once in a while."
Although this is reportedly one of the funniest 
lines ever delivered by Marx, the censors felt it 
was too crass to allow on the air. In response, 
Marx made his famous quote, "Sometimes a 
cigar is just a cigar." According to most biogra
phers, this particular story is a myth, but when 
my dad told it to me I believed every word. 
Lately I take his stories with a grain of salt, I 
guess that's one of the drawbacks of adulthood.
My boss this summer kept a Barbie on his desk 
with a paper speech balloon taped to it. The bal
loon read,"Your so BUFF!". It really bothered 
me that it said "Your instead of "You're, I guess 
because I'm pedantic like my dad. I decided later 
that it should be "Your after all, because Barbie 
is dumb. I felt much better after that.
^ My half-sister, the daughter of my dad and his
* first wife, recently broke up with a guy she was  
dating. When she told my dad about it he 
sighed and said, "Men are pigs.
'y Dad has always had a keen interest in Oriental
* rugs. Two ways you can tell a good quality rug 
is 1) the knots are very small as to allow for 
greater detail. The dark irony is that the best 
rugs are ones that have been woven by children 
because their hands are small enough to make 
small knots. 2) the pattern of the rug is perfect 
except for a few small, strategically placed imper
fections. This is because the people who made 
the rug believe that only Allah can be perfect. 
Dad likes that part.
^ I have a wooden three-legged bull that I recently 
snuck from home. It has a piece of paper taped 
to it that reads, "Pig". I've been asked why I put 
the note there and I say that it is in reference to 
a joke my dad once told me about a three-legged 
pig. I won't tell the joke, but the punch line is, 
'You can't eat a great pig like that all at once." 
My one friend said, "Euw, your DAD told you 
that joke? That's pretty fucked up." Lately I've 
stopped telling people about the joke, instead I 
say, "Why does it have to mean something? 
Sometimes a cigar is just a cigar."
That's a lie, it does mean something, but there's 
no reason people need to know that.

---------------------------------------------------

EUROPA
-Margaret (lumming
1 Europa, for whom the continent of Europe is
* named, was according to myth the youngest 
daughter of King Agenor of Tyr. One day Zeus 
saw her bathing by the sea from atop Olympus 
and disguised himself as a bull. When he 
approached Europa she was frightened. As he 
drew nearer she saw that the bull was as white 
as snow, with fur as soft to the touch as spun 
silk. Her fear left her and she mounted the mas
sive bull. Zeus took her over the ocean to the 
island of Crete where he ravished her until his 
wife Hera, the goddess of motherhood, found 
out and forced Zeus to abandon Europa. Europa 
lived there the rest of her life and became the 
first Queen of Crete.
O When I was a small child, my dad kept a toy 
+ wooden bull on his bureau. One of its legs had 
broken off but it didn't matter to me. The bull 
stood proudly with its snout up in the air.
When my parents weren't around I would sneak 
into their room and take the bull. I owned two 
Barbies, lots of Barbie clothes, and one red 
Barbie Ferrari. The wooden bull was just the 
right size for one of the Barbies to ride around 
on. Sometimes my Barbies would meet up to go 
shopping and one would arrive in the car while 
the other would arrive riding the stately bull. I 
remember thinking that a horse or pony would 
be more appropriate, but I grew fond of the bull 
nevertheless. One day, when I left the Barbies on 
the floor of my room, our puppy chewed them 
to bits.
Q A few months ago my mom and I were driving
* around Chicago, my home town. My dad had 
left over a year ago but he left most of his stuff 
behind. We were discussing which stuff we were 
going to send him and which stuff he didn't 
want. While we were talking about it, I men
tioned that I would like to have the small wood
en bull that stood on Dad's bureau. If Dad real
ly cared about it, I told her, he would have taken 
it with him.
You can't have that, it has sentimental value for 
your father," said Mom.
"How do you know? I asked.
"Well, you see, when he lost his virginity, his girl
friend at the time gave him that bull as a symbol 
of his virility, that's why he has always kept it in 
our bedroom."
Eeeuuuuww! Why did she tell me that! Did she 
want me to be disgusted with him? Oh well.
"Mom, why does the bull have three legs?"
"I think the leg broke off in a move."
So it had four legs when it was given?"
"Yes, I believe so.
"Wouldn't it be funny if she gave him a crippled 
three-legged bull as an insult?"
"I don't know."
At this point I felt the atmosphere in the car was 
not as comfortable as I'd like, so I changed the 
subject. I was a little disgusted afterward but 
what I really feel bad about is how violated my 
Barbies must have felt before they met their 
grizzly end. Perhaps they would have gouged 
their eyes out as in Greek tragedy if they'd had 
the necessary motor skills to do so.

---------------------------------------------------

Strobe Light, Basement
by Jim Danielsflash flash
jisif asf}
ah rmm
p ,"fr thxstj
ffa
atf) jufsix
ffas/7 lash
ffasb jiash
jiasfi flash
jaJj flash
j'zsn fask
jfasb faifs
nh flixsf).
mutcefing love for the first time 
ffasb
without irony 
flasl)
the dropped machinery 
flash
of an extended guitar solo
flash _
and she is there 
flash
and not there
flash
there
flash
not there
flesh
why did you kiss him?
you ask
flash
but she is drunk, laughing 
flash
your plastic catalogue strobe 
flash
w.liicking against the sudden silenc 
flash
everybody waiting 
flash
all you can change 
flash
is the record.

---------------------------------------------------

A LAYMAN'S GUIDE TO RECOLLECTION
ANONYMOUS
The music of Americas decay on the stereo,
staring at the same ceiling we've stared at since we were born,
I sit here with these paste and paper mache memories
made out of glances from the creeping,
organic crowd swarming to cities like ants,
twittering nausea burning in my stomach.
We've been trying to remember the dates
and times of deaths;
from that first exit from the light
to the grinding clock hands that now mark a rebirth.
The memories we borrow from passersby 
feel like our own, drawn from this inanimate sea 
where lives meet and diverge, the errant 
tales that flap in the wind riveted to the rest, 
these are twisted metal and synthetic, but ours.
Even when grand father's father bought this land 
from the Indians, it wasn't ours;
We inherited a world infused with memories that, 
like the rest, can't make sense.
The themes of days I never saw 
tower like crystal balls with steel girdings 
holding them together in a forgetful 
spiders web of marionette strings,
their mute clairvoyance serving as nothing but invitation 
to recount a story, any story, and fill in these blanks 
with the names and places that are appropriate, 
signing"Xwhere Im told it's needed,
And retell the story of how the West was won.

---------------------------------------------------

z,s\k R,hmITI\
by Tyler Lewis
I used to go to this dive on Canal.
Had this need to be around old vinyl 
sounds, struggle of years passed poured 
out of this litde corner joint. It lived there.
The smell of stale smoky air and Phillies 
inflamed my nostrils, the only displeasure.
Teddy Pendergrass would fuse the souls of 
real heads with tears of joy and pain.
Sarah Vaughns ragged wail would ripple 
from the small speakers on the player as 
customers filtered into the two narrow aisles 
of musics forgotten medium.
The walls plastered with old Billboard lists, 
and old 45 liner notes,
Id inhabit.
the aged, torn headphones, completely covering 
my ears and I welcomed the Innervisions 
and released my own Soul Rebel. Letting them infect 
my new middle class soul. I spent afternoons, eyes 
closed, swaying letting my music remind me 
what music can do. The Gen Y-ers 
made faces at my bobbing head in the listening 
booth, especially after their rhythmless use yielded 
headshakes from the 40-something brotha behind 
the counter.
I never purchased anything,
the place had a balance that my consumption
would ruin. The vinyl belonged in the yellow faded
slip covers and wooden racks stained
with the tears of age.
