TUESDAY
WEDNESDAY
THURSDAY
Carnegie Mellons Student Newspaper Since igo6THE TARTAN
Volume 95, Issue 8tartan@andrew.cmu.edu30 October 2000
CANDIDATES VISIT PITTSBURGH
Gore speaks at rally on CMU Mall Bush makes Oakland appearance
Biyan Kaplan/Photo Editor
Vice President and Democratic Presidential candidate Al 
Gore, along with several other Pennsylvanian dmocrat
ies held a rally on the CMU Mall last Friday.
by Aseem Gupta
Online Editor 
& Brad Grantz
Business Editor
Al Gore stormed onto Hamerschlag Mall, much like 
the weather, shaking hands along the rope line last 
Friday afternoon while thousands of his supporters 
cheered him on. Speaking to a crowd that was primarily 
composed of students and union members (educators 
and laborers), Gore made an effort to concentrate on 
issues of education programs and financing.
Gore was introduced by a slew of Pennsylvania 
Democrats, including US Senate candidate Ron Klink, 
City of Pittsburgh Mayor Tom Murphy, Pennsylvanias 
14th district US Congressman, which includes CMU, 
Bill.Coyne, several city councilmen as well as Carnegie 
Mellon Student Body President Erin Fitzgerald, and 
Activities Board Political Chair Tanya Tarr.
Gore spoke to a crowd that the Secret Service approx
imated to be around 15,000. While the vast majority of 
the audience were Democratic party supporters, there 
were some dissenters present in the crowd. Green 
party supporters passed out flyers and urged attendees 
to vote for Ralph Nader. Protesters in the crowd held 
signs telling Gore to Keep your promise on closing 
down Waste Technologies Inc., in East Liverpool, Ohio, 
a pledge Gore made in 1992. An Environmental 
Protection Agency letter from a national government 
investigator released on October 23 stated that the 
plant should be shut down immediately.
In his speech Gore pleaded with the audience to con
sider the current state of Americas economy. Gore told 
See GORE, page A3
by Jennifer Resick
Staffwriter 
& Julia Myers
Junior Staffwriter
Just before 11 am, with a little more than thirty min
utes to go before the anticipated arrival of Republican 
presidential candidate and Texas Governor George W.
Bush at Soldiers and Sailors Memorial, a pianist filtered 
the air with jazz rendition of God Bless America.
Soon an eager crowd of enthusiastic supporters wear
ing Bush/Cheney cowboy hats and vests began clap
ping their hands and chanting for Bush.
Bush arrived at 12:15 pm with Pennsylvania 
Governor Tom Ridge and retired General Colin 
Powell, and the spectators responded to their long 
awaited arrival by rising to their feet as they did sev
eral times throughout the Bushs address.
Ridge spoke-first discussing the importance of the 
nature of campaign tactics stating that the character 
of his campaign says a lot about Bushs integrity. I 
ask you to join me in the next several days in making 
Pennsylvania Bush/Cheney Country, he said. He con
cluded by praising the bravery of medal-of-honor 
recipients and introduced Powell.
 I cant think of a more appropriate place than here at 
Soldiers and Sailors Memorial for Bush to speak on the 
theme of his campaign Responsible Leadership said 
Powell. Powell also said that Bush understands his first 
responsibility is as Commander-in-Chief of the Armed 
Forces and that Bush will be a leader of the world, reach
ing out to spread democracy. According to Powell, Bush peter wang/Photo staff
will make the better leader because he is open to innova- George W. Bush spoke about responsible leadership at 
See BUSH, page A3 Soldiers and Sailors last Thursday.
Students react to recent political speakers University prepares for Gore rally
by Emily Landes
Senior Staffwriter
Moments before Vice-President 
Al Gore stepped onto the podium at 
his political rally last Friday, 
Pittsburgh council member Sala 
Udin .told the audience that, The 
heart-beat of America is diversity, 
fairness and equality/ Udin went 
on to indicate that these character
istics were important to Democrats, 
in general, and the Vice President 
in particular. While the largely 
Gore supportive audience erupted 
in cheers at these remarks, some 
say that their experiences voicing 
alternate perspectives bring Udins 
claim into question.
Last Friday at noon, Post 
Doctoral Researchers John 
Neumann and George Lopez hung 
signs supporting Green Party can
didate Ralph Nader out of their 
shared office in Hamerschlag Hall. 
Lopez claims that the signs were 
taken down with a crane by around 
2:30 pm that same day. According 
to Lopez, We placed these signs up 
after we saw the Gore/Lieberman 
signs plastered over Wean and 
Hamerschlag. Since the University 
allowed Gores campaign to post 
political banners on campus build
ings, we decided that we had just as 
much right. We did not feel the 
Gore/Lieberman: Its your choice 
banner on Hamerschlag reflected 
the views of all of its occupants.
Lopez also claims that he has been 
given no explanation or informa
tion about the removal of the signs.
David Liber, a senior in Ethics, 
History and Public Policy, claims 
that he also received little explana
tion last Tuesday, when he was 
approached by Secret Service 
Agent Jeffrey James before a class 
and escorted to the CMU Police 
Station for questioning. Although 
Agent James did not immediately 
tell Liber why he was being ques
tioned, Liber assumed that it was a 
response to an email that Liber, the 
Student Body Treasurer, had sent 
See REACTION, page A3
ELECTIONS 2000 ONLINE COVERAGE elections.thetartan.org
by Seth Mandel
Managing Editor
Last Friday, CMU was visited by 
the local and national media, the 
United States Secret Service, and a 
crowd of about ten thousand, 
according to Don Hale, vice presi
dent for University Relations. 
These individuals congregated on 
the Mall for a Democratic rally, 
which featured Vice President and 
Democratic Presidential candidate 
Al Gore. According to organizers, 
a great deal of planning and coor
dination went into making the 
event happen the way the 
University and Gores team want
ed it done.
The event was confirmed the 
evening of October 22, said Hale. 
From that point, many individuals 
started working to coordinate the 
event. It was sponsored by AB 
Political Speakers, which is 
chaired by Tanya Tarr, a senior and 
first-year accelerated Heinz mas
ters student studying political sci
ence and history and policy.
Tarr said that she was involved 
in the events planning since the 
Gore advance team decided on the 
location. She said the role of AB 
Political Speakers was to act as a 
student liason, by publicizing the 
event, distributing and managing 
tickets, and gathering the names
of the CMU technical team as well 
as press and media. She said they 
were also responsible for coordi
nating the efforts of the 105 stu
dent volunteers who stepped up to 
help out. Additionally, 25 people 
from the regional Gore/Lieberman 
campaign helped out, said Tarr.
Student volunteers were gener
ous with their time and energy - 
helping distribute tickets, putting 
up posters for the event, helping 
spread the word about the event. 
They were most crucial during the 
event on Friday  when they 
helped set things up as well as 
guide rally participants, said Tarr.
She said that 6,000 tickets were 
See PLANNING, page A4
Students sign petition to 
prevent Intel agreement
Plus/Minus grading system debate continues on campus
by Ish Harshawat
Editor-in-Chief
A decision has not been reached 
yet on whether Intel will move 
into the basement of the 
University Center. In the past two 
weeks students and members of 
the administration have met to 
discuss the issues involved in the 
move. Meanwhile, over 500 stu
dents have signed a petition to 
Keep Intel out of the UC.
The administration has spent 
the last two weeks taking to stu
dents. In addition to previous 
meetings with Student Senate 
and the Graduate Student
Assembly, the Student Advisory 
Headquarters (SAHQ) sponsored 
an open forum Wednesday, 
October 18th.
The attendance was pretty 
good. There were 40 or 50 people 
there. It couldve been a lot bet
ter, said Paul Jacobs, a fifth-year 
business administration major 
who helped organize the SAHQ 
forum. Michael Murphy, Dean of
Stuent Affairs and Jeff Bolton, 
vice president for Business and 
Planning were in attendance to 
field questions from students.
Murphy and Bolton said that 
there should be no problems hav
ing Intel cooperate on specific 
concerns such as parking for Intel 
employees and signage of the cen
ter if an agreement is reached. 
The administration has released a 
frequently asked questions (FAQ) 
sheet about the Intel deal that 
addresses these concerns and oth
ers: Erin Fitzgerald, an electrical 
and computer engineering major 
and student body president also 
raised the idea of having some 
type of liaison between Intel and 
the student body to make sure 
concerns are addressed, and there 
is a way for students to give input 
on the solution center should it be 
housed in the solution center.
Murphy and Bolton said that 
one issue that they must look into 
is whether or not they should ask 
Intel about renovating some 
amount of extra space besides the 
See INTEL, page A5
by Erin Szeto
Staffwriter
A topic of much debate over the past few 
years, the University^ decision on whether to 
convert to a plus/minus grading system for 
undergraduate students is yet to be determined. 
Were still in the process of collecting feedback 
from the faculty. We just sent out a question
naire to all of the [academic] departments ask
ing them what they think of a new grading sys
tem. Once we receive their responses, [the 
University Education Council] will meet and see 
where to go from there, said Indira Nair, the 
Vice Provost for Education.
Nair said she believes that the majority of the
faculty is highly in favor of a conversion to  
plus/minus grading system. It will allow teach
ers to provide much more accurate feedback for 
the students. I dont really see any disadvan
tages to the system. 1 think grades wot^ld go up, 
if they move at all. A lot of other universities use 
the system. Carnegie Mellon compares itself to a 
certain board of ten colleges [including MIT, 
Stanford, Princeton, Harvard, Northwestern, 
University of Pennsylvania and University of 
Chicago], and only one, [Rensselaer Polytechnic 
University], is not currently using the 
plus/minus grading system, she said.
Nair also believes that many students are also 
in favor of a change. Student Senate ran a sur-' 
vey last year that claimed that 75 percent of all 
students were against the change. However,
they only asked a total of 156 students out of the 
5000 that go here. They only surveyed 10 stu
dents from H&SS, nine from the School of 
Industrial Administration; it wasnt representa
tive or unbiased at all. But I think that the gen
eral population of students really do want to 
change. They want more accurate feedback, and 
they would be able to tell what the professor 
really thought of their work, said Nair.
Adam Harber, the chair of the Student Senate 
Academic Affairs Committee and a sophomore 
business administration major, said he disagrees. 
From student surveys and hearing from the stu
dent body specifically, its my impression that the 
majority of the students are against it. However, 
the faculty and students are working closely 
See GRADING, page A5
INSIDE THE TARTAN
Forum
Does Parking Services actually 
provide some kind of service? 
Find out In this week's Forum, 
page A6
Sports
Kayvon Fatahalian wins national 
Rolex tennis tournament, 
page Al1
Arts & Living
International Festival 2000: 
Latin America and Jerry 
Springer bring some spice to 
campus, 
page B1
Hill llllllllBimillimilMIIIIMI IIBIIIB
Science & Technology
Is CDR the wave of the future? 
That and more, 
page B4
Entertainment
"What chu talkin about, 
Willis?" The Tartan speaks 
with Wesley Willis, 
page B7
New joint 
venture will 
address 
bioterrorism
by Clinton Brownley
Junior Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellon University and 
the University of Pittsburgh are cur
rently working on establishing a 
Biomedical Security Institute 
(BMSI). The BMSI focuses on the 
need to advance the nations capa
bility to prepare for, detect, ana
lyze, prevent, and respond to acts of 
terrorism and natural events 
involving biological agents. The 
BMSI is a local, state, and national 
resource located in Pittsburgh for 
research, development, and solu
tion application to scientific and 
operational problems posed by 
threats of bioterrorism.
The institute has a three-pronged 
approach. First, BMSI is participat
ing in strategic planning to assist 
the Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention (CDC) in evolution and 
execution of its National 
Bioterrorism Preparedness and
See BMSI, page B4 ,
Jeff Cullers/Photo Staff
H&SS hosted an open house last Wednesday to give the University community an opportunity to enjoy the facjb 
ities in the new wing in Baker Hall.The new wing includes classrooms, meeting rooms, a terrace and coffee bar.; 
It also includes the dean's office, Academic Advisory Center, faculty offices and labs.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 30, 2000
IRE+
Campaign quickens, turns negative
National News
WASHINGTON (AP)  George 
W. Bush called A1 Gore a man 
who has been in Washington too 
long, accusing him of divisively 
pitting one group against another, 
while the vice presidents cam
paigners said Saturday they will 
make a key, closing issue of the 
Texas governors lack of season
ing.
Gore is so confident about his 
ability, he claimed he invented 
the Internet, said Bush, who 
labeled Gore a man prone to 
exaggeration. Then he launched 
into a whimsical play on-his own 
middle initial: But if the man 
was so smart, how come all the 
Internet addresses begin with 
W? Not only one W, but three 
Ws.
It has now been months since 
Gore openly questioned Bushs 
experience. But on Saturday 
night, Gore was asked if he agreed 
with The New York Times, which 
endorsed him in Sunday papers 
and said Bush doesnt have the 
experience or knowledge to be 
president.
I havent said that I believe it 
because I dont think its my place 
to say that I believe it, Gore told 
reporters. I will say this though: 
my already high estimation of The New York Times has risen even fur
ther.
With 10 days to go and Bush 
ahead in current opinion polls, 
the pace of the campaign quick
ened and turned even more nega
tive. Both candidates sought 
advantage from their rivals 
weaknesses: Polls show voters 
still harbor doubts about Gores 
sincerity and Bushs intellect. 
Behind the scenes, vice presiden
tial allies were sounding alarms 
about the threat posed by thirdparty candidate Ralph Nader and 
Gores struggles to gain traction 
against Bush. Republicans 
seemed more confident, with 
Bush declaring himself on the 
cusp of victory in traditionally 
Democratic Wisconsin and aides 
privately predicting a November 
7 win.
Theres a feeling of despera
tion. The Gore people are very 
concerned, said Pat McCormick, 
a Democratic political consultant 
in Portland, Oregon, where Nader 
is cutting into the vice presidents
base.
In Minnesota, another state 
ripe for Nader, Gore won 
endorsement from Lieutenant 
Governor Mae Shumk, who was 
elected on Jesse Venturas ticket. 
Gore asked Reform and Green 
party members to join him. We 
want a majority, he told a 
Minneapolis crowd.
President Clinton tried to 
defuse a rift with Gore advisers 
who dont want him on the cam
paign trail. Ill do whatever I 
think is best in consultation with 
the campaign, he said during a 
White House news conference 
about a federal budget stalemate.
Clinton plans to travel to 
California and perhaps other bat
tleground states on behalf of 
Gore and Democratic congres
sional candidates. The vice presi
dent doesnt want to be overshad
owed by his charismatic boss, 
whose impeachment left many 
swing voters, particularly 
women, cool to the Democratic 
ticket. Gore advisers met Friday 
at the White House with Clinton 
aides to negotiate the presidents 
schedule.
A Newsweek magazine poll 
showed Bush ahead of Gore 
among likely voters 49 percent to 
41 percent, similar to the maga
zines findings last week. A con
sensus has emerged among most 
major polls giving Bush a lead of 4 
to 8 percentage points - a narrow 
but notable edge, in a race that has 
seesawed since the summer con
ventions. Bush also holds a small 
lead in the race for state electoral 
votes, according to state polls and 
analysts.
Top Gore advisers unveiled two 
new ads, one sponsored by the 
campaign and the other aired by 
the Gore-controlled Democratic 
National Committee (DNC). The 
DNC spot accuses Bush of signing 
tax cuts for big oil, weakening 
nursing home standards and let
ting polluters police themselves 
during his tenure as Texas gover
nor. By favoring the few, George 
W. Bush would hurt the many, 
the ad says. The second advertise
ment reinforces Gores weeks-long 
attack on Bushs Social Security 
plan.
The television ads were 
designed to fuel voters doubts
about Bushs seasoning, Gore 
adviser Tad Devine told reporters. 
It speaks very powerfully to the 
concerns were hearing in focus 
groups and other research that 
Governor Bush in many ways is 
not up to the job of being presi
dent, Devine said.
The Newsweek polls showed 
Bush is considered more honest. 
Voters think Gore is more intelli
gent, but they are split on who 
would do a better job with inter
national crises.
Gore stuck to his issue-a-day 
mandate, focusing Saturday on 
the Texas governors health care 
policies that he said amounted to: 
Wait four years and call your 
HMO in the morning. He cam
paigned in Pennsylvania and 
Minnesota, rushing home 
between stops for his sons high 
school football game. Bush cam
paigned at a minor league base
ball park in north central 
Wisconsin with running mate Dick 
Cheney. Wearing a dark overcoat 
in the 40-degree day, the Texan 
twice gave his standard stump 
speech to rally Republicans to 
polling places and poke fun at 
Gore.
I could barely contain myself 
when Gore said he was opposed 
to big government, Bush said. I 
knew the man was prone to exag
geration, but that one took the 
cake. The governor said that 
Gore is making promises he 
knows he cant keep without run
ning the country into debt, which 
the vice president has vowed not 
to do. I want you to join me as 
we charge down the finish line! 
Bush said to the Missouri 
Republicans.
Hoping to close the stature gap, 
Bush has campaigned with GOP 
stalwarts such as Arizona Senator 
John McCain and retired General 
Colin Powell. Another Persian 
Gulf warrior, Norman 
Schwarzkopf, has recorded' tele
phone calls telling people not to 
believe Gores Social Security 
advertisements. Knowing voters 
do not like him as much as the 
affable Bush, Gore has banked on 
polls giving him the edge on top 
issues such as health care and the 
economy. New polls suggest Bush 
has closed the gap on both topics,. 
however.
Young girl recovers from pierced heart
HOUSTON (AP)  A 6-year-old 
girl was saved because a pencil 
that pierced her heart in a freak 
fall was not removed by firefight
ers or teachers. Destiny Lopez 
likely would have bled to death 
had they removed the pencil, doc
tors said.
The pencil is the proverbial fin
ger in the dike, said Dr. Todd 
Maxson, a pediatric trauma sur
geon. This is an amazingly brave 
young lady.
Destiny was turning in papers at 
Youens Elementary School on 
Thursday when she tripped and' 
fell on her pencil, which pierced 
the right ventricle of her heart.
The pencil was buried 3 inches 
in the little girls chest. Doctors at 
Ben Taub General Hospital per
formed open-heart surgery, 
removing the pencil and repairing 
the hole. She was in serious but 
stable condition Saturday and was 
expected to be discharged within 
two weeks.
Philadelphia 
teachers strike
PHILADELPHIA (AP)  Despite 
agreement on several major issues, 
striking public school teachers are 
at an impasse over what the mayor 
calls The Almighty Hour  the 
extra hour hes asked teachers to 
work each day. The union agreed to 
compromise, accepting the exten
sion of the work day by a half hour. 
But Mayor John R Street insisted on 
45 minutes.
So with just 15 minutes between 
them, thousands of teachers went 
on strike at the end of the school 
day Friday. If neither side budges, 
more than 210,000 school students 
in the nations seventh-largest 
school district will miss class 
Monday. No negotiations were 
planned for Saturday.
Governor Tom Ridge stands 
behind the mayor, and has 
expressed support for a state 
takeover of the school system if 
Street requests it. Such a move 
would allow the state to revoke the 
credentials of any teacher who 
remains on strike.
Our position is the bell must ring 
later for every child in the 
Philadelphia public school'system, 
Street said.
But union leaders said teachers 
already put in plenty of extra time 
and wont be forced to stay at 
school without extra pay. The 
mayors contract doesnt deal with 
more supplies and equipment. It 
doesnt deal with education. Its 
about the people who work in the 
school system, said Ted Kirsch, 
president of the union representing 
21,000 teachers, nurses, librarians, 
counselors, and other school 
employees. Under Streets plan, stu
dents would have an extra 30 min
utes a day of class time. The other 
15 minutes would be for staff devel
opment. The teachers current 
workday is 6 1/2 hours, while the 
state average is 7 1/2. Teachers in 
Philadelphia work fewer hours than 
in 98 percent of the districts 
statewide, the city said.
Starting salaries are $31,344 for 
teachers with a bachelors degree 
and $32,555 with a masters. 
Teachers reach the top of the pay 
scale after 11 years, earning about 
$50,000 annually, after which they 
get the annual percentage increase 
in the contract.
When talks stalled last month, 
Street imposed work rules that 
would have extended the school 
day by an hour beginning next year. 
The proposed rules also include an 
18.1 percent raise over five years.
Kirsch said teachers resent hav
ing new rules imposed and feel they 
were forced to walk out. Street said 
the city compromised on four of the 
five most contentious issues, elimi
nating disparity in raises for teach
ers and nonteachers, increasing 
signing bonuses, spending more on 
the teachers health and welfare 
fund and reducing the length of the 
contract from five to four years. 
That left the issue of the extra hour.
The city also plans to eliminate 
teachers pay for extracurricular 
activities. We are willing to work if 
you pay us, not accept a pay cut. 
And thats what they dont under
stand, Kirsch said.
Gossiping may 
serve function
(U-WIRE) SYRACUSE, N.Y.  I 
want to tell you something, but I 
know I shouldnt.
For most of us, these subtle 
words are often spoken just before 
we divulge a secret or decide to
spread news that may or may not be 
true. Its gossip, and according to 
research collected over the past few 
years, this social game may be 
ingrained into our genetic code.
The theory  as with most evolutionary theories  starts with the 
apes. Our primate ancestors 
cemented ties within their small 
social groups through the ritual of 
grooming and eventually, lan
guage, said Robin Dunbar, a psy
chology professor at the University 
of Liverpool in England and the 
author of the book Grooming, Gossip, and the Evolution of Language. By schmoozing, you can 
maintain ties with several people at 
once, find your place in the larger 
group and also keep tabs on who is 
in power within the group, he said 
in an email.
For as much as 20 percent of each 
day, our monkey kin sat around 
combing each others coats to main
tain alliances. As they evolved, 
however, clans became larger and 
grooming became less useful as a 
social adhesive. It just took too 
much time to keep up with a hun: 
dred or more pals via nit-picking. 
The problem then arose: How to 
keep clans close with as little effort 
as possible? Dunbar believes gossip 
has contributed a great deal to the 
course of our evolution. Gossip is 
essentially vocal grooming, he 
said. Its a means of maintaining 
order in larger groups.
For some people, gossiping is a' 
way of furthering conversations, 
that seem to be going nowhere, said 
Mike McDonough, a senior broad; 
cast journalism major at Syracuse 
University.
People gossip because it makes 
you feel good to have inside infor
mation, said Janine Sprague, a 
sophomore political science major 
at Syracuse.
World News
Corrections & Clarifications
In Volume 95, Issue 7, Jeffrey Boltons title of Vice President for Business and Planning was missing.
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of ati error, please contact Editor-in-Chief IshHarshawat atx8-2111 or tartan@andrew.cmu.edu.
USS Cole begins 
journey home
ADEN, Yemen (AP)  As a 
recording of the American national 
anthem played Sunday, the crip
pled USS Cole was towed out of the 
Aden port that had been a death 
trap for 17 of its sailors.
The homeward-bound surviving 
crew stood at attention on the deck 
as two yellow tug boats steadily and 
slowly pulled the destroyer away. 
Two other tugboats, one yellow and 
one gray, pushed. Two U.S. patrol 
boats led the procession and a heli
copter hovered overhead.
A white cloth had been removed 
from the 40-by-40-foot hole that 
suspected terrorist bombers had 
blasted in the Coles left side on 
October 12. The blackened hole 
was visible from shore. The trip 
back to the United States is expect
ed to take about five weeks.
Officials believe two suicide 
bombers maneuvered a small boat 
packed with explosives next to the 
Cole and then detonated it. The 
explosion killed 17 sailors, wound
ed 39, and tore much of the midsec
tion of the ship to shreds of metal 
and wire. Yemenis were jubilant 
that the Cole was finally leaving.
It was like a bogeyman keeping 
our fishermen away. Thank God it 
has gone. The sight of an American
ship in our waters is not a beautiful 
sight, said Ibrahim Ahmed.
Tight security in the harbor had 
made it difficult for Yemeni fisher
man to work in the weeks since the 
bombing. At another point along 
the coastal road, about 50 Yemeni 
men gathered, some wearing the 
traditional sarong-like Yemeni 
dress with daggers tucked into their 
waists, laughing and pointing at the 
ship. Women draped in scarfs or 
chadors watched from windows 
and balconies.
We were not comfortable with 
Americans on our territory. They 
should have gone. This is an Arab 
country. They have no business 
here, Mujahed Awad said.As it left, the Cole passed a clus
ter of buildings on the shore where 
two suspects are believed to have 
lived as they planned their attack. 
Out of sight from shore, the Cole 
will be loaded onto the Norwegian 
heavy lift ship the Blue Marlin.
The Blue Marlin usually is used to 
lift and transport commercial cargo 
such as oil rigs. The Navy signed a 
$4.5 million contract with the Blue 
Marlins owner, Offshore Heavy 
Transport of Oslo, Norway, just a' 
few days after the Cole was 
attacked while refueling in Aden.
Monday, the Blue Marlin will fill 
her ballast tanks, slowly submerg
ing her deck and maneuvering 
under the Cole. Then it will empty
the ballast tanks, rising and lifting 
the Cole out of the water.
The entire process will take at 
least 24 hours. The timing is actual
ly uncertain because the condition 
of the Cole will be better under
stood once it is lifted out of the 
water.
The Coles Tomahawk and 
Harpoon missiles and other muni
tions, which were not damaged in 
the bombing, will remain aboard in 
their normal storage area, officials 
said. Most of the crew of about 300 
has remained aboard since the 
attack. A small number are to stay 
aboard for the trip back to the 
United States; the rest will be flown 
home. The Navy has said it intends 
to repair the Cole and return it to 
service, although it has not yet 
decided where the work will be 
done, spokesman Commander' 
Greg Smith said.
Although the Navy initially said it; 
planned to take the Cole back to its; 
home port of Norfolk Naval Station; 
in Virginia, Smith said Friday that it 
might instead take it to Ingalls. 
Shipbuilding in Pascagoula, 
Mississippi, where it was built, or to 
the Bath Iron Works shipyard in 
Bath, Maine, which built other 
Arleigh Burke-class destroyers like 
the Cole. The Navy has told; 
Congress it may take $150 million; 
to repair the Cole, which cost $ibillion to build.
American Heart 
Association*
Fighting Hoart Disease and Strok
Women,
Heart Disease 
& Stroke
Cardiovascular diseases cause 
almost 1 in 2 women's deaths.
ft
As women approach the age 
of menopause, their risk 
of heart disease and stroke 
rises steadily.
Know the Risk Factors:
 Smoking
 High Blood Cholesterol 
 High Blood Pressure
 Physical Inactivity
 Overweight
 Diabetes
uncanny.
Aluminum by Design: 
Jewelry to Jets. It's 
lightweight yet sturdy. 
Beautiful, yet functional.
And for centuries, a 
source of inspiration 
for artists, designers 
and engineers alike.
To see all that aluminum 
has been and can be, 
come to Aluminum by 
Design: Jewelry to Jets.
Oct 28-Feb II
412.622.313I
www.aluminumbydesign.org
CARNEGIE MUSEUM OF ART 
Imagine that
sponsored by McoafimndationOne of the four Carnegie Museums of Pittsburgh
He art Stroke Briefs
For more information, call 
1 -800-AHA-USA1 or visit 
www.americanheart.org

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 30, 2000
Bush discusses responsible leadership Gore promotes campaign at University
BUSH, from page A1 
tive reform to Social Security and 
education. Powell added that when it 
comes to decision-making Bush will 
trust the governors ... trust the peo
ple who are closer to the problem 
than the leaders in Washington are. 
Those are the Washington bureau
crats.
Lastly, Bush stepped up to a podi
um baring his campaign theme 
Responsible Leadership and 
stood in front a of a backdrop head
lined with the same theme and 
filled with words such as biparti
sanship, honor, integrity, and 
results. Bush opened his mono
logue by urging Pennsylvanian 
Republicans to turn out to vote so 
that he could win the war in 
Pennsylvania on November 7th.
I know you can judge the char
acter of a man by the company he 
l^eeps, said Bush. The qualities he 
said a responsible leader should 
have included a clear agenda, 
responsibility, arid a consistent 
stance on issues. We are all 
responsible for the choices and 
decisions we make in life, said 
Bush. Bush spent a large amount of 
his speech contrasting his plans 
with those of Democratic candidate 
Al Gore. Bush asked people to 
invest their payroll tax for retire
ment,but said that Gores plan 
would put the country $40 trillion 
in debt that future generations 
would have to pay off, placing 
grandparent against grandchild.
We should give people options 
not orders, help people live their 
lives, not run their lives, said Bush. 
Then he spoke of increasing inde
pendent wealth and criticizing 
Gores policies and character. He 
said that Gore does not trust the 
American people and that much of 
his answers are dictated by 
Washington from Washington. He 
then said that Gores views were 
the the wrong ideas.
Bush continued by saying Gores 
election would add four years of 
drift to eight years of failure. In the 
same speech, Bush also stated that 
negative tones in campaigning are 
destroying bipartisanship and that he 
has a respect for honest differences. 
Students had varying views of the 
speech. Bush seemed to really con
nect with the crowd and get every
one pumped up, but all of the people 
there were already voting for him. 
He tall<ed about goals for his presi
dency, but not much about specific 
issues, which I would have liked. It 
seemed more like a rally than a 
speech to convert voters, said 
Kristen Matlock, a sophomore ECE.
Jason Niemann, a junior electri
cal and computer engineering 
major and president of CMUs 
College Republicans, said that he 
believed the main focus of Bush's 
speech was to try to draw a distinc
tion between himself and Al Gore 
by criticizing the current adminis
trations reliance on polls, as well as 
a lack of progress on issues that
have dominated the campaign.
Since many of Gore's priorities 
mirror the same priorities of the 
Clinton Gore administration's plat
forms from 1992 and 1996 ... Bush 
has an easy target with Gore's credi
bility on these matters, since the 
Clinton/Gore team has had 8 years* 
to make these issues a priority... yet 
little progress has,been made, said 
Niemann. Gore has been trying to, 
distance liimself from Clinton in the 
recent weeks, but there is little or no 
indication that he would be any dif
ferent than Clinton.
Junior IS/economics major Su 
Kim said, I was not impressed with 
Bush but I already knew his plat
forms and his stance on various 
issues. He didnt talk much about 
substance. Basically, [he said] I 
need your vote, and attacked 
Gores character. He talked a little 
about Social Security and educa
tion, but stayed away from health
care and the economy.
As enthusiastic as Bush support
ers were inside, there were equally 
enthusiastic Bush protesters out
side. Before and after the rally, sev
eral groups gathered outside to 
protest Bushs views. Some were 
local union members, some were 
members of Democratic and 
Socialists groups, and others were 
people who joined them off the 
street. Cries of Sexist, racist, anti
gay: George W. go away! were 
heard surrounding Soldiers and 
Sailors.
GORE, from page Al 
the audience that the current eco
nomic boom and record rates of 
unemployment, especially amongst 
Latinos and African Americans, 
were because of the Democratic 
Presidency. Further, Gore, making 
reference to CMU and as a repre
sentative of the Clinton Presidency, 
also discussed the new approach to 
using information in the transfor
mation into the technological age.
You here at Carnegie Mellon 
understand that every job, every 
profession, and every endeavor in 
life is being transformed by the 
new importance of computers, 
said Gore.
He used the topic of the 
Information Age to lead into his 
plans for education. Gore called for 
more respect for teachers and 
referred to them as the lock
smiths for the education, which he 
described as the key to the future. 
Gore noted several aspects of his 
education plans, including the 
reductions of classroom size, the 
recruitment of new teachers, uni
versal high-quality preschool, and 
the modernization of the nations 
schools, of which he called the 
number one priority of the 21st 
century. Gore called for testing 
and standards for a new teachers 
subject area. He also stated there is 
a need for signing bonuses for disci
plines in which more teachers are 
needed. Gores education plans 
also took on a negative when he 
blasted Republican Presidential
candidate George W. Bush for his 
support of vouchers.
He [Bush] proposes to drain ... 
taxpayer money away from public 
schools in the form of private school 
vouchers to schools that are not 
accountable for public money, said 
Gore. Further Gore pushed a tax 
credit that would give families tax 
breaks for up to $10,000 of college 
tuition. Gores repeated jabs at 
Bush and his tuition tax break pro
posals evoked the strongest and 
loudest reaction from the crowd.
CMU College Republican 
President Jason Niemann thought 
Gore was creating class divisions on 
the basis of tax relief, saying Gore 
was seeing wealthy people as part 
of the problem. Neimann contin
ued that it made logical sense that 
the wealthiest one percent of 
Americans would receive the great
est amount of tax relief, because 
they pay most of the nations taxes.
Gore criticized Bushs so-called 
fuzzy math, and he went as far as 
to suggest that Bush could not add 
one to one when he said that Bush 
is promising the same $1 trillion to 
the elderly as he is to young work
ing Americans. Gore was also crit
ical of Bushs tax cuts. For the 
good of our families and our econ
omy, were not going to be dragged 
back to runaway spending and a 
massive tax cut for the wealthy at 
the expense of the middle class, 
the Vice President said. The other 
sides plan, that huge tax cut that 
squanders the surplus, giving
almost half of it to the wealthiest 
one percent, is the wrong choice at 
the wrong time, taking America in 
the wrong direction.
Gore opined that Governor Bush 
was unqualified to address the; 
environmental concerns of the 
nation. He said Texas is first in 
industrial pollution and poor air 
quality. I want to protect the envi
ronment in ways that create good, t 
new jobs.. .And I want to put steel
workers to work, building the new; 
facilities that will be used for mod
ernizing utilities and factories.
In addition to education, tax cuts 
and the environment, Gore took 
time to address health care. We 
need to move step by step toward 
universal healthcare, starting with 
every child within the next four 
years. Gore continued that two 
health care issues at stake in this 
election are the Patients Bill of 
Rights and a prescription drug 
plan. It is morally wrong for you to . 
have a decision made by your doc
tor... overruled by some young clerk 
behind a computer terminal at an 
HMO [Health Maintenance t 
Organization], who doesnt have a^ 
license to practice medicine and 
doesnt have a right to play God. 
He concluded that a Patients Bill of 
Rights has not been passed because 
insurance companies and HMOs 
have wielded great financial and 
lobbying power to convince those  
on the other side, the Republicans,H 
to stop it. They support Governor^ 
See GORE, page A5
Gore rally brings mixed reactions from supporters, Republicans, third parties
REACTIONS, from page Al 
to the Executive Members of Senate and AB 
Political Chair Tanya Tarr about setting up 
a protest zone for students who wanted to 
voice their opinions during the rally. Liber 
says that Agent James had a printed out 
copy of the email out at the questioning.
Libers email, sent only one day before 
this encounter, said that an area should be 
reserved for those of us who consider 
Gore to be a neo-fascist racist to protest his 
coming to CMU  perhaps violently. Liber 
says that the threat of violence was not 
serious, and that he never imagined that it 
would be seen that way.
After Liber was questioned, his room was 
searched by the agent, after which he was 
sent back to class. He says that he allowed 
the search even though the agent did not 
have a warrant because, I had nothing to 
hide. He says that Agent James also sug
gested that he not attend last Fridays rally.
As no clear protest zone was set up at the 
rally, those who supported candidates 
other than Gore, most notably Nader and 
Republican candidate George W. Bush, 
voiced their opinions by handing out flyers 
and talking to those walking toward the 
rally about their candidates.
George Gunning, a Bush supporter and a 
senior political science major, said that he 
was at the rally because [Republicans] hope 
at we can manage to get our voices heard. 
Gunning also said that he was not planning to 
attend the rally itself. Had he tried, he was 
almost certain that his pro-Bush sign would 
have been taken at the door. While stickers 
and pins supporting other candidates were 
allowed into the rally, signs for those candi
dates were not. I came in [to the rally] with 
a Nader sign. This dude with Gore requested 
rudely that I give it to him, said Larry
Suarez, a first year undecided student. 
Suarez claims that the official told him that 
no signs were allowed in to the rally for secu
rity purposes, yet Suarez notes that he saw 
many Gore signs inside.
Political organizations like Greenpeace 
have long been aware that signs with dis
senting opinions are rarely allowed into ral
lies. Therefore, several members of the envi
ronmental group brought blank pieces of 
paper and magic markers into the rally and 
made signs with slogans like Gore Really 
Burns Me Up after they had passed the secu
rity checkpoint According to Greenpeace 
activist Nathan Santry, the sign is a reference 
to Gores silence concerning a hazardous 
waste incinerator in nearby East Liverpool 
that Gore promised environmentalists would 
not be allowed to open back in 1992, during 
his first run for the vice-presidency. Yet the 
incinerator did open, and has remained open
for the last eight years.
While Greenpeace has no official posi
tion on any of the presidential candidates, 
Santry said of Gore, You make a promise 
and you blow it, youre going to get some 
heat for it.
Among student Gore supporters, reac
tion to the dissenting opinions voiced at 
the rally were positive overall. Jason 
Currie, a Gore supporter and a junior social 
history major, said that he knew many of 
the students protesting and that they have 
just as much of a right to voice their opin
ions as others.
Further, says John Yuen, a junior com
puter science major, dissent is a factor at 
every political rally. The Gore supporter 
claims that he attended a Bush rally in 
front of the Westin William Hotel earlier 
this month and there were many protesters 
there as well.
uourtesy ueorge Lopez
Last Friday at 2:10 pm people were seen' 
removing signs supporting Ralph Nader from  
the first floor of Hammerschlag Hall.
INFO SESSION
Monday, Nov. 13, 6:00 - 7:00 pm 
Porter Hail, Room A18A 
Casual, informative, and free Adobe 
software to a lucky winner!
ON-CAMPUS INTERVIEWS
Tuesday and Wednesday, Nov. 14 and 15 
Career Center
Adobe
Come work on cool products like Adobe Photoshop-', Adobe Acrobat, Adobe 
GoLive, and Adobe After Effects*. Everyone is welcome to our Info Session. 
Graduating seniors may sign up for an interview through the Career Center.
inn
iuv>
FORTUNE
www.adobe.com/jobs

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 30, 2000
[| Panama City FL
[| South Padre TX 1]
[paytona Beach FUj^pff^
Destin FI
I Hiiton Head SCJ
Steamboat CO )
BreckenridgeCOl
www.sttncgase.com
University works to plan, organize Gore rally
distributed to students, faculty, and 
administration.
Hale, who was also involved with 
coordinating the event, said that 
many other individuals were 
involved with the rallys setup.
If youre going to pull something 
like this off, it will involve a whole 
array of university offices to sup
port it, said Hale.
He added that Campus Police 
worked closely with the Secret 
Service to provide security, 
Facilities Management Services 
was involved with the event set up, 
and Telecommunications was 
involved with setting up communi
cations hookups for members of 
the press and Gores team. In addi
tion, he said the parking office was 
crucial to accommodate such a 
large influx of people to the cam
pus.
For some of these services the 
Gore team will pay, including 
rental of the site. Were not just giv
ing away services to the Gore cam
paign, said Hale.
Hale also said academic depart
ments were cooperative in prepar
ing for the event by providing space 
for Gores team in the nearby 
Baker, Wean, and Doherty Halls 
both before and during the event. 
The occupants of these buildings 
experienced some inconveniences 
due to the high level of security 
necessary for a trip of the Vice 
President. Special measures 
included blocking doors to Porter, 
Hamerschlag, and Wean before 
and during the rally, closing part of 
Roberts Drive to traffic, and 
restricting parking on Frew Street, 
according to campus advisories 
releasing by University Relations 
before the event.
Poviding security for the event 
was the Secret Service, assisted by 
the Allegheny County Police 
Department and Campus Police.
Were here to support the Secret 
Service. They tell us what to do 
and we do it, said Mark McConnell 
of the Allegheny County Police 
Department. Like a former lieu
tenant said, they use us like 
whores, he said with a smile. 
McConnell also said that in addi
tional to staffing the event with 
officers, his department provided 
the specialized service of bomb 
sniffing dogs.
Other security measures includ
ed scanning individuals with metal 
detectorsand searching through all 
bags individuals brought into the 
barricaded area on the mall.
Secret Service agents, who said 
they were unable to comment on 
security preparations for the event, 
deferred questions to their boss. 
This administrator, who said he
was unable to provide his name or 
title, said that preparations for an 
event the size of this rally were sig
nificant. Quite a number of indi
viduals were involved, working 
anywhere from a week in advance, 
he said.
He said that while he could kdisclose specifics, preparations 
involved finding out what sites the 
Vice President would be visiting 
and doing a check of the facility 
from a security standpoint. He said 
security coverage extended to all 
areas that could be subject to ter
rorists, from rooftops to the ground 
level to sub-ground levels.
During the event, CMU students 
seemed fascinated by the security, 
as they pointed to the security per
sonnel stationed on top of 
Hamerschlag and Wean halls.
People see all the glitz and 
glamour. People dont know how 
much work is involved until you do 
a site like this, said the Secret 
Service representative, who said 
they work anywhere from 8 to 16 
hour days.
While the Secret Service was 
coordinating security, University 
Relations provided assistance to 
the event in other ways. Hale said 
that the office obviously does not 
charge for the work they did for the 
rally.
Were supporting the event to 
make sure it goes smoothly on 
behalf of the University. There are 
things provided to make sure the 
event is done the way the 
University wants it done, said 
Hale.
A large Carnegie Mellon sign 
appearing in front of the Vice 
Presidents microphone was one 
way in which the Universitys name 
was promoted during the event.
Hale said that having a national 
campaign at the University brings
national spotlight for a day. He 
pointed out that at this time in the 
campaign, with about a week and a 
half until Election Day, the press 
covers everything candidates do11 
and that means covering Gores 
visit to Carnegie Mellon.
A press sign in sheet indicated 
that representatives from KDKA, 
WTAE, FOX, WPGH, and CNN were 
present. The event was also cov
ered by the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, 
the Tribune-Review, and The New York Times, among others. Two 
press platforms were set up for the 
national and local press near Baker 
Hall. Shortly before the rally, 
branches were cut from a tree near 
the press box so that cameras could 
get a better view of the main event.
In addition, Gores team set up a 
number of decorations for the 
event. A large Gore/Lieberman 
2000 sign hung from the side of 
Wean Hall, as did two smaller ban
ners from Hamerschlag Hall. 
American and Pennsylvanian flags 
were also set up as part of the 
backdrop, which were all lighted 
for the event. The CMU communi
ty also hung up their own sign, 
including a sign on Wean that said 
AL GORITHM and Nader 2000 
signs on Hamerschlag. While 
small Nader signs remained up in 
the background, questions were 
raised regarding the tolerance of 
alternative viewpoints during the 
rally.
Hale said that the Democratic 
Party was not being favored in any 
way. It was Gores team who 
approached CMU to consider doing 
a rally on campus.
Like a lot of political campaigns, 
when the Gore campaign came to 
Pittsburgh to scout for a location, 
they asked to see our campus. Once 
they got look at the Hamerschlag 
Hall location they liked it and thats
us, said Hale.
He added that CMU agreed to 
allow the rally to come to campus 
because it was felt to be an appro
priate event for a university setting.
Tarr, who said she was ecstatic 
when she heard Gore would be 
coming, seemed to agree, as she 
spoke of her role as AB Political 
Speakers Chair.
My goal was to re-politicize our 
campus. So many students charac
terize our campus as apathetic or 
lazy, and I know for a fact that this 
is a misjudgement, said Tarr. She 
referenced the 800 students 
attending a Ralph Nader speech in 
Rangos and activism regarding the 
controversial Intel move to campus 
as examples of ways students have 
been active. Tarr said that she 
thinks the Gore rally was just an 
example of how things on campus 
seem to be changing for the better. 
She spoke of the increase of activi
ties, that students appear to be 
happy, and how CMU seems more 
like a major university now.
This has been my goal all along 
-to help students pull themselves 
out of just their coursework and 
realize that there is a larger frame
work that we must be mindful of-a 
framework of community, in this 
case the greater community made 
up of our nation, said Tarr.
Hale also said events like this 
rally fit well with the school.
I think this type of thing is what 
universities are about. Were open 
to all kinds of ideas and all politi
cal points of view, said Hale. 
The university would be open if 
student organization wanted to 
host a Bush/Cheney rally or Ralph 
Nader again. Thats part of what 
universities do, said Hale. 
According to Hale, the Bush cam
paign has looked at CMU, but has 
not chosen it as a location for an
After his speech last Friday, Gore took a few minutes to shake hands with people in the crowd.
Crime and Incident 
Report
10/29, Liqour Laws  Campus Police witnessed a fight in 
progress at the interesection of Forbes and Morewood. The victim stat
ed that he was punched in the face by a male dressed in military cloth
ing while trying to board a Pitt bus. A CMU Police sergeant boarded 
the bus and located the actor. While the victim had left the area, the 
actor was determined to be intoxicated and was issued with a citation.
10/29, Unauthorized Uniform Use  Campus Police stopped 
a student who was reported to be intoxicated by a caller. The actor was 
wearing a blue CMU security shirt while walking with three other 
males. The actor explained to the police that he was wearing the shirt 
to promote a Crime and Incident video that he was making for school. 
The actor was not found to be drunk, but was ordered to remove the 
shirt and give it to Campus Police as the usage of the shirt while walk
ing down Beeler Street was unauthorized. The actor apologized.
10/21, Intoxication  Campus Police responded to Morewood 
Gardens for an intoxicated male. Upon arrival, police found the actor 
seated on the floor near the door babbling. Through his incessant ramblings, the actor stated that he was 13 years old, even though he is 19. 
The actor was found laying in a parking lot unconscious. The actor was 
transported to the hospital.
10/23, Liquor Laws  While a Campus Police officer was 
assigned to Mudge desk detail, an RA told Campus Police that there 
were some students drinking beer on the second floor. The officer 
went to investigate and noticed loud music coming from a room, which 
was well lit. The officer observed two males holding beer cans. 
Campus Police knocked on the door and the two males attempted to 
hide the beers behind a bed. They1 were told their parents would be 
called, but were not issued with citations because of the number of 
criminal incidents being handled by the CMU Police at the time.
10/24, Civil Disturbance  A food service employee called 
Campus Police to report that a colleague was causing a disturbance on 
the second floor of the UC. CMU Police determined at the actor was 
using foul language towards the management. The actor stated that he 
went to his manager to ask for an advance on his pay for housing. The 
actor did not like the reply and made the same request to another man
ager. The actor became irate at the management and exclaimed, F-k 
you, F-k this place, Im outta here. He promptly returned to thekitchen. 
The actor quit his job on the spot and was escorted from the building by 
Campus Police.
10/25, Suspicious Activity  Campus police was radioed by 
security because three males were removing plastic milk crates from 
the loading dock of the UC. The actors were stopped by University 
Police and ordered to return the milk crates to their original location. 
The actors complied and the milk crates were safely restored.
10/26, Suspicious ActivityA computer science lecturer called 
Campus Police to report suspicious activity in Wean Hall. The victim 
stated that he left his office with a note attached to the door.  When he 
returned he said that the note was removed from the door and placed 
inside the trash can in his office which was locked. The note stated 
that the victim did not want anybody entering his office or to disturb 
his work area. Campus Police advised the victim that the US 
Department of the Treasurys Secret Service may have entered the 
room and disposed of the note.
- Campus Sergeant Ricci reviews all reports prior to release.- Only three people on The Tartan staff see the reports: the Editor-in- Chief, the News Editor, and the staffwriter typing the report.-All personal names of complainants, victims, suspects, and fraternities are omitted from the printed report. Ethnic descriptions and other personal details are given only in the context of complete descriptions.- Not every incident that occurs appears in the report.
Compiled by 
Aseem Gupta
I800*SUNCHASE
GET DRESSED BEFORE YOU HIT THE ROAD.
Gloves help your grip. Leathers 
help prevent hypothermia. And all 
gear protects against flying objects 
Which is vital if you ever Vo/ 
become the flying object. Xtt/ 
MOTORCYCLE SAFETY FOUNDATION^
Where it matters most.
As one of the world's leadng diversified technology companies, we're breaking new ground in every
thing from defense and commercial electronics, and business aviation and special 
mission aircraft, As a Raytheon employee, you'll contribute to the development of exciting, 
revolutionary technology designed to make life better, easier, and safer throughout the world. 
Such as our STARS air traffic control system. And our award-winning Mj/itSij/ir technology.
But it all starts with you. Your creativity. Your knowledge and innovation. And enthusiasm 
about the future. In return, we offer exceptional training and professional development oppor
tunities. A supportive, domr-to-earth work environment. And incredible benefits Including flexi
ble schedules designed to respect your quality of life.
So you an still show oil all those great qualities of yours outside of work, too.
We have a lot to tell you about Raytheon and the exciting opportunities we have available. 
Plan on visiting our booth at your college career fair. If you are unable to attend the fair, please 
e-mail your resume to: resume@rayjobs.com (ASCII text only; no attachments), or mail to: 
Raytheon Company, Attn: National Staffing Data Center, P.O. Box 660246, MS-201, 
Dallas, TX 75266. U.S. Citizenship may be required. We are an equal opportunity employer.
Opportunities are available for exceptional students with the following majors:
 Computer Science
 Computer Engineering
 Electrical Engineering
 Mechanical Engineering
 Math
> Physics
> Chemical Engineering
 Aeronautical Engineering
 Finance/Accounting
 Human Resources
 Industrial and Labor 
Relations
 Marketing/Communications
 Management
at www.rayjobs.com/campus for further information including a calendar
; Raytheon, we strive to be the employer of choice for a diverse workforce by attracting, retaining, and
Check out our Website
of recruiting events. At Raytheon, we striveto be the employer 
recognizing the most talented, resourceful and creative people.
Bringing technology to the edgeRaytheon

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 30, 2000
News Briefs
Pitt student held on murder charges
Matthew Kaguyutan, a 23-year-old Pitt student, appeared before the 
Allegheny County Deputy Coroner on Friday, October 20, in a preliminary 
hearing to decide whether he should remain in jail before to his trial for 
criminal homicide. He is accused of setting a fire that killed senior Pitt stu
dent, Joseph Marcinek.
Kaguyutans ex-girlfriend and Junior at Pitt, Carissa Probst testified at 
the trial. She said that after she ended the relationship in April, Kaguyutan 
vandalized Probsts house, spied on her, and then set fire to two Oakland 
buildings out of jealousy. She also received several prank phone calls and 
was victim to graffiti on the wall of her home last summer.
During the summer, Probst decided to move into an apartment with Jesse 
Vanko, a friend hers and Kaguyutan. The two never moved into the apart
ment, though, because Kaguyutan set fire to it, as he later admitted. The two 
were able to find and move into another apartment at the end of August.
According to Probst, after classes started, they remained friends, but 
things became increasingly strained as the semester went on. Kaguyutan 
began spying on her and checking her phone messages. Then, on 
September 29, she awoke to an apartment engulfed in flames. She and 
Vanko escaped through a back window. Probst then ran to the third floor 
apartment to warn its tenants. She continued to ring the doorbell until 
debris began to fall from the apartment above. One of the third floor ten
ants died in the fire. The next week Probst received a death threat in the 
mail. The letter was anonymous, but mentioned the fire.
According to homicide detective Richard McDonald, Kaguyutan admit
ted to setting the fire after drinking at several bars in the Oakland area. He 
also claimed responsibility for the death threat and the previous fire. 
Kaguyutan stated that he had stolen two keys from Probst and had left a 
burning candle by her door. Captain James Lapata, the Pittsburgh Bureau 
of Fires Arson Squad leader, said that there must have been some kind of 
fuel used to set the fire, based on the rate the flames engulfed the room.
After the trial, Kaguytans lawyer told reporters that his client was 
innocent and had been coerced into testifying.
Compiled by 
Sara Stille
Gore speaks at University
Intel, CMU agreement continues to cause controversy
INTEL, from page A1 
already proposed 9,000 to 15,000 
square feet in the basment. This 
possibility was first raised by 
Marcin Jeske, a senior computer sci
ence major, who has suggested that 
an extra 50 percent of the proposed 
space be renovated for student use. 
Another issue, Murphy said, was 
what the ultimate use of the space 
will be. He said that there is an 
absolute commitment that the use 
will be consistent with the goals of 
the University center, but there is no 
specific commitment yet as to what 
that space will ultimately hold.
The last question that Murphy 
and Bolton said that must be taken 
into consideration is the philosoph
ical question of the appropriateness 
of the solution center in the UC 
basement.
"My own personal feeling is that 
a majority of people think it is an 
okay thing to do," said Murphy.
The petition, started by junior 
computer science major Marc Zinck, 
reflects an opposing opinion, howev
er. Started two weeks ago, it states 
"Establishment of Intel offices on uni
versity grounds raises disturbing 
questions about the influence of cor
porate interests on both the adminis
tration and faculty. In particular, it
damages the reputation of the school 
as an objective research institution."
Zinck said he and his friends 
started the petition after SAHQ 
members could not muster enough 
support for it. As of Friday the peti
tion had over 500 signatures gath
ered over a period of four days, 
mostly of undergraduate students 
and a few graduate students.
Fitzgerald, Murphy, and Jacobs 
said the petition was positive to the 
overall discussions concerning the 
Intel solution center. "I think its really 
great the Marc went out and did 
that," said Fitzgerald. However, she 
added that she thinks the petition 
might not be an accurate way of 
gauging whether or not students 
really oppose the Intel deal."The 
weird thing about petitions there is a 
lot of pressure [to sign] when some
body is coming [up] to you," she said.
Zinck and others approached 
students about the petition outside 
of Doherty Hall. Students who 
were approached were given the 
FAQ and were given background 
information about the proposed 
agreement, Zinck said.
"I can't imagine coming up to Dean 
Murphy and coming up with the 500 
signatures and saying we can't do it 
because of this," said Fitzgerald.
Jacobs said he disagrees.
"[Zinck] has approximately 10 per
cent of the undergrad population... 
That's pretty impressive,", he said. 
He added that he thinks that the 
petition should be a factor for 
Murphy to take into account when 
considering the deal. Jacobs said 
that before if someone had asked 
him how many students were 
opposed to Intel moving into the 
UC, he would have said five to. ten 
percent. After Zinck's petition, he 
would say it was more along the 
lines of 15 to 25 percent.
Jacobs said that although he sup
ports Zinck's efforts, he personally 
doesn't agree with the petition and 
has said that the Intel move would 
be beneficial to the University.
The possibility of holding a stu
dent referendum, possibly by send
ing out a mass email was brought 
up at the SAHQ forum, but Zinck 
said the suggestion was not 
received well.
"You start to wonder how accurate 
a representation [a referendum] is 
for how students feel." said 
Fitzgerald who pointed out the low 
turnout for the PAT Bus referendum 
and low voter turnout for student 
government elections. Fitzgerald 
added that perhaps the issue that 
really needs to be looked at is inter
action between the administration
and students. "Maybe students. 
weren't really comfortable going up 
to Dean Murphy and saying I think, 
this is bad."
Jacobs, however, said that he. 
feels a mass email or referendum 
would be a good idea because it, 
would allow the administration to. 
get a statistical representation of of 
where the majority lies on the Intel' 
issue. "I think you'd probably get a 
75-80 percent rate because this is, 
such heated issue," he said. "The. 
administration are being very, 
democratic about this [with their, 
discussions]... Why not take it a 
step further? Why not make it a sci
ence?"
Murphy said that he has post-, 
poned discussions with Intel until 
he has more discussions with stu
dents. Zinck said he thinks that the 
administration has already made 
their decision to go ahead with( 
Intel, and are now looking to find 
issues to make it acceptable for stu
dents. "They say they haven't made 
up their mind... But frankly they' 
seem to have made up their mind,". 
said Zinck.
For specific information regard
ing the Intel deal, the FAQ can be 
located on the Web at., 
http://www.andrew.cmu.edu/~ss, 
2p/FAQ_Intel_sheet.htm.
University works towards plus/minus grading decision
GORE, from page A3 
Bush and Governor Bush supports 
their funding proposal that doesnt 
do anything but seems like at first 
glance that it might do something.
In 1992, he [Gore] and then 
Governor Bill Clinton ran on a 
Patients Bill of Rights. Then in 
1996, they ran on a Patients Bill of 
Rights, said Bush spokesman Ken 
Lisaius. Lisaius made mention of 
the Texas Patients Bill of Rights, 
which Lisaius called a bipartisan 
proposal that includes an inde
pendent review panel used to filter 
an overloaded court system. The 
independent group has reviewed 
1,000 cases, while nearly only ten 
have moved onto the court system.
The rally, directed to largely 
committed Democratic crowd, did 
end with Gore gearing rhetoric 
toward the college community. 
This generation of young people 
is the most involved, the most
committed, the most socially 
aware generation in the history of 
the United States, said Gore.
Gore attempted to engage the 
youthful audience members by 
asking them not to be disillu
sioned with the system and 
instead become involved in the 
political process.
Tell them [the undecided 
voter] the facts, but them give 
them the passion in your 
heart...Give me your help, and 
give me your votes, and give me 
your hearts so I can fight for 
you!
Indu Sekar, a sophomore Public 
Policy and Management major, 
thought Gores solutions were 
more appropriate than Bushs 
ideas. I thought Gores speech 
was very energetic. He did basi
cally his job: to get the crowd 
more energized and to go out and 
vote.
GRADING, from page A1 
together to reach a decision. Most 
faculty members see the plus/minus 
system as a tool to help students, but 
they are listening to hear what we 
have to say. They want to know all of 
the input, both positive and nega
tive, that students have, and theyre 
also looking into which exact system 
would best meet the students 
needs, said Harber.
The original intent to switch to a 
grading system arose approximate
ly 10 years ago when colleges were 
implementing five different grad
ing scales. In hopes of moving to a 
single university-wide grading sys
tem, several University depart
ments approved the decision to 
implement a solitary plus/minus 
grading scheme. Graduate students 
almost fully supported the change, 
but a huge protest arose among 
undergraduate students. As a result 
of these protests, Student Senate 
vetoed the decision. The
Need
This
Find a campus job 
$$ online! $$
w.ad ob ecm c/ .c .ja sPhaah sa/.ah iaBtK.ap 
iiiCPtC-lnCaynL-PhaahLC
w.ad kb sgK-f c/ rPh.P/ruI' P/y hamKt.ah KT Mcn jP,a /a,ah ntay K. BaTchaC
w.ad Yb sgK-f c/ zxctK.Kc/tvp -Pldnt qcBt Pha gKt.ay jahaC* waPh-j ntK/m .ja zeKlK. JcB waPh-j Bcxv, gc-P.ay c/ .ja Bc..cl cT .ja dPmaC
LtS of jobs 
still available I
Bc.j ichfpt.nyM 
IND 
/c/pichf t.nyM 
qcBt
plus/minus system was adopted for 
the graduate school, but discarded 
for all undergraduate colleges.
However, many undergraduate 
professors and faculty members 
continued to push for the 
plus/minus system, resurfacing the 
debate over the past few years. Im 
absolutely for [the plus/minus grad
ing system]. I find that a simple A-B 
scale is not fine-grained enough for 
students. It actually does students 
an unfair justice because students 
who hand in A- work may receive a B 
instead. I believe the new system 
would actually work in favor of the 
student, said Paul Hopper, profes
sor of english.
Linda Flower, professor of 
rhetoric, is also in favor of switching 
over to plus/minus grading. Its a 
terrific idea. Its a way to give people 
more accurate responses and credit. 
If a student gets a B+, it means they 
havent quite got it, but it says that 
theyre pretty close. To me, that is a
very appropriate system, she said.
Students dont seem as united in 
their opinions about the switch. 
Many are concerned that the sys
tem would lower their QPA and cre
ate more stress and competition. 
Definitely no. Its hard enough to 
get the grades here without killing 
yourself. With the new system, it 
would be even harder and increase 
pressure especially, said Xiao 
Song, a sophomore business 
administration major.
Others disagree. Clarence Cheung, 
a sophomore IS major, said the new 
system would be a better reflection 
of effort. Quinten Steenhuis, a 
Senator for H&SS and first year logic
& computation major, said, I think 
the system can be fair without 
adversely affecting those who didnt 
have the plus/minus grades previ
ously. More gradations would show 
what the students really know.
Both faculty and students have 
been open about voicing their opinions on the matter, but Nair wants to 
proceed slowly. Harber also indi
cates that careful research is going 
into the final decision. First we 
want to see what students and facul
ty have to say about the plus/minus 
system. If it is determined that we 
want to change, then we have to 
work on deciding which system 
would best meet the students 
needs, said Harber.
If the plus/minus system is 
passed, the new system would apply 
to the first-year students in the year 
it is implemented, then for both 
first-years and sophomores the next 
year, and so on. Nair said that a 
change wont effect any of the stu
dents currently at CMU. If the new 
system is implemented, it wont be 
for a while, she said.
Further discussion of the 
plus/minus grading system will 
continue when the University 
Education Council convenes in 
early December.
TUEUS DSAYWAYN
kinko's*
PlTTQRl IDPU
HRVi cUSePr sdPn t aVmolGRomR,m 
mVi gSwYW hWn vaVmoaRVoGiia
Open 24 hours  www.kinkos.com ? 1-800-2-KINK0S  America Online Keyword: Kinkos
PRINT FROM DISK
ONLIENL
OVERHEAD TRANSPARENCIES 
DIGITAL PRINTING 
COMPUTER WORKSTATIONS 
ELECTRONIC FILE SUBMISSION 
HIGH-SPEED INTERNET ACCESS 
POSTERS 
BANNERS & SIGNS 
MOUNTING & LAMINATING
REPORTS 
PRESENTATIONS 
HIGH-V0LUME COPIES 
FLYERS & BROCHURES 
SHIPPING SERVICES 
PICKUP & DELIVERY 
FULL- & SELF-SERVE
40790
EXPRESS BLACK & WHITE COPIES j
Receive 8-1/2* 111* Eipress sgf-setve, single-sided, black-and-white copies on . 
white bond for just 4i each. Limit 50. Oiler islimited to one coupon per customer. | 
Customer must relinquish coupon at time ol purchase. Coupon may not be . 
reproduced and is notvalid with other coupons, oilers or discounts. Oiler valid at 
time ol purchase only and may net be discounted or credited to past or future . 
puichases. Products and services vary by location. Coupon void where prohibited I 
or restricted by law. No cash value.
VALID AT KINKO'S PARTICIPATING U.S. KINKO'S LOCATIONS ONLY.
EXxuEww sOeOu sOxIEw
Recave 8-1/2* r II* Express self-serve, single-sided, lull color copies on 24-lb. 
white bond lor just 79f each. Limit 25. Resizing costs extra. Oiler Is limited to cue 
coupon per custaner. Customer must relinquish coupcn at timeol purchase. Coupcn 
may not be reproduced and Is not valid with ether coupons, oilers or discounts. 
Oiler valid at time ol purchase only and may net be discounted or credited to past 
a future purchases. Products and services vary by location. Coupon void where 
prohibited or restricted by law. No cash value.
VALID AT KINKOS PARTICIPATING U.S. KINKOS LOCATIONS ONLY.
efK/fdLtkinkp'i
Products and sendees vary by locaticn. America Online is a registered servicemark ol America Online, Inc. Kinktfs and kinkos.com are registered trademarks ol Kinko's Ventures, Inc. and ate used by 
permission. Kinkos requires written permission from the copynght holder in order to reproduce any copyrighted work. 02000 Kinktfs. Inc. All rights reserved.
Need Help? Attend Finding an On-Campus Job at the Carnegie Mellon Career Center 
Wednesday, November 1, 2000 
4:30 pm

---------------------------------------------------

Forum
30 October 2000THE TARTANPage A6
Recent campus political events 
invigorate community members
In the past few weeks, the University 
has had visits from several well-known 
individuals  most notably Vice 
President and 2000 Democratic 
Presidential candidate A1 Gore and talkshow host and former politician Jerry 
Springer. These two events show that the 
CMU community, commonly viewed as 
apathetic, can in fact be enlivened with 
political debate.
The Jerry Springer talk, which was 
held in the middle of a class day, drew a 
huge crowd despite its awkward timing. 
Some students, in fact, missed part of 
their classes just to hear Springer. The 
talk was excellent for the community in 
that it caused discussion about political 
issues, particularly issues of free speech 
and the press.
The democratic rally held on Friday 
may have caused some disruption on 
campus, but it was worth the effort that 
organizations such as AB Political 
Speakers, University Relations, Campus 
Police, and Telecommunications put into 
it. The rally, which drew a crowd of 
10,000, stimulated political thinking on 
campus. In addition, several students 
were given the opportunity to volunteer 
and experience first-hand the work 
needed to stage a political rally.
While a large number of people on the 
Mall Friday were students, there were 
also a number of people from the neigh
borhoods surrounding campus. Several
people distributed flyers and voiced 
opposing views than those found at the 
democratic rally. It was refreshing to see 
them on campus expressing their opin
ions, since this kind of activism is usually 
absent at CMU.
Both Springer's talk and the 
Democratic rally also brought attention 
to the University from the surrounding 
area, if not from the entire nation. 
Springer's lecture was talked about in 
the Pittsburgh community and Gore's 
rally received national coverage. While 
CMU. is already well-known for acade
mic achievements by students and fac
ulty, having a major-party Presidential 
candidate speak on campus soon before 
the election puts us on the political 
map.
Even at the beginning of the week, 
after both events were announced, peo
ple began to talk about them. The whole 
campus was stirred up in a contrary 
manner to what many have viewed in the 
past as an uncaring and apathetic stu
dent population. Event planners should 
take the interest in Jerry Springers talk 
and A1 Gores rally as an example of how 
students can get interested in politics. 
Accordingly, in the future the planners 
should continue to bring similar events 
to campus in order to give students a 
chance to express their political views, 
and stimulate thinking about political
Professors fail to recognize the 
importance of students break
Mid-semester Break should be a tme 
for students to relax and get away from 
the grind and stress of class work. This 
year, it was also a good time to allow stu
dents to attend Homecoming festivities. 
Furthermore, since the scheduling this 
semester doesn't bring winter break till 
late December, students desperately 
needed some time off from classes. 
Carnegie Mellon students are used to 
dealing with exams and homework but 
shouldnt have to cope with them over a 
break, as they need to time to recharge 
for the second half of the semester. They 
should be out and about enjoying the 
long weekend, not trapped in the library 
studying for exams, in a cluster program
ming, or pulling their hair out over 
homework.
Unfortunately, for some students, this 
vacation was less than the well-deserved 
break it should be, as many professors 
scheduled TYiesday exams or assigned 
work to be completed for Tuesday. Next 
semester, professors should treat stu
dents with a little more respect by sched
uling homework and exams so that they 
do not conflict with the break. Academic 
departments should do a better job of 
informing these professors about the 
upcoming breaks so they can adequately 
plan for them.
The University shouldnt have to make 
a policy to say to professors, "Dont 
assign homework over break or schedule 
exams the day after break." Instead, fac
ulty should recognize how hard students 
work and how much they rely on the 
long weekend that mid-semester break 
provides. Many professors ignored this 
when planning out their schedules for 
the semester. In fact, some were comTHE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon s Student Newspaper Since igo6 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
ISH HARSHAWAT, Editor-in-Chief
SETH MANDEL, Managing Editor 
SARA STILLE, News Editor 
CHRISTINA KOSHZOW, Forum Editor 
CHRISTOPHER CHUNG, Sports Editor 
JOANNA SMILEY, Co-Arts & Living Editor 
ANDY FRANCIS, Co-Arts & Living Editor 
SRIRAM GOLLAPALLI, Science & Technology Ed. 
BRAD GRANTZ, Business Editor 
GREG NOFI, Entertainment Editor 
JUSTIN SUISSA, Art Editor 
BRYAN KAPLAN, Photo Editor 
ASEEM GUPTA, Online Editor 
CHRIS MESSINA^ Online Design Editor 
MICHAEL ZIMMER, Dossier Design Editor 
LAURA MARTIN, Dossier Co-Literary Editor 
JOSEPH TAGUE, Dossier Co-Literary Editor
ASHA PATHAK, Business Manager 
JENNIFER LIU, Advertising Manager 
BALAJI SARPESHKAR, Copy Manager 
BLAKE ENGEL, Personnel Manager 
LANCE BROWN, Production Manager 
KAI ZHENG, Systems Manager 
BETTY KIM, Darkroom Manager 
BETH POWELL, Asst. Entertainment Editor 
. VINCENT CHAN, Asst. Advertising Manager 
SHAINA MCGRATH, Assistant Photo Editor 
SARA HENNEBERGER, Asst. Production Mgr.
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS 
Elaine Boland, Matt Brun,Behnam Farahpour, 
Bradley Fearn, Cassandra Knight, Christopher 
May, Lorelei Laird, Jonathan Pearce, Anne Ray
;
! .........7* .......................................------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------=2,Justin Suissa/Art Editor;
Letters to the Editor1
pletely unaware of the break and sched
uled exams for Friday or Monday. They 
only changed the dates to earlier ones 
once students pointed out to them that 
there was a break coming up.
Perhaps the most egregious misuse of 
the break was when students in the 
Drama Department spent all mid
semester weekend working on drama 
productions. These students did not 
even have a mid-semester break of 
which to speak. Perhaps the Drama 
Department should consider setting 
aside some time for these students to 
take a breather.
If professors are ignoring the calendar, 
their departments should do a better job 
of reminding them when breaks are 
coming up. Also, departments should 
remind them of the break dates while 
they are writing their syllabi, and 
encourage them not to schedule exams 
or major assignments immediately after 
these breaks. Instead, professors could 
schedule this work immediately before 
the break or some time after it.
Having work over break defeats the 
purpose of having a break in the first 
place. Students  as well as professors 
 need breaks; especially in an envi
ronment where people work as hard as 
they do here at Carnegie Mellon. If pro
fessors do not start to make adjust
ments to their schedules, perhaps the 
University administration should step 
in and make a policy concerning work 
over break. However, academic depart
ments and professors should take the 
initiative first and work with the stu
dents so that when they return from 
breaks they are rested and ready to 
tackle the rest of the semester.
GSA explains priorities
Editor:
The Graduate Student Assembly was 
cited as not participating in the fund
ing of the Blues Traveler concert for 
Homecoming weekend [CMU Comes 
Together to Fund Concert, 10/16]. 
The issue came up for approval at the 
GSA monthly meeting on October 4, 
and was voted down by a majority of 
the assembly for one main reason. The 
generally accepted view of the GSA 
representatives was that graduate stu
dents as a whole would benefit from 
the $5,000 being spent in a different 
manner. The consensus of the assem
bly was that most graduate students 
would not recognize Blues Traveler, 
although a popular group in the US. 
Also, few alumni of graduate programs 
return to campus for Homecoming 
weekend, unlike those of the under
graduate program.
Overall, graduate student interest in 
the program was deemed to be low, 
especially given the scheduled time 
was during mid-semester break. The 
location of the concert on the lawn 
area also allowed the general public to 
attend the performance at the expense 
of CMU students.
Although we hope that the concert 
was a success and realize that some 
graduate students enjoyed the concert, 
the use of graduate student funds for
this event was not viewed as a priority.
Deanna Matthews 
Liaison Officer 
Graduate Student Assembly
Give us insight on Intel
Editor:
I would like to begin by thanking you 
for your continued coverage of the pro
posed Intel Solutions Center in the base
ment of the University Center. Over the 
past two weeks, many students have 
expressed their opinions to both the 
University administration and to Student 
Government. After some review and revi
sion, the Office of the Dean of Student 
Affairs was able to release a list of fre
quently asked questions regarding the 
proposal. It is available at h ttp://www. andrew. emu. edu/~ss2p/FAQ _Intel_sheet.htm. .
I do want to comment specifically on 
the article [Students Voice Opinions on 
Intel Coming to CMU, 10/16] for which I 
was interviewed. The manner in which 
some of my statements were presented 
may cause your readers to misunderstand 
them. There is no question that the main 
focus of this institution is academics, and 
that a large portion of resources will be 
dedicated to them. However, that does 
not mean that student activities and orga
nizations can be ignored.
The administration estimates that,-ini 
the absence of the Intel deal, they would i 
be unable to allocate funds towards the! 
renovation of the University Center base
ment for at least the next ten years. While! 
this disappoints me, I have to accept it' 
an accurate statement, barring a spirited-' 
fundraising effort by students..Therefore,i 
I believe that if the fundamental notion of* 
a business operating on this campus can* 
be accepted by the campus community, 
and ifwe can work with the administra
tion to address the immediate and future' 
space needs of students, this proposed 
deal will be the lesser of two evils.
I have spoken with many students who  
feel frustration that the administration is: 
once again ignoring students or that the 
deal is being kept quiet to minimize stu
dent input. I do not believe this hasoccurred. It is still a proposal. The admin
istration has spent the last several weeks: 
asking for student input. The details of the 
deal have been presented in the most pub
lic venues on campus. A number of forums 
and meetings have been held on the topic. 
If you feel that you have not had an oppor
tunity to express your opinion and influ
ence the decision, here is your opportuni
ty: e-mail your Student Senators (scs-sena- tors+, hss-senators+, etc.) or Graduate 
Student Assembly Representatives Qittp://www. andrew. emu. edu/~gsa/repli st.html).
Marcin Jeske
SCS Student Senator
CMU should let Intel inside, reap benefits
^ 'Ibk
Sean M. Waters
Intel and the University 
have been working on an 
agreement to allow Intel to 
temporarily house a new 
Business Solution Center in 
the basement of the 
University Center as part of 
Carnegie Mellons commit
ment to attract businesses to 
Pittsburgh. This arrange
ment  still tentative  has 
upset some members of the 
campus community.
In the 11 October issue of INPGH, electrical and comput
er engineering doctoral stu
dent Reed Taylor expressed 
his views that students should 
be selfish: At the end of three 
years, 89% of the current stu
dent population will be gone. 
So theres no real incentive 
[for most students] to support 
the move.
Taylors first comment is 
dead on. Most of the student 
body will not gain immediate
gratification from the Intels 
presence on the campus. But 
Taylor does not give the stu
dent body enough credit: 
Most students at Carnegie 
Mellon care about future gen
erations of students, as well as 
the future of the University.
What many naysayers fail to 
acknowledge is the fact that 
future generations of students 
will benefit from the Intel pro
posal. Currently the basement 
of the UC is unusable: It lacks 
heating, ventilation, electrici
ty, floors, and fire protection. 
Dean of Student Affairs, 
Michael Murphy has made it 
clear that there is no money to 
renovate that area in the next 
few years. So lets look at the 
situation objectively and real
istically.
Intel will spend approxi
mately two million dollars to 
renovate nine thousand to fif
teen thousand square feet of 
space into a usable office area. 
Intel wishes to occupy this 
space with a maximum of ten 
employees for three years 
while a permanent Pittsburgh 
location can be established. At
the end of the three-year con
tract, Intel will have the option 
to stay for an additional two 
years if a permanent location 
is not yet ready. When Intel 
leaves, the space will be 
turned back to the University 
for student use.
Certainly the University 
community can put up with 
eight or so employees for five 
years, in return for up to fif
teen thousand square feet of 
additional student space. To 
turn Intel away is just plain 
stupid: The protesters are
shooting themselves in the 
foot, so to speak, by opposing 
some much-needed campus 
improvement.
Opponents of the proposal 
have a few unfounded con
cerns, all of them easily dis
pelled. For one, Intel will not 
have special access to 
University resources or intel
lectual property. They will be 
treated the same as if they had 
an office on Craig Street.
Also, there will not be 
extremely visible Intel adver
tising  Intel has agreed that 
the only signage will be imme
diately outside of their space. 
We will not have 150-ft projec
tions flashing on the exterior 
walls like the ones recently 
approved for Mellon Arena, 
Most students probably will-] 
not even know that Intel is in; 
the basement.
I find it hard to believe that; 
some of the most vocal opposi
tion to the proposal comes; 
from the students and organi
zations that will benefit the; 
most in the long run. This is,; 
not a complex proposal with: 
an ulterior motive. Its a smv| 
pie business decision.
Logical thinkers who take a? 
step back from the scare ta.c-j 
tics being used by the opposi
tion will realize that this is &j 
great proposal that will bene
fit the students and the; 
University as a whole. And 
those benefits will not just be.- 
realized in the next few years-. 
They will have a positive effect 
on the University for decades; 
to come.
Sean M. Waters is a first-year H&SS student. He welcomes (ill: responsible replies to his article.
Solution services on, off campus are a joke
Brad Grantz
It appears that complaining is a right bestowed upon the Carnegie Mellon pupil whose parents foot a tuition bill rising faster than the number ofsanc^ timonious, political blow-hards courting the all-important western Pennsylvania vote in 2000. Given this privilege...
What ever happened to 
companies that sold products?
The more and more advertise
ments I see for companies are 
for solutions and ideas. 
Moneymaking machines large 
and small once were selfenterprising, trying to deter
mine what new products or 
innovations could make their 
company and respective prod
ucts more competitive. In the 
self-indulged new economy 
(the most creative appellation 
since the old economy), cor
porations provide services to 
customers who appear to be 
unable to figure out exactly 
why they need them. Ergo,
the company gives their 
patron the best cure-all since 
Grandfathers homemade 
elixir.
Take for instance Compaq
with the wonders of portable 
technology, you can have 
your big startup idea any; 
where. Even in the back of the 
van. Thank God for Compaq
What ever happened to companies 
that sold products ?
Corporation. They no longer 
sell computers. They peddle 
their wares under the guise of 
inspiration technology. 
Compaq repeatedly douses the 
public with the concept that
Wed be light-years ahead if 
Steve Jobs had the luxury 10 
think in the back of vans. Can 
you imagine how advanced p 
commerce would be if Bill 
See SERVICE, page A?

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 30, 2000
Parking Services provides students with tickets, not service
SERVICE, from page A6 
Gates didnt have to innovate in a cramped, 
litter-strewn dormitory, but rather in the 
boiling sun of the Nevada desert?
Weve really advanced beyond the point 
of no return. At the outset of the school 
year, CMU Parking Enforcement decided 
the name no longer reflected the purpose 
of this venerable campus institution. The 
talking heads of CMU Retail Services felt 
the man in the look-alike police cruiser 
would be better suited to being referred to 
as Parking Services. Never one to compro
mise my standards of journalistic integrity, I 
placed a call to the corporate office of 
Parking Services to find what services the 
Parking department could provide me with.
Unfortunately, it seems the receptionist was 
unable to list the services your friendly 
parking serviceman could supply the CMU 
community. She related that Parking 
Services could not speak for itself and 
instead referred me to the service providers 
of Retail. What a dynamic division Parking 
must be to not only enforce those violating 
the strict regulations of the UC turnaround, 
Mudge House driveway, and the Margaret 
Morrison street parking, but to provide stu
dents, faculty, and visitors alike with ser
vices! Therefore, remember that the next 
time you stop for 15 minutes in the back of 
Hunt Library and receive a yellow slip say
ing you owe CMU $50, dont think of it as a 
ticket. Look through the eyes of the new
economy and say to yourself, If Parking 
Services was able to do such an innovative 
and sincere job in providing me with an 
parking solution, its probably only a matter 
of time before they execute a hostile 
takeover of that bastion of inefficiency 
known as the HUB.
It seems that Parking Services may be just 
behind the ever-changing tide of new econ
omy monikers. Administrative depart
ments really provide us with solutions. 
Perhaps the department known as 
Counseling and Psychological Services 
could extend their efforts to lifelong solu
tions. Illicit and prescription drugs, specifi
cally hallucinogens, could solve a great deal 
of the mental anguish on campus. For the
most severe cases, physician-assisted suicide 
might be the optimal solution, thereby 
allowing Health Services to partake. And, as 
always, religion could be incorporated to try 
to resolve any emotional, psychosomatic, or 
mental disturbances. The coordination 
between departments could be established 
using new e-commerce technologies. It 
looks like the CMU Intel branch has its first 
test project lined up. Final bad pun incor
porated into all fine columns: Just dont 
allow Parking Services to interfere with this 
drive toward sanity.
The Bard thinks CMU Parking Enforcement is the most wasteful department on campus and he refuses to pay his parking ticket.
The election might give voters options, but Gore gives the world
But, seriously...
By: Sean Mintus
So the elections are merely a week away. 
The time has come to choose a new presi
dent, someone who will bravely lead our 
country headfirst into the brick wall known 
as the 21st century. Indeed, our new chief 
will act as the countrys moral compass, one 
who, in times of trouble, can be trusted to 
guide us in the course of action least likely to 
better the overall situation, just as a presi
dent is expected to do.
But, seriously... this is important stuff. 
Honestly, if I can manage to squelch a little 
time in between reorganizing-my sock draw
er and making some tasty lemonade, I fully 
intend to run on out and vote. The question 
remains: For whom should I vote?
Well, for the past year or so, candidates A1 
Gore and George W. W Bush have inundat
ed us with countless reasons, three and a half 
of them true, for why we should vote one or 
the other into office. Thus, despite the best 
efforts of everyones favorite Socialist, little 
Ralphie Nader, it seems as though this elec
tion will once again come down to Democrat 
vs. Republican, Jackass vs. Overweight 
Wrinkly Grey Mass, idiot vs. slighdy bigger 
Texan idiot.
Initially, I was torn. Given the impeccable 
credentials of each candidate, not to mention 
their tendencies to do and say some of the 
most asinine things in the history of politics, 
I didnt have much to aid me in my quest for 
an honest, rational, principled conclusion.
It wasnt until our cherished doof of a Vice 
President offered up perhaps the least-sensi
ble, doltish, moronic proclamation in the 
long and recondite annals of doltish, moronic proclamations. Yes, ladies and gentlemen 
and CS majors, A1 Gore took credit for invent
ing the Internet.
At first, I was completely taken aback by 
the audacity of this claim. But then, after 
thinking on it for some 
time, I came to realize 
that I was completely 
taken aback by the 
audacity of this claim.
A1 Gores self-serving 
words drove me to look 
deeper into not only 
this particular issue, but 
to examine closely all of 
the other amazing 
things that he, the most 
boring individual on 
the face of the planet, 
has accomplished.
So have you really 
heard about this A1 
Gore guy? Gore is a 
Jedi! He can shoot laser 
beams out of his eyes 
too! Remember El 
Nio? Al Gore, baby!
Gore can fly. Gore has 
been holding his breath 
since 1987 and he has 
no intention of exhaling any time soon. In 
Junior High, Gore had a beard ... and a Wife! 
Gore won the Battle of the Bulge. Gore flew 
the first space shuttle. Gore built the 
Parthenon. Gore discovered electricity and 
Ben Franklin. Gore wrote the Constitution, 
proofread it, and then kicked John Hancocks 
ass for taking up too much space. Gore freed 
Willy. Gore carries the tree to Rockefeller 
Center every year. Gore can drink a sixer and 
smoke.a carton ail at once. Gore is the one
pulling your strings. Gore trained Richard 
Simmons. Gore escaped from Alcatraz just 
for fun. Gore handed David the stone. Gore 
secretly sold his drawings to Walt Disney and 
used the profits to fund the Allied effort in
photo courtesy of Steve Wardell
Columnist Sean Mintus displays a message for Vice President Al Gore.
World War II. Gores ark was too big so God 
had to implement plan B. Gore was the sec
ond gunman on the grassy knoll. Gore didnt 
write .the Bible, but he helped. Gore was 
Charlie. Gore was kind enough not to get 
angry when Bill Gates stole his idea. Gore 
invented the wheel. Gore controls the weath
er. Gore climbed Everest without food, water, 
oxygen, rope or shoes. Gore makes those lit
tle wooden umbrellas that get put in tropical 
drinks. Gore is immortal. Gore can repro
duce asexually. Gore can clean and jerk just 
under 400... tons. Gore hates soccer moms. 
Gore can regenerate severed limbs. Gore 
knows where Jimmy Hoffa is. Gore dated 
Marilyn Monroe - Kennedy was her rebound. 
Gore fights evil. Gore cant believe he ate 
the whole thing. Gore coined the 
phrase. Gore flosses daily. Gore 
dodges tall buildings and leaps speeding 
bullets in a single bound. Gore doesnt 
whine, and would appreciate it if you 
didnt either. Gore was the fifth Beade. 
Gore just wants to have fun. Gore played 
a small part in an off-Broadway show. 
Gore knows how to juggle. Gore sup
ports Americas shift to the metric sys
tem. Gore knits. Gore named the plan
ets. Gore parted the Red, Black, Indian, 
Mediterranean, and Adriatic Seas. Gore 
owns Ben and Jerry, Penn and Teller, 
Hall and Oates, Simon and Garfunkel, 
Laurel and Hardy, Cheech and Chong, 
Beavis and Butthead, the Mamas and 
the Papas.
Therefore, despite the fact that the 
thought of putting this dimwit in 
office scares me more than the notion 
of Bill Clinton acting as headmaster of 
a small Catholic girls school, I think 
we should all vote for him. After all, at 
least four years from now, when the coun
try is in a recession, public education is in 
ruins, and the collective taxpayer anus has 
grown to roughly the size of the hole in 
the side of our fine presidents head, at 
least well be able to look back and say 
oops.
Sean Mintus is a sophomore Professional and Creative Writing major. In all honesty, he thinks thatyou should he president.
Seattles sewer problems help clear up U.S. Presidential rat race
Christian Restifo
Despite its treatment of tempo
rary workers and the anti-trust law
suit, Microsoft still probably draws 
in at least a few Carnegie Mellon 
students each year. Of course, relo
cating to Seattle means that 
besides dealing with weather and a 
football team both worse than 
Pittsburghs, you must also contend 
with the annual sewer rat problem.
Driven by hunger and prompt
ed by lower water levels, these 
sewer rats of Seattle make unin
vited appearances in peoples toi
lets. Yes, these ambitious rodents 
actually crawl up your sewer 
pipes and into your toilet. Should 
someone not wish to handle the 
rat, the options are limited to 
either calling an exterminator or 
weighting down the toilet seat. In 
the latter case, one can either 
wait for the rat to leave or flush 
the toilet repeatedly to drown it.
Be warned, however, that if you 
do drown the rat, People for the 
Ethical Treatment of Animals 
(PETA) will almost certainly 
make fools of themselves by con
ducting some inane billboard 
campaign against you. Luckily, 
few people will take PETA seri
ously. But I digress....
Given this crisis, yours truly 
decided to contact the major 
Presidential candidates to see what 
they would do about this important 
issue. I now provide for you their 
responses.
Bush: The Clinton/Gore admin
istration had eight years to solve 
this rat problem and they did noth
ing. Its time for new leadership to 
do whats right. Ill end this parti
san bickering by reaching out to 
Republicans and reform-minded 
Democrats. As a leader, I have a 
clear vision and .a strategy. Because 
thats what a leader does. And Ill 
have the Secretary of the Interior 
lead a committee to find out what 
that vision is.
If youre a single mother of two 
making $22,000 a year, you face a
larger toilet rat problem than a 
lawyer making $220,000. And let 
me tell you something, with my 
new tax cut, six million more 
Americans will be able to afford 
second toilets that they can go to if 
there is a rat in the first one.
Gore: I invented the toilet, and 
I want to fight for people who use 
it. Let me tell you what I see. I see 
a future where all Americans, 
men and women, black and 
white, Latino and Asian, rich' and 
poor, Jew and Muslim, can use a 
toilet without fear of a rat. But 
Im going to do more than that. 
Im going to protect our Earth for 
our children by placing the sewer 
rat on the Endangered Species 
list.
You know, Tipper and I have 
long cared about this issue. When 
I was in the Senate, my daughter 
brought home a sewer rat. Tipper 
went through the roof. But you 
know what she did? She helped 
pass a law to require parental 
warnings on rats to not place them 
in toilets. And thats what this 
election is about. Helping to pro
tect our children.
Nader: It doesnt matter who 
you vote for, because neither Bush 
nor Gore is going to solve the prob
lem, Theyre both beholden unto 
the rodent-military-industrial com
plex. We need more consumer pro
tection in the form of rat-proof toi
lets. Remember that a vote for Gore 
is a vote for toilet rats because both 
he and Bush receive millions of dol
lars in campaign contributions 
from toilet manufacturers. These 
manufacturers know they could 
easily make rat-proof toilets, but 
theyre buying access for their own 
greedy self-interests.
Buchanan (Reform Party candi
date): We all know that these are 
Mexican and Canadian rats whove 
illegally crossed the border because 
of NAFTA. We need to strengthen 
our borders to keep out these rats 
who come here only to get on wel
fare rolls and take jobs away from 
hard working American rats. 
Phillips (Constitution Party can
didate): The Republicans are no 
better than the Democrats on this 
issue. Its blatantly obvious that
this toilet rat problem is the result 
of the homosexual agenda and the 
governments subsidy of this 
deviant sexual behavior.
McReynolds (Socialist Party can
didate): For too long the capitalist, 
forces of America have.controlled 
the means of toilet production. 
Workers and consumers must rise 
up to these challenges to protect 
themselves and the oppressed 
sewer rat. For these reasons we call 
for social ownership and democrat
ic control of toilet resources, for a 
guarantee to all of the right to par
ticipate in toilet use, and to a fair 
share of toilet products, in accor
dance with individual needs.
Browne (Libertarian Party candi
date): If government had never 
regulated the size of toilets in the 
first place, people could flush the 
rats down the drain and forget 
about it.
Christian M. Restifo is a first-year Flex-Time MBA student at GSIA. No rats were harmed in the writing of this column, hut hes sure PETA will protest anyway.
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Melton's Student Newspaper Since igo6
SENIOR STAFF Emily Landes
STAFFWRITERS Sara Amodio, Neil Babra, Cliff Chien, Krissy Choi, Cam Crews, Rob Cullen, Frank J. Fleming, Ryan Friedman, Debra Halpern, LaRita Hamilton, Cynthia Kos, Erin Lucas, Sean Mintus, Damian Olesnycky, Peter Patterson, Srinivas Pullela, Jennifer Resick, Christian Restifo, Surya Singh, Erin Szeto, Lynn Tao, Preston TYeichel, Sriram Vaidhyanathan
ARTMatthew Blum, Lindsay Clark, Jamie Divine, Adam Grossi, Reagan Heller, Gabriel Sabourin, Alissa Taylor
COMICSMartin Hock, James Kenney, Neal Martin, Jason Slater
PHOTOKatie Aerni, Erica Barnes, Jeff Cullers, Anthony DAuria, Anjanelle Delancey, .Emily Gensheimer, Matthew Lanken, Nuri Miller, Michael Raisman, Matthew Trentacoste
DARKROOMEric Barker, Peter Wang
PRODUCTIONEve Chen, John Davin, Serena Lam, Douglas Yung
COPYStacey Becker, Joyce Boss, Kristin Lala, Lorelei Laird, Meredith Powers, Emma Rehm, Julie Watt
JUNIOR STAFF David Anderson, Sharad Bajaj, Andy Baker, Avinash Baliga, Clinton Brownley, Kevin Burns, Yang Cai, Thomas Capasso, Brad Cohen, Michael Cook, Dave del Rosario, Dave DiFilippo, Aseem Garg, Ryan Hamilton, Melissa Horne, John Hursh, Lirona Katzir, Christopher Kim, Anish Kumar, Elizabeth Levin, Ann Lewis, To Han Lu, Charles Martin, Andrew McKeon, Julia Myers, Jodi Poniewaz, Paul Richelmi, Jennifer Schaupp, Danny A. Silitonga, Marissa Staller, Adam Steele, Sabrina Small, Vivek Sridharan, Tifanie Tiberio, Cory Tong, Sean Waters, Daniel Wood
The Tartan is the student newspaper of 
Carnegie Mellon University. It is a weekly 
newspaper published by students during the 
fall and spring semesters, at no cost to mem
bers of the University community. It is print
ed by Western Pennsylvania Printing, Inc. 
Subscriptions are available for the semester 
or academic year. The editorials appearing at 
the beginning of the opinion section are the 
official opinion of The Tartan editorial board. 
Columns and political cartoons are the opin
ions of individual creators. The Tartan 
reserves the right to reject or condense any 
column or political cartoon. Letters to the 
Editor are opinions of authors who are usual
ly, but not necessarily, members of the 
University community. A letter intended for 
publication must be signed and include the 
writer's address and phone number for verifi
cation. Names may be withheld upon 
request. The Tartan requests that letters be 
no longer than 350 words. The Tartan 
reserves the right to condense or reject any 
letter. Letters to the Editor must be submit
ted by 5 pm the Thursday before publica
tion. Copyright  2000 by The Tartan. The 
Tartan editorial board reserves the right to 
withhold from publication any copy it deems 
unfit for publication. Office: University 
Center Room 314. Phone: 412/268-2111. 
Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/Carnegie 
Mellon University/Pittsburgh, PA 15213- 
3890.
Email: tartan@andrew.cmu.edu 
Funded in part by your Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress 
ISSN#:0890-3107.
The Tartan is a member of 
the Associated Press.
Steve Clifford
First-year student 
Chemical Engineering
Bush - Oil slick; Gore - Bill Clinton; 
Nader - Hippie from Woodstock with 
circular purple glasses and flowers.
Greta Polo
Senior
Communication Design
George Bush should get a fairy out
fit.
Jared Smolens
Senior
Electrical & Chemical Engineering
Bush should be mashed potatoes. 
Gore should be himself. I like him the 
way he is.
Samina Akbari
Senior
Art & Social History 
They should all be giant lollipops.
Nate Stimmel
Junior
Bachelors of Humanities & Arts 
They should go as each other.
Halloweens coming up this week, and the elections are almost here. To see what O Ir D ^ T. '| T. DI M o T. 'g
would happen if we combined these two events, we asked: * * LIlwUll w vT llilUll
What should the candidates be for Halloween?
Compiled by Sara Stille 
Photos by Behnam Farahpour

---------------------------------------------------

Phi Beta Kappa members of the university 
community extend their congratulations to the 
following students, who were initiated into 
Upsilon of Pennsylvania, Carnegie Mellon's 
chapter of the Phi Beta Kappa Society, on Tuesday, 
October 24, 2000.
Bachelor ofHumanties and Arts Program:Carrie A. Schneider
College of Humanities & Social Sciences:Tara Dwivedi Robert Jarrod Moss Russell David O'Lare Jeffrey Ryan Thibert
Mellon College of Science:Zalenda Cyrille Nicholas Charles Fitzkee Rebecca Lynn Frederick Christopher Alan Noser Duane E. Prasuhn, Jr.Scott Allen Vignon
School of Computer Science:Elena M. Balestreire Michael Beatty Donohue Simon F. Goldsmith Adam Christopher Wierman
Get Ready For 
Vour Most 
Refreshing Course
Coca-Cola Company is Looking for a 
student rep on this campus. It's a 
great job with a great company on a 
great campus.
To be a Coca-Cola Campus Marketing Manager, you 
must be a full-time student and be totally tuned 
in to all aspects of campus life. You'll need good 
marketing skills, as well as strong organizational 
abilities. You'll be called on to identify marketing 
opportunities and to present, sell, and promote 
Coca-Cola brands on campus.
If you're up to the challenge and are looking 
for real world experience, visit us at 
www.edventurepartners.com/cmm for all the details, 
job requirements and application procedures.Greater ink _ , Great Job.
Each Campus Marketing Manager will be employed by the local Coca-Cola bottler, which is an equal opportunity employer.
T999-The Coca-Cola Company. Coca-Cola," the Dynamic Ribbon device, the Contour Bottle design, the Red Disk Icon are registered trademarks of The Coca-Cola Company.
GET SOM ACON
drew
barrymare
HWIIJ on your student loan
and this is where pr
or riBng renom, go to wwwJtfnrKng com""get-some-action.com
IMOVEMBEI
 sin111 Bill ill! IISIsaw ye cam/gaaswimA TCMF.bsD.
Vour student loan is nothing to take lightly. When you skip payments or default on your
loan, you risk your chance for credit cards, car loans, and mortgages. T)YTJ7 A A 
So don't play around; if repayment gets to he too much, PHEAA can help. /if ft/LA
Learn more or call 1.800.328.0355 creatingAccess u>Ediuuaon
jii

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 30, 2000
You'd 
better get that idea out of your head!
Bryan Kaplan/Photo Editor
tartan midfielder Brian Henry is guarded by Spartan forward Russ Mclntire. Henry scored 
ihe Tartans second goal in their 4-2 win over Case Western Reserve on Saturday night.
SOCCER, from page A12
found its way past the goalie and ended up
in the left corner of the goal.
Up until this point, the aggressive Tartan 
defense had held the Case players to very 
little on the offensive end; meanwhile, the 
offense was constantly pressing and made 
several shot attempts and close free kicks. 
The home fans were noisy and occasionally 
taunted the Spartan players. But the 
Spartans would have their say.
With 9:44 left in the period, Spartan for
ward Dan Leach raced down the left side
line, Tartan defenders on his heels. Leach 
snuck in a cross direcdy in front of the goal 
to trailing forward Russ Mclntire, who put 
the ball past Tartan goalie Tom Dougherty. 
The goal made the score 2-1, Tartans.
Carnegie Mellon answered back less than 
six minutes later, when Tepper scored on 
the other end. He took a shot from the left 
side, which was blocked by a Case defender. 
However, the ball was merely redirected, 
and made it by Chenevey for the Tartans 
third goal of the half. The goal was assisted 
by sophomore midfielder James Chung.
The Tartans slowly got back into the 
attack as the second half started, and got 
their first serious chance from Crummy, 
who received the ball inside the box, but
was unable to convert because he was sur
rounded by defenders.
Two minutes later, Tepper launched a free 
lack towards the goal from about 35 yards 
out on the left side. Senior midfielder 
David Zupon came in from the right and 
volleyed a shot that Chenevey never had a 
chance on. The Tartans went up, 4-1.
The Spartans were able to make the score 
4-2 with a goal by Leach with 16:40 
remaining in the game, but the Spartans got 
no more chances after that. The Tartans 
threatened to add to their total again with a 
few minutes left in the game, but the score 
stood until the final buzzer.
The Tartans record improved to 13-2 
overall, and 6-1 in the UAA. Those six con
ference victories gave the Tartans the con
ference title, and an automatic NCAA berth, 
over formidable UAA rivals such as the 
University of Rochester (4-2 UAA) and 
Washington University (4-3 UAA).
The Tartans had been focused on every 
UAA game they played this season, accord
ing to Tepper, who said the purpose of the 
Case game was winning the UAA, getting 
the bid, and gaining confidence for the 
tournament.
Every UAA game is huge, said Tepper. 
Theyre the best teams were going to be
playing.
This idea was no more apparent than in 
the game at Rochester last weekend, in 
which the Tartans won 2-1 in the final min
utes.
The Yellow-Jackets, the tenth-ranked 
team in Division III, were on a five-game 
win streak and were handed their second 
UAA loss of the season.
In addition, the Tartans were without 
two-time player of the week Hibshman, 
who had been given a red card in the previ
ous game against Brandeis, the Tartans sole 
UAA loss.
The unexpected fortunes of this season 
can be attributed to the surprisingly good 
play of the first-year defenders, and the 
strong play of Dougherty in goal.
Were a totally different team than we 
were last year and the year before, said 
Tepper. . .but theyre picking it up... this is 
the best season Ive been in.
The Tartans will play their last game of 
the season, against Washington and 
Jefferson, on Tuesday, and get back to work 
on preparing for the NCAA tournament, to 
be held during the second week of 
November,
Its basically hard work thats gotten us 
through this season, said Tepper.
Tartans avoid suffering third loss in a row Swim teams start new
FOOTBALL, from page A12 
advantage of its ability to move the ball.
After moving to the Rochester 30 from its own 27, 
the Tartan machine got stuck in reverse. On three 
Consecutive plays, The Tartans were penalized for 
holding twice and lost a fumble on the third play, 
(uining an excellent drive. The first half ended in a 
3-3 tie.
While the Tartan and Yellow Jacket offenses 
struggled to produce big plays, both defenses 
matched each other big play for big play.
The Rochester defense featured a phenomenal 
performance by outside linebacker Lance Ramer. 
Ramer tallied 23 total thckles (17 unassisted) and 
accounted for five of the Yellow Jacket's seven team 
sacks.
The Tartan defense featured strong performances 
by inside linebackers Nick Zitelli (five tackles, one 
sack) and Mike Hubbert (seven tackles, one inter
ception). They teamed with linemen Brian Lenhart 
{six tackles, one sack), Ben Zaroukian (three tack
les, two for loss) and a rejuvenated secondary to 
hold Rochester to 182 total yards.
The Tartan defense forced an early exit by 
Rochester starting quarterback, Jeff Piscitelli, who 
left in the third quarter with a hand injury. Piscitelli 
finished with six completions on 15 attempts for 55 
yards. He was pressured often and intercepted
Tartan Notes:
Coming off consecutive loses to UAA foes 
Washington and Chicago, the team avoided its first 
three game losing streak since 1974.
The Tartans were able to overcome the Rochester 
Yellow Jackets for their fifth win of the season.
Whos next
Carnegie Mellon (5-3, 2-2 UAA) vs. 
Grove City College (4-4, 3-1 
Presidents), 1:30 pm WRCT (88.3fm)
Last meeting: 1997, CMU 7, Grove 
City 26. CMU leads the series 
23-15-2.
The skinny: CMU finishes its season 
with two non-conference games, hop
ing to avoid their first four-loss season 
since 1988 when they were 5-4-1.
Watch for: Grove Citys R.J. Bowers, 
the NCAAs all-time leading rusher 
with 6,999 yards (720 more than 
Division I-As Ricky Williams). 
Bowers broke the record last week vs. 
Bethany. Two weeks ago, Bowers was 
stopped for under 100 yards rushing 
for the first time since 1997 when the 
Tartans held him to 99 yards.
Result: Monday Morning QB cant 
bear the thought. Grove City 24, 
CMU 17.
season with victories
SWIMMING, from page A12 
second-place finish in the tough 
200-yard backstroke competition. 
Williams, a sophomore chemical 
engineer, got into the groove again 
by winning both the 500- and 1000- 
yard freestyles. First-year design 
student Abby Sturges was solid in 
the sprint events, posting a 26.15 
seconds in the 50-yard freestyle and 
bettering 58 seconds in the 100- 
yard freestyle.
Youngsters again represented 
well for the Tartan men. First-year 
materials science engineer Brian 
Jucha kicked his way to fast times in 
the sprints, winning the 50-yard 
freestyle and getting touched out by 
senior Bobby Gallagher in thelOOyard by .01 seconds. Schmitt 
repeated the previous week's per
formance with wins in the 500- and 
1000-yard freestyles. Other win
ners on the mens side included 
McCarthy in the 200-yard freestyle 
and 200-yard backstroke, mens co
captain George Heidinger in the 
200-yard butterfly, and sophomore 
Adam Rousseau in the 200-yard 
individual medley. Rousseau swam 
to a personal best of 2:03.96 in the 
event, keyed by a strong front half 
of his race.
My strongest strokes are at the 
front half of the IM so I try to go out 
hard and die like a man, said 
Rousseau.
Belowich noticed the impressive 
performances turned in by the firstyears and sophomores.
The lower-classmen are not con
tent to let the upper class lead the 
way, said Belowich. They get 
involved cheering for their team
mates, getting psyched for races, 
and it is reflected in the way that 
they have been swimming.
The Tartans are on their way to a 
fast start, with records falling in 
their wake. The Tartans hope to 
continue their successes next week 
at Rochesters Harvest Relay Meet.
A SUITE FOR LESS THAN
A HOTEL ROOM
Enter Pittsburgh's Business Plan Competition.
Have a great idea for a new business or product? Then put it on paper and enter 
it in EnterPrize-Pittsburgh's second annual business plan competition, which offers 
up to $50,000 in prize money to the winning team.
This contest is a terrific opportunity to meet venture capitalists and other 
business specialists and to leam how to write a business plan. With the help of 
EnterPrize's support network, you'll also get the input, the insight, and maybe 
even the financing you need to help get your idea off the ground.
For more details and to register, come to the kick-off events 
featuring special presentations by local entrepreneurs on November 1 
and November 8. To learn more, visit www.enterprizepgh.org.
Then get ready to turn that great idea into a great success. EfTTERPRIZG
Pittsburgh
Technology
Council
ORGANIZED BY CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY, D1 JQUESNE UNIVERSITY, INDIANA UNIVERSITY 
OF PENNSYLVANIA, MCKINSEY & COMPANY, MORGAN, LEWIS & B0CKIUS LLP, PITTSBURGH 
TECHNOLOGY COUNCIL, SETON HILL COLLEGE, UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH, WASHINGTON AND 
JEFFERSON COLLEGE, WAYNESBURG COLLEGE
UNDERWRITERS: HEINZ ENDOWMENTS; MORGAN, LEWIS & B0CKIUS LLP
SPONSORS: MCKESS0NHB0C AUTOMATED HEALTHCARE; PNC VENTUREBANK; nPPINS FOUNDATION
Tartans claim UAA in 4-2 win over Spartans; heading to NCAAs
Elegantly famished one- or two-bedroom apartment suites include an equipped kitchen, 
fluffy linens, TV, VCR, cable movies, free local phone service, and reserved parking. 
Conveniently located at 5405 Fifth Avenue, Shadyside. Two blocks from Walnut Streets 
145 fashionable shops and 12 delicious restaurants. One mile to CMU/Pitt/Hospitals.
DAILY, WEEKLY, MONTHLY RATES
5405 Fifth Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15232
(412) 441-4444
http: //www. shadysideinn .com

---------------------------------------------------


Merck is where I can have the 
greatest effect on human life
Breakthrough medicines. Treatments that offer a new lease 
on life. At Merck, improving patient health isn't just what we 
do. It's who we are, sharing a passion for life that brings out 
the best in a diverse workforce of 60,000 people. That's why 
Merck enjoys over $32 billion in annual sales as one of 
America's largest pharmaceutical companies, while being 
honored by Fortune as one of "The 100 Best Companies To 
Work For in America."
Join us to learn more about IT Career Opportunities in: 
Merck Information Services
On-campus interviews for full-time positions 
will be held on November 17, 2000.
Opportunities exist for:
Application & Web Designers & Developers, 
E-commerce & Technology Specialists, Systems 
Architects & Engineers, Analysts, Network & Server 
Specialists & Administrators, Computational, 
Mathematical, & Information Scientists, Technology 
Support Specialists, Database Architects & 
Administrators, and Process & Control Engineers
Sign up for our campus interviews through 
your school's career services. If you are 
unable to meet with us at our events listed 
above, please contact cmu_is@merck.com 
We are an Equal Opportunity Employer, 
M/F/D/V.
For further information about IT Career 
Opportunities, please visit us online at: 
www.merck.com/careers
M MERCK
COMMITTED TO BRINGING OUT THE BEST IN MEDICINE
MAKE
YOUR
MARK!
FALL 2000 
Computer Education 
Student Seminar Series
Classes are FREE!
Access FundamentalsPhotoShop Fundamentals
November 7 & 9November 1 & 2
6:00 - 8:00 pm5:30 - 7:00 pm
Cyert PC ClusterCyert Mac Cluster
PowerPoint
Excel Formulas,October 18
Functions & Charting6:00 - 8:00 pm
October 26Cyert PC Cluster
6:00 - 8:00 pmOR
Cyert PC ClusterOctober 30
3:00 - 5:00 pm
Cyert PC Cluster
HTML Fundamentals,
Tables & GraphicsUNIX Scripting
November 1 & 2October 24, 26, 31 &
5:00 - 7:00 pmNovember 2
Cyert PC Cluster10:30- 11:20 am
ORBaker140E
November 6,8,13 & 15OR
3:30 - 4:20 pmOctober 25, 27,
Baker140ENovember 1 & 3
3:30 - 4:20 pm
Baker140E
Carnegie Mellon,COMPUTITO SERVICES
www.cmu.edu/computing/csw
StudentGovernment
Elections
its your school, 
do something 
about it!
Monday, Tuesday. In front of Dohorty, in the lie if raining.
ss2p@ andrew. emu. edu

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 30, 2000Ail
Off-season brings questions of free agency Ice hockey opens new
year with 6-4 victory
A View From The Bleachers
by Matt Brun
For those of you that hadnt noticed  and, 
judging by the TV ratings, thats just about 
everyone  the World Series ended last week. 
For all the hype leading up to the Subway Series, 
it turned into the lowest-rated World Series in 
history, proving the point that outside of New 
Yorkers (and, admittedly, thats a lot of people), 
Absolutely nobody cared about the Yankees-Mets 
tnatch-up.
For most baseball fans, this was just another 
VVorld Series that our home team didnt make it 
to. I highly doubt that many fans in Boston, San 
Fiancisco, Chicago, Cleveland, or Atlanta (to 
name just a few big baseball towns) were inter
ested in seeing the Yankees beat up on the Mets. 
its not like this was the first-ever Subway Series, 
either. Back in the 50s when the Dodgers and 
Giants were still in the Big Apple, there were allNew York match-ups all the .time.
As for the games themselves, they just proved 
that, once again, the Mets didnt have what it 
takes to succeed late in the season. Though they 
3id make it further than just about everyone 
expected, their lack of clutch hitting left them 
with three one-run losses in the series. You cant 
expect to win it all if you dont win the close 
ones.
As for the Yankees ... well, forget the Yankees.
I hate the Yankees; I refuse to talk about the 
Yankees, even if they have won three straight 
championships. If any of you Yankees fans out 
there are upset by that, get over yourselves.
Given that Im not going to talk about the 
Series anymore, and since I recapped the 2000 
season in last weeks column, Ill end this years 
final installment of A View From the Bleachers 
with a look ahead at some of the key storylines 
heading into next season.
The biggest story, of course, will be free 
agency, as lots of big names will be expected to 
find new teams, and the new standard for 
salaries is going to end up absolutely astronomi
cal. With Torontos Carlos Delgado already hav
ing received a new four-year deal worth $68 mil
lion, Seattles Alex Rodriguez, Clevelands 
Manny Ramirez, and Baltimores Mike Mussina 
could all easily reach the $100 million mark:
Rodriguez is probably the biggest name out of 
this group, but also may be the most likely to stay 
with his current team. The Mariners proved this 
year that they are contenders even without Ken 
Griffey, Jr., and A-Rod could be one of those rare 
players who resigns with his current team for 
less money than he could get elsewhere if he 
thinks they have a legitimate chance at winning 
itall.
Ramirez is also a big time producer who would 
immediately help whatever team he ends up 
with. Though he and his agent both claim that he 
wants to stay in Cleveland, Ramirez has already 
turned down a five-year $75 million offer from 
the club and filed for free agency pretty much as 
soon as he possibly could.
The Indians found out this year that life with
out Ramirez is very painful, but general manag
er John Hart has a history of not giving in to play
ers demands for exorbitant salaries. The Indians 
are faced with a difficult decision, as re-signing 
Ramirez would most likely prohibit them from 
going after the big-time pitcher the team desper
ately needs. Another thought for the Indians 
staff to consider is that if he leaves Cleveland, 
Ramirez will most likely end up in his hometown 
qf;New York with the Yankees.
As the biggest pitcher on the free agent mar
ket this off-season, Mussina also filed for free
agency at the earliest possible moment. Mussina 
has been the Orioles ace throughout the 90s, 
pitching consistently spectacularly while the 
rest of the team crumbles around him. Given the 
current state of the franchise, its hard to imag
ine that Mussina would stay with Baltimore 
when given a chance to pitch for a contender. 
Just about every team in the majors would ben
efit from having him in their rotation; its just a 
matter of Mussina finding the right situation for 
him.
Another big name facing a big decision is
As for the Yankees... well, 
forget the Yankees. I hate 
the Yankees; I refuse to 
talk about the Yankees...
Detroits Juan Gonzalez. The Tigers mortgaged a 
large portion of their future by giving up several 
prospects for Gonzalez at the beginning of the 
season. Consistently a very productive hitter for 
Texas, Gonzalez struggled through an injuryfilled, sub-par year that could hurt his chances 
on the open market. If teams are willing to pay 
for his previous numbers, the price could quickly 
outpace the Tigers ability to re-sign him, but if 
his numbers this year scare off some of the high
er bidders, Detroit just may pull off a small coup 
and keep him.
Perhaps more than in any season in recent 
memory, player movement is going to play a 
huge role in who will be the favorite for the title 
next year. Aside from the big names on the mar
ket, almost all of this years contenders could 
change their fortunes completely with one key 
addition or departure.
The Yankees have some interesting choices to 
make as they have 11 potential free agents, 
including Denny Neagle, Paul ONeill, and David 
Cone. Cone had a horrible year, but losing both 
him and Neagle would create a big hole in the 
starting rotation. ONeill was huge in the World 
Series and has always. been a clutch hitter, 
though if the Yankees do get Ramirez, ONeill 
would probably become expendable.
Of course, since this is the Yankees, theres still
Matt Blum/Art Staff
the possibility that George Steinbrenner will just 
sign every free agent on the market and make it 
a moot point.
Seattles fate hinges solely on Rodriguez. If he 
decides to stay, the Mariners remain a contender, 
if he goes the way of Griffey, Seattle can say 
good-bye to the playoffs, much less a champi
onship.
Oakland and Chicago also face a tough off-sea
son. Both teams achieved success through a del
icate balance of young players and veterans that 
worked perfectly together. Any big shake-up to 
that balance could set these franchises back a 
few years apiece.
Although no National League team has any big 
name free agents this year, the contenders in the 
senior circuit have similar problems as those in 
the American League. The Mets are reportedly 
interested in signing Rodriguez, which would 
make their own star shortstop, Rey Ordonez, 
expendable. Though his season ended in May 
with a broken arm, Ordonez could still be very 
valuable as trade bait to bring in even more fire
power.
For their parts, the Braves and Cardinals are 
facing tough questions at first base. Atlanta must 
decide whether to bring back Andres Galarraga, 
the sentimental choice given his comeback from 
cancer last year. While his numbers dont exactly 
encourage re-signing him, the Braves dont have 
another decent first baseman on their roster.
Similarly, St. Louis has to decide what to do 
with Will Clark. Brought in at the trading dead
line to replace the injured Mark McGwire, Clark 
would definitely be too expensive to serve as a 
back up to a healthy Big Mac. Conversely, should 
McGwire get hurt again, having a solid replace
ment would be invaluable to the Cardinals title 
hopes.
Whatever ends up happening, there should be 
plenty of player movement and second-guessing 
this off-season. Some general managers will be 
hailed as geniuses while others are hanged in 
effigy. I cant wait. 
Matt Brun is a junior ECE major who cant 
decide whether the Indians would be better off 
breaking the bank on Ramirez or going after a 
pitcher like Mussina. Whatever happens, though, 
he acknowledges that Hart will probably make the. 
wrong decision.
Wanna START
something?
Eaton Corporation. Who?
We're a high-tech, $8.4 billion global manufacturer 
of highly engineered products. Get out!
We're looking for exceptional graduates to 
join our ranks. Hey! That's me!
Visit us online. You're online? SweeH 
Or join us on campus. We're interviewing select candidates. 
That's me...again! Candidates attracted 
by a fast-paced business environment. I love it!
Are you challenged by a competitive 
work atmosphere, where teamwork is essential and the 
best idea wins? I'm there! Then register with career 
services for an on-campus interview. First in line, man.
We look forward to discussing your professional 
vision as a potential Eaton associate. I can't wait!
Go ahead. Start something with the best company you 
know nothing about. Try and stop me.
For more information or to apply online, 
go to www.eatonjobs.com, 
then check with your Campus Career Services Office.
The BEST company you know nothing about.
The Hockey Report
by Erin Lucas
Saturday night the Carnegie 
Mellon ice hockey club hosted 
Youngstown in the bitterly cold 
Neville Ice Arena located in the 
South Side.
The game began promisingly for 
the Tartans; the Zamboni hardly 
had time to leave the ice before 
first-line wing Jamie Bretz carried 
the puck to the net and buried it 
behind the Youngstown goaltender, 11 seconds into the first 
period.
The Tartans continued to domi
nate the remainder of the period, 
keeping the puck at the 
Youngstown end of the ice.
Youngstown did manage to cre
ate some offensive opportunities 
but the CMU goaltender denied all
11 shots that he faced.
The Tartans scored again at 
11:27 when Jiri Schindler passed 
the puck across the crease to Ed 
Brower who one-timed it through 
the 5-hole of the Youngstown goal
keeper, making the score 2-0 in 
the Tartans favor.
During the second period, 
Youngstown elevated its level of 
play and began to fire shots con
tinually at the Tartan goal. 
Youngstown tied the game at 2-2 
with two quick goals halfway 
through the period.
Although CMU spent the major
ity of the closing minutes in the 
penalty box, defenseman Cliff 
Brangwynne scored a much-needed goal with a minute left, giving 
the Tartans a slight 3-2 lead going 
into the third.
The second period also demonstrated the home rinks innate abil-; 
ity to make the game even more, 
dangerous. During a harmless play; 
along the boards a section of glass  
somehow dislodged and fell to the 
ground. Luckily, no one was hit; 
and it was repaired relatively; 
quickly.
The incident was mild in com
parison to last weeks when the 
rink door busted open during a 
skirmish behind the net, causing a 
player to fall through and become  
injured. Hopefully the scoreboard  
will stay nailed to the wall for the I 
rest of the season.
Five goals were scored during! 
the final period of play, a majority i 
of them by the Tartans. Things ; 
started off badly when ! 
Youngstown tied the game early in 
the period. CMU remained com
posed as Bretz answered back with 
his second goal of the game, mak
ing the score 4-3. For 10 minutes, 
play continued back and forth; 
uneventfully. Then, with three 
minutes left in the period, Cliff 
Brangwynne netted two goals 
within 37 seconds of one another, 
pushing the score up to 6-3. This 
sealed the Tartans victory and the  
hat trick for Brangwynne.
The game ended with a 6-4' 
Carnegie Mellon victory over.' 
Youngstown. Despite this writers! 
status as a completely unqualified 1 
sports analyst, my pick for player! 
of the game goes to Cliff! 
Brangwynne, for obvious reasons.; 
How often does a defenseman get; 
a hat trick?
This Saturday, November 4, the; 
Tartans will face Slippery Rock; 
University at 6 pm in the Neville; 
Ice Arena.
CMU tennis shows 
up big in Memphis
TENNIS, from page A12 
set and won, 6-3, but things 
began to go downhill from there. 
He dropped the final two sets and 
lost the match in three sets. But 
Fatahalian didnt make excuses for 
his loss.
Fatigue was not really a fac
tor, Fatahalian said. Even if I 
admit I was a little tired going into 
the last match, Grilli could just as 
easily say he was as well. The 
matches were spaced out as to 
give the opponents enough time 
to recover from their previous 
matches.
I had chances to win the match 
and I did not take advantage of 
them, Fatahalian said. He real
ized his mistakes, but even if he 
did win, it would have been diffi
cult to beat the Division II champi
on, who advanced to beat Grilli
fairly easily.
Fatahalian also participated in 
the doubles competition in. 
Memphis with partner Jon HuiJ 
However, they did not fare as well, 
as Fatahalian did in singles, finish-! 
ing in sixth place.
Our performance was not very, 
impressive, said Fatahalian. The! 
level of competition was better 
than I anticipated, though.
Fatahalians performances over 
the past several weeks have led 
him to be named the UAA Mens 
Tennis Player of the Week last 
week as well.
Overall, the mens tennis team 
had to be satisfied with its accom
plishments, sending a singles and 
doubles team to nationals.
Next up for the Tartans is train
ing to be major competitors in the
2001 spring season.
classified
Travel
#1 Spring Break Vacations! Best 
Prices Guaranteed! Cancn, Jamaica, 
Bahamas & Florida. Sell Trips, Earn 
cash, & Go Free! Now hiring 
Campus Resp. 1-800-234-7007 endlesssummertours.com
For Sale
Artwork needed for calendar publi
cation. All mediums accepted. 
Contacted 299-0233 or 
artbydeco@hotmail.com.
FLOWERS for romance, birthday, platonic, formals and more ... make 
someone smile. Group discounts. 
ALEX'S FLOWERS. 687-ALEX. 687- 
4128. Call before noon for same day 
delivery, www.alexsflowers.com
Happily married couple in our late 
20's are waiting the blessing of our 
first child through adoption. Michele 
and Les toll free: 1-866-332-8580
Sizzling Website! www.loversplayground.com, Id: tdcrock@att.net, 
Pword: bn5231, Ad: 22316. Check 
this! (Co-eds).
Opportunities
Auditions announced for Pittsburgh 
premiere of "Kindertransport"
Three generations of women unravel 
their history in this compelling drama 
about a young child saved from the 
horror of the Holocaust by a littleknown rescue effort called the 
Kindertransport. Production dates are 
November 30-December 10.
Needed are four women, aged 
20-80, one man, any age, and one
girl, who ages from 9-1 7. For 
additional information or to sched
ule an appointment, call 412-521- 
8011 ext 111
Pittsburgh Deli Company 728 
Copeland Shadyside. Now Hiring 
kitchen/counter positions. Reliable 
25 hr minimum. Call 682-354 
Scott, David, Geoffrey.
Theater Department Positions. 
Jewish Community Center needs 
stage manager and run crew for 
Pittsburgh premiere of 
"Kindertransport" Production dates 
are November 30-December 10. 
Call 412-521 -8011 x111 for info or 
fax resume to the attention of the 
theater dept: 412-208-9107
Volunteers Needed ... Jewish 
Community Center needs volun
teers to help with all aspects of 
Theater Department. Interested 
individuals call 412 521-8011 xl 11
Classified Rates
1-20 words.....$10.00/wk
21-50 words.....$12.00/wk
51-100 words...$15.00/wk
MAIL TO:
The Tartan, Box 17 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
 Classifieds must be paid in cash 
or check before first run date
 On-campus departments and 
organizations may pay by journal 
transfer
 Due by 5 pm the Thursday 
before publication
Meet the PEOPLE of
.!
www.eatonjobs.com
Accounting 
Engineering 
Human Resources 
Information Technology 
General Management 
Strategic Planning 
Supply Chain 
Technical SalesTHE TARTAN 
268-2111

---------------------------------------------------

Sports
30 October 2000THE TARTANPage Als
Fatahalian Tartans recall feeling of victory against Rochester
sweeps D-III 
Rolex field
by Preston Treichel
Staffwriter
Going into the NCAA Division III 
Rolex National Small College 
Tennis Championships on October 
19, Carnegie Mellon sophomore 
singles player Kayvon Fatahalian 
was considered the favorite. After 
winning the National NCAA 
Division III tournament last spring, 
all the other players in the draw 
here in Memphis, Tennessee, were 
gunning to send Fatahalian home 
early.
However, Fatahalian showed no 
remorse toward his opponents and 
proved he deserved the title of 
champion the first time around. In 
each of his three matches in the 
tournament, he was able to defeat 
his opponents without too much 
trouble.
I was most concerned about the 
first match, Fatahalian said. Once 
the tournament gets going I usually 
feel more comfortable.
Fatahalian did have reason to be 
concerned with the first match; it 
was his closest one on paper. After 
dropping the first set, he bounced 
back strong to pull out the win. His 
semifinal match was easier, con
sisting of only two sets, but 
Fatahalian encountered another 
three-setter in the finals.
His opponent in the finals was 
Brett Kaplan of Emory University,
I was most con
cerned about the 
first match. Once 
the tournament gets 
going I usually feel 
more comfortable.  Kayvon 
Fatahalian
and after a rough start, Fatahalian 
turned things around to claim the 
title. After winning the finals, he 
was placed in the Rolex Super 
Bowl," a four-person tournament 
comprising the Division II, Division 
III, junior college, and NAIA cham
pions.
The winner of the mini-tourna
ment would earn a bid to the 
Division I tournament. Fatahalian, 
as the Division III champion, was 
pitted against the junior college 
champion, Rodrigo Grilli of College 
of the Desert. The winner would 
face the NAIA/Division II winner to 
see who would get a bid in the divi
sion I tournament this fall.
Fatahalian played a strong first 
See TENNIS, page All
by Charles Martin
Junior Staffwriter
A wise person once said, 
Sometimes its better to be more 
lucky than good.
The Carnegie Mellon Football 
team was both on Saturday. 
Sophomore tight end Scott Jubecks 
recovery of teammate Adam 
Urbanczyks fumble proved to be 
the only touchdown in a game that 
featured two outstanding defensive 
performances. Relying on a fired up 
defense and efficient ball control 
attack, CMU (5-3) was able to 
break a two game skid and hold off 
Rochester (5-3) securing a third 
place finish in the UAA.
After one of its worst showings in 
school history, being held to minus 
one rushing yard against Chicago, 
the Tartan offense rebounded 
behind the 1-2 punch of Ricardo 
Clarke (12 attempts, 59 yards) and 
Andrew Garrod (11 attempts, 45 
yards).
The CMU offense was once again 
without starting quarterback Eric 
Zimpfer. Zimpfer re-injured his 
throwing shoulder earlier in the 
week. In his absence, the Tartans 
called upon sophomore backup 
Sebastian Smelko. Smelko effec
tively guided CMU to its first score, 
a 23-yard Mike Palmer field goal. 
Smelko completed five passes in 11 
attempts for a game-high 59 yards. 
In 10 rushing attempts, he gained
The Tartans Joe Manger (28) and Brian Lenhdrt (97) team up to bring down Rochester's Greg Lozeau, who rushed for 34 total yards on Saturday.
44 yards. His lone mistake was a 
second quarter interception. 
Rochester had been averaging two 
picks a contest.
Neither offense was able to take
advantage of their scoring opportu
nities. Rochester failed to score a 
touchdown, despite advancing the 
ball within the CMU 10-yard line on 
consecutive possessions. On both
trips, Rochester had apparent On the next red zone possession,
touchdowns negated because of Rochester turned the ball over on
holding penalties. The Yellow downs.
Jackets settled for a 29-yard field CMU was also unable to take
goal after the Smelko interception. See FOOTBALL, page A9
Mens soccer, 4-2 victors over UR, capture UAA title
by Christopher Chung
Sports
ill
Junior midfielder Steve Tepper dashed in, 
gathered the rebound, but missed the second 
attempt wide.
Less than five minutes later, first-year orward Buckv Ferozan unleashed another shot 
which again was blocked. But this time, 
sophomore forward Matt Crummy was able o 
follow and placed the ball into the left corner 
of the goal to put the Tartans up 1-0.
Ten minutes later, Ferozan got involved 
again, assisting on a pass across and downfield that found a sprinting Brian Henry on 
the right side of the field. On the run, Henry,
This was a familiar scene against Case Western Reserve on Saturday evening. The Tartans scored three times in the first period, and eventually a sophomore midfielder, got off a shot that 
came away with the victory after adding one more goal in the second. The 4-2 win clinched the UAA title for Carnegie Mellon. See SOCCER, page A9
Swim teams defeat Grove City; men stand at 3-0, women at 2-1
by Michael Cook
Junior Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellon's swimming and 
diving teams have started their sea
son in impressive fashion with 3-0 
and 2-1 records for the mens and 
womens teams, respectively. Last 
Saturday the Tartan swimmers 
apparently came prepared with 
garlic around their necks as both 
the men and women emerged vic
torious over Transylvania, 181-38 
for the men and 124-106 for the 
women. The men managed a 
sweep of the tri-meet, by defeating 
Wittenburg, 185-38, though the 
women were unable to do the 
same, losing 108-134.
First-year architect Brian 
McCarthy was a double-winner at 
the tri-meet. McCarthy started the 
meet by breaking a Wittenburg 
pool-record in the 100-yard back
stroke. His 53.29 seconds in the 
event was enough to give him a "B" 
cut, an honor that gives him consid
eration for entry in the NCAA 
Championships to be held in 
Buffalo, New York, in March.
McCarthys record-breaking did 
not end there. In the 200-yard 
backstroke McCarthy swam to a 
pool record time of 1:55.84. In 
addition, the time .broke Carnegie 
Mellons school record, held by
Jake McGuire since 1995, by more 
than two seconds.
Coach David Belowich was 
impressed by the McCarthy perfor
mance, saying that it was an 
impressive way to start a college 
career.
Senior Eric Melymuk, last year's 
fastest swimmer in the event, fin
ished a disappointing fifth place.
McCarthy was not the only CMU 
architect there to break records. 
Third-year architect Matt 
Shewchuk took down the pool 
record in the first hundred of the 
4xl00-yard freestyle relay with a 
time of 47.98 seconds.
This impressive performance, 
according to coach Belowich, set 
the tone for a great race by the rest 
of the relay. Jon Alpert, Brian 
Jucha and George Heidinger com
pleted the race by breaking the 
pool record for the entire relay with 
a time of 3:14.52.
Other double wins on the men's 
side came from first-year Steve 
Chiou in the 100- and 200-yard 
breaststrokes, first-year Will 
Schmitt in the 500- and 1000-yard 
freestyles, and Shewchuk in the 50 
and 100-yard freestyle events.
The womens team was lead by 
Senior co-captain Julie Tseng. 
Tseng finished her races strongly, 
out-touching foes in the 200-yard 
freestyle by .09 seconds and the
200-yard backstroke by .02 sec
onds.
Julie has strong finishes to her 
races, which is a testament to her 
hard work she has been putting in 
at practice, said Belowich. Julie 
leads by example.
The women received good sup
port from first-year Corey Ginsberg 
in the sprint events and Libby 
Williams, the winner of the 500- 
and 1000-yard freestyles, in the 
distance races.
I really try and stay relaxed to
start out keeping it long. It gets me 
in the groove to keep a consistent 
pace, said Williams.
This Saturday, the Tartans sent 
Grove City home with losses, 
defeating both their mens and 
womens teams easily.
The women were supported by 
Ginsberg, who had first and second 
place finishes at the meet. She 
posted a victory in the 200-yard 
freestyle, in which the Tartans were 
the top three finishers, and had a 
See SWIMMING, page A9
ma
NEWS
Administration
Intramural Director: Mike
Mastroianni, x8-2214 or mma8+ 
Assistant Director: Mike
Grzywinski, x8-2214 or immike+ 
Secretary: Amy Kiryk, x8-2053 or kiryk+
Intramural Board President: Mike 
Edwards, x2-2993 
Intramural Vice President: Ryan 
Jackson
Women?s President: Amy Tsao
Important Dates
Wednesday, November 1  IM 
Board Meeting 12:30 pm in the 
Gym Conference Room 
Sunday, November 5  Bowling 
playoffs begin
Monday, November 6  Volleyball 
playoffs begin.
Sports in Season
Bowling  The IM Bowling regular 
season ended yesterday. The play
offs will begin Sunday at the PAA. 
Playoff times will be available 
Wednesday at 2 pm.
Water Polo  Intramural water 
polo is being played at the UC Pool. 
Games are played Monday and 
Wednesday evenings starting at 9 
pm. No warming up while people 
are participating in recreational 
swim.
Racquetball  Matches are under
way at the UC courts. Please play 
games as scheduled and report 
scores to the IM Office.
Soccer  The intramural soccer 
season is under way at Gesling 
Stadium and IM fields. Please 
remember to stay off the fields dur
ing varsity practice. Games are 
played Monday through Thursday 
evenings, as well as on Sunday 
afternoons. Please check the IM
bulletin board for schedule 
changes.
Volleyball  The regular season 
ends Thursday. The playoffs will 
begin Monday, November 6. 
Times will be posted Friday at 
noon.
Foosball  Play enters its final 
week this week. Please have all 
scores to the IM Office no later 
than midnight Monday, November 
6. Playoffs will begin next week.
Chess  Playoff schedule will be 
posted later this week.
Table Tennis, Call Pool, and Darts
 Schedules are out. Please play 
all games as scheduled and report 
scores to the IM Office.
Sports Completed
Tennis  The champions of the IM 
tennis leagues were as follows: 
Arpanets(Majors), ASA All Stars 
(Intermediate), PiKA A (Minors)
and Pioneers Tennis Elbow 
(Women). Congrats to all the win
ners.
Majors Football All-Stars 
Justin Peroli - Peroli's All Stars 
(MVP)
Jason Steig - Peroli's All Stars 
Andy Kabala - Peroli's All Stars 
Andy Jackson - PiKA A 
Steve Joiner - PiKA A 
Matt Demler - Delt Scrubs A 
Marc Tata - #1 Stunnas
All Sports Total through 
Tennis
Beta - 800 
PiKA-775 
Kappa Sigma - 650 
Men's Basketball - 384
Women
Tartan Hoopers -1200 
F.T.H. - 617 
Pioneers - 200
All email rosters must be submitted24 hours prior to the deadline.

---------------------------------------------------

Sondheims Tony Award-winning 
musical. CMUs production boast
ed Robert Page as music director 
and Bruce Wallace Hostetler as 
stage director. Assistant musical 
director Andrew Clark conducted 
the performances held on the 27th 
and 29th.
In the first act of the musical, 
the narrator (Nathan Motta) intro
duces us to a common baker 
(Joseph Haughton) and his wife 
(Emily Motherwell and Renu 
Parmar). They are the neighbors 
of an angry witch (Kristen 
Watson) who is very partial to the 
greens in her garden. Years ago, 
the bakers father (Adrian Rollett) 
had stolen some veggies from the 
witch, including some magic 
beans. To settle the score with the 
old man, the witch placed a curse 
on him so that his family tree 
would always be a barren one. 
The old man ran from his home in 
guilt, thus leaving,the baker to be 
raised by his mother, convinced 
that he lost his father in a baking 
accident.
Still under the curse brought on 
by his father, the baker is made an 
offer by the mean old witch that 
he cannot refuse. To undo the 
curse, he must go into the woods 
and find for the witch four ingre
dients: the cow as white as milk; 
the cape as red as blood; the hair 
as yellow as corn; the slipper as 
pure as gold. Not too surprising
ly, these items are possessed by 
some memorable fairy tale char
acters. The witch plans to use 
these objects to make a potion 
that will restore her to youthful 
beauty. The baker comes across 
Jack (Jason Kaminski) who was 
sent to market by his mother 
(Alexis Bloom) to sell his beloved, 
See WOODS, page B2
by Andy Francis
Co-Arts and Living Editor
Jerry Springer, probably best 
known for his eponymous daytime 
talk show, took a break from tap
ing the program last week and 
paid a visit to the Carnegie Mellon 
campus. Thursday afternoon he 
spoke in McConomy Auditorium, 
delivering a lecture on politics, the 
media, and, most importantly, free 
speech. Springer, a former politi
cian who is still active in national 
affairs, presented his views on why 
free speech is so important to this 
country and described the impact 
that the media (including The Jerry Springer Show) has on the 
way it is both promoted and 
attacked in the United States.
Back when Springer was the 
mayor of Cincinnati, and even 
prior to that when he first broke 
into politics by advocating civil 
rights and protesting the Vietnam 
War, his ideas and opinions con
sistently fell on the liberal side of 
the political spectrum. Today, as 
Springer told one audience mem
ber, Im as liberal as ever, some
thing that became apparent from 
the outset of his talk. He namechecked fellow provocateur 
Howard Stern at the beginning, 
saying that Sterns presence on 
the air is important so that the 
rest of us can stay free. He quick
ly transitioned from talking about 
the importance of free speech to
See SPRINGER, page B2
Nuri Miller/Photo Staff
Jerry Springer criticized the lack of diversity present in both the American popular mass media and on the television.
All art by Gabriel Sabourin/Art Staf
International Festival 2000 puts spotlight on Latin America, Caribbean
by Andy Francis
Co-Arts and Living Editor
Having focused on Asia, Europe, and Africa the past 
three years, the organizers of the yearly International 
Festival turned to Latin America and the Caribbean 
for this years celebration. Featuring art, music, danc
ing, and of course food, the four-day event touched on 
many of the traditional and contemporary aspects of 
the culture of our neighbors down south. In addition, 
a number of students from CMU and other nearby col
leges presented their personal experiences working in 
and with Latin America.
A *
An integral part of each years International Festival 
are the displays of art and culture that students might 
not be especially familiar with. The University Center 
Gallery featured traditional clothing, costumes, and 
furniture from Latin America and the Caribbean; 
while Rangos Hall was transformed into a Latin mar
ketplace on Friday and Saturday, featuring crafts, jew
elry, and clothing. The centerpiece of the festivals 
artistic displays was the Regina Gouger Miller Gallery, 
which presented three separate exhibits. The first 
floor featured a piece titled New (re)presentation of 
Latin America on Video. It consisted of a two-hour 
collection of videos by young Latin American artists. 
This exhibit was curated by Carolia Loyola Garcia, 
who intended it to break down stereotypes and 
expand inagination. The second floor of the Miller 
Gallery was a collection of sacred art from Brazil, 
Haiti, and Cuba named African Spirits in the New 
World: A Celebration of African Religious Art and Its 
New World Descendents. It was presented by Dr. 
Frank McGlynn, a professor at the University of 
Pittsburgh, who wanted to honor African art and show 
the influence it had on New World artistic endeavors. 
The third floor featured a group of multimedia works, 
titled cortocircuito - short circuit by Patricia 
Villalobos Eccheverria. The pieces, centered loosely 
on print media, sought to shed light on intercultural 
issues and cultural identity.
Of course, not everything about the International 
Festival is supposed to be deep and thought-provok
ing; hence, the food and music displays. The Carnegie
Steel Band played at Kirr Commons as the entertain
ment for Thursdays opening ceremonies, as visitors 
sampled free Latin American food. Dr. Kwasi and the 
Entertainers took the same stage on Friday, followed 
by the CMU Philharmonic later that evening. Three 
bands performed live as part of Saturdays events, 
First up was Orquesta Tropical, a festive group who 
also played last Carnival, followed by Carnegie Steel. 
Last but not least was an AB-sponsored concert by pio
neering ska group the Skatalites. Throughout the 
weekend, food was available during most of the day 
for anyone who took a stroll through Rangos Latin 
marketplace. Alternatively, more ambitious students 
could attend Saturdays workshop on salsa-making.
A big part of this years International Festival was 
Personal Journeys, a series of informal talks by stu
dents, faculty members, and other locals, that 
detailed some experiences they had with Latin 
America. Students Neema Avashia, Marnie McKay, 
Philip Weinmeister, and Rachel Whipple gave the 
first.of these presentations, detailing the experiences 
they had during their time studying abroad in Latin 
America last year. Several presentations dealt with 
race relations in the Caribbean, including Pittsburgh 
doctoral student Shawn Wells talk on Cuba and 
junior humanities and arts major Andress Appolons 
discussion about Haiti. Other people related their 
experiences in various other Latin American coun
tries. Student Life Coordinator Carolina Garcia 
detailed the service projects students did as part of 
the Nicaragua Alternative International Break
Experience, while public policy and management 
masters student Monica Trejo described Mayan cul
ture in El Salvador.
Like in past years, the International Festival 
brought together people and works from all sorts of 
disciplines, both from CMU and outside the campus 
community, to celebrate cultures and traditions that 
most students probably are not fully aware of. 
Inasmuch as Carnegie Mellon has a very ethnically 
diverse population relative to many other schools, it 
seems appropriate that there be some events to take 
away some of the Pittsburgh focus we here at CMU 
normally get. And, of course, everyones always up. 
for some free food, right?
Arts An Living*O
30 October 2000Section
Into the Woods premiers at Kresge Springer discusses politics, free speech
by Dave DiFilippo
Junior Staffwriter
We all know the stories of Jack 
and the Beanstalk, Little Red 
Riding Hood, and Cinderella. Most 
of us were first introduced to these 
fairy tales when we were just chil
dren, and we are so familiar with 
them that we have never ques
tioned their simplicity. Have you 
ever wondered, though, what one 
does with a dead giant in his back
yard, or how a little girl and her 
grandmother could so free-heartedly carve up a wolfs carcass? Into the Woods, a production featuring 
music and lyrics by Stephen 
Sondheim and based on the book 
by James Lapine, is an original 
musical designed to answer some 
of the more serious questions 
posed by the fairy tales we know 
and love.
This past weekend our Carnegie 
Mellon School of Music presented 
their finely executed version of
Nuri Miller/Photo Staff
Traveiin Band: Blues Traveler, led by harmonica-wielding front
man John Popper, played a free show on the Mall last Friday.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 30, 2000
EMC Corporation,
Ilio worldwide leader in Enterprise
Storage1" systems, software, and
services, is in your life more than yon fl
think. In fact, chances are, we're in your
life when you use your credit card, make
airline reservations, or hop on the Internet to
surf, shop, or even look for a job!
Ycnh MBI Kt Mcnh faM to gelling
into our life. Turn Ihe key, and discover an exciting 
future and a world of opportunity at EMC.
We're In yojyr life already.
Now get intoours.
Come learn about exciting career opportunities for talented MBA's at cON-CAMPUS PRESENTATION: NOVEMBER 6
 the #1 provider of enterprise storage solutions worldwide
 a Fortune 500 superpower bursting with start-up energy
 a place to learn from top minds.-use all the latest took... 
team up with decision-makers...feel valued and rewarded
 a company committed to employee education and professional development
 a creative corporate culture that supports your growth without cramping your style.
Come to our presentation on campus, or for more information about EMC or to apply 
online, please visit us at www.EMC.com. You may also send your resume directly to 
universityOemc.com. Human Resources, University Recruiting, Job Code MBAOO, 
EMC Corporation, 5 Technology Drive, Milford, MA 01757-3681.
EMC2
where information lives
EMC Is an equal opportunity employer that values 
the strength diversity brings to our workplace.
Here is a list of just some of the positions we currently have 
available for MBA grads:
 Project Manager
 Associate Program Manager
 Associate Product Manager
 Marketing Manager
 Marketing Consultant
 Internet Capital Investment Manager
www.emc.com
Subway Series notwithstanding, New York still has nothing on the River City
Less Stress? 
By: Emily Landes
It is important to know that I am from a 
suburb of New York City. This is important 
because we New Yorkers tend to think 
rather highly of ourselves and our place in 
the world. For example, theres New York 
and then, well, the rest of the globe can 
just sort itself out because we dont really 
are. The highly publicized Senate race, 
courtesy of one Mrs. Rodham Clinton, and 
the recent Subway Series have only 
swelled the city to new heights of selfimportance. New York is the only place 
that Ive heard of where potential employ
ers ask out-of-state job candidates, Do 
you think you could handle it here? 
Careful : it might be the most important 
question they ask.
Should you decide to leave the city, thus 
displaying questionable judgement right 
from the start, there are only a few other
places that are acceptable to visit. Even 
then, you must keep your rightful sense of 
superiority about you at all times. To say 
that any of these places are better than 
New York amounts to no less than treason. 
However, a New Yorker may claim to have 
had a moderately good time in the follow
ing places without fear of retribution: 
Boston, Philly, D.C., Florida (Spring 
Breakers and Retirees only), and some
times San Francisco, depending on the 
audience. Telling people that you enjoyed 
Chicago may elicit raised eyebrows, but 
telling people that you like Pittsburgh is 
downright laughable.
So, all you New Yorkers out there, get 
ready for a good guffaw: I like Pittsburgh. 
I like it a lot. In fact, after spending this 
past summer living in New York City, I was 
actually happy to get back here. Before you 
burn me in effigy, let me explain.
When I first came to Pittsburgh three 
and a half years ago, I was extremely skep
tical. The city seemed to shut down around
ten o clock most weekdays, about the 
same time that public transportation all 
but disappeared. The Cathedral of 
Learning is so Orwellian it gives me the 
creeps. You cant buy beer and liquor in the 
same store and theTood, oh, the food. Lets 
just say this about the food: The first time 
I ordered Chinese food it came with fried 
chicken wings. I nearly required sedation. 
I would tell you about my first encounter 
with a Pittsburgh bagel, but thankfully I 
have blocked it from my mind.
But since Freshman year, my affection 
for Pittsburgh has grown considerably. I 
love yinz and the fact that clothes here 
need warshed. I love that Pittsburgh is 
one of the few places in this country where 
independent stores continue to thrive, 
unless of course Mayor Murphys 
Downtown redevelopment plan succeeds 
in destroying many of them. (Did anyone 
else notice that Murphy was the only 
politician to actually get booed at the Gore 
rally last week?) Movies here cost a good
two dollars less than they do in New York, 
and you can order a pitcher of beer in 
Pittsburgh for less than the price of a bot
tle at home.
I love the unique architecture of almost 
every building in the city, barring Wean, 
and the endearingly twisted streets. 
Pittsburgh is beautiful from any entrance 
point, be it the famous view after the Fort 
Pitt Tunnel or coming through the Squirrel 
Hill Tunnels or even 279. Anyone who 
doubts the beauty of Pittsburgh need only 
take the Incline on a clear night; the city 
sparkles like the Emerald City twice over, 
shimmering off the reflection from the 
rivers.
Sadly, my time in Pittsburgh is almost 
over, and my one regret is that I have not 
explored it more. Carnegie Mellon keeps 
us so busy that students constantly com
plain that they never get a chance to go off 
campus. Even when we do leave campus, 
we stick mainly to the places close to 
home: Oakland, Squirrel Hill and
Shadyside. All these areas have much to 
offer, but the city has so much more. The 
cultural district downtown features many 
incredible plays and operas to see, all 
offering student tickets at a fraction of the 
cost. Unique bars, clubs, and vintage cloth
ing stores make up just a few of the attrac
tions on the historic South Side. Even the 
warehouses in the Strip District can be 
great places to pick almost anything up 
wholesale, including produce, pets (yes 
pets) and ethnic delicacies.
If I sound like an employee of the 
Pittsburgh Regional Alliance, I apologize. 
Its just that Ive realized that Im quickly 
running out of time in Pittsburgh and 
theres so much left that Ive been meaning 
to do. Before I know it, Ill be done here at 
CMU and what awaits me then? Just bor
ing old New York.
Emily Landes might seriously consider moving to Pittsburgh, if only they could get their pizza right.
Daytime host denounces censorship, praises Stern
SPRINGER, from B1
criticizing the lack of diversity on television. 
Springer pointed out that American TV only 
reflects the upper middle class white perspec
tive of life, and that its important that the 
people who populate his program are allowed 
to be on the air. He closed this discussion by 
pointedly asking the audience why his guests 
are considered trash while celebrities with 
eating disorders, drug problems, and criminal 
records are adored by the public.
Springer has no delusions about his televi
sion program  he even went so far as to call it 
the stupidest show on TV. Nevertheless, he 
defended it for much of his speech, largely 
because it resists the elitism that character
izes much of modern mass media. Springer 
attacked those who criticize The Jerry Springer Show, saying that most dont dislike the show 
because of its content, but rather because the 
critics just really dont like these people. He 
gave examples of TV shows and movies with far 
more offensive and deplorable content and 
began perhaps the most thought-provoking 
segment of his talk when he named news pro
grams as prime offenders.
After working for ten years as a news 
anchor, Springer is without a doubt well 
versed in the business. Responding to the 
many critics who label his show as exploita
tive, he clearly outlined why he feels that 
news reporting is a far more destructive and 
exploitative force than his show could ever be. 
He claimed that the daily news destroys peo
ples lives...every single day it exploits peo
ple. The primary difference between the two, 
he explained, is that people dont have a 
choice if they want to be on the news. If some
one does something really bad, those in 
charge of broadcasting the news will put him 
or her on without any regard for how it could 
seriously ruin their lives. Springer mentioned 
the Bill Clinton/Monica Lewinsky media fias
co as a good example of this, saying that 
weve almost destroyed our political system 
with all of this negative news.
On The Jerry Springer Show, by contrast, he 
says that you really have to want to be on the 
show to get on. Springer continued, pointing 
out that the guests only talk about what they 
want to talk about, are permitted to use aliases, 
and are not allowed to discuss people not pre
sent. As for the surprises key to nearly every 
program, he explained that before the show, 
each guest is given a list of 21 possible surpris
es  each and every one has to be approved by 
the guest before they can go on. Explaining it in 
this fashion, Springer makes a strong case for 
his notion that the news is much more exploita
tive of people than his show. Summing up his 
argument, Springer said that his show allows 
people to not have to conform to societys 
norms and that, in his opinion, Thats not 
exploitation. Thats freedom.
The final portion of Springers talk was 
devoted to discussing the morality of his show, 
or what some perceive as the lack thereof. He 
began by clearly stating that, Our show is put 
on for entertainment. End of story. Next, he 
moved on to addressing people who say that The Jerry Springer Show is bad for kids to 
watch, saying that virtually every episode is a 
morality play where even young people can tell 
whos the good guy and whos the bad guy. 
Shows with lots of sex and violence content, he 
argued, have more of an influence on how kids 
think than his show because, as he says, no one 
would watch his show and think, you know 
what, I want to be a transvestite. Springers 
final thought on the situation was the startling 
declaration, I will put the morality lessons of 
our show up against any show on television. 
And we win.
Springers talk, as a whole, was intriguing
because of how it seamlessly intertwined his 
defenses of The Jerry Springer Show with his 
attacks on the media and those seeking to 
restrict free speech. He extended this into a Q 
and A session afterwards, where he consistent
ly argued against censorship. One of his more 
interesting answers was given in response to a 
student who asked a question concerning if he 
supported the censoring of hate groups. 
Springer answered that he favors letting 
unpopular groups like neo-Nazis and the KKK 
on his show because, If youve got a cancer in 
the society, expose them. Every time we do a' 
show on [hate groups] they look like complete 
idiots ... their ideas fail of their own lack of 
merit. His arguments against news organiza
tions were also quite compelling; they showed 
how something people take for granted as 
good-natured can be mean-spirited and unfair. 
Even if youre one of the many detractors who 
think that Springers show has absolutely noi 
good qualities, its hard not to respect his views 
on politics and the media, and at least support 
the ideas and opinions that The Jerry Springer. Show represents.
Although he deals with eccentric folks almost every day on The Jerry Springer Show, the McConomy 
crowd still managed to flummox Springer with relentless questions about censorship.
courtesy CMU
(From left) Dominique Barbour, Katie Sullivan, Catherine Walker, and Kara 
Cornell performed this weekend in Steven Sondheim's Into the Woods.
Music Dept, production 
revisits classic fairy tales
WOODS, from B1
malnourished cow. Of course, Jack 
is convinced by the baker to sell 
the cow (as white as milk) for five 
magic beans.
Meanwhile, Little Red Riding 
Hood (Jaime Cerota and
Stephanie Gravelle) has been
delayed on her way to Grammys 
(Melanie Wakefield) house by the 
notorious fairy-tale wolf (Douglas 
Jones). It doesnt take long for the 
baker to obtain the girls cape, 
which happens to be as red as 
blood. At the same ' time,
Cinderella (Michelle Nicklas and 
Catherine Walker) has been
attending the kings ball each 
night and is consequently being 
pursued by a charming, womaniz
ing prince (Howie Smith). The 
bakers wife has curiously ven
tured into the woods alone to help 
search for the items, and she suc
ceeds in acquiring Cinderellas 
slipper (pure as gold).
Just beyond the mossy knoll, 
another of the kings love-hungry 
sons (Brian Kremer) has discov
ered a maiden in a tower named 
Rapunzel (Sarah Hindes). 
Rapunzel was taken from her fam
ily by the witch at a very young age 
and was placed in the tower to 
protect her from the outside 
world. The bakers wife, posing as 
the prince/ beckons to the fair 
maiden to let down her hair, 
which, by the way, is as yellow as 
corn.
With all four of the items in 
hand, the baker and his wife feed 
to the cow the other three. Jack 
milks the cow. The witch drinks 
the potion. The witch becomes 
beautiful. The baker gets a kid. 
Cinderella marries the prince. 
Rapunzel gets the other one. Little 
Red kills the wolf. Jack kills a 
giant. At this point, everyone sings 
about how they couldnt possibly 
be any happier.
They were wrong. In the second 
act, each character realizes that 
maybe a perfect fairy tale ending
is not what life is all about. Both 
Cinderellas and Rapunzels 
princes go out and find new maid
ens, one a beauty asleep (Emily 
Shepler) and the other a girl with 
skin white as snow (Tara Besso). 
The bakers wife has a moment in 
the woods with Cinderellas 
prince, and the fairy tale starts to 
look more like a soap opera.
To make matters much worse, a 
lady giant (Ellen Graham), the 
wife of the giant that Jack killed, 
has come down a beanstalk into 
the kingdom with revenge on her 
mind. She crushes the castle and 
most of the kingdom looking for 
the lad who killed her husband. 
Rapunzel, the bakers wife, and 
even the narrator of the story are 
killed  victims of the giants 
rage. The remaining characters 
band together and successfully 
execute their plan to kill the giant.
In the midst of all the morals 
and lesson-learning were some 
great performances by the music 
schools vocal department. 
Douglas Jones portrayal as the 
wolf was nothing less than hilari
ous, while Joseph Haughton and 
Emily Motherwell were particular
ly good as baker and wife. Kristen 
Watson (the witch) and Nicole 
Taylor as Cinderellas mother gave 
great vocal performances. Most 
would agree that the highlights of 
the show, though, happened 
whenever Howie Smith and Brian 
Kremer pranced onto stage as the 
charming and not so daring 
princes. Misha Barbour and Katie 
Sullivan as Cinderellas evil step
sisters, Kara Cornell \ as 
Cinderellas stepmother, and 
Michael Darga as Cinderellas 
father provided some additional 
comic relief. Their performance of Agony, in which they sang about 
their frustrations of womanizing, 
was outstanding. All in all, the 
show was a tribute to the fine 
musical tradition we are fortunate 
to have here at CMU. So, if you 
didnt see it, shame on you.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 30, 2000
Member FDIC
USE IT TO
COLLECT
Carnegie Almanac
50 YEARS AGO, October 31, 1950  
Carnegie Techs fiftieth annual Homecoming 
was attended by 4,000 alumni and 1,300 dele
gates from throughout the continent. As part 
of the ceremonies, John Christian Warner was 
f inaugurated as the fourth president of CIT. In 
| addition, the Engineering and Science Hall and 
I a new wing of the womens dorm were dedi
cated during the weekend. The new wing to the 
$1.8 million complex contained new dining 
and recreation areas.
As part of the traditional Carnegie Day, 
freshmen competed with sophomores, winning
4 to 0 in a game of Fasterns Een on the cut. 
Doris Plohr, who was coronated as Freshman 
Queen by President Warner, cheered on the 
team. Delta Upsilon won the fraternity pledge 
cheer competition, which meant that they were 
! given the honor of presenting their winning 
cheer during the Homecoming game after half 
[ time.
TEN YEARS AGO, October 29, 1990  
Junior design student Terence Ross was found 
dead in his Sigma Nu fraternity room, with a 
preliminary coroners report stating the cause 
of death as unknown. CMU Police Chief James 
LaPaglia said that there was no indication of 
foul play. Student Affairs rented a bus for Rosss 
fraternity brothers to attend his funeral in New 
York. Members of the Greek Community 
showed their respect by wearing their letters 
inside out and painting the fence in memory of 
Ross.
Ross was remembered by friends as a dedi
cated student who spent much of his time in 
the design studio. His classmates said he was a 
generous person who took time out to help oth
ers with their projects. He was also active in 
playing football and hockey for Sigma Nu and 
served as their Social Chair.
suspended them every time they made a mis
take. Senate encouraged students to conduct 
write-in campaigns. c
They anticipated a low turnout for elections 
that year. Election turnout for the previous year 
was 6.5 percent of the student body.
ONE YEAR AGO, October 25, 1999  
Seventy-three Carnegie Mellon students lost 
in-room access to the campus network last 
Monday for copyright violations. The action 
was taken after Computing Services and 
Student Affairs conducted a random search of 
over 250 computers.
Computing Services employees manually 
search the computers for copyrighted materi
als, such as MP3 music files, cartoon strips, 
movies, and software. They found put that 
over 30 percent of the selected computers 
were in violation of federal and local laws, as 
well as CMUs Computing Code of Ethics. 
Carnegie Mellon had been receiving pressure 
from the Recording Industry Association of 
America (RIAA) because of sites on the 
schools network that contained copyrighted 
sounds recordings.
Students expressed concerns over 
Computing Services actions. They claimed 
that their search violated their rights to priva
cy. As part of their search, Computing 
Services attempted to gain access to password 
protected directories by trying out obvious 
passwords.
Compiled by 
Seth Mandel
FIVE YEARS AGO, October 30, 1995  
With 19 vacant Student Senate seats, only 
three candidates were put on the ballot for 
upcoming elections. Senate Human Resources 
Chair Brenden Mielke said that the problem 
was due to a group mistake. He said that every
one assumed someone else was taking care of 
publicity when in reality, no one did.
Senates effort to advertise the elections 
came after petitions to run were due. While 
Senate considered extending the deadline, 
they decided not to because doing so would 
violate their by-laws. Senate leaders felt that it 
was important for them to follow their rules 
because the rules would be meaningless if they
25 YEARS AGO, October 28, 1975  
Carnegie Mellons Board of Trustees examined 
problems resulting from overcrowding. While 
looking at what the proper size of the universi
ty was, trustees said they were surprised to 
hear that students tripled and quadrupled up 
in rooms. They intended to conduct a study of 
whether the overcrowding was related to the 
ftte of attrition. An increase of undergraduate 
students seemed to indicate that shortly gradu
ate students would have to live off campus. To 
sblve the housing crunch, Board members sug
gested looking into leasing apartments.
Jeff Cullers/Photo Staff
The CMU Philharmonic performed this weekend as one of the three diverse 
musical acts featured during this years International Festival.
And, get this, your mom and dad can wire you money 
whenever you need it  free.
It doesnt rain in your room.
Theres no traffic and no charge for parking.
You dont have to line up or drive through.
Theres just you, an often-annoying mate or two.
And your computer.
Thats the beauty part.
You can open an account right online 
Because theres your bank. Right on your computer. and approval can happen in minutes.
CompuBank is a real bank in every way. You get free Or call us at at 888-479-9292.
basic checking, free savings, access to free ATM net
works and a CompuBank Visa check card you can use to We just may turn out to be your favorite roommate 
buy books, clothes - just about anything.
Log on to winraw.CompuBank.coni to find out more 
Click on Circle of Friendsto learn how you can 
earn $40 for each friend you refer who opens and funds 
a CompuBank account.
Everything you don't like about your bank.

---------------------------------------------------

Science T
30 October 200030O ctoctbPage B4
Symposium explores world in 2050
by Sriram Vaidhyanathan
Staff Writer
What will our lives be like in 
2050? How much will technology 
affect our day-to-day lives in 50 
years? Well-known experts in the 
field sought to address these issues 
at a symposium entitled 
Earthware: a good world in 2050; 
will computers help or hinder?, 
held in conjunction with the dedi
cation of Carnegie Mellons NewellSimon Hall. The panel had speak
ers ranging from CEOs of corpora
tions to distinguished university 
professors in their fields, not to 
mention a brief cameo, from Sri 
Lanka; by Sir Arthur C. Clarke. The 
event was a day-long affair in 
McConomy Auditorium, hosted 
principally by the School of 
Computer Science.
The symposium began, fittingly 
enough, with an optimist. Ray 
Kurzweil, CEO of Kurzweil Applied 
Intelligence and Kurzweil 
Educational Systems, also a pio
neer in fields such as speech recog
nition, opened the event with an 
enlightening view of what he 
believed the future would hold for 
all of us. The much-debated impli
cations of Moores.Law were dis
cussed, with exponential graphs 
being the hot topic of the day. 
Kurzweil went on to call technology 
a double-edged sword, whereby 
mankind would have to ensure that 
it does not succumb to the dangers 
of such exponential progress. 
Kurzweil agreed with Robert Kraut, 
professor of social psychology and 
human computer interaction, who 
said that the future would hold 
prosperity and immortality.
Kraut stressed the fact that in the 
future, Market and technical 
analyses must be brought to bear 
simultaneously. He also discussed 
the implications of the Internet in 
our daily lives and the fact that 
forms of communication such as 
email ought to be only used as a 
supplement to normal face-to-face 
communication.
CMU had a chance to show off its 
multimedia technology with a 
unique synthetic interview of Bill
The Newell-Simon Hall was dedicated 
Joy, co-founder and chief scientist 
at Sun Microsystems. He tended to 
differ on the above issue, looking at 
the future with a despondent view. 
He called the 21st century a cru
cial one, adding that it would 
prove the ultimate evolutionary 
test of whether we can control 
our own inventions or not.
Looking at the future from a 
more abstract point of view, Raj 
Reddy, Carnegie Mellons Herbert 
A. Simon University Professor of 
Computer Science and Robotics, 
presented his version of what the 
implications of infinite memory 
and bandwidth would in the 
future. His discussion touched on 
the possibility of functional equiva
lents of teleportation and time trav
el becoming possible, by replacing 
atoms by bits. David Gelernter of 
Yale University was of the opinion 
that technology must in no way be 
hindered; he claimed that progress 
was natural for mankind, and 
should be unrestricted in terms of 
social and political barriers. On the 
future of AI, he remarked, If we 
are to have a PC that can think, we 
must get it to hallucinate.
There was a special treat for sci-fi 
fans at the symposium, when a 
video clip of an interview with 
Arthur C. Clarke from Sri Lanka 
was screened. His comments 
regarding the future were captivat
ing, as he spoke about how technolBehnam Farahpour/Contributing Editor
as part of the Earthware symposium, 
ogy would affect our lives within 
the next 50 years. He voiced his 
hope that within that time period, 
we could advance to a level where 
every small community in the 
world, be it a hut, a village or a res
idential area, could have at least 
one connection to the Internet. 
Nobel Laureate Herbert A. Simon 
was the final speaker at the event, 
summing what arguments had 
taken place that day, in addition to 
talking about the future of our 
planet in a manner deeply con
cerned with the concepts of eco
nomics and artificial intelligence.
Two question and answer ses
sions were held during the sympo
sium, where the audience could 
fire questions at all of the speakers. 
Some issues addressed included 
the emergence of concepts such as 
file sharing with Napster, in addi
tion to what technology could actu
ally look like in fifty years. All in all, 
the symposium was a success in 
the sense that the wide array of 
speakers on show, all from different 
fields, effectively managed to pre
sent a vision of the future.
Students who attended also 
enjoyed the event.
Aditya Agarwal, freshman in 
computer science, said It was 
indeed a privilege to be able to lis
ten to so many distinguished fig
ures from the computing world at 
one time.
Community service project enables 
radio inside the Squirrel Hill tunnel
by Sriram Goliapalli
Science & Technology Editor
Now, when you drive through the Squirrel Hill tun
nel, you may notice that your radio doesnt go into the 
mysterious tunnel void of silence. A community service 
project under the direction of Dan Stancil, professor of 
electrical and computer engineering, helped make this 
a reality. His son, Brian, a computer science major at 
Virginia Tech, got some students together and 
approached the Pennsylvania Department of 
Transportation (PennDOT) with their idea to wire the 
Squirrel Hill tunnel.
Everybody was really enthuiastic, said Stancil.
; The inbound lanes wiring has been up and running 
for several weeks. The outbound lanes were scheduled 
to be working over the past weekend.
; An antenna placed outside the tunnel transmits the
radio signal to an amplifier. Then the signal is carried 
along an interior antenna running through the tunnel 
air ducts.
Currently, the service is only FM. According to Tom 
Diddle, tunnel manager for the Pennsylvania 
Department of Transportation, the AM signal inter
fered with the controls for the tunnel fans.
The projects cost was $2,800 for wiring both sides of the 
tunnel - lower than a commercial bid of about $60,000.
Stancil talked to some of his graduate and under
graduate students about doing the work. The student 
group furnished labor and equipment; PennDOT had 
to buy the materials.
The father son team worked well together. [My 
father] was also integral in pulling this operation off, 
said Brian Stancil.
Plans are under way to wire the Fort Pitt and Liberty 
tunnels for sound as well, although theres no time 
frame for these projects.
Will CD-R and CD-RW become the 
Floppy of the Future?
Surya Singh
Fifteen years ago, the common method of sharing 
files was a square piece of plastic, five and a quarter 
inches a side. This floppy disk held either 360 kilo
bytes or 1.2 megabytes, depending on which type 
was being used. With todays ever-increasing need 
for removable storage however, CD-R and CD-RW 
may become as popular as the floppy disk was in its 
heyday.
CD-R and CD-RW are acronyms that stand for 
Compact Disc-Recordable and Compact Disc 
-ReWriteable respectively. Both CD-R and CD-RW 
, drives are extensions to the standard CD-ROM 
(Compact Disc Read Only Memory) drive format 
found in most computers. These two systems are 
related to each other and present the consumer with 
a wide number of upgrade choices.
The key feature of CD-R and CD-RW drives over 
their now commonplace relative the CD-ROM drive 
is their ability to write data to a disc. CD-R media can 
be written once only to any particular area on the 
disc. CD-RW drives build on the CD-R standard and 
allow the user to write and rewrite to any particular 
area on a CD-RW disc many times. Most CD record
able drives available today have rewriteable features 
and can process both CD-R and CD-RW media.
However, a CD recordable must have rewriteable 
features to rewrite CD-RW discs. In other words, a 
CD-RW drive can rewrite CD-RW media and write 
CD-R discs, and a CD-R only drive cannot process 
CD-RW media.
One of the caveats with CD-R media is that once 
its has been written or marked, it can never be 
erased. Thus, working with CD-R media is quite sim
ilar to writing everything with a permanent ink pen:
Nothing can ever be erased. Moreover, if a mistake is 
made, the whole process must be restarted and the 
erroneous disc is simply trashed. It was because of 
this vexing problem that CD-RW technology, using 
phase-change media, was developed.
CD-R and CD-RW drives, unlike most drives, can 
record in a variety of formats, each of which effects 
the final utility of the finished disc. The most com
mon CD-R and CD-RW formats are as follows:
1. The Packet Writing Format - This means of 
using the disc allows for the disc to easily act as a 
removable media drive. If CD-RW media is used, the 
drive responds and acts as a diskette or Zip drive 
would. However, the disc first needs to be formatted 
to the Universal Data Format (UDF) format style 
which reduces the storage capacity to approximately 
550 MB. CD-R packet written discs can be read by 
any CD-ROM drive as long as they are at least tem
porarily closed. If the UDF drivers are installed on a 
PC, a CD-RW packet written disc can be read by most 
modern CD-ROM drives as long as they support 
packet reading.
2. Standard Data Track Format - This creates a CD 
data disc similar to most CD-ROM disc distributed 
with software. This format allows the user to store 
the full 640 MB that the disc can hold; however, the 
disc data must processed using a. CD recording appli
cation (e.g., Adaptecs CD Creator) and can not be 
written to directly.
3. The Audio Track/Multisession Format - This is 
the standard means by which digitized forms of 
audio are added to CD discs. However, each time a 
series of songs are recorded, a new session is creat
ed. For a multisession to be read, the CD player 
must support the multisession format.
Why is CD recording such a complex system?
Basically, it stems from the history of CD technology.
CD technology was invented by Phillips Electronics 
and others almost two decades ago. The original CDs 
started out as an optical incarnation of long-playing 
vinyl records (LPs). For this reason, CDs, unlike 
diskette, and hard drives, read/write along a contin
uous, spiraling track instead of sectors. Thus, the dri
ves vary their speed or collect more information as 
data is read at various points on the disc because on 
the outside, more media goes by for a given angu
lar velocity. However, data storage is best done using
Justin Suissa/Art Editor J
a sector or packet based approach and not the spiraltrack approach of CDs. To accommodate data, CDs i 
often place all their data in the first track, along J 
with a table of contents that stores information 
about all the files and where they are located. Even  
the speed ratings of most drives are a product of CD 
history as drive multipliers (e.g., 32x) are in propor
tion to the speed of the first drives that operated at a 
rate of 150 kilobytes per second.
Another reason for the great popularity of CD 
recorders is their economies of scale, which makes 
them extremely cost competitive for the storage of a 
large amount of data. CD-R discs or media cost about 
one dollar per disc and CD-RW discs are approxi
mately 5 dollars a disc. This results in exceptionally 
low unit costs,'or cost per megabyte (measured in 
cents/MB). CD-R discs have a unit cost of less than 
1/6 cents/MB and CD-RW disc have a unit cost near 
1 cents/MB. In comparison, hard drives have a unit 
cost ranging between 3 and 6 cents/MB and Iomega 
Zip disks have a unit cost almost 100 times greater 
than CD-R (i.e, 12 cents/MB). In addition to. cost, 
CD-R and CD-RW are gaining popularity because of 
their backward compatibility with the CD-ROM 
standard. This allows distribution of data on CD-R 
discs to a wide number of users without having to 
worry if the user has the right drive to read the 
media.
CD-R and CD-RW systems however, are not per
fect. One key disadvantage is that CD-R and CD-RW 
drives can be somewhat expensive. For example, CDRW drives range from $150 to $400 depending on 
the drives speed and interface. A second disadvan- : 
tage with CD-R and CD-RW drives is that they are , 
relatively slow. Most of these drives operate only : 
four to eight times the speed of the original CD-ROM 
specification. Thus, even the fastest CD recorders are i 
5-10 times slower (while writing) than a hard drive I 
and 2-3 times slower than CD-ROM readers.
In terms of marketability and support, CD-R and  
CD-RW have not seen a major advertising campaign ! 
nor have they been endorsed as standard equipment i 
by any major computer vendor. Nonetheless, CD-R 
and CD-RW drives have generated a great deal of ; 
end user support and are increasing tremendously in I 
popularity. Since CD-R and CD-RW are not propri- i 
etary standards, there is a great deal of competition I 
between a number of CD-R and CD-RW manufac- < 
tures. This competition should not only lower the 
prices on the drives, but may help CD-R and CD-RW 
become more widely accepted in the computing 
industry.
In summary, the complexity of todays software 
and the data files associated with it, has grown expo
nentially. One of the most promising and cost effec
tive solutions could be the CD-R and CD-RW system. 
However, for this technology to replace the floppy 
the price of the drives must come down and perfor
mance must be increased.
Smart musical diapers
There are smart cards, 
smart drinks, and now ... 
smart diapers? Well, a 
company in Connecticut 
claims it has a way to rev
olutionize potty training.
The system, called Wee 
Train, features dispos
able diapers with a spe
cial pocket for a minia
ture wetness detector.
At the first sign of mois
ture, the tiny microchip 
begins to sing a little 
song.
The manufacturer says 
not only will these 
singing diapers save par
ents money by speeding 
up potty training, but 
theyre good for the envi
ronment too. Earlier potty 
training means fewer 
soiled diapers to fill up 
the countrys landfills.
These nifty nappies wont 
be on the market for about.six 
months. The companys presi
dent says theyre still con
sumer testing for the best
Lindsay Clark/Art Staff
song.
So far, Disneys Its a Small 
World seems to be in the lead. 
Would it be so wrong to suggest 
Singing in the Rain?
Source: National Public Radio.
Biomedical Security Institute created for research
BMSI, from page Al
Response Initiative. Second, BMSI is developing 
a prototype computer-based surveillance, analy
sis, and communication systems infrastructure 
to perform continuing real-time data mining 
and analysis to help provide early warnings of 
threats or events. Third, the institute is develop
ing a research program that integrates the latest 
research and technology in public health, bio
medical sciences, biomedical informatics, and 
information sciences.
The Biomedical Security Institute mostly 
operates virtually, as researchers work at their 
respective institutions and organizations while 
collaborating with fellow researchers from other 
institutions.
The institutes founders said the nation needs 
the BMSI researchers collaborative efforts for 
three reasons. One is the threat posed by biolog
ical agents to national security and to the health 
of the American public. Another is that there is 
no existing system to facilitate rapid and accu
rate assessment and communication in the 
event of infectious disease outbreaks or acts of 
bioterrorism. Finally, BMSI can serve as a model 
for disease prevention throughout the US, 
improving the nations public health infrastruc
ture.
Members of the BMSI said the institute is nec
essary because it provides the nation with valu
able biomedical information. The research and 
technology cover at least five main topics,
including biosensors for diagnostics and surveil
lance; biomedical research for the.identification 
and characterization of etiological agents, 
genetic sequencing, immune system responses, 
therapeutics, and clinical care; cognitive and 
behavioral factors, risk communications, human 
system interfaces, and post-traumatic stress dis
order, and intelligent systems, data mining, arti
ficial intelligence and informatics; and public 
health policy analysis, response, and trainig.
Victor Weedn, M.D., J.D., the head of 
Carnegie Mellons Biotechnology and Health 
Initiatives and an internationally known expert 
in forensic DNA typing, said he is excited by the 
cooperation between the two universities. We 
[will] combine Carnegie Mellons leadership in 
information technology with Pitts excellence in 
medicine, medical technology, bioinformatics, 
and public health research/ said Weedn, co
director of the institute.
The CDC and the Agency for Healthcare 
Research and Quality (AHRQ) currently fund 
BMSI. The CDC and AHRQ are part of the 
Department of Health and Human Services. 
BMSI received a grant of more than $900,000 
from the CDC after BMSI and CDC entered into 
a long-term cooperative agreement to address 
bioterrorism issues, including developing a wide 
range of laboratory and information technolo
gies. BMSI received more than $1 million from 
AHRQ to investigate the use of technology to 
improve clinical preparedness in hospitals and
other public health organizations to respond to. 
acts of bioterrorism.
Samuel Watson, M.A.I.A., director of the 
University of Pittsburghs Public Health and' 
Bioterrorism Response Program in Pitts 
Graduate School of Public Health and co-direc
tor of the institute, said he is proud of the 
efforts of collaborating researchers. 
Pittsburgh is a new home to national resources 
against bioterrorism. This is another example of 
the excellence and scientific capability found 
here and our emphasis in building collaborative 
teams of researchers from both universities," 
said Watson.
The BMSI draws on many resources for its 
function. The institute is a center of information 
technologies and biomedical research from the 
Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center, the Center 
for Automated Learning and Discovery, 
University of Pittsburghs Center for Biomedical 
Informatics, Carnegie Mellon Research 
Institute, the Allegheny County Health 
Department, the Veterans Administration 
Hospital, and the University of Pittsburgh 
Medical Center (UPMC).
Anushka Nethisinghe, a junior computer sci
ence major said she appreciates the collabora
tive nature of the Biomedical Security Institute. 
When I leave Carnegie Mellon University, I 
want to perform biotechnology research. I look 
forward to being part of a collaborating team to 
complete a research project, said Nethisinghe.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 30. 2000
Review Corner: Card Access Wristband Thinmodem Handspring Module
Ish Harshawat
The main attraction of Card Accesss 
Wristband Thinmodem module for the 
Handspring Visor is implied in its name. The 
module, which retails for $119.95, is so slim 
and small that it adds virtually no weight to 
your Visor once installed. For this reason, it 
is probably a more attractive optipn than 
Handsprings own bulky modem.
Installation is as simple as plugging in the 
module into the Visor, and then plugging in 
the dongle, which allows you to hook up to a 
phone jack. The six-foot cord should be ade
quate for most users, but could always be 
extended with the use of a coupler and a 
longer cable.
Once plugged in, four programs appear in 
your applications menu. The first of these, 
the Thinmodem Setup program, runs imme
diately. The setup allows you to tweak 
modem, dial, and network settings. I had a 
little trouble connecting to the CMU dial-up 
pool at first but after changing some of the IP 
settings I got it to work.Browse-it, the provided web application 
resizes web pages for you to view on your 
Visor. Personally, I would suggest users get AvantGo to supplement this, as it provides 
several useful Palm-only web pages that 
work a little better for getting the informa
tion you need.Online is a terminal application that is 
shareware, and after 10 days it will be dis
abled. I telnet a lot into Unix servers to use 
Pine so I thought I might do that with my 
Visor using the Thinmodem and Online pro
gram. I dialed up to the CMU pool, logged in, 
and then telnetted into a server. You cant see 
the whole terminal screen on your screen 
and the font is really small. You can use the 
stylus to move to the edges of the actual 
screen. Using Pine was a little bit of a pain - 
dont expect to use your stylus to just tap on 
the menu options. Everything relies on graf
fiti keystrokes.
A much better way to check my mail was 
using the other built-in shareware applica
tion that came with the Thinmodem: MultiMail. MultiMail is IMAP compatible, 
which means it will work with CMU stu
dents Cyrus accounts. I was able to down
load all the headers in my inbox (over one 
thousand) in the matter of a few minutes. 
Downloading a message took no more than 
20 seconds, and sending a short message 
took about the same amount of time. A fea
ture that I did not expect that came with MultiMail was the ability to send a variety of 
attachments. I was able to send a document
that I had typed up on my Visor (using the j 
Stowaway Keyboard) as an email attachment | 
to someone, and it worked perfectly. In gen- | 
eral, MultiMail is a really robust program ; 
and is worth registering.
Another nice feature is the ability to pull j 
up a status screen by clicking on the bottom | 
right hand corner of the magnifying glass on ' 
the Visor. The screen shows the total number 
of bytes sent and received, how long you ! 
have been connected, and your connection 
speed.
The Thinmodem, like other modules, will i 
use your Visor battery. Don't freak out when : 
you see your battery power go from 100% to i 
50% as soon as you insert the module, as this j 
will happen whenever you insert the 
Thinmodem in the Visor. It will return to a j 
more reasonable number after you take the j 
module out. The Thinmodem has special 
power-saving features and doesnt really eat 
up that much batter power. In addition it 
wont drain your battery when you aren't 
connected.
The Thinmodem is great for people on the 
go that frequent hotels or airports a lot with 
a dial-up account. Card Access will-release a 
patch in the future for free that will upgrade 
the current 33.6k connection speed to 55.6k.
Scientists hope bursts will 
reveal origins of universe
Science and Technology BriefsResearch hopesto predict quakes with technology
The 15-second earthquake that devas
tated Northridge, California in 1994 col
lapsed freeway bridges, parking garages 
and dwellings killed 51 people, injured 
9,000 and left 23,000 homeless. Damages 
totaled more than $40 billion, making the 
quake one of the costliest disasters in US 
history.
With funding from the National Science 
Foundation (NSF), the Quake Project team 
at CMU is studying past earthquakes and 
hoping to prevent losses from future ones.
The researchers are running computer 
simulations of earth movements observed 
during events like the Northridge quake. 
They will use these simulations to create 
models of quake areas, which will forecast 
how quakes in those areas might react.
The goal of the Quake Project isnt to pre
dict earthquake events. We are not trying
to predict when and where a quake will 
occur, but what the resulting ground 
motions would be, civil and environmental 
engineering professor Jacobo Bielak said. 
For instance, if a geologist can tell us there 
is X percent probability of a 6.3 magnitude 
[quake] on a particular fault in the Los 
Angeles Basin, we want to generate a map 
that would forecast the distribution of 
ground motions.
The way buildings are designed, con
structed and retrofitted can then be tailored 
accordingly to minimize earthquake dam
age. Those structures in hot spots  
where the shaking is liable to be worst  
could be made extra-resilient. All could be 
built to better withstand the frequencies 
theyre most likely to experience.
The project is developing models for the 
Los Angeles and San Francisco Bay Area. 
Earthquakes are most dangerous in valleys 
and basins like these, where cities are built 
on soft soils made of clay, silt or sand. 
During an earthquake, this springy soil jig
gles like a bowl of Jell-O.
One of the tasks of the project is to cre
ate 3-D visualization of huge datasets of 
information from past earthquakes. An
animation might show shock waves 
blooming underground in one color and 
surface soil dancing in a corner of the 
basin in another.E&HS dept, starts computer recycling
There is a new Computer Reuse and 
Recycling Program from part of the 
Enivironmental and Health Safety (E&HS) 
department. If you want to dispose of a 
computer that is still in working condition, 
call the Carnegie Mellon Computer 
Maintenance Group at 268-2661. They will 
arrange for computers to be picked up by 
Goodwill Industries.
Computers that are no longer in working 
condition will be picked up on campus once 
per month and taken for recycling. To find 
out more information and request for your 
computer to be picked up, go to http://www.cmu. edu/ehs/co mprecycle.html 
and fill out the online form.
Compiled by 
Sriram Gollapalli
(U-WIRE) BERKELEY, Calif. - Led 
by a University of California Berkeley 
scientist, an international team of 
astronomers has detected the after
glow of an 11-billion-year-old gamma 
ray burst that sheds light on the uni
verse at its youngest age.
UC Berkeley physicist Kevin Hurley, 
collaborating with other 
astronomers, found that light result
ing from a cosmic explosion of a 
dying star had to travel 11 billion 
years to reach the Earth. The estimat
ed age of the universe is 12 to 14 bil
lion years, which suggests that this 
burst of light came from a time when 
the universe was only one-tenth its 
present age.
This measurement allows us to 
look deeper into the universe than 
before, said Hurley, who works at UC 
Berkeleys Space Sciences Laboratory. 
We dont yet know what we will find 
exactly, but it is bound to be interest
ing.
The gamma ray burst, named GRB 
000131, came from the southern con
stellation Carina and was first spotted 
on January 31. After eight months of 
investigation, the burst of light was 
determined to be more distant than 
any high-energy flare ever observed.
Until now, the farthest gamma ray 
burst  to be detected was found in 
1997, when American and Italian sci
entists witnessed a large flare of 
gamma rays tracing back 9 billion 
years.
The light from this gigantic flash 
had traveled 11 billion years before 
reaching the earth and suggests that 
these explosive objects may provide 
us with the longest yardsticks yet for 
detecting and studying galaxies in the 
early universe, Hurley said.
The international team announced 
its finding Wednesday at the Science 
of Gamma-Ray Bursts conference in 
Rome. The team expects to publish 
the results this December in the 
European science journal Astronomy 
and Astrophysics.
Gamma rays have very high energy, 
and the bursts remain mysterious to 
scientists, who have speculated that 
the high-energy flashes of light are 
the result of gigantic explosions tak
ing place around the universe.
The burst most likely came from 
the explosion of a gigantic star 30 
times more massive than the sun,
scientists said.
A gamma ray is a very energetic Xray, Hurley said. (It is) probably the 
explosion of a very massive star.
Lasting only a few seconds, a 
gamma ray burst releases more ener
gy in that short time than the sun does 
during its entire lifetime.
The bursts cannot be seen from 
Earth because the atmosphere 
absorbs them, but special satellites 
equipped with gamma ray burst 
detectors can detect traces of the 
high-energy radiation.
A cluster of satellites called the 
Interplanetary Network discovered 
the bursts. The satellites are distrib
uted throughout the solar system. 
Hurley was the principal investigator 
of the gamma ray burst experiment on 
the NASA Ulysses spacecraft, one in 
the network of spacecrafts that collab
orated in the investigation.
The Ulysses spacecraft passes over 
the suns poles, making it possible to 
study and explore the suns environ
ment. It is the only spacecraft to have 
visited the unique region above and 
below the poles of the sun.
We observe and study gamma rays 
from space, because they dont pene
trate the earths atmosphere, Hurley 
said. We use a form of X-ray detector. 
We get the position in the sky by com
paring signals at various spacecraft 
(triangulation). We get the distance 
from optical observations of the redshift.
Investigators determined the age of 
the light using the photometric redshift method, which uses colors to 
determine the distance the gamma 
ray afterglow had to travel to reach 
detectors.
This method takes advantage of the 
Doppler effect, where, just as the 
pitch of a siren lowers as it recedes, 
light becomes redder as its source 
recedes. The farther away an object is, 
the redder its wavelengths.
In the future, the scientists said 
they hope to determine the exact 
galaxy where the burst originated by 
examining the lights surroundings.
We have other spacecraft just 
launched, and about to be launched, 
to continue this work, Hurley said.
Other spacecraft in the network 
that detected the blast include NASAs 
Near Earth Asteroid Rendezvous and 
the Italian Bepposax spacecraft.
CREEK WEEK 2000
Schedule of Events
Opening Ceremonies
Monday Oct. 30, 7:00pm-8:30pm 
CFA Lawn (rain location: Skibo Gym)
Greek BBQ & Olympics
Tuesday Oct. 31, 5:00pm-8:00pm 
Fraternity Quadrangle 
(rain location: Skibo Gym)
Indian Benefit Lunch
Wednesday Nov. 1, 12:00pm-4:00pm 
Wean Hall, 5th Floor Entrance
Bachelor/Bachelorette Auction
Thursday Nov. 2, 7:00pm-10:00pm 
University Center - Rangos 2
Band Wars
Friday Nov. 3, 6:30pm-10:30pm 
Club Laga
Delta Gamma Anchor Slam
Saturday, Nov. 4, l:30pm-4:30pm 
Skibo Gym
Sandwich Making for the Homeless
Sunday, Nov. 5, 12:00-3:00pm 
West Wing TV Lounge

---------------------------------------------------

THIS PRODUCT 
MAY CAUSE MOUTH CANCER
The Legend Continues
Introducing the rich, smooth taste of New Bourbon-Flavored Copenhagen Black.
 ' h.
Fresh Cope. It satisfies*
t; of U.S. Toba

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment
30 October 2000THE TARTANPage B7
Chicago musician attracts big CMU crowd
CONCERT REVIEW
by Brad Grantz
Business Editor
Every musical movement has its 
corresponding hairstyle. The 
1970s featured the long hair of the 
rock-and-roll band. The 1980s 
brought the frizzy, big-ass hair for 
women in rock (Heart) to pop 
(Cindy Lauper). The men of the 
80s in heavy metal showcased the 
wonderful style known as the mul
let, the short on top, long in the 
back expression. If we define 
music by the skulls helmet, then 
Wesley Willis must then represent 
the counter-culture movement 
with his anti-mullet rhetoric (Cut 
the Mullet).
The 6'4", 350-plus pound, impos
ing Willis recently appeared at 
what appeared to be my junior 
high friends clubhouse, but was in 
fact the Millvale Industrial 
Theater. His unique music has a 
cult following across college cam
puses due largely to the influence 
of computer programs such as 
Napster and Scour. Willis defines 
his style as rock; however, the 
rock and country beat of his 
Technics KN2000 keyboard, gives 
his listening audience, of which 
almost half were CMU faithful, a 
nice and easy way to find the foottapping or body-gyrating rhythm. 
For a short time, Willis released 
several albums with his band, the 
Fiasco. However, the idea of Willis 
with a band takes away from the 
true alternative feel of his style, the 
alternating tones and speed of the 
same background, prepro
grammed beat. The solo Willis has 
released a number of more songs 
than would be allowed with his 
backup band, but they all include 
the usual one minute and forty sec
onds of keyboard interlude, which 
can become tiring for the Willis 
novice.
Williss music not only gives him 
his much-needed release from his 
'cfemons, but also allows Kis fans 
to escape from their own trite, 
commercialized surroundings and 
see the world through a much dif
ferent perspective. Willis music 
includes material rarely 
approached from the mainstream 
music arena, where boy bands and 
female poop [sic] idols express 
themselves as much through the 
image as their so-called lyrics
Courtesy of Heather Greco
Wesley Willis performed last Wednesday at the Millvale Industrial Theatre. The crowd was full of CMU students.
about some one-night stand or the 
gawking eyes of a group of selfrighteous guys, respectively of 
course.
Williss concert included a num
ber of strained-singing/spoken 
songs where he ranted in an 
attempt to shoot down the demons 
that constantly turn his joyride 
into a hell ride. He commanded 
the demons to suck a kangaroos 
ass, sometimes suggesting they 
might use a condiment to make 
their ass-sucking experience some
what more tasty, whether it be 
Heinz tomato ketchup or Miracle 
Whip. Despite the numerous songs 
about ass and penis sucking, the 
audience was nonetheless 
extremely enthused to hear Willis 
witticisms. Willis also took time to 
address one of his favorite topics, 
^public transportation. An accom
plished artist, Willis has sold 
numerous pictures from his home
less days of cityscapes, the vast 
majority of which include some 
type of bus. He told the citys bus 
drivers to suck his Dobermans 
dick.
He communicated very well 
with the crowd, able to respond to 
shouts from his fanatics asking for 
a specific song. For example, one
Willis admirer requested Rock n 
Roll McDonalds. Willis in turn 
began to refer to lyrics within the 
ditty. While this may seem incohsequential, the word choice of Willis 
is what gives him credibility as a 
creative artist. An everyday Joe 
may say the driver of a stolen car 
sped away, but when this trans
lates into Wes-speak, it becomes 
the imaginative hyperbole of he 
drove away the stolen car in hot 
pursuit. While only a small frag
ment of the incomparable song 
Kris Kringle Was a Car Thief, it 
provides a glimpse into the demo
nized mind of Willis.
While Willis concert was mainly 
comprised of new material, he did 
treat the audience with one of his 
most revered tunes, Cut the 
Mullet, His enthusiastic attitude 
during the melody was no doubt 
appreciated from the raucous 
observers, who were forced to 
undergo the monotonous and 
downright criminal band, Blissful 
Idiots, and the unpolished Causey 
Way. Give credit to the nights 
opening duo, the Grand Buffet, 
who_ engaged the crowd with their 
upbeat rap songs and canned Ice T 
oratory to which they designed 
their performance. While the two
rappers at first glance looked as 
dorky as a church group, they grew 
on the audience with the constant 
references to how cool the one 
songsters mustache was. No 
doubt, all the coolest folk through
out the ages have worn the facial 
hair below the nose, with the 
exception of my dad and 
Gallagher.
During the closing of the show, 
Willis began to hawk his wares 
while on stage. A substantial part 
of Willis income is derived from 
his aggressive salesmanship. 
Willis wit was exemplified when 
one his devotees shouted that he 
only had two dollars for Williss ten 
dollar CD. Willis retorted back, 
saying, Find eight mo dollars or 
get the f out! to a round of 
shouts and applause that the fan 
should find eight more dollars.
Williss performance was truly 
an experience, unable to be dou
bled by possibly any other artist 
other than Jimmy Buffet. From 
Williss chants of rah and rayl 
to Tiis friendly head-butt greetings, 
it was the immense, schizophrenic, 
Wesley Willis. Rock over London. 
Rock on Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. 
Heinz, its Americas favorite 
ketchup.
Wesley Willis discusses his career, demons
by Brad Grantz
Business Editor
In 1989, Wesley Willis and his mother were robbed in his Chicago Housing Authority apartment. The thief, often thought to be Willisstepfather, emptied out Wesleys savings account of $100. Shortly thereafter, Willis was diagnosed with schizophrenia.Willis has been unable to overcome the event and is constantly haunted by the demons of the traumatic event. He turns to his music and artwork in an attempt to escape from the hell rides he undergoes.Despite his cult celebrity status, many people have misconceptions about his mental being. To create a clearer impression, he recently sat down with The Tartan to discuss his life but still suffered from occasional hell rides during the interview.
The Tartan: How would you define your 
music?Wesley Willis: Its rock.
IT: Where do you get your inspiration for your 
songs?
WW: I just do my job to keep out of trouble. I 
dont have time to be locked up in jail. I dont 
have time to hurt anybody with guns. I dont got 
any time to carry any ammunition.
TT: Where did you get your inspiration for 
Birdman Kicked My Ass? [Editor note: Willis Birdman Kicked My Ass" song appeared on his 
Greatest Hits volume II album.]WW: I made it up.
Bryan Kaplan/Photo Editor
When he wasn't performing, Willis greeted fans 
with headbutts and signed autographs.
TT: How many albums have you released?WW: Ive released 30 albums.
TT: How many songs?WW: Ive released 5,000 songs. Excuse me for 
hitting myself in the head ... Ive just got demon 
problems. Im haunted by demons in my head 
tying me up with profanity. My music used to 
pick me up, but now Ive been shot down.
TT: But your music has not been picking you 
up lately?WW: Hell'no.
TT: Do you think it will tonight?WW: It will.
TT: If you could do one other thing besides be 
a rock star, what do you think it would be?.WW: Id just be a rock star.
TT: Wesley, whats a Magikist? [a frequently 
used word in Willis songs]WW: Its a carpet cleaner!
TT: Is it?WW: Damn!
TT: Whats your favorite ketchup? Is it Heinz? [Willis closes out all of his songs with a well-known radio or television advertising slogan. Heinz  Its Americas favorite ketchup is one of his endings.]WW: Yeah.
TT: Have you ever been to Pittsburgh before 
this visit?WW: Ive been in Pittsburgh four times.
TT: Do you like Pittsburgh?
WW: Im sorry for hurting myself.
[Unintelligible] tell me dont hurt myself.
TT: Do you like Pittsburgh? Whats your 
favorite part about it [the city]?WW: I like the whole city. No questions'asked.
TT: You did? Do you make up most of your JT: How did you get shot down? TT: Have you ever been to Carnegie Mellon
songs? WW: My demons shot my joy ride down. My University?WW: Yeah I made it up. - demons made my joy ride into a hell ride. WW: Hell no.
TT: How did you get to this point in your life? JT: When did the demons come?
How did you become a rock star?WW: Ive been a rock star for 15 years.
TT: 15 years?WW: Yeah.
TT: Hawd it start?WW: I just keep busy and work hard.
WW: They came on October 2,1989.
TT: Do you know why they come?WW: [Unintelligible] come and put the gun to 
my head and took my money and then smoked it 
up on that cocaine. [Unintelligible] come and 
put the gun to my head and took my money. 
Thats why the demons came.
TT: Would you sing us a song about it...WW: Im not going to, Im not going to waste 
my time. And if I do, I might put myself in the 
middle of a graveyard ... I better not risk it.
TT: You sing a lot about buses. Where does 
that theme come from?WW: I dream them up in my head.
see WILLIS, page B8
BY ANDY FRANCIS
Better Living Through Circuitry
Thursday, November 2
Kicking off the unofficial Glow Sticks Week at the 
McConomy moviehouse is Better Living Through Circuitry,  
movie about raves and the people who love them. The film 
deals with electronic music, DJs, dancers, and of course, 
drugs, but overall portrays these semi-legal dance-fests in a 
positive light.
Remember when Prodigy came out and the media was say
ing how electrnica was going to be the next big thing? That 
worked out about as well as when we tried to convert to the 
metric system. Its a shame that Americans werent intelli
gent enough to switch over  its really the way to go. Not 
only would we eliminate units like the acre and the 
dram, (you dont even know what a dram is, do you? Me 
neither) but I think wed also get cool spellings like colour 
and "centre" as part of the package.
As long as Im completely off the subject, let me bring up 
the fact that whenever you open Mulberry on-campus, the 
opening screen says Mulberry, and right next to it is a sigh 
that reads E-MAIL IS MY LIFE. Hopefully the Loser Police 
caught both the guy who thought that up and his buddy who 
said Yeah, lets put that in the code. Itll be funny!
At 8 pm, 10 pm, and midnight 
In McConomy Auditorium
Shaft
Friday, November 3
Kicking off Isaac Hayes Week at the McConotheatre is Shaft, 
which features one of the best-known theme songs in movie 
history. And no, Im not going to quote it or try some pun involv
ing the phrase one bad mother.
Shaft is probably the best known film in the Blaxploitation 
genre, which features other popular favorites like Dolemite, 
Foxy Brown, and Malcolm X. This 1971 film centers around 
black private detective John Shaft (Richard Roundtree) who 
has to fight mobsters of various ethnicities and eventually help 
one of them (named Bumpy) get his daughter back, while at 
the same time landing as many women as possible.
Although most sequels, like the ones that followed Shaft, 
bomb pretty loudly, I cant help but think that comedies should 
do better when its sequel time, for several reasons. First off is 
that fact that good comedies have better rewatch value than 
pretty much everything with the possible exception of porn; 
people plop down in front of flicks like Theres Something About 
Mary and American Pie numerous times and never get tired, so 
how great should they be with all new jokes? The second factor 
comes from my recently advanced theory that all humor can be 
attributed to two things: repetition and stubbornness. I chal
lenge anyone to find me something really funny that doesnt 
have one of those traits, and if you do, I promise you a reward 
of me not admitting Im wrong.
Also, the original Shaft isnt even playing this weekend. The 
remake is.
At 7:30 pm, 10 pm, and 12:30 am 
In McConomy Auditorium
Gone in 60 Seconds
Saturday, November 4
Email is my life!
At 7:30 pm, 10 pm, and 12:30 am 
In McConomy Auditorium
The Computer Who Wore Tennis Shoes
Sunday, November 5
Kicking off Unappealing Movie Titles Week is The Computer 
Who Wore Tennis Shoes, which stars a young Kurt Russell as col
lege student/celibacy practitioner Dexter Riley (email is his 
life.) His world gets flip-turned upside-down when a freak acci
dent happens to him while hes trying to fix a computer. 
Naturally, this gets him in trouble with a local gangster (played 
by Cesar Romero of Batman television fame.) Thats twice 
this week for the angry mobsters, folks. Just once Id like to see 
a movie where someone does something inadvertendy and the 
Mob either doesnt care or doesnt notice. Surely Don Corleone 
had bigger and better things to spend his time on than kids 
named Dexter.
Speaking of people named Dexter, boy, do I hate it when I try 
to check Mulberry and I get that message that says e-mail is my 
life. Now that I reflect on it, theres not really that many things 
worth hating, Ive noticed  I could probably concoct a list of 
only about 10 or so, and most of them would be little minor 
things like people wearing nose plugs in the pool. A bigger one 
would be this chick I knew in high school; Id print her name in 
this space, but Ive held a number of conversations with her and 
theres no evidence that she has the ability to read, so Im not 
going to waste my time.
Well, now all I can think about is things to complain about it, 
and thats no fun, huh? Oh well, one more thing and Im done; 
this is borderline Public Service Announcement. If you are 
walking on campus and at any time you feel a need to sing in an 
operatic or Broadway musical-style voice, please, please don't. 
This is for you as much as it is for me.
At 8 pm, 10 pm, and midnight 
In McConomy Auditorium

---------------------------------------------------

B8THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 30, 2000
 Warner Brothers and Bel-Air Pictures
Movie may not bedazzle audience but it made the critic laugh
by Ryan Friedman
Staffwriter
Would you sell your soul for an 
evening with Elizabeth Hurley? 
Never fear, because you dont need 
to contract with the devil to make 
this fantasy a reality. All you need is 
a ticket to Twentieth Century Foxs 
new comedy Bedazzled which stars 
both Elizabeth Hurley and Brendan 
Fraser.
The film is a charming, semi
romantic comedy that is easy to fol
low and amusing to watch. Keep in 
mind, though, that this movie is not 
a quality cinematic milestone, just a 
simple comedy that requires little 
thought or effort  just perfect 
after a stressful week of midterms! Bedazzled is rated PG-13, meaning 
that it is a safe movie to take your 
mother to see and has nothing that 
could be interpreted as being offen
sive by anyone other than the mass
es of excessively politically-correct 
students from the 1994 movie PCU.Bedazzled is centers around Elliot 
Richards (Fraser), a geeky, sociallyinept technical support advisor.
Richards is consumed with unre
quited love and desperate to change 
his life but does not know how. The 
object of his affections is female co
worker Alison Gardner (Frances 
OConnor) who barely even knows 
he exists.
In order to make his dreams come 
true, Richards strikes a deal with 
the devil (Hurley) who grants him 
seven wishes in exchange for his 
soul. Nonetheless, we discover that 
the devil has a wicked sense of 
humor in that something goes terri
bly wrong in each one of Elliots 
wishes.
For example, for his first wish 
Elliot asks to be rich, powerful, and 
married to Alison. His fantasy 
comes true when the devil turns 
him into a Colombian drug lord. To 
make matters worse, he is married 
to Alison, but she does not love him 
and cheats on him on a continual 
basis. Elliot goes through all his 
other wishes in a similar fashion, 
the devil always one step ahead of 
him.
I found most of Elliots adven
tures to be amusing and entertain
ing. However, I was hoping that the
writers would have included a little 
bit more risky humor by putting the 
main character in more awkward 
situations. Some of the jokes were 
not incredibly funny and I found 
that the film relied mostly on situa
tional humor instead of witty comi
cal remarks. An illustration of this 
flaw is in the Columbian lord scene 
yvhere all of the characters speak 
Spanish, including Elliot, and subti
tles are put in place so the audience 
can follow along. Elliot, unaware 
that he can now speak Spanish, tells 
the first character in perfect use of 
the language that he does not speak 
Spanish and does not understand. 
Shocked with the realization that 
he can now speak the language per
fectly, Elliot continues with the 
scene, which in my opinion, was the 
funniest in the movie. Dont be 
frightened into thinking that just 
because the film is rated PG-13 it 
wont be funny. I found the tasteful 
jokes in Bedazzled to be funny and 
entertaining though I would have 
prefered the use of riskier and dirti
er humor.
Final Grade: B
In the film Bedazzled, the Devil (Elizabeth Hurley) entices Elliot (Brendan Fraser) into a pact in which he gives up 
his soul in exchange for seven wishes.
Wesley Willis shares his view on public transportation, politics, World Series
WILLIS, from page B8
TT: And you do a lot of artwork with 
buses dont you?WW: Yes I do.
TT: How many pictures do you have of 
buses?
WW: 45,000.
TT: How long does it take you to draw a 
picture of a bus or any of the scenes that you 
have done?WW: It takes me 20 minutes.
TT: Whom do you think you will vote for 
President?
WW: George Bush.
TT: George Bush?
WW: Ill vote for A1 Gore.
TT: Why?WW: Hes great. Hes a good [vice] presi
dent. Damn!
TT: What did you think of Bill Clinton? [Willis-has a song about and titled Bill Clinton]WW: Hes a good President.
TT: Why is he a good President?
WW: Hes a good President!
TT: Are you still with the Dust Brothers? [The Dust Brothers are a music group and recording agency.]WW: Hell no ... Im with the Causey Way.
TT: Do they treat you well?WW: Yeah, they treat me better. My 
demons shout at me with profanity. My 
demons shot my art program down.
TT: When was the last time you worked 
on your art program?
WW: I havent been drawing for ten 
months.
TT: How do you think you can reclaim it?WW: By getting my strength back. Thats
the way I got to reclaim it.
TT: How you do get your strength? 
Through your music?
WW: I just get it through my music.
TT: What do you enjoy most about being 
a rock star?WW: I just work hard and keep my butt 
busy.
TT: Where in Chicago are you from?
WW: Im from Wicker Park and Albany.
TT: Do you like Chicago?
WW: Yeah, I do. I like Chicago and 
Pittsburgh.
TT: Do you have a favorite sports team in 
Chicago?
WW: The Bears. I like th Bears.
TT: Do you like the Steelers?
WW: I like the Steelers too.
TT: Do you like the Browns?
WW: I like the Cleveland Browns.
TT: Who are you rooting for in the World 
Series? The Mets or Yankees?WW: The Yankees.
TT: Why the Yankees?WW: I like the Mets.
Critic sees if an excellent cast has 
an automatic claim to a good flick
University Lecture series continues 
with two presentations this week
BiyyanKpl/
Phot/Edh
rpJ/eaypf
call 412.392.4900 to order
nelnz Hall box office open 8nH-8pM, 365 days a year 
uuu.plttsburghsynphony.org
pepsi. presents 
student savings
it TKgg
for only
^7
uuh the 
Pittsburgh 
symphony 
orchestra
FILM REVIEW
by Debra Halpern
Staffwriter
The world sucks, at least accord
ing to 12-year-old Trevor played 
by child star Haley Joel Osment (The Sixth Sense) in his new movie Pay It Forward. The movie centers 
around Trevors idea of how he 
can change the world and put it 
into action, an assignment given 
to him by his seventh grade social 
studies teacher Eugene Simonet, 
played by Academy Award winner 
Kevin Spacey (American Beauty, The Usual Suspects). Trevors idea 
goes as follows: first you do one 
major thing for three people that 
they cant do themselves, then 
each person must pay it forward to 
another three people. Compared 
to Trevors other classmates, Mr. 
Simonet views this as unique 
because it depends on the kind
ness of others.
Trevors first act of kindness is 
one of compassion that any 12- 
year-old would want to do, and
that is to take in a homeless man. 
His second act of kindness is to set 
up Mr. Simonet with his mother 
Arlene, played by Academy 
Award-winner Helen Hunt (As Good As It Gets). Trevors third act 
of kindness is to stop his friend 
from getting beat up.
One way to think of Pay It Forward is as a feel-good movie; 
however, it becomes very clear 
from the start that it is not. None 
of Trevors attempts truly work out 
and each character then reveals 
melodramatic faults.
The introduction of Trevors 
mother, Arlene, begins with her 
working at a strip club, and then 
when she comes home, the audi
ence discovers she is an alcoholic. 
Trevor reveals strained relation
ships with both his mother and 
deadbeat dad, Ricki, played by 
Jon Bon Jovi. However, Kevin 
Spaceys character, Simonet, 
proves to be the most melodra
matic with the flaw of being 
scared of change and correlating 
his fears with Trevors home situation, which is seen through his 
relationship with Arlene.
The movie is definitely worth 
seeing. It is a good mix of reality 
and hope as Trevors idea is quick
ly revealed to be not as utopie as it 
sounds. The story is told through 
a series of flashbacks as a reporter 
played by Jay Mohr (Go, Jerry Maguire) tries to uncover the story 
of the Pay It Forward movement. 
The direction the cast takes under 
Mimi Leder (Deep Impact) displays 
the story to its fullest capacity. It 
is a simple concept that has been 
the topic of many films: love,
morals, identity, and imperfec
tion. Pay It Forward is a movie to 
see, but its not quite as remark
able as the movies that the 
Academy Award winners have 
already displayed their talents in. 
While the movie is enjoyable and 
worth the price of admission, it is 
certainly not ground-breaking and 
will not garner many awards.
Final Grade: B
Don't miss incredible percussionist Evelyn 
Glennie.
(From left to right) Helen Hunt, Haley Joel Osment, and Kevin Spacey star in the new film Pay It Forward. Both Hunt 
and Spacey have won Oscars while Osment received a nomination for Best Supporting Actor.
PITTSBURGH, from page B12 
purchasing tickets through 
Ticketmaster for $13 and $15 at 
the door. (The subsidized $6 tick
ets for CMU students have sold 
out.)
8 If the thought of attending 
another lecture outside of class is 
completely ludicrous, then youre 
exactly the kind of person that the 
University Lecture Series is 
trying to please. This semesterlong program showcases thoughtprovoking topics of interest to the 
entire community. Even though 
several of these presentations have 
already taken place, there are two 
especially interesting lectures this 
week. The first one is titled 
Urban Visions: Ahmedabad, 
India and will be given by 
Howard Spodek, Professor of
History, Temple University. He will 
describe the unfolding issue of 
compromising the strategies of 
professional, city planners, the 
more traditional styles of negotia
tion among interest groups, and an 
abundance of illegal transactions 
in Ahmedabad in the search for an 
appropriate model of public, life. 
The other lecture will be Enter 
Here? At Your Own Risk: 
The Moral Dangers of 
Cyberporn. Susan Dwyer, 
Associate Professor of Philosophy, 
University of Maryland-Baltimore 
County, will be the lecturer of this 
self-explanatory topic that you 
know you want to go to. All 
University Lectures run from 4:30 
to 6 pm in the Adamson Wing, 
Baker Hall.
 Plastics' was the one-word 
piece of advice that poor Benjamin
Braddock received in The Graduate, but aluminum is the 
focus of the newest exhibit at the 
Carnegie Museum of Art in 
Oakland. Through February 11, 
you can see a giant collection of 
work featuring aluminum in 
Aluminum by Design: 
Jewelry to Jets. For more infor
mation, visit www.aluminumbydesign.org.
 Speedy Delivery! Speedy 
Delivery! Did you ever want to 
meet Mr. McFeely of Mr. Rogers 
Neighborhood? Personally, the 
man used to scare the bejangles 
out of me, but he serves as a fatherfigure to many. Anyway, hell be at 
the Mister Rogers Sweater 
Drive at the Pittsburgh Childrens1 
Museum this Saturday from noon 
to 2 pm. For more information, call 
322-5059.
COPLAND,, TCHAIKOVSKY, WAGNCR
DECEMBSA k______________________________
Featuring Tchaikovsky's lour-de~force 
Violin Concerto.
AN 0RCH6STRA SHOWCAS0 
FEBRUARY o7_____________________________
Music Director Mariss Jansons takes you 
on a tour of the orchestra with music by 
Bartk, Ravel-and more.
APRIL 6
GVELYN GLGNNIG A0TUANS
So , you want to try classical music, but don't know what to choose?
Try the Student Sampler Series  perfect for your schedule 
and your wallet!
Plus ..
 hear insightful on-stage commentary from the conductor
 Meet & mingle with PSO musicians after each concert!

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 30, 2000Orchestra masterfully handles difficult musical selection
CONCERT REVIEW
CUUlieby ui riusuurgn oyinpnuny ui(.iicaiid
Piano soloist Emmanuel Ax returned to Heinz Hall to deliver another memorable performance with the Pittsburgh 
Symphony Orchestra as part of last weekends presentation of works by Brahms, Copland, and Tchaikovsky.
by Aseem Gupta
Online Editor 
& Srinivas Pullela
Staff writer
Last Friday at Heinz Hall, 
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra 
(PSO) director Mariss Jansons led 
the PSO in an energetic and mem
orable performance of works by 
Brahms, Copland and Tchaikovsky.
The evenings concert opened 
with the performance of Brahms Piano Concerto No. 2, featuring 
piano soloist Emmanuel Ax. The 
four-movement work is among the 
more difficult piano concertos in 
the Romantic style and demands a 
high level of musical and technical 
skill from both the performer and 
orchestra alike.
Ax rose up to the challenge, 
however, delivering a masterful 
interpretation of the work. From 
the tender opening arpeggios of 
the first movement to the tri
umphant chords of the Allegro 
finale, Axs playing combined a 
sensitive touch with flawless tech
nique.
Under Jansons direction, the 
players of the orchestra kept in 
tempo with the piano throughout 
the piece. Although there were a 
few passages where the orchestral 
sound overpowered the piano, in 
general Jansons maintained a bal
ance between the various parts in 
Brahms thickly orchestrated writ
ing.
At the conclusion of Axs perfor
mance, a delighted audience 
offered a standing ovation. Several 
curtain calls later, Ax returned for 
an encore with a cellist from the 
symphony, in which the duo 
played The Swan by Saint-Sans. 
Ax was given yet another standing 
ovation and returned for more cur
tain calls and Ax left the audience
noticeably energized after leaving 
from the final curtain call.
After the interval, the PSO 
returned to the stage of Heinz Hall 
for its first ever performance of 
American Aaron Coplands Symphony for Organ and Orchestra. 
The performance featured Thomas 
Murray on the organ, who is the 
University Organist and a profes
sor of Music at Yale University. Ax 
was originally scheduled to play 
the piece, but backed out after he 
realized that he was not yet pre
pared to play the organ part of the 
piece.
Copland completed his sympho
ny in 1924 and it was first perTchaikovsky, apparently overcome 
with the sights and sounds around 
him, was inspired to write a fanta
sia on folk tunes.
The piece starts out quietly and 
very slowly, and then builds into a 
wonderful mix of sounds that seem 
to truly represent the city as 
Tchaikovsky probably experienced 
it. Jansons, now eternally famous 
for his ability to lead the PSO 
through passages of greatly vary
ing dynamics and tempo, clearly 
had the piece under his control. 
The orchestra emerged from the 
piece shining with the audience on 
its feet.
Last weekends concert was truly
Last weekends concert was truly one 
to remember with an extremely broad 
range of music and one that clearly 
demonstrated why Jansons PSO has 
such a sterling reputation.
formed in 1925. The PSOs perfor
mance was nothing short of extra
ordinary. The rarely played organ 
fit wonderfully into Jansons lead
ership of his orchestra. Murrays 
warm tone and careful attention to 
dynamics helped to make sure the 
piece was a success.
The audience seemed genuinely 
impressed and captivated by the 
organs sound, and the PSO would 
be well advised to feature more of 
these rarely played but still tradi
tional instruments in its perfor
mances.
The PSO closed what already 
was a brilliant success of a concert 
with Tchaikovskys Capriccio Italien. Written in 1880,
Tchaikovsky was inspired, like 
many artists before and after him, 
by the grandeur of Rome.
one to remember with an extreme
ly broad range of music and one 
that clearly demonstrated why 
Jansons PSO has such a sterling 
reputation. The audience seemed 
especially appretiative of Jansons, 
especially after the widely report
ed rumors that Jansons may be 
considering a move from 
Pittsburgh to another orchestra.
The PSO returns to Heinz Hall 
next weekend on Friday, Saturday, 
and Sunday for a performance of 
Ludwig van Beethovens sixth sym
phony, The Pastorale, as well as 
Sergei Prokofievs Violin Concerto No. 1. Jansons will conduct again 
and Vladimir Spivakov will make a 
guest appearance on the violin. 
The concert begins at 8 pm on 
Friday and Saturday, and starts at 
2:30 pm on Sunday.
Student
Government
Elections
Its your school, 
do something 
about it!
Mc/yPM, rnatyPMC 
I/ Thc/. cT Dcjah.M, K/ .ja Us KT hPK/K/mC
ss2p @ andrew. emu. edu
Mass Immigration or Moderation?
Immigration can makeor breaka country. The key issue is numbers. The 
U.S. Census Bureau projects that U.S. population may double within fifty
- years  to more than half a billionif the current 
unprecedented levels of immigration continue.
Long before then, such explosive growth will place serious strain 
5=- on the environment, natural resources, and social harmony.
- For more information, contact the American Immigration
y Control Foundation on the net at wwcfiv.com/-aicfhdn 
Of special interest to college students; Current
immigration policies may keep you from getting good 
high-tech jobs after you graduate. Check out the site: 
http://hcather.cs.ucdavis.edu/itaa.html
American Immigration 
Control Foundation g
Box 525, Monterey, VA 24465 If* 
(540) 468-2022 *
Egg Donor Needed
$25,000 Compensation
We are a loving, infertile 
couple hoping to find a 
compassionate woman to 
help us have a baby.
We're looking for a 
healthy, intelligent college 
student or college grad, 
age 21-33, with blue eyes 
and blonde or light brown 
hair. Your gift of life would 
bring great joy.
Please contact us through 
our representative at 
1.800.776.7680.
CAND
for Student Advantage"" members. 
When you present this coupon and your 
Student Advantage Card.
OFF
for non-members with student ID.
When you present this coupon and your student ID.
Only when you purchase between August 31st and November 18th, for travel on September 14th through December 16th.
Offer valid for select, trains only 
Not valid on unreserved NEC service, Mctrolincr". Acela Express", Auto 
Train, Canadian portion of joint Amtrak/VIA service, 7000 & 8000 
series Thruway Services, multi-ride fare plans and any other discounts 
or promotions. Blackout dates are November 21-28, 2000. Offer nonrehindable after payment is made. Reservations required 14 days in 
advance of travel with ticket purchase within 2 days of reservation. 
Valid for Business Class and Sleeping Car upon payment of full applica
ble accommodation charge. Amtrak is a registered service mark of the 
National Railroad Passenger Corporation.
TRAVEL AGENTS: Access your GDS for complete details: G/PRO/STU 
Sabre: Y/PRO/STU. Attach coupon to auditor's coupon; if electronically 
reporting, attach to agent coupon. All Travel Agents and Amtrak 
Ticketing Agents please return the coupon to. Amtrak Customer 
Segmentation, 10 G Street. N, Washington, DC 20002.
ARC.-? 8 554 270 0000 059 0
Mention code: H059
Regular Student Advantage discount is 15%
F-maii:
Student Advantage
^AMTRAK"
www.amtrak.com

---------------------------------------------------

BioTHE TARTAN  OCTOBER 30, 2000
U$7M
Stud
100 o
Bl MW+
by Scott AdamsTHE PEOPLE UUo 
THEPO LP UHTO o we x wex\WOCWLS.
pIMMo a rjAI'eSGGNop IM a peerrj 
PySFUfOcnorJA u 
S^FAMii-y. /THAT'S GONNA 
TAKE A BITE 
OUT OF MY 
PRODUCTIVITY.
UHAT 
THE.. . ?YOU STILL 
WORK HERE?
'THE PEOPLE WHO
LOVEp ME TOLDMe I U)AS VSTOPIQ. ,
THE PEOPLE Bri UWtL? METOLC?ME X WAS ^__0&L.y.
'THE PEOPLE WHO UVED ME TOLD . ME I U)AS 
^ UAiy.
THE P6oPL L0HO 
LOVED (He TOLD ME X WAS VO^ftATEPU \_.y
YOU UJORK IN 
HUMAN RESOURCES 
THAT'S LIKE 
STEALING FROM 
THE COMPANY, TOO.
YOUR PERSONAL USE 
OF THE INTERNET IS 
LIKE STEALING 
FROM THE COMPANY I
MAYBE WE 
SHOULD 
FORM A GANG.TUE PEOPLE WHO Loveo rue UHKBMe x wex v FHHT'xYA
THE; PEOPLE LOUO 
Lovto Me You'd
M I LJA5 
V^CLOMy.
THE PEOPL WHO LOVE) ME TOLt?ME X WAS v 6 ^BAReASJiiOG.
TUE PEOPLE WHO 
Lovep Me told 
Me. x tOAs 
. DlsoaepiEJT.
OUR RECORDS SHOW 
THAT YOU USED THE 
INTERNET FOR 
PERSONAL REASONS.
Joo RLHHDo eTT
THOSE THH06 
you WSTOLC7WeeTue.
TWE PEOPLE UMO 
Loved Me told MS X tOAS ^Uto LOvASue.
MY MOTTO IS,YOU 
CANT SPELL "WHO 
CARES?" WITHOUT
lH-R-r \r~
IT'S EVIL, BUT \\
 ITS TRUE. \\ .
'So WHEjJ IT COMefto Love, X Peeu Ve&y coiJFusep.
1 thats Wtw x , ASfc. -X
PLEASE, I MERELY 
ORDERED GROCERIES 
ONLINE SO THAT I 
MIGHT HAVE MORE 
TIME FOR WORKING.YOU'RE
FIRED.
GAA! THERE'S A 
WHOLE WORLD OF 
KNOWLEDGE AND 
ENTERTAINMENT 
AT MY FINGER
TIPS. . .TEASING 
ME!
I... MUST... RESIST ) 
...USING...THE 
INTERNET FOR 
PERSONAL REASONS
NO EATING 
IN YOUR 
CUBICLE.
ICE
CREAM! 
I'M SO 
HUNGRY!
AND FRANKLY, 
I USE THE WEB 
FOR PERSONAL 
STUFF TOO.
THE ONLY WRINKLE 
IN THAT POLICY 
IS THAT YOU AND 
I ARE THE ONLY 
EMPLOYEES LEFT.
I FIRED EVERYONE 
WHO USED THE 
INTERNET FOR 
PERSONAL STUFF.
CAN YOU 
TEACH ME 
HOW? -
AND WHAT'S YOUR 
REASON FOR LEAVING 
YOUR PREVIOUS 
JOB?
WAIT UNTIL 
YOU HEAR 
MY MINIMUM 
ACCEPTABLE 
SALARY.
YOU FIRED ME 
YESTERDAY FOR 
NON-BUSINESS 
USE OF THE 
INTERNET.
CRIME
DOESN'T
PAY.
's KitchaI By: Se an ftfJe PuBPesr
Comics Man has a question for you. Are jokes about 
your mama funny, or should we castrate anyone 
who tells one so they cant reproduce, spreading the web 
of fat or ribald mama humor? What about jokes about 
people making jokes about your mama? Can we allow our 
waka? children to be subjected to this sort of thing? Can you tell
..-....-................- - your mama to quit calling me? Shes such a slut.COMICS
mmmjslater @andrew.cmu.edujslater andrew.cmu.edu
Me and some ECEbuddies solved a few new 
physics equations and pul together 
this baby]
Still going for the dorky Jedi look?I Zo vu this school!Halloween is my favorite holiday!Hiding needles in the candy apples.Neither.
Hey, this costume rocks. 
. Besides, its got a little 
I something extra. /Does that thing 
actually work??Buttercup and I 
are gonna kick 
your ass.
Whats your favorite 
part? The costumes, 
or the candy?
Well, what then?
bn e iixmn

---------------------------------------------------

Over The Hedge
The Harder They Are The Farder They Chew
Wooooaaaa! Yeah! Caa-razy Shee-at On The Farm! Wooh!
by: James Kenney (email: jpkenney@andrew.cmu.edu)
Me and my friends are some caa-raazy 
folks. You put us in the cornfields and 
we act like a bunch of stark-raving loons. 
Gosh darn, put a pitchfork in my hand 
and I start gettin' vi-o-lent. I'll poke 
yer eyes out like a couple a egg yolks.
See that scare crow, he don't scare me."
The Phatmaster
http://phat.res.cmu. edu/phatmaster/
A long time ago in a galaxy far, far away, I found myself on a game show for geeks. The 
category was "Geek Movies."
Miraculously, I buzzed in first. 3 gave the obvious answer, but it turns out I was wrong. Of course, one of the others was there to
Incensed at his having won over 2.0035x10*19728 dollars, I became increasingly convinced that all wealth was ill-gotten. Driven by my nave view of economics, I worked furiously towards the creation of a machine that would eliminate excess captial.
lg*(2) = 1 
Ig-(22 = 4) = 2
lg"(22" = 16) = 3: \
lg'(22" = 65536) =4
lg'(22' = 265536) = 5
And soon, it existed. The Log 3 Star, as big as a planet and capable of reducing my foil's
(&<3
earnings to $5.
A ragtag gang of laissez-faire 
capitalists formed a Rebel force to destroy it. They would each benefit from its defeat, so none lived for the sake of another man, nor asked another man to live for his.
DONT BE CLARA... PARENTS SPLIT UP.
SLUE,YOURWONT
I MEAN... THEY ACT PERFECTLY HAPPY.
AS IFmmoANYTHING TO 00 WITH MARRIAGE
CLARA SEEMED SO BUMMED BY HER PARENTS SPLITTING UP, THAT I HAD TO GET DESPERATE...
ONE MORE TWIST.'
60/ GO/ GO/
RJ, YOUMOH BETTER THAN TO START ANYONE ON FULL STRENGTH SAMMY/.'
THE SPECTER OF , Tucr,_ .... v CLARAS PARENTS \ RES 0NLY PIVORCING\S ?NE THING REALLY SUMMING / LEFT DO...
HER OUT.
My pal Anna she's done turned 21 and 
baking us an apple pie jus' ferthe 
occasion, ain't she sweet. "Hoo-e, got my 
head stuckin' this'ere pumkin fer 3 weeks 
now, stinkin' scare crow can't even scare 
a crow. Hows 'bout you scare me up some 
bacon, cuz my stomachs been a achin'."
HEY/...
YOU'RE THE THOUGHT LOVE MALE XWAS THE NURSE...
LOVE /'//THE LOVEdoctor; doctor; Gorr
DONT FRET A50UT YOUR MOMMY AND DADDY'S SEPARATION, CLARA... LEAVE EVERYTHING TO RJ, THE LOVE POCTOR....
I'LL JUST WRITE THEM EACH MOVE NOTE...mTll THINK. ITS FROM EACH OTHER AND WILL BE SACK TOGETHER IN NO TIME/
CLARA...WE'LL SHOW YOUR MOM A DAD HOW MUCH THEY MEAN TO EACH OTHER....HOW THEY CANT LIVE WITHOUTEACA OTHER.
| RIGHT/...
AAAsem Guptat&BrdSHARING YOUR ENTIRE LIFE WITH ONE PERSON CAN 5E...H0W DAY AFTER MYAFTER ENDLESS.% SUFFOCATING PAYCf c NUMBING SAMENESS i IS...IS...
They quickly discovered that the builder, not motivated by profit, had left a gaping security breach. With a cry of "Let reason be with you," they quickly proved to me that I was a dumbass.
Your Comic Here!
by Comics Man 
Tartan Whipping Boy
Thats right, your 
comic could be featured 
right here! Provided, of 
course, that its very, very 
small, because this is a tiny 
space. Come to think of it, 
maybe we shouldnt run it 
here. How about a couple 
nice columns at the top of 
the page?
Send me email 
(jpearce+). Well do lunch.
er23THO
dar*t)~i feel h'kc skkjih b-een a. lonq 
?ti--------r . , Wort-lin'
(toudriMe tri) -,y
Ye-k-- uie.ll whydo+1
you one of r*y 
VikxlMiAS? W v ill 
Y*M fee-l
?-s.7
-M,
rujftSH i + Aouo' 
lotfVi -tf-uvh HD.
Ye*-"1) C
K OpOQollJ}..^
_______________________ _
Ty.4V\v*|bo+j zoJft \ wtafev/er.
b. your girlfrie/viTcarina. dance
Jif.
H++f ://+hu3bo+.kbire. co*> jiooo - off:ci
00-s ; V"~ 
11J
1 n
* aaun
WWsikL-v 
$ @ m W
I\ie^ n 
J DBOg'

---------------------------------------------------

Calendar
30 October 2000THE TARTANPage Bj
Spend your Halloween with Greek Week, Elliott Smith
by Greg Nofi
Entertainment Editor
This week is one of my favorite weeks of the year. Youve got Mischief Night tonight, Halloween tomorrow, and last but not least, Invention of Sex Day on Wednesday. Im not quite sure who invited Invention of Sex Day, but dont wonder, just celebrate it. Celebrate Halloween, too, while youre at it. I just dont recommend partaking in Mischief Night festivities. Instead, spread the fun out over the week with these 12 events that are mysteriously organized under seven bullet points:
 The first cool thing to do this week is 
Greek Week, which is actually a series of 
events nicely wrapped in one nice package. 
So think of this seven-events-for-the-price-ofone trick as an early Halloween treat. First 
off, like the Olympics, youve got the 
Opening Ceremonies on Monday night 
from 7 to 8:30 pm on the CFA Lawn. Then, 
still continuing with the Olympics theme, 
youve got a Greek BBQ and Olympics on 
the Fraternity Quadrangle from 5 to 8 pm on 
Tliesday. Wednesday brings us an Indian 
Benefit Lunch from noon to 4 pm in the 
Wean Hall 5th floor entrance. A 
Bachelor/Bachelorette Auction will be
DO PITTSBURGH!
held in Rangos 2 of the University Center 
from 7 to 10 pm. Then youve got Band 
Wars on Friday at Club Laga in Oakland 
from 6:30 to 10:30 pm. The Delta Gamma 
Anchor Slam Basketball Tournament 
will be held on Saturday from 1:30 to 4:30 
pm in the Skibo Gym. And finally, there will 
be sandwich making for the homeless 
from noon to 3 pm in the West Wing TV 
Lounge on Sunday.
 While Halloween may be a cause for you 
to find the perfect costume by hunting at 
your nearest Goodwill, dont forget to see 
singer-songwriter Elliott Smith (Academy 
Award nominee, Good Will Hunting sound
track) that evening in Rangos Hall of the 
University Center at 8 pm. Smith is perform
ing on campus as part of his second tour this 
year following the release of Figure 8, his fifth 
album and his first off the DreamWorks label. 
His departure from independent labels was 
largely due to his adventure into the main
stream with his Oscar nomination. His per
formance of Miss Misery at the 1998 
Academy Awards show was incredibly simple 
compared to the other -acts by Celine Dion 
and Trisha Yearwood, but it created a lasting, 
warm impression on the shows TV viewers 
nationwide. Will he bring the same stunning 
performance to CMU? You can find out by 
See PITTSBURGH, page B8
 Dreamworks Records
Elliott Smith performs in Rangos Hall this Tuesday.flionday, 1Q/3Q wednesda^il/L thursday, 11/2
Urban Visions: Ahmedabad, India, 
by Dr. Howard Spodek, professor of History, 
Temple University 4:30 to 6 pm in the 
Adamson Wing, Baker Hall 136. Presented as 
part of the University Lecture series.
Greek Week 2000 Opening 
Ceremonies. 7 to 8:30 pm on the CFA lawn. 
In case of rain the event will be held in Skibo 
Gym.
Bitch Night. 7:30 to 8:30 pm at the 
Womens Center. Vent about whatevers on 
your mind in a safe, supportive atmosphere. 
Admission: Free to all. Contact: 268-3595.
tuesday, 10/31
Greek Week 2000 BBQ and Olympics.
5 to 8 pm on the Fraternity Quadrangle. In 
case of rain the event will be held in Skibo 
Gym.
Lecture demonstration by Stelarc, inter
national performance artist and Professor 
Barry Smith, director of the Performing Arts 
Digital Research Unit at Nottingham Trent 
University, UK. 4:30 pm in McConomy 
Auditorium, University Center. Admission: 
Free. Presented by the STUDIO for Creative 
Inquiry and Entertainment Technology 
Center.
Elliot Smith and Grandaddy. 8:30 pm 
in Rangos Hall, University Center. Tickets on 
sale at Ticketmaster, subsidized tickets are 
sold out. Presented by AB Coffeehouse.
No Use For A Name, Pulley, Bigwig, 
and One Man Army. 7 pm at Laga. 
Admission: $10 in advance and $12 at the 
door.
CMU Mens Soccer vs. Washington & 
Jefferson College. 7:30 pm in Gesling 
Stadium.
Internship Strategies. 4:30 to 6 pm in
the Peter/Wright Room,University Center. 
Contact: 268-2064.
Greek Week 2000 Indian Benefit 
Lunch. 12 to 4 pm in Wean Hall at the 5th 
floor entrance.
Soup and Substance. 12:30 to 1:30 pm 
in the McKenna/Peter Room, University 
Center. Contact: 268-8704.
Motivating Others. 6 pm in the Dowd 
Room, University Center. Presented as part of 
the Dimensions series. Contact: 268-2075.
Personal Financial Planning. 7:30 pm 
in the Dowd Room, University Center. 
Presented as part of the Dimensions series. 
Contact: 268-2075.
Five For Fighting, With The Gloves 
Off Tour 2000. Performance at the 
Rosebud. Contact: neil_lawi@sonymusic.com 
or 212-833-5858.
Thomas Jefferson Think Tank 
Monthly General Meeting. 6:45 pm at 
Silvionis Restaurant (Downstairs), 2125 
Babcock Blvd. 5 to 6:30 pm optional dinner. 
Conact: aysl022@aol.com or 630-9292.
The Webs We Weave, by Delanie 
Jenkins (Pitt/Studio Arts). Noon in the Frick 
Fine Arts Building. Sponsored by Department 
of History of Art & Architecture. Contact: 624- 
6485.
Race, Gender and Public Policy,
with Terry Miller (Pitt/Institute for Politics) & 
Diane Chavis (YWCA). Noon to 1 pm in the 
Cathedral of Learning, Room 901. A brown 
bag lunch event. Contact: 624-6485.
Do you have an event you would like to publicize in The Tartan Calendar? Its free!
Send it to
tartan@andrew. emu. edu.
pretty bird, pretty bird
official voice of Hollow Wean
THE HPO L WV
New England is more 
English than England
it's just a jump to the left... KNOCK
THEATR
pumpkin + juice = inmm... KNOCK
DID YOU EAR THAT?
Vi E 'RE THE ."NEW PEOPLE"!
Your revolution is over, Mr. 
Lebowski... Condolences... 
the bums lostl"
theres a Cheerio!
1245
5453
pope
7424
Lemonade, Hot Dog Buns 
Chicken Liver, Tommy Guns 
Gingivitis, Homy Nuns 
Charcoal, Stupid Puns
John, is Heather naked?
tick-tacking
mum my, he s gone rotten 
i fo BKdCusiaJE Biot
W ANA MAKE ME SOME MONEY ON THE CORNER
Tugnutt for President
Fashion before function, punx!
Vox Populi is a forum open to the entire campus community! To 
submit a vox, simply email it to taftenQandrw.m.edti, send it' 
to The Tartan, University Center, Box 17-via campus mail, or drop 
it in the Vox Populi drop box on the slick-looking Tartan server. 
The comments in this box do not reflect the views of The Tartan 
or 'amibody in general. It is basically a bunch of gibberish, and if 
anything sounds remotely real or interesting, then youre reading 
way too much into it.
Enter Here? At Your Own Risk: The 
Moral Dangers of Cyberporn, by Susan 
Dwyer, director of the Masters Program in 
Applied and Professional Ethics at the 
University of Maryland, Baltimore County. 
4:30 to 6 pm in the Adamson Wing, Baker Hall 
136. Presented as part of the University 
Lecture series.
Greek Week 2000 Bachelor and 
Bachelorette Auction. 7 to 10 pm in
Ranges 2, University Center.
Youth Brigade and Swingin Utters. 7
pm at Laga. Admission: $8 in advance and $10 
at the door.
The Future of Graphics Hardware, 
by Turner Whitted, senior researcher, 
Microsoft Research. 4 to 5 pm in Scaife Hall 
Auditorium, Room 125. Presented as part of 
the ECE Distinguished Lecture Series.
Better Living Through Circuitry. 8
pm, 10 pm, and midnight in McConomy 
Auditorium. Presented by AB Films. 
Admission: $1 with CMU ID and $3 without.
Dan Bern. 7:30 pm at the Rosebud. Doors 
open at 6 pm. Presented by NBT. Tickets: $10 
in advance and $12 at the door. Visit www. ticketmaster. com.
Recent Advances in Blood Pressure 
Monitoring, by Thomas G. Pickering, 
M.D., Mt. Sinai Medical Center, New York, NY. 
Noon to 1 pm in Room A115 Crabtree Hall, 
Graduate School of Public Health, University 
of Pittsburgh.
friday, 11/3
Greek Week 2000 Band Wars. 6:30 to 
10:30 pm at Club Laga.
Grand Buffet CD Release Party. 8 pm at
The Beehive, Oakland. All ages show. Doors 
open at 7 pm.
Shaft (2000). 7:30 pm, 10 pm, and 12:30 
am in McConomy Auditorium. Presented by 
AB Films. Admission: $1 with CMU ID and $3 
without.
Undergraduate Art Show. Reception 7 
to 9 pm at the Frame Gallery. Gallery hours are 
Wednesday through Sunday, 12 to 5 pm.
Type O Negative. 7 pm at Metropol. Doors 
open at 6 pm. Presented by Elko. Tickets: $15 
in advance and $17 at the door. Visit www.tick- etweb.com.
Saturday, 11/7
Greek Week 2000 Delta Gamma 
Anchor Slam Basketball Tournament.
1:30 to 4:30 pm in Skibo Gym.
Dances of Kerala, a Mohiniyattam & 
Kathakali Indian Classical Dance and DanceDrama. Perofrmed at Synod Hall, 125 N. Craig 
Street, Oakland. Admission: $20, $15, and $8 
(student) for reserved tickets and $10 at the 
door.
Saturday, 11/7
Carrie Newcomer. 7:30 pm at the 
Rosebud. Doors open at 6 pm. Presented by 
NBT. Tickets: $25 in advance and $28 at the 
door. Visit www.ticketmaster.com.
Camarilla/Anarch Game, Live-Action 
Role-Play of the Camarilla and Anarch sects 
of vampires from White Wolfs Mind's Eye 
Theater. 5 to 11 pm in Porter Hall A18.
Negotiating a Job Offer. 4:30 to 6 pm 
in Rangos Hall 3, University Center. Contact: 
268-2064.
Gone In 60 Seconds. 7:30 pm, 10 pm,
and 12:30 am in McConomy Auditorium. 
Presented by SDC Films. Admission: $1 with 
CMU ID and $3 without.
Sunday, 11/8
Greek Week 2000 Sandwich Making 
for the Homeless. 12 to 3 pm in the West 
Wing TV Lounge.
Citizen Fish. 7 pm at Laga. Admission: $9 
in advance and $11 at the door.
The Computer Who Wore Tennis 
Shoes. 7:30 and 10 pm in McConomy 
Auditorium. Presented by AB Films. 
Admission: $1 with CMU ID and $3 without.ongoing
Aluminum by Design: Jewelry to 
Jets.  Through February 11 at the Carnegie 
Museum of Art, Oakland. Contact: 622-3212.
Joseph and the Amazing 
Technicolor Overcoat. November 3 
through November 18 at the Orchard Hill 
Chapel, Wexford. Presented by the Saltworks 
Theatre Company. Contact: 394-3353.
Oktoberfest of Flowers. Through 
November 5 at the Phipps Conservatory and 
Botanical Gardens, Oakland. Contact: 622- 
6958.
Meat Dreams. Through December 3 at 
the Melwood Photography Gallery, Oakland. 
Color photographs by Bob Kubiak. Contact: 
681-5449.
(eVisual Sound. Through July 31 at the 
Mattress Factory, North Side. Features instal
lations exploring the connection between the 
eye and ear by Robin Minard, Patrice Carr, 
and Takehisa Kosugi. Contact: 231-3169.
Scenes of Western Pennsylvania: The 
Photography of Donald M. Robinson.
Through January 25. Features 67 photos of 
the Western Pennsylvania landscape. Contact: 
622-3131.
Gifts of Winter. Through October 28 at 
the Hunt Institute for Botanical 
Documentation, Hunt Library. Contact: 268- 
2440.
Fright Fest. Thursday through Sunday 
from 7 pm to midnight at IC Light 
Ampitheatre, Station Square. Haunted attrac
tions, side shows, amusement rides, games 
and more. Contact: 562-9905.
The Pittsburgh New Works Festival.
Thursday (8 pm), Friday (8 pm), Saturday (6 
and 9 pm), and Sunday (4 ahd 7 pm) at the 
Hamburg Studio Theatre, South Side. Tickets: 
$7. This weeks plays: Transitional Girl, The Exchange, and A Reasonable First Step. For 
more information, call 881-6888.
Monuments, Millionaires', and
Memories: A Walking Tour of The 
Homewood Cemetery. Until November 5. 
Tours on Wednesdays from 10 to 11:30 am; 
Sundays from 2 to 3:30 pm; and the first and 
third Saturdays of each month from 10 to 
11:30 am. Meet at the Homewood Cemetery 
gates at Dallas Avenue. Admission: $6 per per
son. Reservations: can be made by calling 
371-0600.
Three Rivers Film Festival. November 5 
through November 18 at the Harris theatre, 
the Melwood Screening Room, and Regent 
Square Theatre. Tickets: $6 each and avail
able at the box office one half hour before 
each showtime. For more information: www. pghfilmmakers. org/filmfest/.
Study Abroad Show. October 31 through 
November 11 in the UC Gallery. Admission is 
free. Contact: 268-8704.
Sweepstakes Practices. From 5 to 9 am 
Saturdays and Sundays through November 12 
(weather permitting). Tech St., Frew St., and 
Schenley Drive will be closed to traffic.
