Drawn and quartered
Andrew Johnson takes aim at Senate 
spending on Quarter Mile of Quarters. 
Forum, AioPipe dreams
CMUs bagpipe community wears its 
plaid with pride.
Pillbox, 6Protesting primates
CMU student found monkeys feel 
cheated by unfair practices. 
SciTeck, A5
Founded in igo6 
Independent since 2002THE TARTAN
Volume 98, Issue 5www.thetartan.org
Robotics director likely to 
head new Qatar campus
by Andrew Johnson
Editor-in-Chief
Chuck Thorpe, director of the 
Robotics Institute, grew up halfway 
around the globe, in the dense 
wilderness of the Congo. While he 
will not be moving home any time 
soon, his new home may be very 
close. Thorpe will likely serve as 
dean of Carnegie Mellons proposed 
campus in Doha, Qatar. After having 
spent 24 years as a pioneer in robot
ics, it seems wanderlust has struck 
the good doctor.
Its in my blood and my upbring
ing, said Thorpe, but he also said 
there were a number of other rea
sons he is excited about going. He 
sees the venture as good thing 
because he wants to see the CMU 
brand spread to the world, and also 
because this joint venture with the 
Qatar foundation is a chance to help 
a country that is progressing rapid
ly-If no monkey wrenches enter the 
works in either his arrangement 
with Carnegie Mellon or the 
Universitys deal with the 
Foundation, Thorpe and his family 
will make the move to the Middle 
East this summer. It is a move they 
have considered carefully, due to 
fears of terrorism, but Thorpe said 
everything he has seen and been 
told has made Doha seem safe. In his 
trip last week to Qatar with other 
administrators, Thorpe was even 
told that a story made the rounds in
headlines about a car being stolen, 
something too common in America 
to make media waves.
Thorpe will take his research 
interests with him, but obviously in 
a much-lessened capacity that is yet 
to be determined. There are a lot of 
other things to attend to.
It will be a new school, so it 
entails everything, said Thorpe.
During his trip last week with 
Michael Murphy, dean of Student 
Affairs, Bill Elliott, vice president of 
Enrollment, and Robert Kail, associ
ate dean of CIT, Thorpe and compa
ny visited various high school and 
college programs in Qatar to gauge 
things like the level of English and 
math skills that the applicant pool 
would have in Qatar. Elliott was 
there largely to gauge the academic 
side of students, and Murphy was 
along to look at the non-academic 
side. Elliott said they were all pleasandy surprised and that students 
seemed very enthusiastic.
Indira Nair, vice provost for edu
cation, has been heavily involved in 
the planning process. Complex 
questions still exist, even as the deal 
seems likely to come to fruition. The 
crux is transporting the CMU brand, 
not redesigning it.
Theres a question as to whether 
we can share gen. ed. [require
ments], said Nair, as CMU will 
share Education City with other res
ident programs from such schools as 
Cornell, West Virginia University,
See QATAR, page A4
Quarter Mile of Quarters 
celebrated on CFA lawn
by Cecilia Westbrook
Junior Staffwriter
A full quarter-mile of quarters is 
worth $3965. Last Friday, a quartermile of quarters that was collected 
for charity was laid out around the 
CFA lawn for the third annual 
Quarter Mile of Quarters, a fund
raising event coordinated by the 
philanthropy chairs from Kappa 
Kappa Gamma (KKG) sorority and 
Kappa Delta Rho (KDR) fraternity. 
The proceeds raised by the event 
will be donated to the Childrens 
Free Care Fund of Childrens 
Hospitals, which provides care to 
children whose families cannot pay 
for it themselves.
Since the hospital opened, weve 
pledged that no child should be 
denied medical care, no matter their 
monetary situation, said Jill Daly, 
an events specialist for the hospital.
The fund receives donations from 
numerous individual donors and 
businesses in addition to student 
efforts like the Quarter Mile of 
Quarters, and typically gives out 
about $20 million each year in free 
care to Pittsburgh children, but the 
total donations for the fund per year 
generally come to no more than $2 
million, Daly said.
KDR and KKG have raised about 
$4000 for the fund each year for 
three years now.
We basically wanted to draw the 
community together to benefit chil
dren, said Laurie Chan, a junior 
business administration major and 
the philanthropy chair for Kappa 
Kappa Gamma.
[The event] was a great repre
sentation of the Greek communitys 
dedication to serving the communi
ty at large outside of campus, said 
Gina Casalegno, coordinator of stu
dent activities for the Student 
Activities office and advisor to the 
organizers of the event.
This years Quarter Mile of 
Quarters came as part of an effort 
on the part of the Greek system to 
increase philanthropy in the greater 
community around CMU.
The Greek system as a whole is 
getting more involved in philan
thropies, teaming up with other 
groups to do larger philanthropies 
throughout the year, said 
Stephanie Kuga, a second-year his
tory and social sciences major. 
However, this was more than strictly 
a fundraising event.
We want people to go out and 
have fun  to unite the Greek com
munity, the residence halls, faculty 
and staff, and alumni, said Chan. 
We have a whole spectrum of stu
dent organizations coming together, 
and we want them to know that 
their money is going to a good
See QUARTERS, page A4
Namtarn Chaipan/Junior Staff
Malaysian Food Fun
Arthur Goh and James Sia fry pisang goreng, also known as banana fritters at last Fridays Malaysian Food Festival. In 
addition to the variety of foods, there was a martial arts demonstration set to music.
CMU ready for RIAA lawsuits
by James Tedow
Junior Staffwriter
This month the Recording 
Industry Association of America, 
(RIAA) began suing 261 file-sharers 
for copyright infringement. CMU 
students have yet to be subpoenaed, 
but many at Carnegie Mellon have 
become increasingly interested in a 
legal conflict that suddenly seems 
alarmingly personal.
According to Mary Jo Dively, gen
eral counsel for CMU, there is a pre
determined procedure when a stu
dent receives a subpoena. The sub
poena will be forwarded to Dively 
and Computing Services will send a 
letter to the RIAA informing them 
that the school has received the sub
poena and it is under review.
Then when I receive it Ill review 
it to determine whether its valid. 
And just for reference, its not at all 
certain that the subpoena will be 
valid, said Dively. The student is 
then notified that the school has 
received a subpoena and they are 
allowed the opportunity to hire their 
own lawyer.
The whole idea is that weve 
developed a procedure that would 
allow CMU to comply with its legal 
obligations but not unfairly deprive 
the student of ... his own legal 
rights, said Dively.
September 16 saw the release of a 
survey by the Business Software 
Alliance, an organization dedicated 
to promoting a safe and legal digital 
world, revealing opinions of college 
students and faculty on music-shar
ing issues. The survey stated that 
more than three-quarters of faculty 
and administrators say it is absolute
ly not okay to download or swap 
files, yet less than one-quarter of stu
dents say it is wrong. Many of the
Alex Meseguer/News Editor
Fan Yang, junior ECE major, shows off his portable 250 GB hard-drive. It was 
made a little less useful when he was booted from the Ethernet network for ille
gal file sharing by Computing Services which is located in Cyert Hall.
other statistics from this survey are 
also indicative of the students atti
tudes. 69 percent [of college stu
dents] have downloaded music, 
with only 8 percent of them paying 
for it all or even most of the time.
One major problem the RIAA faces 
is the severe unpopularity of their 
policies among college students, 
who are also the largest perpetrators 
of software piracy.
Despite their behavior, a majority 
of students surveyed in the study, 93 
percent, endorse the intellectual 
property values of rewarding soft
ware developers and protecting 
intellectual property rights in order 
to encourage research and develop
ment.
Many students feel that the RIAA 
is charging exorbitant prices for 
music, and believe that alternate 
methods of acquiring music are 
therefore justified.
File sharing hurts the copyright 
holders (the labels) but does noth
ing but generate enthusiasm and 
popularity for artists, who in most
See SHARING, pageA4
Campus laundry plan under revision
J.T. Trollman/Assistant Photo Editor
Bruce Burnett, first-year CIT student, takes advantage of the quarter-operated 
machines in Scobell House.
by Andrew Johnson
Editor-in-Chief
The last time Carnegie Mellon 
needed a crate of those old plastic 
tokens to disperse among students 
for laundry purposes, they had to 
find them sitting in a warehouse 
because they had stopped being 
manufactured. That was January, 
but now the old machines have been 
replaced with larger, more waterefficient machines that use quarters.
Business Services ran laundry 
until this summer, when its over
sight passed over to Housing 
Services. According to Tim Michael, 
director of Housing Services, out
sourcing laundry was seen as the 
most cost-effective way to handle it.
CMU entered a seven-year con
tract with Caldwell and Gregory, 
who over the summer funded rough
ly $50,000 in renovations for laun
dry facilities all over campus. As per
the contract won in competitive bid
ding, all of the quarters used this 
semester will go to Housing.
It is likely that this may be the last 
year students are feeding anything 
into the machines, however. 
Currently being explored by the 
Student Dormitory Council (SDC), 
and endorsed by Michael as well as 
C&G as the most cost-effective 
means of handling payment, is a 
Housing proposal of a flat fee of $75 
per year, which would make the 
machines free. Forty of those dollars 
would go back to the company, and 
$35 would go to Housing to cover 
other costs such as utilities. One of 
the reasons laundry passed to 
Housing in the first place was 
because the utility costs of the laun
dry machines were being absorbed 
by Housing without payment.
Were trying to separate out the 
full cost of laundry, said Michael.
The hope was we would go to 
amenity bundling, he said, refer
ring to the flat fee system. Michael 
said amenity bundling is a trend in 
college laundry services, and that 
the guaranteed stream of income to 
the machine-leasing company 
allows them to accept less total rev
enue. Duquesne University, as well 
as schools like West Virginia, 
Georgetown, and Johns Hopkins 
University use the system.
If students do not like the flat fee 
structure, they can opt to stay with 
quarters, or even elect to pay for 
machines with Campus Xpress, but 
students on campus seem open to 
the new system.
It sounds like a good idea, I 
guess. I dont carry much cash 
around with me so its kind of a has
sle to get quarters, said Clinton Loo, 
a first-year CIT student. He also said 
that he does not do laundry very 
often  about once every two 
weeks.
See LAUNDRY, page A4
29 September 2003
UC basement 
to gain final 
furnishings
by Kevin Chang
Staffwriter
Soon students will enjoy the bene
fits of a more decorative and cell 
phone-friendly University Center 
basement. They will be able to chat 
with their buddies at the dorm or 
around the world while waiting in 
line for the Dance Dance Revolution 
machine. A cell phone booster was 
commissioned, in part, because of a 
request from the Career Center, 
which needs the communication 
capability for the mobile phones, 
PDAs, and wireless laptops of 
recruiters who flow in and out of the 
area on a regular basis. New decora
tive installations will be added con
tinually through the coming months, 
said Dan Gilman, student body presi
dent.
By the end of the semester you 
should see a much more complete 
lower level, he said.
Planned improvements include 
new lighting sconces, new game 
room content, and more visual dis
plays.
Therell be more artwork, display 
cases, and bulletin boards, said 
Gilman. Also being planned are news
paper distribution racks for campus 
publications to be located across from 
the mailboxes and in Scotland Yard.
We hope to get student art in 
Scotland Yard, said University 
Center director Marcia Gerwig. 
Gerwig said that the organizers were 
looking for art and photographs. The 
bulletin boards will have separate 
spaces marked for each day of the 
week, like the boards currently up in 
Kirr Commons.
The key is that its an ongoing 
experiment, he said. Student input 
is [essential] at this point.
John Hannon, director of Student 
Activities, submitted the request for 
better cellular phone service in the 
basement through the Facilities 
Management Services project manag
er.
Peter Bronder, manager of network 
engineering for Computing Services, 
is planning the installation of the 
equipment.
[The basement] is a black hole as 
far as cell phone service goes, he 
said. Verizon customers used to 
receive adequate signal, but recent 
campus changes have weakened it. 
The eastern side of campus lost cell 
service when the new Doherty Hall 
extension was built and the Wean 
Hall cell site was blocked.
According to Bronder, current 
plans call for antennae to be located 
in the hallway in front of the student 
post office boxes and in the vicinity of 
Scotland Yard. Cellular phone signals 
will then be routed to the third floor 
of the University Center to bi-direc
tional amplifiers, which will re
broadcast the signal to cell phone 
companies respective cell sites.
Cell phone users whose devices 
operate around the 800 MHz and 1.8 
GHz frequency range will enjoy the 
best improvement in reception. This 
includes users of Verizon, AT&T 
Wireless, Sprint, and T-Mobile. 
Nextel phones will not be helped 
because the equipment for them is 
not included in the current plan. 
Bronder expressed concern that the 
Sprint signal from the site on top of 
Warner Hall may overwhelm the TMobile signal from its Oakland cell 
site. The project is currently delayed 
due to equipment being on back
order. Bronder gave no date for com
pletion of the project.
The University Center administra
tion, Student Activities, and the 
Career Center are jointly in charge of 
planning and funding the other addi
tions. One of the display cases will be 
exclusively for the use of the Career 
Center and two others will be avail
able for student organization use.
The additions are part of the ongo
ing project that included the addition 
of the post office, Andys, and the 
Scotland Yard recreational area.
Things are going much more 
smoothly than we had even anticipat
ed, said Gilman.
Gilman said that the interior of 
Scotland Yard could still change. 
Student activities is checking the 
financial aspect of the arcade games 
and could decide to move or get rid of 
unprofitable machines.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  SEPTEMBER 29, 2003
Rige^
Forum,A imPlbA x6obScuoATeSkum,
Weather
TiJTf Tijrj
/ '/ ' I'll
TUESDAY
Hi 59 
Lo 45
WEDNESDAY
Hi 57 
Lo 35
THURSDAY
Hi 54 
Lo 39
Hi 55 
Lo 47
Hi 61 
Lo 48
CXM
Crime & Incident
Theft, 9/19/03, 2:50 pm  A
Skibo Coffeehouse employee called 
Campus Police to report that money 
had been stolen from her purse. She 
left her purse by the time clock and 
found $38 removed from it. Skibo 
employees said that there had been 
a rash of thefts recently, and the 
manager said money was missing 
from the register on one occasion. 
The victim was advised not to leave 
her belongings unattended.
Medical, 9/21/03, 1:58 am  
Campus Police encountered a firstyear from Duquesne University at 
the wooden table in front of Pi 
Kappa Alpha. When asked where he 
had been drinking, he pointed to 
Theta Xi and said he and his friends 
(who were all under 21) were not 
required to show any proof of age 
while at the Theta Xi party. The stu
dent, Brian Clark, was transported 
back to the Duquesne University 
police station after being issued a 
citation for Underage Consumption 
of Liquor or Malt or Brewed
Beverages.
Criminal Mischief, 9/21/03, 
1:09 pm  Delta Tau Delta report
ed to police that someone had shat
tered a patio window between 3 am 
and 10 am. The officer, upon 
responding, found a rock below the 
window that had apparaently been 
thrown at the window. The broth
ers of the house had no idea who 
might have committed the crime.
Theft, 9/21/03, 1:09 pm  A
student reported that she had left 
her wallet in her bookbag behind 
her desk in Porter Hall and some
one had taken between $60 and 
$80 from it.
Disorderly Conduct,
9/21/2003, 7:33 pm  Campus 
Police were called to investigate a 
motorcycle and car drag racing in 
the Morewood parking lot. The stu
dents in question willingly gave up 
their identification information, 
although they did deny drag rac
ing. They were issued CMU internal 
citations since the officer had no 
proof.that they violated traffic 
laws.
Request for Assistance from 
Campus Community, 9/22/2003, 
4:43 pm  Campus Police was 
called out on a complaint by the
Israeli Student Organization about 
material painted on the Fence. A 
group of Palestinian students had 
written messages like Bring 
Sharon to justice for the Sabra and 
Shatili massacres and end the 
occupation. The Israeli Student 
Organization stated that it is not 
proper to have writings in public 
that enflames one group against 
another. The Student Affairs 
Representative pointed out that 
the Palestinian students had the 
freedom of speech to make political 
statements and that no action 
would be taken.
Criminal Mischief, 9/22/03, 
7:05 pm  Campus Police was 
brought out to Fringes buggy room 
to investigate an unlawful entry. 
There were no signs of force, but 
the locked door had been opened. 
However, nothing was stolen  the 
intruder (s) had simply urinated all 
over everything, including the bug
gies, drivers gear, couch, and com
puter. The keyboard of the comput
er was, of course, ruined. Fringe 
stated that this had been happen
ing for three weeks, and it took 
them that long to figure out what 
was going on. When asked about 
probable perpetrators, Fringe stat
ed that they had been having prob
lems with Student Dormitory 
Council and Beta Theta Pi, and had
even changed the door lock as a 
precaution. Fringe is not aware of 
any missing keys, but has been try
ing to keep the incidents quiet. A 
new lock was placed on the 
entrance door again.
Padded for her protection
Property Damage, 9/24/03, 
8:03 pm  A man called Campus 
Police to complain that he had 
tripped over an object on the side
walk near Hunt Library. He was 
able to drive home, though he suf
fered numerous bruises and abra
sions. His concern in calling was 
that someone else might trip. The 
officer checked the area for debris, 
and finding none, concluded that 
the man had tripped on the bol
lards in the sidewalk.
Request for Assistance from 
Campus Community, 9/25/03, 
7:13 am  A Skibo Coffeehouse
manager contacted Campus Police 
because they would be terminating 
an employee that day. The employ
ee was informed that he had been 
terminated the day before because 
he had not shown up for three 
shifts at work and had not called 
off. He was told that three letters, 
one certified, had been sent to his 
home. He was escorted off campus 
and told not to return. He left with
out incident.
Medical, 9/25/03, 3:26 pm  
An officer was dispatched to 
Hammerschlag Hall in response to 
a student requesting an ambulance. 
The student said she had been 
working on a project that used a 
fast drying glue. She became dizzy 
and experienced tightness in her 
chest. The student was taken to 
UPMC Shadyside.
Incident tallies 9/19 to 9/26
Broken Lock: 3
Lost ID: 1
Water/Steam Leak: 2
Criminal Mischief: 3
Page 2 Compiled by 
Andrew Johnson, 
Evan Sundwick
Law schools sue 
Dept, of Defense
(U-WIRE) WASHINGTON  A 
coalition of law schools, professors 
and students filed a lawsuit against 
the Department of Defense last 
Friday alleging that the Solomon 
Amendment, which allows the U.S. 
military to recruit on college cam
puses, is unconstitutional. The 
Forum for Academic and 
Institutional Rights filed the lawsuit 
in federal district court in New 
Jersey.
FAIR has declined to name the 
members of the lawsuit, but the 
groups board includes professors 
from Georgetown, Yale, Stanford 
and New York Universities and the 
University of Southern California. 
FAIR is not releasing the names of 
member schools because the group 
believes that anonymity is needed 
to protect participating law schools 
from retribution, the Boston Globe 
reported last Saturday.
Georgetown University Law 
Center Dean Judith Areen would 
not comment on whether or not
Georgetown was involved in the 
suit. Law professor Michael 
Seidman, however, speculated that 
Georgetown University was not a 
plaintiff.
To the best of my knowledge, 
Georgetown is not involved with the 
suit, he said.
Co-plaintiffs on the suit include 
the Society of American Law 
Teachers and student groups at 
Boston College Law School and 
Rutgers University School of Law.
I would really hope that this 
institution, which has tried to make 
up for a wrong in the past, would 
live up to its obligation. If the cost is 
looking anti-military, it doesnt mat
ter, because they wouldnt let the 
military on campus for 10 years any
way, Michael Boucai said.
Law schools across the country 
have forbidden the outfits within 
the Department of Defense to 
recruit with school resources 
because the militarys dont ask, 
dont tell policy is in violation of the 
Association of American Law 
Schools bylaw 6-4. The bylaw 
added sexual orientation to the list 
of protected categories under its 
non-discrimination provisions, 
according to the SALT Web site. 
Protests challenging on-campus mil
itary recruitment occurred at 
Harvard, Boston College, Boston
University, Columbia and 
Georgetown last fall.
We all expect Georgetown to 
[join FAIR], but I dont expect them 
to let us know if they have. But we do 
plan to educate about the suit, and 
pressure the university if it hasnt 
already joined, Maryana Zubok 
said.
Student plummets 
from library tower
(U-WIRE) BINGHAMTON, N.Y.  
A black male student in his early 20s 
fell from the 15th floor South Side of 
the Bartle Library Tower, landing on 
the roof of Library North extension 
at about 1 pm Thursday, according 
to a press release and campus-wide 
voicemail issued by the Binghamton 
University Office of
Communications and Marketing.
The student, who officials con
firmed survived the fall, was trans
ported to Wilson Regional Medical 
Center in Johnson City, N.Y. Officials 
at the hospital are unable to release 
information concerning his condi
tion until the family members are 
notified.
Officials identified the male after 
finding his drivers license. Police 
are still investigating the circumstances surrounding the students 
fall. Sociology professor Frederic 
Deyo, whose, office on the fourth 
floor of the Library Tower overlooks 
the top of Library North, was taken 
aback when he noticed the young 
male lying on the roof only a few 
feet from his window around 12:50 
pm Deyo immediately sought out 
the departments secretary, who 
then called 911. Deyo said he saw a 
lot of blood and that the males leg 
was wounded and moving.
Officer Sammy Davis of the 
University police said the call was 
received at 1:05 pm.
I didnt hear or see anything 
other than the body, Deyo said. 
You dont expect to see a body lay
ing there, bleeding.
Alcohol industry 
to limit youth ads
(U-WIRE) WASHINGTON  
Concern over alcohol advertise
ments once again reached the floor 
of Congress with the release of two 
reports on Sept. 9. Although differ
ing in opinion, both reports con
firmed a central issue  the alcohol 
industry is beginning to reform 
youth exposure to its advertising.
Of the two reports, the Federal
Trade Commissions was most in 
favor of the alcohol industrys 
changing practices. Jim OHara, 
executive director at the Center on 
Alcohol Marketing and Youth at 
Georgetown University, said that the 
report was a review of what the 
industry had done since 1999, and 
that the industry has made several 
improvements.
In order to limit youth exposure, 
the alcohol industry has agreed on a 
70 percent threshold of adult access 
in order to run such an advertise
ment, meaning that they will only 
choose to run such ads in periodicals 
or during air time in which less than 
30 percent of its readers, viewers or 
listeners are under 21.
Prior to the change, the threshold 
was set at 50 percent, statistically 
leaving one in two viewers of the ad 
underage.
While saying he is glad about the 
changes, OHara also added that he 
wished it had come sooner. Its wel
come news but thats just now taken 
place ... for the last four years, 
underage youth has been exposed to 
these ads.
The other report presented to 
Congress comes from the National 
Academy of Sciences. According to 
its findings, the 70 percent thresh
old is too low; it calls for 85 percent 
of the audience to be adults.
Census data shows 
city getting youth
PITTSBURGH (AP)  New census 
data suggests Pittsburghs population 
problem may not be in retaining young 
professionals. Rather, its getting more 
couples like Diego Sharon and 
Christine Eaton to move into the city.
Sharon and Eaton traded San 
Franciscos high cost of living for a 
more affordable Pittsburgh in July and 
the couple is now planning to buy a 
house in the Mexican War Streets 
neighborhood, which is undergoing 
revitalization.
The regions 25- to 34-year-olds 
moved out at a relatively low rate dur
ing the 1990s, compared to other met
ropolitan areas, according to an analy
sis of census statistics by the Pittsburgh 
Tribune-Review.
Southwestern Pennsylvania lost an 
estimated 19 percent of its young popu
lation between 1995 and 2000, but 
Columbus, Seattle and Raleigh all lost 
bigger shares. Atlanta lost 25 percent. 
And Washington, D.C., lost half.
But all those cities were able to 
attract more young people into their 
coffeehouses and health clubs. During 
the 1990s, Pittsburgh saw a relatively 
paltry 14 percent boost in the young 
adult population, which wasnt enough 
to keep up with the outflow rate.
The newspaper reported that 
between 1995 and 2000, for example, 
more than 10,000 health care workers 
left greater Pittsburgh, compared with 
6,000 health care workers who moved 
here.
Local leaders should be looking to 
attract more young people instead of 
retaining the ones that are here, said 
CMU professor Richard Florida, an 
authority on how cities can attract 
young professionals.
What Pittsburgh really needs to do 
is get its eyes away from retaining its 
i young people, or from trying to get 
back the ones who have already left, 
and it has to become the kind of place 
people around the country want to 
come to, Florida said.
Sharon, 32, a high school teacher, 
decided he was tired of working nights 
and weekends to support his family in 
suburban San Francisco. His wife want
ed to stay home to raise their children.
The couple started looking at 
Albuquerque, N.M., Portland and 
Madison, Wis., but settled on 
Pittsburgh when they came for a family 
reunion.
Were full-on spokespeople for 
Pittsburgh now, Sharon said.
Christopher Briem, a regional econo
mist at the University of Pittsburgh 
Center for Social and Urban Research, 
says the unemployment rate and dot
com bust may have helped Pittsburgh. 
Since 2000, the number of incoming 
workers has caught up with the num
ber of workers moving out.
I think were at a crossroads of what 
Pittsburgh was and what it will be, but 
clearly things are not as negative as 
people think, Briem said.
Man convicted of 
abusing runaway
PITTSBURGH (AP) - A man who 
called himself a master for teen slave 
girls on a website and took a teenage 
runaway from the Pittsburgh area to his 
Virginia home for bondage sex last year 
was sentenced to 19 years, seven 
months in federal prison on Friday.
A defense attorney failed to sway 
U.S. District Judge William Standish by 
arguing that Scott William Tyree 
deserved a lesser sentence because, 
according to Tyree, the girl  then 13 
 first raised the bondage fantasies 
when they chatted on the Internet in 
December 2001.
The girl wrote in the chat room it is 
my fantasy to have these things happen 
to me, defense attorney Damien 
Schorr argued. What wrong was she 
unable to detect and prevent?
Tyree, 41, of Herndon, Va., pleaded 
guilty in March to two counts, that he 
took the girl across state lines for illegal 
sex and that he sexually exploited a 
minor. Under federal sentencing guide
lines, Standish could have sentenced 
him to more than 24 years in prison, 
but Schorr argued that the minimum 
sentence Tyree received was still too 
severe.
Assistant U.S. Attorney Stephen 
Kaufman dismissed Schorrs arguments 
that the girl consented to be Tyrees 
slave, and said Tyree took advantage of 
the girl no matter what she said on the 
Internet.
He was (on the Internet) looking for 
juveniles who might be vulnerable, 
Kaufman said. This girl was 13 years 
old  she cant consent to anything.
Tyree apologized to the girl and 
asked Standish to make sure he can 
receive sex-related mental health coun
seling in prison, to which the judge 
agreed.
It is my deepest desire to understand 
what I did and why I did it, Tyree said.
Tyree will spend three years on pro
bation after prison, during which time 
his computer use will be monitored and 
he will be unable to possess pornogra
phy of any kind. Tyree is divorced and 
has a daughter who was 12 when he 
assaulted the Pittsburgh-are a girl.
NationWire
People dispute giving 
honors to confederates
World Wire
Italy hit by largest 
blackout since WWII
ROME (AP)  A storm-tossed tree branch 
that hit Swiss power lines helped trigger a 
massive blackout in almost all of Italy on 
Sunday, trapping thousands on trains and 
forcing the pope to use a backup generator to 
proclaim his new cardinals. The outage, 
blamed for three deaths, underlined the dan
gers of Italys reliance on imported power.
It was Italys worst power outage since 
World War II. Most of the countrys 58 million 
people were affected  more than in North 
Americas biggest blackout, which left 50 mil
lion people without power in Canada and the 
United States on August 14.
As in the North American blackout, there 
was initially confusion about the cause and 
finger-pointing among neighboring countries. 
With scant domestic supply and swelling pub
lic demand, Italy imports most of its electrici
ty-The blackout began at 3:25 a.m., hitting all 
of Italy except the island of Sardinia. The 
lights came back on in northern Italy by early 
morning and in most of Rome shortly after 
noon. Power was restored to the rest of Italy 
late Sunday, according to television news 
reports.
The blackout was blamed for the deaths of 
three elderly women, the ANSA news agency 
said.
Japan pledges one 
billion in aid to Africa
TOKYO (AP)  Japanese Prime Minister 
Junichiro Koizumi, opening a major donor 
conference Monday, pledged $1 billion in new 
aid for education and health care in Africa.
The money, to be dispersed over five years, 
will help fund AIDS treatment, vaccinations 
and building schools and facilities for drinking 
water.
Koizumis announcement came at the start 
of a three-day conference in Tokyo on fighing 
poverty and promoting sustainable develop
ment in Africa.
Heads of state from 23 African countries 
and representatives of leading donor nations 
and aid groups will discuss infectious dis
eases, conflict prevention and investment on 
the continent during the meeting.
The conference is the third such meeting 
hosted by Japan, Africas biggest international 
donor, since 1993.
Japan hopes to act as a bridge between 
Asia and Africa, Koizumi said in an opening 
speech.
The pledge was the centerpiece of a three
tiered program to promote development, 
poverty reduction and peace. That program 
included earlier initiatives to earmark $300 
million over the next five years for loans for 
Japanese investment in Africa, and to forgive 
up to $3 billion in yen loans to the most heav
ily indebted nations on the continent.
Koizumi said Japan has provided Africa 
assistance totaling $12 billion since the first 
Tokyo International Conference on African 
Development conference a decade ago.
Highlighting the need for help, Malloch 
Brown, the head of the UN Development 
Program, told delegates one in six African 
children dies before the age of five and that 
primary school enrollment is below 60 per
cent. And while experts say Japanese aid is 
critical to Africa, it also furthers Tokyos strat
egy of assuming a more prominent role in 
global diplomacy  including an aim to 
become a permanent member of the UN 
Security Council.
Even if Japans economy is in a slump, the 
country is still a power, said Makoto Sato, a 
professor of international relations at 
Ritsumeikan University and an expert on 
Africa. To a certain degree, the aid is trying to 
promote this.
Koizumi spent Sunday greeting Ghanas 
President John Kufuor and he was due to meet 
South Africas Thabo Mbeki on Monday.
More than half of Africas population lives ! 
on less than $1 a day and more than 24 million 
Africans are infected with HIV/AIDS but can
not afford expensive drugs designed to slow 
its effects.
COLUMBIA, S.C. (AP)  A proposal to have 
the bodies of eight Confederate sailors lie in 
state in the Capitol has drawn criticism from 
some who contend giving them the honor 
would be unfair and disrespectful. The sailors 
remains were recovered when the submarine 
H.L. Hunley was brought up in 2000 from the 
bottom of the Atlantic Ocean, where it sank 
shortly after downing the Union blockade ship 
Housatonic in 1864. The Hunley was the first 
submarine to sink an enemy ship during a war.
A Hunley Commission member said no for
mal request has been made, but a Web site list
ing details of funeral plans had initially 
included two days in the Capitol.
Such an honor has been reserved for sitting 
or long-serving congressmen in recent years.
Some question whether Confederate sol
diers should be honored in such a way, includ
ing state Sen. Darrell Jackson, who said he 
would oppose any plan to give high public 
honors to the dead Confederates.
Can you imagine how we would be per
ceived by the rest of the world honoring these 
men who fought for slavery? said Jackson, 
the descendant of slaves.
The governor, speaker of the House and 
president pro tem of the Senate, who are all 
Republicans, have the power to decide who 
can lie in state. The head of the Senate, Glenn 
McConnell, is a Confederate re-enactor and is 
leading the effort to raise $40 million for a 
Hunley museum.
We have had many in South Carolina who
have given their lives, said state Rep. Joe 
Neal. And we have not had this kind of recog
nition for them.
Salvation Army begins 
charging for shelter
LOUISVILLE, Ky. (AP)  The citys 
Salvation Army chapter is charging homeless 
families $5 a night if they stay at its downtown 
shelter for more than a week, an apparently 
unprecedented change that has angered some 
homeless advocates. The Louisville organiza
tion started the fee this month as an incentive 
to pull people out of homelessness, said Maj. 
John Tolan, the agencys director of social ser
vices.
Some people have been staying for months 
at the shelter, he said. The National Coalition 
for the Homeless and the national Salvation 
Army in Arlington, Va., knew of no other shel
ters nationwide that charge families, although 
some charge individuals.
Its something we dont agree to, wouldnt 
support, said Donald Whitehead, executive 
director of the Washington, D.C.-based coali
tion. Some homeless advocates are urging the 
Salvation Army to reverse its policy.
This is totally unacceptable. Its pathetic, 
said Marlene Gordon, executive director of the 
Coalition for the Homeless, which coordinates 
services among 25 shelters in Louisville and 
southern Indiana.
Families are permitted to stay without 
charge for seven nights in the 12-family shel
ter. After that, they must begin paying $5 per 
family at the door each night.
Tolan said families who cant pay wont be 
turned away and can earn additional free 
nights if they are working to improve their lives.
Corrections clarifications
September 15: News  In the caption of the photo of the bagpipe player on page Al, the 
bagpipe player was misidentified. He was actually Patrick Regan.
September 22: News  In the article about the new journalism professor Tom OBoyle last 
week on page Al, the headline said that he had won the Pulitzer Prize. He did not.
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. To report a correction or clarification, contact the 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Johnson at (412) 268-2111.
7

---------------------------------------------------

ATTENTION VEGETARIANS AND VEGANS!
Three Flavors to Choose From: 
Indian, Mexican, Barbecue 
100% Meatless  Grab and Go Package 
Now Available at Mainstreet Market 
in Newell-Simon Atrium
A.V.I. Foodsystems, Inc.
Bring this ad in for 50 cents off!
PITTSBURGH SYMPHONY
Music for Everyone - Music for your Life
Mellon Drawn dqauuteu: COMes 2 CRITICAL!ACCLAfA4|r) arAtuAu
/-v , i 0 , r WEEKENDtOctober 3, 4, 5Pittsburgh Symphony Heinz Hall, in the heart of the Cultural District
Form and Feeling
Friday, October 3, 8:00 pm & Sunday, October 5, 2:30 pm 
Mariss Jansons, conductor  Andras Schiff, piano 
BRAHMS: Variations on a Theme by Haydn  DVORAK: Piano Concerto 
in G minor  SCHUMANN: Symphony No. 1, "Spring" (Friday only) 
MENDELSSOHN: Symphony No. 4, "Italian" (Sunday only)
Saturday, October 4, 8:00 pm 
Mariss Jansons, conductor ? Thomas Hampson, baritone 
BRAHMS: Variations on a Theme by Haydn  MAHLER: Songs of a 
Wayfarer  SCHUMANN: Symphony No. 1, "Spring"
Behind The Notes Concert Preview (one hour before the concert):Schumann and Brahms - The friendship between two of the 19th centurys greatest 
German composers. (Fri & Sat)
Brahms and Dvorak- How Johannes Brahms helped launch the career of Czech 
composer Antonin Dvorak. .(Sun)
Series sponsor:MellonStudent ticket sponsor:~~PEP5I
STUDENT RUSH TICKETS on sale at the Pittsburgh Symphony Box Office two hours before the concert with 
a valid student ID, or buy discounted tickets in advance at the University Center information desk.
For more information call 412.392.4900 or www.pittsburgbsymphony.org
A SUITE FOR LESS A HOTEL ROOM
Elegantly furnished one- or two-bedroom apartment suites include an equipped kitchen, fluffy linens, TV, VCR, cable movies, free local phone service, and reserved parking.
Convenientiy located at 5405 Fifth Avenue, Shadyside. Two blocks from Walnut Streets 
145 fashionable shops and 12 delicious restaurants. One mile to CMU/Pitt/Hospitals.
DAILY, WEEKLY, MONTHLY RATES
FREE HIGH-SPEED INTERNET ACCESS*
5405 Fifth Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15232(412) 441-4444http: //www. shadysideinn .com
^Internet access avaialable in most two-bedroom and Mansion Suites
ONE OF 2003& 
BEST OF THE YEAR
Richard Roeper
ww ms mgitirt
g BETTER LUCK TOMORROW
A FILM BY JUSTIN Lffl

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  SEPTEMBER 29, 2003QMQ throws party on CFA lawn University set for RIAA subpoenas
QUARTERS, from page Al
,cause.
Wed like to promote philan
thropy across campus, said Raz 
Tirosh, sophomore electrical and 
computer engineering major and the 
philanthropy chair for Kappa Delta 
Rho fraternity. Wed like to make 
this event bigger than its been in 
previous years.
And there was plenty of fun to be 
had. Aside from the quarters laid out 
around the CFA lawn, the event was 
something of a festival, celebrating 
philanthropy and the community. 
There were inflatable amusements, 
music, and free food.
Throughout the day, there was 
also a quarter shoot-out, where dif
ferent organizations, fraternities, 
sororities, or just groups of friends 
took turns shooting quarters into a 
series of buckets, a la Bozo the 
Clown. Any group of people was 
allowed to participate, so long as 
they signed up and had some quar
ters collected. The quarters were
kept to donate to the Childrens 
Fund, but the group that had the 
most successful shots won a DVD 
player.
Senate does not give direcdy to 
events where proceeds go to chari
ty, said Dan Papasian, a sophomore 
electrical and computer engineering
Wed like to promote 
philanthropy across 
campus.  
 Dan Papasian
major and Senator, citing the senate 
constitution. However, we thought 
that using money for the inflatables 
was an appropriate use of [funds], 
since its separate from the charity. 
Senate allocated $2400 for the 
event to fund the large inflatables. 
The rest of the money for the
event was mainly raised by brothers 
from KDR and sisters from KKG, who 
spent the past several weeks solicit
ing local businesses for donations in 
the form of prizes  money, ser
vices, and items like electronics were 
used in the raffle that took place 
toward the end of the fair.
The event itself drew a large 
crowd to the CFA lawn. People wan
dered around, admiring the quarters 
surrounding the lawn, shooting 
quarters into buckets, playing on 
inflatables, and enjoying the food.
Free food gets them here; inflata
bles keep them here, said Andrea 
Crews, sophomore physics major 
and sister from KKG. And they 
spend their money for a good cause.
The centerpiece of the event was 
the unveiling of a tile mosaic, a gift 
from the sisters of KKG to the chil
dren at the hospital.
Each sister drew something [on a 
tile] that makes them happy, said 
Chan. We put them all together as a 
mosaic to represent happiness. We 
want the children to be happy.
SHARING, from page A1
cases arent paid a penny for royalties 
anyways, wrote Brandon Kuczenski 
via e-mail; Kuczenski is a first-year 
masters student in mechanical engi
neering who also sent letters on this 
subject to the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette 
and Representative Mike Doyle of 
Pittsburgh.
The Universitys stance towards 
software piracy is clear and is listed in 
the Carnegie Mellon Computing 
Policy.
Any file is permissible to be shared 
provided that the sharer has the legal 
right to do so. If you dont own the 
file or have permission from the 
copyright holder or owner, you are 
not allowed to share it, stated John 
Lerchey, CMUs computer network 
security coordinator, via e-mail. The 
repercussions depend on what is 
being shared, who reports the viola
tion, and what mitigating circum
stances might be. The default reper
cussion for sharing media files
(music, movies, TV shows, etc.) in 
violation of copyright law is a suspen
sion of network access for your com
puter for a period of 45 days.
Lercheys advice for students using 
file-sharing programs includes sever
al points. He suggests not using such 
programs for any potentially illegal 
purpose. He also suggested disabling 
the file-sharing feature on your com
puter. A University of Chicago web
site, http://security. uchicago.edu/ 
peer-to-peer/noJileshare.shtm, con
tains a guide on how to disable this 
feature in many of the more popular 
peer-to-peer programs, robbing the 
RIAA of its main form of detection  
downloading their own content from 
users. However, this partially accom
plishes the RIAAs goal, because the 
less people share, the less download
ing occurs.
One possible way to deal with the 
issue of illegal file sharing might be 
for CMU to implement a private filesharing program similar to one that 
Penn State is currently considering,
in which the University would pay for 
the file sharing service and provide 
unlimited access to students. If this 
system were implemented, students 
would likely pay the fee through stu
dent activities or room and board the 
way cable television is available now.
It greatly bothers me that the 
RIAA is using such heavy-handed tac
tics against people who simply want 
to try different kinds of music, said 
Jonathan Mendelson, a sophomore 
studying computer science and math.
RIAA president Cary Sherman 
defended his association in a 
September 8 announcement on the 
RIAA website, writing Nobody likes 
playing the heavy and having to 
resort to litigation, but when your 
product is being regularly stolen, 
there comes a time when you have to 
take appropriate action. We simply 
cannot allow online piracy to contin
ue destroying the livelihoods of 
artists, musicians, songwriters, retail
ers, and everyone in the music indus
try.
SDC considers new laundry system
LAUNDRY, from page Al
A flat fee of $75 factored in with 
what were already paying for tuition, 
you wouldnt really notice it, said 
Alex Grubb, a first-year computer sci
ence major.
Neither Loo nor Grubb had heard 
about the debate.
Ellie Heidingsfelder, a first-year 
computer science major at Duquesne, 
appreciates their own cash-free sys
tem.
You dont have to cram all your 
clothes in, she said. You can do as 
many loads as you want, whenever 
you want.
SDC hosted a discussion on the
issue at their general body meeting 
last Wednesday. Objections to the 
proposal included the possibility that 
people would bring off-campus 
friends to use the machines and that 
there would be no incentive to con
serve water. There is also the fear 
that there will not enough machines 
to meet demand once they go quarterless.
Other facets of the C&G contract 
are a web-based monitoring system 
that allows CMU to track cycles at 
every machine along with a water 
savings of 17 gallons per load as com
pared to the old machines.
SDC president Mark Roboff said 
his organization will have a formal
recommendation ready for Housing 
next week, based on the feedback 
they have received and a vote at the 
next general body meeting.
We have been tracking and saving 
every misc. market post, said Roboff. 
SDC has also assembled 22 com
ments from their open meeting, and 
held open town hall meetings to dis
cuss the idea at various dormitories. 
Roboff said that judging from the 
town hall meetings, most people 
were in favor of the flat fee system 
assuming more machines were 
installed, and that people agreed on 
about a $60 - $80 fee range. No for
mal poll of student opinion will be 
conducted.Thorpe may lead Doha campus
Kathy Saye/Junior Staff
Tim Bauer, junior information sciences major, and Matt Simone, sophomore materials science and engineering major, line 
quarters up around the CFA lawn for last Fridays Quarter Mile of Quarters event.
QATAR, from page A1
and Texas A&M. Murphy reiterated 
the point.
The core question for us is the 
CMU experience broadly defined, he 
said, which extends to things like lec
tures, athletics, and other student 
activities. He said that student activi
ties that we would typically think of 
are less common in secondary 
schools in the region, but this will not 
stop them from sprouting at CMUQatar, as they already are at the vari
ous programs already situated in 
Education City.
Opportunities abound over 
there, said Elliott. He said much 
work remains, like setting up offices, 
hiring staff, printing materials in 
Arabic, and setting up a website.
I learned a lot about how admis
sions is done, how advertising is 
done, said Thorpe. There are cultur
al phenomena that a dean must be 
aware of in administering Carnegie 
Mellon if it is in another country. For 
example said Thorpe, planning a 
coed swimming event would likely 
meet with little success, since the 
sense of modesty in women in that 
part of the world is much different
than that of the West. However, he 
also found in his trip that the youth of 
the country are much like those in 
the U.S., indulging in activities like 
hitting the mall, playing sports, and 
just hanging out.
Graduating seniors might want to 
look eastward after graduation as 
well. Thorpe would like to see some 
of our graduates at the new campus 
as teaching assistants.
Im not happy to be leaving robot
ics, but Ive been in robotics for 24 
years, said Thorpe. Its time for 
someone else to run robotics, and for 
me to see another part of the world.
We're good at fitting people to jobso
/
It wouldnt be clear to every firm that a man 
with an M.F. A. in poetry was the right choice 
to head an automated block trading unit. Or 
that a designer of solar-powered race cars was 
the right woman to help launch a new ven
ture in computational chemistry. But after we 
talked to them, it was clear to us.
The D. E. Shaw group is an investment and 
technology development firm. Since 1988 
weve grown into a number of closely related 
entities with approximately US $5 billion in 
aggregate capital by hiring smart people from 
a wide range of backgrounds and letting them 
implementand managewhat they invent.
And jobs to people.
A robotics guru. A nationally ranked blackjack 
player. An operatic mezzo-soprano. And a lot 
of people who are just exceptionally strong in 
CS, EE, math, and finance.
The firm currently has openings in quantita
tive analysis, software development, informa
tion technology, computer architecture, 
business development, computational chem
istry, finance, and accounting. Were looking 
for creative but pragmatic people: articulate, 
curious, and driven. Outworking environment 
is intense but surprisingly casual. We provide 
unusual opportunities for growth. And we 
compensate extraordinary people extraordi
narily well.
The D. E. Shaw group will host an infor
mation session on Wednesday, October 8 at 
7:00 pm in Baker Hall, Room 235B. On-campus 
interviews will take place October 9. To apply 
for an interview, log on to www.studentaffairs. 
cmu.edu/career/tartanTRAKJlogin.html If this 
isn't possible, please send a resume and cover 
letter stating your GPA and standardized 
test scores, broken down by section where 
applicable, to oncampus@deshaw.com.
All applications must be received by 
September 22.
Members of the D. E. Shaw group do not discriminate in employment matters on the basis of race, color, religion, gender, national origin, age, military service eligibility, veteran status, 
sexual orientation, marital status, disability, or any other protected class.
oncampus@deshaw.com DEShaw&Co
J

---------------------------------------------------

ScienceTechnology
29 September 2003THE TARTANPage A5
No Monkey Business:
Primates strike for grapes
by Karen Hoffmann
Science and Technology Editor
Monkeys demand equal pay for 
equal work. Researchers at Emory 
University have found that 
capuchins, a South American mon
key species, refuse to accept rewards 
for their work if they see others 
receiving higher-value rewards for 
equal or less work.
The findings of graduate student 
Sarah Brosnan and professor of pri
mate behavior Frans de Waal, both 
from Emory, were published in the 
September 18 issue of Nature.
We learned that capuchin mon
keys do respond negatively to being 
treated unfairly, which implies that 
the human sense of inequity aversion 
has an evolutionary origin, said 
Brosnan.
This is a very interesting study, 
part of a broad range of findings now 
emerging in which non-human ani
mals show behaviors some might 
have thought of as uniquely human, 
said Jay McClelland, co-director of 
the CMU-Pitt Center for the Neural 
Basis of Cognition.
Colleen Gault, a senior in SHS, 
worked with de Waals capuchins 
over the summer on her own 
research project.
Capuchins, said Gault, have the 
most human-like brains of all mon
keys (but not apes). They are social 
and cooperative; they share their 
food.
This study shows that the concept 
of fair pay and what you deserve 
goes back pretty far, she said. New 
World monkeys like capuchins 
diverged from our common ancestor 
40 million years ago.
De Waal directs the Living Links 
Center, part of Yerkes National 
Primate Research Center.
They use other primates to study, 
basically, the human past, said 
Gault. She praised the way Living 
Links monkeys were housed.
They live in social housing with 
kinship groups, and have an 
indoor/outdoor enclosure, where 
they can interact to some degree 
with the natural environment, she 
said. I.e., eat bugs.
For her research, Gault used what 
she called a match-to-sample para
digm.
I was training them to indicate 
when things were the same," she 
said. She showed the capuchins 
images that they then had to match 
to a subsequent image.
We started out with really con
trastive basic stimuli that differed in 
shape, color, everything, then moved 
up to highly complex images, such as 
black-and-white details of insects, 
she said.
Gault found that the capuchins 
were able to match physically identi
cal things even if the pictures were 
different.
For example, if she first showed 
them a picture of a dragonfly, then 
one of a dragonfly and an ant, the
capuchins would point to the drag
onfly.
The good thing about the 
research was that it opens up doors 
for other research, said Gault. 
Once you have a way of testing what 
monkeys perceive as the same, you 
can begin to investigate abstract con
cepts.
Other possibilities using the 
match-to-sample method include 
testing to see whether capuchins can 
separate monkeys that are in their 
family from those not in their family.
Its clear that they have an under
standing of kinship, she said.
Gault thinks that kinship and rank 
could affect how the capuchins react 
to unfairness. High-ranking and lowranking monkeys might react differ
ently to perceived inequity. For 
example, a low-ranking monkey that 
sees a high-ranking monkey get a 
better reward might not react harsh
ly-There is a question as to whether 
the human sense of inequity aver
sion, or fairness, is an evolved behav
ior or a cultural artifact stemming 
from our cultural institutions, like 
governments, schools, and reli
gions, said Brosnan.
The fact that it appears in a non
human primate implies that it is 
evolved, although undoubtedly 
affected by culture in human soci
eties, and thus plays a major role in 
cooperation, she said.
What I find interesting about this 
and other studies is that these behaviors arent necessarily shared across 
all other species, but can vary from 
species to species in ways that relate 
to species-specific patterns of social 
organization, said McClelland. He is 
interested to see, in future studies, 
the roles experience and genetics 
play in leading to these different 
behavior patterns.
The importance of this research, to 
Gault, is to show the scientific com
munity and the public all that these 
animals have in common with us. 
That enhances their position in our 
mind, and therefore theyre more 
deserving of rightful treatment.
 Stuff like this shows that theyre 
not just automatons, she said, but 
actually have a sense of self, of fair
ness, and of justice.
THEAR Namtrnnma nChn immp r/Ch arNJuCuEmo SCfrn Aroun
by Kevin Chang
Staffwriter
If you want to sell something on 
eBay, provide good customer service 
and establish a good reputation. This 
wras the message of visiting professor 
Paul Resnick at Wednesdays Human 
Computer Interaction Institute
(HCII) seminar. 
With partners Richard
Zeckhauser, John Swanson, and 
Kate Lockwood, Resnick showed that 
sellers with a good reputation on 
eBay got more business and profit on 
average, but sellers with poor repu
tations were not hurt.
There is a lot of theory about how 
reputations and reputation systems 
should work, said Resnick. I want
ed to see whether buyers are really 
willing to pay more to buy an equiva
lent item from a more established 
seller.
To do the study, Resnick found a 
seller with over 2000 positive 
reviews and only one negative 
review to sell items under multiple 
identities. The seller continued to 
sell his usual products under his 
established name and seven brandnew identities so that differences in 
seller style would not cause unin
tended effects.
The project was designed to
reduce the number of confounding 
variables that have been present in 
past reputation studies.
We used slightly changed word
ing [in product descriptions], said 
Resnick. Matched sets of postcards 
were sold to reduce the chances of 
item differences polluting the exper
iment.
During the first round of testing, 
the new identities had no user 
reviews. In the second round, after 
each had sold a few items, the 
research team intentionally gave 
some negative comments of varying 
degrees.
About one hundred pairs of post
cards with approximately equal
value were sold in each round. 
Identical pairs were not sold at the 
same time to prevent bidders from 
switching between seller identities. 
The order in which identities sold 
was balanced and was later shown to 
have no effect.
The team hypothesized that the 
established identity would have a 
better chance at making sales and 
get better prices on those sales, that 
sellers would get lower prices with 
each negative review, and that posi
tive reviews could make up for a sell
er being new.
Only the first hypothesis was vali
dated.
The research team was unable to
explain why negatives had little to no 
effect, but Resnick guessed that the 
sample might have been too small or 
that people simply did not care. He 
also mentioned clicking through the 
rating window as a possibility, but 
eBay has changed its system since 
the study was done so that a percent
age positive rating is shown before 
items.
Resnick said that more research is 
needed in the future, especially in 
different categories of items.
Resnick is a tenured professor and 
founding member of the University 
of Michigan School of Information 
and is on sabbatical at CMU for this 
academic year.
Design flaws are necessary
Duke professor lectures on why there is no perfect design
by Susan Peich
Junior Staffwriter
From a paper clip to a Herman 
Miller chair, even the best products 
are subject to flaws. But failure in a 
products design can be used as a tool 
to improve its engineering, says 
Henry Petroski in his latest book, 
Small Things Considered: Why There Is 
No Perfect Design.
Last Friday, the Mechanical 
Engineering Distinguished Speaker 
Series hosted Petroski, the 
Aleksandar S. Vesic Professor in Civil 
and Environmental Engineering from 
Duke University. To a standing-roomonly crowd in a shallow Scaife lecture 
hall, he spoke about his current 
research in failure analysis and 
design theory.
Students familiar with his work 
anticipated the tone of his lecture.
He makes engi
neering concepts 
accessible to all 
disciplines, said 
Lane Martin, a 
senior in material 
science engineering 
and a reader of 
Petroskis other two 
books.
The seminar was 
divided into two J 
portions: Petroskis
lecture, and a panel 
discussion that 
included CMU profes
sors David Hounshell, of history 
and SDS, and Craig Vogel, of 
design.
Without getting overly technical 
Petroski discussed how per
fected design would 
suggest that 
theres no need 
to improve on 
the inventions 
that exist today.
On the con
trary, he said, our countrys patent 
process shows that things are not 
only being invented, but are also 
being improved as people find fail
ures with the products that they use.
A good example is a typical wire 
paper clip. In its current form, it 
seems to hold papers together well, 
yet over one hundred patents have
been filed to improve upon its use.
Petroski cited other examples from 
his recent book to explain such con
cepts as novelty distracting from 
function and design practicality.
Although he touched lightly on the 
fact that engineers and designers face 
constraints, some students felt he did 
not elaborate enough on their influ
ence.
Engineers face many constraints: 
time, budget, safety, but most of all, 
competition against other engineer
ing firms who are bidding for the 
same job, said Jonathan Evans, a 
doctoral student in mechanical engi
neering who also works on an engi
neering team for Bayer Polymers in 
Robinson Township.
The decisions are tough.
During the panel discussion, Craig 
Vogel got up from the Herman Miller 
Aeron chair he was using to discuss 
improvement of design over several 
iterations.
This is the original model of this 
chair, said Vogel as he held the 
chair in front of him. It was 
very expensive, but it was 
designed as the first chair with a 
breathable seat
ing surface. 
He further 
explained that 
the original 
model, the 
manufactur
er has 
added an 
adjustable lumbar 
roll and arms that 
turn away from the 
body. The third itera
tion offers all of these features, 
yet, as Vogel said, It is 
much cheap
er than the 
original. 
Petroski 
summed 
up his talk 
with one 
major point: Talking about failure is 
not bad.
In discussing the fall of the World 
Trade Centers twin towers, he said 
that engineers can only design some
thing to take so much.
The public expects designers and 
engineers to give it their best shot, 
said Petroski.
Courtesy of Herman Miller
Jeff Cullers/Photo Editor
Andrew Achtermann, an employee of Wright Brothers Aeroplane Company, stands with the replica he helped to build.
CMU, Pitt celebrate Wrights, Langley
by Teh Seng Keat
Junior Staffwriter
It has been nearly a hundred 
years since Orville and Wilbur 
Wright had their first successful 
manned flight, which lasted for 
almost twelve seconds. In celebra
tion, last Wednesday CMU and Pitt 
organized a Wright airplane exhibi
tion and a symposium on the 
achievements of the Wright broth
ers and their closest competitor, 
Samuel Piermont Langley.
The CFA lawn played host to a 
working replica of one of the five 
experimental airplanes originally 
built by the Wright brothers. The 
symposium, entitled Flight 
Appreciation: The Wright Brothers
& Samuel Langley, held at Pitts 
Benedum Hall, featured Arthur 
Davidson, senior ECE researcher, 
and Nick Engler, chief builder of 
the Wright airplane replica.
The main attraction of the day
long event was none other than the 
display of the replica, made by the 
Wright Brothers Airplane Company 
of Dayton, Ohio, an organization of 
educators, historians, and aviators
I
that constructs the planes and orga
nizes nationwide tours of them. 
The society has about 200 mem
bers, of whom 30 were involved in 
this project. The plane took around 
six months to complete, said Engler.
We hope that by building such 
replicas, we are able to tell the 
Wright mission and the story of 
Samuel P. Langley in a unique and 
interesting way, said Engler.
Viewers were surprised to learn 
that parts of this impressive con
struct, the wing ribs, were actually 
built by children.
Young people who visit our 
workshop at the Boonshoft 
Museum of Discovery in Dayton are 
offered an opportunity to help 
build a part of the replica, said 
Engler. The children can then not 
only live a part of the process and 
be exposed to the story in a person
al way, but could also foster quali
ties such as team effort in them
selves.
I personally hope that my work 
could serve to inspire the next gen
eration to immerse themselves in 
the fields of aeronautics, and even 
if that is not the case, to at least 
inspire them to chase the dreams
they have as the Wright brothers 
did, said Engler.
The response to the event has 
been great, said Andrew 
Achtermann, one of the organiza
tions craftsmen who helped build 
the replica and who also served for 
the day as a guide to the exhibition.
It was an awesome response 
throughout the day, he said. 
There were lots of people  mem
bers of the public, students, and 
even children.
Maureen Burns, a first-year art 
major, felt that the display was 
inspirational.
It is really beautiful, far more 
beautiful than I had expected," she 
said. She spent the day sketching 
the replica as an assignment for her 
art class.
Non-University members of the 
community were also attracted to 
the event.
Someone told me that the dis
play was wonderful, so I came 
immediately to have a look, said 
Barbara Wright, who has been liv
ing in Pittsburgh for the past 38 
years. Amazing. It looks just like 
the original that I saw at the 
Smithsonian Institute.
Courtesy of Colleen Gault
Nina is a capuchin at Emory Universitys Living Links Center, where researchers found that monkeys will refuse unfair pay.
SciTecKBriefs
Scientists map 
dogs genome
Researchers at the Institute for 
Genomic Research and the Center for 
Advancement of Genomics have suc
cessfully sequenced a standard-size 
poodle named Shadow. Last week in 
the journal Science, the study of gene 
researcher J. Craig Venters family 
dog will show the first gene sequenc
ing of a pet.
According to Ewen F. Kirkness of 
the Institute for Genomic Research, 
the first author of the study, genetic 
sequencing is important for medical 
research because dogs share about 
360 of the same genetic disorders 
that are known in humans. The 
rough draft shows that dogs have 
about 2.4 billion base pairs of DNA, 
which is about a half a billion fewer 
than humans.
Source: MSNBC.com
Officials vow to 
save no-call list
A federal judge struck down a pop
ular measure that would allow con
sumers to curb telemarketing calls as 
a violation of free speech last 
Thursday. In response, Federal Trade 
Commission Chairman Timothy 
Muris said he would seek every 
recourse to rescue the do not call 
list of 50 million phone numbers, 
which would have been off-limits to 
telemarketers starting next week.
U.S. District Judge Edward 
Nottingham in Denver sidelined the 
list, commenting that the no-call list 
amounted to a government restric
tion on lawful and truthful free 
speech. His decision could poten
tially put 38 state-run no-call lists at 
risk as well.
Muris said Nottinghams interpre
tation ignored personal privacy 
rights that were also established in 
the Constitution.
The head of the trade group that 
filed the lawsuit said that telemar
keters will continue to make calls 
even to those with their numbers on 
the list.
Source: USAToday.com
Rat joins list of 
cloned animals
Researchers at the Institut 
National de la Recherche 
Agronomique in Jouy en Josas, 
France, and a French company called 
GenOway announced last Thursday 
that they had successfully cloned a 
laboratory rat.
Ralph is the first cloned rat of 
many to be used for careful study of 
genetically identical animals. Rats 
turned out to be more difficult to 
clone than sheep, cattle, or mice 
because their eggs begin to activate 
almost as soon as they leave the 
ovary. This created a problem for the 
scientists, who had to painstakingly 
remove an egg cell, take out its nucle
us, and replace it with a cell nucleus 
from the animal to be cloned.
Source: CNN.com
Segway recalls 
6000 scooters
About 6000 of the futuristic 
Segway Human Transporter scooters 
are being recalled for an upgrade 
because some of them can suddenly 
run out of power, causing riders to 
fall off. A power problem occurs 
under certain operating conditions, 
especially when the batteries are 
running out, Segway and the U.S. 
safety regulators said in last Fridays 
statement. So far, Segway has 
received three reports of riders 
falling off, including one person who 
sustained a head injury requiring 
stitches. According to the statement, 
the problem can occur if the rider 
speeds up abruptly, encounters an 
obstacle, or continues to ride after 
receiving a low battery alert.
The Segway carries one person 
who stands on a small platform 
between two side-by-side wheels. 
Leaning slightly forward moves the 
scooter forward, leaning back makes 
it reverse course, and twisting the 
handle makes it turn.
Source: ABCNews.com
Compiled by 
Lauren Sauer

---------------------------------------------------

FALL 2003 FINAL EXAM SCHEDULE
Final exams are scheduled by course number, therefore all sections for a particular course will have final exams on the same day UNLESS it is noted in the schedule. The university final exam policy can be found at this website: http://www.cmu.edu/policies/documents/Exams.html Faculty and administration reserve the right to cancel a final exam. Therefore, prior to confirming travel arrangements, please contact your instructor(s) to verify the date and time of your exam. For further information on exam cancellations or classroom changes, please reference The Hub - Enrollment Services website: http://www.cmu.edu/hub/ Questions concerning the university exam policy or its intent should be directed to Indira Nair, Vice Provost for Education.
5FRFEH IG-SP
Chemistry 
09543 AlMASS SPECTROMETRY
Civil and Environmental Engineering 
12411 Al ENGINEERNG ECONOMICS
12712 Al SUSTAINABILITY
Mathematics 
21123 11CALCULUS APPROXIMATN
Material Science and Engineering 
27201 11 PERFECT CRYSTALS
Fri. Oct 17 8:30 am - 11:30 am Ml 448
Fri. Oct 17 8:30 am - 11:30 am PH 100
Fri. Oct 17 8:30 am - 11:30 am BH 136A
Fri. Oct 17 8:30 am - 11:30 am DH 2315
Fri. Oct 17 8:30 am - 11:30 am SH 125
27301 11 
27421 Al 
27721 Al
Statistics 
36728 Al
MICROSTRUC & PROP 
PROCESSING DESIGN 
PROCESSING DESIGN
TIME SERIES ANALYSIS
Business Administration
70104 Al INTRO TOP BUS HIS
Fri. Oct 17 8:30 am - 11:30 am
Fri. Oct 17 8:30 am - 11:30 am
Fri. Oct 17 8:30 am - 11:30 am
Fri. Oct 17 8:30 am - 11:30 am
Fri. Oct 17 8:30 am - 11:30 am
DNSNPTNA -RC 5FRFE* IG-SP
DH 1212 
WEH 5403 
WEH 5403
PH 225B
DH 2210
Biological Sciences15856 ACMPTL MOLE BIO GENMCMon. Dec 8 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmPH A18C
03121 AMODERN BIOLOGYThu. Dec 11 8:30 am - 11:30 amUC McConomy15869 ASP TPCS IN GRAPHICSThu. Dec 11 8:30 am - 11:30 amWEH 8427
03121 BMODERN BIOLOGYThu. Dec 11 8:30 am - 11:30 amUC McConomy
03231 ABIOCHEMISTRY IThu. Dec 11 8:30 am - 11:30 amWEH 7500Robotics
03330 AGENETICSThu. Dec 11 1:00pm - 4:00pmPH 10016859 AMCRO ELCTRO MCH SYSMon. Dec 8 8:30 am - 11:30 amDH 1112
03330 BGENETICSThu. Dec 11 1:00pm - 4:00pmPH 100
03360 ABIOLOGY OF THE BRAINFri. Dec 12 1:00pm -4:00pmDH 2302Software Engineering
03380 AVIROLOGYTue. Dec 9 8:30 am - 11:30 amPH A18A17635 ASOFTWARE MEASUREMENTTue. Dec 9 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmNSH 3002
03438 APHYSCL BIOCHEMISTRYMon. Dec 8 8:30 am - 11:30 amMl 35517651 AMODELS SOFTWR DEVL PMTWed. Dec 10 9:00 am - 12:00 pmNSH 1305
03439 AINTRO TO BIOPHYSICSMon. Dec 8 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmWEH 8427
03511 AGENOMICS & MOLEC BIOMon. Dec 8 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmPH A18C
03711 AGENOMICS & MOLEC BIOMon. Dec 8 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmPH A18CElectrical and Computer Engineering
03/38 APHYSCL BIOCHEMISTRYMon. Dec 8 8:30 am - 11:30 amMl 35518100 1INTRO ELEC COMP ENGRTue. Dec 9 8:30 am - 11:30 amDH 2210, 2315
18202 1MATH FNDTN ELEC ENGRTue. Dec 16 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmBH A51, A53
Human -Computer Interaction18220 1FUND OF ELEC ENGRMon. Dec 8 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmHH B131, B103
05410 AINTRO HCI METHODSThu. Dec 11 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmDH 1212, 121718240 1FUND OF COMPUT ENGRMon. Dec 15 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmDH 2315
05431 ASFTWR ARCH USR INTFCMon. Dec 8 8:30 am - 11:30 amSH 12518303 AENG ELECTROMAGNETICSMon. Dec 8 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmPH A19
05499 ESPECIAL TOPICSMon. Dec 8 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmDH 111718315 AOPTICAL COMM SYSTEMSMon. Dec 15 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmHH B103
05610 AINTRO TO HCI METHODSThu. Dec 11 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmDH 1212, 121718322 1ANAL/DES DGTL CIRCTue. Dec 16 8:30 am - 11:30 amMM 103
05631 ASFTWR ARC USR INTRFCMon. Dec 8 8:30 am - 11:30 amSH 12518340 ADIGITAL COMPUTATIONThu. Dec 11 8:30 am - 11:30 amPH A18C
05771 AHCI PROCESS & THEORYMon. Dec 8 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmWEH 540318347 1INTRO TO COMPUT ARCHThu. Dec 11 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmBH 136 A
05810 ACOMP SUPPRT COOP WRKMon. Dec 15 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmWEH 642318349 1INTRO EMBEDDED SYSMon. Dec 8 8:30 am - 11:30 amSEI AUD
05835 ASPCH RCGTN & UNDRSTDMon. Dec 15 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmWEH 842718396 1SIGNALS AND SYSTEMSMon. Dec 15 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmDH 2210
05899 DSPECIAL TOPICSTue. Dec 9 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmDH 210518412 ASEMICONDCTR DEVCS IIThu. Dec 11 8:30 am - 11:30 amSH 212
18414 AINTRO TO MEMSMon. Dec 8 8:30 am - 11:30 amDH 1112
Chemical Engineering18450 AWIRELESS COMMUNCATNSMon. Dec 8 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmWEH 7500
06100 1INTRO TO CHEM ENGRFri. Dec 12 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmBH A51, A5318474 1EMBED CONTROL SYSTMSMon. Dec 15 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmPH A18A
06221 ATHERMODYN AMICSTue. Dec 9 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmPH 10018482 ATELCOM TCH POL & MGTFri. Dec 12 8:30 am - 11:30 amPH A18A
06321 ACHEM ENGR THERMDYNMCMon. Dec 8 8:30 am - 11:30 amWEH 540318630 ACOMPUTERS & SECRUITYThu. Dec 11 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmMM 103
06323 AHEAT & MASS TRANSFERTue. Dec 9 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmBH 136A18715 APHYCS APP MAGNETISMTue. Dec 9 8:30 am - 11:30 amWEH 8427
06422 ACHEM REACTION ENGRNGTue. Dec 16 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmWEH 750018730 AINTRO COMPUTER SECTue. Dec 16 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmBH A51, A53
06609 APHYS CHEM MACROMOLThu. Dec 11 8:30 am - 11:30 amWEH 642318756 APAC SWTCNG COMP NETWThu. Dec 11 8:30 am - 11:30 amSEI AUD
06619 ASEMICON PROCESS TECHMon. Dec 15 8:30 am - 11:30 amDH A31718756 GPAC SWTCNG COMP NETWThu. Dec 11 8:30 am - 11:30 amSEI AUD
06621 ABIOTCHNLGY & ENV PROMon. Dec 15 8:30 am - 11:30 amDH 111218760 AVLSI CAD: LOG TO LAYMon. Dec 15 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmPH 100
06705 AADV CHE THRMODYNMCSMon. Dec 8 8:30 am - 11:30 amDH A31718764 AINBTWN IC DSGN & MNFFri. Dec 12 8:30 am - 11:30 amBH A53
06713 AMATH TECH CHEM ENGRFri. Dec 12 8:30 am - 11:30 amPH 125C18774 1EMBED CONTROL SYSTMSMon. Dec 15 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmPH A18A
06721 ABIOTCHNLGY & ENV PROMon. Dec 15 8:30 am - 11:30 amDH 111218792 AADV DIGTL SIGNL PRCSMon. Dec 8 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmSH 125
18843 AMOBLE COMP SYS & APPThu. Dec 11 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmSH 125
Chemistry
09103 1ATOMS MOL CHEM CHNGMon. Dec 8 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmDH 2210Engineering and Public Policy
09105 1INTRO MOD CHEMSTRY IMon. Dec 8 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmDH 2315, 221019402 ATELCOM TCH POL & MGTFri. Dec 12 8:30 am - 11:30 amPH A18A
09105 2INTRO MOD CHEMSTRY IMon. Dec 8 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmDH 2315, 221019619 ASP TPC PROD LIABILTYTue. Dec 9 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmPH 125B
09106 1MODERN CHEMISTRY IIThu. Dec 11 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmPH 10019631 ACOMPTRS & SECURITYThu. Dec 11 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmMM 103
09107 1HONORS CHEMISTRYMon. Dec 8 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmDH 121219712 ATELCOM TCH POL & MGTFri. Dec 12 8:30 am - 11:30 amPH A18A
09217 1ORGANIC CHEMISTRY IMon. Dec 15 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmUC McConomy19751 AAIR QUALITY ENGNRNGThu. Dec 11 8:30 am - 11:30 amPH A18B
09221 1LAB I: INTR CHMY ANLTue. Dec 9 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmDH 1212, 1112, 1211
09231 AMATHMTCL METHD CHEMFri. Dec 12 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmPH A18AMathematical Sciences
09331 AMODRN ANALYTCL INSTRMon. Dec 15 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmDH 121221101 A2FRESHMAN MATH SEMINRThu. Dec 11 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmPH A18A
09344 1PHYSICAL CHEM QUANTMMon. Dec 8 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmDH A31721105 1PRE-CALCULUSFri. Dec 12 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmDH A317
09509 APHY CHEM MACROMOLECThu. Dec 11 8:30 am - 11:30 amWEH 642321111 1CALCULUS 1Tue. Dec 16 8:30 am - 11:30 amPH 100
09518 ABIOORGANIC CHEMISTRYMon. Dec 15 8:30 am - 11:30 amDH 230221112 1CALCULUS IIMon. Dec 15 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmWEH 7500
09701 AQUANTUM CHEMISTRY IMon. Dec 8 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmMl 35521120 1DIFFERENTIAL INT CAL.Tue. Dec 9 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmDH 2210, 2315, 2302
09715 APHY CHEM MACROMOLECThu. Dec 11 8:30 am - 11:30 amWEH 642321120 2DIFFERENTIAL INT CALTue. Dec 9 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmDH 2210, 2315, 2302
09718 ABIOORGANIC CHEMMon. Dec 15 8:30 am - 11:30 amDH 230221120 3DIFFERENTIAL INT CALTue. Dec 9 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmDH 2210, 2315, 2302
21121 1INTEGRATION DIF EQUAMon. Dec 15 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmDH 2210
Center forAutomated Learning and Discovery21122 1INTGR DIFF EQUA APPXTue. Dec 16 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmUC McConomy
10701 AMACHINE LEARNINGMon. Dec 8 8:30 am - 11:30 amWEH 750021122 2INTGR DIFF EQUA APPXTue. Dec 16 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmUC McConomy
10705 AINTERMED STATISTICSTue. Dec 16 8:30 am - 11:30 amSH 12521127 1CONCEPTS OF MATHMTCSFri. Dec 12 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmHH B131
10706 AGRPH, STAT & CAS MODThu. Dec 11 8:30 am - 11:30 amDH 111721127 2CONCEPTS OF MATHMTCSFri. Dec 12 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmUC McConomy
10711 ATPC PRVY ANNMTY DATAFri. Dec 12 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmPH 125C21127 3CONCEPTS OF MATHMTCSFri. Dec 12 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmUC McConomy
21131 1ANALYSIS 1Tue. Dec 16 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmSH 125
Language Technology Institute21228 1DISCRETE MATHFri. Dec 12 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmSH 12511682 AINTRO IR NLP MT SPCHTue. Dec 9 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmPH A18A21241 AMATRIX ALGEBRAThu. Dec 11 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmBH A51, A53
11711 AALGORITHMS FOR NLPTue. Dec 9 8:30 am - 11:30 amWEH 540321241 BMATRIX ALGEBRAThu. Dec 11 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmBH A51, A53
11751 ASPEECH RECOGNITIONMon. Dec 15 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmWEH 842721241 CMATRIX ALGEBRAThu. Dec 11 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmBH 136A11791 ASOFTWR ENGRNG FOR ITFri. Dec 12 8:30 am - 11:30 amWEH 750021256 1MULTI AN LYSIS APPROXThu. Dec 11 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmUC McConomy
21257 1MODL METH OPTIMIZATNThu. Dec 11 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmUC McConomy
Civil and Environmental Engineering21259 1CALCULUS IN 3 - DTue. Dec 16 8:30 am - 11:30 amDH 2210, 2315, 230212100 AINTRO CIV & ENV ENGTue. Dec 9 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmDH 1212, 121721259 2CALCULUS IN 3 - DTue. Dec 16 8:30 am - 11:30 amDH 2210, 2315, 230212251 AINTRO ENVIR ENGINTue. Dec 9 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmHH B13121260 1DIFFRENTL EQUATIONSMon. Dec 8 8:30 am - 11:30 amPH 10012271 AIN CO AP CIV ENV ENGFri. Dec 12 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmSH 12521260 2DIFFRENTL EQUATIONSMon. Dec 8 8:30 am - 11:30 amPH 10012331 ASOLID MECHANICSMon. Dec 15 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmBH A5321300 ABASIC LOGICMon. Dec 8 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmBH 136A12611 APROJCT MNGMNT CONSTRMon. Dec 8 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmPH A18A21341 ALINEAR ALGEBRATue. Dec 9 8:30 am - 11:30 amMM 10312635 ASTRUCTURAL ANALYSISMon. Dec 15 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmPH 125B21355 AADVANCED CALCULUS 1Thu. Dec 11 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmWEH 750012651 AAIR QUALITY ENGINThu. Dec 11 8:30 am - 11:30 amPH A18B21355 BADVANCED CALCULUS 1Thu. Dec 11 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmWEH 750012655 AWATER QUALITY ENGRNGTue. Dec 9 8:30 am - 11:30 amPH A19A21357 ASEQ & SERIES FNCTNSThu. Dec 11 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmWEH 642312704 APR EST MTHD ENG SYSTue. Dec 16 8:30 am - 11:30 amPH 125C21369 ANUMERICAL METHODSMon. Dec 15 8:30 am - 11:30 amDH 121212706 ACIV SYS INV PLN PRCEFri. Dec 12 8:30 am - 11:30 amSH 12521370 ADSCRETE TIME FINANCEFri. Dec 12 1:00 pm -4:00 pmPH A18A12711 AADV PROJ MNGMT CONSTMon. Dec 8 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmPH A18A21441 ANUMBER THEORYThu. Dec 11 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmPH 125C12713 A2ENVIRONMNTL MNGMNTMon. Dec 8 8:30 am - 11:30 am .PH 125B21470 ASELECTED TOPC ANALYSThu. Dec 11 8:30 am - 11:30 amWEH 540312720 AWATER RESOURCE CHEMMon. Dec 15 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmPH 125B21476 AORD DIFF EQUATIONSTue. Dec 9 8:30 am - 11:30 amDH A31712740 ACAE TOOLThu. Dec 11 8:30 am - 11:30 amPH 125B21600 AMATH LOGIC 1Mon. Dec 8 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmBH 136A12751 AADV TPCS AIR QUALITYThu. Dec 11 8:30 am - 11:30 amPH A18B
12755 AFINITE ELEM MECH IMon. Dec 15 8:30 am - 11:30 amPH 125CMechanical Engineering
24101 1FUND OF MECH ENGRThu. Dec 11 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmDH 2210ComputerScience24221 ATHERMODYN AMICS 1Fri. Dec 12 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmBH A51, A5315211 1FUND DATA STRUCT ALGTue. Dec 9 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmUC McConomy24311 ANUMERICAL METHODSMon. Dec 8 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmPH 10015212 1PRINCIPLES PROGR AMMGMon. Dec 15 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmUC McConomy24322 1HEAT TRANSFERThu. Dec 11 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmDH 231515213 1INTRO COMP SYSTEMSTue. Dec 9 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmDH 221024351 ADYN AMICSMon. Dec 8 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmPH 10015312 1FNDTNS PROGRMG LANGMon. Dec 15 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmWEH 540324354 AGENERAL ROBOTICSTue. Dec 16 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmBH 136A15351 AGR THEOR IDEAS CS IITue. Dec 16 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmMM 10324421 1INTERNL COMBSTENGNSMon. Dec 15 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmSH 12515354 ACOMPTNL DISCRTE MATHMon. Dec 15 8:30 am - 11:30 amWEH 642324751 AINTRO SOLID MECH 1Thu. Dec 11 8:30 am - 11:30 amSH 12515384 AROBOTIC MANIPULATIONThu. Dec 11 8:30 am - 11:30 amPH 10024767 AMECH OF FRAC/FATIGUEMon. Dec 8 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmSH 20615391 1TECH CONSULT COMUNTYFri. Dec 12 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmUC Rangos
15392 ASP TPC INTD COMP MSCThu. Dec 11 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmDH 1212Material Science and Engineering15394 ASP TPC PRVY ANYT DTAFri. Dec 12 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmPH 125C27100 1ENG MATERLS OF FUTREThu. Dec 11 8:30 am - 11:30 amBH A5115410 AOP SYS DESIGN & IMPLMon. Dec 8 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmBH A51, A5327202 12DEFECTS IN MATLSTue. Dec 9 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmWEH 540315411 ACOMPILER DESIGNMon. Dec 15 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmWEH 750027215 ATHERMODYNMC OF MTRLSThu. Dec 11 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmDH A31715441 ACOMPUTER NETWORKSTue. Dec 9 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmPH 10027302 12MICROSTRUC & PROP IIMon. Dec 8 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmDH 111215451 1ALGORITHM DES & ANLSMon. Dec 15 8:30 am - 11:30 amWEH 750027357 AINTRO TO MATLS SELECTue. Dec 9 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmDH 111215462 ACOMPUTER GRAPHICSFri. Dec 12 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmMM A1427401 AMSE CAPSTONE CRS 1Tue. Dec 9 8:30 am - 11:30 amSH 22415492 ASP TPC IR NLP MTSPHTue. Dec 9 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmPH A18A27511 ABIOMATERIALS IITue. Dec 9 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmPH 125C15494 AWEB COMMRCE SEC PRIVTue. Dec 9 8:30 am - 11:30 amPH 125C27533 A2PRN GRWTH PROC SEMIFri. Dec 12 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmPH A18B15495 ASP TP CO MO BIOGENMMon. Dec 8 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmPH A18C27733 A2PRNC GRWTH PRO SEMIFri. Dec 12 1:00 pm -4:00 pmPH A18B15505 AANIMATION ART & TECHMon. Dec 15 8:30 am - 11:30 amCFA 30327766 A2DIFFSN IN MATERIALSMon. Dec 8 8:30 am - 11:30 amSH 21215681 AMACHINE LEARNINGThu. Dec 11 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmWEH 750027779 ASTRC & BND CRYST MATThu. Dec 11 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmDH A31715740 ACOMPUTER ARCHITECTRMon. Dec 15 8:30 am - 11:30 amWEH 842727780 ATHERMODYN AMICSMon. Dec 15 8:30 am - 11:30 amWEH 540315781 AMACHINE LEARNINGMon. Dec 8 8:30 am - 11:30 amWEH 750015821 A
 1
MOBLE COMP SYS & APP 
1
Thu. Dec 11 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmSH 125
\

---------------------------------------------------

Physics
1PHYSICS ENGR STUD 1Fri. Dec 12 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmUC McConomy
1PHYSICS ENGR STUD IIMon. Dec 8 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmUC McConomy
1PHYSICS SCI STUD 1Fri. Dec 12 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmDH 2315
1PHYSCS SCI STDNTS IIMon. Dec 8 8:30 am - 11:30 amDH 1212
1INTRO TO ASTRONOMYThu. Dec 11 8.-30 am - 11:30 amDH 2315
1MATTR & INTERACTNS 1Fri. Dec 12 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmDH 1112, 1212
APHYS III: MOD ESSENTMon. Dec 8 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmMM 103
1STRS GLXS & UNIVERSEThu. Dec 11 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmDH 1112
AQUANTM PHY STRUC MATThu. Dec 11 8:30 am - 11:30 amDH A301D
APHYSICAL ANALYSISTue. Dec 16 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmDH 1212
AINTR CMPTNL PHYSICSMon. Dec 15 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmWEH 6423
APHYSCL MECHANICS 1Tue. Dec 9 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmWEH 7316
AINTRM ELEC & MAG 1Mon. Dec 15 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmWEH 5403
ATHERMAL PHYSICS 1Thu. Dec 11 8:30 am - 11:30 amDH 1212
AINT ELEC & MAGNET IIFri. Dec 12 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmWEH 7316
AINTRO TO BIOPHYSICSMon. Dec 8 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmWEH 8427
AADV QUANTUM PHYSCS 1Fri. Dec 12 8:30 am - 11:30 amPH A18B
AINTERMEDIATE OPTICSTue. Dec 9 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmDH 1209
AASTROPHYSICSMon. Dec 8 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmWEH 8427
AQUANTUM MECHANICS 1Mon. Dec 15 8:30 am - 11:30 amWEH 7316
AINTRO MATH PHYSCS 1Mon. Dec 8 8:30 am - 11:30 amWEH 7316
AQUANTUM MECHANICS VThu. Dec 11 8:30 am - 11:30 amWEH 7316
Statistics
1STATS REASON PRACTCETue. Dec 9 8:30 am - 11:30 amUCMcConomy
1PROB & STAT BUS APPLMon. Dec 8 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmUCMcConomy
APROB THEO RNDM PROCFri. Dec 12 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmPH100, 125C
1ENGR STAT QUAL CTRLMon. Dec 15 8:30 am - 11:30 amBHA51
AINTRO PROB & STAT 1Fri. Dec 12 1:00 pm -4:00 pmDH2210
1EX DES BEHA SOC SCITue. Dec 9 8:30 am - 11:30 amPH100
1DATA MININGMon. Dec 8 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmBH235A
AMODERN REGRESSIONMon. Dec 15 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmBHA51
APROBLTY MATH STATS 1Fri. Dec 12 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmWEH 5403
AINTERMED STATISTICSThu. Dec 11 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmDH 2302
AREGRESSION ANALYSISMon. Dec 8 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmBH 235A
A2NONPAR AMETIC METHODSFri. Dec 12 8:30 am - 11:30 amPH 225B
1EXP DES BEH SOC SCIThu. Dec 11 8:30 am - 11:30 amBH A53
AADV PROBABLTY OVERVWMon. Dec 8 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmPH 226B
AADV DATA ANALYSIS 1Tue. Dec 16 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmBH 231B
Biomedical 
42101 A 
42201 A 
42301 A 
42377 A 
42501 A 
42511 A 
42621 A 
42735 A 
42777 A
Architecture
Engineering
INTRODUCTION BIOMED 
BIOMED ENGR SEMINAR 
PHYSIOLOGY 
REHABILITATION ENGNG 
SPECIAL TOPICS 
BIOMATERIALS II 
BIOTCHNLGY & ENV PRO 
PHYSIOLOGY 
REHABILITATION ENGR
Thu. Dec 11 5:30 pm - 8:30 pm PH A18B
Fri. Dec 12 1:00 pm - 4:00 pm WEH 7500
Tue. Dec 9 8:30 am - 11:30 am BH A51, A53
Thu. Dec 11 1:00 pm - 4:00 pm DH 2122
Thu. Dec 11 8:30 am - 11:30 am DH 2122
Tue. Dec 9 5:30 pm - 8:30 pm PH 125C
Mon. Dec 15 8:30 am - 11:30 am DH 1112
Fri. Dec 12 8:30 am-11:30 am BH 237B
M.on. Dec 8 1:00 pm - 4:00 pm DH 2122
48210ASTATICSMon. Dec 8 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmMM 103
48240AHIS SRVY WLD ARC URBTue. Dec 9 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmMM A14
48310ASTRUCTURES 2Mon. Dec 8 8:30 am - 11:30 amMM A14
48312ASITEFri. Dec 12 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmHH B103
48344AARC HENRY HORNBOSTELTue. Dec 16 8:30 am - 11:30 amPH 226A
48349AMEDIEVAL ARCHITECTREMon. Dec 15 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmMM A14
48761ASOFTWR REQMNT ENGRNGMon. Dec 8 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmCFA 102
Music
APRINCPL COUNTERPOINTTue. Dec 16 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmWEH 5403
BPRINCPL COUNTERPOINTTue. Dec 16 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmWEH 5403
AHARMONY 1Mon. Dec 8 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmCFAA2
BHARMONY 1Mon. Dec 8 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmMM127
CHARMONY 1Mon. Dec 8 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmCFAA2
DHARMONY 1Mon. Dec 8 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmCFAM160
ASURVEY WEST MUS HISTMon. Dec 15 8:30 am - 11:30 amCFAA2
BSURVEY WEST MUS HISTMon. Dec 15 8:30 am-11:30 amCFAM160
CSURVEY WEST MUS HISTMon. Dec 15 8:30 am - 11:30 amCFAM157
A18TH & 19TH C MUSICFri. Dec 12 8:30 am - 11:30 amCFAM160
AWORLD MUSICMon. Dec 15 8:30 am - 11:30 amMM127
APRNCPLS OF EDUCATIONMon. Dec 8 8:30 am - 11:30 amCFAM157
ABRASS METHODSThu. Dec 11 8:30 am - 11:30 amMM119
AMUSIC ELEM SCHOOLMon. Dec 15 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmCFAM157
AJAZZ EAR TRAININGTue. Dec 9 8:30 am - 11:30 amCFAA2
AJAZZ ORCHESTRATN IIFri. Dec 12 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmCFAA2
AJAZZ HISTORY 1Thu. Dec 11 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmCFAA2
ASC RDG KYBD HARMTue. Dec 16 8:30 am - 11:30 amMM127
AJAZZ ORCHESTRATN IIFri. Dec 12 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmCFAA2
AJAZZ HISTORYThu. Dec 11 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmCFAA2
AWORLD MUSICMon. Dec 15 8:30 am - 11:30 amMM127
JBERLIOZ & RMNTC CENTMon. Dec 8 8:30 am - 11:30 amMM127
APRNCPLS OF EDUCATIONMon. Dec 8 8:30 am - 11:30 amCFAM157
ABRASS METHODSThu. Dec 11 8:30 am - 11:30 amMM119
AMUSIC IN EL SCHOOLMon. Dec 15 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmCFAM157
Art
60205 A 
60389 A 
60414 A 
60427 A
MOD VIS CL 1789 - 1945 
SPTP HIST COLLABRTVS 
ADV ETB ANM ART/TECH 
ADV ETB: SPEC TOPIC
H&SS Interdisciplinary
66250 A INTRO TO RELIGION
67271 A FNDMTLS SYS DEVLP I
67272 A APPLCTN DESGN & DEV
67272 B APPLCTN DESGN & DEV
Business Administration 
70100 A INTRO TO BUSINESS
70122 1 INTRO TO ACCOUNTING
70122 2 INTRO TO ACCOUNTING
70160 A INTR GRA CMNCTNS I
70160 B INTR GRA CMNCTNS I
70207 1 PROB & STAT BUS APPL
70332 A BUS SOCIETY & ETHICS
70332 B BUS SOCIETY & ETHICS
70341 A ORG COMMUNICATION
70364 A BUSINESS LAW
70365 A I NT TRADE & I NT LAW
70371 1 PRODUCTION I
70371 2 PRODUCTION I
70381 1 MARKETING I
70381 2 MARKETING I
70391 1 FINANCE I
70391 2 FINANCE I
70392 A FINANCIAL ECONOMICS
70397 A VENTR CAPTL INVESTNG
70414 E TECH - BASED ENTRPSHP
70415 A ENTREPRENEURSHIP I
70417 A TPCS IN ENTREPRNRSHP
70440 A CORPORATE STRATEGY
70440 B CORPORATE STRATEGY
70451 1 MGMNT INFORMATN SYS
70451 2 MGMNT INFORMATN SYS
70456 A TELECOM & NTWRK MGMT
70460 A MATH MDLS FR CNSLTNG
70484 A DIR INTACTV MARKETNG
70485 A PRODUCT MANAGEMENT
70497 A OPTIONS
70520 A PUBLICITY & PUB REL
70637 A INTACT MED DES PROD
70643 A PBLSHNG ON THE WWW
70643 B PBLSHNG ON THE WWW
Mon. Dec 15 1:00 pm - 4:00 pm 
Thu. Dec 11 5:30 pm - 8:30 pm 
Mon. Dec 15 8:30 am - 11:30 am 
Mon. Dec 8 5:30 pm - 8:30 pm
Tue. Dec 9 5:30 pm - 8:30 pm 
Mon. Dec 8 8:30 am - 11:30 am 
Fri. Dec 12 1:00 pm - 4:00 pm 
Fri. Dec 12 1:00 pm - 4:00 pm
Tue. Dec 16 1:00 pm 
Tue. Dec 16 1:00 pm 
Tue. Dec 16 1:00 pm 
Tue. Dec 16 8:30 am - 
Tue. Dec 16 8:30 am - 
Mon. Dec 8 5:30 pm - 
Thu. Dec 11 1:00 pm 
Thu. Dec 11 1:00 pm 
Mon. Dec 15 8:30 am 
Mon. Dec 8 8:30 am 
Fri. Dec 12 8:30 am - 
Fri. Dec 12 5:30 pm - 
Fri. Dec 12 5:30 pm - 
Thu. Dec 11 8:30 am 
Thu. Dec 11 8:30 am 
Mon. Dec 8 8:30 am 
Mon. Dec 8 8:30 am 
Tue. Dec 9 1:00 pm - 
Mon. Dec 8 1:00 pm - 
Tue. Dec 16 8:30 am  
Tue. Dec 9 8:30 am - 
Mon. Dec 15 8:30 am 
Fri. Dec 12 5:30 pm - 
Fri. Dec 12 5:30 pm - 
Tue. Dec 16 1:00 pm - 
Tue. Dec 16 1:00 pm - 
Tue. Dec 16 1:00 pm 
Tue. Dec 9 8:30 am - 
Thu. Dec 11 8:30 am 
Mon. Dec 8 5:30 pm - 
Thu. Dec 11 1:00 pm 
Tue. Dec 9 5:30 pm - 
Tue. Dec 9 1:00 pm - 
Mon. Dec 8 1:00 pm - 
Mon. Dec 8 1:00 pm -
- 4:00 pm
- 4:00 pm
- 4:00 pm
- 11:30 am
- 11:30 am
- 8:30 pm
- 4:00 pm
- 4:00 pm
- 11:30 am
- 11:30 am 
11:30 am 
8:30 pm 
8:30 pm
- 11:30 am
- 11:30 am
- 11:30 am
- 11:30 am 
4:00 pm
- 4:00 pm
-11:30 am 
11:30 am
- 11:30 am 
8:30 pm 
8:30 pm
- 4:00 pm
- 4:00 pm
- 4:00 pm
- 11:30 am
- 11:30 am
- 8:30 pm
- 4:00 pm 
8:30 pm 
4:00 pm 
-4:00 pm
- 4:00 pm
Economics 
73100 1 
73100 2 
73200 A 
73200 B 
73200 C
PRINC OF ECONOMICS 
PRINC OF ECONOMICS 
MACROECONOMICS 
MACROECONOMICS 
MACROECONOMICS
Fri. Dec 12 8:30 am - 11:30 am 
Fri. Dec 12 8:30 am - 11:30 am 
Tue. Dec 9 5:30 pm - 8:30 pm 
Tue. Dec 9 5:30 pm - 8:30 pm 
Tue. Dec 9 5:30 pm - 8:30 pm
MM 103 
CFA 303 
MM A14 
DH 1117
PH A18B 
HH B103, 
HH B103 
HH B131
B131
HH B103, B131 
DH 2210, 2315 
DH 2210, 2315 
BH 136A 
BH 136A 
UC McConomy 
HH B103, B131 
HH B103, B131 
BH A53 
PH A18A 
DH 1112 
DH 2210, 2315 
DH 2210, 2315 
DH 2210 
DH 2210 
UC McConomy 
UC McConomy 
WEH 7500 
MM A14 
DH A317 
WEH 7500 
BH 255A 
PH 100 
PH 100 
PH 100, 125C 
PH 100, 125C 
DH 1112 
DH 1112 
DH 2105 
CFA 211 
MM A14 
OSC 200 
SH 324 
DH 1212 
DH 1212
DH 2210, 2315 
DH 2210, 2315 
UC McConomy 
UC McConomy 
UC McConomy
73248 A 
73250 A 
73250 B 
73260 A 
73325 A 
73340 A 
73359 A 
73392 A
English 
76230 A 
76236 A 
76239 1 
76260 A 
76265 B 
76330 A 
76342 A 
76354 A 
76365 A 
76372 A 
76437 A 
76462 A 
76481 A 
76487 A 
76487 B 
76772 A 
76781 A 
76789 A 
76837 A 
76887 A 
76887 B
History 
79104 1 
79104 2 
79165 A
79200 A
79201 A 
79204 A 
79230 A 
79243 A 
79249 A 
79257 A 
79270 A 
79280 A 
79312 A 
79319 A2 
79332 A 
79350 A 
79352 A 
79379 A 
79394 A 
79440 A
Philosophy
ENVIRONMENTAL ECONMC 
INTERMED MICROECON 
INTERMED MICROECON 
ECONOMETRICS I 
EXPER FNDTNS EQUIL 
LABOR ECONOMICS 
BENEFIT-COST ANALY 
FINANCIAL ECONOMICS
19TH CENT FICT BR& AM 
NATIVE AM LITERATUR 
INTRO FILM STUDIES 
SURVEY FORMS:FICTION 
SURVEY FORMS: POETRY 
MEDIEVAL LITERATURE 
IMAGES. IN AM CULT 
SPTP HIST COLLABRTVS 
BEGINING POETRY WKSP 
CONTMPRY JOURNALISM 
CNSTRUT LONG 18TH CN 
ADVNCD FICTN WRKSHP 
WRITING MULTIMEDIA 
ON - LINE INFO DESIGN 
ON - LINE INFO DESIGN 
CONTEMPRYJOURNALSM 
WRTG FOR MULTIMEDIA 
GR AMMAR STANDARD ENG 
CNSTRUT LONG 18TH CN 
ON - LINE INFO DESIGN 
ON - LINE INFO DESIGN
INTRO WORLD HISTORY 
INTRO WORLD HISTORY 
HIS FR SM:DTCTV STRY 
HIS EVIDNCE & INTERP 
INTRO TO ANTHRO 
20TH CENTURY AMERICA 
TECHNLGY AMER SOCTY 
HIS AMRCN URBAN LIFE 
AM CLT DIME NVL EBK 
HSTRY AM WKRG CLASS 
CHINESE CULTRE SOCTY 
RUS HIS FRST LST TSR 
MEDICAL ANTHROPOLOGY 
AFTER HIROSHIMA 
JUV DELINQ IMAGES 
THEORIES INTL RELTNS 
AR ISR COND WR & PCE 
WOMEN AMERICAN HISTY 
ORG CRM & ETH CNCTN 
RIS INDTRL RES & DEV
Mon. Dec 15 1:00 pm - 4:00 pm 
Fri. Dec 12 8:30 am - 11:30 am 
Fri. Dec 12 8:30 am - 11:30 am 
Tue. Dec 9 1:00 pm - 4:00 pm 
Mon. Dec 8 1:00 pm - 4:00 pm 
Tue. Dec 9 8:30 am - 11:30 am 
Fri. Dec 12 8:30 am - 11:30 am 
Tue. Dec 9 1:00 pm - 4:00 pm
Mon. Dec 15 5:30 pm 
Mon. Dec 15 1:00 pm 
Tue. Dec 9 5:30 pm - 
Tue. Dec 16 8:30 am - 
Fri. Dec 12 1:00 pm - 
Mon. Dec 15 8:30 am 
Tue. Dec 9 1:00 pm - 
Thu. Dec 11 5:30 pm 
Fri. Dec 12 8:30 am - 
Mon. Dec 8 5:30 pm - 
Mon. Dec 8 5:30 pm - 
Thu. Dec 11 8:30 am 
Mon. Dec 8 1:00 pm - 
Mon. Dec 15 5:30 pm 
Mon. Dec 15 5:30 pm 
Mon. Dec 8 5:30 pm - 
Mon. Dec 8 1:00 pm - 
Mon. Dec 15 8:30 am 
Mon. Dec 8 5:30 pm - 
Mon. Dec 15 5:30 pm 
Mon. Dec 15 5:30 pm
- 8:30 pm
- 4:00 pm 
8:30 pm
- 11:30 am 
4:00 pm
- 11:30 am 
4:00 pm
- 8:30 pm 
11:30 am
 8:30 pm
 8:30 pm
- 11:30 am
 4:00 pm
- 8:30 pm
- 8:30 pm
 8:30 pm
 4:00 pm
- 11:30 am
 8:30 pm
- 8:30 pm
- 8:30 pm
Mon. Dec 15 8:30 am 
Mon. Dec 15 8:30 am 
Tue. Dec 9 8:30 am - 
Mon. Dec 15 1:00 pm 
Mon. Dec 15 8:30 am 
Thu. Dec 11 1:00 pm 
Fri. Dec 12 8:30 am - 
Fri. Dec 12 1:00 pm - 
Thu. Dec 11 1:00 pm 
Tue. Dec 9 5:30 pm - 
Mon. Dec 15 5:30 pm 
Mon. Dec 8 5:30 pm - 
Mon. Dec 8 8:30 am 
Fri. Dec 12 8:30 am - 
Mon. Dec 8 8:30 am 
Thu. Dec 11 1:00 pm 
Thu. Dec 11 5:30 pm 
Tue. Dec 9 1:00 pm - 
Fri. Dec 12 5:30 pm - 
Thu. Dec 11 5:30 pm
- 11:30 am
- 11:30 am 
11:30 am
- 4:00 pm
- 11:30 am
- 4:00 pm 
11:30 am 
4:00 pm
- 4:00 pm 
8:30 pm
- 8:30 pm
- 8:30 pm
- 11:30 am 
11:30 am
- 11:30 am
- 4:00 pm
- 8:30 pm 
4:00 pm 
8:30 pm
- 8:30 pm
Modern Languages 
82101
82171 
82171 D 
82171 
82171
82271
82421 
82441 A
Psychology
Social and Decision Sciences
88341
BH 136A 
UC McConomy 
UC McConomy 
BH A51 
BH 255A 
SH 125 
SH 125 
WEH 7500
PH A18C 
PH A18C 
HH B103 
PH A18A 
PH A18C 
PH A18A 
PH 226B 
CFA 303 
BH 255A 
BH CLUSTER 
BH 231A 
PH A19C 
PH 225B 
PH A18A 
PH A18A 
BH CLUSTER 
PH 225B 
PH A18C 
BH 231A 
PH A18A 
PH A18A
DH 2210, 2315 
UC McConomy 
PH A18B 
BH A53 
BH 136A 
PH A18B 
HH B131 
MM 103 
PH A18C 
DH A317 
DH 1112 
MM A14 
PH 125C 
WEH 5403 
BH 235B 
WEH 5403 
BH A53 
BH 235B 
BH 235A 
PH A18A
AFR SM ORGNS OF JUSTCMon. Dec 8 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmWEH 6423
ASOC STR PB POL ET DLMon. Dec 8 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmWEH 7500
ANATURE OF LANGUAGEMon. Dec 8 8:30 am - 11:30 amMM 103
ALANGUAGE & THOUGHTThu. Dec 11 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmSH 422
AINTRODUCTN TO LOGICMon. Dec 8 8:30 am - 11:30 amPH A18B
APHILOS OF SCIENCEFri. Dec 12 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmPH A18B
APHILOS OF RELIGIONMon. Dec 15 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmDH 1212
AMINDS MACH KNOWLEDGTue. Dec 9 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmSH 220
ARATIONAL CHOICEFri. Dec 12 8:30 am - 11:30 amDH A317
APROBABILITY &AIThu. Dec 11 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmPH 125C
ASEM PHIL POLTC ECONTue. Dec 16 8:30 am - 11:30 amWEH 5403
AMINDS MACH KNOWLEDGTue. Dec 9 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmSH 220
ARATIONAL CHOICEFri. Dec 12 8:30 am - 11:30 amDH A317
APROBABILITY &AIThu. Dec 11 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmPH 125C
ASEM: PHIL POLTC ECONTue. Dec 16 8:30 am - 11:30 amWEH 5403
ASEMINAR ON CAUSATIONThu. Dec 11 8:30 am - 11:30 amDH 1117
ASEM SOCIAL & POL PHIMon. Dec 8 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmPH 125B
CELEMENTARY FRENCH 1Mon. Dec 15 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmPHA19
AELEM FRENCH 1 ONLINEMon. Dec 15 8:30 am - 11:30 amPH225C
AELEMENTARY GERMAN 1Mon. Dec 8 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmBH136A
BELEMENTARY GERMAN 1Mon. Dec 8 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmBH136 A
AELEMENTARY GERMAN IIMon. Dec 8 8:30 am - 11:30 amBH237B
AELEMENTARY SPANISH 1Tue. Dec 9 8:30 am - 11:30 amBH136A
BELEMENTARY SPANISH 1Tue. Dec 9 8:30 am - 11:30 amBH136A
AELEM SPANISH IIMon. Dec 8 8:30 am - 11:30 amSH206
BELEM SPANISH IIMon. Dec 8 8:30 am - 11:30 amSH206
AELEM SPANSH 1 ONLINEMon. Dec 15 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmPH225C
BELEMENTARY ITALIAN 1Mon. Dec 8 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmPH125C
AELEM JAPANESE 1Mon. Dec 8 8:30 am - 11:30 amDH2210
BELEM JAPANESE 1Mon. Dec 8 8:30 am - 11:30 amDH2210
CELEM JAPANESE 1Mon. Dec 8 8:30 am - 11:30 amDH2210
DELEM JAPANESE 1Mon. Dec 8 8:30 am - 11:30 amDH2210
EELEM JAPANESE 1Mon. Dec 8 8:30 am - 11:30 amDH2210
FELEM JAPANESE 1Mon. Dec 8 8:30 am - 11:30 amDH2210
AINTERMED FRENCH 1Mon. Dec 8 8:30 am - 11:30 amBH255A
AINTER FRENCH 1 ONLNEThu. Dec 11 8:30 am - 11:30 amPH225C
AINTERMED SPANISH 1Mon. Dec 8 8:30 am - 11:30 amBH136A
BINTERMED SPANISH 1Mon. Dec 8 8:30 am - 11:30 amBH136A
AINTRMD SPNISH 1 ONLNMon. Dec 8 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmPH225C
AINTERMED JAPANESE 1Mon. Dec 15 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmBH136A
BINTERMED JAPANESE 1Mon. Dec 15 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmBH136A
CINTERMED JAPANESE 1Mon. Dec 15 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmBH136A
AFRANCOPHONE WORLDTue. Dec 9 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmPHA19C
AFRENCH SOC CONTEXTSMon. Dec 15 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmPH226B
AINTRO GERMAN STUDIESTue. Dec 16 8:30 am - 11:30 amPHA18C
AGER LIT 19TH CENTURYMon. Dec 8 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmBH255A
ASTUD PENIN LIT CULTMon. Dec 8 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmBH237B
1INTRO TO INTELLIGNCEThu. Dec 11 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmDH 2210, 2315,
APSY FR SM MIND BRAINFri. Dec 12 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmBH 235A
1COGNTV PSYCHOLOGYFri. Dec 12 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmDH 1212, 1112
DCOGNTV PSYCHOLOGYMon. Dec 8 8:30 am - 11:30 amBH A51, A53
AHMN INF PRO ART INTLFri. Dec 12 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmMM A14
ABIOL FOUN OF BEHAVTue. Dec 16 8:30 am - 11:30 amWEH 7500
APRINC CHILD DVL PMNTTue. Dec 16 8:30 am - 11:30 amUC McConomy
BSOCIAL PSYCHOLOGYFri. Dec 12 8:30 am - 11:30 amBH A51
AABNORMAL PSYCHOLOGYTue. Dec 9 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmDH 2315
ARSCH MTHD COG PSYFri. Dec 12 8:30 am - 11:30 amPH A18C
BRSCH MTHDS SOC PSYThu. Dec 11 8:30 am - 11:30 amBH 235A
AORGNZTNL COMMUNCATNMon. Dec 15 8:30 am - 11:30 amBH A53
ACROSS CULTURL PSYMon. Dec 8 8:30 am - 11:30 amPH A18C
ACOGNITIVE DEVEL PMNTFri. Dec 12 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmBH 235B
APRACTM CHLD DEVL PMNTFri. Dec 12 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmMM 17D
AHMN INF PRO ART INTLFri. Dec 12 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmMM A14
ACOGNITIVE DEVEL PMNTFri. Dec 12 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmBH 235B
ACROSS CULTURL PSYMon. Dec 8 8:30 am - 11:30 amPH A18C
4
ADEC PROC AMER POL INMon. Dec 15 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmDH 2315, 2302
AREGRSSN MTHD SOC SCITue. Dec 9 8:30 am - 11:30 amHH B103, B131
AORGANIZATIONSTue. Dec 9 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmBH A51, A53
ABEHAV DECSN MAKINGFri. Dec 12 8:30 am - 11:30 amHH B103
APHIL POLITICS & ECONTue. Dec 16 8:30 am - 11:30 amWEH 5403
ASEM SOC & POL PHILOSMon. Dec 8 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmPH 125B
ATHEORIES INTL RELTNSThu. Dec 11 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmWEH 5403
AAM FOR PLCY:1945 - PRThu. Dec 11 8:30 am - 11:30 amBH136A
AORGNZTNL COMMUNICTNMon. Dec 15 8:30 am - 11:30 amBHA 53
AECON OF TECH CHANGEMon. Dec 8 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmPH226A
ARISE INDUS RSCH DEVThu. Dec 11 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmPHA18A
ARATIONAL CHOICEFri. Dec 12 8:30 am - 11:30 amDHA317
AGOVT RESP MRKT FAILRTue. Dec 16 8:30 am - 11:30 amPH125B
AINTERNATIONAL ECONMon. Dec 15 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmPHA19C
AMANAGIAL DEC MAKINGFri. Dec 12 1:00 pm -4:00 pmBH235B
AECON OF TECH CHANGEMon. Dec 8 1:00 pm - 4:00 pmPH226A
ARISE IND RES DEVThu. Dec 11 5:30 pm - 8:30 pmPH

A18A

---------------------------------------------------

American Heart i| 
Association*^^
Fighting Heart Disease 
and Stroke
mayoutlast
Checking your tire pressure is a 
good idea. Checking your blood 
pressure is an even better one. 
High blood pressure greatly 
increases your risk of heart attack 
and stroke. And those are harder 
to deal with than a flat tine.
To learn more, contact your 
nearest American Heart 
Association at 1-80QAHA-USA1 
or online at 
http://www.amhrt.org
Hew* toDouble Your Employment Opportunities info kitit
Study Abroad to Double YourEmployment Opportunities
To get a FREE info kit 
e-mail us: Free//o@Abroad/Russia.com
or call us Toll Free: 1-866-889-9880
WRITE FOR
THE TARTAN )|p!
I I
ALL THE PLAID YO
IF YOU FIND A FRESHER SANDWICH
ANYWHERE IN THE WORLD...
STAY THERE
TASTING IS BELIEVING
1^
GonnLD S GRER^r?estf&MET SNDV?C
3444 FORBES AVE. 681.9010JIMMYJOHNS
PITTSBURGHEta
 2 0 6 3 JIMMY JOHN'S FRANCHISE, INC.
Ed
" y ResidenceInn 
ROOM TO RELAX, ROOM TO WORK, ROOM TO BREATHE.
RESIDENCE INN BY MARRIOTT
PITTSBURGH / OAKLAND
All of our suites provide the comforts of home with Marriott's passion for making every guest feel welcome.
174 Spacious Suites (with full kitchens) 24-Hour Message Center / Voice Mail
Three Meeting Rooms (over 2,000 sq. it.)  Indoor Pool and Whirlpool
Hot Breakfast Daily (including scrambled eggs and Belgian waffles) Fitness Center
Evening Social Hour (Mon.-Thurs.) Cable TV with Premium Channels
Daily Newspaper Pets Accepted
Shuttle Van Service (within 3-mile radius) Laundry Facilities on Each Floor
Secure Indoor Garage High Speed internet
ASK ABOUT OUR CMU RATES!
3896 Bigelow Boulevard  Oakland  Pittsburgh, PA 15213  (412) 621-2200 * www.residenceinn.com/pitro
Get off it. Exercise.
American Heart Association
1995. American Heart Association
44
lheE&
Schatz AYCTEWhat does this mean?
Schatz AYCTE means that we are inviting you to join us at Schatz 
EVERY Monday and Thursday, from 5:00 P.M. to 7:00 P.M. 
for an "All You Care To Eat dinner.
Schatz is located in the University Center, where there is a real sense 
of community dining. We offer a wide variety of taste-tempting items 
including: entrees, hot sandwiches, a salad bar, a bread bar, soup, chili and 
delectable desserts everyday. We also prepare fresh and 
delicious vegetarian and vegan items daily.
The cost of the AYCTE program is $7.50 which is equivalent to one block meal. 
DineXtra, CampusXpress, Mastercard, VISA, and cash are also accepted.
So come and join your fellow students, faculty and staff as you 
dine on some of the best cooking on campus.
For more dining details, check our our Web site at:
www.cmu.edu/dining
AYCTE?M m m m mmm 0
We also welcome any comments or questions at:
dining@andrew.cmu.edu4^C7&>

---------------------------------------------------

the wool that she pulled over the publicsSee MARTHA, page AIO
Marina Kliger/Asst. Art Editor,
Students at this University are privileged; 
they own a little patch of green in the middle 
of a once industrial city, a haven of seclusion, 
kept immaculate by a legion of hard-working 
people. It is fitting that the institution does its 
bit to not contribute pollution to a world 
already overwrought.
The latest example in a line of consistent 
environmental and conservationist pursuits is 
New House, which achieved a silver rating in 
the Leadership in Energy and Environmental 
Design Green Building Rating System, devel
oped by the U.S. Green Building Council. The 
facets that make this building gleam include 
water-efficient landscaping and recycled con
tent. The building also caters to the needs of its 
inhabitants with excellent air circulation, stor
age racks for bikes, and easy access to public 
transportation.
In 2002, Carnegie Mellon was the thirdlargest purchaser of wind-generated electrici
ty in the country, paying roughly $80,000 
yearly for five percent of its total energy needs. 
The purchase earned the University a Green
Power Leadership Award from the 
Environmental Protection Agency. In the 
University strategic plan, released in 2001, 
environmental research and education ranked 
in its top four goals, and clearly CMU was not 
just mincing words. Other commitments to a 
greener earth from the University include the 
clear plastic containers that often house take 
away foods from campus eateries. These con
tainers replaced more environmentally toxic 
Styrofoam containers.
Every blue recycling bin on campus attests 
to Carnegie Mellons desire to leave the earth 
as pristine as possible. If these bins are not 
enough, then look no further than the green 
room facing the Cut, an underused recycling 
hub designed by alumni to celebrate Earth Day 
in 2002.
If each student takes away from the 
University some sense of this commitment to 
sustaining our world and nothing else, then 
Carnegie Mellon will have done right by 
Mother Earth. Now if CMU can only do some
thing about the citys air quality.
Monthly allowance for special 
interest groups borders on absurd
From September 15 to October 15, the coun
try celebrates National Hispanic-Latino 
Heritage Month. October is National Disability 
Employment Awareness Month. November is 
(you guessed it!) American Indian and Alaska 
Native Heritage Month. Every year more and 
more minority groups secure an entire month 
to celebrate how they are different from every
one else. What started as a bit of healthy cul
tural pride has been blown way out of propor
tion by the polarizing tactics of opportunistic, 
selfish activists. Besides designating a month, 
every year the President of the United States is 
expected to re-proclaim the month and a new 
; theme. This year the theme for National 
; Hispanic-Latino Heritage Month is Hispanic 
Americans: Honoring Our Past, Surpassing 
Our Present, and Leading Our Future. All the 
hoopla raises a lot of questions. Why do some 
groups get their own month and not others? 
What in the world does that theme for 
National Hispanic-Latino Heritage Month 
mean? And, do we need to add more months 
to the calendar?
Some recent designations have been politi
cally motivated, and continue to be embroiled 
in politics. National Gay and Lesbian Pride 
Month was first proclaimed by President 
Clinton in 1999. However, the current Bush 
Administration has taken the opportunity to 
win brownie points with its conservative base 
by failing to issue annual declarations, much 
to the chagrin of national gay rights groups.
At first glance, it appears that only groups
that people feel sorry for are worthy of getting 
their own month. Most minority groups have a 
month, women have one, and even disabled 
Americans get their National. Disability 
Employment Awareness Month. This theory of 
the downtrodden might be true, but only for 
the permanent months. The President can 
declare a special month whenever he wants. 
Clinton declared March of 2000 to be both 
Irish Heritage Month and National Red Cross 
Month. The Red Cross is not even a demo
graphic group, and neither are the Irish, 
according to the U.S. Census. Perhaps that is 
why they had to share their month with 
National Womens History Month. Hopefully 
the women did not get too upset, since it does 
not make sense to celebrate Irish Heritage 
Month in any month that St. Patricks Day does 
not fall in. Besides, the women get their own 
special National Womens Equality Day on 
August 26.
There is obviously no rhyme or reason to 
allocating special months, days, or weeks. 
Some months are unclaimed (hurry, there are 
only five left!), and other months have two or 
three competitors. This mess is the result of 
rabid political correctness and shameless com
petition and self-promotion by interest groups. 
Such posturing runs contrary to American 
unity. No demographic group needs to claim 
an entire month and institutionalize the cele
bration of their heritage, while at the same 
time stifling other groups. Instead, Americans 
should appreciate diversity every day.
Morris better than ever, but will be 
missed when he steps down in 2004
 Exiting on the winds of change and with the 
sweet taste of success on his lips, School of 
Computer Science Dean James Morris will 
step down at the end of the school year. He 
will return to the research and teaching roles 
that have served him so well, so do not be sur
prised if you see him teaching your 15-211 
class next semester.
Morris distinguished career includes time 
as a professor of computer science since 1982, 
a member of the Alto project team at Xeroxs 
Palo Alto Research Center in California in 1974 
for ten years, and the first director of the 
Information Technology Center (ITC) from 
1983 to 1988. Collaborating with IBM, the ITC 
was directly responsible for the creation of the 
now-ubiquitous Andrew File System. Love it or 
hate it, the system has revolutionized the way 
students take many of their courses. His lead
ership roles include the drive for establishing 
the West Coast campus as well as the founding 
of the Human-Computer Interaction Institute. 
The fledging West Coast campus is moving to a 
larger, more accommodating location and will 
give students more geographic options after 
their undergraduate graduation. Initiatives
like this are an example of how Morris leader
ship has subtly but directly influenced life in 
CMUs classrooms.
His five-year term as dean included taking 
the SCS to first in the nation as a computer sci
ence school and bringing the schools budget 
to over $100 million in research and funding. 
Although the school likes to flaunt the fact 
that 30 percent of students in SCS are now 
female, the school does have a 98 percent firstyear retention rate. And although the SCSs 
reputation of having less than sociable stu
dents still persists, it is not the monastery of 
geekdom it was a short decade ago.
Be sure to check out the Robot Hall of Fame, 
Morris latest project, which is a collaboration 
between the University and the Carnegie 
Science Center. He will preside over the induc
tion event on November 10 as master of cere
monies. The event comes as Red Whittaker 
of the Robotics Institute builds a robot that can 
traverse nearly any terrain on the face of the 
earth, an achievement that is not thought to be 
possible for another 50 years. Congratulations 
Dean Morris and best' of luck in your future 
endeavors.THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellons Student Newspaper Since igo6
EDITORIAL BOARD 
ANDREW JOHNSON 
Editor-in-Chief
DANIEL GOLDMAN, Managing Editor 
ALEX MESEGUER, News Editor 
JEFF CULLERS, Photo Editor
L. QUINN ARROYO, Personnel Co-Manager 
JASON SUROVY, Personnel Co-Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF
CELANIE POLANICK, Pillbox Editor 
KAREN HOFFMANN, Sei. & Tech. Editor 
NEAL SHYAM, Comics Editor 
BUM LEE, Art Editor 
CHRISTOPHER CHAN, Online Editor 
DARREN LI, Systems Manager 
NICK ENNIS, Business Manager*
CATHY OH, Advertising Manager 
JIM PULS, Production Manager 
j JAMES AUWAERTER, Copy Manager 
RYA BARAZ, Darkroom Manager
* Denotes acting position
MARINA KLIGER, Asst. Art Editor 
MARIE YETSIN, Asst. Forum Editor 
REKHA NAIR, Asst. Advertising Manager 
JANE PARK, Asst. Advertising Manager 
MEG RICHARDS, Asst. Production Manager
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS 
John Davin, Cheryl Tomblin, 
Julie Watt
Bum Lee/Art Editor
Letters to the Edi
Equal opportunity 
killers in the Mid East
This is a response to the column of Ben 
Hackett in the September 15 issue of The 
Tartan. Yasser Arafat deserves to be con
demned to the extent that he has encour
aged and supported suicide bombers, but 
there is no evidence that he is directly 
responsible for any bombing.
It is important to note that the number of

- ____- -
Israeli victims is less than the number of 
Palestinian civilians, including many chil
dren, who have been killed and wounded by 
the Israelis. Nearly every time there is an 
attack on a supposed terrorist, many 
Palestinian civilians are killed or wounded.
In these cases it is clear that Ariel Sharon 
is directly responsible for these murders. In 
addition, thousands of Palestinian civilians 
have become homeless because the Israeli 
army has deliberately, destroyed their 
homes.
Much of their farmland has been seized 
or destroyed to make room for or to protect 
illegal settlements. This oppression could be< 
considered a crime against humanity.
Those who condemn Arafat and do not; 
condemn Sharon are either totally ignorant; 
of what is happening or they are racists who 
believe that Palestinians need not be treated 
as fellow human beings.
Lincoln Wolfenstein 
University Professor
Charges against Martha Stewart half-baked
L. Quinn Arroyo
Shes baked wedding cakes, birthday 
cakes, and scented geranium pound cakes, 
but the next time Martha Stewart steps into 
a kitchen, she might want to bake a cake 
with a file inside.
For over a year, the domestic icon has 
been at the helm of a massive insider trading 
fiasco, and now her messy coverup might 
land her in prison. Her court date is sched
uled for November, and as autumn leaves 
fall, so does Stewarts reputation; but why is
squeaky-clean Westport socialite? Its not 
because shes bad  its because shes 
Martha Stewart.
In June, Sam Waksal, the founder and for
mer CEO of ImClone Systems, was slapped 
with 87 months in prison and $4.3 million in 
fines after being convicted of insider trad
ing, obstruction of justice, perjury, and tax 
evasion. Waksal, a longtime friend and ex
boyfriend of Stewart, purportedly tipped off 
the happy homemaker, urging her to dump 
her ImClone stock just before the company 
went public with the bad news that Erbitux, 
its much-hyped cancer drug, was rejected by 
the FDA. Stewart complied, but her greatest 
crime was not her premature sale of 4000 
soon-to-be-sinking shares of ImClone. It was
eyes.
Stewarts initial response to the allega
tions was complete and hostile denial. Soon 
after news of the scandal broke, she 
appeared on CBSs Early Show, dodging 
questions about ImClone as she noisily 
hacked away at a head of cabbage.
I think this will all be resolved in the very 
near future and I will be exonerated of any 
ridiculousness, she said to host Jane 
Clayson. Now Id really like to focus on my 
salad.
This comically misfired kitchen advice 
was prime fodder for late-night TV talkshow jokes; finally the public had some real 
dirt on this previously perfect woman. The
Private eyes, they see your every move
Cameras in classrooms 
teach students to 
blindly follow authority
Bradley Grantz
To enter one of Americas most secure 
institutions, a visitor must pass through 
metal detectors and register with the armed 
security guard at the front desk. Thats if he 
can even get in the front door. Entry is con
trolled remotely by a disinterested voice that 
asks guests the nature of their visit, while 
tracking the visitors approach to the build
ing on closed-circuit television. The govern
ment can spare no expense to protect whats
inside: Americas national treasure  her 
children.
Since the Columbine high school shooting 
in April 1999, school districts beyond the 
inner city have spent millions of dollars on 
security to create a safe environment for 
learning. Now districts are finding that a 
homicidal rampage by angst-ridden teens 
isnt the only classroom crime that must be 
thwarted. Better digital technology now 
allows administrators to use video cameras 
in classrooms, libraries, cafeterias, and hall
ways in the often-overlooked war between 
teacher and class clown. It all sounds like a 
promo for a new MTV reality show, Big 
Brother in the Big Hduse.
In Biloxi, Mississippi, 500 classrooms 
from the kindergarten playpen to the chem
istry laboratory now have video cameras. 
According to a New York Times story last 
week, three-quarters of the 950 new schools 
built in 2002 came equipped with surveil
lance systems.
To be fair, Biloxi administrators argue 
that the unblinking eye of justice has 
improved discipline and thus raised test
scores. In addition to being used as a deter-1 
rent, the cameras have also been used to set-* 
tie petty disputes between students, like! 
this:
Sally: Teacher, Johnny was looking at my' 
underwear!
Teacher: Johnny, go to the principals/ 
office. Youre getting detention.
Johnny: I didnt do it and Im challenging} 
the penalty. Lets go to the replay!
(After the review):
Principal: Johnny did not spy Sallys; 
underpants. Sally will sit out of recess and; 
be charged with timeout.
These new weapons in the War on. 
Spitballs do have collateral damage.! 
Children spend the majority of their forma-; 
tive years in school, where attitudes and* 
beliefs are shaped even more sharply thanat home. Lessons about freedom and princi-, 
pled behavior arent read in a textbook; they!: 
are learned and adopted from society.; 
Cameras instruct children to shape their > 
behavior because they are being watched.!
See CAMERAS, page A10
Forum
29 September 2003 THE TARTAN Page A9
University to be commended for its 
commitment to the environment

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  SEPTEMBER 29, 2003
Walter White
Sophomore
Mechanical Engineering
I think its a bad way to keep cus
tomers. I dont personally care because 
I dont plan on getting caught.
Megan Flocken
Senior
Ethics, History, & Public Policy and 
English
Fuck copyright infringement.
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellons Student Newspaper Since 1Q06 
SENIOR STAFF 
Albert Cohen, Michael Croland
STAFFWRITERSIAdam Atkinson, Tim Bowen, Kevin 
Chang, Nicholas Chizzonite, Jeannie 
Choi, Shilpa Desai, Joe Elliott, Adam 
Greenberg, Israel Guzman, Ben Hackett, 
Colin Holloway, Laura Palotie, Matt 
Rado, Brenda Reyes, Anubhav Nikhil 
Sinha, Caleb Stright, Preston Treichel, 
Dinah Winnick, Hannah Yi
ART
Kohta Asakura, Jeremy Canceko, 
Jennifer Keinard, John Kim, Bridget 
Lewis, Grace Li, Elizabeth Levin, Julie
Qiu, Vanessa Shyu 
COMICS
Amy Bickerton, Franz Harter, Aaron 
Kablack, Nick Marino, Scott Niekum, Eli 
Pousson, Gregory Prichard, Bob Rost, 
Ed Ryan, Joe Sellers, Geoffrey 
Washburn, Daniel Vogel
PHOTO
Anthony DAuria, Wenyao Ho, 
Veronique Lee, Orathai Sukwong, David 
Rush, Mark Rau, Shafeeq 
Sinnamonideen
COPY
Michelle Bova, Catherine Fan, Helen 
Gruner, Adina Klein, Arthur ODwyer, 
Annalisa Schaefer
AD STAFF 
Sureena Bhansali, Patricia Chon, 
Julian Chun, Prantik Kundu, Jennifer 
Lin, Aditi Raturi, Heidi Woo, Mike 
Yang, Ranie You
JUNIOR STAFF 
Jennifer Anttonen, Sid Butalia, Chris 
Casinghino, Dan Ceppos, Namtarn 
Chaipan, Erin Danehy, Ryan Faught, \ 
Steven Goldberg, James Hart, Kirk J 
Higgins, Eugene Hsia, Teh Seng Keat, \ 
Andy Lee, Molly McAshan, Will Minton,! 
Stephanie Natale, Rachel Papernick, !
Janet Park, Susan Peich, Jairan 
Sadeghi, Lauren Sauer, Kathy Saye, 
Christina Shin, Shafeeq Sinnamonideen, 
Evan Sundwick, James Tetlow, Cecilia 
Westbrook, Lucas Yiannatji
The Tartan is the student newspaper of Carnegie 
Mellon University. The first issue is free. 
Additional copies can be purchased for $0.25 
each. It is a weekly newspaper published by stu
dents during the fall and spring semesters. It is 
printed by Western Pennsylvania Printing, Inc. 
Subscriptions are available for the semester or 
academic year. The editorials appearing at the 
beginning of the opinion section are the official 
opinion of The Tartan editorial board. Columns 
and political cartoons are the opinions of indi
vidual creators. The Tartan reserves the right to .. 
reject or condense any column or political car- ; 
toon. Letters to the Editor are opinions of 
authors who are usually, but not necessarily, 
members of the University community. A letter ' 
intended for publication must be signed and 
include the writer's address and phone number 
for verification. Names may be withheld upon 
request. The Tartan requests that letters be no 
longer than 350 words. The Tartan reserves the 
right to condense or reject any letter. Letters to 
the Editor must be submitted by 5 pm the 
Thursday before publication. Copyright  2002 
by The Tartan. The Tartan editorial board 
reserves the right to withhold from publication 
any copy it deems unfit for publication. Office: 
University Center Room 314. Phone: (412) 268- 
2111. Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 1017/ 
Carnegie Mellon University/
Pittsburgh, PA 15289.
Email:11H Bassi RgBcoLi 
OHHpree
1-PP98F-TNCtartan@andrew.cmu.edu collegiateTTTHEARRAll rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN#:0890-3107.
The Tartan is a member of the Associated 
Collegiate Press.s OPINION
Compiled by Alex Meseguer 
Photos by John Davin
Daniel Chung
Sophomore
ECE
I think theyre doing the wrong 
thing because its impossible to stop 
file-sharing.
Matt Reid
Junior
ECE
I feel bad buying a CD now. I want 
to support the artists, but I dont want 
to support them [the RIAA].
Meredith Clark
Sophomore
European Studies & International 
Relations
I think its^ ridiculous theyre suing 
college kids. Theyre getting plenty of 
money as it is.
I want my An illustrated opinion by Joe Sellersquarterback
Senate wastes
: money on party 
while orgs feel 
: budget crunch
Big Brothers watching out for you
Wondering who paid for those ridicu
lous, enormous blow-up floats on the CFA 
lawn for the Quarter Mile of Quarters 
fundraising event? You did. Senate 
approved a $2,400 misappropriation of 
your student activities fee for a couple of 
hours of bouncety-bounce in the sun. In 
the grand scheme of things, $2,400 is not 
all that much money, unless you think 
about all the budgets that got hacked by 
the Joint Funding Committee last semester. 
Now, many of those organizations are suf
fering. If you still think those floats were a 
good expenditure, understand that the 
Quarter Mile of Quarters only raises about 
$4000 for Childrens Hospital Free Care 
| Fund. Even those self-important do-nothj ings in Senate ought to be able to see that 
; the math is a little off, yet they passed the 
i allocation with only one dissenter.
While Senate cannot actually give 
money to charity, they can use the activi
ties fee to celebrate philanthropy. 
r After I found out how much those abom
inations cost, I called student body presi
dent Dan Gilman to get his views on the 
matter. He said that the event is well, attended and a good way to get students 
outside in the nice weather. Senate Chair 
Vito Fiore agreed. So when you look at the 
whole idea not stacked against the charity 
.event, then it seems a little less outra
geous. Its just another fun time.
But still, I cant get past such a chunk of 
spending in fiscally tight times, when 
..Gilman this semester has appointed a comymittee to look into raising the student 
activities fee by some significant amount 
because there isnt enough money to go 
.around in the first place.
I for one would much rather have given 
the baseball team every nickel of that 
money, or even tossed it to the Activities 
Board for another movie or lecture or
 something worthwhile.
Is bouncety-bounce really what gets us 
CMU students outside? I think wed come 
; put for a barbeque at half the price. Even 
some crappy rock or hip-hop act outdoors 
I would make me happier than a $2400 pat 
on the back for a $4000 effort.
*  Its this same kind of gross extravagance 
that had city dwellers outside the newly
! renovated David L. Lawrence Convention 
; Center as rich fat cats within wined and 
; dined the night away. Let them eat cake, 
cried the protestors. This schools student 
^ activities, like the city, are in a budget 
'crunch and this is certainly no time to let 
^precedent, much less bad precedent, rule 
;the day. They pay for these things every 
*year.
! CMU is largely unique in its status as a 
^university whose student activity money is 
; controlled completely by the students. But 
>learly we have the wrong people in there 
making the decisions when two grand gets 
'.wasted faster than a frat boy on a drinking 
gender.
Andrew Johnson {johnson3@) is the 
Editor-in-chief of The Tartan. He thinks its 
;worth mentioning that James Auwaerter, 
pur copy manager, was the only Senator to 
side against the motion, and thus the only 
good apple in the whole rotten bunch.
Schoolyard, bully:
CAMERAS, .from page A9
Johnny doesnt harass Sally because it is wrong 
and an encroachment on her freedom, but 
because he fears the consequences of an evil eye. 
He accepts that a higher authority may monitor 
his behavior to ensure that its appropriate. 
Cameras are just the latest infringement on 
the civil liberties of public schoolchildren. 
Under the auspice of in locos parentis, schools 
can act like overbearing parents that control 
their childs dress, speech, and movement. 
Underground newspapers are banned, but 
online criticism remains uncensored, despite the 
efforts of controlling administrators. Several 
school districts have mandatory drug testing for 
students who wish to participate in after-school 
activities. Even the colleges, the lighthouses for 
open minds, have gotten into the act, establish
ing free-speech zones.
Schools have become insular fiefdoms, pro
tecting doorways like border crossings, brandMARTHA, from page A9
fascination that surrounds this scandal and the 
ridicule with which Stewart has been treated are 
not a reflection of some great American morali
ty, but of malice and jealousy. Enquirer-buying 
masses seek to resolve their own domestic short
comings by taking cheap shots at the woman 
while shes down.
Sure, she can make ribbon organizers and 
jelly-jar candles, but how will she handle the 
chow line and her new cellmates? How will she 
look when she trades her crisply-ironed khakis 
in for a pair of prison blues? The great Stewart 
huzzah is so much petty comic relief for worldweary news viewers.
To her credit, Stewart has always maintained 
an acute sense of humor; in 2000, she poked fun 
at herself by indulging in a bean burrito and 
some malt liquor on an episode of Late Night 
with Conan OBrien, and she is reportedly a fan 
of the Saturday Night Live parodies in her 
image. In this intense spotlight, however, her 
dignity is shaken. She has resigned as chairman 
of Martha Stewart Omnimedia, after taking a 
nearly $200 million hit, far more than what she /
initially saved by ditching ImClone. This week, 
the Lifetime network will begin re-airing 
Martha, Inc., the 2003 made-for-TV movie 
based on biographer Christopher Byrons best
seller of the same name. Viewers are expected to 
tune in by the millions.
Stewart has posted an official apology at 
www.Marthatalks.com, as well as in a full-page 
ad in the New York Times. For a petty and unfor
giving audience, however, this penance is too lit
tle, too late. But especially in todays turbulent 
international waters, the public must realize
ing its citizens with identification cards, and 
spinning a rule of law so offensive that even a 
jerkwater county sheriff would shake his head in 
disgust.
In high school, I was brought before the Star 
Chamber of vice-principals to respond to various 
crimes against the state. Once after innocuously 
popping a milk carton with the stomp of my foot, 
I was suspended out of school for one day for 
inciting a riot. The vice principal told me that 
the popping sound could be mistaken for a shot
gun blast. Apparently, the absence of screams of 
terror didnt matter.
But that was my second charge of inciting a 
riot. The first was when I was chased a rival 
schools mascot into a kickers net at a football 
game. That devious infraction was worth three 
days of in-school suspension, which I found to 
be a productive study hall. Maybe I need to be 
incarcerated to once again become an industri
ous member of society.
When school districts restrict civil liberties,
that Stewart is no hardened criminal. Give the 
girl a break.
There are greater fish to fry  complete 
recipes may be found at www.marthastewart.com.
they are in part responding to the demands of 
parents. When a child fails a class or gets cut 
from a sports team, an overprotective mom and 
dad will berate the teacher, coach, and the 
school board. And should they lose,, they can 
always sue.
Its come to the point that to find the next Eric 
Harris, schools are profiling kids who listen to 
Marilyn Manson and wear black trench coats. 
This might mollify paranoid parents, but it treats 
an anti-social teenager like a suspect every day 
at a place they should feel most comfortable.
Finding acceptance from their peers is hard 
enough. Learning under the fluorescent lights 
and watchful eye of Big Brother in a dingy, cinder 
block classroom doesnt make their life any easier.
Brad Grantz (bdg@J is a contributing alumnus 
for The Tartan. Should he return to his high school 
ever again, he plans to wear military fatigues to 
spite the administrators who cancelled Camo 
Day during Spirit Week.
L. Quinn Arroyo (lqa@) is a senior professional 
writing major and a frequent visitor to www.savemartha.com. She hopes one day to fill Martha 
Stewarts shoes, even if they are chunky, prisonissue combat boots.
With the Recording Industry Association of America in midst of hunting down Ifile-sharers, we had to ask:
+-----------------------;-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
;What do you think about the RIAA?
Charges against Stewart are half-baked
Vanessa ShyuArt StaffA PERSON

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  SEPTEMBER 29, 2003An
ARE YOU PREGNANT?
Womens Behavioral HealthCARE, of the Western 
Psychiatric Institute and Clinic, is studying how 
pregnancy outcomes differ among babies of women 
who are depressed, not depressed, and not depressed 
due to the use of antidepressants. If you are 0 to 20 
weeks pregnant and 15 to 45 years old, you may be 
eligible for this study. The study is funded by the 
National Institute of Mental Health, and participants will
be compensated.
For more information call 412-383-1231.
For all those who think a "good job " means 
90-hour work weeks andpin-stripe suits...
Consider Something Different
McMaster-Carr. Our company follows a non-traditional approach to developing 
management talent. Through assignments in areas such as marketing, purchasing, 
finance, systems, catalog development, or distribution, you will learn about our business 
from the inside out. As your knowledge and responsibilities increase, you will be 
involved in managing our people and our operations. At McMaster-Carr, advancement 
is directed not by your undergraduate major or tenure, but rather by your ability to 
challenge and improve our business practices.
For over 100 years, we have supplied industries worldwide with the products needed to 
maintain, repair, and operate everything from movie sets to manufacturing facilities. We 
publish a 3500-page catalog and carry over 400,000 different items on our shelves 
ready for immediate shipment.
We are looking for bright, creative individuals from diverse educational backgrounds to 
join our management team. We will be interviewing for opportunities available at all our 
locations.
McMaster-Carr 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Information Session - September 25th 
Campus Interviews - September 26th
www.mcmaster.com/careers
Atlanta GA  Chicago 1L ? Cleveland OH  Los Angeles CA  Princeton NJ
IM
NEWS
Administration
Intramural Director: Mike
Mastroianni x8-2214, or mma8@ 
Assistant Director: Mike Grzywinski 
x8-2214, or immike@
Intramural Secretary: Amy Kiryk x8- 
2053, or kiryk@
Womens President: Karoline Evans
koe@
Vice President: Shawn Quinn
squinn@
Important Dates
Monday September 29  Co-Rec 
Volleyball playoffs start 
Wednesday October 1  IM Board 
Meeting in Gym Conference Room at 
11:45 am
Thursday October 2  Rosters due 
for Doubles Table Tennis, Team Call 
Pool, Darts in the IM Office by 4:30 
pm
Thursday October 2  Co-Rec 
Volleyball Championships 
Monday October 6  Volleyball sea
son starts
Wednesday October 8  IM Cross 
Country Meet at 4:45 pm in 
Schenley Park Flagstaff Hill 
Thursday October 9  Mandatory 
Rules Meeting for Soccer at 4:30pm 
in the Arena Room 
Sunday October 12  IM Golf 
Tournament at Schenley Park Golf 
Course
Sports in Season
Flag Football
Games are being played at the
Stadium and IM Fields. The games 
are played on Monday through 
Thursday nights and Sunday after
noons. The regualr season ends 
Thursday. Playoffs will begin Sunday 
(October 5. Brackets will be available 
at noon on Friday October 3. Please 
stay off the field during varsity prac
tices. In the event of rain, games will 
be called at the field.
Co-Rec Volleyball
The playoffs begin tonight with the 
championships being held on 
Thursday night.
Tennis
Matches are underway at the 
University Courts. The matches are 
played Monday through Thursday 
nights. Please stay off the court until 
the varsity team has completely 
cleared the courts. Only approved 
athletic shoes are allowed on the ten
nis courts. In the event of a rain out, 
contact the IM Office for make up 
times.
Water Polo
Games started last week at the UC 
Pool. Schedules are available in the 
IM Office. Games are played Monday 
and Wednesday nights at the UC 
Pool. Please remember to follow the 
lifeguards instructions.
Bowling
The matches started yesterday. The 
matches are played at the PAA in 
Oakland on Sundays. Schedules are 
available in the IM Office. Please 
report scores to the IM Office.
Chess
Schedules are available in the IM 
Office. Play all matches as scheduled 
and report scores to the IM Office.
Sports Upcoming
Cross Country
The IM Cross Country Meet will beWednesday October 8 at 4:30 pm. 
The 1.9 mile course will start on 
Flagstaff Hill and finish behind 
Phipps. More info is available in the 
IM Office.
Golf
The IM Golf Tournament will be at 
Schenley Park Golf Course on 
Sunday October 11. Tee of any time 
between 8 am and 2 pm. Please sign 
in at the course. Green fees are $11 
with CMU ID. More info available at 
the IM Office.
Flag Football Rankings
Majors
1. The Untouchables (3-0-1)
2. Beta Eagles (3-1)
Intermediate
1. KDR Twins Right (3-0)
2. PiKA A (5-1)
3. Beta Eagles Stink (4-1)
Minors
1. KUPC Predators (2-0)
2. Brutal Ruckus (3-0)
3. Sig Ep (3-0)
4. Ego Maniacs (3-0)
5. SPIRIT Wont Stop (3-0)
Women
1. Hoopers A (2-0)
2. Fresh Meat (2-0)
3. Hoopers B (2-1)
All email rosters must be received 24 
hours before the posted deadline.
Offense falters in JHU territory, lose 21-0
FOOTBALL, from page A12
The first down measurements 
really hurt us, said sophomore 
defensive back Tom Pfister. It 
seemed like there were a bunch of 
close calls, and none of them went 
our way.
Perhaps the turning point of the 
game occured in the third quarter on 
one of those calls. During their 80 
yard touchdown drive, Johns 
Hopkins faced a fourth-and-inches 
on their own 29-yard line. On a quar
terback sneak the referees gave them 
the mark they needed.
Football is a game of inches, said 
Lackner. They attempted a fourth 
and inches in the third quarter and 
apparently made it. After viewing the
tape, I have to question the spot. 
Like the entire game, most of the 
fourth quarter was a defensive battle. 
The only score came in the last five 
minutes when Hopkins took over on 
CMUs 39-yard line after a loss on 
downs. On its seventh play of the 
drive and with only 51 seconds 
remaining, Cook found the end zone 
again for a six yard touchdown rush. 
The game would end with the score 
21-0. One of the prevalent weakness
es for the Tartans was pass coverage. 
Dilonno, playing for the injured 
George Merrell, was able to complete
18 of his 25 passes for an amazing 72 
percent completion percentage.He 
passed for 192 yards and one touch
down. One positive development for 
the Tartans was the frequent use of
the passing game. Highbergers 25 
passing attempts showed the promis
ing CMU receiver depth as well as 
Highbergers ability to avoid sacks. 
He completed passes to five different 
receivers, but he had only eight com
pletions.
I was put in the position to make 
plays and I didnt, said Highberger. 
This weeks game has put things in 
perspective for the Tartans, as they 
were able to get a better sense for 
what they need to work on in order to 
prepare for more difficult opponents 
in the upcoming weeks.
We need to sustain our drives bet
ter, complete big passes, and help out 
our defense, said Plusch. Theyre 
playing great and were not helping 
them.
Unlimited global career;
it lilllil
'' ' 3 y;- 'v'f' * I ,;Y-' Jftstetll
MIIHB ! \ i'i ...:.........I' i
Jtouhsk
.
UBS Investment Bank is a pre-eminent 
global financial services firm. Our 
business encompasses: Equities, Finance 
and Control, Fixed Income, Rates and 
Currencies, Information Technology, 
Investment Banking and Operations.
The key to achieving growth and 
change is proactively recruiting the best 
and brightest people into an inspiring 
culture, providing the opportunity and 
the resources to succeed. Our firm is 
focused on education, but it will be up 
to you to turn that education into your 
own success story. At UBS Investment 
Bank, you will have the freedom to 
demonstrate your strength of character 
in an environment where achievement 
and reward are naturally connected.
Diversity, one of our core values at UBS, is essential to our 
global success and that of our clients. To this end, we foster 
an innovative, flexible culture rooted in respect, ensuring 
that all talented UBS employees have the opportunity to 
thrive. As a result, we attract and retain open-minded, 
dedicated employees, each bringing a multitude of diverse 
perspectives to the firm. By embracing a diversity of 
cultures, skills and experiences, we create long-term value 
for our employees, clients and shareholders.
UBS Investment Bank is an equal opportunity employer 
committed to diversity in its workforce. (M/F/D/V)
We are accepting resumes from the Class 
of 2004. We welcome those interested to 
apply via your career office by:
Thursday, October 2,2003 
(Information Technology)
Thursday, October 9,2003 
(Investment Banking)
Interviews will be held at your Career 
Services Office on:
Thursday, October 16,2003 
(Operations)
Thursday, October 23,2003 
(Information Technology)
Thursday, October 30,2003 
(Investment Banking)
To apply for a position, please visit your 
career office or our website:
www.ubs.com/graduates
'Bank of the Year' - Investment Dealer's Digest 2003
Investment
Bank
*
 2003 UBS. The key symbol and UBS are the registered and unregistered trademarks of the UBS Group of companies around the world. All rights reserved. In the US, securities underwriting, trading and brokerage activities, and M & A advisory activities are provided by UBS Securities LLC, 
a registered broker/dealer that is a whoily owned subsidiary of UBS AG, a member of the New York Stock Exchange and other principle exchanges, and a member of SIPC.

---------------------------------------------------

West is best; 
Seattle and 
K. C. on top
diqtw miqqihaS
What, no Tampa Bay or Miami 
games this week? With my Florida 
bent sidelined due to bye weeks, 
many of you may be wondering what 
on earth I will write about today. 
Perhaps the weather or maybe my 
homework. Maybe Ill even talk 
about your homework or your 
favorite band. Surely I couldnt talk 
about football; the focus of my previ
ous columns is enjoying a weekend 
of sunshine and a few rounds of golf 
to rest up. While I admit that I may 
have ranted about the two Florida 
teams, both of whom I feel are Super 
Bowl-bound, I still have a good deal 
to talk about around the league.
To begin with, there is a new 
leader in the NFC West, as both the 
Rams and particularly the 49ers have 
lost the edge. The Seattle Seahawks 
have emerged as the team to beat.
QB Matt Hasselbeck has stepped up 
his play and the high powered 
offense of Seattle has been comple
mented by a tough defense. This 
team has shown itself to be the most 
complete team in the West, and is 
maldng a strong push to win the divi
sion. Dont think that youth and 
inexperience will hurt this team 
either. They are held together by 
coach Mike Holmgren, who has been 
one of the best in the league over the 
last decade. Expect this team to hold 
together throughout the season and 
contend for the NFC West champi
onship late into the year. If they con
tinue to play at the level they have 
been, they will make the playoffs 
and give other contenders a tough 
road to the Super Bowl.
The AFC West has proven to be 
another interesting division, as 
Denver and Kansas City have both 
flexed a little offensive muscle dur
ing the seasons beginning. Priest 
Holmes continues to dominate and 
Jake Plummer announced his arrival 
in Denver last week with a threetouchdown first quarter against an 
aging Oakland team. San Diego and 
the Raiders have been nothing but 
disappointments so far this year, so 
look for this division to be won by 
either the Chiefs or the Broncos, who 
play a huge game next week. I like 
K.C. because of defense and an 
incredible special teams led by 
explosive return-man Daunte Hall.
The Vikings have just put an excla
mation point on their opening games 
with a 35-7 pounding of the Niners 
Sunday. This team has already beat
en all of their division rivals, includ
ing the Packers, at Green Bay. They 
are the best team in the NFC North 
and so far they pose the biggest chal
lenge to the Bucs as the best team in 
the conference. Although Frerotte 
played well yesterday in replacement 
of Culpepper, this team needs 
Daunte if they wish to advance deep 
into the playoffs. If he returns to 
form, watch out for the Vikings. I 
dont think theyll go all the way, but 
they are a legitimate threat.
Switching back to the AFC, how 
about them Colts? Peyton Manning 
has done nothing but listen to critics 
condemn his big-game performance 
since he broke into the NFL as a star. 
Manning, Edgerrin James, and 
Marvin Harrison have lit up the 
scoreboard this year; however, they 
have been overshadowed by Tony 
Dung/s now successful defense. The 
D has long been a weakness for 
Indianapolis, but if it stays strong  
as it has this season  the Colts 
could be dangerous. Although they 
did win a big game a couple weeks 
ago against rival Tennessee, and 
Manning and Dungy are among the 
best at what they do, they are both 
chokers. Manning rarely shows up 
for playoff games and the Dungycoached Bucs never lived up to their 
potential. It took John Gruden to 
push Tampa Bay over the edge. The 
Colts will make the playoffs, and 
possibly advance to the second 
round, but no Super Bowl for Indy.
Those four stories are ones to keep 
an eye on as the season progresses. 
The power structure in the NFL has 
been thrown out of whack this year, 
as contenders like the Eagles, Niners, 
Patriots, Rams, Raiders, and Jets 
have seemingly performed below 
expectations. Teams on the rise like 
Washington, Buffalo, and Baltimore, 
along with the teams I mentioned 
earlier, are proving that the NFL isnt 
dominated by one or two squads. 
While I hold that it will be an allFlorida Super Bowl, there are many 
teams around the league who have a 
legitimate shot at playing in Houston 
come January.
Colin Holloway fcolinh@J is a 
senior history major. He welcomes all 
responsible replies to his column.
Red zone blues: Johns Hopkins beats CMU, 21-0
Fullback Brad Stanley, who had 14 carries for 54 yards is tackled by defensive lineman Alan Cody.
 Thistledown
Whos next: Carnegie Mellon (3-1) at Wesley 
College (1-2) 1 pm, Saturday, September 28 on 
WRCT, 88.3 FM.
Last meeting: This is the first meeting between 
these two teams.
The skinny: The Wesley Wolverines are off to a 
disappointing start. Although the team finished 
5-5 last year, they return 14 starters and had 
expectations of a Pool B bid in the playoffs. But 
two weeks ago, Wesley suffered their second 
defeat to a regional opponent. The Wolverines 
were throttled by the seventh ranked Rowan 
University Profs, 31-0. Wesley can still win their 
conference, the Atlantic Central Football 
Conference, but it would be little consolation 
since they would not earn an automatic birth.
Look for: Wesley first-year running back Keith 
Holland had two touchdowns last week. He 
returned the opening kickoff 85 yards and ran 16
yards to cap a 48-yard drive to make the score 24-
0. Junior free safety Rocky Meyers had nine tack
les and is averaging 17 per game.
Result: Wesley won last week against a winless 
Kean University team, 31-0. The Tartans were in 
position to win last week against a fine JHU 
team. CMU has struggled on the Atlantic Coast 
in recent memory, but the loss to JHU was the 
barometer the Tartans needed. Tartans always 
declaw Wolverines. Tartans 23, Wolverines 13.
Correction: Last week I wrote that QB Jarrod 
Highberger had four turnovers against JHU. 
There was actually only one interception, but its 
worth noting that Highberger was overwhelmed 
by JHU in his first game. That wasnt the case 
this week. Many of his passes were only slightly 
off target, possibly due to the rainy weather. He 
was 8 of 25 for 88 yards with three interceptions 
(2 for 8 for 24 yards in the first half).
Compiled by 
Brad Grantz
by Preston Treichel
Staffwriter
CMU had its first true test this Saturday when the 23rd 
ranked Johns Hopkins Blue Jays came to Gesling stadi
um. The CMU offense was stagnant for most of the 
game, setting them up for an eventual 21-0 loss. The loss 
drops the Tartans to 3-1 on the season.
Time of possession was the name of the game on 
Saturday. Johns Hopkins controlled the ball for almost 
39 of the 60 minutes, roughly doubling CMUs time of 
possession.
Johns Hopkins was able to capitalize immediately on 
its first drive. A drive lasting 5:16 eventually brought 
them to the end zone with a shifty 28-yard carry by run
ning back Adam Cook. Cooks nifty moves gave the CMU 
defense trouble all day, as he ended with 141 yards for 
the game.
Hopkins had a couple good backs and we missed way 
too many tackles, said senior linebacker Mike 
Danielson. They execute their offense very well and if a 
guy misses his assignment, they make you pay for it.
Twice CMU failed to turn drives inside the JHU 30 
yard line into points. On CMUs second possession of the 
game, the Tartans drove to the Johns Hopkins 12 yard 
line to set up a 3rd and 2.
Fullback Brad Stanley couldnt get the first down. 
Instead of opting for the short field goal and three 
points, the coaching staff took a risk on 4th and 2. 
Another dive up the middle by Stanley was stopped well 
short of the 10 yard line.
We didnt make a single big play offensively, said 
senior center Ryan Plusch. We felt we could move them 
in the running game. We were doing well, but then we
would drop a pass or make a bad decision.
Although CMU was only behind 7-0 at halftime, they 
could be thankful that it wasnt a larger deficit. A key 
interception by senior defensive back Joe Ciccarelli at 
the Tartan five yard line with 9:56 remaining and a 
missed Johns Hopkins field goal at the end of the first 
half kept the game close. Ciccarelli was a formidable 
defender the whole game, leading all players with 13 
tackles. Johns Hopkins started the second half much in 
the same way it did in the first. They completed an 13- 
play, 80-yard scoring drive on the opening possession of 
the third quarter. The touchdown came from a Blue Jay 
quarterback Zach Dilonno, whose shoulder fake left 
wide receiver Anthony Triplin wide open for a 26-yard 
reception.
Aside from CMU junior quarterback Jarrod 
Highberger and Dilonno trading a pair of interceptions, 
the third quarter didnt entail much action. Sophomore 
defensive back Steve Killmeyer nabbed the interception 
for the Tartans to stop a JHU drive in the CMU red zone.
But the offense went three-and-out after the sopho
mores pick at CMU two yard line.
The offensive game plan was to run right at the 
Hopkins defense since they are a smaller team, said 
senior offensive guard and co-captain Chad 
Zimmerman. However, once we fell behind we had to 
abandon the running game and start passing to get quick 
points.
Nothing seemed to be going CMUs way, including the 
first down measurements. Each time the referees 
brought out the chains for first down measurements, 
Johns Hopkins succeeded in getting those important first 
downs.
See FOOTBALL, page All
cugcnc naid/jumur oiciu
Jeffrey Friedrich, a sophomore defensive tackle, tackles JHU quarterback Zach 
Dilonno.
Shafeeq Sinnamohideen/Junior Staff
First-year forward Jonathon Browne angles for the kick against Oberlin on Saturday night. Browne scored the first goal en route to a 5-0 win.
Men dominate Oberlin with heads up play
SportsShorts
Volleyball
The volleyball team improved its record to 
13-4, spiking four matches for the sweep in a 
tournament at Lycoming College this weekend. 
They overcame Lycoming, Nueman, 
Susquehanna, and Scranton.
The team is a young one, having lost five 
seniors including all-American outside hitter 
Lauren Schmidt, who now serves as the teams 
manager. The team now includes eight first-years, 
the teams best class ever, according to coach Julie 
Webb.
The team did not drop a game all weekend, 
winning versus Neumann 30-9, 30-27, 30-24, 
Lycoming 30-19, 30-23, 30-21, Susquehanna 
30-25, 30-15, 31-29, and Scranton 30-28, 
30-25, 30-21. Sophomore middle hitter Chrissy 
Bartek averaged 4.25 kills per game, hit for .340, 
and averaged 1.12 blocks per game. She also hit 
eight aces.
In another notable offensive performance, 
senior setter Candi Spier averaged 12.91 assists 
per game with 21 kills, hitting .570. Senior libero 
Jennifer King kept the balls off the floor with 54 
digs, averaging 5.4 digs per game.
Junior outside hitter Laura Graf, who Webb 
calls the backbone of the team averaged 5.58 
digs per game with 34 kills. The team travels to 
Washington University on October 3 and 4 to play 
the tenth-ranked Emory and #16 New York 
University.
by Dan Ceppos
Junior Staffwriter
The Carnegie Mellon mens soccer team 
overwhelmed Oberlin College on Saturday 
Night at Gesling Stadium. The Tartans con
trolled all facets of the game and shut out the 
Yeomen by a score of 5-0.
Strong play generated from the midfield
ers speed, tenacity, and defensive skill pro
vided chances for the offense to capitalize. 
They did so early on, scoring three goals in 
the first half, one on a Mark Painter header in 
the last minute of play of the first half. This 
was the senior midfielders second goal in 
less than ten minutes and third goal in two 
games.
The first goal was scored by first-year for
ward Jonathon Browne, who beat Oberlins 
leaping keeper on a one-on-one chip shot in 
the eleventh minute. Browne also had an 
assist later in the match.
Ball control and sound defensive strategy 
seemed to dictate most of the second half. 
The Tartans controlled the sidelines and 
staved off all meager Oberlin attempts at
scoring. Like the first half, the vast majority 
of time was spent on the visitors side of the 
field.
Brett Holmes, junior midfielder, and 
Anthony Zenn, first-year forward, each took 
advantage of Oberlins defensive miscues as 
time wound down. Their goals ensured victo
ry for Carnegie Mellon.
The only truly disconcerting moment of 
the match happened in the first half when 
play stopped and Oberlins Robert 
Braithwaite had to leave the game with an 
injury.
The Tartans are often undefeated or close 
to it through their early season.
In the first half, we owned them. I mean 
just look at the scoreboard, said an enthusi
astic fan. I dont even think they (Oberlin) 
have shot on us yet.
The Tartans dominated the visiting 
Yeomen in most statistics. They rifled eleven 
shots, eight of which were on goal. The 
Oberlin goalkeeper stopped three. Carnegie 
Mellons keeper, meanwhile, faced no shots 
from the opposition. CMU won the only cor
ner kick of the match as well, late in the sec
ond half.
However, not all statistics were in the 
Tartans favor. They were whistled for fouling 
Oberlin 19 times, four more than their oppo
sition, and called offside on 8 occasions. No 
cards were issued in the match.
Carnegie Mellon looks forward to showcas
ing its skill next Sunday when UAA confer
ence play begins at Washington University in 
St. Louis.
We havent been tested yet but we look 
forward to conference play, said assistant 
coach Matt Crummy.
Head coach Nick Gaudioso did show some 
tempered pride in his teams early season 
domination.
UAA play starts next weekend. Its too 
early to tell how good we are, he said. It is 
nice to be undefeated going into conference 
play, though.
At the games conclusion Carnegie 
Mellons record remained perfect at 5-0-0 as 
team continued on its undefeated path. 
Oberlins record dropped to 4-3-2 with the 
loss.
Carnegie Mellons next home game is 
scheduled for 11 am, October 11, versus the 
University of Chicago.
Womens Soccer
The womens soccer team remained undefeat
ed and moved to 5-0-1 after defeating Penn StateAltoona on Monday. Altoona went down 6-2. 
Senior midfielder Merry McConnochie picked up 
the hat trick with three goals. Sophomore mid
fielder/forward Julie Richter scored a goal, and 
sophomore forward Hallie Dumont picked up 
two. Each of the two had two assists. First-year 
midfielder Lisa Pascoli also had an assist, as did 
Nadya Yaghoubi, a sophomore midfielder/for
ward. CMU had 35 shots to Altoonas measly four.
Mens Soccer
The Tartans defeated St. Vincent in an away 
game last Wednesday. First-year forward 
Jonathan Browne delivered the first goal of the 
game. Junior forward James Steidel offered up 
the second goal, and senior midfielder Mark 
Painter hammered home the third. After the 
teams victory at home on Saturday versus 
Oberlin College, they remain undefeated at 5-0-0.
compiled by 
Andrew Johnson
Sports
29 September 2003 THE TARTAN PageAl2
fl

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

CONTENTS.
STAFF
EDITOR.IN.CHIEF 
MANAGING EDITOR 
PILLBOX EDITOR 
COMICS EDITOR 
PHOTO EDITOR 
ART EDITOR 
COPY MANAGER 
PRODUCTION MANAGER
Andrew Johnson 
Daniel Goldman 
Celarne Polanick 
Neal Shyam 
Jeff Cullers 
Bum Lee 
James Auwaerter 
Jim Puls
Cover photo by Jeff Cullers.
The Tartan
Box 1017
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15289
www.thetartan.org
page 6: Alasdair Gillies pipes up.
4o CMU Theahrtn4oeCM
A tuneful evening.
UA4ILO:OtesnM
20 plays in 40 minutes.
8 ? LetA & Btens:4oAM
Martin Luther onscreen.
10 ? H4t4sC4pAsM
Just face it:With a donated drum set, a tube bass amp, and sequencing software 
designed for the Nintendo Gameboy on which they write their music, 
Handface played the Underground last Saturday.
CraAodrtM
A pepAts prtrdesAM
CMU's bagpiping community.
SCh44a drzAM
Jack Black rock-enrolls.
Mark Rau/ Photo Staff
11 ? C4neCsM
Marvel, part two.
THEEARN SP MBT2B9AB, S003

---------------------------------------------------

Talk to her
GenderTalk aims to investigate gender relations on campus
Last Tuesday in the Dowd Room of the UC, thirteen students gathered over free pizza for the first 
meeting of Gendertalk, an initiative started by Student Affairs. Women weren't the only ones talk
ing; three attendees were male, and the atmosphere was informal and friendly to both genders. 
The discussion leaders pointed out from the beginning that feminism, as defined in the dictionary, 
means the desire for equality between sexes.
[Gendertalk] was started last year by two grad students and myself to have a forum for discus
sion around topics related to gender, said Michele Grab, coordinator of Student Development and 
associate dean of Student Affairs. Over the course of the talks, she said, they hope to address the 
meaning of feminism, womens history month, pornography, representation of women in the 
media, and more. Moderators are there to keep the discussions informal and energetic, she said, 
and to keep debate friendly and considerate.
The overall topic is ... a starting point of the year, said Tara Gilbreath, a gender issues intern 
for the division of Student Affairs Were talking about stuff that really exists at CMU, like having 
a minority of female students and also being such a technology-based university.
They covered topics ranging from how feminists are viewed both on and off campus and media 
portrayal of womens and gender issues, to how women feel they are treated in classes and extra 
curricular activities. Particular interest was sparked in certain activities, such as buggy and booth,
where gender roles seem to be 
strictly defined.
It was good to see that every
one was willing to say what they 
wanted, said Naveen Marwah, 
a junior business administration 
major. Everybody was relaxed 
and laid back about it. As a guy, 
it wasnt intimidating to partici
pate in the discussion."
The Gendertalk lectures are 
held roughly once a month  
the next scheduled is October 21 
in the Danforth lounge.
dpetqta gpuAQriiMl 
sAaffhrtApr
 , : : 
J.T. Trollman/Assistant Photo Editor
Corrections clarifications
September 15  The feature story on Lawrenceville included a photo of soapmaker Jim Savarino practicing his craft. The photo was credited to Celanie Polanick, Pillbox Editor, but was taken by Ryan Sigesmund, Junior Staffwriter.
September 22  The story "Design for Living, which was about John Maedas lecture during the Wats:On? Festival, was incorrectly credited to Albert Cohen, Senior Staffwriter. It was written by Rachel Papernick, Staffwriter.
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. To report a correction or clarification, please contact the Editor-in-Chief Andrew Johnson at 412.268.2111.
CARNEGIE ALMANAC.
JO YEARS AGO
September 29, 1953The theme for Carnegie Techs homecoming was announced to be the "Roaring Twenties." Classes on the day before homecoming would be dismissed so that students could watch the dean crown the Homecoming Queen that afternoon. The homecoming game would be played against Geneva at Forbes field, witha dance later that night.
25 YEARS AGO
October 3, 1978A new undergraduate grading system was proposed for the 1979 school year. In the fall, the following year began with a system including pluses and minuses with the existing A, B, C, D, R system. Then, as now, pluses and minuses were not figured into the QPA, but were recorded on transcripts and the reports that go home to parents.
1 YEARS AGO
September 27, 1993CMU dropped from 19 to 24 in the U.S. News and World Report. The Universitys overall quality received an score of 86.5 out of 100, decreasing 2.7 points from the previous year, which placed CMU between the University of Michigan and a two-way tie between Emory University in Georgia, and University of Notre Dame. Carnegie Mellon had the third highest acceptance rate of the top 25 at 59 percent, and tied with UCLA for the lowest graduation percentage of 72 percent.
5 YEARS AGO
September 28, 1998An earthquake hit Western Pennsylvania at 3:52 pm EDT; its magnitude of 5.2 shook buildings in at least four states. It was centered in northwest Pennsylvania, about 15 miles northwest of the city of Sharon, according to the U.S. Geological Survey in Golden Colorado. There were no reports of injuries or significant structural damage.
1 YEAR AGO
September 23, 2002The Student Senate changed over to an annual spring election pattern in an effort to increase voter participation. Spring elections, Senate hoped, would gain time with which to educate voters on the issues and candidates. The lack of attention was a significant problem; at the time, said the article, some students werent even aware of the existence of Student S enate.
Thre FleavostC mleo:I FnrddvIoniI
THEEARN SP MBT2B9AB, S003

---------------------------------------------------

Juan Pablo Izquierdo and the CMU Philharmonic
Jeff Cullers/ Photo Editor
In tune with tradition
CMU Philharmonic keeps up with the professional music world
The Carnegie Mellon School of Music 
is about to celebrate its ninety-year 
anniversary; for almost that long, every 
instrumentalist in the school has played 
in the Carnegie Mellon Philharmonic, 
which has been around for about 75 
years, said Robert Skavronsky, ensem
bles manager.
Undergraduate and graduate stu
dents as well as performance residents 
play side-by-side in eight to ten per
formances a year. They play in concerts, 
an opera, a musical, and a holiday 
show, among others. All music majors 
are automatically included in the 
orchestra, but as with professional 
orchestras, all audition to see which 
chair, or rank, each will occupy. 
Because their hourly pay rate is so high, 
professional instrumentalists in an 
orchestra must learn their music quick
ly in as few rehearsals as possible. 
Though the Philharmonic is not paid, 
their process is the same; Wednesdays 
concert required a lot of hard work from 
the performers, but did not have an 
extensive rehearsal period, said Juan 
Pablo Izquierdo, music director of the 
Philharmonic and conductor of the con
cert.
We had five practices with the whole 
orchestra at three hours each. Thats a 
little less than fifteen hours, said
Izquierdo. Its a highly competent 
orchestra, so one can do those things.
Izquierdo, who was recently appoint
ed as conductor and music-director of 
the Orquestra Sinfonica de Chile in his 
native Santiago, is currently a professor 
of music and director of orchestral stud
ies at Carnegie Mellon. Izquierdo had a 
high opinion of the orchestras first per
formance of the year, and is optimistic 
about the rest of the season.
It was excellent. The orchestra 
sounded magnificent considering that 
this was the first concert. It was quite 
outstanding, he said.
Skavronsky, too, was happy with the 
Philharmonics performance; each year 
is in some ways a new beginning for the 
orchestra, he said, but this years new 
crop of musicians seems to be blending 
in quickly.
It went well considering it was the 
initial concert, he said. It usually 
takes several weeks because it is their 
first time together. There are a lot of 
new faces, and [there is] adjusting to a 
new venue.
Despite playing to a less than packed 
house, the Carnegie Mellon 
Philharmonic delivered a professional
and polished show.
I think [the show] went really well. 
We had good sound and theres a great 
audience, said Cristina Vasziliscin, 
first-year music major and second vio
linist.
This concert featured a recent gradu
ate of Carnegie Mellon University. 
Elizabeth McCafferty completed her 
masters degree in music in May. She 
was one of two winners in the Carnegie 
Mellon Concerto Competition. The 
other winner, Eunice Keem, a secondyear, will perform at the Homecoming 
concert on October 24. Despite the tal
ent resting in the Carnegie Mellon 
Philharmonic, it goes unnoticed by the 
majority of the student population, said 
Skavronsky.
It is probably not as well known as 
the athletic teams. The on-campus com
munity is not as familiar with it as we 
would like to see, he said.
I like to think it is [appreciated] by 
those who have heard it. We would like 
to get more students, so we have started 
offering free admission to Carnegie 
Mellon students, said Amy Stabenow, 
concert manager.
qa.rpw sa.prl P.wtir sAaffhrtApr
CpUtph 
CMU Philharmonic
CoP,SkuS Indu6 toll 
hSDrSc.SP Ea
They may still be students, but 
Carnegie Mellon Philharmonics 
sound is fully professional. Last 
Wednesdays performance in 
Carnegie Music Halls full, formal 
concert setting let the ensemble 
demonstrate their prowess.
Entering the hall is like stepping 
back in time; its ornate arched 
ceiling adds both the acoustic and 
aesthetic grandeur of an older, 
full-sized concert hall. As the 
audience filtered into the hall, the 
acoustics were already jumping as 
musicians tuned their instru
ments onstage. When this was 
done, the maestro, Juan Pablo 
Izquierdo, burst onto the stage.
The fine-tuned harmonies of 
Beethovens Egmont Overture, 
Op.84, and the Romantic delicacy 
of Franz Schuberts Symphony 
No. 8 in B Minor (Unfinished) 
D.759, showed off the orchestras 
ability to blend. Izquierdo seemed 
to light a fire under the orchestra 
with his ceaseless energy. When 
the audience returned from inter
mission, only the strings and 
piano were seated on the stage to 
perform Bela Bartoks Miraculous 
Mandarin, Op. 19, with Elizabeth 
McCafferty, the featured flautist, 
who holds a masters degree in 
music from CMU. McCafferty was 
one of two winners in the 
Carnegie Mellon Concerto 
Competition. The other winner, 
Eunice Keem, a second-year vio
linist, will perform at the home
coming concert on October 24.
McCaffertys skill with her flute 
held the audience captive in their 
seats, and when the piece was 
over, they called her back onto the 
stage twice with unbounded 
enthusiasm. As they left that 
night, the audience seemed trans
formed; faces glowed with a new 
 or at least renewed  appreci
ation for the symphony.
ba.rpw sa.prl 
P.wtir sAaffhrtApr4THEEARN SP MBT2B9AB, S003

---------------------------------------------------

Now our plays are as good as our pizza
20 Plays in 40 Minutes... Or Your Pizza's Free delivers as promised, in record time
Anthony DAuria/ Photo Staff
Will Reynolds and Rebecca Stanley seemed ready for anything onstage
Neo-Futurist theater does not take a 
lot of money, but it definitely requires 
ingenuity. An incarnation on campus is 
an adaptation of Too Much Light Makes 
The Baby Go Blind by Greg Allen, a mem
ber of the Neo-Futurists, a Chicagobased theatre troupe with a flair for dra
matic entropy. Allens 100 Neo-Futurist 
mini-plays were adapted for 20 Plays in 
40 Minutes... Or Your Pizzas Free by 
Laura Gross, an MFA directing student 
in the drama department. There are no 
complicated sets, no lighting, and mini
mal props; the hallmark of the move
ment is its stark emphasis on the brutal 
honesty of what is being said onstage.
To add to the authenticity of the expe
rience, Neo-Futurists often try to incor
porate an element of chance or audience 
choice into their productions. Acting 
and musical theater students Elizabeth 
DeRosa, a senior, and juniors Mike 
Dunay, Kate Marilley, Will Reynolds, 
and Rebecca Stanley performed from 
what was literally a menu listed on the 
inside of the program consisting of 20 
plays. Audience members ordered the 
next play to be performed by shouting 
out titles. The five actors did not seem to 
mind, and performed each play with 
ease and enthusiasm.
The race against the clock has you on 
a constant adrenaline rush, said 
DeRosa. Since you have all of your 
friends in the audience shouting out the
play names, this sort of play is really fun 
to perform.
The program contained the program 
notes from Allens original production, 
which ask the audience, WHY ARE 
YOU READING THIS? You should be 
concentrating on whats going on 
around you. This page isnt going to tell 
you what to expect or how to interpret 
it, so you might as well make something 
useful out of it. Like maybe a paper air
plane. Or take it down and jot phone 
messages on it? Im not being malicious. 
I just wanted to raise some issues. So, 
you made it to the end. Thanks for com
ing. And remember, its better to hurl 
yourself screaming naked into the void 
than to lie down and sleep with it.
I had been interested in this material 
for years and wanted to produce the 
show in Philadelphia, said Gross. The 
artistic director of the Neo-Futurists out 
of Chicago is pretty possessive of his 
work, and the rights were something 
like $80 a night, so I shelved the project 
and am now lucky enough to have the 
opportunity to do it at CMU  colleges 
dont have to pay rights, since the per
formances are free.
This play was a graduate directing 
project. We got one new grad director 
this year, and she directed it. There was 
no funding; it was a completely unsup
ported production, said production
manager Rebecca Baillie. This means 
we get no designers, no money to build 
a set and no money for costumes or 
props. Everything you saw came from 
the director and the cast. This is the first 
directing that Laura has done here. The 
new grad directors always start off the 
year with one acts of their choice.
Despite the fact that the plays only 
lasted a few minutes, they were not skits 
or even scenes; each presented an entire 
idea with honesty and poignancy not 
always present in a full-length play.
The 20 different plays performed 
address issues from every end of the 
spectrum. Beauty and the Breast is 
about the insecurity associated with 
girls becoming women. More News 
From the Art World satirizes dwindling 
credibility of the art world. While 
Grasping the Situation is about how 
insecurity, anger, and pride drive the 
way people make decisions.
I think the style of the play is such 
that youre laughing in spite of yourself 
even if the material is a bit disturbing, 
said Gross. Why am I cracking up at 
two people deconstructing a massshooting? Thats the way I like to get my 
points across.
Its harsh realism and disregard for tra
ditional theatrical conventions some
times give Neo-Futuristic plays a sense 
of glamour. But its rawness may not 
please everyone, and its spastic speed 
has a definite downside. The brevity of 
each play does not leave time to put 
together the plot or think about the 
deeper meaning of the play.
The play was hilarious, but after a 
while it got to be too much, said Allison 
Kolb, a first-year creative writing major 
and audience member. The profanity 
and constant striving for some sort of 
meaning where none exists can become 
a little oppressive.
Though not everyone liked their 
work, the company could not have been 
accused of false advertising; true to the 
honesty of Neo-Futurism, at the end of 
the performance the pizza was free.
caAyprtwp RyiTkuiwl 
P.wtir sAaffhrtApr
CpUtph j
20 Plays in 40 I
,tw.Apu III Wr vi.r 2
Pizza's Free j
wgS iSlld hrnbumA pnP,Sll 
CS,rSP
hSDrSc.SP Esrg f Erg j
Brutal honesty can be funny, cruel, 
or both: at 20 Plays in 40 Minutes 
or Your Pizzas Free, audience 
members were either rendered 
helpless by laughter or stone-cold 
shocked.
The show is atypical from the start, 
or even before. As they entered, a 
pre-show juggling act let the audi
ence know that they could expect 
bold, colorful choices.
The plays themselves were short, 
sweet, and to the point. Each 
addressed some social issue or 
human shortcoming with either 
extreme comedy or unmatched 
bluntness.
But short as the plays were, the 
director and actors had clearly lav
ished time on each piece.
The actors understood the text and 
performed it well, careening from 
happy-go-lucky to chilling in sec
onds flat.
The fact that the performers had 40 
minutes to finish 20 different plays 
was a constant source of urgency 
and excitement.
The clock ticking in the background 
kept the actors constantly moving 
forward and not dwelling on any 
one scene, and kept the audience 
wondering what came next.
Though the subject matter was 
sometimes too intense for some 
audience members, most people 
appreciated this fresh, vibrant show. 
Futurism could hardly ask for a bet
ter revival; these talented perform
ers are the bright future of the artform itself.
caAyprtwp RyiTkuiwl 
P.wtir sAaffhrtApr
THEEARN SP MBT2B9AB, S003

---------------------------------------------------

Carnegie Mellon is a gathering place for students, professionals, and enthusiasts of the bagpipePipe Dreams
Jeff Cullers/Photo Editor
Norman Gillies played Amazing Grace for the tailgaters last Sunday before the Steelers game at Heinz Field.
For most of the worlds bagpipers, traveling to the 
Highlands of Scotland would be a pilgrimage of sorts; 
for Alasdair Gillies, head of CMUs bagpiping program, 
its more like going home. Now that he has reached the 
top echelon of competitive piping, Gillies returns to the 
Highlands every summer for weeks of competition 
against other top pipers from around the world.
Every year, I try to make the annual pilgrimage 
back to one of the oldest [competitions], and thats 
called the Northern Meeting, he said. The festival, 
which happens every September in the Eden Court 
Theatre in Inverness, Scotland, began in the late 
1700s, and has come to denote the competitive stan
dard of piping.
To become anybody in piping, you have to win a 
prize at the Northern Meeting, said Gillies. Its 
become the premiere competition of the solo piping 
world.
Gillies himself has won enough preliminary prizes to 
qualify him to play there and win the Silver Star  
eleven times. His closest contemporary has won the 
award four times. Famed piper Douglas MacPherson 
won the award twelve times before retiring several 
years ago.
In the old days, Gillies would have worn the medal 
on his chest. But next to the other ten Silver Stars, as 
well as other honors, joked Gillies, it might not fit.
Gillies was born into a piping family in Ullapool, in 
Wester Ross, in the Northwest Highlands of Scotland. 
He started learning the pipes when he wasnt much 
older than his son Norman is now, about nine, taking 
after his father Norman Gillies, also a renowned piper.
A resurgence of interest in the native instrument was 
brought about in the 1970s by the county, when it 
employed pipers as teachers and placed them in local 
school districts.
Most of the boys and a fair few of the girls all had to 
go and try to play the bagpipes, he said. In those 
days, it was the only instrument you could learn in 
school.
For children, like adults, piping was almost always 
competitive, but when he had exhausted the school 
training, Gillies wanted a higher education in the 
instrument. At sixteen, he left school and joined the 
British army as a junior piper. He spent 17 and a half 
years in the Queens Own Highlanders, an infantry 
regiment.
Being a piper wasnt exactly a safe job, he said. We 
were soldiers first, pipers second.
He was a machine gun platoon sergeant in the Gulf 
War and a rifleman in the aftermath of the Falklands 
War, and spent three and a half years in Northern 
Ireland. But the main attraction of joining the army, he 
said, was the piping itself.
That was the only place in those days for further 
education in piping, he said.
Carnegie Mellons music degree in bagpiping would
nt exist for another ten years, until 1990, Gillies esti
mates, when Jimmy McIntosh began it.
McIntosh arrived at CMU in 1985, and at first, all he 
could do was give private lessons; there werent
enough students to start a band, let alone any demand 
for a degree program, he said. After two or three years 
of training, the students were ready to play together as 
the Carnegie Mellon Pipes and Drums.
The band first played at Spring Carnival in 1986, but 
didnt really start going much of anything until 1987, 
said Michael Domain, 36, one of its founding mem
bers, who graduated in 1985 with a degree in chemical 
engineering. Now, he says, its musical prowess is 
established in Pittsburgh and elsewhere.
Some of the other bands [at the St. Patricks Day 
Parade] are just dreadful, because theyve never been 
taught to use their instruments properly, he said. Its 
like any other instrument; its difficult, and you need a 
teacher.
Though outside gigs are usually kept to a minimum, 
the band occasionally dons all its finery for the rest of 
Pittsburgh to see; they march every year in the citys St. 
Patricks Day parade, and performed for tailgaters in 
the Heinz Field parking lot before Sundays Steelers 
game.
Gilliess son, Norman, 9, played Amazing Grace in 
the parking lot for tailgating fans.
Hes been dabbling for a while now, but hes been 
more serious about it for about a year, said Gillies. 
Its expected that hell follow in our footsteps.
Patrick Regan, a 1996 alumnus and the CMU bagpiping programs first graduate, plays with Carnegie 
Mellon Pipes and Drums at ceremonial occasions like 
Commencement and the recent September 11 memo
rial service. Regan only gets paid for about a third of 
the bands on-campus engagements.
Theres a special place in my heart for CMU any
way, he said. If they have money to pay me, great; if 
not, thats fine, too.
Other ensemble members feel likewise, he said; 
because bagpiping instruction is rare to find. Gillies 
pedigree and virtuosity make the band both an educa
tional journey and a career destination for many of the 
citys finest pipers.
Except for the studio lessons while he was here, Jon 
Love, another alumnus, didnt study bagpipe at all; he 
graduated in 1995 with a BS in chemistry, and now 
works for Pittsburgh Plate Glass.
He had never played before he came to college, but 
now lives in the area, and has played with the band for
12 years.
The group travels five or six times a year, and some
times more, he said, to competitions all over the east
ern U.S.; the competition coming up in early October 
in Ligonier, PA will be the nearest one all year.
Were grade three out of five, but almost all the 
bands fall into grades four and five, he said. As pipe 
bands go, were pretty good.
The vast majority of CMUs pipers have never picked 
one up before they arrive, said Gillies, but many who
THEEARN SP MBT2B9AB, S003

---------------------------------------------------

join the band remain in the area after they graduate, 
and some stay for the band itself, which remains a 
close-knit but diverse sampling of the CMU communi
ty. Band members include undergrads, graduate stu
dents, alumni, and several people with jobs outside the 
field.
It was actually one of the determining factors that 
decided whether I stayed in town, said band member 
Richard Manning, 24, who started playing the pipes 
while at Central Catholic High School on Fifth Avenue. 
He applied to CMU, but ended up going to Duquesne 
for liberal arts, and now works as a deputy sheriff for 
Allegheny County.
Manning met his roommate, alumnus Lyric Todkill, 
22, through the band. The two moved in together in 
June, to a house in Bethel Park, about 10 miles outside 
the city.
We were friends right from the start, said Todkill, 
who just finished his BFA in performance and contin
ues to play in the band.
Manning also plays the bagpipes, and takes pointers 
from Todkill intertwined with just under a hundred 
lessons with Gillies.
Like Regan  the only other person ever to graduate 
as a bagpipe major  Todkill straddled the divide 
between conventional courses in eurhythmies, music 
theory, and solfege and bagpiping classes steeped in 
Scottish culture, like Reedmaking and History of 
Piping Families. His two courses of study were often 
complementary, he said, but sometimes attitudes 
diverged more than the subject matter itself.
Theyre so completely different in the ways theyre 
taught and the different emphases, said Todkill. 
Theres definitely a strong emphasis on the piping 
side on oral tradition and competition.
Theres a few more that have tried [the program], 
but have found the musical theory side too demand
ing, said Gillies. And a couple have failed here and 
got through over there [in the music school].
Some people had the idea that all they had to do 
was play the bagpipes, said McIntosh.
But after four years of the bagpiping program, 
Todkill is reaping the rewards of being different; while 
most of his peers are scrambling for work, his place 
was already reserved at the annual series of bagpipe 
competitions in Scotland, where he spent July, August, 
and the beginning of September. Though not in the 
same class as Gillies just yet, he did well, said Regan, 
and he has already joined the ranks of internationally 
recognized pipers.
At these events, at first, its about paying your dues 
and proving yourself, especially if youre not from 
Scotland, he said. The judges tend to give prizes to 
familiar faces, so you have to become a familiar face 
and show up for a couple of years so you become one 
of the ones they know.
And from there, he said, the car and plane trips only 
multiply. Todkills annual pilgrimage to the Highlands 
lasted two months this year; during the competition 
season, which lasts from May to November, he will 
have to make a dozen or more stops around the coun
try for concerts and competitions, and occasionally
flies to Jacksonville, Florida, to accompany the 
Highland Dancers.
He also drives to Canada twice a month to play with 
78th Fraser Highlanders near Toronto.
As a teacher, too, Todkill is a rare breed, and has the 
schedule to prove it. Since graduating this past May, he 
has launched into teaching full-time with twenty stu
dents ranging in age from nine to 50. He teaches most 
of them in his home or in the pipe band room in the 
Old Student Center.
One day a week, he travels an hour up Route 79 to 
Lazier Music Studio in Harmony, where he rents teach
ing space alongside guitarists, trombonists, and all 
manner of other instrument teachers.
Job security may be an oxymoron these days, but 
twenty students is a lot, he said, even for regular 
instruments. Life is hand-to-mouth right now, said 
Todkill, who just bought a truck and several plane tick
ets, but sharing his craft is as lucrative as it is satisfy
ing.
It seems like the bagpipes are gaining a lot of popu
larity, he said. In the past ten years, weve had 
Braveheart, Riverdance, and all that stuff, and its given 
a big boost to Scottish and Celtic culture.
And finally, the popular music scene is beginning to 
sit up and take notice, said Todkill. Joining old 
favorites like the Chieftains and Enya are emerging 
Celtic punk acts like Flogging Molly, which sometimes 
uses bagpipes, and the Dropkick Murphys, who 
brought bagpiper Joe Delaney with them on this 
springs nationwide Warped Tour.
Though they will never lose their strong ties to tra
ditional Scottish music, the pipes are finding their way 
into orchestral compositions slowly but surely, said 
Todkill.
He has piped as musical accompaniment to a dance 
at the Three Rivers Arts Festival with Attack Theatre, 
and played at this years Wats:On? Festival alongside 
the strings of Cuarteto Latinoamericano in music mas
ters student Devon Arringtons piece, the Gilead.
Locally, too, the trend is fed by the some of the same 
die-hards who keep traditional piping alive. Todkill 
and Manning knew the previous manager of Harriss 
Bar & Grill, where they were sometimes known to 
show up with a slew of instruments, including bag
pipes, for a two-man jamboree.
At the other extreme, sometimes hovering between 
vocation and indifference, are the piping students not 
yet ready for the band. Richard Yao, a first-year H&SS 
undecided major, signed up for the bagpipe lessons at 
a meeting he was dragged to by a friend because, he 
said, he couldnt think of a reason not to.
Like a small handful of undergraduates, Yao takes 
advantage of the free private lessons available to any
one who signs up for them. The lessons are paid for by 
the school.
They give you a chanter, which is a practice bag
pipe with just the pipe, and your music book, for free, 
he said. This was my first year, and I figured Fd have 
more free time now than in any other year here, so I 
thought it would be a good time to try something
new.
That bunch on Thursday morning, theyre all 
brand-new. I always ask them what attracted them to 
piping, said Gilies. The majority have said they think 
its a cool instrument. One even said he just wanted to 
annoy the neighbors.
Ive only just started, so I dont really know what Ill 
do with it, said Yao. Maybe nothing, maybe some
thing.
Beginners may take a while to make up their minds, 
but when it comes to their giant, sometimes involun
tary audience, said Todkill, the CMU community usu
ally reacts in one of two ways.
When the band practices from 7 pm to 9 pm each 
Monday night, it may draw stares or applause, but lis
teners rarely seem indifferent.
Its one of those instruments where if you like them, 
you love them, and if you dont like them, you hate 
them, he said. Theres really no middle ground.
ba.rpw sa.prl P.wtir sAaffhrtApr 
4 dpqawtp iqawteMl tqqQi ntAir
J.T. Trollman/Asst. Photo Editor
Lyric Todkill, the second of two bagpipe graduates who 
finished his degree last May, at a lesson.
THEEARN SP MBT2B9AB, S0037

---------------------------------------------------

What an American wants
Tourist cinema is the cheapest vacation in more ways than one
In most American movies, the description of Europe 
and its people tends to be not only forced but also 
humorously inaccurate. From Just Married to What a 
Girl Wants, Europeans are portrayed as uptight, judg
mental, and old-fashioned. In the world of the movies, 
Americans traveling in Europe experience a culture 
shock so intense it borders on time-warp; from watch
ing Hollywood movies one could easily get the impres
sion that outside of the U.S., electricity and indoor 
plumbing are for only the trendiest of homeowners. 
But despite the lack of modern comforts, the Europe in
movies offers a nearly undis
turbed haven, a bubble 
where time has stopped, 
giving American visitors a 
chance for transcendentalist self-reflection.
At a first glance, 
Under the Tuscan Sun 
is yet another addi
tion to this list of 
sweet but ignorant 
film titles. Diane 
Lane plays Frances 
Mayes, an American 
writer recovering from a
Courtesy of Buena Vista 
Pictures
painful divorce who decides to leave her old life behind 
and move into an old, run-down villa in Tuscany. The 
first third of the movie is a montage of familiar 
European stereotypes, including well-meaning but 
crazy Italians, lack of modern electronic devices, and 
an almost constant battle with natural forces. The 
movie gives out the message that moving to Europe 
resembles an unpleasant camping trip. However, the 
beautiful cinematography and Lanes skillful acting 
make the beginning of the movie not just bearable, but 
almost enjoyable.
Tuscan Sun is eventually redeemed by the ring of 
truth left over from Mayess autobiographical book, on 
which the movie was based. Even though many of the 
comical moments in the movie have been shamelessly 
overdone for the screen, real experiences and a gen
uine love for Italy shine through in Frances character. 
Like anyone who has survived a move to another coun
try, she opens up and embraces the new influences 
around her. She attempts to speak Italian, participates 
in local customs and events, and, most importantly, 
maintains her sense of curiosity. As the movie devel
ops, the people around her no longer seem like carica
tures, but real people with genuine emotions and wis
dom to learn from.
With a converts zeal
Director Eric Till revives the spirit of the Reformation
It was like being in Sunday school again, only this 
time with beautiful scenery, ornate costumes, and 
dashing monks brandishing flames. Luther, the biogra
phical film detailing the life of 16th century religious 
reformer Martin Luther, is a two-hour lesson in 
German history, and a finely photographed, expressive 
film.
Joseph Fiennes offers a thoughtful and energetic 
take on the famous monk, and is supported by an 
impressive and talented cast including Alfred Molina, 
Sir Peter Ustinov, and Jonathan Firth. Each brings pas
sion and occasionally comedy to a dense and heavily 
dogmatic script.
Luther tackles an impressively large subjectthe 
start of the Protestant Reformation  with a steady 
hand. The script aims to educate both historically and 
spiritually, and director Eric Till does a commendable 
job of coloring the characters with individual person
alities. Lush performances by veterans like Ustinov  
as the sometimes-comical Prince Frederick the Wise  
add color and depth.
Till's vision is anything but impartial; its clear from
the start which side of the debate the film favors. The 
Roman Catholic Church is portrayed in the opulent 
glory of its heyday, with all of the famous corruption 
and gaudy relics, while Luther is depicted as the simple 
man with the simple answer to every complex political 
dilemma.
The Catholic Church is peopled with both creepy 
and noble characters, from the greedy Pope Leo X 
(Uwe Ochsenknecht), obsessed with dressing well and 
funding his new basilica, to the sympathetic Cardinal 
Cajetan (Mathieu Carrire). Even Martin's cohorts the 
pre-Lutherans arent depicted well at times, but the 
movie's pro-Protestant bias carries the potential for 
controversy, even hundreds of years later.
Despite the daunting size of its subject matter and 
occasional lapses in pace, Luther stays interesting from 
beginning to end. Its picturesque European country
side and wonderful sets of Renaissance Germany and 
Rome enhance the sense of time and place. However, 
the many supporting characters seem to clog the film, 
and parts are disjointed and rushed: the last half-hour 
covers two decades, but theres barely a sign that years 
have passed at all.
Frances is transformed by the straightforward, 
authentic lifestyle of the people around her; thus the 
movie manages to maintain its credibility and heart. 
Unfortunately, in typical Hollywood fashion, the film 
chokes on the smarmy message it repeats over and 
over. Lanes acting and her characters transformation 
would have been enough to show that Frances not only 
survives her divorce but finds a better life. Instead of 
stopping there, the movie pours on the voice-overs, 
unnecessary plot points, and repetitive meaningful 
dialogue.
This is a pity, mostly because it spoils the sometimes 
credible acting and squashes the writings genuinely 
clever moments. Under the Tuscan Sun has an honest 
appreciation of Italian culture and its people, and is 
well-acted, stunningly filmed, and sometimes truly 
moving. Diane Lane is at her most impressive in 
moments where her character is not speaking; often, 
her expressions are enough. But its disappointing first 
third and its hackneyed message prevent it from being 
truly memorable.
ba.ra aqiAtpl sAaffhrtApr
Courtesy of R&S Entertainment
Luthers story comes out intelligible but rushed, 
especially toward the end. Some of the more famous 
events of Luthers life are shortened and casually 
stuffed in without adequate explanation. However, the 
acting, cinematography, and rich subject matter win 
out to make this epic work: Luther is not quite a mas
terpiece, but is well worth the time.
rtw xawpySl P.wtir sAaffhrtApr

THEEARN SP MBT2B9AB, S003

---------------------------------------------------

Reform school
Jack Blacks new film implores parents and teachers to leave those kids alone
Anyone who remembers being smarter than their teachers will probably love 
School of Rock. With a bubbly cast of talented kids and the juvenile humor of Jack 
Black  whose childhood shows no signs of being over  the film is a perfect exam
ple of what happens when the film industry caters directly to the kid in us all.
The protagonist, Dewey Finn (Black), an overgrown kid trying to become a rock 
star, is suddenly forced to examine his life when he is dumped and replaced by his 
band, No Vacancy. The next morning, Dewey awakes and is confronted by his 
pushover roommate, Ned Shneebly (Mike White), who had been paying Deweys 
portion of the rent for several months. Ned, pressured by his girlfriend Patty (Sarah 
Silverman), delivers an ultimatum: Dewey must find a way to pay the rent, or move 
out. Once Ned has left for work, Dewey intercepts a call for Ned, asking him to sub
stitute teach the fifth grade at the prestigious Horace Green Refectory  and, pre
dictably, devises a plan to impersonate Ned and take the job.
Battling a hangover, Dewey arrives and encounters headmistress Rosalie Mullins 
(Joan Cusack), a self-described hard-ass, who introduces him to the rigors and 
rules of Horace Green. She leads him to his classroom and his charges, a group of 
straight-laced, highly-motivated ten-year-olds (one of whom totes an Apple iBook to 
class). They seem skeptical of his capabilities as a teacher, dismayed by his troubling 
disease (alcoholism), and incredulous of his lesson plan, which revolves around 
unlimited recess.
When the kids chide him for not putting them to work, Dewey gives his first les
son, ranting about the evils of the proverbial Man.
The Man ruined the ozone, he says. The Man kidnapped Shamu from the ocean 
and put him in a tank.
When asked how to fight the Man, Dewey  known to the students as Mr. S due 
to his inability to spell Shneebly  responds, It used to be that the only way to fight 
the Man was to stick it to the Man, and the only way to stick it to the Man was 
through music. But then the Man ruined music, and invented MTV.
Dewey launches a campaign to turn the kids into a band, in order to beat No 
Vacancy at a band-battle competition and inject some meaning into his listless life 
via revenge. Though amusing, the films half-hearted attempts at tackling the subject 
of childhood usually miss the mark. But aside from its canned music-contest plot, 
there is real ingenuity to be found in the performances of the kids themselves. 
Growing up is hard to do, and the kids are the films best asset in making a case for 
a kinder, gentler learning experience.
In one of the films rare, poignant scenes, the class bands lead guitarist, Zach 
(Joey Gaydos), is caught practicing his guitar in the school parking lot by his father 
during homework time. The incident yanks Deweys heartstrings and prompts a class 
lesson on songwriting as a way to vent pent-up, pre-adolescent angst.
Eventually, the band gets grounded; Dewey is eventually called out at Parents 
Night, proved to be an impostor, and booted from the premises, even after giving a 
speech about how the children have touched his life and he has touched theirs. The 
day of the contest, however, the students sneak out of class to perform and get 
caught by the indignant crew of parents, who undergo an uncharacteristic change of 
heart.
Apparently, plausibility and originality arent always necessary to make an enter
taining film if most of the cast members are uber-talented Broadway babies with 
enough musical skill to perform much of the films soundtrack themselves. They 
were recruited via open auditions nationwide, and many had never acted before; as 
a result, in the film, much of the fifth grade seems willing to take a back seat to 
Summer (Miranda Cosgrove), the only student with prior acting experience.
Jack Black, the movies other saving grace, has finally been cast in a role that 
showcases both his musical abilities and acting talent. To the writer and lead vocal
ist of the band Tenacious D, the farcical role of Dewey Finn took serious effort.
Courtesy of Paramount Pictures
My hardest role was easily [Dewey Finnl. I had the most to say, the most lines, 
and I had to rock, he said during a recent tele-conference. Even though I didnt 
write all of the songs, I still felt responsible for them. I still had to rock.
Its a good thing Black and the kids are so watchable; without them, sub-par writ
ing and limited supporting actors would be all that was left. The poor writing was 
particularly noticeable in the sparse and inconsistent character of Headmistress 
Mullins, whose lukewarm chemistry with Dewey never came to fruition. The rest of 
the adults roles ran the gamut of bland, stodgy stereotypes of the dreaded Man.
For sheer knowledge and nostalgia, however, School of Rock does not disappoint; 
references and songs in the film include hits from Cream, The Doors, Stevie Nicks, 
Ozzy Osbourne, Led Zeppelin, and many more.
Ultimately, the movies ingenuity is enough to overcome its tired material and 
inconsistent casting. The astounding talent displayed in the kids performances 
alone is worth seeing. They did well, considering what they had to work with, and 
allowing for the fact that its hard to act cool for audiences who might be too jaded 
to appreciate it anyway.
The kids had a hard time playing in front of their parents, said Dewey after the 
bands performance. You just cant rock hard in front of your parents.
xaw dpkkiul P.wtir sAaffhrtApr
THEEARN SP MBT2B9AB, S003

---------------------------------------------------

ELCLASSIFIEDS.
OPPORTUNITIES.
www.SpecklyDoo.com - The hottest new site offering an eclectic array of handmade gift items for you, your home, and your pampered pets! New items added constantly. Right now, we have beautiful cat-themed jewelry, unusual Halloween home decor items, summer purse clearance sale, and unique back-to-school purses.
Want to make FAST money? -Get paid $3 - $10 for only 20 minutes. Sign up today to participate in this fun, easy, and quick word puzzle study. For times and information e-mail: ejcho@andrew.cmu.edu with Puzzle Study in the subject line.
Test your word skills, but more importantly, GET PAID! WINTERAND SPRING BREAK Ski & Beach Trips on sale now!
www. S unchase, comor call 1.800.SUNCHASE today!
Need an extra $36,000 a year?Vending route for sale. Cost $5000.00 Help find missing children.1.800.853.7155 or www.webdesignl99.com
Talk Therapy Research Study for Depression and Anxiety Men and women, ages 18 to 60, who are suffering with symptoms of both depression and anxiety are needed to participate in a talk therapy research study. For more details or to see if you qualify, please call the Depression Prevention Program at 412.624.4444. There are no costs associated with the study. All calls are confidential.
O'HARA TOWNSHIPGood first house in the Fox Chapel School District. Brick Cape Cod with 3 BR, 2 Baths. $160,000. For info send e-mail to manfredi@pitt.edu Awesome 2 Bedroom Townhouse Style. Newly Remodeled, Roof Top Deck, Quiet. $850.00 + Gas & Electric. Call 412.621.3028.
PEER EDUCATORS WANTEDPeer Educators needed to present sexuality education programs to teens. Good public speaking skills desired. No experience necessary. Paid training. Flexible part-time hours. Must be high school graduate. Great for college students. Possible internship opportunities. For more information, please call 412.288.2130 ext. 176 and ask for Damion or send e-mail to fhcpeereducation@hotmail.com
DepressionIs it a problem for you or someone you love? You're not alone. According to the National Institute of Mental Health, during any one-year period, 18.8 million Americans-one in 10 adults-experi- ence depression. Andrea Fagiolini, MD, is conducting a research study at the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center to examine the effectiveness of an antidepressant medication for major depression. You or a loved one may qualify if you:* are age 18 to 60+ feel depressed and anxious* are either antidepressant-free or taking an antidepressant that is not helping
As part of the study, participants will undergo psychological assessments and receive medication. The medication to be used in this study has been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for major depression. There is no cost for participating in the study. For more information, please call Traci Salopek today at 412.624.4444. All calls are confidential.
SPRING BREAK 2004! Travel with Beach Life Vacations! America's Best
Student Tour Operator! Jamaica, Cancn, Acapulco, Bahamas, Florida. SellTrips, Earn Cash, Travel Free! Hurry - Book Now!1.800.733.6347
www. beachlifevacations. com
Bed - Queen Pillowtop Matress & Box New, Never used in plastic Sell $190 Can Deliver412.292.9120
Completely healthy males ages 18-40 without medical problems and not taking any medications needed for research study in the division of Pulmonary, Allergy and Critical Care Medicine at the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center. Must have no history of diabetes, insomnia, smoking, or depression. Study will involve two 48-hour sessions in the sleep laboratory during the week. Total participation time will be approximately 4 weeks. No cost to participants; financial compensation provided. Call Heidi at 412.692.2880.
HAIR MODELS NEEDED! Male and female. All hair types. Call 412.488.8951 ext. 201 for details and upcoming casting calls.
Seeking a ghost writer to place my thoughts into words for a 
Mystery Novel. $50.00 per chapter. 12 chapters:$600.00 - 15 
chapters: $750.00. Please send resume to:
Fifthave61@yahoo.com or fax to: 412.422.4329 ATTN: Mr. Walter 
Trent. Qualifications: Creativity and the enjoyment of writing.
Spring Break '04 with Student City.com and Maxim Magazine! Get 
hooked up with Free trips, Cash and VIP Status as a Campus Rep! 
Choose from 15 of the hottest destinations. Book early for FREE 
MEALS, FREE DRINKS and 150% Lowest Price Guarantee! To 
reserve online or view our Photo Gallery, visit www.studentcity.com 
or call 1 -888-SPRINGBREAK!
FOR RENT: CMU Student Seeking CMU Female Roommate for 
Second Bedroom and Private Full Bath. Saxony Apartments 229 
N. Craig Street. FURNISHED Apartment ONLY .5 miles from 
CMU. LAUNDRY and PARKING available. Shared Utilities, CABLE 
and INTERNET. (WATER PAID). 11 Month Lease for $500/month. 
Call: 520-370-1787. E-mail: tcpaz@hotmail.com
Classified Rates 
All local ads are free at The Tartan's discretion
MAIL TO:
The Tartan, Box 1017 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15289
 Classifieds must be paid in cash, check, or 
credit card before first run date
 Non-local ad rates:
1-20 words........$10.00/wk
21-50 words........$12.00/wk
51-100 words......$15.00/wk
 Due 5 pm Thursday before publication
Horns & Halos
CXMusMiucfo roEvo csu EeyThis one is about Bush, books, and cocaine, and most of us like at least two of those things. Ive always said a good coke habit will get you through schooling at CMU, which admittedly has a lot of books involved. Make sure you vote next year, and this time lets all agree to look past the familiar face and name and not elect a warmongering psychopath. Unless he promises to share his cocaine. Yum, cocaine.
North Folk
Cn-Lpiucfo roEvo csu EeyViva libertarianism and down with eminent domain. See, the Man wants to build a damn dam, and the good folks of this town dont want Him to. They later find out that they can swim in the impending reservoir and the peasants rejoice; this according to the convicted felon who wrote Fortunate Son, the book that was recalled while it was a bestseller and provided the setup for Horns and Halos. Cocaine makes you work very fast but sometimes you jump around a bit.
The Matrix: Reloaded
CmpBucfo .oEvo csu t)To quote myself, dear Lord is this movie bad. Complete and utter failure, but all you nerdy engineers will drag yourselves from your seedy rooms long enough to see it again anyway. But you will never be Neo. You wont get the girl. And Linux makes you smell; it will not turn you into a world-dominating hacker that can fly. Did I mention cocaine makes you angry? I didnt want to be an engineer anyway. Its not too hard, its just boring. Business is equally challenging. Really, it is.
2 Fast, 2 Furious
ClctLpucfo roEvo csu EeyI saw the first one of these movies, and I thought the blond dude was too much of a Boy Scout. Vin Diesel is quite a hunk of a man though. I almost went into a fit of flaming homosexuality, but I was able to quell my curiosity by hiring several large men and well leave it at that.
Harold & Maude
ClLsucfo roEvo csu EeyThis one is not the remake. Its about the old helping the young overcome suicide through special friendship. If youre feeling suicidal, which most of us are at CMU, dont turn to an old woman for consolation. Turn to masturbation while looking at young buxom women on the Internet. And if youre female, turn to masturbation looking at young buxom women. Because we all know men are ugly.noTHEEARN SP MBT2B9AB, S003

---------------------------------------------------

Rytu hppM Hqq Rytwju ,arti QS -teM wwtu
aeriuu1 Yoshis throwing orb3 Country responsible for Nintendo6 Living plant with teeth7 Green-suited player8 Invincibility token9 Mushroom__, Princess Palace15 Mario game on the court16 Get to this Zone with a whistle20 Bowser, to Mario21 Princesss mushroom friend22 Mario's entertainment system25 Princess in the video games26 100 of these get Mario a free life!27 Find a feather to get this and fly28 In Paper Mario Bowser steals the Star _29 Transport tubes
DOWN2 Mario game on the green4 This prize gives unlimited flying powers5 Mario Kart balloon popping mode6 Mario and Luigis profession9 (with 19 down) Marios nemesis10 Barrel-throwing ape11 Bowsers stolen domain
13141718 19 
2123
2425 27
Evil Mario look-alike Pill-popping puzzle The ultimate racing cup Mario and Luigis relation (with 9 down) Marios nemesis Obstacles on Toads Turnpike Number of original NES Super Mario Bros, games_Mountain Raceway_Mario; 64-bit 2-D MarioTurns Super Mario 64 into metal
Z
O
OLO
"\/
LU
LU
ILO<
HOROSCOPES
BY DINAH WINNICK
AARIES (March 21- April 19): You will be too busy complaining about your poor bruised forehead to bother thanking the powers that be for making the old woman's eighth-story window too small to fit her grand piano through.
TAURUS (April 20 - May 20): Microwaving a frozen veggie corn dog tomorrow will crack one of your beloved, indestructible 1960s astronaut plastic plates right down the middle. In protest, you will make a vow to never eat a veggie corn dog again, which you will quickly forget due to their extreme tastiness.
GEMINI (May 21 - June 21): This weekend you will miraculously bump into your favorite NPR personality in the supermarket, calming your fears that NPR might someday switch to television with just one glance.
CANCER (June 22 - July 22): The next time it rains you will discover your newly developed superpower of being able to turn on the rain by stepping outside and turn it off by stepping inside. Don't complain. At least you've got a superpower.
LEO (July 23 - August 22): Your tiny, creepy crawly friends will soon bury themselves deep into the earth for the winter. In mournjng, you will erect a miniature monument in their honor, greatly confusing alien entomologists who visit our planet in five hundred years, after we've depleted its resources and moved on to a new one.
VIRGO (August 23 - September 22): You are not yet ready to care for a puppy. Even if it will get you a date, you simply can not yet offer it the time, love, attention, therapy, and obedience school tuition it will need to succeed in the world.
LIBRA (September 23 - October 23): Tomorrow's wind from the east will again fail to bring you a rich patron who is truly passionate about exciting recent developments in Classics and philosophy.
SCORPIO (October 24 - November 21): After years of refining your dramatic skills you will finally have.the opportunity to star in a silent, black and white, student-made short film, premiered and viewed for the last time by an enthusiastic audience of seven extremely hopeful potential filmmakers.
SAGITTARIUS (November 22 - December 21): You will finally meet someone whose love of experimental electronic music matches your own. Unfortunately, unless you take some completely out-of-character but potentially life-enhancing initiative, you both will be too confused to do more than stare at each other nervously from afar, blinking unintentionally in complex rhythmic patterns.
CAPRICORN (December 22 - January 19): Serving as the recruitment officer for your secret society will turn out to be the easiest job you've ever had, given just how good your one-member club is at keeping itself a secret.
AQUARIUS (January 20 - February 18): Look! Over there! Bummer. You missed it.
PISCES (February 19 - March 20): Naively dis- Bridget Lewis/Art stafftrusting your current source of incredibly reliable astrological information, you will begin trying to decipher patterns held within the cosmos by yourself, changing them by looking at them, and through your albeit unintentional tomfoolery, changing the course of the universe so that time and space collapse on themselves at least 32 seconds earlier than previously scheduled.
THEEARN SP MBT2B9AB, S00311

---------------------------------------------------

by Bob Rost (rrost@andrew.cmu.edu)
http://www.andrew.cmu.edu/~rrost/haroldHarold and the Other GuyduckbarWelcome to the toy 
store, little girl.you! giue me the 
neu kitchen bitch 
jereitiy oction .
f i gure. (Weekly inspiration from the ominously brooding pond
Ruperts confession of his love for Amy the Duck was quite starding for both of them. There was a long, breathless pause  each J
could almost feel the others heartbeat quicken. Amy finally emerged f v ^ 
from her state of shock. She looked away from Ruperts longing gaze J
as her eyes began to well with tears. Her initial excitement had been 
suddenly replaced by a heavy feeling of dread. Oh how she wished her dear friend 
Rupert hadnt dislosed his true feelings for her! Amy knew their relationship would 
never be the same again. Their days of carefree innocence were over. Amys secret 
would have to be revealed  the secret she had so cautiously guarded from Rupert 
for all those happy months...
i wont the kung-fu action grip barbie
TOYS
If you're quite finished fjffiiilUng up my kitchen, feel free to do the dishes
hah, i win! not only will 
he destroy enemy force3, 
but he uiill cook wy dinner 
as we 11! 11 ^can i still hove the barbie?
thank you.
TOYS
Everybodies Newsby Franz Harterhtey I've, baen mean,1 fc introduce y0o ft? wync ^^5; 
f looKs like shi Qo+- punched in fhe
BEETHOVEN WHAT IS THE VID LIKE TO KNOW WHY VMIGHT BE FUN TO MEANING OF LIFE?_______^I'M HERE___________ ^ FIGURE OUT
AND I'D LIKE TO GET v WHATEVER, TRY A PAID ^ BOOKSTORE I GUESS MOZART THE FASTER [' THIS IS DONE,THE I SOONER WE GET HOME
AND BESIDES WE'RE .DONE ANYWAY
G. Prichard 
iNaEARCa@
FRmpv coUtD TAKE"
U)|TH TMe/V>( g,l/T fijo! 
I'/M TOO /VUCrt 
Foundei i HBieJ \x AM. 7----"V11:45 by Ed Ryan rNax
\)c vfe ^
gfffffh/ pfr- Afl\*S COt\\
they thivk. -rwey c. fi fJ tust DwveOFP EW*-? MoP'J'Wfi
jEPOfcf l'M MA>y ro
SET UP AV& Sfili 
(Vlg- I M TH BfiSeWfVT.
i-uckilY -they ALSO tCFT THEIK. CegOfT ,
. CARP. -J------:^
thepe' ruey co, \=. OPP TO WORK. flC, A tu.
XF you Wirt- Oi I a<wm| X^ ltoovl) juirf pii, t'ttr/Jntn.
More Tyler & Fred at www.geocities.com/tyler_and_fred
W K -x 4 cv 5ke\eWs
x^von-Ve Km< oVcv-VT
VvH \e -Vkfc koff-e* +9 you- 6y My* 
X*}\AAC ed flto/es -feaS n/fl/- e^-M
THEEARN SP MBT2B9AB, S003

---------------------------------------------------

by Scott Adams
WE'RE OUTSOURCING 
HALF OF OUR PRO
GRAMING WORK 
TO ELBONIA TO TAKE 
ADVANTAGE OF THE 
TIME DIFFERENCE.
REMEMBER, IF 
YOU'RE NOT THE 
LEAD DOG,THE 
VIEW NEVER 
CHANGES.
ONCE AGAIN, I HAVE 
NO IDEA WHAT THEY 
WANT.
WE'LL HAND OFF OUR 
REQUIREMENTS AT 
THE END OF OUR WORK 
DAY AND GET BACK THE 
FINISHED CODE THE 
NEXT MORNING.
I'M NOT THE LEAD 
DOG, AND I HAVE 
TO LOOK AT YOUR 
FACE ALL DAY.
WHAT I WAS
ARE YOU ADMIRING
IMPLYING? YOUR
I INSIGHTFUL
I ANALOGY.LET'S PRETEND 
WE DIED.
TO BE HONEST, AFTER 
I UPDATE THE LIST, 
THERE ISN'T MUCH 
LEFT IN THE TANK.
YOU HAVE AN OLD 
LISA COMPUTER FROM 
APPLE?
EVERY MORNING I 
RANK MY TASKS 
AS A, B, OR C 
PRIORITIES.-
I WAS AN ENGINEER 
BEFORE I MOVED TO 
MARKETING.
NOW I DON'T 
EVEN REMEMBER 
HOW TO TURN ON 
MY LISA.
AND THEN YOU 
WORK ON THE 
"A* PRIORITIES 
FIRST?OLD
WIFE
IT'S A CLUMP OF BLANK 
SPACE. YOU CAN USE IT 
TO SEPARATE LONG, 
RAMBLING, UNRELATED 
SENTENCES.
NEXT WEEK I'LL 
INTRODUCE YOU TO 
A LITTLE CURVY THING 
THAT I CALL A COMMA.
I GOT YOUR THREEPAGE E-MAIL , AND I 
BROUGHT YOU A GIFT
I WAS AN ENGINEER 
BEFORE I GOT INTO 
MARKETING,SO I 
HAVE A FEW SUGGES
TIONS FOR YOUR 
NETWORK DESIGN.
GET RID OF THIS 
'CISCO" DOOHICKEY, 
WHATEVER IT IS,AND 
PUT IT IN A CATAPULT 
MADE FROM LOCAL 
TREES.
HAS IT 
BEEN A 
WHILE?
AT LEAST I 
HAVE GOOD 
SOCIAL SKILLS 
NOW, YOU 
DIPWEED.
by Stephan PastisGOAT
Pear Don Rather, 
Every ow soys yo\>'\ 
nuts. Not ne. 
I think you're
Pear Lrry King, 
titry f.ne I gcrtxh your 
pfograr^I notice they 
only show you fVoi^-rtie Waist Up.
fMs lefcJs fo ar\ oby/\t concision
PS. Sonewke^ cx 
.vspehJer
s laughing.
X sy tVis with sowea>nP,deAcebecavseone Oi^Kt when yoO were Join g story oa tok>cca
folcii trfywrh.ir.ij 
\*Mve<J AeJlo.
Pear Ted KOppel, 
ycryotvc says yo<3 a 
wi^. /Votne. X thihlfg SPtoll, furry indent.
\)er Mr tefer Jennings, 
I have listened to^co read 
this COUtVtry'i rtCWS for (<^any 
years. Yes ter Jay, I Pound oU+ 
you re CanaJiori. fhis raises 
oft obyiovs <\y?stion.
Becftosei^eE^r f\^9Yoo TotesTftaoF sm
THE RWS OK) f\ IMPORTOSE. CM\R?
I BOOGHT A CHfUR (\T TH6
firwtAirp
STORE. .
p S. Do not f>oT Mr Koppe 
of) the head.
Z3GDCZ1I
THEEARN SP MBT2B9AB, S0031

---------------------------------------------------

Comickaze:
The most magnificent minor marvels: part two
Some heroes are like the high school quarter
back, while other heroes are like the waterboy. 
Spider-Man, Iron Man, the Fantastic Four, and 
Dr. Doom are some of Marvel Comics firststring characters. But, benched on the side
lines, Marvel has many lesser-known heroes 
and villains gracing the pages of their popular 
comics.
In last weeks part one, the MVPs were picked 
from two essential categories of characters. The 
most magnificent minor Marvel male was none 
other than The Falcon, the high-flying heart of 
Harlem. The most magnificent minor Marvel 
female was the brave Brunnhilda, better known 
as the valiant viking Valkyrie.
This week, I give the play by play for two other 
featured fighters: mutant and villain. The 
importance of these categories is to be certain. 
Surely, no one can dispute the popularity of 
mutants, as seen in the pages of X-Men. And 
finally, what superhero comics would be com
plete without the supervillain?
Most Magnificent Minor Mutant: Havok
Being the kid brother of the mutant militant 
control-freak Cyclops isnt easy. In fact, its 
downright dangerous. Since his first appear
ance in the pages of X-Men #54, Havok (a.k.a. 
Alex Summers) has been used and abused by 
all manner of evil mutants.
The writers of X-Men also seem to delight in 
plunging Alex into trouble and strife. Broken 
hearts, terrorism, and comas are just a few 
buzzwords from Havoks long list of troubles.
Some readers may dispute the degree to which 
Havok is a minor Marvel. His name worked its 
way into the title of high profile mini-series 
from the late 80s, Havok and Wolverine: 
Meltdown.
Most recendy, Havok was the anchor of a late 
90s X-Men spinoff titled Mutant X. Yet, outside 
of the dedicated core of X-Men followers, Havok 
is not a household name.
Havoks mutation is his ability to project enor
mous concentric blasts of stored solar energy 
from his fists. Alexs personality makes him a 
rarity at the Xavier Institute: hes even-tem
pered and good-natured, always looking 
towards whats best for the team.
Recently, Havok was shown some loving care
by Uncanny X-Men writer Chuck Austen, who 
resurrected the character with the intention of 
making him a new leader.
Most Magnificent Minor Villain: Hydro-Man
Morrie Bench was a hapless cargo ship employ
ee who was transformed into a living being of 
water when Spider-Man knocked him into the 
ocean near an experimental energy generator.
Ok, his origin is plain foolish. But Hydro-Mans 
self-explanatory power has limitless possiblities. He can evaporate and rain back down, 
hide in your water botde, or combine with 
more water to create a tidal wave. Morrie could 
even attack you while youre sitting on the toi
let.
Looking at the spectrum of Marvel villains, 
Hydro-Man is overshadowed by classics such as 
Magneto and Doctor Octopus. Furthermore, 
Spider-Man has always had a large lesserknown rogues gallery of totemistic antagonists.
But these deficiencies could work to the advan
tage of a writer looking to develop Morrie fur
ther. With increased motivation for wanting 
Spider-Man snuffed, Hydro-Man could become 
a compelling character.
The reason for Morries minor status is no mys
tery, but Hydro-Mans potential soars above 
other villainous prospects. Any imaginative 
writer could find a thousand different ways to 
attack Spider-Man using Morrie. Visually, 
Hydro-Man is exciting since theres no need to 
contain his form as human. Recently, HydroMan appeared alongside The Shocker in the 
pages of Peter Parker: Spider-Man, terrorizing 
the webslinger.
Its a rarity that these minor Marvels should 
make a large impact in the lives of readers. But 
just because they lack the dynamic quality of 
Spider-Man or the complete corruption of Dr. 
Doom doesnt mean these minors cant become 
tomorrows starting line up.
Writers and artists have only scratched the sur
face of possibility for Havok and Hydro-Man, 
not to mention The Falcon and Valkyrie. With a 
little love and inspiration its only a matter of 
time before these lesser knowns make it to the 
covers, t-shirts, and movies of Marvel Comics.
-teM ,artwil sAaffhrtApr
Photo Courtesy of Toonzone.net
Hydro-Man is not all washed up yet.
Photo Courtesy of Comicbookresources.com
Can Havoc blast his way to fame?
14
THEEARN SP MBT2B9AB, S003

---------------------------------------------------

MONDAY 29-
TUESDAY 30.
School of Design Fall 2003 Lecture Series: Susan Rockrise, Creative Director at Intel. Kresge Theater.7 pm, reception immediately following. Free. 412.268.2828.
Is Diversity Dead? Richard Rodriguez on the Browning of America. Carnegie Lecture Hall, Oakland. 7:30 pm. 412.688.0304.
The Immigrant Workers Freedom Ride is Coming to Pittsburgh. March from the Hill House of Freedom Center, 6:45 pm; Rally at Freedom Corner, 7:15 pm; Immigrant Workers Forum at St. Benedictine Moor Church, 8 pm.
Be A Lifesaver: Donate Blood. Connan Room. 8 am to 3 pm. To make an appointment, e-mail 
ecritchl@andrew. emu. edu.
Hispanic Heritage Month: Homosexuality in a Machista Society. New House Multipurpose Room. 5:30 to 7 pm. RSVP required to ehatf@andrew.cmu.edu.
WEDNESDAY 01
For Faculty: Assessment Workshop Series: Knowing What Students Think. Office of Technology for Education. Noon to 1:20 pm. Register online at 
www.cmu.edu/teaching.
Hispanic Heritage Month: Salsa Film Festival. Baker Hall 235B. 7 to 9:30 pm.
Christina Romanosky. Skibo Coffeehouse. 8 to 10 pm.
Professional Development Series: Graduate School Testing Information. Connan Room. 4:30 to 5:30 pm.
THURSDAY 02.
School of Art Lectures: Mary Hood. McConomy Auditorium. 5 pm.
School of Drama preview: Measure for Measure." Chosky Theater. 412.268.2407.
Professional Development Series: How to Obtain Fellowships and Graduate School Scholarships. Rangos 1. 4:30 to 5:30 pm.
FRIDAY 03.
Hispanic Heritage Month: imAge and idenTity by Jonathan Martofel. University Center Gallery. Opening Reception 3 to 5 pm. Through October 8.
Professional Development Series: Bound for Graduate School? Strategies to Gain Admission to Highly Competitive Graduate Programs. Donald Asher. McConomy Auditorium. 5 to 6 pm. Information reception at 6 pm.
CollegeCity Weekend: Hi-Carb and 2 The X-Treme. Eat pasta and listen to music at Sbarros in Fifth Avenue Palace for $8, 6 to 8:30 pm. Biking, blading and wall climbing downtown on Penn Avenue.
School of Drama: Measure for Measure. Chosky Theater. Through October 11. 412.268.2407.
SATURDAY 04.
Miroslav: Chalk Outline Party. Gooskis, 3117 Brereton Street, Polish Hills. 412.681.1658. www.chalkoutlineparty.com and www.miroslavtheband.com.
Christine Lavin. Rosebud Caf, 1600 Smallman Street, Strip District. 8 pm. Over 21 show. 412.261.2232.
Jonny Lang: Long Time Cornin Tour. Byham Theater. 7:30 pm. All seats reserved. 412.456.6666. www.tickets.com.
CollegeCity Weekend. Dragon boat racing, kayaks, and shopping from noon to 5 pm.
CollegeCity and American Eagle Outfitters present Unloaded.Indie rock, comedy, and more. 5 pm. Free with $5 access pass-wearing your CollegeCity Unloaded T-shirt from AEO, available for purchase at the Get Connected Fair, Wean Commons, and the Student Activities Office.
Hispanic Heritage Month: SALSA Soccer Tournament.Intramural Field. 12 to 3 pm. E-mail kpg@andrew.cmu.edu to participate.
SUNDAY 05.
Delilah and Sirocco's East Coast Belly Dance Caravan Tour: Belly Dance Workshop. Yoga Sadhana Studio, 1113 E. Carson Street (South Side). 3 to 6 pm. $55. For more information, e-mail Debra Antantis at raihanapgh@yahoo.com.
Delilah and Sirocco's East Coast Belly Dance Caravan Tour: Show. Yoga Sadhana Studio, 1113 E. Carson Street (Southside). 7:30 to 9 pm. $15, limited seating. For more information, e-mail Debra Antantis at 
raihanapgh@yahoo.com.
ONGOING
Salsa Lessons with Linda Danza. Tuesdays from 8 to 9 pm and 9:30 to 10:30 pm. UC Aerobics Room. $30 for CMU, $35 for others. To sign up, contact colohan@cmu.edu.
Habla Conmigo: Tertulias de Habla Hispana. Tuesdays with Veronica, 4 to 6 pm, Skibo Coffeehouse; Wednesdays with Alberto, 4 to 6 pm, BH235A; Thursdays with WenShu, 6 to8 pm, Porter Hall 226B.
Alpha. UC Chapel. Every Thursday at 7:30 pm.
AB Films Meeting. Plaid Room (located above Skibo Coffeehouse). Every Monday at 5:30 pm.
Roger Barbour Jazz Quartet: Roger Barbour - trumpet, Horace Turner - keyboard, Raynard Ford - saxophone and flute, John Smith - drums. Crawford Grill, 2141 Wylie Avenue. Every Friday from 6 to 8 pm. 412.471.1565.
Jun-Nguyen-Hatsushiba - Matrix 2003. Regina Gouger Miller Gallery. Tuesday - Sunday, 11:30 am to 5 pm. Through October 12. 412.268.3618.
Lutheran Student Fellowship. First Trinity Evangelical- Lutheran Church, 535 N. Neville Street. Every Sunday at 11 am.
Sahaja Yoga Meditation. Doherty Hall 1117. 8 to 9 pm. Free.VOX POPULI.
THE OFFICIAL VOICE 
OF THE OFFICIAL VOICE.
SUBMIT TO VOX POPULI. send your word junk to 
tartan@andrew. emu. edu
AThats horrible! /f
ejaculated Rlex.
Ryp
of fonqwa/fii' CHILDREN
-ppn
Eppr
SNUGGLE US SOME TOAST.
*kill vourself
geltfcart
Whoool
>?
X;
Rodky Moumtain oysters? ^ 
lliose things arent really 
oysters. Well just leave it 
at that
THEEARN SP MBT2B9AB, S0031

---------------------------------------------------

Jeff Cullers/Photo EditorSong of myself: Last weekends Frame exhibit, Identity, featured works on the subject by jun
ior art majors Kate Dowd and Jeffrey Songco.
