PILLBOX
Carnegie Mellons student newspaper since 1906
A CaPittsburgh showcases CMU a cappella groups  B9
FORUMSCITECH
Physicists at the forefront of quantum computing  A4University blue light phone system needs an update  A6
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
News Co-Editor
Win or lose, you represent 
the best that staff has to offer, 
and your contributions are an 
example for staff members 
who serve day in and day out 
to improve our campus community, said John Lanyon, 
chair of staff council, at the 
19th annual Andy Awards. 
The ceremony, which was 
held in McConomy Auditorium, honors Carnegie Mellon 
faculty and staff for their contributions to the university.
President Subra Suresh began the ceremony by talking 
about the importance of outstanding faculty and staff to 
the university experience. 
[Students] get recognition  they get a degree, they 
get awards. But, with respect 
to staff, there isnt recognition 
for the powerful work they do 
behind the scenes, as perhaps 
there should be. And this is 
why we acknowledge, and 
recognize, and celebrate people who do so much behind 
the scenes, Suresh said.
The awards, held last 
Thursday, were given in a variety of categories. The ?rst 
awards were given by Lanyon 
for staff service; 28 faculty 
and staff members were honored for 30 years of service, 
and 10 were recognized for 
35 years. Two faculty and staff 
members  Marian Kovalchik, assistant department 
head for ?nance for electrical 
and computer engineering, 
and Alan Guisewite, operations assistant at the Robotics 
Institute  were recognized 
for 40 years of service to Carnegie Mellon.
University provost and H. 
John Heinz III professor of 
economics and public policy 
Mark Kamlet spoke next. Kamlet credited Carnegie Mellons progress as an institution 
over the last few decades to its 
dedicated staff and faculty. 
Ive often said that I cant 
think of another institution of 
higher education in the U.S. 
thats come as far, as fast as 
CMU has. And, indeed, we 
thetartan.org
@thetartan
October 14, 2013
Volume 108, Issue 8
Andy Awards honor faculty and staff
Kate Groschner/Photo Editor
Members of the TSB Marketing and Communications Team won the Andy Award for Outstanding innovation. 
See AWARDS, A3
Paint vandalism in Doherty leads to stricter Fence rules
NOL UM
News Co-Editor
Multicolored dribbles of 
paint up the steps and down 
the hallway of Doherty Hall 
have caused the reinforcement of rules regarding the 
Fence.
Last Thursday, the student 
government Executive Committee sent out an email to the 
campus community outlining 
existing rules about the use of 
paint in the areas surrounding the Fence.
The rules for the Fence, 
according to university guidelines, include using only 
paintbrushes, keeping paint 
and paint materials only 
within the gravel area surrounding the Fence, removing 
paint supplies after ?nishing 
painting, utilizing the sink in 
the janitors closet in Doherty 
Hall instead of the ?rst ?oor 
bathroom sinks to clean 
paintbrushes, and not dripping paint on the steps outside or inside Doherty Hall.
The paint smudges, which 
have been a recurring issue 
since last spring, are technically considered campus vandalism. Additionally, such 
vandalism, especially paint 
on the steps and inside of 
Doherty Hall, may be a costly 
?x. 
Sophomore mechanical 
engineering major Anna Mirabella, who took the Fence 
with the Kappa Alpha Theta 
pledge class, said that she 
witnessed paint dribbles in 
Doherty, speci?cally in the 
?rst ?oor bathroom. It was 
de?nitely a problem before, 
but I think that this is a very 
simple change that people can 
make that will help keep our 
school cleaner. Paint isnt always to easy to clean up, so it 
also wasnt fair to make other 
people clean up after the students mess.
Student government has 
rarely found reason in the 
past to enforce the rules for 
the Fence, according to student body president Lindsay 
MacGillivray.
In the past we had not 
set any speci?c guidelines because we felt it was something 
that as a campus, we shared 
and held together, but at the 
same time, if students are 
damaging campus property, 
something needs to be done, 
she said.
The rules regarding the 
Fence were purposely written 
vaguely because of the sense 
that the Fence is not owned 
by the university, but by the 
student body as a whole.
The responsibility and 
the privileges of the Fence are 
shared by all students on campus and so when people felt 
like they needed to complain 
about it was student government, but really we dont have 
any set jurisdiction over it, 
MacGillivray said.
We wanted to have a more 
clear de?nition of what the 
rules meant. We took what 
already existed, and put it in 
more speci?c terms, MacGillivray continued.
Complaints from various 
faculty members brought student governments attention 
to the vandalism, and student 
government is in the process 
of implementing action.
In order to enforce better care of campus property 
and the Fence, student government has issued signs, 
which are currently posted 
in Doherty and on the tables 
near the Fence, reminding 
students to be careful about 
dripping paint.
The student government 
Executive Committee is also 
putting out plastic bags by the 
Fence to alleviate the problem of dripping paint inside 
Doherty as students are carrying their paintbrushes to 
the sink for washing. The last 
component of the enforcement of these rules includes 
a ?ne, which will be charged 
against the organizations that 
are found to have dripped 
paint and vandalized campus 
property.
According to MacGillivray, 
student government will be 
?exible in charging organizations for the ?nes, however, 
she hopes that the action taken to prevent such vandalism 
will eliminate the issue.
Sophomore information 
systems major Nathan Oh 
said that even though he is 
involved with Asian Students 
Association and Sigma Alpha 
Epsilon  and has painted 
the Fence multiple times  
he was unaware of the Fence 
painting rules. I didnt know 
that dripping paint outside 
of the Fence area was considered vandalism, so I think 
it was a good ?rst step that 
student government sent out 
that email, because now I and 
others know, and will be more 
careful.
Nol Um/News Co-Editor
Students wishing to wash paintbrushes should do so in the janitors closet in Doherty Hall. 
Online for-credit courses available to CMU students
CHRIS GALVIN
Staffwriter
Semester Online, which 
debuted at Carnegie Mellon 
this semester, offers students 
an opportunity to gain credit 
from online courses at other 
universities.
Semester Online describes 
itself as a ?rst-of-its-kind 
program offering rigorous, 
for-credit online courses from 
prestigious colleges and universities to top undergraduate students worldwide. The 
program began with over 100 
students in 10 courses across 
the consortium, and has expanded to 19 courses for the 
coming spring semester.
Semester Online courses 
are provided to Carnegie 
Mellon students by consortium partner schools, such 
as Boston College, Brandeis 
University, Emory University, 
Northwestern University, the 
University of North Carolina 
at Chapel Hill, the University 
of Notre Dame, Wake Forest 
University, and Washington 
University in St. Louis, all of 
which were ranked in the top 
35 of U.S. News & World Reports annual Best Colleges list 
for 2014.
Courses consist of weekly 
live classes via webcam and 
online chats, capped at 20 students, with traditional class 
structure  including discussions, slides, and quizzes. 
These courses are designed 
to be equivalent to on-campus 
classes and are taught by the 
same professors.
Despite calling in from 
all different places across the 
country, it has been really 
easy to interact and connect 
with the professors and other 
students, said Northwestern 
journalism major Netta-Lee 
Lax, according to Semester 
Online. The class Im in only 
has three other students, 
which has made the learning 
process more ful?lling for me 
personally.
All courses from Semester 
Online are worth three credits, which are accepted by 
Carnegie Mellon. The university offering the course will 
issue the credit, provided that 
the student has completed the 
course with a passing grade, 
and the student will receive 
an of?cial transcript from that 
university.
The expansion of Semester Onlines course offerings 
demonstrates the speed at 
which the program is growing, as we provide more 
students the opportunity to 
participate in this unique 
academic experience, said 
Andrew Hermalyn, executive 
vice president and general 
manager of Semester Online.
Courses for the spring 
2014 semester include How to 
Rule the World from Boston 
College, Baseball and American Culture from Emory University, Electronics Out of 
the Box from Northwestern 
University, and Critical Earth 
Issues from Washington University in St. Louis.
Semester Online gives students the opportunity to take 
courses that they otherwise 
would not be able to, if the 
desired course is not taught 
at their university, or if they 
cant be on campus due to a 
full-time job or internship.
Students will no longer 
grapple with the dilemma 
of sacri?cing an internship 
or volunteer opportunity to 
take a required course, wrote 
Northwestern senior William McLaughlin in The Daily 
Northwestern.
Many students ?nd the 
weekly classes easier to ?t 
into a busy schedule, and 
since students can attend 
class anywhere with Internet 
access, they can take courses 
while studying abroad or at 
home over the summer.
According to USA Today, 
Emory University senior and 
Semester Online student 
Nenad Tadic said, In our 
increasingly busy lives, we 
want to pursue as many opportunities as we can without 
having their qualities devalued and online courses allow 
us to do that.
The fact is, everyone is 
very bright and really wants 
to be there. And the ?exibility is awesome. Its de?nitely 
something Id recommend to 
other students, Tadic said.
Semester Online is a conKelsey Scott/Operations Manager
App allows students to request services
ALVIN MATTHEW
Staffwriter
Three Carnegie Mellon 
graduates recently created 
MeWants, an app that allows 
students to post requests 
for services they would like 
completed. Carnegie Mellon 
students, many without cars, 
often run into trouble when 
needing to obtain certain materials, furniture, groceries or 
supplies.
Former Carnegie Mellon 
graduate students Mohit Bijlani (HNZ 07) and Mikhil 
Innani (HNZ 11), along with 
SUNY Buffalo alumna Chaitanya Mehta (HNZ 11), created MeWants in order to alleviate some of these burdens. 
The idea for the startup was 
conceived while the three 
were at Carnegie Mellon and 
it won the Keith Block Entrepreneurship Challenge offered by the university.
MeWants is an outsourcing site that allows people to 
outsource their tasks to the 
community. Someone logs in, 
posts a task, and can make it 
visible for something like a 
510 mile radius for the speci?c period. Its like a Craigslist, but students have an 
inherent trust with others in 
the student community, Bijlani said.
According its website, 
MeWants lets you post tasks 
youd like completed, as well 
as the price youre willing to 
pay for the service, to a willing audience in your area.
A person who wants to get 
their groceries picked up, receive help with moving or getting to an airport would log 
into the app and pay another 
user to help them. While currently focusing on Carnegie 
Mellons student body, MeWants hopes to expand to the 
University of Pittsburgh and 
beyond in the future.
Bijlani feels the app is appealing for students because 
it does not charge extra for 
its services. The app itself 
is free, but we offer cash and 
Paypal options for payment, 
he said. 
See APP, A3
See ONLINE, A3

---------------------------------------------------

STUDENT SENATE MEETING MINUTES
A2  thetartan.org/news The Tartan  October 14, 2013
Corrections & Clari?cations
In the article University Center plans to expand by fall 
2016 in the Sept. 16 issue of The Tartan, the University 
Center expansion should begin in 2014, and should 
tentatively be complete by the 201516 academic year, 
not fall 2016.
If you would like to submit a correction or clari?cation, 
please email The Tartan at news@thetartan.org or 
editor@thetartan.org with your inquiry, as well as the 
date of the issue and the name of the article. We will 
print the correction or clari?cation in the next print 
issue and publish it online.
NEWS IN BRIEFALLIES celebrates National Coming Out Day
WEATHER
Racing Trailer Theft
 Oct. 4, 2013
University Police are currently investigating the theft 
of a Carnegie Mellon racing 
trailer. The trailer was initially 
reported missing, and is now 
con?rmed to be stolen. This 
investigation is ongoing.
Suspicious Male
Oct. 4, 2013
University Police were 
summoned to the area of 
Forbes and Morewood avenues in relation to a suspicious male reported to be 
intoxicated and wandering 
the area. Police were initially 
unable to locate him until a 
Carnegie Mellon security of?cer reported a male matching the given description lying 
on a bench near Posner Hall. 
University Police summoned 
city medics to the scene after 
con?rming that the male was 
overly intoxicated.
Open Container 
Violations
Oct. 5, 2013
University Police cited 
two students for violation of 
Pittsburghs open container 
ordinance. The students were 
found drinking bottles of alcohol near the tennis courts. The 
ordinance prohibits carrying 
open containers of alcohol in 
public without proper licensing. The students alcohol was 
con?scated and disposed of by 
University Police.
Furnishing Alcohol to 
Minors
Oct. 5, 2013
Two Carnegie Mellon students are being charged for 
furnishing underage students 
with alcohol. One of the underage student was later treated by CMU EMS in an incident 
in which alcohol amnesty 
applied.
Laptop Theft
Oct. 8, 2013
A Carnegie Mellon student 
reported that his laptop was 
stolen between 6-7 p.m. from 
a second ?oor exercise room 
in the University Center. The 
laptop was left unattended 
while the student exercised. 
This investigation is ongoing.
Suspicious Person 
Oct. 8, 2013
Two University Police of?cers responded to a call for 
a suspicious male just past 6 
p.m. The male was described 
as being six feet tall, having a 
fair complexion, wearing baggy jeans and a dark t-shirt. Of?cers could not ?nd the male.
Possession of False 
Identi?cation
Oct. 11, 2013
A Carnegie Mellon police 
of?cer recovered a wallet 
near Devon Road. The of?-
cer found that the owner was 
in possession of a false ID 
card in addition to an illegal 
substance. The owner of the 
wallet was con?rmed to be a 
Carnegie Mellon student, and 
will be charged.
Campus Crime & Incident Reports
ALLIES, Carnegie Mellons LGBTQ support organization, took the Fence last Thursday night for National Coming Out Day on Friday. Throughout the 
day, members of ALLIES told their own and others stories of coming out. 
Source: www.weather.com
FEATURE PHOTO
Carnegie Mellons Pi Kappa Alpha (PiKA) Beta Sigma 
chapter hosted the fourth annual Matthew Tembo Memorial Soccer Tournament on 
Sunday, with proceeds going 
to Gateway Rehabilitation 
Center. 
Gateway Rehab  a nonpro?t organization  looks 
to promote the education, 
treatment, prevention, and 
research of alcoholism and 
substance abuse.
Tembo died of alcohol 
poisoning in 2010. He was 
an avid soccer player and a 
social member of Carnegie 
Mellons campus.
Carnegie Mellon, the 
University of Pittsburgh, 
Duquesne University, and 
nearby clubs sent over 20 
teams to the tournament this 
year, which, according to a 
university press release on 
the topic, included sponsors 
such as Chipotle Mexican 
Grill, Quiznos, Brueggers, 
the Pittsburgh Riverhounds, 
Startup Incinerator, and 
Gateway Rehab.
Richard Foster, Gateway 
Rehabs executive vice president of treatment programs, 
and PiKAs Kyle Woltersdorf 
gave opening remarks at the 
tournament.
PiKA holds memorial soccer tournament
History department debuts lecture series
Carnegie Mellons department of history recently announced that it is launching 
a year-long lecture series to 
celebrate the departments 
long-time focus on environmental history. The history 
department has excelled for 
several decades in understanding the impacts that 
the human world has on 
urban environments, especially through the work of 
Joel Tarr, a Richard S. Caliguiri professor of history and 
policy.
In 2008, Tarr was awarded the Society for the History 
of Technologys Leonardo da 
Vinci Medal. This medal goes 
to someone who has made 
an outstanding contribution 
to the history of technology 
through research, teaching, 
publication, and other activities.
People often do not think 
about how the environment 
links to city environments, 
and we have been fortunate 
to have extremely talented 
faculty working in this dynamic area, said Caroline 
Acker, head of the history 
department, in a university 
press release.
Because of recent ?ooding incidents and ongoing issues like climate change and 
global warming, the ?eld is 
on the rise. More graduate 
students are coming to Carnegie Mellon to study environmental history, which is 
very encouraging because it 
is critical to look at the past.
Kate Brown, associate 
professor of history at the 
University of Maryland, will 
open the lecture series with 
a talk about the presence 
of radioactive isotopes in 
the bodies of nuclear plant 
workers. Brown will discuss 
and explain the effects of 
transforming the human 
body into a radioactive storage site. 
Brown will argue that a 
?xation on sequestered archives and environmental 
monitoring has hindered a 
real understanding of the 
effect of turning human bodies into radioactive storage 
sites. Browns lecture is titled 
A Sinking Feeling: The Human Body as the Ultimate 
Radioactive Storage Site, 
and will debut Thursday, 
Oct. 17 at 4:30 p.m.
Committee ReportsDiscipline and Academic Review
Special Allocation: Om
FRIDAY
High / Low
57 / 45
SATURDAY
High / Low
54 / 40
SUNDAY
High / Low
55 / 35
TUESDAY
High / Low
72 / 59
WEDNESDAY
High / Low
64 / 50
THURSDAY
High / Low
59 / 47
The ?rst order of business 
on the Senate agenda this 
week was committee reports. 
The Communications Committee presented the ?nalized 
poster for Senate Week while 
Campus Life discussed its 
plans to publicly display the 
Deans List and host a gallery 
crawl in mid-November.
The Academic Affairs 
Committee talked about midsemester teaching assistant 
evaluations as well as the upcoming mini course Thrive@
CMU, designed to address 
issues with Carnegie Mellon 
stress culture.
The Finance Committee 
summarized Senates budget 
for special allocations and 
discussed Senates current 
spending rate.
Compiled by
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
Compiled by
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
Joanna Dickert, assistant 
director of the of?ce of the 
dean of student affairs, presented the list of new members for the University Disciplinary Council and Academic 
Review Board. Both the council and the board draw from 
a shared pool of candidates 
across colleges and departments and address issues of 
academic integrity and other 
issues within the university.
Special Allocation: Alpha Chi Omega
Senate voted to allocate 
$300 to Alpha Chi Omega for 
its Walk a Mile event, slated 
for Oct. 23. Alpha Chi Omega 
requested funds to provide refreshments to walkers as well 
as pay the registration fee for 
the national Walk a Mile organization. During the event, 
men will walk a mile in womens shoes to raise awareness 
of sexual assault and rape culture.
Senate voted to allocate 
$1,000 to Om, Carnegie Mellons organization for Indian 
spirituality and culture, to reimburse them for the materials 
and other costs related to the 
mural painted in Squirrel Hill 
last week. The mural, which is 
located on the side of Coriander 
restaurant in Squirrel Hill, honors Mahatma Gandhi, whose 
birthday is Oct. 2.
Maryyann Landlord/Junior Photographer
Fringe was allocated 
$2,580 for damages to its 
buggy shop and buggy. The 
damage was caused by a burst 
pipe, which ?ooded the buggy 
shop during a rainstorm. Senate allocated the money to 
replace damaged materials as 
well as repair a buggy that was 
ruined during the ?ood.
Special Allocation: Fringe

---------------------------------------------------

We had students who 
have had similar issues, and 
we would willingly help people move out for a quick buck. 
The idea started there.... We 
didnt really think about the 
monetary value, and we dont 
want the app to have annoying ads. So were mostly using 
Paypal [to earn money], he 
continued.
For those hoping to create a startup, Bijlani offered 
some advice. He particularly 
stressed the importance of 
networking. I always wanted to create a startup, and I 
worked on my ?rst startup 
with a friend from India.
Innani originally approached Bijlani for advice, 
but after demonstrating passion for the project, things 
took off from there. You 
should have an idea that you 
want to put 10 years of your 
life into, and having ?nancial 
stability helps. You can also 
work for a startup, Bijlani 
said.
Bijlani feels the entrepreneurial atmosphere at Carnegie Mellon, while imperfect, 
is constantly improving. The 
focus is very much on getting jobs, but I know there 
has been a concerted effort 
by the university to build a 
connection between Tepper 
and the [computer science] 
community. There needs to 
be that push from the university to have students understand its okay to fail and have 
times when these things dont 
work.
Some students are interested in the emergence of 
these campus-focused startup 
companies. 
Sarabeth Perry, sophomore global studies major, 
thinks that the idea behind 
MeWants is appealing. Its 
probably a better thing than 
CraigsList because you know 
the people [in the community]. It sounds like it could be 
messy, but it could also work, 
she said.
In the past, students have 
often turned to Facebook for 
secondhand goods. Facebook 
pages for students of different 
years in the university have 
been used to advertise and 
sell goods ranging from tickets, phones, Megabus credits, 
and textbooks. This past year, 
another page, For Sale @ 
CMU was created to more directly offer students a chance 
to buy goods for lower prices 
from peers who are looking to 
unload their unwanted items. 
As of Sunday, Oct. 13 there 
were 823 members listed in 
the group, with things like 
food containers, longboards, 
books and hair dryers being bought and sold. MeWants hopes to cater to this 
audience.
Mehta and Innani are currently working on the app 
among other projects, while 
Bijlani is working on it full 
time and talking to investors.
have evolved from a highly regional institution to one with 
such a national and international stature, Kamlet said.
Next, Kamlet announced 
the recipient of the Andy 
Award for Outstanding Dedication. According to the Andy 
Awards website, this award 
is meant for a faculty or staff 
member who takes great 
pride in their work and has 
an unyielding commitment 
to quality performance.
The Outstanding Dedication award was given to Anne 
Witchner Levin (DC 73), assistant dean of student affairs 
and and director of orientation and ?rst-year programs.
I was honored to be nominated and very moved to win 
the Andy Award, especially 
because the category had 
something close to 20 nominations, Witchner said via 
email. 
At CMU, I have had innumerable unique opportunities 
to work with students on some 
of the best programs and experiences.... I also had the opportunity to help create new 
programs with exceptional 
students and colleagues.
The next Andy Award was 
for Outstanding Commitment 
to Students. 
This award honors a 
staff or faculty member who 
is,dedicated to providing 
guidance and assistance to 
the students of the university.
This award was given to 
Helen Wang (DC 99), director of student life for ?rst-year 
houses and Morewood E-tower housefellow. 
Im deeply humbled, 
quite in shock and feeling so 
fortunate to be a part of this 
generous community.   I am 
so touched by the time and 
generosity of spirit that was 
put into this nomination by 
people that I care so deeply 
about, Wang said in an email. 
 The Andy Award for Outstanding Innovation was 
given to the Tepper School 
of Business (TSB) Marketing 
and Communications Team, 
which includes Stephanie 
Armbruster (A 06), Karen 
Boucher, Mark Burd, Barbara 
Donehue, Deb Lantz (HSS 
06), Susan Limoncelli, Joey 
Mancuso, and Martha Sproul.
The Marketing and Communications Team, according 
to its website, helps those in 
the Tepper School of Business 
and others across the university with brand projection and 
public relations. 
The Outstanding Innovation Andy Award recognizes 
those who have developed 
new approaches, methods 
and systems to improve organizational effectiveness, according to the Andy Awards 
website.
The next Andy Award was 
for Outstanding Culture. This 
award was given to Samuel 
Boyer, senior director of organizational management within the College of Engineering. 
James H. Garrett, Jr., 
Thomas Lord professor of 
engineering and dean of the 
College of Engineering, nominated Boyer because he is, 
passionate about providing 
staff with opportunities to 
grow their skills in an effort 
to retain and recruit high-performing staff members.
The Andy Award for Outstanding University Citizenship was awarded to Romayne Botti, associate dean 
of ?nance and operations for 
the College of Engineering.
October 14, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/news  A3
 Led the transformation from Carnegie Technical Schools to the Carnegie Institute of Technology (CIT) 
 Established the Margaret Morrison Carnegie College, a women's college named for Andrew Carnegie's mother
 Deepened the schools academic and research offerings
 Led several vast improvements to the campus physical appearance
Robert E. Doherty 
1936  1950Thomas S. Baker
1922  1935
John Christian Warner
1950  1965
H. Guyford Stever
1965  1972
Arthur A. Hamerschlag
1903  1922Richard M. Cyert
1972  1990
Robert Mehrabian
1990  1997Jared L. Cohon
1997  2013
Subra Suresh
2013
JOIN THE CELEBRATION
NOVEMBER 14  15
www.cmu.edu/suresh-inauguration
PRESIDENTIAL HIGHLIGHTS
#CMUsuresh
Awards honor staff dedication
AWARDS, from A1
Kate Groschner/Photo Editor
University provost Mark Kamlet (left) congratulates Mark Burd (right), a member of the TSB Marketing and 
Communications Team, which won the Andy Award for Outstanding Innovation. 
CMU grads offer alternative option to Craigslist with app
Courtesy of Mohit Bijlani
Mohit Bijlani, one of the creators of the MeWants app. 
APP, from A1
venient option because its 
easy to ?t into your schedule, 
especially for busy students 
like athletes, said Gary DiLisio, academic advisor for the 
Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences. But 
I think for the average Carnegie Mellon student its not 
enough; students here care 
about learning and want 
more interaction than online 
classes can provide.
To apply for a course in 
the spring 2014 semester, students must be enrolled in a 
regionally accredited institution, in good academic standing, and apply by Dec. 23. 
Admission is limited, and students are selected based on 
their academic achievement 
and strength of transcript, 
although those who apply to 
Semester Online by Nov. 22 
are preferred. To learn more 
about Semester Online, visit 
http://semesteronline.org/.
ONLINE, from A1Online courses provide ?exibility

---------------------------------------------------

A4  thetartan.org/scitech The Tartan  October 14, 2013
CMU physicists on the frontier of quantum computing
SONIA KATHARANI-KHAN
Staffwriter
Robert Grif?ths is passionate about his position as 
a physicist. Hes willing to explain his complicated research 
on quantum cryptography, 
which seems to always be on 
his mind, to anyone willing to 
listen. As he sat in his cluttered 
of?ce, he even joked about 
what would happen if Edward 
Snowden were to be within 
a quantum cryptographic 
scheme.
Grif?ths, the Otto Stern 
University Professor of Physics, established the Quantum 
Theory Group at Carnegie 
Mellon in 1984. Grif?ths still 
heads the group with two 
members: Vikesh Siddhu and 
Dan Stahlke, both Ph.D. candidates in physics. The groups 
research focuses on the foundations of quantum theory, as 
well as its potential applications, including quantum computing and information.
Quantum computing vs. 
classical computing
As the name suggests, 
quantum computing is the development of computer technology based on the principles 
of quantum physics. Although 
primarily theoretical at present, quantum computing is a 
compelling ?eld because its 
utilization of quantum bits 
(qubits) rather than classical 
bits allows for the development of quantum computers, 
which in certain areas far surpass the limitations of todays 
computers.
The bits that todays computers use to transmit and 
store information can only 
hold one of two values  often 
explained with the numerals 0 
and 1  and exist in one distinct physical state. Qubits, on 
the other hand, are represented by the spins of elementary 
particles, which can exist in 
multiple states simultaneously 
until measured. This property, known as superposition, 
allows a quantum computer 
with n qubits to perform 2n 
calculations at the same time, 
while a classical computer 
with the same amount of bits 
can perform only n. A second property of qubits, known 
as entanglement, allows them 
to be very strongly correlated 
at extremely large distances.
More speci?cally, qubits 
take on distinct spins. Two 
entangled qubits have opposite spins to one another and 
can remain in unison even if 
they are at opposite ends of 
the universe. Entanglement 
allows for faster transportation of information using qubits rather than classical bits.
If a quantum computer 
were developed based on 
these properties, however, 
it would not bring much improvement to ordinary computer tasks involving simple 
calculations. So, where exactly does the magic of quantum 
computers lie? It begins where 
the scope of todays computers ends. The potential of 
quantum computing was realized with the development of 
Shors algorithm for the prime 
factorization of long numbers.
Though todays computer 
cannot perform such factorization, quantum computers 
could implement Shors algorithm and solve problems 
which would otherwise take 
todays most powerful supercomputers hundreds of millions of years to solve. The 
Quantum Theory Group contributed a major simpli?cation 
in the ?nal step of the algorithm in a proposal by Grif?ths 
and Ph.D. student Chi-Sheng 
Niu in 1996.
Current limitations in 
quantum computing
Thus far, researchers have 
some understanding of how 
quantum particles behave, 
and how they could lead to 
more ef?cient technology. 
This has not yet translated, 
however, to a full understanding of how quantum particles 
may come together to create a 
system of information.
Classical information in 
general we know everything 
about. The question is, what 
is the corresponding quantum counterpart? You would 
think it would be something 
measured in qubits, but nobody really knows, Grif?ths 
explained.
The groups research expands on the understanding 
of what quantum information really is and how it would 
function, and investigates the 
scope of the computational 
methods that can be developed by harnessing the properties of quantum particles.
Grif?thss take on the difference between quantum and 
classical information is analogous to the world of classical 
information being a world of 
black and white, and that of 
quantum information being a 
world of colors.
The group has been working toward understanding the 
?ow of information through 
quantum circuits, and studying some of the limits to copying quantum information.
A second obstacle to developing physical quantum computers is that there are not yet 
methods to harness the different manipulations of quantum 
particles  such as superposition and entanglement  long 
enough to create viable technology utilizing them.
At the moment we dont 
have an appropriate physical 
system that can perform quantum computing on the large 
scale. There are lot of physical 
systems that provide a testbed 
for these quantum computing 
ideas, but we have not found 
a way to manage large bits of 
information on them, Siddhu 
said.
The dif?culty stems from 
a property known as decoherence. If one tries to directly 
measure the value of a qubit, 
it will cease to exist in superposition, and assume one 
value just like a classical bit. 
This would render a system of 
qubits no better than a classical one. A potential solution 
is to use the strong correlation between entangled qubits 
to gather information about 
pairs of qubits, but entanglement is also dif?cult to maintain as the number of qubits 
increases.
The group has been researching how entanglement 
can lead to nearly instant 
transmission of information 
in order to better understand 
decoherence in informationtheoretic terms and strengthen the potential applications 
of quantum computing.
Quantum computing and 
cryptography
So, amongst all the potential applications that arise 
from the properties of quantum particles, has there been 
any headway in making quantum computing practical? 
According to Grif?ths, quantum cryptography  or data 
security schemes based on 
quantum computing  is the 
aspect of quantum computing 
closest to commercialization 
or practical use.
All the cryptographic systems that are employed to 
send simple things like e-mails 
or to authorize complex things 
like transfer of money through 
banks depend on the fact that 
classical computers cannot 
factorize primes ef?ciently, 
Siddhu said. A quantum computer would essentially be 
able to break these codes  So 
what to do if quantum computers can break the major classical cryptographic scheme? 
The idea is to come up with 
systems that are quantum secure, which is where quantum 
cryptography comes in.
Rather than depending on 
the dif?culty of factorizing 
primes, quantum cryptography depends on the unusual 
behavior of quantum particles. The sender sends a randomly generated sequence of 
qubits to the receiver across 
a quantum channel. After 
going through the process 
of recording the sent and received results, the two compare notes via conventional 
methods to ensure that the 
receiver received the correct 
information. An eavesdropper 
trying to intercept the quantum channel and extract information would be detected 
because their attempt would 
cause an unusual amount of 
discrepancy between the original and received messages, 
which would serve as a warning signal to the sender and 
receiver.
In this regard, quantum 
cryptography is more secure. 
Todays cryptographic methods could be intercepted by 
an eavesdropper with neither 
sender nor receiver noticing.
The group has been working to further the security 
of quantum cryptographic 
schemes, and has made headway into ef?ciently detecting eavesdropping within a 
scheme. But amidst all the 
emerging developments, 
There is a question that arose:  
What is the true driving force 
behind developing this new 
system of computation?
As with most theoretical physics, the driving force 
is a quest for understanding 
Stahlke explained. We have 
a fundamentally new type of 
information: quantum information. In the coming decades 
we may be able to exploit this 
new tool to build a quantum 
computer, but for now we 
study this to learn about the 
nature of quantum mechanics and about the nature of 
information. And since the 
universe we live in is quantum 
mechanical, it makes sense 
that we should try and gain an 
understanding of the quantum 
version of information.
CLAIRE GIANAKAS
Junior Staffwriter
ExpressionBlast, a new 
search engine developed by 
scientists at Carnegie Mellon 
University and Bar-Ilan University, helps scientists compare gene expression data 
with millions of other studies 
in order to ?nd experiments 
with similar pro?les.
Ziv Bar-Joseph, associate 
professor in Carnegie Mellons computational biology 
department, led the research 
team that published its work 
in the October issue of Nature 
Methods; Guy Zinman, Shoshana Naiman, Yariv Kan?, and 
Haim Cohen co-authored 
the journal report. Multiple 
Carnegie Mellon employees 
and students also contributed 
toward developing the search 
engine.
Bar-Josephs research focused on creating a concise, 
systematic way to compare 
gene expression data.
Everyone knows about 
DNA, the genetic material. We 
have exactly the same DNA in 
every cell of our body; however, all our cells are completely 
different in terms of what they 
do and look like [e.g., muscle 
cells vs. blood cells].... The 
reason that these cells are different is that different genes 
are being expressed, said Zinman, now a research scientist 
in Carnegie Mellons Lane Center for Computational Biology.
Zinman explained that 
the idea for ExpressionBlast 
originated from a paper that 
explored longevity in mice. In 
this research, expression of 
a certain gene allowed male 
mice to live 15 percent longer than control male mice; 
this phenomenon only occurred in male mice. In order 
to make sense of the data, the 
researchers began to look for 
other experiments with similar results.
Currently, one of the main 
places to look for this information is Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO), the largest public 
database for expression data. 
GEO contains more than a million experiments, but does not 
provide an easy way for users 
to compare these experiments 
with their own results.
As a research community, 
we had all this data, and it 
wasnt being used as much as 
we would have liked. There 
was no way for you to compare 
your own results to the one 
million experiments that were 
out there, Zinman said. This 
is because every experiment 
uses a different machine, a 
different platform, a different 
animal, and is testing different 
conditions.
ExpressionBlast automatically organizes data from genetic expression experiments 
on a weekly basis, so that they 
can be easily compared. Everyone can now take their own 
experiment, put it on the web 
interface we developed, and 
?nd other experiments that 
have similar pro?les, Zinman 
said.
ExpressionBlast has many 
applications in and out of the 
realm of science. Drug companies, for example, could use 
ExpressionBlast to determine 
whether a potential chemical 
compound is affecting gene 
expression in a way shown to 
have the desired outcome in a 
previous experiment conducted by others, saving them time 
and money.
Zinman said that his work 
with ExpressionBlast was 
funded and greatly in?uenced 
by a program known as Innovation Corps (I-Corps), a program run by the National Science Foundation that focuses 
on giving entrepreneurial 
training to students and professors in order to foster commercialization of ideas that 
arise throughout research.
It is a manner of thinking 
that is completely different 
from academia, he explained. 
I used this business thinking 
later on with my research, 
when looking for collaborators and research partners, 
and targeting my work towards more practical applications that the biological or 
medical communities are currently lacking.
The idea is to translate 
research to the marketplace, 
Zinman continued. Theres 
so much research being done 
at universities that can be applied to real world problems 
in a very short time, and many 
times the researchers dont 
have the skill set to go outside 
of the comfort zone of their 
labs and look for customers 
and commercialization options.
Aside from the possible 
long-term potential of ExpressionBlast, Zinman said that 
positive feedback for the tool is 
already surfacing. I get about 
one to two emails per day. Ive 
seen tweets from Cuba, Ive 
gotten questions from people 
in India, and even thank you 
emails from researchers, Zinman said. If it wasnt for the 
publication, it was for these 
emails. Just for them, it was 
worth it.
Despite the success of ExpressionBlast, Zinman admits 
that there is still work to be 
done. We still have many 
ideas that we would like to see 
implemented, he said.
ExpressionBlast has made 
previously available gene expression data more useful, and 
has already begun to in?uence 
research worldwide. In the 
future, ExpressionBlast will 
undoubtedly affect the way in 
which gene expression data 
is analyzed and contribute to 
many aspects of the academic 
and commercial world.
ExpressionBlast streamlines research for gene expression
Peter Lee/Junior Photographer
Physics professor Robert Grif?ths is studying quantum cryptography, which utilizes the principles of quantum computing.
Peter Lee/Junior Photographer
Professor Robert Grif?ths explains the differences between quantum computing and classical computing.
There was no 
way for you to 
compare your 
own results to 
the one million 
experiements 
that were out 
there
  Guy Zinman
Research Scientist 

---------------------------------------------------

October 14, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/scitech  A5
Researchers improve transportation safety
ROHAN VARMA
Junior Staffwriter
Car-related accidents are 
one of the leading causes of 
death in the United States. 
Over 30,000 people died from 
car-related accidents in 2011, 
and thousands more are involved in accidents that cause 
injury, according to the National Highway Traf?c Safety 
Administration. 
Researchers at Carnegie 
Mellon University, in conjunction with the University 
of Pennsylvania and the Department of Transportation 
(DOT), are taking strides to 
reduce these staggering numbers. Last week, DOT renewed 
the grant for Carnegie Mellons Technologies for Safe 
and Ef?cient Transportation 
(T-SET) program for the next 
two years, awarding close to 
$5.7 million.
The DOTs University Transportation Centers program 
picks ?ve universities around 
the nation to lead and set the 
standards in strategic areas 
including safety, economic, environmental, and maintenance 
concerns with transportation.
Two years ago, T-SET partnered with the University of 
Pennsylvania and was recognized as a University Transportation Center with an emphasis on safety; it has been 
awarded $2.85 million in 
grant money each year since.
Ragunathan Rajkumar, the 
director of T-SET, said, With 
Carnegie Mellon on the west 
and the University of Pennsylvania on the east, we think we 
can improve safety in the state 
very well. However, this being 
a national center, we solve national issues. We think we can 
have a big impact on the regional aspect, but we have an 
emphasis on the national scale 
of our projects.
Rajkumar said that over 
the last three years, Carnegie 
Mellon has implemented numerous technologies in the local Pittsburgh area in order to 
increase ef?ciency and safety 
in the region.
The website parkpgh.org  
is one such example. On the 
website, users can see the capacity of all of the parking garages in Pittsburgh in order to 
cut out the arduous process of 
roaming around the city looking for parking. A similar program called Tiramisu informs 
transit-users about the capacity of buses around the city so 
that they are not left waiting 
for a bus that ends up being 
full.
In addition, advanced traf?c lights are being installed in 
East Liberty; the lights monitor traf?c coming from all directions and make decisions 
about what the lights colors 
should be every two seconds. 
With this technology, drivers are no longer stopped by 
red lights at empty intersections and are more likely to 
hit consecutive green lights 
instead of constantly stopping 
and going.
With this new round of 
funding, T-SET is looking to 
invest in new types of accident 
prevention methods.
For instance, T-SET is expanding research that will 
allow sensors to gauge the 
conditions on the road and determine if an accident is likely 
to occur. While this technology was previously directed towards vehicle infrastructure, 
new initiatives are being made 
to implement it for bicycles 
and pedestrians.
We are looking to add 
technologies into bicycles and 
pedestrians because many of 
the accidents occur between a 
car and a pedestrian or biker, 
Rajkumar said. The technology would go into the smartphones of the pedestrians and 
onto little devices to be placed 
on the bicycles. Additional 
initiatives in these forms of 
intelligent transportation systems include vehicle-to-infrastructure communication.
Rajkumar said that T-SET 
is working on technologies 
that would allow traf?c lights 
to directly inform cars of the 
status of the light and respond 
to different situations. For instance, if the driver is not paying attention and is approaching a red light, the technology 
will slow the car down to a 
stop and prevent a potential 
accident from occurring.
Additionally, vehicle-to-vehicle communications offer great 
leaps in safety. One branch of 
research is developing communication and sensing devices that can detect the relative distance between cars. If 
cars are positioned too closely 
or are on a projectile pathway 
to collide, the device will actuate a response, such as a stop 
or redirection, in order to prevent the accident.
Each year, thousands of 
accidents occur when drivers 
run red lights or bump into 
each other. 
More than 90 percent 
of automotive accidents are 
caused by human error, Rajkumar said.
On roads ?tted with intelligent transportation systems, 
human error could be largely 
mitigated. Rajkumar envisions 
that, within the next 10 years, 
the technologies developed 
at Carnegie Mellon will ?nd 
their way into many roads, 
traf?c lights, and cellphones 
around the country.
MICHAEL SETZER
SciTech Editor
The Swedish Nobel committee announced the winners of the Nobel Prize last 
week. The winners of each 
category share an approximately $1.2 million prize.
Nobel Prize in 
Physiology or Medicine
The 2013 Nobel Prize 
in Physiology or Medicine 
was awarded to James E. 
Rothman of Yale University; Randy W. Schekman of 
the University of California, 
Berkeley; and Thomas C. 
Sdhof of Stanford University. According to the committee, the award was granted 
based on their discoveries of 
machinery regulating vesicle 
traf?c, a major transport system in our cells.
Vesicles are necessary 
for the transportation of 
molecules within our cells; 
think of a vesicle as a bus or 
cart, carrying precious passengers like insulin through 
the cell. How vesicles were 
able to pick up and drop off 
this cargo at the correct time, 
however, largely remained 
a mystery. Schekmans research focused mainly on the 
genes necessary for vesicle 
transport. Rothman provided 
insight into the necessary 
proteins needed for vesicle 
docking and fusion, and Sdhof looked at the chemical 
signals that told the vesicles 
when to release their cargo. 
Nobel Prize in Physics
The 2013 Nobel Prize in 
Physics was shared by Franois Englert of the Universit 
Libre de Bruxelles  located 
in Brussels, Belgium  and 
Peter Higgs of the University 
of Edinburgh, U.K. They received the award due to their 
theoretical proposal of a 
mechanism that contributes 
to our understanding of the 
origin of mass of subatomic 
particles, which was proven 
in 2012. This is often referred 
to as the Higgs boson.
In the 60s, Englert and 
Higgs both independently 
proposed a theory of how 
particles gain mass. This 
theory was an integral part of 
the standard model of particle physics, which states that 
everything in the universe is 
made up of matter particles. 
The Higgs boson is the particle associated with an invisible ?eld that takes up all 
space. This invisible ?eld is 
necessary for existence, as 
particles acquire mass only 
by interacting with this ?eld. 
In 2012, scientists were able 
to detect the existence of the 
Higgs particle.
Nobel Prize in Chemistry
The 2013 Nobel Prize in 
Chemistry was awarded to 
Martin Karplus of the Universit de Strasbourg, France 
and Harvard University; Michael Levitt of Stanford University; and Arieh Warshel 
of University of Southern 
California. Their work was 
recognized by the Nobel committee for the development 
of multiscale models for complex chemical systems.
This trio of scientists is 
being praised for its work 
on computer programs  
which started in the 70s 
 that can help predict and 
record chemical processes. 
Because chemical reactions 
can happen at a fraction of a 
second, creating a program 
that would be able to map 
them out in real time was a 
daunting challenge. The immense importance of these 
programs is especially visible 
in drug development. In the 
past, researchers had to test 
reactions on model organisms such as mice; now they 
can simply see what happens 
on a computer screen.
New virus-killing 
process discovered
Researchers led by microbiology professor ShouWei Ding, who heads a lab 
in the University of California, Riversides Institute for 
Integrative Genome Biology, have discovered that 
mammals use the RNA interference (RNAi) process 
to destroy viruses within 
their own cells like plants 
and invertebrate animals.
The teams earlier research into plants, nematodes, and fruit ?ies helped 
them ?nd the key: Viruses 
outwit the innate protection 
in cells by using proteins to 
suppress the virus-killing 
mechanism. Dings research 
discovered that removing the suppressor protein 
from the virus causes the 
subjects body to quickly 
eliminate the virus using 
the RNAi process, which 
sends out small interfering 
RNAs (siRNAs) to kill the 
disease.
Source: Science Daily
Deadly amoeba found in U.S.
State of?cials have con?rmed that the amoeba 
Naegleria fowleri has been 
found in a northern Louisiana parishs water. The 
amoeba proves deadly if 
water is ingested through 
the nose, and has recently 
been identi?ed in Florida, 
Mississippi, and Arkansas. 
In response to the number of incidents in Louisiana, state health of?cials 
announced they will implement new standards to 
kill the amoeba in water 
systems by increasing the 
amount of chlorine and 
ammonia they use to disinfect the water. The standards will exceed federal 
standards issued by the Environmental Protection 
Agency. It is unclear if other 
states will follow suit.
Source: Discovery News
Gas giants may rain diamonds
Studies suggest that on 
Jupiter and Saturn, it may 
rain diamonds. Theoretically, carbon soot particles, 
freed from methane particles in the planets upper 
atmosphere, would fall 
through heavy layers of hydrogen and helium toward 
the cores. On the way down, 
this carbon soot would be 
greatly condensed by high 
pressure and temperatures, 
thus leading to the formation of diamonds. 
By the time the diamonds neared the cores of 
each gas giant, they would 
likely have melted under 
such extreme heat and 
morphed into a liquid state, 
creating diamond rain.
Source: The Huf?ngton Post
Compost may hold fatal bacteria
Compost may harbor 
Legionella spp., the bacteria responsible for Legionnaires disease, a potentially 
deadly form of pneumonia. 
A recent study by researchers in the United Kingdom 
found the bacteria in 15 
out of 24 commercially 
available composts. Previous research identi?ed the 
bacteria in compost from 
Australia, Japan, and Switzerland, according to the 
Centers for Disease Control 
and Prevention (CDC). 
The CDC warns that 
Legionella infection risk is 
greater for older individuals, former smokers, chronic lung disease patients and 
those with weakened immune systems.
Source: Discovery News
 Compiled By
DESIREE XU
Nobel committee announces winners
Michelle Wan/Junior Photographer
Ragunathan Rajkumar, the director of Carnegie Mellons Technologies for Safe and Ef?cient Transportation, 
discusses his work on vehicle sensors that can detect other cars, pedestrians, and even red lights.
SCITECH BRIEFS

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan is a student newspaper at Carnegie Mellon University, funded in part by the student 
activities fee. It is a weekly publication by students during the fall and spring semesters, printed by 
Trib Total Media. The Tartan is not an official publication of Carnegie Mellon University. 
The Editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The 
Tartan Editorial Board. Columns, Editorial Cartoons, and Reviews are the opinions of their 
individual creators. The Tartan Editorial Staff reserves the right to withhold from publication 
any copy it deems unfit.
Letters to the Editor are the opinions of their authors. Letters from within the University community take precedence. Letters intended for publication must be signed and include the authors 
address and telephone number for verification; letters must not exceed 350 words. Authors names 
may be withheld from publication upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject 
any letter. Letters must be submitted by 5 p.m. on the Wednesday before publication by mail or to 
forum@thetartan.org.
StaffEditorial Board
Office: University Center 314
Phone: (412) 268-2111
Fax: (412) 268-1596
Web: www.thetartan.org
E-mail: contact@thetartan.org
Mail:
The Tartan
Box 119, UC Suite 103 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
 2013 The Tartan, all rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN: 0890-3107
JENNIFER COLOMA *
Publisher
JOSH SMITH *
Editor-in-Chief
BRADEN KELNER 
Forum Editor 
EVAN KAHN *
Copy Manager
JUSTIN MCGOWN
Online Editor
CHLOE THOMPSON
Staffwriter
BRENT HEARD *
Staffwriter
A6  thetartan.org/forum The Tartan  October 14, 2013
FROM THE EDITORIAL BOARD
SENIOR STAFF 
Stephanie Blotner, Carl Glazer, Greg Hanneman
COPY
Lula Beresford-Banker, Francesca Begos, Matt 
Brown, Connie Chan, Nivedita Chopra, Gordon 
Estes, Blaine Greenberg, Ariel Hoffmaier, 
Katherine Huang, Evaline Ju, Karyn Michela, 
Satvika Neti, Mackenzie Nicholson, Gates 
Palissery, Syed Rahman, Taylor Rawley, Kevin 
Reichek, Stephanie Stern, James Wu
LAYOUT
Adrian Amegashie, Manali Banjeree, Yong Gun 
Choe, Sara-Remi Fields, Anne-Sophie Kim, 
Mina Kim, Linging Sun, Tanguri Tzuo
ADVERTISING
Alison Chiu, Linda Ju, Anuva Kulkarni, 
Gretchen Tan
KELSEY SCOTT *
Operations Manager
NEL UM
News Co-Editor
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
News Co-Editor
MICHAEL SETZER
SciTech Editor
WILLIAM PARK
Sports Editor
RACHEL COHEN
Pillbox Editor
KAIRAVI CHAHAL
Comics Editor
KATE GROSCHNER
Photo Editor
LAURA SCHERB
Personnel Manager
WILL CRICHTON
Systems Manager
SWATHI ANAND
Layout Manager
JOHN HUO
Advertising Manager
DESIREE XU
Business Manager
BENJAMIN CHANG
Asst. Business Manager
JONATHAN LEUNG
Asst. Photo Editor
HANNAH DELLABELLA
Asst. Copy Manager
JULIA YANG
Asst. Copy Manager
BROOKE KUEI
Asst. SciTech Editor
JOEY PEISER
Asst. Pillbox Editor
JONATHAN CARREON
Contributing Editor
Editorial Staff
* Denotes executive committee member
University must address gaps in blue lights
Carnegie Mellon currently has 
72 two-way emergency phones, according to the universitys 2013 Annual Security and Fire Safety Report. 
To many students, these phones are 
known as blue lights. 
The phones are well-distributed 
throughout the main parts of campus, around academic buildings, and 
near the Cut, the Mall, and Gesling 
Stadium.
As Carnegie Mellon expands in 
accordance with its 10-year Master 
Plan, The Tartan hopes that the university expands its blue light system, 
both into newly obtained and currently owned properties.
While the blue light system may 
not seem to some students an effective way to protect themselves 
against crime, it contributes to a 
safer campus atmosphere. More importantly, this option for safety, if not 
available, could be costly to students 
well-being.
According to the 2013 Annual 
Security and Safety Report, there is 
only one blue light located on Craig 
Street near the University Police Department. 
There are no blue lights within 
the vicinity of Fairfax Apartments 
or on Fifth Avenue between WQED 
and the Residence on Fifth. Furthermore, there are no blue lights near 
both Shirley Apartments and Webster Hall. Fifth Avenue is a high-traf?c area for students living in these 
residences, especially since many 
students use the pathway between 
WQED and the Morewood parking 
lot to get to campus. Forbes Avenue 
presents a similar situation, as there 
are few easily accessible blue lights 
along the avenue, most notably near 
the Panther Hollow Inn. These areas are presumably more dangerous 
than areas that rest within the main 
part of campus, such as near Hunt 
Library or other academic buildings, where blue lights are already 
installed.
The university should attempt to 
?x these patches in its blue light system. The lack of blue lights in these 
areas may be logistical, and would 
depend upon whether or not the university owns property where it might 
place the lights. If this is the case, the 
university should work to place blue 
lights within the boundaries of its 
buildings properties, or work with 
the owners of properties that house 
Carnegie Mellon students, but are 
not owned by the university, to establish blue lights.
As the university expands over 
the next 10 years, Carnegie Mellon 
must place blue lights not only near 
new facilities that arise, but also near 
facilities that currently lack blue 
lights nearby.
Domestic abuse cannot be a taboo subject
October is Domestic Violence 
Awareness Month, but unfortunately, many people are unaware of it.
Started in 1987 by the National 
Coalition Against Domestic Violence 
(NCADV), this awareness campaign 
is highly under-recognized, but extremely important.
Many people are uncomfortable 
with the topic of domestic violence 
and often consider it taboo when discussing societal issues. Most cases of 
domestic violence are not reported 
to the police. 
Only one in four people report 
physical assaults by partners, and 
one in ?ve report rapes, says the 
NCADV. One in four women will be 
a victim of domestic abuse in her lifetime, according to the NCADV. 
Our society needs to become 
more open about discussing this sensitive topic.
The effects of domestic violence 
extend beyond the scope of the immediate victim. 
The NCADV reports that witnessing violence between parents is the 
strongest risk factor for carrying violent behavior into the next generation. This correlation is often seen in 
boys who witness domestic violence; 
they are twice as likely to abuse their 
own partners when they become 
adults.
Carnegie Mellons student life 
website has listed some community 
resources available for victims of domestic abuse including the Alle-Kiski 
Area Hope Center, Womansplace, 
Inc., the Womens Center & Shelter 
of Greater Pittsburgh, and Center for 
Victims of Violent Crime (CVVC).
The philanthropic efforts of Alpha 
Chi Omega also serve to break this 
barrier on campus. Each October, 
the sorority organizes an event titled 
Walk A Mile in Her Shoes, in which 
men are sponsored to wear womens 
shoes. Proceeds go to the Pittsburgh 
Womens Shelter and the national 
chapter of Alpha Chi Omega. The 
campus chapter also sponsors other 
events throughout the year to combat domestic violence.
These efforts are admirable, and 
The Tartan hopes that similar efforts 
are enacted on larger scales worldwide to break down the barriers 
preventing discussion of this issue. 
Domestic violence must become less 
taboo if we are to make any strides in 
preventing it.
Corbett should alter views on gay marriage
Armys tattoo regulations 
suppress individuality
JUSTIN YAN
Junior Staffwriter
The tattoo, seen as exotic, painful, and rebellious, is a part of everyday expression: 23 percent of 
Americans have at least one tattoo, 
and 38 percent of 18-29 year olds 
have some sort of inking, according 
to a Pew Research poll conducted 
in 2010. David Beckham, once Englands golden soccer boy, has sleeves 
?lled with ink. Angelina Jolie also 
has skin modi?cations over much 
of her body, all of which drew the 
presss speculation as to what they 
mean.
A spokesman for the U.S. Army 
of?cially stated that the army is a 
uniformed service where the public 
judges a soldiers discipline in part 
by the manner in which he or she 
wears the uniform, as well as by the 
individuals personal appearance, 
according to The Wall Street Journal. 
Newly proposed regulations under 
?nal review by the army will not allow soldiers to have tattoos below 
the knee or elbow. This new restriction has led to a spike in parlor visits 
from servicemen and women. Until 
now, tattoos were allowed everywhere except the face and neck. The 
army administration is not only trying to combat this rising trend, but is 
also unnecessarily opposing its subculture of tattooed soldiers.
In our current society, where 
people share personal information 
through Facebook posts and tweets, 
the popularity of tattoos makes 
sense. Walking around with a quotation on the arm, a bald eagle on the 
shoulder, or a kanji symbol on the 
ankle all serves to tell random bystanders who a person is and what 
they stand for. Tattoos are projections of things people like on Facebook, the tweets they retweet, and 
everything in their life they hold 
dear, blended together and permanently etched into their skin.
Lets be honest: Tattoos add a 
sense of rebellion, danger, and excitement to men and women. A poll 
conducted by Harris Interactive in 
2012 showed that 30 percent of tattooed people feel more sexy with 
their tattoos, while 25 percent say 
they make them feel more rebellious. 21 percent of tattooed people 
say that tattoos make them feel sexy 
or strong.
Where does this image of tattoos come from? For one, the hippie 
culture in the 1960s created much 
of the association of counterculture with tattoos, according to the 
National Post. Thats where the rebellious nature of tattoos comes in. 
PBS says that during World War II  
the golden age of tattoos  U.S. soldiers and U.S. Navy sailors often felt 
lost in the large number of uniforms, 
and were the ?rst large subculture 
to have some sort of inking. Sailors would often have engravings of 
scantily clad women on their arms, 
furthering the rebellious and risqu 
subculture of tattoos in the Armed 
Forces. Now, the armys administration, countering the popular stereotype, wants the Armed Forces to be 
presented as clean cut, according to 
The Wall Street Journal.
These new restrictions sever soldiers rights to express themselves. 
Every tattoo I have on my body 
says something about who I am, 
where Im from, or the things Ive 
been through, said First Sergeant 
Aki Paylor in an article published 
by the of?cial website of the United 
States Army, speci?cally mentioning his warrior ethos tattoo. Military personnel go through intensive 
training, get thrown under remarkable pressure, and are often lost in 
a mass of shaved heads and uniformity. It seems normal for them to 
have a need to illustrate their identity among the sea of camou?age 
uniforms. Not only could tattoos 
help others recognize who someone 
is behind the uniform and haircut, it 
could help soldiers themselves to realize who they were, are, and want 
to be. 
Being in the military  not even 
on the front lines  can be an immensely stressful experience, and 
a solid surface for military personnel to hold onto could be incredibly 
comforting. That solid surface is 
their body inking.
The army 
administration ... 
is unnecessarily 
opposing its 
subculture of 
tattooed soldiers.
Braden Kelner/Forum Editor
Braden Kelner/Forum Editor
In a recent interview with WHPTV in Harrisburg, Governor Tom 
Corbett (R-Pa.) recently compared 
the idea of legalizing gay marriage 
to the idea of legalizing incest. According to the Los Angeles Times, on 
Oct. 4 he apologized for his recent 
court ?ling that initially compared 
the marriage of gay couples to child 
marriage on the basis that both are 
illegal in Pennsylvania.
Corbett acknowledged unsarcastically, It was an inappropriate analogy, you know. I think a much better 
analogy would have been brother 
and sister, dont you? While he later 
apologized for this comparison, after 
outrage from the gay community, 
this is indicative of the uninformed 
and out-of-touch mindset of legislators who oppose gay marriage.
Corbett is far from the ?rst national politician to exhibit such insensitivity toward the issue of gay 
rights, let alone the ?rst Pennsylvania politician. Most notably, former 
Pennsylvania Senator Rick Santorum is notorious for his opposition to gay rights. According to The 
Huf?ngton Post, he has stated his 
belief that legalizing gay marriage 
would discourage future heterosexual marriages. He has also stated that 
legalizing gay marriage would lead 
to the legalization of bigamy, incest, 
and polygamy, according to CNN.
The conservative evangelical 
policy makers that hold these views 
not only ?nd themselves out of touch 
with their constituents, but in some 
cases, also with their own religions. 
While not completely in line with 
increasingly popular views on gay 
rights, the Church of Latter-day 
Saints has made strides for openness 
and acceptance toward homosexual 
individuals. According to Time magazine, Mormon leaders have backed 
the Boy Scouts of Americas move to 
allow openly gay scouts, and church 
leaders no longer advise gay members to marry only people of the opposite sex. The Catholic Church has 
similarly seen some progress. According to CNN, Pope Francis stated 
in July, If someone is gay and he 
searches for the Lord and has good 
will, who am I to judge? 
While religious institutions may 
still oppose gay marriage, they express greater degrees of acceptance 
than Corbett.
It is time for politicians to do their 
research, become more conscious of 
the scope of gay rights, and better 
re?ect the views of their constituents 
and their religious beliefs. 
If Corbett fails to adopt a more 
accepting stance similar to other 
conservative ?gures and institutions, he may lose the support of his 
constituents.

---------------------------------------------------

A PERSONS OPINION
October 14, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/forum  A7
Compiled by Jonathan Leung
The Tartan is ready to relax for fall break. So we asked,
How much time during it do you plan to devote to homework?
Its a shutdown, not a showdown
BRANDON SCHMUCK
Junior Staffwriter
Weve been told to make life as 
dif?cult for people as we can. Its 
disgusting, said a national park service ranger who was disturbed by 
instructions received from a boss, 
according to The Atlantic Wire. The 
United States has strictly enforced 
the closure of its national park services due to the government shutdown and has gone as far as putting 
more effort into restricting citizens 
from entering parks than it has simply allowing them to remain open.
Because Congress has been unable to agree on a budget, it makes 
sense that national parks have been 
unable to operate; ?nancial funding is required to operate anything. 
However, what does not make sense 
is that, while the government has 
suspended their national park services, they have continued to keep a 
number of service members on the 
payroll, simply to restrict American 
citizens from accessing the parks.
Perhaps one of the most disturbing cases of this restriction is the 
World War II Memorial. As an openair monument, it is available to citizens 24 hours a day. The monument 
was constructed almost entirely 
on private funding with $197 million in donations. There are little 
to no resources required to operate 
this monument, besides perhaps a 
guard or two. However, it has been 
physically barricaded from the public, and several workers have been 
put on guard to ensure that citizens 
cannot access it, according to Time 
magazine.
According to Fox News, Rep. Jason Smith (R-Mo.) stated on the 
House ?oor last Tuesday that the 
Federal government is currently putting forth more resources to pay Federal workers to barricade the American people out of some national 
monuments than it does to actually 
operate them. These initiatives are 
nothing but a political game.
The idea that the closure of the 
World War II Memorial and others is 
a political game is only strengthened 
when one considers that the Republican National Committee offered to 
pay $150,000 a month to keep the 
monument open to the public during 
the course of the shutdown, according to The Daily Caller. They obviously wanted to make the Democrats 
look like the bad guys. In turn, the 
fact that the Obama Administration informed the Republicans that 
they cannot legally accept this offer 
shows that they do not want to make 
the Republican Party look like the 
good guys.
The Obama Administration and 
the Democratic Party clearly want 
to make the impact of the shutdown 
as widespread as possible, in order 
to cause the Republican Partys approval ratings to plummet. If this is 
their objective, they have been successful so far. 
According to MSNBC, only 5 percent of Americans currently approve 
of Congress. Moreover, an Associated Press-GfK Group survey found 
that 62 percent of Americans placed 
the blame on Republicans for the 
government shutdown.
Sadly, this shutdown simply re?ects the entire problem with Washington. It is currently a duopoly 
where the primary objective of each 
party is to defeat the other. 
This mindset is why this shutdown has lasted this long. Both parties want to look like the hero, and 
neither is willing to budge to the 
other.
Foxs news deck fails to blast off
JUSTIN MCGOWN
You would be forgiven for tuning 
into Fox News in the near future and 
thinking that the entire newsroom 
is en route to Mars. The cable news 
channel has rebuilt its newsroom 
into what it calls a News Deck. The 
News Deck has been equipped with 
a dizzying array of technology designed to help the station provide updates to the new non-linear viewer. 
Non-linear viewers dont sit down 
and watch TV regularly, but rather 
tune in on [their] time, according 
to Fox News anchor Shepard Smith.
Combating the threat of the 
uninformed non-linear viewer requires employees to use Big Area 
Touchscreens, 55-inch screens 
that can be used to  trawl social 
media for posts containing trending buzzwords. There is also now 
a 30-foot-long screen on which anchors can move photos around with 
a Wii Remote-like wand. The people operating the pointlessly large 
screens will be the journalists who 
would normally be at desks working 
on stories, who can now have their 
work stations broadcast to millions 
of viewers at a moments notice.
Why? Because there are tweets, 
Facebook posts, and a host of unvetted information out there to share 
with viewers. Because the viewer 
doesnt tune into the news for accurate information. You tune in to 
hear what the Internet thinks, and 
the best way to do that is by putting 
the people who do the most important work in the organization on the 
bridge of the Enterprise so they can 
get sensory overload.
Sarcasm aside, Fox News is not 
alone in the news as entertainment 
movement on television. However, 
the station is taking this movement 
to new and ridiculous heights while 
eroding what bits of journalistic integrity it had left. 
The station is aiming to provide 
even more coverage of frequently unreliable social media posts, despite 
recent embarrassments suffered by 
many major television news sources. 
It is selling these posts to viewers 
with ?ashing lights and unnecessary 
moving images.
No part of this revamped News 
Deck contributes to good reporting; 
None of it actually helps the viewer. 
News sources need to provide facts 
and, in the case of Fox News, rightleaning opinions. Trying to give 
viewers a seizure with more screens 
than you are likely to ?nd on the 
bridge of a modern aircraft carrier is 
not the way to do it. This newsroom 
is perhaps the most visible example 
imaginable of favoring ?ash over 
substance, since Fox News stated 
that its intent is to do even less original coverage and, instead, let the Internet provide it with content.
In the video tour of the deck, 
Smith mentions that modern viewers have changed their preferences 
for learning about a story; they now 
follow the news on phones and computers. Instead of trying to provide 
something unique  offering a better or more effective in-depth story 
 the station is trying to offer more 
of the same. Fox News seems sure 
that others will imitate their News 
Deck, but with luck they will strike 
an asteroid instead.
Justin McGown (jmcgown@) is 
online editor for The Tartan.
Share blame for the worlds climate shame
ARIEL HOFFMAIER
Junior Staffwriter
An article published in last 
weeks issue of The Tartan titled 
Address global warming to sidestep dire effects stated that people 
of ?rst world nations must aid those 
whom they have affected, seeing as 
?rst world nations have contributed 
most of the pollution that is perpetuating global warming.
But who is to blame for this climate change? Most would point ?ngers at these so-called ?rst world nations and with due cause. According 
to CNN, 20 percent of the worlds 
wealthiest nations are responsible 
for 80 percent of global emissions. 
Meanwhile, the one billion poorest people in the world are responsible for a mere 3 percent of global 
emissions. 
Evidently, wealthy nations contribute most to environmental degradation while developing countries 
are doomed to experience the worst 
effects of climate change. In fact, 
University of California, Berkeley 
professor Richard Norgaard said on 
CNN that the environmental debt 
the worlds wealthiest nations owe 
to the poorest exceeds the estimated 
third world debt by over $4 billion.
However, when discussing environmental degradation, individuals 
must be considered above nations. 
Carbon footprint levels do not travel with national identity, but they 
might very well come paired with a 
persons income.
Developing nations such as China, India, and Brazil are producing 
millionaires at increasingly higher 
rates. The rise of these new rich, 
coupled with the expansion of middle classes in developing countries, 
has dangerous implications for the 
environment. Increases in standard 
of living  modeled after Western 
consumer culture  must be tied 
inexorably to high levels of consumption. In addition, the two most 
prominent developing countries  
India and China  are home to over 
35 percent of the worlds population, according to the International 
Business Times. There is real immediate danger in these nations aiming 
to live like Americans; population 
blog Per Square Mile says that if everyone did, we would need about 
four planet Earths.
Ultimately, many environmental 
problems are beyond the scope of 
a single nation. Policing the worlds 
greatest common resource  the 
ocean  is impossible without collaboration, and who can say where 
one nations air stops and anothers 
begins? Most other limited resources only fall under the jurisdiction of a nation through the luck of 
geography. All efforts to save the 
environment must therefore be collaborative, with countries working 
together to salvage the only planet 
they will ever have.
Still, many developed nations 
have a habit of standing apart from 
the pack in negative ways. The United States is notorious for bowing 
out of international environmental 
treaties, most memorably the 1997 
Kyoto Treaty for reducing carbon 
emissions. America was one of few 
industrialized nations not to ratify, 
and the treaty suffered a serious 
blow to its clout without the backing 
of such an internationally crucial 
player.
Clearly, developed nations must 
tackle their own lacking environmental policies before citing any 
kind of moral obligation to help 
developing countries rise to their 
level. This idea of a moral obligation 
suggests that the United States and 
similar nations intrinsically know 
much better than the leaders, scientists, and activists of a nation what is 
best for their nations development, 
which is hypocrisy on an extreme 
scale.
America remains the nation 
with the largest carbon footprint 
per capita by carbon dioxide emissions  a position it has held without shame for decades, according to 
Postconsumers.com. Although China takes ?rst place for carbon emissions overall, China is distinguishing 
itself as impressively progressive 
in dealing with the environmental 
consequences of rapid industrialization. No other evidence can better disprove the insulting idea that 
developed nations somehow owe 
developing countries their expertise 
on matters of environmentally sustainable progress.
Perhaps placing blame is pointless. It certainly wastes time that 
could be better spent by taking a 
hard look at how our own actions 
are impacting the environment. After all, if individuals can hold great 
responsibility for degrading the environment, they also have the power 
to enact lasting positive change.
Isabelle Jiang
Math
Sophomore
Probably ten hours.
Mitchell Plamann
Computer Science
First-year
Somewhere around five hours.
Victoria Wu
Social & Decision Sciences
Junior
Enough to make me cry.
Megha Bhambri
MechE
Sophomore
I am going away, so not going to 
do any.
Aditya Narasimha
Business Administration
Graduate student
None at all.
Braden Kelner/Forum Editor
Braden Kelner/Forum Editor

---------------------------------------------------

A8  thetartan.org/sports The Tartan  October 14, 2013
WILLIAM PARK
Sports Editor
Before clouds covered the 
Pittsburgh sky, the sun shined 
long enough on Saturday 
morning for the mens and 
womens cross country teams 
Carnegie Mellon Invitational.
The mens cross country team, led by senior Josh 
Newbys second-place ?nish 
(25:47.8), took home ?rst in 
the eight-kilometer race.
The women ?nished third 
in their ?ve-kilometer race. 
Junior Erin Kiekhaefer ?nished ?rst (19:03.5) for the 
Tartans and eighth overall, 
while sophomore Rekha 
Schnepf (19:32.9) ?nished 
second.
The top ?ve ?nishes for 
each team determine the 
teams ?nal score.
The race started at the 
Schenley Oval in Schenley 
Park. The course included the 
Upper Panther Hollow and 
the Bridle Trails.
I thought the women did 
very well in grouping themselves together. I know that 
their grouping was good, and 
my one-to-?ve split was very 
good, so Im pleased with 
that, said head coach Dario 
Donatelli.
Sophomore Priya Patel 
and senior Catherine Paquette ?nished together with 
times of 19:53.2 and 19:53.9, 
respectively.
First-year Rachel McCoy 
rounded out the womens 
top ?ve with her 32nd-place 
?nish.
For the mens team, both 
current and former athletes 
showed impressive times. The 
Carnegie Mellon Alumni team 
?nished third and had three 
runners ?nish in the top 10.
The current squad blew 
away the entire ?eld. Its top 
?ve ?nishes were within the 
?rst 13.
Newby, who ?nished third 
overall last year, continued his 
success in the invitational.
I felt really good. This 
is our home course  its a 
confusing and strange course 
 but our team knows the 
course really well so we knew 
when to go, Newby said.
He looked like he got into 
a nice group. When I saw him 
on the trail, at two miles and 
four miles, he was just gliding 
along, Donatelli said.
Senior Ken Murphy was 
the next Tartan to ?nish, coming in at eighth overall.
Junior George Degen and 
sophomores Marc-Daniel 
Julien and Brian Bollens 
took places 11, 12, and 13 
respectively.
The strong ?nish for the 
Tartans comes at a good time, 
as the teams prepare for the 
University Athletic Association (UAA) Championships on 
Nov. 12, which will be held on 
the same course.
The fact that theres a 
200-person ?eld in this race 
makes it a lot more like UAA, 
and I feel like our team is really prepared to just crush 
conferences, Newby said.
Cross country shines at CMU invitational
SPORTS COMMENTARYPenguins hope for improved results in the realigned NHL
CARL GLAZER
Senior Staffwriter
For the ?rst time since their 
re-emergence as Stanley Cup 
contenders, the Pittsburgh 
Penguins seem to be overshadowed by the other Pittsburgh 
professional teams. The combination of the Pirates ?rst 
playoff berth in over 20 years 
and the Steelers abysmal 14 
start has stolen most of the 
focus away from Pittsburghs 
hockey franchise. 
The surprisingly early start 
to the season, compared to last 
years lock-out-delayed January start, has most Pittsburghers unaware that the Penguins are already ?ve games 
into their season.
For better or worse, the 
Penguins are returning a 
squad very similar to the one 
that was embarassingly swept 
by the Boston Bruins in last 
years Eastern Conference 
Finals.
The main losses are the veterans the Penguins acquired 
last season in trades to push 
themselves over the edge: Forwards Jarome Iginla and Brenden Morrow, and defenseman 
Douglas Murray all left via 
free agency.
Left wing Jussi Jokinen was 
the one player to stick around 
after the Pens acquired him. 
Twenty-one-year-old forward 
Beau Bennett looks to be the 
future top-line winger. As 
alternate captain Evgeni Malkin and captain Sidney Crosby 
get older, the Penguins hope 
Bennett can develop and make 
up for the twos decreased 
production. But as of now, he 
is too inexperienced to play 
the physical style demanded 
by the line of Malkin and left 
wing James Neal. 
Expect to see Jokinen start 
the season, with Bennett 
jumping up in the depth chart 
as he gets more comfortable 
on the ice.
On defense, the Penguins 
return the same mediocre 
group of players. In fact, they 
are even worse off, with topscoring defenseman Kris Letang out with a lower body 
injury. With their third-leading point scorer from last season out inde?nitely, the Pens 
could be without some of the 
offensive ?repower that has 
kept them competitive the last 
few years in spite of their porous defense and inconsistent 
goaltending.
Speaking of goaltending, 
the Penguins still have the 
same question marks that they 
have had the past few seasons. Goaltender Marc-Andre 
Fleury has been one of the top 
regular season goalies the past 
two seasons, but during the 
playoffs of those two seasons, 
his play has been atrocious. 
Since goaltending is such a 
mentally challenging position, it will be interesting to 
see how Fleury bounces back 
from being benched in last 
years playoffs. Its even more 
critical that Fleury be on his 
game since Tomas Vokoun, 
the goalie who took over for 
Fleury, is out for the next 36 
months with blood clots, leaving Fleury without a veteran 
backup.
The biggest change to the 
Penguins comes in the form of 
the NHL conference realignment. With the 2011 move of 
the Atlanta Thrashers to Winnipeg and being renamed the 
Jets, the NHL needed to shuf?e up its divisions and conferences. There are still two conferences, the 14-team Western 
Conference and the 16-team 
Eastern Conference, but now 
instead of six ?ve-team divisions, there are only four total 
divisions, with two in each 
conference. 
This realignment has ?xed 
many years of illogical geographic divisions due to the 
mass movement of teams from 
smaller northeastern United 
States and Canadian cities, 
down to the Sun Belt ranging from Florida to Texas and 
Arizona. It is also only a trial 
run due to unbalanced conferences and divisions, and 
the threat of relocation by the 
Phoenix Coyotes and several 
other southern teams.
This change in divisional 
format has also affected the 
playoff system. Each division 
will have three automatic 
playoff quali?ers, with two 
more wild card teams coming 
from the top two remaining 
teams in the conference. The 
second and third seeds from 
each division will play each 
other in the ?rst round of the 
playoffs, and the top seed in 
each division will play one of 
the wild card teams, with the 
overall top seed playing the 
weaker wild card. 
The winners of those two 
series within each division 
will play each other for the 
divisional championship, and 
the winners of the divisional 
championships will play each 
other for the conference championship. The two conference 
winners will then play for the 
Stanley Cup.
One of the major criticisms 
of this system is the impact of 
division strength in playoff 
berths and ease. If one division is signi?cantly weaker 
than another, it will give top 
teams in that division a much 
easier road to the conference 
?nals, allowing them to rest 
their players and have a leg up 
on the competition.
The Penguins are in the 
newly formed Metropolitan 
Division within the Eastern 
Conference. They are still with 
all of their old Atlantic Division foes  the New Jersey 
Devils, both New York teams, 
and their cross-state rivals the 
Philadelphia Flyers  but are 
also adding the Washington 
Capitals, the Carolina Hurricanes, and the Columbus Blue 
Jackets, who are moving from 
the Western Conference.
Even with all the changes 
in the NHL, the Penguins biggest challenges come from 
within. Since they won the 
Stanley Cup in 2009, the team 
has only grown and improved. 
But their biggest foes have 
been injuries and inconsistent 
play. 
If Crosby and Malkin can 
stay on the ice, and Fleury 
can get his head straight and 
play in the postseason like he 
has during the regular season, 
look for another deep playoff 
run. Otherwise, look for another postseason full of disappointment.
Jason Chen/Staff Photographer
The mens cross country team (above) took ?rst place in the Carnegie Mellon Invitational, while the womens team ?nished third.
CMUs Alla wins ITA tournament
Upcoming Schedule
Mens Soccer
Oct. 18*
Brandeis University at 
Carnegie Mellon, 1 p.m.
Oct. 20*
New York University at 
Carnegie Mellon, 11 a.m.
Womens Soccer
Oct. 18*
Brandeis University at 
Carnegie Mellon, 3:30 p.m.
Oct. 20*
New York University at 
Carnegie Mellon, 1:30 p.m.
Football
Oct. 19
Carnegie Mellon at Mercer 
University, 1 p.m.
Nov. 2*
Washington University in 
St. Louis at Carnegie Mellon, 
12 p.m.
Volleyball
Oct. 1920*
UAA Round Robin, Washington University in St. Louis
Cross Country 
Nov. 2*
UAA Championships, 
Schenley Park, 11 a.m.
Swimming/Diving 
Oct. 26*
Case Western Reserve 
University at Carnegie Mellon, 
1 p.m.
Nov. 2*
Clarion University at Carnegie Mellon, 11 a.m.
* indicates UAA Conference 
play
WILLIAM PARK
Sports Editor
To become the Division 
III Intercollegiate Tennis 
Association (ITA) National 
Singles Champion, sophomore Abhishek Alla had to 
defeat six opponents  two 
of them from his own team  
in the ITA Southeast regional 
tournament, and three other 
regional champions.
His immediate reaction 
upon becoming singleschampion: Just a smile I 
guess.
The even-keeled Alla 
cruised to victory, not dropping a set in the national tournament. His dominance is 
nothing new; in the regional 
tournament, he dropped only 
one set, which came against 
teammate junior William 
Duncan in the quarter?nals.
Alla entered the tournament with tempered expectations  Lets just take it 
match by match, he said  
and took the ?rst match to 
?nd his groove.
Against No. 4 seed Paxton Deuel of Trinity University last Thursday, Alla found 
himself trailing the ?rst set 
54. After holding serve to 
tie the set at 55, Alla broke 
Deuels serve and held his 
serve again to win the set.
Deuel fought back, winning the ?rst three games of 
the second set. But Alla regrouped and won the next six 
games to take the match.
I wouldnt say [I was] 
nervous, but the other guy 
was consistent. He was just 
getting the balls back, so I 
was like  I should do the 
same.... It was a long ?rst 
match, he said.
Alla crushed his next two 
opponents. He beat Sam Geier from Kenyon College 62, 
60 in the semi?nals.
In the ?nal match on Saturday, he defeated Skylar 
Butts of the Claremont Colleges 64, 61 to take home 
the championship title.
Alla said his recent play 
is the best since coming to 
Carnegie Mellon but not his 
best overall.
Ive probably played better before I came to CMU.
That Alla has even more 
room to develop should be 
terrifying to opponents and 
good news to the mens tennis team as they try to make 
the NCAA Division III tournament next May.
Despite proving his skills 
on the court, Alla admits 
his serve could always use 
more work: Im trying. If it 
gets better, it gets better, or 
else its just going to stay the 
same, he said. His serve may 
not be the most powerful, 
but now, it is the serve of a 
champion.
Courtesy of West Point - The U.S. Military Academy on Flickr
Sidney Crosby (above) looks to avoid another injury-plagued season. 

---------------------------------------------------

A Cappella 
The annual charity concert brings a 
distinct set of voices to the stage  B8
10.14.13 Volume 108, Issue 8
A CaPittsburgh

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
Check out this weeks awesome comics!11
The Tartan . Box 119 . UC Suite 103 . Carnegie Mellon University . 5000 Forbes Ave . Pittsburgh, PA 15213 . www.thetartan.org .  2013 The Tartan
PUBLISHER Jennifer Coloma EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Josh Smith 
PILLBOX EDITOR Rachel Cohen ASSISTANT PILLBOX EDITOR Joey Peiser 
COMICS EDITOR Kairavi Chahal PHOTO EDITOR Kate Groschner 
COPY MANAGER Evan Kahn COVER Jason Chen
8
4579
regulars...
Advice
Everything you need to know about addressing 
a friend about his sense of humor.
3
...diversions
...this week only
Bassnectar
The electronic dance musician brings his 
distinctive beats to Pittsburgh.
3
Book reviewIn Without Their Permission, reddit co-founder 
Alexis Ohanian discusses the tech sector.4
Web series
Emma Approved adapts Jane Austens Emma 
for the modern age and the computer screen.
5
Coven
The third season of American Horror Story is 
slower in pace than previous installments.
6
CMU Night
The Pittsburgh Symphony presents a stellar 
program of classic orchestral works.
7
A CaPittsburgh
Student amateurs compete to raise money for 
charity in Dancing with the Stars: CMU Edition.
8
TV spinoff
Once Upon a Time in Wonderland is a colorful 
adaptation of the original ABC series.
10
Puzzles
Whoever solves the puzzles this week gets a 
prize. But not really.
13
Horoscopes
Theyre more like advice based on your Zodiac 
sign, really.
14
Calendar
Check out the calendar for things to do on and 
off campus this week.
15
Dance
The annual a cappella charity concert 
highlights the vocally talented student body.
9

---------------------------------------------------

music 
pillbox 10.14.133
Bassnectar plays energetic set
The electronic dance musician offers a sensory overload
Over 2,000 people were gathered at Stage AE last 
Monday at around 9:30 p.m., anxiously awaiting the 
moment when the house lights would turn down and 
the dull music filling the silence would be cut off. 
Some of these people looked like they had just come 
from work, while others looked like theyd never 
worked a day in their life. Some were dressed head 
to toe in neon and glitter, while others wore nearly 
nothing at all.
An outsider looking in might ask, what could 
possibly bring together all these people, from 
seemingly all different sects of society? The answer: 
Bassnectar.
Lorin Ashton  also known as Bassnectar  is one 
of the biggest names in the American electronic 
dance music movement. Producing a signature 
brand of dubstep that samples everything from 
hip-hop to heavy metal, Ashton has been releasing 
music under the name Bassnectar since 2001. In 
addition, he has been touring consistently since 
2005, and throughout his career he has gradually 
gained a reputation as one of the most skilled artists 
of the electronic genre in terms of live performance. 
Unlike many other electronic artists who employ a 
push play method of live performance that involves 
very little effort on their part, Ashton instead mixes 
tracks on the spot. This approach ensures that 
Bassnectar shows are both extremely energetic and 
very distinct from each other.
Its not just his technical skill that makes the 
Bassnectar experience a memorable one, however. 
The sound system he employs is loud enough to 
make your entire body shake involuntarily, and the 
massive screen that towers behind him flashes 
incessantly with everything from abstract visuals to 
a series of clips from Disneys Alice in Wonderland. 
A Bassnectar concert is a microcosm of what its like 
to live in the modern era: a constant and unrelenting 
sensory overload.
While sticking primarily to his impressive wealth 
of original material, Ashton also gave some other 
artists tunes  such as Kid Cudis modern classic 
Day n Nite and Azealia Bankss hit 212  the 
Bassnectar treatment. It was pretty disorienting to 
hear the voice of Bruno Mars singing Locked Out 
Of Heaven over the heavy womps and hard-hitting 
drums, but everyones allowed a few mistakes.
Any kind of human gathering this large and 
spirited is a pretty beautiful thing. Ages ranged 
from the teens to the 30s, but that was no matter: 
Everyone was simply there to dance away and 
enjoy the music, without worrying about tomorrow. 
Approximately 20 minutes into his over-two-hour 
set, the music suddenly cut out and Ashton started 
walking off the stage. The puzzled crowd began to 
shout, bringing the long-haired virtuoso back toward 
the microphone. Its Monday night; dont you guys 
have work and s*** tomorrow?
A sold-out Stage AE uniformly responded in the 
negative, and the assault on the senses resumed.
Joey Peiser | Assistant Pillbox Editor
Courtesy of MaryJanePoppins via Flickr
Advice for awkward people
Dear Matt,
I dont really understand 
most of your jokes. I 
mean, I do, but it usually 
takes me a while and 
you just sit there with 
this blank look on your 
face like, Holy crow, I 
just made the best joke 
of my life and youre 
not laughing in support 
of it. To be fair, I dont 
laugh that hard at jokes 
anyway, but I feel there 
is a distinct disconnect 
between your punchlines 
and my comprehending 
them (maybe Im not 
always sure when youre 
joking). I do get your 
jokes in the end, and 
thats what counts, right?
Sincerely,
Really Yucks Afterwards, 
Nonvoluntarily
Dear RYAN,
Its not you; its me. Wait, are 
we breaking up? You always 
seem to have seen all the 
goofy stuff that Im exposed 
to. I thought we shared so 
much knowledge of Internet 
and television pop culture 
that at any joke or reference I 
make, you will catch the line 
and rib on it further. If I cant 
show you funny Internet 
cats, maybe I can make you 
laugh about what happens 
when a room temperature 
superconductor walks into 
a bar. The bartender tells 
him to leave, and he does 
so, without putting up any 
resistance. No? Okay. Ill go 
for slapstick next time.
Everybody laughs at 
people slipping on banana 
peels, right?
Matt
Dear Ryan,
I can never seem to get 
you to laugh at my jokes. I 
dont know whats wrong; 
do they just go over your 
head? I suppose we need 
to do some impedance 
matching because I am 
an ECE major and you 
are a physics major, but 
I thought we were both 
sufficiently nerdy that 
the relationship would 
work. Do you not value 
all the time weve spent 
together?
Sincerely, 
Meaning Absent, Truly 
Tried
Dear MATT,
That right there is a loaded 
question. Of course I value 
the time weve spent, but 
 maybe  maybe its not 
you. Maybe its me. You 
know? Because you  
youre a really funny guy. 
Like, seriously. You tell really 
good jokes. 
But, I dont know  maybe 
Im just not attuned to your 
sense of humor. Or maybe 
 maybe I just dont like 
your sense of humor. I know 
thats hard to hear (or rather, 
read), but it could be true. 
Regardless, Ive been trying 
hard to understand your 
jokes, and I think Ive been 
getting better at getting them 
sooner, so  bear with me.
I still dont entirely 
understand the hydrogen 
joke,
Ryan
Need advice? Send queries 
to advice@thetartan.org.
About a relationship based on unfulfilling humor
Lorin Ashton, better known as Bassnectar, performs distinctive shows by mixing tracks on stage.

---------------------------------------------------

4reading
pillbox 10.14.13
Revolution: Its a term that comes to mind when thinking 
about the world today. Regimes are overthrown in 
the Middle East, and forces like the Tea Party and the 
Occupy movement call for dramatic changes to our own 
government. Even from a non-political perspective, we 
live in a time of great change, with smartphones, Twitter, 
and a whole array of social technologies that change 
how we get and share information.
This idea of revolution is the thematic core of Without 
Their Permission, a memoir by Alexis Ohanian, the 
30-year-old co-founder of popular viral-content website 
reddit. Throughout the book, Ohanian discusses the 
origins of the companies and websites he helped 
create, gives advice for those also interested in 
entrepreneurship, and emphasizes the importance of the 
open environment that helped facilitate such growth in 
the tech sector.
Ohanian starts off with childhood stories about his 
family, where his entrepreneurial spirit takes root. The 
anecdotes are often humorous: Ohanian describes 
pitching software to uninterested customers at 
CompUSA as a 14-year-old and recalls fellow reddit cofounder Steve Huffmans disappointment that the Alexis 
across the hall in his ?rst-year dorm was, in fact, not a 
girl.
Throughout the book, Ohanian imbues his stories with a 
sarcastic humor that helps portray him as a fully ?eshedout individual. When reprinting an email he once sent 
to Huffman, he apologizes that the keyboard he used 
to type it must have had a broken button that inserted 
bro throughout the email. Its self-deprecating, and its 
good to see such a successful entrepreneur make fun of 
himself.
Ohanian focuses heavily on the concept of gatekeepers: 
how media for art, products, and creativity once had 
to go through a middleman before reaching public 
exposure. Musicians had record labels, ?lmmakers had 
studios, and software developers needed distributors. 
But now, in an age when musicians like Macklemore and 
Ryan Lewis can release an album independently and 
have it go platinum, there is no gatekeeper. Distribution 
is as easy as posting something online, and public 
exposure depends on whether the masses deem it 
worthy of their time.
He emphasizes how this environment of an open 
Internet was crucial to the founding and continued 
success of reddit and nearly every other web giant out 
there. On this note, he heavily discusses the threat to 
this Internet openness that reared its ugly head last year 
through deliberations over the Stop Online Piracy Act 
(SOPA) and the PROTECT IP Act (PIPA).
It would have been interesting if Ohanian had tackled 
the issues that SOPA and PIPA created from a technical 
or entrepreneurial perspective. The truly compelling 
point to his discussion, however, is how non-technical 
people have taken advantage of an open Internet 
to change the world for the better. One example is 
that of Debby Guardino, a special education teacher 
from Virginia who utilized crowdfunding website 
DonorsChoose.org to raise over $800,000 for schools 
in Joplin, Mo., after it was hit with an EF5 tornado in 
May 2011. Ohanian emphasizes that without an open 
Internet, one of the only job sectors that saw growth 
throughout the Great Recession  technology  would 
be crucially hindered, and an entire medium for global 
humanitarianism would be rendered inoperable.
Without Their Permission is a good read, whether you 
are a budding tech entrepreneur or just have a passing 
interest in the Internet (which in this day and age should 
include everyone). Though at times Ohanian may come 
off as cocky  as evidenced by the title of the book and 
his unnecessarily repeated emphasis that you dont have 
to ask for permission to change the world  Ohanians 
stories are earnest and inspiring. Whether its his advice 
on how to get your startup company going, or how one 
act of kindness can have such a ripple effect on the Web, 
the reader walks away understanding what the Internet 
ultimately is: a revolution.
Josh Smith | Editor-in-Chief
Courtesy of USV via Flickr
In his memoir Without Their Permission, reddit 
cofounder Alexis Ohanian reflects on achieving 
success in the technology sector and offers 
perspectives for aspiring entrepreneurs.
Ohanian discusses the Internet revolution
The reddit co-founder offers advice for startups, describes advantages of an open Internet

---------------------------------------------------

web series
pillbox 10.14.135
Emma Approved gives Austen a modern spin
The Pemberley Digital web series strives to recreate the success of The Lizzie Bennet Diaries
Emma Approved, the latest collaboration between Bernie 
Su and Hank Green of Pemberley Digital, premiered 
online last Monday. The duo formed the production 
company Pemberley Digital after their success with 
web series The Lizzie Bennet Diaries, which captured 
the hearts of viewers and went on to win two Streamy 
Awards and an Emmy for Outstanding Creative 
Achievement in Interactive Media.
Emma Approved, was announced at VidCon 2013, a 
conference for online video creators, as an adaptation 
of Jane Austens Emma, a novel about a matchmaking 
young woman who doesnt exactly have her own life 
together.
Pemberley Digitals Emma (Joanna Sotomura) is a 
20-something member of the Highbury Lifestyle Group, 
Matchmaking and Lifestyle Division: In short, shes an 
online matchmaker. Shes an opinionated, fast-talking 
perfectionist who doesnt have time for business 
development, book-keeping, boring stuff  thats the 
division of her business partner and future love interest 
Alex Knightley (Brent Bailey).
The series is a compilation of the vlog-style videos 
Emma makes in preparation for the inevitable 
documentary celebrating her future achievements. Su 
described this Emma as Oprah for the YouTube Age 
to thevideoink.com, a characterization upheld by Emma 
herself. She says she will one day be like Oprah  
but better!  giving everyone a better love life just as 
Oprah gives out cars.
The ?rst episode is a true pilot, introducing viewers 
to Emma and her world. She begins by reading a 
short snippet of an article written about her, lauding 
her success as a professional matchmaker. In this 
?rst episode, shes on the verge of perfect success 
number 20: the marriage between cupcake mogul Ryan 
Weston (Gabriel Voss) and power homemaker Annie 
Taylor (Alexis Boozer). When Alex comes in to discuss 
business, viewers are able to see the playful relationship 
between the pair, which will eventually develop into a 
romance.
In the second episode, Alexs role is a little more ?eshed 
out: Hes there to make Emma think about the serious 
stuff, like what will happen if her perfect success rate 
is broken. It becomes obvious to the viewer that Emma 
doesnt like to think about the negatives and only 
confronts the possibility of failure when forced to do so.
With an already-rabid fan base (which raised over 700 
percent of the Kickstarter goal to fund The Lizzie Bennet 
Diaries DVD set), Internet success doesnt seem like 
much of a problem for Emma Approved. However, its 
the small things, like Emmas over-the-top winks to the 
camera, that could sink the project. The team should be 
wary of making Emma too self-con?dent.
Before beginning to write Emma, Jane Austen wrote, I 
am going to take a heroine whom no-one but myself will 
much like. Austens Emma meddled in other peoples 
lives, but she did so with only the best intentions. When 
she was wrong, she tried to make it right. Although the 
character has remained a classic, updating her story to 
the 21st century could prove disastrous. With so much 
technology at her disposal, Emma could lose sight of the 
good intentions at the heart of her meddling.
Even the idea of matchmaking for money seems a little 
out of character: Is she in it for the cash, or does she truly 
want to see people happy? Pemberley Digital needs to 
make sure that their Emma is still likeable and relatable, 
or else the audience will lose interest.
Installments of Emma Approved are released at 1 p.m. 
on Mondays and Wednesdays, with additional content 
released throughout the week.
Mairad Pettit | Junior Staffwriter
Emma Woodhouse of Emma Approved is 
Pemberley Digitals modern-day interpretation of 
the notoriously interfering Jane Austen character.
Courtesy of Pemberley Digital via YouTube
Brent Bailey plays Alex Knightley (right), Emmas matchmaking business partner and future love interest.
Courtesy of Pemberley Digital via YouTube

---------------------------------------------------

6television
pillbox 10.14.13
Warning: This article contains spoilers for the ?rst 
episode of American Horror Story: Coven, as well as 
spoilers for the ?rst two seasons.
The third season of American Horror Story premiered 
Wednesday amid a whirlwind of high expectations. Its 
second season was nominated for 17 Emmys, and for the 
most part, the ?rst episode  titled Bitchcraft  lived 
up to expectations.
This season, called American Horror Story: Coven, 
revolves around a coven of witches living in New 
Orleans at Miss Robichauxs Academy for Exceptional 
Young Ladies. Here, four young women are taught to 
hone their powers by headmistress Cordelia Foxx, played 
by returning cast member Sarah Paulson.
The shows various settings promise to lend themselves 
to an interesting season. The story jumps between 19thcentury and present-day New Orleans, and it is already 
apparent that boiling tensions from events in the 1800s 
will resonate in the present as the season progresses. 
The academy is stunning with its whitewash hardwood 
?ooring and ornate marble staircase, and the mansion is 
brimming with tension. The four student witches have 
already shown cracks in their solidarity, with Queenie 
(Gabourey Sidibe) injuring Madison Montgomery (Emma 
Roberts) with an act of voodoo halfway through the 
episode.
As per usual, the show presents a strong cast of 
characters who are sure to cause a stir.
Darling, you have outdone yourself. How ever did you 
think this up? asks a man  presumably Madame 
Delphine LaLauries husband  during the episodes 
opening sequence, set in 1834 New Orleans, as a young 
slave of hers places the head of a bull upon another 
slave. LaLaurie, played by Kathy Bates, is based on the 
historical ?gure of the same name who is now infamous 
for torturing her slaves.
Bates is a new addition to the repertoire of talented 
actresses who grace the show, and her appearance 
shows promise. Batess character is the most exciting 
in the episode, with the rift she has created between 
herself and Angela Bassetts voodoo practitioner Marie 
Laveau, her reappearance in present-day New Orleans, 
and her truly disturbing rituals like nightly blood facials 
to tighten her ?abby skin.
Returning to the cast after their absences from season 
two are Taissa Farmiga and Jamie Brewer, who played 
Violet Harmon and Adelaide Langdon respectively in 
season one. Their returns are welcome  especially that 
of Brewer, who plays a witch student, Nan, gifted with 
clairvoyance. Nan provides a sense of tension through 
her all-knowing and mysterious personality. Meanwhile, 
Farmigas character, Zoe Benson, promises to be a 
strong character who seeks justice in any way she can.
The shows opening titles are impressive. As in past 
seasons, the titles are accompanied by creepy imagery 
consistent with the seasons themes, as well as the 
shows disturbing theme music. Gone are the worn 
baby pictures and disturbed asylum inmates of the last 
seasons, replaced by voodoo dolls and ?gures draped in 
black stalking the woods.
While the ?rst episode holds much promise for the 
season to come, certain aspects of the show disappoint.
The show seems to have returned to a slower, more 
relaxed pace than the previous season. The asylum in 
season two is a place with little refuge, but this season, 
there seems to be room for safety within the almost 
inviting witches school and the streets of New Orleans. 
The witches go to a fraternity party  admittedly, 
where tragic events unfold  and they prod at each 
other over the kitchen table. The relentlessness of the 
second season is gone, replaced by dark humor, which is 
similarly scattered throughout the ?rst season.
However, there promises to be increasing tension as the 
show progresses. The potential for a bitter season has 
already been set up with the con?icts between Supreme 
Witch Fiona (Jessica Lange) and Cordelia, LaLaurie and 
Laveau, and Madison and the remaining fraternity boys.
While the character relations add unique tensions, the 
premise of the story echoes those that have been done 
before. Harry Potter has already claimed the idea of a 
boarding school for witches and wizards, and Disney 
has touched upon the premise with the Halloweentown 
movie series. There are even references to other 
witchcraft-centric stories in the episode: Fiona likens 
the mansion to Hogwarts, and she threatens to drop a 
house on her daughter  la The Wizard of Oz. One can 
only hope that the shows creators do not linger upon 
the wonder of the boarding school, but focus instead on 
the tension between the witches, LaLaurie, and Laveau. 
Laveau will hopefully make a breakthrough appearance 
in present-day New Orleans soon.
Most disappointing is Jessica Langes character, Fiona. 
Langes acting is, of course, stellar: She ?lls the role of a 
witch desperate for youth and full of arrogance. However, 
the character does not seem as strong as expected. In 
fact, she seems weak. She almost begs a man at the 
beginning of the episode to provide her with a youth 
serum, and she gives in to her disappointment by killing 
him when the serum does not work. From that point 
on, she seems to be making up for the youth she does 
not have by berating the young witches at the boarding 
school. Her title as a Supreme Witch implies that she 
has power and personality unlike any other witch, 
but her current portrayal doesnt live up to that name. 
Hopefully, her character will evolve into the headstrong, 
unrelenting witch that the title implies, rather than one 
who ?ghts with the witches her daughter teaches.
While the ?rst episode may not have the compelling 
pace or unique atmosphere of the second season, this 
third installment in the American Horror Story anthology 
is shaping up to be a free-for-all among a cast of strong 
female characters.
Braden Kelner | Forum Editor
American Horror Story: Coven shows promise
The third season of the Emmy-nominated series promises to entrance viewers with Bitchcraft
Courtesy of Wikimedia Commons
Despite the actresss impeccable performance, Jessica Langes character  Supreme Witch Fiona  is 
disappointingly weak, failing to live up to her formidable title.

---------------------------------------------------

music 
pillbox 10.14.137
After the sounds of footsteps upon a wood stage, notes 
escaping from tweaking instruments, and muddled 
conversations among the audience, there is silence, then 
a wave of music. This is the magic of the Pittsburgh 
Symphony Orchestra (PSO).
This weekend, the PSO continued its 2013-14 season 
with a string of performances. Hardly a month after its 
return from a European tour, the PSO is already off to 
a strong start, opening with a gala in late September 
featuring Yo-Yo Ma. Although Saturday nights 
performance did not feature musicians quite as high 
pro?le as Ma, it was nonetheless an enjoyable evening of 
wonderful music.
Once again, conductor Manfred Honeck was at the reins. 
The Austrian-born music director, who has been with 
the orchestra since its 2008-09 season, is very expressive 
and bold in his conducting, and Saturday nights 
performance was no exception.
The ?rst piece of the night was Samuel Barbers Adagio 
for Strings. A somber song full of pathos, Adagio 
functions as one organic, drawn-out breath. There is 
a very subtle tension and catharsis throughout the 
piece that the string section captured very well. While 
Adagio, as a well known piece, was arguably the main 
attraction of the night, the austere and re?ective piece 
was simply blown out of the water by its successors.
Immediately after Adagio was the dynamic Symphonic 
Suite from Jenufa, as arranged by Honeck and Czech 
composer Tomas Ille. Jenufa is a Czech opera composed 
by Leo Jancek that tells a twisted tale spun from two 
real-life incidents that occurred in the former state of 
Czechoslovakia in the 1880s.
Set in a remote Czech village, Jenufa is the story of a 
young woman, the titular Jenufa, who is loved by two 
half-brothers but only returns the affections of one of 
them, Steva. In a jealous rage, the other brother, Laca, 
dis?gures Jenufa with a knife, but is immediately 
remorseful. Months later, Steva leaves Jenufa because 
of her dis?gurement, despite the fact that Jenufa has 
just given birth to a child. At this point, Laca still wishes 
to marry Jenufa, but worries that he would also have to 
take care of Stevas child. Upon hearing this, Jenufas 
stepmother lies to Laca and tells him that the baby has 
died, and then later drowns the infant herself.
The music does an excellent job of capturing the drama 
and emotion of the opera; it could tell the story very well 
without any singers, actors, or dancers. A xylophone 
motif weaves in and out between each of the different 
medleys, almost like an alarm bell that wakes you up 
from one dream and into another. The music is highly 
temperamental, moving from a soft, sweet coo to a dark, 
stormy roar. There are moments of ubiquitous unease, 
moments where drums and brass come together in a 
solemn death march, and moments of a sincere and 
profound rebirth, much like the coming of spring after a 
long winter. The arrangement brings out the pure human 
emotion within the opera.
Mozarts Concerto No. 21 in C major for Piano and 
Orchestra, the next piece of the night, featured 
Yulianna Avdeeva as the piano soloist. Avdeeva, who 
won ?rst place in the International Fryderyk Chopin 
Piano Competition in 2010, is known for her formidable 
technique and intense intellectual rigor. Concerto No. 
21 may not be the immediate thing that springs to 
mind when one thinks of intense intellectual rigor, but 
nonetheless Avdeeva did a wonderful job capturing the 
tone of the piece, giving an elegant performance. As is 
typical of Mozart, the piece combines the stateliness 
and politesse of baroque music, a hint of the budding 
Romanticism, and Mozarts own ingenious, playful ?air.
The ?rst movement of Concert No. 21 brings to mind 
images of an evening ball, with guests dancing and 
gossiping, prominently featuring the enchanting chime 
of the piano. It then moves on to its famous Adante 
movement, a romantic and sensual kind of music that 
is easy to become lost in before the ?nal movement, an 
energetic Rondo.
The ?nal piece of the night, Antonn Dvorks Symphony 
No. 8 in G major was a strong ?nish to the night. Dvork, 
another Czech composer, was a great lover of the 
countryside, a ?erce passion that greatly carries over to 
his music. Symphony No.  8 feels like a breath of fresh 
air on a bright summer day as you travel down a country 
road, gazing at the wide open plains in the distance. 
Plenty of recurring motifs and melodies swirl around in 
the wind, but the piece is at its best when at its most 
forceful and bombastic. The ending  the last few notes 
of the night  was strong, vibrant, and de?ant.
Though arrangement-wise, the combination of the 
slow, solemn Adagio felt at odds with the other more 
vibrant, forceful pieces, the PSO delivered the kind of 
wonderful performance that has come to be expected of 
the orchestra.
Xiyu Wang | Staffwriter
Pittsburgh Symphony presents CMU Night
The orchestra continues its 2013-14 season with performances of Barber, Mozart
Courtesy of the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
Recently returned from its tour across Europe, the 
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra played Mozart and 
Barber as part of Saturdays Carnegie Mellon Night 
at the PSO.

---------------------------------------------------

8music
pillbox 10.14.13
A CaPittsburgh showcases campus talent
Annual charity concert features all six Carnegie Mellon groups and one guest ensemble
Coed a cappella group The Treblemakers gave a 
vibrant set featuring gifted soloists.
                  Jason Chen | Staff Photographer
Counterpoint, Carnegie Mellons all-female a cappella 
group, hosted its annual A CaPittsburgh event in Rangos 
Hall last Saturday night, showcasing the talents of all the 
different a cappella groups on campus. This years theme 
was Music is everyones possession, and the proceeds 
from the event went to Landfill Harmonic, a group that 
salvages garbage and reworks it into musical instruments 
for worldwide distribution.
The event was a great opportunity to see the diversity 
and excellence of the a cappella community and witness 
part of the musicians world. It was incredibly engaging 
because the members of each group appeared to be having fun, looking tight-knit and as they bounced to the 
beat of the songs. 
Counterpoint opened and closed the night, setting a 
precedent for the lighthearted feel of the evening and 
each groups excitement to perform. They were incredibly energetic from the very beginning, with their mashup 
Stereo Hearts of Fame, to the very end with a spirited 
version of Wannabe by the Spice Girls. They also performed Home with two soulful and hilarious soloists 
 senior communication design and human-computer 
interaction double major Maggie Bignell and first-year 
mechanical engineering and biomedical engineering 
double major Leo Zubillaga  and a beautiful rendition of Trouble Is a Friend by sophomore voice major 
Samantha Kronenfeld.
After Counterpoints opening number, the Treblemakers 
took the stage with inflatable instruments, immediately 
indicative of the character of the group. This spirit was 
certainly showcased in their first song, Love Shack. 
The rendition featured beautiful harmonies by first-year 
undeclared CIT student Sage Yort and first-year undeclared MCS student Kate Borst and a strong, entertaining 
performance by junior materials science and engineering major Jonathan Touchette. The group continued 
with a lovely version of The Hush Sounds Tidal Wave 
and ended strong with a clear, beautiful performance of 
Adeles Skyfall. Soloist and junior vocal performance 
major Bridget McCoy was incredible, and the arrangement of the backup vocals fit together perfectly.
Deewane, Carnegie Mellons all-male South Asian a cappella group, brought some international flavor with songs 
that fused Eastern and Western music very successfully. 
Their performances were light and gentle on the whole, 
with the exception of their last song, Treasure, which 
featured a lot of body and personality from soloists Haris 
Usmani, a masters student in music, and senior psychology major Shawn Gupta.
Christian a cappella group Joyful Noise performed their 
first two songs, Imagine Dragons Demons and Poisons 
Something to Believe In, in a clear and sweet manner. 
With their last song, they continued Deewanes international theme with Baba Yutu, the Swahili translation of 
the Lords Prayer. This group truly performed as a unit, 
and its members seemed have a lot of confidence in each 
other.
The Soundbytes were a unit in a different way  like 
one organism breathing, moving, and singing as one. 
Their arrangements were layered to perfection, allowing 
solos to break out when advantageous and folding them 
into the other vocals at other times. Their performance 
featured a good set list arranged in unique, well-thoughtout ways. They began with a bashful but deeply beautiful 
performance of Used to Love You by first-year architecture major Quinton Laurencio and continued with the 
heart-wrenchingly clear voice of soloist and senior computer science major Tyler Hedrick. Their set ended with 
the high-energy performance of Candy Man with three 
vocalists  undeclared CIT first-year Alexis De La Rosa, 
junior Bachelor of Computer Science and Arts student 
Divya Mouli, and junior psychology major Jaclyn Ross  
blended to perfection, with Ross offering mind-boggling 
notes  la Christina Aguilera.
All-male group The Originals was another ensemble that 
worked as one. The background vocals took a front seat 
in their performances, being intricate, interesting, and 
incredibly attuned to each other. This musicality was 
accented by their uniform movement as they sang. Their 
soloists were incredibly talented, and sophomore vocal 
performance major Albert Stanley gave a strong performance with a lot of personality that had the audience 
laughing. Their I Wish/Wild Wild West mashup was 
arranged especially skillfully.
Also featured on the program was the University of 
Pittsburghs PalPITTations, a guest group of Pitt graduate 
students. This group was more closed off to the audience, but the soloists opened up in very emotional ways. 
Most notably, during the groups performance of Creep, 
soloist Lindsay Johnson sang with a lot of feeling, and 
every note was punctuated by strong body language.
Throughout the night, the groups had the audience 
dancing in their seats, clapping along, and even crying 
at times. As each group brought its own flavor to the 
stage, audience members were able to see the common 
musicality and excitement of the night shine through, 
although each group took a different approach. The evening was an entertaining and enjoyable event that showcased remarkable talent while giving back to the musical 
community.
Gwen Luvara | Junior Staffwriter

---------------------------------------------------

dance
pillbox 10.14.139
Maryyann Landlord | Junior PhotographerPartners Eric Lee and Tiffany Tse dance the cha-cha.
Inspired by the hit reality TV show Dancing with the 
Stars, stars from Greek life and various clubs on campus took to the ballroom dance floor with members of 
the Ballroom Dance Club. These competed for the mirror 
ball trophy and money for their philanthropies in the first 
annual Dancing with the Stars: CMU Edition, hosted by 
junior voice major Taylor Rawley. Junior business administration and statistics double major Nancy Yue, the 
Ballroom Dance Club events coordinator, organized the 
competition.
The stars were paired up with their partners just two 
weeks ago, making for a quick, hectic turnaround from 
complete strangers to performing couples. On Saturday 
night, Rangos Hall was full of friends and fans eager to 
see these stars show off their newfound dancing skills. 
The event began with a quick video montage of each 
couple introducing themselves and their dance before the 
first couples took the stage.
Dancers wowed the audience with fierce tangos, quick 
jives, romantic waltzes, and saucy sambos, dancing to 
impress with tricky lifts, captivating spins, and lightningquick footwork.
On the other side of the competition, the judges were 
an entertaining and dynamic panel. The panel was composed of former professional ballroom dance competitor and teacher Christine Zona, former ballroom dancer 
Geoffrey Morgan, junior civil and environmental engineering major Michelle Couste, and computer science 
professor David Kosbie.
Though surprisingly insightful about the dances, the 
judges were also full of bad jokes, charm, and sincere 
compliments that kept the mood light throughout the 
evening. Following each dance, they gave their feedback  holistic if often humorous commentaries on lines, 
posture, energy, storytelling, and footwork. The audience 
was impressed by each dance and showed enthusiasm 
with loud cheering, but the judges went deeper.
Opening the show, junior computer science major Eric 
Lee and sophomore decision science major Tiffany Tse 
displayed strong technique with their cha-cha, but the 
dancers were critiqued for hesitating in their movements 
and for energy that wasnt entirely there. Junior decision science major Hannah Wirt and first-year computer 
science major Marcus Todd amped up the energy with 
an impressive swing number that got both the crowd and 
the judges excited, though both Morgan and Zona made 
comments on the lack of real swing dancing in the piece. 
Junior mechanical engineering major Katie Sharkey and 
junior biology major Yimeng Xu changed the mood with 
an elegant Viennese waltz of romantic and simple grace, 
before senior English major Hannah Polack and senior 
electrical and computer engineering major Victor Wang 
switched things up again with a samba that was provocative and exciting, although the judges noted it lacked 
some technique.
In many cases, judges commented on the relationship 
between the dancers on stage, with either praise for 
seeming genuine or criticism for feeling forced and awkward. More than simply whether feet were pointed or 
not, the judges also discussed artistic elements such as 
the dancers ability to communicate a story and interpret 
the movements in a personal way.
Although light hearted, the judges feedback treated the 
dancers as if they were professionals. Keeping in mind 
that the dancers had just learned the dances within the 
couple of weeks, Kosbie commented, I wish I could see 
this dance in a few weeks, but I think Im going to be 
saying that a lot.
As the evening progressed, the number of quirky tangents increased, with references to bad Pittsburgh 
drivers, the speed of burning salsa, and two of whether 
Carnegie Mellon can cure dementia purely through ballroom dancing.
Toward the end of the event, Zona made sure to compliment the entire group: I think that in the two weeks 
everybody did a wonderful job  students and the 
Ballroom Dance Club that put together the routines.
The winner was determined in part by a panel of judges 
and in part by the fans, who helped their favorite dancers 
win by liking photos on the Facebook page, buying tickets in dancers names and voting with their phones right 
after the show.
After all the dancers had performed, Rawley invited the 
audience to vote for their favorite dancers within the next 
five minutes online, and people quickly whipped out their 
smartphones to participate. 
The grand prize went to junior communication design 
major Sam Ahmed  representing Delta Tau Delta  
and his partner, senior psychology major Helen Chao, for 
their fast, furious, and seamlessly timed jive.
After the excitement of the results died down, the 
Ballroom Dance Club finished off the night with one last 
dance. In addition to presenting a stress-relieving, fun 
event, the night also raised over $800, half of which will 
be going to Delta Tau Deltas philanthropy, the Childrens 
Institute. Certainly a tradition to continue in the future, 
Dancing with the Starts: CMU Edition was able to combine dance, service, community, and humor into an 
engaging evening.
Sarah Moss-Horwitz | Junior Staffwriter
Editors Note: Taylor Rawley is a copy editor for The 
Tartan.
Students dazzle in Dancing with the Stars
The Carnegie Mellon edition of the TV competition brings student amateurs to the stage
Gisell Pardo and Prin Oungpasuk take the stage with a 
second rendition of the cha-cha.
Maryyann Landlord | Junior Photographer

---------------------------------------------------

10television
pillbox 10.14.13
Fantasy and reality collided once again on Thursday 
with the premiere of Once Upon a Time in Wonderland 
on ABC. The show is a spinoff of Once Upon a Time, now 
in its third season.
The show takes place within the Once Upon a Time 
universe, but follows Alice (Sophie Lowe) of Lewis 
Carrolls Alice in Wonderland as she searches for her lost 
love Cyrus (Peter Gadiot) in Wonderland, with the help 
of the White Rabbit (voiced by John Lithgow) and the 
Knave of Hearts (Michael Socha).
As in Once Upon a Time, familiar aspects of the story are 
contrasted by deviations from the Lewis Carroll classic, 
especially in character. In this ?rst episode, Alice knows 
full well that the mushroom will change her size, and 
uses it accordingly to ?ee from the Queens soldiers by 
shrinking herself and hiding in the bottle lying beside 
the pathway. Alice discovers that her convenient hiding 
spot is actually a genie bottle inhabited by Cyrus, 
who is willing to open his bottle to her, even after she 
threatens to eat the other mushroom half and shatter 
the bottle with her sudden growth spurt. Instead of the 
meek, curious little girl we all know, this Alice is a strong 
character who is not afraid to face danger to get what 
she wants.
Alice and Cyrus become fast friends, and eventually fall 
in love, but in the exact moment that everything seems 
to fall into place for the lovers, the Red Queen (Emma 
Rigby) shows up. During the ?ght that ensues, Cyrus is 
pushed off a ledge into the boiling sea that lies below.
Flashbacks to Alices time in Wonderland are intercut 
with inquiries into her mental health, taking place at 
Bedlam Hospital in Victorian England. Wonderland is 
?lled with vibrant colors and familiar scenes, such as 
Alice stealing a bit of magical mushroom and ?eeing 
from the Queen of Hearts who screams Off with her 
head! Meanwhile, the colors of Bedlam are muted and 
dark; gloom pervades the place.
Alice escapes from Bedlam and goes back to Wonderland 
under the impression that Cyrus is alive. It is revealed to 
the viewer that the Rabbit has lured her back by order 
of the Queen, whos working with Aladdin villain Jafar 
(Naveen Andrews). Hes after the wishes that Cyrus gave 
Alice, but the Queens motives remain secret for now.
Meanwhile, the Knave is reluctant to stay in Wonderland, 
unwilling to risk being discovered and punished for the 
things he did after Alice left. Although their initial search 
for Cyrus fails, Alice ?nds Cyruss amulet, a token that 
glows when she is near, and gains renewed hope that he 
is alive. She convinces the Knave to stay by promising to 
pay him in wishes.
In the ?nal scenes, a ?ashback to Cyruss supposed 
death reveals that he was caught by Jafar on a ?ying 
carpet and is the Queens captive, imprisoned in a cage.
The ?rst episode bene?ts from the set-up established by 
Once Upon a Time and the familiar story of Alice, so the 
show can jump right into the narrative. The weaknesses 
of the show will come not from the story, but from the 
production details. Since the show will presumably be 
set in Wonderland most of the time, viewers may get 
distracted by the low-quality graphics that make up 
the background and characters like the Rabbit or the 
Cheshire Cat.
Although Alice and Cyrus are the star-crossed lovers 
here, it is the chemistry between Alice and the Knave 
that compels viewers most. It becomes obvious that the 
Knave really cares about Alice  in a platonic way  
and is staying not just for the payment, but also to make 
sure she stays safe.
Once Upon a Time in Wonderland airs Thursdays at 
8 p.m. on ABC.
Mairad Pettit | Junior Staffwriter 
TV spinoff takes viewers down the rabbit hole
Once Upon a Time in Wonderland places a new, stronger-willed Alice in the limelight
In contrast to the dull tones of Bedlam Hospital, Wonderland a portrayed in ABCs Once Upon a Time in Wonderland is a vibrant world despite the low-quality graphics.
Courtesy of ABCTVONDEMAND via YouTube

---------------------------------------------------

comics
pillbox 10.14.1311
Kiltie As Charged by Charlie Shulman and Kairavi Chahal
cshulman@andrew.cmu.edu
Got Em by Doghouse Diaries
doghousediaries@gmail.comthedoghousediaries.com
Poorly Drawn Lines by Reza Farazmand
poorlydrawnlines@gmail.compoorlydrawnlines.com

---------------------------------------------------

12comics
pillbox 10.14.13
Hark, A Vagrant by Kate Beaton
kathrynmoira@gmail.comharkavagrant.com
Piled Higher and Deeper by Jorge Cham
jorge@phdcomics.comphdcomics.com

---------------------------------------------------

puzzles
pillbox 10.14.1313
Solutions from Oct. 7
CrosswordMedium DifficultyEasy Difficulty
Kakuro Puzzle: Medium Difficulty Sudoku Puzzle: Hard Difficulty
Sudoku courtesy of
www.opensky.ca/~jdhildeb/software/sudokugen/Kakuro courtesy of www.KrazyDad.com
Fill all empty squares using numbers 1 to 9 so the sum of 
each row equals the clue on its left, and the sum of each 
column equals the clue above it. No number may be used 
in the same row or column more than once.

---------------------------------------------------

14horoscopes
pillbox 10.14.13
1. Annoy
2. Classical beginning
3. Zeta follower
4. Amigo
5. Makes journeys
6. Impudent
7. Kitchen addition
8. Letter after pi
9. French pronoun
10. Mayor having judicial powers
11. Pong maker
12. Strikes out
13. Lauder of cosmetics
21. Upper limb
23. Diver Louganis
24. Nasal grunt
25. Female demon
26. Pertaining to bees
27. Large container
28. Pond scum
29. Cooking fat
31. Actress Davis
33. Tee, e.g.
34. Red as ___
35. So Paulo feature
36. ___ a high note
38. Ancient Athenss Temple of ___
41. Continue
42. Incident
43. Pliant
44. May ___ excused?
46. Barley bristle
47. Bed down
48. Greased
49. Hotelier Helmsley
50. Femme fatale
52. Sixth month of the year
55. The Company
56. Lion, tiger, leopard, or jaguar
58. Cigarette ingredient
59. Doctors org.
60. CD forerunners
61. Sugar suffix
1. All thumbs
6. Simmons rival
11. Summer drink
14. Pave over
15. Playwright Fugard
16. French possessive
17. Australian marsupial
18. Impassive
19. Cockpit abbr.
20. Urn
22. Be of one mind
24. Bondage
28. Court order
30. Smell in Apocalypse Now
31. Forest clearing
32. Leaves out
33. Isolate
37. Narrow inlet
38. Winning the race
39. Storage container
40. Mandarin
43. Paddock
45. Musical drama
46. Percentage of light reflected by 
a planet
47. One playing alone
50. Add sugar
51. Property claims
52. Bring bad luck
53. Xanadu band
54. Happen
57. Author Calvino
62. Dusk, to Donne
63. Cheers waitress
64. Lanterns
65. Palm Pilot, e.g.
66. Devoured
67. Efface
ACROSSDOWN
Horoscopes
aries
march 21april 19
Drama seems to follow you everywhere. The more you fight 
it, the more dramatic you will end up being.
taurus
april 20may 20
Dont try too hard to get even  things will even out on 
their own.
gemini
may 21june 21
Dont be afraid to let your imagination run wild once in a 
while.
cancer
june 22july 22
You have too much to think about and not enough to do. 
The quicker you change this, the better off youll be.
leo
july 23aug. 22 
Just because everyone claims its the best doesnt make it 
the best. Decide whats best for you.
virgo
aug. 23sept. 22
You strive to know it all, but sometimes its best to just relax 
and think about what you already know.
libra
sept. 23oct. 22
By focusing on one failure, you are ignoring all the 
successes in your life.
scorpio
oct. 23nov. 21
Dont let your guard down  people who seem to be telling 
the truth are often the biggest liars.
sagittarius
nov. 22dec. 21
You think youre out of luck, but youre just out of willpower, 
which can be easily replenished.
capricorn
dec. 22jan. 19
If you expect to find obstacles, then you will. But perhaps 
they are not obstacles at all.
aquarius
jan. 20feb. 18
Slow down and try to make sense of all the dizzying events 
in your life.
pisces
feb. 19march 20
A great weight is about to be lifted from your shoulders.
Kairavi Chahal | Comics Editor
Crossword courtesy of BestCrosswords.com

---------------------------------------------------

calendar
pillbox 10.14.1315
MONDAY10.14.13
Anna Getmansky: Democracy and Intrastate 
Con?icts. Baker Hall 136A. 4:30 p.m.
Anna Getmansky, a lecturer in the Lauder School 
of Government, Diplomacy, and Strategy at the 
Interdisciplinary Center Herzliya in Israel, will give a talk. 
Getmansky will review some of the most recent research 
on whether democratic states are more or less likely than 
non-democratic regimes to experience domestic con?icts 
such as civil wars and insurgencies or terrorist attacks.
TUESDAY10.15.13
Steve Brams: Game Theory and the Humanities. 
Doherty Hall 1212. 4:30 p.m.
A professor of politics at New York University and author/
editor of more than 18 books and 250 articles, Steve 
Brams will be delivering a lecture as part of the Lehoczky 
Lecture Series.
James T. Hynes: Jumps and Hydrogen Bonds: 
From Pure Water to DNA. Mellon Institute Auditorium. 
4:30 p.m.
Distinguished professor of chemistry and biochemistry at 
the University of Colorado Boulder James Hynes will be 
delivering a lecture as part of the John A. Pople Lectures 
in Theoretical and Computational Chemistry series. 
Reception to follow.
 Aida. Benedum Center for the Performing Arts. 7 p.m.
The opera by Giuseppe Verdi about the Ethiopian 
princess Aida torn between love for her enslaved 
country and love for an Egyptian general is playing at the 
Benedum Center. The opera runs through Sunday, and 
tickets can be purchased at culturaldistrict.org.
WEDNESDAY10.16.13
Taking Back Sunday. Stage AE. 7 p.m.
The emo-rockers will be twirling microphones as they play 
their classics and tunes from their upcoming album. Polar 
Bear Club and Transit are openers. Tickets are $25 and 
can be purchased at ticketmaster.com.
Zimmermann & de Perrot. August Wilson Center. 
8 p.m.
The two successful directors will be presenting a 
performance that blends theater, dance, and the 
circus. Featuring ?ve circus artists and dancers, this 
show promises to be unlike any other. The show will 
run through Friday, and tickets can be purchased at 
culturaldistrict.org.
FRIDAY10.18.13
Drake. CONSOL Energy Center. 8 p.m.
Having ditched the wheelchair, Drake will bring the gospel 
of YOLO and drop knowledge on anybody who isnt 
aware that hes the best in the game. Thanks, Drizzy, 
but they know. Tickets range from $28$98 and can be 
purchased at ticketmaster.com.
SATURDAY10.19.13
Unknown Mortal Orchestra. Altar Bar. 8 p.m.
The critically acclaimed indie rockers will bring their 
fuzzed-out, 60s psychedelia-inspired tunes to the Altar 
Bar. Tickets are $15 and can be purchased at 
ticket?y.com.
ONGOING
HOLDUP in the HOOD. 707 Penn Gallery. 
Through Nov. 3.
This art exhibit, based upon work the artist did with innercity children in the Manchester section of Pittsburgh, 
explores issues of race, class, and gender.
Proud to be an American? 709 Penn Gallery. Through 
Nov. 3. 
Pittsburgh photographer Rebecca Chiappelli explores the 
meaning of patriotism from diverse perspectives.
Our Town. OReilly Theater (621 Penn Ave.). Through 
Oct. 27.
The Thornton Wilder classic about life in a small town  
and just how extraordinary such a life can be  will be 
brought to the stage in an upcoming production at the 
OReilly Theater on Penn Avenue in Pittsburgh, directed 
by Ted Pappas and starring Pittsburghs own Tom 
Atkins. For performance dates and tickets, visit trustarts.
culturaldistrict.org.
Roads of Arabia. Carnegie Museum of Natural History. 
Through Nov. 3.
This exhibit transports visitors to the sands of Saudi 
Arabia, where recent archaeological ?nds rede?ne our 
understanding of the region. For more information, visit 
carnegiemnh.org.
14th International Exhibition of Botanical Art & 
Illustration. Hunt Institute for Botanical Documentation 
(Hunt Library, Fifth Floor). Through Dec. 19. 
The exhibition will include 41 pieces of artwork by 41 
artists from 10 countries. The Institute established the 
International series in 1964 with the hope of supporting 
and encouraging contemporary botanical artists. Every 
three years the International series features the works of 
talented botanical artists from around the world.
Yasumasa Morimura: Theater of the Self. The Andy 
Warhol Museum. Through Jan. 12
In this retrospective exhibit presented by the Andy Warhol 
Museum, Japanese artist Yasumasa Morimura plays with 
images of well-known cultural icons, placing his own 
face over portraits of ?gures like Marilyn Monroe and 
Mao Zedong to produce a provocative art collection. 
Admission to the museum is free with Carnegie Mellon ID. 
For more information, visit warhol.org.
Alien She. Miller Gallery (Purnell Center for the Arts). 
Through Feb. 16.
This exhibit examines the in?uence of Riot Grrrl, an 
underground feminist punk rock movement that surfaced 
in the 90s, on artists and cultural producers today. 
Admission to the Miller Gallery is free and open to the 
public. For more information, visit 
millergallery.cfa.cmu.edu.
Compiled by Joey Peiser | Assistant Pillbox Editor
Want your event here?
Email calendar@thetartan.org.

---------------------------------------------------

16gallery
pillbox 10.14.13
Sara Remi Fields | Junior Photographer
AB Special Events presented a petting zoo on the CFA Lawn on Tuesday, complete with chicks, 
ducklings, baby pigs, lambs, goats, miniature donkeys, a baby camel, and a baby zebra, along 
with free pony rides. The event granted busy Carnegie Mellon students a moment to unwind 
in the company of adorable, fuzzy animals.
petting zoo.
