TUESDAY
WEDNESDAY
THURSDAY
FRIDAY
Carnegie Mlions Student Newspaper Since 1906THE TARTAN
Volume 94, Issue 18tartan@andrew.cmu.edu
Campus construction cleanup beginsCampus services holds forum
by Megan Adriance
Staffwriter
Facilities Management Services 
(FMS) is nearing completion of the 
steam pipe construction outside of 
Doherty Hall. Construction crews 
have began filling in the ditch 
Thursday, February 24.
The project began as a response to 
a leak that developed in the steam 
pipe during the fall semester. FMS 
performed tests and found that the 
pipe should be replaced. The 
replacement pipe is larger and more 
durable to ensure a longer life.
The project was originally sched
uled for completion in January but
the weather delayed the process. 
During the winter break, we 
replaced that section of line and tied 
it in. It has been up and running for 
a month now but we have had to 
wait on refilling the trench because 
of the weather. Now that weve got
ten enough of a break in the weath
er and good enough conditions, we 
can fill it back in, said FMS ProjectManager Steven Guenther.
FMS did not want to begin the 
project in the winter. However, 
because of the risk of a loss in heat 
or hot water in the buildings on the 
north side of Forbes, the project 
could not wait until summer.
We havent had any problems 
with the heat or hot water in our
Construction crews have started filling in the holes in front of Doherty Hall due 
to the completion of pipe repairs that have been ongoing through the winter.
building this winter. Im glad they 
fixed the problem before it became 
apparent to us, said Anthony Rowe, 
a first-year CFA student and resi
dent of Morewood Gardens.
However, some residents of the 
fraternity quad have experienced 
negative consequences from the 
steam pipe construction. After the 
steam was temporarily shut off to 
aid in repairs, many heaters were 
left non-functional, some of which 
have yet to be repaired, said Ben 
Kay, a sophomore H&SS student 
and Kappa Delta Rho resident.
FMS has tried to minimize the 
consequences of the shutdown. In 
order to do this [steam pipe con
struction], we had to have two 
scheduled four-hour shutdowns 
during warm weather where we 
could tie the lines in. The shut
downs were scheduled in advance 
to allow us to eliminate any poten
tial for an emergency situation that 
could have expanded for days, said 
Guenther.
Many students have found the 
construction around the academic 
buildings to be inconvenient. I 
hope they finish filling in the ditch 
soon. The walkway gets muddy and 
crowded, said Nicole DeJesus, 
first-year H&SS student.
The closed section of sidewalk 
will be poured on February 25. We 
had a real high priority to get the 
section of sidewalk in front of the 
fence open for students. We went to 
some extra expense even though 
weather wasnt cooperating 
because we knew how important 
that walkway is for students, said 
Guenther.
Guenther said FMS has done its 
best to get the project done without 
disrupting the students. The closed 
section of sidewalk is expected to be 
open to students this week. The 
ditch will be filled in and replanted 
in the immediate future.
by Jennifer Resick
TUESSDAYUWA
Whats your beef with CMU? This 
was the topic of a meeting headed 
by Campus Services in which stu
dents and staff members collabo
rated on ideas for changes and 
improvements to places like the art 
store and the University Shoppe.
The meeting, held Thursday in 
the Danforth Lounge, was orga
nized by Patricia Stacer, director of 
Campus Sevices. Stacer began the 
meeting with introductions of the 
eight attending staff members and 
seven students. Our purpose 
tonight is to get opinions. We want 
to hear both the good and the bad 
so please dont hold anything 
back, said Stacer to the panel of
attending students.
Various subjects were brought to 
the table and each topic was dis
cussed in a question and answer 
form that facilitated discussion. 
The art stores operation and prices 
were among the first issues dis
cussed. Questions were raised 
about how to get more students to 
buy supplies and what improve
ments could be made to the system. 
People go to off-campus art stores 
because its cheaper, said a junior 
design major Roger Wei. What if 
we brought in art workshops and 
students attending them could 
receive substantial discounts on 
supplies? said Amy Daly, the art 
store representative. The sugges
tion received positive feedback.
Another potential for improve
ment is the idea of an online service
which students could order from 
and pay using a credit card or 
Campus Xpress. The orders could 
then be either delivered or picked 
up at the art store.
When asked how much the CMU 
logo was worth to students and if 
they want products with or without 
the logo, most students at the meet
ing agreed that if they were buying 
a product at the bookstore they 
would like it to bear the logo, but 
the extra cost should be minimal. 
We are one of the few universities 
in the country that is royalty-free.. 
We dont make a profit on logos, 
said Jay Marano, the CMU licens
ing coordinator.
Conversation also drifted toward 
the appearance of the logos them
selves. Student Nicole Ayala felt the 
See SERVICES, page 3=
Police arrest men for public lewdness
by Seth Mandel
NEHERYHR FIYUbA
Campus police arrested a total of ten men for open 
lewdness and disorderly conduct last weekend in four 
separate incidents. The arrests took place in the 
Doherty Hall A-level mens room after campus police 
witnessed the actors involved in various sexual activ
ities. Three of the actors were CMU students and the 
other seven were Pittsburgh residents between the 
ages of 28 and 60, according to police reports.
Chief of Campus Police James Lapaglia said that for 
about five years faculty, staff, and students have com
plained about witnessing such activities in this 
restroom. In the past, Campus Police has put posters 
up in the area stating that Campus Police monitor the 
location. The posters, combined with increased uni
formed patrols, had served as a deterrent and the 
complaints stopped for a while.When Campus Police received an increase of these 
reports about a month ago, they attempted to deal 
with the situation as they had in the past. Lapaglia 
said that since the complaints did not stop, he had no 
choice but to make arrests. Plainclothes officers staked 
out the area and observed if men stayed in the
restroom longer than a particular amount of time. In 
such cases, campus police entered the restroom to see 
if lewd acts could be publicly seen, he said. When they 
were, the participants involved were arrested.
The three CMU students involved spent the weekend 
in jail, according to one of the arrested students, who 
wished to remain anonymous.
I feel arrests were extreme, especially given the jail 
time that followed. I also think there were other ways 
things could have been handled, said the student. 
The situation was allowed to exist for a long time, and 
after.it was way out of hand, plainclothes police were 
used and arrests were made. Other efforts could have 
been made to clean up the bathroom and make it clear 
that the behavior wouldnt be tolerated, he said.
Were not making a moral judgement. Were mak
ing a judgement about what is causing alarm and con
cern for people trying to use public restrooms, said 
Lapaglia. This is not a victimless crime. [The victims 
are] individuals going into the restroom to use it in the 
legitimate sense and seeing open lewdness, he said.
Use of the restroom for homosexual activity has 
increased recently, presumably because of a Web site 
that lists it as a place where men frequently have sex. 
Lapaglia said that when asked, the majority of the nonSee BATHROOM, page 3
INSIDE THE TARTAN
Forum 
page 4 
Art & Living 
page L1 
Entertainment 
page 16
Engineering students and professionals from around the region gathered on Saturday to discuss the progression of women's roles in the field at the 
Women in Engineering: Coloring Outside the Lines conference hosfed by the CMU Society of Women Engineers chapters.
Look to these sections for updates, reviews, 
and recaps on whats happening with the 
recently released film Wonder Boys.
Sports
Carnegie Mellons basketball teams finish up 
their seasons at Emory University, 
page 6
Business
Get the scoop on local startups, 
page L6
Calendar
Find out which 
musical acts are 
coming to the 
Burgh, 
page L12
Students, staff, faculty form Anti-Sweatshop task force
this for about sue or seven months now. But 
when Chi Abad came on campus, I thought,
Finally, theres some interest.
Abad is a former GAP employee who came to 
CMU last November to speak about the various 
facets of sweatshop labor such as unfair living 
wages, child labor, lack of womens rights, and 
unsafe working conditions.
Maranos first major step in getting the task 
force organized was including a questionnaire 
in over 100 licensing renewal packets last sum
mer. The results of this survey were presented 
to upper administration, specifically the 
Division of Business Services. When Marano 
received approval for the group, he began the 
process of soliciting help from students, facul
ty, and staff to make up the task force.
One of these students is Bhumika Muchhala, 
a senior in social and decision sciences, who 
felt a need to address this issue on campus.
I know some people who definitely think 
that there is something wrong and need to free
their conscience, said Muchhala. One of my . , ,.. . . , , , .Jay Marano is a member of the task force formed to preSee SWEATSHOP, page 3 vent human rights violations dealing with the CMU logo.
by Greg Nofi
FHUWAUEYHyWHU FIYUbA
Last year, many campuses across the country 
took an active interest in the manufacturing 
process of their college apparel. In light of 
these events, Carnegie Mellon administrators 
endorsed a proposal for a Task Force on the 
Anti-Sweatshop Movement last November. 
This task force is now in the finishing steps of 
formation and hoping to crack down on human 
rights violations in the production of items 
bearing the CMU logo.
CMU Licensing Coordinator Jay Marano is 
the main proponent of this task force. He con
ceived the idea after attending several confer
ences addressing this issue. These seminars 
were sponsored by the Association of 
Collegiate Licensing Administrators (ACLA), 
for which he sits on the Board of Directors.
Quite frankly, there hasnt been an uprising 
from [CMU] students regarding this issue, 
said Marano. Ive been wanting to try to do

---------------------------------------------------

2THE TARTAN  FEBRUARY 28, 2000
*OFIRE+
Justice: Incarcerations double nationwide
WASHINGTON (AP)  The num
ber of criminals under 18 serving 
time in adult prisons more than 
doubled between 1985 and 1997 as 
states prosecuted steadily more 
young people as adults.
By 1997, 7,400 youths 17 or 
younger were committed to adult 
prisons on conviction in either juve
nile or adult courts. Thats more 
than twice the 3,400 young people 
sent to the nations state prisons in 
1985, a new Justice Department 
report shows.
Seven in 10 young offenders who 
received adult punishment in 1997, 
the latest year state prison records 
were available, were convicted for 
violent offenses. Of that total, 37 
percent were jailed for robbery, 13 
percent for murder, and 13 percent 
for aggravated assault, according to 
the report released Sunday.
Researchers say the young 
inmates by no means are overrun
ning the prisons adult population of 
2 million, and just 5 percent of all 
young offenders punished in this 
country serve sentences in adult 
facilities. But data suggest that 
today's violent young offenders are 
more likely to do prison time than in 
years past.
Thats partly because of an 
increasing number of state laws that 
take away their legal status as 
minors and make them more 
accountable, researchers say. The 
crackdown, fueled in part by highprofile school violence, has placed
children as young as 11 on trial in 
criminal courts.
Many states have increased the 
number of provisions that allow 
juveniles to be handled in the adult 
system, said report author Kevin J. 
Strom, a researcher with the depart
ment's Bureau of Justice Statistics.
Based on state prison records 
reported annually to the Justice 
Department, the report notes that 
while 37 states and the District of 
Columbia consider people of 18 
years of age adults for criminal pur
poses, most also allow certain cate
gories of offenders under 18 to be 
incarcerated in adult prisons and 
housed with older inmates.
The inmate data do not specify 
whether young offenders are con
victed in juvenile or adult courts, 
but Strom said it is known that a 
small percentage go from the 
juvenile courts to adult incarcera
tion.
The Justice Department study 
comes amid debate over the merits 
of meting out adult time for crimes 
committed by youths. Californians 
will vote March 7 on a ballot pro
posal that would make it easier to 
charge juveniles as young as 14 as 
adults for serious crimes.
By virtue of their rarity, school 
shootings have helped create a dis
torted picture about who young 
people are and the dangers that 
they pose to the rest of us, said Eric 
Sterling, president of the 
Washington-based Criminal Justice
Policy Foundation.
Historically, young offenders 
fates were mostly decided by juve
nile judges. But after a spate of 
drug-gang violence and school 
shootings in the last decade, state 
lawmakers decided adult prisons 
could more effectively deal with vio
lent or chronic youth offenders.
Since 1992, 30 states and the 
District of Columbia have passed 
laws that in certain instances send 
kids directly to criminal court. 
Through 1998, despite a 50 percent 
drop in the juvenile murder arrest 
rate, states gave criminal prosecu
tors increased power to bypass the 
century-old juvenile system or 
chipped away at options juvenile 
judges had for trying youth cases.
Youngsters yearly admissions to 
prison climbed steadily between 
1986 and 1995, then leveled off, the 
report said. Over the years, more 
youths were imprisoned relative to 
the number arrested. In 1997, 33 
youths were sent to prison for every 
1,000 arrests for violent crimes, up 
from the 18 imprisoned per 1,000 in 
1985.
Theres some justification for 
public frustration with the juvenile 
system, said Vincent Schiraldi, 
director of the Justice Policy 
Institute, a think tank opposed to 
mandatory sentencing. But send
ing them to the adult system en 
masse is no solution. Its hardly a 
resounding success for the people 
its got.
Police warn wild Mardi Gras participants
NEW ORLEANS (AP)  After 360 
tourists got busted last year for 
exposing themselves during the 
Mardi Gras season, police are warn
ing this years crowd to keep their 
clothes on or face even more arrests.
And as the holiday parades began, 
police warned hotel and restaurant 
owners that they will close down 
balconies if people toss beads or 
other trinkets from them. The beads 
are traditionally offered as rewards 
to people below for flashing flesh.
On Friday, the first big parade 
night kicking off Carnival, the 11 
days leading up to Mardi Gras, 
police arrested three women and 
one man for exposing themselves.
Not everyone thinks a buttoneddown Mardi Gras is a good idea.
Thats what Mardi Gras is all 
about  having fun," said Randy 
Avara, a member of a crew installing 
cable for new street lights.
It used to be that the exhibition
ism was confined to Carnival and
Mardi Gras, with mostly drunk 
women baring their breasts to get 
strings of plastic beads in the French 
Quarter. But these days, just about 
any day will do.
Annie Koenig of Salem, Oregon, 
and her husband got an eyeful two 
weeks ago. They were taking their 
tops off. The streets were packed. 
Guys were begging the girls, Mrs. 
Koenig said, shaking her head.
Eleven people were arrested that 
weekend for indecent exposure, 
said Lieutenants Marlon Defillo, a 
police spokesman.
The debauchery is getting expo
sure far beyond vacation albums. 
The Playboy Channel plans shows 
from the French Quarter this year. 
MTVs Real World has come down 
for Carnival. And many Web sites 
advertise photographs and videos of 
women baring their breasts for 
beads. Some are for sale, others can 
be downloaded for free.
Earlier this month, police took
1,000 placards around the French 
Quarter and asked businesses to dis
play them before Mardi Gras, which 
falls on March 7 this year.
Uniform and plainclothes officers 
will be vigilant in the French Quarter 
and WILL TAKE the appropriate 
action if the law is violated ...just ask 
the 360 people who were arrested 
last year for lewd conduct, the plac
ards say.
Last years arrests more than dou
bled the 163 obscenity arrests during 
'Carnival 1998, Defillo said. Of those 
arrested last year, 324 were out-ofstate tourists, while the rest were 
mostly from other Louisiana towns, 
he said.
Many visitors believe its legal to 
do this, he said. Rather than go 
out and just start arresting, we want 
to make sure visitors know that it is 
illegal.
Violators can get six months in jail 
and a $1,000 fine, though that is 
unlikely for first-timers.
Corrections & Clarifications
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of an error; please contact Editor-in-Chief Ish Harshawat at 
x8-2Ul or tartan@andrew.cmu.edu.
CARNEGIE MELLON! STUDENTS!
SAUE NADDI10NAI
$150
PEB-PEfiSQN OffTRIPSiTQ
CANCN!
and 7 nights of free dinner!
Call us at 1-800-293-1443 or go to
National News
Juror: Diallo 
verdict was clear
ALBANY, N.Y. (AP)  A member 
of the jury that acquitted four white 
police officers in the killing of 
Amadou Diallo said Sunday that the 
outcome was not happy, but clear.
Speaking publicly for the first 
time since Fridays verdict in the 
racially charged case, juror Helen 
Harder said the jury deliberated 
without discord before agreeing the 
law was on the side of the officers.
It turned out the only way it 
could turn out, Harder, 71, told the 
Associated Press.
Harder  who has nine children 
and 17 grandchildren  described 
the heartbreak of seeing Diallos 
parents sitting in the front row each 
day of the month-long trial.
I know the cops are happy. None 
of [the jurors] are very happy, she 
said. Because of pretrial publicity, 
an appeals court moved the murder 
case to Albany, where Harder, who 
is white, served on a jury that also 
had four black women and seven 
white men.
The three officers were cleared of 
second-degree murder and other 
charges in the slaying of Diallo, a 
West African immigrant.
The plainclothes officers claimed 
they fired 41 bullets at the victim on 
February 4, 1999, after he refused 
orders to halt for questioning and 
pulled out a black object they
thought was a handgun. Diallo was 
hit 19 times in the vestibule of his 
apartment before the defendants 
realized the object was a wallet.
Jurors have been mostly silent 
since the verdict, despite constant 
hounding by news organizations. 
Both Harder and juror Thomas 
Knowles said several jurors were 
meeting to consider issuing a joint 
statement.
The jurys black foreperson, 
Arlene Taylor, said in Sundays New 
York Post that the deliberation had 
. nothing to do with race.
The defense case hinged on the 
emotional testimony of the officers. 
All said they felt they had to shoot 
Diallo in self-defense.
I thought they were quite believ
able, Harder said of the testimony.
The judge instructed jurors sever
al times that by law if they conclud
ed that the officers reasonably 
believed Diallo was armed and 
dangerous, they must acquit.
NSA defends
eavesdropping
policy
WASHINGTON (AP)  Reacting 
to a spate of charges, a low-profile 
U.S. government spy agency is 
defending to Congress controversial 
information-gathering that alleged
ly includes eavesdropping on ordi
nary Americans.
The National Security Agency
mailed a letter to all members of 
Congress last week that says: We 
want to assure you that the NSAs 
activities are conducted in accor
dance with the highest constitution
al, legal, and ethical standards, and 
in compliance with statutes and reg
ulations designed to protect the pri
vacy rights of U.S. persons.
The NSA is less well known by the 
American public than other U.S. spy1 
agencies, such as the CIA. A joke in 
the intelligence community was 
that the NSA was so secret that its 
initials stood for No Such Agency.
In the CBS broadcast Sunday, a 
former Canadian intelligence agent 
said the NSA cooperates with 
Canada, Great Britain, Australia, 
and New Zealand to run a satellite 
listening operation. The eavesdrop
ping operation, known as Echelon, 
allegedly monitors phone calls, 
emails, and faxes in order to sift out' 
useful information about foreign 
governments, drug trafficking, and' 
terrorism. As an example, the 
Canadian, Mike Frost, said one 
woman ended up in Echelons data-; 
base as a possible terrorist because 
she told a friend on the phone that 
her son had bombed in a school' 
play.
In addition, the European 
Parliament in a report last week 
accused the United States of using' 
Echelon for commercial spying  a 
kind of industrial espionage  to1 
help American companies win con
tracts over European competitors.
World News
Iran reformers 
may back exPresident
TEHRAN, Iran (AP)  In a sign of 
an emerging rift in the reformist 
coalition that won Irans elections, a 
major faction said it will back a for
mer president for the key post of 
parliament speaker even though he 
has been increasingly considered a 
conservative.
The Executives of the 
Construction Party will talk Monday 
with other factions to lobby in favor 
of former President Hashemi 
Rafsanjani, said Mohammed 
Atrianfar, a top policy-maker of the 
party. The party supported 
Rafsanjani in the February 18 elec
tions.
Atrianfar told the Associated 
Press that Rafsanjani was a 
reformist at heart and could help 
the movement because of his influ
ence with the hard-liners.
But Atrianfar acknowledged that 
the other major reformist party  
the Islamic Iran Participation Front 
 bitterly opposes Rafsanjani. The 
front, as well as smaller reform 
groups, sees Rafsanjani as repre
senting the old guard.
This is the first informal nomina
tion of a candidate for the race for 
the speakers post  the countrys 
top spot after the supreme leader 
and the president. It could be a bat
tle that would expose the fractious 
nature of the new parliament.
Reformists won 29 of the 30 seats 
in the crucial district of Tehran. 
Rafsanjani finished 30th.
On Sunday, recounting was 
ordered in a few ballot boxes in 
Tehran following a complaint about 
counting errors by a candidate who 
finished 31st, said Mostafa 
Tajzadeh, head of elections head
quarters. The recount will finish 
within two days, but is not expected 
to change the overall result, he said.
The reformist coalition won 170 
seats in the 290-seat parliament 
with 65 seats to be decided in run
offs. Elections are not fought on 
party lines but political affiliations 
of most candidates are well known.
Tijuana police 
chief slain
TIJUANA, Mexico (AP)  
Assailants shot and killed Tijuanas 
police chief Sunday, pumping more 
than 100 shots into his car as he 
drove along a busy highway.
Alfredo de la Torre, in charge of
the police force in this violent bor
der town since 1998, was pro
nounced dead at the scene, said 
Enrique Tellaeche, a spokesman for 
the Baja California state attorney 
generals office in Tijuana.
Dozens of investigators combed 
the city and interviewed witnesses, 
but no one had been arrested.
He was well-known and wellliked. We didnt know he was having 
any problems with anyone, 
Tellaeche said.
Tijuana Mayor Francisco Vega de 
la Madrid issued a statement 
expressing his indignation and urg
ing investigators to get to the bot
tom of the case. He also appointed 
an interim chief, Tijuana police 
Commander Carlos Besneyrigoyen.
Torre was attacked as he drove 
home from Mass, unaccompanied 
by his bodyguards, on a three-lane 
highway that runs along the north
ern edge of Tijuana, Tellaeche said.
Riddled with bullet holes, his 
black Chevy Suburban with tinted 
windows crashed into a palm tree 
on the side of the road, Tellaeche 
said.
The windshield bore more than a 
dozen bullet holes and the three 
windows on the drivers side had 
been shot out, as was the front win-, 
dow on the passenger side.
mething to 
mile about!
Gentle Airjet Dentist 
Prompt Emergency Car] 
Fersonaliz
Call 681-8011
TUE SDAYWNHR FDY SIST bWAyNMWH eMy geaAnWR 
Take the CMU shuttle to our front door  200 North Craig StreetPEB-fiESQENOTRIC

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  FEBRUARY 28, 20003
CMU starts anti-sweatshop task force
SWEATSHOP, from page 1 
main goals is to give facts and 
information in a clear and articu
late way.... Everyone needs to 
know about this.
The objective of this organiza
tion, which met for the first time 
earlier this month, is not to conduct 
informational activities and raise 
awareness around campus, but 
rather to devise a code of conduct to 
present to the administration 
around the close of the semester. 
Marano has provided the group 
with resources, including a code of 
conduct template. But it is up to the 
remainder of the task force to vote 
on a new code since Marano is a 
non-voting member. Neal Binstock, 
assistant vice president for business 
services, is the other non-voting
member and acts as the facilitator 
of the group.
[This code] is the manner in 
which well do business with our 
licensees, and it will be incorporat
ed into our trademark licensing 
agreement, said Marano, who 
hopes this can be accomplished by 
July 1 since that is when all the 
contracts are manually renewed.
I think the hardest task for the 
group is to make a recommenda
tion as to which monitoring group 
the University should join, said 
Marano.
Currently, there are several anti
sweatshop organizations in the 
country, including the Fair Labor 
Association, the Workers Rights 
Consortium, and the Worldwide 
Responsible Apparel Production.
These non-profit groups actively 
support and verify licensee compli
ance to university codes of con
duct.
Once these missions of the task 
force are over, several of its stu
dents would like to continue 
awareness of this issue around 
campus on their own.
CMU isnt a major sports 
school where everyone wears 
CMU apparel, but a lot of students 
really do purchase these goods. 
So its important for the future 
that students know where the 
goods are actually coming from, 
said Shivdev Rao, junior history 
major and member of the task 
force.
[Ed. Note: Bhumika Muchhala is 
a Tartan Staffwriter]Doherty bathroom incidents cause arrests
BATHROOM, from page 1 
CMU actors told campus police that 
they learned about the restroom 
from the Web. One such Web site 
also lists similar locations at other 
universities, including several in 
the University of Pittsburghs 
Cathedral of Learning. When faced 
with a similar problem, Pitt offi
cials chose to remove the doors to 
stalls. Lapaglia said that he didnt 
feel this was an efective way to deal 
with the situation because it 
seemed to only encourage the 
activity. He also said that campus 
police were not made aware of inci
dents occurring at the other CMU 
areas listed on the site, including 
Baker Halls A-level restroom and 
the University Centers locker 
room.
This Friday, nine of the actors 
attended a hearing and agreed to a 
plea bargain where the open lewd
ness charge was dropped. The dis
orderly conduct charge remained, 
and a fine of $206 was assessed. 
The non-CMU affiliated individuals 
were instructed that if they 
returned to CMU they would be 
subject to arrest for defiant tres
pass. A warrant was issued for the 
arrest of the absent individual for 
failing to appear at the hearing.
CAMPUS POLICE 
FREQUENTLY PATROI 
THIS AREA.
Warning posters plastered in Doherty 
so-called glory holes" in an attempt 
Members of the homosexual 
community on campus said they 
wanted to stress that these behav
iors should not be construed as 
typical of members of the commu
nity. Its a shame that gay people 
as a whole sometimes get associat
ed with the actions of a few indi
viduals, and thats not fair. Ive 
gone out of my way to avoid that 
bathroom myself, and hopefully 
now it will be clean again, said a 
representative of Allies, a student
Anthony D"Auria/Photo Staff '
Hall basement bathroom stalls mark 
to prevent future incidents, 
organization for people who sup
port gays, bisexuals, and lesbians. 
I think that everyone, straight and 
gay, is glad that the police are out 
there looking out for our safety, 
said the representative, who 
wished to remain anonymous.
It is no secret that gay youth 
are at risk for depression and sui
cide, and the University has no 
interest in exacerbating their 
problems, said the arrested stu
dent.
News Briefs
PAT fees reduced
The Port Authority Fee has been reduced by $7 each 
semester, from $35 to $28, retroactive to the Fall 1999 
and Spring 2000 semesters. Students who were 
assessed this fee will have their accounts adjusted on 
March 30, 2000.
Michael Murphy, the dean of Student Affairs has 
requested that students allow this adjustment to 
accrue on their student accounts. Additionally, thecredit may be used to offset any campus charges 
assessed to student accounts for the remainder of this 
semester.
Attack attempted in Schenley
Last Monday a CMU student was lunged at by a 
white male while running along Schenley Drive. The 
male opened his car door as the student ran by and 
attempted to grab her with both arms. The incident 
was reported to the CMU police and the student was 
transported back to campus. While the male hadnt 
been able to touch her, the student was visually shak
en by the event, but refused medical attention or coun
seling. A search for the actor proved negative.
MbyeYgWI an 
Sara Stille
Campus Services looks for student input
One of the main topics at Thursday's Campus Services meeting was the need 
for improvements to the campus bookstore.
SERVICES, from page 1 
clothing selection could use some 
! improvement by making the logos 
i jess academic.
i David Post, University Shoppe 
I store manager, also threw out the 
; jdea of starting a new tradition with 
class rings. Instead of simply order
ing a ring and picking it up, students 
who had earned the right to pur| chase a ring would have it presented 
| to them during a ring ceremony duri ng their senior year. The 
I University would be selective in who 
could buy a class ring in order to 
; build the prestige, said Post. 
According to Post, many other uni| versities, especially in the Ivy 
League, have such ceremonies.
1 The next big topic was a discus
sion on why the bookstore isnt seen 
as a very inviting place. Maybe if 
i there was a place to sit and enjoy 
i pleasure reading books it would 
: make that aspect of the bookstore 
1 more appealing, said Bill 
t Thompson, a junior business admin
istration major. What if the UC 
| bookstore was located elsewhere on 
[ campus with a Barnes & Nobles type 
set up with a coffee and reading 
area? said Post. This suggestion 
[ was well received. It would make it 
more inviting, especially when we 
: dish out so much money for books 
every semester, said Dona Mock, a 
junior history major.
The discussion eventually turned 
to that of textbook supply and 
prices. Post explained the compli
cated factors that affect the price of
textbooks, including percentage of 
used books, type of texts ordered, 
and professor input. The faculty 
determine what texts are put on the 
shelves and when they dont hand in 
their order sheets in time, unneces
sary chaos results. If a professor 
plans to use a certain text again the 
following semester, he or she must 
notify the bookstore by a pre-determined date so that the bookstore 
knows whether or not to buy back 
student books. When professors fail 
to return their orders on time, the 
bookstore has no choice but to not 
buy back used books from students.While keeping a large percent
age of used books is what keeps 
prices down, many students dont 
sell their books back because of 
low resale values. Right now we 
have about 15 percent to 20 per
cent used books. [One reason for 
this is that] we teach a lot of cut
ting edge technology and you dont 
want last years robotics or com
puter science books, said Post. He 
gave the formula for determining 
about how much a used book will 
sell for. If its readopted in the fol
lowing term then well give you 50 
percent of retail cost. If CMU isnt 
using it again a national wholesale 
company may off you 10 percent to 
30 percent of retail. All used books 
are resold at 75 percent of the orig
inal price.
However, other factors, such as 
enrollment, affect buybacks. If 
enrollment decreases for the fol
lowing term the bookstore will 
only buy back the number of texts 
needed.
The ideas discussed at this meet
ing were in the planning stages, 
and seen as possible improvements 
and changes to some of campuss 
most used service providers.
the tartan online
The National Engineers Week Buffet Banquet was held in Schatz on Thursday. Faculty and students attended 
the dinner to end the weeks festivities and award the winning academic department in the Engineers Challenge. 
Different departments competed in both academic and sporting events throughout the week.
Crime and Incident Reports
2/19 SUSPICIOUS ACTIVITY, 
8:09 pm  Campus Police were 
called by an SEI security guard to 
investigate a large male who was uri
nating on the outside of their load
ing dock. When finished, he gave the 
exterior camera the finger and exit
ed the scene. Police checked the sorounding area with negative results.
! 2/22 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF, 
J.:24 am  Officers were dis
patched to Wean Hall to investigate 
n unknown object having from the 
Stairwell known as architectures 
ieap. Officers investigated the area 
$nd found a metal frame which may 
]?ave belonged to a broken keyboard 
lying on the landing. CPS was noti
fied to clean up the area.
I MEDICAL, 10:59 pm  CMU
MS and Police Officers responded 
ijo Kirr Commons to examine a stu
dent who was experiencing a 
ijlecreased feeling in his left middle 
finger tip after catching a frisbee in 
Gesling Stadium.
: 2/23 THEFT, 12:48 am 
Campus police officers arrived at
Scaife Hall just in time to see a black 
SUV driving away with nine bails of 
the Buggy Committees hay. The dri
ver was caught and admitted to tak
ing the hay for use as seats at The 
Frame. The officer issued an inter
nal citation for theft and observed 
as the actor replaced the hay to its 
original position.
 Campus Chief of Police James 
Lapaglia reviews all reports prior to 
release.
 Only three people on The 
Tartan staff see the reports: the 
Editor-in-Chief, the News Editor, 
and the staffwriter typing the 
report.
 All personal names of com
plainants, victims, suspects, and fra
ternities are omitted from the print
ed report. Ethnic descriptions and 
other personal details are given only 
in the context of complete descrip
tions.
 Not every incident that occurs 
appears in the report.
Compiled by 
Bryan Kaplan
Y2 Play?DfrCcl
More Parties 
More Action 
Best Hotels 
Best Prices
t.800.426.7710
HAMHdneHrWDAYHiaDc
is looking for experts 
in the following areas
- asp
 contextual design
- database design
 html
come help us design 
a great website. 
tartan@andrew
U2, SALLEY FIELD, ISABELLA ROSSELLINI 
PETER FALK, WOODY HARRELSON, ETC,
Theyve All Enjoyed Eating Here.
How About You ?THAI PLACE
Top 10 Thai restaurants in the United States 97 - 00 
lecled by International Restaurant and Hospitality Rating Bureau
ETC..
jlh-w
Selected a Top Restaurant in Pittsburgh 
by US Airways Attach, December 1999 
809 Bellefonte St.  Shadyside  687 - 8586 
ry our NEW LOCATION at 1034 Freeport Road 
across from WaterWorks Mall  784 - 8980

---------------------------------------------------

Forum
28 February 2000THE TARTANPage 4Information Systems Program fails to meet students needs
When H&SS introduces its new 
Information Systems Program (ISP) next 
spring, the college will wipe clean any suc
cess that was brought on in past years by the 
Information Decision Systems major (IDS). 
Any good intentions that this program had 
have been lost among the politics and 
deception of the several departments 
involved, with current and future IS stu
dents being those that will be hurt most by 
the new measures. The ISP program is unac
ceptable at this University.
Three years ago, three prominent mem
bers of Social and Decision Science (SDS) 
left the school, including the head of IDS. 
Since then, H&SS has done nothing to 
replenish the  IDS programs weakened 
resources. The ISP is a joint venture among 
English, SDS, Philosophy, and the Statistics 
Departments. Each of the departments will 
offer its own major in Information Systems. 
The existing IDS major will only allow 80 
students, with the other three majors having 
80 students as well. By limiting the program 
to 80 students per each of the four tracks, 
H&SS will be able to cap the number of stu
dents in the current IDS program, which 
currently is at about 400. In addition, the 
college will be able to solve the lack of fac
ulty within IDS by distributing resources 
across several departments.
In order to ensure that the quota is met, 
students who apply to the ISP program will 
be thrown into a lottery, and then will be 
assigned one of four majors. This flawed 
idea will certainly have an effect on the 
quality of students that the IDS program 
currently attracts. No high school senior in 
their right mind would choose information 
systems at Carnegie Mellon if they knew 
they were not going to be able to choose 
their concentration. Other programs in the 
University that use the idea of different 
tracks, which ISP seems to be imitating, 
include the Business Administration and 
Electrical and Computer Engineering 
majors. In these majors, students can choose 
their own concentration through depth and 
breadth requirements. The ISP program 
takes that choice away from students, a 
right that they pay to have. Instead they will
be herded up like animals so they can fulfill 
the quota of 80 students per major.
ISP has been hastily thrown together 
without thinking through its ramifications. 
By spreading information systems through
out the college instead of giving adequate 
resources to SDS, the home department of 
IDS, the college has curbed its spending. 
The loser in the ISP, however, is the student. 
They will be left with a poorly taught cur
riculum from members of the faculty that 
have little or no prior experience in infor
mation systems.
Currently, the IDS program stresses 
real-world examples and takes a technical 
approach to IS, preparing students for 
jobs. The goal of the ISP is to give students 
more of a choice in information systems. 
However, that choice is taken away when 
students are forced into a major. Also, at a 
recent town hall meeting, faculty indicat
ed that IDS is considered to be a liberal 
major. However, when students and 
employers are asked what IDS is, their 
answer is a technical major. There is an 
apparent misunderstanding by the propo
nents of the ISP about what the IDS pro
gram is trying to achieve.
Information systems is a technical major, 
and liberalization of it should occur in the 
way of providing students with a stronger 
ground to walk on when they enter the mar
ketplace. Strong technical communication, 
which the English Department seeks to pro
vide, for instance, is ah important skill. 
However, to give this skill only to those that 
only select the English Departments IS and 
technical communication major defeats the 
whole purpose of providing a broad under
standing of the field.
The solution should be to have one inter
disciplinary major. A major where all infor
mation systems students have a curriculum 
that integrates the several departments. 
When the new Dean of H&SS comes to th'is 
school in the near future, his or her first 
duty should be to reject the ISP. An even bet
ter idea would be for the Vice Provost of the 
school to take a long and hard look at it now. 
Even a shallow inspection will reveal its mis
guided intentions.Professors deserve respect
Recently, students have seemed to show a 
disregard for their professors. For example, 
students come to class with cell phones and 
computers with wireless ethernet. While 
such devices enable students lives at 
Carnegie Mellon, when they enter the class
room professors shouldnt have to deal with 
these distractions, and students need to 
respect their teachers.
Discussion on academic electronic bul
letin boards sometimes contains unaccept
able and profane language and conversa
tions. This was a major topic at a recent 
Student Advisory Council meeting, where 
such posts were found on a number of 
computer science bboards for courses such 
as Algorithms and Operating Systems. It is 
offensive to post such messages, and it 
undermines the professors ability to 
teach.
There are more constructive ways for stu
dents to vent their concerns for class. In gen
eral, students should not be afraid to speak 
directly with their professors during office 
hours. Professors should be encouraged to 
use early course evaluations (ECEs), in 
which students can express their opinions 
anonymously. Departments should set up 
anonymous email systems, such as those in 
. Social and Decision Sciences and Electrical
and Computer Engineering.
Professors and students devote part of 
their day to attend lectures to teach and 
learn. Therefore, students should not go to 
class with the intention of accomplishing 
another task. If students talk, do other 
homework, read novels, or surf the Internet 
during class, they create distractions for 
others.
Finally, students should not use classes as 
scheduled time to take naps. Sleeping in 
class is disrespectful to professors who have 
taken time to prepare and provide a topic of 
discussion and enlightenment for the class 
that day. If a student knows that he or she 
might fall asleep in class that day, it is prob
ably better that he or she not attend at all.
Students and their families pay money to 
attend and choose classes at CMU. This does 
not give them the right, however, to disre
spect their professors. Professors are not 
students customers. They are mentors and 
role models, and should be looked up to as 
an example of people that have devoted 
their lives to teaching and learning in the 
academic arena. As students on a first-class 
college campus, we should set examples for 
others and the incoming first-years by set
ting high expectations  both intellectually 
and as people with respect for each other.THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mlions Student Newspaper Since igo6 
EDITORIAL BOARD
ISH HARSHAWAT, Editor-in-Chief
SETH MANDEL, Managing Editor 
SARA STILLE, News Editor 
CHRISTOPHER MAY, Fbrum Editor 
CHRISTOPHER CHUNG, Sports Editor 
JOANNA SMILEY, Arts & Living Editor 
SRIRAM GOLLAPALLI, Science & Technology Ed. 
BRAD GRANTZ, Business Editor 
GREG NOFI, Entertainment Editor 
JUSTIN SUISSA, Art Editor 
BRYAN KAPLAN, Photo Editor 
MICHAEL ZIMMER, Dossier Design Editor 
LAURA MARTIN, Dossier Co-Literary Editor 
JOSEPH TAGUE, Dossier Co-Literary Editor 
JEN LIU, Advertising Manager 
BALAJI SARPESHKAR, Copy Manager 
BLAKE ENGEL, Personnel Manager
*Denotes acting editor or manager.
ASHA PATHAK, Business Manager 
LANCE BROWN, Co-Production Manager 
CHRIS MESSINA, Co-Production Manager 
KAI ZHENG, Systems Manager*
BETTY KIM, Darkroom Manager 
MATT BRUN, Special Projects Manager 
ASEEM GUPTA, Webmaster 
LAINE TOWEY, Assistant News Editor
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS 
Kristine Andreassen, Kevin Babbitt, Elaine Boland, 
Anthony Chao, Behnam Farahpour, Bradley Fearn, 
Rebecca Fribush, Derek Greentree, Cassandra 
Knight, Lorelei Laird, Lisette Miller-Dixon, 
Jonathan Pearce, Anne Ray, Brian Smith, Nathan 
Steinwald
Jusitn Suissa/Art Editor
UC foods quality, variety must increase
Abhyudaya Agrawal
Dining in the University Center isnt a 
pleasant experience for most of us. 
Moreover, the state of affairs has not 
improved significantly over the past years, 
and this is a problem that really needs to be 
addressed quickly. One of the biggest prob
lems with the whole dining experience is 
the limited variety of food. For example, 
there is absolutely no Oriental food 
(Chinese or Thai) available in the 
University Center, and given the diverse 
community of students, this is highly unde
sirable. Also, most of the food vendors do 
not offer a lot of variety. Si Seor, for exam
ple, has an extremely limited variety of 
Mexican food: not offering burritos, 
nachos, enchiladas, and chicken tacos, not 
to mention the fact that they do not have a 
menu that would let people choose items 
with different levels of spice. In fact, 
according to one student, Si Seor proba
bly serves the most insipid and overpriced 
Mexican food I have ever eaten.
The exorbitant prices for some of the 
food only make the dining experience 
worse. It is interesting to compare prices 
for some of the products that are available 
in the UC with other food vendors. Taco 
Bell, for instance, offers a taco for under 
$1.20, whereas Si Seor charges a whop
ping $4.50 for two tacos, with fewer condi
ments and less options.
The most fundamental problem, howev
er, is probably the poor quality of food. 
Most people would prefer not to eat at the 
UC since there isnt a whole lot of healthy 
or freshly prepared and palatable food. To 
quote Sameer Qureshi, a junior CS major, 
[the quality of food is] not too great. If I 
have a choice of eating off-campus, I usual
ly do that. Another student, who preferred 
not to have their name mentioned, felt that 
the food is severely lacking in variety, 
bland and over priced. This problem isnt 
necessarily limited to the UC, since eating 
pizza at the Highlander Cafe is still one of 
the first-year horrors. To top it all off, we 
dont have any place which is open 24 
hours.
While investigating this issue, I met with 
Harry Tsang, Student Dormitory Council 
Food Committee Chair, who said he agreed 
that some of the prices are high, the selec
tion of food is limited, and the food is 
sometimes not fresh. However, he did say 
that there would be changes coming soon, 
and in particular, more freshly-made food 
would be available. What is unclear is how 
quickly these changes would be brought 
into effect, and what specifically we should 
expect.
Changes are a good sign, but I think we 
need something more drastic. We really 
need to have some commercial food ven
dors on campus, like Taco Bell, McDonalds, 
Pizza Hut, Ben and Jerrys, or Baskin 
Robbins, and we must have some places 
open 24 hours. The quality and variety of 
food would increase considerably, since 
these are popular and well-known vendors.
Sadly, we have a very limited variety of ice 
cream on campus, and that is an issue that 
could be addressed by having a well-known 
ice cream vendor with many more ice 
cream flavors. Pitt, for example, serves 
Pizza Hut personal pizzas at very reason
able prices, and this is a really great idea 
which should be used at CMU since the 
quality of pizza at Pizza Hut is far superior 
to what is available anywhere on campus. 
In addition, vendors who fail to satisfy stu
dents should not get contracts renewed, 
and instead should make way for better 
vendors.
Mr. Tsang also pointed out that although 
food is a topic of frequent complaints, most 
of the complaints are verbal, and not put in 
a constructive form. Therefore, if any of 
you feel strongly about the poor quality of 
food, posting constructive criticism to the 
food bboards (assocs.sdc.food, and graffitd.food), would be the best way to voice 
complaints in order to get changes made. In 
addition, emailing Tsang at 
htsang@andrew.cmu.edu with constructive 
criticism is another way to make some 
changes.
It would be nice if eating on campus were 
to be students' choice, as opposed to the 
only recourse for first-year students 
(required to be on a meal plan) or students 
having short breaks between classes, and 
some of these suggested changes would 
certainly help accomplish this.
Abhyudaya Agrawal is a junior computer 
science major. He welcomes all responsible 
replies to his column.
Election process rivals Collosseum amusement
Sean Mintus
If you kids would do something worthy 
of berating, then I would be more than 
happy to write about it, and you wouldnt 
have to read another politi
cal satire. But since recent
ly, barring any fraternal 
melees, this campus has 
been about as exciting as 
reorganizing my sock draw
er, I have been forced to dis
cuss the next least exciting 
issue: politics.
Thus, despite my best 
efforts at keeping this col
umn from turning into one 
large political whine, I have 
decided to review the presi
dential election race. Well,
I dont really think of it as a 
race, seeing as how races 
are usually run, and a great 
deal of this election process 
is proceeding at a slow 
crawl. Nevertheless, the 
quest for a new leader, 
someone to guide us 
through the tumultuous 
beginning of the twentyfirst century, someone we 
can trust, admire, and 
blame things on, is underway.
As we all know, the presidential election 
functions as follows: after an individual 
determines himself fit to occupy the Oval 
Office, he travels to China, and returns 
with a whole lot of legitimate campaign
finance. This happens unless, of course, 
his parents are already rich, in which case 
he takes their money. Campaign funds are 
used to purchase nice suits, a really big bus 
on which to ride around the country shak
ing babies and kissing hands, and televi
sion air time, during which he runs ads 
telling you not to vote for his opponent.
Next come the primaries, where candiAdam Grossl/Art Staff
dates from the same party actually fight 
each other for the endorsement of that 
party. Thats right, donkeys and elephants 
engage in medieval combat right before 
your eyes, in an effort to gain their partys 
support (money). We are in the primary
stage of the election right now, in case you 
have been living in a hole, or at college.
After the primaries comes the actual 
election. This is where the United States 
citizens (well, about 67 of them) place 
their votes for whichever candidate they 
think would be best-suited for the office of 
President. Then, all the votes go to the 
Electoral College, (harder to get into than 
CMU) which promptly ignores 
everything that the public thinks, 
and casts its portion of the nation
al vote for whomever swore to 
give their state the most money. 
Enough with the processes, on to 
the candidates!
The last few weeks have been 
especially exciting (yawn) for the 
Democratic side of this political 
coin. Here, we have hopefuls Bill 
Bradley and A1 Gore. Gore, our 
current Vice President, has been 
taking time off from his duties 
(standing behind the president 
and clapping during his speeches) 
in order to blaze up the campaign 
trail like a (bottle) rocket.
Gores opponent, Bill Bradley, is 
doing everything in his power to 
overturn Gore. With a lower per
centage of the Democratic vote, 
however, all he has succeeded in 
beating Gore on is the number of 
people put to sleep during a 
speech. Actually, Bradley is, at 
the last count, so far behind Gore 
that I am fairly sure George Bush received 
more Democratic votes during his cam
paign.
The issue of health care has taken center 
See ELECTION, page 5

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  FEBRUARY 28, 2000
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon s Student Newspaper Since 1906 
SENIOR STAFF
Andy Francis, Emily Landes, KoichircT 
Nakatsu, Rim Svarcas
STAFFWRITERS 
Megan Adriance, Neil Babra, Thaddeus 
Billman, Grant Catton, Cliff Chien, Rob 
Cullen, Donny Debarr, Elizabeth Dodson, 
Derek Dreyer, Frank J. Fleming, Colt 
Foutz, Heather Frantz, William-Neil 
Guzy, LaRita Hamilton, Rosie Jones, 
Rachel Kingery, Cynthia Kos, Eunice 
Liew, Katie Kowall, Matthew Lanken, 
Erin Lucas, Peter Patterson, Jennifer 
Petrini, Srinivas Pullela, Anwesha 
Rakshit, Jennifer Resick, Gail Ronen, 
Lynn Tao, Guido Zarrella
ART
Matthew Blum, Jamie Divine, Adam 
Grossi, Reagan Heller, Alissa Taylor
COMICS
Martin Hock, Joe Hocking, James 
Kenney, Tom Lin, Chris Rgen
PHOTO
Katie Aemi, Anthony DAuria, Matthew 
Lanken, Michael Raisman, Peter Wang
DARKROOM 
Stephanie Chow, Cam Crews, Amy 
Solana, Peter Wang, Laura Wetzel
PRODUCTION 
Gopi Flaherty, Serena Lam
COPY
Stacey Becker, Joyce Boss, Christopher 
Dornfeld, Claire Jauregui, Lisa Ferrugia, 
Larissa Kasian, Kristin Lala, Matthew 
McHenry, Emma Rehm
JUNIOR STAFF
Abhyudaya Agrawal, Lily Ahn, Nicholas 
Bonaddio, Joseph Carrier, Michael 
Castellana, Krissy Choi, Michael Cook, 
Dave del Rosario, Shion Deysarkar, Jay 
Huang, Sara Henneberge, Bill Jerome, 
Douglas Jones Jr, Tim Lo, Shaina 
McGrath, Puri Miller, Sean Mintus, 
Bhumika Muchhala, Damian Olesnycky, 
Vijay Palaparty, Jodi Poniewaz, Beth 
Powell, Karthik Ramachandran, 
Christian Reed, Adam Retchless, Gabriel 
Sabourin, Vanessa Salas, Domenic 
Senger-Schenck, Adam Steele, Sabrina 
Small, Huiya Xu, Sheila Wang, Julie Watt
The Tartan is the student newspaper of 
Carnegie Mellon University. It is a weekly 
newspaper published by students during the 
fall and spring semesters, at no cost to mem
bers of the University community. It is print
ed by Western Pennsylvania Printing, Inc. 
Subscriptions are available for the semester 
or academic year. The editorials appearing at 
the beginning of the opinion section are the 
official opinion of The Tartan editorial board. 
Columns and political cartoons are the opin
ions of individual creators. The Tartan 
reserves the right to reject or condense any 
column or political cartoon. Letters to the 
Editor are opinions of authors who are usu
ally, but not necessarily, members of the 
University community. A letter intended for 
publication must be signed and include the 
writers address and phone number for veri
fication. Names may be withheld upon 
request. The Tartan requests that letters be 
no longer than 350 words. The Tartan 
reserves the right to condense or reject any 
letter. Letters to the Editor must be submit
ted by 5 pm the Thursday before publica
tion. Copyright  2000 by The Tartan. The 
Tartan editorial board reserves the right to 
withhold from publication any copy it deems 
unfit for publication. Office: University 
Center Room 314. Phone: 412/268-2111. 
Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/Carnegie 
Mellon University/Pittsburgh, PA 15213- 
3890.
Email: tartan@andrew.cmu.edu 
Funded in part by your Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress 
ISSN#:0890-3107. The 
Tartan is a member of the 
Associated Press.
Wonder Boys 
wondering
Justin Suissa
Lately many students have been 
getting quite upset over the fact that 
Paramount is only showing the 
movie Wonder Boys twice on cam
pus. This fine production caused 
quite a disruption on campus last 
year, but as aggravating as the film
ing might have been, I made sure 
not to scream Michael Douglas you 
suck! from the third floor of CFA, 
because that would have been rude. 
Since Paramount needs to make 
sure that the majority of the CMU 
community goes to the theaters and 
pays money to see this film, I now 
realize that the only benefit we 
gained from this production was 
getting to wait for a long time at dif
ferent doorways because filming 
was going on (there is some fine 
woodwork on many of these doors.) 
While this corporate policy may 
seem cruel and unfair, if we were to 
put ourselves in the position that 
Paramount is in, then one would 
certainly understand their actions.
Let me explain: When Beverly Hills 
Cop 3 came out, Paramount was 
extremely troubled because the 
movie did not do nearly as well as 
they hoped, and really spelled the 
end for the Beverly Hills Cop series. 
To put this in relative terms, it would 
be the television equivalent of Kitt 
getting laryngitis in Knight Rider. 
This tragic turn of events left 
Paramount with Star Trek, which, if 
you saw the last movie  dont 
worry, no one did  then you real
ize that they werent making their 
money there either. This leaves 
Paramount with only one last hope: 
Entertainment Tonight. However, 
John Tesh is off spreading his bad 
music across the country. To under
stand Teshs music, think generic, 
like Chuck Woolery. Youll under
stand why Paramount is in some 
serious trouble. If one were to look 
at other movie studios, like 
Universal, which placed all of its 
bets on a pig with no sense of direc
tion then you can only imagine why 
Paramount is in hot water.
Since it is quickly becoming 
apparent that Paramount is relying 
on this movie to save their company, 
I feel I should analyze the finer 
points of its star, Michael Douglas, 
as a public service to them. Recently, 
Mr. Douglas starred in some very 
unexceptional movies such as A 
Perfect Murder and The Game, which 
were both quite mediocre movies in 
almost every regard. While you 
could argue with me, youd be fight
ing with a piece of newsprint, a sign 
of serious mental illness. Before 
that, he was in The American 
President; which was a good movie, 
that was even considered for an 
Academy Award, when they realized 
there were no more great movies 
produced by major Hollywood stu
dios to be nominated for best pic
ture. While you might think that I 
am some sort of cynical movie fanat
ic, this is not the case. While I dont 
believe this film is any good, I am 
certainly not cynical. Like most of 
the self-loving males on this cam
pus, I, too will enjoy Wonder Boys 
because of Katie Holmes.
Next Week: Justin Suissa poses the 
question: would it be easier to vote a 
Muppet or Warren Beatty into 
Presidential Office?
Responding to a group of posts to a bboard which flamed a teacher, we decided 
to find out how students felt about student-teacher respect. We asked the ques
tion^______________________________________________________________________________________
Do students here have enough respect for Professors?A PERSONS OPINION
Compiled by Christopher May 
Photos by Behnam Farahpour
Vicente Malave
First-year student 
ECE
CMU police unjustly arrest sex bathroom patrons
pSflti
Jodi Lynn Poniewaz
The bathroom. Its generally regarded as a 
fairly private spot. But recent rumors and posts 
to the various graffiti boards may have led many 
to reconsider this notion.
Ten men were pulled from the Doherty A-level 
mens room recently on charges of open lewd
ness and disorderly conduct. Police began 
patrolling the area around the bathroom when it 
became known that it was listed on the Internet 
as one of the top spots in the country for gay sex. 
A bathroom on Pitts campus was also given this 
honor; Pitts reaction was to remove the doors 
from the stalls, a decision which I am sure left 
the men of Pitt simply delighted. CMlTs initial 
response was slightly more rational. However, 
how well known did they really make the fact 
that they were watching the area? My classes 
are all in CFA and Baker this semester; I dont 
spend much time in Doherty, and therefore can
not say if the flyers that were allegedly posted 
were, in fact, posted before the arrests. But even 
if they were posted, wouldnt it have made more 
sense to take a more active approach from the 
beginning? Invitations for sex in these bathroom 
stalls were allegedly given by introducing certain 
portions of the male anatomy through holes 
drilled in the partitions between stalls. It 
shouldnt take a rocket scientist to figure out that 
the best way to stop this behavior with the least 
embarrassment to all involved would have been 
to simply fill in the holes and to then check peri
odically that they were still filled in.
Arresting these men was, to put it mildly, 
overkill. CMU students have been issued internal 
citations for far greater crimes than this, if in fact 
this can be considered a crime. Inappropriate, 
perhaps; but a crime? The men were behind 
closed doors, making open lewdness a ridicu' lous charge. They were all consenting adults. 
Perhaps people entering the restroom could hear 
things, but you often hear noises coming from 
bathroom stalls that you dont necessarily want 
to listen to. At the most, I think that the police 
could have possibly gotten away with charging 
the non-CMU students with trespassing; but I 
dont see how consensual sex in a closed bath
room stall warrants an arrest.
Lets face it. Its true that the mention of the 
word bathroom conjures up images of elimina
tion and, in an ideal world, hand washing. 
However, Im sure most people would agree that 
for many, the bathroom serves many other pur
poses. Its a place to go for some quiet time when 
you inexplicably burst into tears in lecture. Its a 
place to comb your hair after a long, windy walk 
to campus. Its a place you can go to pick your 
nose or pick a wedge. In short, while hopefully 
not a home away from home, it is certainly a pri
vate spot away from home, and it ought to be 
respected as such. What goes on behind a closed 
stall door should stay there.
Now, call me naive, but in all my time at
- Carnegie Mellon (and were going on five years 
here) and with a fairly large number of gay male 
friends, I had never heard of the A-level mens 
rooms reputation as a gay sex hot spot. With my 
curiosity and amusement aroused, I had to see 
for myself exactly what it was like in there. So, 
after recruiting a random boy to check that the
bathroom was vacant, I rollerbladed in for a 
quick peek. Being a female, and leading a rela
tively quiet existence, I had never seen one of 
these glory holes and pictured round holes in 
the walls of all the stalls. The holes, as it turns 
out, are triangular. Now, whether this is symbol
ic or simply due to the fact that a triangle is prob
ably the easiest kind of hole to knock in an inch 
thick piece of plastic, I cant really say. But I did 
notice two things. For one thing, there was a lot 
of graffiti. But, to my dismay, much of it was 
scratched out, so I cannot recommend traveling 
to this bathroom for reading pleasure alone. 
More importantly, however, the first stall did not 
have any holes, meaning that, if you were to 
need to use the Doherty A-level mens room for 
its intended purpose, you could do so in com
plete privacy. In other words, no ones privacy or 
right to choose were really taken away here; this 
bathroom simply offered more options than 
most others.
It might be considered somewhat sad that 
these men have resorted to sex with anonymous 
strangers in bathroom stalls, but where is the 
crime in being lonely? Would the same reaction 
have occurred if it were made known that het
erosexual couples have a favorite hot spot for sex 
on campus? In an effort to protect its reputation, 
CMU has blown a relatively minor incident way 
out of proportion.
The way I see it, CMU is always looking for a 
way to make the top ten. Opportunity is knock
ing here ... why not seize this chance?
Jodi is a tree-hugging misfit with a passion for 
chickens and Volkswagens. She welcomes any sug
gestions for a direction to take with her life.
Chris Hayes
Sophomore 
Computer Science
Ben Pillet
Junior
SDS
Lara Panis
Sophomore
Policy and Management
Fani Pavlova
Senior
Computer Science
Americas search for a leader discovers inept politicians
From ELECTION, page 4
stage in this race, with both candidates deliber
ating the issue in a series of town meetings and 
debates after which the spectators were revived 
with cattle prods. Critics of Gore have said that 
his bland appearance is partially responsible for 
the apparent lack of interest in his campaign. 
Look for our Vice President to be dressed as the 
San Diego Chicken, and accompanied by new 
staff member, Bruno, a world-famous Bavarian 
circus midget, during upcoming press confer
ences.
On the Republican side we have John McCain, 
a Rock-Solid Republican candidate whose vot
ing base consists mostly of Democrats. His oppo
nent, George W. W Bush, an independentlywealthy reformed drug user who feels the need 
to concentrate on issues like tax cuts and moral
ity, has been described as a Bedrock 
Republican. A model of confidence, Bush 
recently elected to ride out the rest of his cam
paign from his Jacuzzi.
Also with a hat in the race ring is Alan Keyes, a 
Block-Head Republican whose credentials con
sist of holding the esteemed offices of vice presi
dent and president of the Ronald Reagan Alumni 
Association, having graduated from the TrickleDown school of politics, I would venture. 
Keyes persistence is unmatched in that he has 
received less than 5 percent of the primary vote 
in any state, yet continues to campaign with the 
fervor of a big scary kitty cat. Luckily enough, 
however, the struggle between Bush and McCain 
should provide endless minutes of entertain
ment over the next few months.
Therefore, I find the one redeeming quality of
this political primary perplexity to be the amuse
ment with which one can view it. No participa
tion is needed. You dont need to vote. Quite 
frankly, it really doesnt matter much. There 
have been several occasions on which a candi
date has won the office of the Presidency despite 
getting fewer popular votes than his opponent. 
What I will tell you to do is watch. Its not often 
that you get to see idiocy of this magnitude with
out having to pay for it. Now, I realize that the 
candidates are not terribly inspiring, their issues 
are fallacies, and efforts misguided, but at least 
they are all really unattractive and boring.
Sean Mintus is a first-year student and a profes
sional and creative writing major. He doesnt real
ly know what he is talking about, so you probably 
shouldnt have read this column.
A decent teacher gets the respect Yes I think they do. The professors who No, I dont think they do because a lot Yeah I think so. It depends on the major No, it just seems like students sit there 
they deserve. But professors who dont earn the respect get it. of the students here are arrogant and full I guess. and make fun of the teachers the whole
teach well dont get as much respect. of themselves. time.

---------------------------------------------------

Also new at the O:
DELIVERY
\7 ^
on DineEx and Campus Funds and 
Department Charges*
Cosset uoMwHt SroahNM 
beMyvoarNHt bdewrNWWo 
foMMNYHt eMy cDYNi 
lDW WD cNMWoDM mDW fDwHt 
gYNMar gYoNHt pAYwNYHt 
eMy bWNeh mDewoNHi
PHONE 687-8327
THE TARTAN - FEBRUARY 28, 2000
Mens season ends on low noteFollowing the ever-chan 
role of major league at
, Adam Hawkins takes a jumper in the Tartans loss to Emory University last Friday. The Tartans final record is 3-21.
by Nathan Steinwald
MbHUAYadUYHR FIYUbA
On Sunday, the mens basketball 
team lost its last game of the season 
in a year that has been mostly losses 
and little else. The final game of the 
season was against Emory 
University and the outcome was 
familiar to the Tartans. After falling 
behind in the first half and being 
outscored once again in the second 
Jialf, Carnegie Mellon was defeated 
84-70.
Randall McKinney led the Tartans 
with 18 points on 7 of 12 shooting. 
Ross Freeman scored a double-dou, bl and was the only other CMU
player to score in double digits, hit
ting for 12 points and leading the 
team with 11 rebounds.
Overall, the team did not play 
well. As was often the case, it had 
nearly twice as many turnovers as 
assists, missed badly from the floor, 
and shot poorly from the free throw 
line.
Emory, a better team but still 
mediocre, shot better than the 
Tartans in the first half and sealed 
its victory in the second half, mak
ing 14 of 16 from the free throw line. 
In the same half CMU only shot 7 of 
15 from the free throw line.
The season ended with CMU hav
ing struggled to a 3-21 record, with 
a 2-12 conference record. After the
first few weeks of the season the 
direction in which the team was 
headed was clear, and the only 
question was whether the players 
could improve. Unfortunately, they 
did not do so in any appreciable 
manner. The offense never pro
duced with consistency, and the 
once-active full court defense gave 
way to a more pedantic half-court 
defense that was still effective, but 
which was unable to win games.
Next year all but one player ' 
should return, if the team is lucky. 
Senior Chris Butsko will be the only 
departure due to graduation, after a 
season hampered by a knee injury 
from which he was never able tofully recover.
In addition to our Dogs, Burgers, Fries, and Subs, try our
NEW MENU ITEMS:
Baked Potatoes 
Onion Rings 
Reubens 
Shrimp Basket 
Fish Sandwich 
Fresh Salads 
Jalapeno Beef 
Portabella Burgers
Wing Dings 
Chicken Clubs 
Corned Beef Sandwich 
Chicken Parmesan Sandwich 
Cheese Sticks 
Grilled Chicken Sandwich 
Pastrami Sandwiches 
Roast Beef Sandwiches
RANDOM 
ROOM DRAW 
NUMBERS
will be electronically 
distributed on 
March 1, 2000 
Watch your email account.
A View From The Bleachers
by Matt Brun
Assault, drug use, drunken bar 
fights, even murder: Sounds like 
the evening lineup of Court TV, 
right? Try the daily Sportscenter on 
ESPN.
On Saturday, Anthony Mason of 
the Charlotte Hornets became the 
latest in a series of professional ath
letes to wind up on the wrong side 
of the law in the past few months 
after being arrested on assault 
charges for a bar fight in Harlem. 
Mason joins former Carolina 
Panther Rae Carruth 
and Baltimore Raven 
Ray Lewis (both on trial 
for murder) and the 
ever-troubled Darryl 
Strawberry (third 
career case of cocaine 
use) on this infamous 
list, and, with the excep
tion of Carruth, all of 
the cases happened in 
the last month.
Of course, lets not 
forget hockeys contri
bution to all this. Boston Bruins 
defenseman Marty McSorley is cur
rently under investigation by the 
Vancouver Police and the Royal 
Canadian Mounted Police for his 
two-handed.slash to the temple of 
the Vancouver Canucks Donald 
Brashear. Should the police get 
involved with the case, it would be 
just the second time in history that 
such action was taken for an on-ice 
incident, but in todays world of 
professional sports it would hardly 
be surprising.
In the good old days, way back 
in the 40s and 50s, athletes were 
regarded as heroes, and acted as 
such. Joe Dimaggio, Mickey Mantle, 
Johnny Unitas, JoeNamath; the list 
goes on and on. This was an age 
when athletes were just athletes. 
They were thrilled to be paid to play 
the games they loved, and never 
took their status for granted.
Even as recently as the 80s, when
we were treated to the wonders that 
were Joe Montana, Larry Bird, Magic 
Johnson, and Wayne Gretzky, our 
heroes were clean-cut guys. Sure, 
they hawked products like there was 
no tomorrow, but that was just a 
result of the spread of advertising, 
not a character flaw on their parts.
Now, however, the situation is 
completely different. Athletes leave 
college early (or dont go at all) and 
enter the professional arena expect
ing to be automatically accepted and 
revered by the fans. The role of pro
fessional athlete has become a 
smoke screen, a cover to allow
actions that could not be tolerated in 
normal society. Legal transgressions 
are merely the most glaring example 
of how bad things have gotten.
Why have things degenerated to 
this point? The cause seems fairly 
obvious: money. With contracts 
totaling over $100 million, who can 
blame athletes for not giving a sin
gle thought as to how their actions 
may affect their future?. A player 
taken in the first round of the draft 
often receives a deal somewhere in 
the $20-$30 million range with a 
signing bonus adding on another 
$10 million or so. With such a large 
amount guaranteed for just the first 
few years of his career and more to 
come through free agency, a young 
player is basically set for life before 
he even plays a game.
High salaries have also led to the 
most ridiculous of all transgressions, 
the holdout. We have reached the 
point where an athlete who feels hes
underpaid can simply refuse to17 
honor the remainder of his contract 
and force his team to either renegoti-!r> 
ate his deal or trade him. I may not!^ J 
be an economics expert, but Im will
ing to bet that if a person with a ndf-^i 
mal nine-to-five job tried this, theyd 
be out on the street pretty darn quick
 so why should the job of profefcsional athlete be any different?
The time has come for the league  
offices and team owners to take a 
stand. As far as holdouts go, the \ 
Ottawa Senators have set a prece- j 
dent this season that should be foK 
lowed by every team owner in*. 
every sport. When teamii;| 
superstar Alexei Yashin ; 
decided to sit out theni 
1999-2000 season fora^ 
new deal, team manager] 
ment steadfastly refused 
to negotiate. Not only has i 
an arbitrator ruled that - 
Yashin owes the team the i 
final year of his current, 
deal, the team has sued.fi 
him for lost fan revenue,^ 
over the course of the sea^i 
son.  '-)[! j j
League offices now need to take,;, 
an equal stand in the realm of other j 
transgressions. McSorley was sus- ; 
pended for the remainder of the , 
season for his actions, the longest , 
suspension in league history. This is 
certainly fair for an incident thatn 
happened during a game, but outnjt 
side, incidents demand harsher,, 
punishment. Pete Rose was banned;,;! 
from baseball for life for allegedly,^ 
betting on his team while manag7ir 
ing the Cincinnati Reds, yeft, 
Strawberry is on his third sul)tiH 
stance abuse offense. If he is not;[ 
banned this time, the precedent for;, 
dealing with such players will,. 
become even .more lenient untilJ 
future offenders have nothing tpv, 
fear for their behavior.
HidMatt Brun is a sophomore ECE 
major who, despite all these strong 
words, will continue to be a lifelong 
sports fan no matter what.
In the good old days,athletes 
were regarded as heroes, and 
acted as such.... They were 
thrilled to be paid to play the 
games they loved, and never 
took their status for granted.
5pm - 2am Daily
. bJiUU coMocAcQuestions?
Contact Housing Services 
at 268-2139 or via email at 
univhous@andrew.cmu.edu 
or our web page at 
www.housing.cmu.edu/

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  FEBRUARY 28, 20007
Focus turns to underdog NCAA basketball conferences
Full Court Press
by Pete Patterson
It is now the time of year when 
the college basketball world gets 
turned upside down. Suddenly, 
teams like Duke, Kentucky, and 
Indiana take a back seat to the less
er-known outfits such as Hofstra, 
Maine, and Bradley. The confer
ence tournaments are about to 
begin, and, for a week, the little 
guys rule the hardwood.
In the high major conferences, the 
tournaments are entertaining and
center of the college basketball uni
verse.
Its refreshing to see teams that 
appreciate the privilege to be able to 
play in the NCAA tournament. 
Hopefully teams like UCLA are 
watching the joy of these teams 
when their fans storm the floor and 
they celebrate their conference 
championship. The Bruins, who 
believe a spot in the NCAAs is in 
their birthright, are thinking of 
declining an NIT bid if they dont 
make it, as did Georgia Tech a cou
ple of years ago.
In the mid- and low-major conferences, 
the original spirit of the conference tour
nament is kept alive.
often provide great matchups. But 
are they meaningful? Hardly. They 
are often mere exhibitions in jock
eying for NCAA tournament seed
ing. If Michigan State and Ohio 
State meet in the Big Ten tourna
ment, the primary goal should be to 
not get anyone injured. They have 
the big dance coming up, and they 
have a prime spot securely reserved. 
Once upon a time, before billiondollar TV contracts and the 64-team 
field, the NCAA tournament only 
allowed one team from each confer
ence to participate. The purpose of 
the conference tournaments was to 
decide who this participant would 
be. In conferences such as the ACC 
and Big East, this aim has been 
changed to a different one  mak
ing money.
However, in the mid- and lowmajor conferences (those outside of 
the top ten in the power rankings), 
where two tourney bids are about as 
likely as the Cincinnati Bengals and 
Los Angeles Clippers winning world 
championships, the original spirit of 
the conference tournament is kept 
alive. Every game has the potential 
to be a teams last, no matter their 
regular season pedigree. Sure, they 
are often playing only for the right 
to get blown out of the water when 
reality hits and the opposing team 
has a name like Duke on its jerseys, 
but for a short time they are at the
Which tournaments stand to be 
the most exciting this season? 
Below are three that bear watching:
Missouri Valley Conference
The MVC has been one of the 
most competitive in the nation this 
season. Six teams are within three 
games of the lead, five of which 
have at least 18 wins for the season. 
Due to the balance of the league, 
only one will get a bid. Indiana 
State is currently in first place, prov
ing their early season defeat of the 
Hoosiers was not a complete fluke. 
Southern Illinois and Southwest 
Missouri State are right behind 
them, and Evansville and Creighton 
are capable of getting hot for a 
weekend.
America East Conference
This will essentially be a threeway battle between Maine, Hofstra, 
and Delaware. Hofstra has the play
er with the best name and maybe the 
best game in the conference. That 
would be guard Speedy Claxton, 
who averages 22.8 points a game. 
Maine doesnt have one transcen
dent star, but does have four starters 
averaging at least ten a game for a 
well-balanced attack that is hard to 
stop. Delaware is the wild card. The 
Blue Hens are third in the confer
ence, but the traditional conference 
power hosts the first couple rounds
Swimsuit models not as 
valuable as sports in SI
of the tournament, providing a ripe 
atmosphere for an upset.
Mid-American Conference
Theres no Wally Szczerbiak this 
year, but there is much more bal
ance in the conference. In a situa
tion similar to that of the MVC, the 
teams have been beating up on each 
other all season long. The confer
ence may be the most underrated in 
the nation, with defeats over higher 
profile teams such as Dayton, 
Xavier, St. Bonaventure, Rhode 
Island, and Michigan State in the 
non-conference season. Bowling 
Green, Kent, and Akron are the
Justin Suissa/Art Editor
favorites. This is a conference that 
should get two bids, but there are no 
guarantees.
These are just three of the count
less conference tournaments that 
will provide drama, excitement, and 
entertainment over the next few 
weeks. There will be buzzer beat
ers, big upsets, glory for the winners 
and despair for the losers. Then, all 
the attention will suddenly disap
pear when the last Cinderella is sent 
home from the NCAA tournament 
around the Sweet Sixteen, only to 
return a year from now when these 
small schools get another round in 
the spotlight.
SWIMSUIT, from page 8
Additionally, the magazine 
seems to be striving to make the 
sport connection more visible, 
including an article in which surf
ing champion Kelly Slater teaches 
model Michelle Behennah to hang 
ten. Many of the photos include 
sporting wear and this year marks 
the third that Sports Illustrated has 
featured a photo layout of athletes 
and their wives.
Granted, the less-sculpted cou
ples have yet to make an appear
ance. But this is at least more evi
dence that the magazine is con
sciously trying, if in fact it doesnt 
feel essentially obligated, to stick to 
its subject, which is sports, and to 
devote more space for a unique 
look at swimwear. Arguments exist 
to the contrary, I am well aware.
And justifiably so. The debate 
against sports news magazines pub
lishing this brand of commercial 
deification of what is essentially a 
freakish body form has been taken 
up in forums far and wide and in 
books such as Laurel Daviss The 
Swimsuit Issue and Sport: Hegemonic 
Masculinity and Sports Illustrated.
The magazine has a long way to 
go before it can free itself of the 
condemnation leveled at it for the 
way the big bucks swimsuit issue 
exploits women, people of color, 
homosexuals, and the exotic loca
tions that they breeze into and 
breeze out of without a second 
glance over their shoulders at the 
real people who live there and live 
in our world.
And Sports Illustrated may never 
rid itself of these complaints. As long 
as the issue is published, and as long 
as this is a free country and there are 
larger problems in the world than 
what brand of bikini to starve our
selves into, I dont think these voices 
of reason should ever fall silent.
At least there is an alternative 
now, and one which I admittedly 
only this year have had a chance 
and change in trance-like 
demeanor to notice.
Have I enjoyed the swimsuit
issue for the past 16 years that I 
have been aware of it, since 1984 
and Paulina Porizkova in a pink 
suit on the cover? Certainly. But I 
dont subscribe to the magazine 
just to get the swimsuit issue once a 
year.
I subscribe for Rick Reillys 
awardwinning column every week. 
And stories about sports personali
ties written by the best in the pro
fession. Well, much to my surprise 
and mild embarrassment, a day 
after opening my mailbox and com
plaining about the contents thei^- 
in, I received my standard weekfy 
edition, complete with the Inside 
the NBA I was loathe to miss.
Checking into this matter, I 
learned that Sports Illustrated has 
been offering subscribers the 
option since 1998 to call 1-800- 
528-5000 and request that they 
receive every issue BUT the swim
suit issue. The swimsuit issue is 
now a separate special edition that 
doesnt interrupt the regular flow 
of weekly magazines.
Though obviously a ploy to cut 
down on cancelled subscriptions, 
this is an option which shows 
another way in which Sports 
Illustrated is trying to address coniplaints.
Admittedly, after reviewing this 
years magazine, I have few, if any, 
complaints. There are certainly 
worse things in the world to chal
lenge my morality than the swim
suit issue.
I enjoyed the magazine for its brief 
stop in climates temporarily sunnier 
than my own, and its foray, however 
fantastically, into a world that Im 
not a part of, and have no real desire 
to be. Its fantastical. It can be pig
gish. In a way its beautiful. And its 
on sale the next few weeks.
Buy it if you wish, but do whatev
er you can to beat the winter blahs.
Colt Foutz writes a weekly spofts 
column for the Tartan. All thought
ful replies to this piece are appreciat
ed, and can be addressed ftp 
ff25@andrew.cmu.edu.
for those of you 
who wouldnt mind 
developing pictures for money,
THE TARTAN
has a deal for you. 
work for darkroom. 
tartan@andrew
If you are a non-business major and you want to improve your marketability,
krN meeH barDDn DF pAHoMNHH 
eW WrN 'Mo:NYHoWR DF SenoFDYMoe pNYhNnNR 
bAccNY pObL CYDwYec ,b gG 'B 
-AnR P 3 OAwAHW , Tt 1UUU
Learn the fundamentals of:
 Accounting  Marketing
 Finance  Organizational Behavior
 Hands-on market & financial research
 Business related computer applications
 Effective communication & presentation skills
 Prepare for the corporate recruiting process
Sophomores, Juniors, and Seniors will benefit from this rigorous, six-week
summer curriculum that will include lectures, case studies, company visits, 
guest speakers and student presentations.
For more information, visit our website at: 
haas.berkeley.edu/Undergrad/base.html 
or contact us via email at: BASE@haas.berkeley.edu
classified
Travel
Co Direct! #1 Internet-based company 
offering WHOLESALE Spring Break packages 
by eliminating middlemen! ALL 
Destinations! Guaranteed Lowest Price! 
1.800.367.1252. 
www.springbreakdirect.com
Last Minute Specials on Spring Break! 
Cancn! Jamaica! Nassau! Save an additional 
$150 per person to Cancn. 32 hours of free 
drinks! Call us at 1.800.293.1443 or go to 
5tudentCity.com
Mexico/Caribbean or Central America 
S229 r.t. Europe SI 69 o.w. Other world wide 
destinations cheap. ONLY TERRORISTS GET 
YOU THERE CHEAPER! Book tickets on line 
www.airtech.com. or 212.219.7000.
For Sale
North Oakland house, available 5/1, 4 
Bedroom, 2Bath, Large Rooms, LR/DR, 
Dishwasher, Parking included, Newly 
Renovated, Grad Student, $2100+ 441.1211 
or Page: 739.3946.
For Rent - North Oakland. Fabulous 1 & 2 
BR apartments. Luxury Building, Great 
Location. MUST SEE!! Call 412.683.8683
Shadyside/Beautiful two and three bed
room apartments, two blocks from Walnut
Street, carpeting, fully equipped kitchens, 
security, laundry, log burning fireplace, cen
tral a/c, deck. Available mid August. Rent 
$750.00 to $1100.00 plus utilities. 
412.461.5837.
Opportunities
Retail Clerk - Greeting Cards and Gifts Shop, 
Squirrel Hill. Daytime hours. Please speak 
with Mr. Stein Call 412.281.2700 or Fax 
412.281.2270
HELP WANTED SS 1,000 SS Fundraiser No 
effort Big Money!! No investment. Work 
with your friends! Get a free T-shirt tool. Cal 
Sue at 1.800.808.7442 ext 104
Escape to the Shenandoah Mountains of 
West Virginia. TIMBER RIDGE CAMPS, coed, 
seeking energetic, fun-loving staff to work 
with children this coming summer. 90 miles 
from Wash. DC. Top salaries, travel allowance. 
If interested, call 1.800.258.2267 or email 
TrCamps@aol.com.
SS Summer Cash $$
Student Business Mngmt/Sales position with 
national firm. Pays $10-$ 12 + commission. 
Available to Spph, |r, & Sr. only. For Info go to 
http://www.jablon.com
Balloon Artist/Entertainers wanted to work 
Pittsburgh Area. Restaurants and special 
events, night, and weekends. Basic balloon 
twisting abilities preferred. Will train potential 
candidates. Call 412.371.4899
Student Organizations earn S1000-S2000
with the easy campusfundraiser.com three houri 
fundraising event. No sales required. 
Fundraising dates are filling quickly, so call 
today! Contact campusfundraiser.com, 
888.923.3238, or visit 
www. campusfundraiser. com.
EARN BIG SSS IN OUR CAMPUS REP PROGRAM.; 
Build your own business, learn Web marketing 
and help fellow students with their studies by i 
representing one of the Internet's fastest 
growing free Websites. Apply today! 
www. blink, com/signup/cmu
Classified Rates
1-20 words..........$10.00/wk
21-50 words.........$12.00/wk
51-100 words.....$15.00/wk
MAIL TO:
The Tartan, Box 17 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-B890
Classifieds must be paid in cash or 
check before first run date 
On-campus departments and 
organizations may pay by journal 
transfer
Due by 5 pm the Thursday before 
publication
THE TARTAN
5568-21111

---------------------------------------------------

Sports
February 28, 2000THE TARTANPage f
Tartans lose at Emory, end season at 15-10
by Brian Smith
MbHUAYadUYHR FIYUbA
The Tartan women's basketball 
team was 14-9 after losing to 
Washington University two Fridays 
ago. With a winning record already 
under their belts, the players set out 
to finish off the season with two 
University Athletic Association 
(UAA) wins versus the University of 
Chicago and Emory University.
The Tartans did not disappoint 
their home crowd in their next 
game and beat Chicago 52-37 in the 
team's home finale on Sunday, 
February 20. At 15-9, the squad still 
had a slim chance at making the 
NCAA Division III national tourna
ment with a win against highlyranked Emory University.
Emory beat the Tartans once 
already this season, and came out 
ready to play on Saturday. The 
Emory team shot over 50 percent 
from the field in the first half, and 
went to the locker room with a 
38-23 lead. The Tartans made a 
good effort to come back in the sec
ond half but fell short and the game 
ended 67-59 in favor of Emory.
First-year Erin Brady led the team 
with 17 points, while senior Kara 
Coval finished perhaps her last 
game as a Tartan with a strong 
effort, scoring 12 points. Coval also 
came in second to Brady's 12 
rebounds with six, while junior 
Lauren Petruzzi added 12 points 
and led the team with five assists.
The game put the Tartans' final 
record at 15-10, 8-7 in the UAA. 
While their chances for an NCAA 
national tournament bid are 
extremely slim, the Tartans are still
Kara Coval looks downcourt for the outlet after getting one of her six rebounds 
in contention for the Eastern the UAA.
College Athletic Conference tourna
ment. Bids will be announced 
Monday, February 27. Finally, the 
loss at Emory and Washington's vic
tory over Chicago this weekend 
secured the Tartans third place in
More importantly, however, the 
team's improvement over previous 
years is almost immeasurable. It 
finished with a winning record for 
the first time since the 1992-93 sea
son and made great strides to setcourtesy The Emory Wheel
against Emory University last Friday, 
ting the stage for future years with 
an exceptional core of young ath
letes. Regardless of whether or not 
Saturday was the last game of the 
season for the team, the 1999-2000 
campaign is the most successful sea
son for the women Tartans in years.
Sports ShortsBaseball ready for spring season
Over the past several weekends, 
Carnegie Mellons club baseball 
team has been practicing  and 
practicing hard. The team, which 
coach Rich Griser describes as 
enthusiastic and energetic, had a 
four-hour workout over the week
end, and is readying for its season, 
which kicks off with a doubleheader 
against the Community College of 
Allegheny County (South Campus) 
this Sunday.
Griser, a first-year coach at CMU 
with 23 years of coaching experi
ence at the high school and college 
levels, believes that the Tartans 
should have a successful spring 
2000 campaign, which includes
games against many local schools.
I think well have a competitive 
season, said Griser. Well be able 
to compete with everybody, and 
well be able to win our share of 
games.
From the 18-player roster, Griser 
cites several returning players who 
should be key in the Tartans ability 
to compete this season, including 
sophomore infielder/outfielder
Nick Naviglia, graduate student 
pitcher/infielder Jay McCormack, 
senior catcher/first baseman John 
Moody, and senior pitcher/outfield
er Jon Mayes.
I think were going to surprise 
people with the talent we have, 
said Griser.
MbyeYgWI an 
Christopher Chung
Ice hockey team falters 
in West Penn semifinals
by Erin Lucas
TUESSDAYUWA
The West Penn College Hockey 
Association playoffs were held this 
weekend at the Indiana Ice Center 
in Indiana, Pennsylvania. Carnegie 
Mellon entered the playoffs with 22 
points and tied for third place in the 
division with Edinboro University. 
Indiana University of Pennsylvania 
finished the season in second with
23 points while Robert Morris 
College maintained 33 points and a 
healthy first place finish.
The Tartans first-round opponent 
was Slippery Rock University, which 
was ranked fourth in the league. 
Carnegie Mellon clearly dominated 
this game from start to finish. In the 
first period the Tartans accumulat
ed thirteen shots on goal compared 
to Slippery Rocks four. Despite the 
number of shots, Carnegie Mellon 
was only able to capitalize on one 
from senior captain Dan Grosso, 
with an assist from first-year Rob 
Ready. The Tartans carried a 1-0 
lead into the second period.
Carnegie Mellon carried its 
momentum into the second period 
with twice as many shots as 
Slippery Rock and the only goal of 
the period scored at 6:18 by Ready 
with assists from Grosso and grad
uate student Chris Killiam. Strong 
defensive play and outstanding 
goaltending by Gil Min kept 
Slippery Rock shut out through the 
end of the period.
The pace picked up in the third 
period with a total of four goals 
scored. Graduate student Esa 
Ylipahkala scored the first of the 
period during a Tartan power play 
at 11:33, with an assist from sopho
more Eliot Minichiello. Slippery 
Rock answered back a minute later 
with a power-play goal of its own, 
which brought the score to 3-1. 
Ylipahkala ended any hopes of a 
Slippery Rock comeback with a 
goal at 5:40 and senior P.J. 
Grzywacz increased the lead with a 
final goal in the closing minutes of 
the game. With Slippery Rock elim
inated, Carnegie Mellon moved 
onto the semifinals on Saturday.
Saturdays game promised to be
a good one and certainly deliv
ered. Carnegie Mellon was 
matched against Robert Morris 
College. This team dominated 
other teams in finishing in first 
place during the season, and, in 
addition, they sustained only one 
loss during the entire year. That 
single loss, however, was to 
Carnegie Mellon last November.
This game was fast-paced and 
high-scoring. In the end, it could 
have gone either way. The first 
period started off extremely well 
for Carnegie Mellon, as Ylipahkala 
scored the first goal of the game 
less than a minute into play. 
Robert Morris was able to add one 
of its own five minutes later at 
11:27. However, it was Carnegie 
Mellon that ended up winning the 
period as Ready buried a shot at 
7:25 with an assist from sopho
more Chris Kennedy.
The second period did not go well 
for the Tartans. Robert Morris domi
nated with thirteen shots as opposed 
to Carnegie Mellons four. Robert 
Morris struck first with a goal within 
the first minute of the second period. 
However, halfway through the peri
od Ylipahkala regained the lead for 
Carnegie Mellon with an amazing 
unassisted goal.
However, in the last minutes of 
the period things deteriorated for 
the Tartans as they sustained 
numerous penalties and at one 
point gave Robert Morris a two 
man advantage for almost 
minute and a half. Robert Morris 
capitalized on this advantage with 
two power-play goals in the last 
five minutes of the period. Going 
into the third Robert Morris held a 
4-3 lead.
Carnegie Mellon knotted the 
score again halfway through the 
third period with a power-play 
goal. The period was close, with 
both teams making comparable 
shots and forcing good scoring 
opportunities. However, in the end 
it was Robert Morris that took the 
victory. A goal at 5 :19 gave Robert 
Morris a 5-4 lead into the final 
minutes of play and, and with 47 
seconds remaining, an empty-net 
goal sealed the victory and the 
Tartans successful season.
Debating the (Swimsuit) issue: SI remains a sports magazine
I Column As I See Em
by Colt Foutz
Quick, someone call the stress 
police and sign me up for the 
month-long Carnival Cruise StirCrazy special. Ive come down with 
a bad case of cabin fever, and dinner 
reservations with Kathie Lee and 
Frank may be my last chance to 
escape the throes of winter demen
tia.
In the midst of the heat wave last 
week that turned Carnegie Mellon 
into a college campus again, com
plete with Frisbees flying across the 
Cut, music blaring from open dorm 
windows, and students lingering 
long enough outside with their 
lunches to allow the unique odor of 
Srees to mingle with that of 
Facilities Management readying the 
grounds for the annual pre-graduation manuring, my mind was far 
away from the frolic and fun of the 
seventy-degree sun.
As the rest of the student popula
tion performed a mid-February rite 
of spring, I found myself lamenting 
the fact that Id have to hang up my 
sub-zero running suit. As the rest of 
campus emerged from their hiber
nation hollows decked out in bright
ly colored t-shirts and cutoff shorts, 
I stubbornly chose a dark gray 
sweater. As the sun shone brightly 
overhead in a clear blue sky with 
barely a trace of clouds, I left home 
with my umbrella. Just in case.
Perhaps worst of all, though, as 
the rest of the world opened their 
mailboxes or perused the racks of 
the newsstands last Wednesday to 
find the latest Sports Illustrated 
Swimsuit Issue emanating its annu
al warmth there, all I could whine to 
myself was: What?!? No Inside the 
NBA this week?
So, yeah, Im certifiable.
Really, when you find yourself 
face to face (or as close as any of us 
are ever going to get) with super
model Daniela Pestova and all you 
can think is, Darn it! I was so look
ing forward to that in-depth look at 
the impact of Russian players on the 
NHL in the last decade, then 
buddy, its time to get the sandals 
and suntan lotion out from the clos
et and head down South for a while 
to get a healthy dose of perspective. 
Or, for starters, try taking a look at 
the latest issue of Sports Illustrated. 
HINT: it's the one with the beautiful 
blonde on the cover!
Let this weeks column serve as 
your interactive guide to a magazine 
that roughly 64 million other people 
are also flipping through this week. 
And may I humbly offer my services 
as your skeptical tour guide, as I 
stubbornly cling to the idea that if 
Im going to miss a week of solid
in Sports Illustrated the other 51 
weeks of the year. And thats not all 
bad.
Aside from the annual fawning 
tributes to all things bikini in the 
articles by Austin Murphy and Steve 
Rushin, the swimsuit issue high
lights sports and activities that the 
weekly reader may not have had 
much exposure to. Its as if youve 
picked up an issue of Surfer or 
American Yachtsman instead, and if 
you can divert your attention from 
the photo spreads long enough to 
digest a few pages of text, youll 
learn something new.
For instance, in this years issue, 
the reader is introduced to dare
devil watersportsman Laird
The Sports Illustrated Swimsuit Issue 
seems to be trying to tread the line 
between a tasteful display of summer 
fashion and a tantalizing glimpse of exot
ic women in equally exotic locales.
sports reporting, it better be worth 
it.
The first thing you notice about 
the swimsuit issue is the sheer size 
of the thing. This years edition 
came in at a hefty 218 pages, loaded 
mostly with advertisements and 
advertisements posing as pictures. 
Every picture of every model has a 
side bar naming the maker of the 
swimsuit that she wears and how 
much it costs, and theres an index 
in the back that tells you where you 
can buy the suits pictured in the 
magazine.
All told, there are only five honest 
to goodness articles hidden in the 
midst of all the bikini bliss. These 
articles (seriously!) are what I 
turned to first.
One thing about the stories that 
are published in the swimsuit issue 
is that theres a very slim chance 
that youll read anything like them
Hamilton, the husband of star volleyballer Gabriele Reese. The pic
tures in this story, in my opinion, are 
the most thrilling to be found in the 
magazine. Sixty-foot waves and 
images of Hamilton jumping from a 
helicopter with a specially designed 
surfboard strapped to his feet 
upstage even the likes of Heidi Klum 
in terms of heart palpitations per 
page. And tales of Hamiltons 
exploits and endeavors figuring out 
how to catch waves that would 
crush any other mere mortals 
bones, or cause the other 95 percent 
of us to quake in fear, shed light oh a 
side of sports rarely seen in the 
everyday media. Catching a wave 
so fast that you need to be pulled 
along by a jet-ski? Sex, commercial
ism, sport, death  this issue has it 
all.
The other articles found in the 
swimsuit edition usually contain a
profile on one of the models pic
tured in the pages, and a history 
story that ties in with a certain 
theme of the magazine. In years 
past, these stories have focused on a 
sailing trip with model Klum, the 
50th anniversary of the bikini, and 
this year, a history of 3-D effects in 
film and print. Why 3-D? Because 
one of the new features of the mag
azine this year is a 3-D picture lay
out. So, all cliches aside, now that 
weve read the articles, lets take a 
look at the pictures.
For a while, it looked as if the 
swimsuit issue was inching ever 
closer, year by year, to the point 
where the suits would be discarded, 
and the models left bare and grin
ning their 100-watt smiles from the 
coast of some tropical paradise as all 
the alpha males clutching the maga
zine grunted their approval.
Two years ago a model was 
depicted swimming nude in conve
niently hazy blue ocean shallows, 
with nary a suit to be seen. Last year 
a whole layout was devoted to mod
els wearing painted-on suits, with 
only the artists skill separating 
readers from the models most inti
mate features.
Was this sport? Hardly. Soft-core 
pornography? The magazine was 
getting close.
One thing I noticed about this 
years issue is that photos depicting 
partial nudity were at a noticeable 
minimum. Gone are the scenes 
where a model has nothing but her 
hands or a slender forearm in front 
of her breasts, and pictures such as 
the swimming scene of 1998 or the 
birthday suits of last year are 
nowhere to be seen.
Does this mark a reversal in the 
trend toward ever more risque pho
tographs? Its hard to say, consider
ing that the pages still contain their 
share of nearly bare-chested beau
ties, and the most common pose 
seems to be one in which the model 
is just moments from taking it all 
off.
Still, the magazine seems to be 
trying especially hard to tread the 
line between a tasteful display of 
summer fashion, and a tantalizing 
glimpse of exotic women in equally 
exotic locales.
For instance, in the 3-D section 
the photographers have gone to 
great lengths to set up shots that 
dont at least make sole use of the 
models buxom features to create
the 3-D effect. Palm fronds or 
horsemen or a spray of water kicked 
up by a cavorting supermodel serve 
as reminders that there is a unique 
backdrop to the essential combina
tion of girl and suit for the reader to 
take notice of.
But its the promise of getting 
closer to the models that initially 
draws the reader in.
See SWIMSUIT, page 7
"iWiWWwww w
Administration
Intramural Director: Mike
Mastroianni x8-2214 or mma8+ 
Assistant Intramural Director: 
Mike Grzywinski x8-2214 
Intramural Secretary: Amy Kiryk 
x8-2053 or kiryk+
IM President: Justin Peroli x2-3917 
or peroli+
Vice President: Mike Hutsko x2- 
3942 or hutsko+
Womens President: Andrea Nellis 
x2-2485 or nellis+
Important Dates
Wednesday, March 1  Basketball 
Playoffs Begin.
Thursday, March 2  3-on-3 
Basketball Rosters due by 4:30 pm 
in Gym Conference Room 
Wednesday, March 8  IM Board 
Meeting at Gym Conference Room 
at 1:00 pm
Thursday, March 9  IM Night 
Championships of all 4 Basketball 
Leagues.
Basketball  Playoffs will begin 
Wednesday March 1st. The sched
ules will be available Wednesday 
at noon. The finals will be 
Thursday, March 9.
Floor Hockey  Season begins 
tonight. Games are played Monday 
through Thursday evenings in the
Arena. Please stay out of the track 
teams practice. Schedules are 
available at the IM Office.
Badminton  Schedules are out 
and can be picked up at the IM 
Office. Stay out of basketball prac
tice. The co-recreational champi
ons were Siam 1.
Water Basketball  Season started 
last Wednesday at the University 
Center pool. Schedules are avail
able at die IM Office.
IM Basketball Rankings
Majors
1. Fruity Guys - Omega
2. White Trash
3. Beta Buck Naked
Intermediate
1. Kappa Sigma A
2. SAEB
3. Nemesis (EWR)
Minors
1. Sig Ep A
2. Mad Skills
3. Team Trim
4. DU Word
5. Your Biological Fathers 
Women
1. Tartan Hoopers
2. Flying Os
3. Equipo
Note: All email rosters are due 24 
hours prior to the posted date.

---------------------------------------------------

Arts Living
28 February 2000THE TARTANPage Li
CMU Takes a Leading Role
iff
\dv'^er
Mid January- The Nancy Mosser 
Casting Agency tours Carnegie 
Meilon to get a feel for what stu
dents are wearing and to get a 
feel for the campus. A represen
tative from, the agency reports 
that she was looking for extras to 
be shot during the film.
April 1995- Michael Chabons 
novel Wonder Boys is released 
nationally. The book garners 
mixed reviews from critics across 
the country. The New York 
Times says Wonder Boys is 
filled with memorable lines and 
wonderful images."
February 2-5, 1999- Film crews 
shoot inside and outside of 
Baker Hall. The Tartan reports 
that certain disruptions are 
expected. These includ move
ments of classrooms and loss of 
parking spaces on Frew Street. 
Equipment for the film, includ
ing several of the trailers can be 
seen throughout the month of 
February.
Late 1998- Curtis Hanson 
begins to look for talent for a new 
project, the adaption of Chabon's 
Wonder Boys for a movie. 
Michael Douglas is signed early 
on for the part of Professor 
Grady, a pot-smoking university 
English professor.
Early 1999- Hanson and 
Douglas come to Pittsburgh to 
begin looking at filming loca
tions. According to Hanson, 
Pittsburgh was exactly the type 
of city he was looking for with its 
unique architecture and 
"diverse neighborhoods."
February 18-20, 1999- Wonder Boys returns to campus, this time to 
shoot in and around the College of Fine Arts. Stars that come to cam
pus include Michael Douglas, Robert Downey Jr., and Francis 
McDormand. The CFA parking lot is closed, and various music and 
drama classes are moved. Workers also pour fake snow onto the ground 
on the mall to give the appearance of winter in the film. Several peo
ple on campus have begun to complain about disruptions caused by 
the film.
-mfe
April 19, 1999- Per the 
agreement, the film crew 
comes back to campus to 
film what they say will be 
the last day of shooting
April 13, 1999- Dean of Student 
Affairs Michael Murphy and stu
dent officers meet to discuss a 
Paramount Pictures request for 
one last shooting. The request is 
initially denied. However, the 
decision is made to consult the 
student body. The fee to return to 
campus is set at $40,000, with 
$5,000 each going to CFA and 
H&SS, $5,000 to Buggy, and 
$25,000 to the student body. 
Student Government holds a ref
erendum by email. 82.8% of stu
dents vote for the movie to return.
April 25, 1999- Administrators and student government permit 
Paramount one last shot, even though filming was to have been 
completed in the previous week. Among the shots that need to be 
completed included Michael Douglas's character walking down Frew 
Street and a shot on the CFA stairway. As compensation, Paramount 
offers $5,000 to GSIA, which is conducting Its 50th year celebra
tions. In addition, Student Government asks that the film be 
released at CMU when it comes to theaters.
February 25, 2000-
Wonder Boys is released 
nationally.
NOW president delivers powerful lecture
by Joanna Smiley
Arts & Living Editor
Patricia Ireland, president of the 
National Organization of Women 
(NOW), was the keynote speaker at 
this years Mosaic Conference, 
Reflect on the Past, Question the 
Present, and Envision the Future. 
Ireland addressed a wide range of 
students, faculty, and members of the 
Pittsburgh community, both male 
and female. Her lecture discussed the 
many issues such as warped body 
image and gender discrimination 
that afflict our society. Emphasizing 
both the achievements and future 
goals of women, her speech offered a 
realistic insight into the progress and 
what is still yet to be accomplished 
for women throughout history.
The Tartan: What do you feel 
should be the message to young 
women today?
Patricia Ireland: My advice to 
young, impressionable women is to 
step back from society, parents, 
friends, and the media, and look at 
what it is they want to do with their 
lives, rather than what these other 
influences think is important. And 
then simply make out a plan and 
go for it. Often, I think that all of us 
limit ourselves in our dreams and 
forget to let ideas just come up 
without censoring or condemning 
them as impossible. I think young 
women should discover what it is 
that satisfies their being, so that at 
the end of their lives they can each 
look back and say, Wow, I did that. 
I accomplished that.
7T: Do you think that the media 
is the biggest deterrent in being 
able to live without worrying so 
much about what anyone else 
thinks?
PI: Certainly the media is a very 
powerful force in our society. It not 
only reflects, but also shapes how 
we see ourselves in relation to each 
other. I try hard to be aware of 
what is in my head, and yet I realize 
that the only people considered 
beautiful in ,our society are young. 
There is nothing attractive about 
being old or having gray hair. I find 
myself imagining cutting up my 
face for someone elses view of
Bryan Kaplan/Photo Editor
Patricia Ireland, keynote speaker at this year's Mosaic Conference, spoke 
about womens roles in society and the goals for women in future generations
beauty. I feel that as conscientious 
as we attempt to be, we are bound 
to pick up stereotypes of some sort 
that make us vulnerable to the 
influences of society.
TT: Looking at the role of
women, specifically in films such as 
American Beauty, it seems that they 
are often still portrayed in many 
stereotypical ways, yet at the same 
time, this movie in particular was 
so widely acclaimed. Would you 
say that this is often the case in the 
film industry?
PI: One of the things that is hard 
about being a feminist in truth, is 
that once you take off the blinders 
you have to suspend your conscienence to enjoy the culture. I 
saw American Beauty, I thought it 
was an excellent film, but then I 
step back from it and think, what 
were the roles of women? Were 
they positive role models, what was 
the level of sexual exploitation, was 
there social responsibility shown in 
anyway? Often, I get angry because 
I love so many films, but then I real
ize the stereotypes and violence
and think, how can I still like this so 
much?
TT: In many other countries all 
over the world, women face a lot of 
the same issues and discrimination. 
Do you think that it is helpful to 
compare what is going on in our 
country with what is happening to 
women in other cultures?
PI: Womens movements are 
becoming more and more univer
sal. I believe that the general 
themes of this work all around the 
world are very much the same. 
These include issues such as eco
nomic empowerment, freedom 
from violence, ability to control fer
tilities, issues of civil rights, partici
pation in leadership of the country 
and cultures. And yet these issues 
play out differently in each culture. 
I feel that we dont have all the 
answers or our own problems 
solved, but looking at other coun
tries can be quite helpful. For 
instance, in China when we went 
there for the Beijing Conference, 
women addressing the issues of 
See IRELAND, page L2
February 29, 2000- Over a 
year after it starts filming at 
CMU, Wonder Boys is set to 
be shown in McConomy 
Auditorium twice, although 
'University Relations has 
attempted to receive more 
showings over the previous 
two weeks.
Justin Sulssa/Art Editor 
Aseem Gupta/Webmasier 
Ish Harshawat/Editor-in-Chief
Mosaic 2000 highlights womens issues
by Emily Landes
TWHYbA TUESS DAYUWA
What constitutes a womans 
issue? Is it political, emotional, 
physical, or professional? By 
offering a broad range of panel 
discussions and informational ses
sions that appeal to all, this years 
Mosaic, Carnegie Mellons annual 
conference on womens issues, 
seemed to be saying that womens 
issues include all of those things 
and more.
Mosaic 2000, whose theme is 
Reflect on the Past, Question the 
Present, and Envision the Future, 
covered topics on everything from 
womens roles in the technology 
field to quilting, peace initiatives, 
and body image. These subjects 
were among many others covered 
in last Sundays event, the fourth of 
its kind since Carrie Ulucci, who 
now teaches at the University of 
Rhode Island, first coordinated the 
program in 1997.
According to Cari Kaufman, who 
worked on the Planning Committee 
for this years conference, this 
diversity is a result of the many dif
ferent viewpoints of the women 
and one man on the planning com
mittee.
There have been so many 
diverse viewpoints on the commit
tee, said Kaufman, a junior psy
chology major. There were people 
who wanted to talk about profes
sional life, others who wanted to 
talk about activism, but I think all 
of the different viewpoints are pret
ty well represented in the different 
sessions.
This diversity was far from acci
dental, according to Amy Cyphert, 
Mosaics chair. She says that varied 
sessions were an intricate part of 
achieving one of this years goals to 
increase participation from stu
dents within all schools of Carnegie 
Mellon.
While participation in Mosaic has 
increased every year, with over 300 
in attendance at this years confer
ence, those registered for the con
ference were typically from within 
the school of Humanities and 
Social Sciences. But due in part to 
the broad span of this years confer
ence, Mosaic has seen increases in 
the registration of students from 
within the sciences and the arts.
Theres always been diversity in 
the sessions, said Cyphert, a junior 
English, professional and creative 
writing major. But traditionally 
schools like CFA, SCS, MCS have 
been under-represented, just in
who attended. So, we really 
focused on creating a couple of pro
grams this year that would specifi
cally target those schools.
Another goal for this years coor
dinating committee was to increase 
interest among students from col
leges outside of Carnegie Mellon. 
While speakers in previous years 
have been mainly CMU affiliated, 
this year the speakers came not 
only from CMU and neighboring 
colleges Carlow and Pitt, but also 
from Harvards illustrious JFK 
School of Government.
An increased advertising effort 
has also gone into making the con
ference visible to those outside of 
Carnegie Mellon.
I reached out to specific individ
uals at these schools, said Michele 
Grab, the Coordinator of Special 
Projects in the Office of Student 
Affairs. I dont know that that has 
been done in the past.
While specified advertising and 
diverse programming have been 
important components in the 
increased attendance at this years 
Mosaic, everyone involved in the 
conference seemed to indicate that 
the biggest draw to this years con
ference was the keynote speaker. 
This year Patricia Ireland, the presSee MOSAIC, page L2
Andy Warhol Musuem features eclectic 
styles of art from watercolor to still life
by Behnam Farahpour
MbHUAYadUYHR FIYUbA
The latest exhibit at the Andy 
Warhol museum, The Andy Warhol 
Drawings 1942-1987, is the defini
tion of pop art drawings. The 
exhibit displays a variety of styles 
and media Warhol experimented 
with in his drawings. In addition, 
the Warhol Museum has succeeded 
in making the exhibit more interac
tive by having drawing stations.
The exhibit is divided into sec
tions of drawings, each with a dif
ferent style or unique medium. One 
section of drawings places empha
sis on the dollar bill and commer
cial products. Andy Warhol
described US dollars as very well 
designed really. I like it better than 
any other kind of money. I have 
thrown it in the East River down by 
the state island ferry just to see it 
float. Warhol saw a beauty in 
design of the dollar bill as some 
might see the beauty in a nude fig
ure. He drew and made prints of 
dollar bills only because he saw a 
special beauty in the design.
Andy Warhol was also inspired 
by the design of commercial prod
ucts such as Coca-Cola or even 
newspapers. Warhol once quipped: 
Whats great about this country is 
that America started the tradition 
when the richest consumers buy 
essentially the same thing as the 
poorest. In a different set of drawings he draws out the front page of 
a newspaper in a very sketchy style  
to show his appreciation for every
day products and how each is an art 
piece in large quantities.
The exhibit also features works 
from one of his first solo shows in 
New York City. The ballpoint con
tour drawings are from his exhibit 
at Hugo gallery, with the title 
Fifteen Drawings Based upon the 
Writings of Truman Capote. These 
pieces such as Portrait Detail 
(1950) or Man (1950s) are very 
detailed with an emphasis on the 
outline of the figure with no shad
ing.
The two sets of watercolor draw
ings bring some color to the show.
See WARHOL, page L2

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  FEBRUARY 28, 2000
NOW president offers insight into many issues facing young women
IRELAND, from page LI 
family violence said they were shocked chat 
in our country we are so concerned with 
confidentiality, as if there is something 
shameful to a woman about being abused. 
In China, the first thing they do is expose 
the abuse to the entire community.
TT: How do you think men deal with the 
idea that women are becoming increasingly 
powerful?
PI: I dont think its easy for men, but I 
like to keep some hope, even if its an illu
sion, that each generation of younger men 
understands, accepts, or finds it less of a 
threat because they are getting more and 
more used to the situation. I also think that 
some men are still quite threatened. Part of 
the television show Who Wants to Marry a 
Multimillionaire dealt with women as sex 
objects and men as success objects. We can 
not change our culture by changing 50%, 
we have to bring the men along, and the 
best way to do that is peer to peer, just like 
on a college campus. I feel that men can 
really reach other men. I once talked to 
Michael Bolton about what his celebrity has 
brought him. He told me that he had always 
fancied himself as a jock, and on one occa
sion he went into a professional sports lock
er room. He heard many violent references 
to women, and decided to speak up by 
telling the athletes not to refer to women in 
this way. Afterwards, many of these guys 
came up to him and expressed that they had
always known it was wrong to demean 
women, but lacked the nerve to speak up. I 
think when voicing your opinion you often 
find that the majority feels the same way 
you do.
TT: Instances of discrimination seem to 
happen quite frequently in society. 
Especially in the classroom, many people 
are too scared to say anything. What do you 
think can encourage more women and any
one else who is discriminated to voice their 
concern?
PI: You have to pick your battles, you 
cant always speak up about everything. 
The best way to raise an issue with anyone 
is one on one. You praise in public and 
chastise in private. You want to have the 
chance to approach people in a way that 
doesnt back them into a corner. If you are 
going to raise something you need to be 
prepared for what the reaction will be and 
how you can respond without making the 
person defensive. It can definitely be 
scary, but the more you -do it, the easier it 
becomes.
TT: Many people are interested in know
ing if you would support Liz Dole, since she 
would be a potential female president yet 
clearly does not exhibit many of your views 
on womens rights.
PI: It has very little to do with party, and 
very much to do with issues. The 
Republican Party used to be pro-choice. If 
you go back to the genuine conservatives
who dont believe in big government, on 
many of the social issues they would be con
sidered progressive. Liz Dole bent her poli
tics around the Reagan Administration so 
that she could be in the cabinet. She has 
and continues to take very conservative 
positions. I want women , in power not 
because they are women, but because on
Part of the television 
show Who Wants to 
Marry a Millionaire 
dealt with women as 
sex objects and men as 
success objects. 
 Patricia Ireland
the average women tend to vote better on 
the issues I care about. But if you give me an 
individual woman and an individual man, I 
may very well endorse the man because he 
is better on our (womens) issues. There are 
some republicans, Barbara Hafer in PA,
being one of them, who I am able to sup
port, but very few get out of their parties 
primaries. So, I would not support Liz Dole. 
I would hate to have the first woman in his
tory in the White House be anti-abortion- it 
just doesnt seem right for me.
TT: In your speech, you discussed the 
need to take risks regardless of peoples 
reactions. What else can you say about that 
idea of letting disapproval empower you 
even more?
PI: There was an instance in which I 
thought I was surely going to get lacked 
out of law school. You pay a price for 
speaking up sometimes, but it is always 
worth it. If I look around and see injustice, 
I either get depressed and feel like I need to 
curl up in a fetal position and put the cov
ers over my head, or I take some action. If 
I keep fighting back in whatever ways, 
large or small, then I feel like I am doing 
everything I can possibly do. I am very 
sensitive to a sense of fairness, I have been 
since I was a little kid.
TT: What do you think of the possibility 
of starting a NOW chapter at CMU?
PI: The campus chapters are very impor
tant. They give you some reinforcement for 
taking these risks, you have some buddies 
who can say, yeah great, you did that! The 
difficulty with campus chapters is also that 
you are all in one place, but when you grad
uate you go off to other communities and 
spread the ripples out. But I think campus
chapters are very valuable, and it is good to I 
be part of a smaller group while having a 
perspective of where those campus issues fit 
in the broader scheme of things.
TT: Another issue you addressed in your 
speech was the prevalence of rapes and sex
ual assaults in both society and college cam puses. Can you explain your opinion on how 
to go about dealing with this on-going 
problem?
PI: There are many cases where women 
are embarrassed and afraid to file charges. 
In a Supreme Court case right now, a 
young girl was raped by two football play, 
ers who were then allowed to come back to 
school, on' a full athletic scholarship, and 
only had to seek one hour of counseling a 
week (although they admitted raping her.) 
This young woman is taking her case to the 
Supreme Court, after having been forced 
to leave her schobl in fear of her two 
rapists. At another campus, the University 
of Chicago, the school reports only 10-20 
rapes a year, yet they dont count the ones 
that dont occur on campus with their stu
dents. Another situation is that sometimes 
schools feel that a reported incident of 
rape is a liability. There are also many risk 
factors for women, such as going to the 
second floor of a fraternity, or drinking 
and abusing drugs. The more of these fac
tors you pile up, the more you are at risk, 
and the more complicated and distorted 
the case can get.
Mosaic proudly acknowledges women
MOSAIC, from page LI
ident of the National Organization of Women 
(NOW) spoke at the conference.
We had a little more funding to go after a bigname speaker, who would draw even more 
crowds, said Cyphert, and who would sort of be a 
hook for people who maybe hadnt attended 
Mosaic before.
By offering broad programming and a big-name 
keynote speaker, Mosaic has sought to increase its 
audience even further so that it includes not only 
women of every major, and from other schools in 
the Pittsburgh community, but also the men within 
these communities.
Womens issues are everybodys issues, said 
Cyphert, who mentioned that even at last years 
conference there was an increased interest in get
ting men involved in the conference by offering a 
man on a feminism panel.
Last years effort was made in an attempt to show 
how womens issues really affect both genders, 
explained last years Mosaic chair Maria Muti, a
graduate of the class of 99 who returned this year 
to speak in a panel discussion about life after grad
uation.
The reason that we call it a womens conference 
is that these issues directly affect women, said 
Muti. But they indirectly affect the men who sup
port those women. So, its important for everyone.
As such, one goal for this years conference was 
to increase male participation even more by offer
ing sessions on the fear of fatherhood, quilting-a 
skill that Cyphert calls genderless and stress 
relieving- and body imaging, which is more and 
more a problem for all Americans, and not simply 
women.
I think that men could walk away from Mosaic 
with just as much as women could, said Cyphert.
But has this increased emphasis on inclusion 
changed Mosaics goal of celebrating women and 
bringing womens issues to light?
Not so, says Cyphert.
The mission and the goal is the same, she said. 
Its just that the way you get there changes.
Musuem features latest exhibit
Behnam Farahpour/Contributing Editor
An Andy Warhol look alike was among many of 
the guests at the museums latest exhibit.
WARHOL, from page LI 
These pieces are flat with no depth but 
they communicate the characteristcs of 
the object, whether its a snake or a still 
life of a flower. There are also other 
watercolors with gold leaves and pur
ple colored areas. The gold and purple 
give each piece a very strong dynamic 
quality.
For drawing merit, the show was 
not very exciting, but the show helped 
you see what Andy Warhol said, as 
Josh Urso, a sophomore in Industrial 
Design, described the exhibit. The 
drawings might not be the best render
ings of figure or objects but they have a 
social and cultural message.Its interesting to see the subjects 
Warhol chose for his drawings, some 
of them medically related objects or 
processes. One of the sets of draw
ings consists of Cosmetic Surgery
(1985-1986) or Cell. The rest of the 
exhibition consists of his experimen
tation with different mediums such 
as silk screen prints with collages, 
synthetic polymer paint on paper or 
just a bit of red wash on his political 
paintings. He used red to communi
cate communist ideas in his drawing 
of Mao Zedong.
The exhibit once again proved that 
Andy Warhol is the peak point where 
art and design meet. Each of His 
pieces is laid out to communicate his 
message in the best way possible. In 
most of Warhols work he expressed 
his appreciation for mass quantity 
products such as Coca-Cola. The 
exhibit also has a lot of opportunities 
for the viewer to draw the still lives 
and be Andy Warhol. The exhibit gives 
the viewer a good, variety of styles 
Warhol experimented with.
Carnegie Almanac
A Suite for Less Than a Hotel Room
Elegantly furnished one or two bedroom 
suites with equipped kitchens, cable TV, VCR, 
free local phone, parking and located 
a few steps from Walnut Street shopping.
m
Daily, Weekly, & Monthly Rates
5405 Fifth Avenue  Pittsburgh, PA 15232  shadysideinn.com  (412) 441-4444
50 YEARS AGO
February 28,' 1970 - Senior 
drama student Wes Kennys propos
al to redesign Skibo was accepted by 
the Committee on Auxiliary 
Enterprise and Concessions. Skibo 
had served as an aeronautical labo
ratory until 1920, when more space 
was needed to feed faculty and stu
dents. Since it was originally sup
posed to be only temporary, the 
designers did not spend much effort 
on its looks and comfort.
One suggestion the plan made 
was to install a fake ceiling to hide 
the rafters and reduce the noise at 
meal times. Painting murals of 
sports scenes, campus scenes, and 
famous events on the walls was 
also an idea mentioned. Finally, 
Kenny suggested that a large pic
ture frame be hung up to display a 
photo of someone currently in the 
limelight, such as the Homecoming 
queen, king of hearts, or an organi
zation.
25 YEARS AGO
March 4, 1975 - A rumble broke 
out between CMlTs Sigma Alpha 
Epsilon (SAE) fraternity and Pitts 
Pi Kappa Alpha (PiKA) fraternity. 
Police blocked off Morewood 
Avenue using the Universitys secu
rity vehicles because of the incident.
The party, which was open to all 
CMU Greeks and Pitts chapter of
SAE, turned violent when mem
bers of Pitts PKA chapter were 
asked to leave by SAE. CMU secu
rity and four or five Pittsburgh 
Police cars arrived shortly after a 
member of SAE phoned in the 
incident. No arrests were made. 
One CMU student was taken to 
Shadyside Hospital for treatment 
of a black eye and one Pitt student 
was taken to Presbyterian for 
treatment of a minor injury. The 
Dean of Residence Life said he 
was satisfied with how the police 
handled the situation. Neither 
police force injured any students 
in the incident.
10 YEARS AGO
February'27, 1990 - After several 
years of substandard recruitment, 
Carnegie Mellons Army ROTC unit 
was scheduled to begin a phase-out. 
According to Captain James Del Re, 
executive officer of the unit, 
Carnegie Mellon had been unab.le to 
meet the congressionally mandated 
minimum number of incoming 
freshmen and outgoing seni6rs to 
and from the program.
FIVE YEARS AGO
February 27, 1995 - Carnegie 
Mellon teamed up with Visa 
International to set up NetBill, a sys
tem that allows consumers and 
merchants to sell electronic infor
mation over the Internet. The point 
of the system was to support trans
action on the Internet that is low 
cost and high volume. The system 
reduced the cost of a transaction 
from about 10 cents to about 1 cent. 
While other companies were pursu
ing similar projects, Carnegie 
Mellons project was unique in that 
it worked to protect privacy and die 
rights of individuals.
ONE YEAR AGO
March 8,1999 - Two members of 
Student Senates Executive
Committee and the Student Body 
Treasurer resigned, citing profes
sional problems and personal 
issues. According to Senate
sources, fighting and internal diffi
culties had resulted in a slowdown 
of Senate business.
Sophomore electrical and com
puter engineering major Alex 
Markle resigned from his position 
as Senates Funding & 
Recognition Chair on the same 
day that senior electrical and com
puter engineering major Keith 
Rothschild resigned from his post 
as Student Body Treasurer. The 
following day, senior information 
and decision systems major and 
Senate Chair Robb Moskowitz 
resigned.
Compiled by
Seth Mandel
CHALLENGING PROGRAMMING 
POSITIONS IN BRAIN IMAGING
University of Pittsburgh neuropsychology 
group seeks strong C/C++ and/or Java 
programmer to develop state-of-the-art 
brain imaging tools. Positions involve 
user interface, statistical, image 
processing and systems programming 
in Unix environment.
Contact Eugene Tseytlin at (412) 624-7070 
tseytlin@pitt.edu
Set P^UcecC 
*Dni(Ae&!
WE BEAT ALL 
PRICES ON HARD, 
TAPE, DLT DRIVES!
SeaytUe 0 fZcituttum 
'tyecvett "PacfavuC
MEgg SbA E rdbUW
1-800-432-7199

---------------------------------------------------

H MC 16
Best Rates. Best Selection. Right Now
ZapTel.com gives you the best selection and the lowest 
rates on phone cards to call anywhere you want. Plus, we'll 
zap a "virtual" phone card to you online which you can 
print Instantly. Cali to anywhere In the U.S. and many 
countries In Asia and Europe for as little as ac/minute with 
a minima! connect charge. We provide full disclosure about 
each card so there are no surprises. Buy online with credit 
card or e-check. Go to www.zaptel.com and save Instantly!
* 4c p*r mwt and 99c nontWy wrvic# Ut ItpTtl Ho ttm
phoA* cjfd with no thiffn
Now Forump age4eAt
Thanks to all the students who 
contributed to the Half Shekel Campaign
The Half Shekel Campaign was made possible in part by a grant from United Jewish Communities
The newest addition to Campus CableTV -Housing Movie Channel 16
---------------------------------------------------
Featured movies for March
Movies, dates and times are available on 
CableTV Channel 3 and the Telecom web page 
- www.telecom.cc.cmu.edu/CableTV
another service of: cooperation with:
Student Dormitory Council The Office of Student Life Carnegie Mellon TelecomCarnegie Mellon. HOUSINlf SERVICES
Count s
FARGO 
NEXT STOP WONDERLAND 
GO
SOUTH PARK 
SPACEBALLS 
THE MATRIX 
TOY STORY 
THE MATCHMAKER 
DOUBLE JEOPARDY 
TERMINATOR 2 - JUDGEMENT DAY 
LOCK STOCK AND TWO SMOKING BARRELS 
THE REPLACEMENT KILLERS 
WILD THINGS 
ELIZABETH
We Care
Everyone

---------------------------------------------------

Business
28 February 2000THE TARTANPage L4
CMU Inc.
New GSIA School 
Director named
GSIA has named S. Thomas 
Emerson to head the schools 
Donald H. Jones Center for 
Entrepreneurship.
; Emerson, 58, has been chief exec
utive officer since January 1999 of 
the Arizona Technology Incubator, a 
non-profit public/private business 
incubator created to nurture and 
develop emerging technology com
panies.
In addition to a successful compa
ny start-up record, Emerson holds 
three U.S. patents and a number of 
foreign patents. He was named 
inventor of the year by the U.S. 
Patent Office in 1973. He also was 
named Arizonas Entrepreneur of 
the Year in 1990.
Free Welfare 
meeting
The John Heinz III School will 
hold a town meeting about welfare 
reform at a free public program, 
Making Welfare Reform Work: A 
Community Conversation about 
Facilitating Change, 1-4:30 pm, 
March 15, in the University Center.
Former and current welfare bene
fit recipients, care managers, ser
vice providers, and other concerned 
citizens are expected to attend the 
program. It will start with com
ments from Dr. Susan Williams 
McElroy, a Heinz School assistant 
professor of economics and educa
tion policy who conducts research 
into employment and earnings 
issues, particularly in minority 
groups.
SEI loses cyber 
guy
Roy Thetford, head of the 
CyberSecurity Center at the SEI, has 
announced that he will be leaving 
the University February 29th to pur
sue an outside company on the 
South Side. Joining Thetford are 
Dwayne Vermeulen, the 
CyberSecurity Centers associate 
director; Christine Nightingale and 
Stuart Bell. Thetford and his team 
have secured $5 million in seed 
financing from iNetworks LLC in 
Pittsburgh.
The new company, Schwoo.com 
will develop software and provide 
consulting to companies wishing to 
increase security over their net
works. This is a particularly impor
tant topic given the recent denial of 
service attacks which have hit many 
op online sites.
Compiled by
Brad Grantz
Group meets to reinvigorate Pittsburghs waterways
Anthony Chao/Contributing Editor
Riverbanks once controlled by powerful industries are now free and the 
Pittsburgh Riverlife Task Force is eager to develop them. Pictured here is the 
16th Street Bridge on the Allegheny River, the boundary for the groups first 
project: the Golden Triangle.
by Brad Grantz
idcYHWcc FIYUbA
A somewhat wise man once 
quipped, Pittsburgh was born by 
the rivers, lived by the rivers, and 
shall die by the rivers. With the 
exception of water-consuming 
inhabitants at the turn of the centu
ry, the city has not perished because 
of its bodies of water. However, a 
new movement is underway to re
establish Pittsburghs waterways as 
a source of pride, economic prosper
ity, and community identity.
The Riverlife Task Force, a pri
vately funded organization devoted 
to Pittsburgh riverfront oversight, 
held a breakfast program on 
February 24 to discuss the imple
mentation of a new bold program to 
redesign Pittsburghs riverfronts as 
once of the most exciting water
fronts in America. A prestigious 
panel of area elitists, including CMU
Heinz School of Public Policy and 
Management Dean Mark Kamlet, 
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette editor-inchief John Craig, Riverlife Task 
Force Executive Director Davitt B. 
Woodwell, and Heinz Endowments 
Executive Director Maxell King, 
anchored the meeting.
The committee is dedicated to 
proposing a unifying vision for all of 
the projects currently underway on 
Pittsburghs riverfronts, including 
the new and expanded David L. 
Lawrence Convention Center down
town, PNC Park, and the new 
Steelers and University of 
Pittsburgh football stadium, both on 
the North Shore. The organization 
is working with area political lead
ers and the new riverfront urban 
planner and architect Alex Krieger 
to redefine the waterways, which 
have been constrained by area mills 
and industry for the past century. ,
Although the Task Force will orig
inally work inside the boundaries of 
the West End Bridge on the Ohio 
River, the 16th Street Bridge on the 
Allegheny, and the Liberty Bridge 
on the Monongahela River, they 
hope to extend their success to the 
entire Pittsburgh Pool (the tract of 
continuous water level between the 
Emsworth Dam, Highland Park 
Bridge, and Glenwood Bridge with
in the City of Pittsburgh). The 36 
miles of riverfront available for 
development represent the single 
biggest waterfront opportunity in 
the world, and thats no exaggera
tion, according to King.
Craig cautioned the 40-member 
group, which receives a substan
tial portion of its funding from 
such philanthropic organizations 
such as the Heinz Endowments, 
from accepting pale imitations. 
Noting the character of Pitts 
Cathedral of Learning, the 
Allegheny County Courthouse, 
and the USX Tower, Craig empha
sized that the project needs to be 
unique to Pittsburgh and cannot 
settle for mediocrity. He also 
brought up a key point that the 
waterfront cannot be a thin line, 
hugging the shoreline, but should 
be embraced by the topography of 
the surrounding slopes and moun
tains of Pittsburgh, as the geogra
phy does so well already.
Audience members questioned 
the Task Force about its commit
ment to community input and 
involvement. They also expressed 
the sizable amount of apathy which 
exists in the area due to past failures 
to relate to neighborhood organiza
tions and residents. However, Craig 
reiterated that this project needs a 
regional voice, complete with input 
from Butler County suburbs such as
Cranberry Township, to city 
dwellers in Lawrenceville.
Critics also questioned the lack of 
the holistic approach to this project, 
stating that many areas of much 
needed development would be left 
untouched.
George Fetcher, Associate Vice 
Chancellor of External Relations for 
Health and Sciences at Pitt, brought 
up the importance of the education
al component in the riverfront pro
ject. Fetcher tossed around such 
ideas as bringing incoming college 
freshmen to the riverfront to appre
ciate its beauty and heritage. He 
also posed the idea of the opportu
nity for river sports aimed at college 
students as well as highlighting the 
social benefits the riverfront can 
offer its visitors.
When questioned about the high
ly praised Pittsburgh Technology 
Center on the former Jones and 
Laughlin Steel Plant site in the 
Monongahela riverbank opposite 
the South Side, several panel mem
bers expressed their hopes of avoid
ing such inadequate usage of river
front property.
The Pittsburgh Technology 
Center, which does not directly 
touch the riverbank, hardly resem
bles an urban landscape and is 
much more characteristic to the 
suburban office parks of the 1970s 
and 80s.
While Craig and King both put the 
project in the context of construc
tion period in the early 1990s, they 
admitted it contains several inade
quacies. King retorted that while 
the technology park is no model for 
the future, it was an crucial devel
opment in the areas industrial land
scape.
See RIVERS, page L5
Sneaker Labs markets itself as a people person company
by Thaddeus Billman
TUESSDAYUWA
The most important component 
of the Net is the people. It is with 
this philosophy that SneakerLabs 
was created. Selling products and 
services that enable human interac
tion over the net, they are helping 
businesses in an often over looked 
area of online businessthe 
humans.
SneakerLabs was founded with 
one goal in mind...to enrich the 
online experience for users by 
adding human interaction on the 
Web, stated CMU graduate Manu 
Kumar. Founded in 1996, 
SneakerLabs has created a number 
of applications designed to help 
people interact over the Web. They 
aim to provide products that are 
cost-effective, efficient, and easy-touse. Their goal of making only the 
best can be seen in their products 
such as iMeet, iServe, and 
iShow.
SneakerLabs hails iMeet as the
premier solution for the real-time 
exchange of ideas over the Net. 
iMeet allows clients to broadcast 
live, web-based conferences from 
anywhere in the world. Features 
include PowerPoint support, 
streaming audio and video, live 
Q&A, and live tech support. 
Integrated into the iMeet environ
ment is iShow. iShow allows 
clients to share software applica
tions over the net. Since iShow 
uses Java, businesses are able to 
demonstrate their software to all 
users, regardless of what operating 
system they may be using. All that is 
required is a Java-enabled web 
browser.
The iMeet interface has 
received quite a bit of praise from 
the computing industry. It won the 
1999 TeleCon award for best collab
orative software product and was 
favorably reviewed by PC Week, who 
remarked per-user and value-add 
service are more affordable than 
competition. In addition, 
SneakerLabs boasts a long list of satisfied customers.
iServe is designed to help com
panies deliver better customer ser
vice. By allowing businesses to tell 
customers what to do via text mes
sages and show them what to do via 
streaming video, technical support 
can get quicker and better results. In 
addition, the customer can stop and 
ask questions anywhere along the 
line, thus allowing for customertech interaction. iServe allows busi
nesses to provide technical support 
nearly as effectively as a live repre
sentative in the room talking with 
the end user at a fraction of the cost.
Through hard work and dedica
tion, SneakerLabs has managed to 
form a number of strategic 
alliances. Leading the way is 
Mastech Corporation, a provider of 
information technology services. 
Mastech has integrated iServe 
technology into their existing offer
ings, thus allowing their clients to 
convert curious browsers into cus
tomers. Other partners include 
eTradeshow.com and OnlineChoice.com
Manu Kumar is the founder and 
president of SneakerLabs. He grad
uated from Carnegie Mellon with a 
bachelors degree in electrical and 
computer engineering and a mas
ters in software engineering. He is 
also the founder of the Pittsburgh 
Java Users Group and the 
Pittsburgh Marimba Users Group. 
Other members of the SneakerLabs 
team include CMU grad Raymond 
Fragale and CMU faculty member 
Frank Demmler.
Kumar also is proud of the 
SneakerLabs environment. Its a 
place where we can develop some of 
the coolest software for the Web 
and shoot Nerf guns at the same 
time! he said.
Backed by plenty of technology, 
know-how, and desire, SneakerLabs 
seems poised to succeed. They 
appear ready to take advantage of 
the growing market for online inter
activity products with their effective 
Java-based communication tools. 
They truly are Running the distance 
... to bring you closer... on the Net.
Market News
MARKETSNASDAQ THIS WEEK
Index Close Open Point Chg. % Change
Dow Jones Industrials 9862.12 10425.21 -563.09 -5.40%
Nasdaq Composite 4590.50 4395.45 +195.05 +4.44%
American Stock Ex. 943.54 889.47 +54.07 +6.08%
Standard & Poors 1333.36 1387.12 -53.76 -3.88%
WORLD MARKETS_________________________________________________
Markets were closed Monday in honor of President's Day.
Index
FTSE 100 (Britain) 
Nikkei (Japan)
DAX (Germany)
Close
6198
19817.88
7738.68
Open
6086.70
19571.44
7650.43
Point Chg. % Change
111.30 +1.83%
246.44 +1.26%
88.25 +1.15%Dow dives, Nasdaq soars
NEW YORK (AP)Capping a string 
of Blue Fridays on Wall Street, the 
Dow industrials closed below 10,000 
for the first time in more than 10 
months as investors continued to 
abandon old guard stocks like IBM 
and 3M to chase the new generation 
Of dot-coms.
The Dow Jones industrial average 
dropped 230.51, or by 2.3 percent, to 
9,862.12. It was the first close below 
10,000 since April 6, 1999, and the 
lowest close since April 1,1999, when 
it finished at 9,832.51. The Dow now 
has tumbled almost 16 percent since 
its record close of 11,722.98 on Jan. 
14. A drop of more than 10 percent is 
considered a "correction, or sudden, 
steep reversal in a rising market. Such 
a drop does not necessarily mean the 
end to the bull market that has been 
raging since October 1990.
The correction is simply not over 
yet as we can see by the continuing 
pressure on stocks like GE, Coke and 
Merck, said Charles Pradilla, chief 
investment strategist at SG Cowen 
Securities. People are moving out of
the Old Economy into the New 
Economy.
The Nasdaq composite index fell 
27.15 to 4,590.50. The Standard & 
Poors 500 index, which captures the 
biggest picture of the market, ended 
down 20.07 at 1,333.36.
It is serious, said Hugh Johnson, 
chief investment officer at First 
Albany Corp. The market is sending a 
message that the economy and profit 
growth will slow in the future, he said.
Blue chips suffered as traders con
tinued to favor newer companies and 
the lure of faster profit growth.
The technology sector, 'however, 
continues to show pockets of strength. 
Small company stocks also have 
bucked the trend. The Russell 2000 
index rose 2.70 Friday to 556.74.
It was a different story overseas 
where markets closed higher before 
the worst of the declines on Wall 
Street. In Japan, the Nikkei rose 1.3 
percent. In Europe, London's FT-SE 
rose 1.8 percent, the Paris CAC rose 
1.8 percent, and the German DAX rose 
1.3 percent.
Tu W Th F
THE TARTAN STOCK INDEX
About the index: The index is based on 16 widely held stocks that 
we feel represent Pittsburgh-based and national companies that 
CMU students are interested in. The index is based on a start-date 
of 24 January. The initial index is calculated by adding the value 
of the 16 stocks together and multiplying by ten.
THE INDEX AT A GLANCE
Open: 11,888.75 Close: 11,146.88
Change: -741.87 Percent change: -6.24%
Year to date change: -1266.87 
Year to date percent change: -10.20%
Best performer: Alcoa, + 2.5, +3.5%
INDEX STATISTICS- 2 WEEK PERIOD
CompanyOpenCloseChange
Alcoa67 11/1670 3/162 1/2
Apple Compuer108 3/4110 3/81 5/8
Cisco Systems130 15/16132 3/41 13/16
Freemarkets239 15/16192-47 15/16
H.J. Heinz Co.34 1/432 11/16-1 9/16
Lycos69 5/1662-7 5/16
Mellon Bank31 7/1629 3/8-2 1/16
Microsoft99 15/1691 5/16-8 5/8
New York Times47'5/839 11/16-7 15/16
PNC Bank42 1/837 5/8-4 1/2
PPG48 5/849 1/167/16
Qualcomm132133 9/161 9/16
Sun Micro.94 7/1693 3/4-11/16
USAirways18 7/818 11/16-3/16
USX Steel22 15/1621 5/8-1 5/16
Market data sources: NYSE,NASDAQ, & The AP. The information 
contained in Market News" is not to be construed as financial 
advice from The Tartan or Carnegie Mellon University.
Area tech partners advance 
cutting edge ideas
While Steve Jobs and Bill Gates 
by Betty Kim
CEAoAbby NEHERWA
amassed great fortunes in garages 
and dorm rooms, area innovators 
are hoping for similar results via a 
local capital firm.
Innovation Works, an organiza
tion that distributes funds for start
up companies in Pennsylvania, 
launched on September 30, 1999. 
Since then it has been viewed as an 
interesting and dynamic force in 
southwestern Pennsylvania, provid
ing valuable resources to young 
high-tech companies.
The force behind Innovation 
Works is not surprisingly composed 
of Pennsylvania universities and the 
local community. The University of 
Pittsburgh, Duquesne University, 
and CMU along with the Allegheny 
Conference, Pittsburgh Technology 
Council, Pittsburgh Regional 
Alliance, Commonwealth of 
Pennsylvanias Department of 
Community and Economic 
Development, all came together to 
help build the technological success 
of the region via Innovation Works. 
The organizations mission is to 
increase the new-enterprise success 
rate in Pennsylvania by providing 
start-up companies with the skills, 
funds, and advice needed in those
crucial first steps.
Innovation Works receives pro
posals from prospective fund recipi
ents. There is a 30-day evaluation 
cycle. Grant recipients can benefit 
from between $100,000 and 
$500,000 in investments. The 
money earmarked for these compa
nies comes from the Pennsylvania 
Department of Community and 
Economic Developments Ben 
Franklin Technology Partners pro
gram. Even if a company is not select
ed to receive a pecuniary investment, 
they are still provided with a mentor, 
who will help guide them through 
their early stages of development.
Eleven recipients have already 
been announced for Innovation 
Works December round of invest
ments. The developmental firm 
allocated $1.95 million to eleven 
companies, bringing the size of 
Innovation Works investment port
folio to $3.9 million.
The number of applicants for this 
round increased to 32, up from 19 in 
the October competition. Of the 32 
applicants, ten had previously 
received money from the Ben 
Franklin Technology Center funding 
strategy. After initial screenings, 19 
proposals were considered for 
investment and underwent due dili
gence. Several submissions were 
See IDEAS, page L5
Biz Briefs
US Airways strike 
could ground 
students
WASHINGTON (AP)  The clock 
began ticking Wednesday toward a 
possible showdown between US 
Airways and the union representing 
its flight attendants.
The National Mediation Board 
has started a 30-day cooling-off 
period. The NMBhas agreed to 
another mediation session before 
the deadline, which falls on the 
Saturday leading off CMlFs spring 
break.
If no deal is reached, the carrier's 
10,000 attendants will be free to 
walk off the job at 12:01 a.m. EST 
on March 25. But in a letter to 
employees, US Airways officials 
vowed to ground the airline rather 
than endure the surprise strikes 
threatened by the Association of 
Flight Attendants.
US Airways officials wrote that 
trying to operate under the threat of 
unannounced strikes would cause 
customers to lose all confidence 
that they can rely on US Airways.
After going four years without a 
raise, the AFA has threatened series 
of unannounced job actions they 
call Create Havoc Around Our 
System, or CHAOS. Union officials 
said that could take the form of a 
systemwide walkout, or strikes 
against individual flights.
Priceline.com to 
offer gasoline
STAMFORD, CONN. (AP)With 
the cost of gasoline at a 10-year 
high, Priceline WebHouse Club, a 
licensed affiliate of priceline.com 
(Nasdaq: PCLN), will launch a new 
service that makes it possible for 
consumers to name their own price 
for up to 50 gallons of gas a month. 
After locking in their price in 60 sec
onds or less, drivers can get their 
gas at local major-brand gas stations 
selected by Priceline WebHouse 
Club. The service will be offered in 
cities and towns across the U.S.
Priceline WebHouse Club gets 
money from several sources to sig
nificantly lower the gas prices its 
customers pay. For example, partici
pating local gas stations pay 
WebHouse Club a few cents per gal
lon to get incremental business 
coming to their stations. In addi
tion, the Priceline WebHouse Club 
expects major oil companies to sup
port the system with additional sav
ings in return for getting new cus
tomers for their gasoline and relat
ed products, as well as for the oil 
companies' own proprietary gaso
line credit cards.
Compiled by 
Brad Grantz
Mutual funds are safer bet
THE MONEY MAN
by Huiya Xu
With all the current focus on the 
hot technology stocks, it is easy to 
overlook the other types of invest
ments. Investing in stocks is lucra
tive but risky. Many people dont 
have the money, expertise, or 
courage to put their hard-earned 
money into the volatile and unpre
dictable stock market. One of the 
safer alternatives is the mutual 
fund. A mutual fund can contain 
various securities, stocks, and 
bonds, and is run by a professional 
investment management company. 
The funds large capital and experi
enced management provide advan
tages for investors, including diver
sification, expert stock and bond 
selection, low costs, and conve
nience. Most mutual funds require 
an initial investment of $500, which 
is much more affordable than two 
hundred shares of stock in most 
companies. Thus, a mutual fund is a 
good way for beginners or small 
investors to invest in a variety of 
securities. In addition, they allow 
more experienced investors to add 
some safer investments to their 
portfolio.
There are many different kinds of
See MUTUAL, page L5

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  FEBRUARY 28. 2000
Biotech companies focus of Wall Street ups and downs
MARKET MADNESS
by Thaddeus Billman
Biotech mania came to a screech
ing halt last week on Wall Street, as 
top gainers dropped 30, 40, and 
even 50 percent. Leading the way 
was the ultra-speculative Cytogen 
(CYTO). The stock steadily rose 
from $5 a share to over $21 per 
share last Friday, before crashing 
down. Cytogen lost 10 to 20 percent 
of its value each day this week, hit
ting a low of $12, before rallying 
Friday. Fridays rally was due in part 
to heavy short covering as investors 
moved on to better opportunities. 
Further losses are expected this 
week.
Trag Genetics (TGEN) shed 43 per
cent of its value, plummeting from a 
Friday high of $28 to a close of $16 per 
share by Friday. The stock nearly dou
bled last Wednesday on word that it 
was working on an AIDS vaccine. It
IDEAS, from L4
made by finalists in the EnterPrize 
99 Business Plan Competition, four 
of which (DS Limited, Millennium 
Medical Technologies, Transvision, 
and Zajitra) were funded.
The increase in applicants indi
cates that Innovation Works fund
ing strategy and services are needed 
by the regions young technology 
companies. The quality of proposals 
was also much better, said Douglas 
Goodall, president and CEO of 
Innovation Works. Our new invest
ment approach to support company 
growth stages creates opportunities 
to work with enterprises we might 
not have been aware of before 
because their needs were out of the 
centers previous funding range... 
Innovation Works can help more 
technology companies, and the 
companies get the cash they need to 
move to the next level.
Innovation Works offers funding
had been as low as $5 per share in 
early February before biotechs 
gained ubridled popularity.
Uromed (URMD) continued to 
lose ground after more than qua
drupling in a single day last 
Thursday when the company 
announced approval of a new can
cer treatment, sending the stock 
skyward from just over $3 to a high of 
$16. Thursdays volume of 15 million 
shares represented more shares trad
ed than the past 52 weeks combined. 
By Friday the stock was trading at 
$7 per share, some 53% off its high.
Not all biotechs were down, how
ever. Industry leaders like Biogen 
(BGEN), Amgen (AMGN), and 
Human Genome (HGSI) shook off 
early losses to finish the week near 
where they began. In addition, a 
few speculative stocks achieved 
heavy gains. Neorx (NERX) was the 
weeks big winner, as news release 
after news release, concerning new
for companies in the product cre
ation stage as well as those compa
nies nearing completition of testing 
and looking toward marketing their 
product.
Automated Cell, a biomedical 
firm looking to begin beta testing 
of its cell biology tool platform was 
granted $300,000, one of four 
firms receiving the largest of distri
bution amounts.
D.S. Limited, KCRS Inc., and 
TimeSys Corporation were the 
other $300,000 recipients. All are 
developing computer hardware 
and software.
The startup companies are 
marked by their relatively small 
workforce, Only one company had 
more than 10 employees. For 
example, Halsoft, Inc, a company 
developing a platform-independent 
virtual computer that manifests 
itself as a logical computer over the 
Internet, is a one-man show.
corporate alliances, a brokers rec
ommendation, and a cancer 
research grant, and drove it to new 
highs. It finished the week up 100 
percent, that coming on top of 60 
percent the prior week.
In an indication of market 
strength, many companies experi
enced successful initial public offer
ings (IPOs) last week. Chipmaker 
Intersil (ISIL) led the way, gaining 
116% to finish Friday at $54 per 
share. The gains came after it priced 
at $25, well above its expected 
range of $18-$20. Digital Think 
(DTHK), an online company spe
cializing in education products, 
more than doubled after pricing at 
$14 to finish Friday at $29. Hotel 
Reservation Network (ROOM) 
gained 63 percent to finish its first 
day of trading at $26. It had priced 
at $16 a share, considerably higher 
than its expected range of $11-$13.
The coming week promises to be
Halsoft hopes to create a tool to 
facilitate business-to-business ecommerce over the Internet.
One company being funded is 
Mobot, Inc. Started in 1998 with 
only five employees, its project 
involves incorporating the neces
sary technology in a robot that will 
enhance its artificial intelligence 
skills. These commercial mobile 
robots are being used in museums, 
the entertainment industry, and 
advertising markets.
Innovation Works is an important 
partner of Carnegie Mellon, which 
takes part in selecting new business
es that may hold similar interests to 
the technological sciences of the 
university. It also gives Carnegie 
Mellon students an incentive to 
remain in Pittsburgh and develop 
their own companies, knowing full 
well that they have the connection 
between school and Innovation 
Works.
an especially good one for IPOs, 
with several highly desirable com
panies going public. Niku (NIKU), 
an online consulting firm, has; 
already doubled its expected price - 
range from $10-$ 12 to $20-$22. It 
will likely price above even the 
revised range. Avenue A, which cre
ates custom Internet advertising,. 
has more than doubled its expected ' 
range from $8-$ 10 to $18-$20. It is . 
expected to price above its predict- - 
ed range as well.
Another hot IPO expected to price 
this week is Palm (PALM). 3COM 
(COMS) is spinning off the popular 
hand held device, Palm (PALM), from 
its core business. Palms IPO size will 
be gigantic, hence many investors 
fear it will open slightly above its 
IPO price. Assuming it prices at the 
top of the expected $14-$ 16 range, 
it would have a market cap of $9 bil
lion, nearly a third of 3COMs cur
rent $27.6 billion market cap.River Task Force meets
RIVERS, from L4
In addition to the planning failures 
of the Pittsburgh Technology Center, 
Craig and King also responded to the 
need for a more developed connec
tion between Oakland, the river
front, and the South Side. Although 
Craig believes the financial harms 
outweigh the gains associated with 
a light rail transit extension to 
Oakland, he hopes Pittsburgh will. 
enhance the connections to the civic 
center of Pittsburgh. Posing the 
ideas of water taxis and bike trails, 
King pondered a very critical com
ponent of the Task Forces work: 
transportation. The Riverlife Task 
Force must also examine the trans
portation systems of the region, in 
order to integrate the region once 
again with the rivers that lend 
Pittsburgh its notoriety.
Grants allocated to regional startups
Mutual funds give investor 
diversified, safe portfolio
1 MUTUAL, from L4 
'mutual funds, such as growth 
funds, foreign funds, income funds, 
and money-market funds. A growth 
fund seeks greater gains primarily 
through stock investments, while an 
income fund focuses less on growth, 
seeking income from bond invest
ments.
There are two main types of 
mutual funds, open-end and closed end. An open-end fund is the most 
common kind of mutual fund. It has 
no limit on the number of shares 
that can be outstanding, so 
investors can put as much capital as 
they want into them. Investors gen
erally buy and sell shares directly 
from the fund company, not from an 
exchange. The net asset value 
(NAV) of such a fund is the sum of 
the daily closing values of- all the 
securities in its portfolio and its 
other assets, minus the liabilities, 
with the result divided by the num
ber of outstanding shares. The 
investors dont have a direct influ
ence on the price, which is based 
primarily on the value of the invest
ments made by the fund.
An open-end fund may be a load 
fund or no-load fund. An open-end 
fund that has a surcharge, called a 
sales load, on share purchases is 
called a load fund. The sales load 
may be anywhere from one percent 
to 8.5 percent of your investment. 
On the other hand, a no-load fund is 
an open-end fund that has no sales 
load. The better fund depends on 
your preference. With a load fund, 
yq'u enjoy the benefit (and added 
expense) of having broker consulta
tions. With a no-load fund, not only 
are you on your own, but you also 
take another calculated risk. Noload funds spend a higher amount 
of money on advertising costs, 
thereby increasing the funds cost, 
hence, channeling monies away
from research, and in the end, low
ering the investors return amount.
In the current sharp market cor
rection, no-load mutual funds are 
also the first portfolios to be sold. 
Since holders do not pay a fee to a 
broker when exiting, it is easier for 
them to sell. The fund manager 
then must go out and sell the port
folios stocks at the bottom market 
prices, hence hurting shareholders 
of those stocks. Load mutual funds 
are therefore safer for longer term 
investors, while no-load purchasers 
tend to buy on market timing (i.e., 
buying and selling by betting on 
when the market will rise or abate).
A closed-end fund resembles the 
stock market more closely, because 
its traded on an actual stock 
exchange. You buy or sell shares 
through a broker who charges you a 
commission. Unlike an open-end 
fund, the price in a closed-end fund 
fluctuates in response to what peo
ple are willing to pay for it, as well 
as the funds performance. In addi
tion, only a fixed number of shares 
are available. A closed-end mutual 
fund trades like an individual secu
rity. Hence, for every buyer, there 
must be a related seller.
To reiterate, diversification, pro
fessional management, and conve
nience are the three primary advan
tages of mutual funds. They also 
offer lower costs due to their large 
size. For a low minimum invest
ment, an investor can spread risk 
over a much broader base than oth
erwise possible by owning hundreds 
or thousands of securities through a 
single fund. Furthermore, investors 
are relieved of the day-to-day tasks 
of researching, buying and selling 
individual securities. However, one 
must also consider that mutual 
funds trade the potentially high 
gain (and risk) of stocks for 
increased stability.
The five colleges which make up the London Institute - 
Camberwell, Central Saint Mart ins, ...Chelsea, London , 
College of Fashion:and Xondon Colle^'of .Er'inting. -
offer the world's widest range of courses m art, 
design and communications. Their MA cdrse'':p:r6grairarie l
mSm
is second to none. It includes book arts, conservation^
communication design, design studies, fashic 
fine art, graphics, industrial design, mediai 
multimedia, scenography and textiles.
n, film,
Interested? To find out more contact Rachel Hudson,
65 Davies Street, London W1Y 2DA, United Kingdom.
Telephone: +44 20 7514 6130 Fax: +44 20 7514 6131
ve-mail: marcom@linst.ac.u]c5web site: www.linst.ac.uk

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment
28 February 2000THE TARTANPage L6
Dark humor gives Wonder Boys a different twist
MOVIE REVIEW
by Sara Stille
sWDc FIYUbA
Drag queens, murdered dogs, and 
professors on codeine all add to the 
dark but humorous mood of Wonder 
Boys, the movie that was released 
February 25 and partially filmed at 
Carnegie Mellon University.
Wonder Boys reveals the numerous 
and diverse pressures felt by Grady 
Tripp (Michael Douglas), a college 
English professor dealing with his 
younger wife leaving him, the 
woman hes having an affair with 
telling him shes pregnant, and a 
flamboyant, struggling editor 
harassing him about his unfinished 
2000+ page novel. Tripp has moved 
on past the success of his first novel 
and, while searching for an ending to 
his current work, discovers the tal
ents of one of his students, James 
Leer (Toby Maguire).
Leers dark writing style and anti
social personality prevent him from 
being one of the most inviting char
acters in the film, but his talent 
catches the eye of Tripp and his des
perate editor, Terry Crabtree (Robert 
Downey Jr.). Both characters take 
Leer under their shaky wings to help 
him in developing his gift.
Sara Gaskell (Frances 
McDormand) is Tripps romantic 
partner in the film and when she 
becomes pregnant, she and Tripp
 Paramount Pictures
One of several CMU locations used in the filming of tbHIWA ibnc was Baker 
Hall 235B. Here are Katie Holmes and Michael Douglas in that classroom.
must make a decision as to where 
their relationship is going. The rela
tionship is hindered by several fac
tors, including the fact that she is 
married to Tripps boss and the fact 
that Gaskells blind dog seems to dis
like Tripp with a vengeance.
Other well-known names in the 
film include Katie Holmes, the 
Dawsons Creek star, Richard 
Thomas, known to us all as John 
Boy from The Waltons, and Rip 
Torn.
The characters in the film seem to 
work well together and the relation
ships and bonds are well-formed by 
the actors. One feels that they truly
get to know their personalities and 
understand their situations. This is 
in part because of the acting and also 
because of the directing. The film 
was directed by Curtis Hanson, the 
director, producer, and co-writer of 
the Academy Award-winning film 
L.A. Confidential.
Most of the scenes were filmed in 
the Pittsburgh area, including CMUs 
Baker Hall and College of Fine Arts 
Building, the Hill District, and the 
Pittsburgh International Airport. The 
movie did a wonderful job of making 
CMUs campus look beautiful. Shots 
in CFA and the second floor of Baker 
Hall were picture-perfect.
One complaint of the film, though, 
is the dark and dreary humor it por
trays. While the audience found 
itself laughing fairly consistently 
throughout the movie, they were 
always having to take a second to 
decide whether they were supposed 
to laugh, cry, "or just shake their 
heads in disapproval. An example of 
one of these scenes involves the mur
der of Gaskells dog, whose body was 
thrown into the trunk of a car and 
hauled around for the rest of the 
movie.
Other examples include the drug 
abuse episodes, involving the appro
priately-named Tripp. While the 
audience finds itself laughing at the 
fact that there are very few scenes 
where the character is seen without a 
joint, a reality check must be made 
when he finds himself collapsing on 
several occasions.
Overall, Wonder Boys was very 
funny and reflected well on the 
atmosphere of the CMU campus 
well. The movie was fast-paced and 
had a lot of well-known and accom
plished actors, not to mention the 
award-winning director. I would 
especially recommend the film to 
anyone who likes to watch movies 
and point out all of the places 
theyve been or seen before, for 
there are several glimpses of Donner 
Hall, Margaret Morrison Hall, and 
Tech Street, in addition to Baker and 
CFA.
Momos Horoscopes
Momo Starbuck
Hey Kids! Mid-semester break is coming your 
way; so bust out those bikinis and head for the pool. 
Just not our pool. Because then all those freaks 
chowing down on fat-laden burgers and other 
forms of cooked lard will be gawking at you 
through the windows in the dining area. And who 
needs that?
Pisces
(February 19 - March 20)
So, the weathers finally warm, the sun is final
ly peeking out from behind the clouds, and what 
are you doing? Youre sitting in your room play
ing game number 4,564 of Quake. Bad move, 
fishy. Remember what I told you last week? This 
spawning business is never gonna happen if you 
continue locking yourself up indoors with your 
fantasies of cyber trout with kahunas bigger than 
truck tires. So, get off your lazy fins and head for 
the open water!
Aries
(March 21 - April 19)
Aries, I hate to be the one to break this to you,
. but youre a tease. While this has proved effec
tive with past relationships, it is now time to start 
fulfilling all of those empty promises. Remember 
the water balloons and the pork chops? You cant 
escape them any longer. Let this be a lesson to 
you. Unless you can master your lust, that 
leather-clad warrior of love will always be your 
master.
Taurus
(April 20 - May 20)
Taurus, why dont I let you in on a little trade 
secret? Youd better get moving or youre going 
to be put out to pasture. I think we both know 
that hamburger isnt really made from ham, if 
you catch my drift. I know that mid-semester 
break is just around the corner, but youve been 
slacking off since January, you tractor load of 
lard. Its time to set a new goal for yourself 
because trying to chow down at Highlander 
seven days a week, three times a day just isnt cut
ting it any longer. Where is your ambition? Why 
are you here? Either buck up or face the grinder, 
my friend.
Gemini
(May 21-June 21)
Gem, Im getting some strange signals here. 
Im sensing a far off place, Ireland, but Im also 
seeing the Rocky Mountain skyline of Colorado. 
I see a beautiful woman with the liquor capacity 
of a water tower, and a handsome man with a 
keen eye for the fine print. The future need not 
be hazy! I suggest hopping aboard the next flight
to some distant land (Oz?) and make your future 
a reality. Let me know how this goes. I am cur
rently wondering if these signals are real, or if its 
just because my neighbor upstairs is running her 
vacuum cleaner while Im trying to channel.
Cancer
(June 22-July 22)
So, no plans for your whopping three day 
weekend? Stuck on campus for your mid-semes
ter hiatus from academic hell? Let Momo give 
you a few suggestions on how to make this the 
best break youve ever spent locked up in your 
dorm room. 1. Stay away from boiling water. 2. 
The Internet is your best friend in times of 
need. 3. Buy all the pork rinds you can afford.
4. Your roommates gone, so his/her stuff is fair 
game. 5. Water balloons, need I say more? 6. 
Cheap beer balloons ... even better? 7. Now is 
the prime time to live out your fantasies of 
streaking down the dorm hallways screaming 
The British are coming! The British are com
ing! 8. 200 pounds of beach sand. 9. Rubber 
sheets, baby. Rubber sheets. 10. I hear Babe-ORama now makes house calls. Enjoy!
Leo
(July 23 - August 22)
You may be the king of the jungle, but lately 
youve been getting the lions share of crap from 
just about everyone in your pride. Now is the 
time to show those ankle biters whos boss. Let 
them hear your mighty roar. If you feel your roar 
isnt mighty enough, remember you can buy it in 
a can nowadays. Tell those whiny-ass friends of 
yours that this is the last time you will pet their 
monkey, feed their piranhas, or clean their filthy 
cat boxes. Start standing up for yourself, you 
wuss. You make me sick. I expected more from 
you. Ive seen three week old kittens with more 
roar than youve got. Now, go out there, kick 
some feline ass, and make Momo proud.
Virgo
(August 23 - September 22)
Oh Virgo, how do I love thee? Let me count the 
ways. I love you in the morning and in the after
noon. I love you in the evening, underneath the 
moon. How many is that? In all honesty, Virgo, I 
feel sorry for you. Time and time and time again 
I try to show you the wonders of the loose life, 
but do you ever listen? No\ I tell you over and 
over again of the benefits of wearing a low-cut 
shirt in a nursing home, but do you listen? No\ I 
preach to you for a freakin eternity about the 
theraputic effects of a Spam facial, but will you 
take my advice? No\ I honestly dont know what 
to do with you. After all that, I say you deserve 
whatever you get.
Libra
(September 23 - October 23)
Libra, Libra, Libra. I have some very good news 
for you! You are one lucky sign, my friend. Not 
only do I have it on authority that your sign is sta
tistically the best in bed, but youre also a wizard 
in the kitchen. Its time to put these two worlds 
together. Have you ever seen Like Water for 
Chocolate? or 9 1/2 Weeks? Love and cutlery go 
hand in hand! Dont be bashful, Leebs. Cook up 
some new creative recipies for nookie, and trust 
me, you wont ever go hungry again. (Just
remember to hose down the place when youre 
done.)
Scorpio
(October 2 - November 21)
You will fall in love with a beautiful 
woman/man with dark hair and blue eyes. You 
will date for exactly 3 years, 11 months, 14 days, 
and 6 hours. After that, you will be married in St. 
Patricks Cathedral in Manhattan. After 8 years, 7 
months, 21 days, and 4 hours of blissful mar
riage, you discover that your significant other has 
been cheating on you with someone smaller than 
you. You will hit him/her 21 times in the head 
and be indicted on murder charges within 24 
hours. You will be held without bail for 2 days, 6 
hours, and 23 minutes. You will be given one 
phone call. You will be found guilty on one 
charge of aggravated murder. You will spend 38 
years, 4 months, 18 days, 15 hours, 37 minutes, 
and 14 seconds in a maximum security prison. At 
which point you will die of dysentery. Sorry to be 
the bearer of bad news. But hey, get over it.
Sagittarius
(November 22 - December 21)
Saggy, I have no news for you, because 
absolutely nothing newsworthy will happen to 
you in the next two weeks. So, rather than leave 
this empty, allow me the opportunity to bitch 
about Monica Lewisnky. That tramp thinks shes 
all that just because she sold her soul to Jenny 
Craig and now has more clothing options than 
that tacky blue dress from the Gap. But you know 
what, once a slut, always a slut. Ill bet she thinks 
that looking like a supermodel will get her into 
more important pants than those of our presi
dent, but she can think again. Shes not going any
where, just like you Saggy, unless you find some
thing constructive to do with all that spare time.
Capricorn
(Dedember 22 - January 19)
Hey Cappy, you think your life sucks now? Wait 
till next week, when you find yourself suddenly 
very attracted to the Backstreet Boys and NSync 
at the same time. Can you imagine the conflict 
there? Wait, it gets worse. Suddenly, you find 
yourself imagining being entwined in various and 
sundry positions with Roseanne Barr and Kid 
Rock. Your fantasies then whisk you away to a pri
vate island off the coast of Cuba where you are 
being treated to a 19-course meal by Fat Bastard 
who informs you later on that he finds your new 
Hawaiian shirt dead sexy. I dont know what to 
tell you, Cap. Sometimes life just isnt fair.
Aquarius
(January 20 - February 18)
Heres a little proverb that may help you out 
during the next week. Once, there was a little boy 
in a field. He saw all of the tall grains of grass sur
rounding him, and he felt small in comparison. 
Then, he whispered out loud, I wish I was a little 
bit taller ... I wish I was a bailer ... I wish I had a 
girl who looked good, I would call her... Then, 
little bunny Foo-Foo came hopping through the 
forest and started scooping up some field mice 
and bopping them over the head. Then the good 
fairy came down and said, Little bunny Foo-Foo 
I dont want to see you scooping up the field mice 
and bopping them over the head. Think about it.
Cheap Movies(for cheap students)
movies you may have seen before
BY ANDY FRANCIS
The Day the Earth Stood Still
Thursday, March 2
Yet another classic Thursday movie, this legendary movie is 
one of the founding fathers of sci-fi. Although it may seem a 
bit quaint to certain X-Fi/es-watching, robot-building, codeloving members of the CoMmUnity (clever, huh? No, I guess it 
isnt), a film featuring aliens and robots is remarkably inven
tive for 1951.
Sometimes people ask me if I have seen all these movies that 
I write about. Right, like I have 8 hours a week where I have 
nothing better to do than sit around and watch them. If you 
think you have the time and energy to do so and pound out this 
column, email me. Maybe Ill give you a medal or something.
There are times, though, when I wish I had seen some of 
them, like this one for example. Apparendy the phrase Gort, 
Klaatu barada nikto is somewhat famous, but I have no clue 
why. Lets go find out on Thursday.
At 8 pm, 10 pm, and midnight
In McConomy Auditorium
Anywhere but Here
Friday, March 3
The mother-daughter entry in this weeks McConomy hodge
podge, Anywhere but Here, deals with Adele August (Susan 
Sarandon) and her daughter Ann (Natalie Portman) who 
move from Wisconsin to Beverly Hills after mom leaves her 
husband and family. The film chronicles the struggles of the 
two new Californians, both with each other and with their new 
surroundings.
Ann is none too pleased with the move to begin with, but 
gradually learns to like it better when George Lucas casts her in 
The Phantom Menace. Things take a turn for the worse, 
though, when Lucas creates Jar Jar Binks and forces Ann to 
appear onscreen with him, plunging Ann into a depression.
Other than the Star Wars scenes, Anywhere but Here has 
drawn praise for its portrayal of the relationship between the 
two women. Its accurate depiction of love, frustration, blah, 
blah, and blah will blah blah blah, blah, etc.
At 7:30 pm, 10 pm, and 12:30 pm
In McConomy Auditorium
End of Days
Saturday, March 4
How could Arnold Schwarzenegger possibly even hope to 
duplicate the unprecedented critical and popular success of 
what most film critics regarded as 1997s finest achievement, 
Jingle All the Way ? Its almost foolish to try, yet 
Schwarzenegger gives it his best shot with this big-budget 
action pic. Ah-nuld plays a security guard who has to prevent 
Satan from mating with a woman in New York before the mil
lennium. Lucky girl.
Arnie does a lot more for us filmgoers than we realize.
Look at his incredible range  he acts in shoot-em-ups 
(Terminator, Predator), comedies (Twins was theoretically 
funny), movies about bodybuilding (PumpingIron), comedies 
about bodybuilding (Pumping Twins), and even costume dra
mas (maybe not, but he could have helped Sense and 
Sensibility out with a shotgun and a few one-liners). In any 
event, Schwarzenegger lends some serious personality to 
anything hes in, so grab yourself a big tub of popcorn and 
watch the big man from Austria lay the smack down on 
Lucifer.
At 7:30 pm, 10 pm, and 12:30 pm
In McConomy Auditorium
This is Spinal Tap
Sunday, March 5
The worlds loudest band comes to CMU Sunday night in 
this very funny 80s mockumentary. Director Rob Reiner 
plays a filmmaker attempting to document heavy metal titans 
Spinal Tap as they tour in support of their upcoming record 
Smell the Glove. The entire film is a farce - a subtle, satiri
cal look at what goes on behind the scenes in rock n roll.
Speaking of behind the scenes in rock n roll, remember 
those commercials that were like Get a job in rock and roll, 
and they always showed some guy ordering people around 
and being all tough? Whatever. I guarantee the phone num
ber was really some roadie training school where the only 
thing they teach you is how to lift heavy things and score 
with groupies.
Nevertheless, the entire film is worth your time to watch 
simply for the part where a member of Spinal Tap explains 
why the volume control on their amps goes to 11 rather than 
the standard 10, one of the most ridiculous bits of dialogue 
youll ever see.
At 8 pm, 10 pm, midnight
In McConomy Auditorium

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  FEBRUARY 28, 2000
New Music
Critic asks, Wheres the beat?
Album Title: Organ-ized 
Artist: Various Artists 
Label: High Street Records
ir il
out of four stars
by Lynn Tao
Staffwriter
Organ-ized is a 13-track jazz album featuring an all Hammond B3 
Organ arrangement of some classic jazz pieces, such as Ashley Blue, 
Swamp Road, and Micky Fick. The compact disc showcases an allstar cast, including Joey DeFrancesco, John Medeski, Galactic, and 
Mike Finnegan.
There are a few tunes in Organ-ized from which you walk away with 
the melody still resonating in your head. The rest of the CD was a blur 
of improv, with a sporadic bass going in the back like a hacking cough, 
asking for change every now and then. Ashley Blue, the first track, 
started the album on a positive definitive path, but the following tunes 
fail to live up to its potential. The CD, as a tribute to the organ, at times 
makes you think youre in a funeral parlor  albeit a very cheerful and 
ebullient funeral parlor.
While it was obvious that the organists on this album were capable 
of exploring the full potential of the Hammond B3 Organ, the pieces 
were dry. Being a compilation, the music style varied a lot  from 
slide-down-the-banister energetic to Barnes & Noble lethargic. 
However, when I tried to listen to individual songs for the unique 
funk each song was supposed to deliver, I couldnt find any. Each 
piece kept me alert for an approximate 30 seconds before fading com
fortably into the background noise.
The exception to that was Mike Finnegans Just a Little Bit  there 
was definitely quite a bit of head-bopping pleasure in this blues-rock 
arrangement. Its sweet syncopation makes everything in life seem like 
a breeze. Another high point of the CD was Mercy, Mercy, Mercy per
formed by Mick Weaver. There were some very strong chords that just 
echo the deep sentiment of longing and affection of everyones musi
cian.
If you really like the sound of an organ, then maybe youll like this 
album. However, this is not the sort of CD you want to use to impress 
a cute girl over a romantic dinner. I can see it as useful if you present 
it to your dentist for him to play to make root canals less tolerable than 
they are already.
IRE+Na tRaion leRw 
siNWowi tooirwda
Student Members of the Campus Master Planning Committee 
Invite
ALL Students of the CMU Community
to
What: Discussion of the long-range development of the CMU 
campus.
Why; To impact the future development and expansion of the 
CMU campus. Here is your chance to review and react to 
the proposed plans by the ASG architectural firm.'; .
When:
First Years & Sophomores Mon 2/28
Juniors, Seniors & Above Tues 2/29
Graduate Students Wed 3/1
Athletes (IM/Varsity/Club) Wed 3/1
Fraternities Thurs 3/2
Where: Margaret Morrison 213
For further information, contact Rcnce Habib a
5-6:30PM 
5-6:S0PM 
5-6:30PM 
7-8:30PM 
5-6:30PM
rtin at i\vm:tnin@iiti<irew ,
NEED A GOOD 
APARTMENT FOR 
NEXT YEAR?
CALL US NOW! 
795 - 5845
E.S. MANAGEMENT HAS BEAUTIFUL STUDIO i, 2, 3, & 4 BED
ROOM APARTMENTS IN NORTH OAKLAND, SHADYSIDE, 
SQUIRREL HILL, AND FRIENDSHIP.
FOR EXAMPLE:
North Oakland: 2l8 & 222 North Craig Street
1, 3, & 4 Bedrooms, completely renovated luxury apartments 
with c/Air, parking, laundry in Bldg. $525~$I200+
Shadyside: 626 Maryland Avenue2, 3, & 4 BP-> completely renovated large luxury apartments,
HW floors, a/c, g/d, d/w, laundry in building, & decorative fire 
place. $995-$I200+
All good apartments are rented early
CALL E.S. MANAGEMENT TODAY!
ANNOUNCING THE MAINSTREET MARKET, LOCAT
ED IN THE BEAUTIFUL ATRIUM OF NEWELL-SIMON 
HALL. WE OFFER CONTINENTAL BREAKFAST, 
LUNCH, AND DINNER. WE ARE OPEN FROM 
8AM - 7PM MON. - THURS. AND 8AM - 4PM FRIDAY.
WE OFFER DAILY SPECIALS.
IF YOU DONT FEEL LIKE COOKING... STOP BY AND 
PICK UP A MEAL FOR YOU AND YOUR FAMILY. 
YOULL BE GLAD YOU DID!
Fall 2000
Computer
Skills
Teaching
Positions
for Undergraduate 
Students
Teach credit-bearing 
basic computing skills class
Prerequisite skills include: 
Excellent communication skills 
Experience with Mac & PC operating systems 
Experience with Mulberry, basic Unix, Word,
& Excel
DFFoaoeniHWAyNMW3NcdnDRcNMW
(JOB#255) CSW Instructor
Computer Education/Computing Services
qDaeWNy DM SecdAH eW 
zP1U gDYKNH O:NMAN
Senn JT 3z9z9
HEADACHES?
SDAny KN aeAHNy KR dYNHHAYN N5NYWNy KR WrN kroYy IDneYH DY u,bfI kLLkmi 
gDY e aDMHAnWeWoDM DM uoHyDc kDDWr GNcD:en vronN RDA Sleep. Senn 
OnFDMHD Oi SDHWe fi Ii fi eMy GDKNYWD Si IoaroNMso fi Ii fi eW681-3737
fYi SDHWe eMy fYi IoaroNMso re:N HAYwoaennR 
YNcD:Ny krDAHeMyH AdDM krDAHeMyH DF 
ocdeaWNy voHyDc WNNWriDENTIST ON CAMPUS
StudentDiscounts50% OFF ALL 
SERVICES
bNY:oaNH e:eoneKnN
EmergenciesCrownsConsultsCum Treatment
BleachingBridgesBondingRetainers
FillingsRoot CanalsCleaningWisdom Teeth Extractions

---------------------------------------------------

by Scott Adams
HAVE YOU MET YOUR 
NEW LAB PARTNER?
I HAVE A WAY 
WITH TECHNOLOGY
MY NAME IS 
PAUL TERGEIST
I WISH I HAD A 
NICKEL FOR 
EVERY TIME THAT 
HAPPENED TO A 
CO-WORKER. (
THIS TECHNOLOGY 
WILL WORK OR MY 
NAME ISNT 
PAUL TERGEIST.MY PEN IS 
HOVERING!
SYSTEM
FAILURE
THE TECHNOLOGY DEMOMY PARTNER IS 
CHANNELING THE 
ANGRY ENERGY 
OF A THOUSAND 
DEAD SOULS.
PUT TOGETHER A 
DEMO OF OUR NEW 
PRODUCT. OUR 
CEO WANTS TO 
SEE IT. I-----------------
IF IT HAD A USER 
INTERFACE YOU 
WOULD SEE SOME
THING HERE. . . 
HERE. . .AND SOME' 
TIMES HERE. /------
WHY CANT 
YOU BE MORE 
LIKE THAT?
AND THEN YOU'D 
BE SAYING, "I 
GOTTA GET ME 
SOME OF THAT."
THE SOFTWARE 
ISNT 100 % r 
COMPLETE. J
ANY
QUESTIONS?
I'VE NEVER HEARD 
OF THE DOGBERT 
GULLIBILITY 
AWARD, BUT ITS 
AN HONOR TO BE 
-----NOMINATED
I'M PLANNING TO 
GIVE WORTHLESS 
AWARDS TO FAMOUS
CamCpau r--------------------
I WOULD READ 
BOB'S BIOGRAPHY 
BUT IT'S COMPRISED 
ENTIRELY OF FALSE 
MEMORIES PLANTED 
BY HIS HERBAL 
THERAPIST.
IF ENOUGH 
CELEBRITIES 
COME TO THE 
AWARD CEREMONY, 
IT WILL BECOME 
PRESTIGIOUS, 'p
IT LOOKS LIKE A 
STICK BUT ITS 
SOLID GOLD. r
THE LIFETIME 
GULLIBILITY 
AWARD GOES TO 
BOB FLABEAU.
WOW!
...top NEXT To 
-W F^OJt|os\ 
14, TU&
CTPM, 
FEATURING* 0R 
tolPlfaT N 
TUESDUT
CPUMBAJt 
F& TlXe 
PmiK-KTo
5 2-21 'Hii.E'<NoK-'iJOltUPMrTN'WvM.HoH-i.eauiTvjR.VJE.f
ENTRANCE INSTRUCTIONS
1. CLOSE YOUR EYES.
2. OPEN POOR.
3. RUN IN AS FAST 
AS YOU CAN.
BkMWNt OTt^OUTIA 
(AKRK&T...EAU
YWNEYEHEU
Ri0Ne,L
mow-StayiToJi.HUT
4ToP YWINfc 
RFIbyMbeg PKiT 
ANP t/PVE ON 
WlTtA YOUR 
LIFE...
NYJU
IN^TM-n
'fi'M'W. H0t4-QUrtUR.HETtiOM-^eOLKtUB.tAET-Z5 v*JU-&Y KCM-4GQ01T0R. MET
mmmm b e
S
1 ome people think it might be helpful to have another 
'person help out with laying out the Comics section. 
Well it isnt. Note that the more successful comic characivw ters do things better by themselves. Take Dilbert, for
example, who has a variety of psychological issues caused
Student Comics Galore! by the stress induced upon him by his boss and structure
 of corporate America. Enjoy the comics.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  FEBRUARY 28, 2000Lg
N barvoNYowNY boN boMy fNHWD geYyNY boN pNoHHNM
Hand in Hand Shouting Across the Land, I Demand
by: James Kenney (jim@dorkorg.com)b y Bill
Today I saw one man help a one armed man hit a 
button on the bus. Today I saw two men missing 
hands, 3 in total. The latter was missing both, I felt 
twice as much pity for him, it was very mathematical 
matter of factual for me. There is a Mel Brooks film 
where a man is about to speak and he begins by 
saying "lend me your ears', the eager crowd throws 
a barrage of ears at the speaker, laughter ensues.
New E\o Id
1 s?1
comcdy erotica mel gibsonjLas[ II NV\e. I
Sometimes low brow humor makes me think. If a 
man has just been leant over 100 ears, what could 
he possibly do with them, but the more disturbing 
part is how is he going to give them back to their 
owners? Is there a late fee, are the more recent ears 
loaned for a shorter period of time? Maybe if I lost 
my hand to a tractor I would cheer myself up by 
saying the tractor was just "borrowing" my hand.
I bet a tractor would love to get its hands on my 
hand, either one. He could turn himself on using 
my hand, he could clean his windshield, pick thorns 
out of his tires, slap the farmer's wife across her 
arse, and none would be the wiser. Little farmer 
boy Joey Joe would probably be blamed and sent 
to bed without dinner. Oh, I bet that bastard of a 
tractor would love to hear poor Joey's innocent cries.
But the tractor didn't realize Joey had some TNT, 
and even with my hand I don't think that tractor 
could have pulled the burning TNT out of his gas 
tank in time. Sure Joey lost his hand in the explosion, 
but he can still use his mind. For instance, when I 
was telling him about this comic, he told me it would 
be witty to use the line "I've got to hand it to ya", 
well I've got to hand it to him, it was a hilarious idea.
by bofAb I in
The Phatmaster
http://phat.res.cmu.edu/phatmaster/
Today's the day! Today's the day I stop acting like a pathetic loser! Today's the day I go to a party, have some fun, and begin my guest to attain normality!
rfiJj.GCJr.fs.rj.drew 
x 1 /
I'll just do a guick check to see what's on Slashdot before I leave, you know, to catch up on current events, for conversation topics.
Six Hours Later...
Dainmit, why dont they have metametamoderation?
SLASHDOT: IT'S NOT JUST AN ADDICTION, XT'S A DISEASE.
WooHoo.1 IT S TOE 
WEEK AFTER 
THANKSGIVING.'
TlME ao &ra ON A 
SCARF... HAT...MlTTENS...
AND LET THE SLEDDING
LpgLoA ipteAv
noA1 Look OUTnoEp6 SuE PRACTICING 
THING'S MY CHIPPING. 
NoT 
setBCl
eA MY lo TEARS OF
pdeLCpA2p1 euMp ApMpm
SEEN SUCH MISERABLE
PoMpEcpm HpgCBpmlu
ITs NEVER BEEN Arts Livn ga13-ack
I DON'T EVEN KNOW 
WHY I CAME OUTSIDE, 
IT'S SO BAD/
WHEN You'Re THROUGH 
CURSE ranting, could You You, smear some suntan 
|_/v Lotion on MY SACK?
jrzlck 'TT
SNoVJ, DARN IT/s omllice fmr
CLOUDS To SNOW/
i omllice vmr
CIPUDS To LISTEN 
To ME/
DuRiNG THE LATE FALL 
AND WINTER -oAan1 
TViE EARTH'S NORTHERN 
HEMISPHERE TILTS AWAY 
FRoM THE SUN. \
THIS PART oF THE PLANET,
$150T 1he ar0t5n 0it1$eT
SHORTER DATS, AND PRESENTS 
A SMALLER TARGET FoR s 
udwpo opfCpgCdMl
VJHiCH MEANS IT 
GETS COLDER AND
2oxbpm gAb 2oxbpml
pU C 0r$ vy. gpurMI 
MAKiNG WANNA PLAY 
THIS CLEAR TENNIS? 
ENOUGH?/
IT'S SNOWING.' IT'S 
SNOWING/ IT'S ACTUALLY 
SNoWiNG/
1 KNEW >F I SAT OUT 
HERE LONG ENOUGH, 
MOTHER NATURE WOULD 
COME THROUGH/ I 
KNEW IT/ I KNEW IT/ ~ ' ;
PETER, WILL YOU i 
CLOSE THE BATHRooM  i 
WiNDoW WHEN YoU 
BLOW-DRY YoUR HAiR?/ \
;illft1
"~x/ THEvrviW.loxlrol.comA-trfy/i-yP'Ah'y
ELDRITCH I
ckc~L you Kr emi'- So cA^j lAj(?iyc K

---------------------------------------------------

Calendar
28 February 2000THE TARTANPage Llo
Upcoming Pittsburgh Concerts
March
12 Pretenders - P
12 Type O Negative - M
17 Queensryche - M
18 Crosby, Stills, Nash, & Young - MA 
18 Paula Cole - R
20 Filter - M
22 Matthew Sweet - M
23 Reel Big Fish - M
April
3Fighting Gravity - R14Creed - MA
4Suicide Machines - L14Shannon Curfman - M
6Fiona Apple - P15Dick Dale - R
7Warren Zevon - Rf i 18The Arsonists - L
10Reverend Horton Heat - G
/ J j 25Bruce Springsteen and
12DMX-MA"\y[the E Street Band - MA
12H20-G' f- 25Oasis - P
The Venues:
A.J. Palumbo Center (P) - 1304 Forbes Ave. (391-1111) 
Club Laga (L) - 3609 Forbes Ave. (682-2050)
Graffiti Showcase (G) - 4615 Baum Blvd. (682-4210) 
Mellon Arena (MA) - 66 Mario Lemieux Place (642-1300) 
Metropol (M) - 1600 Smailman St. (261-4512)
Rosebud (R) - 1650 Smailman St. (261-2199)
GNeweM mNnnNY^OYW bWeFF
musicmuseumsreligion
The Oxfam America Hunger 
Banquet will take place today from 6 to 8 
pm in Rangos Hall of the University Center. 
Admission is $5. Tickets are available in the 
Student Life Office, Morewood Gardens ATower. For more information, call (412) 
268-2142.
Storyteller Jackie Jonas will be per
forming this Tuesday in the 
McKenna/Peter/Wright Room of the 
University Center at noon. This event is co
sponsored by the Black Faculty and Staff 
Association and the Carnegie Mellon 
Womens Association.
The Kuntu Repertory Theatre will be 
performing a collage of Pittsburghs own 
jazz and blues artists, entitled Blues in Jazz 
Water, this Tuesday at 7 pm in the 
University Center Rangos Ballroom. The 
performance is open to the public and free.
The University Center Art Gallery is
currently showing Lifelines, by Jennifer 
Lindow through this Saturday. In her first 
solo exhibition, Lindow presents work that 
connects her world with her own values and 
perceptions.
The Regina Gouger Miller Gallery in
the Purnell Center is celebrating its inau
gural season with three installations 
through this Friday. The gallery is open 
Tuesday through Sunday from 11:30 am to
5 pm.
The School of Musics Spring 
Musical, The Boyfriend, a musical com
edy about the Roaring Twenties, will be per
formed at 8 pm, March 16-18, and 2:30 pm, 
March 19. All performances will be in the 
Kresge Theater in the College of Fine Arts 
building. Tickets are $20 for reserved seats 
and $12 for general seating. Order tickets 
by calling (412) 268-2383 or emailing Amy 
Stabenow at stabenow@andrew.cmu.edu.
Kaffeestunde is held every Tuesday 
from 3:30 to 5 pm in Skibo coffeehouse. All 
speakers of German are invited.
Spanish Table takes place every 
Tuesday from 11:30 am to 1 pm in Skibo 
Coffeehouse. All speakers and levels of 
Spanish are welcome.
around
An International Potluck Dinner
will be held Saturday, March 11 at 7 pm at 
Hostelling International, 830 Warrington 
Avenue. Bring a favorite dish and talk with 
hostellers about world travel. This event is 
free and open to the public. Call (412) 431- 
4910 for more information.
The Whiskey Rebellion
Toastmasters meet every week at the 
Magee Community Center on 745 
Greenfield Avenue every Wednesday 
evening from 7 pm to 8:30 pm. Details 
about this public speaking club and direc
tions are available by visiting http://trfn.clpgh.org/speak. Otherwise, feel 
free to call (412) 481-0728 or email hays@city-net. com.
Music on the Edge, the University of 
Pittsburghs new music series, will present a 
concert featuring Basso Bongo, as they per
form music on electronic doublebass and a 
MIDI-enhanced percussion this "Riesday at
8 pm in the Frick Fine Arts Auditorium in 
Oakland. Tickets are $8 at the door, and $5 
for students and seniors.
Guitarist/Composer John G. 
Maione will be appearing at a CD release 
party this Thursday at 7 pm at Rosebud in 
the Strip District. Performance begins 
around 7:30. Admission is free and every
one is welcome. For more information, con
tact John Maione at (412) 621-7609.
The Ploughmans Lunch will be play
ing this Friday and Saturday at 8 pm at Mr. 
Smalls Funhouse, located at 139 Grant 
Avenue in Millvale. A live recording will 
take place there, sponsored by In Pittsburgh News Weekly and WYEP 91.3 FM. For more 
info, call (412) 821-4447.
Lil Ed and the Blues Imperials will 
be playing this Friday at Moondogs, located 
at 378 Freeport Road. The show starts at 10 
pm. For information, call (412) 828-2040.
The River City Brass Band opens its 
spring concert series this Saturday at the 
Carnegie Music Hall in Oakland with a pro
gram entitled Rhapsody in Blue. This con
cert will include George Gershwins 
Rhapsody in Blue, which will feature 
pianist and CMU instructor Mark Carver as 
guest artist. For more information, call 
(412) 322-7222.
Traditional American Social Dance 
with Celtic Irish music will take place 
this Saturday in Thistle Hall of the old Skibo 
Gym from 6:30 pm to 9:30 pm. Dances 
include the Square and Contra dances. 
Beginners welcome. Admission is $3 for stu
dents and $6 for everyone else.
The Phillips String Quartet will per
form a chamber music recital at the Frick 
Fine Arts Auditorium in Oakland on 
Sunday, March 12 at 3 pm. Admission is 
free. For more information, call the 
University of Pittsburgh Department of 
Musics concert office at (412) 624-4125.
Beyond the Frame, an exhibition of the 
work of fiber artist Janet Lorini, is currently 
being shown at the Society for 
Contemporary Crafts One Mellon Bank 
Center Gallery through March 10. For more 
information, call (412) 261-7003.
The Carnegie Science Center on the
North Side is currently presenting Who 
Dun It: The Science of Forensics through 
March 19. Also, the Buhl Planetarium will 
be showing Stars of the Pharaohs. For 
more information, call (412) 237-3400.
First Person Singular, a juried exhibi
tion at the Pittsburgh Center for the Arts by 
its guild members, will continue to run until 
April 23. Call (724) 327-2549 for more 
information.
The Andy Warhol Museum is current
ly exhibiting Andy Warhol Drawings 1942- 
1987. The exhibit runs through April 30 
and is located on 117 Sandusky Street. For 
more information, call (412) 237-8300 or 
visit http://www.warhol.org.
talks/lectures
The Center for African-American 
Urban Studies and the Economy guest 
speaker series continues this Friday with 
Farah Jasmine Griffin of the University of 
Pennsylvania English Department. Her talk 
is titled Myths and Meanings of Billie 
Holiday. It begins at 3:30 pm and will take 
place in Baker Hall 255A.
theater
The Pittsburgh Savoyards present HMS Pinafore on March 3-5, 10-12, and 
17-19 at the Andrew Carnegie Free Library 
Music Hall. Friday and Saturday perfor
mances begin at 8 pm, and Sunday shows 
start at 2:30 pm. For more information or 
directions, visit http://www.trfn.com/savo- yard.
The Graduate Bible Study meets this 
semester on Thursdays. This week they will 
meet in the Pake Room of the University 
Center to read and discuss the last portion 
of the second chapter of Pauls letter to the 
Galatians. For more information or ques
tions, call David Laughlin at (412) 268- 
2706 or write to dl0p@ece.cmu.edu.
Roman Catholic Mass takes place on 
Sundays at 10:30 am and 8 pm in Mellon 
Auditorium, Posner Hall. It is also held 
daily at 12:30 pm in the University Center 
chapel. For more information, contact 
the Ryan Catholic Newman Center at 
681-3181.
ocal movies
Free showings of The Wonder Boys
will take place this Tuesday at 7:30 pm and 
10 pm in McConomy Auditorium. Tickets 
are available in Wean Commons starting at 
6 pm. Only one ticket per CMU student and 
you must be present to purchase it.
The Harris Theater is showing The Emperor and the Assassin, the true story of 
Ying Zheng, a third-century visionary 
obsessed with unifying Chinas seven king
doms. It will play until March 9. The theater 
is located at 809 Liberty Avenue, 
Downtown. For admission prices and cur
rent showtimes, call (412) 682-4111.
The Regent Square Theater will show Sweet and Lowdown, the newest film from 
Woody Allen that explores human neuroses 
and jazz, starting March 3. The film stars 
Sean Penn, Samantha Morton, Uma 
Thurman, Anthony LaPaglia, and John 
Waters. The theater is located at 1035 
South Braddock Avenue, Edgewood. For 
admission prices and current showtimes, 
caH (412) 682-4111.
The Melwood Screening Room will 
show Genghis Blues starting March 3. This 
Academy Award nominated film for Best 
Documentary follows blind San Francisco 
blues singer Paul Pen as he travels to Outer 
Mongolia to particiate in the Tuvan Throat 
Singing Competition.voxpopuli
Fun Dip 1= PhD Dissertation
official voice of rawk
HvNyoHr KDR
el dude-arino
12 swiss cake rolls tor a dollar?!
What a good deal!
"I didn'l want to have 
to tell my kid that 
boobsweat stains 
made me go home."
You can't go in 
there, there could 
be cubes the size 
of gorillas!
MWhat's your 
zip code, 
baby?
-M
RDA aeM_W 
yAHW FDY 
:DcoWB
making a pitt panther 
out of chicken wire is 
harder than you think!
Urge to kill fading....fading...rising!...fading...gone.
Chapter 4: Like a good modern pig, Esqueala decided that the first thing to do was to 
search the Web for available orifices. So, with her pink cloven hoof, she typed the 
word "orifice" into a search engine. But the only orifices that she turned up online 
were either intended for use as plumbing instruments or already securely attached to 
naked people. Disappointed, she soaked herself in some tequila.
Damn 
that DJ 
made my 
day.
ureW e wDDy N5aneceWoDMB 
3VCeYewnoyoMwBV
, OI Nn GLp'lfi
Vox Populi is a forum open to the entire campus community! To 
submit a vox, simply email it to tartan@andrew.cmu.edu, send it 
to The Tartan, University Center, Box 17 via campus mail, or drop 
it in the Vox Populi drop box on the slick-looking Tartan server. 
The comments in this box do not reflect the views of The Tartan 
or anybody in general. It is basically a bunch of gibberish, and if 
anything sounds remotely real or interesting, then you're reading 
way too much into it.
