to 2000 Voting Statistics
316 total voles 
1 name on ballot 
9 valid write-ins
780 lotas votes 
1 name on ballot 
16 valid write-ins
317 total voles 
1 name on ballot
4 valid write-ins
818 tola! votes 
4 names on ballot
3 valid write-ins
Justin Suissa/Art Editor
Volume 94, Issue 23tartan@andrew.cmu.edu 24 April 2000
Student Senate elections draw low voter turnout
by Aseem Gupta
Webmaster
After all the votes for this years 
student government elections were 
counted, election board members 
found that 317 students, or approx
imately five percent of the under
graduate population, turned out to 
vote this year. Erin Fitzgerald was 
the winner in the Student Body 
President race with 264 votes, or 
83.2 percent of total votes. The 
next closest candidate was Optimus 
Prime, who was written in, with 
two percent of the total votes. 
Prime was deemed ineligible 
because he is not an activities-fee 
paying student at CMU, not to men
tion the fact that he does not actu
ally exist.
I dont know if Id say that elec
tions went well, but Icl say that they 
went as well as I could have hoped, 
said Jeffrey Thibert, a junior psy
chology major and Elections Chair 
for the 2000 elections. There are 
definitely some things about the 
elections this semester that could 
have been improved.
I was tremendously disappoint
ed this year, not only at the voting 
polls but on the ballots them
selves, said Fitzgerald. I think 
that there are a number of improve
ments that Senate can make in the 
future to prevent such low voter 
turnout. Having a greater level of 
competition in the individual repre
sentative elections should make 
voting seem more worthwhile for 
many students and will hopefully 
drive them to vote for the sake of 
choosing the best candidate versus 
simply for the sake of voting.
Compared with last years elec
tions, voter turnout was down over 
61 percent. For the 1999 election, 
819 undergraduates and seven 
graduate students cast votes  not 
even one graduate student voted in 
this years elections for Student 
Body President. Additionally, in 
1999 there were three candidates 
who received well over 100 votes 
each, out of six candidates who 
entered the race.
I think so few students turned 
out for elections because of lack of 
interest and lack of knowledge, 
said Thibert. He went on to say that 
the problem of lack of knowledge 
may have been solved by more pub
licity, for example, bigger posters, 
or painting the fence. He also said 
that more publicity for Student 
Senate would help. Some students 
who came to the table were not
Treasurer
President
780 
* '
even aware that there was a 
Student Senate, much less what 
they did. I think it would benefit 
the election process greatly if 
Senate found some way to get their 
name out there more.
However, Elizabeth Ferrick, a 
senior psychology major and chair 
of the Public Relations committee 
for Student Senate felt differently. 
I think there was more publicity 
this year [than] we did in the past, 
she said. Ferrick felt that the main 
problem that plagued this years 
elections was the fact that the vot
ing table was not outside Doherty 
as it has been in recent years; 
rather, it was inside the UC. Ferrick 
said that had the table been outside 
of Doherty, she felt that more stu
dents might have voted.
While the idea of multiple polling 
stations across the campus was con
sidered, it is an idea that has so far 
not been adopted. According to 
Thibert, because of the paper-based 
system that is currently in place 
that requires polling staff to check
off students names as they vote, it 
would be nearly impossible to syn
chronize paper-based stations 
around campus. Furthermore, 
according to Thibert, the elections 
board had difficulty staffing their 
single voting table. I was barely 
able to fill up the slots for one table, 
and I only filled it because of some 
wonderfully kind friends and 
acquaintances who agreed to give 
up some of their time to sit at the 
table, he said.
Another alternative that has also 
been considered is an electronic 
voting system. The University of 
Pittsburgh uses an electronic voting 
system; however, Pitts system does 
not allow for write-ins, which 
means that for CMUs most recent, 
elections, there would have been 
just one candidate for Student Body 
President. Thibert said that it was 
See ELECTIONS, page 3
UEC, Senate renew 
grade scale debate
by Sara Stille
News Editor
Discussion and debate about the 
conversion of Carnegie Mellons 
current grading system to a 
plus/minus (+/-) system has 
recently entered the University 
Education Council (UEC), Faculty 
Senate, and Student Senate. The 
issue has continuously come up over 
the past 10 years as faculty suggest 
it will give them a more accurate 
way to rate the performance of stu
dents. Many students, however, 
claim that it will induce more 
unwanted competition and pres
sure.
The +/- scheme would change 
grading from a straight A-R scale 
and allow + and - grades.
According to a tentative UEC pro
posal, the grade change would be 
effective from 2002 for all students. 
We had also discussed it being only 
effective for students entering in 
2001 onwards. Having two grading 
systems concurrently will pose con
fusion, especially in courses in 
which there are students from dif
ferent years, said Indira Nair, the 
Vice Provost for Education, in the 
proposal. As a trial, in the Fall I will 
request selected faculty to assign 
final grades in the +/- and regular 
system. Although only the regular 
grades will be officially recorded, 
we would use these data to compare 
the distributions to see how they dif
fer.
Barbara Lazarus, the associate 
provost of academic affairs, said 
See GRADES, page 5
Shaina McGrath/Photo Staff Manager
Fitzgerald, the Academic Affairs committee chair, presented a draft profor +/- grading at Thursdays Student Senate meeting, where the majoragainst it. The issue will now go back to the University
Housing Services leases Shady Oak apartments
by Laine Towey
Assistant News Editor
Housing Services recently completed a 
deal to block lease the entire Shady Oak 
apartments, located across the street 
from Cathedral Mansions, for student 
housing. The Shady Oak will be used as 
another Oakland area apartment to 
gradually reduce the number of students 
currently living in the Amberson apart
ments.
According to Tim Michael, head of 
Housing Services, this is a step in the 
right direction: We have been leasing 
space in the Amberson apartments for
two years and it is our most unpopular 
location in the Oakland apartments, so 
we see this as an opportunity to move to 
a much better location in a nice build
ing.
Housing Services has been talking to 
the owners of the Shady Oak for several 
weeks now, and the lease will begin on 
August 1, in order to make the Shady 
Oak available for students to live in as 
soon as next semester. The lease will 
continue for three years.
Our hope is to interest current upperclass housing residents on campus to 
move to Shady Oak to make additional 
space on the main campus for the firstyear students, said Michael. Many first 
year students have been living in tempo
rary housing for the first months of 
school for the past few years in places 
such as the Shadyside Inn, which is 
located further down Fifth Avenue from 
the CMU campus.
About half of the current residents of 
the Shady Oak attend the University of 
Pittsburgh, and since CMU has leased 
the whole building, those students will 
be forced to leave when their leases 
expire later this summer.
Starting in the fall, the housing rates 
for current CMU students who live in the 
See APARTMENT, page 5
Shaina McGrath/Photo Staff Manager
Construction on Baker Hall continues as workers try to complete the addition 
for Fall 2000 classes. The new wing will hold various classrooms, labs, and 
seminar rooms for the College of Humanities & Social Sciences.
INSIDE THE TARTAN
The new addition to Baker Hall is now nearing 
completion. According to updates, construction 
crews have spent the past couple of weeks pour
ing the remainder of the concrete slabs that sup
port all of the upper three floors of the building. 
The new wing will have 20,000 square feet of 
teaching, researching, and meeting space includ
ing large multimedia classrooms, labs, seminar 
space, and conference rooms.
The wing will be four stories and the ground 
floor will include a coffee bar, lounge, and labs. 
There will be two lecture halls, one with 150 
seats, the other with 75 seats. The new halls will 
be equipped with the latest multimedia equip
ment for teaching and conferences.
According to Andrea Lehman, H&SS develop
ment director, the academic center will be relo
cated to this ground floor for better access. The 
second floor will include the deans offices 
including associate deans, other staff members, 
and a conference room. There will also be a patio 
See BAKER, page 3
Shaina McGrath/Photo Staff Manager
In celebration of its centennial, the University installed a new structure on the Cut near the south 
end of the Purnell Center for the Arts. The centennial display is a cylinder featuring a retrospective 
of the schools 100-year history. The structure is sponsored by the University's Centennial Campaign 
for Carnegie Mellon, a five-year fund-raising effort to generate more than $350 million to benefit 
the Universitys endowment, scholarships, fellowships, professorships, and many other institution
al initiatives. It was designed by University Relations and manufactured by Bunting Graphics Inc. 
It will remain on campus through May 2001.
Forum
Should genetically 
engineered foods 
have labels? Should 
they be illegal? 
Europe thinks so. 
page 6
Sports
UAA Championships 
are coming up this 
week for CMU golf, 
tennis, and track 
teams, 
page 12
Arts & Living
Take a look at Earth 
Day 2000 at CMU. 
page L1
EARTH DAY2000
Science & 
Technology
Read about how 
CMU is the Number 
One wired school in 
the nation and more, 
page L6
Entertainment
Make sure you 
get a big dose of 
Momo before she 
takes off for the 
summer, 
page L11
Calendar
Before you 
register, learn 
some useless 
trivia about 
CMU. 
page L12
316toal Carnegie Mellon s Student Newspaper Since iqo6
Hi R7/I n 0 r r
WEDNESDAY
Hi 61/Lo 46
THURSDAYTHE TARTAN
by Krissy Choi
Staffwriter

---------------------------------------------------

2THE TARTAN  APRIL 24. 2000*0FF THE WIRE-*
Elian Gonzalez reunited with father
MIAMI (AP)Seized in dark
ness, the little castaway adrift for 
five months in an international cus
tody dispute was placed in his 
fathers arms Saturday after federal 
agents used battering rams and 
pepper spray to hustle him from 
Miami and the relatives fighting to 
block his return to communist 
Cuba.
Were taking you to see your 
papa, an agent told a terrified 
Elian Gonzalez, ending the pro
tracted standoff in three frantic 
minutes with a raid that sparked 
protests through Miami and debate 
over the Clinton administration's 
use of force.
Crying with fright, the 6-year-old 
Cuban boy was taken before dawn 
and flown to Andrews Air Force 
Base outside Washington, where he 
was in seclusion with his father, 
stepmother, and baby half-brother.
Though in his fathers custody, 
Elians fate still remains unsettled. 
The courts will ultimately rule on 
whether the boy should remain in 
the United States.
Whats happening? Elian 
yelled in Spanish as riot-clad feder
al agents armed with automatic 
weapons burst into the Miami rela
tives home, ultimately finding him 
in a closet in the arms of the same 
fisherman who had rescued him 
from the sea on Thanksgiving 
Day-and now had to hand him 
over.
Hours later, the boy whose moth
er drowned fleeing Cuba was get
ting reacquainted with his father, 
Juan Miguel Gonzalez.
Elian smiled as he posed for a pic
ture with his father. He seemed to 
be very happy to be back with his 
father, said Gregory Craig, Juan 
Miguel Gonzalezs lawyer. It is 
amazing how quickly that bond re
established itself. It was almost 
instantaneous.
In Havana, Cubans rejoiced. In 
an official statement read over state 
radio stations, the government 
urged Cubans to maintain calm 
and avoid public displays.
After the months-long tug of war 
and failed all-night negotiations, it 
took officers only minutes to
retrieve the boy from the relatives 
who cared for him since his rescue-and defied all previous efforts 
to have him released to his father 
and returned to Cuba.
Elian is safe and no one was seri
ously hurt, Attorney General Janet 
Reno said afterward. She said the 
relatives intransigence left her no 
choice but to order the use of force.
Marisleysis Gonzalez, the 21- 
year-old cousin who had cared for 
the boy like a mother, wailed and 
wept through the morning and 
shouted her disdain for the govern
ment.
To have a 6-year-old crying, 
Dont take me, dont take me ... 
This is not America, she yelled as 
hundreds of Cuban-Americans 
poured into the streets to protest 
what they saw as Washingtons 
betrayal and what they feared 
would be Cuban President Fidel 
Castros propaganda victory.
She and her father, Lazaro 
Gonzalez, who had temporary cus
tody of Elian, later left for 
Washington to try to see Elian and 
his father.
As protests mounted in Miami, 
police fired tear gas into one crowd, 
stationed two gray, buses with bars 
on the windows in the center of 
Little Havana and began handcuff
ing demonstrators.
At 5 am, more than 20 agents in 
white vans arrived at the house of 
Lazaro Gonzalez, the boys greatuncle, and used rams to get 
through the homes chain-link 
fence and front door.
Maria Elena Quesada, who was 
at the home, said Elian was scream
ing Help me! Help me! Dont take 
me away! in Spanish.
Assassins, shouted supporters 
who had been keeping constant 
vigil outside.
Rushed into a van as officials 
fired clouds of pepper spray to keep 
the crowds back, Elian was soothed 
by an immigration agent who told 
him he was being taken to papa.
This may seem very scary, she 
told him, according to Doris 
Meissner, commissioner of the 
Immigration and Naturalization 
Service. It will soon be better.
On the government plane, where 
he was described as subdued and 
calm, he talked to his father by tele
phone, and was accompanied by a 
psychiatrist.
Juan Miguel Gonzalez, who had 
been staying at a Cuban diplomats 
home outside of Washington since 
he left Havana more than two 
weeks ago with a personal send-off 
from Castro, was told about the 
raid as soon as his son was away 
from the scene.
The decision to act was made by 
Reno, President Clinton said during 
a brief question and answer session 
in the White House Rose Garden. 
She managed this, but I fully sup
port what she did, he said.
Reno said she tried to reach a 
negotiated solution until the final 
moments but the relatives of Elian 
kept moving the goal post and 
raising the hurdles.
Reno said the boy would stay in 
the United States pending further 
court action over the question of 
asylum, as the federal appeals court 
ruled-a statement confirmed by 
Gonzalezs lawyer.
Juan Gonzalez has made a com
mitment to remain in the United 
States during this appeal, and he 
will live up to that commitment, 
Craig said.
A State Department official said 
the reunited family would stay at 
the secured air base for a few days 
and then go to an undisclosed loca
tion in the Washington area.
Reno defended sending armed 
agents to the house, saying officials 
had been told on occasion that 
people would have weapons to pre
vent it from happening. She did 
not say whether any weapons were 
found.
She also said the agent pho
tographed confronting Donato 
Dalrymple in the closet with Elian 
had his gun pointed to the side 
and his finger was not on the trig
ger.
AP photographs showed the 
agent with his trigger finger 
extended alongside the trigger, but 
not gripping it. The gun was point
ed slightly off to the side of the hud
dling man and boy.
Corrections & Clarifications
In Issue 22, the article on the Morewood recreation room should have been credited to Megan Adriance, not 
Jennifer Resick.
The photo caption on page 7 of Issue 22 credited Behnam Farahpour as photo staff; Farahpour is actually a con
tributing editor.
The caption of the photo of the T3 Conference in Issue 21 should have actually stated that the photograph was 
taken at the Andy Warhol Museum for a reception. The conference itself was held on campus.
Please see page L4 for additional corrections regarding last weeks Spring Carnival Issue.
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of an error, please contact Editor-in-Chief Ish Harshawat 
atx8-2111 or tartan@andrew.cmu.edu.
National News
Report says FBI 
agents didnt fire 
at Waco
ST. LOUIS (AP)A simulation of 
the deadly 1993 Branch Davidian siege 
showed that flashes caught on video
tape were most likely sunlight reflect
ing off debris, not government gunfire 
as claimed in a wrongful death law
suit, according to a preliminary report.
Vector Data Systems, the British 
firm that conducted th March 19 
simulation at an Army base in Texas, 
submitted its report earlier this 
month to U.S. District Judge Walter 
Smith Jr., who is presiding over the 
Branch Davidian lawsuit,
Vector found that flashes produced 
by sunlight reflecting off debris lasted 
considerably longer than flashes pro
duced by gunfire, the newspaper said.
That finding would support the 
governments claim that similar 
flashes seen on a 1993 infrared tape 
of the siege were the result of sun
light reflecting off the crumbling 
complex, not gunfire.
The fire started several hours into 
an FBI operation intended to end a 
51-day siege. The government has 
long contended the Davidians them
selves set fire to the retreat and 
caused their own deaths, whether 
by fire or gunshots.
U.S. laptop had 
sensitive info
WASHINGTON (AP)A laptop 
computer missing from the State 
Department since January con
tained highly sensitive information 
about U.S. intelligence gathering, 
the Washington Post reports.
If the laptop was stolen for infor
mation about weapons technology, 
the theft would be one of the most 
serious losses of U.S. classified infor
mation ever. The computer vanished 
in January from a State Department 
conference room.
The Post said the missing comput
er contained thousands of highly 
classified documents about arms 
proliferation issues, including sensi
tive secrets about how the United 
States collects intelligence and 
sources of the information. The 
computer also reportedly contained 
information about the spread of 
missile technology and nuclear, 
chemical, and biological weapons.
Sources told the Post that 
Secretary of State Madeleine 
Albright is furious about the secu
rity lapse. She reportedly is consider
ing transferring responsibility for 
top-secret information from the 
Bureau of Intelligence and Research 
to the Bureau of Diplomatic Security.World News
Tutsi becomes 
president of 
Rwanda
KIGALI, Rwanda (AP)Paul 
Kagame took the oath Saturday as 
this central African countrys first 
Tutsi president, calling on 
Rwandans to shun ethnic divisions 
and vowing to create a nation that 
all its citizens could call home.
Tens of thousands of people wit
nessed Rwandas chief justice swear 
in Kagame at Amahoro Stadium, 
where six years earlier minority 
Tutsis sought refuge from murder
ous Hutu mobs.
It is the first time in the history of 
Rwanda that a change of power had 
taken place without bloodshed, 
said Kagame, 42, who was dressed 
in a dark suit and wore his trade
mark sunglasses. Rwanda will 
become a nation that every 
Rwandan will want to live in.
Kagames ascent to power mirrors 
the life of many Tutsis in Rwanda, 
which won its independence from 
Belgium in 1962. An estimated half 
million of them grew up in exile 
after being persecuted for their eth
nicity at home, only to return as a 
victorious rebel force that stopped 
the 1994 genocide and defeated an 
extremist Hutu government.
Hutu and Tutsi dancers from all 
regions of the country performed as 
a symbol of the unity Kagame said 
he will pursue.
He made a passionate appeal to 
Rwandans in exile to return home 
and rebuild the nation, particularly 
those Hutu refugees still in neigh
boring Congo, where they fled in 
fear of reprisals for the 1994 geno
cide.
But he warned that Rwandan
troops will stay in Congo as long as 
those opposed to his government 
use it as a base to attack Rwanda.
The presidents of Burundi, 
Tanzania, and Zambia and other 
senior African officials attended the 
ceremony.
More than 500,000 Tutsis and 
politically moderate Hutus died at 
the hands of former Hutu soldiers 
and militiamen during the 90 days 
of killings from April to July 1994. 
The killings were stopped only after 
Kagames Rwandan Patriotic Front 
captured Kigali and formed a gov
ernment of national unity.
Tamil rebels seize 
rival base
COLOMBO, Sri Lanka (AP)Sri 
Lankan rebels fighting for an inde
pendent homeland said they cap
tured a key military complex 
Saturday after a furious two-day 
battle, and inflicted heavy casualties 
on government troops.
Military spokesman Brigadier 
General Palitha Fernando said he 
could not confirm or deny the 
rebels claim to have seized the vital 
Elephant Pass base, which houses at 
least 10,000 troops, and the adjoin
ing Yakachchi camp.
We are unable to say either way 
at present, Fernando said. We are 
trying to get in touch with the 
north.
The rebels said 1,000 government 
soldiers were killed in the bloody, 
48-hour operation to capture the 
base, but the military said only 49 
soldiers and 150 rebels had died.
A military statement issued 
Saturday said that heavy fighting 
was continuing and that troops had 
readjusted their defense line north 
of Elephant Pass.
It is not possible independently to 
verify government and rebel claims 
since journalists are barred from the 
battle zone.
The Liberation Tigers of Tamil 
Eelam are fighting for a homeland 
for the minority Tamils. The war, 
which began in 1983, has left more 
than 62,000 people dead in this 
island nation.
The rebels accuse the majority 
Sinhalese of discrimination against 
Tamils with regards to education 
and jobs, a charge that the govern
ment denies.
The base allegedly captured by 
the rebels Saturday guards Elephant 
Pass, a strategic causeway linking 
the northern peninsula with the rest 
of the country. The area got its name 
from the elephants that once waded 
across the shallow lagoons in the 
area.
Since November, the rebels have 
been trying to seize the Elephant 
Pass causeway so that they can 
regain control of their former 
stronghold, Jaffna, which they lost 
in 1995.
The battle escalated in March,' 
with the rebels capturing small 
pockets of land along the 25-mile 
highway.
The conquest of the Elephant 
Pass complex, the largest and wellentrenched military base in the 
north, signified a major victory of 
the Tigers; the rebels said in a state
ment from their London office. The 
LTTE fighters are now in full control 
of the Yakachchi-Elephant Pass sec
tor.
The LTTE said its commandos had 
destroyed several military artillery 
pieces, tanks, armored vehicles and 
ammunition dumps. They claimed 
that government troops had fled 
with the collapse of the base and the 
camp.
the soul never thinks without a
Photographic 
Copy Negatives, 
Prints and Slides 
for Publication, 
Presentation 
and Exhibition 
of your
Carnegie Mellon
artwork
paintings
photographs
illustrations
books and periodicals
correspondence
ephemera
architectural and
engineering drawings
Photography and Graphic Services 
University Relations 
Mellon Institute, Room 223 
268-3217 or 268-3216 
vrow.urxmu.edu/pgs; fiAl.r ELEVATI o/i . rtAlf---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  APRIL 24. 2000
Senate reflects on 
election procedures
ELECTIONS, from page 1 
possible to retain CMUs current 
voting system by using email or the 
Web, but that this system had 
many security issues to be worked 
out. This whole electronic voting 
issue is something that needs to be 
looked into more, and I hope this is 
something that Senate does in the 
future.
Thibert said that those students 
who did vote during the elections 
seemed to care about whom they 
were voting for and what the canditates stood for. They read the 
candidates platforms. If they did
nt feel like they could make an 
informed decision, they 
abstained, said Thibert. In these 
people, and in others who came by, 
I saw the chance for elections to 
become a big deal at this school. 
The main improvements Id like to 
see would be with the number of 
candidates and the turnout for the 
elections. Id also like to see an 
electronic voting system imple
mented, and more publicizing.
Ferrick said that her committee 
was working to provide the student 
body with more information about 
Senate and what it does. She noted 
the introduction of a bi-weekly
Senate newsletter, and said that 
her committee was working to 
make sure that students become 
more aware of the newsletters 
existence. I think there is a gener
al lack of interest in all student 
organizations, she said. She said 
that students generally do not have 
the time to look into the smaller 
issues, and only take notice of larg
er issues. Thibert suggested that 
one possible solution to the lack of 
turnout would be for more contro
versial issues to be raised in stu
dent government so that more stu
dents would be interested in par
ticipating, and in voting.
In the fall I hope to take a more1 
visible role during Orientation and 
the first few weeks of the semester 
so that students will become more 
familiar with who their studentgovernment representatives are' 
and what types of issues we work 
with, said Fitzgerald. By keeping 
myself accessible to those with 
questions and by keeping Senate 
and Student Government focuses 
timely and relevant, I hope that 
more students will be interested in 
getting involved, voicing their 
opinions, and running for an 
office.
News Briefs
Court makes ruling 
in Pitt same-sex 
benefits case
In a preliminary injunction issued yesterday, 
Common Pleas Judge Robert Gallo ordered the 
Pittsburgh Commission on Human Relations to 
halt its investigation of a discrimination complaint 
against the University of Pittsburgh over domestic 
partner benefits. Gallo claimed a state law passed 
in November removed the panels jurisdiction.
His ruling does not in itself end the case, and 
Pitt is now expected to argue for a permanent 
injunction, but it does act as a major setback for 
plaintiffs in the four-year-old lawsuit that con
tends the university discriminated by denying 
health insurance to partners of its gay and lesbian 
employees.
. The case has been watched closely by gay rights 
advocated across Pennsylvania and will set prece
dents for future cases involving Pittsburghs antidiscrimination laws, particularly those involving 
sexual orientation.
Gallo said that Pitts health benefits policy 
appears to be neutral since it precludes partners 
of all unmarried employees, not just homosexual 
partners, from receiving health insurance bene
fits. He also said that the November law exempts 
public universities like Pitt from local ordinances 
'that would compel them to provide health benefits. Clearly, a continuation of this investigation 
will cause Pitt to endure unnecessary inconve
nience and expense, said Gallo.
In a statement released by Pitt officials, the 
university said their health benefits policy is 
legal and nondiscriminatory. The extension of 
benefits can lawfully be based on marital status, 
and there has never been any intent to discrimi
nate against individuals on the basis of sexual 
orientation, read the statement.
Lawyers for the American Civil Liberties Union 
(ACLU), who are representing the plaintiffs, said 
that Pitt has the wrong idea. ACLU lawyer Roslyn 
Litman claim they would be considering their 
options. Another ACLU lawyer, Witold Walczak, 
hinted that the matter was far from being 
resolved. They feel that the case should be 
allowed to proceed since the claims of discrimi
nation predate the November law. They assert 
that marriage is an unfair criterion for benefits 
because homosexuals can not legally marry in 
Pennsylvania.
Biomedical and 
Health Program 
names new head
Todd Przybycien, associate professor of chem
ical engineering, was named head of the new 
Biomedical and Health Engineering (BHE) 
Program in the College of Engineering, effective
July 1. The expanded program replaces the 
Biomedical Engineering Program, which has 
been in operation since 1971.
Przybycien will replace current director 
Michael Domach, professor of chemical engi
neering, who has accepted a one-year appoint
ment with the National Science Foundation, 
after which he will return to the faculty.
Domach helped to establish the new under
graduate double major in BHE and was the first 
instructor to teach the foundation course 
Introduction to Biomedical and Health 
Engineering.
Przybycien will work to encourage College of 
Engineering and non-engineering faculty to 
teach relevant courses for the biomedical and 
health engineering double major. He will lead in 
the development of the curriculum and serve as 
the central contact for the MD-PhD program 
administered by the University of Pittsburgh.
In 1998, Przybycien became an associate pro
fessor in the Department of Chemical 
Engineering at Carnegie Mellon. Before coming 
to CMU, he served as both an assistant and an 
associate professor of chemical engineering at 
Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, as a guest lec
turer/instructor at University College at 
Washington University, and as a senior research 
engineer with Monsanto Agricultural Co. In 
1998, Przybycien was elected a Fellow of the 
American Institute for Medical and Biological 
Engineering.
Compiled by 
Sara Stifle
Several international organizations came together last Friday at the Night 
Market, a traditional night scene found in Hong Kong, China, and 
Taiwan. Groups such as Mayur, TSA, and SIAM displayed traditional 
crafts and served authentic foods, including the stir-fry shown above.
pmething to 
smile about!
Ask about our CMC! 
Dental Plan!
Gentle Airjet Dentist 
Prompt Emergency
Personaliz
Call 681-8011
10% Courtesy for CMU Students and Faculty 
Take the CMU shuttle to our front door  200 North Craig Street
*Cash In,
At campus.HotDispatch.com.
. Is your brain full of HTML, Java, or C/C++? Is "Linux" your middle name? 
campus.HotDispatch.com can turn that knowledge into cash!
HotDispatch is the online marketplace where people buy and sel 
technical expertise. Requesters post their questions with a price 
they'll pay for an answer. Providers (that's you, genius!) 
respond online with answers, and ka-ching! you're making 
money. From your dorm room. When you want. Without 
commitment. For free.
Transacting services online is the wave of the future and 
HotDispatch gets you in on the ground floor. The opportunities 
are limitless. Want to ask a question? Use our $25 
spending credit. Want a class notes exchange?
You got it! And did we mention we're hiring?
Join the HotDispatch revolution! Register by 3/31/00 and you'll be automatically entered 
into the $75,000 HotDispatch Sweepstakes!
{See campus.hotdispatch.com for details.)
Construction continues on Baker Hall addition
Construction on Baker Hall has closed down part of the buildings staircase. 
While some students say the work has been disruptive, others havent even 
noticed that it has been going on.
BAKER, frojn page 1 
where students can sit, talk, and 
exchange ideas with other students 
and faculty,  said Lehman.
Work with air supply ducts, 
water, and heat piping is underway 
throughout the building. Interior 
walls will be- constructed on the 
ground flo >r and electrical wiring 
work is scheduled to begin. 
Masonry work has been started 
with brick around the existing 
building and matching brick is 
expected o cover the currently 
existing concrete block.
This is the first space ever 
specifically dedicated to 
Humanities & Social Sciences. We 
are looking.forward to having extra 
space, said Lehman. With this 
new addition, all sections of H&SS 
will have new space. The English 
Department will move into the cur
rent deans offices and the 
Psychology Department will move 
to the new wing. [There has 
been] tremendous pressure for 
space, said Lehman. The new cen
ter provides an area for speakers 
and other interactions with other 
parts of the school. It gives us the 
opportunity to serve other parts of 
campus. Parts of the wing are also 
designed so that a series of activi
ties can take place conveniently 
and that one event can flow to the 
next.
According to Peg Hart, the senior 
project manager for FMS capital 
projects, the original shape and 
style of building will remain
unchanged while new parts are 
added. The Adamson wing was the 
first addition to Baker Hall, but the 
current construction is the biggest 
addition to the building thus far. It 
took one year to plan, allowing for 
construction to start last July. Hart 
said that workers have been trying 
hard to stay on schedule so that the 
wing can be completed according 
to plan by August and opened for 
Fall 2000 classes. Hart predicts 
that there will also be future 
remodeling projects so that other 
departments can move into new 
spaces.
Many students have been won
dering what the completed project 
will look like, while many other 
students do not even realize that 
the construction is taking place. 
[I] didnt even notice that any
thing is going on, said Angira 
Apte, a sophomore in the Bachelor 
of Arts program.
There were mixed feelings 
among students who have noticed. 
Im pleased that theyve been able 
to maintain order while big con
struction is going on, said one.
It shows respect for the stu
dents, said Heather Dietrich, a 
senior in social and decision sci
ences policy.
Debbie Dressier, a junior electri
cal and computer engineering stu
dent, disagreed, however. I think 
it sucks. Theres no parking and the 
place is full of trucks but Im sure in 
the end itll be worth it, said 
Dressier.

---------------------------------------------------

Waiting  til the
to find a job?
thhes oulnvr hik nuw nimw yhl nwwe ln*uplvwmwnnwhm
Visit our site now. Register and submit your resume. Boom -- youll have access to 
thousands of entry-level positions nationwide. And everything to help you make that 
jump into the real world: apartment searches, city comparisons, deals on cars, 
financial advice, salary ranges and more. So visitthepavement.com. Tick, tick, tick...
thepaMement.com
jobs money apartmentshit the world running

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  APRIL 24, 20005CMU Housing adds Shady Oak to choices
APARTMENT, from page 1 March 24 about the new policy ments are also.flow, a more pleasant
Shady Oak, and opt to stay there, regarding the apartments and. they place to live, 
will be similar to other Oakland had to make the decision whether The apartments are well-kept,
area apartments, such as Fairfax' or not to live there next year by have large sunny jyindows and sevand Cathedral Mansions, said April 1. eral charming: features that vary
Michael. I would have preferred to have throughout the. j|uilding like fire
; Many Carnegie Mellon students known three months in advance, places, bookcases, ceiling fans, 
have decided to leave the Shady said Gaken. Right now, were run- neat woodwork.!.
Oak instead of paying the new ning around trying to find an apart- Michael also said that by May 1,
prices for living, in the apartments ment so we wont be homeless next the floor plans,/pictures, and curor gaining more roommates, a mea- year.... If they had told us earlier, it rent room descriptions of many 
sure which would happen as a would have [been] better. Shady Oak rooms will be available
result of CMU taking over the CMU used the Shady Oak for stu- on the Internet and can be found on 
apartmehts. dent housing in the past, but left in the Web site fdjr CMU housing, so
! It was all kind of last minute, the late 1980s because of poor more students; will be able to
aid Kristen Gaken, a junior history conditions, said Michael. But now, decide for themselves if they want
and policy major and a current the building has been remodeled, to take advantage of the new living
Shady Oak resident. Housing and is under new ownership, option for tfief 2000-2001 school
Services reportedly told them on According to Michael, the apart- year.
Rome
^ Passport photos, railpasses/ ISICs, 
hostefrards, airport transfere^gStfmiide:
m books and moiSel'
^abviAYS
-toheupSAye-Hte
ewattcwx
1-8OO-H08-8887.
1 Council1 Travel^______
118 Meyran Ave.
Oakland 683-1881
Casablanca
Mexico City
wir
./I
EPA estimated 32/39 City/Hwy automatic, 34/41 City/Hwy manual.
New [Finance Plan) thru Toyota Motor Credit helps those with limited 
credit history buy or lease a new Echo or Celica. See dealer for details.
r <S? TOYOTA real values, every day, -j wWW.gettoyOt.COm
Crime and Incident Report
4/16 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF, 4:15 pm  An offi
cer was called to respond to the Morewood Gardens ATower, where person(s) unknown had discharged a fire 
extinguisher. The officer responding found a fine pow
der covering the entire elevator. CPS was notified for a 
clean-up.
4/16 MEDICAL, 7:04 pm  Campus Police and 
EMS were dispatched to an office on the third floor of 
the University Center in response to a call about a finger 
injury. The victim stated that she cut her left index fin
ger with a razor blade while trimming pieces of paper. 
The victim politely declined transportation to a hospi
tal.
4/17 THEFT, 2:46 pm  Campus Police was 
informed that sometime over the weekend, a pallet jack 
was stolen from around the Highlander loading dock. 
The jack has two forks that go under a wooden pallet 
and then they get jacked up to lift the pallet. There is no 
other practical use for a pallet jack, and its size makes it 
difficult to conceal, so campus police were requested to 
be on the lookout for a wayward pallet jack.
4/18 WATER DAMAGE, 3:37 am  In response 
to a complaint of water damage in Baker Hall, an officer 
arrived to find water dripping between the first and sec
ond rows of computers in 140E. Garbage cans were 
placed under the drips and plastic bags were put over 
the four network connectors'located near the drippage. 
It was at that point that a. piece of tile fell into the trash 
can. The officer then went up one floor and observed 
that a pipe had split on the second floor causing water 
to stream out onto the floor. FMS was notified, and 
shut off the main water line, stopping the water. Five 
boxes of paper, and two briefcases were on the floor in 
the second floor room, and were soaked in half an inch 
of water. CPS then cleared the area of water.
4/18 PROPULSION OF MISSILES ONTO 
ROAD, 6:55 pm  Campus Police spoke to a 68-yearold woman who was struck on the side of her face by a 
paintball while seated on the passenger side of a station 
wagon travelling southbound on Morewood Avenue. 
The ball entered the drivers side window, missing the
driver, and striking the woman in the face. The victim 
stated that the paintball that struck her was blue and 
white in color. She was advised that the paint was non
toxic and could be removed from her clothing with soap 
and water. The victim reported some swelling at the 
time of the incident, but it had gone down later in the 
evening, when Campus Police called her to follow up.
4/19 SUSPICIOUS PERSON, 4:47 pm  A sus
picious person leaving Hamerschlag Hall was reported 
to Campus Police. The actor was described as a white 
male in his 40s, dirty, with a closed right eye. The actor 
was then observed heading into Wean Hall, but then 
went outside where he was stopped by Campus Police. 
He was IDed via a U.S. Passport. The actor told campus 
police that he likes to travel the country and listen to 
public lectures in computer science, and was on campus 
to see if there were any interesting lectures he could 
attend. The actor had no permanent address, and was 
told that he had to leave campus since he had no CMU 
affiliation. If he returns he will be cited or arrested.
4/20 HAZARDOUS CONDITION, 2:46 am 
.Three Campus police officers were dispatched to 
Mellon Institute to investigate a report of a Coke 
machine smoldering on the fifth floor. The machine 
was unplugged and the smoke stopped coming out of 
the can dispenser, from where it had been emanating 
before. An Out of Order sign was attached to the 
machine.
0 Campus Chief of Police James Lapaglia reviews all 
reports prior to release.
 Only three people on The Tartan staff see the 
reports: the Editor-in-Chief the News Editor, and the 
staffwriter typing the report.
 All personal names of complainants, victims, sus
pects, and fraternities are omitted from the printed 
report. Ethnic descriptions and other personal details 
are given only in the context of complete descriptions.
0 Not every incident that occurs appears in the 
report.
Compiled by 
Bryan KaplanPolice arrest DC reform activist
WASHINGTON "(AP)  As bystanders 
chanted Go -Granny go, police arrested 
and .euf-fed' campaign finance and environ
mental reform activist Granny D in the 
rotunda of the U.S. Capitol on Friday.
Doris Haddock, 90, of Dublin, N.H., aka 
Granny D, and 29 others were arrested for 
demonstrating illegally inside the Capitol 
building, Capitol Police Captain Dan 
Nichols said. Police said Haddock was 
released later in the day after being issued a 
citation.
Our right to alter our government must 
be used to sweep these halls clean of greedy 
interests so that people may use this gov
ernment in service to each others needs 
and to protect the condition of our earth, 
Haddock said on the Senate lawn prior to 
the pre-orchestrated arrests.
The Capitol Police took Haddock and the 
other activists to their headquarters. 
Nichols said a conviction for protesting 
inside the Capitol carries a maximum fine 
of $500 and six months in jail. Their case 
will be heard in D.C. Superior Court.
Im curious to know how its going to go, 
whether Im going to be scared or afraid, 
Haddock said minutes before her first 
arrest.
Granny D spent 14 months, from January 
1999 to February 2000, walking from 
Pasadena, Calif., to Washington D.C., to 
raise awareness of the need for changing 
laws governing the raising and use of 
money in election campaigns.
TOYOTA-101
MORE VALUE/LESS MONEY
INTRODUCING"TOYOTA ECHO
APARTMENT, from page 1 
Shady Oak, and opt to stay there, 
will be similar to other Oakland 
rea apartments, such as Fairfax' 
and Cathedral Mansions, said 
Michael.
; Many Carnegie Me.llon students 
have decided to leave the Shady 
Oak insted of paying the new 
prices for living, in the apartments 
or gaining more roommates, a mea
sure which would happen as a 
result of CMU taking over the 
apartmehts.
! It was all kind of last minute, 
>aid Kristen Gaken, a junior history 
and policy major and a current 
Shady Oak resident. Housing 
Services reportedly told them on
ments are also now.a more pleasant 
place to live.
The apartments are well-kept, 
have large sunny windows and sev
eral charming features that vary 
throughout the. jbuilding like fire 
places, bookcases, ceiling fans, 
neat woodwork^; 
Michael also said that by May 1, 
the floor plans,/pictures, and cur
rent room descriptions of many 
Shady Oak rooms will be available 
on the Internet and can be found on 
the Web site for CMU housing, so 
more students; will be able to 
decide for themselves if they want 
to take advantage of the new living 
option for thef 2000-2001 school 
year.
THERES AN ECHO OUT THERE! Great looks on the outside, great room on the inside. 
Cruise the highway at 40 MPG'...very thrifty, Power? Plenty! Its a 1.5 liter hi-tech 
16 valve DOCH engine with variable valve timing (new) that kicks out 1to horsepower 
any time you want it. And best of all, Echo is the lowest 20Ving Toyota!
University renews discussionon plus, minus grade system
GRADES, from page 1 
that the issue originally arose about 10 
years ago, when people in colleges within 
CMU had around five different grading sys
tems. It was confusing to students so we 
decided we needed to come up with a single 
grading system, said Lazarus. Faculty sen
ate, department heads, UEC, and Student 
senate all approved a new +/- system, but 
without obtaining any student input. The 
chair of Student Senate at the time vetoed 
the proposal stating that there had not been 
adequate discussion among students. There 
was a University-wide vote and the majori
ty of graduate students voted for the +/- 
system and the majority of undergraduates 
voted against the system.
Lazarus said the split caused the school 
to at least temporarily implement two grad
ing systems, which is what currently exists. 
Graduate students now receive, +/- grad
ing, while undergrads do not. Every year 
since then, the issue has come up. Faculty 
members have been wanting full conver
sion to the +/- scale, said Lazarus.
; There have been requests by several fac
ility to change the system. A finer scale 
jvould enable faculty to give students a bet
ter appraisal of their performance. Many 
faculty also feel that this would be a system 
that is fairer to students because, for exam
ple, an A- grade tends to be rounded down 
to a B rather than to A in the current sys
tem. said Nair in the draft proposal.
; Tne exact implementation of the scale is 
yet to be worked out, but the school has 
been looking at methods used by other uni
versities in its tier to gather information. In
the draft proposal by the UEC, Nair said 
that peer schools have some kind of +/- 
grading system. MIT uses +/- grading, bu 
it is only internal so it does not show up on 
transcripts. Princeton has a university-wide 
+/- system, but does not award the grad 
of A+. Stanford, Cornell, Northwestern, 
and Washington University also all have 
some sort of +/- system.
In addition to looking at other schools 
systems, Nair is trying to obtain student 
input on the issue. We brought it up in the 
UEC and asked Erin Fitzgerald to discuss it 
in Senate with her Education Committee'-., 
The idea is to begin a campus-wide discus
sion and then decide, said Nair. This tirrie, 
we would like the Student Senate to give its 
opinion before we present this to the 
Faculty Senate.
Fitzgerald, a sophomore electrical and 
computer engineering and music double 
major and the chair of the Academic Affairs 
committee in Student Senate, has been 
working to gather student input on the 
issue. She has discussed the issue with 116 
students so far. Out of those 116, 23 stu
dents were for the +/- system, 90 were 
against, and three were inconclusive.
I really appreciate the fact that the UEC 
came to Student Senate to get student feed
back at the very beginning of the process 
rather than waiting until more decisions 
had been made regarding the best course of 
action. Since receiving the proposal, I have 
gotten strong feedback not only from many 
of my fellow senators but also from stu
dents in a variety of majors and classes. I 
think its great that so many students have
taken the time to write their senators to 
voice their opinion on this issue, said 
Fitzgerald.
She said the Academic Affairs committee 
in Student Senate is still going through all 
of the opinions theyve collected and trying 
to analyze the results to find out what the 
biggest student concerns are. According to 
Fitzgerald, most opinions have been strong
ly against the change, but there are also stu
dents who have recognized possible bene
fits of the new system. She said both sides 
have brought up a number of^valid argu
ments.
Most students showed concerns that it 
would add additional stress and competi
tion, turning students against each other. 
Others were worried as to how it would 
affect curves and thought it was too subjec
tive. Those who supported the scale said it 
would be more accurate and give them a 
better idea of how they did in class.
I personally disagree with the idea of 
instantiating the +/- scale. This campus, 
from my point of view is extremely compet
itive already. Students are encouraged to 
use any time that could be spent on 
extracurricular activities for class work, 
said Tina Laffkas, a sophomore electrical 
and computer engineering major. As is the 
same at every school, everyone wants to get 
As; the 4.0 QPA. By instantiating the +/- 
scale, it will only make the 4.0 further out 
of reach. This will encourage students to 
either take more time from their extracur
ricular activities to concentrate on studies, 
or select only easy, less time-consuming 
classes to achieve that 4.0.
Elissa Lapide, a first-year student in the 
science and humanities scholars program 
disagreed saying the proposal may end up 
being beneficial to students. Although 
there are benefits to the system we have 
already because if you get what would oth
erwise be a B-, it shows up as a B. ,-T-he'"" 
opposite end of that is that if^otfget what 
would be a B+ or almost an A, it still looks 
like you just got a B, therefore I think the 
plus minus system would be good, said 
Lapide.
Fitzgerald presented the UEC draft pro
posal to Student Senate last Thursday. I 
was looking for not so much a discussion of 
+/- itself, but what [Student Senate] actu
ally wants to say to the UEC, said 
Fitzgerald. Some Senate members argued
 that the feedback from a +/- system may be 
helpful at mid-semester, but werent sure 
about its effectiveness at the end of the 
.grading period. We need to focus on edu
cation in general, not just on grades, said 
one Senate member. A vote at the meeting 
left one person for +/-, 14 against, and 
three abstentions.
Right now all proposals are simply rough 
drafts. We are just in the gathering infor
mation stage, the very beginning of the 
process^ said Lazarus. This is an issue that 
isnt going away so we are taking our time, 
looking at this judiciously, and then making | 
the best decision.
The +/- issue will now be discussed in 
the next UEC meeting, during which some 
kind of proposal will be prepared and writ
ten for consideration in an upcoming^ j 
Faculty Senate meeting.
The Shady Oak apartment building, located near Cathedral Mansions, was recently purchased by CMU Housing to be 
used for the 2000-2001 academic year.

---------------------------------------------------

Forum
24. April 2000 THE TARTAN Page 6Student government elections need major improvements
Last week the results of the Student 
Government Spring 2000 election votes 
were in, with Optimus Prime in second for 
Student Body President and Treasurer. The 
fact that a Transformer was able to garner 
more votes than living, breathing Activities 
Fee-paying students is a clear sign that stu
dents are losing interest in Student 
Government. In the future, the Senate elec
tions committee must do a better job of pub
licizing and running elections or students 
might completely forget that such a govern
ing body exists.
The reason only five percent of the stu
dent body came out to vote for the elections 
could be because students at Carnegie 
Mellon lack the motivation and interest to 
go and vote for those who they think is fit to 
represent the student body. The whole 
problem of low student interest cannot be 
attributed just to apathy, however. The rea
son for this years rock-bottom turnout is 
due to poor planning and lack of publicity 
of the elections.
One problem was students did not nec
essarily know where to go for elections. It 
was announced that the voting table 
would be set up in front of Doherty Hall. 
Later in the week the table moved to the 
UC and several students did not know that 
elections were still going on. The decision 
as to when to run the voting was also not 
conducive in getting good student 
turnout. Holding it the week of Carnival 
set up the elections for a low student 
turnout due to the commotion and excite
ment around campus.
An even larger problem was the lack of 
information about the elections and its can
didates. Students were not encouraged to 
run for various positions. If Student Senate
Two years ago, when the University 
Academic Calendar Committee tried to 
schedule Spring Break two weeks earlier 
than usual, they were met with severe criti
cism from students and eventually decided 
to change their decision due to negative stu
dent feedback. Apparently, those responsi
ble for determining the academic calendar 
did not learn their lesson. Their latest 
attempt at creating a schedule for the 
upcoming school year has proven equally 
unsuccessful. Problems include a conflict 
between Homecoming Weekend and 
midsemester break, poor placement of 
Spring Break, and a different schedule for 
final exams.
Some of these changes are designed to 
allow mini courses to fit better within the 
semester and to help make the schedules of 
the Heinz school and GSIA consistent with 
the rest of the University. While there is 
nothing wrong with these goals, the man
ner in which the calendar achieves them is 
unsatisfactory.
While administrators have correctly real
ized that an additional day is necessary for 
mid-semester break, the choice to have the 
fall break on the same weekend as 
Homecoming demonstrates poor interde
partmental communication. As a result, 
many students will miss the 100th anniver
sary celebrations of the University during 
Homecoming. The Calendar Committee
SETH MANDEL, Managing Editor 
SARA STILLE, News Editor 
CHRISTOPHER MAY, Forum Editor 
CHRISTOPHER CHUNG, Sports Editor 
JOANNA SMILEY, Arts & Living Editor 
SRIRAM GOLLAPALLI, Science & Technology Ed. 
BRAD GRANTZ, Business Editor 
GREG NOFI, Entertainment Editor 
JUSTIN SUISSA, Art Editor 
BRYAN KAPLAN, Photo Editor 
MICHAEL ZIMMER, Dossier Design Editor 
LAURA MARTIN, Dossier Co-Literary Editor 
JOSEPH TAGUE, Dossier Co-Literary Editor 
JENNIFER LIU, Advertising Manager 
BALAJI SARPESHKAR, Copy Manager 
BLAKE ENGEL, Personnel Manager 
LANCE BROWN, Co-Production Manager 
CHRIS MESSINA, Co-Production Manager 
KAI ZHENG, Systems Manager
had publicized the event beforehand, per
haps there would have been more than one 
real student running for student body pres
ident. Also, during these elections, many 
candidates did not have platforms posted in 
public locations. Though posts were made 
to the cmu.misc.market bboard and some 
were available at the voting table, in the 
past candidates have presented their plat
forms in various noticeable ways. It is no 
surprise that students took little care to vote 
for people who were little more than a 
name on the ballot.
Next year, the elections committee must 
advertise around campus well ahead of 
elections. Good methods of publicity 
include postering around campus and 
debates between candidates. Students 
should have easy access to candidate plat
forms. Senate needs to take a serious look 
at an electronic voting system, or at least 
develop a more refined voting system that 
provides more visibility for the elections, 
and that would increase the number of stu
dents that vote.
What is the point of student government 
when the members do not even closely rep
resent the student body itself? With few stu
dents voting for their elected officials, the 
whole purpose of the institution is put into 
question. Candidates such as Optimus 
Prime and Mr. T may as well be part of 
Student Senate, because at least the student 
body knows who these fellows are. Student 
Senate needs to continue working on 
informing,the student body of who they are 
and what they are doing. It cannot claim to 
represent all students on campus if only five 
percent vote in the elections. A better elec
tion process can only lead to a stronger stu
dent government.
and Alumni Affairs did not realize the con
flict until recently, and it is too late to 
change the schedule. Students usually 
choose to leave Pittsburgh over midsemes
ter weekend and this year the exodus will 
only be encouraged by the additional vaca
tion day.
Administrators have also unwisely cho
sen to keep Spring Break at its late location 
in the school year. As many students and 
faculty observed this year, having a late 
Spring Break results in a more hectic end of 
the semester, as all classes must rush to 
squeeze in exams and projects before the 
semester ends. To exacerbate the problem 
further, Spring Carnival will move further 
back in the Calendar next year to the last 
weekend in April. Squeezing these two 
breaks so close to the end of the semester 
will undoubtedly only intensify the stress of 
that time of the year. Furthermore, since 
many other universities have their spring 
breaks earlier than CMU, students are 
unable to visit friends from other schools.
Administrators must further investigate 
the views of both students and faculty and 
reevaluate their calendar decisions. 
Students opposed to these changes must 
organize themselves through town meet
ings and see to it that changes are made. 
Finally, Student Senate must step up and 
ensure that students views are heard by the 
administration both now and in the future.
ASHA PATHAK, Business Manager 
BETTY KIM, Darkroom Manager 
MATT BRUN, Special Projects Manager 
ASEEM GUPTA, Webmaster 
SHAINA MCGRATH, Photo Staff Manager 
LAINE TOWEY, Assistant News Editor 
SEAN MINTUS, Assistant Forum Editor 
ANDY FRANCIS, Asst. Arts & Living Editor 
BETH POWELL, Asst. Entertainment Editor 
GABRIEL SABOURIN, Asst. Art Editor 
LILY AHN, Asst. Advertising Manager 
SARA HENNEBERGER, Asst. Production Mgr.
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS 
Kristine Andreassen, Kevin Babbitt, Elaine Boland, 
Anthony Chao, Behnam Farahpour, Bradley Fearn, 
Rebecca Fribush, Derek Greentree, Cassandra 
Knight, Lorelei Laird, Lisette Miller-Dixon, Jonathan 
Pearce, Anne Ray, Brian Smith, Nathan Steinwald
Science clouds abortion
Editor:
I believe that Thaddeus Billman was in 
error when he stated that it is a scientific 
reality that a unique human life begins 
when the two gametes join together. We 
have known for several decades that two 
unique individuals can be formed after the 
sperm and egg have joined to form the sin
gle-celled zygote and this zygote has divid
ed multiple times to form the early 
embryo. Such a division of one embryo 
into two embryos is the event that pro
duces identical twins.
Likewise, as an experimental tool, 
researchers have produced one individual 
mouse from two separate early embryos. 
Single individuals have even been pro
duced by combining embryonic cells from 
two different species of birds.
Christopher May
On the Greenpeace page under geneti
cally engineered foods one can find a 
viciously grinning Tony the Tiger outfitted 
like Frankensteins monster offering: 
Genetically Modified Frosted Fakes of 
corn which are, untested and unla
beled according to the picture. One has to 
wonder how people could 
oppose science so fanatically 
in an industrial nation, with
out bothering to look into 
the facts of the issue they 
oppose.
The fact that these foods 
are fit for human consump
tion is obvious. Corn has 
been selectively bred for mil
lennia to become the high 
yield grain that it is today.
These genetic selections 
have never been taken as 
harmful. The problem with 
current genetically modified 
food that raises peoples 
hackles is that humans 
deliberately insert genes 
which provide things like 
insect and fungal resistance 
in the plants. Its not clear 
whether protesters are 
afraid that these genes will 
somehow insert themselves 
into humans, which is 
absurd  corn cannot insert 
its genes into humans  
viruses can.
There are some real con
cerns regarding allergic 
reactions of people to genet
ically modified foods. The 
FDA has responded to this 
by saying One scientific 
issue related to the transfer 
of genetic material between 
organisms that deserves 
particular attention is the 
possibility that proteins that 
have been introduced into a 
new food could cause allergenic reactions 
in sensitive individuals. We believe that 
the sources of genetic material that are 
most likely to present this issue are those 
foods to which humans are commonly 
allergic, such as milk, eggs, wheat, fish, 
tree nuts, and legumes. In such cases, the 
developer should demonstrate scientifiThese quail-chick chimeras are fully 
integrated individuals, even exhibiting 
behavioral traits from both species. Finally, 
I have to reject the entire notion that sci
ence is relevant to debates such as abor
tion. Science describes every living entity 
as a blob of cytoplasm, to use Billman's 
term. The abortion issue is a moral and 
political one. In the interest of not confus
ing this issue, and also not distorting sci
ence, science should be left out of the 
debate.
Billman used this appeal to science in 
order to support his thesis that abortion 
should be illegal for all of the same reasons 
that murder is illegal. However, there is a 
very good amoral reason to outlaw murder 
that does not apply to abortion. In essence, 
I can only live according to my beliefs if 
other persons respect my rights. I can con
vince them to respect my rights by agree
ing to respect their rights on the condition
cally that the allergenic substance is not 
present in the new food. Otherwise, the 
FDA will require labeling to alert sensitive 
consumers.
Both the FDA and the National Research 
Council, an arm of the National Academy 
of Science, have found that these foods 
pose little threat. Recently, however, the 
National Research council urged more reg
ulation and testing. Certainly regulation 
and testing of a new technology is worth
while, but I have never seen one report 
that weighs the advantages and disadvantages of using genetically engineered food.
For instance, what about pesticides? 
These evil chemicals have been draining 
into our groundwater and streams, and 
killing all sorts of animals from salmon to 
men. Rachel Carson classified these chem
icals biocides because they have been 
shown over and over again to sicken and
that they respect my rights. I can further 
protect my rights by incapacitating those 
persons who I can't trust to respect my 
rights (i.e. convicted criminals).
Therefore, I have a strong interest in pro
tecting the rights of those individuals who 
will aid me in protecting my rights. This is 
expressed as support for laws against such 
acts as murder and theft. A fetus is neither 
capable of infringing on my rights nor pro
tecting my rights, so this argument does 
not apply to a fetus.
So, until someone can produce a similar
ly amoral argument against allowing abor
tion, which every rational person can agree 
with, I will continue to consider anti-abortion legislation as an attempt of one faction 
to impose its morality upon the rest of us.
Adam Rechless
Senior
Biology
kill everything they come into contact 
with. A 1997 report showed that of the 26 
most widely used pesticides, 12 have been 
shown to be carcinogens. These twelve are 
applied in the US in amounts exceeding 
380 million pounds per year.
In fact, in 1993, 143,500 children per 
year were shown to consume a level of pes
ticides which were greater than the EPAs 
acceptable level. The use of some herbi
cides and pesticides on farms was shown 
to cause birth defects and low birth 
weight.
If the current chemicals 
can be shown to be very 
harmful to man and nature-, 
then why are people work
ing hard to shut down a new 
system which, though 
flawed, is far less so than 
the present one?
For instance, the two 
major objections to geneti
cally engineering plants, 
other than technophobic 
hysteria, are that these 
changes may harm
Monarch butterflies, and 
that cultivated plants breed
ing with wild plants may 
create a super weed. While 
these concerns must be 
addressed by the scientific 
community, calling for bans 
of genetically engineered 
foods, as have Europe and 
Asia, is overkill.
Some are calling for labels 
on genetically engineered 
foods. While we should not 
want to feed into-the fear, 
people should be allowed a 
choice. If the people who 
support labels pass it they 
must also educate people on 
exactly what genetically 
engineered foods are about, 
so that they will not merely 
have conceptions like the 
one that Greenpeace fos
ters.
Farmers have planted 
less genetically engineered 
crops this year in response 
to lowered international demand. This 
means the benefits of these foods are 
being lost to ignorance. You decide: poi
soned streams or potential weeds.
Christopher May still likes macaroons 
even if the coconuts are genetically engi
neered.
Universitys calendar offers poor placement of vacations
THE TARTAN I
Carntgie Mlions Student Newspaper Since igo6 
EDITORIAL BOARD
ISH HARSHAWAT, Editor-in-Chief
Genetically modified food shows ignorance

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  APRIL 24, 2000
Bring back Cookie Cop
Tofu Inhibits Sex
by Justin Suissa
This week I have decided to 
forego my weekly in-depth news 
analysis to bring to light a very dis
tressing situation in the world of 
childrens cereals.
After making a trip to Giant 
Eagle, (I have yet to find another 
supermarket within 100 miles of 
Pittsburgh) I decided to eat some 
Cookie Crisp. After enjoying some 
of the cereal which now claims to 
have our best chocolate chip cook
ie taste ever! I realized that some
thing was conspicuously absent 
from the box.
Thats right, they have replaced 
the cool cop and robber with some 
dog named Chip who looks like hes 
on acid. This is extremely distress
ing.
Look, I know what youre think
ing, dogs cant do acid  yes they 
can  tell me of any drug free dog 
whose ears stretch 6 inches back
ward.
General Mills has gone out of the 
way to confuse children who look at 
the Cookie Crisp box. For instance, 
on the back of the package they 
have Chip the dog outside his 
house.
Now everyone knows dogs cant 
own two story suburban house, but 
apparently Chip does.
While . the ' American Heart 
Association may endorse Cookie 
Crisp, the Justin Suissa Got To Lose 
Some of that Beer Belly Foundation 
doesnt. Cookie Crisp has 120 calo
ries per serving  with 11 servings 
in a box  and with my sweeping 
hand motions able to extract 1.5 
serving per swoop, this stuff is just 
plain bad for you.
In addition to the fact that its got 
good stuff in it like thiamin monon
itrate and pyridoxine hydrochlo
ride, it also has some very strange 
ingredients in it, like corn meal, 
sugar, and salt! Who would feed 
their children something with a
name I can barely even pronounce, 
like salt?
However, its time to go back to 
addressing the main problem here, 
the disappearance of the loveable 
cop and robber.
Before I pass judgement on this 
extremely stupid looking and quite 
generic dog character I decided to 
do some research.
I found that General Mills has 
gone to great lengths to erase the 
existence of these characters from 
years past. I tried everything from 
all the major search engines 
to typing in URLs like 
http://www.whatthehellhappenedotothecopandrobberfromthecookiecrispbox.com.
While it might seem that all is 
lost, there is still hope for these two 
loveable characters. All you have to 
do is email General Mills at 
BigG@mail.genmills.com and tell 
them that you want to see the cop 
and robber guy return to the Cookie 
Crisp box. You can also call them at 
1-800-328-1144 and tell them in 
person.
While I have tried these routes of 
protest with little success and usu
ally receiving a standard public 
relations response along the lines of 
Kids have responded very well to 
Chip the dog, you should still try. I 
also decided to put General Mills 
unconditional guarantee to the 
test and explain to them the real 
reason I was dissatisfied with 
Cookie Crisp cereal.
Needless to say, none of these 
conversations lasted longer then 30 
seconds, except when I put the 
woman on hold to reexamine the 
box. So I say support Rice Krispies 
because they still have Snap, 
Crackle, and Pop on the box 
and it has good stuff in it like folic 
acid.
Justin Suissa is a sophomore com
munication design major. He wel
comes all responsible replies to his 
column.
Renos raid leaves Elian shaken
LaRita Hamilton
Since Thanksgiving, Elian 
Gonzalez, the refugee from Cuba, 
has been in the news. Elians moth
er died on the way to Cuba, leaving 
Elian an orphan in this country, so it 
seemed that he would stay here in 
America and try to live a normal life. 
However, Elians father, who was 
still in Cuba, 
wanted to
the rest of the family, agreed that 
Elian should see his family, but it 
was to be done with as little trauma 
as possible. Forcefully removing him 
while negotiations where in session 
was not a wise decision on Attorney 
General Renos part.
If she was so concerned with 
Elians welfare, she would not have 
resorted to force at all. Reno has 
had the power to take decisive 
action since January 15 of this year. 
Her feeling that force was the only 
way is a result of her reluctance to
returned to Cuba, period. However, 
when asked about how the transfer 
of custody should be handled, she 
skated around the issue and then 
added the fact that she could use 
force if necessary. It seems that she 
was planning to use force all along 
and was hesitating to do so.
The forceful removal of the child, 
if force was to be used at all, should 
have occurred as early as possible. 
January 16, a day after Reno had 
the power to take action, would 
have been the ideal day. Four 
 months into theIn fact, Attorney General Reno, its per-assume jcus- J ^ Ltody. This led fectly normal to be roused from your
sleep at dawn and escorted onto a plane 
by complete and total strangers  with 
guns.
to a custody 
battle between 
the boys rela
tives in Miami,
Florida, and his 
father in Cuba.
In the;/ past-------------------------------------
few weeks, the childs father, Juan 
Gonzalez, came to the United States 
in order to be with his son while the 
courts decided the childs fate. 
Attorney General Janet Reno has 
had the power to return the boy to 
Cuba since January 15, but failed to 
take a firm stance until the morning 
of April 22.
Reno ordered the boy to be 
removed by force from his greatuncles home in a pre-dawn raid 
Saturday. Politics aside, the most 
important person in this conflict is 
Elian. Being ripped from his sleep in 
the early hours of the morning by 
government agents with guns can
not have been very healthy for the 
child. After literally being snatched 
from his relatives house, Elian was 
put on an airplane and taken to 
Andrews Air Force Base, where his 
father was staying.
Lazaro Gonzalez, who has had 
custody of the child since he got to 
the United States, had repeatedly 
stated that Elian had a great fear of 
being taken back to Cuba. He, and
take control over the situation.
Negotiations for a voluntary 
transfer should have begun long 
ago. Reno has been dragging her 
feet since the conflict began. The 
Gonzalez family has willfully gone 
into the negotiations, believing that 
the boy should have been able to see 
his father.
There were pictures of Elian on 
every major network station and he 
does not look very happy. A cousin 
who had helped care for Elian 
reported that when the agents broke 
into the house to get the child she 
was asked, Wheres the boy? 
Wheres the fucking boy?
No, thats not traumatic. In fact, 
Attorney General Reno, its perfectly 
normal to be roused from your sleep 
at dawn and escorted onto a plane 
by complete and total strangers  
with guns. Reno has constantly 
insisted that its the boys welfare 
that shes concerned about. In 
many televised interviews, she has 
made her stance clear that she 
believes that the boy should be
situation was not 
the appropriate 
time. Treating 
Elians stay at his 
uncles house as a 
hostage situation 
was ridiculous. 
White House cor
respondants deny
--------------------------------t;liat there was
excessive force when Elian was 
removed, but then insisting that 
there was only one automatic 
weapon is a weak defense. New 
clips show agents running out of the 
house clutching the boy, who is hap
hazardly wrapped in a blanket.
President Clinton and the White 
House secretary seem to be quite 
pleased with the results of the early 
morning raid. I dont care about 
politics, I dont know how I feel 
about whether Elian should be 
forced to go back to Cuba or not. I 
do know that the continuation of 
the negotiations would have proven 
to be fruitful.
Elian is a child, but it seems that 
this entire situation has turned into 
a game of capture the flag between 
Cuba and the United States. This 
isnt a game  a childs welfare is at 
stake.
LaRita Y. Hamilton is a sophomore 
creative writing major. She wel
comes all responsible replies to her 
commentary.
Frappuccino sippers and Neanderthals bash beloved 'Burgh
Sean Mintus
So while walking to class the other day, I 
overheard (eavesdropped on) a conversation 
about Pittsburgh. Well, it wasnt so much of a 
conversation as a verbal bashing. I descried 
statements like God, this city sucks, and ten 
minutes after I get my diploma, I am getting 
out of here! Now, this is not the first time 
that I have listened to someone berate my 
beloved Burgh. And after listening to this 
crap for about eight months, I think that it is 
now my duty, as a native and resident, to 
defend this city of cities.
How, you ask? Well, I could write all about 
the beauty, history, and culture present here 
in Pittsburgh. I could calmly and rationally 
discuss the various reasons why this city 
should be thought of as a nice place to live. 
But we all know thats not going to happen. 
After all, the only part that you ignorant out
siders who talk smack on Pittsburgh got right 
was the fact that its inhabited by a bunch of 
angry, vengeful, beer-swilling belligerents 
who love their town more than their internal 
organs, and gladly let everyone know it in the 
most proper and discrete of ways (Usually by
lifting only one finger and speaking in spirit
ed, concise statements consisting primarily of 
four-lettered words.)
But seriously, what right does anyone have 
to come to a town in order to receive an edu
cation; something that will provide them with 
the opportunity to live a long, healthy, fruitful 
life, and then use their spare time (that which 
isnt spent in a cluster), to belittle that town?
As far as I can tell, there are two main 
groups of people who are responsible for this 
ongoing atrocity. The first are those who 
come from cities like New York and Los 
Angeles, and are amazed, upon arrival to dis
cover that (brace yourselves) this city isnt as 
exciting as one that is five times bigger.
The second group comes from Ohio, a state 
that for about 200 years now has tried its best 
to foster some sort of rivalry with its neighbor 
to the east in order to formulate the misguid
ed notion that we are even remotely equal. 
This, of course, is an absurd sentiment.
The former I will leave be. We here in the 
steel city like to call these people yuppie 
morons, and in response to their comments, 
take solace in the fact that they are often too 
busy drinking cappuccinos, listening to bad 
music, and writing worse poetry to say any
thing bad about our town. After all, their 
heads are most likely too smog-ridden to rec
ognize anything I would say as an insult, and
Id rather not waste time, effort, or words on a 
section of the country that will sink into the 
Pacific after one or two more quakes. Pius, 
John Rocker already de&ltrwith New York, and 
we all know how well that was received, so its 
time to move on.
So lets talk about Ohio, shall we? Honestly, 
Iy almost feel bad about laying down a good 
tongue lashing on a state whose population, 
until recently, wouldnt have been able to read 
what I wrote. But once again, since I am such 
a feeble-witted, moronic, doltish Yinzer, I 
guess I dont know any better.
Ohio seems to be divided into two parts: 
south and north, which I refer to as bad and 
worse. The southern half I think Ill leave 
alone. After all, Cincinnati is located there, 
and thats embarrassment enough. The 
northern half, more specifically Cleveland, 
however, is about to become my bitch.
Cleveland, or as its more commonly 
known, The Mistake on the Lake, has served 
as the armpit of this great nation for quite 
some time. Founded in 1944 by seven drunk 
guys who got thrown out of Illinois, and two 
very lost Canadians, Cleveland made early 
strides toward becoming a cultural, industri
al, and commercial center by developing into 
a world-renowned landfill, second only to 
New Jersey and France.
Later improvements included two stoplights
and a football team named after the color of 
the citys tap water. What really made the 
town, though, was the Rock and Roll Hall of 
Fame. This, of course, was placed there out of 
sheer pity, and fooled residents into thinking 
they were important simply because their city 
now held Jimi Hendrixs lunchbox and Elviss 
leftover narcotics.
Thus, today stands a model of modern civi
lization: Cleveland. Yes, with its dwindling 
population, champion sports teams, and a 
night life comparable to that of Paducah, 
Kentucky, Pittsburghs rival shows us what a 
city should strive to be.
Ok, after all of that, I think Ill make an actu
al point. And that point is that there are a 
awful lot of people out there who have noth
ing better to do with their time than insult my 
city, and they need to shut up. I am sure that 
every single Pittsburgh native will back me up 
in saying that if you dont like our city, then 
get the hell out. After all, thats just more beer 
for us.
Sean Mintus is a first-year professional and 
creative writing major. Yes, this column was an 
excuse to make fun of Cleveland. Any residents 
of that aforementioned excuse for a city are 
more than welcome to respond to this column in 
their customary system of indecipherable grunts 
and high-pitched whines.
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Sincc 1 go6
SENIOR STAFF
Emily Landes, Rim Svarcas
STAFFWRITE RS 
Megan Adriance, Neil Babra, Thaddeus 
Billman, Grant Catton, Cliff Chien, Krissy 
Choi, Rob Cullen, Donny Debarr, 
Elizabeth Dodson, Derek Dreyer, Frank J. 
Fleming, Colt Foutz, Heather Frantz, 
William-Neil Guzy, LaRita Hamilton, 
Rosie Jones, Rachel Kingery, Cynthia Kos, 
Eunice Liew, Katie Kowall, Matthew 
Lanken, Erin Lucas, Peter Patterson, 
Jennifer Petrini, Srinivas Pullela, 
Anwesha Rakshit, Jennifer Resick, Gail 
Ronen, Lynn Tao, Guido Zarrella
Matthew Blum, Jamie Divine, Adam 
Grossi, Reagan Heller, Alissa Taylor
COMICS
Martin Hock, Joe Hocking, James 
Kenney, Tom Lin, Chris Rugen
PHOTO
Katie Aerni, Anthony DAuria, Emily 
Gensheimer, Matthew Lanken, Nuri 
Miller, Michael Raisman, Matthew 
Trentacoste, Peter Wang
DARKROOM 
Stephanie Chow, Cam Crews, Ko Nakatsu, 
Amy Solana, Peter Wang, Laura Wetzel
PRODUCTION 
Gopi Flaherty, Serena Lam
COPY
Stacey Becker, Joyce Boss, Christopher 
Domfeld, Claire Jauregui, Lisa Ferrugia, 
Larissa Kasian, Kristin Lala, Matthew 
McHenry, Emma Rehm, Julie Watt
JUNIOR STAFF 
Abhyudaya Agrawal, David Anderson, 
Nicholas Bonaddio, Joseph Carrier, 
Michael Castellana, Michael Cook, Dave 
del Rosario, Shion Deysarkar, Jay 
Huang, Bill Jerome, Douglas Jones Jr, 
Tim Lo, Bhumika Muchhala, Andre 
Niederberger, Damian Olesnycky, Vijay 
Palaparty, Jodi Poniewaz, Karthik 
Ramachandran, Christian Reed, Adam 
Retchless, Domenic Senger-Schenck, 
Marissa Staller, Adam Steele, Sabrina 
Small, Huiya Xu, Sheila Wang
The Tartan is the student newspaper of 
Carnegie Mellon University. It is a weekly 
newspaper published by students during 
the fall and spring semesters, at no cost 
to members of the University comrnunity. 
It is printed by Western Pennsylvania 
printing, Inc. Subscriptions are available 
for the semester or academic year. The 
editorials appearing at the beginning of 
the opinion section are the official opin
ion of The Tartan editorial board. Columns 
and political cartoons are the opinions of 
individual creators. The Tartan reserves 
the right to reject or condense any column 
or political cartoon. Letters to the Editor 
are opinions of authors who are usually, 
but not necessarily, members of the 
University community. A letter intended 
for publication must be signed and 
include the writers address and phone 
number for verification. Names nay be 
withheld upon request. The 'Tartan 
requests that letters be no longor than 
350 words. The Tartan reserves the right 
to condense or reject any letter. Letters to 
the Editor must be submitted by 5 pm the 
Thursday before publication. Copyright  
2000 by The Tartan. The Tartan editorial 
board reserves the right to withhold from 
publication any copy it deems unfit for 
publication. Office: University Center 
Room 314. Phone: 412/268-2111. 
Mailing address: The Tartan/Box
17/Carnegie Mellon University/Pittsburgh, 
PA 15213-3890.
Email: tartan@andrew.cmu.edu 
Funded in part by your Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress 
ISSN#:0890-3107. The 
Tartan is a member of the 
Associated Press.P
With film festivals galore inundating us this week we decided to let the CMU 
campus get creative with film titles. So we asked the question:
What would you call a film you made about yourself?
A PERSONS OPINION
Compiled by Christopher May 
Photos by Behnam Farahpour
Brent Buck
Sophomore
Architecture
The Story of brent Buck
Kara Cornell
Sophomore
Voice
The Girl Who Will Never Make a Penny 
Singing
Stephen Mick
First-year student 
Mechanical Engineering
Me, Myself and I.
Stephanie Gaultney
Senior
Drama and HCI; Masters in Entertainment 
Technology
Fine Line
Dont Go There

---------------------------------------------------

HousingMovieChannel16
immmmimWM
I ^ pt * ===? ?spilli!
Stutell 1 LlJL jfc ? 5 s t 5>:2-^S mg? i>Uiiii
^SSl5L9hSlS&s]&jiltVU
Year in and year out, employees at education and 
research institutions have turned to TIAA-CREF. And for 
good reasons:
 Easy diversification among a range of expertly 
managed funds
 Solid performance and exceptional personal service
 Strong commitment to low expenses
 Plus, a full range of flexible retirement income options
With an excellent record of accomplishment for more 
than 80 years,TIAA-CREF has helped professors and staff 
at over 9,000 campuses across the country invest for 
and enjoysuccessful retirements.
Choosing your retirement plan provider is simple. Go 
with the leader:TIAA-CREF.
deCREF
 According to DAIBAR. Inc, a financial services research firm. In lu moil recent study. 1997Defined Contribution Excellence fltfti/jgs.TIAA-CREF was voted number one In partici
pant satisfaction. TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Servkes. Inc distributes CREF certificates and interests In the TIAA Real Estate Account Teachers Personal Investors 
Services, Inc. distributes the variable component of the personal annuities, mutual funds and tuition savings agreements.TIAA and TIAA-CREF Life Insurance Co. issue insurance 
and annuities. TIAA-CREF Trust Company. FS8 provides trust services. Investimi* products ara not FDtC insured, mar ka value and are not bank guaiantMd. 
For more complete Information on our securities products. Including charges and expenses, call 1800 842-2776, ext5509, for the prospectuses. Read them carefully before you Invest or send money. C 2000 TIAA-CREF l AX).
Ensuring the future 
for those who shape it.
THE TIAA-CREF ADVANTAGE
Proven Performance
Low Expenses
Highly Rated
Quality Service
Trusted Name
Come hear what successful entrepreneurs, leading investors and lawyers have to say about kicking off a startup.
Set their answers and opinions on your specific questions.
Network with them and other entrepreneurial-minded attendees, one-on-one, over quality hors d'oeuvres and drinks!
DirfiREftTMTIDG
CTAflDMG OUT lit A CROUID
Date: April 26,2000 
Time: 5 - 7 pm
Location: Singleton Room, Roberts Hall
This panel will bring forth the intricacies in developing a sound marketin plan for 
a technology startup. It will discuss marketing and sales issues, including pricing, 
promotion and distribution channels, that are involved in bringing a product to 
market. It will also create an understanding of the competitive marketplace and 
how,a startup can differentiate its product or service.
Panelists: George McKee, Medtrex Inc.
Bob Barker, Laminar Software Inc.
Gerald Iwanejko, Cohen & Grigsby
Moderator: Mary Murrin Smith, Storm Systems
Agenda: Panelists discussion (60 mins)
Q&A session (30 mins)
Networking reception (30 mins)
Spanaaved ...
The Startup Law Group at Cohen & Grigsby
Free admission for CMU students, staff, faculty and alumni. $3 admission charge per panel for others 
For more information contact esite@andrew.cmu.edu or check ouf http://www.andrew.cmu.edu/~esite
Couurtma
In 1918, Albert Einstein said his 
equations of general relativity pos
sess solutions for describing 
wavelike undulations of the gravi
tational field. These gravitational 
waves are actually ripples in the 
fabric of space and time that travel 
to Earth, bringing with them infor
mation about their violent origins 
and about the nature of gravity.. 
Now, for the first time, experi
ments using new detectors with 
enough sensitivity to detect gravi
tational waves .are poised to test 
Einstein's long-standing predic
tions. With such detectors, scien
tists promise to open an entirely 
new window on the universe, 
where we can "listen" for the 
sounds of gravitational waves 
from distant cosmos.
Atcampus. Hus 4 
@ 4:30 oDiD 
HhCCer wrmflfcfh 
ncplfealci ,hderp gCeea 
4400 glvft nyhrch
Atctampus .uHHuoD
> 5:30 oDiD
iAhh Csu erhw
PUBLIC
Forum pagge pag6Sts
Internationally regarded as a 
leader in the field of. elementary 
particle physics, Barry Barish is 
the Maxine and Ronald Unde Pro
fessor of Physics at the California 
Institute of Technology and the di- : 
rector of the Laser Interferometer 
Gravitational-Wave Observatory . 
(UGO). AtUGO, he has led a team 
of scientists and engineers from 
Caltech and MIT ip the construc
tion of two large facilities thatwill 
be used in coincidence for the de
tection and study of gravitational 
waives from astrophysicalsources.
This lecture is funded under the auspices of the Buhl Professorship in Theoretical Physics, which was established at Carnegie 
Mellon in 1961 by The Buhl Foundation in support of an outstanding theoretical scientist who would both impact theoretical 
research and help establish directions for experimental investigations.
E$JTE
Technology Entrepreneurship
Pi&ientci...
Startup Panel Serie/Why is TIAA-CREF the 
#1 choice nationwide?
The TIAA-CREF
Advantage.
The newest addition to 
Campus CableTV -
Movies, dates and times are available on 
CableTV Channel 3 and 
the Telecom web page - 
www.telecom.cc.cmu.edu/CableTV
another service of: in cooperation with:
Student Dormitory Council The Office of Student Life Carnegie Mellon TelecomCarnegie Mellon 
HOUSINu SERVICES
Featured movies for May
Apollo 13 
Three Kings 
Mumford 
Breakfast at Tiffanys 
Jerry Maguire 
The Fugitive 
Fast Times at Ridgemont High 
Willow 
In & Out 
The Graduate 
The Blues Brothers 
Army of Darkness 
The Crow 
Clerks
C

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  APRIL 24. 20009
Modern Major League ballparks balance charm and gimmicks
BASEBALL, from page 12
ness and charm of the Fenways and
Wrigleys were in.
The problem is, how do you create 
charm? Retractable roofs are an 
interesting feature that lends (a lit
tle) uniqueness'to a park, but its not 
the same as a 37-foot high wall with 
a manually-operated scoreboard 
only 310 feet from home plate. 
Removing the perfect symmetry of 
the massive domes is tricky, too. 
Fenway wasnt designed to have 
crazy angles along the outfield 
walls; it just needed it to fit between 
the streets around Kenmore Square.
The point is, theres a fine line 
between charm and cheap gim
micks that are obvious imitations. 
The flagpole in fair territory in 
Comerica Park is charming; the 
swimming pool behind the center 
field wall in Arizonas Bank One 
Ballpark is not. That horrid aberra
tion aside, though, I think the 
designers of these new parks have 
done sensational jobs creating 
unique venues that each citys fans 
can call their own.
I also like that just about all of the 
new stadiums are either open or 
have retractable roofs and real grass. 
Artificial turf is one of the worst 
inventions of all time, and the soon
er it gets phased out of every stadi
um around the world, the better. 
Chalk up a big positive for charm.
That leaves history as the decid
ing factor in whether or not these 
new parks are worth the money and 
effort. Im not going to handicap this 
category for you, though. History is 
too subjective a topic for me to pass 
judgment on, so Ill leave it up to the 
visitors of these new parks to decide 
how much they miss the history of 
the old ones. That being said, Id still 
like to share my own views on the 
subject without giving a positive or 
negative grade.
As the oldest professional league 
still in existence in America, Major
League Baseball also has the richest 
history from which to draw. Yes, the 
game has changed immensely since 
Babe Ruth last donned a glove, but 
the past remains just as important 
as the present. Fenway remains 
basically the same for Pedro 
Martinez today as it was when Ruth 
played there in the 20s (for both the 
Red Sox and the Yankees) and when 
Ted Williams played there in the 
30s. History like that should be 
saved, but we have to remember 
that nothing lasts forever.
The last bastions of true history, 
Fenway and Wrigley Field (built in 
1912 and 1914, respectively), 
should be kept as long as possible, 
but in todays market, the clamor for 
replacements will come eventually. 
That clamor is already surfacing in 
Boston, where fans are gradually 
beginning to stay away and talks 
have commenced for a New 
Fenway to be built in the not-sodistant future.
In Chicago, those talks are thank
fully still far off, since fans continue 
to fill Wrigley despite the Cubs 
same level of ineptness as the Red 
Sox at bringing home a champi
onship.
On the other hand, there are some 
pieces of history that we could do 
without. Disco Demolition Night 
at Old Comiskey Park in Chicago 
and 10 Cent Beer Night at 
Municipal Stadium are prime exam
ples of the kind of memories most 
fans are more than happy to forget 
when they go to a game.
On the whole, the success of the 
new parks is dependent on the cities 
in which theyre built, and has to be 
judged on a case-by-case basis. 
These parks have worked so far, but 
lets not push our luck.
Matt Brun is a sophomore ECE 
major. All thoughtful responses to his 
views can be directed to 
mbrun + @andrew.

---------------------------------------------------

GETTING SMARTER ALL THE TIME.
12A&Li6Lvvg6Li
EUCHRE TOURNAMENT AT
JEKYl & HYDE
bkbSq Nb-'b,-nq 'w!FA MUHww cash rnmm
$n33 g@S -bAnw3,:
499-0777
,@kAF,w-b 
/~4 ,4kAF /MAF ,ASbbA
1  > H S'
|: ; J-fT 
IH'kes
'fMJK SUBI EM1 ; V vT \ *
1 FW'.mk
 ( P
1m f ||f
iSL* W% ra
Wan! to rake your academic performance ro a new high? Get the study resources you need at 
WebCT.com. the e-learning hub. Whether you're looking for study aids and research materials, or 
want to discuss your favorite academic subiect with students and faculty around the world.
WebCT.com is the place to make it happen. It's your ?-------------------------------------------------------
education. Take control. Visit www.webct com/grab.
1 bedroom, furnished (from $560), unfurnished (heat and water included)
lucky winners will be awarded this incredible stipend. Visit 
the Internship Area at thepavement.com to register. Get inside 
tips from former interns, comparisons between internship 
programs at big and small companies, advice on financing 
unpaid internships and more. For details hit thepavement.com 
now, and make a run for the money.
thepawBment.com
jobs money apartments hit the world running
The future of our industry will he determined by what happens this year. Deregulation has 
arrived, and it is changing all the rules. This is an exciting new resolution. Become part of 
Washington, DC's leading energy provider as we take on new challenges and explore new areas 
lo redefine the way people interact wilh power. Join Pepco at the front lines of innovation.
to20VingVSas 
chuVlVSV2dVi0s 
e2aygoVi0s
You Bike to watch?
214 North Craig Street 
Furnished Efficiency Apts.
- Renovated - Air Conditioning
- Wall to Wall Carpeting - Secure Building
- Heat and Water Included - $485 and up
Mature/Graduate Students Days: 682-1194
Parking Available Evenings: 731-0450
Betty's Summer Vacationby Christopher Durang
rVoynSyr la fgdi2d vVnbi
noalC 04 > Hus 0/ @5ShlCCs Athufha. -eErfeEr
Voted one of the Top 10 Plays of 1999 by The New York Times and USA Today, the newest 
adult comedy from the provocative Christopher Durang is a biting satire of America's 
fascination with the mass media entertainment culture.
?Epck .UAC?mm wMfc ,w?pcEw, TDRN
* Available in advance for Sun. thru Thurs. evenings and matinees.
One hour before performance for Fri. and Sat. evenings. Valid ID required.
Contains adult content, language and subject matter. 
Not recommended for audiences under the age of 17.
For tickets call 412-316-1600
WWW.ppt. Org Jhe OReilly is a theater of The Pittsburgh Cultural Trust.
health Sffitness 
fair2000
connecting the
mind
body
and
spirit
ma
Funded in pan by Student Affairs.
SDC, and your Student Activities Fee
DUQ 90.5 FM
Job Fair
Saturday, April 29, 2000 
9 am - 3 pm 
located at:
Potomac Electric Power Company 
Employment Services Office 
1900 Pennsylvania Ave., N.W.
Washington, DC 20068
EnlTy-level through Senior-level positions available.
Jlitlstmrgl) posKSascttc
IT Opportunities:
 Systems Programmer
 Systems Analyst
 Project Analyst
 Technical Aide
Engineering Opportunities:
 Engineer
 Distribution Engineer Project Engineer
 Associate Engineer
 Technical Assistant
 Engineering Analyst
pepco
Wo'ro connccted to you by more than power linos.'
(3Visit us on the Web at
www.pepco.com
Pepco is located near the following 
Vlelro stops:
Farragui West  Farmgul North 
Foggy BoUoni
If yoifrc unable to attend, please view 
our opportunities or apply online al 
www.pepco.com. For more information, 
please call 202-072-2101.
Pepco is an Equal Opportunily/ 
Affirmative Action Employer.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  APRIL 24. 2000il
NBA draft features usual suspects
DRAFT, from page 12
If I were to leave CMU and work 
full-time after this year, the school 
would have no problem taking me 
back were I to change my mind, 
provided I was qualified. I dont 
think more should be expected of 
athletes.
Several provisions would have to 
be made in order to maintain the 
integrity of both the collegiate and
professional games. If a player 
were to opt to return to school, the 
team that drafted him should retain 
his rights until he actually enters 
the league. This would be to make 
sure players dont return to school 
just because they got sentenced to a 
career with the Clippers.
Also, once the player has partici
pated in an NBA regular season 
game, his remaining eligibility
Gabriel Sabourin/Assistant Art Editor
would be forfeited. Were this policy 
to be put into place, I believe many 
young athletes would be given a 
second chance at success to which 
they currently have no access.
Its hard to see how anyone would 
want to deprive them of that.
Pete Patterson is a junior SDS 
major. All thoughtful responses to his 
column are appreciated.
 Two Summer Sessions 
 French Immersion Program 
# Desktop Publishing and Web 
Design Programs 
 Cultural Excursions
The- American University of Paris 
6 rue du Colonel Combes 
75007 Paris, France 
Tel. (33/1)40 62 07 20 
Fax (33/1) 47 05 34 32 
New York office: Tel. (212) 983-1414
Website http://www.aup.edu Email summer@aup.edu
TOP TEN MOST BOGUS 
THINGS ON EARTH
10. The Donut Diet.
9. Cars that can talk.
8. Do Not Remove Under 
Penalty Of Law tags 
on mattresses.
7. Pop qu'K on Monday 
following major weekend.
6. l-900-DEBBY.
5. Lawn flamingos.
4. Imitation cheese.
3. Referee in Professional 
wrestling.
2. Did we mention the 
pop quiz?
I. Drugs.
PARTNERSHIP FORA DRUG-FREE AMERICA
m2nOSyr 2d BO0Pgi OS 
x-.R C2olyi jydgy
BO:: UHD [xx
HEADACHES?
Could be caused by pressure exerted by the Third Molars or WISDOM TEETH. 
For a consultation on Wisdom Tooth Removal while you Sleep. Call
Alfonso A. Costa D. M. D. and Roberto C. Michienzi D. M. D. at
681-3737
pos B2iSO Odr pos fVnuVydFV uOjy igo)VnO::a 
oy02jyr wu2giOdri gP2d wu2giOdri 2! V0POnSyr GVir20 SyySus
Student Discounts
50% OFF
ALL SERVICES
Services available:
Emergencies Crowns Bonding
Bleaching Bridges Cleaning
Fillings Root Canals Cum
Consults Treatment
Retainers 
Wisdom Teeth 
Extractions
Expressing some deep-rooted 
fears about baseball season
PROPECIA, from page 12
4. Bret Saberhagen, out until 
June, 15 hairs behind.
5. John Smoltz, out for season, 
30 hairs behind.
6. Gary Gaetti, retired, 50 hairs 
behind.
7. Todd Greene, unknown, 70 
hairs behind.
What Im referring to is a project 
so secret, youll only find a press 
release on Propecias Web site, but 
it could mean the downfall of the 
Yankees and the crest of ballooning 
salaries, and could help pitchers 
keep the baseball inside the park 
for a change. And it was all set in 
motion last year at the All-Star 
break.
At last years All-Star game, these 
seven players announced their 
intention to participate in a contest 
to see who could grow the most hair 
in a one-year period, with the win
ner to be deter- _______________________
mined at this 
years All-Star 
game in July.
The Merck 
company, 
which makes 
P r o p e c i a ,
donated ____________________
$25,000 to
each of seven non-profit charities 
chosen by the players, with the win
ners charity set to receive an addi
tional $25,000.
At last word, the competition for 
the most hair growth was still too 
close to call, but the. baseball impli
cations  on which I based these 
standings  have been startling, to 
say the least.
Of the seven players involved in 
this contest, only two are having 
productive seasons, with three of 
the players spending significant 
time on the disabled list and Gary 
Gaetti announcing his retirement 
from the game after going 0-for-10 
in spring training with the Red Sox 
organization.
And Todd Greene, who at this 
time last year was designated hitter 
with the Anaheim Angels, seems to
have dropped off the face of the 
earth. Depending on which source 
you check, he is a reserve outfielder 
on the team, or doesnt even appear 
on the team roster.
In both cases, he has recorded no 
at-bats this season whatsoever. So 
the question must be asked: Where 
is Todd Greene? And is he still try
ing to grow hair?
So, while there have been plenty 
of disturbing events already in this 
young baseball season  and here 
Im referring to the exploding hot 
dog disaster at Sky Dome in 
Toronto, during which hot dogs 
shot into the stands using the team 
mascots hot dog blaster burst 
apart and showered the fans  
perhaps nothing is more alarming 
than the fates of these seven 
ballplayers.
How long can Stan Javier and 
Walt Weiss sustain their excellence
Enough is enough. Its time for these 
players to get healthy again, and lead 
their teams back to their respective holds 
on mediocrity.
in the face of the Chrome-Domed 
Curse? Participating in a light
hearted contest and earning money 
for charity is to be applauded in any 
case, but when it means sacrificing 
your career, well, how much hair 
are you willing to grow before you 
decide that its enough?
Thats why Im calling for the end 
of this contest. Let's round up these 
seven players, fly them out to con
test judge Linda Stein-Gold, M.D., 
and have the toupee weigh-in, so to 
speak, and declare the winner. 
Enough is enough.
Its time for these players to get 
healthy again, and lead their teams 
back to their respective holds on 
mediocrity. Good luck fellas, and 
keep those hats on.
Now that thats settled, lets get 
the Yankees started on this. Seven
random ballplayers was a fine sam
ple size for a promotion, but lets get 
a real contest going here. I mean, 
havent you ever wondered what 
would happen if you get a whole 
team on Propecia, and see how 
much hair they could grow?
I mean, imagine the benefits. Joe 
Torre could certainly use a few 
more hairs up top, and the Yankee 
pitching staff isnt getting any 
younger.
You know what they say: It
helps you keep the hair you already 
have. Who wants to see a hairless 
Yankee team, anyway?
Most of all, though, as all of New 
York focuses on the Yankees collec
tive effort to re-grow an entire club
house worth of hair, teams like 
Cleveland and Toronto and 
Oakland and Boston can reap the 
benefits.
Saberhagen can come back from
_____________________ his scalp-related
injury and have 
the opposing hit
ters praying for 
two days of rain. 
Gaetti can come 
out of retirement 
and power his 
______ team to the post
season. The 
Yankees may very well end up being 
the best looking club in baseball, 
but their swings will be left hare
brained.
Okay, so maybe I am getting a lit
tle desperate. If baseball cant pro
duce more teams that have a chance 
at challenging the Yankees, 
whether by bringing up better 
pitchers or building less-inviting 
hitters ballparks, then Ill just have 
to deal with it. Propecia cant solve 
the problem all by itself.
But Im thinking it couldnt hurt.
Colt Foutz has never tried 
Propecia even though hes receding 
just the slightest little bit, and hes 
never been a very good baseball 
player to begin with. Hes too anx
ious to learn the whereabouts of 
Todd Greene.
classified
Travel
BE FLEXIBLE ... SAVE $SS
Europe $169 (o/w + taxes)
CHEAP FARES WORLDWIDE!! 
Mexico/Caribbean $199 (r/t + 
taxes)
Call: 1-800-326-2009 
www. 4 cheapair. com
Mexico/Caribbean or Central 
America $229 r.t. Europe $169 o.w. 
Other worldwide destinations cheap. 
ONLY TERRORISTS GET YOU THERE 
CHEAPER! Book tickets on line 
www.airtech.com. or 212-219-7000.
For Sale
FLOWERS for romance, formals, platonic, birthday, get well and more ... 
ALEX's FLOWERS. 687-ALEX. alexsflowers. com/delivery
For Rent - North Oakland.
Fabulous 1 & 2 BR apartments. 
Luxury Building, Great Location. 
MUST SEE!! Call 683-8683.
Shadyside/Beautiful two and three 
bedroom apartments, two blocks 
from Walnut Street, carpeting, fully 
equipped kitchens, security, laundry, 
log burning fireplace, central a/c, 
deck. Available mid-August. Rent 
$750.00 to $1100.00 plus utilities. 
461-5837.
Opportunities
Artist Gallerist P/T - Art Gallery 
relocating to Shadyside will display 
and sell primarily works on paper 
from the 1970's to the present.
Seeks sales-oriented docent familiar 
with contemporary fine art. 
Knowledge of print making tech
niques and of art history a plus. 
Responsibilities include client sales 
and education, handling and hang
ing of art exhibitions. 1 3-30 hrs/wk, 
Wednesday thru Saturday, possibly 
Sunday, and by appointment. Letter, 
resume, references in c/o: Michael 
Berger Gallery, 401 Bingham St, 
Pittsburgh, PA 15203.
Big Money !! Local Mortgage 
Company Seeking Energetic 
Telemarketers. Evening Hours.
Flexible Schedule. Easy way to make 
$$$$$. Call 802-8551
How does 800/week extra income 
sound to you? Amazingly profitable 
opportunity.. Send self-addressed 
stamped envelope to: International 
1375 Coney Island Ave., PMB #427, 
Brooklyn, NY 11230.
Local firm working on virtual reality 
software for NIH funded project.
Seeking programmers with experience 
in C++ (Basic helpful). Knowledge of 
virtual reality programs such as Alice, 
3D Studio Max or Sense8 helpful.
Will work with a team including com
puter graphic artist(s) and other pro
grammers. Send resume to Mary E. 
Mllie-at Psychology Software Tools, 
Inc., 2050 Ardmore Blvd., Suite 200, 
Pittsburgh, PA 15221, fax to: 271- 
7077 or email to: marym@pstnet.com
PR Assistant F/T. Must have MAC 
skills, especially in publishing pro
grams (Photoshop, Quark, etc.) HTML 
skills a plus. Must have a car. Send 
resume to: Director of Public 
Relations, Pittsburgh Filmmakers, 477 
Melwood Ave., Pittsburgh, PA 15213. 
No phone calls.
Seasonal Work: Shadyside 
Management Company needs full
time seasonal workers. Must be at 
least 18 years old. Roofer's Helper, 
Exterior Painter, Exterior Pointing, 
Grass Cutter, college students OK. No 
experience necessary, but must be 
dependable and not afraid to work 
hard. $6.50/hr. Mozart Management 
682-7003.
Student Organizations earn $1000- 
$2000 with the easy campusfundraiser.com three hour fundraising event. 
No sales required. Fundraising dates 
are filling quickly, so call today! 
Contact campusfundraiser.com, 1 - 
888-923-3238, or visit www.campusfundraiser.com.
Summer Childcare Needed F/T - car 
needed. Pine Township - Treesdale. 
Fun neighborhood, pools, tennis. 2
great kids, 9 and 10. 299-8872.
Summer Office Work: Shadyside 
Management Company needs full
time summer help to take applica
tions, answer telephones, and do gen
eral office work. Perfect for grad stu
dents and those entering grad school. 
Degree required. $7.50/hr. Mozart 
Management 682-7003.
Work for an exciting College 
focused Internet company at your 
school! Looking for motivated indi
viduals with strong leadership, entre
preneurial and business skills. Tech 
skills not required. Great experience, 
pay and options! Email resume and 
phone number to Recruiting@uconnections.com
Writer Needed for College of Fine 
Arts Creative journalist needed in the 
College of Fine Arts public relations 
office to cover performances and 
events in the schools of art, oarchitecture, design, drama, and music. The 
position will be part-time and will be 
gin June through the fall semester. To 
apply, email Meg Siegel at 
msiegel@andrew.cmu.edu or call 268- 
5765.
Classified Rates
1-20 words.....$10.00/wk
21-50 words.....$12.00/wk
51-100 words....$15.00/wk
MAIL TO:
The Tartan, Box 17 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
Classifieds must be paid in cash or 
check before first run date
On-campus departments and 
organizations may pay by journal 
transfer
Due by 5 pm the Thursday before 
publication
THE TARTAN
268-2111
' i i>ti i 

---------------------------------------------------

Sports
April 24, 2000THE TARTANPage 12
Underclass 
floods NBA 
draft, again
Full Court Press
by Pete Patterson
Another NBA draft is almost upon 
us, and once again a deluge of 
underclassmen is prepared to storm 
the professional ranks.
As a college basketball fan, it is 
unfortunate to see some of the best 
players in the country forego their 
final year(s) of eligibility to enter the 
ho-hum NBA. Players such as Mike 
Miller, Marcus Fizer, and DeMarr 
Johnson would have all been legiti
mate Player of the Year candidates, 
but will now more likely be toiling 
for lottery-bound clubs such as the 
Grizzlies, Clippers, or Warriors.
However, as I have written in this 
space before, I dont have a problem 
with players such as these opting to 
leave school early. All three have 
proven their skills to the degree that 
they have ensured themselves as 
picks not only in the first-round, but 
in the top 10. This status comes 
along with guaranteed money for 
three years as well as the opportuni
ty to set their free agent clock tick
ing early, at which point the really 
big bucks will start flowing in.
Unfortunately, players such as 
these are not the rule, but rather a 
rarity when it comes to early-entry 
candidates. More common are 
those such as Depauls Paul 
McPherson, Ernest Brown from 
Indian Hills CC, and Jimmie Hunter 
from Life University.
No doubt they are skilled basket
ball players and athletes, but they 
each are missing a key element, be it 
size, experience, or maturity, that 
would vault them into being a first 
round pick.
I harbor no illusions, as many do, 
that the problem is that they are 
missing out on a quality education. 
Let's face it, theyre in school to 
develop their potential to play pro
fessional basketball. By leaving 
school before they are ready for the 
NBA, they are severely hampering 
their chances at future success.
Second-round picks are not guar
anteed a contract in the NBA, and 
those who declare for the draft and 
don't rescind before draft day and 
contact an agent cannot go back 
and play in college. They are at best 
doomed to a life of bouncing around 
the backcountry CBA making a 
mediocre salary.
At worst, they could end up like 
former Cincinnati forward 
Dontonio Wingfield, who left 
school after his freshman year, 
clearly not ready to handle the NBA 
on or off the court. After three years 
he had played himself out of the 
league, and he now resides in a 
Cincinnati penitentiary.
Even worse is the situation 
regarding high school seniors 
declaring themselves eligible for the 
draft. It appears that many of the 
countrys top schoolboy players 
annually are receiving bad advice 
that artificially inflates their opin
ions of their abilities.
Kobe Bryant, Kevin Garnett, and 
Tracy McGrady have shown that the 
leap can be made, but Jonathan 
Bender, Jermaine ONeal, Leon 
Smith, A1 Harrington, Rashard 
Lewis, and Korleone Young have 
shown how difficult it is to make the 
transition a successful one.
Apparently many players havent 
learned from this example, as 
Darius Miles, DeShawn Stevenson, 
Mario Austin, and Gerald Wallace 
are all considering the siren song of 
the NBA draft. Only Miles, a St. 
Johns recruit, is deemed by many 
NBA scouts to be worthy of a high 
selection. The others would be best 
served by honing their skills at the 
collegiate level.
What can be done about this situ
ation? I believe the players need to 
be given more options regarding 
their future once draft day is over 
and they aren't pleased with their 
position.
I think the NCAA should allow 
players not chosen in the first round 
to opt to return to college rather 
than attempting to stick on an NBA 
roster. While this would cause sev
eral difficulties, I believe it is the 
best solution.
See DRAFT, page 11
Tartans ready for UAAs this week
File photo by Matthew Trentacoste/Photo Staff
CMUs track and field teams have been preparing for the UAA Championships, which will be held this weekend in St. Louis.
by Christopher Chung
Sports Editor
The end of the spring season is nearing, and it is time now 
for several of Carnegie Mellons teams to head to the 
University Athletic Association Championships, where a year 
of hard work boils down to one Final weekend of competition 
against fellow UAA schools including Emory University, New 
York University, and Washington University, and others.
The track and field, tennis, and golf teams hope to finish 
strong at the championships.
Outdoor Track and Field
Last Friday, Gesling Stadium was the site of one of the 
Tartans most challenging track meets of the year, which 
included Duquesne University, Robert Morris College, and 
several other Division I schools. The meet was the last in a 
short outdoor season before the team heads to the UAA Track 
and Field Championships later this week, and it proved to be a 
good pre-championships workout.
The competition was the best weve seen all year, said out
door track head coach Dario Donatelli. The Tartans were able 
to keep up with the other schools, posting several first-place 
finishes, and performing well overall.
On the womens side, sophomore Kelly Chin placed first in 
the 1,500-meters event, senior Bridget Szczypinski took the 
first spot in the javelin throw (and was also undefeated on the 
season), and sophomore Brooke Cutler and senior Andrea 
Byrnes took second and third in the 3,000-meters.
For the men, senior Ken Oldham won the 5,000-meters, 
first-year Bob Barton won the shot put, and senior Mark Plesco 
placed second in the 800-meters.
With the regular season over, Donatelli and the team are 
looking to perform strong in the championships, which will be 
hosted by Washington University in St. Louis this weekend.
Both teams are ready for the UAA Championships, said 
Donatelli. As for the teams performance, Donatelli just wants 
the team to perform up to its abilities and finish in the top half 
of the group.
We dont anticipate getting first or second. Well just try to 
do the best we can, said Donatelli.
Tennis
The mens tennis team is getting ready for an exciting week
end in Atlanta, where Emory University will be hosting the 
UAA Tennis Championships this weekend, from Friday, April 
28, to Sunday, April 30.
The team is ranked 12th in the east going into the tourna
ment, and features the Easts first-ranked doubles team of 
first-year players Kayvon Fatahalian and Jonathan Hui, who 
play first and second singles, respectively. Fatahalian is also 
ranked sixth in singles.
According to coach Peter Moss, the mens team has a good 
chance to make nationals, and that is the goal the team is striv
ing for.
Were looking especially for the mens team to go to the 
nationals, said Moss. The nationals will be held sometime in 
May in Kalamazoo, Mich.
The womens team finished the year with a strong 10-5 
record, but doesnt have the high expectation of going to 
nationals. Moss said that the team is looking for a good team 
finish.
Golf
The golf team, as well, has season-ending UAA 
Championships this weekend. The championships will be 
hosted by NYU, at Minisceonga Golf Club in New York, from 
Sunday, April 30 until Tuesday, May 2.
Last weekend, at the District II championship held at 
Hershey Country Club in Hersjiey, Penn., the Tartans finished 
11th. Junior Jamie Brown, who plays the teams number two 
position, snot 163 over two rounds and tied for 12th place 
individually; out of 80 golfers. On the second day of the tour
nament, Bro(wn shot a 78, which tied him for the second best 
single round of the tournament.
The team will play its last match before the championships 
this Tuesday against Washington and Jefferson College.
For the championships, coach Rich Erdelyi hopes to be 
able to compete near the top of the pack, although he con
cedes that Emory will in all likelihood capture the top posi
tion.
We could have a chance to beat Rochester, if we all play to 
the best of our abilities, said Erdelyi. Hopefully we could fin
ish second, and at worst third.
MLB right back in 
the thick of things
I Column As I See Em
by Colt Foutz
Ho-hum, so here we are in the midst of another season of 
Major League Baseball, and all the usual pieces are clicking 
right back into place. The Yankees are still on top, the Braves 
likewise, and gobs of taters are being mashed right out of the 
park  again.
Boston Red Sox pitcher Pedro Martinez has American 
League hitters collectively praying for rainouts, while the 
Houston Astros brand-new Enron 
Field has National League hitters 
checking their schedules and cir
cling their teams dates with the 
Astros in red.
If I were a pitcher on the 
Astros Id feel a little like 
Little Red Riding Hood 
staring down the big 
bad wolf right about 
now.
LRRH: My,
Enron, what a 
short left field 
porch you 
have!
EF: The better t 
knock you out of the 
game with, my dear!
The fact is, all the disturb
ing trends that have been run
ning  and ruining  base
ball for the past few seasons 
have re-emerged this year, 
and I cant say that Im too 
happy about it.
Why should the Yankees win 
every year? Why cant Juan 
Gonzalez take a pay cut for 
being a nitwit? Why cant 
Rawlings make a baseball 
that doesnt make me 
wonder if theyve secret
ly discontinued the rub
ber core and opted 
instead for aluminum?
Why couldnt Detroit just 
have said no to the 
giant cement tiger 
statues outside 
their new 
digs and 
kept playing ' 
at old Tiger 
Stadium for - 
the next, well, forever? And 
whoever heard of a game in San 
Francisco that didnt require a parka?
I know, I know. Im not being realistic. Im not getting 
with the times. Well, if getting with the times means root
ing for whichever team gets second place in the American 
League while the Yankees go on to sweep another World 
Series, Im sorry. Baseball can get along fine without me 
selling out.
But I think I may have discovered a trend that a lot of 
baseball experts havent heard about, and that isn't reflected 
in the league standings.
The 2000 Propecia Pennant Standings are as follows:
1. Stan Javier, batting .425.
2. Walt Weiss, batting .344, 1 hair behind.
3. Sandy Alomar, sore hamstring, 5 hairs behind.
See PROPECIA, page 11
Gabriel Sabourin/Assistant Art Editor,.
Big league ballparks walk fine line
A View From The Bleachers
by Matt Brun
With the grand openings of 
Safeco Field in Seattle last July, and 
Enron Field in Houston, Comerica 
Park in Detroit, and Pac Bell Park in 
San Francisco this year, the total 
number of stadiums in Major 
League Baseball built since 1990 is 
a moderate 12 out of 30. Add to 
that figure Miller Park in 
Milwaukee and PNC Park in 
Pittsburgh (both scheduled to open 
next season), the new stadium in 
San Diego for which voters 
approved public funding in 1998, a 
proposed new park in Cincinnati to 
be built sometime in 2003, and pro
posed stadiums in both 
Philadelphia and Boston, and that 
12 quickly jumps to 18.
Throw in the renovations to 
Oakland County stadium in 1995 
and Anaheim Stadium in the mid1990s and you get 20 out of 30, or a 
full two-thirds of all Major League 
parks built or redone between 1990 
and, say, 2010. What does it all 
mean? Is this progress or a destruc
tion of history?
Ill grant that the addition of four 
new teams since 1993 accounts for 
the building of some new stadiums, 
and some cavernous old parks 
(Municipal Stadium in Cleveland 
and Three Rivers Stadium in 
Pittsburgh) desperately needed to 
be replaced, but I dont think twothirds of the league falls into that
category. Such a massive influx of 
new stadiums is going to have 
repercussions, both good and bad. 
What remains to be seen is whether 
the good will outweigh the bad.
The most obvious fact about new 
stadiums is that someone has to 
pay for them. In most cases, the 
team owner puts up nearly half of 
the money and works out some sort 
of deal with the city for the rest. 
That works well once fans approve
The massive influx 
of new stadiums is 
going to have reper
cussions, both good 
and bad. What 
remains to be seen 
is whether the good 
will outweigh the 
bad.
the added revenue the city needs, 
but dont forget that sooner or later 
the owner is going to want his 
money back, and that means sell
ing tickets. A new stadiums reason 
for being is to generate fan interest 
and to get people buying tickets.
The new trend in stadiums, how
ever, is cozy (read: small) parks
that seat fewer fans than their 
immense predecessors from the 
1960s. Considr that Jacobs Field 
in Cleveland holds roughly 43,000 
people, and compare that to the 
78,000 that Municipal Stadium 
could seat. Of course, each team 
hopes that the interest generated 
will continue and every new park 
will get results like Clevelands run 
of six-plus consecutive seasons of 
sell-outs, but not every opening 
will make for a winning team that 
keeps fans coming back. It doesnt 
take an economic genius to see that 
getting a comparable profit from a 
sellout is going to require a serious 
hike in ticket prices. So long gener
al admission seats for six dollars, 
hello personal seat licenses.
Okay then, mark up a big X in the 
negative category for cost. What 
about history? Starting with the 
opening of the Astrodome in 1965 
in Houston, the rage everywhere 
was a multi-purpose dome with 
plastic grass that seated nearly as 
many people as physically possible, 
for both baseball and football. 
These parks werent pretty (in fact, 
I think most were downright ugly), 
they were perfectly symmetrical, 
and they had little or no character. 
But they were home to thousands 
of fans favorite teams.
When Camden Yards opened in 
Baltimore in 1992, that all 
changed. Suddenly retro parks 
that tried to recapture the closeSee BASEBALL, page 9
Administration
Intramural Director: Mike
Mastroianni, x8-2214 or mma8+ 
Assistant Intramural Director: 
Mike Grzywinski, x8-2214 
Intramural Secretary: Amy Kiryk, 
x8-2053 or kiryk+
IM President: Justin Peroli, x2- 
3917 or peroli+
Vice President: Mike Hutsko, x2- 
3942 or hutsko+
Womens President: Andrea
Nellis, x2-2485 or nellis+
Important Dates
Thursday, April 27  IM track 
meet 6:30 pm at Gesling Stadium 
Wednesday, May 3  IM board 
meeting at 1 pm in Gym 
Conference Room 
Saturday, May 6  Kickball, 
Fencing, and Ultimate Frisbee 
Tournaments
Sports in Season
Floor Hockey  The finals were 
held this week. The champs were 
as follows 
Majors  G's Army 
Intermediate  PiKA A 
Minors  Box Lunch 
Womens  Equippo
Pinochle  Playoffs are out today. 
Play matches as scheduled and 
report results to the IM Office.
Indoor Soccer, Softball, Co-Rec 
Softball  Games are being 
played at th Stadium and in 
Skibo Gym. Playoffs will be posted 
Friday at noon and begin Sunday.
SqUash, Call Pool, Table Tennis, 
and Euchre  Matches are under
way. Please play matches as 
scheduled and report scores to the 
IM Office.
Swim meet  The IM swim meet 
was held Thursday, April 20 at the 
UC Pool. The mens team champ 
was PiKA and the womens champ 
was Kappa.
Track meet  The IM Track meet 
will be held Thursday, April 27 at 
6:30 pm in Gesling Stadium. The 
events are 100m, 200m, 400m, 
800m, mile, 4x100 relay, 4x400 
relay, shot put, and long jump.
Kickball and Ultimate Frisbee  
The kickball and ultimate tourna
ments will be held Saturday May 
6. The brackets will be posted 
Friday at noon.
All Sports Update
Men
PiKA 5075 
SAE 3267 
Beta  3225 
Omega  2275
Women
Hoopers 1750 
KKG 1316 
Frat Girls  966

---------------------------------------------------

Art&vLiving
24 April 2000 THE TARTAN Page Li
EARTH DAY2000
Yves Jean and Lis Harvey perform at Environmental Clubs Earth day event
President Cohon talks with a student on a rainy Earth Day. Cohon delivered a lec
ture on Friday entitled The Future of Environmental Education and Research." 
A civil and environmental engineer, Cohon is knowledgeable in the field.
Kevin Davies braves the weather to plant a tree on the CFA lawn in celebration of this year's Earth Day events.
by Andy Francis
Assistant Arts and Living Editor
To close out a week of lectures and 
assorted other Earth Day-related activities, 
the CMU Environmental Club sponsored a 
Saturday evening concert in the Connan 
Room featuring the CMU student trio Lis 
Harvey Band and the jam-friendly six-piece 
Yves Jean Band. Although neither band 
writes songs that focus on saving the earth, 
Lis Harveys coffeehouse folk and Yves 
Jeans noodling instrumentals seemed right 
at home at an Earth Day celebration.
Singer-guitarist Lis Harvey and her band, 
drummer Joseph Chellman and bassist 
Minda Berbeco, were first up. As they startquickly that they were there to rock. Taking 
their cues from wildly popular jam bands 
like Dave Matthews Band and Phish (one 
member sported a Phish t-shirt; even the 
bands name is reminiscent of DMB), the 
band combined funk, classic rock, and, of 
course, lots of solos, into long, well-planned 
songs that never lost track of their melody. 
Essentially every song Yves Jean Band 
played followed the same pattern: versechorus-verse-chorus-instrumental break. 
Spearheaded by Jeans lively bass, the band 
shone during these times when they let the 
music do the talking. My only complaint: 
the underdeployment of keyboardist Kent 
Englishs Hammond organ, which, when 
present, was responsible for some of the 
concerts most transcendent passages.
As one might expect, the show dragged at 
times, as the music lost its edge towards the 
end. Luckily, the Yves Jean Band pulled it 
all together for their final number, which 
featured some remarkable tubthumping by 
drummer Matt Vucic and noteworthy solo 
turns by nearly every member of the group. 
It was a fitting end to their performance 
and a high point of the whole concert. The 
two acts who played at the Earth Day were 
stylistically very different  Lis Harvey 
sounds ready for another Lilith Fair while 
Yves Jean would be at home on the 
H.O.R.D.E. tour  but both were able to 
create the friendly, hippie-ish atmosphere 
one would expect during a show promot
ing Earth Day.
ed into their first number, a quick count of 
the audience showed that the number of 
concertgoers nearly equaled the number of 
musicians. Undaunted, Harvey and crew 
strummed through eight numbers from 
past and upcoming albums, most of which 
were pleasant and easy to listen to but none 
that managed to stick in my head for long. 
In traditional folk fashion, most of the tunes 
were confessional, semi-autobiographical 
songs about love, ex-boyfriends, and, of 
course, Pittsburgh. Although Harvey owes 
a debt to folkies like Jewel and Lisa Loeb, 
her unique delivery and clever stop-andstart guitar lines gave the Lis Harvey Band 
their own distinct flavor.
After a short break came singer-bassist 
Jean and his group, who established pretty

---------------------------------------------------

Ellis Gallery gives viewers Glimpse into Christians
by Blake Engel
Personnel Manager
The room was empty, but I was 
not alone in it. There were voices 
coming from all corners and people 
drawn on all four walls. This is the 
work of Melissa Collinsworth, 
whose exhibit A Glimpse into the 
Christian Mind has transformed 
the small Ellis Gallery in the third 
floor of the College of Fine Arts 
Building into a testament to Gods 
grace on earth.
The atmosphere in the room is at 
once festive and solemn  the 
young people drawn in pencil on the 
wall all are expressing their joy that 
God has blessed them, one lying 
down flat on his back, one in the 
middle of an exuberant dance, 
another receiving prayer from an 
older man.
The setting is a church that 
Collinsworth says is based on 
! numerous churches she has visited 
during the cour.se of her life. The 
people themselves are people from 
her life, all from diverse back
grounds, but all sharing a deep 
belief in Jesus. Each figure is illus
trated in impeccable detail and is a 
pleasure to examine.
Maybe the focal point of interac
tion with this display is the audio. 
Collinsworth has recorded peoples 
thoughts about self-chosen topics 
such as Jesus and how they came to 
their faith. Each day, the exhibit 
provides a new rotation of record
ings. These testimonies are unre
hearsed, genuine, and inspiring.
If I take my eyes off Him, every
thing goes wrong  I feel so frus
trated, explains one person. I 
dont have to worry about myself, 
says another. I just love to say His 
name ... Jesus, Jesus, Jesus. It has 
healing power.
The combination of sound and 
pictures makes for a wonderful 
effect. Viewers are forced to pull 
in close to the speakers to hear the 
stories and can see the drawings in 
detail. Collinsworth expected this 
effect, and that viewers would be 
in the middle of a real situation. 
Being in the room requires obser
vation  the church atmosphere 
is present and unintimidating, and 
the people surround viewers with 
their emotions.
Melissa Collinsworth deserves a 
lot of credit for showing the 
courage to design this exhibit. She 
has offered renewed proof that 
not only secular, but also spiritual 
art can be moving and skillfully 
crafted.
A woman seeks salvation in this drawing from Melissa Collinsworth's CFA exhibit "A Glimpse into the Christian Mind," which was in the Ellis gallery last Friday.
UC art gallery display highlights pen and pencil 
drawings and sketches by CMU graduate student
Behnam Farahpour/Contributing Editor
This pencil drawing of Hang Chow in China was the centerpiece featured at the UC art gallery. 
Although this picture appears stark and simple, it took the artist two years to complete.
Behnam Farahpour
Contributing Editor
Drawings in pen or pencil are usually valued 
less than paintings. While many famous painters 
show their exhibits across the United States, there 
are very few famous drawers to have their exclu
sive show at a gallery or a museum. The latest 
exhibit at the UC art gallery was pen and pencil 
drawings by Hwee Quan Lee, a graduate student 
in physics. The exhibit consisted of a handful of 
drawings depicting the simple things one might 
find around campus.
The drawing Light is a simple drawing of a 
streetlight, but the descriptions make it very 
interesting. All hopes of having a productive 
evening studying for my finals was gone with the 
gentle breeze which carries me into a relaxed 
mood, said one. It seems like that happens a lot 
when students procrastinate during finals. When 
there is so much pressure and intensity for the 
finals, students get away from studying by doing 
something relaxing. In the drawing First Winter 
of My Life, he describes how much he enjoys 
winters and winter activities. It is rare to see 
someone who likes the often dark and cold win
ter season, but winter can be a.very quiet and 
peaceful time as Lee describes in another one of 
his drawings, Trees outside of a window.
There were a few drawings based on pictures 
from National Geographic. The centerpiece of the 
exhibit was a drawing of Hang Chow in China 
from a picture in National Geographic. Done in 
pencil, the piece took Lee two years and over fifty 
hours of work to complete. The drawing was of 
the village with a river going through it, and was 
done in extreme softness of dark and light values.
Hwee Quan Lees work showed his interest in 
drawing and sketching, even when he only had a 
few moments to spare. We should all find the time 
to draw, relax, and escape from everyday life. 
The UC gallery will be running this exhibit until 
May 6. The Gallery is open Tuesdays, 
Thursdays, and Fridays from 11 am to 5 pm, 
Wednesdays from 11 am to 7 pm, and 
Saturdays from noon to 3 pm during the acad
emic semester.
Warhol drawings debut at museums latest exhibit
by Thaddeus Billman
Staffwriter
You knew he could paint, but I 
bet you didnt know he could 
draw too. Thats right, 
Pittsburghs own Andy Warhol 
Museum is now hosting the first 
exhibit of the famous painters 
drawings. Different from past 
displays such as the Warhol lookalike exhibit, this one will con
sist of drawings from all periods 
of Warhols life.
According to the museum, the 
only significant display of Warhol 
drawings was over 20 years ago in 
Stuttgart,Germany. Furthermore, 
much of the artists later work has 
never been on public display. This 
lack of exhibitions has caused 
many to believe that Warhol 
stopped drawing after his career 
as a commercial artist in the 
1950s. The truth is that he contin
ued to draw right up until his 
death in 1987, thus leaving an 
important aspect of the artists 
career virtually unexplored.
The set of drawings, now on 
display at The Andy Warhol 
Museum, recently completed a 
worldwide tour with stops in 
Basal, Switzerland, Kleve, 
Germany, and Minneapolis, 
among other places. The draw
ings, which arrived February 27, 
will remain on display until April 
30 before returning to storage.
The 230-piece collection fea
tures a wide variety of pop 
images, similar to Campbells 
Soup cans and Marilyn Monroe 
portraits Warhol and other pop 
artists such as Roy Lichtenstein 
were famous for painting. The 
collection is comprised of drawings of famous people and things 
from several generations, as well as 
creations of Warhols imagination. 
Among the highlights of the col
lection is a piece entitled Shoes. 
Shoes features a large number 
of unpaired womens boots and 
heels in a variety of colors. The 
shoes are placed at varying angles 
and arranged in close proximity to 
one another.
The Andy Warhol Museum is 
the largest single-artist museum 
in the world, with over 3000 
pieces by the famous artist. In 
addition to paintings and draw
ings, Warhol created prints, sculp
tures, films, and audiotapes. To 
complement Warhols work, the 
museum owns a large collection 
of source material used by Warhol 
and an extensive collection of 
important documents from his 
life. From time to time the 
musuem also features exhibits 
that dont necessarily have to do 
with Warhol.
At any given time about 500 
pieces are on display, spread 
across seven floors. A variety of 
work, ranging from Warhols ear
liest efforts to works done in his 
final days, shows a steady pro
gression of his works evolution 
over time, providing a treat for 
fans and casual spectators alike.
The museum is located at 117 
Sandusky Street and is open from 
10 am to 5 pm, Wednesday 
through Sunday. On Fridays it 
stays open until 10 pm. Admission 
is $7 for adults, $4 for students, 
and free for members of the 
Carnegie Museums. For further 
information, contact the Andy 
Warhol Musuem at (412) 237- 
8300; you can also visit 
http://www. warhol org.First Year Service Initiative Organization allows new CMU students to participate in community activities
Light,"by Hwee Quan 
with the piece explains
Lee, is a pen and pencil 
how the artist drew so he
Behnam Farahpour/Contributing Editor
drawing of a streetlight. A description 
could procrastinate during final exams.
by Emily Landes
Senior Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellon students are apathetic. 
For many students, it is a phrase that they may 
hear as early as orientation and, through repe
tition, often come to believe. But one organi
zation is attempting to stop this damaging first 
impression before it can take hold. For the past 
two years, there has been a notice about the 
First Year Service Initiative tucked inside of 
every incoming first-year students orientation 
package.
The First Year Service Initiative (FYSI), a 
community service organization designed to 
get first-year students involved in volunteer 
work and leadership activities the moment 
that they arrive on campus, was founded in 
the fall of 1998 by Raymond Ip, now a senior 
chemical engineering and psychology double 
major. Ip began his foray into community ser
vice during his first year, when he helped to 
organize a volunteer program at a home for 
single mothers. His positive experiences 
beginning that program convinced him that 
more first-year students should get an oppor
tunity to start their own service activities.
I was hoping that by providing a similar 
opportunity [to organize a service project] to
first-year students, they would be able to ... 
become a leader on campus, said Ip. This is 
one of the main goals of the program, to culti
vate new leaders on campus.
In addition to teaching leadership skills, Ip 
also hoped that the program would lead to 
more inter-major mingling among first-year 
students.
One of the problems we have on campus is 
that students tend to not know too much 
about people outside of their majors, he said. 
As such, according to Ip, one of his hopes for 
FYSI is for mutual leaders of community ser
vice to get to know each other, so when they 
run into each other like in two years theres 
more chances that these organizations can 
work together. So its kind of like a tightening 
factor for the campus.
After coming up with the idea for the pro
gram, Ip went to Student Life, where he met 
with Carolina Garcia, a coordinator for that 
department. He told Garcia that he wanted to 
start an organization that would give first-year 
students a chance to begin their own commu
nity service activities on campus and through
out the larger Pittsburgh community. The pro
gram would also involve using upperclassmen 
with previous community service experience 
to help organize and facilitate each project. 
Garcia loved the idea, and agreed with Ip that
the leadership and interpersonal skills learned 
in the program would be equally important to 
the service aspect of the initiative.
I think one of our biggest missions in 
Student Life is to make sure that students get a 
full experience and once they leave Carnegie 
Mellon that theyve developed not only acade
mically but in other aspects of life, said 
Garcia. And this program definitely helps 
with that because it helps build leadership 
styles and to gain all these skills while making 
them more civic and learning about that civic 
duty.
Garcia then gave Ip permission, and fund
ing, to start a year-long pilot program. After 
that program proved successful in 1998 and 
early 1999, FYSI became an official part of 
Student Lifes Service Learning branch.
Some of the projects that the FYSI has 
become involved with since its official start 
in 1999 have included habitat beautification 
projects, where first-year students and their 
upperclassmen facilitators built a small park 
on abandoned land in Braddock, as well as 
Campus Health Awareness projects, clothing 
drives in Shadyside, and tutoring programs at 
Sunnyside Elementary school.
But perhaps the most successful program to 
come out of the FYSI is, somewhat unsurprisSee FIRST-YEAR, page L4

---------------------------------------------------

nalcioslrwvaTiHsEARe 
SdNnGzh fC&dNGnpyF
TartanAngcls.com is the first on-line angel investor network linking 
entrepreneurs and investors from the Carnegie Mellon community.
llniversityAngels.com an on-line 
angel investor marketplace serving 
the worlds top universities, is proud 
to welcome TartanAngels.com to 
its network. Now you can tap into 
your alumni community for capital, 
advice or whatever you need to get 
your new; company off the ground.
REGISTRATION
is FAST, 
EASY AND
CONFIDENTIAL
'.com
Investing in the Carnegie Mellon community
o TnrionAngols.com'"
Get Ready For Vour Most Refreshing Course
Coca-Cola Company is Looking for a 
student rep on this campus. It's a 
great job with a great company on a 
great campus.
To be a Coca-Cola Campus Marketing Manager, you 
must be a full-time student and be totally tuned in 
to all aspects of campus life. Vou'll need good 
marketing skills, as well as strong organizational 
abilities. Vou'll be called on to identify marketing 
opportunities and to present, sell, and promote CocaCola brands on campus.
If you're a current sophomore or junior and are 
looking for real world experience, visit us at 
www.edventurepartners.com/cmm for all the details, 
job requirements and application procedures.
Great JDrink. _ . Great Job.
Each Campus Marketing Manager will be employed by the local Coca-Cola bottler, which is an equal 
opportunity employer.
01999-The Coca-Cola Company. Coca-Cola.' the Dynamic Ribbon device, the Contour Bottle design, the Red Disk Icon are registered trademarks of The Coca-Cola Company.
StudentsSummer Storage
471-1 1
Need to store your belongings for the summer?!E1LOW PRICES, You cant beat them o- CLOSE to campus, on Forbes Avenue 
We pick up or you drop offo- Secured clean, dry temperature controlled We have cartons available fr We do packing and shipping Your belongings are inventoried fr Referral Rewards ,J
SIT BACK AND LET US DO THE WORK
?Student ID Required
Looking Forward to Seeing You Again!
YOU

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  APRIL 24. 2000
FYSI provides service 
projects for students
FIRST-YEAR, from page L2 
ingly, the computing skills lessons 
at Peabody High School. In this 
program, first-year students teach 
high school teachers a CSW-style 
introductory computer class to get 
teachers acquainted with every 
thing from clicking a mouse to 
writing HTML.
The thing that I like the best, 
that Ive gotten out of the pro
gram, is a sense of community 
with parts of Pittsburgh, said 
Sabrina Haskell, a first-year com
puter science major involved in 
.the computing service project. I 
didnt know anything about any of 
the high schools and now I feel 
like I know some of the teachers at 
Peabody and have a connection 
there.
Other members of the team cite 
the positive group dynamic as a 
major incentive for working on 
this project.
We all work really well togeth
er as a team, said Anusha 
Krishnakumar, a first-year stu
dent in electrical and computer 
engineering. We assign each 
other jobs, and everyone actually 
does them. No ones a slacker. So 
its been really good.
Perhaps as a result of this 
encouraging experience, many of 
the first-year students in this pro
gram are going on to become 
facilitators for next years FYSI 
participants, who for the first
time will get an entire year, 
instead of only one semester, to 
organize and work on their com
munity service projects.
Current participants believe 
that this change will be helpful in 
increasing commitment to the 
program, thus creating future 
generations of facilitators. 
According to Tong Kimyaw, a firstyear student in ECE, one-semeter 
projects experience problems 
because, We have a whole semes
ter, then a break, then we start 
recruiting for facilitators but peo
ple have already forgotten about 
this program entirely.
Haskell, Krishnakumar, and 
Kimyaw all plan to work as facili
tators next semester, but Ip stress
es that other upperclassmen inter
ested in being facilitators are 
encouraged to apply. He also 
hopes to involve more first-year 
students in the program next year. 
Currently, about 25 first-year stu
dents are involved, but Ip would 
like to see that number climb up 
to fifty so that more people can 
reap the benefits of his innovative 
and stimulating program.
I am hoping that people will 
get inspired and go and start their 
own initiative, rather than just 
taking part in a project that some 
one else organized, he said. 
Because that way students learn 
more about the Pittsburgh com
munity.
Interested in writing about cultural events and campus life? 
Then write for
ArtLiving
email tartan@andrew.cmu.edu
Work in Progress: A Festival of Steel, Sweat, 
and American Cinema to debut in McConomy
by Joanna Smiley
Arts and Living Editor
Imagine walking into a classroom where you get 
to suddenly play the role of the creator, the writer, 
the director the God of filmmaking, the creativi
ty behind the screen. Welcome to Professor Kathy 
Newmans student film festival class, a unique 
course that allows students to organize and then 
put on a film festival for their community.
Each year, the English and History departments 
alternate between various new themes and ideas. 
Last years featured Chinese cinema, and this years 
theme, Work in Progress: A Festival of Steel, 
Sweat, and American Cinema, will be about labor
Never have I had a course 
that has been so real life, 
bringing together all types 
of peoples experiences and 
talents.
 Natalia Beylis
movements and the work force throughout history. 
Professor Newman, who came up with this idea, 
says that her interest in labor stemmed from when 
she worked as a union organizer, and that this 
theme will be a good way of introducing students 
to many of these issues and their context in every
day life.
The student film festival class consists of 21 stu
dents that are divided into 4 committees. Each of 
these four groups is responsible for putting togeth
er a different aspect of the film festival. For exam
ple, the choosing committee watched over fifty 
films, and then their job was to select the best ones.
There are four major events that will take place 
this upcoming week at the premiere of the film fes
tival. The first night will feature three documen
taries about Pittsburgh steel factories. On Friday 
night, a guest speaker, Professor Steven J. Ross 
from USC, will be discussing early filmmaking and 
pre-Hollywood cinema. Then, on Saturday night, 
young filmmakers in their early twenties will be 
showing their pieces, one of which is Cold Call, a 
comedy about telemarketing. Closing up the show 
on Sunday, there will be two films produced by 
independent directors, one by an adjunct professor 
and the other a film on unions, made by a 24-yearold filmmaker at Yale University, that has won 
national recognition for outstanding production. 
In addition to these films, all of the directors and 
screenplay writers will be attending each showing, 
and will be happy to speak to students interested in 
anything related to filmmaking.
Natalia Beylis, a senior creative writing and 
English major with a Russian minor, is a student 
in this class who said she had an incredible 
experience working on the films. Some stu
dents at CMU may think of labor films as boring, 
but its important for people who want to work 
in businesses or corporations to realize the his
tory behind the work force and who they will be 
working with. It is shocking to see labor move
ments, its a part of history that often gets hid
den, she says. She agrees that the festival will 
be an eye-opening experience for much of the 
CMU student body. Beylis worked on the admin
istrative committee, which involved getting 
together 1 or 2 page background notes on the 
films and designing the tickets to resemble a 
timecard that you would punch in at a factory.
The students involved in this event will be 
wearing t-shirts designed by junior Aaron 
Michaelson, a member of the communications 
committee. For their final paper, students will 
have the opportunity to reflect upon what type 
of experience they had in putting together this 
film festival. Beylis says, Never have I had a 
course that has been so real life, bringing 
together all types of peoples experiences and 
talents. It makes me feel prepared for the real 
world.
The Work in Progress film festival will begin 
Monday, April 24. For more information, visit 
http://english. emu. edu/projects/festival/frame.html
Name
WORK IN PROGRESS
Department
Steel, Sweat & American Cinema
Pay Period 
April 27 - 30, 2000
Pay Rate 
CMU/Union ID 
SI/Film S2/Day $7/Festiva 
All Others S3/S5/S10
DateDescriptionInOut
04/27Ualley Town7:009:00
Women of 
Steel
Struggles in 
Steel
04/27Flashdance16:3012:00
04/28Passaic Textile 
Strike - FREE
2:303:30
04/28Modern Times6:308:30
04/28On the Waterfront8:3010:30
04/28Blue Collar10:3012:30
04/29Target Shoots First5:006:15
04/29Cold Call6:157:45
04/29Roger and Me9:3011:15
04/29Fast, Cheap, and 
Out of Control
1151512:30
34/30Degrees of Shame3:005:00
Subtext of a 
Yale Education
04/30Harlan County, USft7:009:00
04/30Norma Rae9:0011:00
04/30October Sky11:001:00
courtesy of Film Festival Class
The film festival ticket was designed to resem
ble a factory workers time card, in keeping with 
this year's "Work in Progress" theme. The card 
was made by the Communications Committee.
Carnegie Almanac
50 YEARS AGO
April 25, 1950  A lecture called Electronic 
Thinking Machines was to be given by Dr.
C.C. Hurd, the director of the applied science 
department, of IBM. Hurd, an expert in the 
field of high-speed computing machines, had 
developed a reputation as an interesting and 
effective speaker. As this was a highly contro
versial topic, a large crowd was anticipated for 
the event.
25 YEARS AGO
April 15,1975  The administration started 
considering plans to renovate Skibo that 
included the possibility of converting the 
Tartan Grill into a movie theater. In order to 
investigate the issue further, a study was 
planned to analyze possible uses of the build
ing.
The proposed movie theater would seat 500 
people and would provide a larger and higherquality space to view movies than the class
rooms that were being used. It was estimated 
that about $100,000 would be available for 
the changes.
Bryan Kaplan/Photo Editor
Members of the First Year Service Initiative organization include Sabrina 
Haskell, Tong Kimyaw, Anusha Krishnakumar, and founder Raymond Ip.
TEN YEARS AGO
April 17, 1990  Two CMU students were 
robbed at gunpoint, bringing the number of vio
lent crime incidents on or near campus to four. 
Two weeks earlier there was a robbery and two 
kidnappings.
Two men who were roommates were robbed 
immediately after using an automatic teller 
machine on the corner of Craig and Fifth Avenue. 
A man got out of a car and asked the students not 
to leave. He approached them and threatened 
them with a revolver.
FIVE YEARS AGO
April 10, 1995  Three members of the Alpha 
Epsilon Pi (AEPi) fraternity were injured when 
their Animaniacs Carnival booth collapsed dur
ing construction. According to witnesses, the 
booth collapsed as they put the roof on it because 
it was lopsided. According to Campus Police, the 
three injuries were minor.
Upon learning that the brothers were fine, the 
fraternity began repairing the booth. They said 
they worked 24 hours a day until the Midway 
opened. The booth held up throughout Carnival.
ONE YEAR AGO
April 26, 1999  Although Paramount 
Pictures was supposed to be finished shooting 
the Wonder Boys movie on campus, the 
University granted them one more chance to 
finish their shooting. An outdoor shot on Tech 
Street that involved Michael Douglass charac
ter coming out of his car was one of the scenes 
that was to be filmed.
As compensation for the extra time, 
Paramount gave $5,000 to GSIA students, as it 
had previously given to H&SS and CFA stu
dents. The film company also agreed to spon
sor nine paid internshi'ps in the Pittsburgh 
Film Office for CMU students over the next 
three summers. According to the TribuneReview, someone involved with Paramount 
Pictures was upset about having to compen
sate students with money for an extra day of 
filming. It reported that the Pittsburgh Film 
Office received a phone call threatening to 
blacklist Pittsburgh as a future location for 
Hollywood films.
Compiled by 
Seth Mandel
Corrections from last weeks Spring Carnival Issue
Last week in the Spring Carnival Special Section, there were several photo and art credits that were omitted due to printing problems. They should be 
credited as follows:
Center Spread Corrections:
Art by: Adam Grossi/Art Staff
Design by: Justin Suissa/Art Editor and Gabriel Sabourin/Assistant Art Editor
Photos by (in clockwise order starting at the lower right): Lisette Miller-Dixon/Contributing Editor, Brian Smith/Contributing Editor, Lisette 
Miller- Dixon/Contributing Editor, Gabriel Sabourin/Assistant Art Editor, Emily Gensheimer/Photo Staff, Lisette MillerDixon/Contributing Editor, Bryan Kaplan/Photo Editor, Brian Smith/Contributing Editor.
Historical Highlights From 80 Years of Buggy Corrections:
Design by: Justin Suissa/Art Editor
Photos courtesy of University Archives (Jennifer Aronson), Information courtesy of Student Activities 
Back Spread Correction:
Photo in lower left corner was shot by Behnam Farahpour/Contributing Editor. Farahpours name was mispelled on that page.
r _)YSIDE 
PRESBYtERlAN*0FT*
xhe Concert Series at Shadyside Presbyterian Church 
presents
John Rose
concert organist
4:00 p.m. 
Sunday, 30 April 2000 
at Shadyside Presbuterian Church
one bbek off Fifth Avenue at Amberson) 
Admission free
For more information call 682-4300 or visit www.shadysidepres.org
BERMAN CHIROPRACTIC OFFICE 
128 N. Craig Street 
(Park Plaza Bldg. between CMU and PITT)
Now offering to NEW PATIENTS 
Complementary FIRST VISIT !!
Berman Chiropractic has been servicing the CMU and PITT communities 
for the past 17 years.
So, now is your chance to try Chiropractic and see how we can help with your 
Health problems.
Please Call For An Appointment... today !!
687-1112
t WE ACCEPT BC/BS, UPMC, AON SELECT AND 700 OTHER INSURANCES

---------------------------------------------------

I CAN MAKE 
A BETTER SHOW 
THAN THIS?
HE JUST DID.
Tune into Nibblebox.com for the most cutting edge, innovative and 
irreverent entertainment. All created by students, with the help of 
some of the hottest names in the film and television industry like 
John Leguizamo, Doug Liman and Steven Soderbergh.
nibblC^box
entertainment bytes
www.nibblebox.com
YOU KNOW THAT FRIEND
WHO ALWAYS SAYS,
YOURE NOT THE UALEDICTORIAN,YOURE THE ONEHELL END UPWORKING FOR.
Win $150,000 in
Garage.com's Ultimate Student 
Business Plan Competition
Got a great business idea? We want to hear 
it. Enter your business plan in Garage.com's 
PLANedu competition. Who's eligible? Full
time students from any accredited U.S. 
college or university. The top five business 
plans wifl be presented to a distinguished 
panel of judges at our fnal event in 
Siicon Valley in May. The winning team V 
walks away with 150 big ones. U 1
For complete contest details and to
enter, check us out at ^LI|
Ktp-y/www.garage.com/PLANedu
garagetTcom
vve start up startups
Forbes 
Sprint.
(runt Thornton
Charles SchwabL- THE 1ITIMIE
STUDENT BUSINESS PUN COMPETITIONrk)t^'tnTOnaciASotoin*orj/Tute*reMOby/!<>v2a.MOarx3iawV!iiroonrCT rwi'fcrt. 18 ftana Mtf.cn&ea naUS. colepo or wtefslyaoc/3/15(3001}
The five colleges which make up the London Institute. - 
Camberwell, Central Saint Martins, Chelsea,' London 
College of Fashion and London College-of-Printing - 
offer the world's widest range^df courses in art, 
design and communications. Their MA course'.programme
is second to none. It includes book arts, conservation,
f   11communication design, design studies, fashion, film,
Hfine art, graphics, industrial design, media, 
multimedia, scenography and textiles.
 II
Interested? To find out more contact Rachel Hudson,
65 Davies Street, London W1Y 2DA, United Kingdom. 
Telephone: +44 20 7514 6130 Fax: +44 20 7514 6131 
e-mail: marcom@linst.ac.uk web site: www.linst.ac.uk

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
Why should you recycle?
^CYCLING f
- r-,rneie Me1'0"'
Every ton of glass recycled 
saves the equivalent of nine gallons 
of fuel oil needed to make glass 
from virgin materials.
Container glass can be recycled 
repeatedly with no loss of 
quantity or quality.
We throw away enough
iron and steel to continuously
supply all of America's auto makers.
Making new paper from old paper 
uses 30% to 55% less energy than 
making paper from trees and 
reduces related air pollution by 95%.
35% of the polyester carpet sold in 
America contains recycled 
PETbottles (primarily soft drinkbottfes).steel bi-metal cans 
orAMG on Neville
ipandAHG uses a
if the markets for 
,'rcial value of
PRS receives is 
Pittsburgh, 0
he metal as scral 
make tin ingots, 
has a commeiNewspaper is recycled into newspaper, 
game boards, egg cartons, gift boxes, 
animal bedding, insulation, and 
packaging material.November
*AH market information
Source-. Carnegie Mellon Environmental Practices CommitteeEnvironmental lecture explains work to eliminate dangerous pollutants
As one might expect, producing these sub
stances is quite a daunting task. For inspiration, 
Collins looked to the earths undisputed number 
one green chemist: Mother Nature. Although, as 
he admits, Nature is fundamentally not copyable 
because its too complicated, Collins and his 
group have adopted a policy of designing complex 
processes around relatively simple everyday ele
ments like oxygen and hydrogen. He then went 
through some of the science involved in the dis
covery, improvements, and fine-tuning of these 
catalysts.
After nearly twenty years of research, Collins 
and his group succeeded in developing a class of 
materials called tetraamido-macrocyclic ligand 
catalysts, abbreviated TAML. The compounds 
have thus far earned eight US patents and have 
been patented in over 60 countries. The groups 
results have been quite dramatic; tests involving 
the catalysts have been very effective and, just as 
importantly, produce almost no pollution. 
Speaking after the talk, Collins was very opti
mistic about the work and thinks that [the com
pounds] will definitely be implemented in indus
tries.
Collins recognizes the vast array of benefits that 
useful yet poisonous materials have brought to 
mankind over the years, and doesnt dwell on the 
damage already done. Instead, he chooses to look 
to the future and tries to apply the principles of 
green chemistry to the improvement of existing 
processes. Collins says that we have to shift our 
mind to the ecosphere rather than the economy 
and with the research being done at CMU, perhaps 
he can convince industries to do so as well.
by Andy Francis
Assistant Arts & Living Editor
Most environmentalists are quick to champion 
ecosystem over economy, calling for more geocen
tric policies and practices. Professor Terry Collins, 
though, is using science to actually do something 
about it. As part of this weeks Earth Day events, 
Collins presented his groups work in the field of 
green chemistry during a talk sponsored by the 
CMU Environmental Club. His talk, titled 
Sustainable Oxidation Chemistry, gave a brief 
overview of the major issues and problems facing 
green chemists and outlined work being done here 
at CMU developing compounds designed to elimi
nate harmful pollutants.
Collins wasted no time in explaining that, as it 
stands, the earths population may not be sus
tainable for a long period of time given peoples 
use of nonrenewable and polluting resources. 
He said that the main goals of green chemistry 
are to provide renewable energy sources and 
food supplies, and to reduce the current levels 
of pollution. It is that last idea that Collinss 
interests are focused on; his work aims to 
replace dangerous chlorine compounds used in 
many key industries like paper, steel, and tex
tiles. Instead of these highly toxic and some
times even deadly substances, Collins looks to 
design completely harmless catalysts. These 
compounds induce simple hydrogen peroxide  
like you might find in your medicine cabinet  
to do the work a troublesome pollutant would 
ordinarily do.
Kevin Babbitt is a senior computer science major and a I 
Tartan Contributing Editor. As this will be his last installment of ) 
The Geek Beat, hed like to thank everyone who has read the col- ' 
umn over the time hes written it, and hed like to thank everyone at CMU for a wild, unforgettable ride these past four years. [
CMU becomes number one wired school in nationBirds gain fat before travel
puting services and and chief infor
mation officer.
As President Cohon said in an 
interview with the surveys cre
ators, Were not your typical uni
versity. We were the first fully net
worked campus ever ... and were 
using the technology to bridge the 
distance between all disciplines. 
The Net is our meeting ground.
In additional to the wireless net
work, CMU got high marks for new 
computer purchases, online course 
information and scheduling, library 
resources, and the extensiveness of 
the network.
The only category CMU scored 
poorly in was technical support. The 
University was listed with an N for 
not having technical support at least 
eight hours a day, much to the cha
grin of.Kevin Miller, a junior in com
puter science who works for 
Computing Services. Im not sure 
why we are marked as N for tech
support, given that our Help Center 
is open [from] 9 am - 9 pm Monday 
through Thursday [and] 9 am - 7 
pm Friday.
The other results were not sur
prising to Miller, who said Things 
like the wireless network demon
strates that CMU is pushing the 
edge in terms of new technology. 
The survey examined more than 
40 factors ranging from the size and 
power of the schools network to the 
percentage of wired classrooms, to 
the resources available for students 
in picking a winner. This year fea
tured the most extensive compari
son in the studys short three-year 
history, with over 1,200 schools par
ticipating.
Weve always had a strong tradi
tion in computing services and 
strong infrastructure here, said 
Futhey. Its nice to see the popular 
press has noticed it. Our goals are to 
serve the campus community.
Last years winner, Case! 
Western Reserve University, failed; 
to make the top 100 after, being; 
widely criticized by students for; 
exaggerating and falsifying data1 
to achieve the title. In answeringlast year's survey, many students! 
felt the school exaggerated some! 
statistics, such as computer lab! 
hours, said Nick Thorpe, editpr! 
of Case Westerns newspaper. The J 
party responsible for submitting; 
the false data has since left the; 
university.
Of all the universities surveyed,* 
98% have online applications and. 
64% offer web based class registra-! 
tion. And as for CMUs archrival,! 
MIT, which had finished first and! 
third in the previous two surveys,; 
they had to settle for sixth place.; 
Their rating suffered, in part, to a; 
less extensive network and less1 
extensive online registration  
options.
their bodies before they takeoff, 
allowing them to reduce the foodprocessing organs.
Now theres a trick you wont 
learn at your local weightloss 
clinic.
Do you hate long journeys? Do 
you always seem to end up with 
too much baggage? Well, a 
migrating bird that travels thou
sands of miles each year has real
ly mastered the art of travelling 
light.
The bar-tailed godwit, a wad
ing bird about the size of a gull 
flies non-stop from Alaska to New 
Zealand each year. New Scientist 
magazine reports that these fre
quent flyers are able to fatten 
themselves up before they travel 
until about 55% of their weight is 
pure fat.
To compensate, they shrink 
their internal organs so that their 
stomachs, kidneys and livers are 
up to 25% lighter. Once they have 
landed, they process the food and 
rebuild their internal organs. 
Scientists think these birds may 
be able to re-shuffle proteins in
by Thaddeus Billman
Staffwriter
Its all about the bandwidth, 
baby! Well no, actually it is a combi
nation of many factors that puts 
Carnegie Mellon on top of the 
annual Yahoo-Life Most Wired 
Colleges list.
The number one rating is a nice 
improvement compared to last 
years number six placing. The sur
vey was impressed by the 
Universitys new wireless network, 
among other things, giving 
Carnegie Mellon the edge needed to 
beat number two University of 
Delaware.
Its nice to know that the wireless 
network that weve been working on 
over the past few years and taken a 
leadership role in is recognized and 
singled, out by the survey, said 
Tracey Futhey, vice provost of comSource: National Public Radio.
Reagan Heller/Art Staff
Science^Technology

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN - APRIL 24. 2000
m.4 i
es. Phone calls 
can get you
Before you consider blowing on your siuuum nw>,  Jo
from bill collectors. Withholding your wages. A bad credit rating 
turned down for credit cards, car loans and mortgages. Don't do something 
you'll regret, when PHEAA can help you keep on track.
Learn more at ! <>r catl 1 800.328.0355
( 'ratg Aiass to fhuaion
-When Adobe releases Illustrator 9 early this NEW BUILT-IN WEB FUNCTIONALITY
summer, users can expect new Web 
functionality, more file format support, a 
refined user interface, and a tighter 
integration with Photoshop. The list of 
changes and revisions are substantial, but
With Adobe's new release of Illustrator 9.0, it will be easier to mock up 
Web pages and create exciting web graphics using an improved set of 
vector graphics tools. Illustrator now supports a Pixel Preview mode 
for adjusting how rasterized graphics will look on the web, and allows 
you to output your files in compact, vector-bascd graphics in Flash 
(SWF) or scalable vector graphics (SVG) format, or use sophisticated 
compression controls to prepare optimized GIF, JPEG, and PNG files.
REVAMPED LAYERS PALETTE
as Adobe blurs the line between vector and 
. raster programs, it becomes more apparent 
that a completely integrated suite of 
graphics applications will emerge and 
dominate the field of visual design and 
communication. Illustrator 9 offers many 
Photoshop-like effects and exciting vector 
output format support (such as Flash 
and the newly emerging SVG web standard 
format). It also features new layer nesting 
and unlimited transparency capabilities. 
But to run Illustrator 9, you'll need a pretty 
robust system. Windows machines will 
require Windows and Intel Pentium or 
faster processor, Microsoft Windows4' 98, 
Windows NT 4.0, or Windows 2000 and on 
the Mac, you'll need a PowerPC processor.
One feature that has been long-coming is the new hierarchy-based 
layers structure. With Folder-like navigation, you can control the way 
your artwork elements arc displayed, organized, rearranged, and 
monitored. With this new functionality you can nest layers and objects 
and reorder any element by simply dragging it up or down in the 
Layers palette. Other enhancements include the Release to Layers 
command for automatically generating separate layers, clipping masks 
for shaping the display of artwork, and the ability to target elements in 
the Layers palette as recipients of style and appearance attributes.
NEW GRAPHIC STYLES AND LAYER EFFECTS
1\vo familiar features that were introduced in Photoshop 5 and 
ImageStylcr have finally made their way into Illustrator. Graphic styles 
and layer effects lets you create arid save a set of appcarance 
attributes, called a style, so that the style can be applied instantly to 
any number of graphic objects and type. It's like having a graphic style 
sheet for all of your illustrations giving you improved flexibility and 
efficiency. Because styles arc linked nondestructively to their objects, 
you can continue to reshape, resize, transform, and retype the objects 
with the assurance that the styles will update with your edits.
UNLIMITED TRANSPARENCY CAPABILITIES
The new Transparency palette lets you apply transparency to any 
graphic object, bitmap image, or type character in your artwork so 
that underlying objects are partially or fully revealed. Objects and text 
remain fully editable with transparency applied. New masking 
capabilities allow you to make elements partially visible at varying 
levels nondestructively.
EXPANDED INTEGRATION_____________s_________
Science & Technology briefs
Robots, toys 
come together 
for conference
Finally, the Carnegie Mellon Robotics 
Institute will get to show the lighter side 
of the future of robotics and artificial 
intelligence. During the weekend of 
April 30-May 1, the Robotics Institute 
will host the first Workshop on 
Interactive Robotics and Entertainment 
(WIRE 2000).
The workshop, hosted in cooperation 
with the American Association for 
Artificial Intelligence, will represent the 
first strategic meeting of robotics and 
artificial intelligence researchers with 
the multi-billion dollar toy industry. The 
goal of the workshop is to examine the 
growing relationship between the two 
fields and how that relationship will 
affect the two groups in the future.
The two-day workshop will feature 
notable robotics researchers from all 
over the world as well as some of the 
biggest names in the entertainment 
industry, including Mattel chief strate
gist Doug Glen, MGA Entertainment 
CEO Isaac Larian, and Probotics Inc. 
CEO Henry Thorne. Representatives of 
the research field include Ian Horswill, 
director of the Autonomous Robot 
Laboratory at Northwestern University, 
and Hans Moravec, principal research 
scientist at Carnegie Mellons Research 
Institute.
courtesy Professor Tucker Balch
This Minnow robot is the latest project of 
the Robotics Institute and will be show
cased at the conference.
Events planned for the first day of 
the conference include RobotNight 
(8 to 12 am) which will feature demon
strations of new robotic technologies 
in the realm of entertainment. Exhibits 
scheduled to be shown include totally 
electronic art forms and sculptures, 
new developments in robotic toys, and 
both virtual and physical synthetic 
pets.
The second day of the workshop is 
highlighted by a panel discussion of 
The Future of Entertainment Robots.
Complete information regarding the 
schedule of the conference and invited 
speakers and demonstrators can be found 
at http://www.cs.cmu.edu/-trb/wire/.
NSA designates 
CMU as Center 
of Excellence
Carnegie Mellon recently became 
one of seven universities across the 
United States to be named as a 
Center of Academic Excellence in 
Information Assurance Education by 
the National Security Agency for the 
year 2000.
With the designation, Carnegie 
Mellon also became.eligible to take part 
in the Scholarship for Service Program 
developed by President Clinton in 
January 2000. Under the program, the 
federal government will fund under
graduate and/or graduate studies meet
ing certain information assurance 
requirements (http://www.ciao.gov). 
Students who receive funding from the 
program will also be required to fulfill a 
predetermined amount of service to the 
federal government.
The official announcement of the des
ignation will take place during the 
Fourth Annual Conference of the 
National Colloquium for Information 
Systems Security Education at the Doyle 
Hotel in Washington, D.C. May 23-25. 
Other universities to earn the designa
tion are Florida State University, 
Information Resources Management 
College, National Defense University, 
Naval Postgraduate School, Stanford 
University, University of Illinois at 
Urbana-Champaign, and the University 
of Tulsa.
The NSA established the Centers of
Academic Excellence in Information 
Assurance Education Program in an 
effort to promote higher education in 
information assurance, and increase the 
number of individuals with this exper
tise.
More information about the Centers of 
Academic Excellence in Information 
Assurance Education Program can be 
found at http://www.nsa.gov:8080/isso/.
The 2000 edition of the Carnegie
Robots toss 
beanbags in 
competition
Mellon Mechatronics competition will 
be held on Monday, May 1 at 2:30 pm in 
the Connan Room of the University 
Center.
Entrants in the competition are robots, 
designed by teams of three Carnegie I 
Mellon undergraduate students. The j 
three-person teams consist of one elec- ! 
trical and computer engineering major, 
one mechanical engineering major, and 
one student either majoring in computer 
science or working with the robotics 
institute.
This years competition is for the 
mechanism constructed by the students 
to be able to toss small beanbags across 
the room as well as catch a beanbag 
thrown by another robot. The competi
tion is broken down into three rounds. 
In the qualifying round, entrants must 
be able to toss a beanbag into a threefoot square target area located ten feet 
away.
Robots that successfully complete the' 
toss move on to the elimination round 
where they compete directly with anoth
er entrant in a volleyball-style game of 
catch. The first competitor to either drop 
the beanbag or fail to throw into the tar
get area is eliminated.
Survivors of the elimination round 
move on to the finals where they are 
placed in a mechatronic kinetic sculp
ture and must pass the beanbag from 
one area to another. Special awards, 
will also be given out for longest throw,' 
most aesthetic robot, best sound! 
effects, and other miscellaneous cate
gories.
Compiled by 
Matt Brun
IMMIGRATION LAW 
GREEN CARDS-EMPLOYMENT VISAS- POST GRADUATE RESEARCH EMPLOYMENT 
20 YEARS EXPERIENCE 
ATTORNEY S. SANFORD KANTZ 
724-658-2313
1-800-533-9210http://www.logan.edu1851 Schoettler Rd.  Chesterfield. MO 63017 
Phone: (314) 227-2100  FAX: (314) 207-2425 
loganadm@logan.edu
An Equal Opportunity Institution of Higher Education
Oakland 
414 S. Craig Street 
687-6100
MacOS version 8.5,8.6, or 9.0. Both systems 
need at least 64 MB of RAM, 105 MB of 
available hard-disk space, a CD-ROM drive, 
and video card that supports 800x600 or 
greater monitor resolution. Illustrator 9 
looks promising and CMU students can 
look forward to experiencing it first hand in 
September when cluster computers are 
upgraded to the new version.
Illustrator 9's refined interface extends the look and feel of many of 
Adobe's standardized command menus, toolbox, palettes, and 
keyboard shortcuts. Illustrator also brings more support for a number 
of exportable features, such as layers, transparency, blending modes, 
editable text, and filters, making it easier to move between Adobe's 
suite of print and web programs. And, as a result of the PDF format's 
increasing popularity, Illustrator's native file format is now Adobe 
Portable Document Format (PDF), making it easier to prepare these 
compact files for distribution.
VISUALIZEYOUR FUTURE AS A CHIROPRACTIC PHYSICIAN
3@!n' @ggbS,R
 Prominent, outstanding faculty.
 A strong tradition of academic 
excellence and student success.
 Modern state-of-the-art facilities.
 Financial aid to approximately 
90% of our students.
 Hands-on clinical experiences. 
Logan also ofFers a B.S. in Human 
Biology and an Accelerated Science 
Program (ASP).
Prepare for an exciting career in health care.
UPS Authorized Shipping Outlet
MAIL BOXES ETC.'
WE SHIP 
ANYTHING, 
ANYWHERE
DOMESTIC OR INTERNATIONAL
SHIPPING
PACKAGING
OVERNIGHT
I PACKING 
! SUPPLIES

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  APRIL 24, 2000
Library of Congress will not 
digitize books anytime soon
WASHINGTON, DC - The Librarian of 
Congress, James Billington, gave an 
address at the National Press Club on 
Friday, April 14, on the role of the 
Library of Congress in the Information 
Age. He harshly criticized the Internet, 
and stated that the Library will not dig
itize books. However, the Library has 
plans to expand its Web publication of 
other materials.
So far, the Internet seems to be large
ly amplifying the worst features of tele
visions preoccupation with sex and vio
lence, semi-literate chatter, shortened 
attention spans, and near-total sub
servience to commercial marketing, 
said Billington.
. Billington said that the Library of 
Congress has plans to unveil a new Web 
site. We hope it will realize one of the 
earliest promises of the Internet: to put 
the Library of Congress at the fingertips 
of every boy and girl where they live. 
But then he followed up by stating 
that we are not digitizing books, but 
bringing hitherto little used, specially 
formatted materials like maps and 
recordings. He added that the new 
Web site is not replacing our tradition
al print library.
He said that the Library of Congress 
now has 28 million items in its print col
lection, and 119 million items in all for
mats. Its Web site currently contains 3 
million primary documents, including 
drafts of the Gettysburg Address, 19th 
century baseball cards, and forgotten 
music.
Billington elaborated on why the 
Library will not put books online during 
the question and answer session. The 
rationale is twofold. We have so much 
special format material that nobody has 
seen that it is more important to get 
those out. He added that the Library is 
more concerned with rare pamphlets 
than full books.
Secondly, behind this ... is an implic
it belief [that books] are not going to be 
replaced, and should not be replaced. 
There is a difference between turn
ing pages and scrolling down, he said. 
There is something about a book that 
should inspire a certain presumption of 
reverence.
We should be very hesitant - that 
you are going to get everything you
want electronically. You dont want to 
be one of those mindless futurists," said 
Billington, who sit in front of a lonely 
screen.
It is isolating. It is a lonely thing. In 
contrast, libraries are places, a commu
nity thing. It is dangerous to promote 
the illusion that you can get anything 
you want by sitting in front of a comput
er screen. He described this as arro
gance and hubris.
He added that while electronic books 
may succeed commercially, they are 
seductive.
Tech Law Journal asked Billington if 
there is any parallel between hostility 
to the printing press in the late 15th 
and early 16th centuries, and hostility 
to the Internet today. He stated that 
there is, but that there is also a signifi
cant difference. Billington explained 
that some of the hostility to the print
ing press originated because cheap 
reproduction made books and pam
phlets available to more people. 
Previously, only kings and an elite few 
had access to libraries. The printing 
press made the public library possible. 
Billington stated that in contrast, pub
lic libraries are a political institution 
today.
He also stated that the Reformation 
was largely fought with the printing 
press, and that media revolutions pro
voke intense debate.
Billington was also asked whether 
public libraries which provide Internet 
access for their patrons should use fil
tering software. He responded that we 
dont provide an answer.
However, he elaborated that there 
should be no question that the tradition 
of free public libraries ... is the absolute 
platform of essentiality for our democ
racy. Furthermore, in public libraries 
there is an inherent adversity to cen
sorship.
He said that at the Library of 
Congress, the focus is to provide an 
example of the good. In contrast, if the 
government gets into defining the bad, 
you get onto the slippery slope of defin
ing the bad.
He added that communities should 
be free to decide.
Source: Tech Law Journal
Upcoming Science Events and Lectures
lrnibe-Business Opportunities and Software Challenges
April 24, 4:00 pm
Scaife Hall Auditorium
Stuart Feldman, Director, IBM Institute for Advanced Commerce
This talk will discuss some of the major trends in electronic 
commerce and the practical issues and software research chal
lenges they raise. The explosive growth of electronic com
merce and of new business models presents many opportuni
ties for experimentation and success. New structures are form
ing, new ways of interacting are now possible and are likely to 
be essential.
Complex marketplacesVwill replace simple Web sites, multi
party negotiations and ad hoc groupings will replace simple cat
alog sales, efficient specialists will flourish. Business processes 
will be more widely distributed and their associations will be 
more dynamic. As a result, software will be central to the new 
enterprise.
Even today some e-commeice companies are little more than 
software and a web of legal contracts. Systems will be businesscritical, highly distributed, dynamically configured, requirements 
will change rapidly and frequently be poorly understood, yet there 
will be severe performance and security demands.
Feldman did his academic work (BA, Princeton and PhD, MIT) 
in astrophysics and mathematics.. He was a computer science 
researcher at Bell Labs and a research manager at Bellcore before 
joining IBM in mid-1995. At IBMs T.J. Watson Research Center, 
Feldman leads a department doing research, in a wide variety of net
work-related technologies and application enablers, including paral
lel databases., e-commerce, anti-virus, and advanced multimedia. He 
is also the director of IBMs Institute for Advanced Commerce, an 
organization created to increase IBMs connections to the outside 
research world as well as to accelerate creation of new technologies 
for support of e-Business.
Gravitational Waves and Gamma-Ray Bursts
April 24, 4:30 pm
7500 Wean Hall
Sam Finn, Pennsylvania State University
In their detailed observations of pulsar PSR1913 + 16, Taylor 
and collaborators have shown that gravitational waves, in the 
form predicted by Einsteins theory of general relativity, exist. 
The ability to detect directly the effect of gravitational waves on 
laboratory instruments provides new opportunities for learning 
about the cosmos. In this talk they will discuss a way to use grav
itational wave detectors to learn about the internal energetics of 
gamma-ray bursts.
After first reviewing the nature of gravitational radiation and 
discussing the status and expected capabilities of the large 
detectors now under construction, they will turn to consider 
gravitational waves from gamma-ray bursts, showing how - 
despite our complete ignorance of the radiation waveform - 
they can still hope to determine the strength of the radiation 
emitted.
Einsteins Unfinished Symphony: Listening for
Gravitational Waves
May 4, 4:30 pm
Mellon Institute second floor auditorium, 4400 Fifth Ave.
Barry Barish, California Institute of Technology
Physicist Barry Barish, whose work on the Laser Interferometer 
Gravitational-Wave Observatory (LIGO) promises to open an entire
ly new window on the universe where scientists can listen for the 
sounds of gravitational waves from distant cosmos.
Internationally regarded as a leader in the field of elementary par
ticle physics, Barish is the Maxine and Ronald Linde professor of 
physics at the California Institute of Technology and the director of 
LIGO. At LIGO, he has led a team of scientists and engineers from 
Caltech and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in the con
struction of two large facilities that will be used for the detection and 
study of gravitational waves from astrophysical sources.
In 1918, Albert Einstein said his equations of general relativity pos
sess solutions for describing wavelike undulations of the gravita
tional field. These gravitational waves are actually ripples in the fab
ric of space and time produced by violent events in the distant uni
verse that travel to Earth, bringing with them information about 
their violent origins and about the nature of gravity. Now for the first 
time using LIGO, Barish says experiments are poised to test 
Einstein's longstanding predictions.
This lecture is funded under the auspices of the Buhl Professorship 
in Theoretical Physics, which was established at Carnegie Mellon in 
1961 by The Buhl Foundation in support of an outstanding theoreti
cal scientist who would both have an impact on theoretical research 
and help establish directions for experimental investigations.
Algorithms in the Real World
May 25-26
University '.tenter
Speakers from around the world will converge on Carnegie Mellons 
campus at the end of May to discuss algorithms and their applications. 
Interesting algorithms arise in many industrial applications in a wide 
variety of areas. Getting a better understanding of where and how 
these algorithms are used can be valuable in many ways. It can help 
the algorithms community teach algorithms by supplying up-to-date 
examples of the contexts in which algorithms are used. It can help us 
sell algorithms to industry and the funding agencies by making it 
easier for them to explain how the algorithms are relevant to them, or 
perhaps how a competitor is already using similar techniques.
This understanding can help motivate new problems to consider, or 
can improve our understanding of the models and the assumptions we 
make in various problem domains. It can give a better feeling of what 
it takes to have industry use our algorithms, and it can help us better 
understand what factors are important in the design of algorithms.
The speakers will consist of mix of researchers in academia who 
have interacted with people in industry or worked on industrial 
applications, and industry people who are using algorithms in their 
work. The speakers will cover a variety of application areas, 
although the topics are certainly not meant to be comprehensive.
CHALLENGING PROGRAMMING 
POSITIONS IN BRAIN IMAGING
University of Pittsburgh neuropsychology 
group seeks strong C/C++ and/or Java 
programmer to develop state-of-the-art 
brain imaging tools. Positions involve user 
interface, statistical, image processing and 
systems programming in Unix environment.
Contact Eugene Tseytlin at (412) 624-7070 
tseytlin@pitt.edu
ves nmasmb9itd
Business Incubator
 Individual Offices
 1800 sqf Suite
 6000 sqf Suite
Internet Ready with Fiber 
Optic Lines
Call: 431-8200, Peter Smerd 
Boulevard Building, Inc.
myS4i wO:b(412) 734-2662
694 Lincoln Avenue  Pittsburgh, PA 15202
Daily, Weekly, & Monthly Rates
5405 Fifth Avenue  Pittsburgh, PA 15232  shadysideinn.com  (412) 441-4444
A Suite for Less Than a Hotel Room
Elegantly furnished one or two bedroom suites with equipped kitchens, cable TV, VCR, free local phone, parking and located a few steps from Walnut Street shopping.
Help with 
expenses
 Free, 
confidential 
counseling
Choose the 
plan that Tits 
you best
s0L U T10
When youre pregnant, 
sometimes all you can 
think of are the problems. 
Well help you find 
the solutions.
Bethany
CHRISTIAN SERVICES /
www.bethany.org

---------------------------------------------------

University Center 
Kirr Commons
mhm
Don 
your

---------------------------------------------------

Buy back your memories
1. Cut Along Dotted Lines.2. Order Yearbook.Remember Why Yoi\spent $100,000 ToGo Here.
2000 Thistle Yearbook Orderform
Please Print or Type.\ LAST NAME INITIAL
Full Name
Andrew User ID (if applicable)@ a\drew. cmu.edu
Permanent Phone Number l
School Phone Number
Do not use the student's campus or local adress since the book is sent during summer.
Street Address
City\
City/Country Code(For intematidal orders only.)
State~] zip  - X
Year (if applicable) First Year Sophomore Junior Senior\tifth Year Other_
I would likeBooks at $55 each for a total of
Send a check or money order payable to: 
Carnegie Mellon Mail to:
Thistle Yearbook Orders University Center Box 83 5000 Forbes Avenue Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Please keep a pwtocopy of this form for yo^- records.
CMU Department Charge Amount Number:
For sta ff use only
theTHISTLE
.RRR
Why?
Because youre a senior/junior/sophomore/first-year/5th year/grad student (chdps^one) who wants to remember the four 
years or more that youve spent on this campus. Dont think youll be featured in tfe yearbook? Contact the Thistle to submit 
a picture of your organization, team, dorm room or event.
When?
All orders must be received by May 5th. After that, youre outta luck.
Who?
You, your parents, other relatives or anyone can order a yearbook. To avoid duplicate okers, please consult other potential 
buyers (and maybe theyll buy it for you anyway!)
How? \
Cut out the above order form and drop it off with your payment at the University Center ]W> Desk for Box 83.
How much?
The cost of the 2000 Thistle is $55 (this includes PA state sales tax). Only cold hard cash ancchecks made payable to 
Carnegie Mellon are accepted for payment.
I still dont understand
Contact us at thistle@andrew.cmu.edu or call 412-268-2121.

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment
24 April 2000THE TARTANPage Lll
Momos Horoscopes
Momo Starbuck
Hello darlings. Momos in a great mood this 
j week. I just bought a juicer, and I am just filled with 
| the luscious energy of life! Or maybe thats just the 
vodka I mixed in with my tomato juice, I dont 
know. Anyway, this is the last time you guys will 
hear from me for the whole freakin summer, so 
youd better pay rapt attention. I dont want to come 
back from my vacation to find that youve all ruined 
your social lives, gotten arrested for indecent expo
sure, and been disowned by your families. For Gods 
sake, Im an astrologer, not a miracle worker.
Taurus
(April 20-May 20)
After the recent stock market crash, perhaps 
youve learned that its not always wise to stick 
with your bullish nature. Have you ever read a 
fairy tale where the tough, one-toothed bully 
gets the .gilTand lives happily ever after? Or 
where the overly demanding, whiny princess 
finds the huM of-love prince and rides off into 
the sunset? Of course not! Happiness is short
lived when you beat everyone into submission. 
Sure, you can drag the princess home kicking 
and screaming and then tie her up and make her 
yours, but the novelty soon wears out. Trust 
Momo on that one.
Gemini
(May 21-June 21)
Okay, Gem. So youre outrageous. Truly, truly, 
truly outrageous. But theres no need to flaunt it 
everywhere you go. Id get rid of the neon green 
bikinis and the leopard print Speedos this sum
mer, kids. Try being,conservative for once in your 
lives. Ill admit theie was once a time in my life 
where I, too; loved tp strut around Miami Beach 
wearing nothing but Saran Wrap and a.smile, but 
those days are .over. How can I smile now that Im 
covered in wrinkles and liver spots? Ini so dry 
andflakey I leave dandruff on my garter belt. So 
take it from Momo  take it off when youre 
indoors.
Cancer
(June 22-July 22)
Some of you kids will be graduating this year 
and heading off to the real world. This general
ly means no more drunken summers in your parents old Winnebago off the coast of Marthas 
Vineyard. Bui heres a good pice of advice for 
you working people. Birds always ifly south when 
the tides are high. The grasshoppers jump when 
the ground is Joo hot. And jUrtipihg beans dont 
really jump iheyre infested.^ith insects. Make 
sense of that and you know youve got a few more 
days to waitf^jntiJ/you can" take p'ur mandatory 
substance screening.
Leo
(July 23-August 22)
Life has been letting.you down lately, Leo. And 
since Ill be gone the whole summer, I wont be 
here to pick you up. So heres what you gotta do. 
First, join a salsa .band. Do you ever see a 
depressed bongo player? No. Second, buy a cart
load of Hawaiian shirts. Life is always better in 20 
different colors. And third,; quit Hitting on the 
geriatrics! Its true that the older folk tend to be 
more experienced, but there comes a time when 
foreplay turns irito an excavation, and you dont 
want to be wasting your precious youth.
Virgo
(August 23-September 22)
Virgo, your roots are showing. Your sunkissed look is looking morike you fell asleep in 
a bucket of bleach. This summer is all about aunaturale, my friends. Skip the Sun-In and go for 
the Sun. There haye'Been recentstudies done on 
the effects fbleach on the brain, and its been 
proved that-^Blondes only-* think "theyre having 
more fun. So dont be/ooled. Your life still sucks.
Libra
(September 23-October 23)
Libra, let me help soothe your tortured soul. 
Lifeguards are supposed  to be staring at the 
water. It doesnt mean theyre not interested in 
you. To catch that hunk on the 10 foot chair, try 
this fail-proof tactic: That'itsy-bitsy teeny-weeny 
yellow polka-dot bikini will really .get his atten
tion if you tie*it\to  stick and wave if from about 
35 feet from the 'shore. Just watch th undertow.
Scorpio
(October 2-November 21)
Some say your bite is^worse than your bark. 
Bravo, my friends! Way to keep.mxon their toes. 
But something to keep in mind when scoping out 
your next victim: Its/!still not polite to smack a 
lady. Hugs, hot drugs: Mkke love, not war. Its 
just as dark outside the closer as it is inside. Dont 
be a menace to society. The grass is always green
er. So, you can be an angry bastard, but choose 
your weapons 'wisely. I know we cant all get 
along.
Sagittarius
(November 22-December 21)
In the immortal words of New Kids on the 
Block:
Oh oh oh oh oh.
Oh oh oh 6h. \
Oh oh oh oh oh. i j
The right tuff./ J
Now, they knew What to do when they were in 
therecdrdingstudioandforgotthejwords to their 
own song. You can do the same./Sometimes the 
biggest mistakes/mjake the^ost obnoxious 
teenage fans.
Capricorn
(December 22-January 19)
Do you remember those Sweet Valley High 
books? Everything you need to know about life is 
in those books. Conflict resolution, parental dif
ferences, dealing with inflated egos, hair care, 
fashion obsessions 77-.,theyve got it all. Take a few 
tips from those savvy twins.. Everything can be 
solved in 12 chapters, but ohly if you live in 
California. j \
Aquarius
(January 20-FebruaryT8)
Did I tell you about', my Easter dinner? Oy, it 
was a feast. Diibkee'onions/corned beef, turkey 
stuffed with matzoh balis. Oh, it was delish. All 
my friends and family were there,' and.my new 
lover Ricardo was playing^foptsie with me the 
whole evening/ Then, all/ of a sudden /my Ricki 
keels over into his: plate of mashed potatoes and 
chopped Hver. -Fdrensics say it Was the turkey, but 
I think it was the onions. Take it from Momo  
you cant serve Easter, dinner from a can.
Pisces
(February 19-March 20)
All rightI want to publicly dismiss a common 
myth about mermaids. They dont exist. Well, 
they do, but not like'thair^hefery wench Ariel on 
The Little. Mermaid: Do you honestly think that 
you carfli^e in;rp$<y salt-water witipgrime and 
lobsters and then miraculoiisljtaifce Up out of the 
sea with .a* glowing complexion and soft, silky 
hair? I think npt! So, all yc^fiomy^single men 
out there going deep sea fishing, youd better be 
fishing for swordfish, or your^going to come up 
empty-handed-. Oh,ithey cant sing either. I want 
to be where the peopleare;;niy arse.
Aries
(March 21-April 19)
So, Im making my way through the Kama 
Sutra the other night, when I was;distracted by 
the weather report. Showers, high,<pOs, whatever. 
But the weather man V^.ooh baby! Ill bet that 
man has a jet stream Kkerio other i|So, youre say
ing to yourself, "What does5 this"ffave to do with 
me?" Nothing! Do yoU'thinfeyetiything revolves 
around you? Maybe thats your problem. The 
world doesnt revolve around your twelfth of the 
population, you know. Relax. And if youve got 
your own copy of the Kama Sutra, Id recommend 
page 179. Looks great for the knees.
New Music
Anarchy strikes again
Bv?f'IV1f'
D
f
Album Title: What You See Is What 
You Get 
Artist: Chumbawamba
Label: Universal Records__________
| ???? 
out of five stars 
by Beth Powell
Assistant Entertainment Editor
Maybe youre an anarchist. Maybe 
you just have problems with certain 
things, such as our obsession with liv
ing our lives via computer, the dumb
ing down of America, or the obsession 
with good looks, going on in the world 
lately. If so, youll at least be amused by 
the newest album from 
Chumbawamba, What You See Is What 
You Get. You might even be inspired to 
go out and change the world after 
reading the jacket.
The punk group, best known for the 
single Tubthumping, covers a wide 
range of styles and topics in an effort to 
get their ideas out to the general pub
lic. Theres a good mix of tempos from 
the faster Im With Stupid to the 
slow, ballad-like The Standing Still.
Youll recognize the tunes to some of 
the songs, such as Hey Hey Were the 
Junkies (no, it doesnt have anything 
to do with drugs, rather our addiction 
to television shows) and Knickers 
(Theres a hole in your knickers dear 
Calvin, dear Calvin....), but the group 
wrote about 99% of the album. And, of 
course, Chumbawamba has a much 
fuller band, including such instru
ments as the flugelhorn and steel gui
tar, than a lot of the groups the tunes 
were borrowed from. This combined 
with the help of new technology gives 
the tunes a fresh and original sound.
The group uses its music to spread its 
ideas about anarchy, anti-capitalism, 
and reasons for these positions. Pass It 
Along tells the story of everyones 
dependency on computers has allowed 
people to stay inside their safe homes 
and never really come into contact 
with people. The lyrics to WWW Dot 
speak for themselves: I blew up the 
world! With a W and a W and a W dot. 
There are also songs that comment on 
advertising, the fake world of show 
business (Thank you all through this 
flood of tears he lie lie lie....), dumb
ing down, and the causes of problems 
with self-identity.
If you think that we are all too computer-dependent and obsessed with 
fame and fortune, or that the take-over 
of the press and the advertising indus
try should be viewed as a bad thing, 
this album will really speak to you. If 
not, it will at least make you think.
I dont know if capitalism is to 
blame for all the problems in the 
world or if anarchy is the solution, but 
the album was good music and I 
found it amusing.
Album lacks consistency
Album Title: 000 
Artist: The Delta 72 
Label: Touch and Go
lining
out of five stars
by Greg Nofi
Entertainment Editor
It seems that whenever the Delta 72 
is mentioned, the Jon Spencer Blues 
Explosion is also brought up later in 
the sentence. This is a good compari
son for describing the flavor of rock on 
the Delta 72s latest effort, 000. But it 
doesnt take long to realize where the 
sounds of these two bands begin to dif
fer. The biggest distinction is the 
Hammond B-3 Organ that is part of the 
Delta 72 foursome. It gives the band an 
acid jazz edge at spots, but usually it 
just supplements their fiery guitar riffs.
Right off with the first track, Are 
You Ready?, 000 begins with a power
ful, energetic build-up that gets your 
blood pumping. Then comes the big 
disappointment: the vocals begin to
kick in. Dont get me wrong, it isnt that 
Gregg Foremans singing is bad. 
Rather, his vocals are just a bit sloW 
and they substantially bring down the 
speed of the music. While this isnt hor
rible by itself, another weird aspect 
shows up: background singing by two 
Gospel singers. This element simply 
makes the song too tedious to rock to.
Perhaps the band felt the same way 
about the first song and decided to 
change things up for the next part of 
the album. There is a noticeable 
decrease in intensity on the next two 
songs, The Doctor Is In! and Just 
Another Let Down. These songs have 
more of a laid-back, 70s rock feel and 
the organ is at its soulful best here.
But the beat picks up again for the 
next two songs, 3 Day Packet Plan 
and Incident @ 23rd. These two 
pieces serve up some great, flat-out, 
fervent rock-and-roll. This treat 
includes some speedy acoustic guitar 
playing on the former track by Royal 
Truxs Neil Haggerty. Foremans 
singing is used intermittently and thus 
produces better results. However, he 
decides to go back to heavier singing 
on half of the remaining tracks, with 
some more vocals by those damned 
Gospel singers.
It all ends with Sun the Secret 
Prince, which features five minutes of 
electric piano distortion. This track is 
probably the symbolic feeling of this 
album: fun, but not consistent with the 
good parts of the CD. 000 will tease 
you with some kickass rockin ener
getic tunes. Even though the other 
songs arent slow, they just arent as 
powerful as you think they could be, 
leading to a bit of disappointment.
Cheap Movies(for cheap students)
movies you may have seen before
BY ANDY FRANCIS
Yes, for the first time, its the H&SS Film Festival, and 
you know what that means. Because I sure as hell dont. 
What I can tell you is that the festival theme is Work in 
Progress: A Festival of Steel, Sweat, and Cinema, the films 
are mostly documentaries and dramas, the showings are 
in McConomy, and at first glance, I have heard of fully 
40% of these flicks. Also: theres some incentive to read 
this article  Im prepared to give away as many as $17 
($1 per film) to ambitious readers. Read on.
Valley Town, Women of Steel, and 
Struggles in Steel
Thursday, April 27, 7:00 pm
Three short ones about steelworkers. Valley focuses 
on unemployed Pittsburgh ones, Women on female 
ones, and Struggles on African-American ones. $1 for 
holding your breath through the 12 minute opener, $1 
for not whistling at the ladies in the second, and $1 if 
you decode this columns secret message.
Flashdance
Thursday, April 27, 10:30pm
Three words: Jennifer Beals. Before such megahits as 
Terror Stalks the Class Reunion, a movie so good they 
only showed it on television, she starred as that old film 
clich: exotic dancer/steelworker. $1 if you can get that 
What a Feeling song out of your head afterwards.
Passaic Textile Strike
Friday, April 28, 2:30pm
$1 to anyone who sees this 1926 picture and joins the 
Communist Party. And does my laundry. Naked.
Modern Times, On the Waterfront, 
and Blue CoUar
Friday, April 28, at 6:30 pm, 8:30 pm, and 10:30 pm
Blue Collar is about three autoworkers (all-star cast 
Richard Pryor, Harvey Keitel, and Yaphet Kotto) who try 
to rob their local union. Academy Award titan On the 
Waterfront stars Marlon Brando, who delivers the 
famous line, I could have been a contender. I can imag
ine the annoying pre-Oscar headlines that year: Brando 
contends for Best Actor, etc. Also showing is Charlie 
Chaplains 1936 slapstick classic Modern Times. $1 for 
explaining where the phrase blue collar is from, $1 for 
the best Godfather impression, and $1 for my homies.
Target Shoots First and Cold Call
Saturday, April 29 at 5 pm
Target Shoots First and Cold Call are recent satires of 
working culture. Target was filmed one scene a day on a 
Hi-8 by young Columbia House employee Chris Wilcha 
and Cold is the tale of a car salesman who boozes, loses, 
and telemarkets. $1 for filming me once a day and $1 
for buying anything from a telemarketer.
Roger and Me and Fast, Cheap, and 
Out of Control
Saturday, April 29 at 9:30 pm and 11:15 pm
Roger and Me, Michael Moores pre-Rage Against the 
Machine, anti-GM, rabble-rousing effort and Fast 
Cheap, and Out of Control, Errol Morris look at some 
American eccentrics, round out the Saturday films. $1 
to anyone who provides me with a copy of the TV Nation 
episode where Michael Moore sneaks Canadians across 
the border, and $1 to your mother.
Harlan County, USA, Norma Rae, and 
October Sky
Sunday, April 30 at 7pm, 9pm, and 11 pm
Barbara Kopples Harlan County, USA leads off this 
trio of Sunday films with an incisive documentary about 
a violent 70s Kentucky coal miner strike. Harlan was 
named #1 Documentary Ever Made by Entertainment 
Weekly. In Norma Rae, the titular (this is seriously a real 
word) character (Sally Field) tries to unionize the 
Alabama textile mill where her and them folks get their 
work on. 1998s October Sky deals with Homer Hickam, 
a young boy in the 1950s who, overcome by the irony of 
living in a coal mining town named Coalwood (cre
ative much?), devotes himself to building rockets. The 
grand prize of $3 goes to anyone who builds me a rock
et out of coal and textiles.

---------------------------------------------------

THAT FAKE ZiT ON 
YOUR CHIN / IT'S 
So BiG... Af WHiTE. 
So PERFECTLY 
teralrhevaooo
ok, I sei ysAu dea 
dngA m cnwt, b
dfla3h mf1 37ppfxvo
EVERY YEAR THEY ALWAYS 
GET BRoKEN INTO AND 
EATEN BEFoRE THE BlG 
vea3ho o
.flpivEh Ffl 
zSAy TELL 
THE KiDS 
NOT To
yfl.3 ysuBPo
IT'S NoT THE 
KIDS I'M HIDING 
THEM m2f6o
IVE BEEN To EVERY 
HALLoWEEN SToRE IN 
yfxv LOOKING FoR 
Af6h3eva pe4
THAT FoR MY
i.7Feva .f18r 
.frhl6T
ABouT ,fl1 
f1 is tuAe2u yf
THAT A BE A
REAL 2IT? CORPSE...
GET
WHAT?
OH, MAN -
WHERE'D You 
GET THAT?/
WoW. THIS MUST YOU CUT 
BE SCARIER THAN HOLES IN 
I THOUGHT. 6F wuO
X RALPHm-------LAUREN
/ SHEETS/
h3e1 Af6h3eva
BlkES?? WRONG 
\ WITH THAT?
WHERE'S HE AND MARCuS 
JASoN? RoDE THEIR
- de4r fC1
To THE 
I GROCERY
VI Qh STORE.
HOW CAN THEY I DIDN'T 
BRING GROCERIES SAY 
HOME THAT WAY ? THEY 
N WERE
r I  BUYING
m On ANYTHING
OK, IT LooKS UKE CAN You 
MRS.DEFALCo-S BELIEVE 
pf7ieva up fv Af6 4eir 
Bbwb SNICKERS ACTUALLY 
AND SMARTiES. TRicK-oR- 1 TREAT AT
( ^ RANDOM?
AAA A A
1999 EJ m-aont tv Unntiul Pros SrvJuli
MY BROTHER, 
THE 
HALL0WEEN1E.
NoTE How I 
USED THE PUMPKiM 
G00P FoR 
BRAINS.
AAA A.7 YOU'RE WELL,
So CUTE! HERE, 1F0UR 
TAV:E all my mother---------CANDY/ lS ^ ;;f;
- SORT OF CALL.
BAROMETER... I
I THOUGHT You 
WERE PLANNING 
To Go TRiCK - 
OR-TREATING 
AS DARTH MAUL.
I'M A 
BEANIE 
BABY.
HEY, PETER - WHAT ARE 
CHECK OUT You?
THIS COSTUME 1
IDEA. I
I WAS, BUT 
I'VE HAD A 
LAST-MiNuTE 
REVELATION.
WHICH
IS?
by Scott Adams
I GOT HUGE 
SEVERANCE 
PACKAGES FROM 
MY LAST FOUR 
EMPLOYERS.I
IF I GET FIRED 
ONE MORE TIME 
I CAN RETIRE.
I'VE BEEN TAKING A 
SELF-PACED 
ONLINE TRAINING 
COURSE TO "SHARPEN 
MY SAW." I----------------;
HOW
COULD
YOU
NOT
KNOW?!
WHAT PART 
OF"SELFPACED" IS 
CONFUSING 
YOU? I
KEN, WE 
NEED 
TO TALK.
WHAT'S
THE
SUBJECT?I DON'T 
KNOW.
THE COMPANY SADISTI'LL MAKE YOUR 
LIFE MISERABLE! 
I'LL THWART YOUR 
EVERY MOVE!
HI. I'M 
THE NEW 
SADIST.
HE WENT TO
SADIST
PARADISE.
WHAT 
HAPPENED 
TO THE 
OLD ONE?
YES, BUT I'LL DROP 
ONE ON THE FLOOR 
AND HIDE IT WITH 
THE OTHERS. ,--------
THERE'S NO 
AGENDA. IT'S 
JUST SUPPOSED 
TO HURT. / '
YOU'RE INVITED 
TO MY FOUR-HOUR 
MEETING. S-----------THE AUDITING 
DEPARTMENT?ANY
DONUTS?
I LIKE 
THOSE 
ODDS.
THE COMPANY SADISTTHE COMPANY SADISTGAAA! THAT 
E-MAIL INSULTED 
HALF THE PEOPLE 
ON OUR PROTECT!!
THAT'S AN 
INTERESTING 
THEORY ABOUT 
WHY MY HAIR 
IS BROWN, rNOTE FROM THE AUTHORWHAT WAS IN THAT 
BIG BAG I HELPED 
YOU DRAG TO THE 
DUMPSTER? (
I FORWARDED YOUR 
E-MAIL TO EVERYONE
OKAY, SADIST, IT'S 
TIME TO MEET | 
THE FIST OF 
DEATH. ,\rif ^
IF YOU ARE TOE SORT 
OF PERSON WHO IS 
INFLUENCED BY COMIC 
STRIPS, I ASSURE YOU 
NOTHING BAD OR VIOLENT 
HAPPENS NEXT. ALICE 
AND THE SADIST DISCUSS 
THEIR DIFFERENCES AND 
BECOME LIFELONG 
FRIENDS.
la u d isi ,
.Ul VI
GOOD STUFF !
Comics are probably the best thing since sliced bread. 
Since this is the second to last issue you might be 
wondering how comics is still going to remain the incred
ibly exciting section that it has become. Well this week we 
bring you a new comic creation by Chris Rugen. We also 
welcome back the Kweetays after a brief absence last week. 
So you see comics are still very exciting.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  APRIL 24, 2000
left column, WHAT THEY SAY, to the right, WHAT THEY MEAN! 
Funky's even giving you a little help!
J ,-cJit tiL tjOU
/(>/ J juit he frioncL
In youi drea sis 
 v4sk you were dead 
You smell tod 
Itll ife a cold day in'Hell 
'Nice try. iatass 
 need you
1 want Daddy p*
tie, ireak
Its too small \
I was in my bathroom tackling some cold 
hard facts and then I probably fell asleep.
I was only pretending to sleep because I 
wanted to overhear what the cold and hot 
water knobs had to say to each other. I 
have been documenting their recent crisis.
I think real world cold hard reality drama 
is selling like hot cakes these days. Cold is 
furious with hot and I don't think their 
marriage will survive. The 2 towels, lovers 
embrace upon the rack, are the only kind 
souls in my bathroom reeking of despair.
flaw cancer
somcona
Denking danke 
drunken dante, 
itching burning 
switching turning. 
33 prozent, I have .violent intent.
Curse you\ 
Willigan!
Mouwt
wadtch
You watch 
but do you 
understand?Over the Hedge' 
bu Michael Fru & T. Lewisby Michael Fry & T. LewisDu fersehst. aber verstehst du?
The Q-Tips are being abused by my razor, 
and the shampoo hasn't enough money 
to support her 3 children, left 4 years ago 
by the drunken mouth wash. "You really 
can't blame him for being a drunk, always 
33% alcohol", she says to ease the pain.
The wise old toilet brush, always beaten 
down but never broken, is like a real world 
narrator, delivering a tight synopsis each 
week. I plan to use clamation and real 
audio to relate this chilling tale to millions 
of apprehensive tele sets and eager fools.
HOH CAN THEY DO THIS TOMSK
WERE ALL 
BACK HOME SAFE AND SOUND... ALL 
IS RIGHT WITH THE WORLD.
WELL, THANK GOODNESS 
THATS OVER.
"THE 
ORGANIZATION 
OF THINK IE EXPORTING 
COUNTRIES."mm..."O TEC HAS 
INSTITUTEP 
PRODUCTION CEILINGS..:by Joseph Senger
THE TWINKIE SHORTAGE REALLY GOT TO RJ
SUGAR LEVEL... 5ECOMING... 
PANG'ER'OUSL X 
....LOW..,
THE WILLIAM SHATNER 
IMPRESSION... 
ITS A
DESPERATE PLEA FOR HELP.
EVER/THING'S GROWING 
PARK... Z... CANT...
...CANT 
SUMMON,.. THE WILL... 
TO...LIVE,
ORACTING
LESSONS.
4/19/2000
Mow, fct's c.kt s warm wticawi -to 
Ms -HcAscr artd Ker av-tfirv. davaoe. pcotfes!0 2000Unlle<J Fnuturu Syndicate),
SHHHHHHUSHf DO YOU WANT EVERYBODY TO KNOW?
CALL OUT THE NATIONAL GUARD/.., 
CONVENE A SPECIAL SESSION OF CONGRESS/
7 1 WAlTtK SECOND...^ \ YOU HAVE A\ SECRET STASH
ZN,. OP TWINKIES/
ID SAY ABOUT 
MOO YEARS.
HOOTZ THOUGHT IT WAS AT LEAST 
800/ ILL NEVER 
_ MAKE ITU .
WHAT?1
The Phatmaster
http://phat.res.cmu.edu/phatmaster/I USED 
ORGANIC POIYSOR&ATE fcO.
MAKING 
YOUR OWN TWINKIES TO 
COMBAT THE 
SHORTAGE?
BUT I COULDNT 
FIND ALL THE INGREDIENTS.
/ I DON'T 
/ IMAGINE YOU / CAN GET POL YSORBATE ioO 
AT THE P1GGLY WIGGLY.
IS IT SUPPOSED TO BE GROWING MOLD BEFORE 
m EYES?
I GOT THE 
RECIPE OFF 
THE WEB.WAAAH.
HEY/
YOU HAVE M MORE SECONDS/
EXPIRES APRIL 
20, 2000, 12:55:HS PM
Frne. I know when I'm not wanted. I'll just go play Bomberman now.
I don't need you, I can play against the computer.
Damn, it all comes down to computers, doesn't it? I've alienated myself from the human race through the use of these  soulless automata, frittering my life away whilst they evaluate meaningless expressions in a futile attempt to assign meaning to a meaningless chaos.
It has come to my attention 
that a number of people do not "get" this comic; indeed, that its very presence confounds and 
worries them.
This is why we must all use 
Haskell, as it is a purely 
functional language and therefore does not perform assignment. Any questions?
''Ht'f! WHAT ARE'' 
oewr- HeRe?
Ye Schwieriger Sie Sind Desto Farder Sie Beissen
 Bathroom Humour In The Badezimmer
by: James Kenney (jim@dorkorg.com)lAJbat tkeu Sau...
WhM ttfv
flKli DATS
by MUf6o lin
It's time to play everybody's favorite game! Just match up the

---------------------------------------------------

Calendar
Registration time is upon us once again. Before you get intimate with OLR, 
spend some time learning about your favorite classes and fellow classmates.
24 April 2000 THE TARTAN Page L14
Justin Suissa/Art Editor
Student Films Festival 9 will take 
place this Tuesday and Wednesday at 7:30 
pm, 10 pm, and 12:30 am in McConomy 
Auditorium of the University Center. 
Admission is $2.
The Slip will be playing Tuesday in the 
Morewood Underground at 8 pm. 
Admission is free. This event is sponsored 
by AB Underground and AB Tech.
Work in Progress: A Festival of 
Steel, Sweat and American Cinema
is a film festival running from Thursday 
through Sunday and is organized by stu
dents in a course sponsored by the English 
Department. Highlights include Tony 
Bubas film Struggles in Steel, Flashdance, 
Modern Times, Blue Collar, Norma Rae, and 
October Sky. For more information and a 
complete schedule, see page Lll of this 
weeks Tartan .
Comedian Mitch Hedburg will be 
performing this Friday in Doherty Hall 
2210 at 7 pm. Admission is free.
A Latin American Food Festival will 
be held this Friday at 6 pm in the lobby of 
the College of Fine Arts Building. For infor
mation, email dmkuhn@andrew.cmu.edu.
The University Art Galletys current 
exhibit is titled Drawings in Pen and 
Pencil and features artwork by Hwee Kuan 
Lee. The display runs through May 6. For 
further information, call the UC informa
tion desk at (412) 268-2107.
The Regina Miller Gallery in the
Purnell Center for the Arts will open 
Auto/Visual/Indi/Visible: School of Art 
Faculty Exhibition this Friday. The open
ing reception will be held from 7-10 pm on 
Friday in the gallery. The exhibit will run 
through June 23. The gallery hours are 
Tuesday-Sunday, 11:30 am-5 pm. It is 
closed on Mondays. For more information 
call (412) 268-3618.
Graduate School of Industrial 
Administration Professor Egon 
Balas, author of the new book, A Will to 
Freedom: A Perilous Journey Through 
Fascism and Communism, will have a book 
signing at the Squirrel Hill Barnes & Noble 
tonight at 7 pm.
Great Books of the Century 
Discussion Group will discuss The Fixer 
with author Bernard Malamud this Tuesday 
at 7 pm at the Squirrel Hill Barnes & Noble.
The Three Rivers Quilters 
Millennium Quilt Show will take place 
this Friday and Saturday,10 am to 5 pm, and 
Sunday, 10 am to 4 pm, at the Castle 
Shannon Fire Halls. Admission is $4. The 
show theme is Turn of the Century. For 
more information call (412) 884-6428.
Carnegie Mellons School of Drama
presents The Country Wife on_ April 28-29 
and May 2-5 at the Philip Chosky Theatre in 
the Purnell Center for the Arts. 
Performances begin at 8 pm. A matinee is 
scheduled for this Saturday at 2 pm. For 
more information, contact the Drama box 
office at (412) 268-2407.
The Pittsburgh Public Theater is cur
rently performing Bettys Summer Vacation 
by Christopher Durang through Sunday, 
May 21 at the OReilly Theater downtown. 
For ticket information, call (412) 316-1600.
Carnegie Mellons School of Drama
presents A Funny Thing Happened On The 
Way To the Forum May 3-5 at 8 pm, with 
matinees on Friday, May 5 at 3:30 pm and 
Saturday, May 6 at 2 pm. For more infor
mation, contact the Drama box office at 
(412) 268-2407.voxpopuli
official voice of useless
12:00am on FX is where it's at!
thanks, Joy! -G 
artichoke, asparagus, kale
Never rub another man's rhubarb.
e-kitten.com
No Henderson 
puppet government!
(Whats up, Rita?)
gimme five if you like...
Das Trinkhoni zur hand, 
wie halten wir es dann?
WAUfiUYwe need to make a bonfire
2.5 weeks left until 220 ends!
"Peanuts may come in 
contact with your food
You call me cupcake one more time, and I will bite you.
27+ pages a week., 
but its over.F the WTO!
mummy, he's gone rotten!
sh-t. I dont
oi n ,, know, dawg.Brian Baucher 6
wont be so cocky when there's no more
Jagr's through with him... whipped cream
Chapter 9: Staring off into the horizon, Esqueala saw a 
store which promised to solve all her problems  Orifice 
Depot. Twitching with excitement, she went into Orifice 
Depot and said politely, Td like the finest piggy orifice you've 
got, please." The man behind the counter looked at her in dis
dain. This is Office Depot, not Orifice Depot, you stupid pig," 
he said. We can't help you find an orifice. Esqneala slunk 
away, mortified. In the distance, the man continued: We 
can, however, give you a wonderful deal on paper clips.
caus' it's all over
Vox Populi is a forum open to the entire campus communi
ty! To submit a vox, simply email it to 
taft&i@3n<lmmu.eitu, send it to The Tartan, University 
Center, Box 17 via campus mail, or drop it in the Vox Popuii 
drop box on the slick-looking Tartan server. The comments 
in this box do not reflect the views of The Tartan or anybody in general. It is basically a bunch of gibberish, and if 
anything sounds remotely reai or interesting, then youre
talks/lectures
The Open Your Mind Lecture Series
continues today at 4:30 pm in the Adamson 
Wing of Baker Hall. This presentation is 
titled ExxonMobils Approach to 
Environmental Management and 
Sustainability and will be given by Frank 
B. Sprow, Corporate Vice President of 
Safety, Health, and Environment at 
ExxonMobil. This lecture is co-sponsored 
by the Distinguished Lecture Series of the 
Environmental Institute.
e-business Opportunities and 
Software Challenges,  presented by the 
Department of Electrical and Computer 
Engineering Distinguished Lecture Series, 
is a lecture by Dr. Stuart Feldman, Director 
for the IBM Institute for Advanced 
Commerce, and for the Networked 
Computing Software Research. The lecture 
will be held today from 4 to 5 pm in Scaife 
Hall Auditorium, Room 125. Refreshments 
will be served at 3:30 pm. For more infor
mation, see page L8.
The Annual CMAP Achievement 
Program, Celebrating Excellence, will 
take place this Thursday at 5 pm in Rangos 
Hall of the University Center. AfricanAmerican, Hispanic, and Native American 
students will be recognized for their hard 
work, dedication, and excellence in acade
mics and leadership. Alumna Monica 
Harris, editor-in-chief of Black Expressions, 
is the keynote speaker.
The Center for African-American 
Urban Studies and the Economy 
(CAUSE) presents American Studies pro
fessor Dana Frank of the University of 
California, Santa Cruz. Frank will be pre
senting Thinking and Writing About Race, 
Class, and Gender in U. S. History this 
Friday from 3:30 to 5:30 pm in Porter Hall 
A18A.
museums
The Andy Warhol Museum is current
ly exhibiting Andy Warhol Drawings 
1942-1987. It runs through April 30 and is 
located on 117 Sandusky Street. For more 
information, call (412) 237-8300 or visit 
http://www. warhol. org.
The Three Rivers Arts Festival 
Gallery presents Glenn Kainos Chasing 
Perfect, a collaborative exhibition. The 
exhibit runs through May 13. The gallerys 
hours are Monday through Friday, 11 am to 
6 pm, and Saturday, 2 pm to 7 pm.
The Wood Street Galleries is currently 
presenting an exhibit called Tim Rollins 
and K.O.S., 1981-2000 through May 13. 
Admission to this exhibition is free. The 
gallery is located at 601 Wood Street, 
Downtown. Gallery hours are 11 am to 6 pm 
on Tuesday and Wednesday, and 11 am to 7 
pm from Thursday to Saturday. For more 
information, call (412) 471-5605.
The two main galleries of the 
American Jewish Museum, located at 
5738 Forbes Avenue in Squirrel Hill, are re
created as an island paradise in which 
scores of original documentary pho
tographs, contemporary art, artifacts, 
sculpture, and graphic art will be on exhib
it until Wednesday, May 31.
The Fuzzy Comets, with guests Boys 
From Out of This World, Ritual Space 
Travel Agency, and PlanetGirl, will be per
forming this Tuesday at Rosebud in the 
Strip District. The show begins at 7:30 pm 
and has a $5 cover. For more information, 
call (412) 261-2232.
The Gold Sparkle Band with the 
Levendis Duo will be performing this 
Tuesday in the Kresge Theatre of the 
College of Fine Arts Building at 9 pm. 
Admission is $5 or $3 with CMU ID. For 
information, call (412) 521-3359. A live 
interview with the Gold Sparkle Band will 
take place on WRCT 88.3 FM at 5 pm.
The Coors Concert Series presents
Oasis, with guest Travis, this Tuesday at the 
AJ Palumbo Theatre. The concert will 
begin at 7:30 pm. For tickets call (412) 
323-1919 or contact any Ticketmaster out
let.
Agnostic Front, Shutdown, AntiHeros, and One Man Army will be play
ing this Wednesday at Club Laga, Oakland. 
The show begins at 7 pm and admission is 
$8 in advance and $10 at the door.
The All Mighty Senators will be per
forming at an all-ages show this Friday at 
8:30 pm at the Beehive in Oakland. Tickets 
are $8 reserved and $10 at the door. Other 
guests include Slick Olde Bishop and Cut 
Once.
The Soundbytes will be performing a 
capella music this Friday with the Oberlin 
Offbeats at 8 pm in the Morewood 
Underground. Admission is free.
Catch 22, Ednas Goldfish, and 
Mustard Plug will be playing at Club 
Laga in Oakland this Friday.
Contra Dancing will take place this 
Friday at 8 pm at the Edgewood Club in 
Edgewood. For more information, call 
(412) 731-8661. Admission is $6 and music 
will be provided by Carol Kopp with David 
Knight and Ellen Gozion.
Cuarteto Latinoamericano, quartetin-residence at Carnegie Mellon, will be 
performing Fughetta Spirito, a world pre
miere by Nancy Galbraith, at 3 pm this 
Saturday in the Mellon Institute 
Auditorium. Guitar virtuoso James Ferla 
will join them. Tickets will be sold at the 
door. Prices are $10 for the general public 
and $8 for students and senior citizens. For 
more information, call (412) 268-2383.
A benefit concert to aid Venezuelan 
flood victims will be held this Saturday 
at 7 pm in the Frick Fine Arts Auditorium in 
Oaldand. The concert features members of 
the Carnegie Mellon Philiharmonic and the 
Pittsburgh Youth Symphony Orchestra. 
Tickets are $5 for students and $8 for 
adults. For more information, visit 
h ttp://www. m usicordia. com.
A Renaissance City Winds Concert
will take place this Sunday at 3 pm in the 
Frick Fine Arts building of Oakland. The 
name of the concert is Heavenly Music for 
Harp, Winds, and Voice and will be per
formed by harpist Anne-Marguerite 
Michaud, who joins the winds in perform
ing French impressionist works of Debussy 
and Rasel.
oncampus
yf8 Five States of Origin
1) Pennsylvania: 1,141 undergrads
2) New York: 636
3) New Jersey: 481
4) Maryland; 252
5) Massachusetts: 240
yfi Five Departments (1999)
1) SCS: 547 undergrads
2) Business: 503
3) ECE: 486
4) SDS: 317
5) Architecture: 264
CMU by the numbers!
yf8 Five Countries of Origin
1) United States: 4,691 undergrads
2) India: 67
3) Korea: 60
4) Thailand: 42
5) Singapore: 40
Source:
CMU Facts 2000
and Enrollment Services
Largest Classroom: DH 2210 (278 seats)
Largest Class (Fall 99): Introduction to World History 
(280-310 enrollment)
Most Units: 20 Units, Mathematical Studies I
Most Popular Gym Class (Fall' 99): Aerobic Fitness 29 students
Number of Undergrads with Second Majors in 1995: 394 
Number of Undergrads with Second Majors in 1999: 610
Top 5 Second Majors bv Department (1999)
1) Economics: 95 undergrads
2) Business: 73
3) English: 68
4) MCI: 56
5) Modern Languages: 43
Top 5 Male Percentages bv 
Undergrad Departments 
Physics: 90% male 
ECE: 85.4%
CS: 79.7%
MechE: 76.2%
Econ: 72.1%
Top 5 Female Percentages bv 
Undergrad Departments 
Psychology: 69.7% female 
BHA: 66.7%
English: 63.4%
Music: 59.4%
Modern Languages: 58.8%

---------------------------------------------------

May 1, 2000: The Senior Issue

---------------------------------------------------

sier
.20 :: Issue 00.07 :: HYPER

---------------------------------------------------

We are pleased to announce that Juliet Bey is the winner of 50 smackaroos for her piece "Epiphany #73." We felt it showed not 
only a sense of spectacular creative style but also a poignantly funny narrative. Congratulations Juliet! We are still thinking of 
that "spoiled" Craftmatic.
Its that time of the year when we all find ourselves hyper extended. (We can just see the Bio majors cringing). Spring Break is 
long gone and Carnival was a recent blur of fun. Now its time for the grind: finals and all that. People scrambling for a place to 
work or live or lounge out by the pool at for the summer. We say, take some time to read this issue and, despite the title, which 
may be a perfect* description of your current life situation, relax. Let Dossier take you away...
fts for our crew, we still have another issue coming up. Its the senior issue. Read it too. We like readers. By the way, if you
t
 
EecCp wfuh fe TYlup vea -JJlhaJJTmf hiu5N> vcr> n1vY28EuJW mcIilfCTuP 5, 0 EuJJ2 -emmlha>
feo. tfA lv uahrGfJShrEJ Eh durJaerPJa fe secaJSa9 ahup lvCahxflSCD RJU"?JU5>yDJU >?>? JU JU
Thanksl^ alli0frr submi^jglfrs afe reader^^ou ^pmake |||$ (|g| (||| i|p (|||} (|||
Joey, Mike and Laura
Dossier :: 04:24:00 :: Volume 20Issue 7 :: HYPER

---------------------------------------------------

Joe Valeri, aka Super G, likes to take bong hits and watclit 70s Show every Monday & Tuesday night at 8, 7 central, on Fox
Juliet Bey is a junior Psychology and Creative writing major. She is destined to follow the karmic path of structure. She has had
Mercer Buffer is a junior creative writing major. When he bowls, he consistently breaks 100.
Richard Balcita Torio is a 21-year-old, third-year freshman (I know that doesnt fit the rules, but I dont like rules). Thanks go 
out to the flge of Aquarius, Karen Rigby, and of course, God above. Special thanks to flnette Urbanski and her contagious passion 
for seeds. Much love to my family and friends from Greensburg, Germany, and Fairfax...you all keep me sane, peace luv etc ...
Jesse Kates is guitarist and composer for Whitford, as well as bassist for Stable Stars! His only pet is a dried Peruvian gourd 
named "Ratgourd, who flies nightly at exorbitant speed around the edges of the living room.

---------------------------------------------------

PITTSBURGH, FOUR TIMES, REAL, REAL SHORT
By Anne Ray
#3
The Virtue of the Half-moon Pastry
We park the cars in the sloppy rows of a gravel parking lot. We are at 
Sandcastle, Pittsburgh's water amusement part, a gangley exuberant 
group. It's October and the weather is sunburning us. We, me in partic
ular, are here to eat. Today is the Annual Mon Valley Pierogie Cookoff. 
Pittsburgh's best church gramdmas. Homemade dough. Potatoes. Pop. 
Butter. Oh sweet day.
We walk through an entranceway and buy tickets, then down a little 
path into a short valley lined with shaded by trees and lined with tents. 
The smell of a warm kitchen floods over us. We stop at a tent in the 
shade and buy another small stack of tickets - one serving per ticket, 
50 cents each. Essentially, more food than we can possibly consume 
for five bucks each. Somebody is passing out programs with the list of 
this years entrants.
We'll decide the best. The Holy Virgin Russian Orthodox Church? 
Tamburitzans? The judging will commence.
In the distance, somebody is playing a polka. We stop at the first tent 
and go for the basics. Potato and cheese. I watch as Grandma and 
Granddaughter take our tickets and lay three pierogies in styrofoams 
bowls. With a huge metal spoon, Grandma lifts more melted butter out 
of a tremendous trough of pierogies - she drizzles it over top and I 
start to drool. I have never seen this many pierogies in one place. 
Imagine the effort.
Do I want sour cream? Grandma asks. Yes. The answer is yes. Bring it 
on, sister.
Pierogies I make for myself in my messy kitchen - a little stiff, salty: I 
love them still. You take what you can get, I suppose, when Grandma 
isnt around, the Giant Eagle freezer case will have to suffice. But how 
did I ever manage?
At Tent #2, Grandma #2 has some with mushrooms, or onions, and 
also these incredible fruit pastries that taste a bit like cake but have 
the texture of crepes. I can feel my arteries clog.
At Tent #3, the Holy Virgin Russian Orthodox Church has theirs assem
bly-line style, a huge operation. They're cranking them out. I think they 
must have some underground chamber with all the Mon Valley's piero
gie cooks putting together little masterpieces. That's how theyre made 
- one at a time. Hand-rolled dough, hand mixed potato, formed into 
half-moons by fingers. Such craftsmanship.
More, and more still. Another church has a cabbage and onion dish 
that I imagine fed millions of steelworkers. Sausages, pretzels, home
made cookies, a cold pop. The Church Brew Works has these fancyschmancy chicken pierogies with flavored dough and some kind of 
chutney. I scoff. No chutney on pierogies. Butter. Only butter. I'm a 
fundamentalist.
When we are near the bursting point, somebody buys a couple of iced 
teas and we.sit at a picnic table in the grass. Two people start dancing 
the polka as we lounge and digest. It's sweet and the old folks start to 
smile at us young folks. This feels like a block party, the best kind of 
day off. Sitting in the warm sun, eating and eating.
We stand in the sun and start to eat - a plastic fork cuts each bundle In the end, a guy in a cowboy hat takes the microphone and announces
into pieces. The potato melts in my mouth and the cold sour cream is the Holy Virgin Russian Orthodox Church as the undisputed winner. We
the perfect spice with the sweet butter. I imagine the Mrs. T's cheer from the picnic table. Grandma.
Total Fat 11g17%
Saturated Fat 8g38%
Cholesterol 30mg10%
Sodium 380mg18%
Total Carbohydrate 38g17%
pi

---------------------------------------------------

0. Untitled
Photograph by Tony Chao
1. Illiteracy devices: no point...no resolution
By Rich Torio, designed by Justin Suissa
2. kickitwickidtypamcz
By mad merv, designed by Chris Rugen
3. Last Train to 71st Street
By David Mercer Bufter, designed by Mickey Mayo
4. Epiphany #73
By Juliet Bey, designed by Josh Anderson
9. Whoever dies with the most toys
By Jesse Kates, designed by Michael Zimmer
10. Pittsburgh: 4 times, real, real short
By flnne Ray, Designed by fiblerto Capolino
8. Kindergarten Snow
By Joe Valeri, designed by Daniel Kuo
LITERARY EDITORS:
JoeyTague, Laura Martin
DESIGN EDITOR:
Michael Zimmer
LITERARY STAFF.'
Kristin Gilmore, Alina Mason, 
Jay Denat, Dave Anderson, 
Sabrina Small, Emily Green
DESIGN STAFF:
Daniel Kuo, Graham Hicks, 
Elizabeth Spiridakis, Brian 
Yeung, Greta Polo, Alberto 
Capolino, Hallie Fyrd, Jeff 
Beene, Chris Rugen, Julia 
Tseng, Betty Kim, Lee-Anne 
Stossell, Justin Suissa, Mickey 
Mayo, Josh Anderson.

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

WHOEVERDIESWITH THEMOSTTOYS
By Jesse Kates
WHOE VRD ISTT OI MYctYr 
aEI a EiEO irYE spaEs 
tHO paIIaI arDs Yf Dy wickOr 
lYvOsOat
Cl ikO tHs HypYtOESsO 
Yf a rigHt triaEglO
TisOctiEg 
tHO flYYIiEg aEglO TrackOts 
Yf ay HOrriEgTYEO jackOt
sOwE frYD tHO prickly 
wYYlOE Hair Yff tHO sHavOI
BAf friIgO)
tHOE slap 
l^lOttiOOE tHO TlaIOs 
VRvO YStpOIalOI yYS!
slYpiEg yarIstick 
OI EO!
V'vO OarEOI 
y VEcHOs likO a clYI-laSEcHiEg 
OlOctricjjlgOaw raapagiEg 
YE a pSttiEg grOOE likO a tHYSsaEI 
sliciEg cavOaOE gYlfOrs.
Back 'Oa Sp, 
tYSgHgSyi scratcH tHO OlgHtTall 
VE ay pYckOt.
FOOl tHO wiEI warp 
tHis skyrlsO likO a cYral fiEgOr 
TOiEg ripplOI Ty tHO sOa.
StYck ay TlktEg pack, Jack!
WHOE tHO yarIstick sEaps,
IYE't OvOE cYSEt tHO falliEg aaps.
99

---------------------------------------------------

Kindergarten
Snow Joe Valeri
Snow sticks to itself like negativity,
rolling and clumping around the fieldbut I hurry past, fingers pulling warmth 
from my coffee cup, cheeks bitten 
red by the wind. I only watch as they roll
three big balls toward each otherbundled in thick red, fluffy white, 
dull winter hats, and pink little mittens.
I glance back to see them push
the head up on top, resting too far 
to the left. I'm not there when the snowballs fly 
and the squealing starts-when one little boy, 
pants soaked through to his butt,
comes closer to the crowd. All morning 
he sat and licked snowflakes 
off his palm, watching the flurries 
twinkle and settle on the cold field.
All morning his teacher held someone's 
hand or made snow angels. She wiped 
their sticky noses while he dragged 
his feet In patterns through the heavy snow.
When the snowman fell I was tossing 
my coffee cup in a trashcan;
I was dusting the wetness
from my shoulders and blowing on my hands.
When he threw a snowball 
at the cutest little girl in class 
I had already forgotten how bitter 
it was outside and how old
I had become. While his teacher grabbed 
his wrist, I was hanging my coat 
on a rack. She pulled him through the field 
and his feet dragged a pattern of
disgust behind him In the snow.

---------------------------------------------------

Illiteracy devicesyio poinL.no resolution,by Rich Torio
She speaks English like a foreign phone-sex fantasy, "mundt-harmonica", she'd say demurely, eroticizing inanimate objects inadvertently. Her face is as quietly passionate as Buster Keaton's.
Sometimes, when words fail her, fallinglike socks from her laundry basket, I pick them upoff her face. We're in a silent movie now,frames of text occasionally pushingthe plot. Like slapstick, there are no words for this.Like phone-sex,Only the simplest sounds are needed.
Counterpoint
Love isn't continuous spontaneity. Continuous spontaneity is a Hollywood construction, another imperfect illusion of human perception (a pencil doesn't really bend in a glass of water), another myth, like perpetual motion or cold fusion, nothing can constandy create energy, not even two people.Sure, at first it seems as though you glide on the other person's body in a frictionless universe away from the world of Newton's laws, but eventually the mystical liquid of love evaporates, the gliding goes to grinding, the sweet lubrication to bitter burns. Spontaneous emotions and fleeting fancy eventually falter like sparkplugs.

---------------------------------------------------

^&'
RUBISI11 ' 
. t typa H7c> 
o* ilie /tyt
A^si5 in,!hG 6*0/AU1* **s/' as c0nnh u u
lad
tyf/
g#% %
y'T'fcQ Jk.
**1
-J
'//"? -
<s>
J
Ve
ro/npiei
fto track
j" v*  f ^ i/7e f/y re^
wm. . i?r
TheT ar*z ~Zjr& ggr/* *
rj S r- =*-* ___ X
fes
o1or
^V ^Vw\k<-> ./' oi
V n^x ^ ^
be WH*
# k^S ^ v^X *
&*& ^ # <* rjsnk<r
p2

---------------------------------------------------

Mentol whatever.
He got out, and then got me out for the sole purpose of breaking 
up with me. He said that I was a thrill seeker and much too sexually 
adventurous for his taste. I said that he was a really good lay, and 
thanked him for his time and effort.
This song by Ministry continues to go through my head. In the 
intro, it states:
"...???, but that wasn't enough. So you became a thrill seeker..."
The title of the song is "So What."
My bed is being delivered today - part of my punishment was to buy 
the "tainted" floor model that I "exposed myself upon" while "force
fully mounting my partner." I definitely like the bed, but the prob
lem is that I would use it. So I won't be here to receive it. I think 
I'd rather disappear for a while. I'm taking off to Mexico in about 
one hour. I've decided that tequila is not so bad when mixed with 
ice and fruit flavors, and served in a big glass with a salted rim. I 
can perhaps eat a worm or two. But you already know all of this, so 
why don't you admit to yourself your true motivations? I guess I'm 
just waiting for epiphany #73. I
Stop crying. I
fendof
tape]

---------------------------------------------------

Meta
mental Recording *1
The content in most of my 
mental recordings are use
less, and is not deserving 
of documentation. J
Epiphany 72 (repeat)
Solution
Finder #2457942
I am in jail. Apparently public indecency is a crime punishable by law. I should:
a. Seduce the guard.
b. Begin digging holes.
c. Call someone.
d. Make some life decisions while I have the time.
Can't decide. Guess it's not so bad in here.

---------------------------------------------------

to 71st Street
Must step carefully, a crowded train is
arriving at a city limits of the milky way 
with a newspaper whose sections expand outward ever.
subways cars bump up and down and sometimes
the swiveling back arrives before the front,
swinging like an earthworm, each end with 
a will, or the instinctual equivalent of will.
A Chinese dragon four trillion light years 
long is sighted diving for fish in a black hole 
that is four billion degrees below
zero and the crowd pushes forward.
The theories of a cult are proved;
The followers throw up their knees and jackknife into 
supernovas.
And then it is very quiet. Exiting the train is pleasure.
The vacuum is cooler than the gulf stream * i
and although its pace is pasted onto
thS-present, passengers are carried away
with a speed that hiiils at coma,
David Mercer Bufter
Si;

---------------------------------------------------

E
Mental
Recording #555442
"If I could swing my leg that way baby, I 
would." How can I make that sound sexy? I'm not ready to 
stop, but at this point more nerves were being stimulated than I 
counted on.
He has that open mouthed, glazed eye look about him, which 
became further laced with determination as he became more engaged 
in the task at hand. Forget about my leg. He looked sexy this way.
"Oh, yeah," I said in a breathy voice.
Oh yeah? Was that the best I could do? That was the answer to 
the question, "Remember that guy you tripped over that time?" But 
what would I have said - "You are the king of hip gyrations?" Or "This 
is better than the stuff that was in that porn film I caught you watch
ing lost night?"
Why am I holding back? I'd like to just immediately unleash my pas
sion...God that sounds so cheesy. This is my first time with him. fit least 
it wasn't my first-first time again. They say that you never forget your 
first, but I cannot for the life of me remember his name. Bobby, or did . 
he go by Robert? I was sixteen. I can remember his smell clearly; it was 
I that of new car. New car with leather seats.
"They've been trying to duplicate this scent for years," I said to him 
as we lay on a lumpy twin sized mattress that was haphazardly thrown on 
the floor.
"Shh, you'll wake my sister," he whispered back.
My best friend was sprawled across the cold wood floor on a small 
comforter. She didn't have a bedroom; her parents were practicing "tough 
love" with her, which didn't really bother her much. Her mouth drooped open 
and radiated fumes of the Tequila we'd confiscated earlier from her parents' 
secret meeting place. My jeans, which were now conveniently located on the 
floor, were still wet with her vomit. Bob or Rob or whoever (whom I didn't 
know existed until tonight as he also has the apparently inherited tendency 
to disappear for long periods of time) had offered to help me out of those 
pants, and having earlier commandeered and drank my own bottle of Cuervo, I 
was in no position to argue.
He proceeded to hook his thumbs under the elastic of my panties, and 
before I had a chance to become embarrassed, penetration coupled with 
intense pain overtook my existence. As I gasped, Robbie's sister began vomit
ing again. Looking up, Bobert's hideous face spun above my own swirling one, 
and I then did my part to add to the stench of vomit and tequila and ejaculate 
and leather that filled the room.
"Stop crying. There's a bathroom down the hall," he moaned, and rolled
over.
But such a memory has no business emerging at a time like this. This guy 
isn't just new, but this entire experience with him is purely novel and utterly 
amazing and is like having a firm cone of sweet cream ice cream in the midst of a 
drought. I should just stop thinking because I'm ruining it.
Mental
Recording #555444
Can't sleep. Just keep think
ing. Doesn't help that he talks in 
his sleep. Maybe I'll buy a new bed 
tomorrow. The one I had now was a 
full. That is only one step up from 
twin, and almost as good as being on 
the floor. But enough of that;- if I 
don't think about how much I want to go 
to sleep, I'll fall asleep. (MISSING DATA 
HERE) It's not working. Just breathe, 
don't think. Thinking: no. Breathing: yes. 
Breathe...
Dream 
#2
This one is in color and I am bleeding again. 
Freud would say that there are strong 
emotions stirring beneath my surface 
that long to be released.

---------------------------------------------------

7 3
