Carnegie Mellons student newspaper since 1906
thetartan.org
@thetartan
April 16, 2012
Volume 106, Issue 25
BRENT HEARD
Assistant News Editor
Expelled junior civil and 
environmental engineering 
major Stephane Batton is 
suing Carnegie Mellon for 
violating his civil rights.
Following Battons Feb. 
4 off-campus ?ght with 
another student, the university held a disciplinary 
committee hearing. Batton 
claims the hearing violated 
his civil rights. He is suing 
to reverse the expulsion.
According to the lawsuit, 
Batton claims the university violated his rights by 
forcing him to testify while 
criminal charges against 
him were pending, censoring the questions he could 
ask witnesses, and refusing 
to provide a transcript of 
the hearing when he appealed his expulsion.
The suit names the university, Jared Cohon, Michael Murphy, Gina Casalegno, and the University 
Committee on Discipline as 
defendants. Cathy Bissoon, 
U.S. district court judge, 
will preside over the case; 
no trial date has been released at this time.
Junior civil and environmental engineering major 
Elissa Goldner, a friend of 
Batton, has started a petition to have him reinstated 
as a student. Goldner declined to comment, pending approval from Battons 
lawyer.
Teresa Thomas, assistant 
vice president for media 
relations for the university, 
said in an email, Consistent with our practice, we 
will not comment on the 
substance of this pending 
lawsuit. We are con?dent 
that the University followed appropriate process 
throughout the proceedings 
that are the subject of the 
complaint, and further that 
the plaintiffs rights were 
not violated in any way.
Carnegie Mellons community standards website 
does not explicitly address 
off-campus issues or altercations, nor does it list 
a strict standard for when 
a violation of community 
standards results in expulsion as opposed to some 
other form of disciplinary 
action. However, assault is 
listed as an infraction that 
will result in a disciplinary 
hearing.
According to the website, in cases under the University Committee on Discipline, In the disciplinary 
process, a student who is 
charged with a violation has 
the right to remain silent.
The website also addresses the question of 
whether transcripts of a 
hearing must be provided 
for an appeal: The person 
bringing an appeal may request that the recordings of 
the hearing be transcribed. 
In this case, the student will 
be responsible for the cost 
of providing a transcription 
of the recording of the prior 
proceedings. The transcription is made solely for the 
use of the person considering the appeal. The transcript will NOT be provided 
to the students involved.
Batton had a preliminary hearing on Thursday 
regarding criminal charges 
of aggravated assault and 
related crimes. He was not 
available for comment.
JACKSON LANE
Senior Staffwriter
Amaris Whitaker, a masters student in public policy 
and management at Heinz 
College, and her attorneys 
from the Mizner Law ?rm ?led 
a complaint against the Static 
nightclub on Feb. 23, alleging 
the club discriminated against 
Whitaker due to a disability. 
Speci?cally, Whitaker asserts that the club failed to 
make reasonable accommodations and then barred her 
from entering because she 
needed a chair near the dance 
?oor. Such discrimination has 
historically been prohibited 
under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA).
Whitaker has dif?culty 
standing and walking due to 
a congenital joint difference 
known as arthrogryposis. At 
birth, my joints were quite 
dis?gured, she said. I was 
able to have surgeries and 
have things restructured so I 
could at least walk and dress 
myself. 
Despite her disability, 
Whitaker enjoys dancing and 
going out with her friends.
Under the ADA, businesses 
must make reasonable accommodations to ensure that 
people with disabilities receive equal levels of service as 
someone without a disability 
might receive. 
JUSTIN MCGOWN
Staffwriter
Instead of a classroom, a 
poker hall could be found in 
room 6115 of the Gates Hillman Complex on Thursday 
night. Carnegie Mellon students were treated to a poker 
tournament and free dinner 
courtesy of Susquehanna International Group (SIG), an 
international trading and investment ?rm. 
The company, which is 
based in Philadelphia, has run 
this event before at several 
other colleges and universities, but this was its ?rst tournament at Carnegie Mellon. 
SIG runs events such as the 
poker tournament in order to 
recruit college students with 
skills in mathematics and 
risk management to work for 
them.
The competition consisted 
of 12-minute rounds of Texas 
Hold Em, with each contestant starting with $500 in 
chips. SIG employees in various departments sat as dealers 
at each of the tables. 
At stake in the competition were several prizes, with 
the top three players receiving the latest iPad, an Xbox 
360 with Kinect, and a Kindle 
Fire. Other players that made 
it to the later rounds received 
signed copies of a book about 
poker authored in part by Bill 
Chen, a quantitative analyst, 
the head of the statistical arbitage group at SIG, and an 
accomplished World Series of 
Jonathan Carreon/Photo Editor
Amaris Whitaker, a masters student in the Heinz School of Public Policy and Management, alleges that the manager of the nightclub Static failed to 
make reasonable accommodations for her disability, as required under the Americans with Disabilities Act.
CMU sued by expelled student
Local nightclub under ?re for disability policy
See STATIC, A3
University of Pittsburgh Bomb Threats
3 threats
>4 threats
4 threats
<3 threats
Alan Vangpat/Junior ArtistSource: @PittTweet
Students play poker at SIG recruitment event
Jonathan Carreon/Photo Editor
Susquehanna International Group, an international trading and investment ?rm, held a poker competition at 
Carnegie Mellon on Thursday in order to recruit students. Company representatives acted as dealers.See POKER, A3
Passion Pit Preview  C6Carnival Calendar  C15Reunions Issue  Section B
Spring Carnival 2012 Preview: As Seen On TV

---------------------------------------------------

A2  thetartan.org/news The Tartan  April 16, 2012
University Lecture 
Series: David R. 
Shumway
Monday at 4:30 p.m. 
Giant Eagle Auditorium 
(Baker Hall A51)
The Center for the Arts in 
Society will sponsor an event 
in recognition of English 
professor David Shumways 
book, Director John Sayles: 
Critical Realism and New Left 
Cinema. 
Shumway examines the 
de?ning characteristic of the 
contemporary independent 
?lmmakers cinema: realism. 
Shumways study details 
the conditions under which 
Sayles ?lms, such as Matewan, Eight Men Out, Passion 
Fish, and Lone Star, have 
been produced, distributed, 
and exhibited, and how they 
affect the way in which these 
?lms have been understood 
and appreciated.
Lecture Series in 
Environmental Science, 
Technology, and Policy: 
Warren M. Washington
Tuesday at 4:30 p.m. 
Giant Eagle Auditorium 
(Baker Hall A51)
The lecture series in environmental science, technology, and policy, co-sponsored 
by the Of?ce of the Vice Provost for Education and the 
Of?ce of Student Affairs, 
presents Warren M. Washington.
Washington is an internationally recognized expert 
on climate research. His talk 
will be titled Climate Modeling, Societal Impacts and 
Environmental Justice. He 
specializes in computer modeling of Earths climate. He 
has published almost 200 papers in professional journals, 
garnered dozens of national 
and international awards, 
and served as a science adviser to former presidents 
Jimmy Carter, Ronald Reagan, George H.W. Bush, Bill 
Clinton, and George W. Bush. 
The talk is hosted by the 
Steinbrenner Institute for Environmental Education and 
Research.
School of Art Lecture 
Series: Wangechi Mutu
Tuesday at 5 p.m. 
Kresge Theater,  
College of Fine Arts
Wangechi Mutu will present this weeks School of Art 
lecture. Mutu is a Kenyanborn artist who currently 
lives in Brooklyn, N.Y. 
Mutu is interested in female subjects and issues that 
pertain to the picture of a 
post-colonial Africa. The female body is a primary site of 
engagement and provocation 
in her work. Mutus work has 
been exhibited in galleries 
across the globe.
Con?ict Kitchen
Wednesday at 5 p.m. 
Room 111,  
College of Fine Arts
Art professor Jon Rubin 
and Con?ict Kitchen manager Robert Sayre will lead 
a discussion on a Carnegie 
Mellon culinary and art project, Con?ict Kitchen. 
Con?ict Kitchen is a restaurant that serves cuisine 
from countries with which 
the United States is in con?ict. The food is served out 
of a take-out style storefront, 
and the menu changes countries on a six-month rotation 
to highlight a new location. 
Cuban food will be served 
during the discussion free of 
charge.
Herb Toor Lecture: 
Anthony Cugini
Thursday at 10:45 a.m. 
Doherty Hall 1112
Anthony Cugini, the director of the U.S. Department 
of Energys National Energy 
Technology Laboratory, will 
deliver the Department of 
Chemical Engineering 2012 
Herb Toor Lecture. 
Cugini will give a presentation titled Current Energy 
Trends Highlight the Need 
for Development of Advanced Carbon Management 
Techniques.
Compiled by
COURTNEY WITTEKIND
Corrections & Clari?cations
If you would like to submit a correction or clari?cation, please email The Tartan at news@thetartan.org or 
editor@thetartan.org with your inquiry, as well as the 
date of the issue and the name of the article. We will 
print the correction or clari?cation in the next print issue and publish it online.
Lecture Preview
Carnegie Mellon chemistry professor Danith Ly has 
invented an easier, less expensive technique for manufacturing cyclic peptides. 
Cyclic peptides are ringshaped chains of amino acids. Some cyclic peptides can 
be used to combat serious 
diseases, including HIV and 
SARS.
Carnegie Mellon chemists 
have speci?cally focused on 
synthesizing a cyclic peptide 
known as RTD-1.
RTD-1 is part of the innate immune system of macaques and baboons, and at 
one time it was part of our 
immune system, Ly said in 
a university press release. If 
we can reproduce this peptide, we possibly could treat 
a wide range of infections to 
which humans were once immune.
The synthetic peptide has 
now proven effective against 
E. coli, listeria, staphylococcus and salmonella  all of 
which are fought by RTD-1.
The researchers now hope 
to test the synthetic peptide 
against other pathogens, speci?cally ones resistant to antibiotics. Chemists also plan 
to reproduce and synthesize 
other cyclic peptides using 
Lys method.
The research for this project was funded by the National Institutes of Health, 
the National Science Foundation, and the DSF Charitable 
Foundation.
Compiled by
COURTNEY WITTEKIND
While video game consoles like the Xbox 360 have 
long been known to consume excessive amounts of 
electricity, Carnegie Mellon 
researchers are proposing 
strategies for more energyef?cient entertainment. 
Engineering and public policy doctoral students 
Eric Hittinger and Kimberley 
Mullins and engineering and 
public policy professor Ins 
Lima de Azevedos recent article Electricity consumption 
and energy savings potential 
of video game consoles in the 
United States, published in 
Energy Ef?ciency, offers a 
simple and virtually free solution to the problem.
Much of the electricity 
cost associated with the use 
of these video game systems 
originates in users choice not 
to shut down the devices after 
they ?nish using them. As a 
result, consoles consume approximately 1 percent of the 
residential electricity used in 
the United States  although 
fewer than half of the households in the population have 
the devices.
The solution proposed by 
researchers is to simply create a ?rmware update that 
most users get automatically 
from the manufacturers. The 
update could create a default 
setting to put the consoles to 
sleep after one hour, possibly reducing electricity consumption of game consoles 
by 75 percent. This solution is 
estimated to save consumers 
$1 billion annually in electricity bills.
CAMPUS NEWS IN BRIEF
Researchers create energy-ef?cient game consoles 
FEATURE PHOTO
Students rent puppies for an afternoon
WEATHER
TUESDAY
High / Low
61 / 43
WEDNESDAY
High / Low
63 / 45
THURSDAY
High / Low
67 / 48
FRIDAY
High / Low
63 / 49
SATURDAY
High / Low
57 / 41
Bicycle Theft
April 7, 2012
University Police were noti?ed that a bicycle was stolen 
from the Merson Courtyard. 
Upon arrival, of?cers noticed 
that one bicycle was stolen 
with the front tire still locked 
up to the rack and a second 
bicycle had its front tire stolen 
with the rest of the bicycle left 
attached to the rack.
Disorderly Conduct
April 7, 2012
University Police responded to Webster Hall for a report 
of a University of Pittsburgh 
student who was running 
through multiple hallways 
and knocking on doors and 
creating a disturbance. The 
student was located and was 
somewhat incoherent. He admitted to smoking marijuana 
earlier. The male was turned 
over to the University of Pittsburgh police and will be cited 
for disorderly conduct.
Disorderly Conduct
April 8, 2012
University Police were 
called to the Gates Center for 
a report of students who were 
riding wheeled chairs down 
the helix walkway. 
Upon arrival, of?cers met 
with the students who admitted to riding the chairs. It was 
explained to the students that 
it was dangerous and unacceptable behavior. A report 
was made and the students 
were warned that if they were 
caught again they would be 
cited.
Bomb Threat
April 9, 2012
At 5:53 p.m., University 
Police responded to a request 
for assistance from Pittsburgh 
police, who had been called 
to the Starbucks coffee shop 
located at the intersection of 
S. Craig and Forbes Streets 
regarding a bomb threat. 
The area was secured and 
searched. No suspicious devices were found.
Bicycle Theft Arrest
April 9, 2012
At approximately 9:55 
p.m., University Police and 
Pittsburgh police were noti?ed of a suspicious male near 
the Webster Hall bike racks 
with a cutting instrument in 
his hand. A university of?cer 
located a male ?tting the description on N. Craig Street. It 
was determined that the male 
was in possession of a stolen 
bicycle. The suspect was arrested and taken to Allegheny 
County Jail.
Theft
April 10, 2012
A professor reported that 
a guitar valued at $300 was 
stolen from his of?ce in Posner Hall sometime between 
March 2 and last Tuesday. The 
case is under investigation.
Aggressive Pan-handling
April 11, 2012
University Police responded for a report of a male that 
was pan-handling aggressively on Margaret Morrison 
Street. The male was given a 
de?ant trespass warning and 
told not to return to campus.
Campus Crime & Incident Reports
Kappa Sigma held its Rent-A-Dog event at the Fence last Thursday. The semi-annual event allowed students to play with dogs from animal shelters. 
All proceeds went to these shelters and the Western Pennsylvania Humane Society. Puppies cost $5 for ?ve minutes and $10 for ?fteen minutes.
Statistically Speaking
Instagram is a mobile photo sharing application that 
allows users to upload pictures, apply digital ?lters to 
them, and share them with the world. It is currently 
supported on iPhone, iPad, iPod Touch, and Android 
camera phones. Last Monday, Facebook purchased Instagram, in an unprecedented business maneuver costing roughly one quarter of Facebooks on-hand money. 
Here are some facts about Instagram:
30 million
$1 billion
17
The number of months Instagram has been live
13
The number of Instagram employees
Compiled by 
MATT POWELL-PALM
Sources: nytimes.com, instagr.am, and 
blog.instagram.com
Source: www.weather.com
The number of active Instagram accounts as of this month
Jennifer Coloma/Operations Manager
The price at which Facebook purchased Instagram
Professor develops cheaper way to synthesize peptides

---------------------------------------------------

April 16, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/news  A3
Whats reasonable can 
vary depending on the situation, said masters in public policy and management 
student Jake Oresick, who is 
an intern at Mizner Law and 
a friend of Whitaker. If its 
too much of a burden to provide accommodations, then it 
might not be reasonable. 
Oresick gave as an example 
that while the ADA might require a bookstore to provide 
a wheelchair ramp, it does 
not require that the bookstore 
stock all of its books in braille 
for people who are blind.
However, Whitaker and 
Oresick assert that Static 
faced no such burden in providing a chair. There was 
plenty of available of seating 
on that night [when I asked 
for a chair]. They were VIP 
seats, but they were empty, 
Whitaker said. The issue isnt 
providing a seat on the dance 
?oor. I just need a seat nearby 
that I can access.
I visited the club to see 
what it was like, Oresick said. 
There are chairs around, and 
it shouldnt cost anything or 
inconvenience the business 
terribly to take one chair and 
move it a little closer to the 
dance ?oor.
Although Whitaker, Oresick, and Mizner Law are alleging violations of civil rights, 
Static claims that Whitaker 
was refused admission due to 
behavioral infractions. We 
feel for Ms. Whitakers situation with her disability, however that does not give her 
permission to break rules inside the facility; she is equal to 
everyone else and must abide 
by the venues policies, said 
Static spokesperson Bruno 
Maroni in an email. Our company does not discriminate 
anybody for any reason. Furthermore, our company has 
hosted numerous charitable 
events from Light of Life mission to the Wheelchair vets 
naming a few.
While the ADA has been 
interpreted to prohibit refusal 
of service due to disability, it 
does not protect those who 
are denied service due to disorderedly conduct.
Although the club did not 
elaborate on the speci?cs 
of the behavior infractions, 
Whitaker said that she thinks 
Maroni is referring to a conversation she had with a manager about a chair. She does 
not feel that exchange was 
confrontational. I believe the 
conversation was cordial. I did 
not swear. I was ?rm, but I did 
not yell. I was just assertive in 
the fact that I needed a place 
to sit, Whitaker said. 
Oresick believes that the 
club will have trouble substantiating its claim in court. The 
fact that they wont elaborate 
on her conduct is curious 
enough in itself, Oresick said.
Whitaker is currently seeking injunctive relief, and Static 
has two weeks left to respond 
to the complaint.
STATIC, from A1
JOSEPH WHITE
Junior Staffwriter
Phillip H. Scanlan, the Australian consul general in New 
York, visited Carnegie Mellon 
and gave a lecture last Tuesday on the future of Australia 
in a changing world. 
Scanlan focused on the future of the G-20 and how Australias position in the world 
will change as its neighboring 
developing nations like Indonesia advance economically.
Scanlan said that Australia is shifting its strategy from 
that of a big economy to that 
of a consistent high performer. 
According to Scanlan, Australia has thrived economically, 
but will soon be surpassed by 
its neighbors because of their 
higher populations.
Scanlan believes that the 
solution to this problem is 
global engagement. He said 
that if Australia works with its 
neighbors to promote cooperation in the southwest Paci?c, 
it could create an economic 
environment where each nation bene?ts from each others 
growth through the free ?ow 
of ideas, people, and trade.
In order to promote international cooperation, Scanlan 
founded the non-governmental organization Australian 
American Leadership Dialogue to bring together young 
leaders from the U.S., China, 
India, Australia, and other nations to network and form a 
spirit of partnership and collaboration. 
Scanlan has continued his 
efforts toward international 
cooperation as consul general through the New York 
Young Leaders program. The 
program gives young leaders 
the opportunity to discuss issues behind closed doors, free 
from the pressure of internal 
politics or other political and 
cultural norms that stand between their nations.
Masters student at the 
Heinz School of Public Policy 
and Management Amy Badiani, who attended a luncheon 
with Scanlan on Wednesday, 
spoke positively of the program. Because of [the programs] nature behind closed 
doors ... young leaders have 
actually created change, Badiani said.
Scanlan said the goal of 
constructing networks for 
leaders of various nations is 
to solve global issues multilaterally. Scanlan pointed to 
climate change, intellectual 
property reform, immigration, 
and the ?ght against human 
traf?cking as global problems 
that require mutual cooperation to ?nd and execute solutions. According to Scanlan, 
while unilateral action can 
improve the situation for one 
nation, without international 
accord, problems simply shift 
across borders.
Students who attended the 
lecture and luncheon seemed 
to ?nd Scanlans ideas interesting. I think it was good 
that he visited CMU, because 
he was able to convey Australias role in global politics, 
Badiani said.
[The lecture] was informative, said Carmen Easterwood, a senior economics 
major. He seems like a really 
intelligent guy.
Poker player.
Poker is about making 
decisions based on incomplete information, which 
is also the world you trade 
in, said Amy Lin, one of the 
employees who acted as a 
dealer. 
According to Lin, poker 
is an important part of the 
corporate culture at SIG. 
The founders played a lot, 
and options are a bit like 
poker, Lin explained. How 
much am I paying and what 
am I paying?
SIG promotes a high degree of integration between 
both the technological and 
trading aspects of commodities, derivatives, and other 
trade options. 
SIG recruiters said they 
were drawn to Carnegie 
Mellon because of the  high 
concentration of technical skills and quantitative 
minds on campus.
Although competition 
was stiff, it was not hostile. 
Apoorv Khandelwal, a senior electrical and computer engineering major, was 
one of the ?rst eliminated, 
with an Ace Jack Heart 
Flush to a King Queen Heart 
Flush. 
Although he felt bad 
about losing so early in the 
tournament, Khandelwal 
said he felt the competition 
was a worthwhile event. 
Not many companies have 
a poker event, Khandelwal 
said. I played some poker 
and learned a bit about the 
company.
CMU 
turns 
out for 
poker
Student sues club over alleged ADA violations
Australian consul general in N.Y. comes to CMU
It shouldnt ... inconvenience the 
business terribly to take one chair 
and move it a little closer to the 
dance ?oor.
Jake Oresick
Masters student in Heinz
POKER, from A1
Jennifer Coloma/Operations Manager
Phillip Scanlan, the Australian consul general in New York, spoke at 
Carnegie Mellon last week about Australias changing place in the world.

---------------------------------------------------

A4  thetartan.org/scitech The Tartan  April 16, 2012
HOW THINGS WORK
Arti?cial sweeteners have varied history
NIHARIKA SINGH
Staffwriter
Arti?cial sweeteners can be 
found in many college staples, 
from diet sodas and low-fat 
yogurts to canned fruit and 
chewing gum. Their popularity is due in part to their advantage over regular sugar: They 
can greatly sweeten foods 
while avoiding the calories 
sugar adds. However, they are 
also the subject of controversy 
because of their potentially 
unhealthy effects. 
According to the Mayo 
Clinic, there are ?ve widely 
used arti?cial sweeteners that 
have been approved by the 
FDA; these are called intense 
sweeteners because of their 
capability to sweeten foods 
several times more intensely 
than regular sugar. 
This characteristic of arti?cial sweeteners can be a 
pitfall for students wanting a 
healthy diet, said Paula Martin, a nutritionist at Carnegie 
Mellon. Arti?cial sweeteners [are] many or a hundred 
times sweeter than naturally 
occurring sweeteners, Martin 
explained. This may change 
a persons taste preference to 
only accept extremely sweettasting foods and thus reduce 
enjoyment of naturally sweetened foods like vegetables, 
fruits, and grains.
According to Time magazine, the ?rst arti?cial sweetener was discovered in 1879 
by Johns Hopkins University 
scientist Constantin Fahlberg. 
He noticed that his food tasted 
especially sweet when he ate it 
with his hands after working 
on ?nding interesting uses for 
coal tar. After some research, 
Fahlberg was able to isolate 
the compound responsible 
for the sweet taste: saccharin. 
Soon after its discovery, some 
scientists tried to ban the use 
of saccharin in 1911 because 
they believed it was an adulterant that altered food substances. 
Saccharin was linked to 
cancer in rats in 1977, and although the FDA couldnt ban 
the substance, the discovery 
made it mandatory for substances containing saccharin 
to carry a warning label. In 
2000, saccharin was removed 
from the governments list of 
suspected carcinogens, but 
the suspicion of its possible 
harmful side effects still worries many consumers. 
The sweetener cyclamate 
was widely used in the 1950s 
because it tasted more natural than saccharin and didnt 
have a metallic aftertaste. 
However, in 1969, the government banned cyclamate 
because of studies linking it to 
cancer and to the formation of 
deformities in chicken embryos. Cyclamate is still approved 
for use in more than 55 countries, including Canada. 
The FDA has established 
an acceptable daily intake 
for each arti?cial sweetener, 
which ranges from ?ve to 50 
milligrams per kilogram. 
Using arti?cial sweeteners 
in baking can lead to interesting consequences, as senior electrical and computing 
engineering major Rebecca 
Willmott discovered. She 
recounted her experience: 
I baked a cake with lemon 
cream icing for someone who 
couldnt eat sugar once, and 
the arti?cial sweetener reacted with the acid in the lemon 
juice to create an expanding 
icing which ended up around 
[three times] the volume it 
started at.
There are alternatives 
to arti?cial sweeteners. Socalled novel sweeteners are 
becoming more popular. One 
of these, called stevia, is commonly prepared by drying stevia plants and extracting the 
sweetening compounds by a 
water extraction process. 
Other alternatives are natural sweeteners such as honey, 
maple syrup, and agave nectar. Although natural sweeteners are similar to regular 
sugar in that they can cause 
weight gain and tooth decay, 
many people prefer these because of their unique taste or 
possible health bene?ts. Many 
people consider these natural 
sweeteners to be safer than arti?cial sweeteners.
While it is true that no studies have conclusively shown 
that arti?cial sweeteners on 
the market should be banned, 
other studies  such as those 
conducted on rats at Purdue 
University  have suggested 
a link between consumption 
of arti?cial sweeteners and increase in body weight.
Currently, the American 
Dietetic Association recommends that all types of sweeteners can be enjoyed in moderation when consumed in a 
diet that is guided by current 
federal nutrition recommendations.
Photo illustration by Jennifer Coloma/Operations Manager
Teams prepare mobots for Carnival
DANIEL TKACIK
SciTech Editor
Students were turning 
wrenches, twisting screwdrivers, and writing code this 
past week in preparation for 
the upcoming Mobot competition, the annual mobile 
robot contest hosted by the 
School of Computer Science. 
The activities coincided well 
with the fact that it was National Robotics Week, which 
celebrates robotics research in 
the United States.
Mobot, which ?rst made its 
debut at Carnegie Mellon 17 
years ago as an alternative to 
the Buggy races at Spring Carnival, lets students from any 
discipline compete in a robotics challenge. Members of participating teams assemble mobots, autonomous self-driving 
robots equipped with motors and sensors that enable 
them to follow a white line 
painted on the ground and 
pass through systematically 
positioned gates. The course 
is located on the walkway in 
front of Wean Hall; teams are 
judged on accuracy and time.
Last Wednesday, the Mobot Committee hosted the $99 
Mini Challenge, an event to allow Mobot participants to receive technical assistance with 
their mobots as well as compete in two smaller events. 
The Slalom Challenge required mobots to successfully 
pass through all of the gates 
in the slalom portion of the 
course, and the DecisionPoint Challenge required mobots to make it past a section 
of the course consisting of diverging and converging white 
lines designed to confuse the 
vehicles.
Imagine teaching someone how to ski a slalom, a 
downhill ski course. Were 
teaching a robot to do the 
same thing, said Nolan Hergert, a senior electrical and 
computer engineering major 
and a member of the $99 Mini 
Challenges winning team. 
Team Gaussian Blur  made 
up of Hergert and fellow senior electrical and computer 
engineering majors Billy Keyes 
and Chao Wang  cleared the 
slalom section of the course in 
36.74 seconds.
Keyes explained that making a robot perform the task 
of following a white line is not 
nearly as easy as it sounds. Its 
easy for you to just say, Its the 
white paint on the ground! 
But how do you explain that to 
someone that doesnt necessarily understand what white 
is? Or what a line is?
The Final Mobot Slalom 
Races, to be held on Friday, 
will crown the team whose 
mobot successfully passes 
through the most gates in sequence in the shortest amount 
of time. Each team will be allowed two course runs, and 
each teams best performing 
run will be used to compare 
to other teams best performances.
The event is sponsored by 
Lockheed Martin, General 
Motors, Two Sigma, Google, 
and Misumi USA. Lockheed 
Martin has embraced the 
ability of our students and 
the many teams to ?nd their 
unique solutions to some or 
all of the issues involved, at 
all levels of expertise, said 
Catherine Copetas, the School 
of Computer Science assistant 
dean for industrial relations. 
GM is a newer sponsor, and 
it goes without saying their 
involvement is a great testimonial to the students and the 
effort invested in these races.
Beyond Carnegie Mellon, 
last week marked the third annual National Robotics Week. 
The U.S. House of Representatives passed a resolution in 
2010 applying that designation to the second full week in 
April. Carnegie Mellon plans 
to have an organized celebration on Friday, involving Robotics Institute lab tours, lectures by robotics professors, 
and the Mobot race ?nals.
Hergert supports the goal 
of recognizing robotics. Taking a week and celebrating all 
these devices and appliances 
and their creators that we take 
for granted merits a week in 
my opinion, he said. 
Canadian mint opens app contest
The Royal Canadian Mint 
has announced the MintChip 
Challenge, a competition for 
software developers to create innovative mobile apps 
demonstrating the potential 
uses of MintChip. MintChip 
is a virtual e-currency fully 
backed by the Canadian government, making it the ?rst 
digital currency to be fully 
backed by any government.
As part of its research 
and development efforts, the 
mint has developed MintChip, which could be characterized as an evolution 
of physical money with the 
added bene?ts of being electronic, said Canadian Mint 
CEO Ian Bennett.
The e-currency technology, which is more of a system or protocol than a physical item, allows its users to 
pay for low-cost items on the 
internet or physically with 
apps on their smartphones. 
Like other digital currencies 
such as BitCoin, MintChip 
relies on advanced cryptographic hashing techniques 
to provide security and anonymity for its users.
Source: PC Magazine, 
Popular Science, Forbes
Team builds ?rst quantum network
Scientists at the Max 
Plank Institute of Quantum 
Optics in Garching, Germany, 
have created the worlds ?rst 
quantum network. The prototype features two singleatom nodes connected by a 
21-meter-long ?ber optic cable, with each node capable 
of both sending and receiving 
information. A single photon 
traveling through the cable 
relays the state of one quantum node to the other.
Typical electrical bits can 
only represent digital 0s or 
1s at any given time. On the 
other hand, qubits  the 
computational bits that drive 
quantum information technologies  can represent 
0s and 1s at the same time, 
a phenomenon known as 
superposition. Paired with 
quantum entanglement  
another property that keeps 
two correlated quantum atoms in sync, even over vast 
distances  superposition 
would make a quantum network faster, more secure, 
and much more scalable than 
existing network infrastructures today.
Source: Nature, Time, 
Scienti?c American
Supercomputer simulates universe
A group of researchers, led 
by Jean-Michel Alimi at the 
Laboratoire Univers et Thorie in Paris, has performed 
the ?rst ever computer simulation of the structuring of 
the observable universe. The 
simulation spans from the 
Big Bang to the present day, 
and its completion marks 
the ?rst of three phases of 
the groups larger project, 
dubbed Deus: full universe 
run. Two more runs will be 
completed by late May, with 
scientists expecting the simulations to provide support for 
other scienti?c endeavors to 
map out the universe. 
The tests were performed 
on Frances CURIE, one of the 
worlds most powerful supercomputers. CURIEs 92,000 
CPUs are capable of two peta?ops  2 quadrillion operations a second.
Source: Science Daily
Baboons learn pre-reading skills
A team of French scientists 
announced last week that 
they have managed to teach 
six Guinea baboons (Papio 
papio) pre-reading  the 
ability to differentiate English words from non-English 
words. After six weeks of 
training, the baboons were 
consistently choosing fourletter English words displayed to them on a computer among an array of 7,832 
four-letter non-words. They 
averaged 75 percent correct, 
with some scoring as high as 
90 percent.
Its not just memorizing, 
said team researcher Jonathan Grainger. Its picking 
up what we call these statistical regularities: Certain letter 
combinations appear more 
frequently in words than in 
non-words.
Source: Reuters, Los Angeles 
Times
Engineered stem cells ?ght off HIV
Researchers at the University of California, Los Angeles 
have demonstrated for the 
?rst time that stem cells can 
be genetically engineered to 
attack HIV-infected cells in 
living organisms.
Expanding on previous 
research showing that the 
technique was possible, the 
team implanted living mice 
with human thymus tissue 
containing genetically engineered T-cell receptor molecules from cells that help 
fend off infection. Over the 
course of six weeks, the researchers discovered that 
the number of CD4 helper 
T-cells  which become depleted as a result of HIV infection  increased, while 
levels of HIV in the mices 
blood decreased.
Source: Science Daily
Apple addresses Flashback malware
Apple has released a security update that removes 
most variants of the OS X trojan Flashback, though critics 
claim the company was too 
slow in releasing the patch. 
The trojan, ?rst detected 
April 3 and believed to have 
infected up to 600,000 Macs, 
works by exploiting a vulnerability in the Java software 
framework in order to send 
users private information to 
unauthorized remote servers.
While the OS X platform 
has typically been lauded for 
being virus-free, a recent 
popularity surge in Apples 
Macbook and iMac models 
has given hackers more incentive to target the platform.
Source: The Washington Post
Compiled by
BENJAMIN MADUEME
SCITECH BRIEFS
File photo by Alan Vangpat
A mobot makes its way down the course during the 2011 Mobot Races. This years ?nals will take place Friday as part of Spring Carnival.
Josh Smith/Forum Editor

---------------------------------------------------

April 16, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/scitech  A5
Researchers use multiple techniques to study autism
VICKI CHENG
Junior Staffwriter
Autism spectrum disorders 
(ASDs) are a class of developmental disabilities with mysterious origins and profound 
effects on individuals and 
families. Much remains to be 
learned about ASDs; research 
groups from several ?elds at 
Carnegie Mellon, including 
psychology and human-computer interaction, are working 
to understand their complexities. Researchers from each of 
these disciplines take different 
approaches to understanding 
individuals affected by ASDs.
In the cognitive psychology 
department, members of professor Marcel Justs research 
group seek to identify differences in brain mechanisms between autistic and non-autistic 
individuals. They use functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to detect regions 
and patterns of brain activity 
when individuals are asked to 
perform certain tasks. Ph.D. 
student Sarah Schipul uses 
this approach to understand 
how autistic individuals learn.
In one study, both autistic 
and non-autistic participants 
were trained to perform a 
particular task while undergoing a brain scan. While both 
groups were able to learn and 
perform the task successfully 
after training, results did show 
a difference in brain activation 
patterns. Whereas the control 
participants showed patterns 
of decreasing activation while 
learning the task, autistic participants did not. These ?ndings suggest that, even though 
autistic individuals are capable of learning and performing 
a task, they are not able to reduce mental effort during the 
course of the learning process. 
If brain imaging studies can reveal the nature of 
atypical behaviors in autism, 
we may be able to inform intervention studies that help 
individuals with autism adapt 
to the world around them, 
Schipul said.
Fellow researcher Akiko 
Mizuno also uses fMRI in her 
research, but her focus is on 
understanding brain mechanisms involved with autistic 
peoples interpersonal interactions. Individuals with autism 
often have dif?culties with 
social interaction and face 
challenges in understanding 
others. Mizuno and collaborators scanned brain activity 
while participants performed 
a language task requiring the 
comprehension and use of 
pronouns. Autistic individuals 
often had dif?culty correctly 
processing pronouns, particularly the word you. While 
the individuals performed the 
task, anomalous activity was 
found in regions of the brain 
responsible for the concept of 
self-identity.
We suspect that the neural process of understanding 
the social world in relation to 
oneself is altered in autism, 
Mizuno said. The results from 
Mizunos work underscore 
the potential importance of 
training people with autism 
in what psychologists refer to 
as perspective-taking  putting oneself in others shoes.
Using a slightly different 
approach, researchers in the 
Human-Computer Interaction 
Institute (HCII) make use of 
the perspective-taking concept to design and improve 
computer systems from the 
viewpoint of people with autism. While human-computer 
interaction research has been 
applied to assist those who 
are severely impaired by autism, 2011 HCII Ph.D. graduate Moira Burke noticed that 
little research had examined 
the needs of high-functioning 
individuals.
Adults on the high-functioning end of the autism 
spectrum  including those 
with Aspergers  often dont 
have obvious signs of a disability, and when they have dif?culty interpreting nonverbal 
cues, they can come across as 
socially awkward and are rejected for it, Burke said. We 
need far more research that 
examines the strengths and 
needs of adults on the autism 
spectrum. 
Burke sought to understand 
the social communication 
needs of high-functioning autistic individuals and to identify ways that computer-based 
communication could be used 
to help them. Through a series 
of observations and interviews 
with high-functioning autistic 
adults, Burke found that individuals experienced both bene?ts and particular challenges 
in communicating through 
email, text messages, and social networks. 
While some participants 
found reduced stress levels 
from interacting with others 
via computer, many participants also experienced dif?culties in understanding 
some nuances of online social 
interaction, indicating that 
opportunities exist to improve 
computer-based experiences 
for these individuals. 
Research on autism encompasses a wide spectrum 
of disciplines and approaches. 
While these studies differ in 
approach, they are united in 
their common goal of understanding this disability, with 
the hopes of vastly improving 
quality of life for those affected by autism.
We need far more research that 
examines the strengths and needs 
of adults on the autism spectrum.
Moira Burke,
HCII Ph.D. graduate
FEATURE PHOTOLocal botanist discusses wild?owers at Hunt exhibit
Jennifer Coloma/Operations Manager
Former Carlow University professor Mary Joy Haywood speaks last Sunday afternoon in Hunt Library about 
the relationship between plants and their environments. Haywood, author of the 2001 book Wild?owers 
of Pennsylvania, is concerned about the regions native plants being affected by shale drilling and other 
environmental issues. She currently teaches in the Master Gardeners program at Phipps Conservatory. 
Haywoods lecture was part of Native Pennsylvania, a Wild?ower Walk, an exhibit running at the Hunt Institute 
for Botanical Documentation, on the ?fth ?oor of the library, through June 29. Three other lectures are 
scheduled for April 22, May 20, and June 24.
Light, color, optics...
SCIENCE
Join the staff
scitech@thetartan.org

---------------------------------------------------

Office: University Center 314
Phone: (412) 268-2111
Fax: (412) 268-1596
Web: www.thetartan.org
E-mail: contact@thetartan.org
Mail:
The Tartan
Box 119, UC Suite 103 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Editorial Staff
 2012 The Tartan, all rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN: 0890-3107
The Tartan is a student newspaper at Carnegie Mellon University, funded in part by the student 
activities fee. It is a weekly publication by students during the fall and spring semesters, printed 
by Trib Total Media. The Tartan is not an official publication of Carnegie Mellon University. The 
first issue is free; subsequent issues cost $0.50 at the discretion of The Tartan. Subscriptions are 
available on a per semester basis.
The Editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The 
Tartan Editorial Board. Columns, Editorial Cartoons, and Reviews are the opinions of their 
individual creators. The Tartan Editorial Staff reserves the right to withhold from publication 
any copy it deems unfit.
Letters to the Editor are the opinions of their authors. Letters from within the University community take precedence. Letters intended for publication must be signed and include the authors 
address and telephone number for verification; letters must not exceed 350 words. Authors names 
may be withheld from publication upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject 
any letter. Letters must be submitted by 5 p.m. on the Wednesday before publication by mail or to 
forum@thetartan.org.
* Denotes executive committee member
StaffEditorial Board
FROM THE EDITORIAL BOARD
SENIOR STAFF 
Stephanie Blotner, Patrick Gage Kelley, 
Stephanie Guerdan, Alan Vangpat
COPY
Rachel Bullen, Connie Chan, Hannah 
Dellabella, Nicole Lee, Sage Po, Michael Setzer, 
Stephanie Stern, Laura Stiles
ADVERTISING
Grace Chung, Seo Young Hwang
JENNIFER COLOMA *
Operations Manager
MADELYN GLYMOUR
News Editor
DANIEL TKACIK
SciTech Editor
ALEX TAPAK
Sports Co-Editor
ADAM GRUBER
Sports Co-Editor
ALLISON COSBY
Pillbox Editor 
NICOLE HAMILTON
Comics Editor
JONATHAN CARREON
Photo Editor
ADELAIDE COLE
Art Editor
ALEX CRICHTON
Systems Manager
SARAH ZAKRAJSEK
Personnel Manager
KATHY CHEN
Advertising Manager
KENNETH WONG
Business Manager
COURTNEY WITTEKIND *
Contributing Editor
GREG HANNEMAN
Contributing Editor
MARICEL PAZ
Contributing Editor
CELIA LUDWINSKI
Contributing Editor
STACEY CHIN
Contributing Editor
MICHAEL KAHN
Contributing Editor
ANNA WALSH *
Staffwriter
KELLY HARRINGTON
Asst. Systems Manager
BONITA LEUNG
Asst. Copy Manager
BRENT HEARD
Asst. News Editor
RACHEL COHEN
Asst. Pillbox Editor
CHRISTA HESTER *
Publisher
EMILY DOBLER *
Editor-in-Chief
JOSH SMITH 
Forum Editor 
EVAN KAHN
Copy Manager
JACKSON LANE
Senior Staffwriter
WILL PENMAN
Staffwriter
A6  thetartan.org/forum The Tartan  April 16, 2012
Carnival shows need more venue space for demand
Spring Carnival 2012 is this 
weekend, and the list of events is 
overwhelming. Big names in entertainment like Nick Offerman (who 
plays Ron Swanson from Parks and 
Recreation) and Passion Pit will perform, hopefully making this years 
Carnival incredible.
There is a lot of pressure to contact prominent bands and performers and reel them in for our Carnival 
show. AB Concert and AB Comedy 
deserve a solid thank you and recognition for bringing in these performers, with an additional thanks 
to Student Activities and Undergraduate Student Senate for helping with the funding to pay for such 
entertainment.
However, there is a signi?cant 
chance that not every student will 
be able to enjoy the Carnival entertainment this year. Tickets for the 
comedy and concert shows of?cially 
opened last Tuesday around noon 
and were sold out within a matter of 
hours. While this demonstrates how 
excited students were for the events, 
it seems that a lot of students could 
be left out of some of the fun this 
weekend.
While the wristbands are only 
needed in the case that it rains and 
the venue has to be moved indoors, 
Pittsburghs weather is sporadic at 
best. There is a 50 percent chance of 
rain on Saturday, when the concert 
is scheduled. If the performances do 
need to be moved inside, only 1,400 
students out of about 9,000 (graduate and undergraduate) will be able 
to enjoy them.
AB Comedy and AB Concerts did 
a good job at getting these entertainers. However, considering the hype 
that comes with these performers 
and the general excitement surrounding Carnival shows, it would 
have been wise for the clubs to utilize 
a more suitable (i.e. larger) indoor 
venue. For example, possibly moving the venue to a place off campus 
and providing shuttles would be bene?cial, because it would have meant 
that more students could enjoy the 
performers AB Comedy and AB Concerts worked so hard to get.
Juan Fernandez/Staff Artist
City in need of college seniors to stay in Pittsburgh
College seniors at the University 
of Pittsburgh, the Community College of Allegheny County, Point Park 
University, and Carnegie Mellon received an email last Tuesday from 
Pittsburgh Mayor Luke Ravenstahl. 
In the email, Ravenstahl encouraged 
them to stay in Pittsburgh after graduation, highlighting that Pittsburgh 
has so much to offer young people, 
from available jobs to high quality of 
life and affordability.
If Ravenstahl and other city of?-
cials want to reinvigorate Pittsburgh 
by bringing in and keeping younger 
people, the bene?ts of living in the 
city need to be made clear to college 
students and other young adults. 
Pittsburgh has received numerous accolades, such as being called 
the most livable city in the U.S. last 
year by the Economist Intelligence 
Unit, and being given the same title 
from Forbes.com in 2010.
However, what matters to college 
graduates now, during a recession, 
is job availability. For Carnegie Mellon students in particular, Pittsburgh 
lacks the reputation that other cities 
and regions have. 
The 2011 Post Graduation Survey 
for the School of Computer Science 
shows 39 percent of computer science graduates going to California 
after graduation. 
The post-graduation surveys 
of other Carnegie Mellon majors 
also show a signi?cant amount of 
students leaving the mid-Atlantic 
region.
At the moment, Pittsburgh 
doesnt carry the weight that Silicon 
Valley and Seattle have for the technology ?elds, nor does it boast the 
artistic reputations of New York City 
or Los Angeles.
But it deserves such recognition. Pittsburgh is becoming a hub 
for technology, medicine, and commerce. High-pro?le companies like 
Apple, Intel, and Microsoft that entice Carnegie Mellon graduates to go 
out west are interested in the Pittsburgh region, with Google being a 
notable example with its East Liberty 
location. According to the Bureau 
of Labor Statistics, between March 
2010 and March 2011, 5,300 jobs 
were created in Pittsburghs education and health services supersector 
alone.
What it comes down to is a need 
for Ravenstahl, Governor Tom Corbett, and other of?cials in the region 
to stress how the city is growing  
not in numbers or awards, but by 
making college graduates aware of 
the opportunities for their careers 
are in Pittsburgh. 
The city may be in the baby stages 
of signi?cant growth and development, but such growth has to be facilitated by continuing to convince 
young people and families to reside 
in Pittsburgh.
Book censorship stops progress of democracy
MICHAEL KAHN
Ignorance is strength.
This is the unspoken creed of 
censors and oppressors across the 
globe. Limiting knowledge is the 
surest way of maintaining the status 
quo. 
Fortunately, the United States 
is an open society; people are free 
to speak, free to read, free to learn. 
Americans can ?nd knowledge in 
their public libraries on any subject 
they can imagine. They need not 
fear books being removed by intolerant or fearful censors.
That, at least, is what I believed 
growing up, as I spent hours exploring school and public libraries. The 
truth is less pleasant.
Last Monday, the American Library Association released the State 
of Americas Libraries Report 2012, 
an annual report that includes a section on intellectual freedom with a 
list of the most banned books of the 
year. 
Banned books conjure memories 
of totalitarian Soviet Russia, the Inquisition, and McCarthyism. It is enforced ignorance with no recourse, 
for how can one protest when 
knowledge itself is hidden?
The books on the ALA list are a 
strange mix including literary classics and modern teen ?ction. The intellectually stirring works of Lauren 
Myracle  the novels ttyl, ttfn, and 
l8r g8r  share space with To Kill a 
Mockingbird by Harper Lee and My 
Moms Having A Baby! A Kids Monthby-Month Guide to Pregnancy by Dori 
Hillestad Butler.
At ?rst glance, there is little to associate Brave New World by Aldous 
Huxley (No. 7) with the Gossip Girl 
series by Cecily Von Ziegesar (No. 
9). The ALA helpfully provides the 
reasons these books were attacked. 
Nudity or sexually explicit was 
listed for eight of the top 10 targets. 
Some exceptions were The Hunger Games series by Suzanne Collins, which was instead called out 
for being insensitive and satanic, 
among other reasons, while To Kill 
a Mockingbird was criticized for 
its offensive language and racism. 
Those seeking to ban these books 
point out the damaging effect sexually explicit content has on children. 
And their argument is compelling; 
Im sure that the teenagers reading 
Brave New World are precisely the 
ones most likely to start having orgyporgies.
Todays libraries provide electronic resources that are just as important as their paper counterparts. 
The forces of censorship have followed this digital transition, and 
libraries face demands to restrict 
the sites their users can visit on the 
internet. School and public libraries 
have legitimate reasons for blocking pornography and sites known 
for malware, but restricting access 
because of political or religious 
views steps far over the line. The 
ALA points out one instance when a 
library patron tried to research Wicca, Native American religions, and 
astrology but was blocked by the 
librarys ?ltering software. Schools 
across the country block Wikipedia 
in part or entirely.
Intellectual freedom is being 
threatened by attempts to ban books 
and block websites. 
In any democratic society, knowledge must be both a right and a 
choice. 
People can choose ignorance if 
they wish, but they cannot force it 
on others. Public libraries are repositories of this knowledge, and 
attempts to censor them are simply 
inexcusable.
Michael Kahn (mkahn@) is a contributing editor for The Tartan. The 
Carnegie Library in Oakland is his 
favorite place in Pittsburgh.
Juan Fernandez/Staff Artist
With Rick Santorum out of the 
race for the Republican Presidential 
nomination, the campaign for the 
White House can really begin. For 
the Republicans sake, this is good. 
The longer they took to decide on 
an approach, the less it seemed they 
had a chance. Now the Republicans 
can rally around Mitt Romney to give 
Obama a run for his money.
It is possible of course that the Republicans could ?nd two exceptional 
candidates in an election cycle whose 
battle for the ticket could cause the 
party to hone its positions and take 
pride in its candidates. However, in 
this case it seems more like they were 
faced with two mediocre candidates, 
the lesser of which was dif?cult to 
decide. 
Santorum ended his campaign 
after a weekend with his family, noting that he was not leaving politics 
but leaving this particular race. We 
may see him again in 2016, as we see 
Romney now four years after his unsuccessful 2008 campaign. 
But now, perhaps by touting a 
weak economy and somewhat unpopular health care bill, Romney 
might provide a formidable challenge for Obama. By having the best 
candidates from both major parties 
focus on what they can do in the Oval 
Of?ce, instead of focusing in simply 
getting the party nomination, the 
future President of the United States 
can achieve more progress.
With habitual Republican voters, 
moderate Republicans, the moral 
right, and Tea Party members, the 
Republican party has a dif?cult 
task to present a coherent strategy. 
Presenting one would help guide 
the party to a state where, whoever 
wins, both parties can unite together 
after the election to do what is right 
for the country. 
That is something that everyone 
should be able to agree on, Santorum and all.
Santorums departure enables true presidential race
People can choose 
ignorance if they 
wish, but they 
cannot force it 
on others. Public 
libraries are 
repositories of this 
knowledge, and 
attempts to censor 
them are simply 
inexcusable.

---------------------------------------------------

A PERSONS OPINION
Compiled by Jonathan Carreon and Jennifer Coloma
Spring Carnival is this week, so we asked,
What about Spring Carnival are you most excited about?
April 16, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/forum  A7
BRADEN KELNER
Junior Staffwriter
Ozzie Guillen, manager for the 
Miami Marlins, was recently been 
criticized for his comments in Time 
magazine on Cuban dictator Fidel 
Castro. Guillen was quoted in an 
interview, I respect Fidel Castro 
... You know why? Many people 
have tried to kill Castro in the last 
60 years, yet that [expletive] is still 
there. 
His statement sparked outrage 
among Cuban-Americans in Miami 
and resulted in a ?ve-game suspension without pay. Although Guillen 
deserves the reprimands from enraged citizens, he does not deserve 
to be suspended for his comment.
While his viewpoint was inconsiderate of the Cuban-Americans 
in Miami who have lost family and 
property to Castros rule, he had no 
intention to make a political statement or endorse Castros atrocities.
Instead, the statement was at 
most an attempt at humor gone 
wrong. In the article Is Castro 
Cuban-Americans Hitler? in the 
Huf?ngton Post, Charles Garcia, CEO 
of Hispanic merchant bank Garcia 
Trujillo, said Guillen is legendary 
for putting his foot in his mouth. 
He has a reputation for saying absurd things, which is simply what 
happened during his interview with 
Time magazine.
Guillen was quick to apologize 
and make clear that he admired Castros ability to evade death, not his 
inhumane actions. Guillens apology 
and insistence on returning to Miami to answer questions show that 
he did not mean harm to those affected by Castros reign. 
The embarrassment he has faced, 
even after his apology, is a proper 
way to stress the need for sensitivity when discussing controversial 
subjects, but such embarrassment is 
punishment enough.
There is also Guillens freedom 
of speech to be protected. Everyone 
in the United States has the right to 
voice his or her opinions. 
There are many examples of 
controversy surrounding comments 
of other professionals in the sports 
world, such as Pittsburgh Steeler 
Rashard Mendenhalls tweets last 
year that decried the celebrations 
surrounding the death of terrorist Osama Bin Laden. However, the 
controversy did not result in any direct punishment from the Steelers 
management.
Guillen should not be professionally disciplined for voicing his opinion when other athletes have gone 
unpunished for equally controversial comments.
Ultimately, the controversy over 
Guillens interview should have resulted in a lesson for him and the 
American people, rather than a 
suspension. The reaction to Guillen is a reminder that one must be 
careful and considerate when speaking about issues that have not yet 
healed, including cultural and ethical wounds. 
It should not, however, be a lesson to teach Americans that unpopular opinions will be suppressed, 
just as Castro suppressed speech for 
the refugees who are now living in 
Miami.
Guillen should not be punished for remarksDesperation for tech too extreme
ELANA GOLDBERG
Junior Staffwriter
Its safe to say that people here at 
Carnegie Mellon adore their technology. However, a teenager in China 
who sold an organ for an iPhone and 
an iPad may have surpassed any Apple fanatic here.
On April 6, reports of the story 
broke from Chenzhou, a city in 
Chinas Hunan province. A teenager 
with the surname Wang wanted an 
iPhone and an iPad. The black market wanted a kidney. Five people 
helped 17-year-old Wang surgically 
remove his kidney. 
This black market deal was a 
clean-cut procedure. It wasnt as 
though a handful of felons carved 
out his kidney with a pocketknife; 
there was a professional on board.
This group included a practicing 
doctor in addition to criminals, such 
as transplant organizer He Wei, who 
turned to crime after accumulating 
gambling debts. The group is currently being charged with intentional injury.
The procedure collected 220,000 
yuan, approximately $35,000. Wei 
distributed the money amongst the 
accomplices and medical of?cials 
who helped with the procedure. 
Wang received 22,000 yuan, approximately $3,500, in exchange for 
his kidney.
Exchanging an organ for cash is 
simply stupid, especially when the 
reason is to buy an iPhone and an 
iPad. Under special, extreme circumstances, selling an organ could 
be justi?ed. But selling a kidney 
to satisfy the need to keep up with 
the latest technology trend is not 
a necessity, and its de?nitely not 
worth the medical risk. 
Besides, what happens when the 
iPhone 5 comes out? There are only 
so many organs to go around for Apple products.
As shocking as it seems that 
someone would just sell his kidney in 
order to keep up with new technology, the most mind-blowing part of 
this story is the fact that Wang only 
received 10 percent of the pro?ts 
from selling his kidney. 
He was completely ripped off. 
Obviously he cant cut labor costs, 
but in the grand scheme of things, to 
receive such a small amount for such 
a huge procedure is not quite fair. 
Sure $3,500 is enough to pay for the 
iPhone and the iPad, and still have 
plenty of cash left over for fun Apple 
accessories, but is that really enough 
to suf?ce for the loss of a perfectly 
healthy kidney?
The moral of the story is that if 
youre going to sell your kidney, be 
smart and demand more for it  just 
kidding. 
The real moral of the story is that 
desperation for the latest and greatest technology is unhealthy. 
Wangs desire for Apple products 
is an example of extreme consumerism, and it represents the extent to 
which people try to keep up with the 
latest fad. 
Wang physically harmed himself 
to keep up with technology trends, 
and in the process, he lost a kidney, 
a deal, and his dignity.
PATRICK GAGE KELLEY
Is every e-book, or even every ebestseller, worth $9.99?
They arent. Have you seen what 
makes the bestsellers shelf? Half of 
them arent actually written by their 
authors and far too many seem to 
have editors who have perennially 
stepped out for a lunch break. 
Quality of content aside, what 
exactly is it I should be paying for: 
the authors blood, sweat, and ink? 
Should I pay three times as much for 
Haruki Murakamis 1Q84  three 
books published as a single volume, 
topping 900 pages  or should Julian Barnes Man Booker Prize-winner Sense of an Ending be discounted 
due to its brevity? 
Is it just a novel that is worth 
$9.99, or is a novella worth the same? 
If I serialize my story, do I make more 
or less? Are graphic novels the same, 
and what about non-?ction?
Should anyone even be publishing 
short stories anymore? As a society, 
should we just stop reading  especially on paper?
The book publishing industry is 
just one more 19th-century innovation disrupted by the rise of digital 
information transfer and ubiquitous 
computing devices. This transition, or 
more aptly revolution, shifted control 
of book pricing from physical and local bookstores to Amazon  not to a 
sea of competitive e-book sellers, but 
to a monolithic entity whose storage 
and distribution costs are negligent 
and who has much greater restrictions over post-sale transfers.
Through Amazon, e-books have 
been commoditized: $9.99 for every 
book. You purchase it and it cannot 
be transferred. You dont own a physical object, you cant hold it in your 
hand, you cant lend it to a friend who 
is browsing your bookshelves, and 
you cant donate it to the local library 
when you are done.
E-books, and the entire book 
ecosystem as a whole, is irreparably 
damaged by Amazons actions. The 
local bookstore and even the national 
chains are dying or dead. The quality 
of the book as an object and of the 
content itself as having worth is lost 
with the rise of e-books. 
Most unfortunately, the act of 
reading hasnt improved. You can 
carry thousands of books with you 
at a time, but reading and the associated actions of thinking or learning havent been bene?cially transformed in these early stages of our 
digitalization.
And this is why the Department of 
Justices lawsuit charging Apple and 
?ve book publishers with colluding to 
raise the price of e-books stings to the 
erudite loyalists among us. 
Bibliophiles who care for the book 
and the material inside it are not being helped by forcing book publishers to spend their already-limited 
resources ?ghting lawsuits that will 
save consumers an insigni?cant two 
dollars a book. 
If the publishers dont all settle 
(and it seems Macmillan and Penguin will rightfully not), the technology will have radically evolved to be 
so distant from the current landscape 
that the suits will be irrelevant long 
before they are resolved.
I offer this solution to the publishers: Tell Amazon if it requires  and 
if the Department of Justice regulates 
 the ability to set its own prices, 
then you simply cannot do business 
with them. 
Set up your own digital storefronts. Sell e-books in the formats of 
your choice for as much as youd like 
and as much as the market will pay. 
If you truly stand behind your 
agency model, ?ght for it by making 
it the standard. It provides clearer 
revenue models for digital sales and 
allows you the freedom you want.
It isnt collusion if you each handle it in the way that makes sense 
for your publishing house, your customers, and your books  keep the 
books the ?rst priority. 
And while you are building these 
digital storefronts, remind us, the 
readers, and society as a whole why 
you are still relevant at all in a world 
of simple and direct self-publishing. 
Prove you can innovate: Bring in 
the digital humanists, the internet 
publishers, the minds behind extending ePub and push out digital books 
that disrupt the act of reading. Give 
your e-books more than just re?owed 
text: Give them life.
Patrick Gage Kelley (pkelley@) is a senior staffwriter for The Tartan.
Book publishers need independent markets for e-books
Juan Fernandez/Staff Artist
Adelaide Cole/Art Editor
Sharon Kong
Design
Senior
Not having class.
Jason Rebello
ECE
Graduate student
Mobots.
Shilpa Balaji
Computer Science
Junior
Getting school off.
Min Xu
Computer Science
Graduate student
The booths.
Nadyli Nunez
Economics
First-year
Im excited for buggy.

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

April 16, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/sports  A9
SPORTS COMMENTARYPenguins struggle with Flyers
CARL GLAZER
Staffwriter
In their ?rst three games 
of the Stanley Cup Playoffs, 
the Pittsburgh Penguins offense has scored 12 goals. 
The problem is with their defense, which gave up 20 goals 
against the Philadelphia Flyers over the same time frame.
The playoffs opened 
Wednesday night at the CONSOL Energy Center. The Penguins came out strong, taking 
a commanding 30 lead after 
the ?rst period. After holding 
the Flyers to only one goal in 
the second period, the Penguins defense gave out. The 
Flyers scored two quick goals 
in the third and ?nished off 
the comeback with a fast goal 
in overtime.
The second game also featured the Penguins at home, 
following a similar script. The 
Penguins again jumped out to 
a 20 lead, helped by Captain 
Sidney Crosbys goal 15 seconds into the game. Although 
their defense was struggling, 
they also had leads of 31, 
43, and 54 before the Flyers took their ?rst lead of the 
game with less than 11 minutes left. The Flyers eventually won 85.
The Penguins now ?nd 
themselves down 30 in this 
best of seven series, needing to win two games on 
the road in addition to two 
games at home to end the 
Flyers season. As was common during the regular season, the Penguins offense has 
the ?repower to keep up with 
any team in the league.
Once the Penguins take a 
large two- or three-goal lead, 
they switch to a much more 
defensive style of play. However, this forces the team to 
play to their weaknesses.
The key for the Penguins 
to keep its season alive is to 
never let up. By continuing to 
attack and push the puck up 
the ice, the team can keep the 
pressure off their defense and 
minimize the shots on goalie 
Marc-Andre Fleury.
A team needs to play to its 
strengths, and for the Penguins that means pushing 
the puck into the Flyers zone 
and having an unrelenting offense. Unless the team realizes that no lead is safe with 
its defense, the season may 
quickly come to an end.
Womens tennis takes downDenison and Johns Hopkins
CARL GLAZER
Staffwriter
The No. 4-ranked womens 
tennis team took on the No. 
26-ranked Denison Big Red in 
Granville, Ohio, on Saturday. 
The Tartans continued their 
impressive season with a 72 
victory over the Big Red, improving their record to 143 
for the season.
First-year pair Bryn Raschke and Chelsea Motie, No. 
2 doubles, and sophomore Katie Cecil and ?rst-year Angela 
Pratt, No. 3 doubles, started 
the day off strong by winning 
their doubles matches 81 
and 82, respectively. The 
senior duo of Courtney Chin 
and Laura Chen at No. 1 doubles fought hard, but eventually lost the ?rst doubles in a 
tiebreaker 97.
As the day transitioned 
into the singles portion of the 
match, the Tartans took their 
play to the next level and won 
?ve of their six sets. At No. 1 
singles, Cecil won the ?rst 
game handily in straight sets 
62, 62. This win was followed by another victory from 
Motie at No. 3 singles with 
63, 63. Chen, No. 2 singles, 
then clinched the Tartans victory over the Big Red with her 
hard-fought comeback 67, 
61, 62. Even after the victory was sealed, the Tartans 
kept their foot on the gas with 
Chin, No. 4 singles, winning 
in straight sets 64, 63.
The only singles loss of 
the day was a tough battle by 
Pratt at No. 5, winning the 
?rst set in a tiebreaker before 
dropping the last two 63, 
63. Senior Cze-Ja Tam at 
No. 6 singles ?nished the day 
on a strong note for the Tartans by winning 83.
It was tough waiting all 
day to play and playing indoors with only four courts, 
but we were able to adjust 
and pull out a solid win, Tam 
said.
The Tartans took on 
No. 8-ranked Johns Hopkins 
at home on Sunday. The Tartans won 63. The Tartans 
compete next at University 
Athletic Association Championships  in Orlando, Fla.
Editors note: Courtney Chin is 
a staffwriter for The Tartan.
File Photo by Jonathan Carreon
Sophomore Katie Cecil won both singles matches in straight sets this weekend.
Courtesy of Dan4th on Flickr
The Penguins need to minimize shots on goalie Marc-Andre Fleury.

---------------------------------------------------

A10  thetartan.org/sports The Tartan  April 16, 2012
ATHLETE PROFILETitus credits his teammates
Jonathan Carreon/Photo Editor
ALEX TAPAK
Sports Co-Editor
After running track and wrestling in 
high school, junior Noel Titus made his way 
onto the Carnegie Mellon mens track and 
?eld team. Currently, Titus is a civil and 
environmental engineering major. I hope 
to be a Geotech engineer and do soil analysis, Titus said, speaking to his future career 
goals.
Titus is proud to be a Tartan. Going 
places and repping our school, no one here 
really knows what we do, Titus said.
This season, Titus hopes to improve his 
performance on the second day of University Athletic Association Championships 
(UAAs). My freshman and sophomore year 
I did well on the ?rst day, but struggled on 
the second day, Titus said. Outdoor UAAs 
are in two weeks at home for the track and 
?eld team. Currently, Titus is building up 
for his races. I hurt my hamstring, but it is 
feeling better now. I mostly need to not be 
intimidated, Titus said.
The most important competition of 
UAAs is at Washington University in St. 
Louis. They have a ton of depth in sprints 
and jumps, Titus said. At indoor UAAs, 
we tied for second place and we dont even 
have an indoor track.
One of Titus most memorable moments 
on the track was running the 4x400 meter 
relay. I had a rough day, I had bombed the 
60- and 200-dash, coach decided that I was 
going to run in the 4x400 relay, and that I 
was going to be the anchor and I dont usually run relays, so I was freaking out; it all 
worked out in the end. Doug OConnell, 
Ben Nealey, and Mike Standish took second 
place, Titus said.
Titus and the track and ?eld team have 
had a lot of fun together. One time in the 
shower, Ben saw a cockroach and shrieked. 
Then the cold water came on and he 
shrieked again, Titus said, laughing.
Titus ?nds a great deal of support from 
his teammates. Success is dependent 
on all the people who dont compete, because I wouldnt be able to motivate myself 
through all of the workouts without all of 
my teammates, Titus said.
Noel is one of the athletes on the team 
that everyone knows they can count on 
to come through in a pretty wide range of 
events when the pressures on. Its great to 
have that sort of presence and leadership 
out of a junior, said senior chemical and 
biomedical engineering major and teammate Robert Morhard.
WOMENS
LANE 1LANE 2LANE 3
1SDC CCIA CFringe C
2SPIRIT ASDC DApex A
3SigEp AFringe BCIA B
4PiKA ADeltaForce ASigEp B
5SDC BCIA DSPIRIT B
6Fringe ASigEp CSAE A
7SDC ACIA AAEPi A
MENS
LANE 1LANE 2LANE 3
1Fringe BSigEp CSPIRIT C
2PiKA BSDC DCIA D
3SPIRIT AApex AFringe D
4SDC CSigNu ACIA B
5SigEp AAEPi BFringe C
6SDC BSAE ACIA C
7PiKA ASigEp DSPIRIT B
8Fringe ACIA ADeltaForce A
9SDC AAEPi ASigEp B
FRIDAYS RACES
First heat at 8:10 a.m.
First heat at 9:40 a.m.
RECORDS
Women: 
2:25.60 SDC  2009
2:26.00 SDC  2009
2:28.14 SDC  2010
Men:   
2:03.30 SDC  2009
2:04.35 PiKA  2008
2:04.50 SDC  2008
SWEEPSTAKES2012
92 YEARS OF ENGINEERING & ATHLETIC EXCELLENCE
@cmu_buggy
COMPUBOOKIE
Special to The Tartan
Here we go, Buggy lovers: Its that time of the year 
again. Spring is in the air and 
that means Carnival is right 
around the corner, so lets 
make some predictions, shall 
we?
The same number of teams  
as last year are out there, but 
we have two new additions 
and two organizations no longer running. An upstart group 
of ?rst-years and a fraternity/
sorority combo replace two 
dying organizations, each 
hoping to put on a good show 
in their ?rst sweepstakes race. 
With fewer newly-built buggies this year, free rolls have 
featured a bounty of opportunities for the returning teams 
to perfect their lines, which 
will make for one of the closest contested races in recent 
memory. Lets get on with it.
On the womens side, Im 
expecting more of the same. 
Rounding out the bottom 
of the pack will be PiKAs A 
team, with their progressively 
slower push teams. Finishing 
slightly ahead will be Sig Ep 
A and SDC B. SPIRITs women 
pushers have looked impressive during rolls and as long 
as their troubling mechanical 
issues dont show up on raceday, Im predicting a thirdplace ?nish. Fringes downhill times will prove to be too 
much for SPIRIT women to 
overcome. Fringe A will take 
second place, however, as this 
race has turned into SDC A 
against the clock. With superior pushers and a top-of-theline buggy, the SDC women 
will once again take home the 
title.
Moving on to the mens 
races, Im predicting a more 
tightly contested race than 
that of last year. Making the 
?nal cut in to Day 2 will be a 
surprising Sigma Nu, whose 
downhill times have been impressive and will make up for a 
group of slower-than-average 
pushers. Next, we will see a 
pair of B teams in PiKA and 
Fringe, who will simply be 
looking to provide insurance 
for their respective A teams. 
Barring any sort of issue in 
the Chute, the ?rst of SDCs 
three Day 2 teams will look to 
?nish slightly ahead of Fringe 
B. Coming in at sixth place, we 
will see our ?rst A team. Sig 
Ep A will rely on their group 
of strong and fast pushers 
to overcome a slower buggy. 
With spinouts looking like less 
and less of an issue at rolls, 
expect a very competitive race 
from SPIRITs A team, pushing them into a ?fth-place ?nish. PiKA A will try to rebound 
from a disquali?cation and a 
half-year absence, but will fall 
short once again and end up 
in fourth. The top two organizations will again compete 
for the three most important 
trophies.
Both Fringe and SDC have 
consistently put up the top 
times at rolls and each has 
looked ef?cient on the hills. 
However, with ample time to 
practice without the added 
commitment of testing a new 
buggy, I expect SDC to run 
cleaner races and eliminate 
mistakes that have plagued 
them in the past. Fringe A will 
fall back to Earth after a twoyear reign and ?nish third to 
SDC B and SDC A.
Thats all for me, folks. 
Good luck to all the teams. I 
will see you out on raceday, 
but you wont ever see me.
Editors Note: Compubookie is 
an anonymous entity who publishes yearly predictions about 
Sweepstakes winners. Compubookie has no af?liation with 
The Tartan.
AEPi: Robobuggy will forever be your greatest accomplishment.
Apex: One and done.
CIA: Tent location isnt 
correlated with buggy speed.
DeltaForce: Wanna sleep 
in on Day 2? Try Delt.
Fringe: Relying on other 
teams mistakes for three 
years running.
PiKA: No house to store 
that fourth place trophy.
SAE: You can put lipstick 
on a pig, but its still a really 
slow buggy.
SDC: Predicted to win, expected to lose.
SigEp: Chairman cant 
help your drop test.
SigNu: Getting behind 
guys used to be just for Sig Ep.
Predictions:
Mens: SDC A; SDC B; 
Fringe A; PiKA A; SPIRIT A; 
Sig Ep A; SDC C; Fringe B; 
PiKA B; Sig Nu A
Womens: SDC A; Fringe 
A; SPIRIT A; SDC B; Sig Ep A; 
PiKA A
Compubookie makes predictions
Mens tennis ?nishes 21
ALEX TAPAK
Sports Co-Editor
After the match was originally postponed due to rain, 
the mens tennis team took 
the court on Thursday against 
the Grove City College Wolverines. The Tartans swept 
the Wolverines with a 90 
win. This win brought the 
Tartans to 115 overall for the 
season.
Even with senior captain 
Jeremy King out due to injury, 
the Tartans swept doubles. 
At No. 1 doubles, ?rst-years 
Christian Heaney-Secord and 
William Duncan won 84, 
while the No. 2 duo of ?rstyear Thomas Cooper and 
sophomore Julian Pearlman 
won 82. At No. 3 doubles, 
?rst-years Vinit Palayekar and 
Roshan Sriram ground out a 
doubles win in a tiebreaker 
98 (72).
In singles play, the Tartans 
took every match in straight 
sets.
It was a great match that 
gave some guys a chance to 
play that usually dont, Pearlman said.
On Saturday, the Tartans 
travelled to Grandville, Ohio, 
to take on the Denison University Big Red. The Tartans, 
currently ranked No. 13, defeated Denison, which stood 
at No. 29. The Tartans fought 
hard for their 54 victory.
In doubles, despite Kings 
absence, the Tartans took 
the lead 21 with 84 wins 
from the No. 1 pair of junior 
Duke Miller and Duncan. The 
Tartans also got a 82 win 
at No. 3 doubles from ?rstyears Bryce Beisswanger and 
Heaney-Secord.
The battle continued in 
singles as Duncan grabbed a 
point for the Tartans with a 
62, 63 win at No. 3 singles. 
Junior Harsha Rao pulled 
out a three-set victory at No. 
4 singles with 64, 26, 61. 
The ?fth win to clinch the 
victory came from HeaneySecord in straight sets, both 
decided by a tie break 76 
(73), 76 (86).
Yesterday, the men took on 
Johns Hopkins University and 
lost 81.
Editors note: Jeremy King is a 
staffwriter for The Tartan.
Jonathan Carreon/Photo Editor
First-year Christian Heaney-Secord wins at No. 2 singles to clinch the match against Denison for the Tartans.
2011 WINNERS
Women: 
2:34.96 SDC A
2:35.07 Fringe A
2:41.12 PiKA A
Men:   
2:05.08 Fringe A
2:06.18 SDC A
2:09.67 SDC B

---------------------------------------------------

Reunions Weekend 2012
In honor of the reunions being held over Spring Carnival, The Tartan is featuring a brief review of past years for the one-year, ten-year, twenty-year, thirty-year, forty-year, and ?fty-year anniversaries. The articles printed within are abridged from The Tartans archives. 
File Photos  (from top, left to right) by: Guillermo Gomez, Celia Ludwinski, Kristen Severson, Guillermo Gomez, Tommy Hofman, Celia Ludwinski, Jennifer Coloma

---------------------------------------------------

B2  thetartan.org/special The Tartan  April 16, 201219611962
OCTOBER 4, 1961
Two of the more interesting personalities of Pittsburgh 
are Mr. and Mrs. Roy Hunt. 
Although neither was born 
in Pittsburgh, each moved 
here early in life and attended 
Pittsburgh schools. The Hunts 
were married on June 11, 
1913, and have four sons.
Mrs. Hunt is a bibliophile and horticulturist; she 
has combined these interests in amassing a library of 
rare books on botany, ?ower 
prints, and original drawings, 
which make up one of the 
most important private collections in the world.
She is noted as a craftsman, artist, hostess, gardener, 
patroness of the arts, and collector. Not content to merely 
collect books, she became a 
bookbinder under the tutelage 
of the celebrated T. J. CobdenSanderson of London. A large 
number of volumes in her library were bound by her.
Mrs. Hunt
Among her many honors, Mrs. Hunt received an 
honorary Doctor of Laws degree from the University of 
Pittsburgh in 1954, and the 
honorary degree of Doctor of 
Humane Letters from Carnegie Institute of Technology in 
1960. 
She is a charter member 
of the Guild of Book Workers, 
the Limited Editions Club of 
New York, the Herb Society of 
America, and the Garden Club 
of Allegheny County.
She has had numerous exhibitions of selections from 
her collection at art museums 
and universities, and has lectured on bookbinding and 
botanical subjects. The Rachel 
McMasters Miller Hunt Botanical Library, in the penthouse 
surmounting Hunt Library, 
houses Mrs. Hunts magni?-
cent collection.
Mr. Hunt
In 1903, Mr. Hunt graduated with an A.B. degree from 
Yale University and began his 
full-time, life-long career with 
Alcoa. In 1928, he was elected 
president of the company, a 
post he held for 23 years until he was elected chairman of 
the Executive Committee in 
1951.
Mr. Hunt is also director 
of the Mellon National Bank 
and Trust Company, National 
Union Fire Insurance Company, and the Pittsburgh Testing 
Laboratory. His active interest 
in education, health, and welfare is re?ected in trusteeships 
with Carnegie Institute, Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Shadyside Academy, Grove 
City College, Elizabeth Steel, 
Magee Hospital, and Pittsburgh Skin and Cancer Foundation. Mr. Hunt is a member 
of numerous clubs and associations both here and in New 
York.
In 1943, Mr. Hunt received 
the American Society for Metals medal for advancement of 
research; in 1944, an honorary Doctor of Law degree from 
the University of Pittsburgh; 
and in 1953, a similar degree 
from Oberlin College.
On October 29, 1958, 
Carnegie Institute of Technology announced a gift of 
$2,800,000 from Mr. and Mrs. 
Hunt for construction of a new 
campus library. Ground was 
broken in the fall of 1959.
Mr. and Mrs. Hunt donate $2.8 million, botony collection for centralized library
MARCH 28, 1962
Every year on Techs campus and on campuses all over 
the country, Alpha Phi Omega 
chapters sponsor a unique 
service project  the Ugliest 
Man on Campus contest. 
Instead of deciding which 
girl is the prettiest on campus, 
this selection will determine 
the ugliest male. 
Anyone possessing the following three quali?cations 
is eligible to enter UMOC: he 
must be a male, he must be a 
Tech student, and he must be 
ugly. To preserve some degree of competition, faculty 
members have been declared  
ineligible.
Any student organization 
wishing to enter a candidate 
must submit its name into 
UMOC, Box 282 campus mail 
before noon April 7. If you 
cant seem to ?nd an ugly 
member in your organization, 
why not look in the mirror? 
Then talk one of your friends 
into running before he realizes that you would make the 
best choice. Pictures will be 
taken by Alpha Phi Omega on 
April 14. Ballot box stuf?ng 
will not be tolerated; rather, it 
will be encouraged. 
Everyone will be permitted 
to vote as often as he wishes 
at the cost of 1 cent per vote.  
This makes it possible for 
those who are always at their 
wits end deciding whom 
to vote for in the numerous 
queen elections to split their 
votes. 
The proceeds will be given 
to Campus Chest to be distributed to worthy charities. 
A large number of candidates strongly supported by  
their sponsoring organizations 
will result in an enthusiastic 
and generous support by the  
voters.
Tech men eligible for ugly man contest
APRIL 4, 1962
The Constitution Committee of Student Congress was 
formed to continually study 
the constitution of Techs student government, to keep it 
up-to-date and practical.
The constitution itself de?nes the various branches of 
student government and outlines their duties and powers. All students and student 
organizations are subordinate to this student government which the constitution 
de?nes. Such an important 
and powerful document must 
be carefully studied and revised to make sure that the 
student government works 
for the student body and not  
against it.
The Constitution committee is Congress method 
of accomplishing this. Each 
year, its members investigate 
the constitution for clarity 
and practicability and recommend changes to Congress 
where necessary. 
Occasionally a major 
change in Student Government is recommended and 
instituted, such as the new 
court system, which was established two years ago.
One of the duties of this 
years committee is to study 
this court system, now that 
it has been effect for a year, 
and revise the provisions 
which have been found to be 
impractical. Present members of this years committee 
include Mark Applebaum, 
Ralph Debussman, Marilyn 
Miller, John Mowry, Paul 
Pheneger, and the chairman, 
Jane Scott.
Student Congress analyzes constitution
FEBRUARY 14, 1962
Richard M. Cyert has been 
appointed dean of the Graduate School of Industrial Administration and William R. 
Dill appointed as associate 
dean. The appointments became effective February 1.
Professor Cyert has been 
at Carnegie Tech since 1948. 
He is currently professor of 
industrial administration and 
head of the department of industrial management.
Commenting on his appointment, Dr. Warner said, 
It is fortunate for Carnegie 
Tech that a man such as Professor Cyert is available to 
continue the ?ne work done 
by Dean Bach. Professor Cyert has been on the faculty 
of the Graduate School of Industrial Administration since 
its founding and has contributed much to its unique 
success. I feel certain that 
the school, under him, will 
continue the growth which 
has placed it among the ?nest business schools in the 
country.
Professor Cyert received 
his B.S. degree from the 
University of Minnesota and 
his Ph.D. from Columbia  
University.
Background
He has been director of a 
large scale research project, 
Behavioral Theory of the 
Firm, sponsored by the Ford 
Foundation, which is considered to be the ?rst of its kind 
employing an electronic computer as a simulation device 
in economics. As a result of 
his research, he expects to 
publish three books this year: 
A Behavioral Theory of the 
Firm, with J. G. March, Market Structures and the Theory 
of the Firm, with K. J. Cohen, 
and Quantitative Techniques 
in Accounting, with H. Justin 
Davidson. All of the books 
will be published by PrenticeHall.
Professor Cyert was recently elected vice president 
in charge of research and 
education of the Institute of 
Management Sciences and is 
chairman of the Institute's research committee. 
He is widely known among 
accountants and auditors as 
one of the few theoretical 
statisticians who has enough 
understanding of counting 
to place statistics in practical 
application in our ?elds.
Professor Cyert is a consultant the federal government, 
the Gulf Oil Corporation, 
and for the accounting ?rm 
of Touche, Ross, Bailey and 
Smart. He was the organizer 
of the original group developing the Carnegie Managment Game, which has been 
an unquali?ed success. He 
has written many articles in 
leading journals in the ?elds 
of economics, accounting, 
statistics, and management, 
and is co-author of Sampling 
Techniques in Accounting, 
Prentice-Hall, 1957.
Professor Dill
Professor Dill has been at 
Carnegie Tech since 1955. He 
received his B.A. degree from 
Bates College and his M.S. 
and Ph.D. degrees from Carnegie Tech. Since 1959, he has 
been assistant dean of the 
Graduate School of Industrial 
Administration.
He has written articles in 
many professional journals 
and a book, Managerial Decision Making, published by 
University of Chicago Industrial Relations Center.
At Carnegie, his main 
interests have been in the 
Management Game and in 
studying the application of 
the behavioral sciences administrative processes.
Richard Cyert appointed new Dean of GSIA
Steam tunnels provide passages
OCTOBER 18, 1961
If any Tech man is thinking of invading Morewood 
Gardens via the heating system tunnels, he had better 
give up on the idea unless 
hes prepared to do a large 
amount of digging. There just 
arent any tunnels leading 
into Morewood from any spot 
on the campus.
Have you ever wondered 
why the air above the vent 
across the street from Engineering Hall is so warm? 
Have you ever noticed that 
the snow is always melting 
in front of EH? The answer to 
these questions lies in Carnegie Techs heating system.
Duct Locations
Techs central heating 
plant is located in Machinery 
Hall on the west end of campus. A walk-through tunnel 
connects this plant with the 
Gym and Margaret Morrison. 
Within this tunnel there are 
pipes carrying steam at pressures of 50 and 100 pounds 
per square inch, a hot water pipe, and condensate 
ducts. The 100-pound pipe 
branches off into EH, where 
the pressure is reduced. It 
then continues on to heat the 
Faculty Club and the Coal Research Lab.
The 50-pound duct leads 
straight under the Fine Arts 
buildings, where it branches 
off into two directions. 
One branch goes directly 
into the Library and GSIA, 
while the other continues ahead until it branches 
into the Gym and MMCC.  
The MMCC branch divides 
into two sections, one which 
heats the grad dorms and the 
other which heats Donner 
Hall, the mens dorms, and 
the houses along the west 
side of Margaret Morrison 
Street. 
There are condensate 
tanks located at four spots on 
campus where water collects, 
to be returned to Machinery 
Hall. A hotwater pipe in the 
tunnel serves AH, FA, EH, 
and MMCC.
Electrical Systems
The school electrical system follows much the same 
pattern as the heating system. It was installed in 1950 
at a cost of $200,000. The 
system converts a 22,000-
volt current into usable AC 
and DC sources and outlets.
Extensions of the power 
system have been proposed 
to cross the cut and enter 
Morewood Gardens. It is estimated that the school could 
save at least $4,000 per year 
in power bills, but whether or 
not this would offset the cost 
of construction is another 
matter.
Greek Sing consists of song and dance
MARCH 14, 1962
Techs annual Greek Sing 
Weekend will be held this 
coming weekend, March 16th 
and 17th. Greek Sing, the 
sorority and fraternity competition, will be held Friday, 
March 16th, at 8:00 p.m. in 
the Carnegie Music Hall. 
Greek Swing, a semi-formal dance, will be held Saturday, March 17th from 9:00 
p.m. till 12:30 a.m. in Techs 
gym with music by Walt 
Harpers Band.
Co-chairman for the 
weekend are Sue Weishauss, 
Alpha Epsilon Phi, and Phil 
Andrew, Delta Upsilon. Decorations for the dance are being taken care of by Linda 
Cover and Bobby Wordtt, 
Chi Omega; and all sorority 
pledges are to help put up the 
decorations.
The seven judges for the 
competition have already 
been given music that each 
group will sing. This music is 
prejudged for dif?culty, musical worth, and quality. 
On Friday evening each 
group will be judged for interpretation and performance 
(intonation and diction). In 
addition to the sororities and 
fraternities, Sigma Alpha Iota 
and Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia 
will perform.
On Saturday evening at 
11:15 p.m., the ?rst, second, 
and third place winners of 
both the fraternity and sorority competition will be announced and trophies will be 
awarded. At that time the sorority and fraternity scholarship trophy winners will also 
be announced.
If you cant 
seem to 
?nd an ugly 
member in your 
organization, 
why not look in 
the mirror? 
File Photos
The Hunts donated $2.8 million and a large botany collection for the construction of the Hunt Library.
File Photo

---------------------------------------------------

April 16, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/special  B319711972
Carnival to feature paper airplanes
Mosque bans CMU concerts
Manager claims layout of CMU 
bookstore invites shopliftingPolitical group outlines platform 
Science Hall offers centralized location
APRIL 11, 1972
The 1972 Spring Carnival 
paper airplane contest will be 
held on Saturday, April 22, 
at 2:00 p.m. in the gym. The 
contest is open to Carnegie 
Mellon students, faculty, and 
staff.
Construction: Acceptable 
materials in the construction of airplanes are paper, 
glue, and tape. There is no 
minimum or maximum size 
requirement. All entries must 
?y, i.e., if the judges decide 
that a planes ?ight is due 
solely to the initial propulsion, it will be disquali?ed. 
The only source of propulsion is to be the hand(s) of 
the pilot(s). There are four 
categories of competition. All 
entries will be launched from 
the stage. Materials will be 
supplied at the gym.
1. Accuracy: Contestants 
will be allowed to choose 
any target distance greater 
than or equal to 25'. The contestant will then throw his 
or her one entry twice from 
the stage. Score is computed 
as the sum of the distances 
of the nose of the plane to 
the target post. The lowest 
score wins. Measurements 
will be made to the nearest  
half-inch.
2. Time Duration: Contestants attempt to achieve the 
greatest airborne time. Time 
is de?ned as the sum of time 
durations, from release to 
complete stop, of two ?ights. 
Planes with glide-parachutes 
and other similar devices are 
not eligible.
3. Acrobatics: Contestants 
will try to put on the best acrobatic show. The decision of 
the judges will be qualitative 
and ?nal. One try per entrant.
4. Distance: Contestants 
attempt to achieve the greatest travel distance as measured perpendicular to the 
stage front. The score will be 
the sum of two ?ights. The 
highest score wins.
Contestants may enter as 
many events as they wish but 
may make only one entry in 
each event. Five dollar prizes 
will be awarded to the winner of each event. However, a 
contestant is only eligible for 
one prize.
OCTOBER 21, 1971
As a result of last Friday 
nights Allman Brothers concert, the management of the 
Syria Mosque has banned 
any further Carnegie Mellonsponsored major rock concerts from that hall. Consequently, it is doubtful that the 
Activities Board will be able 
to sponsor any major concerts 
after the upcoming Virgil Fox/
Pablo's Lights concert.
The Allman Brothers 
concert was stormed by 
approximately 400 gate 
crashers. The crowd was 
informed that no more seats 
were available. A few left; 
the rest tried to enter illegally 
by breaking windows and 
removing window frames, 
or by charging the doors. 
One door was broken off its 
hinges. Some ticket holders 
opened doors from the inside 
for the gate crashers.
The Activities Board had 
hired six off-duty policemen 
for crowd control. But eventually, 48 Pittsburgh policemen 
were called to the scene.
After the concert began, 
the police surrounded the 
theater to cover all entrances. 
But the gate crashers persistently circled the building 
until they could ?nd a weak 
spot in the police line through 
which to charge a door.
The police refused to disperse the crowd until a law 
was broken and an of?cial 
complaint ?led. Half an hour 
after the concert started they 
cleared the streets by threatening with billy clubs and 
dogs. 
No one was hurt or 
arrested, however, and most 
of the ticket holders inside 
the Mosque were not aware 
that anything irregular was 
happening.
The management of the 
Mosque blames Carnegie 
Mellon on two counts, even 
though the majority of gate 
crashers were not from the 
University. It claims the Activities Board should have hired 
more security, and that the 
concert should not have been 
advertised off campus.
The off-campus publicity 
consisted of an ad in the University of Pittsburgh newspaper and one radio spot on 
WDVE-FM.
A similar, though less serious, incident occurred last 
spring at the Carnegie Music Hall when the Activities 
Board presented B. B. King. 
The management of the Music Hall used minor incidents 
as an excuse to ban future 
Carnegie Mellon rock concerts from that hall.
Even if Friday nights ?-
asco had been minor, it would 
have been suf?cient cause to 
the Mosque for the banning 
of future rock concerts. Its 
employees are accustomed 
to nothing but ballet, symphony, and opera crowds, and 
were overwhelmed by the 
frantic efforts of rock fans to  
enter for free. 
One 20-year veteran ticket-taker had his eyeglasses 
shattered and lost his hearing aid when approximately 
20 youths hurled themselves 
through the door where he 
was stationed.
Before the evening was 
over, all the ushers had walked 
out. The light and sound technicians, who were under contract to work until 11:30 p.m., 
turned the lights on at 11:27. 
The Allman Brothers played a 
3-minute encore.
The concert was described 
as beautiful and a success, 
except that the sound system 
failed after Wet Willy, leaving the Allman Brothers to 
stand on stage for 40 minutes 
before they could begin. The 
sound system broke because 
of many of the gate crashers 
in the aisles were sitting on 
the wires.
With the late start and the 
groups popularity, the concert would assuredly have 
gone on much longer if the 
lights hadnt been turned on.
Bill Iacono, director of the 
Activities Board, said, the illicit entry of several hundred 
people, coupled with the actions of many inside, was unfortunate for those of us who 
wish to see future high-cost 
entertainment at reasonable 
ticket prices.
The Activities Board feels 
that in the future it might con?ne itself to lectures, plays, 
?lms, and coffeehouses since 
the problems increase with 
every concert. 
If a person is interested in 
attending rock concerts there 
are several local promoters 
who present, on average, 2 
concerts a week open to anyone who can afford them at 
$6 to $8 a ticket. And if one 
cant afford them, he or she 
can crash them which is even 
less expensive than the average $3 ticket for a Carnegie 
Mellon concert.
Of course, Iacono said, 
this type of crowd reaction 
could jeopardize Skibo Ballroom activities as well. The 
Activities Board is not willing 
to become a police organization. It is a non-pro?t entertainment organization which 
can no longer ?nancially afford to sponsor rock concerts 
at discounted ticket prices if it 
must contend with the threat 
of vandalism and the extra 
cost of security.
There is now no concert 
hall within easy access to 
Carnegie Mellon in which an 
Activities Board-sponsored 
rock concert can take place.
OCTOBER 28, 1971
According to the manager 
of the Carnegie Mellon bookstore, an estimated 2% to 3% 
of its total sales is stolen. This 
amounts to about $14,000 or 
$15,000 a year.
Mr. Charles Floyd, manager of the bookstore, noted that 
these ?gures have remained 
constant for the last few years 
and that they are no better 
or worse than the reported 
?gures of other on-campus 
bookstores.
Mr. Floyd also noted that 
the biggest dollar loss in stolen merchandise is that lost 
on stolen textbooks. He said 
that this was simply because 
textbooks are expensive and 
that every student has to have 
them. Other items frequently 
stolen are ?lm and small, 
hard-to-mark supplies.
When asked if there were 
any ways to stop theft, Mr. 
Floyd said that all he could do 
was keep an alert staff and remind students that strong disciplinary action will be taken 
against those who are caught.
He mentioned that the 
present layout and location 
of the bookstore invites shoplifting, and hopes that when 
the addition to Skibo is built, 
it will include a properly designed bookstore. Losses in 
textbook inventory do not 
now threaten the standard 
10% textbook discount.
Mr. Floyd noted that several other campus bookstores have resorted to overthe-counter sales in order to 
cut theft rates and maintain 
the 10% textbook discount.  
Carnegie Mellons bookstore 
has been self-service since 
1948, and has no plans of going to over-the-counter sales.
MARCH 21, 1972
After a few years of working on a hodge-podge of issues with no general focus, 
the Carnegie Mellon Revolutionary Alliance has worked 
out a political perspective 
that will give direction to its 
actions. Included in the perspective is:
	A quick description of the 
fact that most problems 
existing a few years ago, 
when there were more 
massive protests, still exist, and many have gotten 
worse.
	An analysis of the shortcomings of past movement 
activities and problems 
that exist with various 
groups, such as alternative 
institutions, muckraking, 
anti-war and anti-repression groups, and electoral 
groups.
	An analysis of power in 
America and the connections of state monopoly 
capitalism with societal 
problems.
	A discussion of the counter 
culture. How is it progressive or reactionary?
In the near future, the 
Revolutionary Alliance will 
be working on the production of a manual for material 
and psychological survival in 
Pittsburgh. It will be participating in the April 1 Mobilization in Harrisburg, to coincide 
with Kissenger Kidnap Conspiracy trial and the April 12 
Anti-War Mobilization in New 
York. The Alliance is trying to 
get together groups of radicals from different ?elds, to 
bring the works of alternative 
groups such as the Computer 
People for Peace to the campus. Finally, the Revolutionary Alliance will be dealing 
with campus issues such as 
budget cuts, layoffs, and the 
?ring of politically active faculty members.
Carnegie Mellon Revolutionary Alliance will be having its next meeting Wednesday, March 22 in room 56, 
Skibo at 4:30 p.m.
SEPTEMBER 16, 1971
There are more and better 
facilities here than were available at Scaife Hall, observed 
Harry Rowell, Assistant Director of the Computation Center about that center. But he 
might just as well have been 
speaking of Science Hall, the 
newly opened building that 
houses the Computation Center.
Located directly behind 
Doherty Hall, Science Hall 
makes for an imposing new 
structure on campus. Entering 
through the main entrance 
(onto the ?fth ?oor, oddly 
enough) one is immediately 
and agreeably impressed. 
My initial impression was 
that, unlike most buildings 
located on the Carnegie  
Mellon campus, this one has a  
pleasant, even cheerful, 
atmosphere. 
But on further examination one cant keep a slight 
negative note from infringing. 
After a while, gray concrete 
becomes monotonous and a 
general feeling of drabness 
encroaches.
Science Hall does have 
some important advantages 
in its favor. First, and most 
obvious because of its very 
size, there is far more space 
for everything. Classrooms 
are larger. Staff members can  
now be allotted of?ce space. 
There is even room for a minilibrary devoted to scienti?c 
and technical materials. Three 
elevators take students from 
?oor to ?oor, and various 
small but comfortable lounges 
are available for the students 
convenience.
The buildings biggest plus, 
though, is its location. Unlike 
Scaife Hall, which housed 
many of the features, particularly the Computation Center 
now incorporated in Science 
Hall, the new eight-story 
building is more centrally located and far more accessible 
to the students who will use it.
Science Hall is open 
around the clock for anyone 
wishing to take advantage of 
its facilities. The building is 
still not completed, as some 
minor touches are yet to be 
added.
File Photo
The Science Hall offers new space for of?ces, larger classrooms, and a library for scienti?c materials. 
OCTOBER 21, 1971
Three University of Pittsburgh students have been 
charged with the shotgun 
robbery of a Carnegie Mellon 
student in his dormitory room 
last Monday afternoon.
James Schmidhammer, of 
111 Scobell Hall, was beaten, 
bound, and robbed of $40. He 
was taken to Shadyside Hospital, where he received six 
stitches in his face.
Two of the suspects were 
apprehended by CMU Security Of?cers immediately after 
the crime. The third suspect 
was arrested at his home two 
hours later by city police.
According to the police, 
the suspects carried the longbarrelled, 12-gauge shotgun 
to Schmidhammers room in a 
guitar case.
Schmidhammer told security that he was lying on his 
bed when he heard a knock 
on his door. 
Opening the door, he saw 
three masked people, and was 
immediately punched with 
brass knuckles in the left side 
of his face.
The punch knocked 
Schmidhammer to the ?oor, 
and the suspects proceeded to 
cover his mouth and eyes with 
adhesive tape, and to bind his 
wrists, knees, and ankles. 
Before his eyes were taped, 
Schmidhammer noticed a 
small revolver in the hand of 
one of the suspects.
His next contact with the 
revolver came when it was put 
up to his chin. One of them 
asked him where his money 
was. He told them it was in his 
wallet, which they took from 
his back pocket; then they 
ransacked his room.
Schmidhammers neighbor, Jack Cohen, had become 
suspicious when he heard the 
door slammed shut, and put 
a glass up to the wall to listen 
inside. Convinced that there 
was trouble, he tried to phone 
Security. But failing to get 
through by the school switchboard, he told some other 
residents about the trouble 
and went outside to ?nd a Security van.
Security alerted the city 
police and proceeded to  
Scobell Hall. Dorm residents 
began knocking on Schmidhammers door and calling 
his nickname, Schmitty. 
When there was no answer 
they knocked and called more 
loudly a second time.
The suspects went to the 
window to escape. As they 
jumped from the window, Security Director Taylor entered 
the room and found Schmidhammer. When the suspects 
landed, they found Security  
Coordinator Fred Schoettle. 
One was holding the revolver, 
and as he turned to Schoettle, 
Schoettle knocked the loaded 
revolver from his hand and 
put him under arrest.
The other two suspects 
?ed, one with the shotgun. 
The unarmed suspect was 
chased by students across 
Margaret Morrison Street, 
behind Donner Hall, to Devon 
Road where, exhausted, 
he was arrested by three 
Security Of?cers who had 
been noti?ed by radio that he 
was coming.
The armed suspect 
remained at large until his 
companions gave police his 
home address, where he was 
arrested two hours later.
The shotgun and the brass 
knuckles were found at the 
rear of Woodlawn Terrace.
The guitar case, which was 
left in the room, was found 
to contain one tire iron, one 
club, one hunting knife, and 
four shotgun shells. Commenting on all the equipment, 
Director Taylor said, the suspects have been watching too 
much TV.
Each suspect has been 
charged with burglary, armed 
robbery, and assault and 
battery, and one suspect has 
additionally been charged 
with larceny for stealing the 
revolver. Taylor says there is a 
good chance each will get off.
City police detained 
Schmidhammer on suspicion 
of narcotics found in his room, 
but tests on the items proved 
negative and Schmidhammer 
was sent back to CMU with a 
clean record.
Student robbed at gunpoint, three assailants arrested
The biggest 
dollar loss 
in stolen 
merchandise 
is that lost 
on stolen 
textbooks.
The punch 
knocked 
Schmidhammer 
to the ?oor, and 
the suspects 
proceeded to 
cover his mouth 
and eyes with 
adhesive tape, 
and to bind his 
wrists, knees, 
and ankles. 

---------------------------------------------------

B4  thetartan.org/special The Tartan  April 16, 201219811982
Kiltie Band nominated Best Dressed for plaid uniforms
NOVEMBER 3, 1981
Theyre at football games, 
concerts, and graduation, 
rain or shine. They are a big 
part of the ambiance and atmosphere of Carnegie Mellon 
University: the Kiltie Band. 
The band has been a part 
of this university since the 
1920s, but was only recently 
restarted four years ago after 
a 10 year absence.
The band consists of volunteers, generally non-music 
majors. Christine Kretz, a senior art major, is president of 
the band. The band is a musical outlet for the students 
of CMU, Kretz said. When 
you leave high school if youre 
not a music major, you pretty 
much forfeit all of your musical activity. Its a social thing 
 its a lot of fun.
This year the band was 
given new uniforms by the 
Alumni Association. They 
were custom made in the 
Carnegie plaid with fabric 
from Scotland. The Kiltie 
Band has been nominated for 
the best dressed band award, 
collegiate division, by the uniform manufacturers.
The bands shows are written by the music director, 
Warren Mercer, an alumnus 
currently directing music 
groups and bands at Carnegie Mellon University and 
North Hills High School. The 
administration of the bands 
activities is totally run by students, Kretz said.
There are two phases to 
the Kiltie Bands musical 
season: football games and 
the concert shows. The band 
plays one or two concerts a 
year and also plays at graduation. Band practices are on 
Monday and Wednesday afternoons and before games on 
Saturdays. The main recruitment that the band employs 
is an interest poll sent out to 
incoming ?rst-years.
Our idea is not that we 
go out there and look like 
the big blue band from Penn 
State or the Buckeye Band 
or anything else, Kretz 
commented. Were just a 
different sort of band. We like 
to march the best we can but 
we like to sound good. Theres 
something about going to a 
football game and being in the 
marching band that makes it 
all worthwhile.
NOVEMBER 17, 1981
Rarely can a person walk 
past The Original Hot Dog 
Shop in Oakland when its 
not busy. The Big O, as it is 
more frequently called, has 
been a favorite hang-out 
of Pittsburghs college crowd 
for many years now. And the 
business seems to be growing 
more and more every year, 
owner Sydney Simon said.
Simon, a Pittsburgh native, began the business in 
May 1960 along with his 
brother and partner, Morris Simon. Sidney had been 
working as a manager for 
fastfood restaurants before 
beginning The Big O. If I can 
do it for them, I can do it for 
myself, he said about deciding to start his business.
At that time, the Pittsburgh Pirates played Forbes 
Field and the team was advancing very well. The Simons thought that a new hot 
dog shop to accommodate 
the crowds in the area would 
be just a natural.
We started on a toothpick, Simon said. We didnt 
even have enough money to 
buy an exhaust fan. It was 
a struggle to open up. The 
brothers employed only three 
other people and together, by 
working 10 to 15 hours each 
they kept the shop open every day, 24 hours a day. Now 
the shop employs approximately 43 people and Simon 
has cut back his own hours to 
two or three a day.
Simon attributes his success of The Big O to the quality product we give. Everything in this place is quality. 
The Original is one of the few 
places to still offer hot dogs 
with natural casing rather 
than protein casing, which 
Simon considers to dry up 
the natural juices. Because 
no one else offered this kind 
of hot dog, the brothers decided to name the shop, The 
Original.
Over the 22 years he has 
been in the business, Simon 
does not believe that college kids have changed that 
much. 
Some graduates who 
used to frequent The O have 
come back as doctors and 
lawyers, and I recognize a lot 
of them, Simon said. A few 
have even called him asking 
for advice and assistance on 
how to open up their own 
places.
If you work hard, put in a 
lot of time, you can make it, 
Simon said about business. 
An average person without 
money or a college education 
holding on to the American 
dream can make it. That 
only happens in this country.
The Original: An Oakland tradition
OCTOBER 27, 1981
Dr. Richard Cyert, former 
dean of Graduate School of 
Industrial Administration, has 
been president of Carnegie 
Mellon University since 1972. 
Cyert, a respected economist, 
became president when the 
University was in severe ?nancial trouble; today Carnegie 
Mellon University has a very 
strong ?nancial base and solid 
educational programs. Yet 
questions exist about the Universitys physical condition, 
education philosophy, and 
research programs. Tartan 
editor Bob Leighty recently 
interviewed Cyert about his 
present and future plans for 
Carnegie Mellon University.
Tartan: At homecoming, you 
talked a lot about the ?nancial state of the university. 
How serious were problems 
in the past, and what steps 
were taken to solve these 
problems? Also, how do we 
look as far as the future?
Cyert: Well, when I became 
president in 1972, the university had just had three years 
of serious de?cits. Perhaps 
the total change in the ?nancial condition can be summarized by the two ?gures in 
?scal year ending 1972 which 
ended June 30. The university 
spent $796,000 on capital and 
it had a de?cit of something 
around $1.3 million. In ?scal 
year ending 1981, 9 years later, we spent over $ 12 million 
dollars on capital, and we had 
a surplus of $72,000. 
So that shows the progress 
that weve made; basically 
what weve done is to try to 
get better control over our 
budgets. In other words, when 
a college is given a budget, we 
have review quarterly to try 
to make sure that they live up 
to those budgets. When they 
are over their budget, we ask 
them to come up with some 
rule or some actions that are 
gonna bring it back into balance. 
Perhaps the biggest change 
that we made was to change 
the budgeting procedure. We 
start making an estimate of 
our income about a year and 
a half in advance. In other 
words, last August, we estimated how much income we 
were gonna have by 1983, 
and we just sent out in October a letter to the deans telling 
them how much money they 
have to spend for their budgets. So basically, with that, 
if we get budgets that are in 
balance and if we can manage 
to make sure that people live 
within their budgets, we have 
control on them.
Tartan: Why was it necessary 
for the tuition to rise so fast, so 
much?
Cyert: I would say that there 
has been a pretty signi?cant 
in?ation. Thats one factor. 
Secondly, we are trying to 
catch up in salaries with our 
faculty, and tuition doesnt 
quite pay for instruction cost. 
In other words, when you 
take our tuition, total tuition 
income was something in the 
neighbor of $27 million. Thats 
graduate and undergraduate. We take 10 percent of the 
undergraduate tuition out 
for ?nancial aid. So lets say  
that the undergraduate tuition income was somewhere 
around $23 million, and take 
that 10 percent out. The total 
instruction cost was something over $27 million, about 
$600,000 over. And thats 
including all our facultys  
salaries. 
We are trying to increase 
our faculty salaries at a signi?cant pace, and wed like 
our tuition to approximate our 
instruction cost, so in a sense, 
a good deal of the tuition increase goes either into student 
aid or into faculty salaries. 
The endowment income and 
our overhead for research are 
going to others like support 
services, libraries, ....
Tartan: What about student 
services? I noticed hearing some talk about needing a student union here 
and things like that. Do you 
feel enough money has been 
spent on student services?
Cyert: Well I would like to 
see more student services and 
student facilities. We did add 
another major person to the 
student affairs this year: Brad 
Walters. But I recognized that 
in many respects that Skibo is 
inadequate as a student union. 
And we are looking hard at 
that; were looking at some 
plans that had been made for 
the extension of Skibo back 
in the late 60s. They were 
supposed to pay an architect, 
because there are some plans 
there. But they were never 
able to raise the money to 
do it. Id like to look at that. 
Id like to get a ?eld house 
which I think would be good 
for faculty and students, and 
modern recreational facilities.
Tartan: One of the other 
things that people have 
talked about lately is housing. What are your thoughts 
concerning the short term 
and the long term housing 
problems weve been having?
Cyert: Well, for the short 
term, Ive asked Oscar Mayer 
to look for an apartment that 
we can rent; I dont want 
to be in the position where 
we kick upperclassmen out. 
I would hope that most of 
them would choose to live in 
some of these outlying dorms, 
but they would be in campus 
housing so they wouldnt be 
thrown out to the mercies of 
the community. I also want 
to have enough housing so 
we can house more graduate students. Weve had some 
bad experiences, apparently, 
particularly with minority 
students  minority graduate 
students. So I would like to be 
able to take care of that. Were 
starting to work on it now and 
were fairly con?dent that we 
will be able to solve that.
For the longer term we 
want to add another dorm. 
Weve made an application to 
HUD. They have a new program out and were asking 
for $3.5 million. Wed have to 
put $3.5 million of our own 
money in as well, or raise $3.5 
million. I think we can build 
a really nice dorm between 
Mudge and Morewood.
Cyert speaks on CMUs ?nancial stateContent of new CS degree discussed
FEBRUARY 16, 1982
Tentative planning is currently in progress for an undergraduate computer science major.
A group of six Computer 
Science faculty, headed by Dr. 
Mary Shaw, is establishing 
what would be the content of 
such a program. Once it has 
been decided what direction 
the ?eld and the department 
are headed, courses will be 
laid out. At this point, We 
will decide whether or not 
we should offer a degree,  
Shaw says. It is not even certain whether a B.S. or a M.S. 
degree will result. Right 
now we have the best Ph.D. 
program in the country and 
if we offer an undergraduate 
degree, we'll be dealing with 
the same quality. Any new 
degree will probably not differ radically from what is already in place with the MathComputer Science option.
The department has also 
recently made curriculum 
changes, which will be published in the new undergraduate catalog. Chief among 
the changes will be the elimination of 15-311 Software 
Engineering and 15-330 
Computer Simulation and 
Modeling Techniques. Most 
of the material in 311 will 
now be taught as 15-413. 15-
200, Advanced Programming 
Methods, has also undergone 
a major face-lift.
Isaac Asimov predicts future of housing and computers
SEPTEMBER 15, 1981
Isaac Asimov is respected 
as a science ?ction writer   
he has written 234 books   
and as a scientist. He received 
a Ph.D. from Columbia University and is a professor of 
biochemistry at Boston Universitys School of Medicine. 
He is currently writing a  
novel, several scienti?c  
books, and numerous other 
projects. Asimov is very interested in research and has 
many ideas about the future. 
Tartan editor Bob Leighty interviewed Asimov asking him 
about the world decades from 
now. 
Tartan: Keeping in mind some 
of the changes in energy and 
just some of the other things 
that are happening with our 
own population and such, 
what do you think will be the 
future kinds of homes we will 
be having, the future kinds 
of cars we will be having?
Asimov: I look forward somehow to a decentralized ... one 
in which the huge conglomerations of population wont 
be so necessary anymore. 
The tendency to decentralize will be a consequence of electronic communication of all kinds.
More and more were going to be able to do our work 
from our own homes and 
more and more it wont be 
so necessary to travel around 
because we will get all the information we need and exert 
all the control and regulation we need electronically. 
I personally think that 
there is a lot to be said for 
moving underground. If 
we can build our homes 
underground were really 
independent of the weather. 
As a result, in fact, the only 
natural catastrophe that can 
harm us underground are 
earthquakes. Nothing much 
we can do about that. And 
in that way we will get our 
weight off the Earth itself, 
leave the Earth to farms, 
parks, roominess; and make it 
easier and happier for human 
beings.
Tartan: One of the things you 
have just touched upon there, 
when you said about the decentralization, was computers. What kind of changes do 
you think personal computers 
are going to be making in our 
lives in the next few years?
Asimov: I imagine that, as 
homes become computerized, schools will be more 
a way of guiding people 
through self-education than 
anything else; and this is the 
best thing schools can do 
because as long as school is 
considered a force for actual 
education, youll have people 
in relatively large classes, all 
of them studying the same 
subjects at the same speed. 
Its a kind of mashing together of all kinds of different 
people with different personalities, different brains, 
different temperaments into 
the same mold, and very few 
people ?t it. 
If we all were forced to 
wear one size and one shape 
and one fashion of shoe, there 
would be feet that ?t in that 
particular shoe and almost 
everybody would have aching 
feet. 
And right now weve got 
very few people who just happen to ?t into the curriculum 
of the schools, and we have 
very many kids with aching 
brains, so to speak.
But if schools are a way 
of getting people together 
so they can talk about what 
interests them and so they 
could be guided in the directions they might want to go 
and then do a great deal of 
their work at home with their 
computers, that would be like 
having everybody with shoes 
with measure. And then we 
might have very few people 
with aching feet and very 
few kids with aching brains.
File Photo
Dr. Richard Cyert speaks about the rise in tuition, student facilities, and student housing. 
File Photo
Kiltie Band reintroduced the traditional plaid uniforms this year. 

---------------------------------------------------

April 16, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/special  B5
SEPTEMBER 9, 1991
Walter Cathie has an image problem. As associate 
vice president for ?nancial 
resources, Cathie knows that 
many students place the Of?ce of Financial Aid on a level 
about even with the Internal 
Revenue Service. We drive a 
lot of people through a funnel, 
ask for a lot of pieces of paper, 
and then we take those pieces 
of paper and scrutinize the 
hell out of them, he said.
But Cathie says the amount 
of paperwork completed by 
students and their parents 
each year has nowhere to go 
but up as part of a new gettough policy on grant money 
that he knows isnt going to 
win his of?ce any popularity 
contests  especially among 
those who try to fudge the 
numbers.
The problem is fraud, 
and in February of last year, 
Cathie and Vice President for 
Enrollment Bill Elliot decided 
enough was enough. We decided to do administratively 
what very few schools are doing, Cathie said. We decided 
to go very aggressively after 
fraud and abuse. 
Eighteen months later, he 
says its clear that roughly 
10 percent of the applications students and their 
families submit each year 
contain intentionally bogus  
information.
The impetus for the new 
crackdown, according to 
Cathie, is a disparity between 
available aid and student 
need, which has been increasing for some time. Paternal 
income, he says, has not 
kept pace with tuition and  
room/board increases in recent years. What you have is 
costs going up about $1,500, 
mom and dads ability to pay 
going up about $400, so you 
have a raw ?nancial need of 
about 1,100 bucks, he says. 
We dont have 1,100 more 
free dollars to cover it. Thats 
the problem. This has been 
happening for a long time, 
gradually. 
Cathie says that Carnegie Mellon has increased the 
amount of ?nancial aid given 
out, despite cuts in federal 
funds. The government has 
an abysmal track record for 
higher education, he said. 
We have fewer grant dollars 
now from the federal government than we had in 1979. 
For comparison, he points to 
the fact that in 1979, the University gave out $1,586,000 in 
student aid, or 10 percent of 
tuition income; last year, the 
?gure was $11 million, which 
is about a 19 percent return 
of tuition dollars, and Cathie 
says Carnegie Mellon will give 
out $12,785,000 this year, for 
a record of approximately 20 
percent of tuition income.
Now if you divide that 
by, lets say about 2,600 kids 
who have a need, youre going 
to come up with about $650. 
Thats the average amount of 
free money thats increased. 
Thats a long way from the 
over $1,000 [per student] that 
we need.... Whats happening 
is the ?nancial needs of our 
students are going up faster 
than the sources to meet the 
need.The problem of fraud, 
then, only aggravates this 
need. One of the most common attempts at beating the 
system is through the tax 
rolls. In these instances, Cathie says, the tax return we get 
is not the same tax return that 
goes to the IRS.
In such cases, he feels the 
problem lies in the powersthat-be in the federal government, where the ?nancial 
needs of students are ?rst 
assessed. With the current 
system, a majority of [the required information] is on the 
front page of the 1040, as far 
as income, Cathie said. If 
you understand tax law, and 
can take advantage of it, you 
can beat the system.
Currently, the government 
conducts random computer 
checks on about 30 percent 
of the students applying for 
aid on a national level. Cathie 
says that Carnegie Mellon will 
do the same with aid recipients here  sifting through 
the other 70 percent in the 
process.
Well get everyone before theyre a senior, he said. 
Sometime during those four 
years Carnegie Mellon will 
pay the fee and go get the real 
tax return to see if it matches 
up. If its phony, theres a real 
problem.
Even if the forms match, 
however, Cathie says the 
numbers often dont stand up 
to the test of basic math. If 
youve got $2,500 in interest 
dividends in your tax returns, 
I go in and say, at 8 percent, 
you have about $31,250 in the 
bank, he said. Now if you report $10,000, then Ive got to 
know the trick how you can 
have $10,000 in the bank and 
you can get $2,500 in interest 
dividends, because I gotta use 
the same investment ?rm!
Even in the midst of glaring inconsistencies, however, 
Cathie says that discretion is 
still the better part of valor 
in what he calls a very labor 
intensive process that is more 
of an art than a science. It 
can be legitimate. You may 
have taken out $21,000 to buy 
a new car, or to put a roof on 
your house, or pay legal expenses. So you have a lot of 
anecdotal information. 
A common source of red 
?ags, he says, are simply 
honest mistakes. There are 
people who dont intentionally cheat, but still dont give 
the right answers, because 
the form is a pain to ?ll out. I 
know it is.
Often, however, the case 
is more cut and dry. A trick 
unique to local students is 
securing aid based on the expectation of their living on 
campus, and then commuting 
to school from home.
Cathie also says that some 
39 percent of students on aid 
(about 1,000 students) list 
another family member in 
college. But by subsequent 
checking in cooperation with 
other schools, he says they 
have determined that somewhere between 12 and 19 percent of these alleged siblings 
turn out not to be enrolled.
Fake parental divorces are 
yet another example of abuse 
of the system. Knowing the 
?nancial gains of listing a 
single income, parents have 
lied about their marital status, 
said Cathie, adding that all 
it took to expose these cases 
was to request a copy of the 
divorce settlement. If they 
get divorced, then the federal 
government only counts the 
income with whom the student is residing. Typically its 
Mom. So you get aid based on 
Moms income and Dad could 
be a millionare.
Another way many students show lesser means on 
their aid applications is by 
claiming independent status. 
While Cathie says such declarations are sometimes valid 
(such as in the case of nontraditional students) he says 
abuse is the rule, rather than 
the exception, citing examples 
of students living in expensive 
off-campus apartments with 
no visible means of support.
Because of this, Cathie says 
Carnegie Mellon is forced to 
take the hard line: You can 
?ll out all the forms, and the 
government will accept you 
as independent, but Carnegie 
Mellon wont for purposes of 
our money, he said. Were 
not going to allow it to happen. Because the basic tenet 
is that an independent school 
has to use is, were going by 
Mom and Dads ability to pay, 
not their willingness ... well 
work with you, but youre not 
going to get additional grant 
dollars over the next student 
because your parents dont 
want to pay, while their parents are struggling.
Cathie believes this practice is especially widespread, 
citing government ?gures that 
list 60 percent of federal aid 
recipients as ?nancially independent. Now you look out 
there. Do we have 60 percent 
of the students going to college who are independent? 
Gimme a break, no way ... 
somethings the matter.
CMU cracks down on ?nancial aid fraud
Expansion of phone services in motion
MARCH 16, 1992
During spring break, 
Carnegie Mellon work crews 
will take the ?rst steps to providing students new ways to 
reach out and touch someone 
by beginning the installation 
of a new campus phone system to be completed over the 
summer. Beginning next fall, 
Carnegie Mellon will provide 
expanded telephone service 
to all University residences as 
a result of a move away from 
Bell of Pennsylvania toward 
Carnegie Mellon ownership 
of all Carnegie Mellon phone 
lines.
When the new system is 
?nished, Carnegie Mellon 
students will be able to enjoy 
options including call waiting, call forwarding, and conference calling.
SDC has wanted to get 
these options at a reasonable cost for a while, said 
SDC housing committee 
chair John DiCosola, but at 
the beginning of the year we 
talked to Bell and found out it 
wasnt possible with our current  system.
DiCosola explains that every University-owned room 
is equipped with two sets of 
phone lines  one set in the 
walls and one in the ?oors. 
Those in the walls are the 
property of Bell, while the 
lines running under the ?oors 
belong to Carnegie Mellon. 
The currently unused ?oor 
lines must be activated for 
the options to take effect, giving the University ownership 
of its telephone system and 
the ability to offer reliable 
and cost-effective services to 
the University community.
DiCosola is quick to point 
out that the phone upgrade 
will not result in higher room 
prices for next year. 
All expenses have been 
previously factored into this 
years room rates, keeping 
University residents from suffering more increases in their 
housing bills.
The services itself is a 
dollar a month, DiCosola 
said. The biggest cost we 
had to contend with was the 
purchase of the new phones. 
Housing will be providing 
most residences with new 
desk phones, as current 
phones are not compatible 
with the new options.
Although students will not 
see any signi?cant differences until the expanded phone 
services take effect next fall, 
hardware must be installed 
over spring break to prepare 
for this summers work. To 
begin the installation, crews 
must brie?y interrupt service 
on Saturday. Says DiCosola, 
The break shouldnt be any 
more than 10 minutes to an 
hour.
DiCosola insists that the 
system itself will prove an 
overwhelmingly positive aspect of campus life. There really are very few drawbacks. 
By using our own lines, we 
will even be able to get things 
?xed at a faster rate.
SEPTEMBER 16, 1991
The Carnegie Mellon Robotics Institute showed off its 
six-legged robot to the public 
by taking it out for a walk on 
Sunday. The Ambler, an acronym for Autonomous Mobile 
Exploration Robot, is unprecedented; nothing resembles it 
in the robotic kingdom, according to Eric Krotkov, a researcher in the Field Robotics 
Institute.
The Ambler is a prototype 
Mars probe capable of traversing a hazardous terrian while 
collecting and analyzing samples of a planets geophysical, 
meteorological, and biological conditions. The Ambler 
also has earth-bound applications, such as construction, 
timbering, hazardous waste 
management, and emergency 
response.
The Ambler project started 
four years ago from a design 
by then graduate student 
John Bares and William Red 
Whittaker, director of the 
Field Robotics Center. 
Since the Amblers completion two years ago, the Ambler team has been concentrating on getting the robot to 
walk. The ?rst year the Ambler learned how to take steps. 
Now it walks for long periods 
of time, said Reid Simmons, 
a researcher in the School of 
Computer Science. Simmons 
went on to say that Speed is 
not important; reliability is 
important in a machine that 
will be on Mars for two or 
three years.
The most unique feature 
of the Ambler is the way it 
walks. The body is propelled 
in a motion similar to cross 
country skiing, Whittaker 
said. A single leg reaches out 
in front of the others, places 
itself ?rmly on the ground like 
a ski pole, and then pulls the 
machine forward. The rover 
walks by itself, directed by an 
intricate system of cameras, 
laser scanners, and on-board 
computers.
According to Krotkov, the 
Ambler has two types of perception: passive and active 
perception. Passive perception is basically a television 
camera that takes an image 
which is de?ned by light. The 
active vision is a laser scanner which determines the distance of objects in the way of 
the Ambler. These two types 
of perception are combined to 
make a representation of the 
landscape so the Ambler can 
plan a route around obstacles.
The Ambler project re?ects an ongoing ambition 
of the National Aeronautics 
and Space Administrations 
(NASA) to explore space. It 
was mutual. NASA wants to 
explore space and [the Robotics Institute] lives, eats, and 
breathes robotics. It is a very 
bold and ambitious program. 
It is the most ambitious attempt to date to integrate, 
Whittaker said.
The Ambler project has 
cost $1.5 million a year for 
the past three years. This cost 
re?ects the money for the 
robot itself and the intricate 
software and hardware which 
drives the machine.
The Ambler is not yet 
scheduled to go to Mars, 
as it is still a concept prototype. The robot ?rst has to go 
through space quali?cation, 
which entails years of the testing of space-worthy components, miniaturization of the  
robot, and achievement of suf?cient reliability and endurance. 
We are looking for a leap 
into exploration, not just a 
step, Whittaker said.
CMU robot prepares for NASA trip to Mars
NOVEMBER 11, 1991
The Carnegie Mellon Student Senate adopted a resolution that attacks the policy of 
discrimination within ROTC 
on the basis of sexual orientation. The resolution, passed 
at last Tuesdays meeting, ultimately states that if ROTC 
does not end its discrimination policy, the University is 
to rid the campus of all ROTC 
programs by the 199596 
academic year.
The resolution was drafted by Christopher Wood, 
a junior psychology major 
and member of cmuOUT. 
Wood, along with Erik Altmann, chair of the Student 
Senate Campus Affairs Committee, and Mike Tomblyn, 
chair of the Academic Affairs Committee, approached 
the Student Senate with the  
resolution.
The resolution reads, 
Whereas, Carnegie Mellon 
Universitys Statement of 
Assurance states Carnegie 
Mellon University does not 
discriminate in admission, 
employment, or administration of its programs on the 
basis of ... sexual orientation; and whereas, ROTC, including Army ROTC, NROTC, 
and AFROTC, is directed 
by Department of Defense 
policy which prohibits gays, 
lesbians, and bisexuals from 
service.
The resolution goes on to 
state, It is hypocritical of the 
University to allow ROTC to 
discriminate. The Senate of?cially condemns Carnegie 
Mellon through the resolution and calls on the University to state in all publications 
that the University allows 
ROTC to remain in direct 
violation of its Statement of  
Assurance. 
The Senate also directs 
the University to replace all 
of the ?nancial aid that a student loses by being dismissed 
from ROTC due to his or her 
sexual orientation.
The Senate has resolved 
that they [will] prohibit 
ROTC or ROTC-sponsored 
organizations [from participating] in events funded or 
partially funded by the Student Activities Fee. This includes events such as Spring 
Carnival.
The Senate then directed 
the University to take measures against ROTC. The 
Senate called on Carnegie 
Mellon to prohibit the use of 
University facilities, ?nances, 
and resources by ROTC and 
ROTC-related organizations. 
Do not agree to any new or 
extend prior contracts with 
programs of the Department 
of Defense or its branches or 
any other organization which 
requires Carnegie Mellon to 
discriminate on the basis of 
sexual orientation.
Most importantly, the Student Senate resolution states, 
Be it ?nally resolved that if 
discrimination on the basis of 
sexual orientation by ROTC 
is not ended, the University is 
directed to terminate any and 
all contracts with ROTC programs by the end of 199596 
academic year, until those 
programs no longer discriminate on the basis of sexual 
orientation.
According to Altmann, 
the 1996 deadline gives time 
for all the ROTC students on 
campus now to graduate. Its 
the Universitys responsibility to ?nd alternate programs 
that dont discriminate, Altmann said.
Wood served in the military for two years and does 
not see the resolution as antiROTC, but rather as anti-discrimination. 
There is no other option 
than to threaten to remove 
ROTC if they do not change, 
Wood said. However, he feels 
that the University is not going to take a sudden and direct action against ROTC. I 
think ultimately the faculty 
and board of trustees will 
have to put pressure on the 
administration to change, 
he said.
The resolution passed the 
Academic Affairs committee 
and the Executive Board of 
the Student Senate by unanimous vote, and it passed the 
Campus Affairs committee 
unanimously with one abstention. 
When brought in front of 
the Senate as a whole, the 
resolution passed with a vote 
of 16-3-3.
Senate acts against ROTC discrimination
19911992
File Photo 
Carnegie Mellons Robotics Institute displays its Autonomous Mobile Exploration Robot, or Ambler, designed 
to probe Mars.

---------------------------------------------------

B6  thetartan.org/special The Tartan  April 16, 2012
20012002
JANUARY 21, 2002
January marked the 
groundbreaking of a ?vestory residence hall between 
Morewood Gardens and 
Mudge Hall. The dormitory, 
which will be built by Rycon 
Construction Company, will 
cost an estimated $12.5 million and house 259 ?rst-year 
students. In order to blend 
with the neighboring residence halls, the exterior will 
be constructed with a mix of 
red brick and concrete.
The dormitory should be 
completed in March of 2003.
The structure will be built 
with green design principles. 
University architect Paul Tellers said, It will be an energyand water-ef?cient building 
that conserves materials and 
resources, minimizes harmful effects to the environment, and maximizes living  
conditions.
The new dorm will be the 
third residence hall constructed by the East Campus Project 
since 1990.
The East Campus Project, 
which grew from an architectural design submitted by 
Michael Dennis, Jeffrey Clark 
and Associates in 1987, gave 
the campus many of its distinctive architectural features, 
including Gesling Stadium 
and the University Center.
However, the new construction has also caused 
some inconveniences. Molly 
McAshan, a sophomore psychology major, voiced concerns about careless construction workers. Im always 
walking by here, she said, I 
almost got spit on yesterday.
In some cases, Housing 
Services has attempted to 
mitigate students concerns. 
Noisy activities are not allowed to begin until 8 a.m. 
so students living nearby will 
not be awakened by the din 
of concrete-mixing machines. 
While there seem to be little 
problems with noise levels 
currently, one concern was 
expressed by Kevin Rohmann, a sophomore in biology and psychology, [Noise] 
may be more of a problem in 
the spring when people have 
their windows open. Director of Housing Services Tim 
Michael sent an email to all 
Mudge and Morewood residents to inform them a committee of staff and residents 
will be formed as a means of 
update on construction progress and for addressing issues 
and concerns.
CMU begins construction of 
Stever House residence hall
SEPTEMBER 17, 2001
In a poignant event marked 
by quiet simplicity, ?ve hundred students gathered at 
the Fence on Tuesday night 
to hold a candlelight vigil for 
the injured and dead from the 
mornings tragedy. Points of 
soft candlelight lit the lawn, 
as students took to the Fence, 
expressing their grief, condolences, and hopes through 
words, songs, and tears. The 
moving lyricism of Amazing 
Grace stilled the crowd into 
silence while the combined 
voices of the student body in 
My Country, Tis of Thee resonated with painful aptness 
into the night sky.
Many students shared their 
initial disbelief at the surreal 
news, and their ensuing panic 
as they desperately tried to 
contact family and friends 
in New York, while others 
thanked the student body 
for showing its support. One 
speaker recalled how she was 
touched by a random act of 
kindness when she was given 
a hug and word of encouragement by a complete stranger 
as she went to class crying. 
Others spoke of how they 
knew everything was going 
to be all right, as there is another home, here at Carnegie 
Mellon.
Being a New Yorker, an 
American, and a human being, I was shocked like everyone else and at a loss for 
words. Being so far away from 
home, I fear driving back to 
my city and not being able to 
recognize it anymore, said 
Andress Appolon, a senior 
drama major in BHA. As for 
post-shock, I have the same 
question thats on everyones 
mind  Whats next? I pray 
for the families that have lost 
loved ones and for the people 
Ive lost.
The candlelight vigil, in 
spite of the inherently tragic 
tone, was characterized by 
an exceptional degree of  
maturity. 
A large number of those 
who spoke touched on the 
importance of prayer and 
urged their peers not to perpetuate the cycle of hate and 
violence, but to keep those 
responsible for this terrible 
act in our prayers tonight. A 
majority stated that the war 
against terrorism was not a 
physical one and would only 
be won with unity and courage. It is my sincere hope and 
solemn prayer that we can ?ll 
our emptiness with love and 
turn our anger and terror into 
peace, said Student Body 
Vice President Brian Namey.
Dean of Student Affairs 
Michael Murphy closed the 
candlelight vigil with these 
words; In my twenty years 
here at Carnegie Mellon, I 
have never seen something 
so amazing, with the students 
and community coming together in a way like never  
before.
The fraternity Phi Kappa Theta, despite having  
guarded the Fence for the past 
weeks, invited everyone to 
paint the Fence with words of 
condolence and hope for all 
involved in the incident. Students strode forward to paint 
the Fence, traditionally a symbol of youth and exuberance 
on CMUs campus, in somber 
silence, with calls to Unity 
and Peace.
On Wednesday afternoon, 
a forum was held in the Rangos Room of the University 
Center, with the intention 
of letting students and staff 
voice any thoughts they had 
on Tuesdays tragedy. It was 
an intimate gathering, and 
many speakers suggested 
courses of action, from setting up a dialogue panel to 
raising funds for the American Red Cross. A few others 
expressed their grief and their 
sudden sense of vulnerability 
as their country that was once 
thought infallible was thoroughly violated.
On a different note, Provost Mark Hamlet lauded the 
activist spirit demonstrated by 
the school community and recounted how Carnegie Mellon 
had provided logistical support to the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation and offered to 
support the State Emergency 
Services. Determinedly, Hamlet said that it is the refusal 
to back down, to have classes 
today, to carry on, that will ultimately beat terrorism.
Most students, staff, and 
faculty have responded to 
the situation with fear and 
sadness, but also a quick and 
powerful call for peace and  
togetherness. 
My overwhelming sentiment is sorrow. Sorrow for 
the lives lost, for the injured, 
and for the family and friends 
of those most directly impacted. One cant help but be 
uplifted, though, by the courage and compassion of people 
throughout the world in response to the tragedy. It is demonstrative of not just what 
America stands for, but what 
all free societies stand for, 
Murphy said.
Besides uniting in American pride, CMU has also come 
together in campus pride. We 
have all lamented at one point 
or another how distinct our 
various ambitions make the 
discourse of our day-to-day 
lives, but no one could ever 
now question the underlying 
bond of the members of our 
University family, Murphy 
said. At our time of greatest need, our essential care 
for one another, and for others beyond the campus, have 
been unfailing. It will continue to be, I know.
Aseem Garg, a senior in 
social and decision sciences 
and the president of Amnesty 
International, hopes that the 
campus will maintain a mood 
of peace and community and 
will not lash out at those who 
are not truly responsible for 
the events. During this horri?c time it is important to 
refrain from scapegoating on 
the basis of race or religion 
and to ensure that the rights 
and freedoms that Americans 
hold dear are not trampled 
in our hunger for vengeance. 
Justice, not vengeance, should 
be the goal, he said.
Dewitt Latimer, a masters 
student in civil engineering and an Alpha Phi Omega 
member, left a meaningful 
message for the campus in his 
statement, acts of kindness 
on campus are a slap in the 
face for the people that committed the attacks.
A campus mourns September 11th
FEBRUARY 4, 2002
After receiving online 
feedback from over 700 students concerning a $40,000 
surplus, the Student Dormitory Council (SDC) has 
devised plans for the extra 
money.
By spending [the money] 
through ideas generated by 
residents, we hope to have a 
long-term positive effect on 
campus, said Anthony Balducci, SDC president.
During the fall of 2001, 
proposals were discussed by 
the SDC surplus committee.
[Those] that were considered feasible and bene?cial to the residents were 
approved and added to the 
online voting options, said 
SDC Vice President Ken  
Herman.
The plans included installing charcoal grills outside residence halls, whiteboards in various dormitory 
lounges, a clock or series of 
clocks around Kirr Commons 
re?ecting campus diversity, 
and indoor bike racks.
If any money remains after 
these projects are completed, 
it may be used to redesign 
the courtyard between Morewood Gardens and the fraternity quad or to purchase a 
Dance Dance Revolution machine. I expect to see results 
starting before midsemester 
break and continuing probably for the rest of the semester, Balducci said.
The SDC discovered the 
surplus in its budget when it 
switched over to the Oracle 
accounting system. Money 
that had been allocated to 
some projects during previous years was never fully 
spent.
All CMU students pay a 
student activities fee that 
goes straight to the Student 
Senate and then to all the 
different clubs. SDC, on the 
other hand, is funded by a 
$12-per-semester student 
dormitory fee. The SDC considered directly refunding 
the surplus money to students, but determined that 
this was not feasible.
Since the bulk of the surplus did not originate last 
year or the year before, it 
would not have been a return 
of the money we had given 
the surplus to this years residents, Balducci said.
The improvements will 
impact a wide range of campus facilities including both 
dormitories and the University Center. Since Kirr Commons is a popular haunt for 
transients, student voters 
favored installing clocks 
around the circular lounge.
A series of clocks  each 
depicting a major international time zone  could re?ect student diversity, said 
Sameer Rathod, sophomore 
information systems major 
and SDC member.
SDC will install charcoal 
grills near residence halls 
like Scobell, Henderson, 
Morewood Gardens, Doherty 
Apartments, and Boss and 
McGill. The charcoal box 
grills currently at Donner and 
Mudge House are often reserved for campus events.
These new grills would allow small groups of students 
to cook outdoors at their leisure. 
In addition, Resident Advisors could host gatherings 
for their respective ?oors 
without having to borrow 
pan charcoal grills or request 
a larger facility.
Perhaps the most peculiar 
project voted for by students, 
a Dance Dance Revolution 
machine, is a game in which 
players must mimic the direction of arrows on a screen 
with their feet by moving 
between four pressured foot 
pads.
Some students feel SDC 
should spend the surplus on 
more practical and immediate dormitory renovations 
rather than investing in recreational ideas such as a Dance 
Dance Revolution machine.
Surplus should be spent 
on CPS (Central Property 
Services, the organization in 
charge of janitorial services 
at Carnegie Mellon), said 
junior music major Joellen 
Miller.
Students and SDC allocate $40,000 for campus renovations
AUGUST 27, 2001
This fall, Carnegie Mellon will become the largest 
purchaser of wind-generated 
electricity in the country, a 
purchase that has earned the 
University a Green Power 
Leadership Award from the 
Environmental Protection 
Agency.
The one-year contract 
will provide ?ve percent of 
the Universitys total energy 
and cost $81,000 more than 
electricity from fossil fuels 
or other traditional sources. 
CMUs agreement was made 
with Community Energy, Inc., 
a distributor of renewable 
energy, and Environmental 
Defense, a nonpro?t organization that studies environmental issues.
Developing new technologies, policies, and practices 
to protect and enhance our 
global environment is one of 
our strategic priorities, said 
University President Jared 
Cohon. Cohon, who has a 
background in environmental 
studies and civil engineering, 
added that the University is 
committed to improving environmental quality and providing a model for other universities and organizations.
The wind-generated electricity will come from 1.5 
megawatt wind turbines at 
the Exelon-Community Energy Wind Farm at Mill Run 
in Fayette County, 40 miles 
southeast of Pittsburgh. The 
farm is the largest wind farm 
in the eastern U.S. CMU will 
purchase 4,778 megawatthours from the turbines.
A University Challenge 
is being conceived to increase 
environmental awareness and 
practices on campus and to 
encourage students, faculty, 
and staff to conserve. The 
goal is to help offset the 48 
percent premium CMU is paying for the wind power.
The challenge will decrease operation costs by encouraging recycling habits 
and using different lighting 
implementations in campus 
buildings. Innovative ideas 
for bene?cial environmental 
practices will be rewarded 
with gift certi?cates. A website will track ideas, suggestions, and awards.
Rising energy costs and 
environmental concerns associated with coal-generated 
electricity have caused an increased interest in alternative 
forms of energy. Wind energy 
is one of the fastest growing energy alternatives, and 
it provides several environmental advantages over the 
use of fossil fuels. However, 
wind-generated power poses 
several problems that prevent 
it from being able to replace 
traditional sources on a large 
scale. Windmills, for instance, 
are expensive and require a 
lot of maintenance.
There has been a massive 
backlash that the wind generators are unsightly, said 
Cliff Davidson, director of the 
CMU Environmental Institute 
and member of the environmental practices committee 
that made the decision to purchase wind power. Davidson 
added that people have complained about the generators 
being noisy and dangerous.
Despite costs to the University and safety and aesthetic concerns about wind 
turbines, the wind power 
purchase is one step in line to 
a much larger goal for CMU. 
The University can move society towards a sustainable 
state, Davidson said.
CMU to become largest consumer of wind energy
File Photo
Fraternity Phi Kappa Theta invited the community to paint the fence with words of condolence and hope. 
File Photo
Construction of the new residence hall began in January 2002. 
Developing new technologies...
to protect and enhance our 
global environment is one of our 
strategic priorities.
Jared Cohon
University president

---------------------------------------------------

April 16, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/special  B720102011
OCTOBER 25, 2010
This year, Hunt Library 
will celebrate its 50th year on 
campus  and students can 
expect not only a birthday 
celebration with cupcakes, 
but also a substantial change 
to the exterior of the building. In recognition of the librarys 50 years of service to 
students and the community, 
the Hunt Foundation will be 
funding the installation of 
permanent exterior lighting 
similar to that of the Randy 
Pausch Memorial Bridge.
The additional lighting 
was proposed by the Hunt 
Foundations Bill Hunt. Bill 
Hunt, who is a grandson of 
those who gave us Hunt Library, was on campus one 
night, and he noticed that the 
library was not completely lit 
because there are places that 
are not being used during the 
evening hours. He thought it 
would look better if it were 
totally lit, so he sent an email 
to President Cohon making 
that suggestion, said Gloriana St. Clair, the dean of University Libraries.
After receiving the email, 
Cohon enlisted the help of 
Cindy Limauro, a professor of lighting in the schools 
of Architecture and Drama. 
Limauros previous work is 
featured in a number of Pittsburghs historical sites, from 
St. Bedes Church and the 
miniature railroad exhibit at 
the Carnegie Science Center 
to Carnegie Mellons Pausch 
Memorial Bridge.
President Cohon requested that Cindy do an 
assessment and help decide 
whether the bene?t of having 
it look nice would outweigh 
the costs of having it lit all 
the time. Cindy was teaching a lighting class at that 
time and had those students 
do an assessment of the idea 
as well. These students came 
up with the idea of, rather 
than keeping the pre-existing 
lights inside the library on at 
all times, they would rather 
like to light the building on 
the outside in the same way 
that the Pausch Bridge is lit, 
St. Clair said.
The light will be jazzy 
and fun, like the lighting on 
the current bridge, added  
St. Clair. Were all excited.
Students also seem to be 
excited about the lighting. It 
is a great idea, said sophomore electrical and computer 
engineering major Jecolia 
Longtchi. We all spend so 
much time in the library, it 
might as well be pretty.
The new lighting will be 
unveiled during a formal 
event thanking the Hunt 
Foundation for its gift. This 
formal lighting will be the 
?nal celebration of three currently planned to take place 
in the upcoming month. 
Were having a party for 
students, a party for the staff 
who currently work in the 
library, and then the third 
formal event with the Hunt 
family, the president, and the 
trustees, St. Clair said.
The ?rst event called 
Happy 50th, Hunt Library! 
is aimed at including 
students in the celebration. 
This upcoming party was 
organized largely by the 
University Libraries Student 
Advisory Committee. 
Committee member Aaron 
Gross highly encouraged 
students to attend the 
birthday celebration, as 
the birthday party is an 
opportunity for students to 
create a small thank-you gift 
for the Hunt Foundation, and 
there will also be cupcakes  
to eat.
I think the biggest reason 
for students to be involved in 
the birthday party, as well as 
in thanking the Hunts, is the 
high use of the library. The librarys annual gate count has 
almost reached 1.5 million. 
The library is an academic 
destination, but it also serves 
as a social destination central 
to the student experience, 
Gross said.
Hunt receives new 
exterior lighting Tepper alumnus awarded Nobel Prize
OCTOBER 25, 2010
An alumnus of Carnegie 
Mellons economics department has been awarded the 
Alfred Nobel Memorial Prize 
in the Economic Sciences, 
commonly referred to as 
the Nobel Prize in Economics. Dale T. Mortensen, who 
earned his Ph.D. from the 
Graduate School of Industrial Administration (now 
the Tepper School of Business) in 1967, received the 
award with Christopher 
A. Pissarides and Peter A.  
Diamond of the London 
School of Economics and the 
Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology, respectively.
The Nobel committee 
awards the prize to economists whose work has made 
a signi?cant impact on the 
?eld across a long period of 
time. The 2010 winners were 
credited with researching 
and creating important labor 
models that took into account 
how government regulations 
and policies made an impact 
on ?elds including unemployment and the wages of  
workers.
Since 1967, Mortensen has 
served as a professor at Northwestern University in the Kellogg School of Business.
His colleague at the university, Joel Mokyr, a professor 
in the arts and sciences, said, 
[Mortensen] explains a great 
deal about why at any given 
point in time there are a lot of 
people who are not working, 
and he gives a very rich and 
extremely useful theory of unemployment thats very different from our normal ideas of 
unemployment.
The theory that won 
Mortensen the award challenges the ideas of classical 
economics regarding how 
people ?nd jobs and how 
companies ?ll vacancies. 
Classical economists believed 
that in a free market without government regulation, 
there would be an ef?cient 
outcome in the market for human labor. This means that 
people would eventually ?nd 
a way to work in parts of the 
economy that were relevant to 
their skills and that employers 
and employees would be able 
to settle on wages that fairly  
represented how much workers contributed to the success 
of the ?rm. All laborers in the 
economy would be contributing, and their skills would be 
utilized to maximize productivity.
However, Mortensen 
pointed out that this classic 
understanding of the labor 
economy does not include 
search costs. Search costs are 
the costs that people have to 
pay when attempting to ?nd 
employment. These costs can 
include the amount of money 
it takes to move to a new city 
to work, to buy a new home, to 
?y to an interview, and more.
Mortensens research 
states that these costs create 
a barrier between a person 
and employment that may be 
available. In an unregulated 
market, these barriers create 
higher unemployment and 
dont allow all workers to use 
his or her skills to achieve the 
highest level of productivity 
for the economy.
This analysis supports a 
possible outside party, such 
as the government, intervening to coordinate potential 
employers and employees to 
utilize one another.
Mortensen is now the ?fth 
degree holder from Carnegie 
Mellon to win the Nobel Prize 
in Economics. John Forbes 
Nash, who received his bachelors and masters degrees 
from Carnegie Mellon in 1948, 
won the prize in 1994 for his 
extensive work in the ?eld of 
game theory. Last year, Oliver 
E. Williamson, a University of 
California, Berkeley professor 
and a Carnegie Mellon Ph.D. 
graduate, won an award for 
his work in demonstrating 
how ?rms like companies and 
corporations have close similarities with governmental 
bodies.
Anjum Rangwala, a ?rstyear economics major, said, 
After my ?rst lecture in 
Professor [Steven] Kleppers 
class, I knew how good the 
economics program was 
here. But after hearing 
about alumni of the program 
winning awards like the Nobel 
Prize, it makes you feel really 
proud to be a part of the 
department.
With two Nobel Prizes won 
in the last two years, its easy 
to wonder who at Carnegie 
Mellon will be  awarded next.
CMU students video creeps into Rolling Stone coverage
FEBRUARY 21, 2011
Rarely do college students 
take center stage in national 
debates about artistic plagiarism, but thats exactly what 
happened to Carnegie Mellon 
?rst-years Joe Reilly, a CFA 
student, and Sean Hoffman, 
an H&SS student. Their video 
What is The Creep made 
national headlines after Saturday Night Live (SNL) released 
a digital short, The Creep, 
that eerily echoed some of the 
elements of the Carnegie Mellon students video.
For most of the semester, 
it was just an inside joke for 
fun, Reilly said. And then 
we were like, Yeah, we could 
make a video, but everyone 
had work. And near the end 
of the semester, we were like, 
We really should make a video, and we got a lot more time 
near ?nals week, so we started 
shooting then. The two then 
posted the video on YouTube 
in mid-January. The video, 
titled What is the Creep?, 
features Hoffman and Reilly 
dancing the Creep at various locations around campus, 
creeping on unsuspecting students, and occasionally wearing a velociraptor mask, all 
to Justices song Waters of 
Nazareth.
Approximately a week after Hoffman and Reilly posted 
the video on YouTube, SNL 
released a digital short called 
The Creep on its show. Although SNLs video was of a 
higher production quality and 
contained an original song featuring Nicki Minaj, there are 
still some uncanny similarities 
between the two videos. In it, 
the Lonely Island trio sings 
about creeping while walking about with bended knees, 
clawed hands, and creepy 
smiles, similar to the dance in 
Hoffman and Reillys video. A 
Tyrannosaurus rex mask also 
makes an appearance near the 
end of the video.
Our ?rst thoughts were, 
This is eerily similar,  Hoffman said after seeing SNLs 
The Creep. We can see the 
claw thing going on, the bending of the knees ... and then, 
near the end of the video, 
we saw the T-rex head, and 
thats when we were like, Oh 
my God, theres no way that 
this is just a coincidence. So, 
from there, we all got on our 
YouTube accounts and started 
looking up wherever the video 
had appeared, and started 
saying, Hey, this is a rip-off 
of our video. But then the 
next morning we woke up and 
were like, Well, we kind of 
overreacted a little bit, and we  
started removing our comments, but by that time other 
fans had seen it and started 
doing the same thing that we 
did, and our views started to 
go up.
The duos fans were not 
the only ones who noticed 
the similarities between the 
videos: The magazine Rolling Stone took notice as well. 
Reillys mother had been high 
school friends with the artistic director at Rolling Stone, so 
when his mother posted the 
students video on Facebook, 
claiming that SNL had copied 
her son, the artistic director 
took notice. Sean and I were 
in biology [class], and I get a 
text from my mom that says, 
Hey, call me soon, Rolling 
Stone is going to call you for an 
interview and I want to talk to 
you about it ?rst,  Reilly recalled. We were both just like, 
What are you talking about? 
That was the longest last 20 
minutes of that class ever.
We were shocked that 
it had grown from this 
small incident  this mini  
controversy, as they called 
it in Rolling Stones article, 
Hoffman said. 
When asked whether he 
had expected any major media to notice the similarities 
between the two videos, Reilly 
said, We kind of hoped in 
the back of our minds.... That 
night [when SNL released 
its video] we sent out some 
things, we posted a couple of 
things on the internet.... It was 
just kind of hopeful, like maybe somebody will notice. 
Soon enough, SNL took 
notice of the mini controversy 
as well, releasing a statement 
to Rolling Stone saying, We 
wrote and recorded the song 
over the summer, and [Nicki] 
Minaj recorded her part in November 2010, well before that 
video was made.... Thats crazy that they have a T-rex head 
as well! I guess great minds 
really do think alike. And by 
great minds we mean ours and 
theirs. We enjoyed their dancing and hope they continue 
their creeping ways.
I was surprised with some 
of the stuff they said, like 
Great minds think alike, and 
by minds, talking about ours 
and theirs, Hoffman said. I 
was shocked that they had 
even taken the time out of 
their day to even watch both 
of our videos, so it was pretty 
cool.
When asked whether or not 
he believed SNLs claim that it 
was all a coincidence, Hoffman said, At ?rst, after the 
article, we had thought, Yeah, 
it was just a coincidence, but 
then other people in our dorm 
would come up to us and ask 
us, Well, why didnt you ask 
when the actual video was 
?lmed?... If they ?lmed the 
video in January after ours 
was released, you know, they 
could have rerecorded some 
of the audio or whatever [to 
incorporate the dance]. The 
song isnt what we were debating over, it was the actual 
dance.... That was one of the 
questions we wanted to ask 
them but didnt think of until 
later.
Whether or not SNL 
gleaned inspiration from the 
students video, the students 
have bene?ted from the controversy: As of Sunday, their 
video had gained over 24,000 
views on YouTube, and their 
follow-up video, How to 
Creep, had over 11,000 
views. Were shocked that it 
even got that many views, 
Hoffman admitted. We were 
surprised [at the beginning], 
like, Dude, we got 500 views! 
Thats so awesome! And then 
now, its like, Hey, 20,000 
views... We never knew it was 
going to be that big.
Students assemble for fence restoration
MARCH 28, 2011
A group of ?rst-year art 
students used a hacksaw on 
the Fence Monday afternoon 
to carve away some of its layers of paint. In response, Tim 
Hieter, a masters candidate 
in materials science and engineering, created a Facebook 
event  Operation Heal the 
Fence  that attracted hundreds of students to the Cut 
that night to reclaim and repaint the Fence.
Hieter, after hearing about 
what happened to the Fence, 
discussed his reaction with 
friends. We see it as the one 
real, easily identi?able symbol of Carnegie Mellon, and 
everyone loves it, he said.
The Facebook group began as a way to organize his 
friends, but after only two 
hours, nearly 300 people had 
committed to attending. By 
the end of the night, this number had climbed to almost 
1,000.
Those who arrived at midnight took turns painting 
the Fence black, adding the 
message Dont mess with 
our Fence on the side facing 
Forbes Avenue, and writing 
personal messages of support 
on the opposite side. Nicholas Petrillo, a senior in mechanical engineering, painted 
the ?rst stroke, explaining 
through a megaphone while 
standing on the nearby picnic 
table that the Fence would be 
captured by the traditional 
rules and that no one was to 
begin painting until midnight. 
As Carnegie Mellons website 
and the Student Handbook 
outline, groups must capture 
and paint the Fence between 
midnight and daybreak.
Will Weiner, a sophomore 
economics and social and decision sciences double major, 
and Jay Rockwell, a junior 
biomedical and chemical engineering major, were some 
of the ?rst to notice when 
students began cutting into 
the Fence. Weiner, Rockwell, 
and others confronted the 
students, who were then escorted away by university 
personnel. Weiner described 
the Fence as the de?nition of 
school spirit and noted that 
everybody felt hurt by the 
destructive actions.
The light will 
be jazzy and 
fun, like the 
lighting on 
the current 
bridge.
Gloriana St. Clair
Dean of University 
Libraries
File Photo 
Sean Hoffman and Joe Reilly perform their signature dance the creep.
File Photo
A collage of photos of the Fence when it was damaged and during its restoration.

---------------------------------------------------

B8  thetartan.org/special The Tartan  April 16, 2012
Alumni Calendar
1
2
5
6
4
7
9
8
11
10
1219
18
15
17
16
2122
20
23
1314
3
Alumni House   14
Baker Hall   12
College of Fine Arts   18
Cyert Hall   9
Doherty Hall   11
Gates Hillman Complex   10
Gesling Stadium    20
Greek Quadrangle   13
Hamburg Hall   1
Hamerschlag House   23
Hunt Library   19
Margaret Morrison Carnegie Hall   16
Morewood Gardens   7
Midway   8
Mudge House   6
Posner Hall  Tepper   17
Porter Hall   5
Resnik Hall   22
Roberts Hall    3
Scaife Hall    4
University Center    15
Wean Hall   2
West Wing   21
Carnival Weekend 2012 Event Locations
The following list includes events that are exclusively available to alumni or that encourage 
alumni attendance. A schedule of general Carnival events can be seen in the Pillbox Carnival calendar on page C15.
AB
AB Tech Alumni Reception. Danforth Lounge, 
University Center. Friday, 35 p.m.
Alpha Chi Omega
Mock Wine & Cheese Reception. Chapter 
House, Greek Quad, 1069 Morewood Ave. 
Thursday, 79 p.m.
Alumni BBQ. Greek Quad, Chapter House, 
1069 Morewood Ave. Saturday, 14 p.m.
Alpha Epsilon Pi
Open House & Brunch. Chapter House, Greek 
Quad, 1091 Morewood Ave.  
Saturday, 10:30 a.m.1 p.m.
AEPi Alpha Kappa Chapter 25th Anniversary 
Gala. Rodef Shalom, 4905 Fifth Ave.  
Saturday, 811:30 p.m.
Alpha Phi Omega 
Alumni Concession Shifts. Midway Concession 
Stand. Saturday, noon2 p.m.
Carnival Meeting and Mixer. Danforth Lounge, 
University Center. Saturday, 25 p.m.
Alumni Association
All-Campus BBQ. Merson Courtyard, University Center. Rain Location: Wiegand Gym, 
University Center. Friday, 11:30 a.m.2 p.m.
Buggy Alumni Association
Reception. Coffee Lounge, Baker Hall.  
Friday, 12:30 p.m.
Morning-After Breakfast. Smallman Street 
Deli, 1912 Murray Ave. Sunday, 10 a.m.
Carnegie Mellon Black Alumni Association
Lunch & Meeting. Gregg Hall, Porter Hall, 
Room 100. Saturday, 11:30 a.m.2 p.m.
Carnegie Institute of Technology (CIT)
Buggy Breakfast. Singleton Room, Roberts 
Engineering Hall. Friday, 911 a.m.
Tour of the new labs in Doherty Hall Chemical Engineering Department. Doherty Hall, 
Room 1107. Friday, 35 p.m.
Third Annual Materials Science & Engineering Alumni Carnival Deck Party. Wean Hall, 
3300 Corridor. Friday, 46 p.m.
Civil & Environmental Engineering Alumni 
Reception. Porter Hall, Room 107E.  
Friday, 4:306:30 p.m.
Civil & Environmental Engineering Classes of 
the 1940s & 1950s Dinner. Pittsburgh Athletic Club, 4215 Fifth Ave. Friday, 6:30 p.m.
MechE Picnic & BBQ. Courtyard & Lobby, 
Scaife Hall. Saturday, 11:30 a.m.1 p.m.
SCS/ECE Alumni Reception. Gates Center, 
Room 6115. Saturday, 13 p.m.
Biomedical Engineering Alumni Reception. 
Doherty Hall, Room 2100.  
Saturday, 23 p.m.
Delta Delta Delta
Tri Delta Pansy Brunch. Chapter House, Greek 
Quad, 1017 Morewood Ave.  
Saturday, 13 p.m.
Delta Tau Delta
Alumni Golf Outing. Bob OConnor Golf 
Course, Schenley Park. Saturday, noon. 
Alumni Pig Roast. Chapter House, 105 Margaret Morrison St. Saturday, 4 p.m.
Delta Upsilon
Alumni Dinner. Primanti Brothers, 3803 
Forbes Ave. Friday, 7 p.m.
Lunch. Schatz Dining Room, University Center. 
Saturday, 11:30 a.m.1:30 p.m.
Meeting. Hamburg Hall, Room 1502.  
Saturday, 24 p.m. 
Dietrich College of Humanities & Social Sciences (H&SS)
Reunion. Terrace Tent, Baker Hall. Saturday, 
11 a.m.1:30 p.m.
Hamerschlag House
Reunion. Hamerschlag Lobby. Friday, 35 p.m.
Heinz College
Alumni Reception with Faculty & Students. 
Foyer, Hamburg Hall. Friday, 35 p.m.
Hispanic & Latino Alumni Association
Meeting. Connan Room, University Center. 
Saturday, 13 p.m.
Reunion Reception. General Motors Dining 
Room, University Center. Sunday, 710 p.m.
Information Systems
Program Block Party. Porter Hall, Room 222. 
Friday, 46 p.m.
Kappa Alpha Theta
Alumnae Brunch. Chapter House, Greek Quad, 
1077 Morewood Ave. Saturday, 10 a.m.
Kappa Delta Rho
Alumni Reception. Alumni House.  
Sunday, 46 p.m. 
Kappa Kappa Gamma
Alumnae BBQ. Chapter House, Greek Quad, 
1065 Morewood Ave. Saturday, 2 p.m.
Kiltie Band
Alumni & Student Reception. Alumni House. 
Thursday, 4:30 p.m.
Law Alumni Network
Law Alumni Network & Pre-Law Program Reception. Coffee Lounge, Baker Hall.  
Friday, 46 p.m.
Margaret Morrison College
Alumnae Tea. Maggie Murph Caf, Hunt 
Library. Friday, 35 p.m.
Mellon College of Science
Ice Cream Social. Terrace Tent, Baker Hall. 
Friday, 23:30 p.m.
Pi Kappa Alpha
Reception. Alumni Lounge, University Center. 
Friday, noon4 p.m.
Meeting. Hamburg Hall, Room 1000.  
Saturday, 13 p.m. 
ROTC & Military
Alumni Welcome Breakfast. Danforth Lounge, 
University Center. Saturday, 10 a.m.noon.
School of Architecture
SoArch Alumni Reception. DFab Lab, Margaret 
Morrison, Room C7. Friday, 5:30 p.m.
SoArch Alumni Brunch. College of Fine Arts, 
Room 201. Saturday, 11:30 a.m.
SoArch Exhibit Open Houses & Design Awards. 
Exhibit: Margaret Morrison, Room 303.  
Fourth-Year Design Awards: Margaret  
Morrison, Room 403. Saturday, 13 p.m.
School of Design
Alumni Reunion. Margaret  
Morrison, Room 111. Saturday, 13 p.m.
ScotchnSoda
Sixth Annual Reception. Rangos 3, University 
Center. Sunday, 10:30 p.m.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Thirty-seventh Annual Night at Luna. Luna Bar 
& Grill, 304 N. Craig St. Thursday, 9 p.m.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon Buffet Dinner. Chapter 
House, Greek Quad, 1085 Morewood Ave.  
Friday, 610 p.m.
BBQ & BMT Scholarship Sauerkraut Eating 
Finals. Chapter House, Greek Quad, 1085 
Morewood Ave. Saturday, noon3 p.m. 
Sigma Alpha Iota
Alumnae Reception. Porter Hall, Room 125C.  
Saturday, 13 p.m.
Sigma Phi Epsilon
Alumni BBQ. Chapter House, Greek Quad, 
1057 Morewood Ave. Friday, 1:304:30 p.m.
Soccer
Alumni Brunch. TV Lounge, West Wing.  
Saturday, 10:3011:30 a.m.
Alumni Soccer Game. Soccer Field, adjacent to 
Gesling Stadium.  
Saturday, 11:30 a.m.1 p.m.
Soccer Alumni Reception. Piano Room, Mudge 
House. Saturday, 56:30 p.m. 
Tepper School of Business
Work the Network: An Introduction to the 
Tepper Schools Regional Alumni Chapters. 
Posner Center. Friday, 2:305 p.m.
Alumni B**rs. Main Lobby & Courtyard, Tepper School of Business. Friday, 57 p.m.
Tepper School Tour. Rachel Mellon Walton 
Room, Tepper School of Business.  
Saturday, 9:15 a.m.
State of the Tepper School of Business. Posner 
Center. Saturday, 11:30 a.m.
Tepper School New Curriculum & the Student 
Experience. Posner Center.  
Saturday, 33:45 p.m. 
Afternoon Tepper Tea: Faculty Meet & Greet. 
Posner Center. Saturday, 3:305 p.m.
Tepper All-Class Reunion Celebration. The 
Andy Warhol Museum, 117 Sandusky St. 
Saturday, 6:3010 p.m.
Other Alumni Reunions
Class of 1962 Medallion Ceremony & 50th Reunion Lunch. Alumni Concert Hall, College 
of Fine Arts. Saturday, 11:30 a.m.3 p.m.
Platinum Reception. Alumni Lounge, University Center. Sunday, 45 p.m.
Baby Boomer Celebration. Schatz Dining 
Room, University Center. Sunday, 57 p.m. 
Classes of the 1980s & 1990s Celebration. 
Alumni Lounge, University Center.  
Sunday, 57 p.m. 
Platinum Reunion Dinner. Connan Room, 
University Center. Sunday, 57 p.m.
Young Alumni Happy Hour. Tartans Pavilion, 
Resnik House. Sunday, 57 p.m.
Miscellaneous
Tartan Football 500th Win Celebration. Tartans Pavilion, Resnik House.  
Friday, 58 p.m.
Cyert Center 40th Anniversary Open House. 
Cyert Center, Morewood Gardens.  
Saturday, noon3 p.m.
Fraternity & Sorority Reception. Alumni 
House. Sunday, 23 p.m.
Student Life Reception. Mudge House.  
Sunday, 34 p.m. 
Tartan Confessions  Exclusively for Alumni 
From 1970s Through Platinums! General 
Motors Dining Room, University Center. 
Sunday, 34 p.m.
Student & Alumni Hockey Game. Ice Castle, 
Castle Shannon. Sunday, 34 p.m.
CMARC Reception. Atrium, Cyert Hall.  
Sunday, 57 p.m.
Tumbler Giveaway. Merson Courtyard, University Center. Friday, 11:30 a.m.2 p.m.

---------------------------------------------------

04.16.12 Volume 106, Issue 25
Carnival Calendar
Details of Spring Carnival events  C15
Midway Map
A guide to this years booth themes 
and locations  C8

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
Need help with your life plans? Check out this 
weeks comics for some hilarious options. 
11
Paperhouse
Paperhouse talks about dub, the reggaeinspired predecessor of hip hop and dubstep.
5
The Tartan . Box 119 . UC Suite 103 . Carnegie Mellon University . 5000 Forbes Ave . Pittsburgh, PA 15213 . www.thetartan.org .  2012 The Tartan
PUBLISHER Christa Hester EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Emily Dobler
PILLBOX EDITOR Allison Cosby ASSISTANT PILLBOX EDITOR Rachel Cohen COMICS EDITOR Nicole Hamilton 
ART EDITOR Adelaide Cole PHOTO EDITOR Jonathan Carreon 
COPY MANAGER Evan Kahn COVER Juan Fernandez
4
56810
regulars...
Advice
Everything you need to know about booth sex 
and staying drunk.
3
...diversions
...this week only
In(Klein)
Winners of the Frame Gallery Grant present 
their unconventional project.
3
wats:ON?
The School of Architecture hosts its annual 
festival emphasizing interdisciplinary work.
4
PSO
The Carnegie Mellon Concert Choir performs 
Broadway classics with the PSO.
5
Passion Pit
The indie pop band is scheduled to perform on 
campus during Carnival weekend.
6
The Loop
The film festival will showcase student work 
and expose viewers to the art of filmmaking.
7
Midway Map
Consult this map to navigate the many booths 
on Midway.
8
ToonSeum
This #*?! Isnt Very Funny features the work of 
Pittsburgh comics powerhouse Jim Rugg.
10
Did You Know?
Did you know that Carnegie Mellons linguistics 
major is only five years old?
10
Puzzles
Are you smarter than a hexadecimal sudoku 
puzzle? Give it a go with this edition.
13
Horoscopes
This weeks horoscopes are so Spring Carnival, 
they cause joy and uncontrollable fear of finals.
14
Calendar
This weeks calendar is your guide to the many 
campus events happening during Carnival.
15

---------------------------------------------------

art
pillbox 04.16.123
Frame features serpentine project
In(Klein) showcases Frame Gallery Grant winners work
A room-sized, serpentine plastic structure is not 
what many visitors expect to find at a gallery 
exhibition, but viewers warmly greeted this artistic 
curiosity at the opening reception for the In(Klein) 
exhibition at the Frame Gallery last Friday. Created 
by fourth-year architecture majors Michael Jeffers, 
Anna Rosenblum, Liam Lowe, and Joe Colarusso, 
In(Klein) presents a perplexing and captivating 
challenge to viewers perceptions of the space 
around them.
The exhibition consists of a single piece that spans 
the entire room, made from dozens of triangular 
plastic cutouts, each about the length of a persons 
forearm. Together, the plastic cutouts resemble 
large, transparent scales. The effect is, indeed, a bit 
serpentine; the structure undulates and twists upon 
itself as it stretches across the room in the shape of 
an elaborate, three-dimensional figure eight.
Rosenblum explained that the inspiration for the 
structures intriguing shape originally came to the 
artists when designing an elementary school with a 
winding structure wrapped around the building. The 
artists submitted their proposal and ultimately won 
the Frame Gallery Grant, which offers $300 to an 
individual or group of students that can create a sitespecific work that alters perceptions of space.
The scale is perhaps the most impressive aspect of 
the piece. Although the gallery itself is no bigger 
than about twice the size of an average dorm room, 
the structure takes up the entire space, suspended 
from the ceiling by no more than a few strings at 
various junctures. Assembling the structure was no 
easy task, according to Colarusso. He and his three 
colleagues built most of the piece on site over the 
course of one night.
Despite the scale of the piece, however, the paradox 
is that the structure does not take up much space at 
all. Visitors to the gallery ducked under the winding 
plastic and stood inside it, admiring the piece from 
various angles or casually socializing. According 
to Jeffers, this paradox is one of the driving ideas 
behind the project. We knew we wanted something 
that was ambiguous, he said, something that had 
logic to it but seemed irrational.
If ambiguity was the artists goal, then they certainly 
achieved it. The shape of the piece, paired with the 
grandness of its scale, made for an unconventional 
object that was open to interpretation. Third-year 
architecture major Claire He described the structure 
as futuristic and, despite its already impressive 
size, saw even greater potential for the piece. It 
feels like a prototype for something bigger, she said.
Though an unexpected use of the gallery space, 
In(Klein) does not fail to impress. Not only is 
it aesthetically captivating, but it also poses a 
challenge to the ways in which people experience 
their physical environment. In(Klein) is a compelling 
and refreshing departure from the traditional art 
exhibit and conventional perceptions of space.
Rachel Cohen | Assistant Pillbox Editor
In(Klein) will be open at The Frame through April 21.
Advice for awkward people
Dear Patrick,
Whats the most costeffective way to stay 
drunk for all of Spring 
Carnival? I have no work, 
no class, no money, and 
no friends. Help me get 
drunk as cheaply as 
possible.
Sincerely,
Consuming Highly 
Economical Alcohols 
Potentially, Otherwise Will 
Imbibe Natty Only
Dear CHEAP-O WINO,
There are a few general rules 
of thumb when it comes 
to drinking cheaply. First, 
avoid beer. It will fill you up 
quickly and wont get you 
that drunk. Second, stay out 
of bars. They have a huge 
markup. If you want to go, 
pre-game. Third, if you go to 
a party, avoid jungle juice.
So, after careful analysis, 
the most cost effective way 
to get drunk is... Franzia. 
Specifically, a box of Franzia 
red wine. At 13.6 percent 
alcohol by volume and 
coming in a five-liter box for 
less than $10, its the best 
deal there is. It also comes 
with several drinking games 
ready to go: Tour de Franzia, 
in which you wear a bike 
helmet and drink Franzia, 
and Slap the Bag, in which 
you take the bag of wine 
out of the box, slap it, drink 
it, and then pass it around 
(these are both more fun 
when youre drunk). Follow 
these tips and youll have a 
cheap, drunk time.
Plus getting drunk on 
wine is pretty classy,
Patrick Hoskins
Dear Patrick,
Its Spring Carnival again, 
and that means one thing: 
booth sex. Do you have 
any tips for doing the 
deed in a shoddy wooden 
shack?
Thanks,
Busily Organizing 
Orgasmic Times, Hidden 
Booth Activities Needed, 
Guidance Eagerly 
Requested
Dear BOOTH BANGER,
Booth sex is one of the 
oldest Spring Carnival 
traditions. However, it comes 
with its own dangers: public 
indecency arrests, collapsing 
booths, general em-bareass-ment, and splinters. The 
key is to get in, do the deed 
quickly, and get out. Luckily, 
one of those shouldnt be 
a problem. First, you need 
to scope out a good booth. 
Take the first day of Carnival 
to find a good one. It needs 
to be sturdy and have a few 
good hiding spots. Stay 
away from Kappa Alpha 
Thetas booth  its always 
on the verge of collapse.
Once youve found a good 
booth, you need to sneak in 
at night. You may think that 
security will be a problem, 
but most of Carnival security 
is students, and students 
are easily bribed. Make sure 
there are no cops around 
and do it.
Not too hard or the whole 
booth will come down,
Patrick Hoskins
Need advice? Send queries 
to advice@thetartan.org.
About staying drunk and booth sex
Write for Pillbox.
pillbox@thetartan.org

---------------------------------------------------

4community
pillbox 04.16.12
Students wandering into the College of Fine Arts (CFA)
building last week may have noticed a lot of paper rope 
hanging across the Great Hall. The installation, by artists 
Wade Kavanaugh and Stephen Nguyen, was a major 
feature of this years Jill Watson Festival Across the Arts.
The School of Architecture hosted the annual festival 
this past weekend. The festival, more commonly known 
as wats:ON?, featured guest speakers, demonstrations, 
workshops, and installations centered around the theme 
of transformer.
The festival is an annual tribute to Jill Watson  a 
Carnegie Mellon alumna, adjunct faculty member, 
and local architect  who died in a plane crash in 
1996. This marked the 15th year of the festival, which 
celebrates Watsons commitment to an interdisciplinary 
philosophy, according to the festivals website.
The wats:ON? theme this year was meant to build off 
this interdisciplinary idea and inspire questions about 
the transformation of architecture, art, and technology 
from materials to ?nished projects. All of the presenters 
demonstrated a transformative feature, whether it was 
transforming their bodies into instruments, rolled-up 
paper into sculpture, or an Arduino  an open-source 
single-board microcontroller  into a sewable patch.
The magic of moving from pieces of material to 
something remarkable, that transition is really amazing, 
said Pablo Garcia, assistant professor in the School of 
Architecture and co-curator of the festival with adjunct 
assistant professor Spike Wolff. The transformation is 
really the part that were interested in. These people 
make the transformation visible.
According to Garcia, the co-curators asked themselves, 
Who can we bring in who will amaze people and 
surprise them? while planning the festival. The result 
led them to the theme of transformer. The transformer 
theme has a lot to do with exactly that, but people who 
do it with almost the minimum amount, Garcia said. 
These arent people who are making complex things 
out of complex things with stuff thats over peoples 
head.
The festival opened on Thursday with a presentation 
by Leah Buechley, an associate professor at the 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) Media 
Lab and director of the High-Low Tech research 
group. Buechleys talk, titled Expressive Electronics: 
Sketching, Sewing, and Sharing, was cosponsored 
by the Human-Computer Interaction Institutes Z-Axis 
seminar series and focused on the diversi?cation of 
electronics, in Buechleys own words.
Buechley and her team of graduate students at MIT 
focus on helping diverse people create diverse 
technology using diverse methods through diverse 
processes. She presented an example of their work: 
a rearranged Arduino into a sewable patch, called the 
LilyPad Arduino, which has expanded the audience for 
technology by altering traditional gender patterns in 
technology and computation.
Buechley, like the rest of the presenters and participants, 
was chosen because of her focus on the transformation 
of some aspect of her work. For Buechley it was 
technology and computation. For percussionist and 
rhythm dancer Keith Terry, it was his body.
Terry performed to a full audience in the Alumni Concert 
Hall on Friday. In a performance centered on sound and 
movement, he transformed his body into a multi-faceted 
instrument. His performance on Friday was highly 
interactive; he taught audience members the basics of 
numerous types of body music and dance, including 
hambone and kecak.
Terrys a performer who essentially has nothing  
just his body  and he can make an amazing array of 
sounds and beats and rhythms, Garcia said.
Terry closed his presentation by discussing visual 
rhythms and the rhythmic qualities of architecture. After 
assigning pitches and sounds to various aspects of the 
room  including columns, wall features, and a row of 
timpanis  he joked, We could spend the rest of the 
festival playing this room.
The architecture of the College of Fine Arts building was 
also a recurring theme in the festival. While Terry found 
music in the architecture, Kavanaugh and Nguyen faced 
limitations created by the building while they were 
planning their installation.
Kavanaugh and Nguyen gave a casual lecture on 
Saturday night as a closing to the festival, discussing 
their previous work and their most recent project, titled 
Tug O War, which they had installed in CFA over the 
previous few days.
Their installation included nearly four miles of paper 
rope and showed how creative ideas could transform 
a challenging space into something amazing using 
common materials.
Kavanaugh and Nguyen have worked together on 
numerous collaborative projects in the past, usually 
involving paper, an economical and available material. 
They focus on movement and the viewers experience 
in their work. We try to keep an element of play in 
everything we make, Kavanaugh said.
One of the goals for the wats:ON? festival is to be 
wondrous, to amaze, to inspire, Garcia said. And 
I think thats one way that you can connect the 
?ve schools in the College of Fine Arts, which the 
festival serves. Its hard to connect music to drama to 
architecture to art to design, but one of the things that 
they do is they are this creative endeavor that is usually 
amazing and really inspiring and wonderful.
Allison Cosby | Pillbox Editor
Allison Cosby | Pillbox Editor
Wade Kavanaugh and Stephen Nguyen were originally intimidated by the venue for their installation Tug O War. 
[The Great Hall] was beautiful and we didnt want to screw it up, Kavanaugh said. We were really scared by it.
wats:ON? focuses on idea of transformers
The School of Architecture hosts annual festival of interdisciplinary arts

---------------------------------------------------

music
pillbox 04.16.125
Paperhouse
On Dub
So, you like dubstep. Good for you. But have you heard of 
dub?
Before dubstep, there was a lot of good electronic music. 
In fact, there was even electronic before computers. Youre 
probably aware of reggae and Bob Marleys music. But 
if youre only aware of Bob Marleys now-iconic music, 
youre missing out on some of the most innovative 
electronic music.
Dub grew out of reggae in the late 60s and was pioneered 
by artists like King Tubby, Lee Scratch Perry, and 
Scientist. Reggae, which focuses on offbeat rhythms, 
staccato chords, and call-and-response vocals, is often 
criticized for sounding uniform in sound design; however, 
dub sought to resolve this problem. By removing vocals 
and emphasizing the drum and bass parts of the track, 
dub music focuses on the talents of producers and their 
ability to manipulate the now-archaic gear they owned. 
Before the invention and proliferation of the computer, 
electronic backbeats were incredibly dif?cult to generate, 
let alone ?ne-tune.
Through their extensive knowledge of their equipment 
(and ability to modify it), dub producers were able to add 
extensive amounts of echo, reverb, and delay. Creating 
dub versions of reggae tracks served as an opportunity 
for producers to differentiate themselves and showcase 
their labels equipment. Similar to the way The Velvet 
Underground in?uenced almost every rock band that 
followed it, these dub producers heavily in?uenced the 
originators of techno, jungle, drum and bass, house, punk, 
trip hop, ambient, hip hop, and dubstep.
To begin to appreciate and love this incredibly powerful 
type of music, I recommend getting a copy of Scientists 
Heavyweight Dub Champion, waiting for a sunny day, and 
letting the good vibes ?ow.
Alex Price | Special to The Tartan
top 10 on WRCT 88.3 FM
most played albums of the last week
Twink  Itsy Bits & Bubbles
Dr. Dog  Be the Void
Guided by Voices  Lets Go Eat the Factory
Andrew Bird  Break It Yourself
The Big Pink  Future This
Tennis  Young & Old
Various Artists  Life is Dance!
Q Morrow  All Around Dude
Mati Zundel  Amazonico Gravitante
Bonobo  Black Sands Remixed
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
Have you heard the choir sing?
Carnegie Mellon Concert Choir performs with PSO
Carnegie Mellons concert choir performed with 
the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra (PSO) at Heinz 
Hall on Friday night. The program was titled Do 
You Hear the People Sing? and featured the music 
of French composer Claude-Michel Schnberg 
and musical theater lyricist Alain Boublil, who 
collaborated to produce such musical masterpieces 
as Miss Saigon and Les Misrables. The concert 
was a musical review-style show that featured the 
concert choir and six professional soloists.
Conducted by Jack Everly, the principal pops 
conductor with the Baltimore Symphony Orchestra, 
the PSO made music at its best. Schnbergs 
melodies were played so beautifully and with such 
emotion, they warmed the hearts of audience 
members. Favorite songs such as Master of the 
House, Bring Him Home, and One Day More did 
not disappoint.
The soloist lineup for this performance was quite 
interesting and featured talented, young Broadway 
stars as well as the renowned theater veteran 
Terrence Mann. The list of performers included 
Broadway performers Eric Kunze, Jennifer Paz, 
Kathy Voytko, Marie Zamora, and Ben Crawford.
Unfortunately, Mann incurred vocal injuries after the 
?rst performance on Thursday night and was unable 
to perform all of his scheduled numbers on Friday. 
While he did visit the stage to give a charismatic 
performance of Master of the House and say a few 
words, it was disappointing that he could not sing 
the famous Les Mis ballad, Stars.
In the absence of Mann, however, Crawford did 
not disappoint. The young singer was recruited 
to ?ll in for Mann for the remainder of the shows 
run, which continued through Sunday. Crawfords 
rendition of Stars was stunning. He sang with 
grand emotion and beautiful phrasing, and his voice 
rang throughout the theater. He had a clear, strong 
baritone sound that earned him a rousing ovation 
from the packed house.
The other soloists were not very engaging. Voytko 
did give an impressive performance of the new 
song Maybe, which will be premiered in the 2013 
revival of Miss Saigon. However, Zamora and Paz 
were less impressive. They seemed to lack the vocal 
strength required to ?ll a space with the grand 
music of Schnberg and Boublil. Unfortunately, Paz 
and Voytkos joint rendition of I Dreamed a Dream 
at the end of Act 1 was disappointing. Their pop 
version was in?uenced by the television show Glee, 
which may have engaged the audience if done well, 
but the singing was imprecise.
Overall, the programs soloists were successfully 
aided by the Carnegie Mellon Concert Choir. 
Directed by Carnegie Mellons director of choral 
studies Robert Page, the choir did not disappoint: 
The musicality they presented was evident 
throughout the performance. It was obvious that 
each member was extremely dedicated to and 
engaged with the music. The shining moments for 
the choir were in the songs One Day More and Do 
You Hear the People Sing. The chorus was also very 
engaging during Master of the House.
In all, the PSOs Do You Hear the People Sing? 
was an entertaining night of music. The musicians 
played with remarkable beauty and presented this 
beloved music at its best.
Zachary Mendez | Junior Staffwriter
The Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra and 
Carnegie Mellon Concert Choir performed 
selections from popular Broadway musicals like 
Les Misrables and Miss Saigon last weekend at 
Heinz Hall.
Courtesy of Wikimedia Commons

---------------------------------------------------

6carnival
pillbox 04.16.12
For many students, the Spring Carnival concert, hosted 
by AB Concerts, is one of the most exciting parts of 
Carnival. The combination of the growing expectation 
of a large concert by a well-known band and the strong 
sense of tradition associated with Carnival results in 
an inimitable cohesion within the Carnegie Mellon 
community. This year, Passion Pit has been chosen to 
headline the concert, with local indie pop band Donora 
and WRCT DJ Gusto as opening acts.
Passion Pit began as the solo project of audio engineer, 
vocalist, and keyboardist Michael Angelakos. His 
debut EP, Chunk of Change, was originally a gift he had 
given to his girlfriend that became popular among the 
student body at Emerson College, where Angelakos 
was studying at the time. The indie community 
embraced Passion Pit: a heartwarming conception, a 
bedroom production, some catchy hooks, and a singer 
with an endearing (or distracting, depending on your 
perspective) falsetto. Chunk of Change is pretty much a 
checklist for indie hype.
What made Chunk of Change truly noteworthy was its 
sometimes embarrassingly sincere lyrics. In a culture 
that fully embraces sarcasm and irony, it is rare to ?nd 
any musician that rejects these values as thoroughly as 
Angelakos and his band. On 2008s full-length Manners, 
the now fully formed Passion Pit reigned in the emotional 
bombast of the lyrics and produced a collection of nine 
songs more dynamic than any on Chunk of Change.
It is the unabashed excitement and complete apathy 
toward trendiness that makes Manners an enjoyable 
listen even four years after its release. An even stronger 
testament to Passion Pits music is the freshness of the 
bands live performance. Since the group began touring 
in support of Manners, it has only had a catalogue of 
15 or so songs to draw upon for their shows. Yet its 
performances are not simply a musical experience: They 
are also a kinesthetic one. A Passion Pit concert requires 
constant motion. Whether its jumping, dancing, or 
moshing, Passion Pit makes its fans want to move.
Passion Pit will be releasing its yet-to-be-named second 
album later this year. If the groups concerts in the past 
months are any indication, Carnegie Mellon students 
can expect to hear members perform some new material 
during the upcoming performance.
The selection of Passion Pit for this years concert echoes 
the reality that Carnegie Mellon is not simply a center 
of innovation for computer science and technology, 
but also a hub of artistic culture. This idea that there is 
more to Carnegie Mellon than robots and bagpipes has 
been noticeable on campus this past year, especially 
when talking about the musical talents that have been 
performing on campus.
In addition to the numerous coffeehouses, musicals, 
orchestral performances, and singer-songwriter 
performances, Guster and Tokyo Police Club  both 
bands that have unique fan bases not dissimilar from the 
distinctive amalgam of Carnegie Mellons community  
gave energetic and engaging performances this past fall.
This growing artistic culture on campus is perhaps one 
of the reasons that collegemagazine.com listed Carnegie 
Mellon as the ninth most hipster campus in the United 
States last December. After years of being written off 
as a geek school, the abundance of unique culture that 
exists at Carnegie Mellon and in the Pittsburgh area is 
?nally being noticed by outsiders.
Our community is driven by passion. Similar to Passion 
Pit, Carnegie Mellon students largely ignore what is 
trendy or hip in favor of pursuing their own ideas of 
self-ful?llment and enjoyment. Saturday will mark the 
intersection of two sides of the same coin: a beloved 
indie band and a prominent technical college. And its 
sure to be a concert to remember.
Matt Mastricova | Staffwriter
Passion Pit will perform on Saturday at 8 p.m. on the Cut. 
In the case of rain, the concert will be held in Wiegand 
Gymnasium.
Passion Pit to headline Carnival concert
Indie pop band mirrors CMU student bodys passion and ambition
Courtesy of uzi978 via Flickr
Passion Pit performs in Boston in December 2010.

---------------------------------------------------

carnival
pillbox 04.16.127
Amid the jovial chaos of Spring Carnival, the Carnegie 
Mellon Filmmaking Club is offering an opportunity to 
take a three-hour breather and gain some insight into 
the world of student ?lmmaking. The Loop: Carnival Film 
Festival 2012 will take place in McConomy Auditorium 
on Friday at 2 p.m. and will feature a selection of short 
student ?lms.
The festival primarily serves to showcase and promote 
student ?lms, although its also a tribute to the art 
of ?lmmaking. The festivals title pays homage to 
the zoetrope, a device dating back to ancient China 
that creates the illusion of animation with a circular 
projection loop of moving images.
Beyond the historical context, the title also has a 
symbolic meaning: Like the rotating images of a 
zoetrope, the ?lm festival cycles through different 
periods in the history of ?lmmaking, incorporating both 
the old and new. As the title suggests, this festival will 
take a back-to-the-basics approach, showcasing silent 
?lms and other tributes to movie-making techniques.
The Filmmaking Club, a student organization on campus 
that creates and educates about student ?lms, has 
devoted many hours in preparation for organizing and 
hosting the event. Members of the club, who hail from 
a wide range of ?elds of study, learn key skills and work 
together on collaborative projects, several of which end 
up in the festival.
We all come together and use our skills to make a 
really, really cool project, said club president Benjamin 
Welmond, a senior art major with a focus in ?lm.
Besides showcasing student work, the festival also 
strives to raise awareness for a little-explored activity on 
campus. Though the Filmmaking Club plays a central 
role in the festival, organizers of the event seek to 
expand interest in ?lmmaking to all students.
It is our hope to reach out to more members of the 
CMU community, said Hannah Polack, a sophomore 
professional and creative writing double major and 
public relations manager for the festival.
By attending the festival, viewers will also gain an 
appreciation for the extent of the work that goes into 
?lmmaking. For the students who produce these ?lms, 
making movies is often harder than it seems. Theres so 
much more than just a camera and a script, Welmond 
said.
According to Welmond, the ?lmmaking process is 
tedious and dif?cult, and many students encounter 
failure before creating a successful ?lm. The results can 
be highly rewarding, however. Its hard, but eventually 
youll make it if you keep trying, he said.
The students whose work will be on display this Friday 
will surely experience this sense of grati?cation from 
seeing their ?lms on the big screen and from introducing 
other Carnegie Mellon students to the nature of their 
work in ?lmmaking.
Rachel Cohen | Assistant Pillbox Editor
The Loop features innovative ?lmmaking
Filmmaking Club hosts student ?lm festival in McConomy during Spring Carnival
When Elvis Costello wrote Little Triggers in 1978, little 
could he have known that 27 years later it would lend 
its name to the band keeping quality new-wave and 
indie rock alive in Pittsburgh. On the verge of of?cially 
releasing its second studio album and with more than 
240 shows under its belt, Triggers will be performing at 
three different locations on Carnegie Mellons campus in 
the next two weeks, including the Midway stage during 
Spring Carnival.
According to Triggers guitarist and co-lead vocalist 
Adam Rousseau, who graduated from Carnegie Mellon 
in 2003 with a degree in art, the group was founded 
in 2005 when four twenty-something musicians, all 
recently ?red from different bands, coalesced and 
formed something new, as the rejects of other groups. 
Along with drummer Rich Woody Kawood  a 2005 
Carnegie Mellon graduate  bassist Joe Kasler, and 
keyboardist/vocalist Brett Zoric, Rousseau now brings 
upbeat and refreshingly original music to stages all 
around the Northeast.
Triggers identi?es as a rock and roll group, but strives 
to transcend any one genre. Weve been compared to 
Elvis Costello or Spoon ... but we try to keep the songs as 
diverse as possible, Rousseau said. 
The majority of the songwriting is done by Zoric and 
Rousseau. Well bring in either a fully formed song or 
most of an idea, and then it sort of gets ?eshed out from 
there, Rousseau said. Everybody contributes to the 
arrangement process ... and many times something well 
come in with will end up sort of totally transformed and 
completely different by the end.
Complete with distorted guitar leads and catchy, 
de?ant vocal hooks, Triggers does not disappoint as a 
straightforward rock out?t. It does, however, offer a bit 
more ?avor than your average rock group. The group 
emulates from track to track the Clash-inspired punk 
rock of the early 90s, mid-tempo rockabilly shuf?es 
reminiscent of Johnny Cash, and driving alternative 
rock in the vein of Franz Ferdinand, all composed and 
arranged with a smart, distinct, indie pop sensibility.
Theres been some intra-band turmoil over the 
years, Rousseau said, explaining the groups internal 
dynamic. I dont think theres been a time when at least 
somebody didnt want to quit, if they didnt actually 
quit. [But] somehow weve managed to stay together 
for seven years, so there must be some kind of glue 
keeping us together. Commenting on those experiences 
deemed typical of most rock musicians, if not musicians 
in general, he added that Triggers has played some 
interesting shows ... where stuffs got broken, peoples 
teeth have gotten broken. If you play enough shows, 
some [stuffs] gonna go down.
With that said, Triggers has established itself as 
an excellent group to hear live. All four members 
sing in various capacities, and several are multiinstrumentalists, adding unique style and texture to 
each song with everything from hand-percussion to 
synthesizers. While Triggers [hopes] for a decent break 
to keep [them] going according to Kawood, at their 
most fundamental, they are a group of guys who love to 
write and perform music and, despite tribulations, love 
being in a band together.
Matt Powell-Palm | Junior Staffwriter
Triggers of?cial CD release show for its newest album, 
Forcing a Smile, will be held at 9:30 p.m. on Friday at 
brillobox. The band will be performing live on WRCT 
88.3 FMs Advanced Calculus at 7 p.m. on Monday, 
at the Midway Tent at 5 p.m. on Thursday, and at The 
Underground at 8:30 p.m. on April 26.
Local band transcends genre boundaries
Triggers discusses its history and experiences, will perform three shows at CMU

---------------------------------------------------

carnival
pillbox 04.16.1298carnival
pillbox 04.16.12
Midway Map
Patrick Gage Kelley | Senior Artist
Booth Themes:
Alpha Chi Omega Traveling Circus
Alpha Epsilon Pi Pinkie and the Brain
Alpha Kappa Psi Who Wants Be A 
Millionaire
Asian Student Association Looney 
Toons
Astronomy Club 2001: A Space 
Odyssey
Beta Theta Pi Adventure Time
BioSAC MythBusters
Delta Delta Delta The Amazing Race
Delta Gamma Shark Week
Delta Tau Delta The Lunar Landings
Delta Upsilon Blues Clues
Donner/Scobell The Price is Right
Fringe Planet Earth
Habitat for Humanity Hells Kitchen
Kappa Alpha Theta Indiana Jones
Kappa Kappa Gamma Its A Small 
World
Kappa Sigma California Gold Rush
KGB A Physical Television
Lambda Phi Epsilon The World Cup
Mayur/ISU Peanuts
Mudge Bill Nye the Science Guy
SDC Dr. Who
Sigma Alpha Epsilon Arrested 
Development
Sigma Phi Epsilon Spongebob 
Squarepants
Singapore Student Association Xbox 
360
Spirit Tom and Jerry
Stever Star Trek
Taiwanese Student Association Alice 
in Wonderland

---------------------------------------------------

10art
pillbox 04.16.12
Jim Rugg is a Pittsburgh comics powerhouse. His 
contributions to the vitality of the comic scene have 
included mini-comics, self-publishing, and creatorowned work with independent publishers. Its no 
wonder the ToonSeum is honoring the contemporary 
cartoonist and working artist through the month of 
May with its exhibit, This #*?! Isnt Very Funny.
This #*?! Isnt Very Funny features Ruggs wellknown work on Street Angel and Afrodisiac as well 
as new and seldom-seen pieces. This is Ruggs ?rst 
solo exhibition and a ?rst for the ToonSeum, as the 
exhibition re?ects the more adult sensibilities of 
the comic world. Most of the pieces exhibited are 
recent, shorter pieces originally made for anthologies 
and newspapers, dating from after the completion of 
Afrodisiac. Much of the pieces are directly inspired 
by original production art of the 20th century, the 
often-discarded line art that was produced for the 
sake of reproduction.
While its safe to say that the idea of comics in ?ne 
art galleries has found its place in contemporary art 
criticism, it is still unclear how a viewer is intended 
to engage with comics in a gallery environment: 
whether one is supposed to pay respect from a 
distance or inspect the minutiae in search of the 
human touch. While both are valid approaches, 
they go against the cognitive escape afforded by 
the traditional private experience associated with 
comics.
As such, contemporary artists are asked to present 
their work either as ?ne art or as comics. It seems 
that they must determine whether the focus will 
be on the art or the narrative. When facing this 
dilemma, artists feel they must choose. In This #*?! 
Isnt Very Funny, Rugg bravely provides solutions to 
this forced dichotomy.
Rugg approaches the puzzle of exhibiting comics 
in a museum by creating art speci?cally for the 
gallery environment. By drawing single large panels, 
the comics ?t within the traditional framework of 
a painting, and by allowing his panels to feature 
characters drawn at different sizes, he can create an 
unparalleled sense of depth. As a viewer gets closer, 
smaller details make themselves apparent.
A noticeable example of this practice is Ruggs use 
of word balloons of different sizes within individual 
panels. The word bubbles varying sizes invite the 
viewers to get closer, if they want to read the text. In 
this way, Rugg consciously designs his work so the 
audience engages with it in the gallery space and 
so the work can con?dently straddle the seeming 
divide between comics and ?ne art.
Its important to note that while its safe to label 
Rugg as a pop artist, his work does not exhibit the 
intrinsic post-modern detachedness of Andy Warhol 
and Roy Lichtensteins mid-20th century work. His 
work has real heart. As he describes on his website, 
Rugg seeks to reconcile pop cultures adventurous 
promise with the realities of the world around [him] 
and he [uses] the style and visual vocabulary 
of cartoons to question and lampoon consumer 
culture.
Rather than communicating solely through abstract 
notions of color, line, and form, Rugg expresses 
his visions and communicates in the language of 
our collective, mass media-constructed childhood 
memories. That image language is his pop. Rugg 
uses comic tropes in unexpected ways: narratives 
advanced through fragments, covers for nonexistent 
stories, or sketched splash pages.
I live in a complex world of race and gender 
roles, politics and religion, suburban isolation and 
the confusion of middle age, reads Ruggs artist 
statement on his website. In my artwork, I bring 
these realities to bear on the once-safe world of 
escapist entertainment and attempt to understand 
the values of the world around me through India ink, 
steel pen nibs, sable-hair brushes, and pixels.
Juan Fernandez | Staffwriter
This #*?! Isnt Very Funny
ToonSeum showcases contemporary pop art with heart
Jim Ruggs ToonSeum exhibit combines 
traditional comic book style with irreverent 
humor.
Courtesy of Jim Rugg
Catherine Spence | Staffwriter
Did you know?
100years ago
April 11, 1912
The Tartan conducts a straw poll for 
the 1912 presidential election. There 
are 12 candidates on the ballot, 
ranging from Theodore Roosevelt with 
278 votes, to William Howard Taft with 
103 votes, to Woodrow Wilson with 86 
votes.
50years ago
April 11, 1962
For the first time at Carnegie Tech, 
there will be an admitted students 
day in April. This years new event 
has 425 affirmations to visit out of the 
1,400 accepted students. The day will 
include school tours by each college, 
interaction with deans and faculty, 
lunch, and dorm tours.
25years ago
April 14, 1987
Spring Carnival weekend leads to 
some out-of-character events on 
Carnegie Mellons campus, including 
a drunken, outraged fraternity brother 
interrupting the closing ceremonies 
and nine arrests. One fight on Midway 
included a female being attacked with 
a butcher knife.
10years ago
April 22, 2002
Alcohol reigns supreme as one the 
most talked-about features of Spring 
Carnival weekend. From one fraternity 
house claiming to have purchased 400 
cases of beer for the weekend to a 
comic that describes Spring Carnival as 
exercise for the liver, the presence of 
alcohol was palpable all weekend.
5years ago
April 16, 2007
The university will now be offering a 
major in the field of linguistics for the 
first time. The degree will be crossdepartmental, drawing on classes 
in English, modern languages, 
philosophy, and psychology. The 
degree is toted as having a lot of 
flexibility and is the result of student 
requests.
1year ago
April 11, 2011
The Beeler Street Association makes 
headlines for its work as Spring 
Carnival approaches. Tensions are 
often high between student and 
permanent residents of Beeler Street, 
but the association aims to give both 
parties a chance to communicate 
effectively.

---------------------------------------------------

comics
pillbox 04.16.1211
Apartment 4H by Joe Medwid and Dave Rhodenbaughjmedwid@andrew
Online at www.4hcomic.com 
The Evolution of Ergonomics in School Chairs by Doghouse Diaries
doghousediaries@gmail.com
Hark, a Vagrant by Kate Beaton
kathrynmoira@gmail.com

---------------------------------------------------

12comics
pillbox 04.16.12
fernandez.juan.j@gmail.com 
wolf, bean and goldfish by Juan Fernandez 
sohmer@leasticoulddo.com
Online at www.licd.com and www.lfgcomics.com
Life Plan by Reza Farazmand
poorlydrawnlines@gmail.com
Least I Could Do by Ryan Sohmer and Lar deSouza

---------------------------------------------------

puzzles
pillbox 04.16.1213
Solutions from April 09, 2012
CrosswordEasy DifficultyMedium Difficulty
Hexadecimal Sudoku Puzzle: Easy Difficulty Sudoku Puzzle: Hard Difficulty
Sudoku courtesy of www.opensky.ca/~jdhildeb/software/
sudokugen/
Hexadecimal Sudoku courtesy of
 www.krazydad.com/hexsudoku/
Using traditional Sudoku rules, fill in the 16 x 16 grid with 
16 hexadecimal digits. Each row, column, and 4 x 4 block 
contains all the digits 0 to 9 and the letters A to F.

---------------------------------------------------

14horoscopes
pillbox 04.16.12
1. Swedish auto
2. ____ breve
3. Agitate
4. Lots
5. Durable yellow fabric
6. Resembling a monster
7. Northern arm of the Black Sea
8. Frog sound
9. Bumbler
10. C or D, for example
11. Olds model
12. Heaps
13. Mends a shoe
21. Zhivagos love
22. Actress Heche
25. Discount rack abbr.
26. Final Four org.
27. Metrical foot
28. Asian sea
30. Bay window
35. Actor Morales
36. This, in Tijuana
37. Complain
39. Limitation
41. Outburst
44. Mayberry moppet
45. AOL alternative
47. ____ Rhythm
48. Marketing
53. Lieu
54. Boxing venue
55. Less common
56. Acclaim
58. Vive _____!
61. Kofi ____ Annan
62. Give that _____ cigar!
63. Lots and lots
64. Hotbed
66. Ques. response
1. Its a wrap
6. Snack in a shell
10. Drinks (as a cat)
14. HI hi
15. Poet Pound
16. A dish with many ingredients
17. Extra-terrestrial being
18. Its got you covered
19. Commendably
20. Seaport in S. Crimea
22. Be of one mind
23. Heating fuel
24. Historic county in E. Scotland
26. Actress Peeples
29. Switch ending
31. Genetic material
32. Aries or Taurus
33. Depilatory brand
34. Cash in
38. Eastern nanny
40. Become an ex-parrot?
42. Canadian gas brand
43. Flowering
46. Goddess and sister of Ares in 
Greek mythology
49. Loss leader?
50. CD forerunners
51. Sled
52. Charged particle
53. Small fish
57. Voting-pattern predictor
59. Commerce
60. Gus McRaes occupation in 
Lonesome Dove
65. Architect Saarinen
66. Prefix with meter
67. Angry
68. Again
69. Defense grp. since 1949
70. Taboos
71. Mend with rows of stitches
72. Ollies partner
73. Huge
ACROSSDOWN
Horoscopes
aries
march 21april 19
Make sure to save money to buy new clothes. Booth paint 
and sawdust may make a great impression on the people 
around campus, but youre not going to be on the cover of 
Vogue anytime soon.
taurus
april 20may 20
Inhale slowly through your nose. Exhale slowly through your 
mouth. Now slowly repeat: I will not cause bodily harm to 
my Booth Chair. I will not cause bodily harm to my Booth 
Chair. I will try really hard to not hurt that psycho.
gemini
may 21june 21
Two words: Funnel cake. Eat up, have fun, and please dont 
make yourself sick.
cancer
june 22july 22
They may just be a purple wristband and a silly hard hat, 
but treat them with some kindness and respect. Those two 
items are saving your life.
leo
july 23aug. 22 
Everyone knows that youre too cool for school traditions. 
Its hipster but also sensible of you. Just dont rain on 
everyone elses good time. Pittsburghs weather has already 
signed up for that job.
virgo
aug. 23sept. 22
Take advantage of Hunt Library, the Gates Center, and 
Wean Hall being so nice and peaceful this week. However, 
you still wont get anything done and you will probably be 
lonely while everyone else is out having fun.
libra
sept. 23oct. 22
Be proud of what you have created this week. You put your 
time and effort into something and did your best. It might 
just be building a booth or participating in Buggy, but be 
proud of yourself.
scorpio
oct. 23nov. 21
Today is Monday. Fact: Tomorrow is Tuesday, the day 
after is Wednesday. Fact: Spring Carnival comes after 
Wednesday. Super fact: Youre not getting any schoolwork 
done this week.
sagittarius
nov. 22dec. 21
Free food is everywhere this week, so make sure to plan 
accordingly. Make a map with the fastest routes to the best 
foods to maximize the food rush.
capricorn
dec. 22jan. 19
Carnival means alumni, and alumni means time to brown 
nose any person who looks like he or she has some pull in 
the corporate world. Stay alert and you just might get to eat 
real food after college.
aquarius
jan. 20feb. 18
Your buggy team will be racing. Sorry the stars dont have 
more to say about who will win. Even they know that taking 
sides can be quite dangerous.
pisces
feb. 19march 20
Be nice and laugh at the MCs jokes at the Mobots event.
Nicole Hamilton | Comics Editor
Crossword courtesy of BestCrosswords.com

---------------------------------------------------

carnival calendar
pillbox 04.16.1215
THURSDAY4.19.12
Sweepstakes Buggy Design Competition. Wiegand 
Gymnasium. 10 a.m.
Current buggy teams will be showing off and talking 
about their designs. The Buggy Alumni Association will 
also have a welcome table and a display.
Midway Opening Ceremony. Midway. 3 p.m.
Kiltie Band Concert. Midway Tent. 4 p.m.
School of Art Downhill Derby. Between Doherty Hall 
and the University Center. 4:30 p.m.
College of Fine Arts students will don extravagant 
costumes and parade down the hill between Doherty Hall 
and the University Center in a mock-Buggy style.
AB Comedy Show: Nick Offerman. Midway. 8 p.m.
Comedian and Parks & Recreation star Nick Offerman will 
perform a stand-up show in the Midway Tent. In the case 
of rain, the event will be held in Wiegand Gymnasium in 
the University Center.
FRIDAY4.20.12
eLuma Music Festival. The Cut. 11:30 a.m.
Sponsored by Students in Free Enterprise (SIFE) and 
the Independent Music Festival Committee, the eLuma 
Music Festival will feature student performers and raise 
awareness about Project Yele, a SIFE project that aims to 
bring community development to Sierra Leone.
Tumbler Giveaway. Merson Courtyard, University 
Center. 11:30 a.m.
To commemorate Bill Dietrichs historic donation to 
Carnegie Mellon, Thank You, Bill! tumblers will be 
available for free to members of the community.
Final Mobot Slalom Races. In front of Wean Hall. Noon.
Digital Fabrication Lab: Five Years of Educational 
Power Tools. Margaret Morrison C4. 1:30 p.m.
Associate Professor and dFab director Jeremy Ficca 
will describe the role of digital fabrication in educating 
students and faculty in digital design and manufacturing.
The Costumes of Downtown Abbey. Purnell Lobby. 
1:30 p.m.
This talk on costume design will give insight into the 
historical world of the PBS Masterpiece series Downtown 
Abbey and will delve into the process of costume design 
at Carnegie Mellon.
Brain Scanning in Wean Hall. SIBR Center, Wean Hall 
3604. 3 p.m.
Professor Marcel Just, director of the Scienti?c Imaging 
and Brain Research Center, will lead a discussion on new 
research on the inner workings of the brain.
Buggy and Patent Law? Really? Giant Eagle 
Auditorium. 3 p.m.
Carnegie Mellon alumnus Don Wood will relate his past 
experiences with Buggy to his current work in intellectual 
property law.
Information Systems Program Block Party. Porter 
Hall 222. 4 p.m.
Students, faculty, and alumni will have the opportunity to 
connect and network.
Tartan Football 500th-Win Celebration. Tartan 
Pavilion, Resnik House. 5 p.m.
The Athletics Department invites all Carnegie Mellon 
football alumni to celebrate 500 victories for the Tartans. 
SATURDAY4.21.12.
Exhibition Races. Schenley Park. 8 a.m.
The race course is located on Tech Street, Frew Street, 
and Schenley Avenue. The exhibition races are followed 
by the Sweepstakes ?nals at 9 a.m.
Why Capitalism? Posner Center. 10 a.m.
Professor of Political Economy Allan Meltzer will hold a 
discussion and book signing of his book Why Capitalism?
Occupy (insert city here)! Connan Room, University 
Center. 11 a.m.
Associate History Professor Nico Slate will lead an open 
discussion about the impact of the Occupy movement 
and debate its success or failure.
CMU Ice Cream Social. Kappa Alpha Theta Chapter 
House, Greek Quad. Noon.
Bikerator Demo. The Cut. 12 p.m.
This event will offer demos of the Bikerator, a 250W 
bicycle-powered generator, and the Juice Box, a solar 
energy-powered portable generator.
Holi. Flagstaff Hill. 12 p.m.
OM, the organization for Indian spirituality and culture 
on campus, will host a celebration of this Hindu holiday. 
Participants will enjoy an Indian lunch buffet and throw 
colored powder at each other as a form of celebration. 
Tickets are $5.
Academic Insights: Captivating the Marketplace  
Built to Love. Posner Center, Room 153. 1 p.m.
Associate Professor of Marketing Dr. Peter Boatwright 
will explore what it takes to engage customers in the 
marketplace.
Academic Insights: Wind and Solar Energy  Are 
They the Answer? Posner Center, Room 152. 1 p.m.
Dr. Jay Apt, professor of technology and executive 
director of the Carnegie Mellon Electricity Industry Center, 
will discuss the costs and bene?ts of implementing 
renewable sources of energy.
Academic Insights: Globalization and Business 
Culture. Posner Center, Room 152. 2 p.m.
Dr. John Hooker, the T. Jerome Holleran Professor of 
Business and Social Ethics, will speak.
Academic Insights: Staying Happy with What We 
Have. Posner Center, Room 153. 2 p.m.
Assistant Professor of Marketing Dr. Jeffrey Galak will 
discuss the psychological reasons behind chronic 
dissatisfaction and will recommend remedies.
14th Annual Hoopla Basketball Competition. Skibo 
Gymnasium. 2 p.m.
The Carnegie Mellon Advising Resource Center (CMARC) 
will sponsor this yearly athletic event.
Student and Alumni Hockey Game. Ice Castle, Castle 
Shannon. 3 p.m.
Spring Carnival and Sweepstakes Awards 
Ceremony. Midway Tent. 6 p.m.
Passion Pit Concert and Fireworks Finale. The Mall. 
7:30 p.m.
ScotchnSoda 6th Annual Alumni and Student 
Reception. Rangos 3, University Center. 10:30 p.m.
SUNDAY4.22.12.
Buggy Alumni Association Morning-After Breakfast. 
Smallman Street Deli, 1912 Murray Ave. 10 a.m.
Former Buggy participants will reconnect over breakfast.
ONGOING
2012 MFA Thesis Exhibition. Miller Gallery.
The exhibit is organized by the College of Fine Arts and is 
open Thursday through Saturday from noon until 6 p.m.
ScotchnSoda presents: The Drowsy Chaperone. 
Rangos Hall.
The show follows a die-hard musical fan who, when he 
puts on his favorite cast album, is immersed in the story 
of a celebrity brides disastrous wedding. The musical 
pays tribute to the great American musicals of the Jazz 
Age. The Drowsy Chaperone will be performed on 
Thursday at 8 p.m., Friday at 2 p.m. and 11 p.m., and 
Saturday at 2 p.m. and 7 p.m.
Compiled by Allison Cosy | Pillbox Editor
Rachel Cohen | Assistant Pillbox Editor
For a list of alumni events, see the calendar on B8.
Classifieds
RESEARCH STUDY- MRI and two 
interview sessions seeks healthy adults ages 
3560. Cannot have low blood pressure, 
hypertension, heart disease, or diabetes. $150 
compensation. Call Kim at 412-246-6200 or 
novakkj@upmc.edu.
$$ FOR YOUR STUFF. Moving, graduating? 
Consign your gently used furniture, home 
decor, bikes, a/cs, dorm fridges, etc. with 
Consign and Design Pittsburgh. We sell it 
& you get paid. Pick-up available. www.
consignanddesignpgh.com Text/call 412-513-
7862.

---------------------------------------------------

16gallery
pillbox 04.16.12
Jonathan Carreon | Photo Editor
Students participating in Booth began moving onto Midway on Friday evening, wearing hard hats for 
safety purposes. Members of Delta Gamma ?ash their sorority sign while carrying materials for their 
Shark Week-themed booth (below).
move on.
