Volume 98, Lsue 20www.thetartaft,org29 March 2004
STUDENT BODY PRESIDENTIAL DEBATE
Friday, April 2 at 5 pm in the UC Connan Room
Carnegie Mellons student 
newspaper since l$o6.THE TARTAN
by Adam Greenberg
Forum Editor
Warner Hall has been scheduled 
for asbestos abatement starting 
immediately and causing the reloca
tion of most of the buildings 150 
occupants.
A product of the era of its construc
tion, the asbestos in Warner Hall 
serves as insulation, primarily in ceil
ings. Asbestos, a fibrous flame-retardant combination of six crystals, was 
heavily used in construction from the 
post-war era until the mid-1970s, 
when concerns about asbestos being 
a carcinogen curbed its inclusion in 
buildings.
Facilities Management regularly 
tests air quality and surfaces in build
ings containing asbestos insulation. 
Warner has been tested semi-annual
ly for years.
The [air quality] tests have always 
come back clean and today still come 
back clean, said Cheryl Hays, direc
tor of the office of the President.
With the fourth and fifth floors of 
Warner set for renovation following 
University Advancements move to 
PPG Place downtown, Facilities 
Management and the office of the 
President decided that those floors 
would undergo complete asbestos 
abatement. The other floors were to 
remain open.
Further surface swipe tests 
showed minor amounts of particulate 
matter, however, and they decided to 
eliminate all remaining asbestos in 
the building, even though the air 
tests were negative. The abatement 
was scheduled to coincide with the 
already-scheduled renovations.
The basement and sixth floor, 
home to the HUB and the offices of 
the President and Provost, respective
ly, will remain open, with access 
restricted to the basement entrance 
that connects to Cyert. These floors 
had their asbestos removed during 
previous renovations. The recently 
renovated admissions offices on the 
second floor did not undergo 
asbestos abatement during their con
version.
At that point, said Hays, there 
was no evidence of a problem, com
paring it to the sixth floor which had 
water leaks through the insulated 
ceiling during its last renovation.
Tentative plans for relocating the 
buildings other tenants were formed 
at a town meeting on March 1. Once 
telecommunications are transferred 
early next week, the office of the 
Dean of Student Affairs will move to 
Bramer House, behind the Fraternity 
Quad, and the office of International 
Education will be relocated to the 
third floor of Alumni House, across
See WARNER, page A4Friday kitchen fire in 
Morewood was no drill
Asbestos abatement in Warner Hall is forcing out the majority of the buildings 
inhabitants, who will relocate to such places as Alumni House and Highlander.Asbestos removal displaces 
most Warner Hall workers
Candidates announce campaign bids
Student Body President nominees (from left to right) Jason Pock (right) with running mate Julian Chen, Kristina Wiltsee (right) with running mate Hussein A1 Baya, 
Erik Michaels-Ober with running mate Julie Beckenstein, and Tim Bowen have begun to campaign for April 6 and 7 elections.
Taskforce 
to improve 
advising
by James Tetlow
Staffwriter
Students using Online Registration 
to sign up for next years classes may 
be surprised by a message popping up 
to ask them if theyve filled out a 
short survey for academic advising. 
The online survey is one of the ideas 
being considered by a new task force 
created to assess current academic 
advising at CMU, address unmet 
needs, and propose new possibilities 
to improve undergraduate advising 
on campus.
The time is right to look at advis
ing again, said Steve Pajewski, cochairman of the task force and an 
associate director for the information 
systems program. According to 
Pajewski, the last time a task force 
was assembled to assess advising on 
campus was in 1992. Since then, 
numerous changes have altered aca
demic advising at CMU, including the 
option to register online and to enroll 
in interdisciplinary majors. These 
changes have been dealt with differ
ently by each college  for example, 
some colleges require students to 
meet with their advisor before choos
ing classes, while others do not.
Last fall, vice provost for education 
Indira Nair decided to create a new 
task force with the goals of internal 
benchmarking to share best practices, 
addressing unmet needs, and propos
ing initiatives that will support highquality advising. The task force is 
projected to be a two-year process  
this year the task force will focus on 
gathering information from students 
and advisors, and next year the task 
force will begin suggesting changes 
and new ideas.
Our first goal is to find out what 
needs to be addressed, said James 
Roberts, a member of the task force 
and the first-year advisor for SCS. 
Year to year, class to class, issues 
change, he said. Right now we 
might not even know what the impor
tant issues are, and we have to identi
fy what students think we need to 
look at.
The task force is currently finishing 
the last of several focus groups that
See ADVISING, page A4
Bryant becomes new dean of SCS
by Adam Greenberg
Forum Editor
Randal Bryant, head of the 
Computer Science department, has 
been named dean of SCS, effective 
April 1. Bryants selection follows 
dean James Morris withdrawal to 
pursue other interests, including 
CMUs West Coast campus. Provost 
Mark Kamlet formed a search com
mittee to replace dean Morris earli
er this year and named Bryant as 
head of the committee.
I was head of the search commit
tee because I didnt want to do this, 
said Bryant. But during the semes
ter Bryant came to the realization 
that [he] wanted the job.
Bryant informed Kamlet and 
recused himself from the search 
committee. Based on his history 
with the school and record as an 
instructor and researcher, the com
mittee recommended him to Kamlet
and President Jared Cohon, who 
named him dean of SCS. Dean 
Morris had expressed his desire to 
step into a different role earlier, but 
had committed 
to staying until 
he was
replaced; since 
his successor is 
being named 
from within, 
the transition is 
taking place in 
the middle of 
the semester, 
instead of in 
August.
I think its a great choice, said 
Mark Stehlik, SCSs assistant dean 
for undergraduate education. 
[Bryant is] a great researcher, 
[and] battle-tested in administra
tion.
Bryant, a member of the comput
er science faculty since he was hired 
from CalTech in the mid-1980s, has
Randal Bryant
been nationally recognized for his 
work with logic circuit simulation 
and was appointed to the National 
Academy of Engineering last year 
for his research in that field. He also 
is a pioneer in undergraduate edu
cation, having created the course 
Introduction to Computer Systems 
(15-213) with professor David 
OHallaron. They co-authored the 
text for the course, which takes a 
hardware-level view of writing soft
ware; it is now used in over 60 com
puter science programs across the 
nation.
It was a wonderful experience 
being able to work with him on the 
course, said OHallaron on his col
laboration with Bryant for 15-213. 
He really cares about students.
Bryant believes in continuing 
SCSs history of being on the van
guard of educational development, 
including Steven Rudichs Great
See BRYANT, page A4
by Lucas Yiannatji
Personnel Manager
Last Friday evening, at 7:20 pm, a 
fire broke out on the second floor of 
Morewood Gardens B-tower. The fire 
was severe enough to warrant an 
evacuation of that wing of the resi
dence hall.
Firefighter Darvy Hicks said that 
firefighters responded to the scene 
after receiving the signal from the 
fire alarm system along with multiple 
calls from residents. Police officer Jay 
Hendershot reported that it was a 
small fire in the kitchen area of the 
second floor that was put out in 
about ten or 15 minutes.
Several residents were confused 
upon hearing the alarms go off, and 
had to be told by officers to evacuate 
their rooms. The problem stemmed 
from that morning, when alarms 
went off as part of a routine fire drill 
that had been scheduled for the day.
Residents assumed that the sirens 
were another part of the drill, and did 
not leave until police responding to 
the scene came to their rooms to 
warn them of the danger. As such, 
many students were caught off
guard. One group was in the middle 
of playing a game of DDR with their 
friend who was celebrating her birth
day. They were all forced to evacuate 
amid clouds of smoke and fumes.
The fire originated in the kitchen 
of the second floor in a plastic trash 
can. The cause is still being investi
gated. By the time police arrived, the 
trash can had melted to the floor. It 
was quickly put out with an extin
guisher by officer Jefferson of 
Campus Police; fortunately, no 
injuries occured, nor did any dam
ages other than the removal of sever
al tiles from the kitchen area.
If you have any knowledge as to 
the cause of the fire, please call fire 
investigator Ray Barringer at (412) 
937-3078.
Firefighters arrived at Morewood Gardens Friday night to extinguish a fire that had 
started in B-towers second floor kitchen area.
Rana ndlBBrytAuglsl 13isld
Pro-life protest
Dorothy Gillen protested in Squirrel Hill on Sunday in defense of her anti-abortion stance. The passenger in the car 
driving by expressed her disapproval of the protesters.
dents desire, I could be that watch
dog, and I would be very strict on 
where allocations are going. I would 
try to get money to go to organiza
tions such as Carnival committee, 
such as AB: existing organizations 
that do a lot for the student body, 
which I feel are much more deserv
ing of the money. If the executive 
branch is going to do anything, it has 
to stop these insanely wasteful 
expenditures.
The Tartan: How do you plan to 
reach out to students?
Bowen: I want to spend a lot of 
time around, on campus, just sitting 
around talking to people. The fact of 
the matter is that people are not 
going to fill out forms; people are not
See ELECTION, page A4
by Lucas Yiannatji
Personnel Manager
Last Wednesday, four candidates 
for 2004-2005 Student Body 
President had their petitions official
ly verified.
They are, in alphabetical order, 
Timothy Bowen, a sophomore 
English major; Erik Michaels-Ober, a 
junior ethics, history, and public pol
icy major, with running mate Julie 
Beckenstein, a sophomore self
defined English major, who is 
endorsed by student senate chair 
Vito Fiore; Jason Pock, a junior 
H&SS interdisciplinary major, with 
running mate Julian Chen, a junior 
in business administration; and 
Kristina Wiltsee, a junior chemistry
and history major, with running 
mate Hussein A1 Baya, a sophomore 
in business administration, whom 
current student body president Dan 
Gilman is endorsing.
These four running parties will be 
campaigning for the next two 
weeks, until April 6 and 7, when 
voting will occur online at elec
tions, andrew.cmu.edu.
This Friday, The Tartan will host a 
presidential debate in the UCs 
Connan room from 5 to 6 pm. The 
candidates will be able to engage in 
further discussion of campus issues 
and share their visions of student 
government.
The Tartan sat down this past 
week with all four candidates to dis
cuss what they consider to be the 
most pressing matters for students,
and their plans to address those 
issues.
Timothy Bowen
The Tartan: Why did you decide to 
run?
Bowen: Ive seen a lot of money 
through special allocations go to 
projects which I do not feel are wor
thy of student activities money. I saw 
$4000 go to pay for one fifth-year 
seniors project. After that was 
approved, one senator stood up and 
resigned outright. Senate is getting a 
reputation on campus as a free 
source of money. The executive 
branch is supposed to be a watchdog 
over that, but I dont feel the stu
dents have a watchdog in the execu
tive branch. I just felt that, if the stu---------------------------------------------------

A:?THE TARTAN  MARCH 29, 2004
T'* nWeather
rage %
Tjijr 'hi
Nation, World, Academia, Region
TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAYHi 51 Hi 47 Hi 56 Hi 50 Ll 42 Ll 38 Ll 44 Ll 40
i*V
SATURDAYHi 54 Ll 35
TUESD A YWNEHDWR
Angry Father, 3/20/04, 9:50 
pm  A father was visiting his 
sons fraternity house, and felt 
that music was being played too 
loudly in one of the rooms. When 
the father asked two brothers to 
turn the music down, they 
refused. The father and son con
fronted the two males in a verbal 
argument. The son stated to the 
males that if they werent at col
lege on a scholarship, they would 
be at a different school. The males 
took this as a disrespectful com
ment towards their families 
financial situation. At this point, 
one of the males left the room and 
returned with a bottle of vodka. 
He had his middle finger extend
ed and said, What are you going 
to do? Sue me you fucking Jew? 
The father phoned the Campus 
Police, and filed a complaint 
against the fraternity.
Sick in the Bathroom, 
3/21/04, 1:32 am  A Carnegie
Mellon security guard reported to 
an officer of an individual inside 
the mens room of the University 
Center basement. He had been in 
the bathroom for about 45 min
utes inside a stall. The officer 
went to check on the man, and 
asked if he wanted the services of 
CMU EMS. The man said no, and 
he had an upset stomach. The 
man was seen leaving the stall 
and heading towards the fraterni
ty quad.
Medical, 3/21/04, 1:55 am  
A resident assistant at 
Hamerschlag House phoned the 
Campus Police to report an intox
icated male. The victim was found 
sitting on the edge of his bed, who 
complained he was not feeling 
well. He refused to answer any 
questions regarding where he was 
drinking or how much alcohol he 
had consumed. The victims 
roommate told the officer that he 
was worried, since he was found 
lying in bed with his mouth hang
ing open, refusing to wake up. 
The victim was not issued a cita
tion due to amnesty.
Forced Entry at Wean Hall, 
3/21/04, 11:37 pm  An 
employee at Wean Halls 
Operations Department called
Campus Police stating that he 
could see five to six males 
attempting to gain entry into a 
secured area. The males were 
using a butterfly knife to pick a 
lock. They were described as col
lege age, of Asian, Caucasian, and 
Indian descent, and carrying 
computer equipment. Officers 
investigated the area and found 
the males matching this descrip
tion. They were asked why they 
were trying to get into the area, 
and one of the males responded, 
It just looked easy. They were 
identified as Carnegie Mellon stu
dents and charged with criminal 
mischief.
Stolen Wallet, 3/23/04, 9:12 
pm  An officer was dispatched 
to the information desk at the 
University Center for a theft 
report. A Carnegie Mellon graduate student stated that his wallet 
had been stolen. He arrived at 
Skibo Gym and placed his jacket 
on a hook near the weight room 
door. After his workout, he 
checked his jacket for his wallet, 
and discovered that it was miss
ing. The wallet contained $30, a 
Chase MasterCard, a National 
City debit card, a Carnegie Mellon 
ID card, and a Pennsylvania dri
vers license. The student was told
their IDs in a car. The officers told 
the females to retrieve their IDs, 
which later revealed that they 
were underage, and had lied to 
the officers. They were cited for 
underage consumption. Later, the 
officers were approached by a 
male who disagreed with the cita
tion of the females. He continued 
to loudly question the officers 
and smelled of a strong alcohol 
odor. After a verbal debate, the 
male was issued a citation for 
public drunkenness.
to report to the police if any unau
thorized charges appeared on his 
accounts.
Drugs, 3/26/04, 9:33 pm  A
resident assistant on the second 
floor of Resnik called Campus 
Police about an odor of marijua
na. Two officers responded and 
investigated one of the suites on 
the floor. They smelled a strong 
odor df marijuana Coming from 
one of the rooms. They knocked 
on the door and a male answered.
At this point the officers observed 
movement from the bed, beneath
the covers. They told the male to ----------------------------~------
get the person out of the bed. The incident tallies 3/20 to 3/27
person was identified by the male
as his girlfriend, and they both p M Drunkenness- 3
stepped out of the room. They PubilC Drunkenness- 3
admitted to smoking marijuana _ , , . 
and were charged for disorderly Sprained Ankles: 3
conduct.Vehicle Damages: 4
Public Drunkenness, 3/27/04,
6:01 pm  Campus Police Fire Alarms: 8
received a call for several individ
uals drinking on the porch of a Stolen Drinks: 126
fraternity house. When the offi- ............-...........................
cers arrived on scene, there were Page 2 compiled by
fo ur persons holding cups of beer. Christina Kung
A check of two males showed that
  ____________they were over 21. The other two 
females verbally told the officers 
that they were over 21, but left' '-2-1 :
IS
Nine NYU students 
sued for file-sharing
NEW YORK (U-WIRE)  Nine 
New York University computer net
work users could be facing charges 
between $750 and $150,000 per file 
for distributing copyrighted music, 
from Michael Jacksons Smooth 
Criminal to Ludacris Coming to 
America, according to court docu
ments obtained by the Washington 
Square News.
The NYU nine and 80 other college 
computer users are among the 532 
people sued last Tuesday, March 23, 
in the latest round of industry law
suits, which target colleges for the 
first time.
Each defendant is labeled as John 
Doe in the lawsuits, filed by the 
Recording Industry Association of 
America (RIAA), which represents 12 
major record companies. The users 
are identified only by their IP 
addresses, which identify computers 
through their Internet connections, 
and the songs they downloaded.
The association does not know the 
names of the users but plans to sub
poena NYU to identify them, the law
suit stated.
The record companies believe 
that the ... acts of infringement have 
been willful, intentional, and in dis
regard of and with indifference to 
the rights of [record companies], 
the lawsuit stated, adding that the 
copyright infringement has caused 
great and irreparable injury that 
cannot fully be compensated or 
measured in money.
The association says the lawsuits 
are necessary to educate file-sharers about the law, protect the rights 
of copyright owners and encourage 
music fans to turn to ... legitimate 
services, according to a RIAA state
ment.
At this point, there is little the 
sued students can do to protect 
themselves, RIAA Communications 
Director Jonathan Lamy said.
First, they should probably get a 
lawyer, Lamy said. We encourage 
everyone to reach out to us and 
make a settlement.
The association has settled 408 
similar lawsuits, he said. The aver
age settlement is $3000 and 
includes a stipulation that the 
defendant not violate copyright law 
again.
NYU users were charged with dis
tributing songs like Fake Plastic 
Trees by Radiohead (owned by 
Capitol Records), Criminal by 
Fiona Apple (owned by Sony Music 
Entertainment) and Im Every
Woman by Whitney Houston 
(owned by Arista Records America).
I dont think its fair, but I under
stand where they come from, said 
NYU sophomore Lucy Swope, who 
downloads music. As an industry, 
they need to make money.
Over the last three years, record 
stores were closing by the thou
sands [and stores near college cam
puses were especially hard-hit], 
RIAA President Cary Sherman said 
Wednesday in an online press con
ference. Thousands of label 
employees lost their jobs. Artist 
signings plummeted. And song
writer royalties were half of what 
they had been.
Defendants in the suits traded an 
average of 837 songs, he said.
Students donate 
sperm and eggs
SAN DIEGO (U-WIRE)  While 
college students are a renowned and 
seemingly inexhaustible source of 
cheap labor, many of them are now 
finding meaningful and high-paying 
work as sperm and egg donors.
Compensation for sperm dona
tion today varies, but the $60 per 
sample paid by the Fertility Center 
of California in the San Diego State 
University area is a fairly average 
estimate, though other companies, 
such as California Cryobank, offer
up to $75 per specimen and up to 
$900 a month.
The pay for egg donation is signif
icantly higher because of the more 
complex process of egg extraction. 
According to Ericka Menor, who 
runs the egg donation services at 
Building Families Through 
Surrogacy Inc., the process involves 
stimulating the ovaries with med
ication and then physically remov
ing 10-12 eggs vaginally with a nee
dle.
Menor said she has experienced 
the procedure herself, likening the 
discomfort felt afterward to tender
ness in the abdomen like when 
youve done too many crunches. 
Donors receive $4000 in compensa
tion for each procedure they under
go.
But students who donate seek out 
more than just the financial benefits 
of these programs.
Its a combination of compensa
tion, free (medical) testing, and 
understanding that theyre helping 
couples to achieve pregnancy, 
Habal Ravin, laboratory director of 
the Fertility Center of California, 
said.
Marla Eby, vice president of mar
keting and sales at California 
Cryobank, said students are also 
attracted by the flexible schedule of 
working as a donor.
The reason that its a good job for 
a student is that its not a huge time
commitment once you qualify for 
the program, Eby said. They dont 
have to make an appointment to 
visit our offices. They do need to 
visit three times a week, but we can 
schedule that around their classes, 
so its kind of a flexible job for stu
dents.
In order to capitalize on that 
inherent collegiate vigor, the 
Cryobank has deliberately opened 
laboratories near prestigious univer
sities such as UCLA, UC Berkeley, 
Stanford, Harvard and MIT. On their 
donor Web site, www.cryobankdonors.com, Cryobank urges 
donors of all ethnic and academic 
backgrounds to apply.
Everyones looking for some
thing different, Eby said. For some 
people, the academic is very impor
tant  for other people the 
extracurricular is.
While California Cryobank keeps 
its donors and recipients anony
mous, they are one of the few ser
vices that provide extra background 
for couples searching for the right 
donor. They also have an openness 
policy that requires them to main
tain information on file so it can be 
disclosed to curious future off
spring, with the fathers consent.
Were going to offer an opendonor program where, when the 
child turns 18, the donor can have 
some sort of contact with the off
spring, Eby said.
Half million protest 
Taiwanese election
TAIPEI, Taiwan (AP)  Nearly 500,000 
people, many clad in throwaway yellow 
ponchos against a cold drizzle, surrounded 
Taiwans presidential office and blocked 
major streets Saturday to protest last week
ends disputed presidential election.
President Chen Shui-bian promised again 
Saturday night to back a recount of the 
election that he narrowly won, and 
endorsed an investigation into the bizarre 
shooting that lightly wounded him shortly 
before the vote.
Many protesters said the shooting gave 
Chen an unfair, last-minute boost at the 
polls. Others believe conspiracy theories 
that the president staged the shooting.
This was a very dirty election. We want 
the truth, said protester Carla Wang, a 56- 
year-old employee at a trading company.
Waving red Taiwanese flags, the protest
ers filled up the wide boulevards in front of 
-the presidential office and spilled over into 
the side streets. Most were wearing dispos
able plastic rain ponchos to keep dry in a 
steady rain.
Some protesters brought a 15-foot-tall 
Statue of Liberty that had a tear in her eye 
and the slogan Strive for Justice written 
on her body in Chinese characters. The 
crowd totaled 470,000, according to the 
Taipei city government.
The massive rally went on despite a 
vague warning from rival Chinas saying 
that ongoing turmoil might become an 
excuse to take over the tiny island. Beijing 
has long insisted that Taiwan is a part of 
Chinese territory.
At the end of the four-hour rally, losing 
candidate Lien Chan of the Nationalist 
Party addressed the crowd and repeated his 
demands for a recount of the vote.
If someone uses nasty means to gain 
power, such power wont be effective and 
wont be respected, said Lien, a 67-yearold former political science professor and 
ex-vice president.
During a late-night news conference, 
Chen repeated his willingness to hold a 
recount, and he promised that he would 
accept the results. He challenged Lien to do 
the same.
The president said that if Lien formally 
petitioned the courts to nullify the results, 
he would endorse the move and urge judges 
not to bother holding hearings on the evi
dence so that the recount could be done 
immediately.
We havent rigged the election, so why 
should we fear a recount? Chen said.
Tyco juror delivers 
message to defense
NEW YORK (AP)  In the Middle Ages, a 
sheriff would lock deliberating jurors in a 
room without food or water until they 
reached a verdict. With no such option for 
the squabbling jurors in the trial of two Tyco 
International executives accused of looting 
the company for $600 million, the judge sent 
the jury home for the weekend to relax.
The divided panel sent the judge several 
notes over two days, reporting escalating 
tensions before declaring that its talks were 
irreparably compromised. Tensions were 
heightened by conflicting reports about 
whether a juror delivered an OK gesture to 
defense lawyers on Friday as she passed 
them on her way to the jury box. The defense 
attorneys, along with the judge, said they 
didnt see any signal.
State Supreme Court Justice Michael 
Obus, when informed of the alleged inci
dent, said he would continue telling jurors 
they should consider nothing but the evi
dence in the case.
Even before the speculation about the 
jurors hand motion, defense attorneys were 
pressing for a mistrial. Obus denied those 
requests and told the jury all he could: Try 
again.
He can encourage them to go back and do 
the best they can, said Michael Connolly, a 
Boston lawyer who specializes in business 
litigation. I would expect that on Monday, 
the judge would ask them to work another 
day.
Former Tyco chief executive L. Dennis 
Kozlowski, 57, and former chief financial 
officer Mark Swartz, 43, are accused of 
stealing $600 million from the conglomer
ate. They face up to 30 years in prison if con
victed of the 32 counts against them.
Kozlowskis $6000 shower curtain and $2 
million toga party on a Mediterranean island 
made him a symbol of end-of-the-millennium greed and excess on Wall Street.
Murray Richman, a criminal defense 
lawyer in New York City, said The judge 
could justify holding the jury a couple of 
weeks, because of the trials duration. He 
recalled cases where the jury sent out as
y
many as seven we-are-deadlocked notes.
Richman also suggested another resolu
tion: asking the jury for a partial verdict.
The jurors specified in a note that they 
were not a hung jury. But, they said, We 
firmly believe that this jurys ability to com
municate and deliberate with an open mind 
is irreparably compromised.
Killer resurfaces in 
Kansas after 20 years
WICHITA, Kan. (AP)  More than two 
decades have passed since a serial killer ter
rorized Wichita, strangling or stabbing 
seven victims and bragging about it to the . 
media.
Police hadnt heard a peep from the killer 
in 25 years  until now.
On March 19, a letter arrived adressed to 
the local newspaper, The Wichita Eagle with 
information on an unsolved 1986 killing, a 
copy of the victims drivers license, and pho
tos of her slain body.
The letter, apparently from the killer 
known as the BTK Strangler, sparked 
increased demand around Wichita for home 
security systems.
But it also rekindled hope that modern 
forensic science can find some clue that 
finally will lead police to a killer most 
thought was dead or safely locked in prison 
for some other crime.
I dont know why he does all of this, but I 
hope this will be his fatal mistake by resur
facing this way, Dale Fox, whose daughter 
Nancy was bound and strangled in 
December 1977, told The Associated Press.
The letter sent to the Eagle was the first 
clue that the 1986 killing of Vicki Wegerle 
might have been at the hands of BTK, an 
acronym the killer used for bind, torture, 
and kill.
Six of BTKs victims were strangled; one 
was stabbed to death. Four were members of 
one family  two children and their parents. 
Letters claiming responsibility for the slay
ings were sent to The Wichita Eagle and 
KAKE-TV.
The return address on the letter said it was 
from Bill Thomas Killman  initials BTK. 
The address appeared to refer to a nowvacant building.
The letter was mailed in Wichita, 
Landwehr said Thursday, March 26. He said 
it contained no suggestion that the killer 
planned to strike again.
r -1
Nattion,aWr & Nldt,A,odn,aWr
In the article titled Experience at Sea Offers Lifelong Memories, March 22, 
2004, Lauren Ingram was misrepresented to support the production of nuclear 
weapons. Her correct opinion is that she supports the disarmament and 
diplomacy as a solution to the worlds problems. In addition, the article said that 
police officers had helped her rejoin her group when she was lost in Hong Kong. 
She wishes to clarify that she found her group on her own. The quote [I] regret 
not getting as involved in activities as I wanted should have been printed as, If I 
had to pick one more thing I could have done, it would have been to contribute to 
the publications on the ship. She also did not say, ... and even eat American 
food. Finally, Lauren is concerned on the statement that said Colin Hobday was 
unavailable for comment due to communication difficulties, since students at sea 
check their e-mail at least once a week.
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of an error, please 
contact Editor-in-Chief Alex Meseguer at x8-2111 or tartan@andrew.cmu.edu.
..........
Tourism found in 
Pittsburghs steps
PITTSBURGH (AP)  Bob Regan is 
out to save part of Pittsburghs history 
one step at a time.
Not long after moving here from 
Boston 12 years ago, Regan was smit
ten by the sight of the hundreds of 
stairways and thousands of steps link
ing one hilly street level to another.
Theyre so incredibly unique. 
Theyre historic, said Regan, a visit
ing professor at the University of 
Pittsburgh, specializing in geographic 
information systems. No other city 
has this to this extent.
More than half of these pedestrian 
thoroughfares are legal streets and 
show up on maps as sucg, confound
ing many a motorist in this jumble of 
hills, valleys and bridges that could 
have served as an inspiration for artist 
M.C. Escher.
Regan calls the steps the citys first 
mass transportation system. They 
enabled laborers to travel between 
now-defunct steel mills along the 
rivers and their homes along the steep 
hillsides, which rise as high as 370 
feet above downtown.
Regan first began paying attention 
to the steps on morning bike rides. His 
real inspiration came one day when 
he looked up and saw what looked 
like a hillside column illuminated by 
streetlights. The column was actual
ly a stairway.
So I went home and woke my wife 
and said, Im taking two or three 
months off to map the steps. And 
thats what I did, Regan said.
The Steps of Pittsburgh: Portrait of a 
City, with photographer Tim Fabian, 
was published earlier this month.
He documented 712 sets of mostly 
concrete steps containing 44,645 
treads within the citys borders. If 
stacked, they would extend 4.5 miles. 
And Regan has climbed them all. 
Municipalities sharing the citys bor
der also have steps.
My whole goal right now is to pub
licize the steps. The more publicity 
they get, the better the chances for 
their preservation, he said.
Theres a lot of maintenance not 
only in winter with snow and ice con
trol, but in the summer with weed 
control and litter, said Guy Costa, the 
Citys public works director.
; Last year, the city spent $250,000 
on maintenance and repair of the 
Steps, Costa said. This year, for the 
first time Costa is aware, the city bud
geted no money for step maintenance, 
though crews will do minor repairs.
Fabian, a Pittsburgh resident, 
admitted he never really noticed the 
steps, which are in two-thirds of the 
citys 90 neighborhoods.
Fabian specializes in panoramic 
photography in which typically the 
top and bottom of a photo appear 
cropped, giving a wide horizontal 
view. Fabian turned the camera  a 
plastic Ansco Pix Panorama pur
chased for $2 at a flea market  90 
degrees to focus on the steps vertical 
nature.
As a photographer, this is a real 
opportunity for me to photograph a 
way of life, he said.
Many steps are old  most around 
today were built between 1925 and 
1945  and are deteriorating. Still, 
Regan commends the city public 
works department for what mainte
nance has been done, even as the city 
has faced continuing budget prob
lems. Hes donated his research to the 
city.
Regan believes the steps, if market
ed by the city, could be a tourist draw. 
Some neighborhood associations have 
step walks, but the city has been, well, 
a step behind.
I think it has a lot of potential, but 
we havent done a lot with it yet, said 
Laura Ellis, a spokeswoman for the 
Greater Pittsburgh Convention & 
Visitors Bureau.
But reading Regans book, she said, 
has made her consider what can be 
done with the steps.
I think Pittsburghers take a lot of 
wonderful things for granted, such as 
its rivers, scenic views and architec
ture. You tend not to see the things 
that are right in front of you.
Ecstasy seller sen
tenced to 11 years
PITTSBURGH (AP)  A man from 
the Netherlands who federal prosecu
tors said was the manufacturer for a 
massive ecstasy ring that stretched 
across three states and grossed more 
than $1 million was sentenced to 
more than 11 years in prison.
A Pittsburgh federal judge on 
Wednesday sentenced Stefan Strieker, 
34, of Heemskerk, to 11 years, three 
months in prison for his December 
guilty plea to drug charges and money 
laundering.
With his plea, Strieker was the last 
of 40 people to plead guilty in the past 
two years as part of a federal investi
gation.
Federal prosecutors said Strieker 
hid the drug in tabletop cosmetic mir
rors and hollowed out furniture to 
smuggle it from the Netherlands into 
the United States or Canada and then 
on to Pennsylvania, Ohio, and New 
Hampshire. >
The investigation began in the fall 
of 2000 when drug dogs at the airport 
in Frankfort, Germany, sniffed out a 
shipment of 22,000 tablets of Ecstasy 
bound for Indiana, Pennsylvania.
Strieker was among six people 
arrested in May last year.

---------------------------------------------------

Congratulations Red Team!
IllJlaiiSife I If I  II^f W:. :;f *11 -ii :-v.- '; ^;V.; ^;v.:',:: ':v;^:'-;:';;-,; ':' -.'': ": '/: '''v:::;::-?v " ' 'J . .  ;
-_____________________________________________*___________________________________________________-_______:________________________a
The Carnegie Mellon Red Team set a distance 
record in the D ARPA Grand Challenge ! We 
applaud your innovation, dedication, teamwork, 
and your remarkable achievement.
mm

.
JH
The Red Team Members
Ryan Hoover 
Ann Huang
Gautam Jain
Matthew
' : !. :Vx . y ; ; ; :  i .WIYuKato
' ": . ' ..... .
Caitlin Lov<I
ill
WIm
WfflmIl
Nick Miller
|ll  | ce,m R,t,rald
Rdget ReWdtd
Et,o ReWr,Wg
R,ohdil Retphg
Zachary Omohundro
Kevin Peterson
Scott Poff
Basti Scherer 
Erik Schoenfeld 
Gaurav Shah 
JBi^on Smith
s ky
Spencer Spiker 
Martin Stolle 
Stuthers 
Vo
ick Tryzelaar
-
BiWjdm,W Tsai 
Siir\ : ' >
Chris Urmson 
Prasanna Velagapudi
William Red Whittaker, the Fredkin Research Professor of Robotics at the Robotics Institute of Carnegie Mellon
- M I
on
\V 'H 1
.4
I gf
Ili'
I \t I
r'v>r<

---------------------------------------------------

A4THE TARTAN  MARCH 29, 2004
Nominees discuss campaigns Asbestos forces out employees
 nAnA n-\ *X nnnIn^ C > ^ 1 1 r* 1 ___1 a ,1_____  iBB 1 It fitipVsQ^ K'B T fVB
ELECTION, from page A1
going to fill out surveys; they are not 
going to fill out polls. But they will 
talk to you. And I feel thats the best 
yi.iNay to achieve communication.
XZ The Tartan: What makes you qualifor this position?
 Bowen: Ive been on student gov
ernment: I know how the system 
works. Ive been on The Tartan: I 
know how to talk to people. Im in a 
,-fraternity (Sigma Nu): I know how to 
^manage people. I feel that my leader3hip skills are very strong: I feel that 
^m very easy to talk to, so I just think 
Id be a good figurehead for the stu
dents. I feel that Id be a good repre
sentative for them to the administra
tion.
The Tartan: Anything else youd 
like to say?
Bowen: Id encourage the students 
to be more interested in student gov! ernment. We, the students, are 
; entrusted to distribute almost one 
million dollars to the other students. 
I encourage every student to be 
! involved in some kind of organization 
jand get their piece of this money.
 Erik Michaels-OberWS?my
The Tartan: Why did you decide to 
'run?
Michaels-Ober: Coming into
* Carnegie Mellon, I had a lot of inter
est in student government. Ive 
always had a lot of interest in politics 
 Im an ethics, history, and public 
\ policy major. I got involved in student 
^government. I became friends with 
. Brian Namey, the former student 
jjj&ody president, and I got to see him 
Hi action. [Student Body President] is 
Sie pinnacle position of student gov
ernment, its the one where you real
ty get to implement your ideas and 
have a lot of independence.
The Tartan: What are those ideas 
for you?
Michaels-Ober: If you ask the aver
age student what they think needs to 
he improved on campus, theyre prob
ably going to say dining number one, 
housing, they want to improve securi
ty, they want better parking, more 
parking spaces on campus, and these 
^re all things outlined in my plat
form, and I have a lot of ideas for 
Shem.
m As for dining, I think we need to 
! increase the number of vendors on 
^Campus. That will spur competition 
between them and drive down the 
prices, offer more selection, and 
increase the quality of the food. Also, 
pur meal blocks are really screwed up 
the way they are now. Ive served on 
the student body dining committee 
, since its inception. One thing that 
\ really needs to be changed is the way 
[ meal blocks work. We dont encourJ age student to buy meals, we encour
age them to spend blocks. I would 
r also look to expand all-you-care-to! eat dining. I would look into keeping 
!' facilities like Schatz open every day 
I of the week.
The Tartan: What experience do 
1 you have on campus? 
i Michaels-Ober: I have a lot of expe
dience on student government deal\ ing with issues. Theres only one stu
dent senator with more experience 
than I have, and hes graduating this 
year. Ive served on the business 
affairs committee, the academic 
affairs committee, [and] the student 
body dining committee. I was on the 
UC renovation committee that reno
vated the lower lever of the UC, 
adding Andys and Scotland Yard.
I was chairman of the communica
tions committee, which gave me the 
privilege to work on the executive 
committee with current student body 
president Dan Gilman, vice president 
Gill Dussek, and the VP for Finance 
;!Paul Richelmi. Im also on the student 
advisory council, which gives me the 
opportunity to work very closely with 
one of the highest administrators 
 Bill Elliott  and I meet with him on 
i a monthly basis.
!; Also, in terms of working with 
| administrators, I met with Mark 
i Kamlet, the provost, about restrictive 
\ research. I had a meeting with him 
' that was just the two of us on a 
!> monthly basis, and dean [of student 
! affairs] Murphy, Indira Nair, the viceprovost for education, really all the 
administrators. All of these adminis
trators Ive worked with in the past. If 
I go to them with an idea theyll take 
it seriously because they know I have 
the experience, they know Ive 
worked with students in the past, and 
they know Ill follow through.
The Tartan: What do you feel 
makes you a good representative of 
the students?
Michaels-Ober: Accessibility is 
ieally a key issue. As student body 
president, Ill have office hours twenhours a week. Students can come 
'ifi and see me, and are always free to 
;^mail me, to call me really at any 
hour of the night. If students have a 
 problem, and Im student body presi1 dent, I want to hear about it, and Ill 
take care of it right away. Ive also 
made an effort to meet with different 
groups on campus.
; I have close relationships with a 
number of student organizations 
where I feel really comfortable going 
to their meetings or talking to their 
leaders. I know a lot of student lead
ers on campus from working for stu
dent government so long, so I feel 
that I have a pretty well-rounded 
view of how the students feel on
issues.
Jason Pock
The Tartan: What are your goals in 
running for student body president?
Pock: Ive come up with four things 
that I think are important to students. 
The first is health services. They take 
a really long time, and the services 
they have are pretty poor. For 
instance, a friend of mine went there, 
spent five hours there, and they sent 
her away with a Gatorade and crack
ers. Thats pretty ridiculous.
Point number two is I think we can 
address the dining deficiencies on 
campus. I think one simple way of 
expanding dining options for stu
dents on campus is to push 
CampusExpress and DineXtra a little 
bit more. In Oakland, you have Pitts 
card taken at a lot of places, but not 
so much CampusExpress. I feel that 
were on the tip of something really 
special, and I cant imagine that it 
would be too expensive, or too diffi
cult to encourage more businesses to 
start taking that. Also, we have a lot 
of variety on campus, but theyre all 
no-name restaurants. I wonder if hav
ing a vendor like Subway or Qdoba 
on campus would get better reactions 
from students.
The third point that Id like to talk 
about is increasing University recog
nition for students beyond academ
ics. We have so many elite students 
here. But we come here, and we cant 
be elite anymore. Im your typical 3.0 
student, Im not going to get on the 
deans list, Im not going to do any 
ground-breaking research, but I am 
involved in so many things, and I 
really want to make this place better. 
My running mate Julian Chen plays 
two varsity sports, my little brother in 
my fraternity has started a club, and 
hes writing a book.
There are so many students that do 
things that are exceptional, and I 
think we get too caught up in quanti
fying their grades. Leadership 
awards, community service awards, 
service to the university awards could 
do more to lift morale for students
Im your typical 
3.0 student, Im 
not going to get on 
the deans list, Im 
not going to do any 
groundbreaking 
research, but I am 
involved in so 
many things, and I 
really want to 
make this place 
better.
 Jason Pock
like that.
The last of my four issues is 
increasing the interaction of students 
in all parts of the University. And I 
think this gets down to the core issue 
of school spirit. And I think weve all 
thought, Wow, people dont go to 
football games. People dont walk 
around the University sporting their 
Carnegie Mellon gear. Why? I think 
part of it is that we spend all of our 
time with people who are like us, 
studying things like us. Maybe we can 
make some bigger efforts to get some 
meshing. For instance, an open house 
where students can share what 
theyre doing, the kind of work that 
theyre doing for their major. Im sure 
music students would love to have 
more students come to their perform
ances. Maybe if we understood what 
theyre trying to do, maybe people 
would support that. Maybe people 
would leave this University thinking 
that they got a little more than poor 
grades. I want to represent the issues 
that are important to the student 
body ... it seems that these are the 
things in the minds of the student 
body that really need to be addressed 
now.
The two things I want to do on my 
own are, first, to extend the field of 
membership of the Carnegie Mellon 
Credit Union to undergraduates. A 
credit union is a non-profit bank. We 
have one at Carnegie Mellon, but it 
only is available to faculty and staff 
and graduate students. One of the 
first things I noticed when I got here 
is that students just get killed with 
surcharges. And we have this great 
University Center that offers all these 
extra services to students and one key 
thing that Ive noticed is missing are 
these banking services. Ive done a lot 
of research on this, and Ive come up 
with a proposal for exactly how we 
can do it. Since its a non-profit bank, 
the more members make more serv
ices possible, and make the services 
they currently offer cheaper, which
benefits the faculty.
The other thing I want to push for 
is the senior gift. Two years ago, 
about 16 people contributed to the 
senior gift, out of twelve hundred and 
fifty graduating. Thats a joke. I real
ly think we can change that, and as 
student body president I think I can 
leverage that.
The Tartan: With a lack of student 
government experience, what makes 
you qualified for this role?
Pock: I am the average student. Im 
involved in a bunch of different 
things, I have no clear conflicts of 
interest; I have a deep passion for the 
University, which I think is pretty well 
emphasized by the fact that Ive been 
a tour guide, and that Im on the sen
ior gift committee, and that I work 
with first-year orientation. I just like 
to be involved. And I think Im very 
approachable.
I know so many people. I think that 
better than any other candidate, I 
represent this interest. Im the mid
dleman. And I think a fresh perspec
tive is healthy every once in a while. 
Im quite familiar with the Student 
Senate process, Im familiar with 
what they do, and I dont see it as a 
problem that Im not on Student 
Senate.
Kristina Wiltsee
The Tartan: What made you decide 
to run?
Wiltsee: I got involved in Student 
Senate the past year to have more of 
an impact on the community. Then, 
about two months ago, Dan Gilman 
approached me and asked me if I 
would consider running for student 
body president. After that, I took a 
long time to think about it, and think 
about what I could contribute to the 
campus and if I would really be the 
right person for the job. I want to be 
able to contribute as much as I can 
back to the students.
The Tartan: What do you feel it was 
about you that made Dan Gilman ask 
you to run?
Wiltsee: I think that whats really 
important in a student body presi
dent are two things. One is that you 
need to have an intimate knowledge 
of student government. There are so 
many little details that, if you dont 
know about them, if you havent been 
exposed to them, it just takes a long 
time to get into the job. But at the 
same time, senators tend to lose their 
touch of reality with the campus in 
some ways. They think that changing 
some document that would affect 
Senate, spending hours and hours 
putting commas in and headers to 
bills, you really lose sense of reality 
and the campus. Students dont care 
about that  it affects Senate and 
future senators. But in general you 
need an intimate knowledge not only 
of student government but also the 
student campus and whats going on.
The Tartan: What do you feel 
makes you so in touch?
Wiltsee: Ive been involved in a lot 
of things on campus. I was involved 
in Scotch n Soda, and Lunar Gala, 
and Dancers Symposium. Ive been 
an orientation counselor for two 
years, and Im in a sorority (Delta 
Gamma), so Im in touch with the 
Greek community. That, and as well I 
try and get around and introduce 
myself to as many people as possible.
The Tartan: Besides communica
tion between Senate and students, 
what do you see as major issues on 
campus?
Wiltsee: There arent enough ath
letic facilities on campus, and theres 
not enough performance space for 
non-majors. All that has really been 
lacking. Also, getting better trans
portation between the campus and 
the Waterfront, Squirrel Hill, and the 
airport. Academics is extremely 
important at our school to every sin
gle student, but students quality of 
lives in general needs to be improved 
so that they can have the best time 
here, and have the best experience 
here at college.
The Tartan: Should you be elected, 
what do you specifically plan to do to 
address issues?
Wiltsee: The Highlander space is 
something thats been under con
tention for a long time. I really want 
to push that to become either a din
ing facility again, or convert it into a 
dining facility and performance 
space. That would be something, as  
well as a continuation of what the 
Gilman administrations been doing, 
in terms of getting a shuttle from the 
University to the Waterfront, and 
possibly converting Danforth. If not 
more athletic facilities, then continu
ing the process of expanding the 
basement to get more athletic facili
ties down there, and then improving 
the facilities in Skibo.
The Tartan: Do you feel that you 
would be continuing what the 
Gilman administration has done, or 
would you do things differently?
Wiltsee: Obviously, I have a differ
ent leadership style than Dan 
[Gilman], but I think that it would be 
somewhat counterproductive to start 
on an entirely different path. Its 
important to have a continuation so 
that a lot of the things that Dan didnt 
get done in his past term be contin
ued, but also start afresh with a cou
ple of new things based on what the 
student body needs.
WARNER, from page A1
the street.
Its going to be a little crowded, 
but it will be fine, said Michael 
Murphy, dean of student affairs, 
about the move to Bramer House. 
Bramer House is among the 
Universitys smallest buildings and 
currently houses the Universitys 
Media Relations offices.
Perhaps the most unusual move 
will be that of Undergraduate 
Admissions. They are being moved 
to subdivided space in the 
Highlander dining room. The move 
comes immediately before one of 
Admissions busiest times of the 
year, as new students are admitted
and many make final pre-matriculation visits to campus.
Were going to make do. Were 
singularly focused on enrolling the 
class, said Michael Steidel, director 
of admissions. In the long term of 
things, its a healthier building.
Undergraduate admissions will 
need to move again when the pre
college program needs Highlander 
during the summer, but Steidel 
added that many of the functions 
admissions performs are not done 
from within their office spaces.
The process is expected to last 
through the end of July. The renova
tions of the two upper floors and 
minor changes necessitated by the 
asbestos abatement on the other
three will also be finished by the 
beginning of the fall semester. The 
removal of asbestos in Warner 
removes one obstacle from demol
ishing the building, which is called 
for in the most recent master plan. 
The process of asbestos abatement, 
however, is not connected to the 
buildings potential replacement, 
and is merely additional mainte
nance.
No worker in the building is at any 
risk of dangerous exposure that 
would require prolonged inhalation 
of particulate asbestos. Any remain
ing employees in the basement or on 
the sixth floor have nonetheless 
been given the option of relocation 
during the renovations.New advising task force formed
ADVISING, from page A1
were set up for student volunteers to 
discuss academic advising anony
mously. A possible problem with 
these focus groups is that they are 
composed of volunteers. They might 
not offer a realistic profile of the 
opinions of undergraduates as a 
whole. For this reason, the task force 
is considering the implementation of 
an online survey as part of the regis
tration process, so that more infor
mation about student opinion can be 
gathered.
The idea is not to say college X is 
doing a great job, and college Y is 
doing badly, said Roberts. The idea 
is to see exactly what it is that we
want to evaluate.... Were looking at 
the mechanics of how we advise. 
Currently each of the different 
colleges within CMU has a different 
advising system  some rely entire
ly on staff, others rely on staff and 
faculty, and others have a mentor 
system set up between faculty and 
students. The task force defines 
advisors very broadly, and estimates 
that there are roughly 160 people 
who work as advisors on campus, 
including people who work at the 
career center and student affairs. 
Many of these advisors have very dif
ferent methods and opinions on how 
advising should work, and one of the 
future goals of the task force is to 
learn what issues the advisors are
concerned with and what changes 
they suggest. One of the ideas that 
many advisors have raised is the cre
ation of a centralized organization 
or office for coordinating advising 
and ongoing assessment of advising 
between each of the different col
leges on campus.
Students are getting services 
from a lot of different people, said 
Claudia Kirkpatrick, co-chair of the 
task force and advisor for the Tepper 
School of Business. What kinds of 
needs do students have, and how are 
they met? One of the ideas 
Kirkpatrick supports is the creation 
of a mission statement or standard 
that would explain the goal of the 
campus for academic advising.
Bryant selected as new SCS dean
BRYANT, from page A1
Theoretical Ideas in Computer 
Science (15-251/351), a course he 
touts as being unique and among the 
most innovative in the computer sci
ence department. As dean, Bryant 
plans to continue the strong empha
sis on undergraduate education in 
the school.
Weve had a strong commitment 
to education at the PhD level and the 
last 10 years at the bachelors level, 
said Bryant. To continue his person
al commitment to undergraduate
education, he is still signed up to 
teach an undergraduate course this 
fall. Its important for the dean to be 
in close contact with the undergrad
uates, he said. He also intends to 
continue the entrepreneurial 
research model SCS uses: providing 
seed funding for projects for 
researchers without a strict permis
sion process.
SCS has been ranked at or near 
the top of its field for several years, 
and Bryant hopes to continue the 
tradition.
We want to make sure we stay up
there, he said. When youre at the 
top, there are people who want to be 
where you are. Among the concerns 
is recruitment; Computer Science is 
in a transition from high yield 
recruitment where it had the luxury 
of being very selective to a period of 
active recruitment, wherein it is now 
seeking out the best students for its 
programs.
Bryants old position as head of 
the Computer Science department 
will be filled by Jeanette Wing, asso
ciate dean for academic affairs for 
SCS.
THEARNbEyW arHrNb nreeRlR h
Jttmpt m% _ July 15, or
August 13IKafear 
'IIOSC 0740: four credits, three instructors
f-V v_ y ''' 'y'ii If  i;' ;>
k s' -0 . / -,  - * ^ *
CarnregiMlrnreg
mmON THE TRAIc
FFrida National Park 
ip Mountains,
 ~ "'s srNc dueeRW
.
\a
fuoc tEmEHli
htlp://mv\\\htviiV\k\)llL\i]L\pitt.e()u/aca()enuc\i/yi4Ln\\il0nL\i}liiilii- ^
~ - - v * ^ ~Contact (ASAP): Dr. Edward McCord, 624-6886, emiwr()@pUUJii(not accepting deposits) / :

---------------------------------------------------

Certified only at an authorized BMW center.
Gin wdttdWng ptanion,aW* ep na 6 gidtr at 100,000 m,,ir. Gin Alix,bli lidr,Wg dWd A,WdWo,Wg apn,aWr. Gin peti BRW.i i* * -mam \
ridtoh ep-na-ddni, ixniWr,vi ,WviWnatg dn bmwerd.oam
'Protection Plan provides coverage for up to 2 years or 50,000 miles (whichever comes first) from the date of the expiration of the 4 year/60,000 mile BMW New Vehicle Limited Warranty, See participating BMW passenger car center for details. For more information, call 1-800-334-4BMW, or visit 
bmwusa.com 2004 BMW of North America, LLC.The {JMW name and logo are registered trademarks. \ C a
Higher academic standards are good for everyone.
What a child learns today could have a major effect tomorrow. Not just on him or her, but on the rest of 
the world. Your world. Since 1992, we've worked to raise academic standards. Because quite simply, 
smarter kids make smarter adults. For more information, call 1-800-38-BE-SMART or visit www.edex.org.
The Business Roundtable * U.S. Department of Education  Achieve 
American Federation of Teachers  National Alliance of Business 
National Education Association * National Governors AssociationI AEducation . Lxcellenee Partnership
m
Certified shaker
Certified no more mac & cheese
Certified acceleration
Certified rush
Certified freedom
Certified bring it on
Certified Pre-Owned BMW
On your choice of medium 
Paper 
Or online
www. thetartan. org
Your time is valuable 
So we deliver whats 
important
Certified mover
BMW
Certified 
Pre-Owned
bmwusa.com Th Ultimate
1-S00-34*4BMW Driving Machine' ' '

---------------------------------------------------

29 March 2004THE TARTANPage A6
CMU students ride Vomit Comet over spring break sdTechBriefi
by Karen Hoffmann
Contributing Editor
Although plenty of students proba
bly experienced feelings of dizziness 
and vomiting over their spring break, 
its doubtful that they were studying 
astrobiology 30,000 feet above the 
ground at the time.
After spending months in space, 
astronauts return to earth with 
reduced bone mass, atrophied mus
cles, and decreased immune respons
es. To help understand why, four 
Carnegie Mellon students ran an 
experiment on NASAs Vomit 
Comet at Johnson Space Center in 
Houston on March 11 and 12. The 
Comet is a KC-135A aircraft that 
dives from 30,000 to 3000 feet, 
exposing its occupants to forces of 
zero Gs at its highest point and two 
Gs at its lowest. One G is about the 
amount of gravity youre experienc
ing right now.
James Torchia and Candi Spier, 
senior biological sciences majors, 
Sujata Emani, a junior chemistry 
major, and Caroline Chen, a junior 
biological sciences major, who call 
themselves Team Conscius, tested 
the effect of low gravity on cells as 
part of NASAs Reduced Gravity 
Student Flight Opportunities program 
(microgravityuniversity.jsc. nasa.gov).
Spier and Torchia had discussed 
the program in their first year at 
CMU, but didnt seriously think about 
participating until this year.
I remembered this program over 
the summer out of the clear blue, 
said Torchia. I wanted to come up 
with a project I could do on [the 
Comet], so I did a literature search. 
He found that actin, a core compo
nent of a cells cytoskeleton that 
could play a role in the physical prob
lems astronauts experience, was a 
topic ripe for reduced-gravity 
research.
* Previous research had found that
i structures that are called micro-n* -tubules, similar to the protein actin,
Clockwise from top left: Candi Spier doe a pushup while carrying Donn Sickorez, NASA university affairs officer; James Torchia and Sujata Emani enjoy their weight
lessness; Spier floats as crewmen look on; Caroline Chen and Spier do acrobatics. For more pictures, see zerog.jsc.nasa.gov/2004SpringCollegeCampaign/viewer.cgi.
become disorganized in space, so it 
may be that filaments of actin do the 
same. When actin forms filaments, it 
starts a process called signal traffick
ing, which impacts whether the cell 
gets weaker or stronger. If the process 
is disrupted, it could affect the cells 
organization, which in bone and 
immune cells may cause the astro
nauts decreased bone mass and 
immunity.
Once Torchia had decided on a 
topic, the rest of the team came 
together. Since Emani wants to be an 
astronaut, she was a natural choice. 
Shes been to space camp, and shes 
hardcore, said Chen.
Torchia overheard Emani and Chen 
talking in class about Emanis astro
naut dream. Caroline thought it was 
cool too, so I thought, thatd be awe
some, theyd probably want to be in 
my group then, said Torchia. Then I 
remembered Candi told me about the 
program a long time ago, so I asked 
her about it too, he said.
They used cells similar to neu
trophils, a type of immune cell, but 
their research could apply to actin 
formation in other types of cells as 
well. The cell culture they used came 
from Daniel Johnsons lab at the 
University of Pittsburgh Cancer 
Institute, where Torchia works.
To simulate low gravity, the team 
went up in the aircraft over a period 
of two days, two members at a time: 
Torchia and Emani went the first day,
Kevit CgytgAScietce yt3 necgtlBlgy 13isld
Now thats entertainment!
Workers hang a new fiber optic display board, on loan from the Entertainment Technology Center, in Kirr Commons.
Green Practices promotes monitor sleep
by Shilpa Desai
Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellons Green Practices 
is in the midst of a campaign to save 
energy through better computer and 
monitor management. This Sleep is 
Good campaign has been running 
throughout the course of the year, 
and will continue until 1000 moni
tors on campus have enabled their 
energy saving modes.
The Green Practices Committee 
had been looking for different initia
tives to save energy that would allow 
individuals to contribute. Green 
Practices goal in this campaign is to 
educate the campus community 
about saving the energy lost when 
computers are left idle.
According to Green Practices, 
there are approximately 20,000 
monitors on campus, and turning off 
monitors when they are not in use 
would save almost $5 per person per 
year, which amounts to nearly 
$100,000 per year for the University. 
To provide students with an incen
tive to participate in the campaign, 
Green Practices is offering a coupon 
for a free smoothie to students who 
fill out a survey and set up energy 
saver mode on their computers 
through the Sleep is Good website.
Sleep is Good is an important 
campaign for many reasons, said 
Catherine Piccoli, a sophomore his
tory major and intern at Green 
Practices. Students should care 
about this campaign because it saves
energy and benefits the environ
ment [by lessening carbon dioxide 
emissions]. Saving energy now will 
make for a better quality of life when 
we are older.
This campaign is a part of the larg
er national program endorsed by the 
Environmental Protection Agency
"... saving energy now 
will make for a better 
quality of life when 
we are older. Catherine Piccoli
(EPA) called the Million Monitor 
Drive. It was started last year by 
Energy Star, a government-backed 
program that helps businesses and 
individuals protect the environment. 
The drive addressed monitor power 
management on one million moni
tors nationwide last year, and is 
looking to address the same on two 
million monitors nationwide this 
year. It is projected to save 430 mil
lion kWh per year, enough to power 
over 340,000 households in one 
month. Green Practices says that the 
sleep mode on an average desktop 
computer reduces the energy it uses 
by 72%. Also, carbon dioxide reduc
tions for 2 million monitors equals 
52,000 cars emissions.
Jack Colbourn, chief of grants at 
the EPA, said, To make the transi
tion to power management easy, 
Energy Star developed EZ Save soft
ware that allows organizations to 
enable hundreds, or even thousands, 
of computer monitors at once from a 
central location. The Harvard 
University Kennedy School of 
Government (KSG) took advantage 
of this software, enabled 800 com
puter monitors to power down into 
sleep mode when not in use, and 
ended up saving approximately 
$14,000 a year on its energy bills. 
According to Steward Uretsky, asso
ciate dean and chief financial officer 
at KSG, the software enabling 
process was carried out in less than a 
few hours. Harvard University par
ticipated in the Million Monitor 
Drive last year, and has pledged its 
support this year.
Green Practices is looking to do 
multiple future projects in conserva
tion. Barbara Kviz, co-chair of the 
Green Practices Committee and 
environmental coordinator at 
Carnegie Mellon, said, This is the 
first in our conservation efforts  
we will be coming up with other ini
tiatives to save water and energy.
I like the fact that CMU is green. 
If we are given the chance to con
serve and better the environment, it 
only makes sense that we take that 
opportunity. Besides, we can all sac
rifice a little, said Bryan Senti, a 
junior in music composition.
For more information about the 
Sleep is Good initiative and to learn 
how to enable the energy saver 
mode on your computer, go to 
www.cmu.edu/greenpractices/sleepisgood.
Chen and Spier the second. They test
ed their cells at various time intervals 
at zero and two Gs (and, back on the 
ground, at one G).
At any given time, doctors, flight 
staff and 12 students were on the air
craft. During the week Team 
Conscius flew, students from 12 col
leges participated. Sixty-nine schools 
are participating in the program.
In a recent Carnegie Mellon News 
story, Spier, Torchia, and Emani were 
depicted as thrill-seeking adventur
ers (Spier skydives, Torchia is getting 
his pilots license, and Emani dreams 
of being in space); the article, howev
er, said that Chen would be medicat
ed on Dramamine for the ride, 
implying that she was most likely to
throw up. In fact, Spier was the only 
one to fulfill the promise of the 
Comets name (Emani did t00j but 
back on the ground). The students 
were given a combination stimulant 
and depressant called Scope-Dex, a 
mixture of scopolamine and 
Dexedrine: a muscle relaxant to 
reduce nausea and vomiting apd an 
alertness medicine, respectively. But, 
it turned out, it worked a bit'too well.
The upper overcompensated for 
the downer, said Torchia. We were 
bouncing off the walls. I
But the students trip CO Houston 
included time on the ground as well. 
In their free time, NASA folks sugSee CONSCIUS, page A7
by David Newsome
Staffwriter
The works of William Shakespeare 
have entertained students and capti
vated scholar^ for centuries^ but pro
fessors Michael Witmore of the 
English department and Jonathan 
Hope of Strathclyde University in the 
United Kingdom have taken the study 
of the Bard to a new level. Using a 
text analysis computer program 
called Docuscope, developed at CMU, 
they have made a preliminary analy
sis of the works of Shakespeare to see 
if the program can distinguish 
between the comedies, tragedies, and 
histories based purely upon a statisti
cal study of certain words. They 
found that, indeed, the program 
could distinguish between the come
dies and histories, while tragedies fell 
in between. They will present their 
discovery tomorrow at noon in a lec
ture in Scaife Hall.
The basis of this work is that when 
humans read text, they look for the 
most important and salient ideas and 
ignore the rest as background 
noise.
Whats in the background may not 
be noise at all, but the soundtrack 
that guides you (perhaps uncon
sciously) throughiyour experience of 
a text and helps it make sense to you 
as a certain kind of dramatic experi
ence, said Witmore. However, com
puters will read text in the same lin
ear fashion, but will process all words 
as being equally important. A statisti
cal analysis, then, of the words in a 
novel or play can lead to a greater 
understanding of the authors.
The point is that a computer can 
count anything, and will if told to do 
so. But a good computer program 
counts things that we, as humans, 
have deemed (on the basis of our lim
ited experiences) to be significant. 
Counting things with this kind of pro
gram is like being able to generalize a 
form of subjectivity to the poiiy that 
it can be applied uniformly over a 
massive amount of instances. Its the 
invariance of Docuscopes categories 
that makes its results interesting, not 
their objectivity,  said Witmdre.
Docuscope users define certain 
rhetorical feature's found in .the text 
to categorize words. They must pre
identify these features  ^s being 
important to describe a given genre. 
For example, First Person defines first 
person and possessive pronouns. 
These features can be redefined to 
improve the analysis of a text. After it 
reads in a set of works, it makes a sta
tistical analysis of the plays to rank
Groupings
Group 1i I i
King Ricfiard II |
Henry Vi, part i 
King John 
Henry V
Henry N, part 1 
Henry IV, part 2 
Henry VI, part 1 
Henry VI, part 2 
Richard III
The Comedy of Errors 
A Midsummer Night's Dream 
The Tempest
Group 2
The Taming of the Shrew 
Alls Well That Ends Well 
The Two Gentlemen of Verona 
The Merchant of Venice 
Twelfth Night 
As You Like It 
The Winters Tale
Loves Labours Lost 
King Henry VIII 
Much Ado About Nothing 
Measure For Measure
them in order of the frequency of 
words that appear. Docuscope shows 
the results in a graphical interface, 
listing all the statistics for each cate
gory in box plots and showing the dis
tribution of all of the considered 
works. Docuscope will also highlight 
and display the actual words it counts 
for a chosen feature, showing what it 
uses ih the statistical counts.
Witmore and Hope used the cur
rent form of Docuscope, which was 
unprepared for early modern text, to 
study the first published collection of 
Shakespeares plays. Docuscope and 
a separate statistical analysis pro
gram made comparisons between the 
results for each play and used the 
information to sort the plays into spe
cific groups and indicate which fea
tures were most important in defin
ing the groups of plays. The programs 
effectively separated the comedies 
and histories from each other based 
upon unqualitative word counts.
Genre has not been thought of as 
something with a statistically signifi
cant linguistic difference, The Times 
of London reported Hope as saying.
See DOCUSCOPE, page A7
Global iPod mini 
shipping delayed
Apple Corp. has delayed the 
international release date for its 
new iPod mini music player due to 
unexpectedly high demand in the 
United States. Sales of the new, 
smaller iPod in the U.S. began in 
February. International sales were 
slated to begin in April, but have 
been pushed back to at least July. 
High demand and pre-orders in the 
U.S. have eaten up projected pro
duction through June.
The company cannot start 
increasing the number of units pro
duced because of a shortage of 
hard drives. [Apple is] actually 
consuming just about all the 4 giga
byte, 1 inch drives they [Hitachi 
Corp.] make. As they make more, 
well get more, said Greg Joswiak, 
Apples vice president of hardware 
product marketing. Hitachi Corp. 
has said it will boost production to 
meet demand as soon as it can.
Source: CNN/Money
Robot to harvest 
underwater trees
A robotic, chainsaw-wielding 
submarine is now harvesting trees 
submerged by dammed rivers in 
British Columbia. The submarine 
weighs three tons and is about 
three and a half meters long. An 
operator on the surface uses highresolution cameras to identify 
trees, then attaches and inflates 
flotation bags to trunks and finally 
cuts the trunk with a chainsaw. The 
Triton Logging company developed 
the robo-submersible, called 
Sawfish, to replace divers who used 
to cut the trees by hand. The job is 
dangerous, slow, and costly for 
humans.
About 200 million trees stand in 
lakes created by hydropower dams 
around the world, and light- and 
oxygen-poor lakebed conditions 
cause them to die but not rot. When 
raised and dried, the underwater 
wood can make lumber of the same 
quality as regular trees. Provided 
its been in cold, close-to-anaerobic 
conditions, wood from submerged 
trees actually can be in very good 
condition indeed, said Rorke 
Bryan, dean of the University of 
Torontos faculty of forestry.
Source: New Scientist
NASA tests X-43 
prototype plane
Last Saturday, NASA set the 
world speed record in the skies over 
California with its X-43 experimen
tal aircraft, designed to travel at 
Mach 7, or seven times the speed of 
sound. The craft, which uses 
scramjets, reached,a top speed of 
4785 mph. Scramjets provide extra 
speed, but do not take effect until 
Mach 6. The unpiloted plane was 
the first test of a jet design that 
could someday propel spacecraft.
The flight started with a B-52 
bomber carrying the X-43 from 
Edwards Air Force Base to cruising 
altitude. A modified Pegasus rocket 
provided an extra speed boost 
before the X-43 was released and 
its scramjets activated. The X-43 
measures 12.1 feet long by 4.9 feet 
across by 2.0 feet high. A previous 
attempt to fly the X-43 ended when 
the launch mechanism failed and 
the craft was destroyed.
Source: BBC
Mosquito biology 
defeats malaria
Researchers at the European 
Molecular Biology Laboratory 
(EMBL) have isolated three mos
quito genes that affect the insects 
relationship with the malaria virus 
so deadly to other animals. Two oi 
the genes, CTL4 and CTLMA2, cre
ate proteins that protect the devel
oping malaria virus, while the 
other, LRIM1, works against the 
virus.
These studies are the first to 
show the power of the mosquitos 
immune system and give us some 
very real options for fighting the 
disease in the insect before it even 
has a chance to be passed to a 
human, said Fotis Kafatos, one ol 
the EMBL researchers.
Source: Scientific American
Compiled by 
Kevin Chang

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  MARCH 29, 2004
Plays categorized by content words
DOCUSCOPE, from page A6
Some anomalies did appear. For 
example, the plays The Comedy of 
Errors, A Midsummer Nights Dream, 
and The Tempest appear as histories, 
though Docuscope did place them 
together in a separate subsection. 
The Comedy of Errors, for example, 
was written early in Shakespeares 
career, perhaps before he fully devel
oped his writing style. Henry VIII 
appeared with the comedies, but his
torians note it for its qualitative dif
ferences to the other histories.
Witmore and Hope used 
Docuscope to analyze the plays, but 
labeled each play as a member of a 
group  comedy, history, or tragedy 
 to get a statistical count to see how 
Docuscope would distinguish
between the plays as members of one 
of these groups based upon rhetorical 
features, such as Interacting, 
Notifying, and Linear Guidance. The 
program did find statistical differ
ences between the comedies and his
tories using the Interacting category, 
explaining why they were separated 
into two groups. The comedies fea
ture more interaction between the 
characters, while the histories tend to 
feature longer speeches.
The use of Docuscope implies that 
researchers can expand the defini
tion of genres, such as history and 
comedy, from a purely qualitative 
definition to also an empirical and 
statistical one. It raises the possibility 
that genres such as tragedy are not 
that unique from other genres. The 
program allows people to study the
role of words in plays that normally 
go unnoticed, bringing up new ques
tions on the relation between genre, 
cultural identities, thought, and liter
ary styles, which will be included in 
the future work of Witmore and 
Hope.
The Docuscope tool helps espe
cially as an aid, not a substitute, to 
human readers of the texts. The 
application Witmore and Hope are 
making to Shakespeare scholarship 
through it are very much in that spir
it.... The tool has given them some 
ways of seeing the corpus that sup
plements what they know and that 
can advance scholarly interpreta
tions, wrote David Kaufer, head of 
the CMU English department and a 
co-developer of Docuscope, in an email.Students research zero-grav over break
CONSCIUS, from page A6
gested restaurants and clubs for them 
to visit. They toured Mission Control, 
went to astronaut briefings, and, as 
Spier mentioned offhandedly, even 
had dinner with a few astronauts. 
Now back in Pittsburgh, they will 
analyze their results using the tech
niques of flow cytometry and fluores
cence microscopy. After exposing the 
cells to a fluorescent marker that 
binds to actin, they will be able to see 
the actin in the cells under a fluores
cence microscope. Then they can find 
out how different gravities affect
actin development and how they 
affect cell organization.
Elizabeth Jones, head of the biolo
gy department, secured a Howard 
Hughes Medical Institute grant for 
the team, which also got a Small 
Undergraduate Research Grant 
(SURG). The team will present its 
research at CMUs Meeting of the 
Minds undergraduate research con
ference in May.
As part of the NASA program, they 
must do an outreach project. Theyre 
planning to work with the nonprofit 
organization Center of Life in the 
Hazelwood neighborhood to enhance
underprivileged students exposure 
to science.
With the help of Barry Luokkala, a 
principal lecturer in physics, the stu
dents also plan to teach a course on 
astrobiology this summer as part of the 
Pennsylvania Governors School for 
the Sciences. The high school students 
in the course will not only learn about 
the effects of outer space on the human 
body, theyll also get a chance to see 
the results of Team Conscius experi
ments and do their own experiments 
using the same cells and techniques 
the students used on the Comet.
Summeressions2004
Now's the time to get ahead, catch up, or just 
take a class for enjoyment -doit for you!
Zb More.S
DUOUESNE 
UNIVERSITY
School of Leadership & Professional Advancement
We make every burrito fast and fresh, right in front of you, with cilantro lime rice, black or pinto beans, grilled chicken or steak and more. Try our new 
Queso Burrito. All the good stuff plus our spicy, original 3-Cheese Queso sauce rolled up inside. All fast, fresh and affordable. All right here. So go on, try 
something new for a change. Not Just big burritos. Big flavors.
3712 forbes Ave, Pittsburgh, PA, 15213 * 412-802-7866 - www.qdobapgh.com
Qdoba and Not Just big burrltos. Big flavors, are registered trademarks of Qdoba Restaurant Corporation 2003.

---------------------------------------------------

Forum
Friird ia iyr ,Apiad
29 March 2004
Supreme Court cannot shy away; 
atheists deserve religious equality
Wednesday, the Supreme Court heard oral 
arguments for case 02-1624, Elk Grove Unified 
School District v. Newdow, better known as the 
Pledge of Allegiance Case. The case was 
appealed by Elk Grove after the ninth district 
circuit court held that Michael Newdows 
claim of the phrase under God as govern
mental establishment is correct.
Newdow, a self-proclaimed atheist, is argu
ing pro se (representing himself) and claims 
that his daughter is being indoctrinated 
against the anti-establishment clause of the 
First Amendment through the phrase. This 
phrase was a product of governmental para
noia during an uneasy time; when the Pledge 
was first written, it contained only a secular, 
patriotic message. In 1954, when organized 
prayer in public schools was still legal and 
commonly accepted, a unanimous vote in 
Congress added under God to the Pledge to 
distinguish us from the godless communists. 
But just as McCarthyism has been dismissed as 
overkill, under God has long outlived what 
scant, superficial purpose it originally had.
Nine out of 10 Americans believe the phrase 
should stay, but more highly educated 
Americans are less likely to agree. The govern
ment has a long tradition of ignoring minori
ties, whether they be racial, gender, or reli
gious, because it tends to suspect that minori
ty interests will threaten the common good. In 
this case, it is the will of the majority that 
threatens our freedom by placing personal 
beliefs above the law: Congress shall make no 
law respecting an establishment of religion. 
After 50 years, the majority of Americans have 
gotten used to saying under God, and may 
even feel strongly about it, but their illogical 
nostalgia is undermining the Constitution. 
Until Brown v. Board of Education 50 years 
ago, segregation reigned in Americas public 
schools because people clung to what had 
always been, instead of being guided by ideals 
about what should be.
While only Justice Antonin Scalia has for
mally recused himself from the case, other jus
tices have revealed their own strong religious 
biases. During oral arguments, conservative 
Chief Justice William Rehnquist cited the una
nimity of the original vote, asking how the 
phrase could be divisive if all of Congress 
agreed with it. Newdow responded in stride 
that a bias against atheists in America pre
vents them from being elected to such leader
ship positions.
The Court has a way to follow the 
Constitution while leaving the seemingly 
theocratic under God in place: Newdow only 
has partial physical custody  and no legal 
custody  of his daughter, and the court may 
find that he had no right to bring forth the suit 
at all, regardless of the Constitutional implica
tions. The Court must realize that regardless 
of Newdows custodial arrangements, the case 
is a legitimate protest on behalf of all atheists, 
especially atheist parents. If Newdow does not 
have his case heard, eventually someone else 
will try.
If the Court kills the case based on 
Newdows custody problems, it would only be 
the latest installment in a series of impotent 
decisions in interpreting the First and 
Fourteenth Amendments. The court is using 
convenient loopholes set up by the writ of cer
tiorari, including the outline of their goal for 
hearing the case. When organizing it, they 
realized the custody issue could later be used 
as an easy out if the Court wanted to ignore 
the major question.
If the Court has the integrity, it will overlook 
its own bias and interpret the Constitution: 
that under God is and always was an inap
propriate Congressional establishment. Our 
government should respect the separation of 
church and state outlined in the Constitution, 
regardless of individuals beliefs; this era 
could inaugurate a new era of religious toler
ance.University should be proud of 
opening up minority scholarships
Carnegie Mellon University took a bold step 
March 19 by increasing access to several of its 
scholarship programs. Responding to the 
Supreme Courts decision in Gratz v. Bollinger,
CMU no longer felt that it could support 
racially and sexually exclusive scholarships. In 
the Gratz decision, the Supreme Court ruled 
that the University of Michigan could not use 
point bonuses on an admissions rubric to bol
ster minority enrollment. This decision is a 
logical progression given that the use of race 
as a factor in such decisions was mandated to 
be a temporary measure, and is supported by 
the U.S. Department of Educations Office for 
Civil Rights (OCR)s recent statement that 
programs that use race or national origin as 
sole eligibility criteria are extremely difficult 
to defend. With affirmative action limited in 
scope last summer, the Universitys decision to 
audit its own affirmative action policies is 
laudable.
The programs in question are the Summer 
Program for Minority Students, the Judith 
Resnik Challenger Scholarship, and the 
Carnegie Mellon Scholarship Program. Each 
was previously limited to groups of students 
relatively underrepresented at Carnegie 
Mellon: racial minorities and women. By 
changing their policies before complaints such 
as those by the American Civil Rights Institute 
and the Center for Equal Opportunity were 
reviewed by the OCR, the administration has 
shown that it is committed to moving towards 
the day where such superficial divisions of 
humanity no longer matter.
Opponents of the administrations move 
may try to claim that scholarships earmarked
Editorial Dissent
The United States Supreme Court should be lauded for its decision; arbitrary divisions for the 
purpose of racial quotas do very little to benefit society. Immediately removing the reasons for 
distinctions in admissions scholarships, though, completely misses the spirit of the decision, 
which aimed only to limit races effect on admissions.
The Office of Admission is one of the few departments at the University where diversity 
branches beyond racial tokenism to actually create a richly varied student body. The CMU and 
Resnik scholarships only helped to enable students from underrepresented backgrounds in their 
enrollment; removing those restrictions means promoting a weaker, more homogeneous stu
dent body.
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Since 1906
for minority and women students are needed 
to provide diversity to the campus communi
ty. This claim is insulting to members of such 
groups. The scholarships and programs were 
never designed to enable people to attend 
CMU who otherwise could not \all of them 
have been and are still need-blind.
They make the argument that removing 
these programs will send the students to other 
universities which retain such programs. They 
take something outside of a students control, 
be it sex or race, and turn it into a commodity 
to be fought for. Such narrow definitions of 
diversity devalue the individual, effectively 
calling all members of a particular race or sex 
equally diverse.
By opening the scholarships to all races and 
sexes, CMU acknowledges that the intellectual 
and philosophical diversity that all universi
ties seek can be found in people of any race or 
sex. Students who earn the new race- and gender-blind scholarships can be proud to count 
themselves among the Universitys best, not 
just the best within the arbitrarily narrowed 
categories.
Similar changes have been made to pro
grams in many other schools, such as Yale, 
Amherst, and St. Louis University, and it is 
likely that this type of universal access to 
earned opportunities will continue to be made 
at other universities, as admissions officers 
realize that full equity in enrollment is imper
ative to intellectual diversity.
Carnegie Mellon should stand proud of 
what it has done, and not be afraid to explain 
to those who would prefer backward progress 
why such actions are necessary.
EDITORIAL BOARD 
ALEX MESEGUER 
Editor-in-Chief
JIM PULS, Managing Editor ADAM GREENBERG, Forum Editor
J.T. TROLLMAN, Photo Editor JAMES AUWAERTER, Copy Manager
CELANIE POLANICK, Contributing Editor ELI POUSSON, Comics Editor
EDITORIAL STAFF
BARY DUNN, News Editor CHRISTINA KUNG, Asst. News Ed.
MICHELLE M. BOVA, Pillbox Editor MEG RICHARDS, Asst. Production Mgr.
EVAN SUNDWICK, Sports Editor* XANDER VEERHOFF, Asst. Personnel Mgr. *
KEVIN CHANG, Sci. & Tech. Editor
ANNALISA SCHAEFER, Dossier Literary Ed.
NICK POZEK, Dossier Design Editor*
BRIDGET LEWIS, Art Editor
SAAGAR PATEL, Online Editor
KRISTEN HWANG, Business Manager
REKHA NAIR, Advertising Manager
FRANKLIN WILLIAMS, Production Manager
LUCAS YIANNATJI, Personnel Manager
RUYA BARAZ, Darkroom Manager 
* indicates acting position
n <;
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS 
Jeff Cullers, John Davin, 
Karen Hoffmann, Neal R. Shyam
THE TARTAN Pdgi A8
Dear Editor:
I took great interest in your editorial 
about dorm security. I agree that Carnegie 
Mellon students need to be more responsi
ble for their safety. However, I was a little 
taken aback by your comments on desk 
attendant enforcement.
I am a desk attendant for Housing, and 
have been since last summer. I work the 
West Wing shift every weekday afternoon, 
and I see dozens of residents come in and 
out; by now Ive even come to recognize 
them all as fellow students. Heres what
happens when I ask students to show me 
their ID cards: They explain that they left it 
upstairs, they groan and dig through their 
bag until the elevator arrives (thus allowing 
them to escape), or they tell me to go to hell. 
To me, that doesnt sound like a concern for 
security. And no, I cant really run after any
one. Im not allowed to leave the desk unat
tended, and even if I could pursue an intrud
er, what am I going to do? Im not trained in 
physical combat.
I know a lot of us desk attendants try to 
enforce the rules, but not everyone wants to 
follow them  especially since a housing
key or ID card can open the doors anywa; 
And I admit, its a pain to have to flash an I 
card every time. But if anyone has any suj 
gestions for better security, Im sure th 
graduate coordinator of desk services woul 
appreciate them.
Thank you,
Tyson Schrader
Sophomore
English & Creative Writing
Country needs to face gay marriage 
Geim Pomk&
CeBytie ulBytick
In a bold move heretofore unimagined by 
mainstream American politics, Benton 
County, Ore., is acting as a whole to espouse 
the value of sexual tolerance. Last 
Wednesday, the county told straight couples 
seeking a marriage license that they would 
have to wait or leave town to marry until 
their gay counterparts had the states goahead to get married in town as well. After 
handing out the last licenses the night 
before, officials prepared for the onslaught 
of media attention.
It may seem odd, Benton County 
Commissioner Linda Modrell told a Reuters 
reporter via telephone, but we need to treat 
everyone in our county equally.
Oregons Attorney General, Hardy Myers, 
said he was very pleased with the deci
sion, and that hoped that the legal process 
would provide clarity in due time.
Meanwhile, conservative watchdog 
groups howled in consternation: We are 
happy Benton County is not going to violate 
the law by issuing illegal marriage licenses, 
but we are perplexed as to why they would 
not issue legal licenses, said Defense of 
Marriage Coalition spokesman Tim Nashit. 
He called the license ban an invitation to a 
lawsuit.
Legality is not the issue here. This county 
is withholding marriage licenses to force a 
sense of solidarity on Bentons straight cou
ples, ironically using equality of opportunity 
to drag them headlong into a sense of under
standing about what the business end of 
inequality feels like.
The law may have a bone to pick with 
Oregon, though; as of last Wednesday, the 
ACLU will bring a suit against the state or an 
unnamed state entity for not recognizing 
2550 marriage licenses issued by nearby 
Multnomah County to gay couples since 
"March 3. Multnomah continues to issue 
same-sex licenses, even as San Francisco 
and other bastions of liberalism have 
stopped, quietly or by force (as in New 
Mexico, where a restraining order was 
issued in Sandoval County to stop a clerk 
from issuing same-sex marriage certifi
cates).
Granted, the media doesnt seem to be 
digging up irate, conservative citizens of 
Benton County, broadcasting their annoy
ance as proof that the countys decision 
doesnt represent its constituents will on 
this matter.
Maybe thats because doing so wouldnt 
serve the medias laissez-faire moral agen
da. But maybe, just maybe, its because the 
citizens of Benton have been put in the 
unusual position of questioning their 
assumptions about their neighbors, their 
rights, and their government.
Yes, the county got angry phone calls and
e-mails, but some couples got their licens* 
a few days ahead of time, and the rest a 
drive to the next county. Business owne 
say theyre not worried about loss of re 
enue and think the situation will be resolvf 
before it can drain money from the loc 
economy.
Kristy Walton, head pastry chef and ge 
eral manager of New Morning Bakery
See OREGON page i 
1.......
McGdegldAAdsTime to re-evaluate nuclear powe
Twenty-five years ago yesterday, one of 
the reactors at the Three Mile Island nuclear 
plant near Harrisburg suffered a partial 
meltdown. While the plants engineers were 
able to shut it down effectively before it 
caused a total disaster, thousands of gallons 
of radioactive water spewed from a con
trolled area and thousands of radioactive 
fuel rods were ruptured.
This catastrophe created a mass hysteria 
in the American community; Walter 
Cronkite opened the CBS Evening News that
night by calling the incident the first step in 
a nuclear nightmare. Since the incident, no 
new construction of nuclear power plants 
has happened in the United States, except
ing the completion of one plant that was 
already under construction. Unfortunately, 
this country has failed to realize in the inter
vening two and a half decades that all of the 
fear, uncertainty, and doubt surrounding 
nuclear power was totally unfounded.
Numerous reports, including one issued 
earlier this month by the United States 
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC), 
have shown that almost no lingering health 
effects exist from the incident; according to 
the NRC, the average dose of radiation to 
the millions of residents of the area was less 
than the total dose from a standard chest Xray.
Furthermore, most of what led to the ] 
tial meltdown of the reactor was causec 
gross mismanagement and negligence 
the part of the people running the plant, 
by anything inherently unsafe about nuc 
energy. As investigation after investiga 
has shown since the incident, the safety 
tures of the plant kicked in and open 
correctly on that fateful day; had they 
gone ignored by plant workers, notl 
would have ever happened.
Unlike the United States, other couni 
throughout the world have continuec 
build nuclear reactors with overwhelmi: 
positive results. According to
See NUCLEAR, pagi
AttyBisy ScgyefedADlssied Lisedydy 13is

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  MARCH 29, 2004
Nuclear power generation 
deserves a second chance
NUCLEAR, from page A8
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), 
there are currently 440 nuclear reactors pro
viding more than 360 net terawatts of power 
to the world. This figure represents roughly 
15 percent of the worlds energy supply; in 
some countries, the number is much higher.
France gets more than three quarters of its 
power from 59 nuclear reactors; of them, 53 
have been built since the incident at Three 
Mile Island. No major incidents have 
occurred there. Other countries with large 
amounts of power from nuclear fission 
include Lithuania (80 percent) and Slovakia 
(65 percent); Japan has 53 reactors provid
ing 44 terawatts of power.
In fact, in the history of nuclear power, 
there have only been two major incidents: 
the 1979 partial meltdown of Three Mile 
Island reactor #2 (TMI 2) and the much 
worse explosion on April 26, 1986, at 
Chernobyl in present-day Ukraine. In con
trast to what was mostly a non-incident in 
Harrisburg, the Chernobyl incident severely 
impacted hundreds of thousands of lives.
The main similarity between TMI 2 and 
Chernobyl, though, is that both were caused 
by human error. TMI 2 would not have been 
an incident had operators heeded warnings 
in weeks leading up to it, and the Chernobyl 
event happened while operators had deacti
vated safety procedures to run some experi
mental tests on the reactor.
Human error causes many of the major 
accidents that we hear about. Its not unrea
sonable to think that a coal power plant
could explode from negligence of its opera
tors and cause just as much damage as a 
nuclear meltdown.
Even with all of the construction in the 
last 25 years, no nation comes anywhere 
close to the nuclear output of the United 
States; 103 reactors still operate today and 
provide 97 terawatts of power. All of them 
have continued to run safely since before 
TMI 2; several more have been safely shut 
down.
Concerns mounted two years ago when 
inspectors found a large hole in the outer 
shell of the Davis-Besse reactor in Ohio; an 
acidic coolant had eaten the opening in the 
steel shell. This incident only underscores 
how important a renewed commitment to 
nuclear energy is; as long as the industry is 
neglected, problems like this will continue to 
crop up.
The Bush administration outlined a plan 
that calls for at least one new nuclear plant 
by 2010; if anything, this plan is a step in the 
right direction. Nuclear energy today is the 
only globally feasible power source with a 
lower unit cost than coal. Nuclear is a major 
option for this country today, and it has 
stood the test of time. New technology is 
only making nuclear power safer; it is time 
for America to stop being scared of a golden 
opportunity to move into the future.
Tartan Managing Editor Jim Puls (jpuls@) 
has fond memories of visiting the energy muse
um at the Zion reactor in Illinois as a child. He 
finds it really disturbing that he agrees with a 
policy decision by the Bush administration.
Bdi3ges LewisAAds 13isld
Straight couples affected by 
same-sex marriage debate
QflGON, from page A8
Corvallis, would be baking wedding cakes 
and catering receptions if not for the ban, 
but when it comes to gay rights, she has big
ger fish to fry.
If I were in that position, Walton said, I 
would want to be able to have the same 
rights as anybody else has.
Some citizens of Benton are angry, no 
doubt, that their legal rights are being 
deprived temporarily, and may feel threat
ened by this temporary inconvenience. But 
in an age of pure litigious selfishness, it took
a largely liberal county like Benton to set an 
example for the rest of the nation. We dont 
know whether change will stem from 
Bentons brave stand against the state. We 
dont know what the backlash will be. But 
we now know that government doesnt have 
to remain neutral while some of its citizens 
are trying to keep others from life, liberty, 
and the pursuit of happiness.
Celanie Polanick (celanie@) 5 a senior drama 
and professional writing major. She looks for
ward to marriage  her own and everybody 
elses.
Gambling better left to the state
A3yr Gdeetbedg
Recently in the news: gambling interests in 
Pennsylvania have been giving money to key 
state and municipal officials campaign funds in 
order to coax them into legalizing slot machines 
at the states horse racing tracks. The goal of 
Penn National Gaming, the corporation behind 
most of the contributions  aside from entirely 
being a bribe  is not in the interest of the state 
or its denizens. It desires the state to legalize 
gambling entirely for its own profit, without a 
care for the citizens, its patrons. Control of the 
new facilities should not be sold to the highest 
bidder for quick cash, but rather held by the 
state for continuing profits.
Gambling itself is an idea whose profits, 
although acquired through the foolish get rich 
quick thinking of the users, will be quite useful 
for the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. Among 
the named direct beneficiaries of such revenue 
would be the states schools and transit systems, 
both badly in need of funding; also potentially 
named are the Pittsburgh Penguins, who are 
seeking state assistance for their new facility to 
be built just south of the Civic Arena.
But while the reasons for constructing gaming 
annexes to existing gambling facilities are obvi
ous  keeping state residents in Pennsylvania, 
instead of sending them to casinos in West 
Virginia, Delaware, and Connecticut  using 
the gambling institutions who are paying the 
election-year kick backs is neither beneficial nor 
feasible. Like many aspects of this state, the 
chance to start gaming off within the tight con
trol of state officials should not be overlooked.
It has been proposed that casino operations 
both the slots at racetracks and potential riverboat gambling on the Delaware River in 
Philadelphia  should be operated by the state, 
with state employees, and direct and full state 
control.
The proposal actually parallels how the 
Pennsylvania Liquor Control Board (LCB) oper
ates its facilities; though many residents feel 
that LCB prices are inflated, the combination of 
convenience and prohibition on alcohol impor
tation keep the commonwealth as the largest 
importer of liquor in the country. With gam
bling, the prohibition would be illogical and dif
ficult, since it would be transporting money  
money that you could never have to account for 
if you earned it legally  across the state bor
ders. Convenience, though, is a big draw; 
regardless of who is running the games, 
Pennsylvanian patrons are going to stay within 
the borders, especially if its well-publicized that 
profits go to good causes, much like the way 
Pennsylvania operates its state lottery.
If the state intends to permit gambling entire
ly as a profit generator  and legalizing gam
bling seldom has any other purpose  it must 
retain control of the facilities. Not only can this 
retention serve to defer the crime and general 
seediness that often follow the legalization, but 
it will ensure that employees are given equitable 
treatment and fair benefits from the employer, 
as is done with the states LCB retail stores 
employees. It makes economic sense that in the 
long term, the state can generate more money 
with ownership than with an initial sale, and its 
that revenue that may serve to lower 
Pennsylvanias already inflated tax structure.
Adam Greenberg (agreenbe@) is the Forum 
Editor and has never used a slot machine. He 
would like it, though, if all his good actions were 
followed by flashing lights, sirens, and a big payoff.
Terror continues to affect elections
(j
& Jeff CReff CuBBeds
How to deal with terrorists bent on destroying 
a way of hfe? That is the question of our age. 
Some build fences. Others elect pacifist social
ists to lead them. Some churn out sharply word
ed pieces of paper. Others overthrow regimes 
and kill enemy leaders.
On Wednesday, the United Nations Security 
Council took the paper mill approach by 
attempting to condemn Israels recent assassina
tion of Hamas founder and spiritual leader 
Ahmed Yassin. The motion was foiled by a veto 
from Israels ally, the United States.
In the past, the U.S. might have agreed with 
the rest of the Security Council, but now that the 
U.S. pursues a similar policy regarding terrorist 
leaders we cannot fault Israel. Curiously, Spain 
voted in favor of condemning Israel, despite suf
fering the worst terrorist attack in its history just 
a few short weeks ago.
The fate of this latest Security Council resolu
tion demonstrates the polarization of the world 
between two irreconcilable schools of thought 
regarding terrorism. The first advocates backing 
off, giving in, and appeasing terrorists. The sec
ond advocates taking the fight to the terrorists 
though military and covert action. The UN obvi
ously takes the former approach. In addition to 
condemning all terrorist attacks against any 
civilians as well as all acts of violence and 
destruction, the failed resolution regarding 
Israel called for a complete cessation of extraju
dicial executions. This statement effectively 
says that attacking anyone if they are not, at the 
exact moment, attacking you as well is not okay 
with the UN. This is a dangerous concept. 
Everyone knows who Ahmed Yassin was: the 
spiritual fire behind Hamas terrorist campaign 
who dedicated most of his life to the destruction 
of Israel. Will the UN only accept the capture 
and trial of a man like Yassin as a valid method 
for fighting terrorism?
Israel definitely takes the latter, proactive 
approach to dealing with terrorism. The United 
States, at least for now, does as well. At first 
glance it seems that being a victim of terrorist 
attacks is the best predictor for how a country 
reacts to terrorism, however such is not the case. 
Spain has recently been the victim of mass ter
rorist bombings of its rail system in Madrid, with 
nearly 200 dead. The presumed perpetrator is 
al-Qaeda and the event has even been called
Spains 9/11. However, Spanish voters did not 
demand action against terrorists or rally behind 
current prime minister Jos Maria Aznar, who 
supports the Iraq war with troops. Instead, 
Spanish voters caved in to terrorists the first 
chance they got by electing socialist Jos Luis 
Rodriguez Zapatero as Aznars replacement.
Aznar was projected to easily win the election 
before the attacks, thus the upset serves as a tes
tament to the power terrorists can wield over 
Western politics. A recent cover of The Economist 
depicted al-Qaedas enemies as a deck of cards, 
with Aznars face crossed off. No doubt al-Qaeda 
can count as friends leaders like Zapatero, 
whose election platform was the remdval of 
Spains small but politically significant contribu
tion of troops to the occupation of Iraq. Despite 
concerns of cowardice on the part of Zapatero 
and pressure by the U.S. and UK, Zapatero is 
holding firm and intends to remove Spanish 
troops unless coalition forces are put under con
trol of the UN. Evidently, he trusts the UN to 
more effectively administer a terrorism-saturated country.
In the wake of Spains abrupt about-face in its 
terrorism policy, one might wonder what 
American voters will do in November. John 
Kerry, although voting in favor of the Iraq war, 
criticizes Bushs handling of it and in the past 
consistently voted to cut our nations first line of 
defense against terrorism  the CIA  along 
with the our military.
Kerry, being the political chameleon that he 
is, leans more toward the pacifist school of 
thought in order to capitalize on the Lefts dis
dain for the war. Much of his terrorism platform 
involves improving Americas response capabili
ty. In other words, he advocates waiting for us to 
be attacked again and doing a better job of ame
liorating the damage. No more invasions of 
other countries. What Kerry has in his favor is 
that most of the rest of the world subscribes to 
this school of thought.
Recent events in Spain cast into doubt the 
idea that another major terrorist attack on 
American soil will seal George W. Bushs victory 
in November. Is the U.S. really safer after the 
invasions of Afghanistan and Iraq? If you ask 
France, Germany, the UN, and now Spain, the 
answer is no. If you ask George W. Bush and 
Ariel Sharon, the answer is yes. Come 
November, we will see which school of thought 
American voters believe in.
Jeff Cullers (jcullers@) is a senior social and deci
sion sciences major. He accepts all responsible 
replies.
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Since 1906
SENIOR STAFF 
Albert Cohen, Nick Marino
STAFFWRITERS 
Dan Ceppos, Michael Croland, Shilpa 
Desai, Khalid El-Arini, Joe Elliott, Ben 
Hackett, Kirk Higgins, Colin Holloway, 
Chelsea Kellner, Mustafa Khan, Jenny 
Kim, Alexandra Kilduff, Molly 
McAshan, Jonathan Mendelson, David 
Newsome, Laura Palotie, Rachel 
Papernick, Lauren Sauer, Caleb Stright, 
James Tetlow, Katherine Thompson, 
Cecilia Westbrook, Hannah Yi
ART
Sherry Chang, Brenna Ivanhoe, Bum 
Lee, Grace Li, Lizza McGregor, Laura 
Semesky, Vanessa Shyu, Margaret 
Szeto, Charles Wright, Joseph Yu
COMICS 
Josh Atlas, Zachary Beard, Bill 
Bernstein, Amy Bickerton, Chris 
Boette, Jonathan Brodsky, Franz 
Harter, Andrew Klein, Ben Magallon, 
Scott Niekum, Gregory Prichard, Bob 
Rost, Ed Ryan, Yann Seznec,
Dinah Winnick
PHOTO
Jennifer Anttonen, Namtarn Chaipan, 
Anthony DAuria, Julie Frederking, 
Natalie Gonzalez, Wenyao Ho, Eugene 
Hsia, Veronique Lee, Matt Meurer, - 
Michael Preysman, Orathai Sukwong, 
Kathy Saye, Shafeeq Sinnamohideen, 
Henry Tsai
COPY
Catherine Fan, Adina Klein,
Arthur ODwyer
AD STAFF 
Sureena Bhansali, Julian Chun, Piya' 
Dey, Ruchika Goswami, Aditi Raturi, 
Puja Talati
JUNIOR STAFF 
Sid Butalia, Erin Danehy, Elizabeth 
Dobson, Julia Frederking, James Hart, 
Daniella Kraut, Luke Krzyzanowski, 
Ponnurangam Kumaraguru, Nayema 
Kuddus, Will Minton, Stephanie 
Natale, Erica Nrnberg, Amrut Pati, 
Christina Shin, Mukund Sureshbabu
The Tartan is the student newspaper of 
Carnegie Mellon University. The first issue is 
free. Additional copies can be purchased for 
.25 each. It is a weekly newspaper published 
by students during the fall and spring semesters. 
It is printed by the Valley News Dispatch. 
Subscriptions are available for the semester or 
academic year. The editorials appearing at the 
beginning of the opinion section are the official 
opinion of The Tartan editorial board. Columns 
and political cartoons are the opinions of indi
vidual creators. The Tartan reserves the right to 
reject or condense any column or political car
toon. Letters to the Editor are opinions of 
authors who are usually, but not necessarily, 
members of the University community. A letter 
intended for publication must be signed and 
include the writer's address and phone number 
for verification. Names may be withheld upon 
request. The Tartan requests that letters be no 
longer than 350 words. The Tartan reserves the 
right to condense or reject any letter. Letters to 
the Editor must be submitted by 5 pm the 
Thursday before publication. Copyright  2004 
by The Tartan. The Tartan editorial board 
reserves the right to withhold from publication 
any copy it deems unfit for publication. Office: 
University Center Room 314. Phone: (412) 268- 
2111. Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 1017/ 
Carnegie Mellon University/
Pittsburgh, PA 15289-1017.
E-mail:
tartan@andrew. emu. edu 
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress 
ISSN#:0890-3107.
The Tartan is a member of the Associated 
Collegiate Press.
m Hagso LHcou PRES
Because of renowned terrorist defense attorney Jacques Verges offer to the family 
of the fallen dictator, we asked:
What do you think about a French attorney offering to defend 
Saddam Hussein in the International Court?
A PERSONS OPINION
Compiled by Jeff Cullers
Erin Weber
Rutild
> Desigt yt3 usycglBlgy
rmrrv I think it will aggravate animosity 
y.j. between the French and the Americans.
Jessica Chiu
Slpglrlde
MecgyticyB 1tgiteeditg
Maybe after Jacques loses, they will 
put him on trial.
Kristina Ball
Fidss-yeyd Ssu3ets 
Ddyry
No Iraqi can defend Saddam because 
they have no legal system.
Liz Jordan
Rutild
Adcgisecsude
I dont see how anyone could possibly 
defend the guy.
Theodore Trebaol
Fidss-yeyd ssu3ets 
1C1
What else would you expect from the 
French?

---------------------------------------------------

Excitement. Adventure
 mmmm I * I ISurprise. Thrills.
This ain't your parents travel agency ...it's yours.
Dog Breath Is A Crime!!!
$49 Teeth Cleaning*London................$355
Mexico City__$397
Frankfurt............$480
Accommodations & activities;
BflRGSLOflfl
3 nights, bar crawl and more
Ftam:
HEUU GRLPfiP
10 nights, VIP hostel pack
From:Fyde is round sdip fdlr uIn yt3 pdices yde ped pedslta udices 3l not itcBu3e sdytsfeds ld yidfydea Subjecs sl cgytge ydi3 yvyisybiBisya nyx tls itcBu3e3a Ressdicsilts yt3 biyckluss yppBya Fydes yde vyBi3 fld ssu3etss, fycuBsy yt3 ylusg ut3ed 26a
*Only performed in the absence 
of Gum Disease
Ask about our professional : 
breath products 
Same Day Emergency Care 
10% Courtesy on future treatment
(Students & Faculty)
liI
\i
Serving the Community With 
Exceptional Care Since 
1989
Call Today: 412-681-8011
One stop. No hassles.
We've got everything you 
need for your next trip.TRAVEL
118 Meyran Ave
(412) 683.1881
www.statravel.com
MMMM M M Hk MMM 8 i nill'B"11* BHHfe SBL Wl SB t at e~~ \ L W l I.^STUDENT TRAVEL & BEYOND
RESIDENNE INN BY RARRIOTT
Series sponsor:% Mellon
Student ticket sponsor:
~~PGPSt
STUDENT RUSH TICKETS on sale at the Pittsburgh Symphony Box Office two hours before the concert with 
a-valid student ID, or buy discounted tickets in advance at the University Center information desk.
For more information call 412.392.4900 orunvw.pittsburgbsympbony.org3896 Bigelow Boulevard Oakland  Pittsburgh, PA 15213 * (412) 621-2200  www.residenceinn.coin/pitro
PITTSBURGH SYMPHONY
Music for Everyone - Music for your Life
PITTSBURGH / OAKcAND
ASK ABOUT OUR NARNEGIE REccON UNIVERSITY RATES!
(Niw Pdn,iWnr OWlg - d $30 vdlei) <
Includes gum Evaluation, Bitewing 
X-Rays, Basic Cleaning, and 
Examination
University Dental Care 
JOHN. W. HART, D.D.S.
200 N. Craig Street 
Take the CMU Shuttle
www.universitydentalcare.com
Mellon BflRG SLlOOHEO
Join us for a taste of home at the Residence Inn GatehouseT where you can start your day right 
with a tall glass of 0J, steaming hot oatmeal, fresh scrambled eggs, or maybe some tasty waffles.
174 Spycilus Suises (wisg fuBB kiscgets)24-Hlud Messyge Cetsed A Vlice MyiB
ngdee Meesitg Rllrs (lved 2,000 sqa fsa) It3lld ullB yt3 WgidBpllB
Hls Bdeykfyss DyiBy (itcBu3itg scdyrbBe3 eggs yt3 BeBgiyt wyffBes) Fistess Cetsed
1vetitg SlciyB Hlud (Mlta-ngudsa) CybBe nV wisg uderiur CgytteBs
DyiBy Newspyped uess Accepse3
SgussBe Vyt Sedvice (wisgit 3-riBe dy3ius) Lyut3dy FyciBisies lt 1ycg FBlld
Secude It3lld Gydyge Fdee Higg-Spee3 Itsedtes
RED BULL GIVES YOU WIIINGS. 
OH, AND A GREAT OPPORTUNITY.
Red Bull is on the lookout for a Student Brand Manager (SBM). An 
SBM is a reliable and motivated student whose responsibilities include brand 
development on campus, market analysis and having a great time.
Our expectations from you are the following:
 Youre going into your second year or higher at this school.
 You have a good knowledge of when/where things are happening.
 Youre interested in marketing and have good communication skills.
 You have an entrepreneurial spirit and are outgoing.
Does this sound like you? If so, go to: www.redbullu.com.
ROOM TO RELAX, ROOM TO WORK, ROOM TO BREATHE.
Friday, March 26,2004,8:00 pm 
Sunday, March 28,2004,2:30 pm
Pittsburgh Symphony Heinz Hall, in the head of the Cultural District
nCHAIKOVSKY: ulBltyise fdlr Eugene Onegin 
nCHAIKOVSKY: VilBit Cltcedsl 
nCHAIKOVSKY: Manfred Symphony
nge uS0 weBclres 3ytyric clt3ucsld VyBedy Gedgiev fld sgis 
yBB-ncgyiklvsky pdlgdyr, sglwcysitg ryty si3es lf sge gdeys 
clrplseda ncgyiklvsky sglws gis gdyce wisg sge ulBltyise fdlr 
Eugene Onegin. His pyssilt sgites it gis VilBit Cltcedsla At3 
gis Manfred Symphony seBBs yt epic ssldy lf y sldretse3 gedla
Behind The Notes Concert Preview (lte glud beflde sge cltceds): 
Peter Ilyich Tchaikovsky- At yppdeciysilt lf lte lf cByssicyB 
rusics rlss beBlve3 clrplsedsa
f
Triple Tchaikovsky
Valery Gergiev, clt3ucsld 
Mikhail Simonyan, vilBit

---------------------------------------------------

Catch Up Or Get 
Ahead On Credits
At The Johns Hopkins University
Summer Session I
Summer Session !!  June 28 - August B 
Summer Session ill  July 12 - August 18 
Saturday Morning Classes  June 5 - August 14
New talent 
comes to the 
NL Central
BASEBALL, from page A12
diate), KUPC 57" and Under 
(minors), and Fresh Meat Worst 
(women).
Softball  The season starts tonight 
on the stadium fields. All games will 
be played as scheduled unless noti
fied by the IM Office. Schedules are 
available in the IM Office.
Carnegie Mellon
HOMEAWAYAdministration
Director:
Mike Mastroianni, x8-2214 or mma8 
Asst. Director:
Mike Grzywinski, x8-2214 or immike 
Secretary:
Amy Kiryk, x8-2053 or kiryk 
President:
Derek Ritchea, dritchea 
Womens President:
Karoline Evans, koe 
Vice President:
Shawn Quinn, squinn
Foul Shooting  The foul shooting 
competition will be held tonight and 
tomorrow in the UC Gym from 
6:30-9 pm. You can shoot as an indi
vidual or a team of four. Each person 
shoots 100 shots. You can shoot 50 
on each day.
With the hitting finally secure, the 
Cubs no longer need to rely on pitch
ing to win games, but because the 
pitchers can still carry the team 
Chicago should be the team to beat in 
the NL.
Kerry Wood, Mark Prior, and Greg 
Maddux are complemented by an 
improved Carlos Zambrano and talent-laden Matt Clement to form an 
incredible starting rotation. LaTroy 
Hawkins gives them the bullpen help 
they needed, and closer Joe Borowski 
looks to build on last years breakout 
season, giving the Cubs comfort in 
the late innings for the first time in 
years.
Prior will return from a minor 
injury to win the Cy Young, and the 
Cubs will not only win the Central, 
but the World Series.
March 30 March 31 April 1
TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY
March 29 
MONDAY
April 2 
FRIDAY
April 3 
SATURDAY
April 4 
SUNDAY
MENS AND 
WOMEN'S 
TRACK
Western PA 
Champtionship 
TBA
McDaniel College 
Spring Inv. 
Noon
McDaniel College 
Spring Inv. 
Noon
McDaniel College 
Spring Inv. 
Noon
wmmmm
3-Point Shoot OutThe 3-point 
shoot-out will be held tonight and 
tomorrow in the UC Gym from 6:30- 
9 pm. The finals will be held at 9 pm 
on Tuesday.
MENS AND 
WOMENS 
TENNIS
SyBisbudy 
Utivedsisy 
11:00 AM
College of 
New Jersey 
10:00 AM
Important Dates
Monday, March 29  IM Softball 
starts at the Stadium Fields 
Monday, March 29 / Tuesday, March 
30  Foul Shooting and 3-Point 
Shoot Out at UC Courts 6:30 to 9 pm 
Thursday, April 8  Rosters for CoRec Kickball and Ultimate Frisbee 
due by 4:30 pm in the IM Office 
Monday, April 19  Fencing 
Tournament in Thistle Hall 6-9 pm
Euchre, Individual Table Tennis, and 
Individual Call Pool  Schedules are 
available in the IM Office. Please 
play all games as scheduled and 
report scores to the IM Office.
All Sports (through 3 on 3 
Basketball)
Mens: 1. Beta 4691 2.PKA2325 3, 
KDR 2150 4. SPIRIT 1658 5. Theta 
Xi 1416
Women: 1. Fresh Meat 3133, 2. 
Tartan Hoopers 2950 3. Pioneers 
833 4. Kappa 617 5. Brutal Ruckus
533
Bdi3ges LewisAAds 13isld
3 on 3 Basketball  The 3 on 3 bas
ketball tournament was held last 
week on the UC Courts. The champi
ons were Brian McKinney All Stars 
SPIRIT (majors), Dragons (intermeGet the best access to 
all of your favorite 
Tartans sports.^Beforelast weekend,theonty 
thing hed ever burned was a CO.
Atitiouijh fira iigtic.m <fo everything they .. oar> to pre-.-ent tsums, more Stan m miifkvo frurn injuries oocvr in Next**
America yar. Most could Ixs | preveftttxt. To team more aixjut our rlKK t "Don't Gei Buroed' campaign, &ott<va Bp&|. visit WV/W.iAf: F Bt-KH t . g&M&toK
Write for The Tartan! 
Stop by UC 314.
Need to catch up or get ahead on credits? Want to lighten your spring and fail
course loads? Desire to graduate on time or sooner?
-C .'f:  :Whatever your reason, enrolling in a summer course at The Johns Hopkins 
University has many benefits:
' ' ' ' ' I Learn from experienced faculty at a world-renowned research university.
 Select from 90 courses in over 30 disciplines.
 Enjoy the many amenities and resources that Hopkins has to offer.
Log onto www.jhu.edu/summer to request your summer schedule or to ' j 
download an application.
June 1 thru July
410
classes
Saturday morning classes
Outstanding faculty
Vibrant academic atmosphere
Off-Campus classes at: 
-Brookdale Community College: 
Lincroft Freehold Colonial 
Campus on Rt.9 
-Rutgers University Northwest 
Executive Training Facility,
Mt. Arlington
EligdWnlg AetW,rhid aWi- at nwa-bidtaam dpdtnmiWn re,nir ,Woledi dW iqe,ppid k,nohiW, 
AleAAg l,WiWr, TV, VNR, odbli mav,ir, Atii laodl phaWi ritv,oi, dWd tiritvid pdtk,Wg. 
NaWviW,iWnlg laodnid dn 5405 F,Anh AviWei, Shddgr,di. Twa blaokr Atam WdlWen Sntiinr 
145 Adrh,aWdbli rhapr dWd 12 dil,o,aer tirndetdWnr. OWi m,li na NRU/P,nn/Harp,ndlr.
DAILY, WEEKLY, MONTHLY RATES
FREE HIGH-SPEED INTERNET ACCESS*
5405 Fifth Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15232(412) 441 -4444
http://www.shadysideinn.com
^Internet access avaialable in most two-bedroom and Mansion Suites
For a Summer Session catalog, including 
registration form, visit us at 
summersession.rutgers.edu 
or call 732-932-7565.
Outside the 732 area code call 
I -800-H I-RUTGERS
THE STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW JERSEY
nH1 nARnAN  MARCH 29, 2004 AiB

---------------------------------------------------

Sports
29 March 2004THE TARTANPage lum
Belowich leads swim team to victory, garners award
by Colin Holloway
Stdffwriter
Coming off a record season for 
both individuals, and the team, the 
CMU men sent 10 swimmers to the 
national tournament in St. Louis on 
the 18th and 19th of March, and 
came home with a record-breaking 
third-place finish behind perennial 
powerhouse Kenyon, who took home 
their 25th consecutive Division III 
National Title, and UAA rival Emory.
Leading the way in the drive to 
CMUs best finish ever was senior 
and UAA Swimmer of the Year, Brian 
McCarthy, who not only finished first 
in the 400 IM, but set a national 
record by doing so in 3:53.99, en 
route to earning six All-American 
accolades.
It felt incredible, said McCarthy 
of his national time, It was a great 
way to end my career as a CMU 
swimmer.
Joining McCarthy on the champi
ons pedestal was junior standout 
Chris Pearson, who touched first in 
the 200 freestyle with a school 
record time of 1:37.70 and took 
hoine seven All-American notations. 
Swimming strong with CMUs lead
ing duo was senior Brian Jucha, who 
also took home seven All-American 
honors for his work on three AllAmerican relays with McCarthy and 
Pearson, including second places fin
ishes in both the 200 Medley and 
400 Freestyle, and a fifth place finish 
in the 400 Medley.
As has been the teams pattern
throughout the season, however, it 
wasnt just the individual stars that 
contributed to their final placement. 
Sophomore Brian Hunter was the 
fourth man on the 200 Medley team, 
and senior Brian Belowich helped 
the 400 Medley team.
Sophomore Evan Powell, Pearson, 
McCarthy and Jucha swam the 400 
Freestyle, and Powell, McCarthy and 
Jucha swam with grad student Derek 
Underwood for a fifth place in the 
200 Freestyle. Senior Steve Clifford 
and junior Kevin Paavola joined 
Hunter and Pearson in the 5th place 
800 Freestyle relay. All of these fin
ishes earned All-American honors 
for the participants, and gave the 
team critical points in the final place
ment.
Also scoring points was first-year, 
and future leader of CMU swimming 
according to his coach, David 
Krzeminski who had a good showing 
in his first national tournament. Of 
the ten swimmers the team sent to 
St. Louis, every single one of them 
scored on the national stage.
The team was led, however, not 
only by performance in the pool, but 
on the sidelines as well. In his 9th 
year as head coach of CMU Varsity 
Swimming, David Belowich was 
named the 2004 Division III Coach of 
the Year by his peers as a result of 
CMUs accomplishments this season, 
and their national finish.
The year itself was great; the 
crowning achievement was the job 
everyone did at nationals. The guys 
were the best theyve been all season 
long, said coach Belowich.
Belowich enjoyed his best season 
as CMUs head coach this year, 
watching his senior leaders, includ
ing his son and co-captain Brian 
Belowich, win meet after meet on 
the road to an incredible finale. With 
both father and son assuming leader
ship roles at the meet as coach and 
captain, the pair ended four years of 
working together in the pool with 
what one would imagine to be a very 
gratifying finish.
Coach Belowich, who had seen 
success before when he coached the 
Pitt womens team to Big East titles 
before coming to CMU, called the 
Coach of the Year Award a tribute to 
the teams dedication, hard-work, 
and deserving success on the nation
al level.
Im very honored, and very hum
bled as the National Coach of the 
Year. When it is your peers who give 
you the award, it is very humbling, 
he said about the accomplishment.
Belowich has taken a group of tal
ented swimmers, and brought them 
together as a team, encouraging 
them to not only join together in the 
water, but outside of swimming as 
well.
He has preached success in athlet
ics and academics, as both the mens 
and womens squads have been 
Academic All-American teams for 
the last 13 semesters, a difficult feat 
at Carnegie Mellon University.
With last weekends pinnacle 
achievement of his CMU tenure, 
Belowich saw the results of the work 
both he and his swimmers have put 
in, not only this season, but over the
Cludsesy lf CMU Met's Swir neyr
CMU mens swim coach Dr. David Belowich was named NCAA Coach of the Year.
past four years of successful swim
ming.
While athletics may never see the 
same passion as academics from 
CMU students, the achievements of
University rowing club 
gears up for a new season
Cludsesy lf Utivedsisy Rlwitg CBub
The University Rowing Club hits the water to practice. The teams have been 
training all winter, and attended their first regatta this past weekend.
by Travis Brier
Junior Staffwriter
Many students from Carnegie 
Mellon took off to glamorous vaca
tion spots over spring break to kick 
back and relax; the University 
Rowing Club stormed Aiken, South 
Carolina to bring its spring training 
to a close and prepare for the com
petitions awaiting them back at 
school.
The crew team began spring 
training immediately following win
ter break. Led by head coach Donald 
Webber-Plank, novice coach Lee 
Kulinna, and assistant varsity coach 
Benjamin Althof, the team did land 
training during the week and went 
to the Allegheny River on the week
ends.
Land training took place at Skibo 
Gymnasium where the entire team 
used erg machines to train for row
ing on the water. The erg machines 
keep track of time and distance trav
eled; without them, land training 
would be near impossible. On the 
weekends, the team would take to 
the river and train on its fleet of 
Kaschper Racing Shells.
There is a general feeling that we 
dont do it recreationally, said firstyear Erika Shelver. Technically 
[rowing] is a club sport, but we def
initely dont compete like one.
After training all winter, the 
teams hard work paid off when 
members ventured onto the water at 
their first competition, the Murphy 
Cup Regatta, this past weekend.
The day began a little overcast, 
but by the afternoon there were a 
few rays of sun hitting the rowers; 
the water stayed flat the entire day. 
The mens team was led by junior 
Jared Deible and the womens team 
was led by junior Stephanie Busi.
The team did a fantastic job at its 
first race of the season; it was many 
of the novice rowers first race ever. 
In the mens pair, a sculling compe
titiontwo rowers each with a pair 
of oars, brought home the gold with 
a 7:28.30. The two rowers who com
peted in the race were junior stroke 
Gary Feigenbaum and senior Paul
Harvin.
The Mens Varsity Lightweight 
8+, an eight-man team with each 
rower weighing less than 145 
pounds, pulled through in second 
with a time of 6:32.44, losing only 
to St. Joes, the Dad Vail finalist 
from last year.
The Womens Varsity Lightweight 
Four, a lightweight four-woman 
team, came in a close third at 
7:50.62 (only 0.55 seconds behind 
second). The Womens Varsity 8+ 
received fourth, coming in at 
7:20.73.
The Mens Novice 4+ pulled 
through with a great 8:07.57 in their 
heat and the Womens Novice 8+ 
rowed a 7:50.80. The Mens Varsity 
8+ rowed a 6:41.88 and the Mens 
Varsity 4+ rowed 7:05.16, beating 
both Duquesne and the University of 
Pittsburgh.
Dreible was enthusiastic about 
the teams performance. Weve got
ten more competitive since I start
ed.... Its really a good experience to 
lead such a dedicated team.
Plank said, I am very pleased to 
see our strong efforts over winter 
conditioning and spring training 
resulting in strong race perfor
mances. The team performed well 
for their first race of the season, and 
for some of the novice rowers, their 
first race ever.... All enjoyed a great 
day of racing.
Not only did this regatta give the 
team a good idea of how well their 
training had paid off, but it also let 
the rowers get a look at the course 
that will be used in the National 
Championship in six weeks.
We went there with the goal not 
to win, but to get nice experience, 
said Shelver.
There are four races left in the 
remainder of the season: the 
University Athletic Association 
Regatta on April 3 in Indianapolis, 
the Governors Cup Regatta on April
24 in Charleston, WV, the 
MidAtlantic Sprints on May 2 in 
Fairfax, VA, and the Dads Vail 
Regatta on May 7 in Philadelphia.
For further information and 
updates on the crew team, visit 
www. tartancrew. org.
Sticks Up!
Rana ndlBBrytAuglsl 13isld
As spring weather grows nicer by the day, new sports begin to show up in Gesling Stadium, including this lacrosse 
game.
Competition looking up in NL Central
Time to shift gears, baseball fans. 
Away from talk of steroids and the 
Yankees and on to a brighter subject: 
the NL Central race. With the 
Atlanta Braves losing most of their 
power and the NL West looking 
weaker than last year, the best teams 
in this league could be located in the 
heated central division.
Since the Pirates, Reds, and 
Brewers have as much chance of 
winning this division as I and eight 
of my friends do, Ill skip over them 
and move on to the top teams in the 
division.
St. Louis Cardinals: Oh how I
hate this team, but this year I think I 
can learn to like them. Why? They 
cant beat either the Astros or the 
Cubs in the divisional race. Dont get 
me wrong, they are not a club to be 
overlooked, but I think this year they 
will play the role of spoiler for some
ones divisional chances as the sea
son winds down.
With a lineup including Jim 
Edmonds, Scott Rolen, Edgar 
Renteria, and the best pure hitter in 
baseball, Albert Pujols, they can be 
an intimidating team to pitch 
against. Renteria and Rolen are the 
best shortstop and third baseman in 
the NL, respectively, and could start 
the All-Star game if they perform 
like they should.
Jim Edmonds is aging, but still a 
threat. And then there is Pujols. I 
cant think of a hitter who is better at 
this point, not even A-Rod. He is 
always a threat to get on base, and 
will be an RBI machine this year. I 
wouldnt be surprised if he won the 
batting title, and had the most RBIs 
this season; he could even win the 
Triple Crown.
With this hitting, the Cards will be 
a threat to win any game they play 
or at least any game in which Matt 
Morris pitches. Unless Woody 
Williams has another stellar year, 
which I doubt, the Cards have one 
good starter in the rotation, and vir
tually no bullpen help outside of 
Isringhausen. They could win the NL 
West were they in it, but they arent, 
and theyll finish third in the 
Central.
Houston Astros: The Stros had a 
big off-season pitching signing with 
the addition of hometown buddies 
Andy Pettitte and Roger Clemens.
On the surface this looks great, 
but upon further inspection neither 
of these two are very good against 
the NL. With ERAs of 4.24 and 4.89 
against NL swingers, respectively, 
dont expect miracles from these 
aging arms. Expect Pettitte to win 
12-15 games, and Rocket even less; 
they arent pitching with the great 
hitters New York had anymore.
The real stars of this staff are Roy 
Oswalt and Wade Miller, who are 
two of the best pitchers in baseball. 
Oswalt will compete with the likes of 
Prior and Beckett for the NL Cy 
Young for years to come, and Miller 
is as solid a number two man as you 
will find.
Add to that a healthy Tim 
Redding, and the top five starters for 
this team are better than most teams' 
number one guy. The bullpen is a 
shut down operation, even with the 
loss of Billy Wagner, and runs will be 
hard to come by throughout the 
game against this club.
Offensively, they still have the 
killer Bs in Biggio, Berkman, and 
Bagwell. Those three, combined 
with All-Star Jeff Kent, third base
man Morgan Ensberg, and outfielder 
Richard Hidalgo make this lineup a
coach Belowich and his third ranked 
Division III National Mens Varsity 
Swim team is one of the highest 
accomplishments at the college this 
year, and is worthy of note.
scary proposition.
Scary, at least, on paper; Bagwell 
and Biggio are getting a little old to 
be scary, and the rest of lineup arent 
the power threats needed to carry 
the team. They also choked when it 
counted last year, giving the division 
to the Cubs. Look for a similar result; 
the pitching staff is overrated, and 
the hitters dont look as good on the 
field as they do on the lineup card.
They should take the Wild Card, 
however, and could battle the Cubs 
right down to the finish for the NL 
pennant.
Chicago Cubs: Finally, my
beloved Cubbies. Although I am a 
fan of this team, Id be the first to 
admit that last year they played 
above their potential, and they have 
sucked for years. But the days of the 
loveable losers are done, and the 
boys on the North Side are finally 
the deserving favorites in this divi
sion.
Over the off-season Jim Hendry 
addressed the key problem in the 
team: hitting. By picking up an aver
age hitting catcher in Michael 
Barrett, and an above-average hit
ting first baseman in Derrek Lee, the 
Cubs have a formidable lineup. 
Corey Patterson returns from his 
season-ending knee injury of a year 
ago, and has looked strong in the 
spring.
Aramis Ramirez has All-Star 
potential hitting at third base, and 
Sammy Sosa looks to overcome an 
off year last year where he saw 
injury and controversy diminish his 
performance.
This team can hit better than 
Houston, and is nearly at the level of 
the Cards, depending on the ability 
of Lee to fit in to Wrigley.
SportsWire
Arakawa new fig
ure skating champ
Shizuka Arakawa defeated 
Michelle Kwan in Dortmund, 
Germany on Saturday to become the 
new world figure skating champion. 
Michelle Kwan had won the title five 
times; one more would have set the 
United States record. Arakawa even 
earned a perfect six score for techni
cal achievementa very rare feat 
and won 5.8s and 5.9s for artistic 
achievement with her program set to 
the music of the opera Turandot. 
Kwan scored numerous artistry 6.0s 
for her program, Tosca. Shortly 
before Kwan took the ice, a man in ice 
skates ran out into the rink and 
donned a tutu. Baring his chest, 
which had a website URL scrawled on 
it, he had to be escorted out by secu
rity. The incident left Kwan slightly 
jarred, but she managed to skate her 
routine regardless.
Source: The Associated Press
Williams contin
ues winning streak
On Sunday, Serena Williams beat 
Elena Likhovtseva 6-1, 4-6, 6-3 at 
the NASDAQ-100 Open. The match 
was Williams second since coming 
back from an eight-month break due 
to knee injury. It was also her second 
victory since her time off. Likhovtseva 
had defeated Wiliams in the past, at 
the Australian Open four years ago, 
but this time she let Serenas confi
dence get to her. She told the 
Associated Press, When you think 
that you can win, then sometimes it 
overwhelms you, you know? While 
Likhovtseva was worried about losing 
to Williams, one of Williams greatest 
concerns was breaking a nail. On a 
dive she landed hard on the concrete, 
remaining unscathed except for the 
destruction of her recent manicure.
Source: The Associated Press
New competition 
in rugby tourney
The standings race for the Super 12 
Rugby championships is heating up 
with both Canterbury and Waikato 
scoring wins this weekend. 
Canterbury, the reigning champions, 
defeated the Otago Highlanders 
46-29. Likewise, the Waikato Chiefs 
beat New South Wales in a 32-17 vic
toryan important game, since the 
NSW Waratahs had been far ahead 
earlier in the tournament. Even with 
the loss, the captain of the Waratahs 
hadnt given up hope. The Wellington 
Hurricanes ended their match with 
the Auckland Blues in a 26-all draw.
Source: The Associated Press
Duke advances to 
the Final Four
Duke Universitys mens basketball 
team beat Xavier on Sunday to secure 
a spot in the NCAA Final Four. The 
game was tied at 56 until 2:55 left in 
the second half, when J.J. Redick 
scored a three-pointer to put Duke on 
top for the remainder of the game. 
The teams competed fiercely, with 
the lead switching from team to team 
seven times in the first halfbut that 
lead was never more than five points. 
Luol Deng was named most valuable 
player of the regionals, scoring 19 
points against Xavier. This was Dukes 
first year making the Final Four in 
three seasons. The only top seed 
reaching the last leg of the tourna
ment, Duke will play the University of 
Connecticut Huskies on Saturday in 
their fourteenth Final Four appear
ance.
Source: The Associated Press
Pleasantly Perfect 
wins big money
Pleasantly Perfect won the Dubai 
World Cup on Saturday, netting $6 
million in prize money. The Dubai 
World Cup is the worlds highest-pay
ing horse race, and this year saw his
tory repeat itself. Medaglia dOro 
placed second to Perfect; in Octobers 
Breeders Cup Classic, Pleasantly 
Perfect beat Medaglia to a $4 million 
payoff in Americas highest payoff 
race.
Source: The Associated Press
See BAS1BALL, pyge ABB
Compiled by 
Evan Sundwick

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

Corrections:
In the Greek Sing article last week 
the winners of the doubles category 
were incorrectly labeled as Sigma 
Alpha Epsilon and Kappa Kappa 
Gamma. The winners were actually 
Sigma Phi Epsilon and Kappa Kappa 
Gamma.
STAFF
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
MANAGING EDITOR 
PILLBOX CO-EDITORS 
COMICS EDITOR 
PHOTO EDITOR 
ART EDITOR 
COPY MANAGER 
PRODUCTION MANAGER
Alex Meseguer 
Jim Puls
Michelle M. Bova 
Eli Pousson 
J.T. Trollman 
Bridget Lewis 
James Auwaerter 
Franklin Williams
Cover by Laura Semesky.
The Tartan
Box 1017
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15289-1017
www.thetartan.org
CONTENTS.
Rana ndlBBrytAKtlsl s3isld
So many yums, so little time: ngis ylutg ysset3ee lf ngyi Niggs 
2004 sudveys sge ryty cglices lf gll3 fll3 sl eysa
gm oryo1 5uee
Ballroom dance competition.
0pHRbyW .upHRbyW
Rocking out for the Congo.
,vbEoue ,ubyRNW
Undergrads and grads win big.
8. KGB
A look into the silly" club.
1Go dERyHup -uN sEep sRbyEAue
Class organizes fest program.
11 ? orn rs tudwp
PBS film discusses violence.
12a ary ,Ryue xNEeeR
Nothing more than just okay.
wgh nrpEob
18- COMICKAZE
Fictional superhero battles.
w97 nueRHmuN
ulpuByd cByss 
puss ssu3etss sl 
wldk ldgytizitg 
y fiBr fessa , 
pyge 10
piBBblxa me 9o8, mLLl

---------------------------------------------------

Cross-campus collaboration
Celebrities and commericalism make for creative art
For a long time, John Kim, a senior in art, had 
been excited and anxious to present his collec
tion of artwork to the college campus and the 
art-appreciating community. His moment to 
shine began at 7 pm last Friday. Kim presented 
several of the paintings, which span the latter 
three years of his college life, at The Frame, 
which is located at the corner of Forbes Avenue 
and Margaret Morrison Street in Oakland.
While The Frame usually hosts exhibits prima
rily for CMU students, Kim took the unique 
opportunity to collaborate with Gina Lee, a close 
friend who is a studio arts major and a senior at 
University of Pittsburgh. Both Kim and Lee knew 
each other through Agape Life Church and had 
planned out this event for about a month.
Kim had several goals in mind with his art
work. The issues I talked about initially were 
commercialism, celebrity, and mass produc
tion, said Kim, ... but now with my most recent 
paintings, I tried to work with bright colors and 
different types of paint.
Lee has had a passion for painting ever since 
she was four years old.
I have an interest in capturing the moment in 
a painting, like the artist Renoir, said Lee. Lee 
has been working on her paintings throughout 
her senior year. Lee studied figures from digital 
photographs and magazines in order to repro
duce them on canvas with paint.
Together, both artists produced about 25 
paintings. Both artists used acrylic and oil paint 
to make their paintings.The majority of the 
paintings were portraits, including a couple of 
portraits of celebrities such as Reese 
Witherspoon.
Kim also used a small room to design a satiri
cal shrine to Christina Aguilera. The shrine 
consisted of two paintings, candles, a block of 
wood with transparent incisions that resemble a 
face, and a small photograph frame with a col
lage of the famous pop star.
I was poking fun at how people [worship] 
celebrities and idols, said Kim. It is a fake 
shrine. Its not supposed to be taken seriously.
Until 10 pm Friday, it was estimated that at 
least 25 people were viewing the gallery at any 
one time and as many as 60 different people, 
mostly college students, visited the exhibit 
before the night ended. Furthermore, on open
ing day, the guests were accompanied by light 
rock music, played by guitarists Dan Ra, a senior 
at Pitt, and Grant Stanley, a sophomore at Pitt.
Several students were impressed with the 
images of people in various poses.
I love the play on colors, said Allison Oguh, a 
first-year in chemical engineering.
Three of the paintings were near exact replicas 
of each other, except the colors used were differ
ent. Both painters showed how changing only 
the color can lead to different interpretations of 
art and can arouse different emotions from 
viewers.
Though various ideas seemed to inspire the 
different portraits, the main themes that tied a 
majority of the paintings together were realism, 
the desire to contribute to commentary on pop 
culture and the obsession with physical beauty.
lpd2 tp55pmnh 
eiUCCodpird
The artwork at this gallery will be on display each 
day until Tuesday from noon until 5 pm. To con
tact John Kim, e-mail to 
fashionpolice@cmu.edu.
Reff CuBBedsACltsdibusitg 13isld
Boi," a painting by John Kim, uses expressive brushstrokes to create the 
serious face of a young man.
CARNEGIE ALAAANAC
JO YEARS AGO
Mydcg 23, 1954
nge ClutciB lf Fdysedtisy udesi3etss cltsitue3 3iscussilt lt 
y tew pByt fld rlde ldgytize3 dusgitga nge cltsdlvedsiyB pByt, 
3esigte3 sl eBirityse clrpesisilt besweet fdysedtisies, pde
vetse3 fdysedtisies fdlr glB3itg decduisrets evetss exceps 
3uditg cedsyit gluds yt3 Birise3 yBB decduisrets ycsivisies sl 
sge Skibl ssu3ets cetseda
25 YEARS AGO
Mydcg 20, 1979
A plByesgyBete sydp use3 sl clved tewBy Byi3 bdick it lte lf sge 
Mydgydes Mlddislt Apydsrets buiB3itgs sget ut3ed cltssducsilt 
cyuggs fide wget is wys bBlwt ltsl sge buiB3itgs geysedsa nge 
exsets lf sge fide wys Birise3 sl sge bdick yt3 cltssducsilt equip
rets, yt3 pgysicyB pByts pedsltteB cByire3 sgys is wluB3 tls 
yffecs sge cltssducsilt scge3uBea
HO YEARS AGO
Mydcg 21, 1994
1dik ABsrytt, y 3lcsldyB ssu3ets, wys bdluggs beflde UDC lt 
cgydges lf BibeB it y bblyd3 ygyitss y rerbed lf Ssu3ets 
Setysea ngede wede lved 60 itssytces lf ABsrytt fBll3itg sge 
Setyse bblyd3 wisg y3 glriter yssycks ygyitss yt uttyre3 
rerbed lf sge bl3ya SevedyB gdlups wede wlddie3 sgys feyd lf 
pdlsecusilt wluB3 cudb use lf bblyd3s ys pubBic fldursa
5 YEARS AGO
ApdiB 5, 1999
nge Utivedsisy yttlutce3 sgys is gy3 fityBize3 y 3eyB fld y $1a4 
riBBlt rytsilt fld sge Utivedsisys pdesi3etsa Llcyse3 it SquiddeB 
HiBB, sge 9000-squyde-flls rytsilt wys pudcgyse3 sl ycs ys yt 
y33isiltyB spyce fld fut3dyisitg ycsivisiesa nge syBe wys sget sge 
Bydgess desi3etsiyB deyB essyse syBe it uisssbudgg gissldya
1 YEAR AGO
ApdiB 7, 2003
nge Utivedsisy ssydse3 exyrititg lpsilts fld y pBusAritus gdy3
itg sysser fld fityB gdy3es, yBseditg glw ryty quyBisy plitss 3if
fedets fityB gdy3es yde wldsga It y33isilt, sgey expBlde3 rykitg 
pBuses yt3 rituses pedrytets y33isilts sl ri3sedr gdy3esa 
Ssu3etss cltsitue3 sl expdess 3isyppdlvyB lf usitg sge quyBi
fieds lt fityB gdy3es becyuse is wluB3 itgedetsBy Blwed QuAsa
RAUP -drrmfrd5h sadTP ,Apiad
piBBblxa 29 Mydcg 2004.

---------------------------------------------------

Scotch Ball returns
Schools and studios from various areas join to compete in ballroom dance
The music is floating out of the ballroom and into 
the University Center, but its not the typical sound of 
a choir practicing behind closed doors. The doors are 
instead wide open, with streamers flanking each side, 
but one might be a bit confused by what is revealed 
inside. If one takes a peek one might see a few small 
children dancing with professional-looking steps in 
the middle of the floor. If they were not so dressed up 
or so serious, one might think they were simply play
ing. Stepping inside reveals not only children, but 
teenagers and adults, all dressed in similar fashion  
the women in flexible materials like nylon and spandex, the men almost invariably in black suits and vests 
or open-chested shirts. It becomes fairly obvious  
even if one happens to miss the sign outside the door
 that the majority of the audience is here to dance. 
As it turns out, the women in heavy makeup and 
sequined eyelashes and the men in ... heels are not 
just dancing, but competing in Scotch Ball, an event 
sponsored by the Carnegie Mellon Ballroom Dance 
Club (CMUBDC).
Previously in Carnegie Mellon history, the Ballroom 
Dance Club was the largest club on campus, according 
to one former president and still member, Andrew 
Pueschel, who is a staff member as well as a masters 
student at Carnegie Mellon. He was not the only 
member who mentioned this popularity, which came 
about because of the swing craze around 1998. 
Currently, the group has about 100 CMU-affilliated 
members.
Membership, however, is not limited to CMU stu
dents; CMUBDC allows for students at local schools as 
well as CMU alumni, staff, and even non-affiliated 
parties to join, according to the clubs website. Aurora 
Zinck, a sophomore in materials science and engi
neering, is president of CMUBDC. She described how 
colleges like Duquesne and the University of 
Pittsburgh either have a much smaller organization or 
none at all, and students will come to join the CMUB
DC because of its larger scale.
The members, from different schools and age 
groups, have found the experience rewarding. Tom 
Gilbert, the competition team captain, had no previ
ous experience in ballroom dance when he joined as a 
first-year.
I came for one reason and stayed for another, said 
Gilbert, who is now finishing his education as a grad
uate student at the University of Pittsburgh. He 
described how his initial interest had been in a young 
lady who invited him to come, but that he stayed 
because he enjoyed it. Ten years ago Carnegie Mellon 
was a place with not a lot of school spirit, according 
to Gilbert. [It was] hard to meet people in a way that 
wasnt drinking.
According to Zinck there is quite a large number of
people who come back after either taking a break or 
leaving college.
The Scotch Ball, returning for the first time in three 
years, was certainly a big event for the CMUBDC, as 
well as one that featured several still-members who 
are no longer attend Carnegie Mellon or have com
pleted their undergraduate work. It was a two-day 
event, but the competition was limited solely to the 
second day; the first was dedicated to social events.
The competition featured categories in American 
Rhythm, American Smooth, International Standard, 
and International Latin dance. To someone unfamiliar 
with ballroom dancing these categories can seem 
meaningless, but the moves are recognizable. In addi
tion to these categories, there is the additional com
plication of labeling different types as either 
Syllabus or Open. The categories, as described by 
Gilbert, are almost self-explanatory. Syllabus restricts 
dancers to a set of perhaps 20 moves and open allows 
them to do as they please as long as it matches the 
style.
Along with a variety of categories was a large range 
of participants. Scotch Ball was not restricted to just 
CMUBDC, but rather invited various studios and col
leges to attend. There were participants at last nights 
competitions from Case Western Reserve University, 
Ohio State University, and many others. The children, 
however, were solely from the Art and Style Dance 
Studio, a nearby studio that had many respresentatives at the event.
Were trying to outreach to the community, so we 
invited the kids, said Zinck of their involvement. Art 
and Style had quite a few participants in Scotch Ball, 
not just to children.
Zinck described organizing an event like Scotch Ball 
as merely going around to other competitions, d-listing members and just getting the word out. The event, 
as well as the club, encourages social interaction, 
according to Zinck. People from out of state stay over 
the weekend with student members or others from 
around the Pittsburgh area, and the Friday night 
events are all orchestrated to get to know other com
petitors.
This social aspect of the club and the competition 
was a huge theme for members. Jack Liu, a sopho
more in mathematical sciences and secretary of the 
club, described how you can make the club what you 
want, dedicating time for the social aspect, or treating 
it as a sport. Liu, like Gilbert, started the club as a firstyear. Liu also mentioned the competitions inclusion 
of fun dances and social dances as icebreakers where 
people of different colleges can meet and greet.
The competition was serious, however, featuring
piBBblxa me 9o8, mLLs
Wetyyl HlAuglsl Ssyff
Tom Gilbert and partner Susan Daly competing at International Standard dance.
dancers in several different levels of advancement. 
The childrens categories were labeled according to 
age, but the adult categories are labeled according to 
skill level, using the qualifiers newcomer, bronze, sil
ver, and gold.
The dancers were put through what Zinck described 
as a rather challenging repertoire of up to four dances 
in a row. Though the emcee did not play the entire 
song, the dancers had to be able to switch between 
different styles of dance, which can be extremely fastpaced. Zinck continued to emphasize how much time 
and money it takes to reach these levels of prowess.
These people have jobs or go to school, she said, 
noting how much devotion it would require to reach 
the professional level.
Despite the devotion of time, the members continue 
to laud the group as a great social outlet, not just 
among CMU students, but also at competitions where 
one can meet people from other areas of the country. 
Kim Judd, the instructor for the CMUBDC, noted that 
at CMU, members join because they actually want to 
dance  theres not the grade or the fact that they 
paid [money], differentiating between people who 
take dance as a class or pay large sums for lessons and 
people who join the club. Though the club has dues, 
the amounts ar a pittance compared to the price for 
professional lessons.
The Scotch Ball event embraced different schools, 
different age groups, and different levels of skill, mak
ing for a wide range of participants that was obvious 
just from looking around the audience. After its threeyear absence, Scotch Ball returned to the delight of 
various members and non-members who came to 
compete.
Bpwyr''r *agUh 
cp''fa3 ,Apiad

---------------------------------------------------

Jamming for good cause
Amnesty iamnesty joins talents from Pitt and CMU to rock for the Congo
Rana ndlBBrytAuglsl 13isld
Up on one arm, Eugene Yee, a sophomore in engineering,shows his prowess for breakdancing as he elevates three of his four appendages.
College is often the best time to explore the local 
music scene. The Graduate School of Public Health 
auditorium at the University of Pittsburgh, located at 
the corner of Fifth and DeSoto, hosted Jamnesty, a 
benefit concert organized primarily by Pitts Amnesty 
International chapter, last Friday. The concert was set 
up to raise awareness  and money  to combat the 
sustained violence in the Democratic Republic of 
Congo, and it featured four local student bands and a 
unique performance by Open Circle, a group of 
Pittsburgh-area student breakdancers.
The Defenestrators were the first to hit the stage, 
and they hit it hard. A large portion of the audience in 
the admittedly small venue seemed to be rabid 
Defenestrators fans, because most of the middle sec
tion cheered wildly before and after every song. The 
guitarist took time to crack jokes between songs, even 
going so far as to make fun of the concerts master of 
ceremonies; the band as a whole had a very satisfying 
stage presence.
The vocalist/keyboardist demonstrated huge talent 
in both his roles, with a voice reminiscent of Josh 
Homme of Queens of the Stone Age. The keyboarding 
will inevitably remind many listeners of the Doors, 
though the overall sound of the Defenestrators is 
more akin to recent acts. The bands guitarist/bassist, 
who seemed to fulfill more of a bassist role for much 
of their set, was also apparendy the writer of many of 
their original songs. Their act reached a crescendo 
when the guitarist introduced their song Spanish 
McDonalds  a song he had written after sleeping in 
a McDonalds in Spain at four oclock in the morning. 
According to the band it was the first time they had 
played it in public and it was a huge hit with the 
crowd; the band was driven into a frenzy with fastpaced (if somewhat nonsensical) lyrics and powerful 
guitar riffs. The drummer contributed steadily and 
skillfully, but as many drummers, never really drew 
extra attention barring one or two drum solos.
Next to play was Carnegie Mellon band Handface. 
Another threesome, Handface was a big change from 
the Defenestrators. They played to a nearly empty 
house, as many people had only come to see the first 
band. Nevertheless, Handface played on. They were a 
peculiar sight, though that cannot really be avoided 
considering one of your main instruments is a Game 
Boy. Jonathan Brodsky played his Game Boy with fer
vor, and on one song even lent a few barely audible 
vocals, which ended up being drowned out by Yann 
Seznecs roaring guitar and Alberto Almarzas frenet
ic drumming.
By the second half of Handfaces set, the crowd was 
finally getting into the music, with several audience 
members dancing in the aisles. Handfaces last song 
was accompanied by the master of ceremonies and 
others dancing wildly in front of the stage  it was
truly a spectacle.
Open Circle served as an extended intermission for 
the show. The breakdancers rolled out a mat on stage, 
taped it down with duct tape, and began showing off 
their moves. Their set was a bit underwhelming only 
because they were simply playing their music off of a 
portable stereo  it didnt even sound like it was con
nected to the amplifiers. Nevertheless, their perform
ances were laudable, combining regular dance moves 
with breakdancing and even the robot dance. 
Several times the audience  which had grown since 
Handface took the stage  burst into applause after 
stunning flips or even a headslide, where one dancer 
got into a headstand position and managed to keep 
himself upright as he glided across the mat. The expe
rience was memorable and added a huge shot of vari
ety to the evenings proceedings.
Soulpatch began playing after a long break to set up 
and calibrate their equipment. They, like the 
Defenestrators, drew a large crowd of fans who knew 
most of their songs by heart. Soulpatch also had the 
distinction of being the largest band playing at the 
concert. The quintet featured a great mix of standard 
alternative rock elements, plus the added bonus of a 
female vocalist. Quinn McIntosh offered her talents 
and sang as back-up to Dustin Stiver, who also played 
an amplified acoustic guitar. Tim Matthews con
tributed his electric guitar to the mix, with Chad 
Eckert on bass and Mike Samella on drums. The band
had a very mature sound  the members have been 
working together for more than three years. The 
acoustics of the auditorium were not the best for a 
band with such varying sound as theirs, but the fans 
were ecstatic to hear Soulpatch play anyway.
The last band to play was Despite Best Intentions, a 
political hard-rock band. Their sound was completely 
different from the rest of the bands at Jamnesty; 
thrashing guitars and drums combined with shouted 
and growled lyrics to produce a sound with limited 
appeal. Not surprisingly, the audience for Despite Best 
Intentions included many people who only came to 
see them play, so the bands music was still enjoyed. 
The guitarists ascended above everything else, and it 
was fairly easy to appreciate their technical prowess. 
However, their lyrics were less than profound. The 
chorus to one song, Bullets Hurt, was simply vocal
ist Adam Joad shouting the phrase Bullets hurt; 
corpses stink! over and over again.
The master of ceremonies took time between each 
act to briefly discuss the problems in the Democratic 
Republic of Congo and how Amnesty International 
was trying to help. However, it was easy to lose the 
political backdrop of the concert as each capable band 
took the stage and simply enjoy the music at hand.
,gUm eTmAopw2h 
e/adin ,Apiad
200w.th me 9o8, mLLsh

---------------------------------------------------

Student classical music competition
Orchestra pieces prove lucrative for everyone involved
Wednesday night was filled with anticipation, as 
anxious parents, relatives, friends, and other fans 
talked amongst themselves waiting for the competi
tion to begin. The Carnegie Mellon Philharmonic 
tuned instruments in the background as the announc
er introduced the annual Student Composers Concert, 
explaining that the competition would be split into 
two parts this year: an undergraduate and a graduate 
section, with a winner for each part. The winners 
were awarded a scholarship of $1000 each, funded in 
part by the Harry G. Archer Memorial Fund.
The competition isnt really 
a competition like an instru
mentalist competition. I 
dont think anyone really 
thinks about the competi
tion when they are writ
ing, said Paul Pinto, one 
of the composers. Id say 
that if anyone walks out of 
the concert with a good 
recording of their piece, it is just 
as valuable as any amount of 
money.
There were three judges for 
the competition: Donald
Wilkins, professor of organ;
Eduardo Alonso-Crespo, 
artist lecturer in music his
tory; and MahmoodReza Vali, associate pro
fessor of composition.
Each piece was 
very different from 1 
the others in the 
performance. The \ 
composers emotions and creativity were 
evident and their individuality shone in each piece. 
The competition was a showcase of senior composi
tion majors; each had selected a piece from their 
portfolio to perform. Under the direction and teach
ing of Leonardo Balada and Nancy Galbraith, they all 
composed a wide range of different pieces through
out their four years here at CMUs School of Music. 
Each received thunderous applause from the nearly 
full music hall and the CMU Philharmonic which 
played each piece to perfection.
The first pieces were played by the undergraduates. 
Christopher Thomas Ruths piece Die Rote Kapelle, 
German for The Red Orchestra, started off shrill 
and eerie and had elements that were electronic 
sounding. The mood was scary and suspenseful. 
Quietly dissonant then suddenly fast paced, the vol
ume built up until the piece concluded at a fortissimo 
cut-off. Ruth had intended his piece to evoke a histor
ical network of Soviet spies during the Nazi regime in 
Germany.
This piece attempts to capture some of the deter
mination, fear, and foreboding experienced in [spy] 
work, said Ruth.
The second piece was Friederich Myers The 
Unified Theory of Everything. It started off with a 
few cellos thinly humming and then high-pitched 
ringing tones from the percussion section. There was 
a continuous hum from the bass instru
ments all throughout the piece.
Myers composi
tion did not sound unified at 
all, as the instruments seemed to play 
their own melodies and rhythms, but 
one could hear the well-placed transi
tions and general theme encompass
ing the whole piece. It had a dreamlike 
feel as the instruments slowly crescendoed only to be stopped by a lone bell, 
and then returned to the sound of the 
introduction.
It was composed with simplicity in mind, begin
ning and ending in roughly the same way, employing 
quasi-minimalistic techniques, and made up of a sim
ple harmonic language, explained Myers. The piece 
was dedicated to his parents.
The third piece was No Dragons, by Blake 
Ragghianti. This piece had a very upbeat and driving 
sound. The strong piano, marimba, and glockenspiel 
along with the tambourine dominated the melodies. 
The piece was more modern and less traditional than 
the other orchestral pieces.
It sounded as if it belonged in a movie, said Paul 
Baginski, one of the audience members. Ragghianti 
had been involved with local musicians and bands 
including The Wild Geese, Crisis Car, and the Michael 
Murphy and the Shannon River Band.
The fourth piece was Two Symphonic Moods by 
senior Matthew Heap. There were indeed two distinct 
moods expressed in this piece. The first mood was 
subdued and gentle, and had the feel of a distant rum
ble. The second mood was dark and loud. The two 
moods took turns throughout the piece going from 
calm to angry to calm and ending with angry again.
The contemplative first section, marked by hum
ming by the orchestra for atmospheric color, gives 
way to a faster and more angry section, described 
Heap.
The fifth senior up was Paul Pinto and his piece 
titled 1984: Images for Orchestra. It had a dark 
mood, as one would expect from a piece reflective of 
George Orwells novel 1984. It was propelling and had 
a forward-moving feel from the driving piano to the 
rhythmic string section. It incorporated a cello solo, 
almost as a breath of air in between the intense sec
tions.
The cello solo is an escape from the whole piece, 
said Pinto. His piece was written over four days during 
Pintos trip to the Festival of Musics for Compostition
in Torroella di Montgri, Spain, this past summer.
Devin Arrington, a graduate composer, also 
attended the festival. Its not a programmatic 
work  programmatic being telling a story.
Its more a reaction to the book, said Pinto, 
that book makes you so angry ... and my piece was 
kind of a rhapsodic piece based on my thought pro
gression.
The last undergraduate piece was Phlegethon by 
Mark Fromm. There were distinct changes in tempo 
almost as if the composer did not want to bore the 
audience with a monotonic pace. It started off with 
same simple note progressions and then suddenly 
changed the melody but stayed in the same key. There 
was obvious coherence despite the different melodies 
and tempo. The piece sounded like two different
piBBblxa 29 Mydcg 2004.

---------------------------------------------------

pieces stuck together, but the listener could hear what 
links them together.
They are sort of related on what they are based on
 [which are] the ideas and harmonic language that 
I use. Its kind of a common form in music  choral 
and dance, said Fromm.
The piece is filled with contrasts of solo lines, 
orchestral tuttis, and powerful percussion, culminat
ing in a majestic sonorous statement of the theme, 
which is followed by an even faster coda of the dance 
material, described Fromm. Phlegethon is the River 
of Fire in Greek mythology, which reveals Fromms 
love for imagery from this genre.
Fromm is involved with the 6:30 Jazz Ensemble, the 
saxophone quartet, the Kiltie Band, AUO, and the 
wind ensemble at CMU.
The graduate pieces started off with Arringtons La 
Vie Dolorosa (The Way of Sorrows), which he wrote 
during the festival in Spain. Marked by loud slaps and 
snaps, it painted a picture of the torturous whip across 
Jesus Christs back. La Vie Dolorosa was based on
the path that Christ walked on his way to the cross 
before he was crucified. This piece had excellently 
placed harmonies, integration between the different 
sections, and clearly expressed emotions. It ended 
with a short harp solo.
Shortly into the work a theme is introduced in the 
bass which is contrasted with the aggressive tutti 
orchestra. The music proceeds to move restlessly 
between contemplating Christs love and identifying 
with his sufferings, said Arrington. Arrington teach
es violin, composition, and theory at the Pittsburgh 
Music Academy.
The next graduate piece was A.D. Mobleys An 
American Mosaic. It truly was a mosaic of different 
voices and melodies encompassed into one flowing 
composition. The different sounds were pieced 
together at odd times. The whole piece was sand
wiched between a shrill-sounding introduction and 
conclusion. A pseudo-European theme is offered in 
fragments ... West African and South American 
rhythms dominate the second movement, said 
Mobley.
The final piece for the graduate section was Cody J.
Wrights Temps Perdu. The piece opened with 
throaty cellos, the long notes drawn out. Mostly com
prised of tremolos and fermata tones, there was a slow 
progressive build up of tempo and volume. There were 
flitters of notes from the woodwinds while the piece 
ends with a pizzicato solo from the second violin sec
tion. Wright currently teaches composition and theo
ry at the Pittsburgh Music Academy.
After a brief discussion amongst the judges, the 
decision was announced and the winning pieces were 
replayed.
Fromm was the winner of the undergraduate sec
tion and Wright took first place in the graduate cate
gory. Fromm plans to apply his scholarship money 
toward his studies and looks forward to choosing a 
graduate school from his acceptances including 
McGill University and possibly the Manhattan School 
of Music.
0Umri cUd2h 
eiUCCodpird
Big Als Metal Shop
Upcoming acts promise to provide entertainment well into the summer
Greetings Mulleteers,
Its good to be back after my vacation, and dude, do 
we have lots to discuss....
First off, my apologies to all of our local practition
ers of the Forbidden Art of Heavy Metal for the lack of 
coverage. Circle Of Dead Children, Built Upon 
Frustration, and especially my boys in Khanate are 
sterling examples of whats next for our genre. 
Pittsburgh is a fertile breeding ground for violendy 
heavy music, and Ive been getting my hands on some 
of it.
Built Upon... puts out some Evil with a capital E 
music; imagine Hatebreed mixed with Meshuggah. 
And Khanate is definitely in the running for the 
burghs hardest working band. Whether its bringing 
together Horror and Metal fans through their common 
love of the Texas Chainsaw Massacre, or scouting out 
new venues for metal bands to play, theyre helping to 
keep our scene strong. Look for an interview very 
soon.
Speaking of local shows, the loss of Laga will defi
nitely hurt us short term, but there are some real beau
ties coming soon. Of course, the new home for inter
national acts is the Rock Club at Station Square. In the 
next few months, well see the triumphant return of 
Lacuna Coil (opening for P.O.D.), the Darkness (yeah, 
wish I had tickets too) and Tesla (May 1), coming at 
you live and armed with a brand-new album. But the
biggest show this year, and I can say this in March, will 
be on August 28.
Although I was but a wee Metallion when they were 
in their golden days, Judas Priest holds a spot in my 
heart beside other luminaries like Zeppelin, Kiss, and 
Sabbath. The dual guitar attack of Tipton and 
Downing, complemented by one Rob Halford on vox is 
something that all music fans should experience once 
before they get married and pretend to love Muzak. 
And just as with Kiss, I thought Id never have another 
chance to see the original line-up before that sad day.
Thanks to the powers that be, not only will my 
dream be realized, on that day in August, every single 
band on the Ozzfest line-up will kick my ass and yours 
too. From the Second Stage to the Main Stage, all the 
bands Ive tried to push these last few years will be 
there. From lamb of god to god forbid to Dimmu 
Borgir to Slayer to Lacuna Coil to ... excuse me, Im 
getting a little moist here.
Anyway, considering the lighter-weight nature of 
the last few Ozzfest line-ups, the co-headlining of 
Ozzy and a reunited Priest is a gift to all of us, and I 
expect to see you all there in appreciation.
Until next week, go check out the new lamb of god 
DVD, the new Probot (Dave Grohls surprisingly cool 
and dare I say reverential metal project), and anything 
else delightfully heavy.
Before I go, I would like to dedicate this weeks arti
cle to another giant in our genre, Steve Richards. Steve 
founded No Name Records, and went on to manage 
and help out bands like Slipknot and Hatebreed when 
they were still struggling to get their music out to the 
masses. Sadly, Steve passed away this month after a 
long illness, leaving behind a legacy and a large circle 
of friends and loved ones. Steve, your love for this 
music of ours is a shining example to all of us.
R'frdi 7ayrmh 
ermpad cp''fa3 eiUCC
Cludsesy lf Lycuty CliB
The leather- clad members of Lacuna Coil embrace the dark  and the metal.
piBBblxa 29 Mydcg 2004.7

---------------------------------------------------

T
Come party with the party
KGB lightens up the campus with the their crazy antics year-round
It is truly rare for a journalist to hear Do you want 
the truth, or do you want lies? at the beginning of an 
interview. But that is exactly how the interview with 
KGB president Ed Ryan started out.
According to Ryan, a junior in physics, KGB was 
formed by a bunch of bitter CIA members in 1988. 
The group had broken away from CIA (the Carnegie 
Involvement Association) to form the new student 
group.
Theyve billed [themselves] for a long time as a 
group that practices safe silliness ... and also the recre
ational use of nuclear weapons, said Tom Strong, a 
KGB alum who joined in 1989  only a year after the 
organization was formed.
Theres a social need for KGB on campus. It exists 
because it has to, said Ryan. Theres a certain per
sonality to campus that in a way demands the exis
tence of KGB. When Bill Gates visited campus last 
month, Ryan presented him with a copy of the Linux
operating system.
KGB has approximately 60 to 70 members, includ
ing alumni who still participate. They have weekly 
meetings on Mondays at 4:30 pm, in addition to a 
weekly executive committee meeting. The meetings 
loosely follow Roberts Rules of Order  a standard 
for parliamentary procedure.
Under very strict rules of order, its this bizarre 
form of chaos, said David Stern, a first-year in infor
mation systems.
There is a weekly social event, which can cover a 
range of activities: movie nights, fundraisers, dinner 
trips, and a Linear Regression Night of dodgeball 
and other outdoor games. They also have a board 
game night called Get Board, Get Carded and occa
sional parties, including a Halloween party and a 
Bitterness Party held around February 14.
Most KGB members say they do not know what their
groups name stands for, if anything. Names that have 
been proposed include Keeping Geeks Busy and 
Kidnapping Girls for Bennett. (John Bennett was a 
former KGB member.)
KGB claims to participate annually in Buggy 
Sweepstakes with a gas-powered shopping cart. In 
past years, they have produced T-shirts with slogans 
such as We could show you our buggy, but then wed 
have to kill you.
KGB offers the Underground Tour each September 
to provide students with an alternative account of 
campus history. According to Ryan, it covers the sto
ries that dont get told  everything the university 
would frown upon.
One of KGBs most well-known events is Capture the 
Flag with Stuff. The tradition began in 1994 when 
KGB ran a standard game of capture-the-flag in Wean 
and Doherty Halls, but soon afterwards enhanced the 
game with the addition of stuff.
Stuff consists of objects which endow the bearer 
with special powers in the game, and includes such 
items as the Wand of Vengeance and the Belt of 
Chastity. Each game generally has between 100 and 
150 players.
It involves a lot of running, singing, and sometimes 
hundreds of people holding hands skipping and 
singing Yankee Doodle, said Jennifer Boriss, a firstyear design student who attended the event last 
semester. KGB held this semesters Capture the Flag 
with Stuff event last Friday.
The game has definitely evolved. As time went by, 
we got more and more people. The rules have had to 
change to better accommodate more people, said 
Ryan.
Occasionally, KGB takes over a rally or protest, 
bringing signs that sometimes have peculiar mes
sages, or that are designed to mock the protest. Last 
year, KGB members showed up at a pro-troops rally on 
the Cut and nearly outnumbered the College 
Republicans, according to an article in the PostGazette. They carried signs containing messages such 
as Free Kevin Mitnick (despite the fact that the 
famous hacker had already been released from 
prison).
Events like these constantly attract new members to 
KGB. In fact, Boriss read about KGBs actions at the 
protest before coming to-CMU, and it motivated her to 
join the group.
Rana ndlBBrytAuglsl 13isld
During KGBs Capture the Flag with Stuff event people in jail hold hands in order to get close to an exit of the area or occasionally to scout out enemy territory. KGB members have also volunteered to be the
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ scary people at a haunted house sponsored by the
FEeefrMq 29 ,uNo1 2004.1 V / > _ . I. \ \ . V ,  . \ > J

---------------------------------------------------

r
Sgeddy CgytgAAds Ssyff
Make-A-Wish Foundation. According to Yanna 
Weisberg, second vice-president of KGB, one rather 
tall and formidable-looking KGB volunteer was partic
ularly good at this task.
[The organizers] said Oh, he doesnt need a mask. 
They just gave him a cloak, said Weisberg.
KGB is the largest non-funded student organization 
at CMU. We dont want funding, said Ryan. If we 
were funded, we would then be responsible to student 
government for what we do with those funds.
There is a membership fee of $10 for a semester, or 
$15 for the year. Booth is the groups largest expense, 
with remaining funds going towards food and events. 
KGBs most frequent fundraiser is held every week 
when members at the weekly meeting are asked to 
throw pennies to the front of the room. This helps to 
raise a few bucks each week.
Gregg Economou, a CMU staff member who is bet
ter known by his Andrew UserlD  Isildur  joined 
KGB in 2000, but has been around CMU since 1994. 
He has seen KGB change over the years and comments 
that there are now more females in the group, and 
that it has become less populated by hardcore com
puter science students. It now includes students from 
most of the CMU colleges, including the College of 
Humanities and Social Sciences and the College of 
Fine Arts.
To some extent, the non-CS people have been CSified by the other people, said Economou. According 
to Economou, as the composition of the group 
changed over several years prior to 2002, there was 
resistance to the younger generation of KGB.
[Some members] resented the usurpation by these 
non-CS-nerd type people, said Economou. KGB is 
now more diverse than it was ten years ago and has 
people from almost all disciplines.
Your major isnt important anymore. Its not all 
about CS, said Boriss. KGB members commonly cite 
the organizations randomness and lack of any rigid 
structure as their reason for joining the group.
Other student organizations are kinda based on 
sanity.... KGBs not like that, said Boriss. Boriss and 
other first-year students say that it is very easy to 
quickly become a part of the group.
KGB is generally defined as whatever its members 
want it to be, said Economou. The character of the 
organization changes as the people come and go.
KGB members are mum on any activities that might 
be in disagreement with University rules. KGB does
nt do things that the university would frown upon, 
said Ryan.
If there were steam tunnels, wed be the last people 
to know, said Economou.
Since 1997 KGB has intermittently produced a 
newsletter called Pravda?. However, no issues have 
been published this past year.
KGB also participates in Carnivals booth competi
tion. They built their first booth  titled Land the 
Plane in Red Square  in 1989, and won the chair
mans choice award. For the 1990 booth, according to 
Strong, they tried to think of the most absurd thing to 
put in a booth. At the time, they decided it would be 
drywall.
We figured nobody would be crazy enough to do it 
so we did it, said Strong. The booth, named Topple 
the Czar, sported dry walls and hardwood floors, and 
took first place in the independent organizations 
competition.
KGB has a number of officer positions: president, 
first vice-president, second vice-president, recording 
secretary, corresponding secretary, treasurer, and ser
geant-at-arms. Any KGB member is permitted to run 
for elections, after receiving a nomination.
The president is in charge of running meetings and 
giving the organization its direction (or lack of direc
tion, if he so chooses). The first vice-president inter
acts with new members, and, according to Ryan, takes 
over should the president die or explode. The sec
ond vice-president is in charge of organizing events.
The recording secretary keeps minutes at the meet
ings, and the corresponding secretary communicates
Rana ndlBBrytAuglsl 13isld
Players half-heartedly guard the crossover point between Doherty and Wean.
with alumni and oversees the publication of the 
Pravda? newsletter. The treasurer manages funds, 
and the sergeant-at-arms manages equipment and 
supplies.
According to Strong, KGB once took over part of 
Student Senate. KGB members ran for election and 
succeeded in making up almost half of the executive 
committee. Some of the members had rather unusual 
platforms. According to Strong, Jay Laefer won 
Student Body Treasurer with the campaign slogan 
bread and circuses.
Regarding the future of KGB, Economou said, I see 
KGB doing more visible stuff. Make people more than 
a little confused.
KGB is hard to define, in part because it is a group 
that doesnt want to be classified under any confining 
definition. But whether KGB is confusing, eccentric, 
or just plain fun, it is clear that it is a unique part of 
campus that sets it apart from any other group.
0aym Ugpmh 
7amidpfTipm5I ,Apiad
Editors Note: Ed Ryan is a member of The Tartans 
comics staff.
piBBblxa me 9o8, mLLsh

---------------------------------------------------

film
Vietnam War Film Festival
Class brings students together to organize campus-wide yearly event
Ive really enjoyed the experience so far. Its nice to 
have a break from regular class work, and I think the 
committee work has been good for everyone. A lot of 
projects you do in college dont require a whole lot of 
cooperation with your peers, but when youre doing 
something as big as a film festival, everyone has to be 
working together.
The film class chose a wide variety of films that 
showed multiple points of view on the conflict. Many 
of the films are considered classics today, such as 
Stanley Kubricks Full Metal Jacket, Oliver Stones 
Platoon, and Francis Ford Coppolas Apocalypse Now.
The students also chose films such as Born on the " 
Fourth of July, Good Morning Vietnam, We Were 
Soldiers, The Quiet American, and Heaven and Earth, a 
film based on the true experiences of Le Ly Hyslip, a 
Vietnamese woman who served as a spy in the Viet 
Cong before marrying an American serviceman.
There will also be several documentaries including 
We Regret to Inform, which tells the story of Vietnams 
widows, The Bloods of Nam, a film that interviews 
African-American veterans, and Dear America: Letters 
Home from Vietnam.
In addition to the film screenings, Hyslip and 
Barbara Sonneborn, the director of We Regret to 
Inform, will be present on April 1 and 2 for interviews. 
There will also be a speaker panel of local Vietnam 
veterans, a color guard in honor of those who died in 
the conflict, and a special presentation courtesy of the 
Vietnamese Embassy.
piBBblxa 29 Mydcg 2004.
Carnegie Mellons annual film festival weekend 
always attempts to focus on film genres and themes 
that are unique and unusual, films that college stu
dents normally are hot exposed to. The film festival is 
also an opportunity for students to get involved: the 
weekend is organized completely by a film festival 
class which allows students to meet influential film
makers and learn more about what they are showing.
This years festival, Tour of Duty, takes place from 
April 1 to April 4. It revolves around a controversial 
subject that is becoming more and more popular in 
films: the Vietnam War.
Vietnam is still a hotly contested piece of history, 
said professor Eugene Smith, the faculty moderator 
for this years festival. Smith, a member of the history 
department faculty and self-proclaimed child of the
sixties, tries to focus his courses on that period in his
tory and also teaches a class titled Vietnam: 
Americas Lost War which focuses on how the conflict 
influenced American culture.
I like to concentrate on how it affected average peo
ple, he said.
Smith was chosen by the department head, Joseph 
Trotter, to moderate this years film festival class. The 
class is available under the history, English, and mod
ern language departments every spring semester.
It seemed like a good choice, since it [the Vietnam 
War] is a fairly extensive film subject, said Smith. I 
also feel it has to do with our current geopolitical con
flicts; there are definitely some parallels.
This is entirely a student-run event, said Smith. I 
had very little to do with it. Students were responsi
ble not only for the selection of the films, but also for 
publicity and design. From the first week of class, stu
dents were divided into committees to manage dif
ferent aspects of the festival.
Katie Dahl, a junior English major, helped to create 
advertisements in Pittsburgh papers such as the 
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, the Tribune-Review, City 
Paper, and Pulp.
I signed up for the class because Id taken a number 
of Gene Smiths classes previously, said Dahl. When 
he told me about this class last fall, I was very inter
ested, both in the topic and because it seemed like an 
interesting opportunity to experience event prepara
tion in the real world. In addition to learning more 
about the films and gaining work experience, Dahl 
appreciated the group dynamic; something she claims 
is rare in most classes.
yktk ironman/rnoto taitor
Students were offerred the oppurtunity to get a free pass to the Vietnam Film Festival in exchange for having their heads shaved by the professor, Gene Smith.
Jeff Hinkleman, manager of the video library in 
Hunt Library, was in charge of procuring films from 
their distributors and also participated in the selection

---------------------------------------------------

process. This topic lends itself a little more to larger 
audiences, he said. It wasnt particularly hard to get 
these films, as most of them were large enough that 
they came from a centralized supplier to colleges. Im 
looking forward most to the documentaries about 
Vietnam after the war.
As for student participation, You get out of some
thing what you put into it. I think this will really 
engage the student body.
In order to raise awareness of the festival, there will 
be a publicity event outside of Doherty Hall next 
Wednesday. Festival committee members will be 
shaving any willing students head in exchange for a 
set of Tour of Duty dog tags, which will serve as a pass 
to all of the weekends events. Its a kind of reenact
ment of the initiation scene from Full Metal Jacket; we 
provide the music and the barber, you provide the 
hair, said Dahl. Well have posters and schedules out
for passersby. Hopefully, thatll attract some atten
tion.
Students and faculty alike are looking forward to a 
good turnout. Weve publicized this at the Pitt, 
Duquesne, and Chatham campuses, said Smith. Im 
very proud of all my students and the work they put 
into making sure this came together.
The festival always has a good turnout, said 
Hinkleman, but I think this one will be a little more 
popular. I hope the smaller films get as much atten
tion as the larger ones.
Dahl agreed. People seem to be excited about some 
of the big-name movies, and were hoping the docu
mentaries will interest people too. Were also hoping 
to draw people from outside the campus community, 
but its hard to predict how well our publicity is get
ting to them. If you really want to get involved, shave
Soul of India
Film about foreign violence spawns debates over media bias
Last Thursday, Alisha Bhagat, a junior materials sci
ence engineering major, hosted the screening of an 
hour-long PBS documentary called The Soul of India in 
Porter Hall 100. After the film and with the assistance 
of Jayeeta Sharma, a professor of history, Bhagat led 
an open forum discussion on the state of communal 
violence in India.
The PBS film began with a description of the demo
graphics of India but focused specifically on the casu
alties that have occurred in the year 2002 due to hos
tility that exists between Muslim and Hindu groups. 
The majority of the film documented two incidents of 
mob-like violence that occurred in 2002. In the first 
incident, a mob of Muslims set fire to a train in the 
town of Godhra, killing 60 Hindus, in February.
The film then discussed the retaliation that 
occurred later in the summer, which included a mas
sacre across the state of Gujarat that targeted and 
killed an estimated 2000 Muslims.
The film first interviewed and followed Harish 
Bhatt, a successful businessman and vice president of 
the pro-Hindu fundamentalist organization Bajrang 
Dal, which was accused in the film of organizing ter
ror. The film also showed Bhatt in two different lights, 
one organizing a Hindu pride parade and cultural cel
ebration, another indoctrinating and training young 
men in combat.
The film also interviewed the family of one of the 
victims in the Gujarat killing as well as KPS Gill, the 
appointed security advisor who took over riot control 
after the Gujarat massacre. The film claimed Gill, 
although a devout Hindu, was a strict disciplinarian 
who went to great lengths to ensure the safety of 
Muslims in the area and had helped increase the trust 
of government within the Muslim community.
The film also touched on the history of Mahatma 
Gandhis practice of nonviolence resistance and made 
a stark contrast to the several more aggressive politi
cal organizations that hold power in India today.
Before the screening of the film, some of students 
passed out fliers opposing and clarifying the narrow
minded assertions made in the film about India. 
After controversy ensued over fliers and a misc.market 
bulletin using the term state-sponsored violence 
with regard to the communal violence, several people 
in the audience attended out of concern that the film 
or discussion would make inaccurate or biased con
clusions about the Indian government and culture.
One major criticism of the film that was repeated in 
the discussion was that the film tried to make the 
viewers much more sympathetic to Muslims than 
Hindus. Another criticism raised was that PBS made a 
poor decision in not interviewing several Indian gov
ernment officials as opposed to a select few people.
Sharma clarified afterwards that she was not 
endorsing PBS and agreed the title of the film The 
Soul of India was very inappropriate. Bhagat even 
conceded the film may be biased but stated that this 
was irrelevant. Despite those agreements, several 
audience members were still critical.
The underlying goal was to show the incident that 
occurred and why it affects all Indians, to discuss the 
role of the state in Indias events, and to talk about 
what people can do regarding this tragedy, said 
Bhagat. I think that one major misconception is that 
showing a film of a negative incident in Indian history 
is not going soil the view of India in everyones mind. 
People are not that ignorant.
However, not everyone was critical of the film. The
your head on Wednesday. Otherwise, come see the 
movies and hear the speakers.
Smith hopes that students who attend will walk 
away with a better understanding of the Vietnam War 
and the people who participated in it.
People should look at the past, he said, and see if 
there are any lessons for the future.
Tour of Duty, Carnegie Mellons 2004 Film Festival, 
will be held from Thursday, April 1 to Sunday, April 4. 
Admission is $1 with a student ID, $2 without. For 
more information, go to http://www.cmu.edu/filmfestival or e-mail the film festival committee atfilm-festival@andrew.cmu.edu.
R'r3UmAdU lp'ATCCh 
eiUCCodpird
movie was unbiased and showed both sides of the 
story, said Shoba SUbramanian, doctoral student in 
biological sciences.
Several members of the audience voiced their opin
ion that the film was balanced.
After the screening, Bhagat gave a short review of 
the film before discussion began. Bhagat explained 
how the Gujarat massacre was not an isolated inci
dent and discussed the dire need to prevent further 
religious intolerance. Afterwards, Sharma gave a 10 
minute speech explaining why Indians need to hold 
their government more responsible in regards to 
large-scale violence. During Sharmas speech, Bhagat 
displayed eight short passages from articles and edi
torials of several Indian and international news mag
azines and newspapers on a projector. The majority of 
the passages heavily criticized the Indian government 
and the Hindu police for their passive role in the 
Gujarat massacre.
Before the forum ended, Arvind Arvind, a physics 
professor and member of Association of Indias 
Development (AID), gave a short lecture discussing 
various organizations that were sending aid and relief 
to victims of violence as well as promoting nonvio
lence.
India is a vibrant, functioning country, said 
Sharma. We make the point that this is not a criti
cism of any political party but to show the positive 
work being carried out for-the incident.
lpd2 tp55pmnh 
0Tmpad eiUCCodpird
piBBblxa me 9o8, mLLsh11

---------------------------------------------------

Dining out
Hot Metal Grille
On East Carson Street, by the intersection of Hot 
Metal Street in South Side, there is a restaurant just 
under a year old. Hot Metal Grille is located on the 
other side of East Carson Street tucked in among the 
new construction. Not much is there yet, maybe just 
one of two new businesses and a design firm, a gas 
station, and the Goodwill store, but the area has a lot 
of potential. After checking out the scene, the new 
addition looks to be promising for Pittsburgh.
Hot Metal Grille is a new restaurant with new age, 
postindustrial dcor. On first impression the restau
rant appeared innovative and trendy. However, after 
reflecting on the dining experience, it seemed this 
place was trying just a bit too hard to be very trendy. 
Instead of creating relaxation, the tables, chairs, bar, 
and plates gave the venue the feel of a punk rock con
cert rather than a restaurant.
The atmosphere of the restaurant seemed to be a lit
tle too reminiscent of some scenes from The Matrix. In 
some sense, it would not have been surprising to see a 
group of people in strapped black patent leather biker 
gear roll up on Hayabusas or if the bartenders tattoo 
was a little white rabbit. The night manager could 
have been an Agent.
On second impression, the Hot Metal Grille is a tad 
different. Even though the restaurant was in the 
played-out style of New York Clubs and restaurants 
from a few years ago, it does reflect parts of the 
Pittsburgh Scene. It was capitalizing on the fact that 
Pittsburgh is still a recovering steel town, and the 
dcor reflected that. The Hot Metal backdrop behind 
the bar, made up of three sheets of steel and illumi
nated with red neon lights, was the centerpiece that 
pulled the restaurant together.
Save for a random string of Christmas lights strung 
across the ceiling, the lighting seemed to be warm and 
metallic as if welding arcs illuminated the room. The 
restaurant was also decorated with poster-size photo
graphs of steel workers as well as of factories which 
tied the restaurant well to the city.
The food, on the other hand, was not exactly the 
best. First, there were only two non-seafood options 
for appetizers and those were spicy Italian stuffed bell 
peppers or a quesadilla. Though the quesadilla was 
offered in eight varieties ranging from beef (which 
was well-seasoned and tasty) to barbeque duck and 
grilled portabella, if someone were looking for a que
sadilla they would be unlikely to choose to come here 
and pay upwards of $12 for one. If you are a big fan of 
seafood and are willing to fork over at least $9 for an 
appetizer it could be the place for you.
Moving on to the entre, the honey and nut crusted 
chicken, which the menu described as sauted chick
en breast with a honeyed crust of almonds walnuts 
and cashews served with chicken jus li, might be a 
good idea to split between two people because of the 
$17.95 price tag that accompanied it.
Even though the portion was quite large, and easi
ly enough for two, the chicken was not quite as tender 
as would have been preferred. The honey crust of 
almonds, walnuts, and cashews was a bit too sweet 
but the combination was on the verge of being memo
rable. It was served with red-skinned mashed pota
toes, steamed vegetables, and a small salad. Even 
though the presentation was marvelous and intricate
ly displayed on the onyx black dishware, it was not 
enough to make up for the mediocre, overpriced food. 
The restaurant may be able to fool some with its
atmospheric charm but others will not be able to over
look the pricing and the quality of the food.
The Mont Blanc; the dessert course, happened to 
be the highlight of the meal. The Mont Blanc is a 
white chocolate cake in the shape of a four-sided 
pyramid with a delicious raspberry center completed 
with a white chocolate shell. This was the only part of 
the meal that was truly worth savoring. Again, the 
presentation was wonderful with raspberry and white 
chocolate syrup delightfully drizzled on the plate with 
a garnish of firm, fresh raspberries on the side.
On a different note, the new restaurant with its 
great presentation, service, fully stocked bar and 
modern dcor seemed to attract mainly an older 
crowd ranging from 30 to 50 year olds. Even though 
the place seems geared to a younger clientele, this hot 
metal after-work scene seems to have trouble attract
ing a fashion-setting clique. It has potential, but the 
restaurant may be too expensive to attract a younger, 
more hip crowd. It is too pricey for most college stu
dents, and the lack of twenty-somethings in 
Pittsburgh prevents the Hot Metal Grille from being 
the place to be. Even so, it may be a good place to 
book for graduation parties, or to take the folks to. 
Just be prepared: they may fit in better than you do.
Grade: B
,dpwU S\dmfrd5h 
0Tmpad eiUCCodpird
Saturday flight plans?
God in a voice you can hear. Come to Shift Saturdays!
Meet young adults in the Pgh. area. Live music by local band Soulharmonic. Sign 
up for our email newsletter. Visit ShiftNow.com for news and event information.
Bus service to Shift Saturdays sponsored by Victory Christian Fellowship.
Carnegie Mellon University: Saturdays, 7:30 p.m. @ City Bus Stop at the corner 
of Morewood Ave. and Forbes Ave. (right side of rd. headed towards Squirrel Hill) 
Bus service is round trip. $2 for round trip ticket.
SHIFT Saturdays concludes around 10 PM.
Info: 724.772.7026 ext.27  ULThen: Saturday nights at 8:30 PM  Uihere: 216 Mystic Pine Trail in Cranberry Township
nouu.com
filar. 2?: Denise Graves and her band Ifrom Covenant church of Pittsburgh) 
join us for a ni$ht of u/orship 
April 3: Q&A session u/ith Pastor John; submit your ?s at 5hiftKour.com
1piBBblxa 29 Mydcg 2004.

---------------------------------------------------

CLASSIFIEDS.
OPPORTUNITIES.
www.SpecklyDoo.com  nge glssess tew sise 
lffeditg yt ecBecsic yddyy lf gyt3ry3e gifs 
isers fld ylu, ylud glre, yt3 ylud pyrpede3 
pess! New isers y33e3 cltssytsBya Riggs tlw, 
we gyve beyusifuB cys-sgere3 jeweBdy, utusuyB 
HyBBlweet glre 3ecld isers, surred pudse 
cBeydytce syBe, yt3 utique byck-sl-scgllB puds
esa
Wyts sl ryke FASn rltey?
Ges pyi3 $3 - $10 fld ltBy 20 ritusesa Sigt 
up sl3yy sl pydsicipyse it sgis fut, eysy, yt3 
quick wld3 puzzBe ssu3ya Fld sires yt3 itfld
rysilt, e-ryiB: ejcho@andrew.cmu.edu wisg 
uuzzBe Ssu3y" it sge subjecs Bitea
LlcyB sess pdepa Clrpyty seekitg pyds-sire 
pgysics seycgedsa 1xceBBets clrruticysilts 
skiBBs y russa Gdy3 ssu3etss pdefedde3 bus tls 
Birise3 sla CyBB 412a687a4880 ld e-ryiB 
info.pittsburgh@review. com.
HAIR MOD1LS N11D1D! MyBe yt3 feryBea AiB 
gyid sypesa CyBB 412a488a8951 exsa 201 fld 
3esyiBs yt3 upclritg cyssitg cyBBsa
Seekitg y gglsswdised sl pByce ry sgluggss itsl 
wld3s fld y ryssedy tlveBa $50 ped cgypseda 12 
cgypseds: $600  15 cgypseds: $750a uBeyse 
set3 desure sl: Fifthave61@yahoo.com ld fyx 
sl: 412a422a4329 AnnN: Mda WyBsed ndetsa 
QuyBificysilts: cdeysivisy yt3 sge etjlyrets lf 
wdisitga
**Wldk Fdlr Hlre*** ItsB Clrpyty 
1xpyt3itga 1ydt up sl $500-$1500 unArla 
$2000-$7500 FnArla WiBB sdyita CyBB: 
1a888a304a0872a www.NewLifeWealth.com
u11R 1DUCAnORS WANn1D 
ueed 13ucyslds tee3e3 sl pdesets sexuyBisy e3u
cysilt pdlgdyrs sl seetsa Gll3 pubBic speykitg 
skiBBs 3eside3a Nl expedietce tecessydya uyi3 
sdyititga FBexibBe pyds-sire gludsa Muss be 
gigg scgllB gdy3uysea Gdeys fld clBBege ssu
3etssa ulssibBe itsedtsgip lppldsutisiesa Fld 
rlde itfldrysilt, pBeyse cyBB 412a288a2130 
exsa 176 yt3 ysk fld Dyrilt ld set3 e-ryiB sl 
fhcpeereducation@hotmail. com.
RessyudytsADeBia 4765 Libedsy Avea, BBllrfieB3a 
AppBy it pedslta M-F, 7 yr-3 pra
ABB plsisilts FnAuna Nexs sl Ssydbucksa Opetitg 
Mi3-Mydcga
FR11 CUn & COLOR SgluB3ed Betgsg ld Bltged 
gyida Dyses fld pdeview: 3A8 & 3A10 5-7:30 pr 
1700 1a Cydslt Ssa Nl cyBBsa
MEDICAL.
Aryzitg MesyblBisr Bdeyksgdlugg!
Llse 10 - 200 Bbsa!! 1ysy, quick, fyss, 3dyrys
ic desuBssa ABB NysudyBa Dda Reclrret3e3a $$$ 
Bycka Guydytseea
1a888a738a2802 www.NewLifeTrend.net
nyBk ngedypy Reseydcg Ssu3y fld Depdessilt 
yt3 Atxiesy ret yt3 wlret, yges 18 sl 60,
wgl yde suffeditg wisg syrpslrs lf blsg 
3epdessilt yt3 ytxiesy yde tee3e3 sl pydsici
pyse it y syBk sgedypy deseydcg ssu3ya Fld rlde 
3esyiBs ld sl see if ylu quyBify, pBeyse cyBB sge 
Depdessilt udevetsilt udlgdyr ys
412a624a4444a ngede yde tl clsss ysslciyse3 
wisg sge ssu3ya ABB cyBBs yde cltfi3etsiyBa
ClrpBeseBy geyBsgy ryBes yges 18-40 wisglus 
re3icyB pdlbBers yt3 tls sykitg yty re3icy
silts tee3e3 fld deseydcg ssu3y it sge 3ivisilt 
lf uuBrltydy, ABBedgy, yt3 CdisicyB Cyde 
Me3icite ys sge Utivedsisy lf uisssbudgg 
Me3icyB Cetseda Muss gyve tl gissldy lf 3iy
beses, itslrtiy, srlkitg, ld 3epdessilta Ssu3y 
wiBB itvlBve swl 48-glud sessilts it sge sBeep 
Bybldysldy 3uditg sge weeka nlsyB pydsicipysilt 
sire wiBB be yppdlxiryseBy flud weeksa Nl clss 
sl pydsicipytss; fitytciyB clrpetsysilt pdlvi3
e3a CyBB Hei3i ys 412a692a2880a
Depdessilt
Is is y pdlbBer fld ylu ld slrelte ylu Blve? 
Ylude tls yBltea Accld3itg sl sge NysiltyB 
Itssisuse lf MetsyB HeyBsg, 3uditg yty lte-yeyd 
pedil3, 18a8 riBBilt Aredicyts  lte it 10 
y3uBss  expedietce 3epdessilta At3dey 
FygilBiti, MD, is clt3ucsitg y deseydcg ssu3y ys 
sge Utivedsisy lf uisssbudgg Me3icyB Cetsed sl 
exyrite sge effecsivetess lf yt ytsi3epdessyts 
re3icysilt fld ryjld 3epdessilta Ylu ld y Blve3 
lte ryy quyBify if ylu:
* yde yge 18 sl 60
* feeB 3epdesse3 yt3 ytxilus
* yde eisged ytsi3epdessyts-fdee ld sykitg yt 
ytsi3epdessyts sgys is tls geBpitga
As pyds lf sge ssu3y, pydsicipytss wiBB ut3edgl 
psycglBlgicyB yssessretss yt3 deceive re3icy
silta nge re3icysilt sl be use3 it sgis ssu3y 
gys beet yppdlve3 by sge UaSa Fll3 yt3 Ddug 
A3ritissdysilt fld ryjld 3epdessilta ngede is 
tl clss fld pydsicipysitg it sge ssu3ya Fld rlde 
itfldrysilt, pBeyse cyBB ndyci SyBlpek sl3yy ys
412a624a4444a ABB cyBBs yde cltfi3etsiyBa
TRAVEL.
FBldi3y ltBy $69 lte wyy syx itca 
MexiclACydibbeyt $125 eycg wyy syx itca 
1udlpe $169 lte wyya Osged wldB3wi3e 3essi
tysilts cgeypa Bllk lt-Bite www.airtech.com 
ld 212a219a7000a
# 1 Spditg Bdeyk Vycysilts!
Cytct, Ryryicy, AcypuBcl, Bygyrys, FBldi3ya 
Cyrpus Reps Wytse3! Fdee MeyBs & uydsies!
1a800a234a7007 
endlesssummertours. com.
USA SPRING BREAK.com 
Cytct, Bygyrys, AcypuBcl, Ryryicy & Mldea 
Dlts be fllBe3! Gl wisg QuyBisy & 1xpedietce! 
28 yeyds it busitessa Lydgess Ssu3ets nlud 
Opedyslda (Divisilt lf USA Ssu3ets ndyveB)a CyBB 
nlBB Fdee: 1a877a460a6077a Nlw yBsl giditg 
Cyrpus Repsa 1ydt 2 Fdee ndips fld 15 
ndyveBeds & $$a
FOR RENT OR SALE.
Acudy Itsegdy '00 GS, 26k riBes, de3, 23d 
clupe, 5sp3, Beysged, CD, AC, sutdllfa 
1xceBBets clt3isilt $13,200a CyBB 
724a612a4403a
OHARA nOWNSHIu
Gll3 fidss gluse it sge Flx CgypeB ScgllB 
Dissdicsa Bdick Cype Cl3 wisg 3 BR, 2 Bysgsa 
$160,000a Fld itfl set3 e-ryiB sl manfredi@pitt.edu Aweslre 2 Be3dllr nlwtgluse 
SsyBea NewBy Rerl3eBe3, Rllf nlp Deck, Quiesa 
$850a00 + Gys & 1Becsdica CyBB 412a621a3028a
Luxudy 2 be3dllr lte bBlck sl CMUa BeyusifuB, 
rl3edt & spycilus wisg vyuBse3 ceiBitgsa FuBBy 
equippe3 kiscgeta Fetce3 yyd3 wisg pysila 
Lyut3dy, AACa $1200Arltsg itcBu3es gys, eBec 
& 3igisyB cybBea Rlbb ReyB 1ssyse Cla 
412a682a7622 ld rrec@telerama.com.
FOR R1Nn: CMU Ssu3ets Seekitg CMU FeryBe 
Rllrryse fld Seclt3 Be3dllr yt3 udivyse FuBB 
Bysga Syxlty Apydsretss 229 Na Cdyig Ssdeesa 
FURNISH1D Apydsrets ONLY a5 riBes fdlr 
CMUa LAUNDRY yt3 uARKING yvyiBybBea 
Sgyde3 UsiBisies, CABL1 yt3 INn1RN1na 
(WAn1R uAID)a 11-Mltsg Leyse fld 
$500Arltsga CyBB: 520a370a1787a 1-ryiB: 
tcpaz@hotmail. com.
SquiddeB HiBB, 2t3 fBlld 3upBex, 2 sydge dllrs 
pBus kiscget yt3 bysg, i3eyB fld 2 ssu3etss, 1 
bBlck fdlr bus Bite sl utivedsisy, $795, 
INCLUD1S GAS AND 1L1CnRICa CyBB
412a521a1308a
HOM1 FOR SAL1 B11CHVI1Wa Hlre wisg 
itvisitg etsdy ywyiss ylu! SlBi3, spycilus lte 
fBlld, bdick wisg cgydycsed, BeveB etsdy, teyd n, 8 
rituses sl slwt, teyd gdeetwyy, 3 bd, 1 bysga 
$55K 412a421a5659, jjune@pghmail.com
Fldess HiBBs  Fudtisge3 dllr fld dets  ltBy 
$325a00a CyBB 412a371a2256a
Spyce fld dets lt Fifsg Avetue  $600Arltsg, 
cyBB 412a681a6830a
Ote feryBe dllrryse pdefedde3 fld 2 be3dllr,
1 bysgdllr subBes Myy 1 - RuBy 31a Vedy tice 
ypydsrets, 20 rit wyBk sl cyrpusa Lyut3dy 
yt3 syfe pydkitg Bls yvyiBybBe $420Arltsga 
CyBB 412a802a7431
**nH1 AuARnM1Nn N1nWORK**
Na OAKLAND, SHADYSID1, AND SQa HILL 
GR1An LOCAnIONS, SuACIOUS, R1ASONABLY 
uRIC1Da SnUDIOS 1,2,3,4 B1DROOMSa 
DONn uUn DOWN A D1uOSIn UNnIL YOU 
S11 OUR AuARnM1NnSa SnARnING nO L1AS1 
NOW FOR SUMM1R AND FALL 
CALL 412a441a1400-
SquiddeB HiBB, 2t3 fBlld 3upBex, 2 Bydge dllrs 
pBus kiscget yt3 bysg, i3eyB fld 2 ssu3etss, 1 
bBlck fdlr bus Bite sl utivedsisy, $795, 
INCLUD1S GAS AND 1L1CnRICa CyBB
412a521a1308a
HOM1 FOR SAL1 B11CHVI1Wa Hlre wisg 
itvisitg etsdy ywyiss ylu! SlBi3, spycilus lte
fBlld, bdick wisg cgydycsed, BeveB etsdy, teyd n, 8 
rituses sl slwt, teyd gdeetwyy, 3 bd, 1 bysga 
$55K 412a421a5659, jjune@pghmail.com
Fldess HiBBs  Fudtisge3 dllr fld dets  ltBy 
$325a00a CyBB 412a371a2^56a a
fl 'Office spyce fld dets ldBg Fifsg Avetue  
$600Arltsg, cyBB 412a681a6830
ill
-
h
Classified Rates 
All local ads are free at The 
Tartans discretion
MAIL TO:
The Tartan, Box 1017 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15289
 Classifieds must be paid in 
cash, check, or credit card 
before first run date
 Non-local ad rates:
20 words................I $10.00/wk
21-50 words.........$12.00/wk
51-100 words.......$15.00/wk
 Due 5 pm Thursday before 
publication
piBBblxa 29 Mydcg 2004.1

---------------------------------------------------

HOROSCOPES.
BY DINAH WINNICK
ARI1S (Mydcg 21 - ApdiB 19): nge fBip-fBlps ylu pByt lt weyditg slrlddlw sglw ylud 
et3eyditg lpsirisra nge sglds sgldss sglw y bis sll rucg Bega
nAURUS (ApdiB 20 - Myy 20): Ylud pdlfesslds wiBB tls gyse ylu juss becyuse sgey 
fityBBy deyBize wgys y glpeBessBy seddibBe wdised ylu sduBy ydea ngitk lf glw rucg Blwed 
sgeid Itsedtes yt3 cybBe biBBs wiBB be tlw sgys sgeyve gls ylud wldk sl dey3 lved sge 
3itted sybBe yt3 ys fyriBy pydsiesa
G1MINI (Myy 21 - Rute 21): ngis eBecsilt, sdy sl flBBlw sge itssducsilts rlde cyde
fuBBy sgyt ylu 3i3 Byss sirea Lyse ybsetsee byBBlss cyttls devedse sge ssyt3itg lf 
yBdey3y-eBecse3 lfficiyBs, yt3 sgey 3lt's deyBBy cluts yBB lf sge pglslclpies ylu set3 
it eisgeda
CANC1R (Rute 22 - RuBy 22): Slresires iss irpldsyts sl y3ris 3efeys, sgyve ylud 
gey3, yt3 rlve lta Slre pelpBe juss cyts puBB lff gyvitg 3dey3Blcks, slre pelpBe 
reytitg ylu yt3 yppydetsBy ys Beyss 1/12 lf sge wldB3 plpuBysilta
L1O (RuBy 23 - Auguss 22): WgiBe ylu ryy tls gyve yty Buck wisg sge 3esigt fidrs 
ylu itsedview fld cydeed 3yy, ssduggBitg Blw-bu3ges sybBli3s yde yBwyys Bllkitg fld 
slrelte wisg uglslsglp skiBBs wgl wiBB wldk wisglus geyBsg itsud
ytce, wldkeds' clrp, ld lvedsire juss Bike ylua
VIRGO (Auguss 23 - Sepserbed 22): nge texs sire ylu jurp 
lt slrelte pussitg sgeid sl3y cyt it y tlt-bBue sdysg decep
sycBe, be sude sgey'de tls y clBldbBit3 tysiltyBBy-dytke3 plwed 
Bifsed wisg yt itsysiybBe buss-kickitg yppesise fidss if ylu 
wyts sl gyve y rlde plsisive itssducsiltyB decycBitg 
expedietcea
LIBRA (Sepserbed 23 - Ocslbed 23): Sslp 3litg yBB lf 
sge cdlsswld3 puzzBes it sge Bibdydy rygyzites, ld ys Beyss sslp beitg clcky yblus sigt
itg sger, if ylu wyts sl yvli3 rlde cdeepy (sglugg weBB-wdisset yt3 secgticyBBy ped
fecs) sgdeys Bessedsa
SCORuIO (Ocslbed 24 - Nlverbed 21): Dlt's Bes sge fyciyB 3yryge fdlr nguds3yy's 
fissfiggs ryke ylu tedvlus yblus ylud Fdi3yy yu3isilta Ylud tewflut3 vedsysiBe yppeyd
ytce fdlr viBByit sl "viBBiyts gllfy-Bllkitg, l33By 3issudbitg cBitgy si3ekick cluB3 
teved be ycgieve3 by, syy, y rlde yssdycsive pedslta
SAGInnARIUS (Nlverbed 22 - Decerbed 21): UtfldsutyseBy, 
sge y3ldybBe witsed sweyseds ylu ktis fld ylud pes 3uck 3uditg 
sge witsed wiBB sip lff ylud visisitg Byt3Bld3 yblus ylud bysg
dllr sub-3weBBitg fdiet3a WgiBe ylud beyusifuB deBysilt
sgip wisg sge bid3 ryy be sglds-Bive3, sge blt3 ylu 3eveB
lp wisg ylud gdyt3rlsged sgdlugg ylud wiB3 yt3 cdyzy 
ktissitg y3vetsudes yt3 fybdic sslde glB3ups wiBB be sduBy 
Bife cgytgitga
CAuRICORN (Decerbed 22 - Rytuydy 19): It ylud seydcg fld yffld3ybBe use3 fud
tisgitgs fld ylud tew ypydsrets, ylu wiBB 3isclved sgys tls yBB sgitgs cyt be fixe3 wisg 
y fdesg Byyed lf pyitsa Slre sgitgs tee3 sevedyB Byyeds lf pyits yt3 y ryscg juss sl
sslp sger fdlr rydditg wgyseved utfldsutyse spyce is fldce3 sl glB3 sger, itcBu3itg 
sge 3urpssed begit3 ylud buiB3itga
AQUARIUS (Rytuydy 20 - Febduydy 18): Ssyy lt ylud cuddets 
pysg lf gyd3 wldk yt3 ycy3eric 3e3icysilt yt3 ylu ryy 
slre3yy be sge pdlu3 lwted lf y deyB, pelpBe
size3 Rlgt Deede sdycsld ld, ylu ktlw, y 
plssed lf deyBBy plwedfuB ge3ge sdirredsa
uISC1S (Febduydy 19 - Mydcg 20):
Leydtitg pig Bysit ryy irpdess sge By3ies 
bus is wiBB tls irpdlve ylud GR1 Scldea
Afsed yBB, is is gyd3 sl sudpyss sucg ittyse
pedfecs getiusa Laura Semesky/Art Staff
G,dWn Raban Nam,o bg Zdohdtg Bidtd___
HdWdAdoi dWd Yae bg YdWW SimWio
Call it Schwing by Frankie
Dude! Check it out! Penguin Cam!
Im watching penguins on my computer 
from the aquarium!!
Yeah? Thats... 
cool!
Idiot
Its like a party in my computer and 
al! die penguins are invited!!
Dude., what the hell? 
Theyre not even moving..
IdiotA
OH MAN! IT MOVED!! 
THIS IS SO COOL!!
Idiot -
m
Idiot

 5'*
A J
IWiv,ndbli ,r reoh d hidvg watd bg Nht,r dWd BiW
W. W ouj
^ -bUoel
^ H[-C- sfa><dl |L*cfr'
UwVL r ____________
jjeu'rz, kf ku.
0^1 X'll -ifelU., ?((
14piBBblxa 29 Mydcg 2004.

---------------------------------------------------

VIDEO GAMES! by nydsyt Ssyff
1be^e\\eV\e\d <x cb^<c evter vsfoei>> C-V Was ^rS'V
V*A\V \^8. '^'t5fehe <mc\n spooled tOdH- abobfe c^oot^
a:g> vAa< I<TwE ^eoTS V cohS^-uc-V^ccg-^^ \VZ- ,000.
Tfe UsA*g. ^o 0005^
^Ve T>ew Co.\r&>>te ttW*y 
Vt\Vei tw^ikie-Vo^WeyVWo..
ANROSS
5First vector graphics
arcade game.
7Warios partner.
10Senator behind ESRB.
11First video game ever.
12Scorpions catch-phrase.
15Earn points for bad driv
ing.
17The green-garbed hero.
19Cherries, pills, and ghosts.
22Marios arch-nemesis.
23Who developed the Mas
ter System?
25Green or red shells with
wings or spikes.
27Ryus signature move.
28The legendary princess.
29Mario and
32First CD-based console
system.
34Street Fighters electrified
Brazilian monster.
35The first American
appearance of Mario.
36Wheres Mr. Saturn from?
378-bit aliens.
38Super Nintendos cavemen.
2 x 4! bg AdtaW Kdbldok
Thi taanr aA bleir.
DOWN
lPlayed to rhythmic music.
2The partner in Sonic the
Hedgehog 2.
3Best-selling NES game.
4Nintendo handheld.
664-bit Atari console.
8Intergalactic bounty
hunter.
9The all your base are
belong to us, game.
13The Thomas Edison of
video games.
14The two cute dinosaurs.
15A football helmet and a
pogo stick.
16Recently returned as divi
sion of Infogrames.
18Short-lived 3-d game sys
tem.
20Designer of Tetris.
21Mouth sewn shut on pro
tagonist.
24Movie about Nintendo
prodigy.
26The blue hedgehog.
30Radioactive action hero.
31Most famous first person
shooter.
33The game with the grey
and orange gun.
piBBblxa me 9o8, mLLs
..JVWV> Vvrvei c*v\y l2-y3f5
oU, VAVv^AVercvive
vepcMA <$r vTfeH^%^6WsV S^retV.
P,nnrbetgh Snat,ir bg El, PaerraW
0ro<ko.\y, ^^\l eyVoz&\>ecxx^ 
pcvtK\>o> \o or ever He.Vee.-l>
woS \o$\} wofr
vooH.^r
ov<x\,W\\t eSter ^VeVtvio 
xei^ewed >> Y\<\ o \o t*o& 
72. tAoce vosVwt^ ^>0+5..
X^IO, ^encK OU*rteoA:3r.
'Hvo oiptio^ tor-^e 
Prwidp \r> H>"lteU^eXtA-fc*cue?^ 
~V\vtN, "?W> h. V<gpV WfeVrtko&Aifocfr...

---------------------------------------------------

Scrolliti }oiJ 
ch*rt+W. 
Wtft ? if: +rwe i 
I,;5^ -fiVil'Vy/
Bvt arto't *H.jttA+ch/ ' founjfKj
you ANTS COULD BE MUGGER: 
TRYING TO SET US ALONE
UIRRELS ARE KNOWN TOi 
N WHITE COLLAR SCAMS Iryo^Gffis'couLG 
[CHILD ABDUCTOR:LIBRARIES ACROSS THE STREET, YOU 
HAVE CELL PHONES AND IVE GOT A PC 
llETSHAVEAN ONLINE CHAT
m JWBawSwvRipatnit  Wd,A, witi -H,iti 
any women on +he $hip? NA,A^Umm... Wa.
duckbar ro
Weekly inspiration from the ominously brooding pond >
Just then a large-bosomed nurse burst into the room. Kent!
Rupert! What are you two doing up at such a late hour? She was visibly upset, 
but she kept her voice hushed so as not to wake up the other patients. Kent start
ed an explanation but the corpulent nurse cut him off. Just come with me. And 
Rupert - I'll deal with you tomorrow. She gave poor Rupert a threatening look 
as she led Kent out of the room. The door clicked shut behind them and Rupert 
was alone again. Rupert climbed into his narrow hospital bed. Outside the storm 
was raging harder than ever. Ruperts thoughts would not stray from the new
found knowledge of his ancestry. Should he accept his station as leader of a group 
of dangerous revolutionaries? They hadnt tracked him down yet. But then again, 
Rupert was still a young duck. He would have to live the rest of his life in fear of 
being discovered. He pulled the sheets tighter around his body and shivered at the 
thought of what they would do to him if they found him ... not to mention what 
the large nurse would do to him in the morning!
lglit dWd Ftid bg Gtig Pt,ohdtd
WASA labs fI'm , > 
I analyzesNA$A ^tpcjNdWa,twld
Hie
T<xW astronaut John 
Glean has beencharaec* w,nh leWdt J,nnit naa <xm R+iA3dndono. rad,a mg.
Hdtald dWd nhi Onhit Geg bg Bab Rarn
You are unskilled at pleasing women. 
Lucky numbers: none
thisI___
bobrost.com/harold
Kitchen Bitch Jeremy
saves the Day-'
to>+- -to of/: 5 77^"
.-fet :'-I g/t Car negiMlo
ah! 
get
Last Weeks Answer: 
Ultra Magnus
Q: Who were the only 
two writers considered 
by DC Comics to write 
ostensibly the final 
Superman tale in 1986?
Write comics@ 
thetartan.org 
and get a chance to win 
pass to this weeks AB 
Films!
IWnitjion,aWr... bg AWdtiw Kli,W
1RH R usr unrofFpRuH1EeRi uy .Epb []kt
LovfFR
piBBblxa 29 Mydcg 2004.
Snt,p Tidri bg Soann dWd N,ok
I sfs C0/,vtsteJ -fa ||'5itn'.Oi, 
"To .MOSi'C 0<1 */5>v
Evitgbad,ir Niwr bg FtdWm Hdtnit
WE'RE TVE ONLY ONES 
HERE - WANT TO GO OUT?TS SO NOT 2000'S
11:45 bg Ed RgdW
Cg-ri(\/\ co$ n*<frtir& \/ry 
c\e<\A CMxt&m&lk
Comics Trivia Question:
Ph.D. bg Jatgi Nhdm

---------------------------------------------------

BRSkMaaB, lOOKEP 
REAL DEPRESSED 
LATELY... YOU SHWLP 
GO BACK To THAT 
PSYCHIATRIST VO0 
OSED To SEE.
iMe idprA ia
BRl, RmO 
RccbJSKB,SKh 
*bK et, 
AarnmWi /pw2 
.c t,^ ctbS,k
jost goby the Y okay...
OFFICE ...MAYBE Bv)T I 
yoo'tL wUiwy yrd u nTdr
WHILE SHE'S INJ. / HOPE SHE'S 
s--------u--------V THERE . .
PSYCHIATRIC
HEI.P5
THE DOCTOR
SO UJHATSX HE'LL KEEP LOOKING. 
HE HE SAYS THERE'S 
60MNA / ONE OTHER aACE 
PO? k SHE MlGHT BE. .
PIP FIGFltviD 
His 
psychiatrist:
...YOU Y kkkM,Rtkk 
*aT5yi *U''aamn
A WAKE ME
ballookj 1 happy.
...You 
WANT 
To BE 
ALONE
LO. HE WENT 
BY HER OFFICE, 
BT SHE 
WASN'T ifJ. y
eaddD DaT 
waTp/mi
FIND YOOR 
PSYCHIATRIST.*SlGHfc
_____
YO'RE A 
,rNrHq
RcrbR pRi bENi
BT WOOLP YOU 
BE INTERESTEP 
I hi BEING AM 
ORGAN PONOR?>
ASchh 204
WTF! Ado,l,ndnid bg Jarh Anldr dWd JaW Btadrkg
ra.'|c>i teiltetke 
>4-Lc*use of the
Wft wetet i~- > /I,
fVOMff Pii?). --U-~" *""/> r-Jo on O . A /ft n n n n ^ \n a a n n r
* <~Lou/NS
/k-C *UN,NaeWnitmdW bg Jarh dWd AdtaW
it appears that sheer 
boredom has forced my 
.brain from my body. >
this is back a day 
late. I'm afraid, 
what do X owe you'?Good day, loyal 
readers!
We here at the 
comics section 
love feedback. 
If you have any 
questions, criti
cisms or want to 
start a comic of 
your own...
Write to us!
comics@thetartan.org
\\nd. roOvxAj*
Co *UL>to r<xV\
young man?
crap! a customer! 
better hide...Jakir W cdAAr bg El, PaerraW
Where- <^o
o>ovbtr\ -Weywo^V
thank vo.
~^there you
pearls before swineby Stephan Pastis
piBBblxa me 9o8, mLLsh17

---------------------------------------------------

Comickaze:
And The Winner Is?
What if you could pit your favorite heroes against 
each other in the ultimate battle for the best? To 
indulge the fanboy in all of us (dont worry, ladies, 
this includes fangirls too), I have taken it upon 
myself to act as referee in the supreme super-pow
ered fight.
Battle for Greatest Supporting Comics 
Publisher: Dark Horse Comics vs. Image Comics
Hellboy vs. Spawn
There are no sneak attacks to begin the battle; 
Dark Horse Comics Hellboy simply walks up to 
Spawn and punches him in the face. Not the least 
bit dazed, the demon representative of Image 
Comics lets his cape flap around excessively as he 
conjures his hell-born powers and shoots a blinding 
ray of energy directly at the monster hunter. 
Hellboy travels backwards for a good 50 yards, 
landing with a crash. Hellboy looks at Spawn and 
looks at his gun. Suddenly, the gun is gone from his 
hand as Hellboy leaps into the air, pounding the 
hellspawn on the head and tearing off his mask. I 
may not be pretty, the large-fisted detective 
growls, but you are one ugly bastard. Angered, 
Spawn lights Hellboys body on fire. Hellboy dash
es to the ground to smother the flames as Spawn 
contemplates whether he really wants to kill a fel
low crime-fighter. But while Spawn is thinking 
about his feelings, Hellboy manages to find the 
giant sword and slices his opponent right down the 
middle, sending him straight back to Hell.
Winner: Hellboy (Dark Horse Comics)
Battle for the Greatest Comics Publisher of 
All-Time: DC Comics vs. Marvel Comics
Aquaman vs. Prince Namor
The opener for the main event is an aquatic 
throw-down between DCs Aquaman and Marvels 
Sub-Mariner. Aquaman may talk to the fishes, but 
Namor speaks with his fists and the pointy-eared 
prince sends bubbles flying as he body checks 
Aquaman into a coral reef. Aquaman shakes off the 
first hit and quickly calls upon a school of piranhas 
to nibble on his foe. Responding, Namor scoops up 
Aquaman and rockets to the top of a vast mountain 
peak. Knowing that Aquaman has no ability to con
tact fish from a mountain and he cant stay out of 
the water for more than an hour, Namor feels safe 
of his victory as he descends back to the ocean.
Winner: Prince Namor, the Sub-Mariner (Marvel 
Comics)
Batman vs. Daredevil
The vigilantes meet on a dark city rooftop, ready 
to duel. DCs Dark Knight slowly searches the 
rooftop, looking for any signs of his opponent. 
Meanwhile, Daredevil hides in the shadows, listen
ing to Bruce Waynes heartbeat. Batmans heart is 
surprisingly steady, even as Matt Murdock leaps 
from the shadows and connects with Batmans 
lower back. Batman pulls Marvels lawyer/vigilante 
towards him so he can look into his opponents 
eyes. While Batman is shocked to find his opponent 
is blind, the protector of Hells Kitchen has enough 
time to place a hit on Batmans lower right side, 
cracking two ribs. The Dark Knight reaches into his 
utility belt and pulls out a small red pellet. The 
object strikes the ground and a puff of smoke bil
lows out from Batmans feet. With his last glimpse 
of clarity, Daredevil throws his billy club at Bruces 
knees, rendering a loud crack and sending Batman 
to the ground. Batman takes decisive action as he 
cracks Matt Murdock with a stiff head-butt, leaving 
the blind warrior down for the count.
Winner: Batman, Bruce Wayne (DC Comics)
Superman vs. the X-Men
The DC Comics Man of Steel floats to the ground 
and offers to shake the hand of his first comrade in 
battle, the steel-skinned Colossus. Piotr Rasputin, 
fighting for Marvels X-Men, grasps Clark Kents 
mitt in friendship. But Superman begins to 
strengthen his grip rather than release. Confused, 
Colossus realizes he has been engaged in battle. A 
punch directly to the gut sends the star of Action 
Comics soaring into the air, while Colossus backs 
off to nurse his twisted metal hand.
Superman attempts to soak in the rays of the 
Earths sun, his true power source. As he feels 
refreshed, he hears a voice say his Kryptonian 
name: Kal-El, come to the ground. Superman 
lowers himself back towards the mansion Son, 
the figure says, I have been waiting to meet you. 
Father? Clark questions. As Superman approach
es the figure, he feels a sharp pain in his chest. 
Superman looks down only to see three metal 
blades extended through his heart. The unbreak
able adamantium knives extending from 
Wolverines left hand suddenly silence the Man of 
Steel. Wolvie puffs on a cigar as the strange father 
takes his true appearance: a slim bald man in a 
wheelchair, named Professor Xavier, the most pow
erful mind in the known world.
Winner: the X-Men (Marvel Comics)
Spw2 BUdpmah 
ermpad 7aPpwn eiUCC
Photo courtesy of comicscontinuum.com
Dydk Hldse Clrics 3erlt Byys sge sryck3lwta
Photo courtesy of comicscontinuum.com
udlfessld Xyvied yt3 gis rusyts riBisiya
PILLBOX. 29 MARCH 2004

---------------------------------------------------

Utivedsisy Lecsudea Opet Mit3 Lecsude Sediesa Hi33et 
Vlices: nge Lives lf LGBnIQ MusBirsa FyisyB AByr, 
flut3ed & 3idecsld AB-Fysigy Flut3ysilta 4:30 prA3yrslt Witg, Byked HyBB 136Aa
ScgllB lf Music Gdy3uyse RecisyBa Kysdity Rlzrus, vilBita 
Kdesge RecisyB HyBBa 8 pra Fdeea
Lecsudea Itsedpdesysilts lf sge uyssilt yt3 Deysg lf 
Resusa IrpBicysilts fld Rewisg-Cgdissiyt ReBysiltsgipsa 
Wisg Mydy Blys, ABvit Bedkut yt3 WiBBiyr nglrpsltUbeduygya Duqueste Utivedsisya CyBB 412a396a1929a
Lecsudea Rlbeds Kidsgteda nge 1xsdyvygyts Utivedse; 
1xpBl3itg Ssyds, Dydk 1tedgy yt3 sge AcceBedysitg 
Clsrlsa Duqueste Utivedsisya CyBB 412a396a4900a
Rlsg Gdlbyta Heitz HyBB fld sge uedfldritg Adss, 
Dlwtslwta CyBB 412a392a4900a
ScgllB lf Music Gdy3uyse RecisyBa MydBete Vedwey, fBusea 
Kdesge RecisyB HyBB 8 pra Fdeea
Lecsudea UtBlckitg sge CByssicsa Ket MeBszed yt3 
rerbeds lf sge uSO 3iscuss yt3 pByy wldk by 
Scgletbedga nge Libdydy Cetsed, Dlwtslwta CyBB 
412a281a5945a
ScgllB lf Music Gdy3uyse RecisyBa DytieB CBlusied, sdlrbltea 
ABurti Cltceds HyBBa 8 pra Fdeea
GyBBedy nyBka Wisg Duyte MicgyeBs ys sge Cydtegie Museur 
lf Adsa CyBB 412a622a3131a
Lutcgsire Lecsude Sediesa ngis week: Is nykes y LissBe Bis 
lf Mygic sl Syve 1tedgya Wisg Att Gedycea ScgetBey uydk 
Visislds Cetsed, OykByt3a CyBB 412a682a7275 x 209a
Utivedsisy Lecsudea nge ScgllB lf Ads Lecsude Sediesa Dda 
Mycgikl Kusygydy, ScgllB lf Lesseds, Adss yt3 Scietces, 
Wyse3y Utivedsisy, nlkyl, Rypyta 5 pra McCltlry 
Au3isldiur, Utivedsisy Cetseda
FRIDAY 2.
.............. .
Lecsudea ngis week: "1sgicyB Cltsi3edysilts it 
usycgiysdic Reseydcga Wisg Lyudy Rlbedssa Wessedt 
uettsyBvytiy Itssisuse & CBitic, OykByt3a CyBB 
412a624a0750a
uitcgys Zukedryt seycges vilBit ryssedcByssa Rewisg 
Clrrutisy Cetseda SquiddeB HiBBa CyBB 412a521a8010a
FeBsrykitg Wldksglpa Wisg Megres Gidgica Myssdess 
Fycsldy, Nldsg Si3ea CyBB 412a231a3169 ld 
412a983a4914a
nge WydglB: Gll3 Fdi3yysa WydglB-nl-Gl: A Vydiesy Sglwa
It WydglB-nl-Gl, sge scgllB lf 3dyry pdesetss iss cdeysive 
deycsilt sl At3y WydglB, gis fdiet3s, yt3 gis wldk it y 
vydiesy sglw pus slgesged by ycsitg, 3idecsitg, yt3 pByywdisitg ryjlds sgys itcBu3es pedfldrytce yds, ruBsire3iy 
pdesetsysilts, skescg clre3y, yt3 rltlBlguesa 8 pra 
nickess $5; itcBu3es ruseur y3rissilta
GBlbyB Secudisy Cyucusa Ssu3etss, ycy3erics, pdycsisilt
eds, yt3 ycsivisss sl 3iscuss issues deBevyts sl gBlbyB 
guryt secudisya Bdluggs sl ylu by sge Agldy, yt ldgyti
zysilt lf sge Gdy3uyse ScgllB lf uubBic yt3 ItsedtysiltyB 
Affyids (GSuIA), it clBBybldysilt wisg sge Asslciysilt lf 
Wlret it uubBic HeyBsg, y wlret's ldgytizysilt lf sge 
Gdy3uyse ScgllB lf uubBic HeyBsga ulsvyd HyBB ys 
Utivedsisy lf uisssbudgga Fdee fld uiss ssu3etssa $10 fld 
fycuBsy, clrrutisy yt3 tlt-ssu3etssa CyBB 
412a983a4914, visis http://www.pitt.edu/~sorc/agora, ld 
cltsycs TBConf@pitt.edu.
Cltcedsa Hyt3fycea Wisg VlBsyge, Supedwlw yt3 ng 
Ddey3tlssa $6a GydfieB3 Adswldks, 4931 uett Avea
RlyfuB Nlise udesetss GOSu1L RAM 2004a 8 pra
Bete3ur HyBB, Utivedsisy lf uisssbudgga $2a Visis 
www. andrew. emu. edu/~jn.
Dytcea uisssbudgg Dytce ClutciB pdesetss Les ByBBess 
Ryzz 3e MltsdeyBa Bygyr ngeysed, Dlwtslwta CyBB 
412a456a6666a
Cltcedsa nABULA RASAa Wisg Cys Ot Fldr, Off Mitld, 
Sequliya 7 pra Mda Rlblsl udljecs, 722 Wll3 Ssa $5a 
Visis www.dork.com/tabuiarasa/.
Ressyudyts Seekitg Musiciytsa NiclBesa Na HiggByt3 
Rly3, juss pyss Msa Lebytlta Begittitg ApdiB 1a 
Ditted fdlr 5 sl 8 pr, Blutge sdy3e fdlr 8 pr sl 2 
yra uiytl yvyiBybBea Seekitg quies 3itted etsedsyit
rets (gydp, cByssicyB guisyd, piytl, vlice) yt3 Blu3ed, 
Blutge-sype rusica CyBB ABice Deresdius Sslck ys 
412a343a1369 ld 412a263a1563a 1-ryiB 
astock@post-gazette.com ld goldenbough@aol.com.
ABBeggety Itsedre3iyse Utisa VlButseed suslditg sl 
seycg 1tgBisg ys y Seclt3 Lytguygea CyBB 
412a281a4494a
Aredicyt CiviB Libedsies Utilta Seekitg geBp it yBB 
ydeysa CyBB 412a681a7736a
AtiryB Fdiet3sa nl wldk it yBB ydeys ys sgis sgeBsed fld 
glreBess ytiryBsa Ssdip Dissdicsa CyBB 
412a566a2103a
Big Bdlsgeds Big Sisseds lf Gdeysed uisssbudgga A3uBss sl 
retsld yt3 clutciB ylutg pelpBe fdlr sitgBe-pydets 
yt3 ys-disk glresa CyBB 412a363a6100a
Big I3ey Bllk Sglpa Ry3icyB bllk & decld3 sglp seek
itg ssyffa WiBkitsbudga CyBB 412a481a5227a
------------
VOX
POPULI.
nH1 OFFICIAL VOIC1 
OF 500 BAAAABI1Sa 
SUBMIn nO VOX uOuULIaset3 ylud wld3 jutk sl 
tartan@andrew. emu. edu
4* s*
* sressa Pa"S 9r *
r0 sr
2, o,
u CP 
 * 
& 
*
A'-
I
rO^
***** 
*o

>s 
v0s A**Q, rfy1 (Vyy #
c?
*MMy

m-ya    
  JE J.w   . N
'S ^
HMtl*
X.
*%%% %%%%
AeWon,aW?
piBBblxa 1 Mydcg 2004.1

---------------------------------------------------

Kevit CgytgAScinecg 13isld
15 Minute Break: Reach out and see, a painting by Joana Ricou, a senior art and biology major, captures a moment in the lives of diner waitresses.
