PILLBOX
Carnegie Mellons student newspaper since 1906
Pittsburgh festival offers indie ?lm paradise  B8Movember raises mens health awareness  A7
FORUM
Ph.D. students use phones to track down malaria  A4
SCITECH
thetartan.org
@thetartan
November 12, 2012
Volume 107, Issue 11
NOL UM
Assistant News Editor 
BRIAN TRIMBOLI 
Staffwriter
A record-breaking number 
of Carnegie Mellon students 
showed up at the polls this 
year. Students cast 1,445 votes 
at polling locations on Carnegie Mellons campus, a leap 
from the 1,140 votes cast in 
the 2008 election.
This increase in voter turnout did not necessarily mean 
greater enthusiasm for the 
election, but was due in part to 
the increased number of voters on campus. In 2008, there 
were 2,153 registered voters 
at Carnegie Mellon; this year, 
there were 3,269.
Thus, the percentage of 
voter turnout actually decreased from 52.5 percent in 
2008 to 44.2 percent in 2012, 
according to the Allegheny 
County Pennsylvania Election 
Detail District Report.
According to that same report, 1,724 Carnegie Mellon 
students voted for President 
Barack Obama, 368 voted for 
Republican candidate Mitt 
Romney, 57 voted for Libertarian candidate Gary Johnson, 
and 18 voted for Green Party 
candidate Jill Stein.
Compared to the 2008 elections, Obama did not have as 
great of a lead among Carnegie Mellon students in this 
election. In 2008, Obama accrued 83.41 percent of the 
Carnegie Mellon vote, leaving 
Senator John McCain with 
13.28 percent of the vote 
for those who did not vote a 
straight party ticket.
This year, Obama received 
78.69 percent of the campus 
vote, and Romney received 
17.23 percent. The percentages for those who voted straight 
party remained similar.
Students emerging from 
the voting booths expressed 
their enthusiasm in voting for 
their respective candidates.
I voted for Obama because 
Mitt Romney seems like the 
king of contradictions, and 
Obama clearly has a good 
track record in terms of recovering the economy, in terms 
of social issues for gay rights 
and women. When he spoke 
on campus [last summer], he 
said he would take the gloves 
off and not be as compromising as he was in the ?rst two 
years, said Michael Hadida, a 
?fth-year architecture major.
Students who voted for 
Romney based on his economic plan were disappointed with 
Obamas re-election. Firstyear undeclared Dietrich College student Laurnie Wilson 
said, I mostly voted for Romney because I didnt like how 
the current economic state has 
evolved under the Obama administration. Im disappointed 
that Romney lost, but I wasnt 
necessarily surprised.
Reid Sherard, senior decision science and Chinese 
double major, said, I voted 
for Romney to vote against 
Obama, because I didnt like 
his economic plans. I think 
adding $4 trillion to the national de?cit is a sign of mismanagement despite how 
the rest of the economy is doing. I liked Romneys rhetoric 
on cutting the national debt 
because I think we cant be 
spending $4 trillion of my childrens money; its only going 
to lead to a bigger economic 
problem than what we have 
now.
Some students, however, 
made their decisions based 
on Obamas social views, and 
were excited for another four 
Election 2012: Record number of students vote in UC
New goal for womens soccer
BRENT HEARD
Assistant News Editor
Undergraduate students 
have voted in favor of recommending an increase in their 
student activities fee, while 
graduate students have voted 
against the proposition. The 
fee increase for undergraduates will be brought to the 
Board of Trustees for consideration.
Voting 64.02 percent in favor and 35.88 percent against 
(681 and 382 votes, respectively), undergraduates have 
supported student governments recommendation to 
suggest an increase in the undergraduate student activities 
fee by 25 percent.
Graduate students rejected 
the recommendation to raise 
the graduate student activities fee, voting 16.51 percent 
in favor with 157 votes, and 
83.39 percent against with 
789 votes.
Voting ran between last 
Thursday and Saturday evening and was conducted 
through the student government website.
Upon visiting the website, 
the voter was ?rst shown a 
message from Jon Mark, the 
Student Body Vice President 
for Finance. The message included links to an activities 
fee data sheet and presentation.
Students, depending on 
their status as undergraduate 
or graduate students, were 
presented with the opportunity to vote on whether there 
should be a recommended increase in their student activities fee.
Above the voting box was 
a paragraph explaining what 
the activities fee is intended 
to do and examples of organizations that bene?t from 
this money. The explanation 
concluded with a justi?cation 
for the proposed increase and 
the numerical increases that 
would be recommended by a 
yes vote.
Voter turnout for the election was markedly low, with 
only 18.11 percent (1,053 
out of 5,816) of undergraduates voting, and 16.83 percent 
(945 out of 5,614) of graduate 
students voting. This resulted 
in a total voter turnout of 
1,998 out of 11,430, or 17.48 
percent of students.
Mark, a senior lighting design major, said that the voting percentages do not add up 
to 100 percent because some 
students logged in and hit the 
vote button without selecting 
an option.
Gina Casalegno, the dean 
of student affairs, said in an 
email, I am pleased to see the 
results have generated decisive input on the wishes of the 
undergraduate and graduate 
student populations. Voter 
turnout was on par with totals we have seen in past general student government elections, which is impressive for 
a special election.
In the spring 2012 general student government 
elections, 27.61 percent of 
undergraduates voted, and 
4.98 percent of graduate students voted. In the 2011 general elections, 25.45 percent 
of undergraduates and 6.99 
percent of graduate students 
voted.
Casalegno continued, I 
applaud Jon Mark and those 
who supported his efforts to 
gather and present relevant 
data and information to the 
student population describing 
the strains faced by Senate, 
the Joint Funding Committee, 
and many student organizations and projects. Carnegie 
Mellon University has a long 
tradition of student governance, and I am pleased the 
election yielded clear input to 
guide student governments 
?nal recommendation to the 
Board of Trustees for their approval of next years activities 
fees.
Mark was also happy with 
the results. I was pretty 
convinced the undergraduate measure would pass, and 
?gured the graduate referendum wouldnt pass, he said.
He praised the Graduate 
Student Assembly (GSA), saying, GSA did a lot of work 
getting people informed. He 
noted the higher graduate 
student voter turnout as compared to the previous student 
body election.
Andrew Schwartz, a sophomore information systems 
major, served as a researcher 
on the ?scal data for student 
government, and was pleased 
with the result. I think its a 
phenomenal step, he said.
Schwartz described how 
a number of student organizations had solicited JFC for 
money, but were unable to 
receive it. Now that theres 
more money in the system, 
we know exactly where to put 
it, he said.
Dylan Mori, a senior chemistry major and president of 
the Kiltie Band, was pleased 
with the vote. I know a lot of 
organizations got hit hard last 
year with JFC cuts, our organization included, Mori said.
I expect that youll see 
more activities on campus, 
and less brownie sales, 
Schwartz said.
Fee raise partially approved
ABBY SMITH
Assistant Sports Editor
The Carnegie Mellon womens soccer team made history 
on Saturday when it won its 
?rst NCAA tournament game 
at home. The Tartans scored 
a huge victory against Cabrini 
College in a 50 shutout and 
will advance to the second 
round.
Senior Brianna Magill had 
a standout game, scoring 
twice to contribute to the win. 
The ?rst came in the seventh 
minute, when she made a shot 
toward the center of the goal 
box, which gave the Tartans a 
10 lead. In the 17th minute, 
Magill scored again, marking 
her seventh goal of this season.
Sophomore forward Savina Reid, junior forward Cecilia Zischkau, and junior 
forward Alex Venegas each 
had goals that propelled the 
Tartans to victory.
Reids goal was marked by 
a stellar header in the 15th 
minute, assisted by junior defender Rachel Contopoulos. 
This was Reids ninth goal of 
the season.
After a 30 start during the 
games ?rst half, the Tartans 
Jos Lpez/Junior Photographer
Junior forward Cecilia Zischkau (No. 12) has three goals this season, with her most recent goal coming in 
the ?rst round of NCAA tournament play against Cabrini College. The Tartans are undefeated in games that 
Zischkau has found the back of the net.
Jonathan Carreon/Photo Editor
Top: Last Tuesday, 1,445 students showed up to vote in the Alumni Lounge. Bottom Right: Students line up inside the University Center to cast their ballots.
Jonathan Carreon/Photo EditorSee ELECTION, A3
See NCAA, A10

---------------------------------------------------

A2  thetartan.org/news The Tartan  November 12, 2012
David Rees
Monday at 5:30 p.m. 
McConomy Auditorium
Humorist David Rees will 
visit campus to deliver a lecture. Rees is the author of the 
comic series, Get Your War 
On, which uses stock art to 
critique political topics. He is 
the author of the recent book 
How to Sharpen Pencils, a 
satirical but accurate instructional manual on the art of 
manually sharpening pencils.
Will Bruder
Monday at 6 p.m. 
Carnegie Museum of Art 
Theater
Architect Will Bruder will 
speak as part of the School 
of Architectures fall lecture 
series. Bruder is the head of 
Will Bruder Architects. The 
?rm works on a variety of 
projects, including residential buildings, civic buildings, 
interiors, as well as projects 
that require repurposing and 
master planning. Bruders 
recent projects include the 
Burton Barr Phoenix Central 
Library, the Scottsdale Museum of Contemporary Art, the 
Nevada Museum of Art, and 
the Agave Library in Phoenix.
Jean-Franois Lalonde
Tuesday at 4 p.m. 
Rashid Auditorium (Gates 
Hillman Complex 4401)
Post-doctoral associate 
Jean-Franois Lalonde will 
deliver his School of Computer Science Dissertation 
Award lecture, Understanding Illumination in Natural 
Images. Lalonde uses algorithms to estimate the position of light sources in natural images and to imitate this 
light in computer-generated 
images. Lalonde received his 
Ph.D. in robotics from Carnegie Mellon last year. He is 
currently a post-doctoral associate at Disney Research.
Morris Fiorina
Tuesday at 4:30 p.m. 
Margaret Morrison A14
Stanford University political science professor Morris 
Fiorina will deliver a talk titled The Road to (and from) 
the 2012 Election as part of 
the Center for International 
Relations and Politics policy 
forum. Fiorina is a senior fellow at the Hoover Institution. 
Morriss most recent research focuses on the degree 
to which elected of?cials actually represent the preferences of the public. He is the 
author of numerous books 
and articles about national 
politics, and he has served 
on the editorial boards of 
over a dozen political science 
and policy journals. He has 
also served as chairman of 
the board of overseers of the 
American National Election 
Studies.
Compiled by
MADELYN GLYMOUR
Corrections & Clari?cations
If you would like to submit a correction or clari?cation, please e-mail The Tartan at news@thetartan.org 
or editor@thetartan.org with your inquiry, as well as 
the date of the issue and the name of the article. We will 
print the correction or clari?cation in the next print issue and publish it online.
Lecture Preview
Carnegie Mellons Qatar campus hosted Stand 
Up Comedy Qatar (SUCQ)s 
Comedy Showdown, in 
which alumnus Mohammed 
Fahad Kamal competed for 
laughs on a team of Qataris 
against a team of expatriates, 
last Tuesday.
Kamal is the ?rst Qatari 
stand-up comedian. Kamal 
explained, in a university 
press release, It feels wonderful, I cannot wait to go 
on stage and perform for 
the community that I love so 
dearly. I just hope that my 
professors can understand 
that I used my business degree from CMU to become a 
successful comedian.
The showdown aimed to 
bring together Qatars different communities by uniting 
both nationals and expatriates through comedy and 
laughter. SUCQ is a coalition 
of stand-up comedians living in Qatar who promote 
comedy in the region by supporting rising comedians and 
hosting regular events and 
tours.
SUCQs long-term goal is 
to establish a successful and 
well-recognized yearly regional comedy festival.
Compiled by
MADELYN GLYMOUR
Senior computer science 
major Nathaniel Barshay, 
computer science Ph.D. student Yan Gu, and senior 
computer science and mathematics double major Jonathan Paulson took ?rst place 
in this years regional competition for the Association 
for Computing Machinerys 
International Collegiate Programming Contest (ACMICPC). Five teams from Carnegie Mellon competed.
The performance of our 
teams was tremendous, said 
head coach Danny Sleator, 
professor of computer science, in a university press 
release. 
Four of the top six teams 
were from CMU, he added.
Barshay, Gu, and Paulson 
solved all nine programming 
problems presented by the 
competition in four hours. As 
the regional ?rst-place team, 
they are guaranteed a spot in 
the international ACM-ICPC 
?nals this summer.
The competition was held 
at Youngstown State University this year.
There were numerous 
competitors from Carnegie 
Mellon also participating in 
the competition, with the 
other four teams placing 
fourth, ?fth, sixth, and 23rd 
out of 131 teams.
CAMPUS NEWS IN BRIEF
CMU team takes ?rst place in programming contest
FEATURE PHOTOLate night shows CMUs many nations
WEATHER
TUESDAY
High / Low
54 / 36
WEDNESDAY
High / Low
50 / 38
THURSDAY
High / Low
50 / 38
FRIDAY
High / Low
52 / 38
SATURDAY
High / Low
54 / 42
Graf?ti
Nov. 4, 2012
University Police were 
called to Woodlawn Apartments to take a report of graf?ti on the rear wall of the 
building. Someone had used 
blue paint to draw an unidenti?ed symbol on the wall 
above the rear porch roof. Of?cers took photographs of the 
graf?ti and continue to investigate the incident. They have 
also increased patrols in the 
area.
Theft
Nov. 6, 2012
University Police were 
summoned to Hunt Library 
to take two reports of laptop 
theft. The thefts occurred on 
the second and third ?oors of 
Hunt Library, approximately 
between the hours of 5 p.m. 
and 6:30 p.m. University Police continue to investigate 
these incidents.
Theft
Nov. 7, 2012
University Police responded to the University Center for 
a theft report. The reporting 
person said that at about 5 
p.m., she went into the second-?oor womens restroom, 
leaving her book bag outside 
with her Carnegie Mellon ID 
and iPhone on top. She stated 
she was in the restroom for 
approximately two minutes. 
When she returned to her bag, 
the phone and ID were gone.
Theft
Nov. 7, 2012
The University Police were 
summoned to take a report of 
a theft of a bicycle tire. The 
theft occurred at the bicycle 
rack in front of the Morewood 
Gardens Student Health Services of?ce. It is believed that 
the tire was taken between the 
hours of 3 p.m. on Tuesday 
and midnight on Wednesday.
Theft 
Nov. 8, 2012
The University Police were 
summoned by contractors 
working on the construction 
of the new Carnegie Mellon building, Scott Hall. The 
contractors stated that approximately 75 feet of copper 
wiring was taken from the 
construction site. The contractors believe the copper was 
taken between Aug. 31 and 
last Thursday. This investigation is ongoing.
Odor of Marijuana
Nov. 8, 2012
University Police were 
called to Morewood Gardens 
E-Tower for an odor of marijuana. Of?cers discovered no 
marijuana, but instead discovered that the occupant of the 
room had been huf?ng nitrous 
oxide cartridges. Of?cers con?scated all evidence and are 
determining if criminal charges will be ?led.
Alcohol Amnesty
Nov. 8, 2012
University Police, along 
with Carnegie Mellon EMS, 
responded to the Kappa Kappa Gamma sorority house to 
tend to an intoxicated female. 
The female was treated on 
scene. Alcohol Amnesty applied to this incident.
Campus Crime & Incident Reports
Statistically Speaking
On Tuesday, Barack Obama was re-elected as President. The New York Times political blogger Nate Silver 
projected the outcome of the election based on polling 
data, and when Floridas electoral votes were decided 
on Saturday, the accuracy of his predictions ?nally became clear. Here are some facts about Silver and the 
election:
20 percent
90.9 percent
51
The number of states (plus the District of Columbia) 
whose electoral votes Silver correctly predicted.
332
The number of electoral votes won by Obama.
Compiled by 
MADELYN GLYMOUR
Source:
?vethirtyeight.blogs.nytimes.com
Source: www.accuweather.com
The likelihood with which Silver said Obama would win 332 
electoral votes.
Jennifer Coloma/Operations Manager
Carnegie Mellons Asian Student Association and International Student Union held their Wavin Flags Late Night event in the University Center on 
Saturday. The event featured student organizations representing various nations and displayed their arts, food, and cultural traditions for attendees. 
The likelihood with which Silver said Obama would 
win the election.
CMU-Q sponsors stand-up comedy showdown

---------------------------------------------------

November 12, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/news  A3
ANNA WALSH
Personnel Manager 
MADELYN GLYMOUR 
News Editor
A former Carnegie Mellon 
trustee has been charged with 
conspiracy to commit money 
laundering. Marco Delgado 
(HNZ 90), a lawyer who lives 
in El Paso, Texas, was arrested 
by U.S. Department of Homeland Security agents in Texas 
last Friday, according to the 
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette.
According to court documents, a grand jury indicted 
Delgado for laundering money 
associated with drug dealing 
in Texas and outside the U.S. 
from July 2007 to December 
2008. The Post-Gazette reported that he allegedly helped the 
Mexican Milenio drug cartel, 
also known as Cartel de los Valencia, launder approximately 
$600 million. Delgado endowed a scholarship in Heinz 
College for Hispanic graduate students in public policy 
and management in 2002; in 
2005, the Carnegie Mellon 
Alumni Association granted 
him an Alumni Service Award, 
which recognizes those who 
have been active in alumni or 
university affairs. According 
to the Post-Gazette, Delgado 
was appointed to Carnegie 
Mellons Board of Trustees in 
2006. He was listed as a board 
member for this year, but left 
the board this summer.
This is not the ?rst time 
that a university af?liate has 
faced charges of money laundering. In 2009, the general 
partners of Westridge Capital 
Management, Inc., in which 
Carnegie Mellon was an investor, were brought up on 
charges of money laundering, 
fraud, and conspiracy. According to Bloomberg, the partners 
used investment money to buy 
homes, cars, horses, and collectible teddy bears. Carnegie 
Mellon and the University of 
Pittsburgh, which was also an 
investor, sued.
Trustee charged with money laundering pleads not guilty
Students gather to watch election end
years of his presidency.
Michelle Couste, a sophomore civil and environmental engineering major, said, 
I know that the economy is 
improving, and I think Obama 
is doing a decent job. I agree 
with him on more of the social 
issues than Romney. Despite 
being a Catholic, Im pro-gay 
marriage, and I support his 
other social issues. I wasnt 
positive that Obama would 
win because it was de?nitely 
close, but Im happy that he 
won.
Students showed up to support both Obama and Romney 
at an election results viewing 
event co-hosted by the student body president and vice 
president and Activities Board 
Political Speakers in Rangos 
Hall last Tuesday.
Student Body Vice President Meela Dudley, a senior 
professional writing and creative writing double major 
who identi?ed herself as a 
right-leaning centrist, predicted that the election would 
come down to the swing states 
of Florida and Ohio.
Dudley said that she voted 
on the basis of social, not ?scal issues. I tend to believe 
that I prioritize the social 
issues.... After the second 
debate, it became clear that 
neither candidate had a solid 
[economic] plan. Each kept 
on saying Im going to ?x it, 
Im going to ?x it, so thats 
become less important to me, 
and Ive been focusing more 
on social issues, she said.
Luke Sampson, a ?rst-year 
biology and economics double major, and Taylor Maggiacomo, a ?rst-year chemistry 
major, both wore matching 
red Keep calm and vote for 
Romney shirts to the viewing 
party. Sampson referenced 
Romneys economic policies 
as the reason he chose to vote 
Republican. His economic 
policy I agree with more than 
Obamas; it seems the reason 
I really stayed Republican was 
that I just tend to agree with 
the Republican point of view 
more than the Democratic 
point of view, he said.
Kevin Apolo, a ?rst-year 
mechanical engineering major wearing a button supporting Obama, cited the Presidents policies toward college 
students as a reason for voting 
for him. I probably wouldnt 
be in college because of the 
loans that I had to pay later 
on if it wasnt for some of the 
things he implemented, Apolo said.
Despite clashing ideologies, students who attended 
the event shared a common 
desire for future hope. Firstyear mechanical engineering major Connor Livingston 
summed up the attitude of 
the event when he said that 
no matter who won, America 
will win.
ELECTION, from A1

---------------------------------------------------

A4  thetartan.org/scitech The Tartan  November 12, 2012
JENNIFER GOLDA
Staffwriter
According to the Kenya 
Medical Research Institute, 
malaria is the leading cause 
of death in Kenya, as well as in 
many other East African countries. Luckily, a new technique 
that uses cell phone data 
to track the movement of a 
population has made a breakthrough in medical research, 
and the new method will 
be able to assist in the ?ght 
against this deadly disease.
Amy Wesolowski, a Carnegie Mellon Ph.D. student in 
engineering and public policy, 
is a co-author of the paper 
Quantifying the Impact of 
Human Mobility on Malaria, 
which was published in the 
journal Science. The study followed the movement of 15 
million Kenyans over a year.
Understanding human mobility and the mosquito-transmitted diseases hot spots is 
critical to disease intervention. When a disease-carrying 
mosquito takes blood, its saliva often leaves behind the 
malaria parasite. But just as a 
mosquito can give the disease 
to humans, it is equally important to understand the implications of an infected human 
transmitting the disease to a 
healthy mosquito.
Its a deadly cycle, and because humans travel much 
farther than the one-kilometer 
radius to which a mosquito 
usually keeps, humanitys role 
in carrying and spreading the 
disease is more far-reaching 
than the insects.
But while mosquito populations and a regions malaria 
density might be well-known 
factors in the disease transmission equation, the human factor is not. Out of the copious 
past studies on malaria, very 
few have gathered information on the topic.
Caroline Buckee, an assistant professor of epidemiology at Harvard University and 
the papers senior author, told 
CNN, This is the ?rst time 
that such a massive amount of 
cell phone data  from millions of individuals over the 
course of a year  has been 
used, together with detailed 
infectious disease data, to 
measure human mobility and 
understand how a disease is 
spreading.
This big data allowed the 
research team to create a highresolution vector map of human motion throughout the 
East African country. A vector 
includes both quantity and 
direction, and can visually 
describe the journey between 
malaria source settlements 
(malaria-infested regions) and 
sink settlements (regions 
where the disease is less prevalent).
These vectors reveal that, 
as expected, the highest percentage of human travel is 
to and from the capital, Nairobi. But this travel network 
did not overlap that of the 
parasites, indicating that the 
city-to-countryside travel has 
a minimal role in spreading 
the disease. Instead, the overlap of human movement and 
parasite movement vectors occurred mostly within the highrisk regions themselves.
The team found that the 
highest-risk areas are around 
Lake Victoria and coastal regions; the rural and humid 
environment supports more 
mosquitoes than do the megacitys streets.
This isnt to say that large 
cities are safe from disease; 
the problem of disease prevention is complicated. Governments and other organizations have often concentrated 
malaria control efforts in lowinfection regions [like cities], Wesolowski explained 
in a university press release. 
Those initiatives cost less 
and provide sense of accomplishment, but ultimately may 
not be successful because, in 
those areas, there are many 
travelers from high-infection 
areas. 
The research revealed that 
the root of spreading malaria 
is not where there is the most 
human-to-human interaction, 
but where there is the largest 
mosquito-to-human interaction. Focusing control practices in these regions and providing cautionary advice and 
education to those who travel 
between them the most could 
reduce the disease spread by 
the mobile human population.
According to the researchers, doing so would decrease 
malaria prevalence in a more 
permanent and meaningful 
way than current methods can 
accomplish.
Beyond malaria prevention efforts, this new method 
of research can be applied to 
any situation where human 
mobility is a factor. But while 
this type of cell phone tracking research answers many 
questions about the spread 
of disease, it also raises many 
questions about the future of 
privacy.
In a comment to ABC News, 
William Schaffner, professor 
and chairman of the department of preventive medicine 
at Vanderbilt University, said, 
I suspect that some people 
will get antsy about Big Brother following you. Im more excited about the possibilities to 
prevent serious disease.
Researchers use cell phone data to track down malaria
BROOKE KUEI
Staffwriter
String theory is an idea 
in particle physics that endeavors to reconcile quantum 
mechanics and general relativity. It uses the concept that 
elementary particles, such 
as quarks and electrons, are 
not dimensionless points, but 
rather one-dimensional oscillating strings. String theory 
could be a physicists dream 
 a uni?ed theory of everything  but it requires extra 
dimensions. So, how many 
dimensions are there?
Rob Bryantons book and 
video, both called Imagining 
the Tenth Dimension, explore 
a way of looking at space and 
time to include extra dimensions.
To illustrate this point, 
imagine a dot on a piece of 
paper. This is the zeroth dimension.
The ?rst dimension is a line 
connecting any two points. It 
has no width or depth  only 
length. We create the second 
dimension when we draw a 
second line that branches off 
from or crosses the ?rst. The 
second dimension has both 
length and width.
Imagine a world that only 
has two dimensions. Now 
imagine two-dimensional creatures like those on a playing 
card; we will call them Flatlanders, a term originally 
coined by author Edwin Abbott. When Flatlanders look 
at three-dimensional objects, 
they perceive them as twodimensional cross sections 
of these objects. A ball, for 
example, would look like a 
circle.
The third dimension is 
the one in which we live. A 
three-dimensional object has 
length, width, and height. 
The third dimension is what 
we fold through to get from 
one point to another in the 
second dimension.
To illustrate the concept of 
folding, Bryanton describes 
a Flatlander that is walking on the edge of a piece of 
paper. If the piece of paper 
is rolled into a cylinder, the 
edge that the Flatlander was 
on touches the opposite edge 
of the paper, teleporting the 
Flatlander to the other side 
of paper if it were to be unfolded again.
The fourth dimension is 
time. In other words, the line 
drawn from the event of your 
birth to the event of you reading this article would be a 
line in the fourth dimension. 
If you were to imagine your 
body in the fourth dimension, you would see multiple 
versions of yourself, starting 
from you as a baby to you as 
an adolescent to you as you 
currently exist. However, 
just like how the Flatlanders 
perceive three-dimensional 
objects as their two dimensional cross sections, we only 
see one version of ourselves 
because we live in the third 
dimension.
The ?fth dimension includes not only the line from 
your birth to your present 
self, but also the in?nite lines 
branching from your birth to 
all possible versions of your 
present self. Remember how 
the two-dimensional piece of 
paper was folded so the Flatlander could travel from one 
point to another? If you fold 
the fourth dimension through 
the ?fth, you can travel back 
in time.
There are two ways to get 
to a different point in the ?fth 
dimension, or an alternate 
version of yourself: One way 
is to travel back in time and 
trigger the events and decisions that lead to that reality; the other way is to fold 
the ?fth dimension through 
the sixth dimension (using 
Bryantons rolled paper analogy again) to travel from one 
point to another in the ?fth 
dimension.
As we enter the seventh 
dimension, we must imagine 
a line that treats the entire 
sixth dimension as if it were 
a mere point. In other words, 
we take the beginning of our 
universe and extend from it 
branches that represent all 
possible timelines and all possible endings for the universe 
 in essence, the concept of 
in?nity  and treat this all as 
one point.
If we changed the initial 
conditions of the universe and 
used this different universe as 
the starting point, and if we 
extended from it different 
branches for all possible timelines that could have resulted 
from this universe and treat 
that as a single point, we now 
have a second in?nity point 
that we can draw a line to. 
To draw a line in the seventh 
dimension, we then connect 
these two in?nity points.
If we branch off this line 
and draw a line to yet another in?nity, we are now in 
the eighth dimension. Once 
again, to travel from one 
point to another in the eight 
dimension, one must fold it 
through the ninth dimension.
Finally, the 10th dimension is a single point that 
represents all the possible 
branches of every possible 
timeline of all the potential 
universes. But what other 
point can we then connect 
this to? According to Bryanton, it appears that there is 
nothing left.
To recall string theory, 
superstrings vibrating in the 
10th dimension are what create the subatomic particles 
that make up not only our 
universe, but all universes. 
This is why string theory is a 
candidate theory of everything: all possibilities are 
contained in the 10th dimension.
Beyond the three-dimensional world
Courtesy of Ute Frevert and Margaret Shear via Wikimedia Commons
Ph.D. student Amy Wesolowski tracked the movement of Kenyans using cell phones to map the spread of 
malaria throughout the East African country. Above is an electron micrograph of a malarial sporozoite inside a 
mosquito.
Compound in red wine could ?ght prostate cancer
Resveratrol, a compound 
found in grape skins and red 
wine, may make prostate cancer cells more susceptible to 
radiation treatment. When 
Michael Nicholl, an assistant 
professor of surgical oncology 
at the University of Missouri 
School of Medicine, introduced resveratrol to prostate 
cancer cells, it increased the 
activity of two proteins that 
work together to kill cancer 
cells. Following radiation 
treatment, up to 97 percent 
of the cancer cells had been 
killed, which is a much higher 
percentage than usual.
A glass of red wine wont 
kill cancer, though  the dosage of resveratrol necessary to 
yield these results is so large, 
current attempts to ingest that 
much resveratrol would result 
in uncomfortable side effects. 
Nicholl said a more effective 
delivery method will need to 
be developed.
Source: Science Daily
Farming reaches new heights with vertical farms
The sky is the limit with 
the opening of Singapores 
?rst commercial vertical farm. 
Entrepreneur Jack Ng has already sold half a ton of his Sky 
Greens bok choy and Chinese 
cabbage, which grow indoors 
inside 120 slender, 30-foot 
towers. The aluminum towers 
are in the shape of an A-frame, 
with trays of vegetables 
stacked inside them; a belt 
rotates the trays so that all the 
vegetables are able to receive 
equal amounts of sunlight, 
air?ow, and irrigation.
Advocates of vertical farming say that it is an ef?cient, 
economical way to grow fresh 
produce in urban environments. Some agricultural scientists argue, however, that 
the limited amount of sunlight the plants receive will 
make them grow more slowly, 
offsetting any other advantages in ef?ciency that vertical 
farming might offer.
Source: NPR
SCITECH BRIEFS
Engineered fabric may help prevent fashion fraud
A new type of thread with 
properties invisible to the naked eye may be used to end 
designer knockoffs. Christian 
Mller at Chalmers University of Technology in Gothenburg, Sweden, made a semitransparent thread that has 
certain optical properties, 
allowing only particular polarizations to pass through. 
When the threads are woven 
together, they create a fabric 
that looks purple to the naked eye, but reveals purple 
and pink patterns under polarized light.
Mller believes the thread 
could be used to create logos  
to place on items to thwart 
knockoff attempts. He is also 
hoping to develop threads for 
electronically enhanced textiles that would allow clothes 
to change color via electric 
charge.
Source: New Scientist
ADHD medicine affects the brains reward system
Scientists at the University of Copenhagen have been 
studying the way the brain 
processes risk versus reward. 
The research, based on a new 
mathematical model of the 
part of the brain that registers 
reward and punishment, indicates that ADHD drugs lessen 
the signals regarding expected 
punishment or consequence.
Drugs like Ritalin contain 
dopamine, a chemical found 
in the brain that scientists believe motivates us to repeat 
actions that have previously 
been associated with reward. 
The researchers were able 
to calculate the effects that 
different dosages of Ritalin 
would have on the brains reward system.
Source: Science Daily and 
www.medicalnewstoday.com
Compiled By
ANNA WALSH
HOW THINGS WORK
 Adelaide Cole/Art Editor and Michael Setzer/Acting SciTech Editor
A character that lived in the second dimension, like a playing card, would view a three-dimensional object, like a ball, as a circle.

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

Office: University Center 314
Phone: (412) 268-2111
Fax: (412) 268-1596
Web: www.thetartan.org
E-mail: contact@thetartan.org
Mail:
The Tartan
Box 119, UC Suite 103 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
CHRISTA HESTER *
Publisher
EMILY DOBLER *
Editor-in-Chief
JOSH SMITH 
Forum Editor 
EVAN KAHN
Copy Manager
JACKSON LANE
Senior Staffwriter
ANNA WALSH *
Personnel Manager
BRENT HEARD
Asst. News Editor
Editorial Staff
 2012 The Tartan, all rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN: 0890-3107
The Tartan is a student newspaper at Carnegie Mellon University, funded in part by the student 
activities fee. It is a weekly publication by students during the fall and spring semesters, printed 
by Trib Total Media. The Tartan is not an official publication of Carnegie Mellon University. The 
first issue is free; subsequent issues cost $0.50 at the discretion of The Tartan. Subscriptions are 
available on a per semester basis.
The Editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The 
Tartan Editorial Board. Columns, Editorial Cartoons, and Reviews are the opinions of their 
individual creators. The Tartan Editorial Staff reserves the right to withhold from publication 
any copy it deems unfit.
Letters to the Editor are the opinions of their authors. Letters from within the University community take precedence. Letters intended for publication must be signed and include the authors 
address and telephone number for verification; letters must not exceed 350 words. Authors names 
may be withheld from publication upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject 
any letter. Letters must be submitted by 5 p.m. on the Wednesday before publication by mail or to 
forum@thetartan.org.
StaffEditorial Board
FROM THE EDITORIAL BOARD
SENIOR STAFF 
Stephanie Blotner, Stacey Chin, Greg 
Hanneman, Alan Vangpat
LAYOUT
Chloe Chia, Abby Smith, Edward Wojciechowski 
COPY
Swathi Anand, Manali Banerjee, Sawsan 
Boutemine, Kairavi Chahal, Connie Chan, 
Nivedita Chopra, Braden Kelner, Sage Po, 
Taylor Rawley, Stephanie Stern, Julia Yang
ADVERTISING
Grace Chung, Seo Young Hwang
A6  thetartan.org/forum The Tartan  November 12, 2012
Over the years, Carnegie Mellon 
students have been perceived as being apathetic about political issues. 
But students de?ed that stereotype 
this election season with a great oncampus voter turnout and active engagement in the elections.
Not only did many students and 
members of student government get 
involved during the campaign season by tabling and helping fellow 
classmates register to vote, but students also actively engaged in voting 
on campus at the University Centers 
Alumni Lounge. Many students also 
attended the Elections Result Watch 
Party hosted by Student Body President Will Weiner, Vice President 
Meela Dudley, and Activities Board 
Political Speakers.
According to Allegheny Countys Elections Division, the Alumni 
Lounge polling place on campus 
(Pittsburgh Ward 14, District 7) 
had 3,269 registered voters, with 
44.2 percent of those voters casting 
ballots. 
After the Oakland-Soho and 
Lower Hills districts, Carnegie Mellon had the third-highest number of 
registered voters in Allegheny County, and thats not including students 
who live off campus and voted off 
campus.
We were heartened to see students take the time out of their day 
to cast their votes in this presidential 
election.
After votes were cast, students 
continued to follow the election 
through the Elections Result Watch 
Party. Rangos Hall was fairly packed 
throughout the night, with students 
congregating around tables, trying 
to do homework while anxiously 
watching election news coverage. 
Although there were some technical dif?culties near the beginning of 
the event, the party helped foster a 
deeper sense of community among 
students and actively engaged them 
through political trivia and prize 
giveaways.
The gathering made the elections 
a community event.
When presented with the opportunity, students showed a willingness to come together despite 
homework, tests, and projects to participate in this nationwide display of 
democracy. This election season has 
made us proud to be Carnegie Mellon students.
Election Day was a landmark for gay rights in U.S.
Students disprove political apathy with voter turnout
Responsible people should handle schools ?nances
Josh Smith/Forum Editor
Climate change cannot be ignored after Sandy
JUSTIN McGOWN
Cutting to the heart the of matter, The Onion makes me cry.
In the wake of Hurricane Sandy, which ravaged a large part of 
the Northeast with particularly 
bad damage in New Jersey and my 
coastal Connecticut hometown, The 
Onion managed to release a couple 
of darkly humorous pieces.
The Onion recently ran these two 
pieces with headlines: Nation Suddenly Realizes This Just Going To Be 
A Thing That Happens From Now 
On and Report: Only Way Nation Will Pay Attention To Climate 
Change Is If Julia Roberts Dies In 
Hurricane. While funny as usual, 
they also managed to be horrifying.
The U.S. has been suffering from 
a debilitating drought this past year, 
and has just now weathered a storm 
that has done unprecedented damage in the areas affected. Parts of 
New York City were without power 
for days, and entire neighborhoods 
were wiped away. Power is still 
something to be envied throughout 
much of the region: My neighbors 
were hosting friends lacking power 
earlier this week.
We will recover from this storm, 
much faster and effectively than 
from Katrina, it seems. But one 
needs to consider why so many natural disasters are befalling us, and 
to whom should we turn to answer 
these questions.
The National Aeronautics and 
Space Administration and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, the two organizations 
of the U.S. government most quali?ed to speak on the matter, both say 
that global warming  or climate 
change, as its now called  is very 
real, and that the existence of the 
greenhouse effect is an indisputable 
fact. 
Yet somehow, we wont listen 
to scientists on the government 
payroll, and instead continue our 
inaction to save not only the world 
around us, but also ourselves.
Among environmentalists such 
as Bill Mckibben, theres an attitude 
that its already too late, that these 
storms are a fact of life now. As ?ctional people interviewed by The 
Onion said, well have to get used 
to seeing American cities ?ooded 
and American homes destroyed on a 
regular basis.
Theres no reason for this. We 
know the primary cause is greenhouse gases, and nobody is arguing 
for more dependence on petroleum, 
but many of us continue to live as 
though nothing has changed. What 
will it take to make us realize our 
continued inaction is in direct opposition to our long-term existence?
Mitt Romney, the recently defeated Republican candidate for the 
presidency, is on record as a believer 
of climate change. Politics dictated 
that he not advertise that fact during his bid for the Oval Of?ce, but 
you have to see the hypocrisy in 
claiming to want future generations 
of Americans to be unburdened by 
debt while at the same time turning ones head to what threatens to 
drown them  in a much more literal manner. 
I only hope that President Barack 
Obama, now with another four 
years, will be willing to take strong 
measures to combat the causes of 
climate change, particularly with 
the in?uence of the fossil fuel lobbyists.
I am taking the damage done to 
my hometown and the Northeast 
as a call to action. I intend to take 
active measures to reduce my carbon footprint, and to help advocate 
against the use of fossil fuels. While 
their use is necessary in some instances, we should do everything in 
our power to limit their use.
Just remember, the Geological 
Society of London and other experts 
in the ?eld of geology are contemplating designating our current time 
period in geological history as the 
anthropocene since human-driven 
factors, such as the shift in weather, 
are the de?ning aspect of this part 
of the rock record. Millions of years 
from now, they will know what we 
did. Lets do more to ensure our descendants are able to see the point 
in history when we started improving things.
Justin McGown (jmcgown@) is online editor for The Tartan.
* Denotes executive committee member
JENNIFER COLOMA *
Operations Manager
MADELYN GLYMOUR
News Editor
MICHAEL SETZER
Acting SciTech Editor
ALEX TAPAK
Sports Co-Editor
ADAM GRUBER
Sports Co-Editor
RACHEL COHEN
Pillbox Editor
NICOLE HAMILTON
Comics Editor
JONATHAN CARREON
Photo Editor
ADELAIDE COLE
Art Editor
ALEX CRICHTON
Systems Manager
KATHY CHEN
Advertising Manager
KENNETH WONG
Business Manager
JUSTIN MCGOWN
Online Editor
NOL UM
Asst. News Editor
ABBY SMITH
Asst. Sports Editor
LAURA SCHERB
Asst. Pillbox Editor
KELLY HARRINGTON
Asst. Systems Manager
BONITA LEUNG
Asst. Copy Manager
HANNAH DELLABELLA
Asst. Copy Manager
CHLOE THOMPSON
Asst. Personnel Manager
ALLISON COSBY *
Staffwriter
Adelaide Cole/Art Editor
Although news about the election 
has been predominantly focused on 
the presidential race, there were also 
a number of historically signi?cant 
referendums that were passed at the 
state level across the country.
Last Tuesday was a particularly 
victorious night for LGBT rights. 
Wisconsin, Maryland, and Maine all 
became the ?rst states to approve 
same-sex marriage by popular vote; 
a proposed constitutional amendment in Minnesota to ban same-sex 
marriage was defeated; and Wisconsin Congresswoman Tammy Baldwin 
became the ?rst openly gay person 
elected to the U.S. Senate.
The election represents a watershed moment for gay rights in America, and a step forward for human 
rights. Approving same-sex marriage 
will give rights to couples who would 
otherwise be denied them. And Baldwins election gives hope that in the 
not-so-distant future, a persons sexual orientation will be a non-issue 
for political candidates running for 
of?ce.
But theres unfortunately still 
plenty of work to be done. There are 
32 states that currently ban gay marriage  Pennsylvania doesnt even 
recognize domestic partnerships or 
civil unions, let alone same-sex marriages. Furthermore, Pennsylvania 
Senator Pat Toomey voted to amend 
the U.S. Constitution to ban samesex marriage. 
By refusing to grant gay couples 
the same recognition and rights as 
heterosexual couples, these laws 
treat gay couples as second-class 
citizens and make them more susceptible to other kinds of discrimination, such as being prohibited from 
adopting.
Hopefully, this election will become a historic tipping point in the 
right direction for gay rights. We 
hope that the progress in last weeks 
election will build more positive momentum, so that by 2014, even more 
states will follow Wisconsin, Maryland, and Maines lead.
Marco Antonio Delgado, former Carnegie Mellon trustee, was 
arrested last Friday on charges of 
conspiracy to commit money laundering, according to the Pittsburgh 
Post-Gazette. 
Delgado was accused of aiding a 
Mexican drug cartel in laundering 
$600 million. On Thursday, Delgado 
pleaded not guilty. If convicted, he 
could serve up to 20 years in prison, 
according to CNN.
Although Delgado pleads not 
guilty and the case has yet to go to 
court, it is troubling that there have 
been multiple incidents in which notable people associated with Carnegie Mellon have been accused of 
?nancial foul play.
In 2009, Carnegie Mellon invested in Westridge Capital Management, Inc., the general partners 
of whom were charged with money 
laundering, fraud, and conspiracy, 
according to Bloomberg. Paul Greenwood and Steven Walsh were accused of using WG Trading Investors 
to buy homes, cars, horses, and collectible teddy bears.
Tuition at Carnegie Mellon is immensely expensive, and it increases 
every year. Students voted to raise 
the activities fee for undergraduate 
students in order to support student 
organizations and activities. It often seems that the Carnegie Mellon 
administration is largely focused on 
fundraising efforts. With this focus, 
though, we need the people who 
handle Carnegie Mellons ?scal responsibilities to remain uninvolved 
in such scandals.
When so much is expected of the 
students and faculty of Carnegie 
Mellon, both academically and ?-
nancially, it is disheartening to see 
our Board of Trustees facing multiple allegations of possible ?scal 
malpractice.
Greater efforts must be made by 
the Board of Trustees to ensure that 
the future of Carnegie Mellon is in 
safe hands. In order to continue to 
excel as an academic institution, we 
need a guarantee that our ?nances, 
and the hands that manage them, 
are clean.

---------------------------------------------------

A PERSONS OPINION
Compiled by Jennifer Coloma
This month is often referred to as No Shave November and, more recently, Movember. So we asked,
What is your opinion on facial hair?
LUKE MASA
Remember, remember, the ?fth of 
Movember... Wait, thats not how the 
rhyme goes. It seems that few people 
have heard of the cause being championed by many men this month, but 
luckily, its starting to catch on. 
The premise is pretty basic: Begin 
clean-shaven on Nov. 1, and grow 
out your mustache in order to raise 
awareness for mens health issues, 
such as pancreatic and testicular cancer. No other facial hair besides the 
mustache is acceptable.
This is in stark contrast to the 
more popular No Shave November, 
wherein guys compete to see who can 
grow out the most hobo-like beard in 
a shameless, albeit good-humored, 
display of laziness.
So is Movember an effective campaign? Its hard to put aside the fact 
that awareness months of all types 
have come under ?re in recent years 
for doing more to tell us what we 
already know, instead of actually 
offering tangible and constructive 
solutions. Even as a participant in 
Movember, I had not even heard of it 
until a week before it began this year.
I used to have a passable beard, 
but now whenever people see me, 
I inevitably hear, Hey, isnt it No 
Shave November? I calmly explain 
that theres also this thing called Movember; its for mens health issues, 
and comedian and Parks and Recreation star Nick Offerman has an informative video about it.
I suppose, in a sense, that I am 
raising awareness for  if not necessarily prostate and testicular cancer 
 an event centered on the diseases. 
But Ill admit that I could probably 
be doing more than simply growing 
out a mustache for a month to raise 
awareness for mens health. I just 
have no clue what that is. Frankly, 
when December rolls around, Ill likely go back to rocking the full beard in 
order to keep my face warm during 
the winter, even if it means looking 
like Zach Gali?anakis.
I really have no response to those 
who call for me to take action rather 
than merely spread the word. Except, 
in this instance, I think people clearly 
are unaware that mens health issues demand just as much concern as 
womens do. 
This may seem slightly off-putting 
 even sexist at ?rst  but equality 
works both ways. I know men have 
always had it easier than women 
throughout history, but nowadays it 
seems like you cant even talk about 
how something might affect men 
negatively without raising all kinds 
of ire.
While guys can certainly man up 
and wear pink in October for Breast 
Cancer Awareness Month, its a 
slightly taller order for most women 
to sport a mustache in November  
although false ones could be appropriate substitutes.
Ultimately, Im happy with my 
decision to go the Movember route 
instead of No Shave. It piques peoples interest and gets them thinking, 
which is better than leaving them 
ignorant  a sure?re way to get nowhere. The novelty alone is enough 
to make an impression.
At the end of the day, if nothing 
else, you can grow out your mustache  or wear a falsie if youre one 
of the many people who just cant 
 in order to stand in support of a 
family member, friend, classmate, 
or the countless strangers who have 
struggled with and fought against 
cancer and other diseases. 
Who knows, maybe a little facial 
hair will go (or grow) a long way.
Luke Masa (lmasa@) is a staffwriter 
for The Tartan.
November 12, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/forum  A7
I mustache you a question: Does Movember raise awareness?
Tammy Ying/Junior Artist
Politicians should ?nd compromise
WILLIAM PARK
Junior Staffwriter
Cameras caught President Barack 
Obamas supporters dancing into the 
early morning in Chicago, following 
his re-election. For one night, Obama 
was no longer the divisive and indecisive leader. He was the hero who 
was ready for his second act. The 
cameras failed to record, to the same 
extent, the bitter Republicans on 
the other side of a divide that has 
become increasingly evident. How 
these two sides come together will 
have a signi?cant impact on how 
Obama continues the goals from his 
?rst term.
An immediate test of bipartisan dialogue is the ?scal cliff, the 
nearly $700 billion in combined tax 
increases and spending cuts set to 
begin next year. Following the election, Republican House Speaker 
John Boehner voiced his willingness 
to negotiate with Obama as long as 
tax rates remain untouched. Obama, 
however, has campaigned on his desire to raise taxes on the wealthy.
One side has to give. While reforming and simplifying the tax code 
is necessary, Americans seem to 
support higher taxes. Tuesdays exit 
polls revealed that 60 percent of voters support tax increases.
Obamas re-election was also 
a victory for his prized healthcare 
legislation, the Affordable Care Act, 
often referred to as Obamacare. Republicans hopes of repealing all or 
parts of Obamacare took a sobering 
hit with former Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romneys 
defeat and the Democrats retaining 
the majority in the House of Representatives. 
Thus, 2014 will likely see the introduction of the individual mandate 
requiring most Americans to purchase health insurance and con?rming the expansion of Medicaid.
Since Obamas second-term economic policy will require signi?cant 
patience to implement, I see him 
tackling social issues in the meantime. With referendums passing gay 
marriage in Maine, Maryland, and 
Washington, the movement to legalize same-sex marriage seems to be 
gaining momentum. 
But even with Obamas of?cial 
support for gay marriage, legalizing 
it nationwide faces long odds. As of 
now, 31 states, mostly in the South, 
have constitutional amendments 
that ban gay marriage.
Another social issue that will 
challenge Obama lies in immigration 
reform. During his ?rst term, his failure to introduce an immigration bill 
was due to the troubling economy 
and Republican intransigence. This 
time, he has no excuse. Motivated by 
their lack of support from the Latino 
and Hispanic community  which 
voted for Obama over Romney 71 
percent to 27 percent, according to 
CNN  Republicans will be willing 
to cooperate on immigration. Any 
bill will likely focus on strengthening 
borders and offering paths to citizenship for hard-working and educated 
foreigners.
This brings us to the Republican 
Party. If this election revealed anything, it was that the demographics 
of this country and American values 
are changing. Republicans need to 
reach out to the growing community of young Americans, women, 
and Latinos by changing their stance 
on abortion and gay marriage. This 
is the 21st century, and Americans 
progressive social morals should be 
re?ected in Republican politics.
When it comes to the presidential election, America made the 
safe choice. The rate of economic 
recovery has been underwhelming 
and serious considerations must be 
taken into the excessive spending in 
demanding programs such as Social 
Security and Medicare. However, the 
changes presented by Romney and 
his running mate Paul Ryan were too 
extreme and too soon.
The ambitious promises Obama 
made four years ago will not be realized, but that doesnt mean his policies have failed. The housing market 
is slowly recovering, and the unemployment rate is at its lowest since 
he took of?ce in 2008. Ultimately, 
though, itll take great compromise 
from both sides of the aisle to achieve 
true progress for the country.
Tragedy at zoo signals need for safety reform
KAVITA MEHTA
Junior Staffwriter
Maddox Derkosh, a two-year-old 
toddler, passed away at the Pittsburgh Zoo last Sunday after falling 
into the African painted dogs exhibit, where he was mauled while 
his helpless mother watched from 
above.
Some people were quick to 
blame this tragic event on the zoo or 
Derkoshs mother; however, neither 
of those statements are true. One 
party cannot fully be blamed for this 
heartbreaking incident because it 
happened in a matter of seconds and 
was de?nitely not intentional.
The open side of the exhibits 
viewing deck has a railing slanted 
45 degrees toward the edge of the 
deck and protective netting about 
four feet further down to prevent 
small objects from falling into the 
exhibit. These structures are meant 
to balance visitors ability to enjoy 
the exhibit and also ensure their 
safety.
Within the blink of an eye, 
Derkosh somehow fell out of his 
mothers grip toward the security 
net, on which he bounced twice before falling into the African painted 
dogs exhibit, according to CBS 
Pittsburgh. 
Even though the zoo successfully completed its ?ve-year review 
in September, the exhibits railing 
was clearly not sturdy enough, or 
else Derkosh probably would not 
have fallen off it. Still, the zoo cannot completely be blamed for this 
tragic event, as almost every zoo has 
this type of exhibit set up in order to 
provide visitors a better view of the 
animals.
Unfortunately, it is nearly impossible to construct a foolproof 
exhibit; making zoos especially safe 
for small children is a dif?cult goal. 
But this is the Pittsburgh Zoos ?rst 
instance in which a visitors life was 
lost since it ?rst opened in 1898, 
showing how rare and unexpected 
these kind of incidents really are.
Despite many other visitors tendencies to lift their young children 
above the railing, the Derkosh family should not have followed suit 
and put the child in danger. However, one still cannot truly blame 
Derkoshs mother for this accident. 
This mother, who is already distressed about her youngest sons 
unforgettable death, does not need 
more stress on her shoulders by 
some members of society accusing 
her of something for which she solely to blame.
The closest staff member was 
only 10 feet away from the attack 
and immediately went into emergency response mode by attempting 
to lure the dogs away from Derkosh, 
as it was too dangerous for them to 
enter the exhibit. Unfortunately, 
four of these dogs were not easily 
called away from Derkosh. Instead, 
a keeper should have thrown real 
food into the exhibit to give those 
remaining dogs an extra incentive to 
leave Derkosh.
Even though the speci?c details 
about Derkoshs fall are unclear, 
neither the Pittsburgh Zoo nor 
Derkoshs mother can individually be blamed for this devastating 
event. One party alone is not responsible for this tragedy. Multiple 
factors were at play in this horrible 
accident, and hopefully the Pittsburgh Zoo and its visitors can make 
the necessary reforms to ensure 
such accidents dont happen again.
Peter Lim
Psychology
Junior
I dont really like it on anybody.
Dixon Liang
Business Administration
Sophomore
I personally dont like it.
Jacob Pierri
Mathematics
First-year
You should not do it.
Mar Mercado
Undeclared
Sophomore
Its a little bit weird, but not a 
deal breaker.
Elise Everett
Computer Science
Sophomore
I have no particular preference 
either way.
Josh Smith/Forum Editor
Neither the 
Pittsburgh Zoo nor 
Derkoshs mother 
can individually 
be blamed for this 
devastating event.

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

November 12, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/news  A9
Swimming and diving coast to 
a victory against Grove City
ALEX TAPAK
Sports Co-Editor
The mens and womens 
swimming and diving teams 
hosted their second home 
dual meet of the season.
This week, they faced a 
non-conference rival, Grove 
City College, which competes 
in the Presidents Athletic 
Conference.
Both Tartan teams were 
victorious, with the men winning 19197 and the women 
winning 178119.
The mens swimming and 
diving team added another 
victory to its so far undefeated season, winning this one 
by a large margin. The Tartan powerhouse was led by 
sophomores Anton Razanav 
and Cole Um, as well as junior Edward Sears, as they 
each placed ?rst in two events 
of their respective specialty 
stroke.
The Tartans also saw 
strong, ?rst-place freestyle 
?nishes from ?rst-years Steven Geier in the 1,000-yard 
freestyle, Martin Smith in the 
500-yard freestyle, and Christopher Wysocki in the 100-
yard freestyle.
Razanav won the 100-
yard and 200-yard backstrokes with times of 53.78 
and 1:57.44, respectively. Um 
was the ?rst to ?nish in the 
100-yard breaststroke, with 
a time of 1:00.32, and in the 
200-yard breaststroke with a 
time of 2:11.57. Sears ?nished 
the 50-yard and 100-yard 
freestyle with season bests of 
21.79 and 48.07, respectively.
After a loss against Clarion University, the womens swimming and diving 
bounced back by defeating 
Grove City.
Now that were getting 
into the swing of our dual 
meet season, we keep getting 
better and better and I think 
that wide range of talents and 
specialties on our team is one 
of our greatest strengths, 
?rst-year Corrine Bacigal 
said.
Standout junior Soliel 
Phan won three events in this 
weekends meet. Phan placed 
?rst in the 200-yard freestyle 
with a time of 1:55.59, and 
the 100-yard freestyle with a 
time of 54.05. Phan proved 
her all-around strength by 
placing ?rst in the 200-yard 
relay medley with a time of 
2:12.40.
Mens and womens swimming and diving teams will 
jump back into competition 
hosting their annual quad 
meet.
The diving team will compete Friday at 6 p.m., while 
the swim team will compete 
Saturday at 11:30 a.m.
The Tartans will face 
Washington & Lee University, 
Allegheny College, and the 
University of Rochester at the 
annual quad meet.
Jonathan Leung/Staff Photographer
First-year Joey Robinson placed third in the 1,000-yard freestyle with a time of 10:25.49.
SPORTS COMMENTARY
NHL lockout nixes the Winter Classic
CARL GLAZER
Staffwriter
As the National Hockey 
League (NHL) lockout approaches its second month, 
the casualties mount: 326 
games and the Winter Classic have been cancelled. But 
the negative effects on both 
the league and the sport are 
more than just lost games and 
paychecks. The tide of public opinion is quickly turning 
from disdain to apathy, and 
with it go the hopes of the 
NHL coming out of this debacle unscathed.
Talks between the players union and the owners 
recently passed a milestone 
when they met for three consecutive days for the second 
time. But the fact that it was 
a notable achievement for the 
two parties to simply negotiate is a testament to the futility of these talks. The owners 
have been attempting to stiffarm the players into accepting 
their terms while completely 
dismissing their attempts at 
compromise.
The owners main complaint is the distribution of 
revenue between players and 
owners. Under the old agreement, players received 57 percent of the revenues. This was 
dictated by the salary cap and 
the minimum total player salaries each team was required 
to have. The owners now want 
a larger share of the revenues, 
pushing for a 5050 split.
While the players have accepted this as inevitable and 
have conceded to the split, 
there is still the problem of 
how current contracts, signed 
under the previous revenuesharing agreement, will be 
handled in the future. The 
players want to hold the owners to their agreements and 
have the revenue-sharing 
slowly scale down from 57 
percent with new contracts 
being signed under the new 
5050 policy.
The owners want a system 
that starts at 50 percent sharing immediately and ful?lls 
the players extra payment by 
having several years of under 
50 percent on the backend. 
The players have obviously 
balked at this offer because 
it essentially translates to 
the players paying back players, as opposed to the owners 
being consistent with prior 
years contracts.
Aside from this major sticking point, the owners are trying to reign back many of the 
concessions they made during 
the last collective bargaining 
agreement (CBA) during the 
200405 lockout that erased 
an entire season. During that 
last CBA, there was no ?rm 
contract limit, allowing some 
teams to sign players to ridiculously long contracts, like the 
matching 13-year deals signed 
by players Zach Parise and 
Ryan Suter with the Minnesota Wild. The point of these 
contracts is to spread the 
money of the deals over more 
years than the player will actually be valuable to the team, 
thus decreasing the cap hit for 
each individual season.
The Wilds owner, Craig 
Leipold, did not do the owners any favors by commenting 
in the Star Tribune after he 
signed the top two free agents 
for $98 million each: Were 
not making money, and thats 
one reason we need to ?x our 
system. We need to ?x how 
much were spending right 
now.
Many Eastern European 
and Russian-born players 
have moved over to play in the 
Kontinental Hockey League, 
which is based mainly in Russia, while many of the American and Canadian born players have begun playing for 
Western European and minor 
American-based leagues.
With the say of public 
opinion ?rmly against them 
and the players ?nding plenty 
of opportunities to work, the 
owners hardline strategy is 
failing. Thankfully, the owners are starting to realize this, 
and are now negotiating with 
the players, but the parties 
still are not close to a solution.
Pitching dominates against St. Francis
GABRIELLE WEST
Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellons Club 
Baseball team took on St. 
Francis University in a double-header this weekend, 
with both games resulting in 
victories for the Tartans.
The ?nal score of the ?rst 
game was 63 due to strong 
defense and outstanding 
pitching. First-year pitcher 
Darren Kerfoot pitched a 
gem on the mound with eight 
strikeouts, contributing to his 
great ?rst season.
Senior shortstop Wade 
Brogdon scored twice, while 
sophomore out?elder Brian 
Saravia sparked the offense 
in the ?fth inning when he 
brought in two runs off a double. Junior out?elder Alex 
Golemb scored his ?rst two 
hits and made an impressive 
catch on the run in the right 
?eld before leaving the game 
due to a hamstring injury.
The second game that 
the Tartans played against 
St. Francis also ended in a 
Carnegie Mellon victory, 
30. Junior pitcher Brendan 
MacNabb pitched an almost 
perfect game  he allowed 
just one hit. MacNabb also 
helped save a run: A St. Francis batter hit a line drive with 
a man on third base in the 
second inning, and MacNabb 
snagged it out of the air.
Kerfoot also singled and 
scored the only necessary run 
for the Tartans in the second 
inning, while two runs were 
scored in the bottom of the 
sixth on hits by sophomore 
catcher Darryl Tan and senior 
third baseman Adam Gruber.
This was the best series 
of the season. A total team 
effort against a quality opponent with exceptional pitching from Darren and Brendan, Brogdon said. It was a 
great note to end on and will 
be an outstanding segue into 
the spring.
With this weekend being 
the conclusion of his Tartan 
baseball career, Brogdon 
went out with stellar play. He 
hit the ball hard all day and 
completed many athletic putouts at shortstop, including 
converting three  643 double plays with senior second 
baseman Joe Barbish.
When I was a freshman, 
Wade always went out of 
his way to make sure I was 
doing okay. He is one of the 
best teammates Ive ever 
played with: a great player 
and an even better person, 
MacNabb said.
At the end of the season, 
Barbish led the team in batting average, and Gruber was 
the team leader in runs batted 
in and home runs. Brogdon 
led the team in runs, and Tan 
led in steals with seven.
Kerfoot and MacNabb ?nished the season leading all 
pitching categories. Kerfoot 
was best in wins and strikeouts, while MacNabb led the 
team in earned run average 
and wins plus hits divided by 
innings pitched.
Brogdons career numbers 
of .462 BA, .524 on-base percentage, and .687 slugging 
percentage are among the 
best at Carnegie Mellon.
This weekends win was 
bittersweet, a great game 
and quality win, but it meant 
my career has ended here at 
CMU, Brogdon said. CMUs 
baseball program is a phenomenal organization and 
I cant thank coach Claudio 
[Reilsono] and coach Rege 
[Kiliany] along with my 
teammates over the past four 
years enough for an amazing 
experience.
Editors Note: Adam Gruber 
is Sports Co-editor for The 
Tartan.
Courtesy of Neon Tommy via Flickr

---------------------------------------------------

A10  thetartan.org/sports The Tartan  November 12, 2012
Tartans fall to Case Western Reserve in ?nal game
ADAM GRUBER
Sports Co-Editor
In the ?nal regular season 
game of the season last Saturday, the Tartans football team 
fell to Case Western Reserve 
University in the Academic 
Bowl, 3624. Despite the disappointment, junior wide receiver Tim Kikta set the Carnegie Mellon single-season 
record for receiving yards with 
63 in the game. Kikta needed 
32 yards to break the record.
With the loss, the Tartans 
end the season 64, with a 12 
record in conference play. The 
Case Western Reserve Spartans are also 64, ?nishing 
21 in conference play.
After leading 2416 at the 
end of the ?rst half, the Spartans defense shut down the 
Tartans offense, preventing a 
second-half score from Carnegie Mellon.
But the ?rst half featured 
some excellent Tartan offense. Senior cornerback Sam 
Thompson returned a punt 
53 yards for a touchdown in 
the second quarter, his second 
punt return for a touchdown 
on the season.
Kikta led the receiving 
game with 63 receiving yards 
and a touchdown. Junior 
quarterback Rob Kalkstein 
completed 16 of 32 passes for 
173 yards with a touchdown 
and an interception.
The Spartans sti?ed the 
Tartans running game, holding them to just 47 yards on 
the ground. Senior fullback 
Jared Delello scored a touchdown running the ball and 
?nished the game with ?ve 
rushes for 14 yards.
The Spartans were able 
to win this game with an effective running game. They 
found the end zone four times 
on the ground and ran for a total of 242 yards as a team.
Its never a good feeling to 
lose the ?nal game of the season, said senior running back 
Patrick Blanks. However, everyone played with great passion and effort.
With the end of the season 
?nally here, the Tartans say 
goodbye to some seniors who 
have been key contributors to 
the football team over their 
college careers.
Blanks and fellow senior 
running back Jake Nardone, 
Thompson, senior outside 
linebackers Nick Karabin and 
Owen Parker, senior safety 
Anthony Lorubbio, and Delello are just a few of the seniors 
who said goodbye to college 
football last Saturday.
I have such a close bond 
with all of the other seniors 
on the team, Blanks said. 
Its going to be tough going 
forward without football, but 
we will always have the great 
memories.
Kelsey Scott/Staff Photographer
The Tartans fell short in their last game of the season, losing to a team that ?nished with the same record.
NCAA, from A1
extended their strong performance into the second half. 
They made nine shots at the 
goal during the ?rst seven 
minutes, including a close 
one by senior defender Mitra 
Ebrahimi.
Venegas gave Carnegie 
Mellon a 40 lead with a 
shot in the 59th minute, and 
Zischkau added a goal during the ?nal minute. These 
were the players fourth and 
third goals of the season, 
respectively.
This game con?rmed 
that we deserve to be in 
the NCAA tournament. We 
played with heart and determination, Magill said.
Junior goalkeepers Anna 
Albi and Julie Rekant combined performances to lead 
the team to its ninth shutout 
out of 18 games in the 2012 
season.
For the team, the game 
truly showcased all the hard 
work we put into this season. 
Not only did we work hard offensively, scoring ?ve goals, 
but likewise had a great defensive mentality, not allowing any shots on goal, Ebrahimi said. This game gives 
us tremendous momentum 
heading into the rest of the 
tournament in continue to 
make Tartan history.
It was a great day to be 
a Tartan, said sophomore 
goalkeeper Julia Harmison.
Soccer wins 50Men lose in the second round of NCAAs
Jos Lopez/Junior Photographer 
Senior forward Brianna Magill (No. 10) scored twice against Cabrini.
File photo by Jonathan Carreon/Photo Editor
Junior mid?elder Chris Wysocki (No. 4) steals the ball from Morrisville in the Tartans ?rst round of NCAAs.
GABRIELLE WEST
Staffwriter
The mens soccer team 
began post-season play in 
the ?rst round of the NCAA 
Tournament on Friday against 
Morrisville State College. The 
Tartans defeated the Morrisville Mustangs with a ?nal 
score of 30.
The ?rst half of the game 
was fortuitous for the Tartans with 10 attempted shots; 
however, they werent able to 
connect with the goal until 
the second half. Shots were 
taken by senior defender Ben 
Bryant, junior mid?elder Matt 
Sarett, senior mid?elder John 
Crawshaw, junior forward 
Scott Gerfen, junior mid?elder Mike Ferraco, and junior 
forward Max Tassano. 
The Mustangs were only 
able to attempt two shots  
both of which were saved by 
Carnegie Mellon junior keeper Christopher Madden.
The second half proved 
to be the moment of opportunity for the Tartans to put 
some goals on the scoreboard. 
Within the ?rst minute and 
57 seconds of the second half, 
Gerfen assisted junior mid?elder Chris Wysocki for the 
?rst goal of the night into an 
open net. 
Just less than three minutes later, Crawshaw scored 
his fourth goal of the season 
off an assist from Ferraco from 
the left sideline.
Within the next 21 minutes of play, Morrisville State 
was able to get off one unsuccessful shot before ?rst-year 
mid?elder Connor Webb took 
a square shot to assist sophomore defender Brandon Peck 
in his ?rst goal of the season, 
and the ?nal one of the game. 
Morrisville State only took a 
total of three shots in the second half of the game due to 
the Tartans strong defense.
In the second round of the 
NCAA Tournament on Sunday, the Tartans were defeated by the Ohio Northern Polar 
Bears, 31. 
Carnegie Mellon started 
the ?rst half off strong with 
three attempted shots by 
Crawshaw, Tassano, and Bryant before Wysocki scored 
the Tartans ?rst and only 
goal of the night off an assist 
from Sarett. Just seven minutes later, the Polar Bears answered with their ?rst goal of 
the night and the ?nal goal of 
the half.
In the remainder of the 
?rst half, Carnegie Mellon 
continued to take one more 
shot, while Ohio Northern 
took ?ve.
Within the ?rst 11 minutes of the second half, the 
Polar Bears scored their second goal. No more than two 
minutes later, they headed in 
another goal off a corner kick. 
Madden had two of his 
four overall saves in the second half, which kept Ohio 
Northern from scoring again. 
The Tartans continued to take 
four more shots, but were unsuccessful in every attempt.
Although we lost today 
in the second round of the 
NCAA tournament, Im extremely proud as a captain of 
this team, Bryant said. We 
had a very successful season, 
and unfortunately things just 
didnt go our way tonight.
The Tartans ?nished 
their season with a record of 
1341, while Ohio Northern 
continues on in the NCAA 
Tournament to play Susquehanna University.
As a team, we are returning all but two players next 
year, so there are only greater 
things to come of this team. 
The focus is now on fall of 
2013, Bryant said.
ABBY SMITH
Assistant Sports Editor
Senior soccer player Alex Abedian has 
been one of the most ?exible and focused 
contributors to the Carnegie Mellon mens  
soccer team.
The team currently sits at a 134 record 
at the top of the University Athletic Association (UAA) conference. The players stellar 
performance this season earned them a bid 
in the NCAA Division III National Tournament.
For Abedian, these results exceed any expectations he had. I honestly had no idea 
what to expect coming into the season. After a bit of a rough year last year, I kept my 
hopes modest, Abedian said. But from the 
start of preseason, I could tell that there was 
a change of heart, and I knew it was going to 
be a great year.
This change of heart proved to be worthwhile, as the team recently had ?ve of its 
players honored by the University Athletic 
Association  conference.
Head coach Arron Lujan and assistant 
coach Mike Piranian were named University 
Athletic Association Coaching Staff of the 
Year for leading the team to a No. 6 national 
ranking, a ?rst-place ?nish in the UAA, and a 
return trip to the NCAA tournament.
I think our biggest accomplishment was 
receiving the NCAA bid, Abedian said. It 
just showed that everything we worked for 
?nally paid off.
On Saturday, the Tartans faced off 
against Morrisville State College and won 
30 in a shutout.
Abedian was a key player in the game: 
When Chernor Barrie of Morrisville looked 
as though he was about to score a goal, Abedian ran him down and de?ected the ball before Barrie could take a shot off the goal box.
Originally, Abedian thought he would be 
playing forward, but he was switched to defender this year.
Alex is truly the quintessential soccer 
player, said teammate and senior mid?elder Moni Sallan. He was always willing to 
step up and try something new. His ability to 
play any position truly proves his physicality 
and ?exibility.
Abedian has grown from playing in ?ve 
games his ?rst year to playing in all of them. 
This season, he scored eight points as one of 
the teams leading defenders.
I hadnt been a consistent starter during 
my time here, he said.
I think that being able to start and really 
contribute to the team has been my biggest 
accomplishment this season.
His teammates agree. Alex really contributed to the team this year. Not only with 
his numerous corner kicks, but with his focused attitude and driven athleticism, Sallan said.
Abedian is no outsider to the world of 
soccer, having played since he was four years 
old. Soccer is such dynamic game, he said. 
I just the love the competitiveness of it.
Even though the team is internally competitive, Abedian said he loves the camaraderie of Carnegie Mellons team.
I have loved playing for CMU because 
we are able to have a great Division-III program while going to an academically excellent school, Abedian said.
When not on the soccer ?eld, he is pursuing a mechanical engineering degree. He 
hopes to continue on to graduate school, but 
remains ?exible. Ill just see where I go, he 
said.
Before the second round match against 
Ohio Northern, Abedian sets his goals high.
I want to do everything I can to help us 
go as far as possible in the NCAA tournament, he said. I want us to be champions.
ATHLETE PROFILESenior Alex Abedian proves to be ?exible and focused
Jos Lopez/Junior Photographer

---------------------------------------------------

Film festival
Pittsburgh independent theaters show 
hidden cinematic treasures  B8
11.12.12 Volume 107, Issue 11
THREERIVERSFILMFESTIVAL

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
From 2-D to 3-D and back again in this weeks 
Stick Cats. 
11
Dollar Movie
AB Films presents a Batman-filled week of four 
films in McConomy Auditorium.
7
Paperhouse
Paperhouse talks about English indie rock 
band Foals and its new single Inhaler.
5
The Tartan . Box 119 . UC Suite 103 . Carnegie Mellon University . 5000 Forbes Ave . Pittsburgh, PA 15213 . www.thetartan.org .  2012 The Tartan
PUBLISHER Christa Hester EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Emily Dobler
PILLBOX EDITOR Rachel Cohen ASSISTANT PILLBOX EDITOR Laura Scherb COMICS EDITOR Nicole Hamilton 
ART EDITOR Adelaide Cole PHOTO EDITOR Jonathan Carreon 
COPY MANAGER Evan Kahn COVER Patrick Gage Kelley
8
35610
regulars...
Advice
Everything you need to know about growing 
up and spicing up relations with your roomie.
3
...diversions
...this week only
Sleigh Bells
AB Concerts presented the noise-pop band on 
Saturday night in Wiegand Gymnasium. 
3
CMOA
Inventing the Modern World explores evolving 
tastes in design and aesthetics. 
4
Crystal CastlesThe bands new album, (III), prompts listeners 
to examine social and political problems.  5
Chicago 
Broadway Across America brings the dark, 
satirical musical to life at Heinz Hall. 
6
Wreck-It Ralph
Disneys charming new movie is a hit for 
viewers of all ages. 
7
Film festival
The two-week Three Rivers Film Festival brings 
indie films to theaters around Pittsburgh. 
8
Spoon
The restaurant on South Highland Avenue is 
expensive but tasty.
10
Did You Know?
Did you know that 25 years ago, a Carnegie 
Mellon student was found dead in Schenley?
10
Puzzles
Test your mental might with Sudoku and 
Kakuro puzzles.
13
Horoscopes
The stars are overrated. Find out about your 
future from The Tartans horoscopes. 
14
Calendar
A look at the week ahead in music, culture, 
and community. 
15

---------------------------------------------------

music
pillbox 11.12.123
AB Concerts presents Sleigh Bells
Energetic noise pop, spectacular lights show wow students
What happens when an elementary school Spanish 
teacher and a hardcore guitarist decide to form a 
musical duo? In this case, Sleigh Bells was born.
On Saturday night, the duo performed at Carnegie 
Mellon with an accompanying guitarist, delivering 
a show complete with loud music, energy, and a 
spectacular lights show. While the concert was high 
quality and enjoyable to a wide audience, Sleigh 
Bells music is definitely catered to a specific taste.
The bands genre is most often described as noise 
pop and is particularly difficult to describe to 
anyone who has never heard it before. Its a good 
thing, then, that the duo came to Carnegie Mellon 
and performed with opener AraabMuzik, exposing 
those who had never heard of Sleigh Bells music to 
something completely new.
If one word could be used to describe Sleigh Bells 
in concert, it would be loud. Noise pop is in fact 
the perfect way to describe what the musical 
duo performed, with what vocalist Alexis Krauss 
described in an interview with Australian music 
magazine Inpress as a mixture of distortion and 
volume, poppy vocals mixed with harsh, over-driven, 
blown-out beats. Consisting of Krauss, previously 
a teacher, and guitarist Derek Miller, formerly of 
the band Poison the Well, Sleigh Bells combines 
guitar rock and electric music for a unique sound, 
according to Miller in an interview with Pitchfork.
AraabMuzik, whose real name is Abraham Orellana, 
began the show with loud, fast-paced, rhythmic 
beats, better suited for dancing than Sleigh Bells 
set. His style revolves around a diverse sampling 
of music such as trance music and dubstep; he 
then uses the MPC drum machine to cut up the 
samples and incorporate rapid drum patterns. His 
performance was entertaining, and the music was 
catchy and well received by the audience, even more 
so for those who enjoy the genres incorporated into 
his music. As with any concert, the crowd got a little 
crazy after a few songs, especially those who were 
closer to the stage. There was a circle of students 
running into each other, and at one point, it felt as 
if the audience was pushing on itself from every 
direction. 
The gap between AraabMuziks performance and 
Sleigh Bells was a long one, and people began to 
feel impatient, inspiring a few to start chanting, 
Sleigh Bells! Sleigh Bells! When Krauss and Miller 
eventually emerged on the stage, the crowd went 
wild again, excited for the concert they had come 
to watch. Krauss jumped around onstage and held 
hands with members of the audience, and both 
Krauss and Miller dove into the crowd at one point. 
As a result, the audience gained the energy it had 
lost during the wait between sets. To someone 
unacquainted with Sleigh Bells, the vocals consisted 
of Krauss almost shouting at the audience, combined 
with an electric guitar and elements of electronic 
music in the background.
Overall, the concert was enjoyable and high in 
quality, even if the music style did not fit everyones 
palate. Sleigh Bells seems to enjoy playing with 
different elements, combining sounds that appear 
cacophonous at first, but work together to create 
a unique sound. For people that enjoy this music 
style, or are interested in trying something new, 
they can look forward to Sleigh Bells newest album, 
scheduled for release in 2013. In the meantime, 
they can listen to the bands album Reign of Terror, 
released in February.
Nikita Mishra | Junior Staffwriter
Kate Groschner | Staff Photographer
Advice for awkward people
Dear Patrick,
Im turning 22 this week, 
and no one seems 
excited. Everyone went 
crazy last year, and 
no one seems to care 
now. Are birthdays not 
important anymore? Did 
my birthday celebrations 
peak at 21, when I threw 
up in the middle of the 
South Side?
Say it aint so,
Barely Invigorated 
Regarding The 
Hullabaloo, Daunting Age 
Yet Buoyantly Optimistic 
Yearly
Dear BIRTHDAY BOY,
Im sorry, but youre old 
now. Twenty-one is the last 
birthday thats fun. What do 
you have to look forward to 
with your next birthdays? 
Nothing but old age. Youre 
officially in your early 20s. Its 
all downhill from here. But 
since youre over 21, you 
can drown your existential 
sorrow in alcohol! Welcome 
to adulthood.
Theres nothing inherently 
exciting about your birthday 
anymore  all the big ones 
now are just markers on 
your road to death  but 
that doesnt mean they cant 
be fun! Your friends arent 
excited? Remind them of 
all the fun things you did for 
their birthdays so theyre 
guilted into doing something 
for yours. Nothing holds off 
the existential dread of old 
age better than a chocolate 
cake you guilted your friends 
into baking.
Every second brings you 
closer to death,
Patrick Hoskins
Dear Patrick,
Why doesnt my 
roommate catcall me 
any more? In the past, 
whenever Id take my 
clothes off before taking 
a shower, hed hoot and 
whistle. I used to roll my 
eyes, but now I miss it. 
What happened to our 
spark? Is there anything 
I can do to liven up our 
roommate relationship?
Thanks,
Originally Lustful 
Declarations Miffed, 
After Removal Regret 
Ignoring Erstwhile 
Declarations, Can Old 
Utterances Please Linger 
Everlastingly
Dear OLD MARRIED 
COUPLE,
Let me guess: You guys 
have been living together 
for over a year now, right? 
Thats about the time when 
things become routine. Hes 
just too used to the sight of 
you walking to and from the 
shower in your underwear to 
even muster a half-hearted 
whistle.
You need to reinvigorate 
your relationship. Take your 
roommate out for drinks and 
catch up. Spark things up 
with some fancy underwear 
the next time you get ready 
for the shower. Just because 
youve been living together 
for a while doesnt mean you 
cant still have fun.
Try returning the favor 
every once in a while,
Patrick Hoskins
Need advice? Send queries 
to advice@thetartan.org.
About growing old and stale living situations 
Sleigh Bells performed with stunning stages lights on Saturday night in Wiegand Gymnasim.

---------------------------------------------------

4art
pillbox 11.12.12
Intriguing souvenirs and relics well worn by the sands of 
time send visitors hurtling back to the past in Inventing 
the Modern World: Decorative Arts at the Worlds Fairs, 
18511939 at the Carnegie Museum of Art.
The exhibition, which opened Oct. 13 in the Heinz 
Gallery, is more than a simple collection of artifacts from 
eras gone by: Its a veritable time travel portal. Opening 
with a rich collection of beautiful wood furniture, 
elaborate vases, and intricate jewelry from the mid-19th 
century, the exhibition advances chronologically through 
the worlds fairs spanning into the late 30s.
The exhibit looks like a behind-the-scenes tour of a 
strange movie thats a combination of Indiana Jones, 
The Great Gatsby, The Phantom of the Opera, and a 
live-action version of The Jetsons. It gives off the feeling 
of walking through a time travelers bazaar, weaving 
a cohesive and elegant thread through a medley of 
artifacts that are otherwise startlingly incoherent.
Besides taking its audience on a fascinating trip into the 
golden days of the past, the exhibition inspires viewers 
to re?ect on the place of art and craftsmanship in 
modern society. Everyday objects in the exhibition, from 
puff boxes to bookcases and arm chairs, are transformed 
from mundane to magni?cent solely for decoration. 
Have we as a society lost that appreciation for ?owery 
detail and unnecessary embellishment, or is there still 
a vibrant culture that supports an artistic, innovative 
spirit? The exhibition subtly asks these questions of the 
viewers from behind the beautiful display.
Its impossible not to wish you were seeing all of these 
items for the ?rst time at the worlds fairs. A collection 
of early Tiffany & Co. jewelry shines brightly under 
the lights of the display case, and the Art Deco-era 
radio broadcast panel from KDKAs ?rst broadcast is on 
display. The bookcases look as if theyre straight out 
of Hogwarts; the chairs range from absurdly futuristic 
to old and indescribably detailed; and the vases and 
teapots from all over the world make Paul Reveres silver 
teapot look like a toy.
The exhibition is appropriately  ful?lling, yet not 
overwhelming. It takes viewers back in time for a stroll 
through the worlds ever-changing aesthetic tastes while 
also prompting them to think about the relationship 
between the arts and the world. This blending of themes 
was certainly no easy task. 
As is always the case at the Carnegie Museum of Art, 
the exhibition is well researched, informative, and 
interesting. Its quite apparent that the exhibit planners 
paid great attention to detail, resulting in a satisfyingly 
rich color scheme and minute details, such as a draped 
curtain on the door between rooms. All of these elements 
come together to create a fascinating exhibit that blends 
history and art.
Whether youre interested in ogling Tiffany & Co. 
bracelets and necklaces or discovering the trendiest way 
to style a chair in 1918, this exhibition will satisfy both 
your historical hankering and your artistic craving.
Laura Scherb | Assistant Pillbox Editor 
Inventing the Modern World: Decorative Arts at the 
Worlds Fairs, 18511939 will run at the Carnegie 
Museum of Art through Feb. 24.
Courtesy of Piotrus via Wikimedia Commons
Inventing the Modern World: Decorative Arts at the Worlds Fairs, 18511939 at the Carnegie Museum of Art explores the worlds changing tastes in decorative design. 
History, art become one at worlds fair exhibit
Inventing the Modern World at the Carnegie Museum of Art is a blast to the past 

---------------------------------------------------

music
pillbox 11.12.125
Paperhouse
On Foals
There comes a time in every boys life when he becomes 
a man. For some, it is when they lose their virginity. For 
others, it is their ?rst drink or their ?rst ?ght. For others 
still (hint: Carnegie Mellon students), it is running their ?rst 
program. For me, however, it was when I ?rst heard Foals.
Foals is an indie rock band from England. The core 
members of the band started their musical careers 
in a small math rock group based in Oxford, but they 
disbanded and created the band Foals in 2005. Moving 
away from hard math rock, a very rhythmically complex 
genre, and into a more math-inspired indie rock feel, the 
band released its ?rst album in 2008, titled Antidotes. It 
was this album that turned me into a man.
I dont remember exactly how I came upon the album, but 
it was good enough that I actually went out and bought 
a physical copy. Never before had I found something that 
challenged me musically and intrigued me as much as 
Foals did. So when its second album, Total Life Forever, 
was announced in 2010, I had to preorder it. Total Life 
Forever continued with the bands departure from math 
rock into a much more indie (some would say accessible) 
sound, but it remained uniquely identi?able as Foals.
The bands new single, Inhaler, dropped last Monday. 
Once again, Foals moves even further away from math 
rock and Antidotes. Put simply, Inhaler is less math, 
more muscle. The album, called Holy Fire, comes out 
in February, and you can bet your plaid pantaloons that 
Ill be preordering it as well. Foals isnt just the funkiest, 
most fun-loving band out there. Foals has the musical 
genius that bands strive for years to emulate, and it does 
something that very few other bands can do: hange its 
sound, and remain just as good as it was in the ?rst place 
 if not better.
Ryan Black | Special to The Tartan
top 10 on WRCT 88.3 FM
most played albums of the last week
Flying Lotus  Until the Quiet Comes
Dum Dum Girls  End of Daze
Daphni  Jiaolong
Freelance Whales  Diluvia
The Raveonettes Observator
Neurosis  Honor Found in Decay
Mares of Thrace  The Pilgrimage
Steve Lacy  The Sun
Ry Cooder  Election Special
Woods  Bend Beyond
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
Crystal Castles releases (III)
New album elicits emotional, eye-opening reactions
It feels like the world is a dystopia where victims 
dont get justice and corruption prevails, Crystal 
Castles singer Alice Glass re?ected in an interview 
with online music blog Pretty Much Amazing. 
This statement characterizes the atmosphere of 
the bands newest album, (III), which is currently 
available for streaming and will be released Monday.
While the distorted, low-?delity electronics are 
reminiscent of Crystal Castles 2008 and 2010 
albums  (I) and (II), respectively  (III) possesses 
signi?cantly darker undercurrents. The majority 
of the tracks seem to channel Glass above 
statement, using deep synth sounds, eerie vocals, 
and fragmented white noise to allow the listener to 
experience the lead singers personal misery.
The raw, distorted sounds that permeate the 
tracks add to (III)s deliberate ugliness. In its effort 
to capture what Glass and producer Ethan Kath 
perceive to be a very bleak reality, the record 
matures the abrasive electronic experiments that 
typi?ed (I) and (II). The Canadian duo deliberately 
chose to abandon computers and digital equipment 
in its production, creating a unique analog quality 
that manifests itself through unre?ned beats and 
obscure vocals. There are no samples, no covers, and 
no guest singers. Gone are the catchy, punk antimelodies of the songs Courtship Dating and Doe 
Deer; here, the lyrics shroud themselves in sheets of 
feedback and pulsing drones.
Glass vocals  too quiet in some songs  may 
be the most distinctive feature of the album. Her 
mangled language ?its through the song Kerosene, 
whispers within mechanical whirrings in 
Mercenary, and soars above melancholy refrains in 
Child I Will Hurt You. Wrath of God is arguably 
the best song in the album, clearly illustrating Glass 
ability to inextricably weave her dark vocals into the 
fabric of Kaths compositions  a feature absent 
from the groups two previous releases.
Also notable is the albums use of drums. The 
rhythms of Pale Flesh and Affection evoke the 
hip-hop and stop-timed beats prevalent in the 
witch house genre. Coupled with elements from 
genres like noise, drone, and shoegaze, the fusion 
of chopped and screwed techniques undoubtedly 
re?ects larger musical trends; however, (III)s intense 
instrumentation sets it apart from its contemporary 
electronic counterparts.
Crystal Castles latest chapter is a radical departure 
from its previous releases, eliciting emotion that 
appropriately responds to our harrowing and 
uncertain world. Even (III)s cover art indicates deep 
horror: A veiled Yemeni woman cradles her injured, 
naked son. Huge and luminous, the image has been 
stripped of its context, glowing blacklight purple 
against a shrouded void.
We must consider the implication that, as we lose 
ourselves in Glass voice from the comfort of our 
headphones, unimaginable terrors roil elsewhere. 
Even the track names  Plague, Kerosene, and 
Violent Youth  allude to real human atrocities. 
(III) is unique in its illustration of relevant political 
and social themes, a feature that distinguishes it 
from any other record release this month.
Chloe Lula | Junior Staffwriter
Courtesy of froderamone via Flickr 
Alice Glass, the lead singer for Crystal Castles, performs in concert. 

---------------------------------------------------

6theater
pillbox 11.12.12
As the audience ?lled the seats of Heinz Hall last 
Thursday, the only thing onstage to greet the show-goers 
was an empty black chair, lit by a single spotlight, with a 
hat perched on the back. 
When the house lights dimmed, a company member 
strode out, placed the hat on her head, and announced, 
Welcome, ladies and gentlemen. You are about to see a 
story of murder, greed, corruption, violence, exploitation, 
adultery, and treachery  all those things we hold near 
and dear to our hearts.
The minimal setting and tongue-in-cheek welcome set 
the tone for Broadway Across Americas production of 
Chicago, a dark, satirical musical about show business 
and Chicago during the roaring 20s.
In Chicago, housewife and wannabe vaudeville star 
Roxie Hart (Tracy Shayne) kills her lover when he says 
hes leaving her. Roxie is arrested and taken to prison, 
where she meets Velma Kelly (Terra C. MacLeod), a 
small-time vaudeville performer who has become famous 
for the double murder she is accused of. The two women 
become bitter rivals as they ?ght for the attention of their 
attorney, smooth-talking Billy Flynn (Brian OBrien), and 
the Chicago press.
Although most people are familiar with the 2002 ?lm 
adaptation that stars Rene Zellweger and Catherine 
Zeta-Jones, the musical is actually quite different 
from the movie. Its structured like a vaudeville show, 
skipping from one musical number to the next with a 
company member dramatically announcing each song. 
There is very little action or dialogue between musical 
numbers  only enough to maintain the structure of the 
show and keep the plot moving.
The set of the show matched the minimal nature of the 
plot. The musicians bandstand took up the majority of 
the stage, and for most of the show, props were limited 
to black chairs and ladders running up either side of 
the stage. Similarly, most of the characters donned 
simple black dance out?ts, and the choreography was 
constrained to simple, sultry movements.
What the production lacked in ?ashy production 
elements, however, it made up for in talent and sex 
appeal. The company members all ?aunted their dance 
skills, with moves that set the tone for the adultery 
promised in the introduction. 
The dancing wasnt the only element that highlighted 
the performers talent: The vocals of Matron Mama 
Morton (Kecia Lewis-Evans) in particular stole the 
show. Lewis-Evans only sang in two musical numbers 
 When Youre Good to Mama and Class  but her 
impressive range and vocal control left the audience 
yearning for more.
Ron Orcbach won over the audiences heart as Amos 
Hart, Roxies bumbling but doting husband. His 
affectionate-but-clueless characterization endeared 
him to the viewer, earning Amos vocal af?rmations 
of sympathy from the audience at several points 
throughout the show. 
In juxtaposition with Amos awkward sweetness was 
OBrien, playing the charismatic attorney whose talents 
lay in manipulating the press and the jury. He created a 
powerful presence onstage, charming the audience even 
as he openly advocated lying to the courts in order to 
win his clients cases.
Surprisingly, the least impressive part of the show was 
the performances of the two lead actresses, MacLeod 
and Shayne. Neither of their performances was 
particularly arresting, and often the dance company 
members were more engaging than were the leads in 
musical numbers. Granted, Roxie and Velma portrayed 
aspiring vaudeville performers with merely mediocre 
abilities, so it makes sense that their vocals would lack 
the power of, say, Lewis-Evans.
This problem is one that any musical about mediocre 
performers must tackle: Should you stay true to the 
character and make the performance subpar? Or, 
should you just focus on putting on a good show for the 
audience? 
Roxie and Velmas big closing duet, Hot Honey 
Rag, indicated that this performance leaned toward 
the former: The sloppy dance moves seemed like an 
artistic choice meant to highlight the irony of the two 
murderesses making it big. However, while their lack 
of star quality added to the dark comedic edge of the 
show, it didnt add to the audiences enjoyment of the 
performance.
Despite this weakness, Chicago kept its promise to put 
on a vaudeville performance with corruption, violence, 
exploitation, adultery, and all that jazz  and did it with 
smoldering musical numbers and enough talent to keep 
the audience entertained.
Anna Walsh | Personnel Manager
Chicago comes to Pittsburgh with a bang
Broadway Across America presents dark, glittering story of murder, greed in Heinz Hall
Courtesy of Enrique Fernndez via Flickr
Like the musicals plot, the set for the production of 
Chicago was minimal, featuring only a chair and a hat 
onstage as guests filed in for the show. Broadway 
Across America presented a Pittsburgh 
production of the satirical musical at 
Heinz Hall last week. 

---------------------------------------------------

film
pillbox 11.12.127
What happens when the arcade closes? Disneys 
newest effort, Wreck-It Ralph, creatively answers 
this question through the story of a bad-guy-turnedhero. Wreck-It Ralph is an original ?lm that explores 
an imaginary world of living, breathing video game 
characters: When the arcade closes at the end of the 
business day, the characters are free to shed their 
programmed roles, and (for the movie-watching 
audience) the real entertainment begins.
Unlike most movies, our protagonist in Wreck-It Ralph 
is the so-called villain. Ralph, voiced by John C. Reilly, 
is programmed to ful?ll his role as the hot-tempered, 
destructive giant of the game Fix-It Felix, Jr. Even 
though Ralph is labeled as a bad guy from the onset, 
the audience views him as anything but. Rather than 
a menacing giant, the Ralph the audience meets at the 
beginning of the ?lm is a pitiful character, neglected 
by his fellow video game characters and relegated to a 
rotten existence in the dump.
Although he stands at a hulking nine feet tall, with each 
hand about twice the size of his head  perfect for 
smashing buildings  Ralphs tendency to pulverize 
everything he touches (when not in his video-game 
mode) is the result of innocent clumsiness rather than 
violence or malice. In a group therapy session with other 
video game villains like Bowser and Dr. Robotnik, Ralph 
reveals a deeply sensitive side and a lifetime of hurt as 
he questions his role in the video game world.
Ralphs discontent reaches a boiling point within the 
?rst few minutes of the ?lm. With the 30th anniversary of 
their game at hand, the good people of Fix-It Felix, Jr. are 
celebrating in the penthouse with cake. As an integral 
part of the game, Ralph believes he should be invited 
to join the fun  but even among his colleagues, he is 
rejected as the bad guy. Ralph receives a challenge 
from the other characters: If he wins a medal  an honor 
reserved for good guys only  he can move out of his 
pitiful home in the dump and into the penthouse.
Therefore, in spite of his bad guy title, the audience 
instantly sides with Ralph in the events that follow.  
Finally fed up with his circumstances, Ralph begins to 
game jump; navigating through the arcades Game 
Control Center, he tries to participate in games he 
wasnt programmed into. But a serious problem arises 
when Ralph fails to return to his own game and Fix-It 
Felix, Jr. gets scheduled to be unplugged  a virtual 
death sentence for any game in the arcade. 
The real magic of the ?lm is the unlikely yet ultimately 
unbreakable friendship that forms between Ralph and 
Vanellope von Schweetz (Sarah Silverman), a go-kart 
racer in the candy-coated game Sugar Rush. Both 
characters are outcasts in their own games. The two 
characters couldnt be more different, but somehow, 
united by their mis?t status and mutual desire for 
acceptance, the pair makes for a great team. The 
two must team up to get Ralph his medal and enable 
Vanellope to ?nally achieve her dream of racing with the 
other characters.
Despite the humor that often characterizes their 
relationship, it is clear to the viewers that, over time, 
the two develop a profound bond that transcends mere 
friendship  to the point of self-sacri?ce. Between 
their hilarious exchanges and obvious devotion to one 
another, the friendship between Ralph and Vanellope  
two mismatched, entertaining, and incredibly devoted 
heroes  elevates the movie from a series of video game 
references to a ?lm that anyone can enjoy.
Wreck-It Ralph is a funny movie that manages to 
incorporate many elements of video game history, 
while still retaining the heart of a Disney ?lm. Between 
an original premise and a set of lovable, amusing 
characters, Wreck-It Ralph is a cinematic success.
Christopher Sickler | Junior Staffwriter 
Rachel Cohen | Pillbox Editor
Gaming meets Disney in Wreck-It Ralph
Newest animated family movie is heartwarming, relatable, charming fun for all ages
Matthew Zurcher | Staffwriter
Here we go. Strap in for Christopher 
Nolans reboot of the movies that 
got fanboys to issue death threats 
to critics who didnt like them. This 
is serious business for a lot of folks, 
and theyre very serious movies. Why 
so serious, you ask? Batman Begins 
explains the genesis of Christian Bales 
reconstruction of Bruce Wayne. The 
?lm was released in 2005 and plays 
off public fear of biological warfare 
and weapons of mass destruction. 
Remember those?
Batman Begins
Thursday, Nov. 15
7 10 1
The Dark Knight Rises
Saturday, Nov. 17
7 10 1
All good things must come to an end, 
right? This one just takes three hours 
and six endings. The Jokers ghost 
hovers over this ?nal chapter, in which 
Bane attempts to destroy Gotham 
once and for all. Christopher Nolans 
social consciousness also reaches new, 
strange heights as he tries to address 
the Occupy movement and economic 
inequality. Ultimately, the movie presents 
a bizarre rightist argument after two 
hours of exposition, but it will certainly 
tickle your inner Pittsburgher with some 
noticeable impressions of the city where 
it was ?lmed. Its loud, its big, and its 
Batman.
The Dark Knight
Friday, Nov. 16
7 10 1
Christopher Nolans strained 
seriousness continues with The Dark 
Knight, which will come to be known as 
a major turning point in the relationship 
between the box of?ce and superhero 
franchises. The ?lm gives up the 
pseudo-sociology of its predecessor in 
favor of one fear to conquer them all: 
chaos. Batman must save Gotham from 
the nihilism of Heath Ledgers Joker, 
who is presented with so much fury 
and skillful panache that it is distracting. 
Whether hes walking on screen to 
intimidate some henchmen or to blow 
up a boat, his virtuosity overwhelms the 
picture.
TBA
Sunday, Nov. 18
8 10 12
AB Films continues its semesterly 
tradition along the lines of this weeks 
Batman theme. Be sure to bring 
identi?cation (other than your Carnegie 
Mellon ID) proving that you are 18 or 
older, and enjoy this departure from 
Dollar Movies usual content.
dollarmovie
McConomy Auditorium, University Center

---------------------------------------------------

feature
pillbox 11.12.1298feature
pillbox 11.12.12
You could blink and miss the Three Rivers Film Festival. 
It blows through Pittsburgh just as a ?ash of creativity 
strikes the mind, illuminating the city with the glow of 
celluloid off a screen. Operating out of three independent 
theaters, Pittsburgh Filmmakers and Dollar Bank sponsor 
two weeks of nirvana for ?lm fans of all stripes.
Casual viewers can expand their boundaries with new 
foreign releases, and veterans can ?nd dated rarities, 
resurrected for the weekend. Children can be introduced 
to the magic of silent comedy with live musical 
accompaniment. As they say, theres something for 
everyone.
But most of all, theres a lot for college students. With 
a few bucks for discount tickets, students have access 
to ?lm history. The newest releases  successes and 
failures alike  are set against their predecessors. So 
many moviegoers bemoan the recent Hollywood surge of 
sequels, knock-offs, and gimmicks; the Three Rivers Film 
Festival is the remedy, featuring gems from the shifting 
world of cinema.
The festival opened Nov. 2 with an enthusiastic burst 
by showing three of the years 
most celebrated 
releases: 
Silver 
Linings Playbook, Rust and Bone, and Beware of Mr. 
Baker. Playbook is the newest release from director 
David O. Russell (The Fighter) and features an Oscarworthy performance from Jennifer Lawrence, famed for 
her role as Katniss Everdeen in The Hunger Games. Rust 
and Bone as a whole works as a stylish twist on human 
melodrama, and Marion Cotillards performance is sure 
to compete with Lawrences come awards season.
Two highlights of the ?rst week came as a Tuesday 
double-bill: Neighboring Sounds, a quiet Brazilian epic, 
and Compliance, an unspeakably disastrous American 
indie. 
These two pictures couldnt have been more different. 
Neighboring Sounds is a sprawling story, vaguely 
connecting the lives of a dozen inhabitants of a middleclass Brazilian city block. Compliance retells the 
famous, true tale of the sexual assault of a McDonalds 
employee when a prank caller claims to be a 
police of?cer. While Sounds 
explores 
the 
relationship between architectural space and 
psychological space, Compliance only chases cheap, 
based-on-a-true-story chills.
But both of these ?lms directly address what a good ?lm 
festival can do. Neighboring Sounds, the ?rst ?lm from 
director Kleber Mendona Filho, features actors that are 
not recognizable to an American audience, even one 
with some ?lm literacy. It may never even be released on 
DVD in the U.S.
There is a certain thrill to knowing that we may never 
see something again. Neighboring Sounds allows us to 
see into every corner of its characters lives  even their 
dreams. We spend more than two hours wondering if a 
dog is dead, watching awkward condominium meetings, 
experiencing a mothers crushing boredom  and then 
one of the 10 best ?lms of the year is gone. 
This feeling  that the images will 
bounce off the screen and vanish 
forever  is one that escapes this 
generation. But something like the 
Three Rivers Film Festival is capable 
of addressing that urgency.
Compliance, on the other hand, 
represents all that can go wrong 
with indie ?lmmaking. It begins 
with a loud font announcing that 
the events of the movie really happened. 
Instead of using the true story as a 
way to explore nuance and character 
psychology, director Craig Zobel hides                                                                 
behind the banner of realism.
The ?lm asks the viewer if they would 
stop sexual assault if they saw it, or if they 
would blindly follow authority all the way to 
committing a felony. Its a great conundrum 
that is played beautifully by the cast, but its 
cheapened by a script with an incredibly 
embarrassing disdain for working-class 
intelligence. All of it hides behind that giant 
font, screaming based on a true story. None 
of this takes into account the disastrous 
structural decision to reveal the prank caller 
halfway through the ?lm, destroying the 
movies solid point of view. 
Three Rivers Film Festival offers ?lm nirvana with two weeks worth of cinematic treasures
Three local movie theaters showcase independent ?lms at discounted prices, bring widely unfamiliar gems to the screen in celebration of independent cinema
                  Rachel Cohen | Pillbox Editor
by Matthew Zurcher | Staffwriter[]
Despite Compliance being a less-than-enjoyable movie, 
the Three Rivers Film Festival allows audiences to see 
uncommon releases on actual projected ?lm.
The world of cinema is changing. In most contemporary 
?lm festivals, less than half of the exhibitions are shown 
on celluloid. Hearing the chugging rhythm of 
the projector and seeing 
weird jumps and 
objects on the 
screen is 
a small 
price 
to 
pay 
for 
the 
crisp, 
thick 
technicolor of ?lm stock. 
Were 
lucky to still have a 
few venues in Pittsburgh that 
are willing to show works with 
?lm stock.
The last week of the festival is dense with 
exciting, 
rare opportunities. On Monday, Carl Theodor 
Dreyers horror masterpiece Vampyr will be 
screened at 8 p.m. at the Regent Square Theater (only 
a short 61A or B ride away). Vampyr is a touchstone of 
fringe, avant-garde ?lmmaking, seemingly immune to 
age. Not only is this a chance to see a great ?lm rarely 
available for projection, but it will be accompanied live 
by English musician Steven Severin of Souxsie and the 
Banshees, playing a new score he composed speci?cally 
for the movie.
Wednesday marks one  of the most exciting screenings 
in the entire festival. Leos Caraxs Holy Motors will 
have its Pittsburgh premiere at 7:30 p.m. at the Harris 
Theater in Downtown. Holy Motors has been almost 
unanimously hailed as a 
genius achievement,  
charming festival 
audiences around the world.
The movie stars French favorite Denis Lavant, as 
well as Kylie Minogue and Eva Mendes. From the bits 
and pieces released online, its clear that Holy Motors 
is energized by the electricity of insanity. Halls full 
of accordion players, movies inside of movies, and 
charismatic schizophrenics line the edges of the ?lm, 
obviously so steeped in vitriol and disdain that this 
hatred becomes charming.
The festival ?nishes next weekend with a few big 
events. The Competitive Shorts Program takes place 
at 7 p.m. Friday night in the Melwood Screening 
Room. Eleven short ?lms representing a diverse range 
of ?lmmaking styles and regions will be presented in 
Film Schedule 11.12 through 11.17
Monday
Arrugas. Regent Square Theater 
(1035 South Braddock Ave.). 7 p.m.
Barbara. Regent Square Theater. 9 p.m.
Tuesday
My Name is Ki. Harris Theater (809 Liberty Ave.). 7 p.m.
Vampyr with live music by Steven Severin. Regent 
Square Theater. 8 p.m.
Night Across the Street. Melwood Screening Room 
(477 Melwood Ave.). 8 p.m.
Wednesday
80 Million. Regent Square Theater. 7 p.m.
Films of Lillian Schwartz. Melwood Screening Room. 
7 p.m.
Holy Motors. Harris Theater. 7:30 p.m.
Leviathan. Regent Square Theater. 9:15 p.m.
Thursday
Nickys Family. Regent Square Theater. 7 p.m.
Pittsburgh Dad and The Mercury Men. 
Harris Theater. 7:30 p.m.
Kid-Thing. Melwood Screening Room. 8 p.m.
Ginger & Rosa. Regent Square Theater. 9:15 p.m.
Friday
Competitive Shorts Program with Reception. 
Melwood Screening Room. 7 p.m.
Ginger & Rosa. Regent Square Theater. 7 p.m.
Shun Li and the Poet. Harris Theater. 7 p.m.
My Worst Nightmare. Harris Theater. 9:15 p.m.
80 Million. Regent Square Theater. 9:30 p.m.
Miami Connection. Melwood Screening Room. 11 p.m.
Saturday
El Cap Report. Melwood Screening Room. Noon.
Night Across the Street. Harris Theater. 2 p.m.
Competitive Shorts Program. Melwood Screening Room. 
2:30 p.m.
My Worst Nightmare. Harris Theater. 4 p.m.
Not Just for Kids: Keaton and Arbuckle with The Alloy 
Orchestra. Regent Square Theater. 4 p.m.
The Overcoat with The Alloy Orchestra. 
Regent Square Theater. 8 p.m.
Rachel Cohen | Pillbox Editor

There is a certain thrill to knowing we may never 
see something again.

---------------------------------------------------

10food
pillbox 11.12.12
If youre looking for a restaurant with lounge music, 
an older crowd, and expensive food, Spoon is a good 
place to start.
Located at 134 South Highland Ave., Spoon is 
approximately 30 minutes from campus by foot and 
six minutes by car. The price of its appetizers ranges 
from $7 to $14, and the price of entres goes from 
$14 to $38.
A tip for eating at any restaurant: If the bread is 
good, the napkins are towels, and the placemats 
are fancy, then the food will likely be delicious but 
expensive. Spoon is dimly lit to create a romantic 
atmosphere and has a beige curtain going across 
half the room, so you could reserve the space behind 
the curtain for a formal event. Spoon also has a 
?replace surrounded by couches for those waiting to 
be seated. Each door has a long, intricate spoon for 
a handle.
This meal consisted of the $9 roasted kabocha 
squash soup appetizer, the $25 pork three-ways 
entre, the $5 roasted ?ngerling potatoes side, and 
$6 Sangria. If you want something to drink other 
than wine, Spoon may not be ideal: The restaurant 
mostly shelves wines, but it did have Wigle whiskey 
and some beers.
The staff served three different breads with the 
meal: cream cheese bread with chives, corn and dill 
bread, and fresh homemade baguettes. Sometimes 
the cream cheese bread had a mild dash of the 
topping that spiked the ?avor of the soft bun; other 
times, it was layered on thickly.
The kabocha squash soup would be better suited 
as a bread dip. It has a very thick consistency and 
a mustard-like ?avor, with pockets of meat and sour 
cream. Dipping the corn and dill bread in it is a bad 
idea, but if you dip the cream cheese bread in it, the 
?avors explode in your mouth.
The pork three-ways entre has a wide range of 
?avor, but only displays two ways of cooking pork, 
as opposed to the advertised three. The ?rst sample 
of pork was a marinated tenderloin sliced into thin 
strips with gravy drizzling, all on a bed of sauerkraut 
and green beans. The bedding had a distinct lemon 
?avor to contrast with the peppered pork.
The second sample was called a pork belly haluski. 
The meat was soft on the inside and faintly crunchy 
on the outside. Resting on a bed of noodles and 
bacon, it tasted like savory chicken with a bit of oil, 
and resembled lamb. Between the two meats lay a 
caramelized ?g, which can be a nasty surprise if one  
expects another piece of meat.
Overall, the restaurant staff presents its food in a 
loving and appetizing manner, accenting the ?ner 
parts of a dish by laying them on top of the other 
food. Each piece contributed to the ?avor as a whole, 
and if one part was unappealing, there was always 
another part to turn to.
Although the food is impeccable, the service at 
Spoon is less so. At least twice, waiters and waitress 
dropped dishes in the background. The bar service, 
however, was pleasant and attentive. One of the 
bartenders was cheery, although she kept dropping 
dishes.
Spoon is expensive and relatively far from campus, 
but it serves food that is diverse in ?avor; its best for 
formal events or special nights out. Overall, it rates 
four out of ?ve spoons.
Jennifer Coloma | Operations Manager
Spoon is tasty yet ?awed
Spotty service, high prices countered by amazing ?avors
The food at Spoon offers an incredible explosion of 
flavors that is diverse and different.
Jennifer Coloma | Operations Manager
Catherine Spence| Staffwriter
Did you know?
100years ago
November 27, 1912
Psychology professor Libbey shared 
his views on women during a lecture 
earlier in the week, explaining that 
women were slaves of whim and 
caprice. The only upside to the rant is 
the reaction of Libbeys male students, 
who take offense to his ignorant 
remarks.
50years ago
December 5, 1962
The Womens Dorm Council sponsors 
the education of Gloria Emma Villar, a 
12-year-old girl living in the Philippines. 
While Villars family was already 
struggling to pay for her schooling, 
her father left after her mother was 
diagnosed with tuberculosis. Each 
month, a member of the council writes 
to Villar, and her responses are posted 
in the Morewood Gardens elevators.
25years ago
November 10, 1987
The headline CMU Student Found 
Dead bluntly announces the death of 
junior statistics major Thomas Lee 
Godfrey. A jogger found his body under 
the Schenley Park Bridge around 8 
a.m., about five hours after he had 
apparently jumped from the bridge. 
10years ago
November 11, 2002
A new boathouse opens in the Millvale 
Township on the Allegheny River, and 
the Carnegie Mellon Rowing Club 
is granted access to the space for 
training. The facility features weight 
rooms, dry rowing machines, and 
meeting areas alongside indoor 
circulating water-rowing simulators.
Members will use the center in 
addition to the teams home bay at 
Washingtons Landing on Herr Island.
5years ago
November 12, 2007
The swim team competes at Grove 
City College and finishes with big 
victories for the womens and 
mens swimming and diving teams. 
Traditionally, Grove Citys Wolverines 
are one of Carnegie Mellons biggest 
swimming rivals, but with the loss 
of many Grove City upperclassmen, 
Carnegie Mellon dominates the 
weekend competition.
1year ago
November 7, 2011
SciTech briefs help students avoid 
stress. A Swedish study found that 
people who use transit to commute for 
under half an hour are less stressed 
than those who walk or bike to work. 
In the study, the group that drove or 
rode public transit for over 30 minutes 
had the most stress.

---------------------------------------------------

puzzles
pillbox 11.12.1211
Solutions from Nov. 05, 2012
CrosswordEasy DifficultyVery Hard Difficulty
Kakuro Puzzle: Easy Difficulty Sudoku Puzzle: Medium Difficulty
Sudoku courtesy of www.opensky.ca/~jdhildeb/software/
sudokugen/
Kakuro courtesy of www.krazydad.com/kakuro
Fill all empty squares using numbers 1 to 9 so the sum of 
each row equals the clue on its left, and the sum of each 
column equals the clue on its top. No number may be used 
in the same row or column more than once.

---------------------------------------------------

12comics
pillbox 11.12.12
Stick Cats #10 by Nick Marino & Katie Henderson
  Online at www.nickmarino.netnickmarino@gmail.com
PhD Comics by Jorge Cham
jorge@phdcomics.com
Least I Could Do by Rayan Sohmer and Lar Desouzasohmer@leasticoulddo.com
  Online at www.licd.com and www.lfgcomics.com

---------------------------------------------------

comics
pillbox 11.12.1213
poorlydrawnlines@gmail.com
  Online at www.poorlydrawnlines.com
Like
Like us on Facebook and be 
entered to win a Finals Survival 
Prize pack! Once we reach 600 
Likes, we will have a drawing 
to give away a gift basket filled 
with everything you need to get 
through the happiest time of the 
year.on
Organ Order by Doghouse Diaries
doghousediaries@gmail.com

---------------------------------------------------

14horoscopes 
pillbox 11.12.12
1. On the briny
2. Scottish boys
3. Skedaddles
4. Unfavorable
5. Brie base
6. Greek vowels
7. Spring month
8. Ticks off
9. Beef portion
10. Go along with
11. Pole, for one
12. Accent
13. Tsp. and tbsp.
21. Encouraging word
23. Cornerstone abbr.
26. Kool-Aid maker
27. Lunar valley
28. Like Wrigley Fields walls
29. Collection of maps
30. Having jaws
31. Incite
32. Hit back, perhaps
33. Approvals
36. Stage hog
42. Phantom
43. Kiln
44. Hates intensely
45. Vagabond
47. Hollywood Squares win
49. Feline
52. Roman god of war
53. Busy as ____
54. Actor Auberjonois
55. Swill
56. Red flower
57. Banned apple spray
58. What you do to a joint, prior to a heist
59. Afternoon affairs
62. ___ kwon do
1. Pond organism
5. Big rigs
10. The Thin Man dog
14. Stated
15. Pong maker
16. Grab, slangily
17. 1999 Ron Howard film
18. Stratum
19. Tirade
20. Maintains
22. Arm coverings
24. Thor Heyerdahl craft
25. Sugar suffix
26. Hindu deity
30. Jumpy
34. Tear apart
35. Actor Hawke
37. Arch type
38. Clay, today
39. Legal science
40. Beetle juice?
41. Make an escape
43. Celebrated
45. Sotto ____
46. Tiresome
48. Pours off leaving sediment
50. Type of mouse
51. Childrens game
52. Strands
56. Withdraw
60. Explorer Tasman
61. Choir members
63. Winglike parts
64. City in Western Nevada
65. Seashore
66. Mission control gp.
67. Witnessed
68. Sporting blades
69. Very, in Vichy
ACROSSDOWN
Horoscopes
aries
march 21april 19
Youre not a quitter, but there are times when you should 
stop what youre doing and change your direction for the 
sake of your overall well-being.
taurus
april 20may 20
Take a long look in the mirror, and ask the questions whose 
answers are not pleasant to hear.
gemini
may 21june 21
Your strong personality, while key to defining who you are, 
can be intimidating to others. The next time you interact 
with someone new, be a bit more mindful of how you come 
off.
cancer
june 22july 22
Put some clothes on. Its cold out, and a sweater with 
sandals and shorts just looks stupid.
leo
july 23aug. 22 
Sorry, youre wrong.
virgo
aug. 23sept. 22
Is your life extraordinary or extra ordinary? Remember: Its 
all a matter of perception. If things are not what you would 
like them to be, try changing how you see the situation.
libra
sept. 23oct. 22
Do something crazy this week. Break the routine and let 
your hair down.
scorpio
oct. 23nov. 21
The holidays are coming up soon. Make sure that those 
whom you love really know how you feel about them. 
Express your love in a big way, and watch their hearts fill 
with joy.
sagittarius
nov. 22dec. 21
Youre losing sight of who you are in the search for who you 
want to be. Take a step back, get the facts straight, and 
move ahead.
capricorn
dec. 22jan. 19
Rivers know this: There is no hurry. We shall get there 
some day.  A.A. Milne, Winnie-the-Pooh
aquarius
jan. 20feb. 18
As silly as it seems sometimes, you must believe that 
good things are on their way. Good things happen to good 
people, and your reward is coming.
pisces
feb. 19march 20
Your key to success lies in patience, perseverance, and 
potential promise.
Nicole Hamilton | Comics Editor
Crossword courtesy of BestCrosswords.com

---------------------------------------------------

calendar
pillbox 11.12.1215
MONDAY11.12.12
David Rees. McConomy Auditorium. 5:30 p.m.
Cartoonist and humorist David Rees, known for pairing 
stock images with controversial statements to make 
people laugh, will give a lecture sponsored by AB 
Lectures. Rees recently published his satirical book, How 
to Sharpen Pencils, a self-described emotional memoir.
TUESDAY11.13.12
Pittsburgh Moth StorySLAM: Taking Sides. 
Rex Theater (1602 East Carson St.). 8 p.m.
Come watch or partake in this storytelling session, in 
which each selected volunteer will have ?ve minutes 
to tell his or her tale as part of this series of open-mic 
storytelling competitions. The Moth is a national nonpro?t 
organization dedicated to the art of storytelling. The event 
is 21+.
WEDNESDAY11.14.12
An Evening with Barbara Ehrenreich. GRW Theatre, 
Point Park University Center (201 Wood St.). 6 p.m.
Political activist and author Barbara Ehrenreich will give 
a lecture at Point Park University as part of the Global 
Cultural Studies Public Speakers Series. Ehrenreich is the 
author of the The New York Times bestseller Nickel and 
Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America.
THURSDAY11.15.12
Support the Childrens School at Ten Thousand 
Villages. Ten Thousand Villages (5824 Forbes Ave.). 
6 p.m.
Support the Carnegie Mellon Childrens School by 
shopping at Ten Thousand Villages, where a percentage 
of all purchases will bene?t the Childrens School 
Scholarship Fund.
Paul Luc. The Underground. 7:30 p.m.
Pittsburgh indie folk singer-songwriter Paul Luc will give a 
concert sponsored by AB Underground. The event is free 
and open to the public.
FRIDAY11.16.12
Colored Cosmopolitan: The Shared Struggle for 
Freedom in the United States & India. 
Steinberg Auditorium (Baker A53). 4:30 p.m.
Assistant professor of history Nico Slate will give a lecture 
and lead a discussion as part of the lecture series, hosted 
by the Center for African-American Urban Studies & the 
Economy.
SATURDAY11.17.12
B-Tracks. 6119 (6119 Penn Ave.). 9:30 p.m.
Boston-based DJ duo B-Tracks will perform at 6119, 
mixing its own music into house and techno vinyl tracks. 
The show is sponsored by Pittsburgh-based electronic 
music collective Detour.
ONGOING
Three Rivers Film Festival. Various locations. Through 
Nov. 17.
This years Three Rivers Film Festival features over 
50 ?lms, showing at the Harris Theater, the Melwood 
Screening Room, and the Regent Square Theater. A 
complete schedule and more information is available at 
3rff.com.
White Cube, Green Maze. Carnegie Museum of Art. 
Through Jan. 13.
The exhibit includes models and drawings by architects 
and landscape architects who have worked on 
collaborative projects, focusing on six sites from around 
the world.
Feminist and...The Mattress Factory. Through May 26.
This exhibit features works by six female artists from 
around the world, aiming to show that feminism is a 
multivocal, multigenerational, and multicultural movement, 
not a single-issue set of political beliefs.
Inventing the Modern World: Decorative Arts at the 
Worlds Fairs, 1851-1939. Carnegie Museum of Art. 
Through Feb. 24.
This exhibit features works ranging from jewelry to 
furniture that showcase the changing tastes in aesthetics 
and design within the span of nearly nine decades.
Compiled by Allison Cosby | Staffwriter 
Want your event here?
Email calendar@thetartan.org.

---------------------------------------------------

16feature
pillbox 11.12.12
Jonathan Leung | Staff Photographer
Junior art and global studies double major Jennifer Soracco and junior 
Bachelor of Humanities and Arts student Anna Shepperson presented  
their digital media installation Squish at the Frame Gallery from Nov. 
3 through Saturday. The gallery, which showcases student artwork, is 
located at the corner of Forbes and Margaret Morrison avenues.
Squish.
