PILLBOX
Carnegie Mellons student newspaper since 1906
SCITECH
Pittsburgh pilots science ambassador program   A4
BOC/TOC
Special issue: Suit up for this weeks career fairs  B1Feminist And... opens at Mattress Factory  C9
thetartan.org
@thetartan
September 10, 2012
Volume 107, Issue 3
MADELYN GLYMOUR
News Editor 
JENNIFER COLOMA 
Operations Manager
Students living in Margaret Morrison, Roselawn, and 
Woodlawn Apartments  the 
housing area known as the 
Intersection  are upset over 
an upheaval in their laundry 
service.
Intersection residents, who 
have until now done their 
laundry in the facilities on the 
?rst ?oor of the Margaret Morrison Plaza, were moved to a 
room in the basement of Hamerschlag House on Aug. 31 to 
make way for a new dining 
location. Hamerschlag residents laundry facilities have 
been moved to a former storage room in the main Hamerschlag building. Intersection 
residents key cards have been 
adjusted to allow them access 
to the Hamerschlag basement.
According to Director of 
Housing and Dining Services 
Director Kim Abel, the new 
dining location is one component of a larger plan to 
renovate and update Carnegie Mellon dining, which also 
includes a patio addition to 
Resnik and a new faade for 
Margaret Morrison. Abel said 
that Housing and Dining Services hopes to create a more 
communal space in Margaret 
Morrison, and that the laundry room made the most sense 
to remove.
The laundry was a service that we believed that we 
could relocate and continue to 
provide similar, proximal service, Abel said. She believes 
that the new laundry accommodations are very similar to 
the old ones.
But many residents see the 
move as a sudden, unrequested, and unpleasant change. 
Among their concerns, they 
note that the Hamerschlag 
facility is farther away; that it 
contains fewer washing machines and dryers, not all of 
which currently work; that it 
is poorly lit and not well temperature-controlled; and  that 
Hamerschlag residents can access it through an emergency 
exit, which could be a safety 
concern. Above all, residents 
feel they were not properly 
consulted or warned about the 
change.
On Aug. 31, residents received an email from Housing 
and Dining Facilities Director 
Louis McCauley that informed 
them that their laundry room 
was closed, and that they were 
now to do their laundry in a 
room in the basement of Hamerschlag. For some, such as junior creative writing and professional writing double major 
Rachel Bullen of Roselawn, it 
was the ?rst of?cial con?rmation they had heard about the 
change. Other residents heard 
about the change at R.A. meetings during the ?rst week of 
school.
After Bullen and her housemate, junior directing major 
JUSTIN MCGOWN
Online Editor
Several companies are 
rolling out a new strategy for 
marketing on campus this semester: student ambassadors. 
Sony, Google, Microsoft, Red 
Bull, and possibly others all 
have student representatives 
on campus. These students 
are usually paid employees of 
the corporations and receive 
training, goods for demonstration or distribution, and 
support from other trained 
representatives in networks 
spread across campuses nationwide.
Some student ambassadors are tasked with organizing and executing promotional events as well as acting as 
the heads of the local social 
media scene. These representatives can act as the spearhead for marketing strategies 
and events.
Maddie Horowitz, a sophomore computer science major, is a Microsoft Student 
Partner. Her ?rst task was to 
set up a Facebook group for 
people interested in Microsoft 
products on campus.
Carnegie Mellon students 
are pretty interested in this 
sort of thing, Horowitz said, 
noting that in a competition 
among a hundred Microsoft 
Student Partners to get the 
most likes for their campus 
Facebook pages, the one she 
started had an early lead 
compared to those at larger 
schools.
The most common reaction people have when they 
hear Im a partner is, Oh, 
does that mean youre interning for them this summer?  
Horowitz said of the attitude 
toward ambassadors. I think 
its a really good idea to hear 
this sort of info from a friend 
or other student instead of 
just a random person.
Horowitz is involved in 
continual training with Microsoft products, and will 
soon be joined by another 
Student Partner on campus.
The representatives of 
Google on campus are junior 
electrical and chemical engineering major Beth Anne 
Katz and senior computer 
science major Brenda Lee. As 
Google Ambassadors, they 
have similar tasks to Horowitz with competing products. 
Together, they both expressed 
enthusiasm for the Google 
corporate structure and some 
of the upcoming products 
they have been briefed on, including a service that collects 
photos from events taken by 
different people.
JENNIFER COLOMA
Operations Manager
This year, Carnegie Mellons Dining Services added 
?ve new venues and adjusted 
two existing venues. Creperie, 
Stackers, Nakama Express, 
Worlds of Flavor, and El Gallo 
de Oro are all new eateries. 
Evgefstos hours were also 
adjusted so that students 
could eat there between 5 
p.m. and 8 p.m., and Dining 
Services expanded the Schatz 
breakfast menu to include 
sandwiches.
Creperie is located in the 
UC Marketplace, between the 
existing Downtown Deli and 
Spinning Salads. At Creperie, students can select what 
ingredients and toppings go 
onto their crepe and then 
watch a chef make it. 
Both Stackers, a sandwich 
venue, and Nakama Express, 
a sushi venue, are located in 
the Resnik food court. Worlds 
of Flavor is in the Tartan Pavilion and El Gallo de Oro is on 
the ?rst ?oor of the University 
Center, in the former location 
of S Seor.
I think its good that 
theres more variety and that 
theyre trying to keep things 
interesting every year, said 
Erik Pintar, a sophomore electrical and computer engineering major.
According to Kim Abel, the 
Director of Housing and Dining Services, the decision to 
add these new eateries, and 
make some adjustments to 
existing ones, was made over 
the years and is a continuous 
process. She said there was 
no exact point in time when 
they came to the decision to 
speci?cally add the Creperie, 
Stackers, Worlds of Flavor, or 
Nakama Express.
We are continuously trying to improve our venue options, Abel said.
Theyre probably going 
with the trends, Lina Pulgarin, ?rst-year physics major, said of Creperie being 
added. Its kinda like going 
through a cupcake trend, cake 
trend, etc. Now theyre going 
through a crepe trend.
According to Abel, Dining 
Services added these new options because of student feedback and trends. Venues like 
Creperie are a trend at other 
universities, and Dining Services felt it would be a good 
addition to the campus.
Of Creperie, Pintar said, I 
think the food is delicious but 
the portions are small.
Other dining changes were 
made for different reasons. 
Abel said that S Seor was 
switched out for El Gallo de 
Oro in response to student 
feedback concerning Si Seor 
and students appreciation of 
Mexican food. Worlds of Flavor, on the other hand, was 
added because of the positive 
response students gave to last 
years Take Comfort promotion on Tuesday nights.
Stackerz was actually 
something that one of the 
chefs came up with, Abel 
said. Students really get to 
choose what they want to eat. 
They can pick each ingredient.
Nakama Express is the new 
sushi eatery in Resnik, located 
where Sushi Too used to exist.
[Nakama Express] was 
good. They made me what I 
wanted. It was custom sushi, 
Katy Wells, ?fth-year senior 
global studies major, said of 
the new sushi venue. 
Laundry change angers Intersection residents
CMU dining uses its noodleStudents advertise at CMU
Adelaide Cole/Art Editor
The number of companies represented at the BOC has been declining since 2008. In four years, the number 
has dropped by over 50 percent. For more information, see Section B.
See LAUNDRY, A3
Jonathan Carreon/Photo Editor
Top: The laundry room on the ?rst ?oor of Margaret Morrison Apartments, which has been vacant since Aug. 31. Bottom: The laundry room in the 
basement of Hamerschlag, which Intersection residents must now use. The Intersection laundry room is to be replaced by a new dining location.
Kate Groschner/Staff Photographer
Worlds of Flavor, formerly a popular theme night at Take Comfort, is now a permanent dining location.
FEATURE INFOGRAPHICMore companies skipping BOC
See AMBASSADOR, A3

---------------------------------------------------

A2  thetartan.org/news The Tartan  September 10, 2012
BME Seminar: Paul 
Janmey
Tuesday at 4:30 p.m. 
Margaret Morrison 103
University of Pennsylvania physiology professor Paul 
Janmey will deliver a talk on 
the modulation of integrindependent mechanotransduction by hyaluronic acid. 
The talk will cover cells that 
change structure and function depending on the makeup of the surface they adhere 
to.
Amy Goodman
Thursday at 7 p.m. 
McConomy Auditorium
Amy Goodman will deliver a lecture as part of her 
tour promoting her book, The 
Silenced Majority: Stories of 
Uprisings, Occupations, Resistance, and Hope. Goodman 
is an investigative journalist 
and syndicated columnist, as 
well as the host of the radio 
show Democracy Now! The 
show can be heard on WRCT 
88.3. The event is free and 
open to the public, but a $10 
donation is suggested at the 
door, with proceeds to bene?t Pittsburgh Community 
Television and the Pittsburgh 
Campaign for Democracy 
Now.
Imperfect Health: 
The Medicalization of 
Architecture
Friday at 4:30 p.m. 
Miller Gallery
Exhibit curators Mirko 
Zardini and Giovanna Borasi 
will host a tour of the new 
Imperfect Health exhibit at 
the Miller Gallery. The exhibit features works that 
demonstrate the connection 
between design and health, 
and includes  works of photography, sculpture, video, 
architectural models, and 
design projects. Event coordinators request that attendees 
RSVP at the exhibits Facebook page.
LTI Colloquium: Eduard 
Hovy
Friday at 2:30 p.m. 
Doherty Hall 2315
Professor Eduard Hovy of 
Carnegie Mellons Language 
Technologies Institute will 
deliver a lecture titled NLP: 
Its Past and 3.5 Possible Futures. The talk will focus 
on what Hovy says are three 
diverging trends in the ?eld 
of computational linguistics: 
resource creation, learning, 
and large-scale hacking.
Hovy holds professorships 
at universities in China, Korea, and Canada. He has authored or co-edited six books 
and over 300 articles, and 
served as the 2001 president 
of the Association for Computational Linguistics.
Robotics Seminar: David 
Pynadath
Friday at 3:30 p.m. 
Mauldin Auditorium  
(Gates Hillman 1305)
University of Southern 
California research scientist 
David Pynadath will give a 
talk titled Modeling Social 
Reasoning Through Recursive, Decision-Theoretic Planning. Pynadath will describe 
PsychSim, an architecture for 
modeling human decisionmaking that attempts to capture the reasoning people use 
when interacting with others.
Pynadath is the creator of 
PsychSim.  The architecture 
is used to deploy simulations 
to teach people how to operate in social environments.
Compiled by
MADELYN GLYMOUR
Corrections & Clari?cations 
If you would like to submit a correction or clari?cation, please email The Tartan at news@thetartan.org or 
editor@thetartan.org with your inquiry, as well as the 
date of the issue and the name of the article. We will 
print the correction or clari?cation in the next print issue and publish it online.
Lecture Preview
Last Thursday, it was announced that Justine Cassell 
will be of?cially appointed 
as the Charles M. Geschke 
Director of the Human-Computer Interaction Institute 
(HCII).
The ceremony is set to 
take place on campus on 
Monday from 4 to 6 p.m. in 
the Asian Students Association Conference Room (Gates 
Center 6115).
Cassell has served as HCII 
director since 2010, but the 
post as director has now been 
of?cially endowed by Adobe 
Systems, Inc. co-founder and 
Carnegie Mellon Ph.D. recipient Charles M. Geschke and 
his wife.
Cassells research looks 
into computer systems that 
utilize conversation and storytelling to enhance human 
communication skills and 
learning. In addition, Cassell 
has developed the Embodied 
Conversational Agent (ECA), 
which is capable of communicating with humans using 
both verbal and nonverbal interaction. The ECA has been 
researched as a virtual peer 
for children, and autistic children in particular.
Last January, Cassell 
spoke at the World Economic Forum in Davos, and 
was awarded the Anita Borg 
Institutes Women of Vision 
Award. She also chairs one of 
the World Economic Forum 
Global Agenda Councils.
Compiled by
BRENT HEARD 
MADELYN GLYMOUR
Carnegie Mellon Provost 
Mark Kamlet will take part 
in a panel at the World 
Economic Forum (WEF) on 
Wednesday.
Though most WEF panels 
are closed to the public and 
press, this panel, The Future 
of Education, will be webcast 
live at 5:15 a.m. EST. Former 
U.K. Prime Minister Gordon 
Brown will also be on the 
panel, which will discuss the 
mobilization of information 
technology, interdisciplinary 
approaches, and the value of 
universities.
This is the second time 
Carnegie Mellon has been 
represented at the summer 
meeting of the WEF (known 
as Summer Davos in 
recognition of the fact that 
the winter WEF meeting 
traditionally occurs in Davos, 
Switzerland). 
In 2011, Carnegie Mellon 
faculty presented at both 
the summer and winter WEF 
meetings. This week, ?ve 
WEF panels, including The 
Future of Education, will 
contain presentations by 
Carnegie Mellon faculty or 
administrators. 
Among the panelists and 
presenters at the meeting are 
art professor Golan Levin; 
computer science professors 
Jeanette Wing amd Emma 
Brunskill; and Jesse Schell, 
an entertainment technology 
professor.
The theme of this weeks 
Summer Davos meeting, 
running this Tuesday through 
Thursday, is Creating the 
Future Economy.
CAMPUS NEWS IN BRIEF
HCII of?cially appoints new Geschke director CassellProvost to participate in live webcast of WEF panel
WEATHER
TUESDAY
High / Low
76 / 53
WEDNESDAY
High / Low
82 / 58
THURSDAY
High / Low
85 / 62
FRIDAY
High / Low
82 / 63
SATURDAY
High / Low
80 / 62
DUI Arrest
Sept. 2, 2012
University Police conducted a traf?c stop on a speeding 
vehicle on Forbes Avenue and 
found the driver visibly intoxicated. Proper testing and procedure con?rmed the of?cers 
observations. 
The 36-year-old nonCarnegie Mellon af?liate was 
placed under arrest and will 
be charged with driving under 
the in?uence of alcohol, in addition to speeding.
Theft
Sept. 2, 2012
University Police were 
summoned to Skibo Caf to 
take a report for stolen sandwich boards. The staff stated 
the sandwich boards were 
last seen on Aug. 29 at 9 a.m. 
The poster was reported missing last Sunday at 2 p.m. The 
sandwich poster boards were 
positioned outside of the University Center on the sidewalk 
and are said to be 2x4 feet in 
size. This case remains under 
investigation.
Theft
Sept. 2, 2012
University Police were 
summoned to the intramural 
?eld for an ID card theft report. The victim stated that 
he had his student ID card sitting on his cell phone, which 
was placed at the side of the 
IM ?eld while he played soccer. The victim stated that his 
ID card and phone were unattended from 6 to 7 p.m. The 
victims cell phone was found 
where he left it, but the ID 
card was gone. This investigation is ongoing.
Alcohol Amnesty
Sept. 3, 2012
University Police of?cers 
responded to Gesling Stadium to assist with a Carnegie 
Mellon student found unconscious outside the Tartan Pavilion. 
City medics were called 
to the scene and completed a 
transport to the hospital for 
further medical treatment. Alcohol Amnesty applies to this 
incident.
Underage Drinking/Public 
Urination
Sept. 3, 2012
A University Police of?cer 
on patrol observed a Carnegie 
Mellon student urinating in 
the front yard of a Forbes Avenue residence. The male was 
under the age of 21 and found 
to be intoxicated. The male 
will be cited for his offenses.
Public Intoxication
Sept. 3, 2012
University Police intervened in an argument among 
three males in the University 
Center parking lot. 
The three males agreed 
that the ?ght was not malicious in nature. One of the 
males was emotionally upset 
and visibly intoxicated, and 
the other two males were attempting  to get him home 
safely. 
All three males were released; one male will receive 
a citation for public intoxication.
Theft
Sept. 5, 2012
Last Wednesday, Facilities 
Management Service (FMS) 
employees reported that power tools were taken from the 
locked storage boxes mounted 
on four FMS vehicles. The 
vehicles were parked by the 
FMS dock over the Labor Day 
weekend. This incident is under investigation.
Campus Crime & Incident Reports
Jonathan Carreon/Photo Editor
Students gather at the Amnesty International table at the Activities Fair on Wednesday. Despite the high temperatures and little cloud cover, the fair 
was well attended; the CFA lawn was ?lled with students looking to sign up for clubs and organizations.
Statistically Speaking
The past two weeks saw national politics take the 
forefront of news coverage, with the Republican and 
Democratic National Conventions being held to of?-
cially select the parties candidates for President of the 
United States. Here are some statistics about this years 
party nomination conventions:
15,000
65,000
5,556
The number of delegates at the Democratic National Convention.
2,012,380
The number of views Clint Eastwoods speech received 
on the gopconvention2012 of?cial YouTube channel.
Compiled by 
BRENT HEARD
Sources: youtube.com, 
thegreenpapers.com, 
gopconvention2012.com,  
anddemconvention.com
Source: www.weather.com
FEATURE PHOTOStudents brave heat at Activities FairThe number of members of the media estimated to have been in 
attendance of the Republican National Convention.
The number of people who obtained credentials to hear 
Obamas acceptance speech.

---------------------------------------------------

September 10, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/news  A3
Andrea Beschel, circulated a 
petition to stop the move, McCauley attended a previously 
scheduled Margaret Morrison 
safety meeting to hear questions and concerns. 
Bullen and Beschel said 
they believe the meeting was 
in response to a large number 
of individual emails to McCauley and Abel from Intersection residents protesting 
the change.
According to Bullen, McCauley said during the meeting that the maker of the 
laundry machines, Caldwell 
& Gregory, had done the 
math, and determined that 
one washing machine and 
dryer are necessary for every 
38 people.
The meeting at Margaret 
Morrison was pretty much, 
Were sorry we didnt tell 
you, but this makes sense,  
Bullen said.
McCauley arranged for a 
meeting of himself, Abel, and 
a group of representatives 
from the Intersection this 
week to discuss options. Abel 
said that Housing and Dining 
is not committed to a plan, or 
to stopping the move, at this 
time.
There are lots of options 
that we can look at, Abel 
said. I want to make sure that 
I hear the students feedback.
Abel stressed that Housing and Dining is receptive to, 
and in fact actively seeks, student input.
We have always utilized 
student input in almost everything we do in Housing 
and Dining, Abel said. Some 
of its informal. Some of its 
through advisory groups. 
Some of its through our partnership with Student Senate.
 Abel mentioned that the 
Student Dormitory Council 
(SDC) and the Dining Advisory Committee are the 
two major student advisory 
groups that Housing and Dining consults.
But Beschel, who was also 
a resident of Roselawn last 
year, said that she doesnt 
feel that the affected students 
were even warned of the 
changes, let alone consulted.
A dining service is something that the community 
thats being affected doesnt 
need, Beschel said. Were 
not freshmen, were mostly 
not on a meal plan, we have 
our own kitchens. Beschel 
and Bullen both said that, although some people do support the new dining location, 
most Intersection residents 
theyve spoken to are opposed 
to the change. Their petition 
currently has 84 signatures 
out of about 140 Intersection 
residents.
According to Beschel and 
Bullen, an email was sent out 
to students last year advertising an open forum to discuss 
housing and dining changes, 
but the email only speci?cally 
mentioned the Resnik patio, 
not the possibility of a change 
in Intersection facilities.
Abel said that although 
Housing and Dining has been 
discussing the new dining 
location since last winter, it 
was unlikely that students 
were told about the upcoming 
change during room selection. I dont know, because 
the service is remaining the 
same, that that is something 
we would communicate, she 
said.
Im really annoyed they 
didnt talk to us, Bullen said. 
I just want to know where we 
go from here. I dont think we 
should stick to the original 
plan.
Beschel said that she feels 
that the lack of communication is unacceptable.
We really do want to have 
a neighborhood here where 
our opinions are respected, 
Beschel said. Were not here 
and gone, were here for four 
years, and we pay for that, 
and we deserve to be heard.
Despite the protests, Abel 
said that she is excited about 
the new plan for Housing and 
Dining. Were doing some 
really neat things with the 
renovations and the plans. 
Im hoping that we can move 
beyond this issue in a constructive way and get to the 
constructive part.
The petition to stop the 
move can be found at https://
www.change.org/petitions/
stop-the-laundry-move. The 
primary contact of the SDC, 
which represents students 
housing concerns on campus, 
is the SDC president, junior 
information systems major 
Nathan Hahn. The SDC meets 
every Wednesday at 8 p.m. in 
Breed Hall. Meetings are open 
to Carnegie Mellon residents.
Editors note: Rachel Bullen is a 
Tartan staff member.
Hung out to dry, students say
Lee said that the most 
common reaction to her position was Get me a job! Having interned at Google, both 
Lee and Katz were quick to 
sign up for the Ambassador 
position, but stressed that it 
was a position any interested 
student should pursue.
However, not everyone is 
particularly enamored with 
these programs.
Recently, nontraditional 
marketing strategies  especially those that use people 
as the means of distribution 
 have aroused controversy. 
One of the most prominent in 
recent years was the Homeless Hotspots, Wi-Fi connections provided by residents 
of a homeless shelter who 
received $20 a day and were 
told to distribute passwords 
to wireless transceivers they 
wore in exchange for tips.
This initiative, run by BBH 
Labs during the South By 
Southwest festival in Austin, 
Tx. this past March, was denounced by many bloggers 
and members of traditional 
media, although the homeless 
individuals and a director of 
the shelter told The New York 
Times they werent bothered 
and had a hard time understanding the outcry.
This form of advertisement is one with some unique 
challenges other than public 
perception. Google recently 
?red an employee who was 
promoting the new Chromebook in Best Buy after he 
posted pictures of his uniform, badge, and certi?cate of 
completed training on Reddit, 
along with some information 
about the product he would 
be working to sell, as documented by The Daily Dot. His 
actions were a breach of a 
nondisclosure agreement that 
was still in effect regarding 
his training and work. Google 
did not make an announcement regarding the sale of 
Chromebooks in Best Buy.
Both Horowitz for Microsoft and Lee and Katz for 
Google said that their superiors were reached mainly 
through online means: either 
conference calls to corporate 
headquarters (frequently at 
odd hours due to time zone 
differences) or emails. The 
organizational structures employed in the work do mean 
a lack of day-to-day oversight 
and high levels of implicit 
trust in the student representatives, and while Lee and 
Katz said they may be called 
upon to provide Google with 
information from time to 
time, gauging the ef?cacy of 
the program as a whole could 
prove challenging.
Student opinions on the 
advertising strategy are split. 
Some, like sophomore mechanical engineering major Faith Quist, are put off. 
Honestly, I think its kind of 
sleazy, Quist said. I dont 
think it would bother me all 
that much but I wouldnt do it 
myself. 
Quist said, recalling her 
summer job selling homework 
aids to students, I wouldnt 
want to do anything like that 
again.
Other students, however, took a somewhat more 
positive view. These are just 
students doing a job, Peter 
Masters, a sophomore international relations and environmental policy major, said 
in reaction to such promotional maneuvers, noting that 
student representatives are 
not nearly as controversial. 
I know some people were 
bothered by the Red Bull girls 
at the activities fair... [but]
I dont think it does any foul; 
its just a form of advertisement.
Ambassadors sell products
LAUNDRY, from A1
We really do want to have a 
neighborhood here where our 
opinions are respected. Were not 
here and gone, were here for four 
years, and we pay for that, and we 
deserve to be heard.
Andrea Beschel
Junior directing major
AMBASSADOR, from A1
Adelaide Cole/Art Editor

---------------------------------------------------

A4  thetartan.org/scitech The Tartan  September 10, 2012
VICKI CHENG
Staffwriter
A 2006 study by the National Science Board found 
that most Americans do not 
understand the scienti?c process and therefore may lack 
a valuable tool for assessing 
the validity of various claims 
they encounter in daily life. 
With this as motivation, 
Pittsburgh will serve as the 
pilot city this fall for the Science & Engineering Ambassador Program, which aims 
to better connect scientists 
and engineers to the local 
community.
Implemented by the National Academy of Science 
and National Academy of Engineering, the program consists of a team of science and 
engineering ambassadors 
who will work to improve the 
public understanding of and 
engagement with energy-related issues, according to the 
programs website.
The initial set of ambassadors has already been selected and is comprised of 
local scientists and engineers 
with areas of expertise related 
to the energy industry. These 
ambassadors come from both 
industry and nonpro?t organizations, and include professors from the University of 
Pittsburgh and Carnegie Mellon. In fact, four of the nine 
appointed ambassadors are 
af?liated with Carnegie Mellon; this group includes engineering and public policy professors Jay Apt and Edward 
Rubin, chemical engineering 
professor Neil Donahue, and 
materials science and engineering professor Robert 
Davis.
People are disconnected, 
from an engineering perspective, from the very things that 
they hold dear, Davis said. 
Davis acknowledged that 
there are existing challenges 
to connecting people with 
science, and in identifying 
problems such as lack of access, knowledge, and interest 
in understanding the science 
and technology that drives society today.
The program website explains that one of the reasons 
Pittsburgh was selected as a 
pilot city is due to the diversity 
of individuals and groups who 
are interested in the matter of 
energy. At least ?ve different 
energy sectors  including 
coal, gas, nuclear, solar, and 
wind  are represented in the 
region. The area also boasts 
a wealth of natural resources 
that continues to draw the 
interest of investors and researchers alike.  
In addition to the considerable industry presence in the 
area, Pittsburgh is also home 
to universities with a number 
of researchers focusing their 
efforts on energy issues. It is 
this combination of relevant 
industrial and academic presence that has made Pittsburgh a top contender for the 
program.
Davis likened the structure 
and goals of the ambassador 
program to a scienti?c experiment: The program will test 
whether increasing the visibility and availability of science 
and engineering experts will 
increase public engagement 
with scienti?c issues.
To bridge the gap, the 
program will provide training 
for the ambassadors in audio 
and visual communication 
with the intention of linking 
them with local professionals such as teachers, business 
leaders, or members of the 
media. 
Because the program is 
still in its infancy, there are 
still many unknowns about 
how to stimulate public interest and concern with issues 
of science, but Davis offered 
this thought: Well learn by 
doing. Well learn by trying, 
[to see] what  if anything  
works. But not trying is even 
worse.
Pittsburgh is pilot city for science ambassador program
Jonathan Carreon/Photo Editor
Materials science and engineering professor Robert Davis was selected as an ambassador in the upcoming 
Science & Engineering Ambassador Program, a program aiming to better connect scientists and engineers to 
the public.
MICHAEL SETZER
Assistant SciTech Editor
Whether it was a day at the 
beach, working in the yard, or 
being lazy by the pool, your 
skin had been subjected to the 
damaging effects of the suns 
ultraviolet (UV) rays. Your result  either a painful burn or 
a healthy glow  probably depended on the use of (or lack 
of) one indispensable item: 
sunscreen.
As its name suggests, sunscreen protects you from the 
suns harmful UV rays  
rays whose wavelengths are 
shorter than those of visible 
light. And while most of the 
suns rays are UV, our atmosphere and ozone layer are 
able to ?lter out much of this 
damaging radiation.
The UV light that gets by, 
however, is harmful to the 
DNA in our skin; it results in 
a tan (yes, tans are signs of 
damage), burns, or even skin 
cancer with chronic exposure. The three types of UV 
radiation are UV-A, UV-B, and 
UV-C, from longest to shortest wavelength, respectively. 
Of the three, UV-B rays are 
the ones that cause sunburn, 
while UV-A can cause damage 
within the skin, contributing 
to skin cancer.
If the sun leaves you with 
a nasty burn, its a sign that 
the UV-B rays have damaged 
your skin cells. According to 
Discovery Health, skin cells 
that are the most susceptible 
to burn are those without any 
sort of melatonin  typically 
found in Caucasians without 
any sort of tan. When these 
cells get damaged, the body 
increases blood ?ow to the 
dermis, the second layer of 
skin, to bring in new cells that 
will repair the damage.
Sunscreen protects the 
skin from this invisible light 
through its unique chemical 
composition of inorganic and 
organic materials. The inorganic particles, such as titanium dioxide and zinc oxide, 
act as a sort of UV armor. The 
small particles sit on the skin 
and re?ect the wavelengths 
of UV-B light. But many old 
sunscreens, since they depend 
primarily on inorganic materials, were thick and greasy.
Companies combat this 
issue with lighter, synthetic 
organic components that work 
by absorbing the UV light and 
then releasing the stored energy. According to a study by the 
University of Athens Medical 
School in Greece, these particles, such as octyl methoxycinnamate, gain energy when exposed to the UV rays and then 
release the energy through either heat release or isomerization  when a molecule rearranges its atoms. Additionally, 
many of the newer sunscreens 
have tiny inorganic particles 
of about 45 nanometers in 
size. For comparison, a sheet 
of paper is roughly 100,000 
nanometers thick.
The SPF on sunscreens, 
or Sun Protection Factor, is 
meant to give an estimate for 
the rate of UV-B absorption, 
as well as the duration of how 
long the sunscreen is effective. 
To determine the effective 
duration of sun protection, 
simply multiply the SPF by 
10. For example, SPF 10 will 
grant roughly 100 minutes of 
protection. 
However, in terms of UV-B 
absorption, there is a ceiling 
to the SPF: With SPF 45 protecting from 98 percent of 
the suns UV-B rays, anything 
greater is just silly, James 
Spenser, the spokesman for 
the American Academy of 
Dermatology, told WebMD.
For optimal skin safety, 
use the entire recommended 
dose of sunscreen. It might 
seem that sunscreen manufacturers just want people to 
use more of their product, but 
in a recent article published 
in International Journal of 
Pharmaceuticals, researchers 
found that using less than the 
standard amount of sunscreen 
will increase the chances of 
getting burned.
Its also important to remember that people can get 
burned during any season. 
Plenty of UV rays reach the 
ground any season of the year 
 not just summer. So whenever youre planning on doing 
any activities out in the sun, 
remember to apply your inorganic and organic particles 
liberally. Youll save your skin, 
and possibly your life.
HOW THINGS WORKHow does sunblock block sun?
Photo illustration courtesy of Joe Schlabotnik via ?ickr
BENJAMIN MADUEME
Staffwriter
Carl Doersch, a doctoral 
student studying machine 
learning, and his colleagues 
have developed new graphical software capable of identifying stylistic features of 
cities. The team, composed of 
researchers from both Carnegie Mellon and the Institut 
National de Recherche en 
Informatique et en Automatique, has published its work 
in the computer graphics 
journal ACM Transactions on 
Graphics.
The process of ?nding related patterns between images is known as visual data 
mining. Project collaborator Alexei Efros, an associate professor of robotics and 
computer science at Carnegie 
Mellon, pointed out that the 
science is still relatively new.
The ?eld of visual data 
mining is still in its infancy, 
but I believe it holds a lot of 
promise, he said in a university press release. Our data 
mining technique was able to 
go through millions of [images] automatically  something that no human would 
be patient enough to do.
The researchers full data 
set actually contained a quarter of a billion images. They 
were collected from Google 
Street View.
The groups program 
works by parsing through 
a given set of captured city 
imagery, identifying the elements of that citys architecture or scenery that may 
help distinguish it from other 
cities. Speci?cally, the algorithm looks for representative 
features of a city  features 
that are both frequent, like 
trees, and speci?c, like Paris 
Eiffel Tower.
For example, the algorithm labeled window balustrades, traditional street 
signs, distinct lampposts, 
balcony supports, and doors 
as some of the representative features of Paris. London, 
on the other hand, sports a 
combination of neoclassical 
columns, Victorian windows, 
and cast-iron fencing, all 
coming together to give each 
city a unique look.
But extracting these rare, 
indicative markers was no 
easy task. Doersch compared 
the process to that of ?nding 
needles in a haystack.
It was quite a challenge 
to ?nd an algorithm that 
could reliably sift through all 
the uninteresting [images] 
without throwing out the 
needles, he said.
Despite the challenges, the 
researchers had considerable 
success with their algorithms 
accuracy. European cities like 
Paris, London, Prague, Milan, 
and Barcelona  which have 
had distinctive architectural 
styles for centuries  proved 
especially responsive to the 
algorithm. However, there 
has been some dif?culty getting it to work with cities in 
the U.S.
When we tried our algorithm on American cities, 
we found considerably less 
[features] than in European 
cities, Doersch said. Maybe 
this isnt so surprising though, 
since the U.S. is in many ways 
a melting pot of cultures. Usually each city has so many different architectural in?uences that no single architectural 
style can dominate.
The researchers presented 
their ?ndings at SIGGRAPH, 
an annual conference about 
advancements in computer 
graphics, earlier this month. 
I spoke to quite a few people 
afterward who wanted to 
know more and were interested in taking it further, Doersch said.
One practical usage for 
the teams research includes 
the potential for a computerassisted analysis of the spread 
of certain architectural styles 
across a given area. Doersch 
also highlighted another, 
perhaps more interesting, 
application.
Computer animators often have to build models of 
cities, he said. For example, 
for the movie Ratatouille, Pixar built a model of Paris.
Doersch explained that to 
do this, the animators spent 
a few weeks in Paris carefully 
studying and taking pictures 
of the architecture in order 
to decide what to put in the 
faades to make them look 
Parisian.
Our algorithm could help 
automate this process, providing a way to organize the 
collections of reference photos so that the animators can 
get a more complete picture 
of the city faster, Doersch 
said.
Adelaide Cole/Art Editor
Software detects stylistic features
When we tried 
our algorithm 
on American 
cities, we found 
considerably 
less [features] 
than in 
European 
cities.
Carl Doersch 
Doctoral student

---------------------------------------------------

September 10, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/scitech  A5
SCITECH BRIEFS
Snails carry foreign eggs on their backs
Scientists recently found 
that a species of snails called 
solenosteira macrospira carry 
eggs that dont belong to 
them on their backs. In most 
snail species, the female deposits the eggs into sand or 
attaches them to a rock after 
fertilization. However, female 
solenosteira macrospira attach 
their eggs onto their partners 
backs. Snails have several 
partners during their mating 
period, so these eggs often 
dont belong to the snail they 
end up attached to. 
Suzanne Alonzo, an ecology professor at Yale University, explained why a male 
snail would agree to this: So 
as long as he mates with [a female] and sires a bunch of offspring, it doesnt really matter 
if theyre on his back or someone elses back. 
Source: NPR
Junk DNA plays crucial role in body
Researchers at the University of California, Santa 
Cruz recently found out 
that parts of DNA previously 
considered to be useless are 
actually essential in making 
the body function properly. 
About 80 percent of what scientists previously considered 
junk DNA acts as a switch 
for other parts of the DNA. 
Scientists previously thought 
only 5 to 10 percent of DNA 
was useful.
This junk controls which 
parts of the DNA will be active and scientists have linked 
these gene switches to everything from rheumatoid arthritis to height. This discovery 
could provide certain cancer 
treatments by controlling the 
switches that might lead to 
cancer instead of attempting 
to control the disease itself.
Source: The New York Times
Scientists teleport quantum states
A team of scientists in 
Vienna transmitted tiny 
pieces of information known 
as quantum states over 143 kilometers using quantum teleportation. Scientists encoded 
this information into photons, 
and then transferred these 
photons between the Canary 
Islands of La Palma and 
Tenerife. The distance of 143 
kilometers was used as the 
milestone since it is the minimum distance between the 
Earth and orbiting satellites. 
Scientists argue the technology is useful for applications in secure communication and that one of its 
advantages over other communications technology is 
that it can theoretically work 
over any distance without 
taking additional time as distance increases.
Source: Science Daily
Deep-sea crabs color-code food
Crabs that live a half-mile 
deep in the ocean may be using a novel way to protect 
themselves from toxic food. 
While these crabs dont see 
sunlight, they are sensitive 
to blue and ultraviolet (UV) 
light. Duke University biologist Snke Johnsen explained 
that the crabs use their sensitivity to sort out the likely 
toxic corals theyre sitting on, 
which glow, or bioluminesce, 
blue-green and green, from 
the plankton they eat, which 
glow blue.
Certain crab species were 
found to have separate channels for processing blue and 
UV light, giving them a form 
of color vision they could use 
to pick out food. Next, the researchers have to test these 
crabs in conditions closer to 
their natural habitat.
Source: Science Daily
Voyager 1 will soon leave solar system
For a machine with only 68 
kilobytes of memory and an 
eight-track tape recorder, the 
Voyager 1 has accomplished a 
lot in its 35 years of exploration. For the last few months, 
Voyager 1 has been exploring 
a turbulent and hot plasma 
bubble at the edge of the solar system. Once the satellite 
leaves the outer edge, it is expected to encounter a much 
calmer climate. 
Scientists have recently 
seen new data coming in 
from the spacecraft, which 
originally departed Earth in 
1977, that shows the spacecraft is at the edge of crossing 
over. Given that the Voyager 
1 has enough fuel to last until 
2020, there should be plenty 
of time for scientists to get information about stars theyve 
never had access to before.
Source: Bay News 9
Exploding stars may affect climate
The temperature on Earth 
could be affected in part by 
forces beyond human control, like how often stars explode. When a star explodes, 
a massive amount of cosmic 
rays enter the atmosphere affecting the weather in space 
by making it cloudier. More 
clouds in space leads to the 
Earths atmosphere, being 
cooler, astrophysicist Charles 
Wang of Scotlands University 
of Aberdeen said. Hence, the 
more stars that explode in a 
year, the cooler the Earths 
temperature will be, according to Wang. On average, one 
stars explodes in every galaxy 
every year, releasing a huge 
amount of energy and cosmic 
rays.
Source: phys.org
Compiled by
NIHARIKA SINGH

---------------------------------------------------

Office: University Center 314
Phone: (412) 268-2111
Fax: (412) 268-1596
Web: www.thetartan.org
E-mail: contact@thetartan.org
Mail:
The Tartan
Box 119, UC Suite 103 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Editorial Staff
 2012 The Tartan, all rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN: 0890-3107
The Tartan is a student newspaper at Carnegie Mellon University, funded in part by the student 
activities fee. It is a weekly publication by students during the fall and spring semesters, printed 
by Trib Total Media. The Tartan is not an official publication of Carnegie Mellon University. The 
first issue is free; subsequent issues cost $0.50 at the discretion of The Tartan. Subscriptions are 
available on a per semester basis.
The Editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The 
Tartan Editorial Board. Columns, Editorial Cartoons, and Reviews are the opinions of their 
individual creators. The Tartan Editorial Staff reserves the right to withhold from publication 
any copy it deems unfit.
Letters to the Editor are the opinions of their authors. Letters from within the University community take precedence. Letters intended for publication must be signed and include the authors 
address and telephone number for verification; letters must not exceed 350 words. Authors names 
may be withheld from publication upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject 
any letter. Letters must be submitted by 5 p.m. on the Wednesday before publication by mail or to 
forum@thetartan.org.
* Denotes executive committee member
StaffEditorial Board
FROM THE EDITORIAL BOARD
A6  thetartan.org/forum The Tartan  September 10, 2012
Students will no longer have to 
battle over the coveted free-parking 
spots on Margaret Morrison Street; 
at the start of the semester, meters 
were erected on the street, ready 
to eat up students quarters. At any 
other university, this might not be a 
big deal. But here, where parking is 
not only scarce but also expensive, 
taking away a conveniently located 
street of free parking is another 
strain on students.
With this street gone, students 
who live on campus and want to 
have a car are left with limited options. Theres parking on campus, 
which is convenient but also incredibly expensive. The East Campus Garage, for example, will cost $114.50 
per month  or $1,145 for the 10 
months classes are in session. And 
the garage isnt even the most expensive parking lot on campus.
We continue to make every effort to keep parking rates reasonable, especially during these economic times, Michelle Porter, the 
director of Parking & Transportation 
Services, said in an announcement 
last year. And yet, the rates for the 
201213 academic year increased 
about 3 percent, and they will in all 
likelihood continue to increase year 
after year.
Space is also a major issue, since 
parking areas are limited on campus. 
Demand for parking is expected to 
be very high, and we anticipate that 
our lots will be at capacity during the 
20122013 parking year; therefore, 
we suggest that you select multiple 
preferences, Porter further said in 
the announcement. This year, for 
Doherty Apartments parking, there 
was so much demand that there was 
a waitlist for spots.
Moreover, students can only apply for a permit spot during a certain 
period, between April 23 and May 4. 
As a result, they have to know far in 
advance if they will be bringing a car 
to campus, further complicating the 
process for students.
Compare this to an annual City 
of Pittsburgh parking permit, which 
costs about $20. With a city permit, 
residents are allowed to park on multiple streets in the area surrounding 
their address rather than having to 
choose a parking spot on availability.
However, students living on campus cant apply for a City of Pittsburgh permit since they have a campus address. 
This leaves them to decide between forgoing a car and depending 
on the PAT bus system or dealing 
with the stress and costs of having a 
car on campus.
The addition of meters to Margaret Morrison Street may seem like a 
minor inconvenience to some, but to 
many students who already face expensive and limited parking options, 
it is a severe blow.
People dont read license agreements  otherwise known as those 
Terms and Conditions boxes  
when they buy things online. Why? 
Because they are extremely long and 
mundane, and the consumer usually 
makes assumptions about the license 
that are generally correct. When it 
comes to purchasing digital music, 
most consumers assume that whatever they buy, whether they receive 
it in a tangible form or keep it as a 
digital resource, is theirs to own. 
Therefore, the vast majority of online shoppers ?nd it unnecessary to 
scale the dense walls of text in online 
license agreements.
However, digital ownership is 
not always the result of an online 
purchase, especially when it comes 
to music. This was showcased last 
week, when rumors spread that actor Bruce Willis planned to sue Apple 
after ?nding out he was unable to legally pass down his iTunes collection 
to his daughters  because, technically, he does not own his iTunes collection. Songs bought from iTunes 
are personally licensed to the buyer, 
but they are not owned.
To clear up some of this confusion 
 and avoid expensive legal battles 
 online agencies should make very 
clear what one can or cannot do with 
an online product by reforming how 
license agreements are conveyed to 
users.
Digital licensing is an extremely 
unclear matter, especially for consumers; it takes real effort for someone to ?nd out what they can or 
cannot do with something bought 
online. 
Although its true that the buyer 
could perform extensive research 
into the restrictions on his or her 
purchase, it would be much more effective for online agencies to make 
those Terms and Conditions boxes 
a little easier on the eyes through 
better visual design and layout of the 
license agreements.
As they exist right now, online 
license agreements are irritating 
obstructions that consumers skip 
over in a matter of seconds. In order to make sure buyers know what 
they can or cannot do with their 
purchases, companies need to ensure that their license agreements 
are readable, clear, and concise. 
They need to be designed, not only 
by lawyers invested in protecting 
the company, but by writers who can 
communicate such ideas clearly to 
the general public.
License agreements for digital media need revision
Additional parking meters on campus strain students
NYC program shouldnt restrict mothers from formula
New York Mayor Michael Bloombergs Latch On NYC movement 
has put baby formula behind lock 
and key. About two-thirds of New 
Yorks hospitals are participating 
in the movement, which restricts 
new mothers access to formula. Although it wont be denied to women 
with newborns, they will now have 
to speci?cally ask for formula and go 
through a lecture on the health bene?ts of breast milk each time they 
need it.
Its true that breast milk is better for newborns than baby formula. WomensHealth.gov, a site 
by the U.S. Department of Health 
and Human Services, cites how babies raised on breast milk are less 
susceptible to asthma, obesity, and 
Type 2 diabetes than those raised on 
formula. But these new restrictions 
Bloomberg has put on new mothers 
access to formula dont take reality 
into account.
The reality of the situation is that 
not all women have the time or energy to breastfeed or the money to 
buy expensive equipment for breastfeeding. Breast pumps can cost up to 
$400, equipment that isnt always 
covered by health insurance. 
Whats more, a campaign of this 
type has the potential to create a 
social stigma around baby formula. 
Messages that support breastfeeding as the only way to nourish your 
newborn can easily be translated 
into If youre a good mother, youll 
breastfeed, or only mothers who 
cant properly care for their child use 
formula. These messages are reinforced by the fact that a mother has 
to sign for a bottle of formula, like 
shes buying a controlled and prescribed drug.
Instead of restricting formula, 
Bloomberg should make it easier for 
women to breastfeed; working on 
changing the publics perception of 
the practice. Why not make restaurants and workplaces more breastfeeding friendly? Or subsidize breast 
pumps and other lactation devices? 
Measures to encourage breastfeeding are more ethical and considerate 
of new mothers than limiting their 
options.
Restrictions like those instituted 
by Latch On NYC fail to take the 
pressures of reality and circumstance 
into consideration. There are better ways to encourage breastfeeding 
than making the process of getting 
formula that much harder for new 
mothers.
Josh Smith/Forum Editor
KYLE HENSON
Fridays job numbers from the 
Bureau of Labor Statistics are just 
another one of the many painful reminders of the recent economic collapse and ensuing recession.
In the month of August, three 
times as many workers left the job 
market as found jobs. There was no 
wage growth and the vast majority 
of jobs gained were low-paying, and 
most were jobs serving alcoholic 
drinks, indicating a trend towards 
escapism. This is the fourth month 
in a row of dismal jobs numbers that 
on the surface seem hopeful (the 
unemployment rate fell from 8.3 
percent to 8.1 percent), but are discouraging when you look into them.
This begs the question: Why is 
the economy still so bad?
Our president is very fond of 
saying that Republican presidential 
candidate Mitt Romney and the Republicans want to take us back to 
the policies that got us in the mess 
in the ?rst place. What typically follows is empty rhetoric about letting 
Wall Street write its own rules and 
cutting taxes for the 1 percent. That 
all sounds great, but thats actually 
not what got us here.
Everyone has heard the narrative before. A bunch of people 
bought houses and got mortgages. 
The banks then gambled with these 
mortgages, packaged them up, and 
invested on them in a very risky 
way. When some people defaulted 
on these mortgages, the whole thing 
went south, some banks failed, more 
people defaulted on their mortgages 
due to the economy, companies laid 
employees off, the ailing auto industry was hit by a lack of demand, and 
the whole economy cascaded into 
stagnation.
The second half of the previous 
paragraph is pretty much true. Once 
the initial shocks hit, everything 
imploded and a lot of weak sectors 
and companies were shaken up. But 
I dont buy the supposed root cause: 
greedy Wall Street investment bankers took risky investments on the 
backs of hardworking Americans.
Im not really a fan of Wall Street 
so Im not about to defend it, but the 
housing market has been the surest 
bet in the American economy since 
the 50s. Home values have always 
consistently increased, according to 
U.S. Census data, and people typically try to pay their mortgages because they need a place to live. Realistically, these investments werent 
as risky as theyre made out to be.
The real cause of the recession 
lies in people living beyond their 
means.
Government programs such as 
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac made 
it easy for low-income people to get 
low interest loans, whether they 
were quali?ed for them or not. 
They were all about helping people 
become homeowners. Theres no 
deeper-rooted American value than 
property ownership, and these programs re?ected the great intention 
to give everyone a shot at owning a 
home. 
They did this by creating a secondary mortgage market for mortgage-backed securities which would 
then increase the attractiveness of 
mortgages for banks to incentivize 
lending to low-income or even noincome people.
Realistically, however, some 
people just werent good candidates 
to take on the debt and responsibility that comes with owning a home 
and ?nancing a mortgage. They shot 
too far when they werent ready 
and came up short. They defaulted 
on their mortgages en masse and 
started the vicious cycle that got us 
where we are today.
Romney and the Republicans 
want to rectify the problem of living 
beyond our means. Entitlement reform is crucial to this goal. If we stay 
on this course of borrowing 40 cents 
of every dollar we spend, according 
to North Dakota Democratic Senator 
Kent Conrad, we will eventually default on our debt.
We need to practice budget austerity, otherwise the entire U.S. 
economy will follow the trajectory 
of the housing market with consequences to scale. 
Kyle Henson (kahenson@) is a staffwriter for The Tartan.
America cant afford to live beyond its means
Josh Smith/Forum Editor
Some people just 
werent good 
candidates to take 
on the debt and 
responsibility 
that comes with 
owning a home 
and ?nancing a 
mortgage.
SENIOR STAFF 
Stephanie Blotner, Stephanie Guerdan, Alan 
Vangpat
COPY
Connie Chan, Hannah Dellabella, Braden 
Kelner, Lana Li, Sage Po, Taylor Rawley, 
Stephanie Stern
ADVERTISING
Grace Chung, Seo Young Hwang
JENNIFER COLOMA *
Operations Manager
MADELYN GLYMOUR
News Editor
DANIEL TKACIK
SciTech Editor
ALEX TAPAK
Sports Co-Editor
ADAM GRUBER
Sports Co-Editor
ALLISON COSBY
Pillbox Editor 
NICOLE HAMILTON
Comics Editor
JONATHAN CARREON
Photo Editor
ADELAIDE COLE
Art Editor
ALEX CRICHTON
Systems Manager
KATHY CHEN
Advertising Manager
KENNETH WONG
Business Manager
GREG HANNEMAN
Contributing Editor
KELLY HARRINGTON
Asst. Systems Manager
BONITA LEUNG
Asst. Copy Manager
BRENT HEARD
Asst. News Editor
RACHEL COHEN
Asst. Pillbox Editor
MICHAEL SETZER
Asst. SciTech Editor
CHRISTA HESTER *
Publisher
EMILY DOBLER *
Editor-in-Chief
JOSH SMITH 
Forum Editor 
EVAN KAHN
Copy Manager
JACKSON LANE
Senior Staffwriter
ANNA WALSH *
Personnel Manager

---------------------------------------------------

A PERSONS OPINION
Compiled by Jennifer Coloma
The Technical Opportunities Conference and the Business Opportunities Conference are this week. So we asked,
What is the most unconventional thing on your rsum?
September 10, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/forum  A7
Benson Ji
MechE
Second-year Grad
Internship.
Sarah Kwan
ECE
First-year 
Teaching kids to play violin.
Dejian Fang
IST Management
First-year Grad
I did Habitat for Humanity in 
Poland.
Mark Perez
CS
Senior
Tutor.
Nikita Sharma
Architecture
First-year
Doing sudoku.
LETTER TO THE EDITORDorm laundry situation raises student concerns
As a member of the Intersection 
collection of dormitories on campus, I am writing to air grievances 
regarding recent changes made to 
the housing situation there by Housing and Dining. In previous years, 
the Intersection was served by a collection of laundry machines located 
in Margaret Morrison Plaza. Upon 
arrival to Carnegie Mellon this semester, students of the Intersection 
discovered their laundry room had 
been abruptly closed and they had 
been permanently redirected to a 
laundry room in the basement of 
Hamerschlag.
Concerns about this change have 
not been answered by Housing and 
Dining with more than perfunctory 
brush-offs, so I am seeking a wider 
audience. Our complaints fall into 
two major categories. The ?rst is 
purely logistical; the new laundry 
location is farther, with fewer washers that are in worse condition, 
meaning that the Intersections access to laundry has been more than 
halved. Rubbing salt into the wound 
is the fact that multiple machines in 
the Hamerschlag laundry room simply do not function at all. This situation is highly frustrating, especially 
since it is a permanent change that 
residents of the Intersection have no 
recourse from.
In addition, students were not 
informed of this decision until after the school year began, despite 
it being planned as far back as 
before housing selection for the 
201213 school year. Students in 
the Intersection were given no opportunity to respond to this change, 
and signed their housing agreement with one understanding only 
to ?nd their housing situation was 
substantially different when they 
arrived. It is inappropriate and unreasonable for such a decision to be 
foisted on students so abruptly and 
underhandedly.
The students of the Intersection 
do not accept this situation. We are 
upset that our access to laundry machines has been abruptly reduced 
and disconcerted that we were entirely cut out of the decision-making 
process, and above all, we want 
Housing and Dining to acknowledge 
we have a legitimate grievance and 
to take steps to address it.
Thomas Wright 
SCS, Class of 2013
We hope youve been having a 
good ?rst few weeks back on campus! 
We wanted to use this letter to 
update you on the progress of some 
of our initiatives thus far into the semester and give you a road map of 
what Student Government Exec has 
planned for the upcoming year.
We have been working hard to 
start off the year with a strong PR 
presence for student government 
 PR has been and continues to be 
one of our primary objectives for the 
year, and we began working during 
Orientation week by registering voters at meal times. 
We were able to both register a 
signi?cant amount of ?rst-years and 
connect with our new constituents. 
Over the summer we brought together the Board of Directors to create 
the programming for the Welcome 
Back Weekend and offer a chance 
for the entire campus to come together at the start of the year. We are 
now focused on hitting the ground 
running on many of our initiatives 
outlined in our platform.
We plan on expanding our voter 
registration efforts throughout the 
semester, and as we near Election 
Day, we will be providing resources 
for absentee voting, pro?les on local candidates, and ideally hosting 
debate and election result watch 
parties. 
We generated a lot of buzz in our 
campaign about our ?rst town hall 
meeting  we are still hammering 
down a date, but it will be the week 
of Sept. 17, and we will be giving out 
Chipotle to attendees. This town hall 
will be used to collect feedback on a 
number of issues, including possible 
changes to the student activities fee.
We are in the process of scheduling meetings with various administrators of campus services to see 
what they are looking for from student government, as well as advocating on various issues such as Shuttle 
and Escort based on feedback from 
the last issue of The Tartan.
To make it easier to track our progress, we are very close to launching 
our of?cial blog on cmu.edu/stugov, 
where we will push weekly updates 
on our various initiatives. 
We also want to acknowledge 
that there are some initiatives that 
we are not as far along with as we 
would have hoped. For instance, we 
were unable to get the group event 
attendance competition up and running for the start of the semester, but 
we will continue to work on this and 
hope to get the logistics worked out 
soon.
Our main goal is to maintain 
open communication with the Carnegie Mellon community so you can 
know how we are working to help 
you. We are open to criticism and 
collaboration throughout the semester, and you can always email us 
at sbp@andrew.cmu.edu. Additionally, you can attend our of?ce hours, 
which are posted at cmu.edu/stugov. 
If you see us around, stop and say 
hi and let us know how we can best 
serve you.
Will Weiner and Meela Dudley
Student Body President and Vice President
LEADERSHIP PERSPECTIVESStudent Executives outline goals
ELANA GOLDBERG
Junior Staffwriter
Kids in mascara, pregnant teenagers, obesity, extra thumbs, and way 
too much roadkill  it has ?nally 
happened. A monstrous chunk of 
Americas ridiculous societal upsets 
have made it to the limelight in TLCs 
reality comedy show Here Comes 
Honey Boo Boo.
This spin-off from reality show 
Toddlers and Tiaras stars the hillbilly 
pageant queen Alana Thompson, 
her mom June the coupon queen, 
Glitzy the pet pig, and the rest of 
their uncensored, unconventional 
family. 
The show follows Alanas beautypageant struggles and various subplots involving her sisters  nicknamed Chickadee, Chubbs, and 
Pumpkin  and her father Mike, 
a.k.a. Sugar Bear.
The show is wildly compelling; 
its crude, honest, and most importantly, hysterical. Its like every other 
tabloid-endorsed reality show, except its missing the trust funds, the 
Jersey nightclubs, and the seven 
strangers picked to live in one house. 
The similarities, however, lie in the 
array of overstrung off-screen scandals that, in recent weeks, have circled Honey Boo Boo and her clan.
The most infamous controversy surrounds photos that feature 
Pumpkin, Alanas twelve-year-old 
sister, feeding Kaitlyn, Chickadees 
newborn daughter, Mountain Dewdipped paci?ers. 
Soda is unhealthy at any age, 
and it is widely agreed that giving it 
to a one-month-old is going too far. 
Feeding infants soda may result in 
obesity, diabetes, cavities, and other 
nutritional de?ciencies. This was 
probably not Pumpkins best move, 
but in her defense, maybe it was the 
best they could do. Its not healthy, 
but its their normal. Coming from a 
family that feasts on roadkill, I dont 
?nd it so weird.
This, however, has itched the feet 
of mothers and nutritionists alike. 
But I havent even gotten to the best 
 and juiciest  part of this story.
Kaitlyn has an extra thumb. And 
the most scandalous part of Kaitlyns extra limb? Mama June has 
been accused of making fun of it. 
Imagine the claimed awfulness of 
this: A thirty-two year old grandmother having the nerve to tease her 
infant granddaughter for her birth 
defect. 
Critics argue that while it was 
unfortunate enough for Kaitlyn to 
suffer from this defect, she should 
at least have support from her family. In an interview with People, June 
retracted her negative approach, 
claiming, We have embraced [the 
abnormality]. It makes Kaitlyn more 
special to us.
The show may be backward, but 
the criticism is even more so. Even 
though it is entertainment, the show 
is still real. These people are real. 
They live this lifestyle that people 
condemn, criticize and try to ?x, but 
its still their lives. These controversies are bizarre, but that does not 
make them scandals.
The Mountain Dew and extra 
thumb issues arent even the half of 
it. 
Critics are in uproar over the fact 
that each of Junes children have different fathers. They are furious that 
ratings exceeded those of the Republican National Convention for some 
demographics. They swarmed over a 
wardrobe malfunction. 
The criticism is coming from every direction, and at the root of it is 
the lack of approval over the familys 
lifestyle.
Its just their way of living, and 
that does not stop me or the other 
three million viewers from reveling 
in it. Honey Boo Boo has come, and 
she is certainly not wavering out of 
the spotlight. The real question is 
this: Will their lifestyle stop you from 
watching?
Critics of Honey Boo Boo too harsh
LUKE MASA
Junior Staffwriter
At the end of these past two 
weeks, it is quite likely that those of 
us following the conventions closely 
 even in sound bites  might feel 
somewhat fatigued. From Republican presidential candidate Mitt 
Romney to his wife Ann to First Lady 
Michelle Obama, and everybody in 
between, its been speeches back to 
back.
Yet last Wednesday at the Democratic National Convention, before 
the commander in chief got his say, 
one of his predecessors took the 
stage for what was the best case for 
Barack Obama Ive heard the Democrats deliver.
Former president Bill Clinton 
came out as what appeared to be the 
Democrats unlikely trump card, because despite his rhetorical and political prowess, he is now more well 
known for his admittedly ill-advised 
cigar shenanigans than for what 
he actually accomplished while in 
of?ce. 
However, his speech was everything the Republican National Convention speeches werent in that it 
actually laid out plans, accomplishments, and details.
It spent more time presenting 
what one side got right than what 
the other got wrong; that is why I 
believe it did more for the president 
than practically any other effort in 
the past four years. In spite of his 
somewhat sordid reputation, Clinton laid out a strong foundational 
case for the Democrats by reminding 
us all of a little thing he calls arithmetic  sheer numerical facts.
His bottom line? In the past 51 
years, Democrats created 42 million 
jobs while in of?ce and Republicans 
created just 24 million, less than half 
that amount, a statement that factchecking website PolitiFact.com 
veri?ed as true.
Such numbers, while the crux of 
Clintons argument, werent the only 
things he stressed. He made sure to 
give credit were credit is due, even 
to former president George W. Bush 
for his support of PEPFAR, the governments AIDS relief program, a 
mention conspicuously absent from 
this years RNC. But Clinton also reminded us of all the qualities that 
make Obama the preferable choice.
He stressed Obamas attempts at 
cooperation within and without the 
party, from cabinet appointments, 
such as Secretary of State Hillary 
Clinton, to the new jobs plan that 
was rejected by Congress. Clinton 
also included the actions taken by 
Obama early in his presidency, such 
as the then-unpopular (but now 
seemingly vindicated) stimulus plan 
and automobile bailout. 
Clinton played up what is arguably Obamas biggest accomplishment in healthcare reform, and 
noted the other sides plans to get 
rid of it.
And in his ?nal remarks, Clinton 
struck a chord with the audience, 
summarizing why those concerned 
with changing voter policies, immigration, or the middle class should 
re-elect Obama. Clintons line of the 
night might have been: We cannot 
afford to double-down on trickledown. 
Thus, he was able to convince 
me that whether you go just by the 
numbers or are simply looking for a 
moderate willing to reach across the 
aisle, Obama is who you should vote 
for come November.
Clintons speech does wonders for president
Molly Swartz/Junior Artist
Our main goal is 
to maintain open 
communication 
with the Carnegie 
Mellon community 
so you can know 
how we are 
working to help 
you.

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

September 10, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/sports  A9
SPORTS COMMENTARYMLB Wild Card a tight race
ADAM GRUBER
Sports Co-Editor
I am insurmountably 
thankful for Major League 
Baseballs new Wild Card 
one-game playoff; this National League Wild Card race 
would not be a story without 
it. The Atlanta Braves are sitting pretty  three-and-ahalf games up on the ?eld  
and without any of the other 
teams making a strong push, 
that lead should feel comfortable.
But the sought-after second spot in the Wild Card race 
gives a team the chance to 
play the Braves in a one-game 
playoff  a rule instituted by 
Major League Baseball before 
the start of the season. That 
spot is separated by just oneand-a-half games, with the 
St. Louis Cardinals above the 
Los Angeles Dodgers and the 
Pittsburgh Pirates.
A long-awaited playoff 
berth for the city of Pittsburgh 
might signal the apocalypse: 
The last time the Pirates made 
the playoffs, or even ?nished 
a regular season with a record above .500, was in 1992. 
This season, behind the bat of 
MVP candidate and out?elder 
Andrew McCutchen and with 
some surprisingly solid pitching led by ace A.J. Burnett, 
the Pirates have put themselves in a spot to break their 
horrid streak.
But outside of McCutchen, 
the offense has been shallow 
all season. Third baseman Pedro Alvarez exhibited strokes 
of power with 27 home runs, 
but does not consistently get 
on base. His success this 
season has been a treat to 
fans, but under the gaze of 
unbiased eyes, his numbers 
are still average at best. 
Out?elder Garrett Jones, 
newly acquired ?rst baseman 
Gaby Sanchez, and second 
baseman Neil Walker have 
been solid at the plate this 
season, posting .280-plus batting averages. But a look at 
how this team has performed 
offensively shows a belowaverage offense: 23rd in runs 
scored and 21st in batting average.
It has been the Pirates 
pitching that has carried 
them into the playoff race this 
season. The team is ninth in 
the majors in earned run average (ERA), 11th in wins plus 
hits times innings pitched 
(WHIP), and seventh in batting average allowed (BAA). 
Ive already mentioned Burnett, but the Pirates have also 
seen great play from starting pitcher James MacDonald and closing pitcher Joel 
Hanrahan. If the Pirates have 
a lead in the ninth, Hanrahan 
has been a model of consistency closing out games and 
securing victories.
The Dodgers, however, 
are an enigma as far as Im 
concerned. The Dodgers 
new ownership, headed by 
Earvin Magic Johnson, 
has made drastic strides to 
stack the offense, adding 
the likes of in?elder Hanley 
Ramirez, out?elder Shane 
Victorino, and ?rst baseman 
Adrian Gonzalez to a lineup 
already headed by all-star  
out?elders Matt Kemp and 
Andre Ethier. These moves 
have shown the depth of the 
owners pockets and their 
willingness to spend to make 
the team better.
Despite the talent the 
Dodgers brought in to beef up 
their offense, the bats have 
been average. The Dodgers 
are posting the 18th-best batting average and 18th-best 
slugging percentage, and 
have scored the 24th-most 
runs in the Major Leagues. 
Like the Pirates, the Dodgers 
pitching has been surprisingly 
good.
On paper, the Dodgers 
pitching staff is not anything 
to fear. Other than 2011 Cy 
Young Award winner Clayton 
Kershaw, the starting pitching staff does not seem deep. 
Behind Kershaw, the Dodgers 
boast Chris Capuano, Aaron 
Harang, Joe Blanton, and 
Josh Beckett. There was a 
time when Beckett, Capuano, 
and Harang were elite pitchers in the league, but Capuano and Harang are past their 
prime and Beckett has been a 
head case.
Dodgers starting pitchers 
Chad Billingsley and Ted Lilly 
also went down with seasonending injuries.
Despite this, the Dodgers pitching is ?fth in ERA, 
second in quality starts, and 
third in BAA. When healthy, 
closer Kenley Jensen has exhibited how dominant his 
pitches are, boasting a 2.54 
ERA and converting on 25 of 
31 save opportunities.
But as I see it, the Cardinals 
will ?nish in that second spot 
to play the Braves in the onegame wild card playoff. The 
reigning World Series champions have a deeper pitching 
staff and offense than anyone 
else in the race.
Their offense is among the 
best in baseball, led by out?elders Matt Holiday and Carlos Beltran and catcher Yadier 
Molina. These guys have led 
the Cardinals to second in 
runs scored, third in batting 
average, and second in onbase percentage.
The Cards pitching staff 
has been solid as well, headed 
by Kyle Lohse and Adam 
Wainwright, posting the 10thbest ERA and the sixth-most 
quality starts in the MLB. 
This race is a tight one and 
should be exciting to the very 
end of the regular season, 
but I dont see the Cardinals, 
with their World Series experience, giving up the lead in 
this race.
Dive into journalismsports@thetartan.org

---------------------------------------------------

CARL GLAZER
Staffwriter
The Carnegie Mellon Tartans defeated the Allegheny 
College Gators 377 last Saturday. With the win, the Tartans start the season 20.
Carnegie Mellon quickly 
took the lead after a 55-yard, 
eight-play drive that ended 
with a 27-yard ?eld goal 
from ?rst-year kicker Connor 
Young. After being down 30, 
the Gators responded with a 
77-yard drive that ended with 
a one-yard touchdown run. 
After that score, Carnegie 
Mellon took control of the 
ball game and reeled off 34 
unanswered points.
The scoring frenzy began with a nine-yard sprint 
into the end zone by senior 
running back Patrick Blanks 
with 12:18 remaining in the 
second quarter.
Junior wide receiver Tim 
Kikta followed him into the 
end zone with a 39-yard 
touchdown catch from junior 
quarterback Rob Kalkstein 
to make it 177 going into 
halftime.
Kikta and Kalkstein did not 
waste any time increasing the 
lead on the ?rst play of the 
Tartans second possession of 
the second half with an 82-
yard touchdown. The score 
was 237 after Young missed 
the point-after attempt, kicking it wide right. 
Blanks followed suit with 
his second and third trips to 
the end zone to put the game 
out of reach at 377. He ended 
the game with 52 yards on 14 
carries and three touchdowns.
Overall, the Tartans had 
461 yards of total offense with 
261 coming through the running game. Kalkstein ended 
the game with two touchdowns and a career-high 200 
passing yards.
Defensively, Carnegie Mellon excelled, holding the Gators to only 207 yards of total 
offense on the day.
Junior safety Jack Butler 
and junior linebacker Akwasi 
Brefo led the way, each with 
eight tackles.
We lost to that team three 
years in a row. The win yesterday really shows the character of this team. Its great 
to see the team progressing 
week to week. Hopefully we 
carry this momentum into 
our next game.... Blanks 
said.
Carnegie Mellon plays 
next Friday at Gesling Stadium, hosting the Catholic 
University Cardinals. Kickoff 
is set for 7 p.m.
September 10, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/sports  A10
CMU football defeats GatorsMens Soccer starts up 31
File photo by Alan Vangpat/Senior Photographer
No. 16 Jake Nardone runs the ball toward the end zone in the ?nal game of the 2011 season against Case 
Western. The Tartans lost the game 3824.
CARL GLAZER
Staffwriter
Pennsylvania college football was shaken up during the 
past year as both the University of Pittsburgh and Pennsylvania State University went 
through major changes.
Pitt announced that it was 
leaving the Big East Conference to go with Syracuse University to the Atlantic Coast 
Conference (ACC) starting 
next season, following in the 
footsteps of former Big Eastturned-ACC schools Virginia 
Tech University, Miami University, and Boston College.
Pitt also has a new head 
coach, Paul Chryst, as Todd 
Graham left after only one season to become the head coach 
at Arizona State University. 
Penn State has been dealing with the fallout from the 
Jerry Sandusky scandal, with 
longtime coach and face of 
the team Joe Paterno being 
dismissed and soon thereafter 
passing away from lung cancer.
New head coach Bill 
OBrien has had to deal with 
harsh sanctions and player 
transfers as he tries to restore 
the Nittany Lions to their former glory. Unfortunately, both 
?rst-time head coaches have 
had poor starts to their tenures, as Pitt and Penn State 
have started the year 02.
Pitt football has been a 
shell of its former glory in recent years, going 75 and 66 
the past two seasons. Even in 
the Big East, Pitt has had a 
hard time living up to expectations, and this year seems to 
be no different. The Panthers 
started off the year by getting 
upset 3117 by the football 
championship school (formerly Division 1-AA), Youngstown 
State University.
Pitts schedule did not get 
any easier as they faced Cincinnati last Thursday in their 
annual Ohio River rivalry 
game. The Panthers wasted no 
time falling behind, giving up 
a 58-yard touchdown run on 
the ?rst play of the game.
After their rough start, 
things only got worse, and 
Cincinnati eventually won 34
10. Pitt continued its struggles 
on both sides of the ball, as 
quarterback Tino Sunseri was 
sacked six times, threw one 
touchdown, and had one fumble while the defense gave up 
464 yards and 19 ?rst downs.
Meanwhile, Penn States 
season is one of change and 
turnover.
Along with a new head 
coach, the Nittany Lions also 
changed their uniforms by 
adding players names to the 
backs of the jerseys and blue 
ribbons to the back of the helmets as a symbol of support for 
victims of child sexual abuse.
However, these cosmetic 
changes did nothing to improve their playing, as the 
Nittany Lions let an 11-point 
halftime advantage slip away 
against Ohio and lost 2414.
The on-?eld struggles did 
not go away as Penn State lost 
to Virginia Tech 1716, following four missed ?eld goals by 
kicker Sam Ficken.
The Nittany Lions defense 
looked in top form for most 
of the game, causing four 
turnovers, but the offense 
struggled and converted those 
chances into only three points.
Unfortunately, even the defense collapsed in crunch time 
as they gave up the winning 
86-yard drive.
The mass exodus of players following the NCAA sanctions on Penn State football 
 including two key transfers, 
running back Silas Redd and 
kicker Anthony Fera  would 
have likely turned this heartbreaking loss into an easy win 
for the Nittany Lions.
Overall, the next few years 
are going to be rough for Pennsylvania college football fans. 
Pitt is trying to rede?ne 
itself with a new conference 
next season and is on its third 
head coach in as many years.
The ACC will offer stiffer 
competition for the Panthers, 
but will hopefully offer a larger national spotlight and allow 
Pitt to increase its recruiting 
base and regain its former 
glory. 
For Penn State, the road is 
not quite so easy. With a fouryear bowl ban imposed as part 
of NCAA sanctions from the 
Sandusky scandal, the Nittany 
Lions will have trouble attracting top recruits with NFL aspirations.
There is hope, however, 
since many current players 
have chosen to stay with the 
team rather than transfer 
without penalty. Also, many 
recruits have kept their commitments.
Penn State fans are going to 
have to weather the rough seasons ahead with hopes that in 
four or ?ve years, the Nittany 
Lions can return to the former 
glory that they had under Paterno.
SPORTS COMMENTARYPitt and Penn State football facing challenges, changes
ATHLETE PROFILEBen Bryant sets the bar high for student-athlete standards
ALEX TAPAK
Sports Co-Editor
Tartan defender of the 
mens soccer team Ben Bryant is not only impressive 
on the ?eld, but also in the 
classroom.
Last year, Bryant played 
in all 16 soccer games and 
started in 13 of them. He 
is a chemistry and Spanish 
double major, with minors in 
biomedical engineering and 
business administration. He 
plans on staying at Carnegie 
Mellon for a ?fth year and 
playing one more season on 
the soccer team because he 
had a medical redshirt when 
he was a ?rst-year. Upon matriculation, Bryant plans on 
attending medical school.
He has been playing soccer since the age of ?ve, for a 
total of 16 years. 
The camaraderie our 
team has on the ?eld is the 
best part of being on the 
soccer team, Bryant said. 
My funniest moment on the 
team came last season when 
Chris Wysocki, a current junior, scored a must-needed 
goal, and after he pulled his 
jersey up to show a t-shirt 
underneath with the question written, Why Always 
Me?  Bryant said.
The new season, with 
some key wins early, looks 
hopeful for Bryant. My 
proudest moment thus far 
was when we beat Hobart 
and Stevens; Stevens was 
ranked seventh in the country this past weekend, kickstarting our season with a 
20 record, he said. 
Ben is a great teammate and leader, junior 
mid?elder Matt Sarett said. 
He sets a good example for 
the younger players with his 
work ethic and attitude. 
With such a strong start, 
the future for the team looks 
bright. For this season, my 
goals for myself and the 
team are to win the UAA 
Conference and get a bid 
to the NCAA tournament 
to then compete for the national championship, Bryant said.
Overall, Bryant has had 
a great experience so far. 
What is most rewarding, 
but also most challenging, 
about being a Carnegie Mellon University athlete is juggling the rigorous academics 
of Carnegie Mellon on top of 
a very busy athletic schedule, he said.
ALEX TAPAK
Sports Co-Editor
The mens soccer team 
started its season strong at 
home with two victories. The 
team saw its ?rst win over Hobart College with a 31 score, 
and its second was over seventh-ranked Stevens Institute 
of Technology at 10.
This past weekend, the 
Tartans played two more 
games. After falling 53 to 
Baldwin Wallace College, the 
team rebounded with a 32 
win over Ohio Northern University. After only ?rst two 
weeks of play, the Tartans 
come away with a 31 total 
record.
Currently, the mens soccer team is ranked No. 13 in 
the nation.
The Tartans victories 
have been led by the upperclassmen. In the ?rst game 
against Hobart, junior Matt 
Sarett scored the ?rst goal for 
the Tartans to tie the game. 
Senior Alex Abedian scored 
second to put the Tartans at 
a 21 lead, before junior Max 
Tassano scored to increase the 
lead to 31 before the game 
ended.
The game against Stevens 
kept the attention of Tartan 
fans, as the game was tied 00 
until the last 40 seconds of the 
game. 
The Tartans and their opponents went back and forth 
the entire game. Both teams 
had opportunities to score, 
but saves from junior goal 
keeper Chris Madden kept the 
Tartans in the game. The Stevens goal keeper held his own 
as well until the last seconds 
when senior John Crawshaw 
scored the only goal of the 
game.
Despite losing against 
Baldwin Wallace, the Tartans still played a respectable 
game, scoring three goals. 
The ?rst came from junior 
Mike Ferraco and the other 
two came from sophomores 
Louis Ferragonio and Daniel 
Kursman-Neri. It was Ferragonios ?rst goal as a Tartan.
Against Ohio Northern, 
Abedian was back in action, 
scoring his second goal of the 
season. Senior Ben Bryant 
scored the second goal of the 
game for the Tartans before 
Tassano followed Abedians 
footsteps and scored his second goal of the season, sealing the victory.
The Tartans will travel to 
Geneva College on Wednesday for a 7 p.m. game. 
The team will then host Allegheny College on Saturday 
for a 1 p.m. game on the Tartans home turf, where they 
remain undefeated.
File Photo by Tommy Hoffman
Junior Scott Gerfen (No. 7) competes with a player of the opposing team for possession of the ball.
Jonathan Carreon/Photo Editor
No. 3 senior Ben Bryant scored his ?rst goal of the season this past weekend.

---------------------------------------------------

Dress to impress: How to make a good ?rst impression
SHWETA SURESH
Tartan Alumna
When it comes to making 
a good ?rst impression, appearance de?nitely matters. 
Carnegie Mellon students 
have a reputation of not caring 
too much about (supposedly) 
trivial things like attire. But at 
job fairs, recruiters are judging students not only by their 
rsums, but also the color of 
their suits.
With this in mind, it is imperative that students look 
polished and conservative. 
Finding the right pair of heels 
or the perfect tie is just as important as ?xing the formatting on your rsum.
Women
Since the dress code for the 
conferences is business formal, women should stick to a 
conservative suit or skirt in 
black, navy, or gray. Wearing 
a suit jacket is a must, or you 
will end up looking too casual 
for the event. Also, try to avoid 
wearing lacy or silky camisoles 
under your jacket. A crisp shirt 
in a solid color is a much better 
option  not only is it a safe, 
conservative bet, but it also 
looks smart.
When it comes to styling, 
all attempts should be made 
to create a clean and polished 
look. Hair should be tied back 
neatly in a pony tail or pinned 
back so that it doesnt fall on 
the face. Nude pantyhose are a 
must if you are wearing a skirt, 
and if you are wearing a pant 
suit, wear thin, nude socks.
As for accessories, the 
choice of shoes is an important one. Dont pick the stylish, open-toed heels you 
would wear on a night out. Instead, go with a sensible pair 
of pumps. A quick tip: Make 
sure you are comfortable in 
your heels. Job fairs involve a 
lot of waiting in lines, and you 
dont want to be doing all of it 
with sore feet. Add some simple jewelry to make your look 
more elegant and attractive. 
Stay away from large, chunky 
necklaces and long, dangly 
earrings. Find simple studs 
and a small pendant that suit 
your out?t and youre good to 
go.
Men
A business suit is a necessity for men. While colors like 
black, navy, and gray will all 
work, men can also impress 
in a pinstriped suit. A white 
shirt is the safest bet, and it 
is important to make sure the 
shirt cuffs are close to one-half 
of an inch longer than their 
jacket sleeves.
A special feature of the 
mens look is the tie. Remember, the tie is supposed to 
serve as an accessory, not an 
attention-grabber; leave your 
Jerry Garcia tie at home and 
wear something more suited 
to the occasion. Additionally, 
if this is your ?rst time tying 
a tie, practice a few times before the day of the conference; 
YouTube has some good video 
tutorials. Make sure your tie is 
not too long and hanging below your belt, or too short and 
stopping above it.
An important thing to keep 
in mind is that even though 
you may have put the perfect 
out?t together, all of it will 
amount to nothing if you are 
not con?dent about your appearance. While adhering to 
the dress code and smartening 
up your attire are essential, remaining cool and con?dent is 
even more important.
Photo Illustration by Alan Vangpat/Senior Photographer

---------------------------------------------------

B2  thetartan.org/special The Tartan  September 10, 2012
COURTNEY WITTEKIND
Staffwriter
When the TOC and BOC 
conferences wrap up, many 
students may be left with unmet expectations. Whether 
looking for an internship or 
a full-time job, students still 
have a wide variety of options 
available to them.
Explore TartanTrak
While the conferences offer an excellent opportunity to 
meet with potential employers in person, students have a 
much larger pool of employers 
available to them year-round 
through TartanTrak, which offers over 11,000 company pro?les. These 11,000 businesses 
currently offer around 2,200 
positions for which Carnegie 
Mellon students can apply via 
the universitys online service.
The fairs are wonderful 
opportunities for students to 
network with employers and 
to secure that ?rst interview. 
But it is not the only way, said 
Farouk Dey, the director of 
Carnegie Mellons Career and 
Professional Development 
Center (CPDC) in an interview two years ago.
There are many employers who are out there who 
choose not to come to the 
conference for one reason or 
another but are still very interested in Carnegie Mellon students. The ?rst place I would 
always send students to is 
TartanTrak, Dey said. I want 
to encourage every student, 
whether they get an interview 
or not, to go on TartanTrak 
and look up these employers.
Students can visit 
TartanTrak to submit rsums, 
sign up for interviews, and 
explore job opportunities. 
Students can register for their 
TartanTrak login information 
at www.studentaffairs.
cmu.edu/career/students_
alumni/tartantrak.html.
Expand professional 
networks
According to Dey, the majority of university students 
across the country ?nd their 
jobs through previously established connections.
Networking is really the 
No. 1 way people get jobs, 
Dey said. Occasionally these 
connections can be neighbors 
or family friends, but most of 
the time these are professional connections that students 
have developed through joining clubs, organizations, or 
committees.
Dey said that students 
must ?rst be aware of the contacts they have available to 
them and then leverage these 
connections. Many, however, 
wonder how exactly to begin 
taking advantage of their networks. According to Dey, it is 
often just a matter of getting 
the word out.
The ?rst place to start is 
to let people know that youre 
looking  let your parents 
know, let your friends know, 
let your roommate know. Inform people that you are approaching graduation and 
are beginning to look for a 
full-time position, Dey said. 
Just the fact that youre letting them know and asking 
them to keep you in mind if 
they hear about an opportunity increases your chances of 
being in the right place at the 
right time.
Take advantage of online 
networking
The advantages of online 
networking are often not 
succesfully leveraged by 
students. The internet, 
along with tools such as 
Facebook and LinkedIn, 
give students the option of 
reaching hundreds, if not 
thousands, of their friends 
and acquaintances with one 
click of a mouse.
One of the tools I often 
recommend is LinkedIn. It is 
fantastic because it not only 
allows you to document all 
the people in your professional network who you know, but 
it also allows you to tap into a 
larger network through those 
people, Dey said.
As an example, Dey opened 
his own LinkedIn pro?le to 
show the power of the site. 
This is my LinkedIn page and 
I use it very much. You can 
see I have 331 connections  
these are people that I know 
personally through my career 
or some are also friends or acquaintances. Through these 
331 connections I am then 
connected to 3,316,810 people, Dey said.
Dey explained the power 
of such online networking 
services by giving a hypothetical example. If I am interested in working for Intel, I can 
type Intel into the LinkedIn 
search. The ?rst people that 
show up in my list are the people who are connected to me 
but also have a strong connection to Intel. They may know 
someone else who works 
there, or have worked there 
themselves. The great part 
about this is I now know who 
to contact to begin my search. 
It is a powerful way to look for 
connections.
Be persistent
For those students who 
may leave the conferences 
feeling let down, persistence 
will pay off, according to Dey. 
He believes that it is important to not give up when hunting for a job.
Even the employers who 
you may have met at the 
[BOC/TOC/EOC] who maybe 
did not offer you an interview 
at the conference  it is okay 
to return to them and ask 
them to reconsider or if they 
have any other opportunities, Dey said. 
It really is a matter of engaging your professional associations, networking both 
online and in person, getting 
involved, and I would ?nish 
by telling students to not lose 
hope. Be persistent.
More opportunities if the job fairs dont work out
Fewer employers coming to conference for business students
JACKSON LANE
Senior Staffwriter
Students in the Tepper 
School of Business were disappointed to see that only 30 
companies would be attending 
this years Business Opportunities Conference (BOC). This 
marks the fourth year in a row 
where employer attendance at 
the BOC has decreased from 
that of the previous year.
The BOC is an annual career fair at Carnegie Mellon 
where students network with 
recruiters for business internships and full-time positions. 
The BOC is run by the BOC 
committee, an undergraduate 
student organization. In addition to the BOC, the Carnegie 
Institute of Technology sponsors the Technical Opportunities Conference (TOC), a 
career fair for technical positions, while the Career and 
Professional Development 
Center (CPDC) hosts fall and 
spring Employment Opportunities Conferences (EOC), 
which are general career fairs.
This years BOC sees in particular the loss of energy companies from previous years. 
Companies like DC Energy, Direct Energy, and Tricon Energy 
all attended the BOC last year, 
but they will not return for the 
conference this time around. 
Major investment banks and 
consulting ?rms like JPMorgan Chase, Citigroup, Ernst & 
Young, and Accenture will also 
be absent.
Although these companies 
are still offering positions 
through TartanTrak, students 
at the BOC will miss out on 
networking opportunities. 
Networking with recruiters 
really improves your chances 
of getting a job, so Im disappointed that almost none of 
the companies Im interested 
in are coming to the BOC, 
said Michael Wang, a senior 
business administration major.
The co-chairs of this years 
BOC committee, seniors Brendan Casey and Olubunmi Dairo, could not be reached for 
comment.
The BOCs decline stands 
in contrast to the growth in 
Carnegie Mellons other career fairs and career opportunities. Last academic year 
employer attendance at the 
Spring EOC was up 13 percent 
and we anticipate an increase 
in this Octobers Fall EOC. Job 
postings were up 51 percent 
and the number of on-campus 
interviews was up 72 percent, 
said Wesley Thorne, associate 
director of employer relations 
and college liaison to Tepper 
for the CPDC, in an email.
The number of companies 
attending the TOC also grew 
from 240 in 2011 to 290 in this 
years conference.
Jennifer Frick, assistant director and career consultant 
in the CPDC for Tepper undergraduates, speculates that the 
career fair is still feeling the aftershocks of the 2008 ?nancial 
crisis. The decrease in BOC 
registrations likely re?ects the 
decreased hiring in the ?nancial services industry, Frick 
said in an email. 2007 was 
one of our best years in terms 
of ?nancial services recruiting, but with the problems in 
the ?nancial sector after 2008, 
we have seen less hiring, especially from investment banks.
Brandon Ngiam, a senior 
mathematical sciences major 
and member of the 2009 BOC 
committee, believes that the 
small number of students in 
Tepper does not make attending the BOC a worthwhile investment for businesses.
Companies want to focus 
their recruiting efforts at large 
numbers of students, and because Tepper is smaller than 
other schools, thats why the 
BOC is so much smaller than 
the TOC and EOC, Ngiam 
said. Enrollment at Tepper 
has also been decreasing, so 
that might explain why fewer 
companies are attending each 
year. In 2008, undergraduate 
business enrollment was 428, 
while in 2011, it was only 354.
There might also be a selfperpetuating cycle contributing to the decline of the BOC 
and the growth of the other 
career fairs: Business students 
attend other career fairs due 
to the lack of companies at the 
BOC, while companies stop attending the BOC because they 
can recruit business students 
at other career fairs.
For example, Nikki Mistry, 
a senior business administration major, plans to go to the 
BOC, TOC, and the EOC to 
look for consulting positions. 
Many of the ?rms Im interested [in] are going to be at 
the TOC and EOC, but not the 
BOC, Mistry said. The TOC 
recruiters might not speci?-
cally be hiring for consulting, 
but I at least can pass along my 
rsum to them.
Meanwhile, many consulting ?rms see that students like 
Mistry are attending the EOC 
and reason that attending the 
BOC is redundant. We would 
see many of the same students at the BOC that we see 
at Carnegie Mellons other career fairs, like the EOC, said 
Devin Carter, a recruiter for 
the consulting ?rm ZS Associates. Since there is so much 
overlap, we dont see the need 
to attend the BOC to recruit 
Carnegie Mellon students.
It is unclear what next 
years BOC committee can do 
to reverse this trend. Ngiam 
suggests reducing the entrance fee. Its already a big 
commitment to ?y out to Pittsburgh and attend the BOC, 
and we may not be providing 
companies with enough students and potential hires to 
justify the current entrance 
fee. For-pro?t companies pay 
$500 for the basic package to 
host a booth at the BOC.
Mistry thinks that the BOC 
should involve the Tepper 
administration or the career 
center. A big difference between the BOC and the  other 
career fairs is that the BOC is 
completely student-run, and 
I think that if the Tepper administration helped run the 
committee, we would see a lot 
more companies coming. 
For now, to all the discouraged business students worried about their careers, Frick 
emphasized, Remember that 
the job fairs are just one step 
in the recruiting process for 
many companies. Especially 
for BOC, many of the companies are returning later for oncampus interviews, case competitions, and other events 
such as information sessions 
that further allow them to 
connect with students.
How to perfect your rsum
ZANETA GRANT
Staffwriter
When going to the BOC or 
TOC, it is important to have 
a strong rsum to make you 
stand out from all the other 
candidates  in a good way, 
of course. Here are some 
short, informal guidelines for 
those who have never written 
a rsum before.
Header
In the heading, the name 
comes ?rst, and you want 
that to be the most prominent 
part. Make it noticeable, under 40 point font, and either 
left-align or center-align it. A 
bold name in a formal serif 
(Garamond, Jenson, Trajan) 
will suf?ce. The address at 
which the writer receives 
most of his or her mail, as well 
as a phone number and email 
address, should also be in the 
heading. If you have a personal website, list it there as well.
Education
The education section 
is where you should put intended majors or minors (if 
relevant), expected graduation date, and the name and 
location of your school. Once 
in college, you should try 
to avoid placing your high 
school on your rsum. You 
can include your college GPA 
if it is high  especially if you 
are a Deans List honoree. If 
your GPA is poor, leave it off 
 if recruiters really want to 
know, they will ask.
Experience
Here is the trickiest 
 and most important  
part of your rsum. When 
listing your experiences, you 
should choose the ones that 
connect your skills to the 
quali?cations that the job 
asks for. However, dont copy 
full-length sentences from the 
job advertisement.
What you should do is try 
to articulate your skills in a 
way that sounds similar to the 
skills the employer is looking 
for in a candidate. Eliminate 
use of the ?rst-person (I did 
...) if possible, and dont forget to use active verbs when 
listing the tasks your job entailed. For example, Flipped 
burgers (dont put that on 
your rsum) is the correct 
verb form to use. You should 
also try to use bulleted lists to 
make it easier to scan the information. And stay concise 
 no one wants to read eight 
paragraphs about your retail 
experience.
Activities
In some cases, your activities might even be more relevant than your actual work 
experience, and should thus 
be as boldly and centrally 
placed. You should try your 
best to list your most relevant 
activities. For example, if you 
are applying for a web design 
internship, list related activities: copy-writing, search engine optimization, or visual 
design experience, to give a 
few examples.
As for other extra-curricular activities, you should highlight activities youre involved 
in  a club for which you 
only attended a single meeting doesnt count. As always, 
either cut out irrelevant information or ?nd a way to tie it 
into the way you sell yourself.
Skills
This is where you advertise 
any skills that havent been 
addressed in the other sections. Be sure you are actually advertising real skills, not 
generic qualities that anyone 
can claim. List languages you 
speak and languages you code 
in. List a hobby or two that 
an interviewer might connect 
with and use to better understand you as a person.
Take your rsum seriously, and have someone like an 
adviser look over it because 
their advice will be tremendously valuable. If you dont, 
you could make silly mistakes, 
and your rsum might be 
perceived as a joke. It will provide the employer with a good 
laugh, but that is probably not 
what you are aiming for. Try 
to be professional, or at least 
try not to do something foolish.
Molly Swartz/Junior Artist
File Photo
In contrast to the BOC, the TOC, pictured here, and the EOC both have experienced an increase in numbers of 
companies attending over the past couple of years.
Photo Illustration by Kate Groschner/Staff Photographer

---------------------------------------------------

September 10, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/special  B3
112
111
110
109
108
107
123
124
125
126
127
128
 
129
130
131
132
133
134
106
105
104
103
102
101
100
113114115116117118119120121122
135136137138139140141142
154
153
152
151
150
149
155
156
157
158
159
160
148
147
146
145
144
143
161
162
163
164
165
166
178
177
176
175
174
173
179
180
181
182
183
184
172
171
170
169
168
167
185
186
187
188
189
190
202
201
200
199
198
197
203
204
205
206
207
208
196
195
194
193
192
191
209
210
211
212
213
214
226
225
224
223
222
221
227
228
229
230
231
232
220
219
218
217
216
215
233
234
235
236
237
238
TUESDAYTechnical Opportunities Conference 10 a.m.5 p.m. in Wiegand Gym
10gen223
4moms159, 160
Academia.edu195
Adobe Systems, Inc.216, 217
AllianceBernstein133
Amadeus184
Andreessen Horowitz234, 235
Apple, Inc.121, 122
APT139
Avere Systems, Inc.146
Basis Technology Corp.200
Bechtel Marine Propulsion Corp.163
Bechtel Plant Machinery, Inc.164
Bloomberg203, 204
Branding Brand185
Bridgewater Associates129
Cadence Design Systems231
Central Intelligence Agency193, 194
Chopper Trading130
Cimation149
College Prowler104
Counsyl173
Coyote Logistics228
Credit Suisse Group115
D. E. Shaw Research211
DC Energy120
Electronic Arts, Inc.174
Elysium Digital227
EMC Corp.110
Enova Corp.181
ExxonMobil Corp.117
FactSet Research Systems, Inc.155
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission153
Flexible Architecture, Simpli?ed 
Technology
171
Fluke Networks218
Ford Motor Company106
foursquare178
GE Global Research126
General Dynamics C4 Syste107
General Electric Company127, 128
Grant Street Group198
Green Hills Software141
Halma plc.188
HDT Global224
Hudson River Trading169, 170
Hulu226
International Business Machines Corp. 
(IBM)
190
Intentional Software Corp.145
Junction Networks, Inc.210
Knight Capital Group205
Kulicke & Soffa Industries, Inc.230
Lab126221
Lexmark International, Inc.206
The Linde Group168
LinkedIn167
LORD Corp.237
The Lubrizol Corp.177
MAYA Companies236
M.C. Dean, Inc.209
ManTech International Corp.207
MathWorks, Inc.124
Mixpanel136
Mozilla131
MPR Associates, Inc.119
National Instruments161
NetApp, Inc.123
Next Jump229
NACCO Materials Handling Group 
(NMHG)
220
Nucor Steel116
NVIDIA232, 233
Oak Ridge National Laboratory213
Oblong Industries, Inc.156
OkCupid176
Opower162
Oak Ridge Institute for Science and 
Education (ORISE)
212
OSIsoft151
Panasas, Inc.172
Phoenix Contact111
PNC Financial Services Group, Inc.152
Qualcomm, Inc.222
Raytheon BBN Technologies183
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc.199
ReliabilityFirst Corp.189
Riverbed Technology, Inc.135
Salesforce.com, Inc.143, 144
Sapient Corp.109
Sequoia Capital191, 192
Smith Micro Software, Inc.225
Square, Inc.179
Takata Corp.197
Tallan, Inc.148
Tandent Vision Science, Inc.208
TerraSim, Inc.105
TripAdvisor157
Vistaprint175
VMware, Inc.187
Waste Management, Inc.101
WhatsApp, Inc.158
Yelp, Inc.103
Yext142
ZocDoc219
Zynga, Inc.196

---------------------------------------------------

B4  thetartan.org/special The Tartan  September 10, 2012
TUESDAYTechnical Opportunities Conference 10 a.m.5 p.m. in Rangos Ballroom
Abercrombie and Fitch344
Accenture324
Addepar303
Alcoa, Inc.323
Amazon.com, Inc.331
American Eagle Out?tters346
athenahealth, Inc.339
Bayer Technology Services328
Bazaarvoice326
Belvedere Trading347
Bose Corp.334
Butter?y Network, Inc.327
Capital One Financial Corp.338
Carnegie Learning, Inc.366
Chevron Corp.349
Cisco Systems, Inc.341, 342
Comprehend Systems, Inc.364
Compunetix, Inc.308
Deloitte357
Discovery Engine Corp.361
Dropbox, Inc.319, 320
Duolingo337
Esri321
Evernote333
Expedia336
Facebook367
Fusion-io352
General Dynamics Electric Boat359
IMC Financial Markets358
Infusion345
Intel Corp.329
IXL Learning325
Jane Street Capital355, 356
The Johns Hopkins University Applied 
Physics Laboratory
340
MetroStar Systems360
MicroStrategy, Inc.309
Morgan Stanley322
Motorola Mobility354
Northrop Grumman Corp.362
Oracle Hardware and Software 
Development
301, 302
Procter & Gamble310, 311
Quora343
Redbeacon353
Reddwerks Corp.335
SanDisk Corp.348
Shoe?tr363
Spongecell365
The Boeing Company304, 305
Thermopylae Sciences + Technology300
Tower Research Capital332
Twitter, Inc.307
Two Sigma Investments306
Verizon Communications, Inc.330
Yahoo!, Inc.350, 351
Stage
309310311308307
302
301
300
337
336
335
334
333
332
320
321
322
323
324
325
326
327
328
329
303
305
304
306
331330
319
340
339
338
344
345
346
347
348
349
341
342
343
355
354
353
352
351
350
358
357
356
362
363
364
365
366
367
359
360
361

---------------------------------------------------

September 10, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/special  B5
WEDNESDAYTechnical Opportunities Conference 10 a.m.5 p.m. in Wiegand Gym
4moms459, 460
The Advisory Board Company508
Allston Trading430
American Institutes for Research471
ANSYS, Inc.423
AOL, Inc532
Advanced Simulation Technology, Inc. 
(ASTi)
455
Avencore506
Backplane528
Bank of America Merrill Lynch429
Barclays452
Battelle Memorial Institute470
Braskem499
BrightRoll533
Broadcom421
Caterpillar, Inc.526
Cepstral441
Charter Manufacturing409
Chemical Abstracts Service (CAS)458
Chrysler443
Citrix Systems, Inc.422
CME Group431
comScore, Inc.415
CustomInk518
D. E. Shaw group405
Delphix Corp.463
Demiurge Studios411
Eastern Research Group, Inc. (ERG)494
eBay, Inc.417
Elliott Group476
Ernst & Young407
Etsy404
Explorys, Inc.419
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority 
(FINRA)
484
Fitbit, Inc.427
FiveStars Loyalty, Inc.446
Freddie Mac474
S&P Capital IQ536
Samsung Austin R&D Center478
Samsung Mobile473
Schlumberger Limited527
Social Security Administration (SSA)451
Source?re525
Space Explorations Technology Corp. 
(SpaceX)
428
Spiceworks535
Spot Trading537
SRA International, Inc.468
Summa Technologies497
Synacor, Inc.490
Tableau Software519
Tagged, Inc.496
Tata Consultancy Services Limited (TCS)426
Theranos, Inc.507
TrialPay469
Twilio517
United Services Automobile Association 
(USAA)
420
United States Postal Service (USPS)481
University of Pittsburgh Medical Center 
(UPMC)
453
U.S. Navy495
U.S. Patent and Trademark Of?ce444
U.S. Steel Corp.420
Venmo498
Vitech Systems Group, Inc.448
The Walt Disney Company534
Wayfair456
Webalo410
Westinghouse Electric Co.467
WhaleShark Media, Inc.445
Wolverine Trading510
Workday, Inc.524
Zappos.com, Inc.505
ZestFinance529
Zodiac Seat Shells487
412
411
410
409
408
407
423
424
425
426
427
428
 
429
430
431
432
433
434
406
405
404
403
402
401
400
413414415416417418419420421422
435436437438439440441442
454
453
452
451
450
449
455
456
457
458
459
460
448
447
446
445
444
443
461
462
463
464
465
466
478
477
476
475
474
473
479
480
481
482
483
484
472
471
470
469
468
467
485
486
487
488
489
490
502
501
500
499
498
497
503
504
505
506
507
508
496
495
494
493
492
491
509
510
511
512
513
514
526
525
524
523
522
521
527
528
529
530
531
532
520
519
518
517
516
515
533
534
535
536
537
538
GCS  The Cloud Company439
General Dynamics  AIS464
General Motors (GM)442
Group Commerce500
Groupon522
HGST, a Western Digital company436
Huge461
Hyland Software, Inc.504
Indeed.com531
Independent Security Evaluators (ISE)503
Intuit, Inc.512
Kyruus, Inc.416
L'Oral488
Limited Brands520
LongTail Video521
Lutron Electronics, Inc.424
MemSQL, Inc.523
Meraki477
MIT Lincoln Laboratory485
MITRE Corp.509
MModal491
Monetate403
Morningstar, Inc. (MORN)475
MSD Capital472
Netronome Systems, Inc.479
PDT Partners513
Pensieve462
PepsiCo435
PPG Industries, Inc.406
PwC449
Raymond James Financial493
RECSOLU530
Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute (RPI)457
Risk Management Solutions (RMS)483
Robert Bosch  Research and Technology 
Center
489
RockMelt492
Room 77511
Ropes & Gray LLP516

---------------------------------------------------

B6  thetartan.org/special The Tartan  September 10, 2012
THURSDAYBusiness Opportunities Conference 10 a.m.4 p.m.
Tepper Grand Room, Third Floor of Posner Hall
A.T. Kearney
Ascend Analytics
Blue?n Trading
BNY Mellon
The Boeing Company
Capital Dynamics
Capital One Financial Corp.
Chrysler Group
comScore, Inc.
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB)
Deloitte
eBay, Inc.
Epic Systems Corp.
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. (FDIC)
First National Bank of Pennsylvania
Giant Eagle, Inc.
Global Computer Enterprises, Inc.
International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)
Johnson & Johnson
MBA Admissions, Fort Foundation
McMaster-Carr Supply Company
National Security Agency (NSA)
PNC Financial Services Group, Inc.
PricewaterhouseCoopers
Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute
Union Paci?c Railroad
University of Pittsburgh Medical Center (UPMC)
Wayfair
Wolverine Trading
Workday, Inc.

---------------------------------------------------

Rhetoric of Das Racist
Why is Combination Pizza Hut and 
Taco Bell so good?  C5
09.10.12 Volume 107, Issue 3
Feminist and...

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
Hollywood movies and tacos are among the 
topics of this weeks comics.
11
Dollar Movie
AB Films presents four animated movies this 
week in McConomy Auditorium.
7
The Tartan . Box 119 . UC Suite 103 . Carnegie Mellon University . 5000 Forbes Ave . Pittsburgh, PA 15213 . www.thetartan.org .  2012 The Tartan
PUBLISHER Christa Hester EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Emily Dobler
PILLBOX EDITOR Allison Cosby ASSISTANT PILLBOX EDITOR Rachel Cohen COMICS EDITOR Nicole Hamilton 
ART EDITOR Adelaide Cole PHOTO EDITOR Jonathan Carreon 
COPY MANAGER Evan Kahn COVER Allison Cosby
9
35710
regulars...
Advice
Everything you need to know about fleeing the 
country and being a hot first-year.
3
...diversions
...this week only
ToonSeum
The ongoing exhibit Pittsburgh as Gotham City 
features a collection of Batman paraphernalia.
3
Prague
This weeks Tales from Abroad chronicles the 
authors adventures in the Czech Republic.
4
Das Racist
A Ph.D. student offers a rhetorical analysis of 
the alternative hip-hop group.
5
Never Sorry
This recent documentary explores the life and 
work of Chinese artist and dissident Ai Weiwei.
7
Jersey Boys
The hit Broadway musical brings 1960s rock 
and roll to Pittsburgh.
8
Feminist and...
The new Mattress Factory exhibit showcases 
works by six international female artists.
9
Centipede Hz
Animal Collectives newest album features few 
new elements.
10
Did You Know?
Did you know that the bathroom tiles on the 
walls of Scaife Hall have a scientific purpose?
10
Puzzles
Challenge yourself with this weeks sudoku and 
karuko puzzles.
13
Horoscopes
Try to make sense of this weeks special MadDashoscopes.
14
Calendar
Check the calendar for events happening on 
and off campus this week.
15

---------------------------------------------------

community
pillbox 09.10.123
Pittsburgh as Gotham City
ToonSeum exhibit showcases Batman memorabilia
In the midst of the stately turn-of-the-century high 
rises and gleaming skyscrapers of Downtown, the 
ToonSeum makes a colorful statement. In the front 
window, in the midst of a number of other whimsical 
decorations, a small Batarang inconspicuously hints 
at the comic wonders that can be found inside. 
Pittsburgh as Gotham City, a special exhibit that 
opened July 21, features all things that combine 
Batman and Pittsburgh, from comics to film 
paraphernalia.
The recent hype from the release of The Dark 
Knight Rises is clearly a driving force behind the 
exhibit; however, the ToonSeum has done justice 
to the entire franchise by including an array of 
merchandise from throughout the years.
The exhibit features numerous attractions, not the 
least of which is a wall of Batman comic panels from 
a variety of Pittsburgh artists that pays homage not 
only to the longevity of the legend, but also to the 
tremendous skill of local illustrators. The collection 
ranges from Pittsburgh Post-Gazette artist Rob 
Rogers biting political cartoons to dramatic scenes 
depicted in DC Comics books, and all feature a 
familiar masked figure.
One wall of the exhibit shows a video screen with 
clips from the cartoon series and the recent films, 
while a speaker blares a dramatic soundtrack to 
enhance the overall experience. Alongside the 
video clips, several mock-official Gotham City Police 
dossiers on criminals hang on the wall  all about 
actors from the series who have connections to 
Pittsburgh.
In fact, many of the criminals are Carnegie Mellon 
alumni, including Ming Na (the voice of Dectective 
Ellen Yin in the animated series), Frank Gorshin (the 
voice of Professor Hugo Strange in the animated 
series), and Lou Scheimer (who produced the series 
for several years).
Fans with a passion for behind-the-scenes glimpses 
of The Dark Knight Rises will go batty for the original 
concept art and location research photos on loan 
from Warner Bros. that adorn the walls of the exhibit. 
The photos and sketches feature scenes from around 
town, some of which are close to home for Carnegie 
Mellon students, including the Mellon Institute and 
the Software Engineering Institute. All of the scenes 
 especially the striking photo of a destroyed Heinz 
Field  are easily recognizable, both from the movie 
and from walking around town.
The highlight of the exhibit is undoubtedly the 
Batman mask, which sits in a glass case in the 
middle of the room. The mask on display was worn 
by Christian Bale in the most recent installment of 
The Dark Knight and allows visitors a quick and 
iconic glimpse at the costuming magic of the film.
Pittsburgh as Gotham City offers an in-depth look 
at the Batman franchise, from the original comics to 
the television series and films. Even if youre not a 
Batman aficionado, the exhibit is an interesting look 
at Pittsburghs affiliation with the franchise and is 
well worth the trip to the ToonSeum. The behindthe-scenes photos are fascinating, and Batmans 
connection to the city is enough to make any 
resident proud. 
Laura Scherb | Junior Staffwriter
Laura Scherb | Junior Photographer
Advice for awkward people
Dear Patrick,
I am an attractive female 
first-year, and all these 
older guys keep hitting on 
me. Its really distracting! 
So what if I dress in 
revealing clothes and 
only go to parties where 
I can get in for free and 
then talk about myself the 
whole time? Why cant 
these guys just give me 
my free drink and then 
leave me alone?
Thanks,
Earnest Seniors Purchase 
Every Cup I Acquire, 
Liquor, Libation, Yet 
Make Every Opportune 
Conversation Seductive
Dear ESPECIALLY THE 
OCS,
Thats a really tough 
problem. It must be so 
difficult to be a hot, young 
first-year. Im really interested 
in what you have to say. 
Please go on. This is so 
fascinating to me. I am 
maintaining appropriate 
amounts of eye contact and 
nodding at what you say 
in agreement. While were 
talking, Im throwing a party 
this weekend. You should 
totally swing by so we can 
hang out. And dont worry, 
you wont have to pay.
Oh wait, its past the first 
month of school? Never 
mind. For the first couple 
months of school, all the 
new students have that 
first-year spark. After their 
first grades start rolling in, 
that spark dies, and the 
first-years become just as 
unattractive as the rest of us. 
I am serious about that 
party, though. Swing by,
Patrick Hoskins
Dear Patrick,
For reasons I cant get 
into here, I need to flee 
the country immediately. 
I have 10 items, each of 
which weighs a different 
amount and has different 
value to me, but I can only 
take some of them with 
me. How can I decide 
what to pack so I can stay 
ahead of the authorities?
Please hurry,
Immediately Need Notice 
On Collecting Everything 
Necessary Tonight
Dear INNOCENT,
Unfortunately for you, youve 
stumbled upon the knapsack 
problem, a classic problem 
in combinatorics. The issue 
is that the problem is NPhard. As a computer science 
major, I am required to avoid 
all such problems. If it cant 
be solved in polynomial time, 
I cant do it.
Admittedly, actually doing 
the math to pack your bag 
wouldnt take long, but what 
am I, a mathematician? 
We computer scientists 
dont compromise when it 
comes to nondeterministic 
polynomial time! What we 
should really be focusing 
on is why youre fleeing the 
country in the first place. Id 
suggest a sincere apology 
to get you out of trouble. If 
in the meantime you happen 
to discover a polynomialtime algorithm for solving the 
knapsack problem, go on 
and forward that to me. 
Or just buy a bigger 
knapsack,
Patrick Hoskins
Need advice? Send queries 
to advice@thetartan.org.
About being a hot first-year and packing bags
Laura Scherb | Junior Photographer
The exhibit features a range of Batman-themed 
items, from old comic strips to film posters and 
more.
The ToonSeum, located at 945 Liberty Ave. in the 
Cultural District, will host the exhibit through Oct. 7.

---------------------------------------------------

4community
pillbox 09.10.12
Last fall, when I would tell people that I was spending 
the following semester studying abroad in the Czech 
Republic, I invariably received two questions: Do you 
even know Czech? and Do you at least know someone 
else studying abroad there too? When I cheerily replied, 
Nope! to both those questions, it was followed (usually 
a bit incredulously) by, Then, why would you pick the 
Czech Republic, of all places?
I wanted a city where I could take classes in English; a 
city that was in Europe but wasnt the usual Western 
European or Mediterannean locale to which so many 
American students tend to ?ock; and, to put it bluntly, 
a city that was cheap. Prague ?t all of those criteria 
perfectly. Plus, as someone with a minor in history, I 
couldnt resist the opportunity to visit a city that was 
a thousand years old  and that had been part of the 
Soviet bloc, a fact that piqued my geeky interest.
Now that Im back from Prague, people often ask me 
how my semester abroad was. Im not quite as quick to 
answer this question, as its dif?cult to summarize my 
experiences in and feelings about Prague in a few brief 
sentences.
Prague is a gorgeous city; the Vltava River winds 
through its heart, dividing neighborhoods packed with 
cobblestone streets, elaborately designed churches, and 
beautiful old buildings. Unlike most European cities, 
Prague wasnt bombed during either of the World Wars, 
meaning that many of its historic buildings and sites 
are still standing. From the 1,000-year-old Prague Castle 
complex and the Charles Bridge  which dates back 
to the 14th century  to the ordinary restaurants and 
apartment buildings that are hundreds of years old, the 
history was practically palpable on every street I walked 
down. I still remember how mind-blowing it was on my 
?rst day of classes to realize that my university building 
predated the formation of the United States.
It wasnt just the ancient history of Prague that 
fascinated me, though. Between the Nazi occupation 
and the communist regime, the 20th century was not 
kind to the Czech Republic; and, despite the citys 
best efforts, not every scar of the communist regime 
has been eradicated from Prague. Every monument to 
Soviet leaders may have been pulled down, but you 
can still occasionally ?nd relief sculptures celebrating 
the working class tattooed on the side of an apartment 
building.
Occasional Soviet architectural ghosts aside, Prague 
truly is beautiful. Many of my favorite days in the city 
were spent merely wandering the streets, my shoes 
wearing thin from the cobblestones as I walked down 
every side street to see what I could discover. I wanted 
to explore every park, every red-shingled apartment 
building, every massive Gothic church that I could ?nd. 
By the end of my semester there, I knew the city well 
enough to get around nearly anywhere, and I had stared 
at the skyline so often I could picture it with my eyes 
closed.
When I wasnt learning as much as I could about the 
physical layout of Prague, I was trying to discover 
everything I could about the Czech culture  and there 
was certainly plenty to explore. Prague is practically 
over?owing with the arts: Art galleries, book stores, 
and jazz clubs can be found on every street, and there 
are plenty of theater performances  including many 
in English  to choose from every night. Best of all, 
everything was relatively inexpensive, meaning that I 
could go to museums, concerts, and galleries and still 
have enough Czech crowns left to go out with my friends 
in the evening.
Perhaps the greatest thing about living in Prague was 
the people. Czechs are incredibly reserved in public 
 they are suspicious of strangers when they try to 
strike up conversation, and even making accidental eye 
contact on the tram is embarrassing for them  but 
theyre incredibly warm and friendly once you get to 
know them.
I also got to know many members of the Englishspeaking expatriate community; there are thousands of 
native English speakers living in Prague because they 
love the city, and many of them are interesting people 
dedicated to enjoying their life abroad. It made for a 
much slower lifestyle than here at Carnegie Mellon, 
which took some getting used to, but I learned to relax 
and appreciate the moment more, rather than just rush 
off to the next class or extracurricular activity.
This doesnt even begin to cover all the incredible 
memories I have of Prague and all of the anecdotes I 
have about the citys history, and yet it still doesnt 
succinctly answer the question How was your semester 
abroad? The best answer that I have to settle for, then, 
is that it was a semester in a mind-bogglingly beautiful 
place; a semester in which I did more and learned more 
than I ever would have expected.
Anna Walsh | Personnel Manager
Tales from Abroad: Prague
The author describes how she got to know the history and people of the Czech Republic

---------------------------------------------------

music
pillbox 09.10.125
A rhetorical analysis of Das Racist
A rhetoric Ph.D. student attempts to understand popularity of Combination Pizza Hut and Taco Bell
In 2008, the alternative hip-hop group Das Racist 
released a song, still heard today ringing from those 
gigantic speakers by the Fence, called Combination 
Pizza Hut and Taco Bell. The main refrain (and there are 
no verses, just refrain) goes:
Im at the Pizza Hut;
Im at the Taco Bell;
Im at the combination Pizza Hut and Taco Bell.
After Das Racists performance in Rangos Sept. 1, 
presented by AB Coffeehouse, I was inspired to do a 
rhetorical analysis to get to the bottom of one of the deep 
mysteries of our time. Why is this song so popular, and 
what is it about the combination Pizza Hut and Taco Bell 
(CPHTB)?
1. Repetition
Roman rhetorician Quintilian said in Book 8 of his 
Institutio Oratio that rhetorical ornament like repetition 
contributes not a little to the furtherance of our case as 
well. For when our audience ?nd it a pleasure to listen, 
their attention and their readiness to believe what they 
hear are both alike increased, while they are generally 
?lled with delight, and sometimes even transported by 
admiration.
Similarly, in an interview with the Village Voice, Das 
Racist MC Himanshu Suri (Heems) noted: My top 
?ve favorite poetic devices of all time are repetition, 
repetition, repetition, repetition, and repetition.
Suri isnt alone. Pop artists often use repetition in 
their songs to ?ll listeners with delight and transport 
them by admiration. Just think of John Mayers Say, 
Lady Gagas Edge of Glory, and Britney Spears 
Womanizer. People paradoxically love these songs 
and hate them, buying millions of copies even as they 
declare them to be insipid, vapid drivel because of their 
repetitiousness.
In this light, Combination Pizza Hut and Taco Bell can 
be read as counter-drivel. By caricaturing the trope of 
repetition into a grotesque parody, Das Racist makes 
an epistemic claim on repetition. After all, compared to 
Combination Pizza Hut and Taco Bell, the repetition 
in Justin Biebers Baby is so derivative. Das Racist 
thus allows hipsters to protest corporate patterns of 
commercialization through their appreciation for pop 
musics repetition as derivative  Das Racist ?lls them 
with delight, indeed.
2. Socioeconomic representations
Theres no getting around it: CPHTBs are not high 
class. Wall Street is not eager to hold business meetings 
at CPHTBs. The perfect date night does not usually 
include a CPHTB. In fact, with gas station snacks from 
Sheetz coming in at a close second, a CPHTB is foods 
equivalent of a brothel: late-night, cheap, guilt-inducing 
indulgences in saturated fat and grease.
As obesity rates soar in America, especially among the 
lower class, its no wonder that the nearest rhyme Das 
Racist can think of for Pizza Hut is pizza gut, and for 
Taco Bell, taco smell (and from there, to rolling Ls 
 CPHTBs go hand-in-hand with drug use). Many of 
us have experienced such places. But has Mitt Romney 
ever been to a CPHTB?
By choosing a socioeconomically loaded location, Das 
Racist allows audiences to identify with the common 
man. Real conversations take place by the people and 
for the people in local CPHTBs, not in Washington 
surrounded by wealthy delegates from around the 
country. Ever since the songs release four years ago, 
it seems like everyone is at a CPHTB. Solidarity comes 
from shared experiences like these.
3. Semantic confusion
With such simple, emphatic lyrics, Combination Pizza 
Hut and Taco Bell must carry a clear message, right? 
Close inspection, however, twists such dreams as Das 
Racist pulls us into a crisis of geographic (and personal) 
ambiguity.
In the ?rst iteration, I am at the CPHTB. In the second 
iteration, a second voice says I am at the CPHTB. 
Then three times we are at the CPHTB. This is 
representative of a traditional discovery of community 
centered around a culturally constructed place.
But then the pronouns fade and all the listener hears is 
the identi?cation of the place. Has individuality been 
subsumed in common purposes? Has eating limited 
personal expression?
Wait, wait. After another round of I, Das Racist 
delves into the personal consequences of CPHTBs, 
then fades back into reiteration of the CPHTB. While 
I dominates the rest of the song, it is no longer an 
unambiguous I with unambiguous location. Rather, the 
two Is are contrasted and put in tension.
Im at the Pizza Hut.
(No, you aint.)
Im at the Taco Bell!
(Im over here!)
Im at the combination Pizza Hut and Taco Bell, where 
you at?
(I dont see you!)
Here the failure to focus their two Is/eyes leads to 
disorientation and blindness. The combination of the 
two restaurants in one is a disaster, as the I-you duality 
breaks down and we are forced into the post-modern 
condition.
The confusion continues. The background beat becomes 
more insistent and distracting. A street name is 
discussed to no avail. We are in danger of losing touch 
with the place and people we identi?ed with so strongly 
at the beginning of the song. Then, with a quick laugh 
 as at a joke  unity is restored and the harmonious 
I reemerges.
The drama works to reinforce the listeners faith in the 
combination Pizza Hut and Taco Bell. Over time, we are 
persuaded that, through mutual cooperation, society can 
emerge with resounding clarity and feeling. Our spirits 
cry out as one, Im at the combination Pizza Hut and 
Taco Bell!
Will Penman | Staffwriter
Editors Note: Will Penman is a ?rst-year rhetoric Ph.D. 
student.
Courtesy of mstaken.com
Im at the combination Pizza Hut and Taco Bell, 
repeats Das Racist in its hit song Combination Pizza 
Hut and Taco Bell.

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

film
pillbox 09.10.127
Coming from anyone else, the phrase, As an individual, 
you can be more powerful than a whole country, would 
seem hopelessly nave.
But for Ai Weiwei, Chinese artist, dissident, and the 
subject of the recent documentary Ai Weiwei: Never 
Sorry, this statement is not only obvious fact  it may as 
well be the motto for his lifes work.
Never Sorry, currently playing at the Harris Theater 
in Downtown, chronicles Ais life and work in protest 
against an oppressive political regime. Famed for his 
incendiary and often profane artistic voice, Ai frequently 
found himself at odds with the Chinese government  
from publicly criticizing the 2008 Beijing Olympics to 
investigating the deaths of thousands of schoolchildren 
in the 2008 Sichuan earthquake. Although it does not 
focus on Ais artistic ventures, Never Sorry perfectly 
balances political context with Ais rich personal story.
Created by ?rst-time director Alison Klayman during her 
time as a freelance journalist in China, the ?lm has won 
several international awards, including the Special Jury 
Prize at the Sundance Film Festival and Of?cial Selection 
at the Berlin International Film Festival. According to 
the documentary website, the ?lm aims to highlight 
a digital-age dissident who inspires on a global scale 
through a combination of art and politics.
Never Sorry slowly draws out Ais character over the 
course of the ?lm. While the documentary centers 
primarily on his political work, the ?lmmakers also grant 
viewers insightful glimpses into the man behind the 
work, including a particularly poignant response to an 
interview question, a touching conversation with his 
mother, and a ?ash of de?ance when he recounts his 
latest brush with the police. The result is a rich and 
compelling portrait of Ai: a humble yet stoic 55-year-old 
man, deeply burdened by his activism but duty-bound to 
continue it.
The disappointingly few artistic pieces featured in the 
?lm are powerful and fascinating: His 1997 work CocaCola vase, for example, features a Neolithic vase (over 
3,000 years old) with a simple Coca-Cola logo painted 
across the front. Though certainly an act of de?ance 
against the current Chinese establishment, this piece 
has important artistic merit, even when removed from 
the political context.
By defaming something so ancient and culturally sacred, 
Ai has raised a highly provocative and artistically 
valid question: Are some objects so sacred as to be 
untouchable? Or are all objects simply objects? Amid the 
more dominant political elements of the ?lm, messages 
like these  which are also important to understanding 
Ais life and work  are often lost.
Although the ?lm does not fully explore all aspects of 
Ais life and work, Never Sorry strikes a good balance 
between condemning the Chinese government and 
praising one of its dissidents. The ?lm is far from pure 
propaganda, and yet throughout the documentary we are 
constantly reminded of the grave context surrounding 
Ais work. Amid this commentary, the ?lmmakers are 
also able to ?esh out Ais fascinating and oftentimes 
elusive character. In this way, Ai Weiwei: Never Sorry 
is in equal parts a compelling portrait of a daring artist 
and a criticism of the oppressive circumstances that 
surround him.
Rachel Cohen | Assistant Pillbox Editor
Ai Weiwei: Never Sorry will be playing at the Harris 
Theater (809 Liberty Ave.) through Sept. 13.
Never Sorry paints compelling portrait of Ai Weiwei
Documentary ?lm reveals Chinese artists character, personal history, and legacy
Matthew Zurcher | Junior Staffwriter
Mew faces off against Mewtwo in this 
bizarre, episodic adaptation of the 
franchise we all spent our childhood 
allowances on. Released stateside in 
1999, at the height of a prepubescent 
frenzy rivaled only by POGs and 
Cabbage Patch Kids, Pokmon: The 
First Movie grossed over $160 million. 
Enthusiasts should prepare for a stroke 
of nostalgia as Ash, Pikachu, Misty, 
Brock, and Team Rocket preach a 
sermon of anti-violence didactic enough 
to roll the eyes of children everywhere.
Pokmon: The First Movie
Thursday, Sept. 13
10 12
Steamboy
Saturday, Sept. 15
7:30 10 12:30
After 10 years in production, almost 
200,000 individual drawings, and 
one of the biggest budgets in 
Japanese animation history, Steamboy 
triumphantly arrived in 2004. Since 
then, it has gathered a strong following 
and high status among steampunk 
enthusiasts. Director Katsuhiro Otomo, 
of Akira fame, produces a second ?lm 
with spectacular sci-? sweep and bold 
imagination. The story is historical, 
challenging, and occasionally obtuse, 
but Patrick Stewart and Anna Paquin 
serve as excellent guides in two 
memorable vocal performances.
Brave
Friday, Sept. 14
8 10 12
Merida is not your standard Disney 
Princess. As Pixars most recent effort, 
Brave draws a portrait of a strong, 
roguish young woman who decides to 
stand up for her right to think for herself. 
If lacking in the type of groundbreaking 
narrative ?ourish that weve come to 
expect from the studio, Brave is still 
a delicious feast of visual delight. The 
Scottish Highlands are rendered in 
astonishing detail and with plenty of 
cinematic panache.
Rango
Sunday, Sept. 16
6 8 10
Not only was Rango far-and-away the 
best animated work of 2011, it was one 
of the best ?lms of the year  proving 
that were living in a new golden age 
of animation where Pixar isnt the only 
studio capable of expanding the visual 
and narrative template. It proudly sports 
a package of vocal performances that 
rank as the ?nest in recent memory. 
Johnny Depp plays Rango, an 
accidental sheriff who reinvents himself 
and changes a town forever. Rango 
ambitiously sets out to do no less than 
repackage and market the Western to 
a new generation, both subverting and 
paying homage to the recognizable 
genre conventions.
dollarmovie
McConomy Auditorium, University Center

---------------------------------------------------

8theater
pillbox 09.10.12
An explosion of 1960s rock and roll known as Jersey 
Boys has made its way to Pittsburgh, and is playing at 
the Benedum Center until Sept. 23. This hit Broadway 
musical outlines famous pop band Frankie Valli and The 
Four Seasons rise to fame. The tour production opened 
last Tuesday and has already begun playing to full 
houses. The current cast features two Carnegie Mellon 
alumni, both of whom give stellar performances.
Jersey Boys tells the story of Frankie Valli and his 
journey from being a boy with talent to an international 
superstar. Act I revolves around Tommy DeVito and 
his attempts to create a successful music quartet; the 
second half of the musical focuses on the now-successful 
quartet and its troubles with fame, money, and family.
Despite its small size, the cast of the production is 
fantastic. Brad Weinstock steals the show as the iconic 
Frankie Valli, and his performance is supported by an 
unforgettable Tommy DeVito, played by Colby Foytik. 
Jason Kappus is extremely entertaining as Bob Gaudio, 
and although Brandon Andrus is the least featured 
among the four, he is memorable as Nick Massi.
The staging throughout the show is sleek and the 
transitions are smooth. Pop art images are displayed on 
an electronic billboard that ?ies over the stage in nearly 
every scene. This vibrant display is a clever method 
of introducing scene changes and helps keep the 
transitions moving.
Jersey Boys acts as a time warp, transporting the 
audience back to the 1960s. Eye-catching costumes, 
thrilling music, and traditional set pieces all add to the 
60s atmosphere. The show features several hit songs 
such as Walk Like a Man, Bye Bye Baby, and the 
show favorite, Cant Take My Eyes Off You.
The musical is fast paced, with many small character 
roles in addition to the four main actors. Among them 
is Vallis girlfriend Loraine, played by Carnegie Mellon 
alumna Kaleigh Cronin. Cronin, who graduated in 2011 
with a degree in musical theatre, plays a total of 18 
different characters in the show. There are only three 
women in the show; we play over 50 parts combined, 
Cronin said. And thats everything from waitresses to 
the boys mothers and girlfriends and nurses.
Also part of the cast is Skye Scott, a 2010 alum of the 
Carnegie Mellon musical theatre program. Like Cronin, 
Scott plays multiple characters in the show, although 
his primary character is Billy Dixon. Its really exciting 
every night to go through this journey of playing so many 
different people, Scott said. Its a little crazy because 
youre changing costumes constantly and backstage is 
very hectic, but its a blast.
Jersey Boys requires actors to make quick costume and 
set changes; however, Scott and Cronin both attest that 
their time at Carnegie Mellon trained them well for this 
type of show.
In her senior year, Cronin was one of three actors in a 
show called Vanishing Point. I had to play a million 
parts in that, Cronin explained, and it really prepared 
me for an experience like Jersey Boys. Lots of costume 
changes, jumping between voices and characters. That 
was actually the perfect segway into my role in Jersey 
Boys.
With its classic music and great American success story, 
its no wonder that Jersey Boys is drawing in theater 
patrons from across the country. So far, the show has 
experienced an enthusiastic reception from the public 
 even at the preview night last Tuesday. Usually for 
preview nights, people arent so responsive, Cronin 
said, but it was awesome. There were tons of people 
there and the crowd was great.
The tour cast has been making its way across the nation 
for nearly a year, and Pittsburgh is just one stop of many. 
As Scott put it, Were getting paid to tour the country 
and experience every city. Weve been doing the show 
for 10 months now.... Were really in a great groove now 
with the show.
Indeed, this groove is evident throughout the 
performance as all of the actors change roles seamlessly 
and maintain their energy throughout the performance. 
Jersey Boys is the most amazing show. It appeals to 
everyone, Cronin said. I used to think it was a show 
for people my grandparents age, but it really is so much 
fun.
Zachary Mendez | Junior Staffwriter
Jersey Boys runs through Sept. 23 at the Benedum 
Center (803 Liberty Ave.).
Jersey Boys tour features alumni actors
Traveling tour stops at Benedum Center, with two CMU School of Drama alumni

---------------------------------------------------

art
pillbox 09.10.129
Left: Senior global studies major Jena Tegeler walks through Parastou Forouhars Written Room.
Right: Senior mechanical engineering major Patrick Hogan participates in Betsy Damons piece about water 
resources in the basement of the Mattress Factory.
Feminism is not just about women and not just about 
identity politics. Its a way of thinking, and it affects 
everything.
Visitors to the Mattress Factorys latest exhibition, 
Feminist and..., will likely be surprised at its content. 
While all of the pieces are clearly based on an 
understanding of feminist ideals, they are not overtly 
about feminist issues. But as curator Hilary Robinson 
noted above, feminism is a way of thinking, not a set of 
beliefs. In fact, much of the feminism in the exhibit is 
actually what viewers bring with them when they walk 
through the door.
The exhibit, which is guest-curated by Robinson  a 
professor of art theory and criticism at Carnegie Mellon 
 features work by six female artists from around the 
world: Ayanah Moor, Julia Cahill, Parastou Forouhar, 
Carrie Mae Weems, Loraine Leeson, and Betsy Damon. 
Together, their work shows that feminism is not a 
single set of political beliefs; rather, it is as diverse as 
the art world itself: multivocal, multigenerational, and 
multicultural.
The idea for the exhibit came to Robinson three years 
ago after she saw a presentation by Weems responding 
to the election of President Barack Obama. I thought, 
here is this woman who I know is a feminist, who has 
been informed by feminist thinking, responding to a 
historical moment, Robinson said.
The idea of womens responses to historic events  
and how their experiences and cultures shape that 
response  was the basis for the exhibit. Indeed, 
each of the artists in the exhibit offers a unique 
perspective, reacting to what she sees as feminism in an 
individualized way.
The highlight of the exhibit is Forouhars Written 
Room, in which she covered the walls and ?oor 
of a room with Farsi script. Because the text is 
incomprehensible to those who cant read Farsi  
the majority of Western viewers  it becomes pure 
ornament and viewers are forced to either accept that 
they cannot read it or project meaning onto it.
Surrounded by the patterns on all sides, viewers are 
completely immersed in the script and are likely to 
assume that it says something meaningful and exotic 
 when, in fact, the script is just a jumble of letters and 
syllables. The whole point of it is that its nonsense.... 
We can project meaning onto it, but really theres 
nothing there. But as Westerners, we really have no 
idea, Robinson explained.
In the room behind Forouhars piece is Weems Lincoln, 
Lonnie and Me  A Story in 5 Parts, an 18-minute 
video projection project. The video is projected into 
the black space between bright red theater curtains, 
creating a ghostly effect. Weems work investigates 
family relationships, gender roles, and the histories 
of racism, sexism, class, and other political systems. 
Through its video clips and voice-overs, her piece 
presents a strong call to action and reminds us that we 
cannot engage in thoughtful debate when we all have 
strong preconceived notions of what is right. Through 
her piece, she encourages viewers to remember what 
women are ?ghting for now and what they have been 
?ghting for throughout history.
The youngest of the six artists, Cahill presented the 
most obvious feminist piece in the exhibit. Cahill, who 
graduated from Carnegie Mellon with a Bachelor of Fine 
Arts in May, typically works with performance and video 
art to present her commentary on pop culture. For her 
piece for Feminist and..., Breasts in the Press, Cahill 
rewrote the lyrics to My Humps, a pop song by the 
Black Eyed Peas. I like to look at songs that are sung by 
female pop stars that are often seen as empowering, but 
when you actually look at the song lyrics its quite the 
opposite, she said.
Small videos of Cahill performing her reworded song are 
projected onto a large statue reminiscent of Venus de 
Milo  just with much larger breasts.
I basically just gave her a boob job with plaster, 
Cahill said. Explaining her decision to exaggerate the 
sculptures female form, she said, What I really love to 
do with my work is get a message across through humor. 
And its a challenge because I dont want to make it 
seem like Im making fun of issues  its a very ?ne 
line. I want people to laugh a little bit but realize that its 
something very serious.
On the whole, the exhibit does an excellent job of 
representing a wide range of perspectives on feminism. 
While each of the pieces certainly has some feminist 
undertones, its not intimidating to those unfamiliar 
with feminist theory. The pieces are not overtly about 
feminism or feminist issues, but the title of the exhibit 
invites viewers to interpret each of the pieces with their 
idea of feminism in mind.
While this abstraction makes the exhibit very accesible 
to a wide audience, it does leave something to be 
desired. Without paying very close attention or 
having background knowledge of the artists, it can be 
unclear what some of the pieces are trying to say. The 
descriptions provided in the gallery guide give some 
information, but they are hardly enough to understand 
the point of the exhibit.
In the end, though, the exhibit is not about what we 
typically think of as feminism, and leaving it open for 
interpretation is more realistic of the movement itself. 
As Robinson put it, [Feminist and...] says that feminism 
is not something of the 1970s.... Feminism is important, 
and it is urgent.
Allison Cosby | Pillbox Editor
Feminist and... showcases multifaceted movement
New exhibit guest-curated by CMU School of Art professor opens at Mattress Factory
Allison Cosby | Pillbox Editor

---------------------------------------------------

10music
pillbox 09.10.12
Its tough being the quintessential hipster band of 
the new millennium.
Animal Collective didnt create this label, of course, 
but the group of post-twenty-somethings (a.k.a. 
thirty-somethings) certainly asked for it: The lyrics 
are rambling and frequently silly, the beat is complex 
and interesting, and  most importantly  the 
groups members experiment with so many different 
styles that its dif?cult to label theirs as one type of 
music.
Take Animal Collectives progression over the years. 
The group has felt the need to morph itself, from 
the twitches and yelps of 2004s high-strung Sung 
Tongs to the laid-back wa-was of the bands big 
hit Merriweather Post Pavilion. One would assume, 
then, that the new album Centipede Hz would keep 
moving in that direction, perhaps with less focus on 
the vocals than ever before.
With Centipede Hz, the band takes two drastic 
departures from the feel-good albums of its recent 
past. The ?rst is that the bands members wrote and 
recorded this album all together in the same location 
 a rare treat. And second, perhaps in?uenced 
by the previous fact, they break the progression, 
making an album that sounds more like a synthesis 
of old and new, a coupling of the concentrated 
vocals of early albums and the laid-back nature of 
newer ones.
The albums ?rst song, Moonjock, is a perfect 
example of the albums entire aesthetic, and is 
proof that the bands break from a chill indie style 
was deliberate. This is the new, says a distant 
radio announcer, and then come some crashes that 
would make any regular listener of Merriweather 
Post Pavilion jump. When founding member Avey 
Tare comes in with his vocals, it becomes apparent 
that this is still feel-good music  just a little more 
spastic than the Collectives albums since 2007.
Centipede Hz should be great. It should take 
what worked from all their previous albums and 
modify it to near perfection, expertly balancing 
lush and brittle. And they nearly make it  but 
theres something a little off-putting about most of 
the songs, especially for those who have followed 
Animal Collective since its early days: The only new 
thing about Centipede Hz is that theres nothing 
new.
On every Collective album up to now, the band 
has always had something original to offer, a new 
soundscape for the listener to traverse. Centipede 
Hz feels like a mash-up of its styles before and 
after 2007s Strawberry Jam, and that can be a bit 
disappointing when experiencing the album.
This doesnt mean that the album isnt a good listen. 
Animal Collective knows by now how to make great 
album pieces, and in Centipede Hz each song ?ows 
into the next ?awlessly. Applesauce is a bubbly, 
nonsensical, and thoroughly enjoyable song, and 
listening to Wide Eyed  which has Deakin 
on vocals, a welcome change from Tares howls 
 elicits a vision of a huge crowd swaying and 
shouting along. Todays Supernatural, the most 
advertised song from the album, is certainly the 
most mainstream-sounding piece, which coming 
from Animal Collective is a bit strange. But its a 
pretty great song, nonetheless.
This album would be a great listen for those who 
want an introduction to Animal Collective, since  
while its not exactly indicative of everything the 
bands done so far  it still showcases what the 
band is capable of.
Evan Kahn | Copy Manager
Centipede Hz nearly shines
Animal Collective has the lungs, but needs new legs
Animal Collectives new album Centipede Hz was 
released last Tuesday by Domino Records.
Courtesy of Domino Records
Catherine Spence | Staffwriter
Did you know?
100years ago
Oct. 3, 1912
The Tartan advertises a need for 
new female writers to report on                                                         
happenings at Margaret Morrison 
College. The ad urges women to be 
proactive and offer up a piece for 
publishing instead of complaining 
about how very little is published about 
the school.
50years ago
 
Sept. 26, 1962
Scaife Hall opens for the fall semester. 
An aluminum screen surrounding the 
building is supposed to keep out the 
sun until 4:30 p.m. every afternoon, 
due in part to the ceramic tile covering 
the inside of the building. The science 
is poorly explained, but its nice to 
know that someone tried to justify that 
awful bath tile in the stairwells.
25years ago
Sept. 9, 1987
A column addressing the lacking love 
lives of students researches male and 
female interactions on campus. The 
article calls out women for heading to 
clusters wearing pajamas, slippers, 
and athletic gear. The students of 1987 
would shudder to see what happens 
now in Gates 3000.
10years ago
Sept. 9, 2002
A costly glitch in the dining system 
allows students access to hundreds of 
dollars of free food and groceries at 
Skibo, The Original Hot Dog Shop, and 
the Underground. Students are quick 
to take advantage by purchasing cases 
of water, food, and other goods without 
charge.
5years ago
Sept. 10, 2007
A second bomb threat of the semester 
threatens Whitfield Hall, an off-campus 
administrative building located in 
Oakland. The threat was sent via 
email but was not discovered and 
acknowledged until three days later. 
Luckily the threat turned out to be 
fake, but the delayed response seems 
like a bit of a security issue.
1year ago
Sept. 12, 2011
Bill Dietrichs $265 million donation 
brings a ceremony, college name 
change, and concert to campus 
in celebration of one of the largest 
monetary donations in Carnegie Mellon 
history. So thank you, Bill. Were still 
using your cups every weekend.

---------------------------------------------------

comics
pillbox 09.10.1211
Novels to Movies by Doghouse Diaries
doghousediaries@gmail.com
PhD Comics by Jorge Cham
jorge@phdcomics.com
Tacos by Reza Farazmand
poorlydrawnlines@gmail.com

---------------------------------------------------

12comics
pillbox 09.10.12
Stick Cats #2 by Nick Marino nickmarino@gmail.com
  Online at www.lnickmarino.net
Hark, a Vagrant by Kate Beaton
kathrynmoira@gmail.com

---------------------------------------------------

puzzle
pillbox 09.10.1213
Solutions from Aug. 27, 2012
CrosswordEasy DifficultyMedium Difficulty
Kakuro Puzzle: Easy Difficulty Sudoku Puzzle: Very Hard Difficulty
Sudoku courtesy of www.opensky.ca/~jdhildeb/software/
sudokugen/Kakuro courtesy of www.krazydad.com/kakuro
Fill all empty squares using numbers 1 to 9 so the sum of 
each row equals the clue on its left, and the sum of each 
column equals the clue on its top. No number may be used 
in the same row or column more than once.

---------------------------------------------------

14horoscopes
pillbox 09.10.12
 1. On ____ with
 2. Antitoxins
 3. Wagon
 4. Blind as ____
 5. Domesticated fowl collectively
 6. Gal of song
 7. Counterfeiter catcher
 8. Yellow-fever mosquito
 9. Salutation
 10. Theater district
 11. First name in cosmetics
 12. At _____ for words
 13. Department store department
 21. Before, once
 23. Floridas Miami-____ County
 25. City on the Ruhr
 27. Son of Isaac and Rebekah
 28. Guitarist Lofgren
 29. Fast fliers
 30. Born in the ___
 34. El ___
 35. Broadcasting
 36. Rat-___
 37. First name in jeans
 38. Just ____!
 40. Baseball
 41. Stutz contemporary
 43. Tent stick
 44. Confined
 45. Bridal paths
 47. Immerse
 48. Loses heat
 49. Grasps
 50. Country bumpkin
 52. Med. care providers
 53. Learned
 55. Ark builder
 56. Thus
 57. Id hate to break up ____
 58. Actress Petty
 61. Hush-hush org.
  1. Songwriters org.
  6. Male deer
 10. Quantity of paper
 14. Singer Bryson
 15. From the U.S.
 16. Wight or Man
 17. Chilean pianist Claudio
 18. Fill with cargo
 19. Lots and lots
 20. Childs toy
 22. Unnecessary
 24. Quattro minus uno
 26. Declares
 27. Guarantees
 31. Wedding words
 32. Actress Spacek
 33. Teatime treat
 36. Menu words
 39. Neighbor of Sask.
 40. Existence
 41. Numbered rds.
 42. Battleship letters
 43. White-and-black bearlike 
mammal
 44. Hit the road
 45. Youve got mail co.
 46. Stupid
 48. Feeling cold
 51. Outer edge
 52. Jail
 54. Kind of gland
 59. Gangsters gal
 60. Related by blood
 62. Trunk
 63. Shoppe sign word
 64. Untidy condition
 65. Enthusiastic
 66. Flat sound
 67. Zenos home
 68. Loincloth worn by Hindu men
 
ACROSSDOWN
MadDash-oscopes
aries
march 21april 19
Your love life is really _____ and you couldnt be ______. 
Make sure the ones you love _____ _____ so that they will 
never lose sight of the feeling you have for them.
taurus
april 20may 20
Youre so _____ because you have the _____ professor in 
the world. The way your professor ______ and ___ should 
earn them an award for _____ _____ _____ _____. You 
would gladly provide the presentation speech.
gemini
may 21june 21
Your significant other is _____ cheating on you. How could 
you ever doubt it?
cancer
june 22july 22
Life is like a _____ ___ _____, you __ ___ _____ _____ 
_____ _____.
leo
july 23aug. 22 
This week people are going to try and get you down, but 
you will _____ _____ and show them whos _____. Go up to 
someone who is hating on you this week and say, _____ 
_____ _____!
virgo
aug. 23sept. 22
Stop filling in dirty words into all of the other horoscopes, or 
at least come up with something better.
libra
sept. 23oct. 22
I know that you dream of _____ _____ one day, but you 
need to reevaluate this goal. Life is too short for such a 
small dream. Dream bigger and reach for the _____.
scorpio
oct. 23nov. 21
.-. . .- .-.. .-.. -.--   .-- .... .- -   .... .- - ....   --. --- -..   .-- .-. 
--- ..- --. .... - ..--..
sagittarius
nov. 22dec. 21
All your wishes and dreams will come true.  All you need to 
do is _____ _____ _____ _____ _____ _____ and then _____ 
_____ _____. After the leprechaun gives the okay, then 
youre set.
capricorn
dec. 22jan. 19
Tell your roommate that you are _____ _____ _____ _____ 
_____ _____. He or she must proclaim it to be true, since it 
is printed in a newspaper.
aquarius
jan. 20feb. 18
Your inbox after the Activities Fair : _____ :: Small puppies : 
_____.
pisces
feb. 19march 20
This bright day will bring you nothing but _____. Expect 
there to be _____ _____ _____ come Wednesday.
Nicole Hamilton | Comics Editor
Crossword courtesy of BestCrosswords.com

---------------------------------------------------

calendar
pillbox 09.10.1215
MONDAY9.10.12
Frank Turner & The Sleeping Souls. Mr. Smalls 
Theater. 7:30 p.m.
English folk punk singer Frank Turner will perform at Mr. 
Smalls Theater. Opening for Turner will be American 
punk-bluegrass group Larry and His Flask and singersongwriter Jenny Owen Youngs.
TUESDAY9.11.12
Camille Utterback lecture. Kresge Theater. 5 p.m.
Internationally acclaimed artist Camille Utterback will give 
a lecture as part of the College of Fine Arts lecture series. 
Utterbacks work focuses on interactive installations and 
reactive sculptures that engage viewers in a process 
of discovery and play. In her pieces, she explores the 
possibilities of linking human movement and computation 
systems in layered and often humorous ways.
Sondre Lerche. New Hazlett Theater. 7 p.m.
The Norwegian singer, songwriter, and guitarist will 
perform at the New Hazlett Theater in Pittsburghs 
Northside.
WEDNESDAY9.12.12
Strike. Big Idea Bookstore (4812 Liberty Ave.). 6 p.m.
Enjoy a screening of Strike, a 1925 silent ?lm by 
legendary Russian ?lmmaker Sergei Eisenstein. The 
?lm tells the story of a strike in 1903 by factory workers 
in pre-revolutionary Russia, and of their subsequent 
suppression.
THURSDAY9.13.12
Amy Goodman: The Silenced Majority. McConomy 
Auditorium. 7 p.m.
Host of radio news program Democracy Now! Amy 
Goodman will give a lecture and signing of her upcoming 
book The Silenced Majority: Stories of Uprisings, 
Occupations, Resistance, and Hope, which she coauthored with former co-worker Denis Moynihan. The 
event is free for students and bene?ts WRCT 88.3 FM 
and PCTV Channel 21.
Wye Oak. Mr. Smalls Theater. 8 p.m.
Baltimore-based folk rock duo Wye Oak will perform at 
Mr. Smalls Theater, with Callers and Cold Weather as 
openers.
FRIDAY9.14.12
Imperfect Health opening reception. Miller Gallery.  
6 p.m.
Curated by Giovanna Borasi and Mirko Zardini, Imperfect 
Health: The Medicalization of Architecture features a 
range of works, from photographs and video to sculpture 
and architectural models. Together, these works examine 
the complex relationships between design and health.
SATURDAY9.15.12
Detour opening party. 6119 (6119 Penn Ave.). 10 p.m.
A new dance party  taking place every other month 
kicks off Saturday, featuring student DJs Chloe Lula 
(sophomore professional writing major), Miroslav Azis 
(senior industrial design major), and Alex Price (senior 
business administration major) as well as Carnegie 
Mellon alum Naeem Martinez-White and WRCT DJ Juan 
Lafontaine (Gusto). Visuals will be provided by local artist 
Ben Tabas and Carnegie Mellon alum Tim Sherman. The 
event costs $5.
ONGOING
The Practical Romantic. Pittsburgh Center for the Arts. 
Through Oct. 28.
The exhibit features pieces by Philadelphia artist Lewis 
Colburn, including a replica of a rock formation in 
Germany and photographs of nature and art.
Gestures: Intimate Friction. The Mattress Factory. 
Through Nov. 30.
Guest-curated by Carnegie Mellon adjunct associate 
professor of architecture Mary-Lou Arscott, this thoughtprovoking exhibition showcases an intersection of works 
by artists, architects, and activists at the installation 
art museums smaller location at 1414 Monterey St. 
Admission is free for Carnegie Mellon students.
Feminist and... The Mattress Factory. Through May 26.
This exhibit features works by six female artists from 
around the world, aiming to show that feminism is a 
multivocal, multigenerational, and multicultural movement, 
not a single-issue set of political beliefs. The exhibit is 
guest-curated by Carnegie Mellon professor of art theory 
and criticism Hilary Robinson.
UPCOMING
Portraits of a Garden, Brooklyn Botanic Garden 
Florilegium. Hunt Institute for Botanical Documentation, 
Hunt Library, Fifth Floor. Sept. 21.
The exhibit will showcase work from 48 American 
botanical artists who are creating an archive of 
watercolors and drawings of the plants growing at the 
Brooklyn Botanic Garden (BBG). The selected pieces are 
on loan from the BBGs permanent collection and will be 
displayed with historical printed volumes from the Hunt 
Institutes collection that represent the ?orilegium tradition.
Compiled by Allison Cosby | Pillbox Editor
Want your event here?
Email calendar@thetartan.org.
Classifieds
Agency Contact Representative - Be part 
of a energized, fun, and productive team. 
We are looking for someone whos upbeat, 
talkative, friendly, and projects a good attitude. 
Candidates who dont accept NO too easily. 
Part-time $10/hr. 412-874-1893
CONSTITUTION DAY. M, Sept. 17, 3-5 p.m. 
at Posner Ctr. U.S. Bill of Rights (1792) on 
display. Judge Hugh McGough at 3:30.
RESEARCH STUDY- MRI and two 
interview sessions seeks healthy adults ages 
3560. Cannot have low blood pressure, 
hypertension, heart disease, or diabetes. $150 
compensation. Call Kim at 412-246-6200 or 
novakkj@upmc.edu.
Seeking college student for part time 
afterschool child care, household chores, and 
driving for Fox Chapel family. If interested, 
please contact Hannah at 412-849-4731.

---------------------------------------------------

16gallery
pillbox 09.10.12
Courtesy of Lorena Lopez
The annual KGB Underground Tour took place last Friday, drawing a huge crowd. KGB of?cers  
Adam Leibowitz (senior chemical engineering major), Kelly Harrington (senior computer science 
major), Margaret Meyerhofer (senior computer science and math double major), and Alexander 
Orenstein (junior biological sciences major)  led students around campus, telling them everything 
they wouldnt hear on a normal campus tour and taking them to lesser-known parts of campus.
underground tour.
