PILLBOX
Carnegie Mellons student newspaper since 1906
SPORTSFORUM
School of Drama puts on hilarious production  B8Soccer teams fall in NCAA tournament  A10Students should be involved in SBVP appointment  A8
CHRIS GALVIN
Junior Staffwriter
After nearly four months 
of bargaining, food service 
contractor CulinArt Inc. and 
32BJ Service Employees International Union (SEIU), the 
union representing Carnegie 
Mellons food service workers, have come to an agreement on a new contract.
The new three-year contract extends from October 
2013 to Sept. 30,  2016. It 
includes wages 1214 percent higher than the original 
employee wage of $10.30 
per hour, as well as a more 
lenient disciplinary policy, 
which shortens the length of 
time an employee can be penalized for an incident.
Hermaine Delaney, SEIU 
Western Pennsylvania director, said the bargaining 
process was touch and go, 
kind of dif?cult at moments. 
Once [we] start getting into 
the economic part of the contract, it gets kind of sticky.
The process was an atmosphere of respect and 
good-faith negotiations, said 
Michael Pitkewicz, vice president of Human Resources at 
CulinArt. We have a collective bargaining agreement in 
place and I believe were all 
happy with that.
They used to hold stuff 
over our heads for three years 
and now after 12 months 
they have to take it out of our 
?le, said Kim Squirrel, head 
vegan and vegetarian chef at 
Carnegie Mellon. That got a 
lot of employees to be terminated for stuff that had happened three years ago.
The unions main goal was 
to raise the minimum wage 
of CulinArt employees. [CulinArt] has a two-tier wage 
system, where people who 
were hired at a certain date 
make two dollars or so an 
hour more than people who 
were hired after that particular date.... A majority of 
people who work at CulinArt, 
theyre in that lower tier, 
Delaney said. Our mission 
was to try and close that gap, 
and we succeeded in making 
it a smaller gap for next time 
when they bargain... it will be 
easier to close it.
The settlement also fell 
short concerning health care. 
Emergency visits went from 
$50 co-pays to $150 co-pays, 
Squirrel said. Im not happy 
about that at all. I think they 
Carnegie Mellon of?cially 
welcomed Subra Suresh as 
the universitys ninth president last Friday. Following a 
campus-wide celebration onThursday, Sureshs investiture 
ceremony was hosted at Carnegie Music Hall.
The event took place on the 
day of the 113th anniversary 
of Andrew Carnegies proposal 
to create what would eventually become Carnegie Mellon 
University.
Suresh has of?cially been 
Carnegie Mellons president since July 1. Previously, 
Suresh was director of the 
National Science Foundation 
from 201013. Before that, he 
was the dean and Vannevar 
Bush professor of engineering 
at the Massachusetts Institute 
of Technology (MIT).
In Sureshs speech, he compared his own journey as an 
immigrant to Andrew Carnegies. In 1838, a 13-year-old 
boy and his family left their 
home in Scotland, crossing 
boundaries  and a very 
large ocean  to settle in the 
North of Pittsburgh. That journey transformed his life, and 
the lives of countless others 
around the world.
Suresh, like Carnegie, 
made the journey to the United 
States to make an impact. Im 
here because of the vision and 
courage of a mother who herself was not lucky enough to go 
beyond high school. Still, she 
encouraged me to cross many 
boundaries, knowing all the 
risks and personal sacri?ces 
she would have to endure, 
and knowing full well that my 
journey would transform my 
life and hers forever, Suresh 
said.
36 years ago, I crossed 
many national boundaries  
and several large oceans  
with a partially ?lled suitcase, 
less than $100 in my pocket, 
and a one-way airline ticket, 
purchased with a loan, to begin a new life that would eventually bring me here, Suresh 
said, describing his journey as 
an immigrant to America.
Sureshs comparison to 
Andrew Carnegie resonated 
with students. I liked that he 
compared himself to Andrew 
Carnegie as an immigrant, 
said Julia Eddy, a sophomore 
electrical and computer engineering major.
Other students were inspired as soon as they heard 
the characteristic sound of 
the Carnegie Pipes and Drums 
open the ceremony.
It was exciting; every 
time I come to these events I 
always get really emotional, 
just proud to be at this school. 
I hear the bagpipes and I start 
tearing up, like wow, this is so 
great,  said Siriana Abboud, 
a sophomore French and psychology double major.
The Carnegie Pipes and 
Drums were followed by the 
national anthem and a special 
performance by Carnegie Mellon alumna Patina Miller (CFA 
06). 
Miller, who is currently the 
star of the Broadway revival 
of Pippin and slated to be in  
The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 1 and Part 2, sang 
Stephen Schwartzs (CFA 68) 
Corner of the Sky.
Raymond Lane, chairman 
of the Carnegie Mellon Board 
of Trustees, welcomed the 
packed music hall and hosted 
much of the ceremony.
The investiture included 
remarks and speeches from 
many prominent Carnegie 
Mellon staff members and 
alumni, including Carnegie 
Mellons longest-serving active faculty member, Allan 
Meltzer, the Allan H. Meltzer 
university professor of political economy.
Meltzer has served on 
Carnegie Mellons staff for 57 
years, and has been here for 
?ve of the eight presidents before Suresh.
Carnegie Mellon succeeded in moving from a good regional school to a major worldclass university, Meltzer said. 
Let me assure you, that is an 
extremely rare achievement. 
Leland Stanford University 
comes to mind as another example, but theyve had the 
bene?t of oodles of substantial 
thetartan.org
@thetartan
November 18, 2013
Volume 108, Issue 12
Investiture ceremony ushers in Suresh as ninth president
See INAUGURATION, A3
Michelle Wan/Staff Photographer
President Suresh spoke during the investiture ceremony, which took place in Carnegie Music Hall last Friday.  
Lack of sleep hurts student health
BRENT HEARD
Senior Staffwriter
Almost every Carnegie 
Mellon student struggles with 
sleep.
However, in general, most 
university students have a 
reputation of being particularly sleep deprived, often 
complaining about their relative tiredness and comparing 
all-nighters. A 2009 study 
published in the Journal of 
Adolescent Health found that 
more than 60 percent of college students demonstrate 
disturbed sleep-wake patterns 
and 20 percent reported pulling an all-nighter at least once 
per month. The Tartan conducted a survey to determine 
the true amount of sleep that 
students were receiving, and 
their perceptions of the effects 
sleep has on their academic 
performance, as well as physical and mental well-being.
In order to get a sense of 
college students sleep habits, 
as well as its perceived and 
actual effects, The Tartan created and distributed an online survey. There were 102 
respondents, all of whom had 
registered college email addresses, and 54 of whom attended Carnegie Mellon.
Fifty-one percent of respondents reported sleeping 
between ?ve and six hours on 
weeknights (de?ned as SunWest Wing housing displaced by CPDC
ALVIN MATHEW 
Staffwriter
The university has drafted 
plans to move the Career and 
Professional Development 
Center (CPDC), currently in 
the basement of the University Center, to West Wing. The 
change has sparked strong reactions among students.
Gina Casalegno, dean of 
Student Affairs, said that 
space played a major factor 
in the decision. The current 
CPDC footprint in the lower 
level of the University Center 
is unable to accommodate 
the growing demand from 
employers who want to come 
to campus to recruit top CMU 
talent, she said. A move 
to the second ?oor of West 
Wing allows us to maintain a 
strong on-campus recruiting 
program in the central location of the UC while maintaining space to support our 
one-to-one engagement with 
students as they explore their 
career development.
Casalegno explained that 
the new expansion to the 
career center will allow students and organizations to 
use the space when not occupied for recruiting purposes. 
While the current CPDC 
footprint will be dedicated to 
employer engagement with 
students by day, this expansion allows for us to explore 
a ?ipped-space model where 
we can open the center in the 
evenings and on weekends to 
student organizations, studygroup sessions and other opportunities to support the 
student experience.
The move comes with support from student government. Last year when I proposed to student government 
the possibility of creating a 
win-win scenario for students 
in recon?guring these spaces, 
they were very supportive 
of this expanded set of opportunities to serve student 
needs, Casalegno said.
Nevertheless, many students are disappointed that 
potential rooms will be eliminated from the highly soughtafter West Wing space. Others are concerned that they 
will no longer be able to retain their West Wing rooms 
when the career center is of?cially moved to the space.
Sophomore design major 
Solomon Ng, a resident of 
West Wing, said, I think its 
nice that theyre trying to expand this facility that CMU 
has to offer, but I think there 
are so many other places they 
can do it. Not a residential 
area, because this is a place 
where students live and call 
home. So when you displace 
a large number of students, 
where could they stay that 
would be more convenient 
than West Wing or Resnik?
Unless they are planning 
Anne-Sophie Kim/Layout Staff
See SLEEP, A3
See CONTRACT, A3
Sara Remi Fields/Staff Photographer
The Career Center will expand into the second ?oor of West Wing. 
CulinArt employees agree on new contract
See CAREER, A3
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
News Co-Editor

---------------------------------------------------

A2  thetartan.org/news The Tartan  November 18, 2013
Michelle Wan/Staff Photographer
Dennis Trumble (top, bottom left), author of The Way of Science, spoke as part of the Carl Sagan Fest, which included apple pie, pizza, stargazing, and a documentary screening. Andy Norman (bottom right), adjunct professor of philosophy, also spoke at the event as part of the American 
Humanist Association, which hosted the event. 
Corrections & Clari?cations
If you would like to submit a correction or clari?cation, 
please email The Tartan at news@thetartan.org or 
editor@thetartan.org with your inquiry, as well as the 
date of the issue and the name of the article. We will 
print the correction or clari?cation in the next print 
issue and publish it online.
NEWS IN BRIEFCarl Sagan Fest celebrates astrophysicist
WEATHER
Campus Crime & Incident Reports
Source: www.weather.com
FEATURE PHOTO
STUDENT SENATE MEETING MINUTES
FRIDAY
High / Low
48 / 41
SATURDAY
High / Low
44 / 34
SUNDAY
High / Low
39 / 31
TUESDAY
High / Low
43 / 30
WEDNESDAY
High / Low
50 / 34
THURSDAY
High / Low
50 / 39
Compiled by
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
Compiled by
NOL UM
Andrew Schwartz, ?nance 
committee chair and junior 
information systems major, 
met with Lieutenant Joseph 
Meyers of the Carnegie Mellon University Police last Friday to discuss changes to the 
Carnegie Mellon shuttle system website and mobile application.
Senate is looking for a 
venue for its annual Christmas party; volunteers are 
asked to contact Wyatt 
DEmilia, senior psychology 
major and chair of the Internal Development Committee.
Health Services is seeking student feedback to 
help make changes to its 
health insurance guidelines.
Points of Discussion
There were vacancy elections for two empty Senate 
seats in the School of Computer Science and one in Dietrich College. Gail Wil son, 
sophomore computer science 
major, and Aaron Gutierrez, 
?rst-year computer science 
major, ran for the seats. Both 
Wilson and Gutierrez were 
elected as Senators.
Steven Wang, sophomore 
decision science major; Brad 
Wyatt, sophomore international relations and politics 
major; and Vaasavi Unnava, 
?rst-year economics major, 
ran for the Dietrich College 
seat. Wang was elected as 
Senator. Wangs speech was 
focused on a desire to improve 
Carnegie Mellon campus 
life by listening to students 
concerns. 
Vacancy ElectionsAnnouncements
Carnegie Mellon trustee 
and founder of Appaloosa 
Management David Tepper 
(GSIA 82) donated a gift 
of $67 million to Carnegie 
Mellons Tepper School of 
Business. Teppers generous 
donation, in combination 
with his original gift, which 
he pledged nine years ago, 
totals to over $125 million.
Teppers gift will go directly toward the creation 
of the David A. Tepper 
Quadrangle, which will be 
located north of Forbes Avenue and stretching into 
Oakland. The Tepper Quadrangle will include a new, 
300,000-square-foot building for the Tepper School 
of Business as well as a new 
welcome center.
According to President 
Suresh in an email to the 
Carnegie Mellon community, the Quad will be a new 
university gateway and interactive hub that will further enhance and strengthen 
collaboration among all of 
Carnegie Mellons schools 
and colleges. The university 
hopes to encourage more interdisciplinary collaboration 
through the construction of 
this new Tepper building, 
which they hope will integrate the rich heritage of innovation, collaboration, and 
entrepreneurship from all 
parts of CMU through the 
creation of new integrated 
degree programs.
The 15th of November 
marks the 113th Anniversary 
of the proposal made by Andrew Carnegie in 1900 to the 
Mayor of Pittsburgh to create a new school that is now 
known all over the world as 
Carnegie Mellon University, 
Suresh wrote. As you may 
know, this weeks presidential inauguration will take 
place at the Carnegie Music 
Hall, which is just across the 
street from where Andrew 
Carnegie announced his gift 
to create our university. One 
hundred and thirteen years 
later exactly, on Nov. 15, 
another extraordinary philanthropist of our era, David 
Tepper, is having a profound 
impact on Carnegie Mellon 
by demonstrating his loyalty to his home institution 
through this new gift.
On behalf of the CMU 
community, I wish to express my profound gratitude 
to David for his remarkable 
demonstration of generosity and for his belief in the 
growing potential of CMU, 
he continued.
Carnegie Mellon tied 
everything together for me 
and gave me a great foundation, Tepper said in an 
interview with The New York 
Times. My earlier gifts were 
a payback to the university, 
and this is a continuation of 
that.
David Tepper donates gift of $67 million to CMU
Alcohol Amnesty
November 9, 2013
University Police and CMU 
EMS responded to Beeler 
Street and Olympia Place in 
response to an intoxicated student. The student, who had 
been drinking on Wilkins Avenue, was taken to a hospital 
by city medics. University Police later responded to Webster Hall with CMU EMS and 
city medics, where another 
male was taken to a hospital. 
University Police and CMU 
EMS, along with city medics, 
also handled a medical incident at 1057 Morewood Ave. 
involving an intoxicated male. 
All of these incidents met the 
criteria for Alcohol Amnesty.
Bicycle Theft 
November 11, 2013
University Police were 
summoned to Woodlawn 
Apartments in response to a 
theft report. The student stated that her bicycle, which was 
secured using a cable lock to a 
city of Pittsburgh No Parking 
sign, was removed from the 
sign. The victim stated that 
she secured the bicycle at 10 
p.m. on Nov. 10 and realized 
her bicycle was gone on Nov. 
11 at midnight. University Police determined that the Pittsburgh Police did not remove 
the bicycle, since other bicycles were secured to nearby 
signs. Reminder: Please use 
designated bike racks to secure bicycles.
Purse Theft
November 11, 2013
University Police were 
summoned to 311 South Craig 
Street in reference to the theft 
of a staff members purse from 
her desk drawer. The female 
believes that someone stole 
her purse from her desk drawer between 10 a.m. and 11 a.m. 
This investigation is ongoing.
Underage Drinking
November 14, 2013
University Police were 
dispatched to reports of a 
female struggling to walk 
at the intersection of Forbes 
and Morewood Avenues. University Police discovered the 
female was underage and intoxicated. CMU EMS and city 
medics were summoned to the 
scene to render medical aid. 
The female was taken to a and 
cited for underage drinking.
Kitchen Fire 
November 14, 2013
University Police, along 
with the Pittsburgh Bureau of 
Fire, responded to the second 
?oor of the University Center 
in response to a small kitchen 
?re. The ?re was put out by 
several employees using ?re 
extinguishers. The cause of 
the ?re was con?rmed to be a 
kitchen dishwasher.
Committee Update: Internal Affairs, Campus Life
The Internal Affairs Committee is currently working 
on creating a Senate Wiki. Although the website is up and 
running, it lacks signi?cant 
content.
The Campus Life Committee reiterated that it is hosting 
a gallery crawl this Saturday. 
The Gallery Crawl will visit  
venues such as the Mattress 
Factory, Andy Warhol Museum, and the National Aviary. 
Buses will be leaving periodically throughout the day from 
11 a.m.5 p.m. on Saturday. 
Campus Life is also working 
on designs for Senate T-shirts 
and other materials for sale.
The committee plans to put up 
a Christmas tree somewhere 
on campus, as well as hand out 
holiday cookies.

---------------------------------------------------

November 18, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/news  A3


---------------------------------------------------

A4  thetartan.org/scitech The Tartan  November 18, 2013
Electric cars may become new norm
CLAIRE GIANAKAS
Staffwriter
Energy  particularly renewable energy  plays a 
large factor in many aspects 
of todays society and has 
increased public interest in 
energy-conserving products 
such as electric vehicles (EVs). 
However, despite the increase 
in EV usage, recent ?ndings by 
Carnegie Mellon researchers 
suggest that the large-scale 
success of EVs is limited by a 
lack of residential parking.
Elizabeth J. Traut, a mechanical engineering doctoral student; Tsu-Wei Charlie 
Cherng, who recently received 
his masters degree in mechanical engineering; Chris 
Hendrickson, a civil and environmental engineering professor; and Jeremy J. Michalek, 
a professor of mechanical engineering and public policy, 
examined the availability of 
parking and charging for EVs 
in the United States.
The term EV encompasses 
plug-in hybrid electric vehicles (PHEVs), which run 
on gasoline and electricity, 
and battery electric vehicles 
(BEVs), which run solely on 
electricity. Currently, EV sales 
make up less than 0.6 percent 
of total car sales.
There are a number of 
reasons why theres interest 
in EVs, Hendrickson said. 
First, there are the energy security issues. Most motor vehicles run off of petroleum, and 
there are issues with supply 
security and imports. Second, 
if we move toward renewable 
power and the power grid 
system, then we can reduce 
greenhouse gas emissions.
Hendrickson explained 
that their research stemmed 
from the idea that most 
people would only buy EVs 
if they could charge their 
EV at home. The goal of the 
research was to look at the 
availability of charging at 
home for EVs from a vehicle 
perspective instead of a housing perspective. Previous 
research on charging availability was based on whether 
a household had a potential 
spot where an EV could be 
charged. This research determined that approximately 50 
percent of households had a 
designated parking spot.
We were interested in 
looking at it from the vehicle 
perspective, Hendrickson 
said. It turns out that those 
residences that have a dedicated parking spot often have 
multiple vehicles and only 
have one parking spot.
Ultimately, through the 
combination of data from the 
Residential Energy Consumption Survey and the American 
Housing Survey, the researchers found that approximately 
25 percent of vehicles have 
access to reasonable home 
charging. This is good news 
and bad news, Hendrickson 
explained. Its good news because people can buy EVs up 
to that 25 percent level. Its 
bad news because after that 
25 percent level owners of 
EVs are going to have to make 
changes to ensure that parking is available.
Some recent predictions 
for EV adoption suggest that 
the number of EV owners will 
greatly increase in the near 
future. The Electric Power 
Research Institute (EPRI) 
claims that PHEV sales could 
be as high as 80 percent by 
2050. The research on parking and charging availability, 
however, says that parking 
infrastructure will have to be 
developed in order for EVs to 
cross the 25 percent level.
The research also touched 
upon the implications of parking and charging availability in urban areas compared 
to rural areas. It was found 
that charging availability was 
lower in urban areas than in 
rural areas, meaning that the 
challenges of EV adoption 
will be more severe in urban 
locations. The study also concludes that public charging 
infrastructure, although not 
easily instigated, will be necessary if EVs are to be adopted 
in urban areas.
Despite promising results, 
Hendrickson admits that 
there are still many factors 
that the research did not take 
into account. The numbers 
are inde?nite for a number 
of reasons, Hendrickson 
said. There are rental properties where owners might 
not permit charging stations 
and rental properties where 
you have common garages 
with electricity paid for by the 
owner.
Hendrickson also explains 
that many households have 
garages full of belongings 
other than cars. These garages 
were considered viable charging options in the research, 
even though in reality they 
are not. Finally, Hendrickson 
mentions the issue of safety.
Its more attractive to 
charge an EV in a garage 
where you are protected from 
the rain and everything else 
and there are no safety issues, 
than sitting the EV in a driveway to charge, he said.
Renewable energy and EVs 
are crucial for a future with 
better energy security and a 
cleaner environment. This 
research has provided information on the obstacles that 
must be overcome in order to 
better incorporate EVs into 
modern society.
Lecturers discuss future of energy and climate change
JENNIFER GOLDA
Staffwriter
Climate and energy experts 
from across the country gathered to participate in a symposium last Friday in McConomy Auditorium. The panel 
discussed Opportunities and 
Challenges in Energy and 
Climate as part of the weeklong celebration for the inauguration of President Subra 
Suresh.
The conversation included 
thoughts from John Holdren 
from the White House Of?ce 
of Science and Technology 
Policy and Science magazine 
editor-in-chief Marcia McNutt. 
Representing Carnegie Mellon research and perspective 
was  Peter Adams, a civil engineering and engineering and 
public policy professor; Ins 
Lima Azevedo, an engineering and public policy assistant 
professor and co-principal investigator and co-director of 
the Climate and Energy Decision Making Center; Erica Cochran, assistant professor in 
the school of architecture and 
UDream program coordinator 
and Carnegie Mellon Ph.D. 
candidate; and Khee Poh Lam, 
a professor in the school of 
architecture. The discussion 
began after opening remarks 
by President Suresh and was 
moderated by Raymond J. 
Lane, a life trustee and chairman of Carnegie Mellons 
Board of Trustees.
Topics included President 
Obamas Climate Action Plan 
and the need for national policy to consider both mitigation 
and adaptation in its strategy, 
as well as the use of adopting 
renewable energies to satisfy 
the global energy demand. 
The panelists from Carnegie 
Mellon presented research 
on many areas of climate and 
energy problems: the effects 
of different types of air pollution on atmospheric cooling 
and heating; decision making 
and the implications of policy 
goals in determining the best 
location for renewable energy 
installations; an investigation 
of energy use in urban schools 
and its impact on education; 
and new efforts in Chinese urban planning to create greener 
cities.
Each topic demonstrated 
an aspect of the Inaugurations 
theme Crossing Boundaries, 
Transforming Lives, which 
aims to make people consider 
how crossing geographic, 
disciplinary and technological boundaries will accelerate 
innovation in education and 
research to help address the 
worlds most pressing challenges, according to the inauguration website. This symposium 
addressed one of these challenges  climate change and 
the need for clean energy solutions  and emphasized the 
role that universities can play.
President Suresh expressed 
in his opening remarks that 
Carnegie Mellons ability to 
coordinate policy, technology, 
and education and its location in Pittsburgh  one of the 
United States clean energy 
leaders  provides valuable 
advantages to produce answers to climate change and 
energy. Cochran also mentioned during her presentation that, At Carnegie Mellon, 
not only do we like to come up 
with solutions  we like to 
share them.
The symposium addressed 
that the major problems 
about sharing solutions is not 
the lack of technological innovation, but also the ability 
to bring the solutions to the 
people.
The technology is there, 
but the hard part is the people 
and the policy, McNutt said. 
Thats why I think the program at Carnegie Mellon is so 
valuable because it addresses 
issues like that. Not only do 
they pursue technology solutions, but the Scott Institute 
for Energy Innovation and 
Steinbrenner Institute for Environmental Education and 
Research here at CMU also 
strives to provide resolutions 
for technology policy.
Tackling the climate change 
and renewable energy challenge is not just an administrative goal  students are 
interested as well. A graduate 
student poster session outside 
the symposium demonstrated 
an array of research on the 
topic. 
Michael Oden, a sophomore in civil and environmental engineering who attended 
the symposium, said he was 
attracted to the talks because 
of his passion for the topic and 
his interest in the universitys 
future plans.
I dont think that theyre 
doing too much right now, but 
theyre trying to. Like they are 
building the new Scott Hall, 
he said. "I think we have the 
deparments to do it."
Scott Hall, cited by President Suresh in his opening 
remarks as another key advantage in Carnegie Mellons 
energy strategy, will be the 
newest academic building on 
campus and will house the 
Scott Institute for Energy Innovation. According to its 
website, the Scott Institute 
aims to establish an interdisciplinary center for creating 
innovations in energy technologies, regulations, and 
policies. More importantly, 
the new building may also 
give university energy efforts a 
much-needed visible presence 
on campus.
Courtesy of Carnegie Mellon
Engineers recently assessed the possibility of widespread usage of electronic vehicles in America.
Peter Lee/Staff Photographer
Erica Cochran, an assistant professor in the school of architecture, talks about the role of buildings in climate change and energy consumption.
Prosthetics model limb movement
Researchers at Vanderbilt 
University have made it possible to develop lower limb 
prosthetics that can duplicate 
the natural movement of human legs. The leg is made of 
lightweight materials, such 
as lithium ion batteries, 
low-power computer chips, 
miniaturized sensors, and 
electric motors with rareearth magnets. The motors 
function as muscles and the 
sensors function as nerves. 
At present, researchers are 
focusing on developing some 
way of connecting the device 
to the users central nervous 
system, so the device can 
identify the users intent to 
change movements. Methods being examined include 
implanting electrodes into a 
patients peripheral nerves 
or brain. These  devices will 
enable users to  exert less hip 
effort, decreasing the risk of 
falling.
Source: The New York Times
IBM's Watson available on web
Two years ago, Watson, 
one of IBMs most powerful 
supercomputers, showcased 
its ability to beat any human 
on the game show Jeopardy!. 
This week, IBM announced 
that Watson will be available through the Internet in 
a twice-as-powerful form. 
Companies, academic institutions, and individual software 
developers will be able to use 
the system at a fraction of the 
cost, and draw on its specialties to develop arti?cial intelligence machines. IBM's move 
is part of a rising trend of 
large corporations moving to 
make powerful, million-dollar 
systems as accessible as any 
common application. Experts 
agree that this trend marks 
a technological milestone, 
both in the way humans and 
machines interact and in the 
level of technology available 
to the people.
Source: The New York Times
Music lessons may  improve cognition
According to a study 
conducted at Northwestern 
University, music lessons 
can lead to better cognitive 
processing, with effects that 
can last long after the musical training ends. The study 
examined 44 adults aged 55
76. Researchers monitored 
electrical activity in the part 
of the brain that processes 
sound and found that participants with 414 years of musical training had relatively 
faster responses to speech. 
None of the participants with 
musical training had played 
an instrument for more than 
14 years. According to the researchers, these results highlight the necessity of music 
education for todays youth.
Source: The New York Times
NASA releases photos of Saturn
On Tuesday, NASA released a photograph of Saturn and the entire inner solar 
system taken by the Cassini 
Spacecraft. The photo was 
taken on July 19, and shows 
Saturn and the 405,000 
miles surrounding it. It was 
assembled from 141 wideangled images captured over 
the course of four hours. Perhaps one of the most striking 
features of the photograph 
was Enceladus, Saturns sixth 
largest moon. This moon was 
seen emitting sprays of mist, 
which astronomers believe 
may contain the best evidence, in our solar system, of 
life beyond our planet.
Source: The New York Times
Compiled By
SONIA KATHARANI-KHAN
SCITECH BRIEFS

---------------------------------------------------

November 18, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/scitech  A5
Your Library-Your Voice Impact | fall 2013*
You said ... We did.
The library should be open all weekend, 24/7.
Hunt Library will introduce 24/7 hours on a
trial basis from Dec 1 through spring finals.
  
More access to more journals.
EfEffective Nov 15, the library has licensed online
access to 2954 additional top quality journals.
  
VPN is very unreliable.
Coming soon! EZproxy access to journals
and databases for off campus CMU users.
  
Install ChInstall Chrome on computers. Pleeeeeeeeeeaz!
All library-managed computers now have Chrome.
  
Offer healthier options at Maggie Murph Cafe.
We shared your comments with CulinArt.  They
are reviewing selections and adding new choices.
  
Redo the Redo the website. This would be my #1 priority.
The library will launch a new website in early 2014.
Meanwhile, have you tried the BrowZine tablet app
to access scholarly journals across disciplines?
  
*details at search.library.cmu.edu 
  
HHave more to say? Watch for the
LibQUAL+Lite Survey | spring 2014
  
BROOKE KUEI
Assistant SciTech Editor
Have you ever looked up 
at the sky and thought that 
a passing cloud looked like a 
spaceship or a cat, or maybe 
even a knight riding a horse 
off into battle? Often, inkblots 
have the same effect. Carnegie Mellon computer science 
graduate student Jeremiah 
Blocki and his advisors Manuel Blum, the Bruce Nelson 
professor of computer science, 
and Anupam Datta, associate professor in the computer 
science and electrical and 
computer engineering departments, have developed a new 
password security system that 
uses inkblots as a second line 
of defense to prevent hackers 
from discovering lists of passwords.
This password system is 
creatively named GOTCHA, 
which stands for Generating panOptic Turing Tests to 
Tell Computers and Humans 
Apart. The key word to focus 
on here is panoptic,  Blocki 
said. Panopticon refers to 
this speci?c architectural 
structure. You could think of 
a prison, for example, where 
the guards want to be able 
to monitor all of the prisoners without walking around. 
The basic architectural layout 
is this curved prison with the 
guard in the center, where he 
can look into any of the prison 
cells at any time. Basically, 
panoptic refers to a world 
without privacy.
The basics of password security is that when an individual creates a username and a 
password, the server will store 
that username along with 
a cryptographic hash of the 
password. When the user signs 
on at a later time and types in 
his or her password, the server 
will check if the hash of the 
given password matches the 
saved hash.
The problem is that this 
system proves unsafe in a situation where a hacker has already breached the server and 
can see the saved hashes of the 
passwords. The thing about 
the hash function is that if an 
adversary guesses your password, then its very easy to 
compute the hash and match 
against whats on the ?le. So 
it is very easy to verify guesses, Datta said. Unfortunately, 
many people pick very simple 
passwords, such as 12345, 
which has led to entire lists of 
passwords at companies such 
as Sony, Gawker, LinkedIn, 
Zappos, and Adobe to be compromised.
GOTCHA works differently. When a user creates an 
account, after they give their 
username and password to the 
server, it will give the user 10 
randomly generated inkblots. 
The user must then assign labels to each of these inkblots, 
describing the pictures that 
they make with phrases such 
as evil clown or a smiling 
Ms. Frizzle.
What the server now 
stores, Blocki explained, is 
not just the hash of the password, but the hash of the 
password with a permutation 
appended to it. Each time the 
user wants to sign in now, he 
must enter the username and 
password and then successfully match the inkblots to their 
descriptions. 
So lets say that the user 
has 10 inkblots. Then there 
are 10 factorial ways to match 
these labels to the inkblots. 
Now, an adversary that wants 
to use a brute force attack 
must simultaneously guess the 
password and the permutation. So essentially what were 
doing here is were expanding 
the amount of effort that an 
adversary needs to use to attack a password by a factor of 
about 3.5 million, Blocki said.
Another key point that 
makes GOTCHA so effective 
is that in order to match inkblots to their correct labels, 
an adversary would have to 
have a humans help, which is 
more expensive than having 
a computer continuously try 
guesses.
To test if users could reliably remember their inkblot 
descriptions, 70 people were 
hired through Mechanical 
Turk, a crowdsourcing Internet marketplace that uses human intelligence to complete 
tasks, and were asked to describe 10 inkblots with interesting labels. Ten days later, 
they were asked to match 
these labels with the inkblots. 
The study showed that of the 
58 individuals who participated in the second part, onethird matched all of their inkblots correctly and more than 
two-thirds got half right.
Blocki stated that a similar 
study would probably be conducted again with adjusted 
?nancial incentives to garner 
more accurate data. The study 
also suggested that instead of 
requiring that all 10 labels be 
matched successfully, an approximate matching should 
also be accepted. 
Another change to the 
GOTCHA system that may be 
implemented would allow the 
user to ask for a new inkblot 
picture when creating a password. This way, the inkblots 
that dont resonate with users 
can be discarded so that they 
can use more memorable inkblots.
The developers of GOTCHA invite members of the 
Carnegie Mellon community 
to attempt to breach their new 
password system in the GOTCHA Challenge, which can be 
found online. Any arti?cial intelligence technique that can 
break their system would have 
to be truly remarkable, because as simple as describing 
random inkblots may seem, it 
has opened the doors to a new 
era of password security.
Researchers use inkblots to make safer passwords
ARIEL HOFFMAIER
Staffwriter
DESIREE XU
Business Manager
It is conventional to imagine a war consisting of battle?elds laden with explosives, 
?rearms, and missiles. More 
recently, however, terrorists 
and offensive armies have 
turned to chemical terrorism, 
as evidenced by the attacks in 
Syria this past summer. How 
do these terroristic agents affect the body?
Chemical terrorism is a 
method of attack that involves the intentional release 
of manufactured, extremely 
potent toxic chemicals. The 
most effective modern chemical weapons rely on agents 
with high killing power  
those that can exterminate 
the largest population with 
minimal chemical concentration. Oddly enough, there is 
a large overlap between the 
chemicals used in warfare 
and in insecticides.
It is common to picture 
chemical weapons on a large, 
extravagant scale, such as 
the bomb in an action movie 
that discharges devastating 
chemicals above an unsuspecting metropolis. But as 
early as 1995, something as 
inconspicuous as an exploding canister has been used as 
a toxic gas release. That year, 
Aum Shinrikyo  a religious 
terrorist group in Japan  
used a small, explosive canister to release sarin gas in the 
Tokyo subway, killing 13 and 
wounding thousands. Thus, 
even without the presence 
of nuclear bombs or similar 
explosive devices, chemical 
agents should be considered 
weapons of mass destruction.
From least to most aggressive, the most typically 
dreaded chemcial agents are 
sarin, cyclosarin, soman, VX, 
and novichoks, according to 
howstuffworks.com.
Sarin is a nerve agent that 
inhibits the cholinesterase enzyme, which nerve cells use 
to break down acetylcholine. 
Acetylcholine communicates 
between nerve cells and tells 
muscles to contract. Muscles 
lacking cholinesterase cannot clear the acetylcholine 
messengers, so they begin to 
contract uncontrollably. This 
eventually leads to death by 
suffocation, since the muscular diaphragm is incapacitated. With an acting time of ?ve 
to 12 hours, sarin works fairly 
quickly and is relatively easy 
to manufacture.
Cyclosarin is also a nerve 
agent, working identically to 
sarin with double the toxicity. 
For example, if a person was 
stuck in a cubic-meter-large 
closet containing a mere 35 
milligrams of airborne cyclosarin, they would be killed 
within one minute.
Soman, also similar to sarin, acts even faster. Depending on the dosage, which is 
nearly as toxic as cyclosarin, 
soman kills in a time between 
40 seconds and 10 minutes.
VX operates identically to 
sarin and is 10 times more 
potent  just 10 milligrams 
exposure to the skin can kill 
a person. The primary difference between them is that VX 
is a liquid, whereas sarin is 
gaseous.
Novichoks are toxic nerve 
agents manufactured from 
the mixture of two otherwise 
ordinary chemicals. At least 
three novichoks existed as of 
1990, but the extent to which 
the quantity has changed 
since then is largely unknown. Every novichok agent 
is more lethal than VX by up 
to 10 times. Novichoks are 
especially dangerous because 
their inner workings are not 
well understood, which may 
render current antidotes useless.
Chemical agents that do 
not attack the nerves can have 
less extreme effects. For example, if an offender were to use 
blistering agents like mustard 
gas, victims may suffer blistered skin and destroyed lung 
tissue but would risk death 
less than with nerve agents.
Chemical weapons are 
more intimidating than traditional weapons, since soldiers 
and civilians have a more dif?cult time protecting themselves. When chemical attack 
is judged a possibility on the 
battle?eld, soldiers guard 
themselves with gas masks 
and total skin coverings. 
However, chemical attacks 
can come without warning, 
and civilians can be left vulnerable to the devastation. 
Due to their catastrophic effects, chemical weapons were 
prohibited by the Geneva 
Convention of 1925. Still, 
trespasses of the provision 
continue to be a major threat 
around the world.
HOW THINGS WORKHow chemical agents wreak havoc in biological systems
Peter Lee/Staff Photographer
Jeremiah Blocki is working on a project that uses inkblots to make passwords more secure.
Peter Lee/Staff Photographer
Anupam Datta, one of Blocki's advisors, explains how inkblots can improve password security.
Courtesy of Carnegie Mellon
An example of the inkblots used in the study.

---------------------------------------------------

A6  thetartan.org/scitech The Tartan  November 18, 2013
music.cmu.edu
Free with a CMU ID at the door.
Thursday, December 5, 8pm
Carnegie Music Hall, Oakland
CARNEGIE 
MELLON
SCHOOL 
OF MUSIC
  201314 CONCERT SERIES
Annual Holiday Concert    
 with the
Philharmonic & Choirs  
 Maria Sensi Sellner, conductor
ROHAN VARMA
Staffwriter
In the last year, Carnegie 
Mellon University professors 
and students have launched 
a record 36 startup companies, according to a Carnegie 
Mellon press release. Looking 
strictly at the ratio between 
the number of startups created and the amount of federal 
research money provided, dollar for dollar, Carnegie Mellon 
University has spun off more 
startups than any other university in the country. Putting 
it best, Carnegie Mellon University President Subra Suresh 
said, This is literally bang for 
the buck.
Last week these innovations were presented at 
LaunchCMU, a showcase of 
the universitys research and 
entrepreneurial feats hosted 
by the Carnegie Mellon Center 
for Innovation and Entrepreneurship.
The Marauders Map
Our main goal is to make 
the Marauders Map from Harry Potter a reality.
This is how Shoou-I Yu, a Ph.D. student at Carnegie 
Mellons Informedia Lab, described the overarching goals 
of his startup company.
The product is currently 
fully functional and being 
tested in a nursing home. It 
utilizes data provided by almost 25 cameras around the 
nursing home to identify who 
each speci?c person is and 
track their location as they 
walk around the map.
Perhaps the most interesting aspect about this company 
is that the map provides information back to the user exactly the way that J.K. Rowling 
envisioned it when she invented the idea of the Marauders 
Map.
We believe that our product can be especially impactful 
in long-term health care, Yu 
said. In nursing homes like 
the one where we are testing, 
doctors can only come once or 
twice a week so there isnt anyone to observe patients health. 
These automated technologies 
can monitor the patients and 
provide a diagnosis. For example, we can say whether someone sat in the dining room and 
talked during dinner time or 
slept through it instead.
While the tangible impact 
that this company will have 
on health care is clear, Yu envisions that there will be uses 
in the commercial industry 
as well. We can have this in 
supermarkets as well. When 
you swipe your card, you give 
your identity at the cashier 
and we could backtrack to see 
how you walked around the 
store. This would give useful 
information on your shopping 
habits and inform the store on 
how to best place their products around the store, he said.
Admittedly, Yu said, I 
know there are some big privacy issues for that idea but it 
just sounds cool.
And cool may be an 
apt word to describe Yus research. In addition to the bene?ts that it can provide to the 
real world, the fact that they 
were able to recreate a fantasy 
from the world of Harry Potter 
is an amazing feat on its own.
Smart Headlights
Another company, sprouting from the Illumination and 
Imaging Lab, is developing 
headlights that will be able to 
observe the world around the 
car and direct its beams accordingly.
Robert Tamburo, a Carnegie 
Mellon project scientist and a 
member of the group responsible for this product, explained 
that the headlights focus the 
lights in front of the car so that 
some of the usual inhibitors to 
vision will be removed.
For instance, if there is an 
oncoming car, the headlight 
will identify the vehicle and 
not shine a light at the car. 
What this means is that both 
cars will not get the dangerous 
glare created from headlights.
Tamburo said, Theoretically, with our product you 
could drive around with your 
high beams on and not mess 
anything up.
On a much smaller and 
more intriguing scale, the 
headlights will be able to 
sense the location of falling 
raindrops and only shine light 
between them. This incredible 
capability allows the driver to 
have close to 100 percent vision while driving in the rain, 
as if it werent raining in the 
?rst place.
The headlights are programmed through a computer 
chip created by the company, 
and Tamburo said that as 
long as people know how to 
program the chip, they can 
provide speci?cations for the 
lights themselves. He jokingly 
said you could even program 
the car to speci?cally shine 
light on all birds that ?y by.
Tamburo believes the 
product will easily permeate 
the market because most cars 
on the road already have the 
ability to implement these 
headlights. Its only a matter 
of time before even our headlights will become smart.
The list of impressive 
technologies developed and 
commercialized at Carnegie 
Mellon University goes on. 
From EEme, a company that 
crunches data to identify ways 
to maximize energy ef?ciency 
in homes, to Cloud Board, a 
childrens game that brings 
video games into real life and 
helps develop scienti?c knowledge, professors and students 
at Carnegie Mellon continue 
to push the boundaries of how 
technology can help solve 
problems.
LaunchCMU showcases work of start-up companies
GEORGE LEDERMAN
Junior Staffwriter
While the Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology, Stanford University, and Harvard 
University have received 
huge publicity for their Massive Open Online Courses 
(MOOCs), Carnegie Mellon 
has been quietly developing its 
own set of technological learning tools which were on display Thursday in conjunction 
with the launch of President 
Sureshs Simon Initiative.
Carnegie Mellons strength 
in both technology and in understanding learning begs the 
question  why isnt Carnegie Mellon known for its educational technology?
Perhaps the answer lies in 
Carnegie Mellons rich history 
as a center for data analytics 
and machine learning  the 
university has facilitated some 
cautious investigations into 
online learning but has not 
wanted to jump into the fray 
before understanding the data.
Now armed with research, 
Carnegie Mellon has begun to 
integrate new technology into 
its for-credit classes. Professor Jelena Kovacevic, along 
with three other electrical 
and computer engineering 
(ECE) professors, have been 
teaching courses this fall as 
part of the ECE departments 
new Technology-Enhanced 
Hybrid MS program where 
students spend one semester 
off campus and two on campus. Her class, Wavelets and 
Multiresolution Techniques, 
has been offered to both residential and distance students 
by leveraging a learning platform from Acatar, a Carnegie 
Mellon startup.
Kovacevic recorded the 
lectures for her course this 
summer so that she could 
spend class time engaging 
the students in interactive 
activities, responding to students questions, and ensuring they understand the 
material. The notion of the 
?ipped classroom  where 
lectures are watched outside 
of class-time  was popularized recently in conjunction with the Khan Academy 
lectures but remains rare in 
for-credit university courses. 
Thus far, Kovacevics course 
has received overwhelmingly 
positive feedback, which is 
no surprise. Recent studies 
by the Department of Education have shown that blended 
courses, comprised of both 
face-to-face interaction as 
well as online content  including courses where 39-70 
percent of material is online 
 produce better outcomes 
than either fully online experiences or traditional learning 
techniques.
The online courses appear 
to bene?t the faculty as well. 
Kovacevic holds an appointment in biomedical engineering, a courtesy appointment 
in electrical and computer engineering, and is the director 
of the Center for Bio-Image 
Informatics. As a leading expert on wavelets, she travels 
frequently to speak at conferences, runs an active lab on the 
Pittsburgh campus, and physically lives in New York City.
While Kovacevics travel 
schedule may be heavier than 
some professors, that level of 
travel is becoming increasingly popular. It is not unusual 
for a professor to miss several 
lectures per semester due to 
travel  a phenomenon that 
could be mitigated by pre-recorded video lectures.
Since the spring, Kovacevic 
has chaired a committee to 
investigate Technology Enhanced Quality Education on 
behalf of the Carnegie Institute of Technology. She sees 
the potential for online education to engage students and 
make more content available 
to the public, but she does not 
want to take away some of the 
bene?ts of physical learning.
The power of the campus 
is not what we learn, but the 
community we build, said 
Kovacevic. But she believes 
that different levels of technology may be appropriate to 
optimize learning outcomes 
for different circumstances  
depending on factors like the 
student population or faculty 
preferences.
Acatar, the company that 
powers Kovacevics course, 
began last year as a Carnegie 
Mellon startup. It provides 
an easily customizable approach for professors to create 
technology-enhanced courses, 
drawing not only on research 
and expertise from Carnegie 
Mellon, but also on technology 
from Carnegie Mellons ecosystem of startups.
Acatar differs from the 
more popular providers of online content in both purpose 
and level of publicity. Andrew 
Ngs (CS 97) Machine Learning course has become the 
quintessential MOOC with 
more than 100,000 students 
enrolled last term. This course 
is 100 percent online so it can 
scale to huge class sizes and is 
a radical break from previous 
educational models. 
Acatar, conversely, allows 
professors to choose what 
percentage of content to put 
online. This allows for the 
blended model recommended 
by the Department of Education but lacks the cachet of 
some magic educational bullet.
So does technology truly 
improve learning outcomes?
Unfortunately, no one 
really knows, wrote former 
Princeton University President William Bowen in his in?uential article on educational technology published in the 
Chronicle of Higher Education 
earlier this year.
However, this is just the 
question that President 
Sureshs Simon Initiative aims 
to answer. As a core component, the initiative will amass 
high quality data sets on educational technology and share 
them with researchers, policy 
makers, and educators in a 
global setting.
The new initiative will 
continue Carnegie Mellons 
data-driven approach to educational technology. And perhaps by leveraging this data, 
the less well-known attempts 
at technology enhanced education like Kovacevics class or 
Acatars tools will be the educational technology with the 
most lasting impact.
Peter Lee/Staff Photographer
Research presented at LaunchCMU included algorithms that expedite the process of organ exchange.
Peter Lee/Staff Photographer
Provost Mark Kamlet introduces attendees at LaunchCMU.
Online lectures debut at CMU
Our main goal is to make the 
Marauders Map from Harry Potter 
a reality.
Shoou-I Yu
Ph.D. student, Informedia Lab

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan is a student newspaper at Carnegie Mellon University, funded in part by the student 
activities fee. It is a weekly publication by students during the fall and spring semesters, printed by 
Trib Total Media. The Tartan is not an official publication of Carnegie Mellon University.
The Editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The 
Tartan Editorial Board. Columns, Editorial Cartoons, and Reviews are the opinions of their 
individual creators. The Tartan Editorial Staff reserves the right to withhold from publication 
any copy it deems unfit.
Letters to the Editor are the opinions of their authors. Letters from within the University community take precedence. Letters intended for publication must be signed and include the authors 
address and telephone number for verification; letters must not exceed 350 words. Authors names 
may be withheld from publication upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject 
any letter. Letters must be submitted by 5 p.m. on the Wednesday before publication by mail or to 
forum@thetartan.org.
StaffEditorial Board
Office: University Center 314
Phone: (412) 268-2111
Fax: (412) 268-1596
Web: www.thetartan.org
E-mail: contact@thetartan.org
Mail:
The Tartan
Box 119, UC Suite 103 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
 2013 The Tartan, all rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN: 0890-3107
JENNIFER COLOMA *
Publisher
JOSH SMITH *
Editor-in-Chief
BRADEN KELNER 
Forum Editor 
EVAN KAHN *
Copy Manager
JUSTIN MCGOWN
Online Editor
CHLOE THOMPSON
Staffwriter
BRENT HEARD *
Senior Staffwriter
A8  thetartan.org/forum The Tartan  November 18, 2013
FROM THE EDITORIAL BOARD
SENIOR STAFF 
Stephanie Blotner, Carl Glazer, Greg Hanneman
COPY
Lula Beresford-Banker, Francesca Begos, Matt 
Brown, Connie Chan, Nivedita Chopra, Gordon 
Estes, Blaine Greenberg, Ariel Hoffmaier, 
Katherine Huang, Karyn Michela, Satvika Neti, 
Mackenzie Nicholson, Gates Palissery, Taylor 
Rawley, Stephanie Stern
LAYOUT
Adrian Amegashie, Manali Banjeree, Yong 
Gun Choe, Gordon Estes, Sara-Remi Fields, 
Anne-Sophie Kim, Mina Kim, Linging Sun, 
Tanguri Tzuo
ADVERTISING
Alison Chiu, Linda Ju, Anuva Kulkarni, 
Gretchen Tan
KELSEY SCOTT *
Operations Manager
NEL UM
News Co-Editor
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
News Co-Editor
MICHAEL SETZER
SciTech Editor
WILLIAM PARK
Sports Editor
RACHEL COHEN
Pillbox Editor
KAIRAVI CHAHAL
Comics Editor
KATE GROSCHNER
Photo Editor
LAURA SCHERB
Personnel Manager
WILL CRICHTON
Systems Manager
SWATHI ANAND
Layout Manager
JOHN HUO
Advertising Manager
DESIREE XU
Business Manager
BENJAMIN CHANG
Asst. Business Manager
JONATHAN LEUNG
Asst. Photo Editor
HANNAH DELLABELLA
Asst. Copy Manager
JAMES WU
Asst. Copy Manager
JULIA YANG
Asst. Copy Manager
BROOKE KUEI
Asst. SciTech Editor
JOEY PEISER
Asst. Pillbox Editor
JONATHAN CARREON
Contributing Editor
Editorial Staff
* Denotes executive committee member
Junior electrical and computer 
engineering major Ian Glasner recently took on the role of student 
body vice president after former 
student body vice president Peter 
Masters, junior international relations and politics and philosophy 
double major, stepped down from 
the position.
While The Tartan appreciates 
the swift appointment for a vacant 
position, the student body should 
have been given the chance to meet 
Glasner and start a dialogue with 
him when he was nominated, and 
later approved, by Student Senate 
for the position.
Currently, Student Senates bylaws dictate that the student body 
president must nominate a candidate if the student body vice president position becomes vacant. The 
bylaws state that the Student Senate 
must then approve the appointment. 
Student Body President Lindsay 
MacGillivray and Student Senate at 
large did indeed follow these bylaws. However, Student Senate may 
wish to revise the bylaws to include a 
period of time during which the student body may provide its own input 
and ask questions of the nominated 
candidate.
Student Senate has held a variety 
of town hall meetings to reach out 
to the student body previously and 
should have held a similar open forum to allow Glasner to describe his 
goals as student body vice president 
and respond to possible concerns. An 
open forum with Glasner would have 
been a perfect opportunity for him to 
hear, and take into consideration, 
the needs of the student body.
Admittedly, Student Senate has 
taken initiative to identify student 
concerns this semester with the 
launch of the WTF CMU (What to Fix 
at Carnegie Mellon) Facebook page. 
However, an open forum for students 
to ask Glasner questions and voice 
concerns would have provided a level of interaction that WTF CMU and 
similar initiatives cannot provide.
This criticism, however, should 
not re?ect on the quali?cations 
and credentials of Glasner. Glasner 
seems ?t for the role based on his 
previous experience as a member of 
MacGillivrays student government 
cabinet and his involvement in the 
campus community as a community 
advisor, a member of the executive 
committee of Sigma Alpha Epsilon 
Fraternity, and a founding member 
of a student organization dedicated 
to helping those in Haiti.
The Tartan only hopes that the 
student body will be more involved 
in the process of appointed positions 
within Student Senate if similar vacancies occur in the future.
Student involvement needed in appointment of SBVP
PG-13 movies can be pretty violent, but now, the rating may as well 
be obsolete. PG-13-rated ?lms surpassed R-rated ?lms in the amount 
of gun violence that they contained 
in 2011 and 2012, according to a recent study published in Pediatrics, 
the of?cial journal of the American 
Academy of Pediatrics.
The issue here doesnt lie with the 
amount of violence in these ?lms, 
since theres no correlation between 
violence in ?lms and the real world. 
As pointed out by David Horowitz of 
Media Coalition, Inc. in an interview 
with USA Today, real-world crime 
rates have dropped signi?cantly. 
The real issue is that the MPAA is 
not strict about the violence it portrays in PG-13 movies, yet it is still 
strict about the sexual content in 
?lms. For example, including an orgasm scene yeilds an NC-17 rating.
Now that violence seems to have 
little effect on a movies rating, these 
ratings only signify the amount of 
sexual content in the ?lm. The MPAA 
should place more emphasis on violence than on sex when determining 
which ratings to attach to ?lms. Sex 
is a natural part of life while gun violence is not.
While changing popular movie 
content is unlikely, the Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA) 
needs to put forward clearer and 
more sensible de?nitions for PG-13 
and R that are more friendly to sexual content compared to violence.
The American people can see 
a man tortured without becoming 
upset, as in Casino Royale. But sex 
in a movie, like Black Swan, enrages 
some moviegoers. Those reactions 
are most unfortunate because theres 
no immediate ?x; Americans desensitization to violence and their highly 
sensitive approach to sex have been 
decades in the making.
While itd be great to see the 
MPAA sensibly judge the amount of 
skin or sexual contact allowed, that 
remains unlikely. In the meantime, 
Hollywood needs to scale back its 
violence in PG-13 movies, or just bite 
the bullet and call them what they 
should be: rated R.
MPAA should emphasize violence over sex in ratings
Clarity a problem in Simon Initiative announcement
ARIEL HOFFMAIER 
The time has come to take a look 
at vegetarianism again. Vegetarians 
and vegans have earned a reputation for being preachy, a stereotype 
that derives from its grain of truth. 
But just for a moment, lets put aside 
the stigma and reevaluate the facts. 
Vegetarianism is often portrayed 
as an extreme life choice with supporters who impinge upon the freedoms of meat-eaters, but this notion 
can be mitigated if the choice to eat 
meat is balanced with vegetarian 
habits.
Contrary to popular belief, vegetarianism is not a herd mentality. 
Rather, it is better thought of as a 
population of individuals with different motivations guiding them toward the same lifestyle choice.
The range of incentives for vegetarianism is wide indeed. First, 
plenty of people make the switch for 
their health. This makes sense when 
it is considered that vegetarianism 
has been tied to lower risk of heart 
disease, diabetes, and obesity, as 
well as a longer life span in general, 
according to the American Cancer 
Society.
On the other hand, the most commonly cited motivation for vegetarianism is that the meat industry is 
institutionalized animal cruelty. Of 
course, there are arguments about 
evolution and the natural hierarchy 
of the food chain, but there is nothing natural about engineering chickens to grow so fat so quickly that 
they suffer crippling health defects. 
It is also not natural to cram pigs so 
tightly into cages that they go virtually mad from lack of stimulation. 
Early mutilation, life-long suffering, 
and a bloody death is the fate for 
many animals that Americans will 
later have on their dinner plates.
These facts are indisputable, and 
most meat-eaters are knowledgeable of them. However, being able 
to enjoy meat must involve separating the dining experience with the 
awareness of where the food comes 
from. This enjoyment comes only 
through a silencing of the moral 
compass. The moral compass usually makes people empathize with the 
suffering of any living creature and 
tells them that taking life is wrong. 
Additionally, there is a kind of 
hypocrisy to the arbitrariness with 
which we assign certain animals to 
be loved and others to be slaughtered in mass. All of these factors 
makes it dif?cult to be an omnivore 
with a clear conscience.
The most persuasive argument 
for vegetarianism is also perhaps 
the least well-known. In addition to 
murdering animals, the meat industry plays an enormous role in killing the environment because of the 
huge amount of resources it takes 
to raise livestock: The meat industry uses 30 percent of Earths total 
land mass, as well as 70 percent of 
all grain, 50 percent of available water, and 33 percent of all fossil fuels 
in the United States, according to 
ChooseVeg.com. 
These statistics do not even begin 
to cover the water pollution caused 
by runoff of animal wastes and the 
methane emissions from millions of 
cows. Methane, a greenhouse gas 
more powerful than carbon dioxide, is responsible for nearly half of 
the worlds human-induced global 
warming, and animal agriculture 
is the number one source of it, according to nonpro?t organization 
EarthSave.
Perhaps the reason vegans and 
vegetarians get a bad rap is because 
they like to speak in extremes. They 
push forward with harrowing information about the meat industry and 
demand immediate and total conversion. They wonder: if the facts 
are in their favor  as they clearly 
are  why isnt everyone jumping 
at the opportunity to better themselves, other living creatures, and 
the planet?
The answer is that meat tastes 
good, and vegetarians always seem 
to brush over that small point. What 
might surprise both the vegetarians 
and the omnivores, however, is that 
the argument is not black and white. 
Moderation is an option.
According to Vegetarian Times, 
while only 7.3 million Americans are 
vegetarians, 22.8 million more follow a vegetarian-inclined diet. This 
diet doesnt entail giving up meat 
entirely. Even small lifestyle changes 
can have an enormous impact on a 
large scale. 
The Environmental Defense 
Fund has estimated that if every 
American went vegetarian for just 
one day a week, it would be equivalent to taking an incredible 8 million 
cars off of the road for that week.
So, try breaking the assumption 
that meat has to be the default for 
every meal. Try dubbing certain 
days each week Meatless Days. 
Try opting for no protein or hitting 
up Evgefstos for their awesome 
spinach-artichoke dip. Maybe, with 
time, youll experience a gradual 
shift  so slow you hardly notice 
that its happening  to something 
increasingly resembling the vegetarianism you were so positive was not 
for you.
Ariel Hoffmaier (ahoffmai@) is a 
staffwriter for The Tartan.
Balance vegetarianism with meat-eating habits
Rachel Cohen/Pilbox Editor & Braden Kelner/Forum Editor
Confused about the Simon Initiative? So is The Tartan.
In an email sent to the campus 
community last Monday by the Presidents Of?ce, President Subra Suresh 
announced the Simon Initiative, a 
program aimed at enhancing the 
ways in which students interact with 
technology to learn. Through Carnegie Mellons extensive work with 
learning data, the university hopes 
to improve education for students 
across the globe.
However, the initiative is ill-de?ned, and its outlined description 
and goals are too vague to instill con?dence in the project. There is no lucid explanation on the website or in 
the email announcing the initiative. 
The initial email, as well as the 
Simon Initiatives website, promote 
the program as a way to gain information about how students currently 
learn and how they can be better educated with the help of technology.
But the public information about 
the initiative does little more than 
give readers an ambiguous idea of 
what the program aims to achieve.
The information about the initiative promises quanti?able information to achieve these goals, but there 
are no outlined quanti?able ways 
to measure the success of the initiative. Instead, the announcements are 
merely ?lled with buzzwords that 
amorphously hint at progress.
The recent email raises some 
pressing questions. What kind of 
research will the initiative speci?-
cally pursue to produce quanti?able 
learning outcomes? How will the 
Global Learning Council (GLC), announced alongside the Simon Initiative, provide greater global access to 
learning tools? How much will the 
initiative cost? 
If these communications are how 
the Presidents Of?ce will interact 
with its students, how can it expect 
to convey information to other parties for fundraising, growth, and 
public relations?
Suresh, and others involved in 
the initiative, should have provided 
a tentative outline of tangible goals 
to the public and predicted impacts 
that the Simon Initiative will have. 
An outline, similar to a 10-year plan, 
could provide the campus community with more information about what 
the initiative aims to accomplish. 
The Presidents Of?ce wanted 
the universitys community to know 
about the initiative. Otherwise, it 
would not have sent the email describing the initiative. But if the goal 
was to provide useful information, 
then the email was a failure.
Braden Kelner/Forum Editor

---------------------------------------------------

A PERSONS OPINION
The inauguration ceremony events for President Subra Suresh were this week. So we asked
What advice would you give Suresh now that he is inaugurated?
Compiled by Justin McGown
Tobi Owoputi
Computer Science
Senior
Support students and groups 
and activities.
Darren Kerfoot
MechE
Sophomore
The president should support 
Greek Life as a social outlet to 
the academic struggles at CMU.
Lucy Guo
Computer Science
Sophomore
Take more time into thinking 
about students wellbeing and 
develop resources to help us.
Brendan Badia
ECE, Economics
Junior
Listen to students who have 
more ideas than me.
Jordan Green
ChemE, BME
Junior
Dont love the drive you have to 
make changes.
November 18, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/forum  A9
BRANDON SCHMUCK 
According to a 2013 CareerBuilder survey, 39 percent of companies 
use social networks to screen potential candidates, up from 37 percent last year. Because companies 
are increasingly using social media 
websites to determine who to hire, it 
makes sense that colleges would join 
them when deciding which prospective students to accept and which 
to deny. According to a Kaplan telephone survey, 31 percent of college 
admissions of?cers have visited a 
prospective students pro?le to gain 
more information about them.
If hiring managers are already 
using social media to gain information about potential job candidates, 
why is it a big deal for colleges to do 
the same for prospective students?
The answer lies in the way teens 
use social media. Colleges cannot 
accurately judge students by their 
pro?les because too many teens are 
unaware of the consequences of 
online posts. Before colleges begin 
to use this information, educators 
must make teens more aware of the 
bearing that the information that 
they post online can have in their 
lives. According to a Pew Research 
Center study, 19 percent of teens later regret information that they post 
online. Teens may be unaware of the 
effects that their posts can hold.
A survey by CASAColumbia 
found that the number of teens posting pictures about alcohol or drug 
use online is exceptionally high. For 
teens between the ages of 16-17, 68 
percent of respondents say that they 
have seen pictures of other teens using drugs or alcohol on social media 
sites. It is becoming more socially acceptable for teens to post things that 
would otherwise be deemed inappropriate. The CASAColumbia survey found that 75 percent of teens 
believe that seeing their peers use 
drugs and alcohol on social media 
networks makes other teens want 
to act the same way. This belief may 
stem from the need for teenagers to 
feel popular or accepted.
However, while this inappropriate content can make teens more 
accepted by others their age, college 
counselors that come across this information can use it against them. 
According to the Kaplan telephone 
questionnaire, 30 percent of college 
admissions of?cers discovered content online that negatively affected 
an applicants outcome.
While the debate over whether 
or not colleges should look at social 
media continues to focus on the actions of college counselors, the real 
problem is the current online activity of teens. The current generation 
is not aware of the effects of sharing 
online content and does little in the 
way of protecting this information. 
The Pew Research Center revealed 
that 14 percent of teens have their 
Facebook pro?les completely public, 
while another 25 percent have only 
partial privacy settings.
Teens may care more about hiding their information from their 
parents than admissions counselors. 
College counselors seem more distant than parents, who directly in?uence teens, and the idea of being 
denied by a college over a harmless 
social media post could seem absurd. A McAfee study found that 70 
percent of teens hide online activity from parents, while 19.9 percent 
manipulate settings to block social 
media from their parents.
This information that teens are 
working to keep away from their 
parents is the same information that 
could result in a rejection letter from 
their dream college. Parents may be 
unaware of this content and its effects on their children.
Because most teenagers do not 
have experience with employers or 
decision making in many real-life 
situations, it only makes sense that 
teens are naturally more irresponsible than adults on social media. 
However, while people focus on the 
ways in which colleges look at prospective students online, the real 
issue is how teens use social media. 
Many put content online that could 
potentially ruin their lives, and most 
schools and parents do little to stop 
them. We must refocus on educating 
teens on the effects of social media 
so that college admissions counselors have nothing negative to ?nd. 
While most high schools neglect social media and outright ban it within 
their walls, they must change their 
focus and responsibly incorporate it 
into their curriculum.
Brandon Schmuck (bschmuck@) is a 
staffwriter for The Tartan.
Colleges shouldnt ?nd students on Facebook
CHLOE THOMPSON 
Last month, a letter from an unidenti?ed brother of the Phi Kappa 
Tau fraternity at the Georgia Institute of Technology was published on 
the Internet. In this letter, the brother enumerates techniques to pick up 
girls at parties. It is signed, in luring rapebait. Obviously, the letter 
is decidedly creepy, but the brother 
uses a few interesting phrases. For 
instance, at one point he writes, ALWAYS START WITH THE MAKING 
OUT!!!! NO RAPING.
This letter got me thinking. A few 
of the other techniques he discusses 
in the letter have some extremely 
questionable implications in terms 
of consent (mostly his, if anything 
fails, go get more alcohol, point), 
but this point is the only time that 
the brother acknowledges that some 
of his techniques could lead to rape. 
Did the fraternity brother really fail 
to understand that a kiss and consent are two very different things?
As Jamie Utt of the Good Men 
Project points out in his article, 
Open Letter to the Rapey Frat 
Brother and the How to Get Laid 
Generation, this boy may not actually understand what rape is. Utt argues in his open letter that Americas 
cultural de?nitions of consent and 
sex are so skewed that some people 
simply dont understand what is de?ned as consent and what is de?ned 
as rape. If society lacks a clear cultural language about sex, then a culture 
that allows sexual assault is almost 
inevitable.
The fraternity brother repeatedly suggests that other brothers get 
girls to grind against them or sneak 
kisses on girls necks or cheeks as the 
?rst step. He also says, dont ?nger 
them... yet, and says nothing about 
actually asking someone if its okay 
to touch their genitals. Its not necessary to explicitly ask to kiss someone  though it is deeply necessary 
to pay attention to the person youre 
kissing, and if they seem at all uncomfortable, you should most de?-
nitely stop  but the idea of ?ngering or touching anyone else in that 
manner without express permission 
is deeply problematic.
What, exactly, is so wrong with 
asking for permission? Why advocate for a culture that encourages 
pushing the envelope as far as possible, instead of checking in with 
a prospective partner? Culturally, 
people have this idea that consent to 
one thing is consent to everything, 
which is why sexual assault victims 
are often asked how they were behaving or what they were wearing at 
the time of the attack. However, consent to kissing on a dance ?oor is not 
consent to being ?ngered on a dance 
?oor; consent to being ?ngered is not 
consent to any other kind of sexual 
contact. 
Consent must be obtained for 
each and every step of the process; 
it cannot be implied by skirt length 
or a smile. Consent can only be given 
by a clear, enthusiastic, and repeated 
yes.
Chloe Thompson (cet@) is a staffwriter for The Tartan.
Ask for consent every step of the way
JUSTIN YAN
On Nov. 11, Typhoon Haiyan ravaged and tore into the Philippines. 
The typhoon made landfall near 
the city of Tacloban, and some estimates point to an initial death toll of 
4,400, largely from Tacloban. Haiyan stormed through the Philippines 
and damaged many other cities, 
whose people are worried that aid 
will come only to Tacloban.
Some foreign powers are trying to 
help the Philippines. The Philippines 
occupy a strategic area in the Paci?c, 
far enough to elude Chinas in?uences but close enough for con?ict. Earlier in August, China and the Philippines argued over control of a small 
group of islands called the Spratly 
Islands. The Philippines, along with 
Japan and South Korea, have been 
on the receiving end of Chinas recent aggressive claims for surrounding islands in the South China Sea.
While China has the ability to help 
those affected in the Philippines, the 
nation has made itself seem like a 
sulking rival, seemingly unable to 
help out when, in reality, it is able to.
In response to Typhoon Haiyan, the United States sent the USS 
George Washington aircraft carrier, 
?lled to the brim with relief supplies, while Japan is set to embark 
on its largest relief effort yet. Even 
the British, who dont directly touch 
the Paci?c, are sending their own 
aircraft carrier.
Meanwhile, the Chinese are donating a total of $1.6 million, far less 
than any of the above operations. 
This ?gure only appeared after their 
initial donation of $100,000  a 
measly sum for such a large, prosperous country. The donation contrasts 
with Chinas major investments in 
a few select African countries and 
their large relief effort after the Pakistan earthquake.
Chinas initial sum of $100,000 is 
a re?ection of current relations with 
the Philippines and will re?ect horribly on their part. Moreover, the only 
substantial aid reaching the Philippines is from the Red Cross and other 
countries right now. Chinas strategic 
location would allow the country to 
give the Philippines the most aid.
Additionally, if Chinese aid workers were willing, they could perform 
relief work of the highest order. China would bene?t from these efforts 
because they would look like strong 
leaders and could help to diffuse territorial disputes and tension.
The U.S. once colonized the Philippines, and ill-feeling toward the 
U.S. has largely abated within the 
country since then. The U.S. may be 
trying to maintain these now good 
relations with its sizable aid package 
and impressive warship, which carries helicopters to deliver food and 
medical kits to remote areas.
China, however, seems to be 
happy with where relations stand 
with the Philippines. Hence, it has 
contributed a negligible amount of 
aid, adding to chilled relations. Generally for countries, especially those 
that go through monsoon season on 
a regular basis (like Singapore, Malaysia, and China), a notable way to 
aid the Philippines would be to send 
workers, engineers, and architects to 
further enforce and strengthen any 
infrastructure that remains. These 
efforts would help the Philippines 
minimize storm-related damage in 
the future. However, China has not 
provided this type of aid.
In the next few days, it will be intriguing to see how China continues 
to respond. Will the change in aid 
from an initial $100,000 donation to 
a $1.6 million donation re?ect an upward trend in aid sent to the Philippines, or was the increased donation 
the last of Chinas aid?
Justin Yan (jky@) is a staffwriter for 
The Tartan.
China must better aid typhoon victims
Braden Kelner/Forum Editor
Braden Kelner/Forum Editor

---------------------------------------------------

A10  thetartan.org/sports The Tartan  November 18, 2013
RESEARCH AND CREATE
AN EXHIBIT AT POSNER CENTER
15 HOURS/WEEK FOR 15 WEEKS
$3,000|OPTION FOR CREDIT
APPLY BY NOV. 25, 11:59PM
WILLIAM PARK
Sports Editor
The No. 12 mens soccer 
teams NCAA Championship 
aspirations ended this Sunday 
in a 10 loss to No. 22 Montclair State University. On that 
rainy Pittsburgh afternoon, 
the Tartans couldnt crack the 
tight Montclair defense.
The Tartans had many 
quality chances on goal, starting in the 27th minute. Senior 
forward Max Tassano slipped 
behind the defense and took a 
hard low shot from outside the 
penalty box, but Montclairs 
goalie Kevin Lynch made a 
great diving save to his right.
Lynch made four more 
saves and was a big presence 
in net.
Montclair State scored 
the only goal of the game after a poor clearance in the 
30th minute. A deep throwin bounced into the Carnegie 
Mellon penalty box, but no 
one was able to clear it and 
Montclairs Lucas Terci ?red 
an uncontested shot to the 
right corner of the net.
Montclair State took six 
shots in the game, and the Tartans took 12.
In the 34th minute, the 
Tartans received a break when 
Montclairs Kazari Trought 
was given a straight red card 
after elbowing sophomore 
mid?elder Jordan Friedlander in the head of a disputed 
throw-in.
With the man advantage, 
the Tartans created several 
threatening scoring chances. 
But a strong Montclair mid?eld made it dif?cult for the 
Tartans to win loose balls and 
control possession.
In the second half, Montclair was content to sit back 
and defend. The Tartans maintained possession in the opposing third, but the margin 
for error was extremely small 
given how tight the Montclair 
defense was.
They just made it tough 
for us and defended with everybody, head coach Arron 
Lujan said. We kept trying 
and trying  we had a few really good chances  and we 
just couldnt put it away.
Senior defender Ben Bryant was determined to carry 
his team into the next round. 
In the 70th minute, he singlehandedly stopped a Montclair 
counterattack and dribbled 
into the defense. He beat his 
defender and ?red a shot that 
went inches above the crossbar.
Bryant is one of six senior 
starters who played their ?nal 
game. The Tartans will lose 
their two forwards Tassano 
and Chris Wysocki, who combined for 15 goals this season, 
as well as mid?elders Mike 
Ferraco and Matt Sarett.
Senior goalkeeper Christopher Madden made several 
crucial saves throughout the 
season and ?nished with six 
shutouts. We have a lot of 
great seniors, and were going 
to miss them a lot, Lujan said.
After the game, several senior players had tears in their 
eyes and shared long embraces with teammates and family 
members.
To go out in a cruel game 
like today was tough, but 
they should be proud of what 
theyve done, Lujan said.
Over their four years, the 
senior class led the team to 
two NCAA Tournaments and a 
University Athletic Association 
(UAA) title last year.
Notable players who are 
also graduating include forward Jerome Reano, a speedy 
attacker who consistently 
gave the team a spark off the 
bench, and mid?elder Cole 
Christensen.
But with a 1233 record 
and a second-place ?nish in 
the UAA Conference, the season was by no means a disappointment.
The team was great this 
year. Its not easy to repeat 
what we did last year because 
were not surprising anyone, 
Lujan said. For us to come out 
and get to the same round in 
the NCAA Tournament that 
we did last year, I think, is a 
great accomplishment.
Mens soccer team ends winning season with tough loss
Maryyann Landlord/Staff Photographer
Before Sundays loss to Montclair State University, the Tartans defeated Virginia Wesleyan College 31 on Saturday. Senior defender Ben Bryant 
(above) attempts a cross into the penalty box. 
Jason Chen/Staff Photographer
Senior forward Chris Wysocki scored two goals against Virginia Wesleyan 
College on Saturday and had three shots against Montclair State.
Jason Chen/Staff Photographer
Senior forward Max Tassano attempts a shot against Virginia Wesleyan. 
Tassano recorded one shot on goal in Sundays loss. 
Maryyann Landlord/Staff Photographer
Senior mid?elder Matt Sarett challenges a Virginia Wesleyan player. Sarett missed Sundays game due to an injury.

---------------------------------------------------

November 18, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/sports  A11
ZEKE ROSENBERG
Junior Staffwriter
The Carnegie Mellon football team opened its ?nal 
game of the season against 
Case Western Reserve University on an optimistic note  but 
ultimately lost 35-32 last Saturday night.
After an impressive Carnegie Mellon defensive stop 
ended Case Westerns opening 
drive, senior quarterback Rob 
Kalkstein connected with junior wide receiver Tim Swanson for a 72-yard touchdown 
score.
The momentum did not 
last long, though. Two drives 
later, on fourth-and-eleven on 
the Carnegie Mellon 46-yard 
line, Case Western lined up in 
a punt formation but shocked 
the Tartans and pulled off a 
?ea ?icker that went for 29 
yards and an improbable ?rst 
down, setting up a tying score 
for Case.
After that, the momentum 
really seemed to roll in Case 
Westerns direction. A lost 
fumble by Carnegie Mellons 
special teams and impressive 
kick returns from Case led to a 
2810 de?cit by the middle of 
the second quarter.
The lost fumble was symptomatic of butter?ngers in 
the Carnegie Mellon kickreturn teams. Five different kicks were dropped or 
fumbled on kickoffs, leading to consistently poor ?eld 
position. 
In what turned out to be 
only a three-point loss, the 
?eld position battle probably 
made the difference.
On the offensive side of the 
ball, the Tartans alternated 
between impressive drives and 
frustrating possessions that 
stalled at mid?eld. 
Both the aerial attack 
and the running game were 
inconsistent; they were often 
impressive, but sometimes underwhelming.
The offensive line cant be 
blamed, however. The blocking was great, and Kalksteins 
blind side was well protected 
throughout the entire game, 
thanks to a strong showing 
from the left tackle senior Alex 
Copeland.
Copeland wasnt satis?ed 
with his individual performance, and felt this was a 
game Carnegie Mellon could 
have won.
Its tough, he said. You 
try and do what you want to 
do with the offense, put up 32 
points, [but] the offense and 
defense didnt really sync together, and as a team its really 
tough on all of us. Everybody 
played well during the season 
and really tried to do all that 
they could do, but at the end, 
its tough to see that it didnt 
all come together.
This sentiment echoed a 
frustrating season in which 
very few bounces seemed to 
go in the Tartans favor. Copeland continued, We could 
have done a lot better this 
season; we had a lot of close 
losses.
The offense did all it could 
to mount a comeback, including an electrifying ?nal drive 
capped with a great two-point 
conversion pass to Swanson. 
The ensuing onside kick was a 
50/50 ball, but Case Western 
recovered it to seal the game.
On the other side of the 
football, the defense gave up 
35 points, but deserved far 
more credit.
Drives often started close 
to mid?eld, and the Case 
Western offense was inconsistent, relying on big plays as 
opposed to consistent positive 
plays to move down the ?eld. 
The defenses real Achilles 
heel throughout the game was 
the ?ea ?icker. Flea ?ickers 
resulted in both the aforementioned long fourth-down conversion and a touchdown later 
in the game.
Case Western tried to avoid 
wherever senior safety Jack 
Butler was, and with good reason. Whenever he was near the 
ball, he shut everyone down. 
It was an unfortunate way for 
the stars career to end.
This season was de?nitely 
a heartbreaker, Butler said. 
We had a lot of close games 
where we kept it tight and we 
couldnt pull it out in the end. 
But I dont regret coming here; 
I dont regret playing here at 
all.
It was a cruel ending to 
some great careers in Carnegie Mellon football. In addition to Butler and Copeland, 
quarterback Kalkstein ends his 
distinguished career. His 327 
passing yards gave him a total 
of 5,664 yards for his career, 
setting a school record.
It was a tough season  one 
that could have had a wildly 
different ending based on a 
few bounces. The 37 record 
doesnt do justice to a team 
that consistently played hard 
and kept games close, but just 
didnt have the luck to pull 
wins out in the end.
Special teams and trick plays foil football team in season ?nale
Jonathan Leung/Assistant Photo Editor
Senior wide receiver Tim Kikta makes a move against a Case Western defender. Kikta caught four of senior quarterback Rob Kalksteins 22 completed passes. Kalkstein ?nished the game 
with a career-high 327 passing yards, which makes him the schools all-time passing leader.

---------------------------------------------------

A12  thetartan.org/sports The Tartan  November 18, 2013
CARL GLAZER
Senior Staffwriter
Football has always been 
about strength  mental, 
physical, and emotional toughness are attributes that make 
a good football player. Skill is 
not enough; you have to want 
it more and be willing to suffer 
more.
This mindset, which has 
resulted in an increasingly 
violent sport, also breeds a 
dangerous off-the-?eld environment where hazing has become more prominent.
The recent Richie Incognito/Jonathan Martin scandal 
is the ?rst case of locker-room 
hazing being fully exposed to 
the public.
On Oct. 31, Martin, the 
starting left tackle, left the 
Miami Dolphins under the 
guise of battling emotional 
issues. A few days later, it 
was reported that Martin left 
the team due to bullying and 
harassment from teammates, 
with Incognito being named 
the perpetrator by Martin the 
next day.
The Dolphins quickly suspended Incognito, and ever 
since, all parties have been 
trying to get their side of the 
story out to the public. Whats 
surprising is that both Martin 
and Incognito have received 
their share of supporters.
Former players have criticized Martin for publicizing an 
in-house con?ict. On the other 
hand, the common public has 
backed Martin as the victim of 
senseless bullying.
Hazing has always been a 
part of football. It is so widely 
accepted that some coaches 
use rookie hazing as a tool. 
Hall of Fame coach Bill Parcells 
famously picked one rookie 
every year, usually the teams 
?rst-round draft choice, to be 
his personal water boy.
Other famous hazing activities include a rookie talent 
show, where each rookie must 
perform a skit, sing their college ?ght song, or perform 
some other embarrassing task. 
There are also the traditional 
bad haircuts administered by 
team veterans. In 2012, one 
rookie on the Miami Dolphins 
was given a haircut shaped to 
resemble a penis.
These pranks may seem 
like harmless fun meant for a 
little bit of team bonding, but 
many hazing rituals have more 
real-life impacts than shortterm embarrassment.
However, coaches such as 
Steelers coach Mike Tomlin 
and former Colts coach Tony 
Dungy are very strict about 
hazing, placing limits on the 
extent of meal buying and 
banning traditional activities 
like taping rookies to the goal 
posts overnight.
The problem is that many 
coaches do not like to police 
their locker rooms and instead 
leave that role to the team 
leaders. When those leaders are players like Incognito, 
though, things can get out of 
hand quickly.
Incognitos behavioral 
problems were ?rst reported 
in 2002 when he was suspended from a game for spitting on another player during 
his ?rst year at the University 
of Nebraska. Despite his baggage, he was drafted by the St. 
Louis Rams in the third round. 
He played for the Rams until 
2009 and earned a reputation 
as the leagues dirtiest player.
While his anger problems 
caused issues off the ?eld, they 
also made him a great football 
player. His on-?eld performance resulted in a Pro Bowl 
invitation in the 2012 season 
and more. He was voted onto 
the Dolphins leadership council, and when a shy Martin was 
drafted out of Stanford University, Incognito was asked to 
toughen up the rookie.
It was during this toughening-up process that Martin 
cracked. Back in April, Incognito left Martin a voicemail at 
a coachs behest after Martin 
chose not to attend voluntary team workout activities. 
According to ESPNs Adam 
Schefter, Incognito directed 
racial slurs and expletivelaced threats toward Martin 
and his family.
Martin ?nally left the team 
after an entire table of teammates stood up and left when 
he went to sit down with them 
at lunch. Martin allegedly 
smashed his tray of food on 
the table and walked out of 
building with little intention 
of returning.
While it would be easy to 
make this a black-and-white 
issue of bullying, the environment surrounding football, 
the Dolphins, and even Martin 
are not without blame.
Football is a sport that encourages unconstrained anger. The NFL has no mention 
of bullying or hazing in its 
agreement with the NFL Players Association. 
There has never been an effort by the NFL to address this 
problem within its own locker 
rooms and within the lower 
ranks of football.
The Dolphins organization 
has also come under pressure 
for its extreme negligence. If 
the allegations are true that 
some of the coaching staff 
encouraged Incognitos emotional taunting of Martin, 
there must be swift and harsh 
retribution. 
Nevertheless, there was 
still a major institutional 
breakdown that should at 
least result in a massive house 
cleaning by the Dolphins, with 
all new coaches and possibly 
even players being brought in.
Martins role in this scandal 
is the most quizzical. As the 
story continues to develop, it 
appears that Martin did more 
than just sit silently as he was 
harassed by Incognito. He 
responded to Incognito in a 
similar fashion. One text from 
Martin to Incognito contained 
a meme with the text, I will 
murder your whole f****** 
family, over a macro of a 
woman laughing with a dog in 
her hand.
This is not a problem that 
will be quickly solved. Incognito and Martin were the two 
players that brought this issue 
to the forefront, but there is a 
large cultural and institutional 
problem in play. Football is 
a game about utilizing anger 
and aggression and turning 
them against your opponent 
in as physical a manner as possible. Since this aspect of the 
game appears to be unchangeable without losing much of 
the physicality that makes the 
NFL so popular, there must 
be another way to handle the 
aggression when the players 
are off the turf.
The solution will require 
a massive paradigm shift in 
how the NFL treats its players. 
But as with health concerns, 
these changes need to come 
from the bottom. Coaches at 
the youth, middle school, and 
even high school levels must 
do more to ensure that the relationship between players is 
one of camaraderie and mentorship instead of harassment 
and hazing.
As hazing is cracked down 
on in colleges across the nation, it is critical to set a good 
example of how to treat those 
younger than you. Its hard to 
tell college and high school 
students that hazing and bullying is wrong when their 
role models do it in front of 
cameras with encouragement 
from their bosses and leaders.
WILLIAM PARK
Sports Editor
After a magical run into 
the quarter?nals of the NCAA 
Championships last season, 
the womens soccer team fell 
short in its return to the tournament this year.
On Saturday, the Tartans 
ended their season with a 10 
loss to York College of Pennsylvania in the ?rst round of the 
NCAA Championships.
Expectations were high this 
season. The Tartans opened 
the season ranked No. 5 in 
Division III, but after three 
straight losses to close the season, the Tartans dropped out 
of the Top 25 ranking.
Throughout the season, the 
Tartans struggled to ?nd their 
?nishing touch: They would 
consistently outplay and outshoot their opponents, but 
often couldnt ?nd the back of 
the net.
This year, we felt a real 
need to make it back to NCAA 
and do well, and I think that 
pressure  all throughout the 
season  made it harder for 
us to perform well, graduatestudent goalkeeper Anna Albi 
said.
Although they could get 
by weaker opponents, they 
struggled against tougher 
competition in the University 
Athletic Association (UAA) 
Conference.
Their poor ?nishing ?nally 
caught up to them against York 
College. The Tartans outshot 
York 177 but had nothing to 
show for their strong play.
York College opened the 
scoring in the 26th minute 
on an unlucky play when 
Yorks Emily Cronise took a 
weak shot from 20 yards out. 
The ball appeared to be heading out of bounds, but as Albi 
went to grab it, the ball took 
an awkward bounce and spun 
off of Albi into the net.
The game should not have 
come down to that goal, however, as the Tartans outplayed 
York in the second half.
Junior forward Savina 
Reid created multiple chances 
in the half. In the 52nd minute, sophomore mid?elder 
Louisa Pendergast played a 
great through ball to Reid on 
the right sideline. Reid pulled 
back past her defender and 
powered a left-footed shot 
that went just left of net.
Reid also created another 
scoring chance six minutes later when she sent a cross into 
the penalty box that bounced 
right to sophomore Amanda 
Broderick at point-blank 
range. But Broderick couldnt 
get enough of her foot on the 
ball, and her shot landed softly 
in the hands of the York goalie.
It was a bitter end for the 
graduating class. 
Its really amazing to 
see how far the program has 
come, skill-wise and culturalwise, Albi said. Our culture 
is very different  much more 
competitive and much more 
serious about being a topranked team than it was my 
freshman year. 
Back in 2010, the team had 
a pedestrian 88 record and 
peaked last year with a 1415 
record.
In addition to Albi, the 
Tartans lose two strong 
defenders this year.
Rachel Contopoulos, who 
led the team in points with two 
goals and six assists, as well as 
Brittany Couture, a two-time 
All-UAA Honorable Mention, 
played their ?nal games on 
Saturday.
Senior forward Alex Venegas missed time with a knee 
injury, but returned to score 
two goals in six UAA games.
The strength of this team 
is its youth, and many young 
players look ready to step up.
First-year goalie Katie Liston gained valuable playing 
time, earning a 410 record 
in goal, and looks ready to be 
the next starter for years to 
come.
Pendergast, who had 
four goals on the season, has 
emerged as a crafty and creative offensive playmaker, 
and sophomore defensive 
mid?elder Carson Quiros is an 
intimidating presence in the 
mid?eld who also scored three 
goals.
First-year defenders Amelia Clark and Samantha Smith 
should form a strong back line 
for the next three years.
I trust the team will be 
great next year. Im sure we 
will have a lot of new talent 
coming in, and theres a lot 
of talent there already, Albi 
said.
Womens soccer season ends early in the NCAA tourney
UAA Sports Standings
Mens Soccer
Univ.Conf.WLT
Rochester5111522
CMU4121233
Emory4121152
Wash. U. 3221043
Brandeis3311641
Chicago340962
CWRU151674
NYU061683
Football
Univ.Conf.WL
Wash. U3082
CWRU2154
Chicago1264
CMU0337
Volleyball
Univ.Conf.WL
Chicago612711
Emory 52334
CMU432510
Wash. U.61278
NYU43288
CWRU251617
Rochester07927
Brandeis161025
Womens Soccer
Univ.ConfWLT
Wash. U.7001910
Emory6101631
Chicago3221153
CMU331952
Brandeis2321063
Rochester133665
NYU052892
CWRU052783
Upcoming Schedule
Cross Country 
Nov. 23
NCAA Championships, 
Hanover College, 11 a.m.
Swimming/Diving 
Nov. 22 
Carnegie Mellon Diving 
Invite, 6 p.m.
Dec. 57 
Total Performance Invitational, Kenyon College
Womens Basketball
Nov. 19 
Carnegie Mellon at Grove 
City College, 6 p.m.
Nov. 21 
Carnegie Mellon at Allegheny College, 7 p.m.
Nov. 24 
Thiel College at Carnegie 
Mellon, 2 p.m.
Nov. 26 
Baldwin Wallace University at Carnegie Mellon, 6 p.m.
Mens Basketball
Nov. 18 
Geneva College at Carnegie Mellon, 7:30 p.m.
Nov. 23 
University of PittsburghGreensburg at Carnegie 
Mellon, 3 p.m.
Nov. 26 
Allegheny College at Carnegie Mellon, 8 p.m.
SPORTS COMMENTARY
Incognito/Martin scandal highlights crass culture in NFL
Coaches at the youth, middle 
school, and even high school 
levels must do more to ensure 
that the relationship between 
players is one of camaraderie and 
mentorship instead of harassment 
and hazing.

---------------------------------------------------

11.18.13 Volume 108, Issue 12

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
This weeks comics are comically comic.11
Dollar Movie
AB Films presents a movie with Steve Carrell 
and another with Matt Damon.
7
The Tartan . Box 119 . UC Suite 103 . Carnegie Mellon University . 5000 Forbes Ave . Pittsburgh, PA 15213 . www.thetartan.org .  2013 The Tartan
PUBLISHER Jennifer Coloma EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Josh Smith
PILLBOX EDITOR Rachel Cohen ASSISTANT PILLBOX EDITOR Joey Peiser 
COMICS EDITOR Kairavi Chahal PHOTO EDITOR Kate Groschner 
COPY MANAGER Evan Kahn COVER Kelsey Scott
Cover photo courtesy of Stallio via Flickr
4
5
regulars...
Advice
Everything you need to know about asserting 
ones nap territory and your comfy shoulders.
3
...diversions
...this week only
Mariko Reid
Local jazz group comprised of Carnegie Mellon 
students plays an energetic show at Up. 
3
SPACE gallery
The latest SPACE gallery exhibition showcases 
a range of photography pieces.
4
Jennifer Aylmer
The new addition to the School of Music 
teaching staff sits down with The Tartan.
5
Holiday movies
A helpful guide to the best of what Hollywood 
will offer up in the coming weeks.
6
Thor
The sequel to the 2011 hit features stunning 
effects and a few plot holes.
7
School of Drama
The School of Drama continues its year-long 
celebration of classic American theater with a 
production of You Cant Take It With You.
8
Puzzles
A noble and true spirit will surely prevail against 
this weeks puzzles.
13
Horoscopes
Project your inner thoughts and feelings onto 
vaguely worded statements.
14
Calendar
Dont be the only one not getting their fill of 
Pittsburghs arts and culture scene this week!
15
8

---------------------------------------------------

music
pillbox 11.18.133
CMU students create jazz fusion
Mariko Reid Quintet mixes musical skill with energetic performances
On Thursday night, Carnegie Mellon students took 
Shadyside bar and restaurant Up by storm. The 
Mariko Reid Quintet played a series of jazzy pop 
classics ranging from a reworked version of Once 
Upon a December from the animated film Anastasia 
to old hip-hop favorites like Just a Friend. The 
group has described themselves as the trippinest, 
hippenest, flippenest, swaggiest, steaziest jazz-funkhiphop-RnB-neo-soul-post-modern-sonic-exploration.
The group is made up of five wildly talented Carnegie 
Mellon musicians: senior vocal performance major 
Mariko Reid, junior mechanical engineering major 
Matt Powell-Palm, junior composition major Stephen 
Murphy, senior information systems major Chris 
Lindsay, and senior double bass performance major 
Vince Galvan, standing in for Sam Lavery, a masters 
student in human-computer interaction. Each 
performer contributed a layer that complemented the 
next. Reids talent easily translates from one genre 
to another: She has a strong voice cut with emotion 
that rises above her fellow musicians. On saxophone, 
Powell-Palm added a layer of smooth to the music 
that wasnt showy: It built well, driving him into a 
state of shoulder-shuddering and feet-stomping vigor.
Chris Lindsay was remarkable on the drums. As 
Powell-Palm put it, Drummers that talented at that 
age dont exist in the world; he is so uniquely and 
phenomenally talented. Lindsays solos were jawdropping, as was the control he displayed. He moved 
the music in a natural and masterful way that pulled 
listeners in. Steven Murphy on piano also kept the 
arrangements moving with energy, enthusiasm, and 
skill, while Galvan on bass added a bottom layer that 
pulled the parts together.
The groups arrangements as a whole were fun, 
young, and alive. The feeling was very organic; 
the music grew in a loose process that the group 
attributes to the way it builds arrangements and 
creates shows as a whole. The venue was entirely 
engaged in calling out and dancing; listeners couldnt 
avoid tapping their feet or bobbing along, at the 
very least. The group strives for this level of energy 
at all its performances. At a past show, according to 
Powell-Palm, he and a few audience members even 
got up and danced on tables.
It wasnt only the quintet that performed that night: 
Audience members read slam poetry, freestyled, 
and sang with the band. Everyone was phenomenal 
and embraced the opportunity to join in. It was like 
stepping into a community in which every person 
standing next to you has some wonderful hidden 
talent, even if they didnt get up and show it.
The community accurately reflected Carnegie Mellon, 
especially at the end of the show with the bands 
performance of Just a Friend, which engrossed the 
whole room in freestyles, harmonies, and dancing.
The Mariko Reid Quintet has made a name for itself 
with shows around Pittsburgh, collaborations with 
local rappers, and an album compiled during last 
years SPIRIT fashion show. As the group members 
put it, the spring semester will be poppin. Two of 
the members are in their senior year, and their plan is 
to go hard to the end  continuing to play, exploring 
the avant-garde genre, and trying to contribute to the 
music scene here at Carnegie Mellon.
This growth seems inevitable with Carnegie Mellons 
concentration of talented musicians inside and out 
of the College of Fine Arts, as well as the ability of 
music to really just improve everything, according 
to Powell-Palm. Powell-Palm spoke of music to be 
an interactive experience that is good for the soul, 
and of the quintets efforts to provide just that. The 
group will play another show at Up in December 
and plans to continue to perform there. These 
performances are definitely worth attending as open 
opportunities to engage with some great music. The 
Mariko Reid Quintet is a group to look out for in the 
future.
Gwen Luvara | Junior Staffwriter
Editors Note: Matt Powell-Palm is a junior staffwriter 
for The Tartan.
Photo illustration courtesy of Daniel Kilkelly via the Mariko Reid Quintet
Advice for awkward people
Dear Matt and Ryan,
Recently, in some of 
my classes, the people 
sitting next to me have 
been falling asleep on 
me. As long as theres no 
drool involved, Im okay 
with it. But in every one 
of my classes this week 
someone actually fell 
asleep on my shoulder. 
Not the same people, 
not the same seats, 
nothing. Once, I was even 
unwittingly thrust into a 
sommeil  trois. Why is 
this happening to me?
Sincerely,
Sleepiness Has Other 
Undergrads Leaning 
Deeply, Ever-Ready 
Provider Is Less Loving Of 
Weirdos
Dear SHOULDER PILLOW,
Im sorry to say this, but it 
sounds like you just have 
some really comfortable 
shoulders. You have 
options, though. If you get 
to class late enough so 
that most of the seats are 
filled, pick an empty one 
next to someone who looks 
pretty awake. You could 
also keep them awake by 
nudging them, under the 
pretense of, Hey man, 
this is important stuff. The 
prof said itll be on the 
test! Fear is a powerful 
motivator. If youre looking 
for an extreme option, put 
an air horn in your pocket 
and attach the trigger 
to your shoulder pad. 
And when the inevitable 
happens, pretend like you 
didnt notice anything.
Theres nothing wrong 
with saving your 
shoulders for marriage,
Ryan & Matt
Dear Ryan and Matt,
Throughout the semester, 
Ive been timing my 
daily naps so I have a 
corner of the library 
all to myself. Its been 
great  I wake up full 
of energy and ready to 
tackle the rest of my day. 
Only problem is that in 
the past week, someone 
has been sleeping in my 
spot! I dont want to be 
mean and pop a balloon 
to wake him up, but I 
want my spot back! Any 
suggestions?
Thanks,
Barren Afternoon Bed 
Yielded, Bang to Effect 
Anticipated Rest
Dear BABY BEAR,
Were sure Goldilocks has 
been having as rough a 
week as you have. It isnt 
worth being a jerk just to 
get your nap time back. 
Besides, you said you 
have a whole corner of the 
library floor to yourself; 
whats sharing it with one 
other person? You can 
think of him as your midday 
roommate  chances are 
you two will be asleep at 
the same time and wont 
even be conscious of the 
others existence. But if you 
want to be cruel, put his 
hand in your warm coffee.
Sweet dreams, 
Matt & Ryan
Need advice? Send queries 
to advice@thetartan.org.
On napping and sleeping  very different things
The Mariko Reid Quintet, comprised of Carnegie Mellon students across multiple disciplines, combines an 
array of genres including jazz and hip-hop in energetic and crowd-pleasing performances.

---------------------------------------------------

4photography
pillbox 11.18.13
Photography occupies a realm both outside and within 
the con?nes of the contemporary art world. In this digital 
age, we encounter photography more than any other 
art medium. The vivid realness of a digital image, 
however, can create dif?culties in distinguishing what a 
photograph is and what it isnt.
In the SPACE gallery in downtown Pittsburgh, a 
photography exhibition curated by Carnegie Mellon 
alumna Jen Saffron (CFA 91) explores the limits and 
abilities of photography through installation, which 
uses site-speci?c pieces to transform the meaning 
of the space. Featuring the work of ?ve mid-career 
photographic artists, the exhibit explores how 
photography opens both ?gurative and literal lenses to 
new perspectives.
In conceiving the exhibition, Saffron began with an 
interest in exploring what constitutes a photograph. 
The trick of photography is that it can take the threedimensional and display it as two-dimensional, but it 
?attens out the original in the process. Whats more, 
photographs are therefore always a representative of the 
past, not the present.
Although it is conceptually driven, Saffron emphasizes 
that this show is not a contemporary art show but rather 
a photography show  an important distinction, given 
the long history of photography as a medium with its 
own rules and boundaries separate from the art world.
The photographers involved are Nancy Andrews, Dennis 
Marsico, Annie ONeill, Barbara Weissberger, and 
Carnegie Mellon adjunct professor of history Leo Hsu. 
Unlike many SPACE shows, says Saffron, this exhibition 
is not about showcasing contemporary emerging 
artists with novel ideas, but rather a platform for 
established, mid-career professionals who have a deep 
knowledge of the practice and experience. Between 
the ?ve of them, they have a profound understanding of 
photography as an interdisciplinary medium.
Hsus work in the show, a series titled Free to the People, 
focuses on the subject of the library, exploring it as a 
unique, semi-public space. His work for the project 
began in 2010, when the library was in crisis, and 
branches all around the nation were closing down and 
reducing hours due to overwhelming budget cuts.
Hsus strong personal connection to libraries motivated 
him to explore the space of the library conceptually 
through photographs. I have always really loved and 
appreciated public libraries, and Pittsburgh itself has 
a long history of libraries with the Carnegie Library. 
Hsu views libraries as a special space in an otherwise 
commercialized culture  one of the only places meant 
to be simply inhabited by all with no motivation to buy 
or sell.
Hsus photographs genuinely capture people at ease in 
the library and feature a range of subjects diverse in age, 
race, and expression. By taking an installation approach, 
Hsus photographs are given content that re?ect his 
social ideas of the importance of libraries, and recreate 
the feeling of a library within the gallery environment. 
His work occupies a comfortable nook and takes a 
literal approach to recreating a library environment, 
highlighting a table, chairs, bookshelf, and couch that 
could have been straight out of Hunt Library. 
The works of the four other photographers take a variety 
of different approaches. A travel photographer for The 
New York Times, Travel, and Leisure, Marsicos project 
titled Age Speci?c focuses on exploring the issues 
confronting the 1960s generation of youth-centric 
ideology over 50 years later by juxtaposing portraits of a 
middle-aged woman with those of an infant.
ONeill, a veteran photojournalist for LIFE magazine 
and the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, and Andrews, an 
award-winning journalist and renowned former staff 
photographer at the White House, also have work in the 
show.
A photographic artist with a contemporary art 
background, Weissbergers work approaches 
photography in an unusual way, creating digital 
photographic collages that distort real objects, 
challenging our ideas of perspective with images that 
generate organic abstractions out of simple subject 
matter.
Taken as a whole, the exhibition demonstrates that in 
spite of the overwhelming role photographs now play 
in a world where everyone has a smartphone and a 
camera, photography can still be a powerful tool when 
pushed to its limits. The idea that a photograph can 
only be a record of the past challenges our obsession 
with self-documentary; taking an installation approach 
shows all the aspects that are lost in the process of 
taking a photograph. Additionally, the role of the fourth 
dimension, time, in understanding the meaning of a 
static image is also addressed as the artists attempt to 
push the media.
The exhibition is a collaborative effort mounted by 
SPACE gallery in collaboration with the Pittsburgh 
Cultural Trust. Behind the Scenes will be showing 
through Jan. 26.
Sarah Moss-Horwitz | StaffwriterSarah Moss-Horwitz | Junior Photographer
The latest exhibition at the SPACE gallery features work by a variety of photographers.
SPACE exhibit packs a photographic punch 
Behind the Scenes showcases emerging photographers with a variety of pieces
Carnegie Mellon adjunct professor of history Leo 
Hsus photo series Free to the People focuses on the 
library as a unique space.
Sarah Moss-Horwitz | Junior Photographer

---------------------------------------------------

community
pillbox 11.18.135
Voice professor juggles teaching, per forming
Aylmer inspires students with enthusiasm for teaching despite constant travel
Last year, the College of Fine Arts gained a new faculty 
member in assistant professor of voice Jennifer Aylmer. 
Born in Long Island, New York City, Aylmer  a soprano 
 grew up wanting to sing, commenting, I always 
wanted to be an entertainer, and music just happens to 
be what I do best. Contrary to what one would assume, 
she did not enter college knowing she wanted to sing 
opera. I discovered there were hundreds of years of 
music that I had not yet thought to discover, and its 
worth discovering, so I ended up in the classical ?eld, 
she said.
After receiving her bachelors degree from the Eastman 
School of Music, Aylmer began her masters degree at 
The Juilliard School. However, she did not complete 
her masters and instead chose to enroll in the Juilliard 
Opera Center, after which she became a young artist at 
the Houston Opera School. 
Eastman was a very intensive academic program, 
Aylmer explained, and I really wanted more 
performance experience.
The experience certainly paid off, as Aylmer successfully 
launched her opera career in 2005 with a debut in Tobias 
Picklers An American Tragedy at the Metropolitan 
Opera in New York City. Aylmer has since performed 
many roles, including Susanna in The Marriage of Figaro, 
Despina in Cosi fan tutte, Berta in The Barber of Seville, 
Gretel in Hansel and Gretel, and Kathie in The Student 
Prince.
Aylmer mainly sings in English and Italian, but she 
enjoys performing in all languages and ?nds Czech to be 
the most dif?cult to sing. When asked which language 
she prefers to hear, Aylmer gave a different response: I 
prefer to listen to great singers singing great operas. 
The life of an opera singer may be taxing, but the life of 
an opera singer who also teaches and holds recitals is 
especially dif?cult. The travel schedule can be really 
grueling, Aylmer said. If youre doing back-to-back 
performances, you may be living out of a suitcase for six, 
seven months at a time. 
In fact, although Aylmer teaches here at Carnegie 
Mellon, she calls Brooklyn, N.Y. home. It is a career of 
constant ?ights and long drives. It can be a lonely life, 
admits Aylmer, but ultimately, it can be really rewarding 
and very ful?lling.
Despite the fact that Aylmer is constantly traveling for 
performances, a handful of Carnegie Mellon students 
have the honor of calling her their teacher. 
I love teaching, I love music, and I love being able to 
share what Ive experienced in my life with the next 
generation of singers. Honestly, discovering repertoire 
through my students is like recharging my artistic 
battery,Aylmer said.
Her students think very highly of her. Campbell 
Rogers, a junior Bachelor of Science and Arts student 
in mathematics and vocal performance (and a mezzosoprano) said, Her talent inspires me to be the best 
student that I can be and learn as much from her as I can 
while Im here.
When she isnt singing in a large-scale performance 
or teaching at Carnegie Mellon, Aylmer holds recitals. 
Alymer gave her latest recital at Carnegie Mellon 
on Nov. 8 in Kresge Theatre, where she performed a 
series of 20th century pieces with composers ranging 
from Eduard Toldr and Richard Strauss to Dmitri 
Shostakovich and Kevin Puts. 
Planning a recital takes a lot of work, Aylmer explained, 
but in many ways, recitals are more fun than operas 
because in a recital, you can just be yourself. You can 
just tell stories that appeal to you. And you can just use 
the words of somebody else to express how you feel.
Aylmer urges her students to say what they want to say 
through both the music and the text when choosing 
their own repertoire. She compares the repertoire of 
a recital to a ?ve-course meal: You want to start with 
something that hits your palate and makes you feel 
good, and then you have a refresher, or a different taste 
experience, and then, before the big protein, you might 
want to have a little soup, a little salad, then you get the 
meat of the program.
Even when she is not acting out a particular persona 
during recitals, Aylmer maintains a fun personality, 
giving character to her songs and leaving an emotional 
impact on the audience. It is often dif?cult to make 
the audience laugh and cry through song, but Aylmer 
certainly managed to do so at her Nov. 8 recital. This 
personality that Aylmer instills in her music is purely her 
own, but she mentions multiple role models who have 
affected her as a singer, including Masako Toribara, a 
former lecturer of voice at Eastman, and Rita Shane, a 
former leading soprano with the Metropolitan Opera.
Overall, Aylmer believes that there are many paths to 
success. For me, I would like to feel ful?lled in what it 
is I am doing at that time. At this stage of my life, I feel 
that Ive earned the right to enjoy my own experiences 
artistically. 
Despite these dif?culties, Aylmer still ?nds time to 
balance family and friends with her musical life. In the 
near future, Aylmer will be singing a recital at Virginia 
Tech, teaching a masterclass at Shenandoah University 
in Virginia and one in Washington, D.C.  and of course, 
working with her students at Carnegie Mellon.
Aline Naroditsky | Junior Staffwriter
Courtesy of Jennifer Aylmer via ADA Artists
Jennifer Aylmer leads a hectic but fulfilling career as both a performer and an assistant professor of voice 
at Carnegie Mellon. Outside the classroom, Aylmer frequently holds recitals, the most recent of which took 
place in Kresge Theatre on Nov. 8. 

---------------------------------------------------

6film
pillbox 11.18.13
With Christmas displays up since two weeks before 
Halloween, the holiday movie season is almost upon 
us a little sooner than usual. The month between 
Thanksgiving and Christmas is one of the biggest 
times of the year for Hollywood, with studios releasing 
everything from Oscar bait to big-budget epics and 
family ?lms. While it may be hard to see everything 
on your list this season, here are a few ?lms that are 
de?nitely worth the trip to the theater.
The Hunger Games: Catching Fire
Nov. 22
The second ?lm adaptation of Suzanne Collinss popular 
book series, The Hunger Games, ?nds Katniss Everdeen 
(Jennifer Lawrence) once again facing seemingly 
insurmountable odds. After winning the 74th Hunger 
Games, she is given little time to rest with next years 
games on the horizon and rebellion brewing in the 
districts. Katniss and her fellow winner, Peeta Mellark 
(Josh Hutcherson), both hope to survive the evergrowing tensions across the post-apocalyptic nation of 
Panem. Featuring a supporting cast including Woody 
Harrelson and Philip Seymour Hoffman that complement 
the youthful leads, The Hunger Games: Catching Fire 
should be a strong continuation of the series.
Inside Llewyn Davis
Dec. 6
Inside Llewyn Davis, the latest release from stellar writer/
director pair Joel and Ethan Coen, focuses on young 
folk singer Llewyn Davis (Oscar Isaac) as he searches 
for guidance and direction amidst the early 1960s 
Greenwich Village folk scene. Based on the life of folk 
singer Dave Van Ronk  who was overshadowed in 
history by friends such as Bob Dylan  the ?lm boasts 
a solid cast that includes Justin Timberlake, Carey 
Mulligan, and John Goodman. If youre looking for a 
peek into this ?lm beyond the trailer, check out the 
already released soundtrack, produced by legend T Bone 
Bur nett, featuring both covers of folk songs from the era 
as well as original material.
Saving Mr. Banks
Dec. 13
Saving Mr. Banks tells the story of how Walt Disney (Tom 
Hanks) convinced author P.L. Travers (Emma Thompson) 
to sign over the ?lm rights to her beloved character 
Mary Poppins, which she did with great reluctance 
that eventually turned to great regret. While the Disney 
Companys hand in the making of the movie may be 
a sign that there will be heavy Walt Disney worship 
and multiple scenes that inexplicably take place at 
Disneyland, the ?lm has already garnered a lot of early 
acclaim. Featuring a supporting cast that includes Paul 
Giamatti, Jason Schwartzman, and Colin Farrell, Saving 
Mr. Banks may just be the childlike tug your heartstrings 
will need this holiday season.
Her
Dec. 18
Written and directed by Hollywood iconoclast Spike 
Jonze, Her tells the story of Theodore Twombly (Joaquin 
Phoenix), a lonely man who falls in love with the female 
voice (Scarlett Johansson) from an advanced computer 
operating system. Jonze, whose previous ?lms include 
Adaptation, Being John Malkovich, and Where the Wild 
Things Are, has a certain knack for telling these kinds 
of quirky tales, and Her will mark his solo screenwriting 
debut. In addition, the ?lms soundtrack comes courtesy 
of none other than indie rock icons Arcade Fire, 
solidifying Hers stance as the most indie movie youll 
see this holiday season.
Anchorman 2: The Legend Continues
Dec. 20
Its been nine years, but the Channel 4 News Team is 
lathering on the Sex Panther and downing a last glass 
of scotch to return for a new adventure. Details are 
hush-hush, but the sequel, once again written by star 
Will Ferrell and director Adam McKay, will see the return 
of the original cast as well as a nearly endless list of 
supporting roles and cameos that includes Kanye West, 
Sacha Baron Cohen, and Harrison Ford. Among the 
?lms to be released this holiday season, none looks more 
fun than Anchorman 2. Look for this ?lm to shed a little 
afternoon delight on otherwise bleak winter days.
The Wolf of Wall Street
Dec. 25
Based on the memoir of the same name, The Wolf of Wall 
Street is the story of how young Jordan Belfort (Leonardo 
DiCaprio) fell under the spell of the bustling 90s Wall 
Street, started a trading ?rm called Stratton Oakmont, 
made millions using highly illegal trading schemes, 
and thought he was utterly invincible throughout. As 
anyone would probably guess, the FBI wasnt quite 
as taken in by his charm as others were. With the 
dream team of DiCaprio, director Martin Scorsese (The 
Departed, Goodfellas), and a screenplay by Boardwalk 
Empire creator Terence Winter  as well as a stellar 
supporting cast that includes Jonah Hill and Matthew 
McConaughey  The Wolf of Wall Street promises the 
sky and will most likely deliver. If you can only see one 
movie this holiday season, it should be this one.
Joey Peiser | Assistant Pillbox Editor
November launches holiday ?lm season 
Dont miss these upcoming movie highlights, from indies to Oscar potentials to family ?lms
Courtesy of Gage Skidmore via Flickr
Josh Hutcherson (left) and Jennifer Lawrence promote 
one of the most highly anticipated film releases this 
season, The Hunger Games: Catching Fire.

---------------------------------------------------

film
pillbox 11.18.137
Warning: This article contains spoilers for Thor, The 
Avengers, and Thor: The Dark World.
 
If you go to see Thor: The Dark World, prepare to get 
hammered by stunning visuals and intense action 
sequences. The newest Marvel ?lm, a sequel to 2011s 
Thor, was released last Friday.
The ?lm follows Thor (Chris Hemsworth), a character 
based on the Norse god of thunder, and his mortal love 
Jane Foster (Natalie Portman) as they ?ght the forces of 
Malekith (Christopher Eccleston), the Dark Elf. Malekith 
is after a force known as the Aether, which Jane 
accidentally gets tangled up in when the boundaries 
between the nine realms of the universe are weakened.
A large part of the ?lm takes place on Asgard, Thors 
home, which provides a beautiful backdrop and a 
welcome change from the almost entirely Earth-bound 
Marvel universe. Asgard is ?lled with ?owing water and 
grand buildings, all set against the vast expanse of outer 
space.
The story is pretty straightforward with requisite action 
sequences peppered throughout. The events all lead 
up to a phenomenon called the convergence, when the 
gateways to each of the nine realms line up and become 
visible to the eye.
In addition, weak spots in the boundaries will transport 
anything that goes through them to another realm. 
These weak spots make the ?nal battle especially 
exciting: Thor battles Malekith while they tumble and 
fall through random portals into the other realms.
While the premise of this ?lm is stronger than its 
predecessors, the story is halting at points because 
there is almost too much going on at once. Odd lines 
of dialogue end scenes awkwardly and a hint at a love 
triangle is never ?eshed out or directly addressed.
On that note, although the romance between Thor and 
Jane sets the action in motion, theres no real depth to 
the relationship. For all the screen time the pair has, they 
never address the major issue between them: the fact 
that Jane is mortal and Thor will live for thousands of 
years.
Granted, they are in the midst of ?ghting evil, but 
everyone else around Thor brings it up, from his 
estranged brother Loki (Tom Hiddleston), to his father 
Odin (Anthony Hopkins), to his friend and implied love 
interest Sif (Jaimie Alexander).
Exposition is another subtle problem throughout the ?lm. 
At the end of Thor, the Bifrst, a bridge between the 
various realms, is destroyed, trapping Thor in Asgard 
and separating him from Jane.
Thor was then seen in The Avengers, with no 
explanation as to how he got there or whether the Bifrst 
had been repaired. He did not reconnect with his lover 
until the beginning of The Dark World, and only then it 
was because he feared for her safety. Furthermore, there 
was almost no explanation as to how the Bifrst was 
repaired  only that Thor and his friends were ?ghting 
battles to restore order.
Too much exposition can kill a story, but perhaps a little 
more in the ?lm would clear up a major question. The 
?lmmakers could have replaced the ill-conceived love 
triangle with something that clari?ed or even furthered 
the story.
Acting-wise, Hiddleston stole the show again, portraying 
the trickster Loki with an electrifying mix of vulnerability 
and aggression. In one particularly memorable scene, 
Loki and Thor ?ght just like normal brothers, and Lokis 
sharp wit matches each of Thors barbs.
Hemsworth excellently portrays Thors strength and 
?ghting skills and transitions to more emotional scenes 
fairly well. Because he has chemistry with Portman, the 
?lmmakers could have played up the relationship a little 
more, ?eshing out who they are as a couple, since they 
havent actually had any time to do so.
Portman has a more challenging role than in the previous 
?lm, since she is suddenly thrust into another realm, 
but she fails to instill any reaction to this change in 
her character. Upon ?rst stepping into Asgard, Jane 
seems unfazed by the glowing rainbow bridge and vast 
kingdom that lies in front of her.
In a ?lm in which not everything is quite what it 
seems, one of the highlights is a characters surprise 
appearance. It stayed under wraps very well, and is a 
nice nod to previous Marvel ?lms. Make sure to stay 
through all of the credits so you dont miss either of 
Marvels trademark bonus scenes.
Thor: The Dark World is a hearty sequel, serving up equal 
parts drama and action and even a bit of lighthearted 
humor at points. While imperfect, it proves to be 
entertaining enough for viewers to leave them on the 
edge of their seats, waiting for the next installment.
Mairad Pettit | Staffwriter
Thor 2 offers dazzling visuals, problematic plot
The newest Marvel ?lm surpasses its predecessor in many ways, but still has issues
Andie Park | Staffwriter
The Way Way Back
Friday, Nov. 22
7:30 10
This coming-of-age story is about a teenage boy forced to go on a road trip with his 
family. Think youve seen this a million times before? Think again. The Way Way Back 
twists the traditionally overwrought narrative of the teenager and makes it funny and 
heartwarming. What starts out as an overbearing and obligatory family trip for 14-yearold Duncan (Liam James), his mother (Toni Collette), and her not-so-friendly boyfriend 
(Steve Carrell) becomes a summer Duncan will never forget. Filled with incredible 
charm from its cast as well as its genuinely witty script, The Way Way Back is a fresh 
trip back to our younger years.
Elysium
Saturday, Nov. 23
7:30 10
Its the year 2154, and the world is in ruins. Overpopulated and riddled with crime, 
Earth has become a dystopian hellhole for the majority of the human race, while the 
top tier has relocated to the pristine man-made station called Elysium, where health 
and wealth are reserved for the elite. The people of Earth are desperate for health care 
and hope to escape their seemingly hopeless world until an ordinary citizen named 
Max (Matt Damon) emerges as their one chance to bring justice. From the visionary 
director of District 9, Neill Blomkamp, Elysium is ?lled with jaw-dropping images 
and thrills that surpass the traditional blockbuster archetype by becoming a relevant 
commentary on current political arguments. Damon carries this heavy-handed ?lm, 
making it entertaining and eye-opening.
McConomy Auditorium, University Centerdollarmovie 

---------------------------------------------------

feature
pillbox 11.18.1398feature
pillbox 11.18.13
Everyone has that one family member who is a few cents 
short of a dollar, or is a little eccentric. Imagine having 
an entire family like that  and then bringing your 
boyfriend home to meet them. 
The shenanigans that ensue are the subject and source 
of hilarity of George S. Kaufman and Moss Harts 
You Cant Take It With You, a Pulitzer Prize-winning 
American play being performed in the Philip Chosky 
Theater in the Purnell Center for the Arts.
Despite the fact that Kaufman is a Pittsburgh native, 
this play has not been performed on Carnegie Mellons 
campus since 1947. However, as director Barbara 
Mackenzie-Wood said, When Peter Cooke asked for 
suggestions for the 201314 season, a year to be spent in 
celebration of the School of Dramas 100-year anniversary 
and the very best of classic American drama, my ?rst 
thought was that such an undertaking would not be 
complete without the inclusion of Kaufman and Harts 
You Cant Take It With You. It is the classic American 
comedy.
Seeing as the house was packed with a raucous 
audience at this Saturdays matinee performance, 
Mackenzie-Woods choice was well founded.
Written in 1936 at the tail end of the Great Depression, 
You Cant Take It With You is the heartwarming story of 
the pandemonium of Alices eccentric family meeting 
her ?ancs uptight parents. In a time when scarcity was 
the norm, Alices family is more concerned with simple 
joys than an accumulation of wealth. 
As the the program says, The play was  and is  a 
slap in the face to the mentality of depression and 
defeat.
While the entire cast puts on an excellent performance, 
certain characters stand out. From the moment the 
curtain rises, senior acting major Rachel Keller is 
delightful in her role as Penny, a loving mother who 
enjoys expressing her artistic side and has been writing 
plays ever since a typewriter was accidentally delivered 
to the house. Keller brings her own personal touch to 
the character, capturing viewers attention and making 
them laugh with her quirky mannerisms and well-timed 
in?ections. The onstage chemistry between Penny and 
the other family members makes her the cohesive force 
of the family and a pleasant character to watch.
The character that truly embodies the message of 
You Cant Take It With You is Martin Vanderhof, more 
affectionately known as Grandpa. Senior musical 
theater major Joey Ventricelli gives a thought-provoking 
performance while maintaining the comedic tone of 
the play. Even though he is surrounded by amusing 
antics, Grandpa manages to keep pace with the younger 
members of his family through quick, witty quips.
It was a lot of hard work, very technical, dated. I had 
to do a lot of research to understand the references that 
were made in the jokes. But overall it was so much fun to 
bring this era to life to a modern audience. It was a fun 
show to be a part of, Ventricelli said.
An equally comical yet more ?amboyant character is 
Boris Kolenkhov, an ostentatious ex-Soviet turned ballet 
teacher, brought to life by senior musical theater major 
Michael McGuire. McGuire enlivens the character with 
his spot-on Russian accent, animated gestures, and 
energized delivery. He had the audience enraptured 
and roaring in laughter, especially in his interactions 
School of Drama puts on a classic American comedy in You Cant Take It With You
The ongoing School of Drama centennial production features a stellar cast of senior acting and musical theater students, who rose to the challenge of playing 30s-era characters
School of Drama students portray an eccentric range of characters in You Cant Take It With You. Pictured from left is Alices 
brother-in-law Ed (Mitch Marois), his wife Essie (Michelle Veintimilla), Essies ballet teacher Boris (Michael McGuire), and Boriss 
friend Olga (Claire Saunders).
                Courtesy of Dennis Schebetta
by Jenna Bodnar | Junior Staffwriter[]
with endearing Essie (senior acting major Michelle 
Veintimilla), his aspiring acolyte.
[The play] was much tougher than you might think 
because it seems so easy but its so precise, McGuire 
said. Its the hardest play Ive had to do. Its pretty 
special.
Senior acting major Claire Chapelli, playing the character 
of snobby, uptight Mrs. Kirby, also saw the task as 
daunting yet rewarding. The rehearsal process was 
challenging because everything was so speci?c, but it 
was great to see it on stage and hear the audience laugh. 
The audience is really like another character, she said.
Chapelli also mentioned that the props and sets used for 
this production stay true to the original. The elaborate 
and colorful sets solidify the late 1930s air  so much so 
that they elicited applause from the audience when the 
curtain ?rst rose.
In addition to the period set and props, the experience of 
seeing the play hearkens back to the decade in which it 
was originally written and produced. The disembodied 
voice of a cast member brings the audience into this 
era with a time-period-appropriate introduction, asking 
viewers to take note of the ?re exits and turn off all cell 
phones in true 1930s jargon. Furthermore, jazz music 
serenades the crowd as the scenes transition from one to 
the next. 
Mackenzie-Wood decided to present this revival as 
closely as possible to what audiences might have 
seen at the Booth Theater in New York City in 1936 in 
the seventh year of the Great Depression in order to 
preserve the timelessness of You Cant Take It With You. 
Despite the large gap between decades, the cast and 
crew have created a truly cohesive experience of the 
time period.
McGuire found putting on a comedy to be a welcome 
change to the typically darker, more somber repertoire 
of the School of Drama, giving the 100-year celebration a 
well-rounded selection.
Senior musical theater major Mitch Marois, who played 
Essies husband Ed, agreed, saying, The play is 
heartwarming with a distinct style. It is a good contrast 
to The Crucible. The decision to add something 
different to the usual lineup adds timely variety to the 
School of Dramas selection for the 100-year anniversary.
The Carnegie Mellon University School of Dramas 
performance of You Cant Take It With You is a 
professionally executed production of a timeless 
American piece. The acting is convincing, inducing 
both slapstick humor and leaving the audience with 
a bit of food for thought. The characters ?amboyant 
actions and the ornate sets provide visually stimulating 
entertainment. It is successful across the board, crafting 
both an accurate portrayal of Great Depression era 
America and a loveable, quirky family with which 
audiences can relate. 
You Cant Take It With You will run through Saturday at
Chosky Theater.
The Great Depression
The world of You Cant Take It 
With You is heavily grounded in the 
struggles of the Great Depression. 
Beginning with the infamous stock 
market crash of 1929, the Depression 
left one in four Americans jobless 
and sti?ed the nations once-growing 
economy. 
1933 was the single worst year of 
the Depression, with Americas 
gross domestic product at a level 
half of what it had been four years 
earlier. However, also that year was 
the election of the man who would 
give the country hope, Franklin 
Delano Roosevelt. Roosevelt created 
a multitude of new programs and 
agencies that put Americans back to 
work as part of his New Deal. 
By the outbreak of World War II in 
1941, America was almost completely 
back on its feet, with much of the 
New Deal legislation to thank for it. 
The Roosevelt administration thus 
?gured prominently into the daily 
lives of many Americans, a fact given 
signi?cant attention in You Cant 
Take It With You.
Cast of Characters
Grandpa: Joe Ventricelli
Penny: Rachel Keller
Alice: Zanny Laird
Tony: Chris Douglass
Paul: Carl Lundstedt
Essie: Michelle Veintimilla
Ed: Mitch Marois
Mr. DePinna: Antonio Marziale
Kolenkhov: Michael McGuire
Henderson/G-Man: Joe Mendick
Mr. Kirby: Jacob Vine
Mrs. Kirby: Claire Chapelli
Rheba: Nicky Robles
Donald: Jordan Phillips
Ms. Wellington/Olga: Claire 
Saunders
G-Man: Sam French
G-Man: Patrick Zakem

---------------------------------------------------

10fake
pillbox 11.18.13
To purchase tickets, visit pittsburghsymphony.org/university or call 412.392.4900.
TICKETS 
START
AT $15
Party music from the 19th century.
A Waltz Tradition November 29 & December 1, Heinz Hall
Waltzes and polkas from the 19th century are celebrated today as a part of our modern culture. Join us 
as The Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra and music director Manfred Honeck present lively works from 
Supp, Beethoven and Strauss, with guest pianist Till Fellner. Whether youre with the whole family or 
a group of friends, A Waltz Tradition is a great way to celebrate the Thanksgiving season in Pittsburgh. 
Title Sponsor
13SYM085_Tartan_9.667x10.625_FINAL.indd   111/13/13   5:49 PM

---------------------------------------------------

comics
pillbox 11.18.1311
Piled Higher and Deeper by Jorge Cham
jorge@phdcomics.comphdcomics.com
Hark, A Vagrant by Kate Beaton
kathrynmoira@gmail.comharkavagrant.com

---------------------------------------------------

12comics
pillbox 11.18.13
Email Signatures by Doghouse Diaries
doghousediaries@gmail.comthedoghousediaries.com
Poorly Drawn Lines by Reza Farazmand
poorlydrawnlines@gmail.compoorlydrawnlines.com

---------------------------------------------------

puzzles
pillbox 11.18.1313
Solutions from Nov. 11
CrosswordHard DifficultyMedium Difficulty
Kakuro Puzzle: Hard Difficulty Sudoku Puzzle: Easy Difficulty
Sudoku courtesy of
www.opensky.ca/~jdhildeb/software/sudokugen/Kakuro courtesy of www.KrazyDad.com
Fill all empty squares using numbers 1 to 9 so the sum of 
each row equals the clue on its left, and the sum of each 
column equals the clue above it. No number may be used 
in the same row or column more than once.

---------------------------------------------------

14horoscopes
pillbox 11.18.13
1. Part of MIT
2. Dont look at me!
3. Horse of mixed color
4. PC panic button
5. Supported
6. Sworn thing
7. Daughter of Cadmus
8. Lip cosmetic
9. Disinfectant brand
10. Japanese porcelain
11. Light purple
12. OPEC member
14. Grommet
22. Calendar abbr.
24. Sentrys shout
25. Hog
26. ___ uproar
27. Examine, search
28. Basic monetary unit of Greece
29. Adjoin
32. ___ the season...
33. Pineapple fiber
34. San Franciscos ___ Tower
35. Woodys boy
36. Suggestive look
38. Liable to be contradicted
39. Invitation letters
42. To a smaller extent
43. Naked-faced Amazon monkey
45. Fix, as a shoe
46. European name for a moose
47. Actress Davis
48. Praying figure
49. Big rigs
51. Streetcar
52. Has a bug
53. Not ___ many words
54. Describe
55. Child support?
58. Youve got mail co.
60. LAX posting
1. As to
5. Vaporize
9. Taylor of Mystic Pizza
13. Gallows loop
15. Title bestowed upon the wife 
of a raja
16. Primordial giant in Norse myth
17. Actor Keach
18. At the apex of
19. Room in a casa
20. Like some ears
21. ____-a-Sketch
23. System of aircraft navigation
25. Swing around
26. Sloping letter
27. Kelp
30. Latin word meaning nothing
31. Ancient linear unit
32. Pertaining to tactics
37. Give ___ for ones money
38. Imbibe
40. Achy
41. Unnoticed
43. Functional
44. Ltr. holder
45. Real-estate dealer
47. Idle talk
50. Actress Sommer
51. Mother of Calcutta
52. ___ silly question...
53. Class
56. 500 sheets
57. Scott of Charles in Charge
59. Kidney enzyme
61. Years in old Rome
62. Lounge
63. Whos there? reply
64. Floor coverings
65. Ultimatum word
66. Completed
ACROSSDOWN
Horoscopes
aries
march 21april 19
You should always try to bend the rules, but some might 
break easier than others.
taurus
april 20may 20
A true magician never reveals his secrets.
gemini
may 21june 21
The answers you have been searching for will suddenly 
appear.
cancer
june 22july 22
The tighter you hold onto sand, the faster it slips through 
your fingers.
leo
july 23aug. 22 
Dont question whether the things happening to you are real 
or not; just enjoy them.
virgo
aug. 23sept. 22
Sometimes it all comes down to who you know, not what 
you know.
libra
sept. 23oct. 22
Dont be disappointed if you fail to reach your goals  you 
set your standards too high.
scorpio
oct. 23nov. 21
Youre past the worst. Now you can relax.
sagittarius
nov. 22dec. 21
Stop being so restless, and be glad you get to do 
something important.
capricorn
dec. 22jan. 19
Its time to put your needs before the needs of others.
aquarius
jan. 20feb. 18
When you feel average, just remember that the combination 
of things that had to happen for you to exist is unique.
pisces
feb. 19march 20
Dont get too caught up in the details or you might miss the 
big picture.
Kairavi Chahal | Comics Editor
Crossword courtesy of BestCrosswords.com

---------------------------------------------------

calendar 
pillbox 11.18.1315
MONDAY11.18.13
Israel Centeno Reading and Q & A. Porter Hall A18A. 
4:30 p.m.
Venezuelan writer Israel Centeno has been a writer-inresidence at the Pittsburgh branch of City of Asylum since 
2011. Centeno will read from Criaturas de la noche, his 
collection of short stories, and his novel, Bajo las Hojas. 
The reading will be presented in Spanish with a bilingual 
English and Spanish Q & A session to follow.
Movie Screening: Inequality for All. 
McConomy Auditorium. 5:15 p.m.
Jacob Kornbluths documentary Inequality for All explores 
widening income inequality in the United States. In 
particular, the ?lm focuses on Robert Reich  a professor 
at the University of California, Berkeley and former Labor 
Secretary under President Clinton  who has made a 
lifelong commitment to building a just economy.
School of Architecture Series. Carnegie Lecture Hall. 
6:30 p.m.
Witold Rybczynski, professor emeritus at the University 
of Pennsylvania and award-winning writer on architecture 
and urbanism, will give a talk titled How Architecture 
Works.
WEDNESDAY11.20.13
The Nina Variations. Helen Wayne Rauh Studio Theater, 
Purnell Center for the Arts. 8 p.m.
The School of Drama presents The Nina Variations, 
Steven Dietzs contemporary interpretation of the 
?nal scene between lovers Nina and Treplev in Anton 
Chekhovs The Seagull. Performances will take place 
Wednesday through Saturday this week. Student 
discounts are available.
THURSDAY11.21.13
The Curated Arts Experience. Hamburg Hall 1001. 
Noon.
Ceci Dadisman, director of marketing and public relations 
at the Palm Beach Opera, will speak as part of the 
Masters of Arts Management (MAM) Lecture Series. In 
a talk titled The Curated Arts Experience, Dadisman 
will discuss how to harness the intersection of social 
media and technology with arts experiences to enhance 
audience engagement.
SATURDAY11.23.13
Bhangra in the Burgh. Soldiers & Sailors Memorial Hall. 
6:30 p.m.
The annual bhangra competition comes to Pittsburgh 
once again for a colorful display of the Punjabi folk dance. 
Student tickets are $10. 
ONGOING
You Cant Take It With You. Phillip Chosky Theater, 
Purnell Center for the Arts. Through Saturday.
The School of Drama presents You Cant Take It With 
You, a 1937 Pulitzer-Prize-winning screwball comedy 
set against the backdrop of the Great Depression and 
directed by Raymond W. Smith Professor of Drama 
Barbara MacKenzie-Wood. When two lovers from very 
different backgrounds introduce their families  one 
free-spirited and one conservative  a series of hilarious 
events ensues. Discounts are available for students.
Alien She. Miller Gallery (Purnell Center for the Arts). 
Through Feb. 16.
This exhibit examines the in?uence of Riot Grrrl, an 
underground feminist punk rock movement that surfaced 
in the 90s, on artists and cultural producers today. For 
more information, visit millergallery.cfa.cmu.edu.
2013 Carnegie International. Carnegie Museum of Art. 
Through March 16.
The biennial Carnegie International brings the world art 
scene to Pittsburgh in a large exhibition of diverse works. 
This years exhibition features 35 artists and represents 19 
countries. For more information, visit cmoa.org.
Compiled by Rachel Cohen | Pillbox Editor
Want your event here?
Email calendar@thetartan.org.
sun   mon  tue  wed   thr     fri   satBirth control 
+ 
Obamacare 
=
No longer a 
burdened expense for 
a woman or a couple.
Planned Parenthood of Western Pennsylvania
1.800.230.PLAN    
  www.ppwp.org

---------------------------------------------------

16gallery
pillbox 11.18.13
Jason Chen | Staff Photographer
The Treblemakers, Carnegie Mellons newest coed a cappella group, 
performed at Skibo Caf on Thursday evening in an event hosted by 
AB Skibo. Sophomore chemical engineering major Adam Simpson 
(pictured above) wailed a solo for the audience.
a cappella.
