FORUMSPORTSPILLBOX
Carnegie Mellons student newspaper since 1906
wats:ON? 2013 ?lls CFA with NOISE  B8Men place second, women third in quad meet  A10Students should use counseling resources  A7
thetartan.org
@thetartan
April 8, 2013
Volume 107, Issue 23
MacGillivray and Masters win electionCMU admits most selective class yet 
LAUREN WILLIAMS
Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellon received 
a record number of applications for the incoming class 
of 2017.
According to Director of 
Admission Michael Steidel, 
18,879 applications were 
submitted, a 9 percent increase from the 17,313 applications sent in last year. 
A fewer number of students, 
however, were accepted. The 
total number of students admitted for the class of 2017 is 
at present only 4,662, down 
from the 4,807 at the end of 
last year. 
This is a 25 percent acceptance rate, which is lower 
than the 28 percent acceptance rate for the class of 
2016. Wait-list activity is expected to begin after May 1.
Applications to Carnegie 
Mellon rose to record levels 
again this seasonmaking the selection process the 
most dif?cult and challenging in our history, Steidel 
said. 
We received so many 
great applications from the 
best candidates weve ever 
seen in our admission process. It has been dif?cult, at 
best, to choose from among 
so many talented young people.
Steidel also noted that 
the average SAT scores of accepted students for the class 
of 2017 were all signi?cantly 
above average. 
The average SAT math 
score was 750, while the 
average SAT critical reading and writing scores were 
slightly lower at 710 and 720, 
respectively. 
All average scores were 
higher than the previous 
years, which was 744 for 
SAT math, 706 for SAT critical reading, and 715 for SAT 
writing. 
Additionally, the average 
unweighted GPA was 3.82, 
an increase from 3.80 last 
year.
Sophomore mechanical 
engineering major Victor 
Naziazeni said, Its pretty 
cool. I always thought that 
CMU is an incredible school, 
and I feel that our acceptance 
rate puts us lower in the rankings than we deserve to be. 
So a drop in acceptance rate 
is something good for the 
schools reputation.
Fellow sophomore mechanical engineering major 
Gianfranco Colombi added, 
I think these statistics just 
prove what hard workers we 
are to everyone else.
Additionally, 47 percent 
of the recently admitted students are women, a slight 
increase from 46 percent last 
year. 
This is, however, a signi?cantly higher percentage 
than that of the overall student body ratio of 57 percent 
male and 43 percent female.
There was also an increase 
in the percentage of international students admitted  
14 percent compared to 12 
percent for the class of 2016. 
The same percentage, 
however, of under-represented ethnic minorities were 
admitted as last year  16 
percent.
Were extremely proud 
of the talents, abilities, character, and academic quality 
of those we chose to join us 
as freshmen next fall. Were 
excited to learn who will ultimately make the decision 
to become a Tartan, Steidel 
said.Beta responds to suspension, allegations
BRENT HEARD 
News Co-Editor
CHLOE THOMPSON
Personnel Manager
As part of a continuing 
investigation into the recent 
suspension of the Beta Theta 
Pi fraternity on campus, of?-
cial statements from the local 
chapter and national organization of Beta Theta Pi have 
been released. 
It was also con?rmed that 
the Carnegie Mellon University Andrew distribution 
list was utilized for the alleged circulation of explicit 
materials.
An email sent by Panhellenic Council representitves to 
members of the Kappa Kappa 
Gamma sorority was anonymously forwarded to The 
Tartan. 
The email con?rmed the 
suspension of Beta Theta Pi, 
as well as the explicit nature 
of the photos and videos, and 
that they were circulated on 
Betas distribution list.
 Monica McGee, university 
coordinator of fraternity and 
sorority life, was cited in the 
email as having provided this 
information.
Beta Theta Pi fraternity 
activity was suspended as they 
are currently under university 
and police investigation. This 
investigation is regarding photos of both men and women, 
explicit in nature, that have 
been circulated on their dlist, read the email, which 
then went on to list resources 
for concerned sorority members to contact with questions 
or concerns about the issue.
President of Carnegie Mellons chapter of Beta Theta Pi 
Robert Winkelman emailed 
the following statement to 
The Tartan: Our chapter is 
cooperating with Carnegie 
Mellon University of?cials and 
law enforcement during the 
current investigation regarding the alleged activities of a 
few individual members within our chapter. The leadership 
in our chapter is continuing to 
collaborate both with University Police and university of?-
cials throughout this process.
Given the nature of the investigation - and due process 
and privacy rights that are to 
be afforded to all parties involved - we will reserve providing additional commentary until University Police 
and Carnegie Mellon University have both completed their 
efforts, Winkelman said.
Martin Cobb, the director 
of communication for Beta 
Theta Pi fraternity, wrote in 
an email to The Tartan, The 
fraternity supports the universitys position and recent 
statements, as we are working 
together collaboratively on 
this investigation. 
Given the nature of the 
investigation - and due process and privacy rights that 
are to be afforded all parties 
involved - the fraternity will 
reserve providing additional 
commentary until the University and General Fraternity 
have both completed their efforts, the email continued.
Emails discussing the police investigation and the suspension of Beta Theta Pi were 
sent out by both Dean of Student Af?ars Gina Casalegno 
and University President Jared Cohon two weeks ago. 
The university has declined to comment further on 
the incident.
Verbeke lectures on changes in European design education
ALVIN MATHEW
Staffwriter
Johan Verbeke, a professor 
from the Sint-Lucas School of 
Architecture (LUCA) in Belgium, presented the lecture 
Developments in Higher 
Education in Europe and its 
impact on arts, architecture 
and design, last Thursday in 
Porter Hall.
Verbeke served as the Head 
of the School at LUCA from 
2003 to 2009. He noted that 
LUCA at the moment has over 
2,000 students, not only in architecture but also in design, 
so its one big entity. 
The school is very well 
known for having a strong 
design competence. Verbeke 
has held various positions 
throughout his career, including project leader at the European Association of Architectural Education.
 Verbeke focused his lecture on developments in European higher education and the 
effects of those developments.
Student reaction to the lecture was positive. Liza Otto, a 
?rst-year Bachelor of Humanities and Arts student, said, It 
was interesting to see him talk 
about how the whole system 
was reorganized.
Verbeke spoke of the Bologna declaration, a major document created in June 1999 
during the Bologna Process, 
which sought to enhance and 
clarify the quali?cations and 
standards of Europes higher 
education process. 
The declaration mainly 
was to put forward the system of two main cycles, where 
access to the second cycle requires completion of the ?rst 
cycle. 
The ?rst cycle has a minimum of three years, and 
completion of the ?rst cycle 
should also be relevant to the 
European labor markets as an 
appropriate level of quali?cation. The second cycle should 
lead to the masters and doctoral degree in European 
countries.
He noted that after the 
adoption of the Bologna declaration, the European Association for Architectural Evidence (EEAE), came to the 
consensus that in order to enter the profession, at least ?ve 
years of education is required. 
So it more or less neglects 
the requirement or advice to 
have a level of quali?cation of 
three years. Years after the 
Bologna declaration, in 2005 
Verbeke stated that three cycles of quali?cations were established: A basic bachelors 
degree of three years, then a 
more advanced masters degree of two years, then a Ph.D. 
degree of two years, which 
stimulates time towards mastery of methods with the ?eld 
and research efforts.
He went on to say, there 
are different levels to make 
scienti?c judgments: On the 
 Courtesy of Alex Webster 
Lindsay MacGillivray and Peter Masters won the election for student body president and vice president, taking 
72.64 percent of the vote.
Kate Groschner/Photo Editor
Professor Johan Verbeke described the higher educational process in European design and art schools.See EDUCATION, A3
See ELECTIONS, A3
Annette Ko/Art Editor
NOL UM
News Co-Editor
Junior biology and psychology double major Lindsay 
MacGillivray and sophomore 
international relations and 
politics and environmental 
policy double major Peter 
Masters will succeed senior 
economics and statistics and 
decision science double major 
Will Weiner and senior professional and creative writing 
double major Meela Dudley 
as student body president and 
student body vice president, 
respectively, for the next academic year.
MacGillivray and Masters won by a landslide, taking 72.64 percent of the vote 
over their opponents, junior 
mechanical engineering 
and engineering and public 
policy double major Thomas 
Healy and junior business 
administration major Caitlin 
Jones, who garnered 24.39 
percent of the vote according 
to the student government 
elections website. 
Jalen Poteat, a sophomore 
statistics major, was elected 
student body vice president 
for ?nance and junior psychology major Corinne Rockoff 
was elected student body vice 
president for organizations.
17.5 percent of the student 
body population participated 
in the student government 
elections; 29.85 percent of 
the undergraduate student 
body and 3.34 percent of the 
graduate student body voted.
MacGillivray and Masters 
hope to achieve their platform initiatives through their 
ABC program.
A stands for aided access, which includes extending communication between 
current and future leadership. 
B stands for bridging The 
Bridge, by focusing on organizations and creating a centralized events calendar. C 
stands for CMU loves; Macgillivray and Masters hope to 
implement initiatives that can 
improve student happiness 
and alleviate stress culture. 
They also plan on implementing more vegetarian options on campus, as that was 
one of the most requested 
suggestions from the student 
body.
Were looking to make 
CMU more fun, and in general, making sure more things 
are available on campus, 
MacGillivray said.
MacGillivray and Masters 
hope to create an overall sense 
of school pride by connecting 
organizations. 
There are also a lot of organizations that are proud of 
what they do, not necessarily CMU pride but like Buggy 
pride or this pride or that 
pride. But we think that by 

---------------------------------------------------

A2  thetartan.org/news The Tartan  April 8, 2013
Corrections & Clari?cations
If you would like to submit a correction or clari?cation, 
please email The Tartan at news@thetartan.org or 
editor@thetartan.org with your inquiry, as well as the 
date of the issue and the name of the article. We will 
print the correction or clari?cation in the next print 
issue and publish it online.
NEWS IN BRIEF
I <3 Female Orgasm excites audience
WEATHER
Alcohol Amnesty
March 30, 2013
Univeristy Police and CMU 
EMS responded to the Margaret Morrison Apartments after an intoxicated female was 
seen stumbling on Margaret 
Morrison Street. The female 
was transported to the hospital for further treatment. Alcohol Amnesty applies to this 
incident.
Hit and Run 
March 30, 2013
A silver sedan struck a 
Carnegie Mellon shuttle bus 
while it was traveling on Fifth 
Avenue. The occupants of the 
sedan ?ed the scene but were 
later identi?ed by University 
Police. 
Hit and run charges may 
be ?led pending the completion of the investigation. No 
one was injured during the 
accident.
DUI Arrest
March 31, 2013
A University Police of?cer 
on patrol observed a vehicle 
run the red light at Forbes Avenue and South Craig Street. 
The of?cer conducted a 
traf?c stop, which resulted 
in the arrest of the driver for 
driving under the in?uence of 
alcohol. The driver was also 
charged for the red light violation. 
Noise Complaint 
April 1, 2013
University Police responded to two noise complaints 
about music being played at 
The Fence. An of?cer met the 
members of the Sigma Chi fraternity, who were playing music with prior permission. The 
members of Sigma Chi agreed 
to turn the music down and 
continue to monitor the volume.
De?ant Trespass/ 
Harassment 
April 2, 2013
University Police were 
summoned to the CulinArt 
of?ce in reference to a terminated employee sending 
threatening text messages to 
his former supervisors. 
The male is being issued 
a de?ant trespass notice and 
of?cers are interviewing the 
victims of the threatening 
text messages to determine if 
charges will be ?led.
Disorderly Conduct 
April 2, 2013
A student is being cited 
for disorderly conduct after a 
University Police of?cer on patrol found the male lurking in 
the grass area located next to 
Mudge House B Tower. 
The male was observed 
looking into various windows. 
The police stopped the male, 
who admitted to trying to get 
the attention of his ex-girlfriend by peering through her 
window.
FMS Theft
April 3, 2013
University Police were 
summoned to Morewood Gardens regarding the theft of 
over $1,000 in tools being stolen from one of the Mule Carts 
located in the D Tower garage. 
This investigation is ongoing.
Campus Crime & Incident Reports
Jonathan Carreon/Contributing Editor
The sexual education event I <3 Female Orgasm spoke to a variety of students last Tuesday, creating an event that aimed to combine humor and 
educational content. Organized by Ms. CMU, the event discussed sexual topics in an amusing but tasteful manner. 
Source: www.weather.com
FEATURE PHOTO
The Richard King Mellon 
foundation recently donated 
$30 million to Carnegie Mellon directed to expand energy research, education, and 
innovation. 
The gift, which is the largest private foundation grant 
in Carnegie Mellons history, 
will aid the Wilton E. Scott 
Institute for Energy Innovation in its goals of improving 
energy ef?ciency and developing new, clean, affordable, and sustainable energy 
sources.
We are deeply grateful 
to the Richard King Mellon 
Foundation for this generous 
gift, President Jared Cohon 
said in a university press release. Developing sustainable energy solutions is of 
fundamental importance for 
America and for the world, 
and this gift will play a key 
role in helping the university 
and the Scott Institute solve 
some of our most important 
energy challenges.
Funds from the grant will 
be used to support various 
energy research projects and 
the construction of the Sherman and Joyce Bowie Scott 
Hall, future home of the Scott 
Institute.
In 2007, the Richard King 
Mellon Foundation granted 
$25 million to Carnegie Mellon  the previous recordholder for largest private 
foundation grant  to fund 
initiatives in the life sciences.
The Scott Institute supports teams of engineers, 
scientists, economists, and 
others who work to tackle 
a range of issues, including 
developing ef?cient means of 
producing energy and making solar and wind power 
more accessible.
Carnegie Mellons work 
in the energy sector is distinct 
because it combines technology with policy-focused 
research, said M. Granger 
Morgan, director of the Scott 
Institute in a university press 
release. 
This...provides incentives 
to the private energy sector 
to advance reliable solutions 
with a minimal impact on the 
environment, he said.
CMU receives energy research donation
Professor given SIGSOFT curriculum award
Anthony Wasserman, 
professor of software management practice at Carnegie Mellons Silicon Valley campus, is the recipient 
of the In?uential Educator 
Award from the Association 
for Computing Machinerys 
Special Interest Group on 
Software Engineering (SIGSOFT) for his work in software engineering curriculum.
Wasserman, who is also 
the executive director of 
the Center for Open Source 
Investigation, is being recognized for his contribution 
to software engineering curriculum development.
I am honored to receive 
this prestigious award, as I 
try to bring new ideas into 
our educational programs 
and curricula, Wasserman 
said in a university press 
release. Before his work at 
Carnegie Mellons Silicon 
Valley Campus, Wasserman 
was founder and CEO of Interactive Development Environments, Inc. Wasserman 
earned his Ph.D. in computer 
science from the University of Wisconsin-Madison 
and his bachelors degree 
in mathematics and physics 
from the University of California, Berkeley.
Wasserman will receive 
the award on May 24 at the 
35th International Conference on Software Engineering in San Francisco, Calif.
Special Allocation: Mock TrialJFC funding bylaw changesSpecial Allocation: Senior Week
STUDENT SENATE MEETING MINUTES
FRIDAY
High / Low
51 / 43
SATURDAY
High / Low
53 / 41
SUNDAY
High / Low
59 / 50
TUESDAY
High / Low
66 / 57
WEDNESDAY
High / Low
64 / 52
THURSDAY
High / Low
59 / 48
The Mock Trial team requested $850 in funding to 
attend its opening championship this year. The Mock 
Trial team representative 
emphasized the groups 
strong competition record 
this year, considering that 
they quali?ed against very 
dif?cult competition. Senate voted to provide the 
$850 in funding.
Compiled by
BRENT HEARD
Compiled by
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
Student Body President 
Will Weiner spoke on proposed changes with respect 
to the Joint Funding Committee (JFC) funding for organizations and activities.
 Changes are currently 
being considered that aim 
to ?x current ambiguities 
regarding the activities fee 
of non-degree-seeking students; allow the vice president for ?nance to put nonJFC groups into probation; 
and change the current restrictions on groups in probation to only be able to use 
a portion of their previous 
years budget. 
Additionally, JFC is going 
to make its metric for determining funding for hotels 
and travel known so these 
decisions can be more transparent.
Special Allocation: Spring Carnival 
$2,000 was requested for 
the booth builders at Carnival to purchase more hard 
hats. Currently there are not 
enough for all of the workers, and in order to comply 
with Occupational Health and 
Safety Administration guidelines, everyone working on 
Midway must wear a hard hat. 
The money was allocated for 
the purchase of hard hats.
Special Allocation:  Orphanage Outreach
Orphanage Outrage requested $1,500 to help fund 
its trip to the Dominican Republic to teach English at a 
rural school. The organization runs a one-week camp 
in the western part of the 
country on English lessons, 
and a showcase and Late 
Night event here on campus. 
The $1,500 was allocated to 
Orphanage Outreach.
Senior Week representatives sought $2,150 to host 
a ?eld day as part of the 
celebrations. Senior Week 
is being run by seniors and 
the supervisor of Student 
Activities. It is currently 
subsidized, but requires additional funding if it is to be 
free. Senate voted in favor 
of the allocation.

---------------------------------------------------

connecting these organizations you can create this overall sense of CMU pride, MacGillivray said.
Masters addressed the concern over a lack of campus 
uni?cation, especially among 
separate schools, by proposing ways to continue the sense 
of bonding that ?rst-years experience on campus.
One of the biggest exceptions to the separation 
between schools is through 
freshman housing. But that 
sense of community disappears after your ?rst year 
because everyone gets scattered the way the housing 
system is set up. So we want 
to establish more roots by 
trying to extend the network 
that emerges from freshman 
dorms, he said.
When asked what he likes 
the most about Carnegie Mellon, Masters replied that the 
people are what he ?nds are 
the most inspiring.
The CMU student thats 
geeky and proud  in my 
book, that means passionate about something. CMU 
is ?lled with people who are 
driven about one thing or another, he said.
MacGillivray agreed. You 
cant go a day here without 
engaging in a conversation 
with someone thats incredibly inspiring. From the ?rstyears that I work with to upperclassmen, everybody is 
doing something cool or has a 
crazy idea  something that 
theyre so invested in. That 
pushes me to also be driven 
and invested in this campus, 
she said.
April 8, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/news  A3
bachelor level it is gathering and interpreting relevant 
data, on the Masters level 
it is the ability to deal with 
more advanced knowledge 
and complexity and formulate judgments on incomplete 
data, and on the Ph.D. level 
it is the capability of analysis and synthesis of complex 
ideas. 
Particularly with the Ph.D. 
level, he noted that students 
are expected to make original 
contributions  by developing a substantial body of research work. All is part of a 
movement which stimulates 
degree programs to formulate a list of learning projects 
in competence.
Verbeke said that areas 
like arts, architecture, and design place more emphasis on 
research in their disciplines.
All of Europe and these 
schools of art are setting up 
Ph.D. programs and developing doctoral schools and collaborations on research, he 
said.
Verbeke also claims that 
funding for Ph.D. programs 
will be affected by this research output because it 
proves the worth of a Ph.D. 
Getting a Ph.D. is seen 
as getting eight years of education that shows you really 
wanted to become an expert 
in the ?eld  and will become necessary in the future 
to teach and for higher education in art and so on, which 
is clearly a change, said Verbeke.
He noted other effects, 
including the creation of the 
Life Long Learning Program 
at the European Commission, 
which creates commissions 
really stimulating mobility between universities. Students as well as staff are really 
stimulated to work together 
and learn together in research 
collaborations. 
He praised collaboration 
between universities, saying 
as an individual university, 
you will never be able to obtain this kind of research 
?ndings; you need to collaborate.
Without much Ph.D. tradition in the arts, Verbeke felt 
?elds are not about the truth 
but exploring possibilities 
and making descriptions. 
He believes that new 
types of knowledge are being encouraged, including 
tacit-knowledge, ineffective 
knowledge, implicit and explicit knowledge, embedded 
knowledge, and embodied 
knowledge that all focus on 
?ve sections: The problem, 
planning, ?eld work, interpretation, and conclusions.
To Verbeke, architectural 
arts and design research have 
seen improved understandings brought on by the modi?ed secondary education 
system. With more intensive 
research and collaboration, 
he contended that these 
particular ?elds have made 
knowledge much more valuable than before.
Hedge fund manager discusses career, personal successes
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
Assistant News Editor
A Conversation with David 
McCormick, a lecture hosted 
by the University Lecture Series, provided advice and career tips to a large crowd of 
students and faculty in Baker 
Halls Giant Eagle Auditorium 
last Monday. 
McCormick is the former 
U.S. Treasury under secretary 
for international affairs in the 
Bush administration and current co-president of Bridgewater Associates, the largest 
hedge fund in the world.
Bridgewater Associates 
manages $130 billion, according to its website. McCormick 
?elded questions from Heinz 
College dean Ramayya Krishnan and, later in the talk, from 
the audience.
The events description 
gave an overview of McCormicks career as span[ning] 
both the public and private sectors, i.e. serving in the Army, 
working at McKinsey and as 
CEO of FreeMarkets, then the 
White House/Treasury, and 
now working at Bridgewater. 
McCormick ?rst attended 
the U.S. Military Academy at 
West Point, and later earned a 
Ph.D. from the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs at Princeton 
University. McCormick is also 
a Carnegie Mellon trustee, 
and is a distinguished service 
professor of public policy and 
management at Carnegie Mellons Heinz College.
Krishnan led with a sweeping question, asking McCormick what he had learned 
from his varied experiences in 
different career ?elds.
I feel like its this remarkable set of experiences you 
never could have planned, 
McCormick said about his life 
so far. 
The quality of the experience, the quality of the learning, the quality of the outcomes  whether they were 
good or bad  in all those instances was a byproduct really 
of two things: The people you 
were surrounding yourself 
with, and the culture of the 
place where you work.
A major focus of the dialogue between Krishnan and 
McCormick was McCormicks 
role in the United States Treasury during the ?nancial crisis 
near the end of the Bush administration.
McCormick said that at the 
time, It felt like you were in 
the middle of a highway, and 
you were just dodging cars.
McCormick also discussed 
his career choices, particularly 
how he ended up at Bridgewater Associates after being in 
the army and working as under secretary of the treasury.
Theres this unique culture at Bridgewater where 
theyre incredibly blunt. I 
ultimately went because I 
thought I would learn more 
than any other place I went, 
McCormick said. He called 
Bridgewater Associates a personal growth and evolution 
machine.
Halfway through the event, 
McCormick began to take audience questions.
Sophomore international 
relations and politics and environmental policy double 
major and  incoming student 
body vice president Peter 
Masters asked McCormick the 
question, Whats the legacy 
that youve left so far, and 
what legacy do you plan to 
leave?
Ive been trying to think 
of the next 20 years based on 
that question, McCormick 
said. I think the way you 
should think about that is is 
it ful?lling, is it enriching, are 
you living an interesting life, 
and are you making a difference?
I thought it was really informative and there was some 
great insight on how to deal 
with people in the workplace 
and at school as well, said 
Elizabeth Ottens, a sophomore 
electrical and computer engineering major.
Senior materials science 
and engineering major Bianka 
Roy said that the lecture illuminated the intricacies of being a leader in versatile ?elds, 
and just what it takes to succeed.
McCormick ?nished his 
lecture by touching on the 
critical importance of personal growth and continued selfimprovement throughout life.
Im more successful than I 
probably thought I was going 
to be, and now what? So, what 
is really driving this? That notion of personal growth and 
evolution has taken a greater 
weight, so where you want to 
spend your life? You want to 
spend it with people you really 
enjoy, people you can learn 
from. Do you want to be patted on the back every day, or 
do you want to be tested?
BRENT HEARD 
News Co-Editor
What many students believed to be a ?re in the lower 
levels of Doherty Hall last 
Wednesday evening turned 
out to be circulating sawdust 
emerging from the exhaust 
system in the building.
Fire engines and police 
cars were seen at the service 
road around 9 p.m. near the 
base of Doherty Hall and on 
Frew Street near Baker Hall. 
The building was evacuated and all events and meetings being held in the building for the evening were 
cancelled.
Although the smoke emanating from the building 
made the incident seem like 
a ?re, it was later reported 
by the Pittsburgh TribuneReview that Pittsburgh city 
?re ?ghters found no ?re in 
Doherty Hall. 
Deputy City Fire Chief 
Jerry Hirschfeld reported that 
the exhaust system in Doherty 
began circulating sawdust 
through the building. 
According to Matt Finlay, a 
junior creative writing major, 
the supposed ?re interrupted 
a Carnival Committee meeting.
Nick Chisholm, a chemical 
engineering Ph.D. student, 
said, I was in the building 
and we smelled smoke, adding that he noticed a strange 
smell when he was grading 
papers in the upstairs portion 
of the building.
Daniel Campos Zamora, a 
sophomore art and psychology double major, saw what 
he believed to be smoke coming from the dust collection 
system of a CNC milling machine, which automates the 
milling of metal materials, on 
the C level of Doherty.
There was the smell of 
something burning for a 
while, and we asked if we 
should pull the alarm, Zamora said. 
He contacted campus security and was advised to sound 
the ?re alarm.
The university has not released an of?cial statement 
on the incident.
Sawdust smoke causes alarmVerbeke ?nds collaboration key
SBP wants to foster CMU pride
EDUCATION, from A1
ELECTIONS, from A1
Kate Groschner/Photo Editor
Verbeke lectured on teaching strategies in ?elds related to architecture. 
Jonathan Carreon/Contributing Editor
Former under secretary of the Treasury and current co-president of Bridgewater Associates David McCormick hosted a conversation with students.
Put your news hat on and 
write for News! 
news@thetartan.org
Jonathan Leung/Assistant Photo Editor
Doherty Hall was evacuated Wednesday night after reports of a ?re in the lower levels of the building.

---------------------------------------------------

A4  thetartan.org/scitech The Tartan  April 8, 2013
BROOKE KUEI
Assistant SciTech Editor
What happens when you 
put together three Ph.D. candidates in engineering and 
public policy (EPP), two doctoral students in the School 
of Architecture, an MBA student from the Tepper School 
of Business, and a masters 
student in electrical and computer engineering? The answer: Two awards won at the 
Department of Energys Better 
Buildings case competition.
A case competition generally consists of a broad question, 
typically one with both engineering and economic aspects, 
which must be answered in 
the form of a 10-page paper 
and 10-minute presentation. 
The Better Buildings competition included four individual 
case studies; each team was 
assigned two to work on.
We had two cases to 
study: One of them was called 
the Everything Store and involved trying to improve the 
energy ef?ciency of generic 
department store buildings 
by 20 percent, explained 
Alan Jenn, a Ph.D. candidate 
in EPP. The other case study 
asked for a broad plan to improve the energy ef?ciency of 
the city of Fort Worth, Texas 
by 20 percent.
For the Everything Store 
case study, the team was asked 
to look speci?cally at rooftop 
cooling units. After building 
an optimization model to look 
at all possible replacement 
combinations, the team devised a creative plan that generated as much energy savings 
as possible while minimizing 
cost. Basically what we came 
up with was a sell-and-leaseback scheme. In a traditional 
scenario, a company would 
buy this equipment and then 
they would rely on the energy savings to pay it off over 
a certain number of years. So 
instead we devised a scheme 
where they would buy all the 
equipment and then immediately sell it to an investor like 
GE Capital, who would then 
lease it back to the company, 
said Donald Johnson, School 
of Architecture alumnus and 
current Tepper School of 
Business MBA student. This 
innovative strategy allows 
companies not to put capital 
into the project up front, leading to lower payments, which 
in turn leads to a much shorter payback period.
However, replacing rooftop units was not suf?cient to 
bring down savings. We considered other things like lighting ef?ciency, refrigeration, 
and insulation, said Adrian 
Chong, doctoral student in the 
School of Architecture. We 
ran a lot of energy simulations 
on a software called Energy 
Plus. The teams out-of-thebox thinking and detailed 
quantitative analysis earned 
them the Best Proposal 
award for the Everything 
Store case study.
For the Fort Worth case 
study, the team acquired building sector data from Forth 
Worth, which they put into a 
geographic information system 
(GIS), a type of map-making 
software that allowed them 
to determine the energy consumption for the buildings of 
Forth Worth by sector. We 
ended up targeting residential 
single family dwellings, industrial buildings, and schools, 
Jenn said.
Our strategy for residential homes was focused on getting the families more information about their energy use 
so that they can make smarter 
choices, said Allison Weis, a 
Ph.D. candidate in EPP. As for 
industrial buildings, doctoral 
student in the School of Architecture Chao Ding explained 
that most of the energy was 
used in the manufacturing 
process. So we gave them 
very detailed information on 
energy-saving technology, and 
for each technology we gave 
how much energy you can 
save and what the payback period is, Ding said. 
Residential homes and industrial buildings were chosen because of their high levels of energy consumption. 
The reason why we chose 
schools was different, clari?ed Mili-Ann Tamayao, Ph.D. 
candidate in EPP. We chose 
schools as one of the sectors 
to focus on because of the ease 
of disseminating information 
in schools. The teams Fort 
Worth proposal won the members the Most Innovative 
award.
Jie Yee Chan, a masters 
student in electrical and computer engineering (ECE), attributes his teams success to 
its multidisciplinary nature. 
I think this is a great team 
because we all come from different backgrounds, Chan 
said. We have a good mixture 
of [people from] architecture, 
EPP, and MBA students  and 
Im from ECE. Johnson also 
noted that while they were 
all from different disciplines, 
each individual was well informed in each others areas, 
which resulted in a constant 
overlap of knowledge.
Last years team from Carnegie Mellon won one award 
at this case competition. This 
year, the team won Best Proposal and Most Innovative. 
Maybe next years team will 
bring home two Best Proposal awards, Johnson said. If 
some  members of this years 
team decide to compete again, 
next years team will be lucky 
enough to have the guidance  
and experience of talented 
leaders. 
Jonathan Carreon/Contributing Editor
A recent group of students from Carnegie Mellon won two awards at the Department of Energys Better Buildings case competition. Front left to right: 
Chao Ding, Adrian Chong, and Alan Jenn. Back left to right: Milli-Ann Tamayao, Allison Weis, Jie Yee, and Donald Johnson.
CMU wins awards at Better Buildings case competition
DESIREE XU
Business Manager
Californians accustomed to 
dry weather are often puzzled 
by the gray clouds and drizzling rain that occur in the 
middle of April. Parts of California even have some of the 
highest rates of snowfall in the 
United States. After analyzing 
cloud particles and ice nuclei, 
researchers have determined 
that these bouts of precipitation may be the result of the 
transportation of dust from 
Asia.
Assistant professor of mechanical engineering and 
chemistry Ryan Sullivan is 
responsible for looking at how 
Asian dust that arrives on the 
West Coast in spring alters 
cloud properties and changes 
precipitation in California. He 
collaborated with researchers from other institutions, 
including the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration; the University of 
California, Santa Barbara; and 
the National Aeronautics and 
Space Administration.
The research was meant to 
explore a phenomenon that 
is very important to Californians. Environmental engineers in California pay attention to precipitation because 
they are concerned about the 
energy supply that is generated from hydroelectric power, 
Sullivan said.
For his research, Sullivan 
and his team ?rst collected 
precipitation samples in the 
Sierra Nevadas to ?nd Asian 
dust particles in residues. 
Then, they out?tted a research 
aircraft, Gulfstream 1, with 
various instruments to measure the type and concentration of particles and how 
those particles interacted with 
clouds. Next, Sullivan measured the concentration of ice 
nuclei, which are one-in-amillion particles in the atmosphere that cause liquid cloud 
droplets to freeze. He claims 
that mineral dust particles are 
some of the best ice nuclei in 
the atmosphere.
Sullivan then observed 
a long range of transported 
Asian dust intersecting at 
high altitudes with clouds 
that formed over the Sierra 
Nevadas. The elevated concentration of ice nuclei in dust 
plumes causes those clouds 
to freeze, which induces extensive precipitation over the 
mountain range, thus explaining Californias precipitation.
Had the Asian dust not arrived, clouds would not freeze 
and Californians wouldnt 
have to experience high precipitations, Sullivan said.
The California Water Service (CalWater) campaign, 
along with the research aircraft that took cloud measurements, con?rmed that there 
were Asian dust particles in 
the cloud that changed cloud 
properties. These aircraft 
measurements, in addition to 
ground measurements and 
satellite measurements that 
recorded movement of dust 
plumes across the ocean, all 
supported Sullivans conclusions.
Sullivan has other research 
plans pertaining to climate issues. For the next step, we 
want to uncover the chemical 
evolution of particles as they 
move through the atmosphere 
and how this affects the particles ability to interact with 
clouds and change their properties, which ultimately affects climate. These effects can 
be seen as climate changes, 
such as brightness of clouds, 
amount of sunlight re?ected, 
and lifespan of clouds, Sullivan said.
To determine the ability of 
individual particles to interact with clouds in the atmosphere, Sullivan and his team 
developed a single-particle 
analysis technique by merging 
two different laser techniques. 
The ?rst one involved sucking 
a particle into a vacuum chamber, then exposing the particle to a pulse ultraviolet laser 
beam, which turns the particle 
into ions. The particle then 
goes through a mass electrometer, an advanced instrument 
that can measure electronic 
properties such as charge difference.
In the second technique, 
particles are trapped and focused into laser beams, which 
allows them to be stable for as 
long as desired. The particles 
are then exposed to reactive 
gases like water vapor. While 
this is happening, Sullivan 
and his team change the temperature and observe how 
the particles respond. These 
techniques are used to simulate processes that particles 
experience in ice nucleation 
and interaction with clouds in 
California.
In a related project, Sullivan studied contact freezing, 
which involves using an ice 
nuclei to catalyze the freezing of a cloud water droplet 
that hasnt frozen at the correct temperature. During the 
nucleation process, dust particles collide with cloud droplets, causing them to freeze instantly upon contact. Though 
it is the most ef?cient nucleation mechanism, it is also the 
most dif?cult to study since it 
involves controlling contact 
between individual droplets, 
according to Sullivan. Sullivan and his team would have 
to use optical tweezers to hold 
droplets in a laser beam, explore different mineral dust 
particles, and use machines to 
count the number of particles 
that hit the droplet before it 
freezes.
By completing his research, 
Sullivan hopes to understand 
how aerosol particles in the atmosphere change cloud properties and how that affects 
climate. Because these forms 
of research currently have the 
largest uncertainty in terms of 
allowing us to understand and 
predict how we affect climate, 
Sullivan strives to improve the 
accuracy of this method.
Desiree Xu/Business Manager
Ryan Sullivan recently collaborated with other scientists to study the effects of Asian dust particles on the 
precipitation rates in California.
Professor studies particles that determine climate
Had the Asian dust not arrived, 
clouds would not freeze and 
Californians wouldnt have to 
experience high precipitations.
Ryan Sullivan 
Assistant professor of MechE and Chemistry
Brooke Kuei/Assistant SciTech Editor

---------------------------------------------------

April 8, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/scitech  A5
SONIA KATHERANI-KHAN
Staffwriter
The prospect of robots becoming integrated into human society has been limited 
to the realm of science ?ction 
 until now. In his book, Robot Futures, Carnegie Mellon 
professor Illah Nourbakhsh 
discusses imminent robot innovation and its implications 
for society.
According to Nourbakhsh, 
robot technology will advance 
enough within the next few 
decades to bring about a mass 
of mediocre robots. This trend 
will create a new species of 
social robots, which will 
live, work, and interact with 
human beings on a daily basis. 
In his book, Nourbakhsh 
highlights that this does not 
simply entail a mass of benign moving and talking machines, but a major revolution 
that will drastically affect our 
freedom, identity, and behavior. The robots will allow for 
the collection and organization of data on humans, bringing freedom and privacy into 
question. Furthermore, the 
prospect of robots becoming 
an integrated part of peoples 
daily lives will essentially 
change their identities.
Were not just interacting 
with people, but with a whole 
new species. Thats going to 
change who we are, Nourbakhsh said. Regular interaction with a species essentially 
devoid of emotion will indeed 
change peoples behavioral 
characteristics. There is valid 
concern that this will ultimately dehumanize people. 
For example, Nourbakhshs 
book details the concern that 
robots may incite negative 
temperaments in people and 
becoming easy targets for bullying or domestic abuse; people might take out their problems on their robots.
Furthermore, the advancement of robots is likely to dilute our thinking and focusing 
capabilities. Telepresence is 
a product of robot technology 
that allows humans to feel as 
if they were somewhere other 
than their current location, 
therefore allowing them to virtually be in two places at once. 
According to Robot Futures, 
this will increase the prevalence of attention dilution disorder, a disorder related to attention de?cit disorder, which 
is developed due to the in?ux 
of information brought about 
by modern technology.
Perhaps one of the most 
glaring effects will be in the 
manual labor market; Particularly in the eyes of large corporations, robots will be seen 
as human-equivalent competitors. Nourbakhsh points out 
that robot labor will be cheaper than human labor and thus 
may replace human labor altogether, resulting in a loss of 
lower skill level jobs.
There is the potential that 
employment levels will be signi?cantly affected, if, as Nourbakhsh puts it, companies are 
driven by pro?t motive rather 
than social good.
With these grave rami?cations before us, the question 
remains: Why allow such a 
revolution to happen at all? 
Nourbakhsh devotes his last 
chapter to answering this 
question, and points out a bene?t that comes close to balancing out the potential damages: 
community empowerment.
Just as robots can enable 
the mass collection of private 
data on individuals, they can 
also enable people in rural 
communities to collect and 
analyze the quality of water samples. In many similar 
ways, robots have the potential to empower communities 
through ef?cient and innovative technology.
Aside from conveying the 
potential direct effects of the 
robotic revolution on societies, Nourbakhshs book subtly 
reminds readers of the line 
between reality and science 
?ction. For decades, the prospect of machines overtaking 
humans and posing a threat 
to mankind has been a pervasive theme in science ?ction. 
With the coming of the new 
wave of robotic technology, 
one cannot help but wonder 
whether robots will eventually 
threaten the human species. 
Fortunately, Nourbakhsh dispels this fear.
People have forgotten that 
what we are facing is mediocre 
robots. These robots are subhuman, he said. According 
to Robot Futures, the coming 
robots will display a variety 
of inef?cient and annoying 
behaviors, which Nourbakhsh 
calls Robot Smog. Thus, the 
prospect of being terrorized 
by machines is unlikely in the 
near future.
Nonetheless, a revolution is 
under way. Each facet of society should take an active role 
in considering and shaping the 
way the new robo-innovation 
will change society. 
Within the next few decades, it will be imperative to 
think of robotics that empowers our communities, rather 
than serving as just tools for 
corporations, Nourbakhsh 
said.
Professor authors book on future of robots in society
NIHARIKA SINGH
Staffwriter
In many peoples thoughts, 
eggs are as strongly associated 
with Easter as pumpkins are 
with Halloween, or turkeys 
with Thanksgiving. According to about.com, one theory 
suggests that his is because in 
days before modern technology, the beginning of spring 
would be the ?rst time people 
tasted fresh eggs after a cold, 
hard winter, making them 
special during spring. However, there is much more to 
eggs than just being symbols 
of celebration.
Eggs are used by birds, reptiles, and certain mammals as 
a way to produce offspring. 
Instead of giving birth to their 
offspring after they have fully 
developed, these animals lay 
eggs instead. The offspring 
?nish growing inside these 
eggs and then hatch once they 
have matured enough to be 
able to face the world. 
Eggs come in many different sizes and colors; however, 
all have commonalities that 
let them perform essential 
functions. All eggs have membranes to keep their insides 
together and to protect the 
defenseless young before they 
hatch. In addition, several 
types of eggs also have a shell 
which is formed from calcium 
carbonate, a material that 
also makes chalk and pearls.
According to pitara.com, 
the eggshell is a wonderfully 
strong material that gains 
its strength in part from its 
structure  it is shaped like 
a three-dimensional arch that 
lets it evenly distribute any 
weight put on it. Due to this 
feature, if someone squeezes 
an egg by wrapping his or 
her hand around it, it likely 
will not crack. Similarly, due 
to the arch-like structure of 
the egg, it is dif?cult to crack 
an egg by squeezing it at its 
ends. This even distribution 
of loads over the shell is why 
heavy animals like hens can 
sit on top of small eggs without cracking them. However, 
when applying sharp pressure 
to any one area of an egg  
for example, cracking it on 
the side of a pan  the egg 
will easily break. This is also a 
useful property of an egg, for 
it allows the chick (or other 
baby animal) inside to exit the 
egg by simply pecking at an 
uneven pressure.
Apart from the biological 
uses of eggs, you've probably 
noticed how handy they can 
be in the kitchen, too. This is 
due to the properties of the 
insides of eggs, which contain materials needed by the 
developing young. According 
to Exploratorium.edu, these 
materials are globular proteins, which are long strands 
of protein molecules twisted 
into almost spherical shapes. 
These proteins are suspended 
in water inside the egg, and 
they're the properties that are 
so useful in cooking.
For example, heating up 
eggs causes these spherical molecules to gain energy 
and uncurl. These uncurled 
molecules begin looking for 
others to form connections 
with, since their own spherical connections have broken. 
The proteins start connecting to each other, and water 
begins to get trapped in the 
connections between these 
molecules. This causes the 
egg to solidify when it is 
heated up. Continuing to add 
heat to these molecules will 
cause them to form even more 
connections with each other, 
which is the cause of the rubbery texture of eggs that have 
been overcooked. 
Another cool property of 
these protein molecules: Some 
parts of them attract water 
(hydrophilic) while others repel water (hydrophobic). So, 
in mixtures where one needs 
water and oil to stick together, 
eggs can be used to make this 
happen. The proteins in eggs 
will uncurl in such a way that 
the hydrophilic part will be 
attracted to water, while the 
hydrophobic part will attach 
itself to oil. Therefore, these 
proteins can hold the water 
and oil mixture together without any separation.
You might also have noticed that eggs get ?uf?er 
when beaten. This is because 
adding air to eggs while beating them causes protein molecules to uncurl and take up 
more space. These molecules 
uncurl because the hydrophobic parts attach themselves to 
the air molecules, trapping 
more air in the egg mixture, 
leading to ?uf?er eggs.
For such a commonplace 
ingredient, eggs have many 
interesting facets to them. 
From the variety in types of 
eggs to the science inside 
each one, they are truly eggciting!
HOW THINGS WORKThe science behind a breakfast staple
Were not just 
interacting with 
people, but 
with a whole 
new species. 
Thats going to 
change who we 
are.
Illah Nourbakhsh, 
robotics professor
Courtesy of MIT Press
Professor of robotics Illah Nourbakhshs book Robot Futures has recently 
been published by MIT Press.
International Space Station ?nds signs of dark matter
A cosmic ray detector aboard 
the International Space Station has found signi?cant 
signs of dark matter.
Dark matter is a form of 
matter that is both invisible 
and hard to detect. In fact, 
aside from these signs, no 
evidence has yet been found 
of its existence. Scientists believe that dark matter must 
?ll space, because they have 
no other way to account for 
various phenomena, including gravitational tugs on galaxies. Scientists surmise that 
the total mass of dark matter 
throughout the universe is 
?ve times more than the total 
mass of ordinary matter. 
There is still doubt that 
the detected signs point to 
the existence of dark matter. Experiment chief Samuel 
Ting, a Nobel Laureate from 
the Massachusetts Institute 
of Technology, believes that 
the experiment involving the 
cosmic ray detector is proceeding smoothly and will be 
able to produce enough data 
to settle the dark matter mystery.
[These are] beautiful 
results, but we are not there 
yet in terms of identifying the 
dark matter, said Michael 
Turner, an astrophysicist at 
the University of Chicago.
Source: USA Today
Apples iMessage causes surveillance problems
Apples iMessage is so 
securely encrypted that federal agencies have problems 
conducting court-authorized 
surveillance of suspects.
Apple CEO Tim Cook has 
said that over 300 billion messages have been sent since 
iMessage was announced 
in mid 2011. Apple stresses 
that the messages were not 
intended to be impossible for 
the government to decrypt. 
All Apples software does 
is allow for encrypted communication between Apple 
users and ensure the privacy 
of their messages. On the 
contrary, Federal agents are 
able to intercept the telephone calls or text messages 
that phone companies generally deliver as unencrypted 
audio. However, this lack of 
encryption also does not stop 
unauthorized entities from 
intercepting communication. 
Moving away from encryption will be a step backward 
for user privacy, but of?cials 
with the FBI are pushing for 
legislation regarding more 
ef?cient surveillance facilities. Apple maintaining a duplicate set of messages for use 
by law enforcement is a feasible alternative.
Source: CNET news
Compiled By
NIVEDITA CHOPRA
SCITECH BRIEFS
Scientists use 3-D printer to make tissue-like material
Scientists at Oxford University have used a custommade 3-D printer to make a 
material that resembles living tissue. The material consists of thousands of water 
droplets encapsulated within 
lipid ?lms that are able to 
perform some functions of 
human cells.
These droplet networks 
are completely synthetic, so 
they dont have a genome and 
dont replicate. As a result, 
they are immune to problems 
that plague other types of arti?cial tissues, like those from 
stem cells.
Currently, the droplets are 
?ve times the size of living 
cells, but the researchers believe the size can be reduced. 
The synthetic material can 
also be molded into different 
shapes after printing.
Source: The Sunday Morning 
Herald
NASA plans to tow asteroid into Earths orbit
NASA plans to launch a robotic spaceship that will drag 
a small asteroid toward Earth 
so astronauts can explore it.
After identifying an appropriate asteroid, NASA 
will send a specially designed 
spaceship to bring it closer to 
Earth. This mission will help 
NASA develop the capability 
to modify the orbit of asteroids and will be useful in ensuring that no major asteroid 
hits Earth in the future. The 
fears of an asteroid hitting 
the earth have heightened 
since an asteroid exploded 
over the Chelyabinsk region 
in Russia earlier this year, 
causing widespread damage 
and injury.
According to researchers, 
the plans include not only 
learning how to de?ect an asteroid, but also develop ways 
to go to Mars. 
Source: The New York Daily 
News
Michael Setzer/SciTech Editor

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan is a student newspaper at Carnegie Mellon University, funded in part by the student 
activities fee. It is a weekly publication by students during the fall and spring semesters, printed 
by Trib Total Media. The Tartan is not an official publication of Carnegie Mellon University. The 
first issue is free; subsequent issues cost $0.50 at the discretion of The Tartan. Subscriptions are 
available on a per semester basis.
The Editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The 
Tartan Editorial Board. Columns, Editorial Cartoons, and Reviews are the opinions of their 
individual creators. The Tartan Editorial Staff reserves the right to withhold from publication 
any copy it deems unfit.
Letters to the Editor are the opinions of their authors. Letters from within the University community take precedence. Letters intended for publication must be signed and include the authors 
address and telephone number for verification; letters must not exceed 350 words. Authors names 
may be withheld from publication upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject 
any letter. Letters must be submitted by 5 p.m. on the Wednesday before publication by mail or to 
forum@thetartan.org.
A6  thetartan.org/forum The Tartan  April 8, 2013
FROM THE EDITORIAL BOARD
SENIOR STAFF 
Stephanie Blotner, Stacey Chin, Greg 
Hanneman, Jackson Lane, Daniel Tkacik, Alan 
Vangpat
COPY
Swathi Anand, Sawsan Boutemine, Matt Brown, 
Nivedita Chopra, Ellie Erlich, Blaine Greenberg, 
Jordyn Greenberg,  Chris Han, Satvika Neti, 
Joey Peiser Sage Po, Taylor Rawley
ADVERTISING
Kyle Henson, Gretchen Tan
JENNIFER COLOMA *
Publisher
JOSH SMITH *
Editor-in-Chief
BRADEN KELNER 
Forum Editor 
EVAN KAHN
Copy Manager
JUSTIN MCGOWN
Online Editor
CHLOE THOMPSON
Personnel Manager
BRENT HEARD *
News Co-Editor
KELSEY SCOTT *
Operations Manager
NOL UM
News Co-Editor
MICHAEL SETZER
SciTech Editor
RACHEL COHEN
Pillbox Editor
KAIRAVI CHAHAL
Comics Editor
KATE GROSCHNER
Photo Editor
ANNETTE KO
Art Editor
WILL CRICHTON
Systems Manager
LINDA JU
Advertising Manager
DESIREE XU
Business Manager
JONATHAN LEUNG
Asst. Photo Editor
WILLIAM PARK
Asst. Forum Editor
BONITA LEUNG
Asst. Copy Manager
JULIA YANG
Asst. Copy Manager
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
Asst. News Editor
BROOKE KUEI
Asst. SciTech Editor
LAURA SCHERB
Asst. Pillbox Editor
JONATHAN CARREON
Contributing Editor
ALLISON COSBY *
Contributing Editor
MADELYN GLYMOUR
Contributing Editor
CHRISTA HESTER
Contributing Editor
ANNA WALSH
Contributing Editor
Editorial Staff
 2013 The Tartan, all rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN: 0890-3107* Denotes executive committee member
StaffEditorial Board
Office: University Center 314
Phone: (412) 268-2111
Fax: (412) 268-1596
Web: www.thetartan.org
E-mail: contact@thetartan.org
Mail:
The Tartan
Box 119, UC Suite 103 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
The Tartan is a student newspaper at Carnegie Mellon University, funded in part by the student 
activities fee. It is a weekly publication by students during the fall and spring semesters, printed by 
Trib Total Media. The Tartan is not an official publication of Carnegie Mellon University.
The Editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The 
Tartan Editorial Board. Columns, Editorial Cartoons, and Reviews are the opinions of their 
individual creators. The Tartan Editorial Staff reserves the right to withhold from publication 
any copy it deems unfit.
Letters to the Editor are the opinions of their authors. Letters from within the University community take precedence. Letters intended for publication must be signed and include the authors 
address and telephone number for verification; letters must not exceed 350 words. Authors names 
may be withheld from publication upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject 
any letter. Letters must be submitted by 5 p.m. on the Wednesday before publication by mail or to 
forum@thetartan.org.
Voter increase shows positive student body change
Media failed to properly cover North Korean threats
Spring Carnival is just around the 
corner, meaning that the campus 
biggest concert of the year is also almost here. 
This year, AB Concerts booked Ludacris to entertain students, but less 
than three weeks before the concert 
 on April 3  Ludacris cancelled. 
On April 5, less than 48 hours after 
Ludacriss cancellation, AB concerts 
announced that Lupe Fiasco would 
be performing instead of their original artist.
The student body should commend AB Concerts for booking a replacement act on such short notice 
for one of Carnivals main events.
While AB Concerts could have 
booked an artist of lesser caliber than 
Ludacris, they were able to secure an 
artist who is arguably more relevant 
than Ludacris. Ludacriss most popular song on iTunes, How Low, was 
released on December 8, 2009, while 
Lupe Fiascos most popular song on 
iTunes, The Show Goes On, was released almost a year later on October 
26, 2010.
The Show Goes On also ended 
2010 at 28 on the U.S. Billboard Hot 
100, while How Low ended 2009 
at 36 on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100, 
meaning that The Show Goes On 
was more popular during its release 
year than How Low was.
It must also be pointed out that 
Ludacris prominently features in 
other artists songs, but does not often release his own songs, making 
him largely popular for the songs 
he is featured in. However, Ludacris 
cannot perform these songs during a 
solo concert.
Student interest also seems to be 
higher for Lupe Fiasco than it was 
for Ludacris, with many students expressing more excitement towards 
ABs second choice, based on the 
feedback on ABs Facebook pages.
Spring Carnival Concert is an 
event that many students look forward to throughout the year. AB 
Concerts has a large task on its hands 
to choose an artist that is affordable, 
yet exciting to the student body. 
With such short notice to book 
an acceptable artist, AB Concerts 
has found someone who may please 
more students than the original artist planned.
Student government elections 
concluded last Tuesday night, determining the student government 
executives and Senators for the upcoming academic year. While the 
debates for various student government executive positions were 
sparsely attended, voter turnout was 
higher than in previous years: Out 
of the undergraduate population, 
30.01 percent of students voted, and 
17.26 percent of the entire student 
body voted in this general election.
Growing undergraduate voter 
turnout for student government 
elections is a positive change for the 
student body, and hopefully it will 
continue to increase in the future. 
According to the student government website, undergraduate voter 
turnout for the spring student government general election increased 
4.51 percent since 2011, with 25.5 
percent voting in 2011 and 27.64 
percent voting in 2012. Additionally, 
overall voter turnout has gone up 0.6 
percent since 2011, with 16.65 percent voting in 2011 and a slight dip 
to 16.28 percent in 2012.
A trend of increasing interest in 
who represents the student body is a 
good thing; however, there is a large 
amount of room to grow.
At the Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology, approximately 39 percent of undergraduates voted during 
their 2013 spring student body election, according to The Tech, the universitys student newspaper.
Student turnout at Carnegie Mellon could re?ect a voting percentage 
that is close to that of other similar 
institutions if interest in the election 
process increases on campus.
Increasing student awareness of 
the elections through public relation efforts should be a priority for 
student government in the coming 
years. Utilizing social media and other mediums to connect to students 
would be ideal to encourage greater 
student voter turnout.
The increase in voter participation among undergraduate students 
indicates that students are becoming more invested in who their representatives are and their college 
experience.
However, student voter turnout 
can mirror other universitys elections with new candidate campaigns 
that reach students and make them 
aware of the signi?cance of elections.
Braden Kelner/Forum Editor
North Korea formally threatened 
the United States with nuclear missile strikes on April 3 and moved 
a missile to the countrys eastern 
coast. Because the missile is only 
capable of travelling 2,500 miles, 
according to CNN, a nuclear attack 
would not be able to reach Americas 
western states, including Alaska and 
Hawaii, and therefore would not be 
able to harm citizens. However, an 
attack could reach U.S. naval and air 
bases in Japan and Guam.
North Korea asserted that it 
would directly target these U.S. 
bases, as well as the nation itself in 
the future. In response, the U.S. announced the dispatch of ballistic 
missile defenses to Guam.
Despite the increasing threat 
from North Korea, many U.S. news 
outlets have failed to adequately report these developments. Instead 
of making coverage of the situation 
prominent, media outlets chose to 
cover other less important material.
North Koreas declaration of approved missile strikes barely made 
its way to the front page of The New 
York Times on April 4, the day after 
the declaration was made. A fourline preview of an article titled A 
Reaction to North Korea was the 
only indicator on the page that North 
Koreas threat was even made.
Stories that took precedence over 
coverage of North Korea in the April 
4 issue of The New York Times include As Web Search Goes Mobile, 
Apps Chip at Googles Lead, an article about how Google is losing its Internet traf?c to mobile applications.
The front page of the Los Angeles 
Times also lacked coverage of North 
Koreas threats on April 4. The newspaper chose to entice readers with 
stories about The Tonight Show and 
a couples ?ght to prove their marriage instead. The case was no different for the Chicago Tribune.
Because peoples opinions and 
interests are often swayed by the media, news outlets must more accurately portray North Koreas threats, 
as well as the U.S.s responses, to 
their readers. While the threats are 
not immediately dangerous, citizens 
must be properly educated about 
this issue, which has the potential 
to evolve into a larger con?ict. The 
medias job is to provide its audience 
with the information that most directly affects them; a threat of war 
to the nation affects millions and is 
no joke, especially when the threat 
involves nuclear weapons. 
If the United States government is 
taking the threat seriously, so should 
the media.
AB Concerts should be commended for booking artist
Death not ?t for shooter
KAVITA MEHTA
Junior Staffwriter
At a midnight screening of The 
Dark Knight Rises in Aurora, Colo. 
on July 20, James Eagan Holmes 
killed 12 people and injured 58 others during a mass shooting. Holmes, 
dressed in a costume alluding to the 
Batman villain the Joker, set off tear 
gas grenades and shot into the audience with multiple ?rearms. His 
advance purchase of the guns and 
ammunition, as well as his chosen 
targets and costume, raised lingering questions over his sanity.
Prosecutors recently announced 
that they would seek the death penalty against Holmes. As there is the 
lingering question of Holmess mental state, and the Supreme Court 
ruled that the U.S. could not execute 
the mentally ill in Atkins v. Virginia, 
people will have to wait until well after February 2014  when his trial 
is scheduled for  to see if the prosecutors' requests will be met.
Even though Holmes altered 
several peoples fates, the state of 
Colorado  as well as the Federal 
government  should not administer the death penalty, as it does more 
harm than good. Some people want 
Holmes to suffer the death penalty. 
However, a life in exchange for the 
lives lost would be stooping to his 
level.
Holmes probably knew that he 
could have died during his violent 
attack, but he did not. Death is not 
his worst fear. Instead of the death 
penalty, Holmes should serve a lifesentence in prison without parole. It 
is better for Holmes to live there for 
the rest of his life so that he can deal 
with the guilt of his violent actions. 
In prison, Holmes freedom is gone 
forever and he cannot harm anyone else. Additionally, according to 
The Economist, administering the 
death penalty is even more expensive than keeping someone in prison 
for life.
On average, a death row inmate 
spends at least 12 years in prison before death, according to USA Today. 
Thus, Holmes name will occasionally come on the news while he waits 
for execution if the prosecutors ultimate goal for Holmes is the death 
penalty.
Even more importantly, having 
Holmes name rarely appear in the 
news if he is in prison for the rest 
of his life will bene?t the emotional 
health of families affected by the 
massacre and victims themselves.
On the other hand, extensive 
coverage will force families who lost 
loved ones and victims who were injured that night to relive the event. 
Particularly, if Holmes goes to the 
execution phase, the media will 
cover every detail of his life, from 
his last meal to how he will be killed. 
This media coverage will affect the 
families of victims, which is not bene?cial for any of them emotionally.
By taking all of this into consideration, imposing the death penalty 
on Holmes is not worth it for society, especially for the victims and 
families affected by the tragedy he 
created.
Obamacare unable to keep all of its promises
KYLE HENSON
Three years after its passing, the 
Patient Protection and Affordable 
Care Act  commonly referred to 
as Obamacare  is just as bad of a 
law as Republicans always thought 
it would be. When the bill passed, 
President Obama laid out three criteria that it would ?ll. First, if you 
like your insurance, you can keep it. 
Second, premiums will decrease by 
about $2,500 per family. Lastly, it 
wont add a penny to the de?cit.
Obamacare fails to keep all three 
promises. According to a study by 
the University of Chicago, over half 
of the individual insurance plans on 
the market right now dont meet the 
standards for basic coverage that 
Obamacare sets.
This means that if youre a young, 
single individual, you cant buy an 
insurance plan that just covers catastrophic care. You need a plan with 
all the bells and whistles that Obamacare mandates; think of it as a car 
insurance policy that covers gasoline costs and routine maintenance. 
Single catastrophic care insurance 
buyers wont get to keep their insurance, even if they like it.
As for Obamacares second promise of affordability, a recent study by 
the Society of Actuaries found that 
medical claim costs  the largest 
driver of health insurance premiums  are expected to increase by 
32 percent nationwide, and over 80 
percent in some states like Ohio.
This happens because more sick 
people are joining the pool of the insured, as they cant be turned away 
now and can't be charged a higher 
rate than a healthy person. Plans 
for healthy people will increase to 
match the cost of sick people.
Combined with the issue of 
health insurance, this creates incentives for healthy people to not pay 
for insurance until they get sick and 
then sign up for a plan that covers 
their ailments. The only penalty for 
doing this is a ?ne that costs much 
less than actual insurance. This also 
drives up costs for people who have 
and need insurance  like those 
with pre-existing conditions  
whom the law supposedly protects.
This market distortion makes 
health insurance expensive. Premiums are projected to rise 6.3 percent 
this year, according to the Society 
for Human Resource Management, 
and show no signs of slowing down.
Despite including the largest tax 
hike in American history, Obamacare still adds $6.2 trillion to our 
long term de?cits, according to the 
Government Accountability Of?ce. The bill was advertised to the 
American public as de?cit neutral by 
cutting Medicare payments to doctors  to the point that no doctors 
would take Medicare. Because of 
this situation, Congress passed the 
Doc Fix, which extends the current 
rate of Medicare payments. Congress will probably pass this bill every time it expires, and Obamacare 
will add tons of money to the de?cit.
Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (DCalif.) famously said, We have to 
pass the bill to ?nd out whats in it. 
We passed the bill three years ago. 
We know whats in it, and its terrible. Its time to repeal this bill and 
have a serious debate about what 
will actually ?x our far-from-perfect 
healthcare system.
Kyle Henson (kahenson@) is a staffwriter for The Tartan.

---------------------------------------------------

A PERSONS OPINION
April 8, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/forum  A7
The Tartan is loving the spring weather this week. So we asked,
What have you done to enjoy the warm weather?
Compiled by Kelsey Scott
MOGAN RAMESH
Junior Staffwriter
When I came to America from 
RWTH Aachen University in Germany for a year abroad, most of my expectations for Carnegie Mellon were 
met. I was amazed by how much 
time and effort Carnegie Mellon put 
into organizing events for incoming students and introducing them 
to their new environment. After the 
?rst two years in Germany, where I 
felt like one out of many, the warm 
welcome at Carnegie Mellon was a 
nice change. However, as the semester progressed, I got a more realistic 
image of what studying in America 
was really like and I realized that 
there is also room to improve here. 
Away from home, I recognized the 
strengths of my home university.
In America, I started to appreciate the freedom that every student 
is given at RWTH Aachen University. While it is true that in Germany 
problem sets come up each week, 
and it is a good idea to do work during the semester, you can decide to 
what extent you want to study the 
material. Since your grade does not 
depend on submitted homework, it 
is less likely to see students staying 
up all night to ?nish problem sets. 
That makes it more likely for people 
to appreciate the world outside of 
the university, since they have more 
time to do so. In Germany, it is more 
likely for people to join clubs that 
are not af?liated with the university.
Furthermore, a day off at 
RWTH makes one feel less guilty 
because there are no immediate 
consequences of un?nished work. 
Having the discipline to catch up on 
material that one has not yet understood is crucial to succeeding in the 
German system. With one year of 
Carnegie Mellon experience under 
my belt, comprehensive ?nal exams 
worth 100 percent of course grades 
will not scare me much anymore. 
The stress at RWTH University during the semester is not as immediate 
as in America. Carnegie Mellon has 
made me familiar with what stress 
really means.
While I appreciate the campus 
culture at Carnegie Mellon, it is 
amazing how much time students 
spend on campus daily. Unsurprisingly, one day a friends smartphone 
attempted to relocate his home address to 5000 Forbes Ave.
Working in a university environment and being around people with 
similar passions foster ideas. Yet, 
this constant proximity to peers contributes to the much-quoted stress 
culture at Carnegie Mellon. It might 
sound simplistic, but leaving campus can make one understand that 
there is more out there than grades 
and research success. 
That said, I admire how much 
Carnegie Mellon is already doing 
to relieve the pressure. Skiing and 
paintball trips help, but at the end 
of the day, students often do not 
take advantage of those offers; work 
piles up too quickly.
While in America, a valuable skill 
I was taught at home also became 
apparent: self-motivation. The professors who I started my academic 
career with never gave many instructions. Offering the resources 
for students to succeed in their 
studies, professors at RWTH did not 
interfere much in learning course 
material. Especially for ?rst-year 
students, this freedom feels unnatural. However, being thrown in at the 
deep end teaches students how to 
overcome obstacles. For many students, this freedom coincides with 
them leaving their parents house, 
causing adult life to start very 
abruptly.
Carnegie Mellon follows quite 
a different paradigm. Giving more 
guidelines on how to attack problems, professors demand more 
work. I was irritated when a professor banned collaboration on certain 
problem sets. While the bene?t of 
speci?ed collaboration was apparent to me, I saw this practice impinging on my freedom. From my 
current standpoint, the German 
system is less protective and wants 
its students to learn what works by 
themselves. Undoubtedly, university 
graduates will be asked open-ended 
questions in their professional lives. 
Being self-suf?cient will then be invaluable.
Another interesting difference 
between RWTH and Carnegie Mellon is grading. Today, I know that 
the grading system back home is 
hard but fair. In Aachen, I often 
complained about how hard it was 
to get an A. As I hoped to ?nally 
see better test grades, I was looking forward to my exchange year in 
America. In Germany, past exams 
handed out by professors clearly 
show what is expected. Even though 
it is hard to admit, the test results 
are closely related to how well you 
understand the material. It becomes 
apparent to every student where he 
or she stands in comparison to their 
peers. If a whole class at RWTH underperforms on a test, there is no 
curve to make everyone look better. 
Professors only curve exams when 
the percentage of people failing the 
exam is too high, not when too few 
people get As.
In most Carnegie Mellon courses, 
professors seem to have guidelines 
concerning what percentage of 
students must ?nish with As. That 
makes some courses impossible to 
fail. I even heard of an exam where a 
zero was cureved to a C. To me, that 
seems incredible and self-deceiving. 
Another downside of Carnegie Mellons grading system is that suddenly, helping your peers becomes 
detrimental to your own grade. 
Luckily, most of the people I have 
met here are exceptional both in 
their academic performance and in 
their willingness to help. However, 
the fact remains that your grade 
may depend on whether or not you 
outperform your friends.
Juxtaposing both systems, it becomes apparent that American and 
German universities each have individual strengths and weaknesses.
This article is the second in a series detailing the realizations of an exchange 
student at Carnegie Mellon.
Guantanamo should concern citizens
Students should utilize CAPS services
Looking at advantages of German universities
XIYU WANG
Around a quarter of the detainees at the Guantanamo Bay detention camp have been on a hunger 
strike since last month to protest the 
search of their copies of the Quran 
and their inde?nite detentions, according to The Washington Post.
The general publics reaction has 
been underwhelming. Like other 
news regarding Guantanamo over 
the last few years, there has been 
little coverage of the strike in the 
media.
Some Americans love to complain 
about government overreach  a 
product of the fear that big government will turn America into a socialist state. The sources of their complaints have included bans on large 
sodas, expansive background checks 
for guns, and government czars of all 
shapes and sizes. But what about the 
gulag that the U.S. government runs 
off the coast of Cuba?
Some people may feel that because something doesn't affect them, 
they shouldn't be concerned about it.
But just because something 
doesnt directly impact you doesnt 
mean you shouldnt be concerned. 
Consider the rape in Steubenville, 
Ohio of a high school girl by two 
football players. Even though it only 
affected a few people, many people 
throughout the nation voiced their 
concern, fearing that if the case 
were left unnoticed, there would 
be a long-term, negative impact on 
societal attitudes toward rape and 
sexual abuse. Our sense of justice 
and awareness of injustice sustain 
the law. At the same time, ignorance 
can have harmful effects.
Guantanamo sets a dangerous 
precedent for future conduct by the 
U.S. government in ?ghting terrorism. The newest version of the 
National Defense Authorization Act 
(NDAA) allows for inde?nite detention of American citizens without 
due process. Attorney General Eric 
Holder declared in March that it 
would be legal for the president to 
order drone attacks on U.S. citizens, 
according to The Huf?ngton Post.
Other people may believe that 
the people in Guantanamo Bay are 
all terrorists anyway.
But thats not true. Of the 166 
prisoners, 86 have been cleared of 
charges but have yet to be released, 
according to The New Yorker. Furthermore, only a handful of detainees have actually been tried and 
found guilty. In 2011, WikiLeaks released several documents showing 
that a great number of the prisoners held were not actually security 
threats, but were simply detained 
to extract intelligence, according to 
The Guardian.
Its been 10 years since the establishment of the Guantanamo Bay 
detention camp. For over a decade, 
prisoners have been locked up and 
tortured  most of them without 
formal charges, according to the 
documents leaked to The Guardian.
That our government is conducting this kind of senseless cruelty 
should be a concern to anyone who 
is wary of big government. Hitler 
did not take over half of Europe by 
limiting the amount of sugar in soft 
drinks. Stalin did not maintain a culture of fear in the Soviet Union by 
increasing taxes by 1 percent in eight 
years. 
If our complaints re?ect our true 
concerns, we should be very worried. America, its time to rethink our 
priorities.
Xiyu Wang (xiyuw@) is a staffwriter 
for The Tartan.
JORDYN GREENBERG
Junior Staffwriter
In light of the attention surrounding a students death last semester, campus members began to 
re-evaluate happiness at Carnegie 
Mellon.
In all majors and departments, 
stress is shrugged off, sleep is 
deemed unnecessary, and emotional problems are placed on the back 
burner  but it is imperative that 
students deal with these problems 
and are comfortable with the psychological services that Carnegie 
Mellon offers. After hearing different stories from those across campus 
overloaded with work and stressed to 
the max, we need to make the Carnegie Mellon community aware that 
yes, Houston, we have a problem.
In the wake of recent campus discussions and Town Hall meetings, 
Kurt Kumler, Ph.D. and Director of 
CAPS acknowledged, The time is 
right to move forward.
In January, along with junior creative writing major Colleen Casey, 
I was connected with Counseling 
and Psychological Services (CAPS) 
as part of a semester-long project, 
where we proposed products that 
CAPS could use to increase the visibility of the program and to reacquaint students with its services.
Our research  including a survey of Carnegie Mellon students, 
an analysis of data from other college campuses, and the creation of 
PowerPoint slides and interactive 
handouts  was partially driven by 
our own curiosity: Are students at 
Carnegie Mellon actually any different than students at other schools, as 
far as using mental health services? 
How much do students really know 
about where and how to ?nd help on 
campus? Is there still a stigma about 
seeking counseling?
Nationally, only 10 percent of a 
college student body uses mental 
health services yearly, according 
to the Journal of American College Health. So the fact that CAPS 
sees 1,200 students annually out of 
11,531 undergrad and graduate students is no cause for alarm; it mirrors 
the national average.
The 10 percent statistic seems 
low, however, in the case of Carnegie Mellon. The combination of a 
student body that is extraordinarily 
high achieving and that thrives on 
a level of extreme academic rigor is 
a formula for spontaneous combustion. It may not be an explosion in 
this case, but a quiet implosion that 
is just as harmful. There are a handful of students who may silently be 
crumbling  more who are crushed 
by stress around ?nal exam periods. 
While the 10 percent statistic means 
that we are doing okay here at Carnegie Mellon, we really should hope 
for a higher ?gure.
But simply hoping students will 
get to CAPS isnt enough. Through 
our research, we discovered that 
there are universities with demographics very similar to that of Carnegie Mellon, such as Emory University in Atlanta, that actively promote 
their mental health services through 
easy-to-navigate websites, providing contact information for students 
in crisis, screening tools for depression, and links to ongoing programs 
like stress clinics, as well as outside 
resources.
In analyzing the comments from 
the 119 respondents to our Facebook 
survey, we discovered that there 
were some students who reported 
that its hard to get an appointment, and a few who say CAPS is 
a joke. In general, though, Carnegie 
Mellon students know what CAPS 
means and how to get there. 
The average Carnegie Mellon student is at least moderately familiar 
with mental health issues  especially depression, anxiety, and eating 
disorders  and the majority refutes 
the myth that people who go to therapy are somehow weak. So what is 
really keeping more students from 
using the services?
At times our parents, peers, or 
professors think they are giving us 
comfort when they offer the old clich, Well, everyone is in the same 
boat. At other times, we beat ourselves up with self-talk like, If he or 
she can, then I should be able to.
The student body here is extraordinarily high achieving; CAPS is on 
campus for a reason. Reaching for 
help or recognizing the need for support may seem like a sign of failure, 
but honestly, its the smartest thing a 
brilliant Carnegie Mellon student  
like you or me  will ever do.
Annette Ko/Art Editor
Premkumar Natarajan
Robotics
Graduate Student
I played cricket.
Serena Chen
Information Systems
First-year
Went jogging.
Will Weiner
Economics/Stats & Decision 
Science
Senior
I havent been outside...
Camille Rohrlich
Design & Production
First-year
Had lunch outside.
Andy Christman
Materials Science
First-year
Enjoyed disc golf at Schenley 
Park.
Carnegie Mellon 
has made me 
familiar with what 
stress really means.

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

April 8, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/sports  A9
ATHLETE PROFILE
Erra-Hernandez brings talent, motivation to track and ?eld
ABBY SMITH
Staffwriter
Known by many as Dez, 
junior materials science and 
engineering major Zachary 
Erra-Hernandez threw himself into the competition this 
year as a member of Carnegie 
Mellons mens track and ?eld 
team.
After helping the Tartans 
win the mens University Athletic Association (UAA) conference championship this winter 
for the ?rst time in school history, the Las Cruces, N.M. native looks to repeat this feat 
in the outdoor spring season 
by personally qualifying for 
the NCAA championship for 
the second time in his signature throwing (javelin, discus, 
hammer, shot put) events.
When he was a ?rst-year, 
Erra-Hernandez showed his 
throwing prowess early on: He 
made UAAs second-team in 
shot put in the indoor season, 
followed by third-team honors 
for discus in the outdoor season.
His success continued 
into his sophomore year  
Erra-Hernandez was the UAA 
champion in shot put during 
the indoor season and claimed 
his career best in the weight 
throw (15.10 meters). In the 
spring, he achieved career 
bests in the javelin (43.52 meters), discus (47.05 meters), 
hammer throw (49.83 meters), and was once again UAA 
champion in the shot put. His 
in-conference achievement 
quali?ed him to compete in 
the NCAA National DivisionIII Track Championship last 
year, where he placed 12th in 
the shot put.
Erra-Hernandez has been 
throwing since he was in 
eighth grade, and loves the 
mental challenge.
He also disputed the misconception that throwing only 
requires brute strength. It is 
very technical, he said. It requires practice, focus, natural 
competitiveness, and repitition.
Even as an accomplished 
college athlete, Erra-Hernandez says he continues to work 
to improve. At practice the 
other day, I threw the hammerthrow, and it hit the back 
of the cage and bounced back 
at me, he said. Although I 
was absolutely terri?ed, we all 
laughed about it later.
Erra-Hernandez is a twosport athlete, playing football 
for the Tartans in the fall as a 
fullback. For Erra-Hernandez, 
his biggest athletic accomplishment has been being 
able to balance both football 
and track and being able to 
contribute in both.
Erra-Hernandezs teammates agree. Zach brings an 
array of throwing skills to the 
team. Its almost like hes an 
area shooter by the way he can 
throw the discus or shot put 
anywhere he wants in the sector, senior Daniel Cardenas 
said. Hes one hell of an area 
shooter.
First-year teammate Paul 
Hamerski agreed, and was 
quick to praise Hernandezs 
signi?cant personal impact 
on the team. Zach is de?-
nitely one of the best throwers on the team. He scores us 
a lot of points, which is great, 
but his impact as a leader is 
much more important than as 
a thrower. He always does his 
best to perfect his technique 
during practice, which is a 
huge motivator for the rest of 
the team. Plus, his intensity 
at the meets drives his teammates to perform to a similar 
energy, he said. Personally, 
I owe a lot of the things Ive 
learned about throwing to 
Zach. Overall, he is phenomenal at pushing himself and his 
teammates to do their best.
Erra-Hernandez cited 
Carnegie Mellon as the ideal 
place to be a student athlete. 
Everyone recognizes that 
theyre student athletes and 
are really willing to put in the 
work, he said.
And Erra-Hernandez has 
most certainly put in the work 
and hes seen the rewards, 
earning an internship with 
Nucor Corporation this summer to ful?ll his dream of 
working in the metal business.
Of course, Erra-Hernandez 
has not thrown out all of the 
fun from his throwing career. 
He loves how close-knit the 
team is. This past Saturday, 
the team hosted their ?nal 
home invitational of the season, highlighted by a series 
of goofy relays with Tartan 
track members sporting ridiculous costumes and themes. 
[Theyre] a great group of 
guys. I know these are people 
I will keep in contact with for 
the rest of my life, he said.
For now, the team-oriented 
Erra-Hernandez keeps his eyes 
on the prize. It would be huge 
if we won the UAA championship again. I know that our 
hard work will pay off, he 
said.
COMMENTARYPens could win this season
the Pens to give up two solid 
offensive prospects in Kenneth Agostino and Ken Hanowski plus a ?rst-round pick 
in the upcoming draft.
Jokinen was the most recent pickup by the Pens; they 
acquired him right at the April 
3 trade deadline from the 
Carolina Hurricanes. Jokinen was acquired to ?ll in for 
Crosby on the top line after 
he went down with a broken 
jaw; it is still uncertain when 
Crosby will return. He is also 
the only one of the Penguins 
trade acquisitions signed past 
this season.
Jokinen will probably only 
be used for his set-up abilities 
with Kunitz and Pascal Dupuis, the Penguins two leading goal scorers, on his line. 
He could also be utilized for 
key faceoffs, since those are a 
weak point in Malkins game.
Jokinen was acquired for 
cheap because of his large 
contract. The Hurricanes put 
him on waivers last week with 
hopes that a team would sign 
him and pick up his contract. 
However, no one bit, so the 
Pens were able to trade a conditional draft pick and negotiated for Carolina to take on 
some of his remaining salary.
Murray was perhaps the 
least celebrated of the Pens 
pickups, coming right on the 
heels of the news that Morrow was acquired. Murray is a 
solid second-line defenseman 
who plays physically, but does 
not have much offensive ability.
He will be a key piece in the 
Pittsburgh defense down the 
stretch as he helps bolster an 
aging and tiring defense that 
has so far played excellently, 
but is beginning to show signs 
of wear and tear. The price for 
Murray was a bit steep, costing Pittsburgh a 2013 secondround pick and a conditional 
2014 second-round pick.
All of these recent moves 
have reinforced the Penguins 
desire to win, regardless of 
injuries the hockey gods may 
throw in their way. They are 
marching toward the No. 1 
seed in the Eastern Conference, but the Montreal Canadiens and the Boston Bruins 
are still very good and could 
cause the Pens some trouble if 
they meet in the playoffs.
With less than 10 games 
remaining in this shortened 
schedule, it looks like the 
Penguins will probably be facing one of the three New Yorkarea teams in the ?rst round 
of the playoffs. The New York 
Rangers, New York Islanders, and New Jersey Devils 
occupy the 79 spots respectively with 40, 40, and 39 
points (compared to the Pens 
58). Every win is worth two 
points, so these bottom seeds 
are going to shuf?e around 
some more before all is said 
and done.
The nice thing for the Penguins, though, is that they 
will be able to outscore any 
team they face with or without Crosby. As long as Fleury 
and Vokoun continue playing 
the role of brick wall in net, 
the Penguins shouldnt face 
much of a challenge until the 
later rounds.
The key for the Penguins 
is to make sure they keep up 
the momentum going into the 
playoffs and keep their eye on 
the ultimate prize.
It may seem easy for the 
Pens to get cocky and overcon?dent, given the bashing 
they have been giving other 
teams night in and night out. 
But fans should not be too 
concerned  with four years 
since their last title win and 
several new hungry veterans 
who have never won in their 
storied careers (including 
Morrow and Iginla), these 
Penguins have plenty to keep 
?ghting for.
From PENS, A10
Kate Groschner/Photo Editor
Zachary Erra-Hernandez came in ?rst in the hammer throw, shot put, 
and discus throw events at the quad meet last Saturday.

---------------------------------------------------

A10  thetartan.org/sports The Tartan  April 8, 2013
ELIZABETH MARTIN
Staffwriter
The Carnegie Mellon mens tennis 
team fought off the NCAA Division-I 
Duquesne University Dukes on Friday, 
defeating them 63.
Carnegie Mellon teams won all 
three doubles matches. Sophomore 
Christian Heaney-Secord and senior 
Duke Miller won at No. 1 doubles, and 
sophomore Thomas Cooper and senior 
Jooho Yu came back from 45 to earn 
their victory at No. 2 doubles.
First-year Yuvraj Kumar and sophomore Bryce Beisswanger defeated 
Duquesnes No. 3 doubles team.
The ?rst two singles matches went 
to the Dukes, who won singles matches 
at the ?rst and ?fth positions, but the 
Tartans were determined to win. Playing No. 6 singles, Yu defeated his opponent 62, 64, and ?rst-year Abhishek 
Alla sealed the Tartan victory with a 
61, 76 (7) victory at No. 3 singles.
Kumar also racked up a win for the 
Tartans at the No. 4 singles position, 
winning in three sets. I think we all 
played really well, Kumar said. It felt 
really good to sweep doubles and follow it up with a good singles performance. We will take a lot of con?dence 
away from this going into Kenyon next 
weekend.
Alla agreed with Kumar: All of 
us played well; we took care of business. Its a good con?dence boost as 
Duquesne is a Division I team.
The team hopes to continue its success when it plays Kalamazoo College 
on Saturday and Kenyon College on 
Sunday.
Mens tennis beats D-1 Duquesne
Jonathan Leung/Assistant Photo Editor
Mens tennis won all three doubles matches and three of six singles matches against the NCAA Division-I Duquesne University Dukes.
CARL GLAZER
Staffwriter
Although it only began in 
January, the NHLs abbreviated season is almost over. The 
Pittsburgh Penguins are asserting their dominance over 
the rest of the league while 
battling through extended 
injuries to star centers Evgeni 
Malkin (concussion and upper body) and Sidney Crosby 
(broken jaw).
These injuries to their 
main playmakers have not 
slowed the well-oiled machine that the Pens have become. Wingers Chris Kunitz 
and James Neal would both 
be on pace for career seasons 
if this were actually a full 82-
game season. Goalies MarcAndre Fleury and Tomas Vokoun have played lights out, 
averaging less than 2.5 goals 
against combined.
Much of the difference 
that has pushed the Pens 
over the edge came after 
last years quick ?rst-round 
exit at the hands of the rival 
Philadelphia Flyers. This offseason, the Pens traded third 
line center Jordan Staal for 
center Brandon Sutter, a ?rstround pick, and minor league 
player Brian Dumoulin.
Even though Staal has a 
10-year, $60 million contract, 
Sutter has so far been outplaying him. Vokoun was also 
picked up during free agency 
to help back up Fleury and 
give him some rest, and as 
the stats show, it has been a 
fantastic success.
Even with those successes, the Penguins are still not 
content with sitting still. In 
the midst of a perfect month 
of March, going 1500, the 
Pens made four major trade 
deadline deals to further cement the idea that the future 
is now. Wingers Brenden 
Morrow and Jarome Iginla, 
center Jussi Jokinen, and 
defenseman Douglas Murray 
are all short-term additions 
meant to push the Pens over 
the edge this year and bring 
the Cup back to Pittsburgh.
Morrow came to the Penguins from the Dallas Stars, 
where he served as their top 
line left winger and captain. 
For the Pens, he has so far 
served on their second line, 
giving them a bit of a scoring 
boost while Malkin was out. 
In a larger sense, Morrow allows the Penguins to move 
around their scoring talent 
and to give the third line a 
bit more ?repower, with previous wings Matt Cooke and 
Tyler Kennedy only scoring 
16 and nine points (goals and 
assists), respectively.
Iginla was the face of the 
Calgary Flames after he came 
into the league in 1996, and  
he served as their captain 
for nine years. He is a proli?c scorer and last season 
became only the 42nd player 
in NHL history to score 500 
goals in his career, and only 
the 15th to do it all with one 
team.
He was supposed to take 
a backseat scoring role and 
was slotted to slide into the 
second line with Malkin and 
Morrow, but the recent injury 
to Crosby will force him to try 
and pick up the scoring slack 
in Crosbys absence. Iginla 
did not come cheap, forcing 
COMMENTARYPens additions to lineup are positive
See PENS, A9
Carnegie Mellons track and ?eld teams hosted a quad meet last Saturday against Penn State-Behrend, Washington & Jefferson College, and 
Westminster College. The womens track and ?eld team came in third place, while the mens team came in second place. Below are the scores 
for all of Carnegie Mellons track and ?eld athletes that placed in the various events.
Compiled by
ANNA WALSH

---------------------------------------------------

The Book of Mormon
The Benedum Center production is 
crude but fantastic  B5
04.08.13 Volume 107, Issue 23
wats:ON? 2013 
the annual art and architecture festival

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
Check out our new weekly comic: Wrong 
Hands.
11
Dollar Movie
AB Films presents three movies this weekend, 
including Silver Linings Playbook.
7
The Tartan . Box 119 . UC Suite 103 . Carnegie Mellon University . 5000 Forbes Ave . Pittsburgh, PA 15213 . www.thetartan.org .  2013 The Tartan
PUBLISHER Jennifer Coloma EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Josh Smith
PILLBOX EDITOR Rachel Cohen ASSISTANT PILLBOX EDITOR Laura Scherb COMICS EDITOR Kairavi Chahal
ART EDITOR Annette Ko PHOTO EDITOR Kate Groschner
COPY MANAGER Evan Kahn COVER Andrew Viny
8
4567
regulars...
Advice
Everything you need to know about Carnival 
and marketing your own drinking games.
3
...diversions
...this week only
Share Some Style
Two Carnegie Mellon alumni have created a 
personal styling website.
3
Hey Marseilles
The indie pop band performed last Monday at 
The Underground.
4
Book of Mormon
The Broadway musical doesnt disappoint with 
its sharp humor and wit.
5
House of Cards
Netflixs web-exclusive political thriller is a huge 
success.
6
Roger Ebert
The iconic film critic died last Thursday from 
cancer at age 70.
7
wats:ON?
The annual arts and architecture festival 
echoed throughout the College of Fine Arts.
8
Pico Iyer
Author Pico Iyer spoke on Tuesday as a part of 
the Adamson Writers Series.
10
Did You Know?
Did you know that 25 years ago there was a 
massive water main break on the Hill?
10
Puzzles
Take a break from planning for Carnival and 
unwind with these puzzles.
13
Style-oscopes
Check out your horoscope this week for what 
to wear.
14
Calendar
Events to keep an eye on in the week ahead.15

---------------------------------------------------

style
pillbox 04.08.133
CMU alumni have style
New personal styling website features three-step process
Our school may not have fashion as an available 
major, but students keep surprising the world with 
their talents in this field. Gela Nash-Taylors Juicy 
Couture, for example, is one of the most renowned 
brands from a Carnegie Mellon alumna (CFA 78). 
Now, the up-and-coming personal styling website 
sharesomestyle.com is about to continue this legacy.
Carnegie Mellon alumna Diane Loviglio (BHA 05)
and her husband Gil Tolle (SCS 05) just founded 
the business in November 2012, but the newborn 
company already has a total of 35 stylists in New 
York City, San Francisco, and Pittsburgh. A couple of 
the current stylists, Anya Weitzman (BHA 12) and 
Kristen Staab (BHA 12), are also Carnegie Mellon 
alumnae.
Before starting sharesomestyle.com, Loviglio and 
Tolle both tried working at different startups.  [Gils] 
got acquired, so he was at Cisco for a few years. I 
went to freelance a bunch of startups, then I went to 
take up a full-time job for a year and a half, but then 
we both quit on the same day in November to do 
this full-time, Loviglio said. Ultimately, the Carnegie 
Mellon couple decided to dedicate their all to this 
company.
The idea behind the site is a simple three-step 
process: Find a Stylist, Get a Closet Audit, and 
Do a Shopping Trip. The first step requires you to 
review stylists profiles, which include before-andafter pictures of their previous clients; get to know 
the stylists through phone calls, email, and social 
networking. Once you pick your favorite, you may 
book a session with him or her and then pay online.
Next, your stylist visits your home for about two 
hours. As a team, you mix and match clothes you 
already have, throw out or donate the clothes that do 
not fit your style, and make a shopping list of all the 
new items that will contribute to your new style and 
fill the newfound gaps in your closet. Finally, you will 
shop with your stylist for another two hours to pick 
out new outfits, check the fit, and help you get out 
of your comfort zone. The whole process occurs that 
typically ranges from $30 to $90 an hour.
To ensure the security of clients and the validity 
of the stylists, clients can check stylists website 
profiles and social network pages, as well as the 
blogs that both stylists and previous clients post on 
sharesomestyle.com.
As Loviglio explained, They put together a My 
Style: They upload photos that they like, photo 
shoots that they have styled for before or [for] their 
past clients. Also, they may put in a couch or a 
teapot that they like, so clients can have a better 
understanding of their static and feel like, Oh, I can 
relate to that person! 
Mothers Day and graduation are two big upcoming 
celebratory events, and sharesomestyle.com is 
taking this opportunity to launch its newest feature 
 gift cards  in order to meet the demand for 
fresh and practical presents. The idea is that people 
can sign up their friends and family members for the 
service.
It is truly inspiring to see people from our school 
supporting each other toward the same goal even 
after college  a goal toward personal styling, 
no less. Who says our school doesnt care about 
fashion?
Amy Tsien | Junior Staffwriter
Screenshot courtsey of sharesomestyle.com
Advice for awkward people
Dear Patrick,
Carnival is next week, 
and Im really excited! 
...except I dont know 
exactly what Carnival 
entails. Whats the deal 
with Carnival? How can I 
best enjoy it?
Thanks,
Rarely Ever Tremendously 
Imbibed, Carnival Entices, 
Needs Tips Regarding 
Ensuing Vices, Easy 
Liquor, Eager Rampages
Dear RETICENT 
REVELER,
For most people at Carnegie 
Mellon, who dont go out 
that much or only drink 
in moderation when they 
do, Carnival is the high 
point of the year. Students 
forget about the exams just 
around the corner, let their 
hair down, and go crazy 
for one weekend out of the 
whole year. Some even start 
drinking on Tuesday!
But for those of us who 
usually spend Tuesday 
nights in a bar, Carnival is a 
time when the people you try 
to get away from show up 
at your favorite haunts. The 
sorority girls are excited for 
those lemon drop shots, the 
dudes are shotgunning beer 
and awkwardly hitting on 
girls, and the programmers 
are getting drunk for the 
first time all year instead of 
making their kernel. But its 
Carnival, and all we can do 
is take another drink and 
enjoy their company.
What better way to 
celebrate than drinking 
yourself into oblivion?
Patrick Hoskins
Dear Patrick,
I just thought of this great 
new drinking game! I call 
it Human Fortypede. 
Its a combination of 
Edward Fortyhands and 
The Human Centipede. 
I think its a great game, 
except no one wants to 
play it with me. How can 
I convince my friends to 
play it with me? I know 
theyll love it once they 
give it a chance.
Thanks,
Guarantee Amazing 
Milieu, Entertaining 
Guests Until Zappy, 
Zingers Leave Everyone 
Reticent
Dear GAME GUZZLER,
That game sounds 
miserable. But as your 
intrepid advice columnist, I 
shall endeavor to advise you 
on tricking your friends into 
playing your awful drinking 
game.
The most likely method 
to succeed is the most 
straightforward one: tell your 
friends the drinks are free if 
they play the game. Nothing 
is more alluring than free 
booze. If you can convince 
some girls to play, Im sure 
youll get some guys eager 
to play too. I would not 
suggest jumping your friends 
with duct tape and bottles 
of booze, no matter how 
appealing that may be.
Or play my drinking game: 
Shut up and drink,
Patrick Hoskins
Need advice? Send queries 
to advice@thetartan.org.
About Carnival and drinking games
Sharesomestyle.com offers style advice in three steps: finding a stylist, closet auditing, and shopping.

---------------------------------------------------

4music
pillbox 04.08.13
Despite playing at The Underground for a crowd of 
around 50 people, indie folk band Hey Marseilles 
delivered an intimate and engaging performance last 
Monday. They took the stage 30 minutes later than the 
announced start time since the sound check had taken 
too long. The concert opened with a disjointed collection 
of instrumentals that turned into the song Marseilles, 
an instrumental lead into To Travels and Trunks, the 
?rst two songs of their ?rst album of the same name.
After a brief slow piece called Gasworks, Hey 
Marseilles pulled out a few uptempo songs like Heart 
Beats and Dead of Night, both from an album released 
last month called Lines We Trace. These tracks got the 
audience engaged in the show and caused many of the 
concertgoers to start singing along.
Despite the small crowd, there were few concertgoers 
who just seemed to be along for the ride. It seemed as 
if everyone in the crowd wanted to be there and had 
known about the band for some time. The intimate 
environment had the audience swaying and singing to 
the beautiful and intricately layered music that the seven 
members of Hey Marseilles created with even more 
instruments.
Nearly every member of the band played multiple 
instruments throughout the night: The lead singer 
played guitar and shared a bass with the cellist, the 
keyboardist played an accordion, and a versatile 
trumpeter who took up miscellaneous percussion as well 
as clarinet.
As the night wore on, lead singer Matt Bishop developed 
a level of comfort with the audience as he shared jokes 
regarding pirating the bands music and the national 
renown of Carnegie Mellons awkward computer science 
majors.
The band ended its set with a rousing and emotional 
performance of the single from their most recent album 
called Bright Stars Burning, and a lengthy piece 
from their ?rst album called From a Terrace. After an 
elaborate interplay of accordion, viola, and trumpet, the 
song dissolved into a soulful acoustic guitar and vocal 
segment.
Yet the dedicated audience wasnt satis?ed with a single 
set and the promise of free ice cream, so Hey Marseilles 
was called back on stage for an encore. Bishop came on 
?rst and did a solo performance of the track Someone to 
Love, a soft and melancholy song about being satis?ed 
with the person youre with. After that, the full band 
came on to perform Calabasas, an intricate, layered 
piece that features a beautiful and consuming ending full 
of viola, cello, trumpet, and keys.
Hey Marseilles delivered a soulful set to a small crowd 
of truly dedicated fans. The entire experience was 
similar to that of fan girls seeing their favorite act in a 
very intimate venue. The Underground saw a rare show 
that left everyone satis?ed and the most enamored of 
fans loving Hey Marseilles a little bit more than they did 
before the concert.
Kyle Henson | Staffwriter
Courtesy of Chris Skaggs
Hey Marseilles delivers intimate concert
Indie folk group presents engaging, comfortable event at The Underground
Above:  Lead singer Matt Bishop accompanies the 
main vocals on tambourine. Left: Hey Marseilles uses 
a variety of instruments, including guitar, bass, viola, 
cello, keyboard, accordion, and trumpet.
Courtesy of Chris Skaggs

---------------------------------------------------

theater
pillbox 04.08.135
The Book of Mormon: racy, vulgar, perfect
Politically incorrect and offensive, the Broadway musical is satisfying and smart
Warning: explicit content.
Those words are printed on every ticket to The Book 
of Mormon ticket at Pittsburghs Benedum Center in 
Downtown  and with good reason. The musical that 
cleaned up at the Tony Awards with nine wins last year 
is one of the most vulgar, inappropriate, and politically 
incorrect musicals that Ive ever seen  and I loved 
every second of it.
For those who may not know, The Book of Mormon 
is a musical from the minds of Trey Parker and Matt 
Stone, the creators of Comedy Centrals South Park. 
The musical follows Elder Kevin Price, a young Mormon 
eager to begin his two-year mission for the Church of 
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Praying to be sent to 
Orlando, Price seems to draw the short straw when he 
is assigned to Uganda with the compulsive liar Elder 
Arnold Cunningham. Faced with warlords, disease, 
poverty, and famine, Price realizes that bringing Africans 
to the church may not be as easy as it initially seemed. 
Laced with constant jokes, the show had the audience 
laughing from the opening number.
The Book of Mormon is meant to be one big joke, but 
the level of humor in the musical does not affect the 
quality of the show. The amount of work that was put 
into the production was evident. The vocal performances 
of each and every cast member was incredible, and 
the choreography effectively corresponded with each 
of the numbers. The cast and crew had obviously 
put an immense amount of effort into polishing the 
performance, making the show as legitimate as The 
Lion King or Wicked. It is only due to this level of 
professionalism that audience members are able to take 
the more ridiculous parts of the script seriously.
However, what makes The Book of Mormon different 
from most musicals is that it was written to offend. 
There are racial slurs and vulgar language everywhere, 
and direct jabs at organized religion come at every turn. 
It crosses every line and breaks all the rules. While on 
the surface it may seem a ridiculous, crude excuse for a 
musical, the satire is very poignant. The Book of Mormon 
is only as ridiculous as the concept it criticizes. The 
message it tries to project through the use of ?amboyant 
Elders and the hyperbolized ignorance of the Ugandans 
rings true whether people adhere to an organized 
religion or not.
The Book of Mormon is really about how organized 
religion isnt necessarily a requirement for being a good 
person, helping others and making a difference. And 
while it does make fun of religion, it also teaches respect 
for others beliefs, no matter how far-fetched they might 
seem. 
Although the production at the Benedum Center ended 
yesterday, its worth the trip to ?nd another production. 
Look past the offensiveness and see the genius beneath 
the jokes. It wont disappoint.   
Diana Pacilio | Junior Staffwriter
Courtesy of Wikimedia Commons
Written by Trey Parker and Matt Stone, the creators of 
South Park, the highly offensive but hilarious musical 
The Book of Mormon won nine Tony Awards last year.

---------------------------------------------------

6television
pillbox 04.08.13
At that magical, entrancing place where the political 
intrigue of The West Wing and the ?lming style of 
Sherlock intersect lies House of Cards. The thrilling 
political drama is a not only an extremely well-crafted 
show, but also an innovation in the world of television.
Instead of ?rst airing on a major network, the shows 
?rst season was released in its entirety on Net?ix on 
Feb. 1. Based loosely on a 1990 BBC production with 
the same title, the show follows U.S. Representative and 
majority whip Francis Frank Underwood, played by 
Kevin Spacey with a smooth, charming Southern drawl. 
Domineering and powerful, Underwood wreaks carefully 
orchestrated havoc on Capitol Hill after President Garret 
Walker (Michael Gill) passes him up for the position of 
Secretary of State. He and his wife Claire, played by the 
ever-graceful and poised Robin Wright, decide to ?ght 
back against the political machine by ditching moral 
standards in order to look out for themselves.
The couples relationship is one of the best parts 
of the show. While clearly not in love or completely 
committed to each other, Frank and Claire have a mutual 
understanding that they will each do whatever it takes 
to advance the others career. They also participate in 
and openly admit to extramarital affairs throughout the 
season: Claire with former ?ame photographer Adam 
Galloway (Ben Daniels) and Frank with upstart reporter 
Zoe Barnes (Kate Mara). The dynamic between the 
couple adds an interesting emotional angle to the show, 
most of which is driven by the political scheming of 
Frank and his associates.
The list of standout characters includes Peter Russo, a 
U.S. congressman who runs for governor of Pennsylvania 
with Franks help. Corey Stoll, who plays Russo, is one 
of the strongest and most compelling actors featured on 
the show. His character, while plagued by demons that 
include heavy drinking, drug abuse, and a penchant 
for prostitutes, is a force to be reckoned with  an 
admirable feat for an actor.
The entire cast presents believable and engaging 
characters. All of the characters are ?awed, making 
it impossible to see anything in black and white; 
instead, viewers are forced to concentrate on the many 
interesting shades of gray. The writing is genius; the plot 
moves and twists steadily while remaining believable; 
and the cinematography is interesting and easy to 
watch. The best parts of the show are undoubtedly the 
moments in which Frank breaks the fourth wall, turning 
and staring directly into the camera and addressing 
viewers to explain his true sentiments with snarky 
commentary or a disparaging glance in reaction to an 
idiotic political maneuver.
Even though its availability is restricted to Net?ix users, 
the series has experienced huge success, marking what 
will take off as a trend in television if marketers have 
any shred of sense. Currently ranking the number-one 
most watched show on Net?ix, House of Cards has been 
renewed for a second season of 13 episodes.
Laura Scherb | Assistant Pillbox Editor
Net?ixs exclusive House of Cards is a winner
Season one of online providers political thriller combines intrigue, ambition, and schemes
Courtesy of Wikimedia Commons
U.S. Representative Frank Underwood (second from left), his wife, Claire (third from left), and his paramour Zoe 
Barnes (left) navigate the trials of life in Washington politics in the Netflix original series House of Cards. 

---------------------------------------------------

film
pillbox 04.08.137
Legendary ?lm critic Roger Ebert passed away on April 
4, two days after revealing that his cancer had returned. 
Ebert achieved iconic status after hosting ?lm review 
shows such as Siskel and Ebert at the Movies and 
becoming the only ?lm critic to win the Pulitzer Prize for 
Criticism. His reviews for the Chicago Sun-Times were 
syndicated nationwide and attracted millions of readers.
One of the things that Ebert taught us was the 
possibility of living an unstoppable life. His battle with 
thyroid and salivary gland cancer caused him to lose 
his voice and most of his jaw, but he never lost his 
conviction or his passion for life. He always followed 
through with his purpose and love for writing; as he told 
Esquire magazine, [W]hen I am writing, my problems 
become invisible, and I am the same person I always 
was.
For four decades, he garnered generations of loyal 
readers who grew up with him and his words. His 
honesty with himself allowed for his ?lm criticism to be 
accessible to anyone who loved the movies while also 
being a unique form of artistic expression. 
This year, however, was possibly his most proli?c year 
of writing reviews. Shortly before his death, he declared 
a leave of presence: Last year, I wrote the most of my 
career, including 306 movie reviews, a blog post or two a 
week, and assorted other articles, he wrote on his blog 
on the Chicago Sun-Times website. I must slow down 
now, which is why Im taking what I like to call a leave 
of presence.  Instead, Ebert was going to review ?lms 
he was truly passionate about. Sadly, we never got the 
chance to read more of his words.
Through Ebert, people did not only learn about movies, 
but also about love, life, fear, and strength. His words 
and his passion widened the experience of life through 
movies. Ebert helped people understand the truths that 
turn movies into universes full of wonder and awe. 
Because his criticism was accessible and open, 
readers could connect to what he had to say whether 
they agreed with him or not. He wasnt a pretentious, 
highbrow critic who only loved European art ?lms. He 
loved all kinds of ?lm and was unfazed by mass opinion, 
following his gut and articulating his reviews in such a 
way that truly made him the most important ?lm critic of 
his generation.
His explosive presence on Twitter also exhibited his 
voice not only on ?lms, but about politics as well. His 
hilarious, politically incorrect tweets re?ected a part of 
him that would never be slowed down or stopped by 
anyone or anything.
Eberts love for the movies helped readers understand 
them in a more passionate sense. Although he was never 
a ?lmmaker himself, the world of ?lm will never be the 
same without him. He wasnt merely a critic; he was a 
man whose love for life and imagination contributed to 
?lms in a way audience members never realized were 
possible.
Andie Park | Junior Staffwriter
Famed ?lm critic Roger Ebert dies at 70
Iconic and inspiring character loses battle with thyroid and salivary gland cancer
Matthew Zurcher | Staffwriter
Ryan Gosling, Emma Stone, Sean Penn, Josh Brolin, 
and Nick Nolte star in Gangster Squad, an emptyheaded exercise in old-Hollywood style. Lifting freely 
from noir and gangster traditions, Gangster Squad tries 
in vain to distract from its low ambition and ultimately 
comes across as a childs dress-up production of 
Boardwalk Empire. The colors are impressive and its 
clear that the designers had a blast, but this might be 
the most skippable movie of the past year.
Gangster Squad
Thursday, April 11
9:30 11:30
Live and Become
Saturday, April 13
9:30
A young Ethiopian boy is passed from his Christian birth 
mother to a Jewish woman whose child has recently 
died. Live and Become is the story of his upbringing in 
Israel and how he deals with his secret past. The French 
?lm won numerous international awards, including 
Most Popular International Film at the 2005 Vancouver 
International Film Festival, and explores race, religion, 
and identity in a multicultural world.
Silver Linings Playbook
Friday, April 12
9:30 12
Hailed by the Academy on many different fronts, 
especially acting, Silver Linings Playbook rode through 
the winter on a tidal wave of hype and found a receptive 
audience. David O. Russell (The Fighter) brings us the 
story of a bipolar schoolteacher (Bradley Cooper) who 
befriends a troubled widow (Jennifer Lawrence). The 
?lm is a well-choreographed piece of ensemble acting, 
with Jacki Weaver and Robert De Niro delivering notable 
supporting performances. It poses some questionable 
ideas  essentially suggesting that mental illness can 
be cured by true love  but nonetheless encourages 
healthy debate.
dollarmovie
McConomy Auditorium, University Center
Courtesy of Wikimedia Commons 
Film critic Roger Ebert passed away on Thursday after 
suffering a cancer relapse.

---------------------------------------------------

feature 
pillbox 04.08.1398feature
pillbox 04.08.13
Noise continually surrounds us, from white static to 
violent intensity, reads the program for this years 
wats:ON? festival. Noise asks you to surrender to the 
possibility of the rush of the sublime.
There were certainly sublime moments during 
last weeks wats:ON? festival, an annual arts and 
architecture festival dedicated to the memory of the 
late Carnegie Mellon architecture professor Jill Watson 
and curated by associate professor of art Golan Levin 
and director of Carnegie Mellons architecture precollege Spike Wolff. This years festival went with the 
theme NOISE, which many of the presentations 
and events alluded to. The festival spanned Thursday 
through Saturday and featured a variety of lectures 
and performances in the College of Fine Arts building. 
The noises over the course of the festival were by 
turns educational, overwhelming, inspiring, thought 
provoking, and inescapable.
Although the festival offered four events total, I attended 
two very engaging but very different events  Jeff 
Hinkelmans lecture and screening titled What Is the 
Sound of a Pig Dancing? and the Cyborgs of Sound 
performance followed by a piece by experimental 
musician Lesley Flanigan. 
Jeff Hinkelman: What Is the Sound of a Pig 
Dancing? 
Hinkelman, a Carnegie Mellon graduate student in ?lm 
and head of the Hunt Library video collection, offered 
guests an engaging and sweeping overview of the 
history of sound in ?lm on Friday night. As Hinkelman 
revealed, Film comes from sound: The idea for ?lm 
originated when entrepreneurs thought to add pictures 
to Thomas Edisons invention of the phonograph, which 
recorded sound.
The venue for the screening, the Frank-Ratchye 
STUDIO for Creative Inquiry, was pleasant, intimate, 
and appropriately sized for the turnout: Though small, 
the room was nearly ?lled. The festival organizers also 
invited guests to enjoy free popcorn and sugary treats, 
which made for an even friendlier and more comfortable 
atmosphere.
The only drawback was the lack of sophisticated 
equipment: Hinkelman used an ordinary projector to 
display short ?lms via YouTube. Although Hinkelman 
also didnt seem to favor YouTube as a screening 
medium, the quality of the short ?lms was just ?ne for his 
purposes.
Undoubtedly the most impressive part of the evening 
was the student performances that accompanied some 
of the screenings. Hinkelman had wanted to emulate 
screenings of silent ?lms as they had existed in the 
silent ?lm era  often in theaters or other venues with 
live accompaniment. For this reason, senior Bachelors 
of Humanities and Arts student in ?lm and musicology 
Matthew Zurcher and senior piano performance major 
Brian Gilling joined Hinkelman at the front of the room, 
offering brilliant and entertaining live accompaniment to 
the visuals onscreen.
Other highlights included a hilarious animated short 
called Aint She Sweet, which kept the audience 
chuckling with its adorably scheming animals scurrying 
back and forth across the screen. Another animated 
short, Gerald McBoing Boing, used sound effects to tell 
the charming story of a boy who spoke not in words, but 
in outrageous sounds like the honk of a horn or the boom 
of explosives.
Cyborgs of Sound & Lesley Flanigan
In contrast to the more educational, historically 
based Friday night ?lm screening, the Saturday night 
performances by local electronic musicians brought an 
explosion of experimental sounds to Kresge Theatre. 
Each of the four artists brought something very new  
at times both beautiful and abrasive  to the stage.
The event opened with Carnegie Mellon adjunct 
professor of art and internationally renowned musician 
Eric Singer and his robotic guitar  although by Singers 
own admission, the robo-guitar did most of the work. 
I have a very important role in tonights performance, 
Singer joked. I press go and it takes over.
The bizarre-looking instrument consisted of four vertical 
black slabs, each with small objects moving up and 
down central strings like beads on an abacus. It looked 
somewhat like a strange, wobbling, four-eyed alien with 
rotating red pupils. And when Singer did press go, the 
result was a disjointed but somehow rhythmic series 
of beeps and boops, layered over a steady strumming 
sound and a solid bass in a kind of computerized 
chirping. It was a fascinating and impressive 
accomplishment; the complex robotic sounds occurred 
in complete synchronization.
Local artist and musician Jeremy Boyle took the 
stage next with a similar concept, although his 
instrumentation drew a much stronger resemblance 
to what were used to, complete with a drum set 
and an electric guitar resting on a stand. But upon 
The annual wats:ON? festival makes a ruckus in the College of Fine Arts
In keeping with this years theme of NOISE, the art and architecture festival offers diverse, educational, and inspiring presentations on music and sound 
Local electronic musician and instrument builder Michael Johnsen filled Kresge Theatre with an experimental 
cacophony of sounds using this onstage array of cables and boxes.
                  Andrew Viny | Junior Photographer
by Rachel Cohen | Pillbox Editor[]closer inspection, it was clear that the setup was far 
from ordinary: Wires ran from each of the percussion 
instruments, and the guitar was equipped with a 
small robot somewhat similar to Singers robo-guitar. 
Clasped around the ?ngerboard was an object that eerily 
resembled a hand pressing down on the strings, and on 
the body of the guitar, small mite-like constructs reached 
out and plucked individual strings.
The music itself started out haunting and high-pitched, 
with wooden ?ute-like tones emanating from the 
instruments. Boyle supplemented these sounds with 
an eletric guitar he played himself. A few times, Boyle 
leaned back and took a water break as his instruments 
carried the music for him. As opposed to Singers 
rhythmically convoluted pieces, Boyle preferred 
simplicity and beauty to complexity.
Local instrument builder Michael Johnsens 
performance, however, can only be described as 
complete auditory chaos. Right from the onset, the 
theater was ?lled with a rapid, deafening, and furious 
series of random sounds  a hectic, incessant barrage 
of clicks and squeaks. The artist sat onstage looking over 
a tangle of boxes and wires, regularly leaning forward to 
dial up or down certain sounds.
For the most part, the experience was downright 
unpleasant: Some of the sounds were so shrill that a few 
audience members clapped their hands over their ears. 
When the cacophony ended and Johnsen exited the 
stage with a simple thanks, many of the the audience 
members breathed a sigh of relief. The inundating 
effect was interesting on a theoretical level and most 
likely intentional  but that didnt make the sensory 
experience any less uncomfortable.
The festival organizers held a brief intermission before 
the ?nal performance by experimental electronic 
musician Lesley Flanigan. Flanigans setup looked 
somewhat similar to Johnsens, though more organized; 
she kneeled over a collection of wooden box-looking 
instruments, a microphone in hand. When the music 
began, it was blissfully different from Johnsens.
Flanigan began by blending her own vocals with the 
instruments for simple, pure-sounding octaves before 
branching into different harmonies. She used the 
microphone to amplify different elements, ?rst holding it 
to her mouth and then dipping it gracefully over each of 
the instruments, creating soft swells of sound.
The piece grew in volume and complexity. Like the 
musicians she followed, Flanigan embraced dissonance 
and abrasiveness in her work, allowing certain shrill, 
crackling noises to become almost deafening at points. 
Occasionally, Flanigans sultry voice came through, 
enchanting the audience with her beautiful vibrato.
Of the four artists, Flanigans work had the most 
potential for transportation: During her piece, listeners 
could allow their minds to wander, imagine, and enter 
a totally different world. Her piece was undoubtedly 
a favorite of the evening. After the sounds faded and 
Flanigan stood up, Kresge erupted with cheers and 
applause.
All four artists were true performers in that, during 
their acts, their actions were almost as important as the 
music. Although the noise was the focus of the evening 
 and of the entire festival  it was just as fascinating 
to watch the process of music-making unfold as to listen 
to the result.
It is a testament to the success of the festival that two of 
its events alone could be so enthralling yet so different; 
this diversity only added to the educational and 
awareness-raising value of the festival. Both events left 
guests thinking, questioning, and wanting to experience 
more  a sign that wats:ON? 2013 did exactly what it 
set out to do.
Editors note: Matthew Zurcher is a staffwriter for The 
Tartan.
Jonathan Leung | Assistant Photo EditorJos Lopez | Staff PhotographerJonathan Leung | Assistant Photo Editor
Left: Graduate student in film Jeff Hinkelman leads a talk and screening on the history of sound in film. Center: Carnegie Mellon art professor Eric Singers robotic guitar 
plays computerized music. Right: Artist and engineer Dan Wilcox hosts a workshop in the STUDIO for Creative Inquiry on using graphical programming to make sound.

---------------------------------------------------

10community
pillbox 04.08.13
Travel writer Pico Iyer spoke at Carnegie Mellon last 
Tuesday as part of the ongoing Adamson Writers 
Series. A writer for Time magazine since 1986, Iyer 
has authored multiple ?ction and non?ction books, 
with his latest being The Man Within My Head.
The title of the lecture was Moving and Sitting Still 
in Our New Global Order and primarily discussed 
how, in todays internationally minded society, many 
people straddle different cultures and places they 
can accurately call home. Iyer had much insight on 
the subject: He traced his family roots to India, split 
his youth between boarding schools in England 
and his parents home in Santa Barbara, and talked 
about how he now spends seven months of the year 
in Japan.
While billed as a lecture, the event was anything 
but. Iyer opened by saying he wished to have a 
conversation instead of just talking, and that kind of 
informal mood pervaded the event. Iyer didnt use 
a PowerPoint presentation and didnt speak as if he 
were carefully arguing a point. He shared humorous 
anecdotes about friends such as the Dalai Lama, of 
whom Iyer is a close companion; in fact, Iyer wrote 
an account of his travels with His Holiness in his 
book The Open Road. Iyer also spoke charismatically 
and energetically about events in his life and the 
lessons he took from them, which kept his modest 
audience very much engaged and hanging on to his 
every word.
While his talk was somewhat disappointing in that 
it lacked focused points, Iyer made many interesting 
small points about where people come from in 
todays society, eloquently spinning them into 
phrases such as stained-glass homes, and saying 
that, Home is where you become yourself. As his 
own globe-hopping proves, he doesnt see home 
as an exact place; instead, he sees home as a state 
of mind and a de?nition of the self. He says that the 
greatest pressure of the modern moment is to ?gure 
out where we belong both physically and internally 
 a relevant idea at a place so full of different 
nationalities as Carnegie Mellon.
Iyer also expressed his excitement at how our 
increasingly globalized society introduces new 
sights, sounds, and smells into daily life that 
we often may not notice or take for granted. For 
example, how often do any of us eat cuisine from 
different areas of the world for each individual meal 
of the day? The fact that he was able to bring in 
these kinds of little details from our everyday lives 
and connect them to such grander themes helped 
make the talk extremely thought-provoking.
At the end of his talk, Iyer enthusiastically answered 
many questions from the audience, some in 
response to his talk and others that had clearly been 
rattling around in peoples heads for a while. 
When asked why he chooses to spend so much of 
his time in Japan, he replied that it was a country 
with a mix of energy and serenity, and that being a 
foreigner in Japan allows one to enjoy a combination 
of familiarity and strangeness without the social 
pressures that natives feel. In response to an excited 
audience member holding up his interview with 
Leonard Cohen that had come out in Time earlier 
that day, he talked about his experience living 
in a monastery with the famed poet, singer, and 
songwriter. He also attributed the recent increase 
in interest in Cohens works to the idea that our 
increasingly complicated lives are losing the kind of 
simplicity and honesty that he embodies.
The ?nal question asked whether Iyer had ever 
been to the Japanese region of Hokkaido, which is 
famed for its beauty. Iyer responded that he has yet 
to make it there and desperately wants to as well. It 
turns out that, for all the traveling that Iyer has done 
over the years, there are still places he wants to go.
Joey Peiser | Junior Staffwriter 
Iyer de?nes concept of home
Travel writer explains home as an expression of self
Rachel Cohen | Pillbox Editor
Catherine Spence | Staffwriter
Did you know?
100years ago
March 13, 1913
The Tartan Song Contest ends 
on March 31, and the Tartan staff 
encourages all members of the 
Carnegie Tech community to submit 
an entry. The song should be easy to 
sing, hum, whistle, or play on the hurdy 
gurdy.
50years ago
April 3, 1963
Carnegie Tech awarded the thirdhighest number of Ph.D. degrees 
in engineering during the 196162 
academic year, according to a 
study of U.S. universities with at 
least one approved Ph.D. program 
in engineering. Carnegie Tech 
offers Ph.D. degrees in chemical, 
civil, electrical, mechanical, and 
metallurgical engineering.
25years ago
April 12, 1988
A water main break in Hamerschlag 
Hall caused a power blackout in Boss 
House, Hamerschlag House, Margaret 
Morrison Apartments, Scaife Hall, Hunt 
Library, GSIA, and Skibo Gymnasium. 
The break also caused flooding in 
Scobell Hall, and students have been 
forced to evacuate to the west end of 
the basement or to local hotels.
10years ago
April 7, 2003
In preparation for Spring Carnival, 
the Science and Technology section 
features an article titled, How Things 
Work: Alcohol. The science behind 
the article is sound, and the author 
suggests that if youre going to get 
drunk, you might as well know why its 
happening.
5years ago
April 7, 2008
Just a week after Barack Obamas 
appearance at Soldiers & Sailors 
Memorial Hall, Michelle Obama makes 
her Pittsburgh appearance at Skibo 
Gymnasium. Some question a decision 
made by the event committee to reseat 
people sitting behind Mrs. Obama 
based on race. 
1year ago
April 9, 2012
The Forum section explores issues with 
student government during this years 
election season. From a GSA president 
who falsely claimed his group had 
quorum to the possible impeachment 
of the student body president, the 
writer is frustrated with the apathy that 
these leaders seem to adopt.

---------------------------------------------------

comics
pillbox 04.08.1311
Sittin on the Fence by Charlie Shulman and Kairavi Chahal
cshulman@andrew.cmu.edu
Crinkled Comics by Juan Fernandez
jjfernan@andrew.cmu.educrinkledcomics.com

---------------------------------------------------

12comics
pillbox 04.08.13
Wrong Hands by John Atkinson
wronghands1@gmail.comwrongshands1.wordpress.com
Piled Higher and Deeper by Jorge Cham
jorge@phdcomics.comphdcomics.com

---------------------------------------------------

puzzles
pillbox 04.08.1313
Solutions from Apr. 1
CrosswordMedium DifficultyHard Difficulty
Kakuro Puzzle: Easy Difficulty Sudoku Puzzle: Very Hard Difficulty
Sudoku courtesy of
www.opensky.ca/~jdhildeb/software/sudokugen/Kakuro courtesy of www.KrazyDad.com
Fill all empty squares using numbers 1 to 9 so the sum of 
each row equals the clue on its left, and the sum of each 
column equals the clue on its top. No number may be used 
in the same row or column more than once.

---------------------------------------------------

14horoscopes
pillbox 04.08.13
1. Japanese beer brand
2. Spoil
3. Speed
4. Betel palm
5. E or G, e.g.
6. Id hate to break up ___
7. Bone to pick
8. Cochise, for one
9. Rake
10. Exodus hero
11. Hazardous gas
12. Wombs
13. Red Bordeaux
18. Flyers org.
21. Bon ___!
25. Cornerstone abbr.
26. Destiny
27. Brutal
28. Hostess Perle
29. Canadian prov.
30. Colorful carp
31. Canonized Mlle.
32. Deconstruct
34. Frozen Wasser
35. Hosp. workers
36. Cpl.s superior
38. Sealed document
39. Draft choice
44. Entertained
45. Actress Davis
46. Lingo
47. Hives
48. Devoted follower
49. Bikini blast
50. Home movie medium
51. Convex molding
52. Of the kidneys
55. Hint
56. River to the Ubangi
57. Crown of the head
59. Sky light
1. Turkish title
5. Arrest
8. Old call to arms
14. Skyrocket
15. Sugar suffix
16. Buccaneer
17. Type of ballot
19. Put up with
20. Forbidding countenance
22. Acapulco gold
23. Model
24. Pertaining to the mind
26. Clinging shellfish
29. Approves
32. Recipient
33. Anatomical passages
37. In spite of
40. Layers
41. Functional
42. Fast flier
43. Office of a Muslim cleric
45. Buddha
48. Goodwill
53. Sin
54. Not written
58. Discharges
60. Pressured
61. Small node
62. Last: Abbr.
63. Actress Ward
64. Did penance
65. Extra-wide shoe size
66. Implement
ACROSSDOWN
Style-oscopes
aries
march 21april 19
Those funky shades you liked? Get them. Youll pull them 
off.
taurus
april 20may 20
Trench coat. Sexy lingerie. Enough said.
gemini
may 21june 21
Geek is chic. Plaid trousers, suspenders, and nerdy 
glasses.
cancer
june 22july 22
Be ready for any spur-of-the-moment dates that may 
happen.
leo
july 23aug. 22 
Feel free to walk around campus in pajamas and a hoodie.
virgo
aug. 23sept. 22
Oh, fancy: Jimmy Choos and Prada handbags are in your 
future.
libra
sept. 23oct. 22
Just wear whatever Bradley Cooper was wearing in that 
movie. Chicks will dig it.
scorpio
oct. 23nov. 21
Walking around dressed as the black Power Ranger is 
perfectly acceptable. Its morphin time!
sagittarius
nov. 22dec. 21
Its spring. Put some color in your wardrobe.
capricorn
dec. 22jan. 19
A red suit will help you look fly.
aquarius
jan. 20feb. 18
Clothing with a tribal vibe is in this season.
pisces
feb. 19march 20
Indulge yourself this week. That outfit looks so fiiine  its 
worth it.
Kairavi Chahal | Comics Editor
Crossword courtesy of BestCrosswords.com

---------------------------------------------------

calendar
pillbox 04.08.1315
MONDAY4.8.13
Toots and the Maytals. Mr. Smalls Theatre. 8 p.m.
Jamaican musical group Toots and the Maytals (originally 
called The Maytals) will perform at Mr. Smalls Theatre. 
The group is a well-known ska vocal group that formed 
in the early 1960s. More information and tickets are 
available at mrsmalls.com.
TUESDAY4.9.13
Yoram Bauman, the Stand-Up Economist. 
McConomy Auditorium. 5:30 p.m.
AB Comedy and AB Political Speakers present a 
performance by Dr. Yoram Bauman, The Stand-up 
Economist. The educational comedy event is free.
Diana Krall. Heinz Hall. 7:30 p.m.
Singer and pianist Diana Krall will perform at Heinz 
Hall, following the release of her recent album Glad 
Rag Doll. More information and tickets are available at 
pittsburghsymphony.org.
WEDNESDAY4.10.13
Aaron Koblin lecture. STUDIO for Creative Inquiry 
(College of Fine Arts 111). 4:30 p.m.
Aaron Koblin, new media artist and director of the 
Data Arts Team at Googles Creative Lab, will give a 
talk on his recent projects, including his artistic and 
musical endeavors. More information is available at 
studioforcreativeinquiry.org.
Team Spirit. 6119 (6119 Penn Ave.). 8:30 p.m.
Ayad Al Adhamy (formerly of Passion Pit) and his Team 
Spirit bandmates will perform at 6119 this Wednesday. 
More information and tickets can be found at 
druskyentertainment.com.
THURSDAY4.11.13
Suzanne Anglewicz lecture. Rangos 1. 5 p.m.
Last week, students heard one side of the gun control 
debate when a CeaseFirePA representative spoke 
on campus. This week, NRA representative Suzanne 
Anglewicz will give a talk on the NRAs perspective on 
recent ?rearms controversies and legislation. The lecture 
is sponsored by AB Political Speakers and is free.
Majora Carter lecture. Carnegie Library of Oakland. 
5:30 p.m.
Urban sustainability activist Majora Carter will speak in 
Oakland on Thursday. Carter is known for her green 
development in the South Bronx community and often 
speaks on topics like gentri?cation versus improvement 
of poor neighborhoods. The lecture is part of the Inspire 
Speaker Series, a collaboration of Phipps Conservatory 
and the Green Building Alliance. More information and 
tickets can be found at www.go-gba.org.
FRIDAY4.12.13
LIVE ARCHIVE exhibit opening. 3011 Smallman St. 
7 p.m.
LIVE ARCHIVE is a collaborative exhibit that features work 
by ?rst- and second-year Master of Fine Arts students 
from Carnegie Mellon and from the School of the Art 
Institute of Chicago (SAIC). Works exhibited range from 
art and technology, performance, social practice, and 
installation to kinetic and BioArt. An opening reception 
will be held on Friday until midnight. More information and 
gallery hours are available at cmu-saic.com.
SATURDAY4.13.13
Sevendust. Altar Bar. 7 p.m.
Atlanta-based heavy metal band Sevendust will perform 
at the Altar Bar in the Strip District. More information and 
tickets are available at thealtarbar.com.
ONGOING
Carnegie Mellon International Film Festival.
McConomy Auditorium. Through April 13.
Sponsored by the Humanities Center, the Carnegie 
Mellon International Film Festival presents Faces of 
Media. This years festival features Pittsburgh-premiere 
screenings of over a dozen award-winning ?lms from all 
over the world. More information on the festival, including 
information about tickets and screenings, can be found at 
cmu.edu/faces.
Basement Miracle: 2013 MFA Thesis Exhibition. 
Miller Gallery. Through April 21.
Master of Fine Arts candidates Scott Andrew, Felipe 
Castelblanco, Craig Fahner, Steve Gurysh, Luke Loef?er, 
Dan Wilcox, and Erin Womack present their ?nal work in 
this thesis exhibition. More information, including gallery 
hours, is available at millergallery.cfa.cmu.edu.
Compiled by Allison Cosby | Contributing Editor
Want your event here?
Email calendar@thetartan.org.

---------------------------------------------------

16feature
pillbox 04.08.13
Peter Leeman | Junior Photographer
On Saturday, AB Coffeehouse hosted a free concert in Weigand 
Gymnasium featuring electronic pop artist Zola Jesus. She has 
released three albums since her debut in 2009, the ?rst of which was 
recorded in her dorm room at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. 
zola jesus.
