FORUMSPORTSPILLBOX
Carnegie Mellons student newspaper since 1906
School of Drama wins humanities grant  B8Football team defeats University of Chicago  A10Citizens owe it to veterans, country to vote  A6
thetartan.org
@thetartan
November 5, 2012
Volume 107, Issue 10
Unraveling the activites fee: Where does your money go?
ANNA WALSH 
Personnel Manager
When considering the submitted organization budgets 
last spring, the Joint Funding 
Committee (JFC) had to sort 
through over $1.6 million in 
requests. The committee only 
ended up allocating $1.12 million, meaning that it had to 
tighten restrictions on what 
could be funded  and one of 
the costs that didnt make the 
cut was spring break trips.
For Alternative Break, a 
student group that plans service-based trips, JFCs decision was a huge blow, said 
Sabrina Larkin, the clubs 
president and a junior chemical engineering and engineering and public policy double 
major. The organization requested over $18,000 from 
JFC, but only received $204.
This stretching of resources is the reason that Student 
Body Vice President for Finance Jon Mark is proposing 
a $24 increase per semester 
to the student activities fee. 
The programming supported 
by the fee has essentially outgrown resources that we can 
give it, he said at a town hall 
meeting about the activities 
fee, held last Thursday. A lot 
of these organizations have 
come up to us and told us that 
the funding that were giving 
them, considering the rate 
of in?ation [and] the rate of 
what weve been having to cut 
them, they just cant keep up, 
and they certainly cant grow.
The fee increase, which 
would go into effect next academic year, will go up for a referendum vote this Thursday 
through Saturday. The vote 
is split into two referendums: 
one to raise the undergraduate fee, and one to raise the 
graduate fee.
However, when one considers that the activities fee 
this year collected over $2.4 
million, it raises the question: 
Where does all that money go?
The source of the money
Carnegie Mellons Board 
of Trustees sets the activities 
fee every year, taking into account recommendations from 
student government. The fee 
is currently $97 per semester. 
Over the past several years, 
the fee has increased at an 
average rate of 2.4 percent. 
According to Mark, a senior 
lighting design major, student 
government has made its recommendations for increases 
based on the ?ve-year average 
of the Consumer Price Index, 
which tracks prices of various 
household goods in order to 
measure in?ation.
According to its ?scal policy, student government is allowed to recommend up to a 
5 percent increase in the fee 
without needing to call a referendum for students to vote 
on the increase.
But Student Body President 
Will Weiner, an economics 
and statistics and decision science double major, explained 
at the town hall meeting, One 
of our fears last year when we 
thought about [doing] the 5 
percent [increase] is that if you 
do that over ?ve years, a lot of 
the students may not necessarily notice. Its de?nitely harder 
to PR that and make sure were 
really re?ecting what people 
want, so I think in terms of 
transparency and getting the 
proper feedback all at once, 
[the 25 percent increase] is a 
better solution.
The Graduate Student 
Assembly
Once the Hub collects the 
funds for the activities fee, the 
money goes to different places 
depending on who its from. 
The graduate students activities fee is divided and sent to 
three different locations: 30 
percent goes to JFCs funds, 45 
percent goes to the Graduate 
Student Assembly (GSA), and 
25 percent goes back to the 
departments for students to 
distribute.
Although the percentage of 
the graduate students fee that 
goes toward JFC funds is lower 
than the percentage of the undergraduate fee, the GSA Vice 
President for Finance Patrick 
Foley, a Ph.D. candidate in 
statistics, believes that graduate students do not bene?t as 
Students seek voter pledges
NOL UM
Assistant News Editor 
Due to interest in student 
rights and advocacy on campus, Carnegie Mellon will 
found the ?rst chapter of the 
Student Public Interest Research Groups (PIRGs) organization in the state of Pennsylvania.
Student PIRGs is a studentfunded, nonpartisan, and 
nonpro?t organization that 
gives students the skills and 
opportunity to practice effective citizenship, according to 
the Student PIRGs website. 
Representatives from Student PIRGs have set up tables 
on campus since the beginning of this school year in order to encourage students to 
register to vote. 
The student interest garnered from tabling became 
the basis for a Carnegie Mellon chapter of the organization. 
Satvika Neti, a ?rst-year in 
the Science and Humanities 
Scholars program and head 
of Carnegie Mellons Student 
PIRG chapter, helped to start 
the club because although she 
wants to vote, she will not be 
of voting age this fall.
Neti said, Even though I 
wont be able to vote in this 
election, Im still really invested in it. So I wanted to make 
sure that other people had the 
chance that I wouldnt, and I 
feel that by helping people to 
vote, Im doing much more 
than I would with my one vote 
anyway.
The Student PIRG club 
consists of around 30 members, ranging from ?rst-years 
to seniors. 
They are currently focusing on the new voters project 
until the election and then 
will focus on social initiatives, 
including equal rights for 
women and the decreasing of 
textbook rates and tuition.
Bradley Hodge, an undeclared ?rst-year in the Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
did not originally intend to 
vote. 
However, with Student 
PIRGs, he became interested 
and began to get involved.
Hodge said, Sometimes 
you dont care because you 
think, My votes not going 
to matter, but especially for 
Pennsylvania, as a swing 
state, its really important. 
You see these old guys in 
government and you think, 
Theyre not in tune with my 
ideas and theyre not going to 
be able to represent me, but if 
you get students out in force, 
you can get them to be a driving force for what they want 
in government.
According to Daniel Walker-Murray, a campus organizer for Student PIRGs, youth 
voter turnout has increased 
by about 21 percent since the 
last presidential election, and 
the number of students who 
claim they are intellectually 
involved with the election has 
increased by 13 percent. 
Neti cited progress with 
student rights as a reason for 
this increased voting interest 
among college students.
If we want more federal 
funding for student loans, we 
have to let them know. If we 
want to change the world, we 
have to let them know to start 
listening to us. One way to do 
that is by voting, she said.
Walker-Murray said that 
Student PIRGs stopped the 
doubling of student interest rates in Pennsylvania and 
helped to pass the Student 
Aid and Fiscal Responsibility 
Act that will add $36 billion 
into the Pell grant program.
From Walker-Murrays 
perspective, this progress 
shows that the Student PIRGs 
are a force to be reckoned 
with.... If we just organize 
ourselves and can channel all 
of our thoughts and energy in 
the right direction, and once 
you give [students] the tools 
they need to do these things, 
its really incredible what they 
can do.
For the past few weeks, the 
Student PIRGs chapter has set 
up tables on the Cut in order 
to encourage students to sign 
voter pledges. 
Students can sign a card 
promising to text their friends 
reminding them to vote.
Neti said the three-part 
system of voter pledging  
which includes signing a card, 
calling by phone, and texting 
 is new this year, and she 
hopes that it will encourage 
students to go out to the polls.
We are having some 
phone bank blitzes this weekend to continue contacting 
the student body because we 
found through our research 
that students are more likely 
to show up to the polls by 
four percentage points if they 
receive text messages from 
someone they know, WalkerMurray said. 
Compared to other college campuses which Student 
PIRGs has reached out to, 
Carnegie Mellon was leading 
the nation for a few weeks in 
the number of voters registered on campus.
We were beating schools 
out that had six times the 
number of people that we 
had, Walker-Murray said. 
Carnegie Mellon has 
about 6,000 people, and we 
had organizers at the University of Texas at Dallas that has 
about 36,000 students, and 
obviously toward the end of 
the student drive they beat us 
out, but we got a lot of people 
interested in volunteering 
to spread the word to their 
peers.
Student PIRGs across the 
country have a 40-year history of advocating for students, the environment, and 
consumers, according to the 
PennPIRGs website.
Walker-Murray said, The 
end goal of our organization 
is to ?nd the things that students care the most about on 
campus and then work to organize them, and have representatives in the capitals so 
that they can have their voice 
heard not only on the school 
level but on a state level. We 
can start to make real changes 
for these people.
Editors note: Satvika Neti is 
a junior staffwriter for The 
Tartan.
MADELYN GLYMOUR
News Editor 
KYLE HENSON  
Staffwriter
As election season draws 
to a close, the candidates for 
the presidency are making 
their last speeches in the 11 
battleground states that will 
decide which candidate gains 
the 270 votes necessary to 
win the election and goes on 
to occupy the Oval Of?ce this 
January.
There are a total of 538 
electoral votes at play in the 
presidential election. In order 
to be elected president, a candidate must win a majority of 
the votes  in other words, at 
least 270.
Electoral votes are allotted 
based on the popular vote in 
each state. A state has a certain number of electoral votes 
apportioned by population; 
the candidate who wins the 
popular vote in each state 
wins all of that states popular votes (except for the few 
states that allow split electoral votes). In this electoral 
cycle, there are a surprisingly 
large number of states that 
are considered toss-ups.
The 11 battleground states 
in which both President 
Barack Obama and Republican candidate Mitt Romney 
stand a chance of winning are 
New Hampshire, with four 
electoral votes; Iowa and Nevada, with six electoral votes 
each; Colorado, with nine 
electoral votes; Wisconsin, 
with 10 electoral votes; Virginia, with 13 electoral votes; 
North Carolina, with 15 electoral votes; Michigan, with 
16 electoral votes; Ohio, with 
18 electoral votes; Pennsylvania, with 20 electoral votes; 
and Florida, with 29 electoral 
votes.
The other 39 states are 
fairly reliable to go either 
Republican or Democrat, 
leaving Obama with a virtually guaranteed 201 electoral 
votes, and Romney with 191. 
The battle for the presidency 
lies in the battleground states 
collective 146 electoral votes.
Obama won the 2008 
election with 365 electoral 
votes; he swept the battleground states, including the 
traditionally red Indiana, 
North Carolina, and Virginia. 
This year, however, the race 
is much closer. Romney has 
seen positive poll data in the 
traditionally blue Michigan, 
Minnesota, and Pennsylvania; meanwhile, Florida and 
Ohio remain as important 
now as they have been in past 
years.
The political aggregator 
site RealClearPolitics averages poll data from many local 
and national political polls. 
According to the sites averaged polls, Obama is up 1.5 
percent in New Hampshire, 
2.5 percent in Iowa, 2.8 percent in Nevada, 0.6 percent 
in Colorado, 5 percent in Wisconsin, 4 percent in Michigan, 
2.8 percent in Ohio, and 4.1 
percent in Pennsylvania; and 
Romney is up 0.3 percent in 
Virginia, 3.8 percent in North 
Carolina, and 1.4 percent in 
Florida.
If the averages given by  
RealClearPolitics represented 
actual popular vote totals, 
Obama would take 290 electoral votes and Romney 248, 
giving Obama the presidency. 
Even if Obama lost the two 
states where the poll results 
Electoral College explained
See ELECTION, A3
See FEE, A3
Jonathan Carreon/Photo Editor
The poll percentages of the electoral college votes in 11 battleground 
states that President Barack Obama and Republican candidate Mitt 
Romney are vying for, according to political aggregator RealClearPolitics. 
Obama, represented by the blue bars, is leading with 290 electoral 
votes over Romney, represented by the red bars, with 248. 
Chloe Chia/Junior Artist

---------------------------------------------------

A2  thetartan.org/news The Tartan  November 5, 2012
Chris Pullman
Monday at 5 p.m. 
Margaret Morrison A14
Chris Pullman, the vice 
president of design for 
WGBH public broadcasting 
in Boston, will deliver a lecture titled The Future is Not 
What You Thought it Would 
Be as part of the School of 
Designs Designing the Future lecture series. 
Pullman is responsible 
for the on-air titles, credits, 
animation, promotional and 
sales support, classroom materials, and interactive media for WGBH, where he has 
worked for 35 years. 
WGBH was given the 
American Institute of Graphic Arts Design Leadership 
Award in 1985, and Pullman 
received the institutes Gold 
Medal in 2002.
Simon Kim and Mark 
Yim
Monday at 6 p.m.  
Carnegie Museum of Art 
Theater
Simon Kim and Mark Yim, 
the directors of Immersive 
Kinematics, will give a talk as 
part of the School of Designs 
fall lecture series. 
Immersive Kinematics, a 
collaboration between the 
University of Pennsylvanias 
schools of engineering and 
design, is a research group 
focused on integrating interactive robotics into buildings 
and cities. 
Kim is a professor of architecture, and Yim is a professor of mechanical engineering and applied mechanics.
Moyra Davey
Tuesday at 5 p.m. 
Kresge Theater
Artist Moyra Davey will 
deliver a lecture as part of the 
School of Arts Fall 2012 lecture series. Davey has been a 
photographer since the 70s, 
and has recently produced 
three narrative videos. The 
most recent, Les Goddesses, tells the story of a series 
of coincidences connecting 
the lives of Mary Wollstonecraft  18th-century British writer, philosopher, and 
womens rights advocate  
her daughters, and Daveys 
?ve sisters.
John Eakin
Thursday at 4:30 p.m. 
Gregg Hall (Porter 100)
Indiana University emeritus English professor John 
Eakin will deliver a lecture 
titled Leading and Making 
Lives: One Mans Story. He 
has studied autobiographical 
narrative since the 70s and 
has authored multiple books 
on the subject. Eakins lecture 
will explore the way that humans tell the stories of their 
own lives.
Compiled by
MADELYN GLYMOUR
Corrections & Clari?cations
In the article, Researchers create screens that can 
differentiate users (Scitech, Oct. 29), Ligia Nistors 
name was misspelled. 
If you would like to submit a correction or clari?cation, please e-mail The Tartan at news@thetartan.org 
or editor@thetartan.org with your inquiry, as well as 
the date of the issue and the name of the article. We will 
print the correction or clari?cation in the next print issue and publish it online.
Lecture Preview
Carnegie Mellon information technology and marketing professor Michael Smith 
and information systems professor Rahul Telang will lead 
a new interdisciplinary effort 
called the Initiative for Digital Entertainment Analytics 
(IDEA).
IDEA will study the managerial and public policy problems that new digital entertainment distribution options 
present.
Smith said in a university 
press release, The digital age 
has fundamentally changed 
how people consume and 
produce entertainment including movies, television, 
music and books.
Our goal is to inform billion-dollar revenue streams 
for an industry experiencing 
rapid changes. The research 
is heavily data driven, which 
can answer questions that are 
not only useful and important to business and policymakers, but can also create 
new methods and scienti?c 
knowledge, Telang said in 
the press release.
The IDEA project is made 
possible with a grant from 
the Motion Picture Association of  America.
Compiled by
MADELYN GLYMOUR
Carnegie Mellon alumnus David Murray (CFA and 
SCS 06) has secured a spot 
on Bravos new reality show, 
Start-Ups: Silicon Valley.
Murray  who graduated 
from Carnegie Mellon with a 
triple major in computer science, vocal performance, and 
human-computer interaction  will be one of six entrepreneurs whom the show 
will follow in their attempts 
to launch a startup company. 
Murrays company is GoalSponsors.com, which matches people with mentors who 
help them to achieve a personal goal.
Between graduating from 
Carnegie Mellon and creating 
his startup, Murray worked 
for Google, Atari, and a social 
network startup for gamers 
called Raptr.
Murray said that he is 
ready for his reality show experience. 
This has proved to be the 
perfect opportunity for me, 
Murray said in a university 
press release. 
Even if the show is a ?op, 
we will have hundreds of 
thousands of viewers. And 
thats a great opportunity for 
me to promote my business.
Start-Ups: Silicon Valley 
premiers Monday night at 10 
p.m. EST.
CAMPUS NEWS IN BRIEF
Alumnus will star in startup Silicon Valley reality show
FEATURE PHOTOTreats but no tricks at Alumni House
WEATHER
TUESDAY
High / Low
50 / 30
WEDNESDAY
High / Low
52 / 35
THURSDAY
High / Low
47 / 35
FRIDAY
High / Low
53 / 40
SATURDAY
High / Low
63 / 46
Public Drunkenness
Oct. 28, 2012
A Carnegie Mellon security 
of?cer on a foot patrol of the 
Greek Quad observed an extremely intoxicated student 
behind the Kappa Sigma fraternity house. University Police and Carnegie Mellon EMS 
were summoned to assist. The 
male was treated on scene by 
EMS and will be cited for public drunkenness.
Alcohol Amnesty
Oct. 28, 2012
University Police and Carnegie Mellon EMS responded to 
the Alpha Epsilon Pi fraternity 
house to tend to an intoxicated Carnegie Mellon student. 
He was transported to the 
hospital for further treatment. 
Alcohol Amnesty applied to 
this incident.
Thefts
Oct. 29, 2012
University Police were 
summoned to Wean Hall for a 
theft report. A Carnegie Mellon graduate student and faculty member noticed several 
items missing over the last few 
weeks, including documents 
considered to be intellectual 
property. The thefts occurred 
in the 6300 corridor of Wean 
Hall. University Police are investigating this among other 
incidents that occurred in 
Wean Hall during the past few 
weeks.
Theft
Oct. 29, 2012
University Police were 
summoned to take a report of 
a stolen MacBook Pro laptop. 
The owner of the computer 
stated that, between the hours 
of 5 and 10 p.m. on Oct. 26, 
her laptop was taken out of 
Margaret Morrison. The laptop is valued at $1,300. The 
owner stated that she also had 
a camera in the area, but the 
camera was not taken. This investigation is ongoing.
Theft
Oct. 30, 2012
University Police took a 
theft report from a Carnegie 
Mellon student who lives in 
the Residence on Fifth. The 
student stated that she believes that she accidentally 
left her iPod in her room 
when she went home on Oct. 
17. When she returned, she 
discovered that her iPod was 
not there. University Police 
are following up.
Attempted Burglary
Oct. 31, 2012
University Police are looking into an attempted burglary 
of Carnegie Museums of?ces 
in the Graphic Arts Technical Foundation building. The 
crime occurred between Tuesday evening and Wednesday 
morning. Anyone with information should contact University Police. Information can be 
given con?dentially.
Conspiracy
Nov. 1, 2012
An investigation into the 
theft of food and other property from CulinArt Services 
led to the arrest of two of their 
employees on Thursday. They 
admitted to a string of thefts 
and are being charged with 
theft, receiving stolen property, and criminal conspiracy. 
Campus Crime & Incident Reports
Statistically Speaking
After weathering Hurricane Sandy, those on the East 
Coast are assessing the damage and carrying out disaster relief programs. Fortunately, Pittsburgh wasnt hit 
with more than a storm, but other places, such as New 
York and New Jersey, have been torn apart.
8.2 million
$50 billion
113
The number of deaths in the U.S. currently attributed 
to Sandy.
20
The percentage of the New York subway system that is 
still closed down due to ?ooding from Sandy.
Compiled by 
JACKSON LANE
Sources: latimes.com,  
U.S. Department of Energy,  
New York Metropolitan Transit Authority,  
and nytimes.com
Source: www.accuweather.com
The approximate number of peple who lost electricity as a result 
of Sandy. 
Jennifer Coloma/Operations Manager
Alumni House held a Trick-or-Treat Open House for students last Wednesday as an opportunity for them to meet staff from the Of?ce of Alumni 
Relations and Annual Giving before the house closes for renovation. Candy, soda, and other Halloween treats were served. 
The upper bound of estimated damages from Sandy 
by forecasting ?rm Eqecat.
Professors to initiate digital entertainment research

---------------------------------------------------

November 5, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/news  A3
much from the organizations 
on campus. In a survey student government conducted 
last year, they asked organizations how many members 
they had who were grads and 
undergrads, and then they 
asked them, In your opinion, 
do you serve mostly grads, 
mostly undergrads, or a mix? 
And they also asked, Who do 
you bene?t in addition to the 
members of your organization?  Foley said. And what I 
did was I took the JFC budgets 
and matched them up to the 
survey answers.
At the town hall meeting, 
Mark said that 30 percent of 
the participants in organizations were graduate students, 
but Foley believes that number 
is not an accurate representation of graduate student bene?t from the activities fee.
My main issue with that 
is that that 30 percent number doesnt actually re?ect the 
dollars that come out of JFC, 
Foley said. And if you match 
up the members or the bene?-
ciaries of organizations with 
what theyre actually getting, 
youll ?nd that grad students 
get something closer to like, 16 
 or at highest, 20  percent 
of the dollars.
A fee raise would mean 
more money would go toward 
GSA; however, research conducted by a member of the National Association of Graduate 
and Professional Students suggested that Carnegie Mellons 
GSA is already one of the bestfunded graduate student governments in the country.
GSAs budget of $416,631 
covers graduate student social 
events; subsidized tickets for 
rafting, Kennywood, and movies; funds for graduate students to attend academic conferences; GSA sports teams; 
and research grants, among 
other expenses. Andy Schultz, 
a Ph.D. candidate in materials 
science and engineering and 
a current GSA representative, 
said, We dont need more 
money. 
When asked if he was in favor of the activities fee raise, 
Foley said, I cant speak for 
all of GSA  and I dont  but 
personally, no, Im not in favor 
of it.
Student Senate
Unlike the graduate students activities fee, only 10 
percent of the undergraduates student activities fee 
goes to Student Senate. Those 
funds go toward Senates various committees (Academic 
Affairs, Business Affairs, Campus Life, Communications, Finance, and Internal Development), as well as to funding 
events like Senate Week. Senate also pays for 25 percent 
of the Arts Pass program, and 
helps to cover the salary of student governments application 
engineer, sophomore information systems and computer science double major Carlos Diaz-Padron, who is responsible 
for the maintenance and upkeep of student governments 
various websites.
Most of Senates budget, 
however, ends up going to 
student organizations. According to the Student Senate policy, at least 25 percent 
of Senates budget is required 
to go toward special allocations funding, which provides 
?nancial support for events 
and organizations that bene?t 
Carnegie Mellon Universitys 
undergraduate students. 
Special allocations are 
meant to fund events that are 
new to Carnegie Mellon, costs 
that arise unexpectedly after 
budgets have been approved, 
and groups that are not funded by JFC. This academic 
year, Senate has set aside over 
$70,000, 61.4 percent of its 
budget, to go toward special 
allocations.
JFC funds
The vast majority of undergraduates student activities 
fee  90 percent of it  goes 
into the pool of JFCs funds. 
Between the undergraduate 
portion and the 30 percent 
from graduate students, approximately $1.12 million is 
available this year for student 
organizations. If both activities fee referendums pass in 
this weeks special election, an 
additional $314,000 will go toward JFCs funds.
During the spring semester, student organizations apply to JFC with budgets for 
the following academic year 
that state the speci?c items 
their budget will go toward. 
Every student organization is 
assigned a JFC representative 
who is supposed to answer 
their questions and walk them 
through the process. Once JFC 
reviews the budget and makes 
its recommendations, the 
organizations each have the 
opportunity to appeal JFCs 
recommendations. JFC then 
submits its ?nal budget recommendations for every organization to Student Senate and 
GSA, which make a decision 
on every budget near the end 
of April.
JFC distributes its funds 
based on the guidelines in its 
bylaws; its own decisions on 
how much the committee will 
contribute to cover speci?c 
types of budget requests, like 
food or travel expenses; and 
its impression of how much 
each organization contributes 
to the campus community.
The system, however, is not 
without ?aws. I think that 
[the JFC process] needs to 
fundamentally change, Mark 
said in an interview. He cited 
outdated metrics as one problem  for example, JFC only 
gives $60 per night to cover 
hotel expenses, but its really 
hard to ?nd a $60 hotel room 
and ?t four people in it. And 
thats the current expectation, Mark said.
Schultz, who sat on JFC 
last year, said JFC is such a 
big, large process that its really dif?cult to be consistent 
across all the groups, and its 
really dif?cult to try and ?nd 
a way to objectively look at 
which groups actually serve 
the community best and deserve the money theyre getting. He said, What happens 
is, essentially for every group 
 and with very rare exceptions in the last year, this is 
how it goes  you look at 
what theyre asking, you look 
at what their budget was last 
year, and you cut them down 
to 5 percent increase.
Mark also said that JFCs 
reliance on previous budgets 
is ?awed. It makes things really unfair.... Organizations 
who have historically had 
large budgets and groups that 
have not historically had large 
budgets [are] kind of staying 
around the status quo.
JFCs bylaws also make it 
dif?cult for new organizations 
to grow. Organizations that 
are applying for a budget for 
the ?rst time cannot receive 
more than $500, which, for 
new buggy team Apex, is far 
from suf?cient.
As a buggy organization, 
$500 will literally get us nothing, said Connor Hayes, a 
second-year architecture major and chairman for Apex. 
The organization applied for 
$3,970 from JFC, but since 
this was Apexs ?rst year as an 
organization, it only received 
$500. It seems like the way 
that they fund certain organizations does not re?ect what 
we can logically do. Buggys 
a very time-consuming thing, 
so to expect us to raise a lot of 
money  on top of being an 
organization that does what 
were doing  its not exactly 
a feasible thing, especially for 
a smaller organization that 
doesnt have the manpower of 
the bigger organizations.
It didnt help that they 
never received guidance from 
their JFC representative. Our 
JFC rep did not contact us one 
time, Hayes said. I reached 
out to him, and I was never 
given a response in return.
Mark agreed that JFC representatives are not always 
useful to organizations, which 
is why he wants to do more 
training for JFC reps, really 
making sure that they have the 
training that they need to do 
their job and to make sure that 
the process is clear for student 
organizations.
Schultz, however, said that 
there was another reason why 
the JFC was sometimes ineffective: Some of the larger 
organizations will ensure that 
someone from their staff is on 
JFC, so there were certain 
JFC reps [last year] that just 
didnt go to meetings, and they 
were there to speak for their 
groups that they were involved in, rather than to help 
the organizations which they 
were assigned to represent, he 
said.
For instance, the Activities 
Board (AB)  which is technically a standing committee of 
the student government, rather than a student organization 
 usually ensures that an AB 
member is on JFC that can 
make sure that they get their 
money, that can ?ght in the 
room, Schultz said. Last year, 
one of AB Committee chairs 
sat on JFC.
Ariel Liu, the executive 
chair for AB and a senior computer science major, said, I 
think that, because AB constitutes a large portion of the 
budget, that its important for 
JFC to recognize how we use 
that budget, and if there isnt 
someone from AB who is on 
JFC ... they wont be able to 
see all the different things that 
AB does.
Mark also indicated that 
organizations often overspend 
or misspend parts of their budget, citing an example of one 
organization that overspent 
on its food budget by 1,000 
percent. One of his priorities 
is therefore going to be making sure that groups are really 
doing what they say theyre 
doing, he said. There should 
be transparency between the 
JFC and the people that need 
to interact with it, so the fact 
that people feel that they cant 
be transparent in order to get 
what they need to operate, 
thats bad. So we need to ?gure out a way to ?x that.
Activities fee raise
Given the problems the current JFC process has, I think 
JFC needs a major overhaul on 
the whole process, Schultz 
said. While he acknowledged 
that many of JFCs problems 
are dif?cult problems that 
may not even have solutions, 
I dont see a reason to give 
JFC more money until they 
can ?gure out how to better 
allocate the money that they 
have now and [can] actually 
show that that process isnt as 
?awed as it is now.
But Mark said that through 
the changes he wants to implement, JFC will be better able 
to leverage dollars in a way 
to create the most impact. He 
said he wants to take a look at 
the system and do an overhaul 
?rst. But especially if we have 
more money coming into the 
system, we really need to do 
this; we really need to look at 
how were doing this and kind 
of take a step back.
Larkin is optimistic about 
the fee increase. I dont think 
it can be a bad thing, she 
said. It doesnt seem like a 
lot to me. Our organization in 
particular, if they can get that 
extra funding coming in, and 
the activities fee increase is 
something that can help along 
with that, it would make the 
overall experience much more 
positive for myself and for all 
of the participants.
In the meantime, she is 
staying positive for Alternative Breaks budget this year. 
Although the JFCs cuts were a 
loss, we knew that [it would 
be cut] coming into making 
the budget, and were hoping 
that we have accounted for 
that, that well have enough 
fundraising to make up for 
that at the end of the year.
JFC process ?awed, say student government insiders
from RealClearPolitics has 
him winning  New Hampshire and Colorado  he 
would retain 277 electoral 
votes and win the election. 
The New York Times political blogger Nate Silver said 
in a post on Saturday that in 
order for Romney to win the 
electoral college, state polls 
would have to be systematically oversampling Obama 
voters.
One interesting caveat in 
this presidential election is 
the possibility of an electoral 
college tie. Several possible 
scenarios can leave both candidates with a total of 269 
electoral votes. If Romney can 
win Florida, North Carolina, 
Virginia, Iowa, Colorado, and 
Nevada, hell be one shy of 
270. Similarly, Romney could 
lose Virginia, but win Florida, North Carolina, Ohio, 
Wisconsin, and either Iowa 
or Nevada for the same tied 
scenario. Silver considered 
the scenario in which both 
Romney and Obama win 269 
electoral votes to have a 0.2 
percent chance of happening.
If no candidate wins a majority of the votes, the House 
of Representatives votes for 
the President from among the 
three highest-voted candidates, and the Senate chooses the Vice President from 
among the two highest-voted 
vice presidential candidates. 
Each Senator casts one vote, 
but the House of Representatives votes in blocs by state. 
Each representative casts a 
vote, and the most popular 
candidate among the delegation from each state wins that 
states vote.
If the House vote ends 
in a tie, the 20th Amendment speci?es that the vice 
president-elect takes of?ce. If 
both the House and the Senate votes end in ties, federal 
law speci?es a successive list 
of people who should take of?ce, starting with the Speaker 
of the House.
In the history of the U.S., 
only John Quincy Adams 
has ever been elected by the 
House of Representatives.
There is also the possibility 
that a faithless elector could 
shake up the count. An elector 
is a person who represents a 
state in the Electoral College. 
Electors cast the actual votes 
that determine the President. 
Different states appoint their 
electors differently, and not 
all states legally require electors to vote for the candidate 
who won the states popular 
vote. A faithless elector is an 
elector who votes against the 
will of his or her states popular vote.
Faithless electors are relatively rare; the most recent 
instance was in 2004, and 
in the 20th and 21st centuries, no election has ever had 
more than one. In addition, 
some states have laws that 
invalidate the votes of faithless electors. Unless the race 
is already extremely close, 
faithless electors are unlikely 
to impact the outcome.
There is  the possibility of a 
disparity between the electoral vote and the popular vote, 
as in 2000. Silver places the 
odds of Obama winning the 
popular vote and losing the 
electoral vote at 1.1 percent, 
and vice-versa at 5.7 percent. 
If the election had been held 
just a few days ago, according 
to the RealClearPolitics averages, Romney would have 
won the popular vote, but lost 
the electoral vote.
All electoral math and 
possible constitutional crises 
aside, the race will probably 
come down to Ohio. Silver 
has Ohio with a 50 percent 
chance of being the deciding 
state, far more likely than Virginia, the next highest, at 15 
percent. Once Ohios votes 
are tallied, it seems likely that 
the U.S. will know who its 
next President will be.
Candidates grapple for 270
ELECTION, from A1
FEE, from A1
...the fact that 
people feel that 
they cant be 
transparent 
in order to get 
what they need 
to operate, 
thats bad.
Jon Mark
Student Body Vice 
President for Finance
Alan Vangpat/Senior Artist

---------------------------------------------------

A4  thetartan.org/scitech The Tartan  November 5, 2012
JENNIFER GOLDA
Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellon welcomed two 20 Under 20 Thiel 
Fellowship ?nalists into its 
class of ?rst-years this fall. 
Obawole Idowu in the Carnegie Institute of Technology 
and Vijay Viswanathan in the 
Mellon College of Science 
spent four days in San Francisco this summer competing 
for a $100,000 fellowship; the 
competition is chronicled in 
the second season of the popular CNBC show 20 Under 20: 
Transforming Tomorrow.
Although neither won 
the grand prize, Idowu and 
Viswanathan still have a lot to 
boast about. Each has already 
accomplished more research 
than many Carnegie Mellon 
undergraduates in their respective ?elds.
For his presentation in the 
Lightning Pitch round of the 
competition, 15-year-old Idowu said, My goal is to be disruptive in providing access to 
mobile technology. His idea? 
A self-powering pair of smartphone sunglasses called Soul 
Aurum. The glasses would 
use solar array lenses and induction from coils wrapped 
around the frame, with an 
alloy that would change magnetic properties in warm climates.
This use of temperature 
and sun for power would 
make this type of technology 
ideal for its target audience: 
the mobile markets in Africa, Latin America, and Asia, 
where most of the worlds 1.5 
billion people without electricity or internet live.
The topic of self-sustaining, mobile technology inspires Idowu not as a business 
strategy, but as an opportunity to do something good for 
the world. The reason he is 
interested in mobile devices 
that support the internet is 
because more people can be 
connected online and share 
their ideas about how they 
can change the world, he 
said.
Allowing those without 
easy access to electricity to 
have smartphone devices 
would provide them with 
more than just the advantages 
one takes for granted everyday. As Idowu explained, the 
bene?t of communication is 
critical for the quality of life.
Such movements could 
have huge impacts on individuals in ?elds of business 
and medicine. Asha Thomas, 
a senior double majoring in 
business administration and 
global studies, agreed. From 
her three trips to underdeveloped communities in Panama 
with Carnegie Mellons Global Business Brigades, she experienced ?rsthand the type 
of environments that would 
bene?t most from technologies like Soul Aurum.
In all of the communities 
we visited, they had sparse 
electricity, if any at all, she 
said. One of the communities did have their few lights 
running on solar power, so 
that fact puts me at ease when 
thinking about the adoption of this technology in the 
communities. Its areas like 
these in Panama that Idowu 
hopes to help with further 
research.
Viswanathans research 
also has large goals. In a presentation he made called 
Developing a Computational 
Model of Blood Platelet Morphology with Fluid Dynamics 
Applications, Viswanathan 
described his work in creating 
geometric and 3-D computer 
models of blood platelets.
One of the problems with 
treating blood platelet disorders is that while much is 
known about the disorders 
on a chemical level, little is 
known about them physically. How they travel through 
blood is a ?uid dynamics 
problem, and Viswanathan 
hopes that his 3-D models can 
help solve it.
One of the most prominent 
features of his model is its 
ability to calculate the coef?cient of drag on a platelet. 
Drag is the resistive force of 
?uid  in this case blood 
on a body as it moves; if two 
platelets have different drag 
coef?cients, it means they 
have two different shapes. 
Blood platelets from two people could be different because 
of the presence of disease or 
even just from genetic variations.
I can see a future of medicine which can become personalized medicine and that 
could really save lives, because no two people are the 
same, and medicine should 
evolve to meet that, Viswanathan said. With simulations, that is much more doable than it is right now, and 
I believe that with my work, 
hematological problems dealing with blood issues can be 
solved in that way.
DESIREE XU
Junior Staffwriter
The GPS, or Global Positioning System, is an ef?cient 
tool that one may utilize for 
myriad causes. It is an ubiquitous object that is able to 
identify a current location 
and destination, give directions, and calculate the time 
and distance of a journey. 
How does such a small object 
complete such complex tasks?
Broadly, the GPS function is supported by clocks, 
signals, and mathematical 
concepts. The GPS system involves the receiver as well as 
27 Earth-orbiting satellites, 
three of which are backups 
in case one fails. According 
to howstuffworks.com, the 
satellites rotate around the 
Earth twice a day so that different sets of at least four satellites are visible through a 
telescope at all times and in 
all places. The GPS receiver 
calculates a speci?c point on 
Earth by analyzing radio signals from GPS satellites.
Through 3-D trilateration, 
a mathematical principle that 
involves overlapping areas, 
the GPS can identify its current location by relying on its 
distance from a relative point 
on Earth and from at least 
three satellites. Because a satellite cannot determine the 
exact direction it receives the 
signal from a GPS, a sphere of 
possible locations is created, 
with the radius being the distance between the GPS and 
the satellite. So if a GPS connects with three or four satellites, four spheres of possible 
locations are generated. The 
intersection of these spheres 
on Earth is the location of the 
GPS.
But how does the GPS calculate the distance from the 
receiver to the satellite? The 
satellite contains an atomic 
clock that can be synchronized 
to the nanosecond, while the 
receiver contains a household 
clock that constantly resets. 
Because the household clock 
in the receiver initially makes 
proportionally incorrect time 
measurements using its own 
clock, the receiver resets and 
syncs with the satellite's correct time. Syncing to a correct 
time causes all received signals to align at a single point 
in space, which causes the 
other three satellites to have 
the same time.
After syncing, the satellite 
transmits a pseudo-random 
code, or a digital pattern, and 
the receiver begins running 
the same pattern. As the satellites signal reaches the 
receiver, transmission lags 
behind the receivers pattern 
run. The receiver determines 
its distance from the satellite 
by multiplying the lag by the 
speed of light.
To use the distance information, the GPS receiver 
refers to an internal almanac 
that records every satellite position at any given time. Any 
slight changes in the satellite 
orbit will be corrected and 
sent to the receivers by the 
Department of Defense.
Despite the intricate processes that appear to guarantee accuracy, satellites sometimes transmit unclear signals 
and faulty almanac information. In those cases, a Differential GPS (DGPS)  which 
is separate from the ones that 
everyday people use  identi?es inaccuracies by calculating its location via satellite 
signals at its stationary receiver station, and then compares 
it to a known location.
The DGPS provides correct 
signal information by broadcasting a radio signal from its 
station to all DGPS-equipped 
receivers in the area. As a result, those roving GPS receivers will receive signals that inform them of any differences 
in calculation from the DGPS 
station and correct any faulty 
information. From there, 
those DGPSs communicate 
correct signal information to 
GPSs that civilians use.
It then sends a radio signal to all DGPS-equipped 
receivers, informing them of 
correct signal information. 
In general, the GPS picks up 
transmissions from at least 
four satellites and combines 
them with information in the 
electronic almanac to ?gure 
out the receivers position on 
Earth. When the position is 
calculated, the GPS can tell 
users the longitude, latitude, 
and altitude of their current 
positions and future destinations. 
So when you pull out your 
GPS  help you get to your relatives house for Thanksgiving, 
you can thank complex mathematical principals for getting 
you where you need to be.
RAGHUNANDAN AVULA
Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellons multidisciplinary approach allows 
students from different ?elds 
of study to come together and 
work on projects. This past 
year, four students from the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology and the Mellon College of 
Science joined forces to participate in the International 
Genetically Engineered Machine (iGEM) Competition. 
The group enjoyed success at 
the regional level held in Pittsburgh and was selected as one 
of the four teams out of 43 to 
advance to the competitions 
international jamboree this 
past weekend in Cambridge, 
Mass.
The team, which came together last October, consists 
of sophomore electrical and 
computer engineering and 
biomedical engineering double major Peter Wei; senior 
electrical and computer engineering and biomedical engineering double major Jesse 
Salazar; sophomore biological 
sciences major Eric Pederson; 
and junior chemical engineering and biomedical engineering double major Yang Choo.
Their instructors were 
Cheemeng Tan, a post-doctoral fellow with the Ray and 
Stephanie Lane Center for 
Computational Biology, and 
Natasa Miskov-Zivanov, an adjunct faculty member with the 
department of electrical and 
computer engineering.
The iGEM competition motivates students from around 
the world to develop projects 
in synthetic biology. Pederson 
explained it as projects that 
take parts from different organisms and mixing them to 
get what you want qualify."
After spending a month 
exploring different project 
ideas for the competition, the 
team settled on a project that 
expanded on work researchers at Carnegie Mellon had 
already brie?y explored. After 
securing lab time in March, 
the team ?nally got to work. 
Their research aimed to quantitatively measure the a cells 
amount of a protein that was 
discovered at Carnegie Mellon.
Pederson explained the science behind what their project 
aimed to accomplish: Promoters are regions in our DNA 
that have regulatory functions 
that can impact what goes on 
inside our cells. DNA codes 
for tens of thousands of proteins to be made by cells, but 
only a select number of these 
proteins will be made by the 
cells at any one time. The 
controlling factors are these 
promoter regions which act 
as on and off switches that tell 
the cell when to make or stop 
making a protein depending 
on if it is needed or not.
In modern biology, researchers incorporate and 
manipulate promoters in 
cells to increase or decrease 
the concentration of speci?c 
proteins to force a certain 
change within the cell. Pederson compared promoters to 
the engine of a car in how a 
mechanic wouldnt want to 
put a Hummer engine inside 
a Prius because it would destroy the chassis. Similarly, a 
scientist wouldnt want to use 
the wrong promoter to force a 
speci?c change in the cell because it might cause the wrong 
proteins to be made and cause 
the cell to die.
Once they had decided on a 
project, Tan and Pederson collected data through ?uorescence microscopy, where certain dyes bind to proteins and 
glow. This allows researchers 
to use microscopes to measure 
the amount of dye present 
and subsequently determine 
how much protein is present 
in the cell. Wei explained that 
he used the data to develop 
a quantitative measure using time course curves that 
pinpoint when all the dye has 
binded to the proteins in the 
cell.
Currently, researchers can 
perform experiments such as 
Western Blotting and use protein puri?cation techniques 
to collect the proteins in the 
cell and measure their concentration. However, these 
techniques require breaking 
open the cells to collect the 
proteins. The quantitative 
measures that the Carnegie 
Mellon iGEM team developed 
to measure utilized promoters 
and dyes didnt require killing 
the cells; Pederson believes it 
can save scientists a lot of extra work, time, and money.
The multidisciplinary project allowed team members 
from a variety of backgrounds 
to get involved and contribute 
to its success. Wei said that 
before joining the project he 
had a small interest in biology, 
which motivated him to get 
involved. He felt that joining a 
project like this was the most 
effective method to getting 
into a ?eld you know nothing 
about.
Both Pederson and Salazar 
felt that the competition was 
just a prologue and they felt 
very proud of how much they 
had already accomplished.
CMU students compete in synthetic biology competition
20 under 20 scholars bring exciting research to campusGPS systems rely on satellites to get you to your destination
Adelaide Cole/Art Editor and Michael Setzer/Acting SciTech Editor
A GPS will utilize three or four different satellites to ?gure out its location. When the GPS determines a 
distance from a particular satellite, a sphere of possible locations is created. The GPS ?nal location is 
determined by the point where the spheres generated from each satellite overlap.
Jennifer Golda/Junior Photographer
Obawole Idowu, a 20 under 20 Thiel Fellowship ?nalist, wants to give people who live in areas without 
electricity access to smartphones.
HOW THINGS WORK

---------------------------------------------------

November 5, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/scitech  A5
BROOKE KUEI
Junior Staffwriter
When someone mentions 
robots, popular representations such as R2-D2, Wall-E, 
or the Terminator may come 
to mind. But what if scientists could make robots so tiny 
they could navigate inside 
the human body? Metin Sitti, 
Carnegie Mellon professor in 
mechanical engineering and 
head of the Nanorobotics Lab, 
and Sehyuk Yim, a Ph.D. student in mechanical engineering, recently received funding 
for their research on medical 
capsule robots. 
Pill cameras that take pictures of the gastrointestinal 
tract after being swallowed 
have already been around 
for 11 years. These miniature 
cameras are FDA-approved 
and widely used in hospitals 
 but they do not have any 
functions beyond imaging.
Imaging is good, Sitti 
said, but its a passive tablet you swallow that moves 
through your body naturally. 
If you miss something, you 
cannot go back. If you want to 
stay at one place longer, you 
cant. If you want to do drug 
delivery or a biopsy, there is 
no way to do that because the 
capsule is not controlled. 
Sitti and Yim wanted to 
engineer an active robotic capsule that could be controlled 
while inside the gastrointestinal tract. Some scientists utilize wired endoscopes, which 
are tubes with an attached 
light source, to illuminate an 
organ. While endoscopes can 
perform camera imaging, inject drugs, take tissue samples, 
and have heat probes, they are 
also highly invasive.
We want to combine the 
advantages of wired endoscopes with all its functions 
and try to put that into the pill 
camera so we can have an active pill that can do all of these 
functions in a minimally invasive manner, Sitti said. 
A popular idea in medical 
robots has been tiny rigid robots that can move inside the 
body using legs. To overcome 
the safety hazard of rigid robots, Yim decided to explore 
the idea of soft capsule robots 
made of a squishy material 
called elastomer. In addition 
to being safe inside the body, 
the shape of a soft robot can be 
easily changed. Combining 
soft robotics with nanorobotics is a novelty, Sitti said.
Sitti and Yim designed a robot with two heads that has an 
internal magnet at each end. 
Using an external magnet at 
a certain distance away from 
the robot, the capsule can be 
remotely controlled. By using 
magnetic ?elds to contract and 
expand the soft capsule after it 
has been swallowed, the tiny 
robot can roll and twist inside 
a patients stomach. 
The researchers hope to 
improve this concept by increasing the friction on the 
capsules surface  perhaps 
with adhesive ?bers inspired 
by the ?bers on geckos feet  
so that it can move more easily 
on the mucus-covered stomach lining.
You can put a drug chamber in the middle, and by 
changing the formation of the 
capsule, you can inject a drug, 
Sitti said. Another function of 
the capsule is to inject biopsy 
microgrippers that come out 
and grab tissue by folding and 
contracting when exposed to 
body temperature. After the 
capsule leaves the body naturally, this tissue sample can be 
taken out and examined.
The building process for 
these tiny capsule robots takes 
a high level of precision. I use 
a molding process, Yim said. 
These capsule robots are 
made of polymer material, so 
we have to use a 3-D printer, 
which is a rapid prototyping 
machine that works by layering of material. Using this, we 
make a mold that I can then 
pour a polymer into. After 
seven or eight hours, the elastomer is cured and I detach it 
from the mold and assemble 
the parts.
By using this molding process, Yim is able to make many 
copies of the capsule robot in 
an inexpensive manner.
We havent yet built a full 
prototype that we can try clinically on animals, Sitti said. 
Weve just built prototypes 
for different functions. With 
their new grant, Sitti and Yim 
hope to have this full prototype 
done within the next year. After it is approved by the FDA, 
which is a long process that 
will take approximately 10 
years, Sitti and Yim can see 
their capsule robot being used 
for real-life applications. 
In the meantime, their inprogess soft capsule robot can 
be applied as a health monitoring system that works by giving the swallowed capsule the 
capability to detect what foods 
a person eats. This can bene?t 
patients that have problems 
with their digestive tract.
Scientists receive funding for medical robotics research
Tree of Life created for living bird species
Scientists have created 
a phylogenetic tree  a 
branching map of evolutionary relations between species 
 for all 9,993 of the worlds 
living bird species. 
This is the ?rst dated tree 
of life for a class of species 
this size to be put on a global 
map, said Walter Jetz, an 
evolutionary biologist at Yale 
University who participated 
in the study. However, some 
scientists are critical of the 
tree, claiming that its sheer 
magnitude allows for the extrapolation of evolutionary 
trends that dont exist. 
The tree was constructed 
based on the genetic information of around 6,600 species  the other 3,300 were 
grouped based on constraints 
such as genus membership.
Source: Nature
Researchers ?nd post-adolescent cyberbullying
A recent study by United 
Kingdom researchers at the 
University of Shef?eld and 
Nottingham University reveals that cyberbullying still 
goes on long after adolescence: It is prominent in the 
workplace as well. Out of a 
survey conducted among 320 
United Kingdom university 
employees, around eight out 
of 10 claimed to have been a 
victim of cyberbullying at least 
once in the past six months.
Another 1420 percent 
claimed to be victims of cyberbullying on a weekly basis 
 a rate similar to that reported by those bullied in person. The researchers plan to 
release suggestions for ways 
employers can foster cyberbullying-free environments in 
the workplace.
Source: Science Daily
MIT researchers reveal robotic arm prototype
Fans of the Spiderman supervillain Doctor Octopus are 
sure to appreciate the work of 
Federico Parietti and Harry 
Asada. The two Massachusetts Institute of Technology 
researchers are working on 
a prototype pair of wearable 
robotic arms that will use advanced algorithms to detect 
and facilitate the intent of its 
user. The research was funded by Boeing, and the scientists believe the arms could be 
very helpful to factory workers or those performing complex do-it-yourself tasks.
Its bold and out of keeping with anything Ive ever 
seen to attach two arms to a 
human, said Dave Barrett, 
a roboticist and mechanical 
engineer at Olin College in 
Needham, Mass. 
Source: New Scientist
Researchers observe light from earliest stars
Astronomers at the Stanford Linear Accelerator Center in California are claiming 
they have spotted light from 
the very ?rst stars in the universe. These stars speci?c 
glow, known as extragalactic background light (EBL), 
comes from stars that existed 
when the universe was as 
young as 600 million years 
old  very early in its existence, compared to the universes present age of 13.7 billion years. The scientists did 
not measure the EBL directly, 
but instead detected it by analyzing measurements made 
by NASAs Fermi Gamma-Ray 
Space Telescope.
Stars from this period in 
the universes history were 
more massive and burned 
brighter than todays stars.
Source: Space.com
Elephant in South Korea speaks basic phrases
Koshik, an elephant living 
at the Everland Zoo in South 
Korea, is able to emulate elementary Korean speech. 
By sticking his trunk into his 
mouth, Koshik is able to utter the ?ve Korean words for 
hello, sit down, no, lie 
down, and good. Native 
speakers of the language are 
able to understand these utterances, so the elephant has 
become a popular tourist attraction. It is unlikely, however, that Koshik understands 
the words he says.
Although its unclear why 
Koshik makes the sounds, 
cognitive biologist Angela 
Stoeger believes ...that Koshik started to adapt his 
vocalizations to his human 
companions to strengthen his 
social af?liation with them.
Source: Reuters 
Android running on three out of four smartphones
The industry research ?rm 
International Data Corporation (IDC) released a report 
claiming that three out of every four smartphones runs a 
version of Googles Android 
operating system. This is an 
increase from this time last 
year, when the statistic was 
at 57.5 percent.
Google has a thriving, 
multifaceted product portfolio. Many of its competitors, 
with weaker tie-ins to the 
mobile OS, do not, according to the IDC report. 
While Google widened 
the gap between rival Apple, 
most of the gains were made 
at the loss of sales by Blackberry and Symbian. 
Source: ZDNet, Reuters
Compiled by
BENJAMIN MADUEME
SCITECH BRIEFS
Jonathan Lueng/Junior Photographer
Mechanical engineering professor Metin Sitti and Ph.D. student Sehyuk Yim recently received funding for their research in medical capsule robots. The robots will be able to roll and twist inside a patients stomach once 
ingested. The researchers hope that this method will have the same advantages as wired endoscopes, but be much less invasive. 
We want to 
combine the 
advantages 
of wired 
endoscopes 
with all its 
functions and 
try to put that 
into the pill 
camera... 
Metin Sitti
MechE professor

---------------------------------------------------

Office: University Center 314
Phone: (412) 268-2111
Fax: (412) 268-1596
Web: www.thetartan.org
E-mail: contact@thetartan.org
Mail:
The Tartan
Box 119, UC Suite 103 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Editorial Staff
 2012 The Tartan, all rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN: 0890-3107
The Tartan is a student newspaper at Carnegie Mellon University, funded in part by the student 
activities fee. It is a weekly publication by students during the fall and spring semesters, printed 
by Trib Total Media. The Tartan is not an official publication of Carnegie Mellon University. The 
first issue is free; subsequent issues cost $0.50 at the discretion of The Tartan. Subscriptions are 
available on a per semester basis.
The Editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The 
Tartan Editorial Board. Columns, Editorial Cartoons, and Reviews are the opinions of their 
individual creators. The Tartan Editorial Staff reserves the right to withhold from publication 
any copy it deems unfit.
Letters to the Editor are the opinions of their authors. Letters from within the University community take precedence. Letters intended for publication must be signed and include the authors 
address and telephone number for verification; letters must not exceed 350 words. Authors names 
may be withheld from publication upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject 
any letter. Letters must be submitted by 5 p.m. on the Wednesday before publication by mail or to 
forum@thetartan.org.
StaffEditorial Board
FROM THE EDITORIAL BOARD
SENIOR STAFF 
Stephanie Blotner, Stacey Chin, Greg 
Hanneman, Alan Vangpat
LAYOUT
Chloe Chia, Edward Wojciechowski 
COPY
Swathi Anand, Manali Banerjee, Sawsan 
Boutemine, Kairavi Chahal, Connie Chan, 
Nivedita Chopra, Braden Kelner, Sage Po, 
Taylor Rawley, Stephanie Stern, Julia Yang
ADVERTISING
Grace Chung, Seo Young Hwang
* Denotes executive committee member
A6  thetartan.org/forum The Tartan  November 5, 2012
CHRISTA HESTER *
Publisher
EMILY DOBLER *
Editor-in-Chief
JOSH SMITH 
Forum Editor 
EVAN KAHN
Copy Manager
JACKSON LANE
Senior Staffwriter
ANNA WALSH *
Personnel Manager
BRENT HEARD
Asst. News Editor
JENNIFER COLOMA *
Operations Manager
MADELYN GLYMOUR
News Editor
MICHAEL SETZER
Acting SciTech Editor
ALEX TAPAK
Sports Co-Editor
ADAM GRUBER
Sports Co-Editor
RACHEL COHEN
Pillbox Editor
NICOLE HAMILTON
Comics Editor
JONATHAN CARREON
Photo Editor
ADELAIDE COLE
Art Editor
ALEX CRICHTON
Systems Manager
KATHY CHEN
Advertising Manager
KENNETH WONG
Business Manager
JUSTIN MCGOWN
Online Editor
NOL UM
Asst. News Editor
ABBY SMITH
Asst. Sports Editor
LAURA SCHERB
Asst. Pillbox Editor
KELLY HARRINGTON
Asst. Systems Manager
BONITA LEUNG
Asst. Copy Manager
HANNAH DELLABELLA
Asst. Copy Manager
CHLOE THOMPSON
Asst. Personnel Manager
ALLISON COSBY *
Staffwriter
Students, faculty, and staff found 
themselves without consistent wireless internet access across campus on 
Monday and Tuesday. Although both 
of the campus wireless networks  
CMU and CMU-SECURE  were 
left on and broadcasted as available, 
neither host would assign IP addresses to computers trying to reach 
the internet. 
On a campus as technologically 
focused as Carnegie Mellon, two 
days without Wi-Fi is a signi?cant inconvenience. 
Students with laptops or wireless devices need Wi-Fi on campus 
to access Blackboard and submit assignments. Many professors count 
on wireless internet for in-class demonstrations and lecture notes. And 
almost everyone on campus uses 
wireless internet to check emails and 
follow events while on the go. 
We understand that the internet 
connection may have been knocked 
out by the inclement weather Pittsburgh received from Hurricane 
Sandy, and perhaps the disruption to 
campus Wi-Fi was unavoidable. 
However, the schools silence on 
this issue has been disappointing. 
There was no acknowledgement of 
the internet issues during the internet blackout and no noti?cation or 
apology afterwards. 
Nobody knew what was happening. Students did not know to buy 
ethernet cables, professors did not 
know to avoid wasting class time trying to connect to the internet.
Little-to-no noti?cation has been 
sent out to students regarding the issues with connecting to the internet 
on campus. 
Computing Services sent out an 
email on Sunday offering to help 
students connect their devices to the 
CMU-SECURE network, but the 
noti?cation never mentioned the 
connectivity issues from early last 
week.
While being without Wi-Fi for two 
days is not an emergency, the administration should not get into the practice of staying silent on campus-wide 
inconveniences. 
The collective impact across all 
of the university community warranted some noti?cation about the 
knocked-out Wi-Fi.
Disney may work its magic with Star Wars franchise
Campus Wi-Fi problems should have been addressed
Trumps mid-disaster stunt for attention is despicable
Amid the wreckage wrought by 
Hurricane Sandy, Donald Trump 
still managed to make headlines. In 
a video posted on YouTube from the 
top ?oor of a Trump Tower on Oct. 
24, he offered $5 million to a charity of Obamas choice in exchange 
for the public release of the Presidents college transcripts and passport applications and records by last     
Wednesday.
Trump even had the gall to extend 
his offer to noon on Thursday when 
the hurricane hit, and when Obama 
didnt respond by this deadline, 
Trump decided that, Obviously he 
wasnt born of this country, or, if he 
was, he said he wasnt in order to 
receive ?nancial aid and in order to 
have a clear and very easy path into a 
college or university.
One could step back from the ridiculousness of the previous statement for a moment and consider 
that, not only has Trump never met 
Obama, but the President has no 
more obligation to respond Trumps 
accusations than those made by any 
other American citizen. 
Obama is merely exercising his 
right as an American to ignore things 
he doesnt care about. And surely 
Obama recognizes Trumps vehemence on this issue as at least 50 percent publicity stunt  as does Dallas 
Mavericks owner Mark Cuban, who 
on Friday offered Trump $1 million 
to shave his head.
The adage any publicity is good 
publicity is no longer true for 
Trumps case, no matter how devoutly he lives by it. Yes, he has radical opinions on Obama, like that he 
might be an expatriate Muslim from 
Kenya. This fact doesnt give him justi?cation to bribe the President, nor 
does his vampiric thirst to stay relevant in Americas culture.
More offensive than Trumps usual publicity stunts, however, is that 
he was dangling $5 million in front 
of the President during a huge natural disaster that hit his own New York 
City. 
When Trump made his Twitter 
post moving his extortion deadline 
to Thursday, apartments and subway 
systems were ?ooding over, and people were dying throughout New York 
and New Jersey.
If Trump had that much money 
to spare on a charity of Obamas 
choice, then perhaps the money 
would be better spent saving the 
lives and homes of those affected by 
the hurricane.
Josh Smith/Forum Editor
Disney of?cials announced last 
Tuesday that the company was buying Lucas?lm for $4.05 billion and 
would release Star Wars Episode VII 
in 2015. 
Created by ?lmmaker George 
Lucas, Lucas?lm produced the Star 
Wars and Indiana Jones ?lms, in addition to running subsidiary businesses in audio and special effects. 
The acquisition of Lucas?lm presents Disney with a signi?cant opportunity. The desire to expand the Star 
Wars movie universe with another 
trilogy of ?lms may prove extremely 
pro?table and successful, but may 
also back?re. However, if these ?lms 
prove to be critical successes, they offer the potential to reinvigorate the 
Star Wars brand and restore faith in 
the franchise after three disappointing prequels. 
Star Wars already suffered, not ?-
nancially, but creatively, from these 
three prequels overseen by Lucas. 
While Lucas is only slated to contribute to the new series as a creative 
consultant, any more mishandling of 
the franchise may leave a permanent 
mark on Star Wars. 
Despite the large amount of negativity and uncertainty surrounding 
this announcement, it is also important to acknowledge that Disney has 
proved to be a successful manager of 
other well-known brands. The most 
recent example is Marvel, which 
released the Joss Whedon-directed 
The Avengers to great critical and ?-
nancial success. However, more involvement on Disneys part does not 
always result in success, as Pixars 
latest offerings Cars 2 and Brave received  less favorable receptions than 
any of Pixars previous works. 
But Disney knows how to market a movie. Cars 2, despite being 
the worst-reviewed Pixar ?lm, still 
turned a massive pro?t. For a franchise that has had a shaky recent 
history, this marketing skill could be 
valuable. But whether it will succeed 
in producing high quality Star Wars 
?lms, however, remains to be seen.
Disney is perfectly capable of creating quality ?lms, and will reap the 
inevitable ?nancial pro?ts that will 
come from the release of a new Star 
Wars ?lm. 
Unfortunately, it remains unclear 
as to whether the company will try 
to do this or not. Let us hope that 
decent screenwriters and directors 
sign on for these movies and help 
to restore the magic of this classic 
franchise.
Americans must practice vigilance through voting 
KYLE HENSON
If I were to ever get a tattoo, itd 
say, Eternal vigilance is the price of 
liberty. Nothing better sums up, in 
my mind, how crucial it is to vote in 
not only this election, but in every 
election.
Those seven words are engraved 
upon the statue of a grim Roman 
warrior sitting outside the National 
Archives in Washington, D.C. His 
left hand clutches a sword, his right 
hand holds a helmet, and a lions pelt 
drapes over his arm  all to convey 
that power must be checked at every turn by a diligent and watchful 
public.
I contend that, at every turn, 
we have failed to check the powers 
weve granted government. Only 
about two-thirds of our voting-age 
population shows up to vote every 
four years, and even fewer people 
vote in the congressional elections 
held every two years, according to 
a George Mason University study  
and it shows.
When our country was founded, 
every citizen had the right to sign 
any private contract and have it upheld by a court. Everyone had the 
right to keep all income they fairly 
earned. Everyone had the right to 
enjoy recreational drugs. Every 
marriage made at the state level was 
recognized at the federal level, and 
every business could hire a worker 
without incurring the egregious 
compliance costs associated with 
federal regulation.
None of that is now true about 
America. While we have come a long 
way in some areas, namely in racial 
and gender equality, we have sat idly 
by while other basic freedoms were 
stripped from us by well-intentioned 
men who thought that they knew 
us better than we knew ourselves. 
Through the process of voter apathy, 
our government has stopped representing us.
Corruption has seeped through 
the cracks made by our neglect and 
interests of outside parties now hold 
more sway in our government than 
the people do. 
We have no one to blame for this 
except ourselves, but rather than 
letting this deter us, we should realize that the need to vote has never 
been more urgent that it is now, and 
a lack of education or caring is no 
excuse for watching your freedoms 
erode.
As founding father Thomas Jefferson said, I know of no safe repository of the ultimate power of 
society but the people. And if we 
think them not enlightened enough, 
the remedy is not to take power 
from them, but to inform them by 
education. Information has never 
been more readily available than it 
is now. American citizens owe it to 
those that created the great experiment that is the U.S., those who died 
for the country, and to themselves to 
do everything in their power to protect the ideals that have made this 
nation so prosperous.
I believe in American exceptionalism. We are the greatest country 
in the world. We are colonist John 
Winthrops city upon a hill. We 
are a country founded upon the idea 
that no man, mob, or government 
can restrict your volition. Your free 
will and your ability to exercise it are 
the only sacred things on this Earth 
and supersede any power that a government may ever attempt to exert 
upon you. Should any force attempt 
to take from you that which  by 
your own perseverance, daring, and 
skill  you have wrought into existence, or should anything prevent 
you from realizing every last ?eeting 
zephyr of thought that may compel 
your actions, the ?rm hand of justice 
would strike down the forces that 
oppose you and leave you free to 
pursue happiness.
Those before us have been beaten, jailed, tortured, and killed to 
protect that idea, and it is because 
of them that the great American experiment continues to be the beacon 
of the free world. 
Eternal vigilance truly is the price 
of liberty, and it is our turn to sit beside that Roman warrior outside of 
the National Archives and pick up 
the mantle of the always watchful 
soldier, guarding the sanctity and 
validity of our republic.
Kyle Henson (kahenson@) is a staffwriter for The Tartan.
Courtesy of Filodendron via Wikimedia Commons
James Earl Frasers sculpture Guardianship located outside of the National Archives 
in Washington, D.C.

---------------------------------------------------

A PERSONS OPINION
Election Day is this Tuesday, and the citizens of the U.S. elect their next President. So we asked,
Why do you think voting is important?
Compiled by Jonathan Carreon and Jennifer Coloma
November 5, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/forum  A7
CARL GLAZER
This Election Day, millions of 
people across the nation will go to 
the polls and cast their ballots for the 
President of the U.S. Unfortunately 
for many of these voters, their votes 
will not actually have an impact on 
the election. Due to our current Electoral College system, the political fate 
of the country rests in the hands of 
the voters in a few undecided states. 
This massive disconnect between the 
popular vote and the election of our 
nations leader needs to be corrected 
if we are to continue to claim that 
each vote matters.
The Electoral College was initially 
established in the Constitution as a 
compromise between the populace 
directly electing the president and 
Congress independently voting for 
the President and Vice President. 
Today, each state selects electors 
equal to its representation in Congress (one for each Representative 
and Senator). Those electors vote 
for the President and Vice President 
based on a winner-take-all vote by 
the states population.
The solution that immediately 
comes to mind is to abolish the electorate system, similar to what the 
17th Amendment did for electing 
Senators. However, this fundamentally rede?nes our governmental system and poses many problems. The 
?rst issue of this proposal would be 
recounts. When the popular vote is 
won by 0.5 percent or less, each state 
recounts ballots by hand. While this 
is already time consuming in large 
states  like Florida during the 2000 
election  the possibility of handrecounting the over 120 million votes 
cast for a presidential election is an 
unfathomable task that would require much time and manpower.
Having only a popular vote would 
also mean a candidate could receive 
signi?cantly less than a majority of 
the vote due to third parties drawing away votes. A two-round system 
 where a second round of voting 
would occur for the two most popular candidates of a larger pool of 
initial candidates  would partially 
prevent this issue. However, it would 
still allow a candidate whom less 
than 50 percent of America initially 
wanted as their top choice to win.
A more reasonable solution would 
be to change the current format of 
the Electoral College to a representative sample of the states political 
preferences. Maine and Nebraska 
both currently split their electors on 
a proportional basis and serve as implementation examples. They both 
treat each Congressional Representative district as having one elector, 
with that elector voting for whoever 
gains a majority in that district. Their 
two remaining senator-based electors are then given to whoever wins 
the full state popular vote.
This proposal would dramatically 
change the way campaigns are currently run. For example, voters in 
more Democratic-leaning districts in 
highly Republican states would not 
have their votes drowned out by the 
rest of the state. This change would 
move the focus of campaigns from 
toss-up states to toss-up districts, and 
would prevent candidates from completely ignoring the vast majority of 
states in the run up to the election. 
This setup would also open the door 
for third parties to begin gaining 
footholds by earning one or two electors in districts across the country.
The current election system disenfranchises many voters in solid leftleaning or right-swaying states. The 
move to a proportional Electoral College would bring us one step closer to 
the ultimate ideal of one citizen, one 
vote without many of the logistical 
nightmares that would accompany it.
Carl Glazer (cglazer@) is a staffwriter 
for The Tartan.
Obamas promises convey character
SATVIKA NETI
Junior Staffwriter
Fundamentally, this election 
is about two candidates with opposing views of how this country 
should be run. But it is as much 
about opposing characters as it is 
about opposing policies.
President Barack Obama has 
become the ?rst sitting President 
to endorse marriage equality. His 
backing has put the issue on the 
Democratic partys platform, and 
thats important. This isnt because 
its about gay rights, but because 
its about equal rights.
People say that it doesnt really 
matter what promises politicians 
make to us during the campaign 
season because thats all they are: 
vague promises. But ful?lling ones 
promises isnt whats important 
during a campaign. The question 
is not of policies, but of character.
Obamas promise for gay rights 
tells me that he believes in equality and that hes willing to stand 
up for what he believes in, even 
though its not the convenient option. Its important because it says 
that Obama is willing to see all 
people as humans who deserve the 
same rights. It makes me feel as if 
he would ?ght for me, not because 
he wants my vote, but because he 
believes it is the right thing to do.
Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney, on the other 
hand, would single out a group 
of people and make them seem 
lesser and not as worthy as the 
rest of society through measures 
like his Federal Marriage Amendment. I ?nd something fundamentally wrong with doing that to any 
group of people for any reason.
The economy  the primary 
reason many people cite as to why 
theyre voting for Romney  is actually why Im screaming, Four 
more years. According to The 
Guardian, as of Friday, there have 
been 25 consecutive months of job 
growth under Obamas term and 
the unemployment rate has stayed 
under 8 percent for the past couple 
of months. Obama has a de?nite 
plan to reduce the de?cit by reducing tax breaks for the rich, investing in the middle class by funding 
education and agriculture, and 
ending foreign wars.
The important thing about this 
is that he has a plan. Romney has 
failed, even while being prodded 
by various people, to tell us his 
plan. He says hell close loopholes 
and create jobs  while neglecting to specify how or which ones 
 and somehow ?nd $5 billion for 
tax cuts and unnecessary defense 
spending at the same time.
I want someone who knows 
what they want for the country 
and has a proven track record of 
going after what they want, rather 
than someone who refuses to tell 
us or simply doesnt know. Obama 
believes in this country. Hes proven for four years that he has what 
it takes to run it. Lets give him another four.
Electoral College and popular vote both have issues
When you wish upon a galaxy far, far away...
PA jumped the gun on Hurricane Sandy prep
KAVITA MEHTA
Junior Staffwriter
Hurricane Sandy spread high 
winds, heavy rains, and electrical 
outages from the Carolinas all the 
way up to Maine last week. However, 
some states felt the impact of this 
Category 1 hurricane more than others. 
Considering all of the damage 
that happened in the tri-state area  
New York, New Jersey, and Connecticut  Pittsburgh, and Pennsylvania 
as a whole, overreacted to the storm.
Pennsylvanias efforts to prepare 
for Sandy seemed extreme when 
compared to the storms actual effects here. All Pittsburgh public 
schools cancelled last Tuesdays 
classes in an announcement Monday 
night; since there was only mild rain 
and wind on Tuesday, this decision 
was made too quickly and too early 
by city of?cials. They could have at 
least waited to make that decision 
on Tuesday morning, the day of the 
hurricane, when they saw the actual 
storm and its minimal effects.
Pittsburgh only received two-anda-half inches of rain because of the 
hurricane, which  while above the 
average rainfall for October in the 
state  was still minor when compared to New Yorks and New Jerseys ?ooding. The highest tide of 13 
feet that rose in the New York Harbor 
poured into the city, all seven tunnels 
under the East River were ?ooded, 
high tides put much of New Jerseys 
Seaside Heights boardwalk and 85 
percent of Atlantic City underwater, 
and Ground Zero was ?ooded with 
20 feet of water.
Instead of creating 58 stationary evacuation centers throughout 
the state, which  according to the 
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette  were not 
guaranteed to be used, Pennsylvania 
could have better allotted its time 
and resources by making more mobile Red Cross emergency vehicles,  
increasing its current 100.
As weather detection is an imprecise science, meteorologists in 
Pennsylvania were unsure of where 
to build evacuation centers. None of 
those centers could have been used if 
they were constructed in the wrong 
locations. In fact, very few evacuation centers were even used in Pennsylvania because of inconvenient 
locations and the minimal impact 
of the storm. However, more mobile 
emergency vehicles would have been 
useful because they can help any victim in any location.
The destruction created by 
Hurricane Sandy in Pennsylvania 
shouldnt be overlooked or underestimated. But the scope of the states 
reaction to the storm, as well as the 
inef?cient implementation of evacuation centers, should be evaluated 
for how Pennsylvania and Pittsburgh 
responds to future natural disasters.
LUKE MASA
Junior Staffwriter
I found myself in a state of pure 
shock last Tuesday. During my daily 
afternoon check of all of my favorite 
social media and nerdy news websites, I discovered a story I would 
have thought was a joke had it not 
appeared so consistently: Disney 
bought Lucas?lm. Even more shockingly, Star Wars Episode VII has a tentative release date of summer 2015. 
As a lifelong Star Wars geek  one 
who is still coming to terms with the 
fact that Disney just bought Marvel 
 I sensed a great disturbance in the 
force. It was as if millions of fanboys 
cried out in terror and were suddenly 
silenced... by a mouse.
After reading more, I eventually 
came to terms with the $4 billion 
buyout. Former owner of Lucas?lm, 
George Lucas, has apparently decided that his circle is now complete and 
is allowing the students to become 
the masters. In other words, hes retiring  but not without the second 
highest share in Disneys stock after 
the estate of Steve Jobs, as well as 
the job of creative consultant on the 
proposed new ?lms. But what exactly 
does this mean for adoring fans?
On one hand, there are going to be 
new Star Wars movies. On the other, 
we all remember how lackluster the 
prequels were, to say the least. Its a 
scary thought that the next trilogy 
could feel closer to Attack of Clones 
than Empire Strikes Back. Even if you 
didnt ?nd the prequels to be utterly 
awful, you have to admit they didnt 
carry the charm of original triology. 
Furthermore, for those of us who are 
really into the galaxy far, far away, 
this move seems to render pointless 
all of the many Expanded Universe 
novels, video games, and comics that 
continued the story of Luke, Leia, 
and Han well beyond the end credits 
of Return of the Jedi.
For instance, Star Wars fandom 
has considered the Grand Admiral 
Thrawn trilogy of novels (in which 
what remains of the Empire tries to 
hold on to the galaxy as Luke meets 
his wife, and Han and Leia have kids) 
the defacto Episodes VII, VIII, and 
IX. Yet now theres no reason to believe those stories will be acknowledged, and in fact some reports, such 
as those from NBC, have explicitly 
stated that they de?nitely will not be 
adapted.
Sure, itll be exciting to see some 
new stories, but without a strong 
foundation theres always the potential for another mistake like Jar-Jar 
Binks. Such a turn of events could 
lead to anger, which leads to hate, 
which in turn leads to the Dark Side.
However, I am actually pleasantly 
surprised at how everythings turned 
out for Marvel after Disney acquired 
it. Its hard to say how much Disney 
actually had a hand in that success, 
but the company hasnt screwed anything up yet. So while a few days ago 
I may have felt as though Disney was 
attempting to slowly buy everything 
I loved, I now realize that even if that 
were the case, it could be a lot worse. 
It could be Michael Bay or M. Night 
Shyamalan making 
their marks, as 
Transformers and 
Avatar: The 
Last Airbender 
fans are all too 
aware of.
In case anyone still feels as 
though no good could 
possibly come of this purchase, Lucas has decided 
to set up an education trust 
with a signi?cant portion of the 
money hes earned in this deal. So 
if nothing else, at least some practical good will come out of this.
I, for one, would much rather 
see children getting the education 
they deserve than have my sel?sh 
wish for speci?c stories be met. And 
Ill be the ?rst to admit that come 
2015, Ill likely be waiting in line, in 
costume, at the midnight release of 
Episode VII. Given my namesake, its 
not like I have much of a choice.
Annette Ko/Junior Artist
Emily Ostrin
Chemistry
Senior
We are one of the only countries 
where we are able to [vote].
Gautham Nagaraju
ECE
Senior
[Voting] is the only chance you 
have to dictate the way you want 
your country to go.
Alex Petti
ChemE
Sophomore
It motivates people to get 
informed on issues, and the more 
informed they are, the better their 
vote [is].
Carly Hancherick
CivE
Junior
If everyone had the general 
attitude that their vote didnt 
count, then the majority would 
be swayed in a possibly negative 
way.
Jerry Carlson
MechE
Senior
As a citizen of America it is your 
duty, and it is the easiest way to 
influence the government of the 
country.

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

November 5, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/sports  A9
Swimming and diving hosts Clarion
ALEX TAPAK
Sports Co-Editor
The mens and womens 
swimming and diving teams 
dove into their ?rst home 
meet of the season last weekend. The Tartans hosted the 
Division-II Clarion University Golden Eagles. The mens 
team crushed Clarion University 20297, while the womens team fell 198102.
The men took ?rst in many 
events and swept some events 
entirely. The ?rst-years got 
their ?rst taste of competition 
at home, with many of them 
responsible for ?rst-place ?nishes. First-year Christopher 
Wysocki took ?rst place in 
the 1,000-yard freestyle with 
a time of 9:56.82. In the 200-
yard freestyle, ?rst-year Steven Geier took ?rst place with 
a time of 1:46.62.
The 200-yard medley relay team of sophomore Josh 
Lucheon, sophomore Cole 
Um, junior Terrence Wong, 
and ?rst-year Lucas Bruder 
?nished in 1:37.22. The 200-
yard freestyle relay team of 
Bruder, Wong, ?rst-year Carter Sharer, and junior Edward 
Sears also took ?rst, ?nishing 
in 1:27.34.
The Tartan women, despite 
losing, still had ?rst-place ?nishes from junior Soleil Phan, 
who won the 100-yard butter?y in 58.99, and junior 
Megan Garvey, who won the 
500-yard freestyle in 5:21.06. 
Phan also ?nished second in 
the 200-yard freestyle with 
a time of 1:55.60 and in the 
200-yard individual medley 
in 2:12.62. Meanwhile, Garvey also placed second in the 
200-yard butter?y with a time 
of 2:11.92.
The womens team saw 
strong ?nishes from its ?rstyears. First-year Felicia Wang 
had two second-place ?nishes 
for the Tartans in breaststroke 
events. The ?rst was in the 
100-yard breaststroke with 
a time of 1:08.47, and the 
second was in the 200-yard 
breaststroke with a time of 
2:32.53. First-year Kira Singhaus recorded another Tartan 
second-place ?nish in the 100-
yard backstroke with a time of 
1:00.14.
In the diving pool, ?rstyear Winona Li had the best 
?nish for the Tartans with her 
?fth-place ?nish off the onemeter board.
I think were doing great 
for this point in the season. 
This is the point where training gets really intense, but everyone was pushing through 
during the meet and I feel like 
our team is really coming together, sophomore Nicole 
Crimi said.
The mens and womens 
teams will host Grove City 
College on Saturday.
Jonathan Leung/Staff Photographer
The mens and womens teams put their hands in to cheer as they host their ?rst home meet of the season.
Cross country takes 
third place at UAAs
Womens soccer ties Emory 00 
ABBY SMITH
Assistant Sports Editor
The womens soccer team 
tied with the Emory University Eagles 00, ?nishing the 
season in second place in 
the University Athletic Association Championships play. 
The Tartans overall record is 
1114, making them No. 19 
in the nation, while the No. 8 
Eagles ?nished their season 
1116.
Sophomore mid?elder 
Jordyn Greenburg and junior 
defender Rachel Contopoulos made many goal attempts 
during the ?rst period of Saturdays game, but Emorys 
goalkeeper, senior Kaele 
Leonard, did not give the Tartans a chance to score.
Emorys defensive strength 
was equally matched by a 
strong Carnegie Mellon defense. Junior goalkeeper 
Anna Albi was a critical player 
for the Tartans, making a total 
of nine saves, including six in 
the second period.
Her ?nal save of the game 
in the 105th minute marked 
her sixth shutout of the season.
In the second period, junior forward Alex Veneagas, 
senior mid?elder Katie Davis, 
and ?rst-year Carson Quiros 
also made several goal attempts.
I am so proud of our team 
for playing so well against 
a great Emory team. We 
showed heart and proved we 
can play with the best team in 
the country. We are a special 
team that hopefully will get 
the chance to keep playing in 
the NCAAs, senior mid?elder 
Stephanie Hare said.
The Tartans will now await 
the selection of the ?eld for 
the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) Division-III Womens Soccer Tournament, as the team hopes to 
receive an at-large bid to the 
Championship draw. 
Fans can watch the NCAA 
Championship Selection 
Show online at www.ncaa.
com on Monday at 1:30 p.m.
Jos Lopez/Junior Photographer 
No. 16 senior defender Mitra Ebrahimi steals the ball from Emory offense.
ALEX TAPAK
Sports Co-Editor
The mens and womens 
cross country teams traveled 
to Rochester, N.Y., on Oct. 27 
to compete in the University 
Athletic Association (UAA) 
Championships hosted by the 
University of Rochester.
Both the mens and womens teams brought home 
third-place trophies.
Third place was quite 
the accomplishment for the 
womens cross country team. 
The Tartans had not broken 
into the top three since 1998 
when they took home the 
championship.
Three of the women ?nished within the top 14 of 
the 6k race. The top ?ve race 
times were factored into the 
Tartans overall score of 103 
points.
The ?rst ?nisher was senior Emily Wobb, placing 
seventh overall with a time of 
22:37.3.
Finishing just 4.8 seconds 
behind her in 10th place was 
junior Elise Hall. Sophomore 
Halley Bayer rounded out 
the top, ?nishing with 11th 
place.
First-year Rekha Schnepfs 
time of 23:28.3 was factored 
into the Tartans score as 
well, as she took 35th place 
overall.
The last score for the Tartans came from senior Eva 
Humphrey in 44th place 
with a time of 23:37.3. This 
brought the Tartans grand 
total to 1:55:07.5.
Getting third was unbelievable, Hall said. I de?-
nitely had high hopes, but 
I wasnt really sure what to 
expect. Everything we had 
been working toward came 
together. As far as the rest of 
the season, we of course have 
our sights set on doing just as 
well at regionals to get us to 
nationals.
The mens cross country 
team competed in the 8k, 
also ?nishing third overall. 
The men also had three top14 ?nishers, scoring a total of 
65 points.
It was again up to the top 
?ve ?nishers to decide the 
teams ?nal score.
The ?rst Tartan ?nisher 
was senior Evan Gates with a 
time of 25:16.4, earning him 
fourth place overall and the 
highest Tartan ?nish of UAAs. 
Just after Gates, junior Josh 
Newby took ?fth place overall with a time of 25:20.2.
Junior Ken Murphy was 
the third ?nisher for the Tartans with a time of 25:43.0, 
putting him in 11th place 
overall.
The fourth and ?fth ?nishers for Carnegie Mellon 
?nished within 3.8 seconds 
of each other: Sophomore 
George Degen ?nished 20th 
with a time of 25:51.3 and senior Billy Little?eld ?nished 
23rd overall with a time of 
25:55.1. Together, the Tartans had a grand total time of 
2:08:06.1.
The now No. 20-nationally ranked Tartans will 
travel this Saturday to NCAA 
Regional Championships in 
Carlisle, Pa., hosted by Dickinson College.
I de?nitely 
had high hopes, 
but I wasnt 
really sure what 
to expect. 
Elise Hall
Junior materials 
science and 
engineering major

---------------------------------------------------

GABRIELLE WEST
Junior Staffwriter
The Tartan mens soccer 
team fell just short of taking 
the number one spot in the 
University Athletic Association (UAA) in its game against 
the Emory University Eagles 
on Saturday night.
The ?nal score was 10, 
leaving Carnegie Mellon in 
a four-way tie with Brandeis 
University, Washington University in St. Louis, and Emory University for ?rst place in 
conference play.
The game was hard fought 
and very physical. There was 
a total of 29 fouls called, 15 
of which were from Carnegie 
Mellon.
The ?rst half concluded 
with a score of 00 due to the 
tough defense of both teams.
While there were no 
goals in the ?rst half of the 
game, the Eagles attempted 
six shots, and the Tartans attempted three.
Twentyseven minutes 
into the second half, the Eagles attempted their seventh 
shot of the half and connected 
with the net.
With the remaining 18 
minutes, the Tartans took 
two unsuccessful shots. Junior mid?elder Chris Wysocki 
took the ?rst shot, which was 
just wide of the goal; senior 
mid?elder John Crawshaw 
took the second shot, which 
was saved by Emorys keeper.
Carnegie Mellons goalkeeper, junior Christopher 
Madden, made four saves 
throughout the game.
We were off our game 
and couldnt ?nd a rhythm. [It 
was] one of the few games in 
which thats happened to us. 
Unfortunately for us, Emory 
was on their game and took 
advantage of our average performance, senior defender 
Alex Abedian said.
The Tartans concluded 
their regular season play with 
a record of 1231 and a UAA 
record of 421. Carnegie 
Mellon will be entering postseason play and will receive 
its bid as of 1:30 p.m. on 
Monday.
A10  thetartan.org/sports The Tartan  November 5, 2012
Tartans conquer University of Chicago at home
ADAM GRUBER
Sports Co-Editor
After a poor offensive 
showing against the Washington University in St. Louis 
Bears two weekends ago, the 
Tartans rediscovered the offense that had them at 40 by 
the end of September.
The Tartans played the University of Chicago Maroons on 
Saturday in their last home 
game of the season, defeating 
them 3114 due to a tremendous rushing performance.  
This victory brings the Tartans to 63 in the season and 
11 in conference play.
The Maroons season fell to 
45 in the season and 02 in 
conference play.
Senior running back Patrick Blanks lead the Tartans in 
their victory over the Maroons 
with his 159 rushing yards and 
three touchdowns, the Tartans 
put together 235 yards of positive offense on the ground.
Blanks is averaging 82.6 
rushing yards per game and 
has scored 10 touchdowns 
this season, both of which are 
highs on the team.
This was the ?fth time 
in Blanks career and the 
third time this season that he 
rushed for three touchdowns 
in a single game.
It was clearer [Saturday] 
than ever before how much 
Patrick means to our offense 
and the team, junior quarterback Rob Kalkstein said. We 
are a different team when he 
is on the ?eld.
The Carnegie Mellon frontline defense held the Maroons 
rushing attack to just 71 total yards, accumulating eight 
tackles for losses and two 
sacks.
Junior inside linebacker 
Akwasi Brefo led the squad 
with 10 tackles.
Junior defensive lineman 
Ryan Joks aggressive play on 
the line resulted in two tackles 
for a loss.
Junior wide receiver Tim 
Kikta inched closer to the 
Carnegie Mellon receiving 
yards record, putting in 31 
yards on Saturday.
With 32 receiving yards 
left for the upcoming game 
against Case Western Reserve 
University, he has the potential to break the record very 
soon.
First-year kicker Connor 
Young kicked a career-long 
45-yard ?eld goal in the third 
to put the Tartans up 1714. 
Carnegie Mellon never relinquished the lead after that 
score.
On Saturday, the Tartans 
will close this years campaign 
on the road against the Case 
Western Reserve Spartans. 
Kickoff is at 2 p.m.
Last season, the Tartans 
lost to the Spartans in a shootout, losing by a score of 3824. 
If the Carnegie Mellon offense can put up offensive 
numbers reminiscent of those 
in their performance against 
the Maroons this past Saturday, the Spartans should 
prove to be no problem for the 
Tartans.
Kelsey Scott/Staff Photographer
The Tartans displayed their strong defense on Saturday by tackling a University of Chicago player.
ABBY SMITH
Assistant Sports Editor
Junior wide receiver Tim Kikta is a big 
man on campus. At 6'3" and nearly 200 
pounds, the towering Tartan football superstar has been one of the top contributors this 
season and is a critical member of Carnegie 
Mellons team.
The Pittsburgh native is also one of the 
teams top scorers, with ?ve touchdowns this 
season.
Kikta was named the University Athletic 
Association and Eastern College Athletic 
Conference Southwest Athlete of the Week 
during the second week of September, 
prompted by his performance during the 
Tartans 377 victory.
He set a Carnegie Mellon single-game record with 158 receiving yards in the game. 
Kikta caught four passes that game, including touchdown receptions of 82 and 39 yards 
from junior quarterback Rob Kalkstein. The 
82-yard score was the longest touchdown reception by a Tartan since 2004.
Tim has been a great offensive player 
this year. I cant even tell you how many 
times Ive thrown a pass and hes been right 
there to make an amazing catch, Kalkstein 
said. He also has made a number of touchdowns over 50 yards, which is outstanding.
Kikta does not brag about his personal 
achievements; rather, he focuses on the historic season for the team. The Tartans went 
40 at the beginning of the season for the 
?rst time since 2006.
This year has been an awesome one for 
us, he said. From the start, I felt like it was 
going to be a great season. He attributed 
the success of the team to the return of a 
lot of starters and recognized the giant improvement between this year and previous 
ones.
Although the Tartans had a phenomenal 
start, the team has faltered, dropping to a 
53 record. But still, team-focused Kikta 
is optimistic about the remainder of the 
season.
We lost a lot of key running backs and 
middle backers due to injuries, he said. 
But we are trying to get them back in shape 
as soon as we can.
Kikta is certainly no stranger to the world 
of football, having played since second 
grade.
 I love the camaraderie of the sport, he 
said. Getting to know [my teammates] is 
certainly my favorite part of playing. It truly 
is the ultimate team sport.
His teammates also admire him for his 
optimism and dedication. Big Time Timmy 
Tim, Kalkstein said, always brings a positive attitude. In the huddle he knows exactly 
what to say. He is always into the game, and 
helps us stay focused.
Kikta said that during his nearly 15 years 
of playing football, he has grown so much 
as a player, and has especially come a long 
way during his college career. One game 
during freshman year, I lined up on the 
wrong side of the ball three times, he said. 
I tried to convince coach that the quarterback [Kalkstein] called the play wrong when 
really I was totally and completely at fault.
Kikta and Kalkstein have become close 
friends since their ?rst year at Carnegie Mellon. Both had internships in Pittsburgh over 
the summer and are currently roommates. 
We would always practice passing over the 
summer, which I really think helped our 
chemistry this year, Kalkstein said.
Kikta is currently a mechanical engineering major and hopes to work with cars and 
airplanes. I would love to design vehicles, 
he said. Right now, Im looking for internships where I would get to explore my passion for vehicles and engineering even 
more.
For Kikta, football serves as a stress reliever from Carnegie Mellons heavy workload. From Friday night dinners with the 
never-ending pasta bowl at Olive Garden to 
having our offensive coordinator drive us 
around the ?eld in his golf cart, Kikta said 
hes become best friends with these guys.
Kikta and the team will take the ?eld for 
the last time this season for the away game 
against Case Western Reserve University on 
Saturday.
ATHLETE PROFILE
Tim Kikta is 32 yards away from breaking school record
Jennifer Coloma/Operations Manager
Mens soccer falls to EmoryVolleyball ?nishes ?fth in UAA
Jos Lopez/Junior Photographer 
No. 13 sophomore defender Jakob Rohwer jumps to header the ball.
File photo by Jonathan Carreon/Photo Editor
No. 6 junior setter Emily Wright sets the ball to her teammates in an effort to ?nish the play.
ADAM GRUBER
Sports Co-Editor
Carnegie Mellons volleyball team competed in the 
University Athletic Association (UAA) tournament last 
week, playing Case Western 
Reserve University on Friday 
and the University of Rochester on Saturday.
In the ?rst game against 
Case Western Reserve, the 
Tartans won 2519, but then 
lost the next two games 2515 
and 2513, respectively.
With a 2520 win in the 
fourth game, the Tartans 
forced a tie-breaking ?fth 
game. But the Tartans came 
up short, losing that game 
1511.
Sophomore right side hitter Ali Celentano gave a strong 
performance, recording 30 
kills in this match. First-year 
setter Emily Lawlis racked up 
26 assists and junior setter 
Emily Wright added 15. Junior defensive specialist Ali 
Nichols led the defense with 
21 digs, and junior outside 
hitter Rachel Miller had 17.
The loss put the Tartans 
in the ?fth-place consolation 
match on Saturday against 
the University of Rochester 
Yellowjackets.
Every game in Saturdays 
match was tightly contested. 
The Tartans won the ?rst 
match 2522 before dropping the second one 2826. 
Then they won the third game 
2927, lost the fourth 2513, 
and closed out the match with 
the victory in game ?ve with 
159.
Celentano topped her performance on Friday, accumulating 36 kills in this match 
to lead the Tartans to their 
32 victory. She also added 
19 digs. Junior outside hitter 
Senna Parsa added 16 kills, 
and Miller had 12.
Nichols had 23 digs on the 
defensive end, Miller added 
12, and Lawlis had 11. At the 
net, junior middle blocker Olivia Mora had six blocks.
Im proud of the team for 
playing their hardest, even up 
to the last match of the season, senior defensive specialist Kasey LaMothe said.

---------------------------------------------------

Brendan Frederick
A Carnegie Mellon alumnus forays into 
the music journalism industry  B6
11.05.12 Volume 107, Issue 10
Dramaturgy
A project to translate a German text is 
underway in the School of Drama  B8

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
Adventurous cats and a bird that needs an 
attitude adjustment in this weeks comics.
11
Dollar MovieAB Films serves up big explosions, wicked 
abs, and wisecracking teddy bears this week.7
The Tartan . Box 119 . UC Suite 103 . Carnegie Mellon University . 5000 Forbes Ave . Pittsburgh, PA 15213 . www.thetartan.org .  2012 The Tartan
PUBLISHER Christa Hester EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Emily Dobler
PILLBOX EDITOR Rachel Cohen ASSISTANT PILLBOX EDITOR Laura Scherb COMICS EDITOR Nicole Hamilton 
ART EDITOR Adelaide Cole PHOTO EDITOR Jonathan Carreon 
COPY MANAGER Evan Kahn COVER Jennifer Coloma
8
34610
regulars...
Advice
Everything you need to know about TA/student 
relationships and local bars. 
3
...diversions
...this week only
Oxblood
The more muted shade of red is back in a big 
way for this falls fashion season.
4
Red
Swifts newest album offers typical themes with 
some new variations. 
5
Brendan FrederickAn alumnus pursues a career in hip-hop 
journalism at BUZZMEDIA. 
6
Zedd
The music producer and DJs debut album 
Clarity is fresh and powerful.  
7
Dramaturgy 
Associate professor Wendy Arons wins a 
prestigious grant for the School of Drama.
8
Cory Arcangel
A new exhibit at the Carnegie Museum of Art 
examines artistic merit in digital technology. 
10
Did You Know?
Did you know that 50 years ago students 
opposed efforts to change the alma mater?
10
Puzzles
Flex your brain muscles with this weeks 
sudoku puzzles. 
13
Horoscopes
The stars are so bossy. See what the future 
has in store in Horoscopes. 
14
Calendar
A look at the week ahead in music, culture, 
and community.
15
 Deborah Kass
The Andy Warhol Museums new exhibit 
features a Carnegie Mellon alumna.
3
Paperhouse
Paperhouse talks about the polarizing music 
journalism site Pitchfork.
5

---------------------------------------------------

art
pillbox 11.05.123
Sex, culture, pop: Deborah Kass
New Warhol Museum exhibit examines feminism, Judaism
What do you get when you cross Andy Warhol and a 
pop-culture-obsessed Jewish feminist? Deborah Kass.
The Andy Warhol Museum is currently hosting a 
massive mid-career retrospective of the artist and 
Carnegie Mellon alumna (CFA 74) called Deborah Kass: 
Before and Happily Ever After. The exhibit features 
three decades worth of work by Kass  an impressive 
80 works ranging from early abstract landscapes to 
appropriations of Warhols famous works.
Kass is a New York-based artist whose work explores 
the intersection of pop culture, art history, and 
self-identity. Most of her work is centered on her 
own identity as a Jewish lesbian, but the exhibit also 
includes a good deal of her older landscape paintings.
In Kass early work, the technique is as important 
as the concept. In fact, the conceptual basis for her 
early paintings, mostly from the 80s, is often hard 
to determine without the informational labels that 
the museum provides. Luckily for museum-goers, 
the paintings are visually strong on their own, with 
bright colors and bold brushstrokes that grab viewers 
attention.
Kass work took an interesting turn in the early 90s, 
when she began appropriating Warhols work with a 
little twist of her own. Instead of featuring prominent 
celebrities in her works, Kass focused the work on her 
own heroes, including writer Gertrude Stein, baseball 
player Sandy Koufax, and singer and actress Barbra 
Courtesy of The Andy Warhol Museum
Advice for awkward people
Dear Patrick,
Im a TA, and I really love 
the job. The problem is 
I have a crush on one of 
my students, and I think 
he likes me too! He has 
an A in the class, but he 
comes to my office hours 
all the time asking for 
extra credit. I think I could 
lose my job if I pursued 
anything. What should I 
do?
Thanks,
Harlotry Opportunity 
Tempting, Fear 
Overreaching 
Relationship, Sexual 
Tension Unbelievably 
Dripping, Eagerly Needs 
Tips
Dear HOT FOR STUDENT,
Well go ahead and assume 
this guy is into you (why 
else would anyone go to 
office hours?). If youre 
unethical, then its pretty 
simple: Next time he comes 
to office hours, offer him 
some special extra credit. 
Maybe hold some special 
office hours in your dorm, if 
you catch my drift. Based 
on his performance, you 
can decide whether or not 
to give him any actual extra 
credit.
If you want to stay ethical, 
think about this: If you grade, 
then you really shouldnt 
date your students. If you 
dont, then its probably 
okay. Consider running 
it past your professor or 
checking the official school 
guidelines. I tried to do 
some research about your 
question, except all I found 
were really inappropriate 
videos.
You probably dont want 
to do what they did,
Patrick Hoskins
Dear Patrick,
I go out to PHI on average 
four times a week. Its 
gotten to the point where 
I know the bartender 
and all the middle-aged 
regulars by name. Is this 
too much? Should I try 
other bars? Or, perish the 
thought, go out to bars 
less often? Its certainly 
taking a toll on my wallet, 
but I need my Wednesday 
night beer. My liver begs 
for an answer.
I wrote this from a bar,
Buying Alcohol Regularly, 
Purchases Highly 
Intoxicating
Dear BAR PHI,
If going to PHI is wrong, I 
dont want to be right. Its 
cheap, its close, and its got 
booze. Thats all I look for in 
a bar, but other people are 
pickier. I probably should tell 
you to go out and explore 
the world of Pittsburgh bars 
but thatd be hypocritical 
of me. And I am not a 
hypocrite.
Having said that, you should 
go out and explore the 
world of Pittsburgh bars. 
PHI is a great weeknight 
bar, but its pretty shabby 
by comparison. Take a 
weekend off, check out what 
else is out there, and then 
come back to the sweet 
embrace of PHI. If moneys 
a problem, then stick with 
the drink specials for a good 
deal on booze. Theres no 
reason not to go to PHI on a 
Wednesday.
Other than wanting 
to preserve your selfrespect,
Patrick Hoskins
Need advice? Send queries 
to advice@thetartan.org.
About exploring new relationships and bars
Streisand, to name a few. Streisand appears as 
the subject of Kass well-known The Jewish 
Jackie series, which portrays Streisand in the 
style of Warhols paintings of Jackie Kennedy.
At this point, Kass work started making clearer 
conceptual statements about feminism and 
Jewishness. By focusing on being Jewish  as 
opposed to Judaism as a religion  Kass brings 
an often-overlooked group into the foreground 
without religious undertones. Her work shows 
the cultural stigmas attached to the group.
The highlight of the exhibit is the work from 
Kass series The Warhol Project, which she 
worked on throughout the 90s. In this series, 
Kass put her own spin on Warhols works, 
copying his technique of combining painting 
and silk-screening, but replacing his cool, 
detached subjects with people who had personal 
significance to her. These works are scattered 
throughout the museum, often with Warhols 
original works placed directly next to Kass 
appropriations. It is often difficult to tell which 
work is whose, since they are visually very 
similar, but a closer look reveals the pairing to be 
an interesting juxtaposition of subjects.
One of the largest pieces in the exhibit  
and an outstanding example of Kass Warhol 
appropriations  is Americas Most Wanted. 
Playing off Warhols Thirteen Most Wanted 
Men, which featured silkscreens of criminals, 
Kass work replaces criminals with well-known 
curators.
The exhibit closes with some of Kass most 
recent work, from the late 2000s. This work 
expands on her study of art history and popular 
culture, taking examples of post-war painting 
and pairing them with lyrics from songs in 
The Great American Songbook. The project 
combines emotionally stimulating song lyrics 
with modernist pop painting styles.
Throughout the exhibit, Kass thoughtful work is 
perfectly interspersed with Warhols, creating an 
impressive and memorable retrospective of the 
artists career.
Allison Cosby | Staffwriter
Before and Happily Ever After, the title work 
of the exhibit, examines the implications of 
getting a nose job in the Jewish culture. 

---------------------------------------------------

4fashion
pillbox 11.05.12
A recently rediscovered color, closest to maroon or 
burgundy, hit the runways this season and has since 
been embraced by celebrities and fashion designers 
alike. This darker, cooler, more muted shade of red made 
an appearance in this years collections of Yves Saint 
Laurent, Marc Jacobs, and Alexander Wang.
Termed oxblood by fashion enthusiasts due to its 
resemblance to the color of oxygenated blood, the color 
has garnered attention from well-known personalities 
such as Blake Lively and Kate Middleton. While the 
former donned a Gucci embellished minidress in 
the wine-colored hue, the latter opted for a more 
conservative blazer and skirt combination by French 
designer Paule Ka.
Despite the myriad interpretations of the color red, 
oxblood has been agreed upon as the color of the 
moment. In The Huf?ngton Post article Why Wear 
Oxblood? writer Lily Avnet explains that the color may 
have moved quickly into the spotlight because people 
are so weary of the severity of the color red.
In other words, oxblood is appreciated for its understated 
quality, regardless of its gory name. Fashion articles like 
Oxblood...the New Black! on the nail polish blog EG 
Nails It, Oxblood Love on the She Knows blog, and 
Trend Report: There will be oxblood in The Washington 
Post indicate how this hue is becoming a staple in 
everyones wardrobe.
Since oxblood is the color of the season, its easy to ?nd 
anything in stores in this shade of red. Take any of these 
suggestions, or create your own look.
Preppy
Feeling girly? Rock a burgundy dress or skirt, such as 
the Oxblood Ribbed Pleated Skirt from Topshop. Pair the 
skirt with a ?tted black tee, patterned tights, and boots. 
For a preppier look, match a pair of BlankNYC designer 
jeans in rhubarb with a shirt in a neutral color. Complete 
the out?t with a skinny brown belt and a pair of brown 
Oxfords. If your style is more sophisticated, try a 
burgundy blazer, such as the Oxblood Ponte Blazer from 
Topshop, with jeans, a beige top, and black ballet ?ats.
Edgy
Get an edgier look by ?aunting a pair of wine-colored Dr. 
Martens Pascal boots with your out?t. If youre willing 
to splurge, make a statement with the Rich & Skinny 
Legacy Leather Faux Leather Skinny Jeans. Wear them 
with a baggy sweater in tan or gray to look fashionable, 
but not over the top.
Combining Trends
If youre a girl who likes to stand out in a crowd, combine 
autumn and winter trends and pick up a pair of oxblood 
velvet leggings from American Apparel. Wear them with 
a black or gray tunic for an awesome out?t. The peplum 
hem is another major look this year, so a burgundy 
peplum top is a great way to incorporate two trends into 
an out?t without making it too overwhelming. Patterned 
jeans are also everywhere at the moment; what better 
way to mix trends than with a pair of oxblood patterned 
jeans? Try the Current/Elliott The Ankle Print Crop 
Skinny Jeans in the color Crimson Tapestry. Guys and 
girls can both rock this trendy look.
Nail Polishes
If youre weary of buying clothing in oxblood, try nail 
polish colors such as Essies Berry Hard or Lacy Not 
Racy and OPIs Bastille My Heart.
Colors
Since burgundy is considered a statement color, it works 
best when worn with neutral colors, such as black, 
beige, and gray. However, you can spice up your out?t 
with a touch of gold, or be daring with burgundy jeans 
and a navy blazer. Pastels also work well with oxblood, 
allowing you to keep wearing your mint green or pale 
blue summer tops through the colder months. Olive with 
burgundy gives off a wintry vibe, so a pair of burgundy 
jeans and an olive sweater accessorized with an offwhite circle scarf makes for a perfect cold-weather out?t.
Oxblood is such a major trend mainly because it is 
universally ?attering. It complements all skin tones and 
works for any style, so go grab something (or a couple of 
things) in oxblood, and start styling.
Nikita Mishra | Junior Staffwriter
Jonathan Carreon | Photo Editor
Senior biology major Varun Deshpande pairs an 
oxblood cardigan with dark jeans and a neutral scarf 
for a laid-back, preppy look.
Oxblood makes its mark on fall fashion
Check out these out?t ideas on how to work this trend into your own wardrobe
Jonathan Carreon | Photo Editor
Senior business administration major Ugonna Osuala 
pairs burgundy pants with a gray coat for an edgier 
look.

---------------------------------------------------

music
pillbox 11.05.125
Paperhouse
On Pitchfork
Pitchfork is incredibly pretentious. After I saw the review 
that Pitchfork gave my favorite album, Ill never read 
them again. Pitchfork doesnt know what theyre talking 
about.
Its not uncommon to hear rhetoric like this when you 
talk to hardcore music enthusiasts. While I have issues 
with the way music journalism site Pitchfork operates, its 
disconcerting that there are people who unequivocally 
discredit everything Pitchfork does.
Pitchfork, established in Chicago in 1996, is one of the 
most widely known music journalism sources in the nation, 
coming into existence around the time when college rock 
burst into the mainstream. In the almost two decades 
since its creation, Pitchfork has become an indie taste 
maker and unrelenting hype machine. Predictably, people 
tend to either love or hate Pitchfork.
Its not that hard to justify disliking Pitchfork. Its rating scale 
is unbalanced; its review process is seemingly skewed 
toward music that ?ts its projected image as opposed 
to the quality of the music, and their reviews tend to be 
pretentious ramblings that sometimes act as soapboxes 
instead of legitimate, in-depth critiques (see its review of 
The Airbone Toxic Events self-titled debut). However, the 
staff at Pitchfork undeniably has an expansive knowledge 
of popular music and a ?ne-tuned understanding of the 
type of music that its audience seeks out.
I dont hold a lot of faith in Pitchforks reviews anymore, but 
the sheer amount of cultural knowledge that it brings to 
its reviews  information on contemporaries, in?uences, 
?lm culture, current events, and analyses of local music 
scenes is impressive, to say the least. Its completely 
legitimate to criticize Pitchfork, but to discredit it entirely is 
a gross oversight.
Matt Mastricova | Staffwriter
top 10 on WRCT 88.3 FM
most played albums of the last week
Flying Lotus  Until the Quiet Comes
The xx  Coexist
Neurosis  Honor Found in Decay
The Jon Spencer Blues Explosion  Meat and Bone
Ry Cooder  Election Special
Absyme  Strange Rites
Ty Segall  Twins
300 Basses  Sei Ritornelli
The Presets  Paci?ca
Pig Destroyer  Book Burner
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
Its a Red-lettered album for Swift
Red pairs well-worn sentiments with a new sound
Taylor Swift became famous for her bright countrycrossover sound and instantly captured the coveted 
teen girl demographic upon the release of her 
eponymous ?rst album. While her new album Red is 
de?nitely a departure from her usual style, it is still 
largely a success.
The albums title track, Red, is one of the clearest 
examples of Swifts changed style. Red addresses 
the same classic Swift themes of young, passionate, 
unrequited love, built on the remains of her original 
country sound  the original demo recording even 
opens with the twang of a banjo  but with a new 
infusion of pop. 22 uses a strong backbeat and feelgood lyrics to chronicle Swifts slightly more mature 
emotional outlook as a 22-year-old. Similarly, the 
hit single that preceded Red, We Are Never Ever 
Getting Back Together, combined a catchy, upbeat 
tune with just the right amount of teen angst to top 
the charts for weeks.
Perhaps the most surprising song of the album for 
many long-time Swift fans is I Knew You Were 
Trouble, which combines a catchy refrain with a 
wailing beat. Though this song does a good job of 
exhibiting Swifts impressive voice, it seems a little 
confused in its purpose.
While her musical style may have changed in Red, 
Swift de?nitely decided to go back to her roots when 
it came to subject matter. Red doesnt add much to 
Swifts somewhat tired themes; the songs ?it from 
celebrating young love to bitterly denouncing it with 
the same element of girl power that originally made 
her music so appealing. While many see Swifts 
stylistic adaptation as a bad thing, Red continues 
the trend that started as far back as her second 
album, Fearless, and continues in her third, Speak 
Now. All of these show a move to a more popfocused style for Swift as she gradually strays from 
her original country sound.
Despite the pervasive new style, Red also carries a 
heavy load of standard Swift-style ballads, including 
Treacherous and Come Back... Be Here. Songs 
like these align more closely with what many Swift 
fans are probably expecting and do a good job of 
tying the album back to her roots. More charged 
songs like Starlight also appeal to a traditional 
Swift demographic; with its passionate crescendo of 
a chorus and sometimes unfamiliar electronic beats, 
Starlight is as evocative as similar power ballads 
from her previous albums, but with a new, more 
synthetic twist.
Overall, Red represents a broad sampling of Swifts 
traditional offerings with a few surprises thrown 
in. Although her exploration of musical style might 
alienate a few traditional followers, her more 
electronic, pop-laden sound might also attract a few 
new ones, and stalwart fans will be intrigued by the 
evolution.
Swift also threw in a few collaborations, including 
The Last Time with the largely unknown Gary 
Lightbody and Everything Has Changed with 
the ever-more-popular British artist Ed Sheeran. 
Songs like these appeal to a broader fan base. Swift 
collaborates especially well with Sheeran, whose 
music falls into a similar genre as her own.
Theres no doubt that Red has a few missteps; 
sometimes Swift ventures a little bit too far out of 
her comfort zone. In the song I Knew You Were 
Trouble, she experiments with her sound in a way 
that just doesnt ?t in with the rest of the album. 
However, the outlook on the album is generally 
positive.
Red will undoubtedly spark claims that Swift is a 
sellout who has abandoned her original fan base, 
as new albums from big-name artists always do. 
However, Red exempli?es Swifts diversity as an 
artist and her willingness to experiment, rather than 
her pandering to the masses. Like Swifts previous 
work, Red will still be the go-to album for the 
average teenager at the happy start of a relationship 
 or more often, at the bitter end of one.
Brian Trimboli | Staffwriter
Courtesy of Eva Rinaldi via Flickr
Taylor Swifts new album, Red, shows her 
evolution from country musician to pop singer.

---------------------------------------------------

6community
pillbox 11.05.12
As a student at Carnegie Mellon, Brendan Frederick 
wanted to blend his love for hip-hop and writing into 
a meaningful career. Frederick (H&SS 04) is the vice 
president of music programming and development for 
BUZZMEDIA, a media company that owns and operates 
over 40 music and pop culture websites.
Frederick became involved in hip-hop journalism as 
an undergraduate. Initially obsessed with breaking 
into the music business as a talent representative, he 
decided to try his hand at writing. Although he has since 
moved on to careers at XXL, Mass Appeal, and Complex 
magazines, Frederick ?rst honed his editorial skills in the 
classroom.
The process of reading someones story and dissecting 
and tearing it apart and telling them what they could 
have done differently, that was de?nitely the most useful 
thing I took away from CMU. Thats what made me feel 
like I can be an editor, said Frederick, who majored in 
creative writing and minored in business.
Frederick attributes his editing skills to the creative 
writing faculty at Carnegie Mellon, particularly associate 
professor of English Sharon Dilworth. According to 
Dilworth, Frederick was a driven student.
There are certain students who come along who have 
an energy and an interest in life that immediately sets 
them apart from the rest of the student body. They are 
infectious in their enthusiasm  Brendan was that kind 
of student, Dilworth said via email. He was so engaged 
 so smart and savvy. He didnt need encouragement. 
He was going places well before he even knew where it 
was that he wanted to go. You dont forget the Brendan 
Fredericks.
While still trying to break into the music business, 
Frederick applied to internships at record labels, but was 
not accepted. Unless you have a connection or know 
someone, its pretty much impossible to get your foot in 
the door, he said.
Eventually, Frederick took another route by focusing 
on his interest in writing. He got an internship as a 
mix-tape columnist at RIME Magazine, a small hip-hop 
publication. He used that opportunity as a springboard 
to open doors that were previously closed to him. A 
turning point came during Fredericks senior year of 
college. He was named editor-in-chief of Mass Appeal 
magazine a year after becoming an intern there. In his 
role as editor, he was ?nally able to mix his interests in 
hip-hop, journalism, and business.
Brendan is a real good kid, said Elliott Wilson, owner of 
hip-hop culture blog Rap Radar and editor of RESPECT. 
magazine. While Wilson was an editor at XXL magazine, 
he hired Frederick to enhance the sites lackluster 
website. Brendan was the reason XXL was able to beat 
a lot of our competitors, he said.
Throughout his career, Frederick was able to build a 
reputation as a tech-savvy editor. This was especially 
useful at Complex magazine, where he worked for 
four-and-a-half years before joining BUZZMEDIA in 
September.
Complex, founded by Mark Ecko, owns advertising 
rights to popular blogs. The magazine is an extension 
of a larger brand and is an anomaly among music 
publications. As Frederick puts it, Complex is not exactly 
hip-hop, hipster, or pop: Its somewhere in the middle.
The hip-hop world thinks of Complex as a fashion 
magazine, and this sort of white mainstream media 
world thinks of us as a hip-hop magazine. Its almost 
like we have the best of both worlds. We can get away 
with taking a lot of risks and doing things and asking 
questions that a lot of people might not be able to, 
Frederick said.
It is a huge departure from the common newsstand 
magazines featuring an image of a celebrity against a 
white background. A lot of magazines, their business 
is still based on selling magazines on the newsstands, 
Frederick said. Thats why you see so many magazines 
with a celebrity in front of a white background and cover 
lines that are designed to catch peoples eyes.
The print issue is a canvas for experimentation. Justin 
Bieber was featured on the Complex front cover for 
the magazines 10th anniversary. The picture showed 
Bieber in an uncharacteristic role: getting pummeled 
in a boxing ring. The move re?ected the magazines 
marketing technique. If you hate Bieber, you can see 
him get punched in the face. If you love him, you get to 
see him in this crazy, grisly scenario, Frederick said. 
However, Complex is more concerned with its digital 
platform, a constantly updated outlet for music, fashion, 
and political news.
Fredericks work at BUZZMEDIA is similar to what he 
did at Complex, but he focuses more on acquiring and 
maintaining media sites, including SPIN, Concrete Loop, 
The Hype Machine, and many others. On its website, 
BUZZMEDIA boasts more than 40 million people visiting 
its member sites. The company has been bolstering its 
pro?le through acquisitions: In July it acquired SPIN 
magazine, and in August it acquired three punk rock 
music blogs, including Under the Gun Review.
One of Fredericks primary tasks is helping music 
magazine SPIN transition from a print-based business 
model to a web-based format: BUZZ bought SPIN back 
in July, and despite being a very well-known music 
magazine with a long history, they still have a long way 
to go before they ?nd the same level of success on the 
web. Right now Im working out of the SPIN of?ce, trying 
to help them rethink their whole operation.
Although Frederick is removed from his college days, 
he offers the same advice that he received while at 
Carnegie Mellon: The cornerstone of a meaningful 
writing career is having con?dence. Having con?dence 
in your writing and having con?dence in your abilities 
to critique other peoples writing are two totally valuable 
skills that I learned through the creative writing 
program.
Jamar Thrasher | Junior Staffwriter
Frederick makes splash in music journalism
Carnegie Mellon graduate combines interests in music, business, writing
Courtesy of Matt Crowley via Flickr
At media company BUZZMEDIA, Carnegie Mellon alumnus Brendan Frederick works to revamp print music 
publications like SPIN for the web. In his pursuit of a career in music journalism, Frederick found an 
interdisciplinary industry that combined his passions for writing, music, and business.

---------------------------------------------------

music
pillbox 11.05.127
If youre into the electronic dance music (EDM) scene, 
then surely youve listened to Zedds new album, Clarity. 
If you dont know what all the fuss is about concerning 
EDM, then get to an iTunes store and check this album 
out.
If youre just starting to dip your toes into this music 
scene, Anton Zaslavski  better known by his stage 
name Zedd  is a good place to start. The 23-yearold Russian-German music producer and DJ has a 
crisp, clean sound that still manages to hit those deep, 
reverberating bass notes that are oh-so satisfying.
Zedds debut album Clarity was released in early 
October through Interscope Records. Before releasing 
the album, Zedd released singles through OWSLA, 
Skrillexs record label, and went on worldwide tours with 
Porter Robinson, Lady Gaga, and others.
After releasing great singles like Shave It and Stars 
Come Out  as well as making sick remixes for the 
likes of Fatboy Slim, The Black Eyed Peas, Wolfgang 
Gartner, and Swedish House Ma?a  its about time 
that this rising star released his own album.
Clarity is unique in its coherent message. Its an actual 
album, with a ?ow and a consistent theme thats hard to 
?nd in a world full of EDM singles and LPs. Many EDM 
artists have a hard time creating albums, since often 
they dont need to release albums as long as theyre 
coming out with singles and booking tour dates.
But if you listen to Clarity in order, from Hourglass to 
Epos, it becomes clear that Zedd was aiming to create 
a speci?c musical experience in those 45 minutes. By 
the end of the album, you feel as if youve listened to one 
of his live sets, not 10 different songs.
Hourglass, which incorporates the sounds of clocks 
ticking, imperceptibly ?ows into the next song, Shave It 
Up. Many of the songs  Codec, Stache, and Epos 
in particular  have Zedds signature bass timbres, 
making the sound crisp, gnarly, and satisfying.
Two especially grooving house tunes that appear 
back-to-back on the album are Fall Into Sky featuring 
Ellie Goulding and Follow You Down featuring Bright 
Lights. The vocals and subject matter of the lyrics make 
the two songs ?ow together almost seamlessly.
Zedds lead singles, Spectrum and Clarity, do a good 
job of representing the feel of the album as a whole. 
Spectrum, lauded as Zedds best work when it came 
out over the summer, is a beautiful song with great lyrics 
and spectacular beats. The version of Spectrum in the 
album is shortened, but the extended version is available 
on iTunes.
Zedd stands apart from many EDM DJs because of his 
origins: Hes a classically trained musician who started 
playing the piano and drums at age four. Take that, 
Justin Bieber.
Making a good EDM album is hard work, but with 
Zedds classical training, hes managed to create 
something worthwhile in Clarity.
Christa Hester | Publisher
Zedds Clarity presents clear message
Electronic dance music debut album satis?es with uni?ed themes and ful?lling beats
Matthew Zurcher | Staffwriter
Sylvester Stallone leads his merry band of warriors into 
a sea of box of?ce success in The Expendables 2. As a 
follow-up to its predecessor, The Expendables 2 is an 
improvement. In this next installment, a basic mission 
turns into a quest for revenge against a villain who 
possesses a dangerous weapon. Youll get a cute dash 
of self reference here and there, mostly to balance out 
the violence. Cameos abound, and most of the humor 
really does work. But for anyone besides the most 
casual moviegoer, The Expendables 2 is just a lot of 
explosions.
The Expendables 2
Thursday, Nov. 8
8 10 12
Ted
Saturday, Nov. 10
8 10 12
Seth MacFarlanes wisecracking ?lth continues its 
?xation on children in Ted. Dangling in a state of arrested 
childhood, Mark Wahlbergs character struggles with his 
adulthood and the effects of his friendship with Ted, his 
walking, talking, sentient teddy bear. Of course, this is 
MacFarlanes movie, so the stuffed bear would obviously 
buy a few prostitutes, use cocaine, and be Wahlbergs 
redeemer. The script is mildly funny in the way that 
everything MacFarlane has ever done is mildly funny, but 
the ?lm is damaged by its creators seemingly boundless 
gift for masking incoherence with vague, ?accid cultural 
riffs.
Magic Mike
Friday, Nov. 9
8 10 12
Magic Mike is the best head-fake of the year. Veteran 
director Stephen Soderbergh (Oceans Eleven, 
Contagion) takes an exploitation picture that aims 
to make bank off Channing Tatums abs and turns it 
into a deft economic rumination. Tatum gives a truly 
nuanced and effective performance as a 19-year-old 
who turns to stripping in a rough economy, and Matthew 
McConaughey contributes another great supporting 
turn in what has been his year of resurgence. Carnegie 
Mellon alumnus Matt Bomer (CFA 00) also makes an 
appearance as Tatums stripper colleague. As usual, 
Soderbergh goes overboard with his color palette, but 
its a small complaint in this years best blockbuster.
dollarmovie
McConomy Auditorium, University Center

---------------------------------------------------

theater
pillbox 11.05.1298theater
pillbox 11.05.12
The Carnegie Mellon School of Drama has received 
its ?rst ever National Endowments for the Humanities 
(NEH) grant, thanks to the research proposal of associate 
professor of dramatic literature Wendy Arons and her 
group of collaborators. The project, which will translate 
German philosopher Gotthold Ephraim Lessings 
Hamburgische Dramaturgie, is focused on both theater 
theory and translation, and has signi?cant value in both 
?elds.
The Award
Arons and three other scholars from around the country 
received a grant for $289,697 from the NEHs Scholarly 
Editions and Translations Program. According to the 
NEH website, this program supports the preparation 
of editions and translations of pre-existing texts and 
documents of value to the humanities that are currently 
inaccessible or available in inadequate editions. 
Arons project ?ts this description perfectly, since 
only an incomplete English version of Hamburgische 
Dramaturgie is currently available: Not all of the 101 
essays from the book have been translated, and those 
that have are missing signi?cant parts.
Arons, a dedicated scholar of 18th-century German 
theater, had the idea for the project when a colleague 
mentioned that the current English translation of 
Hamburgische Dramaturgie was incomplete. That was 
actually a surprise to me at the time ... and that piqued 
my interest. So at that point, I thought, it really is time for 
a new translation, and a complete one, Arons said.
The Original Text
Hamburgische Dramaturgie is one of the most signi?cant 
historical texts in the dramaturgy ?eld; in fact, Lessing 
coined the term dramaturgy, earning himself the title 
the father of modern dramaturgy.
Hamburgische Dramaturgie also has a fascinating 
historical context. The collection consists of 101 essays 
that Lessing wrote during his time with the Hamburg 
National Theatre, which was created in 1767 by a 
group of businessmen in Hamburg, Germany. Prior to 
then, most performances in the area were presented 
by traveling troupes. You didnt have, at that time in 
Germany, any sort of house where normal, ordinary 
citizens could go and see the theater any week of the 
year, Arons explained. So they instituted this in 
Hamburg.
Lessing, a prominent playwright and dramatist, was 
brought into the Hamburg National Theatre as a 
consultant and artistic director, where he spent his time 
School of Drama wins its ?rst NEH grant
Associate professor sets out to translate G.E. Lessings historic Hamburgische Dramaturgie
by Allison Cosby | Staffwriter[]
While an undergraduate student, Arons studied abroad 
in East Germany and went on to study dramaturgy 
and the German language in graduate school at the 
University of California, San Diego, keeping her research 
focused on 18th-century German theater.
Its an interesting time in history, Arons said. Its the 
time when everything is changing, when theyre moving 
from this moment of the actors as traveling troupes who 
have no status in society to actors as celebrities and as 
established ?gures in society. Arons even wrote her ?rst 
book on the implications of the transition for women in 
the 18th century.
Arons and Michael Chemers of the University of 
California, Santa Cruz, who used to be a colleague of 
Arons at Carnegie Mellon, originally applied for the NEH 
grant in 2010. Despite a mostly positive response, their 
?rst proposal was rejected because it was too huge of a 
project for just one translator. So Arons and Chemers 
decided to bring a few more scholars into the project, 
getting Natalya Baldyga of Tufts University and 
independent scholar Sara Figal to join. After reapplying 
last fall, they were awarded the grant in August.
The Translation
With the complete group of scholars, the project really 
began to take shape. They were offered a publishing 
deal and decided to digitally publish as they went, much 
like how Lessing published his essays as he wrote them. 
In many ways, if Lessing were alive today, hed be 
blogging, Arons said. We wanted to give him that 
opportunity to blog.
Since their goal is simply to make the text accessible to 
students and scholars, Our original thought was, Lets 
just get this out there, because it doesnt exist. Even 
the ?rst essay [in the current translation] is missing 
three sentences. So someone who doesnt read German 
immediately doesnt have access to what hes really 
written, Arons said. To achieve this goal, the scholars 
will publish the translated essays on mediacommons.
org, a peer-to-peer website that allows readers to give 
feedback on the translations.
Its scary because were putting our work out there 
mostly ?nished, but not completely ?nished, and people 
will be able to see our mistakes... but at the same time, 
we thought this would allow us to make it a better work 
in the end, Arons said.
Arons and her colleagues hope that getting feedback 
as they work will only make their work better and more 
accurate. Additionally, this back-and-forth between 
translators and readers is something Arons feels that 
Lessing would appreciate. Its sort of in the spirit in his 
own way of doing stuff, she explained. He got a lot of 
feedback on his writing at the time, and he loved the 
back-and-forth. So we thought wed sort of honor him in 
that way, by being brave and putting it out there even 
though we might be embarrassed by it.
Arons three-year Hamburgische Dramaturgie 
translation project is signi?cant to both those interested 
Jennifer Coloma | Operations Manager
critiquing works. He wrote essays about and critiqued 
what he saw on stage, and he used these essays as a 
way to formulate a theory of what good theater should 
be, Arons said.
Lessings essays were published over the course of his 
two years with the Hamburg National Theatre, which 
dissolved in 1769. It closed for a number of reasons, 
including the actors dislike of Lessings public criticism 
of the theater. His essays were eventually published 
together in a book, which, according to Arons, has since 
stood as an example of how critical writing can re?ect 
on media and what media does in society.
The Researchers
Diving into this area of research is natural for Arons,  
who has researched 18th-century German theater since 
she was an undergraduate student at Yale University. 
I actually didnt start learning German until college, 
Arons said; before then, she had only read a few 
translated books and been interested in the culture. 
in translation and those interested in theater theory, a 
duality that makes the project particularly appealing. 
The work can stand for more than just its historical 
value or its value as theater theory, Arons said. It can 
also stand as an example of how scholarship works in 
the real world.
In many ways, if Lessing were alive today, hed be 
blogging. We wanted to give him that opportunity to blog.
 Wendy Arons
Associate professor of dramatic literature
Wendy Arons, associate professor of dramatic literature, is translating the text of German philosopher Gotthold 
Ephraim Lessings Hamburgische Dramaturgie, a project that has gained the School of Drama its ?rst-ever 
National Endowments for the Humanities grant.    
                  Jennifer Coloma | Operations Manager
Above: Arons and her collaborators are publishing 
their translations as they go on mediacommons.org, a 
peer-to-peer site that allows readers to offer feedback.
Right: The text of German philosopher Gotthold 
Ephraim Lessings Hamburgische Dramaturgie has 
only partially been translated into English. Arons and 
her colleagues aim to provide a full translation of the 
work to the English-speaking public.
Courtesy of mediacommons.org
Courtesy of Google Scholar

---------------------------------------------------

10art
pillbox 11.05.12
Have you ever spent too much time looking at image 
macros on the internet, or scrolling through videos 
of cats on Youtube? Many people regard these 
diversions as pointless yet amusing wastes of time, 
much like other aspects of todays digital culture.
New York-based artist Cory Arcangel, however, 
?nds something of artistic merit in American digital 
culture. Arcangel uses mostly ready-made digital 
technology in his art. In a sense, his artwork is a 
subset of pop art  taking elements from popular 
culture and giving them a twist  but its heavy 
emphasis on the digital era makes his approach 
more unique. In his work, Arcangel also uses hacked 
and obsolete pieces of technology, such as old video 
game cartridges.
Cory Arcangel: Masters, a new exhibit at the 
Carnegie Museum of Art, shows off selected pieces 
of art that Arcangel has produced over his decadelong career, including ?ve videos, a modi?ed video 
game, a modi?ed ?at screen television, a wallpaper 
installation, and a collection of archival materials. 
The exhibit, which opened on Saturday, also debuts 
a new work: Arcangels collection of catalogued 
trance and techno LPs.
Like other pieces of modern art, some elements 
of Arcangels work may come off as somewhat 
overrated. One work featured in the exhibit, 
Super Mario Clouds, simply displays the sky and 
background clouds from the game Super Mario Bros. 
 nothing else.
But the exhibit still has its merits. Few people in 
modern art address the values and concerns of the 
digital age, despite its growing in?uence on our 
culture and society. Above all, Arcangels work is a 
commentary on American culture in the digital era. 
His pieces highlight how most of the technology 
we use quickly becomes obsolete in our consumer 
culture; every year there is a newer, fancier iPhone 
or tablet that quickly becomes replaceable.
Many of the works in the exhibit focus on the 
transient and pointless nature of technology. The 
work Untitled Translation Exercise is basically 
a showing of the 1993 American ?lm Dazed and 
Confused, but with the script dubbed by an 
outsourced Indian ?rm. The odd juxtaposition 
of the depiction of American culture with the 
stilted, wooden voices of the foreign ?rm create 
an interesting commentary on the outsourcing of 
American labor and the effects of globalization on 
American culture. Moreover, its incredibly funny to 
watch.
In an interview posted on the Carnegie Museum of 
Art website, exhibit curator Tina Kukielski describes 
Arcangel and his work: Ive always thought of 
Cory as a cultural purveyor. He is an artist who 
understands the mechanisms and systems of 
technology and the internet and is able to intervene 
in the slightest way in the sense that he upsets the 
rhythms or patterns of culture just enough to expose 
their very being.
Xiyu Wang | Junior Staffwriter
Exhibit examines digital culture
Carnegie Museum of Art features Cory Arcangels works
Cory Arcangels exhibit provides uncommon artistic commentary on our modern digital age.
Jennifer Coloma | Operations Manager
Catherine Spence | Staffwriter
Did you know?
100years ago
Nov. 21, 1912
A Carnegie Tech alumnus is slated 
to send an article from Haiti to The 
Tartan for publishing. The Tartan urges 
students to follow his example by 
submitting articles after graduation 
about traveling, technology, or any 
other particularly interesting news from 
the lives of graduates after they leave 
Carnegie Tech.
50years ago
Nov. 14, 1962
A series of editorial pieces about the 
schools Alma Mater causes much 
debate among students. Initially, 
changing the Alma Mater was 
suggested to build more school spirit. 
Others argue that changing the Alma 
Mater will just confuse and dishearten 
the few students who actually know 
the words to the song.
25years ago
Nov. 3, 1987
A Quality of Life report about 
Carnegie Mellon shows that students 
are extremely academically focused 
within majors, but disengaged from 
the overall campus community. 
Infographics display student discontent 
with the advertisement of events and 
lack of places to socialize on campus.
10years ago
Nov. 4, 2002
In honor of Gay Pride Month, many 
students share the struggle of coming 
out to their parents. Parental responses 
like Id love you even if you were 
a Republican are humorous on 
the surface, but many students are 
disappointed by the lack of caring they 
felt their parents offered when they 
found the courage to come out.
5years ago
Nov. 5, 2007
The Scottish terrier is set to make its 
official debut as the Carnegie Mellon 
mascot. The mascot first appeared 
unofficially in the mid-1930s, and the 
university finally decided to adopt it 
and release a graphic for university 
apparel. Students also anticipate the 
introduction of a Scottie dog at 
games and events.
1year ago
Oct. 31. 2011
A group of four teams unveils new 
lighting designs for the Randy Pausch 
Memorial Bridge in honor of Cilidh 
weekend. The designs were created 
in a new course about interactive 
expression that brought together 
professors from the School of Drama 
and the School of Computer Science.

---------------------------------------------------

puzzles
pillbox 11.05.1211
Solutions from Oct. 29, 2012
CrosswordMedium DifficultyEasy Difficulty
Jigsaw Sudoku Puzzle: Very Hard Difficulty Sudoku Puzzle: Easy Difficulty
Sudoku courtesy of www.opensky.ca/~jdhildeb/software/
sudokugen/
Jigsaw Sudoku courtesy of www.krazydad.com/jigsawsudoku
In addition to normal sudoku rules, each jigsaw shape must 
also contain numbers 1 to 9. 

---------------------------------------------------

12comics 
pillbox 11.05.12
Stick Cats #9 by Nick Marino & Katie Henderson
  Online at www.nickmarino.netnickmarino@gmail.com
The Friendly Bird by Reza Farazmand
poorlydrawnlines@gmail.com
doghousediaries@gmail.com
Work Time, Play Time, Sleep Time by Doghouse Diaries

---------------------------------------------------

comics
pillbox 11.05.1213
PhD Comics by Jorge Cham
jorge@phdcomics.com
Hark, a Vagrant by Kate Beaton
kathrynmoira@gmail.com
on
Like
Like us on Facebook and be 
entered to win a Finals Survival 
Prize pack! Once we reach 600 
Likes, we will have a drawing 
to give away a gift basket filled 
with everything you need to get 
through the happiest time of the 
year.

---------------------------------------------------

14horoscopes
pillbox 11.05.12
 1. Annapolis inst.
 2. Celestial body
 3. Romain de Tirtoff, familiarly
 4. Horse color
 5. Showy
 6. Shoshone language member
 7. Smoke deposit
 8. Berts buddy
 9. Breaks up
 10. Hoi ______
 11. Remove dirt with a broom
 12. Have a feeling about
 13. General ____ chicken
 21. Pampering place
 23. Archer of myth
 25. Kind of question
 27. Boxer Max
 28. ____ breve
 29. Family
 30. Swindle
 34. Part of UNLV
 35. The covers of this book are too far 
_____  Bierce
 36. Too
 37. Golda of Israel
 38. Pessimists word
 40. Least lengthy
 41. Alley ___
 43. Dec. holiday
 44. Ornamental shoulder piece
 45. Puts up
 47. Hole-boring tool
 48. Takes on
 49. Accumulate
 50. Conger catcher
 52. OPEC units
 53. Baptism, e.g.
 55. Linebacker Junior
 56. Actress Harper
 57. O.T. book
 58. X-ray units
 61. Invite
1. Software buyers
6. Second hand, took advantage of
10. Hey, over here!
14. Razor sharpener
15. Actress Spelling
16. Is indebted
17. Birth-related
18. Seemingly forever
19. Letterman rival
20. Places of contest
22. Weariless
24. Bond, for one
26. The continent
27. Devotees to the god of revelry
31. Luau chow
32. Metallic mixture
33. Blind parts
36. One time Jeep mfr.
39. Brio
40. Ginger cookies
41. Olive genus
42. Hightailed it
43. Language with click consonants
44. Red fluorescent dye
45. Funnyman Philips
46. Harmonious relation
48. Capital of Zimbabwe
51. Defunct airline
52. A two-month period
54. Gloss
59. Bric-a-____
60. East of Eden director Kazan
62. TV host Gibbons
63. For fear that
64. Tennis units
65. Alleviated
66. Flat sound
67. Tough trip
68. Elephant parts
ACROSSDOWN
Horoscopes
aries
march 21april 19
Its gonna be okay. Just look under your bed.
taurus
april 20may 20
Sometimes you get to complain, and sometimes you have 
to listen to others complain. Karma will shine on you in the 
end.
gemini
may 21june 21
Dont be so quick to judge or write off the person you have 
been ignoring this semester. They just might surprise you in 
the next few weeks.
cancer
june 22july 22
They say not to read into things too much, but for you, that 
seemingly innocent text you received from a friend means 
more than you think.
leo
july 23aug. 22 
Its nice to see that the world is being nice to you, but are 
you being nice to the world? Dont brush this seemingly silly 
question aside and miss the answer that will greatly impact 
your future.
virgo
aug. 23sept. 22
No wonder you have so many more friends in the winter 
than in the summer. You are such a warm, caring person 
that people cant resist flocking to you.
libra
sept. 23oct. 22
Rules were made to be broken, but sometimes you take 
this liberty a bit too far. You may be able to get away with it, 
but the real question is whether or not you should.
scorpio
oct. 23nov. 21
Stop judging those who havent gotten job offers yet or who 
are still searching for things to do after college. Instead, 
take a long hard look at yourself and pray that when you 
leave school, youll be doing something that you love.
sagittarius
nov. 22dec. 21
Youre, youre late 
For a very important date 
No time to run, no time to hide
You... wait, you have a date?
capricorn
dec. 22jan. 19
Have a think, it will come to you.
aquarius
jan. 20feb. 18
You get to decide how you feel. Dont reject those who try 
to help you, but make up your own mind.
pisces
feb. 19march 20
You deserve a pick-me-up for the rough few weeks you 
have been having. Go to the following video and feel better: 
http://youtu.be/oivWKzaVOO4.
Nicole Hamilton | Comics Editor
Crossword courtesy of BestCrosswords.com

---------------------------------------------------

calendar
pillbox 11.05.1215
MONDAY11.5.12
Bassnectar. Stage AE. 6:30 p.m.
Dubstep DJ Bassnectar will play a high-energy set with 
openers Gramatik and Gladkill.
A Very Potter Musical. Doherty Hall 2122. 7 p.m.
Join AB readme for a satire movie night screening of A 
Very Potter Musical, a musical parody of the Harry Potter 
series starring Glee actor Darren Criss.
TUESDAY11.6.12
Passion Pit. Stage AE. 7 p.m.
Indie pop group Passion Pit will perform with Youngblood 
Hawke.
Moyra Davey lecture. McConomy Auditorium. 5 p.m.
Artist and writer Moyra Davey will give a lecture as part of 
the 2012 School of Art Lecture Series. Daveys work has 
mostly been focused on photography.
WEDNESDAY11.7.12
Nathan Angelo. Club Cafe (56 South 12th St.). 8 p.m.
Acoustic singer-songwriter Nathan Angelo will perform at 
Club Cafe.
THURSDAY11.8.12
You Wont. The Underground. 7:30 p.m.
AB Underground presents a concert by Massachusettsbased folk rock band You Wont.
Chicago. Heinz Hall. 7:30 p.m.
Chicago tells the story of Roxie Hart, a nightclub dancer 
who murders her lover after he threatens to leave her, and 
her desperate attempt to escape conviction. The show 
will run through Sunday. Tickets are available at 
trustarts.org.
ZZ Ward. Hard Rock Cafe (230 West Station Square Dr.). 
8:30 p.m.
Oregon-based female singer-songwriter ZZ Ward will 
perform at the Hard Rock Cafe.
FRIDAY11.9.12
Lance Out Loud book signing and reception.
The Andy Warhol Museum. 7 p.m.
Pat Loud, mother of writer and performer Lance Loud, 
and Christopher Makos, authors of Lance Out Loud, will 
host a discussion on Loud  who came out as gay in 
1973 on the reality television show An American Family 
 and Andy Warhol. There will also be a screening of the 
episode of An American Family in which Loud came out.
WRCT: A Fall Dance Party. Shadow Lounge. 9 p.m.
Carnegie Mellon campus radio station WRCT is hosting 
its annual fall dance party this Friday at the Shadow 
Lounge. The event is 18+ and tickets are $5 at the door.
SATURDAY11.10.12
Sleigh Bells. Wiegand Gymnasium. 8 p.m.
AB Concerts presents its annual fall concert, this year 
featuring noise pop duo Sleigh Bells. Hip-hop producer 
AraabMuzik will open for the duo. Tickets are free for 
Carnegie Mellon students and $10 for nonstudents. 
Tickets are available at the University Center Information 
Desk.
Yellow Ostrich. brillobox. 10 p.m.
Indie rock band Yellow Ostrich will perform with Sun Ray 
and Shining Light. The event is 21+.
ONGOING
Feminist and...The Mattress Factory. Through May 26.
This exhibit features works by six female artists from 
around the world, aiming to show that feminism is 
a multivocal, multi generational, and multicultural 
movement, not a single-issue set of political beliefs. 
White Cube, Green Maze. Carnegie Museum of Art. 
Through Jan. 13.
The exhibit includes models and drawings by architects 
and landscape architects who have worked on 
collaborative projects, focusing on six sites from around 
the world.
Compiled by Allison Cosby | Staffwriter
Want your event here?
Email calendar@thetartan.org.
PHOTO BY LEN PRINCEFOR TICKETS, CALL 412.392.4819 OR VISIT PITTSBURGHSYMPHONY.ORG/CHICAGO
ONLY 6 SHOWS!  NOVEMBER 8 THRU 11
$20 STUDENT  TICKETS
USE PROMO CODE 35353 TO PURCHASE*
*Not valid on previously purchased tickets or in conjunction with any other offer. Certain restrictions apply. Must use promo code 35353 when ordering to receive discount.

---------------------------------------------------

16gallery
pillbox 11.05.12
Jonathan Carreon | Photo Editor
Students participating in Relay for Life walked the perimeter of Rangos Hall from 6 p.m. 
Saturday evening to 6 a.m. Sunday morning in honor of cancer victims. Luminaria honoring 
students loved ones lined the track, while participating organizations sold baked goods and 
student groups, including Mortar Board and service fraternity Alpha Phi Omega, performed 
to motivate the participants.
relay for life.
