FORUMSPORTSPILLBOX
Carnegie Mellons student newspaper since 1906
Bhangra in the Burgh offers cultural glimpse  B9Swimming and diving sweep quad meet  A8People should ?nd their own higher power  A4
thetartan.org
@thetartan
November 19, 2012
Volume 107, Issue 12
Slate bridges freedom struggles across nations
Students weigh in on CulinArt nutritional facts
Lecture lays outelectionlessons
ALVIN MATHEW
Junior Staffwriter
When you order a hamburger from City Grill, pizza 
from Skibo Caf, or pasta from 
The Exchange, do you know 
whats in your food? The Tartan Food Tracker, a project 
currently in beta version, aims 
to help you ?nd out.
Although work on Tartan 
Food Tracker is currently on 
hold, the beta version is available online. It lists nutritional 
information for food on campus. Next to each dish, the 
nutritional value is given in a 
variety of different formats, 
including per bowl, per order, and per cup.
Some students think the 
website, as it currently stands, 
is unclear. Kashish Mittal, a 
?rst-year electrical and computer engineering and computer science double major, 
posed some questions about 
the food: What consists of a 
meal? How much is considered a bowl or an order?
CulinArt does not combine 
nutritional information for 
foods that go into the same 
carton. So, for instance, the 
nutritional information for 
an order of chicken tikka masala at Taste of India does not 
include the naan or rice that 
generally accompanies the 
meal.
Sean Minahan, executive 
chef with CulinArt, explained 
why CulinArt lists food the 
way it does. Every dish is not 
going to be the same, he said. 
If youre dining on campus, 
like at Pasta Villaggio, where 
the food is rich, were not 
going to limit what you can 
and cant have, and let you 
make that decision on whats 
best for you.
On food containers bought 
in a grocery store, nutritional 
information is listed in servings, but in parentheses there 
is a measurement of weight 
that explains just how much 
counts as one serving. Although Tartan Food Tracker does not list a servings 
weight, Minahan said CulinArt ensures servings are properly and evenly portioned.
Im not sure what it is, but 
a cup is by lique?ed volume, 
liquid weighted ounces, Minahan said. The analysis we 
provided for Tartan Tracker 
was based on portion size of 
the protein or whatever food 
it is, and we measured it in 
terms of the caloric volume. 
Measurements for an order 
will be different for different locations. Pasta Villaggio, 
Spinning Salads, all those are 
given measurements. With 
regards to protein, we preportion in bags. We also have 
a cutting team with a butcher 
shop that portion meat for 
grilling.
Paula Martin, a registered 
dietitian with University 
Health Services, said, [Tartan] Food Tracker is currently 
JACKSON LANE
Senior Staffwriter
Despite the high costs of a 
U.S. education, more international students are enrolling 
at North American 
colleges. 
According to a recent article 
in the U.S. News & World Report, the number of international students enrolling in 
the 201213 school year increased 5.7 percent over 
the 201112 enrollment, 
with the majority of international students coming from 
Asia.
Carnegie Mellon is no 
stranger to 
international  
 
 
 
 
 
students. More than 20 percent of its student body is 
from another country, and the 
university has a dedicated Department of International Education to assist with ?nancial 
aid, English skills, and career 
options after graduation.
Senior business administration major Parikshit Mistry 
from India said that he decided to travel overseas for his 
education for the career 
prospects. Just saying 
that you got a degree 
from an American college 
opens up so many job opportunities back home 
in India, Mistry said. 
I want to work in the 
United States when I 
graduate, but I might 
want to return to India later.
Mistry said his 
biggest challenge 
adapting to a U.S. 
college experience 
was learning to work 
under a much more 
hands-off system of 
teaching.
In India, the teachers really prod you to do 
well, and theyll let you know 
if you arent doing well.... The 
professors here dont really do 
that, and its more up to the 
students to make sure they 
learn the material, he said. It 
took some time getting used 
to, especially during my freshmen courses.
While Mistry said that he is 
fortunate to come from a family that can pay out of pocket 
for his education overseas, 
not all international students 
have this luxury. So rather 
than pay out of pocket, sophomore electrical and computer 
engineering major Chin Yang 
from Singapore is instead participating in a scholarship program offered by his government. [The government] is 
paying for my education and 
travel, Yang said.
In exchange for the scholarship, the government requires a high level of academic 
performance from him. I have 
to keep my GPA above a 3.75... 
and my scholarship requires 
that I complete a masters degree in computer science in 
four years. It means I need to 
graduate in three [years], 
Yang said. I also have a sixyear bond. After I graduate, I 
need to work for [the government] for six years.
Like Mistry, Yang has not 
had much of a problem adapting to American culture. Im 
sure there are a lot of cultural 
differences, but I havent really noticed many of them, 
BRENT HEARD
Assistant News Editor
Hoover Institute fellow 
and Stanford political science professor Morris Fiorina used statistics last Tuesday to explain the growing 
partisanship in American 
politics. Roughly 80 people 
attended the lecture, which 
was held in Margaret Morrison.
Titled The Road to (and 
from) the 2012 Elections, 
the presentation made substantial use of graphs and 
charts.
The lecture covered 
Americas background with 
respect to political divides, 
and the changes in partisanship in recent years. 
Despite the events title, 
Fiorina said, Theres not 
much to say, since not much 
changed, and that a lot of 
the data was not yet available for analysis about the 
recent election.
Fiorina gave a brief outline of which political party 
possessed the House of 
Representatives, the Senate, and the presidency 
since the year 2000, when 
the Republicans won the 
political triple crown: the 
House, Senate, and the 
presidency.
After 2006, when the 
Democrats ended the generation of the Republican 
majority, they hoped that 
they would be able to solidify political wins as the Republicans once had. James 
Carville published a book in 
2009 titled, 40 More Years: 
How the Democrats Will Rule 
the Next Generation. Fiorina 
joked about the accuracy 
of these predictions, saying, If you want this book, 
Amazon will give it to you 
for 60 percent off.
He explained that we 
are now in what political 
scientists call the era of divided government. 
In 26 of the past 32 
years, the U.S. has had a 
divided government determined by at least one party 
possessing the House, Senate, or presidency.
In the past six years 
weve had four elections, 
each with different patterns 
of instructional control. 
This is extreme electoral instability, Fiorina said. 
He explained that this 
was the second worst period of electoral instability 
in American history.
Fiorina called the  worst 
time in American history 
the Period of No Decision, 
which lasted between the 
1870s and 1890s.
Fiorina later revealed 
the parallels between society during that time and 
our current situation. Both 
periods experienced globalization, economic transformation, internal population 
movement, mass immigration, and rising economic 
inequality.
He also said, That era, 
like ours, was an era of 
party sorting. Party sorting and polarization occur 
when the more extreme 
ends of a political spectrum 
are adopted by their respective parties.
Democrats are now a 
de?nite liberal party, the 
Republicans are now a de?-
nite conservative party, 
Jonathan Carreon/Photo Editor
Nico Slate addressed colored cosmopolitanism by connecting the civil rights movement in the U.S. to the freedom struggle of Indians under British 
Imperialism. After his lecture, Slate responded to comments and questions from an audience comprised of students and members of the Carnegie 
Mellon community. 
NOL UM
Assistant News Editor
Members of the Carnegie 
Mellon community engaged in 
discussion in Steinberg Auditorium last Friday during Nico 
Slates lecture on the connection between the freedom 
struggle of South Asians and 
African-Americans.
Slate, an assistant professor of history, referenced the 
research he conducted for his 
book Colored Cosmopolitanism: The Shared Struggle for 
Freedom in the United States 
and India to discuss how to 
create collaboration between 
peoples of color.
Theres hope and optimism, but theres also misunderstanding and misinterpretation. Thats what makes this 
history so rich, Slate said.
Addressing what he called 
colored cosmopolitanism as 
something strangely foreign, 
but strangely familiar, he 
said, In many ways, a world 
in which whites controlled 
things across the globe has 
tumbled and fell, but in many 
ways it hasnt.
Slate spoke of the work of 
activists, such as Kamaladevi 
Chattopadhyay and Pauli 
Murray, in bridging the African American ?ght for civil 
rights with the Indian freedom struggle.
He utilized the Indian term 
satyagraha, which means 
holding ?rmly to the truth, 
to refer to Murrays civil disobedience and active efforts 
in the civil rights cause. 
Slate said that as a young 
student, Murray compared the 
advantages and disadvantages 
of ?ghting for freedom as an 
African-American to those of a 
South Asian.
The ?rst major difference 
between the black freedom 
struggle and the Indian freedom struggle, he said, is the 
fact that in India, Indians were 
the majority and in America, 
Far from home: International education on rise
See INTERNATIONAL, A3
See POLITICS, A3See FOOD, A3
See SLATE, A3 
Photo illustration by Adelaide Cole/Art Editor

---------------------------------------------------

A2  thetartan.org/news The Tartan  November 19, 2012
Gian Fulgoni
Monday at 12:15 p.m. 
Hamburg Hall 1000
Gian Fulgoni, the cofounder and executive 
chairman of comScore, will 
deliver a lecture titled Lessons Learned about Digital 
Advertising. ComScore is an 
internet-analytics company 
that provides research to 
companies on how to maximize their advertising investments.
Prior to founding comScore, Fulgoni was the president and CEO of Information 
Resources, Inc. Fulgoni was 
named Illinois Entrepreneur 
of the Year twice, in 1991 and 
2004. He has been inducted 
into the Chicago Entrepreneurship Hall of Fame. He 
has a masters degree in marketing from the University of 
Lancaster in England.
Walter Howard Smith Jr.
Tuesday at noon 
University of Pittsburgh 
School of Social Work 
Conference Center 
(Cathedral of Learning 2017)
Walter Howard Smith Jr., 
the former executive director of Family Resources, will 
deliver a lecture titled Child 
Abuse in Family Emotional 
Process. 
Smith has a Ph.D. in counseling from the University of 
Pittsburgh and maintains a 
private practice in psychology. His lecture is part of 
Pitts School of Social Work 
Speaker Series.
Gabriel Lopez-Berestein
Tuesday at noon 
Salk Hall 456 
University of Pittsburgh
Research pharmacist Gabriel Lopez-Berestein will 
discuss the use of nanoparticles in cancer treatment in a 
talk at the University of Pittsburgh. 
Lopez-Berestein is a member of the University of Texas 
at Houstons MD Anderson 
Cancer Center, where he focuses on the use of nanoparticulate carriers, cell differentiation, and apoptosis 
signaling in the treatment of 
cancer.
Patricia M. DeMarco
Tuesday at 1:30 p.m. 
Gates Hillman Complex 
6115
Patricia DeMarco, the 
director of Chatham Universitys Rachel Carson Institute, 
will give a talk titled Silent 
Spring at 50: An Environmental Ethic for the 21st Century. DeMarco will discuss the 
lessons that Rachel Carsons 
book Silent Spring teaches 
todays environmental world.
DeMarco received her 
Ph.D. in biology from the 
University of Pittsburgh.
She served as the executive 
director of the Power Facilities Evaluation Council for 
the state of Connecticut, and 
advised the governor of Connecticut on various environmental issues while acting as 
a liaison for the Connecticut 
Energy Advisory Board.
In 1998, she moved to 
Alaska and served as president of the Anchorage Economic Development Corporation. 
While in Alaska, she also 
served as a commissioner 
for the Regulatory Commission of Alaska. From 2002 to 
2005, she was the associate 
dean for the College of Business and Public Policy at the 
University of Alaska Anchorage.
Compiled by
MADELYN GLYMOUR
Corrections & Clari?cations
If you would like to submit a correction or clari?cation, please email The Tartan at news@thetartan.org or 
editor@thetartan.org with your inquiry, as well as the 
date of the issue and the name of the article. We will 
print the correction or clari?cation in the next print issue and publish it online.
Lecture Preview
Trans-Q Television, an 
online video variety show 
sponsored by the School of 
Art, and the Center for Arts 
in Society, is set to premiere 
Friday.
The premiere, which will 
take place at 6119 Penn Avenue, will include a dance 
party attended by members 
of Pittsburghs queer arts and 
music community. Doors will 
open at 8:30 p.m., and the 
episode screening is set to begin at 9 p.m. The free event is 
open to people over 18 years 
old.
Trans-Q is described in 
a university press release 
by executive producer and 
Carnegie Mellon art professor Suzie Silver as a Dadaist 
variety show for the 21st century, or a truly warped fusion 
of Lawrence Welk, Sonny and 
Cher, Andy Warhols TV, Ernie Kovacs, Flip Wilson, Carol 
Burnett and Wigstock.
Silver also said Trans-Q 
Televisions goal is to offer a 
series that highlights queer 
and transgender issues and 
themes. According to a university press release, the ?rst 
episode is to have an appearance from drag queen Alaska 
Thunderfuck as well as highlights from hip-hop producer 
Le1fs recent performance at 
the VIA Festival, an all-transgender/drag soap opera, and 
a student fashion show in 
artist Scott Andrews MAKESHOP residency at the Childrens Museum of Pittsburgh.
Andrew, a Carnegie Mellon masters student in art, 
is producing the show, which 
will launch its ?rst six-episode season in January.
Luc Berger, professor 
emeritus of physics, has been 
announced as a winner of the 
2013 Oliver E. Buckley Condensed Matter Prize by the 
American Physical Society.
The Oliver E. Buckley 
prize was established by Bell 
Labs and ?rst endowed in 
1952. The prize is awarded 
for an important contribution to the advancement of 
knowledge in condensedmatter physics.
Berger co-won the prize 
with John Slonczewski, an 
IBM research staff emeritus. Their theory was that a 
spin-polarized current can 
in?uence the relative orientation of the magnetic moment, which will cause the 
orientation of the moments 
to switch. This can be used to 
?ip active elements in magnetic random access memory.
This ?ipping could make 
magnetic random access 
memory devices possible. 
These devices would be able 
to store greater amounts of 
data that may be accessed at 
faster speeds while consuming less battery power.
Fred Gilman, dean of the 
Mellon College of Science, 
said in a university press release, The Buckley Prize is 
one of the most prestigious 
prizes awarded in the ?eld of 
physics, and Luc is richly deserving of this honor.
 Berger and Slonczewski 
will receive the award in 
March at an American Physical Society meeting in Baltimore.
 Compiled by
BRENT HEARD
CAMPUS NEWS IN BRIEF
School of Art unveils new queer-themed program
Physics professor awarded  the Condensed Matter Prize
WEATHER
TUESDAY
High / Low
58 / 37
WEDNESDAY
High / Low
58 / 40
THURSDAY
High / Low
58 / 40
FRIDAY
High / Low
54 / 44
SATURDAY
High / Low
53 / 39
Theft
Nov. 12, 2012
University Police were 
summoned to the A200 corridor of Hamburg Hall to take a 
theft report. A Carnegie Mellon faculty member reported 
that, over the weekend, two 
sets of keys and her personal 
laptop were stolen. One of the 
sets of keys stolen was used 
to gain access to her of?ce in 
the A200 corridor. University 
Police continue to investigate 
this incident.
Disorderly Conduct
Nov. 13, 2012
A Carnegie Mellon security 
of?cer on foot patrol of the 
Hill dorms noticed two individuals smoking marijuana 
outside of Welch House. The 
security of?cer summoned 
University Police, who con?scated the contraband and 
cited the individuals for disorderly conduct.
Theft
Nov. 14, 2012
University Police were contacted in regards to a stolen 
laptop. The reporting person 
stated that his Dell laptop was 
stolen from the A100 corridor of Hamburg Hall between 
7:30 p.m. and 8 p.m. The 
laptop was left unattended. 
The owner of the laptop stated that he saw a suspicious, 
white college-age male wearing a black-hooded sweatshirt 
and ball cap in the area at the 
time of the theft. This investigation is ongoing.
Underage Drinking
Nov. 15, 2012
A Carnegie Mellon security of?cer conducting a foot 
patrol noticed two intoxicated 
students on Fifth Avenue. University Police were summoned 
to the scene. They were identi?ed as University of Pittsburgh 
students and were escorted 
home. One student will be 
cited for underage drinking.
Thefts
Nov. 15, 2012
University Police were 
summoned to Hunt Library 
to take a theft report. The reporting person stated that between 8 p.m. and 8:20 p.m., 
her Macbook Pro laptop was 
stolen from the third ?oor of 
Hunt Library. The laptop was 
left unattended while the 
owner went to the restroom. 
A second laptop was reported 
stolen immediately following 
this incident. This laptop was 
taken from the second-?oor 
study area between 8:15 p.m. 
and 8:25 p.m. The laptop was 
also left unattended while the 
owner went to the restroom.
Theft
Nov. 16, 2012
A Carnegie Mellon student 
contacted University Police in 
regards to her stolen bicycle. 
The reporting persons white 
mountain bike was stolen 
between the hours of 11:20 
p.m. last Thursday and 8:50 
a.m. the following morning. 
The bike was left unsecured in 
front of Webster Hall.
Campus Crime & Incident Reports
Jonathan Carreon/Photo Editor
Humorist David Rees presents his single-blade manual pencil sharpeners as part of his presentation in McConomy Auditorium last Monday. Known 
for his controversial comic Get Your War On, Rees has also written a book on how to manually sharped pencils. He runs a pencil-sharpening company, to which people can mail in their pencils to be sharpened. 
Statistically Speaking
Hostess  the company behind such snacks as 
Twinkies, Ho Hos, Sno Balls, and Wonderbread  declared bankruptcy last Friday. Hostess had ?nancial dif?culties, which were then exacerbated by labor disputes 
with unions over pay. But some of Hostess products may 
return after these brands are brought up for auction. Here 
are some facts about the company and its products:
150
The number of calories in a single Twinkie.
18,500 
The number of workers being laid off as a result of the 
bankruptcy.
500 million
The number of Twinkies produced per year.
33
The number of bakeries operated 
by Hostess in the U.S.
Compiled by 
BRENT HEARD
Sources: news.yahoo.com,  
hostessbrands.com, and  
caloriecount.about.com
Source: www.accuweather.com
FEATURE PHOTO
David Rees discusses comics, pencils

---------------------------------------------------

November 19, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/news  A3
Fiorina said. He explained the 
fact that each party is moving 
toward their further extreme 
wings.
Using more ?gures, this 
time on political stances of 
congressmen, Fiorina claimed 
that the most conservative 
Democrat is now often to the 
left of the most liberal Republican. He showed that 
this was not necessarily true 
throughout the previous eras 
of American history.
Part of this polarization, 
Fiorina revealed, is due to the 
increasing role and in?uence 
of activists in politics.
The tiny hardcore [element] of each party gives us 
the choices we face, he said, 
illustrating this point by showing that really only a small 
percentage of total eligible 
voters turned out at primaries where former Pennsylvania Senator Rick Santorum, 
a more extreme Republican 
presidential candidate, won.
However, Fiorina was careful to establish that this growing partisanship was not a direct result from the American 
peoples views: Americans 
are uninformed, and for the 
most part confused and ambivalent.
Fiorina contrasted viewing ?gures for political debates and pundit programs 
with those of American Idol 
and other popular television 
shows, each separated by at 
least 15 percent.
Fiorina emphasized that 
he believes the American public is nonpartisan. In general 
the American electorship is 
extreme, theyre pragmatic, 
he said, proceeding to show a 
graph illustrating no real increase in partisanship in the 
American public.
The presentation brie?y 
addressed other issues such 
as campaign ?nancing, the 
future of the Republican party 
and its ideologies, and a lack 
of party compromising. After 
his lecture, Fiorina solicited 
questions from the audience, 
often tying them in to reinforce his points.
Fiorina ended by emphasizing, Im an optimist, but, 
in a 40-year career Ive never 
been more concerned about 
what the future might hold 
than now.
Stanley Krasner, a sophomore economics and mathematics double major, said, 
The use of convincing statistics to discuss political opinions is a not-new, but growing, trend. Coming from a 
quantitative background, I 
see why people like data, even 
though they may not be able 
to interpret all of it. His data 
helped analyzing the past, but 
isnt very effective at predicting the future.
Tonya Sedgwick, a sophomore decision science major, 
said, I thought it was very interesting. The graphical comparison of history was helpful 
in many parts.... It was a very 
good analysis of something, 
but not a lot of conclusion on 
where to go.
Fiorina, who received his 
bachelors degree from Allegheny College and his masters and doctorate degrees 
from the University of Rochester, referenced his Pittsburgh 
background at the beginning 
of his talk. 
Thank all of yinz for coming out, he announced, referencing the popular Pittsburgh 
slang.
The lecture was presented 
as a Center for International 
Relations and Politics event, 
and was sponsored by the 
Quantitative Social Science 
Scholars program.
Yang said. I have an accent, 
so sometimes I have to repeat 
myself when talking to new 
people, but people who get 
to know me can understand 
me.
According to Yang, the Singaporean students on campus 
are a particularly close-knit 
group.
We all know each other 
because its such a small community, and most of us are 
under the same scholarship 
program, he said. 
Yang said that he met up 
with his Singaporean friends 
almost every day during his 
?rst year. 
Theres also the Singaporean Student Association on 
campus.... Most of us come to 
the meetings and events, he 
said.
However, Yang said that 
Singaporeans never become 
very invested in cultural 
events and activities because 
of the level of academic performance they are expected 
to achieve.
Carnegie Mellon also hosts 
several foreign exchange 
students, including junior 
computer science major Syed 
Moosavi from Carnegie Mellons Qatar campus. 
Its a semester-long program where instead of taking 
courses at Qatar, we take our 
courses in Pittsburgh, said 
Moosavi, who is originally 
from India. The computer 
science department sends two 
to three students every year to 
Pittsburgh.
Moosavis biggest challenges adapting to the U.S. 
involved just getting around 
the city. Ive had a problem 
de?nitely understanding how 
things work here; the bus system, groceries, buying a ticket, Moosavi said. 
[In Qatar], everything 
is centrally located in a big 
shopping complex, he added.
However, Moosavi made a 
point of arriving in Pittsburgh 
during the summer so he 
could ?gure out these logistical issues before the semester 
started, and since then, he 
said he hasnt run into any 
problems. 
I have an accent, but people can understand me.... Its 
been easy for me to meet new 
people, and everyone is nice, 
he said.
blacks were the minority. 
Murray used this fact to 
demonstrate that not all tactics used in India can be directly implemented on the 
plight of African-Americans.
Moving on to describe an                         
example, Slate addressed the 
tremendous amount of poverty in India due to class disparities as a result of the caste 
system.
Slate cited the example of 
a point of realization for Martin Luther King Jr. on a visit to 
India. 
The principal of the 
school introduced MLK as an 
untouchable of the United 
States. Although King was at 
?rst insulted, he realized that 
his treatment in the States 
meant he was, in a sense, an 
untouchable. Then King went 
on to say, I am an untouchable, and all of my people are 
untouchables. 
Slate pointed out that in 
this way, King was connecting caste oppression in India 
to the oppression of AfricanAmericans.
Slate said, That conception of colored solidarity is 
still alive. Many young South 
Asians feel a sense of solidarity with African-American 
struggles, which has grown 
even stronger after 9/11, 
when racial pro?ling has targeted people of color.
Slate said that President 
Barack Obama carried a large 
number of minority communities in the election. For 
example, 75 percent of the 
South Asian and Indian communities voted for Obama.
Most Indians were happy 
that Obama was reelected, 
but not for all the right reasons. I think that they are 
mainly focused on Obamas 
foreign policy to India, which, 
like President [George W.] 
Bushs policy, has been warm 
and friendly, Slate said.
I think that most of the 
people in power in India think 
that Obama can inspire societal change, and is something 
I wish is more present, he 
continued.
Students who attended the 
lecture had positive things to 
say.
Im in his global histories 
class, and he really emphasized the transnational aspect 
of this movement, which I 
found fascinating. I liked that 
he mentioned that we can create this solidarity and learn 
from it. We can learn from 
history and act on it today, 
said Josh Levitson, a fourthyear piano performance and 
professional writing double 
major.
I really liked the fact that 
he covered so much of the 
struggle for civil rights of different cultures, whether that 
be in America or India, said 
Theophilus Onime, a ?rstyear information systems major. 
The freedom struggle is 
not just con?ned to one place, 
like we think it is, he added.
Slates lecture was part of 
the Center for African-American Urban Studies and the 
Economy 201213 speaker 
series. 
The talk was also held in 
collaboration with The Senator John Heinz History Center Exhibit, From Slavery to 
Freedom.
on hold, and its not a ?nished 
product and is being tested. 
Right now, we have launched 
food icons, and some vendors 
are putting them on vendor 
boards and some are not. You 
can ?nd nutritional information using the food icons described on the Housing and 
Dining site.
The icons include Whole 
Grain, Healthful Choice, 
Heart Smart, Vegetarian, 
and Vegan, and give general information about food on 
menus. Not all campus dining locations, however, use 
the icons.
Mittal also posed another concern: Why cant 
each dining location clarify 
which foods are vegetarian 
or not, and give a description of each? Someone not 
from here surely would be 
confused with some options 
here. 
While some places, like 
the Carnegie Mellon Caf, 
list what is in different foods, 
other places like Skibo Caf 
and Schatz Dining Room do 
not.
Minahan said CulinArt 
could do better on that front. 
We do have identi?er 
cards for many places, 
but at places like Schatz, 
there may not be total 
clarity, and sometimes we 
do miss it, Minahan said.  
Its something that were 
working on every day.
Other students have concerns about the availability 
of food. On weekends, when 
dining locations in the University Center are closed, 
some feel that food and drink 
options are limited. 
We have to spend a good 
amount of money on food 
that probably isnt the healthiest. Besides water, there are 
no healthy options to drink, 
said Joetsaroop Bagga, a ?rstyear biomedical engineering 
and chemical engineering 
double major.
Martin refutes this claim. 
Our locations are all pretty 
unique, and we have a system 
in place in which access to 
food is broad, she said. Ive 
been here for seven years, 
and Im quite pleased with 
the food offerings. Weve 
looked at health standards 
and offerings, so we look at 
access, variety, food safety 
concerns. There are healthy 
options at dining locations, 
other than sweet or carbonated drinks: The Carnegie 
Mellon Caf, for instance, offers milk, orange juice, and 
bottled water.
If students have concerns, 
Minahan said there is a dining service group that acts 
together on a monthly basis, 
with vendors and groups, 
so if people have concerns, 
thats a great place. There 
are also chefs and managers 
with our vending locations, 
so if a student has a concern, 
they should go to them.
INTERNATIONAL, from A1
POLITICS, from A1
SLATE, from A1
FOOD, from A1
CulinArt to work on food option labels
Fiorina ?nds root of political extremism
Talk links freedom struggles
Students adapt to new place
Our locations 
are all pretty 
unique, and we 
have a system 
in place in 
which access 
to food is 
broad.... Im 
quite pleased 
with the food 
offerings.
Paula Martin
Campus nutritionist
Jennifer Coloma/Operations Manager
Morris Fiorina used charts and graphs to explain the implications of the recent presidential election for the future of politics in America. 

---------------------------------------------------

Office: University Center 314
Phone: (412) 268-2111
Fax: (412) 268-1596
Web: www.thetartan.org
E-mail: contact@thetartan.org
Mail:
The Tartan
Box 119, UC Suite 103 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
CHRISTA HESTER *
Publisher
EMILY DOBLER *
Editor-in-Chief
JOSH SMITH 
Forum Editor 
EVAN KAHN
Copy Manager
JACKSON LANE
Senior Staffwriter
ANNA WALSH *
Personnel Manager
BRENT HEARD
Asst. News Editor
Editorial Staff
 2012 The Tartan, all rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN: 0890-3107
The Tartan is a student newspaper at Carnegie Mellon University, funded in part by the student 
activities fee. It is a weekly publication by students during the fall and spring semesters, printed by 
Trib Total Media. The Tartan is not an official publication of Carnegie Mellon University.
The Editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The 
Tartan Editorial Board. Columns, Editorial Cartoons, and Reviews are the opinions of their 
individual creators. The Tartan Editorial Staff reserves the right to withhold from publication 
any copy it deems unfit.
Letters to the Editor are the opinions of their authors. Letters from within the University community take precedence. Letters intended for publication must be signed and include the authors 
address and telephone number for verification; letters must not exceed 350 words. Authors names 
may be withheld from publication upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject 
any letter. Letters must be submitted by 5 p.m. on the Wednesday before publication by mail or to 
forum@thetartan.org.
Editorial Board
FROM THE EDITORIAL BOARD
SENIOR STAFF 
Stephanie Blotner, Stacey Chin, Greg 
Hanneman, Alan Vangpat
LAYOUT
Chloe Chia, Edward Wojciechowski 
COPY
Swathi Anand, Manali Banerjee, Sawsan 
Boutemine, Kairavi Chahal, Connie Chan, 
Nivedita Chopra, Braden Kelner, Sage Po, 
Taylor Rawley, Stephanie Stern, Julia Yang
ADVERTISING
Grace Chung, Seo Young Hwang
Staff
A4  thetartan.org/forum The Tartan  November 19, 2012
Students were delighted to ?nd 
the Bat Signal shining on the side of 
the Purnell Center for the Arts last 
Wednesday and Thursday nights, 
signaling the beginning of AB Films 
Batman week.
In addition to everyones Facebook News Feeds exploding, the 
sudden appearance of the Bat Signal illuminated the evening of many 
students working hard on their assignments due before Thanksgiving 
break.
AB Films showed all three movies 
of Christopher Nolans brilliant The 
Dark Knight trilogy, followed by a 
Batman-themed TBA on Sunday.
With students notoriously heavy 
workload bearing down on them 
before Thanksgiving break, the Batman-related events were a breath 
of fresh air. Similar to AB Special 
Events petting zoo last month, the 
Bat Signal and general Batman fanfare last week helped lighten the 
campus mood and reminded us that 
Carnegie Mellon is a special place.
The Bat Signal also reminded 
students of our own relationship to 
the Nolan franchise: Much of the the 
third ?lm, The Dark Knight Rises, was 
?lmed in Pittsburgh, with the climactic ?ght scene ?lmed on campus at 
the Mellon Institute.
On top of this, it can clearly be 
seen that Batman is the right superhero for Carnegie Mellon. He makes 
use of powerful, futuristic technology, survives on little to no sleep, 
and drives himself past his breaking 
points to do what needs to be done.
The Activities Board did an excellent job with Batman week, allowing students to see some of the best 
superhero movies made in recent 
memory and using such a creative 
promotion technique. Its the little 
things like the Bat Signal that make 
life on campus dynamic and keep 
Carnegie Mellon interesting.
Congratulations to the Activities 
Board for supplying and promoting 
Batman week and for providing the 
inspiration we need and deserve.
Measure to shame bad landlords bene?ts students
Bat Signal helps lighten campus mood before break
Student government rises from the ashes of the past
Josh Smith/Forum Editor
Remember when you moved off 
campus into a cheap apartment, only 
to ?nd that the landlord didnt take 
care of your residence? Yeah, we do 
too  but Pittsburgh councilman Bill 
Peduto has plans for these neglectful 
property owners. He wants to introduce legislation that would expose 
the 10 worst landlords in Pittsburgh: 
Pittsburgh Public Works would post 
their names and phone numbers in 
front of their buildings, encouraging 
neighbors and passerby to call and 
complain.
This shaming tactic might seem 
a bit dubious at ?rst glance. It may 
make these 10 landlords clean up 
their acts, and thus could really improve Pittsburgh living. But would it 
foster discontent between the property owners and their tenants?
If this legislation makes tenants 
and neighbors speak up about their 
despicable living situations, then 
great: The con?ict should help to improve living conditions for residents. 
Besides, this concept is hardly unprecedented. 
Many other U.S. cities have similar if not identical policies, and Pittsburgh used it back in the 90s to take 
out ?ve nuisance properties. Why 
not bring back a policy that worked 
well in the past? Most people care 
about their job reputations, and being labeled as one of the 10 worst 
landlords in Pittsburgh cant be good 
for business.
The last thing that college students are looking for when they 
move into their own place is a negligent landlord. Students might not 
know right away how to work out 
payments or what exact charges 
theyll ?nd on their utilities bills. The 
least they can ask for is a landlord 
who will be there to answer these 
questions  one willing to respond 
(even grudgingly) to the complaints 
of tenants, students, or others.
Housing prices in Pittsburgh are 
low compared to those in other U.S. 
cities  go check out San Franciscos 
rental rates to appreciate Pittsburgh 
even more  and Carnegie Mellon 
students can leave campus housing 
as early as their sophomore year. 
This may contribute to the fact that 
about 39 percent of undergraduates 
live off campus, according to U.S. 
News and World Report. 
Measures like Pedutos proposed 
legislation will make this transition from college dorm to rented 
residence smoother for a number of 
students.
Thanksgiving break provides the 
perfect opportunity to re?ect upon 
the semester thus far and ?gure out 
what were thankful for from the past 
semester. We want to commend student government for the work it has 
done so far this year.
Student Senate has been far more 
visible on campus this semester than 
in recent years. During Student Senate Week, Senate not only raised 
awareness by giving out plenty of 
free food and Student Senate gear, 
but it also pushed students to connect with their Senators and to make 
suggestions on how Senate could improve through email correspondence 
and tabling. 
The level of activity on Senates 
Facebook page and the banner on 
the front of Doherty Hall, advertising Senates weekly open meetings, 
is further evidence of the better attempts Senate has made this year to 
reach out to its constituents.
The executive branch has also 
been far more visible and active than 
in previous years. Student Body President Will Weiner and Vice President 
Meela Dudley have made their presence known through town hall meetings, events for the national election, 
and their frequently updated Facebook page  a clear improvement 
over the silence of last years president and vice president.
Student Body Vice President for 
Finance Jon Mark has also been proactive in his attempt to better serve 
student organizations through his 
referendum for a raise in the student 
activities fee. Although the referendum vote had a disappointingly 
low turnout  only 18.11 percent of 
undergraduate students voted  it 
wasnt for lack of effort on student 
governments part: Mark held two 
town hall meetings on the fee raise, 
and there were signs up around campus urging people to vote in The 
second most important election of 
the month.
The Graduate Student Assembly 
has always been a strong, positive 
presence on campus, and this semester was no exception: The new bicycle racks and maintenance centers 
that it had installed around campus 
will serve members of the campus 
community for years to come.
We are glad to see that every 
branch of student government appears to be taking its duties seriously this year, and we hope to see 
even more action from them next 
semester.
Individuals should ?nd a higher power in life
KYLE HENSON
After going through an atheist 
and an agnostic phase, I strongly 
believe in God. I dont believe in a 
religious God, nor an anthropomorphic bearded white dude, but the 
kind of God who got bored one day, 
snapped his ?ngers, created the universe and then sat back with a pia 
colada to watch it unfold.
Religion is a deeply personal matter. Getting to the nexus of how you 
answer lifes mysteries is one of the 
most rewarding of lifes journeys. 
My beliefs have always come under 
?re in conversations I have with 
atheists, but these conversations, 
along with others stories of acceptance and rejection of religion, God, 
and spirituality, have all helped me 
reach my conclusions about a higher 
power.
I was raised Catholic and hated 
every second of it. Mass was annoying and completely inaccessible. 
Similarly, Confraternity of Christian 
Doctrine (CCD), an after-school 
Catholic education program that 
leeched every Wednesday afternoon 
of my elementary-school years, was 
something I dreaded more than 
brussels sprouts.
Yet every Sunday, my family 
dragged me to church, and every 
Wednesday I found myself at our local Catholic school for CCD until I 
was con?rmed. 
Despite not fully understanding my religion, I was a Catholic. 
I believed in Christ, communion, 
miracles, and sacraments. I also believed that, in time, I would understand and appreciate the arcane inner workings of my faith that eluded 
me. Shortly after being con?rmed, 
however, two things happened that 
changed my perspective.
First, my family stopped going to 
church in the wake of a sexual abuse 
case that occurred in our diocese. At 
12 years old, I was a bit too young 
and sheltered to fully understand 
how horri?c these events were; it 
was the lack of weekly exposure that 
gradually distanced me from a faith 
I was not fully invested in.
Second, I stumbled upon a letter 
from my father to my grandmother. 
In it, he detailed some of the very 
same questions about the Catholic 
church that I was struggling with. 
He couldnt identify with sermons, 
and he was struggling to access 
his own personal relationship with 
Jesus.
This, combined with my recent 
discovery of the cold hard truth 
about Santa Claus, dealt the Catholic Church a lethal blow. I thought 
that I was just too young to understand what church was all about. I 
was told that eventually the esoterica would be unlocked, and Id get as 
much out of the church as Id put in 
over the years. 
I thought time and maturity were 
all that stood in the way between 
me and a ful?lling religious experience. I thought wrong. The Roman 
Catholic Emperor had no clothes on, 
and with increasing faith in science, 
I became an atheist for a number of 
years.
What brought me back to God 
was Alcoholics Anonymous (AA). 
One of my extended family members is a recovering alcoholic who 
has achieved 27 years of sobriety. 
Out of a desire to share his experiences with me, hes taken me to a 
few meetings. While not a religious 
program, AA does require you to 
accept a higher power. A typical 
meeting will involve welcoming new 
members, recognition of sobriety 
anniversaries, and group prayer  
and typically people will share the 
story of how they achieved sobriety 
and what keeps them sober. Some of 
the stories are absolutely incredible 
and miraculous.
The most memorable story was 
about a man who, on his 24th birthday, hit rock bottom. Having alienated friends and family, he locked 
himself in a room with a gun and 
bottle of vodka vowing that, come 
morning, either he would come 
out with the unopened bottle or he 
wouldnt come out at all. He made 
it through the night without drinking, and in the morning, he checked 
himself into rehab. He went on to 
lead a very ful?lling life and died in 
his 80s surrounded by friends and 
family.
After hearing many stories, what 
struck me most was how it became 
easier for people to stop drinking 
once they accepted a higher power. 
Remarkably, everyones interpretation of a higher power was different. 
One woman thought of God as an 
acronym for Good Orderly Direction, representing the notion of 
putting yourself on a path and doing 
the next right thing to achieve not 
just sobriety, but any goal. God, to 
her, was the objective sense of what 
the next right thing was. After accepting this, she found it easier to 
stop drinking.
These stories inspired me to 
search for my own higher power, 
which I initially found in music and 
in a collective human energy toward 
positivity. Both had the ability to 
make me feel a uniquely positive set 
of emotions that inspired me to be a 
better person and do better things. 
Combined with a new analysis 
of the seemingly miraculous fact of 
free will, these stories helped me 
start to believe in God, a process 
that ?nished after learning about 
just how well suited Earth is for human habitation. It seems almost too 
good to be true. While we de?nitely 
evolved to adapt to our ridiculously 
optimal conditions, its easier for me 
to believe that this was set into motion by some higher power, rather 
than arrived at by chance.
I know none of this can be proven 
as objectively true, but to me spirituality isnt about being right. Ive 
found spirituality to be about enriching my life and ?nding purpose 
and inspiration to help guide me. 
Well never know for sure exactly 
what set the big bang into motion or 
why were here. 
I think its a mistake to write off 
belief in a higher power just because 
you believe that Genesis is wrong 
about creation or if you are disillusioned with organized religion. I fall 
into both of those categories, and I 
still ?nd a substantial bene?t from a 
belief in God.
Ive come to realize that my set of 
beliefs works for me and wont work 
for everyone else. These are the conclusions that Ive come to and they 
enrich my life every day. 
Spirituality has humbled and inspired me to take joy in little things 
and be truly grateful for everything 
that I have. I hope that everyone can 
be inspired to feel this way through 
whatever force moves them, whether its spiritual or not, but if you 
havent found your own higher 
power, by no means should you stop 
searching.
Kyle Henson (kahenson@) is a staffwriter for The Tartan.
* Denotes executive committee member
JENNIFER COLOMA *
Operations Manager
MADELYN GLYMOUR
News Editor
MICHAEL SETZER
Acting SciTech Editor
ALEX TAPAK
Sports Co-Editor
ADAM GRUBER
Sports Co-Editor
RACHEL COHEN
Pillbox Editor
NICOLE HAMILTON
Comics Editor
JONATHAN CARREON
Photo Editor
ADELAIDE COLE
Art Editor
ALEX CRICHTON
Systems Manager
KATHY CHEN
Advertising Manager
KENNETH WONG
Business Manager
JUSTIN MCGOWN
Online Editor
NOL UM
Asst. News Editor
ABBY SMITH
Asst. Sports Editor
LAURA SCHERB
Asst. Pillbox Editor
KELLY HARRINGTON
Asst. Systems Manager
WILL CRICHTON
Asst. Systems Manager
BONITA LEUNG
Asst. Copy Manager
HANNAH DELLABELLA
Asst. Copy Manager
CHLOE THOMPSON
Asst. Personnel Manager
ALLISON COSBY *
Staffwriter

---------------------------------------------------

A PERSONS OPINION
Thanksgiving is this week, and The Tartan feels tryptophan-tastic. So we asked,
What do you plan on doing over Thanksgiving break?
Compiled by Jennifer Coloma
November 19, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/forum  A5
You can try, but you cant secede
XIYU WANG
Junior Staffwriter
Residents in over 30 states have 
?led online petitions last week to 
secede from the U.S. Most of these 
states are red states, but petitions 
have also been created for California, 
New York, and New Jersey. 
The White House website has 
a section called We the People, 
through which citizens can submit 
their own petitions to the President.
These petitions are then reviewed 
by the administration if they receive 
25,000 signatures in 30 days. Many 
of the petitions reached the 25,000 
threshold within days of being created. The petition for Texas to secede 
has already accrued over 113,000 
signatures, and the petition for Louisianas secession has gained over 
36,000 signatures.
Obviously, the signers of the petitions have not clearly thought out 
the implications of secession and the 
creation of a new country. The existing infrastructure in the U.S. does 
not accommodate several separate 
countries  think about the highways, the banking system, and the 
postal service.
Would these new country-states 
each have their own currency? What 
about all of the citizens that rely on 
federal aid, like the poor, the sick, 
and the elderly  would they still be 
covered? Could a state-turned-country quickly and ef?ciently resolve 
natural disasters? What about national security and defense? If a state 
were to actually secede, its likely 
that many of the states ?nances and 
bureaucratic structures would be 
thrown into complete disarray.
So given these logistical questions, the people that are threatening to secede from the Union come 
off as eight-year-olds threatening to 
run away from home.
But for a moment, lets put aside 
the question of whether the states 
can actually secede, and ask whether 
or not they should.
Its very tempting to say yes to secession. The petitions, all of which 
were ?led a few days after Election 
Day, re?ect a sense of civic immaturity and smug self-centeredness 
on the part of their signers. I am 
proud to be an American, as long as 
I always get my way on every issue 
ever, is not exactly the most patriotic statement you can make.
Elections may not always go your 
way, but sometimes we have to accept 
that fact as members of a democratic 
society. There will always be other 
elections, both on the federal and 
state levels, as well as other avenues 
to make your voice heard in government. Secession, or irrevocably cutting the ties between your state and 
the Union, should only be reserved 
for the most drastic situations in 
which there are no viable democratic 
ways to reform government.
As a nation, weve come a long 
way after two centuries. Politics may 
be bitter at the moment, but they 
have been much worse. Weve gone 
through two World Wars, suffered 
countless national disasters, had 43 
presidents, and witnessed a myriad 
of social and political movements 
throughout the years. Proposing secession after a single election that 
doesnt go your way is like divorcing 
someone youve been married to for 
40 years over a bad casserole dish.
Thankfully, the respective governments of the petition-?ling states 
dont seem to be taking the case for 
secession too seriously, so the possibility of another civil war is small. 
Still, its somewhat demoralizing to 
see that there are some people in 
America who would rather see the 
break-up of the U.S. than see their 
preferred candidate lose. But then 
again, thats democracy: Even the 
worst ideas have to be heard at some 
point.
Brony culture less about ponies, more about bros
JACKSON LANE
Although Carnegie Mellon students were probably impressed by 
the amazing quality of the My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic chalk 
drawings they saw around campus 
in the past weeks, they might have 
scratched their heads, wondering 
what about this show for little girls 
motivates adults in college to create 
such elaborate fan art.
My Little Pony: Friendship is 
Magic is a television series owned 
by toy company Hasbro that follows the unicorn Twilight Sparkle 
as she learns about friendship in the 
town of Ponyville. The show, based 
off Hasbros My Little Pony toy 
line, is currently in its third season. 
Although the shows target demographic is little girls, during its ?rst 
season it quickly built up a large internet fan base of adult males, who 
call themselves bronies.
Whats notable about bronies is 
not that they like a kids show, but 
rather the community theyve constructed. Theres nothing unusual 
about adults enjoying great animation, humor, and music. However, 
while My Little Pony is enjoyable for 
all ages, its nothing so spectacular 
as to warrant such an active online 
community.
Rather, the brony community 
forms around the My Little Pony 
meme, which is a separate phenomenon from the show. In particular, 
pieces of brony fan art, unaf?liated 
with Hasbro or the show, become 
?ags for bronies to rally around. 
The chalk drawing in particular is 
a good example because not only is 
it something to be proud of, but the 
collaborative nature of its creation 
also provides a reason for fans of the 
show to get together.
Viewership statistics on sites like 
YouTube con?rm that bronies are 
more interested in fan-made content than they are in the shows of?cial spin-off content. For example, 
the Of?cial My Little Pony YouTube 
Channel, started well before the series premiered in 2010, has 11,000 
subscribers and 2 million views. 
It plays trailers, toy commercials, 
episode highlights, and behind-thescenes features. The brony artist 
MandoPonys channel started last 
year, well after the series premiere,  
and it has 31,000 subscribers, 4 
million views, and plays fan music 
based on the show.
But even for a meme, the My 
Little Pony meme is unusual in its 
longevity and quality. Most memes 
only achieve such a high level of 
popularity for a couple of weeks before fading, and even then, fan art 
is typically limited to image macros 
and GIFs. The My Little Pony memes 
popularity stems from the fact that 
its based off a weekly show instead 
of a single video clip or image.
I believe the sophisticated level 
of artwork is much more for the survival of the meme than for celebrating the show. As I mentioned earlier, 
fan art de?nes the brony community 
and holds it together, but this is because bronies cant rally around the 
show alone. Ever since the adult fan 
base began, bronies have been ridiculed for liking a show for little girls, 
and this ridicule has grown along 
with the fan base.
As much as they would like to 
ignore the criticism, bronies are 
still sensitive to this ridicule, as any 
normal human would be. Many fans 
fear that acknowledging an affection for the show, even online under an anonymous username, is like 
coming out of the closet. 
However, acknowledging a liking for the shows fan art seems like 
a safer alternative to openly watching the show itself, since any ridicule 
about bronies will likely be coupled 
with praise for the fan art. The art 
is a source of pride to counterbalance any shame associated with the 
show. Without such artwork, the My 
Little Pony meme would probably 
lose much of its viral nature, jeopardizing its survival.
The My Little Pony meme is unlikely to end any time soon. There 
are still 10 episodes of the shows 
third season left to broadcast, and 
even if the show is not renewed for 
a fourth season, these episodes will 
provide inspiration for brony artists 
for months to come.
Jackson Lane (jelane@) is a senior 
staffwriter for The Tartan.
Maryyann Landlord/Junior Artist
Annette Ko/Junior Artist
Anti-gay law doesnt warrant pulling aid 
LUKE MASA
Uganda is poised to pass a new 
anti-gay law by the end of the year 
as a Christmas gift, said speaker 
of the Ugandan parliament Rebecca 
Kadaga, according to BBC. Such laws 
are already on the books in Uganda 
and many African countries, making 
it illegal to engage in homosexual 
activity.
The new bill originally proposed 
that the death penalty be implemented as punishment for acts de?ned as 
aggravated homosexuality, where 
one of those involved is HIV-positive, a minor, disabled, or a repeat 
offender. 
Certain circumstances still merit 
life in prison, however, and even the 
promotion of gay rights will be prohibited under this bill. Some international groups have said they will stop 
sending donations until Ugandan of?cials acknowledge such rights.
It almost goes without saying that 
the vast majority of us living in the 
U.S., even those that might oppose 
same-sex marriage, are against such 
horrendous treatment. Yet is it justi?cation for suspending aid? 
According to The New York Times, 
the U.S. still sends North Korea vast 
amounts of food just to keep the 
starving and impoverished population alive, despite the fact that the 
Kim family has been turning North 
Korean citizens against the West for 
over 50 years. Our government continues to condemn said actions and 
seeks an open dialogue, while aware 
that its words fall on deaf ears.
Two wrongs dont make a right. 
When we stop sending aid, not only 
are we hurting those that put this 
law into place, but were also hurting 
even further those affected by it. 
We should instead be offering 
assistance to gay people in Uganda 
while simultaneously attempting 
to educate those who support such 
medieval and draconian laws. Help 
should not be given with strings attached. Even if we were somehow 
indirectly ?nancing politicians and 
groups opposed to gay rights, this 
would not obligate us to cut off assistance across the board.
It is dif?cult for me to believe 
that, in this day and age, there are so 
many people still against equal rights 
for all, especially people who were 
once oppressed themselves. Then 
again, it is just as dif?cult to accept 
that there are millions worldwide 
stuck in poverty, sickness, and hunger when there are others who have 
their needs met in excess.
To quote Thomas Paine, The 
World is my country, all mankind 
are my brethren, and to do good is 
my religion. If more people could 
be convinced of this, the problems 
in Uganda might largely be abated. Convincing people is the real 
challenge.
Luke Masa (lmasa@) is a staffwriter 
for The Tartan.
When we stop 
sending aid, not 
only are we hurting 
those that put this 
law into place, but 
were also hurting 
even further those 
affected by it. 
April Wedderburn
CivE & Architecture
Sophomore
Eating.
Sahitya Pandiri
Information Systems Management
Masters student
Dinner party with the group.
Kelsey Dietz
Decision Science & Math
Sophomore
Cooking yummy food like 
Yorkshire pudding and spending 
time with my family.
Hammad Abbasi
Business Administration
Senior
Relax and sleep in.
Alan Liu
Entertainment Industry 
Management
Masters student
Turkey.

---------------------------------------------------

A6  thetartan.org/scitech The Tartan  November 19, 2012
DESIREE XU
Junior Staffwriter
Imagine robots that can 
survive in and respond to 
disasters. Relief efforts, like 
those recently mobilized for 
Hurricane Sandy, would employ machines to complete 
tasks that would normally 
pose large risks to humans. 
Researchers at Carnegie Mellon are developing prototypes 
that may help in these dire 
situations.
Three Carnegie Mellon 
robotics teams were selected 
to compete in the Defense 
Advanced Research Projects 
Agency (DARPA) Robotics 
challenge and now have a 
chance to win $2 million. The 
teams are split into Track A, 
which includes the Tartan 
Rescue Team, and Track B, 
which consists of Team Steel 
and RE2.
The Tartan Rescue Team is 
led by Tony Stentz, a research 
professor of robotics and the 
director of the National Robotics Engineering Center. 
Team Steel is led by Christopher Atkeson, a professor in 
the Robotics Institute and the 
Human-Computer Interaction 
Institute. RE2 is a team led by 
the Robotics Institutes spinoff company, RE2 Inc.
DARPA has split the competition into two parts: a virtual competition this June 
and a live hardware challenge 
in December 2013 and December 2014. While Track A 
receives $3 million in funding 
from DARPA to develop both 
software and hardware, Track 
B teams receive $375,000 to 
only develop software.
Both tracks will work on 
individual robots and equip 
them to complete physically challenging tasks in response to dangerous humanengineered environments. 
DARPAs ultimate goal is to 
have robots provide disaster 
relief in place of humans, who 
would risk their lives to do the 
same tasks with less ef?ciency 
and effectiveness.
According to Atkeson, the 
robots will have to complete 
a series of actions: getting in 
a car, driving, getting out of 
a car, walking through a ?eld 
of debris, opening a blocked 
door, climbing a ladder, turning a valve, and connecting a 
cable. 
In a university press release, DARPA program manager Gill Pratt explained that 
the challenge is designed to 
create a bridge that allows 
innovators to build more capable, affordable robots that 
are easier for nonexperts to 
operate.
While the Tartan Rescue 
Team will build software for 
its own robot, Team Steel 
and RE2 will create software 
programs for Atlas, a humanoid robot developed by Boston Dynamics, to use in the 
hardware challenge. Atlas 
will have arms, legs, a head, 
cameras for eyes, and a laser 
scanner to measure distance 
between objects.
We will make the robot 
capable of walking over rough 
terrain, and manipulating 
[objects in the surrounding areas], Atkeson said via 
email.
Besides striving to reach 
DARPAs objectives, Atkeson 
also plans to lead the National 
Science Foundation Engineering Research Center on Quality of Life Technology to develop technology that assists 
the old and disabled. Atkeson, 
who has been working on humanoids for 30 years, started 
research in his ?eld because 
he was inspired to build robots that help people. He also 
wanted to understand how 
people work and achieves this 
through building arti?cial 
ones.
I have to understand 
how humans are so skillful 
and enable robots to attain 
human-skill levels, Atkeson 
explained in the email.
The DARPA Robotics challenge is an opportunity for 
him to reach his goal, since 
the competition requires the 
robots to achieve agile behavior in a complex environment. 
Ultimately, all teams in the 
DARPA competition have a 
similar goal: to signi?cantly 
impact the human community.
Teams selected to compete in DARPA robotics challenge5-hour Energy linked to 13 deaths
Over the past four years, 
the energy shot 5-hour Energy has been shown to be 
possibly linked to 13 deaths. 
A summary of FDA records by 
The New York Times reported 
that 5-hour Energy has been 
mentioned in some 90 ?lings, 
more than 30 that involved 
serious or life-threatening injuries like heart attacks, convulsions and, in one case, a 
spontaneous abortion.
Living Essentials, LLC  
the distributor of the product 
 didnt respond to written 
inquiries regarding the beverage and did not disclose how 
much caffeine it contained, 
although an article by Consumer Reports put it at around 
215 mg. It appears that adverse effects are not limited 
to 5-hour Energy alone. Last 
year, the Substance Abuse 
and Mental Health Services 
Administration reported that 
13,000 emergency room visits 
in 2009 were related to energy drinks.
Source: The New York Times  
Two companies make advances in biofuel production
Two companies recently 
announced developments that 
will allow the large-scale commercial production of biofuel. 
KiOR, in Columbus, Miss., 
built a factory that mixes 
shredded wood waste with a 
catalyst that removes oxygen 
from the wood and processes 
the rest into fuel. 
Ineos, an oil and chemical 
company based in Europe, 
built a plant in Florida that 
cooks wood until it breaks 
down to hydrogen and carbon 
monoxide. These molecules 
are pumped into a steel tank 
?lled with bacteria, which 
will consume them and excrete ethanol. KiOR aims to 
produce 13 million gallons of 
fuel and Ineos aims to produce 8 million gallons of ethanol annually.
While the methods used by 
both companies make biofuel 
production far more ef?cient, 
there is still skepticism as to 
whether the reliability will 
outweigh the costs of production.
Source: The New York Times
Increasing number of strokes among young adults
Although strokes are 
mainly thought to affect individuals aged 60 and older, 
recent studies revealed they 
are becoming more common 
in younger people. Michelle 
Nimmerrichter was 20 years 
old when she suffered a stroke 
in 2011 that left her in a coma. 
Her stroke was caused by a 
blood clot, either induced by 
a genetic abnormality in her 
blood or by a blood-thickening hormonal contraceptive 
she was taking. She underwent three weeks of treatment before recovery.
Doctors say it is important for young people such as 
Nimmerrichter to recognize 
signs of a stroke, so they can 
be treated quickly and effectively. The signs include 
weakness or numbness in 
any part of the body; trouble 
speaking, understanding, seeing, or walking; dizziness; or 
severe, unusual headaches. It 
is imperative to remember not 
to dismiss such signs in young 
people.
Source: Science Daily
NASA orders all data to be encrypted after lost laptop
After losing a portable 
computer two weeks ago, 
NASA has ordered that all its 
electronic data be encrypted. 
The laptop, which was stolen 
Oct. 31 from NASA headquarters in Washington D.C., contained personal and sensitive 
information. Although it was 
locked, it is still susceptible to 
hacking since the data wasnt 
encrypted.
In response, NASA has 
warned all employees to be 
wary of potential phishing 
schemes, such as suspicious 
emails. To avoid future security breaches, CIO Linda Cureton has set a target to encrypt all of NASAs portable 
computers within a month, 
and has forbidden employees from storing sensitive information on their personal 
electronic devices.
Source: BBC
Light exposure at night linked to depression
A study conducted at 
Johns Hopkins revealed that 
excessive exposure to light 
from lamps and handheld devices at night is linked to depression and slower cognitive 
function. The research team 
studied the reaction of mice 
to a cycle of three-and-a-half 
hours of light and three-anda-half hours of darkness.
The mice in the study had 
an increased level of cortisol 
 a stress hormone linked to 
learning issues  and showed 
signs of depression, such as 
declining interest in sugar or 
pleasurable activities. The 
team believes excessive light 
exposure will have the same 
effect on humans since both 
species have intrinsically photosensitive retinal ganglion 
cells, which react to bright 
light.
Source: Science Daily
Malaria-carrying birds reach Alaskan territory
Mosquitoes that carry 
plasmodium, a parasite that 
causes malaria in birds, have 
been transported throughout 
North America via birds for 
millennia. Recently, the mosquitoes have made their way 
to Fair Banks, Ala. Most species of birds have developed 
an immunity to the plasmodium. 
Due to climate change, the 
birds which carry mosquitoes 
with plasmodium are traveling further north, and are 
expected to reach the Arctic 
Circle by 2080. While plasmodium does not affect humans, 
its northern spread is an object of concern because it may 
affect birds that have never 
been exposed to the parasite.
Source: www.sciencenews.org
Compiled by
SONIA KATHARANI-KHAN 
SCITECH BRIEFS
Courtesy of Christopher Atkeson
Two Carnegie Mellon DARPA challenge competitors will be creating 
software for Atlas, a humanoid robot developed by Boston Dynamics.
LIGIA NISTOR
Staffwriter
A team from Carnegie Mellon recently obtained ?rst 
place at the regional level of 
the Association for Computing Machinery International 
Collegiate Programming Contest (ACM-ICPC), one of the 
biggest college programming 
contests in the world, on Nov. 3.
Composed of senior computer science major Nathaniel Barshay, computer science 
Ph.D. student Yan Gu, and 
senior computer science and 
mathematics double major 
Jonathan Paulson, the team 
surpassed 130 others from 
the northeastern U.S. and 
Canada. Their win quali?es 
them for the ACM-ICPC World 
Finals, which will take place 
in St. Petersburg, Russia, this 
summer from June 30 to July 4.
It was a lot of fun, Paulson said. A lot of the problems 
on this particular contest were 
brute force. It was pretty easy 
to see what the answer was, 
but it was hard to code up the 
solution.
The competition required 
members of each team to solve 
nine complex programming 
problems in ?ve hours. One of 
the problems was inspired by 
a physical game. Say you are 
given seven hexagons with the 
numbers one through six written on the sides, and you want 
to rotate the pieces so that the 
matching numbers line up. 
The solution will have one 
hexagon in the center and six 
surrounding it. You can pick 
up the center piece, move it 
somewhere else and move another piece to the center. The 
teams had to ?nd an arrangement that solved this puzzle 
or declare that there was no 
solution.
Thats an example of a 
problem which is brute force, 
Paulson said. You pick the 
hexagon that is going to go in 
the center and then you pick 
the one that is going to go 
above it. Knowing that the 
numbers should match up, 
there was only one possible rotation for the second hexagon. 
The next step was to pick the 
third hexagon that matches.
You are going to try all 
possible hexagons to go in the 
center  there are seven, 
Paulson said. Then there are 
six hexagons from which you 
can pick the next one and so 
on. You just try every possible solution, he added. Since 
there were not many possible 
solutions, the algorithm was 
fast.
The Carnegie Mellon team 
was the only one that was 
able to solve the most dif?cult 
problem, a geometry problem. 
Given four completely arbitrary points on a plane, they 
had to build a fence around 
the four points such that every is ?ve feet away from the 
fence. The fence is supposed 
to be a square and every point 
should be closest to a different, unique side of the fence.
Thats the weird condition, Paulson said. The other 
tricky thing is that the square 
can be rotated; its not necessarily horizontal.
Paulson wrote his code in 
the Java programming language, while his teammates 
used C++. They had trained 
for a minimum of seven hours 
each week since the beginning 
of the semester.
Carnegie Mellon offers the 
course Competition Programming, which Paulson said is 
good practice for the contest. 
The course is being taught every semester by computer science professor Danny Sleator, 
who is the head coach of the 
team. The course also gives 
good practice for Google Code 
Jam, Facebook Hackathon, 
and job interviews, Paulson 
said. I think these programming contests are getting 
more popular.
In total, Carnegie Mellon 
sent ?ve teams to the regional 
competition. The rule is that 
the top four teams advance 
in competition, with only one 
team being allowed to represent each school. Although 
the other Carnegie Mellon 
teams got fourth, ?fth, sixth, 
and 23rd place, none of them 
got to advance.
The other teams from 
CMU were our biggest competition, Paulson said. We 
were pretty sure we would be 
in the top four schools, but we 
were worried about the other 
teams from CMU beating us.
One of the tough parts of 
the competition is that there 
is only one computer for each 
team. Everyone has a copy of 
the problem set, Paulson said. 
Everyone reads the problems 
and thinks about them. When 
a person is sure that they know 
the right answer and can write 
the code, he or she can use the 
computer.
Whoever thinks that 
they need the computer for 
the shortest time for a problem, gets it, Paulson said. 
The teammates usually try to 
work on different problems 
simultaneously. For the hardest problems at the end, there 
might be two people working 
on them, but in general, this is 
not advised.
We had two people coding and the last person was 
just thinking about problems. 
His job was to ?nd the hardest problems and solve them 
so that we dont get stuck on 
those at the end, Paulson explained.
CMU students place ?rst at ACM programming competition
Jonathan Leung/Staff Photographer
Senior computer science and mathematics double major Jonathan Paulson recently teamed up with Ph.D. 
student Yan Gu and senior computer science major Nathaniel Barshay to take ?rst place at the Regional 
ACM-ICPC.

---------------------------------------------------

November 19, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/sports  A7
Swimming, diving teams dominate annual quad meet
        Jonathan Leung/Staff Photographer 
Sophomore David Campbell ?nished second in the 1,000-yard freestyle with a time of 9:57.23.
ALEX TAPAK
Sports Co-Editor
The mens and womens 
swimming and diving teams 
dominated another home 
meet. This weekend, the Tartans hosted three schools in 
the Carnegie Mellon annual 
quad home meet: Allegheny College, the University of 
Rochester, and Washington & 
Lee University.
Both Tartan teams swept 
the ?eld. 
The men defeated Allegheny College 17884, University of Rochester 18577, and 
Washington & Lee University 
132.50129.50. 
The women performed 
just as well, defeating Allegheny College 16884, University of Rochester 149108, and 
Washington & Lee University 
194163.
Saturdays meet was a 
great meet for us. We really 
showed our depth as a mens 
team by taking so many of 
the top spots, junior Austin 
Bohn said. We have a huge 
freshman class and they really 
stepped up like we need them 
to. Our goals are set really 
high for the end of the season, 
so this is a good place to start. 
Were looking forward to the 
next meet.
In the freestyle races, ?rstyears Christopher Wysocki 
and Steven Geier placed ?rst 
in the 1,000-yard and 200-
yard freestyle, respectively, 
with season-best times. 
Wysocki ?nished with a time 
of 9:53.73 and Geier ?nished 
with a time of 1:45.38. Geier 
also placed ?rst in the 500-
yard freestyle with a time of 
4:47.35.
Bohn took ?rst place in the 
100-yard breaststroke with a 
time of 1:00.36, while sophomore Cole Um took ?rst in the 
200-yard breaststroke with a 
time of 2:13.50. 
Senior Brandon Yee put 
the Tartans on the board in 
butter?y, taking ?rst in the 
200-yard butter?y with a time 
of 1:55.69.
On the womens side, 
the Tartans took ?rst in the 
200-yard medley relay with 
a young team of ?rst-years, 
Kira Singhaus swimming 
butter?y and Shieri Suzuka 
swimming breaststroke. They 
were joined by junior duo of 
Tatiana Duchak swimming 
backstroke and Soleil Phan 
swimming freestyle, who ?nished the relay in 1:50.42.
Phan also won the 200-
yard and 500-yard freestyle. 
First-year standout Felicia 
Wang won the 100-yard and 
200-yard breaststroke with 
times of 1:07.15 and 2:30.65, 
respectively.
In the longest event of the 
meet, sophomore Kaeli Halbersleben placed ?rst in the 
1,000-yard freestyle after a 
grueling 10:59.00 swim.
The Tartans have Thanksgiving break off before traveling to Kenyon College in 
Gambier, Ohio, to compete in 
the Total Performance Invitational, a three-day meet starting Nov. 29.
SPORTS COMMENTARYThe Steelers battle with health
CARL GLAZER
Staffwriter
The Steelers overcame the 
injuries sustained by their 
veteran team for much of the 
season and prevailed, earning a 63 record and placing 
themselves in the middle of 
the playoff hunt.
Defensive starters James 
Harrison and Troy Polamalu 
missed signi?cant time, all 
three running backs (Rashard 
Mendenhall, Issac Redman, 
and Jonathon Dwyer) have 
been ?ghting nagging injuries, and play-making wide 
receiver Antonio Brown is still 
out with an ankle injury. All 
of these setbacks, as well as 
the loss of starting quarterback Ben Roethlisberger to a 
sprained throwing shoulder 
and damaged ribs, may be too 
much to overcome.
Since Roethlisbergers 
debut in 2004, he has only 
missed 13 games, with four 
of those coming from his 
suspension during the 2010 
season. In these games, the 
Steelers played well, going 
85, but four of the ?ve losses 
came against the division rival Baltimore Ravens, which 
the Steelers are set to play 
against in upcoming games.
Roethlisberger is known 
for his toughness and ability to play well through pain 
and injury. Unfortunately, 
his toughness doesnt matter here, since his rib injury 
threatens to cut his aorta and 
kill him if he gets hit before 
being fully healed. Because 
of the risks involved, Roethlisberger is sidelined inde?-
nitely until the doctors can 
con?rm he is no longer at risk.
Stepping in for Roethlisberger will be journeyman 
backup Byron Leftwich, who 
last started a game in 2009 for 
the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. 
Leftwich has been criticized 
for his slow release and limited mobility, both of which 
will be ampli?ed by offensive 
coordinator Todd Haleys new 
offensive scheme, as well as 
the injured and porous offensive line.
Thankfully for the Steelers, Roethlisbergers injury 
comes at a time when the rest 
of the team is getting healthier. All three running backs are 
?nally healthy, and the athletes on the Steelers defense 
are getting healthier and playing more like they have in the 
past. The play-making abilities of wide receivers Mike 
Wallace and Emmanuel Sanders, along with the consistency of tight end Heath Miller, 
complete this improvement.
The Pittsburgh season 
rests in the hands of Leftwich and his ability to protect 
the football, as well as in the 
defense, which will need to 
clamp down and make up for 
the signi?cantly less potent 
Steeler offense. In his games 
as a starter with the Jacksonville Jaguars, Atlanta Falcons, 
and Buccaneers, Leftwich 
went a mediocre 2425. If the 
Steelers only win half their 
games the rest of the season, 
the team is looking at a 106 
or 97 record, which places 
them on the wild card bubble.
With ?ve of their last seven games coming up against 
division rivals, the Steelers 
will need to play well to win 
the division and guarantee 
themselves a playoff spot. 
Right now, the Steelers sit 
two games behind the Ravens 
in the division, after a loss to 
the Ravens on Sunday.  If the 
Steelers lose to the Ravens 
again in two weeks, a playoff 
appearance might be lost.
The Steelers will need to 
revert back to the ground 
and pound team they once 
were, relying on their running 
games to move the ball down 
the ?eld and control the time 
of possession while the defense forces turnovers to create short ?elds, holding the 
other team in check.
Roethlisbergers injury exempli?es the Steelers season 
of injuries, as they ?eld the 
oldest starting defense in the 
NFL. The Steelers needs to 
stay healthy to still have a shot 
at the playoffs. They will have 
to hope that Roethlisberger is 
healthy by January in order 
to have any chance at making 
noise in the postseason, but if 
the ?rst half of the season is 
any indicator, the odds of the 
Steelers keeping the injury report clean for the rest of the 
season is slim.
Mens basketball starts 02
ADAM GRUBER
Sports Co-Editor
The mens basketball team 
participated in the Al Van 
Wie/Rotary Classic at the College of Wooster on Friday and 
Saturday. The Tartans played 
a game on each day, battling 
the Wooster Fighting Scots on 
Friday and the Otterbein University Cardinals on Saturday.
The 13th-ranked Fighting 
Scots proved to a challenging 
opposition to open regular 
season play for the Tartans, as 
the Carnegie Mellon team fell 
7967. 
Junior Asad Meghani led 
the way for the Tartans with 
his great shooting, scoring 20 
points on ?ve of nine shooting 
from three-point land. Junior 
guard Rashaun Riley added 
11 points on ?ve of nine 
shooting.
Meghani also tied with the 
most assists on the night for 
the Tartans with three, along 
with junior forward Rob Mohen.
After an abysmal ?rst half, 
where the Tartans shot just 
27.6 percent from the ?oor, 
the second half proved to 
be much better. The Tartans 
played the Fighting Scots almost even, losing the second 
half by only four points. But 
after the cold ?rst half, the 
Tartans could not get out of 
the hole they had dug for 
themselves.
The Fighting Scots shot a 
blistering 58.2 percent and 
scored 50 points in the paint, 
besting the Tartans 18 points 
in the paint.
On Saturday, the Tartans 
played Otterbein, losing this 
game 7558.
Senior guard Andre Moore 
scored a career-high 22 points 
on nine of 14 shooting, four of 
six from three.
Moore ?lled up the stat 
sheet, grabbing six rebounds 
and doling out three assists. 
Even his defense was on 
point, racking up four steals 
on the night.
The only other Tartan who 
scored in double ?gures was 
junior forward Sean Brophy, 
who had 11 points on three of 
six shooting.
Yet again, the ef?cient 
shooting of the Tartans opponent made victory nearly 
impossible to attain. The Cardinals shot 57.4 percent from 
the ?eld and 42.9 percent 
from three, while the Tartans 
?eld goal percentage was just 
37.5.
This weekend didnt turn 
out how we expected, but 
were going to bounce back, 
Moore said. Im extremely 
con?dent in our team, and I 
feel like we have the potential 
for a promising season. We 
have all the pieces, we just 
have to put them together.
File Photo
Junior guard Rashaun Riley (No. 5) scored 11 points against the College of Wooster.
ADAM GRUBER
Sports Co-Editor
The womens basketball 
team opened its season with 
the DoubleTree Classic, hosted by Carnegie Mellon. The 
Tartans opened the season 
against Wesley College and 
played their second game 
against Otterbein University, 
splitting the two games.
In the ?rst game, Carnegie Mellon took on the Wesley College Wolverines and 
coasted to an 8043 victory. 
Senior forward Emily Peel led 
the way with 20 points, making six out of nine shots. Off 
the bench, sophomore forward Gabrielle West poured 
in 18 points on seven of 13 
shooting.
First-year forward Liza 
Otto played a well-rounded 
game, going six for six in the 
?rst half, and dished out ?ve 
assists in the game. Otto also 
pulled down eight rebounds.
First-year guard Lindsay 
Poss led the Tartans dominant rebounding with 11 
boards. The Tartans won the 
rebounding battle 5833.
It was great to start the 
season off with a win, Peel 
said. We really controlled 
the tempo and the boards 
against Wesley.
In Saturdays game, the 
second of the DoubleTree 
Classic for Carnegie Mellon, 
the Tartans faced the Otterbein University Cardinals, 
falling in the close game 
5954.
West and Peel led the way 
again for the Tartans in this 
close game. West scored 18 
points on six of 18 shooting 
and Peel recorded a doubledouble, pulling down 13 
rebounds and scoring 10 
points.
The ball did not move 
as ?uidly on offense in this 
game as it did in Fridays 
game. The Tartans only recorded six assists as a team 
against the Cardinals, versus 
21 against the Wolverines.
The lack of ball movement 
led to fewer open shots, as 
the Tartans shot just 38 percent from the ?eld and 28.6 
percent from three. In the 
victory the day before, the 
Tartans shot 47.7 percent 
from the ?eld and a scorching 42.9 percent from threepoint territory.
I think it was great to 
have such a competitive 
game at the beginning of the 
year, because our entire team 
knows the level we have to 
compete at, Peel said.
The Tartans next game is 
against Grove City College at 
home on Tuesday. Tipoff is at 
6 p.m.
Editors note: Gabrielle West is 
a staffwriter for The Tartan.
Womens basketball goes 11 through ?rst two games
File photo by Kate Groschner/Staff Photographer
Senior forward Emily Peel (No. 4) led the Tartans in scoring last season, averaging 15.4 points per game on 58.4 percent shooting.

---------------------------------------------------

ALEX TAPAK
Sports Co-Editor
The No. 17-ranked womens soccer team continued 
to charge its way through the 
NCAA tournament draw, until 
facing a tight loss on Sunday 
against Emory University.
On Saturday, the Tartans 
took the ?eld against No. 25 
Wheaton College of Massachusetts and emerged victorious, 30.
We scored against Wheaton and never let up. It was 
all about our mentality and 
will to win, senior mid?elder 
Stephanie Hare said. Now 
the focus is on Emory and 
keeping our national championship dreams alive.
It was a sunny 53 F when 
the Tartans played against the 
Wheaton College Lyons. The 
Tartans gained control of the 
ball early in the game, and set 
the tone with their ?rst goal 
from junior forward Alex Venegas within the ?rst ?ve minutes. The Tartans continued 
to pressure the Wheaton defense, keeping the ball in the 
Lyons end of the ?eld. Thirteen minutes later, Venegas 
scored again by kicking the 
ball out of the Lyons goalies 
reach. Carnegie Mellon had 
11 shots on goal in the ?rst 
half.
In the second half, the 
game became tighter, and the 
Lyons played better defense. 
In this half, the Tartans only 
had ?ve shots on goal.
The Tartans defense remained strong throughout, 
only allowing the Lyons ?ve 
shots on goal the entire game. 
With help from the Tartan 
defense, junior goalkeeper 
Anna Albi recorded her sixth 
straight shut out.
Junior defender Rachel 
Contopoulos scored her ?rst 
goal of the season in the second half of the game, increasing the Tartans lead to 30.
Its another great day to 
be a Tartan, sophomore defender Lauren Simicich said.
However, the team fell in 
the quarter?nal round of the 
NCAAs the following day. The 
Tartans took on No. 16 ranked 
Emory University Eagles at 
home with 302 fans cheering 
them on.
The Tartans have a lot of 
experience against the Eagles 
from University Athletic Association play. But despite all 
the matchup experience, the 
two teams could not score.
Yesterday in NCAA play, 
the Tartans and the Eagles 
stood deadlocked at 00 
through two overtimes and 
well into the shootout.
The Eagles ?nally pulled 
through, winning 1110 in 
the shootout. Emory will play 
in the semi?nal round against 
Wheaton College of Illinois.
A8  thetartan.org/sports The Tartan  November 19, 2012
Womens soccer falls in a quarter?nal heartbreaker
Kelsey Scott/Staff Photographer
The Tartans fell short in their last game of the season, losing to a team that ?nished with the same record.
ABBY SMITH
Assistant Sports Editor
Although a panda isnt usually known as 
an aquatic animal, sophomore Cole Um, previously nicknamed Panda by the Carnegie 
Mellon swim team, has contributed greatly 
to the Tartans recent swimming success.
Originally from Federal Way, Wash., Um 
has been one of Carnegie Mellons top swimmers this season, placing ?rst in the 100-
yard breaststroke to propel the Tartans to 
victory against Grove City College.
This past weekend, Um placed second in 
the 100-yard breaststroke to place second 
overall, helping the Tartans win three individual dual meets during the annual home 
quad meet against Allegheny College, University of Rochester, and Washington & Lee 
University.
The depth of our team has improved, 
Um said. Last year was a struggle, but now 
I feel that in every event weve been pretty 
dominant.
Um had a decent start to his swimming 
career last year: He quali?ed for the University Athletic Association Conference championship, where he placed in the top 20 in 
several of his signature events. Still, he knew 
that he wanted to improve.
Thats the great thing about swimming, 
Um said. You can always get better.
His specialty has always been breaststroke, but he also enjoys the 200-yard medley relay.
Um has always had a passion for swimming, and admitted that although the practices are awful, there is nothing like winning 
a race. He said, I love racing. I love that intensity when youre right next to someone, 
and you just want to beat them. That sense 
of competitiveness is like no other.
Ums passion earned him the opportunity 
to coach 10 and under swimmers for a local club team this past summer. 
I really want to help young athletes succeed and share my love for swimming, he 
said.
Um also has noticed a difference between competing for Carnegie Mellon and 
competing for other swim teams. When Im 
out here, Im not just competing for myself. 
Obviously I want to do well individually, but 
really, [swimming for Carnegie Mellon,] I 
feel like Im swimming for my teammates, 
he said.
Um emphasized the camaraderie of the 
swim team, which is highlighted by the 
teams annual training trip. For the second 
half of winter break, the team travels down 
to Orlando, Fla., where in addition to intensive swimming, they spend time bonding 
and soaking up the sun, he said.
It is de?nitely something I look forward 
to every year, Um said. I love just hanging 
out with everyone.
He also stressed the importance of the 
teams relationship with the coaching staff, 
comprised of head coach Matt Kinney and 
assistant coaches Kellie Ayres and Miki 
Silver.
The swimming coaches are wonderful 
and add to the excellent chemistry of the 
team, Um said. It would be really hard to 
improve without their constant support.
When hes not swimming or participating 
in his other hobbies, such as playing pool, 
Um studies mechanical engineering. Its a 
boatload of work, but swimming de?nitely 
helps me destress, he said.
Um sets his goals high as he remains optimistic for the rest of the season. Nationals is 
our number-one team goal. And I absolutely 
think we can do it, he said.Jonathan Leung/Staff Photographer
ATHLETE PROFILESophomore Cole Um challenges himself to be better
Football falls 2824 in Southwest Bowl
File photo by Kelsey Scott/Staff Photographer
Senior outside linebacker Nick Karabin (No. 44) had 11 tackles against Waynesburg University, tied for the most in the game.
ADAM GRUBER
Sports Co-Editor
In the ?nal game of the 
season, the Tartans took on 
the Waynesburg University 
Yellow Jackets in the Eastern 
College Athletic Conference 
Southwest Bowl on Saturday. 
In a closely fought game, the 
Tartans came up just short, 
losing 2824.
Junior quarterback Rob 
Kalkstein set three singleseason records at seasons 
end. Kalkstein threw for 188 
yards on 10 of 19 total passes 
with two touchdowns. The 
188 yards put Kalkstein at 
2,148 yards, passing Thomas 
Hubkas record set in 1967. 
Kalkstein also broke Hubkas 
record of 127 completions in a 
single season, throwing 136 in 
this campaign. Additionally, 
his .624 completion percentage tops graduated quarterback Phil Pantalones .623 
percentage from 2009.
With all the injuries weve 
had at running back, we really needed a stronger passing 
game that weve had in the 
past. Rob stepped up, said senior cornerback Sam Thompson.
Junior wide receiver Tim 
Kikta was electric in this 
game, averaging 30.8 yards 
per reception on 154 total 
receiving yards. Kikta had a 
touchdown catch as well.
Junior running back Michael Trentalange rushed seven times for 100 yards. Senior 
fullback Jared Delello had the 
only rushing touchdown in 
the game for the Tartans.
The Tartans faltered in 
stopping the run. Yellow Jacket running backs Bertrand 
Ngampa and Dominic Moore 
rushed for nearly 300 yards 
combined, 170 and 110 yards, 
respectively. Ngampa rushed 
for one touchdown and Moore 
found the end zone twice.
Junior inside linebacker 
Akwasi Brefo and senior outside linebacker Nick Karabin 
led the defense in tackles, 
each with 11.
Senior cornerback Liam 
McGrath had an interception 
for his seventh on the season. 
His seventh pick ties him with 
Thompson last season and 
Andy Helms in 1991 for most 
interceptions in a single season.
The Tartans ?nished 65 
on the season. After a 40 
start, the Tartans began to 
struggle, but the hot start was 
enough to land them in a bowl 
game.
Despite the loss, many Tartan players were able to make 
Carnegie Mellon history in 
this ?nal game.
ALEX TAPAK
Sports Co-Editor
The mens cross country 
team hit the road this weekend and traveled to Terre 
Haute, Ind., to compete in the 
Division-III Championships. 
The top ?ve runners scores 
were factored in to earn the 
Tartans a No. 17 place ?nish 
out of 32 teams.
Nationals was an incredible experience, its amazing 
being around so many elite 
athletes. Not all of us had our 
best race today, but the fact 
that the Tartans got 17th in 
the nation on a bad day re?ects just how great our team 
was this season, junior Josh 
Newby said. Weve all been 
working our tails off nearly 
every day since the beginning 
of the summer and its great 
that the work has paid off in 
such a big way.
The ?rst Tartan to cross 
the ?nish line was senior 
Evan Gates, who completed 
the eight kilometer race with 
a time of 25:10.8. Sophomore 
George Degen and Newby 
?nished within 20 seconds 
of each other with times of 
25:29.3 and 25:49.5, respectively. The ?nal two runners 
to add to the Tartans score 
were juniors Ken Murphy, 
who ?nished in 26:03.4, and 
Brendan OHara, who ?nished at 26:19.8.
I dont think we had our 
best race, but to have ?nished equal to our pre-meet 
ranking on an off day is very 
satisfying. Everyone except 
Evan was running his ?rst 
national meet, and it was 
very different from any meet 
we had run before, senior 
Graham Shorr said. I think 
the underclassmen can look 
forward to building off this 
years experience, and the seniors can be proud of leading 
the team back to nationals.
This race was the last 
of this seasons cross country campaign. The Tartans 
ended the season with two 
?rst-place ?nishes and two 
second-place ?nishes.
Coach Donatelli and assistant coach Mallory designed our training for us 
to peak right now, and it 
worked, Newby said. All of 
us on the bus driving home 
right now are in high spirits 
and looking forward to heading to nationals again next 
year.
Cross country 
season concludes
... the fact that 
the Tartans 
got 17th in the 
nation on a bad 
day re?ects just 
how great our 
team was this 
season.
Josh Newby
Junior cross country 
runner

---------------------------------------------------

Bhangra in the Burgh
Competing teams from around the 
nation converge in Pittsburgh  B9
11.19.12 Volume 107, Issue 12
The Frame Gallery
First-year students in the School of Art 
showcase their creations  B4

---------------------------------------------------

Puzzles
Focus your brain power and try to complete 
this weeks puzzles.
11
The Tartan . Box 119 . UC Suite 103 . Carnegie Mellon University . 5000 Forbes Ave . Pittsburgh, PA 15213 . www.thetartan.org .  2012 The Tartan
PUBLISHER Christa Hester EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Emily Dobler
PILLBOX EDITOR Rachel Cohen ASSISTANT PILLBOX EDITOR Laura Scherb COMICS EDITOR Nicole Hamilton 
ART EDITOR Adelaide Cole PHOTO EDITOR Jonathan Carreon 
COPY MANAGER Evan Kahn COVER Braden Kelner
4
3689
regulars...
Advice
Everything you need to know about video 
gaming and chatting up the ladies.
3
...diversions
...this week onlyWinter Fashion
Find out how to avoid the sweatpants rut this 
winter with some stylish alternatives.
3
The Frame
First-year art students showcase their work 
with a variety of media. 
4
Dream On
Itals new album is a letdown compared to his 
past musical endeavors. 
5
Neil Gaiman
The British author celebrates the 15th 
anniversary of his novel Stardust in Pittsburgh.
6
Rubin Pfeffer
This Carnegie Mellon alumnus pursues an 
unexpected career as a literary agent.
7
Bhangra
The sixth annual Bhangra in the Burgh invades 
the city and stuns viewers. 
9
Bag Lunch
The School of Musics chamber music concert 
spices up a dreary Tuesday. 
10
Did You Know?
Did you know that 25 years ago, Mudge 
House sponsored a Sex Bowl?
10Comics
Check out Andrew Jackson nicknames and 
hardcore hipsters in Comics. 
13
Horoscopes
The stars checked out faster than you did. 
Find your future in this weeks Horoscopes.
14
Calendar
A look at the week ahead in arts, culture, and 
community.
15
War Horse
The Benedum Center production stuns viewers 
with impressive lighting and puppet design.
8

---------------------------------------------------

fashion
pillbox 11.19.123
Stay warm and cute this winter
How to fend off the cold without relying on sweatpants
As temperatures in Pittsburgh go down, the number 
of puffy winter jackets, sweats, and UGG boots 
seen on campus goes up. This is understandable; 
it is cold outside, after all. However, there are other 
clothing options out there that are both fashionable 
and comfortable, making it possible to save those 
sweats for a lazy day.
Sweater weather is better weather
An alternative to a sweatshirt is a stylish sweater. 
A chunky sweater worn with leggings, socks, and 
boots can make for a trendy outfit without giving 
up comfort. Layer a long-sleeved T-shirt under your 
chunky sweater on colder days for extra warmth. 
Recently, a post on the Seventeen magazine website 
introduced sweater trends for the winter; one of the 
trends discussed is the classic Fair Isle sweater. 
This pattern will be in style for every cold-weather 
season, so it is a better investment than a sweater 
that will only be wearable for a few months. If 
the Fair Isle sweater interests you, consider the 
Permafrost Tunic from Free People.
Another major trend is the colorblocked sweater. 
Colorblocking has been in style for quite a while 
now, so a sweater with colorblocking is a great 
way to make a transition into the colder months. 
Madewells Thermal Sweater in Colorblock Stripe 
would look stylish with jeans and boots.
The edgy look has also been in style for the past 
couple of months, causing studs in every shape and 
size to appear on shoes, clothing, and jewelry. What 
better way to follow this trend than with a sweater 
that has stud detailing? Give this trend a try with 
the Studded Denim Patch Jumper from Topshop. 
But be careful: Its important that the studs arent 
overdone.
Cardigans are versatile
Unlike other sweaters, cardigans can be worn 
with outfits that focus on a summer top or dress. 
However, they are similar to other types of sweaters 
in that they are warm  another layering staple. 
Longer cardigans look great when paired with 
dresses or skirts and tights. Shorter cardigans, in 
contrast, are better layered with a pretty shirt and a 
pair of jeans. Cardigans can also be found in the Fair 
Isle, colorblocked, and studded trends. Details on the 
backs of shirts are everywhere at the moment, so a 
cardigan with back detail, such as the Kimchi Blue 
Back-Stitch Cardigan from Urban Outfitters, is very 
trendy.
Leggings as pants?
No. As comfortable as leggings can be, they 
really are not meant to be worn as pants. For an 
alternative, invest in the J. Crew Pixie Pants. While 
just as comfortable, they are not as unforgiving as 
leggings, and are warmer as well. To mix things up 
and for added warmth, try the Sweater Leggings 
from Free People. While they may not be everyones 
taste, they can appear very stylish when paired 
correctly, such as with a tunic and short boots.
Accessories are a girls best friend
Layering scarves over outfits is the perfect way to 
tie a look together and stay warm. Infinity scarves 
are in style at the moment, so get one in a thicker 
knit for the colder weather. Want to keep your ears 
warm, but dislike hats? Opt for the Knotted Ear 
Warmer  basically a knitted headband  from 
Urban Outfitters. Layering knit socks under boots is 
another way to look fashionable in the winter.
Next time you want to settle for sweats, remember 
that there is a way to be warm and comfortable, but 
still look fashionable.
Nikita Mishra | Junior Staffwriter
Advice for awkward people
Dear Patrick,
I just bought Assassins 
Creed 3 and Halo 4. 
Theyre both awesome, 
but I cant decide which 
one to play! I have a job 
already, so I dont care 
about my classes or 
grades anymore. I can 
spend all my time playing. 
Thanks,
Must Ascertain Some 
Technical Entertainment 
Relatively Currently, 
Help Inform of Electronic 
Findings
Dear MASTER CHIEF,
You face the classic 
gamers dilemma. On 
the one hand, Assassins 
Creed offers an awesome 
single-player experience; 
you get to hang out with 
George Washington, 
kill redcoats, and hear 
Benjamin Franklins eightpoint dissertation on why 
sleeping with old women 
is best. On the other hand, 
Halo 4 is another Halo 
game. Enough said.
All you need to remember 
is that Assassins Creed is 
all about the single player, 
while Halo is all about 
multiple players. Play 
Assassins Creed 3 when 
youre by yourself  during 
the day, when everyones 
going to class and youre 
skipping  and save Halo 
for when your friends are 
over. Also, you might want 
to consider going to class. 
Graduating is probably a 
condition of that job offer.
At least youll have games 
to play when youre 
unemployed,
Patrick Hoskins
Dear Patrick,
All my friends keep 
trying to get me to hit on 
women at bars, but I am 
so terrible at it that I wind 
up embarrassing myself. 
The last time I tried I 
just stood next to her at 
the bar for five minutes 
before walking away. 
What tips can you offer?
Thanks,
Sexy People Evade Eager 
Conversation, Hopelessly 
Lost Engaging Sensuous 
Seoritas
Dear SPEECHLESS,
The key is to pick off the 
weakest one from the 
herd. Essentially, if theres 
a group of women sitting 
at the bar, dont go for one 
in the middle; instead, talk 
to a girl on the edges. Its 
harder for her to block you 
out that way.
Once youve managed 
to pick off a girl, tradition 
dictates that you offer 
to buy her a drink as the 
price of her conversation. 
Instead, take a step for 
gender equality and ask her 
to buy you a drink. If shes 
a true third-wave feminist, 
shell happily comply. Once 
youve successfully made 
conversation, your friends 
cant make fun of you, 
since they were probably 
trying to egg you on, or 
theyre just nice wingmen.
Or just try talking to a 
girl at literally any other 
place,
Patrick Hoskins
Need advice? Send queries 
to advice@thetartan.org.
About gaming and getting the girl
Jonathan Carreon | Photo Editor
First-year directing major Dillon Stark pairs a 
leather jacket with a flannel shirt and tank for a 
warm, layered look.

---------------------------------------------------

4art
pillbox 11.19.12
Have you ever wondered just how much information 
someone knows about you? Have you thought about 
what the inner workings of your brain would look like 
mapped out?
First-year students from Concept Studio I courses in the 
School of Art  taught by art professor Lowry Burgess 
and associate professor of art Andrew Johnson  
joined together to respond to these questions through 
visual art. Displaying their work at The Frame Gallery, 
the artists utilized a variety of media  including 
photography, ?lm, audio, and paint  to create a diverse 
set of ?nal products. The exhibit opened this Friday, 
and features pieces ranging from a hamster wheel to a 
pamphlet that asks disconcerting personal questions.
Students taking the course with Burgess illustrate how 
their minds operate in an exhibit titled Mind Map. In 
her piece Mind Maze, ?rst-year ?ne art major Nivetha 
Kannan describes her brain as a complicated labyrinth 
that is in?uenced by those who surround her. 
She encourages viewers at the gallery to metaphorically 
play with her mind by dropping marbles into a slanted 
maze with various ?nal destinations at the bottom, 
similar to a Plinko Board. Like other pieces at the exhibit, 
Kannans work is interactive and, in turn, stimulates 
internal re?ections.
Meanwhile, Johnsons students produced works 
for the exhibit titled Big Brother, Where Art Thou?, 
which explores surveillance and human observation. 
In her piece Relational Barriers, ?rst-year ?ne art 
major Carolina Vogt explained that intimate relations 
are barred by three things: words, the knowledge 
of someones past, and prevailing dispositions or 
tendencies. 
I was focusing on exposing things that should be 
hidden, and then I got into this idea of human relations 
and what stops you from having a very intimate relation 
with someone, Vogt said.
To depict the barrier of language, Vogt transcribed a 
letter written by her mother multiple times and realized 
that she did not understand the meaning of the words, 
no matter how many times she transcribed it. Her 
transcribed letters are on display next to a transparent 
surface with three dates embroidered upon it. The dates 
represent three important points in Vogts life. 
Vogt also created a door covered in pictures that 
portray her own disposition  the way she looks and 
acts when she is alone. All three facets of her piece are 
displayed with transparent materials to show how easily 
someone can learn about a person through elements of 
surveillance.
When experienced as a whole, the gallery effectively 
exudes the uneasiness people feel when they are being 
watched, as well as the quirkiness of the inner workings 
of the brain.
However, with no clear division between Mind Map and 
Big Brother, Where Art Thou?, it is often confusing to 
keep track of which concept the pieces are responding 
to. That said, the space is used effectively to ensure that 
the eye never stops moving from one visually interesting 
work to the next.
The gallery is only open until Saturday, so before leaving 
Pittsburgh for Thanksgiving break, take the time to 
experience the work of the talented students fostered 
in the College of Fine Arts. As ?rst-year art major Emily 
Miller said to those invited to the opening, Be a Vincent 
van Bro and Gogh.
Braden Kelner | Staffwriter
Braden Kelner | Junior Photographer
A giant, brightly colored hamster wheel is among the 
innovations of first-year students in the School of Art 
currently on display at The Frame Gallery.
First-years create, innovate at The Frame
Art from students in Concepts Studio I examines the human brain and surveillance 
First-year fine art major Nivetha Kannans Mind 
Maze represents the artists brain as a labyrinth.
Braden Kelner | Junior Photographer

---------------------------------------------------

music
pillbox 11.19.125
Itals Dream On strikes unpleasant chord
Daniel Martin-McCormicks newest album presents cacophony of abrasive sounds
Knife-edge snares, buzzsaw drones, and panic-ridden 
vocals are the sounds that greet listeners of Itals newest 
album, Dream On. The Nov. 5 release is the second 
this year from Brooklyns Daniel Martin-McCormick, 
following his debut with Hive Mind in February.
Itals newest album, however, represents a dramatic 
departure from his previous work. While his penchant 
for distorted tech-noise and layered pop vocals has 
carried over in many of his songs, Dream On is primarily 
experimental, employing grotesque, abrasive sounds 
that do not resemble the joyful electronic tropes in 
previous songs like Doesnt Matter or Culture Club. 
While some tracks, such as the opener Despot, fall into 
percussive house loops, the respite is never long, quickly 
turning to cascades of abrasive feedback and swells of 
?anged synths.
The song What A Mess most distinguishes the albums 
atmosphere. It is ?lled with the distorted pleas of a 
woman asking Oklahoma Senator Tom Coburn what he 
can do to help her uninsured husband, who has suffered 
a traumatic brain injury. Not only is the sample haunting 
in and of itself, but Martin-McCormick mutilates it so 
that it is heavily multitracked and has reverberative 
effects, ?nally smothered entirely by a dense organ 
chord. This unsettling theme is echoed in Enrique 
and Eat Shit, both of which begin with white noise 
and increasingly layer in discordant electronic samples. 
There is neither an apparent melody or an arcing 
structure or rhythm. The climax of both songs is a heavy 
shroud of pulsing drones, lasers, and skittering hi-hats.
While Martin-McCormicks intention may have been 
to create postmodern house tracks reminiscent of the 
experimental dub-punk he produced under the moniker 
Sex Worker, the result is almost too horri?c. Hive Mind, 
while still experimental, was not saturated with the 
heavy samples that overwhelm many of the songs in 
Dream On. Although Martin-McCormick is imaginative 
in his pairing of seemingly antagonistic sounds  
such as jungle drum beats with metallic-sounding 
lasers  there are simply too many accessory noises. 
Unless people are actively listening, there is not enough 
structure to keep listeners attention for the entirety of 
the album.
The only song that seems to rise above this cacophony 
is Boi, a catchy, hip-hop-inspired house beat that 
thrives on thick drums, toms, and claps. The entire track 
is built around a vocal snippet from Beyoncs hit Baby 
Boy; though the reference is almost indiscernible within 
the mangled synths woven into the fabric of the song, 
there are remnants of subtle, deeply submerged melodic 
touches that produce a much-needed dance-?oor vibe 
absent from the rest of the album.
Because Dream On persistently falls between rhythmic 
discipline and willful subversion, it is limited as a 
musical ensemble. While it has its moments, Itals 
newest release ultimately lacks the consistency and 
euphoria to be considered a dance album, yet is too 
intrusive to be played as background music. It is surely 
interesting as a study of experimental post-house 
grotesquerie, but Martin-McCormicks notion of groove 
and abrasion do not work in parallel. Perhaps Ital is 
better suited to the features of his past studio efforts: 
clean, contained, and controlled.
Chloe Lula | Junior Staffwriter
Courtesy of macskapocs via Flickr
Itals newest album unsuccessfully experiments with 
abrasive and discordant elements.

---------------------------------------------------

6literature
pillbox 11.19.12
Fans of graphic novels, fantasy movies, and the 
television series Doctor Who all poured into Carnegie 
Music Hall on Wednesday evening. Despite being fans 
of varying artistic mediums, they all had one thing in 
common: Their favorite pieces were written by British 
author Neil Gaiman, famous for such works as Coraline, 
American Gods, and The Sandman comic book series.
Gaiman visited Pittsburgh to present An Evening 
of Stardust, celebrating the 15th anniversary of his 
award-winning novel Stardust. The talk was organized 
by Pittsburgh Arts & Lectures, which proudly hosted 
Gaiman for his ?rst-ever public appearance in 
Pittsburgh. In fact, it was the only city he visited on 
his one-destination tour, making this night even more 
special for local fans.
Gaiman had a captivating presence on stage. Members 
of the audience leaned forward to get a glimpse of 
him from the top balcony, and the room was silently 
quivering with excitement as everyone hung onto 
every word he said. His live reading from Stardust 
still captivated listeners, even though most of them 
had probably already read the book or seen the movie 
adaptation. It was clear that Gaiman is a natural 
storyteller  both on paper and in person.
It was also evident that Gaimans creative ideas for his 
fantasy works were not carefully plotted out, but were 
rather the result of the bizarre turns his imagination 
would take. The creative process behind his fantasy 
novel Stardust was beautifully simplistic: Gaiman 
explained how he wrote it in longhand, using a fountain 
pen, to emulate the 20s vibe he wanted the novel to 
have.
He described the night the idea for Stardust was 
conceived: He saw a shooting star and wondered, What 
if I found the shooting star and it was a great glowing 
diamond? After a long pause, he said matter-of-factly, 
Or what if it was a girl with a broken leg? Because 
thats how my mind works. The audience erupted into 
laughter at how such a brilliant idea for a book could 
arise so simply.
Gaimans gift for storytelling became even clearer when 
he read from his upcoming book to be released on 
June 18. The Ocean at the End of the Lane is Gaimans 
latest work of ?ction, in which a seven-year-old boy 
?nds a dead opal miner in the trunk of a car, prompting 
a strange series of events. Gaiman revealed that this 
work is a particularly personal novel; the Hempstock 
family in the novel had been brewing in his mind since 
childhood.
He was genuinely relieved by the booming round of 
applause that followed his reading, explaining that he 
had been nervous to see the audiences reaction. This 
kind of behavior made Gaiman seem down-to-earth and 
relatable  far from pretentious. At one point, he took a 
moment to pause and admire the twinkly light display 
behind him, entranced by the star-like effect.
In one self-deprecating and hilarious anecdote, Gaiman 
explained how as a child he was awful at sports because 
he would get distracted  only to be rudely awoken 
when a ball smacked him on the head. The audience 
was in hysterics as Gaiman shared this humbling story; 
no doubt many of the creative minds in attendance 
could relate.
The ?oor was then opened up for questions from the 
audience. Several guests bugged Gaiman for details on 
his upcoming Doctor Who episode; he wrote an awardwinning episode of the British television show last year. 
Gaiman boasted that he would make the Cybermen 
(robotic Doctor Who villains) scary again. The author also 
touched on the topics of female roles in fantasy ?ction, 
saying that he believes they are more prominent now 
than in the past. He joked, You could shoot a machine 
gun at random through the pages of The Lord of the 
Rings and never hit a woman.
Gaiman ended the night saying, If your question is how 
do you ?nd magic, how do you ?nd adventure? You go 
out, and you make it. And you make it for other people. 
With all the magic Gaiman has given his fans over 
the years, and with the magic he brought to the stage 
that evening, this thought certainly resonated with his 
audience.
Gabriela Pascuzzi | Staffwriter
An Evening of Stardust enchants audience
Author Neil Gaiman presents an inspiring evening lecture at Carnegie Music Hall 
Courtesy of Jutta via Flickr
Neil Gaiman is the author of acclaimed fantasy novel Stardust and two episodes of Doctor Who. The British writer 
made a special appearance at the Carnegie Music Hall in Oakland on Wednesday to the excitement of local fans. 
Courtesy of cdrummbks via Flickr
Neil Gaiman read from his fantasy novel Stardust 
during his Wednesday lecture.

---------------------------------------------------

literature
pillbox 11.19.127
During his time at Carnegie Mellon, literary agent Rubin 
Pfeffer (CFA 74) never imagined being immersed in 
the publishing world. But Pfeffer is now a partner at 
East West Literary Agency, an agency specializing in 
childrens and young adult literature, where he brokers 
deals for clients who want to publish their manuscripts.
Pfeffers career path did not unfold overnight. When 
he graduated with a degree in graphic design, he was 
hired by publishing house Harcourt Brace Jovanovich 
as a designer. Although he was engaged as an artist 
for Harcourt, he was attracted to the larger world of 
publishing. His fascination with the strategic role of 
design in the publishing business brought him into all 
aspects of the business  editing, sales, rights, and 
marketing.
Pfeffer eventually worked his way up to becoming the 
president of Harcourt. He spent close to 30 years there 
before working as chief creative of?cer for Pearson 
Education, a publisher of textbooks and trade books. In 
2005, Pfeffer was hired by publisher Simon & Schuster to 
be senior vice president of the childrens books section. 
He stayed at Simon & Schuster for four years before 
becoming a consultant for various media groups and 
opening up the Boston of?ce of the East West Literary 
Agency in 2010.
With a career of more than 35 years in the publishing 
industry, Pfeffer can now speak with authority on the 
qualities of good writing. Great literature is one that 
stands the test of time, he said.
The Napping House, a childrens picture book about a 
house full of sleeping animals and a granny, is still being 
read through the generations after Pfeffer ?rst published 
it in 1984. The book was illustrated and written by Don 
and Audrey Wood, a husband and wife team, and is still 
in print.
We are often given credit for helping to raise the bar 
in childrens illustration, and Rubin de?nitely had his 
shoulder under one end of that bar, Don Wood said via 
email. The lesson Rubin taught me was now ingrained. 
Pull out all stops, go for it. There is no such thing as just 
a childrens book. 
Not every writer will be as successful as the Woods were, 
but there are principles all writers can adopt, Pfeffer said. 
One thing that writers can learn is writing for different 
audiences, he explained, citing late childrens author 
Maurice Sendak as an example. Where the Wild Things 
Are, Sendaks seminal work, is memorable in its ability to 
explore complex, mature issues for young readers. This 
book still resonates with these same readers as adults, 
who in turn share the book with their own children.
To be a best-selling childrens book author, a writer must 
deliver content that resonates with readers emotionally. 
Great childrens writing is innovative and fresh, Pfeffer 
said. It has memorable characters and tells an exciting 
story.
One of Pfeffers responsibilities as a literary agent is 
providing his clients with information on the publishing 
industry. The purpose of the publishing industry is to 
sell books: Its a business. Cover designs, reviews, and 
marketing tactics are all part of turning a pro?t, even on 
the childrens writing level, and agents must explain this 
to clients.
Writing is very special and the process is personal 
to each writer, Pfeffer said. An agent must be 
straightforward with clients and deliver encouragement 
and feedback, even if it isnt what the client wants 
to hear. At East West, he brings his knowledge of 
publishing and his experience with high-pro?le clientele. 
In his career, he has worked with Alice Walker (The Color 
Purple) and Umberto Eco (The Name of the Rose).
One of Pfeffers clients is Patricia MacLachlan, author of 
Sarah, Plain and Tall. The book tells the story of a family 
living on the American prairie, awaiting the arrival of 
the fathers new wife. The novel was adapted into a 
screenplay starring Christopher Walken and Glenn Close, 
and received a host of awards, including a Newbery 
Medal.
The qualities of Rubins I most admire are these  he 
is incredibly ethical, MacLachlan said via email. He 
takes care of my business life in a very honest and 
straightforward manner. In truth, he takes care of my 
writing life in the same way, coupled with sensitivity 
to me as a writer dealing with the changing world of 
publishing. He knows me well, and very kindly points out 
the pieces of mine that dont work as they are written. 
He is inspiring and supportive and has helped my career 
in huge ways. And on a more personal level, my entire 
family considers Rubin a close and trusted friend.
Everything Pfeffer knows about the publishing industry 
came from experience. He recommends that students 
seeking experience in the publishing industry read 
voraciously and consider internships at publishing 
houses and literary agencies.
And for aspiring writers out there, Pfeffer said that 
writing from the heart is what matters most: Write what 
you know and feel. If its a good story, it will connect 
with people and affect them.
Jamar Thrasher | Junior Staffwriter
From CFA to literary agency: Rubin Pfeffer
Alumnus graphic design degree unexpectedly leads to ful?lling publishing career

---------------------------------------------------

8theater
pillbox 11.19.12
Explosions, slow motion, and battle scenes: These are 
elements one would expect to see in a high-budget 
action movie rather than on a stage. But last weeks 
National Theatre of Great Britain production of War 
Horse at the Benedum Center in Downtown pulled it off 
to great visual success  without CGI.
The production was infused with so many cinematic 
elements; it was hard to believe that the play preceded 
the Stephen Spielberg ?lm adaptation. The set was 
minimal, aside from what looked like a torn white strip 
of paper that stretched across the back of the stage. On 
this white strip, moving projections of the landscape 
gave the audience a sense of place and movement and 
seemed to tread into cinematic territory.
War Horse follows the story of English farm boy Albert 
(Andrew Veenstra) and his horse, Joey. When World War 
I breaks out, the two are separated, and the rest of the 
play follows Albert on his struggle to be reunited with his 
beloved horse.
In terms of plot, those who had seen the ?lm were at a 
clear advantage. It was often dif?cult to follow Joey and 
Albert through their disjointed wartime misfortunes, 
with little to connect the events of the drama except 
the characters themselves. Within the same two hours, 
the storyline jumps from Alberts con?ict with his 
drunken coward of a father (Brian Keane) to a German 
captain (Andrew May)s decision to desert his troops. 
All the while, the heavy Cockney and German accents 
often muddled the dialogue, making it even harder to 
understand what was going on.
But the stunning visual elements of the play outweighed 
any plot shortcomings. The horses themselves were 
easily the most breathtaking part of the show. The 
Handspring Puppet Company built intricate, life-sized 
mechanisms for the show that very closely replicated the 
appearance and movements of horses, from the twitch of 
their ears to their galloping legs.
Various cast members guided these movements from 
inside and around the shell of the horse mechanism, 
and their moves were choreographed by director of 
movement and horse choreography Toby Sedgwick. In 
one particularly impressive ?ght scene, Joey and another 
horse face off in an aggressive dance of sorts; it was 
remarkable how seamlessly the cast members were able 
to step and leap in unison.
The animals were so lifelike that they even provided 
comic relief throughout the play. Gestures so simple as 
a sassy ?ick of Joeys tail had the audience in stitches, 
and Alberts family goose evoked hoots of laughter as 
it wheeled across the stage, frantically honking and 
?ailing its wings. Most viewers probably would never 
have guessed that puppets, if designed right, could be 
so expressive.
In addition to the impressive puppet design, the 
production made great use of lighting, sound, and 
movement. The war-front setting for the majority of 
the play required a lot of creativity when it came to the 
visuals. In one battle scene, a violent explosion threw a 
cavalry of?cer from his horse: With the ?ashing, strobelike lights and the use of slow motion as stage crew 
members carried the of?cer offstage, the audience was 
able to imagine the vivid scene.
Despite the impressive visuals, the production certainly 
wasnt as sharply realistic as an action movie  but it 
gave the audience a challenge that few of todays ?lms 
present anymore. Modern action movies do all of the 
imagining for us with their computer-generated displays 
of explosions and gore. It was incredible how much the 
directors of War Horse were able to pull off with such 
limited technology  but even the less realistic or 
believable elements had artistic merit of their own.
Rachel Cohen | Pillbox Editor 
War Horse wows with puppets, lighting
Visually impressive, remarkably ?lm-like production redeems plays disjointed plot
War Horse relies heavily on puppets to portray the animals in the story. Puppets such as the one pictured above, 
designed by Handspring Puppet Company, are unexpectedly expressive and lifelike and contribute to the stunning 
visuals of the production. 
                 Courtesy of LindaH via Flickr

---------------------------------------------------

community
pillbox 11.19.129
The pulse of drums, Indian rhythms, and techno beats 
?lled the air of the Soldiers and Sailors Memorial Hall this 
past Saturday for the sixth annual Bhangra in the Burgh 
competition. Nearly 2,500 people ?lled the space to 
watch bhangra teams from across North America dance 
to win.
The event was highly anticipated, as its organizers had 
been advertising and tabling for over a month before 
the competiton. The planning process for BIB6 began 
before the academic year with countless man hours 
being spent on the event. The level of organization was 
very impressive, said ?rst-year statistics major and 
operations committee member Vinay Viswanathan.
The competition showcased eight bhangra teams, 
each of which was introduced with a video that gave 
a preview of the teams members and core values. 
The competing teams were: First Class Bhangra, UVA 
Di Shaan, Virginia Tech Bhangra, Cal Bhangra, GMU 
Bhangra, Toronto Allstar Girls, Cornell Bhangra, and UNC 
Bhangra Elite.
Each team brought great talent to the stage, making for 
an impressive, powerful event that kept the audience 
pumped. Whenever a team was announced, the yells and 
cheers of that teams fans could be heard loud and clear. 
But despite the competition, the atmosphere remained 
friendly; the teams recognized that they were not only 
competing against each other, but also promoting the 
art of bhangra, and were supportive and respectful of the 
other teams.
The show included other non-bhangra dance groups, 
as well as Carnegie Mellons own South Asian all-male 
a cappella group, Deewane. Carnegie Mellons Tanah 
and DS Company and Point Park Universitys Impulse 
provided a look into the world of hip-hop and artistic 
dance, a good change of pace from the competitive 
bhangra.
When Carnegie Mellons bhangra team took the stage, 
the excitement in the air was palpable: This was 
what many had come for. The team staged a lively 
performance, which was made even more exciting when 
all of the nonperforming members and alumni, dressed 
in bhangra team jackets, joined the performers on stage. 
With the stage ?lled, Carnegie Mellon Bhangra provided 
a passionate ending to the evening.
Comedian Dan Nainan kept the energy up by amusing 
the audience between acts. Although Nainans sense of 
humor occasionally leaned toward the racially offensive, 
his charm and wit were effective in transitioning from 
act to act.
The show ran smoothly with few technical glitches. 
The colorful lighting and the loud pulse of the music 
made the event feel more like a concert than a dance 
competition. During admission, audience members were 
able to keep themselves fueled for the excitement of the 
second half by purchasing inexpensive samosas.
There were ?ve judges for the event, but audience 
members could also vote for their favorite team to win 
the Peoples Choice Award by voting on the events 
webpage. Unfortunately, by the time the results were 
announced, many people in the audience had already 
left. Cal Bhangra, Cornell Bhangra, and the Toronto 
Allstar Girls took the ?rst, second, and third spots 
respectively, while UNC Bhangra Elite took the Peoples 
Choice Award.
All proceeds of Bhangra in the Burgh 6 went to Variety 
the Childrens Charity of Pittsburgh, which provides 
custom bicycles for disabled children. Charles LaVallee, 
a member of the Variety team and a Carnegie Mellon 
graduate, showed a video of a mentally disabled man 
?rst learning to ride a bike. He discussed how important 
something as simple as learning to ride can be for both 
kids and their families. His speech served as a reminder 
that nothing should be taken for granted.
Overall, the event was an enlightening and enjoyable 
cultural experience. I came out wanting to do Bhangra. 
Id de?nitely go again next year, said ?rst-year biology 
major Myriam Bejjani.
Abby Smith | Assistant Sports Editor
File photo by Jessica Sochol | Staff Photographer
Cornell Bhangra took second place at Saturday nights Bhangra in the Burgh. The team was one of eight bhangra groups that competed in the event. Above, members are 
pictured performing at last years Bhangra in the Burgh.
Bhangra in the Burgh sweeps the city
For its sixth year, the Indian dance competition draws a huge crowd to Soldiers and Sailors

---------------------------------------------------

10music
pillbox 11.19.12
Theres something about free classical music on a 
cold day that warms the heart and feeds the soul, 
and thats exactly what the School of Music did on 
Tuesday with its chamber music concert.
No one said a word as the concert began, which 
somehow seemed appropriate. The lack of chatter 
allowed listeners to put the spoken word to rest for 
a few minutes and concentrate on nothing but the 
sweet notes of ageless classics.
The concert, which featured three quartets, was 
nothing less than perfection. The opening piece, 
Quatuor Concertant, composed by Vincenzo 
Gambaro, was a woodwind quartet composed of 
masters student in French horn performance Jackie 
Perez, masters student in bassoon performance 
Hyunwook Bae, sophomore ?ute performance major 
Michal Zeleny, and masters student in clarinet 
performance Charlotte Kies.
Zelenys playing was energetic yet controlled, and 
served as the groups glue, for the second movement 
especially. With sharp, crisp notes, the ?utes lead 
was ?uid and strong. Later in the piece, the clarinet 
and bassoon took over this melody in a charming 
duet that was wholesome and calming, contributing 
to the overall impression of the ?rst piece.
In the middle was Mozart, and where theres 
Wolfgang Amadeus, theres never disappointment. 
Masters student in violin performance John Kruer, 
senior violin performance major Kashi Elliot, masters 
viola performance major Sooyi Kang, and masters 
cello performance major Sarah Lee presented String 
Quartet No. 15 in D Minor.
The quartet may as well have been dancing on their 
instruments. The piece was wonderfully Wolfgang, 
with magni?cent crescendos at all the right points. 
It featured balanced tones and voices, blending for a 
perfectly paced Allegro and a full-bodied orchestral 
sound from just four instruments mastered by some 
serious players.
The best piece, Joseph Haydns Op. 76 No. 5 
in D major, was performed last by the Starling 
String Quartet. The piece was a surprise, spirited 
enough to surpass the Mozart that preceded it. 
The performers  Artists Certi?cate student in 
violin performance Erica Richardson, senior violin 
performance major Erica Hudson, Artists Certi?cate 
student in viola performance Ai-Wen Thian, and 
Marlene Ballena, a cello player in the Performance 
Residency Program  possessed a true synchronous 
energy, moving, playing, and even seeming to 
breathe as one.
The Allegretto ?rst movement was bright, ?owery, 
and cheerful, rising and soaring without ever 
seeming to come down from its ecstatic heights. 
Even the slower second movement still had an 
undeniable pulse of energy  albeit more relaxed 
and full  and featured unexpected viola and cello 
solos that were powerfully executed.
The ?nal movement, Finale Presto, was the crme 
de la crme. From the striking ?rst note through the 
runs of musical harmony that positively cavorted 
through the rest of the movement, the piece 
was purely stunning. The entire movement was 
energetic, upbeat, and inspiring: a perfect end to a 
perfect concert.
The massively unattended concert, which took place 
in McConomy Auditorium, rede?ned the phrase 
intimate affair: There were fewer than ?ve people 
in the audience. This is a tragic example of how the 
relaxing power of classical music is underestimated 
today. Classical music is often regarded as aged 
and outdated, when in actuality, its as relevant and 
culturally enriching as it was during the century in 
which it was written.
Next time theres a chill in the air, wander over to 
the School of Music and let the magic begin.
Laura Scherb | Assistant Pillbox Editor
Bag lunch concert shines
School of Music presents midweek chamber music
Members of the Starling String Quartet look on 
as their colleagues perform Gambaros Quatour 
Concertant.
Jonathan Carreon | Photo Editor
Catherine Spence | Staffwriter
Did you know?
100years ago
Dec. 5, 1912
The Tartan claims that there are 4,856 
international students at U.S. colleges 
for the 191112 school year. Sample 
statistics include 549 students from 
China, 415 from Japan, 123 from the 
Philippines, and 21 from Korea. Its 
crazy to imagine, since over 1,000 
international students make up todays 
demographics at Carnegie Mellon.
50years ago
Dec. 12, 1962
An anonymous gift of $175,000 will go 
toward finishing the fourth floor of Hunt 
Library. The new floor will be a haven 
for College of Fine Arts equipment, 
including a state-of-the-art music 
listening facility. Hopefully, the library 
staff of the 60s had better luck with 
renovations than the current staff.
25years ago
Nov. 17, 1987
The Sex Bowl, sponsored by Mudge 
house, names Hamerschlag 3A 
the winner in the single elimination 
tournament. One question  How 
far can a guy ejaculate?  was 
correctly answered by participant Mike 
Peters as several feet  I know from 
personal experience. 
10years ago
Nov. 18, 2002
The pilot StuCo program lost 83 out 
of 206 students in its first semester, 
thought to be because each class only 
earns students one credit, but takes 
up a lot of time. A noteworthy course 
no longer offered: Home Beer Brewing. 
Who decided it would be a good idea 
to let that class go?
5years ago
Nov. 19, 2007
College tours should focus less on 
the mundane and more on the unique 
aspects of a college, argues a Forum 
writer. Tour guides should spend more 
time talking about the Fence, Carnival, 
and our mascot the Scottie dog  
less about interlibrary loans with the 
University of Pittsburgh.
1year ago
Nov. 14, 2011
Two creative writing students are 
awarded the Charles C. Dawe 
Memorial Award, a fund for creating 
literary journals. The women designed 
and released the Print Oriented 
Bastards with hopes of creating a little 
black book to inspire writers.

---------------------------------------------------

puzzles
pillbox 11.19.1211
Solutions from Nov. 12, 2012
CrosswordMedium DifficultyEasy Difficulty
Kakuro Puzzle: Hard Difficulty Sudoku Puzzle: Very Hard Difficulty
Sudoku courtesy of www.opensky.ca/~jdhildeb/software/
sudokugen/
Kakuro courtesy of www.krazydad.com/kakuro
Fill all empty squares using numbers 1 to 9 so the sum of 
each row equals the clue on its left, and the sum of each 
column equals the clue on its top. No number may be used 
in the same row or column more than once.

---------------------------------------------------

12comics
pillbox 11.19.12
Stick Cats #11 by Nick Marino 
  Online at www.nickmarino.netnickmarino@gmail.com
Hark, a Vagrant by Kate Beaton
kathrynmoira@gmail.com
Vintage by Reza Farazmand
Online at www.poorlydrawnlines.com

---------------------------------------------------

comics
pillbox 11.19.1213
Like us on Facebook 
and be entered to win 
a Finals Survival Prize 
pack! Once we reach 
600 likes, we will have 
a drawing to give away 
a gift basket filled with 
everything you need 
to get through the 
happiest time of the 
year.
Contest ends Dec. 1!
Like
on
PhD Comics by Jorge Cham
jorge@phdcomics.com
Deciding What To Eat by Doghouse Diaries
doghousediaries@gmail.com

---------------------------------------------------

14horoscopes
pillbox 11.19.12
1. Stagnant
2. Female demon
3. Shady recess
4. Principal highway
5. Concorde, e.g.
6. Glasses, briefly
7. Not fem.
8. Director Preminger
9. Monstrous
10. Some mattresses
11. Pertaining to bees
12. Had in mind
13. Basil-based sauce
21. ___ see it...
22. Pianist Peter
24. Green prefix
27. Insect stage
28. Nick and Noras pooch
29. Simile center
30. Long March leader
31. Unwell
32. Beef cut
33. Not him
34. Month after avril
35. Corrida cry
37. At whatever time
38. Military cafeteria
40. Ladies of Sp.
41. Its bottled in Cannes
42. In the thick of
43. Its not PC
44. Circus employee
45. The end of _____
46. Stigma
47. Cassette half
48. Oohed and _____
49. Tomb
50. Conger catcher
52. Galileos birthplace
53. Actress Harper
57. Fannie ___
1. Bridge feats
6. Problem with L.A.
10. Coarsely ground corn
14. Gogols _____Bulba
15. Route
16. Blunted blade
17. Circumference
18. This, in Tijuana
19. Narrow inlets
20. Large cat
21. Person skilled in accounting
23. Like harp seals
25. Simple shed
26. Henris here
27. Dens
29. Acid type
32. Cowboys tool
33. Med. care option
36. Cut-price retail event
37. Value
38. Repast
39. Youve got mail co.
40. The Hindu Destroyer
41. Spine-tingling
42. Concert venue
43. Barker and Bell
44. Dutch navigator
47. Wurst
51. Free from germs
54. Fabled loser
55. Alcoholic drink of fermented 
honey
56. Competed
57. Taj _____
58. Goddess and sister of Ares in 
Greek mythology
59. ____ quam videri (North 
Carolinas motto)
60. Advil rival
61. Tirade
62. Tabula ____
63. Like some statesmen
ACROSSDOWN
Horoscopes
aries
march 21april 19
You may have a lot of work that you could be catching up 
on during your Thanksgiving break, but you will squander 
that time with stupid television shows and movies. Time 
well spent.
taurus
april 20may 20
You are an adult, so no matter how hard your parents try 
to baby you this week, you must resist. Dont give up your 
freedom and independence just for a home-cooked meal.
gemini
may 21june 21
When you go for seconds and someone calls you greedy, 
remember that Gemini is a twin so you are technically 
eating for two.
cancer
june 22july 22
If you are going home for Thanksgiving, remember to pack 
your sweatpants, or at least a nice outfit that has lots of 
elastic in it.
leo
july 23aug. 22 
If one studies too zealously, one easily loses his pants.   
Albert Einstein
virgo
aug. 23sept. 22
Three important words to remember: Dont. Forget. 
Tupperware.
libra
sept. 23oct. 22
Please sleep this week. You really, really need it.
scorpio
oct. 23nov. 21
Your year has been a bit rocky, to say the least. Take this 
week to clear your mind and repair your wounds, because 
when school starts again, the real fight begins.
sagittarius
nov. 22dec. 21
I hope youre sitting down, because your future is a little 
bleak. Im sorry to tell you this, but none of your football 
teams will win this Thanksgiving. Stay strong.
capricorn
dec. 22jan. 19
There is no what should be, there is only what is.  
Lenny Bruce
aquarius
jan. 20feb. 18
The semester is almost over. Have you made the most of 
it?
pisces
feb. 19march 20
I know it seems like a good idea, but trust me, dont do it.
Nicole Hamilton | Comics Editor
Crossword courtesy of BestCrosswords.com

---------------------------------------------------

calendar
pillbox 11.19.1215
MONDAY11.19.12
Ta Obreht lecture. Carnegie Music Hall. 7:30 p.m.
Author of best-selling novel The Tigers Wife, Ta Obreht 
will speak at Carnegie Music Hall in Oakland as part of 
the Monday Night Lecture Series presented by Pittsburgh 
Arts & Lectures. Tickets and more information are 
available at pittsburghlectures.org.
TUESDAY11.20.12
Steel City Poetry Slam. Shadow Lounge. 9 p.m.
Its the third Tuesday of the month, which means the 
Shadow Lounge is hosting its monthly poetry slam. Come 
read your original work; the top three poets will represent 
Team Pittsburgh and compete at the National Poetry 
Slam. The event is 18+ and there is a $5 cover charge.
WEDNESDAY11.21.12
B.B. King. Benedum Center. 7:30 p.m.
World-renowned blues singer, songwriter, and guitarist 
B.B. King will perform at the Benedum Center in 
Downtown. More information and tickets are available at 
trustarts.org.
PunK FunK KraK AttacK Throwdown. brillobox. 
10 p.m.
Brillobox is hosting a Thanksgiving Eve dance party 
featuring J. Malls and special guest DJ CX KiDTRONiK.
FRIDAY11.23.12
Honeck & A Waltz Tradition. Heinz Hall. 8 p.m.
Conductor Manfred Honeck celebrates Thanksgiving 
with a concert featuring Ludwig van Beethovens Piano 
Concerto No. 5  nicknamed Emperor  and the 
Strauss familys Waltzes and Polkas. Grammy-winning 
pianist Ye?m Bronfman will perform the Beethoven. The 
concert will also show on Saturday at 8 p.m. and on 
Sunday at 2:30 p.m. More information can be found at  
pittsburghsymphony.org.
Obvious presents: Kastle. Belvederes Ultra Dive 
(4016 Butler St.). 9 p.m.
Pittsburgh electronic music collective Obvious presents 
Kastle, a DJ who fuses hip-hop, R&B, and dubstep.
SATURDAY11.24.12
MONDO! Cabaret at Theater Square (655 Penn Ave.). 
10:30 p.m.
Writer, performer, and comedian Sean Collier of the 
WDVE morning show will host this months MONDO!, an 
improvised comedy show in which the host shares reallife stories. More information and tickets are available at 
trustarts.org.
ONGOING
Portraits of a Garden, Brooklyn Botanic Garden 
Florilegium. Hunt Institute for Botanical Documentation, 
Hunt Library, Fifth Floor. Through Dec. 16.
The exhibit showcases work from 48 American botanical 
artists who are creating an archive of watercolors and 
drawings of the plants at the Brooklyn Botanic Garden. 
The selected pieces will be displayed with historical 
printed volumes from the Hunt Institutes collection. The 
gallerys operating hours are available at huntbot.andrew.
cmu.edu.
White Cube, Green Maze. Carnegie Museum of Art. 
Through Jan. 13.
The exhibit includes models and drawings by architects 
and landscape architects who have worked on 
collaborative projects, focusing on six sites from around 
the world: the Olympic Sculpture Park (U.S.), Stiftung 
Insel Hombroich (Germany), Benesse Art Site Naoshima 
(Japan), Instituto Inhotim (Brazil), Jardn Botnico de 
Culiacn (Mexico), and Grand Traiano Art Complex (Italy).
Inventing the Modern World: Decorative Arts at the 
Worlds Fairs, 18511939. Carnegie Museum of Art. 
Through Feb. 24.
This exhibit features works ranging from jewelry to 
furniture that showcase changing tastes in aesthetics and 
design within the span of nearly nine decades.
Feminist and...The Mattress Factory. Through May 26.
This exhibit features works by six female artists from 
around the world, aiming to show that feminism is a 
multivocal, multigenerational, and multicultural movement, 
not a single-issue set of political beliefs. The exhibit is 
guest-curated by Carnegie Mellon professor of art theory 
and criticism Hilary Robinson.
Compiled by Allison Cosby | Staffwriter
Want your event here?
Email calendar@thetartan.org.

---------------------------------------------------

16feature
pillbox 11.19.12
Jos Lopez | Staff Photographer
Members of Carnegie Mellons Christian a cappella group, Joyful 
Noise, performed in the University Center Kirr Commons as part of 
the Thanksgiving A Cappella Bash on Friday night. Joyful Noise hosted 
the event, which also featured open karaoke, a cappella musical chairs, 
and dessert-making activities.
a cappella.
