PILLBOX
Carnegie Mellons student newspaper since 1906
FORUM
The annual VIA festival returns to Pittsburgh  B8Pennsylvania voter ID laws need revised  A8
EOC
Learn how to network for the fall EOC  A6
Carnegie Mellon students 
gathered on the Cut Friday 
night to participate in Carnegie Mellons Relay For Life, 
organized by the Carnegie 
Mellon chapter of Colleges 
Against Cancer.
Relay For Life is a fundraising walk to raise money for 
the American Cancer Society, 
held overnight to show that 
cancer never sleeps. The event 
is meant to celebrate the lives 
of survivors, remember those 
who have been lost to cancer, 
and to ?ght back against the 
disease. Over 5,200 communities in 20 different countries 
hold their own Relay For Life 
event each year. 
Carnegie Mellons Relay 
For Life kicked off at 7 p.m. 
with the opening ceremony, 
and welcomed senior international relations and politics 
major and president of Carnegie Mellons chapter of Colleges Against Cancer Gabby 
DePasquale along with senior 
professional writing major 
and Relay For Life chair Raina 
Bradford-Jennings. Junior 
global studies major Emma 
Livne followed with an emotional and inspiring speech 
about her battle with acute 
myeloid leukemia this past 
year and ?nding strength in 
the embrace of others.
Over 300 people on 27 
teams participated in the 
event, setting up tents on the 
Cut and walking laps on the 
surrounding paths. Campus 
organizations such as clubs, 
sororities, and fraternities 
were present, raising money 
through online donations, 
sponsorships, fundraisers, 
and the sale of items such as 
popcorn, apple cider, cookies, 
and handmade jewelry.
I think its great that so 
many organizations on campus are getting involved in 
one cause, said ?rst-year 
economics and statistics major Theo Peterson.
DePasquale also appreciated the support from other 
campus organizations. We 
are honestly so thankful for 
everyone who has come out; 
we couldnt have asked for a 
better turnout. Everyone has 
been so amazing, she said.
The night was ?lled with 
events and entertainment, 
including a team captain relay race, dodgeball tournament, limbo competition, and 
yoga, as well as performances 
by Dancers Symposium, 
Chak de Bhangra, a cappella groups including Joyful 
Noise and Counterpoint, and 
various other Carnegie Mellon organizations. 
Its fun; its a really great 
experience said senior chemical engineering major Lizzy 
Ha.
During the somber Luminaria Ceremony, paper bags 
decorated with the names of 
those who have fought cancer 
were placed around the path. 
Each bag represented one person and was lit from within by 
a candle or glow stick.
These candles represent 
love and respect for those 
who have battled cancer, 
said ?rst-year electrical and 
computer engineering major 
and luminaria chair Celeste 
Neary. Participants took a silent lap to remember those 
who have been lost to cancer.
So far, Carnegie Mellons 
Relay For Life has raised 
$16,330 for the American 
Cancer Society, and will continue to fundraise until Dec. 
31. Last year, the event raised 
a total of approximately 
$24,000.
This campus has really 
just shown its support tonight, and we are really, really 
appreciative and humbled, 
Bradford-Jennings said.
Colleges Against Cancer 
will continue raise money and 
awareness throughout the 
year.
We do smaller events 
throughout the year to get 
cancer education more present on our campus, BradfordJennings said.
To contribute to the cause 
or learn more about Relay For 
Life, visit www.relayforlife.
org/pacmu.
BRENT HEARD
Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellon released 
its annual Security and Fire 
Safety Report last Tuesday. 
The document  emailed to 
the campus community by 
University Police Chief Tom 
Ogden  describes the current safety and ?re policies, 
provides emergency resources 
for students, and details crime 
and ?re statistics.
The release of this report 
complies with the Jeanne 
Clery Disclosure of Campus 
Security Policy and Crimes 
Statistics Act. The Clery Act 
requires the university to publish crime and ?re statistics 
from the past three years by 
Oct. 1 of each year.
The report provides details on how members of the 
Carnegie Mellon community 
can contact police and emergency services, the location 
of police crime logs, the location of emergency phones on 
campus, as well as many other 
resources regarding crime and 
?re safety.
Regarding crime statistics, 
the report mentions that Under the Clery Act, Professional 
Counselors, such as the counselors in CAPS, are not considered to be campus security authorities when acting in their 
professional capacity and are 
not required to report crimes 
for inclusion into the annual 
disclosure of crime statistics.
The departments crime 
prevention strategy relies 
on the dual concepts of eliminating or minimizing criminal opportunities, whenever 
possible, and encouraging 
community members to take 
responsibility for their own 
and others safety, the report 
continues.
In the reported crime statistics, the most prominent crime 
was burglary. There were 25 
documented cases of burglary 
in 2012, compared with 21 in 
2011 and 13 in 2010.
Thefts have historically 
been part of life in an open environment, Ogden said about 
the high number of burglaries. 
Ogden attributes the higher 
number to increased reporting of crime. Were seeing a 
lot more people who normally 
wouldnt report thefts reporting, he said. 
Ogden went on to describe 
that the university has partnered with the University 
of Pittsburgh to track down 
thieves, and is using plainclothes of?cers and cameras 
to catch perpetrators. He described one incident where 
Pitt sent pictures of two people who had been stealing 
from their locker rooms; the 
two were located and apprehended on Carnegie Mellons 
campus that afternoon stealing from the locker rooms in 
the University Center.
Were making good progress on the recent laptop 
thefts, and have made three 
arrests, Ogden added.
The most striking increase 
was in the number of forcible 
sex offenses, which spiked to 
15 last year, compared with 
?ve in 2011 and one in 2010.
The report noted, In 2012, 
there were 15 separate forcible 
sex offense incidents. Due to 
duplicate reporting to different law enforcement agencies, 
there were 17 total reports 
(i.e. two incidents were counted twice). In addition, the 
forcible sex offense statistics 
for 2011 have been amended 
to add 1 on campus incident in 
a residence facility.
Ogden remarked that 
were seeing a steady increase 
in reporting [of forcible sexual 
offenses] nationwide. Sex assault is one of the most underreported crimes.
He described that the victim works closely with counseling, student activities, and 
the police to decide the course 
of action to take. The victim, 
with a lot of support, makes 
the decision, he said. 
As with the burglaries, 
Ogden thinks that the higher 
number of sexual assaults 
in the report come from increased reporting rather 
than an increase in crime. I 
dont think theres [been] a 
dramatic increase in sexual 
assaults, but theres been an increase in reporting.
thetartan.org
@thetartan
October 7, 2013
Volume 108, Issue 7
Relay For Life raises funds and cancer awareness on the Cut
University Police release Security and Fire Safety Report
Annette Ko/Staff Artist
See SAFETY, A3
Bike Pittsburgh hosts forum on bike culture and safety
LILAH BUCHANAN
Junior Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellon community members gathered 
in Rangos Hall last Monday 
to voice cycling issues and 
concerns to Lou Fineberg, 
program director of Bike 
Pittsburgh. Bike Pittsburgh, 
a nonpro?t advocacy organization, aims to create a bikefriendly culture and infrastructure in Pittsburgh.
Participants raised a multitude of concerns including 
the safety and ef?cacy of bike 
lanes, how best to address aggressive driving, the practice 
of taking versus sharing lanes, 
and pollution.
Bike lanes, though widely 
believed to be a sanctuary 
for cyclists on busy thoroughfares, often instill an attitude 
in drivers that if bike lanes are 
available bikes must not be on 
the road. 
Unsafe bike lanes, like 
those that have now been removed from Liberty Avenue, 
compound safety issues for 
bikers who choose the street 
over dangerous bike lanes. In 
response to these concerns, 
Fineberg underscored that 
Pittsburgh is still really in 
the infancy of bike improvements and suggested that 
concerned citizens write letters to city and state governments to address both poorly 
placed bike lanes and their 
marked absence on many 
busy streets.
Fineberg offered concrete 
strategies to ease the aggressive driving characteristic of 
Pittsburghs car-dominated 
transportation culture. Fineberg advocated that cyclists 
faced with aggressive driving 
should call 311 or even 911 in 
extreme cases.
People who use their car 
as a weapon should have 911 
called on them, Fineberg explained. Fineberg also spoke 
of starting social media campaigns to raise awareness 
about the perils of aggressive 
driving for cyclists and pedestrians.
The practice of taking as 
opposed to sharing lanes is 
unfamiliar to many drivers. 
However, state traf?c laws 
grant cyclists the right to take 
an entire lane if there are two 
lanes running in the same direction. Fineberg advised that 
cyclists make conscious decisions as often as they can, 
and that cyclists take a lane 
whenever the opportunity 
presents itself. 
He counseled cyclists to 
consider what is the safest I 
can be and let that serve as 
the standard for navigating 
car-cyclist relationships. 
Several participants also 
discussed the potential health 
consequences of exposure to 
exhaust pollution during cardiovascular activity. Although 
some researchers assert that 
exhaust poses equal risk to 
drivers, Fineberg countered 
with studies by Athletes United and Scienti?c American, 
which found adverse effects 
of cardiovascular activity in 
polluted environments. 
See BIKE, A3
ISOs Mobile Device Security Day raises student awareness  
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
News Co-Editor
Students and faculty 
gathered in Rangos Hall to 
learn how to make their mobile devices more secure and 
learn about mobile device 
security from several different cell phone vendors last 
Wednesday.
The Information Security 
Of?ce (ISO) hosted the exhibition of mobile device security. According to their website, 
the ISO collaborates with the 
campus community to protect 
Carnegie Mellon from and to 
respond to threats to our electronic information resources 
and computing and networking infrastructure.
The ISO is focusing on mobile device security to honor 
Octobers National Cyber Security Awareness Month.
According to a campuswide email sent out by the 
ISO advertising the event, for 
the ?rst time, a majority of 
Americans have smartphones 
 56 percent, according to 
the Pew Research Center. The 
email read, Cybercriminals 
are now targeting these devices to steal data and commit 
fraud.
The event, which lasted 
six hours, featured tables set 
up by several prominent cell 
phone carriers and software 
security companies, including T-Mobile, Verizon, Sprint, 
and Symantec.
Nancy Zuzak, a senior advantage program representative at T-Mobile, said that the 
event aimed to teach students 
how to make their smartphones more secure. What 
we were invited to do today 
Kate Groschner/Photo Editor 
Students talk to various mobile device companies about device security. 
See MOBILE, A3
Jason Chen/Staff Photographer
Students chat as they take a lap around the Relay for Life track on the Cut. 
CHRIS GALVIN
Junior Staffwriter
Jason Chen/Staff Photographer
Sophomore CFA student Stanton Man plays bagpipes as part of Relay. 

---------------------------------------------------

A2  thetartan.org/news The Tartan  October 7, 2013
Corrections & Clari?cations
If you would like to submit a correction or clari?cation, 
please email The Tartan at news@thetartan.org or editor@thetartan.org with your inquiry, as well as the date 
of the issue and the name of the article. We will print 
the correction or clari?cation in the next print issue and 
publish it online.
NEWS IN BRIEFDonut Dash bene?ts Childrens Hospital
WEATHER
Jacket Theft
Sept. 27, 2013
University Police were summoned to the University Center regarding a stolen jacket. 
The victim stated that her 
jacket was stolen from Hamburg Hall Level A sometime 
between 6 p.m. on Sept. 23 
and 11 a.m. on Sept. 25.
Loud Party 
Sept. 28, 2013
University Police were 
summoned to the third ?oor 
of Hamerschlag House in reference to a loud party. When 
they arrived, they con?rmed 
that underage drinking was 
occurring before identifying 
the individuals in the noisy 
room. Six students received 
underage drinking citations. 
Underage Drinking 
Sept. 28, 2013
University Police stopped 
to check on the welfare of a 
Carnegie Mellon student traveling on foot at the intersection of Forbes and Morewood 
avenues. The of?cer observed 
that the male student was unsteady on his feet, and determined that he was intoxicated 
and in need of minor medical 
attention. The student was 
taken to the hospital, and later 
cited for underage drinking.
Hit and Run 
Sept. 30, 2013
University Police responded to an incident on Frew 
Street after a male reported 
that his vehicle, while legally 
parked on Frew Street, was 
struck between 5:30 p.m. and 
9:15 p.m. There was damage 
to the left side of the victims 
vehicle; however, the of?cers 
and the victim could not determine who had struck the black 
sedan. If anyone has pertinent 
information, please contact 
University Police.
Saxophone Theft
Oct. 2, 2013
A student summoned University Police to Margaret 
Morrison Carnegie Hall about 
a theft. The victim stated that 
he had secured his saxophone 
in a vestibule in a ?rst ?oor 
classroom in the building at 8 
p.m. on Sept. 30. When he returned at 1 a.m. last Tuesday, 
his saxophone was gone. This 
investigation is ongoing.
Public Drunkenness 
Oct. 4, 2013
University Police responded to the intersection of Forbes 
Avenue and Devon Road just 
after midnight last Friday after receiving a report of a nude 
male lying in the road. Upon 
arriving, police con?rmed that 
the male was nude and not a 
Carnegie Mellon af?liate. The 
male, who the police con?rmed was intoxicated, was 
transported to the hospital by 
city medics and will be cited 
for open lewdness as well as 
public drunkenness.
Campus Crime & Incident Reports
Carnegie Mellon students participated in the ?fth-annual Donut Dash Saturday morning. Participants ran two miles around Carnegie Mellons campus while intermittently eating donuts. All proceeds from this event will bene?t the Childrens Hospital of Pittsburgh of UPMC.  
Source: www.weather.com
FEATURE PHOTO
Recently Michael E. 
McHenry, professor of materials science and engineering 
at Carnegie Mellon, received 
the 2014 The Minerals, Metals, and Materials Society 
(TMS) Award for research 
excellence in electronic, magnetic, and photonic materials 
research. 
I am extremely pleased 
with this award as I work to 
pioneer research in the areas 
of nanocomposite materials 
for a variety of industry, laboratory, and basic research 
sectors, McHenry said in a 
university press release. 
McHenry has worked at 
Carnegie Mellon for more 
than 10 years, developing 
new materials, processes, 
and unique designs for highfrequency switching applications. Most recently, McHenry has been developing new 
materials and processes for 
improving the ef?ciency 
of power transformation.  
McHenry hopes this work 
will help revitalize Americas 
manufacturing sector.
McHenry received his 
bachelors degree in metallurgical engineering and 
materials science from Case 
Western Reserve University 
in 1980, and a Ph.D. in materials science and engineering 
from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1988. 
He was also a postdoctoral 
fellow at Los Alamos Lab 
from 198889. 
McHenry will receive the 
award during the 143rd TMS 
Conference in San Diego, 
from Feb. 1620.
CMU professor wins TMS award 
Visiting professor lectures on gay culture
Award-winning author 
and gay rights historian 
George Chauncey visited 
Carnegie Mellon and presented the 2013 Giler Lecture entitled Homosexuality and 
the Post-World War II Urban 
Crisis.
A professor of history and 
American studies at Yale 
University, Chauncey won 
numerous accolades for his 
book Gay New York: Gender, 
Urban Culture and the Making 
of the Gay Male World, 1890
1940, including the 1994 
Organization of American 
Historians Merle Curti Prize 
for the best book in social history, the Frederick Jackson 
Turner Prize for the best book 
in any ?eld of history, and the 
Los Angeles Times Book Prize 
and Lambda Literary Award. 
As a historian, Chauncey 
has given expert testimony in 
more than 20 court cases related to gay rights, including 
four Supreme Court cases: 
Windsor v. United States, Hollingsworth v. Perry, Lawrence 
v. Texas, and Romer v. Evans.
Tim Haggerty, director of 
the Humanities Scholars Program in the Dietrich College 
of Humanities and Social Sciences, was excited about the 
lecture. 
According to a university press release, Haggerty remarked, Not only is 
Chauncey one of the leading 
historians in the country today, he is discussing the intersection of two dynamic ?elds: 
gay and lesbian studies and 
urban history.
The university press release notes the Giler Lectures 
were established by Carnegie 
Mellon alumni Kim and Eric 
Giler to support visits from 
leading scholars and internal 
workshop events for students 
in the Humanities Scholars 
Program and across campus.
Ex Of?cio ReportSpecial Allocation: Public Communications for Researchers
STUDENT SENATE MEETING MINUTES
FRIDAY
High / Low
69 / 45
SATURDAY
High / Low
71 / 49
SUNDAY
High / Low
76 / 50
TUESDAY
High / Low
64 / 42
WEDNESDAY
High / Low
67 / 41
THURSDAY
High / Low
68 / 41
At this weeks Senate meeting, Amy Burkert, vice provost 
for education, and Janel Sutkus, director of institutional 
research and analysis, presented their respective campus initiatives.
Burkert, who has been at 
Carnegie Mellon for over 20 
years, talked about several 
university initiatives to promote student wellness and an 
overall better student experience. 
One such initiative, a mini 
course called Thrive@CMU, 
which teaches students how 
to handle stress and take care 
of their mental health, was 
introduced to the curriculum 
this semester.
Sutkus talked about health 
initiatives within the university and showcased a survey 
that will be sent to students 
this year to gauge their sexual, physical, and nutritional 
health.
Compiled by
BRIAN TRIMBOLI 
Compiled by
ALVIN MATHEW
Public Communications for 
Researchers requested funds 
from Senate to host a workshop 
to teach scientists how to present information in a way that 
the public can easily understand. 
The organization will work 
with The Story Collider, a 
podcast, to host a workshop to 
teach scientists skills for communicating complex scienti?c 
ideas to laypeople.
In order to promote participation in the event, the events 
organizers will provide transportation to the off-campus 
venue. 
Senate granted Public Communications for Researchers 
$1,500 to host its event.
Special Allocation: Film Making Club 
The Carnegie Mellon Filmmaking Club requested funds 
from Senate to make a short 
?lm, Steel Town. Nicholas 
Hurt, a senior business administration major and president 
of Filmmaking Club, made the 
organizations case in front of 
Senate. 
The Filmmaking Club has 
received funds from several 
other sources, including the 
Graduate Student Association, 
the Carnegie Institute of Technology, the Of?ce of the Dean 
of Student Affairs, and a Kickstarter formed by the organization.
Senate voted to allocate 
$2,000 to the Filmmaking 
Club. Steel Town will premiere 
at the Shot for Shot Student 
Film Festival, which is hosted 
by the Filmmaking Club and 
held during Spring Carnival.
Jason Chen/Staff Photographer

---------------------------------------------------

October 7, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/news  A3
music.cmu.edu
Free with a CMU ID at the door.
Sunday, October 13, 7:30pm
Carnegie Music Hall, Oakland
CMU Philharmonic
Chamber Orchestra  
Andrs Crdenes, Artistic Director
Joseph Silverstein,
guest conductor
CARNEGIE 
MELLON
SCHOOL 
OF MUSIC
  201314 CONCERT SERIES
Sponsored by the Carnegie Mellon Department of Chemistry and the Mellon College of Science.  
The Mellon Institute is located at 4400 Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA 15213. 
For more information, please contact 412-268-1062.
James T. Hynes
University of Colorado Boulder
Jumps and Hydrogen Bonds:  
From Pure Water to DNA
Third Biennial 
John A. Pople Lectures in 
Theoretical and Computational 
Chemistry
ReactantTransition stateProduct
Tuesday, October 15, 2013 4:30 p.m.
Mellon Institute Auditorium
Reception following lecture in the Mellon Institute Lobby 
Free and Open to the Public
University Police publish crime report
In response to concerns 
about sexual assault, the annual report provides contact 
information for programs 
such as Rape Aggression 
Defense (RAD) and SelfDefense Awareness & Familiarization Exchange (SAFE). 
RAD is designed speci?cally 
for women and is described 
in the report as a nationally recognized twelve-hour 
course that teaches women 
the skills that can help prevent or survive a violent attack. The report also notes 
that in partnership with the 
Athletic Department, the 
University Police Department 
also offers RAD as a 3-unit 
course to all registered students.
SAFE is a nationally recognized educational awareness program that provides 
teenage and adult women 
with information that may 
reduce their risk of exposure 
to violence and introduces 
them to the physical aspects 
of self-defense, the report 
says.
 SAFE is offered as a two 
-hour course on a by-request 
basis to small groups on campus.
The report also notes that 
last year there were 42 liquor 
law arrests, 17 disciplinary 
actions with respect to liquor 
laws, 10 drug law arrests, 73 
disorderly conduct charges, 
and 17 cases of vandalism.
Ogden spoke of the 
$30,000 grant the university received from the Liquor 
Control Board to educate and 
curb liquor law violations. 
The grant  which was 
awarded to Jason Hendershot, a sergeant in the Carnegie Mellon University Police 
 will be used to begin a 
two-year alcohol education 
and enforcement program 
called Realize Alcohol In?uences Decision making, or 
RAID.
There were four ?res recorded on campus in 2012, 
three of which were unintentional and attributed to cooking, and one which occurred 
in a trash can in Morewood 
E-Tower.
Rick Caruso, ?re safety 
manager for Carnegie Mellons environmental health 
and safety department, con?rmed by email that there 
have been no major changes 
to the universitys ?re policy 
since the last Security and 
Fire Report was issued.
Alex Frantz, a sophomore 
drama major and resident 
assistant in Morewood Gardens, said, As an RA, I am 
familiar with the Annual Security and Fire report. It is a 
resource that we were familiarized with during training.
Frantz added that the 
contact list provided at the 
bottom of the sheet is a really 
good snapshot of just some 
of the resources available. I 
would say that all students 
should have these numbers programmed into their 
phones, just because you never know what you will need 
when. Probably the most important of these [numbers] is 
the campus police.
Im only concerned because everybody here is 
so busy, Ogden said with 
respect to nonemergency 
reporting. 
Ogden is worried that 
students put off bringing up 
issues, rather than informing the police as soon as they 
occur. In the case of an emergency, Ogden urged students 
not to hesitate to call University Police. Just call. Youre 
not bothering us.
The 2013 Annual Security 
and Fire Safety Report can 
be viewed and downloaded 
from http://www.cmu.edu/
police/images/2013asr.pdf.
Cyclists discuss bike safety at forum
He also proposed Bike 
Pittsburghs Better Bikeways 
Vision, which would distance 
bikers from exhaust emissions 
as a possible solution. In the 
short term, Fineberg reminded participants that, as long 
as its not a business district, 
you are allowed to ride on 
the sidewalk. He also noted 
that a small number of cyclists 
have taken to wearing face 
masks during their commute 
to protect themselves from exhaust fumes.
The discussion also brie?y 
touched on pedestrian-cyclist 
relationships  a subject of 
particular interest to Carnegie 
Mellon students who choose 
walking as their means of 
transportation on campus. 
Pedestrians question the presence of bicyclists on campus 
walkways.
This campus is small 
enough  students do not 
need to bike down walkways 
to make a 10-minute passing 
period. Bicyclists on walkways 
endanger students on foot, 
?rst-year chemical engineering major Sage Yort said.
First-year electrical and 
computer engineering major 
and avid bicyclist Maya Lassiter advocated for students 
who want to ride their bikes 
to class. As a cyclist, I would 
like to see the school establish 
separate bike lanes and pedestrian pathways, she said. 
Bike Pittsburghs forum offered an opportunity for concerned cyclists to discuss their 
budding presence in a largely 
car-dominated transportation culture, as well as advice 
and resources for experienced 
riders and students who may 
be considering joining the 
wheeled ranks of Pittsburghs 
cyclists. 
Fineberg is optimistic 
about establishing biking culture in Pittsburgh. He believes 
that the success of such a  culture depends largely on the 
implementation of bike-sensitive city planning, such as the 
inclusion of properly placed 
bike lanes.
SAFETY, from A1
Jonathan Leung/Assistant Photo Editor 
was help the students and 
the faculty understand ways 
to address mobile security on 
their smartphones.
T-Mobile, Zuzak said, recently launched more security 
features for its devices. Zuzak 
also highlighted some basic 
safety tips, such as protecting 
smartphones with a password 
and using applications that 
can alert the user to a phones 
location if its lost or stolen. 
It could be something as 
simple as using an application called LookOut, which is 
a free application, so you can 
?nd your smartphone. We 
also highlighted that one of 
the best practices is to password protect your device, 
Zuzak said.
Dennis Csordas, a business 
development manager for TMobile, mentioned an application that users can install 
on their phones that takes a 
picture of the person trying to 
unlock your phone and sends 
it to you in an email. And if 
you lose it, it makes a siren 
sound. 
Even if a mobile device 
user just loses his or her phone 
between couch cushions, Csordas said, an application like 
this can save time and effort 
by broadcasting the phones 
location via GPS and with 
noise. 
The ISO also provides mobile device security tips on its 
website. It recommends, for 
example, that users passwordprotect their devices, report 
lost and stolen devices, regularly back up data, and follow safe cell phone disposal 
practices.
The ISO even recommends 
installing antivirus software 
on mobile devices. Mobile 
devices can be just as susceptible to viruses as desktop 
computers, according to the 
ISO website. This is new terrain for hackers but industry 
analysts expect viruses, Trojans, spam, and all manner of 
scams to grow as the mobile 
device market grows.
Some students dont worry 
about mobile device security 
due in part to the efforts of the 
ISO.
I feel its pretty secure, 
especially on CMU campus. 
Its a secure area; our school 
is technologically advanced. 
So, its not something I really 
worry about, said sophomore 
biology and psychology major 
Leslie Tay.
Carnegie Mellons University Police were also at the 
event; of?cers registered students laptops so that if they 
were ever lost or stolen University Police would have the 
the serial number.
We take the serial number 
down, and we mark on the 
back in invisible pen. That way 
we have it on ?le if your laptops ever stolen or lost, said 
Michael Ufheil, a member of 
the Carnegie Mellon University Polices Crime Prevention 
Unit. We can check either 
with local pawn shops, or, if 
City of Pittsburgh Police come 
in contact with it, they know 
to check with us, and that way 
theyll see that its from Carnegie Mellon and theyll get a 
hold of us and well get a hold 
of you, he continued. 
The event featured talks 
throughout the day about mobile security from many of the 
attendees, including Apple, 
Sprint, T-Mobile, and Google 
Glass.
More information about 
the ISO and its particpation in National Cyber Security Awareness Month can 
be found on their website at 
https://www.cmu.edu/iso/
aware/ncsam/index.html.
Mobile security showcase informs students
MOBILE, from A1
BIKE, from A1

---------------------------------------------------

A4  thetartan.org/scitech The Tartan  October 7, 2013
NIHARIKA SINGH
Staffwriter
Most students at Carnegie Mellon have used, or at 
least heard of, open-source 
software. Examples of such 
software include the browser 
Firefox and the mobile operating system Android. Opensource software, in most basic 
terms, makes its code publicly 
available for modi?cation and 
distribution by users. Proponents believe that creating an 
open community of programmers who modify software for 
their own uses provides the 
best possible experience for 
users, allowing them to customize according to their own 
needs.
One of the common misconceptions about opensource software is that its 
hard to make money using 
it. After all, since the code is 
distributed freely and can be 
modi?ed by any user, why 
would anyone spend money 
on it? However, according to 
the Open Source Initiative 
(OSI), there are many ways 
to make money from opensource software. Groups can 
offer maintenance services 
related to the code, or license 
the trademark to make money 
from the code they write. The 
OSI is a nonpro?t organization that creates a set of standards for open-source software.
The fact that open-source 
software can be used for commercial purposes is one of 
the main differences between 
open software and free 
software, which some people 
use interchangeably. Richard 
Stallman, a big proponent of 
free software, summarized 
the difference between the 
two in an article on gnu.org: 
Open source is a development methodology; free software is a social movement. 
According to him, opensource focuses on developing 
the best possible version of 
software by harnessing the 
power of many developers 
creating many different versions of the software. However, free software is distributed 
at no charge with the code 
publicly available and with 
special attention paid to the 
ethics behind the software. 
For example, malicious software to track a users computer usage could be considered 
open-source as long as the 
code is made publicly available. However, that malicious 
software would not be considered free because it doesnt 
respect the users right to privacy while using a computer.
According to an article 
published by Harvard Business School, there are many 
reasons programmers choose 
to work on open-source projects on their own time, even 
when they dont derive ?-
nancial bene?ts from such 
projects. These projects let 
programmers create custom 
versions of software that work 
well for their particular usage. 
Programmers are also used to 
working with this type of software from their student days, 
and many choose to continue 
working on such projects into 
their careers.
Working on a big opensource project is a good way 
to gain experience in a realworld coding environment, 
which many programmers 
value. Since open-source is 
transparent, its also easier for 
programmers to measure their 
progress against others; in corporate projects, its often hard 
to tell who worked on what.
A report by developmenttesting company Coverity 
found that open-source software has quality on par with 
that of proprietary software. 
That makes sense, considering the passion and talents of 
the many programmers who 
work on such projects. Many 
users take advantage of such 
products and are grateful for 
their price and quality.
HOW THINGS WORKUsers edit and customize with open-source software
BROOKE KUEI
Assistant SciTech Editor
The Siebel Scholars Foundation announced the recipients of the annual Siebel Scholars awards. This 
program, which currently 
consists of nearly 870 Siebel 
Scholars, recognizes the most 
talented individuals of business, bioengineering, and 
computer science graduate 
schools across the country.
Each year, ?ve graduate 
students from Carnegie Mellon are selected and awarded 
$35,000 for their last year of 
studies. This years Carnegie 
Mellon Siebel Scholars are 
Jason Koenig, Anuj Kumar, 
Gabriela Marcu, Ishan Misra, 
and Mrinmaya Sachan.
Koenig was a computer science major at Carnegie Mellon 
who graduated in ?ve semesters. During his time as an undergraduate, he was a course 
assistant for Principles of 
Imperative Computation and 
did research with computer 
science professor and current head of the department 
of computer science, Frank 
Pfenning, on the researching 
aspects of the subset of the C 
programming language used 
in that course. Koenig also 
worked on the lunar rover 
project and interned twice at 
Microsoft. After graduating 
early, he interned at Johns 
Hopkins Universitys Applied 
Physics Laboratory, working 
on cybersecurity and formal 
methods. In August, he returned to Carnegie Mellon for 
a ?fth-year masters in computer science. On the topic 
of the Siebel Scholars, Koenig said, It doesnt just cover 
tuition. There is a pretty big 
community of former recipients, which looks to be a great 
resource.
Kumar is a Ph.D. candidate 
in the Human-Computer Interaction Institute (HCII). His 
research deals mainly with 
developing voice-user interfaces for atypical users, such 
as children, low-literate users, or speakers of minority 
languages. In the past, he has 
worked at Microsoft and IBM, 
as well as at the University of 
California, Berkeley, and the 
International Institute of Information Technology, Hyderabad in India. 
He also served as a program committee member at 
the Association for Computing 
Machinerys Intelligent User 
Interfaces conference, and as 
a reviewer at the Conference 
on Computing Factors in Computing Systems and MobileHCI. More than the award 
itself, I think its the recognition and the community that 
Im very excited to be part of, 
Kumar said. When I look at 
some of the alumni, especially their past research, where 
each of them have landed, and 
what they are doing currently, 
its a bit overwhelming, but at 
the same time tremendously 
motivating.
Marcu is also a Ph.D. candidate in the HCII. Her research involves various ?elds, 
such as ubiquitous computing, applied sociology, and 
mental health. Throughout 
the past two years, she has 
led a 10-person research team 
studying behavioral data consumption and sharing among 
stakeholders in special education, conducted ?eldwork in 
schools and homes, and developed a tablet-based data 
collection system and visual 
analysis tools through action 
research.
Misra is a masters student 
in the Robotics Institute. After 
spending his undergraduate 
years exploring many different ?elds of computer science 
research  including theory 
of computation, databases, 
networking, operating systems, and computer vision 
 he found his passion working with object detection and 
scene detection, which are 
both important for systems in 
which robots encounter unknown objects. 
He is interested in pursuing a future in research and 
is currently debating between 
applying for a Ph.D. or looking 
for a job. The Siebel Scholar 
title feels really nice, Misra 
said. It is a unique scholarship with a really strong community of past scholars and 
faculty to it. Even though the 
scholarship lasts only for one 
year, the nurturing community stays with you.
Sachan is currently a masters student in the Language 
Technologies Institute at Carnegie Mellon. Before coming 
to Pittsburgh, he received his 
bachelors degree in computer 
science from the Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur. 
His past job experiences include interning at the National 
Institute of Informatics, Tokyo 
and working in the Information Management group at 
IBM Research India. The main 
topic of his research involves 
understanding the structure of 
social networks and the ?ow 
of textual information to better understand interests and 
relationships among people. 
It is indeed a pleasure to be 
part of the nice cohort of really 
smart and motivated people, 
Sachan said.
All ?ve of this years Siebel 
Scholars show the amount of 
dedication and intelligence required for the award. In a few 
years, they will become a part 
of the vast Siebel Scholars network, serving as mentors for 
future scholars from Carnegie 
Mellon.
No sleep may lead to development of chronic conditions
According to a study by the 
Centers for Disease Control 
and Prevention, the inability to sleep soundly may be 
linked to chronic conditions 
such as diabetes, coronary 
heart disease, anxiety, and 
obesity in adults 45 and older. 
According to M. Safwan Badr 
of the American Academy of 
Sleep Medicine, obtaining 
seven to nine hours of sleep is 
crucial to reaping the health 
bene?ts of sleep, particularly 
for those with chronic conditions. For this reason, Badr 
recommends that adults with 
chronic diseases who suffer 
from sleep disorders should 
undergo treatment, as resolving their sleep issues could 
signi?cantly alleviate their 
symptoms.
Source: Science Daily 
Increasing amount 
of debris hazardous for space station
Human-induced pollution 
has recently extended beyond 
the boundaries of Earth. The 
probes, rockets, and satellites sent into space over the 
past few decades have accumulated into hundreds of 
thousands of pieces of fast 
moving debris. The international space station and its 
crew have come into multiple 
close encounters with this debris within the past few years. 
Because of its fast orbital 
speed, as little as one centimeter of this debris could destroy a spacecraft. Although 
the risk of the debris falling to 
Earth and doing any damage 
is relatively low, the collecting debris continues to pose 
a threat to the international 
space station.
Source: Scienti?c American
Algorithm may be behind biological phenomena
Algorithms are the fundamentals of modern technology, but Probably Approximately Correct, a book by 
Leslie Valiant of Harvard Universitys computer science department, suggests that their 
importance dates back much 
further. Valiant claims that 
algorithms permeate most 
aspects of biology, including 
evolution. 
Valiant argues that if the 
mutation of species occurred 
at random, then natural selection would have occurred at 
a much slower rate. He concludes that it is more likely 
that natural selection is supplemented by biological algorithms that help organisms 
adapt to their environment 
more ef?ciently.
Source: The New York Times
Numbers set for climate change
The U.N. Climate Panel of?cially established a ceiling 
on greenhouse gas emissions 
last Friday, which if not adhered to, could result in irreversible climate change. The 
panel found that once global 
temperatures rise more than 
3.6F above that of preindustrial times, we will begin 
to witness the most dangerous effects of climate change. 
To keep below this level, no 
more than one trillion metric tons of greenhouse gases 
can be burned and emitted 
into the atmosphere. According to calculations by Myles 
R. Allen of the University of 
Oxford, this limit will be exhausted by 2040. 
Source: The New York Times
Centipede venom may ?ght pain
New research on mice 
show that a venom found in 
centipedes may eliminate 
pain as effectively as morphine. Researchers injected 
mice with the isolated compound, called Ssm6a, and 
found that the mice had fewer 
signs of pain when subjected 
to stimuli. The research was 
published in the Proceedings 
of the National Academy of 
Sciences.
Ssm6a works by blocking 
a pain channel in the body. 
Because the pain channel is 
in the periphery nervous system, drugs that block it would 
not cause side effects such as 
dizziness and drowsiness. 
Source: ScienceNews
Possible delay for rover proposals 
NASA recently put out an 
open call for scientists to submit proposals suggesting science and technology instruments that will be put on the 
next Mars Rover, originally 
scheduled to depart in 2020. 
The goal of the new rover 
will be to ?nd evidence of life 
suggested by Curiosity, and 
to test technologies that may 
one day enable humans to 
land and live on Mars. However, the Nov. 15 deadline for 
proposals may be delayed if 
the government is still shut 
down during this time period.
Source: LiveScience
Compiled By
SONIA KATHARANI-KHAN
SCITECH BRIEFS
New Siebel Scholars prove to be leaders in technology
Carnegie Mellon recently announced its ?ve Siebel Scholars: Jason Koenig (top right), Anuj Kumar (middle right), Gabriela Marcu (bottom right), Ishan Misra (bottom middle), and Mrinmaya Sachan (bottom left)
Courtesy of Mrinmaya SachanCourtesy of Ishan MisraCourtesy of Gabriela Marcu
Courtesy of Jason Koenig
Courtesy of Anuj Kumar

---------------------------------------------------

October 7, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/scitech  A5
JOIN THE CELEBRATION
www.cmu.edu/suresh-inauguration
NOVEMBER 14  15
Carnegie Mellon Racing accelerates toward electronic vehicles
JENNIFER GOLDA
Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellon Universitys chapter of the Society of 
Automotive Engineers (SAE), 
which has historically built 
and competed with gasolinepowered cars, is transitioning 
to electric vehicles (EV) in 
preparation for the secondannual Formula SAE Electric 
event in June. This event is 
the newest division in SAE 
Internationals Formula SAE 
competition. According to 
the Formula SAE website, a 
team of mostly undergraduate engineering students must 
conceive, design, fabricate, 
develop and compete with 
small, formula-style vehicles 
before the competition date 
in June. The students will act 
as contractors and build their 
car according to a ?ctional 
customers speci?cations. At 
the event, they will be awarded 
points based on their design, 
cost, and business plans as well 
as the vehicle performance.
With regards to the teams 
motivation to transition to the 
EV competition, preisdent of 
Carnegie Mellons SAE competition team Carnegie Mellon 
Racing (CMR), Michael Spinelli says, Our goal is to show 
that Carnegie Mellon electrical engineering and electric 
vehicles is a winning combination .We want to push the 
industry boundaries. Indeed, 
pushing the boundaries of 
their own organization with 
the introduction of electrical and computer systems in 
the formerly pure mechanical 
design has made them reach 
out to other engineering disciplines.
Electric power and gas 
power differ in many ways. 
According to the Of?ce of Energy Ef?ciency and Renewable Energy, one of the major differences is that while 
gasoline-powered vehicles 
have hundreds of moving 
parts, EVs have only one: the 
motor. Instead of an engine, 
it is the motor that produces 
the force to move an EV. Foot 
pedals that control cables for 
accelerating and breaking in 
a gasoline-powered car now 
only control an electrical output. Additionally, a battery 
that stores energy replaces the 
gas tank, the controller controls acceleration and speed 
instead of a carburetor, and 
other mechanical-electrical 
systems replace what used to 
be purely mechanical systems.
To help with the design 
and programming of these 
systems, CMR has recruited  
more electrical engineers than 
it ever has done. One person 
that joined the team as a result 
is Omar Skalli, a sophomore 
electrical and computer engineering and biomedical engineering double major, and 
the system leader for the accumulator (the battery). During their weekly general body 
meeting last Friday, Skalli began training members on how 
to safely collect data from the 
lithium-iron-phosphate battery cells. Charge too little, 
they blow up, he explained. 
Charge too much, they blow 
up. So safety is of the upmost 
concern.
Accumulator testing will 
take place at Carnegie Mellonss ChargeCar garage for 
gasoline-to-electric vehicle 
conversion on Forbes Avenue. 
Eventually, they plan to evaluate most of the 100 or so battery cells while they construct 
their 80-plus cell battery pack.
With its new electric motor 
that should be able to exert up 
to 4,000 pounds of force, the 
car will theoretically reach a 
maximum speed of 120 mph. 
An attribute of motors high 
power-to-weight ratio is that 
they allow EVs to accelerate 
much faster than traditional 
cars; CMR is expecting its newest vehicle to be able to travel 
75 meters from rest in only 3.7 
seconds. Drivers selected from 
within the team can expect to 
experience up to two Gs of lateral force.
When asked about the one 
thing he would like people to 
know about CMR, Spinelli said 
that the greatest selling point 
of SAE is the real engineering. 
Brian Tang, the unsprung 
mass system leader and mechanical engineering masters 
student, agrees. Its just good 
hands-on experience that lets 
you have full control over what 
youre doing. Theres nothing 
restricting you from designing 
it however you want. It gives 
you the responsibility and 
the opportunity to test your 
skills, Tang said. At CMR, this 
is especially true. Right now, 
he said, there are not that 
many teams [in the EV competition], and it would be cool to 
set the standard. Its like a new 
frontier.
As the team begins to enter 
the manufacturing stage of the 
car, they must continue to work 
hard to stick to their timeline. 
If they remain on schedule, 
the car will begin rolling in the 
Morewood Gardens parking lot 
on Dec. 2. However, another 
exciting date comes sooner; 
registration opens next week 
and the car, known tentatively 
as XXE will receive its registration number from Formula 
SAE.
For the mechanical purists, 
all is not lost. In addition to 
their work on the electric vehicle, the team will continue 
to repair and run some gasoline-powered cars from previous years. Although these cars 
will not compete, having them 
running will provide valuable 
resources for driver training 
and data collection.
Jennifer Golda/Junior Photographer
Students in Carnegie Mellon Racing work on their latest prototype: an electric vehicle.
Jennifer Golda/Junior Photographer
Carnegie Mellon Racings new vehicle  tentatively called XXE  will 
theoretically be able to reach a maximum speed of 120 mph.

---------------------------------------------------

A6  thetartan.org/special The Tartan  October 7, 2013


---------------------------------------------------

October 7, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/special  A7


---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan is a student newspaper at Carnegie Mellon University, funded in part by the student 
activities fee. It is a weekly publication by students during the fall and spring semesters, printed by 
Trib Total Media. The Tartan is not an official publication of Carnegie Mellon University.
The Editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The 
Tartan Editorial Board. Columns, Editorial Cartoons, and Reviews are the opinions of their 
individual creators. The Tartan Editorial Staff reserves the right to withhold from publication 
any copy it deems unfit.
Letters to the Editor are the opinions of their authors. Letters from within the University community take precedence. Letters intended for publication must be signed and include the authors 
address and telephone number for verification; letters must not exceed 350 words. Authors names 
may be withheld from publication upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject 
any letter. Letters must be submitted by 5 p.m. on the Wednesday before publication by mail or to 
forum@thetartan.org.
StaffEditorial Board
Office: University Center 314
Phone: (412) 268-2111
Fax: (412) 268-1596
Web: www.thetartan.org
E-mail: contact@thetartan.org
Mail:
The Tartan
Box 119, UC Suite 103 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
 2013 The Tartan, all rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN: 0890-3107
JENNIFER COLOMA *
Publisher
JOSH SMITH *
Editor-in-Chief
BRADEN KELNER 
Forum Editor 
EVAN KAHN *
Copy Manager
JUSTIN MCGOWN
Online Editor
CHLOE THOMPSON
Staffwriter
BRENT HEARD *
Staffwriter
A8  thetartan.org/forum The Tartan  October 7, 2013
FROM THE EDITORIAL BOARD
SENIOR STAFF 
Stephanie Blotner, Greg Hanneman
COPY
Lula Beresford-Banker, Francesca Begos, Matt 
Brown, Connie Chan, Nivedita Chopra, Gordon 
Estes, Blaine Greenberg, Ariel Hoffmaier, 
Katherine Huang, Evaline Ju, Karyn Michela, 
Satvika Neti, Mackenzie Nicholson, Gates 
Palissery, Syed Rahman, Taylor Rawley, Kevin 
Reichek, Stephanie Stern, James Wu
LAYOUT
Adrian Amegashie, Manali Banjeree, Yong Gun 
Choe, Sara-Remi Fields, Anne-Sophie Kim, 
Mina Kim, Linging Sun, Tanguri Tzuo
ADVERTISING
Alison Chiu, Linda Ju, Anuva Kulkarni, 
Gretchen Tan
KELSEY SCOTT *
Operations Manager
NEL UM
News Co-Editor
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
News Co-Editor
MICHAEL SETZER
SciTech Editor
WILLIAM PARK
Sports Editor
RACHEL COHEN
Pillbox Editor
KAIRAVI CHAHAL
Comics Editor
KATE GROSCHNER
Photo Editor
LAURA SCHERB
Personnel Manager
WILL CRICHTON
Systems Manager
SWATHI ANAND
Layout Manager
JOHN HUO
Advertising Manager
DESIREE XU
Business Manager
BENJAMIN CHANG
Asst. Business Manager
JONATHAN LEUNG
Asst. Photo Editor
HANNAH DELLABELLA
Asst. Copy Manager
JULIA YANG
Asst. Copy Manager
BROOKE KUEI
Asst. SciTech Editor
JOEY PEISER
Asst. Pillbox Editor
JONATHAN CARREON
Contributing Editor
Editorial Staff
* Denotes executive committee member
Advanced technology is playing 
an important role in the classroom 
now that it has proven its usefulness 
in daily life. 
Because of technologys expanding practicality, it may seem like a 
great move to spend $1 billion to 
give every student in the Los Angeles 
Uni?ed School District (LAUSD) a 
$700-dollar iPad  but reality paints 
the situation in a different light.
Unsurprisingly, Los Angeles students ?gured out ways to circumvent 
web-browsing restrictions, and many 
ignored rules prohibiting the expensive devices from being taken home, 
according to the Los Angeles Times. 
As a result, the LAUSD has now 
called for the return of every iPad 
and is trying to determine if the devices should be used in future classroom instruction at all. So far, a third 
of the pricey iPads remain unaccounted for despite the recall.
A signi?cant portion of the teachers in the school district probably 
foresaw this outcome to some extent. Students have been using and 
abusing classroom equipment since 
they were given wax tablets: Textbook margins become sketchpads, 
and chalkboards are blank slates for 
profane phrases. 
It should be assumed that students will disregard rules and use 
equipment in undesirable ways. To 
believe otherwise is to be willfully 
foolish.
The classroom is simply not the 
place to put cutting-edge technology into students hands. Teachers 
should not have to spend class time 
and school resources ensuring that 
new technology is used for academic 
purposes and not mistreated, especially when older tried and true 
methods are already known to be 
effective. 
However, if putting expensive 
technology in the hands of the youth 
is a must, e-readers instead of iPads 
with textbooks already pre-loaded 
might be a more effective option.
If this alternative is pursued, it 
may lighten students backpacks 
and could lead to deals with publishing companies, since digital-format 
books have much higher pro?t margins. Students will also be less likely 
to browse the Internet on unauthorized sites.
If educators ensure that technology can only be used for academic 
purposes, such as by providing technology with limited functions, they 
may ensure that students use technology in the classroom as it is intended to be used. 
Educational technology should be 
tested before implementation, and 
educators should be comfortable before its admission into the classroom.
Schools must cautiously use new devices
A few weeks ago, the Pittsburgh 
Post-Gazette published an opinion 
piece by senior associate general 
counsel of the United Steelworkers 
union Daniel Kovalik titled Death 
of an adjunct. The article described 
the situation surrounding the death 
of Margaret Mary Vojtko, an adjunct 
professor at Duquesne University 
who taught French for 25 years.
Unable to pay bills for her cancer 
treatment and ineligible for health 
bene?ts from Duquesne due to her 
status as an adjunct, Vojtko died 
in poverty from a heart attack on 
her front lawn. The tragic situation 
sparked an outcry over the treatment 
of adjunct faculty, and was covered 
by many news sources, even sparking an opinion piece published on 
CNNs website titled Adjunct professors are the new working poor.
The outcry over this tragic incident is justi?ed, and the bene?ts given to adjunct faculty deserve further 
investigation.
Carnegie Mellon does a commendable job in offering appropriate bene?ts to its adjunct faculty. 
In university-provided information 
regarding employee bene?ts, the 
word adjunct is not used. Instead, 
university employees are labeled 
full-time; part-time bene?ts eligible; 
and part-time not bene?ts eligible. 
According to documents publicly 
available on the university website, 
the quali?cation for bene?ts depends on whether or not an employee has worked for the university for 
more than four months and over 17.5 
hours per week, or has worked 46.7 
percent of a full-time schedule. 
After these criteria are met, Carnegie Mellon employees are eligible 
for medical bene?ts, as well as retirement contributions. Dental and 
vision bene?ts are reserved for fulltime staff. It is admirable that Carnegie Mellon provides health bene?ts 
for part-time faculty, especially when 
other universities do not. The criteria 
for eligibility is fair. 
As detailed on the universitys 
human resources website, Carnegie 
Mellon currently has 83 part-time 
faculty members, which accounts for 
about 6 percent of university faculty. 
That means that  at maximum  
only 6 percent of faculty are not eligible for at least some of the bene?ts 
that the university offers, although 
many may be eligible.
However, the situation seems 
more dire for faculty at many other 
universities. The Affordable Health 
Care Act, which would require all 
people to purchase some form of 
health insurance, could partially resolve the issue of professors not being provided with health insurance. 
Unfortunately, this does not eliminate the ?nancial obligation of having to purchase health care  even 
at lower, public marketplace rates 
 a burden that could be lightened 
if more adjunct faculty were eligible 
to receive health bene?ts.
University offers ?tting part-time bene?ts
Pennsylvanians must revisit voter ID laws
BRANDON SCHMUCK
Junior Staffwriter
Since its debut, news companies 
have praised the iPhone 5s and one 
of its newest features: the Touch ID 
?ngerprint scanner. In its review of 
the device, tech blog SlashGear describes the scanner as the ?rst biometrics system that actually stands 
a chance of succeeding in the mass 
market.
 Apple is not the ?rst to pioneer 
biometric security, but because of 
the companys widespread success, 
other companies tend to follow in 
its footsteps. Because of this trend, 
more devices with ?ngerprint scanners will soon be on the market.
Apples Touch ID system offers great convenience to the user. 
Strenuous password typing has 
been replaced with a simple touch 
of the ?nger. However, with great 
convenience also comes great risk: 
The ?ngerprint is perhaps the most 
sensitive information that we have 
ever placed into our mobile devices. 
Imagine the power that an individual, corporation, or government body 
could gain if it had the potential to 
access a larger number of Americans ?ngerprints than it currently 
has.
In a press release dated Sept. 10, 
Apple promises that Touch ID will 
provide an extremely secure experience. It states, All ?ngerprint information is encrypted and stored securely in the Secure Enclave inside 
the A7 chip, and its never stored 
on Apple servers or backed up to 
iCloud. These statements sound 
promising, but after the recent 
leaks released by National Security 
Agency (NSA) contractor Edward 
Snowden surrounding its surveillance measures, can we truly believe 
every word Apple  or any technology corporation for that matter  
tells its customers?
I hope to think that the answer 
is still yes; however, many people 
remain skeptical, including hacktivist group Anonymous. According to 
a video recently released by Anonymous, the deal between AuthenTec 
 the biometric scanner company 
that creates the Touch ID sensors 
 and Apple is questionable, due to 
AuthenTecs past connections to the 
government and a recent FBI biometrics project.
Anonymous points out in the video that AuthenTec entered the market as a spin-off company of Harris 
Corporation, which receives an 
annual $6 billion from the government. In addition, the current chairman of AuthenTec, Robert E. Grady, 
served as deputy assistant to George 
H.W. Bush. Grady also did work at 
the Carlyle Group, a Washington 
D.C. management ?rm that invested 
$910 million in Booz Allen Hamilton  the intelligence ?rm that employed Snowden. Because of this, it 
is undeniable that the manufacturer 
of these biometric scanners has connections with the U.S. government 
and military.
Anonymous also leaked documents that revealed the FBIs alleged Next Generation Identi?cation plan, which would create a 
?ngerprint database of citizens for 
use both domestically and on the 
battle?eld. 
What better way is there to gain 
access to the ?ngerprints of all 
Americans than to place biometric 
scanners on the personal devices 
they love most?
I would like to believe that we live 
in a country where the government 
and corporations are ethical enough 
to not collect and store the ?ngerprint data of everyday citizens. 
However, after The New York 
Times revealed last week that the 
National Security Agency had conducted a project in 2010 and 2011 
that tested collecting the location 
data of everyday citizens from their 
cellular devices, it is clear that this 
organization lacks any sense of respect for personal privacy, and if 
there is a way to gain access to this 
trove of ?ngerprint data, it will ?nd 
it.
Apples scanner could exploit citizens privacy
Annette Ko/Staff Artist
Attorney General Eric Holder 
announced on Monday that the Department of Justice was suing North 
Carolina over the states controversial new voting law. The amendments covered in this voting law will 
require all voters to present photo 
ID in 2016, eliminate same-day registration during early voting, and 
reduce the early voting period from 
17 days to 10, among other changes, 
according to Time magazine. The Department of Justice is focusing speci?cally on the requirement of photo 
ID, as they claim that the law offers 
no protection for voters who do not 
have identi?cation and would affect 
minority voters the most, according 
to CNN. North Carolina lawmakers 
argue that this law will prevent voter 
fraud, but critics point out that voter 
fraud is not a major problem in the 
United States.
Although there are no major 
elections in the near future, similar 
Pennsylvania laws passed last year 
must be revisited to allow those who 
may be barred by the laws to vote.
Pennsylvania lawmakers enacted 
a voter ID law just before the presidential election of 2012. According 
to NPR, many critics of the law in 
Pennsylania, including John Jordan 
of the National Association for the 
Advancement of Colored People, argued that the law had the potential 
to seriously limit the voting access 
of veterans, seniors, people with 
disabilities, and minorities. In October 2012, a Pennsylvania judge 
served an injunction that prevented 
the photo ID law from affecting the 
presidential election. However, the 
law was not completely thrown out, 
and therefore has the potential to affect a wide range of future elections 
in Pennsylvania. Over the past two 
years, voter ID laws have been struck 
down in Texas, Wisconsin, and South 
Carolina, according to The New York 
Times.
These laws have the potential 
to seriously affect elections nationwide, both on the national and local 
level. Most voter ID laws are pushed 
by Republican-dominated legislatures, but tend to affect minorities 
likely to vote for Democrats. 
Pennsylvanias voter ID law needs 
to be revisited sooner rather than 
later, to ensure that all U.S. citizens 
have equal ability to exercise their 
right to vote.
Rachel Cohen/Pillbox Editor

---------------------------------------------------

A PERSONS OPINION
October 7, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/forum  A9
Compiled by Justin McGown
The Tartan, along with the rest of the world, watched the U.S government shut down this week. So we asked,
Whats the ?rst thing you thought when you heard about the shutdown?
XIYU WANG 
Texas state Senator Ted Cruz 
and the GOP have been widely condemned by the media and the public 
over the government shutdown. Surprisingly, much of that criticism has 
come from within the GOP itself.
The GOP has always prided itself 
on its strong political unity, as characterized by former President Ronald Reagans 11th Commandment 
 thou shalt not speak ill of any 
fellow Republican. However, over 
the past few years, deep ?ssures appeared between the radical Tea Party 
and moderate Republican wings, 
and these ?ssures have only become 
deeper with the debt limit debacle.
The marriage between the Republican Party and the Tea Party was 
once fruitful. Some say that politics 
are about winning over powerful 
minorities to sway elections; the 
Tea Party can be considered such a 
minority. The energetic party has 
enough electoral power to change 
elections; in many ways, the Tea 
Party has reinvigorated the Republicans. However, there are signs that 
the honeymoon is ending, and once 
it is over, the GOP will realize that 
the Tea Party is a political dead end. 
To retain political relevance and the 
moderate majority, the GOP needs to 
divorce itself from the Tea Party.
The fact is, the GOP can survive 
without the Tea Party, but the Tea 
Party cannot survive without the 
GOP. As one of the two major parties in Americas political system, 
the GOP lends an air of legitimacy to 
the Tea Party. It brought prominent 
Tea Party members  such as Sarah 
Palin, Michele Bachmann, and Ted 
Cruz  into the national spotlight 
and gave them the funding, coverage, and connections to further their 
political careers.
The problem with Tea Party members, as evidenced by the debt limit 
situation, is that they are best suited 
as ideologues and should not actually be given legislative authority. 
Tea Party members want the kind of 
radical, sweeping social and political 
change that a democratic government is simply unable to realistically 
deliver. When they dont get their 
way, even the dullest of political minutiae must become a Braveheartesque last stand against the forces of 
big government.
The radical conservatism they espouse and the theatrical tactics they 
employ do not resonate with much of 
the American population. A Gallup 
poll conducted this year shows that 
only 22 percent of Americans support the Tea Party. In contrast, Occupy Wall Street, a more liberal movement, had twice the support from 
the general public, according to the 
New York Daily News. However, the 
movement was never fully accepted 
by the Democratic Party the same 
way the Tea Party was incorporated 
into the Republican Party; eventually, Occupy Wall Street faltered. More 
likely than not, the Tea Partys fate 
would be the same if it were cut off 
from the Republican Party.
In the long term, the GOP needs 
to move toward greater inclusiveness 
so that it can willingly accommodate 
the diverse American public. If not, 
it will be dragged down by the Tea 
Party when it eventually sinks.
Xiyu Wang (xiyuw@) is a staffwriter 
for The Tartan.
GOP must cut ties with the Tea Party
JUSTIN YAN
Junior Staffwriter
The Intergovernmental Panel on 
Climate Change (IPCC) announced 
last Friday in an assessment of the 
state of the climate system that it is 
extremely likely that mankind has 
caused climate change. In a 2007 assessment, the same U.N.-sponsored 
panel called it very likely. Their 
assessment of a diverse array of factors, such as ice and snow volume, 
sea levels, and greenhouse gas concentrations, led them to conclude 
that global warming is manmade. 
While this information isnt new, it 
is still jarring. 
Even more concerning is the 
question of how man will cope with 
global warming. Surely mankind  
creator of the wheel, discoverer of 
electricity, and inventor of the computer  will be able to cope with 
this challenge.
Global warming is a fact that 
has been proven again and again; 
therfore, it must be addressed immediately. This current climate 
trend is not an Earth-warming cycle, 
because carbon dioxide levels are 
higher than ever. People have never 
dumped so much waste into the atmosphere before because they have 
never before used so much fossil 
fuel. 
Even by the skeptics, however, 
the fact that people are destroying 
the environment cannot be rejected. 
Deforestation in Southeastern Asia, 
environmental monetization by China, and American reliance on oil all 
contribute to the fact that people are 
depleting resources at an unsustainable pace while destroying delicate 
equilibriums that hold the planet 
together. In light of all the effects 
of human consumption of natural 
resources, the dire impacts of global 
warming are only a small step away.
The IPCC says that action must 
be taken now. Their reports indicate 
that climate change could easily exceed the 3.6C limit change that the 
U.N. has concluded the world must 
remain below in order to avoid the 
worst impacts of global warming, 
according to CBS News. Beyond this 
point, there may be no return. 
Of course people, myself included, have the tendency to procrastinate. The carbon in fossil fuels that 
people have burned into carbon 
dioxide will stay in the atmosphere 
for centuries, and it cant exactly 
be caught and stuffed somewhere. 
People cannot simply stop burning 
carbon immediately, either; they 
are ?nding gas reserves everywhere, 
and they are highly dependent on 
oil. Newly developed techniques of 
getting oil only increase the rate at 
which people can use fossil fuels. 
Each year that people delay cutbacks, they lower the probability 
that the IPCCs goal of remaining below a 3.6C change will be reached. 
The probability of reaching that goal 
would have been 67 percent had 
governments started passing laws 
ordering emission reductions in 
2011, and the reduction would have 
needed to be around 3.7 percent a 
year, according to theoretical physicist Lawrence Krauss in The New 
Yorker. If cutbacks begin in 2015, 
the reduction will have to be around 
5.3 percent a year, says Krauss. The 
point is that action needs to be taken 
now.
It is worth clarifying that the people discussed in this article only live 
in countries where resources can be 
harnessed and used. What about 
the other half of the world, where 
clean water is hard to come by, and 
connecting to electricity is a nearmiracle? Have people collectively 
diminished their chance to improve 
standards of living? 
A conundrum that faces policymakers, economists, ?nanciers, 
and scientists is how to develop the 
emerging markets in nations that 
have not yet reached the technological sophistication of countries like 
the United States, the United Kingdom, and Japan. 
How do countries of the ?rst 
world help others develop without 
further damaging the climate and 
its fragile balance? The storms and 
?oods that global warming bring 
will affect the agriculture of developing nations, where agriculture is 
perhaps one of their main industries. 
Without a sustainable agricultural 
sector, a country cannot advance in 
terms of productivity and standards 
of living. People in countries of the 
?rst world have a moral obligation 
to aid those they have affected. They 
have to save what they can, not only 
for future generations, but also for 
the people in the present they have 
impacted.BRADEN KELNER
A recent article in The Wall Street 
Journal highlights the debate over 
whether wage increases for primary and secondary school teachers should be based on the length 
of their teaching career and their 
personal level of education or on students academic performances.
Some critics, like Thomas J. Kane 
 an economist at the Harvard 
Graduate School of Education and 
director for the Center for Education Policy Research  argue that 
schools should provide salary increases based on student academic 
achievements, rather than solely on 
their educators academic degrees 
or time spent teaching. These critics are completely right, but until 
accurate measures of student abilities can be generated, a delicate balance between teacher quali?cations 
and student performance must be 
struck when determining educators salaries.
Basing teacher salary increases 
on student performance is intended 
to reward those teachers truly dedicated to their students learning, but 
may, in reality, reward those who 
teach to the test. 
If schools choose to base their 
pay-raise standards upon state assessments, they may not accurately 
determine educators performances. 
These tests are important for measuring basic abilities, but they do not 
often match up with curriculum offered by teachers. Many state tests 
that have arisen from the No Child 
Left Behind Act, like the Pennsylvania System of School Assessment, 
are geared toward ensuring that all 
students reach a certain bar but are 
unconcerned with how far above the 
bar students go. 
Educators teaching academically 
rigorous courses, therefore, may not 
be evaluated correctly, since they often cannot teach to the test, and their 
students are not tested in relation to 
their potentials. 
Furthermore, relying less on degrees to determine pay increases 
may deter educators from obtaining 
these degrees. In an academic setting, where the goal is to constantly 
learn, educators cannot be the exception. Just like students, teachers 
must continue their education. Admittedly, teachers are encouraged 
to complete Continuing Education 
programs throughout their time as 
educators. Why stop at Continuing 
Education programs, though? If educators have the resources to enroll in 
masters programs, they should be 
encouraged by their school districts 
to do so. Basing pay raises signi?-
cantly less on the attainment of masters degrees may effectively remove 
encouragement that districts previously offered.
The ways in which educators are 
evaluated in relation to student performance may be too broad to provide accurate benchmarks for teachers. However, if evaluations become 
more speci?c to the material that individual educators teach, then they 
should be relied upon. Until then, 
other factors  like the amount of 
time teachers spend educating and 
the degrees they attain  should 
play prominent roles when determining pay increases.
Braden Kelner (bik@) is Forum editor 
for The Tartan.
Dont link teacher pay to pupil success
Address global warming to sidestep dire effects
Vishalsai Daswani
ECE, Computer Science
Senior
What is wrong with this 
country?
Jaime Fawcett
Professional Writing, Creative 
Writing
Junior
Is my mother still going to get 
paid, and will I be able to go to 
school anymore?
Alexa Roberts
Architecture
Sophomore
What? Really? What does that 
mean exactly? What will the consequences be?
Peter Wan
Economics
First-year
Whats going to happen next?
Mari Mercado
Linguistics
Junior
I really hope that the people 
affected by this arent hit too 
hard.
Braden Kelner/Forum Editor
Braden Kelner/Forum Editor

---------------------------------------------------

irst-years
Neil Abcouwer
Damon Alford
Harsha Alles
Joseph Barbish
Aditya Bhandaru
Debjani Biswas
Leila Bouabdellaoui
Adam Brecher
Collin Buchan
Matthew Burnett
Rui Cai
Daniel Cardenas Rivero
Jule Carr
Oscar Chahin
Arthur Chang
Valerie Chang
Nima Cheshmeh-Shahi
Faith Clayton
Bridgid Cody
Lizmarie Comenencia Ortiz
Bryan Connelly
Benjamin Cosio
Trevre Cusma
Melissa Daly
Kathryn Davis
Erin Donnelly
Mark Erazo
Philip Etling
Shao-Chuan Fang
Paul Finkel
Andrew Finlayson
Steven Ford
Sanchit Ganeriwal
Lalitha Ganesan
Taylor Gaston
Evan Gates
Brooke Gladstone
Neil Goeckner-Wald
Kartik Goyal
Clayton Hamm
Michael Heinzelmann
Maxwell Herman
Shayna Hilburg
Tiffany Ho
Jyo Lyn Hor
Jennifer Horst
Emilia Howard
Tyler Huberty
Seyoung Huh
Erin Hurbi
Guergana Ilieva
Kyle Irish
Joshua Jehning
Madeleine Kelly
Nathan Khosla
Sujung Kim
Price Kinney
Viswa Tej Koganti
Lane Kurkjian
Laura Laham
Joseph Lee
Allen Lee
Stacey Lee
Kee Young Lee
Jack Li
Albert Liang
Teng Fei Liao
Kaiyang Liew
William Littleield
Talia Livneh
Miranda McCoy
Christina Miller
Zeinab Mohamed
Ramanathan Muthiah
Hirotaka Nakagawa
Neha Nandakumar
Tufale Nawaz
Ninar Nuemah 
Amber Ohiokpehai
Brian Osbun
Dennis Ou
Marina Parra
Prerak Patel
Kelle Patterson
Steven Pepin
Anya Prasitthipayong
Huan Qin
Evan Quirk
Siri Amrit Ramos
Sarah Ramp
Christina Razzano
Nicholas Ricciardi
Patrick Robinson
Ruthika Ruthika
Sara Saheb Kashaf
Abigail Schaeffer
William Schymik
Hannah Shepard
Benjamin Shih
Solomon Sia
Mark Wong Siang Kai
Katherine Smith
Breanna Stillo
Daniel Stoll
Torstein Stromme
Andre Sutanto
Marianne Thaila
Sam Thompson
Noel Titus
Wee Chuan Tor
Daniel Tsuan
Ethan Ungchusri
Ramyata Upmaka
Sharanya Venkat
Deepak Vidhani
Anisha Vyas
Evan Walden
Jayon Wang
Kevin Waters
James Weltz
Jillian Wollenberg
Taylor Womack
Jonathan Wong
Joshua Wylie
Jiaqi Xing
Anan Denise Yam
Yunhao Yang
Leah Yingling
Hanrui Zhang
Minghui Zhang
Susan Zheng
seniors
Raj Agarwal
Eleanora Allen
Juan Angarita
Philip Bailey
Vineet Baldwa
Justin Barsano
Katia Bazzi
Remy Behl
Rodrigo Bergamasco
Mustafa Bilgen
Pronoy Biswas
Adam Britton
Andrew Brock
Krystina Calfo
Adam Cantini
Brian Chang
Jefie Chang
Gun Charnmanee
Joshua Chen
Stephen Chen
Jason Cheng
Rachel Chow
David Chow
Thomas Chu
Xian Bin Chua
Corinne Clinch
Madeline Cramer
Carl Curran
Siddharth Dedhia
Brian Devincentis
Julia Devito
Christopher Ejiofor
Jennifer Elkin
William Elmore
Brian Ferri
Evan Fisch
Alexander Fry
David Garnsey
Carlos Gil
Jennifer Golda
Humberto Gonzalez
Anshul Goyal
Isabelle Hammer
James Hart
Kristen Hauser
Zachery Hissam
Julia Ho
Yi Huo
Lawrence Jackson III
Melanie Jasper
Jeremy Jiang
Soo Ah Jin
Adam Jung
Akash Katipally
Allen Kim
Samantha Klonaris
Alex Kowalski
Alexander Kozhemiakov
Bennett Kriete
Sairam Krishnan
Christopher Leaf
Jiwon Lee
Kyung Jae Lee
Spencer Lehr
Mengzhe Li
Jessica Lo
Katherine Loiselle
Matthew Maciejewski
Adara Maroon
Scott Martin
Dale Mcconachie
Sean Mcqueen
Taryn Monteleone
Daniel Murby
Li Yen Ng
Nik-Zulhariz Nik-Fuaad
Michael Nye
Andrew Pfeifer
Julia Plugrath
Andrea Pickel
Yannick Poffet
Mogan Ramesh
Gloriana Redondo
Julie Rekant
Roger Romero
Michael Rosen
Michelle Ruiz
Michael Ryan
Daniel Santoro
Matthew Sarett
Stephen Scannell
Manuel Schmid
Tejank Shah
Pranay Sharma
Emerson Silva
Niharika Singh
Ramya Sivakumar
James Solomon
Shao-Heng Tai
Brian Tang
Etienne Thalmann
Andrew Thorsen
George Tian
Ryan Trottier
Alice Tsai
Lawrence Tsang
Paraj Tyle
Claire Usiak
Shrihari Venkatesh
Han Wang
Alexander Warzinski
Rebecca Wells
Christoph Westerwalbesloh
Mark Williams
Maxwell Wilson
Ting Xu
Justin Young
Elias Zauner
Xiao Bo Zhao
juniorssophomores
Mark Aboff
Terence An
Rahul Anand
Nathan Appelson
Benjamin Avery
Spencer Barton
Dennis Begos
Zack Birnbaum
George Bocchetti
Arman Bolat
Daniel Bucci
David Campbell
Ray Cao
Lauren Cembrook
Peter Chiappa
Thomas Chittenden
Charles Chong
Stephen Chong
Nia Christian
Seth Cordts
Adam Costanza
Eamon Cullinane
Daniel Cushman
Patrice Daniel
George Degen
Amy Desalazar
Connor Dixon
Bailey Forrest
Alexandra Frankel
Justin Frye
Madelyn Gioffre
Cajer Gong
Blair Graham
Erica Green
Jordan Green
Catherine Groschner
Graham Harvey
Korey Haug
Miriam Hegglin
Shannon Horgan
Victor Hu
Nathaniel Jansen
Nathaniel Joseph
Jaime Kang
Christian Kasilag
Michael Kellman
Sara Kelly
Michelle Kim
Jeremie Kim
Sam Klein
Sean Klein
Timothy Koh
Advaya Krishna
Wee Loong Kuan
Kevin Lau
Bic Yan Lee
Kok Wei Lee
Xiang Lin
Joshua Lopez-Binder
Yumin Mao
Peter Mchale
Nicolas Mellis
Jonathan Miedel
Brandon Mittman
Yeon Ji Moon
Anubhav Moondra
Andrew Mort
Thomas Mullins
Vivek Nair
Sarah Narburgh
Michael OConnor
Chin Yang Oh
Mariah Ondeck
Jun You Ong
Esteban Pacheco
Jun Hong Park
James Petka
Martin Piekarski
Erik Pintar
Palak Pujara
Dylan Quintana
Faith Quist
William Records
Ian Rosado
William Ross
Utkarsh Sanghi
Richard Shanor
Michael Spinelli
Evan Starkweather
Caitlin Streamer
Bryan Tan
Elliott Tan
John Taormina
Malavika Thottappillil
Megan Tienjaroonkul
Krithiknath Tirupapuliyur
Jonathan Touchette
Srinivasan Vijayaraghavan
Peter Wei
Samuel Winslow
Thomas Wucherpfennig
Borui Xu
Darwin Yang
Shuyi Zhang
Lily Zhang
David Zhou
Ariana Zito-Wolf
Elias Szabo-Wexler
Spring
2013
Deans List
Derek Loh
Donghui Luan
Alexander Lucci
Jenna MacCarley
Danielle Maly
Amanda Marano
Ryan McKinney
Alec Mervis
Ioannis Michailidis
Anna Mirabella
Akhil Mittal
Rudina Morina
Ramsey Natour
Alexandra Newby
Michael OFarrell
Jonathan Ong
Hector Ostolaza
Benjamin Paren
Eric Parigoris
Dongjoon Park
Stephanie Patterson
Peter Pearson
Srujana Peddada
Brandon Perez
Nishant Pol
Yufei Qu
Shastri Ram
Vishnu Razdan
Kelsey Rhee
Clayton Ritcher
Francisco Rojo
Ann Rutt
Vijay Sampath
Rekha Schnepf
Aaron Sentis
Stanley Seow
Nitsan Shai
Nora Shoemaker
Ashish Shrestha
Hao-Jan Shue
Benjamin Siegel
Shubhit Singh
Michael Solomon
Shashwat Srivastava
Hui Jun Tay
Mohit Teckchandani
Vishal Vala
Rishi Ved
Andi Wang
Sicong Wang
Sirena Wang
Matthew Whitney
Edward Williamson
Darrin Willis
Fan Xia
Patrick Xia
Liangyuan Xiang
Jingtao Xu
Patricia Xu
Sam Xu
Raymond Xu
Emily Yang
Xianqi Zeng
Eli Zoghlin
Cosku Acay
Joel Accorsi
Abhishek Alla
Jongkyu Baek
Rohit Banerjee
Christopher Barker
Jonathan Berman
Aditya Bist
Sean Bittner
Robert Buarque De Macedo
Christopher Chao
Justin Chen
Xi Chen
Maggie Chen
Vincent Chiang
Kenneth Chin
Jae Won Choi
Foo Lai Choo
Chia Yi Joel Choo
William Crichton
Amelia Crigler
Zachary Dawson
Emma Diantonio
Tanner Douglas
Matthew Du
William Ehrett
Evan Englert
Jonathan Farr
Yudi Feng
Rachel Freer
William French
Manu Garg
Philip Garrison
Chue Hsien Goh
Yoon Hee Ha
Daniel Haddox
Yicong He
Christopher Herrera
Hannah Hoffert
Benjamin Hong
Nicole Huang
Yoyinsola Ibikunle
Alicia Iott
Geneva Jackson
Jun Su Jang
Yichu Jin
Taigyu Joo
Marc-Daniel Julien
Brian Krainer
Vivek Krishnan
Madelaine Ku
Joshua Kubiak
Christopher Kwan
Eleanor Kwik
Darwin Kwok
Grant Langevin
John Lareau
Leann Law
John Wen-Hao Lee
Yingqiu Lee
Xiaofan Li
Yue Li
Kenneth Li
Zhi Ting Lim
Laura Limon

---------------------------------------------------

October 7, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/sports  A11
ALINE NARODITSKY
Junior Staffwriter
The mens tennis team 
travelled to the University of 
Mary Washington on Sept. 
28 to battle it out in the Intercollegiate Tennis Association 
(ITA) Southeast Regional 
Tournament. 
The team went deep, with 
junior Christian HeaneySecord and ?rst-year Kenny 
Zheng making it to the semi?nals, and sophomore Abhishek Alla taking home the 
singles title. Alla had to duke 
it out with two of his own 
teammates to obtain the coveted title.
In the quarter?nals, Alla 
faced teammate junior Will 
Duncan and beat him in an 
intense three-set match (46, 
62, 75). It was bittersweet 
 it was pretty early, and it 
was a good match, Alla said. 
He explained how thinking of 
tennes as an individual sport 
is essential to winning.
You have to do what you 
have to do, he said. No hard 
feelings. However, beating Duncan was only the 
?rst step. Alla moved on to 
the semi?nals, in which he 
defeated Zheng (64, 62). 
Finally, to win the ITA singles title, Alla crushed Ben 
Hwang of Johns Hopkins 
University (62, 61).
Commenting on Allas 
performance, Zheng said, 
He was playing extremely 
well. I knew he was going to 
kill that kid in the ?nals.
I dont really get nervous. 
I just knew I had to make a lot 
of balls and not make any unforced errors, Alla said.
When he won, Alla was 
overjoyed that he would get 
to skip three days of school 
this week to play in the 
ITA National Small College 
Championships in Fort Meyers, Fla.
The Southeast Regional 
Tournament began with 64 
teams. In order to be victorious, Alla had to win a 
series of six matches over 
three days. Alla emphasized 
that the hardest match was 
against his teammate Duncan, because he was just that 
good.
By the third day, most of 
the team had to head back to 
Carnegie Mellon for class and 
did not get to see Alla win 
the title. It sucked that not 
everyone from the team was 
there, Alla said.
Originally from Hyderabad, India, Alla has played 
tennis since he was 6 years 
old. My parents wanted 
us to try out activities. We 
started playing tournaments, 
it got competitive, and we 
started traveling, Alla said. 
He attended IMG Pendelton 
School, a boarding school in 
Florida, for his junior and senior years of high school.
However, attending Carnegie Mellon gave Alla his 
?rst opportunity to play on 
a team. Its just fun to be 
around [my teammates]  
they push me to work hard, 
Alla said. This sense of teamwork has become one of Allas favorite aspects of tennis.
Allas strengths as a player go beyond his technical 
ability.
I have good defense and 
attack, Alla explained, but 
my serve is pretty weak. 
My movement consolidates 
everything. 
Alla also manages to do 
one of the more dif?cult 
things for a tennis player to 
do: keep his cool. I dont get 
too emotional on the court. 
My opponents get frustrated 
sometimes, he said.
Winning this tournament 
means that Alla has gained 
the title of All-American, a 
title Alla has been keen on 
earning this year. 
Advancing to the national 
tournament, which starts 
Thursday, he will face off 
against seven other regional 
champions from Division III.
Tenniss Alla is on his way to FloridaTough start for mens soccer in UAA
WILLIAM PARK
Sports Editor
The womens soccer team 
started University Athletic 
Association (UAA) Conference play Saturday with a 00 
tie against the University of 
Chicago in a game they came 
close to winning.
I think we outplayed 
them, but we didnt get many 
solid opportunities, sophomore forward Louisa Pendergast said.
The Tartans always seemed 
as if they were threatening to 
score, and they outshot the 
Maroons 112. Chicago, however, started off the game faster and had a few promising 
plays on the counterattack.
The Tartans were able to 
slow the game down, winning 
free kicks and corners toward 
the middle of the ?rst half. 
They controlled the game 
from then on.
UAA [play] is always 
a battle. They came out 
with a UAA mentality, and it 
didnt take long to pick up on 
that, graduate student goalkeeper Anna Albi said.
Their best scoring opportunity in the ?rst half came off a 
corner when junior mid?elder and forward Amanda So 
found the ball in front of the 
net, but her volley ?ew high.
In the second half, the ball 
stayed mainly in the middle 
of the ?eld; a strong Chicago 
defense kept the Tartans out 
of their defensive third, for the 
most part.
A little fortune helped the 
Tartans get a great look on 
goal in the 74th minute. A 
shot by senior defender Rachel Contopoulos de?ected 
to sophomore mid?elder Allison McGugan, who was left 
unmarked inside the penalty box, but her shot 
curved over the 
net. As no one was 
marking her, she 
could have taken more time 
to get a better look on 
goal before 
shooting.
The 
Tartans 
also saw 
several chances in the ?rst 
overtime period. After several 
crisp passes, Pendergast
found the ball at the top of 
the penalty 
box. 
She 
took a touch to beat her 
defender and ?red a left-footed shot that soared wide left 
over goal.
By the second overtime, the 
team seemed tired and failed 
to score the decisive goal.
After the Tartans slow 
start, their defense shut down 
the Chicago attack led by junior mid?elder Sara Kwan. 
Kwan, who leads the Maroons 
with six goals and six assists 
for the season, was able to 
?nd open space in the beginning of the game and to 
make nice leading passes 
to her mid?elders on the 
sidelines.
In the second half, the 
Tartans defenders quickly closed in whenever she 
touched the ball; with 
Kwan neutralized, the Maroons struggled picking apart 
the Tartans defense.
Albi said Kwan was the 
key player on their scouting report whom 
they knew they had 
to stop. Our whole 
mid[?elders] did a 
great job of holding 
her down.
Despite the tie, the 
Tartans proved they are 
ready for UAA Conference 
play.
I think if we keep our defensive shape and work on our 
?nishing abilities, well be able 
to beat anyone, Pendergast 
said.
Their next challenge comes 
this Saturday at Washington 
University in St. Louis.
Womens soccer ties with University of Chicago 00
Greg Hanneman/Senior Photographer
Senior Mike Ferraco (top) challenges the University of Chicago player and senior Moni Sallam (above) eludes the sliding defender. The mens soccer 
teams home loss puts them at 721 on the season. 
Jonathan Leung/Assistant Photo Editor
First-year defender Amelia Clark (left) slides for the ball, and junior 
forward Savina Reid (above) battles the defender.
WILLIAM PARK
Sports Editor
The mens soccer teams 
21 loss to the University of 
Chicago on Saturday ended 
with a frightening incident.
In the 90th minute, senior mid?elder Jerome 
Reano chased 
a loose ball 
outside the 
Chicago 
penalty 
box, but 
as the 
ball bounced 
in the air and 
Chicago goalkeeper Brett 
Wiesen went up 
to punch it, Wiesen hit Reanos 
head instead. 
Reano fell to 
the turf and 
laid there for 15 
minutes before 
being carried 
off the ?eld on a 
stretcher.
Reano entered the game in 
the 82nd minute 
after a Chicago goal 
gave them a 21 lead, 
and he made an immediate 
impact. The speedy mid?elder chased loose balls 
and pressured a Chicago 
defender into clearing 
the ball over the goal line 
in the 87th minute for a 
Tartan corner kick.
Reano sustained a concussion from the play, and he 
received stitches to his ear. 
Although Wiesen was given a 
straight red card, the Tartans 
didnt see any malicious intent 
 it was just a hard play.
I think [Wiesen] was trying to get the ball, and I dont 
think he expected Jerome to 
be as fast as he was.... It was 
a bad collision, said head 
coach Arron Lujan.
Obviously, they were both 
going for the ball ... but it 
was an ugly play to see, 
said ?rst-year Tristan 
Lockwood.
Outstanding 
play by Tartan mid?elders 
gave the team a great chance 
to win despite sloppy play 
from the defenders and limited touches for senior forwards Max Tassano and Chris 
Wysocki.
Although the Tartans generated more scoring opportunities and possessed the ball 
better, Chicagos tight defense 
made a big difference. Their 
defense played well. They 
were compact and werent 
giving us much space, Lockwood said.
Chicago maintained a high 
line of defense and was successful in limiting touches for 
forwards Wysocki and Tassano; when they did possess 
the ball, however, it was near 
the center line and often with 
their backs facing goal.
Our forwards are 
players who show for 
the ball and want the 
ball at their feet. 
Theyre not forwards who look 
to get in behind 
players, Lujan said. At 
times it became very predictable what we 
were going to do, 
and they were able 
to keep a really 
high 
line.
The Carnegie Mellon defense, on the other 
hand, struggled to clear the 
ball and suffered from poor 
communication.
Chicago scored ?rst in the 
10th minute when Chicagos 
Nic Lopez was left unmarked 
in the far post and headed in a 
corner kick.
The Tartans tied the score 
four minutes later when senior defender Ben Bryants 
free kick dipped perfectly into 
the back of the net.
Misplays from the back 
four continued, however. A 
poor clearance from defender 
Jakob Rohwer led to a one-onone opportunity for Chicago 
in the 43rd minute, but goalkeeper Christopher Madden 
jumped from his line to make 
a close-range save.
Chicagos Lopez also 
scored the ?nal goal of the 
game in the 79th minute off 
another header.
Moments before, the Tartans had a great opportunity 
to score when Lockwood sent 
a cross to senior mid?elder 
Mike Ferraco, who was free 
on the left side of the ?eld. 
Ferraco took a touch back in 
and had a wide-open look at 
the far post, but he shot wide 
and high.
We were just really hesitant in the back, Lujan said. 
Weve been so solid there 
over the last eight games, that 
its really surprising that it 
would happen now.
We dominated in the second half, I thought. We just 
couldnt ?nish, and we had a 
defensive lapse on that goal, 
he said.
After a disappointing start 
to University Athletic Association (UAA) Conference play, 
the Tartans will move on this 
Saturday as they visit Washington University in St. Louis.
Its one game. We still got 
six games in UAA to prove ourMaryyann Landlord/Junior Photographer
File photo by Kate Groschner
Three players from the mens tennis team, including Abhishek Alla 
(above), advanced to the semi?nals of the ITA Southeast Tournament. 
Jonathan Leung/Assistant 

---------------------------------------------------

A12  thetartan.org/sports The Tartan  October 7, 2013
SPORTS COMMENTARY
Pirates start playoffs, putting years of losing behind them
CARL GLAZER
Staffwriter
The streak is ?nally over. 
The Pittsburgh Pirates streak 
of 21 losing and playoff-less 
seasons was days away from 
being sadly extended when 
the Pirates played their wild 
card play-in game against the 
Cincinnati Reds last Tuesday.
It has been an interesting season for the Pirates. 
The team, made up of journeyman veterans, unproven 
young players, and one star, 
has faced injuries, slumps, and 
last-minute trades. But nevertheless, this group of underdogs has turned into the ultimate feel-good story during 
this postseason.
Tuesday nights wild card 
game showed why baseball is 
a better sport when Pittsburgh 
has a winning team. The soldout, blacked-out crowd was 
deafening and had everyone 
talking about the state of 
Pittsburgh fandom. Twentyone years of built-up energy 
was unleashed when Pirates 
fans ?nally had something to 
cheer for. The stadium nearly 
exploded with excitement in 
the second inning. Late August 
trade addition Marlon Byrd hit 
a solo home run to give the Pirates a 10 lead. Two batters 
later, free-agent acquisition 
Russell Martin was up to bat 
against Reds ace Johnny Cueto 
when the crowd took over. 
Deafening taunts of Cue-to 
Cue-to echoed through the 
stadium.
Reports have varied about 
what happened next. Pirates 
supporters believe that the 
chants caused Cueto to lose his 
cool and drop the ball on the 
ground while walking back 
to the mound. Reds manager 
Dusty Baker, who was ?red after the loss, claimed that Cuetos hand just slipped and the 
crowd was a non-factor. Either 
way, the result was the same. 
Martin and Cueto exchanged 
smiles at the situation; on the 
next pitch, Martin drilled the 
ball 405 feet to center ?eld 
for a home run and turned the 
crowd loose.
After another Martin home 
run, the Pirates cruised to a 
62 victory, allowing them 
to move on to the National 
League Division Series against 
the National League Centralwinning St. Louis Cardinals.
The ?rst two games of the 
series were complete mirror 
images of each other: Game 
1, on Thursday in St. Louis, 
showcased a battle of strong 
pitchers with the Pirates A.J. 
Burnett facing off against Cardinals ace Adam Wainwright. 
It was shaping up to be a pitchers duel until the bottom of 
the third inning when Burnett 
lost his command.
The inning started with 
Burnett walking Wainwright, 
followed by a series of hits, 
home runs, walks, and hit 
batsmen. The inning took a 
turn for the worse when Burnett issued a walk with the 
bases loaded, and followed 
that up by giving up a single 
that allowed three runs to 
score after a throwing error by 
Byrd. Burnett gave up seven 
runs, while facing eight batters and not getting a single 
out in the entire inning.
After that point, the Pirates 
were unable to muster any sort 
of comeback and accepted 
the 91 beatdown. After the 
game, many Pirates faithfuls 
were afraid that the inevitable 
collapse the Pirates annually 
suffer had arrived, albeit this 
time in October instead of in 
July.
Rookie pitcher Gerrit Cole 
came to the rescue in Game 2, 
pitching a gem and succeeding 
where Burnett had failed. Cole 
went head-to-head with Lance 
Lynn and outdueled him, 
pitching six innings of one-hit 
ball. Cole also provided his 
own run support with an RBI 
single in the second inning to 
start off the Pirates run parade. They scored two more 
runs in both the third and ?fth 
innings, followed by insurance 
runs in the seventh and eighth 
innings.
The previously dominant 
Cardinals offense was held to 
only four hits, as the Pirates 
bullpen  known as the Shark 
Tank  pitched three shutout 
innings to ?nish off Coles sterling performance. With closer 
Jason Grilli back from injury, 
the Pirates have debatably the 
best setup closer combination 
in baseball with Mark Melancon being named an All-Star 
for his great setup work.
The Pirates are now back 
home for two games with 
a chance to close the series 
and advance to the National 
League Championship Series 
(NLCS) against the winner of 
the Atlanta Braves, Los Angeles Dodgers series. One can 
only imagine how loud Pirates fans will get if their team 
makes it not only to the NLCS 
but all the way to the World 
Series.
FEATURE PHOTOSCMU Quidditch Club ?nishes second in the Carnegie Cup
Kelsey Scott/Operations Manager
The Carnegie Cup, Pittsburghs ?rst International Quidditch Association tournament, was held Sunday on the College of Fine Arts lawn. The Steel City Quidditch Club, a Pittsburgh community team, won the tournament. 
Tartans win on the road 347 against St. Vincent College
Kelsey Scott/Operations Manager
Senior safety Jack Butler (left) returns an interception. Senior quarterback Rob Kalkstein (right) was recently selected as a semi?nalist for the 2013 William V. Campbell Trophy.
UAA Sports Standings
Mens Soccer
Univ.Conf.WLT
Brandeis101010
Rochester10811
Chicago10621
Wash. U.001622
Emory001731
CMU01721
CWRU01523
Chicago01631
Volleyball
Univ.Conf.WL
Emory30211
Chicago30145
NYU21182
Wash. U.21145
CMU12166
Brandeis12912
CWRU03912
Rochester03716
Football
Univ.Conf.WL
Chicago0041
CMU0032
Wash. U.0032
CWRU0013
Womens Soccer
Univ.ConfWLT
Wash. U.10910
Brandeis10820
CMU001612
Chicago001721
NYU00532
Rochester00532
Emory01731
CWRU01650
Upcoming Schedule
Mens Soccer
Oct. 12 
Carnegie Mellon at Washington University in St. Louis, 
12 p.m.
Oct. 18
Brandeis University at 
Carnegie Mellon, 1 p.m.
Womens Soccer
Oct. 12
Carnegie Mellon at Washington University in St. Louis, 
2:30 p.m.
Oct. 18
Brandeis University at 
Carnegie Mellon, 3:30 p.m.
Football
Oct. 12
Carnegie Mellon at Westminster College, 1 p.m.
Oct. 19
Carnegie Mellon at Mercer 
University, 1 p.m.
Volleyball
Oct. 1920
UAA Round Robin, Washington University in St. Louis
Mens Tennis
Oct. 13
Amherst College at Carnegie Mellon, 1 p.m.
Cross Country 
Oct. 12
Carnegie Mellon Invitational, Schenley Park, 11 a.m.
Nov. 2
UAA Championships, 
Carnegie Mellon, 11 a.m.
Swimming/Diving 
Oct. 26
Case Western Reserve 
University at Carnegie Mellon, 
1 p.m.
Nov. 2
Clarion University at Carnegie Mellon, 11 a.m.

---------------------------------------------------

10.07.13 Volume 108, Issue 7
VIA 
 
The annual music and new media event makes a ruckus in East Liberty  B8

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
Consult the comics for commentary on the 
government shutdown and mustached ducks.
11
Dollar Movie
AB Films presents the two villainous 
installments in the Despicable Me series.
7
The Tartan . Box 119 . UC Suite 103 . Carnegie Mellon University . 5000 Forbes Ave . Pittsburgh, PA 15213 . www.thetartan.org .  2013 The Tartan
PUBLISHER Jennifer Coloma EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Josh Smith
PILLBOX EDITOR Rachel Cohen ASSISTANT PILLBOX EDITOR Joey Peiser  
COMICS EDITOR Kairavi Chahal PHOTO EDITOR Kate Groschner 
COPY MANAGER Evan Kahn COVER Kelsey Scott
8
45610
regulars...
Advice
Everything you need to know about being 
sexiled and avoiding cannibalistic parents.
3
...diversions
...this week only
Art retrospective
Japanese artist Yasumasa Morimura plays with 
images of cultural icons in his work.
3
The Crucible
The School of Drama presents a stellar 
production of the Arthur Miller classic.
4
CMOA
The 2013 Carnegie International offers a 
collection of art works from around the world.
5
Gandhi
Carnegie Mellon OM hosts a mural painting in 
honor of Indias nonviolent visionary.
6
Heather Sellers
The memoirist reflects on her struggles with 
face blindness, a rare face recognition disorder.
7
VIA
The yearly music and new media festival brings 
an explosion of sights and sounds to the area.
8
J.R.R. Tolkein
Carnegie Mellon alumnus Michael Drout 
explains the success of The Lord of the Rings.
10
Puzzles
If youre new to puzzles, test the waters with 
these easy-to-medium-difficulty challenges.
13
Horoscopes
Facing a tough choice this week? Take a look 
at this weeks horoscopes for guidance.
14
Calendar
Check out this weeks calendar for arts and 
cultural happenings in the community.
15

---------------------------------------------------

art 
pillbox 10.07.133
Artist reinterprets classics
The Warhol presents Yasumasa Morimura retrospective
After giving an artist lecture in McConomy 
Auditorium last Thursday, renowned contemporary 
Japanese artist Yasumasa Morimura showed his 
work in a retrospective solo exhibit titled Yasumasa 
Morimura: Theater of the Self, which opened last 
Friday night at the Andy Warhol Museum.
Walking the line between photography and 
performance art, Morimuras work creates 
photographic reconstructions of famous people, 
paintings, and photographs, created through a 
combination of restaging the setting and creatively 
using Photoshop. What makes Morimuras work 
unique, though, is that he himself becomes the 
subject within each image, so every piece is a selfportrait.
Walking into the gallery, there is a peculiar sensation 
that you are surrounded by different versions of 
Morimuras face. The artwork is both the photograph 
and the creative performance that generated it, a 
process that often includes an entire restaging of 
the setting, elaborate stage makeup, and intricate 
costumes.
In this retrospective, Morimuras work is categorized 
into three major series: Actors, Requiem, and Art 
History. Actors is a collection of photographs in 
which Morimura has taken on the role of famous 
actresses like Marilyn Monroe, playing with 
conventional gender roles and ideas of beauty.
From a similar but more historical standpoint, 
the series Art History restages famous European 
and American paintings, again with Morimura 
substituted in. An example is the Mona Lisa: 
Pregnancy. This version of the Mona Lisa is a play 
on the original in which Morimura as Mona Lisa is 
pregnant, with the fetus visible in a round stomach.
Requiem, Morimuras most recent series, explores 
and comments on contemporary history by restaging 
famous photography. The focus here seems less on 
the individual and more on society, as Morimura 
takes on controversial figures from Hitler to Einstein.
By combining known imagery with his own, 
Morimura is able to subtly distort images and 
effectively challenge the viewers assumptions about 
what they are seeing. Morimura demonstrates how 
simple changes in context and subject can transform 
the way we view an image. Through his work, he is 
able to communicate ideas and explore the subject 
matter of identity, gender roles, and history. At 
times a little humorous, Morimuras work is more 
provocative and beautiful than disturbing.
Yasumasa Morimura will be on display at the Andy 
Warhol Museum through Jan. 12.
Sarah Moss-Horwitz | Junior Staffwriter
Courtesy of Yasumasa Morimura and Luhring Augustine
Advice for awkward people
Dear Ryan & Matt,
My roommates parents 
came to visit over the 
weekend. Somehow 
they got my number and 
friended me on Facebook 
and now theyre always 
texting me and chatting 
me asking how I am and 
how classes are going 
and if I need anything. I 
asked my roommate how 
often he hears from them, 
and he said maybe once a 
month. Im kinda creeped 
out. How do I handle this?
Sincerely,
A Doted On, Parents Too 
Eagerly Demonstrative
Dear ADOPTED,
That is seriously one 
messed-up situation. Are 
you sure they arent evil 
witches in disguise or 
something? Have they 
invited you over to their 
place for Thanksgiving and/
or winter break? If so, they 
could be planning on having 
you as the roast beast. Ask 
your roommate if hes had 
friends disappear in the past, 
particularly around times 
when his family has eaten a 
very large meal. If you trust 
your roommate, then brave 
a trip to his home because, 
hey, thats what friends do. 
Just know that they could 
be playing you to get a taste 
of your sweet, sweet human 
flesh.
On the other hand, you 
totally dont have to be nice 
to them. Theyre not your 
parents after all.
Have you ever tried 
Soylent Green? It is 
delicious.
Ryan & Matt
Dear Ryan & Matt,
Every night since last 
Thursday Ive been forced 
to sleep on a friends floor 
because my roommate 
has been with some new 
guy. Last night, I went to 
the bathroom, and when 
I got back the door was 
locked! I can take a hint, 
but this is getting crazy. 
When does it end?
Help, 
Every Night Obliging 
Uncouth Girl Having 
Sexual Encounters 
XTREME
Dear ENOUGH SEX,
I feel for you; there was one 
time in Vegas. Wait, I dont 
know if I can go into details. 
The most important thing 
is not to freak out. Dont 
retaliate violently, unless of 
course you come back and 
your bed is the one messed 
up. Be gracious, and you 
are liable to be afforded 
the same respect later on. 
I recommend thanking the 
hallmates who hosted you, 
possibly with baked goods. 
People love chocolate, and 
maybe they will help you 
sexile your roommate once 
or twice.
Youre sure your 
roommate didnt just 
forget that sock on the 
door?
Ryan & Matt
Need advice? Send queries 
to advice@thetartan.org.
About parents and sexiling
Left: In Self Portrait (B/W) - After Marilyn 
Monroe, Japanese artist Yasumasa Morimura 
poses as the blond pop culture icon. Above: The 
artist pastes his face over Mao Zedongs portrait 
in A Requiem: Red Dream / Mao.
Courtesy of Yasumasa Morimura and Luhring Augustine

---------------------------------------------------

4theater
pillbox 10.07.13
The whole towns talking witchcraft! Theyll be callin us 
witches, Abby!
Carnegie Mellons School of Drama opened its 201314 
season on Friday with the American classic, The 
Crucible. Directed by Carnegie Mellon faculty member 
and alumnus Tony McKay (A69), the show features a 
strong cast led by senior acting major Brian Muller with 
a deeply moving performance as antihero John Proctor. 
The Crucible grabs your attention and holds it tight until 
long after the house lights have gone up.
Written in response to the Joseph McCarthy scares 
of the 1950s, during which countless careers in 
entertainment and elsewhere were cut short by 
accusations of Communist leanings and intent to 
sabotage the American way of life, Arthur Millers classic 
The Crucible tackles head-on the horri?c consequences 
of what happens when humans get caught up in the 
fervor of groupthink. Taking the story of a literal witch 
hunt as inspiration  the Salem Witch Trials of 1692  
Miller lays bare what exactly hysteria and wildly pointing 
?ngers can lead to. In this case, it leads to the death of 
numerous innocent people whose word was simply too 
weak against that of their accuser.
John Proctor is a respected farmer who, unbeknownst 
to the pious Puritans of Salem, has had sexual relations 
with his former servant girl Abigail Williams, played 
by senior acting major Taylor Rose. When Abigail and 
her friends are caught dancing naked in the woods by 
her uncle, Reverend Samuel Parris (senior acting major 
Jimmy Nicholas), one of them takes fright and goes 
into a stupor that is mistaken for a bewitching. Parriss 
suspicions balloon into a murmur of witchcraft that 
continues to grow as each of the girls begins claiming 
that they were bewitched in order to avoid trouble for 
breaking strict Puritan law.
As names continue to pour forth from the mouths of the 
girls, the residents of Salem have cause to watch all they 
do lest they are accused of witchcraft by a neighbor 
who covets their land or wishes to settle some longstanding score. All defense before the court is worthless; 
the accused are deemed false in all they say unless 
it be a confession of their crimes and a list of further 
names to be accused, in which case they are spared the 
guaranteed death penalty that comes with the crime of 
witchcraft.
Abigail, sensing the power she now holds in accusing 
her neighbors of witchery, decides to use her newfound 
saintly status to accuse Proctors wife Elizabeth, played 
by senior acting major Bridget Peterson, of conspiring 
with the devil so that she may ?nally ful?ll her dream of 
being with John Proctor. Proctor, realizing this, tries to 
mount a defense against Abigail and her lying followers, 
but ?nds that the truth is not so well received when it 
causes men to realize they have been fooled.
The Crucible perfectly combines an intense and gripping 
plot with equally interesting characters, providing 
a highly entertaining spectacle as well as provoking 
thought. The cast is fantastic, especially senior acting 
major John Stokers portrayal of Reverend Hale, a man 
who comes to Salem riding high on the power of the 
word of God and ?nally leaves broken and questioning all 
that he had previously poured his life into. Senior acting 
major Thomas Moores portrayal of Judge Danforth 
perfectly exhibits the kind of blind stoicism that this 
supreme man of the law is supposed to show. Mary 
Warren, the poor girl who spends much of the play trying 
to navigate the murky waters between right and wrong, 
is given a great shot of life by senior musical theater 
major Mary Nepi. Marys moments of mental anguish, 
many of which involve breaking down into hopeless 
tears in the face of Abigails immense power, are riveting 
to say the least.
The stage design lends itself greatly to the overall mood 
of the play. Long columns representing trees surround 
the raised wooden platform on which much of the 
action takes place, with the black of the rear of the stage 
suggesting an endless dark forest. This effect drove 
home the isolation and, above all, the fear that the people 
of Salem had of what may have been lurking among the 
trees in this strange land. 
In addition, throughout much of the play, villagers could 
be seen silently sitting against the trees, paying close 
attention to the words being spoken. In this forest, you 
had better watch what you say; in the Puritan village 
 as in the social media outlets of today  someone is 
always behind a tree listening.
The Crucible is a play that, when done well, can be near 
the most riveting thing one can see on stage. I confess 
that being exposed to it when I was 14 years old was 
what showed me that acting and the theater could 
do a lot more than merely provide entertainment. The 
?rst scene is one long fuse that slowly builds up to an 
explosion. By the end, the show has driven its characters 
into having to choose between their principles and their 
lives in an atmosphere where doing what is inherently 
right brings condemnation. The accused are forced to 
answer the question: Which is more valuable, your life or 
your good name?
The Crucible will be playing at the Philip Chosky Theater 
in the Purnell Center for the Arts through Sunday. 
Tickets can be purchased at the box of?ce.
Joey Peiser | Assistant Pillbox Editor
Left to Right: Abigail Williams (senior acting major 
Taylor Rose), Betty Parris (Madeline Wolf), Reverend 
Hale (senior acting major John Stoker), Tituba (senior 
Tsilala Graham-Haynes), and Thomas Putnam (senior 
Michael Campayno), react in shock as Betty exclaims a 
compact with the devil.
The Crucible bewitches theatergoers
School of Drama production takes audiences soul, but leaves them their good names
Photo courtesy of Dennis Schebetta

---------------------------------------------------

art 
pillbox 10.07.135
CMOA presents 2013 Carnegie International
Carnegie Museum of Art exhibition features 35 artists representing 19 countries
As you approach the Carnegie Museum of Art, one of 
the ?rst things youll notice is what appears to be a 
gathering of brown sticks draped in brightly colored 
paper.
This attraction welcomes visitors to Carnegie 
International, the Carnegie Museum of Arts newest 
exhibition, featuring 35 artists from 19 different 
countries. In addition to bringing world cultures to 
Pittsburgh, the Carnegie International exhibition brings 
new perspectives to both history and moments in 
everyday life.
The exhibition premiered Friday night with a private 
gala and continued throughout the opening weekend 
with other festivities, including performances from the 
artists themselves. Scattered throughout the museum 
are pieces labeled 2013 Carnegie International, 
indicating their introduction to the museum this year. In 
addition, some pieces are making reappearances from 
past Carnegie International exhibitions. Though this 
event may not be very organized, the culture brought by 
the pieces at this exhibition makes the visit worthwhile.
The ?rst installation in the Carnegie International is a 
large sign, introducing the 35 artists who are part of the 
exhibition. Upstairs, another sign indicates that parts of 
the exhibition are located in the Scaife Galleries. This 
area, currently being celebrated for its recent renovation, 
displays modern pieces that highlight events from 
both present and past and put them in a new light. 
Particularly eye-catching is the work from Croatian 
conceptual artist Mladen Stilinovic. 
Also on display is an essay written by Stilinovic, 
interestingly titled The Praise of Laziness. But before 
you start calling this guy your new role model, realize 
that Stilinovics reason for praising laziness is that it 
produces great works of art  one of the new concepts 
introduced by the Carnegie International. A room whose 
walls are lined with dictionary pages that have the word 
pain scribbled next to each word, with the de?nition 
of the word lightened to the point where it was almost 
invisible, is yet another example of Stilinovics work on 
display.
Walking through the Modern and Contemporary Room, 
visitors are exposed to paintings and various works from 
different time periods, including Georges Rouaults The 
Old King. The descriptions to the sides of the paintings 
are helpful, since what may seem like a painting of a 
king holding a ?ower is actually meant as a display of 
power contrasted with fragility. Another, simply titled 
Hoeing, is a depressing image of ?at shapes against a 
dark background to show the struggles of the poor in the 
South.
Following the modern and contemporary artwork is the 
postwar abstraction room, featuring abstract pieces from 
artists such as Phyllida Barlow and Rodney Graham, 
who gave a musical performance on Saturday. Barlows 
featured piece at the Carnegie International is a tilted 
cube covered with a collage of multicolored shapes, 
which morph painting, sculpture, architecture, and 
object into one. Another set of interesting pieces is On 
Kawaras Today paintings. On each painting are three 
different  apparently meaningless  dates painted in 
the same font. Ironically, his piece was supposed to show 
how every day is meaningful, and that every day should 
be remembered.
Another exhibit, called the Playground Project, though 
still a part of Carnegie International, is a refreshing 
change from the rest of the exhibitions artwork: It 
features artwork from children who attended summer 
camp at the Carnegie Museum of Art among other 
playground art. 
Considering that its sitting right outside the museum, 
the piece most familiar to outsiders is the Lozziwurm, 
the orange and yellow tubes that sit outside the 
Carnegie Museum of Art. The structure was initially 
designed in 1972 by Swiss artist Yvan Pestalozzi 
and is still being created by the original Lozziwurm 
manufacturer, according to the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. 
In an effort to make the museums entrance appear 
friendlier, curators ordered one from the manufacturer 
and brought it to the museum as a playground for 
children. Interestingly enough, the Lozziwurm comes 
in a kit that can be assembled in a variety of ways, 
and has openings through which children can climb. 
The Lozziwurm, though placed outside, is still a part of 
the Playground Project; the rest is situated inside the 
museum.
The rest of the Playground Project exhibit might seem 
cute to some and creepy to others. Televisions showing 
videos of children at play are scattered throughout the 
exhibit, in addition to photos of unique and artistic 
playgrounds from around the world. The museum 
also displays some of the childrens artwork, and has 
arranged the pieces together to create something new. 
Though this section of the Carnegie International is 
somewhat strange, it is intriguing as well, especially the 
section in which children had to add shapes to a normal 
photograph, such as that of a building, in order to make 
it into a playground.
Though it may initially seem intimidating to have to 
?nd your own way through the exhibits featured in the 
Carnegie International, you will eventually get lost in the 
maze of art until returning to the beginning. Instead of 
confusing viewers with complex meanings, these pieces 
all have something to teach, or at least have something 
to say. The Carnegie International will be open until 
March 16, so there is time for everyone to see it.
Nikita Mishra | Staffwriter
Photo courtesy of Carnegie Museum of Art
Rokni Haerizadehs Reign of Winter is one of many 
pieces displayed throughout the Carnegie Museum of 
Art as part of the Carnegie International exhibition.

---------------------------------------------------

6community
pillbox 10.07.13
Mahatma Gandhi is often attributed with saying, Be the 
change you wish to see in the world.
Taking inspiration from the life of Gandhi, Carnegie 
Mellon students from OM, a campus organization 
for Indian spirituality and culture, worked with 
the Pittsburgh nonpro?t Moving the Lives of Kids 
Community Mural Project (MLK Mural) to create a mural 
of Gandhi on the side of Indian restaurant Coriander in 
Squirrel Hill on Sunday.
The mural is the grand ?nale to the Two Weeks of Peace 
and Gandhis birthday celebration that occurred all over 
campus through service projects, free hugs, lectures, 
and a screening of the ?lm Gandhi in McConomy 
Auditorium.
Initially we wanted to make it a service project by 
working with a student group, but we decided instead 
to make it an event for OM and CMU students to do 
to celebrate the end of Gandhi Week, said sophomore 
electrical and computer engineering major Divya 
Kothandapani, who coordinated the mural painting.
The design for the mural was chosen through a contest 
by OM that sought submissions from talented Carnegie 
Mellon students. The winning design was submitted by 
senior art major Adelaide Cole, who was inspired by the 
intricacy of henna designs, the Indian art of ink-drawing 
on hands. Cole chose to use color symbolically, with 
orange fading into blue to symbolize the unity of people: 
She described orange as representative of the universal 
skin color, while blue is a symbol of peace.
MLK Mural is a Pittsburgh-based group of people who 
identify as both artists and community organizers. 
Through mural painting, they reach toward the goal of 
community progression by strengthening and bringing 
communities together.
A multifaceted organization, MLK Mural launches 
projects that range from working with youth groups, 
painting commissioned work. The organization also 
hosts a summer work program for at-risk teenagers to 
teach life skills such as collaboration in work settings. 
Muralist Kyle Holbrook of Wilkinsburg, Pa. started MLK 
Mural in 2007. It has since expanded to projects across 
the nation with of?ces in Pittsburgh, Miami, and Atlanta. 
Holbrook says, The murals let people take pride in their 
neighborhoods. People will tell me how they change 
where they walk just to see the mural because it makes 
such a difference.
Over the last six years, MLK Mural has created over 
260 murals in Pittsburgh alone, including 13 this past 
summer. Its an impressive feat, but more impressive is 
the number of young people that have been involved in 
the projects, which is well over 5,000.
A delicious lunch was provided by Coriander and a 
rough sketch of Gandhi was well under way  the 
energy grew as local kids and volunteers eagerly picked 
up paintbrushes to join the effort.
Sarah Moss-Horwitz | Junior Staffwriter
Editors note: Adelaide Cole is a staff artist for The 
Tartan.
Students begin work on Gandhi mural
OM sponsors the grand ?nale to a two-week celebration of the pioneer of nonviolent protest
Courtesy of Adelaide Cole
The result of a campus-wide call for submissions, the 
murals design is the work of senior art major Adelaide 
Cole.

---------------------------------------------------

literature 
pillbox 10.07.137
Writer Heather Sellers addressed a room full of avid 
listeners in the Gladys Schmitt Creative Writing Center 
on Monday  several of whom were friends, literary 
colleagues, and students she met in classes she had 
lectured in earlier that day. But as far as Sellers could tell, 
she could have been talking to a group of total strangers.
Sellers has prosopagnosia, or face blindness, a rare 
disorder that impairs the brains ability to recognize 
faces. Though her diagnosis came relatively recently, 
Sellerss disorder has become a central topic in the work 
she has created since, including her memoir, You Dont 
Look Like Anyone I Know.
Sellers was almost theatrical in her description of the 
disorder. Her distinctive sense of humor  purposefully 
spacey in tone yet still sharp and intelligent  kept 
listeners laughing and engaged throughout her 
presentation.
In the years before her diagnosis, Sellers knew 
something was wrong, but couldnt quite identify the 
disconnect. Something ?nally clicked, however, when 
she stumbled across the words face recognition in a 
bookstore. After a number of doctor visits and tests, she 
at last had her diagnosis. While her reaction was in part 
relief, the biggest hurdle lay ahead: coming out to her 
friends and colleagues about her face blindness.
Delving into her personal trials with the disorder, Sellers 
discussed the disadvantages and even a few advantages 
to her condition. For the most part, prosopagnosia has 
presented a unique set of dif?culties for her, inhibiting 
her socially and even costing her at least one close 
friendship.
But this disorder has also been somewhat advantageous, 
she says. Scienti?cally speaking, more attractive faces 
have more in common with each other  meaning 
that growing up, Sellers was always drawn to the social 
outcasts who were more distinctive in appearance, a 
quirkier group of people. As a result, Sellers re?ected, 
she had a more interesting and diverse group of friends.
At one point, Sellers opened a copy of her memoir and 
read a passage in the same theatrical voice she used 
to discuss face blindness: She adopted a friends deep 
Southern drawl as she recreated her coming out as 
face blind over the phone to him. Her dramatic ?air, 
both literary and vocal, kept her audience riveted and 
entertained.
While the topic of prosopagnosia is fascinating  
and Sellers spoke about it engagingly and eloquently 
 it was somewhat disappointing that so many of 
the questions from the audience addressed her face 
blindness rather than her craft. Despite the exhaustive 
questions, Sellers answered each with clear enthusiasm, 
making an effort to immerse her listeners in her own 
experiences with face blindness.
Between Sellerss dynamism as a speaker and her 
energetic sense of humor, the talk could easily have 
continued for double its allotted time. After the reading, 
curious audience members ?ocked to Sellers as they 
waited for refreshments to arrive.
Rachel Cohen | Pillbox Editor
Sellers discusses face blindness in her work
Writer and memoirist Sellers discusses prosopagnosia, a rare facial recognition disorder
Andie Park | Junior Staffwriter
In one of the cutest animated comedies in recent years, Steve Carrell voices the 
villainous Gru who adopts three little girls and lives a happy life in suburbia. However, 
the neighbors dont know that Gru is devising a master plan, which if successful will 
establish Gru as the most powerful villain: to shrink and steal the moon. Along with his 
adorable army of minions, Gru embarks on his challenge to become the most powerful 
villain ever. Despicable Me is a zany and genuine comedy that has enough heart to be a 
memorable family ?ick for all ages.
Despicable Me
Thursday, Oct. 10  Friday, Oct. 11 
7:30 9:30  7
Despicable Me 2
Friday, Oct. 11
9 11
Everybodys favorite villain is back. After settling into a calm and happy family life, Gru 
has put aside his dreams of becoming a villain and focuses more on being a father to 
his three adopted daughters. But when the Anti-Villain League pleads for Grus help 
?ghting a powerful new supervillain, Gru and his girls partner with an agent named Lucy 
to bring the villain to justice. Anyone looking for more minion madness should check 
out the sequel that proves to be just as energetic and funny as the original.
dollarmovie
McConomy Auditorium, University Center

---------------------------------------------------

feature 
pillbox 10.07.1398feature 
pillbox 10.07.13
The 2013 VIA Music & New Media Festival, a weeklong showcase of contemporary art, music, and lectures, 
occurred this past week from Tuesday to Sunday. VIA is 
a Pittsburgh-based creative collective founded in 2010 
that produces year-round series of performances  but 
VIAs biggest event is the festival, drawing artists from 
local Pittsburgh musicians to performers from Bulgaria 
and Berlin. VIA takes much pride in its integration 
with the Pittsburgh community, collaborating with the 
city in various ways, such as by taking over previously 
abandoned buildings for performances and exhibitions. 
VIAs love for Pittsburgh is evident in the amount 
of work, planning, and dedication that must go into 
developing a festival with the wide variety of artists and 
performers seen in the past week.
Friday A / V Showcase
The street that hosted Fridays A / V showcase was 
very dark, but the venue itself featured glass windows 
that revealed a bright white room and colors bouncing 
through from the darker rooms. Walking in, visitors could 
step onto a green platform run by TechShop, a business 
whose members can use tools like 3-D imaging and 
laser printers. TechShop took 3-D images of visitors that 
were then made into avatars, which were used in the art 
throughout the night.
The ?rst dark room featured the musicians performing on 
a stage boundried by translucent screens. DJ Yung Moth 
and hip-hop collaboration Banjee Report, who shared 
the stage, were incredibly different, yet the room molded 
itself to accommodate them both. All of the musicians 
were ?anked by a piece called 
#h3DSpace-Greenscreen, a collaboration between 
many groups  including TechShop and the Carnegie 
Mellon School of Drama  and video interludes by 
Casey Jane Ellison x Miss Daddie.
Yung Moth was a minimalist performer, an introvert on 
stage. She delivered what might have been a very ?at 
performance if not for the moving images surrounding 
her. Yung Moth allowed her audiences to listen, taking a 
back seat to the art. There were wiggling worms made 
out of stomachs and an avatar dancing to a picture 
frame. The images were bizarre and somewhat random 
but exciting.
Banjee Report connected more with the crowd. While 
Yung Moth let the art wash over her  the projector 
literally covered her with images  Report moved and 
worked more in conjunction with the videos around 
them. Banjee was very high-energy, and its members 
were really quite good rappers. Especially captivating 
was the way they moved and danced around stage: As a 
group, they made a lot of strong images that worked well 
with the art around them. The green colors, the skulls, 
and even the pro?le of an elderly man that surrounded 
them worked with their gritty style.
Between the performances, an artist came through 
with an arcade game strapped to his back  a custom 
VIA game that involved moving a ball through different 
pieces of art.
In the next room was a collection of video works called 
Acid Rain Re?ux. This piece used a combination of many 
media: digital video, cartoons, videos of real people, 
interviews, clips from movies, and occasionally pieces 
of text. Often a few were combined in one frame. For 
example, one piece showed a real girl moving through 
digital ?owers. The text served as titles, summations, or 
just messages like shine on you crzy diamond or Own 
this.
These displays featured music, some vocal and other 
instrumental; most notably, there was a track of different 
intensities of the same pitch. At times it could hardly be 
heard, while other times it shook the metal tubes on the 
ceiling, the vibrations ear-crushingly intense. An avatar 
was projected on the opposite wall, her look bashful as 
she moved in distinct and unsettling ways: Watching the 
other wall, one could feel her staring.
A large conference room showed a video reel of a few 
different artists. These videos felt one-dimensional, 
and everyone moved through this room quickly. The 
atmosphere of the night was not patient, and the videos 
were repetitive and took a long time to build. They 
seemed too simple amid the energy of the other rooms.
The venue was untidy around the edges, but in a way 
that did not detract from the illusions of the night. The 
venue served the display well because the rooms ?owed 
into each other and the dim lighting made every step 
seem adventurous and every shock to the senses very 
effective. A faint blue light illuminated everything, and 
wire fencing covered empty rooms and walls. Seats were 
available, but everyone just kept moving, sensing an 
urgency to move on to the next room. Everywhere, there 
was something new.
VIA Music & New Media Festival celebrates the arts in Pittsburgh
Week-long event inhabits abandoned buildings for art installations and performances while providing an eclectic variety of offerings to suit any taste 
Detroit-based synth pop duo ADULT. got attendees moving and sweating at Saturdays A / V Showcase as part of 
the 2013 VIA Festival.
                  Martha Paterson | Junior Photographer
Martha Paterson | Junior Staffwriter
      Gwen Luvara | Junior Staffwriter[]
Saturday A / V Showcase
Saturdays A / V showcase began much like it did Friday 
night  the popup venue came in the form of the former 
Family Resources building on Baum Boulevard. Because 
Vessel, one of the nights performers, was delayed in 
Mexico City, the set times were reshuf?ed.
Local Pittsburgh performer Trogpite opened the 
performances with his intelligent-dance-musicin?uenced hard techno, a mid-energy performance 
that greeted arriving concertgoers with a chill, visual 
introduction to the night.
The night really kicked off with the Detroit-based duo 
ADULT., which consists of Nicola Kuperus on vocals 
and Adam Lee Miller mixing. Their infectious distorted 
synth-pop worked the audience into a sweaty, dancing 
frenzy, and ADULT. had no qualms about audience 
interaction. Kuperus slid off the stage and wove her 
way through the crowd, dancing with people. Upon 
returning to the stage, she wryly summed up the entire 
VIA experience: You guys are such good dancers, but 
seriously very sweaty and hot. Near the end of their 
set, a random audience member hopped onstage and 
danced by himself, prompting the perplexed but amused 
Kuperus to remark on his ?exibility while Miller laughed 
to the side. Their set remained on the same high-energy 
level until they thanked their audience and disappeared 
from the stage.
Up next was Vessel, fresh and excited despite his delay 
in Mexico City earlier that day. He followed ADULT.s 
more danceable set with an intricately textured and 
multilayered house-inspired performance. The visuals, 
which took a backseat during ADULT., came back in full 
force with Vessel, thanks in part to a screen between the 
stage and the audience that allowed for another layer 
of projections to emerge. His set gave the audience a 
much-needed break from dancing and an opportunity 
to explore the other rooms of the venue, which 
featured independent art, ?lm projects, and a jousting 
competition with multicolored ?ashlights instead of 
swords.
After Vessels set, the energy picked back up with the 
Bulgarian DJ KiNK. The sweat that evaporated in the 
hour that Vessel played returned with a vengeance 
thanks to the high-energy, beat-heavy dance music 
KiNK introduced to the venue. KiNK himself was a 
joyous performer, taking short breaks from mixing on 
his computer to pump his ?sts in the air and greet the 
audience with a wide grin that did nothing to hide how 
thrilled he was to play. His show combined two elements 
of the sets before  vigorously energetic music like that 
of ADULT. and the visual-heavy performance of Vessel 
 into a wholly unique and thrilling set.
As KiNKs set came to a close around 2:30 a.m., the 
hordes of people who had attended events all week 
and danced all evening started to peel away to catch a 
much-needed break. The ?nal performer, Berlin-based 
Hunee, played to a smaller, lower-energy crowd, which 
allowed for a more intimate set as the night wore on. 
The venue closed at 4 a.m., but the night didnt end 
there  those who were still in the mood to dance could 
go to the Mens Room afterparty at Hot Mass to dance 
until 7 a.m. and watch the sun rise.
VIA as a whole pushes boundaries and reinvents what 
it means to make art. Its nothing short of a blessing that 
the experience continues yearlong, and it doesnt end 
with the festival. VIA provides more than just a week 
(and a year) of good shows  their gift to their audience 
is the ?erce sense of Pittsburgh pride that permeates 
every venue, exhibition, and performance.
Martha Paterson | Junior Photographer
Vessel complemented his house-inspired music with interesting visuals projected onto a screen at Saturdays A / V 
Showcase as part of the 2013 VIA Festival.
Martha Paterson | Junior Photographer
Bulgarian dance music artist DJ KiNK kept the 
energy going and the crowd dancing at Saturdays 
A / V Showcase as part of the 2013 VIA Festival. 

---------------------------------------------------

10literature 
pillbox 10.07.13
Students, faculty, and even some children came to the 
Wean 7500 lecture hall last Thursday to hear How to 
Read J.R.R. Tolkien, a part of the Carol Brown Lecture 
Series sponsored by the English department. Giving the 
lecture was Michael D.C. Drout (DC90), who currently 
teaches Old and Middle English, science ?ction, and the 
works of Tolkien at Wheaton College in Norton, Mass. 
The lecture addressed the reasons why Tolkien works 
have remained a mainstay in popular culture, and Drout 
discussed the ways in which Tolkien managed to make 
parts of his works seem genuinely old.
Tolkien is easy to read, Drout said, Its part of popular 
culture, not literature. When polled, a high percentage 
of readers claimed that reading Tolkien was a different 
experience than authors like James Joyce, because it did 
not require the same in-depth thought process.
Drout described how Tolkien uses the least 
knowledgeable character as the main point of view 
 for example, the hobbits in The Lord of the Rings  
and what Drout calls the epistemic regime, in which 
characters make casual references to events and 
people that the main character and the reader do not 
understand. These elements work together to create the 
sensation that the reader and main character are sharing 
experiences and feelings.
Drout also discussed how Tolkien was able to create 
the impression that his works are part of a larger 
textual tradition by using broken references, which he 
compared to physical ruins. Gaps and inconsistencies 
are the most interesting parts of a text, he said, 
referring back to missing pages and sections from works 
like Beowulf, and pondering whether readers would 
enjoy these works as much if they understood every 
single reference.
The use of the least knowledgeable character, the 
epistemic regime, and the impression of a textual 
tradition all work together to entwine the past and 
present together and create a sense of nostalgia in 
Tolkiens works. 
The textual tradition serves to distance the reader from 
the text and enforces the absolute pastness of the past; 
at the same time, the desire to understand it creates the 
intense love for the unrecoverable past, Drout said.
Drout seemed a natural lecturer, punctuating his 
discussion with jokes and anecdotes about his time 
here at Carnegie Mellon  he even managed to throw 
in a story about his booth-building days with Phi 
Kappa Theta. At times, he took on a more personal 
tone, emphasizing his close relationship with English 
department faculty  most signi?cantly professor Peggy 
Knapp, whom he cites as the reason for his career focus. 
These casual references to his personal experiences 
circled back to his main points about nostalgia and 
cultural references.
The lecture was able to pinpoint aspects of the text 
and writing style that make Tolkiens works enjoyable, 
without taking away the joy of reading  something 
that literary analysis often does. All you wanted to do at 
the end of the lecture was pick up one of the novels to 
really see how well Tolkien pulled off the sense that his 
stories were part of a larger cultural context.
Mairad Pettit | Junior Staffwriter 
Drout presents one lecture to rule them all
Wheaton College professor discusses Tolkiens works and reasons for their popularity
Wheaton College professor Michael Drout shares 
his knowledge of Tolkien as well as stories from his 
Carnegie Mellon experience. 
Kate Groschner | Photo Editor
Photo courtesy of Wikimedia Commons

---------------------------------------------------

comics
pillbox 10.07.1311
Symbols by Doghouse Diaries
doghousediaries@gmail.comdoghousediaries.com
Poorly Drawn Lines by Reza Faramand
poorlydrawnlines@gmail.compoorlydrawnlines.com
Piled Higher and Deeper by Jorge Cham
jorge@phdcomics.comphdcomics.com

---------------------------------------------------

12comics
pillbox 10.07.13
Chans Life by Karen Nguyen
kanguyen@andrew.cmu.edu
Kiltie As Charged by Charlie Shulman and Kairavi Chahal
cshulman@andrew.cmu.edu

---------------------------------------------------

puzzles
pillbox 10.07.1313
Solutions from Sep. 30
CrosswordEasy DifficultyHard Difficulty
Kakuro Puzzle: Easy Difficulty Sudoku Puzzle: Medium Difficulty
Sudoku courtesy of
www.opensky.ca/~jdhildeb/software/sudokugen/Kakuro courtesy of www.KrazyDad.com
Fill all empty squares using numbers 1 to 9 so the sum of 
each row equals the clue on its left, and the sum of each 
column equals the clue above it. No number may be used 
in the same row or column more than once.

---------------------------------------------------

14horoscopes
pillbox 10.07.13
1. ___-Locka, Florida
2. Free
3. From ___ Z
4. Filmic
5. Percolate
6. Actor Stoltz
7. Island in the South China Sea
8. Camp sights
9. Skin marking, often due to injury
10. High-kicking dance
11. For want of ___...
12. Sensation provided by buds on the 
tongue
13. Remains
21. Happenings
22. Likenesses
23. Actress Spacek
24. Detest
25. Mob scenes
29. Governs
30. Sweatbox
32. Composer Mahler
33. Belonging to them
34. Without ___ in the world
35. Herring type
36. Writers of verse
44. Teases
45. Wears away
46. Toxin
48. Two-legged support
49. Pal, south of the border
50. Nuremberg trial defendant
51. Attempts
52. The brainy bunch
54. Building additions
55. Expectant desire
59. Not in
60. Citrus cooler
61. And not
1. Delphic shrine
7. Elevs.
10. Burmese, Manx, and Scottish 
Fold
14. One who feels bad
15. Former nuclear agcy.
16. Med school subj.
17. Title of reverence for God
18. One ___ million
19. Rocket launcher
20. Peculiarity
23. Mother of Isaac
26. ___ deferens
27. Men
28. Large wading bird
29. Stimpys pal
30. Japanese honorific
31. Firearm
33. Childrens game
34. Snake
37. Drunkard
38. Last: Abbr.
39. Color
40. USN rank
41. Decade divs.
42. Paris possessive
43. Catch
45. Aliens, briefly
46. Actress Zadora
47. Part of Q.E.D.
48. Iraqi port
51. Craggy hill
52. Confronts
53. Reduced to poverty
56. Splotchy
57. Fleur-de-___
58. Borrowed
62. Arch type
63. The fifth sign of the zodiac
64. Pretended
65. Actress Diana
66. Common ID
67. Christian festival
ACROSSDOWN
Horoscopes
aries
march 21april 19
Things dont have to change, but remember that you are 
the only one who can change them.
taurus
april 20may 20
They say you cant miss what you never had. Think 
carefully, however, about how you missed an opportunity 
and whether or not you can get it back.
gemini
may 21june 21
You are divided between two choices, but you need to 
make a decision soon.
cancer
june 22july 22
Dont get too caught up in the money; do it because you 
love it.
leo
july 23aug. 22 
You could focus on the negatives, or you could ignore them 
and have fun.
virgo
aug. 23sept. 22
You can study all you want, but at some point you have to 
go out into the world and get real experience.
libra
sept. 23oct. 22
Dont blindly follow others leads. Trust your own judgment 
instead.
scorpio
oct. 23nov. 21
Dont be ashamed of your mistakes  accept them and 
learn from them.
sagittarius
nov. 22dec. 21
Learn to apologize when you are wrong.
capricorn
dec. 22jan. 19
You are probably right, but you should have to struggle hard 
to reach that conclusion  dont take it for granted.
aquarius
jan. 20feb. 18
It might seem like life will never run out of ways to torture 
you, but relief is coming.
pisces
feb. 19march 20
Recently you have forgotten how hard it was to reach 
where you are; be careful not to take things too lightly.
Kairavi Chahal | Comics Editor
Crossword courtesy of BestCrosswords.com

---------------------------------------------------

calendar 
pillbox 10.07.1315
MONDAY10.7.13
How to Change Your Mind. Baker Hall 136A. 4:30 p.m.
In a talk sponsored by the Carnegie Mellon Humanist League, 
Julia Galef, the founder and president of the Center for Applied 
Rationality, will discuss applications of Bayesianism in the context 
of everyday life.
School of Architecture Lecture Series: Takahura Tezuka. 
Carnegie Lecture Hall. 6:30 p.m.
The School of Architecture welcomes Takaharu Tezuka of the 
Japanese ?rm Tezuka Architects. Tezuka will discuss the ?rms 
installation run run run in the Playground Project exhibition of 
the 2013 Carnegie International. The installation introduces the 
Fuji Kindergarten, a large outdoor structure designed for children.
Ra Ra Riot. Mr. Smalls Theatre (400 Lincoln Ave.). 7 p.m.
The Syracuse-based indie rock band will perform at Mr. Smalls 
Theatre. Tickets are $16, and the event is open to all ages.
TUESDAY10.8.13
Nine Inch Nails. Peterson Events Center, University of 
Pittsburgh (3719 Terrace St.) 7:30 p.m. 
Critically acclaimed rock/metal band will perform at Pitt in a 
show featuring spectacular visual elements. Tickets range from 
$50$150.
WEDNESDAY10.9.13
The Pigeoning. 937 Liberty Ave. 7 p.m.
The Pigeoning is an original and darkly comedic work that 
chronicles what happens when an obsessive compulsive man 
collides with a ?ock of pigeons, ultimately exploring the human 
condition. Hosted by the Arts Pass Program as part of the 
Pittsburgh International Festival of Firsts, this performance 
continues through Saturday.
Its Dark Outside. Trust Arts Education Center (805 Liberty 
Ave.). 9 p.m.
Inspired by experiences with Alzheimers and Sundowners 
Syndromes, short ?lmmaker and caricaturist Tim Watts presents 
a new production in collaboration with Arielle Gray and Chris 
Isaacs. The performance features elements of puppetry, mask, 
animation, live performance, and an original music score by 
award-winning composer Rachael Dease. Hosted by the Arts 
Pass Program, this performance will run through Saturday.
THURSDAY10.10.13
Andy Awards Ceremony. McConomy Auditorium. Noon.
The annual Carnegie Mellon Andy Awards will be presented to 
individual staff members and teams whose work has signi?cantly 
in?uenced the university. Awards are presented in six categories: 
dedication, commitment to students, innovation, culture, 
university citizenship, and university contributions. A reception in 
Rangos Hall will follow the ceremony.
Tim Stretton Lecture: Usury, Equity and Shakespeares The 
Merchant of Venice. GHC 4215. 4:30 p.m.
The Pittsburgh Consortium for Medieval and Renaissance 
Studies welcomes Tim Stretton, professor of history at Saint 
Marys University in Halifax, Nova Scotia. Strettons research 
focuses on the social history of law and litigation in Britain, with a 
concentration in womens legal rights and intersections between 
law and literature in early modern England.
Faculty Recital: Sergey Schepkin, piano. 
Kresge Theatre (College of Fine Arts building.) 8 p.m.
Sergey Schepkin, a Carnegie Mellon associate professor of 
piano, will perform Johann Sebastion Bachs French Suite No. 
4 in E-?at, BWV 815, Ludwig van Beethovens Sonata No. 31 in 
A-?at, Op. 110, and Franz Schuberts Piano Sonata No. 20 in A 
Major, D. 959. Admission to the recital is free.
FRIDAY10.11.13
CAUSE Speakers Series: Clement A. Price. 
Steinberg Auditorium (Baker Hall A53). 4:30 p.m.
The Center for Africanamerican Urban Studies and the Economy 
(CAUSE) presents Clement A. Price, Board of Governors 
Distinguished Service Professor of History at Rutgers University. 
Price will give a lecture titled When the Margin Becomes the 
Center: African American History and the Public Transformation 
of History, Memory and Place, which identi?es the ways in which 
African-American history, once invisible, has become an integral 
topic of American historical scholarship.
SATURDAY10.12.13
CMU Night at the PSO. Heinz Hall (600 Penn Ave.). 8 p.m.
The Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra will celebrate its 
connections with the Carnegie Mellon community with 
discounted ticket prices for its Saturday night concert. The 
program includes Samuel Barbers Adagio for Strings and 
Mozarts Piano Concerto No. 21, performed by soloist Yulianna 
Avdeeva. Tickets start at $15 for students and $20 for faculty, 
staff, and alumni and include the preconcert reception (cash bar). 
To reserve tickets, visit pittsburghsymphony.org/cmunight or call 
Group Sales at 412-392-4819.
SUNDAY10.13.13
Carnegie Mellon Philharmonic Chamber Orchestra. 
Carnegie Music Hall. 7:30 p.m.
The Carnegie Mellon Philharmonic Chamber Orchestra will 
perform Beethovens Leonore Overture No. 3, Igor Stravinskys 
Pulcinella Suite, and Sergei Proko?evs Symphony No. 1 in D 
Major, Classical. Guest conductor Joseph Silverstein will solo 
with the orchestra for Mozarts Violin Concerto No. 4 in D Major.
ONGOING
The Crucible. Phillip Chosky Theater (Purnell Center for the 
Arts). Through Oct. 12.
The School of Drama presents a production of the classic 
American drama The Crucible, written by playwright Arthur Miller 
in the context of mid-century McCarthyism. Featuring stellar 
performances from School of Drama students, the play examines 
the witch hunt in both historical and symbolic contexts. For 
tickets, visit the box of?ce on the ?rst ?oor of Purnell Center for 
the Arts.
Express Burlesque. Cabaret at Theater Square. 8 p.m. 
Through Oct. 12.
This exciting, burlesque-style dance revue combines an old 
burlesque feel with a provocative-yet-classy twist of today.
Defending the Caveman. Cabaret at Theater Square. 8 p.m. 
Through Oct. 20.
This one-man comedy show features humorous insights 
regarding gender and relationships.
Our Town. OReilly Theater (621 Penn Ave.). Through Oct. 26.
The Thornton Wilder classic about life in a small town  and 
just how extraordinary such a life can be  will be brought to 
the stage in an upcoming production at the OReilly Theater on 
Penn Avenue in Pittsburgh, directed by Ted Pappas and starring 
Pittsburghs own Tom Atkins. For performance dates and tickets, 
visit trustarts.culturaldistrict.org.
Roads of Arabia. Carnegie Museum of Natural History. 
Through Nov. 3.
This exhibit transports visitors to the sands of Saudi Arabia, 
where recent archaeological ?nds rede?ne our understanding of 
the region. For more information, visit carnegiemnh.org.
14th International Exhibition of Botanical Art & Illustration. 
Hunt Institute for Botanical Documentation (Hunt Library, Fifth 
Floor). Through Dec. 19. 
The exhibition will include 41 pieces of artwork by 41 artists 
from 10 countries. The Institute established the International 
series in 1964 with the hope of supporting and encouraging 
contemporary botanical artists. Every three years the 
International series features the works of talented botanical 
artists from around the world.
Yasumasa Morimura: Theater of the Self. The Andy Warhol 
Museum. Through Jan. 12
In this retrospective exhibit presented by the Andy Warhol 
Museum, Japanese artist Yasumasa Morimura plays with images 
of well-known cultural icons, placing his own face over portraits 
of ?gures like Marilyn Monroe and Mao Zedong to produce a 
provocative art collection. Admission to the museum is free with 
Carnegie Mellon ID. For more information, visit warhol.org.
Alien She. Miller Gallery (Purnell Center for the Arts). Through 
Feb. 16.
This exhibit examines the in?uence of Riot Grrrl, an underground 
feminist punk rock movement that surfaced in the 90s, on 
artists and cultural producers today. Admission to the Miller 
Gallery is free and open to the public. For more information, visit 
millergallery.cfa.cmu.edu.
Janine Antoni. The Mattress Factory. Through March 30.
Margery King, the curator who ?rst introduced Yayoi Kusama 
to the Mattress Factory, presents the work of multimedia 
contemporary artist Janine Antoni, who focuses on issues of 
femininity and the female body. Admission to the museum is 
free with Carnegie Mellon student ID. For more information, visit 
mattress.org.
Chiharu Shiota. The Mattress Factory. Through May 31.
The Mattress Factory presents a site-speci?c installation from 
Japanese performance and installation artist Chiharu Shiota. 
The installation will ?ll eight rooms in the museums main building 
on Sampsonia Way. Shiota is known for creating powerful 
yet delicate installations, and her work explores themes of 
remembrance, oblivion, childhood, and anxiety, toeing the line 
between waking life and memory.
Compiled by Rachel Cohen | Pillbox Editor
Want your event here?
Email calendar@thetartan.org.

---------------------------------------------------

16gallery 
pillbox 10.07.13
Sara Remi Fields | Junior Phtographer
Indie pop group Chairlift gave a concert in Rangos Hall on Friday night 
in an event sponsored by AB Coffeehouse. Local indie rock group The 
Artless opened, and the concert was free and open to the public.
concert.
