FORUMSPORTSPILLBOX
Carnegie Mellons student newspaper since 1906
Halloween costume ideas right from your closet  B6Swimming and diving teams win big in ?rst meet  A10Wearable devices create questions about privacy  A7
thetartan.org
@thetartan
October 28, 2013
Volume 108, Issue 9
President Suresh elected to Institute of Medicine
CHRIS GALVIN
Junior Staffwriter
The Institute of Medicine 
honored President Subra 
Suresh by electing him as a 
member of the institute in 
recognition of his research in 
cell mechanics on Oct. 21.
This honor from the Institute of Medicine, in addition 
to Sureshs previous honors 
from the National Academy 
of Sciences and the National 
Academy of Engineering, 
make Suresh one of 16 Americans to be elected to all three 
national academies.
Being in all three academies is a very small group 
of people, and I am particularly pleased that it happened 
while I am at CMU, because 
CMU is very well known for 
interdisciplinary research and 
that is what I practiced over 
the last many years, Suresh 
said.
Suresh is the only current university president and 
?rst Carnegie Mellon faculty 
member to have earned this 
recognition.
 Including Suresh, there 
are 41 Carnegie Mellon faculty members who are members of the National Academy 
of Engineering, 11 in the National Academy of Sciences, 
and four in the Institute of 
Medicine.
It was a pleasant surprise. 
I feel very honored, especially 
being an engineer, to be included in the medical community [because] biomedical work is very satisfying, 
Suresh continued.
The Institute of Medicine is 
an independent organization 
that seeks to provide expert 
advice on some of the most 
pressing challenges facing the 
nation and the world, helping 
to shape policies, inform public opinion, and advance the 
pursuit of science, engineering and medicine, as stated 
on the organizations website.
Speaking of the Institute 
and the National Academies, 
Suresh said, They have a 
unique platform because its 
an independent organization 
with people from academia, 
industry, policy, et cetera. 
They are often asked by government to provide advice, 
and when they provide advice, they get attention, because its an honori?c society.
For example, the Institute of Medicine came out 
with a report on a number 
of diseases, including topics 
such as obesity in the country, 
what policies should be there, 
things like Alzheimers, brain 
diseases, Suresh said. 
As a member, you are 
likely to be invited more to 
See MEDICINE, A3
Two university deans to end terms after this year
Courtesy of Randal Bryant
Bryant to leave SCS dean role
DC dean Lehoczky ends term
File photo by Aseem Gupta
CMU outlines drug and alcohol policies
NOL UM
News Co-Editor
Carnegie Mellon released 
its annual drug and alcohol 
brochure, which highlighted 
the schools policies regarding drug and alcohol use, last 
Monday.
In a foreword in the brochure, President Subra Suresh 
wrote, While the university 
maintains strict policies regarding the illegal use of alcohol and drugs, we also offer 
help for any individual who 
is experiencing substance use 
dif?culties.
According to the Fire and 
Safety Report released earlier 
in the semester, 42 liquor law 
arrests, 17 disciplinary actions 
with respect to liquor laws, 
and 10 drug law arrests occurred at Carnegie Mellon last 
year.
Dean of Student Affairs 
Gina Casalegno emphasized 
that alcohol is allowed for students of legal drinking age in 
dormitory rooms; however, it 
is prohibited in all exclusively 
?rst-year student dorms. The 
only upperclassmen alcoholfree residence is Henderson 
House, which belongs to a 
wellness community. If a 
staff member or police of?cer 
is concerned about activity in 
a private room, they have the 
right to approach the students 
room and address any behavSee BROCHURE, A3
Health survey gathers data on stress
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
News Co-Editor
Carnegie Mellon students 
were recently asked to take a 
health survey that requested 
information on a broad range 
of topics that included sexual 
health, stress levels, and physical activity.
Anita Barkin, director of 
University Health Services, 
sent out an email to the student body two weeks ago, asking students to complete the 
online survey about health-related experiences at Carnegie 
Mellon. The survey was meant 
to determine how best to provide resources to support students physical and emotional 
well-being.
This years health survey 
focused on mental health and 
student stress levels, according to Barkin. In 2007 and 
2009, the last two years that 
a campus-wide health survey 
was administered, Student 
Health Services used the National College Health Assessment (NCHA). The NCHA, 
which is produced by the 
American College Health Association, focuses on health 
areas that college students 
generally struggle with, such 
as sexual health, alcohol, and 
drug usage.
While the NCHA has several advantages in that it yields 
data that can be compared 
with a national body of university students, Barkin wanted 
the survey at Carnegie Mellon 
this year to also focus on other 
areas.
We looked at the information and the data being collected [by the NCHA] and said 
you know what? We want to 
do something thats a little bit 
different. We want to make 
sure theyre addressing some 
of the issues that have been 
raised over the past year regarding stress, she said.
Director of the Of?ce of Institutional Research and Analysis Janel Sutkus compared 
the survey in some ways to the 
CMU Says survey, a similar 
health survey, administered 
two years ago.
Weve never really done 
a measure of stress and stress 
management, she said. In 
the CMU Says survey two 
years ago we looked at sleep, 
we looked at physical ?tness, 
we look eating habits. In the 
past National College Health 
Assessment, we looked at 
sexual activity and alcohol 
and drug use. The stress level, 
the stress management, those 
pieces are new.
See HEALTH, A3
NOL UM
News Co-Editor
Professor of computer science and dean of the School of 
Computer Science Randal Bryant announced his plan to step 
down at the end of his term 
from his position as dean last 
Monday.
Bryants 10-year term as 
dean of SCS will expire on 
June 30, 2014. Computer science professor Guy Blelloch 
will be heading the committee 
in charge of ?nding a replacement for Bryant.
Bryant, who ?rst became 
dean in 2004, wrote in an 
email to members of SCS, 
Its been a wonderful experience for me to serve as dean. 
Ive gotten to work with many 
creative and capable people 
on projects ranging from new 
research initiatives and new 
educational programs to improved outreach to our alumni 
and supporters.
Ive been able to ride in 
autonomous vehicles, walk 
around muddy construction 
sites, and meet with alumni 
and friends of SCS all around 
the world. Ive especially enjoyed meeting the families of 
our students at graduation, 
sharing with them the excitement of our students achievements. I would like to thank 
every one of you for having 
made this such a rewarding experience for me, he 
continued.
Bryants previous work included research concerning 
data intensive, distributed 
computing techniques, according to Bryants pro?le on 
the School of Computer Science website.
Bryant also co-authored 
the textbook Computer Systems: A Programmers Perspective, a work that originated 
from the introductory computer systems course that 
Bryant and his co-author and 
professor of computer science 
Dave OHallaron developed in 
1998, called Introduction to 
Computer Systems.
Bryant was awarded the 
Emanuel R. Piore Award from 
the Institute of Electronics and 
Electrical Engineers (IEEE), 
for his developing methods 
of reasoning about digital circuits using ordered binary decision diagrams, according to 
the IEEE website.
Bryant plans to take a oneyear sabbatical following the 
end of his term, and then return to his duties as a professor of computer science.
As dean, Bryant was instrumental in fostering research in 
data-intensive computing.
In the meantime, theres 
plenty to do between now and 
June 30, and I look forward to 
continuing to work with you, 
he wrote.
NOL UM
News Co-Editor
Professor of statistics and 
dean of the Dietrich College 
of Humanities and Social Sciences (DC) John Lehoczky 
announced the end of his 14-
year term as dean on Oct. 18. 
Lehoczky will continue his 
duties as professor of statistics in the next academic year.
Professor of applied linguistics Richard Tucker will 
head the search committee to 
replace Lehoczky.
Executive Vice President 
and Provost Mark Kamlet said 
in an email to the DC community, John has been a truly 
extraordinary dean under 
whose leadership the college 
has moved forward strongly 
across its entire range of 
activities.
Through his commitment, dedication, and engagement, the college has 
enhanced greatly Carnegie 
Mellon Universitys reputation as a great university 
through its research and 
education programs in the 
humanities and the social sciences. John has also been a 
tremendous campus leader 
far beyond the college per se. 
His experience and wisdom 
have helped guide the university for many years, Kamlet 
continued.
Lehoczkys main research 
interests involve the theory of 
stochastic processes, which is 
the evolution of random phenomena over time, and the 
use of stochastic processes 
to model real-world applications, according to his pro?le 
on the Carnegie Mellon statistics website.
Joining the Carnegie Mellon statistics faculty in 1969, 
Lehoczky had a vision for 
Dietrich College to develop 
novel research projects and 
education programs in the social sciences and humanities 
that will enhance Carnegie 
Mellons reputation as a great 
university, according to the 
Dietrich College website.
After earning his Ph.D. 
from Stanford University, 
Lehoczky contributed his 
knowledge about applications of stochastic modeling 
to problems in ?nance, leading to the creation of Carnegie Mellons unique masters 
degree program in computational ?nance.
According to the Dietrich 
College website, Lehoczky 
worked to ramp up Carnegie 
Mellons humanities program 
during his tenure as dean. 
This effort included overseeing the launch of the Humanities Initiative, which 
founded the Humanities 
Scholars Program, the Humanities Center, and the Center for the Arts in Society. 
Students 
reported high 
levels of stress, 
the problem 
was that we 
didnt have 
follow up 
questions.
Anita Barkin
Director of University 
Health Services

---------------------------------------------------

A2  thetartan.org/news The Tartan  October 28, 2013
STUDENT SENATE MEETING MINUTES
Corrections & Clari?cations
If you would like to submit a correction or clari?cation, 
please email The Tartan at news@thetartan.org or 
editor@thetartan.org with your inquiry, as well as the 
date of the issue and the name of the article. We will 
print the correction or clari?cation in the next print 
issue and publish it online.
NEWS IN BRIEFStudents celebrate MCS Pride Day
WEATHER
Theft from Vehicle
Oct. 19, 2013
University Police were 
summoned to the Dithridge 
Street Garage just after 3 p.m. 
for a report of theft from a vehicle. The victim of stated that 
his black laptop satchel was 
stolen from a car, and the cars 
passenger side window was 
smashed. This investigation is 
ongoing.
Underage Drinking/Public 
Intoxication
Oct. 20, 2013
University Police were 
summoned to Morewood Avenue near the Greek Quad in 
reference to a person heard 
screaming. University Police 
arrived and determined that 
there had been a physical 
altercation between two individuals. CMU EMS was dispatched to medically evaluate 
one of the males; the second 
declined treatment. University Police cited one intoxicated 
male for underage drinking 
and a second intoxicated male 
for disorderly conduct, underage drinking, and public 
drunkenness.
Criminal Mischief
Oct. 20, 2013
University Police were dispatched to the second ?oor 
of Stever House in reference 
to a broken mens room bathroom stall. University Police 
determined that one of the 
males involved in the previously mentioned physical 
altercation on Morewood Avenue was responsible for the 
broken stall. University Police 
charged the male with criminal mischief.
Medication Theft
Oct. 21, 2013
University Police took a report of a theft of medication 
from a student. The victim 
reported leaving the backpack 
unattended from 3:05-3:15 
p.m. in the common area of 
the fourth ?oor of the Gates 
Center for Computer Science, 
near Rashid Auditorium. 
The victim stated that during this time, approximately 
60-100 mg of Adderall pills 
were unlawfully taken from 
the students backpack.
Bicycle Theft
Oct. 22, 2013
University Police were dispatched to the bike rack on 
the runway area between the 
tennis courts and the University Center for a report of a bicycle theft. The victim stated 
that he secured his BLKMRKT 
357 bicycle at the bike rack at 
6 p.m. on Oct. 21. 
The victim stated that 
when he returned at 1:35 a.m. 
on Oct. 22, the bicycle was 
gone. This investigation is ongoing.
Bicycle Theft (Recovered)
Oct. 23, 2013
A Carnegie Mellon student 
contacted University Police 
after he found his previously 
stolen bicycle secured to the 
bike rack at Hunt Library. 
The owner stated that he had 
previously parked his bicycle 
at the University Center bike 
rack at 8 p.m. on Oct. 21. 
The owner stated that when 
he returned at 1 a.m. on Oct. 
22, the bicycle was gone. The 
owner of the bicycle was able 
to provide University Police 
proof of purchase and a serial number con?rming that 
the bicycle at Hunt Library 
was his. University Police returned the bicycle to its rightful owner.
Criminal Solicitation
Oct. 23, 2013
University Police are charging a former student with 
criminal solicitation after he 
attempted to buy a Carnegie 
Mellon ID card from an undercover of?cer, posing as a Carnegie Mellon student for the 
purposes of an investigation. 
The male was later interviewed by detectives, at which 
time he admitted to the crime.
Campus Crime & Incident Reports
Source: www.weather.com
FEATURE PHOTO
The National Science 
Foundation has awarded 
Carnegie Mellon researchers 
more than $7 million for various robot projects. The grant 
money is expected to be used 
towards projects that build 
and develop robots that can 
optimize and assist human 
tasks.
The great promise of robots is to extend human skills 
and enhance human lives, 
said Matt Mason, director of 
the Carnegie Mellon Robotics Institute, according to a 
university press release. The 
National Robotics Initiative is 
helping researchers here at 
Carnegie Mellon and across 
the country make that promise a reality. 
One of the new projects 
is expected to be a multipleuniversity, interdisciplinary 
scheme using robots to better 
assess the status of decrepit 
bridges.
Various groups will be in 
charge of the bridge project, 
including Carnegie Mellons 
Robotics Institute and civil 
and environmental engineering departments, as well as 
Northeastern University.
Another project will look 
to develop robots that can aid 
in low-risk surgeries by using 
sensory information to guide 
them. 
Researchers hope to have 
compensated for surgeons 
not being able to see organs 
during surgeries.
Other projects include using robots and creating 3-D 
maps of internal organs to 
help the visually impaired 
travel, assist stroke survivors 
with their mobility, respond 
to underground mine accidents, and more.
Carnegie Mellon Researchers Granted $7 Million by National Science Foundation
Ilics Team Awarded $1.2 Million Grant
Marija D. Ilic, professor of 
electrical and computer engineering and engineering 
and public policy, has been 
chosen to lead a multidisciplinary research team aiming to prove that it is feasible 
to economically and dependably provide electric power.
According to a university press release, Ilic plans 
on executing her research 
project with careful design 
of IT-enabled, data-driven 
protocols and the introduction of more interactive 
binding protocols between 
traditional utilities and new 
technologies. 
Using a $1.2 million grant 
that is spread over three 
years, Ilic will test the intelligent Dynamic Monitoring and Decision Systems 
(iDyMonDS) to prove that a 
more dependable, cost effective smart grid technology 
system can be created.
This hybrid setup has 
the potential to realistically 
mimic a large electric energy 
system with data collected 
from real-world instrumentation that would ultimately 
be able to help determine 
the value of new technologies and their impact on the 
quality and cost of electricity 
services, sustainability and 
potential for reducing pollution, Ilic said.
Her team has already created a database for electric 
power grids in two volcanic islands, Flores and San 
Miguel, and used the data to 
determine how community 
members can best utilize 
cheaper, more eco-friendly 
energy from wind.
According to a university 
press release, Ilic has recently 
been recognized by Carnegie 
Mellon with a Philip L. Dowd 
Fellowship Award. She has 
also established the Electrical 
Energy Systems Group. 
Senate VacanciesPresentation of University Health Services
FRIDAY
High / Low
59 / 47
SATURDAY
High / Low
50 / 37
SUNDAY
High / Low
49 / 31
TUESDAY
High / Low
59 / 44
WEDNESDAY
High / Low
60 / 50
THURSDAY
High / Low
64 / 57
There are currently several vacancies in Senate, 
including three in the College of Fine Arts, four in 
the College of Engineering, 
and two in the School of 
Computer Science. Vacancy 
elections are tentatively 
scheduled for this weeks 
meeting on Thursday, Oct. 
31.
Compiled by
BRENT HEARD
Compiled by
NOL UM
Anita Barkin, director of 
University Health Services, 
gave a presentation that covered several changes in Carnegie Mellons health policies. 
According to Barkin, University Health Services is 
proposing a change in the 
language of Carnegie Mellons 
immunization requirements 
to make them more adaptable. 
Barkin also discussed possible changes in the universitys smoking policy and insurance policy.
Student Body VP Resignation
Peter Masters, junior international relations and 
politics major, has resigned 
as student body vice president. The position is now 
open; interested candidates 
should contact student body 
president and senior biology 
and psychology double major Lindsay MacGillivray at 
sbp@andrew.cmu.edu.
Points of Discussion
The New York Times is 
interested in bringing a 
speaker to Carnegie Mellons campus. The topic of 
the talk is ?exible. Senate 
needs suggestions for faculty or staff members to 
help choose a speaker; suggestions can be emailed to 
the Senate Executive Committee. More information 
is forthcoming.
Kate Groschner/Photo Editor
Students gathered on the Mall to celebrate Mellon College of Science Pride Day with activities and food, last Thursday. 
Committee Updates
The Communications 
Committee reported that 
Senate Week was very successful; the Senate Facebook page experienced an 
almost 100 percent increase 
in likes. The Campus Life 
Committee will be handing out free apple cider 
and cookies this week. The 
Gallery Crawl has been rescheduled for Nov. 23.

---------------------------------------------------

October 28, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/news  A3
participate in some of these 
studies. You can play a role in 
service to the country ... as a 
member of these academies.
Suresh was recognized by 
the Institute of Medicine for 
his research in cell mechanics related to blood diseases, 
malaria, and certain types of 
cancer. His research explores 
the ability of cells to deform 
and how changes in this ability can lead to disease.
The idea behind this is if 
you look at biological cells, 
especially human cells like 
red blood cells, there are 
physical properties and mechanical properties that are 
very important for health, he 
said. If something happens, 
either through environment 
or genetic defect that causes 
the cell to compromise its 
abilities, then it will affect the 
way the normal functioning 
of the body will take place.
Suresh explained how this 
can cause different problems 
in different diseases. 
In sickle cell anemia and 
malaria, the cells deformability is compromised; and 
that compromises the function of the cell.
Meanwhile, in certain 
types of cancer like pancreatic cancer, the easier it is for 
the cell to deform, the faster 
the cancer can metastasize 
and spread.
For different diseases, its 
a different outcome, thats 
the connection. And thats 
the connection thats not being studied at the cell level, 
because the tools you need to 
study them are very sophisticated using nanotechnology, 
computational modeling, and 
those tools that have been in 
place only in the last 1015 
years, Suresh said.
Raymond J. Lane, Chairman of the Carnegie Mellon Board of Trustees, called 
Sureshs research, work at 
the intersection of engineering, the sciences, and medicine, in an email to the Carnegie Mellon community.
[President Suresh] is truly a scientist and educational 
leader for our time. He embodies, through his individual scholarship as well as institutional, national, and global 
leadership, Carnegie Mellons 
commitment to cross boundaries to transform lives, Lane 
said.
Suresh will elaborate 
more on his research at his 
seminar Crossing Boundaries, Transforming Lives: The 
Study of Human Diseases at 
the Crossroads of Engineering, Science, and Medicine 
on Nov. 7 at 4:30 p.m. in 
McConomy Auditorium.
Institute of Medicine recognizes Suresh
MEDICINE, from A1
Barkin hopes that this survey will provide a richer data 
set for understanding how 
students deal with stress; 
We know that students reported high levels of stress, 
the problem was that we 
didnt have follow up questions, Barkin said.
Sutkus wants the survey 
to focus on how stress and 
stress management is affected by key aspects of health 
like sleep levels and eating 
habits.
The relationships between all of these things are 
critically important. I would 
like to understand the relationship between sleep 
and stress management and 
physical ?tness so we can 
report back to the students, 
look, this is what you told us, 
these are some of the healthy 
behaviors and these are some 
of the less healthy behaviors. 
Now that weve learned this 
and youve told us what services are important to you, 
we can make decisions about 
what gets enhanced and 
whats not being utilized. 
Lucy Havens, a junior information systems major, 
said she appreciated that 
the university was trying to 
address Carnegie Mellons 
stress culture. 
I think students know 
that stress here is a problem, 
so its nice to know that the 
school is trying to address 
that. I appreciate the fact that 
they have the survey in the 
?rst place, she said. 
The survey itself, Barkin 
said, was created mostly by 
Sutkus.
According to Sutkus, the 
survey looked at student 
health in three major areas: physical health, mental 
health, and stress levels. 
The survey asked questions designed to address 
how these three major health 
areas interact with other 
aspects of student health, 
including sleep, sexual 
health, physical ?tness, alcohol and drug use, nutrition and eating habits, and 
stress management.
Sutkus said that the information from the survey will 
be used to allocate resources 
within the university to address student needs.
 We can look at the kinds 
of resources we offer and see 
if theyre meeting students 
needs, Sutkus said.
While Sutkus will be 
analyzing the data from the 
survey herself, she will provide the results to various 
divisions of the university, 
including the Athletics Department and Counseling 
and Psychological Services 
(CAPS).
We have been working 
very closely with other areas 
on campus, so I spent a lot 
of time with [Interim Director of Athletics] Josh Centor 
and [Director of CAPS] Kurt 
Kumler to get some of the 
language around these areas. 
They will be the recipients 
of some of the results, along 
with folks like [Dean of Student Affairs] Gina Casalegno, 
[Vice Provost for Education] 
Amy Burkert, and lots of folks 
from student affairs and academic advising.
Barkin mentioned that its 
important to look not just at 
students with unhealthy habits but also students who are 
managing their health well. 
You know, the important 
thing, too, is not only to understand behaviors that are 
potentially not healthy, but 
[also to understand] those 
students who are doing very 
well. What does that look 
like? What does our well student look like? Because there 
are things we can learn from 
that as well, she said. 
While the 2007 NCHA 
received a response rate of 
about 24 percent, Barkin 
said, she hopes that this 
years survey will be taken by 
more students. 
Sutkus said that they are 
aiming for a response rate of 
between 40 and 45 percent, 
and are already halfway to 
their goal. This total also includes graduate students at 
Carnegie Mellon, who have 
never been included in a campus health survey before this 
year.
Student Health Services 
is incentivizing the survey 
with coupons for a free frozen yogurt dessert at Skibo 
Cafe and a chance to win a 
Healthy U stadium blanket or 
free meal block at a campus 
dining location.
The survey, which began 
on Oct. 17, will end between 
Nov. 1 and Nov. 6. Students 
can take the survey online via 
the link in Barkins campuswide email. 
Healthy U survey evaluates students
Brochure highlights substance rules
Michelle Wan/Junior Photographer
President Suresh was recently elected to the Institute of Medicine. 
HEALTH, from A1
Kelsey Scott/Operations Manager
                                                                                            Anne-Sophie Kim/Layout Staff
FEATURE PHOTOKGBs Capture the Flag with Stuff
Kate Groschner/Photo Editor
KGB held a game of Capture the Flag last Friday at 7 p.m. in Doherty Hall. 
ior that might be disturbing 
the community or violating 
university policy. It is up to a 
student to allow entry to his or 
her room with the exception 
of life safety concerns, which 
positions us to enter a room to 
respond.
The university maintains 
its strict policy prohibiting illegal substances on campus.  
     Casalegno said, Any allegation that university policy is 
violated is taken seriously and 
thoughtfully handled through 
our community standards 
process. Illicit drug use introduces an element of risk to 
the safety and welfare of the 
university community, and 
will be dealt with accordingly. 
In all our efforts to respond to 
reports of drug or alcohol use, 
education about the individual ... are of paramount importance in our process.
The amnesty policy allowing students with intoxicated 
peers to seek help will continue to be in effect. The amnesty 
policy was ?rst implemented 
at Carnegie Mellon in the 
late 1990s when incidents of 
intoxication requiring medical attention became more 
prevalent.
It is not the universitys 
prerogative to assert the amnesty procedure off campus 
in jurisdictions where we 
do not have police authority. I think high-risk drinking 
poses a risk to students, and 
urge students, regardless of 
where they are, to seek help 
for themselves or their peers 
whenever someone exhibits 
signs of alcohol intoxication 
that warrants medical attention, Casalegno said.
BROCHURE, from A1

---------------------------------------------------

A4  thetartan.org/scitech The Tartan  October 28, 2013
BROOKE KUEI
Assistant SciTech Editor
How do bats maneuver in 
the dark? How do dolphins 
make their way through the 
ocean? Echolocation is a 
biological sonar used by microchiropteran bats, odontocetes (toothed whales and 
dolphins), and some cavedwelling bird species as a 
means of navigation in environments where vision is not 
very useful. 
The basic concept behind 
echolocation is that the animal emits calls then listens to 
the echoes of its calls bouncing off nearby objects, the 
same way you might hear 
your own voice echo back in a 
cave or canyon. When the animal calls out, it causes vibrations in the air. These changes 
in the air affect surrounding 
particles and cause them to 
vibrate as well, resulting in 
a chain reaction, known as a 
sound wave, that can travel 
very long distances. When 
this sound wave hits another 
object, the particles are de?ected in the opposite direction and the wave returns to 
the caller.
HowStuffWorks.com explains how bats use this ability 
to ?nd prey in the dark. Most 
bats make calls higher in pitch 
than humans can hear. When 
the echo returns to the bat, 
the time delay helps it process 
how far away the object is. 
Even more amazing, however, 
is the way bats can determine 
which direction the object is 
moving and how big it is. The 
bat can tell the direction the 
object is moving by comparing whether the sound reaches its right or left ear ?rst  if 
the sound reaches the right 
ear ?rst, for example, the object must be on the right side 
of the bat. In addition to the 
objects horizontal position, 
the bat can determine if the 
object is above or below it by 
using special folds on its outer 
ear. These sensitive folds allow the bat to feel if the sound 
wave hits the lower or upper 
part of its ear.
The bat can also determine 
the size of the object by the intensity of the echo. Because a 
smaller object will re?ect the 
sound wave less, the returning echo will be softer. If the 
echo is louder, the object is 
obviously larger. The bat can 
even use the Doppler effect to 
conclude if the object is moving away from or toward it. If 
the object is moving toward 
the bat, the peaks and troughs 
of the sound wave will seem 
closer together, causing the 
echo to have a higher pitch. 
Similarly, if the object is 
moving away from the bat, 
the wave will appear to be 
more spread out, and the corresponding frequency will 
cause the echo's pitch to be 
lower.
Echolocation is a very important skill for whales and 
dolphins as well. According to 
the Australian governments 
Department of the Environment, toothed whales  such 
as killer whales and dolphins 
 use echolocation for hunting and navigating. However, 
baleen whales, such as humpbacks and blue whales, use it 
as a form of communication. 
According to the National 
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, sound is emitted 
in the head region of these sea 
mammals and is focused by 
the melon, a mass of adipose 
(fatty) tissue found in the 
forehead. The echo is then received through special tissue 
in the lower jawbone that is 
able to conduct sound. In both 
bats and odontocetes, characteristics of echolocation calls 
differ depending on the environment, hunting behavior, 
and type of prey.
While this kind of echolocation is not innate to humans, Smithsonian magazine 
con?rmed that humans are 
also capable of echolocation 
and many vision-impaired individuals have actually developed the ability over time. 
While humans lack the 
specialized anatomical structures that bats and odontocetes use to analyze echoes, the 
overall concept of echolocation is theoretically still possible. For example, humans 
are capable of making small 
click noises that echo back, 
have a left and right ear to 
distinguish the direction of 
the object, and are able to differentiate between volumes to 
determine the distance of the 
object.
Humans could potentially 
replicate echolocation  but 
they would need to determine 
the speed of sound in air, have 
a timer to measure how long 
it takes for the echo to return, 
and use physics equations to 
determine how an object is 
moving. Naturally echolocating animals can do all of 
these calculations purely by 
instinct.
HOW THINGS WORKEcholocation allows dolphins, bats to navigate without sight
Research allows for improvement of motion-tracking
BROOKE KUEI
Assistant SciTech Editor
Have you ever played 
your friend in Wii Sports and 
blamed a missed serve or a 
bad shot on the lag of the video game? Robert Xiao, a Ph.D. 
student in Carnegie Mellons 
Human-Computer Interaction 
Institute (HCII), Chris Harrison, a recent Ph.D. graduate 
from the HCII who will be joining the Carnegie Mellon faculty next year, Scott Hudson, a 
professor in the HCII, and Ivan 
Poupyrev and Karl Willis of Disney Research Pittsburgh, have 
developed a motion tracking 
technology called Lumitrack, 
which will not only signi?cantly 
decrease the lag that is common 
in many motion tracking technologies today but also offer 
more precision and lower cost.
According to Xiao, the project began when he and his research group discovered that 
mathematical problems could 
be encoded in a way such that 
a very small portion of them 
would be unique across the 
entire pattern, known as the 
m-sequence. We got the notion that this could be used for 
tracking somehow, Xiao said. 
You could display this pattern 
in some way and then identify 
where you are on it.
Lumitrack consists of two 
main components: projectors and sensors. The system 
projects a unique m-sequence, 
which is essentially a big barcode, onto a linear optical sensor somewhere in the ?eld of 
view. The sensor then picks 
up individual pixels of this 
barcode pattern and decodes 
it into the position within the 
pattern. For motion tracking 
in three dimensions, an additional projector and sensor 
pair are added to the system. 
So basically we set up an 
image from the projector that 
is this barcode, in two directions  one barcode in one 
direction and a different barcode in a different direction 
and the sensors are sitting in 
this ?eld with x and y sensors 
that can just pick up that barcode, Xiao said. The system 
is also extremely precise: We 
can track the position of the 
sensor down to 1.3 millimeters, at the worst, Xiao said.
The design of this system 
allows the sensors to pick up 
locations in a short amount 
of time because light can be 
tracked quickly. Existing motion tracking technologies, 
such as Nintendos Wii Remote or Microsofts Kinect, use 
full cameras on their sensors, 
which result in a lot of extra 
processing time. 
Lumitrack, by comparison, 
is quite simple. Because of the 
use of the barcode, we can just 
look up the position in the barcode. Its basically just a simple 
table look-up, Xiao said. 
The fact that Lumitrack 
uses one-dimensional sensors 
means that it does not have a 
lot of data to deal with. 
We process the data using 
a very fast, very ef?cient algorithm, and then ship it off. The 
simplicity of the system ends 
up being its greatest strength, 
Xiao said. This simplicity also 
results in a lower cost overall, 
since Lumitrack requires only 
a few sensors and projectors.
Other applications of this 
system include gesture control and computer-generated 
imagery (CGI) for ?lms. In the 
case of gesture control, Lumitrack has the potential to perform even better than other 
current technologies, such as 
the Leap Motion Controller. 
As for CGI, very expensive 
and large systems are usually required. However, using Lumitrack, CGI would 
be achieved using much less 
equipment and at a lower cost, 
making it more accessible to 
ordinary people.
Xiao and his team recently 
attended the 2013 Association for Computing Machinery 
Symposium on User Interface 
Software and Technology in 
Scotland. I got an opportunity 
to present my research there to 
the wider community and get 
them excited about the possibilities that we could have, 
Xiao said. While Lumitrack is 
still a research prototype at the 
moment, commercial vendors  
interested in creating a product 
have reached out to the Carnegie Mellon group. Xiao predicts that in three years, Lumitrack could be commercialized, 
transforming motion tracking 
systems into real-time experiences.
DESIREE XU
Business Manager
Researchers at Carnegie 
Mellon University have collaborated with scientists from 
the Army Research Laboratory; Pennsylvania State 
University; the University of 
California, Davis; the University of California, Riverside; 
and Indiana University to 
develop methods for computers to make security relevant 
decisions in cyberspace. The 
project, called Models for Enabling Continuous Recon?gurability of Secure Missions, 
strives to increase security in 
cyberspace.
The ?ve-year funding for 
the program is $23.2 million, 
with an additional $25 million for an optional ?ve-year 
extension. The Carnegie Mellon branch of the project is 
funded through CyLab, the 
worlds largest universitybased research and education center for computer and 
network security, information 
security, and software assurance.
The collaborative research 
focuses on detecting attacks 
in cyberspace, measuring 
and managing risk, and altering the environment to 
optimize results, all while 
minimizing cost. The previous three objectives will be 
reached with help of human 
behavior models that allow 
computers to predict the motivations of users, defenders, 
and attackers.
The lead researcher from 
Carnegie Mellon, Lorrie 
Cranor, is an associate professor of computer science and 
engineering and public policy. 
Cranor became involved with 
this project through her previous work, which also dealt 
with human factors related to 
security and privacy. She was 
recruited for the project team 
by Patrick McDaniel, a professor of computer science and 
engineering at Penn State and 
the principal investigator on 
this project.
Cranors main role is to 
lead the psychosocial team, 
which will be contributing to 
the project by investigating 
psychological and human factor issues. One of her teams 
developed techniques that 
allowed computers to distinguish between real and false 
cyberattacks, which may aid 
the performances of overwhelmed human analysts. 
Results from this research 
will enable future computing 
systems to take action derived 
from human decision making 
in response to attacks without 
physical human intervention. 
For example, a server observing unusual network traf?c from an unknown entity 
might decide it is under attack 
and ?lter that traf?c.
Despite the projects seemingly technical nature, it requires a variety of expertise, 
most importantly that of 
people who understand risk, 
game theory, and human 
factor issues, according to 
Cranor. This is because an important approach to combating cyberattacks involves understanding the motivations 
and behaviors of attackers.
Cleotilde Gonzalez, an associate research professor of 
social and decision sciences 
and director of the Dynamic 
Decision Making Laboratory 
is responsible for many of the 
decision-making aspects of 
the project. Other Carnegie 
Mellon contributors include 
Lujo Bauer and Nicolas Christin, both assistant research 
professors of electrical and 
computer engineering and  
associated with the CyLab.
Finally, Cranor stresses the 
role of researchers who specialize in the social sciences. 
One of the salient aspects of 
our proposed research is in 
the realization that humans 
are integral to maintaining 
cybersecurity and to breaches 
of security, Cranor said via 
email. Their behavior and 
cognitive and psychological 
biases have to be integrated 
as much as any other component of the system that one is 
trying to secure.
Courtesy of Robert Xiao; photo by Chris Harrison
Researchers have utilized a barcode technique that has been able to successfully improve the precision and affordability of motion-tracking devices. 
Researchers integrate social 
science in cybersecurity project
Courtesy of Lorrie Cranor
Lorrie Cranor, center, leads the psychosocial team of a collaborative cybersecurity project. She is shown with 
Penn State professor Patrick McDaniel, front left, and the members of the Army Research Laboratory.Michael Setzer/SciTech Editor

---------------------------------------------------

October 28, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/scitech  A5
RESEARCH AND CREATE
AN EXHIBIT AT POSNER CENTER
15 HOURS/WEEK FOR 15 WEEKS
$3,000|OPTION FOR CREDIT
APPLY BY NOV. 25, 11:59PM
MICHAEL SETZER
SciTech Editor
On a chilly evening last 
Monday, Carnegie Mellon students, faculty, and staff and 
members of the Pittsburgh 
community huddled in the 
Rex Theatre in Pittsburghs 
South Side to listen to ?ve individuals share personal stories about science. The event 
was co-hosted by Story Collider, a traveling podcast that 
records peoples stories about 
science, and Public Communication for Researchers (PCR), 
a group of graduate students 
at Carnegie Mellon that focuses on communicating science 
to the public.
The stories themselves 
came from ?ve Carnegie Mellon students  four graduate 
students and one undergraduate  covering a range of 
emotions and describing trips 
to rural Pennsylvania, Rwanda, Italy, Massachusetts, and 
Pittsburgh.
Story Collider producer 
Erin Barker and co-founder/
director Ben Lillie, who hosted 
the event, squelched any fears 
of a humdrum lecture. There 
will be no learning tonight, 
Barker exclaimed. That is the 
Story Collider promise.
Victor Hwang
Victor Hwang, a graduate 
student at Carnegie Mellons 
Robotics Institute, was a college senior when he began 
preparing for a job at the Jet 
Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, Calif., where had interned the previous summer.
According to Hwang, working at the JPL was an intense 
change from college life: 
I went from playing video 
games for ?ve hours a day in 
my underwear to working on 
a $330 million spacecraft for 
my ?rst job as a 22-year-old, 
he said.
One of his assignments 
involved working on an extremely complex sequence of 
code for a spacecraft 20 million miles away. When it was 
?nally time to implement the 
code, he went to the command 
room to beam it up. But after 
a countdown, the spacecraft 
failed to appear on his screen. 
After failing to initially determine the issue, Hwang began 
to panic. I imagined a newspaper headline, 22-year-old 
blows up spacecraft, publicly 
shamed by Jean-Luc Picard. 
Eventually, Hwang determined that his only error 
was in simple arithmetic; the 
spacecraft was late to show 
up on the screen, but with 
no damage or repercussions. 
After ?nally settling down, 
Hwang realized the bene?ts of 
having a high-stakes job. If it 
gets my blood pumping, I can 
tell Im doing the right thing.
Miranda Munoz
Miranda Munoz, a sophomore biological sciences major  and the lone undergrad 
 was next to take the stage. 
When she was in the eighth 
grade, she woke up with a 
headache and received an initial diagnosis of vertigo; however, she wasnt convinced this 
was the problem. After three 
visits to neurologists, she had 
became frustrated and fed 
up. I hated my brain, she 
said. She remembered thinking, Its what makes me who 
I am, but its giving me this 
great pain. As she studied 
the brain more and more, 
she became increasingly intrigued by the complex organ.
On Dec. 20, 2010, Munozs 
father suffered from a sudden 
stroke. Speaking to a hushed 
audience, Munoz stated, I 
had never hated the brain as 
much as I did that day. Her 
father was in a wheelchair and 
had to relearn simple tasks 
such as signing his name and 
taking a few steps.
Ultimately, these experiences led to her passion for 
understanding the brain. Ive 
loved the brain and Ive hated 
the brain. But greater than 
this, Ive loved the challenges 
of unlocking its mysteries each 
day, she said.
Avner Maiberg
Avner Maiberg, a graduate 
student in computer science, 
began his tale by introducing millennium problems  a 
group of mathematical problems that have never been 
solved  and as a new and 
excited graduate student, the 
idea of taking one on. A huge 
fan of Jeopardy!, Maiberg was 
excited to work with his adviser, who had helped build 
IBMs Watson and was a vanguard of the robot uprising, 
but sad to leave his girlfriend. 
As school moved forward, his 
relationship slowly deteriorated. Eventually, via Google 
Hangout, Maibergs girlfriend 
broke it off.
His living situation didnt 
help. Finding an apartment 
through Craiglist, Maibergs 
roommates included a 
17-year-old girl, a Pitt student, 
and two men who told us they 
were uncle and nephew that 
insisted on living in the attic. 
One day, police broke in to 
their home NYPD style, looking for the nephew-uncle duo. 
Amid a broken relationship, a 
police break-in, and impending ?nals, an impromptu trip 
to see a friend in Cambridge, 
Mass. helped clear his mind.
I felt like I had some sort 
of crazed epiphany, he said. 
Thinking back on the impossible millennium problems, 
Maiberg stated, We are deterministic machines ourselves. 
By being pushed to the brink, 
Maiberg realized there were 
not shortcuts in life. He returned to Carnegie Mellon, 
performed well on his ?nals, 
and moved on with a new perspective.
Craig Lehocky
Craig Lehocky is a candidate in the joint Carnegie 
Mellon and University of Pittsburgh M.D./Ph.D. program. 
Lehockys father worked construction, and growing up in 
the Pittsburgh area, Lehocky 
spent summers removing asbestos and septic tanks. Eventually, he learned to get the 
hell out [of construction] and 
go into science.
One day while presenting 
data to his research group, 
Lehocky noticed people giggling and smirking during his 
presentation. He was later  
asked by a colleague, Do you 
always speak like that? It was 
then that Lehocky began to realize that he didnt sound like the 
people he admired. After that, 
he became self-conscious about 
his native Pittsburgh accent.
Lehocky planned to take 
a year off before continuing 
his education and applied to 
a fellowship at the University 
of Cambridge. Senior year, he 
decided to travel down south 
with a friend over Thanksgiving. On Thanksgiving morning 
 hung over from the previous night  he received a call 
from an unknown number. On 
the other end was the most 
beautiful and eloquent English accent he had ever heard. 
He then realized, This is my 
professor, this is my interview, 
and the British do not observe 
Thanksgiving.
In a state between being 
still drunk and not yet hungover, he had a two-hour conversation with his potential 
adviser. Lehocky had concerns 
about the call: On the one 
hand, we had an extensive 
conversation for two hours. 
On the other hand, I sounded 
like a complete jagoff. He was 
accepted to Cambridge, boosting his con?dence in himself, 
idiosyncrasies and all, but 
ended up not attending. He 
never did leave Pittsburgh (or 
the Pittsburgh accent, for that 
matter).
Michelle Ntampaka
The last story of the evening was told by Michelle 
Ntampaka, a Ph.D. student 
in the physics department. 
Ntampaka spoke about her 
tales in Rwanda, astrophysics, and (re)discovering the 
two loves of her life. Her story 
began in rural Pennsylvania, 
where Ntampaka remembers 
a feeling of enchantment looking into the dark sky.
After graduating college, 
Ntampaka held a bachelors 
degree in physics and a sense 
of restlessness. She traveled 
abroad to work as a volunteer 
with her church. The expedition was led by her minister, 
known as Pastor Bruce, who 
had three rules: one, follow 
his leadership; two, dont complain; and three, dont get romantically involved.
The ?rst two rules were nobrainers, and the only person 
with a Y chromosome was Pastor Bruce, so she didnt think 
it would be a problem.
According to Ntampaka, 
upon landing in Rwanda she 
had been through two straight 
red-eye ?ights and smelled 
like it. But she suddenly 
stopped dead in her tracks at 
the Rwandan airport. I saw 
the most handsome man I had 
ever seen, she said. From the 
neck up, he was National Geographic. From the neck down, 
he was Wall Street. His name 
was Burton, he was the groups 
guide, and Ntampaka had a 
feeling she was going to break 
one of Pastor Bruces rules.
During the trip, she and 
Burton spent time together, 
but Ntampaka remained obedient to Pastor Bruces norelationship rule. Once the 
expedition was over, however, 
Ntampaka began regularly 
communicating with Burton 
on Skype, and even traveled to 
Rwanda twice.
During one conversation, 
Burton ?nally said, Michelle, 
I think you need to marry me. 
She agreed.
I crammed my wedding 
dress into a Tupperware container, wrapped it in duct tape, 
and used it as my personal 
item for my last transatlantic 
?ight as a single woman, she 
told the audience. The duo 
married and moved back to 
America, both starting new 
chapters in their lives.
Students share tales of science and life at Story Collider
Temperatures reach new high in eastern Arctic
Gifford Miller, a geological 
sciences professor at the University of Colorado Boulder, 
and his team have determined 
that average temperatures 
over the last century in the 
Eastern Canadian Arctic are 
higher than they have been 
any century in at least the past 
44,000 years.
Miller and his team looked 
at dead moss samples from 
receding ice caps on Baf?n 
Island. Radiocarbon dating 
determined that the mosses 
have been covered by ice for 
at least 44,00051,000 years. 
Radiocarbon dating is only 
precise up to about 50,000 
years, so it is possible that the 
moss had not been exposed to 
the elements since before the 
last glaciation stage, which 
was approximately 120,000 
years ago.
Millers team predicts that 
all of the ice caps on Baf?n Island will eventually melt.
Source: Science Daily 
Carnivorous mouse aids research on pain signals
Researchers at Sam Houston State University in Huntsville, Texas have discovered 
that the southern grasshopper mouse, the only carnivorous mouse in North America, 
could help in the production 
of painkillers due to mutations that make the mouse 
resistant to pain.
Arizona bark scorpions 
are among the most poisonous scorpions in the world, 
but grasshopper mice are 
impervious to their poison. 
Normally, scorpion venom 
interacts with the Nav1.7 protein. Grasshopper mice, however, have mutated genes that 
encode a different protein, 
called Nav1.8, that blocks 
pain signals from reaching the 
brain. Researchers are looking into the special Nav1.8 
protein in order to determine 
if it could help develop human painkillers.
Source: NewScientist
New focus on improving deep brain stimulation
The Federal Defense Advanced Research Projects 
Agency has declared that over 
the next ?ve years they intend 
to invest over $70 million in 
brain implants to improve existing technology and create 
new technology.
The new program  called 
Systems-Based Neurotechnology and Understanding for 
the Treatment of Neuropsychological Illnesses  is part 
of the Obama administrations BRAIN Initiative. Current deep-brain stimulation 
can treat disorders, but cannot track its own effectiveness. Researchers involved 
with the program hope to develop deep-brain devices able 
to monitor symptoms themselves and treat situations appropriately.
Source: The New York Times
Compiled By
CLAIRE GIANAKAS
Courtesy of Carmon Rinehart
Michelle Ntampaka shared her story ?nding her love of stars  and the love of her life  in Africa.
Courtesy of Carmon Rinehart
Avner Maiberg shared his revelation that there are no shortcuts in life.
Courtesy of Carmon Rinehart
Miranda Munoz shared her personal experiences with the brain.
SCITECH BRIEFS

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan is a student newspaper at Carnegie Mellon University, funded in part by the student 
activities fee. It is a weekly publication by students during the fall and spring semesters, printed by 
Trib Total Media. The Tartan is not an official publication of Carnegie Mellon University.
The Editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The 
Tartan Editorial Board. Columns, Editorial Cartoons, and Reviews are the opinions of their 
individual creators. The Tartan Editorial Staff reserves the right to withhold from publication 
any copy it deems unfit.
Letters to the Editor are the opinions of their authors. Letters from within the University community take precedence. Letters intended for publication must be signed and include the authors 
address and telephone number for verification; letters must not exceed 350 words. Authors names 
may be withheld from publication upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject 
any letter. Letters must be submitted by 5 p.m. on the Wednesday before publication by mail or to 
forum@thetartan.org.
StaffEditorial Board
Office: University Center 314
Phone: (412) 268-2111
Fax: (412) 268-1596
Web: www.thetartan.org
E-mail: contact@thetartan.org
Mail:
The Tartan
Box 119, UC Suite 103 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
 2013 The Tartan, all rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN: 0890-3107
JENNIFER COLOMA *
Publisher
JOSH SMITH *
Editor-in-Chief
BRADEN KELNER 
Forum Editor 
EVAN KAHN *
Copy Manager
JUSTIN MCGOWN
Online Editor
CHLOE THOMPSON
Staffwriter
BRENT HEARD *
Staffwriter
A6  thetartan.org/forum The Tartan  October 28, 2013
FROM THE EDITORIAL BOARD
SENIOR STAFF 
Stephanie Blotner, Carl Glazer, Greg Hanneman
COPY
Lula Beresford-Banker, Francesca Begos, Matt 
Brown, Connie Chan, Nivedita Chopra, Gordon 
Estes, Blaine Greenberg, Ariel Hoffmaier, 
Katherine Huang, Evaline Ju, Karyn Michela, 
Satvika Neti, Mackenzie Nicholson, Gates 
Palissery, Syed Rahman, Taylor Rawley, Kevin 
Reichek, Stephanie Stern
LAYOUT
Adrian Amegashie, Manali Banjeree, Yong Gun 
Choe, Sara-Remi Fields, Anne-Sophie Kim, 
Mina Kim, Linging Sun, Tanguri Tzuo
ADVERTISING
Alison Chiu, Linda Ju, Anuva Kulkarni, 
Gretchen Tan
KELSEY SCOTT *
Operations Manager
NEL UM
News Co-Editor
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
News Co-Editor
MICHAEL SETZER
SciTech Editor
WILLIAM PARK
Sports Editor
RACHEL COHEN
Pillbox Editor
KAIRAVI CHAHAL
Comics Editor
KATE GROSCHNER
Photo Editor
LAURA SCHERB
Personnel Manager
WILL CRICHTON
Systems Manager
SWATHI ANAND
Layout Manager
JOHN HUO
Advertising Manager
DESIREE XU
Business Manager
BENJAMIN CHANG
Asst. Business Manager
JONATHAN LEUNG
Asst. Photo Editor
HANNAH DELLABELLA
Asst. Copy Manager
JULIA YANG
Asst. Copy Manager
JAMES WU
Asst. Copy Manager
BROOKE KUEI
Asst. SciTech Editor
JOEY PEISER
Asst. Pillbox Editor
JONATHAN CARREON
Contributing Editor
Editorial Staff
* Denotes executive committee member
After ?ooding the pro?le pictures 
of Pittsburghs Facebook users, the 
famed 40-foot rubber duck de?ated 
on Oct. 20. 
It was put in storage in South Side 
without much ceremony and with 
no concrete plans for future appearances. But in the three weeks that it 
made Pittsburgh its nest, the Rubber 
Duck Project was exactly what the 
city needed: a unifying object for 
people to rally around. The city can 
only bene?t from creating more citywide events and spectacles.
The ducks popularity far exceeded the Pittsburgh Cultural Trusts 
expectations. When applying for a 
permit to dock the duck, the Cultural Trust estimated about 200 visitors per day. More than one million 
people ended up making the trek to 
check out the duck, according to estimates by local hotels and Point State 
Park. While about 95 percent were 
Pittsburgh-area residents, some 
came from all across the country, 
and even as far away as Canada.
The people of Pittsburgh need 
their sense of community to be reinforced periodically. Sure, there are 
the Steelers, colleges, the symphony, 
and other things that give Pittsburgh 
an identity, but many people settle in 
a city for good because of the spectacles, events, and culture that scream 
their names across the United States. 
Bigger cities like Chicago and Austin 
have larger land masses and expanses of city life, so their draws are built 
into their structure  but Pittsburgh 
can go from skyscraper to scrubland 
quickly. It needs spectacles to draw 
in a newer population.
Despite people leaving after the 
collapse of the steel industry, Pittsburgh is still the 20th-largest city in 
America, according to the U.S. Census Bureau, and has been named 
Most Livable City by multiple publications. Still, many people see the 
city as the steel town it once was. 
Events and spectacles like the duck 
are helping to reinvent this image.
Its a good thing the duck didnt 
stick around much longer, though. 
The Pittsburgh Cultural Trust quit 
while it was ahead, despite the publics calls to prolong the ducks stay in 
Pittsburgh. If it had stayed more than 
a month, the duck would have gone 
from phenomenon to installation; 
having lost its initial appeal, it would 
have become boring and tired. 
Now that the duck is gone, 
though, the city should start brainstorming its next big attraction.
Spectacles like Rubber Duck reinvigorate city energy
High school students must be taught basic ?nances
Students should not sacri?ce sleep for their grades
Americas youth is ?nancially illiterate.
An April 2013 study conducted by 
EverFi, Inc., a technology company 
focused on educating children, revealed that more than 25 percent of 
1318-year-old high school students 
may not have the skills to manage 
basic personal ?nances upon graduation.
Unfortunately, many students 
graduate high school without knowing how to ?le their taxes, balance 
a check book, or properly manage a 
credit card.
According to the study, students 
believed that a good credit score 
was over 500, and one-third of respondents answered that a good 
credit score was 300 or less. More 
shockingly, 41 percent of students 
believed that they are either entitled 
to receive their paid taxes back after 
?ling federal income tax returns, or 
that they simply do not need to pay 
income taxes at all.
It is critical that American high 
school students receive instruction 
on basic personal ?nances, especially in a dif?cult economic climate, 
and following a recession caused in 
part by people accepting loans they 
could not afford or understand. High 
schools should implement a basic 
personal ?nances course, which 
would teach these skills to high 
school students.
There appears to be demand 
from students to receive this kind of 
instruction. According to the same 
EverFi, Inc. study, 83 percent of surveyed students believed that personal ?nance causes should be mandatory in schools.
A recent article published by PBS 
NewsHour suggests that teaching 
?nancial values to young children 
may be effective in combating the 
problem of ?nancially illiterate students, detailing how parents should 
have their children earn and manage 
allowances. Additionally, childrens 
television programs such as Sesame 
Street are beginning to incorporate 
the value of saving and properly 
managing money into its educational content. Instilling these ?nancial 
values at a young age forms critical 
building blocks for high school ?nancial programs and other efforts to be 
successful. It is never too early to 
learn the value of ?nancial responsibility.
Through Carnegie Mellons chapter of MoneyThink, a national organization devoted to teaching youth 
?nancial skills, university students 
are engaging high school students to 
educate them. The chapter mentors 
high schools students in an attempt 
to restore economic health in the 
community. The Carnegie Mellon 
MoneyThink chapters initiatives are 
an admirable ?rst step to the goal of 
educating high school students to be 
?nancially literate.
All high school students must 
graduate with basic ?nancial skills. 
High schools, as well as other community organizations, should make 
strides to ensure that students graduate with at least the ability to balance a personal checkbook and ?le 
taxes.
As startling as it may seem to 
Carnegie Mellon students, recent research proves that sleep is good.
Researchers at the University of 
Rochester discovered that, when a 
mammal sleeps, the process that the 
brain uses to remove accumulated 
natural toxic byproducts kicks into 
overdrive. Some toxins ?ushed from 
the system are responsible for plaque 
buildup found in the brains of people 
af?icted with Alzheimers disease.
The ?nding shows that the buildup of these byproducts causes most of 
the negative effects of lack of sleep. 
Grogginess, irritability, and trouble 
forming and accessing memories can 
be traced to this cleansing process. 
Even though the study reveals some 
of the causes of sleep deprivations 
symptoms, a so-called cure  a pill 
or other necessary medication  is 
unlikely to develop in the near future 
since, during sleep, the neurons contract to facilitate cleaning. Medication would have to cause or mimic 
this function.
This new information helps underscore what we already know: 
Sleep is one of the most important 
parts of being a healthy individual. 
Pulling all-nighters may have rami?-
cations for not only the next day, but 
for years to come. While the study 
also indicated that excessive sleep is 
not good, the dangers of sleep deprivation are even more pronounced.
At Carnegie Mellon, students are 
not strangers to the phrase sleep is 
for the weak, especially as they push 
themselves to study harder and longer or squeeze in extra time for recreational activity. Unfortunately, this 
mindset often puts students grades 
before their health. Students ignore 
the fact that deteriorating health 
might lead to poor grades or worse.
If the ill effects of a lack of sleep 
dont motivate students to get at least 
eight hours each night, the research 
also indicates that sleep helps people 
study. During sleep, the brain catalogs memories and makes sure that 
the most important ones are accessible. A good nights sleep can be more 
effective than a night of cramming, 
and its certainly more appealing.
Marriage equality in N.J. deserves attention
Ariel Hoffmaier
Junior Staffwriter
New Jersey became the 14th state 
to recognize same-sex marriage 
on Oct. 21. Hundreds of couples, 
many of whom had been committed to each other for years, lined the 
streets outside of Newarks city hall 
in the early hours of the day, eager 
to ?nally be granted equal bene?ts 
under both state and federal law. For 
these couples, certainly, it was a day 
of joy a long time coming.
Strangely, though, this latest victory has been met with comparatively little celebration by the larger 
community. Past legalizations have 
warranted parties and parades, not 
to mention a storm of coverage by 
the media. So why is the Garden 
State any different?
It cannot be said that New Jersey is an insigni?cant state, since its 
population is sizable  it is the third 
largest state to legalize same-sex 
marriage after New York and California. Also, the state has a strong 
conservative minority and even a 
popular Republican governor Chris 
Christie (R-N.J.), who is poised to 
lead the red ticket in 2016. Christies 
stubborn opposition to same-sex 
marriage, his attempts to appeal the 
state court decision to legalize samesex marriage, and his eventual withdrawal of that appeal were packed 
with potential for news coverage. 
However, besides the predictable 
conservative dissent, this con?ict 
has passed with minimal notice.
Even less recognized  and 
more important  is the fact that 
New Jersey is the ?rst state to be 
pushed off the fence by the overturning of the Defense of Marriage 
Act (DOMA) earlier this year. Since 
2006, New Jersey has offered civil 
unions  rather than marriage  to 
same-sex couples. The explanation 
for this choice has been that under 
New Jersey state law, civil unions 
and heterosexual marriages were 
virtually identical; as such, no one 
could claim that New Jersey was 
denying equal bene?ts to same-sex 
couples. 
However, DOMAs repeal invalidated this excuse. Several government agencies began to extend 
federal bene?ts to legally married 
same-sex couples, and consequently New Jersey marriages and civil 
unions were no longer equivalent. 
The court decision in New Jersey 
grew out of a promise to ensure all 
citizens equal protection by law.
The legalization of same-sex 
marriage in New Jersey should have 
been a signi?cant milestone, and 
not just because of the powerful 
in?uence that the repeal of DOMA 
had over it. New Jersey serves as an 
example that  beyond religion, 
politics, and prejudice  the battle 
for marriage equality should be de?ned by equal treatment under the 
law. Indeed, the war must be about 
equal treatment if we can ever hope 
to erode the iron chains guarding 
the same-sex marriage bans in some 
of Americas most stubbornly conservative states.
Then why is it that  even more 
than a week after New Jersey legalized same-sex marriage  equality 
within the state has received relatively little national attention?
The anomaly can be interpreted 
in two ways. First, the lack of sensation could be a sign that same-sex 
marriage is no longer a cause for sensation. Perhaps marriage equality is 
now becoming the new normal, and 
for the majority of Americans in support of it, New Jersey is just another 
state to check off on a domino chain 
that is bound to continue accelerating nationwide. There is undeniable 
optimism in this view. If Christie was 
able to somehow recognize that he 
was on the wrong side of history, 
might not other politicians start to 
realize the same?
It is the greatest hope of supporters everywhere that one day samesex marriage  and LGBTQ equality in general  will be no cause for 
controversy. However, that day has 
not yet arrived. 
A second, more realistic interpretation of the anomaly says that 
normality is dangerous if it leads to 
dormancy in the movement. This 
interpretation promises that it is 
more important now than ever to 
celebrate each victory at least as 
enthusiastically as the one before 
 keep a lookout for New Mexico 
and Hawaii in upcoming months. By 
moving forward without fail in an 
always growing wave of ardent support, we will eventually move opposition to the side of change.
Braden Kelner/Forum Editor
Braden Kelner/Forum Editor

---------------------------------------------------

A PERSONS OPINION
The Tartan is ?guring out its last-minute costumes. So we asked,
What is the best Halloween costume you have ever seen?
Compiled by Justin McGown
Vikram Cherupally
ChemE
First-year
Frankenstein.
Christina Lee
Art
Senior
Traffic cone.
Laine Herron 
Computer Science
Senior
Finn from Adventure Time.
Nathalie Kent
Linguistics
First-year
Alien abduction.
Andy Christman
Materials Science & Engineering
Sophomore
Deviled eggs.
October 28, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/forum  A7
Healthcare site needed delayed launch
BRADEN KELNER
Since its launch on Oct. 1, 
the Affordable Care Act website, 
healthcare.gov, has been plagued 
with privacy and functionality issues. Users have found it frustrating 
or impossible to log in. Ben Simo, 
former president of the Association 
for Software Testing, found that the 
website sometimes sends sensitive 
information without encryption, 
and its email veri?cation system can 
be bypassed, he said in an interview 
with TIME magazine. The contractors hired to build the website testi?ed to the House Energy and Commerce Committee on Thursday that 
the Federal government did not give 
them enough time to test the site.
It is important for citizens to have 
ample time to sign up for health insurance; under the Affordable Care 
Act, American citizens are required 
to be insured by the start of 2014. 
However, the Federal government 
should have allotted extra time and 
put forth more effort to work out 
these issues, even if it meant delaying the websites launch.
According to a Gallup poll conducted Oct. 1820, 50 percent of the 
general public disapproves of the Affordable Care Act while 45 percent 
approves of it. Meanwhile, a staggering 86 percent of Republicans disapprove of the act. With a relatively 
large amount of money being poured 
into the website from taxpayers, 
many of whom may not support the 
Affordable Care Act, the government 
should have been cautious not to roll 
out the website too quickly.
The United States Government 
Accountability Of?ce estimates 
that the Federal government spent 
$394 million to set up the website 
and establish tools through which 
people can complete health insurance exchanges prior to the websites 
launch. Thats a generous budget to 
create a website, especially for a law 
largely opposed by public opinion.
With such a large budget, those 
responsible for the websites launch 
have no excuse for its poor debut. 
The agencies contracted to the website were chosen to develop a convenient tool for U.S. citizens to use 
to purchase insurance at affordable 
rates. The Affordable Care Act is 
meant to be a groundbreaking move 
by the government, and the website 
is a key component, but the website 
is anything but groundbreaking.
Surely those in charge of the website knew that staunch Republicans 
and other critics would jump at the 
opportunity to discredit the Affordable Care Act given the chance. After 
all, they have opposed it vehemently 
since it was signed into law by President Barack Obama in 2010. With 
this knowledge, those charged with 
creating the website should have 
made it a high priority in the overall 
implementation of the act. Instead, 
they placed it on the back burner to 
be tested and supported inadequately. Rather than hire a technology 
company to oversee the project, they 
allowed the Center for Medicare and 
Medicaid services to act as the system integrator for the website.
Now Jeffrey Zients, a White 
House of?cial working on the website, claims that services will run 
smoothly for most Americans by the 
end of November. This lengthy repair time is a clear indication of the 
extent of the websites launch ?aws. 
Of course, the Obama administration would have still received backlash from skeptics if it delayed the 
launch of the website, but a delay 
may have been the administrations 
best move. An administration that 
announces its reasons for delays is 
better than an administration that 
launches ?awed products.
Braden Kelner (bik@) is Forum editor 
for The Tartan.
Apples new method:
Revolution by evolution
JUSTIN YAN
In Steven Spielbergs Minority Report, technology in the year 2054 is 
everywhere. Every inch of glass is an 
LCD screen, watches have been replaced with sensors, and screens can 
be maneuvered by a ?ick of the wrist. 
In the movie, not only is technology 
on the body, but technology is a large 
part of a persons self-de?nition.
Although society has not reached 
this level of technological sophistication, we have breached the bubble of 
wearable technology. Google Glass, 
the Samsung Galaxy Gear smartwatch, and the Pebble smartwatch 
are the most prominent gadgets 
that belong to the ?rst generation of 
wearable technologies.
There are numerous perks that 
come with the integration of new 
technologies in our daily lives and 
movements. Cloud computing operator Rackspace found in a recent 
study that 82 percent of the Americans who have tried wearable technologies believe that the technologies would enhance their lives. There 
is one big downside: the many privacy issues that spring out of the widespread use of wearable technology.
A person could cyberstalk someone across a caf by looking up people who have checked into Starbucks 
recently. Facebook could then take a 
note that the stalker is looking at that 
person. Google could know what the 
stalker is looking at and where the 
stalker is going because the stalker is 
wearing Google Glass; yet the person 
across the caf would not see a thing. 
Rackspace reports that 53 percent of 
Americans who dont wear technology feel that wearable devices raise 
some sort of privacy issue. Only 8 
percent said wearing Google Glass 
would be okay in any situation. The 
scary thing is, we cant see anything 
that occurs on the other side of the 
computer chip. Its easy to see if that 
person across the caf took a picture, 
but its not so simple to see where 
that information is going. Google 
could be taking all of the data stored 
within a phone or web browser. And 
this blindness with which people 
have been using technology isnt recent. Certainly, iPhones and Google 
Glass were not the initial steps into 
the unknown, where the data of consumers could be logged and categorized for various uses by technology 
?rms. The everyday consumer has 
been blind for a long time.
Blindness hasnt exactly hurt consumers, but it has helped some technology giants ?ll buckets of revenue 
through the study of information.
How do they use information to 
increase revenue? Google presents 
a prime example. Steven Levy of 
Wired Magazine wrote an article on 
Googles system of advertisements, 
using the term Googlenomics. This 
term refers to Googles algorithms 
that auction off advertisements for 
individual users based on previous 
searches. The advertisements become customized for users, which is 
useful for Google and users. Google 
gets a ton of money from advertisers 
while users get more relevant ads. 
Levy writes, Selling ads doesnt just 
generate pro?ts, it also generates 
torrents of data about users tastes 
and habits, data that Google then 
sifts and processes in order to predict 
future consumer behavior ... and sell 
more ads. The more traf?c Google 
receives, the more data it analyzes 
and the more advertisements it displays. In a way, Google dehumanizes 
people by monetizing them.
More than ever, data is up for 
grabs for technology companies. After the rise of Googlenomics in 2002, 
Facebook became a huge social network that now connects billions of 
people. Facebook doesnt really need 
an algorithm to sort through user information because the information 
is already available on each persons 
pro?le. Facebook could do so much 
more than Google, and with the rise 
of wearable technology, Facebook 
could develop programs that literally 
shadow people in their daily lives.
Googles rather aged brand of 
revenue generation then points toward a concept that has gathered 
public attention relatively recently: 
big data, or data amounts so large 
that they cannot be processed simply. This is where the new concept of 
wearable technologies blends with 
the old concept of Googlenomics. Big 
data is made possible by the sheer 
volume of people using the Internet 
and the relative cheapness of hardware and software where people can 
store data. A recent article in Foreign 
Affairs magazine points to uses of 
big data, such as reducing the need 
for random sampling in statistics  
sample sizes effectively become everyone who is plugged into a device.
Big data is the child of technological advances, the rise of social networking, and general Internet use.
Where does that leave us? For 
starters, the general idea of privacy 
has changed. We no longer live in a 
world where we cant be part of the 
system. We cant see whos looking 
at our information because its not 
con?ned to our own devices. That 
information is in the cloud or other 
storage services; it is somewhere else 
    probably on one of Googles many 
servers. It is up to us, the users and 
the used, whether the advantages 
of using wearable technology and 
big data outweigh the baggage that 
comes along.
Justin Yan (jky@) is a staffwriter for 
The Tartan.
Wearable devices raise privacy issues 
BRANDON SCHMUCK
Shareholders and critics alike 
have claimed that Apple has lost its 
innovative spirit since the death of 
Steve Jobs. However, based on this 
months product keynote  where 
many products, most notably the 
iPad Air, were revealed  these 
claims are anything but true. While 
Apple has failed to release a new 
product category since the iPad in 
2010, it has done an excellent job 
at improving both the feel and user 
experience of its current products 
 the things that matter most to the 
user.
Apples keynote opened with a 
short clip, featuring a question that 
Apple adheres to closely as it develops products: What do we want 
people to feel? The clip continued 
with the statement design requires 
focus on core emotions, such as 
delight, surprise, love, [and] connection. Throughout the keynote, 
Apple speakers like CEO Tim Cook 
made it clear that the statement 
made during the clip embodied all 
that the company represents.
Those who prematurely predict 
the death of Apple are quick to point 
out that Apple has failed to revolutionize any category of consumer 
products lately. While the company has remained centralized on 
its main product line and has not 
strayed into uncharted device territories, critics cry that they want 
iWatches, iTelevisions, or anything 
that can somehow change their 
iLives.
Despite its lack of recent innovation, Apple has taken part in a different method of change  revolution through evolution. Apple does 
this by taking an existing product, 
such as the iPad, and evolving it until it approaches the limit of perfection. The engineers and designers at 
Apple have been successful because 
they strive for perfection. They are 
not happy until they place a device 
as thin as a razor, yet as powerful as 
a full-scale desktop, into the hands 
of everyday people. The result of 
this discipline is the iPad Air.
While the iPad Air will not revolutionize or create an entirely new 
industry like the original iPad, Apple continues to embrace the vision 
of perfection that Jobs and the team 
sought when they released the ?rst 
iPad. 
By any means, Apple did not incorporate new technology that is 
out of this world into the iPad Air, 
but it put technology together in a 
way that has a similar effect.
Apple stressed that the iPad Air is 
not given justice when people watch 
its informational videos, and that to 
get the complete experience, people 
must have it in their hands.
While the original iPad Mini did 
not have parts that broke industry 
standards, it had a different feel 
than any other handheld device. 
It felt as light as a feather, yet was 
more powerful than tablets many 
times its size  I expect the iPad Air 
experience to be similar.
Apple has succeeded where so 
many tech companies have failed: 
connecting with users. 
Apple spent more time at its 
conference showing how the iPad 
has changed peoples lives through 
simplicity rather than describing every detail of its A7 processor. By all 
means, the A7 processor is a great 
feat of technology, but nonetheless, 
the user does not care. Users only 
care that the device ?ows from application to application, providing 
a simple, seamless, and powerful 
experience.
Because Apple is increasing its 
aptitude of connecting with customers, the claims that the company has 
lost its innovative spirit are simply 
ludicrous. 
Apple has created a line of products with feeling  something that 
few other technology companies 
have the ability to do.
Brandon Schmuck (bschmuck@) is 
a staffwriter for The Tartan.
Apple has created 
a line of products 
with feeling  
something that few 
other technology 
companies have 
the ability to do.
Braden Kelner/Forum Editor

---------------------------------------------------

A8  thetartan.org/sports The Tartan  February 18, 2013

---------------------------------------------------

October 28, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/sports  A9
Robert E. Doherty 
1936  1950Thomas S. Baker
1922  1935
John Christian Warner
1950  1965
H. Guyford Stever
1965  1972
Arthur A. Hamerschlag
1903  1922Richard M. Cyert
1972  1990
Robert Mehrabian
1990  1997Jared L. Cohon
1997  2013
Subra Suresh
2013
JOIN THE CELEBRATION
NOVEMBER 14  15
www.cmu.edu/suresh-inauguration
PRESIDENTIAL HIGHLIGHTS
#CMUsuresh
 Instituted the Carnegie Plan, in which students were taught to apply fundamental knowledge to solve practical problems
 Supported and revitalized faculty to focus their energies on both teaching and research
 Led the establishment of the universitys graduate business school 
 Introduced the first computer to campus, which was housed in the business schools basement
CARL GLAZER
Senior Staffwriter
After a rough 04 start, the 
Pittsburgh Steelers sent the 
city into a state of panic. The 
Steelers were written off and 
previously unimaginable conversations were being held at 
dinner tables and bars. 
Fans thought of trading 
Super Bowl winning quarterback Ben Roethlisberger and 
starting over with a rookie 
from next years quarterbackheavy draft. 
But ever so quietly, the 
Steelers have strung together 
two straight wins, including 
one over their division rivals, 
the Baltimore Ravens. Heading into Week 8, the Steelers 
sit only 2.5 games out of the 
wild card and three games out 
of the division. It is entirely 
possible for Pittsburgh to recover from its terrible start 
and sneak into the playoffs.
The turnaround can be attributed to a few major changes. First, head coach Mike 
Tomlin started to lay down 
the law by banning all games 
such as pool and table tennis 
in the locker room in hopes 
of improving player focus. It 
started as a ban on just players with less than four years 
of experience, but after two 
games under that restriction, 
the team felt the forced divide within the team was unnecessary, and the ban was 
extended team wide.
The start of the Steelers 
winning streak can also be 
connected to the return of 
rookie running back LeVeon 
Bell from a Lisfranc sprain. His 
return in Week 4 helped bolster a piecemeal running back 
core that had been ravaged by 
injury. Veteran running backs 
Isaac Redman, Felix Jones, 
and Jonathan Dwyer tried to 
carry the load after Pittsburgh 
let former workhorse, running back Rashard Mendenhall, leave in free agency. Redman has since been released, 
with Dwyer reduced to backing up Bell and Jones making 
his main contributions on special teams.
The Steelers turnaround 
can become one of the great 
stories of the NFL, but not all 
Pittsburghers actually want 
to see their team do well this 
year. There have been concerns for the past two years 
that the Steelers are too old 
and have too much cap space 
tied up in aging veterans. By 
winning just enough games 
to make a run at the playoffs, 
the Steelers could place themselves with another mid-?rst 
round draft pick, where prospects have lower ceilings.
With a high draft pick, the 
Steelers could get an immediate starter on defense.  Defensive end Jadeveon Clowney 
and linebacker Anthony Barr 
both project to be top ?ve 
talents. Pittsburgh could also 
choose to continue their focus 
on their offensive line with 
three tackles projected to be 
top 10 picks: Jake Matthews, 
Taylor Lewan, and Cyrus 
Kouandjio.
Either way, the Steelers 
are showing signs of life and 
hope for the future with Bell 
as their lead running back. 
Whether the team wins now 
or later just dictates how 
many more chances Roethlisberger and Tomlin get at another Super Bowl together.
SPORTS COMMENTARYSteelers hope to change course
CARL GLAZER
Senior Staffwriter
Last year, the MLB introduced a second wild card team 
to try to keep more teams 
?ghting for postseason glory. 
This puts more teams on an 
equal playing ?eld by needing 
only some luck and skill to go 
from a losing season to wild 
card success. Baseball traditionalists were up in arms over 
the idea that the ?fth-best 
team in either league could 
end in the World Series.
This years World Series 
between the Boston Red Sox 
and St. Louis Cardinals, however, has been the opposite 
of what the MLB had in mind 
when adding the wild card 
spot and has eased the fears 
of traditionalists around the 
country. Each team had the 
best record in their respective leagues. These two teams 
have also been two of the most 
consistent in baseball over the 
past decade.
Since 2004, when these 
two teams last met in the 
World Series that ended Bostons 86-year championship 
drought, the Red Sox have 
won championships in 2007, 
and the Cardinals won in both 
2006 and 2011.
The stories of how these 
two teams made it to the 
World Series are remarkably 
similar. Both feature strong 
pitching, timely hitting, and 
uneven defense. 
The make-up of the pitching staffs is the largest difference between the two teams. 
The Cardinals have been relying on their fantastic staff of 
hard-throwing rookies, most 
of whom started the season 
in the minors or the bullpen. 
Rookie pitchers Michael Wacha and Joe Kelly have been 
amazing in the postseason, 
dealing with increased pressure using the same calm composure of veteran ace Adam 
Wainwright.
On the other hand, the 
Red Sox staff is composed of 
resurging veterans, the most 
surprising of which is former ace pitcher John Lackey. 
After missing the 2012 season because of ulnar collateral ligament reconstruction, 
Lackey ?nished the regular 
season with a 3.52 ERA and 
161 strikeouts, his highest total since his 2007 season with 
the Los Angeles Angels. Before 
his injury, Lackey had severely 
underperformed during his 
tenure with the Red Sox after 
signing a lucrative contract 
following his eight-year stint 
with the Angels.
For both teams, shortstop 
has been the weakest position. 
In Game 1, St. Louis in?elder 
Pete Kozma had two critical 
errors that helped fuel an early 
Red Sox rally that quickly put 
the game out of reach before 
the third inning. He redeemed 
himself in Game 2 with a great 
double play when he entered 
as part of a double switch.
Red Sox shortstop Stephen 
Drew has been solid defensively but has struggled on 
offense. His one hit during 
the World Series came on an 
in?eld pop-up that landed 
squarely between the pitcher 
and catcher. Otherwise, he 
has been completely ineffective at the plate, bringing any 
momentum the Red Sox have 
to a complete stop.
Overall, these two teams 
are very evenly matched. But 
so far, the Cardinals have been 
the sharper team, bouncing 
back from a rough Game 1 and 
capitalizing on some Red Sox 
mental blunders and defensive mistakes to lead the series 
21 after Saturdays Game 3. 
Boston wont go down without 
a ?ght, but ultimately, the Cardinals will take the series in 
seven games.
Tight matchup makes this years World Series dif?cult to predict
Upcoming Schedule
Mens Soccer
Nov. 1
Carnegie Mellon at Case 
Western Reserve, 5 p.m.
Nov. 3
Carnegie Mellon at University of Rochester, 11 a.m.
Womens Soccer
Nov. 1
Carnegie Mellon at Case 
Western Reserve, 7:30 p.m.
Nov. 3
Carnegie Mellon at University of Rochester, 1:30 p.m.
Football
Nov. 2
Washington University in 
St. Louis at Carnegie Mellon, 
12 p.m.
Nov. 9
Carnegie Mellon at University of Chicago, 1 p.m.
Volleyball
Oct. 30
Mount Aloysius College at 
Carnegie Mellon, 7 p.m.
Nov. 2
Allegheny College at Carnegie Mellon, 2 p.m.
Cross Country 
Nov. 2
UAA Championships, 
Schenley Park, 11 a.m.
UAA Sports Standings
Mens Soccer
Univ.Conf.WLT
Emory301041
Rochester301121
CMU311021
Chicago22742
Wash. U.121842
CWRU121644
Brandeis131140
NYU031653
Football
Univ.Conf.WL
Chicago0052
Wash. U0052
CWRU0033
CMU0034
Volleyball
Univ.Conf.WL
Wash. U61225
Chicago61209
Emory52243
NYU43224
CMU43218
CWRU251415
Brandeis16920
Rochester07822
Womens Soccer
Univ.ConfWLT
Wash. U.401310
Emory311131
CMU211822
Chicago2111032
Brandeis121951
NYU022753
Rochester022554
CWRU031871

---------------------------------------------------

A10  thetartan.org/sports The Tartan  October 28, 2013
WILLIAM PARK
Sports Editor
With the University Athletic Association (UAA) Championships coming up on Nov. 
8, the Wid Guisler Invitational 
presented a barometer check 
for the womens volleyball 
team. 
At the weekend tournament held at Juniata College, 
the Tartans won two of their 
three games.
Last Friday, they defeated 
DeSales University 31 and 
won Saturdays 1 p.m. game 
against Johns Hopkins University 32. Their one loss over 
the weekend came when they 
played host school Juniata 
College, ranked No. 11 in the 
nation.
I think they were de?nitely 
beatable, if we had played our 
best, said ?rst-year middle 
blocker Jackie Gibbons.
Gibbons said that the team 
made too many errors, while 
Juniata played a much cleaner 
game. Theyre a very good 
team, so it was still a good 
chance to play them, she 
added.
The Tartans dropped the 
?rst two sets 1925 and 1525, 
before rebounding to take the 
third set 2523. They were unable to carry their momentum 
into the fourth set, however, 
losing the decisive set 1525.
Junior right-side hitter Ali 
Celentano and senior outside hitter Senna Parsa led 
the Tartan attack with 11 and 
10 kills, respectively, against 
Juniata. Senior defensive specialist and libero Ali Nichols 
led the team with 14 digs. 
Celentano also celebrated her 
1,000th career kill over the 
weekend.
Its really exciting because 
shes only a junior and shell 
have next year too, Gibbons 
said. Shes really smart about 
her hits. She sees an opportunity and she goes everywhere 
on the court. 
The Tartans hope that 
Celentanos success will continue through important 
games, including the UAA 
Championships.
Over the next two weeks, 
the Tartans will focus on improving the ?ner details of 
their game.
We need to improve our 
passing a little bit, Gibbons 
said. We need to work on 
keeping a faster game because 
when we play at a faster pace, 
thats when we do our best.
Johns Hopkins (911) was 
successful in slowing down 
the pace and drew out the 
game to ?ve sets, though the 
Tartans could have put them 
away earlier.
They have a chance to 
show their improvements 
before the UAA Championships this Wednesday at 
home against Mount Aloysius 
College at 7 p.m.
After the weekend tournament, the Tartans are now 
218 for the season. Nichols and Celentano were also 
named to the all-tournament 
team.
Volleyball team takes two of three at Wid Guisler Invitational
WILLIAM PARK
Sports Editor
Both the mens and womens swimming and diving 
teams opened their seasons 
with big wins against conference rival Case Western Reserve University.
It was de?nitely the best 
?rst swim meet Ive been in, 
said junior Cole Um.
Of the 32 events held at 
home on Saturday, Carnegie 
Mellon ?nished ?rst in 22. 
The mens team won 178108, 
while the womens team won 
by an even greater margin 
with a ?nal score of 191101.
After ?nishing second in 
the University Athletic Association (UAA) Conference last 
year, the mens side looks to be 
bolstered by several ?rst-years 
this season.
First-years Evan Li and Sivan Mehta teamed up with stalwarts Um and masters student 
Eddie Sears to win the 200-
yard medley. Li also ?nished 
?rst in the 200-yard freestyle 
and 200-yard backstroke.
Evan is really versatile. 
He can swim in a bunch of 
events, Sears said. That 
[versatility] was something 
we didnt have the last couple 
of years.... To have a couple of 
guys you can put in anywhere 
really helps us out.
Another ?rst-year, Brian 
Walsh, found success in the 
butter?y, beating sophomore 
teammate Alexander Dintino 
by just 0.06 seconds in the 
100-yard butter?y and ?nishing second in the 200-yard 
butter?y.
Dintino found better fortune later, ?nishing ?rst in the 
100-yard backstroke. 
Sears and Um, the top performers of the past two seasons, started their seasons on 
strong notes. Sears ?nished 
?rst in the 50-yard freestyle, 
while Um ?nished second in 
both the 100-yard and 200-
yard breaststrokes.
On the womens side, ?rstyear Kimberly Klausing ?nished ?rst in both the 1,000-
yard and 500-yard freestyle.
In general, [the ?rstyears] really stepped up and 
performed their best, said senior Soleil Phan.
First-year Lauren Zemering 
?nished ?rst in the 50-yard 
freestyle and participated in 
Carnegie Mellons winning 
200-yard medley relay team.
Carnegie Mellons top ?nisher in the 100-yard butter?y, 
Gillian Crews, also swam on 
the Tartans second place 200-
yard medley team.
Phan, a standout on the 
womens swimming team for 
the past three years, started 
off her season strong, ?nishing 
second in the 200-yard butter?y and ?rst in the 100-yard 
freestyle.
I know that weve had a 
couple of illnesses so far, but 
overall, the whole team seems 
to be setting their pain aside 
and really focusing on what 
we want to accomplish this 
season, Phan said.
The womens diving squad 
also impressed. First-year Barclay Kaku ?nished ?rst in the 
1-meter diving board, totaling 
226.80 points, while junior 
Winona Li ?nished second 
with 210.08 points.
In the 3-meter dive, Li ?nished ?rst with 240.90 points 
and Kaku second with 211.35 
points.
For the mens diving, 
sophomore Yannos Michailidis ?nished second in both the 
1-meter and 3-meter dive.
With the addition of several 
impressive ?rst-years, both the 
mens and womens swimming 
and diving teams look to make 
deep runs this season.
Our culture of our team 
this year is amazing. We push 
each other every day, and 
thats what makes us all get 
better, Sears said.
Their next challenge 
comes this Saturday at home 
at 11 a.m. against Clarion 
University.
Swimming and diving teams take ?rst meet against Case
Jonathan Leung/Assistant Photo Editor
Top left: Masters student Eddie Sears ?nished ?rst in the 50-yard freestyle. The mens team won defeated Case Western Reserve University 178108. Bottom left: Junior Cole Um placed second in both the 100-yard and 200-
yard breaststrokes. Um and Sears also swam together in the 200-yard medley with ?rst-years Evan Li and Sivan Mehta, ?nishing ?rst. Top right: Sophomore Kira Singhaus ?nished ?rst in the womens 100-yard backstroke and 
second in the 200-yard backstroke. The womens team won 191101. Bottom right: Sophomore Winona Li ?nished ?rst in the womens 3-meter dive and second in the 1-meter. Both teams will hit the pool on Saturday at home 
against Clarion University. 
File photo by Jason Chen/Staff Photographer
First-year Jackie Gibbons (background) ?nished the weekend with 17 
kills, and sophomore Mary Stadelman (foreground) had 14.

---------------------------------------------------

Bat Boy: The Musical
ScotchnSodas latest production 
features blood and laughs  B4
10.28.13 Volume 108, Issue 9
Bat
Need Costume Ideas?
Assemble killer last-minute costumes 
right out of your closet  B6
Lives!Boy 
B4

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
The comics this week will have you screaming 
 with laughter.
7
Dollar movie
Get your scare on with a few Halloween 
favorites from AB Films.
5
The Tartan . Box 119 . UC Suite 103 . Carnegie Mellon University . 5000 Forbes Ave . Pittsburgh, PA 15213 . www.thetartan.org .  2013 The Tartan
PUBLISHER Jennifer Coloma EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Josh Smith
PILLBOX EDITOR Rachel Cohen ASSISTANT PILLBOX EDITOR Joey Peiser 
COMICS EDITOR Kairari Chahal  PHOTO EDITOR Kate Groschner 
COPY MANAGER Evan Kahn COVER Briana Williams
6
45
regulars...
Advice
Help for all those scary situations like 
classroom love and missing roommates. 
3
...diversions
...this week only
Ian Frazier lecture
New Yorker columnist and author Ian Frazier 
shares stories from his world travels.
3
ScotchnSoda
ScotchnSoda presents an enthusiastic 
production of Bat Boy: The Musical. 
4
Album reviews
Reviews of Best Coasts Fade Away and 
Diplos Revolution.
5
Costumes
Dont be the only one whos not dressed up 
this Halloween.
6
Puzzles
If you dont do this weeks puzzles, the puzzles 
ghost will be very upset.
9
Horoscopes
Dont read this weeks horoscopes alone...
BOO!
10
Calendar
Beware...theres a lot going on this week.11

---------------------------------------------------

literature
pillbox 10.28.133
Frazier shares witty readings
The New Yorker columnist transports listeners to Siberia
When an evening with a writer begins with a short 
piece on the perils of campfire cooking and has the 
audience in stitches within minutes, its sure to be a 
good lecture.
Author, humorist, and traveler Ian Frazier came to 
the Carnegie Lecture Hall in Oakland on Monday 
as a part of the Ten Literary Evenings series. As the 
name suggests, the series  funded in part by the 
Heinz Foundation  brings 10 prominent writers to 
lecture on their works and their worlds.
Frazier, a contributor to The New Yorker, has penned 
several books in addition to many years worth of 
columns for the magazine. His most recent book is 
titled The Cursing Mommys Book of Days and gives 
an unorthodox look at modern motherhood.
Despite being technically on tour for the book, 
Frazier declined to read aloud from it for the 
audience, charmingly saying the profanity was 
too uncomfortable to read aloud. Instead, he 
read short excerpts from his essays, talked about 
his upbringing and travels, and lamented about 
parenthood.
Frazier grew up in Hudson, a small town in Ohio, 
where he says the eternal boredom of childhood in a 
tiny American suburb was the best way to grow up. 
He poetically described the small town as a center of 
centrifugal force, spinning kids around the nucleus 
until they gained enough inspiration to spin off and 
do something great with their lives. He also talked 
extensively about his amorous relationship with  of 
all places  Siberia and how that love resulted in a 
book called Travels in Siberia.
Fraziers whimsical attitude and witty interjections 
provided the perfect occasion for his anecdotes 
about traveling in Russia. Calling Russia the 
greatest horrible place in the world, Frazier 
described the differences between its society and 
ours, told stories of the people he met, and painted 
beautiful scenic pictures for the audience.
He described his attachment to the country, saying, 
Everyone belongs to one country, but theres always 
another country that is yours. For me, its Russia. 
Frazier will be returning to Siberia in a week  
though he never expected to  to participate in a 
cultural conference.
Frazier wrapped up the evening by switching gears 
and focusing on parenthood, making a connection 
to the themes of The Cursing Mommy. He read 
a piece called Laws Regarding Food and Drink; 
Household Principles: Lamentations of a Father, a 
parody on the Book of Lamentations found in Jewish 
and Christian scripture. The piece described the 
rules of the dinner table and general standards of 
kid behavior, and its cheeky yet exhausted tone 
was recognizable to anyone who had ever yelled at 
children or been yelled at themselves.
Hilarious and entertaining, Fraziers lecture made for 
an enjoyable evening. Though his stories had little 
rhyme or reason, the audience was no less engaged.
Laura Scherb | Personnel Manager
Courtesy of Wikimedia Commons
Advice for awkward people
Dear Matt & Ryan,
Im an adjunct professor 
with an odd impulse to 
play matchmaker with 
two seniors. Im pretty 
certain they dont know 
each other  so we are 
talking a blind set-up.
Is this urge to meddle 
trouble? Is this about 
them or me? Have I 
watched too many John 
Hughes movies? Id like to 
stay within the perimeters 
of my teaching role, but 
I also have a really good 
feeling about these two 
kids...
Yours Sincerely,
Senior-Helping Adviser, 
Decides Couple Hopeful, 
Arrangement Necessary
Dear SHADCHAN,
The number-one thing to 
remember when playing 
matchmaker is to not back 
down. Teachers have 
something like a sixth sense 
for this. Meddling can be 
tricky, but if you feel your 
relationship with both of 
these students is friendly 
enough that they wont 
mind, and might even be 
excited at the opportunity, 
go for it. Were in college, 
and teacher-student 
relationships tend to be 
less constricted than in high 
school. And this is Carnegie 
Mellon, after all; sometimes 
an extra push at the right 
time is helpful. Go for it, and 
hope they go for it too.
We dont think well be 
able to sleep if we dont 
feel this little talk has 
helped you. So would you 
be a sport and lie to us?
Ryan & Matt
Dear Ryan & Matt,
My best friend, whom I 
am lucky enough to have 
as a roommate, recently 
broke his wrist. A couple 
kids made fun of him 
by giving him fruit and 
otherwise messing with 
him. Until recently, he 
had shrugged it off, but 
I woke up one morning 
and realized he wasnt at 
home! I never bothered to 
ask for his phone number 
since we live together, 
and spend all day, every 
day, doing the same 
thing, but if you or any of 
your readers know where 
Franklin is, could you 
send him home?
Thanks,
Strongly a-Tizzy About 
This Uncertain Experience
Dear STATUE,
We here at Advice for 
Awkward People know the 
worry these circumstances 
can cause, but we cant ?le 
a missing persons report 
until 72 hours after the 
individual has gone missing. 
Its possible he just got tired 
of the living arrangement. 
Ask yourself if there was 
something in the roommate 
relationship that wasnt 
working out. Did you want to 
be close to campus, when 
Franklin wanted to live closer 
to the nightlife? Was there 
a big life decision in either 
or both of your lives? Many 
college students arent ready 
for a marriage proposal.
Dont fret,
Matt & Ryan
Need advice? Send queries 
to advice@thetartan.org.
About matchmaking and missing friends
Author Ian Frazier is currently on tour for his most 
recent book, The Cursing Mommys Book of Days, 
which describes parenthood in profane detail. 

---------------------------------------------------

4theater
pillbox 10.28.13
Bat Boy: The Musical can be summed up in one word: 
insane.
Thats not to say it isnt a great musical. ScotchnSodas 
newest production is insane in all the right ways. Its a 
show that combines death, twisted love, and existential 
suffering with a cheerful, dimple-on-the-cheek kind of 
humor. The dialogue is hilarious, the story dances in 
logical leaps, and the body count is high: Six characters 
and several animals are killed on stage by the end of the 
show.
Bat Boy is the story of the titular Bat Boy, a strange, 
deformed boy discovered in a West Virginian mine. 
Bat Boy is taken in by a veterinarians wife, christened 
Edgar, and taught to be a part of civilization. However, 
the town blames him for the deaths of several cows and 
hates him for his strageness and hideous appearance. 
Bat Boy longs for acceptance, but he has a dark secret he 
feels he cannot reconcile with the civilized world.
Though the premise for Bat Boy sounds absolutely 
ridiculous, ScotchnSoda does a fantastic job of giving 
it a sense of depth and realism. The student directors, 
senior psychology and decision science double major 
Corinne Rockoff and senior math major William Veer, left 
a note in the program: In this production, we took the 
dark, heavy, and gory portions of the script and brought 
them to the forefront. What we hoped to achieve was a 
clearer and more poignant picture of the oppression and 
suppression of an outsider; accented, but not pervaded, 
by funny dialogue.
The musical has a penchant for taking a darker turn at 
the ?ip of a switch. A perfectly happy musical number 
could be in mid-swing when a Gothic timbre suddenly 
rolls in: The lighting turns a deep red, and all goes to hell. 
The audience is kept in intense anticipation, especially 
in the latter part of the show when the plot takes 
unexpected turns.
The cast members of Bat Boy are highly enthusiastic in 
their roles and bring out much of the shows humor and 
energy.
The lead performances were especially strong: 
Throughout the insane action of the story, they managed 
to ground their characters as real, sympathetic people. 
Senior decision science major John Oravec, who 
portrayed Bat Boy/Edgar, brings out the characters 
desperate suffering. Undeclared senior CFA student 
James Alexander excels in his role as Dr. Parker  a 
pathetic, unloved man who ultimately turns to villainy. 
Also stellar is sophomore vocal performance major 
Sophia Emanuel as Dr. Parkers wife, Meredith, who is 
very troubled as the only person trying to do the right 
thing in a cruel, unforgiving world.
As for the music, Bat Boy has a number of highly 
enjoyable songs. The musical makes distinctive use 
of electric guitar, which gives the show a darker edge. 
Dance With Me Darling is at ?rst a soft, romantic tango 
that becomes more sinister as the song progresses. 
Show You a Thing or Two is a clever little song that 
serves as a bright and cheery segue into the darker 
portions of the show. A Joyful Noise, a blast of gospel 
music, was one of the most energetic songs in the 
show and had the audience clapping to the rhythm. In 
Children, Children, the pagan god Pan shows up to 
deliver a rowdy serenade on love and sensuality.
However, the show shines brightest at its most macabre. 
In Apology to a Cow, Edgar, previously established as 
educated and well dressed, comes onto the scene with 
his chest and face smeared in blood, and eulogizes his 
lost humanity over a decapitated cows head. It is raw, 
uncompromising, and unforgettable.
After the Saturday night show, many audience members 
gave highly positive reviews of the production.
I think the directors choices in casting were perfect, 
especially James and Sophia, said senior chemical 
engineering major Deanna Bucci. Bucci also praised the 
excellent music direction of the production.
The show was great. The special effects and blood were 
great. Bat Boy is very different from most musicals. I 
hadnt known about the show before and havent seen 
anything like this ... but I really enjoyed it. I thought the 
performances for Bat Boy and Meredith were spot on, 
remarked senior economics and statistics major Emily 
Wright.
There was a lot of social commentary. The Bat Boy was 
really great himself, and the mother. The music direction 
was particularly fantastic, said sophomore cognitive 
science major Sam Cheyette.
As for the message of Bat Boy, it focuses on the 
con?ict between mans dual natures, human versus 
beast, and the dif?culty of being a social outsider. The 
remaining social commentary plays second ?ddle to the 
bizarre spectacle of the show. The ?rst few bars of the 
introduction say there is a lesson to be learned, but what 
lesson is that exactly? Society is cruel? Love blinds? 
Dont raise cows on mountains?
The unclear message aside, Bat Boy is endlessly 
entertaining. Its a ridiculous story mixed with gruesome 
tragedy, which makes a perfect combination for 
Halloween.
Xiyu Wang | Staffwriter
Briana Williams | Junior Photographer
The cast of ScotchnSodas Bat Boy: The Musical sings 
to a horrified yet fascinated audience.
ScotchnSoda goes wild with Bat Boy
Student musical production is gruesome, bizarre, and endlessly entertaining

---------------------------------------------------

music
pillbox 10.28.135
Short albums give musical food for thought
Best Coast steps outside the box, while Diplo produces uninspiring new release
When it comes to papers, English teachers like to say its 
not the length, but the content, that matters.
The same can be said of a music album. Most artists 
sweat it out in the studio to produce a full-length LP of 
at least 10 songs, but sometimes they call it a day at ?ve 
or six. While these shorter albums dont often make the 
same splash as the longer ones, they hold together just 
as well. Here are two recent examples.
Best Coast  Fade Away
Released last Monday, the latest mini-album by 50s 
and 60s surf rock-inspired alternative duo Best Coast 
shows a band that has grown tremendously in the three 
years since its debut album, Crazy For You. That being 
said, Fade Away is also hindered by songwriter Bethany 
Cosentinos tendency to fall back on old formulas and 
in?uences.
Fade Away contains Best Coasts most sophisticated and 
ambitious songwriting yet. Instead of the usual simple 
songs about unrequited boy love and unconditional 
affection for California, Cosentino is writing and 
singing from a much deeper and more bitter place. 
While Cosentino has de?nitely matured as a writer, she 
occasionally tries to make her old tricks work harder than 
they can. Most of the songs are around four minutes 
long, but because of her simple, poppy themes, not all 
Cosentinos songs can support the extended length. 
Who Have I Become? takes what could be a tight three 
minutes and extends it to nearly ?ve.
For Fade Away, Best Coast found the comfortable middle 
ground between the lo-?, fuzzy-pink feel of Crazy For 
You and the studio shine of the bands second album, 
The Only Place. The production is atmospheric, opening 
up the songs and allowing them to breathe. This kind of 
studio trickery is best evidenced by Baby Im Crying, 
whose vocals ?oat gently over soft acoustic and pedalsteel guitars.
The albums highlights occur at perfect blends of all the 
bands previous work. The closer, I Dont Know How, 
begins as a slow, sad waltz before exploding into what 
can only be described as Stevie Nicks singing for the 
Ramones. Meanwhile, This Lonely Morning sounds like 
the mature older sister of the title track on Crazy For You.
Fade Away may have its missteps, but these missteps 
prove that Best Coast is ?nally stepping outside its 
comfort zone. Besides, theres no doubt that after a 
listen, the melodies will bounce around your head and 
slip out of your mouth all day long. If this album signi?es 
anything, its that we should all hotly anticipate what the 
band cooks up in the studio for next spring.
Diplo  Revolution
Superstar DJ and music producer Diplo is nothing if 
not a workaholic. This year alone he racked up a list of 
collaborations, remixes, and releases that would make 
the average performer feel like a couch potato. That 
being said, Diplo doesnt match this quantity with 
consistent quality. His latest solo EP, Revolution, seems it 
was released just to be released. Diplo put little thought 
and effort into the albums four songs; the last two are 
remixes of album tracks by outside producers TWRK and 
Boaz van de Beatz.
Right off the bat, its clear that Diplos recent fascination 
with booty hasnt waned. Album opener Biggie 
Bounce picks up where last years Express Yourself 
and this years Bubble Butt left off, with Travis Porter 
stringing together words that rhyme without much 
attention paid to coherent thoughts. While Diplos work 
usually matches this standard in terms of substance, 
he makes up for it with dynamite production. Express 
Yourself is a song about twerking, but has enough 
twists and turns to make up for it. On that track, Diplo 
clearly put time and effort into crafting something that 
sounded new and interesting. This time around, it seems 
hes perfectly content to put just enough into the song 
that it plays for three minutes and includes a command 
for all the ladies to bend over.
The big problem with the album is just how formulaic 
and forgettable much of it feels; the long list of 
collaborators seems to exist only to ?ll space. Mike 
Posners vocals on Crown seem to only bide time 
until the mediocre drop. Rock Steady features rappers 
Action Bronson, Mr. MFN eXquire, and RiFF RAFF, 
and is the albums standout track for all the wrong 
reasons. Uninspired sirens and whistles blare over a 
beat that ferries its unskilled passengers over the songs 
three-and-a-half minutes. Why Diplo ever decided to 
sign RiFF RAFF to his label, Mad Decent, is beyond all 
comprehension. He must owe someone money.
While Revolution probably wont go down as Diplos 
highest creative peak, the man shouldnt be written 
off. He is, after all, the mind behind the Clash-sampling 
Paper Planes by M.I.A, a nearly undisputed modern 
classic. Following the 2011 departure of DJ Switch, he 
is also now the main creative force behind Major Lazer, 
a project that has birthed great tunes such as Pon de 
Floor (later sampled by Beyonce for Run the World 
(Girls)), Original Don, and the mellow Get Free.
Diplo remains one of the most sought-after producers 
in music today, mainly because of his reputation for 
catching on to the next big thing. Lets just hope the 
next big thing he ?nds is a bit less gluteal. 
Joey Peiser | Assistant Pillbox Editor
Andie Park | Staffwriter
For those who want an old-school scare on Halloween, 
The Conjuring is the perfect ?lm, adept in style and 
suspense. The ?lm works off the true story of reallife paranormal investigators Ed and Lorraine Warren 
(played by Carnegie Mellon alumnus Patrick Wilson 
and Vera Farmiga, respectively). One of the best 
horror movies in recent years, The Conjuring uses the 
playbook for traditional scares from classic horror ?lms, 
but creates moments of fear that are entirely original. 
Fun fact: These investigators famous hauntings were 
so horri?c that they reportedly inspired The Amityville 
Horror. Now thats a scary Halloween story.
The Conjuring
Thursday, Oct. 31    7, 9:30, 11:59 
Friday, Nov. 1         11:59
Scary Movie
Friday, Nov. 1   8, 10
While its no Paranormal Activity, Scary Movie is the 
?rst of a hilarious horror comedy franchise that provides 
goofs and laughs during a spooky season. Starting out 
jokingly like most horror ?lms, Scary Movie follows a 
group of dumb teenagers who clumsily try to escape a 
serial killer called Ghostface after receiving a threatening 
phone call. Scary Movie parodies the heck out of classic 
slasher ?lms such as Scream and I Know What You 
Did Last Summer. Meanwhile, it is inventively funny and 
enjoyable for those who would rather just laugh and skip 
out on the scares this Halloween.
World War Z
Saturday, Nov. 2   7, 9:30, 11:59
You know whats a great combination? Brad Pitt playing 
a guy named Gerry  if you can believe it  and 
zombies. In this heart-stopping action ?lm, Gerry is a 
retired UN of?cer recruited to save the world in the midst 
of a zombie apocalypse. Gerry must travel around the 
world to investigate the apocalypses origins, and singlehandedly ?nd a cure. World War Z provides a fresh and 
thrilling rush of action and has enough brains to keep the 
momentum going throughout the globetrotting plot. Brad 
Pitt also looks especially good when saving a world of 
less-than-lovely-looking zombies.
dollarmovieMcConomy Auditorium, University Center

---------------------------------------------------

6halloween
pillbox 10.28.13
Find last-minute Halloween inspiration
Dr. House, Bat-Fleck, and Walken to the Sky are among this years costume possibilities
 Kate Groschner | Photo Editor
Digging through your closet for last-minute Halloween 
garb can be a daunting process. What kind of costume 
can you make out of totally mundane items? Check out 
this list for a few inventive, punny, and very last-minute 
ideas.
1. Dr. House
Dig through your closet and find your favorite graphic 
tee and blazer combination. Then grab a cane, an empty 
pill bottle, and some tic-tacs (using real Vicodin is not 
recommended). The key to this costume is to periodically 
consume the Tic Tacs and wager on other peoples lives 
 or simply stand around and scowl severely.
2. Superman
This simple option just requires stenciling an S and 
finding your best impromptu cape. Underwear outside 
clothing is optional.
3. Little Red Riding Hood
For this quick costume, grab a red-hooded robe, black 
clothing, and a basket full of cookies. A wolf mask begs 
the question, Did the wolf eat Little Red? Or did Little 
Red kill the wolf?
4. Bat-Fleck
You can be the hero Halloween deserves by donning a 
cowl and black cape as Batman. Embrace the newest 
portrayal of the Dark Knight by adding a dash of Boston 
pride to the mix.
5. Walken to the Sky
Combine one of Hollywoods most distinctive actors with 
campuss most unique art installation in one terrible, terrible pun. All you need is a blue shirt, cotton pads from 
Entropy+ to make your clouds, paper and markers for the 
sun, a picture of Christopher Walken from your printing 
queue, and some tape.
Brent Heard | Staffwriter
541
23

---------------------------------------------------

comics
pillbox 10.28.137
Kiltie As Charged by Charlie Shulman and Kairavi Chahal
cshulman@andrew.cmu.edu
Where Are You From? by Doghouse Diaries
doghousediaries@gmail.comthedoghousediaries.com

---------------------------------------------------

8comics
pillbox 10.28.13
Hark, A Vagrant by Kate Beaton
kathrynmoira@gmail.comharkavagrant.com
Piled Higher and Deeper by Jorge Cham
jorge@phdcomics.comphdcomics.com

---------------------------------------------------

puzzles
pillbox 10.28.139
Solutions from Oct. 14
CrosswordHard DifficultyMedium Difficulty
Kakuro Puzzle: Very Hard Difficulty Sudoku Puzzle: Easy Difficulty
Sudoku courtesy of
www.opensky.ca/~jdhildeb/software/sudokugen/Kakuro courtesy of www.KrazyDad.com
Fill all empty squares using numbers 1 to 9 so the sum of 
each row equals the clue on its left, and the sum of each 
column equals the clue above it. No number may be used 
in the same row or column more than once.

---------------------------------------------------

10horoscopes
pillbox 10.28.13
1. Wild guess
2. Corker
3. Get an ___ effort
4. Trinket
5. Preoccupied with
6. Negative vote
7. Treaters words
8. Drive away
9. Eltons john
10. Underwear
11. Et ____ (and other men)
12. Resting place
13. Scraps
19. Get wind of
21. Bits of thread
25. Fungal infection
27. Dallas player, briefly
28. Anatomical cavity
29. Eye-related
30. Gauchos rope
31. Young male horses
33. Newsman Newman
34. Sierra ___
35. Country bumpkin
38. Nostrils
41. Persevering
43. Cause to abandon the Mets
46. Put down, in slang
48. Agitate
51. Opposed
53. Actually existing
55. Alert
57. Knot in wood
58. Architect Saarinen
59. Breakfast brand
61. Its blown among the reeds
63. Prolonged unconsciousness
64. Some digits
65. Keep it, to an editor
67. Vietnamese New Year
68. Chat room chuckle
1. Thick slice
5. ___ about (approximately)
9. Grassy plain
14. Porous limestone
15. Cause of ruin
16. Former Houston footballer
17. Baseball family name
18. Composer who writes 
symphonies
20. Babble
22. Extra-wide shoe size
23. Skedaddles
24. Catalog
26. Like some excuses
28. Used in courts of law
32. Seldom
36. Poetically ajar
37. Mortise insert
39. Home movie medium
40. RR stops
42. Postpone
44. Return of the Jedi critter
45. Located
47. Gillette razors
49. Having four sharps
50. Former French colony of North 
America
52. Lookout
54. Annapolis inst.
56. Pelt
57. Ship stabilizer
60. Tango need
62. Builds
66. Capable of being negotiated
69. Chimney residue
70. Bicker
71. Its over your head
72. Hooks helper
73. Fowl pole
74. Hard to hold
75. Compass direction
ACROSSDOWN
Horror-scopes
aries
march 21april 19
You have been going through this semester like a zombie 
 its time to snap out of it and start living again.
taurus
april 20may 20
There may be a demonic presence in your life. Go see your 
local pastor for a speedy exorcism.
gemini
may 21june 21
Stay away from deserted hotels and axes.
cancer
june 22july 22
Nothing can quench your thirst except for the blood of your 
enemies.
leo
july 23aug. 22 
Dont forget to cover up your warts and hide your broom  
people arent as accepting of witches as they used to be.
virgo
aug. 23sept. 22
Make sure your bandages arent trailing behind you; 
someone might step on one.
libra
sept. 23oct. 22
Remember to drink your wolfsbane potion or things might 
get out of control.
scorpio
oct. 23nov. 21
Ogres are like onions  you leave em out in the sun, they 
get all brown, start sproutin little white hairs...
sagittarius
nov. 22dec. 21
Dont walk through the park alone or you might get chased 
by a headless ghost on a horse.
capricorn
dec. 22jan. 19
You dont remember taking those pictures on your phone, 
but they seem familiar...
aquarius
jan. 20feb. 18
The mastermind behind the crime never gets his hands 
dirty.
pisces
feb. 19march 20
Your friends may seem to be ghosts, but what if youre the 
ghost?
Kairavi Chahal | Comics Editor
Crossword courtesy of BestCrosswords.com

---------------------------------------------------

calendar 
pillbox 10.28.1311
MONDAY10.28.13
Lecture: Food and Justice for All. Porter Hall 100. 
4:30 p.m.
LaDonna Redmond, food justice activist and founder of 
the Campaign for Food Justice Now, will speak as part 
of the Carnegie Mellon Distinguished Lecture Series in 
Environmental Science, Technology, and Policy.
School of Architecture Lecture Series. 
Kresge Theatre. 6:30 p.m.
The School of Architecture presents Vishaan Chakrabarti, 
a partner at major international architecture and urban 
development ?rm SHoP Architects. Chakrabarti also 
teaches urban real estate at Columbia University and 
directs the Center for Urban Real Estate.
TUESDAY10.29.13
Heinz Negotiation Academy for Women Public 
Preview. Posner Hall 322, 324. 8 a.m.
Program leaders will preview the Heinz Negotiation 
Academy for Women, a semester-long program to teach 
rising women leaders critical negotiation skills.
Stephen Catanzarite and Night of the Living Dead  
The Opera. Baker Hall 260. 4:30 p.m.
Carnegie Mellon creative writing graduate Stephen 
Catanzarite (DC 90) will discuss good writing in 
connection with Night of the Living Dead  The Opera, 
which will premiere this weekend at Pittsburghs Kelly 
Strayhorn Theater. Catanzarite wrote the libretto, and 
the production involves many other Carnegie Mellon 
graduates.
WEDNESDAY10.30.13
CAS Lecture: Performance Art and Censorship. 
Porter Hall 100. 4:30 p.m.
Lisa Freeman, associate professor of English at the 
University of Illinois at Chicago, will give a talk entitled 
Adjudicating Bodies in Public in NEA v. Finley, detailing 
a 1990 controversy concerning four performance artists 
whose National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) grants 
were revoked.
Lucius feat. Alpenglow. The Underground. 4 p.m.
The Brooklyn-based indie-pop quintet will perform in the 
Underground. Named a band to watch by Rolling Stone 
magazine, Lucius has appeared at South by Southwest 
and the Three Rivers Festival in Pittsburgh. The groups 
most recent album, Wildewoman, was released on Oct. 
15.
FRIDAY11.1.13
The Chalk Line. Attack Theatre! (2425 Liberty Ave.). 
8 p.m.
This performance event sponsored by the Arts Pass 
Program merges chalk with dance and tests the 
boundaries between audience and performer. For tickets 
and more information, visit attacktheatre.com. The event 
will also take place Saturday at 8 p.m.
SATURDAY11.2.13
First Annual Hip-Hop Night. UC Kirr Commons. 9 p.m.
Student rappers Mars Johnson, Kai Roberts, DCeption, 
and Chris Mitchell, and beatboxers Mihir Yerande, Luigi 
Connatti, Tim Brooks, and Ethan Crystal will perform as 
part of this Late Night event. The night will also feature 
student DJs, graf?ti artists, and student dance group 
Soulstylz.
ONGOING
14th International Exhibition of Botanical Art 
& Illustration. Hunt Institute for Botanical 
Documentation (Hunt Library, Fifth Floor). 
Through Dec. 19. 
The exhibition will include 41 pieces of artwork by 41 
artists from 10 countries. The Institute established the 
International series in 1964 with the hope of supporting 
and encouraging contemporary botanical artists. Every 
three years, the International series features the works of 
talented botanical artists from around the world.
Yasumasa Morimura: Theater of the Self. The Andy 
Warhol Museum. Through Jan. 12.
In this retrospective exhibit presented by the Andy Warhol 
Museum, Japanese artist Yasumasa Morimura plays with 
images of well-known cultural icons, placing his own face 
over portraits of ?gures like Marilyn Monroe and Mao 
Zedong. For more information, visit warhol.org.
Alien She. Miller Gallery (Purnell Center for the Arts). 
Through Feb. 16.
This exhibit examines the in?uence of Riot Grrrl, an 
underground feminist punk rock movement that surfaced 
in the 90s, on artists and cultural producers today. For 
more information, visit millergallery.cfa.cmu.edu.
Compiled by Rachel Cohen | Pillbox Editor
Want your event here?
Email calendar@thetartan.org.

---------------------------------------------------

12gallery
pillbox 10.28.13
Jason Chen | Staff Photographer
AB Coffeehouse presented its annual Halloween show with English 
electronic music duo Mount Kimbie on Friday in Rangos Hall. Also 
featured were members of Pittsburgh music collective DETOUR, DJs 
Gusto and Naeem. The show was open to the public and free for 
Carnegie Mellon students and faculty.
concert.
